THE 




gy T«e flUTflOR GF 

CUU OF THE CHAFING PISH 



mm 



ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 
TX 635.S34 
The greedy book, a sastronornic^^^^^^^^ 




3 1924 001 787 625 




The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001787625 



THE GREEDY BOOK 



" How admirable and beautiful are eating and 
drinking, and what a great invention the human 
digestive system is ! How much better to be a 
man than an alligator ! The alligator can fast for 
a year and a half, whereas five hours' abstinence 
will set an edge on the most pampered human 
appetite. Nature has advanced a little since 
Mesozoic times. I feel certain that there are 
whole South Seas of discovery yet to be made in 
the art and science of eating and drinking." 

John Davidson 




LES SENS ; PAR Bektall 



[FronLispiece 



THE 

GREEDY BOOK 

A GASTRONOMICAL ANTHOLOGY 

BY 

FRANK SCHLOESSER 

author of 
"the cult of the chafing dish" 




LONDON 

GAY AND BIRD 

12 & 13 HENRIETTA STREET, STRAND 
1906 

tAU rights resernjed 



To 
THE IDEAL WAITER 



They also serve who only stand and wait 

Milton's Sonnet " On his Blindness ' 



CONTENTS 



I. 


Cooks and Cookery 


I 


II. 


Byways of Gastronomy 


20 


III. 


The Poet in the Kitchen 


+1 


IV. 


The Salad in Literature 


62 


V. 


Mrs. Glasse and her Hare 


81 


VI. 


Menus 


I IZ 


VII. 


Oysters 


166 


VIII. 


Waiters and Snails 


189 


IX. 


Dishes of History 


220 


X. 


Lenten Fare 


242 



LIST OF PLATES 

Les Sens 

Les Aliments 

Les Audiences d'un Gourmand 

Les R^ves d'un Gourmand 

Des Magens Vertheidigung der edlen Austern 

Les Boissons 



Frontispiece 


To face 


page 30 


99 


89 


9) 


135 


ern „ 


178 


j» 


194 



My thanks are due to the Editors of the 
Si. Jameses Gazette, the Evening Standard, the 
Academy, the Bally Mall, the Dally Express, 
the Globe, the Tribune, and Vanity Fair for 
permission to reproduce certain portions of 
these papers. 




COOKS AND COOKERY 



" In short the world is but a Ragou, or a large 
dish of Varieties, prepared by inevitable Fate 
to treat and regale Death with." 

' Miscellanies : or a Variety of Notion and Thought." 
By H. W. (Gent.) [Henry Waring] 1708. 



The only thing that can be said against 
eating is that it takes away one's appetite. 
True, there is a French proverb to the 
contrary, but that really only applies to the 
hors d'osuvre and the soup. We all eat 
three meals a day, some four, and a few 
even five, if one may reckon afternoon tea 
as a meal. Yet the art of eating — that is 
to say, how to eat, what to eat, and when 



2 THE GREEDY BOOK 

to eat it— is studiously neglected by those 
who deem they have souls superior to the 
daily stoking of the human engine. 

Whosoever simply wants to eat certainly 
does not require to know how to cook. But 
whosoever desires to criticize a dinner and 
the dishes that compose it — and enjoyment 
without judgment is unsatisfactory — need 
not be a cook, but must understand what 
cooking implies ; he must have grasped the 
spirit of the art of cookery. 

Cooks themselves almost always judge a 
dinner too partially, and from the wrong 
point of view ; they are, almost without 
exception, obstinately of the opinion that 
everything they cook must taste equally 
good to everybody. This is obviously 
absurd (but so like a cook), for allowance 
must be made for the personal equation. 
Nothing tastes so good as what one eats 
oneself, so it is not to be expected that one 
and the same dish will please even the most 
fastidious octette. Still there have been 
occasional instances. 

The late Sir Henry Thompson once had 
a new cook, and, in an interview with her 



COOKS AND COOKERY 3 

after the first dinner-party, she expressed 
"herself as being delighted that everything 
had been so satisfactory. " But how do 
you know it was ? " asked Sir Henry. 
" I've not given you my opinion yet." 
"No, Sir Henry," said the cook, "but I 
know it was all right, because none of the 
salt-cellars were touched." 

It is a mistaken idea that a man-cook can 
be a cordon-bleu. That title of high distinc- 
tion is reserved for the feminine sex. Ac- 
cording to Lady Morgan (Sidney Owenson, 
1 841), in her "Book without a Name," a 
cordon-bleu is defined as an honorary distinc- 
tion conferred on the first class of female 
cooks in Paris, either in allusion to their 
blue aprons, or to the order whose blue 
ribbon was so long considered as the 
adequate recompense of all the highest 
merit in the highest classes. 

The Fermier G6n6ral who built the 
palace of the Elys6e became not more 
celebrated for his exquisite dinners than for 
the moral courage with which he attributed 
their excellence to his female cook, Marie, 
when such a chef was hardly known in 



4 THE GREEDY BOOK 

a French kitchen ; for when Marie served 
up un petit diner dilirant she was called for 
like other ■prime donne, and her health drunk 
by the style of Le Cordon Bleu. 

One of the most famous of the bearers 
of the title was undoubtedly that wonderful 
Sophie who is so charmingly described in 
La Salle-h-manger du Docteur Veron. She 
was cook and politician too, and even 
Alexandre Dumas pfere did not disdain to 
dine with her at a dinner of her own 
cooking ; and moreover eminent statesmen 
of the period consulted her about politics, 
her clear-headed simplicity and wide ex- 
perience of popular sentiment rendering 
her opinions of considerable value. The 
editor adds that her name was not Sophie, 
but that her many friends will nevertheless 
easily recognize her. 

The value of a good chef in a well- 
ordered household cannot be over-estimated. 
His tact, his experience, and his art go far 
to make life pleasant and easy. Moreover, 
a good cook is a direct aid to good health, 
for he uses none but the best materials, 
and, if he be of the highest rank of his 



COOKS AND COOKERY 5 

order, knows just how to assimilate those 
suave and subtle suggestions and flavourings 
which go so far to make cookery such as 
the great Careme (1828) called le genre mdle 
et eligant. Cooks were held in the highest 
estimation in Venice in the sixteenth 
century. Here is the beginning of a letter 
from one AUessandr'o Vacchi, a Venetian 
citizen, to an acquaintance of his, a cook 
and carver by profession : " Al magnifico 
Sigtior Padron mto osservandissimo il Signor 
Matteo Barbiniy Cuoco e Scalco celeberrimo 
della citta di Venetia" In our own time 
honour to the profession is not lacking, 
for a little while ago the King decorated 
M. Menager, his mattre-chef, with the 
Royal Victorian Medal. 

At the same time the competition of 
many rich folk for the services of some of 
the best-known chefs has made these artists, 
in some cases at least, place an extortionate 
value upon their ministrations. A very 
clever chef, reliable in everything except 
his sauces, in which he is slightly heterodox, 
was recently engaged by a nouveau riche at a 
salary far exceeding that which he paid to 
his private secretary. 



6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

In one of Matthew Bramble's letters from 
Bath ("Humphry Clinker") he refers to such 
a one as " a mushroom of opulence, who 
pays a cook seventy guineas a week for 
furnishing hirn with one meal a day." 
Mushroom of opulence is good. That 
species of fungus is always with us. Dr. 
Kitchiner in his " Housekeeper's Oracle " 
(1829) quotes from "The Plebeian Polished, 
or Rules for Persons who have unaccount- 
ably plunged themselves into Wealth." A 
work of this nature, if published nowadays, 
should surely command a large sale, for the 
number of people who have " unaccount- 
ably plunged themselves into Wealth " 
seems to be multiplying rapidly. Most of 
them know how to feed. Few of them 
seem to have mastered the mystery of how 
to dine. " Man ist wass man isst " says the 
German proverb, and there is no valid 
reason for spending fabulous sums on a 
dinner of out-of-the-season delicacies, when 
the good reasonable and seasonable things 
of this earth are ready and ripe for con- 
sumption. 

At the same time, meanness has nothing 



COOKS AND COOKERY 7 

to recommend it. There is no credit in 
starving yourself or your guests. The 
difference between mere parsimony and 
economy has never been more deftly illus- 
trated than in those pregnant sentences 
from Edmund Burke : " Mere parsimony 
is not economy. Expense, and great ex- 
pense, may be an essential article in home 
economy. Economy is a distributive virtue, 
and consists, not in saving, but selection. 
Parsimony requires no providence, no sa- 
gacity, no powers of combination, no com- 
parison, no judgment. Mere instinct, and 
that not an instinct of the noblest kind, 
may produce this false economy in per- 
fection." 

This is very solid wisdom, because it 
bears in mind the great element of perspec- 
tive in expense, which is so often forgotten 
or overlooked. 

To revert to the preciousness and rarity 
of the really good female cook, to the artist 
in pots and pans. It was in 1833 that the 
Prince de Ligne, who had just lost his 
second wife, came to Paris to seek conso- 
lation. He lived temporarily in the Rue 



8 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Richelieu. One evening in passing the 
lodge he became aware of a peculiarly al- 
luring odour of cooking. He saw the 
concierge, an old woman of sixty, bending 
eagerly over a battered stewpan on a small 
charcoal fire, stirring some mess which evi*- 
dently was exhaling this delicious odour. 
The Prince was one of the affable kind. 
He asked the poor old lady for a taste of 
her dish, which he liked so much that he 
gave her a double louis, and asked her how 
it happened that with such eminent culinary 
genius she was reduced to the porter's lodge. 
She told him that she had once been head 
cook to a cardinal -archbishop. She had 
married a bad man who had spent all her 
savings. Although very poor, she added 
with conscious pride, and no longer dispos- 
ing of the full batterie of an archiepiscopal 
kitchen, she flattered herself she could 
manage with a few bits of charcoal and a 
mkhante casserole to cook with the best of 
them. Next day the lodge was vacant, the 
old concierge being on her way to Belceil, 
the Prince de Ligne's residence, near Mons, 
in Belgium, where she presided for fifteen 



COOKS AND COOKERY 9 

years over one of the best - appointed 
kitchens in the world. 

Less fortunate than the Prince de Ligne 
was a middle-aged bachelor in Paris, a few 
years ago, who gave away an odd lottery 
ticket to his cook, a worthy and unpre- 
possessing spinster. Shortly afterwards, to 
his amazement, he saw that this particular 
ticket had drawn the gros lot. He could 
not afford to part with such a valuable and 
valued servant, so he proposed marriage, 
was accepted, and duly became one with his 
cook before the maire with as little delay 
as possible. Directly after the marriage he 
asked his wife for the lottery ticket. "Oh, 
I gave that away," she said, "to Jean, the 
coachman, to compensate him for our 
broken engagement." 

It has been the ambition of many highly 
placed men to become cooks. According 
to Miss Hill's interesting book on Juniper 
Hall, and its colony of refugees, M. de 
Jaucourt is recorded to have said : " It 
seems to me that I have something of a 
vocation for cookery. I will take up that 
business. Do you know what our cook 



lo THE GREEDY BOOK 

said to me this morning ? He had been 
consulting me respecting his risking the 
danger of a return to France. ' But you 
know, monsieur,' he said, 'an exception is 
made in favour of all artists.' 'Very well 
then,' concluded M. de Jaucourt, ' / will 
be an artist-cook also. 

A notable instance of the chef who took 
a pride in his art and could not understand 
any one referring to him as " a mere cook " 
is the delightful hero of Mr. H. G. Wells's 
story of "A Misunderstood Artist" in his 
" Select Conversations with an Uncle." 
" They are always trying to pull me to 
earth. ' Is it wholesome ? ' they say ; 
— ' Nutritious ? ' I say to them : ' I do 
not know. 1 am an artist. I do not care. 
It is beautiful.' — ' You rhyme ? ' said the 
Poet. ' No. My work is — more plastic. 
I cook. ' " 

There was a famous cook too, Laurens 
by name, who was chef for a long time to 
George III, and who combined with his 
culinary skill a wonderful _/?««> for objects of 
art, so that the King bought a large number 
of the beautiful things which are even now 



COOKS AND COOKERY ii 

at Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle 
on the advice of this same Laurens. It 
has been said of him that he rarely made 
a mistake in buying, and that he attended 
the principal picture and art sales on the 
Continent on behalf of his royal master. 

Some cheerful noodles have had much to 
say anent the want of imagination of the 
modern chef. This is the most arrant 
blatherumskite. The chef, who is only, 
after all, a superior servant, paid (and well, 
too) to carry out the gastronomic ideas of 
his master, or, if he lack such ideas, to 
pander to his ignorance, too frequently 
arrogates to himself a culinary wisdom 
which is not justified by results. The chef 
need only be a thoroughly good cook. The 
ideas, -the suggestions, the genius behind 
the pots and pans, come from the gas- 
tronomic student. Neither Brillat-Savarin 
nor Grimod de la Reyniere was a cook — 
nor was Thomas Walker, G. A. Sala, or 
E. S. Dallas, but they were all notable 
authorities. And they inspired the culinary 
art of their times by their knowledge, 
invention, and discrimination. 



12 THE GREEDY BOOK 

As a matter of fact, our chefs are un- 
imaginative — and a good job too ; because 
when a chef, be he never so clever, begins 
to launch out on novelties of his own in- 
vention, he almost invariably comes to 
grief. A really good maitre d'Mtel may 
occasionally suggest a new dish, but in 
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred it is 
merely a slight variation of something 
perfectly well known and appreciated. 
There may be a new garnishing, a trifling 
alteration in the manner of serving, and 
there is invariably a brand-new (and usually 
inappropriate) name, but the dish remains 
practically the same, despite its new christen- 
ing-robe. 

A fine joint of Southdown mutton has 
been recently renamed Bihague, but it 
remains sheep, and nothing is gained by the 
alteration save a further insight into the 
ignorance of the average chef. This is 
only a simple example, but it might be 
multiplied indefinitely. I have been served 
at a well-known restaurant with cutlets a la 
Trianon^ which turned out to be our old 
and tried friend cutlets a la Reforme under 



COOKS AND COOKERY 13 

a new title. In a like manner, but at 
another restaurant, an ordinary and excellent 
mousse de jambon paraded as jambon h la 
Vefour; Heavens and the chef only know 
why ; and the one won't tell, and the other 
doesn't know. 

BShague, by the way, is, so to say, chefs' 
French, which has much in common with 
dog Latin, if one may be allowed the 
comparison. Bihague will not be found in 
a French dictionary, but it is the new mm 
de cuisine for fine-quality mutton (such as 
Southdown) ; it has only lately come into 
use, and there seems no particular reason 
for it. Probably it was invented in "a 
moment of enthusiasm," as the barber- 
artist remarked when he made a wig that 
just fitted a hazel-nut. 

There are several different kinds of bad 
language. That used by chefs and maHtres 
d^hdtel on their menus is one of the worst. 
They are incorrigibly ignorant — and glory in 
it. It is an undeniable fact that the average 
menu, whether at a club or restaurant, 
contains usually at least a brace of ortho- 
graphic howlers, while at the private house, 



14 THE GREEDY BOOK 

an it boast a chef who writes the dinner 
programmes, the average is distinctly higher. 
I have encountered on an otherwise quite 
reputable card the extraordinary item 
Souffiet de fromage. The kind hostess had 
no intention of inflicting a box on the ears 
to the cheese, but had mistaken souffiet for 
souffle. By such obvious errors are social 
friendships imperilled. 

But I should like to go much further than 
this comparatively harmless example. No 
less an authority than ^neas Dallas in 
Kettner's " Book of the Table " says : " It 
is a simple fact, of which I undertake to 
produce overwhelming evidence, that the 
language of the kitchen is a language * not 
understanded of the people.' There are 
scores upon scores of its terms in daily use 
which are little understood and not at all 
fixed, and there is not upon the face of this 
earth an occupation which is carried on 
with so much of unintelligible jargon and 
chattering of apes as that of preparing food. 
Not only cooks, but also the most learned 
men in France have given up a great part 
of the language of the kitchen as beyond 



COOKS AND COOKERY 15 

all comprehension. We sorely want Cadmus 
amongst the cooks. All the world re- 
members that he taught the Greeks their 
alphabet. It is well-nigh forgotten that he 
was cook to the King of Sidon. I cannot 
help thinking that cooks would do well to 
combine with their cookery, like Cadmus, a 
little attention to the alphabet." 

It is easy, of course, to ridicule such 
obvious ineptitudes as a dish of " breeches 
in the Royal fashion with velvet sauce " 
{Culotte a la Royale sauce veloute) or "capons' 
wings in the sun" {ailes de poularde au soleW), 
but these are but trifling offences compared 
to the egregious lapses of grammar, history, 
and good taste which disfigure our menus. 
There is no culinary merit in describing an 
otherwise harmless dish of salmon as saumon 
Liberti au Triomphe d' Amour. It is simply 
gross and vulgar affectation. Let the cooks 
do their cooking properly and all will be 
well. Their weirdly esoteric naming of 
edible food is an insult of supererogation to 
the intelligence of the diner. 

At the same time, due credit must be 
given to the chef for the part he has played 



i6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

in the general improvement of gastronomies 
and the art of feeding during the past 
two decades. The mere multiplication of 
restaurants is nothing ; but the general 
improvement of the average menu is every- 
thing. Here, for instance, is the menu of 
a dinner of the year 1876, recommended by 
no less an authority than the late Fin Bee, 
Blanchard Jerrold, whose Epicure's Year 
Books, Cupboard Papers, and Book of 
Menus are by way of being classics. 

MENU. 

Crecy aux CroAtons. 

Printannier. 

Saumon bouilli, sauce homard. 

Filets de soles a la Joinville. 

Whitebait. 

Supreme de Volaille a I'ecarlate. 

C6telettes d'Agneau aux concombres. 

Cailles en aspic. 

Selle de Mouton. 

Bacon and beans. 

Caneton. 
Baba au Rhum. 
Pouding glace. 

This was the dinner given by the late 



COOKS AND COOKERY 17 

Edmund Yates on the occasion of the publi- 
cation of the World newspaper. Observe 
its heaviness, clumsiness, and want of 
delicacy. Three fish dishes are ostenta- 
tious and redundant ; three entries simply 
kill one another ; the quails are misplaced 
before the saddle ; the bagon and beans is, 
of course, a joke. Altogether it is what we 
should call to-day a somewhat barbarian 
meal. Contrast therewith the following 
artistically fashioned programme of a dinner 
given by the Reunion des Gastronomes ; it 
is practically k dernier mot of the culinary 

art. 

MENU. 

Huitres Royales Natives. 

Tortue Claire.- 

Filets de Soles des Gastronomes. 

Supreme de Poularde Trianon. 

Noisettes d'Agneaxi a la Car^me. 

Pommes Nouvelles Suzette. 

Sorbets a la Palerrnitaine. 

Becassines a la Broche. 

Salade. 

Haricots Verts Nouveaux a la Cr^me. 

Biscuit Glace Mireille. 

Corbeille de Friandises. 

Dessert. 



1 8 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Nothing could be lighter or more graceful. 
There is naught that is over-elaborate or 
indigestible ; on the contrary, the various 
flavours are carefully preserved, and there 
is a subtle completeness about the whole 
dinner which is very pleasing. 

It was the late lamented Joseph, of the 
Tour d' Argent, the Savoy, and elsewhere, 
who once said : " Make the good things as 
plain as possible. God gave a special 
flavour to everything. Respect it. Do not 
destroy it by messing." 

Joseph, who, by the way, was born in 
Birmingham, was a m&itre d'hbtel of genius, 
though even he had his little weaknesses, 
and merely to watch the play of his wrists 
whilst he was " fatiguing " a salad for an 
especially favoured guest was a lesson in 
inspired enthusiasm. His rebuke to a rich 
American in Paris is historic. The man of 
dollars had ordered an elaborate dSjeuner, 
and whilst toying with the hors-d' csuvre 
carefully tucked his serviette into his collar 
and spread it over his waistcoat, as is the 
way with some careless feeders. Joseph, 
rightly enough, resented this want of 



COOKS AND COOKERY 



19 



manners, and, approaching the guest, said 
to him politely, "Monsieur, I understand, 
wished to have dijeuner^ not to be shaved." 
The restaurant lost that American's custom, 
but gained that of a host of nice and 
delicate feeders. 




CHAPTER II ^"^^^ 

BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 



" La Cuisine n'est pas un metier, c'est un art, et 
c'est toujours une bonne fortune que la conversa- 
tion d'un cuisinier : tnieux vaut causer avec un 
cuisinier qu'avec un pharmacien. S'il n'y avait 
que de bons cuisiniers, les pharmaciens auraient 
peu de cliDses a faire, les medecins disparait- 
raient ; on ne garderait que les chirugiens pour 
les fractures." — Nestor Roqueplan. 

I AM going to be very rude. Not one 
woman in a hundred can order a dinner at 
a restaurant. I've tried them, and I know. 
Not only can she not order a dinner with 
taste, discretion, and due appreciation of 
season, surroundings, and occasion ; but she 
inevitably shows her character, or want of 
it, if she be allowed to choose the menu. 
The eternal feminine peeps out in the soup, 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 21 

lurks designedly in the entries, and cqmes 
into the full glare of the electric light in the 
sweets and liqueurs. 

Let me explain. As a bachelor who is 
lucky enough to be asked out to many 
dinner parties, I have cultivated a slight 
reciprocative hospitality in the shape of ask- 
ing my hostesses (and their daughters, if 
they have any) to dine with me at sundry 
restaurants. It is my habit to beg my guests 
to order the dinner, " because a woman 
knows so much more about these things 
than a mere man" ; and all unwittingly 
the dear ladies invariably fall into the inno- 
cent little trap, wrinkle up their foreheads 
and study the carte, while I sit tight and 
study character. 

Luckily my digestion is excellent. I have 
survived several seasons of this sort or 
thing, but I feel that the time is coming 
when I must really give it up and order 
the dinners myself. 

The wife of a very important lawyer was 
good enough to dine with me at the Savoy 
recently. She is, I believe, a thoroughly 
good wife and mother, and, moreover, she 



22 THE GREEDY BOOK 

has a happy knack of humorous small talk. 
She graciously agreed to order our dinner — 
after the usual formula. The crime santi 
was all right — homely and healthy, if a 
trifle dull and uninteresting ; but when 
we went on to boiled sole, mutton cutlets, 
and a rice pudding, I felt that the sweet 
simplicity of the Jane Austen cuisine was 
too much with us, and I recognized sadly 
that she was not imbued with the spirit 
of place ; she mistook the Savoy for the 
schoolroom. Her forte was evidently de- 
corous domesticity. Nevertheless, I had a 
good dinner. 

Less fortunate was 1 in my experience 
with the eldest daughter of a celebrated 
painter. She was all for colour. "There 
is not enough colour in our drab London 
life," she said ; so, at the Carlton, she 
ordered Bortsch, because it was so pretty 
and pink ; fish a la Cardinal, because 
of the tomatoes ; cutlets a la R6forme, 
because she liked the many-coloured " baby- 
ribbons" of garnishing ; spinach and poached 
eggs — *' the contrast of colour is so daring, 
yoU: know " ; beetroot salad ; a peach a la 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 23 

Melba — " so artistic and musical " ; and, of 
course, cr^me de menthe to accompany the 
coffee. It was a feast — of colour — and the 
food was thoroughly well cooked ; but I 
was reminded of Thackeray's chef, M. 
Mirabolant, who conceived a white dinner 
for Blanche Amory to typify her virginal 
soul. 

Then there was an amiable and affected 
widow, whose mitigated woe and black 
voile frock were most becoming. She pre- 
sumed, however, on her widowhood to order 
everything en demi-deuily which meant that 
every dish from fish to bird was decorated 
with mourning bands of truffles. The 
thoughtful chef sent up the ice in the form 
of a headstone, and we refrained from 
Turkish coffee because French cafl noir was 
so much blacker. 

The great Brillat-Savarin, speaking of 
female gourmets, said, "They are plump 
and pretty rather than handsome, with a 
tendency to embonpoint." I confess that 
my experience leads me to disagree ; the 
real female gourmet (alas, that she should 
be so rare !), broad-minded, unprejudiced, 



24 THE GREEDY BOOK 

and knowledgeable, is handsome rather than 
pretty, thin rather than stout, and silent 
rather than talkative. This, however, by 
the way. 

Two schoolgirls did me the honour of 
dining with me at Prince's not long ago, 
before going to the play. I gave them 
carte blanche to order what they liked, and 
this was the extraordinary result : — 

Langouste en aspic. 

Meringues Chantilly. 

Consomme a la neige de Florence. 

Selle de Chevreuil. 

Gelee Macedoine. 

Faisan en plumage. 

Bombe en surprise. 

Nid de Pommes Dauphine. 

I ventured to suggest that there was a 
certain amount of fine confused feeding 
about this programme, that it was so heavy 
^hat even two hungry schoolgirls and a 
middle-aged bachelor might find it difficult 
to tackle, also that the sequence of dishes 
was not quite conventional. Eventually 
they blushingly explained that they had 
ordered all these things because they did 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 25 

not know what any of them meant, and 
they wanted to find out — " besides, they've 
got such pretty names, and it will help us 
so much in our French lessons." I reduced 
the formidable dimensions of the dinner, 
and there were no disastrous results. 

I once had the temerity to invite a real 
lady journalist to dine with me at the 
Berkeley, I think that she writes as Aunt 
Sophonlsba, or something of the sort, and 
her speciahty is the soothing of fluttering 
hearts and the explaining of the niceties of 
suburban etiquette. Anyhow, she knows 
nothing about cookery, although I under- 
stand she conducts a weekly column entitled 
" Dainty Dishes for Delicate Digestions." 
It was in July, and she said we might begin 
with oysters and then have a partridge. 
When I explained that owing to official 
carelessness these cates happened to be out 
of season, she waxed indignant and said 
that she thought "they were what the 
French call primeurs." Nevertheless, she 
made a remarkably good hot-weather dinner, 
eating right through the menu, from the 
melon refrakhie to the petits fours. Women 



26 THE GREEDY BOOK 

who golf, lady journalists, and widows, I 
observe, have usually remarkably good 
appetites. 

I recollect also an American actress who 
sang coon songs — and yearned for culture. 
We lunched at the Cecil, and when she 
espied on the card eggs a la Meyerbeer, she 
instantly demanded them because " he was 
a composer way back about the year dot, 
and I just love his music to ' Carmen.' " 
She hunted through the menu for cele- 
brated names, preferably historical, and 
ordered successively Sole a la Colbert, Poulet 
Henri Quaire, and Nesselrode pudding, 
because they reminded her of the time 
when she was studying French history. 

With the keenest desire not to be thought 
disrespectful or ungallant, I really believe 
that, however well a woman may manage 
her household, her cook, her husband, and 
her kitchen expenses, she cannot order a 
dinner at a restaurant. Whether it be the 
plethora of choice, or the excitement of the 
lights and music, or awe of the maitre 
d'Mtel and the sommelier, I do not know, 
but I am sure that the good hostess who 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 27 

gives you a very eatable little dinner at 
her own house will make hash of the best 
restaurant carte du jour in her endeavours 
to order what she thinks is nice and appro- 
priate. 

In referring just now to the excellent 
Miss Jane Austen, I am reminded that 
eating and drinking play no small part in 
her delightful novels. Who does not re- 
member Mrs. Bennet, who dared not invite 
Bingley to an important dinner, "for al- 
though she always kept a good table, she 
did not think anything less than two courses 
could be good enough for a man on whom 
she had such anxious designs, or satisfy the 
appetite and pride of one who had ten 
thousand a year." The dinner eventually 
served consisted of soup, venison, partridges, 
and an unnamed pudding. And a very 
good meal too ! 

An American critic is of opinion that 
there is a surfeit of mutton in English 
literature. " It is boiled mutton usually, 
too." Now boiled mutton is, to the critic, 
a poor sort of dish, unsuggestive, boldly 
and flagrantly nourishing, a most British 



28 THE GREEDY BOOK 

thing, which " will never gain a foothold on 
the American stomach." This last is a vile 
phrase, even for an American critic, and 
suggests a wrestling match. The critic goes 
on : " The Austenite must e'en eat it. Roast 
mutton is a different thing. You might 
know Emma Woodhouse would have roast 
mutton rather than boiled ; it is to roast 
mutton and rice pudding that the little 
Kneightleys go scampering home through 
the wintry weather." 

From Miss Austen to Mrs. Gaskell is no 
such very far cry. " We had pudding 
before meat in my day," says Mr. Holbrook, 
the old-fashioned bachelor-yeoman in "Cran- 
ford." " When I was a young man we used 
to keep strictly to my father's rule : ' No 
broth, no ball ; no ball, no beef.' We 
always began dinner with both, then came 
the suet puddings boiled in the broth with 
the beef; and then the meat itself. If we 
did not sup our broth, we had no ball, 
which we liked a deal better, and the beef 
came last of all. Now folks begin with 
sweet things, and turn their dinners topsy- 
turvy.". 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 29 

What would such a one have said to our 
modern dinners, at home, or at a restaurant ; 
a place which he probably would not com- 
prehend at all, for, at any rate with us, the 
fashion of dining in public, especially with 
our women-folk, is a very recent innovation. 
The hearty individual of Mr. Holbrook's 
time and type would have more sympathy 
with the frugalities of the La Manchan 
gentleman Cervantes drew, with his lean 
horse and running greyhound, courageous 
ferret, and meals of " duelos y quebrantes," 
tliat strange dish, which Mr. Cunninghame 
Graham tells us " perplexed every translator 
of the immortal work." 

The modern restaurant is, I suppose, part 
and parcel of the evolutionary trend of the 
times. It has its advantages and its draw- 
backs. Its influence on public manners or 
manners In public (which are not altogether 
the same thing), are not entirely salutary. 
He was a wise person who once said, 
" Vulgarity, after all, is only the behaviour 
of others." Go into any frequented restaur- 
ant at dinner-time, watch the men and 
women (especially the latter), how they eat. 



30 THE GREEDY BOOK 

talk, and observe their neighbours — et vous 
m'en direz des nouvelles ! Our forbears, 
although, or perhaps because, they dined 
out less, or not at all, had a certain reticence 
of table manner which has been lost in 
succeeding generations. Be good enough 
to note the reception of a party of guests 
entering a full restaurant and making their 
way to their reserved table. Notice how 
every feminine eye criticizes the new-comers. 
Not a bow, nor a frill, nor a sleeve, nor a 
jewel, nor a twist of chiffon is unobserved. 
Talk almost ceases whilst the progress 
through the already filled tables takes place. 
The men of the party ask polite questions, 
and endeavour to continue the even tenor 
of the conversation, but the feminine replies 
are vague and malapropos. No woman 
seems able to concentrate her attention on 
talk whilst other women are passing. She 
must act the critic ; note, observe, copy, or 
deride. These are our table manners of to- 
day. Not entirely pretty, perhaps ; but 
typical and noteworthy. 

The multiplication of restaurants con- 
tinues, and yet, come to think of it, the 



■•-c^oa' 



"^i 



f^ 









i^'^r^y^ 



ir 




LES ALIMENTS : far Bertal 



[To fact page 30 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 31 

actual places where one lunches, dines, or 
sups, the " legitimate " houses, so to say, 
can be numbered on the fingers of both 
hands — including the thumbs. All the 
others are more or less esoteric. One can, 
possibly, dine as well in Soho as in the 
Strand, but there is no cachet about the 
dinner, and one never meets any one one 
knows, or if one does, one wishes one 
hadn't. 

Still, compared with our grandfathers' 
times, things have vastly altered. In the 
" Epicure's Almanack or Calendar of Good 
Living for 181 5," there is a list of over one 
hundred eating-houses of sorts, but the only 
ones that survive to this day are Birch's of 
Cornhill ; the " Blue Posts " in Cork Street ; 
the " Cheshire Cheese," Fleet Street ; the 
"Golden Cross," Charing Cross ; Gunter's of 
Berkeley Square ; Hatchett's in Piccadilly ; 
the "Hummums " in Covent Garden ; Long's 
in Bond Street (better known as " Jubber's") ; 
the " Ship," Charing Cross ; the London 
Tavern ; and " Sweeting's Rents." 

Speaking of the music at a very well- 
known restaurant in town, a morning paper 



32 THE GREEDY BOOK 

said recently: " It is noticeable that many of 
the visitors occasionally stop talking and 
listen to the music." This set me thinking, 
It is worth while listening to good music. 
Bad music we are better without. Good 
cooking and good conversation are natural 
concomitants, and mutually assist one 
another. Ergo, it seems obvious that good 
music and a good dinner are incompatible. 
It is rude to talk whilst musical artists are 
giving of their best for your delectation, 
and, at the same time, a dinner partaking of 
Wordsworth's Peter Bell's party in a parlour 
" all silent and all damned " is contrary to the 
best gastronomic traditions. Thus I think 
I have the musical diner in an impasse. 

Speaking from memory, among the best 
dozen restaurants in London there is music 
in every one save three ; I am therefore 
bound to conclude that it is merely a 
question of supply and demand, and that I 
am in a minority. I overheard a quaint 
protest the other night at a restaurant where 
the music is .particularly loud, blatant, and 
objectionable. A man and, presumably, 
his wife were dining together, and were 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 33 

evidently anxious to keep up their con- 
versation on some mutually interesting 
topic. During a lull in the clatter and noise 
I heard the woman's voice say, " I do wish 
they would play more quietly, one really 
cannot hear what one is eating." 

Oh ! the Roast Beef of Old England, 
And oh ! the old English Roast Beef! 

How many casual diners at the Carlton 
could hum or whistle that fine old air ? 
Probably not one — not even M. Jacques. 
And yet it is about the only really ap- 
propriate and legitimate tune to which 
Britons ought to feed. What dp we get 
instead ? Musical-comedy selections, lan- 
guorous waltzes, cornet solos, coon songs, 
and an occasional czardas. Is music really 
an aid to digestion, or is it designed, like 
the frills on the cutlets, to induce us to 
ignore the imported mutton in favour of 
the trimmings ? 

It is tolerably certain that music with 
dinner (at a restaurant, for the ordinary 
diner) was unknown in England before 
1875. In the previous year the late George 
Augustus Sala, who knew most things worth 



34 THE GREEDY BOOK 

knowing — gastronomically — wrote an article 
in a monthly magazine on dinner music, and 
refers to it as existing only in royal palaces. 
Very soon afterwards, however, it was 
offered to anybody who could afford to pay 
a few shillings for a set dinner amid clean 
and appetizing surroundings. Subject to 
correction, it is fairly certain that the first 
place in London where they provided music 
at dinner was the Holborn Restaurant, 
which had been a swimming-bath, a dancing- 
casino, and other things. The example was 
speedily followed, and very soon bands 
sprang up like mushrooms right and left, at 
every restaurant which made any pretence 
of attracting the multitude. 

The Criterion started glee-singers, al- 
though this was perhaps more directly an 
outcome of Herr Jongmanns' boys' choir 
at Evans' in Covent Garden. 

Nearly every restaurant in London now- 
adays has a band, and go where you will, 
such spectacles are offered you as a man 
with music in his soul trying to take his 
hot soup in jig time, because the band is 
playing prestissimo forsooth, and getting very 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 35 

red in the face whilst so doing. Then will 
follow the whitebait, and the band, just out 



Presiissi-mo, 



of pure cussedness, plays a languishing slow 
movement, whereupon the musical diner is 
obliged to eat his whitebait andante, and the 
dear little fish get quite cold in the process. 

Andante, molto patetico. 



Over in Paris, Berlin, and on the Riviera 
it is even worse. The restaurateurs there 
encourage a wild, fierce race of hirsute 
ruffians called Tsiganes, who are supposed 
to be Hungarian gipsies : " A nation of 
geniuses, you know ; they can't read a note 
of music, and play only by ear ! " That's 
just the trouble of it — because their ears 
are often all wrong. There is absolutely 
nothing less conducive to a good appetite 
than to watch these short-jacketed, be- 
frogged. Simian fiddlers playing away for 
dear life the Rakoczy March or a mal- 
treated Strauss waltz, and ogling a la Rigo 



36 THE GREEDY BOOK 

any foolish female who seems attracted by 
them. It is on record that an Englishman 
once approached the leader of such a band 
in a Paris restaurant and asked him the 
name of the dance he had just been playing. 
" Sure, an' I don't know, yer honour," was 
the reply, "but I'm thinking it's a jig." 
All the Hungarians do not come from 
Hungary. 

Curiously enough, there is an old-time con- 
nexion between music and dinner, although 
not precisely as we understand either. In 
the great houses of the seventeenth century 
dinner was announced by a concert of trum- 
pets and drums, or with blasts from a single 
horn, blown by the head huntsman. The 
music of huntsmen running in upon their 
quarry was the music which declared the 
venison and wild boar ready for the trenchers. 
Blown to announce the coming of dinner 
and supper, the horn was also wound to 
celebrate the virtue of particular dishes. 
The nobler creatures of the chase were 
seldom brought to table without notes from 
the trumpet. Musical honours were accorded 
to the peacock, the swan, the sturgeon, and 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 37 

the turbo t. The French used to say, 
" Cornez le diner," i.e. " Cornet the dinner" 
— hence we derive our corned beef. 

But to return to our own times ; things 
have come to such a pass, musically speak- 
ing, that the suburbanest of suburban ladies 
shopping of an afternoon in Oxford Street 
cannot drink her cup of tea without a band 
in the basement. It is quite humorous to 
listen to a selection from " La Boh6me " 
punctuated by "Ten three-farthings, my 
dear, and cheap at that," or "You must 
really tell Ethel to have a silk foundation " ; 
but women are such thoroughly musical 
beings that they seem to accommodate them- 
selves to all sorts of incongruities. 

The old gourmets, who knew how to 
dine, loved music in its right place and at 
the right time, but that was not at dinner. 
Rossini, the great composer, was one of 
them. He loved good cheer and he wrote 
wonderful music — but he never mixed the 
two. It is passing strange that various ways 
of cooking eggs have been called after 
various composers. Thus we have oeufs a la 
Meyerbeer, a la Rossini, a la Wagner, even 



38 THE GREEDY BOOK 

a la Sullivan. Why music and eggs should 
be thus intimately connected is somewhat of 
a puzzle. 

The late Sir Henry Thompson, who 
married a musician, and the late Joseph of 
the Savoy, who was an artist at heart, 
both despised music at dinner. The former 
said that it retarded rather than assisted 
digestion ; and the latter remarked that he 
could never get his cutlets in tune with the 
band. Either the band was flat and his 
cutlets were sharp, or vice vers^. 

There are a few restaurants in London, 
some half-dozen at most, where one can dine 
in peace, undisturbed by potage a la Leon- 
cavallo, poisson a la Rubinstein, roti a la 
Tschaikowski, and entremet a la Chami- 
nade. But it would be unwise to say where 
they are, because it might attract crowds and 
induce the proprietors to start a band. And, 
after all, a dinner-table is not a concert 
platform. 

In the "Greville Memoirs" (1831) you 
may read that dinners of all fools have as 
good a chance of being agreeable as dinners 
of all clever people : at least the former are 



BYWAYS OF GASTRONOMY 39 

often gay, and the latter are frequently 
heavy. Nonsense and folly gilded over with 
good breeding and les usages du monde pro- 
duce often more agreeable results than a 
collection of rude, awkward, intellectual 
powers. This must be our consolation for 
enjoying " gay " dinners. 

In a translation from Dionysius, through 
Athenaeus, occur these lines : — 

To roast some beef, to carve a joint with neatness. 
To boil up sauces, and to blow the fire. 
Is anybody's task ; he who does this 
Is but a seasoner and broth-maker ; 
A cook is quite another thing. His mind 
Must comprehend all facts and circumstances : 
Where is the place, and what the time of supper ; 
Who are the guests, and who the entertainer ; 
What fish he ought to buy, and where to buy it. 

This shows a nice appreciation of the 
duties of the all-round cook, supervised by 
a knowledgeable master, and is preferable to 
the fastidiousness of Sir Epicure Mammon 
in "The Alchemist," who leaves the best fare, 
such as pheasants, calvered salmon, knots, 
godwits, and lampreys, to his footboy ; 
confining himself to dainties such as cockles 



40 THE GREEDY BOOK 

boiled in silver shells, shrimps swimming 
in butter of dolphin's milk, carp tongues, 
camels' heels, barbels' beards, boiled dormice, 
oiled mushrooms, and the like. One must 
go back to Roman cookery, via Nero and 
others, for such gustatory eccentricities, a 
number of which, one may shrewdly believe, 
were not precisely what they are described 
to be in modern English. Do we not know, 
for instance, that a famous Roman cook 
(who was probably a Greek), having re- 
ceived an order for anchovies when those 
fish were out of season, dexterously imitated 
them out of turnips, colouring, condiments, 
and the inevitable garum ; as to the exact 
and unpleasant constituents of which, 
authorities, including the great Soyer, differ 
considerably. 

The result cannot have been of the nature 
described by Miss Lydia Melford in " Hum- 
phry Clinker," who called the Bristol waters 
" so clear, so pure, so mild, so charmingly 
mawkish." 




" Drinking has indeed been sung, but why, I 
have heard it asked, have we no 'Eating 
Songs'? — for eating is, surely, a fine pleasure. 
Many practise it already, and it is becoming 
more general every day. I speak not of the 
finicking joy of the gourmet, but the joy of 
an honest appetite in ecstasy, the elemental joy 
of absorbing quantities of fresh, simple food — 
mere roast lamb, new potatoes, and peas of 
living green. It is, indeed, an absorbing 
pleasure." R. le Gallienne. 

The quotation with which I have headed 
this chapter, though appropriate enough in 
a sense, disproves itself in the assertion. 
We have " Eating Songs " in plenty, both 
in our own language and in foreign tongues, 
but they have been neglected and spurned, 
and for that reason they well repay a little 
41 



42 THE GREEDY BOOK 

enterprising research. Here and there, 
throughout our literature, are gems of gas- 
tronomical versification, and it is, in fact, 
impossible to do more than indicate a tithe 
of the treasures that may be unearthed with 
a very little trouble and patience. 

Among the anthologies of the future, 
the near future maybe, is undoubtedly the 
Anthology of the Kitchen. It is ready 
written, and only remains to be gathered. 
There is barely a poet of note who could 
not be laid under contribution. Shake- 
speare, Byron, B^ranger, Browning, Burns, 
Coleridge, Crabbe, Dryden, Goethe, Heine, 
Landor, Prior, Moore, Rogers, and Villon 
are the first chance names to occur, but there 
are many more who might be cited with 
equal justice. 

Thackeray wrote verses on Bouillabaisse ; 
which it would be absurd to quote, so well 
are they knowh. M6ry, Alexandre Dumas, 
Th. de Banville, Th. Gautier, and Aur61ien 
Scholl collaborated, under the editorship of 
Charles Monselet (himself a gastronomic 
poet of no mean order), in a little book pub- 
lished in 1859 under the title "La Cuisiniere 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 43 

Po6tique." Five years later there appeared 
in Philadelphia "A Poetical Cook Book," 
by J. M. M., with charming rhymed recipes 
for such things as stewed duck and peas : — 

When duck and bacon in a mass 

You in a stew-pan lay, 
A spoon around the vessel pass, 

And gently stir away ! 

The poetical author dilates too upon 
buckwheat cakes and oatmeal pudding, and 
quotes Dodsley on butter and Barlow on 
hasty pudding. Sydney Smith's recipe for 
a salad is only too well known, and it may 
be hoped that it is not often tried, because 
from a gastronomic point of view it is a dire 
decoction. Arthur Hugh Clough in " Le 
Diner" (Dipsychus) has this entirely charm- 
ing verse : — 

A clear soup with eggs : votlii tout ; of the fish 
"Dixe filets de sole are a moderate dish 

A la Orly, but you're for red mullet you say. 
By the gods of good fare, who can question 
to-day .'' 

How pleasant it is to have money, heigh ho ! 

How pleasant it is to have money ! 

Nearly two hundred years ago (in 1708, 
to be precise) Dr. William King wrote "The 



44 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Art of Cookery," in imitation of Horace's 
" Art of Poetry " ; in the original edition it 
was advertised as being by the author of 
" A Tale of a Tub," but although King was 
a friend of Swift, there seems to have been 
no authority to make use of his name. In 
the second edition, in the following year, 
some letters to Dr. Lister are added, and 
the title page ascribes the poem to " the 
Author of the Journey to London," who 
dedicates it — or, rather, "humbly inscribes" 
it — to "The Honourable Beefsteak Club," 
This edition has an exquisitely engraved 
frontispiece by M. Van der Gucht. 

In the fifth volume of Grimod de la 
Reyni^re's entrancing " Almanach des Gour- 
mands " (1807) there is a poetical epistle 
d'un vrai Gourmand a son ami, r Abbe 
d^Herville, homme extremement sobre, et qui ne 
cessoit de lui precher P abstinence. These are a 
few of his lines : — 

Harpagon dit : II faut manger pour vivre; 

Et je dis, moi, que je vis pour manger. 
Que I'on m'appelle un cochon d'epicure : 

C'est un eloge, et non pas une injure. 

Subsequent volumes contain many poetical 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 45 

references. There is even a hymn to Epi- 
curianism, a fable gourmande et plus morale 
encore, entitled " Les CEufs ; a logogriphe ; 
several chansons ; and a boutade. Mortimer 
Collins, in " The British Birds," has an 
exquisitely humorous tourney of three poets 
who respectively sing the praises of salad ; 
and the late Dr. Kenealy wrote a book (in 
1 845) called " Brallaghan, or the Deipnoso- 
phists," in which he tunes his lyre in praise 
of good food — and Irish whisky. Although 
Sydney Smith's salad mixture is useless, his 
verses entitled "A Receipt to Roast Mutton " 
are excellent, particularly this verse : — 

Gently stir and blow the fire, 
Lay the mutton down to roast, 

Dress it quickly, I desire, 
In the dripping put a toast, 

That I hunger may remove — 

Mutton is the meat I love. 

An anonymous author has given us the 

immortal lines: — 

Turkey boiled 
Is turkey spoiled. 
And turkey roast 
Is turkey lost ; 
But for turkey braised 
The Lord be praised ! 



46 THE GREEDY BOOK 

That they are absolutely true every Feinsch- 
mecker, as the Germans say, is bound to 
admit. The famous Cheshire Cheese 
pudding has not been without its laureate, 
one J. H. Wadsworth, who opens his paean 
thus : — 

We sought " The Cheese " with thirst and hunger 

prest. 
And own we love the Pudding Day the best, 
But no one quarrels with the chops cooked here. 
Or steaks, when wash'd down with old English 

beer ! 

The leg of mutton has not lacked its 
devotees from Thackeray's — 

A plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, 
I prithee get ready at three, 

to Berchoux' praise of the gigot — 

J'aime mieux un tendre gigot 
Qui, sans pomp et sans etalage, 
Se montre avec un entourage 
De laitue ou de haricot. 

Sir John Suckling contributes to the 
poetic garland in his lines: — 

The business of the Kitchen's great 
And it is fit that men should eat, 
Nor was it e'er denied. 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 47 

And an anonymous Scotch poet indites 
the following ode to luncheons : — 

There are the sausages, there are the eggs. 
And there are the chickens with close-fitted legs. 
And there is a bottle of brandy, 
And here some of the best sugar candy, 
Which is better than sugar for coffee. 
There are slices from good ham cut off; he 
Who cut them was but an indifferent carver, 
He wanted the delicate hand of a barber. 
And there is a dish, 

Buttered over ! And fish. 
Trout and char 

Sleeping are, 
The smooth-like surface over. 
There's a pie made of veal, one of widgeons. 
And there's one of ham mixed with pigeons. 

A well-known French critic, Achille (not 
Octave) Uzanne, has compiled a little col- 
lection of menus and receipts in verses, with 
a notable preface by Chatillon-Plessis, which 
includes poems on such thrilling subjects 
as jugged hare, lobster in the American 
fashion, Charlotte of apples, truffles in 
champagne, epigrams of lamb, mousse of 
strawberries, and green peas. A' more recent 
American poetaster has published during the 



48 THE GREEDY BOOK 

last few years " Poems of Good Cheer," 
which are in the manner of fables, such as 
that of the man who " Wanted Pearls with 
his Oysters," and the busy broker "Who 
had no time to eat," and consequently 
acquired dyspepsia. 

Lord Byron too may be allowed to have 
his say: — 

. . . Man is a carnivorous production, 
And must have meals — at least one a day. 
He cannot live, like woodcocks, upon suction ; 
Although his anatomical construction 
Bears vegetables in a grumbling way. 
Your labouring people think, beyond all 

question. 
Beef, veal, and mutton, better for digestion. 

One of the most ambitious efforts in the 
culinary-poetic line is, undoubtedly, " La 
Gastronome, ou I'homme des Champs k 
Table ; pofeme didactique en quatre chants, 
par J. Berchoux, 1804," wherein is set 
forth, at some length — firstly, the history 
of cooking ; then the order of the services ; 
and lastly, some fugitive pieces which 
allude to the gay science in choice and 
poetic terms. The book is enriched with 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 49 

some exquisite copper-plate engravings by 
Gravelotj Cochin, and Monsiau. The lines 
addressed by the author to his contem- 
poraries warning them against the " repas 
monstreux des Grecs et des Romains " are 
full of repressed dignity and good sound 
common sense. One puts down the book 
with a sense of poetical-gastronomical re- 
pletion. 

The poetic afflatus has possessed most 
great cooks, but none with more practical 
application than the immortal Alexis Soyer, 
the hero of the Crimea and the Reform 
Club, who, on the death of his wife, a clever 
amateur artist, wrote this simple and witty 
epitaph, " Soyez tranquille." Gay's poem 
on a knuckle of veal is also worthy of 
record, and an anonymous American poet has 
immortalized the duck in four pregnant 
verses. 

A very modern poet who writes over the 
initials of M. T. P. has four charming verses 
on the propriety of ladies wearing their hats 
whilst dining. The second and third stanzas 
read as follows : — 



50 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Anchovies from Norwegian shores ! 

Sardines from sunny southern seas ! 
There's naught my simple soul adores 

One half so ardently as these. 
And while I munch the well-fumed sprat, 
Sit thou and watch and wear thy hat. 

I need no entree, want no bird, 

Nor care for joints, or boiled or roast. 

But my imagination's stirred 
By titillating things on toast. 

Soft roes the commissariat 

Shall serve me opposite thy hat. 

Some folks who are not yet very old 
may remember a quaint part-song or quar- 
tette for male voices, entitled " Life is but 
a Melancholy Flower," which was sung 
alternately somewhat in this fashion : — 

Life is butter ! 

Melon ! ! 

Cauliflower ! ! ! 

Life is but a melancholy flower ! 

It had much deserved success in its 
day. 

An old recipe for the roasting of a 
swan is very fairly summed up in these 
lines : — 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 51 

TO ROAST A SWAN 

Take three pounds of beef, beat fine in a mortar, 
Put it into the swan — that is, when you've caught 

her. 
Some pepper, salt, mace, some nutmeg, an onion, 
Will heighten the flavour in Gourmand's opinion. 
Then tie it up tight with a small piece of tape. 
That the gravy and other things may not escape. 
A meal paste (rather stiff) should be laid on the 

breast. 
And some " whitey brown " paper should cover the 

rest. 
Fifteen minutes at least ere the swan you take 

down. 
Pull the paste off the bird that the breast may get 

brown. 

THE GRAVY 

To the gravy of beef (good and strong) I opine 
You'll be right if you add half a pint of port wine ; 
Pour this through the swan — yes, quite through 

the belly. 
Then serve the whole up with some hot currant 

jelly. 
N.B.^ — The swan must not be skinned. 

This poem has been attributed to Mr. 
George Keech, chef of the Gloucester 
Hotel at Weymouth — of course a famous 
breeding place for swans. 



52 THE GREEDY BOOK 

The following recipe for making a " soft " 
cheese is said to be by Dr. Jenner : — 

Would you make a soft cheese ? Then I'll tell you 

how. 
Take a gallon of milk quite fresh from the cow ; 
Ere the rennet is added, the dairyman's daughter 
Must throw in a quart of the clearest spring 

water. 
When perfectly curdled, so white and so nice, 
You must take it all out of the dish with a slice. 
And put it 'thout breaking with care in the vat. 
With a cheese-cloth at bottom — be sure to mind 

that. 
This delicate matter take care not to squeeze, 
But fill as the whey passes off by degrees. 
Next day you may turn it, and do not be loth 
To wipe it quite dry with a clean linen cloth. 
This must be done you cannot well doubt. 
As long as you see the whey oozing out. 
The cheese is now finished, and nice it will be, 
If enveloped in leaves of the green ashen tree. 
Or what will do better, at least full as well, 
In nettles just plucked from the bank of the dell. 

In praise of the best food in the world — 
plain British roast and boiled — Mr. G. R. 
Sims has dilated in his weekly columns ; a 
verse from his perfectly correct and strict 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 53 

" Ballade of New-Time Simpson's " is well 
worth quoting : — 

They do not call the saddle " selle " 
That you with currant jelly eat ; 

Boiled fowl's not a la Bechamel. 
Your eyes no foreign phrases meet 
That English waiters can't repeat, 

And so to Simpson's I repair. 

The English kitchen's bad to beat, 

Plain roast and boiled are British fare. 

The " Envoi," which commences most 
cleverly according to traditional rule, runs as 
follows : — 

Prince's and Carlton, you I greet, 
Savoy, I own your chef is rare ; 
But you with Simpson's shall compete. 
Plain roast and boiled are British fare. 

To come back to recipes, here is one for 
the famous Homard a V <^mericaine written 
by the chef of the Grand International 
Hotel at Chicago, who is quite annoyed with 
M. Rostand for his obvious plagiarism in 
" Cyrano de Bergerac." 



54 THE GREEDY BOOK 

COMMENT ON FAIT LE HOMARD A L'AMERICAINE 

Prenez un homard qu'on vend 

Bien vivant ; 
Avant qu'il se carapate 
Sans vous kisser attendrir, 

Sans soufFrir, 
Detachez-lui chaque patte. 

Faites alors revenir 

Et blondir 
Du beurre en la casserole ; 
Fourrez-y votre homard 

Sans retard, 
Mais avant qu'il ne rissole 

Ajoutez un court-bouillon 

De bouillon 
A vous bruler la bedaine ! 
Faites cuire. Servez-le 

Et c'est le 
Homard a I'americaine ! 

Many curious old poems may be found by 
careful delving in the books our great-grand- 
fathers used to read, and which we ought 
to read, but don't. For instance, the Rox- 
borough Ballads contain a delightful poem 
briefly entitled " The Cook-Maid's Garland : 
or the out-of-the-way Devil: shewing how 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 55 

four highwaymen were bit by an ingenious 
cook-maid" (1720). There is a still older 
ballad in the same collection called " The 
Coy Cook-Maid, who was courted simul- 
taneously by Irish, Welch, Spanish, French 
and Dutch, but at last was conquered by 
a poor English Taylor " ; this is in black- 
letter, and is dated 1685. 

A French lady with a happy knack of 
▼erse has written the following rhymed 
recipe for 

SAUCE MAYONNAISE 

Dans un grand bol en porcelaine 
Un jaune d'oeuf etant place, 

Sel et poivre, vinaigre a peine, 
Et le travail est commence. 

On verse I'huile goutte a goutte ; 

La mayonnaise prend du corps, 
Epaississant, sans qu'on s'en doute. 

En flot luisant, jusqu'aux bords. 

Quand vous jugez que I'abondance 

Pent sufEre a votre repas, 
Au frais mettez-la par prudence. . . . 

Tout est fini j n'y touchez pas ! 

Under the title of "Women I have never 
married," O. S. of "Punch" writes delight- 



S6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

fully on the lady who knew too much about 
eating. This is one of his verses : — 

She came. She passed a final word 

Upon the bisque, the Mornay sole, 
The poukt (said she thought the bird 

Shewed at its best en casserole) ; 
She found the parfait " quite first-rate," 

Summed up the chef as " rather handy," 
Knew the Lafitte for '88, 

And twice encored a fine old brandy. 

The following couplets are by — I think — 
an American author. 

Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on. 

In dressing salad mind this law. 

With two hard yolks use one that's raw. 

Roast veal with rich stock gravy serve. 
And pickled mushrooms, too, observe. 

Roast pork, sans, apple sauce, past doubt, 
Is " Hamlet " with the Prince left out. 

Your mutton chops with paper cover 
And make them amber-brown all over. 

Broil lightly your beefsteak. To fry it 
Argues contempt of Christian diet. 

To roast spring chickens is to spoil 'em ; 
Just split 'em down the back and broil 'em. 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 57 

It gives true epicures the vapours 
To see boiled mutton minus capers. 

The cook deserves a hearty cuffing 

Who serves roast fowl with tasteless stuffing. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod — 
A fish, when fresh, to feast a god. 

The Old Beef Steak Society, otherwise 
known as the Sublime Society of Beef Steaks, 
and of which the full history has too often 
appeared in print, entertained the Prince of 
Wales, afterwards George IV, on his elec- 
tion as a member ; the following is a verse 
of a song written in honour of the occasion 
by the poet-laureate to the Society, Captain 
Charles Morris of " Pall Mall " fame :— 

While thus we boast a general creed, 

In honour of our shrine, sir. 
You find the world long since agreed 

That beef was food divine, sir ; 
And British fame still tells afar 

This truth, where'er she wanders. 
For wine, for women, and for war. 

Beefsteaks make Alexanders. 

I venture to think that this little excerpt 
from Lafcadio Hearn's " Kokoro " is worthy 
of record here as a piece of real poetry in 



58 THE GREEDY BOOK 

prose. It is from a story called " The Nun 
of the Temple of Amida." " Once daily, 
at a fixed hour, she would set for the absent 
husband, in his favourite room, little repasts 
faultlessly served on dainty lacquered trays 
— miniature meals such as are offered to the 
ghosts of the ancestors and to the gods. 
(Such a repast offered to the spirit of the 
absent one loved is called a \agi-sen, lit. 
' shadow-tray.') These repasts were served 
at the east side of the room, and his kneeling- 
cushion placed before them. The reason 
they were served at the east side was because 
he had gone east. Before removing the 
food, she always lifted the cover of the little 
soup-bowl to see if there was vapour upon 
its lacquered inside surface. For it is said that 
if there be vapour on the inside of the lid 
covering food so offered, the absent beloved 
is well. But if there be none, he is dead, 
because that is a sign that his soul has re- 
turned by itself to seek nourishment. 
O-Toyo found the lacquer thickly beaded 
with vapour day by day." 

It would be unfair to omit mention of 
Moli^re, who so often and wisely devotes 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 59 

attention to the culinary craft, for which, 
indeed, he had a high appreciation. Did he 
not read his plays to his cook ? A typical 
passage is that from his " Femmes Savantes," 
when Chrysale expatiates to Philaminte and 
Belise. 

Que ma servante manque aux lois de Vaugelas, 
Pourvu qu'a la cuisine elle ne manque pas. 
J'aime bien mieux pour moi qu'en epluchant ses 

herbes, 
Elle accommode mal les noms avec les verbes, 
Et redise cent fois un bas et mechant mot, 
Que de bruler ma viande ou saler trop mon pot. 
Je vis de bonne soupe, et non de beau langage, 
Vaugelas n'apprend point a bien faire un potage ; 
Et Malherbe et Balzac, si savans en beaux mots. 
En cuisine peutetre auraient ete des sots. 

Very few people, I am afraid, read the 
entirely delightful verse of Mortimer 
Collins, poet, journalist, novelist, epicure 
(in the best sense), and country-lover — all in 
one. He was among the nowadays less- 
known masters of gastronomies, a man who, 
although no cook himself, knew by intuition 
and experience just what was right, and if it 
were wrong, just why it was wrong. His 



6o THE GREEDY BOOK 

novels and poems, although very unequal, do 
not deserve to be forgotten, for they contain 
many fine, thoughtful, and beautiful passages. 
His burlesque of Aristophanes, " The British 
Birds," is, in its way, a masterpiece. He 
wrote much and well on cookery and dining, 
both in prose and verse. Here follows one 
of his sonnets from a sequence addressed 
to the months — from a gastronomic point 
of view. 

JUNE 

O perfect period of the sweet birds' tune. 

Of Philomel and Procne, known to fable ; 

Of wayward morns, and never utterable 
Joys of the evenglome, beneath the moon ! 
Cool be thy food, O gourmand, runs the Rune : 

Pigeon and quail are suited to the table ; 

Anchovy and sardine are noticeable ; 
Red mullet, first of fish, is prime in June. 
Richmond and Greenwich tempt the Londoner 

To dine where Thames is cool, and whitebait 
crisp. 

And soft the manners are and lax the morals. 
But I (when twilight's breezes softly stir, 

Rob the rich roses, though the woodbine lisp) 

Dine on my lawn hedged in by limes and laurels. 

The "Minora Carmina" of the late 



THE POET IN THE KITCHEN 6i 

C. C. R., whose verse has much of the charm 
of J. K. S. and C. S. Calverley, contains a 
few verses anent the pleasure of dining out, 
which are headed 

NUNC EST COENANDUM 

Although the season sadly 

May open, in contrast grim 
With those when pleasure madly 

Whirled on the wings of Whim — 
Though sporting members sigh for 

The huntsman, hound, and horn. 
And invalids loud cry for 

Health-spots from which they're torn ; 
Yet e'en to town detested 

Comes comfort in the line — 
" Your presence is requested " — 

You're going out to dine. 

It would be easy to extend this list in- 
definitely, but enough is as good as a feast. 




" I could digest a salad gathered in a church- 
yard as well as in a garden. I wonder not at 
the French with their dishes of frogs, snails, 
and toadstools ; nor at the Jews for locusts and 
grasshoppers ; but being amongst them make 
them my common viands, and I find they agree 
with my stomach as well as theirs." 

Sir Thomas Browne, "Religio Medici." 

We have it on the authority of Chaucer 
that salad is cooling food, for he says : — 

. . . And after that they yede about gadering 
Pleasaunt Salades which they made hem eat, 
For to refresh their great unkindly heat. 

That the eating of green meat is and 

always has been closely bound up with 

healthy human life is a fact which needs no 

demonstration ; but the constantly recurring 

62 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 63 

references to it in the literature of all ages 
would seem to point the moral in so far as 
salads must always have appealed peculiarly 
to those leading a more or less sedentary life. 

In a serious Biblical commentary of the 
eighteenth century, Baron von Vaerst, a 
German savant, refers to Nebuchadnezzar's 
diet of grass as a punishment which did not 
in any way consist in the eating of salad, 
but in the enforced absence of vinegar, oil, 
and salt. That salad adds a zest to life is 
proved by St. Anthony, who said that the 
pious old man, St. Hieronymus, lived to 
the green old age of 105, and during the 
last ninety years of his life existed wholly 
upon bread and water, but " not without a 
certain lusting after salad." This is con- 
firmed by St. Athanasius. 

In Shakespeare's " Henry VI," Jack Cade 
remarks that a salad " is not amiss to cool 
a man's stomach in the hot weather." Cleo- 
patra too refers to her " salad days, when 
she was green in judgment, cool in blood." 
In "Le Quadragesimal Spiritual," a work 
on theology published in Paris in 1521, 
these lines occur : — 



64 THE GREEDY BOOK 

La Salade moult proffitable 
Signe la parolle de Dieu 
Qu'il faut ouyr en chascun lieu. 

Pecheurs, entendez ce notable ! 

All writers agree as to the cooling proper- 
ties of salads, and particularly lettuce, on 
the blood. In his " Acetaria : a Discourse 
of Sallets " (1699), John Evelyn says that 
lettuce, " though by Metaphor call'd Mor- 
tuorum Cibi (to say nothing of Adonis and 
his sad Mistress) by reason of its sopor- 
iferous quality, ever was and still continues 
the principal Foundation of the universal 
Tribe of Sallets, which is to Cool and Re- 
fresh. And therefore in such high esteem 
with the Ancients, that divers of the Valerian 
family dignify'd and enobled their name 
with that of Lactucinii." He goes on to 
say that " the more frugal Italians and 
French, to this Day, Accept and gather Ogni 
Verdura, any thing almost that's Green and 
Tender, to the very Tops of Nettles ; so 
as every Hedge affords a Sallet (not un- 
agreeable) season'd with its proper Oxy- 
baphon of Vinegar, Salt, Oyl, &c., which 
doubtless gives it both the Relish and Name 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 65 

of Salad, Ensalade, as with us of Sallet, 
from the Sapidity, which renders not Plants 
and Herbs alone, but Men themselves, and 
their Conversations, pleasant and agree- 
able." 

In praise of Lettuce he has much to say, 
and waxes almost dithyrambic as to its 
virtues. " It is indeed of Nature more cold 
and moist than any of the rest ; yet less 
astringent, and so harmless that it may 
safely be eaten raw in Fevers ; for it allays 
Heat, bridles Choler, extinguishes Thirst, 
excites Appetite, kindly Nourishes, and above 
all represses Vapours, conciliates Sleep, miti- 
gates Pain ; besides the effect it has upon 
the Morals. Galen (whose beloved Sallet it 
was) from its pinguid, subdulcid and agree- 
able Nature, says it breeds the most laudable 
blood." 

And again : " We see how necessary it is 
that in the composure of a Sallet every plant 
should come in to bear its part without 
being overpowered by some herb of a 
stronger taste, but should fall into their 
place like the notes, in music." 



66 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Here is a salad recipe, temp. Richard II. 

Take parsel, sawge, garlyc, chibolles, oynons, 
lettes, borage, mynte, poirettes, fenel, and cressis ; 
lave and waithe hem dene, pike hem, plucke hem 
smalle wyth thyne honde, and myng hem wel 
wyth rawe oyl, lay on vynegar and salt and serve 
ytt forth. 

This must have been a strong salad, and 
full-flavoured rather than delicate. " Honde " 
is of course " hand," and to " myng " is to 
mix. The etymology of the recipe is in- 
teresting. 

Old Gervase Markham, in his "English 
Housewife," has this quaint account of how 
to make a " Strange Sallet." 

First, if you would set forth any Red flower, 
that you know or have seen, you shall take your 
pots of preserved Gilly-flowers, and suting the 
colours answerable to the flower, you shall propor- 
tion it forth, and lay the shape of the Flower in 
a Fruit dish, then with your Purslane leaves make 
the Green Coffin of the Flower, and with the Purs- 
lane stalks make the stalk of the Flower, and the 
divisions of the leaves and branches ; then with the 
thin slices of Cucumers, make their leaves in true 
proportions, jagged or otherwise ; and thus you 
may set forth some full blown, some half blown 
and some in the bud, which will be pretty and 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 67 

curious. And if you will set forth yellow flowers, 
take the pots of Primroses and Cowslips, if blew 
flowers, then the pots of Violets or Buglosse 
flowers, and these Sallets are both for shew and 
use, for they are more excellent for taste, than for 
to look on. 

Another variety of old "Sallet" is referred 
to in "The Gentlewoman's Delight" (1654), 
which instructs one 

How to make a Sallet of all manner of Hearbs. 
Take your hearbs, and pick them clean, and the 
floures ; wash them clean, and swing them in a 
strainer ; then put them into a dish, and mingle 
them with Cowcumbers, and Lemons, sliced very 
thin ; then scrape on Sugar, and put in Vinegar 
and Oil ; then spread the floures on the top ; 
garnish your dish with hard Eggs, and all sorts of 
your floures ; scrape on Sugar and serve it. 

An even earlier work, Cogan's " Haven 
of Health" (1589), has the following 
reference : " Lettuse is much used in salets 
in the sommer tyme with vinegar, oyle, and 
sugar and salt, and is formed to procure 
appetite for meate, and to temper the heate 
of the stomach and liver." 

Montaigne recounts a conversation he 
had with an Italian chef who had served in 



68 THE GREEDY BOOK 

the kitchen of Cardinal Caraffa up to the 
death of his gastronomic eminence. " I made 
him," he says, " tell me something about his 
post. He gave me a lecture on the science 
of eating, with a gravity and magisterial 
countenance as if he had been' determin- 
ing some vexed question in theology. . . . 
The difference of salads, according to the 
seasons, he next discoursed upon. He ex- 
plained what sorts ought to be prepared 
warm, and those which should always be 
served cold ; the way of adorning and em- 
bellishing them in order to render them 
seductive to the eye. After this he entered 
on the order of table-service, a subject full 
of fine and important considerations." 

An excerpt from " a late exquisite 
comedy " called The Lawyer's Fortune, or 
Love in a Hollow Tree, is quoted by Dr. 
King (1709) :— 

Mrs. Favourite. Mistress, shall I put any Mush- 
rooms, Mangoes, or Bamboons into the Sallad ? 

Lady Bonona. Yes, I prithee, the best thou 
hast. 

Mrs. Favourite. Shall I use Ketchop or An- 
chovies in the Gravy ? 

Lady Bonona. What you will ! 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 69 

A quaint old book on Salads is entitled 
" On the Use and Abuse of Salads in 
general and Salad Plants in Particular," by 
Johann Friedrich Schiitze, Doctor of Medi- 
cine, and Grand-Ducal Saxe-Coburg-Meinin- 
gen, Physician at Sonnenburg and Neuhaus : 
Leipzig, 1758. The learned doctor adopts 
the classical division of humanity into the 
Temperamentum Sanguineum, or warm and 
damp, the Cholericum, or warm and dry, 
the Phlegmaticum, or cold and damp, and 
the Melancholicum, or cold and dry. To 
each of these classes a particular form of 
Salad applies, and none other. 

When Pope Sixtus the Fifth was an 
obscure monk he had a great friend in a 
certain lawyer who sank steadily into poverty 
what time the monk rose to the Papacy. 
The poor lawyer journeyed to Rome to seek 
aid from his old friend the Pope, but he fell 
sick by the wayside and told his doctor to 
let the Pope know of his sad state. " I will 
send him a salad," said Sixtus, and duly 
dispatched a basket of lettuces to the invalid. 
When the lettuces were opened money was 
found in their hearts. Hence the Italian 



70 THE GREEDY BOOK 

proverb of a man in need of money : " He 
wants one of Sixtus the Fifth's salads." 

Fourcroy and Chaptal, notable chemists 
of the end of the eighteenth century, unite 
in praise of salads, and have written dis- 
quisitions on the dressing thereof; and 
Rabelais opines that the best salad-dressing 
is Good Humour, which is just the sort of 
thing that one might expect from him. His 
references to salad are numerous, and in the 
one oft-quoted case humorously apposite. 

In the olden time salads were mixed by 
pretty women, and they did it with their 
hands. This was so well understood that 
down at least to the time of Rousseau 
(Littre gives a quotation from the " Nouvelle 
Heloise," vi. 2) the phrase Elle peut retourner 
la salade avec les doigts was used to describe 
a woman as being still young and beautiful. 
" Dans le siecle dernier," says Littr6, " les 
jeunes femmes retournaient la salade avec 
les doigts : cette locution a disparu avec 
I'usage lui-m6me." 

Among the gastrological Italian authors 
of the seventeenth century I must refer to 
Salvatore Massonio, who wrote a great work 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 71 

on the manner of dressing salads, entitled 
" Archidipno, overo dell' Insalata e dell' uso 
di essa, Trattato nuovo Curioso e non mai 
pih dato in luce. Da Salvatore Massonio, 
Venice, 1627." The British Museum copy, 
by the way, belonged to Sir Joseph Banks. 
As was usual in those leisurely and spacious 
times, there is a most glowing dedication 
beginning thus : " A Molto lUustri Signori 
miei sempre osservandissimi i Signori fratelli 
Ludovico Antonio e Fabritio Coll' Antonii." 
There is also a compendious bibliography 
of 1 14 authors consulted and mentioned in 
this work, which, indeed, is of considerable 
importance and of great interest. 

Every one knows the oft-told tale of the 
French emigri who went about to noble- 
men's houses mixing delicate salads at a 
high fee. Most authorities refer to him 
as d'Albignac, although Dr. Doran, in his 
"Table Traits," calls him le Chevalier 
d'Aubignd ; but Grenville Murray, who 
generally knew what he was writing about, 
says that his name was Gaudet. However, 
that matters little. He, whoever he was, 
appears to have been an enterprising hustler 



72 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of the period, and it is recorded that he 
made a decent little fortune on which he 
eventually retired to his native land to enjoy 
peace and plenty for the remainder of his 
days. 

In Mortimer Collins's "The British Birds, 
by the Ghost of Aristophanes "(1872), there 
is a poetic tourney between three poets for 
the laureateship of Cloud-Cuckooland ; the 
subject is " Salad." The poet with the 
" redundant brow " sings : — 

O cool in the summer is salad, 

And warm in the winter is love ; 
And a poet shall sing you a ballad 

Delicious thereon and thereof. 
A singer am I, if no sinner. 

My muse has a marvellous wing, 
And I willingly worship at dinner 

The Sirens of Spring. 

Take endive . . . like love it is bitter ; 

Take beet . . . for like love it is red : 
Crisp leaf of the lettuce shall glitter. 

And cress from the rivulet's bed : 
Anchovies foam-born, like the Lady 

Whose beauty has maddened this bard ; 
And olives from groves that are shady ; 

And eggs . . . boil 'em hard. 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 73 

The poet with the " redundant beard " 
chants next. 

Waitress, with eyes so marvellous black, 

And the blackest possible lustrous gay tress, 
This is the mouth of the Zodiac 

When I want a pretty deft-handed waitress. 
Bring a china bowl, you merry young soul ; 

Bring anything green, from worsted to celery ; 
Bring pure olive oil, from Italy's soil . . . 

Then your china bowl we'll well array. 
When the time arrives chip choicest chives. 

And administer quietly chili and capsicum . . . 
(Young girls do not quite know what's what 

Till as a poet into their laps I come). 
Then a lobster fresh as fresh can be 

(When it screams in the pot I feel a murderer) : 
After which I fancy we 

Shall want a few bottles of Heidseck or Roederer. 

The poet of " the redundant hair " then 
sings his lay in Tennysonian-Arthurian lines, 
and is ultimately awarded the laureateship 
of Cloud-Cuckoo-Town. 

The verses do not show poor Collins at 
his best, and are only interesting as relating 
to the subject of salad. Other songs of his 
have never been excelled in a certain delicate 
charm of fancy and quaint turns of versifi- 
cation. 



74 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Many salads have been mixed on the 
stage ; the most famous perhaps is the 
Japanese salad which occurs in Alexandre 
Dumas fils' " Francillon " (produced at the 
Theatre Frangais, 17 January, 1887). It is 
not orthodox, and, even when deftly mixed, 
not particularly nice, the flavours being 
coarsely blended. Annette de Riverolles, 
inimitably played by Reichemberg of the 
smiling teeth, dictates the recipe to Henri de 
Symeux, originally acted by Laroche. Here 
is the passage :— 

Annette. You must boil your potatoes in broth, 
then cut them into slices, just as you would for an 
ordinary salad, and whilst they are still lukewarm, 
add salt, pepper, very good olive oil, with the 
flavour of the fruit, vinegar . . . 

Henri. Tarragon ? 

Annette. Orleans is better, but it is not important. 
But what is important is half a glass of white wine, 
Chateau- Yquem, if possible. Plenty of finely- 
chopped herbs. Now boil some very large mussels 
in a small broth (court-bouillon), with a head of 
celery, drain them well and add them to the dressed 
potatoes. Mix it all up delicately. 

Therhe. Fewer mussels than potatoes .'' 

Annette. One-third less. The flavour of the 
mussels must be gradually felt ; it must not be 
anticipated, and it must not assert itself. 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 75 

Stanislas. Very well put. 

Annette. Thank you. When the salad is finished, 
mixed . . . 

Henri. Lightly . . . 

Annette. Then you cover it with slices of truffles, 
like professors' skull-caps. 

Henri. Boiled in champagne. 

Annette. Of course. All this must be done a 
couple of hours before dinner, so that the salad 
may get thoroughly cold before serving it. 

Henri. You could put the salad-bowl on ice. 

Annette. No, no. It must not be assaulted with 
ice. It is very delicate, and the different flavours 
must combine peacefully. Did you like the salad 
you had to-day .'' 

Henri. Delicious ! 

Annette. Well, follow my recipe and you will 
make it equally well. 

A few years ago Mr. Charles Brookfield 
mixed an admirable salad on the stage of 
the Haymarket in the course of his clever 
monologue " Nearly Seven." On 3 1 January, 
1 83 1, "La salade d'oranges, ou les dtrennes 
dans la mansarde," by M. M. Varin and 
Desvergers, was played at the Palais Royal. 
The first-named author was a sort of gastro- 
nomic playwright, for he wrote plays called 
" Le cuisinier politique," " J'ai mang6 mon 
ami,' and others. 



76 THE GREEDY BOOK 

In the Bohemian quarter of Paris, not so 
very many years ago, the students of the 
plein air school, the Paysagistes, used to sing 
this song at their convivial meetings : — 

Ah ! que j'aime avec de la salade, 

Un gros mor9eau de jambon ! 
Y a pas danger qu'on soit jamais malade 

Quand on mange avec de la salade 

Un bon mor^eau de jambon. 
Amis, cassons les pots, les plats, les verres, 

Cassons les verres, les plats, les pots ; 
Puisqu'il n'y a plus dans I'plat qu'des pommes 

de terre, 
Cassons les verres, les pots, les plats ! 

" When summer is icumen in," one 
naturally turns to the cooling salad, the 
refreshing salmon mayonnaise, and the con- 
comitant delights of mid-season entertaining. 
Regularly at that time of the year learned 
pundits in the daily papers tell us with por- 
tentous gravity what we ought to eat and 
what we ought to let alone. All this is the 
direst nonsense. A man or a woman of 
sense will eat that for which he or she feels 
inclined, and will have the requisite gastro- 
nomic gumption to avoid heating dishes 
which are unseasonable and unpalatable. 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 77 

With all changes of the weather sensible 
people accommodate their diet to the meteor- 
ological conditions ; fish is preferable to 
meat, and fruit plays its strong suit, because 
its cooling juices are just what we yearn to 
dally with when our appetites are a little 
under the weather. All this is axiomatic. 
Of salads in particular. I should like to 
give here and now the recipe of a salad 
which I have found most soothing and com- 
forting in hot weather. I may, perhaps, 
be permitted to act as godfather and christen 
it "Vanity Fair Salad." It is quite simple 
and wholesome and toothsome. Here fol- 
loweth the recipe. 

Vanity Fair Salad. — Take eight to ten cold 
cooked artichoke bottoms {finds d' artichauts), fresh, 
not preserved, and the yellow hearts of two young 
healthy lettuces {coeurs de laitue). Break them into 
pieces with a silver fork or your fingers (on no 
account let them be touched by steel) ; add a not 
too thinly sliced cucumber, peeled ; toss these 
together. Let them stand for half an hour ; then 
drain off all the water. Now add two or thiree 
tablespoonfuls of pickled red cabbage, minus all 
vinegar, and a dozen sliced-up radishes. Add the 
dressing. As to this I prefer not to dogmatize. 
My own mixture is three and a half tablespoonfuls 



78 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of the very best Nice olive oil to one of wine 
vinegar and one-half of tarragon, with salt, pepper, 
French mustard, and three drops of Tabasco 
sauce. But this is a matter of opinion, and I in- 
sist on nothing except the total avoidance of that 
horrible furniture-polish mixture sold in quaint 
convoluted bottles, and humorously dubbed " salad 
sauce." Just before serving sprinkle the salad 
with chopped chervil and a suspicion of chives. 

Our great-grandmothers had various and 
curious recipes for the assuagement of 
summer fevers and megrims of that nature. 
From an old volume of " The Lady's Com- 
panion, or an infallible Guide to the Fair 
Sex," published anonymously in 1743, I cull 
the following recipe for "Gascoign Powder." 

Take prepar'd Crabs' Eyes, Red Coral, White 
Amber, very finely powdered, of each half an 
Ounce ; burnt Hartshorn, half an Ounce ; Pearls 
very finely powdered, and Oriental Bezoar, an 
Ounce of each ; of the black Tops of Crabs' 
Claws, finely powdered, four Ounces. Grind all 
these on a Marble Stone, till they cast a greenish 
Colour ; then make it into Balls with Jelly made 
of English Vipers Skins, which may be made, 
and will jelly like Hartshorn. 

Of course, this was never meant to be 
taken seriously, but the old cookery-book 



THE SALAD IN LITERATURE 79 

compilers always thought that a few of these 
pseudo-medieval recipes, assumed to have 
been compounded by the wise men of old, 
added a certain dignity to their otherwise 
quite harmless volumes. 

The late Sir Henry Thompson recom- 
mends that the host or hostess should mix 
the salad, because not many servants can be 
trusted to execute the simple details. 

Mixing one saltspoon of salt and half that 
quantity of pepper in a tablespoon which is to be 
filled three times consecutively with the best fresh 
olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments 
have been thoroughly mixed and at the same time 
distributed over the salad, this is next to be tossed 
thoroughly but lightly, until every portion glistens, 
scattering meantime a little finely chopped fresh 
tarragon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives 
over the whole, so that sparkling green particles 
spot, as with a pattern, every portion of the leafy 
surface. Lastly, but only immediately before 
serving, one small tablespoonful of mild French, 
or better still, Italian red-wine vinegar, is to be 
sprinkled over all, followed by another tossing of 
the salad. 

" La Salade de la Grande Jeanne " is a 
pretty child's story by the prolific writer, 
P. J. Stahl (really P. J. Hetzel), telling of 



8o THE GREEDY BOOK 

the friendship of a tiny tot named Marie 
and a cow named Jeanne. They were born 
on the same day, but the calf grew to a big 
cow long before Marie became a big girl, but 
they remained firm friends, and Marie al- 
ways took Jeanne to the pasture and Jeanne 
in return took care of Marie. 

One day Marie's little brother Jacques 
had a brilliant idea. He pitied poor Jeanne 
having always to eat her grass just plain 
without any dressing. How much better 
she would enjoy her food if it were properly 
mixed into a salad. So Jacques borrowed 
a big salad-bowl from his mother, and mixed 
a bundle of grass with oil and vinegar and 
pepper and salt. He put the bowl before 
Jeanne, who, being a polite cow, tasted the 
strange dish. Hardly had her great tongue 
plunged into the grass than she withdrew it 
with a melancholy moo, and swinging her tail 
in an expostulatory manner, she trotted off to 
the brook to take a long drink of water. 

The moral is very trite. "The simple 
cuisine of nature suits cows better than that 
of man." 




" Every individual, who is not perfectly imbecile 
and void of understanding, is an epicure in his 
way ; the epicures in boiling potatoes are in- 
numerable. The perfection of all enjoyments 
depends on the perfection of the faculties of the 
mind and body ; the temperate man is the 
greatest epicure, and the only true voluptuary." 
Dr. Kitchiner. 

Old myths die hard. Nevertheless, as we 
grow older and wiser and saner and duller, 
we drop the illusions of our youth, and one 
by one our cherished beliefs fall from us, 
argued away by force of circumstance, lack 
of substantiation, or sheer proof to the 
contrary. 

In this last category we must perforce 
reckon the excellent Mrs. Hannah Glasse 
o 8i 



82 THE GREEDY BOOK 

and her immortal saying, " First catch your 
hare, then cook it." Alas and alack, Mrs. 
Glasse never existed — " there never was no 
sich person " — and, moreover, the cookery 
book bearing her name, in none of its many 
editions, contains the oft-quoted words. 

The actual facts, although, indeed, these 
are open to a certain amount of dubiety, 
appear to be as follows. In Boswell's 
" Johnson " there are several references to 
one Edward Dilly, who with his brother 
Charles carried on a flourishing book-shop 
in the Poultry. Dr. Johnson often dined 
with these estimable men, and at their table 
met most of the wits and scholars of the 
day. The great lexicographer referred to 
the brothers as his " worthy friends." It is 
on record that Edward Dilly, in the presence 
of Boswell, Mayo, Miss Seward, and the 
Duke of Bedford's tutor, the Rev. Mr. 
Beresford, said to Dr. Johnson, " Mrs. 
Glasse's * Cookery,' which is the best, was 
written by Dr. Hill. Half the trade knows 
this." 

Now this Dr. John Hill (not Aaron Hill, 
as assumed by Mr. Waller) was a rather 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 83 

interesting personality. He was a brilliant 
man in many directions, who misused his 
talents, and devoted his energies to so many 
various professions that it is not surprising 
to learn that he succeeded permanently in 
none. It is known of him that he was at 
different times apothecary, actor, pamphle- 
teer, journalist, novelist, dramatist, herbalist, 
naturalist, and quack-doctor. He took a 
degree at St. Andrews, and his nickname 
was " Dr. Atall." He married the sister of 
the then Lord Ranelagh, and by some 
manner of means got himself decorated 
with the Swedish order of the Polar Star, 
on the strength of which he paraded himself 
as Sir John Hill. No one, however, appears 
to have taken him at his own appraisement, 
for he was the general butt of wits, epigram- 
matists, and lampoonists. His death was 
attributed to the use of his own gout remedy, 
and these lines to him still survive : — 

For physic and farces 
His equal there scarce is ; 
His farces ar^ physic, 
His physic a farce is. 

Well, this same John Hill, in his earlier 



84 THE GREEDY BOOK 

and more obscure days, was doing hack-work 
for the booksellers, and also following the 
business of an apothecary in St. Martin's 
Lane. This must have been in the year 
1744 or 1745. He was struck (as who 
might not have been) by the ease with which 
a new cookery book might be compiled by 
extracting the best recipes from scores of old 
ones, and rehashing them with original 
remarks and new settings. He had plenty 
of material to work upon. The best-known 
cookery books prior to that date were, 
according to Dr. Kitchiner (who wrongly 
dates Mrs. Glasse 1757), Sarah Jackson's 
" Cook's Director," La Chapelle's " Modern 
Cookj" Kidder's " Receipts," Harrison's 
"Family Cook," "Adam's Luxury and 
Eve's Cookery," " The Accomplish'd 
Housewife," " Lemery on Food," Arnaud's 
" Alarm to all Persons touching their 
Health and Lives," Smith's " Cookery," 
Hall's " Royal Cookery," Dr. Salmon's 
" Cookery," " The Compleat Cook," and 
many more. 

Hill accordingly made up his book, and 
his introduction was certainly ingenuous and 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 85 

modest ; one phrase will prove this : " If I 
had not wrote in the high polite style, I 
hope I shall be forgiven ; for my intention 
is to instruct the lower sort." The sly dog 
knew his public, and this is further proved 
by his not. putting his book to the world 
through a bookseller, but publishing it him- 
self, and evolving an entirely new method 
of distribution. Among his friends he 
numbered the ingenious Mrs. Ashbiirn, or 
Ashburner, as it is spelt in some of the later 
editions. This good lady kept a glass and 
china shop in Fleet Street, hard by Temple 
Bar, and her customers came from the 
fashionable squares of Bloomsbury and St. 
James. Hill made an arrangement with 
Mrs. Ashburn, whereby she sold his book 
over her counter and recommended it warmly 
to all the ladies who called at her shop. 

In order to make the illusion of author- 
ship more complete, a female name was 
wanted for the title page. What could be 
more simple than "Mrs. Glasse," seeing 
that Mrs. Ashburn kept a glass shop .'' The 
exact title of the magnum opus ran, " The 
Art of Cookery made Plain and Easy, which 



86 THE GREEDY BOOK 

far exceeds anything yet published. By a 
Lady. Printed for the author and sold at 
Mrs. Ashburn's, a china shop, the corner of 
Fleet Ditch, 1745." The actual name of 
Mrs. Glasse did not, however, appear on the 
title page until the issue of the third edition, 
for the book was a great success from the 
first; every one came to Mrs. Ashburn's to 
buy it, and its popularity vastly helped the 
glass and china trade. 

About fourteen years ago a lively dis- 
cussion as to the authentic authorship of 
Mrs. Glasse filled several columns in the 
newspapers, the principal correspondents 
being Mr. W. F. Waller and Mr. G. A. Sala. 
It was suggested that " first catch your hare " 
was a misprint for " first case your hare." 
Mr. Waller proved that neither of these 
passages occurred in any known edition of 
the book, although case, meaning " to skin," 
would have been entirely legitimate and in 
place. 

Shakespeare says in " All's Well That 

Ends Well " :— 

We'll make you some sport with the fox ere 
we case him 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 87 

And a reference to Beaumont and Fletcher's 
" Love's Pilgrimage " gives the lines — 

Some of them knew me. 
Else had they cased me Uke a coney. 

The actual phrase used is " First cast your 
hare," or, in another edition, " Take your 
hare, and when it is cast." This simply 
means flayed or skinned, and was commonly 
used at the time. The verb " to scotch " or 
" to scatch " is East Anglian, and has the 
same meaning. So much for the authenticity 
of the quotation. 

Curiously enough, in the newspaper con- 
troversy above referred to, George Augustus 
Sala strongly supported the claims of Mrs. 
Glasse herself as the real author, and there 
certainly appears to be some circumstantial 
evidence as to a lady of that name who was 
" habit-maker to the Royal family " about 
that period, although her connexion with 
the culinary art is not to be traced. Inci- 
dentally Sala mentions a receipt from a 
cookery book written by " An ingenious 
Gaul " towards the middle of the seven- 
teenth century, which begins with what he 
terms " A Culinary Truism," since changed 



88 THE GREEDY BOOK 

into " A proverbial platitude " — namely, the 
words ^'■pour faire un civet, prenez un lievre." 
This is, however, of course merely a com- 
monplace of the kitchen, and, according to 
the learned authority of Dr. Thudichum, 
the imperative oi prendre has not the catching 
meaning apparently attached to it by Sala. 

Abraham Hayward, Q.C., whose " Art of 
Dining," a reprint of certain " Quarterly 
Review " articles, must always remain one 
of the greatest classics of English gastro- 
nomical literature, says that Mrs. Glasse's 
cookery book was written by Dr. Hunter, of 
York. This is, of course, an egregious 
error. Dr. Hunter was the author of 
" Culina Famulatrix Medicinae ; or. Receipts 
in Modern Cookery" (1804, fourth edition), 
with the delightful dedication, "To those 
gentlemen who freely give two guineas for a 
Turtle Dinner at the Tavern, when they 
might have a more wholesome one at Home 
for Ten Shillings, this work is humbly dedi- 
cated " ; and an exquisite frontispiece of a 
pig, by Qarr, headed " Transmigration " ; 
but he was in no way responsible for Mrs. 
Glasse. 




LES AL'DIEN'CES D'UN GOURMAND 
(A. B. L. Grimod de la Rnnicrc inv. 1S04) 

[To face page 09 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 89 

The case is very fairly summed up by 
Mrs. Joseph Pennell in " My Cookery 
Books." She says, speaking of Mrs. 
Glasse : " Her fame is due, not to her 
genius, for she really had none, but to the 
fact that her own generation believed there 
was no such person, and after generations 
believed in her as the author of a phrase she 
never wrote." There really seems no more 
to be said on the matter. 

It matters little, after all, whether Mrs. 
Glasse really existed or not ; anyhow, some 
of her precepts are excellent and endure to 
this day. She preached thorough mastication 
as a primary rule for good digestion. This 
is thoroughly sound and praiseworthy. 

" Most men dig their graves with their 
teeth," so says an old Chinese proverb, 
meaning, no doubt, that we all eat too much, 
and too fast, and too often, and too promis- 
cuously. The propriety of eating slowly 
ought always to be remembered. Mr. 
Gladstone's thirty-two bites are historical. 
Napoleon was a terribly fast eater, and this 
habit is supposed to have paralysed him on 
two of the most critical occasions of his life. 



go THE GREEDY BOOK 

the battles of Leipzig and Borodino, which 
he might have converted into decisive and 
influential victories by pushing his advan- 
tages as he was wont. On each of these 
occasions he was known to have been suffer- 
ing from indigestion. On the third day at 
Dresden, too, the German novelist Hoff- 
mann, who was present in the town, asserts 
that the Emperor would have done much 
more than he did but for the effects of a 
shoulder of mutton stufi^ed with onions. 

It is a certain fact, although difficult to 
prove by statistics, that a large proportion 
of the drink consumed by the working- 
classes is directly due to the bad cooking 
which. they have to endure in their homes. 
Improve the workman's cuisine, and you will 
automatically lessen the drink bill. This is 
a point of view which philanthropists and 
temperance folk might adopt with immense 
advantage, and with practically immediate 
results. 

Dr. Max Einhorn has recently written on 
the subject of correct eating, which he divides 
into three distinct headings : Tachyphagia, 
Bradyphagia, and Euphagia. The first of 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 91 

these is the common evil of hasty eating, in 
which the food is not sufficiently masticated, 
and hence enters the stomach without being 
properly insalivated and comminuted. Besides 
the deleterious mechanical effect, tachyphagia 
also encourages the taking of large quantities 
of food in too short a time, as well as its 
consumption too hot or too cold. 

The rising generation is going to fight 
tachyphagia tooth and nail — especially tooth. 
It is being taught wisely and well by the 
disciples of the Cookery and Food Associa- 
tion how to improve the family digestion, 
and there is an old saying to the effect that 
digestion is the business of the cook, indiges- 
tion that of the doctor. It cannot be too 
often or too forcibly impressed upon the so- 
called working-classes, and upon a good 
many other classes of society also, that good 
cooking does not mean waste and extrava- 
gance, but, on the contrary, that it connotes 
economy and frugality. A daughter who 
can cook well is tantaniount to possessing 
a Savings-Bank account. 

Are you a Euphagist ? Perhaps, like the 
immortal M. Jourdain, of IVIoliere, you may 



92 THE GREEDY BOOK 

have been one all your life — and never knew 
it. Anyhow, it is a question which is being 
bandied about at dinners just now a good 
deal, and as very few people know what a 
Euphagist really is, it may be as well to 
explain. Briefly then, Euphagists are the 
modern exponents of the old adage, " Laugh 
and grow fat." As a sect, or a race, or a 
cult, or whatever they may please to call 
themselves, they refuse to take anything 
seriously at meal-times, which is an entirely 
sound and philosophical theory. 

The learned German professor above re- 
ferred to is the inventor, or discoverer, or 
resuscitator of the idea, and his doctrine 
is summed up in the brief instruction : 
Bite everything twenty times, don't worry 
whilst eating, laugh at everything — and 
acquire sound health. After all, it is a tried 
truism that there is no digestive as efficacious 
as hearty laughter. A solemn diner, es- 
pecially if he dine often alone, is almost 
invariably dyspeptic ; whereas a bright, cheery 
man or woman, who has a keen sense of 
humour, and sees the comic side of most 
things, is rarely a sufferer from indigestion. 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 93 

" Even our digestion is governed by angels," 
said William Blake, the artist-poet, and (if 
you will but resist the trivial inclination to 
substitute " bad angels ") is there really any 
greater mystery than the process by which 
beef is turned into brains, and jam into 
beauty ? 

Of course we do not laugh enough — at 
the utmost we giggle unmusically. Listen 
to the conversation in general at any res- 
taurant, or even any dinner party ; you will 
rarely hear a really hearty laugh. It is as 
extinct as silver dpergnes or peacock-pie. 

It is told of an American dining at the 
Carlton one night that, struck by the com- 
parative silence of all the diners, he asked 
one of the waiters : " Say, does nobody 
ever laugh here .'' " The reply came pat 
enough : " Yes, sir, I believe there have 
been one or two complaints about it lately." 
Are we too solemn, or too dull, or too 
afraid of shocking our neighbours ? 

It was not always so. According to 
that delightful work, "The Household of 
Sir Thomas More " : " What rare sport we 
had with a mummery we called ' The Triall 



94 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of Feasting.' Dinner and Supper were 
brought up before my Lord Chief Justice, 
charg'd with Murder. Their accomplices 
were Plum-pudding, Mince-Pye, Drunken- 
ness, and such-like. Being condemned to 
hang by ye neck, I, who was Supper, stuft 
out with I cannot tell you how manie pillows, 
began to call lustilie for a confessor, and on 
his stepping forthe, commenct a list of all 
yc fitts, convulsions, spasms, payns in ye 
head, and so forthe, I had inflicted on this 
one and t'other." 

In those days, no doubt, they did not 
require to adopt the tenets of Euphagisin, 
they were well enough without it. To-day, 
however, as a change, and a delightful one 
too, from the hundred and one food-fads 
which abound, a general adoption of Euphag- 
ism would seem to promise brighter meals, 
more fun, and better health. 

Among other aids to digestion which are 
flagrantly neglected is the taking of one's 
food in the open air whenever the thermo- 
metrical conditions of our somewhat erratic 
climate render it possible. 

Just exactly why we take every oppor- 



MRS. GLASSE AND HER HARE 95 

tunity of dining in the open air when we 
are abroad, and carefully fight shy of it, 
under more or less similar circumstances, 
when we are at home, is one of those ques- 
tions which are unsolved, and apparently 
unsolvable. Our distaste for British coal 
may be one answer to the conundrum, and 
another may be not unconnected with our 
national shyness at being seen eating our 
meals in public by our fellow-countrymen. 
Foreigners, of course, don't count. Oppor- 
tunity is not lacking, in London at any rate, 
for open-air dining. It can be done at several 
of the hotels, and in the summer there is 
Earl's Court, where, despite certain obvious 
drawbacks of access and other things, it can 
be enjoyed without much discomfort. 

But these are, after all, only town delights, 
and not comparable to a dinner on a July 
evening in the open air in the country. One 
such lingers most pleasantly in my memory. 
It was at a charming house in Hampshire. 
We dined on a marble terrace, on which 
soft rugs had been placed. The night was 
still enough for the candles on the table to 
burn without guttering. Below the terrace 



96 THE GREEDY BOOK 

was a rose-garden, full of bloom, and in 
a shrubbery, not too close to the house, a 
Hungarian band played discreetly. The 
dinner, according to my recollection, was 
not extraordinarily good, but whatever it 
may have been, the surroundings, the mise 
en scene, were such that almost anything 
would have been appetizing and delightful. 
Why cannot more of this sort of thing be 
done .'' We cannot all possess marble 
terraces, rose-gardens, and Hungarian bands ; 
but the permutations of the idea are in- 
numerable, and I beg to present it to summer 
hostesses for development and improvement. 

Exigencies of climate will probably never 
permit us to realize the al fresco meals sug- 
gested by a Watteau, a Boucher, or a 
Fragonard, and it is, indeed, more than 
questionable whether the French cuisine, 
which was flourishing round and about that 
period, was ever designed for the diner sur 
rherbe, which is, and was, an essentially 
bourgeois meal. 

At any rate, a curious old book in four 
volumes, " Les Soupers de la Cour ; ou 
L'Art de Travailler toutes sortes d'Alimens," 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE 97 

by Menon, which was published in Paris 
au Lys d'Or in 1755, contains many appal- 
lingly long menus, some comprising five 
services and forty or more dishes, expressly 
designed to be eaten out of doors. No less 
an authority than Car^me, however, says 
that these menus (and they are certainly 
extraordinarily elaborate) were the result of 
pure imagination on the part of feu M. 
Menon, and were never actually carried out. 

In our days even our shooting lunches 
tend to greater extent than can usefully be 
accommodated on the grass ; and we are 
accordingly bidden to a farm-house, a tent, 
or sometimes a garnished barn. The lunch 
under a hedge, unloaded from the pony 
and spread temptingly on the grass, is almost 
a thing of the past, which, according to some 
old-fashioned fogies, is a pity. 

Be that as it may, there is one open-air 
lunch which can never be altogether im- 
proved away. That is the river lunch, either 
in a punt or a skiff, with a table deftly made 
of the sculls and the stretchers. More- 
over, it has this inestimable advantage : it is 
practically impossible for more than two to 



98 THE GREEDY BOOK 

partake of a boat lunch with comfort. It 
can, of course, be done, but at a sacrifice of 
leg room — and other things. Of course the 
more dignified motor-launch lunches, served 
at a real table, do not count, for are they 
not the same as those eaten on dry land .'' 

It was, I think, the late Sir William Vernon 
Harcourt who once remarked that " we are 
all Socialists now." By the same token we 
may say to-day, "We are all motorists now," 
and really, taking it by and large, the luncheon 
part of a motor trip is by no means the least 
interesting. 

That British hotels, with very few excep- 
tions, leave much to be desired is the tritest 
of truisms. Bad cookery, shocking atten- 
dance, and old-fashioned appointments, com- 
bined with disproportionate expense, are 
almost universal, and a big fortune awaits 
any Boniface who, with a good house on 
a much-frequented road, instals a really good 
cook, preferably a Frenchman and his wife, 
not necessarily a high-priced individual, and 
makes a speciality of well-cooked, daintily 
served, appetizing lunches and dinners. 

We have all met, only too frequently, the 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE 99 

miserable sham lamb, which is mere mutton 
saucily disguised with mint ; the nearly raw 
cold beef; the maltreated chop ; the apolo- 
getic steak ; the absurd parody of a salad ; 
the sad and heavy apple tart ; and the any- 
thing but real Cheddar cheese. All these 
things are absurd and quite unnecessary. 

It is really just as easy to cook a good 
dinner as a bad one. Experto crede. 

The usual alternative for the foregoing bill 
of fare is a cheap and nasty imitation of a 
French menu, where nothing is true to name, 
and only the frills on the cutlets are what 
they pretend to be. It really should not be 
difficult to give a well-cooked fillet of sole, a 
tender chicken, an omelet aux fines herbes, and 
a dish of vegetables in season, sautis au beurre ; 
but if you asked for a lunch of this sort at 
a wayside British inn you would be put down 
at once as a lunatic. Why } 

The question of packing a motor lunch 
is one of some difficulty and niceness. 
Personally, I do not for one moment believe 
in those elaborate ready- fitted baskets, of 
which the makers are so inordinately proud. 
Such a basket seldom fits the lunch, and I 



loo THE GREEDY BOOK 

find by experience that a good-sized empty 
basket of convenient shape is far more 
practical. 

The cutlery, glass, and china may be fixed^ 
as a matter of convenience, although I do 
not consider even that to be necessary, for in 
packing up one is always trying to fit a table- 
knife into the place made for a teaspoon. 

My ideal basket or hamper is quite bare 
inside (to begin with), and the cates, bottles, 
knives, forks, and spoons are packed therein, 
tightly and carefully, so as to prevent shaking 
and rattling. 

A good method of keeping a salad fresh 
and crisp, by the way, is to hollow out a loaf 
of bread, cut off a slice at the top in the 
form of a lid, and pack the salad inside. 
Japanese paper serviettes are useful ; little 
and big cardboard plates and dishes are to 
be bought for a trifle ; fruit travels best if 
surrounded with green leaves ; Devonshire 
cream in pots is an appreciable luxury ; coffee 
can be made in the cafetiere gourmet^ if boil- 
ing water be handy. And, lastly, don't forget 
the corkscrew ! 

According to the calendar, spring begins 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE loi 

officially on 2i March. But the restaurateurs 
can beat Dame Nature, who, presumably, 
edits the calendar (another lady's paper !), by 
at least six weeks. For the season of 
primeurs commences six weeks earlier, and 
coming before their time, they are appre- 
ciated all the more for their vernal suggestion 
of the flavour of the real thing, arriving in 
due season when all the world, and his wife 
may eat thereof. 

Early green peas, for instance, which have 
hitherto been imported from Algiers, come 
from Nice, also the famous Lauris giant 
asparagus, white and succulent. This earliest 
open-air asparagus, of indubitable excellence, 
is to be had at about thirty-eight to forty-five 
shillings per bundle of fifty heads. It is 
worth the price. 

Now too is the time to eat the real 
Pauillac lamb, reared on the salt marshes of 
Pauillac, young, fat, white, and so luscious 
that it melts in the mouth. The whole 
young lamb barely weighs fourteen pounds, 
and a cut of this veritable pre sale, so often 
badly imitated and misnamed, is worth a 
king's ransom. 



I02 THE GREEDY BOOK 

But perpend when you order the dish at 
a restaurant. The mattre d'httel will recom- 
mend a leg, because it has the better appear- 
ance ; the knowledgeable diner, however, 
will inevitably prefer the shoulder, which is 
the quintessence of delicacy. 

According to M. Roche, of Duke Street, 
Adelphi, the greatest authority on primeurs 
in London, early spring is the time beyond 
all others to indulge in the toothsome cretes 
de coq, or cockscombs, without which no self- 
respecting dish a la financiere is complete. 
The haricots verts gris, from Spain, are also 
in excellent condition. They are not much 
to look at, but the flavour is just exquisite. 
They cost about three shillings a pound. 

The far-famed poulet du Mans and equally 
attractive foularde de Br esse are on the 
market at about twelve and sixpence each, 
but there is, I regret to say, a deal of fiction 
attending the appearance of these plump and 
pleasing birds on the usual London res- 
taurant bill of fare. Either of them forms 
an imposing line on the menu, but see that 
you get the real French bird, and not the 
ordinary Surrey barn-door fowl, which. 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE 103 

however good in its way — and I should be 
the last to underrate the product of my own 
county — is of distinctly inferior flavour 
compared with its better-bred Gallic cousin. 

The timely primeurs in the way of salads 
are numerous : the m&che is in excellent con- 
dition, and so is the barbe de capucin, duly 
blanched in cellars ; the Chicorie de Bruxelles 
is a welcome change; and although the 
romaine at one and sixpence each are ex- 
pensive, they are large-hearted and good of 
their kind. 

The crazej however, for early vegetables 
may easily be overdone. A rather well- 
known gourmet, who has a place in the 
country, grows all his " early-out-of-the- 
season " stuflf under glass. He was enter- 
taining some friends in the month of May, 
and gave them very excellent new potatoes, 
boasting the while of their rarity. " My 
good man," said a guest, " there is really 
nothing at all extraordinary in getting new 
potatoes in May, one can eat them any- 
where." But he had reckoned without his 
host. " Of course you can," was the reply, 
" if you want ordinary new potatoes. These 



I04 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of mine are early potatoes of next season 
but one ! " 

" If I drink any more," said Lady Coventry 
at Lord Hertford's table, " if I drink any 
more, I shall be muckibus." 

" Lord ! " said Lady Mary Coke, " what 
is that ? " 

" Oh," was the reply, " it is Irish for 
sentimental." 

This was dinner- table conversation one 
hundred and fifty years ago, teste Horace 
Walpole. They were franker in those days. 

" This wine," said a notable host to one 
Mr. Pocock of Bristol, "costs me six 
shillings a bottle." 

" Does it," asked the guest, with a quaint 
look of gay reproof ; " then pass it round, 
and let me have another six penn'orth ! " 

In the eighteenth century, Sir Walter 
Besant tells us, people habitually ate and 
drank too much ; citizens and aldermen 
grew portentously fat ; well-bred people 
would gnaw bones with their fingers at 
public banquets ; an imperial quart of ale 
was a day's ordinary allowance, and a man 
would drink his six bottles of port at a 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE 105 

sitting. Another illustration of a lusty appe- 
tite may be quoted from the Memoirs of 
Sir Walter Scott. He and his friend, 
Mr. Shortreed, on one of those Liddesdale 
raids when he was so brisk-hearted and 
jovial, rode over one morning from Clench- 
head to breakfast with Thomas Elliott of 
Tuzzliehope. Before starting at six o'clock, 
just to lay their stomachs, they had a couple 
of ducks and some London porter, and were, 
nevertheless, well disposed on their arrival 
at Tuzzliehope for a substantial breakfast, 
with copious libations of whisky punch, 
which did not in any degree incapacitate 
them, for they were able to pursue their 
journey, picking up fragments of border 
minstrelsy as they went along. And it was 
not only on country excursions that meat 
and drink were consumed ad libitum ; the 
ordinary diet of the men of the period was 
what we would call redundant, and their 
feasts were Gargantuan. A dinner given 
by James Ballantyne on the birth-eve of a 
novel is thus described : — 

The feast was gorgeous, an aldermanic 
display . of turtles and venison with the 



io6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

suitable accompaniments of iced punch, 
potent ale, and generous Madeira. When, 
the cloth had been drawn and many toasts 
had been honoured and songs sung, the 
claret and olives made way for broiled bones 
and a mighty bowl of punch, and when a 
few glasses of the hot beverage had restored 
their powers, the guests were ready to listen 
to the new romance, read aloud by Ballantyne 
ore rotunda. A novel, under these circum- 
stances, especially if of the somewhat lengthy 
and descriptive nature current at that period, 
must have been at once stimulating, satisfy- 
ing, and soporific. 

There is authority and to spare as to the 
comparative plethora of food which was 
piled on the table to incite, provoke and 
assuage the decidedly healthy appetites of 
our forbears. In No. 148 of "The Tatler," 
Addison writes : — 

" At last I discovered, with some joy, a 
pig at the lower end of the table, and begged 
a gentleman that was near to cut me a piece 
of it. Upon which the gentleman of the house 
said with real civility : * I am sure you will 
like the pig, for it was whipt to death.' " 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE 107 

In those days a sucking-pig was supposed 
to acquire greater succulence through flagel- 
lation. What with burning down a house 
(although only a Chinese one) to make roast 
pork, and flogging a baby, the pigs must 
have had rather a hard time. An eighteenth- 
century pig underwent various vicissitudes 
from which a twentieth - century pig is 
exempt. 

Goethe has a story in his " Campaign in 
France " that, after a long and tiring fight, 
some of Prince Louis Ferdinand's soldiers 
looted a heavy locked-up kitchen-dresser, in 
which they heard something heavy rolling 
about. They concluded it was food, and as 
they were well-nigh famished they took it 
out to the camp and broke it open. To 
their horror and disgust, all it contained was 
a weighty cookery book. However, they 
made the best of a bad job, and as they had 
no supper, they sat round the camp fire and 
one man after the other read out a succulent 
receipt from the book, and thus they tried 
to pretend that they were enjoying a gorgeous 
supper. This is, indeed, the true spirit of 
appreciative gastronomy, and the table- 



io8 THE GREEDY BOOK 

manners of these hungry but easily appeased 
warriors must have been the quintessence 
of simplicity and good taste. For, after all, 
a dinner in its diurnal regularity is the most 
perennial of delights. Bulwer Lytton, in 
" Pelham," says :— 

" A buried friend may be replaced, a lost 
mistress renewed, a slandered character be 
recovered, even a broken constitution re- 
stored ; but a dinner once lost is irremediable ; 
that day is for ever departed; an appetite 
once thrown away can never, till the cruel 
prolixity of the gastric agent is over, be re- 
gained. 11 y a tant de mattresses (says the 
admirable Corneille), il n'y a qu'un diner" 

Speaking of the close of the Tudor period, 
William Harrison, a contemporary historian, 
writes : — 

" I might here talke somewhat of the 
great silence that is used at the tables of the 
honourable and wiser sorte generallie over 
all the realme (albeit that too much deserveth 
no commendation, for it belongeth to guests 
to be neither muti nor loquaces) likewise the 
moderate eating and drinking that is dailie 
seene, and finallie of the regard that each 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE 109 

hath to keepe himselfe from note of surfetting 
and drunkenesse (for which cause salt meat, 
except beefe, bacon, and porke, are not anie 
whit esteemed, and yet these three may be 
much powdered) ; but as in the rehearsal 
thereof 1 should commend the nobleman, 
merchant, and frugall artificer, so I could not 
cleare the meaner sort of husbandman of 
verie much hobbling (except it be here and 
there some odd yeoman) with whom he is 
thought to be merriest that talketh of most 
ribaldrie. ..." 

Very similar were the precepts taught to 
our remoter forefathers. In the "Accom- 
plish'd Lady Rich's Closet of Rareties, or 
Ingenious Gentlewoman's Delightful Com- 
panion " (1653) ladies are told when carving 
at their own table to " distribute the best 
pieces first, and it will appear very comely 
and decent to use a fork." The lady is also 
requested to sit at table "with a straight 
body," and " even though she were an aunt" to 
refrain from resting her elbows upon the 
table. She must not " by ravenous gesture 
display a voracious appetite," and if " she 
talked with her mouth full, or smacked her 



no THE GREEDY BOOK 

lips like a pig, or swallowed spoon meat so 
hot that tears came to her eyes, she would be 
taken for an underbred person, even if she 
were really an Earl's daughter." But folk 
were almost exaggeratedly delicate in those 
days. It is related by the worthy Dr. 
Walker in his " Sufferings of the Clergy " 
that a pious parish priest was ejected from 
his cure by the Commonwealth Puritans 
because he was formally accused of " eating 
custard scandalously." But the etiquette of 
the table dates back to the very earliest ages. 
Of the five hundred and sixty-five Chinese 
books on Behaviour, catalogued by a learned 
mandarin, no fewer than three hundred and 
sixty-one refer directly to the ceremonial 
of the Chinese dinner-table. It is remark- 
able too that among the Sybarites it was 
customary to invite ladies to dinner a year 
beforehand, ostensibly to give them time to 
beautify themselves. 

In the year 1557 one Seager published his 
" Schoole of Vertue, a booke of good Nour- 
ture for Children," wherein the following 
instructions are set forth in rhyme. 



MRS. GRASSE AND HER HARE iii 

When thy parentes downe to the table shall syt, 

In place be ready for the purpose most fyt ; 

With sober countenance, lookynge them in the face, 

Thy hands holding up, thus begin Grace ; 

" Geve thankes to God with one accorde 

For that shall be set on this borde," 

And be not careful what to eate. 

To eche thynge lyvynge the Lord sends meate ; 

For foode he wyll not se you peryshe. 

But wyll you fede, foster and cheryshe ; 

Take well in worth what he hath sent 

At thys time be therwith content 

Praysinge God ! 
So treatablie speakynge as possibly thou can. 
That the hearers thereof may thee understan, 
Grace beynge said, low cursie make thou, 
Sayinge "much good may it do you." 

Finally, the following epitaph on a gour- 
mand, written by an unknown poet, seems 
to sum up the true inwardness of the gas- 
tronomic ideal : — 

Ci-git un gourmand insigne 
Dont I'exercice le plus digne 
Fut de manger a tout propos. 
Se voyant reduit a I'extreme, 
II aurait mange la mort meme ; 
Mais il n'y trouva que des os. 




" I hope you'll have all you're thinkin' you're 
havin' an' more too,— but less if you'd like it." 

The Lunatic Lady in 
Frank Stockton's *' Rudder Grange." 



According to the old Greek authorities, the 
original Seven Sages of the kitchen were : 
Agris of Rhodes, who first taught the bone 
method of dressing fish ; Nereus of Corinth, 
who made the conger a dish for the gods ; 
Orion, who invented white sauce ; Chariades, 
who achieved yellow sauce ; Lampriadas, 
who discovered brown sauce ; Atlantus, who 
made the most perfect restorative ; and 
Euthynus, who cooked vegetables so ex- 
quisitely that he was named Lentillus. 
These several gentlemen, combined into 



112 



MENUS 113 

one, would not be all too learned in the 
niceties of gastronomy to be able to put 
together a modern dinner menu. Nowadays 
we want something more than mere quantity. 
The Gargantuan repasts of our forefathers 
are not for us. In those days, maybe (or 
perhaps not), unlimited exercise, hunting, 
and the like made these gross meals com- 
paratively digestible ; but we live in more 
delicate times, and want our viands fewer in 
number and more carefully cooked, with less 
added flavour and more of their own natural 
juices. 

It is very true that one-half of the world 
does not know how the other half dines. 
We follow one another in sheep-like fashion 
round the few better-known restaurants, 
eating the same dinners, drinking the 
same wines, and seeing the same people 
week after week, in a dull monotony of 
sameness. 

And yet there are a few quite nice, re- 
spectable, meetable sort of folk, who, with 
the cosmopolitan habit strong upon them, 
know their London well enough to be able 
to dine every night in a diiferent country, 



114 THE GREEDY BOOK 

and remain all the time within a shilling 
cab-fare of Piccadilly. 

How is it done, you will ask ? It is 
really very simple. 

Say you want a French dinner, light, 
delicate, and appetizing, go to Kettner, in 
Church Street, Soho, or to Dieudonn6, in 
Ryder Street, and you will find un petit diner 
tres-fin, as good as you will obtain anywhere 
in Paris. If you patronize the former very 
old and very quaint establishment, ask to 
look over the kitchens ; they are as neat and 
clean as those in a painting by an old Dutch 
master. As to the menu, you cannot do 
better than leave yourself in the hands of 
the mattre d'Mtel. 

If you are inclined to dine a PItalienne, 
go to Pagani's, in Great Portland Street, 
and order Minestrone ; S6le h la Pagani; Pollio 
alia Contrabandista^ and macaroni ; take plenty 
of Parmesan cheese with everything, and 
imagine yourself in Florence. Do not for- 
get to drink the special Lacrima Christi, 
and inspect the " autograph-room " on the 
second floor. 

Again, suppose you desire to spend a 



MENUS 115 

Teutonic evening and regale yourself on 
German delicacies. Hie then to the old 
Gambrinus, in Regent Street, run by the 
excellent Oddenino of the Imperial. Call 
the Ober Kellner and bestell yourself Fleisch 
Bruhe, Karpfe in Bier, Kalbskotktte mit Celeri 
salat, and Dampfnudeln. As the American 
critic remarked : " If you like that sort of 
thing that's just the sort of thing you'll 
like." 

I have lunched Turkishly in the City off 
Kabobs, kid stuffed with pistachio, and most 
excellent rice-milk and cinnamon. There 
used to be a Spanish restaurant in Soho, 
where they gave you Escudella, Estofado, and 
the world-renowned Gaspacho ; but I rather 
think that this place came to an untimely 
end, owing to lack of patronage. Many 
Russian dishes, such as Bortsch, Blinis, Koul- 
biac, and Shtshi, are to be met with on the 
ordinary menus of the best restaurants ; 
and the Swedish Smorgasbord, or exaggerated 
Zakouska of the Russians, is occasionally put 
before one as hors d'csuvre a la Suedoise, which 
is, of course, quite wrong, because the real 
thing ought to be eaten standing up at a 



ii6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

side-table, and not sitting down at the dinner- 
table. However, these are the necessary 
tributes to convention. 

" CEufs a la coque ! Of course not ! I 
want hens' eggs, ordinary barn - door 
fowls'. What silly people these foreigners 
are ! " 

The average Englishman travelling abroad 
has really not got much beyond that stage 
of insular and ignorant prejudice. But 
why should he go abroad at all, when here 
in his native London he can, if he so desires, 
get a dinner cooked after (sometimes very 
much after) the fashion of almost any 
country in the world ? 

A dining tour in London, covering the 
cuisines of a score of different nationalities, 
is not difficult, and, moreover, it is vastly 
instructing. Properly approached, the cooks 
will be found to be only too glad to show 
what they can do in serving dishes of their 
own homeland. They appreciate the com- 
pliment of being asked to illustrate their 
national bill of fare, and, as practically every- 
thing can be procured in London, it is an 
interesting experiment to spend ten days in 



MENUS 117 

dining in foreign countries — and going 
home to one's own bed every night. 

Do you wish to cross that ridiculously 
disappointing ocean called the Atlantic and 
try an American dinner ? Come with me 
to the Criterion and instruct the American 
chef to prepare the dinner on the lines 
shown below : — 

Chicken Okra. Clam Broth. 

Salt Cod and Hash. Oyster Fritters. 

Mixed Turkey and Corn. 

StufFed Red Peppers. 

Terrapin Maryland. Chipped Beef. 

Scalloped Sweet Potatoes. Cold Slaw. 

Graham Pudding. 

New England Indian Pudding. 

Temperance Punch. 

This programme calls for little explana- 
tion. The okra cooked with the chicken 
gives it a peculiar and quite delicious 
flavour. The clam is a dulcet combin- 
ation of the oyster, the mussel, and the 
scallop. 

One of the most valuable products of the 
United States (gastronomically speaking), 
the terrapin must be eaten to be believed. 



ii8 THE GREEDY BOOK 

It must also be specially imported. It is a 
species of turtle — but even more so — and 
quite exquisite in its subtlety. New England 
Indian pudding, according to the recipe of 
Mrs. Henry W. Blair, wife of the now or 
former Senator for New Hampshire, is com- 
pounded as follows : — 

Two quarts of milk, one cup of meal, one cup 
of molasses, half a cup of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoon of cinnamon or ginger, two 
eggs. Heat one quart of milk, milk-warm, then 
slowly stir in the meal, and keep stirring gently 
until it thickens, but does not quite boil. Remove 
from the stove and add the molasses, sugar, salt, 
and spice. Then beat the eggs well and stir them 
in. Pour into the pudding-dish, remove the mixing- 
spoon, and turn the second quart of milk in. Send 
immediately to the oven without mixing, and cook 
steadily for five hours. 

There are a dozen Chinese restaurants in 
London, but they are in the East — the very 
far East — and you must make paradoxically 
for the West India Dock Road and then 
inquire of a policeman — who probably will 
not know. This Chinese menu given is a 
typical one. 



MENUS 119 

MENU 

Bow Ha Mai. (Boiled Prawns in Oil.) 
Chow Chop Sucy. (Bits of Pork Chops.) 

Ham ob Dan. 

(Preserved Eggs with Ducks' Gizzards.) 

I Ob Gan Bow Vo Toway. 

(Ducks' Livers and Boiled Ham.) 

Chow Ju Aw. (Boiled Pork.) 

Bow Ny Gwei. (Cuttle Fish.) 

Yen Wo Gong. 

(Pigeon Eggs and Birds' Nest Soup.) 

Bow Hai. (Boiled Crabs.) 

Yuen Tsyai. (Rice Cakes.) 

Bow Ob. (Duck Tongues and Mushrooms.) 

Ju Tow Ny Gow. 

(Fried Roofs of the Mouths of Pigs.) 

Chow ob Jun. (Ducks' Feet.) 

Lein Chi Gong. (Lily-seed Soup.) 

Hong Yin Gong. (Almond Soup.) 

Dein Som. (Sweetmeats.) 

Yueh Biung. (Mincemeat.) 

Gwoy Zoo. (Fruits.) 

Kwoh Zuh. (Seeds.) 

Cha Sam Soo. (Tea and Rice Whisky.) 

From China to Japan is not a far cry, but 
I fear you cannot dine Japanesily in the 
East ; you must come West, and even then 



120 THE GREEDY BOOK 

engage a special cook from the Legation or 

the Japanese Club. Still it is to be done, 

and this menu gives a series of titbits which 

are in themselves most appetizing. You 

may feel inclined afterwards to go elsewhere 

and eat a chop, but that is not the fault of 

the Japanese cuisine, but of your own large 

appetite. 

MENU 

Luimano. (Fish Soup.) 

Shira. (Bean Soup.) 

Ohira. (Vegetable Soup.) 

Sashimi. (Raw Sliced Fish.) 

Nizakana. (Boiled Fish.) 

Teriyaki. (Roast Fish.) 

Shiwoyaki. (Roast Fish.) 

Muchitori. (Vegetables.) 

Umani. (Fish and Vegetables.) 

Trubonomoni. (Vegetables.) 

Gozen. (Rice.) 

Tsukemono. (Pickles.) 

Shoyu. (Sauce.) 

Saki. 

In Scandinavian restaurants, which are 
to be found in the neighbourhood of the 
docks, where Danes, Swedes, and Norwegian 
sailors mostly congregate, the food is quite 



MENUS 121 

excellent. Simple, well cooked, and very 
toothsome. The Swedish menu which I 
have given is not, of course, the sort of 
dinner that a Dalarne peasant would get, 
but the sort of thing that, if you give 
proper notice, can be prepared for you by a 
knowledgeable Scandinavian cook. 

MENU 

Kraftor. (Crayfish.) 

Korvel Soppa. (Chervil Soup.) 

Kokt Halmstad Lax. (Boiled Salmon.) 

Stekt Sjotunga. (Roasted Soles.) 

Kalf brass Arter. 

(Stewed Veal and Peas.) 

Brytbonor. (Broad Beans.) 

Farska Carotter. (Fresh Carrots.) 

Kyckling. (Chicken.) 

Ungorre. 

Tomatsallad. 

Blandad Fruvt. (Fruit Salad.) 

Jordgubbar. (Strawberries.) 

Glacemarenger. (Ice Pudding.) 

For those who do not object to oil and 
garlic there is much that is attractive in the 
Spanish cuisine. There is only one place — 
as yet — in London where a real Spanish 



122 THE GREEDY BOOK 

dinner is to be had, and then it must be 
specially ordered ; but there are several 
Spanish chefs who, on persuasion, can be 
bribed to cook a dinner on the lines indi- 
cated. 

MENU 

Entremeses variados. (Hors d'oeuvre.) 

Sopa. (Soup.) 

Ostras a la Espanola. (Oysters.) 

Pescado Chambord. (Fish.) 

Pichones a la Provenzal. 

Jamon y Pavo con Jalea de Grosellas. 

(Ham and Gooseberry Jelly.) 

Salomillo de ternera con trufas. 

Ensalada. (Salad.) 

Esparragos. (Asparagus.) 

Quesos Variados. (Sweets.) 

The Italian style of cookery must not be 
judged by the examples of it in the thou- 
sands of cheap restaurants scattered through- 
out London. As a matter of fact they are 
mostly run by Swiss, either French-Swiss, 
German-Swiss, Italian- Swiss,, or Swiss-Swiss. 
The real Italian style of feeding is quite 
excellent, and at most of the best West 
End restaurants they have at least one 



MENUS 123 

Italian cook, who, if the dinner be intelli- 
gently ordered, will be only too delighted 
to show his skill. 

MENU 

Antipasto. 

Vermicelli al Brodo. 

Minestrone alia Milanaise. 

Rombo, salsa Olandese. 

Gnocchi alia Piemontese. 

MedaglioHe di Manso all' Italiana. 

Patate Novelle. 

Anitra arrosto. 

Insalata. 

Pere al Nebiolo. 

Gelato alia Vaniglia. 

There is an Indian restaurant in Stafford 
Street which appeals to all Anglo-Indians — ■ 
and to many others who appreciate a real 
curry, either dry or wet, Madras, Ceylon, 
Bombay, or any other style. The menu as 
follows can be cooked to perfection, and it is 
quite quaint to be greeted by white-robed, 
blue-turbaned attendants with a polite 
" Salaam, sahib ! " They make good waiters, 
too ; silent, quick, and deft. 



124 THE GREEDY BOOK 

MENU 

Bhurta. (Hors d'ceuvre.) 

Shorwa. (Soup.) 

Muchee Salna. (Fish Curry.) 

Hulvan Kabbab. (Lamb Cutlets.) 

Teeter Fallow. (Partridge PilafF.) 

Subzie Chichkey. (Vegetable Curry.) 

Mithau. (Sweets.) 

Meva. (Fruit.) 

Kava. (CofFee.) 

Where so many are good it would be in- 
vidious to say which is the best German 
restaurant in London, and it would also be 
a gross mistake to imagine that a German 
dinner is all sauerkraut and sausage. On 
the contrary, good German cookery (whether 
north or south) is as good as in any other 
part of Europe, and in some respects better. 
It can be sampled in several German restaur- 
ants in London. I would advise all visitors 
at a German restaurant to try the Prinz 
Ptlckler, an ice-pudding, which may be 
singled out as being especially worthy of 
imitation. 

About French cookery there is nothing new 
to be said, because every one knows — or 



MENUS 125 

ought to know — that when it is good it is 
very good indeed, and when it is bad — it is 
horrid. In London it is not difficult to 
obtain examples both of the good and the 
horrid French styles. The horrid will not 
be needed twice ! The real cuisine bour- 
geoise, which does not attempt to dis- 
guise the true flavour of the meats with 
unholy sauces, is nearly the very best in 
the world. 

Last, but not least, of all, in all probability 
best of all, is a real English menu, and it is 
really difficult to say where it may best be 
ordered, for the maitre tThttel of a big 
restaurant looks askance at a bill of fare 
without one single French word in it, not 
even an a la. 

A dear lady whose wit was better than 
her French pronunciation once said at a 
little dinner, " It is not so much the menu 
that matters, as the men you sit next 
to." And really the programme is not by 
any means as important as the cooking 
thereof. 

Old-fashioned Christmas cookery was, no 
doubt, of a heavier and more serious nature 



126 THE GREEDY BOOK 

than ours of to-day, although the compound- 
ing of the historic plum-pudding seems to 
have been much the same. Here is the 
recipe of Mr. Richard Briggs, " many years 
cook at the Globe Tavern, the White Hart, 
and now at the Temple Coffee House." It 
appears in his " English Art of Cookery," 
published in 1788 : — 

Take a pound of flour, and mix it into batter 
with half a pint of milk ; beat up the yolks of 
eight and the whites of four eggs, a pound of beef 
suet shred fine, a pound of raisins picked, a pound 
of currants, washed and picked, half a. nutmeg 
grated, a teaspoonful of beaten ginger, a little 
moist sugar, a glass of brandy, and a little lemon- 
peel shred fine. Mix it well together, tie it up in 
a cloth, and boil it four hours. When it is done, 
turn it out into a dish, and garnish with powder 
sugar, with melted butter, sweet wine and sugar, 
mixed in a boat. 

This is a curious recipe, which, I think, 
might work out very well. My copy of this 
old book bears the following quaint inscrip- 
tion on the fly-leaf: "The gift of Andrew 
Newton, Esquire, to the Dean and Chapter 
of Lichfield for the use of the Library of that 



MENUS 127 

Cathedral." What can the Dean and Chapter 
have wanted with a cookery book ? 

" You can't please everybody," as the old 
fisherman remarked to the grumbling angler 
who brought up a red-herring at the end of 
his line, and there are doubtless some — 
many, maybe — who prefer a less seasonable 
dinner than the stereotyped Christmas meal. 
For such this dainty and simple menu is 
humbly suggested : — 

Potage poule au pot Henri IV. 

Merlans a la Bretonne. 

Filet de Bosuf a la Proven^ale. 

Chapons du Mans rotis. 

Ragout de trufFes. 

Fonds d'Artichauts demi-glace. 

Bombe Chantilly. 

As a matter of fact, this was the dinner 
given a short while ago in Paris by the 
Sociite des Amis des Livres, who know as much 
about cookery as they do about bookery. It 
is worthy of record for its simplicity and 
completeness. 

For those who like to be thoroughly con- 
ventional, and yet at the same time to let 
sweet reasonableness attend their feasts, let 



128 THE GREEDY BOOK 

me recommend a Christmas dinner fashioned 
on somewhat the following lines : — 

Consomme with Italian paste. 

Oyster soup. 

Turbot, Hollandaise sauce with capers. 

Brill and Tartare sauce. 

Turkey stuffed with chestnuts or fresh truffles. 

Fillet of beef, horse-radish sauce. 

Souffle of fowl. 

Westphalian goose breast with winter spinach. 

Stewed celery. 

Plum pudding, brandy sauce. 

Mince pies. 

Chartreuse of oranges. 

Welsh rabbit. 

Devilled biscuit. 

This is a special Christmas dinner pre- 
pared by the late Sir Henry Thompson, 
whose views on food and feeding are well 
known. It is most certainly a very happy 
combination of the necessities and the deli- 
cacies of the season, and as such needs no 
further recommendation. It is perhaps es- 
pecially applicable to country-house parties, 
where both sexes are wont to have a pretty 
appetite. 

" Science can analyse a pork chop, and 



MENUS 129 

say how much of it is phosphorus and how 
much is protein, but science cannot analyse 
any man's wish for a pork chop, and say 
how much of it is hunger, how much 
nervous fancy, how much a haunting love 
of the beautiful. The man's desire for the 
pork chop remains literally as mystical and 
ethereal as his desire for heaven." Now, 
who wrote that ingenuous passage .'' Je 
vous le donne en trots. Charles Lamb } No. 
G. A, Sala .? No. Mr. Lecky .? Certainly 
not ! It is by that inimitable humorist, 
G. K. Chesterton, And it's quite true. 

There is a most delectable little part of 
the turkey which the French euphoniously 
call le sot Vy laisse. Grimod de la Reynifere, 
the celebrated gourmet, was wont to say that 
it was the most exquisite morsel of flesh in 
the world. 

Travelling one day some miles from his 
country-seat, he pulled up at a roadside inn 
for dinner. The host regretted that he had 
nothing to offer the stranger. " But," said 
the latter, "I see five turkeys hanging up 
there. Why not give me one of them ? " 
The innkeeper was sorry, but they were all 



I30 THE GREEDY BOOK 

ordered by a gentleman staying in the house. 
" Surely he cannot want them all himself. 
Ask him to permit me to share his meal." 
Again the innkeeper had to refuse. The 
gentleman in question was very particular. 
He only ate one tiny little piece from each 
bird — le sot Vy laisse, in fact. More anxious 
than ever to know who this rival gourmet 
was who had the same tastes as himself, 
de la Reyni^re insisted on making his 
acquaintance. He found it was his own 
son. 

This is the menu of the Queen's Guard 
Dinner, St. James's Palace, for Friday, 
23 March, 1855. Considering that it is 
only fifty years old, and therefore well 
within the memory of many living men, it 
makes curiously quaint reading. 

MENU 

Les Huitres. 

Potage a la Crecy aux croutons. 

Potage de Macaroni au consomme. 

La Merluche sauce aux ceufs. 

Les truites grillees a la Tartare. 

Saddle of Mutton. 
Les Poulets garnis d'une langue. 



MENUS 131 

Les Cotelettes de mouton a la Soubise. 

Le vol au vent aux ecrevisses. 

Les Kromeskys de ris de veau. 

Les filets de boeuf piques sauce poivrade. 

Les pigeons and la pintade piquee. 

Les Pommes au riz. 

Les fondus en caisses. 

La gelee au noyeau. 

LeB meringues a la Chantilly. 

Les Epinards au jus. 

La moelle aux croutons. 

Such a deal of fine, confused feeding 
would be deemed vulgar and ostentatious 
to-day. The dinner could not have been 
served and eaten in less than a couple of 
hours, and there is an appalling ponder- 
osity of substantial which must have 
tried the mid-Victorian digestion to the 
uttermost. 

In pleasing contrast to the foregoing, 
I will quote a charming little dinner given 
in Paris by a hostess who understands the 
art of menu -fashioning in the highest 
degree. 



132 THE GREEDY BOOK 



MENU 

Huitres de Marennes. 

Potage Bonne Femme. 

Filets de Soles Joinville. 

Sella d'agneau bouquetiere. 

Salmis de becasses aux trufFes. 

Foie gras a la SouwarofF. 

Poulardes a la Parisienne. 

Cosurs de laitues a la Russe. 

Pointes d'asperges a la creme. 

Glace Lavalliere. 

GaufFrettes. 

Few people know why an extra thick fillet 
of beef is called a Chateaubriand, and fewer 
still know how it ought to be cooked. You 
may ask all the chefs in town, and it is 
about thirty-three to one against your getting 
any historically precise information on the 
subject. 

The story of the matter is briefly this. 
The dish was first cooked in the year 1802 
at Champeaux Restaurant, in the Place de 
la Bourse. It was just at the period when 
Chateaubriand published his most brilliant 



MENUS 133 

work, " Le G6nie du Christianisme." " The 
profane wits of the kitchen " thought that 
a good steak sent to the fire between two 
malefactor steaks \yas a fair parody of the 
title of the book. The fillet or steak was 
cut so thick that by the ordinary method 
of cooking it might be burned on the 
surface whilst quite raw inside, and there- 
fore — although the original and authentic 
method is ignored nowadays — it was put 
upon the fire between two other slices of 
beef, which, if burned, could be thrown 
away. Thus only is the Chateaubriand 
properly cooked. 

The title has really nothing to do with 
the garnishing or the sauce, although the 
average maitre d'hbtel will insist otherwise. 
Nevertheless the true story is as above. 
Chateaubriand was French Ambassador at 
the Court of St. James in 1822. 

It may be of interest to put on record 
here His Majesty the King's Derby Day 
dinner at Buckingham Palace to the members 
of the Jockey Club. Here it is : — 



134 THE GREEDY BOOK 

MENU 

Tortue Claire. 

Creme de Pois Comtesse. 

Whitebait au Nature! et a la Diable. 

Supremes de Truites a la Valenciennes. 

Zephires de Cailles a la Montagne. 

Handles de Venaison, Sauce Aigredoux. 

Selle d'Agneau froide a la Ni9oise. 

Pommes de Terre a la Jaucourt. 

Ortolans Rotis. 

Poussins sur Canapes. 

Salade de Cceurs de Romaines. 

Asperges d'Argenteuil, Sauce Mousseline. 

Peches a la Reine Alexandra. 

Patisseries a la Parisienne. 

Cassolettes a la Jockey Club. 

Petites Glaces Printanieres. 

Friandises. 

Dessert. 

From trustworthy accounts I am con- 
strained to believe that royal banquets are 
like many other mundane things. They 
look well, they read well, possibly they taste 
well, but there is inevitably the sub-acid 
flavour of Dead Sea apples, and the thought- 
ful observer may echo Talleyrand's remark 




LES REVKS U'UN GOURMAND 
(A. B. L. Griniud tlv la Ruynicre inv. iSoS) 

[To face page 135 



MENUS 135 

that whenever he perused a royal menu 
his thoughts involuntarily turned to pot- 
au-feu. 

Although some kings (and queens too) 
were undoubtedly valiant trenchermen (and 
women), yet it is an ascertained fact that the 
more luxury appears on the bill of fare, the 
more frugal is the repast of majesty. The 
third Napoleon, towards the end of his 
reign, was forced to be so abstemious that, 
when the most tempting plats jostled one 
another on his. table, he found himself 
obliged to dine off a cutlet and a cup 
of rice. 

Nowadays it is said that guests at a royal 
banquet refuse the most artistic creations, 
and ask boldly for a cut of mutton. 

However this may be, it can be taken for 
granted that royal banquets are much like 
other meals in so far as anticipation, appe- 
tite, realization, and digestion are concerned. 
The great Car^me resigned his position as 
Maitre de Bouche to George IV, after only 
a few weeks' service, and at an honorarium 
of one thousand guineas a year (guineas, 
mark you, there speaks the artist !), because 



136 THE GREEDY BOOK 

His Majesty showed no appreciation of his 
finest efforts, but was continually asking for 
boiled beef. 

Nevertheless, the royal cooks always rise 
to the occasion, as the following interesting 
document will show. The chef at Windsor 
in 1858 was M. Pierre Mouret. This 
is the menu of the wedding dinner of the 
(then) Crown Prince of Prussia, father of 
the present Kaiser, to our own Princess 
Royal, given by Queen Victoria at Windsor 
Castle on 18 January, 1858. 

MENU 

Her Majesty's Dinner 

Potages. 

A la Tortue. A la Jardiniere. 

Creme de riz a la Reine. 

Poissms. 

Saumons bouillis. Turbots bouillis. 

Filets de sole frits. 

Releves. 

Pieces de Bceuf braisees, garnies de legumes. 

Chapons truffes a la Perigueux. 



MENUS 137 

Entrees. 

Kromeskis de Crevettes. 

Ris de Veau piques a la Macedoine. 

Timbales de Macaroni a la Milanaise. 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la puree de haricots. 

Petites Croustades a la puree de volaille. 

Cotelettes de Poulets a la Tartare, 

Perdreaux a la financiere. 

Quenelles de Lievre garnies d'escalopes. 

Contre-jlancs. 
Poulets a la royale. 

R6ts. 
Becasses. . Poulardes. 

Releves. 

Gateaux de Compiegne. Poires au riz. 
Puddings de gingembre. 

Entremets. 

Epinards au veloute. CEufs brouilles aux truffes. 

Salade de Volaille. Aspic de Galantine. 

Biscuits et plombiere. 

Dauphines a la fleur d'orange. 

Gelee de Vanille. Blanc-manger rubatie. 

Buffet. 

Sirloins of Beef. Saddles of Mutton. 

Haunches of Venison. 



138 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Among the cleverest and most spirituel of 
menus ^occasion is that of a French-Italian 
dejeuner at the Carlton Hotel, composed, 
arranged, and designed by M. Escoffier. 

MENU 
L'Italie et la France a Table 

F ritot d'oeufs a la Verd I 

R ouget de roche a la Loube T 
A mourettes a'agneau a la Tosc A 
N onnettes de poulet Agnes Sore L 
C epes a la Rossin I 

E ugenie creme Italienn E 

The double acrostic is most skilfully intro- 
duced, and the lunch, as such, is quite a 
little work of art. 

In the columns of the " Academy," some 
little while ago, an ingenious contributor 
elaborated a menu without the use of a 
single French word. It is doubtful, how- 
ever, whether it will ever come into the 
realms of practical gastronomic usage. It 
ran thus : — 



MENUS 



139 



MENU 

(Old style, obsolete) 

Hors d'oeuvres. 

Pot au Feu. 

Puree de petits pois. 

Bouchees aux Huitres. 

Chaud-froid de Saumon. 

Vol-au-vent de Volaille. 

Petits Filets mignons a la 

Maitre d'Hotel. 
Noix de Veau a la 

•Jardiniere. 

Pommes de terre sautees. 
Asperges en branches : 

Sauce Mousseline. 
Timbales de Fruits. 
Creme renversee. 
Petits Souffles de Foie 

gras. 



BILL OF FARE 

(New style) 

Raw Bits. 
Pot on the Fire. 
Mash of Little Peas. 
Mouthfuls of Oysters. 
Hot-cold of Salmon. 
Fowl Fly-to-Wind. 
"Ducksy" little Fillets 

to the Butler. 
Nut of Veal in the way 

of the Gardener's 

wife. 
Jumped Potatoes. 
Asparagus in branches; 

Muslin Sauce. 
Mugs of Fruit. 
Turned-up Cream. 
Little Blow-outs of fat 

Liver. 



Such a meal as this, to be thoroughly 
appreciated, would no doubt have to be pre- 
pared by a Chief or a Blue Cord. 

A purely English dinner, however, is not 
so difficult to describe in plain straight- 
forward language. Such a one, for instance,. 



HO THE GREEDY BOOK 

as the Festival Dinner of the Royal Society 
of St. George, which ran thuswise : — 

Appetizers. 

Imperial " Clear " Soup. 

Boiled Hampshire Salmon and Cucumber. 

Thames Whitebait devilled. 

Norfolk Sweetbreads 

and Truffles. 

The Roast Beef of Old England 

(Devon Baron). 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

English New Potatoes and Beans. 

Royal Navy Iced Punch. 

Roast Buckinghamshire Duckling and 

Apple Sauce. 

Peas. Lettuce Salad. 

Colchester Asparagus. 

Braised Berkshire Ham. 

Trafalgar Pudding. 

Colonial Ice Pudding. 

Dessert. 

Coffee. 

The menu of a Japanese luncheon given 
by the Mikado at Tokio makes curious 
reading, although I am assured that its 
purely local features are assuaged by a 
leaven of European delicacies. 



MENUS 141 

MENU 

Suimono (Soup). 

Night Heron and Shimeji (a species of 

Champignon). 

Kuchitori (Hors d'CEuvres). 

Wild Duck. 

Awabi (Haliotis, etc). 

lashami (uncooked Fish). 

Tai, Kawatsukuri and Arai (two modes 

of preparing uncooked Fish). 

Sunomono (Mixed Salad). 

Iced Whale and Mustard Sauce. 

Yakimono (Entrees). 

Baked Ai Fish (chawaninushi Eel Soup). 

Fried Chicken and String Beans. 

Anago and Imo (a species of Eel and 

Potato). 

Rice Soup and Quail. 

Pickles. Cake. 

Fruit. 

A friend has sent me a curiosity from 
Havana in the shape of a menu, into the 
composition of every dish of which the 
banana entered in some shape or form. As 
a triumph of skill and ingenuity I respect 
the menu, but am thankful that I was not 



142 THE GREEDY BOOK 

invited to partake of the repast. Here 
it is. 

MENU 

Soupe a la Banane avec Croutons de Banane. 

Crepes de Banane avec Gelee de Banane. 

Poulets a I'Etuvee avec Bananes Ciselees. 

Poulets Rotis avec Bananes Dressees. 

Roti de Bceuf avec Gelee de Banane. 

Gateau a la Gelee de Banane. 

Galettes de Bananes. 

Gateau de Banane aux Fruits. 

Cafe de Banane. 



The subjoined menu is a quaint attempt 
to please adult lovers of " Alice in Wonder- 
land," and deserves notice in that it really 
does contain a number of references, more 
or less apt, to that perennially delightful 
work. 

MENU 

Hors d'oeuvres. 

HuitreSj Larmes Ameres. 

Snickersnacks. 

Potages. 

Manxomme. 

Jabberwock's-tail. 



MENUS 143 

Poisson. 
"Walrus a la Charpentier. 
Snark, sauce Boojumoise. 

Entrees. 

Momerath de lait. 

Tweedledum aux Tum-tumatoes 

Rati. 

Aloyau de Jabberwock. 

Sella de Gryphon. 

Volaille. 

Bandersnatch, sauce evitee. 

Jubjub saute. 

Salade: Feuilles de Tumtum tulgeuses. 

Entremets. 

Creme au Jour Frabjoise. 

Omelette Whifflee. 

Glace a la Duchesse. 

Savory. 
CEufs de Borogove Gimblees. 

The following menu is that of a dinner 
given in Paris by Prince L6on Galitzine, and 
deserves to be placed on record as an 
example of a real diner fin, elaborate, but 
not too elaborate, cleverly designed, and 
thoroughly well executed. 



144 THE GREEDY BOOK 

MENU 

Bisque d'ecrevisse et Exly frais a la Russe. 

Melon glace. Crevettes de Dieppe. 

Hareng frais de HoUande. 

Soles a la Marechale. 

Noisettes d'agneau avec creme d'Argenteuil. 

Foie gras a la Rossini. 

Quenelles d'esturgeon a la Joinville. 

Sorbets au Porto blanc. 

Granite grande fine Champagne. 

Canetons de Rouen flanques d'ortolans en 

brochettes. 

Chaudfroid de Paons en Bellevue. 

Flageolets nouveaux au beurre. 

Pois a la Fran^aise. 

Ecrevisses de la Meuse au vin de Saumur. 

Bombe Galitzine. 

Poires Cressanes. 

Dessert. 

This is really a rather noble dinner. 
Observe the dignity of the sturgeon and the 
peacock. There is very good precedent for 
the serving of the hors d'ceuvre after the 
soup. It is done at many of the best 
French tables. 

There are two or three interesting points 



MENUS 145 

about the following Savoy Hotel menu 
which are worth consideration. 

MENU DU DINER 

Hors d'CEuvres. 

Melon Cantaloup Rafraichi. 

Poule-au-Pot Henri IV. 

Creme Sante. 

Truite d'Ecosse a la Nantua. 

Filets de sole en Goujon. 

Cailles en Terrines aux petits pois. 

Selle de Pre-Sale a la Favorite. 

Haricots verts au Beurre. 

Mousse de Volaille en Bellevue. 

Caneton de Rouen a la Rouennaise. 

Salade Victoria. Aubergines Parisiennes. 

Bombe Pralinee. P^ches Cardinal. 

Canapes Pompadour. 

The poule-aU'pot Henri IV recalls, of 
course, one of the most charming kings in 
history, who wished that every one of his 
subjects might have a fowl in his pot every 
Sunday all the year round. The fillets of 
sole en goujon are a clever variation of the 
same thing en blanchailles to which one is 
somewhat accustomed. They are rather 
larger, but equally crisp and succulent. 
The cailles. en terrines, are very seasonable, 



146 THE GREEDY BOOK 

and contrast remarkably well with the 
following saddle of mutton. 

There has been much discussion lately in 
France as to the healthiness or otherwise of 
the hitherto justly esteemed and much-eaten 
Canard h la Rouennaise. Certain it is that 
some little while ago a few people became 
very ill after eating it; but, on the other 
hand, the preparation of the bird is so simple 
that there hardly seems room for anything 
deleterious. 

Anyhow, the matter has been set at rest 
once and for all by the appointment under 
the auspices of La Sociite Scientifique 
d' Hygiene Alimentaire et de T Alimentation 
Rationnelle de I'Homme (heavens, what a 
name !) of a committee which thoroughly 
tested and examined the question of the 
delinquent duck. This committee con- 
sisted of M. A. Dastre, membre de I'lnstitut ; 
M. Lapicque, maitre de Conferences a la 
Sorbonne, M. S. de Raczkowski, chemiste 
principal au Laboratoire Municipal, and M. E. 
Kohn-Abrest, du Laboratoire de Toxicologic. 
These eminent authorities were well able to 
give a definite and reassuring reply. 



MENUS 147 

Those who are interested in the duck 
question may remember a delightful little 
sketch by the brilliant Alfred Capus, entitled 
" Emile," in which a Canard a. la Rouennaise 
and a solemn maitre d'Mtel played prominent 
parts. 

The following menu of a ball supper 
which was served quite recently at a London 
dance is all that a self-respecting ball supper 
need be. It seems to me to be excellently 
designed and thought out, for it provides 
for all tastes and palates, and appeals to the 
debutante as well as the sapient middle-aged 
supper eater. 

MENU DU SOUPER 

Consomme de Volaille. 

Supreme Truite Alexandra. 

Medallions de Homard Moscovite. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau Princesse. 

Chaudfroid de Mauviettes Careme. 

Aspic de Pole Gras Lucullus. 

Cailles a la Jeannette. 

Galantine Volaille Perigourdine. 

Bosuf Braise a la Moderne. 

Poularde du Mans a I'Andalouse. 

Jambon d'York. 

Langue a I'Ecarlate. 



148 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Salade Imperiale. 

Gelee Orientale. Charlotte Souveraine. 

Creme Victoria. 

Macedoine de Fruits aux Liqueurs. 

Gateau Fedora. Patisserie Parisienne. 

Glaces Bouquetieres. Friandises. 

Dessert. 

We all know, in a vague sort of way, 
that the best, in fact the only real pate de 
foie gras comes from Strasburg. This suc- 
culent if somewhat dyspeptic dish claimed 
as inventor for a long time a certain Mathieu, 
chef in the Prince Bishop of Strasburg's 
household (Cardinal Rohan). But this is 
an error. The real originator was one Close, 
chef to the Mar^chal Saxe, who came to 
Strasburg in the train of his famous master 
and took up his permanent abode there, 
marrying Mathieu's widow. It was he and 
none other who started the goose-liver 
tureen business in a small shop in the 
Meisengasse, where, according to com- 
paratively recent reports, it is still carried 
on. His imitators, of course, are numberless, 
and some of them very good. 

This menu from the Carlton Hotel prac- 



MENUS 149 

tically explains itself. If it err at all, which 
is doubtful, it is on the right side, namely, 
that of lightness and digestibility : — 

Royal Natives, Caviar, Blinis. 

Stchi Germiny. 

Mousseline de Merlans aux Ecrevisses. 

Cailles au Nid. 

Selle de Chevreuil a I'Allemande. 

Haricots Verts. 

Volaille TrufFee. 

Salade. 

Asperges Vertes Sauce Hollandaise. 

Biscuit Gla^e aux Perles des Alpes. 

Dessert. 

The Blinis served with the Caviar is an- 
nexed from the Russian cuisine, and is a 
kind of light sponge or yeast mixture, 
technically known as a " savarin " without 
sugar, baked in small pans, and sent to table 
hot with a sauce of sour cream. Stchi, or 
Tschi, is also Russian. It is primarily an 
army soup, or broth, made of beef, slightly 
thickened with a brown roux and flavoured 
with sour cream. It i usually served with 
small, fried choux paste-balls. 

It is not usual to write the menu of a 
banquet in the language of ancient Rome, 



ISO THE GREEDY BOOK 

but it appears the practice survives in 
Bavaria. Witness the following in "Latin 

de Cuisine " : — 

Epulum 

paratum die Consecrationis 

A.R.D. Baronis de Ow 

Episcopi auxil. Ratisbonnensis in aula 

Episcopali. 

Sorbitio cum globulis jecoralibus et lucanicis, 

Jes ex linguis bovinis factum cum panificio. 

Caro bovina cum brassica capitata. 

Assum vitulinum cum lactuca. 

CofFea. 

Potabimus cerevisiam ex hordeo bavarico coctam 

in ofRcina cerevisiae Episcopali. 

Sit saluti ! 

This formidable-looking legend, on being 
translated, reads : — 

Banquet prepared on the day of the consecra- 
tion of the Right Reverend Baron von Ow, 
Suffragan Bishop of Regensburg in the 
episcopal palace. 

Soup with liver and sausage. 

Ox-tongue broth with bread. 

Beef and cabbage. 

Roast veal and lettuce. 

Coffee. 

We shall drink Bavarian barley beer 

brewed in the episcopal brewery. 

May it do us good ! 



MENUS 151 

It is not on record, I think, who the 
original inventor of picnics was ; nor does 
it much matter. There may be mention 
of them in Shakespeare, and certainly 
Nebuchadnezzar would seem to be one of 
the earliest picnickers in history ; but who- 
soever may first have suggested the un- 
packing of a heterogeneous collection of 
cold cates on a greensward, under a summer 
sun, must have had a good digestion, a 
pair of knees that bent both ways, and (it 
is to be hoped) a positive passion for wash- 
ing up. 

Anyhow, it behoves me to make one or 
two diffident suggestions as to how the 
usual monotony of the convivial basket 
may be varied. Take the conventional 
pigeon pie, for instance — a truly good thing 
in its way, but capable of improvement. 
Angel Pie, according to Mr. Gubbins, is an 
agreeable change, and his recipe in " Cakes 
and Ale " may very well be followed. Eliza 
Acton's pigeon pie is very good too ; and 
it is quite worth the trouble to note the 
directions carefully. 

But picnics need not be all pigeon pie. 



152 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Let me recommend a toothsome Chaudfroia 
de Foie'-gras en caisses, which is just round or 
oval-shaped slices of foie gras masked with 
white or fawn thaudfroid sauce, set in souffle 
cases, and decorated with slices of truffle. 
After the First, a Ballotine de Perdreau 
Souvaroff is a pleasant change. The dainty 
bird is stuffed with goose-liver farce and 
truffles, done up like galantine, and braised, 
pressed, and glazed. 

Although personally I am of those who 
prefer the unadulterated partridge, there are 
many quite worthy folk who do not, and 
for such I quote the above. Other suitable 
picnic dishes, rather out of the usual run, 
are Cuisses de Volatile Belle Alliance (or 
Waterloo, if you will have it so); Filets de 
Bceuf en Chaudfroid ; Pain de Volaille aux 
Truffles ; and Ris d'Agneau h VAmiral, which 
is lamb's sweetbread in oval slices, masked 
with white sauce, decorated with slices of 
truffles, and dressed on a vegetable aspic 
border, with salad in the centre. 

A new salad always adds lustre to the 
dullest picnic. Try this : Potatoes, cold, in 
slices, plentifully besprinkled with peas and 



MENUS 153 

a few broad beans. Or, again, red cabbage 
with cucumber. In either case the mixture 
must be carried separately in a bottle, and 
only poured out at the last moment ; then 
" fatigue " the salad thoroughly, and see that 
all the liquid is absorbed from the bottom 
of the bowl. The following picnic menu is 
put up by Fortnum and Mason in conve- 
nient baskets, and when unpacked may be 
guaranteed to assuage the cravings of the 
hungriest. 

MENU 

Saumon, Salade de Concombres. 

Homard a la Paxisienne. 

Chaudfroid de Mauviettes a la Chasseur. 

Poularde a I'lvoire. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Jambon d'York. 

Pressed Beef. Tongues. 

Salade Panachee de Haricots Verts et Tomates. 

Gateaux Parisiennes. 

Dessert. 

Caf6. 

Glaces Varices. 

In addition to all these nice things, the 
baskets contain the necessary materials for 



154 THE GREEDY BOOK 

tea, such as bread, butter, petits fours, cakes, 
and such-like. 

The following menu is one of a dinner at 
Prince's Restaurant, and calls for no special 
remark, save perhaps to emphasize the deft 
juxtaposition of the entree, roast, and bird, 
which lead up to one another, so to say, in a 
subtle succession of delicately contrasted 
flavours. 

MENU 

Hors d'cEUvre a la Parisienne. 

Potage Bortsch a la Czarine. 

Supreme de Saumon Creme d'anchois. 

Aiguillette de Volaille des Bacchantes. 

Noisette d'Agneau Edouard VII. 

Pommes Nouvelles a la Menthe. 

Becasse rotie a la Broche. 

Salad Mimosa. 

Salsifis a la Poulette. 

Bombe glacee. Diable Rose. 

Corbeille de Friandises. 

Canape Princesse. 

Dessert. 

Cafe. 

One of our French friends who came over 
here to enjoy r entente cordiale — and British 



MENUS 155 

hospitality — was returning to France with 
an English acquaintance. On landing at 
Dieppe, after rather a rough crossing, John 
Bull asked Jacques Bonhomme, " Well, did 
you lunch on board ? " " Non, mon ami" was 
the reply, " tout au contraire ! " 

One may always trust the cuisine at the 
Savoy. There is a thoroughness of concep- 
tion about every specially ordered dinner 
which bespeaks the eye, the hand, the brain 
of the master. Take the following menu, 
for example, which, charmingly printed on 
a graceful little silk Japanese fan, formed an 
exquisite meal of some originality, 

MENU 

Melon Cantaloup. Petite Marmite. 

Creme Portugaise. Truite a la Saatz. 

Whitebait Diable. 

Caille Bridget. Medallion de Behague a I'Estragon. 

Petits Pols a la Fran^aise. Pommes Savoyarde. 

Souffle de Jambon a la Hongroise. Neige au Kirsch. 

Caneton au Sang. 

Haricots verts et tomates en salade. 

Fonds d'artichauts a I'ltalienne. 

Framboises glacees a la Vanille. Friandises. 

Pailles de Parmesan. Corbeille de Fruits. 



156 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Note the graceful juxtaposition of the 
Hungarian ham and the Kirsch, followed by- 
duck and French beans. It is touches such 
as these which in their poetic elegance and 
subtlety force one to recognize what the 
high art of cookery really means. 

To whom hath it not fallen to take the 
female faddist in to dinner i* — I speak, of 
course, from the masculine point of view. 
The plethoric dame, for instance, who says, 
" Thank you, I only eat toast, and I prefer 
it very crisp " ; or the earnest spinster who 
talks for miles about proteids and other 
abominable scientific non-gastronomies ; or 
the materfamilias who laments the absence 
of Benger from the dinner-party menu ? 
Like the poor, such as these are always 
with us. 

There are fashions in these things, as in 
everything else. Now and again one comes 
across a real Fletcherite, who chews his or 
her food eighty-seven times and allows it to 
disappear by a slow process of gradual deg- 
lutition. Mr. Horace Fletcher himself is, 
I am given to understand, a man of irre- 
proachable morality, and the possessor, more- 



MENUS 157 

over, of a beautiful Palazzo on the Grand 
Canal at Venice ; but, whether for good 
or ill, he has introduced a deal of dullness 
into the modern dinner party. It is ob- 
viously impossible to keep up a ready flow 
of brilliant conversation when every mouth- 
ful has to be masticated unto seventy times 
seven times. Such a salutary procedure 
puts a damper on prandial discourse, and 
makes a dinner only one degree less lively 
than a funeral. It would seem preferable to 
suffer tortures of indigestion rather than act 
as a dinner-party wet-blanket. 

A former generation suffered from the 
Andrew Clark regime, and I can even re- 
member a dinner menu divided into halves, 
one of which was headed " Clarkists," and 
was confined to the dishes prescribed by that 
eminent medico, and the other half labelled 
" Just ordinary folk " — and it was much the 
better programme of the two. A little later 
one met the weird folk who produced from 
hidden recesses mysterious little silver boxes, 
from which they extracted little white pilules 
" to be taken between each course " — but 
1 have noticed that these people usually ate 



158 THE GREEDY BOOK 

a remarkably hearty dinner, despite, or 
perhaps because, of these same pilules. 

One comes across, too, the Stokerites, 
with their peculiar antipathies, the "Natural 
Feeders," the " Little Grangers," and the 
maigre tons les jours sort of folk. As for the 
vegetarians, there is little to be said for 
or against them. They are, of course, fully 
justified in their opinions, but they do give 
a lot of bother at an ordinary dinner party. 
I may be unfortunate in my vegetarian 
friends, but it always appears to me that 
after a time they seem to assimilate certain 
characteristics of the food they eat, and 
eventually become very like their favourite 
vegetables ; so much so that they might 
almost, be accused of cannibalism. Certain 
it is that I can spot a carrot-eating man by 
his hair, an onion-lover by his breath, and a 
Brussels-sprout devotee by his whiskers. 

Take it, however, by and large, the food 
faddist, be it a he or a she, is rarely a 
pleasant table-companion, and in these times 
of strenuous dining he, she, or it, is usually 
a poor conversationalist and a poorer critic ; 
wTiich is a pity. 



MENUS 159 

It is quite a mistake to imagine that a 
good dinner can aiFord to despise the ad- 
juncts of a well-decorated table. Nothing 
could be more fallacious. One's sense of 
taste should not alone be titillated. One's 
palate-gusto is distinctly enhanced by some- 
thing pleasant to look upon, by something 
artistic to accompany the mere mechanism 
of mastication, by a general sense of beauty 
and non-flamboyant restfulness. 

We have gone far in this direction during 
the past two or three decades. There are 
many happily still surviving among us who 
remember vividly, and not without a certain 
amount of awe, the vast erections which 
appeared on the dinner-tables of our for- 
bears. The silver branch candelabra, the 
epergnes, the great piles of fruit, the tower- 
ing " set-pieces," the bushy and umbrageous 
plants and flowers, the plates of mixed 
biscuits, and the various impossible dishes 
of confectionery which nobody was expected 
to eat. 

But all this has disappeared, and one is 
no longer obliged to talk to one's opposite 
neighbour through a jungle of horticulture. 



i6o THE GREEDY BOOK 

Flowers are best shown in low bowls, either 
china or silver, there are no useless im- 
pedimenta, the tiresome trails of smilax 
have long since been relegated to Peckham 
dinner-tables, and we have at last arrived at 
an era of plenty of elbow-room, discreet 
floral decoration, and a clean sweep of 
ridiculous encumbrances. 

Some hostesses, indeed, cultivate the 
Japanese grammar of the arrangement of 
flowers, which gives a particular and especial 
value to each leaf, branch, and stalk. Others 
again will have merely half a dozen blooms, 
all told, on the table, but each bloom perfect 
of its kind, and displayed to the best ad- 
vantage. High vases are as obsolete as the 
dodo, and people are gradually becoming 
alive to the fact that four or five exquisite 
roses in a big flat Hawthorn dish are more 
decorative than all the miserable little white 
china cupids in Regent Street. 

The choice of odours, too, is an impor- 
tant consideration. No hostess with any 
consideration for the olfactory nerves of 
her guests would put strongly perfumed 
flowers on the dinner-table. They would 



MENUS i6i 

only destroy the flavour of the cates, and 
cause annoyance rather than pleasure. Even 
the lovely syringa, which a good lady once 
described as " a respectable gardenia," is too 
strong, and at the most a purely neutral 
scent is permissible. 

In the height of summer I have met a 
single water-lily floating in a copper dish 
in the middle of the table; the lily was so 
perfect in itself that any other decoration 
would have seemed superfluous and im- 
pertinent. The stalks of flowers seen 
through clear glass are as beautiful as the 
blooms, and an arrangement of green leaves 
only, with no flower at all, is, if rightly under- 
stood and designed, very difficult to beat. 

Only "recently, dining in an artist's studio, 
I was delighted with a few sprays of medlar 
blossom on the table, and a mass of hydran- 
gea on the sideboard, immediately below a 
shelf of old pewter. The harmony was 
wonderfully beautiful. Such touches of 
taste entirely alter the character of a dinner, 
and from a mere feeding party it becomes 
an artistic pleasure. For, after all, the mere 
act of eating is not in itself beautiful. 



1 62 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Reverting to the food-faddist, there are 
sortie who, quite apart from doctors' reasons, 
have the most peculiar likes and dislikes. 
Some never touch soup ; others positively 
like boiled veal ; and it is on record that 
Dr. Johnson poured lobster sauce over his 
plum-pudding. It is not easy to under- 
stand this extraordinary combination of the 
great lexicographer, but the story has good 
authority. 

Some folk, quite worthy folk too, like 
cold meat and pickles, even when abroad ; 
others make a point of drinking the wine 
of the country. It is told of the great 
Duke of Wellington that when journey- 
ing through France with Alava, in 1814, 
on being asked at what time they should 
start next day, he invariably replied "At 
daybreak." And to the question what they 
should have for dinner, he always an- 
swered, " Cold meat," " Je les at eu en 
horreur, h la fin" Alava declared, " ces deux 
mots-la — ' daybreak ' et ' cold meat.' " 

The menu of a good summer dinner is 
always interesting. Here is one which 
should amply satisfy the most fastidious. 



MENUS 163 

It was cooked by one of the best chefs in 
London, and seems to me to contain some 
particularly interesting features. 

MENU DU DINER 

Zakuska. 

Potage a la Dauphine. 

Puree d'asperges a la St. Georges. 

Filets de Sole Bagration. 

Saumon froid a la Doria. 

Ris de Veau en Caisses a la Perigueux. 

Petites Croustades Glaces a la Montglas. 

Selle de Mouton froid. 

Courges farcies. 

Cannetons Sautes. Sauce Bigarade. 

Salade de Choux Rouges. 

Mais a I'Americaine. 

Macedoine de Fruits. 

Bombe de Juillet. 

Glace de' Creme aux Truffes. 

Another hot-weather menu is a compara- 
tively simple luncheon, and is principally 
remarkable for the fact that it is entirely 
cold, from the prawns to the coffee. We 
have all of us, of course, had many cold 
lunches, racing, motoring, at Henley, or 
elsewhere, but as a rule these casual meals 
lack character and homogeneity ; they are 



1 64 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of a " chucked-together " sort of nature, 
and whilst serving a useful purpose of their 
own, can hardly be called perfect pictures of 
their kind. No such objection can, I think, 
be made to the subjoined. 

MENU DU DEJEUNER 

Crevettes Roses. 

Consomme en Gelee. 

Salade de Poisson. 

Truite froide. Sauce Remoulade. 

Filet de Bceuf aux Legumes Glaces. 

Poulet Proven^ale. 

Salade Miladi. 

Peches Daisy Miller. 

Coupe Jacques. 

Cafe Glace. 

The following little story from Mr. 
G. W. E. Russell's " Londoner's Logbook " 
has a delightful gastronomical moral, which 
might be adopted, with advantage, by many 
hosts of to-day : "'Come and dine at eight 
— pot-luck, you know. Don't dress.' That 
hospitable formula recalls a genial knight who 
dwelt in Berkeley Square, and, applying his 
whole mind to the subject of dinners, at- 
tained to high perfection in the art of giving 



MENUS- 165 

them. Two benevolent practices of his in- 
vention linger pleasantly in the memory. 
He caused each course to begin at a diiFerent 
point at the table, so that every guest in 
turn got the first chance at a dish. He 
dealt out the asparagus like cards, an equal 
number of pieces to each guest ; and if on 
completion of the deal he saw that any one 
had got smaller pieces than his neighbours, 
he used the residue to redress the inequality. 
Surely such are those actions of the just 
which smell sweet and blossom in the dust." 





" Tom, whom to-day no noise stirs, 
Lies buried in these cloisters ; 

If at the last trump 

He does not quickly jump ; 
Only cry ' Oysters ! ' " 

Epitaph on a Colchester Mans Grave 

If you have eaten an oyster at Colchester or 
Faversham, In August, fresh from the sea ; 
or a meltir j native at Milton, the best 
oyster in the world, in October ; a Helford 
native in Cornwall ; Whispered Pandores 
and Aberdours at Edinburgh, on the "Feast 
of Shells," one hundred for a shilling, drip- 
ping in Prestonpans sea-water; Carlingfords 
and Powldoodies, of Burran, at Dublin ; or 
even a Jersey oyster at St. Heliers, you 
know what an oyster should be. 

These are the words of wisdom, written 

i66 



OYSTERS 167 

some thirty years ago by Herbert Byng 
Hall, a gastronomic writer of some eminence, 
who had made a special study of the Oyster, 
and wrote thereon learnedly and con amore. 

Somehow or other there is something 
persuasively and personally intimate in one's 
relations with an oyster, or with a couple 
of dozen oysters, for that matter. One 
does not feel the same sentimental regard 
for the pig that provides one with one's 
morning rasher of bacon that one does for 
the merest preprandial oyster. And this 
feeling of friendship, almost intimacy, is 
always to be found in the writings of those 
who dilate upon " the breedy creatures," as 
Christopher North called our illustrious 
bivalves in the " Noctes Ambrosianae." 

Dr. Kitchiner, for instance, says : "Those 
who wish to enjoy this delicious restorative 
in its utmost perfection must eat it at the 
moment it is opened, with its own gravy in 
the undershell ; if not eaten absolutely alive, 
its flavour and spirit are lost. The true 
lover of an oyster will have some regard 
for the feelings of his little favourite, and 
contrive to detach the fish from the shell so 



1 68 THE GREEDY BOOK 

dexterously that the oyster is hardly con- 
scious he has been ejected from his lodging 
till he feels the teeth of the piscivorous 
gourmet tickling him to death." 

There are other instances innumerable of 
a certain dainty touch in dealing with 
oysters. Contact with them seems to en- 
gender humour, good nature, and a tricksey 
spirit. Huxley called oysters " a delicious 
flash of gustatory lightning " ; and there is 
a story told of the great master, G. F. Watts, 
who was challenged by Millais and Leighton 
to produce a humorous picture, whereupon 
he painted a primitive man and woman on 
the seashore. The woman is looking with 
awestruck admiration at the man who has 
just swallowed an oyster. The man himself 
appears very doubtful as to the result. The 
picture was called " B.C. The First Oyster." 

It was originally said in a very old num- 
ber of the "North British Review," that 
" he must have been a very bold man who 
first swallowed an oyster." An old legend 
assigns the first act of oyster-eating to a 
very natural cause. It is related that a man 
walking by the sea one day picked up an 



OYSTERS 169 

oyster, just as it was in the act of gaping. 
Observing the extreme smoothness of the 
interior of the shell, he insinuated his finger 
between them that he might feel their 
shining surface, when suddenly they closed 
upon the exploring digit, with a sensation 
less pleasurable than he anticipated. The 
prompt withdrawal of his finger was scarcely 
a more natural movement than its transfer 
to his mouth. It is not very clear why 
people (including babies) when they hurt 
their fingers put them into their mouths ; 
but it is very certain that they do, and in 
this case the result was most fortunate. The 
owner of the finger tasted oyster juice for 
the first time, as Elia's Chinaman, having 
burned his finger, first tasted crackling. The 
savour was delicious ; he had made a great 
discovery ; so he picked up the oysters, 
forced open the shells, banqueted upon the 
contents, and soon brought oyster-eating 
into fashion. 

That tender personal regard for the inno- 
cent oyster, which I have just referred to, is 
very manifest in one of the most widely 
known poems in the English language. 1 



lyo THE GREEDY BOOK 

mean Lewis Carroll's " Walrus and the 
Carpenter," 

" O Oysters, come and walk with us ! " 

The Walrus did beseech. 
" A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk. 

Along the briny beach ; 
We cannot do with more than four, 

To give a hand to each." 

" O Oysters," said the Carpenter, 
" You've had a pleasant run ! 
Shall we be trotting home again ? " 

But answer came there none. 
And this was scarcely odd, because 
They'd eaten every one. 

The kindly regard for the susceptibilities 
of the oysters is kept up even until the 
dire denoument of the drama. Again we 
are touched by a fragment by the same 
author, of which, alas, we shall never know 
the full purport. It runs thus : — 

I passed by his garden and marked, with one eye, 
How the owl and the oyster were sharing a pie. 
(Cietera desunt.) 

Mr. Thomas Hardy did not, I am sure, 
in the title of his novel, "The Return of 



OYSTERS 171 

the Native," intend to celebrate the coming 
of oysters into the dinner menu, but it 
seems to sum up in a brief and pithy phrase 
one of the great events of the autumn. The 
old convention that oysters are only eatable 
in those months which are spelled with an 
" r " has, of course, much to be said for it ; 
at any rate, so far as British oysters are 
concerned. 

Abroad it is different, and the pares aux 
huttres at French watering-places give quite 
excellent oysters in August, and even in 
July. The huttres de Marennes, huttres 
d'Ostende, and the tiny little green ones are 
by no means to be despised, although they 
do not, perhaps, quite come up in luscious- 
ness of flavour to the real Whitstable 
native. 

We are somewhat oyster-spoiled in this 
country, and particularly in London. We 
go to Scott's, Sweeting's, Driver's, Hamp- 
ton's, Rule's, or any first-class oyster shops, 
and we get, as we know we shall get, the 
very best brand of the very best oyster 
in the world ; fresh, clean, untainted, and 
uncontaminated, which, after all is said and 



172 THE GREEDY BOOK 

done, cannot be vouched for in the case of 
second-rate hotels and caterers. 

Whether to drink champagne, Chablis, 
stout, or nothing with oysters is a nice point 
which has not as yet been authoritatively 
decided. Of course, champagne and Chablis 
go far to assimilate the oyster, but at the 
same time there are those (and — dare I con- 
fess it i* — I am amongst the number) who 
are venturesome enough to assert that the 
oyster, pure and simple, requires no alcoholic 
addition. Drink Chablis, or a light hock, 
after the oyster feast, by all means ; but 
when eating your two or three dozen on the 
deep shell (always order them on the deep 
shell) imbibe their own liquor only, and be 
thankful. 

" Un voyageur anglais, transi de froid, 
arrive dans une hotellerie de village oii il n'y 
avait d'autre feu que celui de la cuisine, 
dont la chemin^e dtait gardee par un grand 
nombre de voyageurs arrivees avant lui. 
Pour se faire faire place, il usa d'un strata- 
geme assez original. II avait aper^u en 
entrant quelques cloyeres d'hultres. II dit 
au makre de la maison, ' Monsieur, avez- 



OYSTERS 173 

vous des hukres ? ' ' Oui, Monsieur, et de 
tres-frakhes.' ' Faites-en porter une cloyere 
a mon cheval.' 'Comment, Monsieur, est-ce 
que votre cheval mange des huitres?' 'Oui, 
Monsieur ; au surplus, faites ce que je dis ; 
s'il ne les mange pas, d'autres les mangeront.' 

" Le maltre ob6it, et les voyageurs allaient 
voir un cheval manger des huttres — qu'il ne 
mangea pas. Pendant ce temps, le nouvel 
arrive prend place au feu. Le maltre de 
retour lui dit, ' Monsieur, je savais bien que 
votre cheval ne mangeait pas d'hultres.' 
' Eh bien, non,' dit I'Anglais, ' je les man- 
gerai ; ces messieurs ont quitte leur place, 
je la garderai ; ainsi a tout cela, il n'y aura 
rien de perdu.' Et, en effet, il vida la 
cloyere sans quitter le coin du feu." 

This is a quotation, apt enough, I think, 
from " La Gastronomie pour Rire, ou Anec- 
dotes, Reflexions, Maximes, et Folies Gour- 
mandes," par Cesar Gardeton, auteur du 
" Directeur des Estomacs," Paris, 1827. 

As a useful recipe for oysters, I should 
like to refer to an extract from a letter from 
Swift to Stella ; it runs thuswise : — 



174 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Lord Masham made me go home with him to eat 
■ boiled oysters. Take oysters, wash them clean ; 
that is, wash their shells clean ; then put your 
oysters in an earthen pot, with their hollow side 
down ; then put this pot, covered, into a great 
kettle with water, and so let them boil. Your 
oysters are boiled in their own liquor, and do not 
mix water. 

If oysters have to be cooked at all, which 
is a doctrine I do not support, then the 
above seems as good a way as any other. 
Really good oysters are, anyhow, too precious 
to be cooked, but should be degustated in 
puris naturalibus. 

A story which 1 venture to think apocry- 
phal is quoted by W. R. Hare in a curious 
little book, " On the Search for a Dinner," 
published in London in 1857. Speaking 
of dining in Paris, he refers to the celebrated 
restaurant the Rocker du Cancale, and relates 
how an English " Milord " drove up to the 
establishment and ordered (and ate) a hearty 
meal of twenty-nine dozen oysters ; after 
which Milord died suddenly — and no 
wonder ! They carried him down with 
great difficulty to the carriage. The groom, 



OYSTERS 175 

on seeing his master's body arrive, ex- 
claimed, with great coolness, " It is the third 
time that Milord gives himself the pleasure 
of dying of indigestion." " He will not die 
a fourth time," answered the patron, with 
sorrow. Milord was buried at Pere-la- 
Chaise. His facetious friends deposit every 
year by the remains of the defunct an enor- 
mous quantity of oyster-shells. The tomb 
is about five-and-twenty yards from that of 
H61oise and Abdlard. On a slab of black 
marble the following epitaph is inscribed : 

" Here lies , dead for the third time in 

a duel with the oysters of the Rocher du 
Cancale." 

I confess that I have not had the curiosity 
to verify the tombstone. 

Brillat-Savarin has an oyster anecdote to 
the effect that he was at Versailles in the 
year 1798 as Commissary of the Directory, 
and had frequently to meet the Registrar of 
the Tribunal, M. Laperte. The latter was 
so fond of oysters that he used to grumble 
about never having had enough to satisfy 
him. Being determined to procure him 
that satisfaction, Brillat - Savarin asked 



176 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Laperte to dinner, and the latter accepted. 
" I kept up with him," says the host, " to 
the third dozen, letting him then go on by 
himself. He went on steadily to the thirty- 
second dozen — that is to say, for more than 
an hour, as they were opened but slowly — 
and as in the meantime I had nothing else to 
do — a state quite unbearable at table — I 
stopped him just as he was beginning to 
show more appetite than ever. " My dear 
friend," I said, " it must be some other day 
that you have enough to satisfy you ; let us 
now have some dinner." We took dinner, 
and he showed all the vigour and hunger of 
a man who had been fasting. 

These oyster-gorges are, however, mere 
epitomes of vulgar gluttony. There is no 
more gastronomic satisfaction to be got out 
of thirty-three dozen than out of the con- 
ventional two dozen. In fact, doctors rarely 
prescribe more than one dozen at a time. 

Horace, Martial, and Juvenal, Cicero and 
Seneca, Pliny, ^tius, and the old Greek 
doctor Oribasius, whom Julian the Apostate 
delighted to honour, have all enlarged upon 
the virtues of the oyster. It would be easy 



OYSTERS 177 

to add to the list and to quote corroborative 
passages, but the thing has been done so 
often and so copiously, that it would 
certainly be supererogatory and tedious. 
The Tabella Cibaria has been referred to by 
every culinary scribe, and we really know 
more about the oyster habits of the Romans 
than we do about those of the inhabitants 
of the Hebrides ; which is absurd. 

G. A. Sala says that the Pontiffs of Pagan 
Rome caused oysters to be served at every 
repast ; but the delicacy must have been very 
expensive, since a basket of oysters cost the 
equivalent of nine pounds sterling. They 
were served raw and were dexterously opened 
by a slave at a side-table at the beginning of 
the dinner. 

There is a story told of an astute Roman 
epicure named Fulvius Hirpinus who con- 
structed on his estate, close to the seashore, 
a fish-pond where he stored or " parked " 
oysters, which he fattened with paste and 
cooked wine, worked to the consistency of 
honey. He was certainly astute because 
besides regaling himself and his friends 
on these artificially fattened oysters, he 



178 THE GREEDY BOOK 

drove a roaring trade in selling them whole- 
sale and retail to the nobility and gentry of 
Rome. 

The same authority goes on to say that, 
oddly enough, in a comparatively modern 
cookery book, that of Will Rabisha, there is 
a direction, a rather ferocious one, that while 
oysters are undergoing the process of broil- 
ing they should be fed with white wine and 
grated bread. Of course many ways were 
adopted in those days for the feeding of 
oysters ; but a paste of oatmeal and water 
seems to have been the staple of the suste- 
nance given to the creatures before they 
were considered to be fit for the table. 

The Greeks, according to Athenseus, boiled 
and fried their oysters, finding them, how- 
ever, best of all when roasted in the coals 
till the shells opened. 

As early as the seventeenth century the 
French prepared them en etuvk and enfricasee. 
Both recipes appear in the " Ddices de la 
Campagne " (1654), a book of extreme in- 
terest and full of quaint information ; but 
not, it would seem, strictly reliable as a 
record of the cookery of the time. 




Frontispiece to " Dcs M;igcns Vertheiiiigung der ciUcn Austcrn " 

Pr;iguc, 1731 

[To face page 17S 



OYSTERS 179 

We are so accustomed nowadays to pay 
half a crown, three and sixpence, and even 
more for our dozen oysters, that It seems 
almost incredible that our fathers regaled 
themselves thereon at the common or general 
price of sixpence a dozen. An old poem 
on the subject says : — 

Happy the man, who, void of care and strife. 
In silken or in leathern purse retains 
A splendid shilling : he nor hears with pain 
New oysters cried, nor sighs for cheerful ale. 

This is from " The Splendid Shilling," by 
John Philip, which, according to Steele in 
the " Tatler," was " the finest burlesque 
poem in the English language." 

Just exactly why the price of oysters 
should have increased so enormously in 
recent years has never been satisfactorily 
explained. Many ridiculous reasons have 
been given, but they seem either impertinent, 
or inadequate, or both. We need only 
refer to the pages of the "Pickwick Papers " 
for confirmation. 

" Before proceeding to the Legacy Duty 
Ofl^ce about proving the will of his late wife, 



i8o THE GREEDY BOOK 

Mr. Weller, senior, and his fellow-coachmen, 
as witnesses, bethought themselves of having 
a drop of beer, and a little cold beef, or an 
oyster. These viands were promptly pro- 
duced, and the luncheon was done ample 
justice to. If one individual evinced greater 
powers than another it was the coachman 
with the hoarse voice, who took an imperial 
pint of vinegar with his oysters, and did not 
betray the least emotion." 

Another and more striking illustration. 

" It's a very remarkable circumstance, 
sir," said Sam Weller, " that poverty and 
oysters always seem to go together ; the 
poorer a place is the greater call there seems 
to be for oysters. Look here, sir ! blest if 
I don't think that ven a man's wery poor he 
rushes out of his lodgings, and eats oysters 
for regular desperation." 

The Colchester Oyster Feast is an annual 
function which is usually graced by the 
presence and assistance of political and other 
notabilities. The Mayor and Corporation 
open the proceedings by " sizing " the 
oysters, eating a large number at luncheon, 
and following the luncheon with prescribed 



OYSTERS i8i 

draughts of gin and slices of gingerbread. 
This historic repast seems, on the face of it, 
to be of a somewhat incongruous nature ; 
but it is said by those who have survived it, 
and their number is very large, that the 
cates and beverage go well together, and 
never quarrel among themselves. 

Until comparatively recent times, another 
annual Oyster Feast took place at Edinburgh, 
with a kind of civic ceremonial, known as 
the Feast of Shells. A voyage was made 
by Provosts and Bailiffs to the oyster beds 
in the Firth of Forth, and " though the 
solemnity of wedding the Frith formed no 
part of the Chief Magistrate's office, as 
wedding the Adriatic with a gold ring did 
that of the Doge of Venice," three cheers 
were given by all present as the first 
" dredge " was hoisted on to the deck of the 
civic barge. 

There is an old fisherman's song, now 
almost forgotten, one verse of which runs : — 

The Herring loves the merry moonlight, 

The Mackerel loves the wind, 
But the Oyster loves the dredger's song, 
' For he comes of a gentle kind. 



1 82 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Many years ago a sort of popular belief 
was current to the absurd effect that Oysters 
could be trained to sing. It is impossible 
to says whence the superstition arose, but it 
was helped by a noted exhibition, in London, 
of a " "Whistling Oyster " which was sup- 
posed to emit certain sibilant sounds. Thou- 
sands flocked to hear it, but it was more or 
less conclusively proved, however, that it 
was a trick of ventriloquism on the part of 
the showman. 

In Tom Hood's " Miss Kilmansegg and 
her Golden Leg," there is an apt reference 
to a Colchester Oyster, when they were very 
much cheaper than they are to-day, and, 
as before mentioned, were practically poor 
men's food. 

What different fates our stars accord ! 

One babe is welcomed, and wooed as a lord, 

Another is shunned like a leper ; 
One to the world's wine, and honey, and corn. 
Another, like Colchester native, is born 

To its vinegar only, and pepper. 

The Americans always seem to do things 
on a larger scale than we, in our effete little 
island, are able to do. They excel even in 



OYSTERS 183 

the fecundity of their oysters. The British 
mollusc Ostrea edulis produces about a 
million young in a season. One of the 
American variety, Ostrea Virginiana, about 
ten times as many. 

There is a great Oyster cult in the United 
States, and the different manners of cooking, 
preparing, and serving the oyster are mani- 
fold. A book might be written on the pros 
and cons of cooking an oyster at all, and 
opinions as to its legitimacy differ, even 
among the erudite on the subject. Be that 
as it may, the Americans certainly owe much 
of their nerve - strength, hustlesomeness, 
and vigour to their enormous oyster con- 
sumption. It is the ideal food to replace 
and restore nerve power. It is hardly too 
much to say that the oyster is the founda- 
tion of America's commercial success. 

Oliver Wendell Holmes says somewhere 
that two immense oysters should be carved 
in marble and placed on top of the Washing- 
ton monument in Baltimore, instead of the 
statue of the immortal George. " I am not 
in favour of removing the Father of his 
Country from off his imposing pedestal, but 



1 84 THE GREEDY BOOK 

should like to compromise matters by making 
him sit on a pile of oyster-shells in lieu of 
a curule chair." 

When Thackeray went to Boston in 1852 
he had Some trouble with the very large 
American oyster. " He first selected the 
smallest one of the half-dozen (rejecting 
a larger one because, as he said, it resembled 
the High Priest's servant's ear that Peter 
cut off), and then bowed his head as though 
he were saying Grace. Opening his mouth 
very wide, he struggled for a moment, 
after which all was over. I shall never 
forget the comic look of despair he cast 
upon the other five over-occupied shells. 
I asked him how he felt. ' Profoundly 
grateful,' he said, 'as if I had swallowed a 
small baby.' " 

But Thackeray was not an authority, for 
he ranked "the dear little juicy green oysters 
of France " above the " great white flaccid 
natives in England that look as if they had 
been fed on pork." This is ungenerous. 

The poet Gay wrote in praise of Oysters 
when Fleet Ditch, now turned into the 
Farringdon Street sewer, was still a London 



OYSTERS 185 

eyesore. It appears to have been a centre 
of London Oyster hucksters. 

If where Fleet Ditch with muddy current flows 
You chance to roam, where oyster tubs in rows 
Are ranged beside the posts, there stay thy haste, 
And with the savoury fish indulge thy taste. 

Oysters are not unconnected with Pearls, 
although a real Oyster-lover must necessarily 
regret that a large number of his darling 
food is sacrificed for the trivial purpose of 
feminine adornment. It seems such waste ! 
It were well to cast pearls before swine, if 
the molluscs were reserved for the pig- 
keepers. The pearls, by the by, which are 
used in heraldry to denote the gradations of 
rank in the coronets of peers, are the 
produce of the Pinna marina, the large 
pearl-oyster of the East Indies. 

A curious pearl case came before the law 
courts in Hamburg recently. A merchant 
and his wife, dining at a local restaurant, 
began their dinner, as right-minded folk 
always should, with oysters. In one of the 
shells they found quite a considerable-sized 
and admirably formed pearl. They were 



1 86 THE GREEDY BOOK 

about to carry it off in triumph, when the 
restaurant-keeper interfered and claimed it 
as his property. This was disputed, and the 
matter taken to law, the pearl in question 
being valued by experts at one hundred and 
fifty pounds. Eventually the decision was 
given against the restaurant proprietor, the 
judge holding that by purchasing the oysters 
the guest was entitled to anything found in 
them. A just and upright judge ! 

Between 1775 and 1818 there lived and 
flourished (more or less) in Malta, Naples, 
Paris, and elsewhere, a notable composer, 
Nicolo Isouard, more generally known as 
Nicolo. He wrote many operas, all of which 
are now forgotten. Having lived in Naples 
he was a great macaroni eater, and prepared 
the dish himself in a somewhat original 
manner. He stuffed each tube of macaroni 
with a mixture of marrow, p&te de foie gras, 
chopped truffles, and cut-up oysters. He 
then heated up the preparation, and ate it 
with his left hand covering up his eyes, for 
he asserted that he could not afford to allow 
the beautiful thoughts engendered by such 
exquisite food to be disturbed by any ex- 



OYSTERS 187 

traneous mundane sights. No wonder he 
died young. 

There is a Russian story, averagely true 
I opine, of the emancipation of a serf 
through the agency of oysters. One of the 
ancestors of the banking firm of Sjalouschine 
was originally a serf of Prince Cheremeteff. 
The serf, by dealing in corn and cattle, had 
become very well-to-do, and he asked the 
Prince again and again to set him free, even 
offering him large sums of money as the 
price of his emancipation. But the Prince 
always refused, as he was rather tickled by 
the idea of owning a serf who was com- 
paratively a rich man. 

In the beginning of one September the 
serf went to St. Petersburg on business, and 
brought back with him a barrel of oysters, 
the first of the season. When he returned 
he asked to see the Prince, but was told that 
His Highness was in a terribly bad temper 
because his chef had forgotten to order any 
oysters. Whereupon the serf went straight 
to the Prince and offered him his barrel of 
oysters in exchange for his freedom. The 
Prince being, as aforesaid, of a humorous 



1 88 THE GREEDY BOOK 

disposition, and besides, wanting the oysters 
badly, was taken by the notion. He agreed 
to the bargain, and clenched it by saying, 
" We will now lunch together on the 
oysters." 

The family of Sjalouschine is said to bear 
oysters on their coat-of-arms in memory of 
the emancipation. 

At a dinner-party where there were twelve 
covers, one of the courses consisted of 
scalloped oysters in silver shells. The set 
of shells was broken— there were only 
eleven. The mistress, therefore, told the 
butler that she would not eat any oysters. 
When the oyster course came, he placed 
before his mistress one of the shells. To 
his horror she did not decline it. She took 
up her fork and was about to plunge into it, 
when the man flew to her side. " Pardon 
me, madam," he murmured, " but you said 
I was to remind you that the doctor forbade 
your eating oysters on any account." 




" Will you walk a little faster ? " said the Whiting 

to the Snail ; 
"There's a lobster close behind me and he's 

treading on my tail." 

Lewis Carroll 

The collocation of Waiters and Snails under 
one chapter-heading is not entirely fortuitous. 
The remote connexion which may fairly be 
said to exist between the two is not perhaps 
as marked to-day as it was some time ago, 
for waiters are improving rapidly, and snails 
— well, snails are remaining very much 
where they used to be. The advent of the 
well-trained foreign waiter has done much 
to improve our restaurant dinner-table, and, 
incidentally, the temper of the average diner. 
Of the expert, deft, and sober British waiter 
there is also nothing but good to be said. 
189 



I90 THE GREEDY BOOK 

The snail has no family relationship with 
either of these classes. 

Unfortunately, however, there are others, 
many others, who are slow, dirty, ignorant, 
and only occasionally sober. It is such as 
these who degrade waiterdom, and to whom 
the snail is a fit comparison — save that the 
waiter is not edible. Nothing could be 
smarter than a good English waiter with a 
knowledge of foreign dishes, or a good 
foreign waiter with a knowledge of English ; 
and thanks to the interest now taken in 
everything appertaining to dining in public 
places, neither is now as uncommon as he 
used to be. 

One P. Z. Didsbury,.an American deip- 
nosophist, once said in his wisdom : "In a 
restaurant when a waiter offers you turbot, 
ask for salmon, and when he offers you a 
sole, order a mackerel ; as language to men, 
so fish has been given to the waiter to dis- 
guise his thoughts." 

This maligns the individual waiter, of 
course ; the man who is used to attending 
on you, who knows your likes and dislikes, 
and takes a personal interest in your con- 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 191 

tentment, but it is fairly typical of the 
average restaurant waiter who sees you for 
the first time and thinks you just one of the 
ordinary mob. For the casual customer is 
the facile dupe of the waiter. He comes, 
he orders his dinner, or preferably, permits 
it to be ordered for him, pays his bill, and 
goes away. Eating with him partakes of the 
stoking process, and he recks little of the 
particular a la offered to him, if it be tooth- 
some, and saucily disguised. 

In the best restaurants, as well in Eng- 
land as on the Continent, deception, fraud, 
and trickery are comparatively rare. They 
would not pay. But in nearly every res- 
taurant below the class of the best some 
one or other or all of the traditional time- 
honoured wiles of the waiter are practised 
on the more or less unsuspecting customer. 

There is, for instance, the well-known 
trick of " Putting the change to bed." It is 
preferably employed when a man is dining 
with a lady who, to the cynical and ex- 
perienced eye of the waiter, is obviously not 
his wife. This is the very simple modus 
operandi. Your bill, we will say, as presented 



192 THE GREEDY BOOK 

to you, discreetly folded in half on a plate, 
comes to one pound fifteen shillings. You 
place a couple of sovereigns under the 
upper fold of the bill. The waiter returns 
with the change. If you are careless you 
do not count it. You see half a crown on 
the bill, and say nonchalantly " All right." 
Whereupon the waiter is exceeding glad, 
for you have given him five shillings. If, 
on the other hand, you are observant, accu- 
rate, and careful, you will say, " The change 
is not right." The waiter, who has carefully 
concealed the second half-crown between the 
bill and the plate, will semi-indignantly say, 
" I beg your pardon, sir ! " and drawing 
away the bill, the two half-crowns will be 
exposed to view. After having doubted his 
word, you cannot do less than give the poor 
man the two coins. So the waiter scores 
either way. " Putting the change to bed " 
rarely fails. 

Mr. Pinero illustrated this trick very 
neatly in his delightful farce, " The Magis- 
trate," some years ago at the Old Court 
Theatre. 

It is said that some of the most famous 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 193 

conjurers of to-day began life as restaurant 
waiters, and certainly the knack of palming 
the cork of the wine you ordered, and 
serving you with an inferior quality thereof, 
meanwhile gravely depositing the palmed 
cork next to the bottle, in its cradle, is a 
very old and usually successful trick. It is 
as well, too, to see that the label on the 
wine bottle is dry and stuck fast, because, 
unless you have ordered the man "just to 
take the chill off," he may have helped him- 
self from the common stock of red or white 
wine, and affixed the label of your particular 
vintage as he came upstairs. 

It is quite extraordinary how many men 
who pride themselves on knowing a good 
bottle of wine are deceived in this way. 
There is an old story of three men dining 
together at a cheap restaurant. One ordered 
a pint of Pontet Canet, another a pint 
of Medoc, and the third a pint of Beaune. 
The waiter went to a speaking-tube, and 
shouted down it, " Three small reds ! " 

The question of the substitution of corks 
has many and quaint developments. An 
enormous trade is done at third- and fourth- 



194 THE GREEDY BOOK 

rate restaurants with "faked" champagne, 
which it were mere flattery to call even 
" sparkling petrol." The restaurateurs, for- 
eigners it is to be hoped to a man, import 
a thoroughly innocuous thin white wine, and 
then bottle and aerate it, just as they would 
soda-water. The corks are replaced (after 
being drawn) by genuine corks of well-known 
brands, and there is a large market for good, 
sound, used champagne corks. This market 
is supplied by the waiters at good-class 
restaurants, where wines correct to designa- 
tion are served. If the diner does not 
happen to collect champagne corks (and few 
of us have this weakness), the waiter carefully 
gathers them when clearing the table for 
dessert. 

This is a genuine letter addressed by such 
a waiter to a reputable firm of champagne 
importers : " I beg to send you a hundred 

corks of the well-known brands of and 

. They may be useful to you. I am 

waiter at , and am often asked by 

customers to recommend a wine. Awaiting 
your favourable reply, I am, etc." 

Another kind of waiter, neither as sharp 












'%^ 



-A 






■% ^^^ \ ' h{ ' ■-^;- 




LES BOISSONS : par R^ 



[To face page 19 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 195 

nor as business-like as the foregoing, on being 
asked what liqueur brandies they had, replied, 
"Two, sir ; one's 1854 and the other's a 
shilling." That kind of waiter, however, is 
more fool than thief. 

A very pretty dodge, and one, moreover, 
which the continental waiter finds very 
remunerative, is to add the date of the 
month to the amount of the bill. If you 
are dining on 24 June, and the addition 
comes to thirty-five francs, it is very easy to 
combine the two sums, particularly if the 
date be somewhat carelessly inscribed at the 
head of the account. The foreign waiter 
is a rare judge of character, and can usually 
(though not always) tell beforehand whether 
or no it be safe to try any of his little 
games. 

A favourite true in foreign caf6s, and one 
for which one should always be on the look 
out, is the giving of bad silver in the way 
of change, as many foreign coinages are now 
obsolete, and one cannot be too careful in 
this respect. It is usually a matter of date. 
The coin is not a bad coin, but simply not 
current. The Swiss two-franc piece, for 



196 THE GREEDY BOOK 

instance, is all right if Madame Helvetia is 
depicted sitting down, but all wrong if she 
be standing up. Then the Greek, Rouman- 
ian, and Turkish coins are non-admissible, 
and certain Italian cart-wheels or five-lire 
pieces no longer acceptable. It requires 
some experience to recognize at a glance in 
a handful of silver how many coins are right 
and how many wrong. 

A fraud of this kind was defeated, and 
met with its own just reward, only last 
summer at a French casino, a notorious 
haunt of the " slim " waiter. An Englishman 
having had consommations to the amount of 
two francs, paid with a louis, and received 
eighteen francs change. Of this change he 
subsequently found that seven francs, a five- 
franc and a two-franc piece, were useless. He 
returned the next night with some friends, 
found out the same waiter, ordered sundry 
refreshment, and when paying-time came, 
settled the bill with the useless coins he had 
received the night before. The waiter re- 
fused to accept them, the guest refused on 
his part to pay in any other coin. The 
matter was referred to an official of the 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 197 

casino, the matter explained, and the English 
guest was supported. For once, therefore, 
the waiter was hoist with his own petard. 

It is common knowledge that the waiters 
among themselves have a regular trade in 
these coins ; they change hands at about one- 
third of their face value, and the dupe is, 
nine times out of ten, the British tourist. 

It would be unfair to suggest that all 
waiters are guilty of these or similar wiles. 
There are hundreds of good, trustworthy 
waiters who would disdain them, and who 
know by experience, precept, or intuition 
that honesty is the best policy in the dining 
as in other worlds. 

At a first-class waiters' training school or 
college, such as the well-known Radunski's, 
at Frankfort-on-the-Main, or one or other 
of the Swiss establishments, all such tricks 
are sternly discouraged, and the budding 
maitre d'httel is strongly impressed with 
the golden rule that it does not pay, in the 
long run, to cheat clients in any shape or 
form. 

This is especially true of the highest class 
of restaurant, for waiters travel about 



1 98 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Europe a great deal, and the man who waits 
on you at the Carlton to-night may turn up 
at the Ritz in Paris next week, at Monte 
Carlo next month, and at Homburg next 
year. If he has cheated you badly, you will 
remember him (though not in the time- 
honoured waiter's sense), and his good name 
will be gone once and for all. 

I referred just now to the foreign schools 
for waiters where they are systematically, 
and one might almost say scientifically, 
trained for their profession, which is neither 
an easy nor, in the end, an unremunerative 
one. Many sons- of well-to-do German, 
Swiss, and Italian hotel and restaurant pro- 
prietors, lads who have been to good schools 
and received a first-class education, are 
content to begin at the very bottom of the 
ladder, even as piccolo or boy attendant, and 
gradually to work their way through all the 
ranks even to that of mattre d'hdtel. 

A German lad who wishes to become a 
waiter goes, first to Radunski, at Frankfort, 
or to some other regular training school for 
waiters. At the end of two years' hard 
work, if he has gained his certificate, he 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 199 

goes to an hotel or restaurant as an improver, 
without salary, for two years or more. 

Then he comes to London, and, for the 
sake of learning English, enters an English 
family at a very small wage. Having 
mastered English, he is off to France to learn 
French on similar terms. 

Finally, he returns to London as an " aid " 
waiter, and by attending to business he can 
rise to be a superintendent or a manager. 

But the Englishman wants to undertake 
skilled labour and earn full money without 
a proper training. Look, on the other hand, 
at the case of the English butler. He is 
renowned throughout the world, but then he 
was content to begin as a page and pass 
through the second stage of footman. 

A well-known restaurant manager once 
said to me : " Though we are patriotic, we 
cannot allow patriotism to stand in the way 
of efficiency. We must, for our customers' 
sakes, employ the best men we can get, 
irrespective of nationality, although we 
should prefer Englishmen, of course." 

Some attempt has been made, is being 
made in fact, to establish a training school 



200 TTHE GREEDY BOOK 

for British waiters, but its success is, I fear, 
problematical. And this for various reasons. 
Few, if any, professional men would dream 
of their boys being trained to be waiters ; it 
would be beneath their shoddy suburban 
dignity. Also, the class from which the 
average British waiter is drawn seems to be 
constitutionally incapable of acquiring even 
the merest smattering of a foreign language. 
He despises any tongue but his own. 

The British Waiters' Association has done 
excellent work on the right lines, but very 
much remains still to be accomplished. 

The average British waiter at the ordinary 
railway refreshment-room is usually a terribly 
slow and untidy individual. True, one has 
learned not to expect too much at a railway 
station. A la gare, comme h la gare ! 

Mr. Jerome K. Jerome has an amusing 
tirade on the subject. He says: "The 
slowest waiter I know is the British railway 
refreshment-room waiter. His very breath- 
ing, regular, harmonious, penetrating, instinct 
as it is with all the better attributes of a well- 
preserved grandfather's clock, conveys sug- 
gestion of dignity and peace. He is a huge, 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 201 

impressive person. There emanates from 
him an atmosphere of Lotusland. The 
otherwise unattractive room becomes an 
oasis of repose amid the turmoil of a fretful 
world." 

Of course the waiter's life is a trying and 
arduous one. There is much worry by 
thoughtless clients. There are disappoint- 
ments, and swindlers, and rogues. Then 
the actual pedestrian exercise is not little. A 
waiter in a restaurant in Christiania one day 
provided himself with a pedometer before 
starting his work. According to his calcula- 
tions he took rather under 100,000 steps, 
covering some thirty-seven miles, between 
8 a.m. and 12.30 a.m. Working and 
walking four days a week, he calculated 
that he covered more than 7000 miles in a 
year. 

Another danger is threatened by the 
waiter's serviette. In the Deutsche Medizin- 
ische Wochenschrift Professor Kron inaugu- 
rated a crusade against the napkin which the 
waiter flourishes as a sign of his profession, 
but which, in the Professor's opinion, is a 
deplorably unhygienic piece of linen and 



202 THE GREEDY BOOK 

should be summarily abolished in all civilized 
countries. 

Dr. Kron notices how waiters carry this 
thing, now in their hands, now in their 
trousers pockets, and sometimes under their 
arm. They wipe table-tops with it, wipe 
glasses, knives, forks with it, wipe the 
manly perspiration from their brows and the 
beer froth from their lips. No civilized man 
should tolerate its presence, and the Pro- 
fessor closes his article with the war-cry, 
" Away with the waiter's napkin ! " The 
Professor, it will be noticed, refers to the 
" rough " waiter only, and not to the civilized 
kind. He also fails to suggest a substitute 
for the serviette. 

In a book entitled " Trouble in the 
Balkans" Mr. J. L. C. Booth says of 
Athenian waiters : " Robbery among the 
Greeks is not a cultivated art ; it is a gift. 
They are all born with it. There is only one 
known method of getting square with an 
Athenian waiter, and that is to dine twice at 
the same place, near the door. You pay the 
first night." 

Enough of Waiters, however ; let us to a 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 203 

more congenial, if allied topic, the edible 
Snail. 

It is surely quite superfluous to enter 
upon any defence of Snails as an article of 
food. If you like them, well, you like 
them. If you do not, then you probably 
detest them. No one ever just tolerated 
snails. There is good historical precedent, 
as shall be shown hereafter, for their system- 
atic cultivation. They are most nutritious, 
containing, it is alleged, twice the amount of 
proteid possessed by the oyster. Be that as 
it may, they have been a desirable article of 
food for many centuries past. 

Paris, according to the " Figaro," con- 
sumes eight hundred thousand kilogrammes 
of snails annually. High though this figure 
is, it will probably be exceeded, for, after 
having been in disgrace for some time, the 
escargot has reconquered the favour of the 
gourmets. 

Burgundy and the two departments of 
Savoy" are the great sources of supply. 
There they are bought for 8 fr. or 9 fr. the 
thousand. The interesting molluscs are 
first sent to Auxerre, whence they are resold 



204 THE GREEDY BOOK 

to Paris as coming from the vines of Macon 
and Dijon. 

A number of intelligent speculators also 
practise the breeding of snails, which they 
place in parks enclosed in fences made of 
smoothly planed planks covered with tar to 
prevent their climbing out and escaping. 

Snails, too, play a very important part in 
our ordinary daily food, although the snail- 
hater would scoiFat the idea. But it is even 
so. What think you imparts to South 
Down and Dartmoor mutton its fine flavour 
and highly nutritive properties ? Snails ! 
The grass upon which they feed teems with 
small snails of the Helix caperata species, and 
these, with or without the will of the sheep, 
form part of the diet of the latter, taken with 
the grass. 

The Burgundy snail, however, has be- 
come more and more scarce during the past 
few seasons. The Council General of the 
Department of the C6te d'Or seriously took 
up the question, and asked the Prefect of 
the department to authorize a close time for 
snails between 15 April and 15 June. 
The Prefect replied that he had no power 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 205 

to make such an order, as the snail was 
not game. The Council thereupon voted 
a protest, and expressed the hope that the 
snail might rank in the category of game, 
and be accorded a close time. 

The French sportsman's category of game 
is tolerably wide, and includes birds which 
we do not rightly understand under that 
generic title. Still, to include snails as 
game seems a trifle — well, far-fetched. It 
would be difficult to shoot snails, save 
with a pop-gun at perhaps six feet. It 
might be easier to stalk them. After all, 
we have a close time for oysters, which are 
not much more game-like than snails. The 
point for France surely is not whether 
snails should rank as reptiles or insects, 
vermin or cattle, but whether they are worth 
preserving. And the Burgundy snail is. 

In the time of Pliny, we are told, a con- 
coction of snails beaten up in warm water 
was recommended for coughs. The Romans 
were very fond of snails, which they fat- 
tened in special " cochlearia," feeding them 
with bran soaked in wine until they attained 
quite large dimensions. Charles the Fifth 



2o6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of Spain died of indigestion brought on by 
eating immoderately of snails. 

Mrs. Delaney, writing in 1758, says: 
"Two or three Snails should be boiled in 
the barley-water which Mary takes, who 
coughs at night. She must know nothing 
of it. They give no manner of taste." 

The first importation of Snails into Eng- 
land has been attributed to Sir Kenelm 
Digby (1645) ^°^ ^^^ wife. Also the apple 
snail was brought to the South Downs of 
Surrey and Sussex, as well as to Box Hill in 
the sixteenth century, by one of the Earls 
of Arundel for his Countess, who dressed 
and ate them to promote the cure of con- 
sumption, from which she suffered. 

Snails did not really come into French 
vogue until the return of Louis XVIII, in 
1 8 14, on which occasion the Bishop of 
Autun entertained the Emperor Alexander 
of Russia. The popular host, who was a 
famous gastronome, had in his service a 
most accomplished cook, the best in Paris 
at that time ; they put their heads together 
and hit upon Snails as the most suitable 
novelty for presenting to the imperial guest. 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 207 

Together with this dish, which was handed 
round, there appeared on the card under the 
heading Escargots a la Bourgignonne a de- 
scription of the delicious seasoning with 
which each shell was filled up. 

In 1854, M. de la Marr, of Paris, set 
forth the virtues of Helicin as a glutinous 
extract obtained from snails, and which had 
long been given in broth as a successful 
domestic remedy for pulmonary phthisis. 

Gipsies are great snail eaters, but they 
first starve these gasteropods, which are 
given to devour poisonous plants, and must 
be rendered free from the same, for it is 
certain that Snails retain for a time the 
flavour and odour of the vegetables on 
which they feed. 

The above most interesting particulars 
may be read, at greater length, in a com- 
pendious and reliable work, entitled " Meals 
Medicinal," by Dr. W. T. Fernie. 

There is an increasing export of Snails 
from England to A merica. As many as ten 
thousand are packed in a cask, of which 
hundreds are shipped annually. But there 
is and always has been a large home con- 



2o8 THE GREEDY BOOK 

sumption, particularly in certain counties. 
In some Gloucestershire towns they quite 
outclass whelks and winkles as a snack to 
accompany a glass of beer, and they are 
commonly hawked by the basket, cooked 
ready for eating, round the public-houses. 
Snail broth or stewed snails is a well-known 
and thoroughly approved rural remedy for 
consumption, and indeed all chest complaints. 
In Hampshire, to help weak eyes, snails are 
made into a poultice with soaked bread- 
crusts. The glass men at Newcastle have 
a Snail Feast once a year. They collect the 
snails in the fields and hedgerows on the 
Sunday before the anniversary, and their 
wives wash, clean, and stuff them according 
to established tradition. According to the 
authority of Mr. F. H. Elsey, librarian of 
the Surrey Archaeological Society, the edible 
snail, Helix pomatia, was most probably intro- 
duced into this country by the Romans from 
Gaul. It is not peculiar to Surrey, for it is 
found in Kent ; and Sowerby, in his " Illus- 
trated Index of British Shells," gives the 
southern chalky districts. It is no doubt 
confined to these by the large size of its 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 209 

shell, requiring the secretion of lime for 
its formation. This snail hibernates from 
October to April in a subterranean burrow. 

It has been said this snail was brought to 
this country from Italy by Thomas, Earl of 
Arundel (Earl Marshal). " His lady," says 
Salmon, " delighting in such food." Evelyn 
remarks that "this huge and fleshy snail 
was had in delicus by the Earl himself." 
Mr. Elsey entirely agrees with Lieut.-Col. 
Godwin-Austen, the well-known authority 
upon moUusca, that the snail was here long 
before the Earl of Arundel's time. 

Two very fine shells of this snail, one 
measuring if in, long, i^ in. broad, and 
i^ in. high, can be seen in the Surrey 
Archaeological Museum, Castle Arch, Guild- 
ford. These two specimens were found by 
Mr. Elsey a few years ago just below where 
Mr. W. P. Trench's house is built adjoining 
the Echo Pits, Guildford, in a hedge now 
grubbed up. 

There is a suggestion in Spenser that the 
edible snail is the poor man's oyster, and 
Dr. Yeo confirms this. Some little while 
ago Canon Horsley strongly recommended 



2IO THE GREEDY BOOK 

the more general adoption of snails as an 
article of food, although he naively admitted 
that he had never eaten one himself. There- 
upon the " Lancet " said : " There is nothing 
to be said against the proposal from a dietetic 
point of view ; the snail is both nutritious and 
tasty." The professsional journal goes on 
to say : — 

"The snail has been called 'the poor man's 
oyster,' though we do not remember to have 
seen it eaten raw. We know, however, that 
it makes an excellent fish sauce, and may be 
used for the same purpose as oyster sauce. 
Possibly also a few snails in a steak-and- 
kidney pudding would increase the tastiness 
of this popular food. 

"Care must be exercised in the choice of 
the snail for food purposes, as it is well 
known that snails feed on poisonous plants, 
and it is the custom in France to allow a 
few days to elapse after they have been 
taken from their feeding ground, in order 
that any poisonous matters may be elimin- 
ated. 

"According to analysis, very nearly 90 per 
cent of the solid matter of the snail is pro- 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 211 

teid matter, available directly for repairing 
the tissues of the body. 

" Besides this, there is about 6 per cent of 
fat and 4 per cent of mineral matter, in- 
cluding phosphates." 

According to an excellent gastronomic 
authority, the best snails in Paris are to be 
found at Prunier's, in the Rue Duphot, near 
the Madeleine. He boils his snails in a 
liquid which is partly composed of good white 
wine, with a little garlic and bay leaves, 
thyme, onions, and carrots in it. The snails 
are served in small silver bowls, and the 
weapon of offence is a two-pronged silver 
fork. The first time that one holds a long 
black steaming thing on a fork, and hesi- 
tates whether to put it into one's mouth or 
not, is rather a strange moment. 

IVIost people who try the experiment of 
snail-eating take the snail out of their 
mouths quicker than they put it in. Bur- 
gundy is the correct wine to drink with your 
snails. 

The Hungarian manner of cooking snails 
is, after the boiling and cleaning, to cut 
them small, mix them with chopped-up 



2ia THE GREEDY BOOK 

anchovies, and to serve them hot on hot 
toast, a squeeze of lemon and a dash of 
red pepper giving the dish its final touches. 
The curiosity of the Hungarian method of 
cooking and serving the snails is that no 
man, unless he was told, would know what 
he was eating. 

Francatelli,in his "Modern Cook," strongly 
recommends snails, and gives a method of 
cooking them, nearly akin to the usual 
French way. In fact, nearly all foreign 
cookery books give one or more recipes, 
either as broth, stew, or a la Bourgignon. 

The "London Gazette" of 23 March, 1 739, 
tells us that "Mrs. Joanna Stephens received 
from the Government five thousand pounds 
for revealing the secret of her famous cure 
for stone in the bladder. This consisted 
chiefly of egg shells and Snails, mixed with 
Soap, Honey, and Herbs." Rather earlier 
than this date " Lady Honeywood's Snail 
"Water " was much used for complaints of 
the chest. 

Defoe, writing in 1722, described a cook- 
shop " where you may bespeak a dinner for 
four or five shillings a head up to a guinea 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 213 

or what sum you will " ; one of the items 
being " a ragout of fatted snails." 

Has any literary critic ever noticed the 
curious similarity between a verse of Sir 
John Suckling and Robert Herrick, who 
were, of course, contemporaries ? I am re- 
minded of it because Snails are used by the 
latter where Mice are referred to by the 
former. 

In Sir John Suckling's " Ballad upon a 
Wedding," everybody knows the lines : — 

Her feet beneath her petticoat 
Like little mice stole in and out. 

In Robert Herrick's poem, " On Her 
Feet," occurs this verse : — 

Her pretty feet like snails, did creep 

A little out, and then 
As if they played at bo-peep, 

Did soon draw in again. 

The comparison is interesting. 

Quite recently a case brought under the 
Workmen's Compensation Act in Paris re- 
vealed the existence of a hitherto unknown 
industry. This was none other than the 
manufacture of artificial snails. 



214 THE GREEDY BOOK 

The evidence showed that a workman 
had had a finger broken by a machine whose 
object was to cut boiled calves' lights into 
portions shaped like a small corkscrew for 
insertion into the empty shells of snails 
which had been thrown into dustbins after 
their contents had been consumed, and 
thence gathered by the chiffonniers, or rag- 
pickers, and sold to the proprietor of the 
factory. The revelation caused a sensa- 
tion of horror among the Parisian popula- 
tion, for whom the succulent snail is a 
delicious delicacy partaken of on all occa- 
sions of festivity, and purchased at prices 
ranging from 6d. to 8d. per dozen. It was 
stated by the injured workman that by the 
substitution of calves' lights the fabricated 
" snails " could be sold at the factory at 2d. 
a dozen. 

The small horticultural speculator in 
Germany has of late years been taking a 
leaf from the book of his neighbours, and 
become an ardent cultivator of the luscious 
edible snail, a delicacy Hans is now as assidu- 
ous in tending for ultimate sale in the 
market as ever was Jacques Bonhomme. 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 215 

July is considered the best month for collect- 
ing this gasteropodous mollusc prior to 
fattening him for his final appearance in the 
shape of a dainty parsley-and-butter-bespat- 
tered bonne bouche for some " good liver " 
in Berlin or elsewhere. 

These large white snails come from the 
vineyards principally about the Rhine and 
the Moselle ; the breeder for gastronomic 
purposes, however, confines his little flock, 
when once secured from amid the umbrage- 
ous vines, to a special little " run " of their 
own, where henceforth their whole duty 
consists in " doing themselves well." The 
" run " is fixed up on a sunny stretch of 
lawn, hemmed in with boards upon which is 
smeared clay mixed with vinegar and salt 
and water — so as to prevent any crawling 
out of bounds. 

In the United States edible snails are 
frequently to be seen exposed for sale ; but 
they are not raised in that country, and 
those on sale have been shipped to America 
alive from Europe. 

In Vienna, again, during Lent there is a 
snail market, the snails coming in barrels 



2i6 THE GREEDY BOOK 

from Swabia. The great centre for the con- 
sumption of snails, however, is Paris and 
some of the French provinces. There is, 
indeed, a very large trade in this commodity 
in France, the large white snail being in 
special demand in Paris, while the garden 
and wood snails are in common use among 
poorer consumers in all parts of France. 

The collecting of snails is carried on in 
the French provinces all day long by men, 
women, and children, who with iron hooks 
search for them at the foot of thorn hedges 
and under ivy, and in winter in old walls. 
If lucky, a good searcher will collect from 
one thousand to fifteen hundred snails. 
These are paid for according to their weight, 
about a thousand snails averaging ten kilo- 
grammes, and the payment varies with the 
prices current in the Paris market, but it 
usually ranges from twenty to forty centimes 
per kilo. The work, therefore, cannot be 
said to be well paid. 

A curious superstition existed for many 
years with regard to the Snail in Southern 
Germany. Practically all snail shells have 
their volutes or spirals {Helix-r-'a. snail — a 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 217 

screw — a spiral) twisting from right to left. 
Once in about twenty thousand snails the 
twist is found to be from left to right. This 
snail was then dubbed " The Snail King," 
and was sold at a fancy price as an amulet 
or luck-bringer. It would be curious to 
know whether this custom has been noticed 
elsewhere. 

In a biography of Adam Smith, by Francis 
W. Hirst, a nice snail story is told of 
Professors Black and Hutton, the fathers of 
the modern sciences of modern chemistry 
and modern geology. 

It so chanced that Black and Hutton had 
held some discourse together upon the folly 
of abstaining from feeding on the crustaceous 
creatures of the land, when those of the sea 
were considered as delicacies. Snails were 
known to be nutritious and wholesome, 
even " sanative " in some cases. The 
epicures of ancient Rome enumerated the 
snails of Lucca among the richest and rarest 
delicacies, and the modern Italians still held 
them in esteem. So a gastronomic experi- 
ment was resolved on. The snails were 
procured, dieted for a time, then stewed. 



21 8 THE GREEDY BOOK 

" A huge dish of snails was placed before 
them ; but philosophers are but men after 
all ; and the stomachs of both doctors began 
to revolt against the proposed experiment. 
Nevertheless, if they looked with disgust on 
the snails, they retained their awe for each 
other ; so that each, conceiving the symp- 
toms of internal revolt peculiar to himself, 
began with infinite exertion to swallow in 
very small quantities the mess which he 
loathed. Dr. Black at length ' showed the 
white feather,' but in a very delicate manner, 
as if to sound the opinion of his messmate. 
' Doctor,' he said, in his precise and quiet 
style, ' Doctor, do you not think that they 

taste a little — a very little green .'' ' 'D d 

green, d d green indeed ! Tak' them 

awa' — tak' them awa ! ' vociferated Dr. 
Hutton, starting up from the table and 
giving full vent to his feelings." 

As a final tribute to the usefulness of the 
Snail, it may not be generally known that 
they are matchless as window cleaners. 

An old coloured woman selling snails 
occasionally makes her appearance in certain 
streets in Philadelphia. She carries an old 



WAITERS AND SNAILS 219 

basket in which the snails repose on freshly 
sprinkled leaves. These are not sold as 
food, but for cleaning the outside of window- 
panes. The snail is damped and placed 
upon the glass, where it at once moves 
around and devours all insects and foreign 
matter, leaving the pane as bright and clear 
as crystal. There are old-established 
business places in Philadelphia where the 
upper windows, when cleaned at all, are 
always cleaned by snails. There is also 
a fine market for snails among the owners 
of aquariums, as they keep the glass clean 
and bright. 





" Only a pomegranate is he who, when he gapes 
his mouth, displays the contents of his heart." 
Japanese Proverb. 

History and cookery are linked together 
so closely that a study of the one science 
implies, or should imply, a study of the 
other. For the best part of a century and 
a half the notable names of contemporary 
history are allied to dishes which perpetuated 
their glory and have come down to us as 
ornaments alike of the monarchy and the 
menu. 

The period is of course that of the 
fourteenth and fifteenth Louis of France, 
and for several (mainly esoteric) reasons 
that brilliant and fascinating age produced 



DISHES OF HISTORY 221 

most of the classic dishes of high cookery, 
dishes which have become, so to say, 
standardized, and which every chef who 
respects the traditions of his art serves, or 
ought to serve, in precisely the same manner 
in which they were designed by their 
original inventors. 

The average diner, when he sees on the 
menu of his Masonic banquet, his annual 
Mansion House dinner, or his City Company 
feast, the name of some historic celebrity 
tacked on to the roast, the entree or the 
sweet, recks little of its origin and inner 
meaning. To him it is just something to 
be eaten, nothing more or less. And yet, 
if the chef be competent, properly trained, 
and alive to his educational responsibilities, 
these dishes have each their own story, their 
own interest, and their own special and 
peculiar virtue. 

Take as an instance Cttelettes de Mouton a la 
Maintenon. These succulent dainties per- 
petuate for all time the memory of a lady, 
who, whatsoever her faults, was at least 
charming, interesting, and something more 
than passing fair. When the Grand Monarque 



222 THE GREEDY BOOK 

became queasy and past his prime, Madame 
invented, out of her own powdered head, 
these cutlets, which in their envelopes of 
paper (en papillotes) guarded the royal diges- 
tion against the evils of too much grease. 
Again, Cailles a la Mirepoix owe their origin 
to the Marshal of that name ; Poulardes 
a la Montmorency were actually first cooked 
by the Duke de Montmorency ; Petites 
Bouchees h la Reine are called after Maria 
Leczinska, wife of Louis Quinze ; and 
filets de Volaille h la Bellevue were evolved for 
the King by the Pompadour, who excelled 
in the dainty manipulation of her silver 
batterie de cuisine. 

The Regent Orleans is responsible for 
pain a la d'Orleans, a very light and digest- 
ible form of bread ; and his daughter, the 
Duchesse de Berri, first conceived and 
executed those delightful morsels filets de 
lapereau a la Berri. The Duchess de Villeroy, 
afterwards Mar6chale de Luxembourg, a 
brilliant light of the Court of the fifteenth 
Louis, thought out, cooked, and christened 
the poulets a la Villeroy, which remain, and 
deservedly so, a toothsome and delightful 



DISHES OF HISTORY 223 

dish, even unto this day. The Chartreuse 
a la Mauconseil is called after the Marquise 
of that name ; and the Vol-au-Vent a la 
Nesle, which is still often met with, though 
not always classically cooked, derives its 
name from the Marquis de Nesle (not he of 
the Tower), who refused a peerage " to 
remain premier marquis of France." 

In rather earlier days the Marquis de 
Bdchamel invented a cream sauce for turbot 
and cod which still, if somewhat perverted, 
perpetuates his name. Gigot a la Mailly 
was the result of profound study on the 
part of the first mistress of Louis XV, who 
by her culinary art attempted, and succeeded, 
in alienating the royal affection from her 
own sister, who was an undesirable rival. 
Soupe a la Condi was, in later years, called 
after the famous cousin of Louis XVIII ; and 
the Prince de Soubise, notorious under 
Louis XV for giving great dinners, and 
paying nobody but his cooks and the young 
ladies of the opera, lent his name, through 
his cook, Bertrand, to the onion sauce 
which we still hold dear. 

French cooks of the seventeenth and 



224 THE GREEDY BOOK 

eighteenth centuries who did honour to their 
employers by christening magnificent crea- 
tions after them only copied previous Apician 
artists, who, according to the "De Opsoniis," 
named their inventions after Varro, Julius 
Matius, Julius Fronto, Celsinius, Vitellius, 
Commodus, and Didius Julianus. But the 
chefs of the golden age of cookery also 
delighted to honour men of comparatively 
humble station who took a keen and semi- 
professional interest in the art of la gueule, as 
Montaigne calls it. 

There was, for instance, a certain petit abbi, 
lepere Douillet, to whom much honour is done 
in those four delightful volumes of cook-lore 
entitled " Les Soupers de la Cour." They 
were published in 1755, and were written or 
compiled by one Manon, a literary cook of 
the period to whom reference has already 
been made. The abbe appears to have been 
much appreciated by the author, for his 
books contain delectable recipes for Poulets, 
Brocket, Merlans, Cailles, and Champignons, 
all au Pere Douillet, not, it will be noticed, 
a la {maniere de) Pere Douillet, but just au 
Pere Douillet, a rare and great distinction. 



DISHES OF HISTORY 225 

The best-known official cooks of Louis XV 
were Moustier and Vincent de la Chapelle. 
The latter is responsible for a very serious 
and noteworthy cookery book which has 
never lacked honour in its own and other 
countries. De la Gorse mentions a dinner 
given by the King, at St. Hubert, where all 
the dishes were prepared by the distinguished 
guests, such as the Prince de Beaufremont, 
the Marquis de Polignac, the Duke de 
Goutant, the Duke d'Ayen, the Duke de 
Coigny, and the Duke de la Valli^re ; the 
King himself contributed a Poularde au 
Basilic. 

Such a famous gourmet as Richelieu 
naturally has left his mark in culinary litera- 
ture. We have the Chartreuse h la Cardinal, 
Boudin de foulet h la Richelieu^ Gigot a la 
Richelieu, and many more. The rather 
famous potage h la Camerani, a most excellent 
concoction, is called after a notability of that 
name, to whom Grimod de la Reynifere 
dedicated volume one of his immortal 
"Almanach des Gourmands," as "one of 
the most erudite epicures of France." 

King Stanislas Leszcnyski of Poland in- 



226 THE GREEDY BOOK 

vented the Baba to make amends for the 
harshness of his own name, which the 
French tongue found hard to pronounce. 
Its original ingredients were German yeast, 
flour, butter, eggs, cream, sugar, saffron, 
candied peel, raisins, currants, and Madeira, 
Malaga,or rum. According to Brillat-Savarin, 
the Baba is especially beloved by women ; 
" it renders' her more plastic, and man more 
expansive — only to look at it the eyes laugh 
and the heart sings." 

Who thinks nowadays of the battle when 
he degustates Poulet h la Marengo ? And yet 
nothing is more authentic than its inception 
on that memorable occasion. The battle 
occurred, it may be remembered, on 14 June, 
1800. Napoleon had, naturally, a somewhat 
hurried meal. There was no butter in 
camp, but plenty of sound olive oil. So the 
casserole was bottomed with oil, to which was 
added the garlic and the mignonette. The 
fowl was then moistened with white wine 
and garnished with sippets of toast, mush- 
rooms, and morels, in default of truffles. 
The result was pronounced to be exquisite. 
Nowadays we omit the mignonette and sub- 



DISHES OF HISTORY 227 

stitute a bay leaf, thyme, and parsley ; 
garlic is thought to be too strong, so we use 
shalot ; the mushrooms are still permitted, 
but we ignore the morels. And so we have 
the Poulet a la Marengo. 

Literature has been honoured by Cardme 
in his Soupe a la Lamartine, history in Potage 
a la Dumesnil, philosophy in Puree Buffon, and 
just before the death of the great artist 
he invented a vegetable soup which he 
christened Soupe h la Victor Hugo. This 
same cook paid the doctor who cured him of 
indigestion by dedicating to him his Perche a 
la Gaubert. In rather later years we find a 
Poularde a la George Sand invented by 
Azema, formerly chef at Prince's. It is 
stewed in white wine, flavoured with crayfish 
butter and tails, truffles and olives, with a 
garnishing of feuilletage. 

The stage is ever prominent in gastro- 
nomic annals ; it must suffice to mention 
Filets de Sole h la Belle Otero, Peche Melba, 
Croustades a la Coquelin, Salade Rachel, and 
Consommi Sarah Bernhardt, all of which are 
nowadays fairly standard dishes. 

Although no man was ever more sus- 



228 THE GREEDY BOOK 

ceptible to flattery and adulation than 
Alexandre Dumas (j>ere), yet there were 
marked degrees in the way in which he 
accepted such complimentary tribute and 
homage, varying from the mere merci, mon 
cher^ in reply to congratulations on a recently 
published book, to a cordial embrace and the 
swearing of an everlasting friendship to the 
man who praised his cooking. 

Dumas's partiality for travelling and 
hunting developed his culinary instincts, and 
he has related in his " Journey through 
Spain " how dire necessity suggested to him 
the excellence of salad mixed without oil or 
vinegar. References to cookery are scattered 
here and there all through his works, par- 
ticularly in his " Impressions de Voyage," 
and again in his " Propos d'Art et de 
Cuisine," wherein occurs the famous 
" Causerie Culinaire," embodying the recipe 
for " macaroncello " and the delightful 
address to his readers, " Je prie Dieu qu'il 
vous tienne en bon app6tit, vous conserve 
en bon estomac, et vous garde de faire de 
la litt^rature." 

The author of " An Englishman in Paris " 



DISHES OF HISTORY 229 

describes how he watched Dumas cook a 
whole dinner, consisting of " soupe aux 
choux," a wonderful carp, " ragout de 
mouton k la hongroise," " roti de faisans," 
and a " salade japonaise." He adds : " I 
never dined like that before or after — not 
even a week later, when Dr. V^ron and 
Sophie made the amende honorable in the 
Rue Taitbout." 

In the kitchen, as in the theatre, the great 
novelist was master of all difficulties. He • 
delighted to make a triumph of an oppor- 
tunity of which others would only have 
made a failure. For himself he would have 
been content with a couple of eggs ; but if, 
as he wrote, he heard the cook complaining, 
" What shall I do .'' There are twenty to 
dinner this evening, and I have only three 
tomatoes left ' for my sauce ! It is im- 
possible ! " then the master would lift his 
head and cry, " Let me see what I can do ! " 

So saying, he would rush headlong into 
the kitchen just as he was in his usual work- 
ing dress, with his shirt-sleeves rolled up 
above his elbows, and calling everybody in 
the place round him to watch his prowess. 



230 THE GREEDY BOOK 

he would labour among the stewpans for. a 
good hour, ordering all those who had 
followed him to the kitchen to diiFerent 
menial tasks — one to slice the carrots, one 
to peel potatoes, one to chop up herbs — 
turning them all into scullions in fact. 

The blustering, boisterous genius as easily 
dominated the kitchen as he did the literary 
world of the time. His cooking was energy 
and bustle personified. Meat and butter 
were mingled with fine wines in the sauce- 
pans, half a dozen sauces were being watched 
in the bain-marie, and all the while he was 
cracking jokes and laughing at them most 
loudly himself. 

It was a wonderful and inspiring sight, 
and, as may be imagined, Dumas seasoned 
the conversation as well as the dishes with 
the spice qf his wit and humour. No matter 
how serious his thoughts had been a few 
moments before, it seemed as if the atmo- 
sphere of the kitchen had the power to dissi- 
pate them. He forgot all his ever-present 
cares, and was radiant with grease and 
hilarity. 

Then suddenly, without the slightest 



DISHES OF HISTORY 231 

warning, he would utter a melodramatic 
scream and rush out of the kitchen to his 
study. He had remembered the final dinou- 
ment of a scene he had left unfinished. He 
would reinstate himself at his writing-table 
and take up the thread of the story as if no 
interruption whatever had occurred. Many 
a dish that delighted his guests was cooked 
in this extraordinary fashion, between two 
thrilling chapters, and the wonderful part 
about his culinary work was that the very 
dishes and ingredients seemed in some un- 
accountable way to accommodate themselves 
to his casual and erratic manner. What 
would have been utterly ruined under any 
other chef seemed to succeed even extra 
well under his neglect. 

Lacroix {le bibliophile Jacob) said of him : 
" Assuredly it is a great attainment to be a 
romancist, but it is by no means a mediocre 
glory to be a cook. Romancist or cook, 
Dumas is a chef, and the two vocations 
appear in him to go hand in hand, or, rather, 
to be joined in one." 

Dumas often said, "When I have time I 
shall write a cookery book." This was to 



232 THE GREEDY BOOK 

be the crowning work of his literary career. 
He was constantly enumerating the vast 
sums which he alleged had been oflFered to 
him by various publishing houses for the 
right to produce this magnum opus. 

It is not generally known that in the 
agreement which he made with the brothers 
Michael Levy, in connexion with the rights 
of reproduction of his works already written 
and those that he had contracted to write in 
the future, he made the single exception of 
the famous forthcoming cookery book. 

The great work " LaGrand^Dictionnaire 
de la Cuisine," of 1 152 pages, was eventually 
written in 1869 ; the manuscript was de- 
livered to the publisher, Alphonse Lemerre, 
in 1870, and whilst the book was in the 
press the author died and the Franco- 
Prussian War broke out. 

Its publication was therefore delayed 
until 1873, when it appeared with a dedica- 
tion to D. J. Vuillemot, a noted Mtelier, who 
had managed the Caft de la France, and 
had then opened on his own account, in 
1862, a restaurant near the Madeleine, 
which proved a most disastrous failure. He 



DISHES OF HISTORY 233 

had been previously the proprietor of the 
Hotel de la Cloche et de la Bouteille at 
Compiegne. Dumas had made his acquaint- 
ance when hunting in the vicinity, and was 
afterwards in the habit of taking refuge 
with him when he wanted to be undisturbed 
in his literary work. 

The arrest of some of the personages in 
" Monte Cristo " takes place at Vuillemot's 
hotel, and Dumas christened after him the 
famous Lapin h la Vuillemot, which, he says, 
" You must absolutely have killed your- 
self." 

The great dictionary is perhaps something 
of a disappointment. It is laboured, un- 
spontaneous, and, save in the characteristic 
preface, hardly worthy of its illustrious 
author. Nevertheless it is vast in its com- 
prehensiveness, for, besides every imaginable 
dish, old and new, of the so-called legitimate 
cuisine, it includes receipts for lambs' tails 
glacees h la chicoree, elephants' feet, fillets of 
kangaroo flesh, snails a la Provenfale, and 
directions as to the right treatment of the 
babiroussa, or wild Asian pig. 

Contrary to his usual custom elsewhere, 



234 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Dumas gives full credit to the other culinary 
authors whom he quotes, and he includes 
recipes from such acknowledged authorities 
as Brabant, Grimod de la Reyniere, Magny, 
Grignon, Car^me, Vefour, and others. 

He gives thirty-one methods of cooking 
carp, and sixteen for treating artichokes. 
There is to be found also the Javanese for- 
mula for cooking halcyons' nests, and an 
elaborate essay on the hocco. 

The appendix consists of the celebrated 
" Etude sur la Moutarde," which is a most 
flagrant reclame of la maison Bornibus, but is 
amusing for its sheer effrontery and impu- 
dence. There was always something colossal 
about the man, even when he wrote about 
mustard. 

In Moliere's " Le Bourgeois Gentil- 
homme " (Activ. sc. i), in the scene between 
Dorante and Dorimene, we find this delight- 
ful passage : — 

" Si Damis s'en etait m^l6, tout serait dans 
les regies ; il y aurait partout de I'^l^gance 
et de I'^rudition, et il ne manquerait pas de 
vous exagdrer lui-m^me toutes les pieces du 
repas qu'il vous donnerait, et de vous faire 



DISHES OF HISTORY 235 

tomber d'accord de sa haute capacite dans la 
science des bons morceaux ; de vous parler 
d'vxn pain de rive a biseau dore, relev6 de 
croiite partout, croquant tendrement sous la 
dent ; d'un vin a seve veloutee, arme d'un 
verre qui n'est point trop commandant ; 
d'un carre de mouton gourmande de persil ; 
d'une longe de veau de riviere, longue 
comme cela, blanche, delicate, et qui, sous 
les dents, est une vraie pate d'amande ; 
de perdrix relevees d'un fumet surprenant ; 
et pour son opera, d'une soupe a bouillon 
perle, sontenue d'un jeune gros dindon, 
cantonnde de pigeonneaux et couronee 
d'oignons maries avec de la chicorde." 

From this dinner-programme the taste of 
the day may fairly be gauged, and it will not 
be forgotten that it is in this immortal play 
that the famous line occurs : — 

Je vis de bonne soupe, et non de beau langage ; 

which is so often quoted and misquoted. 

But cooks are a trying and troublesome 
race, with extraordinarily perverse traditions 
of their own, a frequent antipathy to learn 
anything new, and an absolutely ridiculous 



236 THE GREEDY BOOK 

partiality to "improve" old-fashioned dishes 
according to their own ideas. There ought 
to be condign punishment meted out to any 
cook who makes any so-called alteration or 
improvement to any well-known standard- 
ized dish, of which the composition, flavour, 
and artistic completeness have been settled 
once and for all, and to touch which is some- 
thing akin to sacrilege. 

Really good, intelligent, careful cooks get 
on in their profession, and often end up by 
opening establishments of their own. iVIany 
a restaurant proprietor has qualified as a 
first-class chef. 

Does any one, by the way, know the 
origin of the word " restaurant " .'' You 
may search your encyclopaedia in vain ; but 
the matter is really as simple as shelling peas. 
The first public eating-house, as distinct 
from the rttisseur, who cooked food " to be 
eaten oifthe premises," was opened in Paris 
by a cook called Boulanger in 1750. Over 
his shop he displayed a sign bearing this in- 
scription in kitchen Latin : " Venite omnes 
qui stomacho laboretis, et ego restaurabo 
vos." This was taken up, gallicized, and 



DISHES OF HISTORY 237 

passed into common parlance. Hence our 
modern use of the term, which, after all, is 
only a hundred and fifty years old. 

In rereading an old book by the never-to- 
be-forgotten Guy de Maupassant I came 
across a delightful passage which so aptly 
describes the feelings of a true gourmet that 
I am tempted to transcribe it here for the 
benefit of all who belong to that noble fra- 
ternity. " To be wanting in the sense of 
taste is to have a stupid mouth, just as one 
may have a stupid mind. A man who cannot 
distinguish between a langouste and a lobster, 
between a herring — that admirable fish that 
carries within it all the savours and aromas 
of the sea — and a mackerel or a whiting, is 
comparable only to a man who could con- 
found Balzac with Eugene Sue, and a sym- 
phony by Beethoven with a military march 
composed by some regimental bandmaster." 

This delicacy of taste was obviously de- 
nied to Mr. G. Bernard Shaw's Uncle James 
in " Man and Superman," of whom it is 
written : — 

" Uncle James had a first-rate cook ; he 
couldn't digest anything except what she 



238 THE GREEDY BOOK 

cooked. Well, the poor man was shy and 
hated society. But his cook was proud of 
her skill, and wanted to serve up dinners to 
princes and ambassadors. To prevent her 
from leaving him, that poor old man had to 
give a big dinner twice a month, and suffer 
agonies of awkwardness." 

Another writer of to-day, of quite pecu- 
liar charm and knowledge, Mr. E.H. Cooper, 
in his novel " A Fool's Year," has a delight- 
ful description of a modern London dinner- 
party, of the sort too often met with in the 
houses of those who ought to know so much 
better, 

" Mr. Hopper's dinner was a thing to be 
remembered rather than eaten. ' The things 
ought to be put into a museum of curiosi- 
ties,' said St. Ives, looking round him 
wearily ; ' not on a decent English dinner- 
table. I've had some turtle-soup and a bit 
of tongue smothered in jam, and now I'm 
hungry. Would there be a row if I sent 
for some bread and cheese ? Strawberries as 
big as peaches, and peaches as big as young 
footballs, may be very remarkable to look 
at, but I'm not going to eat them. That 



DISHES OF HISTORY 239 

waiter looks kind ; I'm going to ask him to 
bring me a piece of Stilton hidden between 
two biscuits. Don't give me away, Lady 
Merton. I'll do you a good turn when I 
find you starving at a banquet of this kind. 
But you know better than to come to one 
without eating a couple of muffins and half 
a pound of plum-cake first.' " 

The clamour as to the inefficiency of the 
typical " plain cook " is incessant and fully 
justified. The remedies suggested are usually 
futile or inexpedient. Nothing is more 
difficult than to get a simple meal well 
cooked. Nothing is more easy, in London 
at any rate, than to get a misdescribed semi- 
French dinner evilly cooked. Is there no 
way out of this quandary ? Yes. It consists 
in the training and apprenticing of British- 
born boys to- the profession of cookery. 

For many years past all the leading men- 
cooks in clubs, restaurants, and large private 
establishments have been, practically without 
exception, foreigners, whether French, Swiss, 
or Italian. 

In Braithwaite's "Rules and Orders for 
the Government of the House of an Earl," 



240 THE GREEDY BOOK 

published in the seventeenth century, the 
author writes : " In ancient times noblemen 
contented themselves to be served with such 
as had been bred in their own houses, 
but of late times none could please some but 
Italians and Frenchmen." 

It is much the same in our own day. The 
profession of cookery among Britons has 
died out, and, as a result, we are fed, outside 
our own homes, by scores of intelligent, 
well-educated, practised foreign cooks, who 
do their work, for the most part, excellently, 
but who could be replaced in time by the 
genuine home-trained article. 

Although France, and particularly the 
Midi, has produced the greatest cooks, there 
is no reason why England should lag behind. 
It is certain that many purely insular dishes, 
such as Irish stew, roast beef and Yorkshire 
pudding, tripe and onions, and such-like, 
can never be properly cooked by foreigners. 
They have not the tradition, and are too 
anxious to impart their own personal touch 
to the dish. 

It is quite true that a really great chef 
is as rare as a really great poet or a really 



DISHES OF HISTORY 241 

great general. But there is a lesser grade 
of thoroughly competent chef who may 
most certainly be evolved from the well- 
educated middle-class boy of to-day. The 
efforts of the Food and Cookery A ssociation 
of London towards this end should be 
actively supported by all those who are 
interested in the nationalization of the 
kitchen and the reform of our digestion. 





Festina knte 



The most strenuous Lenten faster on record 
was, I venture to think, St. Macarius, who 
was annually in the habit of passing forty 
days and forty nights in a standing position 
with no more substantial support than a 
few raw cabbage-leaves on each recurring 
Sunday. 

Simeon Stylites was even more abstemious, 
for he ate nothing from the beginning to the 
end of Lent, passing his time in praying 
and bowing from his columnar elevation. 
An admiring monk has placed it upon 
record that, possibly by way of assuaging 
the pangs of hunger, Simeon made on one 
day twelve hundred and forty-four separate 
and distinct bows. 

242 



LENTEN FARE 243 

It is doubtless an excellent thing to have 
the strength of mind and body to be able 
to act up to one's convictions. We should 
find it difficult to realize the idea of a Bishop 
of London never breaking his fast till the 
evening, and then being satisfied with a 
solitary egg, an inch of bj^ad, and a cup of 
miilk and water ; such, nowever, was the 
daily Lenten fare of St. Cedd, a predecessor 
of Dr. Winnington Ingram in the Metro- 
politan diocese. 

It is told of St. Francis of Assisi that he 
ate nothing dressed by. fire, unless he were 
very ill, and even then he caused it to be 
covered with ashes, or dipped into cold 
water. His common daily food was dry 
bread strewn with ashes, but — the historian 
adds — he did not condemn his followers to 
the rigorous diet which he himself observed. 
" Brother Ass," as he familiarly called that 
self, was, in his own opinion, worthy of 
no better fare. 

But there is another and lighter side to 
the picture. The Roman Catholic Church, 
especially the upper classes thereof, in long 
bygone times, did not always submit 



244 THE GREEDY BOOK 

patiently to the stricter ethics of fasting. 
Kings and princes used to send medical 
and theological certificates to the Pope, 
begging humbly to be allowed to eat meat. 
The Holy Father was even begged to adjudi- 
cate on individual dishes. Pope Zacharias 
forbade roast hare. Under Pope John XXII 
the Franciscans were much vexed as to 
whether they really owned the soup that they 
ate, or whether they only had the bare usufruct 
thereof. As only three or four of them 
were burned as martyrs, and no thrones 
were overset nor provinces ravaged, Voltaire 
termed these debates about niceties of diet 
des sottises paisibks. 

In the reign of Henry VIII the minutes 
of the Lenten dinner included such fish 
as : a whole ling, great jowls of salt salmon, 
great salt eels, great jowls of salt sturgeon, 
fresh ling, fresh turbot, great pike, great 
jowls of fresh salmon, great rudds, baked 
turbots, salmon chines, roasted lampreys 
and roasted lamprons, great burbutts, and 
— when the fishing season was favour- 
able — porpoise, sea-wolf, grampus, and 
whale. 



LENTEN FARE 245 

A fairly compendious epitome of fish- 
food, but information is lacking as to the 
modes of preparation. 

The most sensible remark on the fasting 
question was probably made by Erasmus, 
who said, when he was asked why he did 
not fast : " My mind is Catholic, but my 
stomach is Lutheran." But then Erasmus 
was a very broad-minded sort of person. It 
is only necessary to read the finest novel in 
the English language, Charles Reade's 
" Cloister and the Hearth," to realize" that 
fact. 

For the dozenth time I was rereading 
" Eothen " the other day, and came upon 
a curious passage. Speaking of Smyrna, 
Kinglake says : " The number of murders 
committed during Lent is greater, I am told, 
than at any other time of the year. A man 
under the influence of a bean dietary (for 
this is the principal food of the Greeks 
during their fasts) will be in an apt humour 
for enriching the shrine of his saint, and 
passing a knife through his next-door neigh- 
bour." Que Messieurs les vegkeriens commen- 
cent ! What do they say to this } Do they 



246 THE GREEDY BOOK 

feel especially bloodthirsty during Lent, or 
— being all-the-year-round vegetarians — do 
they lust after gore with any peculiar 
avidity ? 

It is curious to note that our favourite 
Lenten fare, salted cod and egg-sauce, to 
wit, is, strictly speaking, quite wrong. Eggs 
are not permissible food, and the orthodox 
eschew them altogether during their je- 



In Spain, during the crusades and the war 
with" the Moors, a practice arose of permit- 
ting, in certain cases, the substitution of a 
contribution to the holy war for the obser- 
vance of the Lenten abstinence, and although 
the object has long since ceased, the com- 
position is still permitted under the same 
title of Cruzada. 

In the seventh century a Council sitting 
at Toledo declared those who ate meat 
during Lent to be sinners unworthy to take 
part in the Resurrection. From that time 
until the eleventh century, when a gradual 
reaction set in, the laws of fasting and the 
punishments inflicted upon the transgress- 
ors became more and more strict ; interdict 



LENTEN FARE 247 

and excommunication were among the 
penalties. 

By degrees these became so numerous 
and different in kind that they were divided 
into 

Jejunium generate — a fast binding for all. 

Consuetudinarium — local fast. 

Penkentiale — atonement for all transgressions. 

Vottvum — consequent upon a vow. 

Voluntare — for the better carrying out of an 
undertaking. 

These again were kept as 

Jejunium naturale — an entire abstinence from food 

or drink. 
Abstinentia — certain food only, but several times 

a day. 
Jejunium cum abstinentia — the same food, but only 

once a day. 
Jejunium sine abstinentia — all kinds of food, but 

only once a day. 

The prohibited food on partial fast days 
included, during certain periods, not only 
the flesh of quadrupeds, fowl, and fish, but 
also the lacticinia^ which means all that 
comes from quadrupeds and birds, such as 
eggs, milk, butter, and the like. 



248 THE GREEDY BOOK 

There are many allusions in old plays to 
those folk who do not fast through Lent. 
For instance, in Skelton's " Colin Clout " 
(1500) is the following passage : — 

Men call you thereforr prophanes, 

Ye pieke no shrimps nor pranes ; 

Salt fish, stockfish, nor herring, 

It is not for your wearing. 

Nor in holy Lenten season, 

Ye will neither Beanes nor Peasen, 

But ye look to be let loose. 

To a pigge or to a goose. 

There is comparatively little strictness 
now as to Lenten food, but it is always an 
excuse for excellent maigre dining, and the 
cook who cannot prepare a thoroughly good 
appetising and satisfying maigre menu is 
unworthy of his calling. 

One Good Friday I was dining at a very 
excellent French provincial hotel, the Hotel 
du Chapeau-Rouge at Dunkirk, and the 
following most cleverly fashioned menu 
confronted me at dinner : — 



LENTEN FARE 249 

MENU 

Huitres. 

Potage Longchamps. 

Bouchees Dunkerquoises. 

Barbue, Sauce d'Isigny. 

Pommes Nouvelles. 

Petit Pois a la Fran9aise. 

Salade Primeur. 

Saumon a la Russe. 

Ecrevisses de la Meuse. 

Gateau Pitheviers. 

Fruits. 

Here is another Lenten dinner, quite 
diiFerent in conception, but equally good in 
execution. It is a very artistic little pro- 
duction. 

MENU 

Caviar d'Astrackan. 

Bisque d'Ecrevisses. 

Truite braisee au Clicquot. 

Sarcelle Rotie. 

Salade. 

Petits Pois nouveaux a la Fran^aise. 

Coupe Petit Due. 

Corbeille de Friandises. 

Dessert. 

A few years ago a noted French gourmet 



250 THE GREEDY BOOK 

was taunted with the alleged fact that it was 
quite impossible to order a really expensive 
maigre dinner ; he retorted, as any sane 
gourmet naturally would, that it was the 
easiest thing in the world. He was given 
carte blanche, and the following was the 

result : — 

Caviar frais. 

Huitres (Natives). 

CEufs Grand-Due. 

Bouchees Joinville. 

Truite saumonee au Chambertin. 

Sarcelles roties. 

Salade Esperance. 

Aspic de homard en Bellevue. 

Asperges sauce Mousseline. 

Souffle au kirsch. 

Corbeilles de fruits. 

Cafe. 

VINS. 

Eau-de-vie russe. 

Chablis, 1890. 

Johannisberg, 1 886. 

Chateau-Leoville Poyferre, 1878. 

Romanee-Conti, 1865. 

Champagne frappe Baikal (extra-dry), '84. 

Chateau-Yquem, 1 869. 
Grande fine-champagne Napoleon, 1800. 



LENTEN FARE 251 

The dinner for four was exquisite, and 
the wines extraordinary. The total cost 
was just over twenty-five pounds. 

In that delightful book, " Mrs. Brookfield 
and Her Circle," by Charles and Frances 
Brookfield, thefe is this postscript to a letter 
written by the husband to his wife : " On 
the carte of the Carlton Club the day before 
yesterday (the General Fast) was to be seen 
these words : ' The Committee, taking into 
consideration that the observance of a General 
Fast has been ordained, have directed that 
the coffee-room dinner shall be confined 
strictly to — Two Soups. Fish. Plain Joints. 
Spring Tarts. -Omelettes. Cheese.' " 

Another story from the same book, which 
although it has nothing whatever to do with 
Lent, has, perhaps, with food and feeding, 
runs as follows : " The new bishop of 
New Zealand, in a farewell and pathetic 
interview with his mother, after his appoint- 
ment, was thus addressed by her in such 
sequence as sobs and tears would permit : 
' I suppose they will eat you, my dear — I 
try to think otherwise, but I suppose they 
will. Well ! — We must leave it in the hands 



252 THE GREEDY BOOK 

of Providence. But if they do — mind, my 
dear, and disagree with them.'" 

That some at least of the less abstinent 
monks made very hearty meals and were 
quite valiant trenchermen, whether it were 
fast day or no, is a matter of history. At 
a splendid dinner given by the Legate 
of Avignon to the Prior of Chartreux, a 
superb fish, cooked to perfection and likely 
to have tempted the Pope himself had he 
been present, was handed to the Prior. He 
helped himself and was on the eve of eating, 
when one of the brothers said to him : " My 
father, do not touch that, it is not maigre. 
I went into the kitchen, and I saw things 
that would make you shudder ; the sauce 
that you fancy is made from carrots and 
onions is made from ham and rabbits." 
" My brother, you talk too much and are 
too curious," replied the father ; "the kitchen 
is not your place, and curiosity is a grievous 
sm. 

Beckford of " Vathek " fame gives a glow- 
ing account of the monastery of Alcoba9a, 
and particularly of the kitchen thereof: 
"Through the centre of the immense and 



LENTEN FARE 253 

groined hall, not less than sixty feet in 
diameter, ran a brisk rivulet of the clearest 
water, flowing through pierced wooden 
reservoirs, containing every sort and size of 
the finest river fish. On one side loads of 
game and venison were heaped up ; on the 
other vegetables and fruit in endless variety. 
Beyond a long line of stores, extended a 
row of ovens, and close to them hillocks of 
wheaten flour, whiter than snow, rocks of 
sugar, jars of the purest oil, and pastry in 
vast abundance, which a numerous tribe of 
lay-brothers and their attendants were roll- 
ing out and puffing up into a hundred 
different shapes, singing all the while as 
blithely as larks in- a cornfield." After 
describing the elaborate composition of the 
daily banquet of the monks, the author 
describes " a certain truffle cream which 
was so exquisite that the Lord Abbot piously 
gave thanks for it." 

A famous London character in the time of 
" Frazer's Magazine " was Serjeant Murphy, 
M.P. for Cork. An acquaintance of Mur- 
phy's was constantly addicted to boasting 
of his aristocratic friends, At a dinner- 



254 THE GREEDY BOOK 

party where there were several Roman 
Catholics present, conversation centred 
round the subject of fasting, when the 
Serjeant's friend struck in : " It is very 
strange how little the highest ranks regard 
fast days. I was dining at the Duke of 
Norfolk's on a fast day three weeks ago, 
and there was not a bit of fish at dinner." 
" I suppose," said Murphy, in the midst of 
the deep silence that followed, " that they 
had eaten it all in the dining-room." 
Chaucer writes of a man who 

Full many a patrich had he in mewe, 

And many a breme and many a luce in stew. 

The stew was, of course, the monkish 
fish-pond, which has almost disappeared 
since the Reformation. The luce is the 
jack or pike of the fishermen, and is often 
found as a pun upon the family name of 
Lucy, which bears the pike as a charge. 
Richard de Lucie, who defended the castle 
of Falaise against Geoffry of Anjou, was 
Lord Diss in Norfolk ; he was also Sheriff 
of Essex in the reign of Henry II, and 
built the castle of Ongar. Sir Richard 



LENTEN FARE 255 

Lucy, Lord Chief Justice of England, 
founded Lesnes Priory, near Erith, and 
dying in 11 79, was buried within its walls. 
An antiquary named Weever, who had seen 
his tomb in 1630, states that upon the belt 
of the figure of the knight the fleur-de-lis, 
or fleur-de-luce, the rebus or name device 
of the Lucys, was sculptured in many 
places. The fleur-de-lis was here used in 
a doubly figurative sense for a pike or 
spear, to the head of which it bears some 
resemblance. 

This is more particularly shown in the 
Cantelupe arms, gules, a fess vaire between 
three leopards' heads jessant fleur-de-lis. 
The arms of Lucy are also among the 
quarterings borne by th^ faniily of Low- 
ther, the head of which is, of course, Lord 
Lonsdale. 

Certain fish, evidently intended for pike 
or luces, in the pavement of the Chapter 
House at Westminster may possibly allude 
to the early tradition that St. Peter's Church 
was first built by King Lucius. 

The ged and the pike are synonymous in 
North Britain, whence the Scots family of 



256 THE GREEDY BOOK 

Ged bear for arms, azure, three geds, or 
pike, hauriant argent ; Sir Walter Scott 
alludes to this play upon the name in Red 
Gauntlet. " The heralds," he says, " who 
make graven images offish, fowls, and beasts, 
assigned the ged for their device and escut- 
cheon, and hewed it over their chimneys, 
and placed above their tombs the fish called 
a jack, pike, or luce, and in our tongue, a 
ged." _ , 

Of this family was William Ged, an 
Edinburgh printer, who employed a stereo- 
typing process as early as 1725. The Geddes, 
a very ancient family of Tweeddale, bear for 
arms, gules, an escutcheon between three 
luces' heads couped argent. 

Much of the good purpose of a close ad- 
herence to strict Lenten fare has no doubt 
been lost by our continued neglect of the 
manifold uses of herbs. 

Amid all the talking and writing about 
vegetarianism very little attention seems to 
have been paid to the undoubted impor- 
tance of the herb garden. 

Our forefathers believed implicitly in the 
virtues of herbs, and extolled them in 



LENTEN FARE 257 

prose and verse. According to one of the 
old Roxburghe Ballads : — 

Here's pennyroyal and marygolds, 

Come, buy my nettle-tops. 

Here's water-cresses and scurvy-grass, 

Come, buy my sage of virtue, ho ! 

Come, buy my wormwood and mugworts. 

Here's all fine herbs of every sort ; 

Here's southernwood that's very good, 

Dandelion and horseleek. 

Here's dragon's-tongue and wood-sorrel, 

"With bear's-foot and horehound. 

Let none despise the merry, merry cries 

Of famous London Town ! 

Most of these formerly well-known herbs, 
each having its own peculiar curative quality, 
are nowadays practically unknown, but a 
reference to old John Parkinson, or the 
herbals of Gerard or Turner, or the 
" Acetaria " of John Evelyn, would readily 
show that they were good for the various ills 
to which flesh is heir. The very earliest 
medicaments were largely composed of 
herbs, and even to-day the learned prescrip- 
tion of a Harley Street two-guinea specialist 
usually contains at least one ingredient 



258 THE GREEDY BOOK 

which, under a more formal Latin name, 
is neither more nor less than a "garden 
simple " or herb. 

The common marigold, for instance, which 
Gerard calls " the Jackanapes-on-Horse- 
back," was at one time much used for soups 
or "pottages." In Miss Edgeworth's story 
of " Simple Susan " she explains how the 
petals of marigolds were added, as the last 
touch, to the broth made for an invalid 
mother. Evelyn compares the common 
bugloss to the nepenthe of Homer, but 
adds that what we now call bugloss was not 
that of the ancients, but rather borage, " for 
the like virtue named corrago." 

Smallage was, of course, simply wild 
celery, which Parkinson says is " somewhat 
like parsley, but greater, greener, and more 
bitter." Sweet cicely, or sweet chervil, is a 
kind of myrrh — " it adds a marvellous good 
relish to a sallet," and the roots may be 
preserved or candied. The genial Cul- 
pepper, in his " English Physician En- 
larged" (1565), has much to say as to 
the astrological virtues of the different 
herbs, and although his ascription of plants 



LENTEN FARE 259 

to their respective planets must be taken 
cum gram salts, yet he is wonderfully 
near the mark in many instances which he 
quotes as to the effect of the herb if taken 
as a medicine. This, for instance, is what 
he has to say about balm : " It is a herb of 
Jupiter and under Cancer, and strengthens 
nature much in all its, actions. It causeth 
the mind and heart to become merry and 
reviveth the heart, especially of such who 
are overtaken in sleep, and driveth away all 
troublesome cares and thoughts out of the 
mind arising from melancholy or black 
choler." 

Nowadays we certainly neglect herbs, 
although here and there an old-fashioned 
gardener plants his herbs from year to year. 
There are still quaint old herb shops in 
Covent Garden, where the " simples " of 
our grandmothers may be bought ; and 
there are curious customs at the Guildhall 
and the Old Bailey of the presentation of 
bunches of herbs to the presiding justices 
as a reminiscence of the time when their 
perfume was supposed to counteract the 
germs of plague. 



26o THE GREEDY BOOK 

It is easy to cultivate a herb garden, and 
amid modern "improvements" of flowers 
of all sorts it imparts a delightful old-world 
fragrance to the completeness of the 
pleasaunce. Moreover, herbs make the 
most exquisite addition to nearly every 
form of cookery. 

Reverting to Lent and its customs, it is 
notable, according to old John Selden's 
"Table Talk" (1689), that "our meats and 
our sports, much of them, have relation to 
Church works. The coffin of our Christ- 
mas pies in shape long, is in imitation of the 
cratch ; our choosing kings and queens on 
Twelfth-night hath reference to the three 
kings. So, likewise, our eating of fritters, 
whipping of tops, roasting of herrings. Jack 
of Lents, etc. — they are all in imitation of 
Church works, emblems of martyrdom. Our 
tansies at Easter have reference to the bitter 
herbs ; though at the same time, it was 
always the fashion for a man to have a 
gammon of bacon to show himself to be no 
Jew." 

We have it (on perhaps somewhat doubt- 
ful authority) that the most ingenious method 



LENTEN FARE 261 

of fasting is that recorded in the " Mappe- 
monde Papistique," wherein it appears that 
a Venetian saint had certain boxes made like 
mass books, and these book-boxes were filled, 
some with Malmsey wine, and some with 
the fleshiest parts of capons and partridges. 
These were supposed to be books of devo- 
tion, and the saint is said to have lived long 
and grown fat on them, 

A peculiarly villainous form of torture 
was invented by Galeazzo Visconti (1355), 
which was known as Galeazzo's Lent, because 
it was guaranteed to prolong the life of the 
unfortunate victim for forty days. This 
seems to have been one of the few traits 
of inherited family cruelty in a man who 
otherwise was a sort of Maecenas of his 
time. He was a friend and patron of 
Petrarch, founded, under his direction, the 
University of Pavia, and brought together 
a considerable library. 

According to Walsh, it is not generally 
known that the use of flesh, meat, eggs, and 
milk during Lent was forbidden in England, 
not only by ecclesiastical but also by statute 
law, even into the time of William IH. Any 



262 THE GREEDY BOOK 

violation of- the law was followed by dire 
penalties. There is the case of the landlady 
of the Rose Tavern, St. Catherine's Tower, 
London, in whose house during the Lent 
of 1563 was found a quantity of raw and 
cooked meat. She and four other women 
who were proved to have partaken of the 
forbidden viands were put in the stocks all 
night. In 1570 was passed a statute making 
the penalties for violating the Lenten laws 
sixty shillings and three months imprison- 
ment. 

Finally, as an apposite curiosity, I will 
quote a curious dispensation granted two 
hundred and seventy-six years ago and 
formally recorded in the parish register of 
"Wakefield. 

" To all people to whom these presents 
shall come, James Lister, Vicar of Wake- 
field, and preacher of God's word, sendeth 
greeting : Whereas Alice Lister wife of 
Richard Lister Gierke who now soiourneth 
with her sonne Willm Paulden of Wake- 
field, by reason of her old age & many 
years & state, and long-contynued sickness 
is become so weake, and her stomack so 



LENTEN FARE 263 

colde, not able to digest colde meates and 
fish, who by the counsell of Physicions is 
advised to absteine from and to forbeare 
the eateng of all manner of fruits, fish and 
milk meates : Know yee therefoor for the 
causes aforesaide and for the better strength- 
ening & recovery of her health, I the saide 
James Lister do. hereby give & grant libertie 
and licence to her the saide Alice Lister att 
her will and pleasure att all tymes, as well 
during the tyme of Lent, as upon other 
fasting daies and fish dales (exhibiting by 
the laws to eate flesh) to dresse and eate 
such kind of fleshe as shal be best agreing 
to her stomach & weake appetite. In 
witnes hereof I the saide James Lister have 
hereunto sett my hand the eight day of 
ifebuary in the sixt year of the Reine of 
our Soveraigne Lord Charles by the Grace 
of God King of England Scotland flfrance 
and Ireland Defender of the Faith &c and 
in the yeare of our Lord god 1630 James 
Lister." 



INDEX 



Aberdour oysters, i66 

Abstinence, 247 

** Academy " menu, 1 39 

** Accomplish'd Housewife," 84 

" Accomplish'd Lady Rich's 

Closet," 109 
"Acetaria," 64, 257 
Acrostic dinner, 138 
Acton, Eliza, 151 
"Adam's Luxury and Eve's 

Cookery," 84 
Addison, 106 
^tius, 176 
Agris of Rhodes, 112 
"Alarm to all Persons," 84 
"Alchemist, The," 39 
'* Alice in Wonderland " menu, 

142 
"All's Well That EndsWell,"86 
"Aimanach des Gourmands," 

44, 225 
America and snails, 207 
American dinner, 117 
„ oysters, 183 
Araory, Blanche, 23 
Angel pie, 151 
Anthony, Saint, 63 
Apprenticeship of cooks, 239 
*' Archidipno," 71 
"Art of Cookery made Plain 

and Easy," 85 
" Art of Dining," 88 
Artificial snails, 213 
Arundel, Earl pf, 206, 209 
Ashburn (or Ashburner), Mrs., 8 5, 
"Atall, Dr.," 83 



Athanasius, Saint, 63 
Athenseus, 39, 178 
Athenian waiters, 201 
Atlantus, 112 
Austen, Jane, 22, 27 
Austrian snails, 215 
Autun, Bishop of, 206 
Avignon, Legate of, 252 
Ayen, Due d', 225 
Azema, 227 

B 

Baba, 226 
Babiroussa, 233 
Ball-supper menu, 147 
"Ballade of Simpson's," 53 
Ballantyne, James, 105 
Ballotlne de ^erdreau Sowuaroff^ 

Banana menu, 142^ 
Banks, Sir Joseph, 71 
Banville, Th. de, 42 
'Barbe de Capucin, 103 
Barlow on hasty pudding, 43 
Baskets, Luncheon, 99 
Bavarian menu, 150 
"B.C. The First Oyster,'' 168 
Beans as incentive to murder,245 
Beaufremont, Prince.de, 225 
Beaumont and Fletcher, 87 
Bechamel, Marquis de, 223 
Beckford, 252 
Beef, Corned, 37 
Beefsteaks, Society of, 57 
'Bihague, 12, 13 
Bell, Peter, 32 
Benger, 156 



265 



266 



INDEX 



Bennett, Mrs., 27 

Beranger, 42 

Berchoux, J., 46, 48 

Beresford, Rev. Mr., 82 

Berkeley Hotel, 25 

Berri, Duchesse de, 222 

Bertrand, 223 

Besant, Sir Walter, 104 

'Bihliofhile, Jacob le, 231 

Bin of fare, 139 

Bingley, 27 

Birch of Cornhill, 3 1 

Black, Professor, 217 

Blair, Mrs. Hy. W., 118 

Blake, Wm., 93 

'BUnis, 115, 149 

Blue Posts, Cork Street, 3 1 

" Book of Menus," 16 

*' Book without a Name,'' 3 

" Book of the Table," 14 

Booth, J. L. C, 202 

Borodino, Battle of, 90 

Bortsch, 22, 115 

Boswell, 82 

'\Boudin de Toulet h la Richelieu, 

225 

'Bouillabaisse, 42 

Boulanger, 236 

" Bourgeois Gentilhomme," 234 

Bradyphygia, 90 

Braithwaite, 239 

Brallaghan, 45 

Briggs, Richard, 126 

Brillat-Savarin, 11, 23, 175,226 

Bristol Waters, 40 

" British Birds," 45, 60, 72 

British boy cooks, 239 

British Waiters' Association, 200 

Brookfield, Chas., 75, 25 1 

**Brookfield, Mrs., and Her 

Circle," 251 
Browne, Sir Thomas, 62 
Browning, 42 
Burke, Edmund, 7 
Burns, 42 
Byron, Lord, 62, 68 



Cade, Jack, 63 

Cadmus, 15 

Cafe de la France, 232 

Cailles a la Mirepoix, 222 

"Cakes and Ale," 151 

Canard a la Rouentiaise, 146, 

147 
Capus, Alfred, 147 
CarafFa, Cardinal, 68 
Careme, 5, 97, 135, 227, 234 
Carlingford oysters, 166 
Carlton Club, 251 

„ Hotel, 22,93, 138, 149 
Carr, 88 

Carroll, Lewis, 170, 189 
" Causerie Culinaire," 228 
C. C.R., 61 
Cecil, Hotel, 26 
Cedd, Saint, 243 
Celsinius, 224 
Cervantes, 29 

Champeaux' Restaurant, 132 
Chapelle, Vincent de la, 225 
Chaptal, 70 
Chariades, 112 
Charles V of Spain, 206 
Chartreuse a la Cardinal, 225 
Chartreuse h la l\dauconseil, 223 
Chartreux, Prior of, 252 
Chateaubriand, Origin of, 132 
Chatillon-Plessis, 47 
Chaucer, 62 
Cheese recipe, 52 
Cheremetoff, Prince, 187 
" Cheshire Cheese," Fleet Street, 

31. 46 
Chesterton, G. K., 129 
Chicorie de Bruxelles, 103 
Chinese Books on Behaviour,! 10 
„ menu, 119 
„ restaurant, 118 
Christmas cookery, 125 
„ dinner, 128 
„ menus, 127, 128 
Cicero, 176 
Clams, 117 



INDEX 



267 



Clark, Sir Andrew, 157 

Cleopatra, 63 

" Clinker, Humphry," 6, 40 

Close, 148 

Clough, Arthur Henry, 43 

Cochin, 49 

Cogan, 67 

Coigny, Due de, 225 

"Cloister and the Hearth," 24 J 

Colchester epitaph, 166 

,, Oyster Feast, 180 
Coleridge, S., 42 
"Colin Clout," 248 
Collins, Mortimer, 45, 59, 72 
Commodus, 224 
" Compleat Cook," 84 
Consommi Sarah 'Bernhardt, 227 
" Cook Book, The Poetical," 43 
"Cookery, Art of," 44 
Cookery and Food Association, 

90 
Cookery of snails, 211 

„ Roman, 40 
" Cook-maid's Garland," 54 
"Cook's Director," 84 
Cooper, E. H., 238 
Cordon Bleu, 3 
Corks, 193 
Corned Beef, 37 
Cornellle, 108 
Cornez le diner ^ 37 
Cosmopolitan dining in London, 

113, 117 
Cotelettes de Mouton h la Mainte- 

non, 221 
Coventry, Lady, 104 
" Coy Cook Maid, The," 55 
Crabbe, 42 
" Ctanford," 28 
Crites de Coq, 102 
Criterion Restaurant, 34 
Croustades a la Coquelin, 227 
Cruzada, 246 
Cuisiniire Poe'tique, la, 42 
'' Culina Famulatriji Medicinae," 

88 
Culpepper, 258 



" Cupboard Papers," 
Curry, 123 



16 



D'Albignac, 71 

Dallas, £. S., 11, 14 

Dampfnudeltt, 115 

Dartmoor mutton, 204 

D'Aubigne, 71 

Decoration of dinner-table, 159, 

161 
Defoe, Daniel, 212 
" Deipnosophists, The," 45 
Delaney, Mrs., 206 
"Delices de la Campagne," 178 
Demi-deuil, 23 
"De Opsoniis," 224 
Derby-day dinner, 134 
„ menu, 134 

Desvergers, 75 
** Deutsche Medizinische Woch- 

enschrift," 201 
Dickens, Charles, 179, 180 
Didius Julianus, 224 
Didsbury, P. Z., 190 
Dieting, 157 

Dieudonne's Restaurant, 114 
Digestion, 92 

Dilly, Edward and Charles, 82 
Diner, Le, 43 
Dining fads, 157 
Dining in the open air, 95 
Dinner, American, 117 

„ Christmas, 128 

„ Derby-day, 134 

„ French, 1 14 

„ German, 115 

„ Indian, 124 

„ Italian, 114, IZ3 

„ Japanese, 141 

„ King Edward's, 1 34 

„ Parisian, 132 

„ Queen's Guard, 130 

„ Royal Wedding, 136 
Dionysius, 39 
Dipsychus, 43 
"Dr. Salmon's Cookery," 84 



268 



INDEX 



Dodsley on butter, 43 
Doran, Dr., 71 
DoulUet, Le Pire, 224 
Dresden, Battle of, 90 
Driver's oyster house, 171 
Dryden, 42 
Dumas, Alex., fils, 74 

» !. P^re, 4, 42, 228 



Earl's Court Exhibition, 95 

Eating songs, 41 

Echo Pits, Guildford, 209 

Edgeworth, Miss, 258 

Edinburgh Oyster Feast, 181 

Einhorn, Dr. Max, 90 

Elephants' feet, 233 

Elliott, Thos., of Tuzzliehope, 

lOS 
Elsey, F. H., 208, 209 
Emigri salad maker, 71 
"English Art of Cookery," 126 
English Menu, 139 
" English Physician Enlarged," 

258 
"Englishman, An, in Paris," 

228 
" Eothen," 245 
*' Epicure's Almanack," 31 
" Epicure's Year Book," 16 
Epicureanism, 4^ 
Epitaph on Colchester man, 166 
Erasmus, 24; 
Escoffier, 138 
Escudella, 115 
Estofado, 115 

Etude sur la Moutarde, 234 
Euphagia, 90, 91 
Euthymus, 112 
Evans's, Covent Garden, 34 
Evelyn, John, 64, 209, 257 



Faddism, 156 

"Family Cook," 84 

Fasts : different kinds, 247 



Feast of Shells, Edinburgh, 181 

„ Oysters, Colchester, 180 
Fernie, Dr. W. T., 207 
Filets de Lapereau a la Bern, 222 
Filets de Sole i la Belle Otero, 227 
Filets de Sole en Goujon,!^^ 
Filets de Volaille h la ^ellevue, 

222 
Fillets of kangaroo, 233 
Fin Bee, 16 
First oyster, 168, 169 
Fleisch'BrUhe, 115 
Fletcher, Horace, 156 
Flowers, Japanese grammar of, 

160 
Food and Cookery Association, 

241 
"Fopl's Year, A," 338 
Fortnum and Mason, 153 
Fourcroy, 70 
Francatelli, 212 
" Francillon," 74 
Francis of Assisi, St., 243 
"Frazer's Magazine," 253 
French dinner, 114 
Fronto, Julius, 224 
Fulvius Hirpinus, 177 



Galen, 65 

Galeazzo's Lent, 261 

Galitzine, Prince Leon, 143 

Gallienne, R. de, 41 

Gambrinus Restaurant, 115 

Gardeton, Cesar, 173 

Garum, 40 

Gascoign Powder, 78 

Gaskell, Mrs., 28 

Gaspacho, 11; 

" Gastronome, La," 48 

Gastronomes, Reunion des, 17 

** Gastronomic pour rire," 173 

Gaudet, 71 

Gautier, Th., 42 

Gay, 42, 184 

Ged, Wm., 255, 256 



INDEX 



269 



" Genie, Le, du Christianisme,'' 

133 

Graham, Cunninghame, 29 

Grammar of flowers, Japanese, 
160 

Grand International Hotel, Chi- 
cago, 53 

" Grand Dictionnaire de la Cui- 
sine," 232 

Gravelot, 4.9 

Green peas from Algiers, 101 

Greville Memoirs, 38 

Grignon, 234 

Gubbins, Mr., rji 

Guildford, 209 

Gunter*s, 31 

" Gentlewoman's Delight," 67 

George III, 10 

" IV, 57, 135 

Gerard's Herbal, 257 
German dinner, 115 
„ snails, 214 
Gigot h la Mailly, 223 
Gigot a la Richelieu^ 225 
Gilly-flowers, 66 
Gipsies and snails, 207 
Gladstone, Mr., 89 
Globe Tavern, 126 
Gloucestershire snails, 208 
Godwin-Austen, Lt.-Col., 209 
Goethe, 42, 106 
Golden Cross Hotel, 31 
Gorse, De la, 225 
Gourmands, Almanach des, 44, 

225 
Gourmets, Female, 23 
Goutant, Due de, 225 



H 

Halcyons' nests, 234 
Hall, Herbert Byng, 167 
Hampshire snails, 208 
Hampton's oyster house, 171 
Hardy, Thomas, 170 
Hare, W. R., 174 
Haricots -verts grts, 102 



Harrison, Wm., 108 

Hatchett's Restaurant, 31 

Havana, 141 

" Haven of Health," 67 

Hay ward, Abraham, q.c,, 88 

Hearn, Lafcadio, 57 

Heine, 42 

Helford natives, 166 

Helicin, 207 

Helix caperata, 204 

,, pomatia^ 208 
Heloise and Abelard, 17; 
Henry VIII, 244 
Heraldic fish, 254 
Herbs, 256 
Herb shops, 259 
Hertford, Lord, 104 
Herriclt, Robert, 213 
Hetzel, P. J., 80 
Hieronymus, Saint, 63 
Hill, Dr. John, 82 

„ Miss, 9 
Hirst, Francis W., 217 
Hocco, 234 
Hoffmann, 90 
Holborn Restaurant, 34 
Holbrook, Mr., 28 
Holmes, Oliver Wendell, 183 
Homard a V Americaine^ 5 3 
Honours, Musical, 36 
Hood, Tom, 182 
Horace, 176 
Horsley, Canon, 209 
Hotel Chapeau Rouge, Dunkirk, 

248 
Hotel de la Cloche et de la 

Bouteille, 233 
Hotels, British, 98 
Hot-weather dining, 77, 163, 

164 
Hot- weather menus, 163, 164 
" Household of Sir Thomas 

More," 93 
" Housekeeper's Oracle,'* 6 
Huitres de Marennes^ 171 

„ d'Ostende, 171 
Hunter, Dr., 88 



27Q 



INDEX 



Hutton, Professor, 217 
Huxley, Professor, 168 



"Illustrated Index of British 

Shells," 208 
".Impressions de Voyage,*' 228 
Indian dinner, 124 

„ restaurant, 123 
Isouard, Nicole, 186 
Italian dinner, 114 

„ menu, 123 

„ snails, 209 
"Italie et la France," 138 



Jackanapes-on-horseback, 258 
Japanese dinner, 141 

„ grammar of flowers, 1 60 

„ menu, 120, 141 

„ salad, 74 
Jaucourt, M. de, 9 
Jenner, Dr., 52 
Jerome K. Jerome, 200 
Jerrold, Blanchard, 16 
Jersey oysters, 166 
John XXJI, Pope, 244 
Johnson, Dr., 82, 162 
Jongmanns, Herr, 34 
Joseph, 18, 38 
"Jubber'8,"Bond Street, 31 
June, Sonnet to, 60 
Juniper Hall, 9 
Juvenal, 176 

K 
Kabobs, 115 
Kalisiotlette, 115 
Kangaroo fillets, 233 
Karpfe in ^ier, 115 
Keech, G., 51 
Kenealy, Dr., 45 
Kenelm, Sir Digby, 206 
Kentish snails, 208 
" Kettner's Book of the Table,"' 
14 



Kettner's Restaurant, 114 

" Kidder's Receipts," 84 

" Killmansegg, Miss, and Her 

Golden Leg," 182 
King, Dr. Wm., 43, 68 
King Edward's dinner, 134 
Kinglake, 245 
King of snails, 217 
Kitchen, Language of, 14 
Kitchiner, Dr., 6, 81, 167 
Kokoro, 57 
Koulhiac, 115 
Kron, Professor, 201 



Lacroix, 231 

Lactkinia, 247 

Lady Honeywood's snail water, 

212 
" Lady's Companion," 78 
Lampriadas, 112 
" Lancet, The," 210 
Landor, W. S., 42 
Laperte, M., 175 
Laroche, 74 
Latin de Cuisine^ 150 
Latin menu, 150 
Laughing at dinner, 92, 93 
Laurens, 10 
Lauris asparagus, loi 
" Lawyer's Fortune, The," 68 
Leczinska, Marian, 222 
Leczinski, King Stanislas, 225 
Leighton, Lord, 168 
Leipzig, Battle of, 90 
"Lemery on Food," 84 
Lent menus, 249, 250 

„ Galeazzo's, 261 

„ murders, 245 
Lentillus, 112 
Lettuce, 65 
"Life is but a Melancholy 

Flower,*' 50 
Ligne, Prince de, 7 
Lister, Dr., 44 
Littre, 70 
"Londoner's Logbook," 164 



INDEX 



271 



"London Gazette," 212 
London Tavern, 31 
Long's Hotel, Bond Street, 31 
Louis XIV, 220 

„ XV, 220 

„ XVIII, 223 
" Love's Pilgrimage," 87 
Luce, 254 

Luncheon baskets, 99 
Lytton, Bulwer, 108 

M 
Macaroncello, 228 
Macarius, Saint, 242 
M&chc, 103 

" Magistrate, The,'' 192 
Magny, 234 

Maigre menus, 249, 250 
Maintenon, Madame de, 221 
Mammon, Sir Epicure, 39 
"Man and Superman," 237 
"Mappemonde Papistique," 261 
Marechal Saxe, 148 
Marie, 3 

Markham, Gervase, 66 
Marr, M. de la, 207 
Martial, 176 
Massonio, Salvatore, 70 
Mathieu, 148 
Matius, Julius, 224 
Maupassant, Guy de, 237 
Mayo, 82 
Mayonnaise, 55 
" Meals Medicinal," 207 
Melford, Miss Lydia, 40 
Menager, M., 5 
Menon, 97, 224 
Menu, "Academy," 139 

„ Acrostic, 138 

„ "Alice in Wonderland," 
142 

„ Ball-supper, 147 

„ Banana, 142 

„ Bavarian, i ^o 

„ Carlton Hotel, 149 

„ Chinese, 119 



Menu, Christmas, 127, 128 
„ Derby-day, 134 
„ English, 139, 140 
„ Galitzine, Prince, 144 
„ Hot-weather, 163, 164 
„ Indian, 124 
„ Italian, 123 
„ Japanese, 120, 141 
„ Latin, 150 
„ literal translation, 139 
„ Parisian, 132 
,, Picnic, 153 
„ Prince's Restaurant, 154 
„ Queen's Guard, 130 
„ Royal Society of St. 

George, 140 
„ Savoy Hotel, 145, 155 
„ Spanish, 122 
„ Swedish, 121 
„ Windsor Castle, 136 

Menus, 16, 17, 24 

"Menus, Book of," 16 

" Menus for Lent," 249, 250 
„ maigres, 249, 250 

Mery, 42 

Meyerbeer^ (Eufs h la, 37 

Millais, Sir J. E., 168 

Minestrone, 114 

" Minora Carmina," 60 

Mirabolant, 23 

" Miscellanies : a Variety," i 

" Modern Cook," V. la Chapelle, 
84, 212 

Moliire, 58, 91, 234 

Monselet, Charles, 42 

Monsiau, 49 

Montaigne, 67 

"Monte Cristo,"233 

Moore, Thomas, 42 

Morgan, Lady, 3 

Morris, Captain Charles, 57 

Motor luncheons, 99 

Mouret, Pierre, 136 

Moustier, 225 

Murders in Lent, 245 

Murphy, Serjeant, 253 

Murray, Grenville, 71 



272 



INDEX 



Music at restaurants, 31 . 

Mutton, Boiled, 27 
„ Dartmoor, 204 
„ South Down, 204 

"My Cookery Books," 89 

N 
Napoleon, 89, 135, 226 
" Nearly Seven," 75 
Nereus of Corinth, 112 
Nesle, Marquis de, 223 
Newcastle Snail Feast, 208 
New England Indian pudding, 

118 
Nicolo, Isouard, 186 
*' Noctes Ambroslanae,*' 167 
Norfolk, Duke of, 254 
" North British Review," 168 
North, Christopher, 167 
"Nunc est Ccenandum," 61 

O 

Oddenino, 115 

Okra, 117 

*'0n the Search for a Dinner," 

174 . _ 

Open-air dining, 95 

Oribasius, 176 

Onions, 112 

Ow, Baron von, 1 50 

Owenson, Sidney, 3 

Oysters, American, 183 

„ appropriate drinks, 172 

„ Boiled, 174 

„ Feast, Colchester, 180 

„ ,, Edinburgh, 18 x 

„ Poor man's, 209 

„ whistling, 181 



Pagani's Restaurant, 114 
Tain a la d^Orleans, 222 
Palais Royal, 75 
Parkinson, John, 257 
Parisian menu, 132 



Phti de Foie Gras, 148 

Pauillac lamb, loi 

Pearls, 185 

Peche Meiia, 227 

« Pelham," 108 

Pennell, Mrs. Joseph, 89 

Ferche h Id Gaubert^ 227 

Pfere-la-Chaise, 175 

Petites Bouchees a la Reitie, 222 

Petrarch, 261 

Philip, John, 179 

'* Pickwick Papers," 179, 180 

Picnic menu, 153 

Picnics, 151 

Pike, 254 

Pinero, A. W., 192 

Tinna marina, 185 

" Plebeian Polished, The," 6 

Pliny, 176, 205 

Plum pudding, 126 

" Poems of Good Cheer," 48 

"Poetical Cook Book," 43 

Polignac, Marquis de, 225 

Pollio alia Contrabandista, 114 

Pompadour, 222 

Poor man's oyster, 209 

Potage h la Camerani, 225 

„ „ Dumesnilj 227 
pQularde h la Georges Sand, 227 
„ „ '\Basilic, 225 
„ de ''Bresse, 102 
Poularde a la Montmorency^ 222 
Poule-au-pot Henri IV ^ 145 
Poulet du Mam, 102 

„ a la Marengo^ 226 

„ „ VilUroy, 222 
Powldoodies, 166 
Pre Saliy loi 
Primeurs, loi, 103 
Prince's Restaurant, 24, 1 54, 227 
Prin% Pitchier, 124 
" Propos d'Art et de Cuisine," 

228 
Prunier's Restaurant, 211 
Pryor, 42 
Purie Buffon, 227 
" Putting the change to bed," i g i 



INDEX 



273 



Q 

"Quadragesimal Spirituel, Le," 

63 
" Quarterly Review,'' 88 
Queen's Guard dinner, 130 
Queen Victoria, 136 
Quixote, Don, 29 

R 

Rabelais, 70 

Rabislia, Will, 178 

Radunski, 197 

Reade, Charles, 245 

" Redgauntlet," 256 

Reform Club, 49 

Reichemberg, 74 

" Religio Medici," 62 

Restaurant, Cliinese, n8 
„ Indian, 123 

„ manners, 29 

„ music, 31 

„ Origin of, 236 

" Return of the Native," 170 

Reunion des Gastronomes^ 1 7 

Reyniire, Grimod de la, 11, 44, 
129, 225, 234 

Rhys, C. C, 61 

Richard II, 66 

Richelieu, Cardinal, 225 

%is d'Agneau h V Amiral, 152 

Roche, M., 102 

Rocher du Cancale, 174 

Rogers, S., 42 

Rohan, Cardinal, 148 

Romainej 103 

Roman cookery, 40 

Roqueplan, Nestor, 20 

Rossini, 37 

Rousseau, 70 

Roxburghe Ballads, 54, 84, 257 

Royal Society of St. George, 140 
,, Wedding dinner, 136 

"Rudder Grange," 112 

" Rules and Orders for Govern- 
ment," 239 . 

Rule's oyster house, 171 

Russell, G. W. E., 164 



Saint Anthony, 63 

,, Athanasius, 63 

„ Cedd, 243 

,, Francis of Assisi, 243 

,, Hieronymus, 63 

,, Macarius, 242 
Sala, G. A., 11, 33, 86, 87, 177 
" Salade d'Oranges," 75 
Salade Rachel^ 227 
Salad, 153 

„ Laureateship, 72 

„ to keep fresh, 100 

„ de la Grande Jeanne^ 79 

„ Jajjonaise, 74 

„ Thompson, Sir Henry, 79 

„ " Vanity Fair," 77 
Sailets, 64, 67, 258 
Sauce mayonnaise, 55 

„ i la Souhise, 223 
Savoy Hotel, 18, 145, 155 
Saxe, Marechal, 148 
SchoU, Aurelien, 42 
" Schoole of Vertue," no 
Schools for waiters, 197 
Schiitze, Dr. J. F., 69 
Scott, Sir Walter, 10;, 256 
Scott's oyster house, 171 
Seager, no 
Selden, John, 260 
*' Select Conversations with an 

Uncle," 10 
Seneca, 176 

Seven Sages of the Kitchen, 112 
Seward, Miss, 82 
Shakespeare, 42, 63, 86 
Shaw, G. Bernard, 237 
Ship Tavern, Charing Cross, 31 
Shortreed, Mr., 105 
Sidon, King of, 15 
Simeon Stylites, 242 
"Simple Susan," 258 
Sims, Geo. R., 53 
Sixtus the Fifth, Pope, 69 
Sjalouschine, 187 
Skelton, 248 
Smallage, 258 



274 



INDEX 



Smith, Adam, 217 

Smith, Sydney, 43, 45 

" Smith's Cookery," 84 

Smorgasbord, 115 

Snail Feast at Newcastle, 208 

„ spirals, 217 
Snails, 203 

„ Artificial, 213 

„ for America, 207 

„ in Austria, 215 

„ Close time for, 204 

„ Cooking of, 211 

„ first brought to England, 

206 
„ French, 203 
„ in Germany, 214 
„ in Gloucestershire, 208 
„ from Italy, 209 
„ in Hampshire, 208 
„ in Kent, 208 
„ King of, 217 
„ Paris consumption, 203 
„ h la Pro'vengale, 233 
„ in Surrey, 206 
„ in Sussex, 206 
„ as window-cleaners, 218 
Sociiti des Amis des Livres, 127 
Socihi Scientifique d'Hygiene, La, 

146 
Society of Beef Steaks, 57 
Society of St. George, 140 
Sole it la Pagani, 114 
Sonnet sequence, 60 
"Sophie," 4, 229 
Sot {Le) Vy laisse, 129 
Soubise, Prince de, 223 
Soupeh la Cotide, 223 
„ „ Lamartine, 227 
„ „ Victor Hugo, 227 
"Soupers de la Cour, Les," 96, 

224 
South Down mutton, 204 
Sower by, 208 
Soyer, Alexis, 40, 49 
Spanish menu, 122 
Spenser, Edmund, 209 
Spirals on snails, 217 



"Splendid Shilling, The," 179 

Stahl, P. J., 80 

Stella, 173 

Stephens, Mrs. Joanna, 212 

Stockton, Franl^ 112 

Strasburg, 148 

Stschi, 115, 149 

Stylites, Simeon, 242 

Sublime Society of Beef Steaks,57 

"Sufferings of the Clergy," no 

Suckling, Sir John, 46, 213 

Sulliijan, (Eufs h la, 38 

Surrey Archaeological Museum, 

209 
Surrey Archaeological Society, 

208 
Surrey snails, 206 
Sussex snails, 206 
Swan, to roast, 51 
Swan Hotel, Weymouth, 51 
Swedish menu, 121 
Sweeting's oyster house, 171 

„ Rents, 31 
Swift, Dean, 173 
Sybarites, no 



"Tabella Cibaria," 177 

Table decoration, 159 

" Table Talk," 260 

" Table Traits," 71 

Tachyphagia, 90 

Talleyrand, 134 

"Tatler, The," 106, 179 

Temple Coffee House, 126 

Terrapin, 117 

Thackeray, W. M., 23, 42, 46, 

184 
Thidtre Fratifais, 74 
Thompson, Sir Henry, 2, 38, 

79. 1^8 
Thudichum, Dr., 88 
Toledo Council, 246 
" Transmigritfion," 88 
" Triall of Feasting," 93 
" Trouble in the Balkans," 202 



INDEX 



275 



Tschi, 14.9 
Tsiganes, 35 
"Turner's Herbal," 257 
Turkey, Cookery of, 45 

U 

" Use and Abuse of Salads," 69 
Uzanne, Adiille, 47 



Vacchi, Allessandro, 5 
Vaerst, Baron von, 63 
Valliire, Due de la, 225 
" Vanity Fair " salad, 77 
Varin, 75 
Varro, 224 
Vathek, 252 
Vefour, 234 
Vegetarians, 158 
Veron, Dr!, 4, 229 
Villeroy, Duchesse de, 222 
Villon, 42 

Visconti, Galeazzo, 261 
Vitellius, 224 
Vol-au-vent h la Nede, 223 
Voltaire, 244 
Vuillemot, D. J., 232 

W 
Wadsworth, J. H, 46 
Wagner, CEufs h la, 37 
Waiters, Athenian, 201 

„ British Association of. 



Waiters' Schools, 197 
Walker, Thomas, 1 1 

„ Dr., 110 
Waller, W. F., 82, 86 
Walpole, Horace, 104 
"Walrus and the Carpenter," 

170 
Waring, Henry, i 
Washington, George, 183 
Watts, G. F. (R.A.), 168 
Weever, 255 
Weller, Sara, 180 

„ Mr., senior, i8o 
Wellington, Duke of, 162 
Wells, H. G., 10 
Westminster Chapter House,255 
Whipping a pig to death, 106 
Whispered Pandores, 166 
Whistling oyster, 181 
White Hart Tavern, 126 
Windsor- Castle, 136 
Window-cleaning snails, 218 
Women at dinner, 20 
Woodhouse, Emma, 28 
Wordsworth, 32 
Workmen's Compensation Act, 

213 



Yates, Edmund, 17 
Yeo, Dr., 209 



Zacharias, Pope, 244 
Zakouika, 115 



PLYMOUTH : W, BRSNDON AND SON, LTD., PRINTERS 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



Crown %vo. Price y. 6d. net. 



THE CULT OF THE 
CHAFING DISH 



CONTENTS. 



I. THE CHAFING DISH. 

II. PRELIMINARIES. 

III. SOUPS. 

IV. FISH. 
V. FLESH AND FOWL. 

VI. VEGETABLES AND 
SALADS. 



VII. EGGS AND 

SAVOURIES. 
VIII. SAUCES. 
IX. SWEETS AND 

ODDMENTS. 
X. AMENITIES OF THE 
TABLE. 
INDEX. 



LONDON: GAY & BIRD, 

2 2 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND. 



GAY & BIRD'S 



ANNOUNCEMENTS 



Autumn 1906. 




London : 
GAY & BIRD. 12 & 13 Henrietta St., Strand, W.C. 



The Sorrows of Michael 

By MULVY OUSELEY. 

Author of "Kitty and the Viscount." 



The great success of Mr. Ouseley's " Kitty and the Viscount," 
published last autumn, was a decided order for more, and " The 
Sorrows of Michael " will more than satisfy tiis readers. 

Briefly the plot is this :■ — Hubert Clavering, a millionaire 
dwarf, having lost his wife and son through the exigencies of a 
past love affair, wanders round the world in search of them. He 
follows Oliver Real, the hero of the story, a clerk in the Foreign 
Office. Oliver is in love with Miss Mansfield, whose step-father. 
Sir Brutus Knapp, is a pompous London newspaper owner. 
Oliver is rejected by Sir Brutus, and in a fit of despair marries 
one, Lettie Denham, who, after her marriage, on the very day of 
Oliver's reconciliation to Miss Mansfield, is found murdered. 

Michael Markham and Lady Wilden, both well-known 
figures in London Society, are jointly running a scheme for the 
establishment of a Universal Peace Council among the nations. 
Lady Wilden, who lives by what she can get for introducing the 
new rich into social smart sets, encourages Markham as a possible 
husband for Miss Mansfield. The Peace Scheme affords a fine 
opportunity for the weaving of the threads of a stirring story 
around it. The Hunchback slowly but surely discovers the 
machinations of Lady Wilden and Michael Markham, both of 
whom suggest throughout the story that Lettie Denham's mur- 
derer is Oliver Real. Ex-Colonel Holcha, a spy in the pay of a 
Foreign Power, succeeds in carrying off Miss Mansfield to Hol- 
land, where she goes through a form of marriage with Markham, 
but it is a marriage in name only. A striking denouement is 
effected at Constantinople, where Ephraim Tuck, the eminent 
idetective, discovers a sensational conspiracy in which Markham, 
Holcha, and others are involved. The murderer of Lettie 
Denham is identified, and the Hunchback is iiigeniously 
brought face to face with his own son. All- ends happily after a 
series of sensational incidents and adventures which hold the 
reader from the first page to the last. 



Twin Souls 

By the Author of "Fallen Angels," 

Illustrated by NE WTON BRAB Y. 

An exceptionally interesting psychological story, that at 
once grips the attention of the reader, whether man or woman, and 
holds it to the end. The central character — Virgil Unite — 
marries, on her death-bed, a girl whom he loves intensely and 
regards as his " Alter ego." 

After her death, he devotes himself to the uplifting of fallen 
humanity, strong in the belief that the affinity he conceives to 
exist between the soul of his dead wife and his own, is the 
source of his inspirations. His Galahadism, or his knight errantry, 
induces striking incidents that sparkle in almost every chapter. 

He is ably seconded in his philanthropic efforts by a great 
friend of his, Dr. Chulcott, and wins the undying gratitude 
of a young fellow named Batson, whom he rescues from the 
clutches of Nicholas Grasprew, a usurious money-lender. 

He is equally successful in bringing to naught the machina- 
tions of Grasprew where a Sir Arthur Fay and his two daughters 
are concerned, the money-lender's object being marriage with 
the elder of the girls. 

Grasprew's ultimate fate is a fltting end to an unregenerate 
life, and Virgil's continued well doing an exemplification of the 
truth of the old adage : " Magna est Veritas, et prsevalebit." 
Untrammelled by earthly love, upborne and powerfully in 
fiuenced by the expectation of his soul's eventual fusion with 
that of his dead Dorothy, he pursues "the even tenor of his 
way," ever teaching the lesson that "on stepping-stones of 
our dead selves we rise to higher things." 

Mr. Pratt 

By J. CROSBY LINCOLN. 

Two well-to-do Americans decide on living the simple lije 
for a few months of the summer — a little love affair having gone 
wrong. They rent a small uninhabited island with a dilapidated 
house, and with Mr, Pratt, an old seaman, whom they press 
into their service, they have a very adventurous time of it. 
From first page till last the reader will be kept laughing. 

We feel confident we are introducing to the reading public 
an American Mr. Jacobs. 

5 



The Shadow of Christine 

By EVELYN C, H. VIVIAN. 

A cleverly written story of love and adventure, which grips 
the reader's interest from start to finish. 

How the hero accidentally found wealth, and, through no 
fault of his own, incurred " The Shadow of Christine," is told 
without a dull page. 

Altogether, a book that, once taken up, will not be put 
down unfinished. 



The Witchery of the 5erpent 

By JAMES BARR. 

Author of "Laughing Through a Wilderness. " 



Narrates the adventures of an ambitious young Scotch 
journalist, and, incidentally, of several other people, including 
the editor of the paper upon which the hero was at one time 
employed. 

The way their several love affairs are mixed up with the 
discovery of a Sea-Serpent, is related in a manner as ingenious as 
it is interesting. 



The Social Secretary 

5/- By DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS. 

Illustrated by CLARENCE E. UNDER WOOD. 
6 



HUMOUR. 

5eeing France with Uncle 
John 

5/- By ANNE WARNER. 

Nutnerous illustrations by M. W. PRESTON. 

A humorous sketch of an American girl's holiday with an 
uncle with many troubles and peculiar whims . 

Fortunately for Yvonne, they meet many other tourists, with 
some of whom they become friendly. The daily adventures 
are most laughable, and the manner in which they are told 
reminds one of " Three Men in a Boat." 

The volume in profusely illustrated from drawings taken on 
the spot. 



Susan Clegg and Her 
Neighbour's Affairs 

3/6 By ANNE WARNER. 

Illustrated. 

Susan Clegg is an old spinster who has never been outside 
her little native village, she is the local reporter of news, and her 
manner of retailing it to her visitors is very amusing. She will 
be welcomed by all who enjoyed "Timothy's Quest" and "Mrs. 
Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch." 

7 



The Humour of Bulls and 
Blunders 

5/. By JUDQE BROWN. 

A side-splitting volume. 

Judge Brown has culled a wonderful collection of humorous 
£ulls and Blunders made in the Press, Parliament, Law-Courts, 
Pulpits, Schools, Advertisements, and other sources. 

It is a volume one can dip into with a certainty of curing a 
fit of the blues. 

The Bold Bad Butterfly 

3/6 Written and Illustrated by OLIVER HERFORD. 

Oliver Herford needs no introduction. He is as smart with 
pen as with his brush or pencil. 

The great success of his last volume — " The Rubaiyat of a 
Persian Kitten " — has made him many friends on this side. This 
volume consists of a collection of humorous poems with 
humorous line illustrations on nearly every page. The binding 
design is very attractive. 

A Little Book of Bores 

2/6 Written and Illustrated by OLIVER HERFORD. 

An Alphabet of Comical verse and illustrative of Society 
Bores. 

Artful Antics 

3/6 Written and Illustrated by OLIVER HERFORD. 

Cheaper Edition. 

This is a volume of comic anecdotes of Animals with very 
clever drawings on every page. 

8 



Foolish Etiquette 

3/6 By O. B. HAYVE. 

With quaint illustrations on every page by 
WALLACE GOLDSMLTH. 

This is a volume quite out of the common. Size 7 J in. by 
4J in. The borders of each page are illustrated. The text and 
the borders are printed in a light purple ink, giving one the 
idea that the work is printed on coloured paper. 

Those who were amused with the " Foolish Dictionary " 
last year will be pleased to possess this companion volumn. 



YOPPY: the Autobiography of 
a Monl<ey 

5/= By MOLLIE LEE CLIFFORD. 

With frontispiece in colour and five page illustrations. 

This is a humorous volume for old and young. 

Everyone is familiar with the organ-grinder's monkey, but 
his Ufe is not so bright as his little red coat. After rough 
experiences he is taken charge of by some kind people, but the 
frolics he gets up to, obliges them to hand him over to others, 
when further adventures take place. 

His autobiography is most entertainingly written and charm- 
ingly illustrated and bound. 



RELIGIOUS. 



Simple Truths 

A Series of Dainty Booklets, 6d. net each, 

1. Selected Poems by ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. 

2. Aphorisms by R. D. STOCKER. 

3. Poems by R. D. STOCKER. 



From Dream to Vision of Life 

4/6 net. By LILIAN WHITINQ. 

Author oi "The World Beautiful," " The Outlook Beautiful," 
"The Life Radiant," "The Spiritual Significance," etc., etc. 



Greater Truths 

3/6 By HORATIO W. DRESSER. 

Author of " Power of Silence," " Perfect Whole," " Voices of Hope," etc. 
Being Vol. VII. of "The World Beautiful Library." 



3/6 



My First Work in 
5hadowland 



Letters from Florence to her Mother. 

A sequel to " One Year in Spirit-Land." 

Florence communicates with her mother regularly and 
informs her of the work in Shadowland. It is a volume which 
will command respect and deep thought from all earnest 
Christians. 



POETRY. 



A 5heaf of Song 

I/- net. By MRS. CALVERT SPENSLEY. 

Author of " With the Tide." 

A small volume of beautiful thoughts prettily expressed. 



The Kingdom of Love 

3/6 net. By ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. 

6/- net. Presentation Edition with portrait. 



This new volume of poems will be welcomed by air 
Mrs. Wilcox's admirers. Many of the pieces have been selected 
by her as suitable for recitation. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



With Walt Whitman 
in Camden. 

33/6 net. By HORACE TRAUBEL. 

With 35 full-page Portraits, Facamilies, including his Will, etc. 
Size, 9 in. by 6 in., cloth gilt, gilt top. 



Besides being Walt Whitman's executor, he was his most 
intimate friend and neighbour. 

This is probably the last and completing volume dealing 
with the life and work of Walt Whitman from official sources. 

It contains letters from Tennyson, Lord Houghton, John 
Addington Symonds, William N. Rossetti, Robert Buchanan, 
John Morley, Ellen Terry, T. W. Rolleston, Roden Noel, 
Edmund Gosse, Edward Carpenter, Edward Dowden, Sydney 
Lanier, Bret Harte, Joaquin Miller, John Hay, Edwin Bootl:^ 
John Burroughs, Wm. Douglas O'Connor, and others.j 

All of the letters and manuscript printed in the diary fall 
naturally into place, having been discussed by Whitman ; and the 
conversations therefore give his estimates and opinions of 
contemporary men and events. The book is not only fascinating 
in its intimacy and its wealth of collateral material, but it will 
prove a revelation to many who have not realized the breadth 
of Whitman's literary acquaintance nor his acutely keen critical 
sense. 



Gems from Boswell 

a/6 net. By PERCY FITZGERALD. 

Being Vol. 23 of "The Bibelots." 



Beethoven 

The man and the artist, as revealed in his own words, Compiled and 
Annotated by Fribdrich Kbrst. Edited and Translated by 

4/6 net. HENRY EDWARD KRBHBILL. 

This volume consists of Beethoven's own words, culled from 
letters, reports of conversations, diaries, and some sources un- 
available prior to the compiler's research, and relating to many of 
the problems which arose during the great composer's life. His 
opinion of men and things, his view of questions which assail 
every thinking man, as well as on those problems belonging 
specifically to his own arts, are classified under appropriate 
chapter headings. 



Mozart 



The man and the artist, as revealed in his own words, Compiled and 
Annotated by Friedrich Kerst. Edited and Translated by 

4/6 net. HENRY EDWARD iCREHBILL. 

The unique personality of Mozart is revealed more effec- 
tively in these selected and classified quotations from his own 
pen than would be possible in the most pains-taking study, by 
another, of the hght-hearted genius. 

His filial devotion, joyous love-making, high spirited protest 
against the degradation of his profession, and profound loyalty 
to the faith in which he was reared, are all set forth with an 
ingeniousness and impetuosity that recreate for us this absolutely 
charming musical conjurer. 

13 



Cozy Corner Library 

A Series for Ladies. 

i. Love Letters of Famous Persons by FREEMAN BUNTINQ. 
2. Power of Qems and Charms by G. H. BRATLEY. 
3/6 net each. 

Each volume in this series will be well edited and produced in elegant form. 
Size 6J in. by S in., printed from a, new, heavy-faced type, with ornamental 

initials, on a good antique paper, tastefully bound in cloth. 
2CX3 numbered copies, on hand-made paper, bound in leather, 6/- net. 



The Way of an Indian 

S/- By FREDERIC REMINGTON 

Author of "Men with the Bark on," "Crooked Trails," etc 

Size 8f by 5f in, with frontispiece in colour and sixteen illustrations 
by the Author, attractive cover. 

One of the cleverest things Mr. Remington has ever done. 
A study of a genuine Indian brave, not the Indian of melodrama 
or rough and ready novels, but the Red Man as he really was. 



The Ruined Abbeys of 
Great Britain 

By RALPH ADAMS CRAM, F.A.LA., F.R.Q.S. 
to/6 net. Author of " Church Building," etc. 

Size 8i by 5| ins., pp. 330, with 67 half-tone plates from photographs, 
cloth gilt, gilt top. 

A popularly written work which will be welcomed by all 
interested in Church History. 

14 



The Greedy Book 

A Gastronomical Anthology. 

5/- net. By FRANK SCHLOESSER 

Author of "The Cult of the Chafing Dish." 

Illustrated. 

» 

A volume which will appeal to all those who love good 
dining and good literature. Mr. Frank Schloesser's " Cult of the 
Chafing Dish," went into the second edition within a month of 
publication and received much literary appreciation in the 
columns of quite serious reviews. Mr. Schloesser's new book 
deals largely with the literary aspect of the dinner table. 



Gay & Bird's Popular 
Hand = books 



i/= paper. 


Size 6 by 4J ins. 


1/6 cloth. 




DREAM BOOK ... 


... By Madame Xanto. 


FORTUNE TELLING 


... By Madame Xanto. 


PROVERBS 


... By John H. Bechtel. 


CONUNDRUMS ... 


... By Dean Rivers. 


MAGIC 


... By Ellis Stanyon. 


EPITAPHS 


... By Frederic W. Unger. 



Conversations of Ben Jonson 
with William Drummond 

Edited, with Introduction and Notes, 
2/-Cnet. by PHILIP SIDNEY, 

I 



CHEAPER EDITIONS. 



MISREPRESENTATIVE MEN. By Harry Graham 
(Col. D. Streamer). With 7 humorous illustrations by F. Stroth- 
MAN. Uniform with 3/6 edition; 1/6 net. 



JAPANESE QIRLS & WOMEN. By Alice M. Bacon. 
The best work ever written on this subject. The author has acted as 
tutor at the leading ladies' college in Tokio for many years, thus 
coming in contact with all the best families. 3/6. 



THE HISTORY OF BRITISH POETRY. From the 

Earliest Times to the beginning of the Twentieth Century. By 
F. St. John Corbett, M.A. Size gj by 9 in., pp. 640, cloth gilt. 
(Originally pubhshed at 15/- net). 7/6 net. 



THE ANCIENT MARINER. By T. S. Coleridge. With 
6 Photogravures and other Illustrations by Herbert Colk. 
Hand-made Paper Edition (only a few copies left) published at 
10/6 net. 5/= net. 



THE BODY BEAUTIFUL. By Nannetje M. Pratt. 
With many page plates, attractive cloth cover. The best book 
on Physical Exercise and Dieting, with many recipes tor the 
complexion. 3/6 net. 



THE GROWTH OF RELIGIOUS IDEALS. By H. G. 

Rosed ALE, D. D. Foolscap 8vo., cloth. 1/6 net. 



WHO'S WHO^ AT THE ZOO. Written and Illustrated by 
L. Beatrice Thompson. Third Edition. With 20 half-tone 
plates and 109 drawingsin text. Size 8^ by 6 in., cloth. 2/6, net. 
16 



