Digitized by the Internet Arcinive 

in 2007 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.arcliive.org/details/bettermentindiviOOGOokricli 



BETTERMENT 



BETTERMENT 

INDIVIDUAL, SOCIAL, AND 
INDUSTRIAL 

OR 

HIGHEST EFFICIENCY THROUGH THE GOLDEN RULES 

OF RIGHT NUTRITION '; WELFARE WORK ; 

AND THE HIGHER INDUSTRIAL 

DEVELOPMENTS 

BY 

E. WAKE COOK 




UNIVER^ 

OF 

NEW YORK 

FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 

Publishers 



HP^Sf 



Copyright, 1906 
By Frederick A. Stokes Company 

This Edition published in October, 1906 






THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

The object of this work is to give in 
convenient form the latest discoveries which 
promote individual, industrial, and collective 
efficiency. The chapters on health and training 
all tend to the " Simple Life,'' and recall suf- 
fering humanity to the care of the best physi- 
cian in the world — Nature. The simple rules 
given should, if followed, be worth a consider- 
able increase of income to rich and poor alike. 
They will bring new joy to life, a lessening 
of its cost, immunity from disease, and a 
great increase in mental and physical energy. 
Should disease, through previous ignorance or 
faulty practice, get its doctor-baffling grip on 
a person, the " Heroic Cure " or the " Nature 
Cure " offers the cheapest and most effectual 
remedy yet discovered. It not only costs 
nothing, but, on the principle that money saved 
is money gained, it puts money into the pocket 
constantly, and the means and the physician 
are always at hand. 

In treating of industrial matters I give as 
far as possible the views not of armchair 
theorists, but of practical men, — the great 
organisers who have come to grips with 



15*!41^^ 



vi PREFACE 

realities. Among the higher industrial devel- 
opments the '' Suggestion System '' seems to 
me a priceless discovery, and its general adop- 
tion cannot be too strenuously urged. 

The latest developments of what is called 
" Welfare Work " are so impressive that they 
turn the dismal pessimist into a cheery opti- 
mist. To think of the old factories, smoke- 
begrimed in a v^ilderness of rubbish heaps; 
and then to see the model factories that are 
rising everywhere, crystal palaces set in flowery 
pleasances, transforming their surroundings 
and radiating perfection, we feel that what 
were formerly Utopian dreams are now being 
realised. (Another encouraging development is 
the fact that what was formerly high philan- 
thropic work is now found to pay and is good 
business. Hence its general adoption is only 
a question of tim^ 

The success of such institutions as the 
National Civic Federation, with its headquar- 
ters in New York, is most inspiring. They 
aim at bringing Labour and Capital together 
for developing the interests they have in com- 
mon, and enabling them to look at the great 
problems from each other's standpoint. This 
widening of the outlook is the half-way house 
towards reconciHation. 



PREFACE vii 

The practical efforts that are being made 
to bring the interests of Capital and Labour 
into line are also most encouraging. All these 
movements are so complex and far-reaching 
that by the time we have studied them ex- 
haustively new developments have occurred, 
and our information is a *' back number." To 
grasp them all in full detail is impossible, and 
to go too deeply into one or two is to exag- 
gerate their importance and to throw them 
out of relation with other equally important 
movements. So my aim has been to give a 
general outline of the most hopeful means yet 
discovered for promoting individual and col- 
lective betterment, with sufficient detail to 
interest the general reader and to enable him 
to put them into practice. 

I am under a heavy debt of obligation to all 
those who have aided me with valuable infor- 
mation. With Mr. Fletcher's invaluable work 
I am in closest touch. It came to me at the 
psychological moment when I was in despair, 
believing that my working days were ended, 
and it gave me a new lease of life, as it has 
done to many others in like condition. The 
rapid spread of the knowledge of his discov- 
eries, with the scientific endorsement they are 
receiving, is one of the greatest regenerating 



viii PREFACE 

forces of the time; and to him and his able 
co-worker, Dr. Van Someren, I tender my 
grateful thanks. 

To Mr. A. A. Thomas, the able and cour- 
teous legal adviser and secretary of the Com- 
pany that has built up the ** Model Factory of 
the Gem City " (Dayton, Ohio), I am indebted 
for masses of matter bearing on the Company's 
own work and that of other firms in bettering 
the conditions of labour. He also directed me 
to other sources of information; stated the 
larger problems that are engaging the best 
minds in the industrial world; gave me many 
of the most statesman-like views that have 
been expressed about them, and his own mature 
thoughts on these burning questions. These 
have aided me greatly to obtain the inside 
view. Those who have to handle affairs prac- 
tically see them very differently from the out- 
side philosopher. 

To Miss Gertrude Beeks, the able secretary 
of the Welfare Department of the National 
Civic Federation, New York, I am much 
indebted for valuable up-to-date information 
readily and courteously given. To many man- 
agers, heads of departments, and secretaries of 
industrial organisations in England, America, 
and on the Continent I offer my thanks for 



PREFACE ix 

valuable information bountifully given with 
unfailing courtesy. 

To students of sociology, economics, and 
industrial questions I would specially commend 
the Solvay Institute at Brussels. It is splen- 
didly organised on a most comprehensive plan. 
There are laboratories for all branches of 
science bearing on these subjects. All forms 
of information are systematically collected and 
tabulated ; and there is a splendid library con- 
taining all the latest works in every language 
on these questions, arranged to perfection. 
Everything that forethought and a true knowl- 
edge of writers and their ways can suggest is 
done for their comfort. The whole is under 
the directorship of M. Waxweiler, a man of 
high distinction. This fine institution is a 
living monument to the still, happily, living 
M. Ernest Solvay, whose own writings are 
full of deep thought and valuable suggestions, 
some of which will be found in the following 
pages. My great regret is that I have not 
been able, owing to lack of space, to make 
fuller use of them and of the great masses of 
information placed at my service by so many 
helpful hands. 



CONTENTS 

PART I 

Chapter Page 
I. Industrial-Statecraft — Harmonising 
THE Interests of Capital and La- 
bour I 

II. Efficiency 8 

III. Training — Capacity Culture ... 28 

IV. Health — Wealth 39 

V. The Golden Rules of Right Nutrition 50 

VI. The Question of Quantity : the Mini- 
mum THE Optimum 68 

VII. The Heroic Cure 104 

VIII. Rational Exercise 125 

PART II 

IX. The Higher Industrial Developments 142 

X. Moralising Business Methods . . . 155 

XL A Model Factory 164 

XII. Fruitage 185 

XIII. Those Amazing Americans .... 191 



xii CONTENTS 

PART III 
Chapter Page 

XIV. Welfare Work 194 

XV. "Welfare Work is Practical Re- 
ligion" 206 

_ XVI. The Housing Problem 241 

XVII. The Housing Problem in the United 

States 261 

XVIII. Thrift and Old Age Pensions . . 281 

XIX. The Ultimate Problem 295 

XX. Conclusion 318 



APPENDICES 

A. " Studies in Character Building "... 332 

B. The Need of a Legion of Honour in 

America 336 

C. A New and Workable Scheme of Land 

Nationalisation 341 

D. Ministers of Humanity : An Interesting 

Experiment in School Management . . . 346 



\ 



^' O^ THE \ 

UNIVERSITY 3 

OF 

BETTERMENT 

PART I 

CHAPTER I 

INDUSTRIAL-STATECRAFT HARMONISING THE 

INTERESTS OF CAPITAL AND LABOUR 

Niagaras of force have been running to 
waste since the world began, awaiting the 
inspired engineer to transform them into Hght 
and power. Human forces are in constant 
conflict, or are pulHng in opposite directions 
and nullifying one another. But when the 
inspired organiser appears, he trains these can- 
celling forces into union, and we have the 
force of an army instead of the confused and 
impotent struggle of a mob. 

Many of the conflicts between capital and 
labour are disastrous waste of force which 
statesman-like insight on both sides would 
save. A natural impatience of the slow march 
of progress induces labour to grasp at imme- 
diate results without seeing that victory may 
bring greater disasters than defeat. An imme- 
j diate rise in wages may mean the ultimate 
' ruin of the employer and the particular trade 



2 BETTERMENT 

by allowing the markets to be captured by 
rival states or countries. On the other hand 
capital, in greedy haste for gain, may be 
equally shortsighted, and provoke paralysing 
conflict or organised preparation for conflict 
which by its standing menace may handi- 
cap the employer in the war of industrial 
competition. 

Working ideals we must have, and even 
when they are Utopian they may be helpful 
and stimulating if rightly used. They are 
splendid driving forces when the conditions 
are realised and the right steps taken. For 
instance, shorter hours for labour are in every 
way desirable, but if these are granted in one 
country, while the others continue the long 
hours, that country will be so handicapped in 
competition that its trade may be ruined and 
the workers thrown out of employment. 

Ready employment for all willing workers 
is eminently desirable, but if we attempt to 
attain this by limiting the output, so that more 
men are employed, we shall so increase the 
cost of the product that the trade may be 
destroyed or pass to the foreigner. But this 
is not the only disaster that may overtake the 
attempt to attain a good end by shortsighted 
means. To limit the output by the wage- 



BETTERMENT 3 

worker is essentially dishonest, and if gener- 
ally practised would destroy the morale of 
the whole industrial community. It would 
demoralise the worker, breed laziness and in- 
efficiency, and start him on the down-grade 
to dissolute worthlessness. So, in trying to 
increase the amount of employment by limit- 
ing the output, the worker may demoralise 
himself and the trade, throw the whole staff 
out of employ, and thus commit quicker or 
slower suicide. These simple and obvious 
illustrations show how dangerous it is to 
strive for right ends by wrong means, or to 
try short-cuts that are generally the longest 
way round. 

The dominant factor to-day is the ruthless 
competitive war in which the whole industrial 
world is engaged, and to fail in it may be a 
greater calamity than to be overcome in actual 
war. France suffered a terrible defeat at the 
hands of Germany, was mulct in millions of 
money, and shorn of two provinces ; but these 
losses only served to bring out the virtues of 
her people and her wonderful powers of re- 
cuperation. To-day she is as bright and 
prosperous as ever and in the front rank of 
civilisation; but had she been as dependent 
on foreign trade as the English are, and had 



4 BETTERMENT 

Germany killed or captured her foreign trade, 
she would have been in a much worse plight. 
Masses of the people would have been driven 
from their beloved country, or have been 
starved, and France would have been reduced 
to the rank of a third or fourth rate power. 

This commercial war is interminable, ad- 
mitting of no periods of peace; and no Peace 
Congress can save us from it. Recognising 
this, we know how we stand, — we know the 
essential conditions of success and the awful 
penalties of failure. So employers and em- 
ployed are virtually an army in war time, and 
a strike may be as fatal to all concerned as a 
mutiny of soldiers in the face of an enemy. 
From this point of view the capital and labour 
of any country have many interests in com- 
mon. The growing recognition of this fact 
is one of the most hopeful signs of the times. 
Institutions like the National Civic Federa- 
tion of New York, which aims at bringing 
capital and labour together to consider the 
problems confronting both, and which tries to 
look at these problems from a national rather 
than a sectional standpoint, are the most 
promising agencies of industrial betterment. 

Modern commercial competition is so anal- 
ogous to actual war that the conditions of 



BETTERMENT 5 

success are manifest. They are : thoroughness 
of organisation, discipHne, brains, alertness, 
energy, and general efficiency. Hitherto the 
organisation of material forces has sufficed, 
but brains count for more than muscle, and 
one of the most wonderful of the " Model 
Factories " of America has been well called 
*' A 5,000 Brain- Power Organisation." This 
marks a new epoch, a higher stage in evolu- 
tion; the organisation of brains, of intelli- 
gence, is a new departure which will have 
powerful and far-reaching effects. 

There is a tide in the affairs of men — a 
general trend towards a far-distant ideal — 
which all events conspire to further, which 
cannot be retarded, but which may be accel- 
erated with the minimum of friction. By dis- 
cerning the direction of this trend we may 
hitch our machinery to Nature's own power- 
MJigm^ and thus multiply our forces indefi- 
^UPP Emerson's poetical suggestion that we 
should hitch our wagon to a star was a flash 
of real insight into the powers ever at our 
service if we have wit enough to harness 
them. 

There is an idea which all history, all ex- 
perience teaches, and which has found em- 
bodiment in every ideal, whether religious 



6 BETTERMENT 

or secular, — the idea of solidarity, of unity 
of interest, of brotherhood, — which cannot be 
ignored with impunity. Isolation is impotence; 
unity is strength and the essential condition 
of all real progress. 

The true statesman discerns the distant 
goal and the general trend leading to it, and 
he perceives that all effective action depends 
on discerning not only the right steps towards 
it, but also their right order and their only 
effective sequence. Disheartening failures arise 
from neglecting to secure a base before at- 
tempting a further advance ; from trying futile 
short-cuts, tr3ang to do the work of to-morrow 
instead of concentrating all energy on the task 
of to-day. 

The real task of to-day, forced on us by a 
chain of causes that we can neither resist nor 
question, is the perfecting of all forms of 
organisation. We flatter ourselves wh^ 
speak of our " civilisation," which is 
a higher stage and will come later. Or- 
ganisation is the foundation of civilisation, 
and we are laying the foundations. Organi- 
sation is power, is largely aggressive, and com- 
pels counter-organisation. Labour organises; 
capital responds. On a larger scale a nation 
organises its forces, military or industrial, 



BETTERMENT T 

and so compels other nations to do likewise. 
By the law of its being, organisation in- 
creases, the larger organisations absorbing 
the smaller; and there can be no halt or 
regress until organisation is world-wide. Its 
aggressive nature can be checked by counter- 
organisation bringing about an equilibrium, 
thus rendering war impossible or suicidal, 
whether between nations or between capital 
and labour. War in all its forms is disci- 
plinary and educative, and until we learn the 
lesson, and discipline ourselves to the highest 
state of efficiency, war and its waste will 
go on. 

Therefore Efficiency in Excelsis — efficiency 
in the highest attainable — must be our motto, 
our watchword. That is Nature's great pur- 
pose, the object and end of evolution. If we 
put ourselves in line with this purpose, we 
hitch our machinery to Nature's own power- 
house; we put ourselves in line with the great 
law of progress; our work will prosper, and 
any reform on the same lines will carry its 
own dynamic. 



CHAPTER II 

EFFICIENCY 



In Striving for the highest attainable effi- 
ciency we must begin with the unit. Re- 
formers have been much exercised over the 
absurdity of taking such great care with the 
breeding of animals, while we allow human 
beings to breed in any manner and under the 
most unwholesome conditions. Yet of what 
moment is it whether animals are of this or 
that form, compared with the awful possi- 
bilities attending the birth of a single human 
being? A whole race of criminals has been 
traced to one unfortunate birth, while endless 
benefactions may be traced to a fortunate one. 
This leaves out of account the possibilities of 
the happiness or the misery of the individual. 
While this haphazard breeding is deplorable, 
it would probably be more deplorable for 
society to interfere while men remain so 
strangely blind to what is the real purpose 
of life. 



BETTERMENT 9 

The whole subject of the relation of the 
sexes is complex and puzzling, and is the only 
problem reformers cannot solve, even theoreti- 
cally. While teachers point in one direction, 
Nature seems to be pointing in the other. But 
although we cannot see any thorough-going 
solution of the problem, we can see one step 
ahead, and we can note one or two momentous 
tendencies. 

Marriage seems to be getting less popular, 
and to be regarded less and less as a necessity 
by both sexes. So many women become wage- 
earners that they are less dependent on mar- 
riage; while young men, having so many 
more competitors in so many walks of life, 
find it more and more difficult to marry young. 
This brings many complex evils which pass the 
wit of man to deal with, as every attempt to do 
so but drives them under ground, aggravating 
the evils themselves, and creating worse ones. 

Another tendency is the decreasing fruit- 
fulness of marriage. This is portentous. 
Those who by all accepted standards it is most 
desirable should increase and multiply are just 
those who shirk the responsibilities of a family, 
while the undesirable ones propagate with un- 
diminished fertility. What happens with indi- 
viduals is repeated on a larger scale by nations 



10 BETTERMENT 

or peoples. The " lower '' the race the faster 
it breeds; while the higher and more civilised 
races tend to slacken the pace, become station- 
ary, or actually decrease. This suggests that 
we are on the broad way to national perdition, 
the survival of the unfit; but Nature does not 
yet seem ready to advance beyond her highest 
attained point. She seems to aim at raising 
her children from the lower strata, to keep 
things surging upwards from below. 

Shoals of apparently undesirable aliens pour 
into the United States, taxing the nation's 
power of assimilation to the utmost, but in a 
generation or two these people are raised in 
the scale and become good Americans. For 
the time being this keeps down the average, 
and a few of these strangers bring some hor- 
rible old-world devilry with them; but the 
' nation is gainer in the end. The mixing of 
' races tends to evolve a higher type. Nature's 
' selective action tends to maintain the better 
qualities and eliminate the lower. It is the 
mixed races that have done the greatest things 
in the world. The United States and the vast 
British Empire are Nature's huge mixing-vats, 
with ingredients supplied by all peoples, — 
alembics from which Nature distils the finer 
essences of humanity. The Celtic setting of the 



BETTERMENT 11 

Anglo-Saxon race in Great Britain has been an 
enormous source of strength and inspiration. 
The inrush of those hardy old sea-dogs, the 
Vikings, in the early days supplied an invalu- 
able element. For her generosity in offering 
an asylum for the persecuted of all lands 
England has received Nature's benediction, as 
some of these outcasts brought new industries 
to her shores and permanently enriched her, 
pecuniarily and racially. London, especially 
the East End of it, is a seething cauldron, 
almost a witches' cauldron, of outcast aliens 
which even the United States reject. Good 
ultimately will come of this mixing up of 
nationalities, though at a frightful cost of 
present suffering to the natives. 

This mixing up of all nationalities in the 
realms of the Anglo-Saxon has wider bear- 
ings. The English-speaking peoples, " the 
subjects of King Shakespeare," could, if 
thoroughly united, be the Peacemakers or 
the Peacekeepers of the world, and as all 
nationalities would be represented among 
them they would have the breadth of sym- 
pathy and the knowledge to exercise their 
sway acceptably. 

This digression was needed to determine 
what it is that Nature is aiming at. We must 



12 BETTERMENT 

remember that the world is governed almost 
entirely by amateurs, the professional politician 
being anathema in most countries. 

Amateurishness vitiates the great body of 
political and sociological opinion. Any attempt 
to grasp Nature's aim and methods sets men 
gasping, and they hasten from the heights 
down to the more congenial " practical '' plane 
where the outlook is so restricted that it is 
always " the unexpected that happens.'' The 
sufferings of humanity are scourgings of 
Schoolma'am Nature to teach us her lessons. 
She is doing the work herself and pointing the 
way, and whipping us for our failure to dis- 
cern her plan and avoid suffering by co-opera- 
tion with her. 

I have endeavored to show that it is not 
Nature's plan to proceed upwards from her 
highest point, but to lift up the lower orders 
to a higher plane. Those who lament that the 
higher orders, the more sensitive and nervous 
folk, are limiting the output of offspring, fail 
to grasp Nature's intention, and to perceive 
that the course of events is safer in her hands 
than in theirs. 

It is evident, therefore, that Nature's pur- 
pose, which we should make our own if we 
wish our work to prosper, is not so much to 



BETTERMENT 13 

increase the more highly evolved specimens of 
the race, who are shirking the burdens and 
responsibiHty of sustaining their kind, as to 
lift up the lower strata, and by so doing give 
herself a base from which she may advance to 
greater heights than any yet attained. 

II 

The decreasing fertility of the civilised 
peoples may be counteracted in two ways, — 
by increasing the longevity of the individuals, 
and by taking greater care of the children 
who are born into the world. The latter 
problem we shall consider first. 

While the age of intense race-pressure con- 
tinues, a declining birth-rate means a loss of 
power, and may mean ultimate subjection, or 
swamping, of the stagnating peoples by the 
more virile and more prolific. This pressure 
is analogous to that of the atmosphere. De- 
crease of pressure, as shown by the falling 
barometer, invites a storm, an inrush of wind 
or water from elsewhere to equalise the pres- 
sure. So human lives become of vital impor- 
tance to a state which values its liberty. The 
question then is: What is the economic and 
the political value of the wastrels of society? 



14 BETTERMENT 

If they are allowed to die, they are a dead loss ; 
and if they are allowed to run wild, they are 
a menace to health, to property, and to the 
morals of the community, and an enormous 
cost. An army of police and detectives is 
needed- to secure property and to detect crime. 
Judges and jailers are needed, all costing large 
sums, in addition to the maintenance of crim- 
inals. This takes no account of the appre- 
hension of robbery and violence which always 
harasses our sense of happy security, nor does 
it take account of the sympathetic suffering 
which all good hearts must feel at the sight of 
the misery and squalor which cannot be hidden 
from any seeing eyes. Neither does it take 
into account the discomfort and the heart- 
searchings which must accompany the refusal 
of the thousand and one begging appeals which 
no one can avoid. Then there are the sympa- 
thetic pangs of the religious folk in seeing this 
stream of outcasts hastening as they believe to 
a fiery perdition. If we take account of all 
these considerations, we see a manifold loss to 
the community in letting these unfortunate 
brothers and sisters of ours go to the devil on 
motors of their own devising. 

If it can be shown that this terrible loss 
may be averted and these wastrels turned into 



BETTERMENT 15 

valuable citizens, then in the name of political 
economy and common sense why do we not 
save this waste, lessen this misery and the 
all-round discomfort, and thus enable ourselves 
to give a better account of our stewardship of 
the advantages that have fallen to our lot? 
There is abundant evidence to prove that these 
slum seedlings can, through means of proved 
efficacy, be converted into valuable citizens at 
less cost than it takes to deal with them later 
as thieves, tramps, vagabonds, or as wander- 
ing disseminators of physical and moral dis- 
ease. This is to put it on an economic basis 
and to set aside the humanitarian considera- 
tions ; the latter, however, have a sort of mon- 
etary value of their own, giving us the only 
wealth which is subject to no death-duties, 
and the only wealth we can take with us to 
start life in the other world. 

There are many different agencies of a phil- 
anthropic character already dealing with these 
problems, in fragmentary fashion, and these 
furnish us with " practical pointers " as to the 
way we should go. The work of one great- 
hearted, whole-souled enthusiast, in spite of 
the persecutions and misrepresentations of 
zealots who place their creed above God and 
humanity, has built up one of the biggest light- 



16 BETTERMENT 

houses in the United Kingdom, which throws 
its beams over the dark sea that engulfs " the 
submerged tenth/' Dr. Barnardo, who in 
himself illustrated the value of the mixing of 
races, focussing in his own person the genius 
of Spain, England, Ireland, and Germany, was 
one of the most remarkable products of the 
nineteenth century. The Rev. Hugh Price 
Hughes said of his work : " Never in the his- 
tory of even Qiristian civilisation did any 
human being in any land establish such an 
institution, so vast and so many-sided, as Dr. 
Barnardo's Homes.'' '' This," says the Bishop 
of Hereford, " is really a national institution, 
doing a great and national work in the broad- 
est Christian spirit, rising above all our de- 
nominational differences and embracing all 
Christian sects." Testimony could be multi- 
plied from the King downwards as to the value 
of this great child-saving work. 

Dr. Barnardo, " The Foster-Father of No- 
body's Children," the apostle of the " Ever- 
Open-Door," began his work in the smallest 
way. Taking the most hopeless children of 
the abyss, he cleaned, clothed, and trained them 
to be useful members of society and freed 
them from the criminal malaria of the slums. 
His object was always to provide these parent- 



BETTERMENT 17 

less wastrels with a home, and not herd them 
into soul-deadening barracks; to surround 
them with love and personal interest, and not 
subject them to the dead and deadening rou- 
tine discipline. This was a manifold boon; 
it was not only a boon to the poor little 
motherless mites, but it also provided an out- 
let for the maternal instincts of women denied 
the crown of wifehood and motherhood by the 
cruelly unnatural social arrangements we have 
drifted into. The movement carried its own 
benediction from the first. It has grown and 
prospered, and is prospering beyond the 
dreams of the most sanguine. It has ramified 
until it has branches throughout the United 
Kingdom and Ireland, and it has made its 
influence felt nearly all over the British Em- 
pire, especially in Canada. " i6,i6o trained 
boys and girls have been emigrated to the 
Colonies, while 30,000 others have been placed 
out in service in England, or sent to sea, or 
given a trade. . . . Immense crowds of helpless 
boys and girls have entered its doors wretched 
and forlorn. In a short time they have been 
transformed, as if by a magician's wand, into 
healthy, happy lads and lasses, with a purpose 
in life and a high aim before them." 

A mere catalogue of the institutions cov- 



18 BETTERMENT 

ered by the designation of " Dr. Barnardo's 
Homes " would fill pages. They range from 
the " Babies' Castle '' in Kent, the Girls' Gar- 
den City, Hospital, Refuge, Industrial Farm, 
Shipping and Emigration Agencies, all forms 
of Homes, to the Watts' Naval Training 
School, with imposing buildings in one of the 
loveliest and healthiest spots in Norfolk. 

This great philanthropic and humanitarian 
work is a monument of what religious enthu- 
siasm and organising genius can do. Like 
George Muller of Bristol, who did such mar- 
vellous works by prayer. Dr. Barnardo relied 
on it as a sort of wireless telegraphy which 
brought him into touch with sympathetic minds 
who responded to his appeals for help. Like 
the Christian Scientists, he " demonstrated 
substance " whenever it was needed, and with 
marvellous success. The list of strange ** co- 
incidences," where funds have flown in at 
critical moments, in apparent answer to prayer, 
would stagger the most sturdy sceptic, and 
compel him to admit that " there is something 
in it." 

The one certain fact — and with that alone 
I am now concerned — is the dynamic energy 
of religious conviction; it is a force to be 
reckoned with and used by every wise re- 



BETTERMENT 19 

former. The work done by the Salvation 
Army, however much its methods may jar on 
sensitive souls, is acknowledged even by kings 
and legislators to be a great force for good 
in a nation's life. The Church Army is doing 
similarly good work. These religious and 
philanthropic forces should be used to the 
utmost, and the generous subscribers may be 
assured that they are not only banking funds 
in heaven, but that the whole nation is reap- 
ing pecuniary benefit in this world from their 
outlay. 

My aim is not to preach, but to treat these 
matters on an economic and business basis. 
The great organisers who have done so much 
to attain a higher stage of industrial evolu- 
tion regard it as a part of their educational 
mission to show that well-organised philan- 
thropy pays; that if a thing is good, it will 
carry its own driving forces with it. If we 
can only put what is regarded as " altruistic " 
work on a business basis and show that it 
pays, no preaching is needed, for the work 
will prosper on a dollar footing. That intan- 
gible or spiritual dollars will also flow in as 
a sort of higher compound interest, in the 
gratification and the rebound of happiness be- 
stowed, is a certainty in the higher economics. 



20 BETTERMENT 

With that coming science we are not at present 
concerned. 

The work of General Booth, the Church 
Army, and Dr. Barnardo, it is true, forms 
but a part of the multifarious charitable in- 
stitutions of Great Britain. In the United 
States their name is legion. Far-reaching as 
they are, however, they do not and cannot 
cover the whole ground, and they need sup- 
plementing with national and corporate effort 
on a business footing. 

The best suggestion I have yet met comes 
from that latest of Epicurean philosophers, 
Mr. Horace Fletcher, in his remarkable little 
book entitled: "That Last Waif, or Social 
Quarantine." In this he argues that the state 
should guard itself as carefully against un- 
trained children as it does against children 
suffering from infectious disease. This is 
what he means by " Social Quarantine," and 
he shows that one untrained or vicious child 
may be a veritable plague spot, infecting not 
only its whole surroundings but succeeding 
generations. A case is given of a single neg- 
lected child in a wealthy community of New 
York state, from whom there came a notorious 
stock of criminals, vagabonds, and paupers, 
whose existence imperilled property and every 



BETTERMENT 21 

individual in the community. Not less than 
twelve hundred persons were traced as the 
lineage of six children who were born of one 
perverted and depraved woman. She was once 
a pure, sweet, dimpled little child, and, with 
proper influences thrown about her at a tender 
age, might have given to the world twelve 
hundred progeny who would have blest their 
day and generation. " Look at the tremen- 
dous fact involved ! In neglecting to train this 
one child to ways of virtue and well-doing, 
the descendants of the respectable neighbours 
of that child have been compelled to endure 
the depredations, and support in almshouses 
and prisons, scores of her descendants for six 
generations ! " Cases of this kind might be 
multiplied showing an immense all-round loss 
to the community. 

The question is, Can this be prevented? 
Abundant evidence is given to show that it can. 
Kindergartens and other character-forming 
institutions, if they secure the children young 
enough,^ can relieve these unfortunate waifs 
from the supposed tyranny of heredity and 
make good citizens of them. Mr. Fletcher 
was in communication with the ablest kinder- 
garteners and a large number of persons 

1 See Appendix A. 



2^ BETTERMENT 

engaged in educational, correctional, political, 
and business affairs in the United States and 
in England, and he summarises their opinions 
in this remarkable way : " Ninety-eight per 
cent of the condemned and neglected * hope- 
lessly submerged ten per cent stratum ' of 
cruel tradition have been reclaimed by present 
methods of care, and one hundred per cent 
can be saved to useful citizenship by means 
of prevention instead of correction. One 
one-hundredth of present incomes of one- 
half the people saved from waste and ap- 
plied to thorough quarantine will prevent 
the causes which now result in ten times the 
amount being swallowed up in futile attempts 
at correction by means of punishment, and 
which do not give security from the curse of 
unsafe, unsanitary, and uncleanly conditions/' 

Dr. Barnardo said : " Within the past 
twenty-six years nine thousand five hundred 
and fifty-six trained boys and girls, the flower 
of my flock, have been placed out in situations 
in the Colonies, and have been continuously 
looked after and supervised ever since by a 
company of devoted and experienced men 
and women. Results recently tabulated in 
the reports to and from the Government of 
Canada show that the failure among these 



BETTERMENT 23 

emigrants is less than two per cent (actually 
1.84 per cent) of the whole." 

Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, a great authority on 

these matters, said that in fourteen years, out 

of about 16,000 kindergarten children, they 

had the history of about 9,000, and of these 

\ not one had been arrested for crime. Mr. 

\ Crowley, Chief of Police, declared that out 

/ of 8,000 children arrested for crime in San 

i Francisco, but one had been trained in a 

kindergarten. 

Dr. J. H. Kellogg, of the great Battle 
Creek Sanitarium, has done and is doing ex- 
cellent work in child saving. He has a Home- 
School somewhat on Dr. Barnardo^s lines; 
but, in addition, he has adopted into his own 
home no less than forty children, many of 
them taken from the most hopeless environ- 
ment. Some of these have gone out into the 
world with fine, well-formed characters, and 
are doing excellent Christ-work in saving 
others from the abysmal depths. He has still 
about fifteen at home, and the warm-hearted 
doctor says he and his good wife could not 
spare one of them. When looking at them, 
I saw at once that while some had angel faces 
others, under anything but the most perfect 
training, would have been " little Turks '' to 



M BETTERMENT 

deal with. As it is, their behaviour is perfect, 
and the discipHne has been that of love and 
kindness instead of severity. The doctor and 
his wife take the position of advisers rather 
than that of school drill-sergeants ; good habits 
are built into them physiologically, and are 
organically remembered. They are worked 
into the growing organism, as it were, and 
are registered in the system and become almost 
automatic.^ When these children are from 
home, the manner in which the elder ones 
care for the younger is so touching that the 
physician doctor, who spoke of it, did so with 
a tremor in her voice. Look on this picture, 
and then think of these heaven's guests on 
earth left in those devil's dustbins, the slums 
of a great city. What would they have been? 
These children will go into the world, and each 
will be an infectious health-spot, spreading 
health and happiness everywhere; had they 
grown up in festering slums, they might have 
become plague-spots, really more dangerous 
to society than the diseases about which we are 
so terrified. 

This is but one of a thousand examples that 
might be given of the awful responsibilities 

1 Mrs. Kellogg has published a book on child-training 
which is of great value. See Appendix A. 



BETTERMENT 26 

resting on society as to what it shall do 
with its " apprentice-citizens." The question 
is, whether, on a mere dollar basis, it is not 
better to spend money on creches, kindergar- 
tens, and training schools than on asylums, 
prisons, police, and all the other means of 
protection forced on us by the existence of a 
criminal class? On the dollar ground alone 
there can be no doubt as to which is the better 
economy. But when we think of all the crime, 
disease, and misery on the one hand, and the 
health, happiness, and general well-being that 
society is designed to promote, the argument 
in favour of thorough social quarantine is 
overwhelming. Let us sum it up in a few 
propositions : 

(a) With the growing tendency of women 
to shirk the burdens of a family, every human 
being born into the world becomes of more 
and more value, nationally and socially. There- 
fore sound economy would dictate turning them 
to the best possible account. 

(6) It is proved that the worst slum chil- 
dren, if taken young enough, and put through 
kindergartens or other character-building in- 
stitutions, will become valuable members of 
society, a strength instead of a weakness. 

(c) Therefore it would be good economy to 



26 BETTERMENT 

put a " cordon of care '' around all new arri- 
vals into the world, as we do with arrivals 
from other countries, to prevent the importa- 
tion of infectious disease. 

(d) The quarantine cordon, to be effective, 
must be complete, — there must be no loopholes 
for escape. As one case of smallpox may infect 
a whole neighbourhood or a whole community, 
so one untrained child may be a veritable plague 
spot, and infect not only a community but 
coming generations. The deadly disease is a 
mere passing trifle compared with the lasting 
consequences of neglecting children who may 
be the breeders and disseminators of disease in 
its most ghastly forms. While all present 
child-saving agencies should be encouraged, 
an official, a national cordon should be placed 
around them to catch those who escape their 
nets. 

The dollar cost would be considerable at 
first, but it would be a very small insurance 
charge on those who have most to fear from 
burglaries and other depredations to which 
property is liable. This, it is true, would be 
paying insurance for benefits to be reaped by 
the rising generation. It might be regarded 
as death duties paid in advance. At present 
we are saddled with the cost of a continuous 



BETTERMENT 27 

war, in which there is no truce or periods of 
peace. This never-ending struggle is between 
the forces of law and order, of health and 
cleanliness, against those of crime, filth, dis- 
ease, and all forms of misery. The cost of 
this war, and the cost of maintaining the 
prisoners, amounts to a heavy national tax. 
With effectual social quarantine this tax would 
be gradually reduced, and at the same time 
a valuable, wealth-producing addition to the 
population would be growing up. Thus there 
would be a double gain in money alone. The 
moral and the spiritual gain, and the gain in 
health and happiness to the entire community, 
would be incalculable. 

Every child born into the world is poten- 
tially an angel or a devil ; it rests with society 
to determine which it shall become. 



CHAPTER III 

TRAINING — CAPACITY CULTURE 

One of the most enviable of titles, or 
nicknames, ever bestowed was that won by 
Launcelot Brown, the great English landscape 
gardener, who is known to history as " Capa- 
bility Brown." M. Solvay, of Brussels, who 
has treated the problems of the time with great 
knowledge and insight, urges that a nation's 
most pressing interest is to increase the num- 
ber of its capable men, that the development 
of productive capacity in all grades should be 
one of the chief aims of education. As we 
have the term " proletariat " we should adopt 
the word " capacitariat," to denote that class 
of men of great organising and producing 
capacity on whom our future so largely de- 
pends. This should be the equivalent of a 
Legion of Honour, which is an institution 
greatly needed in the United States ^ to give 
distinction to its men of brains and its leaders 
in the public service. 

In view of the ever-increasing demand on 

1 See Appendix B. 



BETTERMENT 29 

all-round capabilities it is essential in our 
capacity-culture to develop the young in an 
all-round way. We need a nation of " handy 
men/' If we apprentice a boy to an estab- 
lished trade, new machinery, new applications 
of force, or new demands, by the time he has 
learned it, may throw his laboriously acquired 
trade quite out of date. The old apprentice- 
ship training tends to put a young man into 
a rut, from which he escapes with difficulty. 
This is true of trades and professions alike; 
any system that can be taught is apt to anchor 
a man, and be looked on as an end, instead 
of a base for further advance. It is faculty 
we should train, rather than systems, which 
tend to bind a man to out-of-date methods 
and engender obstructive conservatism. 

A general all-round training should be 
given as the best base for ultimate speciali- 
sation, and also for discovering what the 
pupil is best fitted for. A man is doubly a 
man if he finds his true vocation. Half the 
tragedies of life arise from men occupying 
positions for which they are unfitted. A mis- 
taken calling may cause a man's work to be 
a life-long drudgery, whereas if he had found 
his true vocation his work might have been 
a life-long pleasure. Many a man is prevented 



30 BETTERMENT 

from following his bent by the fear of losing 
caste. He takes to a profession for which he 
is utterly unfitted for fear of sinking in the 
social scale by assuming a trade which he 
would have adorned. Thus we have a wasted 
life, and as he probably keeps a better man 
out, he not only spoils his own career but 
another's as well. The narrow and misguided 
social opinion which thus forces men into 
wrong positions, and prevents their taking 
those for which they are really fitted, is grad- 
ually widening, as we see coronet-crowned 
heads entering trade, and ladies of high de- 
gree doing likewise. This widening of opinion 
needs accelerating, as these prejudices inter- 
fere with national efficiency. 

When men are free to follow their natural 
leanings, a great step in advance will have 
been taken. Then the further problem re- 
mains, — how shall we find out a boy's true 
bent? The kindergarten play-work should 
give some indications, and I see very power- 
ful reasons for extending a similar system 
through the whole range of education. 

(a) In the first place, there is no doubt that 
a large share of national energy in England 
is wasted in more or less useless play. The 
time and vital energy expended in attaining 



BETTERMENT 31 

distinction in a game would give a man a 
useful trade or profession. The keen excite- 
ment of the great games is an actual intoxi- 
cation, and is apt to be as ^demoralising as 
other forms of intoxication. The fruitful 
emulation in the real work of life seems deadly 
dull in comparison. It is apt to be regarded 
as a bore, a mere interruption of play. Play 
thus becomes the real end of life, and the bread 
and butter business becomes mere drudgery, 
to be hastened through in a perfunctory way. 

(b) Physical culture and recreation, the 
principal justification of these games, which so 
often spoil a man for real work, may be had in 
better and more profitable ways. Games are! 
good and useful when they fulfil the true pur- 
pose of recreation, and refresh and strengthen 
a man for the real business of life; but when^ 
they take the zest out of work and put it all 
into play, it is pernicious and suicidal. 

In my cricketing days, batting and bowling 
filled my whole horizon. When I played 
chess, my days and long sleepless nights were 
filled with openings, gambits, and endings; 
all other interests in life seemed tame beside 
these absorbing problems. Boys of all ages 
are greatly influenced by their surroundings, 
and when the talk and thoughts are all about 



32 BETTERMENT 

play, work becomes drudgery. A demoral- 
ising element has obtained a dangerous foot- 
ing in England. If a man obtains distinction 
in his varsity sports, it becomes a stepping- 
stone to educational posts for which the ath- 
lete may be quite unfitted, and hundreds of 
boys may get a bad start in consequence. If 
the boys are not actually encouraged to look 
upon games as the real object in life, they at 
least miss those stimulating, character-forming 
influences which can only come from the born 
genius for teaching. The great athlete may 
be a great scholar and educator as well, and 
his athletics may be kept in their proper place ; 
but such men are exceptional. 

(c) As the play element is an essential one 
I would not curtail it, but would direct it into 
more profitable channels. The healthy boy 
hates to be still; the accumulating energy 
must be let off, as is shown by the roar of 
relief with which most boys break out of 
school. If work is sufficiently varied, it be- 
comes recreative ; and if one had not too much 
of it, nearly every form of work would be a 
pleasure. So an aim of education should be 
to turn some of the superfluous energy that 
is wasted in play, into profitable work; that 
is, work that trains the muscles and the mind 



BETTERMENT 33 

at the same time, giving a general insight 
into various handicrafts which would be a 
useful base for any special trade or profession 
afterwards chosen. 

Manual training is held in high and growing 
esteem by all " live " nations as a most valu- 
able, not to say an indispensable, element in 
education, or capacity culture. This was abun- 
dantly manifested at the World's Fair at St. 
Louis, a visit to which was a liberal education 
in itself. The manual training was much in 
evidence in all the educational exhibits. Its 
value was emphatically insisted on by the 
Mosely Commissioners in their admirable re- 
ports.^ As these invaluable papers are, or 
should be, in the hands of every educator, I 
shall quote from a still later report, made by 
a commission sent out by the National Cash 
Register Company for the purpose of improv- 
ing the schools of Dayton, which they are 
doing their utmost to make fully worthy of its 
title of " The Gem City." In America much 
of the statesman-like ability which in the older 

1 Mr. A. Mosely deserves a big monument for his happy 
inspiration and his insight, not to mention his munificence, in 
taking out his two Commissions to the United States, — one 
to inquire into industrial, and the other into educational sys- 
tems. He showed true statesman-like appreciation of England's 
pressing needs. 

3 



34 BETTERMENT 

countries would overrun into politics goes into 
the building up of great industrial organisa- 
tions. This genius for organising is not con- 
tent with building up vast industrial concerns 
with branches all over the world, but runs over 
and brightens and improves all surrounding 
conditions. This is notably the case with the 
National Cash Register Company. Dr. Ken- 
dall, of the Shortridge High School, on receiv- 
ing this commission, said: "This is the greatest 
thing I have ever heard of, — a manufacturer 
sending out men to investigate for the benefit 
of the schools in the city where the factory is 
located. A private enterprise doing so much 
good cannot be spoken of too highly, and any- 
thing Indianapolis can do to assist you, you 
may depend upon.'' The readiness of Dr. 
Kendall and other public men to place the 
results of their experience at the service of 
others is characteristic of American broadness 
and generosity. This was experienced through- 
out by the Mosely Commissions, and in my 
own small way my inquiries met with the same 
great quality. 

The National Cash Register Commission 
found everywhere the same emphatic testi- 
mony as to the value of manual training. 
This training differs from the higher special- 



BETTERMENT 35 

ised technology. It aims at giving a general 
insight into the use of tools, and laying a 
broad base for the higher specialisations. In 
Washington, Professor Reichel says : " Manual 
training is organised on a correlated system 
right up from the kindergarten through the 
lower and higher elementary grades and the 
high school. The co-ordination is so perfect 
that, as the principal of the Franklyn Public 
School expressed it, moving up from the ele- 
mentary school to the high school was like 
moving up from one grade to another in 
the elementary school." In the representative 
schools of Indianapolis, as the National Cash 
Register Committee tells us, the work grades 
up from the kindergarten. " There are classes 
in elementary manual training in which the 
boys are taught knife work, consisting of wood- 
work, with the use of only a hammer and knife 
for the first grade. The work develops gradu- 
ally to bench work under a special teacher. In 
the bench room the boys are taught to design 
their own patterns, cut out their own work, and 
do everything necessary toward the making of 
the finished product. While the Committee 
was there the boys — ranging in age from nine 
to eleven years — were working on a roller 
towel rack, and the skill displayed by some 



7 



36 BETTERMENT 

of them was wonderful. They are taught 
poHteness in connection with this work, and 
are required to assist each other whenever pos- 
sible.'* In the manual training high schools, 
or some of them, in the first year, " the boys 
have wood-working and freehand drawing ; the 
girls, cooking and sewing. Stenography and 
commercial book-keeping are then taken up. 
This is in addition to the academic studies. In 
the second year, forging, mechanical drawing, 
freehand drawing, botany, book-keeping, and 
stenography ; in the third year, foundry work, 
mechanical drawing, freehand drawing, and 
chemistry; in the fourth year, machine fit- 
ting, mechanical drawing, freehand drawing, 
and physiology are taken up." The course is 
so arranged that an academic study is followed 
by a manual training study, which allows the 
pent-up energy of the child to find some vent. 
As Professor Emrich stated : *' Manual train- 
ing is the safety-valve which takes care of 
the overflow of spirits. Our manual training 
school is a complete high school plus the man- 
ual training." 

It is found that scholars so trained hold their 
own in examinations with those who have only 
taken the academic course. This is a signifi- 
cant point. It is found that the two branches 



BETTERMENT 37 

of work illustrate and help each other. To 
manual training about six hours are devoted 
out of the thirty or twenty-five per week, and it 
is only taken on two or three days in the week. 
My contention is, that as part of every day 
is spent in boisterous play or physical training, 
a part of each day should be devoted to vari- 
ous kinds of manual training. The work 
should be of the vigorous order, to serve as 
physical exercise, to let off the superfluous 
energy. In favourable weather part of this 
work should be out of doors, and where land 
is available it should sometimes take the form 
of gardening. But even in this play-work good 
form should be insisted on, and the work should 
be done neatly and deftly. Great care should 
always be taken never to tire the workers, 
or, at all events, never to induce more than a 
pleasurable sense of fatigue. As soon as it 
becomes work, or burdensome, it should be 
changed, so as never to produce distaste for it. 
With vigorous exercise such as this, and the 
military drill, nearly all the requirements of 
physical training would be attained, and less 
time would be needed in the gymnasium. This 
would be good physiological economy, as in- 
stead of exercise for exercise sake, the exer- 
cise would be attained in a more interesting 



38 BETTERMENT 

way, and in every case there would be some- 
thing to show for it, either in gained knowledge 
or in actual products. 

During all this varied play-work the teachers 
might drop a thousand hints in natural philoso- 
phy illustrated by points in the work. These, 
coming at the psychological moment, would 
often be of more value to the pupil than elabo- 
rate lectures apropos of nothing in particular. 

There are more advantages in such a 
course of training than can be even mentioned 
now. It would be a great good to level up all 
occupations,^ so that a man could engage in 
the work he is best fitted for without losing 
caste. It would also give him the best pos- 
sible chance of finding his true vocation, and 
so getting the best work out of himself of 
which he is capable, with the greatest amount 
of pleasure and the least sense of drudgery, 
and thus avoid those dismal failures in life 
which lower so materially our standard of 
national efficiency. 

^ A very interesting experiment in School Management, etc., 
is outlined in Appendix D. 



CHAPTER IV 

HEALTH WEALTH 

Health is the most precious form of wealth. 
It is the worker's stock-in-trade; and it is the 
foundation of happiness and efficiency. But 
while it is so all-important, it would, if it were 
possible, be better not to speak of it or read 
about it, because we cannot speak of it without 
thinking of its opposite — disease. '' Sick- 
talk '' about ailments, disease, and horrors of 
all kinds is a mild form of infectious disease 
itself. Fear and imaginative picturing of 
diseases tend to lay the foundation of those 
diseases and to produce pathophobia, a most 
distressing complaint in itself. That the dis- 
cussion of friends' ailments should rank with 
the weather and the servant question as a 
subject of conversation among women is 
essentially unhealthy, tends to produce the 
malade imaginaire, and fills the air with a 
sort of mental miasma. People who will 
needlessly talk about morbid horrors should 
be quarantined. 



40 BETTERMENT 

But, unfortunately, we are suffering from 
maladjustment to our environment. The rapid 
advance of civilisation, or artificilisation, has 
changed all the conditions of our life; but we 
have not yet sufficiently adapted ourselves to 
those changes, and the physiological changes 
in the human body are not keeping pace with 
the changed and changing conditions. As 
these maladjustments affect both health and 
efficiency, it is necessary to discuss these 
problems, to discover the best solutions yet 
attained, and to reduce the results to the 
simplest possible rules. We should fix our 
attention on the three important points only. 

A Triad of Essentials 

Pure air, right nutrition, and all-round 
exercise will give us all the health and effi- 
ciency obtainable in a world where we are so 
much at the mercy of others, many of whom 
are dominated by old-world ignorance and 
prejudices or are blinded by one-man fads 
which fill their whole horizon. In the matter 
of fresh air we are especially at the mercy of 
others, and of circumstances over which we 
have little or no control. The ignorance of 
the paramount importance of fresh air, and 



BETTERMENT 41 

the superstitious prejudice against its free 
admission into over-crowded rooms and cars, 
are responsible for more deaths than all the 
wars. I am afraid to quote the figures given 
me by experts as to the wide spread of 
consumptive troubles, tuberculosis, and other 
lung disorders, as doctors' statements are apt 
to be unduly alarming, in order to scare peo- 
ple into the right path. There are strong 
grounds for believing that the fiend influenza 
owes its existence to the breathing of vitiated 
air. 

Hots or Colds? 

I have put the question in this odd form to 
fix it in the memory. The terms " colds " 
and *' chills,'' while covering some physio- 
logical truth, carry the most deadly connota- 
tions. What 's in a name ? it is asked. Disease 
and death are in a name, and there are very 
few families who have not to mourn desolat- 
ing gaps in otherwise happy circles owing to 
the fatal misconceptions clustering round the 
words " colds " and *' chills." These terms, 
used to denote catarrh and other troubles, 
suggest an origin of these distressing things 
which mislead nervous folk to their doom, and 
lead them to commit lingering suicide under 



42 BETTERMENT 

the impression that they are taking care of 
themselves. 

It is thought that a change from a warm 
temperature to a cooler one gives ** cold " ; yet 
in Turkish baths, recommended for invalids, 
a man may endure a temperature that would 
cook a steak, and then, to prevent his taking 
cold, he is ordered to plunge into cold water 
or to take the more startling shivery shower- 
bath! This change is as extreme as any that 
could be devised, and it is undergone by the 
doctor's orders. This indicates that change of 
temperature tends to prevent colds rather than 
to cause them. Yet we see people coming out 
of hot rooms muffling to the eyes to keep up 
the temperature, and exclude as far as possible 
God's breath of life — fresh air. People re- 
main contentedly in hot and stuffy rooms that 
are veritable poison-baths. Their vitality gets 
lowered ; they go out into the life-giving fresh 
air, and they take a " chill '' that leads to end- 
less trouble. They have taken "cold," and 
the fresh air is blamed, and the fact that they 
had been inhaling poison for hours is ignored 
or unsuspected. They have been put on the 
wrong track by that fateful word " colds." 
Now, if these complaints were called hots, 
calids, calors, scoria, or hot-air poisoning, or 



BETTERMENT 43 

by some more suitable name, people would be 
put on their guard against the real cause of 
the mischief. 

I was a fresh-air worshipper, or faddist, if 
you will, many years before the medical men 
awoke to the fact that in fresh air we have a 
real cure, perhaps the only one, for consump- 
tion. At the health resorts in the old days 
it was pitiful to see poor misguided creatures, 
practically under sentence of death through 
ignorance, rushing like maniacs to shut win- 
dows that some angel of light had opened. I 
have seen this madness on the Riviera, where 
consumptives turned hotels into sets of lethal 
chambers in which they slowly committed 
suicide, and, with the best intentions in the 
world, tried to suffocate the more sensible in- 
mates. In vain did I point out the suicidal 
nature of their actions ; they only regarded me 
with contemptuous amazement, and told me 
that it was only a fad of mine. Regard- 
less of my warnings, they kept themselves in 
just the condition of stagnant air that the 
hostile microbes most highly approve, and in 
which they increase and multiply (and replen- 
ish the graveyards) with the most deadly 
fecundity. 
. Consumptives are not the only persons who 



44 BETTERMENT 

create, voluntarily or involuntarily, these terri- 
ble lethal chambers, in which they too often 
qualify for joining the under-sentence-of -death 
fraternity. People who have to journey to 
and from cities by rail during the business 
crush have generally to travel in deadly poison- 
baths. The cars are crowded to suffocation, 
and there is nothing to breathe but fetid dust- 
and-sulphur-laden air respired from many 
doubtful pairs of lungs. Any attempt to open 
the windows, in cold weather at least, is apt 
to be met by vigorous protest from some 
health-ignorant person who is unconsciously 
bent on suicide. In the smoking-rooms or cars 
matters are often worse; men are content to 
sit breathing smoke-thickened air just exhaled 
from another's mouth. It is claimed that the 
smoke kills the microbes; that it does not kill 
the smokers too shows the immense powers 
of resistance and adaptability of the human 
constitution. 

It is shameful that English railway carriages 
should be so badly ventilated that one can, as 
a rule, have air only at the expense of a cut- 
ting draught, dust, dirt, ashes, soot, or cinders. 
In America the cars are better, but everywhere, 
in this respect, there is plenty of room for 
improvement. 



BETTERMENT 46 

The Breath of Life 

Fresh air is the veritable breath of Hfe ; and 
there is profound significance in the words 
of the old book, that man was dust until the 
breath of life was breathed into his nostrils 
and he became a living soul. We are told by 
occultists and the Yoga philosophers that the 
air is a storehouse of spiritual forces, as much 
higher than our ordinary power-plant as elec- 
trical works are above treadmills. This may 
seem too fanciful; but there is no doubt in 
the minds of the initiated, or up-to-date phi- 
losophers, that all the wondrous discoveries of 
physical science, almost blinding in their bril- 
liance, have, or will have, their exact counter- 
part in discoveries in the mental and spiritual 
regions, in the marvellous healing and life- 
giving powers and potencies of that inex- 
haustible " power-station " — the human soul. 

Be this as it may, the value of deep breathing, 
which I have preached and practised for the 
last thirty-five years, is now generally recog- 
nised, and is taught by all physical trainers 
that are worthy of the name. Drink deeply 
only of the breath of life. It is the one thing 
of which we cannot have too much. 

" Shut your mouth and save your life " 



46 BETTERMENT 

conveys a useful hint when practising deep 
breathing. Breathe through the nostrils as 
much as possible. They are the air filters 
which purify the air, and raise it to a suitable 
temperature for the lungs. When panting 
after vigorous exertions, the mouth and throat 
are sufficiently heated to raise the air to the 
needed temperature before it reaches the lungs ; 
but the right rule is to breathe as much as pos- 
sible through the nose and as little as possible 
through the mouth. 

Physical trainers teach various methods of 
deep breathing, some of them recommending 
certain movements of the arms and shoulders 
to assist the action of the chest. But there is 
not the slightest need to make an elaborate proc- 
ess of it. We need simple exercises, that can 
be practised at any time and in any place. All 
that is necessary is to throw the head well back 
and up, the chest well out, and the shoulders 
back, with a braced-up feeling as if you were 
going to walk on air. Then by drawing in the 
breath slowly through the nostrils you must try 
to fill those seven hundred million air cells of 
which the lungs are made up. It will soon be 
found that in ordinary breathing only about 
one-third of the lungs are used, leaving two- 
thirds of the cells unventilated, and part of the 



BETTERMENT 47 

blood unoxygenised and unpurified. This pre- 
disposes the unventilated parts of the lungs to 
disease, and leaves part of the blood unpurified 
and to that extent poisoned. This has a debili- 
tating effect on the whole system. It will be 
found as a rule that consumptive people have 
pinched and narrow nostrils. Mr. Eustace 
Miles says : " It stands to reason that the nose- 
openings must be large and free ; hence opera- 
tions may be advisable in certain cases. They 
are very common in New York and London 
and elsewhere. There must be thousands who 
would be suffocated if you closed up their 
mouth and one nostril (the right is usually the 
freer) ." * Checkley, in his " Methods of Physi- 
cal Culture," says : "Take long breaths as often 
as you think of it. You may iiot think of it 
more than once or twice at the beginning. 
Then you will find it easy to remember every 
hour or so, and then twice or three times every 
hour, until finally the habit is formed, and the 
old, short, scant breath — a mere gasp in many 
people — is entirely abandoned. A long breath 
will be found to represent strength that en- 
dures. In all lung exercises endeavour to 
inflate the lungs upwards and outwards instead 

^ Avenues to Health : Swan Sonnenschein & Co., London ; 
E. P. Dutton & Co., New York. 



48 BETTERMENT 

of downwards. Carry chest and lungs as if 
the inflation were about to lift the body off the 
ground upward.'^ 

Another authority says : " Life depends upon 
oxygen, and must have it. Refuse it, or stay 
in a room where the dead air is not changed, 
and the blood stagnates. The heart acts slowly ; 
the impulse of digestion is withdrawn, and the 
food may ferment in the stomach or pass 
through unused ; the blood clogs the brain and 
the head begins to ache; the dead tissues 
throughout the body, instead of being carried 
off by the exhalations, are collected in every 
nook and corner, where they become a fertile 
soil in which disease thrives. Oxygen is the 
first, foremost, greatest, and most active element 
that can be taken into the system; no other 
matter can equal it in importance, whether it 
is found in what we eat, drink, or breathe. 
Fresh air that has been vitalised by the sun, 
that is, air on which the sun has shone, is the 
quickest and surest destroyer of germs of 
disease in the system." 

It would be difficult to overrate the supreme 
value of fresh air. In it we have an exhaust- 
less store of vitality, health, and energy always 
at our service. Regard stagnant air as you 
would stagnant water for drinking purposes, 



BETTERMENT 49 

and as equally deadly. Regard shut-up rooms 
as lethal chambers or poison-baths, in which 
one commits slow suicide, — in which we lay 
the foundations of consumption, influenza, and 
a host of other troubles. 

It is significant that the indrawing of the 
breath and inspiration are covered by the same 
word ; there is a close connection between them, 
and we shall be wise to drink deeply from the 
ever-flowing fount. 



CHAPTER V 

THE GOLDEN RULES OF RIGHT NUTRITION 

It is in the matter of eating that we suffer 
most from our maladjustment to the changed 
and changing conditions. The character of our 
food has altered considerably, and has made 
possible certain bad habits which have serious 
physiological consequences. Instead of having 
food in a crude form, which necessitates grind- 
ing in the best of all mills, — the teeth, — and 
preparation in the best of all laboratories, — the 
mouth, — with its complex chemical solutions, 
we have it fined and refined until, as Dr. Harry 
Campbell tells us, we are living in an " Age 
of Pap." ^ So our nourishment, instead of 
being passed through Nature's own milling, 
and through the ordained chemical prepara- 
tion in the mouth, is bolted or forcibly swal- 
lowed after the smallest amount of perfunctory 
mastication. This not only deprives us of the 

1 Professor Symes-Thompson recently indorsed this state- 
ment, in his lecture on *' The Teeth in Disease," and urged the 
necessity of thorough mastication to check the tendency 
towards a race of toothless men. 



BETTERMENT 61 

most refined epicurean pleasures that the sense 
of taste can bestow, but it also causes manifold 
internal troubles, and creates the direst of all 
purgatories — that of the dyspeptics — with its 
attendant torture-fiends. To make matters 
worse, the high and increasing speed of the 
strenuous life compels men to rush their eat- 
ing at auto-car speed, while their minds are 
racked by business worries or excitements, 
which use up the vital energy needed for the 
most important of functions, — that of rightly 
nourishing the body. 

Then, again, a host of stimulants coarsen 
and " sharpen with cloyless sauce the appe- 
tite " ; the monitors and guides which Nature 
has provided are dulled into insensibility, and 
we are left to the mercies of ignorance or to 
doctors, who have missed the natural cue in 
this complex matter and are more interested 
in prescribing remunerative cures than in find- 
ing preventives. 

It was reserved for a layman to pick up the 
missing cue, and he, with rare insight into the 
necessities of the case, at once set to work to 
interest the scientific men. By inducing them 
to experiment, he won their imprimatur in a 
very few years, — fewer than would be thought 
possible when we remember the dead weight 



52 BETTERMENT 

of orthodoxy and high respectability they must 
drag after them. The starting point — the 
value of mastication — was known to medical 
men years ago theoretically, but its extreme 
importance, nay, its imperative necessity, was 
not fully realised until Mr. Horace Fletcher's 
discoveries brought it home to them. As I 
heard one distinguished physician say, he had 
been preaching it all his life, but had never 
practised it until Mr. Fletcher's experience 
brought it home to him. Now he is an indus- 
trious " Fletcheriser " and generously owns his 
obligations. 

Fletcherism 

Personally, I am not eager to add to the 
number of " isms," but this one abolishes or 
supersedes so many others, and sweeps away 
so many hampering prescriptions and self- 
denying ordinances, that it ought to be wel- 
comed. 

Mr. Horace Fletcher was a great athlete in 
his youth, and being of a roving disposition 
he has faced life in many forms and in many 
lands. He has done nearly everything, from 
teaching snap-shooting to Marshal Oyama and 
commanding a lorcha in China seas, to filling 
the role of amateur opera director, of in- 



BETTERMENT 63 

ventor and manufacturer, of merchant, and 
even of art critic. This vast and varied mass 
of lived knowledge forms the best of all back- 
grounds for the fruitful studies which he has 
made his specialty. Fortune having finally 
smiled on his multifarious undertakings, he 
found himself in middle life the master of a 
competency and in command of those lux- 
uries of life, such as a glorious library and 
works of art, which figure in the pictured 
paradise of a man of culture. But having at- 
tained these objects of his ambition, he also 
found himself quite unable to enjoy them. He 
was uncomfortably obese, scant of breath, and 
with such a complication of internal complaints 
that he was denied life insurance. Physicians 
at the various " Cures '* in Europe having 
failed to cure him, he took the matter into his 
own hands, and worked out his own salvation. 
So completely did he succeed that four years 
later he was accepted as a first-class "life" by 
three different insurance offices. 

He discovered by chance that he could ob- 
tain an unusually good morning's work (writ- 
ing) out of himself without any breakfast, and 
feel all the better without it ; this gave him his 
first hint. In Gladstone's dictum : " Chew 
every morsel of food at least thirty-two times," 



64 BETTERMENT 

he found his second hint. From Professor 
Fenollosa, the great " Japantheist/' he ob- 
tained his third hint, in a lesson from the 
Samurai or Bushido discipline. In order to 
attain the heights of self-control of his Japan- 
ese friends, he was told that he must " get rid 
of anger and worry." The quite unexpected 
idea that anger and worry could be eradicated 
like other bad habits came as a revelation to 
Mr. Fletcher, and it started a train of thought 
richly fruitful in results. 

These three germ-thoughts, — the value of 
abstinence from food until a true appetite had 
been earned, thorough mastication, and the 
banishment of anger and worry, — fell on pre- 
pared soil, and the fruitage has been rich 
beyond all expectations. 

Mastication and the Elixir of Life 

The importance of mastication has long been 
known to physicians, but in an indefinite, 
merely theoretical way. It was not until Mr. 
Fletcher had pushed it to its limits, and had 
made some remarkable discoveries in connec- 
tion with it, that its vital importance was 
realised. His teachings, or, as he modestly 
calls them, his "findings," as gathered from 



BETTERMENT 65 

his works, " The A. B.-Z. of Our Own Nutri- 
tion," and "The New Glutton or Epicure";^ 
from his later lectures in America (not yet 
published), and from numerous personal dis- 
cussions with him, may be thus summarised: 
No food should be taken unless a keen appe- 
tite for it is present. Every morsel should be 
so thoroughly masticated that it is sucked back 
into the throat by a selective mechanism, which 
has recently been described by Dr. Higgins, 
and is caught up by an involuntary swallow- 
ing impulse, which is quite automatic. Any 
forced swallowing, or gulping, or strained 
action, as in swallowing a pill, is wrong. Not 
only should solids be thus chewed, but all 
liquids having taste, and therefore having 
something in them to be digested, should be 
treated in similar fashion. That is, every 
liquid, except pure water, should be sipped and 
tasted in the mouth as a tea- or wine-taster 
does. This mechanical action is necessary for 
the thorough chemical preparation of the food, 
liquid or solid, — for the vital process of di- 



1 These works are published by the Frederick A. Stokes 
Company, New York. They may be obtained in London, 
pending the issue of an English edition, from Messrs. B. F. 
Stevens & Brown, 4 Trafalgar Square ; or from Messrs. L. N. 
Fowler & Co., 7 Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus, E. C. 



56 BETTERMENT 

gestion on which the health of body and of 
mind both depend. 

The saliva is a veritable Elixir of Life, and 
the thorough insalivation (mixing with saliva) 
of all foods is the first step in the process of 
healthy digestion. If this is neglected, endless 
internal troubles may result. 

According to the accepted chemico-physio- 
logical theories, the starch in grains, vegetables, 
and foods generally, cannot be digested unless 
it is first turned into sugar, or dextrine, either 
in the mouth or in the small intestines. When 
food cannot be digested easily it sets up fer- 
mentation, and has to be reduced by the putre- 
factive action of bacteria. This action gives 
rise to poisonous products, which are absorbed 
and which circulate through the body, creating 
generally a mild, but always an actual, form 
of blood-poisoning. This is always a menace, 
and will get us down whenever our powers of 
resistance are sufficiently below par; it will 
attack the physically weakest organs, or will 
produce the disease most dreaded or fear- 
pictured most clearly in the mind. The mental 
factor is potent both for causing and curing 
disease.^ The neglect of buccal preparation or 

I See Dr. Schofield's The Mental Factor in Disease. 



BETTERMENT 67 

" mouth-thoroughness," complete mastication 
and insaHvation, carries other fateful conse- 
quences. It throws more work on the supple- 
mentary digestive apparatus of the intestines, 
and is apt to cause a painful and irritating 
form of intestinal indigestion, which is a fruit- 
ful cause of sleeplessness, — one of the most 
wearing of all troubles. 

" Three Inches of Physiology "/ 

In a recent visit to America Mr. Fletcher 
gave some lectures under the above heading 
to the medical students at the Battle Creek 
Sanitarium and elsewhere.^ In these he con- 
tended with great cogency that Nature never 
throws responsibility on us to which we are 
not equal. She does not ask us to know all 
the workings of her mysterious inner labor- 

1 During a later visit Mr. Fletcher found that the appreci- 
ation of his efforts to establish the Optimum in Nutrition had 
increased very greatly among scientific men and the educa- 
tional authorities ; and he was invited to lecture on his dis- 
coveries at Groton and St. Mark's (the Eton and Harrow of 
America), and at Harvard and Yale (the Oxford and Cam- 
bridge of American universities). The dentists, osteopaths, 
metaphysicians, women's colleges and clubs, and an associa- 
tion of students earning their way through the University, — 
all demanded his services. He has thus rapidly advanced to 
the position of one of the great authorities on Economic 
Nutrition. 



68 BETTERMENT 

atories of the body; she asks us to know only 
the three inches of physiology easily within 
our ken, the tract from the teeth to the swal- 
lowing apparatus at the back of the mouth. 
Our responsibility begins and ends there. If 
we do our duty with the mouth-preparation of 
the food, read appetite intelligently, and there- 
fore give her the right kind and the right 
quantity, Nature will do all the rest properly 
and give no further trouble. If the food is 
right in kind and in quantity, the results will 
be manifest both physically and mentally, and 
we shall have an exhilarating sense of well- 
being. 

Among the most remarkable discoveries 
which have grown out of Mr. Fletcher's 
thoroughness of mastication is that food so 
prepared is nearly all assimilated, and that from 
one-third to one-half the quantity given by 
Voit and other standard authorities as neces- 
sary, suffices, and gives the best results. This, 
as I shall show later, is proved by Professor 
Chittenden conclusively. 

Mr. Fletcher has further shown, by means 
of a new description of the mouth functions 
given by Dr. Hubert Higgins, that during 
mastication the circumvallate papillae with their 
surrounding taste buds, or bulbs, — little post- 



BETTERMENT 69 

like projections at the back of the tongue, — 
are pressed tightly against the roof of the 
mouth, effectually preventing anything being 
swallowed until it has been sufficiently masti- 
cated. Then these sentinels relax and the pre- 
pared food is allowed to pass, and is swallowed 
by an involuntary impulse. This is our natural 
protection, as the tougher parts, not yet suffi- 
ciently reduced or chemically changed, are re- 
turned to the front of the mouth for further 
preparation. But in our ignorance of this little 
bit of physiology, and in our greed or hurry, 
we disregard these sentinels, and the food is 
forced past them by a voluntary act of swallow- 
ing, such as we make use of when taking a 
pill. This act does violence to the delicate 
mechanism, and forces unprepared substances 
into the stomach, thus leading to all sorts of 
trouble, and in some cases to appendicitis. In- 
deed, as I shall show later, there are strong 
grounds for believing that nearly all the 
troubles which do not arise from causes con- 
sidered in the previous chapter are traceable 
to inadequate mastication and overloading of 
the digestive organs. 

M. Solvay, who entertained the recent In- 
ternational Congress of Physiologists in such 
a princely fashion in Brussels, and who has 



60 BETTERMENT 

founded a Sociological and Business Institute 
on a physiological foundation, was greatly in- 
terested in Mr. Fletcher's discoveries, and with 
characteristic sagacity at once sent to Paris 
to get the latest scientific pronouncement on 
the subject of mastication. He received the 
following important statement, which he read 
to Mr. Fletcher and myself, and of which I 
append a translation, taken from " Modern 
Medicine." It is somewhat technical, and may 
be skipped by the unscientific reader. 

" The Quadruple Importance of Mastication 
for Gastric Digestion 

" M. Dastre, Professor at the Sorbonne, 
Paris, communicates the following succinct 
statement, which may be regarded as the latest 
word of science concerning the relation of 
mastication to gastric digestion: 

" I. Mechanical. A division of food stuffs 
into small fragments. The gastric juice pene- 
trates cubes of cooked albumen at the rate 
of about one millimetre per hour. (Herzen, 
Comptes Rendus de la Societe de Biologic, 
1886.) It is clear that small particles — for 
example, cubes, presenting on each side a sur- 
face of one square millimetre — will be pene- 



BETTERMENT 61 

trated in about one hour, while cubes with 
sides of one square centimetre will be pene- 
trated only at the end of several hours. 

" 2. Physical. The extraction of the food 
substances soluble in water. During mastica- 
tion the saliva dissolves those alimentary sub- 
stances which are soluble in water or in a 
neutral or alkaline or aqueous liquid; but 
most of these substances act as pepsinogens 
(Schiff) or " succagogues " (Pawlow). The 
more prolonged the mastication the greater 
will be the quantity of saliva secreted, because 
of the extraction from the food stuffs of pep- 
sinogens and succagogues to the great benefit 
of gastric digestion. Thus, an increased quan- 
tity of gastric juice containing a greater 
quantity of pepsin is produced. 

" 3. Chemical. The saliva transforms 
alimentary starches into dextrine and sugar. 
Dextrine is one of the most powerful of pep- 
sinogens; if one chews insufficiently, but little 
dextrine is produced, for the ptyaline ceases 
to act in an acid medium such as the gastric 
juice. It is true that the pancreatic juice takes 
up anew the digestion of starches, but the 
dextrine absorbed by the small intestine is 
without pepsiogenic properties. It must be 
absorbed by the stomach. It is necessary, then, 



62 BETTERMENT 

that mastication should be prolonged in order 
to produce dextrine in large amount. 

" 4. Secretory. Pawlow has proved that 
the gastric mucous membrane is innervated, 
from the secretory point of view, by the pnu- 
mogastric and the sympathetic reactions. The 
first is the centrifugal path of the cerebro-gastric 
reflex. The point of departure for this reflex 
may be either subjective (psychic reflex) or 
sensory (sensorio-reflex). It may be produced 
by visual and auditive sensations, but it is 
especially excited by olfactory and gustatory 
sensations under the influence of which the 
gastric juice flows abundantly. The mastica- 
tion of a sapid substance intensifies gustatory 
sensations and consequently reinforces the 
sensorio-gastric reflex. 

" These different phenomena are intimately 
related to one another. The more one chews, 
the more freely the saliva flows. The more 
saliva, the larger the amount of pepsinogens and 
succagogue substances brought into solution; 
and at the same time the gustatory sensations, 
which are the point of departure of the gastric 
secretory reflex, are prolonged and reinforced. 
To be thoroughly persuaded of the importance 
of these phenomena for the later stages of di- 
gestion, it is well to read first, Herzen : * La 



BETTERMENT 63 

digestion stomacale/ and secondly, Mad. Pota- 
pow ('Thesede/ Lausanne). In these two 
publications is found a brief and lucid resume 
of the principal works of Schifif and Pawlow 
completed by the observations of the two 
authors mentioned." 

Mastication and Beauty 

The relation of mastication to beauty is not 
apparent at the first glance, but Dr. Harry 
Campbell, F.R.C.P. (London), in some remark- 
able articles in the London Lancet,^ shows 
that they have a very close connection indeed. 
If the teeth are given plenty of work in chew- 
ing, the jaws and all adjacent parts are healthy 
and fully developed. When mastication is 
neglected during the growing period, the jaws 
do not reach their full size, the teeth are 
crowded and irregular, and the beauty of the 
lower part of the face is marred. The teeth 
lose their attractiveness, and decay, drop out, 
or have to be pulled out. Not only is the 
beauty of the teeth spoiled, but their health is 
destroyed, and toothache and much of the so- 
called neuralgia result. 

1 Observations on Mastication, by Harry Campbell, M.D., 
F.R.C.P., TAe Lanceiy July ir, i8, 25, and August 8, 1903. 
These articles were inspired by Mr. Fletcher's discoveries, and 
are given in full in his A. B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition. 



64 BETTERMENT 

Dr. Campbell attributes a lengthy catalogue 
of diseases to insufficient mastication. He 
quotes Sir Frederick Treves and other author- 
ities to show that appendicitis is due to bolt- 
ing of food; and he thinks that cancer is 
attributable to the same cause. He says : " I 
do not propose to discuss here in detail how 
food is capable of causing appendicitis, but 
will merely refer to one of the ways in which 
it may do so. I had already come to the con- 
clusion that the habit of bolting food is a 
potent cause, when I read Sir Frederick Treves' 
Cavendish Lecture in which he makes that 
contention. Sir Frederick Treves points out 
that in this rushing age people, especially busi- 
ness men, are apt to hurry over their meals 
and to take them at irregular times and often 
while standing at a bar; even when there is 
more leisure, food is rarely masticated nowa- 
days in the same thorough way that it was 
in the old time, when it was of a coarser 
nature; hence solid lumps, especially in the 
case of such articles as pineapple, preserved 
ginger, nuts, tough meat, and lobster, are apt 
to pass beyond the pylorus and, escaping in- 
testinal digestion, to lodge in the caecum and 
precipitate an attack of appendicitis, the 
most common predisposing cause of which 



n 



BETTERMENT 65 



is a loaded caecum, often preceded by con- 
stipation." 

Dr. Campbell says that there are strong 
grounds for believing that cancer is attrib- 
utable to the same cause, and that mastication 
is becoming a lost art. As mastication is es- 
pecially necessary for children, he gives some 
rules that may be useful : 

" The child should make his first acquaint- 
ance with starch (cereals and other starchy 
foods), not in the form of a liquid or pappy 
patent food, but in a solid and somewhat tough 
form. . . . Hard, well-baked crusts constitute 
a convenient form in which to administer starch 
to children. A piece of crust may be put in 
the oven and re-baked; this not only hardens 
it, but helps to convert the starch into dex- 
trine, which is a stage on the road to maltose. 
If the crust be then cut into a suitable shape 
and spread with bacon fat or fresh butter, it 
constitutes a most agreeable morsel. Later, 
we may give hard plain biscuits. The same 
principle should be acted upon during later 
childhood and youth: we should always give, 
as far as possible, the starch in a form com- 
pelling abundant mastication. Loaves should 
be shaped so as to give a maximum of crust 
and a minimum of crumb, and should be baked 



66 BETTERMENT 

hard. Such loaves are quite as nutritious as 
the ordinary ones, and much more digestible, 
containing as they do an abundance of dex- 
trine and a little maltose, and compelling effi- 
cient mastication, especially if eaten, as they 
should be, without any fluid." 

Some object to prolonged mastication, urg- 
ing that it makes them feel sick, and that they 
feel inclined to put the food away rather than 
swallow it. Dr. Van Someren, who was the 
first to bring this subject before the British 
Medical Association, meets the objection con- 
clusively. He points out that whenever chew- 
ing produces any feeling of nausea it is a sign 
that either the food is not needed by the body 
or that it contains a harmful element. The 
initial advantage of subjecting foodstuffs to 
prolonged contact with the end organs of the 
nerves of taste is to insure the swallowing 
of only those food elements that the body re- 
quires, and to create a disgust for those which 
are unnecessary or harmful. Whenever the 
body requires food, a conclusive sign of such 
requirement is that the food becomes sweeter 
and more delicious the longer it is masticated. 
This process of converting the starchy foods 
into sugar in the mouth gives an exquisite- 
ness of flavour that comes as a surprise even 



BETTERMENT 67 

to the epicure. A hard crust properly eaten 
becomes delicious. 

It is a very strong point of Mr. Fletcher's 
system that while he would deprive one of the 
coarser pleasure (if indeed it be a pleasure) 
of gobbling or bolting food, or of gulping 
liquids full of delicious taste if properly sipped, 
he would substitute for it the most refined 
epicurean pleasure. Indeed, it may safely be 
said that a man does not know the delights 
which taste and eating can bestow until he has 
tried " Fletcherising " both his food and his 
beverages. The whole moral of Mr. Fletcher's 
admirable work, " The New Glutton or Epi- 
cure," is to show that by giving up coarse 
pleasures unintelligently indulged, which bring 
more or less discomfort, disease, and doctors' 
bills, one may have the most refined of pleas- 
ures, that will give health, efficiency, and a 
new joy in life. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE QUESTION OF QUANTITY! THE 
MINIMUM THE OPTIMUM 

It is in the solving of this problem of " How 
much should be eaten ? '' that Mr. Fletcher's 
discoveries are having the most far-reaching 
effects. On this question the authorities were 
formerly utterly at sea, but his demonstrations 
have put the physiological chemists on the right 
track, and momentous results have already been 
achieved. 

This raises an interesting point which I had 
better touch on before I go further, as my own 
entree into the discussion of these hygienic 
questions is similarly involved. It is said that 
amateur astronomers discover most new stars, 
the explanation being that the professionals are 
so much engaged in routine work that they 
have little time for roving expeditions into 
unknown space. The amateur, on the other 
hand, has plenty of time for what may often 
be idle star-gazing, and in this way he hits upon 
valuable discoveries. The case with physicians 
seems to be similar; they are so busy with 



BETTERMENT 69 

orthodox work and are so blinded by tradi- 
tions that it has been left for a layman, under 
the stress of personal danger and emergency, 
to make, and to lead others to, some of the 
most valuable discoveries that have yet been 
made in this direction. Lest this may seem 
too much like a layman's prejudiced estimate 
of a layman's work, I shall quote the words 
of physicians who have made great discoveries 
themselves in unexpected fields within their 
own profession, and who are therefore more 
intent on getting at the truth than in ask- 
ing the professional status of the man who 
discovered it. 

Dr. Hubert Higgins, M.A. Cantab., M.R.C.S., 
L.R.C.P., who has himself received great 
benefit from Mr. Fletcher's suggestions, says: 
" The phenomena that have resulted from 
the more thorough insalivation and masti- 
cation of food can only be described as re- 
markable and of the highest importance 
for the progress of that most important 
of all sciences, the right conduct of life. 
... A method having the results that this 
has, it need scarcely be said, is revolution- 
ary; all one's preconceived notions of the 
conduct of life are found to be open to grave 
criticism." 



70 BETTERMENT 

Dr. Edward Hooker Dewey, of " The No- 
Breakfast Plan'' and "The Fasting Cure/' 
which have produced such wonderful results 
and have opened up a most promising field of 
research, says : ** In the line of dietary form, 
Mr. Fletcher has done better work than the 
entire medical profession has done from the 
dawn of history. The matter of thorough 
mastication, as unfolded and insisted on by 
Horace Fletcher, is the greatest practical 
physiology that a dyspeptic, gluttonous world 
has ever received. The discovery of the im- 
portance of mouth work, in saving the strain 
of overwork in the stomach and in the intes- 
tines, will do more to prevent disease than all 
other precautions. This is all the more won- 
derful when it is considered that Mr. Fletcher 
is a layman.'' 

Dr. J. H. Kellogg, of the great Battle Creek 
Sanitarium, who is a host in himself and is 
doing splendid work in the world, is equally 
emphatic in his commendation of Mr. Fletcher's 
work. He says : " I am confident you have dis- 
covered a great and important principle, and I 
shall watch future developments with interest. 
... I want to give the widest possible publicity 
to your work. I find great good in it. I am 
talking to my patients continually about it. . . . 



BETTERMENT 71 

I know from my own experience that you are 
right. ... I think your chewing reform is of 
more importance to the world than you realise. 
. , . You deserve to have your name im- 
mortalised, as Pasteur's has been.'' ^ This 
generous recognition from so distinguished 
a practitioner shows the large-mindedness of 
the man, and gives additional weight to his 
words. 

These were among the earlier recognitions; 
since then Mr. Fletcher has been winning 
scientific indorsement on all sides. Thus, he 
has shown that a layman can not only make 
some of the most valuable discoveries, but can 
also, by study, intellectual eclecticism, and 
American business methods of getting at " the 
bottom of things," extract all that is best even 
from medical knowledge, and avoid the hoary 
errors which still handicap so many medical 
men. We must remember, too, the vast differ- 
ence between medicine and surgery. The 
latter is a science, while the former is a self- 
discredited art for some of the first principles 
of which the " profession " are still groping. 
For a layman to interfere in surgery might be 

1 Quoted in The New Glutton or Epicure, by Horace 
Fletcher. A. B. C. Life Series. Frederick A. Stokes Com- 
pany, New York. 



72 BETTERMENT 

criminal, — although a Boston lawyer has per- 
fected a mechanical device for correcting con- 
genital dislocation of hip joints, for use on his 
own afflicted children, whom the great Vien- 
nese surgeon Lorenz dared not operate upon, 
and the lawyer's device, which performed the 
cure completely, has been scientifically accepted. 
But in medicine, where the case is quite dif- 
ferent, the proverbially differing doctors have 
given the layman a footing. And when the 
layman leads us back to nature, guided only 
by natural clues, he is likely to be a truer guide 
than some of the old-fashioned practitioners 
who are blinded by learned ignorance. 

The Minimum the Optimum 

As I said prior to this digression, it is on 
the question of the right quantity of food that 
the authorities have erred most seriously, as 
shown by recent exhaustive examination of 
the subject. This has been proved conclu- 
sively by Professor Chittenden's experiments, 
to which I shall presently refer. 

The standards of the amount of food needed 
to produce the best physiological results, given 
by the highest authorities on dietetics, have 
been arrived at by observing what men habit- 



BETTERMENT 78 

ually eat rather than by scientific experiment- 
ing to determine their real needs. As soon as 
these standards are put to the test they are 
found to be faulty and gravely misleading. 
The few figures I am about to give will afford 
but little positive knowledge to the general 
reader; but their comparative values will be 
apparent at a glance. 

To make the figures more easily understood 
it might be well to explain that the term " pro- 
teid " means the albuminous elements in food 
absolutely necessary to support life. Proteid 
builds up the tissues, repairs waste, and also 
provides some heat if it is lacking from other 
sources. The fats and carbohydrates, which 
make the great bulk of the foods, are little 
more than fuel for keeping up the heat of the 
body. This bit of technical knowledge is 
necessary in order to understand the impor- 
tance of recent experiments. But the great 
merit of Mr. Fletcher's system is that it is 
quite unnecessary to trouble one's self about 
dietary details. He has discovered safer 
guides than any half-knowledge we at pres- 
ent possess; and the standards of economy 
established by him through the guidance of 
natural instincts form the basis of later scien- 
tific inquiries. 



7* BETTERMENT 

Proteid in varying proportions is found in 
all foods. According to Dr. Hutchison, there 
is most of it in cheese, and it diminishes in 
order in the following foods: pulses (peas and 
beans), nuts, meat, eggs, and grains. There 
is a fair amount in bread and other grain prod- 
ucts, and very little in fruit and many of the 
vegetables. But all these foods contain other 
elements of value, such as mineral salts; and 
the golden rule is to vary your food within 
the range of appetite so as to allow Nature 
to select what she needs. 

Suffering from dyspepsia, I once went to 
a distinguished physician. He was too wise 
to give me drugs, but prescribed a strict course 
of dieting. This I followed for a time with 
great benefit. But as I soon fell back and 
became gradually worse, I changed advisers 
and went to Sir Andrew Clark. He diagnosed 
the case as the other had done, but he put me 
on a dietary regimen as different as possible 
from that prescribed by the other. What one 
told me to take, the other told me to avoid! 
I tried the new system with like results; 
for a time I became better, then worse. I 
came finally to the conclusion that change 
of diet was beneficial, and that monotony 
was to be avoided; and subsequent experi- 



BETTERMENT 76 

ence has proved that I was right. Variety 
is essential, — not necessarily at one meal or 
in one day; but from day to day, and week 
to week, or, more likely, from season to sea- 
son, sufficient change should be made to give 
that greatest of all physiological chemists — 
Nature — a chance to select the elements 
really needed for keeping the body in its best 
condition. 

As I have already said, the question of 
prescribed quantity is of secondary importance 
because thorough mastication limits the quan- 
tity that appetite will tolerate to the amount 
actually needed. On this point the authori- 
ties have erred most seriously. According 
to Voit, Atwater, and other credited students 
of dietetics, an average man requires from 
IOC to 150 grams of proteid or albuminous 
food per day. Together with other foods, 
this gives a fuel value of from 2324 to 4500 
calories, — every authority giving a different 
standard between these extremes. Voit's es- 
timate for the average man doing average 
muscular work is 118 grams of proteid, which 
with other foods gives a total fuel value of 
3000 calories, — the happy mean between these 
various standards. 

Mr. Fletcher, while under the observation 



76 BETTERMENT 

of Professor Chittenden, at Yale University, 
maintained his weight on an average of 44.9 
grams of proteid, and 1696 units (calories) 
of heat values. This is about one-third of the 
amount of proteid declared necessary for a 
man of his weight, and about half the amount 
of other food or heat elements. During this 
time Mr. Fletcher, although then in his fifty- 
fourth year, went through all the setting-up 
exercises given to the varsity crew; and he 
performed them not only with ease, but with- 
out any stiffness afterwards. The absence 
of stiffness, even as the result of the use of 
unaccustomed muscles, which is believed by 
physiologists to show an actual poisoning of 
the muscles, is a significant and valuable result 
of " Fletcherising." 

Dr. Van Someren, Mr. Fletcher's able co- 
worker, gives some valuable evidence on this 
point. Although a young man, a practising 
physician and surgeon, he was suffering from 
gout, dyspepsia, and other troubles, until he 
met Mr. Fletcher. With his rapid insight he 
saw the value of the new system, tried it, 
and soon became a new man, with a new 
interest in life; and he gained also one of 
the most valuable of all remedies for his 
patients. He was the first to bring the sub- 



BETTERMENT 77 

ject before the British Medical Association in 
1901 ; and he is now carrying forward in 
practice the further study and use of auto- 
nutrition, which, according to Dr. Edward 
Hooker Dewey, needed only the addition of 
Mr. Fletcher's discovery of the efficiency of 
careful mastication in limiting and digesting 
food to make it one of the most hopeful 
systems at present above the medical hori- 
zon. In his remarkable paper read before 
the Physiological Section of the British Med- 
ical Association, entitled, " Was Luigi Cor- 
naro Right ? " ^ Dr. Van Someren gives 
some of his own experiments dealing with 
the question of the quantity of food. He 
says: 

" The following table contains the resume 
of two experiments in which a state of com- 
plete nutritive equilibrium was maintained by 
individuals of about the same weight, on widely 
different quantities of food similar in quality. 
The subjects of the experiments were a labora- 
tory assistant of Dr. Snyder, of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and the 
writer (Dr. Van Someren). The experiment 
of the former was made primarily to show the 

1 The remarkable evidence of Mr. Edison, the greatest of 
workers and inventors, is given at the end of this chapter. 



78 



BETTERMENT 



relative digestibility of the several articles of 
diet, eggs, milk, and cream: 





Dr. Snyder's Experi- 


Writer's Experi- 




ment 


ment 


Age of subject .... 


22 years 


30 years 


Duration of experiment 


4j days 


5 days 


Number of meals . . . 


'3 


10 


Weight at the beginning 


62.5 kilos 


57.3 kilos 


Weight at end .... 


62.6 kilos 


57.5 kilos 


Potatoes (daily average) 


1587-6 grammes 


1 59.4 grammes 


Eggs (daily average) . 


411.08 grammes 


124.7 grammes 


Milk (daily average) . . 


710C.C. 


710 c.c. 


Cream (daily average) . 


237 c.c. 


237 c.c. 


Daily urine 


1 108 grammes 


1098 grammes 


Daily faeces 


204 


18 



" The daily diet of Dr. Snyder's subject 
consisted of three and one-half pounds of 
potatoes, eight eggs, a pint and a half of milk, 
and half a pint of cream. The writer's (Dr. 
Van Someren's) diet of twelve ounces of solid 
food (like Luigi Cornaro's) consisted of three 
eggs, the remainder of the twelve ounces in 
potatoes, and an equal quantity of similar 
liquid food to that taken by Dr. Snyder's sub- 
ject. The exercise of the laboratory assistant 
comprised his daily routine of laboratory work, 
while that of the writer consisted of six sets 
of tennis, or an hour and a half on horseback, 
with an hour to an hour and a half's walk or 



BETTERMENT 79 

climb daily, in addition to much reading and 
writing." 

These are striking figures, and show that 
Dr. Van Someren, on about one-third of the 
quantity of food, did nearly three times the 
amount of work, and sHghtly increased his. 
weight. Results equally remarkable were ob- 
tained by Professor Chittenden in his valuable 
series of experiments at the Sheffield Scientific 
School, Yale University, which he details with 
such thoroughness in his great work : " Physi- 
ological Economy in Nutrition." ^ He says : 

" The experiments have been conducted with 
three distinct types or classes of individuals: 

" 1st. A group of five men of varying ages, 
connected with the University as professors 
and instructors ; men who, while leading active 
lives, have not engaged in very active muscular 
work. They were selected as representatives 
of the mental worker, although several of them 
in the performance of their daily duties had to 
be on their feet in the laboratory a good portion 
of the day. 

" 2d. A detail of thirteen men, from the 
Hospital Corps of the United States Army, 
and representatives of the moderate worker; 

1 Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York; William 
Heinemann, London. 



80 BETTERMENT 

men who for a period of six months took each 
week day a vigorous amount of systematic 
exercise in the gymnasium, in addition to the 
routine work connected with their daily Hfe 
as members of the United States Hospital 
Corps. These men were of different national- 
ities, ages, and temperaments. 

" 3d. A group of eight young men, stu- 
dents in the University, all thoroughly trained 
athletes, and some of them with exceptional 
records in athletic events." 

Professor Chittenden, realising his respon- 
sibility in the matter, had previously given 
the system a long trial on himself. He had 
previously taken about the amount of food 
prescribed by the authorities. 

" Recognising," he says, " that the habits of 
a lifetime should not be too suddenly changed, 
a gradual reduction was made in the amount 
of proteid or albuminous food taken each day. 
In the writer's case this resulted in the course 
of a month or two in the complete abolition of 
breakfast, except for a small cup of coffee. A 
light lunch was taken at 1.30 p.m., followed 
by a heavier dinner at 6.30 p.m. Occasionally, 
however, the heartier meal was taken at noon- 
time, as the appetite suggested. It should be 
added that the total intake of food was gradu- 



BETTERMENT 81 

ally diminished, as well as the proteid con- 
stituents. There was no change, however, to 
a vegetable diet, but a simple introduction of 
physiological economy. Still, there was and 
is now a distinct tendency toward the exclusion 
of meat in some measure, the appetite not call- 
ing for this form of food in the same degree 
as formerly. At first this change to a smaller 
amount of food daily was attended with some 
discomfort, but this soon passed away, and the 
writer's interest in the subject was augmented 
by the discovery that he was unquestionably 
in improved physical condition. A rheumatic 
trouble in the knee joint, which had persisted 
for a year and a half and which only partially 
responded to treatment, entirely disappeared 
(and has never returned). Minor troubles, 
such as * sick headaches ' and bilious attacks, 
no longer appeared periodically as before. 
There was greater appreciation of such food 
as was eaten; a keener appetite and a more 
acute taste seemed to be developed, with a 
more thorough liking for simple foods. 

" During the summer the simple diet was 
persisted in, — a small cup of coffee for break- 
fast, a fairly substantial dinner at midday, and 
a light supper at night. Two months were 
spent in Maine at a fishing resort, and during 
6 



8« BETTERMENT 

a part of this time a guide was dispensed with 
and the boat rowed by the writer frequently 
six to ten miles in a forenoon, sometimes 
against head winds (without breakfast), and 
with much greater freedom from fatigue and 
muscular soreness than in previous years on 
a full dietary. The test of endurance and fit- 
ness for physical work which the writer thus 
carried out * on an empty stomach ' tended to 
strengthen the opinion that it is a mistake to 
assume the necessity for a hearty meal because 
heavy work is about to be done. It is certainly 
far more rational from a physiological stand- 
point to leave the hearty meal until the day's 
work is accomplished. We seemingly forget 
that the energy of muscular contraction comes 
not from the foodstuffs present at the time in 
the stomach and intestinal tract, but rather 
from the absorbed material stored up in the 
muscles and which was digested and absorbed 
a day or two before. Further, it is to be re- 
membered that the very process of digestion 
draws to the gastro-intestinal tract a large 
supply of blood, and that a large amount of 
energy is needed for the processes of secretion, 
digestion, absorption, and peristalsis, which 
are of necessity incited by the presence of food 
in the stomach and intestine, thereby actually 



BETTERMENT 88 

diminishing the amount of energy available 
at the place where it is most needed. Why, 
then, draw upon the resources of the body just 
at a time, or slightly prior to the time, when 
the work we desire to perform, either muscular 
or mental, calls for a copious blood supply 
in muscle or brain, and when all available 
energy is needed for the task that is to be 
accomplished ? '' ^ 

This is an important point, and Professor 
Chittenden gives weighty reasons for begin- 
ning the day's work without food. He found 
by his experiments on himself that he obtained 
the best results on about one-third of the 
amount of food, especially proteid (meat or 
albuminous foods), given as necessary by the 
accepted standards. He found, also, that with 
the smaller intake of strong food, he had less 
thirst or desire for liquids of any kind. 

The temperance reformers declare that it is 
the strong food that gives rise to the desire for 
strong drinks, and incites the " whiskey appe- 
tite." Professor A. T. Jones says that Mr. 
Fletcher, by insisting on the necessity of chew- 
ing, or subjecting to mouth action, all fluids 

1 Physiological Economy in Nutrition, by Prof. R. H. Chit- 
tenden, Ph.D., LL.D., Sc.D. Frederick A. Stokes Company, 
New York. 



84 BETTERMENT 

having taste and therefore nutriment, has done 
more for temperance than any one else, as you 
cannot attempt to " chew " whiskey without 
arousing a disHke for it. 

The results Professor Chittenden obtained in 
himself were repeated with very little variation 
in the case of the professional men, or brain- 
workers, who went through the long course of 
experiments. All were benefited mentally and 
physically by the lessened intake of food. 

The thirteen men from the Hospital Corps 
were at starting a miscellaneous lot of men, 
but under Professor Chittenden's regime and 
the severe work in the gymnasium, their im- 
provement was remarkable. The report of 
Dr. W. G. Anderson, Director of the Yale 
University Gymnasium, is emphatic on this 
point. Professor Chittenden says: 

" The main things in Dr. Anderson's report 
especially to be emphasised are: 

"(i) The gain in self-reliance and courage 
of the men under training, indicative as they 
are of the better physical condition of their 
bodies, and 

"(2) The marked increase in their strength 
as indicated by the steady improvement in 
strength or dynamometer tests. . . . 

" The figures showing the total strength of 



BETTERMENT 86 

the men in October, 1903, on their ordinary- 
diet, and on the second day of April, 1904, 
when the experiment was nearing completion, 
are certainly very impressive. 

TOTAL STRENGTH 

October April 

Henderson 2970 4598 

Oakman ....... 3445 5055 

Morris 2543 4869 

Zooman 3070 5457 

Coffman 2835 6269 

Steltz 2838 4581 

Loewenthal 2463 5277 

Sliney 3245 5307 

Fritz 2504 5178 

Cohn 2210 4992 

Broyles 2560 5530 

" Here we see gains in strength of 100 per 
cent in some cases, while Coffman shows an 
improvement so marked as to be almost mar- 
vellous.'' 

These dynamometer tests were very thor- 
ough, trying the men's strength in every way ; 
and while these units of measurement will not 
convey any positive idea of the actual strength 
of the men, yet their relative strength before 
and after the experiment is shown quite plainly. 



86 BETTERMENT 

The New Training 

While these results are sufficiently remarkable, 
the chief surprise was furnished by the trained 
athletes. These men were *' in the pink of 
condition " when judged by the old standards; 
but under the new regime they showed the same 
remarkable ratio of improvement. The men 
represented nearly all phases of athletics, from 
the herculean wrestler, Stapleton, to the all- 
round athlete and the wire-drawn runner. 

Professors Atwater ^ and Sherman made 
observations on the amount of food taken by 
professional bicycle riders during a six-day 
race. *' M " in one day took 8355 grams ^ of 
food, and rode 334 miles. " A," who rode 
352 miles, took 3851 grams of food. Thus the 
man who took little more than one-third of the 
mass of food taken by his rival rode 18 miles 
further.. These are significant figures. But 
we must remember that bicycle riding, while 
producing some nervous strain, exercises the 
body and the arms little more than the lightest 
of light occupations ; on the legs alone falls the 
great strain of the exertion. Under the new 
system of diet originally established through 

1 U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 98. Quoted by Professor Chittenden. 

2 About 19^ pounds! 



BETTERMENT 87 

careful mastication, Stapleton, the herculean 
wrestler, and wrestling instructor at Yale Uni- 
versity, undergoing meanwhile the severe all- 
round work of the gymnasium, only took 2831 
grams of lighter food; while other athletes, 
doing heavy exercise in their various special 
lines, took considerably less, one taking as lit- 
tle as 1453 grams. Yet these men — trained 
athletes of years' standing — were stronger 
and fitter than they had ever been under the old 
system of training. I designate only the bulk 
of the food, not its constituents; but the food 
was so varied in each case that a detailed analy- 
sis of its chemical elements would not mate- 
rially affect the argument. 

The athletes were first tested under their old 
system of diet, and then the men, who co- 
operated heartily and intelligently, gradually 
reduced the amount of food (especially the 
nitrogenous or proteid-bearing foods) to about 
one-half the amount ; some of them voluntarily 
gave up meat altogether. In every case great 
benefit resulted, as shown in the report of 
Dr. Anderson, Director of the Yale Gym- 
nasium. The improvement in strength dur- 
ing the six months of the new dieting, as 
shown by the dynamometer tests, is given in 
the following table: 

'" Of THE \ 

UNIVERSITY ) 



88 BETTERMENT 

January June 

Mr. G. W. Anderson, foot-, 
base-, and basket-ball player, 
etc 4913 5722 -f 809 

Mr. W. L. Anderson, Capt. 

Yale Gymnastic Team, etc. 6016 9472 + 3456 

Mr. H. S. Bellis, gymnast and 
acrobat, always in training 

Dr. W. H. Callahan, bowling, 
hand-ball, running, etc. 

Mr. M. Donahue, strong, all- 
round athlete .... 

Mr. C. S. Jacobus, great long- 
distance runner, etc. . . 

Mr. H. R. Schenker, inter- 
collegiate point-winner . . 

Mr. J. Stapleton, great wrestler 
and professional gymnast . 

This advance of Mr. Stapleton's from 5351 
to 6833 was afterwards raised to over 10,000. 
These are notable figures. Here we have eight 
highly trained men reducing their food to Httle 
more than one-third of what they were ac- 
customed to regard as the right quantity, and 
on this they maintain their weight and in- 
crease their strength, the lowest by 809, and 
the highest by 3456 points, as tested by the 
dynamometer.^ 

1 Totals in dynamometric measurements are a guide to 
comparative muscular strength, and are modified by speed in 
running, etc. 



5993 


8165 + 2177 


2154 


3983 + 2729 


4584 


5917 + 1333 


4548 


5667 + 2229 


5728 


713s + 1407 


5351 


6833 -f T482 



BETTERMENT 89 

Throughout this great work of Professor 
Chittenden's, which must mark a turning point 
in athletic training and prescribed dietaries, he 
has done but scant justice, I think, to the source 
of his inspiration, as he was proving on a large 
scale what Mr. Fletcher and Dr. Van Someren 
had demonstrated on a smaller one. And 
although Professor Chittenden is himself the 
most thorough-going of Fletcherisers in masti- 
cation, as the author has personally observed, 
Professor Chittenden left that point out of his 
experiments. This, as he says, he did to con- 
centrate on the one point of quantity, and not 
allow the discussion to ride off on a side issue. 
It is well known that in case the economic 
supply of food elements is prescribed the di- 
gestive apparatus will care for them, with its 
supplementary arrangements, but without mas- 
tication one needs a chemist to prescribe. 
There can be little doubt that had he insisted 
on thoroughness of mastication his results 
would have been even more astonishing. 

Dr. J. H. Kellogg, the organiser and pre- 
siding genius of one of the most remarkable 
institutions in the United States devoted to 
natural methods of attaining health, the Battle 
Creek Sanitarium, is an enthusiastic Fletcher- 
iser. With the minimum of noise and con- 



90 BETTERMENT 

fusion he is yet a hurricane worker, accom- 
plishing an immense amount of work every- 
day of the year. Writing recently, he said: 

" By the way, you [Mr. Fletcher] asked me 
at St. Louis about the amount of food I 
was eating. Since the first day of November 
I have been taking careful note of everything I 
ate. I find my average is 1200 calories a day. 
Many days I ate only 800 calories. [3000 to 
3436 and even higher are the amounts given 
by the " authorities " as being the minimum 
standard.] Sometimes the amount has in- 
creased to 1400 or 1600, and one day, I think, 
1800 calories. I eat a breakfast consisting 
of apples and grapes, or a little fruit of some 
other kind; then I eat dinner at one o'clock. 
I eat nothing more. I eat nothing after my one 
o'clock idinner. I hold my weight, and get just 
as much work out of myself every day as is 
possible." 

The Minimum of Waste 

One remarkable result of thoroughly masti- 
cating food and taking only the right amount, 
is that it is nearly all assimilated, the waste 
products are reduced to a minimum, and they 
are quite inoffensive. As Sir Michael Foster 
says : " One fact fully confirmed by the Cam- 



BETTERMENT 91 

bridge observations consists in the effect of the 
special habits described upon the waste products 
of the bowel. These are greatly reduced in 
amount, as might be expected; but they are 
also markedly changed in character, becoming 
odourless and inoffensive, and assuming a con- 
dition which suggests that the intestine is in 
a healthier and more aseptic condition than is 
the case under ordinary circumstances." 

If these results were generally attained, all 
sanitary problems would be greatly simplified, 
and the terrible loss of life from unsanitary 
military camps would be greatly reduced. 

The great saving in cost of food, in trouble, 
and the saving of nervous and physical energy 
required in forcing superfluous food through 
nearly thirty feet of the alimentary canal, makes 
this simple system as nearly a veritabl^anacea 
as we are likely to get in this world of extrava- 
gance and artificial tastes. 

A remarkable feature of this system of 
natural economics is that it sweeps away a 
whole host of hampering fads and prescriptions, 
and puts each under the direct care of the best 
physician in the world — Dr. Nature. A criti- 
cal period of life is just when we cease to grow. 
The amount of food needed by the wonder- 
fully active growing youth is dangerously 



92 BETTERMENT 

excessive when growth has ceased. But the 
habits acquired during the growing period are 
too apt to be continued afterwards, through 
force of habit, and this lays the foundation of 
the subsequent internal troubles. We still 
believe we need the usual amount of food, and 
the stomach even seems to crave it; but this 
is as false as the craving for stimulants, or any 
other bad-habit craving to the habitually over- 
indulgent. Once we get rid of this false habit- 
hunger we put ourselves into line with Nature 
and obtain the full benefit of her guidance. It 
matters little what we eat, within the range of 
appetite. Nearly all depends on how we eat 
it, and on taking only the right amount, which 
an appetite aided by mastication will rightly 
determine. Nature has given us the best of 
prescribers within us, if we will only heed her 
behests. Once we get rid of bad habits and 
false cravings, the appetite is the best possible 
guide to the body's real needs. This is revo- 
lutionary doctrine, but it is true. As in ges- 
tation the mother's needs for certain foods are 
often so imperative that, if denied, the offspring 
may be marked for life; so have we guiding 
food-instincts within us if we will but listen to 
their still small voice. 

The old-fashioned idea is that whatever we 



BETTERMENT 93 

wish for is bad for us; and many a child has 
had its constitution ruined from denial of the 
food it craved. Mr. Fletcher lets his eye rove 
over the bill of fare and allows his appetite to 
decide, and it often selects the oddest or the 
simplest things; then they are enjoyed with 
a relish no artificial gourmand can command. 
In the instinct expressed by normal appetite 
we have the safest guide of all. 

The rule deduced from the experiments is 
not to worry about your food, and never to eat 
when you are worried about anything else. 
Mr. Fletcher puts it in jingling form easy to 
memorise : *' Do not eat when you are mad, 
or sad; only when you are glad." Any emo- 
tional shock will instantly arrest digestion. 
Worry will produce indigestion; and, curiously, 
enough, indigestion will reciprocally produce 
worry. Oftentimes, unless we are on guard 
against it, the outlook grows dark and threat- 
ening ; seen and unseen dangers lurk ominously 
and menace air our cherished plans. We look 
on the dark side of things and see the worst. 
This disease, for disease it is, might really be 
called Pessimitis, as it is the morbid state from 
which pessimism springs. 

This malarial condition often arises from 
intestinal indigestion, where superfluous or 



94 BETTERMENT 

unmasticated food, which passes through the 
ahmentary canal undigested, is being reduced 
by the putrefactive action of bacteria. This 
state of things is a potent cause of sleepless- 
ness. It produces poisonous products, and 
these circulating through the system give rise 
to a form of blood-poisoning which depresses 
the mind and the system generally, and causes 
the gloom and the pessimistic forebodings which 
prove to be so groundless and silly when the 
indigestion passes and we once again bask in 
mental sunshine. 

Another point should be mentioned which 
is the only one on which I differ in practice 
from Mr. Fletcher and Dr. Van Someren. 
Mr. Fletcher avoids talking as much as possi- 
ble while eating, for the purpose of deriving 
the keenest enjoyment from taste in order to 
best stimulate gastric digestion a la Pawlow. 
Dr. Van Someren generally dines in silence, 
deeply immersed in a book. With me, how- 
ever, silence at meals tends to depression, and 
to read at or immediately after meals arrests 
my digestion utterly. This shows how greatly 
constitutions differ, and how wise Mr. Fletcher 
is in avoiding hampering prescriptions and in 
laying down only general principles which each 
one must apply to his individual needs. But 



BETTERMENT 95 

there can be little doubt that bright, cheerful 
talk, absorbing the time and otherwise occupy- 
ing the jaws, has deprived heavy dinners of 
some of their fatal effects. If these great 
functions were always performed in funereal 
silence, funerals would undoubtedly multiply. 
In this regard, as in so many others, one should 
try for himself which plan suits him best. 

It is said that the man who is his own lawyer 
has a fool for a client ; but the man who is his 
own physician has probably a very wise man 
for his patient. As I shall attempt to show 
later, a man in his own mental forces has a 
grand physician always at his service. 

This chapter is too long and too full to 
summarise; but the reader will have no diffi- 
culty in gathering practical pointers for his 
own guidance. This is a matter for personal 
testing. Try it, and the beneficent results will 
astonish you. It has been proved to be equiva- 
lent to a full 20 per cent rise in wages to day- 
workers, on account of the saving in cost of 
living, and much more in increased efficiency. 

To the rich man the gain is equally great 
in other ways. It saves doctor's bills, and 
those periods of enforced rest, or of physical 
or nervous breakdown, to which the strenuous 



96 BETTERMENT 

brain-worker is so liable, and which may, and 
generally does, happen just at important crises 
in affairs. 

It should greatly simplify the feeding of 
armies. At present more than half the food 
is worse than wasted; being wrongly eaten it 
gives rise to intestinal troubles, which are 
much more fatal than bullets.^ It was noticed 
during the Boer War that the British soldiers, 
when they were reduced to a single hard biscuit 
a day, felt an extraordinary sense of brightness 
and exhilaration. This was attributed to the 
air of the Veldt; but these are the favourable 
symptoms which always appear when an ex- 
cessive burden is removed from the human 
stomach, which, as Abernethy said, is " more 
overloaded than any ass in the world." 

This revelation of the natural economy 
carries the germs of an economic revolution 
for Great Britain, since, if people would prac- 
tise intelligent physiological economy in nu- 
trition, England could easily supply herself 
with food under stress of isolation. The 
wasted food is more than enough to feed every 
hungry person in the land. 

This rational system asks us to forego coarse, 

1 See From Tokio through Manchuria with the Japanese, 
by Dr. Major Louis L. Seaman (Appletons). 



BETTERMENT 97 

exhausting " pleasures " that lower efficiency 
and bring the most painful of diseases; in 
return it offers the most exquisite pleasures 
that taste can bestow, with a great increase of 
health, happiness, and efficiency. It does not 
ask for the slightest increase of outlay, but 
saves money in many ways, and offers to all 
an exhilarating sense of well-being that comes 
as a genuine surprise. 

Surely no system in this world asks so little 
and offers so much! 



" The Country is Food-drunk f 

(Edison on Eating) 

The great Thomas Alva Edison, the Napo- 
leon of inventors, has recently given remark- 
able corroborative evidence on the question of 
the right quantity of food needed by the brain- 
worker. He is a follower of Luigi Cornaro, 
and he made or indorsed the above striking 
phrase: "The country is food-drunk!'' A 
writer in the New York World, Mr. James 
Creelman, gives the results of a most interest- 
ing interview with the great worker, which was 
reprinted in the London Daily MaiL 

Mr. Edison, in his fifty-ninth year, is de- 
scribed as bright, vigorous, fresh-coloured, and 
7 



98 BETTERMENT 

alert as a youth, with eagerness of interest in 
all things pertaining to his work. Everything 
he says has the mark of sincerity. He declared : 
'* I have investigated the subject enough to 
know that a man cannot do good, clear, logical 
brain-work with his stomach full of undigested 
food.'' Having contracted an acute stomach 
trouble, as he believes, through his work with 
the X-ray, he began to experiment with his 
diet. He had always been a light eater (one 
secret of his mighty brain power), but decided 
to cut down his food still more. " For two 
months I lived on four ounces of food for each 
meal. That made twelve ounces of food a day. 
Of course I varied my food. I would take a 
teaspoonful of peas, a small piece of toast and 
caviare, a tiny sandwich, a little bit of ham, a 
fragment of rye bread with Swiss cheese, and 
so on. . . . At the end of two months of this 
diet I weighed just as much as when I began, 
exactly 185 pounds. I found that living on 
twelve ounces a day for four weeks had made 
me mentally brighter, and had diminished 
neither my strength nor my weight." During 
this time he worked as hard as ever; and his 
capacity for work is phenomenal. 

Mr. Edison then briefly referred to Luigi 
Cornaro, who is thus spoken of by Dr. Van 



BETTERMENT 99 

Someren, in the paper in which he introduced 
Mr. Fletcher's experiments to the British 
Medical Association: " Luigi Cornaro (1467- 
1566) was a Venetian nobleman, famous for 
his treatises on a temperate life. From some 
dishonesty on the part of his relatives, he was 
deprived of his rank and induced to retire to 
Padua, where he acquired the experience in 
regard to food and regimen which he has de- 
tailed in his works. In youth he lived freely, 
but after a severe illness at the age of forty, 
he began under medical advice gradually to 
reduce his diet. For some time he restricted 
himself to a daily allowance of twelve ounces 
of solid food and fourteen ounces of wine. 
Later in life he still further reduced his bill 
of fare, and he found that he could support 
his life and strength with no more solid meat 
than an egg a day. So much habituated did 
he become to this simple diet that when he was 
about seventy years of age the addition, by 
way of experiment, of two ounces a day nearly 
proved fatal. At the age of eighty-three he 
wrote his treatise on the ' Sure and Certain 
Method of Attaining a Long and Healthful 
Life.' And this work was followed by three 
others on the same subject, composed at the 
ages of eighty-six, ninety-one, and ninety-five 



100 BETTERMENT 

respectively. ' They are written/ says Addison, 
' with such a spirit of cheerfulness, religion, 
and good sense as are the natural concomi- 
tants of temperance and sobriety/ He died 
at the age of ninety-eight, — some say of one 
hundred and three ! " After referring to the 
above facts, Mr. Edison continued: 

" Now, my father lived to be ninety-four 
years old. My grandfather lived to be a hun- 
dred and two years old. My great-grandfather 
lived to be a hundred and four years old. All 
three were disciples of Cornaro and lived ac- 
cording to his ideas." When Mr. Edison was 
eating only twelve ounces of food a day he was 
taking no exercise ; had he been doing physical 
work he would, as he says, have needed more 
food. For big eaters plenty of exercise is an 
absolute necessity. He says that the average 
machinist eats thirty or forty (he might have 
said fifty or seventy-five) per cent too much. 
" He would be a stronger, brighter, and happier 
man on less food." 

" It is simply appalling to know how pro- 
fessional men and others who do little physical 
work stuff themselves. There is no sense in 
it. It means dulness, disease, and early death. 
It is an extraordinary thing to observe how 
great business men, the lawyers, doctors, and 



BETTERMENT 101 

clergymen, men who show the highest intelli- 
gence in ordinary matters, continue to sin 
against nature by overeating. The slightest 
practical investigation of the evidence on the 
subject would prove to them that they are 
clogged up with undigested food. A short 
trial of a scantier diet would improve their 
mental and physical condition and make work 
a pleasure to them. Yet they go right on filling 
themselves up simply to gratify an appetite 
born of habit." 

Such corroborative testimony as to the sound- 
ness on the main contentions of this chapter 
from one of the greatest inventors and workers 
is of the highest possible value. The power 
of work conferred by his light diet is amazing. 
When he was at the incandescent electric light 
problem, he worked, he says, for five days and 
nights without sleep and with very little food, 
and did as good work under those conditions 
as he ever did in his life. After that he had 
twenty hours sleep ; but " it was a fine, deep, 
refreshing sleep. After I got up I went at my 
work as strong and as keen as ever." Here is 
a " specimen day " of this advocate of the 
strenuous but simple life: 

" Here I am, a man approaching sixty years, 
and see how strong and active I am. The 



102 BETTERMENT 

greatest pleasure in my life is work. I get out 
of bed at five in the morning, take a walk out 
among the trees and birds, and wait around, 
reading the newspapers, until the folks get up, 
which is about 6.30 o'clock. Then I take my 
breakfast with them and go to work. I keep at 
my task until about six in the afternoon. Then 
I go home to dinner. I generally get to the 
table when the dessert is being served, and I 
am through my meal as soon as the others. 
Then I get out my notebooks and work until 
eleven or twelve o'clock at night preparing for 
the next day. After that, bed and a fine sleep. 
That 's the way to live if you wish to accom- 
plish anything." 

This is the sort of man two or three genera- 
tions of Fletcherism would produce; and Mr. 
Edison may thank the abstinence from over- 
eating of his centenarian ancestors, and his own 
abstinence, for this power of living an extra 
strenuous life without the breakdown which 
generally dogs the strenuous life in America. 
Edison believes that the harder the work the 
longer the life, and that when men complain 
of overwork it is really overeating that is the 
trouble. That he himself should be able to 
keep up three-man-power of work to such an 
age is remarkable. In my own student days 



BETTERMENT 103 

I used to get up between three and four o'clock 
in the morning and work until eleven at night, 
but I could not do it now. 

The value of a long interval between meals 
for the brain-worker is shown by the genial 
Mark Twain, one of the world's great bene- 
factors, since laughter is one of the best of 
all medicines. This laughter-evoking genius 
said, on attaining his seventieth birthday, that 
he had his coffee and toast at eight o'clock in 
the morning, and then ate nothing until after 
seven in the evening, and that he had never 
had a headache in his life. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE HEROIC CURE 

If a person avails himself of the hints given 
in the previous chapters he is not Hkely to need 
any form of cure. But it is one thing to know 
the right and quite another to do it. The 
habits of a lifetime are not easily corrected; 
and the eager spirit too often forgets or dis- 
regards the needs of the body, and trouble 
ensues. In such cases it is well to know of a 
cure, entirely in agreement with what has 
already been presented, and one which has 
greater promise than anything at present above 
the medical horizon. It is also one that puts 
us under the care of that wonder-worker 
Nature, or I should certainly have nothing to 
say in its favour. 

Some years ago Dr. E. Hooker Dewey of 
Meadville, Pennsylvania, U. S. A., became 
sceptical of orthodox medical methods and 
remedies. They seemed to him barbarous and 
inefficient. His disbelief in drugs steadily 
grew, until one day he came upon the following 



BETTERMENT 106 

case, which invited serious study, and ultimately 
led to momentous results. He says : 

" I was one day called to one of the families 
of the poorest of the poor, where I found a 
sick case that set me to thinking. The patient 
was a sallow, overgrown girl in early maturity, 
with a history of several months of digestive 
and other troubles. I found a very sick patient, 
so sick that for a period of three weeks not 
even one drink of water was retained, not one 
dose of medicine, and it was not until several 
days more that water could be borne. When 
finally water could be retained, my patient 
seemed brighter in mind, the complexion was 
clearer, and she seemed actually stronger. As 
for the tongue, which at first was heavily 
coated, the improvement was striking; while 
the breath, utterly foul at first, was strikingly 
less offensive. In every way the patient was 
very much better. 

" I was so surprised at this that I determined 
at once to let the work go on on Nature's own 
terms ; and so it did until about the thirty-fifth 
day, when there was a call, not for the under- 
taker, but for food, — a call that marked the 
close of the disease. The pulse and temperature 
had become normal, and there was a tongue as 
clean as the tongue of a nursing infant. Up 



106 BETTERMENT 

to this time this was the most severely sick case 
I ever had that recovered, and yet with not 
apparently more wasting of the body than with 
other cases of as protracted sickness in which 
more or less food was given and retained. 
And all this with only water for thirst until 
hunger came and a complete cure ! " ^ 

This upsetting of all orthodox ideas came 
as a revelation to the doctor. Here was a 
patient living for thirty-five days on nothing 
but water, and instead of dying of starvation 
she was completely cured, and had no desire 
for food until Nature had completed her work 
of repair. 

Similar experiences were met with again 
and again in the good doctor's practice; and 
even more remarkable cases occurred with a 
scientific young disciple of his. 

" Believing," he says, " that I had made a 
most important discovery in physiology, one 
that would revolutionise the dietetic treatment 
of the sick, if not utterly abolish it, my visits 
to the sick became of unsurpassed interest. I 
watched every possible change as I would an 
unfolding of new life, seeing the physical 

1 The No-Breakfast Plan and The Fasting Cure, by 
Edward Hooker Dewey, M.D. Published by the Author. 
Meadville, Pa., U. S. A. Sold by L. N. Fowler & Co., Impe- 
rial Arcade, Ludgate Hill, London, England. 



BETTERMENT 107 

changes only as I would see the swelling buds 
evolve into the leaves or flowers, reading the 
soul-and-mind changes in the more radiant 
lines of expression. I saw all these things with 
the naked eye, and more and more marvelled 
at the bulk of our materia medicas, the size of 
our drugstores, and the space given to healing 
powers in all public and medical prints. 

" For years I saw my patients grow into 
the strength of health without the slightest 
clue to the mystery, until I chanced to open 
a new edition of Yeo's " Physiology " at the 
page where I found this table of the estimated 
losses that occur in death after starvation: 

Fat 97 per cent. 

Muscle 30 " " 

Liver 56 *' " 

Spleen 63 '' '' 

Elood 17 " " 

Nerve-centres o " " 

" And light came as if the sun had suddenly 
appeared in the zenith at midnight. Instantly 
I saw in human bodies a vast reserve of pre- 
digested food, with the brain in possession of 
power so to absorb as to maintain structural 
integrity in the absence of food or power to 
digest it. This eliminated the brain entirely 



108 BETTERMENT 

as an organ that needs to be fed from light- 
diet kitchens in times of acute sickness. Only 
in this self-feeding power of the brain is found 
the explanation of its functional clearness 
where bodies have become skeletons. 

" I could now go into rooms of the sick with 
a formula which explained all the mysteries of 
the maintenance and support of vital power 
and cure of disease, and which was of practical 
avail. I now knew that there could be no death 
from starvation until the body was reduced to 
the skeleton condition; that therefore for 
structural integrity, for functional clearness, 
the brain has no need of food when disease has 
abolished the desire for it. I could know that 
to die of starvation is a matter not of days, but 
of weeks and months; certainly a period far 
beyond the average time of recovery from 
acute disease." 

He discovered that each one of us has 
stored-up food-capital enough to last us from 
sixty to one hundred days; so that for that 
time we can live on nothing but water, not only 
without mental loss, but with a great increase 
of clearness of mind and mental alertness. 
Since the digestion of food costs a great ex- 
penditure of both nervous and physical energy, 
it is manifest that if we can live on our food- 



BETTERMENT 109 

capital, Nature can use the whole of this energy 
to aid her recuperative powers, her power of 
self-healings. 

Ther^Hfsa vague idea current that doctors 
cure disease. The most that they themselves 
claim is that they are able to assist Nature; 
the healing and repairing has to be done by the 
self-same power that builds and sustains our 
bodies, heals our wounds, and generally man- 
ages to keep us in fair working order in spite 
of our blundering ignorance. When Nature 
takes away our appetite in sickness she gives 
us hints which have been badly neglected. 
When acted on and no food is taken, Nature 
has all her energies to devote to the work of 
cure, to repairing the internal machinery, to 
building up new tissues and putting us in 
thorough working order. As soon as this 
work is complete, but not till then, does the 
appetite return. Nature then calls for food, 
and if given with due care, of the kind the 
appetite demands, and duly Fletcherised, the 
cure is complete, and Nature will again store 
up food-capital against the next emergency. 
This is certainly one of the most remarkable 
discoveries in the entire history of medicine. 

A truly remarkable case has come to some 
extent under my own observation-. A dis- 



110 BETTERMENT 

tinguished American, one whose eager, tireless 
spirit would wear out the strongest of bodies, 
or half a dozen bodies if it could inhabit and 
use them in turn, had to pay the penalty of 
the too strenuous life. Although he came of 
a splendid stock, the wear and tear of the high- 
pressure work in the United States brought on 
a complication of internal troubles, which under 
ordinary treatment might have soon ended his 
valuable life. Starting for Europe for the 
needed rest, he travelled by the Southern route 
and through Italy during the hottest months 
of a hot year (1904), and arrived at Venice 
in a high fever. He placed himself in the 
hands of the English physician, Dr. Van 
Someren, Mr. Fletcher's co-worker. For three 
years this doctor had been tentatively applying 
Dr. Dewey's principles with invariable success.^ 



1 Dr. Van Someren was so struck with the invariably suc- 
cessful results of entire abstinence from food in the treatment 
of diseases, where the prominent symptom was loss of appe- 
tite, that he determined to make as exhaustive a study as he 
could of the literature dealing with the physiological and the 
clinical aspects of Abstinence, Famine, Fasting, Hunger, 
Hibernation, and Inanition. In London, finding that the 
Army Medical Department's Library in Washington was the 
richest in the literature of these subjects, he went there. His 
study of the subject, in four languages, led him to the conclu- 
sion that in all diseases in which appetite is in abeyance, and 
in those where it is variable or capricious, complete absti- 
nence, or as he prefers to call it auto-nutrition, being induced, 



BETTERMENT 111 

After explaining them in their simplicity to 
his patient, the latter determined to adopt the 
seemingly heroic treatment. He totally ab- 
stained from food, and in twenty-four hours 
the fever had quite left him. 

This contrasts strongly with another case 
I came in contact with in America. A gen- 
tleman who was suffering in similar fashion 
was subjected to just the opposite treat- 
ment. His doctors stuffed him with food, 
and thus kept up the fever for nearly four 
months, leaving their patient very nearly a 
wreck. 

To return to the hero of the dietetic rest. 
He went with his doctor to Val Sesia, a grand 
Alpine valley under the shadow of Monte 
Rosa. There for thirty-seven days he con- 
tinued his fast. Although he rested nearly 
all the time, he despatched business matters 
whenever they needed attention with his usual 

the body will pass from a pathological to a physiological state, 
— in other words, will get well. 

Dr. Dewey found that in many cases the symptoms that 
existed before auto-nutrition re-appeared when the patient re- 
turned to his old bad habits of excessive eating. Dr. Dewey 
hailed Fletcherism as the necessary complement to his fasting 
cure, and both he and Dr. Van Someren have demonstrated 
that symptoms of a chronic and serious character can be 
treated successfully by auto-nutrition, and do not return when 
the patient adopts Fletcherism and the necessary physiological 
economy of nutrition thereby involved. 



112 BETTERMENT 

alertness. He lost nearly a pound in weight 
every day. I saw him on the thirty-fifth day 
of his fast ; he was thin, but there was nothing 
to suggest that he had been fasting. During 
all this time there had been no appetite, but 
there was an occasional desire to smell the 
food which was pronounced increasingly good. 
On the evening of the thirty-sixth day there 
was a flooding of saliva into the mouth in such 
quantities as to cause frequent swallowing, — 
a sign of returning appetite. This phenomenon 
was transitory, and on the advice of the doctor 
was disregarded. The next day it was re- 
peated more intensely, and food was taken. 
Nature not only demanded food as soon as 
she was able to deal with it, but she also dic- 
tated the kind of food needed. The first food 
desired was some of the local bread baked in 
sticks and therefore all crust. The next day a 
roasted potato was desired. With these simple 
foods the long fast was broken; and it is a 
significant fact that these should have been 
chosen. It is needless to say that every mouth- 
ful was faithfully Fletcherised. 

During the whole of the fast, or dietetic rest, 
the careful doctor had the waste products ana- 
lysed, and it was noted that all the patholog- 
ical symptoms gradually disappeared. By the 



BETTERMENT 113 

time the appetite returned, all traces of disease 
had gone! 

When we left him at Alagna, he expressed 
the intention of resting another week, and then 
travelling to England by easy stages. Four 
days later he astonished and delighted the 
members of the Physiological Congress at 
Brussels by appearing before them. Among 
them was Dr. Henry Bowditch, of the Har- 
vard Medical School, who had seen a good 
deal of the earlier stages of the fast, and 
was anxious concerning the daring experi- 
ment, as he regarded it, which the doctor 
and his distinguished patient were engaged 
in. It was an impressive demonstration of 
what will probably prove to be the most 
important chapter in the history of the heal- 
ing art, which has hitherto lagged so sadly 
behind the splendidly progressive science of 
surgery. 

The doctor prescribed a systematic course 
of exercise, and accordingly this new-made man 
went with him on a riding tour through the 
South of England, with a Sandow trainer in his 
suite. They rode from twenty to twenty-five 
miles a day, with a good deal of walking, fish- 
ing, and a regular course of Sandow exercises. 
The enjoyment of regained health brought 
8 



114 BETTERMENT 

about a return of the old tendency to over- 
work, and caused a set-back; but a few days 
of dietetic rest put matters right. 

Two months later I saw him in London. He 
was still thin, but the eyes were bright, and the 
complexion clear, and he was despatching vari- 
ous affairs with that easy, unhurrying celerity 
which is one secret of the American's wonder- 
ful power of work. I saw him change into 
flannels and go through a severe course of ex- 
ercises under his Sandow professor, — exercises 
that would have tired out many a younger 
man, — and all the movements were bright and 
rapid. 

After this he went round the world, taking 
his physical trainer with him, and continued to 
carry out the exercises systematically. He re- 
turned from that long, fatiguing, and exciting 
trip strong, fit, and, as his friends said, looking 
twenty years younger. He is greatly impressed 
with the value of systematic and all-round exer- 
cise ; and he finds, as he informed Dr. Bowditch, 
that with it he can get through as much work in 
four hours as he could do formerly in a long 
and exhausting day. 

This remarkable case confirms in every way 
those which Dr. Dewey gives in " The No- 
Breakfast Plan " and in " The True Science 



BETTERMENT 115 

of Living." * The case presented by the expe- 
rience of Dr. Dewey and that of his followers 
was already strong enough to demand thorough 
investigation by any less conservative profes- 
sion than that of medicine, a profession which 
needs new light more than any other. After 
the above case the demand for investigation is 
imperative. 

In view of the alarming increase of insanity, 
one case may be given which throws a gleam 
of light on that dark problem. It shows, too, 
that doctors are often madder than their pa- 
tients, forcing food on people driven mad by 
the putrefying masses of food that the system 
is quite unable to digest. 

" Miss Estella Kuenzel," says Dr. Dewey, 
" a lady of twenty-two years, of acutest sensi- 
bilities, lost her mental health, to a degree that 
death became the final object of desire. She 
had a friend in a bright young man named 
Henry Ritter, a born scientist, who possesses 
the very genius of the pains and persistence of 
science. Well versed in the science of the 
morning fast, he believed that a fast which 
would merely end with hunger would result in 

1 Chas. C. Haskell & Son, Norwich, Conn., U. S. A., and 
L. N. Fowler & Co., 7 Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus, 
London. 



116 BETTERMENT 

all-round improvement. A fast was instituted 
which he thought would not last more than a 
few days, but went on until the days merged 
into weeks; it went on because only general 
improvement attended it. I first heard of it in 
a letter written by him on the thirty-eighth day 
of the fast, during which there had been a walk 
of seven miles. On the forty-second day of 
the fast I had a brief letter from Miss K. in 
which every line was radiant with cheer. 

" At the asylum five feedings per day were 
ordered, and at first rejected; but finally she 
accepted them as a means to end her unhappy 
life. She took them in bed, and in the last 
weeks seemed to be fleshing up, as there was a 
gain of seventeen pounds above the normal, of 
water, — she had become dropsical. The last 
professional expert in her case advised a half- 
gallon of milk daily in addition to the three 
regular meals, making a five-meal plan." 

The case is well summarised in a letter 
of Miss Kuenzel's, the latter part of which 
takes up the story at the above point. She 
says: 

" ' It was then that my friend Mr. Ritter 
stepped in, as he saw the failures of professors 
and specialists, and begged my parents to let 
him have a chance to demonstrate what Dr. 



BETTERMENT 117 

Dewey's method would do for melancholy illu- 
sions and tired-out stomach and nerves. I then 
went to friends, and, in entire ignorance of my 
parents, began under the directions of Mr. Rit- 
ter the most sensible and cheapest of all cures. 
I began my fast on October 3d, and broke the 
same on November i6th. During the first week 
of my fast I was in bed; during the second 
(excepting the eleventh day, when I took my 
first walk of seven-eighths of a mile) I was in 
bed, in rocker, reading, etc. On the twentieth 
day, after a drive of three hours, I went to 
church, walking two and one-sixteenth miles. 
I then stayed indoors again on the twenty-first 
and twenty-second days, and then started tak- 
ing daily walks (weather permitting). I went 
out walking twenty-three out of the forty-five 
days of my fast, and during that time walked 
one hundred and twelve miles. This was be- 
sides the carriage-drives. Exposition, and even- 
ing gatherings (walking to same included). 
I did not in the least feel tired or weak, but 
happier and brighter each day of the fast, as I 
could feel the effects of a new life throughout 
my whole body. My mind also became clearer 
and dizziness became a thing of the past. This 
was indeed joy supreme to me, and life became 
once more a joy instead of a burden. Sun- 



118 BETTERMENT 

shine, trees, flowers, etc., again made an impres- 
sion; and my parents, sisters, and friends are 
rejoiced to see me in my happy normal state of 
health/ " 

Sensations of hunger were marked on the 
forty-fourth day and night, and next morning 
Miss Kuenzel broke her long fast by eating a 
poached egg and two slices of buttered whole 
wheat toasted bread. During her fast the lady 
was seen by seven physicians and medical pro- 
fessors. President MacAlister and professors of 
the Drexel Institute, and many others. The 
weight lost during the fast was about half a 
pound a day. 

Another remarkable case is that of Mr. Leon- 
ard Thress, of 2618 Frankford Avenue, Phila- 
delphia. He was in the last stages of dropsy, 
hopelessly given up to a speedy death by the 
many physicians he had vainly sought and paid 
well for relief. His state was horrible; he 
could not lie down nor even lay his head back 
without choking, and to walk across the room 
was an exhausting task. At the critical moment 
he heard of Miss Kuenzel's wonderful cure, 
and as it was that or death he determined to 
try it. Taking nothing but a little orange and 
lemon juice and a little tonic, he continued his 
fast for fifty days, "According to Thress's 



BETTERMENT 119 

own recital," says the North American, " the 
effects of this course of treatment were amaz- 
ing. He says that the natural craving for food 
was gone after the first day. Three days later 
he had gained so much strength that he was 
able to go upstairs to bed and enjoyed a good 
night's sleep. From that time on, although he 
steadily lost weight, his vitality grew greater, 
and on January 22d he left the house and took 
a half-mile walk. (He began to fast on the 
nth of January.) Before three weeks of his 
fast had elapsed his dropsy had disappeared, 
and thereafter he took almost daily walks, in- 
creasing the distance with his strength. Some 
days he covered as many as five miles, and never 
less than two, even while he was growing 
thinner and thinner.'' 

On the fiftieth day his appetite returned, he 
took the food his appetite demanded, and he said 
that he would take no regular meals, but would 
eat only when hungry. All his ailments had 
left him, and he said that he never felt healthier 
and heartier in his life. 

Again : " The following case was deemed a 
miracle by all friends : Mrs. H. B., a woman of 
seventy-six, became exceedingly breathless, 
due, it was supposed, to defective heart ac- 
tion that had been chronic for many years. 



im BETTERMENT 

The final result was general dropsy. The 
eyelids had become so heavy that reading 
could be indulged only a short time because 
of their weight; the throat was also charged 
with water so as to make swallowing diffi- 
cult/' etc. 

In short, a very bad case. " What," asks Dr. 
Dewey, " had authorised medical art to promise 
in such a case ? Absolutely nothing, as she had 
become too old and weak to be subjected to 
the ordinary means for such a general condi- 
tion. As for a fast for one so old, that was the 
last thing that would have been thought of; 
her age and debility would only have seemed 
to invite more daily food than she had been 
taking. She was put on a fast, or rather the 
fast was continued, the cold having abolished 
her appetite. It went on until the fifteenth day, 
with increasing general strength and dimin- 
ished weight. The last days before hunger 
came, she was able to go up a long flight of 
stairs without aid of the railing, and without 
marked loss of breath ; the heart-murmur had 
nearly disappeared, and water by the gallon 
seemed to have been absorbed. On the fifteenth 
day there was a desire for food, that was taken 
with relish through the enlarged throat with- 
out difficulty; the water pockets had become 



BETTERMENT 121 

emptied, and the lids so thin and light as to 
reveal no fatigue in reading. Thence on, one 
meal a day became the rule; and since there 
have been five years without any recurrence of 
the conditions, — five years of remarkable gen- 
eral health and girl-time relish for her daily 
food." 

Brain-workers were equally benefited. The 
Rev. C. H. Dalrymple, who had broken down, 
fasted for thirty-nine and one-half days, re- 
gained his health, and kept it. He says, " I 
have had no chills nor fevers this winter, nor 
cold in any form." He was working harder 
than ever, and adds : " I gained strength be- 
yond all question about three weeks before my 
appetite returned. I could work all day long 
finally. It was good to get well." ^ 

" Mr. Ritter conducted over twenty cases, 
some of the patients being able to carry on 
their usual avocations. I give the most im- 
portant of them: Mr. A. H., forty-five days; 
Miss B. H., thirty-two days; Mrs. L., thirty- 
eight days; Mr. L. W., thirty-six days; Miss 
E. S., twenty-six days; Miss Westing, forty- 
two days. This lady on the fortieth day was 

1 The Rev. G. F. Pentecost, D.D., in his introduction to 
Dr. Dewey's book, The True Science of Living, advises 
clergymen to abstain from all food on Sundays, as they would 
preach better. 



122 BETTERMENT 

able to sing with unusual clearness and power, 
and ended her fast without losing a day from 
her duties as a teacher of music." 

Dr. Dewey continues : " I may well wonder 
that Nature is powerful enough to cure the sick 
at all, even under the wisest aid ; but with me 
the abiding wonder is that physicians do not see 
that acute sickness is a loss of all the nat- 
ural conditions of digestion, with the wasting 
bodies the clearest evidence that food is neither 
digested nor assimilated. I wonder with in- 
creasing impatience that the stomach is not 
understood as a machine that Nature wills 
shall not be run to tax her resources when 
life is in the throes of disease." 

These discoveries of Dr. Dewey's are noth- 
ing less than a new revelation to physicians, 
and now that they are verified by the remark- 
able case I have quoted of Dr. Van Somer- 
en's patient, which was observed and tested at 
each stage with scientific thoroughness, it will 
be little short of criminal if these wonderful 
possibilities are neglected. The demand for in- 
vestigation is becoming stronger day by day, as 
Dr. Van Someren is applying the principle to 
a variety of diseases with uniform success. 
These cases are attracting the attention of 
scientific men of European reputation, to whom 



BETTERMENT 123 

they come as a beneficent revealment of Na- 
ture's marvellous recuperative powers. Un- 
fortunately doctors are greatly hampered by 
the ignorance of their patients, and the igno- 
rance and fussiness of their friends, many 
of whom would be scared by a doctor pro- 
posing the heroic cure. It is only a ques- 
tion of time to educate them; and in cases 
where Nature gives the hint by taking away 
the appetite, the first steps will be taken easily, 
and there will be no return of it until the cure 
is complete. 

Unfortunately the doctors have microbes on 
the brain just now, and are more intent on in- 
troducing horrible serums, or " cultures " into 
the human system, — the serums being often 
obtained at the cost of horrible suffering^ in- 
flicted on the lower animals. This recondite 
searching for what is staring them in the face 
is a characteristic of many professions. 

It was a mistake to call it the fasting cure, 
as it is only the disease which is starved, the 
body being well nourished on its stored-up 
food-capital. This is shown by the increasing 
strength and sense of well-being as the fast 
proceeds. This starving of disease is probably 
the real cure for abnormal growths, such as 

1 Rarely, if ever, in England and America. 



124 BETTERMENT 

cancer, for which the doctors are groping so 
bHndly/ 

Fresh air and Fletcherism will save us from 
disease ; but for those already sick this supreme 
cure is at their service. It would be better to 
take the cure in the care or under the observa- 
tion of a medical man ; but for the very poor it 
would be the cheapest of all cures, and they 
would be safer in Nature's hands than in those 
of the overworked practitioners whose services 
they could obtain. Their feelings would tell 
them how they were progressing, and so long 
as they attended to the demand for food when 
the appetite returned they would be absolutely 
safe. 

In a few years this will probably be looked 
upon as the cure of cures ; but at present it is 
looked on as an adventure into unknown or 
little explored regions. Those who have tried 
it have rendered a great service to humanity, as 
they have shown the way and will give the 
others courage, and may well be regarded as 
the heroes of the heroic cure! 

1 Pontean in the seventeenth century records two cases of 
veritable cure in cancer after, in both instances, sixty days of 
auto-nutrition, or fast. 



CHAPTER VIII 

RATIONAL EXERCISE , 

An old soldier, who carries his years as a 
crown rather than a burden, once said to me: 
" Whenever any of my friends get out of 
health, my invariable advice is. Halve your 
food and double your exercise! " That is a 
fine *' first approximation '' to the truth. 

When the body is rightly nourished, and 
there is no superfluous food to be worked off, 
very little exercise is needed; but that little 
should be of the right kind. It should supple- 
ment the exercise taken in the day^s work. 
For those engaged in light indoor occupations 
vigorous outdoor exercise is needed; indeed, 
anything that takes us into the fresh air (re- 
gardless of weather) is good. For the seden- 
tary worker walking is needed. The practice 
of walking to and from business is wise. 
Crushing into crowded and stuffy cars often 
takes more out of a person than the day's 
work ; it saves time now, but the bill will be 
presented later in a shortened life, or a pre- 



126 BETTERMENT 

mature breakdown. Walking ^ should have an 
object to occupy the mind. An eye for the 
picturesque means a continual feast for the 
walker. In the country a slight knowledge of 
botany or of geology will make every step 
of the way entertaining. In town the student 
of human nature will find endless interest in 
the passing crowd. Every face is at once a 
history or a prophecy, recording the past, or 
forecasting the future ; and to the imaginative 
the faces may suggest a whole series of Shake- 
spearian dramas, tragedies, comedies, or fairy 
stories. 

Cheerful talk with a friend is perhaps the 
best accompaniment for a walk. Golf is admi- 
rable for giving interest to a walk; but too 
often it ceases to be a game and becomes a 
solemn business. Another drawback is that 
you have to be accompanied by a critical 
caddie carrying clubs, ready to snigger at 
every miss-shot ; or you have to carry the clubs 
yourself, and that is not play. A one-club golf 
is the desideratum; the carrying of one club 
would be a delight, and the increase of skill 
that would come of getting thoroughly used 

1 Personally I prefer a run, and I get it in the suburbs 
by starting in the direction of a railway station ; then people 
think I am racing for a train and do not question my sanity. 



BETTERMENT 127 

to it, as one does to a favourite walking-stick, 
would be very great. 

Riding brings a great number of muscles 
into play, and is a fine and exhilarating 
exercise. 

In the chapter on training something was 
said as to the value of manual training as a 
form of exercise, for giving variety to the 
studies and for letting off superfluous physical 
energy. It is doubly valuable as affording 
exercise and training to both mind and hand; 
but it is trebly valuable when it can be carried 
on out of doors, as the fresh air gives added 
life. Every boy should be put through a course 
of military drill, which can generally be carried 
on in the open air. It is an invaluable all- 
round discipline, and would have great value 
for the nation as well as the individual. 

While interest and emulation are needed to 
make exercise really valuable, and these are 
best secured in games, there is always the 
danger that they may become the real object 
in life for the time being, and the other studies 
be regarded as a bore. This is more likely to 
be the case in England than in the United 
States, where the young Americans take life 
more seriously, and generally make the most 
of their educational opportunities. 



128 BETTERMENT 

Unless it be for a special object, the build- 
ing up of a great Sandow-like muscular devel- 
opment is by no means desirable. It is a heavy 
tax on the vital powers, and to keep it up 
requires an amount of regular practice which 
makes a business of it. All-round develop- 
ment which gives grace, moderate strength, 
and quickness is the highest desideratum. 

A new light has recently been thrown on 
this subject by the remarkable case of Herr 
George Lettl. Nearly forty years of age, 
below the medium height, and only 140 
pounds in weight, of light build, with no 
special training, and nothing remarkable in 
his well-developed arms and shoulders, he has 
beaten all records at weight lifting. The case 
was investigated by a physician, and reported 
by him in the World's Work and Play, Decem- 
ber, 1904. He ascribes this achievement mainly 
to will power. Persons under the stimulus of 
great excitement perform amazing feats of 
strength, and maniacs in their paroxysms will 
exert strength equal to that of three or four 
men. It is also curious to note that the great 
Sandow lays special stress on the part which 
mind and will play in feats of strength and 
in the building up of muscle. So it is well to 
have a good reserve of strength in case of 



BETTERMENT 129 

need; and the best plan is to lay up a good 
reserve of nervous energy by practising what 
I have called the Triad of Essentials, — Fresh 
Air and Deep Breathing, Right Nutrition, and 
Rational Exercise. In case of emergency this 
energy will convert very ordinary muscles into 
bands of steel. 

If women gave themselves gentle but all- 
round exercise they would be so strengthened 
that the pangs of child-bearing would be 
greatly diminished, and there would be less 
shrinking from the crown and glory of 
womanhood. 

The Japanese System of Physical Training 

The Japanese, with their wonderful sagacity, 
have perfected one of the most remarkable 
systems of physical training in the world — I 
should say the most remarkable. The " Jiu- 
jitsu '' displays a wonderful knowledge of 
anatomy. Every weak spot in the body has 
been discovered (a quite surprising number of 
them), and the laws of leverage and mo- 
mentum have been turned to account with 
amazing ingenuity. Trained in this art the 
little man can turn the big man's strength 
against himself, the little Japanese lady is a 

9 



130 BETTERMENT 

match for her husband, and more than a match 
for a burly burglar ignorant of the science of 
jiu-jitsu. 

The great secret of the strength, endurance, 
and cheery good-humour of the Japanese rests 
on right nutrition and deep breathing. They 
live on a light vegetarian diet, consisting prin- 
cipally of rice, a little fish, various vegetables, 
and occasionally hard-boiled eggs. Mr. Irving 
Hancock, in his excellent little work, " Jap- 
anese Physical Training,'' ^ says : " Certainly 
there is no hardier race in the world than the 
Japanese. Throughout the campaign in China, 
in 1900, the Japanese repeatedly proved their 
ability to outmarch our troops by fifty per 
cent — and this despite the fact that our 
American soldiers ranked second in point of 
endurance." 

Their great strength is obtained, or culti- 
vated, by a simple system of exercises, involv- 
ing the use of no apparatus ; but every exercise 
is preceded and followed by deep breathing. 
The aim is to develop all the muscles as far 
as possible, and to develop them symmetrically, 
the left side as much as the right. In the 
training of our own acrobats one of the first 
objects is to make them ambidextrous, to the 

1 G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York and London. 



BETTERMENT 131 

equal use of both hands. This tends to develop 
the brain symmetrically. By using the right 
hand so much more than the left, one side of 
the brain is developed more than the other. 
Some physiologists believe that the equal devel- 
opment of the limbs, and consequently of both 
sides of the brain, would conserve and increase 
our vital forces. Frederic Myers and other 
psychologists think that ambidexterity and the 
consequent development of the brain, have 
something to do with genius. Although I 
have not seen it mentioned, it is a curious fact 
that music, which produces more precocious 
genius than any other art, demands the equal 
use of both hands in all instrumental perform- 
ance; and while in piano playing the right 
hand has most to do, in violin playing the left 
has all the fingering, and the truth of the 
intervals between note and note depends upon 
hair's-breadth accuracy and marvellous pre- 
cision. Perhaps this equal use of both hands 
and both sides of the brain has some share in 
producing musical prodigies. 

Perhaps, too, the budding author of the 
future using two hands on the typewriter, in- 
stead of writing with one, may develop both 
sides of his brain more equally and give us 
some new and startling manifestations of 



132 BETTERMENT 

genius. It is also possible that this two- 
handed training of the Japs, acting as it does 
on the brain, may have some share in pro- 
ducing their extraordinary mental alertness. 
These possibilities should be borne in mind. 

In addition to all-round muscular training, 
the Japanese aim at strengthening all weak or 
vulnerable parts of the body. For instance, a 
blow below the belt would double up the ordi- 
nary man ; but to hit a trained Japanese there 
would be like hitting a football. By blows, 
gentle at first, he so hardens the muscles in 
that region that it is no longer a weak spot. 
The same process of induration is applied to 
the vulnerable parts of the throat. The whole 
system, both of attack and defence, is a marvel 
of forethoughtful ingenuity; and certainly the 
self-defensive parts should be adopted by us. 
It would enable the slight, nervous man to 
cope with the powerful ruffian and would tend 
to equality. The possession of these powers 
would also bring a fine form of courage. 



The Higher Exercise 

Years ago I said that while we had much 
to teach the yellow races (the golden races I 
prefer to call them) they have much to teach 



BETTERMENT 138 

us, although we were not then prepared to 
admit the fact. The amazing success of the 
Japanese has come as a new revelation to the 
West, and everything pertaining to that in- 
teresting people will have a vogue in the 
Western world. Their success in arms makes 
a forceful appeal that even the dullest cannot 
disregard. But they have finer lessons to teach 
us which need a finer intelligence to appreciate. 
We have learned something from them in art, 
but in a most superficial way ; their most valu- 
able lesson will be learnt by a later generation, 
probably at a time when the Japanese are 
losing the art themselves through the influx 
of Western ideas. This lesson is the value of 
exquisite finish, the giving of a rare precious- 
ness to the work of art. This daintiness of 
craftsmanship is the direct opposite of the slip- 
shod decadent work of the " Secessionists " 
which is doing so much to degrade the art of 
the West. 

It is curious that, while we have been cher- 
ishing a lordly sense of superiority to the 
golden races, many of them were highly civi- 
lised when we were still in the night of bar- 
barism. We are indebted to the East for our 
religion and much of our philosophy, and we 
have still much to learn from the same quarter. 



134 BETTERMENT 

The wonderful spirit displayed by the Jap- 
anese in their heroic struggle with the Colossus 
of the North is of a higher order than any- 
thing we have seen elsewhere. We know what 
noble deeds patriotism or pride of race can 
inspire; our history attests it on every page. 
We have seen religious fanaticism inspire the 
dark races to frenzied valour. We have seen 
the dusky warriors of the Soudan with their 
old-world weapons break into a square of 
British bayonets. We saw at Omdurman the 
serried masses of the faithful, decked in all 
the pomp of Eastern splendour, bearing down 
frantically upon the ring of fire and steel which 
mowed as with Death's own scythe the awful 
harvest of war. 

But the Japanese, who have been described 
as " great in little things," are showing that 
they are great in great things, and are show- 
ing a spirit that blends the inspiration of 
patriotism and religious fanaticism. They 
show a moral fervour, a spirit of self-sacrifice, 
a sense of honour that prefers death to sur- 
render, and a cheery bravery that makes them 
ideal fighters. Allowing for vanity, for pride 
of race, and the knowledge that the whole 
world is watching this racial conflict, there is 
still something higher. 



BETTERMENT 135 

This soul, this spirit of the nation, is the 
result of the cultivation through the ages of 
a knightly chivalry combined with the ethics 
of the Stoic. The warrior caste, the " Samu- 
rai,'' cultivated the noblesse oblige spirit to a 
high degree of perfection. The obligation of 
the nobility to nobility of conduct was instilled 
into the young, and carried out with more 
than Spartan fortitude. This noble discipline 
rests on an unformulated system of philosophy, 
or religio-philosophy, called *' Bushido," which 
is admirably expounded in a little book en- 
titled : " Bushido, The Soul of Japan. An 
Exposition of Japanese Thought.'' By Inazo 
Nitobe.^ The military correspondent of the 
London Times, in an excellent article, " The 
Soul of a Nation," ^ gives a short account of 
Bushido, which seems to be founded on Pro- 
fessor Nitobe's book, although the fact is not 
mentioned. The writer says: 

''If we cannot adequately express all that 
Bushido is, we can say what it is not. Take 
the average scheme of life of the average 
society of the West, and Bushido, as nearly 
as may be, represents its exact antithesis. 

1 Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & Co., London. And 
North Pacific Trading Co. Chicago, U. S. A. 

2 Reprinted in pamphlet form, London Times Office. 



136 BETTERMENT 

Bushido offers us the ideal of poverty instead 
of wealth, humility in place of ostentation, 
reserve instead of reclame, self-sacrifice in place 
of selfishness, the care of the interest of 
the State rather than that of the individual. 
Bushido inspires ardent courage and refusal 
to turn the back upon the enemy; it looks 
death calmly in the face and prefers it to 
ignominy of any kind. It preaches submission 
to authority and the sacrifice of all private 
interests, whether of self or of family, to the 
common weal. It requires its disciples to 
submit to a strict physical and mental disci- 
pline, develops a martial spirit, and, by laud- 
ing the virtues of courage, constancy, fortitude, 
faithfulness, daring, and self-restraint, offers 
an exalted code of moral principles not only 
for the man and the warrior, but for men 
and women in times both of peace and of 
war." 

Such ethics, not sterilised into mere Sunday 
lip-service, but inspiring the daily life of a 
whole people, comes as a vitalising breath of 
fresh air into the Western world. 

Mr. Horace Fletcher, a " Japantheist " of 
long standing, wishing to know the source of 
the wonderful calm and self-control of the 
Japanese, was told by Professor Fenollosa that 



BETTERMENT 137 

the first step in the invaluable discipline was 
to get rid of anger and worry. This was a 
revelation of new possibilities. Impossible as 
it seemed, the advice was followed with benefi- 
cent results. Mr. Fletcher tells us that all 
the world seemed to turn good to him; the 
thousand and one worries, vexations, and in- 
solences, which poison the pleasures of travel, 
disappeared as if by magic, and there seemed 
to be a general conspiracy to make things go 
sweetly. 

It is not my purpose to preach or to deal 
with moral or religious questions except in so 
far as they are driving forces making for 
working efficiency. The morale of a nation 
cannot be reckoned in dollars, simply because 
it is priceless ; and it will tend more and more 
to determine the national status and decide 
whether it is to go under as unfit or to take 
leading rank. If we can get rid of anger and 
worry, our health, our working powers, and our 
happiness will be greatly increased. I quote 
here the root propositions of Mr. Fletcher's 
earlier work, which was the first fruit of the 
revelation from Japan, and which has been a 
new inspiration to many. It is entitled : " Men- 
ticulture, or the A-B-C of True Living." ^ 

1 Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York. 



138 BETTERMENT 

" All of the evil passions are traceable to 
one of two roots. 

*' Anger is the root of all the aggressive 
passions. 

*' Worry is the root of all the cowardly- 
passions. 

" Envy, spite, revenge, impatience, annoy- 
ance, selfishness, prejudice, unrest, and the like 
are all phases of anger. Jealousy, fear, the 
belittling of self, the blues, and all the intro- 
spective forms of depression are the children 
of worry. 

** Anger and worry are the most unprofit- 
able conditions known to man. While they 
are in possession of the mind, both mental 
and physical growth are suspended. 

*' Anger and worry are thieves that steal 
precious time and energy from life. 

" Anger is a highway robber and worry is 
a sneak thief. 

" Anger and worry are the most potent 
forms of self-abuse, for the reason that in 
many cases anger is the result of misunder- 
standing, and in most cases worry's prophecies 
never come true; or, if they do, the fulfilment 
is generally caused by the worry itself. 

" Anger and worry do not stimulate to any 
good end. 



BETTERMENT 139 

"Anger and worry not only dwarf and 
depress, but sometimes kill. 

" Anger and worry are bad habits of the 
mind, and not necessary ingredients. 

" Anger and worry are no more neces- 
sary than other passions civilised man has 
learnt to control, and it is only needful to 
realise that they are unnecessary in order to 
make it impossible to feel, much less to show 
them." 

These are wise words, and they make not 
only for dollar-winning efficiency, but for 
power (self-control being the basis of the con- 
trol of others), for happiness and self-respect; 
and all are valuable assets. Both anger and 
worry arrest digestion, lessen the power of 
work, and lay the foundation of internal 
troubles. On the other hand, indigestion 
causes us to worry about trifles, and predis- 
poses us to anger. The mind and body act 
and react on each other, beneficially or ad- 
versely; and it is in our power to determine 
which it shall be. If the rules of right-living 
already laid down in previous chapters are 
followed, there will be no indigestion from 
over-eating or from wrong-eating. It remains 
only to prevent indigestion and all the other 
enervating troubles by banishing anger and 



140 BETTERMENT 

worry. It can be done by practice, by the 
Higher Exercise. 

There was a grandeur of soul in the phi- 
losopher who, on being told that if he acted in 
a certain way people would insult him, replied : 
" No ! My superiors will not, and my inferiors 
cannot, insult me ! " So we may brace our- 
selves up to say: Great things shall not worry 
me, and little things cannot. 

Science is showing us that human beings 
have grander possibilities than we had ever 
dared to dream. We are rooted in the Infinite, 
we are belted to Nature's own power-house, 
and all the forces of the universe will be more 
and more at our service. The sub-conscious 
mind, the " Subliminal Self," is in touch with 
the great positive mind of the universe. The 
boundless treasures of its thought and knowl- 
edge are ever knocking at the door of our 
consciousness, seeking admission. As the brain 
is attuned to higher vibrations it admits gleams 
from this vast ocean of light, and we have the 
inspirations of genius. As the mystery of ex- 
istence deepens with the ever-increasing won- 
ders revealed to us by physical science, so the 
mystery of mind deepens and the glorious dis- 
coveries of physical science will have their 
parallel in the realms of mind. With '' menti- 



BETTERMENT 141 

culture/' with the '' even mind " exercised on 
worthy themes, with the more finely attuned 
minds and finer bodies resulting from purer 
habits, from drinking more deeply of the 
Breath of Life, from right exercise and right 
nutrition, these higher possibilities will become 
the realised actualities of to-morrow. 

We have now glanced at the best means 
of attaining the highest individual efficiency. 
These means are simple, natural, and economic ; 
not only do they cost nothing, but they lead 
to an all-round saving, and are worth a twenty 
per cent rise in wages to every worker in the 
world who adopts them. They increase men- 
tal and physical efficiency and give an exhila- 
rating sense of well-being and happiness which 
is a fortune to its lucky possessor. 

We must now consider individuals in com- 
bination, — the organised efforts to produce 
the highest collective efficiency, to harmonise 
conflicting interests, and to bring about the 
maximum of human betterment. 



PART II 
CHAPTER IX 

THE HIGHER INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS 

Although I had the advantage of seeing 
the industries of the world epitomised at the 
biggest of all expositions — the mammoth dis- 
play at St. Louis — a visit to which was a 
liberal education in itself, yet even as thus 
summarised they were overpowering in their 
vastness and variety. Events and new devel- 
opments crowd each other so rapidly that by 
the time we have mastered one phase the world 
has moved on. The most we can do is to 
glance at certain tendencies and new ideas and 
illustrate them by a few of the best examples. 

In previous chapters I have shown the best 
means of bringing the individual up to the 
highest working efficiency; we have now to 
consider how individuals organised into in- 
dustrial armies, great or small, can attain their 
highest collective efficiency. 

There is one new development which, started 
by a flash of genius, has opened out a new and 
splendid chapter of industrial evolution. It 



BETTERMENT 143 

puts a premium on brains, sets every employee 
to using them, and gives him a personal in- 
terest in perfecting the organisation to which 
he belongs. 

The Suggestion System 

This is actually the organisation of brains, 
of intelligence, and has turned the factory in 
which it was first introduced into one of the 
model industrial institutions of the world. 
This is the National Cash Register Company, 
Dayton, Ohio, U. S. A., which has been ad- 
mirably described as '' A 5,000 Brain-Power 
Organisation," and it well deserves the name. 
To its president, John H. Patterson, belongs 
the honour of originating the system of obtain- 
ing suggestions from employees. It grew out 
of an early experience of his own, and he 
determined to embody the idea if he should 
ever become an employer himself, little fore- 
seeing what a splendid chance of doing so the 
fates had in store for him. This incident will 
have historic value in time to come, and 
accordingly is worth relating. 

In his earlier years Mr. Patterson was 
engaged as collector on a canal which ex- 
tended from Toledo through Dayton to Cin- 



lU BETTERMENT 

cinnati, and the chief ofifice of the lessees was 
at Columbus. Upon one occasion there was a 
break in the canal embankment, and the boats 
were stranded for miles on the mud, many of 
them loaded with ice, which was rapidly melt- 
ing under the July sun. The superintendent 
of this division north of Dayton was unequal 
to the emergency; repairs were delayed and 
valuable time lost. Oak planks and night and 
day work were needed, and Mr. Patterson had 
special knowledge of means by which the 
planks might be obtained quickly and much 
precious time be saved. He at once wired to 
Columbus a suggestion of what should be done. 
The answer came back, " You attend to your 
business and we will attend to ours." Such 
a reception of a valuable hint raised Mr. Pat- 
terson's wrath, and he said to his friends, " If 
I ever have an employee, I '11 hear his sugges- 
tions about what he may, perhaps, know better 
than I do." 1 

This was a milestone on the road of indus- 
trial betterment. Mr. Patterson has done great 

1 I am greatly indebted to Mr. Alfred A. Thomas, the sec- 
retary and legal adviser to the Company, for valuable in- 
formation. Mr. Thomas is a Solon of wisdom and garnered 
experience, is a school-fellow of Mr. Patterson's, and has been 
all his life in touch with the family. His information is there- 
fore of the surest. 



BETTERMENT 146 

things in organising and in welfare work, but 
they grew up stage by stage out of the cir- 
cumstances, one step leading to the next; but 
the Suggestion System was the realisation years 
afterwards of a long-cherished idea. 

Those who have to attend to machines and 
watch their working are naturally the first to 
notice defects, and if the workers have brains 
they can generally suggest improvements. But 
to make suggestions under the old system was 
to invite such a snubbing as Mr. Patterson 
received, or to incur the foreman's jealousy 
and lead to dismissal. One factory hand was 
asked why he did not improve his position by 
bringing himself to the attention of his fore- 
man through suggestion of better methods, and 
if there were not things in his department that 
might be improved. He replied : " Lots of 
them, but it is no use for me to make sugges- 
tions, as the foreman would take all the credit 
for them, and would think I was trying to get 
his job." 

When Mr. Patterson became the head of a 
great manufacturing company he solved the 
difficult problem in this way. Suggestions 
were asked for from the employees on any 
matter tending to improve methods or machin- 
ery, to effect saving in time or money, or in 



146 BETTERMENT 

any way to promote efficiency. Complaints 
were also invited. Numerous and handsome 
prizes were offered for all suggestions adopted. 
Where the ideas proved important other re- 
wards were given, or the idea bought outright. 
To protect those making complaints or sug- 
gestions a very ingenious system was devised. 
The official who engages the hands gives a list 
of those taken on to the proprietor, to whom 
each new man has to present himself. He is 
then allotted a number, the private register of 
which is kept under lock and key by the head 
of the firm. At convenient places in each de- 
partment suggestion boxes are placed. These 
contain a double roll of paper ; the suggestion 
is written on the upper one and is duplicated 
on the under one. The writer tears off the 
top one and keeps it, then turns a handle and 
the duplicate is rolled up out of sight, and can 
only be read when the box is opened by the 
right official. At regular intervals the secre- 
tary of the Factory Committee takes all the 
suggestions that have been written, and they 
are carefully examined by the Committee. 
These suggestions are referred to a competent 
authority in the departments to which the sug- 
gestions refer for comment, approval, or dis- 
approval. They are then carefully considered 



BETTERMENT 147 

and approved or declined strictly on their 
merits. The secretary immediately acknowl- 
edges the receipt of every suggestion, and the 
record of adoption is made at regular intervals 
in a special monthly publication of the Com- 
pany — The N, C, R. At the close of six 
months all the suggestions adopted are com- 
pared, and the most valuable ones receive the 
prizes offered by the Company. All sugges- 
tions adopted are brought to the special atten- 
tion of the management and are taken into 
consideration in making promotions. 

The prizes range from $75 down to $1 
according to merit. In lieu of the higher 
prizes, trips were given to exhibitions or to 
places where anything was to be learned. 
These trips cost the Company more than the 
money value of the prizes, but the benefit to 
the prize-winner and to the Company result- 
ing from the crop of new ideas gained is con- 
sidered ample compensation. The prizes are 
accompanied by handsome diplomas or certifi- 
cates, and these visible testimonials are highly 
valued. 

Manifold benefits to all concerned have fol- 
lowed the adoption of this system; it has 
turned mere " hands '' into men and women 
inventors and has remarkably quickened their 



148 BETTERMENT 

intelligence. The gain to the employers is 
equally great. Thousands of dollars are annu- 
ally saved as a result of such suggestions, and 
the system has tapped an exhaustless mine of 
wealth in the brains of the workers. The in- 
creased efficiency and general comfort in the 
factory are immense. All are on the alert to 
detect faulty methods and to suggest improve- 
ments; and as abuses can be reported with 
impunity, there are fewer to report. 

The half-yearly distribution of prizes by the 
pioneers of the system — the National Cash 
Register Company — is made an imposing 
affair. In winter the Grand Opera House is 
taken, and in the summer a great picnic or 
other outdoor festival is arranged. There are 
thus two brilliant functions for the workers 
to look forward to during the year; and they 
have all the charm and the excitement of grand 
lotteries, but lotteries of the most healthy and 
invigorating kind. The significance of this 
will be seen presently. These occasions are 
improved by stirring talks by the president or 
officers; and, as they all have the American 
gift of oratory, these addresses are most enjoy- 
able and stimulating. 

It is difficult to overrate the importance of 

I a just system of promotion; it is vital to a 

li 



BETTERMENT 149 

nation In all its departments. It is of incal- 
culable value to army, navy, the civil service, 
in education and in business. Strength and 
efficiency depend on getting the best men to 
the top, and in preventing the discouraging 
and disastrous folly of putting the incompetent 
over the competent. 

The Suggestion System at once brings the 
man of brains to the fore, and he is a marked 
man under the notice of the managers. The 
handsome certificates which accompany all 
prizes are the best of testimonials when a 
worker is seeking other employment. One of 
the great secrets of America's amazing success 
is the alertness with which the able men are 
promoted regardless of age or social standing, 
A man is doubly a man when he knows that 
his diligence and ability are sure of recogni- 
tion. The plan of asking for suggestions, with 
the needed modifications, should be adopted in 
every walk of life. 

In England the response to the invitations 
for suggestions is not so ready as in America; 
the short-sighted views held by the Trade 
Unions tending to prevent men making sug- 
gestions for the improvement of machinery, 
which the workers mistakenly regard as their 
enemy. In the more progressive firms in 



160 BETTERMENT 

America as many as two thousand suggestions 
have been made in one year, nearly half of the 
employees contributing. The system is being 
largely adopted in the States, with the most 
beneficial results. Among the firms who 
showed their alertness by an early adoption of 
the idea may be mentioned the Eastman Kodak 
Company, the Bausch and Lomb Optical Com- 
pany, Rochester, N. Y., the A. B. Chase Com- 
pany, organ and pianoforte makers, Norwalk, 
Ohio, and the J. C. Ayer Company, manu- 
facturing chemists, Lowell, Mass. 

In England the system was early adopted 
by Messrs. Lever Brothers of Port Sunlight. 
This is one of the most alert and up-to-date 
firms in Great Britain. Mr. W. H. Lever, the 
moving spirit of this world-wide organisation, 
keeps himself in touch with American methods. 
He is a philanthropist who yet recognises that 
philanthropy is resented by every true work- 
man, and he is careful to avoid anything that 
can be called by that name, or which can be 
regarded as benevolence or charity. So he 
helps the workers to help themselves, and 
always with a view to increasing efficiency. 
He has a large grasp of the great industrial 
problems, and in his lectures has made valu- 
able suggestions on the capital and labour ques- 



BETTERMENT 151 

tions. These and the firm's welfare work we 
shall consider later. 

There is one aspect of these suggestion com- 
petitions which has never been realised or even 
hinted at. There can be little doubt that many 
forms of vice are only illegitimate or harm- 
ful ways of meeting very real needs. The 
drink curse, the rage for betting, gambling, 
and all the morbid cravings for excitement are 
symptoms of real disease in the social and in- 
dustrial world. Too much and too little work 
are opposite causes of many of these evils. 
The monotony of work and the excessive 
amount of it turn a blessing into a curse. 
Varied work and a moderate amount of it is 
a delight to healthy human beings, meeting 
the need for exercise and recreation. Men will 
toil terribly at play, and pay heavily for the 
privilege; light and varied employment would 
be play-work to them. At the other extreme 
from monotonous and interest-killing overwork 
there is idleness. We find that idle hands are 
too often devil's tools, and vacant minds are 
devil's playgrounds. If all forms of work 
were looked on as honourable and were better 
apportioned it would cure a double evil. These 
two evils are the cause of nearly all the morbid 



152 BETTERMENT 

craving for excitement which afflicts humanity 
and which leads to so much demorahsation. 

The Suggestion System may do something 
to cure the evils arising from overwork. The 
monotony of labour, its hopelessness, and its 
soul-and-body-killing excess drive men to drink 
for the sake of the exhilaration which light 
and varied labour would bring. Its hopeless- 
ness drives them to betting and gambling to 
get the interest which work should supply and 
to get the chance of at least hoping for gain. 
Where these more demoralising forms of ex- 
citement are not indulged in, enterprising jour- 
nalism supplies others which are brought to 
hearth and home, and nearly all the members 
of a family are often set to work solving 
puzzles in the hope of prizes. It recently 
transpired that a lady spent four hours a day 
for nine months in an unsuccessful attempt to 
win a prize in a magazine competition. Much 
brain power that should go into a person's 
work is wasted on useless puzzles. Nearly all 
this feverish energy is worse than wasted, 
leaving a sickening sense of disappointment, 
of envy, and often a rankling sense of injustice. 

For workers of all sorts the Suggestion Sys- 
tem supplies the needed excitement and chance 
of gain with most stimulus. Instead of the 



BETTERMENT 153 

interest being drawn away from one's work 
it is focussed upon it in the most alluring way. 
The faculties are exercised with vigor and in 
a manner that increases efficiency in one's 
business and the opportunity of promotion 
with its lasting gain. There is also the chance 
of securing a handsome prize with a diploma, 
and all the honour and {jlory of being one of 
the heroes at the great half-yearly festivals. 
In one sense there are no blanks in these more 
healthy competitions, as the interest added to 
the work is a prize in itself, and the develop- 
ment of the faculties by exercise on worthy 
objects carries its own reward. This reward, 
from the standpoint of the higher purposes of 
life, is of greater value than the material 
reward. Then again, the half-yearly distribu- 
tions are alluring social events and carry all 
the pleasurable excitement of a big lottery. 

In this view the Suggestion System is not 
only an enormous gain from the business 
standpoint, but it also meets a real need for 
a little gentle excitement and the hope of 
gain, and brings improvement even to the 
" losers." Furthermore it carries moral safe- 
guards against other and demoralising forms 
of excitement. 

Apart from these higher considerations the 



154 BETTERMENT 

suggestions gained by this system have in 
many cases been the means of saving tens of 
thousands of dollars, in addition to the better- 
ment brought about by the improved methods. 
So the reasons for adopting the Suggestion 
System are overwhelming for all employers 
who realise their responsibilities, who wish to 
be abreast of the higher industrial develop- 
ments, and who would be saved from going 
under as the unfit. 



CHAPTER X 

MORALISING BUSINESS METHODS 

Business, like society, has its " Smart Set " 
which regards smartness and cuteness as of a 
higher order than such " back numbers " as 
the Ten Commandments. It is becoming in- 
creasingly manifest that fine moral fibre, high 
morale in a people, is a national asset of the 
utmost value. In time of war it may deter- 
mine the status of a nation; indeed its very 
freedom may depend upon it. The older firms 
have long recognised the commercial value of 
a good name, of a reputation for honesty, 
thoroughness, and sound workmanship. But 
with the smart set these qualities are apt to 
be regarded as belonging to old-fashioned 
ways, and incompatible with the modern gospel 
of hustle and beggar-my-neighbour methods. 
If it can be shown that honesty and truthful- 
ness are not only compatible with the very 
smartest, up-to-date hustling, but are essentials 
of abounding success, we shall have an object 
lesson of inestimable value. 



156 BETTERMENT 

As it happens, the same man of genius who 
lifted business methods up to a higher plane 
by instituting the Suggestion System has also 
demonstrated that honesty is the best policy 
even for the most strenuous business organisa- 
tions in the world. He has also shown that 
an open-handed generosity and a lavishness 
that made the orthodox business man gasp has 
brought sometimes ten and sometimes a hun- 
dredfold return; and this was done, not in a 
late millionaire stage of his career, but at a 
time when money was an object. It was done 
not from a plunging recklessness, but from 
true courage, keen business intuitions, and far- 
sightedness. When the gloom of commercial 
depression was at one time settling over the 
States and other firms were discharging their 
men, he took the matter in hand, and by 
working night and day, wearing out commit- 
tee after committee by his indefatigable energy, 
he wrought out schemes for extending the 
business in spite of the depression. These 
were so successful that no hands were dis- 
charged, and new ones were taken on. Thus 
he lived up to his motto : " Do good and make 
money, and do more good with the money so 
made." 

These successful efforts to moralise the keen- 



BETTERMENT 167 

est of business methods without introducing 
any creed claim our attention, and we must 
continue our study of that " marvellous organ- 
isation," the '' Model Factory " of the " Gem 
City " — Dayton — and its enlightened presi- 
dent. It may seem invidious to select from 
among the mass of splendidly, scientifically 
organised business concerns in the United 
States and elsewhere any one for special study. 
But it will be much more instructive to study 
one or two carefully than to scatter attention 
over a wider field, weary ourselves with an 
unmanageable mass of details and tiresome 
repetitions, and end with little or no compre- 
hension of the subject. 

In selecting the most instructive examples 
for my illustrations the initiative of the Na- 
tional Cash Register in introducing the Sug- 
gestion System, the most brilliant idea that 
has illumined the industrial world, gives that 
remarkable organisation the first claim to 
attention. But that is only one of many claims 
on our consideration. 

Meccas of the Industrial World 

This " Model Factory " has become an in- 
dustrial mecca to which pilgrims flock in tens 



168 BETTERMENT 

of thousands every year from all parts of the 
world. Expert opinion is unanimous in praise 
of the organisation. Mr. Mosely, who with 
his commission saw all that was best in the 
United States, said: 

'' I need hardly express my personal admira- 
tion of what is being done here. It is won- 
derful. I wish that instead of bringing two 
commissions I could bring many more, for I 
feel that it will be a great enlightenment to 
our people at home. I look to the future with 
some confidence, because lessons of this descrip- 
tion must bear their imprint on the future. I 
believe that in course of time this work will 
spread not only in this country and to England, 
but to other parts of Europe, and that then 
we shall get a real solution of the labour prob- 
lems. We cannot all be Carnegies ; we cannot 
all be great and successful men; but it does 
lie in our power to help make the life of the 
working men both instructive and pleasant. 
I do not know of any institution in the world 
which offers so beautiful an illustration of 
the proper working conditions as the National 
Cash Register Company. Your president has 
asked me to criticise. I cannot find anything 
to criticise in this factory. I have never seen 
such conditions in any other factory in the 



BETTERMENT 159 

world, nor have I seen so many bright and 
intelligent faces as we have seen at luncheon 
in both the men's and women's dining-rooms. 
I believe this factory is as nearly perfect as 
social conditions will permit." 

Mr. T. A. Flynn, one of Mr. Mosely's 
experts, in his report says that the National 
Cash Register " is, perhaps, the finest example 
existing of intelligent treatment of workpeople, 
coupled with intense pushfulness. In moderate 
phrase it may be termed a workers' Arcadia." 
Mr. W. Coffey, another of Mr. Mosely's ex- 
perts (and it must be remembered that they 
had just been viewing the most important 
works in America), said: "It was a revela- 
tion as to what can be accomplished by well- 
planned organisation and good-will of all 
concerned." 

The admiration expressed by these British 
experts was expressed by President Francis, 
the head of the wonderful Exposition at St. 
Louis, by the World's Fair Commissioners of 
twelve nations, and by a host of eminent men 
who have visited the factory from time to time. 
Sir Hugh Gilzean Reid said of the National 
Cash Register, " It is the poetry of business ! " 



160 BETTERMENT 

Morality Mechanised 

The product of this great organisation, the 
cash register, has a curious fascination. It is 
a symbol of the whole, as it is the work of 
many brains and hands working in fruitful 
co-operation. Its great claim on our consid- 
eration is the fact that it is so rapidly doing 
away with that pestilent open till, which has 
tempted so many to their ruin and has led to 
petty pilfering and demoralisation. It is, in a 
word, the symbol of the slipshod old methods. 
The cash register and other such mechanical 
recorders take away this temptation, to which 
erring humanity ought not to be exposed; 
they are the best means yet devised for pre- 
venting the customer or the employer from 
being cheated, and for avoiding irritating little 
mistakes which may involve all concerned. 
Thus these ingenious bits of mechanism, which 
seem to work with quite uncanny intelligence 
in their undeviating accuracy, may be regarded 
as Morality Mechanised ! The open till is not 
only a constant menace to morality, but it may 
and often does involve innocent persons in 
suspicion and leads to manifold injustice. 
Many a man will remain honest while he is 
trusted, but if he finds himself under ground- 



BETTERMENT 161 

less suspicion one of the strongest barriers 
against dishonesty is thrown down, he is 
robbed of a priceless possession, and from a 
feeling of resentment he will often do the thing 
he is suspected of. There is another objec- 
tion to the tempting till. When a man is 
underpaid he may feel that there is a sort of 
justice in supplementing his income by ille- 
gitimate means. This fatal first step may lead 
to utter demoralisation. Thus injustice on one 
side leads to injustice on the other. 

The National Cash Register, with its cus- 
tomary insight, recognises this principle and 
always pays its employees well. It never puts 
a $2,000 man in a $3,000 post; and, having 
taken away all unnecessary temptation from a 
man, they trust him, and thus get the best 
that can be obtained from human nature. 

The open till is a quite unnecessary tempta- 
tion, and the employer who is robbed must 
share the blame. We are taught the prayer, 
" Lead us not into temptation," but there is 
no reason why it should not have taken the 
form of a direct commandment and have been 
thundered forth from the heights of Sinai: 
Thou shalt not lead into temptation! 

Just over twenty years ago certain stores 
that should have been showing a profit showed 



162 BETTERMENT 

none. A man came along with a crude cash 
register, it was put in the stores, and a hand- 
some profit at once appeared. Its immense 
possibiHties were at once seen and seized; and 
this vast concern is the result. The amount of 
dishonesty prevented is incalculable ; and a few 
pilfering clerks have led to this great good. 
It is a cherished belief of mine that there is 
not an evil in this world which, when viewed 
by the eye of genius, may not be turned into 
a great good by moral machinery. 

The great task before the social reformer is 
so to rearrange social conditions and social 
machinery that men's interests agree with their 
duties and thus take away the inducements to 
dishonesty. 

Honesty has always been regarded by the 
National Cash Register and similar organisa- 
tions as an essential condition of success. 
Prizes are offered for the detection of errors 
or exaggerations in the statements of any of 
their publications. In the talks to the em- 
ployees, whether by the president, the manager, 
or the assistant manager, the need for honesty 
is emphasised; and in the instructions to the 
selling force it is especially insisted upon. 
Under the heading of *' How to succeed as a 
salesman " we find this : 



BETTERMENT 163 

" Be honest. The confidence of your em- 
ployer and your customer is part of your stock 
in trade. Be honest with your employer, with 
your customers, and with yourselves." And 
again : " Don't exaggerate, stick to facts. A 
disappointed customer can do more harm than 
$i,ooo worth of good advertising can repair." 
It is refreshing thus to see the old, old maxim 
running: Honesty is the Hustler's best policy! 

Under the pressure of the lightning pace, 
shams soon burst. 



CHAPTER XI 

A MODEL FACTORY 

A DISTANT glance at the smoke-stack of 
the National Cash Register Company Factory- 
shows that *' excelsior " organisation preaching 
a much needed lesson to many of the States. 
From the time I left New York, which is 
fairly clean in this respect, I was oppressed by 
the black palls hanging over nearly every great 
town we passed on our way to St. Louis. The 
factory chimneys were belching forth blacker 
grime than I have seen even in the ^' black 
country '' in England. This was made to 
appear worse by the contrast with the clouds 
of white steam rising from nearly all the build- 
ings. The pearly palaces of the World's Fair 
stood out with snowy whiteness against the 
heaven-sullying grime of distant St. Louis. 
This black plague has been worse since the 
great coal strike. The scarcity of hard coal 
caused by that labour war compelled people to 
use soft coal without proper appliances for 



BETTERMENT 165 

lessening the awful smother of black smoke, 
and they have gone on burning it since. 

At Dayton the smoke from the locomotives 
and the ordinary factories was just as bad as 
in other pall-covered cities. On approaching 
the National Cash Register a sabbath stillness 
seemed to reign, and I concluded that all were 
away on one of the educational holiday trips 
which Mr. Patterson delights in affording his 
workpeople. On looking closer I saw that 
there was a little smoke issuing from the lofty 
chimney, and lower down there was about as 
much steam visible as would be made by an 
energetic tea-kettle. On visiting the power 
house later I had the good fortune to be shown 
round by Mr. E. A. Deeds, the assistant gen- 
eral manager and the electrical expert of the 
Company. He is one of the ablest lieutenants 
Mr. Patterson, with his eye for men, has gath- 
ered about him; men young in years, old in 
knowledge and wisdom. I questioned him 
about the smoke fiend, and he declared it was 
not the fault of the coal, but the result of bad 
stoking. He soon demonstrated the fact by 
showing the methods employed at the National 
Cash Register. 



166 BETTERMENT 

The Power House 

The power house is typical of the whole, — 
a model of cleanliness and economic efficiency. 
Broad-based as it is on unusually heavy foun- 
dations, the vibration is reduced to a minimum. 
The compound engines get all the power out 
of the steam, which is used in many ways and 
finally condensed. It then supplies the boilers 
with hot distilled water; this saves fuel and 
supplies water that will not choke up the boilers 
with fur, but leaves just enough to give a thin, 
harmless coating that prevents rusting. 

The boilers are placed low in the ground so 
that the coal cars can shoot their loads direct 
into the automatic feeders or stokers. In front 
of these fiery furnaces there is only a pleasant 
summer temperature, and two men are seen 
leisurely inspecting the quiet giant that supplies 
the whole of the vast factory and its upper 
brain cells with pulsating life, — with heat, 
light, and power. By means of the automatic 
stokers common soft coal is supplied so steadily 
as never to dull the white glow of heat. The 
coal is so applied that it is turned into coke 
at once, in the fore part of the furnace, so 
that the whole of the smoke from this coking 
process has to pass over the fiercest part of 



BETTERMENT 167 

the fire and is nearly all consumed. Behind 
the furnace proper there is an unusually large 
chamber in which all the gas and what little 
smoke there is are subjected to the whole 
concentrated heat before they reach the tube 
boilers. By this means the nearest approach 
to perfect, smokeless combustion is attained. 

The cost of this improved plant, Mr. Deeds 
said, was about one third more to start with, 
but it soon paid for itself. This is not surpris- 
ing, as by the old methods one third of the fuel 
is belched in grimy blackness to eclipse the sun 
and to make all the inhabitants of a city light 
up earlier in the evenings than they would 
otherwise have to do. In addition to the waste 
of fuel that goes up the chimney, much less 
heat is obtained from that which is consumed. 
There is also the great additional labour re- 
quired. And it is labour of a disagreeable and 
exhausting kind. So there is no excuse but 
absolute poverty, bankruptcy of credit, or sheer 
out-of-date ignorance for those who allow this 
wasteful smoke nuisance to continue. 

In this, as in so many other things, the 
National Cash Register afifords a valuable 
object-lesson, showing that the best pays the 
best. 



168 BETTERMENT 

Factory or University? 

The distant view of a smokeless factory 
chimney in that part of America so surprised 
me that it prompted my first questions, the 
answers to which I have given. 

On approaching the factory one sees fair 
spreading lawns, avenues of young trees, ar- 
tistically laid out flower-beds, and a wealth of 
varied shrubbery. From this pleasance rise 
structures which, were it not for their severe 
simplicity, might be called crystal palaces. So 
much of light and lightness do they display 
that the five-storied buildings are just vast 
window-frames, giving the maximum of glass 
and the minimum of dead wall. This form of 
structure is now being largely copied by up- 
to-date factories elsewhere, as it gives the 
workers such a splendid light and an air of 
cheerfulness which is exhilarating. From 
every one of these big windows there is a 
pleasant prospect. More cheerful conditions 
for indoor work could scarcely be imagined; 
well might Mr. Flynn, of the Mosely Com- 
mission, describe it as a " Worker's Arcadia." 

As you walk around these buildings em- 
bowered in their flowery setting, with their air 
of quiet, their brightness and cheerfulness, the 



BETTERMENT 169 

feeling creeps over you that it is more like a 
university than a modern factory. And the 
impression is deepened when you see the 
workers trooping out after the daily task is 
done; for they look more like students, minus 
cap and gown, than toilers in a factory — so 
smart and clean and with so few signs of the 
" weary worker." It is noteworthy that while 
new hands may be careless and slovenly in 
their attire when first taken on, they soon catch 
the spirit of the place and brighten remark- 
ably. It is found, too, that this brightness and 
care for personal appearance reacts beneficially 
upon their work. 

The president of the National Cash Register 
was on one occasion giving a talk on welfare 
work to a number of employers, and some of 
them said : " That is all very well for you here 
with plenty of space, but what are we to do 
crowded up in town? " Mr. Patterson replied: 
"You can always do something; you can let 
your people leave off ten minutes before lunch 
time, so that they can wash and brighten up 
before they go out into the street; you can 
also use the whitewash brush to brighten and 
sweeten the place a bit. Improve the conditions 
and they will improve their work. It pays." 

The most notable thing about the main 



170 BETTERMENT 

entrance to the factory is that each door-post 
is embelHshed with a handsome metal tablet 
starring or recording the names of the sales- 
men who have most distinguished themselves. 

On entering we find ourselves in what is 
at once a museum, a reading-room, and a 
library. The books are arranged on an in- 
genious device which displays the books and 
magazines to the best advantage, and, being 
on wheels, can be moved easily into the various 
departments where they are needed. 

The museum section illustrates the evolution 
of the cash register from its earliest inception, 
and is a treasure-house for those interested in 
the history of inventions. 

We soon came upon one of the notice boards 
which are such a feature with this company. 
It is part of a settled policy to take its em- 
ployees into its confidence so far as possible 
upon all occasions. On the notice boards the 
happenings of the day are posted, — the things 
to be done, the distinguished visitors who are 
coming, etc. This generally takes the form 
of an elegant poster, headed with flags beau- 
tifully printed in colours, with the announce- 
ment : ** The flags are raised in honour of the 

visit to-day of ." Then follow the names 

pf the distinguished visitors, with short notes 



BETTERMENT 171 

on their claims to distinction. So when for- 
eign visitors arrive they look up and see their 
national flags waving them a welcome. 

From this department we enter the lecture 
hall, in which visitors are entertained with 
a " stereopticon talk " on the history and devel- 
opment of the Company's wonderful work. 
Here, too, the employees are often called to- 
gether to hear instructive talks from distin- 
guished men, to hear announcements from the 
management, or to be consulted upon matters 
of pressing import. 

Upon this occasion Mr. Horace Fletcher was 
giving one of his valuable lectures on Right 
Nutrition. He was introduced by the general 
manager, Mr. Hugh Chalmers, a young man 
whose career admirably illustrates the perfec- 
tion of the system of promotion in operation 
at the National Cash Register. Beginning as 
office boy at f6urteen, he studied every spare 
moment, and learned stenography and book- 
keeping ; then he worked himself up from post 
to post until he attained his present proud 
position. He was in turn stenographer, book- 
keeper, office manager, salesman, sales agent, 
instructor of the Agents' School, manager of 
Agencies, a member of the Board of Directors, 
second vice-president, and general manager. 



172 BETTERMENT 

That might well be called a true excelsior 
ladder ; but it is one that all must climb. Mr. 
Robert Patterson, the vice-president, although 
a nephew of the president, had to work his 
way up in the same way from stage to stage, 
doing excellent work in all the departments 
and making notable improvements in the sys- 
tem. This is the method of obtaining the 
right man in the right place. 

In introducing Mr. Fletcher, Mr. Chalmers 
took the opportunity of making some an- 
nouncements of interest to the employees. He 
told them that the Company had just beaten 
all previous records for the year's sales. Then 
the true grit of the man, the statesmanlike in- 
stincts, displayed themselves. He told the men 
that times of abounding prosperity were the 
most dangerous, as they were apt to induce a 
slackening of effort, a resting on the oars. 
He urged on them the necessity for renewed 
efforts, for increased watchfulness and alert- 
ness to seize every means to increase the per- 
fection of their methods and to keep up the 
rate of progress. This is the spirit that has 
built up this remarkable organisation, has won 
for it its brilliant success, and will ensure the 
maintenance of its pride of place. 



t3 



BETTERMENT 173 

Cleanliness and the Safeguards of Health 

Everything is kept scrupulously clean by an 
army of janitors in spotless white. Dust and 
all metal and emery-filings are collected by 
huge exhaust pumps and carried down to the 
basement. Everything that foresight can sug- 
gest is done for the health and comfort of the 
workers. ** The foundry is provided with 
every device for insuring cleanliness, light, and 
pure air. A system of hoods and piping frees 
the interior from smoke, conducting it into 
the sewers so that the atmosphere is always 
pure and wholesome." 

In the cooking department, presided over by 
a distinguished chef from the Waldorf-Astoria, 
the same ingenious means are adopted to col- 
lect all the odour-carrying steam and conduct 
it out of the building. 

The welfare features I am leaving for later 
consideration, and wish to confine myself to 
the industrial features as much as possible. 
But they overlap in some cases and it is diffi- 
cult to draw the line. Looked at from any 
point of view the organisation is so perfect 
that it seems invidious to mention any one 
department. Glance at any of them and you 
will find it the type of all the rest. One indi- 



174 BETTERMENT 

vidual will be interested in one department and 
a person of different tastes will be attracted 
to another. If he is interested in the mysteries 
of accounts, of book-keeping, he will find the 
treasury department organised so perfectly that 
a balance-sheet could, if needed, be forthcom- 
ing almost at a day's notice. A high degree 
of perfection is attained in all the great busi- 
ness organisations of the world, and they make 
the old-fashioned business man gasp for breath. 
Experts ask whether these later developments 
at the National Cash Register are worth the 
extra work, since balance-sheets are not wanted 
every day. That is a question for experts, but 
to be able instantly to detect errors or leakage 
without waiting for the periodical balancing 
of the books might in some cases be an enor- 
mous gain. To the mere onlooker there is 
something fascinating in the triumph of sys- 
tem that can reduce to ordered simplicity such 
a vast multiplicity of details. The mechanical 
devices are equally interesting, — the arith- 
metical machines, the errorless adder, summing 
up nine columns at once, multiplying and divid- 
ing in a way that is quite uncanny. 



BETTERMENT 175 

New Men and New Methods 

In dealing with new and complicated prod- 
ucts like a cash register a host of new problems 
have to be faced. Men have to be made or 
trained to meet the complex requirements. 
The salesmen, on whom so much depend, have 
to go through quite a college course of in- 
struction before they are allowed to handle 
cash registers. In the making of the novel 
mechanism a great number of strange tools 
are needed, and the department devoted to 
making them is one of the most interesting. 
The so-called " tools " are in many cases them- 
selves complicated machines ; some of the most 
effective of which have been invented by the 
employees, as a result of the Suggestion 
System. 

The five Invention Departments are the best 
evidence of foresight, of intelligent anticipa- 
tion. A large corps of inventors are constantly 
employed in working out new ideas. The aim 
is to anticipate future developments and future 
demands, so as to be not merely up to date 
but ahead of the time. 

The Printing Department is big enough and 
complete enough for a huge printing business ; 
that it should be merely an adjunct to the cash 



176 BETTERMENT 

register business shows the extent of the latter, 
and what an important part the printing press 
plays in modern industrial organisations. 

In addition to the printing press there is an 
army of hand printers or typewriters tapping 
out messages to all parts of the world. 

Every department receives marks for smart- 
ness and efficiency, and the one obtaining the 
greatest number for the month has a special 
banner of honour conspicuously displayed. 
The successful one is often called the " Top- 
Notch '' Department. This creates healthy 
emulation, and is a splendid stimulus. 

There are photographers making a pictorial 
record of all interesting events and of interest- 
ing persons who visit the factory. They pre- 
pare the stereopticon slides which form such 
a feature in the educational mission the presi- 
dent has been so long engaged in. 

Mr. Patterson holds that " Business is Teach- 
ing " ; and since he has generously given the 
world the benefit of his experience, and allows 
forty thousand pairs of eager eyes to go annu- 
ally over the works to see how things are done, 
the National Cash Register bears out the first 
impression it gave me, that of an industrial 
university, to which all go who would gradu- 
ate with honours in the commercial world. 



BETTERMENT 177 

The Industrial Microcosm 

To describe all the various departments 
would show what a world within a world a 
modern industrial organisation really is. It is 
a State within a State, with a government some- 
thing between that of an army and that of a 
democratic country. This is as it should be, 
as it combines the advantages of both. The 
Suggestion System sets all brains working for 
the common good, and the officers' practice 
of taking the workers as much as possible into 
their confidence by announcing successes and 
all interesting events, and by calling meetings 
in cases of trouble, labour difficulties, etc., is 
thoroughly democratic. Meanwhile the organ- 
isation of a president, a commander-in-chief, 
with officers, long-headed generals under him, 
insures that unity of command and of action 
in cases of crisis, and that prudent keeping of 
their own counsel so necessary in difficult 
negotiations. 

The general superintendent has been re- 
placed by a factory committee; every depart- 
ment has its own organisation and its own 
head — the captain of a company of the rank 
and file. The Welfare Work has its own 
organisation and its own president, and is kept 



178 BETTERMENT 

quite distinct from the Labour Bureau, which 
deals with labour questions and difficulties 
raised by the Trade Unions. The heads of 
all the departments lunch together at the 
Officers' Club, so they are all kept in touch 
with one another, and can discuss any ques- 
tions which may arise. 

The Selling Force: An Intelligence 
Department 

The organisation of the Selling Force dis- 
plays the genius of the president perhaps more 
conspicuously than any other. It is without a 
rival in the ingenuity of its methods of getting 
the best possible work out of its agents. This 
wonderful force is an intelligence department 
in itself; it keeps its fingers upon the pulse of 
the buyers all over the world and can report 
upon their requirements. As we have seen, 
every salesman has to undergo a special course 
of instruction before he is allowed to practise. 
The training is graded, and the beginner pro- 
ceeds step by step, receiving every kind of help 
and encouragement by the way. 

The salesmen are frequently brought to- 
gether in conventions, sometimes at the factory 
and sometimes in their local districts. Every- 



BETTERMENT 179 

thing pertaining to their branch of the business 
is discussed, and suggestions made. There are 
also conventions of the district managers of 
agents, many coming great distances, mainly 
at the Company's expense. At these meetings 
the suggestions are written upon blackboards, 
so that the speakers can the better concentrate 
their attention upon them during the discus- 
sion. These blackboards remain with the sug- 
gestion and the name of the author, and prizes 
are given for the best ideas. Indeed the Sug- 
gestion System began in this way and was 
afterwards applied to the factory. 

As the organisation of the selling force and 
the methods employed have proved so extraor- 
dinarily effective they should be studied by all 
business men; so I append a detailed descrip- 
tion of it from the pen of an expert, Mr. 
Nat. F. Thomas, the assistant manager of the 
American Agencies at the National Cash Reg- 
ister, as given in the pamphlet entitled : " The 
National Cash Register Factory as seen by 
English Experts." ^ 

1 " When visitors are here at the factory, President Patter- 
son not infrequently tells them the best part of the Company 
is not in sight. He refers to the selling force, which so 
long had his personal attention and care. As we are often 
asked about this, a brief space is now allowed to a statement 
about this selling organisation. 

'* Mr. Nat. F. Thomas says : * All sales agents and salesmen 



180 BETTERMENT 

But no strict, business-like statement can 
give an idea of the hustling enthusiasm that 

of this Company for the United States and Canada are under 
the direction of Mr. Ditzler, Manager of the American 
Agencies, at the factory. I am his assistant. The various 
sales agents and salesmen number now about 425 ; and they 
and their employees are altogether about 800. 

"* We divide the United States and Canada into districts; 
there are thirteen of these districts, each having a District 
Manager upon salary paid by us. Each of these districts is 
divided into territories ; every sales agent has his own exclu- 
sive territory. If a register is sold by the factory direct, or by 
any other person, for use in the territory, the agent in whose 
territory it is to be used gets his commission upon it, a small 
commission only going to the man from elsewhere who makes 
the sale. 

" ' These sales agents and salesmen all pay their own ex- 
penses and receive as a compensation a contingent part, or 
commission on what they sell; this being the general and 
express contract provision of employment with these men. 
The Company, in its own interest, partly for reasons of good 
will, but more because these things are necessary in selling a 
specialty or product such as we make, does many things for 
its salesmen which it is not obligated to do by contract, viz : — 

" * I. They are brought together often in conventions at the 
factory and throughout the country, the expenses of which are 
largely borne by the Company. 

*' ' 2. Advertising of the most effective and costly kind is 
furnished them free, and with liberality on the part of the 
Company not shown by any other manufacturing concern. 

" ' 3. Schools for all their instruction are held at the factory, 
and the Company not only pays all this expense, but a large 
part of the agents* expenses during attendance. 

" * 4. Liberal prizes are given monthly for the quality and 
quantity of business secured, in addition to the commission 
paid. 

" * 5. The Company pays much money for valuable assist- 
ance to the selling force in supervision and special agents ; and 
employs instructors who at the Company's expense travel 



BETTERMENT 181 

IS infused into the competition between the 
agents of the different States and countries by 
means of a daily publication giving the score 
of each salesman to date. The whole thing is 
pictured as a stirring naval battle, and the 
customers captured are called " prisoners/' 
Here are the contents of the first page of this 
paper, called The N. C. R, Quota Number, 

over the country, aiding and instructing the agents in their 
business. No employee of the Company, from anywhere, 
ever comes to Dayton, as they frequently do in large numbers, 
except as the guest of the Company and at its expense while 
here. 

"*The Company gathers with labour and care the town 
populations of each district and the names and addresses of 
all the business men in every town or community, who might 
use a cash register. The Company then fixes, arbitrarily, the 
amount of business expected to be procured from each district, 
based on the amount of population in that territory. This 
we call the quota. At the first of each month the Company 
sets and publishes the amount of business which it expects to 
get in that territory during that month. Each day the Com- 
pany issues an " N. C. R. Quota Number," a statement giving 
each man's fixed quota and the percentage of quota which the 
agent or salesman has procured up to that date. These are 
published on sheets and mailed, so that every agent knows 
each day what is expected of him and of every other man in the 
district, and what he has accomplished or failed to accomplish 
toward securing the amount of business allotted to him. 

"'This N. C. R. Quota Number also shows the class of 
business he has procured and the amount of cash secured 
with each order. This Quota Number is the official organ of 
the sales department to the selling force. In it are published 
other items of information, or news, of comment and of com- 
mendation. These relate to whatever concerns the agent, and 
especially to matters of prizes and competitions among the 
selling force."* 



182 BETTERMENT 

for October 26, 1904. It is tastefully printed 
in colours and headed with a group of Ameri- 
can and British flags. 

" America Against the World 
" 67 Per Cent 

" Of the world's prisoners has 
been captured by the combined American fleet 
since the war began. On October 22, Conti- 
nental Europe had 5,903 prisoners under guard. 
Great Britain had 2,168 on its guardship, and 
the rest of the world had 1,800. The total 
number of captives was 9,871. On that date 
the United States and Canada had 20,049 
prisoners. That is 67 per cent, and we agreed 
to capture over 62 per cent, or surrender. 
We are ahead, but that is just the time the 
enemy fights the hardest. 
** Redouble your efforts. 

** We Must Keep in Front.'' 

In this way are the good-humour and the 
keen emulation kept up. National rivalries are 
played upon to the utmost. The British and 
the Germans are specially pitted against each 
other, and the Americans against both. Ban- 
ners of honour are awarded to the most suc- 
cessful, and are struggled for as keenly as 



BETTERMENT 188 

for any challenge shield or football trophy. 
Thus are the emulation and the interest stimu- 
lated and kept up, and the business progresses 
by leaps and bounds. 

Mr. W. C. Holman, an expert, writing in 
a Chicago magazine called System about this 
" S,ooo Brain-power organisation," as he aptly 
calls it, takes the average sale of typewriters 
by the ordinary salesman as a standard, and 
he finds that he sells about ten typewriters a 
month, sometimes a little more, at about $ioo 
each, while the average National Cash Register 
salesman will sell twenty cash registers at an 
average price of $150 each. One man actually 
sold, in one month, fifty-two registers at an 
average price of $165 each, and others did 
still better. This he attributes to the superior 
training of the salesmen and the wonderful 
perfection of the system. 

Throughout the whole of this marvellous 
organisation there is the same concentrated 
energy, strenuousness, alertness, and freshness 
of method; yet on visiting the works one is 
struck by the quiet and serenity, the smooth 
frictionless working, and the absence of bustle 
and noise. It comes as something of a sur- 
prise to the Englishman visiting the States to 
find that the hustling American, of whom we 



184 BETTERMENT 

hear so much, is by no means a bustling or a 
flurrying one. He is usually as deliberate in 
action as in speech, yet with quiet celerity he 
makes the business move at a breathless pace. 
The brain is the real power-house, and brain 
hustle makes no noise! 



CHAPTER XII 

FRUITAGE 

The great object lesson conveyed by the 
novel and up-to-date methods adopted in the 
Model Factory we have been considering is 
bearing abundant fruit. The methods are 
being largely adopted and the buildings copied ; 
although the plan of having the maximum of 
window space entails a considerable extra cost 
in warming the building3 in winter. But this 
is willingly borne for the sake of the bright 
and cheerful workshops which keep the workers 
in better humour and bring out their best 
work. 

It is fortunate that Mr. Patterson, to whose 
initiative these improvements are due, should 
have been touched by a large missionary spirit 
and a generous desire that the whole business 
world should benefit by the result of his suc- 
cessful experiments. He has lectured on these 
matters, especially on Welfare Work, with 
which I deal later, and he has called employers 
together, explained the new systems, and shown 



186 BETTERMENT 

that it would pay to adopt them. The objec- 
tion that this is only a form of advertising will 
not be made by anybody who knows the ex- 
traordinarily perfect means this Company has 
of getting directly at the limited class that use 
its product. At the close of one of his lectures 
someone with the dollar spirit said to Mr. Pat- 
terson : ** How are you going to get your pay, 
anyway ? There 's nobody in this audience 
who is going to buy a cash register." Mr. 
Patterson replied : " If there is any employer 
of labour here who will only adopt these ideas 
and brighten the lives of his workers I shall 
be paid a hundred times over for the trouble 
of giving this lecture." We may really take 
this statement at par. But if a second motive 
be sought, it may be found in the fact that all 
his new ideas were strenuously opposed by his 
brother and his whole entourage; his ideas 
were regarded as flighty and foolish, and the 
generous, not to say lavish, expenditure en- 
tailed was strongly opposed. His partner was 
an admirable business man of the " sound " 
orthodox type, but John had a touch of real 
genius. The ordinary business man may fly 
around on trains or motor-cars, but the genius, 
like the poet, rides a winged steed, and some- 
times soars to heights which sets the level- 




18T 

headed business man gasping for breath. But 
the future is always to the genius, and when 
genius is alHed with far-seeing business abiUty, 
the future is an immediate one and the results 
of prescience may be enjoyed during his life. 

The innovator having had such a hard battle 
to fight for his ideas, it is only natural that he 
should wish to demonstrate their triumph and 
their value. As this demonstration can be re- 
garded as quite complete only when others 
adopt the new methods, Mr. Patterson has 
taken pains to show what they are, and above 
all to show that the best methods pay the best. 
This is a lesson that needs to be dinned into 
John Bull's ears in and out of season. 

It is true that the English do some things 
better than any one else ; but on the whole they 
show a singular lack of alertness to seize the 
good in the new while it is new. Sometimes 
they wait to see what others are doing and then 
improve on their achievements; but too often 
by the time they have done so their rivals have 
moved on and they are still behind. Now, 
there is no nation in the world that has so 
much to lose, or which is likely to sufifer such 
grave disaster from falling behind, through 
clinging to old-fashioned ideas and methods, 
as Great Britain. 



188 . BETTERMENT 

British trade would have Httle to fear if all 
EngHsh manufacturers showed the alertness, 
resource, and enterprise displayed by Messrs. 
Lever Brothers, of Port Sunlight. Mr. W. H. 
Lever, who is the moving spirit of this world- 
wide organisation, had been twice in America 
the year I visited the works, and he was just 
starting again. He quickly adopted the Na- 
tional Cash Register Suggestion System, and 
any other features applicable to their business. 
The firm has an admirable monthly magazine 
called Progress, " Printed and published spe- 
cially as a means of intercommunication be- 
tween the Head Office and Works at Port 
Sunlight, the Branch Offices in the United 
Kingdom, Agencies, Oil Mills, and Affiliated 
Companies abroad." The magazine is full 
of good things, and is well illustrated. It is 
made especially interesting by the articles or 
lectures by Mr. Lever, who deals with the 
large questions between capital and labour in 
a large way. I shall refer to these views later. 
Messrs. Lever had to face the problem of 
housing their workpeople ; this they have done 
in splendid fashion, and they have built some- 
thing between a Model Village and a Garden 
City. This, and the fact that the works are 
thrown open to visitors, has made Port Sun- 



BETTERMENT 189 

light a place of pilgrimage, and it is visited by- 
thousands every year. 

The works of Messrs. Cadbury Brothers at 
Bourneville, near Birmingham — a *' Factory 
in a Garden " — form an industrial organisa- 
tion of which England may well be proud. 
The brothers have built a splendid model vil- 
lage, not only for their own workpeople, but 
for others who need good housing. The whole 
of this fine estate has been invested in trustees 
for the general benefit in perpetuity. This in- 
volves a principle of far-reaching importance 
which we shall consider later. But the chief 
claim of this philanthropic firm is their great 
welfare work to be described presently. 

Great Britain led the industrial world for 
many years, and her example stimulated the 
American and the Continental peoples, who 
have now bettered the instruction; and a re- 
turn wave of stimulation is awakening John 
Bull, whose phenomenal success had lulled him 
to sleep. In addition to those mentioned there 
are a great number of firms which are not 
only up to date, they are leading the way in 
their own lines. 

These higher developments of business meth- 
ods are of great interest and significance ; but 
the organisation of these vast industrial con- 



190 BETTERMENT 

cerns, so complex and comprehensive, so far- 
reaching in their world-wide ramifications, is 
being reduced to a science, and can be treated 
fully only by experts for experts. But among 
the novel institutions devised by " those amaz- 
ing Americans " is one that deserves a little 
chapter to itself. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THOSE AMAZING AMERICANS 

The alertness and resource of the Americans 
amaze even the up-to-date CosmopoHtan. One 
of the latest ideas is to treat industrial organ- 
isations as we have hitherto treated animal 
organisms, and when they are sick or ailing 
to provide them with a physician. There can 
be little doubt that the whole tendency of the 
larger and more complicated organisations, 
whether of nations, armies industrial or -mili- 
tary, combines, or the larger business concerns, 
is to approximate more and more closely to 
something roughly analogous to the human 
organism. There is the head, the centre of 
intelligence; there are the nerve centres and 
sub-centres; the nerves (telephone and tele- 
graph wires), arteries and veins (roads, rails, 
and trade routes along which circulate life- 
sustaining products). Keep this seemingly 
fanciful analogy in mind and it will throw a 
flood of light on these great organisations, 
show that they are liable to diseases analogous 



192 BETTERMENT 

to those of the human organism, and give 
luminous hints as to health and as to further 
extensions of organisations in their approxi- 
mation to living organisms. Some years ago 
in " The Organisation of Mankind " I 'urged 
that the mission of mankind is gradually to 
shape itself into a world-embracing organisa- 
tion roughly analogous to the model Nature 
has given us in her chief work — Man. If we 
but grasp this idea, and discern the resistless 
forces working for its realisation, it will be the 
expected which happens in all the larger events 
of the history we are making. The popular 
saying that '' it is always the unexpected that 
happens " gives the measure of our lack of 
insight. 

Be this as it may, the Business Doctoring 
Organisation meets a need, and has come to 
stay. The business physician is one of an 
association of experts whose work is to develop 
the latent earning power of any industrial, 
commercial, or other form of multiple activity. 
There are experts for every branch of a busi- 
ness; and when anything goes wrong they 
undertake to examine any business combina- 
tion, diagnose its economic conditions, stop the 
leaks, stimulate its excellences, and fully develop 
its latent earning power. Every department is 



BETTERMENT 193 

examined by the right expert, and all faulty 
methods are detected and put right. New pos- 
sibilities of development are pointed out and 
organised; atrophied branches are lopped off; 
suckers and unruly growths are pruned. By 
these means a business verging on bankruptcy 
may not only be saved, but may be made into 
a flourishing concern. 

When we think of the amazing complexity 
of any of the great business organisations, it 
is easy to see that the efficiency of some depart- 
ments may be nullified by inefficiency or faulty 
methods in others; and it requires the com- 
bined knowledge and wisdom of such an asso- 
ciation of experts to put things right. It is 
certainly a great gain for the business man to 
be able to get the aid of such an association of 
commercial physicians, and the success which 
has already attended this brilliant idea will 
ensure its further development. 

Leaving these higher industrial developments 
to experts and specialists, we shall turn our 
attention to Welfare Work, which appeals to 
the heads and hearts of all alike; and which 
is so significant, so full of hope and promise, 
that it is the most cheering movement that has 
yet illumined the industrial world. 



13 



PART III 

CHAPTER XIV 

WELFARE WORK 

So many hopeful and beneficent activities 
are covered by the term " Welfare Work '* 
that it is impossible to define it briefly. Mani- 
fold efforts are being made in many directions 
to moralise the relations between capital and 
labour. It is the efforts of the better class 
of employers to improve the conditions of 
labour ; to make them brighter, and more sani- 
tary; to house the workers better, to provide 
facilities for recreation and instruction, to en- 
courage thrift, to afford some share in the 
employer's prosperity, and in many other ways 
to improve the relations between employer and 
employed. 

Some of these efforts were prompted by 
philanthropic motives, some by religious feel- 
ings, and some by the necessity of finding 
house-room for the workers; others from the 
purely business idea of lessening the friction 
between capital and labour, and thus do 
something to decrease the number of strikes. 



BETTERMENT 196 

and the fear of strikes which has often such 
a paralysing effect on business enterprise. 
But whatever the motive, it is now apparent 
that it pays, that it is a good business invest- 
ment, and that it is appHcable to the small 
business and to the vast industrial concern 
having world-wide ramifications, to the old 
establishment and to the new. This is a mo- 
mentous discovery, as it ensures the general 
adoption of these enlightened methods, and 
those who do not adopt them will be regarded 
as behind the times. 

The Father of Welfare Work 

The twentieth century is re-discovering what 
was brought to light just one hundred years 
ago. Robert Owen was the great pioneer, 
and if he had not eclipsed his well-earned 
fame by his later socialistic experiments, which 
were uniformly unsuccessful, and had not in- 
curred odium through his secularism, he would 
have been recognised as the " master-type of 
the far-seeing and philanthropic captains of 
industry." He appeared in the darkest days 
of the industrial system, when the application 
of machinery caused human beings to be re- 
garded as machine-slaves, requiring less care 



196 BETTERMENT 

and attention than the metal monsters that 
demanded their abject service; when children 
not yet in their teens were hired out in gangs 
to ruthless task-masters who ground the poor 
little things into physical wrecks ; when drunk- 
enness, lying, and theft were so common as to 
drive well-meaning masters to despair. Into 
these nightmare conditions was Robert Owen 
born. He had little education except what 
he obtained through his passion for reading. 
An accident in childhood compelled him to be 
an ascetic in diet all his life, and to this cir- 
cumstance may be attributed the brilliancy and 
clearness of his commanding intellect. Be- 
ginning to earn his own living at nine, work- 
ing his way upwards in a self-helpful way that 
would have delighted the soul of Dr. Smiles, 
he became the master of spinning mills at 
twenty. He so improved the machinery and 
its product that his thread readily fetched fifty 
per cent above the ordinary market price. At 
the age of twenty-eight Owen was the man- 
ager of the New Lanark Twist Company, and 
he there began, under the most discouraging 
conditions imaginable, his work of human bet- 
terment. The population was in a horrible 
state, — drunken, immoral, and thieving; liv- 
ing in hovels amid dungheaps. Owen was 



BETTERMENT 197 

regarded as a foreigner, with dislike and dis- 
trust. He set to work with tact, patience, and 
indomitable perseverance, though the dislike 
and suspicion of the men hampered every 
move. At last there came a sudden cotton 
famine; Owen had to stop the mills, but in- 
stead of discharging his hands he kept them 
at work cleaning the machinery, and gave them 
full wages until the embargo was taken off 
the cotton and they were able to start work 
again. This master-stroke broke down the 
workers' distrust and suspicion and won their 
confidence. Then his philanthropic work pros- 
pered as never before. He wrote, lectured, 
instituted infant schools with a method which 
to some extent anticipated Froebel and his 
kindergartens. By most ingenious means he 
cured the men of their thieving propensities, 
lessened intemperance, and made a model fac- 
tory in a model village. It became famous, 
and visitors flocked from all parts of the world, 
as they do to-day to the National Cash Reg- 
ister, Port Sunlight, and other Meccas of the 
industrial world. Owen was consulted by 
statesmen, and was largely instrumental in 
getting the earlier Factory Acts passed. Then, 
at the height of his fame, and usefulness, he 
retired from business to carry out his futile 



198 BETTERMENT 

socialistic schemes which were hundreds of 
years before their time. This and his secular- 
ist teachings, which brought against him the 
dead weight of religious prejudice, completely 
eclipsed the grand work he had done for 
human betterment. 

Owen retired from business in 1829, and 
shortly after that patronal institutions began 
to arise in the mining districts of France, and 
ten or fifteen years later Welfare institutions 
began to grow in Germany. These institu- 
tions have taken a great variety of forms, have 
spread and grown in extent and variety, until 
at the present time there are several plethoric 
journals devoted almost entirely to Welfare 
Work. These institutions began with such firms 
as Krupp, of the colossal steel works, from the 
necessity of housing the workers, then from the 
desirability of encouraging thrift and provid- 
ing against sickness, accidents, old age, and 
the various vicissitudes incidental to the wage- 
worker. One of the most helpful institutions 
evolved is the Workmen's Councils, in which 
the employers have a minority representation. 

In France the institutions have developed 
on somewhat similar lines, but with even more 
paternalism. This has caused trouble, and 
some of the worst strikes have arisen through 



BETTERMENT 199 

these institutions. They have already been 
modified and improved by the experience 
thus gained; but the ever-growing tendencies 
towards socialism are changing the feelings of 
the workers both in Germany and in France, 
and will necessitate many more changes in the 
future. The temperament and the conditions 
of the workers both in France and Germany 
differ so much from those of British and 
American workmen that I shall confine myself 
mainly to Welfare institutions in England and 
in the United States. 

About twenty-five years after Robert Owen 
retired from business Samuel Morley at Not- 
tingham and London introduced some begin- 
nings of Welfare Work. Ten years later Sir 
Titus Salt, a great philanthropist and manu- 
facturer who first made alpaca fabrics in Eng- 
land, founded *and built the famous model 
industrial village, Saltaire, near Bradford in 
Yorkshire. Here, at a cost of about a million 
dollars (£200,000), he introduced all the finest 
features of Welfare Work which were after- 
wards developed in Germany and France. But 
they were founded on a philanthropic rather 
than on a business basis, and after the death 
of the noble founder in 1877 his splendid in- 
stitutions decayed. 



200 BETTERMENT 

After Sir Titus Salt began to realise his 
schemes for human betterment the good work 
was taken up successively by Smieton and 
Sons, of Dundee ; Hazell, Watson, and Viney, 
printers and publishers ; Cassell and Company, 
the great publishers; Tangyes, engineers of 
Birmingham; the proprietors of The Graphic, 
etc.; the Clarendon Press, Oxford; Messrs. 
Fry Brothers of Bristol, and Messrs. Cadbury 
of Bournemouth, the latter firms being the 
well-known cocoa and chocolate manufac- 
turers; and Messrs. Lever Brothers of Port 
Sunlight. Many other firms have taken up 
one or more features of Welfare Work ; some 
from religious motives, others from philan- 
thropic, and others from purely business 
motives; but there is in England no general 
organised effort to urge the necessity or the 
desirability of it, and no conferences for the 
comparing of notes by those engaged in this 
hopeful movement. 

Great Britain greatly needs an institution 
like The National Civic Federation of New 
York, organised for industrial conciliation, and 
holding conferences to promote it. One de- 
partment of this valuable institution is devoted 
entirely to Welfare Work, and to its courteous 
and extremely able secretary, Miss Gertrude 



BETTERMENT 201 

Beeks, I am greatly indebted for information 
about the movement in the United States. 



Welfare Work in America 

Employers seem to have been rather late in 
the field with Welfare institutions in the United 
States ; but having taken it up they are devel- 
oping it with characteristic energy and thor- 
oughness, and will soon lead the world in this 
as in so many other things. 

In March of last year (1904) a conference 
was held on this subject at the Waldorf- 
Astoria, New York, and Mr. H. H. Vreeland, 
the chairman, in opening the proceedings, 
said: 

" Believing that its efforts to better the rela- 
tions between employers and employees would 
be materially aided by the promotion of what 
is called ' Welfare Work,' the National Civic 
Federation recently authorised the organisa- 
tion of a department for that purpose. 

" The first meeting of the Committee ap- 
pointed to organise the Welfare Department 
was held in January, and largely attended by 
the representative employers from various sec- 
tions of the country who compose the Com- 
mittee. It developed that it was the first time 



202 BETTERMENT 

that employers who were giving especial con- 
sideration to the welfare of their employees 
had been brought together, and that each one 
had an idea that this welfare work was an 
individual effort on his part in his particular 
locality, and that he was rather like the mole 
groping in a dark passage, and when he came 
to the light he found that he was not ' it,' but 
that there was a great deal of this work being 
done throughout the United States both by 
corporations and individuals." 

Nearly all the earlier efforts were of a phil- 
anthropic nature and were begun before labour 
troubles forced men to face these problems in 
a business-like way. Some of these pioneer 
efforts had splendid results, bettering the con- 
ditions of the workers, beautifying their sur- 
roundings, and adding noble institutions to 
the towns in which the works were situated. 
Among the more successful of the earlier phil- 
anthropic welfare institutions may be men- 
tioned those in connection with the Waltham 
Watch Factory at Waltham, Mass.; Oliver 
Ames and Sons, North Easton, Mass. ; Cheney 
Brothers, the great silk manufacturers, of 
South Manchester, Conn.; the Willimantic 
Thread Company, Conn.; Warner Brothers, 
Bridgeport; the Solvey Process Company, 



BETTERMENT 203 

Syracuse, N. Y. ; and others.^ The model 
town for their workers built by the Pullman's 
Palace Car Company is one of the largest and 
best known of all these experiments ; but there 
were inherent defects in the management which 
led to trouble. This we will consider later. 

After the speech of the Chairman of the 
Conference on Welfare Work, part of which 
I have quoted, the gathering resolved itself 
into an " experience meeting," showing the 
work done and the experience gained by a 
great number of firms, representing nearly all 
forms of industry. These gave rise to some 
instructive discussions by the way. But before 
considering these I think it will be best to take 
one typical case and follow it up from its 
simple beginnings to its present high develop- 
ments. In selecting a case for illustration I 
shall take one in which the philanthropic 
promptings have been subordinated to business 
principles, as that is more consistent with the 
dignity of labour than purely philanthropic 
efforts that may smack of charity. The self- 
respecting worker resents charity even while 
he may honour the kindly spirit that prompts 

1 See Professor N. P. Oilman's A Dividend to Labour. 
Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston and New York ; and Mac- 
millan & Co., London. 



£04 BETTERMENT 

it. When splendid gifts are made to communi- 
ties of workers they are apt to be looked at 
askance, and the men think they are expected 
to be profoundly grateful for what they in 
their heart of hearts regard as having come 
out of their own pockets ; this causes suspicion 
and distrust. Another reason for putting these 
things on a purely business basis is that bene- 
factions to workers are apt to be regarded by 
the Trade Unions as attempts to lessen their 
power over the men. All such organisations 
thrive on grievances; to remove them is the 
ostensible reason of their existence. So when 
employers begin voluntarily to remove these 
causes of complaint it takes the wind out of 
the sails of the Unions, so to speak; but the 
Union men are so attached to their organisa- 
tion and the power it gives that they often 
oppose the removal of the very grievance they 
were organised to remove! For this reason 
Socialists and extreme Labour politicians are 
often more opposed to Liberals who would 
remove grievances gradually than they are to 
Conservatives who maintain the grievances 
that strengthen Socialistic and Labour Organ- 
isations. For these and various other reasons 
that cause men to act paradoxically it is better 
to keep welfare work on a frankly business 



BETTERMENT 205 

basis or on the grounds of justice or expe- 
diency, and not on benevolence. So I shall take 
for my illustration the work of one of the 
vice-presidents of the Welfare Department of 
the National Civic Federation which complies 
with these conditions. It is the best of its kind, 
and it can be picturesquely stated. 

I therefore take the case of what is play- 
fully called " The Five P's " — President Pat- 
terson's Plan of Paying Philanthropy — and 
it will enable me to complete my sketch of the 
'' Model Factory of the World," the National 
Cash Register. Although many others are 
doing splendid Welfare Work, no one has done 
so much as Mr. Patterson to force it on the 
attention of employers, to show the wisdom 
of it, and to point out that it is to their interest 
to do as much as possible for the benefit of 
their employees, because it is their duty, and 
above all because it pays. 



CHAPTER XV* 

" WELFARE WORK IS PRACTICAL RELIGION " 

In one of his talks Mr. John H. Patterson 
said: 

" I think it was Judge Parker who once said 
that ' everything that happens to you and looks 
bad can be turned to advantageous results ' if 
we trace them out. Shortly after my wife 
died I began to see many things in the factory 
among the women employed that made me 
anxious to improve their condition. What I 
did in this direction was because I felt it was 
right, and the business of the factory improved 
in consequence. I turned out early one morn- 
ing and mingled with the factory hands on 
their way to work. It was dark and they 
did n't recognise me. It was dark and cold, 
a rainy grey morning. I walked up with them 
and when I got to the factory it was all dark. 
The place was cold and miserable. There was 
no heat in the rooms, and the girls groped 
their way upstairs, tired, discouraged, naturally 
miserable in spirit, totally unfit for work. 
How could they feel otherwise in such a place 



BETTERMENT 207 

as that? So I went to the man in charge of 
the lighting plant and I ordered him to turn 
on the lights fifteen minutes earlier in the 
morning. He looked at me with pity. He 
was sorry for me. It would cost so much 
more, it would be such a waste of light, the 
men would have to be paid extra to come 
earlier. Never mind, pay them, but let 's have 
this place heated and lighted when the em- 
ployees come to work. 

" Then I ordered the elevator to be started 
earlier, so that the women would not have to 
climb dark stairs to their work. The next 
morning when they came everything had been 
done as I ordered, and they looked surprised 
and pleased of course. The result was that 
they did better work, and, as we were turning 
out an expert machine, it meant so many more 
sales for us. Machines had been coming back 
to us, and I felt that this ought not to be if 
the work was properly done. A favourite way 
most workmen have of opposing new and better 
ways suggested to them is to say, * Well, this 
is the same.' That is just the best reason 
in the world why we should do better than 
they do." 

That is the excelsior spirit which now thrills 
through every nerve of the vast National Cash 



208 BETTERMENT 

Register organisation. As this work is really 
the humanising of industrial conditions it is 
more in keeping with the theme, I think, to 
adhere to the personal element and narratives 
than to cold abstract statements. In Mr. Pat- 
terson's case one step led to another. 

On one occasion the factory was partly par- 
alysed by several of the most highly trained 
and skilful girls leaving just for the sake of 
change. This caused a loss of $250 a day 
until others could be trained to do the work. 
This led Mr. Patterson to inquire into the 
causes of such unprofitable happenings in the 
hope of finding a remedy. The search was 
conducted with his usual energy and thorough- 
ness, and led to many discoveries. He found 
that among the girls a petty jealousy of one 
another's personal adornments was the source 
of much discontent. Some were better and 
more prettily dressed than others, making the 
unadorned ones feel and look shabby. This 
was overcome by supplying them with big 
white aprons which covered the dresses and 
reduced, or rather elevated, all to democratic 
uniformity. These aprons are kept scrupu- 
lously clean at the Company's expense, and they 
give the girls a very bright and business-like 
appearance. 



BETTERMENT 209 

On another occasion the president saw one 
of the girls trying to heat up a little cold 
coffee over a radiator. " We all know/' said 
he when narrating the event, " what warmed- 
up coffee tastes like. I knew that the officers, 
with whom I talked everything over, would 
never approve of giving them coffee. So as 
I was then about to pay $500 for a new horse 
I gave up the idea and spent the money in 
buying coffee for the girls. * I suppose you 
want to give them cream and sugar with it,' 
said one of the officers a bit scornfully, and I 
replied, ' Yes,' and so it grew." 

They were soon after provided with a spa- 
cious dining-room, in which they are supplied 
with excellent and well-cooked food at cost. 
The lunch-room is bright and cheerful; the 
snowy table linen, the flowers, and the fine 
dinner service helping the general effect. A 
piano is provided for the benefit of the girls 
during their noon recess of one hour and 
twenty minutes. The dining-room is now 
managed by a committee appointed by the girls 
themselves, and all complaints are made to this 
committee, which may be changed as often as 
they like. This is an admirable plan, since if 
the conduct of affairs is not right they have 
only themselves to blame. All the trouble is 
14 



210 BETTERMENT 

thus taken off the shoulders of the Company, 
and the girls obtain experience in managing 
their own affairs. The whole plan is con- 
ducive to their self-respect and their dignity, 
— both valuable assets. 

On another occasion, as Mr. Patterson was 
going his rounds, one of the gir!s fainted, and 
there was nothing but the floor or two chairs 
for the girl to lie on. This at once led to the 
institution of a rest room, comfortably fur- 
nished, to which any one feeling faint or tired 
can retire at once, without any formality, and 
rest. This was a daring experiment, but the 
trust in the girls has never been abused, and 
there is no skulking. They bought a piano 
for it themselves, and after lunch they play 
and read and enjoy themselves fully. 

To avoid the intense discomfort of over- 
crowded cars, and the general crush of over 
3,000 men and women hurrying to the factory 
at the same hour, it was determined to allow 
the girls to come to work one hour after the 
men and to leave ten minutes earlier. In addi- 
tion to this a special service of tram-cars was 
arranged for the girls so that they could come 
and go in comfort. As every step taken 
brought encouraging results, the women were 
given a Saturday half -holiday and a full day 



BETTERMENT 211 

once a month. These concessions reduced the 
working day to eight hours ; they received the 
same wages and did more and better work. 
So, as Mr. Patterson says, " It pays to do 
right every time." 

There are now at the factory specially fitted- 
up wards with trained nurses and all medical 
appliances for cases of illness or accident. A 
physician from the Battle Creek Sanitarium 
is always on the spot, and he has many of 
Dr. Kellogg's ingenious appliances to carry 
out his advanced and rational methods. 

When the great Exposition at St. Louis 
opened Mr. Patterson at once saw its immense 
educational possibilities, and, true to his prin- 
ciple, that " Business is Teaching '' and teacn- 
ing is business, he was anxious that all his 
employees should go. To this end the works 
were shut down for a fortnight, and all were 
urged to go. In some characteristic " talks '* 
they were told what to see, how to see it, and 
how to keep themselves fit. The exhibition 
was described to them as an epitome of the 
world's best and most beautiful work. They 
were especially urged to study what had been 
accomplished in education, that they might on 
their return do all they could to improve the 
educational facilities of their own town. They 



gl2 BETTERMENT 

were urged to seize on all ideas that would 
help to improve their work and their position 
and enable them to help forward the general 
betterment of the world's workers. 

Over five hundred of the " Woman's Cen- 
tury Club " girls went to the World's Fair, 
the Company paying the greater part of the 
expenses for the week. The entire affair was 
a masterpiece of good management and organ- 
isation. A committee was sent to St. Louis 
in advance to make all the necessary arrange- 
ments for housing, feeding, and sight-seeing. 
The committee divided and explored every 
part of the Exhibition and visited the multi- 
tudinous side-shows, so that nothing was over- 
looked. Their several reports were printed 
and distributed among the girls before they 
started for St. Louis, so that they knew what 
was to be seen and the best way to get to it. 
As a result of this wise foresight their five 
days at the Fair were as profitable as a fort- 
night of hap-hazard sight-seeing. Everything 
was done that human foresight could suggest 
for their pleasure and safety.^ 

^ I cannot refrain from quoting a few words from one of 
the letters describing this memorable trip which were after- 
wards printed in the N. C. R. Woman's Welfare. They are 
all admirably written, and show the high intelligence of the 
writers. I quote the letter of Miss Frances Gregg ; ** I shall 



BETTERMENT 213 

The men were also assisted and encouraged 
to go, and they organised a great excursion. 
They were all received by President Francis 
and the Commissioners. There were other 
receptions and various functions. Educational 
trips of all kinds have always been in high 
favour with Mr. Patterson. He declared that 
to send his employees to the World's Fair was 
an education and an inspiration that could only 
have the most beneficial effect on his workers, 
who would get new ideas and do better work. 

The men's requirements have received the 
same thoughtful attention as those of the girls. 
They have their dining-room managed by their 
own committee. An evening meal is provided 
at the Company's expense for those working 
over-time. 

There is a Cooking School for the benefit 
of the women employees, and all the appoint- 
never forget my first impression of it all. So wonderful ! So 
stupendous ! It covers 1,240 acres and cost $50,000,000, there 
being 500 distinct buildings. Fifteen of them are giants, form- 
ing a fan-shaped picture. As I walked up the plaza adjoining 
the main entrance and saw the immense white palaces loom- 
ing up before me, the artistic bridges spanning the lagoon, 
and the beautiful cascades in the distance surrounded by the 
* Terrace of States,' it all formed a picture which I shall never 
forget. I was thrilled, and I simply stood still, clenched my 
fists, and drank it all in. How I wished everybody might see 
it 1 " There is a world of meaning in that rapt gaze, and in 
the clenched hands ; it shows the receptive soul rising to a 
great occasion. 






214 BETTERMENT 

merits and facilities of a large up-to-date 
kitchen are placed at the service of the stu- 
dents. The ablest exponents of scientific cook- 
ing are employed to teach the best methods 
of preparing economic and nourishing meals 
at home. In the various kitchens of the Com- 
pany there are two classes of young women 
engaged weekly in learning the fine art of 
cooking and serving tasteful dishes. 

Cleanliness is a basic principle of the Na- 
tional Cash Register. Everything in and 
around the factory is scrupulously clean. All 
the employees are provided with warm and 
other baths, and are allowed twenty minutes 
of the Company's time — twice a week in 
summer and once a week in winter — to enjoy 
them. This idea is as ingenious as it is gen- 
erous, removing, as it does, all possible excuses 
for declining the order of the bath. 

The girls are provided with comfortable 
chairs and footrests while at their work. Miss 
Dwight of New York, a most able exponent 
of physical culture, was called to instruct them 
in the best way to sit, stand, walk, work, or 
rest so as to avoid back-aches and to get the 
maximum of results with the least expenditure 
of energy. 

Each morning at ten and each afternoon at. 



BETTERMENT 215 

three o'clock a recess is given to all the young 
women. This rest-time is generally spent in 
calisthenic exercises and other forms of health- 
ful recreation. 

This betterment work has made the factory 
very popular with those seeking employment, 
and the Company has a great number of the 
better class of girls anxious to be taken on. 
Thus the female employees at the National 
Cash Register have been transformed from the 
ordinary coarse factory girls to bright, attrac- 
tive young ladies, who constantly remind one 
of Ian Maclaren's description of the American 
girls who once formed his audience : " Every 
one as sharp as a needle, and as pretty as a 
flower." This happy transformation has been 
brought about by welfare work and by the 
beneficent influence of a wise forewoman. The 
later detail is so interesting and instructive that 
I give in full a note by Miss Ella M. Haas, 
which is at once a history of the change, and 
a statement of the right rules to be followed 
in similar cases. 

What a Forewoman can do 

" When I first came to the factory, fifteen 
years ago, there was only one department that 



216 BETTERMENT 

employed women — the Indicator — and I was 
the only woman in the Printing Department. 
The young women then in the employ of the 
Company were very different from those we 
have to-day. Everything that was coarse 
seemed to predominate among them. They 
were of such a type that the superintendent 
said to me one day : * You do not want to 
spend your noon hours with those girls; they 
will be of no benefit to you. Bring a good 
book to work with you and stay in this depart- 
ment at noon.' Although I felt that my pres- 
ence in the department at noon was somewhat 
of an encumbrance to the men, I did as I was 
told, because I really did not care to associate 
with that class of girls. 

'* Many of the girls were loud and coarse 
in their manners, slovenly in dress, and care- 
less in all their actions. Naturally, they were 
indifferent about their work and lax in their 
behaviour about the workroom. The depart- 
ment was disorderly, the women were unruly, 
and the management finally decided to try what 
a forewoman could do to improve matters. 
The Company was really ashamed of the con- 
dition of affairs, and also felt that the work 
of the department was being hindered. So 
one day the superintendent asked me if I 



BETTERMENT 217 

could recommend some one to take charge of 
the women's department. I recommended a 
woman who had never had any experience 
with that kind of work, but who had a good 
strong character and some business abihty, and 
was very firm. 

" She undertook the work, determined to 
better conditions, and the firm gave her the 
right of way. The women understood per- 
fectly why a forewoman was put over them, 
and at first resented it. A few of them had 
to be replaced in order to preserve discipline. 
From the first the forewoman insisted upon 
clean language, neatness in dress, and proper 
behaviour towards the men whose work 
brought them into the department. She took 
pains, however, not to seem domineering or 
tyrannical. She called the young women to- 
gether frequently to explain what she wanted 
of them. She appealed to their womanly 
nature and reasoned with them. Often she 
took the girls aside privately and talked with 
them. 

" It took time, of course, to effect much of 
a change. Gradually, however, the department 
became more orderly, the work went more 
smoothly, and, best of all, the standard of 
behaviour was raised. They were quieter at 



S18 BETTERMENT 

their work than formerly and more attentive 
to it. They were neater in appearance, and 
the whole department was a cleaner, more 
attractive place. There were less and less loud 
talking and coarse laughter. Soon it came to 
be understood that a young woman must meet 
certain requirements in order to be employed 
at all. 

" The woman who brought this change has 
this to say about her work : 

'' ' I do not think that a woman can afford 
to take such a position simply to be a boss. 
To be a forewoman means much more. Girls 
must be reasoned with, not driven. Their dis- 
positions must be studied. If a girl feels badly, 
let the forewoman sit down and talk with her 
in a tactful way. A little word of encourage- 
ment or a little attention means much to a girl 
with a heavy heart. In this way the fore- 
woman gains the confidence and good-will of 
the young women and can approach them on 
subjects which a foreman would not dare to 
take up with them. 

*' ' Such work is not all philanthropy by any 
means. It has a practical business side. If 
a forewoman wishes to raise the standard of 
work in her department and increase the out- 
put her hands are crippled unless she has the 



iBETTERMENT 219 

co-operation of her employees. By extending 
sympathy to them and showing that she is their 
friend, instead of a slave-driver or boss, she 
wins a loyalty and support which can be ob- 
tained in no other way. To insist upon neat- 
ness of appearance in the workroom is not 
altogether a sentimental idea either. A slov- 
enly girl always does slovenly work. The 
more we insist upon carefulness in dress, the 
surer we can be that the quality of the work 
is going to improve.' 

" Many people think that when a girl enters 
a factory she leaves part of her womanliness 
behind. It rests with the forewoman to show 
that this need not be the case. A girl can be 
neat in appearance and ladylike in behaviour 
in a factory as well as in the home. One thing 
that has helped us a great deal has been the 
separation of the men and women in different 
departments. This cannot be done in all lines 
of work, but where it cannot be done there 
should be provision made for the young women 
to spend their noon hours by themselves. One 
of the first things done here, long before any 
one thought of a dining-room, was to forbid 
the young women going into the men's depart- 
ments at noon. I am positive this helped to 
keep down a number of coarse features that 



\ 



S20 BETTERMENT 

would have developed in the lives of our young 
women. To-day our young women are re- 
spected because they respect themselves. We 
have proved in our factory that woman can 
go into the business world and retain all her 
womanliness. Girls of good breeding and edu- 
cation are glad to work here because it is so.'' 

As outside expert evidence I will quote from 
the report of Mr. Robert Holmshaw of the 
Sheffield Cutlery Council, a member of the 
Mosely Commission, who says : " At the Na- 
tional Cash Register Works at Dayton there 
are over 300 girls employed, many of them 
graduates of the high schools, and, judging 
from their many interests, as set forth in a 
magazine edited by themselves, all are girls of 
superior attainments. The conditions under 
which these girls work are ideal, and their 
wages, we are told, run up to $10 per week." 

There are surely ** practical pointers " here 
for our business men. 

From the early beginning welfare work has 
spread in various ways. Dancing classes and 
receptions are held twice each week in a spa- 
cious hall in one of the Company's buildings. 
There are classes especially for children on 
Saturday afternoons, and they are taught danc- 
ing, deportment and etiquette, and other graces. 



BETTERMENT 221 

These children, it must be remembered, are 
not employed in the factory, but belong to 
employees and their neighbours; and this is 
part of the systematic effort to extend these 
benefits beyond the bounds of the factory and 
its employees. 

The adult classes have greatly developed 
and their general assemblies are often elaborate 
and beautiful functions. *' The object of the 
classes,'' Miss Buck tells us, *' is not alone to 
teach dancing for the pleasure derived from 
it, but to provide an easy way for the men and 
women of the factory to meet under pleasant 
circumstances. Though they work under the 
same roof and for the same cause, the men 
and women have as a whole little chance of 
meeting each other socially. . . . The women 
are formally introduced and are themselves 
responsible for the dignity and general appear- 
ance of the class." Dancing is regarded as 
one of the best exercises for teaching ease and 
grace of manner. 

Nearly a thousand of the employees ride to 
and fro from their work on bicycles, and it is 
an extremely pretty sight at the close of the 
day's work to see them darting off in all direc- 
tions, more like exuberant school boys and 
girls than workers after a day's toil. There 



m^ BETTERMENT 

is an extensive wheel house in which the steel 
steeds are stabled during working hours, and 
there is a compressed air station for the rapid 
inflation of the tires. 

Mental as well as physical welfare claims 
the attention of the Company. " At the 
N. C. R. House — under the supervision of 
a resident directress employed by the Company 
— classes are held in art needlework, history, 
English, Spanish, stenography, wood carving, 
and a number of manual-training studies." 

Some years ago a building near the factory 
was about to be turned into a drinking saloon. 
Mr. Patterson secured it and converted it into 
an undenominational Sunday-school, open to 
all children of the neighbourhood. " Our chil- 
dren," he said, " can never rise much above 
the general level of the other children with 
whom they play. To raise our people we must 
raise all those among whom they dwell." In 
this school the most ingenious methods are 
used to interest, brighten, and instruct the little 
ones. The stereopticon plays a conspicuous 
part; the Company possesses a magnificent 
collection of magic-lantern slides and has a 
special department for preparing them. 



BETTERMENT mS 

Boys' Gardens 

One of the happiest inspirations concerned 
itself with the boys of the neighbourhood. 
SHdertown close by was the worst part of 
Dayton, and suffered badly from " Hooligans," 
'' Larrikins," or boys of an age when they are 
said to be in the Red Indian stage of develop- 
ment, when the greatest misery to the greatest 
number is the main plank in their philosophy. 
Respectable folk would not live there if they 
could get away. Then came Mr. Patterson's 
happy thought. Three of the worst ring- 
leaders were induced to leave for distant 
climes ; Mr. Patterson then secured a number 
of acres of land in SHdertown and had it 
divided up into about a hundred garden plots, 
ID feet wide by 170 feet in length. The boys 
were induced to cultivate them. A competent 
instructor was engaged who acts as superin- 
tendent and cultivates a model plot to serve as 
an object lesson; but the boys were allowed 
to follow out their own ideas. The Company 
supplies them, free of charge, with tools, seeds, 
slips, bulbs, water, and everything necessary 
for successful working. 

To stimulate their interest cash prizes 
amounting altogether to $50 in gold are given, 



224 BETTERMENT 

and at the end of the two years' course the 
boys are awarded diplomas, which are valu- 
able recommendations in case they seek em- 
ployment later at the factory. 

By working one hour in the morning and 
two in the afternoon the boys manage to raise 
quite a handsome crop of fruit and vegetables 
for home consumption, and make a little pocket 
money by selling the surplus. The annual 
awarding of the prizes is quite a grand func- 
tion for the little fellows. They are invited 
to a fine dinner at the Officers' Club by the 
president, who distributes beautifully engraved 
bronze medals to the prize-winners and di- 
plomas to those who have completed the 
course. 

The Company states that the whole cost is 
so small, compared with the very great bene- 
fits to all concerned, " that a similar educa- 
tional feature could be successfully conducted 
with most beneficial results by any small com- 
munity." The effect on the morale of the boys, 
and indeed the whole neighbourhood, is such 
that property has increased 300 per cent in 
value. 



BETTERMENT a«6 

Bettering and Beautifying 

In the early days the factory was sur- 
rounded by the usual miscellaneous collections 
of rubbish, making a forlorn and unsightly 
waste. The innovating spirit moved over this 
chaos and turned it into a smiling creation. 
A famous landscape gardener was sent for; 
the rubbish disappeared, and the whole of the 
surroundings were artistically transformed, 
until the factory was set in a constellation of 
" stars of the earth " — as flowers may be 
called. 

But a thing of beauty should radiate beauty 
and transform everything around it. The un- 
tidy cottages and rubbish-filled yards of the 
immediate neighbourhood looked more un- 
sightly than ever. So the Company offered 
prizes for the best kept gardens and the pret- 
tiest floral arrangements for hiding everything 
that was ugly. Where people could not afford 
to remove tumbledown fences and to lay out 
and plant gardens the Company did it for 
them in artistic style, free of cost, and then 
handed them over to the owners to keep in 
order. This they do most loyally, and the 
whole place is embowered in greenery. As 
prizes are also given for window-gardening, 
15 



^26 BETTERMENT 

one sees a picture at every turn, and in sum- 
mer the air is filled with the perfume of 
flowers. This is surely making the desert 
rejoice and blossom as the rose. 

Self-Help Clubs 

The rapid growth of all these new move- 
ments necessitated the organisation of a Wel- 
fare Department with its own officials. Mr. 
C. T. Fugitt, the present head of the depart- 
ment, and his assistants devote the whole of 
their time to this work alone. At the recent 
Conference on Welfare Work in New York 
all the speakers agreed that wherever there 
were many employees it was necessary to 
have a social secretary or a welfare secretary 
to devote his or her whole time to it. Several 
clubs have been formed for boys and girls. 
There are weekly meetings for gymnastic ex- 
ercises. The boys have a brigade, and the 
club members hold weekly meetings which are 
conducted upon strict parliamentary lines. A 
splendid fire brigade has been organised, and 
there are periodical drills so that the whole of 
the employees know how to act in case of an 
outbreak. 

A Men's Welfare League has been formed, 
the objects of which are thus stated: 



BETTERMENT 227 

" First : To do Welfare Work for factory 
employees, to the end that the working con- 
ditions of factory people may be improved. 

" Second : To secure the greatest possible 
efficiency in our municipal, county, and State 
offices; to assist in improving and extending 
our system of public education, so that we 
shall have the best possible public-school sys- 
tem; to aid in improving our present system 
of taxation; and generally to do all things 
possible to build up the mental, moral, and 
physical conditions of the people of our city, 
irrespective of political, religious, or other 
affiliations. It shall be our duty to secure the 
best results possible at the least expense.'' 

The entrance of a large body of earnest 
men, inspired with this soaring excelsior spirit 
into the field of parochial politics, sweeping 
aside all narrow religious and party differ- 
ences, going straight for human betterment, 
efficiency with economy, is a factor of immense 
significance; and if this splendid lead is gen- 
erally followed it will do something to purify 
party politics and prevent the awful abuse of 
time, money, and morals by senseless friction 
and mercenary self-seeking. This new league 
has already frustrated a scheme that was a 
real menace to civic purity. 



228 BETTERMENT 

For the purpose of bettering educational 
methods a committee was appointed to visit 
the most famous schools in IndianapoHs, where 
they acquired volumes of valuable knowledge 
and new inspirations. On their return they 
quickly set to work and proposed to the man- 
agers of an adjacent school — the Wyoming 
Street School — to introduce some of the new 
features. On receiving consent they organised 
a grand fete which, with the help of tradesmen 
to whom they made appeal, brought in funds 
sufficient to equip completely a Cooking School 
and a Gymnasium. 

A committee was sent around the States to 
study all that was doing in welfare work in 
order to improve their own methods. Thus 
the good work goes on, and these energetic 
folk with their fine inspiration will not rest 
until they have made the " Gem City " worthy 
of its name and brought it up to the level of 
the Model Factory. 

The men have their playing fields, their 
base and football teams, their gun club, and 
a number of other desirable organisations. 

The women are equally energetic and pro- 
gressive. They have formed the Woman's 
Century Club. " It is a literary club and is 
federated not only with the State, but with 



BETTERMENT 229 

the national organisation. It has 500 mem- 
bers and carries out each year a programme 
worthy of any club. It publishes, * in the 
interest of the working women of the world/ 
a magazine called Woman's Welfare, This 
magazine is published quarterly, and because 
of its wide circulation has done much to in- 
duce other employers to adopt these methods 
of making more pleasant the working hours 
of their people." 

This is a modest understatement of the case, 
as the energy and intelligence displayed are 
remarkable. It is evident, too, that the presi- 
dent has infused his own missionary spirit 
into the whole of the welfare workers, as they 
are striving to benefit the bread-winners all 
over the world. 

A Club Hous^e for Wage-earning Women 

This might be called a Home-Club, as the 
leading idea is to get rid of all *' Institution- 
alism " and make it as home-like as possible. 
The great housing problem has not yet come 
up for solution at Dayton, as most of the men 
own their own houses. But the case of work- 
ing women who have no homes is different, 
as they want something more home-like than 



^30 BETTERMENT 

the public boarding-houses, and they find it 
difficult to get suitable lodgings with private 
families. 

The Woman's Century Club grappled with 
this difficulty with characteristic energy. Need- 
ing a club house for many purposes, they took 
a house and engaged a matron. Then the girls 
threw themselves with enthusiasm into the 
work of furnishing it; they made everything 
that came within their range, and the depart- 
ments vied with one another in their contri- 
butions. The house was soon fully furnished, 
and opened with ten girls as lodgers. It be- 
came at once a social centre, and members 
were allowed the use of rooms to entertain 
their friends. 

They were fortunate in the choice of a 
matron, if we may judge by her words. She 
said : " A home in truth is what we mean to 
have for women, where they may have sun- 
shine and liberty; where they may be sur- 
rounded with refining influences; where they 
may be associated with people of culture. We 
want to make it a home of comfort and in- 
terest, and above all a pleasurable home that 
they may grow into doing things for humanity 
from very gladness of heart." 

Recently the Company handed over to the 



BETTERMENT 231 

club the old homestead of the Pattersons. This 
is a fine old mansion, of bright and cheerful 
aspect; it is delightfully situated on a hill in 
the park, within easy range of the factory. 
This will afford an ideal home for a number 
of young women, besides being the social 
centre of the Woman's Century Club. 

The place is in the hands of the most artistic 
of landscape gardeners, and there are lawns 
for croquet, lawn tennis, hockey, and other 
games. The winding driveway to the factory 
is being planted with trees and shrubs; the 
old gardens are being enlarged and planted 
so as to secure the maximum of privacy. This 
is only part of the scheme to make it " the 
finest industrial estate in America." 

The National Cash Register athletic field 
and the boys' gardens are to be enlarged; 
there will be much additional playground for 
the men and the women. " A large grand 
stand, capable of seating several thousand per- 
sons, with a swimming tank on the ground 
floor, will be erected. . . . The Men's Welfare 
League baseball diamond will be directly be- 
fore it, and the football field will be enclosed 
with a running track. An open-air gymnasium 
for the men, with bathrooms and dressing- 
rooms, is projected to be the M. W. W. L. on 



23^ BETTERMENT 

the site just south of the grand stand." These 
are a few of the plans which will be realised 
by the time this book is in print. 

It would be difficult to exhaust the list of 
welfare and educational works that have been 
organised by these 5,000 co-operating brains, 
under the inspiriting initiative of their presi- 
dent. The once infamous Slidertown is now 
South Park, and the whole of the surroundings 
are being bettered and beautified and turned 
into a veritable realm of pleasance. Thus we 
have an ideal factory in ideal surroundings. 

But, it will be objected, this is a philan- 
thropic delirium, a spendthrift extravagance 
that would ruin any but a marvellously pros- 
perous business. No, it is the evolution of 
the higher business methods that will be taken 
as a matter of course in another generation or 
two. All the live, up-to-date firms are doing 
something in the way of welfare work; and 
the institution of conferences by the National 
Civic Federation will spread it more and more 
and improve the methods. 

Whatever the amount or the kind of welfare 
work that may be done by others — and splen- 
did things have been and are being done — 
no one has done so much as Mr. Patterson 
to make it known throughout the industrial 



BETTERMENT 233 

world; to demonstrate by the wonderful object- 
lesson at Dayton, by his lectures, and by means 
of the splendid missionary spirit he has in- 
fused into his employees, that it pays. It pays 
in dollars alone, to say nothing of the mental, 
moral, and physical gain of good- will and 
hearty co-operation in place of the worry, the 
fret and friction of smouldering strife, antag- 
onism, and ill-will. 

Wherever there is a National, or rather 
International Cash Register, throughout the 
world, its bell rings out the old bad methods 
and rings in the new, — a new era of higher 
and more beneficent industrial development. 

Welfare Work Applicable to all Cases — 
an Illustration 

I will close this chapter with a little story 
given to me by Mr. A. A. Thomas, the secre- 
tary of the National Cash Register, which illus- 
trates better than argument the vital fact that 
no business is too vast and no business too 
small to be benefited by welfare work: 

" President Patterson insists that the prin- 
ciple and the method of welfare work is appli- 
cable in all cases of employer and employee. 
And I believe he is right. The necessity is 



234 BETTERMENT 

greater where workmen are employed in large 
numbers or are herded together; but I believe 
the principle of it is, pro tanto, just as much 
between the mistress of the house and her 
kitchen girl as it is at the National Cash Reg- 
ister. It is applicable between a farmer and 
his hired man and, in fact, in all cases where 
the relation of employer and employee exists. 
It would not be hard to preach on the subject 
and to tell more plain and particular truth 
that needs to be known, and is either denied 
or forgotten, than you can hear in all the 
Dayton churches next Sunday. 

"I will tell you a little story here. It is 
one which President Patterson told me. He 
was giving in London his factory lecture, and 
said, as he often does, that these things are 
applicable anywhere. Someone on the front 
seat rose and stopped him to ask : * You say 
so and so ; I wish you would tell me how that 
could be applied in my business. It is all 
very well if a corporation is big and rich like 
yours, but how can I use such things ? I have 
a lunch counter and four girl employees.' Mr. 
Patterson asked his name and address, which 
were given, and the lecture went on. The 
next noon Mr. Patterson went to that restau- 
rant when the proprietor was out, and, taking 



BETTERMENT 235 

lunch, got into conversation with the waiter 
girl, saying that he was a stranger and an 
American, and that he wanted to ask a few 
questions. I will not take time to write of the 
adroitness with which he put his questions, as 
he told me the story. 

" * You have one advantage here, for you 
get your lunches without much expense.' 

" ' Oh, no, sir ! We get nothing here, and 
have to go outside and buy it, and it eats quite 
an item into our wages.' 

** ' Well, I understand that girls who work 
in places like this are pretty well paid.' The 
wage was given — incredibly low. 

" ' Yet you do not have to work undue 
hours.' She gave the hours, which were in- 
credibly long; and she went on to say that 
they were longer because, as they could not 
afford the penny bus, some of them went far 
out of their way to accompany the others into 
dangerous regions going home. 

'' Mr. Patterson went to the Continent, but 
returned and gave his lecture again in Lon- 
don, and when he reached this part he told 
the story. The restaurant proprietor was there 
(but Mr. Patterson did not know it), and he 
was struck. At a later lecture, when Mr. 
Patterson told the story again, he rose and 



236 BETTERMENT 

said, * I am that man.' And then he told how 
he went home and got to thinking about the 
matter. As the result of his thinking he saw 
plainly how he might let his waiter girls have 
their lunch in his shop at cost, which was 
almost nothing. He told how, without harm 
to himself, he had shortened their hours ; how 
he had asked for suggestions with some re- 
ward for those he might adopt; how the pro- 
position came as a total surprise, but in return 
came a number of suggestions which were of 
substantial benefit to the business. And he 
had gone further, and in requital for this had 
given an increase of pay which permitted his 
waiters to ride, instead of walking both to and 
from their homes. Then he added, ' I want to 
tell these things because I have gone long 
enough already to feel sure the whole experi- 
ment has not cost me any money ! ' " 

The Social Secretary 

The foregoing refers to welfare work at a 
factory and to stores dealing with its products ; 
but it is equally applicable to the retail busi- 
ness and to the " universal provider.'' Mar- 
shall Field and Company of Chicago, employ- 
ing nearly 8,000 people, have adopted many 



BETTERMENT 237 

of the welfare features already described in 
connection with the National Cash Register. 
Their motto is " Loyal, Satisfied Employees/' 
and they have striven to attain that ideal, and 
with great success. They insist on all-round 
honesty to the public as well as to themselves. 
There is the most careful attention to wise and 
just promotion, and they endeavour to realise 
their motto, '' Merit Wins," and make it an 
actual statement of fact. To be employed by 
them is a certificate of character. That this 
great firm, situated in the midst of that vast 
vortex of well and ill-directed energy, should 
have taken up welfare work with their usual 
thoroughness is a fine example that will have 
far-reaching effects. 

Marshall Field and Company's "Depart- 
ment Store " is one of the wonders of the 
commercial world. It occupies a whole block 
and towers many blocks heavenwards. When 
one is shot upwards in one of their express 
elevators the floors flash past one like cine- 
matograph pictures. Their windows, on all 
of the four streets they face, are set out by 
trained and highly-paid artists, and each is an 
'* arrangement " of exquisite beauty; a dream 
of lovely colours in perfect harmony. Only 
a very few objects are put in one window, 



238 BETTERMENT 

and only those which set each other off, either 
by contrast or by harmonious blending, so 
that everything is made to look precious. This 
is an immense advance on the horrible over- 
crowding of windows, in which there is such 
a conglomeration of conflicting colours that 
everything is displayed to the worst possible 
advantage and everything is made to look 
common. This artistic window-dressing really 
studies the welfare of the passer-by who hap- 
pens to have an artist's eye, and turns the arid 
streets into a flower garden of delight. Beauty 
pays! 

The Social Secretary, or the Welfare Secre- 
tary, tends to fulfil an important function not 
originally contemplated. In her evidence at the 
Conference on Welfare Work, Miss Hirschler, 
who worked such a great and beneficial change 
at the retail store of Messrs. Filene's Sons 
Company of Boston, soon found that her posi- 
tion became a judicial one. She represented 
the interests of both employer and employed; 
she had to hear the complaints of the workers, 
represent the employer's views to them, and 
their views to the manager. The showing 
of both sides of the case sympathetically to 
the aggrieved workers frequently removed the 
trouble. And, on the other hand, by sympa- 



BETTERMENT 239 

thetically representing the workers' views to 
the manager, real grievances were at once 
rectified. When deserved promotion tarries, 
a word from the social secretary puts things 
right. By her womanly tact she has won the 
confidence of both sides, and is able to do the 
work of a board of conciliation and something 
in the way of arbitration. Thus she has aided 
harmony and efficiency in many ways. 

Mrs. Isabelle F. Nye, as social secretary, 
has worked wonders for the Siegel-Cooper 
Company of New York City. Her experiences 
have been similar to those of Miss Hirschler. 
The first great difficulty is the suspicion and 
distrust of the women workers. Their first 
feeling is that of resentment; if the social sec- 
retary has tact and wisdom enough to over- 
come that, then a very wide field of usefulness 
opens out to her. The personal touch is all- 
important. Mrs. Nye soon became guide, 
philosopher, and friend to thousands of girls; 
she made them feel that she was a very pres- 
ent help in time of trouble; that they could 
always depend on her sympathy and counsel; 
and above all she was an inspiration. Many 
of these girls were as ignorant as children of 
womanly duties; so, when she had them as 
guests at the sumptuous vacation house, she 



240 BETTERMENT 

and her daughter would in many unobtrusive 
ways initiate them into household duties, — 
always by observing the quaint old philoso- 
pher's advice : '' If you would bring up a child 
in the way it should go, go that way yourself ! " 

Mrs. Wheeler of the Shepard Company of 
Providence, R. I., and other ladies gave identi- 
cal testimony. In every case where the wel- 
fare work is on the right lines the results have 
been beneficent beyond expectation. There 
has been more and better work and better 
feeling; the lives of the workers have been 
made brighter and happier, and industrial con- 
ditions have been rendered more stable. 

So for the wise employer the question is 
not: " Can I afford to do this welfare work? " 
but " Can I afford not to do it? " 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE HOUSING PROBLEM 

The housing problem is a puzzling one 
everywhere. In English rural districts the 
difficulty of providing bright, sanitary, and 
cheap cottages for farm workers is one of the 
causes of the crowding into towns, and the 
consequent physical deterioration of the race. 
Model employers, it is true, have in some cases 
provided model cottages for their work-folk, 
but these efforts have been largely philan- 
thropic; the problem needs to be solved on 
business lines. Garden cities promise to re- 
move one part of the difficulty ; but much will 
remain to be done. 

In some cases manufacturers have had to 
grapple with the question in their own way. 
Messrs. Lever Brothers of Port Sunlight are 
among the most successful of these. Finding 
their original location too small for their grow- 
ing business, they determined to remove to a 
spot where they could erect both works and a 
village for their employees. The desired spot 

i6 



242 BETTERMENT 

was found on a branch of the River Mersey, 
a few miles from Liverpool. The land being 
considerably above the river level, there were 
a number of ravines, or hollows, branching 
out in various directions, which were filled 
with water at high tide, but displayed un- 
sightly mud-flats when the water was low. The 
ravines were filled up to just above the high- 
water mark; the banks were grassed and 
planted, winding walks were laid out, and 
comfortable seats provided. In this way the 
curving gullies were made pleasant and pic- 
turesque features of the village. Across these 
depressions have been built beautiful bridges, 
which add greatly to the charming appearance 
of the place. 

In planning the village the first care was 
that none of the cottages should have their 
backs to the railway line. Mr. W. H. Lever 
said on this point : " It is remarkable how 
little this is thought of in laying out building 
land adjoining railways, and yet I know of no 
feature of such an estate that ought to have 
more careful attention, both on the grounds of 
the financial success of such undertakings and 
also in the interests of the public using the 
railway." 

The first purchase of land was about 56 



BETTERMENT 243 

acres; 24 for the works, and 32 for the vil- 
lage. Now there are 90 acres devoted to the 
works and 140 to the village. Upon this land 
about 600 ideal cottages have been erected, 
with plenty of room for gardens and lawns. 
They are all very picturesque, and there is 
great variety. They are a cross between old 
English timbered cottages, much glorified, and 
modern suburban villas, and among them is a 
copy of Shakespeare's cottage at Stratford-on- 
Avon. The timbering, being darker than the 
walls, makes effective decoration, which can 
be seen at a great distance. The plasterer's 
art has been made much of, and contributes 
a pleasant variety to the cottage decorations. 
Many of them are embellished with effective 
wood-carving. 

The latter point gives rise to an idea that 
deserves to be spread. As wood-carving is 
practised in manual training schools, students 
showing any artistic leanings might be encour- 
aged to carve on a scale suitable for cottage 
decoration. The student should be required 
to design his own work from natural objects 
and not from " copies." This would stimulate 
their invention, and be doubly valuable as 
training. It would not matter how rough the 
work, or how quaint the design. In this way 



244 BETTERMENT 

we could reproduce, as nearly as possible at this 
age of the world, the conditions under which 
the old Gothic sculptors worked. These, 
according to Ruskin and William Morris, were 
the ideal conditions for bringing out the best 
in an artist. No grown-up person can repro- 
duce the quaintness, naivete, and charm of 
the works of these delightful grown-up children 
sculptors; but our youngest striving for self- 
expression might do it, or give us something 
equally delightful. In any case the carvings 
would admirably serve the purpose, would cost 
next to nothing, and would provide admirable 
manual training for the children. The old 
sculptors who embellished the Gothic cathe- 
drals with such a wealth of quaint inventions 
attained that stage at which the art of the 
Japanese was arrested, the latter going further 
only in exquisiteness of finish. In both there 
is the same love of natural forms and the same 
grotesque quaintness in the treatment of the 
human figure. 

This digression was suggested by the unusu- 
ally bright and picturesque appearance of the 
flower-decked cottages at Port Sunlight. Great 
care has been devoted to these dwellings. If a 
cottage is too large, it entails too much work 
on the housewife; if too small, inconvenience 



BETTERMENT 245 

and manifold discomforts arise. They are fitted 
with baths and every convenience, and are per- 
fect for the purpose ; and there are several types 
to suit the different classes of workers. 

With the six hundred cottages there are all 
the other institutions that go to make up a model 
village. There is the Gladstone Hall, having 
a well-appointed stage for concerts and theatri- 
cal performances, which are given during the 
winter months. It serves as a dining-room for 
the men; it has a kitchen, with a cook and 
assistants for heating the workpeople's food. 
The Hall is hung with pictures, some of which 
are the work of one of the employees, who dis- 
plays great ability. 

The Hulme Hall is a fine, cheerful building, 
which serves as a Girls' Restaurant and Dining- 
Hall. The cooking and serving arrangements 
provide adequately for the varied requirements 
of over I, GOO girls. Excellent food of all kinds 
is supplied at cost. 

A well-equipped Technical Institute affords 
educational facilities for the employees and the 
non-residents as well. There is the Lever Free 
Library and Museum; Men's Social Club; a 
fine church, with a splendid organ; and there 
are large and perfectly appointed schools. The 
walls of the latter have the usual maps and 



246 BETTERMENT 

school pictures, more instructive than artistic; 
but in addition to these are a number of 
reproductions from the finest works of art. 
Messrs. Lever seem to be art lovers, as their 
reception hall at the works is hung with very 
fine paintings, and everywhere works of art are 
in evidence. 

An unusual feature is the ** Auditorium,'' an 
open-air theatre, which deserves a better cli- 
mate. There are all sorts of clubs for all sorts 
of games, with a splendid gymnasium, open-air 
baths, etc. They have a prize brass band, and 
a boys' brigade with its band. They have 
formed a company of volunteers (ist Cheshire 
Royal Engineers). There are societies of all 
kinds, — literary and scientific, choral, musical, 
dramatic, a book club, and a mutual improve- 
ment society. In short, there are all the evi- 
dences of intensely active, full, and varied life. 
To still further improve the happy relations be- 
tween employers and employees, yearly trips 
are organised to interesting places; one of 
these being to the Great Exposition in Paris, 
of 1900. 

This glance at English Welfare Work has 
taken us somewhat beyond the housing prob- 
lem, although they are closely related. Mr. W. 
H. Lever, in one of his interesting lectures, 



BETTERMENT M7 

gives some particulars as to the standard types 
of the cottages. 

" In planning the standard type the idea has 
been/' he says, " first, to provide a garden as a 
foreground to the cottage and screen it from the 
road. These front gardens are in every case 
kept in proper order and cared for by ourselves. 
We have found by experience that no other plan 
is successful in securing a character to the vil- 
lage and avoiding the unsightliness of here and 
there the obtrusion of neglected plots of garden 
which would mar the whole effect. This care 
by ourselves of front gardens is effected at a 
cost of 3d. per garden a week. 

" In addition to these front gardens we have 
also allotment gardens to almost each block of 
cottages. These allotments the tenants culti- 
vate themselves as vegetable gardens, or they 
properly fence and use them for poultry, etc. 
These allotment gardens are placed as near as 
possible to each cottage, and are the safety 
valve of the village. Their use and apprecia- 
tion by the villagers speaks more eloquently 
than any words of mine could do of the 
absolute need for such means of healthy 
recreation. . . . 

" The cottage type provides for three bed- 
rooms upstairs, and living-room, kitchen, scul- 



^48 BETTERMENT 

lery, bathroom, and larder on the ground floor, 
with enclosed yard and the usual outbuild- 
ings." The dimensions are given in the plans ; 
the greatest length of any of the rooms seems 
to be i6 or 17 feet, by 14 or 15. Some are 
larger and some are smaller. Mr. Lever con- 
tinues : " Our experience leads us to believe that 
any variation from these dimensions has not 
been popular with the villagers. If the rooms 
are made larger it entails more work on the wife 
than she is able to devote to their care, and 
therefore the house soon loses its tenant. On 
the other hand, if the rooms are smaller they 
will not accommodate the necessary furniture, 
with a like result. In fact, a workman's cot- 
tage must fit like a glove the wants of the ten- 
ant if it is to be a successful attempt to provide 
for the happiness and comfort of himself, his 
wife and family." 

The foregoing describes the ordinary cot- 
tage. " The parlour cottages differ from the 
ordinary cottages in having an additional bed- 
room on the first floor and a parlour on the 
ground floor. In a few cases the scullery in 
these houses has been fitted with a kitchen grate, 
so that all the cooking could be done there, 
leaving the kitchen to be used as a dining- 
room. The general type adapted for the par- 



BETTERMENT ^49 

lour houses has proved popular, and therefore 
has been settled upon as permanent. 

" The financial aspect of the village at Port 
Sunlight is soon told. The capital it has taken 
to buy the 140 acres of land, build the cottages, 
houses, schools, shops, institutions, clubs, etc., 
and including making the roads, laying out 
the parks, etc., has been over £350,000. 

" Our standard type of cottage thirteen years 
ago cost us £200 each to build, and identi- 
cally the same cottage in 1901 cost us £330 
to build. The parlour houses cost us then 
about £350 each to build, and now about £550 
each. 

" Upon this £350,000 Lever Brothers re- 
ceive no interest or return v^hatever, the rents 
being fixed at such an amount as only to pay 
for taxes, repairs, and maintenance. The rents 
have had to be increased from 3/ — per cottage 
per week, to 5/ — per week, owing to increased 
cost of maintenance- of parks and roads and of 
the cottages themselves." 

Mr. Lever says elsewhere that if the firm have 
no £.s.d. return from the village, they have a 
cheerful and contented body of workers, and 
that the business is so aboundingly successful 
that they are quite contented with the state of 
things. As the able editor of " Progress " said 



250 BETTERMENT 

in reply to my question : " It pays in an invis- 
ible way." 

Mr. W. H. Lever, who has thought deeply 
and spoken wisely on the capital and labour 
problems, has introduced a new idea which is 
well worth the consideration of those who wish 
to do something for their workpeople and yet 
do not care to go to the length of profit-sharing. 
This is what he calls " Prosperity-Sharing." 
He does not think profit-sharing has been an 
unqualified success. It is a wrong principle, he 
declares ; those who cannot share losses ought 
not to share profits. But he believes that a suc- 
cessful employer ought to share his prosperity 
with his workers. A portion of the profits 
should be set aside for their benefit, — not to 
be paid out in bonuses, but into a common fund 
or " reservoir," from which contributions 
should be made for bettering the conditions of 
labour. Here are some of his own words on 
this interesting point : — 

" In order to carry this into effect, some 
reservoir must be created into which the share 
of profits belonging to labour can be stored 
during prosperous years, to be more evenly 
applied both over varying years and for a 
greater variety of benefits than would other- 
wise be possible. On no account must any di- 



BETTERMENT 251 

rect payment to individuals by means of bonus 
arrangements be made under a prosperity- 
sharing scheme. This would be absolutely 
fatal to success, and introduce all the drawbacks 
and objections inherent to profit-sharing. Nor 
must sums be credited to individuals for their 
sole benefit. The funds in the reservoir must 
remain the property of the firm, to be held in 
trust, but without obligation, for the benefit of 
the labour at the time being engaged in the em- 
ploy of the prosperity-sharing firm. Labour on 
ceasing to be in the employ of the firm must have 
no claim on the fund set aside for prosperity- 
sharing. The funds in the reservoir or else- 
where must be agreed to be for the benefit 
exclusively of labour during the time of its 
employment in the active business of the firm, 
and for the bestowal of pensions on such labour 
at the discretion of the firm, and without any 
power on the part of labour to demand pen- 
sions or benefits as part of a contract. 

'' The benefits of prosperity-sharing may be 
applied to labour in a great variety of ways, and 
it would be entirely out of place here to lay 
down hard and fast rules. All that is possible 
to state is that contributions out of the fund 
may be made to every scheme that has for its 
object the social and industrial betterment of 



252 BETTERMENT 

labour. One of the best methods for the appli- 
cation of the principle of prosperity-sharing 
is to be found in building cottages to be let to 
labour at low rentals. This plan is most effec- 
tive in elevating and bettering the conditions 
of labour, and has the additional advantage of 
ensuring that the wives and children shall share 
in it. But this method is the one that is most 
often impossible of application, and in any case 
is only one of hundreds of schemes. Contribu- 
tions may be made towards the building of 
clubs, recreation halls, institutions, summer 
holidays, winter entertainments, sick and burial 
societies, and hundreds of others. By contribu- 
tions to objects such as these, labour enjoys the 
fullest liberty in managing its own institutions 
outside the business, whilst management is 
maintained in its proper place inside the 
business.'' 

This is very interesting as throwing light on 
the firm's methods. Prosperity-sharing seems 
to be a principle deduced from their practice, 
rather than a practice built upon the prin- 
ciple. It is manifestly not a final or complete 
solution of the problem; but it is most ingen- 
ious and it works admirably in this case and 
would do so in others. It certainly surmounts 
many of the difficulties of profit-sharing, and it 



BETTERMENT 253 

should be given a fair trial wherever conditions 
are favourable. 



A Factory in a Garden 

The above is the well-earned title of the 
famous Cocoa Works of Messrs. Cadbury 
Brothers, at Bourneville, near Birmingham, 
England. Messrs. Cadbury might be reincar- 
nations of the Cheeryble Brothers, whom 
Dickens immortalised, as their benevolence is 
of the same overflowing nature. It is true 
they have been moved by religious promptings, 
but their religion lifted itself above creedal nar- 
rowness. Their work is largely philanthropic, 
and as such is worthy of all honour, but I 
am more interested in the higher development 
of business which attains like results simply as 
good business, and which can be recommended 
even to the grasping employer as a good 
investment. 

But the Bourneville Village Trust is the em- 
bodiment of a monumental idea which is 
worthy of more extended application. 

The village of Bourneville is somewhat like 
that of Port Sunlight, — varied dwellings, pic- 
turesque, comfortable, and sanitary. There are 
the same Welfare Work features: 12 acres of 



254 BETTERMENT 

recreation grounds for the girls employed at 
the factory, tennis courts, cricket and hockey 
grounds, a pleasant tree-shaded lawn, and a fine 
pavilion. The men's grounds for their various 
games are even more extensive. The fine old 
Bourneville Hall, with its pleasant grounds, is 
now used as a boarding house for the girls who 
are orphans, or who are living at a distance 
from their relations. There are ideal alms- 
houses, swimming baths, and a number of other 
admirable features. 

The village has a distinctive claim on our 
attention in the fact that Mr. George Cadbury 
has vested it in Trustees, and that it is for the 
benefit of all, and not confined to the factory 
employees. The deed by which it was handed 
over by the founder is a model of forethought- 
ful wisdom. Mr. Cadbury had been deeply im- 
pressed by the deplorable housing conditions for 
workmen around Birmingham, and he deter- 
mined to give a large part of his estate for the 
purpose of improving them. His objects are 
thus stated : — 

*' The Founder is desirous of alleviating the 
evils which arise from the insanitary and insuf- 
ficient accommodation supplied to large num- 
bers of the working classes, and of securing to 
the workers some of the advantages of outdoor 



BETTERMENT 255 

life, with opportunities for the natural and 
healthful occupation of cultivating the soil." 

It was decided that there should be no crowd- 
ing either of the cottages or of their occupants. 
So every cottage has its garden fore and aft; 
the roads are wide and bordered with trees; 
and one-tenth of the land, in addition to roads 
and gardens, is devoted to parks and recreation 
grounds. 

'' This gift to the nation, including subse- 
quent donations, is valued at about £200,000; 
it consists of 458 acres of land, and the village 
of Bourneville. The revenue, whether from 
house and farm rents, ground rents, or any 
other source, is paid to the Trustees, and must 
be employed by them, after making provision 
for the repair and maintenance of the property, 
in building more houses and further developing 
the estate. So far, only about 100 acres have 
been laid out for building, but when the whole 
is completed the surplus revenue is to be applied 
to the purchase of other estates, either in the 
neighbourhood of Birmingham or elsewhere, 
to be developed as manufacturing villages. It 
will thus be seen that the gift is absolute, none 
of the revenue returning to the donor or his 
representatives, but all going into the hands of 
the Trustees. The scheme contains within it 



266 BETTERMENT 

a principle of continual growth, and the in- 
come in course of time will so increase as to 
admit of an almost indefinite extension of the 
benefits of the gift." 

While ample powers are given to the Trustees 
in all directions — such as to give land or erect 
buildings for places of worship, hospitals, 
schools, technical institutes, libraries, gymna- 
siums, laundries, baths, and kindred objects — 
it is expressly stated that all sectarian influ- 
ences and jealousies are to be excluded or 
guarded against. Further, that the sale of 
intoxicating liquors is only sanctioned by the 
unanimous consent of all the Trustees; and 
that all the profits arising therefrom " shall be 
devoted to securing for the village community 
recreation and counter attractions to the liquor 
trade as ordinarily conducted." 

It would be difficult to find a more splendid 
bit of philanthropic work than this, or any laid 
out with such statesman-like foresight and wis- 
dom. The principle of growth is, perhaps, the 
most valuable of all. The houses are so eagerly 
sought for that it is manifest that if conducted 
on severe business lines higher rents could be 
obtained, the Trustees could develop the estate 
even more rapidly, and could sooner begin their 
beneficent work elsewhere. As a plague-spot 



BETTERMENT 257 

may spread until it infects a whole neighbour- 
hood, or even distant parts, so, on the other 
hand, one health-spot may spread until it blesses 
the entire country, and sends a beneficent wave 
of stimulating suggestion round the world. 

If a number of these health germs were 
planted in various parts of England they would 
grow and grow until this phase of the housing 
problem would be solved. Here is a chance for 
millionaires to irhmortalise themselves. But 
whatever may be done in this way, the example 
set at Port Sunlight, and elsewhere, of housing 
the workers on what might be called the higher 
business principles, is one that is bound to 
spread. 

There are two increasing difficulties about 
which I should like to throw out suggestions. 
Mr. Lever tells us that in thirteen years the 
cost of building cottages has increased by about 
seventy-five per cent, and when I was there the 
supply of garden allotments was not equal to 
the demand. Such a model village increases the 
value of all surrounding property, so that more 
land can be had only at increased cost. 

Mr. Lever suggests that cottages should be 

built so as to stand for fifty or sixty years only, 

and thus effect a saving in cost. He also thinks 

search should be made for cheaper building 

17 



258 BETTERMENT 

materials. But there is another way in which 
these difficulties may be lessened. At the vil- 
lage at Port Sunlight, and also at Bourneville, 
the dwellings occupy about one-third of the 
land belonging to each one ; this has been laid 
down as an essential condition at Bourneville 
by Mr. Cadbury. On this principle a village 
spreads over a wide area, and the maximum of 
land is covered by the buildings, with almost the 
minimum of housing accommodation. Now, 
as well-to-do people in the suburbs much prefer 
flats to houses or villas, why should not people 
employed in factories prefer them ? If we build 
six flats in one block that gives the same ac- 
commodation as six cottages, we save a great 
deal of land for gardening purposes. The cost 
of the flats would be less than for the same 
amount of accommodation in cottages, and a 
few of these blocks in the centre of a village 
would give it an imposing appearance. They 
would be popular, for there is a certain socia- 
bility about them that is not to be had with de- 
tached dwellings. At one or more corners these 
blocks of flats should have towers for spiral 
stairs, fire-proof, and with landings at the bal- 
cony with which each flat should be furnished. 
The stairs should lead up to the roof, which 
should be flat, and might be laid out as a roof 



BETTERMENT 259 

garden, or a general meeting place where the 
men could smoke or the women take their 
needlework in fine weather, and all enjoy the 
view and the fresh air. The outside stairs 
would be the best of fire escapes, and should 
be in addition to the inside stairs. By this 
means sociability would be promoted and many 
opportunities would be given for co-operative 
efforts; above all there would be more land 
for gardens, which have been shown to pay 
well in cash in addition to the other inesti- 
mable benefits of gardening as an ideal form 
of exercise. 

The other difficulty is, of course, the ever- 
lasting land question. This is at the back of all 
social problems ; it acts like a sort of creeping 
paralysis which hampers all efforts at human 
betterment, as the landlord is ever in the back- 
ground to carry off the lion's share of increased 
values. We are only playing at political econ- 
omy until this problem is solved. Our econo- 
mists have been singularly at fault in dealing 
with this stupendous question. They all recog- 
nise that it is fundamental and that there is 
only one real solution; but how to bring that 
about has been the difficulty. Some have pro- 
posed schemes that would require the volcanic 
forces of a revolution to carry them; others 



260 BETTERMENT 

have proposed plans that upset all accepted 
ideas of property, and are equally revolution- 
ary; others have proposed schemes right 
enough as abstract justice, but quite unwork- 
able owing to the vastness of the change and 
the general dislocation of the thousand and one 
interests that have grown up about landed 
affairs. 

The plan formulated by Mr. George Cadbury 
for the Bourneville estate contains the germ 
of the only true solution : that of allowing the 
profits of one estate to go toward the purchase 
of more land to be public property. This idea 
occurred to me some years ago, long before I 
heard of Mr. Cadbury's scheme, which he 
thought of only in connection with the housing 
of workers, and by no means as a solution of 
the problem that has so completely baffled the 
political economists. My own scheme deals 
only with the great problem, and is one which 
all far-seeing reformers, to whatever party they 
belong, should welcome. The very slightest 
outline of it would over-burden this chapter, so 
I hint the plan in the appendix. I give the word 
which sufficeth for the wise, and it can be 
skipped by those who are not interested in the 
ultimate problems.^ 

1 See Appendix C. 



CHAPTER XVII 

THE HOUSING PROBLEM IN THE UNITED STATES 

This subject would require a volume to it- 
self, and only a few hints of what is being done 
can be given here. From a distance one thinks 
of the United States as a homogeneous unity, 
and it takes a closer acquaintance to realise that 
instead of being one great country, it is a big 
collection of big countries, with a great variety 
of climates and varied conditions, and a very 
mixed population ; but there is a unanimity of 
patriotic feeling greater than would be ex- 
pected under the circumstances. The housing 
needed for the fierce extremes of temperature 
in some of the States differs greatly from that 
needed on the Pacific Coast, and the feeling of 
the different peoples would vary according to 
the percentage of new arrivals who are used 
to old-world conditions to the free-born Ameri- 
can, with his independence and his resentment 
of paternalism. 

In many cases American workmen have 
greater facilities for obtaining houses of their 
own than in the old countries. The extensive 



m2 BETTERMENT 

use of wood for cottages in the States and the 
sparing use of garden walls and fences tend to 
lessen the cost. Some interesting light is 
thrown on this subject by Mr. S. J. Gorman, 
in the valuable pamphlet from which I have 
already quoted : — " The National Cash Reg- 
ister Factory as seen by English Experts, With 
Notes." These notes, invited and compiled by 
Mr. Alfred A. Thomas from officers of the 
company, to- justify, correct, or explain the re- 
ports of the English experts, give the best kind 
of first-hand information. 

Housing Problem of the National Cash 
Register Workmen 

" There is no housing problem — at least 
none that the men cannot best solve for them- 
selves. They are in the habit of doing so 
unaided. Mr. S. J. Gorman says : — 

" * I am foreman of the janitor force of 
seventy-five men. I own my house and four 
others, and have lived for about twelve years, 
a quarter of a mile from the factory, in the new 
suburban settlement, near the National Cash 
Register Extension House. We call our little 
settlement, Rubicon. It has 200 families, about 
one-third of whom work at the National Cash 



BETTERMENT 263 

Register. About us, homes for working peo- 
ple are being rapidly put up on newly plotted 
ground. Lots 50 X 150 feet, have sold at $300 
and less ; price rising, they now sell for $600. 
On such a lot a frame house of five rooms, with 
lot improvements, can be built for say $1,100. 
If a man has $300 to pay down, he can get the 
money easily from the building association at 
6 per cent, making weekly payments until the 
debt is paid off. Almost all of the house owners 
in our neighbourhood are doing so in this way. 
Mechanics and clerks generally reckon to pay 
one week's wages for a month's rent. A 
mechanic with steady work, earning say $16 to 
$18 per week, if he pays one week's wages for 
rent, can get a house with six rooms, bath, fur- 
nace, and modern improvements. Everything 
is new in our region. It is healthy and has no 
drawback that I know of. My janitor force 
are all coloured men and there are 75 of them. 
They get from $10 to $11 per week. I should 
say that one-third of this force have bought 
their own homes and are paying for them.' " 
Speaking from fifteen years' experience Mr. 
Gorman believes that over half of the workmen 
own or are buying their own houses. Abun- 
dant street-car lines take them rapidly to all 
parts of Dayton; and the factory folk dislike 



264 BETTERMENT 

congregating in any particular district, and pre- 
fer following their own inclinations. ** The 
men prefer to take care of themselves, and are 
able to do so in the matter of housing. They 
need no assistance from the Company for this 
purpose. The building associations in Dayton 
are many ; they are all, or nearly all, very good. 
Some of them give money at 5 per cent inter- 
est. They are managed by the workmen them- 
selves, who understand and like them, and they 
don't need anyone to take their places.'' 

That note of independence is the key-note of 
the situation; and while many workpeople do 
live in villages specially built for them by 
their employers, if this independent spirit is 
not allowed for, trouble results. 

Great Pullman Town Experiment 

This was shown in the case ca^e of Pullman 
Town, one of the largest and most notable 
experiments in industrial housing yet made in 
America. It was built by the Pullman's Palace 
Car Company, and was begun in 1880. Mr. 
George M. Pullman, anxious to do the best for 
his workmen, secured 4,000 acres of land about 
14 miles from Chicago; this was scientifically 
drained, and laid out artistically by the best 



BETTERMENT 266 

talent available. Over 1,520 substantial build- 
ings were erected, with variety in character to 
suit the varied requirements of the workers. 
The eight miles of streets were wide and well- 
kept, and the lawns in front of the houses were 
cared for by the Company. In the large market 
all shopping could be done under cover. There 
was a fine Arcade, a handsome theatre, bank, 
offices, and only one hotel ; there was a church, 
library, and everything necessary for a hand- 
some and unusually complete model town of 
14,000 inhabitants. The entire cost was about 
eight million dollars; and it returned a little 
over 4 per cent. 

The one great fault in the scheme was that 
nearly everything was done for the men, and 
very little by them. They were not allowed to 
purchase land in the town, although they were 
assisted when they wished to purchase land out- 
side. Crime and drunkenness were reduced to 
the minimum, and thrift was encouraged; so 
Pullman's idea was reahsed. As a benevolent 
despotism, however, in a democratic country, it 
was fatally defective, and instead of eliciting 
gratitude, it seemed to provoke hostility. At all 
events, when, in 1894, to tide over a period of 
depression, it was proposed to place the men on 
something less than full time, to keep the shops 



266 BETTERMENT 

open, it led to one of the fiercest strikes of the 
time. This seems incredible, and a remarkable 
case of unreason; and it is only possible to 
understand it by perceiving the deep-rooted 
distrust of the men. A New York banker told 
me of the generous treatment of their employees 
by the great Steel Trust. They allowed their 
men to purchase shares in the Company; and 
when there was a slump in the shares the 
Company ofifered to purchase back all those 
shares at the price paid by the men. That is the 
shop-window statement. I submitted it to an 
unusually intelligent and representative work- 
man ; and he said, " Yes, that was so ; but they 
immediately reduced the men's wages. Labour 
always gets the worst of it'' That is the belief 
that works such mischief. 

Mr. C. C. Michener, Secretary of the Indus- 
trial Department of the International Depart- 
ment of the Y. M. C. A., New York, in his 
evidence at the conference on Welfare Work, 
gave two striking instances of this distrust. He 
says : — "I saw a place the other day where 
they were serving coffee for nothing, and I 
found a man who was not drinking the coffee, 
and I said : ' Why don't you drink it ? Don't 
you like it ? ' He answered : ^ Of course I do.' 
I said : ' Well, why don't you drink it ? ' Said 



BETTERMENT 267 

the man : ^ No ; if I drink a cup or two of coffee 
my employers think I will do seventeen cents' 
worth of work more than if I did n't drink it, 
and the Company gets the benefit, and I don't 
propose that they will get ahead of me in that 
way.' " The other case is striking. '* I was in 
a community the other day where the Company 
had just completed a beautiful $40,000 memo- 
rial library building, with a fine equipment, for 
the use of the men. I was invited by the man- 
agement of that Company to look into the situa- 
tion that existed there. I found a movement on 
foot among the employees for the erection of 
an $8,000 building which would give these same 
benefits which they could run themselves." 
These instances go far toward explaining an 
otherwise inexplicable state of things. 

In the case of Pullman, the writer of " De- 
mocracy and Social Ethics " says : — 

" The basic difficulty lay in the fact that an 
individual was directing the affairs of many 
men without any consistent effort to find their 
desires, and without any organisation through 
which to give them social expression. The 
president of the Company was, moreover, so 
confident of the righteousness of his aim that 
he had come to test the righteousness of the 
process by his own feelings, and not by those 



£68 BETTERMENT 

of the men. ... A few months after the 
death of the promoter of this model town, a 
court decision made it obigatory upon the Com- 
pany to divest itself of the management of the 
town as involving a function beyond its cor- 
porate powers. The parks, flowers, and foun- 
tains of this far-famed industrial centre were 
dismantled, with scarcely a protest from the 
inhabitants themselves." 

Institutions have to keep abreast of the times, 
and while great industrial concerns have to 
be run on individualistic, almost on military 
lines, while the present competitive war rages, 
the social concerns have to adjust themselves 
to the democratic — not to say the socialistic 
— spirit of the time. That is a world-wide 
impulse, and anything that opposes it begets 
a resentment that seems unreasonable, and 
quickly obliterates all sense of favours received. 
So in housing and in all welfare work this 
fact has to be carefully borne in mind, or 
failure will result. 

Some employers prefer to assist their people 
to buy their own houses, rather than take the 
responsibility of providing them. Mr. W. G. 
Mather, President of the Cleveland Cliff Iron 
Company, Ohio, recently said : — " We encour- 
age our employees to own their houses, not by 



BETTERMENT 269 

advancing money, but simply by selling or leas- 
ing them the land, allowing long-time payments, 
very cheap land and cheap rents. We build as 
few houses as possible, as we find it better for 
our people to own their own houses/' There 
are, however, many cases where men dislike 
being anchored to one spot by the purchase of 
their own homes, as they think it gives the em- 
ployer an advantage over them in case of 
disagreement. 

One of the greatest difficulties is to find the 
best form of house for the people, — to get a 
house, as Mr. Lever says, that will fit their re- 
quirements like a glove. Mr. J. E. Stevens of 
the Ludlow Manufacturing Associates, in his 
evidence at the Welfare Conference, threw some 
interesting light on these difficulties. They had 
cottages designed by architects, and designed 
others themselves, but neither were successful. 
Then they instituted careful inquiries among 
the housewives as to the kind of place they 
would have if they were building for them- 
selves. Their principal idea seemed to be that 
of saving steps, to be able to get to the children, 
or to the baby when it cried, and then to get 
quickly back to the washing, cooking, or what- 
ever work was in hand. " She would tell of the 
difficulties with the stove, and how far it was 



270 BETTERMENT 

downstairs to the cellar where supplies were 
kept ; and so, keeping all these things in view, 
fresh plans were made, and then we found we 
had got a cottage that no one very much wanted 
to live in. Indeed, it became increasingly clear, 
and it is true of most of us, whether we work 
in a mill and live in a cottage, or do some- 
thing different and live another way, we are 
not at all sure what we want until we have 
got it, and then we can usually show why we 
don't want it, and this is just about what 
happened in regard to our first new cottages. 

" So we tried a different plan. We imagined 
ourselves in the position of the mill-worker's 
wife, and tried to think out the sort of surround- 
ing that would best suit us if we had to wash 
and iron and cook and bake and care for the 
children and receive the wives of all the neigh- 
bours with the least possible inconvenience. 
We knew already quite well that human nature 
is much the same in every walk of life, and 
that those who work in mills have just the same 
sentiments as the rest of us have. When they 
received their guests they did not want to take 
them through the kitchen to reach the parlour ; 
they preferred a front room or reception-room 
accessible from the front door, just as you and 
I do. Why not? 



BETTERMENT 271 

" We had to consider all these sentiments and 
provide all these things, and we began to plan 
houses on these lines. Then we had to re- 
member that if we worked in the mill we should 
have to do all the things we spoke of, to keep 
house and bring up a family, and keep the house 
warm, and all that on a very small sum, say two 
or three dollars a day, or in many cases less 
than that. If you put yourselves in that posi- 
tion and imagine how it could be done, you 
will have an interesting problem to keep you 
occupied for quite a few hours. 

" I am glad to say that we finally succeeded 
in planning cottages that proved very satis- 
factory, and make very attractive homes for 
those who occupy them. . . . Our favourite 
cottage has six rooms; three rooms down- 
stairs, with a large pantry and shed adjoining, 
in which can be kept bicycles, the perambu- 
lator, wash-tubs, or other essentials of family 
life, without burdening the kitchen and with- 
out carrying them up and downstairs. There 
is a reception-room opening from the front 
hall and a dining-room next. It is gratify- 
ing to see how attractive these little homes 
can be made. Upstairs there are three bed- 
rooms, also a bathroom, with open plumbing, 
and just as good as any I know of, with every 



272 BETTERMENT 

sanitary essential, but, of course, with an utter 
absence of anything palatial or ornamental. 
Everything is quite plain. Our rent for such 
a cottage is $7.50 per month, the water, which 
is a city service, being extra." 

This excessive plainness might, as I have 
already suggested, be to some extent overcome 
by setting the manual training scholars to work 
carving, and making things suitable for cottage 
embellishment; then they could be had for 
little more than the cost of the material, and the 
cottages would seem much more valuable. I 
will give a further quotation from the evidence 
of Mr. Stevens, as it shows how often the un- 
expected happens. Probably the jealousy of 
housewives will explain one of the curious facts 
he mentions. If Mrs. A. living in a detached 
cottage can look down socially on Mrs. B. living 
in a flat, or vice versa, it would cause trouble. 

" We own in our town something more than 
a thousand acres of land, and we own nearly 
all the buildings and even the church, but with 
all this room a little economy in space is some- 
times necessary. Accordingly, on the leading 
street in our village, which is usually more 
popular than the rest, because it is the leading 
street (for in these matters factory people are 
just like all other people, and have the same 



BETTERMENT 273 

sentiments as you and I have), we knew that 
the main avenue of the town would be the most 
attractive to Hve on; so we thought we must 
use space more closely than in the somewhat 
extravagant manner of having large lots with 
small cottages. We decided therefore, to build 
some modern blocks, containing small apart- 
ments — such as are found in the best avenues 
of all cities, except that, of course, ours would 
be more modest and simple in every way. 
Strange to say, this venture has not been suc- 
cessful at all so far, since no one apparently 
wants to live in a block, no matter how well 
contrived. Cottages have their educational 
value, and all prefer to live in separate houses ; 
indeed many express themselves as unwilling 
to live in any other way. Yet they would occa- 
sionally leave us and pass on to villages near 
by in which there were nothing but tenements 
of a more or less sorry order, and they would 
live in those tenements without complaint ; but 
they were not willing to live with us unless they 
could live in a separate cottage home. You see 
they had in a way established a sentiment about 
what constitutes a desirable home, and there is 
a vast deal of sentiment in the lives of all people 
which we do not always discover until we put 
ourselves in their places, and it is only by doing 
i8 



274 BETTERMENT 

this that we can learn how to deal equitably and 
successfully with other people/' 

These are wise words ; and a knowledge of 
human nature is an invaluable asset. But, as 
in this case, we are apt to come upon things in 
human nature which, for want of a scientific 
term, we should be apt to describe as sheer 
" cussedness/' If in this case these apartments 
on the main avenue had been rented a little 
higher than the cottages, so that Mrs. X. could 
have held her head a little higher than Mrs. Z. 
living in a cottage, they would perhaps have 
been the most popular of all. Cherchez la 
femme and her jealousies, and you will unravel 
many mysteries. As we have already seen that 
the girls' jealousy of each other's personal 
adornments caused great trouble in a factory, 
which was overcome by providing them with 
what were practically working uniforms, so in 
the matter of housing, the wives' jealousy is a 
disturbing element; it is the feminine form 
of the democratic spirit and has to be allowed 
for. There is also the fashion of the time. In 
England there has been a perfect rage for flats ; 
and the old sentiment of having a house all to 
one's self has gone under for awhile ; but it may 
revive at any time, and people be as eager to 
get out of flats as they were to get into them. 



BETTERMENT 275 

One of the largest and most remarkable cases 
of housing and general social betterment was 
recently outlined by Mr. Lawrence Lewis, in 
the World's Work (March, 1905). It is the 
case of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company, 
and it has resulted in the uplifting of 17,000 
employees. The conditions were at the start 
the most horrible that could be conceived; 
crime, drunkenness, and filth abounded. The 
Forth of July debauch, in some cases, meant 
the stopping of the works for five days. The 
extent of the problem was staggering. Mr. 
John C. Osgood, chairman of the board of 
directors, and Mr. Julian A. Kebler, the general 
manager of the company, had 17,000 men at 
work, and had built for them thirty towns in 
Colorado, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Utah. 
The men represented over twenty different 
nationalities, with all their racial prejudices 
and antagonisms, and a Babel of tongues. 

The first care was to provide a more whole- 
some atmosphere for the children. The filthy 
huts and cabins were gradually replaced by de- 
cent houses. Then kindergartens were started, 
in spite of the difficulties caused by the confu- 
sion of tongues. The Japanese, by adhering to 
their national customs, helped the upward 
movement. " For example," says Mr. Lewis, 



276 BETTERMENT 

" a gang of fifty Japanese miners, after work- 
ing two days in one of the larger mines, sent a 
polite message to the superintendent that it 
would be impossible for them to continue to 
work unless provision were made for them to 
take baths every day when they came from the 
mine. The Company's surgeon — who had 
striven, sometimes vainly, with Mexicans, 
Slavs and Italians to induce them not to 
slaughter goats in their sitting-rooms, and at 
least to throw offal outside the houses, where 
the Company's scavenger could get it on his 
daily rounds — was made almost delirious with 
joy at this request. The superintendent had a 
large tank constructed of boiler-plate. Every 
day this was filled with fresh water, which 
was heated by a fire built beneath and by hot 
stones thrown into the water. At the change 
of the shifts, all the Japanese, who made no 
further complaints, went into this tank and 
thoroughly bathed before going to their homes. 
The Italians and other " Christian '' workmen, 
who luxuriate in the accumulated sweat and 
coal-dust of years, and whose children are regu- 
larly " sewn up " for the winter, spoke with 
contempt of the " little heathen monkeys " who 
" must be very dirty since they love to bathe so 
much.'' 



BETTERMENT 277 

This is a curious touch from the realms of 
topsy-turvy dom ; and it is certainly providen- 
tial that a vast country like America should 
have remained undiscovered until so late in the 
world's history, and is thus able to play the part 
of mixing-vat where all these various peoples, 
with their national angularities, may be polished 
and brought more into line with civilisation. 
In the process the higher qualities of each race 
tend to come to the top, and thus raise the gen- 
eral type. 

" With the social betterment work already 
done by Mr. Osgood and Mr. and Mrs. Kebler 
as a start, in the spring of 1901 the men at the 
head of the Company decided to organise the 
work on a systematic basis. Accordingly they 
created a Sociological Department. In addi- 
tion to his duties as chief surgeon. Dr. Richard 
Warren Corwin was made superintendent. An 
assistant was employed to travel from camp to 
camp as his representative, to keep constantly 
in touch with the people, to hear suggestions, 
and attend to details. An illustrated weekly 
magazine, Camp and Plant, was established to 
furnish a medium through which the sociolo- 
gical and medical departments could reach the 
people, thus supplying a newspaper to many 
camps that had none, and an illustrated maga- 



278 BETTERMENT 

zine at a nominal price to all employees who 
cared to subscribe. This helped to bring the 
people in the several camps closer together and 
to stimulate healthful rivalry/' 

Thus the press here as elsewhere is playing 
its civilising part. Most of the great American 
employers realise its inestimable value. Mr. 
John H. Patterson says that transportation and 
publication have been two of the chief factors 
in the greatness of the United States. To get 
about easily and quickly, and to have your goods 
— and above all your ideas — spread abroad 
widely and quickly, are vital elements of success. 
Cheap books and cheap newspapers are the 
civilisers, says Mr. Patterson. Teach and learn 
and learn and teach, is the mate motto to his 
*' do good and make money, and do more good 
with the money so made," and both are texts 
from which he has preached many a lay sermon 
on social and industrial betterment. In these 
wild mining camps the illustrated newspaper, 
the library, and the actual circulating library, 
that is, the sending round of boxes of books to 
the different centres, and changing them as 
often as need be, have had an immediate bene- 
ficial effect. " Illustrated articles in Camp and 
Plant on hygiene, anatomy, physiology, and * on 
what to do in emergencies/ monthly bulletins 



BETTERMENT 279 

on these subjects circulated gratuitously, and 
placards posted about the camps, as well as 
illustrated lectures and personal explanations 
by camp surgeons — all have helped to teach 
the workmen that dissipation and dirt are the 
greatest allies of disease and death." 

The drink trouble was the most difficult to 
deal with, as it demoralised men, women, and 
children. Prohibition failed abjectly. Inter- 
ference with the right to make beasts of them- 
selves was resented as an infringement of the 
glorious principles of freedom, and stimulated 
ingenuity in evasion. Drink was smuggled into 
the camps, and sly grog-selling flourished. 
" Drinking became more closely associated with 
lower forms of vice, and cases of drunkenness 
became more frequent than in camps where 
saloons were allowed to run." 

Of the various plans in course of trial, the 
regulated saloon in charge of a responsible per- 
son seems least effective. More promising are 
the club-houses where liquor-selling is coun- 
teracted by other attractions, and where " soft- 
drinks " are well in evidence. *' Soft-drinks " is 
not a happy coinage; it does not mean drinks 
that are not made with " hard water," but tem- 
perance drinks. Where the club-house has been 
tried the works have not been stopped for a 
single day through drunken orgies. 



280 BETTERMENT 

" Early in 1901," says Mr. Lewis, " Mr. 
Osgood and Mr. Kebler decided that in the 
construction of new camps, the company should 
build all the houses. Plans were drawn for 
two, three, four, five, and six-room houses with 
projecting eaves, porches, and ornamentation. 
These were to be painted in different colours to 
avoid the dull-red uniformity of the stereo- 
typed * company town.' Upon the wide, regu- 
larly laid out streets each house was placed on 
its own lot, and in many cases the lots were 
inclosed by neat picket fences. Houses of dif- 
ferent styles and sizes alternated." A good 
water service has been provided, and arrange- 
ments made for keeping the town clean. A 
great many other welfare features have been 
introduced, all making for social betterment. 
On the retirement of the energetic Mr. Kebler, 
Mr. Frank J. Hearne was appointed president ; 
and he, after investigating the welfare work, 
became as enthusiastic in its favour as his 
predecessor, and the work is growing and 
prospering. 

As I said at the beginning of this chapter, 
only a few hints could be given on so large a 
subject. There can be no doubt that the right 
housing of employees pays in something more 
than dollars. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

THRIFT AND OLD AGE PENSIONS 

In nearly all welfare work much thought and 
attention is devoted to encouraging thrift on 
the part of employees. Many ingenious devices 
have been put in operation to encourage the 
workers to save for a rainy day, for sickness, 
out-of-work periods, and for old age; and 
many of these have been rewarded with grati- 
fying success. But as Mr. Walter Hazell says, 
it is not wise to make a fetich of the virtue of 
thrift, as it is only one of many good habits, 
and, like other virtues, may be carried to an 
excess and become a vice. But with the in- 
creasing pressure of the war of competition 
the necessity for thrift tends to become greater. 
The pace is killing, and not to keep the pace 
is more fatal still. Men are becoming too old 
at forty, and in some cases at thirty-five; even 
in the mental realm we have a professor declar- 
ing that a man is too old at sixty. This is 
too much like the startling things which are 
fired off to awaken the echoes of the press and 
bring cheap advertisement. The fact is over- 



^ ^ OF THE 

UNIVERSITY 

OF 



282 BETTERMENT 

looked that some shallow natures ripen quickly 
and fall, or that men may concentrate on a 
narrow specialty, make a splash, and then go 
under. It too often happens that a clever boy 
remains a clever boy all his life, and never 
" gets any forrarder." They go up like a 
rocket and come down like the stick. We over- 
look those men of larger build or of wider cul- 
ture who ripen slowly and are young and 
growing when their juniors in years, through 
narrowness and too rapid development, have 
burnt themselves out. This consideration 
powerfully enforces my plea for all-round 
culture. 

If the manual workers are to be shunted as 
too old at thirty-five or forty, and the brain 
workers a little later, then thrift will not meet 
the case, unless remuneration is raised to a 
height that would paralyse industry as now 
carried on. 

This tendency to lower the working limit of 
a man's life will increase the seriousness of 
problems of which there has as yet been found 
no satisfactory solution on the lines hitherto 
tried. I refer to the question of provision for 
old age. I cannot deal here with the numerous 
individualistic schemes for encouraging thrift 
and for providing superannuation funds, pen- 



BETTERMENT 283 

sions, etc., as a mere catalogue of them would 
take more space than I can spare, my aim 
being to draw attention to new ideas and to 
throw out suggestions towards placing old ones 
in a new light. 

The question of old age pensions is one of 
the planks of political platforms, and many- 
schemes are actually in operation, abroad and 
in the British Colonies. But the true solution 
is yet to seek. The subject is admirably dis- 
cussed by two doughty champions in the first 
volume of " The Pro and Con Series " ^ by 
Frederick Rogers and Frederick Millar. This 
is instructive, interesting, and almost amusing 
in the completeness with which each one demol- 
ishes the other's case. They made a gold-and- 
silver-shield case of it, and show the necessity 
of taking a different standpoint. 

To me the proposition to provide workers 
with twenty or thirty years of idleness at the 
end of their lives is wrong and demoralising. 
People who have worked so long and have 
formed fixed habits feel like fish out of water 
when they have nothing to do, and lead an 
empty, discontented life when they might be 
leading a healthy, happy, and useful one. 
Nothing is so demoralising as idleness. When 

1 Isbister & Co., London. 



284 BETTERMENT 

a man is too old to run he should walk, and 
only when broken down utterly should he be 
carried. When a man's joints stiffen and he 
cannot keep pace with the front-rank workers 
in their strenuous industrial march, he should 
be placed in the first reserve — so to speak. 
In other words, when a man ceases to be equal 
to the heavier and more strenuous work, he 
should not be shunted into a siding, but put 
to other work, lighter and requiring greater 
steadiness. The change of employment would 
in many cases be delightful, and would make 
a new man of him. As he gets older the work 
should be further lightened and the hours be 
greatly shortened. It is the monotony of work 
that kills, and it is the excessive amount of it 
that makes it distasteful. If light enough and 
varied enough it becomes play-work and is as 
delightful as any other form of recreation. 

There are difficulties and objections to this 
which I will consider presently. For instance, 
if you take a man who has been in the front 
rank and put him in an inferior post in the 
same establishment he will feel degraded. He 
will not be able to hold up his head so high 
with his associates; you are not likely to get 
much good out of him, and he will be unhappy. 
We need special organisation to meet the case. 



BETTERMENT 285 

The above objection is to the principle of 
providing an idle time for workers for a num- 
ber of years, except in the case of sickness; 
the objections to its actual working are very- 
grave indeed. In New Zealand and Australia, 
where it has been in operation for some years, 
the frauds and general demoralisation have 
been dreadful. People with properties have 
made them over to their children so as to 
qualify for the pensions. Well-to-do people 
deliberately neglect their parents and throw 
them on the care of the State. In some cases 
old people gave up comfortable homes where 
they were well cared for, drew their pensions, 
and lived in pig-sties so that they might spend 
the money in drink. In New Zealand two 
very curious cases came together before the 
court. " The first applicant was a man of 65, 
who possessed no means whatever, and whose 
record, although bad, was not quite bad enough 
to exclude him. This man obtained his pen- 
sion without any difficulty. The next appli- 
cant was a man of 82, of good character, who 
said that he had been able to support himself 
up to that time. It appeared, however, that he 
had been foolish enough to earn during the 
year a total sum of £52, and the New Zealand 
law provides that a man with such an income 



286 BETTERMENT 

can obtain no pension. The court kindly 
informed him that the only way in which he 
could become entitled to a pension was by 
remaining idle for a considerable period, when 
he could apply again, and probably with suc- 
cess ! " This, we must remember, was a man 
of 82, who for 42 years after the shunting age 
had made his own living. 

In New Zealand socialistic legislation is 
undermining the self-reliance of the people, 
who flop on the government for everything. 
The consequent demoralisation is great, for we 
know that when pensions, or any government 
money is to be scrambled for, people have a 
way of mislaying their conscience. 

Labour rule up to a certain point is beneficial, 
but in the large it is disastrous, and tends to 
class rule of a narrow and purblind kind. As 
my suggested remedy may seem to tend 
towards socialistic methods, a word must be 
said on a momentous tendency of the time. 

Individualism and Socialism: The Madness 
of Extremes 

It is not sufficiently realised that Socialism 
is the world-wide swing of the pendulum from 
the crudities of unchecked Individualism. It 



BETTERMENT 287 

is a reaction from one mad extreme to the 
other. Socialism alone is just as crude and 
incomplete as Individualism ; both are comple- 
mentary. A scientifically organised State will 
take the good of both and reject the errors of 
both. The trend towards Socialism is the 
greatest political portent of the time/ and it 
will require consummate statesmanship to deal 
successfully with it. Its power is an ever- 
growing one, and I firmly believe that its great 
enemy, the huge trusts, are unconsciously play- 
ing directly into its hands and leading the way 
to Socialism, while they fancy they are march- 
ing the other way. 

It is useless to fight Socialism by frontal 
attacks; the only plan is to emasculate it by 
adopting all the good in it and leaving it only 
its errors. There are many things that can 
be done only by collective action, and that are 
better done by the State. But, on the other 
hand, there are many things that are incom- 
parably better done by individualistic enter- 
prise, and the effect on the workers is more 
beneficial than the generally deadening — not 
to say demoralising — effect of employment 

1 This is admirably shown by John Graham Brooks in 
"The Social Unrest." (The Macmillan Company. New 
York and London.) 



288 BETTERMENT 

under governments. The majority of depart- 
ments under governments give the minimum 
results for the maximum expenditure. Indi- 
vidual initiative is crushed, or given no scope ; 
all but the highest fall under a deathly routine 
and they soon adopt the '' Government Stroke," 
which means doing the smallest possible amount 
of work. The only departments that work 
really well are those which come into the clos- 
est and most extended touch with the people. 
The post office is perhaps the best, as nearly 
every person in the State is interested in its 
efficient working and at once becomes aware 
of any serious shortcomings. The Socialist's 
idea of indefinitely extending officialdom, — of 
putting us more and more under its thumb and 
of shutting the officials themselves out from 
spheres where they would have freer and fuller 
scope for their energies, — is essentially un- 
sound and would lead to rapid decadence. 

But, as already said. Socialism is growing 
and increasing in political power, and may be- 
come the dominating factor, unless it is emas- 
culated by the frank recognition and adoption 
of all that is good in it. Our thinkers should 
work out a scheme combining all that is best 
in Individualism and Socialism; they should 
give it a happy title and then preach it and 



BETTERMENT 289 

hold it up as a working ideal in opposition to 
the unwise extremes of crude Individualism 
and of equally crude Socialism. 

I have been compelled to glance at these 
larger issues, as individual reforms can only 
be helpfully considered when viewed in rela- 
tion to some general scheme of things, some 
working ideal. Nothing in this world is iso- 
lated ; all things act and react on one another, 
and it is by losing sight of these larger rela- 
tions that would-be reformers blunder so badly. 

State Care of the Aged: but few Pensions 

In the forefront of the great competitive war 
all the youthful individual energy, initiative, 
and enterprise of the people will be needed; 
but when men become too old for the strenuous 
vanguard work, lighter employment must be 
provided for them. If individualistic enter- 
prise fails to provide it in sufficient quantity 
the State must step in and organise and foster 
industries that shall provide useful, and, so 
far as possible, profitable employment for all. 
These industries will to some extent compete 
with the standard industries of the country; 
and where the shorter hours necessitated by 
the increasing age of the workers prevent 
19 



290 BETTERMENT 

these industries fully paying their way, the rest 
of the community must be taxed to supply the 
deficiency. This would tend to check the more 
ruthless employers shunting their men as " too 
old " at an earlier age than necessary. But 
the main object should be to create and foster 
industries that will compete with standard in- 
dustries as little as possible; indeed, the home 
market might be greatly improved for the 
products of our great industries. The aim 
should be to provide homes with allotments or 
garden plots for aging workpeople, so that with 
three or four hours of light work they could 
more than support themselves, and would in- 
crease the home demand for manufactured 
articles. 

Prince Krapotkin, is his admirable work, 
" Fields, Factories, and Workshops : or In- 
dustry combined with Agriculture and Brain 
Work with Manual Work,'' ^ shows the enor- 
mous possibilities of intensive culture applied 
to small plots. By means of small glass houses, 
well selected seeds, and right manuring, the 
productivity of the soil can be so amazingly 
increased that England might easily produce 
all her own food without encroaching on 

1 G| P. Putnam's Sons, New York ; Swan, Sonnenschein & 
Co., London. 



BETTERMENT 291 

needed parks or necessary breathing spaces. 
Intensive culture is just the reverse of exten- 
sive culture. It was thought that with the vast 
prairies, where land could be had at trifling 
cost, and with machinery, the food of the world 
could be produced so cheaply that all other 
modes of culture would be superseded. But 
even in America ideas are changing, and it is 
found that intensive agriculture, which aims at 
producing more numerous and much finer crops 
on small farms by scientific methods, is the 
culture of the future. 

You cannot, however, turn the ordinary 
factory hand, when he begins to age, into a 
garden and expect the highest results without 
some training. The scheme I suggest for deal- 
ing with the old age problem gives additional 
value to boys' gardens. These give boys a 
thorough preliminary training which would not 
be forgotten even after twenty years of factory 
life. There should be proper training institu- 
tions to fit the old factory hands for their new 
occupation, and they might do as some farmers 
of the West are doing, work on the land while 
they can, and study scientific farming at the 
colleges during the winter. 

With cheap glass houses there would be 
work all the year round. The heating of these 



S92 BETTERMENT 

houses is a problem that needs to be grappled 
with. There is more than enough heat wasted 
to meet the need. Exhausted steam from fac- 
tories might be utilised, at all events in the 
projected garden cities, where the factories will 
be in close proximity to the market gardens. 
There is much heat in other forms wasted that 
might be used, and every open fire sends more 
than enough unused heat up the chimney to heat 
a glass house. The best means for turning this 
wasted heat to account presents a pretty prob- 
lem ; but the only need is for brains. There is 
one very foolish form of waste from which I 
personally sufifer a good deal. Farmers and 
gardeners alike collect masses of sticks, stalks, 
and weeds which they pile up and burn and 
pollute the air for a mile around ; all this stuff 
in properly constructed furnaces would heat 
glass houses. So what is now a great nuisance 
might be turned to an inoffensive source of 
profit. The way we waste our forces, especially 
our brain forces, is deplorable. 

The Gist of it all 

I have been able only to glance at the gen- 
eral bearings of this great subject and to throw 
out a few hints and suggestions by the way. 



BETTERMENT ^93 

But a glance only is needed to show that the 
proposal to provide old age pensions to allow 
people who can still work to live in idleness is 
essentially a demoralising one. Idleness, at 
any age, beyond what is necessary for rest 
from physical or mental work, is demoralising, 
and if people want it they must earn it by 
thrift and self-denial. The State has no right 
to grant it except in special cases as reward 
for special service, especially dangerous service, 
such as fighting for the country. But when 
workers drop out of the front ranks of the 
battle of life through age, the State is morally 
bound to provide them with work, so that they 
can earn their own living entirely or in part. 
No person who is physically, mentally, and 
morally healthy wants to be idle at any age. 
As the workers grow older the work should 
be lightened and the hours shortened, so as 
to give them only the amount of exercise 
needed for health and to give value and a 
sense of enjoyment to the hours of rest. 

The work should be of the kind suggested; 
small allotments, or garden plots, for raising 
fruit and vegetables, poultry, etc., and light 
industries should be organised to provide occu- 
pation for the winter months. This right to 
work is a milder one than the right to subsist- 



294 BETTERMENT 

ence already conceded by English Poor Laws. 
But the latter are vitiated by the pauperisation 
of the recipients and the withdrawal of civic 
rights. This should be altered for the " too 
old/' and as paying guests of the State they 
ought to be treated with honour. 

The right treatment of the sick and infirm 
is another problem with which I make no 
attempt to deal. In nearly all welfare work 
measures are taken to provide for these and 
other cases, and in some instances for provid- 
ing old age pensions. So with the inevitable 
spread of this work the problem will be sim- 
plified. The next chapter will bear to some 
extent on all these questions. 

As for the " Weary Willies," those who are 
born tired, who will not work, should have no 
civic rights at all. They should work or starve. 
And finally many of the sick and infirm would 
be . neither if they were provided with the 
pleasiant, healthful, out-door occupation here 
suggested. 



CHAPTER XIX 

THE ULTIMATE PROBLEM 

Welfare work is doing admirable service 
not only in improving the conditions of labour, 
but also in bringing employer and employed 
into closer touch. It leads to a better under- 
standing of their respective standpoints and 
does something to remove the mutual suspicion 
and distrust which have been the cause of so 
much trouble in the past. It is the task nearest 
to our hands and should be done with all our 
might. But behind this preparatory work 
there is the ultimate problem that must be 
faced sooner or later; and the sooner it is faced 
the less likely are we to have the position forced 
by crude socialistic experiments. The grow- 
ing political power of labour and socialistic 
parties throughout the world is the disturbing 
factor which has to be reckoned with, and 
which will prevent resting at any half-way 
house. While the employers, with their vast 
reserves of capital, retain so much power they 
should solve this problem or put it in train for 
solution without waiting to have their hands 



296 BETTERMENT 

forced. By adopting and developing the sys- 
tems which give most promise they will be able 
to take all the power out of future socialistic 
upheavals. There are certain systems which 
have the vital element of growth and which 
seem to combine judiciously the merits of In- 
dividualism and Socialism. At these we must 
give a passing glance. 

Profit-sharing, Prosperity-sharing^ and 
Co-partnership 

There is some division of opinion on the 
intrinsic merits of profit-sharing and the ex- 
tent of its success. Mr. W. H. Lever of 
Port Sunlight boldly challenges the prin- 
ciple and doubts its success in operation. He 
protests against the sharing of profits by 
labour unless it is prepared to share losses. 
He says : 

" Labour, in effect, says to management, 
' I cannot afford to stand any risks of this 
undertaking. Nay, I cannot risk even payment 
for my labour. You must treat me as the first 
mortgagee on the business and see that I get 
paid in full whether the business succeeds or 
fails.' And laws have been passed by govern- 
ment recognising the position taken up by 



BETTERMENT 29T 

labour^ and making it legally first mortgagee 
for wages with prior claim on all assets. Man- 
agement has to meet this claim on the part of 
labour, and does so fairly and honestly by 
applying to labour the same rules that prevail 
in the case of all others who wish to stand in 
the position of first mortgagees. Management 
says, in effect, ' I think I can arrange for you 
to be placed in that secure position, but you 
must bear in mind that I shall have to go to 
capital, and when I say you insist on being 
placed in the position of first mortgagee, to 
be paid in full whether the undertaking in 
which you are engaged succeeds or fails, cap- 
ital will certainly reply that, if capital has to 
stand all the losses, capital will most strongly 
object to your claiming a share in the profits, 
should there be any.' Labour agrees to this, 
and the bargain is struck, and if the under- 
taking prove a failure no one wastes a word 
of sympathy on capital. Capital wants no sym- 
pathy, being accustomed to such experiences 
daily." 

It is well to have this aspect of the case 
stated. That it does not, however, cover the 
ground nor answer the question, *^ What more 
than wages is due to the employee from the 
employer ? " is proved by the fact that Mr. 



298 BETTERMENT 

Lever proceeds to develop his admirable the- 
ory of '' Prosperity-Sharing/' outlined in Chap- 
ter XIV. Mr. Lever holds that labour should 
share in the prosperity of a firm, but that it 
should never take the form of a cash bonus, 
which in many cases has proved rather de- 
moralising than otherwise. He holds that the 
share of profits set aside for the benefit of the 
work-folk should be placed in a sort of reser- 
voir, to be used to further the social and 
industrial betterment of labour, — for the pro- 
motion of welfare work, the cheaper and better 
housing of the workers, and even the granting 
of pensions. But everything is done by the 
will of the management, and none of these 
things can be claimed as a right by the workers. 
Whatever the merits or defects of this ingen- 
ious scheme, it works admirably at Port Sun- 
light at present, and if it does not grapple with 
the ultimate problem it smooths the way to it, 
and may even delay its consideration for a 
generation or two. 

Profit-sharing has been successful in many 
cases, and where it has failed it has generally 
been from the faulty application of the prin- 
ciple rather than from errors in the plan itself. 
The cash bonus is apt to be harmful, leading 
to its useless or worse than useless squander- 



BETTERMENT 299 

ing. But a fruitful cause of failure, as with 
welfare work, is the loss of the personal touch. 
Workers are not machines, and the system 
itself has not yet been reduced to a science. 
It requires careful supervision and attention. 
Men and circumstances differ, and the system, 
which is still in its infancy, needs adapting to 
the special needs of each case. 

At the Conference on Welfare Work, al- 
ready referred to, profit-sharing was mentioned 
several times, and always with approval. Mr. 
Krumbhaar said : " The Solvey Process Com- 
pany has carried on profit-sharing to a limited 
extent in a system embracing the officers of 
the company, clerks, chemists, foremen, and 
sub-foremen, which has proved successful. It 
has worked out so that the men have shown 
greater care in their work and have tried to 
improve it. We have not yet carried the sys- 
tem to the workmen. That may come, and it 
may not, but it certainly worked satisfactorily 
as far as it has gone.'' 

Mr. Dexter S. Kimball, works manager of 
the Stanley Electrical Manufacturing Com- 
pany, Pittsfield, Mass., said : '^ In our shop 
we adopted a system which is a form of profit- 
sharing, and we have found it very profitable. 
We get more product and the workman gets 



300 BETTERMENT 

more pay, and that is a very beneficial form 
of profit-sharing." 

In the Journal of Social Science, Boston 
(September, 1904), there is a breezy Httle 
paper by Mr. Samuel Cabot, chemical manu- 
facturer, giving " A Seventeen- Year Trial of 
Profit-Sharing," which is convincing. He 
says: 

" At a very early period in my business 
experience it appeared to me that the rewards 
ordinarily offered to the wage-earner were not 
such as to stimulate him to the best exertion 
nor foster in him the best and kindest feelings 
towards his employer. Even to-day is it not 
true that in the great majority of cases the 
wage-earner's only stimulus is the desire to 
hold his job? In fact, is not the fear of dis- 
charge the only incentive to exertion in a large 
majority of cases? 

" Feeling as I did and still do that men can 
always be led more successfully than they can 
be driven, that Hope as leader and captain 
can accomplish more than Fear as tyrant and 
slave-driver, I set myself — ignorantly and 
crudely to be sure, but earnestly — to try 
better things. My method has grown to be 
essentially as follows : 

" Every man who enters my employ is given 



BETTERMENT 301 

the current rate of wages for similar work. 
If he desires also to participate in the profit- 
sharing he is required to sign a paper in which 
he promises to do his work as quickly and 
as carefully as possible, remembering that the 
greater the yield the greater the profits, and 
to give me sixty days' notice before leav- 
ing me. 

" On my part I promise to divide at the 
expiration of each six months a certain frac- 
tion of the profits among the participants, 
strictly in proportion to the wages of each 
during that period. The sum in each case is 
divided into two equal parts, one of which is 
given in cash to the employee and the other 
deposited in a savings-bank by me as his 
trustee. 

" This fund in the bank is in the nature of 
an insurance upon the life of the employee, and 
is given over with interest to his executors if 
he dies. It, however, does not come back into 
my hands. If he should, for instance, refuse 
to give me sixty days' notice on leaving me, 
although he had already received an equal 
amount in cash upon promise to give me such 
notice, the money would not come back to me, 
but simply be distributed among the other par- 
ticipants at the next division. The same is 
true in case of his discharge for cause. 



802 BETTERMENT 

** In case of sickness I am empowered at my 
discretion to draw upon this fund, though in 
temporary cases I always put sick men on 
half-pay for a considerable time without re- 
course to their fund. I have also the right 
to lend him money upon it to build a 
house/' 

Mr. Cabot then gives figures to prove his 
facts. The system has been in operation for 
seventeen years with very great benefit to men 
and master. The increase of efficiency has been 
so great that while the first payments averaged 
about ten per cent upon the wages of each 
man, the last payment was twenty-one per cent. 
The master's profits have increased; and the 
morale of the workmen and their contented- 
ness and willingness are of a high order. Mr. 
Cabot concludes: 

" I have, for obvious reasons, not laid any 
emphasis upon the philanthropic side of this 
enterprise, especially as I am sure it can be 
recommended to many, if not to most, manu- 
facturers and to their employees, purely upon 
its utilitarian advantages; but it is obvious 
that it stimulates both sobriety and thrift in 
workmen, and it can be made to assist men of 
family to build homes for themselves, thus 
surrounding the factory with homesteads of 



BETTERMENT 308 

men who are interested in its success and that 
of the neighbourhood. 

" From my seventeen years' experience, 
therefore, I can cordially recommend profit- 
sharing on this or a similar plan as of marked 
advantage to both employer and employed." 

" Through Labour for Labour " 

This is the title given to a very advanced 
co-operative experiment, which shows a way 
in which the workers may become their own 
capitalists ; but in this case it had to be started 
by a philanthropic capitalist, who provided for 
his own gradual effacement. This seems to 
be a weakness in the scheme which might be 
amended, but it is so ingenious that it should 
be glanced at in passing. It was initiated by 
Mr. J. C. Van Marken, a director of the 
Netherlands Yeast-and-Spirit Works, Delft, 
Holland. Mr. Van Marken was one of the 
earliest and best of the welfare workers, and 
his scheme of social organisation at Delft is 
wonderfully complete. Agneta Park, in which 
the model village for the workers has been 
built, is one of the sweetest spots I saw in 
Holland. He has been actuated by very high 
principles indeed. He says:- 



304 BETTERMENT 

" It seems to me the duty of the employer 
to aid his subordinates, by every means at his 
command, his heart, his intellect, his money, 
to attain that highest stage which alone makes 
human life worth living. My conviction is 
that in so doing the employer will make no 
sacrifices. But if he needs must make them, 
be it from the material or the moral point of 
view, let him make them up to the limits of 
his capacity. It is his sacred duty.'' 

While labour may be right in resenting any- 
thing philanthropic, yet whatever tends to 
crush out this noble spirit and to force every- 
thing down to a dollar basis does an injury to 
the State and to humanity. That will be the 
" Top Notch " nation which succeeds in infus- 
ing such a spirit of devotion to a high ideal 
into all its children. 

Although Mr. Van Marken's fellow direc- 
tors cheerfully seconded all his efforts to im- 
prove the condition of their workers, he did 
not think it right to ask them to sanction his 
more advanced experiment, so he financed it 
himself and became practically the only share- 
holder. This experiment was the starting of 
the " Van Marken Printing Works." Mr. Van 
Marken found all the capital, except a few 
gnilders supplied by a sufficient number of 



BETTERMENT 305 

holders of single shares to constitute a com- 
pany. All the workmen were regarded as 
potential shareholders, and were given the right 
to confer and vote on all matters concerning 
the Company. 

The claims of capital were regarded as 
limited by its amount and the risks run. This 
was considered as fully met by six per cent 
of the profits, representing a moderate interest 
and an insurance on the risks. This consti- 
tuted a first charge on all profits. 

Labour was considered to have the right to 
the remainder, after all contingencies had been 
allowed for. So all the workmen were given 
a ** living wage " ; beyond this they received 
a share of the profits, which were divided as 
follows : 

" After necessary deductions for the build- 
ing and machinery the shareholders (at this 
stage they were only potential shareholders) 
are to be paid for interest on capital and pre- 
mium of insurance on risk 6 per cent. . . . 
The balance of the profit is divided in the fol- 
lowing manner : 

" 25 per cent to the managing directors for 
their management. 

" 50 per cent to the workmen-shareholders, 



306 BETTERMENT 

directors, foremen, and workmen, in proportion 
to salary and wages received. 

" 3 per cent to the council for their control- 
ling work. 

" 12 per cent to the founders for services 
rendered. 

" The remaining lo per cent of profit is at 
the disposal of the general meeting and will 
be applied to the benefit of the working classes 
in general, or to the special benefit of the 
workmen-shareholders." This may be paid in 
cash ; but their share of the 50 per cent already 
mentioned is paid into the " Profit Savings- 
Bank," and as soon as the amount standing to 
the credit of a participator therein reaches the 
sum of 100 guilders (£8-6-8) that sum is paid 
to a shareholder and one share becomes the 
property of the said participator. In this way 
all the shares become the property of the 
workers, and the original capitalist is gradually 
bought out. This process had just been com- 
pleted when I visited the works in September, 
1904. 

It was calculated that it would take twenty 
years for the realisation of the motto of the 
Company, " Through Labour for Labour," and 
the works to become the property of the 
workers; but it was accomplished in twelve 
years. 



BETTERMENT 307 

Careful arrangements are made to meet the 
case of shareholders dying and leaving their 
shares to others. If this process continued 
long enough the old conditions of capital and 
labour would be reproduced. But the original 
process is continued, and, as soon as the profits 
due to the actual worker amount to loo 
guilders, a share is given to him, and such 
share has to be surrendered in their numbered 
order by the outside holder at that price. 

This interesting experiment meets some of 
the difficulties of co-operation very ingen- 
iously; but co-operation has difficulties of its 
own, especially difficulties of management. Al- 
though it is making splendid progress, it does 
not always succeed in holding its own with 
more individualistic enterprises. The system 
which seems to meet best the varied needs of 
commercial welfare is that of which Sir George 
Livesey is one of the most distinguished 
exponents. 

Copartnership Scheme 

This seems to be the best scheme yet devised 
for profit-sharing and for giving labour a voice 
in the management without impairing its effi- 
ciency, on which the very existence of a great 
business depends. 



308 BETTERMENT 

Sir George Livesey is the chairman of the 
Board of Directors of the South MetropoHtan 
Gas Company, London. Such companies are 
restricted, in the interests of the pubHc, by acts 
of Parliament, and their dividends must not 
rise beyond statutory limits. Twenty-five years 
ago Sir George was inspired by a happy thought 
for identifying the interests of the shareholders 
and gas consumers. The idea was adopted by 
Parliament, and it was enacted that " for every 
reduction below a fixed standard in the price of 
gas of one penny per i,ooo feet to the con- 
sumers an increase of one quarter per cent 
beyond the statutory limit was permitted in the 
dividends of the shareholders, and, vice versa, 
an increase of price entailed a corresponding 
reduction of dividend. It thus became a direct 
interest of the shareholder to serve the con- 
sumers well. The system has worked advan- 
tageously to both shareholders and consumers, 
making them in effect partners.'' 

But it was felt to be incomplete until the 
officers and workmen were included in the part- 
nership. This was done at the end of 1889 ^^^ 
has worked admirably; but it is noteworthy 
that such was the suspicion and distrust of the 
men, and such the jealousy for the power of 
their union, that this great boon was not con- 



BETTERMENT 309 

ferred without much trouble and a prolonged 
strike. This vein of unreason has gradually 
disappeared as the men gained wisdom and con- 
fidence in the justice and the good intentions of 
their employers. 

The acceptance of a share of the profits was 
optional ; men were free to accept or decline it 
as they thought fit. Those accepting it were 
required to sign an agreement for twelve 
months, during which they were to receive 
the current rate of wage. They must comply 
with the reasonable conditions of honesty and 
sobriety and do a fair day's work. There 
was also a proviso that any man might leave 
at a week's notice with the consent of the 
Engineer. 

" For the purpose of profit-sharing," says 
Sir George Livesey/ " on the sliding scale prin- 
ciple (already described) 2s. 8d. per i,ooo feet 
was taken as a standard price of gas, and for 
every penny below that figure at which gas 
was sold the officers and workmen were to be 
entitled to an annual bonus of i per cent on 
their salaries and wages. The standard price 
was fixed at this figure in order to start with a 

1 "Paper on the Profit-Sharing Scheme," read by Sir George 
Livesey before the Copartnership Conference of the Labour 
Association, at Newcastle- on-Tyne, 



310 BETTERMENT 

bonus of 5 per cent (the actual price at the 
time being 2s. 3d. per 1,000, or five-pence below 
the standard), and to allow for a possible in- 
crease of price without reducing the bonus to a 
vanishing point. To give the proposal a good 
start, all who accepted it were credited with the 
amount of bonus, averaging 3 per cent, that 
they would have received on the above scale 
during the three preceding years, which, how- 
ever, was not payable in cash until 1894, and 
was called a * Nest Egg.' 

" From the outset two objects of equal im- 
portance have always been kept in view, viz. : 
to attach the workmen to the company by giv- 
ing them a direct interest in its prosperity be- 
yond their salaries and wages, and to give them 
the opportunity to practise thrift, thus improv- 
ing their position in life and making provision 
for misfortune and old age, — in short, to 
enable them to lift themselves from poverty to 
independence. To accomplish the second ob- 
ject the company gave the men the option of 
leaving their annual bonus (it was payable on a 
week's notice at any time) on deposit at 4 per 
cent interest. An unexpectedly large propor- 
tion of the employees from the first availed 
themselves of this opportunity, while some in- 
vested it in a Building Society started by the 



BETTERMENT 311 

employees, and others used it to purchase the 
company's stock. On the other hand, rather 
more than half of the profit sharers year by 
year withdrew their bonus every July as soon as 
it was declared. But it may be safely said that 
few of them derived any permanent benefit from 
the system. Such men are its weakness and 
often the cause of its failure." 

The profit-sharing system is largely auto- 
matic; but a committee was formed to deal 
with all matters connected with it. This com- 
mittee consists of eighteen workmen, elected 
by ballot by their fellows, and eighteen nomi- 
nees of the directors, — the chairman of the 
Board being chairman of the committee. This 
committee had to be large in order that all 
classes might be represented ; but it has always 
worked harmoniously and well. It has been 
allowed great latitude, and the discussions have 
been helpful and educative. It has promoted 
mutual confidence, and has brought out many 
valuable suggestions. The quorum is seven- 
teen, and it is wisely provided that at least 
eight of these shall be workmen. Many read- 
justments have had to be made from time to 
time, such as adjusting interest on deposits to 
current rates, but these have always been cheer- 
fully acquiesced in. Their confidence having 



312 BETTERMENT 

been won, the workmen always acted like rea- 
sonable business men. 

After five years' working it was seen that 
profit-sharing was a step in the right direc- 
tion, but that its full benefits could be attained 
only if it led to shareholding. So in 1894 the 
directors '' proposed to increase the rate of 
bonus from i per cent to 1% per cent on sal- 
aries and wages per id. on the price of gas, on 
condition that one-half only of the bonus should 
be payable in cash or left on deposit, the other 
half to be invested in the company's ordinary 
stock at the market price of the day. This pro- 
posal was accepted." The company, with part 
of the money deposited, buys stock when the 
market is favourable, so that the profit-sharing 
shareholders, when their stock is allotted to 
them, get their shares at less than current rates. 
This is highly appreciated by the workmen, who 
are keenly alive to the market value of their 
property. 

Labour's share in the Management 

'' Having advanced," says Sir George Live- 
sey, " from simple profit-sharing in 1889 to 
shareholding in 1894, adopting the principle of 
the Labour Association, . . . there remained 
yet the further and final step of responsibility 



BETTERMENT 313 

in management. It was felt that sooner or 
later, men whose savings, in many cases their 
whole savings, were invested in the company's 
stock would desire a share in the management 
of the property, or at least they would wish to 
know how it was managed ; but this was not at 
all imminent. The ordinary stock of the com- 
pany was worth over £5,000,000, while the 
value of the aggregate investment of the em- 
ployees did not exceed £20,000. The question, 
however, was not one to be decided by rule 
of three, it being governed by larger and higher 
considerations. These considerations were that 
the sooner a beginning was made in educating 
workmen to understand and deal with the com- 
mercial aspect of business, the better ; that the 
opportunity should be given them of learning 
to look at the employers' side of industrial ques- 
tions as well as their own; that they should 
take a share of responsibility; in short, that 
they should be lifted from the status of children 
to that of men, from hireling to partner in the 
fullest possible sense." 

Fears were expressed by some of the direc- 
tors that workmen directors would be swayed 
by their class bias, and by the glib talkers among 
them ; and that they would not rise to consider 
the general welfare of the Company and all its 



314 BETTERMENT 

varied interests. Those who best knew the 
workmen declared that such fears were ground- 
less, and events proved them right. 

" After some trouble the necessary parlia- 
mentary consent was obtained, and the act 
passed which gave power to elect employee 
directors when the aggregate amount of stock 
held by the profit-sharing employees exceeded 
£40,000 nominal value — the market value 
being over £56,000. This was done last year, 
and two workmen took their seats on the board 
as directors. They have been treated by the 
other directors as one with themselves, have 
done the work of directors, and have won the 
confidence and respect of all their colleagues; 
moreover, the objection that a man could not 
be a director one day and a simple workman 
under the orders of a foreman the remaining 
five has, so far, been shown to be groundless." 

As the voting had to follow the rules of 
Joint Stock Companies, the most thrifty work- 
men had most votes ; so the result was excellent. 
Very great interest was taken in the voting by 
the workmen, five-sixths of the total votes being 
recorded. 

The results have exceeded expectations in 
all directions. The men work better, and work 
machinery to its full power, inducing the Com- 



BETTERMENT 315 

pany to apply it extensively. The consequence 
is that this Company can produce gas more 
cheaply than the others; and the Company's 
stock stands at a higher relative value than that 
of any other Gas Company. 

Sir George Livesey says : " I have been in 
the Company's service in various capacities 
since 1848, — assistant to my father, then as 
engineer, next engineer and secretary, then 
director, and for fourteen years chairman. I 
remember well the old friendly relations when 
every man was known personally, and the 
kindly feeling that then existed; but never 
have the relations of employer and employed 
been on such a footing of mutual confidence 
and good-will as during the last ten years. 
Each feels quite free to speak to the other 
with the respect due from man to man on 
any subject, and reason rules on both sides. 
Of course this is a general statement, for 
amongst the large number of men employed 
there are exceptions to the rule, but their fel- 
lows do not put them forward and they have 
no perceptible influence. Such friendly rela- 
tions have existed since profit-sharing was in- 
troduced as to induce cheerful, willing work, 
which has considerable, although unascertain- 
able, money value." 



316 BETTERMENT 

Experience has shown that the one thing to 
avoid is dead-leveHsm, the indiscriminate giving 
of profit-shares to good, bad, and indifferent 
workmen. When this is done the good men get 
discouraged, and the others take it as a matter 
of course, and affairs return to their former bad 
condition. Only those who show themselves 
worthy should be allowed to sign agreements. 
The cash bonus should be avoided wherever 
possible, as it is apt to be squandered with de- 
moralising effects. 

When the system is operated intelligently, as 
by the South Metropolitan Gas Company, the 
results have exceeded all expectations. The 
men take an intelligent interest in their work 
and the welfare of the Company, and make 
valuable suggestions for improvements in ap- 
paratus and method. Many have obtained 
homes of their own, and thrift has been pro- 
moted. *' The advantages the men derive from 
the system are educative, — a general elevation 
and strengthening of character in those who re- 
spond to the principle, besides the material 
improvement in their position, of which the ac- 
cumulation of over £125,000 is a sure indica- 
tion. It is also an advantage to them, as well 
as to their employers, that they do their work 



BETTERMENT 317 

in a happy, contented frame of mind, rather 
than in an indifferent spirit." 

Dr. Frank Parsons of the Economic Club, 
Boston, recently called this the finest system in 
the world. It certainly goes far toward the 
solution of the Ultimate Problem. 



CHAPTER XX 

CONCLUSION 

We have now travelled over a very wide 
field, glancing at the best means yet discovered 
for promoting individual and collective effi- 
ciency, and at the various movements making 
for industrial peace and for human betterment. 
We have seen that, owing to the tendency of 
the higher-class women to shirk maternal cares, 
children will have an increasing value for the 
State; that each healthy child is a potential 
mine of wealth and strength, that may be real- 
ised by thorough training if begun at the 
earliest age ; and that, if this be neglected, the 
same child may be worse than a plague spot, 
tainting its own and coming generations with 
disease and criminal tendencies. So it would 
pay every State to surround all its children 
with a '* cordon of care,'' and take as much 
trouble to prevent an untrained child being let 
loose on society as is done when it suffers 
from some contagious disease. It is character- 
forming influences, such as those of the kinder- 
garten, that are most needed, and they cannot 
be brought to bear too early. 



BETTERMENT 319 

Later, manual training is most important, 
and it should be sufficiently vigorous to supply 
physical exercise, and varied enough to claim 
some of the interest now largely wasted on 
games. The kindergarten system might be 
extended with advantage so as to be adapted 
to children of larger growth; object-lessons 
might be made to give the basis of a scientific 
training. The more faculties that can be 
appealed to, the better, as information con- 
veyed by sight, touch, and hearing will out- 
last book-learning. The love of books will 
follow the early grappling with realities. 

In the matter of health we have seen how 
it is possible to attain and maintain the best 
of health, not only at no cost, but at a very 
great saving of money and of vital energy. 
The Fletcher system shows us how we may 
be always in training and be enabled to respond 
to any call on our muscular energies with the 
minimum of fatigue, and with none of that 
poisoning of the muscles known as stiffness. 
It also teaches us how to obtain the most 
delicate Epicurean enjoyments from the most 
simple foods.^ Should this information come 
too late and a person be already suffering 

1 ''Eat less, but eat it more''' is Dr. W. H. Allchin's 
epigrammatic summary of Fletcherism. 



320 BETTERMENT 

from any of the more serious, doctor-baffling 
diseases, there is a means in the Heroic Cure 
of putting oneself under the best physician in 
the world — Dr. Nature, who not only makes 
no charge, but actually puts money in one's 
pocket and is always at hand. By living 
awhile on our stored-up food capital all the 
enormous supply of vital energy spent in 
digesting food can be used by Nature to cure 
the disease. The mental factor in disease is 
also very potent. We have an invaluable 
physician in the mind. By casting out fear 
and willing to be well we can do more for 
ourselves than all the doctors with all the 
drugs in the pharmacopoeia. In fresh air and 
in deep breathing we have the best of all tonics 
and medicines. From all the lines of our in- 
vestigation the plea for the " Simple Life " 
receives manifold endorsement. 

In dealing with collective efficiency we found 
among the higher industrial developments the 
Suggestion System, initiated by Mr. John H. 
Patterson, to be of quite exceptional value and 
to have possibilities for good not yet realised. 
It turns the whole organisation into a world- 
wide " Intelligence Department,'' and focuses 
thousands of brains on the problem of better- 
ing the business, and has turned it, in the case 



BETTERMENT 821 

of the National Cash Register, into a " 5,000 
Brain Power Organisation." This tapping the 
brains of all the workers has not only proved 
of great value to every business where it has 
been tried, but also meets a need in human 
nature. There is always a craving for some 
gentle excitement, a looking forward to pos- 
sible prizes, the working out of problems, and 
the taking part in grand functions that have 
the excitement and the surprises of a lottery. 
This craving at present is largely met in ways 
that are apt to be pernicious, or in ways in 
which all the brain powers employed are wasted. 
So many journals give prizes for the solution 
of puzzles or problems that waste nervous 
energy enough for a week's work. Betting on 
sporting events, gambling, and other feverish 
excitements are equally wasteful and more 
demoralising. The Suggestion System, as 
already pointed out, meets all these needs in 
a legitimate and healthy way, stimulating the 
inventive faculties and concentrating them on 
the work in hand. This gives additional in- 
terest in the work, and there is always the 
chance of a prize at one of the grand half- 
yearly functions. For these and many other 
reasons the Suggestion System should be uni- 
versally adopted. 

21 



S22 BETTERMENT 

In welfare work we found one of the most 
promising movements of the time, fraught with 
manifold beneficent possibilities. It uplifts all 
the conditions of labour, tends to industrial 
peace and mutual understandings, and a better 
all-round feeling between employer and em- 
ployed. The better feeling between them is 
an inestimable boon, as fuming and fretting, 
antagonism and resentment, bring about the 
most unwholesome and unprofitable frame of 
mind in which it is possible to work. Welfare 
work has liberated a host of beneficent activ- 
ities, educational, economic, and recreative; 
and, as it has been shown to pay all who have 
given it a trial, it is bound to spread and grow 
until it covers the whole of the industrial field. 
It will set a standard that the meanest em- 
ployer will not dare to disregard. 

Welfare work prepares the way for the 
settlement of the ultimate problems that must 
be grappled. with in the future. These concern 
the reconciliation of the interests of capital, 
labour, and management. Mr. W. H. Lever 
is quite right in treating it as a threefold 
problem instead of a twofold problem — cap- 
ital and labour — as without good manage- 
ment labour and capital may come to grief. 
Capital and labour are abundant and common 



BETTERMENT 323 

enough, but management is a fine art, and the 
supreme manager is as rare as any other form 
of genius. 

The examples given of profit-sharing, pros- 
perity-sharing, and co-partnership show the 
ways in which these problems are being tenta- 
tively solved, and their full solution is hope- 
fully near. 

Some of these great industrial concerns with 
their world-wide ramifications are wonders of 
organisation. They are scientific up to a cer- 
tain point ; beyond that, where new departures 
have to be made to meet new conditions, they 
are wonders of art, of skill, and foresight. 

When we view these triumphs of fore- 
thoughtful management it is difficult to avoid 
contrasting them with the slipshod, wasteful 
methods of even the best governed nations or 
States. Party government, the system of the 
most advanced nations, is wofully wasteful 
and demoralising. Instead of getting a long 
pull, a strong pull, and a pull all together, for 
the welfare of the State, we get a paralysing 
tug of war between the " ins " and the " outs." 
Party misrepresentations so transparent as to 
insult our intelligence are poured forth day 
by day with the coolest effrontery, the aim 
being not to get at the truth, but to damage the 



324 BETTERMENT ' 

other party. It is difficult enough to get at 
the truth of any proposition, as everything 
looks so different from different standpoints, 
and when things are looked at in the interests 
not of the State but of party, confusion becomes 
worse confounded. 

The absence of a generally accepted working 
ideal adds to the confusion of tongues. Affairs 
are regarded too narrowly, from too low a 
standpoint, and with little or no comprehen- 
sion of the great world-movements which flow 
on to their appointed goal as resistlessly as 
fate. Gauge these tendencies, harness these 
currents, and your work will increasingly pros- 
per; ignore or oppose them, and you become 
a straw on the stream, borne along helplessly 
to a goal you cannot see. 

Another defect of party government is that 
one half of our presumably best statesmen and 
administrators are among the " unemployed " 
much of the time. As soon as a minister has 
been long enough in office to master the mani- 
fold details of his department the '' outs " come 
in and he is shunted to rust and forget on the 
opposition benches. This throws undue power 
into the hands of the permanent officials, who, 
with their conservative routine and red-tape, 
hold the threads of the complex business. The 



BETTERMENT 325 

minister is dependent upon them, and the real 
rulers shift responsibility to the figurehead. 
Thus representative government becomes a 
farce. Fancy a great business company shunt- 
ing its managers as soon as they have mastered 
their work, and condemning them to be mere 
outlookers while novices master the compli- 
cated machinery of management. Then as 
soon as they are rusty and the novices have 
mastered the work the latter are shunted in 
turn and the rusty managers gather up the 
reins once more! 

Then again, we are practically governed by 
amateurs; the very thought of professional 
politicians makes the Britisher squirm. This 
shows how utterly at sea we are, and how 
greatly we need to push on to the next stage 
of political evolution. What this will be, it is 
difficult to guess ; but it is manifest that States 
will have to be organised scientifically on lines 
somewhat analogous to these great business 
organisations. 

We need something analogous to the Sug- 
gestion System to focus the best mental 
energies of all on the problems of good gov- 
ernment. Those who could make the best sug- 
gestions are in the position of the workman 
of old who dared not make a suggestion for 



/ -^ OF THE •^, 

326 BETTERMENT 

fear of being told to mind his own business, or 
of having his suggestion credited to someone 
else. 

We need, moreover, a thoroughly organised 
system of promotion from top to bottom. 
Those who aspire to the highest places should 
begin with the lowest, and every upward step 
should be the reward of good work. In ex- 
ceptional cases only should any one be eligible 
as a member of parliament until he has earned 
the promotion by a record of good work done 
on local councils, in municipal afifairs. Mr. 
Chamberlain won his spurs in the Birmingham 
Municipal Council, and that was the best of 
all discipline. By this means, by the time they 
were eligible as legislators men would no 
longer be amateurs, but highly trained men; 
and scrupulous honesty should be an essential 
condition of advancement. 

Our business men are teaching us better than 
the political economists, as they have come face 
to face with realities, and have been taught by 
dearly bought experience. Their words appeal 
to business men. The fact that some of the 
most strenuous, up-to-date, " lightning " firms 
are continually preaching the value of thor- 
ough honesty and straight dealing, and the 
dollar value of a high morale, will do more 



BETTERMENT 327 

to discredit the moral obliquity of the smart 
set in business than a thousand sermons. The 
Japanese are showing us the value of a high 
national morale, and the " top notch '' nation 
of the future will be the one having the highest 
ideals. Dishonesty, even when bedecked with 
flowery titles, is a disease, whether in nations 
or individuals. This is dimly realised in the 
innermost heart of the great republic; they 
wish for an able man as President, but the first 
condition is that he shall be an honest one. 
So in the system of national promotion I am 
advocating, the first condition of promotion 
should be ability combined with straightness, 
incorruptibility, and no one should be eligible 
as a legislator who has not been tried in the 
fire. People are apt to mislay their conscience 
when dealing with government or matters per- 
taining to it. It ought to be understood that 
in cheating government we are cheating mil- 
lions of men instead of one, and this fact in- 
creases rather than lessens the crime. These 
facts need emphasis not so much on moral 
grounds as on the ground of efficiency. All 
this looseness and moral obliquity means bad 
business, means inefficiency. Our system is 
hampered by innumerable checks and counter- 
checks to prevent dishonesty; their real effect 



328 BETTERMENT 

is to relieve public servants of responsibility. 
When matters go wrong nobody is to blame. 

My reason for touching on this state of 
affairs is that it all bears on human betterment. 
I believe we have much to learn from the great 
business organisations at which we have been 
glancing. If a few of these great organisers 
could have a free hand for a time in re- 
organising public departments there would be 
such a cleansing of the Augean stables as would 
dwarf the labours of Hercules, and we should 
get things better done at one-third of the cost. 
In England, to be sure, there are many great 
business men in Parliament; but they are 
smothered there by the hoary traditions of the 
place, the flood of talk, and the red-tape which 
binds them hand and foot. In addition, there 
is the paralysing system of party government, 
in which they are opposed at every step by 
men as able as themselves, not because the step 
is wrong, but because it is opposed to party 
interests. When the English secure men like 
Admiral (Admirable) Sir John Fisher and 
Lord Kitchener, and give them a little free- 
dom, good work is done. How long are we to 
consent to be governed by party conflict, with 
its demoralising train of misrepresentation, in- 
stead of by co-operation on business lines ? 



BETTERMENT 329 

I sometimes fancy that the answer to this 
question will come from the most unexpected 
quarter. The stupendous organisations known 
as trusts and combines present one of the most 
momentous problems of the time. They will 
grow just as fast as they can be thoroughly 
organised and the problems of management 
can be solved. In time their power will be 
so great that there will be only two alterna- 
tives; they will annex the State, or the State 
will have to annex them! In either case they 
will become huge public departments; then all 
the other governmental departments will have 
to be brought into line with their business-like 
methods, and all will have to be scientifically 
organised. 

It was this idea in my mind that induced 
me to say that the trusts were unconsciously 
doing more for the socialists than the socialists 
could do for themselves! 

The task of the time is the perfecting of all 
forms of organisation. Employers and em- 
ployed have organised extensively for war 
against each other ; now we need organisations 
to promote industrial peace. The National 
Civic Federation, which has its headquarters 
in New York, is the best type of such organi- 
sations. Mr. Ralph H. Easley, the chairman 



380 BETTERMENT 

of the Executive Council, has been one of the 
moving spirits in this beneficent movement, and 
has recently been giving an admirable sum- 
mary of its work and objects. He tells us of 
the large number of strikes, lockouts, and boy- 
cotts it has already prevented, and the number 
of trade agreements it has been instrumental 
in getting adopted. The excellent work done 
by the Welfare Work department has already 
been touched upon. Of its aims Mr. Easley 
says : " The entire movement represented by 
the National Civic Federation aims to bring 
into co-operation the sane and patriotic leaders 
of the forces of employer and employed, and 
of the interested, but too often forgotten and 
forgetting third party, the general public. Its 
purpose is constructive, not destructive. It 
would develop, through the agencies here 
described, the latest and best elements in the 
organisations of capital and labour, and it 
would keep awake a wholesome public concern 
on the profit of the one, the welfare of the 
other, and the prosperity of all, through the 
diffusion of an intelligent understanding of 
economic laws." 

That is the right spirit. There are organisa- 
tions of employers formed to fight all demands 
of labour and spurning conciliation. They may 



BETTERMENT S31 

be safely left to the teaching of events. There 
IS a tide in the affairs of men, but it is not 
going their way. The National Civic Federa- 
tion has chosen the better part. 

It has been my aim throughout to keep 
everything on a business basis ; I have steadily 
insisted on the dollar value of welfare work 
and the other movements; I have urged their 
adoption because they pay; but there can be 
little doubt that dollars won by these uplifting 
agencies carry compound interest on the higher 
planes. , 



APPENDIX A 

"studies in character building" 

I HAVE just received a copy of Mrs. Kel- 
logg's new book under the above title, to which 
I have long looked forward with great interest. 
It is a work that should be in the hands of 
all those who have to do with children — and 
those who have n't. It is so full of serene 
wisdom, insight, and sympathy. The author 
is the wife of Dr. J. H. Kellogg, of the famous 
Battle Creek Sanitarium, and gives us the re- 
sults of his ripe wisdom in these matters as 
well. It is issued by the Good Health Pub- 
lishing Company, Battle Creek, Michigan. 
When I remember the results of Dr. and Mrs. 
Kellogg's training of all sorts and conditions 
of future men and women I am prepared to 
accept their words as the most weighty that 
could be uttered on this momentous subject. 
Mrs. Kellogg gives not only the results of her 
own experience, but also the brightest thoughts 
of the character-builders who have done most 
for rising generations. 



BETTERMENT 333 

The motto of the book is from Horace 
Mann : " Where anything is growing, one 
formatory is worth more than a thousand re- 
formatories.'' In the chapter headed " Held 
in Trust " we are told that during the first 
seven years the mind receives more impressions 
than in all the after years; so they offer a 
w^onderful opportunity for parents to preoccupy 
the soil with good so that there will be no 
room for evil. Training cannot be begun too 
early. When an anxious mother asked a wise 
teacher when she ought to begin to train her 
three weeks old child he replied, " Madam, if 
you have not already commenced to train him, 
you have lost three priceless weeks." Person- 
ally, I have long held this view, and have seen 
numberless evils resulting from its neglect. 

Mrs. Kellogg places the necessary " Parents' 
Equipment " very high. As children are so 
imitative, parents should lead the way. Fore- 
most among the essentials of the parents' equip- 
ment is endless patience, then self-control and 
loyalty to truth. Keep your word with chil- 
dren though the heavens should fall, — to vary 
the Latin proverb. Other high qualities are 
needed; indeed, to train children is to train 
oneself. 

The value of Froebel's " Come let us live 



884 BETTERMENT 

with our children " is emphatically insisted 
upon. It must be a sympathetic living with 
them in every way, — seeing with their eyes, 
feeling with their feelings, and adopting their 
standpoint as much as possible. Above all, we 
should answer the thousand and one questions 
they ask; never drive them in on themselves 
and lose their confidence. I know that the 
best part of my education came through asking 
questions, as I then obtained the knowledge I 
wanted and when I wanted it. To cram chil- 
dren with knowledge they do not want just 
then is to sicken them with it. Mrs. Kellogg 
wisely urges that " Do " should take the place 
of the everlasting " Don't." When they make 
a request to be allowed to do something that 
might be dangerous, instead of denying that 
request raise a counter attraction and start 
them on a new track. 

Lure the child upward by praising every 
good thing he does rather than by always scold- 
ing his faults. Train their vigorous impulses 
into right channels instead of opposing them. 
" The force even behind a bad temper becomes 
noble when turned into the right channel. Self- 
will and obstinacy rightly educated are trans- 
formed into courage of conviction and strength 
of purpose." 



BETTERMENT 335 

The paramount importance of obedience is 
insisted on. It must become a habit, and can- 
not be begun too early. There must be abso- 
lute consistency; not a severe discipHne one 
day and laxity the next. Commands must 
never be above a child's strength. Requests 
should take the place of commands whenever 
possible. There should be no conflict of wills, 
no controversy. A gentle punishment should 
follow disobedience with the passionlessness of 
a natural law. It should be shown that all 
commands are for the child's own good, and 
that parents themselves are subject to higher 
laws which they have to obey or suffer. As 
few commands as possible should be laid on the 
child. Wisdom, tact, endless patience, and a 
special study of each case are necessary to train 
strong wills in the way they should go. 

All departments of child-training and char- 
acter-building are treated with rare wisdom 
and insight ; and throughout example is shown 
to be better than precept. The beginning of 
wisdom in this work is to discern the boundless 
possibilities of good or evil presented by every 
child. To develop the good and repress the evil 
brings a double benediction on trainer and 
trained. 



APPENDIX B 

THE NEED OF A LEGION OF HONOUR IN AMERICA 

When institutions outrun human nature, and 
deep-lying instincts find no outlet for their legit- 
imate expression, they will make channels for 
themselves in undesirable ways. As Socialism 
is the swing of the pendulum from the crudi- 
ties of unchecked individualism, so, I believe. 
Democracy is the swing to the other extreme 
from the evils of Aristocracy. True wisdom 
would extract the good from both; and no 
progressive nation should allow itself to be 
ruled by the dead hand of an outgrown ideal. 

Human nature is balked in its truest and 
highest instincts unless it has legitimate means 
of honouring distinguished service to the State. 
People need the means of expressing their 
gratitude, and of honouring those who have 
served them; they also need the stimulus of 
such rewards to strive for. Human nature re- 
volts against dead-levelism ; and there is a 
gratifying picturesqueness about a decorated 
class. When those decorations have been fairly 



BETTERMENT 337 

won, and every man and woman in the State ^ 
has the chance of winning them by noble public 
service, there is no valid reason why any nation, 
however democratic, should deny itself so valu- 
able an institution. 

Where these legitimate and useful instincts 
are balked by faulty institutions, they will find 
expression in undesirable ways. We see so 
many of America's wealthy daughters marrying 
members of European aristocracies. We see 
numerous attempts to form little aristocracies 
of their own, the qualification being descent from 
the pioneers of the " Mayflower," or in another 
case, from those who fought in the Revolution. 
I have met members of these aristocratic bodies 
abroad wearing decorations that an English 
nobleman would not wear except on special oc- 
casions. If the State will not decorate its 
worthy children they will decorate themselves. 
Then, again, the most democratic of the demo- 
cratic — the wage-workers of the United States 
— bestow the honour of knighthood on them- 
selves ; they are the " Knights of Labour " and 
there are " Knights of the Loyal Guard " ; The 
ladies, God bless them, go one (or several) 

^ Obviously I use the word " State " in its broadest, its 
abstract meaning, and not with reference to States in the 
Union. 



338 BETTERMENT 

better; not content with the simple title of 
" Duchess '' " Countess," or " My Lady," they 
are " King's Daughters," nothing less than 
Princesses, and they doubtless grace the title 
better than some of those born in the purple. 

This craving for distinction, this protest 
against the drab monotony of dead-levelism, is 
human nature overleaping the barriers of im- 
perfect institutions; and it is curious that the 
long heads of America should have overlooked 
its meaning. Swayed by the ideas of the 
French Revolution, Americans acclaimed the 
Rights of Man ; and when the slaves were freed 
they were given the full rights of citizenship. 
This is now seen to have been a big blunder; 
and it showed that the ideas of the French 
Revolution were touched with the reactionary 
madness of extremes, and should h^ve set men 
thinking, so as to discern the need of a new and 
truer ideal. 

From the business standpoint, we have in the 
Suggestion System a most valuable stimulus to 
higher endeavour. In the system of promotion 
for noble service rendered, there is another in- 
valuable means of bringing the best men to the 
top, and of rewarding them with the title of 
President, Vice-President, Manager, etc. A 
nation must have an aristocracy, or it will be 



BETTERMENT S39 

bossed by a plutocracy. The fault with the old- 
world aristocracies is their hereditary character. 
A man may have been ennobled for really noble 
service to the State, and his son, who may have 
rendered a disservice to the nation by his dis- 
soluteness and his demoralising idleness, will 
yet wear the title won by his father, and its 
national value is gone. All that is valuable, or 
legitimate in the democratic claim is met by 
giving every citizen an equal chance and equal 
justice. Every citizen should be a possible 
President, and if there is a decorated order of 
merit it should be open to all, and the rich man 
should have no advantage in the race over the 
poor man. Merit, good service in every way 
that helps forward the nation and humanity, 
should be the only road to these distinctions. 

The French Legion of Honour offers a model 
of an institution that would meet the very real 
needs of Americans for rewarding their distin- 
guished citizens, offering rewards that would 
stimulate others to do beneficent work. This 
order of merit was instituted by Napoleon in 
the interests of republican principles and the 
laws of equality, as all were eligible for the 
honour. It has had a full century's trial, and 
many changes have been made ; so it offers the 
practical pointers for starting it on improved 



340 BETTERMENT 

lines. Its good points could be taken and im- 
proved, and its weak points eliminated. The 
classes could be arranged to meet the newer 
needs, and the circumstances of the new world ; 
but the stars, crosses, ribbons, and titles should 
be retained and improved upon, and every care 
should be taken to make membership a real 
distinction. 

Naturally there would be numerous abuses 
to be guarded against, but none pass the wit of 
man to prevent. Such an order of merit, an 
aristocracy of real noble men, would meet a 
deep-seated need of human nature ; and it might 
be made an invaluable stimulus to high 
endeavour. 



APPENDIX C 

A NEW AND WORKABLE SCHEME OF LAND 
NATIONALISATION 

We are only playing at political economy un- 
til this fundamental problem is solved on prac- 
tical lines. Its vital importance is recognised 
by all economists, but the solutions proposed 
are too drastic, and would require the forces of 
a revolution to carry them. The changes pro- 
posed are on too large a scale, and would cause 
a general unsettlement of a quite surprising 
number of interests that cluster around the land. 
The only practical plan is to make small begin- 
nings and let them grow, so that the various 
involved interests may gradually readjust them- 
selves to the changed and changing conditions. 
The land should be nationalised or municipal- 
ised, by a slow automatic process that would 
bring it about as a sinking fund eats up a debt. 
My scheme is designed for Great Britain ; but 
the problem will press for solution everywhere 
sooner or later. 

It is useless to apply the laws of abstract jus- 
tice to such a complicated case. There has been 



34S BETTERMENT 

endless land-grabbing from time immemorial, 
and a restitution and refunding of the appro- 
priated revenue would alone meet the demands 
of abstract justice. But this is impossible, 
owing to the complexity of the case, and any 
attempt to that end would work injustice on 
many innocent holders. 

The only workable plan is one that should 
gain the consent of the far-sighted landlords, 
and meet the current business notions of fair- 
play. The consideration that would weigh with 
wise landlords is that they would secure better 
terms now than at any future time. The steady 
growth in the power of the socialists and of 
labour parties the world over is the one porten- 
tous sign of the times ; and the longer the set- 
tlement of this question is delayed, the sterner 
will be the reckoning. 

In a scientifically organised State the land 
would belong to all, and the rent which now 
goes into private pockets would pay all the ex- 
penses now met by rates and taxes; so every 
penny we pay in that way is the price of the 
original folly of parting with national property. 
The germinal idea of the plan by which this 
may be rectified is roughly this : — 

A short time ago the English Chancellor of 
the Exchequer took fourpence off the Income 



BETTERMENT 343 

Tax. Had this been continued for another year, 
nobody could have felt it as a very grievous 
burden; yet it would have produced eight or 
ten millions surplus. Suppose this had been 
used to buy land already on the market at cur- 
rent rates. This land would bring in about 
£400,000 a year (more or less; the figures are 
only for illustration). The fourpence could 
have been taken ofif the Income Tax ; and the 
Government would have had this £400,000 as 
rent. One-half of this could have been devoted 
to revenue purposes, lightening taxation to that 
extent; and the other half used to buy more 
land. 

The Government would have thus an ever- 
increasing fund to lighten taxation on the one 
hand, and to buy more land on the other. The 
Government being in the field as a purchaser 
would at once send up land values; holders 
would stiffen, and hold out for fancy prices. 
This could be met in various ways. One plan 
would be to take all the land needed at present 
valuation, deducting the increase caused by the 
national purchases. This would savour of co- 
ercion and would raise objections; but it would 
be eminently just, as the nation would reap by 
this means the enormous unearned increment 
caused by the Government's buying, and the 



344 BETTERMENT 

increase in value of agricultural land when the 
new fiscal policy is adopted, as it will be sooner 
or later. In this difficult matter we must con- 
sent to be generous as well as just. 

Another and more feasible plan would be 
to put a very slight tax on the increased selling 
value of land; this would lessen taxation in 
other directions, and give the Government more 
funds to meet the increased price put on land. 
The attempts now being made to tax ground 
values already concedes this principle. The 
Land Nationalisation Society (London) re- 
cently passed a resolution expressing the " de- 
sire to see local bodies endowed with powers to 
levy a moderate tax upon land values, and to 
purchase land at the price declared to be its 
value for purposes of taxation.'' 

Other difficulties would arise later when the 
question of entail, and the thousand and one 
complications of landholding come up, but they 
could be met as they occur. 

What I have pictured the Government doing 
on a big scale, could be done, and done better, 
by the great municipalities on a smaller scale as 
opportunity occurred. By a small initial eflfort 
the scheme could be started and left to grow. 
The ultimate aim of the State is to become the 
sole ground-landlord, and to appropriate the 



BETTERMENT 345 

unearned increment which now goes into pri- 
vate pockets. A very small first sacrifice would 
suffice to start it, and it would be a sort of mus- 
tard seed planted that would silently grow to 
heaven-kissing proportions. A single million- 
aire might begin it, and raise a monument to 
himself such as no conqueror has ever earned; 
or it might be initiated with very much less ef- 
fort than the '' settlement " (only the beginning 
of other difficulties) which the Irish land ques- 
tion is costing. 

The great merit of this scheme is that it is on 
purely business lines, and might be started with 
the first surplus the Government has; such as 
that of this year. It would require no violent 
agitation, and no big Parliamentary majority; 
and it conflicts with no current notions of what 
is right and just. It might be begun with no 
special mandate, any more than Beaconsfield 
required for the purchase of the Suez Canal 
shares which turned out such a splendid invest- 
ment for the nation. And that was a small 
matter compared with the beneficent effects that 
would flow from the scheme here proposed. 



APPENDIX D 
MINISTERS OF HUMANITY 

AN INTERESTING EXPERIMENT IN SCHOOL 
MANAGEMENT 

Among the many educational experiments 
prompted by the eager excelsior spirit of the 
Americans, that initiated at the Nashville Agri- 
cultural and Normal School is especially inter- 
esting. Under the able leadership of Professors 
E. A. Sutherland and Percy T. Magan, the 
troublesome problems of school management are 
being simplified by means which relieve the 
teachers and give the pupils valuable additional 
training. 

This institution, which received some of its 
inspiration from Battle Creek, is a training 
school for what might be called ministers of 
humanity. All are pledged to serve the race, 
and to minister to its manifold needs. The 
education is free, and everything is done to 
soften the tyranny of King Dollar. Work is 
exalted and idleness is condemned as a soul and 
body-killing canker. Children of the million- 
aire are " levelled up " to those of the poor by 



\ 



BETTERMENT 347 

the ennobling dignity of work. Responsibility- 
is early thrown on all, and every means taken 
to draw out their power of managing and of 
dealing with practical affairs. 

One of the notable new departures came 
about in this way. When the question of ap- 
pointing a new preceptor for the dormitory was 
raised one of the students remarked that it 
seemed anomalous that those whose lives were 
to be devoted to teaching and helping others 
should need someone to be paid to keep them in 
order. Professor Magan was struck with the 
suggestion, and declared it should be tried. A 
committee of three was at once appointed, who 
selected one of their number to preside over the 
dormitory, to keep order and enforce disci- 
pline. The success was manifest from the first, 
and on the return of Professor Sutherland the 
fullest extension of the principle was decided 
upon. The whole school was turned into a 
miniature Congress, a Committee of the Whole, 
in which all were put on a footing of voting 
equality, the sole condition being that the presi- 
dent should in all cases take the chair. Sub- 
committees were appointed to take charge of 
the various departments and to be responsible 
for their smooth working. By-laws were sug- 
gested and discussed in full committee. 



848 BETTERMENT 

Amendments were made when needed ; and the 
sub-committee carried them into effect. The 
plan has worked to admiration. Whenever any 
student has to be discipHned (a rare occurrence) 
he feels that he helped to make the rule, which 
he will take his turn in administering; conse- 
quently he submits with a good grace. This 
takes a burden of disagreeable responsibility 
from the teachers, and gives the students an 
admirable training in managing the depart- 
mental work. An early question discussed was 
the right relation of the sexes, the rules which 
should govern the conduct of male and female 
students towards one another. This thorny 
question was settled in a way which commanded 
the ready assent and obedience of all. Law and 
order have in all cases been respected and main- 
tained to the satisfaction of all, while the cost 
and friction of a paid overseer were saved. 

In the feeding department the young women 
take turns in cooking and doing all the work of 
the kitchen, buying all the provisions from the 
store of the institution, paying themselves a 
moderate wage, and seeing that their books 
balance. In this way they are taught the whole 
management of a house. They have also an in- 
sight into the composition of foods, as the stu- 
dents soon complain if they do not get the 



BETTERMENT 349 

proper proportions of the different elements for 
right nutrition. 

A fairly complete manual training is given, 
and the practical work is paid for, thus enabling 
the poorer students to pay their way. 

Practical altruistic work begins early. It 
often happens that a farmer dies and leaves his 
widow with her family to manage the farm as 
best they can. In such a case the students ask 
for a day off, and they spend it in ploughing the 
widow's land or doing other hard work, so that 
she and her children can do the rest. Students 
are encouraged to go out and establish similar 
schools in distant villages, teaching the same 
rational principles of healthy physical and men- 
tal training. The aim is always to begin 
modestly and allow healthy growth. 



OF THE K 

UNIVERSITY 

OF 




-VaU 



.„■! L BE ASSESSED FOIlf 7,u" THE PENALTY 

TH^S foOK ON THE ^^Jf^ °^^n THE FOURTH 
n mCREASE TO SO CENTS^O ^^^^^^ ^^, 

DAY AND TO 9^-^ 

OVERDUE. === 



DEC 10 1G45lS£BJLiJ33i — 




jiiLlsJ9aa_-i 




jmn^^ — 




■.■•.<iw>-:vr^'7yLg?^\l 



LD2l-l00w-7,'40( 



^B 19060 



lbwii 



m.Btwt\.w 




/5'2V?7 



/iO 

a? 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



