
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



1 


^ iJn 




■ 








1 




SchlesiDger Library 
Radclifie College 


^^1 




1 




comribitted by the 
Raddiffc Culinarv Friends 


m 




1 


4 


ji 


M^^H 




p 




m 


^H 




1- 






BM 


"E 


1 

i 
1 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



Table Talk's 
Illustrated Cook Book 



BY 



Table Talk Publishing Co^ 



PUBLISHERS OF 



TABLE TALK MAGAZINE 

The American Authority Upon Culinary Topics 
and Fashions of the Table 



PHILADELPHIA 
PENNSYLVANIA 






Copyrighted, 1906, 

BY 

JOSEPH L. HARBISON 

A II rights reserved 
Pi'BLisHED August, 1906 



M 



PREFACE 

OST careful Housewives, 'tis to you 

We dedicate this book, 
For well you know the art to please 

Lies In the art to cook. 
• Man wants but little here below 

Nor wants that little long ; " 
But yet that little he Insists 

Must be cooked right, not wrong. 
For whether In the great Pie- Belt, 

Or in the Baked- Bean Zone, 
In Doughnut- Land, or where they make 

The Hoe-Cake and Com- Pone. 
The well-cooked dish is highly prized. 

And those who win the race 
Are those upon whose kitchen-shelves 

This Cook Book finds a place. 
No pilot safely steers a ship 

Without a chart to guide, 
And here. Good Housewives, is your chart ; 

It will take you far and wide 
On varied paths, but always where 

The course is tried and true. 
And better still, the goal you seek 

Is pictured here for you, 
No longer will you grope your way 

With wearied head and nerve. 

Within these pages you can learn 

To make, to cook, to serve. 
« « « * * 

To find a language for the world 
Has made the linguists balk ; 

We've solved the problem, for we suit 
All tongues with Table Talk, 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



Mark Hanna's last dinner party to the late President McKinley Frontispiece 



Dining Rooms Pages 15, 16, 17, 18 

Table Decorations Pages 19, 20, 21 



Punch Bowl with Service . Pages 22, 

23, 24, 25 
Bouillon Services Pages 27, 29 



FISH. 



Pace. 

Baked Trout 33 

Planked Shad 34 

Broiled Fish 35 

Smelts 36 

Baked Fish 36 

Broiled Mackerel Z7 



Page. 

Lobster Demonstration 38 

Lobster Farci 39 

Deviled Crabs 40 

Clam Fritters 41 

Oyster Kromeskies 42 

Fried Oysters 43 



ENTREES 



Page. 

Vol-au-Vent 44 

Meat Souffle 45 

Creamed Codfish 46 

Creamed Chicken 46 

Macaroni Timbale 47 



Page. 



Ham and Potato Timbales 



Vegetable Cutlets 48 

Demonstration, Forming Croquettes. 49 

Salmon Croquettes 50 

Stuffed Eggs on Caviare Toast 50 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 51 



49 



MEATS. 



Page. 

Planked Steak 53 

Roast Leg of Mutton 54 

Fore Quarter, Lamb Roast 55 

Lamb Cutlets, Mint Jelly 55 

Crown of Lamb 56 

Beef Loaf or Cannelon 56 

Ham Cooked in Cider 57 

Liver and Bacon 58 



Page. 

Head Cheese 59 

Sausages 59 

Stuffing and Trussing a Turkey. . 61, 62 

Roasted Turkey 63 

Turkey Loaf 64 

Squabs on Toast 64 

Glazed Chicken 65 

Roast Duck , 66 



VEGETABLES. 



Page. 



Asparagus Server 67 

Cauliflower in Edam Shell 68 

Baker Butter Squash 69 

Jerusalem Artichokes 70 

Brussels Sprouts 71 



Page. 



Potato Nest, Demonstration 72 

Potatoes in Fancy Shapes 72 

Potato Oval with Mashed Turnips . . 73 

Tomatoes in Cups and Cocottes 74 

Broiled Corn 75 



SALADS. 

Page. 



American Salad 76 

Cauliflower Salad 'jy 

Cranberry and Cheese Salad 78 

Potato Salad 79 

Baked Bean Salad 79 

St. Germaine Salad 80 

Cream Cheese Salad 80 

Lamb's Tongue Salad 81 

Luncheon Dish 82 



Page. 

Water Lily Salad 82 

Marigold Salad 83 

Yankee Salad 84 

Italian Salad 84 

Lobster Salad 85 

Tomato Jelly Salad 87 

Summer Salad 88 

Shamrock Salad 88 

For the Salad Course 89 



DESSERTS. 



Page. 

Cold Peach Pudding 90 

Blanc Mange 91 

Orange and Cocoanut Pudding 92 

Plum Pudding Croquettes 93 

Burning Plum Pudding 94 

Individual Christmas Puddings 95 

Indian Meal Pudding 96 

Strawberry Sponge 97 

Individual Berry Short Cakes 98 

Red Raspberry Short Cake 98 

Grape Bavarian Cream 99 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 100 

Chestnut Bavarian Cream 100 



Puff Paste, Demonstration iii 

FROZEN DESSERTS. 



Page. 

Demonstration, Molds loi 

Pear Dessert 102 

Rice Patties 102 

Custards with Citron Wish Bones. . . 103 

Violet Charlotte Russe 104 

Charlotte Russe 105 

Strawberry Charlotte Russe ro6 

Raspberry Pudding 107 

Japanese Ice Cream 108 

Strawberry Croustades 108 

Banana Jelly 109 

Mince Pie with Apple Whip no 

Pumpkin pie with Whipped Cream. 113 



Page. 

Frozen Coffee 1 14 

Wintergreen Sherbet 115 

Fancy Ice Cream Molds 1 16 

Muskmelon Circles 116 

Ice Cream in Melons 117 



Page. 

Independence Loaf 118 

Lemon Ice 119 

Bisque Loaf 120 

Bride Cups 120 

Frozen Peaches and Cream 122 



CAKES. 



Page. 

Cake with June Roses 122 

Home-made Wedding Cake 123 

Marguerite Wedding Cake 124 

Strawberry Cake 125 

Violet Cake 126 

Violet Cakes 127 

Cherry Cake 128 

A Wish Bone Cake 128 

Musical Bars 129 

Cake for Midwinter Feast 130 

American Christmas Cake 131 

Cake Decorated with Hearts 132 



Page. 

Valentine Cake 133 

A Washington Birthday Cake 134 

Washington Birthday Cakes 135 

Orange Layer Cake 136 

Fourth of July Cake 137 

Cake for Silver Wedding 138 

Automobilites 139 

Ships at Sea 140 

Rabbit Cakes 141 

Cake Rosettes *. 142 

Demonstration, Molds 143 

Demonstration, Meringues 144 



CONTENTS 



PUNCHES. 



Choca Page 26 



Page. 

Cocktail, Grape Fruit 23 

Punch, Berry 26 

Fruit 22 

Fruit 2/} 

Hot 26 



Page. 

Punch, Mint 25 

Pineapple 25 

Russian 26 

Tea 23 

Spanish Cup 24 



SOUPS. 



Bisque, Lobster Page 30 



Page. 

Bouillon 27 

Consomme Royale 32 

Soup, Almond Cream 31 

Black Bean 30 

Cream •©£ Tomato 28 

Cream of Spinach 28 



Page. 

Soup, Delmonico 29 

Giblet 31 

Mongole 32 

Normandy 29 

Princess 32 

Swiss Rice 31 



FISH. 



Page. 

Clams, Sauted 41 

Crabs a la Creole 40 

Deviled 40 

Cutlets, Fish 45 

Farci, Lobster 39 

Fish, Baked 37 

Balls, Fresh 34 

Broiled 35 

Fritters, Clam 41 



Pace. 

Kromeskies, Oyster 42 

Lobster, To open a Broiled 38- 

Mackerel, Broiled 37 

Oyster Toddle 43- 

Oysters a la Creole 42 

Fried 42 

Shad, Broiled 34 

Planked 34 

Trout, Baked 33 



CO'STE^TS— Continued 



ENTREES. 

Brains or Sweetbreads Page 



Page, 

Chicken Salpicon 52 

Croquettes, Making 50 

Nut and Potato 5; 

Sweet Potato 51 

Cutlets, Vegetable 48 

Eggs, Stuffed 51 

Pate de foie gras. Mock 44 



Pace. 

Patties, Potato 46 

Rissoles, Chicken 52 

Souffle, Cheese 52 

in Cases, Meat 45 

Sweetbreads in Vol-au-Vent 44 

Timbale Cases, Swedish 52 

Timbales, Macaroni 47 



MEATS. 



Pack. 

Cannelon 57 

Cnicken, Glazed 65 

Cutlets, Lamb 55 

Duck, Roast 66 

Salmi of 66 

Ham Cooked in Cider 57 

Head Cheese 58 

Lamb, Crown of 56 

Roast 55 



Page. 

Liver and Bacon 58 

Loaf, Beef 57 

Turkey 65 

Mutton, Roast 54 

Sausages 59 

Squabs on Toast 65 

Steak, Planked. 53 

Turkey, Preparation of 60 

Roasted 63 



VEGETABLES. 



Artichokes, Fried Jerusalem. . .Page 70 



Page. 

Artichokes, Jerusalem 70 

Jerusalem Italienne 70 

Asparagus 67 

Balls, Carrot 68 

Brussels Sprouts, a la Maitre d' Hotel 71 

Sprouts, Plain 71 

Cauliflower in Edam Shell 68 

Corn, Baked 75 

Broiled 75 



. Page. 

Corn in Tomato Cups 75 

Custard, Tomato 74 

Onion, Saratoga 69 

Potato Nests 72 

Potatoes in Fancy Shapes 72 

Molded with Turnips 73 

Squash 69 

Baked Butter 69 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 74 



CONTENTS— C^«//;i«^^ 



SALADS. 



American Salad Page 76 



Page. 

Cauliflower Salad 'j'j 

Cheese and Celery Salad 78 

Corn Beef Salad yy 

Canberry and Cheese Salad 78 

Cream Cheese Salad 81 

Dressing, French 86 

Frozen Tomato Salad yy 

Italian Salad 85 

Lamb's Tongue Salad 81 

Lettuce Salad 78 

Lily Salad 83 

Lobster Salad 85 



Page. 

Luncheon Dish 83 

Marigold Salad 83 

Mayonnaise 86 

Potato Salad 79 

Salad Course, For the 89 

Sauce, Bearnaise 87 

Shamrock Salad 89 

St. Germaine Salad 80 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 81 

Summer Salad 89 

Tomato Jelly Salad 87 

Yankee Salad 85 



DESSERTS. 



Blanc Mange Page 91 



Page. 

Charlotte Russe 105 

Russe, 'Strawberry 106 

Russe, Violet 104 

Cream, Chestnut Bavarian 100 

Grape Bavarian 99 

Strawberry Bavarian loi 

Macaroon 104 

Tsarina 106 

Croquettes, Plum Pudding 93 

Croustades, Strawberry 108 

Custards 103 

Ice Cream, Japanese 108 

Jelly, Banana 109 

Rhubarb 109 

Tea 109 

Junket with Puree of Bananas 97 

Mincemeat no 



Page. 

Pate Cases 112 

Patties, Rice 103 

Pear Dessert 103 

Pie, Pumpkin 113 

Pudding, Baked Indian 96 

Castilian Chocolate 107 

Cold Peach 90 

Orange and Cocoanut 92 

Plum 94 

Raspberry 107 

Rice and Tapioca 96 

Puddings, Individual Christmas 95 

Puff Paste Ill 

Rhubarb Fool 93 

Short Cake, Red Raspberry 99 

Cakes, Individual Berry 99 

Sponge, Strawberry 97 



CONTENTS— C^«//*««^^/ 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Bisque Loaf Page 121 



Page. 

Bride Cups 120 

Coffee, Frozen 114 

Ice, Orange and Grape 118 

Serving Lemon 119 

Cream in Melons 117 

Cream, Plum Pudding 119 

Cream with Crushed Fruit 117 



Page. 

L.es, Fruit 118 

Loaf, Bisque 121 

Independence 118 

Muskmelon Circles 116 

Peaches and Cream, Frozen 121 

Sherbet, Italian 115 

Wintergreen 115 



CAKES. 



American Christmas Cake Page 131 



Page. 

Automobilites 129 

Boiled Sponge Cake 131 

Bride's Cake 123 

Cake Decorated with Hearts 132 

for Midwinter Feast 130 

Forms 133 

for Silver Wedding 138 

Rosettes 142 

Valentine 132 

with June Roses 142 

Cakes, Chocolate Tea 127 

for Children's Party 127 

Rabbit 141 

Violet 127 

Washington's Birthday 135 

Cherry Cake 129 

Christmas Cake, American 131 

Cream Sponge Cake 126 

Demonstration, Meringues 144 

Dover Cake 141 

Fourth of July Cake 137 

Icing, Gelatine 126 



Page. 

Icing, Transparent 135 

Loaf Nut Cake 133 

Musical Bars 129 

Orange Flip Cake 142 

Layer Cake 136 

Pastry Bags and Tubes 144 

Rabbit Cakes 141 

Ships at Sea ". 14a 

Sponge Cake, Boiled 131 

Cake, Cream 126 

Strawberry Cake 125 

Sunshine Cake 137 

Tartlets, Nut 134 

Tea Cakes, Chocolate 137 

Valentine Cake 132 

Violet Cake 126 

Cakes 127 

Washington's Birthday Cake 134 

Wedding, Cake for Silver 138 

Cake, Home-made 123 

Cake, Marguerite 124 

Wish Bone Cake 129 



DINING-ROOMS 



15 



^^^^h^^^^^^ni|^^^^ ill 


IJMV / 




U 


^^1 ■V .^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 


' ^^^Hl 


^ 




•1 * '9 



QUAINT DINING-RCX)M AT FERNCROFT IXX. 



i6 



TABLE TALK ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




A DINING-ROOM EXTENDING PRACnCALLY THE WIDTH OF THE HOUSE. FINISHED IN WAINSCOT OF 
QUARTERED OAK WITH CEMENT DADO. THE FLOOR IS OF RED BRICK. 



DINING-ROOMS 



17 




DIKINO-ROOM FINISHED AFTER THE OLD ENGLISH STYLE IN BLACK WALNUT. OVER THE WAINSCOTING 
IS HUNG GILT JAPANESE PAPER. WHILE THE BEAMED CEILING HAS INTRODUCED BETWEEN, GILT BURLAP. 
ON ONE SIDE OF THE ROOM OVER THE MANTEL IS A FINE SPECIMEN OF A TIFFANY MIRROR, WHILE THE 
HANGINGS ARE OF SOFT CRIMSON FLUfB. 



i8 



TADLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




A DINING-ROOM FINISHED IN WHITE, SHOWING RED AND WHITE PAPER. THE FURNITURE IS llAHOGANY, 
THE SIDEBOARD BEING TUB CENTRAL FEATURE IN AN ARCHED RECESS HAVING FOR THE UPPER PORTION A 
STAINED-GLASS WINDOW. 



TABLE DECORATIONS 



19 




TABLE LAID FOR A BRIDESMAID'S LUNCHEON. 

COVER OP LACE AND LINEN. SILVER CANDELABRA AND PINK WAX CANDLES SURROUNDED WITH WREATH 
OP VALLEY LILIES TIED WITH POUR PINK STREAMERS. RADIATING PROM THIS, EIGHT WHITE AND GOLD CHINA 
SLIPPERS, FILLED WITH PINK SWEET PKAS, FORM DAINTY SOUVENIRS. BETWEEN EVERY TWO SLIPPERS ARE 
PLACED SILVER CANDLESTICKS FILLED WITH PINK CANDLES. THE SERVICE IS PINK. GREEN AND WHITE 
CHINA AND CUT-GLASS. 



20 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




o 

a* 

u 

o 

S 

D 



C 



< 



TABLE DECORATIONS 



21 




LUNCHEON TABLE ARRANGED FOR GIRL GRADUATES. 




CHRISTMAS TABLE WITH CARNATIONS AND POINSETTIA. 

THB CENTERPIECB IS A SLENDER-STEMliED BOWL. FILLED WITH A LARGE CLUSTER OP SCARLET CARNA- 
TIONS, WHICH IS OUTLINED WITH FERN. A LARGE CIRCLE OF POINSBTTIAS WITH SINGLB STRANDS OF 
SMILAX ARB PISPOSBD UPON THE CLOTH. THB SCARLBT CANDLES ARE UNSHADED. 



22 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




^ o .^ sH 3c*-, 



5 ^ 

sis ^co 

b O ■" aJ^-" '^ * 



cr o *>H 






1^ _c 



ili^^-sl 






S "* o 5 x^ <i^ o 2 

c> rt n .s >v c« -- /^ 

o ^" «^ 



.tt Hq 






§l:^a 



a. c; § 



« 3 IJ 



C S t 



t/5 'S c S <^ 



5 5 <4H 



o'^t o ^ g o o 






PUNCH BOWLS WITH SERVICE 



23 




PUNCH BLOCK FOR WEDDING OR FORMAL ENTERTAINMENT. 
TEA PUNCH. 

Over one tablespoonful of good Ceylon, or any preferred brand of tea, 
pour three pints of boiling water, cover and steep for six minutes, then strain. 
Take the strained juice of three lemons and three oranges, finely shred a pine- 
apple. Make a plain syrup with one pint each of granulated sugar and water, 
boil for five minutes and set aside. Mix the fruit, fruit juice and tea and add 
as much of the syrup as may be necessary to make pleasantly sweet. Keep 
cool, and when needed pour it into a punch bowl containing a large piece of 
ice. Add a quart of Apollinaris water and one cupful of sliced strawberries 
or other fruit of contrasting color. 



GRAPE FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Into a glass nearly filled with shaved ice put four tablespoonfuls of fruit 
juice, one tablespoonful of sugar syrup, two tablespoonfuls of brandy and one 
tablespoonful of maraschino. Stir well for a moment, then strain off into a 
cocktail glass, adding a small piece of solid grape fruit pulp. 



24 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




AN AUTUMN PUNCH BOWL. 

CUT A BUCKET WITH TWO HANDLES FROM A ROUND PUMPKIN; SCRAPE OUT CLEAN AND LINE WITH 
SHAVED ICE, ON WHICH PLACE THE DISH HOLDING THE PUNCH, LEMONADE, CRAPE JUICE OR CIDER. 
DECORATE WITH ARTIFICIAL CHERRIES OR DRIED GRAINS AND WREATH WITH BUNCHES OF GRAPES. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Peel and grate a small pineapple, discarding the tough core. Measure 
and to each cupful add one cupful of boiling water and simmer for ten minutes. 
Add one-half of a cupful of freshly made hot tea and a syrup made by boiling 
together for ten minutes one pint of water and one pint of granulated sugar. 
Set aside until cold, then strain and add the strained juice of three oranges and 
three lemons, one cupful of grape juice and five pints of water. This gives a 
pale violet colored punch. 

SPANISH CUP. 

Boil together for ten niinutes one quart of water and three cupfuls of 
granulated sugar, then set aside to chill. Add the strained juice of six lemons, 
two oranges and one pint of claret. Just before serving add a bottle of plain 
soda and serve with chopped ice in the glasses or place a large piece of ice in 
the punch bowl. 



PUNCH BOWLS WITH SERVICE 



25 



PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

Peel, eye and chop fine a ripe pineapple. Pour over it one pint of boiling 
water and let stand until cold, then strain, pressing to extract as much liquid as 
possible. Add one cupful of raspberry or cherry juice, the juice of two lemons 




PUNCH BOWL WITH CUP SERVICE. 



and a syrup made by boiling one pint of sugar with three cupfuls of water. 
Before serving, add a bottle of Apollinaris. 



MINT PUNCH. 

Chop fine a dozen large stalks of mint. Pound, add a half cupful of powdered 
sugar and the juice of two lemons and let stand for an hour, stirring occasional- 
ly. Strain, pressing hard. Add the strained juice of four more lemons, a 
syrup made by boiling and chilling a half cupful of sugar and a pint of water, the 



26 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

sliced yellow rind of two lemons and six freshly cut sprigs of mint. Stir well, 
add a quart of shaved ice and two bottles of ginger ale and serve. 

HOT PUNCH. 

Dissolve a pound of granulated sugar in three pints of hot water, boil for 
three minutes. Strain, add the juice of four oranges and one lemon, a table- 
spoonful each of the finely cut yellow rind of an orange and lemon and boil 
for one minute longer. Take from the fire, add one cupful of freshly made 
green tea and one cupful of rum. Strain and serve at once. 

RUSSIAN PUNCH. 

Put one pint of California claret, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of whole cloves and one cupful of boiling water in a granite 
saucepan. Cover, heat quickly and simmer for five minutes. Strain and serve 
at once in tall glasses. 

BERRY PUNCH. 

Dissolve a half pound of granulated sugar in one cupful of water, boil for 
a moment and set aside. When cold add one pint of the strained juice of 
freshly crushed berries (strawberries, raspberries or blackberries), the strained 
juice of a lemon, a pint and a half of ice water, one pint of shayed ice, one table- 
spoonful of maraschino and a half cupful of berries. 

CHOCA. 

This is a mixture of chocolate and coffee which is often served for lunch- 
eons or afternoon receptions. To prepare it mix together one cupful of grated 
chocolate and one cupful of sugar. Add two tablespoonfuls of boiling water 
and stir at the side of the fire until the chocolate and sugar have entirely dis- 
solved. Gradually blend with this one cupful of boiling water and three cupfuls 
scalding hot milk. Turn into a double boiler, cover and cook for ten minutes, 
then add one pint of clear strong drip coffee. Cook for five minutes longer, or 
it may now, if necessary, be kept at the side of the fire until needed. At the 
proper time take off, and add and blend a little of it with the well beaten yolks 
of two eggs, stir in one-half of a teaspoonful of vanilla and serve at once, 
dropping a teaspoonful of whipped cream into each cup. This quantity will 
serve from twelve to eighteen cupfuls, according to the size of the cup. 



SOUPS 



27 




BOUILLON SERVICE. 

NOTHING COULD BE MORE DAINTY THAN THIS LITTLE TRAY WITH ITS SERVICE OF CHINA AND DISHES 

OF OLIVES AND FANCY BISCUIT. 

BOUILLON. 

Take three pounds of beef from the under part of the round ; this piece is 
usually selected because it is lean and free from bone, the latter never being used 
for soup which is to be clarified. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, trim off 
the fat and run the lean through a meat chopper. Transfer it to an agate or 
porcelain-lined soup kettle, cover it with three quarts of cold water and let 
it stand on the table for an hour, stirring occasionally. Put on the fire and 
heat slowly to the simmering point, skimming frequently. Simmer, closely 
covered, for four hours. Add one medium-sized onion cut fine, one half of 
a cupful of diced carrot, two stalks of celery, one sprig of parsley, one bay 
leaf, one scant teaspoonful of pepper-corns and two cloves and simmer for one 
hour longer. Strain into an earthen bowl and set away in a cool place until 



28 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

next day. Remove the fat which has risen to the surface, add one teaspoonful 
of salt, a dash of cayenne, two strips of lemon peel, one-quarter of a teaspoonful 
of celery seed, the crushed shell and the white of one egg whipped to a soft 
froth. Put over the fire and stir constantly until it boils then boil without stir- 
ring for ten minutes. Remove from the fire and let rest for ten minutes then 
vStrain through doubled cheesecloth, wrung out of cold water. Do not squeeze 
the cloth. If properly done the soup will be crystal clear and of a faint amber 
color. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP. 

Pick over and wash very thoroughly two quarts of spinach; change the 
water four or five times to make sure that all sand is removed. Have ready a 
large kettle partly filled with boiling salted water; boil for fifteen minutes, 
drain and drop into cold water (this heightens the color) ; drain again, pressing 
as dry as possible ; then chop and pound to a pulp. Have ready one quart of 
thin white sauce made with two scant tablespoonfuls of butter, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and one quart of milk. Add a little of this, a spoonful at a 
time, to the pulp, stirring and rubbing that it may be smoothly blended. Put 
on the fire and stir almost constantly until the soup reaches the boiling point ; 
add salt and pepper to taste, and strain. Return to the fire until scalding hot, 
then serve with tiny croutons or add a half cupful of whipped cream. 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Cook together one-half of a can of tomatoes, one clove, one slice of onion, 
one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pejjpercorns and one 
sprig of parsley for twenty minutes, then rub through a sieve and return to the 
fire. Taste to see that it is highly seasoned. Make one pint of white sauce by 
melting and mixing in a saucepan one tablespoonful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and cook without coloring for three minutes. Stir in gradu- 
ally one pint of hot milk. When blended and cooked to a smooth sauce draw 
to one side and simmer for five minutes. Take both saucepans from the fire, 
add to the tomatoes one salt spoonful of baking soda and stir until it effer- 
vesces. After two minutes add the tomatoes to the sauce and serve immedi- 
ately. 

A great variety of cream vegetable soups may be made by following the 
above rules and substituting some vegetable which has been cooked tender and 
reduced to a thin pulp as described in these recipes. Celery, salsify, carrots, 
parsnips, potatoes, canned peas, etc, all make most satisfactory cream soups. 



SOUPS 



29 




LUNCHEON SERVICE. 

NOVELTIES IN BOUILLON CUPS HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED IN OVAL SHAPES; WHEN FILLED WITH CREAM 
SOUP TOPPED WITH WHIPPED CREAM THEY ARE VERY DAINTY ACCESSORIES TO THE LUNCHEON TABLE. 
INDIVIDUAL CASSEROLES OF ALUMINUM ARE ANOTHER ATTRACTIVE TABLE NOVELTY WHICH CAN BE USED TO 
SERVE CREAMED MEATS. FOWL OR FISH FOR DINNER OR LUNCHEON AND ALSO FOR SHIRRED EGGS AND 
S^CALLOPBD FOODS. 

DELMONICO S6UP. 

Take a soup bone weighing two pounds, wipe thoroughly, cut off the meat 
and crack the bones ; cover with two quarts of cold soft water and put on the 
back part of the stove, where it will slowly heat ; simmer three hours, take from 
the fire, strain and stand away to cool. The next day, when cold, remove the 
grease from the surface; put over the fire with one potato sliced, one pint of 
tomatoes, one small onion, one stalk of celery, one bay leaf, ten cloves, one 
teaspoonful of salt and a very little red pepper. Let the stock cook until the 
vegetables are tender, then press through a sieve. When ready to serve add 
one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 



NORMANDY SOUP. 

Take three pounds of the knuckle of veal, cut the meat off and crack the 
bones. Put the bones and meat in the kettle, cover with three quarts of cold 
water and simmer gently for one hour. Add one pint of white button onions 
and simmer for another hour, add six ounces of bread cut in slices and simmer 



30 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

another hour. Take the bones from the kettle and press the stock, onions and 
bread through the sieve. Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour until smooth. Return the soup to the kettle, add the 
butter and flour to it and stir until it thickens. Scald one pint of cream, add 
to the soup, season to taste with salt and pepper and serve. 

LOBSTER BISQUE. 

Boil one large or two small lobsters, open when cool and take out the meat. 
Cut the tender pieces into small cubes and pound the rest to a paste. Pound 
the claws and tail shell very fine, add the coral and one tablespoonful of butter 
and pound again until smooth. Put with the pounded meat in a small saucepan, 
add a bay leaf, sprig of parsley, stalk of celery, one slice of onion, one-quarter 
of a teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt and one and one-half cupfuls 
of chicken stock, cover and simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour. In 
another saucepan put one heaping cupful of stale bread crumbs and one cupful 
and a hajf of stock and simmer for half an hour. Strain the contents of the 
first saucepan through a cloth, squeezing well ; add this to the second saucepan, 
simmer for five minutes then rub through a fine sieve. Return the broth to the 
fire, add more salt and pepper if necessary and one tablespoonful of butter and 
one tablespoonful of flour rubbed together to a paste. Stir until the mixture 
thickens slightly, add one pint of scalded cream or rich milk and the cubes of 
lobster. I-et stand at the side of the fire for three minutes and serve. If a 
maigre soup is desired use milk ih the place of stock and cook in a double 
boiler. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Pick over, wash and soak over night one pint of black beans. In the 
morning drain them, add two quarts of fresh cold water and a bouquet of sweet 
herbs and place at the side of the fire to simmer very gently until they break 
in pieces. When half done add one good-sized onion roasted in a slow oven 
until well browned through, one-half of a medium sized carrot cut fine and 
browned in a little fat, one scant teaspoonful of salt, one clove and a dozen 
peppercorns. When very tender rub through a fine sieve and return to the 
fire. If the pulp is very thick add sufficient boiling water or good brown stock 
to reduce to a creamy consistence. Taste and add seasoning as necessary. 
Cook together until browned one tablespoonful each of butter and flour, dilute 
smoothly with some of the soup then turn into the kettle and stir until well 
mixed. Simmer ten minutes longer. Place in the hot soup tureen some thin 
slices of lemon, quarters of hard-boiled tgg and (if used) four tablespoonfuls 
of sherry, fill with the soup and send to the table. 



SOUPS 31 

ALMOND CREAM SOUP. 

Clean and disjoint a fowl, put in the soup kettle with five pints of water, 
cover and simmer very gently for three hours. Strain off the stock, set aside to 
chill. Remove all fat and bones and put the white meat through the food 
chopper, using the finest cutter. Blanch one cupful of almonds and pass them 
through the same cutter. 

Remove all fat from the stock and put it on in a clean saucepan with two 
cupfuls of fine stale crumbs (no crust), one-third of a cupful of chopped celery, 
one tablespoonful each of chopped carrot and onion, one-half of a bay leaf, two 
cloves, a bit of cinnamon, one sprig of parsley, one scant teaspoonful of salt, 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper. Simmer for one hour, then rub 
through a sieve. Return to the fire with the prepared chicken and almonds and 
three cupfuls of cream. Add seasoning to taste. When almost at the boiling point 
add one tablespoonful of butter rubbed to a paste with one tablespoonful of 
flour. Stir gently until dissolved, then boil slowly for five minutes. Rub 
through a fine sieve, reheat and serve. This is a very delicious soup and well 
repays the time spent in making it. 

SWISS RICE SOUP. 

Wash thoroughly one-half of a cupful of rice, put in a kettle with two 
quarts of boiling water, add one tablespoonful of chopped onion, a tiny bit of 
mace, sprig of parsley and a scant teaspoonful of salt, and boil slowly until the 
rice is pulpy. Rub through a sieve and reheat to the boiling point. Add one 
tablespoonful of flour blended with a little cold milk; stir until thickened. Add 
pepper to taste, more salt, if needed, and simmer for five minutes. Beat two 
eggs, add one-half of a cupful of good cream. Draw the kettle to the side of 
the fire and pour this in slowly, stirring well; sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls 
of grated Swiss cheese and take immediately from the fire. As served, drop 
a pinch of chopped parsley over each plateful. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

For this recipe take the giblets after they are thoroughly cleaned and cut 
them into half-inch pieces. Put them into a kettle with three pints of cold 
water, heat slowly and simmer very gently for an hour. Add one small white 
onion stuck with two cloves, one stalk of celery, one-quarter of a bay leaf, a 
sprig of parsley and one of thyme, one scant teaspoonful of salt and one-quarter 
of a teaspoonful of pepper and simmer for one hour and a half longer. Remove 
the seasonings. In a clean saucepan brown together one-half of a teaspoonful 



32 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

of butter and one tablespoonful of flour. Add one pint of good stock, stir 
until smooth then add this to the soup. Add more seasoning if necessary, 
together with one teaspoonful of lemon juice and take from the fire. 

PRINCESS SOUP. 

Cook together three pints of strong veal stock and one -half of a cupfu! 
of fine barley until the latter is very soft, then press through a sieve. In the 
meantime cut the meat from a small roast chicken and put through a food 
chopper, using the finest cutter. Put it through a second time that the meat 
may be very finely cut, then pound to a paste, gradually adding some of the 
barley broth. Disjoint and break up the carcass, cover it with two quarts of 
thin veal broth (or water), add one sHced onion and a bouquet of herbs and 
simmer for an hour and a half, thea strain. Add three pints of this with the 
pounded nreat to the barley broth, reheat and cook for ten minutes. Taste to 
see that it is sufficiently seasoned, then draw to one side and let stand for five 
minutes. Beat together the yolks of three eggs and one cupful of cream. 
Pour slowly into the soup, stirring hard, then take at once from the fire and 
serve. 

CONSOMME ROYALE. 

Beat together slightly the yolks of six eggs and two whole eggs, add a 
dash of nutmeg, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful 
of white pepper or a dash of cayenne. Add one-half of a pint of cream and 
strain into six well buttered dariole molds. Set these into a baking pan, pour 
in hot water half-way up the sides of the molds and bake in a very moderate 
oven until the centres are firm, like ordinary baked custards. If baked too 
fast, the mixture will be full of bubbles. Turn them out carefully when cool, 
cut in slices and stamp out in fancy shapes. Drop these into the soup tureen 
or plates, add one quart of hot consomme and serve at once. 

SOUP MONGOLE. 

Cut into thin slices then into straws one medium-sized carrot, one white 
turnip and one leek ; put them into a saucepan with one-half of a tablespoonful 
of butter, cover and cook slowly for five minutes. Into a second saucepan put 
one-half of a can of tomatoes, one-half of a can of peas drained and mashed, 
one teaspoonful of butter, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter of a 
teaspoonful of white pepper and one pint of veal stock and simmer gently for 
half an hour then press through a sieve. Add the cooked vegetable straws, more 
seasoning if needed, and one teaspoonful of cornstarch rubbed to a thin paste 
with cold water. Stir and simmer for five minutes and it is ready to serve. 



FISH 



33 



BAKED TROUT WITH SHRIMP SAUCE. 



Qean, wash and dry a large salmon trout. Gash each side in half a 
dozen places, lay in each gash a lardoon of fat salt pork, then brush the fish 
inside and out with a tablespoonful of melted butter mixed with one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. Put a rack or grating in the baking pan, on it lay the fish, 
pour a cupful of boiling water in the bottom and place in a very hot oven. 




BAKED TROUT. 



Allow twelve minutes to the pound and baste three or four times with melted 
butter. Have ready in a saucepan one tablespoonful of butter cooked with 
one tablespoonful of flour. When the fish is removed from the oven, strain 
the water remaining in the pan into the saucepan, stir until thickened, add 
salt, pepper and sufficient caramel to make a pale, brown sauce, one table- 
spoonful of strained lemon juice and one-half of a cupful of finely chopped 
shrimps. If the sauce is too thick reduce slightly with boiling water and boil 
for one minute. Garnish the fish with parsley and lemon. 



34 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

PLANKED SHAD. 

Planking is thought to be the best method of cooking a shad, but to be 
properly done an open fire is needed, although the oven is often used. The 




PLANKED SHAD. 

fish is nailed skin side down to a two-inch thick, well-seasoned oak plank, 
propped in front of the glowing coals and basted from time to time with 
seasoned butter until the flesh draws away from the back bone. 

BROILED SHAD. 

For broiling the bars of the broiler are greased, the cooking over a clear 
fire is slow and the fish is basted with melted butter when the flesh side is 
turned uppermost. With this fish the best green vegetables are asparagus or 
peas and sliced cucumber as a salad. 

FRESH FISH BALLS. 

From the remains of a fish remove skin and bones, break with a fork into 
fine flakes, season well and set aside over night, mixing with it next morning 
an equal amount of mashed and seasoned potatoes; making it into cakes or 
balls. This is an agreeable variation of the usual fish ball made with salted 
fish. Another and somewhat original variation is to substitute boiled rice for 
the potatoes, binding together with beaten egg. 



FISH 



35 



BROILED FISH, LATTICED POTATOES. 

Any good-sized firm-fleshed fish may be selected for broiling. It should 
be split from head to tail and carefully cleaned, if desired the back bone may be 
removed. Each half should be brushed with melted butter, laid in a wire 
broiler and cooked, flesh side first, over a clear fire. A five or six pound fish 




BROILED FISH, LATTICED POTATOES. 

will require twenty-five minutes. The latticed potatoes served with the fish are 
cut with a waved vegetable slicer. After slicing drop the potatoes into cold water 
for a little while, dry on a towel and fry golden brown in deep smoking-hot 
fat. They should be drained for a moment on unglazed paper and well salted 
before serving on a hot dish. 

FISH CUTLETS. 

Fish cutlets can be made from any firm-fleshed fish such as cod or halibut 
or, where color is desired, salmon. The fish is steamed then flaked, well seasoned 
with salt, pepper, lemon juice and chopped parsley and carefully added to a 
thick sauce ; the proportions of the latter are two tablespoonfuls each of flour 
and butter to one-half of a pint of milk and one cupful of the sauce is sufficient 
for twice as much fish. When cold this mixture is shaped, egged, crumbed 
and fried in deep fat. Where any quantity of shad is left from a previous 
dinner it may be used, care being taken to remove every bone. 



36 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




SMELTS. 

niZD IH DKIP FAT AND riLED ON A FOLDKO NAPKIN : GARNISH OF PARSLEY AND CUT LEMONS 




iBsm 



^i^^rf^ 



BAKED FISH. 



Bass or any firm-fleshed fish of moderate size may be used for baking. 
After cleaning a stuffing may be inserted ; this usually consists of crackers or 
bread crumbs moistened with one tablespoonful of melted butter to each cupful 



FISH 



37 



of crumbs; a tablespoonful of chopped onion and chopped parsley, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper may be added at pleasure. Strips of salt pork laid into the 
gashes on each side of the fish serve to baste it, and a fish of from four to five 
pounds will take from forty-five minutes to an hour according to its thickness. 

BROILED MACKEREL WITH BROWNED POTATOES. 

Fresh mackerel are delightful when nicely broiled. In purchasing, select 
large sized ones and see that the eyes look full, as this denotes freshness. 




BROILED MACKEREL WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

Have them split, and after a quick washing dry on a cloth and arrange in a 
greased broiler.^ Dust with salt and pepper and place flesh side downward over 
a clear, but not too hot, fire. Cook for from ten to eighteen minutes, according 
to thickness, then turn ; while the skin side is browning spread the upper side 
with a little plain or maitre d'hotel butter, then serve on a hot platter, garnish- 
ing with mashed potato, which has been dropped in heaps on a pan and quickly 
browned in a hot oven. 

TO USE COLD FISH. 

When any fish is left from a meal remove and discard skin and bones, 
break the flesh in flakes and set aside. It may then be mixed with a thick egg 
or cream sauce, heaped in individual shells or bakers, sprinkled with buttered 
crumbs and browned in a quick oven ; this makes a good lunch dish. 



38 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




l.Ol^STKR DICMONSTRATION — cutting open the now memurwe of tub tail. 




LOBSTER DEMONSTRATION — breaking body apart, claws broken from body aud laid one side- 

TO OPEN A BOILED LOBSTER. 

A lobster, if alive and in good condition when dropped into the kettle, will 
have the tail curved round under the body ; if gently pulled out it will spring 
back to its former position. The first thing to do in opening the lobster is to 
twist off the tail. With a scissors or a sharp knife split open the thin under- 



LOBSTER 



39 



part of the shell and draw the meat out in one long piece. Pull off the thin 
strip running down the upper side, and underneath will be seen a vein — the 
intestinal canal — sometimes dark in color, but often quite white. Carefully 
remove this. Break the claws from the body, crack them and remove the 
meat. From the main shell draw out the body ; pull off all the woolly gills and 
the eyes; immediately back of the latter lies the stomach or "lady, which 
must also be removed. Pick out the meat from between the thin scales or ribs, 
add it to the claw and tail meat. If the lobster is a female there will be in 
the body a quantity of eggs or "coral." This, with the green fat, should be 
added to the meat. The body and tail shells may be carefully washed, dried 
and put aside to use for garnishing or to serve as a dish in preparing a farci; 
the small claws may also be. put aside, but cannot be kept for any length of 
time. 




LOBSTER FARCI. 

l^or lobster farci, cook a tablespoonful of chopped onions in one table- 
spoonful of butter for three minutes, add one tablespoonful of flour, a dash of 
salt, pepper and mace, and one-half a cupful of thin cream, and stir until 
thickened. Add one heaping tablespoonful of soft bread crumbs and one 
heaping cupful of diced lobster meat and cook for a moment, then add a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the beaten 
yolk of an egg and turn into the cleaned lobster shell. Cover with fine crumbs 
and brown in a quick oven. 



40 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

DEVILED CR.\BS. 

In a saucepan put one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one-third of a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne. Stir over the fire 
until melted and mixed, then gradually add three-quarters of a cupful of veal 
or chicken stock. Stir until thick and smooth, then add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sherry, three fresh mushrooms chopped and 
one cupful of the canned crab meat. Stir for three minutes, then take from 
the fire, add one heaping teaspoonful of chopped parsley, more salt and pepper 




. DEVILED CRABS. 

to season very highly and, if liked, a suspicion of made mustard. When cold 
fill the shells with the mixture, smoothing them off, rounding full. Sprinkle 
with fine, dry bread crumbs, slightly moistened with a little melted butter and 
bake in a very hot oven until browned ; or dip into slightly-beaten egg, roll in 
fine crumbs and fry golden brown in deep, smoking-hot fat. 

CRABS A LA CREOLE. 

Peel and chop fine one small onion; open one green pepper, remove the 
seeds and mince ; fry with the onion in one tablespoonful of butter, cooking very 
slowly for five minutes ; then add three small tomatoes which have been skinned 
and chopped after removing the seeds ; cook for a moment ; add one-half of a 
cupful of chicken broth and four soft shell crabs which have been cleaned and 
cut in two. Season to taste with celery salt and simmer ten minutes longer. 



CLAMS 



41 



CLAM FRITTERS. 

Both hard and soft clams may be used for fritters with equally good results. 
In either case they should be rinsed in cold water to remove bits of shell, then 
be chopped fine. For twenty-five beat two eggs, add one cupful of milk, one 
pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, the chopped clams and 




CLAM FRITTERS. 

one teaspoonful of baking powder. This batter is thoroughly beaten together, 
dropped by small spoonfuls into deep, smoking-hot fat and cooked until well 
browned, then drained on unglazed paper. Where the clam liquor is not 
needed for other purposes it may be substituted for the milk and thus intensify 
the flavor. 

CLAMS SAUTED AND CREAMED. 

Chop fine two strings of soft shell clams after washing them. Melt one 
large tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, add the clams and stir frequently 
until they are nicely browned. Keep well broken with a spoon. When 
browned dredge over them one heaping tablespoonful of butter and stir again 
until it is absorbed and browned then add gradually one cupful of milk, stirring 
until it is smooth and thick. Season well with salt and pepper, simmer for 
five minutes and serve on toast or crisped crackers. 



42 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



OYSTER KROMESKIES. 

Scald twenty-five large oysters in their own liquor. Put the oysters 
through the food chopper, mix with them one-half of a cupful of the strained 
liquor and heat to the scalding point. Add one-half of a cupful of scalded 
cream, three mushrooms chopped fine, one cupful of finely chopped, cooked 
chicken (white meat) or veal, and one tablespoonful of butter. Rub to a 
smooth paste with two tablespoonful s of flour. Stir gently but continuously 




OYSTER KROMESKIES. 

until the mixture is thick, then add ten drops of onion juice, salt and pepper to 
taste, the beaten yolks of two eggs and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Stir for a moment, then turn out on a buttered platter and set away until 
cold and firm. Cut some fat bacon into slices of paper-like thinness. Mold 
small spoonfuls of the cold mixture into cylinders less than one inch thick 
and twice as long. Roll each in a slice of the bacon, fasten with a wooden 
toothpick, dip into fritter batter and fry in smoking-hot fat. Garnish this 
dish with parsley. 

OYSTERS A LA CREOLE. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add one slice onion and cook until pale 
brown. Add one teaspoonful of flour; stir until brown, then add one cupful of 
stewed tomatoes. When thickened, add one pint of drained oysters and cook 
until the edges have curled. Add one drop of Tabasco pepper sauce, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and serve on 
toast. 



OYSTERS 



43 



FRIED OYSTERS 

To be of the same crispness as those served at first-class restaurants 
oysters should be carefully washed, drained and dried and should not be 
crumbed until just before frying. Dip each into slightly beaten egg and roll 




FRIED OYSTERS. 

in fine dried bread crumbs— cracker crumbs will soften and grease soak more 
readily. Have ready a deep kettle half filled with smoking-hot fat. Into this 
plunge a few of the prepared oysters at a time and after each frying be sure 
that the fat is smoking-hot again before putting in the next lot. Drain for a 
moment on unglazed paper and serve at once on a hot dish. 

OYSTER TODDLE. 

This is a seashore dish and is really a kind of chowder. Dice one-quarter 
of a pound of fat salt pork and cook slowly until well tried out. Add one 
pint of sliced raw potatoes, cover and cook in the fat until tender. Pour in 
one pint of hot milk and cook for five minutes ; thicken with one tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed into half as much butter. Add one pint and a half of washed 
oysters, salt and pepper to taste and take from the fire as soon as the oysters 
ruffle. Serve with broken hard tack or crackers. 



44 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




VOL-AU-VENT. 
SWEETBREADS IN VOL-AU-VENT. 

When making puff paste for pies prepare an extra quantity. Carefully 
roll out a portion in a sheet and fit it over the exterior of an upturned ov^l 
mold. From a second sheet cut out a piece the proper size to cover the top 
of this mold when reversed, making several slashes in the center. From the 
trimmings make a rose and several leaves or any fancy shapes desired. Lay 
th^se with the cover on a flat pan. Stand the mold on another pan. Chill all 
thoroughly, then bake in a quick oven. When done, reverse and carefully 
withdraw the mold from the pastry shell. Fill with sweetbreads diced and 
mixed with a thick cream sauce. 

MOCK PATE DE FOIE GRAS. 

Take a large calf's liver, wipe it with a damp cloth, and lard the top well 
with larding pork. Put it in a saucepan, add one onion, chopped, one-half of 
a bay leaf, one blade of mace, one dozen peppercorns, four cloves. Pour 



ENTREES 



45 



over sufficient stock to cover and simmer for three and a half hours. Cut the 
liver in thin slices, arrange in a deep dish and strain the liquor over all, put in 
a cool place over night. Next day drain the liver and pound to a paste, adding 
from time to time a little melted butter (in melting pour off the clear butter 
and do not use the curd), in all about one cupful of butter will be needed. 
Add one teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper and a dash 
of cayenne. The paste should be soft and smooth. Pack it into small tumblers 




MEAT SOUFFLE IN CASES. 



or pots, cover the top with a half-inch layer of melted butter or lard and set 
away in a cool place. It will keep two or three weeks. 



MEAT SOUFFLE. 

From the remains of a chicken there can be evolved a souffle. Strip all 
meat from the carcass, chop fine and measure it. For two cupfuls allow 
one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, three eggs, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and one-half of a cupful of soft, stale bread 
crumbs. Make a sauce with the milk, butter, flour and seasonings, add the 
bread crumbs, stir and cook for five minutes. Take from the fire, add the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, the chicken and parsley. Whip the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff, dry froth, mix lightly with the prepared chicken and turn into buttered 
cases, baking them for from fifteen to twenty minutes in a slow oven. 



46 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 






CREAMED CODFISH IN POTATO SHELLS. 

Fur a company LUNCHLuN llltSE ARE DAINTY. PREPARE THE FISU ; THEN SCOOP OUT BAKED POTATOES. 
MASH AND season; REFILL THE SHELLS ALTERNATELY WITH POTATO AND CREAMED FI:JH; SPRINKLE PARSLEY 
OVER TOP AND SERVE HOT. 




CREAMED CHICKEN IN POTATO PATTIES. 
POTATO PATTIES. 



Into each pint of hot mashed potatoes stir one well beaten egg ; pack three 
inches deep in a buttered dish and set aside until cold. Turn out carefully, 
stamp with a scalloped four-inch patty cutter, and with a second one of smaller 
size, mark the centre as in making pastry patties. Stand well apart on flat 



ENTREES 



47 



buttered pans, brush over with beaten egg yolk, and brown in a moderate oven. 
Just before the meal scoop out the centre of each patty, and fill with creamed 
chicken or fish, garnishing with parsley. 



MACARONI TIMBAIJ^S. 



Macaroni timbales are a little troublesome, but are good enough to make 
it worth while to prepare them occasionally. Cook a dozen sticks of pipe 




MACARONI TIMBALE. 



macaroni in boiling salted water, drain and lay them in cold water until ready 
to use, then dry on a towel and cut into rings. Thickly grease a pint bowl with 
soft butter, line it with a layer of the macaroni so arranged as to show the holes. 
Chop fine one cupful and a half of cold meat, mix it with a sauce made with one 
tablespoonful of butter, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, two-thirds of a cup- 
ful of milk or stock and a high seasoning of salt, pepper and onion juice. Add 
two well beaten eggs, stir all together and fill the bowl, taking care not to 
disturb the macaroni. Steam for an hour and serve with a tomato sauce. 



48 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




VEGETABLE CUTLETS. 

Cut into dice sufficient white turnip and Irish potato to measure one cupful 
each and steam or boil until tender. Drain a can of peas, wash and let stand in 
cold water for half an hour, then drain very dry. Make a thick white sauce 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter, three large tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup- 
ful and a half of milk ; when smoothly thickened season highly with salt, white 
pepper and one teaspoonful of onion juice. Carefully mix in the turnips, 
potatoes and one-half of the "peas. Thickly butter a shallow pan, spread on it 
one-half of the reserved peas, pour over them the mixture ; on top spread the 
remainder of the peas, pressing them in lightly with the back of a spoon. Set 
aside until cold and firm. Turn out on a crumbed board, cut in wedges or 
trefoils, dip each in slightly beaten tgg and roll in fine dry crumbs. Fry golden 
brown in deep fat, and decorate each cutlet with a green frill. 

BRAINS OR SWEETBREADS, SPANISH STYLE. 

Skin and wash the brains or sweetbreads and boil twenty minutes in 
salted water. Have ready four boiled potatoes cut in dice. Put in a spider 
one ounce of butter and when it is hot add a small onion chopped fine, a tea- 
spoonful of minced red pepper and garlic, and four tomatoes sliced thin. 
Season with salt and pepper and stir until well done. Then add the potatoes 
and the brains sliced thin. Stir and simmer a moment and serve very hot. 



ENTREES 



49 




HAM AND TOMATO TIMBALES. 

TO ONE PINT or COOKED TOMATO PULP ADD THE YOLKS OF FOUR EGGS, ONE TEASPOONFUL SALT, ONE- 
FOURTH TEASPOONFUL PEPPER, ONE PINT MINCED HAM, ONE-FOURTH MNT INSIDE CRUMBS OF DAY-OLD 
bread; whites of the eggs beaten STIFFLY AND FOLDED IN LAST; TURN IN BUTTERED MOLD; STAND 
IN PAN OF HOT WATER WHICH COMES NEARLY UP TO THE EDGE; BAKE IN HOT WATER UNTIL FIRM IN THE 
CENTER. INVERT ON HOT DISH A>") GARNISH WITH WATER-CRESS; SERVE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 




DEMONSTRATION— FORMii^G croquettes. 



so 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



MAKING CROQUETTES, 

Once the knack of preparing and cooking croquettes is learned, it will be 
found an easy task, besides showing the possibility of preparing a good dish 
from odds and ends. The proportions are two cupfuls of chopped meat or 
vegetables to one cupful of thick sauce. For the sauce, melt together one 
heaping tablespoonful of butter and two heaping 'tablespoonfuls of flour, add 
gradually one cupful of hot milk and stir until the sauce is thick and smooth, 
adding seasonings according to the meat used. This sauce is appropriate for 
chicken, veal or any white meat, a brown sauce made with stock being substi- 
tuted for dark meats. Into this, the chopped meat and additional seasonings 
are stirred and the mixture set aside until cold. This method ensures a creamy 
croquette, very different from the dry or hard one so frequently encountered. 
With hands very slightly dusted with flour, spoonfuls of the cold mixture are 
shaped into cylinders, cones, balls or cutlets, dipped into slightly beaten ^g'g 
and rolled in fine crumbs. Every portion of the croquette should be wet with 
the ^g% that it may not be fat-soaked, and as the preparation is already cooked, 
it takes but a moment to brown the exterior when the fat is, as it should be, 
smoking-hot and deep enough to entirely submerge the croquette. Carrots, 
turnips, spinach and many other vegetables as well as beans, lentils and other 
legumes may be made into croquettes. 




SALMON CROQUETTES SERVED IN PARSLEY NEST. STUFFED EGG ON CAVIARE TOAST. 



ENTREES 



51 



STUFFED EGG ON CAVIARE TOAST. 

Hard boil any number of eggs ; open them carefully and replace the yolk 
with a mixture of potted or deviled meat and soft crumbs appropriately and 
highly seasoned ; fit the halves together and arrange the stuffed egg on a large 
egg shaped piece of toast spread with caviare. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil the potatoes until tender, then skin and mash or put through a potato 
press. For each pint add one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, salt and pepper to taste, and one tablespoonful of chopped pars- 




SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

ley. Mix thoroughly together, form into croquettes and dip into beaten 
egg, then roll in fine bread crumbs. Fry in deep smokine: hot fat, drain for a 
moment on soft paper and pile on a serving dish, garnishing with parsley. 

NUT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Coarsely shop sufficient black walnut meats to measure one cupful. Mix 
them with one cupful of mashed and seasoned potatoes and one cupful of soft 
bread crumbs. Stir in two well beaten eggs. Add a high seasoning of salt, 



52 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

pepper and onion juice, a few drops of lemon juice and three tablespoonfuls 
of beef stock. When cold mold into croc|uettes, dip each into beaten egg, roll 
in fine crumbs, and fry in deep smoking-hot fat. 

SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES FILLED WITH CHICKEN SALPICON. 

Mix together one cupful of flour and one-half of a teaspoonful of salt. 
Separate the whites and yolks of two eggs ; beat the yolks and add gradually 
one-half of a ciipful of cold water. Stir this into the dry mixture, add one 
tablespoonful of olive oil or melted butter and beat hard. Add the whites 
whipped to a stiflF froth, mix lightly together and set aside in a cold place for 
at least two hours — over night is better. Have the fat smoking hot. Place the 
iron in it until heated. Lift it from the fat, carefully lower it into the batter 
almost to the top, take out and plunge into the fat. As soon as golden brown 
take out, tap the handle and the cooked case will drop from the iron. 

Cut fine the breast meat of a roast chicken, put into a saucepan with one 
tablespoonful of butter, four finely chopped mushrooms, one chopped truffle, 
one tablespoonful of chopped cold smoked tongue and one dozen tiny que- 
nelles made with veal forcemeat. To one cupful of very rich brown sauce add 
one-half of a cupful of madeira and simmer until reduced one-third. Add this 
to the chicken preparation, simmer for ten minutes and serve in the timbale 
cases. 

CHICKEN RISSOLES. 

Cook together in a saucepan one tablespoonful of butter^ and tv/o table- 
spoonfuls of flour, add one-half of a cupful of milk and stir to make a thick, 
smooth paste. Season with salt, pepper, a few drops of onion juice, add one 
tablespoonful of cream and one cupful of finely chopped, cooked chicken ; cook 
for a moment longer and set aside until cold. Roll out scraps of pUflE paste in 
a very thin sheet and cut in pieces three by four inches. Mold the chicken 
mixture in rolls as thick as the little finger and three inches long. Enclose 
each in a piece of the paste, wetting the edges and ends and pressing them to- 
gether so that they will not become fat-soaked in the cooking. Dip each into 
slightly beaten egg and roll in fine crumbs. Have a deep saucepan partly 
filled with smoking hot fat. Immerse two or three at a time in the fat, and 
draw the saucepan back a little so that the rissoles will cook golden brown in 
four minutes. Reheat the fat each time that more are cooked. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Mix together over the fire one tablespoonful of butter, one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne. 



MEATS 



53 



Add one-half of a cupful of scalded milk stirring until smooth and thick. Add 
one-quarter of a cupful of grated cheese, stir and take from the fire. Add the 
well beaten yolks of three eggs, cover and set aside until cool. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff dry froth, cut and fold carefully into the mixture, 
turn into a buttered baking dish and bake for about twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 




PLANKED STEAK WITH VEGETABLES SERVED AS GARNISH. 



PLANKED STEAK. 

Use a well-seasoned hardwood plank, oval in shape and from one and a 
half to two inches thick. Prepare about three pints of hot mashed potato 
well seasoned and slightly softened with melted butter and hot milk. Put this 
in a pastry tube with a large rose end and press it round the edge of the plank, 
heaping it up in rosettes and making an encircling wall. Lightly dabble the 
top with beaten egg yolk and place in a hot oven to color a little. In the 
meantime broil a fine thick steak and have ready one or more varieties of hot 



54 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



cooked vegetables — peas, white turnips, carrots, etc., diced or cut in fancy 
shapes — and a g^ood brown or mushroom sauce. Transfer the plank from 
oven to a serving platter or tray, lay the steak carefully in the center, garnish 
with little heaps of the various vegetables and over it pour a few spoonfuls of 
the sauce : then send at once to the table. 




ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

LAID ON A PLATTER ON A BED OP BOILED RED KIDNEY BEANS AND GARNISHED WITH PARSLEY. 



ROAST MUTTON, BRETON STYLE. 

The Breton way of serving roast mutton is to push a clove of garlic into 
the knuckle end of the leg and to serve with it a garnish of red beans. The 
beans are soaked and slowly boiled until tender then drained and turned into 
the pan with the meat an hour before the latter is done. Or, after draining, 
the beans are lightly fried in a little dripping and chopped onion and heaped 
round the meat as it is ready for serving. 



MEATS 



55 




FORE QUARTER LAMB ROAST — ^turnip croquettes and bunch of mint as garnish. 




LAMB CUTLETS AND MINT JELLY. 



CUTLETS, CRUMBED, EGGED AND FRIED. THEN GARNISHED WITH MINT FOLIAGE, IS A DELICIOUS WAT TO SBBVI 
COLD ROASTED LAM9: MINT JKLLIVS AM SERVED IN PLACE OF MINT SAUCE. 



56 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




CROWN OF LAMB. 

TWO RACKS OP LAMB, PROM SEVEN TO ELEVEN RIBS IN EACH ARX REQUIRED; COVER EXPOSED RIBS WITH 
THICK STRIPS OP PORK PAT, WHEN BAKING. SERVE WITH A BUNCH OP PARSLEY IN CENTER AND LATTICED 
POTATOES (steamed) AROUND THE BASE. 




BEEF LOAF OR CANNELON GARNISHED WITH MASHED POTATO ROSES. 

RECIPE OPPOSITE PAGE. 



MEATS 



57 



IIAM COOKED IN CIDER. 

Scrub and soak a jSfood-sized sugar-cured ham. Put on in cold water, 
using a small kettle, and heat slowly to the boiling point. Drain and cover 
with cider, or cider and water, in equat quantities, and boil slowly until almost 
tender enough. Lift from the kettle, loosen the skin and with scissors cut it 
off about half way, trimming into long Vandykes or points. Round the edges 
stick whole cloves and cover the exposed fat with fine bread crumbs mixed 
with brown sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. For 
serving, garnish with pirti olas, and enclose the small end bone in a paper frill. 





R^K4s 


^ 




Z~^^^^^ 


■ 






^^^ 


i^^^^H 


^^^^^^H ''■ ,^^1 






HAM COOKED IN CIDER. 
BEEF LOAF OR CANNELON. 

To make a beef loaf or cannelon, as it is often called, free two pounds of 
lean beef from fat and put through the chopper, adding a square inch of 
kidney suet. Work into this a beaten ^^'g, one-half of a cupful of fine stale 
bread crumbs, a scant tablespoonful of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, two teaspoonfuls of salt and one-half of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Have ready a greased flat pan, shape the mixture into a long loaf — 
it may be packed into a tin, then carefully turned out — and place on the pan. 
Lay over the top several thin slices of fat salt pork and bake in a very hot oven 
for from thirty to forty minutes. 



58 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




LIVER AND BACON. 

SAUT& THE LIVER IN A LITTLE BACON FAT WHICH IS ON HAND, ANO WHEN DONE MAKE A LITTLE GRAVY 
FROM IT WITH FLOUR AND HOT WATER. HEAT A CLEAN PAN, DROP IN SLICES OF BACON OF WAFER-LIKE THICK- 
NESS. IF THE PAN IS VERY HOT THEY WILL CURL UP INTO ROLLS AND BY TURNING WITH A FORK WILL BB 
BROWN IN A FEW MINUTES. ARRANGE ROUND THE LIVER AND ADD A GARNISH UP PARSLEY. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Head cheese is an old-fashioned dish made with beef and pork or beef 
and veal ; if pork, a lean piece is chosen and two or more pigs* feet are added ; 
if veal is preferred a good-sized knuckle is selected. To either is added about 
four pounds of beef — the under round or any lean piece — boiling water suffi- 
cient to cover is poured over and the meat is covered and simmered for a 
number of hours until it falls to pieces ; when half done a little salt should be 
added. When the cooking is finished the meat is set aside until cool enough 
to handle. It is then freed from skin, fat and bone, the beef chopped, the white 
meat cut into small pieces. A high seasoning of salt and pepper should be 
mixed in and the meat is well moistened with the reduced pot liquor. It is 
then packed into a mold, a weight placed on top and all set aside until next 
day. It is served in thin slices and garnished with cress or parsley. 



MEATS 



59 




HEAD CHEESE— RECIPE preceding pack. 




SAUSAGES. TOMATO SAUCE AND MASHED POTATOES GARNISHED WITH PARSLEY. 



6o TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

INSTRUCITONS FOR THE PREPARATION AND COOKING 

OF A TURKEY. 

The initial step is in selectioru Choose a hen turkey of about twelve 
pounds in weight. The skin should be tender and indicative of dry picking 
instead of scalding to remove the feathers; the legs soft and smooth; pin- 
feathers plentiful and hairs short, fine and few ; the end of the breast-bone soft 
enough to bend easily. These points show that the bird is young. All poultry 
should be killed by sticking and bleeding at the throat, and following this, the 
fowls should at once be drawn. This is not a law in many States, hence the 
practice of feeding prior to killing in order to increase weight, although at the 
expense of flavor. 

now TO DRAW IT. 

When selected have the butcher remove the leg sinews, as it will make 
these rather tough members more tender. As butchers usually gash the 
breast-skin it may be better to have the fowl drawn at home. The first thing 
to be done is to remove as many of the pin-feathers as possible. After this 
pour one or two tablespoonfuls of alcohol into a saucer or pan, light it and 
hold the bird in the flame, turning constantly that all hairs may be removed. 
Lighted paper may be used but it blackens the skin, hence preference is given 
to the smokeless flame of alcohol. Cut off the feet below the joint; after 
cooking, the broken ends are easily removed, leaving the joint more sightly 
in appearance than when burned. Cut off the head close to the bill ; slit the 
skin on the neck on a line with the backbone, draw it back to the shoulders, 
detach and remove windpipe and crop, then cut off the neck close to the 
shoulders and lay it aside. The skin can now be folded over the back, leaving 
the breast unmarred. To remove the intestines make a small slit just below the 
end of the breastbone; insert the fingers and loosen all the organs from the 
back and sides of the body, then, firmly grasping the largest organ — ^the giz- 
zard — draw firmly outward ; if properly done the mass will be removed intact. 
Cut round the vent without piercing the large intestine and all is freed from 
the body. The lungs may still remain ; if so, remove them from the depressions 
between the ribs, then wipe out the empty cavity with a cloth wrung out of 
cold water. Remove the liver, heart and gizzard from the intestines ; split the 
heart and carefully cut away the gall bladder from the liver; cut the fleshy 
ends from the gizzard, trim off the tough iridescent skin, rejecting the central 



MEATS 



6i 



food pouch ; put these aside with the neck to be cooked, chopped and added to 
the gravy. 



STUFFING AND TRUSSINC. 



If the turkey is to be stuffed, fill the cavity with the desired mixture and 
lay a few spoonfuls between the skin and meat on the breast. While it is 
possible to truss by winding twine around legs, back and breast, the result 
will not be at all satisfactory to the carver. A trussing needle resembles a 




ILLUSTRATING HOW THE TENDONS ARE REMOVED FROM THE LEGS. 



coarse darning needle about twelve inches in length. Have ready several 
twelve-inch pieces of fine, but stout, twine. Pull the skin flap taut over the 
neck and back, then twist the wings so that the tips meet on the back over the 
flap, holding it in position. Push the threaded needle in a direct line through 
wings and body, entering and coming out abo7C the bone of the second joint ; 



62 



TABLE TALK^S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



make a return stitch parallel to, but under the bone, pull both ends of twine 
tight and tie firmly ; leave three or four inches by which to pull out after cook- 
ing. Push the legs up against the body and, threading the needle afresh, take 
two more stitches in the same manner as the first two, running over and under 




THE SKIN DRAWN OVER THE NECK AND HELD UNDER THE PINIONS. 

tiie thigh bone, then tie as before. For the third pair of stitches run through 
the ends of the legs and back through the rump. If properly taken and 
tightly tied, the fowl is now firmly trussed and the breast in proper position for 
serving. 

THE COOKING. 

A ten-pound turkey will require fully three hours in a hot oven, and it is 
well to have at hand several sheets of thick brown paper to guard against burn- 
ing. Having the oven very hot, place the bird, breast downward, on a small 
rack in a good-sized dripping-pan, cover the back with a number of wafer-like 



MEATS 



63 



slices of salt pork and put in the oven after dredging lightly with salt. Melt 
a quarter of a cupful of butter (or rendered turkey fat) in three-quarters 
of a cupful of boiling water and baste every fifteen minutes. At the end of the 
first hour turn the fowl breast upward. Cover with more of the sliced pork 
and continue the cooking as before, lowering the oven heat a very little. If 
there is danger of burning, cover partly or wholly with the paper. When done 
the joints will separate easily. Before taking from the pan use a sharp, pointed 
knife to cut the twine on the side opposite the knot and pull it out by the loose 
ends. Then transfer to a hot platter. 




ROASTED TURKEY, CHESTNUT CROQUETTES AND BOILED CHESTNUTS. 



64 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




TURKEY LOAF WITH DRESSING MOLDED IN BALLS AND GARNISHED WITH OLIVKS. 

KECirE OPPOSITE PACE. 



Hi 


n 


s^iH 


■Ns^^R 


H 


^^^VfV)h 




M^ 


B'\ ^F 


^1 


■ ^ ' -ll 


M 






m^ V 


K 


-J 




W^ 


^ 



SQUABS ON TOAST— RKciPB opposite pack. 



MEATS 



65 



TURKEY LOAF. 

Chop the remains of a turkey, season well with salt and pepper ; add one 
cupful of soft bread crumbs to the quart, and sufficient beaten egg to make it 
hold together. Mold this into a loaf or pack in a greased mold; cover the 
top with thin slices of salt pork, and bake or steam until firm. 

SQUABS ON TOAST. 

Draw the squabs the same way as fowl, but do not remove the feet. Put 
a small lump of butter rolled in- salt and pepper in each one, then truss. Ar- 
range in a pan on slices of salt pork, and on the breast of each lay another thin 
slice. Place in a very hot oven and roast for from twenty to twenty-five min- 
utes and serve on toast or shces of fried hominy. 



-• /,i 


r>T/r^ 


\ A ^^k 




?»*•»%• \ ^ 




jfjmi 


F'^M 


^f^ 






^^^Hf^^^H 


hsR^ /^"^ 








^i3k 1 V ^ ■» ■ 


_. -y^ ' l3aBjS|K_ 


JBSJml * . ^t 


^/^ X^?" 






\i 




>^ j^ltJM^ 


^By 


"« 


i^ *flg* 






* 


^^^^^^^H^H 


V- •-.• 1 


^HH^H^^^^ 






i» 



GLAZED CHICKEN. 

CHICKEN BONED. STUFFED AND ROASTED, THEN CHILL AND BRUSH OVHSR WITH GLAZE. PLACE ON 
SERVING PLATE AND GARNISH WITH PIECES OF HARD-BOILED EGGS AND BLANCHBO CELERY. 



66 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



ROAST DUCK. 

The roast duck which is illustrated is not stuffed, a small onion and a 
stalk of celery being placed in the cavity to give a slight flavor. It is trussed 




ROAST DUCK. 

in the same way as directed for turkey, and roasted in a very hot oven until 
the joints could be easily separated. Blood oranges are used for garnish, the 
sections being separated and heaped in the rind which is carefully removed in 
halves. 

SALMI OF DUCK. 

What meat has been left on roasted ducks cut off in good-sized pieces ; 
the bones are broken and simmered so as to give nearly a quart of stock. 
Season the remaining gravy with mushroom catsup and a few drops of Wor- 
cestershire ; if less than a cupful add boiling water to make up the deficiency. 
In this heat the meat and a dozen or more olives, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and take from the fire. Pile the meat in the center of a small platter, 
pour over it the gravy and garnish with triangles of toasted bread and tufts of 
parsley. The stock, with the addition of sago and seasoning, gives a dinner 
soup. 



VEGETABLES 



67 




ASPARAGUS SERVER. 

THE ILLUSTRATION SHOWS AM ASPARAGUS DISH OF DRESDEN CHINA, THE SAUCEBOAT HIGH IN THE 
CENTER AND SPACES FOR THE ASPARAGUS TO BE GROUPED ON EITHER SIDE OF THE BASE.' NOT A SCRAP OF 
THE LUSCIOUS VEGETABLE NEED BE WASTED. 



ASPARAGUS. 

Fresh asparagus should have the stalks well scraped, then, after washing, 
it is tied in small bundles and cooked in boiling salted water. When very 
fresh and young the bundles should stand upright in the water ; the steam in 
the closely covered kettle will be sufficient to cook the tender tips. Appro- 
priate sauces to serve would be drawn butter, maitre d'hotel butter, a white 
sauce made with equal parts of milk and the water in which the asparagus 
is cooked — when the vegetable appears as an entree — a hollandaise sauce. 
If any of the tender stalks are left over, the sauce should be rinsed off with 
boiling water and the asparagus may be served cold as a salad with a plain 
French dressing; heat the tips carefully in a thick cream sauce and serve in 
•Swedish timbale cases as an entree or luncheon dish. The tough ends of the 
stalks should be put aside to be converted into a cream soup. 



68 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

CAULIFLOWER IN EDAM SHELL. 

The cauliflower should have the usual preliminary preparation and be 
boiled in salted water until tender, then set aside until cold. Make a cupful 
and a half of cream sauce, and to this add the cauliflower broken into flower- 




CAULIFLOWER IN EDAM SHELL. 

ets, putting aside half a dozen of the best pieces. Season well with pepper, but 
add little salt as the cheese will supply the lack. Fill the shell, place on a pan 
in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve, garnishing the top with the re- 
served flowerets and wrapping a folded napkin round the base. 

CARROT BALLS. 

Scrape and boil several large carrots in salted water until tender. Rub 
through a sieve or potato press, and measure. For each cupful put into a 
saucepan over the fire one-half of a tablespoonful of butter, mix with it one 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, add one-half of a cupful of milk and stir until 
smooth and thick. Add the prepared carrot, season to taste with salt, pepper, 
a few drops of onion juice and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; cook for two 
minutes longer and set aAvay until cold and firm. Form into small balls, dip 
each into slightly beaten egg, roll in sifted bread crumbs and fry until golden 
brown in smoking-hot fat. 



VEGETABLES 



69 




BAKED BUTTER SQUASH. 

WIPE THESE SMALL SQUASH; REMOVE THE INNER PULP; SEASON WITH SALT, BUTTER AND PEPPER; FILL 
centers; cover with bread crumbs mixed with .BEATEN EGG YOLK, AND BROWN; SERVE ONE TO EACH 
PERSON. 

SQUASH. 

Squash is one of the vegetables which must be tastily though simply pre- 
pared or it will be passed by many. It should be cut, pared and the seeds re- 
moved, boiled in well salted water until tender when pierced by a fork. 
Every drop of water should be carefully pressed out, the squash mashed, well 
seasoned and mellowed with salt, pepper and butter and stirred again until 
piping hot, then sent quickly to the table. Where the mistress has a kitchen 
garden to draw from, one hill of squash might be reserved for plucking 
when the size of eggs, boiling whole and serving in a cream sauce. The 
result is delightful, and if kept closely picked one hill will yield an abundance 
for a family of moderate size. 

SARATOGA ONIONS. 

Peel and thinly slice three large white onions and soak in milk for ten 
minutes, then drain and dry on a towel. Separate the slices into rings, put a 
dozen or more at a time in a frying-basket and plunge into smoking-hot fat. 
Take out as soon as delicately colored, drain for a moment on unglazed 
paper, turn into a heated dish, dust lightly with salt and serve at once. 



yo 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

SCRUB THE VEGETABLES IN COLD WATER AND THEN COOK THE SAME AS POTATOES; REMOVE THE SKIN 
AFTER COOKING AND SERVE WITH A SAUCE. 

FRIED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Wash and scrape the artichokes, throwing at once into cold water that 
they may not become discolored. Slice and boil in salted water for twenty 
minutes, then drain and dry on a cloth. Slice a small white onion and fry 
slowly in a tablespoonful of butter heated in a frying pan until pale brown. 
Add the artichokes and toss often until they begin to color. Dust with salt 
and pepper, turn into a serving dish and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES ITALIENNE. 

Scrape and soak a quart of the artichokes. Melt three tablespoon fuls of 
butter in a saucepan and in it lay the artichokes. Pour over one cupful and a 
half of strong beef broth; cover closely and simmer gently for from twenty- 
five to thirty minutes until tender. Turn into a heated and covered dish. 
Boil the broth down rapidlv until reduced one-third, pour over the artichokes 
and send at once to the table. 



VEGETABLES 



71 




BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH TOAST POINTS. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS USUALLY ARE SENT TO MARKET IN QUART BASKETS. THEY LOOK LIKE ICINIATURB 
CABBAGES, BUT ARE MORE DELICATE IN FLAVOR. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS PLAIN. 

Pick over and wash a quart of sprouts, then let stand for half an hour 
in cold salted water, to draw out any insects which may have found lodgment 
in the leaves. Drain and drop into a kettle of rapidly boiling salted water. 
Do not cover, and keep at a rapid boil until tender enough to pierce with a 
fork, which will take from twelve to fifteen minutes. Drain, pressing gently 
to get rid of all the water possible. Put over the fire in a clean saucepan, 
add one tablespoonful of butter and a dash of salt and pepper, and shake 
over the fire until the butter is melted. 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Wash, soak, boil and drain the sprouts as directed in the preceding 
recipe. When taking from the fire, put on a saucepan containing three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, the strained juice of one large or two small lemons, two 
tablespoon fu Is of finely-chopped parsley, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper. As quickly as this melts stir 
well, add the sprouts, and shake quickly over the fire until smoking hot, then 
dish and serve. 



72 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




POTATO NEST DEMONSTRATION. 

KECIPE OPPOSITE PACE. 




POTATOES IN FANCY SHAPES. 

The illustration shows utensils for cutting raw potatoes into fancy shapes 
for decorative purposes. 



VEGETABLES 



7^ 



POTATO NESTS. 

For these it is necessary to have special frying baskets with long handles, 
ihe baskets being round at the bottom and one fitting loosely within the other. 
Pare a number of old potatoes and cut into strips or straws as for julienne 
potatoes. Let soak in cold, slightly salted water for half an hour, then drain 
and dry on a towel. Line the larger basket with a portion of them and fit 
over them the smaller basket. Have ready a kettle containing smoking-hot 
fat. Plunge in the prepared baskets and cook the potatoes golden brown. 
Lift out and carefully disengage the baskets from the nest. Drain for a mo- 
ment on unglazed paper. Fill with freshly fried potato balls or strips and 
sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. 




POTATO OVAL WITH MASHED TURNIP IN CENTER, 



POTATOES MOLDED WITH TURNIPS. 

The illustration shows a somewhat unusual but very effective way of 
serving the potatoes and turnips, which should accompany goose and pork. 
Press the mashed and seasoned potatoes in a buttered border mold and place 
in a hot oven until lightly browned. Turn out on a heated platter and heap 
the center with the turnips, either mashed and diced or mixed with a thick 
white sauce. 



74 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



TOMATO CUSTARD. 



Stew down and strain sufficient canned tomatoes to measure one pint. 
Add four eggs well beaten, ten drops of onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. 
Fill buttered custard cups and steam or bake until set in the center. Serve 
with cream sauce. 




SERVING TOMATOB.S IN CUPS AND COCOTTKS. 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 

For stuffing, tomatoes should be firm and of good size. Cut a piece from 
the stem end of each, and with a teaspoon scoop out the centers. Many 
left-overs, such as chopped cold meats, cereals, macaroni or bread crumbs, 
may be used for stuffing. Whatever the mixture used, season highly with 
salt and pepper and onion juice or chopped parsley and enrich with melted 
butter. When filled, the tomato may be placed in a baking dish or, as in the 
illustration, baking cups, and bake in a hot oven. The illustration also 
shows tomatoes stuffed, baked in cocottes, and each finished after baking by 
the addition of a poached egg. 



VEGETABLES 



75 



BAKED CORN IN PEPPER CASES. 

Cut from the cob sufficient boiled corn to measure one pint. Scald six 
or eight bull-nose peppers for five minutes, rub off the skin, cut off the stem 
end and scrape out all the seeds. Make a good cream sauce with one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one cupful of thin cream and 
one-half of a teaspoonful of salt. Fill the pepper shells with the mixed corn 
and sauce, place close together in a baking-dish and bake in a hot oven for 
half an hour. 







H 


^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B^' ^ 


^^^^ 




^^^^^^^H 






>}f^l 


j^ ^^^^^^^^^1 




1 ^^ - ■.^#*p^*^ 


m£Ji 


i ^^ ^^^^^^^|. 


7^ 






i^ 


K-ik^ 




sPfiB 


pp^ 


^Bi ^^^^i^H^k«^' - ^ 


^ ■"•liUIK%l^»»» 








fi£»' 


7 






^iKf'X 


-"^ 




■■t 


J*^ 


* ♦ 





BROILED CORN. 

CORN ON THE COB IS REFUSED BY MANY BECAUSE OF THE AWKWARDNESS IN HANDLING AT THE TABLE; 
YET. WHEN SO COOKED. WE GET BEST ITS FULL SWEETNESS. WHERE THERE IS A GAS BROILER IN THE 
KITCHEN, CORN CAN BE BROILED ON THE COB, BASTING IT WITH A LITTLE MELTED BUTTEK AND SERVING 
IT PILED ON A NAPKIN. 



CORN IN TOMATO CUPS. 

Corn which is too old for serving on the cob is cut raw, seasoned, a table- 
spoonful of butter added to each pint and packed in tomatoes from which the 
centres have been scooped out. These are baked in a quick oven for half an 
hour. 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




D < 

o 



O » 



2« 



o2 

O H 

P.a 



£5 



S5 *< 

M (O 






SALADS 



77 




CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

COOK CAULIFLOWER. THEN PULL APART INTO FLOWERETTES; MARINATE WITH VINEGAR. OLIVE OIL, 
PEPPER AND SALT OVER NIGHT. WHEN READY TO SERVE, DRAIN AND ARRANGE ON A DISH; TUCK BETWEEN THE 
FLOWERETTES BOILED BEETS CUT INTO SLICES '.PLACE LETTUCE HEART IN TOP AND WREATHE BASE WITH 
STIFF MAYONNAISE. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

From a can of tomato take all the large pieces of pulp, press them 
through a sieve and season highly with salt, pepper, a little tarragon vinegar 
and a few drops of onion juice. Put this mixture in the freezer and freeze 
as for a water ice. Take out the dasher, work down well in the can, repack 
the freezer and put in the cellar for a couple of hours. Grate or chop fine 
some English walnuts. Serve the frozen tomato on a bed of lettuce leaves 
and sprinkle thickly with the walnuts. Serve mayonnaise in a bowl. 

CORNED BEEF SALAD. 

Cut one pound of corned beef in dice. Add one tablespoonful of freshly 
grated horseradish and marinate with a French dressing. Serve in a bed of 
watercress and pass more dressing vvith it 



78 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




CRANBERRY AND CHEESE SALAD. 



A VERY STIFF JELLY IS MOLDED IN A JELLY TUMBLER; THEN SLIPPED ONTO A DISH CONTAINING CHEESE 

SALAD BALLS ON LETTUCE. 

LETTUCE SALAD WITPI CHEESE BALLS. 

This is a novelty in the salad line. Take a cream cheese and work smooth 
with a fork, adding gradually just enough thick, sweet cream to make a stiff 
paste. Divide into three or more portions. Color one portion green with 
parsley and chives pounded to a paste ; another red, with pounded sweet red 
pepper or spiced beets chopped fine; a third yellow, with crushed yolk of 
a hard boiled ^gg] a fourth brown, with pounded pecan nuts. Mold in tiny 
balls and put one or more of each color in nests made with lettuce leaves. 

CHEESE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Cheese and celery salad will assume a very decorative effect if the house- 
keeper owns one of the little cone shaped molds with revolving knife or cutter 
used for dipping ice cream from the freezer. Rub the inside lightly with olive 
oil ; mix cream cheese to a paste with a little cream. Line the mold with this, 
fill the center with celery cut fine and mixed with mayonnaise ; carefully turn 
out on a lettuce leaf. 



SALADS 



7Q 




A DAINTY, INBXPENSIVE COMPANY SALAD IS MADE BY CUTTING COLO, BOILED POTATOES WITH A FRENCH 

scoop; marinate with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper for an hour; then heap into cups made of 
BOSTON lettuce; sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve with mayonnaise. 




BAKED BEAN SALAD. 

served with a FRENCH DRESSING; GARNISHED WITH 80U« CUCUMBER PICKLES AND PIMOLAS. 



8o 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




ST. GERMAIN E SALAD. 

BROILED SIRLOIN STEAK; MARINATE OVER NIGHT WITH OLIVE OIL, VINEGAR. PAPRICA AND SALT. 
SERVING, GARNISH WITH LATTICED CUCUMBERS AND BOSTON LETTUCE HEARTS. 




CREAM CHEESE SALAD. — BBCIPB ON OPPOBITB TkOm. 



SALADS 



8i 



CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

A good salad is made with cream cheese by molding into small rolls 
(using butter hands or pats), arranging each in a nest of blanched lettuce 
leaves and serving with French dressing or a mayonnaise. A variation of 
this is made by molding the cheese into balls and pressing the half of an 
English walnut meat on one side. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Firm, raw tomatoes may be hollowed out from the stem end and filled 
with a variety of edibles when to be served as a salad. Finely diced meat, well 
marinated; one or more cooked vegetables, raw cucumbers and onions, water- 
cress and celery, as well as any other greens or fruits which will accord in taste. 
When possible it is best to skin the tomatoes, and this 'may be done either by a 
quick scalding or peeling with a verv sharp knife. 




LAMB'S TONGUE SALAD. 

ILICB COLD BOILBO TONGUS; ARRANGB XT ON BLANCHED LBTTUCX AND TLACS STIFF MAYONNAXSB OM SACK 
SLXCB. IN CBNTBS OF DISH MOUND UF TOMATO JBLLY CUT INTO CUBJU. 



82 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




LUNCHKON DISH — recu'E on opposite page. 




WATER LILY SALAD— uciri on opposite paci. 



SALADS 



83 



LUNCHEON DISH. 

To one pint of cooked minced soup meat, veal, lamb or pork add one 
small onion, one tablespoonful parsley, three stalks celery, all minced very fine, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and mix into a paste. Press into a 
mold and set on ice to chill. When ready to serve dip into hot water to loosen; 
invert onto a cold dish and wreathe with tomatoes sliced, and top with mayon- 
naise, to which add minced chives and four tablespoonfuls of froth from whipped 
cream. 

LILY SALAD. 

A sin:ple lunch salad is made with hard-boiled eggs. Shell them and cut 
into halves lengthwise. Cut the whites into long strips, arrange on lettuce 
leaves like pond lily petals, and in the center of each drop a little of the yolk, 
pressing it through a fine sieve. If a couple of the shelled eggs are dropped 
into beet vinegar for a few days the whites will be tinted a pretty pink, which 
in this salad will show to advantage. 









'■ 4»> ■ 


^^^MA r - ^^-jLi%%i * * , S\^^ 


^^^ig^^s^ 



MARIGOLD SALAD. 

ANY VEGETABLE, FISH OR MEAT SALAD IS MOUNDED UP ON A LETTUCE NEST; THEN COVERED WITH A 
MAYONNAISE. PETALS CUT FROM HARD BOILED EGGS STEEPED IN WATER COLORED WITH SAFFRON ARE ARRANGED 
AROUT CENTERS CUT FROM OLIVES. 



84 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




ITALIAN SALAD — EBCiri oir opfosztb page. 



SALADS 



85 



YANKEE SALAD. 

This salad may aptly be termed Yankee, since all its ingredients are home- 
grown vegetables — peas, cucumbers, beans, spinach, radishes and lettuce. The 
dressing is made with apple vinegar^ olive oil and salt. 

♦ ITALIAN SALAD. 

Mold cooked macaroni in tomato jelly ; when serving, fill the center with a 
mixture of cooked chopped clams, macaroni and celery moistened with mayon- 
naise. Garnish with sliced pimolas and lettuce. 




LOBSTER SALAD WITH SERVICE. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 



Plunge the lobster head downward, into a kettle containing sufficient warm 
water to completely submerge it. Cover, bring quickly to the boil, add one 
tablespoonful of salt, and boil thirty minutes for a lobster weighing under two 



86 TAlil.K TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

pounds. When done, take from the water and set aside ; when cold enough to 
handle, break apart the tail and body, using a twisting motion; twist off the 
claws, and remove the body from the shell. Carefully lay aside th« green fat, 
and coral ; remove the stomach, which is directly under the head, and the woolly 
gills; break open the body, and pick out the meat, crack open the claws, and 
remove the meat. Cut the soft shell on the under side of the tail, and draw out 
the meat. On the under side and running the entire length of the tail, is the 
intestine, which may be white, red or black in color ; remove and add the meat 
to that already laid aside. Cut all in pieces about one half inch in size, and 
marinate with a French dressing. This may be done some time before it is 
served. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and garnish with mayonnaise. Or the back 
and tail shells may be fitted together, lined with the lettuce leaves, the salad 
laid in, and the best looking claws used in addition to the other garnishes. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

In a saucer or small shallow bowl place a half teaspoonful of salt, one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of black or white pepper and four table spoonfuls of 
olive oil. Stir occasionally until the salt is partly dissolved, then add, a few 
drops at a time, one tablespoonful of plain or tarragon vinegar. Stir briskly and 
constantly in one direction, being careful that each addition of vinegar is thor- 
oughly emulsified or blended before the next is dropped in. When done the 
mixture will be a little thicker than at first, will be of a grayish tint, and no 
drops of vinegar can be seen. This dressing must be used as soon as made, as 
it quickly separates. 

When shredded cabbage is to be added to the salad it will be found advisable 
to add a tiny pinch of dry mustard to this mixture. Where sliced or chopped 
raw onion is objected to as an ingredient of a salad the necessary onion flavor 
may be had by adding half a teaspoonful or more of strained onion juice to 
the dressing. 

MAYONNAISE. 

For a small quantity allow a half pint of olive oil, the yolk of one raw eggj 
a third of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne and about one tablespoonful 
of vinegar, or twice as much clear lemon juice, the exact amount of the acid to 
be regulated according to its strength. 

Have both ingredients and utensils as cold as possible, as this facilitates 
the process. Drop the tgg yolk in a bowl, add seasoning and stir with a fork or 
spoon (always in the same direction) until the Ggg begins to coagulate. Now 
add a very little oil — hardly more than a quarter of a teaspoonful at a time — 
and stir rapidly until it is assimilated. Continue to add oil until the mixture 



SALADS 



«7 



is very thick, add a few drops of the acid and stir again, then use more oil. Add 
very little acid at first or the dressing will not thicken properly. Add more oil, 
as before, until it thickens, then drop in a little acid. Proceed in this way until 
all the oil has been used and the mayonnaise is glossy, thick and like a jelly. 
Place in a tumbler or jar, cover and keep in the coldest place possible. If 
properly made and kept from contact with heat or air this mayonnaise will 
keep nicely for a week or more. 

To change the character of this mayonnaise there may be added to it at 
the time it is to be used an equal bulk of stiffly whipped cream or one-half as 
much whipped white of egg. 




TOMATO JELLY. 

CUCUMBER SLICES AND THE WHITE OF EGGS ARE PLACED IN THE MOLDS FIRST. THEN THE JELLY POURED 
IN WHEN PARTIALLY CONGEALED. SERVE WITH BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Bearnaise is one of the most delicious of sauces. To make it, simmer 
slowly together one-half of a cupful each of tarragon vinegar and Rhine or any 
white wine, one tablespoonful of peppercorns, a dash of cayenne and two 
tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion. When the liquid has almost evaporated 
lift off until partly cooled, then stir in two slightly beaten egg yolks. Stand 
over hot water and stir slowly but steadily ; as the sauce heats drop in bits of 
butter, using three tablespoonfuls altogether. Lift occasionally that it may not 
thicken too fast. When very thick strain into a hot bowl, This sauce is equally 
good cold, 



88 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




SUMMER SALAD — mcipb on opposits pack. 




SHAMROCK SALAD— RKciPi ox opposits pags. 



SALADS 



89 



SUMMER SALAD. 

Pare, eye, slice and cut a ripe pineapple in cubes; slice tender celery. To 
each pint mix in a half pint of broken pecan nuts ; moisten with mayonnaise. 
Mound up, mask with mayonnaise and garnish with pecan nuts, sliced pimolas, 
young German lettuce and sliced hard boiled eggs. 

SHAMROCK SALAD. 

Any prepared salad is mixed with mayonnaise tinted green and mounded 
on top of round disks of toasted bread. Halved mint cherrries form sham- 
rocks on top, with strips of cucumber pickle for the stems. 




FOR THE SALAD COURSE. 

Cream cheese and Bar-le-Duc preserves served with deviled wafers make 
a delicious accompaniment to the salad course. Grated stale cheese is mixed 
with a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, salt and butter to form a paste; 
spread on wafers and heat in oven. 

Mix with one cake of Philadelphia cheese one-half jar of Bar-le-Duc cur- 
rants or gooseberries, pack into a dish so as to cut into cubes and when cold 
serve on lettuce leaves. 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




-^ •— < "^ Cn C hfc 



O o 
c^ C i- 



O U-' 



:3 



u 

a, 



rt 



2 rt 



<v 



V. ^ 



G O ^ 

' B" o 
' rti 3 u 
I Si «-»'+^ 

• r; 1) a; 
i o|S 

! Si-£.s 

, ^ a; cd 

rt O S 
. C 

O aj .■*-* 

r- ^"^ 

^^ ^ 

^ b£)(U 
T O ^ 

^ OTT 

^ W< 

cd 

O 
CO u u 

4-» ■*-• 
rt rt 



rt^ X'^^ 

1^ O ^ 

^ <L> c Ic 

5 '^^ ^ 



C 

J? 

b« 

rt 



5.C ^ 
o o 



rt 

o ^ a.+^ 
■|c ^ - 

c.y 3 •" 
°-5.iL rt 
S o " o 
rt °^c 

r- -O O -^ 



tc 



c 
o 

c 



DESSERTS 



91 




BLANC MANGE 

MOLDRD IN A FANCY OR PLAIN BORDER MOLD AND FILLED WITH LARGE STRAWBERRIES, RED OR BLACK CAPS, 
AND dRftVED WITH PLAIN CREAM AND SUGAR. 



FLUFFY CORN STARCH BLANC :SfANGE. 

Scald one pint of milk in a double boiler. Mix together three almost level 
tablespoon fuls of corn starch, three tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar and one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Mix to a cream with cold milk, turn quickly 
into the hot milk and stir until smoothly thickened. Cover and cook for forty- 
five minutes. Whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff, dry froth. Turn into 
the corn starch, stir and mix lightly for three minutes, add any desired flavor- 
ing and take from the fire. Turn into wetted molds and set aside until cold, 
then turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream and sugar. This dessert 
may be varied by adding the yolks of eggs three minutes before stirring in the 
beaten whites. 



92 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



ORANGE AND COCOANUT PUDDING. 



This attractive pudding is simply made. Butter very thoroughly a tall 
crimpled mold, sprinkle the bottom and sides with grated cocoanut, using the 
fresh nut rather than the dessicated article, if possible. Crumble rather fine a 
stale sponge or cup cake. Fill the mold almost to the top with alternate layers 




ORANGE AND COCOANUT PUDDING. 



of cake, cocoanut and sliced or pulped oranges. Beat well four eggs, add one 
pint of milk, a pinch of salt and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Baste this slowly 
over the mixture in the mold and let stand for ten or fifteen minutes that the 
cake may absorb the custard. Steam for from forty-five minutes to an hour, 
according to size, and garnish with sections of oranges and whipped cream. 



DESSERTS 



93 



RHUBARB FOOL. 

Rhubarb fool is made by mixing carefully together just before serving 
equal proportions of stewed rhubarb sieved and well sweetened and rich cream, 
both very cold. 

PLUM PUDDING CROQUETTES. 

Heat a pint of milk in a double boiler. When steaming hot, add sufficient 
soft, stale bread crumbs to absorb the milk — it will take about a cupful. Cover 
and cook for ten minutes, then add one egg beaten with two tablespoon fuls of 
sugar, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of nutmeg, one-eighth of a 




PLUM PUDDING CROQUETTES. 

teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon. Stir until the egg is slightly cooked, 
then add one cupful of chopped fruit — citron, raisins and currants, with, if 
liked, some dates, figs or prunes. Put aside until very cold, then shape into 
small croquettes. Dip into slightly beaten egg and roll lightly in fine, dry 
crumbs — stale sponge cake crumbs may be used, if on hand — and fry in smoking 
hot fat. Either a hard or soft sauce may be served with them. 



94 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

PLUM PUDDING. 

That its flavor may be properly developed this plum pudding should be 
made at least a fortnight ahead of time, and, as it will keep for months, the 
quantities given will make three medium-sized puddings. Put one pound of beef 
suet and one-half of a pound of seeded raisins through the food chopper; over 
the latter pour one-third of a cupful of brandy. Cover and set aside. Mix one 
pound and a quarter of seeded raisins, one-quarter of a pound of cleaned cur- 
rants, two ounces of shredded citron, one ounce of candied lemon peel, one 




IIURMNC. PLUM PUDDING. 

ounce of candied orange peel, two ounces of blanched almonds cut into strips, 
one tcaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground cloves and one grated 
nutnieg. With the chopped suet mix three-quarters of a pound of fine, stale 
bread crumbs free from crust, one teaspoonful of salt, one pound of eranulated 
sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of an orange and a lemon. Work these 
mixtures together with the hands, kneading into the mass a wineglassful each 
of Madeira, nmi and brandy, one-half of a cupful of cream and eight well-beaten 
eggs. This should make a compact mass, but if not moist enough to cling to- 
gether, add a few more spoonfuls of cream. Grease well the molds with soft but- 



DESSERTS 



95 



ten Two or more large ones, or any number of small ones, may be used. The 
old-time way was to use pint earthen bowls tied over with pudding cloths, and 
earthen or granite bowls or molds are preferable, because the puddings can 
be set away in them, while they must be turned out of tin. Now that indi- 
vidual molds are so fashionable, the small three-ounce jars in which beef ex- 
tract is put up can be used to advantage. If in large molds the puddings should 
be steamed steadily for eight hours ; three to four hours will do for individual 
puddings. When cold they should be set away or hung in a cold, dry place, 
and when needed for use they are to be again steamed for from one to two 
hours, according to size. Thrust into the top of the steaming pudding a sprig 
of holly, lay round it a ring of cube sugar, each piece dipped in alcohol, set fire 
to the sugar and send blazing to the table. 



■P 






Mk 




k^^^r^ tmitBf^^ ^^ ^^B 


' 


td 


S©^* \ ^^^ 



INDIVIDUAL CHRISTMAS PUDDINGS. 

A SPICE PUDDING STEAMED IN ROUND BOTTOMED CUPS IP ONE DOES NOT POSSESS THE SMALL BOMB MOLDS. 
WILL PROVE AN ATTRACTIVE DESSERT FOR THE CHRISTMAS DINNER. LARGE FRENCH PRUNES ARE COOKED; 
THEN- STUFFED WITH MARSHMALLOWS; DIPPED INTO BRANDY, PLACED ON EACH PUDDING AND IGNITED JUST 
AS TIIEY ARE BROUGHT TO THE TABLE. 



96 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




IXDIAN MEAL PUDDTKC WITH APPLE M'lTI 



THE OLD-TIME INDIAN OR CORNMEAL PUDDING IS AS* POPULAR TO-DAY AS EVER. THE NEWEST DISH FOR 
IT IS OP THE PRETTY BROWN AND WHITE, GRACEFUL IN SJ^PE, WITH TWO PROJECTING HANDLES AND THREE 
TINY FEET. AS AN ADDED GARNITURE WB SHOW SUCH A jFUDDING FINISHED WITH APPLE WHIP DROPPED ON 
AT INTERVALS ROUND THE EDGE AND ON EACH DOT OF WHIP A CANDIED CHERRY. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mix one scant cupful of corn meal with sufficient cold water to make a 
paste, stir it into one quart of milk and cook for fifteen minutes' 'stirring often. 
Stand aside for ten minutes, then stir in* one teaspoonful of salt, one-half a 
teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of cjnnamon, one cupful ^ molasses and 
one cupful of finely chopped beef suet. Turn into a baking dishj mix and pour 
over the top two cupfuls of cold milk and one cupful of cold water. Do not stir, 
but place in a moderate oven and bake very slowly for four hours. 

RICE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

A variation of the usual rice pudding calls for equal quantities of riCe 
and tapioca — one-half of a cupful of each. Cook in a double boiler in three 
pints of milk until the tapioca is transparent, then add one cupful of seeded 
raisins, one cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon and a grating of nutmeg. Bake this in a moderate oven for three hours, 
adding more milk if necessary. 



DESSERTS 



97 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE. 

One-third of a box of gelatine is soaked in three tablespoonfuls of cold 
water until soft. An equal amount of boiling water is added to one cupful of 
sugar and cooked until the sugar is dissolved, when the gelatine is added, and it 
is taken from the fire, strained, and one tablespoonful of lemon juice and one 




STRAWBERRY SPONGE. 



cupful of Strawberry juice added. As it chills and thickens the whites of three 
eggs are beaten until stiff and dry and one cupful and a half of thick cream 
beaten to a solid froth. These are lightly mixed with the partly thickened 
liquid and all whisked together until spongy and quite stiff. Turn into a mold 
decorated with whole strawberries and set away until chilled. 



JUNKET WITH PUREE OF BANANAS. 

Pare and slice two bananas and put them in a saucepan over the fire with 
four tablespoonfuls of water; cook slowly until tender, then press through a 
puree. sieve; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a tablespoonful of orange juice, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a teaspoonful of gelatine in cold water. Stir 
until dissolved and pour into sherbet glasses. When chilled, fill up the glasses 
with a plain junket; serve ice-cold with sweetened cream. 



98 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




INDIVIDUAL BERRY SHORT-CAKES— descriptiom on opposite pace. 




RED RASPBERRY SHORT-CAKE— oucumoii o« orrosin vaoi. 



DESSERTS 



99 



INDIVIDUAL BERRY SHORT-CAKES. 

Baking powder biscuits are split; buttered while hot, and filled with 
crushed fruit and sugar. Garnish with halved berries. 

RED RASPBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

A short biscuit dough is baked in two oblong pans ; when done, butter and 
cover one with berries, and lay the other crust on top. Cover with berries and 
whipped cream. Put a generous laver of berries around the base. 

GRAPE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Soak one-third of a package of granulated gelatine in cold water; when 
soft stand over hot water until dissolved. Add this to a scant pint of grape 
juice, adding also sufficient powdered sugar (if necessary) to make very sweet. 




GRAPE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Stand in ice water and, as the mixture thickens, stir into it one cupful and a 
half of thick sweet cream whipped to a solid froth. Decorate the sides and bot- 
tom of the mold with blanched and split almonds, dipping each in a little dis- 
solved gelatine that it may adhere to the mold. Carefully turn in the mixture 
and set away on ice until firm. When serving, garnish with a bunch of grapes. 



lOO 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM.— UECIPE ox opposite paob. 




CHESTNUT BAVARIAN CREAM. 



Shell, blanch and steam until tender one quart of large chestnuts. Put 
aside a dozen or more of the largest and mash the rest while hot. Add to them 
one-half of a cupful of hot cream in which has been dissolved one tablespoonful 



DESSERTS 



lOI 



of granulated gelatine, previously soaked in a little cold water, a pinch of salt 
and one teaspoonful of vanilla. When cool and beginning to thicken, add one- 
half pint of thick cream whipped to a stiff froth, and one tablespoonful of 
sherry, and turn into a wetted fancv mold. When firm turn out on a serving 
dish and garnish with whipped cream, and the reserved nuts dipped into white 
of egg and rolled in powdered sugar. 

STRAWniCRRV IIAVARI/W CREAM. 

For a delightful strawberry Bavarian cream, line an oval mold with strips 
of paraffinc paper. Round the sides fit split lady fingers, cutting off the ends. 
Soak one-half of a package oi granulated gelatine in one-half of a cupful of 
cold water, then dissolve over hot water. C'rush one quart of hulled and rinsed 
berries with one cupful of powdered sugar, let stand for two hours, then rub 
through a sieve. Add the dissolved gelatme, and as the mixture thickens, stir in 
lightly one pint of thick cream whipped to a stiff froth. Turn this into the pre- 
pared mold and put aside. W'hen firm, transfer to a fancy dish, and garnish 
with whole berries and more whipped cream. 




DEMONSTRATION-MOLDS. 
No. I — Heart border mold for gelatine jellies. No. 2 — High oval mold, pineapple pattern, for blanc- 
manges. No. .-^ — Circular plain mold, handy for mashed potato borders. No. 4 — Sun-ray mold for 
baked puddings or loaf cake. No. .«; — Fluted mold for cake or puddings. No. 6 — Mountain peak mold 
for Bavarian creams. No. 7 — Bomb mold for ices. No. 8 — Circular mold, auirl design, for blanc- 
manges. Bavarian creams, etc No. — Oval border mold, which makes a hanosome potato frame for 
creamed chicken or other meats or sponge cakes; then fill center space with fruit ana whipped cream. 
No. 10 — Individual mold for puddings, jellies, creams, or jellied salads. No. 11 — Individual timbale 
molds, corn pattern. No. 12 — Fish form for salads or timbale. No. 14 — Buck form for ice creams 
or ices. 



I02 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




RICE PATTIES ON SWEDISH FRITTERS— oucbiftion on opposite pao*. 



DESSERTS 



103 



PEAR DESSERT. 

Steamed rice is surrounded with halved pears cooked in syrup, flavored 
with lemon juice and ginger. Pecan nuts are placed in each pear where the 
core has been removed, and the syrup turned over the rice. Served either hot 
or cold, this makes a delicious dessert. 

RICE PATTIES ON SWEDISH FRITTERS. 

Form hot boiled rice into small cakes ; form a well in the center and place 
in this half an apricot or peach, which has been dipped into lemon juice, then 
generously sprinkled with sugar. Garnish with whipped cream put through a 
forcing bag. Serve ice cold on Swedish fritters which have a layer of apricot 
or peach marmalade spread over top. 




CUSTARDS WITH CITRON WISH BONES. 

ONX CDPFUL OF SWKBTtNKD APPLB lAUCI (NOT TOO WATEKY) IS WHIPrXD, SPOONFUL AT A TIMK, WITB| 

THB whitxs of foub bggs pbsviouslt bkatbn to a stiff fbotk. this is hbapbd in PBBTTT CBOCOT^ATB 

CUPS AND OABNISBBD WITH LITTLB WISHBONBS CUT FBOM CITBON. 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




VIOLET CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Lady fingers are dipped into fondant icing, tinted with violet colored paste, 
then fitted round the sides of an oval mold carefully lined with paraffine paper. 
The usual charlotte filling is flavored with violet extract suitably tinted and a 
few candied violets stirred through it. When turned from the mold the top is 
covered with cream, tmted and whipped solid, then passed through a pastry bag 
with a rose end tube. A few violets are scattered over it, and violets with 
angelica stems laid round the sides and fastened with a bit of soft fondant. 

MACAROON CREAM. 

Soak one tablespoonful of granulated gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water. Make a boiled custard with one cupful and a quarter of milk, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar and the yolks of three eggs. Add the soaked 
gelatine, stir until dissolved and set aside to cool. Stir in when quite thick one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, eight stale macaroons pounded and sifted and one heap- 
ing cupful of stiffly whipped cream. Turn into a wetted mold and in serving, 
' garnish with whipped cream. 



DESSERTS 



105 




CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

A CHARLOTTE RUSSE MIXTURE IS MOLDED IN A PAN LINED WITH LADY FINGERS; THE BOTTOM IS DECORATED 
M'lTK CITRON CUT INTO STEMS AND LEAVES, AND UNBLANCHED ALMONDS. PECANS OR RAISINS ARRANGED TO 
PORM FLOWERS. THE DISH WHEN SENT TO THE TABLE IS GARNISHED WITH CRYSTALLIZED STRAWBERRIES 
AND WHIPPED CREAM ROSES. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Soak one-quarter of a package of gelatine in one-quarter of a cupful of 
cold water. Beat together two eggs, one-third of a cupful of sugar and one 
cupful of milk ; stir over the fire in a double boiler until it is a thick custard. 
Add the soaked gelatine, take from the fire and stir until the gelatine has dis- 
solved, then strain. Set aside until it begins to thicken, then add one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and one tablespoonful of sherry, and whip hard. As it again 
begins to thicken add lightly one pint of heavy cream whipped to a firm froth 
and turn carefully through from the bottom for a moment or two. Have cups 
lined with split lady fingers or thin slices of sponge cake. Fill with the char- 
lotte and garnish with candied cherries or other fruits. 



io6 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Turn a small, square tin pan upside down and rub the outside lightly with 
a few drops of olive oil. Round it place split lady fingers a quarter of an inch 
apart, fastening them together with icing piped on with a bag and rose end 




tube. When the icing is firm carefully remove the cake frame from the mold 
and set it on a paper doily on a fanc}' plate. Fill it with a charlotte mixture 
which has been made long enough to be on the point of setting. Stand away 
for an hour or so, then decorate the top with icing and garnish with a few per- 
fect strawberries. 

TSARINA CREAM. 

Whip one pint of thick, heavy, sweet cream to a solid froth and color it pale 
green with leaf green color paste. Soak one-quarter of a cupful of gelatine in 
one-quaiter of a cupful of cold water, and when soft, stand over hot water until 
dissolved. When the first heat has passed, strain it into the cream and stand in 
a pan of cold water. Stir lightly every now and then, and as the mixture begins 
to thicken, add three tablespoon fu Is of sifted powdered sugar; in a moment or 
two add gradually four tablespoon fu Is of sherry, taking care that it thickens a 
little after each addition. Lastly, stir in a teaspoonful of vanilla and a half cup- 
ful of blanched and chopped almonds. Turn into fancy cups for serving, and 
garnish with bits of angelica or citron. 



DESSERTS 



107 




RASPBERRY PUDDING. 

SNOW PUDDING IS MOLDED IN A BORDER FORM I THE CENTER FILLED WITH BLACK OR RED RASPBERRIES. 
SERVED WITH PLAIN OR WHIPPED CREAM. 



CASTILIAN CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

A quarter of a box of gelatine soaked in a quarter of a cupful of water. 
Two squares of unsweetened chocolate. Three-quarters of a cupful of sugar. 
Four tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Stir the sugar, chocolate and boiling 
water over a slow fire until smooth, then add three-quarters of a cupful more of 
boiling water and boil steadily for five minutes. Add the gelatine and stir until 
dissolved. Strain and set away to cool. When cold add four tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and one teaspoonful of vanilla. When this mixture begins to thicken, 
add the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fold the whites in thor- 
oughly, and mold. Serve with a custard sauce. This dessert is most attractive 
when molded in a ring, or round mold and the center filled with the custard. It 
should be very spongy and light. 



io8 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




JAPANESE ICE CREAM. 



AN EGG CUSTARD IS THICKENED WITH BOILED RICE PUREE, THEN FLAVORED WITH STRONG GREEN TEA AND 
VANILLA. SERVE IN GLASS DISHES WITH PRESERVED GINGER CUBES. 




STRAWBERRY CROUSTADES. 

CUT ROUNDS FROM A SHEET OF TWO DAYS OLD 8P0NGB CAKX; THEN DIG WELLS IN CENTERS; DIP INTO 
BEATEN EGG AND DROP INTO SMOKING-HOT FAT; DRAIN AND WHEN COOL FILL WELLS WITH CHOPPED FRESH 
STRAWBERRIES AND COVER WITH WHIPPED CREAM; PLACE TWO LARGE BERRIES ON TOP. THESE BBERIB8 ARE 
DIPPED IN EGO white; THEN IN GRANULATED SUGAR AND DRIED BEFORE PLACING. 



DESSERTS 



log 




BANANA JELLY. 

MAKE A LEMON OR PINEAPPLE JELLY AND POUR OVER SLICED BANANAS 
SERVE WITH A BORDER OV WHIPPED CREAM AND SLICED BANANAS DIPPED 
PREVENT DISCOLORATION. 



IN LAYERS IN A FANCY TIN BOX. 
IN LEMON JUICE AND SUGAR TO 



RHUBARB JELLY. 

Rhubarb can be quickly converted into a delightful dessert. Wash and cut 
in inch pieces without skinning. To each quart add a pint of water and boil 
gently until it is a mush. Strain without pressure through two thicknesses of 
cheesecloth. Reheat and make ver>- sweet. Measure, and for a pint and a half 
soak a generous half package of granulated gelatine in a half cupful of cold 
water. When softened add the hot rhubarb, stir until dissolved and pour into 
wetted molds. Serve this with cream. 



TEA JELLY. 

Soak one-half of a box of gelatine in one-half of a cupful of cold water. 
Prepare a pint of moderately strong tea, pour it from the pot over the soaked 
gelatine. Add one cupful of sugar and stir until it is dissolved. Strain into a 
mold, set aside until firm, and serve with whipped cream. 



no TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




MINCE PIE WITH APPLE WHIP. 
MINCEMEAT. 

Four pounds of suet, freed from membranes, and put through a chopper; 
one good sized fresh beef tongue boiled until tender, cooled and chopped ; six 
pounds of apples, pared, cored and coarsely chopped ; three pounds of seedless 
raisins, six pounds of seeded raisins, one-half of them to be slightly chopped ; 
three pounds of cleaned currants, three pounds of citron put through the chop- 
ping machine, but using a coarse cutter, one pound each of figs, stoned prunes, 
candied orange and candied lemon peel, each chopped the sam.e as the citron ; 
one pound of finely chopped almonds, three pounds of brown sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls each of ground cinnamon, allspice and mace, one tablespoonful of 
ground cloves, one cupful of salt, four grated nutmegs, the grated rind and 
juice of half a dozen lemons, and one dozen oranges, one pint of preserved 
qumces cut fine, four glasses of crab apple jelly, one pint of molasses, one pint 
of sherry, three pints cf brandy, two quarts of cider, half of it to be boiled. Mix 
all the ingredients very thoroughly, cover and let stand in a cold place for twen- 
ty-four hours, then put up in preserve jars. 



PASTRY 



ITT 




PUFF PASTE DEMONSTRATION. 

TUE PASTE IS rOLDEO IN NAPKINS. THEN LAID IN TINS, ONE BENEATH AND ONE ON TOP, FILLED WITH 
ICE LUMPS TO CHILL THE PASTE. THE BUTTER LAID IN THE CENTER; THE PASTE FOLDED; A PAt6 CUT AND 
ONE BAKED. 



PUFF PASTE. 

Select for this a fine pastry Hour, bread flour will give a tough paste. Pastry 
flour is much whiter than bread flour and when rubbed through the fingers has 
the peculiar softness and fineness noticed in com starch. Weigh and sift one- 
half of a pound ; add to it a pinch of salt and sift a second time, then set in a 
cool place. Scald a bowl, fill with ice or very cold water ; wash the hands in 
warm soapy water, rinse in cold water and work and squeeze one-half of a 
pound of butter until it is waxy ; divide it in four pieces and pat each out in a 
thin cake, press out the water m a towel and place on ice until very firm. Have 
everything, utensils as well as materials, thoroughly chilled. Put aside a few 
spoonfuls of the flour to use in dusting the board; turn the remainder on a 
platter, make a hole in the centre ; drop in it one-half of the unbeaten white of 
an egg and one of the pats of butter, add gradually a little ice water, and with 



112 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

the fingers work to a smooth, quite firm doup:h, drawing the flour in toward the 
centre. Knead as if for JDread, cut in two pieces and roll each out on the board 
to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Break a second pat of butter and distribute 
it over one of the pieces of dough, cover with the other piece and pat gently 
with the pin, then gradually roll out: if the butter shows signs of breaking 
through, cover v/ith a pinch of fiour ; if the dough seems at all warm wrap in a 
cloth and set away until firm. Do this every time the paste seems soft. If it is 
wanted in a hurry put the wrapped paste between shallow pans filled with chop- 
ped ice. When rolled out in a long thin sheet turn in the two sides to make the 
sheet even, then fold in three, turn half way round (so that the ends are now 
the sides) and again roll out in a long thin sheet. Always roll from you and do 
not press heavily on the ends of the paste. After the second rolling fold again 
in the same way and put aside until thoroughly chilled. This is what chefs call 
giving the paste two "turns" and a "rest.'' 

When well chilled, put the paste on the board, give it two more "turns*' — 
roll out and fold twice — then again put it aside to "rest;" repeat this for the 
third time, then wrap the finished paste in a slightly floured cloth and set away 
for twelve hours. If not allowed to stand for this length of time before using 
it is apt to shrink in baking and so spoil the shape of the pate shells. 



PATE CASES. 

Roll pufl; paste out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Dip the cutter for 
an instant in boiling water then cut out a round ; repeat the dipping for each 
round. With a smaller cutter remove the centre of four out of five circles. 
Have a little unbeaten white of tgg in a saucer. Take an uncut circle for the 
bottom of each case ; dip the fingers or a pastry brush in the Qgg and brush round 
near the edge, being very careful not to touch the edge itself or the paste would 
not rise as it should. On this lay a cut circle; brush with Qgg (observing the 
same precaution with regard to the edges) and continue until there are four cut 
circles on each whole one. Place several inches apart on ungreased pans and 
put away until chilled. 

Have a very hot oven. Put a plug of stale bread loosely in the centre of 
each case and place in the oven. If there is more heat on one side than another 
the pans must be very carefully turned one or more times to ensure even baking. 
If well made and baked the cases will be very light, flaky and much increased in 
size. It is, however, quite difficult to make the paste and you may have to try 
several times before you succeed. It should be handled as little as possible dur- 
ing the making and always very lightly. 



PASTRY 



113 




PUMPKIN PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Peel and cut the pumpkin in pieces, removing seeds. Boil or steam 
until tender — the latter method is best, as by it none of the flavor of the pump- 
kin is lost. Mash and turn into a large shallow saucepan. Stand on the coolest 
part of the range, that the pumpkin may dry out as much as possible without 
burning. To each quart of this condensed pumpkin add four well beaten 
eggs, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one-half of a cupful of molasses and one 
scant quart of milk. If more sweetening is desired, add sugar to taste; then 
gradually add any desired amount of spices — ground cinnamon, ginger and a 
little nutmeg; one teaspoonful each of the first two are the usual proportions 
used. Line deep pie dishes with pastry, fill with the prepared pumpkin and 
bake in a moderate oven. To facilitate the baking, it is a good plan to scald 
the milk before adding it to the pumpkin ; then fill and bake the pies as quickly 
as possible. Serve very cold. Just before serving, some stiffly whipped cream 
may be piped round the pie, as is shown in the illustration. 



114 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




FROZEN COFFEE 

WITH WHIPPED CREAM GARNISH AND CRYSTALLIZED MINT. MUDDLERS OR LONG-HANDLED ICE SPOONS 

ARE USED TO EAT WITH. 

A cooling dish for warm weather is frozen coffee. To make this, coarsely 
ground coffee is steeped in milk in a double boiler, using about three table- 
spoonfuls to each quart. After twenty minutes infusion in the hot milk the 
mixture is carefully strained and a scant cupful of sugar dissolved in it. When 
chilled add one teaspoonful and a half of vanilla extract and freeze slowly 
to an ice. This is heaped in tall glasses, a spoonful of whipped cream placed on 
top, and several crystallized mint leaves added as a garnish. To prepare these 
leaves select them of good size, rinse in cold water and dry very thoroughly 
between cloths. Boil together for five minutes one cupful of granulated sugar 
and one-third of a cupful of hot water. Take from the fire and, without 
stirring, dip each leaf in this syrup, then in fine granulated sugar. Lay separate- 
ly on paraffine paper until cold, and keep in a cool, dry place until needed. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



"5 




. WINTERGREEN SHERBET. 

Boil together for three minutes one quart of water and one cupful and a 
quarter of granulated sugar. Chill and color it a rather deep pink, as freezing 
will lighten its tint. Flavor with a teaspoonful or more of wintergreen extract, 
according to strength. Freeze until moderately firm ; add a meringue made by 
heating together the white of an egg and two tablespoon fu Is of sugar until 
stiff and glossy. Blend this thoroughly with the sherbet, then finish freezing; 
repack and set aside for two hours to ripen. Serve in punch glasses, decorating 
each with wintergreen berries or tiny red wintergreen candies. 

ITALIAN SHERBET. 

Boil together for fifteen minutes one quart of water and one pound of 
granulated sugar. Take from the fire and set aside. When cold add half of a 
cupful of strained lemon juice, one cupful and a half of orange juice, the same 
amount of grape fruit juice and four tablespoon fuls of sherry. Strain and 
freeze slowly. Serve heaped in glasses or in the skins of the oranges or 
grape fruit, which for that purpose have been kept perfect after having re- 
moved pulp and juice. 



ii6 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




FANCY ICE CREAM MOLDS. 




MUSKMELON CIRCLES. 

REMOVE THE RIND FROM MELONS, THEN CUT INTO CIRCULAR SLICES; DISCARD THE SEEDS AND PILL THE 
CENTER CAVITY WITH VANILLA OR APRICOT ICE CREAM, OR.\NGE OR LEMON ICE; CRYSTALLIZED CHERRIES ARB 
CUT INTO QUARTERS TO DECORATE THE TOP. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



117 




ICE CREAM IN MELONS. 

VERY TEMPTING IS STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM PACKED IN HALVED GEM MUSKMELONS AND GARNISHED WITH 

HALVED BERRIES. 



ICE CREAM WITH CRUSHED FRUIT. 

The various sundae combinations which have been so popular at soda and 
ice cream counters are perfectly feasible at home and make a specially good 
dessert. Prepare a plain vanilla ice cream and serve in punch glasses, pouring 
over the top of each dish of cream a few spoonfuls of crushed fruit, plain or 
mixed, or some made cold sauce. The foundation of these cold sauces is about 
like this : Boil together for ten minutes a half pint of granulated sugar and one 
pint of water. Add a teaspoonful of granulated gelatine which has been soaked 
in two or three tablespoon fuls of cold water. Take off, stir until the gelatine 
is dissolved and strain. To this when cold add any flavoring desired. In place 
of all water part cream may be used and melted chocolate added; with the 
chocolate some finely cut preserved ginger and a few spoonfuls of ginger 
syrup is delicious. Part fruit juice or maple syrup may be used, and chopped 
nuts, candied fruits or crumpled macaroons all give variety and individuality. 



ii8 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




INDEPENDENCE LOAF. 



FOR THE FOURTH OF TULY HAVE THE STRAWBERRY ICE, VANILLA AND VIOLET ICE CREAM MOLDED IN LAYERS, 
IN A BRICK OR LOAF, THE TOP DECORATED WITH BLANCHED ALMONDS AND SLICED ANGELICA. 

FRUIT ICES. 

The following general rule can be quickly adapted to any kind of fruit. 
Prepare the fruit by hulling or peeling, slice if necessary and mash with a 
wooden beetle. To each quart add a half cupful of sugar and the juice of a 
small lemon and let stand in a cool place for an hour or more. When a clear 
ice is desired squeeze through a cloth, otherwise simply rub through a sieve. 
Have on hand a syrup made by boiling together for five minutes one pound 
of sugar and one pint of water: this, if bottled and kept cool will stand for 
some time without spoiling. Taste the fruit and add sufficient syrup to make it 
very sweet. Measure and dilute with an equal amount of ice water then 
freeze. To convert it into a sherbet add, when half frozen, a meringue made 
by whipping together the white of one egg and three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
until stiff and glossy. 

ORy\NGE AND GRAPE ICE. 

Grate the yellow rind from a large orange and one lemon, pour over this 
one cupful and a half of boiling water and let infuse for ten minutes, then 
strain. Dissolve one pound and a half of granulated sugar in this, bring to 
the boiling point, add one cupful and a half of strained orange juice and a 
half cupful of lemon juice, and set aside until cold. Now add one pint of 
pure grape juice and freeze. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



119 



PLUM PUDDING ICE CREAM. 

Scald a pint of milk, add to it four eggs beaten with one cupful and a half 
of sugar. Stir constantly over hot water until it forms a rich custard ; strain, 
and set aside to cool. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of cocoa in one-half of 
a cupful of boiling water and boil for a moment. Chill this and add to 
the cold custard with one tablespoonful of vanilla and one pint of cream. 
Shred sufficient citron to measure one-half of a cupful; steam one-half of a 
cupful of seeded raisins and one-quarter of a cupful of sultanas until plump 
and tender. Blanch and cut fine two dozen almonds; mix these, add just 
enough sherry to moisten, and let stand for an hour. Pour the mixed cream 
into the freezer and freeze until like a thick mush. Open, and work in the 
fruit, then finish freezing. In serving, garnish with whipped cream and holly. 




LEMON ICE SERVED IN LEMON BASKETS, A SLICE OF CRYSTALLIZED 
LEMON PLACED ON EACH. 

We show a somewhat novel method of serving lemon ice. The fruit 
selected is small and quite round ; a thick slice is cut from the end of each lemon 
in such a way as to leave a strip which will serve as a handle; and the pulp 
scooped out with a spoon ; the latter is then squeezed, mixed with three times 
as much sugar and five times as much water and frozen. The cut end of each 
lemon is cut in scallops or points, and the rind baskets are packed in ice and 
salt until they are needed for serving ; they are then wiped dry, filled with the 
frozen ice and served on a platter surrounded by small fancy cakes. 



120 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




BRIDE CUPS. 

FOR A HOMB WEDDING, LAYERS OP VIOLET, DELICATE GREEN AND WHITE ICE CREAM. MOLDED CUP SHAPE 
AND DECORATED WITH CRYSTALLIZED VIOLETS, IS A DAINTY AND SIMPLE WAY TO SERVE ICES. THIS IDEA CAN 
BE CARRIED OUT IN BLANC-MANCS AS A POUNDATION FOR A SIMPLE COMPANY DESSERT. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



T2I 



BISQUE LOAF. 

Scald one pint of cream, dissolve in it one cupful of sugar, add another 
pint of cream and cool quickly. Add one teaspoonful of vanilla, one table- 
spoonful of caramel and one-third of a cupful of sherry and freeze. Beat 
into it a crumb mixture made of two ladyfingers, one-quarter of a pound of 
macaroons and four kisses, all stale enough to be rolled fine. Pack into a 
round or oblong mold, cover, bind with a strip of buttered muslin and pack 
in ice and salt for several hours. When ready to serve turn out on a lace paper 
doily on a platform and sprinkle thickly with blanched Jordan alm.onds. 




FROZEN PEACHES AND CREAM. 

POUR ONE QUART OF RIPE PEACHES, PARED AND PITTED, INTO A FREEZER, AFTER SPRINKLING WITH ONE 
PINT OF FINE SUGAR AND JUICE OF ONE LEMON; ADD ONE PINT OF PLAIN SWEET CREAM AND TURN THE 
DASHER UNTIL FROZEN. PACK IN A BRICK MOLD LINED WITH LADYFINGKRS, ON EACH OF WHICH HAS BEEN 
PLACED COOKED CITRON. CUT INTO STEMS AND PETALS. PLACE CITRON STEMS AND FLOWERS ON THE BOTTOM OF 
MOLD. COVER MIXTURE WITH OILED PAPER; TIB THE COVER OVER AND FOUR MELTED SUET AROUND TBB 
EShX: PACK IN ICE AND SALT FOR TWO HOURS. 



122 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




CAKES 



123 




HOME MADE WEDDING CAKE. 

A ROUND WEDDING CAKE IS FIRST ICED PLAIN; WHEN DRY, FRILLS AND TINY ROSETTES OF ROYAL ICING 
AKE PIPED ON BY AID OF STIFF PAPER CORNUCOPIAS AND STAR TUBES AND IN THE CENTER IS PLACED A SUGAR 
RUSE, FROM WHICH EXTEND SMALL FERN FRONDS, WHILE LITTLE SILVER PELLETS FORM ROSETTES AND BUDS 
AROUND THEM. 



BRIDES CAKE. 

Sift, twice, one pound of pastry flour. Seed and cut fine one pound and 
a half of raisins, pick over and separate the same weight of cleaned currants. 
Blanch one-quarter of a pound of almonds, and while still soft cut them in 
long strips. Chop or cut very fine one-quarter of a pound each of candied citron, 
orange and lemon peels ; grate the rind of one orange and one lemon. Cream 
one pound of butter, gradually sift in one pound of powdered sugar and beat 
long and hard until very creamy and light. Have ready a dozen eggs. Break 
two at a time into the creamy mixture, and beat each time until thoroughly 
incorporated ; if the mixture shows signs of breaking or "curdling," sift in a 
portion of the flour. When all the eggs have been added, gradually add the 
remainder of the flour and a half teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful each 
of allspice, mace, nutmeg and cloves and one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and 



124 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 

beat long and hard. Stir in the fruit, which has been well floured, the grated 
rinds and one gill of brandy. Pour into a large circular cake pan, the sides of 
which are straight and which has been lined with several thicknesses of stiff 
paper. Cover with buttered paper and bake in a slow oven. It will take from 
three to four hours, depending upon thickness and the oven heat ; it is better 
to give a slower and longer baking than to risk burning the cake. When done 



MARGUERITE WEDDING CAKE. 

A WEDDING CAKE IS DECORATED WITH DAISIES STAMPED OUT OF ALMOND ICING PASTE, THE CENTERS OP TINY 
SILVER DRAGBES. THESE ARE PLACED ON THE CAKE WHILE THE PLAIN ICING IS STILL MOIST. 

let stand for half an hour, then turn carefully out on a wire screen to cool. 
Let stand for twenty four hours before icing. 

To ice such a cake drop the whites of three eggs in a bowl. Have ready 
two pounds or more of sifted confectioners' sugar, the exact amount needed 
depending upon the size of the eggs. Add two tablespoon fuls of sugar to the 
whites and begin to beat, using long, firm strokes. When the sugar is thorough- 
ly incorporated add two more spoonfuls, and so continue until the mixture 



CAKES 



125 



becomes fairly thick. Add gradually one tablespoonful of strained lemon 
juice and continue. When so thick that a clean cut can be made in it with a 
wsharp knife, cover closely and set it aside for a couple of hours. Dust the 
cake slightly with flour, brushing and fanning off as much as possible. Spread 
a thin layer of frosting over top and sides and put away until next day. Add 




STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

A LOAF CAKE TINTED PINK AND FLAVORED WITH FRESH STRAWBERRY JUICE IS ICED WITH A DELICATE 

riSTACHIO OR PINK ICING AND MARKED TO CUT INTO SLICES. LARGE UNHULLED BERRIES DIPPED INTO 

UNBEATEN WHITE OF EGG AND THEN IN FINE RED SUGAR ARE USED FOR A GARNISH. 



a little more sugar to the icing in the bowl and give the cake a second coat, 
somewhat thicker than before. When this is dry add a little more sugar to the 
remainder of the icing, if needed, and use it with pastry bag and tubes to 
ornament in any preferred patterns. 



126 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




VIOLET CA'KE. :, 

A SIMPLX SPONGC CAKE BAKED IN* A SQUARE PAN, ICED AND DECORATED WITH CANDIED VIOLETS AND LEAVES 
CUT FROM ANGELICA. THIS WOULD BE EXTREMELY APPROPRIATE FOR A VIOLET LUNCHEON. 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Separate the whites and yolks of three eggs. Beat the' whites to a stiff 
froth, add the yolks and beat again for a minute and a half. Gradually beat 
in one cupful of sugar; when all is in, beat steadily for five minutes longer. 
Add the grated rind of one large lemon and one cupful of thick sweet cream 
and beat for another five minutes. Stir in lightly one cupful and a half of 
sifted pastry flour which is thoroughly mixed with a pinch of salt and two 
scant teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Divide between two shallow pans lined 
with buttered paper and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

GELATINE ICING. 

Soak one teaspoonful of granulated gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of 
water. When soft set over hot water until dissolved, flavor and add one cup- 
ful of powdered sugar, beating well. This icing does not crumble when cut. 



CAKES 



127 




VIOLET CAKES. 

BAKE A WHITE BATTER IN SMALL CUPS, AND WHEN COLD DIP INTO WHITE BOILED ICING FLAVORED WITH 
VIOLET. WHILE YET MOIST DECORATE WITH CRYSTALLIZED VIOLETS, STEMS OF DARK GREEN CITRON AND MINT 
LEAVES. AT THE BASE OF EACH PLACE A ROW OF VIOI^T FONDANT PRESSED THROUGH A STAR TUBE; OR 
SMALL VIOLET CANDIES MAY BE USED. 



CHOCOLATE TEA CAKES. 

Cream well together two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter and one scant 
cupful of fine granulated sugar. Grate or cut fine one square of unsweetened 
chocolate, melt over hot water and add to the creamed mixture. Drop in, one 
at a time, three unbeaten eggs, beating very hard after each is added. Mix to- 
gether, then sift one-half of a cupful each of pastry flour and corn starch, one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful and a half of baking pow- 
der. Add this to the batter alternately with one-half of a cupful of milk. Last- 
ly, add a scant teaspoonful of vanilla, fill muffin pans two-thirds full, sprinkle 
some chopped nuts on the top of each and bake in a quick oven. 



128 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




CHERRY CAKE — description on opposite pagb. 




A WISH BONE OR MERRY THOUGHT CAKE—descwptiom on opposite page. 



CAKES 



129 



CHERRY CAKE. 

A cake iced and garnished with cherries is very striking. A pound cake 
makes a handsome loaf, though any plain or layer recipe may be used. When 
cold it is iced with boiled or royal icing, and when this is firm any fancy design 
may be laid on it with red icing, adding here and there a candied cherry and 
garnishing with artificial cherry leaves. 

WISH BONE CAKE. 

A pretty cake may be prepared by ornamenting any kind of rich loaf cake 
with red and white icing, arranging gilded wish bones on top and on the sides, 
and a wreath of holly or leaves around the base. 




MUSICAL BARS. 

BAXX CAKX BATTXB IN A SHBXT AND WHEN COLO CUT INTO THRXX-INCH INCB OBLONGS. ICB WTTR 
WHITB. WBBN FIBM TBACX WITH MELTED CHOCOLATE THB BABS AND CLEF, USING CHOCOLATE-COATED 
rBLLBTS FOB THS NOTES; A SMALL, CLBAN WATBR COLOB BBU8B WILL BB FOUND JUST THB THING TO FLACX 
THB CHOCOLATE. 



130 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




sa*d 

M •-• U 

S S M H 






"8' 



)j O H •< 

« I- S w 

o 2 {J 

« f^. M "J 

Q u n < 

o >; M 2 

as u 5 

ft < -^ 



E5 

S < Bk 2 M 






S 1^ u ii: 
,, o o *^ o 

en u) "^ < 
A< 0« o 

>.2o|j 

H M S U 

n H ui 



< 

U 
> 

< 

OS 

< C S y g 

« 2; S5 2 

mi 
►J .^ "J 

= S-8 

< O H M 

-as 

h D U 
O O U 



r 



CAKES 



131 




AMERICAN CHRIST>i:AS CAKE. 

A ROUND LOAF OF SPONGE CAKE IS COVERED WITH SOILED OR ROYAL ICING; WHILE STILL SOFT IT IS 
ORNAMENTED WITH A STAR OF TINY SCARLET CANDIES KNOWN AS "sUGAR PLUMS." SCARLET CANDLES SET 
IN SUGAR ROSES ARE Pl-ACED ON TOP, AND THE SIDES OF THE CAKE ARK ORNAMENTED WITH CITRON AND 
uANDIES. WHEN ON THE SERVING PLATE, PLACE ROUND IT A WREATH OF HOLLY. 



BOILED SPONGE CAKE. 

Put one scant cupful of granulated sugar in a clean saucepan, add one- 
third of a cupful of boiling water and stir over the fire until the sugar is dis- 
solved, then boil slowly without stirring until, when a spoonful is lifted and 
poured back the last drops will leave a fine, hair-like thread hanging from the 
spoon. The time required to reach this condition — known to confectioners as 
*'the fine thread" or **hair" — cannot be accurately stated, as it will vary with the 
depth of the syrup in the saucepan, the rapidity of the boiling and general at- 
mospheric conditions. Pour slowly over the well beaten yolks of four eggs and 



132 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



beat until the mixture is cold, when it should be the consistence of a drop batter 
and very light and spong>^ Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth 
and sift twice five ounces of pastry flour. To the egg yolk mixture add the 
grated rind and one-half of the strained juice of a lemon, then cut in lightly a 
part of the well beaten whites. Carefully stir in the flour, then cut in the 
remainder of the whites. Have ready a shallow pan lined with paper ; pour in 
the batter and bake in a moderate oven. If in a sheet two inches thick about 
half an hour will be required. This gives a cake which will keep moist for a 
number of days. 




CAKE DECORATED WITH HEARTS. 

USE FOR THE CAKE PART A SUKSHtNE OR PLAIN CUP CAKE RECIFE, COVERING IT WHEN ALMOST COLO 
WITH A THICK FONDANT FROSTING, AND SMOOTHING IT WITH A WIDB-BLADBO KNIFE DIPPED IN ICE WATER; 
ALLOW THIS TO BBCOMX THOROUGHLY FIKM AND HAED AND DECORATE WITH THE SAME ICING (tO WHICH 
A FEW DROPS OF COCHINEAL HAVS BEEN ADDED) IN THE FORM OF SMALL HEARTS. 



CAKES 



133 




VALENTINE CAKE. 
roR children's parties a loaf cake iced in white and decorated with cherry hearts and small 

DARTS OF silver, OR THE METAL USED FOR THESE, WILL PROVE AN ATTRACTIVE FEATURE. 

LOAF NUT CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, four 
eggs, three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of milk, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt, one and one-half cupfuls of hickory nut meats, and two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and cream again. Separate the eggs, beat 
the yolks, add to the creamed butter and sugar and beat hard. Add a little 
sifted flour, then the vanilla, then alternate the remainder of the flour and the 
milk. Add salt and baking powder, the whites whipped to a stiff froth and the 
nut meats and beat steadily for three minutes. Line the loaf pan with one or 
two thlckResses of paper. Turn in the batter, which should two-thirds fill the 
pan. Dust slightly wath powdered sugar and bake in a moderate oven. If the 
loaf is four or five inches thick when done it will require nearly an hour for 
baking. As flours vary in their capacity to absorb liquids add the last spoonful 
or two of milk with c^iWtion ; the batter should be quite thick or the nut meats 
will sink. 



134 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




A WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY CAKK. 

A SMAT.T. ARTIFICTAL CHFRRY TRF.E IS PLACED ON TOP OF A CAKE ICED A PALE GREEN. A FEW CHERRIES 
AkK ARRANGED SYMMETRICALLY AT THE BASK OP THE TREE. THE SIDES OF THE CAKE ARE DECORATED WITH 
VERY SMALL CLEAR RED CANDY HATCHETS. CLUSTERS OF ARTIFICIAL CHERRIES WITH LEAVES GARNISH THE 
PLATTER. A SMALL GEORGK WASHINGTON HATCHET IS READY FOR USE. 



NUT TARTLETS. 

C ream tliorouf^^lily together one-lialf a cupful of butter and one cupful and 
a half of sifted powdered sugar. Beat in gradually the yolks of three eggs, add 
a pinch of salt, then alternate one cupful of milk with three cupfuls of flour, 
licat hard, add the stiftly whipped whites of the eggs, one teaspoonful of vandla 
and two tcaspoonfuls of baking powder. Pour into a shallow greased pan of 
such size that the batter will be a little less than an inch deep. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Turn out carefully on a wire cake cooler. When cold cut into 
small circles, using a straight-sided cutter. In a saucepan melt one cupful of 
granulated sugar in one-half a cupful of boiling water, then boil slowly without 
stirring until a little of the syrup, when dropped into cold water, can be rolled 
in a soft ball between the fingers. Let stand untouched until lukewarm, then 



CAKES 



135 



stir. The syrup will slowly cloud and thicken until it becomes white and stiff. 
Take quickly in the hands and work and knead until it is soft and pliable. Melt 
a portion of this fondant over hot water, stirring and adding any color and 
flavor desired ; a few drops of water may also be added. Dip each cake in the 
fondant, so as to give a thin coating on top and sides. As quickly as dipped 
sprinkle over the top of each a small spoonful of finely chopped nuts and press 
one perfect nut in the centre. By flavoring separate portions of the fondant 
with vanilla, rose, chocolate and pistache and using appropriate colorings sev- 
eral kinds of fancy cakes may be made with one baking of cake. 




WASHINGTON S BIRTHDAY CAKES. 

BAKE ANV CAKE IflXTURE IN CUPS AND WHEN COOL DIP INTO BUFP COLORED, VIOLET AND WHITE ICING. 
ON THE BUFF COLORED ONES PLACE A CRY<(TALLIZBD VIOLET AND TWO MINT LEAVES. ON THE VIOLET COLORED 
ICING TRACE WITH BUFF A LETTER *'w." ON THE WHITE PLACE A SPRAY OF CANDIED CHERRIES AND CITRON 
STEMS AND FOLIAGE. THE BUFF AND BL1TB ARE THE COLONIAL COLORS. 

TRANSPARENT ICING. 

One cupful of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of water, one teaspoonful of 
butter and one half of tx teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil together for five minutes 
and use at once. 



136 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




ORANGE LAYER CAKE. 

CASK ICSO WITH YVLLOW; TINY CANDY SGGS ARK PLACXD IN LITTLE NKSTS MADE WITH PASTBY BAG ANI> 
ROSE END TUBE. SET VRESH OR CRYSTALLIZED STRAWBERRIES BETWEEN THE NESTS. 

ORANGE LAYER CAKE. 

Cream together two-thirds of a cupful of butter and two cupfuls of sugar, 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs. Grate the rind and scoop out pulp and juice 
from two oranges, adding sufficient water to make one cupful. Add this to the 
butter and eggs, alternating with three cupfuls and a half of sifted flour. Lastly, 
add the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, one-third of a teaspoonful of salt 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in three layers. For a filling, 
beat one egg until very light and thick. Add the grated rind and one-half the 
strained juice of an orange with a tiny pinch of salt and sufficient powdered 
sugar to make very thick. Or, if a cooked filling is desired, scald one cupful 
of milk in a double boiler. Beat together two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
tablespoonful and a half of com starch and three egg yolks until light, turn into 
the hot milk and stir until it thickens. Add a pinch of salt, cover and cook for 
five minutes, then take from fire and add the grated rind of an orange and two 
tablespoonfuls of the juice. 



CAKES 



137 




FOURTH OF JULY CAKE. 



A LOAP CAKB ICED WITH WHITE AND DECORATED WITH STRAWBBRBY AMD VIOLET ICING; A SMALL BUNCH OF 
DEEP COLORED PORGET-ME-NOTS IS ARRANGED IN THE CENTER. 



SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Measure one even cupful of pastry flour ; add to it one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, and sift three times. Separate the whites and yolks of eleven eggs ; 
put aside eight of the yolks for some other dish, and beat the three remaining 
until very thick and light. Whip all the whites to a stiff, dry froth. Pour over 
them the three beaten yolks, mixing with as few strokes as possible. Add 
carefully one cupful and a half of very fine granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, or any desired flavoring, and the flour. Turn into an ungreased pan 
and bake for about forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. When done, turn it 
carefully upside down on blocks, or some supports which will raise the pan an 
inch from the table. When cold the cake will fall from the pan of itself. If 
possible, use a Turk's head pan, which has a central tube. 



138 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 



CAKE FOR SILVER WEDDING. 



For a silver wedding anniversary we show a decoration for a large cake 
which is within the compass of any amateur. Make and bake a loaf of cake, 
using any recipe for lady cake or any kind rich in butter and containing only the 




CAKE FOR SIFA'ER WEDDTNC. 



whites of the eggs. Let stand for twenty-four hours and dust lightly with 
flour, brushing off any excess ; this is to absorb grease and make the icing ad- 
here better. Sift one pound of confectioners' sugar. Beat the whites of four 
eggs just enough to break the stringiness, add two tablespoonftils of the sugar 
and beat slowly but steadily for five minutes. Add two more spoQpf^)§ of sugar 



CAKES 



139 



and beat as before. Continue to add the sugar at intervals with, a few drops at 
a time, one tablespoonful of lemon juice. When a knife will make a clean cut 
in the icing it is ready for use. All of the sugar may not be needed unless the 
whites are large, but thorough beating is very essential or the icing will not 
adhere properly when spread. Cover the top and sides of the cake with a thin 
coating, smoothing it with a silver knife, then let stand until firm.' Now add a 
second coat, putting it on thickly and roughly. Have ready some four-petaled 
flowers and four-leaved clovers cut from silver paper, as v%^ell as a few green 
artificial clover leaves, and arrange in a wreath on top of the cake and another 
heavier wreath round the base. 




AUTOMOBILITES. 

CUT A FRIED CAKE UIXTUIB IN SMALL ROUND DISKS, THEN DROP INTO HOT FAT AND FRY A DELICATE 
BROWN. DRAIN ON PAPER AND WHEN COOL ROLL IN BOILED COCOA ICING, FORMING THE FEATURES WITH 
SMALL CANDIES. TOP WITH TINY AUTOMOBILE CAPS AND SERVE AT CHILDREN'S PARTY. BY USING RED 
CANDIES FOR THE LIPS AND NOSTRILS, AND VIOLET, PINK, GREEN AND YELLOW FOR THE BYB8 A COMICAU 
EXPRESSION IS SSCURXD. 



I40 TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




"SHIPS AT SEA." 

FOR A child's party A SHEET OF SPONGE CAKS IS CUT INTO SMALL OBLONGS; THEN ROUGHLY ICBD WITH 
PISTACHIO ICING. A TINY RIGGED BOAT IS PLACED ON TOP OP EACH, AND THE NAME OP BACH GUEST COULD 
BE WRITTEN IN GOLD PAINT ON THE SAIL. 

FANCY CAKES FOR CHILDREN'S PARTY. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

Fill the cake pan one-third full with a well-made white or silver cake batter, 
then fill the two-thirds with the same batter colored pink with fruit coloring, 
putting in near the top currants which have been washed and dried. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Ice when done with white icing clouded and streaked with 
spinach green. Flavor with vanilla. Make the pink batter rather deep in 
color, like ripe, red-meated watermelon. When sliced this cake shows the 
white edge, red meat and seed of watermelon. 

Currants may be washed, dried and dredged with pulverized sugar before 
going into the batter. This makes a very nice, fancy cake for any social func- 
tion where appearances ^re of as much consideration as palatable qualities. 



CAKES 



141 



DOVER CAKE. 

Cream thoroughly together one-quarter of a cupful of butter and one-half 
of a cupful of sugar, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and beat again, then 
one-half of a teaspoonful of rose-water, one teaspoonful of vanilla and one drop 
of almond extract. Add alternately one cupful of flour and three tablespoon- 
fuls of milk and beat well. Stir in the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, a 
pinch of salt and one scant teaspoonful of baking powder, beat well for a 
moment, turn into a buttered loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven. 




RABBIT CAKES. 

FOR A CRILOKZN's rARTY. CHOCOLATE COOKIES ARE CUT OBLONG. ON THE ICED ONES PUT A RABBIT CUT 
FROM CITRON OR OUTLINE WITH CHOCOLATE XCINC; ON THE UN-ICEO ONES PLACE RABBITS FORMED OF 
FONDANT OR ICING. 



142 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




CAKE ROSETTES. 

PRETTY FANCY CAKES FOR AFTERNOON TEAS ARE IfAOE BY ^LICING POUND CAKE, CUTTING IT INTO 
CIRCLES OR ROSETTES, SPREADING WITH MARMALADE, THEN WITH MERINGUE, WHICH IS DUSTED WITII 
POWDERED SUGAR AND CRUSTED IN A SLOW OVEN. WHEN ARRANGED ON A PLATE, THESE ARE GARNISHED 
WITH LEAVES. " 



ORANGE FLIP CAKE. 

Make a sponge cake, flavoring with orange, using any recipe preferred and 
baking in a round loaf. When cold cut out the centre, leaving bottom and sides 
fully an inch and a half thick. Prepare a fondant icing by boiling together one 
cupful of sugar and one-half of a cupful of water to the soft ball degree, setting 
aside until partly cooled, then stirring until very thick, when it must be well 
worked with the hands until soft and creamy. Place this in a bowl with the 
grated rind of an orange or a teaspoonful of orange extract and a little yellow 



CAKES 



143 



color paste. Stir and mash over hot water until soft and creamy, then coat the 
sides and top rim of the cake and put aside until quite firm. In the meantime 
put into a saucepan the strained juice of one lemon and two large juicy oranges, 
the grated rind of one orange, one cupful of sugar, four whole eggs and four 
yolks beatefi together, one cupful of white wine and one-half of a cupful of 
water in which is smoothly mixed two scant teaspoonfuls of corn starch. Stir 
this over hot water; as it heats use a flat wire beater and whisk without stopping 
until the mixture is light and sufficiently thickened to cling to the wires of the 
beater. Now add the whites of three eggs whipped to a stiff froth, beat over the 
fire for two minutes more, then set aside for five or ten minutes. Fill the pre- 
pared cake with this cream, shaping it up to a pqint. When cold decorate with 
orange carpels dipped into a little of the melted fondant. 




DEMONSTRATION. 

TWO NEW CAKE FORMS ARE ON THE MARKET. ORANGE SLICES AND GOLDEN ROD PANS. THE FORMER 
CAKES ARE COVERED AFTER BAKING WITH OIANCB FLAVORSO XCZNC. THE GOLDEN ROD CAKES ARE ICED IN 
WHITE AND DECORATED WITH FANCY CANDIES AND CITRON. 



144 



TABLE TALK'S ILLUSTRATED COOK BOOK 




DEMONSTRATION— MERINGUES AND WHIPPED CREAM. 



PASTRY BAGS AND TUBES. 

The housekeeper who knows how to manipulate a pastry bag and tube 
can serve many attractive cakes and desserts. The ordinary pastry tube is of 
tin and comes in a number of sizes from one-quarter of an inch to more than an 
inch in diameter, and with a plain or serrated edge, the latter being known as a 
rose-end tube. Confectioners' tubes are much smaller and can be had in a 
variety of fancy shapes. Bags with which to use these tubes are made of rub- 
ber cloth, duck or ordinary heavy muslin. For all home use they can be made 
of closely woven heavy muslin, one yard making four. Cut the material into 
squares and from each piece make a three-cornered bag or cornucopia, felling 
the long seam, rounding off and hemming the top. From the pointed end cut 
off a piece sufficient to allow the tube, when dropped into the bag, to protrude 
about half of its length. For use, the meringue or other mixture is dropped 
into the bag and pressed downward toward the point. Careful study of our 
illustration will show how the bag is held, downward pressure being made from 
above with one hand, while the other directs the end of the tube in order to fol- 
low out the design. 



cJ^^. 




