;ir 






^*j>. II II ji>jwi!ji>.iijijiirritrr» — rrfrr 



.i^Bi5S)SiJ»K3SSSiii' 





I 



/ 



^.; 




■t^^ 



4W 



mrnmrnmsmBtBt 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 



James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 






a! 






i 




Cornell University Library 
TX 715.M925 

Louis' salads & chafing dishes, 



3 1924 000 683 692 



m 



M 




mmmmimsmmi'<»j>ri'i:-'''~>ii.<»,^??emm'ma^ 



r 



I. !ii,^iB,s,'Bij,'t^aii 




1 1 









1^ 



LOUIS' SALADS (®, 
CHAFING DISHES 






^^^=^-^ 



f= 



'Si 






il 
( 






m 



'j:2if^xtio;mei»ii^ 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000683692 



w 



rv:^ 











/5M56^<^ 



^ '^^^<:^<^V^^<5:2^^2^^^^-**Z^ 



1 












S 




m 




Salads S>zj 
CKafin^ Diskes 



4> 



QuxsyfGixchznsiavm 




H' M' Caldwell Co^ 

Boston, ii^^':^. New York 



m 



ii 



r* 



it 



Copyrigkty igo6 
By H. M. Caldwell Co. 



Published simultaneously in ike United Stales , Great 
Britain^ Canada, and British Possessions 



s$n 



COLONIAL PRESS 
Eteeiroiyptd and Printed by C. H. Simonds &* Co* 
Boston, U. S.A. 



m 






SI 

.a 



^^—^--^-^ 



msimiemjt!*f(hHt».i*^s.---' 



,.,^.ri-.., •,?n>iiT n a i wai 



i 



• «*i'wftaMwwTO«jq»««»> ■M-F'-R,h>.»»*.-4ji«n*awca«( 





LOUIS' SALADS CS, 
CHAFING DISHES 

CANAPEES 

Each receipt is for four people unlets otherwise noted 

CANAPE A LA RUSSE <5S 

To the contents of a small can of caviar, add one-half of 
a veiy small onion chopped fine, mix well, and add the 
juice of a lemon. Spread this over toast well buttered, 
which may be cut in any fancy shape desired. Chop to- 
gether a hard-boiled egg and a little chives or parsley, 
and garnish the edges of the toast with it. Serve cold. 

CANAPE CAREME <^ 

Take half a lobster, and chop very fine with four small 
sweet pickles. Season with salt, pepper and tarragon 
vinegar. Let stand for five minutes, then squeeze out 
the juice, add two table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise dress- 
ing, tniT well, and spread over toast or small saltine 
crackers. This may also be used for sandwich filling by 
adding some crisp lettuce leaves. 

CANAPE DEMID0FF45S 

Take a box of sardines and three ounces of fresh butter, 
and strain through a fine wire sieve. Mix thoroughly 
with a whip or spoon, gradually adding four table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream, until a thick paste is formed. 
Spread the paste over toast cut in any fancy shape de- 
sired, and garnish the edges with chopped olives or 

fillets of anchovies. 

II 



^ 



w 



attitaxmitiiiisi&.^'i.'..- 



■v 



i 



LOUIS* SALADS 

CANAPE MODERITE ^ 

Prepare some caviar as in Canape a la Russe and spread 
over toast. Split two anchovies lengthwise and place 
them crisscross on the toast in such a manner as to 
leave four spaces. Take a hard-boiled egg, and chop the 
yolk and white separate. Chop finely a table-spoonful 
of pecan nuts, also the meat of half a dozen olives. 
Place each of these four separately in the spaces made 
by the anchovies, and serve cold. 



CANAPE NORWEGIAN <^ 

Take three-quarters of a pound of the thick part of fin- 
nan-haddock, boil for ten minutes, and let cool in cold 
water. Strain off the water, and chop fine, adding one- 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter until a thick paste is 
formed. Add two teaspoonfuls of anchovy butter, season 
to taste, and spread, over saltine crackers or fancy 
trimmed toast. Fillets of anchovies laid on top will im- 
prove it. 



CANAPE A LA REINE ^ 

Take the white meat of chicken, and a couple of sticks 
of celery. Chop them together fine, and season with 
salt, pepper and vinegar. Let this stand awhile, then 
squeeze dry, and add two table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise 
dressing, and mix well. Serve on toast. This can also 
be used to stuff rolls, and with thin slices of ham, makes 
delicious sandwiches. 



BATONS DE SARDINE 4S5 

Take some puff-paste about an eighth of an inch thick 
and cut in strips three inches long, and an inch broad. 
Bake in a medium oven tmtil brown and crisp. When 
cool spread on the strips some sardine paste as de- 
scribed in Canape Demidoff. Clean some sardines, and 
cut in small strips and lay them over the Canape and 
serve with a piece of lemon. 



m 



larsw^cwi'-wwt!- ;«'5,- 




(8h CHAFING DISHES 

CANAPE A L'mDIENNE ^5£ 

Take four hard-boiled eggs and mash them through a 
sieve, add one-quarter of a pound of fresh butter and a 
pinch of cuny and miz well until a thick paste is formed. 
After seasoning to taste, spread over toast. Take three 
tablespoonfuls of chutney from which the Uquid has 
been drained and chop fine. Put a teaspoonful of this in 
the centre of the Canape just before serving. 

CANAPE A L'ALLEMANDE <s 
Take a box of sardines and three ounces of fresh butter, 
and strain through a fine wire sieve, miy thoroughly 
with a whip or spoon, gradually adding four table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream imtil a thick paste is formed. 
Spread the paste over toast, and then take some very 
thin slices of smoked salmon and lay on top. Serve 
with pieces of lemon. 

CANAPE NANTAISE ^S£ 
Take half a lobster and chop very fine with four small 
sweet pickles. Season with salt, pepper and tarragon 
vinegar. Let stand for five minutes, then squeeze out 
the juice, add two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dress- 
ing, mix well and spread on toast. Take the fillets of 
a pickled herring and cut in very thin slices, and decorate 
the Canape with them. 

CANAPE VIRGINIA ^ 
Take the white meat of a chicken and a couple of sticks 
of celery, chop them together fine and season with salt, 
pepper and vinegar. Let this stand awhile, then squeeze 
dry and add two table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing 
and miz well. Over some buttered toast lay some very 
thin slices of raw Virginia ham. On top of this spread the 
chicken, and sprinkle chopped chives over the whole. 

CANAPE BELMONT ^^ 
Take the white meat of chicken and a couple of sticks 
of celery, chop them together fine and season with salt, 





LOUIS* SALADS 



i| pepper and vinegar. Let this stand awhile, then squeeze 
dry and add two table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing 
and mix well. Take two fresh tomatoes and slice in 
pieces about an eighth of an inch thick, and trim some 
toast to the same size. Lay the tomatoes on top of this, 
and then spread the chicken over. Decorate with stuffed 
olives placed in the centre. 



CANAPE WHITNEY^ 

Take two onions sliced in small pieces and two sliced 
green peppers. Fry them in about two ounces of butter 
until the onions become a nice brown, add two teaspoon- 
fuls of curry and let it cook on a brisk fire for half a 
minute. Add two table-spoonfuls of fiour and then re- 
move to the side of the stove and cook slowly for about 
three minutes. Pour in slowly one gill of broth, stirring 
well. Add three or four fresh tomatoes which have been 
peeled and let the whole cook for about ten minutes. 
When cool add two table-spoonfuls of chopped chutney. 
Take some bread about a quarter of an inch thick, re- 
move the crust and toast on one side. Spread the prep- 
aration on the toasted side of the bread and sprinkle 
some grated Parmesan cheese on the top. Place in 
buttered dishes or shells. Bake until brown and serve 
hot. 

CANAPE SUEDOISE<^ 

Take half a finnan-haddock and boil for ten or twelve 
minutes. Cool in cold water and remove the meat from 
the bones. Take two finely chopped onions and fry in 
about two ounces of butter. Add two table-spoonfuls of 
flour and cook slowly for three or four minutes. Pour 
in one-half a pint of boiling milk, stirring well, and cook 
slowly for about ten minutes. Add the finnan-haddock 
meat to this. Half a dozen sliced fresh mushrooms 
fried in butter can be added and will be found a great im- 
provement. When cool take some bread about a quarter 
of an inch thick, and remove the crust and toast on one 
side. Spread the preparation on the toasted side of the 



e 



14 



m 




®» CHAFING DISHES 

bread and sprinkle some Parmesan cheese on the tpp. 
Place on buttered gratin dishes or shells. Bake until 
brown and serve hot. 

CANAPE BALTIMORE 4^ 

Take some slices of bread about one-quarter of an inch 
thick, trim to a half-moon shape and toast on one side. 
Take two shallot onions, chop fine, and fry in about one 
and one-half ounces of butter, add two table-spoonfuls of 
flour and stir while cooking with a wooden spoon. Take 
from the fire and add one gill of hot boiling milk. Then 
let the whole cook slowly for about ten minutes, stirring 
only once in awhile. Put the contents of a can of crab 
meat into a saucepan, add two table-spoonfuls of sherry 
and let simmer until the liquid disappears. Mix this 
crab meat with the above and when cool spread on the 
toast to a height of one inch, making a dome-like effect. 
Take some grated cheese, half Swiss and half Parmesan, 
and sprinkle on top. Place in a buttered gratin dish and 
pour a very little melted butter over the whole and bake 
in a hot oven tmtil golden brown. Serve hot. 



m 



ta^— — M— I I ■ — ■ 





<vmm<m)fm'i*i»3\fri'-y 



H h 



n 






I 



wfr — 




i 



m 



M»m»»f^'rz!K.-rr.-i:i--' y.!£if«e^fAa*«as« 



^ma^emmmsmm^miam 










m 



BtumtfSnmt^viiW't r 




II 



m 



tae^'pi^rf^ ^it i^»h '.'. 




M 



HORS D'OEUVRES 

Each receipt is for three people unless otherwise noted 

STUFFED CELERY ^ss 
Take some celeiy stalks, one head for each person, clean 
and peel. Cut in four pieces lengthwise so that the pieces 
■will hang together at the root. Mix together one tea- 
spoonful of Roquefort and two teaspoonfuls of 
cream cheese, season with paprika, and add a pinch of 
finely cut chives. Stir until a smooth paste is formed and 
then put in a paper comet. Take the celery and lift leaf 
by leaf and squeese the cheese between the celery stalks. 
Serve on chopped ice covered with a napkin. 

ANCHOVIES MELBA ^s^ 
Take two hard-boiled eggs, which have been chopped 
fine, and mix with a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and chives. Season with French dressing, not 
too oily, and spread the whole on a small dish. Re- 
move the stones from twelve olives, wrap half an an- 
chovy around each olive. Place on the chopped eggs and 
garnish with finely chopped red beets and thin slices of 
pickles. 

THON MARINE AND LETTUCE ^5S 
Take the contents of a small can of ttumy fish and break 
in small pieces. Take a hard-boiled egg which has been 
chopped fine, three chopped pickles and a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley and mix well with the 
fish. Take some lettuce leaves and put about two table- 
spoonfuls of this in each lettuce leaf. Level this off 
smoothly and add a small teaspoonful of stiff mayonnaise 
on the top. Serve on small plates or saucers. 

DEVILLED SARDINES ON TOAST 4& 
Take six large sardines and scrape off the skin and put in 
a pie-plate. Take one teaspoonful of English mustard 




Vll^it»-^^mS^'»i'J)llM»* 



LOUIS* SALADS 

with two table-spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, add 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, and cover the sardines with 
this. Bake m a hot oven for about three minutes. Have 
three pieces of toast about one and one-half inches 
broad by three long, well buttered and hot, and put two 
sardines on each and serve with a piece of lemon. 



m 



20 



»f» »iid 8 HM » na sa 




r . ii w piifr.r^-iffiniiirmiriwwrrTn i T n t n t rn innin'itiiiK ^ 




C^affns M^T^t^ 



! i 



i 



m 



M 



w 




HOW TO USE THE CHAFING DISH 

A chafing dish ought to be of extra heavy tin or some 
other metal tinned or nickel-plated. A large-flame | 
alcohol-lamp should be underneath so as to have a good 
heat if needed, or a smaller lamp only to be used if light 
heat is required. In cooking oysters or similar articles 
a brisk heat is necessary, for making rarebits less fire is 
used. The blazer vrith the water-pan tmdemeath is 
more for the purpose of heating ready-made things or 
keeping them hot, and only good for preparing articles 
which require little cooking. 



23 



» IB 



B w^" 







■sdc. .^..-i': i.M>asiiKiiaa»M 



m 



a! 




OYSTERS A LA POULETTE ^S 
Take two cups of oysters and boil in their own liquid 
for about five minutes. Dilute a heaping teaspoonful 

2S 



CHAFING DISHES 

Saeh receipt la for two people unleta otherwise noted 
SHELL FISH 
OYSTER STEW ^& 
To a cup of oysters, stewed in their own liquid, add half 
a cupful of hot milk. If the stew is wanted extra rich, 
substitute some cream for part of the milk. Add a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, and season to taste with 
salt and pepper. Serve with oysterettes. 

OYSTER STEW, PHILADELPHIA STYLE ^ 

To a cup of oysters stewed in their own liquid add half f 

a cupful of hot cream. Add a piece of butter the size of I 

a walnut, two tablespoonfuls of sherry, season with salt | 

and pepper. I 



PANNED OYSTERS 4S 
Take two cups of oysters and cook in their own liquid. 
When cooked remove the oysters and let the liquid boil 
down to one-third of its former amotmt, add the juice 
of half a lemon, a heaping table-spoonful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, season well, return 
oysters to liquid. Heat well and serve. 

OYSTERS A LA SOMERSET ^£ 
Put in chafing dish a piece of butter size of an egg, add a 
heaping teaspoonful of finely chopped onion, fry to a 
light yellow colour, add three heaping table-spoonfuls of 
finely chopped celery, and two cups of oysters in their 
own liquid, boil till done, season to taste, then add three 
heaping table-spoonfuls of fresh bread crumbs, half a 
gill of cream, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Let come to a boil, and serve. Enough for four. 






'J. 







5 



m 



LOUIS' SALADS 

corn-starch with a gill of white wine, stir into the oysters 
while boiling, and add yolks of two eggs slightly beaten 
in one-half a giQ of cream and the juice of half a lemon. 
Then add two heaping dessert-spoonftils of butter, stir 
slowly for a minute or two. Do not let come to a boil. 
Serve. Sliced caimed mushrooms can be added if de- 
sired. Enough for four. 

OYSTERS A LA NEUBURG^S* 
Take two cups of oysters, and boil in their own liquid 
till done. Drain off two-thirds of the liquid and replace 
with same amount of good cream. When boiling add 
yoUfs of three eggs to which has been added a table- 
spoonful of cream, juice of one-half lemon, and heaping 
table-spoonful of good butter. Stir till it thickens, add 
two table-spoonfuls of sherry and one of brandy. Serve 
immediately. Enough for four. 

CLAMS A LA CREOLE 4S 

Put in a chafing dish a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
When melted add one-half a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped onion, one heaping table-spoonful of green 
peppers cut in very small cubes, fry till done. Add two 
dozen little neck clams with their own juice, mix a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour with a piece of butter size of 
walnut, stir in while boiling, add juice of one-half a 
lemon, and a heaping teaspoonful of sweet Spanish pepper 
cut in small cubes. At last add a little milk. 



CLAMS A LA POULETTE ^ 

Take four dozen little neck clams and boil in their own 
liquid for about five minutes. Dilute a heaping tea- 
spoonful of corn-starch in a gill of white wine, stir into 
the clams while boiling, and add the yolks of two eggs 
slightly beaten, half a gill of cream, and the juice of half 
a lemon. Then add two heaping dessert-spoonfuls of 
butter, stir slightly for a minute or two. Do not let come 
to a boil. Enough for four. 



I 




MbiKimici^t^&'AiJA'ft'^.ity 




<lk CHAFING DISHES 

PANNED CLAIJS^^ 
Take two dozen little neck clams and cook in their own 
liquid. When done add the juice of half a lemon, and a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Season well and serve. 

OYSTER CRABS ASTORIA ^S 

Two chafing dishes required. 
Cook two dozen little neck clams in their liquid with 
a pinch of finely chopped shallot onion in one chafing 
1 1 dish. In the other heat a piece of butter size of a walnut, 

add one-half a pint of oyster crabs well drained and 
picked clear of all oyster shells, cook four or five minutes, 
add the cooked clams with their liquid, add one gill 
|i I thick cream, and the yolks of two eggs mixed with a 
II I table-spoonful of cream. Stir till it thickens. At last 
1 1 add two table-spoonfuls of sherry. Season to taste. 
1 1 I Enough for four people. 

> OYSTER CRABS AND SWEETBREAD A LA GOUR- 
MET <5S 
Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, add two medium- 
sized fresh mushrooms, cut in cubes, and a parboiled 
sweetbread cut in very small thin slices. Fry together 
for at least ten minutes, then add half a pint of oyster 
crabs well drained, cook till oyster crabs turn to a nice 
red, add four table-spoonfuls of sherry, and one gill of 
cream. Let come to a boil, add a teaspoonful of fiour 
mixed with a piece of butter size of a walnut, stir 
the yolks of two eggs mixed with a teaspoonful 
of cream, add three table-spoonfuls of brandy. Season 
to taste. Stir for another minute and serve. 



CURRY OF LOBSTER ^^ 
Heat a piece of butter size of egg, when hot add a tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped onion, fry to a light colour. 
Add a heaping teaspoonful of flour and one of curry 
powder, stir for a minute, then moisten it with one-half 
pint of hot soup-stock and one-half a gill of cream, and 
4^ ^^ _ J 



m 





LOUIS* SALADS 

let it boil. Have a lobster cut in slices, put it in the 
sauce and let the whole simmer together for about five 
minutes. Season to taste. Serve with boiled rice 

LOBSTER IN CREAM <5S 
Heat a piece of butter size of an egg in the blazer, add a 
lobster cut in thick slices, fry a minute, sprinkle a scant 
table-spoonful of flour over it, moisten it with one-half 
pint hot milk and one-half gill cream, let simmer for 
five minutes, stirring it occasionally. Season with salt 
and red pepper. Serve with toast. 

FRIED LOBSTER IN CRUMBS ^ 
Cut a good-sized lobster in large slices, season with salt, 
pepper, and lemon juice, dip the pieces in flour, then in 
beaten egg, and lastly in bread crumbs or cracker meal. 
Heat about three ounces of butter in the blazer, add the 
lobster, frying the pieces to a nice golden colour, turning 
them occasionally. Serve with Tartar sauce. 

MINCED LOBSTER ON TOAST ^ 
Heat a piece of butter the size of an egg in the blazer, add 
a teaspoonful of finely chopped onion and two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. Fry together for two 
or three mmutes, moisten with one-half a sherry glassful 
of dry sherry, add a iinely chopped lobster, then add a 
Uttle less than one-half a pint of cream, and three table- 
spoonfuls of fresh bread crumbs. Let simmer for a few 
minutes till it thickens. Season to taste. Serve on toast. 










CHICKEN 



CREAMED CHICKEN ^55 
Cut half a boiled young fowl or chicken in cubes, put in a 
blazer with one-half a pint of cream and let come to a 
boil. Mix a heaping teaspoonful of flour with a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, stir it in the cream and let 
simmer for a few minutes. Season to taste and serve on 
toast. 

CREAMED CHICKEN WITH RICE <s 
Cut half a boiled yotmg fowl or chicken in cubes. Put 
in a blazer with one-half a pint of cream and let come 
to a boil. Mix a heaping teaspoonful of flour with a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut. Stir it in the cream 
and let simmer for a few minutes. Add a cup of fresh 
boiled rice to the sauce; stir well; season to taste and 
serve. 

CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM REGENCE ^ 
Slice three fresh mushrooms, fry them for a few minutes 
in the blazer with a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Then add a heaping teaspoonful of flour, moisten with 
one gill of chicken stock and one-half a gill of cream 
and let come to a boil. Add half a boiled young fowl cut 
in short thick slices free from skin and bones, and let 
simmer for a few minutes together. Slightly beat the 
yolk of one egg with two table-spoonfuls of cream, stir 
this liaison in the sauce and add two table-spoonfuls of 
dry sherry, stir it for another minute to thicken a little, 
season to taste and serve immediately. 

CURRY OF CHICKEN, BOMBAY STYLE <^ 
Put in the blazer a piece of butter the size of a large egg, 
add one teaspoonful of onion chopped fine, one-half a 



m 



29 




f 






•'—"■- --■ ^ 1 ^ 1 I " w i..iiWii» ii ii^ 

■HMp>:jW»»M9MnBMMaHMHIH0MaHHMnBIIHII^y a 

LOUIS' SALADS ^' 



small apple chopped fine, fry them together for a few 
minutes. Then add a table-spoonful of grated cocoanut, 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of English mustard, one 
table-spoonful or more of curry powder, a heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour. Stir all together in the blazer for two 
minutes, then moisten with one-half pint of chicken 
stock. When boiling add the meat of one-half a fowl 
torn in shreds, free from bones and skin, let simmer for 
about ten minutes. At last add three table-spoonfuls 
of thick cream. Season with salt and serve with fresh 
boiled rice and Bombay duck. Bombay duck is a dried 
fish from India sold in small tin boxes. Dry the fish in a 
moderate oven for some time so it will be crisp enough 
to break up in small bits and sprinkle it over the curry. 



Ill 



1^ 
IS 



»— ^ ' ^ 





MISCELLANEOUS 



MUSHROOMS m CREAM 4S 
Peel about one-quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms, 
cut off the stems and let them soak in water for ten 
minutes. Put them in a blazer, moisten with one-half 
a pint of cream, and add a small piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, salt and pepper. Then let boil for about fif- 
teen to twenty minutes till the mushrooms are tender. 
Dilute a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch with a little 
water, stir in the mushrooms, and let boil for another 
minute or two. Serve on toast. 

MmCED MUSHROOMS, VHIGINIA STYLE ^ 
Take two tablespoonf uls of chopped Virginia ham and fry 
in butter for three minutes. Add six good-sized fresh 
mushrooms chopped up coarsely, moisten with one gill 
of cream and let boU for eight or ten minutes. Then add 
two tablespoonfuls of fresh bread crumbs, a little 
chopped parsley, the yolk of one egg, season to taste. 
Serve on three pieces of toast and put a dropped egg on 
top of each. Cooked or raw ham may be used. 

WELSH RAREBIT 4^ 
Mix together in the chafing-dish one wine-glassful of ale, 
one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one-half tea- 
spoonful of English mustard. Then add one-half a 
pound of cheese cut fine, season with salt, black and 
cayeime pepper. When the liquid gets boiling hot 
and the cheese begins to melt stir it up vigorously with a 
spoon so it will become very smooth, let it come to a boil, 
stirring it all the time. Then pour it over some toasted 
bread, plain or buttered. Crackers can be substituted 
if no toast is on hand. If the rarebit is wanted short 
(not stringy), the yolk of an egg can be added at the last 
moment. 





LOUIS' SALADS 

GOLDEN BUCK^ 
Prepare the "Welsh Rarebit as before, pour it over three 
thick slices of toast and put a poached or dropped egg on 
top of each piece. 



YORKSHIRE BUCK <S5S 

Prepare the rarebit the same way as Golden Buck, adding 
two slices of broiled or fried bacon, one on each side of 
the poached eggs. 





3^ 



MtfiNWua>Mn»Anim-4ni 




I 







-i-V'^*i*ig'ptJWBmwil»BHI 



i^ 




I 



SAUCES 

Saeh receipt ts for aUe people unlets otherwite noted 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE <^ 
Put the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, add one-half a tea- 
spoonful of English mustard (powdered), a pinch of salt, 
a little cayenne pepper, and a few dashes of vinegar. 
Work this together with a wire whisk or wooden spoon 
for a minute or two, then add gradually one-half a pint 
of olive-oil, pouring it in very slow at the beginning; if 
the dressing gets too thick add a few more dashes of vine- 
I gar to it, but working it all the time vigorously so as 
I to obtain a thick sauce at last, finish with juice of half 
a lemon. Keep in a cool place. 

TARTAR SAUCE ^ 
Add to one-half a pint of mayonnaise dressing one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of chopped 
capers, one table-spoonful of pickles, and one-half tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped onions. 

SAUCE REMOULADE^ 
To one-half a pint of mayonnaise, add the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, one teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and one-half teaspoonful of French mustard. 

SAUCE RAVIGOTTE ^ 
Chop together well a few sprigs of parsley, watercress, 
chives, chervil, one-half a dozen leaves of cooked spinach, 
two anchovies, a few capers, a small pickle, and one 
shallot onion, then rub through a sieve and mix into 
one-half a pint or less of mayonnaise. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE <^ 
This sauce as prepared the following way is the best liked 
among Americans. Take the yolks of four eggs, one- | 



3^ 



r 



LOUIS* SALADS 

half a pound of butter, the juice of one lemon. Put the 
yolks of the eggs, lemon juice, and a small quantity of 
the butter in a saucepan, stir it on the fire until it thickens, 
then add some more butter and keep on until all the 
butter is worked in, being careful not to let it get too hot 
or it will curdle. Then add three table-spoonfuls of 
thick cream. In adding cream it improves the sauce, 
giving it a more palatable taste, especially if served with 
asparagus. This sauce can be served with all kinds of 
boiled fish, cauliflower, French artichokes, celery, etc. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE ^ 

Boil one finely chopped shallot onion with three table- 
spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar until the liquid has nearly 
disappeared. Take the yolks of four eggs, one-half a 
pound of butter, and the juice of one lemon. Put the 
yolks of the eggs, lemon juice and a small quantity of 
the butter in a saucepan. Stir it over the fire until it 
thickens, then add some more butter, and keep on the 
fire imtil all the butter is worked in, being careful not 
to let it get too hot, or it will curdle. At last add one 
table-spoonful of melted meat-eztract, a little chopped 
fresh tarragon, chopped parsley, and the juice of one-half 
a lemon. To be served with steaks, lamb chops, broiled 
sweetbread, artichokes, or even certain kinds of fish if 
rich sauce is wanted. 

SAUCE BORDELAISE ^ 

First: With two table-spoonfuls of flour put two of 
butter and one pint rich brown gravy, making some brown 
sauce. Let boil for some time, half an hour or so. 
Second: Chop three or four shallot onions very fine, 
moisten with a glass of claret (Bordeaux), and let boil 
down to one-quarter of its volume. Then strain the 
previous prepared brown sauce into it, let boil for ten 
minutes, season to taste. Add the juice of one-half a 
lemon, stir into it a piece of table butter the size of an 
egg and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. At the last 
moment add some pieces of marrow or beef, cut in cubes 

36 




37»IW«>i^«iSI)RSia 



m 



s^ 




(Sh CHAFING DISHES 

or slices previously parboiled in water. This sauce 
to be served over steaks or similar dark meats. 

Brown gravy is made with veal bones, trimmings of 
chicken, all well browned, with different vegetables like 
carrots, onions, celery and spices, and boiled for several 
hours with frequent stirrings, but for the above purpose 
to be made in a huny about two table-spoonfuls of meat- 
extract (Liebig's) boiled with a pint of water will answer 
the purpose. 

SAUCE ROBERT OR MUSTARD SAUCE 4& 

Chop three or four shallot onions very fine, moisten with 
three table-spoonfuls of good vinegar and a little white 
wine, let the whole boil down to a table-spoonful of liquid. 
Then add one gill of brown sauce previously prepared, or 
if not convenient take some brown gravy thickened with 
a little floiu: mixed with a small piece of butter; when 
boiling add a teaspoonful of French mustard, salt and 
pepper, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, stir it up 
well and serve. This sauce is mostly served with fried 
or broiled pork chops and tongues. 

SAUCE ITALIEimE<5S 
Chop fine one onion and eight caimed mushrooms, fry 
the onions to a golden colour in a piece of butter the size 
of an egg. Then add the chopped mushrooms and one 
heaping teaspoonful of flour, fry together for a few 
minutes more, then moisten with a glass of white wine 
and one-half a pint of gravy, add a teaspoonful of meat- 
extract and three table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce or 
ketchup. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes, add the juice of 
one-half a lemon, season with salt and pepper, then add a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley before serving. This 
sauce can be served with steaks or chops and also fish 
*' au gratin." 



m 



37 



!aiMiim^iiM~''^iM»*tetaafm>i 







i 



RELISHES 

HORSERADISH ^ 

Take the root of a horse-radish, wash well, and scrape 
the outside until it gets clean and white. Then scrape the 
whole root in a soup-plate, and mix with it two soup- 
spoonfuls of bouillon or clear consomme, salt and pepper 
to taste. 

To reduce its strength mis some plain white radishes 
with it and sweeten with a little sugar. In time horse- 
radish will lose its colour and turn dark; by adding a 
little cream it will come back to its natural state. 

VEGETABLE RELISH <S 

Scald and peel one peck of ripe tomatoes, then add six 
green chopped peppers, six chopped onions, two tea- 
spoonfuls of allspice, two teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, three cups of white vine- 
gar, two cups of granulated sugar, one dash of cayenne 
pepper, and boil slowly from three to four hours. Seal 
tightly in jars. Will keep for ever if properly corked. 
Enough to last for a long while. 

CHOW - CHOW ^ 

Take one-quarter peck green tomatoes, one good-sized 
cauliflower, two pints of pickles, one pint of small onions, 
one bunch of celery stalks. Cut all in same sized pieces, 
and soak in salt water over night. Then drain and cook 
twenty minutes in one-half a gallon of white vinegar to 
which has been added one otmce of tameric powder, one- 
quarter of a pound of mustard, one teaspoonful of curry 
powder, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Put in jars 
and cork well. 

HOME - MADE FRENCH MUSTARD 4& 

Take three table-spoonfuls of mustard, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and mix thoroughly together. Beat 



41 



imm^&a^miims^is^^',^':-} 




w 

r 



•• •iTfifrrrrifniriiiii nil I ■iuM M MH ii ii a i n niiii II li i i m • 




LOUIS* SALADS 



one egg very light and add to the above, mixing until 
smooth. Add one cup of white wine or cider vinegar 
(not strong), pour in slowly so as to keep smooth. Boil 
for four or five minutes. Add one table-spoonful of 
butter when ready to take from fire. Stir while cooking. 

ENGLISH MUSTARD 4^ 

Mix English mustard with bouillon or consomme until it 
gets smooth. White wine or cider vinegar can also be 
used instead of the bouillon. For all mixed mustards if 
they get dry put in a little beer or ale. This will bring the 
mustard back to its natural standard. For mixing, 
tarragon vinegar is much preferred. It helps to flavour 
the mustard. 

VINEGAR FOR HOME USE <^ 

Take one gallon white wine vinegar or cider vinegar, 
one-half gallon cheap red California wine, one bunch of 
tarragon, and one-half pint of stout or a glass of heavy 
ale. This should be kept in the kitchen. To make the 
vinegar settle qmcker beat up one dozen eggs and put in 
the vinegar barrel. Never strain vinegar; let it settle 
itself and always keep the same barrel. The older the 
barrel in which the vinegar is, the better your vinegar 
will be. Any kind of red wine mixed with any kind of 
vinegar wiU give a good body and keep for years. 

HOME - MADE FRENCH DRESSING ^5S 

To make one quart take one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half a teaspoonful of white pepper, one-quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of paprika, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of 
English mustard, one-third of a quart of vinegar, shake 
well and make up the balance of the quart with olive-oil. 
This dressing well corked will keep for ever. Always 
shake bottle well before using. Two table-spoonfuls 
sufficient for one portion of salad. To find out if olive-oil 
is pure, dip a piece of white bread in the oil to be tested, 
in which way you can get the true taste of the olive-oil 
and teU whether it is blended with cottonseed oil or not. 

i^.. 



m 



m 



MCk^a«MM*IWM 



w 



I 



€q!^ 



i 






EGGS 

$ Baeh receipt (• for two people ante** otherwi*e noted 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH GREEN PEPPERS ^ 
Take a green pepper and a small onion, chop together 
fine and fry in hutter. Take four eggs and two table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Beat well together and mix them 
in the pan with the onion and pepper and cook slowly, 
stirring until done. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES ^ 
Take two tomatoes, peel and cut them into squares, and 
fry them in some hot olive-oil. When cooked, drain 
off the liquid, and take four eggs well beaten, add some 
cream and scramble. Mix the tomatoes with the eggs, 
seasoning with salt and paprika pepper to taste. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS CHASSEUR ^55 
Take three slices of ham and cut into thin strips. Fry 
with one-half a sliced onion until brown, then add two 
sliced fresh mushrooms. Drain off the fat. Arrange 
some scrambled eggs around the ham, and sprinkle 
chopped parsley over the whole. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH FRESH MUSHROOMS <5£ 
Take three large fresh mushrooms, peel and slice them, 
and chop half a shallot onion very fine. Fry the onion 
in butter, adding the mushrooms to it, and fry the whole 
until brown. Drain off the butter and mix with four 
scrambled eggs before serving. 

EGGS S0UBISSE45S 
Poach two eggs on toast. Strain two well cooked Ber- 
muda onions through a sieve, and dry this puree over a 
fire, add three table-spoonfuls of HoUandaise sauce, 
mix well and ornament the eggs with this. Serve hot. 

45 



^ 








}-i;«»'»ui.tiiM.ita«iavi .» 




I 



LOUIS' SALADS 

EGGS RAVIGOTTE ^ 
Take one table-spoonful of cooked spinach, one pinch of 
capers, a few fine herbs, and boil tmtil dry in tarragon 
vinegar. Strain this through a sieve, and dry the puree 
over the fire. Add three table-spoonfuls of HoUandaise 
sauce. Ornament two poached eggs on toast with this, 
and serve hot. 




EGGS FETE HERBS 4S 
Fry a chopped shallot onion and some fresh tarragon in 
half a glass of white wine till dry. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of HoUandaise sauce, and strain through a '■ 
sieve. Add to the sauce a teaspoonful of finely chopped | 
chives and fennel. Ornament two poached eggs on i 
toast with this sauce, and serve hot. \ 

EGGS ANDALOUSE ^ 
To three table-spoonfuls of HoUandaise sauce, add a 
dash of tomato ketchup, stir weU and ornament two 
poached eggs, one-half with this sauce and one-half 
with plain HoUandaise. Serve hot, with the eggs on 
plain boUed rice. 

EGGS VttLEROI ^ 
Put a cupful of minced chicken on two pieces of toast. 
On top of this place two poached eggs. Take one sliced 
fresh mushroom and half a shaUot onion fried together 
in butter, and drain off the Uquid. To this add three 
table-spoonfuls of HoUandaise sauce, and ornament the 
eggs with this. Serve hot. 



EGGS A L'ARGEWTEUIL <s 
Take the tips of half a bunch of smaU asparagus, and 
cut about one-half an inch in length. Cook these in 
water. When done drain off the water and lay the as- 
paragus tips in a dry towel. Poach two eggs and place 
on toast. Take the asparagus tips and pour three table- 
spoonfuls of HoUandaise sauce over them. Ornament 

the eggs with this, and serve hot. 

46 





wvcufVTii'it:«.*'«i«&-ua;A*'.;>ji ' -w^sbrxiuiKMf ^mu^ivHfjx 



1 * 
■ ? 

i i 



» 



®> CHAFING DISHES 

EGGS A L'OSEILLE OR SORREL ^ 

Take six or seven large and soft leaves of sorrel and 
separate from the stems. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan. Add the sorrel and let it cook until it comes 
to a boil. Drain off the liquid and strain the sorrel 
through a sieve. Mix with three table-spoonfuls of 
Hollandaise sauce. Take two poached eggs on toast 
and ornament with the sauce. Serve hot. 

EGGS ST. GERMAIN ^ 

Strain a handful of cooked French peas through a sieve 
mixed well with three table-spoonfuls of thick Hollan- 
daise, and ornament two poached eggs on toast with this 
sauce. Serve hot. 

EGGS PORTUGAISE <5£ 

Put two table-spoonfuls of olive-oil in a French frying- 
pan, and bring to a smoking heat over a brisk fire. Add 
two finely sliced green peppers and one sliced onion. 
When brown add two sliced tomatoes and let simmer 
until the tomatoes are cooked. Add a little diluted corn- 
starch to thicken it, and ornament two poached eggs 
placed on some plain boiled rice with this sauce. Serve 
hot. 

EGGS ROBINSON ^S£ 

Take half an onion chopped very fine, and fry in butter 
until brown. To this add six cleaned chicken livers 
chopped very fine, and fry the whole over a brisk fire. 
Drain off the butter and add two or three table-spoonfuls 
of brown sauce. Let come to a boil and season to taste. 
Thicken with a little diluted corn-starch, and ornament 
two poached eggs on toast with this. Serve hot. 

EGGS MARQUISE ^ 

Take four hard-boiled eggs and halve lengthwise. Re- 
move the yolks and strain them through a sieve. Take 
a shallot onion chopped fine, fry it in butter, adding to 




LOUIS* SALADS 

this two table-spoonfuls of cream sauce. Season with 
salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. To this add the yolks, 
and mix the whole together well. A thick paste will then 
be formed, with which fill up the whites of the eggs. 
Over the tops sprinkle some grated Swiss cheese, and 
bake to a brown in a very hot oven. Serve hot and orna- 
ment with a light cream sauce. 

EGGS A LA MORNAY ^ 

Poached eggs may be used, or eggs boiled in the shell for 
five minutes or until solid enough to peel. With a heap- 
ing table-spoonful of butter and a glass of rich milk make 
a thick cream sauce, let boil a few minutes, then add two 
table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese and a small 
piece of table butter, season with salt and paprika 
pepper. Stir until well melted. Put four eggs in a flat 
baking dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle with a 
little grated cheese and bake in a hot oven for about 
two minutes tmtil a nice golden colour. Enough for 
four if only one egg is required. 

EGGS A LA BENEDICT <5S .^ 

Poach the eggs, fry or broil as many pieces of ham as eggs, 
the ham having been cut in circles two and one-half 
inches in diameter. Split some English mufSns in two, 
toast and butter them, then put the ham on the muffins, 
the eggs on top of the ham, and cover the whole with 
Hollandaise sauce. This sauce can be substituted by a 
cream sauce with the yolk of an egg stirred into it. One 
egg for one person sufficient for a light meal. 

EGGS A LA MEYERBEER ^ 

Fry four eggs, then cut with a round cutter so that an 
even ring of the white of the egg is left around the yolk. 
Fry four small sausages, split and broil four small lamb 
kidneys, garnish the eggs with these two articles, then 
pour the blood that accumulates in the cavity of the kid- 
ney over the eggs and pour a little rich gravy aroimd the 

whole. For two or four. 

48 




i^ 



I 




®» CHAFING DISHES 

TABASCO EGGS ^€ 
Poach the eggs in milk instead of water, have the milk 
seasoned with a little salt and tabasco sauce, dish up the 
eggs on slices- of toast and pour some of the milk over it, 
just enough to float the toast. Two eggs for one is 
sufficient. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS, QUAKER STYLE <€£ 
Break into small pieces about two ounces of soaked and 
boiled salt codfish free from all bones, moisten the fish 
with half a gill of good cream, let it boil down to about 
two table-spoonfuls of liquid. Scramble four or five eggs 
in the ordinary way; when ready mix with the fish and 
dish up on slices of buttered toast. Enough for three. 

EGGS A LA COQUELICOT ^ 
Butter pretty freely four timbale moulds about two inches 
high and one and one-half inches in diameter. Line the 
moulds with sweet pimentos (they come in cans; the 
bottoms are cut off and they form little bags and can be 
pressed easily in the small mould), trim off all that goes 
over the rim of the mould, then break a raw egg in each. 
Stand the moulds in a small pan with about one-half an 
inch of boiling water in it and poach them slowly in the 
oven till cooked, turn out on round pieces of toast. Pour 
some cream sauce around them. The bright red of the 
pimento and the white sauce on the bottom of the dish 
makes a nice effect. Enough for four. 

OMELETTE CELESTINE ^SS 
Break up some macaroons in small bits, mix them with 
the same quantity of strawberry jam, add a little Curacoa 
and warm slightly. Make an omelette of the size required, 
fill with the preparation and turn it over on the plate. 
Surround the omelette with lady's-fingers, and with a 
paper comet filled with sweetened whipped cream deco- 
rate each lady's-finger. Put powdered sugar over the 
omelette and bum it with a red-hot poker on top. Five 
macaroons, three table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam, six 
lady's-fingers, five eggs sufficient for three persons. 



m 



49 




w 






LOUIS' SALADS 

BEACON OMELETTE <^ 

Take equal amounts of peaches, pears, and pineapple and 
cut in small cubes, heat in a small saucepan with some 
guava jelly and a little Benedictine, and fill an omelette 
with this preparation. Turn it out on a platter, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered sugar, and hum it with a red-hot 
poker. Then pour some rum around it and set fire to it 
at the last moment before serving. 



i ( 



I' 



I 




so 



mmum^inD^^imi 



M 




m 



HOW DIFFERENT SALADS ARE MADE 
AND SERVED 

First all materials should be secured fresh, they must 
be well cleansed, washed without handling, and all water 
removed as much as possible. The salad should be made 
immediately before the meal and be kept cool tmtil 
wanted. Never place a salad in the ice-box where meat 
is kept. 

If no objection, a garlic flavour is healthy and improves 
all salads very much. A slight rubbing of the salad 
bowl with a clove of garlic or the crust of a small piece of 
bread rubbed with garlic and put in the salad bowl will 
improve the flavour of a moderate-sized salad. 

It is worth knowing that the odour of onion or garlic 
may be almost entirely removed from mouth and hands 
by eating celery tops or by rubbing your hands with the 
tops. 

Chopped fresh tarragon, chervils, or chives give a fine 
taste to aU salads. 

The yolk of an egg will give a good body and improve 
all salads. To make a good dressing you must have good 
oil and vinegar. Olive-oil and red wine vinegar are pre- 
ferred. If you cannot get red wine vinegar you can add 
a wine-glass of red wine to a quart of dressing, which is 
made of white wine or cider vinegar. If you run short of 
oil use melted butter, cream or some gravy of some kind 
of roast meat, mix with the yolk of an egg. If you run 
short of vinegar the juice of two lemons to half a wine- 
glass of red wine will answer the purpose. If your oil 
gets cloudy or frozen, add a teaspoonfulof salt to a quart 
and it will clear inside of twenty-four hours. 



» « s 



w 



SALADS 

Owing to the variation In the sixes of the different kinds 
of lettuces at different seasons these receipts vary In quan' 
tlty, but will usually be found sufficient for from two to four 
people^ 

CREAM CHEESE SALAD 4^ 

Take one cream cheese, two table-spoonfuls of butter, 
three table-spoonfuls of cream, and some chives cut very 
small. Mix well together with salt and paprika pepper to 
taste. 



ROMAINE SALAD ^ 

Take the heart of a Romaine, don't wash, but wipe with 
a clean towel, one-half a pint of cream, miy in pepper 
and salt to taste. This is the proper way to eat Romaine, 
and the only way it is served in Paris, especially in private 
famiUes. No dressing. 

CHIFFONADE OR PANACHE SALAD <^ 

Miz escarole, chicory, and endives and ornament with 
cold boiled beets. Serve with French dressing. 

MARLIAVE SALAD 4^ 

Mix escarole, chicory and endives, add a sliced Bermuda: 
onion, flavour with a little garlic and serve with fine 
herbs, such as chives, tarragon or chervils. Ornament 
with cold boiled beets. Serve with French dressing. 

SUMMER SALAD -^ 

Ornament a salad-bowl with lettuce, sliced cucumbers, 
tomatoes, celery, sliced young onions, and serve with fine 
herbs. Add some French dressing. 

WINTER SALAD 4& 

Take a small red cabbage, cut very fine. Slice some 
I smoked bacon in small pieces, put in a casserole and let 




r 



LOUIS* SALADS 

bacon cook for five minutes. Then add a table-spoonful 
of vinegar, miT cabbage with it and cook for fifteen min- 
utes. No dressing and to be served hot. 

POTATO SALAD ^ 

Take six cold sliced boiled potatoes, one onion chopped 
fine, add a teaspoonful of chopped chives and mix well 
together. Put on a platter and ornament with lettuce 
and cooked beets cut in cubes. 



I SALADE LOUIS <^ 

Jl Take three slices of the white meat of chicken, three 
jl slices of cooked beets, three slices of Swiss cheese, two 
small boiled potatoes, a raw green pepper, and cut in 
small cubes. Add the heart of a Romaine lettuce sliced. 
Sprinkle in a teaspoonful of chopped chives, and mix the 
whole together well. Ornament with a sliced Bermuda 
onion and a sliced hard-boiled egg. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of French dressing. 

NEST EGG SALAD ^ 

Line a soup-plate with watercress and sliced Bermuda 
onions, fill up with three sliced hard-boiled eggs and 
sprinkle a little Roquefort cheese on top. Serve with 
French dressing. 

CHEESE SALAD <5£ 

Take one Neuchatel or half a cream cheese, one small 
piece of butter, salt and paprika pepper to taste, some 
chopped onions and chives and parsley, one table-spoon- 
ful of olive-oil and mix well together. No dressing. 



ALSATIAN SALAD ^s£ 

Take two quarts of sour milk and remove all the water. 
Add two table-spoonfuls of chopped chives and one tea- 
spoonful of chopped shallot onion. Mix together well 
and serve cold with hot boiled potatoes. No dressing. 

In the summer this salad is very refreshing and will 
relieve thirst. 




r ^ ^ 

(a> CHAFING DISHES 

SALADE HOLLANDE <€£ 
Wash one herring in lukewarm water, wipe the skin off, 
cut in fillets and serve on a few leaves of lettuce, orna- 
ment with chopped onions, pickles, capers, fine herbs, 
and when ready to serve put a table-spoonful of French 
dressing over it. 

ANCHOVY SALAD ^ 
Wash half a dozen anchovies in lukewarm water, re- 
moving skin and bones. Place the fillets in a few leaves 
of lettuce. Ornament with chopped onions, pickles, ca- 
pers and fine herbs. Sprinkle over this a chopped hard- 
boiled egg, and serve with French dressing. 

SALADE RUSSET 
Take some fresh cold cooked vegetables, such as beans, 
carrots, peas, beets, asparagus tips, potatoes and green 
peppers, sliced in small cubes, and mix well. Place on a 
shallow dish and ornament with lettuce, sliced Bermuda 
onions and the boiled white of an egg, and cut in small 
cubes. On top lay a dozen fillets of anchovies wrapped 
around the same number of stuffed olives. Serve with 
French dressing. Sufficient for four people. 

TOURAINE SALAD ^S 
Wash in cold water one pound of Malaga grapes, split 
grapes and remove seeds and mix with lettuce, add one 
table-spoonful of French dressing. 

IMPERIAL SALADS 
Mix one bunch of watercress, two potatoes, Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, and ornament with beet-root. Veg- 
etables must be cooked and cold. Serve with French 
dressing. 



ROBmSON CRUSOE SALAD ^ 
Take a handful of dandelion leaves and slice three hard' 
eggs on top. Serve with French dressing. 

i7 Jt 




i boiled 



Pi il 



LOUIS* SALADS 

VEGETABLE SALAD <5S 
Mix celery, tomatoes, cucumbers, sliced fresh vegetables 
of the season, and ornament with lettuce. Serve with 
French dressing. 

POND LE.Y SALAD <5S 
Take six hard-boiled eggs, shell and put in vinegar in 

II which cooked sliced beets have been. Let them remain 
overnight, which will turn the eggs a light pink. Cut off 
the ends of the eggs and carefully remove the yolks. 

1 1 Cut the white carefully so as to look Uke pond lilies, take 
the yolks and rub melted butter into them, then carefully 
fill in the mixture in the whites to form the centre. Ar- 
range on a platter of lettuce. Serve with French dressing. 

;| ROYAL SALADS 

I Take some fresh pineapple, oranges, celery, apples, and 

II cut in cubes or dice, mix with some mayonnaise into 

•: \ which a few table-spoonfuls of heavy cream was pre- 

II viously mixed. Dish up on a shallow salad-dish and 

k garnish with finely chopped green peppers and sweet 

jl pimento in little heaps alternating the colour all around 

; I the border. Sprinkle a few finely chopped pecan nuts in 

! i the centre. 



WALDORF SALAD ^s 
11 Take some peeled apples and the same quantity of the 
j| hearts of cleaned and peeled white celery, cut in 
\ small cubes and mix with a well-seasoned mayonnaise. 
1 1 Put in a flat salad-dish. Cut some sweet Spanish pepper 
\ I in long narrow strips and put them over the salad like a 
1 1 grating and surround the whole with some leaves of 
hearts of lettuce. 



il 



SHERRY SALAD <^ 
Take equal parts of apple, celery, and Malaga grapes, cut 
in small cubes and add a few coarsely chopped walnuts, 
mix the whole with some mayonnaise dressing. Dish up 
and surround with lettuce leaves. I I 

S8 



n 



®> CHAFING DISHES 

CELERY AND APPLE A LA PARKER ^ 

Peel a good-sized apple, cut off the top and scoop out the 
inside in such a way as to leave just a wall of about one- 
quarter of an inch thick. Then cut some white celery 
very fine, mix it with mayonnaise dressing, and with it 
fill the apple heaping full. Cut a narrow strip of sweet 
pimento, and trim the rim of the apple with it, also cut 
a round piece the size of a nickel and place on top. 
Serve on large yellow lettuce leaves. This salad looks 
very pretty and is served individually. 

MACEDOINE DE FRUIT AU MARASQUIN, OR 
FRUIT SALAD WITH MARASCHINO ^ 

Different kinds of fresh fruits can be used, such as bananas, 

1 1 II oranges, pineapples, and tender Bartlett pears, cut in 

small slices, also berries in season can be added. Put all 

in a dish, but keep each fruit separate, sugar to taste and 

pour some brandy and Maraschino over the whole. Serve 

( on a flat glass dish in " bouquets " in such a way as to 

i I alternate the different fruits and colours, and at last pour 

i| the juice of the different fruits over the whole. The 

1 1 fruits ought to be kept on ice until ready to serve. 




SALADE FRANCIS <^ 

Take a cupful of boiled tripe cut in small cubes, half a 
cupful of boiled calves' head cut in small pieces, and mix 
together, adding one teaspoonful of chives and a tea- 
spoonful finely chopped onions. Take a teaspoonful of 
boiled calves' brain, and mix well with two teaspoon- 
fuls of French dressing, and mix in with the calves' head. 
Ornament with sliced beets. Serve cold. Sufficient for 
three people. 

SALADE DE BCEUF ^55 
Take two cupfuls of boiled beef cut in very small cubes, 
add half a cup finely chopped celery, a small boiled beet, 
two boiled potatoes and a green pepper, aU cut in small 
cubes. Mix together well and add a quarter of a tea- 

' 59 y 



m 



^ 




LOUIS' SALADS 

spoonful each of chopped chervil and tarragon. Mix in 
four table-spoonfuls of French dressing and ornament 
with sliced Bermuda onions. Serve cold. Enough for 
four people. 



SALADEDE VEAU^ 

Take two cupfuls cold roast veal cut in small cubes, one 
good-sized tomato cut in small pieces, a teaspoonful 
chopped fine herbs, and one chopped green pepper. Mix 
together well and add four table-spoonfuls of dressing 
made from one table-spoonful tomato ketchup and three 
table-spoonfuls French dressing with a dash of Tabasco 
sauce. Ornament with a few small veal tongues well 
trimmed, sliced Bermuda onions and a few chopped 
truffles. Serve cold. Enough for four people. 

TOMATOES A LA GRAY^S 

Peel six small tomatoes and add some chopped chives 
and chervils. Serve with sauce made of one table-spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise and a teaspoonful of Hollandaise sauce, 
mixing the two together well. 



CUCUMBERS FINE HERBS 42? 

Peel and slice in thin pieces two large cucumbers, seed 
them and place in water to which a little salt has been 
added. Leave in the water for about tvrenty minutes. 
Then squeeze cucumbers in a piece of cheese-cloth, add 
a teaspoonful of chopped fine herbs and fiavour with a 
little garlic. When ready to serve add two table-spoon- 
fuls of French dressing. 



j i WHITE BEAN SALAD 4^ 

|i Take about four cupfuls of cooked white string beans^ 

I j and while warm add a table-spoonful of finely chopped 

I onions and serve with two table-spoonfuls of dressing. 

) I Only serve this salad hot. 




60 



asB 



m 




Bnt»f^ftSK%^»»(W»etv«i :'.-.-' . -.■■ f- iimi^mHitlii^Z- 



®» CHAFING DISHES 

SALSIFIS SALAD 4^ 
Take half a dozen good-sized oyster-plants and boil. 
When done remove all liquid and allow to cool. When 
cold cut in small cubes and ornament with yellow leaves 
of the plant. Some Swiss cheese cut in small cubes may 
be added. Serve with two table-spoonfuls of French 
dressing. 

SALADE JAPONAISE iS£ 
Boil half a dozen potatoes in bouillon, mash them, and 
when cold add half a cupful of shrimps, half a cupful of 
veal tongue cut in small squares and plenty of chopped 
chives. Over this sprinkle a few minced truffles, and ar- 
range around a long dish, leaving the centre hollow. Or- 
nament the centre with lettuce and hard-boiled 
eggs and cooked beets cut in small pieces, adding three 
table-spoonfuls of French dressing. 

SALADE AUX SARDINES <5S 
To half a head of lettuce and half a bunch of water- 
cress add six boned sardines cut in small pieces, a couple 
of sprigs of chopped chervil, half a teaspoonful of minced 
capers and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs mashed fine. 
Add two table-spoonfuls of French dressing, not oily. Or- 
nament with sliced pickled green peppers and sliced 
lemons. 

TOMATOES TAYLOR 45S 
Take two good-sized tomatoes. Peel and slice them and 
add a few slices of Bermuda onions, one finely sliced 
green pepper, two sliced leeks, tnro table-spoonfuls of 
French dressing and half a teaspoonful of fine herbs. 

BAKER'S ISLAM) SALAD <^ 
Take a dozen large mussels and boil with a stick of celery. 
Drain well and add six sliced boiled potatoes, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped fine herbs and two table-spoonfuls of 
French dressing. A small clove of garlic chopped very 
fine will improve it. Mix the whole well and serve very 

cold. 

61 






LOUIS* SALADS 

ASPERGES LOTHIAN ^5£ 

Take some yellow Romaine leaves and fill them with as- 
paragus tips. Place some mayomiaise dressing on top 
and ornament with green peppers. Use no dressing. 

CELERY RICHARDSON ^ 

Take the white stalks of a head of celery and cut in pieces 
an inch long, and place them in a salad-bowl. Shred the I 
whites of three hard-boiled eggs and add to the celery. 
Season with two table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing 
and one chopped shallot onion. Spread over the top 
finely chopped yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. Orna- 
ment the dish with lettuce. 



SALADE GORDON ^ 

Take the leaves of a head of lettuce and add a quarter of 
a pound of Swiss cheese cut in small cubes, two sUced 
boiled potatoes, and a Bermuda onion finely sliced. Or- | 
nament with beets and green peppers. Serve with half a | j 
teaspoonful of fine herbs and two table-spoonfuls of | 
French dressing. 



» ' « 




m 



Simple M^t^ ittaDe t»ft]^ €l^zm 






et^HK#fir^>i^.vl.'.'S$f)^||j|^ 



i iiiiiiiiiiiii I i i S Wi 






i 






ill 







i 



SIMPLE DISHES MADE WITH CHEESE 

CHEESE CROQUETTES <^ 

To one cupful of thick boiling cream sauce made with 
butter, half milk, half cream and flour, add one pound of 
good rarebit cheese cut in small squares or cubes, the 
yolks of two eggs, salt and cayenne pepper. Stir it to- 
gether on the fire for a minute or tnro, and then put away 
to cool off quickly. When cold form small oval-shaped 
flat croquettes, bread them twice in beaten eggs and 
crumbs, and fry in very hot deep fat. Serve on a napkin. 
Enough for ten croquettes. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE AU PARMESAN ^ 

Heat a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, 
stir into it a heaping table-spoonful of flour, let simmer for 
a minute together. Then moisten with a cup of boiling 
milk, and stir briskly on the fire for a couple of minutes 
so as to obtain a light paste or very thick sauce. Add 
four table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese while 
boiling hot, let cool off for three minutes, and then add 
the yolks of four eggs, season to taste. Beat up the four 
whites to a stiff froth and mix with the batter. When 
cold carefully fill some buttered fireproof china ramekin 
dishes with this, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about twelve minutes. The ramekins should be only 
three-quarters full. Enough for about six or seven. 

RAMEQUmS OF CHEESE ^5£ 
Take four ounces of rarebit cheese and two ounces of 
Swiss cheese cut in very small cubes, two oimces grated 
Parmesan cheese, three eggs, one cup of thick cream, 
salt, pepper and cayenne. Beat the eggs and cream to- 
gether, add the three kinds of cheese and seasoning, mix 
well. Butter some ramekin dishes, put a band of very 
thin puff-paste around the inside of the dish only half- 
way to the bottom, but a little higher up than the rim. 



M 



6S 



Mria 




««• 



i. 



LOUIS* SALADS 

Fill it up with the preparation about three-quarters full, 
and bake slowly for about twelve minutes. It will rise up 
considerably. Serve immediately like a souffle. Enough 
for six. 

ROQUEFORT AU PORT 4^ 

Take an eighth of a pound of Roquefort cheese, a small 
piece of butter, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and 
two table-spoonfuls of heavy port wine. Add paprika 
pepper to taste and mix the whole together well. Mix 
this with cracker dust and serve in the shape of croquettes. 



CREME AU BAR LE DUG ^5S 

11 i| Take a cream cheese and mix it well with two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, then add a jar of Bar le Due jelly, red 
or white, mixing the whole together. Serve with hot 
toasted crackers. 

CREME A L'EGAW ^ss 

Take one Neuchatel cheese and mix well with a piece of 
good butter. Mix in two table-spoonfuls of raspberry 
jam and serve with hot toasted crackers. 






It 





sasssss 




^anDtDfcl^e0 



1 * 



i 



m 



ar: 



i 



.;tPE 





> -> S >i •<—-.■-. — ""V 




SANDWICHES 

To make sandwiches is a plain affair, but a good many 
do not know how to make them properly and attractively. 
If the bread is cut thin and of an equal thickness and 
properly buttered and the meat free from gristle and fat, 
and cut in nice thin slices, and furthermore, the whole 
sandwich carefully trimmed into a nice square shape and 
then cut diagonally, served on a plate covered with a nap- 
kin, it will always be appreciated. When, however, one 
gets two chunks of bread with thick pieces of meat be- 
tween, the butter unevenly spread on the bread, it will 
rapidly diminish the appetite. 

Ham, tongue, roast beef, corned beef, lamb, chicken, 
veal and ham, and turkey sandwiches are all made in the 
same plain way, — the bread and meat cut thinly and the 
butter softened so it will spread evenly over the bread. 
The fresh meat sandwiches are seasoned with salt. With 
ham, tongue and beef a little French or English mustard 
may be added according to taste. 

CLUB SANDWICH ^ 

Toast two slices of bread and cover them thinly with 
mayonnaise dressing. Place two slices of chicken, white 
meat only, on one piece of toast. On top of this place 
one or two lettuce leaves and sprinkle some salt over it. 
Put the other piece of toast on top of this, and press the 
sandwich together a little and trim nicely, and cut the 
sandwich in two triangles. Serve warm if possible. 

Sometimes thin slices of broiled bacon, sliced tomatoes 
and even sliced pickles are added to the club sandwich. 
Bacon is acceptable, but if the two other articles are added 
the combination is superfluous. 



I i 11 SARDINE SANDWICHES -^ 

Toast two slices of bread and butter them thinly. Take 
two or three sardines, scrape off the scales, split them in 



69 




^ 



'm" 



jja BMrWuffiift -j' '"iv 1-. «s,-M*, ■ *<» ivM*** 



LOUIS* SALADS 

two, remove the bone, cover one piece of toast with the 
sardines, shake a little pepper on top and a few drops of 
lemon juice. Put the other piece of toast on top, trim 
nicely, cut the sandwich diagonally and serve warm if 
possible. 



WINDSOR SANDWICHES ^ 

To make four sandwiches mix four heaping table-spoon- 
fuls of chopped ham and four of chicken with about three 
table-spoonfuls of thick mayonnaise dressing. Spread 
this mixture on a piece of bread, cover with another slice 
and trim. Cut in halves. 



CREOLE SANDWICHES ^ 

Take six table-spoonfuls of chopped chicken, two table- 
spoonfuls of green peppers previously parboiled and 
chopped fine. Mix with this two table-spoonfuls of may- 
onnaise dressing. Add salt to taste and a pinch of chopped 
parsley. With this make a regular sandwich, trimming 
the crust. 



DUBNEY SANDWICHES ^^ 

i Take six table-spoonfuls of chopped chicken, two or three 

! table-spoonfuls of mayoimaise dressing, a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped onions, a pinch of finely cut chives, salt 
j and pepper to taste. Mix well together and spread on 
I toasted bread and cover with another piece of toast. 

i Trim the edges. 

70 




EGG AND LETTUCE SANDWICH <^ 

Cover one slice of bread with mayonnaise and shredded | 
lettuce. Butter the other slice and cover with one 

chopped hard-boiled egg. Add plenty of salt and put the | 

two pieces together. Trim and cut lengthwise in two I 

pieces. i 



m 



<& CHAFING DISHES 



SANDWICH AU FOIE GRAS ^^ 
Remove all the grease from a small pate de foie gras. 



1^ 
I Strain this through a sieve and spread it over a slice of 

thin bread. Cover it with another slice. With a small 

cutter, half-moon or other fancy shape, die out three or 

four small sandwiches from this sUce. 



CAVIAR SANDWICHES <SS 
Toast two sUces of bread, butter them slightly and spread 
I : ] upon them some caimed Russian or fresh caviar. Sprinkle 
I 11 half a teaspoonful of very finely chopped onion over this, 
add a few drops of lemon juice. Put the two pieces to- 
gether, trim well and serve hot or cold. 



NEUCHATEL SANDWICHES <5S 
Cut Pumpemickle or rye bread in thin slices, spread 
some Neuchatel cheese over it and on top sprinkle some 
finely cut chives. Season with a little salt and pepper and 
serve without trimming. Pumpemickle can be bought 
in delicatessen stores in cans, thinly sliced and of excel- 
lent quality. 



! 



PUREE OF SARDmES AND EGG SANDWICHES <ss 
Drain the oil from a small can of sardines. Remove the 
scales and bones from the fish and strain them through 
a sieve. Place this puree in a bowl, add two ounces of 
softened butter, a little pepper, and one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, mix well together. Cover the two 
slices of toast with this, and on top place some finely 
chopped hard-boiled eggs. Put the two pieces together, 
trim ofi the crust and cut in triangles. Sufficient for two 
sandwiches if desired. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICHES ^^ 
Toast two pieces of bread, cover one with a thin coating 
of Anchovy paste. On top put fillets of anchovies cross- 
wise, sprinkle on some finely chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
cover with the other piece of toast. Trim well and cut 
the sandwich in four triangles. 

7" 







■ ^vf^a' iiMj-^jtiJSKf^Jts-' ^' ^i 




LOUIS' SALADS 



MELBA SAITDWICHES 4S 



Stone half a dozen olives and chop very fine, add a table- 
spoonful of thick mayonnaise dressing and a teaspoonful 
of finely chopped pecans or walnuts. Spread between 
two slices of bread — graham bread may be used. 



m 



72 



.aiimMHBfc. 




n^ 



i^iswrwajo'-w^p'i ' 




I 






; 1 



» , -M 





FRUIT DESSERTS 

GRAPE- FRUIT <^ 
Take a grape-fruit, cut in two, seed and pour in a 
liqueur-glass of Maraschino or Anisette. 

ORANGES ^S 
Take an orange, cut in two, seed and pour in a liqueur- 
glass of Cacao or brandy. 

PnmAPPLE -^ 
Take peeled pineapple, slice, put on a platter, add some 
powdered sugar, a liqueur - glass of Maraschino, two 
liqueur-glasses of Jamaica rum, set fire to it, and 
serve while burning. 

RAISONS AU RUM<5£ 
Take a potmd of raisins, one-quarter of a pound of granu- 
lated sugar, one-half pint of rum in a bowl, bum same, 
when half burned mix in two table-spoonfuls of jelly, and 
serve while flaming. 

STRAWBERRIES AU KIRSCH ^s 
Take a box of strawberries, wash and dry them well, add 
one-quarter of a potmd of granulated sugar, the juice of 
one-half a lemon, a liqueur-glass of Kirschwasser, half a 
liqueur-glass of brandy, half a liqueur-glass of Mara- 
schino. Ornament with sliced oranges and lemon peel. 

PEACHES AU BORDEAUX ^^ 
Skin and slice three peaches, sugar to taste, add a liqueur- 
glass of peach brandy, a wine-glass of red wine, and serve. 

PEARS AU VIN BLANC ^55 
Skin and slice three pears, sugar to taste, add a wine- 
glassful of good white wine with the juice of one-half a 
lemon. 



^ 



K! 



r 



if 



LOUIS* SALADS 




BANANAS AU CERISE ^ 
Skin and slice three bananas, sugar to taste, add a liqueur- 
glass of Maraschino and a wine-glassful of cherry jtiice. 

CHERRffiS AU RUM ^ 
Wash and dry well a pound of cherries and remove the 
stones, add sugar to taste, and one-half pint of Jamaica 
rum. Set fire to it, and serve while burning. 



CREME AU KIRSCH ^ 
jl Take a cream cheese, one-quarter teaspoonful of granu- 
II lated sugar, one liqueur-glass of Kirschwasser, and one- 
half a liqueur-glass of Maraschino. Miz well together, and 
serve on macaroons or lady's-fingers. 

CREME AUX ALMONDS <^ 
Take one cream cheese, one-quarter of a pound of salted 
almonds crushed, and two liqueur-glasses of Kirsch- 
wasser. Mix well and serve in croquette shape. 

WATERMELON AU CHAMPAGNE ^ 
Take a small watermelon, bore a piece out of it as large as 
a cup and so you can put it back again, fill the melon 
with champagne and put on ice for three hours. Serve 
in slices. American champagne can be used. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT CHAUNCEY OLCOTT ^ 
Take one-quarter of a pound of Malaga grapes, skinned 
and seeded, skin and slice two pears, two apples, three 
peaches, three plums. To these add three table-spoonfuls 
of sugar, one liqueur-glass each of Maraschino, apricot 
brandy, and Kummel. Serve in a fruit-bowl and orna- 
ment with sliced oranges and cocktail cherries. 



CANTALOUPE WHITNEY <s 
Seed a meditun-sized cantaloupe and fill each half with 
strawberries and half a liqueur-glass of Maraschino or 

Kirschwasser. Sugar to taste and serve cold. 

76 



k 





■ 



m 



(»> CHAFING DISHES 

GOOSEBERRIES ATJ MARASCHmO <5£ 
Take a cupful of ripe gooseberries, wash and dry them 
well, sprinkle a table-spoonful of powdered sugar over 
them and add a liqueur-glass of the juice of Maraschino 
cherries. 



RASPBERRIES AU VIN BLANC 4S 
To a cupful of raspberries add a liqueur-glass of Grenadine 
and half a glassful of good white wine. Sweeten to taste. 

BLACKBERRIES AU CASSIS ^^ 

Take two cupfuls of blackberries, wash and drain well, 
add one table-spoonful of sugar and the juice of half a 
lemon, and one liqueur-glass of Cassis. Serve on a dish 
ornamented with sliced apples. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL <& 

Take one quart of gooseberries, three-quarters of a potmd 
of sugar and a half a cup of water and boil until cooked. 
Strain through a fine sieve and let cool until ice cold. 
Then carefully mix a pint of whipped cream with this. 
Serve in a deep glass dish, surrounding the gooseberries 
with sponge drops or lady's-fingers. 

STRAWBERRIES A LA ROMAINE 4^ 

Take a quart of strawberries well picked and sprinkle 
over them about three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Pile on a deep glass dish and put on ice for an hour or 
more. When ready to serve take a pint of plain sherbet 
in a bowl, stirring it with a wooden spoon, and add a 
glass of champagne and two liqueur-glasses of Mara- 
schino. Cover the strawberries with this sherbet and 
serve immediately. 

RASPBERRY TARTLET MERINGUE ^ 

Line six fancy tartlet moulds with thin pie crust dough. 
Fill with cracker crumbs and bake untU crisp and golden 

77 





LOUIS' SALADS 

brown. When cold remove the crumbs. Miz half a pint 
of raspberries with some powdered sugar and fill the tart- 
lets with this, high in the centre but away from the rim. 
Take the whites of three or four eggs and beat to a stiff 
froth, and mix in three or four otmces of powdered sugar. 
Cover the berries with this meringue. Bake in a moderate 
oven for six or eight minutes. 

PEACHES AU KIRSCH ^ 

Take two peaches, peel and cut in halves and remove the 
stones. Fill the cavities with crushed almonds. Make 
a sauce from half a wine-glass of good white wine, and 
a liqueur-glass of Kirschwasser. Sweeten to taste and 
pour over the peaches. 

BLUEBERRIES AU VERMOUTH ^ 

Take a cupful of blueberries, wash and dry them, add a 
table-spoonful of powdered sugar and about a wine-glass- 
ful of French Vermouth. Ornament with sliced pineapple. 

FIGS AU RUM ^S£ 

Take a quarter of a poimd of dried figs and place in a deep 
platter or bowl. Add a wine-glassful of Jamaica rum and 
one teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Set fire to this, and 
keep stirring well tmtil the rum is all burnt. 







t*««i*»a^js".!3g ^j L >i niiwwm ia aiii a rM aiiMw — j umiM^ u m ! i lj i , ita^^^H v^^ . ■ - -wa-*emt^^i'»tMmKMB^ifim 




^1 ^i 



four faljottrfte M^W 







WVmvWtW'^^sM^i 



aaaaarem»f»fsanaifi 





FOUR FAVOURITE DISHES 

I 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE ^ 

Some cooks think that in making this dish if all kinds 
of vegetables are cooked with it, it will be an improvement, 
but in the end it is usually more like a vegetable stew 
than a chicken en casserole. 

To prepare it properly takes time; at least an hour or 
more for a medium-sized chicken. Take your chicken 
cleaned and dressed, and place in a casserole with a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, and roast it in the oven for 
about half an hour, then add one small onion cut thin, 
two slices of bacon, two fresh mushrooms and a little 
celery. Let cook together for about ten minutes in the 
casserole with the chicken. Then sprinkle half a tea- 
spoonful of flour over the whole, moistening with a cup- 
ful of brown gravy or rich stock and two table-spoonfuls 
of sherry. Season well. Put the cover on and let it sim- 
mer for half an hour or more. The chicken must be well 
cooked and the gravy boiled down so as to have just 
enough to go around for the two or three diners. Serve 
with a napkin placed around the casserole. 



(EUFS A LA NEIGE OR FLOATING ISLAND ^ 

Take one quart of milk slightly sweetened and flavour 
with vanilla, put In a shallow pan and let come to a boil. 
Take the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and add 
three otmces of powdered sugar, mixing carefully. Take 
this light meringue in heaping big spoonfuls, smoothing it 
on top so as to obtain the shape of a large egg and dip 
them in the boiling milk. Make about seven or eight of 
these egg-shaped masses. Let simmer for two or three 
minutes, then turn them over carefully and let them 
cook three minutes more. Remove them from the milk 
and put them on a napkin to drain and cool off. To the 
milk that is left add a little more sugar and the yolks of 

8i 



at ^^ 



i 



u^a.tiitsaii'ita^f 



LOUIS* SALADS 



!) 



six eggs, making an ordinary custard. If you want it 

\i thicker add a little corn-starch. Strain the custard into 

a deep glass dish, and when cold put the snow eggs on top. 



it 






MUSHROOMS UNDER GLASS COVER ^ i\ 

i I \\ First procure a small round blazer and instead of a tin | 

'I : cover use a glass globe or cover for it. Second, butter 5 [ 

I i 1 i your dish very well, put a large piece of toast m the dish, |j 
!; pile about twelve small peeled mushrooms on top of the ' 
I ; ; toast, put on a piece of maitre d'hotel butter the size of 
I ; ; one-half an egg, sprinkle a little salt over it. Then add 
|! W one-half a gill of cream, two table-spoonfuls of sherry 

wine. Put the cover on and let it simmer over a slow fire 

II II for about fifteen minutes' actual cooking. Should the 

cream boil down too quickly add a little more, but it is 

better not to lift up the cover until ready to serve, to 

82 



i OMELETTE SOUFFLE ^ 

Is 'A Take the yolks of four eggs, place in a bowl and add four 

" ' I '' I i i ^ 

heaping table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and half a || ii 

i I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Beat together vigorously 
; with a spoon or a small wire whisk for five or six minutes. 

I j 11 Take the whites of seven or eight eggs, put in a bowl, and 
beat to a very stiff froth. Now mis the yolks and whites 
together very carefully, so that the beaten whites will not 
be worked up too much; that is, be sure the whites keep 
their firmness. Then pile the mixture on a slightly but- 
tered silver or metal dish, smooth it over with a knife so 
as to obtain a dome-shaped form, and bake in a very | 
moderate oven for about twelve minutes or more and 
serve immediately. Any other flavour than vanilla can 
be substituted. Some fresh strawberries or similar fruit 
previously sugared can be put on the bottom of the dish. 
To make the omelette souffle a success two things have 
to be taken into consideration. First, that the whites of 
the eggs are beaten to a stiff froth, and second, that the 
mixing together of the whites and yolks of the eggs be 
done very carefully with a flat wooden spoon. 



i 



;^^>;M%».r<>Ci(sn-BW{s£> 



w 



' ®> CHAFING DISHES 



preserve the flavour of the mushrooms. (For maitre 
d'hotel butter, take three table-spoonfuls of butter, three 
teaspooufiils of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful finely 
chopped onion, and juice of half a lemon. Salt and pepper 
to taste, and mix well.) 



f 



1^ 



m 



83 




— i 



ii 



ij 






L 



wE 



y**^*» «im a iMMW iii 




!l^ 




I 



HINTS ON CARVING 

Before I enter into details about carving meats, poultry, 
game, etc., I would Uke to say that a piece of meat com- 
ing " red hot " to the table from the oven is very difficult 
to carve, as the slices will shrink up, lose blood, and not 
appear very attractive. A piece of beef, ribs, loin, etc., or 
a saddle or leg of mutton, etc., should have a chance to 
rest on a warm place for about ten minutes or more be- 
fore carving so that the meat can " settle down " as I 
may call it, and then it can be carved much better. All 
kinds of poultry before roasting or boiling should be tied 
up with a string in such a way that the breast of the fowl 
sticks out well above the legs, — this is a great advan- 
tage to the carver. A piece of beef like ribs of beef should 
be properly trimmed of gristle, fat and bones before send- 
ing it to the dining-room. Concerning mutton, all the 
red skin on the leg or loin should be removed before 
roasting, otherwise when cooked it is so crisp that no 
knife can pass through it easily. 

ROAST CHICKEN ^ 

To carve a roast chicken, remove the two legs, make 
a cut between the leg and breast, stick the fork in the 
thick part of the leg and lift it up from the carcass, cut 
through the joint between the drumstick and second 
joint and cut the second joint lengthwise in two. Cut the 
breast in four pieces, first take the two wings nearly the 
entire length of the breast and cut the centre of the 
breast lengthwise in two, following the breast-bone with 
the knife. Smaller pieces on the carcass like the oysters 
and wing-bone piece can be taken off easily. 



ROAST TURKEY -SSS 

To carve a turkey take the legs off first, carve them in 
pieces, especially the second joint. The drumstick is gen- 

Lerally full of sinews, but they can be removed before 

g* I :: ^ 






LOUIS* SALADS 

roasting. Then start to carve the breast in large thin 
slices, starting at the wing and going up the breast until 
the breast-bone is reached. 

ROAST GOOSE ^ 

To carve a goose first remove the legs, then the wish- 
bone, cut down to the carcass on each side of the breast- 
bone, then start to slice off the breast. Unlike carving a 
chicken, start right on the top of the breast from the 
right to the left, slanting down to the wing. This will give 
you large thin slices; cut the legs the same way as with a 
turkey. 

WILD DUCK <s 

To carve a wild duck usually the breast only is used, the 
legs are generally too tough. Cut along the breast-bone 
right down to the joint of the wing, lift off the whole 
breast on one side, then on the other. If the duck is of 
good size cut the breast afterward in two pieces length- 
wise or even three slices if small portions are sufficient. 
Press the carcass and legs to get the blood out, and pour 
over the breast. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON OR LAMB -^ 

There are two ways to carve a saddle, crosswise like 
chops, or lengthwise, — the latter is the best but more ex- 
travagant. First cut the saddle into two parts, then cut 
down the back-bone, following the bone with the knife so 
as to lift up the meat of a quarter of a saddle in one chunk, 
then cut this chunk in four or five long slices. That 
means about sixteen to twenty slices from one saddle. 

LEG OF LAMB OR MUTTON <5S 

The aitchbone, which comes at the steak or large end : 
of the leg, should be removed before the lamb or mutton 
is cooked, and it is a good plan if this is done to bind the 
leg with a string. There are two ways in carving, the 




88 



^ 




- '.L- -" ^yii }i».t^mwiT.pflHw a» «gF«^ 'i^,-/rc-. ■ ■-' - K«M!un>am3M 



rj&wi^.'-'^^ia.iat.-i i'sn'ftAaja.ivi 




®» CHAPING DISHES 



first giving better slices, while the second is more econom- 
ical. Start at the steak end and cut straight down against 
the grain until the bone is reached. Cut as many slices as 
needed and then pass the knife along the bone, relieving 
the slices from the meat on the other side of the bone. 
This way will give good regular pieces of meat. For the 
more economical way, carve the whole leg at once, start- 
ing at the small or shin end, cutting straight down across 
the grain to the bone. When the whole side is cut in 
slices, pass the knife along the bone, removing the pieces. 
Turn the leg over and carve the other side in the same 
manner. 



HAM<€ 
Do not remove the bone before cooking, as with the leg 
of mutton. When well cooked, the ham will loosen itself 
and can easily be removed. In carving, proceed in the 
same manner as with the leg of lamb or mutton. 



at <B 







m 



BmBra'WrTrn?i'"'ff""''r7"'' ■■: 



>''^>»^»4^'<4n«isian 



i^ 



& 




k 



ifflssrarts^BHr: - i^i'jumsiswvuK 





m 



HOW TO MAKE A BILL OF FAKE OR 

MENU 

Menus fall in three different classes, — the first for 
young ladies, second for ladies and gentlemen, and third 
for gentlemen or gourmets. All are practically governed 
by the same rule. You must see that the meats, and so 
forth, yary, — Ught and dark meats, — and that the sauces 
are of different colours and taste, that you have not two 
or three fried courses in the same dinner, and the same 
refers to sauces " brown " or " white." Luncheon or 
dinner for young folks (ladies especially) should consist 
of light, delicate things attractive to the eye, but tasteful 
to the palate. For a mixed dinner of ladies and gentle- 
men some good " recherches " dishes ought to be selected, 
as these diners are more or less capable judges about good 
things, especially " entrees " hot or cold. For the third 
class, a gentlemen's diimer, good, substantial, but plain 
dishes ought to be selected to tickle the gourmand's 
palate. 

Cold, appetizing dishes of some kind, chaud-froid or 
galantins, are welcome in summer, but not so much ap- 
preciated in cold weather. Fishes that are just in season 
ought always to be selected; the same thing is true of 
vegetables and game. Canned vegetables should be 
avoided as much as possible. Salads like cucumber and 
tomato should be served with the fish, green salads like 
lettuce, Romaine or escarole with small birds or chicken; 
celery or fancy salads like Waldorf or similar combinations 
with wild ducks or game of any kind. One vegetable and 
some kind of potatoes are suflicient to be served with the 
grosse piece or joint. Hot cheese, like cheese croquettes, 
ramequins of cheese and croutons, served before the des- 
sert or ice-cream, are preferred in diimers to cold cheese. 

Three menus to illustrate the different classes of lunches 
and dinners are given herewith. 

93 



m 



LOUIS* SALADS 



A LUNCHEON FOR YOUNG LADIES 

Grape-fruit au Pommard 
Essence of Chicken in Cups 
Fried Whitebait and Oyster Crabs 
Tartar Sauce 
Spring Lamb Chops Beamaise Sauce 

Petits Pois a la Francaise 
Broiled Plover 
Romaine Salade J; if 

Omelette Souffle al a Vanille 



I ; DINNER FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN 

I'' ; ' ■: 

I I Oysters 

Cream of Celery 
Paupiettes of Trout au Vin Blanc 

Cucumbers 
Bouchees de Champignons Frais 
Filet de Boeuf Pique Milanaise 
Pommes de Terre Parisienne 

Haricots Verts Frais 

Ris de Veau a la Maryland 

Asparagus Hollandaise Sauce 

Poulet de Serre Roti 

Salade Escaroles 

Ramequins de Fromage 

Glaces Fantaisie 
Cafe Gateaux Varies 



i 



ii 



ar^ — )S 



m 



■M!i-v«>n;>»u('T« 11 




®> CHAFING DISHES 



GENTLEMEN'S DINNER 

Canapes de Caviar 

Oysters 

Clear Mock-turtle au Madere 

Smelts Saute au Berre 

Tomatoes Ciboulettes 

Mousse of Virginia Ham Champagne Sauce 

Saddle of Mutton 

Flageolet au Beurre 

Pommes Chateau 

Breast of Chicken Sam Ward 

Terrapin Maryland 

Sorbet au Kirsch 

Canard Sauvage 

Salade de Celery 

Croquettes de Fromage 

Hombiere aux Marrons 

Gateaux Assortes 

Fruits Cafe 



I; 



^ •• < s 



f 




I' \l 

i> 'l 

I: n 



FOUR MENUS FOR SMALL CARD PARTIES 

Sufficient for four people 
I. 

BAKED AND DEVILLED LOBSTER 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK 
I ! j I CELERY AND APPLE SALAD 

I ! if CREAM CHEESE AND TOASTED CRACKERS 

BAKED AND DEVttLED LOBSTER <^ 
Split two live lobsters and open the claws. Take out the 
tomaly, break it up with a spoon, and add to it a teaspoon- 
ful of English mustard, two table-spoonfuls of Worces- 
tershire sauce, a little salt and cayenne pepper, and mix 
up to a paste. Season the lobsters with salt, put them in a 
baking tin and bake in a hot oven for about twelve 
minutes. Then cover the split lobsters with this prepara- 
tion, also the opened claws. Sprinkle some bread crumbs 
over the whole, add a little drawn butter and bake for 
another five minutes in the oven. Serve with sliced 
lemons. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK ^ 
Scramble four eggs in the usual way, adding a few drops 
of Worcestershire sauce. Toast four pieces of bread and 
trim them to an oval shape about three inches long and 
two inches wide. Save the small pieces left from the 
trimming. Spread anchovy paste or anchovy butter on the 
oval pieces and on top of this place the scrambled eggs. 
From the small pieces of toast make eight little triangles 
and place upright in the scrambled eggs, on each end of 
the oval pieces, imitating the head and tail of a bird. Serve 
hot. 

CELERY AND APPLE SALAD ^ 
Cut two apples and two stalks of celery in small cubes. 
Mix them together well and add three table-spoonfuls of 
well-seasoned mayonnaise. Place in a dish garnished 
with lettuce leaves, and serve with the cream cheese and 

I toasted crackers. 

I 99 

» ' ^g 




I 



LOUIS* SALADS 



II. 



OYSTERS FRIED IN CRUMBS 
BROILED LAMB KIDNEY AND BACON 
TOASTED CHEESE 

OYSTERS FREED IN CRUMBS ^S5S 
Heat twenty oysters in their own liquid just enough to 
stiffen the oysters, drain them well, then roll in flour, dip 
in beaten eggs and then in bread crumbs or cracker dust. 
Try to give them their natural shape and fry them in hot 
fat or butter, serve with pieces of lemon, and dish them 
up on a napkin. 

BROILED LAMB KIDNEY AND BACON ^ 

Split four lamb kidneys three-quarters through and stick 
a toothpick across them so as to keep them stretched open 
and broil them on a brisk fire. Toast four small pieces of 
bread cut roimd, about the size of the kidney. Butter the 
toast, place a kidney on each piece, put a small piece of 
parsley butter in the cavity of the kidney and surround 
the whole with thin strips of broiled or fried bacon. 
(Parsley butter, called beurre maitre d'hotel in French, is 
simply good table butter mixed with a little salt, pepper, 
lemon juice and chopped parsley.) 

TOASTED CHEESE ^55 

Cut four slices of bread four inches square, toast and 
' butter them. Cut four slices of rarebit cheese the same 
size, put them on top of the toast and bake in the oven 
till the cheese is thoroughly melted. Serve hot. A little 
ready mixed English mustard spread on the buttered 
toast will make the dish more spicy. 



J. 



HEl«KAeilS'SeOHKiVI«tlKUW»»»i)l«JMI 




■sfon.'K'aMiaMW'iiBaarM B i Mm Mng 




<8l CHAFING DISHES 

nL 

STEWED TRIPE CREOLE 

BEEFSTEAK SANDWICH WITH MARROW 

WELSH RAREBIT 

STEWED TRIPE CREOLE <5S 
Take one green pepper, one onion and two mushrooms, 
cut them in small cubes, and fry with a piece of butter the 
size of an egg till nicely coloured. Add to this one pound 
of honeycomb tripe cut in long narrow slices, moisten 
with a glass of white wine and let boil for ten minutes, 
then add one-half a gill of tomato ketchup, one finely 
chopped pimento, a little chopped parsley, and salt to 
taste, let cook for another five minutes and serve in a 
covered dish. 

BEEFSTEAK SANDWICH WITH MARROW ^ 
Make eight slices of toast. Broil a small sirloin steak and 
parboil about two ounces of marrow of beef. Chop the 
marrow and spread on four pieces of toast, cut the steak 
in very thin small slices and cover the marrow with it, 
spread a little mustard on the other four slices of toast 
and cover the meat so as to finish the sandwich. Place 
in the oven for a few minutes so as to serve hot. Season 
with salt and black pepper. 

WELSH RAREBIT ^ 
Mix together in the chafing dish one wine-glassful of ale, 
one teaspoonf ul of Worcestershire sauce, one-half tea- 
spoonful of English mustard. Then add one-half a 
pound of cheese cut fine, season with salt, black and 
cayenne pepper. When the liquid gets boiling hot and 
the cheese begins to melt stir it up vigorously with a 
spoon so it will become very smooth, let it come to a boil, 
stirring it all the time. Then pour it over some toasted 
bread, plain or buttered. Crackers can be substituted 
if no toast is on hand. If the rarebit is wanted short 
(not stringy), the yolk of an egg can be added at the last 
moment. 

lOI 

» -jS 



8, 




h il 



11 •! 



LOUIS* SALADS 



IV. 

FINNAN-HADDIE A LA CREME 
BROILED QUAIL ON TOAST 
ji WINDSOR SANDWICHES 

i ; FINNAN-HADDIE A LA CREME ^£ 

I 
1 1 Parboil half a smoked haddock, break in pieces free from 

U skin and bones and put in a saucepan with a cup of 
cream. Let boil, and thicken with one teaspoonful of 
diluted corn-starch. When boiling season with salt and 

if pepper. Serve on toast. 



9' 



BROILED QUAIL ON TOAST ^£ 

Split four quail, season and butter them, and broil till 
done. Put each bird on a piece of toast, and pour a little 
melted butter over it. Serve with watercress. 

WINDSOR SANDWICHES ^ 

Take four table-spoonfuls of finely chopped chicken, the 
same quantity of chopped ham and two of chopped olives. 
Mix together with two table-spoonfuls of mayotmaise 
dressing. Spread this preparation on four slices of toast 
and cover with other pieces of toast. 



f 



m 





fclCiW(iVlJ»r<K**SV>!I'j'tC--r-J-.-r'."JT/iU'»'ai 



9W ■itnif»n-VJUJ»aH'^.9^'mmi 



for §mv €>i(»n mecetpt0 



if 





m/tmntijaifei^Ksis^ i'-jcj:^/^ 



■MACrtfJMOIMUtaH 



for ^our €>iDn Eeceiptjs 




^ 



& 



m^inisiiHi'iSfiasm 



\r' 



fov pom €>tDn Bece(pt0 



ii \l 



?! 







Is' 

SI 



i ii 




VmkS.. 'MSiBimmtisKrncArarifi^em^iWiim 



: -i-)aiia^»tmni'9t Ait! i miBit mtl»^ 




!fot ^mx flDtun mecefptjj 



aizz: ^s 




siMSmw^bea-iat'S^tMimimtvi'm^iew^iemets mn mm m Hwm eammmumn mw m iii . - - ■^vft-t'omao' 



'^K 



for pour Ottjn mai^t^ 




!! 



a> ZZZIB 




INDEX 



CANAPEES 
Batons 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 
Canape 



de Sardine 

a I'Allemande 

a I'Indienne 

a la Reine 

a la Russe 

Baltimore 

Belmont 

Careme . 

Demidoff 

Modeme 

Nantaise 

Norwegian 

Suedoise 

Virginia 

Whitney 




CHAFING DISHES . 

Chicken .... 

Chicken and Mushroom Regence 

Creamed Chicken 

Creamed Chicken with Rice 

Curry of Chicken, Bombay Style 

How to Use the Chafing Dish 

Shell Fish .... 
Clams a la Creole 
Clams a la Poulette 
Curry of Lobster 
Fried Lobster in Crumbs 
Lobster in Cream 
Minced Lobster on Toast 
Oyster Crabs and Sweetbread a la 
Oyster Crabs Astoria . 
Oysters a la Neuburg . 
Oysters a la Poulette . 
Oysters a la Somerset . 
Oyster Stew 

Oyster Stew, Philadelphia Style 
Panned Clams 
Paimed Oysters . 

Miscellaneous 
Golden Buck 

Minced Mushrooms, Virginia Style 
109 



Gourmet 



9 
12 

13 
13 
12 
II 
15 
13 
II 
II 
12 

13 

12 

14 
13 
14 

21 
29 
29 
29 
29 
29 

23 

25 
26 
26 

27 
28 
28 
28 
27 
27 
26 

25 

25 

25 

25 
27 
25 

31 
32 
31 



i 



ail! 


i — ~~ 


....^ 


g 




^*-"^ 


"1 


4 




INDEX 






Mushrooms in Cream 31 




il i 


Welsh Rarebit . 
Yorkshire Buck . 

1 EGGS .... 
Beacon Omelet . 
Eggs a I'Argenteuil 
Eggs a la Benedict 
Eggs a la Coquelicot . 
Eggs a la Meyerbeer . 
Eggs a la Momay 
Eggs a rOseille or Sorrel 
Eggs Andalouse 
Eggs Fine Herbs 








31 
32 

43 

so 
46 
48 

49 
48 
48 

47 
46 


i 










46 






Eggs Marquise . 








47 






Eggs Portugaise 








47 




Eggs Ravigotte . 








46 






Eggs Robinson . 
Eggs St. Germain 
Eggs Soubisse . 








47 
47 
45 






Eggs Villeroi 
Omelette Celestine 
Scrambled Eggs Chasseur 








46 
49 
4S 






Scrambled Eggs, Quaker Style 






49 






Scrambled Eggs with Fresh Mushrooms 




45 






Scrambled Eggs with Green Peppers 




45 






Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes . 




45 






Tobasco Eggs 




49 




1 


i FOUR FAVOURITE DISHES . 

l Chicken en Casserole .... 
Mushrooms under Glass Cover 
Oeufs a la Neige, or Floating Island 
Omelette Souffle .... 




79 
81 
82 
81 
82 






FOUR MENUS FOR SMALL CARD PARTIES . 


97 






FRUIT DESSERTS 


73 






Bananas au Cerise 




76 




1 


Blackberries au Cassis 




77 






Blueberries au Vermouth 




78 






Cantaloupe Whitney .... 




76 






Cherries au Rum 




76 






Creme au Kirsch .... 




76 






Creme aux Almonds .... 




76 






Figs au Rum .... 




78 






Gooseberries au Maraschino 




77 






Gooseberry Fool 




77 






Grape-Fruit .... 




75 






Macedoine of Fruit Chaimcey Olcott 




76 






Oranges 




75 






Peaches au Bordeaux . 




75 






Peaches au Kirsch 




78 






Pears au Vin Blanc 




75 






Pineapple 




. 75 




sE 


no 1 



m 



INDEX 




I 



Raisons au Rum 
Raspberries au Vin Blanc . 
Raspberry Tartlet Meringue 
Strawberries a la Romaine . 
Strawberries au Kirsch 
Watermelon au Champagne 

HINTS ON CARVING 
Ham 

Leg of Lamb or Mutton 
Roast Chicken . 
Roast Goose 
Roast Turkey 
Saddle of Mutton or Lamb 
Wild Duck 

HORS D'OEUVRES . 
Anchovies Melba 
Devilled Sardines on Toast 
Stuffed Celery . 
Thon Marine and Lettuce 



HOW DIFFERENT SALADS ARE MADE AND 
SERVED 

HOW TO MAKE A BILL OF FARE OR MENU . 

HOW TO USE THE CHAFING DISH 



RELISHES .... 
Chow-Chow 
English Mustard 
Home-made French Dressing 
Home-made French Mustard 
Horseradish 
Vegetable Relish 
Vinegar for Home Use 



SALADS 

Alsatian Salad . 
Anchovy Salad . 
Asperges Lothian 
Baker's Island Salad . 
Celery and Apple a la Parker 
Celery Richardson . , . 
Cheese Salad . . ' . 
Chiffonade or Panache Salad 
Cream Cheese Salad . 
Cucumbers Fine Herbs 



75 
77 
77 
77 
75 
76 

85 
89 
88 

87 
88 

87 
88 
88 

17 
19 
19 
19 
19 



53 

91 

23 

39 
41 
42 
42 
41 
41 
41 
42 

51 
56 

57 
62 
61 

59 
62 

56 
55 
55 
60 



Mow Different Salads Are Made and Served 53 

Imperial Salad 57 

Macedoine de Fruit au Marasquin, or Fruit 

Salad with Maraschino .... 59 



t 



E 



s 


n=izi_^: 1 


e 


s 


INDEX 


I 




Marliave Salad 55 






Nest Egg Salad . 








. 56 






Pond Lily Salad . 








. 58 






Potato Salad 








- 56 




1 


Robinson Crusoe Salad 
Romaine Salad . 








57 




1 








- 55 




i 


Royal Salad 








- 58 




1 


Salade aux Sardine 








. 61 




1 


Salade de Boeuf 








. 59 






Salade de Veau . 








. 60 






Salade Francis . 








59 




1 


Salade Gordon . 








. 62 






Salade Hollande . 








57 






Salade Japonaise 








61 






Salade Louis 








56 






Salade Russe 








57 






Salsifis Salad 








61 






Sherry Salad 








58 






Summer Salad . 








55 






Tomatoes a la Gray , 








60 






Tomatoes Taylor 








61 






Touraine Salad . 








57 






Vegetable Salad . 








58 






Waldorf Salad . 








58 




1 


i White Bean Salad 








60 




; Winter Salad 








55 




1; |f SANDWICHES 








67 




1: i ; Anchovy Sandwiches . 








71 






Caviar Sandwiches 








71 






Club Sandwich . 








69 






Creole Sandwiches 








70 






Dubney Sandwiches . 








70 




Il Egg and Lettuce Sandwich . 






70 




1 |l Melba Sandwiches 






72 




1 il Neuchatel Sandwiches 






71 




1 j H Puree of Sardines and Egg S 


andwiches . 




71 




il : 1 Sandwich au Foie Gras 






71 




Sardine Sandwiches 






69 




; Windsor Sandwiches . 


• 






70 






SAUCES .... 








33 






Hollandaise Sauce 








35 






Mayonnaise Sauce 








35 






Sauce Beamaise 








36 






Sauce Bordelaise 








36 






Sauce Italienne . 








37 






Sauce Ravigotte 








35 






Sauce Remoulade 








35 






Sauce Robert or Mustard Sauce . 




37 






Tartar Sauce 




35 






SIMPLE DISHES MADE WITH CHEESE . 




63 






Cheese Croquettes .... 




65 






Cheese Souffle au Parmesan 

112 




65 








^ 


SS 


f 4 


1 




INDEX 

Creme a PEgan 66 

Creme au Bar le Due . ..." 66 

Ramequins of Cheese . ..." 65 

Roquefort au Port 66 




i 




"3 



»i^tWiiiniiiiiiiiiBW 



d 




"^r 



sa^^ 



4 







SALADS and CHAFING 
DISHES 

By LOUIS MUCKENSTURM 

This is really the work of three masters in the art, two of 
whom are head chefs at the principal clubs of Boston and the 
third holding a responsible position in a leading Bohemian re- 
sort. The receipts are new and prepared purposely for this 
book. The quantities given in each receipt are for a small 
given number of people, a feature not to be found in any other 
work of a similar nature. Printed in two colors on buff paper. 
Oblong. Bound in cartridge-paper. Pricey 50^^!^^^ 

Full cloth, side and back stamped in inks. $1.00 



LOUIS' 

MIXED DRINKS 

WITH HINTS FOR THE CARE AND 
SERVING OF WINES 

By LOUIS MUCKENSTURM 

In this timely and suggestive volume, the work of the above 
epicures, there is not only a list of how to make and serve 
mixed drinks, but there is an important contribution on the care 
and serving of wines which will be of service in the private fam- 
ily, as well as to the restaurateur. Uniform with above, oblong. 
Bound in cartridge-paper. Price, 50 cents 

Full cloth, side and back stamped in inks. $1.00 

'S. 




!^" 





&j^ nffA\f*Xtmt^Mmitli 



P^^^ 




n 



m 



ar »aw n iwu i '» i wam n 



MnsMVi^neiinifi 



^ 



