TX 715 
.B267 
Copy 1 



TESTED RECIPES 

for the 

MODEBN HOSTESS 




D'AISY WILSON BARNET 



TESTED RECIPES 

for the 

MODERN HOSTESS 



A Compilation of Choice Recipes Selected 
from Various Sources 



By 

Daisy Wilson Barnet 



PRICE 50 CENTS 



ENDORSED BY THE SCHOOL OF DOMESTIC ARTS 
AND SCIENCE. 39 STATE STREET. CHICAGO 



Regan Printing House, Chicago 



'<^^ 



LIBRARY of CONGRESS 


Two Copies Received 

OCl 24 1906 


/Popyfight Entry 

CLAS^ a, XXC, NO. 

COPY B. 



Copyright 1906 
DAISY WILSON BARNET. 



/ 



To Mrs. Lynden Evans, President of the 
Chicago School of Domestic Arts and 
Science, 

and 

The Pupils, past and present, whose in- 
terest in Domestic Science will prolong life, 
andmake it happier, this book is cordially 
dedicated. 

DAISY WILSON BARNET 



I 



Scientific cookery demands a uniform standard of 
measurements, consequently all measurements in the 
following recipes are taken LEVEL. Kindly bear this 
in mind and avoid mistakes. 



CANAPES. 

Canape of Caviare, Egg and Cucumber. 

Butter rounds of Boston brown bread; press upon them 
rings of hard boiled egg whites. Fill the ring with a mixture 
of I teaspoon minced onion, i tablespoon caviare, i tablespoon 
soft butter and 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. On top place 
a slice of cucumber dipped in French dressing. 



Caviare Canape. 

Toast slices of bread and cut them into strips 4 inches 
long and 2 inches wide. Spread with the following mixture: 
I tablespoon caviare, i tablespoon soft butter, cayenne, i tea- 
spoon grated onion, juice of j4 lemon. Serve with a radish on 
each plate. 



Canape, Indian Style. 

% cup cooked ham. J4 cup butter. 

34 cup cooked chicken. ^ teaspoon curry. 

I tablespoon apple chutney. Salt and pepper. 
Pound ingredients in a mortar, pass through a sieve, and 
spread on rounds of bread, fried and cooled. Top off with an 
olive. 



Tomato Canape. * 

2 large tomatoes. i tablespoon butter. 

I cup mayonnaise. i tablespoon anchovy paste. 

Spread rounds of fried bread (when cold) with the anchovy 
paste and butter rubbed together. Lay a slice of tomato on 
each and top with mayonnaise. 



Lobster Canap6. 

I live lobster. 4 tablespoons flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 6 slices bread, fried. 

A little cayenne. 8 tablespoons grated cheese. 

4 tablespoons butter. 3^2 cup white broth. 

2 tablespoons fine chopped (Parmesan cheese is best.) 

onion. 

Plunge lobster into boiling water and cook one-half hour. 
Put 2 tablespoons of butter in frying-pan, add the chopped 
onion, cook 5 minutes without browning; add 2 tablespoons 
of flour, stir, and cook 2 minutes; add one-half cup white 
broth ; add i pint of lobster meat, and cook 8 minutes. Spread 
the mixture on the crustless rounds of fried bread. 

Now melt 2 level tablespoons of butter, add the same of 
flour, cook and stir. Remove from fire, add the cheese. Mix 
and form into little balls. Place one in center of each canape, 
pressing a little. Put the canapes in the oven and bake a deli- 
cate brown, about 10 minutes. Serve at once. 



Canape of Olives and Pimientos. 

I tablespoon caviare. Cayenne. 

(or anchovy paste). Pimolas. 



I tablespoon soft butter. >^ can pimientos. 

Juice of Yi lemon. (Mexican red peppers). 

Fry rounds of bread and allow to cool. Spread lightly 
with the caviare and butter rubbed together, and seasoned with 
the cayenne and lemon juice. Place a nut in the center of 
each and sliced pimolas around the edge, arranging strips of 
pimientos like the spokes of a wheel, from the nut to the 
pimolas. 



Cucumber Relish. 

Select fresh cucumbers. Cut them across the middle, and 
shave a slice off each round end, that they may stand upright. 
Scoop out the inside, not too close to the rind, and chop it 
with one-half its bulk of onion. Moisten with French dress- 
ing, fill the cucumber cups, and lay a few nasturtiums beside 
the tall green cups. 



Oyster Cocktail. 

Juice of 2 lemons. i cup strained oyster liquor. 

5^2 teaspoon onion juice. 4 tablespoons tomato catsup. 

^ grated cucumber. i tablespoon green pepper 

I tablespoon Worcestershire vinegar. 

sauce. Salt to taste. 

Drain the oysters free from shell and their own liquor, re- 
serving I cupful. Mix all ingredients (except the grated 
cucumber and onion juice) and pour over the chilled oysters 
one-half hour before serving. At time of serving, put 5 small 
oysters in each glass cup, add i tablespoon of the sauce, and 
garnish with i tablespoon of grated cucumber seasoned with 
the onion juice, salt and pepper. (Avoid horseradish, as it 
destroys the delicate oyster flavor.) 



Oyster Cocktail No. 2. • 

4 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, i tablespoon Darwin's salad 
I cupful strained oyster vinegar. 

liquor. Salt to taste. 

I tablespoon green pepper 

vinegar. 
Mix the cocktail, and pour over the oysters at time of serv- 
ing. 



t 



New York Oyster Cocktail. 



I tablespoon finely chopped 
shollot. 
I teaspoon ful chopped 

olives. 
% teaspoon salt. 
Mix and serve. 



]4> teaspoon white pepper. 
2 teaspoons fresh lime 

juice. 
5 tablespoonfuls tarragon 

vinegar. 



All measurements are level. 



SOUPS. 

Cream soups are damty, delicious, and nourishing. The 
same rule will serve alike for celery, asparagus, peas, spinach, 
potato, cabbage, turnips and parsnips. The vegetables may 
be freshly prepared, or remnants may be utilized by adding 
I pint of strained vegetable pulp to i quart of rich "white 
sauce." The yolks of 2 eggs add greater richness and color, 
and if they are used omit ^ the flour. 



Corn Soup. 

I can of corn ("B. & M.") 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

I pt. boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

I qt. of milk. i teaspoonful salt. 

I slice of onion. i^ teaspoonful sugar. 

^ teaspoonful white pepper. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Chop the corn fine, add boiling water and simmer 20 min- 
utes. Rub through a sieve. Scald the milk with the onion. 
Remove the onion and add milk to the corn. Bind with the 
flour and butter, creamed together, and a little milk added to 
dilute it, lastly the seasoning. Beat the 2 yolks, and add them 
after the soup is removed from the fire. 



GreenTPea Soup. 

Yi pk. peas. y^ teaspoonful salt. 

I doz. spinach leaves. i^ teaspoonful sugar. 

1 head lettuce. ^ a cucumber. 

34 teaspoonful white pepper. A slight grating of nutmeg. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
I pt. of milk. 

Shell the peas, cover with cold water, and set aside. Break 
up the pods and put them, with the spinach leaves, into a 
kettle with i quart of boiling water and i pint of stock, and 
allow them to simmer i^ hour. Add i head of sliced leaf 
lettuce, salt and sugar, and boil until spinach and lettuce are 
pulpy. Rub through a sieve. Boil the peas and cucumber 
in a little salt water, mash and press through a sieve. Mix 
the two pulps, add seasonings, the milk and the thickening. 



Green Pea Soup No. 2. ^ 

A mock green pea soup may be made of White Sauce and 
mashed potato, colored with Price's Coloring Liquid. 



Salsify Soup. 

I bunch oyster plant. 6 whole allspice. 

1 pt. milk. 34 blade of mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. Yz a bay leaf. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Scrape and slice the salsify and drop immediately into cold 
water, to which add 34 cup vinegar, to prevent discoloration. 
When all is ready place in boiling water, slightly salted, and 
boil until tender, then add i pint of milk (without draining 
ofif the water). Rub the flour and butter together, add a 
little of the liquid to dilute it, then pour it into the kettle. 
Add seasonings and stir until it thickens and let stand on 
back of stove lo minutes. Remove the bay leaf and serve. 



Fruit Soups. 

Fruit soups are made from fruit juices and water, slightly 
thickened with arrowroot, and sweetened or not, as one 
pleases. 



Orange Soup. 

I pint orange juice. 4 tablespoonfuls arrowroot. 

I pint water. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Bring the orange juice and water just to the boiling point. 



Add the arrowroot, moistened with a little cold Vv^ater. Cook 
for a moment and strain. Add the sugar and stand aside to 
cool. Put cracked ice in pretty glasses and pour over it the 
orange soup. Currant, pineapple, raspberry and cherry soups 
are all served the same way, as a first course at a luncheon. 



Black Bean Soup. 

1 pt. black beans. 3 slices each of turnips and 
3 qts. boiling water. carrot. 

34 blade of mace. i pt. stock. 

Celery, or celery seed. 6 whole cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 6 whole allspice. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. Pepper and salt. 

I small onion. 
Soak the beans over night. Pour off the water in the morn- 
ing, add 3 qts. boiling water, and boil gently 6 to 8 hours. 
When done there should be i qt. water. Add i pt. stock and 
seasoning. Fry the onion, carrot and turnip (cut fine) in 
butter. Take up when golden brown, add to soup, and in 
the same frying pan add flour and brown it in the butter. 
Add to soup and simmer i hour. Rub through a sieve. (It 
should be like thick cream.) Add pepper, salt, thin slices 
of lemon, and hard boiled egg. A glass of sherry is an im- 
provement. 



Julienne Soup. 

^2 cup each of carrots, tur- i pt. soup stock, 

nips, onions, beets Salt and pepper, 
and celery. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

6 string beans. i cup peas. 

Cut the string beans into tiny rings, crosswise, and the 



other vegetables into even dice. Fry the onion and carrot in 
the butter, add them to the other vegetables, cover with boiling 
water and cook until tender. Add soup stock (not draining 
off the water the vegetables were cooked in), peas and season- 
ing. Cook 10 minutes and serve. 



Lentil Soup. 

iy2 cups lentils. 5^ an onion. 

54 teaspoon celery seed. 4 whole cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. %. bay leaf. 

I tablespoonful flour. Pepper and salt. 

Soak the lentils over night. Drain the next morning, cover 
with cold water and bring just to a boil. Drain off the water 
and throw away. To the lentils add i^ qts. fresh water, and 
simmer 3 hours, then add the onion and seasoning, and cook 
I hour more. Rub through colander, mashing well, then 
through a sieve. Return it to the fire, add the flour and butter, 
creamed together, and diluted with a little of the soup. This 
has meat value, and is delicious. 



Okra Soup. 

Fry 6 slices of onion and 8 or 10 okra pods (cut in two 
lengthwise) a golden brown. Put in a kettle and pour over 
I qt. boiling water, slightly salted. Simmer until tender, add 
I pt. of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls boiled rice. 



Palestine Soup. 

1 lb. Jerusalem artichokes. i qt. water. 

2 onions. i sprig of parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. A little celery, salt and white 

I tablespoonful of flour. pepper. 

I pt. boiling milk or cream. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Scrape i lb. of Jerusalem artichokes, clean, and cut in slices. 
Fry the sliced onions in the butter, and when a golden color 
add the flour and water. Add the artichokes, parsley, and 
celery. Boil until the vegetables are soft, then strain through 
a sieve. Return to the fire, add salt, pepper and boiling cream, 
or milk. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs and place them in the tureen, 
pouring the scalding soup over them. vServe with croutons, or 
crisps. 



Pistachio Soup. 

I pt. milk. I pt. spinach leaves. 

I oz. chopped pistachio 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

nuts. 2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot. 

y2 teaspoonful almond paste. Salt and white pepper. 

Put I pt. of milk over the fire in a double boiler and add 
the chopped nuts (made as fine as powder) and the almond 
paste. Mix well and boil 20 minutes. Pick over i pt. of fresh 
spinach, removing stems and ribs of the leaves, and boil what 
is left in a very little salted water. When tender, drain and 
chop fine, then press to a pulp with a potato masher. Add it 
to the soup, mix, then add the butter. Moisten a tablespoon 
of arrowroot with a little cold water, add a little of the hot 
liquid to it, and then stir into the soup and cook until it is as 
thick as thin cream. Add pepper and salt, and serve. 



Measurements are level. 



ENTREES. • 

Chicken, a la Terrapin. 

Cut up a cold boiled chicken into small pieces, removing 
all skin and gristle. Put into a skillet with Yz pt. of cream. 
As soon as warm add 2 tablespoons of butter creamed together 
with 2 tablespoons of flour. Season with cayenne and salt. 
Add 3 chopped hard boiled eggs, and when it boils stir in a 
large wine glass of sherry. Simmer 5 minutes, and add an- 
other glass of wine and serve. 



Shrimps, a la Creole. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 cups tomato pulp. 

I small onion, chopped. 5^ teaspoon celery salt. 

54 green or red pepper, i pt. fresh shrimps. 

chopped fine. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Fry onion in butter until yellow, add flour and rub smooth, 
pour in the tomatoes, slowly, then the cleaned shrimps, broken 
into bits. When the sauce has thickened and the shrimps are 
heated, serve on toast. Crab meat may be used the same way. 



Chicken, Creole Style. 

I chicken. i onion. 

I slice of boiled ham. i cup water. 

I green pepper. i can of peas. 

Salt and pepper. 2 cups tomato sauce. 

Wipe the pieces of chicken with a damp cloth and put in a 
casserole, with the ham, chopped pepper ( from which the seeds 
and white parts have been removed), onion, sliced, and i cup 



of water. When meat is tender and ready to fall from the 
bones, take up the chicken and keep it hot. Strain the gravy, 
add salt, tomato sauce and peas, and pour over the chicken. 



Shad Roe, with Peas. 

Boil the roe, in boiling salted water, lo minutes, adding i 
sliced onion. Drain carefully. Drop the roe into boiling salted 
water and simmer 20 minutes. Remove and drain. Butter 
a tin plate and lay the drained roe upon it. Dredge with salt 
and pepper and spread with soft butter; dredge thickly with 
flour. Bake >^ hour, basting often with a thin mixture of 
flour, water, butter, pepper and salt. 

Cook a pint (or i can) of young green peas till tender, with 
I teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, and >^ teaspoonful of 
butter. Then add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream and cook 2 min- 
utes longer. Place the roe in center of the hot platter and turn 
the peas around it. 



Cannelon 0! Beef. 

Chop cold beef, as per hash, adding a little onion, i ^gg, 
beaten light, pepper and salt, and a little gravy. Make large 
rolls of this, like sausages, 6 inches long, roll up in greased 
wax paper, tucking the ends over several times. Bake 20 min- 
utes and serve with gravy poured over. 



Oyster Shortcake. 

Make a shortcake and bake on pie plates. Put i qt. of 
oysters over the fire with 3^ cup of milk and ^4 cup of water, 



2 teaspoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper. Thicken with i 
tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in the water. When 
the shortcakes are baked, split and spread with the oysters 
between and over the top. Make extra White Sauce if 
needed. 



Calf's Liver, Marinated. 

2 onions. Pepper and salt. 

4 slices salt pork. Vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

6 tablespoonfuls olive oil. i glass of claret. 

I calf's liver, larded. 

Slice the onions and lay in the bottom of a crock, and on 
top of them place the slices of pork, then the larded liver, 
sprinkled with pepper and salt, and pour on 6 tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil and 3 of vinegar. Set in a cool place for 24 hours, 
turning it twice during this time. Put in a kettle the entire 
contents of the crock, cover closely and simmer very, very 
gently for 2 hours. When about done add i glass of claret. 
Serve hot or cold. Cold is better. 



Pork Tenderloin and Mushrooms. 

Plunge the whole round tenderloin into boiling water, to 
cover, in a deep skillet, and let it boil hard 2 minutes, then 
reduce the heat and let it simmer, closely covered, for ^ of 
an hour. Then pour off the water and keep it for the gravy. 
Put 4 tablespoonfuls of butter, or lard, in the skillet and fry the 
tenderloin, closely covered, until a rich brown. When done 
remove to a hot platter and keep warm. Add 4 tablespoonfuls 
of flour to lard in skillet, rubbing it smooth ; then pour in grad- 
ually enough of the reserved juice to make gravy of the proper 



consistency. Add mushrooms, previously prepared, as follows : 
Yz lb. mushrooms. Salt and pepper. 

I tablespoonful butter. 
Rinse off the mushrooms, peel the tops and stems and break 
into pieces. Place in a stew pan, sprinkle lightly with pepper 
and salt, and let them stand i hour until their juice is drawn 
out, then add butter and stew the mushrooms in their juice ^ 
hour. Add to above gravy and pour over tenderloin. 



A FRENCH RECIPE. 
Chicken en Casserole. 

Take a tender broiling chicken, wash dry, and cut into four 
pieces. Put into an earthen casserole with a generous piece 
of butter on each. Put on the cover and stand the dish in a 
hot oven for an houi. Have ready as many potatoes as will 
be needed scooped into little balls with vegetable cutter. Fry 
them a golden brown, in deep fat. Make a mixture of chopped 
chives, salt, chopped parsley, red and black pepper, and a 
tablespoon of Kitchen Bouquet. A few minutes before serv- 
ing remove the chicken from the casserole and turn in the 
potatoes, the seasoning mixture, and a wine glass of Sauterne 
Madeira or Sherry. Stir thoroughly, return the chicken, baste 
it thoroughly with this gravy, and cook it 5 minutes to reheat. 
Serve it in the casserole. 



Ragout of Mutton. 

For 6 persons use 2 lbs. of mutton — the trimmings of a roast, 
chops, or any of the cheaper parts (as the shoulder). 
2 onions. 6 potatoes. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. Yi tablespoon salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. Ys, teaspoon pepper. • 

6 white turnips. i qt. of water. 

Free the mutton from fat and skin. Put the butter in a stew 
pan over a hot fire. When butter is hot add the mutton and 
cook until it is brown on all sides. Now take the meat from 
the pan, add the flour, stirring well until it is browned, then 
add the water, stirring constantly. When this sauce boils add 
the mutton, salt, pepper and the onions cut in slices. Cover 
the pan and simmer contents slowly for tw^o hours. At the 
end of this time add the turnips, cut in cubes, stirring the mix- 
ture well. Spread the cubes of potatoes on top, cover the stew 
pan and cook a trifle more rapidly. It will require ^ of an 
hour longer to finish the ragout. The French often employ 
veal or pork instead of mutton. The thing we cannot change 
is the method of cooking, ^vhich is always done slowly. 



Baked Brains. 

Soak for i hour in cold, salted water, changing the water 
several times. Parboil for 15 minutes. Plunge into ice water 
to blanch and remove all membrane. 

Cut each in two, lay in a baking pan, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge lightly with flour, add bits of butter, and a little 
water in the pan, basting frequently, until a light brown. They 
are as delicious as sweetbreads. 



Brain Omelet. 

Pour boiling water over a set of brains that have stood i 
hour in cold salt water. Let them remain in the boiling water 



10 minutes, then plunge into ice water to blanch them. Then 
scrape all the creamy, soft parts from the dark skin, add 4 
beaten eggs, cayenne, and salt. Fry in hot butter, fold, and 
serve, garnished with cress or parsley. 



Fish or Chicken Timbals. 

y2 cup milk. lYi teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 

y2 cup bread crumbs. 2 cups of chopped meat, fish. 

Whites of 5 eggs. or i can of salmon. 

I teaspoon ful of salt. 

White fish, fresh halibut, finnan haddie, or trout may be 
used. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk 10 minutes and cook until like 
mush. Add salt and pepper, chopped meat (or fish), lemon 
juice, and lastly, the beaten whites cut and folded in. Put 
paper in bottom of tin, and butter it, and the sides of the tin. 
Set in a pan of water and bake 15 minutes. Serve with White 
Sauce containing chopped, blanched almonds. This may be 
baked, in a loaf, for i hour. 



Filled Peppers. 

1 cup minced chicken, or i^^ cups bread crumbs. 

veal. 2 tablespoonfuls of hot 

2 tablespoonfuls of minced water. 

ham. I large tomato. 

2 slices of onion. i tablespoon butter. 

Salt, cayenne. i ^^g. 

I cup soup stock. 6 green peppers. 

Cut the stems from green peppers so they will stand. Cut 



off the opposite ends, remove seeds and white part, aivi ar- 
range them in a baking pan. 

Mix the chopped meat and bread crumbs (which have been 
wet with the hot water), the peeled tomato and onion, chopped 
fine, the butter, salt, cayenne and beaten egg, and fill the 
peppers. 

Pour the stock around the peppers, in the pan, and put ^ 
teaspoonful on top of each one. Bake 25 minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 



Potted Pigeons. 

Draw and clean. Break the legs, just above the feet, leaving 
enough below the joint to tic to the tail. Wash and wipe. 
Cover with vinegar spiced and flavored with onion and let 
them stand several hours. This makes them tender. Drain 
and wipe. Stuff if you like with bread, sage, pork and pepper, 
making it stiff enough to roll into balls. Stuff the pigeons 
with these. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Fry 5 or 6 
slices of salt pork, cut i large onion fine and fry it, in the fat. 
a light brown. Put the crisp pork in a stew pan, add the fried 
onion, then brown the pigeons all over, in the fat left in the 
pan. Put them in the stew pan on top the pork and onion, 
half cover with hot water, add a little pepper, salt, and a pinch 
of herbs tied in a cloth. Simmer very gently three hours. 
Remove the fat from the broth and thicken with flour and 
butter creamed together and diluted with a little of the broth. 



Stewed Hare. Delicious. 

2 rabbits. 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

I onion. i tablespoonful any catsup. 

I bay leaf. i teaspoonful salt, pepper. 



3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 tablespoonfnls of lemon 

3 cups of water. juice. 

Skin, clean, wash, disjoint, and roll in flour. Put butter in 
a pan, and when it is hot add the meat. Brown well, but do 
not bum. When it is brown on all sides, put it into a stew- 
pan and put into the frying pan such flour as remained after 
the meat was rolled in it. Stir until it gets smooth, then add 
the water, and boil 5 minutes. Pour this liquid over the meat, 
in the stew pan. Add the spice, salt, pepper, and whole onion. 
Cover closely and cook very gently 2 hours, then add lemon 
juice and catsup. Arrange on dish and pour on the gravy. 



Pate de Foie Gras. 

I calf's liver. i teaspoonful of made 

Butter. mustard. 

Speck of Cayenne. i teaspoonful of Worcester- 

Salt, shire sauce. 

y2 grated nutmeg. i tablcspoonful of onion 

Level saltspoon of ground water, 

cloves. 

Boil a calf's liver very slowly, in salted water, until exceed- 
ingly tender. In- another kettle boil the calf's tongue. Let 
them grow cold in the water in which they were boiled. 

The next day cut the liver into bits, and mash it into a paste, 
adding a little butter, as it is needed to make a paste. When 
quite soft work into it a speck of cayenne, a little salt, ^ a 
grated nutmeg, a level teaspoonful of ground cloves, i tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, i teaspoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, and i tablcspoonful of water in which an onion was 
gently steeped. Work the paste very thoroughly and pack in 
jelly glasses, putting in, occasionally, bits of the boiled tongue. 
Butter the glasses first and cover the paste with melted 



paraffine. Put in a cool place. It will keep all winter and 
makes a delicious luncheon or tea relish. 



Delicious Hash. 

Equal parts of meat and raw potatoes chopped fine. Add 
enough stock gravy or milk to moisten. Season with pepper, 
salt and a little minced onion. 

Butter a cold skillet and spread the hash in it, cover closely 
and bake ^ hour. When done turn out on a chop platter, or 
turn over double like an omelet, and garnish with parsley. 



Jellied Tongue and Veal. 

Take an ox tongue out of pickle and let it soak in cold 
water 12 hours. Boil it slowly until tender ij^ to 2 hours. 
Remove the skin and cut off all the root and slender tip. Have 
a breast of veal boned. Spread it out carefully, as flat as pos- 
sible, rub with salt and pepper. Lay the tongue in the center, 
and roll it up. Take a piece of thin muslin and wrap it 
securely around the veal and place it in an earthen jar large 
enough to just accommodate it. Add 6 whole cloves, i onion, 
I stalk of celery, a little parsley, salt, and 6 whole peppers. 
Cover with a cup of hot water, place a lid on the jar, and bake 
in a moderate oven about 3 hours, when remove from the 
water, put between two plates, under a weight, until cold. 

Strain the stock left in the jar, and color it, either a delicate 
yellow or pale green, with Dr. Price's vegetable coloring 
liquids. 

Pour half the colored stock into an oblong mould and let 
it harden. Remove the cloth from the veal, lay it on the jelly, 



in the mould, then pour in the remainder of the stock, and 
place in refrigerator to become hard. When about to serve 
remove from the mould and cut in thin slices with a sharp 
knife. 

The center (the tongue) will be pink, surrounded by the 
white (veal), the outside pale yellow, or green jelly. Garnish 
with pink radishes, a little parsley, and slices of lemon. 



Crab Olio. 

(A SOUTHERN RECIPE.) 

Scald and skin 6 large tomatoes and drain on a sieve until 
water is out. 

Chop fine the meat of four large, boiled crabs, the inside of 
an egg-plant which has been boiled, and the tomatoes. Add 
three eggs, slightly beaten, salt, pepper, and half a cup of 
bread crumbs. 

Heat through in two tablespoonfuls of butter, but do not 
brown it. Put the mixture in crab shells, or individual dishes, 
and cover with bread crumbs. Place in pan of water and bake 
15 minutes. 



Corn Padding. 

8 ears of corn. i teaspoonful of sugar. 

1 cup milk. ^ teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. 

Draw a sharp knife through each row of corn, then press 
from the cob with the back of the knife. Mix all together. 
Grease pudding dish, fill, and bake slowly ^ to ^ of an hour. 
Eat as a vegetable. 



Cream Chestnut Croquettes. 

50 Spanish chestnuts. 4 eggs. 

y2 cup of cream. ^ teaspoonful of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Shell the nuts and boil 15 minutes. Take up and remove 
the skins, and boil 15 minutes longer. Drain and mash. Add 
the butter and salt by degrees. Add the cream a little at a 
time, working it in well. Beat 3 of the eggs, and beat them 
into the other ingredients. Put the mixture in a double boiler 
and cook 8 or 10 minutes, stirring constantly. Spread it on a 
large platter to cool. When cold, butter the hands slightly 
and shape into balls, cones, or cylinders. Dip these into the 
fourth ^%^ beaten, then in fine bread crumbs. Fry 13^ minutes, 
to a light brown. Arrange on a warm napkin and serve im- 
mediatelv. 



Onion au Gratin. 

Scald the onions, chop rather coarse. Place in a baking 
dish, cover with Bechamel sauce, into which has been stirred a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Cover the tops with bread 
crumbs moistened with melted butter and a little grated cheese. 
Bake half an hour (or more). 



Sliced Baked Tomatoes. 

Slice fresh tomatoes and spread in layers in a baking dish. 
Sprinkle each layer with salt, pepper, curry powder, sugar 
and dots of butter, and lastly a layer of crumbs and butter. 
Bake until tomatoes are tender. Five minutes before taking 
out pour over them a cupful of whipped cream slightly sweet- 
ened. 



Fried Green Tomatoes. 

Cut a thin slice from top and bottom, then cut in 2 or 3 
slices (rather thick). Dip each in seasoned flour, and fry in 
4 tablespoonfuls of butter, half an hour or more. When done 
lift out and keep very hot. Put a large tablespoonful of flour in 
the pan, stirring until it browns. Add slowly i cup of milk. 
Cook smooth and pour over the tomatoes. 



Sweet Corn a TOriental. 

Strip the corn of all husks, place it in a porcelain or agate 
kettle, cover with sweet milk and let it boil 15 or 20 minutes. 
Never use a drop of water on it. 



Deviled Tomatoes. 

Take 6 tablespoonfuls of butter, >4 teaspoonful onion juice, 
I tablespoonful vinegar, i teaspoon sugar, 5^ teaspoon mustard, 
I teaspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne, and the yolks of 2 

eggs. 

Cut the ends off of 5 or 6 large tomatoes, slice and fry in 
4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Mix and blend the other ingredients and put them in a 
double boiler. Add the beaten yolks, just as you take the 
sauce from the fire. Turn over the tomatoes and serve hot. 



Baked Beets. 

Beets retain their sweet flavor to perfection if baked. Select 
large ones and turn them often in the oven, but do not use 



a fork, as that would let them bleed. Bake 3 to 3^ hours. 
Peel, slice, and season with butter, pepper and salt. 



Scalloped Cabbage. 

Cut the cabbage as for slaw, put it into boiling water, and 
when nearly cooked (about 20 minutes) add some salt. When 
tender drain and put into individual baking dishes. Pour over 
it White Sauce, then grated cheese, old and dry, and lastly, i 
cup of bread crumbs moistened with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, melted. Potatoes prepared in this way are excellent 
also. 



Parsnip Croquettes. 

Boil in salted water and then mash them. When cool add 
I tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt, and one beaten egg. 
Make into croquettes, rolled in dried bread crumbs, dip in 
beaten Qgg, then in crumbs again. Fry in wire basket, in deep 
fat, to a delicate golden yellow. 



Okra Gombo. 

3 tomatoes. i onion, sliced. 

8 okra pods. 2 cups celery. 

I sweet pepper. • 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

^2 cup water. Pepper and salt. 

Slice the okra and onion. Chop the tomatoes very little. 
Cut celery in ^-inch slices, and mince the green pepper, freed 
from seeds and white parts. Season, add water, and simmer 
^ of an hour. 



Baked Onions. 

Peel the onions and boil very slowly 15 minutes. Drain and 
arrange in a greased baking dish. Season with pepper and 
salt, and pour over a White Sauce to which a beaten tgg has 
been added. Sprinkle with fine crumbs and dot with butter. 
Bake, covered, for 20 minutes, then uncover and brown lightly. 



Crooked Neck Squash, 

Pare and cut in slices 2 inches thick, making rings. Dip each 
ring in seasoned flour and fry until tender. 



Cucumber Fritters. 

First cut off the ends to avoid the bitter part. Peel and 
grate, pressing out all the juice. Add ^ cup of rich cream, 
I cup of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter (melted), pepper and 
salt. Beat 4 eggs separately, add to the mixture and fry as 
fritters. 



Spanish Spaghetti. 

Fill a large kettle with water and when it boils violently 
put in 2 cupfuls of macaroni broken into inch lengths. Salt, 
and let it boil i hour. Drain and let cold water run over it to 
blanch it. Put >^ cup of smooth tomato sauce in a baking 
dish, then a layer of macaroni. Sprinkle with minced sweet 
green pepper, salt and grated cheese. Repeat layers and have 
cheese on top. Bake ^ of an hour. 



£gg-Plant and Cheese. • 

Boil 3 egg-plants and when tender peel and mash them, 
adding a thick slice of bread soaked in cold water. Fry in 
hot lard until the water disappears, seasoning with salt, pepper, 
parsley and minced onion. Put butter and grated cheese for 
first layer, then half of the egg-plants, adding another layer of 
cheese, then the remainder of the egg-plant, and finishing with 
a layer of cheese, bread crumbs and butter. Place in the oven 
10 minutes to brown lightly. 



£gg=PIant Supreme. 

Peel and cut in slices, sprinkle with salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Dredge with flour and fry very slowly in plenty of butter. 
Let them cook beyond the tender point — till the outsides be- 
come lightly crisped. During the frying of the egg-plant have 
large red tomatoes cut in halves baking in the oven, pulp side 
up, seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, and piled as high 
as possible with minced onion. Serve one on each slice of 
egg-plant. 



Pepper Salad. 

Select sweet peppers. Let them stand in ice water several 
hours. When crisp, remove the seeds through the stem end 
and cut across in thin even rings. Heap these in the center 
of a flat dish, with a border of crisp lettuce leaves, and pour 
over the peppers a thick mayonnaise seasoned with 5^ teaspoon 
Darwin's salad vinegar. 



Pineapple Salad. 

Slice or shred the pineapple, arrange on lettuce leaves. Ovei 
this pour mayonnaise, and scatter browned almonds on top. 



Grape Fruit Salad. 

Cut the grape fruit in two. Remove the pulp carefully with 
an orange spoon, reserving all the juice. Strain the fruit dry. 
Let the juice become cold and when ready to serve mix 3 
tablespoonfuls of it with 6 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, Yi tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of paprika, ^4 teaspoonful onion juice. 
Arrange fruit on lettuce and pour the dressing over it. 



Cgg-Plant Salad. 

Slice the contents of an egg-plant in very thin slices, and 
cut these into dice. Put them into a bowl with a teaspoon of 
salt, mix well and place a weight over them, and chill for two 
hours. Sprinkle another teaspoonful of salt inside the egg-plant 
to draw out the water, and chill it also. Cut into small dice 
some canned tunny fish, yi cup celery, 4 chopped hard boiled 
eggs, and ^ lb. blanched English walnuts. Make a highly 
seasoned French dressing, add the cut up egg-plant wiped 
dry. Fill the shell of the egg-plant with this salad. 



Banana Salad. 

Select red bananas, remove the skins, roll in mayonnaise 
and then in very finely chopped nuts of all kinds. A little 
mayonnaise is added and the bananas are served on lettuce 
leaves. 



Rice Charlotte. * 

2 level tablespoonfuls of rice. 5 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
Yi cup cold water. i^ teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

5^ cup cold milk. 5^ pt. heavy cream. 

4 sheets druggists' gelatine. 
Soak the rice in the cold water i hour, then rinse it well. 
Soak the gelatine i hour in the cold milk. Boil rice 40 minutes 
in double boiler, drain, add sugar and vanilla. Whip the cream 
stiff, and stir all together. Serve very cold. 



Cream Prune Pie. 

I lb. prunes. ^ cup of sugar. 

Cream. 4 tablespoonfuls of fine 

Whites of 2 eggs. sugar. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Wash the prunes and soak over night. Put in double boiler 
and simmer until tender. Stone and rub through colander, 
add sufficient juice to moisten. Allow i cup of cream to each 
cup of fruit pulp. Add the yolks of the eggs beaten light, and 
the Yz cup sugar. Line pie plate with crust, fill with the mix- 
ture, and bake in a moderate oven. Spread with meringue 
made of the 2 whites and 4 level tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
whipped together until stiff. Dust with dry sugar and return 
to oven (or broiler) to tint brown. 



French Charlotte. 

9 apples. Bread 2 days old. 

Y2 cup sugar. Grated peel of Y^ lemon. 



Juice of lemon. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I teacup water. 

Core and slice the apples, without peeling. Put them in a 
saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, j/^ cup of sugar, the juice of i lemon and i cup of 
Vv^ater. When soft rub through colander to remove skins. 
Butter a 3-pt. mould (or bread pan), cut very thin slices of 
bread, remove crusts, dip in melted butter. Fit these into the 
mould, allowing their edges to overlap a little. Line sides the 
same way. Fill with apple sauce. Cover with thin slices of 
bread and bake ^ of an hour. Turn out on a platter, laying 
the platter on the mould and then inverting it. Cream mav 
be served with it. Verv delicious. 



Bonnie Squash Pie. 

1 cup of cooked squash. l4 teaspoonful of ginger. 

2 level tablespoonfuls of i cup sugar. 

flour. 2 eggs. 

I tablespoonful of rose- i pt. rich milk. 

water. % teaspoonful of salt. 

I tablespoonful of brandy. Juice of i lemon. 
Rind of 3^ lemon grated. j4 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Stir the sugar, flour and salt together, add the rosewater, 
brandy, grated lemon rind, and the juice, cinnamon and ginger. 
Beat the eggs and add them, next the squash, and lastly the 
milk. Fill under crust with this mixture. Put in a hot oven 
for a few minutes, then turn gas down so the custard may 
cook slowly. 



AlPlain Charlotte. * 

% box gelatine. i pt. cream. 

I pt. smooth apple sauce. i doz. ladyfingers. 

Soak gelatine in ^ cup cold water ^^ hour, then add it to 
the apple sauce. As soon as the mixture begins to congeal, 
stir in carefully i pint of cream, whipped stiff. Line the mould 
with ladyfingers, pour in the mixture, and stand away to cool. 



Apple Shortcake. 

« 
lo apples, I teacup water. 

^ cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Juice of I lemon. A little cinnamon or 

Grated peel of 3^ lemon. nutmeg. 

Wash and quarter the apples without paring. Remove all 
bits of core with a knife. Put in stew pan, with i cup of 
water, cover tightly, and when they boil soft, press through 
colander to remove skins, add the butter, sugar, spice, lemon 
juice and rind. 

Make a rather plain pie crust, roll in 2 thin layers, placing 
one on top of the other, being careful not to press together. 
When baked, separate, and spread liberally with apple sauce 
between and on top. Serve with cream. If the nursery must 
be considered, make thin biscuits instead of pie crust, as fol- 
lows: 

Sift Swansdown flour and measure 23^ cupfuls and sift 
again with 2^ teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 3/2 tea- 
spoonful of salt. Add i tablespoonful of butter, and 2 of lard. 
Cut into the flour with a knife, add ^ cup of milk. Roll as thin 
as pie crust, cut like cookies, lay together in twos. When 
baked separate, fill and serve. 



Trilby Cream. 

I qt. whipped cream. Yz cup sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sherry. Yi lb. marshmallows. 
54 lb. chopped pecans. ^4 lb- candied cherries. 

Whip the cream stiff, add sherry, cut the marshmallows into 
quarters or slices. Mix together, put in a mould, pack in salt 
and ice for several hours. When serving, place the candied 
cherries on top. 



Macaroon Pudding. 

I doz. (stale) macaroons. 6 bananas. 

I qt. of milk. Yz teaspoonful almond 

I cup granulated sugar. extract. 

4 tablespoonfuls fine sugar. 4 eggs. 

Crumble the macaroons and spread a layer in a pudding 
dish, add a layer of bananas, sliced thin, lengthwise. Repeat 
three times and pour over this a custard made of the beaten 
yolks, milk and granulated sugar. Cook very slowly, standing 
the dish in pan of water until custard is just "set," and cover 
with meringue made of the pulverized sugar and extract. 
Brown lightly. 



Delicious Jellied Prunes. 

I lb. prunes. Juice of 2 oranges, 

i^ pints water. ^ box gelatine. 

I cup sugar. Yz cup cold water. 

Wash the prunes in several waters, rubbing them well be- 
tween the hands. Put them in a stew pan with i^ pints of 
water and simmer very gently for 2 hours, closely covered. 
Soak the gelatine Y^ hour in ^ cup cold water. Take up the 
prunes when tender and remove the stones carefully. Heat i 



pint of the juice, stir in the gelatine, and take from the fire. 
Stir until gelatine is dissolved, then add sugar and orange 
juice. Arrange prunes with cut sides toward inside of mould, 
pour in the strained juice and set away for 5 hours to harden. 
Serve with cream. 

Syrups from preserves, tutti frutti. or lemon juice may be 
used in place of the orange juice. 



Perfect Charlotte Russe. 

1 pt. whipping cream. Whites of 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of gelatine. 5^ cup powdered sugar. 
I cup cold water. i dozen ladyfingers. 

I teaspoonful vanilla. 20 Maraschino cherries. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water i hour. Whip stiff a pint 
of heavy cream, add sugar, vanilla and gelatine, lastly stir in 
lightly the beaten whites of 2 eggs. Grease jelly glasses with 
butter, line with split ladyfingers. Put three Maraschino cher- 
ries in each glass, fill with Charlotte, set the glasses on tin 
plates, and put in ice box for 6 hours. 



French Trifle. 

6 bananas. i wine glass white wine. 

,^/2 cup powdered sugar. i wine glass tepid water. 

I lump of sugar. 3 drops eau de cologne. 

I cup whipped cream. i doz. preserved violets. 

Put in a glass dish a layer of ice, well powdered with sugar, 
and upon this a layer of bananas peeled and sliced, again a 
handful of chopped ice, and sugar, repeating until the dish is 
as full as required. Pour upon the fruit a wine glass of white 
wine and a wine glass of tepid water in which you have 



dipped a lump of sugar that has absorbed 4 drops of almond 
extract, and another that has absorbed 3 drops of genuine eau 
de cologne. (In the right cologne you get the compressed ex- 
tract of rosemary and lemon thyme.) Mix well and garnish 
top with whipped cream and a few preserved violets. You will 
not detect the cologne, as with the other ingredients it unites 
to produce a subtle but delicious flavor. 



Roman Cream. 

Soak y2 box gelatine in ^ cup cold milk J/^ hour. 

Put 2 cups of milk in the double boiler and when it reaches 
the boiling point add the dissolved gelatine and stir until 
smooth. Let it boil up once. Remove from the fire and add 
the yolks of 3 eggs which have been creamed together with ^ 
cup of sugar. When cool add the 3 whites beaten very stiff, 
and lastly i teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a mould that 
has been wet in cold water. 



Peaches in Jelly. 

y2 box gelatine. 12 halves of peaches. 

2 cups sugar. Juice of i lemon. 

ij4 cups water. J4 cup boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine in i^ cup cold water i hour. Put i cup 
of water, and i cup of sugar on the fire, and let them come 
to a boil, removing the scum. Put in 12 halves of peaches, 
and let them remain i minute, then take them out very care- 
fully, not to break them, and pour the hot syrup over the gela- 
tine. Add the juice of i lemon, i cup of sugar and ^ cup of 
boiling water. Put these over the fire and stir until the gela- 



tine is dissolved. Lay the peaches in a mould and strain the 
hot jelly over them. Let stand 6 or 7 hours. 



Nut Patties. 

I cup powdered sugar. 3 yolks of eggs. 

3 whites of eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

I cup of raisins. i cup hickory nuts. 

Beat the 3 yolks and i white, adding i cup of powdered 
sugar gradually, then 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i cup chopped 
raisins and i cup finely chopped hickory nut meats. Line gem 
tins with pastry, rolled thin, fill Yz full with the mixture, bake 
about 30 minutes, and when done cover with meringue made 
with 2 whites and 4 level tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
beaten stiff. Brown lightly. 

The pastry may be cut in squares, i tablespoonful of mixture 
put in the center, the edges wet slightly to make them stick 
and folded over to form triangles. Omit the meringue in this 
case. 



Plum Pudding. 

1^2 lb. suet. I loaf stale bread. 

I cup sugar. Yi lb. raisins. 

I glass brandy. i lb. currants. 

I nutmeg. i teaspoon ground ginger. 

Yi cup milk. I teaspoon salt. 

18 Maraschino cherries. Y^ lb. English walnuts. 

Chop the suet very fine, also the nuts ; grate the bread. Mix 
all ingredients thoroughly. Tie in a cloth, or put in a covered 
mould, filling Y\ ^'^' Steam 3 hours. Serve with hard sauce, 
to which add the beaten white of i t^^. 



WHAT WITH WHAT. 

All references to recipes begin with capital letters. 

H^ith raw oysters — Cocktail sauce, New York sauce, sliced 
lemon, tomato catsup. 

Soups — Egg balls, force-meat balls, egg dumplings, cheese 
croutons, crisps, Parmesan fritters. 

Mock turtle soup — Curry balls. 

Fish, baked — Beans, corn, lettuce, mashed potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, squash. Drawn Butter, Hollandaise Sauce. 

Fish, boiled — Potatoes, squash, turnips, tomatoes, horse- 
radish, lemon. Tomato Sauce, Tartar Sauce, Parsley Sauce, 
Lobster Sauce. 

Fish, fried — Cucumbers, potatoes, squash, tomatoes, Sauce 
Tartare, Cucumber Sauce. 

Fish balls — Fried green tomatoes, Maitre d'hotel Sauce. 

Roast beef — Baked beets, macaroni, potatoes, rice, squash, 
turnips, horseradish sauce, dry grated horseradish, tutti frutti, 
cooked bananas, candied cherries, apple fritters. Mushroom 
Sauce. 

Beefsteak — Beans, corn, peas, parsnips, croquettes, potatoes, 
tomatoes, slices of lemon, strips of green peppers, fried. Mush- 
room Sauce, Bearnaise Sauce. 

Lamb, boiled — Asparagus, peas, potatoes, spinach, turnips. 
Caper Sauce. 

Lamb chops — Asparagus, lettuce, potatoes, sweet potatoes, 
turnips, Tomato Sauce, pickles, Bearnaise Sauce. 

Lamb, roast — String beans, corn, peas, potatoes, fried sum- 
mer squash, turnips, Mint Sauce. 



Lamb chops — Lettuce, potatoes, turnips, sweet potsftoes, 
pickles, tomato sauce, Bearnaise sauce. 

Mutton, roast — Boiled onions, mashed turnips, mashed po- 
tatoes, asparagus, cauliflower, spinach, peas, fried tomatoes, 
currant jelly, orange marmalade. 

Pork, roast — Onions, rice, potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash, 
spinach, cauliflower, Apple Sauce, or fried apples. 

Sweetbreads — Peas, asparagus, cauliflower, tomatoes, maca- 
roni and cheese, Tomato Sauce. 

Birds — Currant or plum jelly, turnips, macaroni, beans, 
mashed potatoes, rice croquettes. 

Calf's head — Brain sauce, beans, celery, dandelions, maca- 
roni, horseradish, parsnips, spinach, potatoes. 

Duck, wild — ^Tomatoes, macaroni, spinach, wild rice, any 
green salad, black currant jelly, wild grape jelly. Mustard 
Sauce. 

Duck, roast — Boiled onions, baked macaroni, corn, beans, 
mashed potatoes, boiled rice, squash, apple sauce, "currant 
Jelly Sauce," Olive Sauce, ''Celery Sauce," Mustard Sauce. 

Turkey, boiled — Lettuce, parsnips, potatoes, turnips, currant 
jelly, "Oyster Sauce," Cranberry Sauce, Celery Sauce, Lemon 
Sauce. 

Turkey, roast — Beans, corn, cold slaw, onions, potatoes, 
rice croquettes, green beans, sweet potatoes, squash, toma- 
toes, cranberry, plum or currant jelly. Chestnut Sauce. 

Lamb, cold — Mint jelly, pickles, baked macaroni with 
oysters. 

Veal, roast — Asparagus, horseradish, parsnip-croquettes, 
mashed potatoes, spinach, sweet potatoes, Apple Sauce. 



Venison, roast — Onions, mashed potatoes, squash, turnips, 
currant jelly (red or black), Claret Sauce, Currant Jelly 
Sauce. 

Venison, steaks — Parsnip croquettes, potatoes, baked squash, 
deviled tomatoes, creamed turnips, currant or plum jelly, 
"Port Wine Sauce." 

Game — Potatoes, tomatoes stewed, spinach on toast, green 
salads, "Bread Sauce," orange and cress salad. 

Goose, roast — Beans, onions, mashed potatoes, boiled wild 
rice, squash, turnips, Apple Sauce with horseradish and 
whipped cream added. 

Chicken, roast — Beans, baked beets, celery, corn pudding, 
onions (boiled or baked), currant or other acid jelly. 

Chicken, fried — Cauliflower, fried mush or fine hominy (as 
garnish to chicken), stuffed potatoes, acid jelly, rice, parsnips, 
turnips, tomatoes, celery. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 

(Measurements are level.) 
Currant Jelly Sauce. 

(DUCK AND VENISON.) 

Break 3 inches of cinnamon into bits, add 6 cloves, 4 table- 
spoons of sugar, the thin yellow peel of ^ lemon, ^ cup of 
port wine, and keep warm >^ hour to steep. Strain into a 
double boiler containing J^ glass currant jelly chopped fine. 
Let it come to a boil and serve very hot. 



Claret Sauce. 

(VENISON.) 

One glass black currant jelly, 6 cloves, }^ stick of cinnamon, 
rind of 2 oranges, i tablespoon reduced soup stock, i table- 
spoon brown sauce. Put these into a stewpan, add i cup of 
Burgundy or claret, and boil 20 minutes. Strain into a double 
boiler, add the juice of 2 oranges, bring to a brisk boil and 
serve very hot. 



Parsley Sauce. 

(FOWI, AND BOII^ED FISH.) 

Add 2^2 tablespoons of chopped parsley to i pt. Drawn But- 
ter Sauce. 



Chestnut Sauce. 

(TURKEY.) 

Remove shells from i pt. large chestnuts. Boil them 3 min- 
utes. Remove the skins, break them in half. Cook in salted, 
boiling water until very soft. Mash fine in the water in which 
they were boiled. Cook 2 tablespoons of flour in 4 of browned 
butter, stir into the chestnuts and cook 5 minutes. Salt and 
pepper to taste. 



Cucumber Sauce. 

(FOR FRIED FISH.) 

Pare 2 cucumbers, cut into quarters lengthwise (removing 
seeds, if large), chop fine and squeeze dry. Season with salt, 
paprika and i tablespoon of vinegar. Add ^ cup thick cream 
whipped stiff. 



New York Sauce. 

(FOR RAW OYSTERS.) 

One tablespoon finely chopped shallot, i teaspoon chopped 
chives, 34 teaspoon of salt, a little white pepper, 5 tablespoons 
tarragon vinegar, 2 teaspoons fresh lime juice. Mix and let 
mellow I hour before serving. 



Olive Sauce. 

(ROAST DUCK.) 

Soak I cup of olives in hot v ater 20 minutes to extract the 
salt. Pare round and round through to the stone, keeping the 
flesh in one curling piece. Add these to i cup Brown Sauce, 
and simmer 8 minutes. Serve hot. 



Lemon Sauce. 

(BOIIvED FOWL.) 

Boil and mash the chicken livers, add these and the pulp and 
juice of i>^ lemons to i pt. of Drawn Butter Sauce. 



Horseradish Sauce. 

(ROAST GOOSE.) 

Put I cupful of hot apple sauce through a sieve, add 2 table- 
spoons of sugar, ^ cup grated horseradish and the same 
amount of whipped cream. 



Horseradish Sauce. 

(HOT FOR BEEF.) 

4 tablespoons of grated t teaspoon of powdered 

horseradish. sugar. 

4 tablespoons of cracker i teaspoon of made mustard. 

crumbs. 2 tablespoons of vinegar. 

I teaspoon of salt. I/2 cup cream. 
A little white pepper. 

Mix and heat in double boiler. 



Horseradish Sauce. 

(COLD.) 

Cream ^4 cup (4 level tablespoons) of butter very light, add 
4 tablespoons of grated horseradish, i tablespoon of very thick 
cream, and ^ teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 



To Blanch Parsley. 

(FOR SOUPS.) 

To produce a vivid green place the parsley in a strainer, or 
cloth, and dip it for ^ minute into boiling water, into which 
put a pinch of soda. Then squeeze dry in a clean cloth and 
chop veiy fine. 



To Flavor Cornbeef, Ham or Tongue. 

Mix I tablespoon of vinegar with i tablespoon of Worces- 
tershire sauce, add i teaspoon of dry mustard, i tablespoonful 
brown sugar, 6 cloves, 6 allspice. Stir until sugar is dissolved. 



Add the mixture to the beef ^ hour before it is done, and put 
the beef back into this hquid (after first serving) until it gets 
cold over night 



To Fry Oysters. 

Dip fried oysters first in mayonnaise and then in fine cracker 
crumbs before frying. 



Parmesan Fritters. 

(CREAM SOUPS.) 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, a pinch of salt, 4 tablespoons 
of water (or 5 tablespoonfuls of milk). Boil these and stir 
in quickly 1-3 cup of flour, and when smooth remove, add 6 
tablespoons of grated Parmesan. Cool and add 3 unbeaten 
eggs, reserving i white. Beat well, and drop in bean-like bits 
from a teaspoon into hot fat. Cook a delicate brown and 
serve hot. 



Oil Pickles. 

One hundred cucumbers, finger length and size, sliced in ^ 
inch pieces without paring. Mix in layers, with large cup of 
salt, over night. Three pints of small onions in cold water 
I hour. Wash cucumbers free from salt, add 3 oz. ground 
white pepper, 3 oz. white mustard seed, i oz. celery seed, 2 
cups best olive oil (Antonini), and alum, size of a hickory nut, 
dissolved in hot water. Place in Royal glass jars and cover 
with cold vinegar (which has been previously scalded). 



Chopped Pickle. 

Chop Yz peck green tomatoes {^ox Yi doz. ripe yellow cucum- 
bers), 3 green peppers, 6 onions, 2 red peppers, sprinkle in 
layers with i pt. salt, and let stand over night. Drain dry. 
scald vinegar and pour over and let it remain 2 or 3 days, when 
drain again and throw away the vinegar. 

Scald 3 qts. vinegar, 3 lbs. sugar, 2 tablespoons black pep- 
per, 3 oz. allspice, 3 oz. whole cloves, 6 oz. white mustard seed, 
I oz. celery seed, alum size of an English walnut. Pour over 
and seal cold. 



Indian Pickle. 

Scald I gal. cider vinegar with i cup salt, Yi oz. white pep- 
per, 5 lbs. sugar, i oz. ground mustard, ^ cup ground ginger, 
a few pieces ginger root broken into bits, 4 oz. white mustard 
seed, 4 oz. cassia (cinnamon) buds, 2 teaspoonfuls whole 
cloves. When cold add all kinds of pickle vegetables as they 
come into season, only washing them off in boiling water to 
kill germs. Use okra buds (whole or sliced), string beans, 
nasturtium seeds, cauliflower, radishes, radish seed-pods, etc., 
etc., adding strips of green peppers and horseradish to keep 
the vinegar sharp. Six lemon verbena leaves improve the 
flavor, or tutti frutti. or juice from preserves. 



Sliced Cucumber Pickle. 

Slice 100 medium sized cucumbers without paring. Sprinkle 
in layers with i pt. of salt. Leave in brine from one morning 
until the next evening, then wash off and put in clear water, 
and let stand to freshen over night. To 7 lbs. cucumbers allow 
4 lbs. brown sugar, i oz. each cloves, cinnamon buds, white 



mustard seed, turmeric powder, and i tablespooiiful black pep- 
per. Put in kettle in layers with 6 sliced onions, cover with 
vinegar, and simmer very gently 2 hours. Seal cold. 



Ripe Tomato Soy. 

(SWEET.) 

Pour boiling water over Y2 peck ripe tomatoes. Let stand 
3 minutes, remove skins, slice thin and add 6 medium-sized 
onions (peeled and sliced), and i cup of salt. Let stand 36 
hours. Drain off and throw away the juice. 

To the solid part add 4 cups of sugar, i level tablespoon 
ground allspice, i level tablespoon ground pepper, i level 
tablespoon ground cloves, 2 qts. cider vinegar, 2 level table- 
spoons ground mustard, 2 level tablespoons salt. Boil until 
smooth and tender. Seal hot. (Delicious.) 



Currant Soy. 

(COI.D MEATS.) 

Simmer very slowly for i hour 3 qts. red currants 
(stemmed), 3 qts. (6 lbs.) sugar, 3 sliced lemons, 3 cups 
seeded raisins, i cup vinegar, 3^ teaspoon ground cloves, i 
teaspoon cinnamon, t ground nutmeg. 



Conserves. 

Cut in pieces i qt. rhubarb, add i pt. red raspberries, i pt. 
red currants, i lb. seeded raisins, i lb. chopped English wal- 
nuts, 2 oranges and 2 lemons, with peel. To each pound of 
fruit allow i lb. of sugar. Cook till thick like jelly and put up 
in glasses. 



Rhubarb and Fig Jam. 

Seven pounds rhubarb, 5 lbs. sugar. Cut the rhubarb into 
inch lengths. Sprinkle with the sugar and let stand all night. 
Chop the peel and pulp (omitting white parts) of 3 lemons and 
I lb. nice figs, very fine. Add to rhubarb and boil hard about 
I hour, stirring constantly to prevent the figs from settling and 
burning. When like marmalade put in jelly glass. 



Rhubarb and Pineapple Jam. 

Seven pounds rhubarb, 8 lbs. sugar, i pineapple. Chop the 
prepared pineapple and sprinkle it with the same measurement 
of the sugar. Wash and cut the rhubarb in ^-inch lengths, 
sprinkling the remainder of the 8 lbs. of sugar through it in 
layers. Let stand all night (or several hours), then put the 
rhubarb in a kettle, add the juice of 2 lemons, and boil Yz 
hour, then add the pineapple, cook 15 minutes, and when thick 
put into glasses and pour over melted paraffine when jam is 
cold. 



Grape Fruit Marmalade. 

Five medium-sized grape fruits, 12 lbs. sugar, 12 pts. of 
water. Slice the fruit very thin. Put them into a kettle with 
II pts. of the water. Cover the seeds with the other pint of 
water. Let all stand 24 hours. Squeeze water from seeds, and 
add it to the fruit. Add juice of 3 oranges and 3 lemons. Boil 
13^ hc^urs, keeping kettle covered. Add sugar and boil 30 min- 
utes. 



Cucamber Preserves. 

Take young cucumbers, a little longer than your middle 
finger, allowing i pt. of salt for every hundred. Sprinkle in 
layers, pour on boiling water and let stand one week (with a 
weight to keep them under the brine). Wash the salt off, 
and soak i day and night in fair water, changing this 4 times. 
With a small knife slit down one side, dig out the seeds, stuff 
with a mixture of 2 cups of seeded chopped raisins, Yz, cup 
citron, chopped very fine, and ^ cup candied cherries, also 
chopped. Sew up incision with fine thread. Weigh them and 
make a syrup, allowing i lb. sugar to every one of cucumbers, 
with a pint of water. Heat to a sharp boil, skim, drop in tbe 
fruit, and simmer very slowly i hour. Take up the fruit and 
spread on a platter. Boil down the syrup with a little ginger 
root added. When thick put in the cucumbers again, simmer 
5 minutes to heat through, then put in glass jars, sealing when 
cold. An odd and delicious sweet pickle. (Cut in slices and lay 
them down flat.) 



Preserved Pumpkin. 

Cut, pare and remove the seeds, cut in squares, or slice on 
a potato cutter. Allow equal weight of sugar and pumpkin, 
arranging them in layers. Pour in lemon juice, Y^ cupful to 
each pound of pumpkin. Let stand 24 hours. Then boil all 
together with i cup of water to every 3 lbs. of pumpkin, 1 
tablespoon ginger root, tied in a cloth, and the thin yellow 
rind of the lemons shredded. Simmer until pumpkin is ten- 
der, then put in jars. In 3 or 4 days pour oft* the syrup, boil 
up and pour over hot. 



Tutti Frutti. 

Put into a 2-qt. jar i pt. of pure alcohol and i^ lbs. white 
sugar. Stir well. Add all kinds of fresh fruits as they, come 
into season, and as fruit is put in always add an equal amount 
of sugar (in addition to the first syrup). Use red currants, 
cherries, strawberries, red raspberries (very generously), 
peaches, candied or fresh kumquots, apples, pears, plums, pine- 
apple (sliced and then quartered), quinces (slightly cooked) — 
everything but blackberries, blueberries and muskmelon. These 
berries are too dark. 

A most delicious flavor is imparted to grape jelly by adding 
a twig of cherry tree, with 2 or 3 leaves, sewing it in a bag. 



A few peach leaves added to tomato catsup improve the 
flavor. 



Scotch Potato Scones. 

Sift together 2 cupfuls Swansdown flour, yi teaspoonful of 
salt, and 2 of baking powder, rub in ^ cupful of mashed pota- 
toes, add I beaten tgg and enough milk to make a soft dough. 
Divide into three portions, pat into rounds y^ inch thick, and 
cut each round into quarters. Glaze with %. cup (4 table- 
spoons) milk and i tablespoonful of sugar. Bake in hot oven, 
split, butter and serve hot. 



English Scones. 

I cup flour. 4 tablespoons of butter. 

^2 teaspoon soda. 2 tablespoons of sugar. 

J/2 teaspoon salt. J cup Sultana raisins. 



1 teaspoon cream of tartar. i egg. 

2 tablespoons of buttermilk. 

Mix and sift all dry ingredients. Chop the hard butter in 
until quite fine. Add raisins, then egg (slightly beaten), but- 
termilk to make a soft dough, and roll out. Dredge board, 
lightly, toss and pat half the dough into a ball, flatten into the 
shape of a pie plate, glaze top by brushing with a slightly 
beaten egg, or 4 tablespoons of milk and i of sugar. Bake 
quickly 15 minutes. 



Tea Cake. 

2% cups Swansdown flour. ^2 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 3^ nutmeg. 

2^ teaspoons baking powder. ^ cup currants. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. j4 cup milk (more or less). 
Pat into 2 rounds, }i inch, and bake in 2 pie plates. Cut 

into pie-shaped pieces and serve very hot. 



Drop Cakes. 

Cream i cup of butter, add 2 cups of granulated sugar grad- 
ually and cream again. Add 5 eggs well beaten, 2 cups Swans- 
down flour, and i teaspoonful of vanilla. Drop in small dots 
on the bottom side of iron meat pan. Bake in an almost cold 
oven to allow the cakes to run and spread before they cook. 



(No milk.) 



Sour Cream Cookies. 



I teaspoon soda. i cup butter. 

1 cup sour cream. 2 cups of sugar. 

2 eggs. 35^ cups flour. 



Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar, beating all 
the time. Add 2 well-beaten eggs and the sour cream, adding 
the soda to it (first dissolving it in a little hot water). Have 
the mixture as soft as possible. Roll thin and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 



Ideal Cookies. 

2 cups sugar. 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

Yi cup butter. ^ grated nutmeg. 

2 eggs. Yi. cup milk. 

Flour to make soft dough that 2 teaspoons of baking 
can be handled. powder. 

Cream the butter, sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg very thor- 
oughly, add 2 well-beaten eggs, beat well, and stir in ^ cup of 
milk, add flour to make a dough that can be handled, sifting 
the baking powder into part of it. 

Flour your hands lightly, take bits of the dough and shape 
them into balls between the palms. Throw each ball into a 
cup of granulated sugar, and shake until it is thoroughly 
coated. Place these balls on a well-greased pan and they will 
spread into cookies. Bake slowly to a very pale yellow. They 
will be spicy, sparkling and crackled all over like macaroons. 
(Delicious.) 



Spiced Fruit Cake. 

I cup butter. 2 cups seeded raisins. 

I cup brown sugar. i cup warm coflFee. 

I teaspoon ground allspice. i t%'g. 

I teaspoon ground nutmeg. i cup black molasses. 
I teaspoon ground cinnamon. 3 cups sifted flour. 
I teaspoon soda put into the 
molasses. 



Order of mixing: Cream the butter alone, add sugar and 
cream again, tgg beaten very light, then the molasses (into 
which has been stirred the soda), the warm coffee, the flour, 
a little at a time, and the spices. Beat very thoroughly and 
add the fruit dredged with flour. Bake in a slow oven 15^2 to 
2 hours, as a hot oven easily burns molasses. 



Blueberry Cake. 

2 cups flour. 5^ teaspoon soda. 

I teaspoon cream of tartar. 2-3 cup of sugar. 

I egg. Milk to make thick batter. 

Salt. 2 cups berries. 

Grease a pan and pour in a layer of batter, then berries, un- 
til pan is filled. Cut in squares and serve hot. (Bannocks.) 



Blueberry MuSfins. 

Sift together 2 cups of flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 
J teaspoon salt. Beat 3 eggs, add i^ cupsful of milk and 
stir this mixture with the first one. Stir in very gently i cup- 
ful of blueberries and bake in a hot oven. 



Improved German Puffs. 

5 eggs, leaving out the 5 tablespoons of flour. 

whites of 3. I tablespoon melted butter. 

yi teaspoon salt. 2 cups sweet milk. 

Beat the eggs and milk together till very light, then add 
flour and butter. Bake in greased cups or gem tins half full. 



Corn Dodgers. • 

2 cups cornmeal. 2 tablespoons of flour. 

2 cups boiling water. 2 eggs. 

I tablespoon of sugar. i teaspoon salt. 

Pour boiling water on the meal, sugar and salt. Beat and 
put in a cool place over night. In the morning add the eggs 
well beaten and the flour. Dip a tablespoon into cold milk, 
then fill it with batter, and slide it gently into the deep hot fat, 
and cook 10 minutes. 



?$ 



The School of Domestic Arts acnd 
Science recommends Dr. Price's 
CreatiTi Backing Powder, and uses 
it, in SlII its recipes. 



Millinery e^nd Dressma^king a^re the ARTS, Cooking the 
SCIENCE 



AT 
RETAIL 



PITKOV & BROOKS 



CORNER 

STATE 

AND 

LAKE STS. 





Fine Table Service 

The Dinner is not complete with- 
out beautiful China and 
Rich Cut Glass 



This is OUK Specialty 

Bronzes, Art Pottery, Jardinieres, 
Table Cutlery, Lamps, Bric- 
a-Brac, Beautiful Hand- 
Painted China 



I 




A few good Pictures and pieces '^of Pottery 
carefully selected, are a continual delight to 
the home. These need not necessarily be expen- 
sive. We can show you Pictures framed, good 
reproductions and desirable subjects, at 75 cents 
and upward. We have many fine new things 

in color 

Our Japanese Pottery shows the artistic skill of 
that clever people A little vase, good in shape 
and color, with perhaps a dainty decoration of 
cherry blossoms, or other flower, can be had for 
50 cents, with larger pieces in proportion. 
We have candlesticks, vases, jardinieres, lamp- 
bowls, pitchers, fruit baskets and hanging 
baskets and the prices are not expensive. Our 
subjects in this line are unique and unusual 
and many of them cannot be duplicated , making 
them especially attractive for gifts and prizes. 
We make a special study of the Artistic Fram- 
ing of Pictures 



The Chicago Art Education Co. 

215 Wabash Ave.. CHICAGO "'ISo'STi^'' 





CORRECT 
MILLINERY 



D. B. Fisk 

& Co. 



FlSK MILLINERY IS CARRIED BY ALL FIRST 
CLASS MILLINERY SHOPS 



Wholesale Only 



Aslc to see the FISKHATS 



Darwin's Salad Vinegar 

Recommended by the Chicago School of Domestic Arts 
and Science 



Contains 

every 
requisite 

for a 

PERFECT 

FRENCH 

SALAD 

DRESSING 




Except 
Olive Oil 
and Salt 

USE ONLY 

A SMALL 

QUANTITY 

of the 

Vinegar 



This Vinegar is put up in Sauterne pints, 75 cents each. Sample bottles (sufficient to 
make ■ salad (our times for four persons) 10 cents; by mail, 16 cents. 

For sale in Chicago by SPRAGUE, WARNER & CO.. and ROCKWOOD BROS, 
at wholesale and at retail by STANTON & CO.. 67 Washington St.. C. JEVNE & 
CO., 110-112 Madison St., and by leading grocers throughout the United States. 



ERASMUS DARWIN 4 CO, 
CHICAGO 



City Office Suite t3I3 
Title and Trust Building 



Labratsry 
Corner of Lawndale and Humboldt Aves, 



J 



i 



Nature's Cure for 
Constipation 

When troubled with constipation the day should 
be started with the juice of a whole lemon in a glass 
of cold water without sugar. This, with regular 
exercise and the eating of 

DR. PRICE'S 

WHEAT FLAKE CELERY 

FOOD 




will stimulate the liver into extra action and then 
the bile causes the bowels to move. Bile is the 
natural laxative for the bowels and the lemon acid 
and the food stimulate liver action. 

Palatable— Nutritious— Easy of Digestion and Ready to Eat 
Can be served hot. Pat in a hot oven for a few minutes; or cook In boiling milk: 

lOc a package ^In^i^e^"'' ^ --->^ 134 

All Crrocers package 



^..W±.^ 




^(^^e\o>^s> 



Natural FrultFIavors ^\ClX)WV\0^ 



Vanilla 
Lemon 
Orange 
Rose. etc. 



as they never fail to 

F lease, are prepared 
rom the choicest and 
purest materials. They 
contain no poisonous 
oils or ethers. They 
impart the true flavor 
of the fruit from which 
they are made. 

DR. PRICE'S 
Harmless 
FOOD COLORS 

are the only colors in 
the world which have 



me woi._ 

the perfect fruit tint of veRctable oriein, containing no aniline (coal-tar) dyes or any other 
minerals. Absolutely free from all substances detrimental to health. They meet the require 
tnentf of the food laws of any country. 



I 



ANTONINI 6 CO. 

Pure Table 

OLIVE OIL 



Imported for 55 years, and acknowleged 
during that time by connoisseurs as 

The Finest for Salads and 
Mayonnaise Dressing 

Put up in reputed Quarts, long bottles. 

Quarts, short, wide bot- 
tom bottles 

Pints, long bottles 

Pints, short, wide bot- 
tom bottles 

Half Pints, long bottles 

Splendidly Corked and 
Capsuled 

Full Five Gallon Cans, Full One Gal- 
lon Cans, Full Half Gallon and Quart 
Cans, with corked spouts securely capsuled 

For Sale by Grocers and Drusglsts through- 
out the United States 



James P. Smith 6 Co. 

57-59 South Water St., Chicago, 111. 

Paris, France Sole Agents in the United States 



OI^B SlSl OBKTRAL. 



7 ▲. M. TO 7180 P. M. 



The Mrs. Clark Co. 

LUlSrCTI ROOM 

BRBAKFAST DINNER StTPPKR 



HOMB COOKINO AND OAXBHINO, 

BAKDWIOHES. SA1.ADS, OAKBS, BTO. 153 jMlCHIGAN A VENUE 



THE UP-TO-DATE KITCHEN 
SUPPLY 



FURNISHED BY 



E. R. SCHLICK 

437 N. Clark near Division 

TELEPHONE NORTH 1348 




MAYONNAISE MIXER 

For beatinit EiZ» and Cream, as well as (or Salad Dressing. 



Complete Line of Moulds, Enameled Ware, Wood- 
en Spoons, etc.. All of the Best Quality. 



Inspection In*Oited 

Oil Paintings 

BY MASTERS-BOTH OLD AND MODERN 

Water Colors 

BY MEN OF MERIT OF ALL SCHOOLS 



ANDERSON ART CO. 

178 Wabash Ave., 

CENTRAL 1088 CHICAGO 



Specimens of the Art of such etchers as 

Whistler Hayden Haig 

DicKsee etc. 

are always to be seen at our galleries. 

Consult us concerning the restoring of 
old valuable paintings. 

Exclusive designs in framing. 



I 




Courses in Cookery, Dressmaking, Sewing, Millin- 
ery, Home Nursing, Hygiene, and Household 
Economics. Autumn, Winter, and Spring 
Terms, in each Branch. 

The Aim of this ScllOOl is not merely to impart the 
technical skill and knowledge necessary for 
those who guide the home, but to train 
women to a broad and scientific view of the 
whole range of subjects, allied to the proper 
management of the home. 

Courses in Serving are given in a conveniently 
equipped dining room. 

Send for Catalogue. 



SCHOOL OF DOMESTI C ARTS AND 

39 State St.» Burton Block, CHICAGO 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 488 308 1 



SAfE DEPOSIT kv Xm ' 



FOR- 



valuable articles of every description 



THE 
COLUMBUS 

^^ 

SAFE 

DEPOSIT 

VAULTS 



COLUMBUS MEMORIAL BUILDING 

State and Washington Sts. 
CHICAGO. 

Boxes $3.00 and upward a year. 



