BOUGHT WITH THE INCOME 
FROM THE 

SAGE ENDOWMENT FUND 

THE GIFT OF 

iienrg W. Sage 

1891 



4.2 i3s.^.i? yy/;f. 



"Af^/- 



7673-2 



RETURN TO 
ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 

ITHACA, N. Y. 



Cornell University Library 

SB 321.W99R 



The book of rarer vegetables 




3 1924 003 304 692 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003304692 



HANDBOOKS OF PRACTICAL GARDENING 
EDITED BY HARRY ROBERTS 



THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 




CORN GOES 



THE BOOK OF 
RARER VEGETABLES 



GEORGE WYTHES, V.M.H. 

HEAD GARDENER TO TOE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND 



HARRY ROBERTS 'f,,, 



^ 



LONDON: JOHN LANE, THE BODLEY HEAD 
NEW YORK : JOHN LANE COMPANY. MCMVI 



5B 

321 



/Vi\'ia-'iS' 



Ttirnbull &" Spears, Printers, Edinburgh 



INTRODUCTORY 

The vegetables, the culture and cooking of which are 
discussed in this volume are not all "rare" in the 
collector's sense of the word. Rather are they for the 
most part vegetables which we in this country under- 
value and under-use for the simple reason that we are 
ignorant of the art of raising and preparing them. A 
few vegetables are dealt with in this volume for no 
better reason than that they have not been dealt with in 
any other volumes of the present series of handbooks — 
which series, it is hoped, will, as a whole, form a fairly 
complete library of practical gardening. For the cultural 
instructions in the present volume, Mr Wythes is alone 
responsible. 

The majority of the better known vegetables have 
been discussed in Mr Wythes' " Book of Vegetables," 
whilst Asparagus, Seakale, Salsify, Scorzonera, and 
Celery were treated of in our first volume. 

I take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to 
those very eminent seedsmen and horticulturists, Messieurs 
Vilmorin, Andrieux et Cie. of Paris, for the loan of 
numerous blocks used to illustrate this volume. I may 
add that if readers of this book find any difficulty in 
purchasing in this country the seeds of the lesser grown 
vegetables, Messrs Vilmorin will generally be able to 
solve their difficulty. 

The photographs here reproduced are by Mr Charles 
Thonger. 

HARRY ROBERTS. 



CONTENTS 









PAGE 


Introductory . ..... vii 


The Cookery of Vegetables 






3 


Artichoke, Globe 






5 


Artichoke, Chinese 






IZ 


Capsicum 






'5 


Cardoon 






18 


Celeriac 






14 


Chervil 






*7 


Chick-Pea 






»9 


Chicory 






30 


Chou de Burghley 






3» 


Coco 






33 


CouvE Tronchuda 






34 


Dandelion 






35 


Egg Plant 






37 


Evening Primrose 






43 


Fennel . 






45 


Good King Henry 




47 


Hop . . . 




49 


Horse Radish . 




5° 


Lentils ...... 




53 


Maize ... . . 




56 


Mountain Spinach 




59 


Nasturtium .... 




61 


Nettle .... 




64 


New Zealand Spinach 


65 


Onions, Some . 






67 



CONTENTS 









PAGE 


OxALis Crenata . . . . . .71 


Hamburg Parsley 




75 


Patience 




77 


Potato, Congo 




79 


Potato, Fir Apple 




80 


Potato, Sweet . 




81 


Quinoa . 






83 


Rampion 






85 


Rhubarb 






87 


Rocambole 






90 


ScOLYMUd 






9' 


Scurvy Grass 




93 


Skirret . 




95 


Sorrel . 


97 


Soy Beans . . . . 102 


Sweet Cicely . . . 103 


Tuberous Glycine . , . , . 104 


Yam . . . . . . 105 


Index 






109 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Corn Cobs 

Large Green Paris Artichoke 

Globe Artichokes 

Chinese Artichoke 

Spanish Mammoth Capsicums . 

Capsicums 

Prickly Tours Cardoon 

Celeriac 

Broad-leaved Chicory . 

Chicory Roots . 

Braganza, Portugal, or Sea-Kale Cabbage 

Thick-leaved, or Cabbaging, Dandelion 

Long Purple Egg Plant 

Aubergine, or Egg Plant 

Evening Primrose 

Finochio, or Florence Fennel 

Horse Rajish . . , 

Large Yellow Lentil . 

Maize ..... 

Tuberous-rooted Nasturtium . 

China-Grass Silvery Nettle . 

New Zealand Spinach . 

Tubers of Oka-Plant, Oxalis Crenata 

Early Hamburg Parsley 

Herb Patience, or Patience Dock 

Potato Vitelotte 



Frontispiece 

5 



To face page 



face page 



To face page 



face page 



6 
13 
'5 
16 

•9 

25 
30 

3° 
34 
35 
38 
40 

43 
45 
5' 
54 
57 
62 
64 
65 
72 
75 
77 
79 



xn 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



" Rose de Maiaya " Sweet Potato 




SI 


Sweet Potatoes . . 


To face page 


82 


R-AMPION .... 




85 


Rhubarb Stalks 




88 


Golden Thistle 




91 


Scurvy Grass .... 




93 


Skirret ..... 




95 


Common Broad-leaved French Sorrel 




98 


£tampes Yellow Soy Bean 




102 


Chinese Yam .... 




106 


Yams . . . ■ • 


To face page 


106 



THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



THE COOKERY OF VEGETABLES 

Vegetables, at any rate so far as private houses are 
concerned, are rarely cooked even tolerably in this 
country. Yet a very little knowledge and skill, and 
merely reasonable care, are all that is required in order 
to achieve success. The following few general instruc- 
tions may be helpful to the novice. All vegetables should 
be carefully cleaned, though unnecessary washing should 
be avoided. Potatoes and earthy roots should be well 
scrubbed and rinsed in cold water before being peeled. 
All dead leaves, or discoloured parts, should be removed 
from vegetables before being cooked. Cabbages and 
other vegetables likely to contain slugs or other creatures 
should be soaked for some time in cold water containing 
a tablespoonful of vinegar to the quart. Vegetables 
should not be bruised or squeezed before being cooked, 
or their qualities will largely be lost. The sooner 
vegetables are cooked after being removed from the 
garden, the finer will be their flavour and texture. 
With the exception of old potatoes and dried vegetables, 
such as lentils, all vegetables should be placed in boiling 
water containing a tablespoonful of salt to the gallon. 
Green vegetables should be boiled in abundance of 
water, with the lid of the pan off, whereas roots should 
be boiled with the lid on. All vegetables should be 
drained directly they are cooked. 

The recipes which follow are merely a selected few, 
and are in no sense meant to be complete. Those 
interested should consult also " The Book of Asparagus " 
and "The Book of Vegetables" in the present series'; 

3 



6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

a popular vegetable, and in some parts of the country the 
plant winters badly. In my opinion damp is a greater 
evil than frost, as in the northern part of the country, on 
the Scottish border, we rarely lost a plant in winter, 
whereas here in the south plants die in a wholesale 
manner, new plantations being needed annually. The 
plant is a hardy perennial, a native of the southern parts 
of Europe ; and there are not many varieties in this 
country, though in France, where this vegetable is a 
greater favourite, there are at least half a dozen named 
kinds. The large Purple and the Green are the best 
known, and the round-headed types are much the best, 
those with prickly pointed scales having less substance 
and being less valuable though the growths are doubt- 
less tender. The plant is easily raised from seed ; but 
no dependence can be placed upon plants thus raised, as 
though a few may by chance be good, the greater portion 
will be poor spiny things that have small heads with 
little substance. It is best therefore to rely upon the 
smaller growths — at the base these are produced freely — 
and to make a new quarter every three years. In Italy 
the plants are often made to produce what are termed 
Chards ; that is, the plants are not only grown for their 
flower heads but the leaf or stalk is used after blanching 
in the same way as Cardoons. The plants are cut over 
early and the new leaf growths that form are tied 
together, blanched and used like a Cardoon. This may 
with advantage be followed out in this country when the 
plants begin to fail through age. Previous to their being 
destroyed, they may be made serviceable by giving a crop 
of chards. In Paris the large Green Artichoke is the 
greater favourite. This is called the de Laon, and 
grown beside the ordinary green type it has several 
points in its favour, the one most notable being its suc- 
culent scales. This variety is a great favourite in the 
Paris markets, and early in the season there are consider- 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE 7 

able quantities imported into this country. There is a 
Purple variety that does well in this country, having 
much the same character as the large Green and only 
differing in colour ; and there is a smaller form that is 
largely grown abroad called the Perpetual, and this differs 
from the Globe or large round headed, the scales being 
more curved inwards at the tops. The plants produce 
freely till cut down by frost when grown in this country. 
In France the Perpetual is much liked when cooked 
before it is full grown, and in sheltered positions may be 
had nearly the whole year. It is of a purplish gray colour. 
As regards cultural details, they may be described as 
simple, providing deeply dug land not too heavy is 
given, and well enriched with manure. The plant being 
a gross feeder needs ample food. An open position should 
be selected, and in clayey soils I have seen burnt refuse 
or old leaf soil used to advantage. I have previously 
noted that it is well to plant every three years ; indeed 
where there is a large demand for fine heads I would 
prefer making a new quarter yearly, as by so doing the 
plants produce finer heads and continue to form them 
much later in the season. The plant in light or gravelly 
soils is soon affected by drought, and in such soils there 
should always be liberal top dressings in the way of 
mulching, the latter given just as the plants commence 
to form heads, and copious supplies of liquid manure 
will be beneficial. The plant also enjoys occasional 
dressing of salt, and in gardens where liquid manure is 
unobtainable I would advise a liberal dressing of fertiliser 
of a quick acting nature. Doubtless the most important 
point is to get a good variety and keep it by root division 
early in the spring, the land having been previously pre- 
pared ; indeed it is well to dig and manure the land some 
weeks in advance of planting if the soil is not of a 
clayey nature, as then it is in better condition for the 
plant. The suckers are taken from the parent plant 



8 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

when about 8 to lo inches long, or less would suffice, 
but each one should be taken with a heel ; that is, a 
small portion of the stem of the old plant is slipped off, 
and often with this will be some small roots attached, the 
stools or old plants being carefully uncovered to get at 
the young sucked growth. In planting there are two 
ways: either in straight rows 1 8 inches apart, 3 feet 
between the rows, or three suckers in a clump 9 to 12 
inches apart and 4 feet between the rows in places where 
plants winter well. I prefer the last named; and in other 
places the single plant system, as I find the plants can be 
more readily protected. In planting make each sucker firm 
and water thoroughly, and mulch over in dry seasons. 
In heavy land I would advise making raised mounds for 
each lot of plants by liberal additions to the soil of 
lighter materials ; and by raising and using rotten manure 
freely, the plants do much better than on the surface if 
the soil is clayey or at all wet. The plants will give a 
few heads the first season, but later than the older 
ones ; but they will give a much later crop, and often, say 
in October or early November, there will be no lack of 
good heads from the young plants, and these, if cut 
with a few inches of stalk and placed in water, may be 
kept for weeks in a cool root store. At the approach 
of frost the plants should have all the old stalks removed, 
the long leaf foliage also being reduced to about 18 
inches, and yellow leaves entirely cut away, and a good 
thickness of dry bracken or litter placed over the 
roots, closely packing round the stems of the plants, 
as from this portion next season's suckers will be 
obtained. In gardens where these plants winter badly 
I have found it advantageous to lift a few young 
stools, and to divide and plant them in a cold frame ; 
or they may be potted if a special variety. In March 
the protecting material is removed, and after a little 
exposure the new planting, if needed, is done, the old 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE 9 

plants are liberally manured, and the plants will soon 
begin to form heads. In some parts of the kingdom 
protection is not necessary ; and here growth is earlier, 
so that the plant in open quarters may be divided earlier 
than April, but the growers must be governed by the 
locality, soil, and surroundings. If the suckers are ob- 
tained from any distance they should be packed in wet 
moss, and in all cases there should be ample supplies of 
moisture when required during the growing season. 
The season for gathering of the heads is important, as if 
too large they are dry and Havourless, and though they 
may be used in a small state they are lacking the flavour 
of a quickly grown large succulent head. The heads 
are best just before the centre scales begin to unfold and 
whilst the outer ones are quite plump and fresh. The 
crop early in the spring may be hastened by covering 
the new growths at night by mats over stakes, also by 
giving food in the shape of nitrates and fish manure, 
the latter well washed down to the roots. 

To Boil Globe Artichokes 

Having cut off the stem level with the leaves, and 
having cut an inch or so from the top leaves, and 
removed the harder of the bottom leaves, clean and 
wash the Artichokes and plunge them into boiling salted 
water. Boil for half an hour or so, till the leaves are 
easily removed. Dish on a folded napkin, and serve 
with oil and vinegar. Sauce Hollandais, or melted butter. 

A French Method of Cooking Artichokes 

A French method of cooking Artichokes is the follow- 
ing, given by M. Urbain-Dubois : Trim the vegetable 
as before, then quarter it, scoop out the "choke" 
(i.e., the undeveloped flower), rub the inside well 
with lemon juice, and three parts boil in acidulated 
slated water ; then drain well, place in a buttered 



lo THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

stewpan, season with salt and white pepper, put little 
morsels of butter over them, and stew gently over a 
slow fire till cooked, when they may be served with 
a maitre d'hotel sauce (to half a pint of rich be- 
chamel or good brown sauce — if you wish it brown — 
add the strained juice of a lemon, a dust of cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, and, worked in at the 
last, l|^ ounces to 2 ounces of butter broken up small, 
working one piece well in before adding the next), or 
any other sauce to taste. 

The two following recipes are given by Mrs de 
Salis in her useful little book called " Dressed Vegetables 
a la Mode." 

Artichoke Bottoms a la CARfeME 

Fonds d' Artichauts a la Careme 

Wash the Artichokes thoroughly. Boil them till they 
are nearly tender ; drain them, remove the middle 
leaves and the Chokes, and lay in each a little of a 
forcemeat composed of six oysters, one sardine, two 
anchovies, and a few shrimps or prawns or pieces of 
lobster, all minced finely together, and put into a 
sauce made of a grated tablespoonful of horse radish, 
half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of capers, and one gill of 
white sauce. Let this boil up, then stir in the fish 
mixture, fill the Artichokes, and bake in the oven till 
tender and done. Scatter lobster coral on the top of 
each before serving, or alternately lobster coral and 
grated fried parsley. 

Artichoke Bottoms \ la Kaiser 

Fonds d^ Artichauts h la Kaiser 

Cook some Artichoke bottoms ; season them with a 
little grated Parmesan cheese. Take some plain round 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE ii 

glossy tomatoes and place one on each Artichoke ; lay 
some mushroom puree on the top of each, taking care 
to smooth it well ; place each Artichoke on a fried 
crouton masked with the tomato puree, and put them 
in a deep tin dish, and bake them in the oven (which 
must not be a fierce one) for about ten minutes. Just 
before serving, sprinkle a little fine-chopped parsley over, 
and curl an anchovy on the top of each round a sprig 
of parsley that has been heated in the oven. 



CHINESE ARTICHOKE 

The Chinese Artichoke — or Stachys tuherifera — is a 
hardy tuberous-rooted perennial, and though a small 
root is a welcome addition to the winter vegetables. It 
is not always well grown"; and on this account is not 
always made the best use of, as unless given good 
culture the plant gives much smaller tubers and is 
of much less value. The culture is most simple. 
The plant, though small, should not be crowded, 
and it does best in a well-drained, well-enriched free 
working soil, and the plant to get large tubers should 
never be allowed to suffer from drought in the growing 
season. It differs much from the older forms of Arti- 
choke, as the plant rarely exceeds 18 inches in height ; 
and this shows that a wide space is not needed between 
the rows — 18 inches will suffice, and 6 to 9 inches in the 
row ; the growth being weakly a well-worked or fine 
surface soil is necessary. In heavy clay soils I have 
made such soil suitable by having raised beds, making 
the top soil lighter by liberal additions of burnt garden 
refuse, old fine mortar rubble, and any old potting or leaf 
soil, the tubers when planted being covered with the 
light material. Planting is done early in the spring just 
before growth commences, and it is a good plan to draw 
drills 6 inches deep and place the small tubers in 
position at the distances advised above. When the 
tubers are forming freely, say in July and August, it will 
be found of great advantage to give liquid manure or 
flood the quarter, using a quick acting fertiliser if liquid 
manure is not at hand. Another important point is to 



CHINESE ARTICHOKE 



13 



plant good seed. It should be borne in mind that a small 
weak tuber cannot possibly yield equal produce to a 
well-nourished one, as though there may be no question 
as to its growing freely a goodly portion of the season 
is taken up in building up a plant before it can pro- 




CHINESE ARTICHOKE 



duce tubers. This plant has a tendency to make 
small growths, and we have obtained the best results 
from a strong seed tuber by keeping the plants free from 
the small shoots, only allowing the strong ones. In 
dry gravelly soils there is a great gain by giving a rich 
surface mulch, to retain moisture. The plant is very 
hardy, and in well-drained soil, after the tops die down, 



14 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

the tubers may remain in their growing quarters. In other 
cases it may be necessary to lift in November and store 
in fine soil or sand in a cool shed. The quality of the 
tubers suffers greatly if they become dried or shrivel, 
which frequently happens if lifted too early or given 
warm storage. So that whenever possible it is advis- 
able to winter the tubers where grown, and lift as re- 
quired for use. The plant left to chance soon becomes 
a nuisance, as it runs wild and is of little value, but 
given good cultivation may be made a valuable winter 
vegetable. In no case should the tubers be exposed to the 
light, as they quickly lose their ivory white colour and 
assume a dirty yellowish cast. In most gardens it would 
be found a good plan to give this vegetable change of 
quarters every other season, taking care that the smallest 
tubers are removed from the soil, otherwise there will be 
a difficulty in getting rid of small useless growths. In no 
case should the plants have a shaded position, but an 
open one, and a rich root run with ample moisture. The 
tubers are at their best as a vegetable from November 
to April, and many persons like them mixed with salads 
when cooked, and they impart a peculiar flavour in a raw 
state. They more resemble a large Radish. 

To Boil Chinese Artichokes 

Wash and plunge the Artichokes into boiling salted 
water. Boil them for from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
and serve with melted butter or sauce HoUandaise. 

To Fry Chinese Artichokes 

Chinese Artichokes are delicious when washed as 
above and merely dried and then fried in boiling oil 
or butter. When browned, serve hot on buttered 
toast. They may also be covered with egg and bread 
crumbs and cooked whole, being fried as above. 



CAPSICUM 



The Capsicum (Capsicum annuiim) is not largely culti- 
vated in this country. Owing to our short seasons, it can 
never be much of a favourite. The small varieties are 
mostly grown for decora- 
tion, but my note more 
refers to their use as a 
vegetable in a green 
state ; and in the United 
States and parts of the 
continent the large kinds 
are grown for that pur- 
pose. There are a large 
numberof varieties grown 
in the countries named, 
but it would serve no use- 
ful purpose to enumerate 
them. Some of the huge 
growers more resemble 
Tomatoes, as regards 
size, than the ordinary 
pepper. Some of the 
kinds, again, are small 
and more useful for 
salads. Others, when 
dried, are largely used to 
flavour Pickles, and these 
are mostly small with a very pungent flavour. The 
culture is simple if a glass protection can be given at 
the start. Indeed, I would, to get the best results. 




SPANISH MAMMOTH CAPSICUMS 
{One-third natural size) 



i6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

advise frame culture. Seeds are best sown in February 
or March in pots or pans, in light rich soil in a 
warm bed, and, when large enough, packed ofF into 
small pots, again placing under glass ; and they may 
be grown in pots to fruit, being shifted on into 6 
or 7-inch pots and grown on shelves near the light, 
or what is better, grown in frames near the glass. A 
frame that has grown Potatoes or early vegetables 
will grow excellent Capsicums if the soil is kept and 
there is warmth. Planted out there are much finer and 
heavier crops, and the plants continue to fruit if the 
green ones are gathered as required. A portion may 
be planted out on a warm border, but care must be 
taken to keep down red spider by damping overhead 
in the afternoon ; and they will, both in frames and in 
the open ground, take liberal supplies of food in the 
shape of liquid manure. 

Capsicums 

The dried fruits may be ground as required to furnish 
cayenne pepper, or the green Capsicums may be cooked 
as suggested in " Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen." 

Capsicums " Farciti." No. I 

Select large green sweet Capsicums, and for each one 
take half a pound of minced roast or boiled fowl, 
half a pound of grated bread-crumbs, a little salt 
and pepper, and some chopped parsley, and mix ; add 
two ounces of melted butter and mix again. Meanwhile 
cut off one end of the Capsicums (remove the seeds), and 
put the Capsicums into a saucepan of boiling water ; 
cover the pan and let it boil for about a quarter of an 
hour. Then drain the Capsicums well, fill them with 
the forcemeat, and sprinkle them over with bread- 
crumbs. Put some butter in an earthen pan and cook the 
Capsicums in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. 



CAPSICUM 17 

Capsicums " Farciti." No. 2 

Fry six medium-sized green sweet Capsicums for one 
minute in boiling fat, drain, peel, and cut off the ends, 
keeping them to use as covers. Remove the insides, 
and fill them with forcemeat made of minced fresh 
pork, a spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, half 
a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and the same of 
powdered thyme. Put on the ends, lay the Capsicums 
in a well-oiled baking-dish, add a little pure olive oil, 
and put them in a moderate oven to bake for a quarter 
of an hour. Turn them on to a hot dish, and serve 
with a quarter of a pint of Vellutata sauce with a little 
Marsala added. 

Capsicums " al Forno " 

Cut two or more green Capsicums in two lengthwise, 
remove the seeds and filaments, and parboil them in 
boiling water for five minutes. Fill each half with an 
equal quantity of softened bread-crumb and minced 
meat, seasoned with butter, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Then put them into a baking-dish in half an inch of 
good stock (or water), and bake. Serve in the baking- 
dish hot. 



CARDOON 

The Cardoon {Cynara cardunculus) is by no means 
a common vegetable, but is one well worth extended 
cultivation, being distinct from other vegetables. It is 
a perennial belonging to the southern parts of Europe. 
This plant is closely related to the artichoke ; indeed it 
may be thought that the Globe variety and the Cardoon 
are one, but with the latter plant it is the fleshy leaf- 
stalk that is edible, and in this the plant more re- 
sembles Celery. The stalks or ribs of the plants are 
blanched like Celery, and may be cooked in a variety 
of ways, and when well served they constitute a tender 
and good dish, but I fear the cooking of this vegetable 
in this country is not well known. On the continent 
the Cardoon is much esteemed, and considered "a choice 
dish. There are some half-dozen varieties under culti- 
vation. I am aware that nominally there are more, 
but they vary mostly in name and in the size of the 
plant. The commoner form has spineless leaves, the 
leaf-stalk is solid, but mere size does not in this vege- 
table like others denote quality, as I have found that 
the larger growers are different in flavour and less 
tender or succulent. This should be borne in mind, as 
in all vegetables, common or otherwise, it is important 
to grow those that give the best quality. The Spanish 
Cardoon is the variety mostly grown in this country, 
and the kind that nursery and seedsmen usually send 
if the Cardoon is asked for, and no specific variety 
stated, but it is by no means the best, and is a 
large grower having spineless leaves, and like the 



CARDOON 



19 



common it is apt to run to seed. This latter is a 
great fault, as the culture entails considerable expense 
of labour and space, and when this is lost by premature 
seeding it is most annoying. The Tours Cardoon is a 
variety much liked in France, and unfortunately this is 




PRICKLY TOURS CARDOON 
{Onc-Jl/icenth natural size) 

excessively spiny and most difficult to work amongst or 
handle as the long sharp spines are most disagreeable. 
On the other hand, this variety produces a better stalk 
than the others noted above, the stalk or leaf being 
thicker, more solid, and when cooked of superior quality, 
and this variety is less subject to run to seed, and may 
therefore be classed as one of the most suitable in 



20 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

every way. Some varieties are not nearly as hardy 
as others, but the Tours is one of the best in this 
respect. The best Cardoon I ever grew was from some 
seed given me by a celebrated traveller. It was a reddish 
stem or leaf-stalk not unlike the Marseilles, but much 
smaller, and of such a tender nature it was soon injured 
by cold. I was unable afterwards to get it true from 
home-g'rown seed, as it produced inferior stock. The 
Marseilles is a red stemmed Cardoon, having large leaves 
and smooth, and a solid stalk of good quality. The 
Puvis is a very large grower, having a thick leaf-stalk, 
very solid, and a thick or close leaf growth with very 
few spines ; it is also a free grower that does not soon 
run to seed, and when cooked it is considered one of the 
best. This I consider one of the best for ordinary garden 
culture, as, owing to the spineless or nearly spineless 
nature, it is much better and more readily handled. The 
above comprise the best known kinds, and the selection 
will be considered quite large enough for ordinary 
purposes. 

The plant needs more space than many other vege- 
tables. Its culture is not well known, and the plant is 
much better when raised under glass and planted out, 
getting a longer season's growth if this is done. A 
warm, well-drained soil, well enriched with manure, in 
an open position, is the best. Doubtless, in this country, 
the trench system in the same way as Asparagus is grown 
is the most reliable. Seed may be sown in pots under 
glass for an early supply in March, or early in April to 
plant out the end of May. Many good cultivators sow in 
heat, but I do not advise it, as given merely glass or 
cold frame shelter at the start, a sturdier plant is 
obtained and there is less risk at the planting out. 
At the start very little moisture is required till the 
seedlings have germinated, and it is well to sow these 
seeds in small pots •, and when these are well above 



CARDOON 21 

the soil, thin to the largest and grow near the glass, 
and give the seedlings ample ventilation as growth 
increases. For the planting out, the ground or trenches 
should be prepared in advance, and even when the 
plants are grown in the open from the start this advice 
still applies. The trenches should be at least 4 feet apart, 
and 1 2 inches deep, not taking into account the manure 
which is placed in the bottom of the trench, of which 
there should be at least 6 inches. This is dug in, and 
the plants placed at 18 inches apart in the trench. For 
the large growers more room is advantageous. To get 
the plants for the first supply — I mean those raised under 
glass, and when this plant is liked two or three lots 
may be grown, thus forming a succession — the same 
routine may be followed as concerns the land and 
spaces, but the seed may be sown in the trench, a few 
seeds dropped in at intervals of 18 inches lightly 
covered with soil, and when large enough thinned to 
the strongest. Doubtless this is the best system, for 
medium-sized produce, when only one lot of plants is 
grown, as should the least check occur to the plants 
raised in heat they invariably bolt or run to seed. If 
a late lot of plants should be required, seed may be 
sown in June, but the end of April or early in May 
is the best time for the open ground plants. All 
varieties are obtained from seed, and at the start the 
growth is slow in comparison with the after-growth as 
the plant will make rapid progress after midsummer 
providing there is no lack of moisture. 

The after-management of the plants is simple. It 
may be summed up as plenty of food in the shape of 
moisture and liquid manure, and attention to moulding 
up, that is, blanching and protection from frost and rain. 
As regards the blanching, the plants should be full 
grown or nearly so before this is attempted ; I do not 
advise doing the work before October, and it should 



22 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

be done in fine weather. Any of the lower small or 
yellow leaves should be cleaned away, and those that are 
to be blanched should be secured in an upright position ; 
if they are at all spiny this needs care, as they break 
readily, and I find it best to give several loose ties. These 
can be removed as the work proceeds. To cover the 
lower portion of the stalks many persons use haybands. 
These are wound round from the base and a good body 
of soil pressed close against the haybands to exclude 
air and moisture, the upper portion for 12 inches only 
being drawn together, not moulded. There are other 
methods. Large drain pipes may be used. These drawn 
over the plant and then filled in with fine soil or sand 
answer well. I have also seen stout brown paper or coarse 
canvas bands used in the place of haybands, but whatever 
is used must be sufficient to effect the blanching and 
exclude air. If the plants are moulded up early in 
October, they will be fit for use in a month's time. 
The later plants should be left growing as long as 
possible before covering. The plant is tender, but it 
may be kept good for some time if lifted before being 
frozen, preserving the root, and placing in a dry place. I 
have lifted and placed them in sand in a root store, getting 
a good ball of earth, and kept them sound till March. 
The later and medium-sized plants winter well grown 
from seed, as they are smaller and lift well. If it is 
desired to save any good kind, the plant is easily 
produced from suckers, but then there must be no 
blanching, and it will be necessary in most places to 
protect from frost or, what is better, to place stools in 
frames, or pot up and plant out in the spring ; but I 
think this plant quickly degenerates if grown in the 
same soil for years, and as good material can be obtained 
from seed, I do not advise growing plants for general 
use. The Cardoon is in season from October till 
March. 



CARDOON 23 

To Cook Cardoons 

The best way to cook Cardoons is to follow Mrs 
Roundell's advice and to cut them into four or five inch 
lengths, and throw them into boiling water into which a 
little lemon-juice has been squeezed. Keep the 
Cardoons boiling till their outer woolly skin will rub off 
in a cloth. Drain them, and throw them into cold water. 
When the Cardoons have cooled, scrape them, and pull 
off the stringy skin. Fill a crockery stewpan with boil- 
ing water flavoured with pepper and salt, lay a good- 
sized piece of raw bacon at the bottom, cutting the rind 
in strips, add a bunch of herbs, and then the Cardoons. 
Simmer gently till the Cardoons are tender, which may 
take two hours or more, according to their age and size. 
Drain the Cardoons and warm them up in good brown 
sauce. Or they can be served with white sauce. 
Wyuern advises that Cardoons should be placed on 
slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, with 
more bacon above them, and only just enough blanc to 
cover all. Then add slices of lemon, a little mignonette, 
pepper, and salt, cover the pan, and let the Cardoons 
simmer very gently till done. The blanc is a sort of 
stock which is used in boiling celery or any white vege- 
table to preserve the colour. To make blanc, cut up as 
small as possible a quarter of a pound of beef suet, and 
put it with a tablespoonful of flour into three and a half 
pints of cold water in a stewpan. Boil up and add eight 
ounces of onion cut up small, a bunch of curly parsley, 
a tablespoonful of dried thyme or marjoram, the rind of 
a lemon, a teaspoonful of sugar and one of salt. Stir 
well over a brisk fire for half an hour, strain, but do not 
take off the fat as the blanc cooks. When the Cardoons 
or other vegetables are cooked in blanc, put in with 
them two or three slices of lemon freed from pips, to 
improve the colour. 



CELERIAC 

Celeriac, or Turnip-rooted Celery, is a great favourite 
in cold countries, and is more largely grown than 
Celery. It differs in shape, and its season is from 
October to April. It is described as Turnip rooted, 
but this is scarcely a good description, as it widens at the 
base and is of a more rugged build than a Turnip. It 
is harder than Celery, and can be made a valuable sub- 
stitute when cooked and sliced with salads. There are 
very few kinds grown. If the best is required, it is well 
to get a continental variety. Our seedsmen do not often 
get called upon to furnish the seed of this vegetable : 
whereas quite half a dozen are catalogued by the Messrs 
Vilmorin of Paris. A few years ago I made a trial of 
the best kinds, and they were worth special notice as the 
quality was splendid. The culture differs from Celery, 
as here the root is the edible portion, not the stalk, and 
there is no blanching. And what makes Celeriac so 
useful is that it keeps sound for quite six months after 
being full grown. Large quantities of well-grown 
roots are imported into this country, but there is no 
difficulty in growing the best produce at home if seed 
is sown in heat or under glass in the same way as Celery, 
the seedlings being picked out when large enough, and 
finally planted out in rows, 2 feet apart and 12 inches 
between the plants. A rich root run is necessary, and 
ample food in the shape of liquid manure is well repaid 
as the plant is a gross feeder. I have in light land 
planted in rather deep drills, as grown thus it is an 
easy matter to feed and give moisture. The planting 



CELERIAC 



25 



out should be done in May or June, and the after- 
management is simple, merely hoeing between the plants 
and keeping the ground clean. In October the bulbs 
are ready for use, and they may be lifted, the tops 
twisted off, and then stored in fine ashes or soil in a cool 
store. I have in the southern part of the kingdom left 
the roots in their growing quarters and covered with 




litter or dry Bracken in severe weather. This is an 
advantage in some respects, as in the soil the roots keep 
much firmer and are sweeter or of a more nutty flavour. 
In planting it is well to remove all side growths, re- 
stricting to the one central growth. This must also be 
done occasionally in the summer months, and it may be 
necessary to remove a small portion of the top soil to 
get at the side or split growths. A few weeks before 
the plants are lifted it is a good plan to draw a little 
soil well into the foliage. This will cause the upper 
part of the root to get better coloured or partially 



26 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

blanched. I have referred to varieties, and there are 
three well worth naming. The Giant Prague, a large 
root, and one that is much grown in Germany. It is 
of good quality, being solid and a good keeper. The 
smaller Erfurt Celeriac, a most useful garden variety 
and of splendid quality. This is a favourite in the 
London market, and one of the varieties much imported. 
The Paris Ameliore, a variety much grown for the Paris 
markets, is also very good. There are several others, 
but those named are enough for all purposes, as they are 
the best. 

To Cook Celeriac 

To cook Celeriac, peel the roots, quarter them, and 
plunge them into plenty of boiling salted water and boil 
them till tender, either in the water used to blanch them, 
or else in weak stock. They are then served with a 
sauce according to taste. Celeriac, in the form of a 
puree, makes a useful garnish for poultry or cutlets. 

It is also delicious when cooked and served in the 
same way as Beetroot, being sliced and placed in vinegar ; 
or it may be sliced in a raw state and fried in butter till 
nearly brown. 



CHERVIL 

The ordinary garden Chervil {Chxrophyllum bulbosum) 
is more often grown than the bulbous-rooted form, or 
what is commonly called the vegetable Chervil. The 
latter is a hardy biennial and a native of Southern 
Europe, and in shape not unlike a Parsnip, or as regards 
size resembles an ordinary Short-Horn Carrot. I need 
not touch the fine leaved variety ; doubtless this will be 
described in the work on salads or herbs. It is used for 
soups, salads, and garnishing. The flavour of the bulbous- 
rooted form is very distinct from most other vegetables ; 
the flesh is a yellowish white, rather sweet but not un- 
pleasant, and more floury than the Parsnip. As an article 
of food it is well worth a trial in all gardens where 
variety in vegetables is valued, but the seed requires more 
time to germinate than many of our common vegetables, 
and therefore cannot be termed profitable, though the 
produce from a small piece of land often repays the 
grower. The best mode of culture, that is to get roots 
in one season, is to place the seed in the autumn in sand 
or fine soil in boxes. This placed in a frame or any frost 
proof position will cause the seeds to germinate quickly 
when sown in February or March the next season, as it 
is an easy matter to sow the seed mixed with the soil 
in drills 15 inches apart, thinning the plants to half that 
distance in the row. The plant thrives in any ordinary 
garden soil, and when in full growth soon forms a bulb 
and is fit for use. The older plan of sowing early in 
the autumn on an open quarter may be carried out in 
the southern parts of the country in well-drained soil. It 



28 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

is best to sow in September ; and grown thus the roots 
will be of good quality and ready to lift at the end of the 
summer, as they will show their maturity by the leaves 
colouring and decaying. It is well to store the roots 
when growth ceases in a cool root store or cellar, and 
not exposed to the light. They remain good a consider- 
able time, and the roots should be kept free of moisture. 

To Boil Chervil 

Wash and brush the roots, but do not cut them. 
Place them in a pan, pour over them sufficient boiling 
water to cover them, and let them simmer for about an 
hour and a half. 

To Fry Chervil 

Cook the roots as above for about an hour, then cut 
into long shreds and fry in butter. 



CHICK-PEA 

The Chick-pea {Cicer arietinum), commonly called the 
Egyptian Pea, and more largely used on the con- 
tinent than in this country, is an annual plant, a 
native of South Europe, and it is there largely culti- 
vated for its seeds, though in this country we rarely 
have warm or dry enough summers to ripen the 
seeds. There are several varieties, but as they only 
differ in the colour of the seeds I need not enumerate 
them ; still the various colours are valued for cooking 
purposes, and they are mostly employed in soups or 
purees, and though somewhat firm in texture they are 
much liked. Belonging to the Pea family the plant 
needs similar treatment as regards its culture. Sown in 
drills 3 feet apart, the seed in the drill being placed 
thinly, and the plants given good soil, they produce their 
small pods in abundance. These should be gathered 
before the seeds are quite ripe and given cool storage. 
They keep a long time, and the best pods are produced 
from spring-sown plants on an open sunny border. In 
the United States the plant does very well, and is more 
grown than in this country. 

To Cook Chick-Peas 

The dried seeds of the Chick-pea may be cooked in 
any of the ways usually employed to cook dry Peas. 
Excellent chick-pea soup and chick-pease-pudding can 
be made. Rarely, the seeds are roasted and used as a 
very vile substitute for coffee. 



CHICORY 



Chicory is a plant largely used for salad purposes, but 
it is also valuable as a vegetable when well served, as it 
possesses properties that are rare in other vegetables. 
Upon its use as a salad I do not intend to dwell as 
this will be described elsewhere. For vegetable uses 
it needs much the same culture, but a better plant is 
required to secure fine growth. 

Those persons who have an opportunity of seeing our 

large markets in 
,^j ,^K towns may have ob- 

iA (, *».> X'j -,'<*• served neat bundles 

»ii!'V '*^>."*^?fe o*" baskets of Chi- 
"^■vT* •*■* ? ;^S% ^ '^°'"y imported from 
the continent, the 
blanched growths 
being somewhat 
like Seakale, and 
that is the edible 
portion used as a 
vegetable. The 
green leaves not 
forced may also be used like Spinach, and they produce 
so freely in the spring, when ordinary Spinach is scarce, 
that they may be termed a good substitute. To get 
forced material the seeds are sown in April or May 
in deeply dug land, in rows 15 to 18 inches apart and 
the seedlings thinned to 9 inches in the row. In the 
late autumn the. roots are lifted as required and placed 
in a dark place or mushroom house, and the growths 




BROAD-LEAVED CHICORY 

i,One-eighth natural size) 




.-^ 








•!^ 



^•c 




Mw 



CHICORY ROOTS 



CHICORY 31 

are cut when from 4 to 6 inches long. It is the 
large or crown growth that is most valuable ; for salad 
purposes the smaller leafage is best. As regards 
varieties a large grower is most suitable, and doubtless 
the Whitloof, a variety much grown on the continent, 
is the best. This gives a larger growth than the com- 
mon Barbe de Capucin. There are not many kinds of 
the rooting varieties, but numerous ones of the leaf or 
salad or French Chicory, as under this name the Endives 
are grown in great variety. 

To Cook Chicory 

The green leaves of Chicory may be cooked in spring 
by scalding them for five or six minutes in boiling salted 
water, draining through acolander, throwingthe leaves into 
cold water, again draining, and then cutting up the leaves. 
The chopped leaves should next be placed in a saucepan 
containing ( for each pound of fresh Chicory leaves ) half 
an ounce of flour, a quarter of an ounce of butter, and a 
little pepper and salt, which has been heated over the 
fire for three or four minutes. Stir all together over a 
gentle fire for five minutes, and then add a teacupful of 
milk or broth, and stir over the fire till nearly dry. 
Take the pan from the fire and add about an ounce of 
butter, stir, and serve on a hot dish. Always use plenty 
of water in blanching the leaves. 

The blanched stems are cooked like Seakale. 



CHOU DE BURGHLEY 

This plant belongs to the Brassicas, and is part 
cabbage and part Brocoli, and is doubtless the result 
of a cross, but all the same is really a very excellent 
vegetable for autumn and winter supplies. This 
was raised by the late Mr Gilbert, a good grower 
of vegetables, and is well worth room in all gardens. 
As regards its quality few persons could find a more 
delicious vegetable, as the small hearts or Brocoli portion 
of the plant is really first rate, and if used as a cabbage 
it is excellent. It needs similar culture to the early 
Brocoli. Sown in March, and planted out in May, 2 
feet apart, in good land deeply dug and manured it does 
well. It is very hardy, and grows freely in the northern 
or exposed portions of the country. I have had two 
lots of plants, an early and later one ; and grown thus 
there is a long supply. 



coco 

The Coco {Colocasia escuknta) as an article of food 
would not be popular in this country, but in the tropics 
it is grown as a field plant under the name of Coco, 
and the tuberous root is used as food, being used much 
in the same way as the Sweet Potato, boiled, roasted, 
or baked, and at times the leaves in a young state 
are used as a vegetable. This plant in this country 
is mostly known as Caladium esculenta, and is not 
hardy though it does well planted out in the summer. 
Very good tubers of this variety were sent a few 
years ago to the Royal Horticultural Society to show 
its value as a vegetable. 



33 



COUVE TRONCHUDA 



CouvE Tronchuda, or Seakale Cabbage (Brasska 
oleracea costata), is by no means a popular vegetable or one 
much known or grown, and on this account it is given 
a place as it is useful for autumn supplies. It may 

be described as 
useful, as the 
heads make an 
excellent dish in 
the autumn, and 
it grows well in 
a good soil. It 
is an excellent 
cabbage if not 
grown in a cold 
or exposed situa- 
tion, and one that 
gives a good re- 
turn. The large 
full grown leaves are used in the same way as Seakale ; 
that is, the fleshy rind ribs of the plants may be cooked 
thus, and they make a really good vegetable if well 
cooked. 

The culture is the same as for the ordinary Brassica ; 
that is, seed is sown in the early spring and the seedlings 
transplanted when large enough, 2 feet apart each 
way. Grown in an open position they do well. 




B»AG;tNZA, PORTUGAL OR SEA-KALE CABBAGE 
{^One-twelfth natural size) 



DANDELION 

Dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) is not often used as a 
vegetable in this country, but is well worth cultivat- 
ing for that purpose. For salad purposes it is equally 
valuable, but my note concerns its uses in vegetable 
form, and grown for this purpose for use from March 




THICK-LEAVED, OR CABBAGING, DANDELION 

{Pne-iifth natural size) 

till June it is not at all bad. If the roots are lifted 
in November and stored in soil or sand they may be 
placed in a mushroom house or any dark place and 
the new growths are by many persons much liked as 
a vegetable ; but as grown thus much heat must not 
be employed, as the warmth causes a thickened leaf 
stalk, and it is the green leaf that is best for boiling. 
The common Dandelion is not recommended ; the large 
leaved French variety is far superior and this is very 

35 



2,6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

easily grown. There is also a very good variety, the 
improved broad-leaved ; this is even better than the 
French, as it does not run to seed so quickly, but as the 
plant for use as a vegetable is not needed for summer 
supplies its seeding is not important. The plants are 
best raised from seed sown in April in rows i8 inches 
apart, 9 inches between the plants in the row. It likes a 
moist soil and should be sown very thinly and thinned 
early. The plants left in their growing quarters will last 
for years, but much finer leafage is secured by sowing 
annually, not allowing the old plants to seed. 

To Cook Dandelion Leaves 

An excellent dish may be made by taking equal 
quantities of young Dandelion leaves and Sorrel leaves, 
cutting them into slices, placing the Dandelion leaves in 
a stewpan with a minimum of boiling water and stewing 
them till tender, then adding the Sorrel leaves and boiling 
till the whole of the water is absorbed or evaporated, 
the vegetables being quite soft, stirring in some butter, 
pepper and salt, mixing all well together, and serving it 
either alone or with poached eggs. 

Or the Dandelion leaves, having been boiled for about 
half an hour, may be lifted out in a strainer, plunged into 
cold water, gently pressed till fairly dry, and then 
chopped fine. The chopped leaves should next be placed 
in a pan containing an ounce of butter, a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, a tablespoonful of stock, and a little pepper and 
salt, well blended together. This mixture should be 
heated and stirred for about ten minutes, when a table- 
spoonful of cream or rich sauce should be added and the 
whole served. 



EGG PLANT 

The Aubergine or Egg Plant {Solatium melongend) is 
an annual half hardy plant, a native of South America 
and the tropical parts of Asia and Africa. It is widely 
distributed, and it has been known in this country for 
over three hundred years ; but we have not made 
much headway as regards its culture or its cooking. 
There are a goodly number of varieties, but very few 
are grown in this country. The Messrs Vilmorin, Paris, 
catalogue nearly a dozen. All are not egg shaped, some 
more resemble a Cucumber or miniature long Marrow. 
Others are round and really very handsome when grown 
as decorative plants ; and their varied colours, white, 
cream, and purple, and other shades, are very telling 
when grown in pots. The American kinds are larger 
than others. One, the New York Giant or Purple, is a 
very fine fruit, round and purplish in colour. This 
variety grows freely, and the quality is very fine. This 
is a standard dish in the country named, and given frame 
culture is one of the largest. It is well worth growing 
in this country. The Chinese Brinjal, or as it is better 
known the Aubergine blanche longue de la Chine of 
the French, is a very distinct fruit, a long white, and of 
more substance than some others. There is the ronde 
de Chine or Noire de Pekin, a nice-shaped fruit of a dark 
violet colour. This sets readily, and is a very good 
fruiter. The de Madras also is a variety well worth 
attention. This is an oblong fruit, violet coloured and 
of excellent table quality. The long Violet and the 
Black Pekin, a very dark purple fruit, are well-known 



38 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



kinds. The Black variety is one of the darkest colours 
grown, but the colour does not affect the quality. The 
small Violette naine is a pretty fruit, excellent for pot 
culture, and there are several white or cream coloured 
varieties. These vary in shape, and I have seen a 

reddish fruit but 
not grown it. 
They are cer- 
tainly a most in- 
teresting class of 
plants, and well 
deserving of at- 
tention. At one 
time they were 
only considered 
novelties, but 
there is no doubt 
whatever but that 
they are valuable 
for food, being a 
wholesome and 
delicious vege- 
table, and cer- 
t ai nly worth 
extended cultiva- 
tion. I have seen 
them grown for 
decorative purposes in anything but a happy condition. 
The plants, once they receive a check, are very sub- 
ject to red spiders. This points to the need of 
ample moisture in the house, as the pest will not 
thrive under this condition. Another evil is allowing 
the plants to be starved or pot bound. The best 
results are secured from plants grown in frames in 
rich soil planted out. In the Paris market gardens a 
great deal of attention is given to these plants; and 




LONG PURPLE EGG PLANT 

{One-fi/th natural size) 



EGG PLANT 39 

so many fruits are secured from plants grown in a 
small space, that they are really profitable. As a vege- 
table those who have lived in foreign parts are most 
partial to them, and they make a nice break in the 
ordinary supply of green foods ; and during the summer 
months many persons who have spare frames or pots 
could grow the Aubergine to advantage, and once grown 
they would, I feel sure, become favourites and always 
find a place. 

To get strong plants early it is well to sow seed in 
January or February in a warm house, giving the seeds 
bottom heat to cause rapid germination. In all cases at 
this time of year the plants should have a temperature 
of 6$ to 70 degrees, and if bottom heat is not given there 
must be careful watering till the seedlings are through 
the soil. As soon as the plants have made two leaves 
they should be transferred to small pots, one in each, 
and grown near the light. In a short time, say three 
weeks or so, the plants will be ready for another shift, 
and may then be placed in 6-inch pots and grown on as 
before, finally potting into 8 or 9-inch pots. These latter 
are for fruiting in. The soil should be fairly rich ; that 
is, a good loam, to which should be added fertilisers or 
well-decayed manure, and this applies more to the later 
pottings than to the early. It is also important to keep 
the plants moving ; that is, at no time during their early 
stages of growth should they be allowed to get pot 
bound as this would cause a few stray fruits to set, and 
loss of crop. During the time the plants are maturing 
their fruits there should be liberal supplies of liquid 
manure, but this should be discontinued as soon as the 
fruits have attained their full size, or show signs of 
colouring. The plants should always be grown on a 
single leg or stem at the start, and when strong enough 
they should have the points taken out to cause a branched 



40 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

growth and show fruit. Four to six fruits are ample. 
After these are secured, later fruits and lateral growth 
should be stopped, the plants syringed overhead twice 
daily and kept free of insect pests. 

The above-described culture is for pot plants, but I 
think the best results are obtained from plants planted out 
in beds, not unlike Capsicums, or treated like Vegetable 
Marrows given frame culture. By planting out, a greater 
number of fruits are secured from the plants, as they 
begin to fruit in June and continue bearing till late in 
the summer. Some growers sow their seed in the hot 
bed and thin out others in pots, and plant out when the 
bed is at the right temperature. In all cases there must 
be a warm bed to get the best results ; not too hot, but 
made so that the fermenting materials retain the heat as 
long as possible. In this country I have seen excellent 
results by growing in frames. A bed is prepared in March 
and on this is placed a frame, with from 4 to 6 inches 
of good soil. When this latter is warmed through, the 
seedlings should be planted, having previously been raised 
in small pots. Each plant is made firm and may be 
allowed 2 feet space and the sashes kept closed for a few 
days, shading the plants, giving ventilation carefully as 
the plants increase in growth, damping overhead freely 
late in the afternoon, and stopping shoots and thinning the 
plants later on. At midsummer the sashes may be re- 
moved entirely, but there must be no lack of water or 
food, as red spider generally attacks the plants if at all 
dry, and if this is allowed to spread the fruits fail to set 
or swell. Scale also attacks the plants if they are in any 
way neglected during growth. In cold or exposed places 
I would advise sowing early and giving frame culture 
from start to finish. On the other hand, in the southern 
part of the country the plants will fruit in the open 
ground if planted out in rich soil. 



EGG PLANT 41 

To Cook Aubergines or Egg Plants 

According to Wyvern, the ordinary method of pre- 
paring this vegetable {brinjal) in India is as follows : — 
The pods are cut in halves lengthways, the fleshy part 
scooped out, put on a plate, and mashed up with butter, 
seasoned with salt and pepper and minced hard-boiled 
egg added; the hollowed half pods are then filled with 
this mixture, laid out upon a baking sheet, brushed over 
with melted butter, and baked in a moderate oven with 
heat above and below them; then lifted with a shce, laid 
in a Ugumiere and served — theyar« being altered at dis- 
cretion, grated cheese used for the surface, etc. 

Another excellent recipe of Wyvern's is for 

Aubergines Sautees 

For this httle brinjals as used for curry, whole, are 
the best — gathered before the seeds have developed. 
Blanch for five minutes and then simmer gently in milk 
and water till tender ; lift, drain, lay them in a buttered 
sautoir, and turn them about over low fire like haricots 
verts sautes to expel moisture, set them in a hot 
legumiere, sprinkle with parsley and melted butter, and 
serve. For this the butters may be varied — maitre (Thotel 
ravigote, etc. 

The following recipe is borrowed from The Queen : — 

Aubergines a la Turque 

Cut the ends from the egg plant, and remove the 
centre of the fruit with a teaspoon, replacing this with 
a mixture of equal parts of cold cooked rice and minced 
cooked meat, seasoning with blanched and finely minced 
onion, freshly ground black pepper, and salt ; now fry 
the fruit with a bouquet (thyme, parsley, bay leaf, etc.) 
in oil, butter, or clarified dripping, for two or three 



42 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

minutes, then drain it, lay in a stewpan with sufficient 
thin tomato sauce to cover it and the bunch of herbs, 
and stew gently till tender ; then remove the herbs and 
dish the vegetable on a hot dish with the tomato sauce 
over and round it. 



EVENING PRIMROSE 



The Evening Primrose {CEnothera biennis) is a plant 
more commonly considered as a flowering plant than 
as a vegetable, and is but rarely grown for eating ; 
as such indeed I have 
never seen it grown in 
this country. On the 
continent, especially in 
Germany, it is cultiva,ted 
for its roots, which are 
cooked in a variety of 
ways. The roots are 
fleshy, and are used niuch 
in the same way as Sal- 
sify; and I have heard that 
they are valuable on ac- 
count of their easy diges- 
tibility, and that they are 
nourishing also. They 
are mostly boiled, and 
when cold may be mixed 
with salad like Celeriac 
or Beetroot. Doubtless 
there are many parts that 
are edible among the large 
flowering plants. Take the Helianthus, for instance. 
The seeds have been used for food ; they also yield oil 
that promises to be valuable as an article of commerce, 
and the large leafy kinds have been used for cattle. 
The Evening Primrose, if grown for its roots, 

43 




EVENING PRIMROSE 
{IJne-fifth natural size) 



44 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

may be sown in the spring on land well prepared, 
and the seedlings when large enough transplanted 
in rows 2 feet apart, and kept free of weeds, and not 
allowed to suffer in their early stages of growth for 
lack of moisture. The plants, I am told by a grower on 
the continent, should not be taken up but lifted as re- 
quired for use in the autumn, covering over with litter 
in severe weather ; if stored in a warm store the roots are 
much inferior in flavour. They remain good from 
October till March, and make a distinct vegetable at the 
season named, and they are liked in soups and stews or 
made dishes. They are certainly worth a trial, as they 
are easily grown in this country. 

To Cook Evening Primrose Roots 

These roots may be cooked in any of the ways advised 
for Chervil. Also see the various recipes for cooking 
Salsify in " The Book of Asparagus." 



FENNEL 



Fennel (Foenkulum finochio) is a perennial plant, a 
native of Southern Europe, not much grown in this 
country, but a favourite in Italy. The above variety 
must not be confounded with the Aromatic Fennel, a 
plant largely used 
for fish sauces and 
garnishing and for 
flavouring, the seeds 
being used largely 
for the last named 
purpose. The 
Finochio variety is 
distinct from the 
common variety, its 
leaf stalks are 
thicker and round, 
and it is used both 
in a raw state some- 
what like blanched 
celery or boiled 
with meat and also is 
eaten with macaroni. 
It requires a deep soil and is best sown in drills i8 
inches apart and the seedlings thinned to half that 
distance in the row. It likes a fairly rich moist soil, as 
in dry or poor soil the growths are firmer and less 
palatable. The leaf stalks are moulded up a month 
before using. This blanches the lower part and makes a 
most serviceable and distinct vegetable. It grows very 

45 




FINOCHIO, OR FLORENCE FENNEL 

{.One-fifth natural size) 



46 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

quickly and there may be three or four sowings from 
April to July or August, and by these means a succes- 
sion of plants will be secured. The plants will be 
fit for use in three months from time of sowing the 
seed if the land is well done and ample moisture given 
in dry weather. There may be supplies well into 
December if autumn plants are desired, as by sowing 
in August, the plants may be protected in November if 
the weather is severe by covering with bracken or by 
lifting and placing in a cool root store. 

To Cook Fennel 

Fennel is now chiefly used for garnishing mackerel 
and certain other fish, or is minced and added to melted 
butter as a sauce for these fish. Its dried seeds are also 
used in the preparation of a liqueur known as fenouillette. 
The leaf-stalks — especially of the Finochio variety — may 
be used either raw, after the manner of Celery, or as 
a cooked vegetable, being placed in boiling water and 
boiled for about half an hour, or until tender. 



GOOD KING HENRY 

Good King Henry {Chenopodium bonus Henricus) is 
better known as Mercury, and is probably one of 
the easiest grown vegetables we have, but not well 
known or much grown, though in a few counties 
on the eastern coast it is a great favourite ; indeed, 
in Lincolnshire there are few gardens of any size but 
grow a bed of King Henry, and I have heard it called 
Lincolnshire Asparagus. The plant is perennial, a native 
of Britain, and is found in many parts of Europe, and is a 
very wholesome vegetable, and later on when the top 
growth of the plants has become large the young 
leaves if gathered make a very good dish and is often 
used in place of Spinach. The plant well repays good 
cultivation, though I have seen it growing in the same 
spot for years, and of course grown thus the leafage is 
small. The plant grown in good soil produces shoots ; 
these, cut in a young state and tied up in bunches, some- 
what resemble Asparagus. If at all old, the skin toughens 
quickly and it is then necessary to remove the skin before 
cooking. It is in season from April till June, and should 
be grown in a warm position, doing best in well drained 
soil. Seeds may be sown in a bed in spring and the seed- 
lings planted out in rows 2 feet apart and i8 inches 
between the plants, the quarter having been deeply dug 
and manured the previous winter. I have also divided 
plants from old beds or roots, selecting the best roots, 
and these given new soil soon make headway and give a 
large quantity of shoots. It should be more grown for 



48 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

its value as a spring vegetable, as it comes in at a time 
of year when there is a scarcity. 

To Cook Good King Henry 

The leaves should be well washed, placed in a stew- 
pan with a minimum of water, and boiled for a quarter 
of an hour. A little salt should then be added, and the 
boiling continued for another five minutes. It should 
then be carefully drained and chopped fine. A little 
butter, a little less flour, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch 
of salt should then be placed in a stewpan and heated 
for a few minutes. Add the chopped vegetables and 
boil for five minutes longer. The young shoots of the 
Good King Henry may be cut from April to June, tied 
in bunches, and boiled like asparagus, which they some- 
what resemble in taste. 



HOP 

The ordinary Hop plant (JJumulas lupulus) is not much 
used as a vegetable, but it is not an inferior dish if used 
in a young state. The shoots when from 4 to 5 inches 
long are the parts used, and these are boiled and eaten 
like Asparagus. As an article of commerce the dried 
Hop is most valuable, and its use in brewing is well 
known. It is a perennial plant and indigenous to this 
country, and not only valuable in its dried state but 
often used in gardens as a screen to hide buildings or 
unsightly objects. I need not go into its cultivation as 
it is grown on a large scale in the south and western 
counties of England. 



To Boil Hops 

The tender young shoots are to be tied into bundles, 
placed into boiling salted water and gently boiled for 
about twenty minutes. They may be served after the 
manner of Asparagus into beurre fondu or other simple 
sauce. The cold boiled Hops may be used as a salad. 



To Fry Hops 

Prepare as above, and boil for twelve minutes. Drain, 
and allow to cool. Then flour them, dip in egg and 
bread crumb, and fry in boiling oil. Serve with salt. 



HORSE RADISH 

HoK.SE Radish {Cochlearia armoracia). A hardy perennial 
naturalised in this country, largely used more as an 
addition or flavouring for cooked meat than in any 
other form ; and though exception may be taken to 
it as a vegetable, it is largely used as an article of 
food, both raw and in a prepared condition. It is of 
much value owing to its good keeping properties, as 
roots lifted and stored in sand will keep a long time. 
Another point not to be overlooked is that it is anti- 
scorbutic and much valued by mariners, as it keeps good 
a long time when on long voyages, and it is found to be 
of great value. As regards its growth, it will grow 
when other things fail, indeed in old gardens it is most 
difficult to get rid of it if allowed to remain a number of 
years in one place. On the other hand, the roots grown 
thus, as regards quality cannot compare with those given 
what may be termed proper culture. Properly grown, the 
roots are long, thick, straight, and of much better flavour, 
being less stringy and more tender. The plant is much 
better when grown for a short time in one place, and to 
do it justice it likes ample depth and food also. It is 
often left to chance, to grow anyhow in one corner of the 
garden and dug up as required ; it is far better to plant a 
small quarter yearly, destroying the oldest and laying in 
for use the best roots. There are great quantities of these 
roots imported from abroad. This is not at all necessary, 
as I have seen as good results in the Thames Valley as 
the best imported roots from Holland, from whence the 
London markets receive large consignments. The plant 



HORSE RADISH 



51 



does best in a rather moist soil, deep and not too 
heavy. 

The culture for home supplies requires but small space, 
and early in the spring is best to make new beds. The 
land should be trenched, liberal 
layers of manure being placed 
under the second spit ; cow 
manure is excellent for light 
land. The work of trenching 
or manuring is best done some 
time in advance of planting. One 
year's growth will produce good 
roots, but by extending the time, 
allowing another season, much 
finer roots are obtained, but more 
astringent. The best time for 
planting is early in the spring, 
and if the land has been pre- 
pared some time, it is best to 
use a dibble, making the holes 
much deeper than the set. In 
selecting the latter, care should 
be taken to have clean growths 
free of eyes or offsets, as these 
cause a forked growth and are not liked. I have 
also seen good crops from the crown growth : that is, 
the tops are cut with a bit of root attached a few inches 
long, all side shoots carefully removed, and they certainly 
made a good plant grown thus. "When root cuttings are 
used, these should be clean, straight pieces, 9 to 12 
inches long, and these may be prepared in the autumn 
and tied in small bundles, and laid in sand till planting 
time. I find this preferable to lifting roots direct out of 
the soil and planting. A bed will last for years, but 
much better results will follow annual planting if only 
on a small scale, and in no case should a bed be left 




HORSE RADISH 

iOtte-Jifth natural size) 



52 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

longer than three years, as the root growth after that 
time does not thicken, but divides and gets harder and 
less valuable. 

To Make Horse Radish Sauce 

Simmer a small teacupful of finely rasped Horse Radish 
in half a pint of broth. Then thicken, by adding the 
yolks of two eggs beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar. Add a little pepper and salt and 
serve. To make cold Horse Radish sauce, add to a small 
teacupful of gratings, half a pint of mayonnaise. Serve 
as cold as possible. 



LENTILS 

The Lentil {Ervum lens) is an annual plant, a native 
of southern Europe, largely cultivated in the warmer 
countries and certainly a most valuable vegetable in a 
dried state, being exceedingly nutritious and one that 
can be eaten by invalids. It is not much cultivated in 
this country, at least in private gardens, and though by 
many persons the seeds are considered indigestible, a 
great deal depends upon the cooking ; indeed this plant 
supplies the valuable Revalenta arabica of commerce, a 
food of great value. The plant is also much grown 
near Paris and the large towns of France, and in that 
country is largely used as food. The outer skin is very 
hard, and this got rid of, there is no question of its value 
as food, as then it is nutritious and may be used for 
soups and is cooked in various ways. In habit it some- 
what resembles the Pea, to which it is closely allied, 
and has the same nourishing properties when the seeds 
are ripe and fit for use. I have no knowledge of this 
plant being grown for use when in the green state. 
I have seen it used in a partially ripe state for soups, 
I mean before the pod hardened, but I should prefer 
Marrow Peas to Lentils, and doubtless its value is in 
its dried state and its long keeping properties. I have 
kept seed for three years after gathering. By hanging 
up the haulm in a cool, dry shed, the seeds keep 
well in the husk or pod. The pod is much shorter 
than the ordinary Pea, having a blunt end. The plant 
thrives best in a light, warm, or well drained soil, not too 
rich, as in the latter it makes a straggling growth and 



54 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



fails to pod freely. There can be no doubt but that the 
best produce is secured from plants given field culture, as 
here in an open position the growth is firmer and 

a better bloom 
secured. In a close 
garden with a rich 
root run I do not 
advise their culture, 
though I have seen 
good results on 
sloping banks, the 
seeds being sown 
so that the plants 
had free exposure. 
As regards the cul- 
ture for seeds in a 
dried state on a 
very small scale, 
seed is best sown 
in the spring, March 
or April is the most 
suitable month, and 
the seed is best 
sown in drills 2 feet 
apart and not sown 
thickly. The stalks 
will change colour 
as the seeds or pods reach maturity ; the latter change 
to a dark colour and may then be pulled up and dried in 
the sun for a few days, turning over daily to get rid of 
any moisture, taking care to give the haulm a dry, cool 
place free of drip when storing. The Lentils may be 
thrashed out later when required for use. 

To Cook Lentils 
Having been soaked in cold water for eight or ten 
hours, Lentils are cooked by placing in cold water and 




LARGE YELLOW LENTIL 

{One-tenth natural size ; detached branch, 
natural size) 



LENTILS 55 

boiling for two or three hours till tender. For the two 
following recipes, readers are indebted to that excellent 
book, " Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen." 

Lentils " alla Corona " 
After boiling one pint of Lentils with a bouquet of 
sweet herbs, strain them. Meanwhile, mince some ham 
with a very little onion and put it to brown with some 
butter ; then add one or two ladlefuls of good stock, 
boil, and strain. Pour this sauce over the. Lentils with a 
good piece of butter, salt and pepper to taste, heat them, 
and garnish boiled beef or pork with them. 

Lentils "in Istufato" 
Put an earthen pot on the fire, and just before the 
water boils throw in one pint of Lentils. As it boils 
skim off the Lentils which float to the surface, and con- 
tinue to do this until all are taken out ; the few which 
remain at the bottom of the pot must be strained through 
a sieve. Chop up two anchovies, place them in a sauce- 
pan with some pure oil and butter and a little minced 
shallot, brown them well, put in the Lentils, and then add 
some good stock or soup. When cooked, serve up hot. 

To Stew Lentils 
Wash quarter of a pound of Lentils well in several 
waters, then put them into a basin with a pint of fresh 
cold water. Cover the basin with a plate or piece of 
paper and stand overnight. Next day put them into a 
saucepan with the water in which they were soaked and 
one onion very finely chopped. Cook slowly from one 
to one and a half hours or until the Lentils are quite soft, 
stirring frequently with a spoon. When ready, take the 
lid off the pan and boil for a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until the mixture is quite thick. Add one ounce 
of butter, and season to taste with pepper and salt. 
Serve very hot. (Miss Florence Jack's recipe.) 



MAIZE 

Maize — or Indian Corn (Zea mays) — is a favourite 
vegetable in America, and can be cultivated in this 
country with great success if the seeds are sown under 
glass and planted out in rich soil. It is cultivated in all 
parts of the world, but less in Europe than in others ; 
doubtless in this country our short summers are not 
favourable, but when it is considered what a number of 
vegetables we raise under glass, there is no difficulty in 
growing very fine cobs of this useful cereal. Some of 
the dwarfer varieties are more suitable in this country 
than the very large ones, which need a much longer 
summer season to mature the growth. By this I do not 
mean that the corn must be ripe, as in this state it is not 
used as a vegetable, but the grains in the stalk must be 
fully developed, though used in a green state. Of late 
years our home seedsmen have turned their attention to 
the Maize, offering some of the best or most suitable 
kinds for culture in this country, and I will note a few of 
them. In addition there is the Japanese striped variety, 
valuable as a decorative plant, and much used on the 
continent, indeed there are few plants that are more 
beautiful. A few seasons ago I had twelve distinct 
varieties of the vegetable forms sent me from the States 
and they were very good indeed, not one failed to make 
cobs and some grew very quickly, but I failed to ripen 
seed ; our summers do not permit this. The earliest 
variety I have grown is the Early Yellow or Six Weeks, 
grown in the States under the name of Quarantain ; this 
is a ^5 feet variety and ripens well in this country. 

5« 



MAIZE 



SI 



Another very fine early corn is one that the Messrs 
Sutton of Reading have imported into this country. This 
is hardier and known as Sutton's Early Dwarf; it 
is a very full 
flavoured corn 
and makes a 
delicious vege- 
table. The 
White Pyrenean 
is also early and 
a 3 feet variety, 
having whitish 
brown seeds, and 
is a very com- 
pact grower. 1 
omitted to state 
that I have with- 
out difficulty 
ripened seeds of 
the Sutton Early 
Dwarf. This is 
a great gain, as 
it shows its early 
maturity and its 
great value for 
private gardens 
in this country. 
Other early kinds 
are Adam's Early, 
a 3 feet, thick, ""'" 

short cob, and of good quality. Crosby's Early Sugar, 
Early Dwarf Sugar, and Early Tom Thumb are good -, the 
latter is a dwarf splendid variety. There are many others 
well worth growing, such as Triumphant, Minnesota, 
Metropolitan, and More's Concord and Country Gentle- 
man ; these latter are favourites in the United States. 




58 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

All are of very simple culture, but they need a rich soil, 
sun, and abundance of moisture when in active growth. 
Seeds sown in March or April will be ready to plant 
out the end of May. It is best to sow three seeds or 
more in small pots and thin to the strongest. Sown in 
frames under glass they soon germinate and are ready 
to plant out when large enough. If desired, three plants 
may be raised in larger pots and planted in clumps of 
three, a yard apart. I prefer single plants and 2 feet 
apart all ways. Seed may also be sown in prepared 
trenches in the open ground early in May and they will 
do well in a favourable season. The plants should have 
a sunny position and get ample supplies of water. 

To Cook Maize 

Strip off the husk and stalk, and put the Maize into 
boiling water without salt. Boil for ten minutes or a 
little more, and serve with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Or the Maize may be separated from the cob, boiled 
and drained, and then tossed in melted butter with a 
little salt and pepper. Chopped parsley or grated 
cheese may be added just before serving. 



MOUNTAIN SPINACH 

Brach atriplex hortensis, commonly called Mountain 
Spinach, a hardy annual, a native of Tartary. The leaves 
are used like Spinach, but it is not equal in flavour and 
soon runs to seed, so that frequent sowings are necessary. 
This plant will grow in any soil, but the leaves are much 
better, being more succulent, when grown in a good soil. 
There are four varieties in cultivation, the white, the 
green, and a pale and a dark red. The varieties do notdifFer 
much in quality, but I think the green varieties the best 
for garden uses. Seed sown in February will give leaves 
in May, or monthly sowings may be made of a succession 
if desired. The seed should be sown in drills 2 feet 
apart and thinned to 18 inches in the row. It is best 
kept free from seeding by picking off the flower spikes. 

To Stew Spinach 

Spinach having been washed in cold water and dried by 
swinging the leaves round in the air, may be stewed in 
the following way : — 

Place it in a pan of boiling water, whence remove it 
at the end of four minutes. Throw the Spinach next 
into cold water and well dry it in the colander. Chop 
it up moderately finely, and place in a stewpan with salt, 
pepper, and butter (half an ounce to the pound). Place 
over the fire and stir till the butter is melted. Add a 
little stock (a teacupful to the pound), and allow to 
simmer for ten minutes. Add a little lemon juice and 



6o THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

serve. Spinach cooked in this way may be spread on 
toast and surmounted by poached eggs. 

Spinach may be served whole by placing it, without 
water, in a vessel surrounded by boiling water for about 
twenty minutes. Dry with a warm cloth and serve. 



NASTURTIUM 

Nasturtium (Tropxolum, majus, minus and tuberosum). 

There are two varieties of the ordinary Nasturtium used as 

vegetables, the large form of Majus and the smaller kind 

Minus : the one is more common than the other, indeed 

the larger variety may be seen in most gardens being 

grown for ornament or for use in salads and pickles. Both 

kinds, Majus and Minus, are natives of Peru, and are 

perennial, but here they are treated as annuals, and some 

of the more recently introduced varieties, which are 

doubtless selections from the older forms, are really 

very beautiful garden plants. My note more concerns 

their value as vegetables than as salad plants. For 

the latter purpose, leaves and flowers are used, but 

it is the fruits which are doubtless more useful, and 

these are largely used when pickled in vinegar and by 

many persons are preferred to Capers, which they very 

much resemble. In their native regions, where the 

plants grow very quickly, the green portion of the plants 

is at times used as a vegetable and the points of the 

shoots eaten for salads. Their culture is most simple, 

but the plant does best in a light soil with a warm 

aspect, and though they may be grown in almost any 

corner of the garden, they well repay good culture if 

grown for their fruit. Seed is best sown in the spring, 

and if grown to stakes like Peas they bear heavy crops 

and flower and continue to form fruits till cut down by 

frost. Grown in rows, at least 4 feet should be allowed 

between the rows for the first named Majus, as it obtains 

a height of 8 feet or more, and the plants delight in 

61 



62 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



abundant supplies of water in dry weather. The 
tuberous variety is very distinct and but little grown in this 
country. The edible portion is the tuber that forms 
at the root, not the fruit, as in the first named varieties. 
I have seen this variety grown in a few gardens, but it has 
a very peculiar flavour when cooked ; indeed some may 

and do like them who have 
travelled abroad, but they 
certainly will never become 
common in our gardens, as 
the weight of crop does not 
make them profitable. This 
plant is a perennial and a 
native of Peru and the tubers 
produced are showy, being 
yellow and red and not un- 
like a Potato, but usually 
smaller at one end. In South 
America this is a favourite 
dish, but I think much care 
must be expended upon their 
cooking, and in the countries 
referred to they are frozen 
after being cooked and are 
then a favourite dish, indeed 
they are a standing dish in 
hot weather and much sought 
after as a light refreshment. The culture is simple. 
The plant is a climber and requires support. It is 
best grown from eyes like the Potato, as one good- 
sized tuber will make several sets. In dry soils it may 
be allowed to grow on the soil, but in others, stakes 
should be given. It requires a fairly light, rich soil, and 
it is best planted in the spring, the sets being placed 4 
feet apart, and it is fit for use in October, as at that time 
the leaves will begin to turn colour. I have seen this 




TUBEROUS-ROOTED NASTURTIUM 
( Tubers^ Jtalf natural size) 



NASTURTIUM 62, 

variety grown well in pots and frames, in cold wet situa- 
tion, and grown thus it is an easy matter to feed. The 
tubers keep for some time when quite ripe if lifted and 
given cool storage in sand or fibre, and may be had in 
season from October till March, and for seed purposes it 
is well to keep them on shelves, but frost proof. 

To Pickle Nasturtium Seeds 

Gather the seeds whilst green, wash them, dry them, 
and put them in bottles. Boil together a pint of vinegar, 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and 
two chillies. When cold, pour it over the seeds, and 
cork and seal. This is fit for use in six weeks. 



NETTLE 



The common Nettle is not often used as a vegetable 
in this country, but it is not at all bad if gathered 
in a young state — I mean before the growths get 

hardened and become 
harsh and flavourless. The 
plant is more used in 
country places than in 
towns ; indeed I fear many 
town-dwellers would hesi- 
tate to collect or cook the 
plant, but it would not be 
refused as a vegetable by 
many who did not know 
what it was. It is also 
largely employed in mak- 
ing a wholesome drink, 
known as nettle tea or 
beer. As regards its cul- 
ture, unfortunately it is 
too common and difficult to get rid of when thor- 
oughly established, and therefore cultivation is out of 
the question. 

To Cook Nettles 

The young tender shoots should be well washed, 
dried, and tied in neat bundles.. They should then be 
steamed till tender — generally for about twenty minutes 
— and then served with beurre fondu or other simple sauce. 

. 64 




CHINA-GRASS SILVERY NETTLE 



NEW ZEALAND SPINACH 



New Zealand Spinach (Tetragona expansa) is quite dis- 
tinct from the ordinary Spinach, but so valuable a summer 
vegetable that I have included it in this book. I noted 




r^-^^^^^-^ ^:- 



NEW ZEALAND SPINACH 



{One-twel/ih natural size; detached branch^ one-fourth 
natural size) 

its value in vol. vii. to extend the season when other 
kinds fail, but I did not go into cultural details, and these 
I will make as brief as possible. This, as its name im- 
plies, is a native of New Zealand and was brought into 
cultivation by Sir I. Banks, and is valuable in hot summer 

E ^5 



66 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

or in dry hot soils where the ordinary plants fail. It is 
useful as a vegetable in a boiled state and valuable for 
colouring purposes. It likes a light, rich soil, and ample 
space, 3 feet between the plants. We sow under glass in 
small pots and plant out early in June. It may also be 
sown in the open the middle of May, but sown under 
glass the plant gives earlier produce and at a time it is 
more valuable. It is best grown on the flat on a south 
border, and grown thus will give a supply till cut down 
by frost. 



SOME ONIONS 

The Potato Onion is not largely cultivated in some 

parts of the kingdom ; in others it is a great favourite, 

especially in small gardens, and more so in the southern 

part of the kingdom. It is called the Underground 

Onion also, and as regards culture it somewhat resembles 

the Shallot, but is distinct. All the three varieties here 

described are different from the ordinary kinds, and they 

are useful as they rarely fail. The small bulbs of the 

Potato variety are planted singly, and in warm situations, 

such as Devon or Cornwall, it is usually the rule to 

plant on the shortest day and take up the crop on the 

longest ; but this rule does not hold good in heavy land 

or cold situations, as March would be early enough to 

plant and August to lift. The bulbs are planted in 

well-manured land, in rows 1 8 inches apart and half 

that distance between the plants ; the soil is made fairly 

firm previous to planting, and the bulbs are pressed 

down in the soil and made firm. The plant or old 

bulb forms clusters of young bulbs round the old one, 

and when extra fine roots are desired, it is a good plan 

to place spent manure between the rows or feed with 

liquid manure or a quick acting fertiliser. By mulching 

or earthing up when the growths are a good size, the 

plant is induced to form better clusters, and at that time 

there should be no lack of moisture till the young bulbs 

are full sized, and only withheld as they begin to ripen. 

When stored they will remain sound a long time if 

placed in a cool airy store. This variety is not raised 

from seed, and it is more valuable for early supplies 

than later, as the other varieties are then more plentiful. 

67 



68 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

The Egyptian or Tree Onion, often called the Garden 
Rocambole, throws up stems from the bulb which is 
planted, and on this is produced a number of small bulbs 
at the top of the main stem ; these being in a cluster, 
they are much liked for pickling. The plant often 
produces nearly a dozen small onions at the top of the 
stems when well grown. These when ripe keep for 
months if suspended from a roof in a cool place. The 
cultivation is simple. The plants may be propagated from 
the bulbs formed in the soil or from those on the stem 
placed in shallow drills early in the spring, as advised 
for the Potato Onion, but less room will suffice for the 
bulbs planted from the stem, 6 inches apart being 
sufficient. The growths need supports as the Onions 
form, and the plant matures its growth much better 
when supported. They like a rich, light soil, and at the 
planting it is necessary to make them firm in the soil as 
often birds pull up the loose bulbs. 

The "Welsh Onion is the Allium pistulosum, a 
herbaceous perennial, a native of Siberia, and very hardy. 
There are two distinct varieties, the red and white, and 
it differs from the common Onion as it never bulbs ; the 
roots are long and tapering, with strong fibres, and its 
stems and leaves are hollow. Its value in the garden 
is mostly to furnish young growths for salads in the 
spring, and for stews and soups in a green state. Used in 
this way it is liked for its mild flavour, and as it starts 
into growth much earlier than our garden varieties, being 
so much hardier, it is useful. Sown in July or August 
it will give a spring supply ; sown broadcast a small bed 
will suffice. We grow it near the herbs ; it makes a good 
border plant. 

To Bake Onions 

Take any of the milder flavoured Onions of good size 
and, having removed the outer coats, boil them for about 



SOME ONIONS 69 

forty-five minutes ia water. Dry the Onions with a 
cloth, place them on a baking dish, surmount each with 
a small piece of butter, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake for an hour. Serve with beurre fondu, or plain 
butter. Season with salt and pepper. 

To Stew Onions 

Peel them and place them in stock (two quarts to six 
large Onions) seasoned with salt and pepper. Allow to 
simmer until they are quite tender. Reduce the stock, 
pour it over the Onions, and serve. 

Onions and Cheese 

Take some large Spanish Onions, skin them, and boil 
them until they are quite soft. Drain them in a 
colander, and then pass them through a sieve. Place 
the mashed Onions in a pan together .with (to each Onion) 
an ounce of butter, an ounce of grated cheese, and a 
little pepper and salt. Allow the mixture to simmer 
for a few minutes, stirring the while, and then serve. 

Instead of placing the pulped Onions in a stewpan, 
they may be placed with the butter, pepper, and salt, 
and a little stock or milk (two tablespoonfuls to each 
Onion) in a pie-dish, the cheese being grated over the 
surface, and place in the oven till baked a nice brown. 

Stuffed Onions 

This is a recipe given by Mrs de Salis. 

Peel a couple of fair-sized Portugal Onions, parboil 
and drain them ; scoop out the centre, but keeping the 
Onions whole. Chop up the inside of the Onion with a 
little meat and a little fat bacon ; add some bread- 
crumbs, a sprig of parsley, and a small piece of lemon 
peel, chopped fine ; add pepper and salt to taste ; then 



70 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

beat it all up to a paste with a well-beaten egg and stuff 
the Onions with it, dredge them with flour, and fry them 
a nice brown ; then place them in a stewpan with a rich 
brown gravy to cover them, and let them stew gently 
for two hours. 



OXALIS CRENATA 

There are two distinct forms of Oxalis used for vege- 
table purposes ; the one named above is a tuberous 
rooted plant, a native of Peru, but introduced into this 
country in 1829. There are several varieties of the 
Oxalis grown in the country named under the name of 
Oka and some of these are not of much value here, re- 
quiring warmer soils than ours. Deppi, the other 
variety, I will describe later on ; it is not so much liked as 
Crenata. Many persons would not consider these 
vegetables equal to our own ; others, who have lived in 
the countries named, have a better opinion of their merits. 
They possess a peculiar acid taste, but the acidity is re- 
moved by care in cooking ; indeed many of our own 
vegetables which are strongly flavoured would be much 
better if the water in which they are boiled were 
changed when about three parts boiled. The tubers of 
the Oxalis are produced freely and are, when well grown, 
of the size of a large walnut, having a smooth skin and 
eyes in profusion, and a yellow skin in one case and a dull 
reddish one in the other. The tubers are long and pointed, 
somewhat like the Chinese Artichoke. The plant is 
extensively cultivated in the temperate parts of Bolivia 
and at times is exported to this country, but I fear the 
sale is not a large one, and our cooking deters many buy- 
ing them, as they need more than ordinary care. In the 
countries named they are cooked by steam, being placed on 
straw beds, which keeps the tubers from contact with the 
water. In Bolivia they are exposed to the sun for some 
days. By exposure, much of the acidity is removed, the 

71 



72 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

tuber being much sweeter and more floury, like Potatoes. 
The tubers command a much better price than the Potato, 
and at La Pax are largely cultivated ; the soil being most 
fertile, they grow freely. At Lima the leaves and tops of 
the plant are used as a salad, and even in this country I 
have seen it used in the same way as Spinach or Sorrel ; 
indeed it somewhat resembles the last named plant, as it 
contains a considerable quantity of oxaHc acid. The 
young stems of this plant, also others of the species, 




TUBERS OF OKA-PLANT, OXALIS CRHNATA 
i.One~third natural size) 

have been used in tarts ; but I should add, used thus the 
tarts would need a lot of sweetening or flavouring. The 
culture is peculiar ; the aim is to get as many tubers as 
possible from the stems. The soil must be light, rich, 
and warm, and the tuber is propagated like the Potato, 
leaving an eye to each tuber. Cuttings also take root 
freely if placed in a warm bed in March or April and 
planted out in May and June in rows 3 feet apart and 2 
feet between the plants. The shoots are best earthed 
up as growth is made, and this is continued several times 
till the early autumn — September — when the tubers begin 
to form. They will be ready for use in November and 
may be kept good for months if taken up and stored in 
sand in a cool place, kept quite dry, as damp or frost soon 
decays the tubers. The plant does not thrive in wet or 



OXALIS CRENATA 73 

heavy soil ; and though the plant in good soil grows freely, 
I mean the top growth is ample, the tubers are not 
numerous unless the position is favourable and the 
summer most favourable. The best position should be 
given the plants, and at the start much time is gained by 
potting up the tuber and starting under glass. 

I have referred to the other variety, Deppi, a perennial 
plant and a native of Mexico introduced much at the 
same time as the first named variety, but this species is 
more used in a green state than the other, the young 
leaves being dressed like Sorrel. They are also used in 
soups and boiled as a vegetable with lamb or veal. The 
roots of this variety are fleshy, tapering, white, and clear, 
and the crowns or tops of the roots have a number of 
small scaly bulbs from which the plants are produced in 
abundance. This variety by many persons is preferred 
to the former as it is less acid, and when properly served 
makes a tender, succulent dish, easy to digest and a good 
dish for invalids. The roots when full grown are 3 to 
4 inches long and I to 2 inches in thickness, and the 
plant needs a rich root run, indeed any old spent manure 
or decayed vegetable mould will grow it well, but it needs 
much moisture and prefers a southern aspect. In a heavy 
clay soil it makes poor progress ; grown thus it runs along 
the surface and does not form its elongated or bulbous 
root. It comes freely from seed, but it is best grown 
from the ofF-sets or bulbs, these planted late in April. 
Twelve inches between the rows and half that distance in 
the row will be sufficient, as it will be seen. This variety 
is very different in growth from Crenata. The bulbs at 
planting should be made firm and only lightly covered 
with soil, and they do well if given a mulch of decayed 
manure in dry summer. The plants grow till cut down 
by frost, when they should be lifted, stored in sand, the 
crown growths removed and the bulbs stored till planting 
time. 



74 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

To Cook Oxalis Tubers 

The tubers should be exposed to the sun for a few 
days, and may then be boiled after the manner of Chinese 
Artichokes. If sun-dried for some weeks, the tubers 
may be eaten uncooked. The leaves of this plant may 
be cooked after the manner of Sorrel. 



HAMBURG PARSLEY 



The top growth of this plant is much like the ordinary 
garnishing Parsley, not much curled, but the edible part of 
the root is like a small or blunt Parsnip. The roots are 
very fleshy and of a peculiar flavour, and well worth 
culture in 
gardens where 
variety is liked, 
as this root is 
in season from 
November to 
April. As with 
most roots the 
land should not 
have been re- 
cently manured, 
as this causes 
a rank growth 
and splitting up 
of the roots 
into sections. 
What is required is land deeply dug which was well 
manured for a previous crop. For roots of any kind 
that go down into the earth deep cultivation is a necessity. 
The best roots I ever grew of this plant was in land that 
had just been cleared of Celery, the last-named plant 
having been highly fed, and the trenching and moulding 
up just suited the Parsley roots. Seeds should be sown 
in March in drills 1 8 inches apart and the plants thinned 
to half that distance. The after-culture is simple, merely 




EARLY HAMBURG PARSLEY 

{One-Ji/th natural size) 



^e THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

keeping the crop free of weeds. The roots will be 
ready for use in November, as then they will be full 
grown, but they make a nice vegetable if used in 
September before they are at their full size. The bulk 
of the roots are best lifted and stored in November 
in a cool store in the same way as Beetroots, and will 
remain good till the spring. Mere size should not be 
aimed at, but fleshy medium-sized roots, and these will 
have superior flavour to the large coarser ones. 

To Cook Hamburg Parsley 
The roots should be cooked as Celeriac. 



PATIENCE 



Patience {Rumex patientid) is by no means a popular 
plant in this country, but one that will grow when 
Spinach fails. It will grow in almost any soil, but pre- 
fers one that is moist. A hardy perennial and a native 
of Italy, in that country 
it is still a favourite on 
account of its free growth 
and the enormous quan- 
tities of leafage it gives. 
When allowed to run wild 
or to ripen seed, there is a 
great difficulty in getting 
rid of this plant ; indeed 
I would not advise its cul- 
ture unless it is used in a 
young state and the plants 
thrown away when they 
begin to form seed ; cut 
over frequently, the plants 
throw out a large number 
of young leaves. It is 
easily raised from seed sown in the spring, and there 
should be ample space — 2 feet between the rows and 12 
inches between the plants. There should be no delay 
in cutting down the seed stems, as when these form the 
plant will not furnish leaves freely, the stems being 
robust and growing to several feet in height. The edible 
portion is the young leaves, and these are used like 
Spinach. Older writers advise a fourth part of Sorrel to 




HERB PATIENCE, OR PATIENCE DOCK 
{One-ihirtieth natural size) 



78 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

be boiled with the Patience, and then there will be a pala- 
table dish. In France the leaves are used as a substitute 
for Sorrel, as this plant starts into growth much earlier, 
and when young is not at all an inferior vegetable. The 
leaves are also used in salads in the early part of the year 
when other green vegetables are scarce. The plant may 
be increased by division annually ; and grown thus it 
gives an earlier supply than from seed. 

To Cook Patience 
The leaves should be cooked as Sorrel. 



CONGO POTATO 

There are three varieties of Potatoes that are quite 
distinct from our ordinary garden forms, and the one 
most notable is the Black Congo, though this is not much 
grown in this country. This variety cannot be called 
profitable as an article of food when grown along with 




POTATO VITELOTTE 



the ordinary kinds, but it is useful in decorative cookery, 
and the flavour is not inferior. This variety has a black 
skin and dark flesh. It may be planted in the spring, 
but requires a well-drained, warm soil. To be served 
whole the tubers must not be pared but boiled with the 
skins intact, and when cooked the outer skin is to be 
removed with a piece of flannel. 



FIR APPLE POTATO 

This is distinct, and the growth when fully developed is 
like a cluster of Fir Apples — hence its name. It is in my 
opinion, much superior in flavour to the Congo, and when 
well cooked makes an attractive dish. The tubers should 
be cooked whole and not be broken in the cooking. The 
culture is much the same as advised for the Congo, but 
the Fir Apple Potato will grow in colder positions, 
though it well repays a well-drained soil. There are 
two varieties : the White, which is a smaller kind, and the 
large Red. They resemble each other in flavour, and it 
may not be necessary to grow both kinds, the last named 
being best in loamy soil. They are best planted in April or 
early in May, and will not require too much space. The 
tubers will be ready in autumn, and should then be lifted 
and given cool storage in sand or soil. 



80 



SWEET POTATO 



This is a great favourite in America, and a recent 
writer in The Garden, vol. Ixiii. p. 191, gives the 
following extract in reply to a previous note of mine 
on the value of this root in South Africa : " The New 
York market 

growers prefer ^X^^^ ^/^'^ks^^^ 

a dry and mealy 
Potato such as 
the growers 
about Vine- 
land, New 
Jersey, pro- 
duce in the 
highest pos- 
sible quality, 
but our South- 
ern friends pre- 
fer one that 
is moist and 
sugary, with a 
tendency to exude syrup while cooking. As for the 
methods of sowing they are legion. Baked as suggested 
by Mr Wythes they are excellent ; better still when 
cooked in the drippings under roasting meat, like York- 
shire pudding. Roast possum, with Sweet Potatoes 
cooked in the gravy, forms the acme of culinary delight 
to the Southern negro. Plainly boiled the Sweet Potato 
is satisfying and nutritious. The skin should be left on 
until cooked, then removed before sending to the 




''ROSE DE MALAYA" SWEET POTATO 
{One-eighth natural size) 



82 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

table. Boiled and cut into slices, then fried brown, 
the Sweet Potato forms a nice breakfast dish, and is also 
admirable as an accompaniment for roast poultry, especially 
duck. A rich baked pudding is made from Sweet 
Potatoes ; and the same vegetable in the Southern States 
takes the place of pumpkin in making pies. They are 
also made into biscuits (I mean buns according to the 
speech of the home country), and are slowly baked with 
butter and sugar until glazed with a rich caramel sauce. 
I am sure that English people who once acquire a 
taste for Sweet Potatoes would welcome this addition 
to their tables ; though, unlike green Corn, which every 
foreigner loves upon first introduction, a taste for 
them must be cultivated." Any of the ways in which 
ordinary Potatoes can be cooked are apphcable to Sweet 
Potatoes. See " The Book of Vegetables." 



QUINOA 

QuiNOA (Chenopodium quinod) is an annual plant, a native 
of Peru. It is a large growing plant, having stems 
4 to 6 feet high and large pointed leaves of a woolly 
nature. It is rarely grown in this country, but in 
America its seeds are much employed in cookery. In 
the mountainous parts of the Cordilleras the Quinoa was 
at the time of the Conquest by the Spaniards much 
used, being the chief farinaceous seed used for food, 
and travellers inform us that now it forms with the 
Potato the common food by those who cannot afford 
more expensive foods. The seeds are the edible 
portion used, and these are largely used in soups and 
made into bread, and the latter is considered to be 
digestible ; also when fermented a kind of beer is made, 
the seed being mixed with millet ; and they are largely 
used for feeding poultry. It will be seen that the plant 
is valuable in the countries named ; moreover, in addi- 
tion to the seeds, the young tender leaves are gathered 
and cooked like Spinach. In this country the seeds 
are not much sought after, as they have a peculiar 
acrid taste, and so far I have never heard of anyone 
getting rid of this bitter flavour no matter how the seeds 
were cooked. It may be that owing to the plants requiring 
a longer season to perfect their growth in this country 
this bitter taste is the result, but as the same thing 
occurs in France, it appears that the Quinoa is not at 
its best grown in certain soils. There are several 
varieties of this plant, and it is the white one that is 
used for food, the others have red and black seeds, 

83 



84 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

also different coloured leaves. Most of them seed freely 
and are vigorous growers. The plant making a rapid 
growth, 4 to 6 feet, and being an annual, it will be seen 
that much space is required to grow it properly ; and 
it is well to give a good holding soil, and a warm, well- 
drained one in addition, as though the plant will grow in 
almost any position, it will not ripenits seed in thiscountry, 
unless grown as advised. The best results I have seen 
ha-ue been from plants sown under glass in March and 
planted out in May or June ; that is, given similar culture 
to our vegetable Marrow. Another plan is to sow in 
small pots and place in a cold frame, and to plant out 
when a few inches high. Seed may be sown in the 
open in May in drills 2 to 3 feet apart and the plants 
when large enough thinned to half that distance in the 
row. The plant raised under glass gives a much better 
return. The points of the shoots should be taken out 
when in full growth to induce side shoots to form. The 
leaves may be used as Spinach, and there should be ample 
supplies of moisture given in dry, hot weather. The 
plant makes its growth from June to September, and at 
the last-named month it perfects its seeds. These are 
then harvested, dried, and stored in a cool place. When 
the plant is only grown for its leaves, less space may be 
given. 

To Cook Quinoa 

The leaves are cooked as Spinach. The seeds, having 
been boiled, may be used in soups and cakes as flavourers. 



RAMPION 



Rampion (Campanula rapunculus) is a biennial plant, a 
native of Britain. It is not largely used. The roots, 
which are fleshy and white, are used in a boiled state 
and in salads ; the 
leaves also are used 
in winter salads. The 
plant prefers a light 
soil, ample moisture, 
and a shady situation, 
and in dry, thin, poor 
soils the plants have 
a tendency to run to 
seed, so that it is well 
to give good culture 
and not sow too early 
for winter supplies. 
May is quite early 
enough, indeed I have 
got excellent roots 
from July sowings. 
The plants should be 
sown in drills 12 inches 
apart, and the seed- 
lings thinned to half 
that distance or even less ; and owing to the 
seeds being very small, many growers sow broad- 
cast, and thin the plants to 3 or 4 inches apart, 
merely raking the seeds in when sown, and making 
the surface quite level. Why I advise drills for 

85 




{One-third natural size) 



86 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

most vegetable seeds is that during the growth of 
the plant the soil or surface is more easily kept free 
of weeds, as by using a small Dutch hoe the work 
is done quickly. In the case of very small seeds 
that are difficult to handle, it is an easy matter to mix 
sand with the seed and thus ensure even distribution 
in the drills and prevent crowding of the seedlings. 
The roots are fit for use in the autumn, and the plant 
may be wintered in its growing quarters, the only 
drawback being that in severe weather it may be difficult 
to get at the plants, therefore cool storage will be 
advisable with plenty of soil or sand placed between 
the roots. If the plant is much liked, two sowings may 
be made, in April and June. 

To Cook Rampion 

Treat the roots after the manner of Skirret, boiling 
till tender. Serve with melted butter or sauce 
HoUandaise. 



RHUBARB 

Rhubarb {Rheum hybridum) is among the most use- 
ful of plants, and certainly one that cannot be called 
rare. My excuse for including it in this book is that 
it did not find a place amongst the ordinary vegetables 
and it is too valuable to omit. 

There has been more interest taken in the cultivation 
of this plant of late years, some valuable introductions 
have been distributed, and there is a great breadth 
of land occupied by these roots near London and the 
larger towns in the kingdom ; indeed from Christmas 
to June, by forced produce and the open ground supply, 
a large trade is done, and the leaf stalks that are the 
edible portion both in a blanched and natural state 
make an excellent substitute for fruit in tarts, and a 
delicious preserve, and by no means an inferior wine. 
The plant will be found in all gardens, large and small, 
but it is not always given the best cultivation. It is a 
native of Central Asia, and has been cultivated in this 
country for over three hundred years. It does best in 
good soil and well repays for food given, but clayey or 
wet soils are not suitable. It is propagated readily 
by division, and doubtless that is a good way to get a 
true stock of any good kind, but I have been very 
successful with seed, and I find it comes remarkably 
true from seed, and excellent produce may be secured 
in less than two years from the date of sowing, that is 
the plants the second year produce freely. The plant 
requires a deeply dug, well manured soil, and when 
raised by seed, April is the best time to sow, and by 

87 



88 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



division just before growth is active in the early spring ; 
each portion of root detached from the plant should have 
a crown or bud and the roots should be placed below the 
surface, so that the crown is quite covered. One good 

sized plant will make a 
number of roots when 
carefully divided, and 
these should be made firm 
at the planting by tread- 
ing during the work, 
when the soil is in suit- 
able condition. No stalks 
should be taken the first 
year, and in dry weather 
supplies of food in the 
shape of liquid manure 
would be well repaid. 
In all gardens of any size 
it is advantageous to 
make new quarters every 
two or three years, and 
many growers force the 
older roots, but I find 
much better results will 
follow if two or three 
year old roots are forced ; the leaf-stalks, though 
less numerous, are much stronger, and that is a great 
gain. In planting, ample space should be given the 
plant, at least 3 feet between, and 4 feet between 
the rows, and in the late spring and early summer 
the seed stems must be cut as soon as they appear ; 
but some of the newer kinds, such as the Sutton 
Rhubarb, bear very little seed and this is an advantage. 
Few plants force more readily, and this usually com- 
mences in November and is continued up to the time 
the open ground crop is ready. The old plan of covering 




RHUBARB STALKS 
{Ore-seventh natural size) 



RHUBARB 89 

over with pots and warm litter is good, as it gives 
better flavoured stalks than from lifted roots forced in 
strong heat. 

I have referred to seedlings and their value, and we 
raise plants every year for forcing in this way. The 
seed is sown in April each year, and the very early 
kinds are selected, but the well-known Champagne 
comes true from seed. The seed is sown in land 
well manured and the surface made fine, in drills 2 
feet apart. Sow very thinly, and when large enough 
thin to 12 inches apart. The next season every 
other root may be removed and planted in good land, 
given more space, or the whole may be taken up and 
transplanted, and will then make good forcing plants 
the next autumn. If not intended to force, the first plan 
is good, but in all cases there must be room allowed 
for the plant to develop. 

For forcing purposes we usually use the Early Scarlet, 
or Royal Albert. Myatt's Linnseus is an excellent 
variety, as also is the Paragon ; the latter is large and 
very prolific, and for general purposes the well-known 
Victoria is an excellent variety. I have referred to the 
Sutton ; this may be classed as a superior form of 
Victoria, earlier than that variety, with a bright red 
stalk, the colour of which is well retained after the 
cooking ; the stalks are large and of splendid quality. 

Recently there has been a small form of Rhubarb 
introduced from the Colonies, and this differs from 
ours in that it starts so early into growth in the autumn 
that it requires no forcing whatever, but to prevent 
damage by frost it needs cover of some kind. It is sent 
out by several firms ; it is also grown in the United 
States, so that it will soon become well known. 
Another new Rhubarb is Daw's Champion, a very 
early and good form, a grand forcer. It will be seen 
that there is a wide selection of really good kinds. 



ROCAMBOLE 

Rocambole {Allium scorodoprasmn) is a plant closely 
allied to the Onion and Garlic, and is much used in 
cookery where the last named plant is disliked, the 
Rocambole being much milder, and when used in a green 
state, more delicate in flavour. The plant is a hardy 
perennial, a native of Denmark and not so much grown 
in this country as on the continent. The bulbs when 
matured are not so large as well grown Garlic, and these 
are produced in a cluster at the root. The stem growth 
is about two feet. The stems also produce a number of 
small bulbs, and from these the plant is reproduced 
freely, but those at the root give much the best 
plants, if divided and planted in February or March. 
Much the same culture should be given as to Shallots 
or Garlic. They do best in good soil, planted in rows 2 
feet apart, 6 inches between the bulbs, and placed at 
least 2 inches under the soil, each bulb being pressed 
well into the soil at planting, as they have a tendency to 
lift out of the ground when forming root at the base. 
The after culture is very simple, merely keeping the 
ground free of weeds, and as the leaves begin to decay 
the bulbs should be taken up and dried in the sun, then 
bunched together and stored in a cool shed. They keep 
well if suspended from a roof which is damp proof. In 
suitable soil and position, I have seen these plants 
wintered in the open. Grown thus they make a very 
early growth in the spring, and when required to use in 
a green state this mode of culture answers well. 



SCOLYMUS 

I HAVE seen this plant grown in this country under the 
name of GoldenThistle — doubtless that appellation applied 
to its golden coloured flower heads. These are large, and 




GOLDEN THISTLE 
{One-iwel/th natural size ; root, one-fhird natural size) 

the growths attain a height of 3 feet. The genus is a small 
one. There are three species, and the variety, Hispani- 
cus, or the Spanish, is the form grown as a vegetable; it is 
often known as the vegetable Oyster plant, as the flavour 



92 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

of the roots is supposed, somewhat to resemble oysters. 
On the continent, especially in Spain, the roots are 
cultivated in the same way as the Scorzonera, and are 
considered to be quite as good. The leaves and stalks of 
the plants are also eaten as Cardoons by the people of 
Salamanca, but they should be well grown to be equal to 
the Cardoon. The flowers also are used for various 
purposes, one being for the adulteration of Saffron. This 
variety is biennial and easily cultivated, and may be in- 
creased by division or grown from seeds. If the latter, they 
are best sown in the early spring and when large enough 
transplanted into deeply dug land, as though the plant 
will thrive in almost any soil when grown for use as a 
vegetable, it repays good culture and should be planted 
in ground that was well manured for a previous crop, as 
if recently manured the roots fork or split up badly. 
Seed is best sown in March or April in rows 2 feet apart 
and the plants thinned to l8 inches apart in the row. 
The roots will be ready by the autumn, and may be lifted 
and stored or left in the soil and used as required. 

To Cook Scolymus 

The roots may be cooked in any of the ways in which 
Salsify is cooked. See the recipes given in "The Book 
of Asparagus." 



SCURVY GRASS 



Scurvy Grass (Cochkaria officinalis) is a hardy annual, 
a native of this country, being found growing on the 
sea shores often among sand and stones, or on shallow 
rocks with por- 
tions of sand 
and earth to 
root into. 
Many years 
ago this plant 
was' a much 
greater favour- 
ite in kitchen 
gardens than 
at the present 
day, and as 
regards its 
value as a 
vegetable it is 
of course in- 
ferior to many 
others. But 
it should not 
altogether be 
lost sight of, 
as for many years it was considered a valuable 
addition to salads, and in a fresh state it possesses 
valuable medicinal properties as it is stimulant, diuretic, 
and a powerful antiscorbutic, and for these qualities it is 
a valuable salad plant and readily grown. It is not a large 




SCURVY GRASS 
{One-tenth, natural size) 



94 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

grower, the plants being dwarf. The leaves are heart 
shaped, shining, roundish, and the plants produce small 
white flowers freely in May and June. It is best sown 
in a moist or shady position. For years I grew this 
plant for salad purposes under the partial shade of a 
large Medlar tree, and there was an ample supply of 
leafage, if the plants were given an occasional watering 
with salt mixed in the water. Sown broadcast in April, 
and the young plants thinned when large enough to 
handle and then kept free from weeds, there will be 
ample cutting. Used as a vegetable it is best sown 
thickly and cut over like Spinach ; but I fear it will not 
find much favour owing to its peculiar flavour, though as 
an addition to salads it is worth room in most gardens. 



SKIRRET 



4^y % 



Skirret (Sium sisarum) is a plant cultivated for its 
roots, rarely seen in British gardens. It is a perennial 
plant, a native of China and Japan, and in those countries 
it is esteemed 
and much used 
for food. The 
edible portion, 
the root, has a 
very peculiar 
taste and it takes 
sometime to get 
used to it, but 
this occurs with 
other vege- 
tables. The 
roots are pre- 
pared in the 
same way as 
Scorzonera and 
Salsify, but I 
do not think 
them equal as 
regards quality 
to those last 
named. The plant is raised mostly from seed, but it 
may also be propagated much in the same way as Seakale, 
that is by root cuttings, but these must have a bud or 
eye, and at the planting the cutting must be placed under 
the soil. 

95 




ifine-twenty-Ji/th natural size ; detached roots, 
one-eighth natural size) 



96 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

Seed sown at the end of March or early in April is the 
best mode of culture, but the seed will not germinate 
freely unless the soil is moist, so that it is necessary to 
give water in dry weather. For that reason I would 
advise sowing in rather deep drills l8 inches apart, 
and thinning the seedlings to 9 inches in the drill. 
The plant likes light, rich, deep soil, and needs ample 
moisture during growth, such as liquid manure or 
fertilisers. In October the roots will be large enough 
for use, or even earlier in good land. Later on the roots 
should be taken up and stored in the same way as 
Salsify. The seeds are obtained from the plants the 
second year they are in flower in July or later. The 
plants left in the soil will show flowers earlier, but these 
are of no value. The roots are much divided, or spread 
out, and need care in lifting. 

To Boil Skirret 

To boil Skirret, a dozen roots should be first well 
washed and scraped and at once put into a basin of cold 
water with an egg-cupful of vinegar in it. In five 
minutes place the roots in an enamelled stewpan con- 
taining a boiling mixture of half a pint of water, quarter 
of a pint of milk, two slices of lemon, a little salt, and 
half an ounce of butter. Boil until quite tender, which 
will usually be in about an hour's time or a little more. 
Take out the Skirret and well drain it. It may be 
served whole, melted butter, beurre fondu, or sauce 
Hollandaise accompanying it in a sauceboat. Or the 
boiled roots may be cut into inch lengths, and a layer 
of them placed at the bottom of a fireproof pan, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and covered with a little bechamel 
sauce, this arrangement of layers being repeated till the 
pan is full. Over all sprinkle grated Cheshire, Cheddar, 
or Parmesan, and having covered it with very small 
pieces of butter, heat for a few minutes in the oven. 



SORREL 

There are several kinds of Sorrel, and they are 
mostly perennials, the one that is probably best known 
being the Common Garden Sorrel that is so plentiful in 
fields. There are others somewhat similar. The Belleville 
is a cultivated French variety, and an excellent garden 
Sorrel. This is superior to our common form, and there is 
another of French origin having blistered leaves. This 
latter is grown largely on the continent, as it is the last 
to run to seed ; the common British form is bad in this 
respect. Tbe Roman or Round-leaved Sorrel (Rumex 
scutatus) is a hardy perennial much grown abroad ; this 
has a trailing stem, and is from 12 to 18 inches in height, 
having heart-shaped leaves, glaucous and smooth, which 
are more acid than those of the other species, and this 
by many persons is much liked, as for flavouring or in a 
cooked state as a green vegetable it makes a more 
palatable dish. There is also the Mountain Sorrel of 
the French (i?. montanus) and the Oseille VLerge, a 
smaller form, and these do not run so quickly to seed as 
our varieties. The leaves of the last named have a pale 
green colour and are less acid, but the Oseille Vierge 
verte liste is the reverse in this respect, and the Green 
Mountain variety has larger leafage of a dark green 
colour, which are produced earlier in the spring and is 
the last to run to seed, so that it is a desirable garden 
variety. The Messrs Vilmorin of Paris give the 
larger Belleville as the best variety, and there is no 
doubt but that it is a good garden variety, though there 
are others on the continent under diverse names that are 
well worth attention. At one time I gave this vegetable 

G 97 



98 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

a trial, and had over a dozen named kinds, British and 
foreign ; some were very much alike, but the best was 
certainly the Belleville and the Green Mountain. The 
chief difficulty with some of the small forms is their 
tendency to run to seed, and when this takes place the 
plant does not furnish good leaves, so that it will be 
seen the more it is cut and used the better for the plant, 
and in all cases the seed stems should be removed as 




COMMON BROAD-LEAVED FRENCH SORREL 

(One-sixth naturalsize) 

soon as they appear. At one time Sorrel was grown in 
the large market gardens near London much more than 
at the present day. This is not surprising, as with 
more gardens the tendency is to grow what may be 
termed popular vegetables, and Sorrel requires more care 
in gathering and packing than many other vegetables. 
It was much used in the spring many years ago, but I 
have frequently been over large gardens where the 
plant was not grown. In addition to its use as a 
vegetable, it makes an excellent addition to the salad 
bowl. It may be lifted and gently forced under 
glass, and supplies had much earlier in the season if 
grown thus. 



SORREL 99 

The culture is most simple, but the plant does not 
always come true, at least it tends to revert back to its 
original type when sown from seed. I prefer to divide 
the plant, and if this is done annually there will be a 
full crop of succulent leaves, and the plants grown thus 
will not run to seed so quickly. In many gardens the 
few plnnts of Sorrel are often relegated to an out-of- 
the-way corner of the kitchen garden, but these plants 
do not give the best material, and if left for years in one 
place the foliage becomes small and the plant seeds 
quickly. In France these plants deservedly get good 
culture, and well repay for labour by the wealth of 
leafage given for two or three months or more. Our 
cooks at home are not fond of Sorrel like the French 
chef, but it is a very good vegetable, and one that agrees 
with delicate persons. I have referred to seed sowing. 
This is best done early in the spring, though to gain time 
I have sown any special variety as soon as the old plants 
had ripened the seed in August; but sown then it needs an 
open well-drained soil and the seedlings thinned as soon 
as large enough to handle. Sown in March the seed is 
best in rows, 2 feet between the rows, and half that 
distance between the plants, when finally thinned the 
plants lift readily, so that seedlings transplant freely, but 
there should be no lack of moisture afterwards. Good 
land will furnish the best leaves, as though the plant will 
grow almost anywhere, it well repays when given a 
deeply dug and well-enriched soil, and prefers a moist 
situation. 1 have referred to autumn sowing. These 
plants will give leaves in the following April. Spring 
sown will need about two months "before being large 
enough for use. In cutting the largest leaves should 
be used first, thus allowing the smaller ones to grow ; 
if all are cut at the start it is wasteful. I now come 
to propagation by division, and this gives leaves in a 
shorter time ; it also has the advantage of retaining 



loo THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

any good variety. The plants are best if divided just 
before new growth commences in the early spring 
months. Our mode of culture is to plant a small quarter 
annually and destroy the oldest, and not to use the same 
space again. For a time a certain space is allotted for the 
plants, and this lasts about three years. The planting 
begins at one end, and each year a third of the room is 
occupied, and at the end of the three years another site is 
selected. There is no loss of land, as it will be seen that 
every season a portion or bed is destroyed. The plants 
divide well, and grown about 2 feet apart in rows soon 
attain a large size, especially the large kinds. Our plants 
occupy an east aspect, as our soil is light — in cold places ; 
a warmer site may be better, but as the supply is not 
required after July, the position named is suitable. On the 
other hand, where Sorrel is needed as late as possible, I 
would advise having plants in two positions, north and 
south, as the first named would give a much later supply 
than the last, but the one on the south would be early 
and equally useful. For ordinary supplies a quarter 
planted every three years will give fair material for 
salad purposes, or an occasional dish ; and in some gardens 
I have seen this plant used for dividing the herb beds or 
as an edging, the smaller forms being used, as they are 
compact growers and not readily injured by slugs or 
bad weather. 

To Cook Sorrel 

Sorrel is best cooked with butter as recommended by 
The Queen, preparing it thus : Pick it over well, nip off 
the stalks, and, if thick, tear the midrib from the leaves, 
tearing these also into shreds if large ; then well wash 
it in several waters, finally leaving it in a colander under 
a running tap for a little ; then drain, shake off most of 
the moisture, and put it in a pan with a dust of sugar 
and one ounce of butter for each quart of picked Sorrel, 



SORREL loi 

the moisture adhering to the latter being sufficient to cook 
it, with the butter. Let it cook till well reduced (it 
reduces a great deal), and when quite tender, dust in a 
little fine flour ; stir this over the fire till well mixed, 
when it must be all rubbed through a sieve, reheated, 
and blended with a little more butter or some cream, or 
some good veal gravy, and, if liked, a little more sugar, 
and use. Sorrel may also be cooked by any recipe 
given for Spinach. Sorrel is one of the things that 
require specially to be used fresh, hence probably its 
unpopularity here, where there is not sufficient demand 
to ensure a constant fresh supply. To soften the acid 
flavour objected to by some, use half and half Sorrel and 
Spinach, or one part Spinach to three of Sorrel. If the 
Sorrel is old, and consequently rather more acid, mix it 
in the same way with Lettuce instead of Spinach, and 
allow a little more castor sugar. 



SOY BEANS 

Soy Beans are cultivated exactly as Kidney Beans, the 
plants being bushy, and growing from one to two feet 




ETAMPES YELLOW SOY BEAN 
{One-eighth natural size; detached pods, one-third natural size) 

or more in height. They are of vigorous habit, and of 
great productiveness. The beans are cooked and eaten, 
either green or dried, exactly as Kidney Beans. 



SWEET CICELY 

Sweet Cicely (Scandix odorata) is a plant rarely seen in 
gardens at the present day, but well wo;th culture. It 
is valuable in all preparations in which the flavour of 
Aniseed is required. By many persons the smell is 
objected to ; as both the leaves and other portions of the 
plant smell so strongly of the above herb, it is disliked. 
It is much more cultivated in France and other portions 
of the continent than in this country, and, of course, 
from the market point of view it cannot be termed a 
profitable vegetable. The leaves are mostly used 
mixed with salads, and the roots also are edible, these 
being used in soups and with cooked meats. The 
plant is perennial, hardy, and a native of this country, 
and readily raised from seed, which is best sown in 
September for the next season's supply. It will grow 
in almost any soil, and if sown broadcast, should be 
sown thinly. If sown in the spring, it should get a 
good position and a better root run, as the growth must 
be made in a shorter time. The plant, when grown for 
its roots, should have more room, and is best grown in 
rows 12 to 13 inches apart and the seedliijgs well 
thinned at the start. For this purpose the seeds should 
be sown early in the autumn in an open position. 



To Cook Sweet Cicely 
The roots are prepared exactly as Chervil. 



TUBEROUS GLYCINE 

The Tuberous Glycine {Apios tuberosa) is known under 
the name of Glycine, owing to the roots being sweet — 
the leaves also in some cases. The tubers, which are the 
edible portion used as a vegetable, are pear shaped. The 
above plant is a hardy perennial and has a very pretty 
habit. It is of a trailing nature, and grown in pots it 
forms a handsome plant trained to stakes. As far as its 
value in vegetable form is concerned, of course it must be 
considered somewhat rare in this country ; but this is not 
the case in other countries. It is a favourite in France, 
being cooked after the manner of Potatoes. The tubers 
are sweet. They are farinaceous, and much liked by 
those who have lived abroad. The plant is readily 
propagated by the tubers. These divided in the early 
spring and planted in light sandy or well-drained soil, and 
a sunny exposed position in the early spring, will make 
good tubers by the autumn. The light, graceful habit 
of the plant, with its brownish-purple sweet-scented 
flowdrs, makes it a pretty garden plant, the flowers being 
pea shaped, and produced in racemes in profusion. 



YAM 

The Yam, so familiar to all classes in the West Indies, 
China, and other warm countries, is practically unknown 
in this country, as though seen at times in Covent 
Garden and eagerly purchased by those who have 
visited the tropics, few persons have much knowledge as 
to the nature of the plant or of the wholesome and 
palatable character of the food it provides. These roots 
are mostly grown in the tropics, and they are much 
esteemed, but an old West Indian told me that he had 
never in all his travels found Yams equal to those of his 
own country. There they were in great abundance, and 
in the greatest variety, and during the time they were in 
season, they formed a standard dish at the planter's table, 
and were one of the staple foods of the workmen — indeed, 
of all classes in the West Indies, being called the Barbados 
Yam. It is also stated that visitors to that country soon 
become accustomed to the flavour of the Yam, and in time 
fond of them. There are many ways of cooking this 
vegetable, that are almost unknown in this country, the 
common one being to roast or boil, but there are nearly a 
dozen others. The Yam is a perennial plant and a native 
of China, but found in many other warm parts of the Globe ; 
and at one time it was thought to be valuable as a sub- 
stitute for the Potato. The roots vary in shape in some 
parts, and the two varieties that are mostly known, Dios- 
corea Batatas and Dioscorea Decarsneara, are distinct in 
shape, and the first named is alongroot. These are difficult 
to grow on account of their going down so great a 
depth into the soil, and the thin trailing Stems attain 



io6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



a height of from 
6 to 9 feet. 
The growth is 
not unlike the 
Black Bryony 
found so plenti- 
fully in hedge- 
rows in some 
parts of the 
country, as the 
twining stems 
and shining 
heart - shaped 
leaves much re- 
semble Byrony. 
The second 
named variety is 
more like our 
own Potatoes, 
smooth and 
regular in some 
instances, in 
others very 
irregular, and 
the roots do not 
require such a 
deep soil as they 
grow much 
nearer the sur- 
face. This 
variety has been 
cultivated in 
many countries 
and was intro- 
duced into France in 1854, and this, or a plant but differ- 
ing little in shape and growth, is largely grown in South 




CHINESE YAM 

{One-sixih natural size) 



YAMS 107 

Arrica ; indeed those who have been many years in that 
Colony inform me they prefer the Sweet Potato to our 
common form. The growths of the Yam and Sweet 
Potatoes are so distinct in different countries that it 
would serve no useful purpose to describe them at 
length. As a cultivated root I do not think the plant will 
ever become a success in this country. The roots, or as 
they should be more properly termed the rhizomes, are full 
of starch and juice, and these differ from the Potato as they 
go downwards in the soil perpendicularly often to the 
depth of a yard if the soil is loose, and these plants in 
suitable soil, when left to themselves, spread over the 
ground and readily take root. The leaves of the plant 
have been described as not unlike Byrony ; the flowers 
are very small, and a pale yellow, produced in small 
racemes at the axils of the leaves, and the roots may 
be said to be club shaped of different colours — mostly 
dark or fawn colour. The flesh is white and milky. 

In China these roots have peculiar names, and the people 
use them largely as food ; indeed as largely as the Potato 
is used in this country. For seed purposes the smallest 
tubers are preserved through the winter in pits well 
lined with protecting material and covered over. In spring 
they are taken out and sprouted by being placed close to- 
gether in well-prepared soil. They then produce their 
trailing stems, and these, when strong enough, are made 
into cuttings, and planted in ridges they soon root in 
moist weather and form tubers ; fresh stems also appear, 
but these are removed as they rob the tuber. There are 
several varieties of Chinese Yams, but they are of no 
value in this country. The variety noted above is very 
common in China, and this thrives so well that a 
trench 10 to 15 feet long will often produce enough 
roots to keep one man a whole year ; that is, there is 
sufficient produce or roots for consumption for that 
period. The plants are also increased by cutting in 



io8 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

pieces ; also from seed. The latter is gathered when ripe, 
and is covered with soil to preserve it. In spring the 
seeds are taken out of the ground and sown. Great care 
must be taken that the roots or seeds are not injured by 
frost. It is found that a much larger crop of roots 
is obtained when the plants are given stakes or supports 
during growth. They twine round the sticks very 
regularly, much like our Scarlet Runners, and the tubers 
average from 14 to 20 inches long, the upper part being 
smallest, and this is often used for planting when cut, 
and the thick and fleshy part for food. 

American Yams a la Francaise 

A very good way of cooking Yams is that advised by 
Mrs de Salis. Cut the Yams into slices about half an 
inch thick, trim into oval shapes, put them into a pan 
full of water ; wash and drain them upon a cloth ; next 
place them in a stewpan with two and a half ounces of 
butter, and season with salt and a grate of nutmeg. 
Moisten with a pint of water ; put the lid on and let 
them simmer for three-quarters of an hour, turning them 
over occasionally, so that they may be equally a bright 
yellow colour on both sides. Arrange in a circle, and 
pour the following sauce over them : — 

Mix an ounce of butter with a dessert-spoonful of 
flour ; put it into a stewpan with a gill of cream, a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar, a little salt, and a teaspoonful 
of lemon-juice. Stir this over the fire till it thickens, 
when it will be ready. 

To Boil Yams 
Having peeled and well washed them, place in cold 
water and boil exactly as Potatoes. 

To Bake Yams 
Wash and lightly scrape the Yams. Then bake in a 
hot oven till soft. Serve as baked Potatoes with butter, 
pepper, and salt. 



INDEX OF PLANTS 



Artichoke, Chinese, iz 

. . Globe, 5 

Aubergine, 37 

Capsicum, 15 

Cardoon, iS 

Celeriac, 24 

Ciiervil, 27 

Chick Pea, 29 

Chicory, 30 

Chou de Burghley, 32 

Coco, 33 

Congo Potato, 79 

Cookery of Vegetables, 3 

Corn, Indian, 56 

Couve Tronchuda, 34 

Dandelion, 35 
Deppi, 71 

Egg Plant, 37 
Evening Primrose, 43 

Fennel, 45 

Fir Apple Potato, 80 

Glycine, 104 
Golden Thistle, 91 
Good King Henry, 47 

Hamuuiig Parsley, 75 
Herb Patience, 77 
Hop, 49 
Horse Radish, 50 

Indian Corn, 56 

Lentil, 53 

Maize, 56 



Mercury, 47 
Mountain Spinach, 59 

Nasturtium, 61 

Nettle, 64 

New Zealand Spinach, 65 

Oka, 71 

Onions, 67 

Onion, Egyptian, 68 

Potato, 67 

Tree, 68 

Welsh, 68 

Oxalis Crenata, 71 

Parsley, Hamburg, 75 
Patience, 77 
Potato, Congo, 79 

Fir Apple, 80 

Sweet, 81 

QuiNOA, 83 

Ramhon, 85 
Rhubarb, 87 
Rocambole, 90 

SCOLYMUS, 91 

Scurvy Grass, 93 
Seakale Cabbage, 34 
Skirret, 95 
Sorrel, 36, 97 
Soy Beans, 102 
Spinach, Mountain, 59 

New Zealand, 65 

Sweet Cicely, 103 
Potato, 81 

Yam, 105 



Z09 



Handbooks of Practical Gardening 

Edited by HARRY ROBERTS 
Price 2J. 6i/. net each. Crown %vo. Illustrated. Price $l.oo 

THE BOOK OF ASPARAGUS. With sections on Celery, 

Salsify, Scorzonera, and Seakale ; and a chapter on their cooking and 

preparation for the table. By Charles Ilott, F.R.H.S., Lecturer 

on Horticulture to the Cornwall County Council. 

"The work of a specialist. Mr Ilott gives us— for a matter of half-a- 

crown — the ripe experience of a life-time. The Speaker. 

THE BOOK OF THE GREENHOUSE. By J. C. 

Tallack, F.R.H.S., Head Gardener at Shipley Hall. 
"A serviceable handbook for the practical gardener, written with ex- 
ceptional knowledge of horticultural work." The Outlook. 
THE BOOK OF THE GRAPE. With a chapter on the 
History and Decorative Value of the Vines. By H. W. Ward, 
F.R.H.S., late Head Gardener at Longford Castle. 
"A mine of useful information." The St Jameses Gazette. 

THE BOOK OF OLD-FASHIONED FLOWERS. By 
Harry Roberts, Author of ' ' The Chronicle of a Cornish Garden.' ' 
"AH who wish for a real old-fashioned garden should certainly study 
this most excellent and practical book." The Bookman. 

THE BOOK OF BULBS. By S. Arnott, F.R.H.S., 
of Carsethorne, near Dumfries. Together with an introductory 
chapter on the Botany of Bulbs by the Editor. 
"Skilled and instructive. It notably enriches the series in- which it 

appears." The Scotsman. 

THE BOOK OF THE APPLE. By H. H. Thomas, 

Assistant Editor of The Garden^ late of the Royal Gardens, Windsor. 
Together with chapters by the Editor on the History and Cooking of 
the Apple and the Preparation of Cider. 
" This is a most useful volume, which every grower, whether for his own 
use or for the market, should consult." The Spectator. 

THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES. By George Wythes, 

V.M.H., Head Gardener to the Duke of Northumberland. Together 
with chapters on the History and Cookery by the Editor. 
"Thoroughly practical. The book can be highly recommended." 
The Morning- Post. 

THE BOOK OF ORCHIDS. By W. H. White, F.R.H.S., 

Orchid Grower to Sir Trevor Lawrence, President of the Royal Horti- 
cultural Society. 
"There are few writers so well qualified to write with authority upon 
these flowers." The Scotsman. 

THE BOOK OF THE STRAWBERRY. With chapters 
on the Raspberrj', Blackberry, Loganberry, Japanese Wineberry, and 
Allied Fruits. By Edwin Beckett, F.R.H.S. 
" Mr Beckett deals with his subject in a thorough practical manner . . . 

and fully maintains the general excellence shown in the previous volumes 

of this series." The Morjting Post. 

THE BOOK OF CLIMBING PLANTS. By S. Arnott, 

F.R.H.S., Author of "The Book of Bulbs.". 
"This is a concise, practical, and well-informed exposition of skilled 
knowledge as to the training of creepers, &c." The Scotsmaft' 



THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS. By the Rev. 
E. Bartrum, D.D. 
" The writer knew as much about the growing of Pears and Plums as 
Dean Hole knows about the cultivation of Roses," The Scotsjuan. 

THE BOOK OF HERBS. By Lady Rosalind Northcote. 
THE BOOK OF THE WILD GARDEN. By S. W. 

FiTZHERBERT. 

THE BOOK OF THE HONEY-BEE. By Charles 
Harrison. 
This book will be of great assistance to the beginner as showing the 
practical side of bee-keeping. It contains numerous illustrations which 
will be of interest to experienced bee-keepers as well as to the novice. 

THE BOOK OF SHRUBS. By George Gordon, V.M.H., 

Editor of The Gardener's Magazine. 

A special feature of this book lies in the distinction which it makes 
between shrubs and trees peculiarly suited to garden cultivation, and 
those appropriate to the park and woodland. The author desires to 
encourage the culture of shrubs in gardens, and indicates those most suit- 
able for various purposes and situations. 

THE BOOK OF THE DAFFODIL. By the Rev. S. 
Eugene Bourne. 

The author supplies valuable information on the cultivation of daffodils 
gained by the results of his own personal experience. 

THE BOpK OF THE LILY. By W. Goldring. 

A description of, and a practical guide to, the cultivation of all the lilies 
usually to be found in British gardens. 

THE BOOK OF TOPIARY. By Charles H. Curtis 

and W. Gibson, Head Gardener at Levens Hall. 
A textbook of the topiary art, together with some account and famous 
examples of the application of that art. 

THE BOOK OF TOWN AND WINDOW GARDENING. 
By Mrs F. A. Bardswell. 
A handbook for those lovers of flowers who are compelled to live in a 
town. The book should be helpful even to those who are quite ignorant 
in the art of growing plants, and advice is given as to the plants most 
suitable to the various adverse conditions which town garden"? afford. 

THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES. By George 

WvTHES. V.M.H., Head Gardener to the Duke of Northumberland, 

and Harry Roberts. 
THE BOOK OF THE IRIS. 

A practical guide to the cultivation of the Iris, and also a description of 
and key to all the garden species and varieties. The book will interest 
equally the botanical student, the practical gardener, and the lover of 
beautiful flowers. 
THE BOOK OF GARDEN FURNITURE. 

A practical handbook to the selection, construction, and arrangement of 
the various buildings, trellises, pergolas, arches, seats, sundials, fountains, 
and other structures. 
THE BOOK OF "^HE CARNATION. By C. P. 

Brotherston and Martin K. Smith. 
THE BOOK OF THE SCENTED GARDEN. By F. W. 

BURBIDGE. 

THE BOOK OF GARDEN DESIGN. By Chari.es 

Thonger. 
THE BOOK OF THE WINTER GARDEN. By D. S. Fish. 
THE BOOK OF MARKET GARDENING. By R. Lewis 

Castle. 



THE COUNTRY HANDBOOKS 

An Illustrated Series of Practical Handbooks dealing with 
Country Life. Suitable for the Pocket or Knapsack 

Edited by HARRY ROBERTS 

Price 3S. net. Bound in Limp Cloth. Price $i.oo net 
Price 4S. net. Bound in Limp Leather. Price $1.20 net 

THE TRAMP'S HANDBOOK. By Harry Roberts. 
With over fifty illustrations by Walter Pascoe. A volume con- 
taining much valuable advice to the amateur gipsy, traveller, or 
cyclist, as to camping-out, cooking, &c. 
THE MOTOR BOOK. By R. T. Mecredy. With numer- 
ous illustrations. An invaluable handbook that should find a place 
in the library of every motorist, or even in the car itself. 
Contents : — The Motor — Change Speed Gear and Transmission — How 
to Drive — Care of the Car — Repairs and Adjustments. 
THE TREE BOOK. By Mary Knowles Jarvis. Con- 
taining varied and useful information relating to forests, together 
with a special chapter on Practical Forestry. 
Contents : — Some Famous British Forests — In the Sweet of the Year 
— Autumn's Fiery Finger — The Woods in Winter — The Music of the Trees 
— The King of the Forest— The Beech and the Elm— Plane and Poplar, 
&c., &c. — Practical Forestry. 

THE STILL ROOM. By Mrs Charles Roundell. 
A book of information upon preserving, pickling, bottling, distilling, 
&c., with many useful hints upon the dairy. 
^ Contents : — The Pickling of Meat — Butter, Eggs, and Cheese— Bott- 
ling Fruit and Vegetables — Preserves and Jellies — Wines and Cups — 
Distilling Herbs — Pickles — Refreshments for Garden Parties and Picnics 
— Pot Pourri — Food for Invalids. 

THE BIRD BOOK. By A. J. R. Roberts. A guide to 

the study of bird life, with hints as to recognising various species 

by their flight or their note. 

Contents :— General Structure and Flight— The Music of the Birds— 

Around the House — Birds of the Hedgerow — Birds of the Field— By the 

Riverside — Woodland Birds— By Marsh and Mere — Moorland Birds — 

Birds of the Sbore^AIong the Rock-bound Coast. 

THE WOMAN OUT OF DOORS. By Menie Muriel 

DowiE. 
THE STABLE HANDBOOK. By J. F. Dale. With 

numerous illustrations. 
THE FISHERMAN'S HANDBOOK. By Edgar S. 

Shrubsole. With numerous illustrations and diagrams. 
THE SAILING HANDBOOK. By Clove Hitch. With 

numerous illustrations. 

THE KENNEL HANDBOOK. By C. J. Davies. With 

numerous illustrations. 
THE GUN ROOM. By Alexander Innes Shand, 

Author of "Shooting" in "The Haddon Hall" Library. With 
numerous illustrations. 

THE LITTLE FARM. By "Home Counties." With 

numerous illustrations. 
THE COUNTRY COTTAGE. By G. LI. Morris and E. 

Wood. 
THE STABLE HANDBOOK. By T. F. Dale. 

H 



ONE & ALL SEEDS. 

Illustrated Catalogues Post Free. 



ESTD. €ll07y|l||y 1867. 




ONE & ALL SEEDS are reliable, pure and guaranteed. 
Each packet bears the Trade Mark, "One & All" in a 

garter. 
Each packet has an imprint of signature of the Managing 

Director. 
Each packet is dated with the year of issue. 

" ONE & ALL GARDENER'S CALENDAR AND GUIDE." 
Post free on application. May also be had from all 
Agents. 

ONE & ALL productions and publications are supplied by 
thousands of Local Representatives throughout the King- 
dom. They are delivered, carriage free, in large or small 
quantities. 

ONE & ALL is the Registered Trade Mark of the AGRI- 
CULTURAL AND HORTICULTURAL ASSOCIATION, 
LIMITED. Established 1867. The Pioneer Mutual 
Profit-sharing Society of rural supply. Founded by Judge 
Thomas Hughes, Q. C. (Tom Brown), John Ruskin, Edwd. 
Vansittart Neale, Lord Mount Temple, and other dis- 
tinguished friends of purity of supply. Details sent free 
by post of the Association's organisation, the interest it 
allows on Special Deposits (five per cent.), its Member- 
ship, &c., on application to EDWD. OWEN GREENING, 
Managing Director, Wholesale Seed Warehouses, 92 Long 
Acre, W.C. 

ONE & ALL FERTILISERS. 

Illustrated Catalogues Post Free. 



VEGETABLE CULTIVATION 

By WILLIAM IGGULDEN, F.R.H.S., 

is an excellent Article in 

CLAY'S SUCCESSFUL GARDENING; 

and 

CLAY'S FERTILIZER 

is an Article of World-wide fame for 

PRODUCING ALL VEGETABLES, 

as well as Flowers and Fruits, 

IN THE HIGHEST EXCELLENCE. 



t /V^* Sold everywhere in 6cl. and Is. Tins; and in 

O V Sesiled Bags— 7 lb., 2s. 6cl.; 141b., 4s. 6d.; 

V' _j,_„„"'>' 28 lb., 7s. 6d. ; 56 lb., 12s. 6d.; 112 lb., 20s. Or 

■n '-*"'"""' fl; direct from the Works, Carriage Paid in the United 

v*f^ jS/ Kingdom for Cash with Order (except 6d. Tins). 

• ■ L Every Genuine Tin, Bag, and Seal bears 

TRADEMARK the TRADE MARK. 



Full Directions for use appear in 

CLAY'S SUCCESSFUL GARDENING. 

Its contributions are by the Ablest Writers of the Day. It 
is an up-to-date Work dealing with the Culture of Flowers, 
Fruits, and Vegetables, and includes Articles upon Exhibiting, 
Judging, and Growing for Market. 

204 Fa^es. Many Illustrations. Third Edition. Bound 
in Cloth. Price pd.. Post Free, or of Seedsmen. 



Write for Full Price List of Manures, Chemicals, 
and Sundries. 

CIL.iLY Sl SONT, 

Manure Manufacturers and Bone Crushers, 
STRATFORD, LONDON, E. 



VILMORIN-ANDRIEUX & CO., 

SEED GROWERS. (Established 174S) 
QUAI DE LA MEGISSERIE, 4, PARIS (FRANCE). 

GARDENS-RVE DE REUILLY, iis, PARIS. 

SEED FARMS AND TRIAL GROUNDS— 

At 5VERRIERES-LE-BUISS0N, at MASSY-PALAISEAU 

(Seine-et-Oise), and at ANTIBES (Alpes-Maritimes). 

VEGETABLE SEEDS. I FLOWER SEEDS. 

STRAWBERRY SLIPS. | FLOWER BULBS. 

CEREALS OF GREAT PRODUCE. 

TREE AND SHRUB SEEDS. 

SEEDS OF ORANGERIE AND HOTHOUSE 

PLANTS. 

UNIVERSAL EXPOSITION, PARIS, 1900. 

e GRAND PRIZES— 735 FIRST PRIZES. 
Gold Medal for Tree Seeds, Cape Town Exhibition, 1904-5. 

CATALOGUES SENT FREE ON DEMAND. 

BOOKS BY HELEN MILMAN 

MY KALENDAR OF COUNTRY DELIGHTS. With 12 
full-page Illustrations by Donald Maxwell. Price 5s. 
net. Cr. 8vo. 

TN the GARDEN OF PEACE. With 24 Illustrations by 
Edmund H. New. Price 5s. net. Cr. 8vo. [ Third Edition. 

OUTSIDE THE GARDEN. With 10 full-page and 20 
smaller Illustrations, and a Cover-design by Edmund H. 
New. Price 5s. net. Cr. 8vo. 

FROM THE HEART OF THE ROSE : Letters on Things 
Natural, Things Serious, Things Frivolous. With a 
Cover-design by Edmund H. New. Price 5s. net. Cr. 8vo. 

MY ROSES, AND HOW I GREW THEM. With lllus- 
trations and Cover-design by Edmund H. New. Price 
ls.6d.net. Cr. 8vo. {Third Edition. 

By FRANCIS BACON 
OF GARDENS : an Essay. Edited, with Introduction, by 
Helen MiLMAN(Mrs Caldwell Crofton), and Frontis- 
piece and Cover-design by Edmund H. New. Price 
2s. 6d. net. Demy i6mo. 



BOOKS ABOUT GARDENS 



BY HARRY ROBERTS 

THE CHRONICLE OF A CORNISH 

GARDEN. With Seven Illustrations of an Ideal 
Garden by F. L. B. Gkiggs. Price 5s. net. Crown 
8vo. 

The Literary IVorld.— ^' The Chronicle is written in a franlc, un- 
affected style, and will suggest useful ideas to other garden lovers." 

The Bookman. — " It is written with grace and knowledge, and 
pleases as well as teaches." 



BY MRS LESLIE WILLIAMS 

A GARDEN IN THE SUBURBS. With 

Eight Illustrations. Price 5s. net. Crown 8vo. 

The Westminster Gazette, — " The writer knows her subjects and 
conveys her facts in an interesting manner, . . . the number of 
hints which she gives about the buying of plants are especially 
valuable. ..." 

BY THE REV. CANON ELLACOMBE 

IN MY VICARAGE GARDEN AND 

ELSEWHERE. With a Photogravure Frontispiece 
of the Author. Price 5s. net. Crown 8vo. 

The Daily Chronicle. — "One is not often fortunate enough to 
come upon a scholar in a flower garden, but Canon Ellacombe has a 
quality of his own." 

The Acctdemy, — " Canon Ellacombe writes of gardens as one who 
knows, and his latest book has a practical value. He deals with his 
subject in a manner which indicates close observation and genuine 
love." 



BY MRS MILNE-HOME 

STRAY LEAVES FROM A BORDER 

GARDEN. With Eight Illustrations by F. L. B. 
Griggs. Price 6s. net. Crown 8vo. 

The Daily Chronicle. — ' ' It i-s just the sort of book to read as one 
swings in a hammock 'underneath the bough' in the delightful 
summer afternoons." 

The Daily News. — "The garden thread runs through it all and 
it is a charming book with plenty of hints to be picked up." 



TWO ILLUSTRATED CLASSICS 



By gilbert WHITE 

THE NATURAL HISTORY OF SEL- 
BORNE. Edited, with Introduction, by Grant 
Allen. With upwards of 200 Illustrations by 
Edmund H. New. 

Price 5s. net. Crown 8vo. 

"The attraction lies chiefly in finding the masterpiece so admir- 
ably illustrated by Mr Edmund H. New. In black and white line 
work of this class he has no equal." — Country Life. 

"Mr Edmund New's drawings are not merely artistic, but full 
of the poetry of association." — Speaker, 

" We have never seen this book in a more agreeable or ap- 
propriate form." — St Jafnes's Gazette. 



By IZAAK WALTON and CHARLES COTTON 

THE COMPLEAT ANGLER. Edited, with 
an Introduction, by Richard Le Gallienne. 
With Photogravure Portraits of Walton and 
Cotton, and over 250 Illustrations and Cover- 
design by Edmund H. New. 

Price 15s. net. Fcap. 4to. 

"A delightful edition, charmingly illustrated." — Punch. 

" Of Mr Edmund H. New's illustrations we cannot speak too 
highly. We have never seen better." — Spectator. 

" One of the best editions ; one, we cannot help thinking, that 
Walton himself would have preferred." — Daily Chronicle. 

' ' A beautiful edition of Isaac Walton's immortal work. The 
great charm of the new edition is Mr New's illustrations. They are 
beautiful reproductions of surface sketches which are in complete 
harmony with the spirit of Arcadian peace, characteristic of the 
grand old angler's pages."— ra« Pall Mall Gazette. 

"This is the most delightful form that ' The Compleat Angler" 
has ever taken." — TJie Globe. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/bool<ofrarervegetOOwythrich 



HANDBOOKS OF PRACTICAL GARDENING 
EDITED BY HARRY ROBERTS 



THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



THE BOOK OF 
RARER VEGETABLES 



GEORGE WYTHES, V.M.H. 

HEAD GARDENER TO THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND 



HARRY ROBERTS 



i? 



LONDON: JOHN LANE, THE BODLEY HEAD 
NEW YORK : JOHN LANE COMPANY. MCMVI 






• • • 



TurnhuU &" Spears^ Printers^ Edinburgh 



INTRODUCTORY 

The vegetables, the culture and cooking of which are 
discussed in this volume are not all **rare" in the 
collector's sense of the word. Rather are they for the 
most part vegetables which we in this country under- 
value and under-use for the simple reason that we are 
ignorant of the art of raising and preparing them. A 
few vegetables are dealt with in this volume for no 
better reason than that they have not been dealt with in 
any other volumes of the present series of handbooks — 
which series, it is hoped, will, as a whole, form a fairly 
complete library of practical gardening. For the cultural 
instructions in the present volume, Mr Wythes is alone 
responsible. 

The majority of the better known vegetables have 
been discussed in Mr Wythes' '* Book of Vegetables," 
whilst Asparagus, Seakale, Salsify, Scorzonera, and 
Celery were treated of in our first volume. 

I take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to 
those very eminent seedsmen and horticulturists. Messieurs 
Vilmorin, Andrieux et Cie. of Paris, for the loan of 
numerous blocks used to illustrate this volume. I may 
add that if readers of this book find any difficulty in 
purchasing in this country the seeds of the lesser grown 
vegetables, Messrs Vilmorin will generally be able to 
solve their difficulty. 

The photographs here reproduced are by Mr Charles 
Thonger. 

HARRY ROBERTS. 



253066 



CONTENTS 















page 


Introductory ....... vii 


The Cookery of Vegetables 










3 


Artichoke, Globe 










5 


Artichoke, Chinese 












12 


Capsicum 












IS 


Cardoon 












i8 


Celeriac 












24 


Chervil 












*7 


Chick-Pea 












29 


Chicory 












30 


Chou de Burghley 












3^ 


Coco 












33 


CouvE Tronchuda 












34 


Dandelion 












35 


Egg Plant 












37 


Evening Primrose 












43 


Fennel . 












45 


Good King Henry 












47 


Hop . 












49 


Horse Radish . 












50 


Lentils . 












53 


Maize . 












56 


Mountain Spinach 












59 


Nasturtium 












61 


Nettle . 












64 


New Zealand Spinach 










65 


Onions, Some . 












67 



CONTENTS 



OxALis Crenata 












page 

71 


Hamburg Parsley 












75 


Patience 












77 


Potato, Congo 












79 


Potato, Fir Apple 












80 


Potato, Sweet . 












81 


QuiNOA . 

Rampion 












83 
85 


Rhubarb 












87 


Rocambole 












90 


SCOLYMUS 












91 


Scurvy Grass . 












93 


Skirret . 












95 


Sorrel . 
Soy Beans 












97 
102 


Sweet Cicely . 












103 


Tuberous Glycine 












104 


Yam 

Index 












105 
109 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 









page 


Corn Cobs . . . . . 


Frontispiece 


Large Greln Paris Artichoke 




. 


5 


Globe Artichokes 




To face page 


6 


Chinese Artichoke 




. 


13 


Spanish Mammoth Capsicums . 




. 


»5 


Capsicums 




To face page 


16 


Prickly Tours Cardoon 




. 


19 


Celeriac 




. 


*5 


Bkoad-leaved Chicory . 






30 


Chicory Roots . 




To face page 


30 


Braganza, Portugal, or Sea-Kale Cabbage 


. 


34 


Thick-leaved, or Cabbaging, Dandelion 




35 


Long Purple Egg Plant 




38 


Aubergine, or Egg Plant 


To face page 


40 


Evening Primrose 


. 


43 


FiNocHio, OR Florence Fennel 


, . . 


45 


Horse Rajish . . . , 


» 


5» 


Large Yellow Lentil . 


. 


54 


Maize . . . - . 


. 


57 


TuBEROUS-ROOTED NaSTURTIUM . 




62 


China-Grass Silvery Nettle . 


• 


64 


New Zealand Spinach . 


. 


65 


Tubers of Oka-Plant, Oxalis Crenata 




72 


Early Hamburg Parsley 


• • . 


75 


Herb Patience, or Patience Dock 


. 


77 


Potato Vitelotte 


. 


. 


79 



XI 1 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 











PAGE 


" Rose de Maiaya " Sweet Potato . 


. 


gl 


Sweet Potatoes . , 


To face page 


82 


Rampion . 


. 


85 


Rhubarb Stalks 








88 


Golden Thistle . . 








91 


Scurvy Grass .... 








93 


Skirret ..... 








95 


Common Broad-leaved French Sorrel 








98 


£tampes Yellow Soy Beau 








102 


Chinese Yam .... 








106 


Yams ...... 


To face pa 


le 


106 



THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



THE COOKERY OF VEGETABLES 

Vegetables, at any rate so far as private houses are 
concerned, are rarely cooked even tolerably in this 
country. Yet a very little knowledge and skill, and 
merely reasonable care, are all that is required in order 
to achieve success. The following few general instruc- 
tions may be helpful to the novice. All vegetables should 
be carefully cleaned, though unnecessary washing should 
be avoided. Potatoes and earthy roots should be well 
scrubbed and rinsed in cold water before being peeled. 
All dead leaves, or discoloured parts, should be removed 
from vegetables before being cooked. Cabbages and 
other vegetables likely to contain slugs or other creatures 
should be soaked for some time in cold water containing 
a tablespoonful of vinegar to the quart. Vegetables 
should not be bruised or squeezed before being cooked, 
or their qualities will largely be lost. The sooner 
vegetables are cooked after being removed from the 
garden, the finer will be their flavour and texture. 
With the exception of old potatoes and dried vegetables, 
such as lentils, all vegetables should be placed in boiling 
water containing a tablespoonful of salt to the gallon. 
Green vegetables should be boiled in abundance of 
water, with the lid of the pan off, whereas roots should 
be boiled with the lid on. All vegetables should be 
drained directly they are cooked. 

The recipes which follow are merely a selected few, 
and are in no sense meant to be complete. Those 
interested should consult also ** The Book of Asparagus " 
and "The Book of Vegetables" in the present series'; 



4 ..TJiE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

" ' Mrs koundeirs "Practical Cookery Book" ; Wyvern's 
"Vegetarian and Simple Diet"; Janet Ross' "Leaves 
from our Tuscan Kitchen " ; Mrs Waters' " The Cook's 
Decameron"; Mrs de Sale's "Dressed Vegetables a la 
Mode": "Vegetables" in the Queen Cookery Book 
Series ; and Miss Florence Jack's " Vegetables." 



THE 

BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE 

The Globe Artichoke {Cynara Scolymus) is closely allied 
to the Cardoon, but in the latter the stalk, when 




LARGE GREEN IMRIS ARTICHOKE 
(One-third natu7-al size) 



blanched, is the edible portion, whereas the former is 
grown for its immature flower heads, of which the fleshy 
part at the base is the portion used. It is by no means 



6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

a popular vegetable, and in some parts of the country the 
plant winters badly. In my opinion damp is a greater 
evil than frost, as in the northern part of the country, on 
the Scottish border, we rarely lost a plant in winter, 
whereas here in the south plants die in a wholesale 
manner, new plantations being needed annually. The 
plant is a hardy perennial, a native of the southern parts 
of Europe ; and there are not many varieties in this 
country, though in France, where this vegetable is a 
greater favourite, there are at least half a dozen named 
kinds. The large Purple and the Green are the best 
known, and the round-headed types are much the best, 
those with prickly pointed scales having less substance 
and being less valuable though the growths are doubt- 
less tender. The plant is easily raised from seed ; but 
no dependence can be placed upon plants thus raised, as 
though a few may by chance be good, the greater portion 
will be poor spiny things that have small heads with 
little substance. It is best therefore to rely upon the 
smaller growths — at the base these are produced freely — 
and to make a new quarter every three years. In Italy 
the plants are often made to produce what are termed 
Chards ; that is, the plants are not only grown for their 
flower heads but the leaf or stalk is used after blanching 
in the same way as Cardoons. The plants are cut over 
early and the new leaf growths that form are tied 
together, blanched and used like a Cardoon. This may 
with advantage be followed out in this country when the 
plants begin to fail through age. Previous to their being 
destroyed, they may be made serviceable by giving a crop 
of chards. In Paris the large Green Artichoke is the 
greater favourite. This is called the de Laon, and 
grown beside the ordinary green type it has several 
points in its favour, the one most notable being its suc- 
culent scales. This variety is a great favourite in the 
Paris markets, and early in the season there are consider- 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE 7 

able quantities imported into this country. There is a 
Purple variety that does well in this country, having 
much the same character as the large Green and only 
differing in colour ; and there is a smaller form that is 
largely grown abroad called the Perpetual, and this differs 
from the Globe or large round headed, the scales being 
more curved inwards at the tops. The plants produce 
freely till cut down by frost when grown in this country. 
In France the Perpetual is much liked when cooked 
before it is full grown, and in sheltered positions may be 
had nearly the whole year. It is of a purplish gray colour. 
As regards cultural details, they may be described as 
simple, providing deeply dug land not too heavy is 
given, and well enriched with manure. The plant being 
a gross feeder needs ample food. An open position should 
be selected, and in clayey soils I have seen burnt refuse 
or old leaf soil used to advantage. I have previously 
noted that it is well to plant every three years ; indeed 
where there is a large demand for fine heads I would 
prefer making a new quarter yearly, as by so doing the 
plants produce finer heads and continue to form them 
much later in the season. The plant in light or gravelly 
soils is soon affected by drought, and in such soils there 
should always be liberal top dressings in the way of 
mulching, the latter given just as the plants commence 
to form heads, and copious supplies of liquid manure 
will be beneficial. The plant also enjoys occasional 
dressing of salt, and in gardens where liquid manure is 
unobtainable I would advise a liberal dressing of fertiliser 
of a quick acting nature. Doubtless the most important 
point is to get a good variety and keep it by root division 
early in the spring, the land having been previously pre- 
pared ; indeed it is well to dig and manure the land some 
weeks in advance of planting if the soil is not of a 
clayey nature, as then it is in better condition for the 
plant. The suckers are taken from the parent plant 



8 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

when about 8 to lo inches long, or less would suffice, 
but each one should be taken with a heel •, that is, a 
small portion of the stem of the old plant is slipped off, 
and often with this will be some small roots attached, the 
stools or old plants being carefully uncovered to get at 
the young sucked growth. In planting there are two 
ways: either in straight rows 1 8 inches apart, 3 feet 
between the rows, or three suckers in a clump 9 to 12 
inches apart and 4 feet between the rows in places where 
plants winter well. I prefer the last named; and in other 
places the single plant system, as I find the plants can be 
more readily protected. In planting make each sucker firm 
and water thoroughly, and mulch over in dry seasons. 
In heavy land I would advise making raised mounds for 
each lot of plants by liberal additions to the soil of 
lighter materials ; and by raising and using rotten manure 
freely, the plants do much better than on the surface if 
the soil is clayey or at all wet. The plants will give a 
few heads the first season, but later than the older 
ones ; but they will give a much later crop, and often, say 
in October or early November, there will be no lack of 
good heads from the young plants, and these, if cut 
with a few inches of stalk and placed in water, may be 
kept for weeks in a cool root store. At the approach 
of frost the plants should have all the old stalks removed, 
the long leaf foliage also being reduced to about 18 
inches, and yellow leaves entirely cut away, and a good 
thickness of dry bracken or litter placed over the, 
roots, closely packing round the stems of the plants, 
as from this portion next season's suckers will be 
obtained. In gardens where these plants winter badly 
I have found it advantageous to lift a few young 
stools, and to divide and plant them in a cold frame ; 
or they may be potted if a special variety. In March 
the protecting material is removed, and after a little 
exposure the new planting, if needed, is done, the old 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE 9 

plants are liberally manured, and the plants will soon 
begin to form heads. In some parts of the kingdom 
protection is not necessary ; and here growth is earlier, 
so that the plant in open quarters may be divided earlier 
than April, but the growers must be governed by the 
locality, soil, and surroundings. If the suckers are ob- 
tained from any distance they should be packed in wet 
moss, and in all cases there should be ample supplies of 
moisture when required during the growing season. 
The season for gathering of the heads is important, as if 
too large they are dry and iiavourless, and though they 
may be used in a small state they are lacking the flavour 
of a quickly grown large succulent head. The heads 
are best just before the centre scales begin to unfold and 
whilst the outer ones are quite plump and fresh. The 
crop early in the spring may be hastened by covering 
the new growths at night by mats over stakes, also by 
giving food in the shape of nitrates and fish manure, 
the latter well washed down to the roots. 

To Boil Globe Artichokes 

Having cut off the stem level with the leaves, and 
having cut an inch or so from the top leaves, and 
removed the harder of the bottom leaves, clean and 
wash the Artichokes and plunge them into boiling salted 
water. Boil for half an hour or so, till the leaves are 
easily removed. Dish on a folded napkin, and serve 
with oil and vinegar. Sauce Hollandais, or melted butter. 

A French Method of Cooking Artichokes 

A French method of cooking Artichokes is the follow- 
ing, given by M. Urbain-Dubois : Trim the vegetable 
as before, then quarter it, scoop out the ** choke" 
(i.e.y the undeveloped flower), rub the inside well 
with lemon juice, and three parts boil in acidulated 
slated water ; then drain well, place in a buttered 



lo THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

stewpan, season with salt and white pepper, put little 
morsels of butter over them, and stew gently over a 
slow fire till cooked, when they may be served with 
a maitre d^ hotel sauce (to half a pint of rich be- 
chamel or good brown sauce — if you wish it brown — 
add the strained juice of a lemon, a dust of cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, and, worked in at the 
last, I J ounces to 2 ounces of butter broken up small, 
working one piece well in before adding the next), or 
any other sauce to taste. 

The two following recipes are given by Mrs de 
Sahs in her useful little book called " Dressed Vegetables 
a la Mode." 

Artichoke Bottoms a la CARfeME 

Fonds d^ Artichauts a la Careme 

Wash the Artichokes thoroughly. Boil them till they 
are nearly tender ; drain them, remove the middle 
leaves and the Chokes, and lay in each a little of a 
forcemeat composed of six oysters, one sardine, two 
anchovies, and a few shrimps or prawns or pieces of 
lobster, all minced finely together, and put into a 
sauce made of a grated tablespoonful of horse radish, 
half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of capers, and one gill of 
white sauce. Let this boil up, then stir in the fish 
mixture, fill the Artichokes, and bake in the oven till 
tender and done. Scatter lobster coral on the top of 
each before serving, or alternately lobster coral and 
grated fried parsley. 

Artichoke Bottoms A la Kaiser 

Fonds d^ Artichauts h la Kaiser 

Cook some Artichoke bottoms ; season them with a 
little grated Parmesan cheese. Take some plain round 



GLOBE ARTICHOKE ii 

glossy tomatoes and place one on each Artichoke ; lay 
some mushroom puree on the top of each, taking care 
to smooth it well ; place each Artichoke on a fried 
crouton masked with the tomato puree, and put them 
in a deep tin dish, and bake them in the oven (which 
must not be a fierce one) for about ten minutes. Just 
before serving, sprinkle a little fine-chopped parsley over, 
and curl an anchovy on the top of each round a sprig 
of parsley that has been heated in the oven. 



CHINESE ARTICHOKE 

The Chinese Artichoke — or Stachys tuherifera — is a 
hardy tuberous-rooted perennial, and though a small 
root is a welcome addition to the winter vegetables. It 
is not always well grown"; and on this account is not 
always made the best use of, as unless given good 
culture the plant gives much smaller tubers and is 
of much less value. The culture is most simple. 
The plant, though small, should not be crowded, 
and it does best in a well-drained, well-enriched free 
working soil, and the plant to get large tubers should 
never be allowed to suffer from drought in the growing 
season. It differs much from the older forms of Arti- 
choke, as the plant rarely exceeds 1 8 inches in height; 
and this shows that a wide space is not needed between 
the rows — 18 inches will suffice, and 6 to 9 inches in the 
row ; the growth being weakly a well-worked or fine 
surface soil is necessary. In heavy clay soils I have 
made such soil suitable by having raised beds, making 
the top soil lighter by liberal additions of burnt garden 
refuse, old fine mortar rubble, and any old potting or leaf 
soil, the tubers when planted being covered with the 
light material. Planting is done early in the spring just 
before growth commences, and it is a good plan to draw 
drills 6 inches deep and place the small tubers in 
position at the distances advised above. When the 
tubers are forming freely, say in July and August, it will 
be found of great advantage to give liquid manure or 
flood the quarter, using a quick acting fertiliser if liquid 
manure is not at hand. Another important point is to 



CHINESE ARTICHOKE 



13 



plant good seed. It should be borne in mind that a small 
weak tuber cannot possibly yield equal produce to a 
well-nourished one, as though there may be no question 
as to its growing freely a goodly portion of the season 
is taken up in building up a plant before it can pro- 




CHINESE ARTICHOKE 



duce tubers. This plant has a tendency to make 
small growths, and we have obtained the best results 
from a strong seed tuber by keeping the plants free from 
the small shoots, only allowing the strong ones. In 
dry gravelly soils there is a great gain by giving a rich 
surface mulch, to retain moisture. The plant is very 
hardy, and in well-drained soil, after the tops die down, 



14 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

the tubers may remain in their growing quarters. In other 
cases it may be necessary to lift in November and store 
in fine soil or sand in a cool shed. The quality of the 
tubers suffers greatly if they become dried or shrivel, 
which frequently happens if lifted too early or given 
warm storage. So that whenever possible it is advis- 
able to winter the tubers where grown, and lift as re- 
quired for use. The plant left to chance soon becomes 
a nuisance, as it runs wild and is of little value, but 
given good cultivation may be made a valuable winter 
vegetable. In no case should the tubers be exposed to the 
light, as they quickly lose their ivory white colour and 
assume a dirty yellowish cast. In most gardens it would 
be found a good plan to give this vegetable change of 
quarters every other season, taking care that the smallest 
tubers are removed from the soil, otherwise there will be 
a difficulty in getting rid of small useless growths. In no 
case should the plants have a shaded position, but an 
open one, and a rich root run with ample moisture. The 
tubers are at their best as a vegetable from November 
to April, and many persons like them mixed with salads 
when cooked, and they impart a peculiar flavour in a raw 
state. They more resemble a large Radish. 

To Boil Chinese Artichokes 

Wash and plunge the Artichokes into boiling salted 
water. Boil them for from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
and serve with melted butter or sauce Hollandaise. 



To Fry Chinese Artichokes 

Chinese Artichokes are delicious when washed as 
above and merely dried and then fried in boiling oil 
or butter. When browned, serve hot on buttered 
toast. They may also be covered with egg and bread 
crumbs and cooked whole, being fried as above. 



CAPSICUM 



The Capsicum {Capsicum annuwn) is not largely culti- 
vated in this country. Owing to our short seasons, it can 
never be much of a favourite. The small varieties are 
mostly grown for decora- 
tion, but my note more 
refers to their use as a 
vegetable in a green 
state ; and in the United 
States and parts of the 
continent the large kinds 
are grown for that pur- 
pose. There are a large 
numberof varieties grown 
in the countries named, 
but it would serve no use- 
ful purpose to enumerate 
them. Some of the huge 
growers more resemble 
Tomatoes, as regards 
size, than the ordinary 
pepper. Some of the 
kinds, again, are small 
and more useful for 
salads. Others, when 
dried, are largely used to 
flavour Pickles, and these 
are mostly small with a very pungent flavour. The 
culture is simple if a glass protection can be given at 
the start. Indeed, I would, to get the best results, 

15 




SPANISH MAMMOTH CAPSICUMS 

{One-third natural size) 



1 6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

advise frame culture. Seeds are best sown in February 
or March in pots or pans, in light rich soil in j 
warm bed, and, when large enough, packed off into 
small pots, again placing under glass ; and they may 
be grown in pots to fruit, being shifted on into 6 
or 7-inch pots and grown on shelves near the light, 
or what is better, grown in frames near the glass. A 
frame that has grown Potatoes or early vegetables 
will grow excellent Capsicums if the soil is kept and 
there is warmth. Planted out there are much finer and 
heavier crops, and the plants continue to fruit if the 
green ones are gathered as required. A portion may 
be planted out on a warm border, but care must be 
taken to keep down red spider by damping overhead 
in the afternoon ; and they will, both in frames and in 
the open ground, take liberal supplies of food in the 
shape of liquid manure. 

Capsicums 

The dried fruits may be ground as required to furnish 
cayenne pepper, or the green Capsicums may be cooked 
as suggested in '* Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen." 

Capsicums " Farciti." No. I 

Select large green sweet Capsicums, and for each one 
take half a pound of minced roast or boiled fowl, 
half a pound of grated bread-crumbs, a little salt 
and pepper, and some chopped parsley, and mix ; add 
two ounces of melted butter and mix again. Meanwhile 
cut off one end of the Capsicums (remove the seeds), and 
put the Capsicums into a saucepan of boiling water ; 
cover the pan and let it boil for about a quarter of an 
hour. Then drain the Capsicums well, fill them with 
the forcemeat, and sprinkle them over with bread- 
crumbs. Put some butter in an earthen pan and cook the 
Capsicums in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. 



CAPSICUM 17 

Capsicums " Farciti." No. 2 

Fry six medium-sized green sweet Capsicums for one 
minute in boiling fat, drain, peel, and cut off the ends, 
keeping them to use as covers. Remove the insides, 
and fill them with forcemeat made of minced fresh 
pork, a spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, half 
a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and the same of 
powdered thyme. Put on the ends, lay the Capsicums 
in a well-oiled baking-dish, add a little pure olive oil, 
and put them in a moderate oven to bake for a quarter 
of an hour. Turn them on to a hot dish, and serv? 
with a quarter of a pint of Vellutata sauce with a little 
Marsala added. 

Capsicums '* al Forno" 

Cut two or more green Capsicums in two lengthwise, 
remove the seeds and filaments, and parboil them in 
boiling water for five minutes. Fill each half with an 
equal quantity of softened bread-crumb and minced 
meat, seasoned with butter, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Then put them into a baking-dish in half an inch of 
good stock (or water), and bake. Serve in the baking- 
dish hot. 



CARDOON 

The Cardoon {Cynara cardunculus) is by no means 
a common vegetable, but is one well worth extended 
cultivation, being distinct from other vegetables. It is 
a perennial belonging to the southern parts of Europe. 
This plant is closely related to the artichoke; indeed it 
may be thought that the Globe variety and the Cardoon 
are one, but with the latter plant it is the fleshy leaf- 
stalk that is edible, and in this the plant more re- 
sembles Celery. The stalks or ribs of the plants are 
blanched like Celery, and may be cooked in a variety 
of ways, and when well served they constitute a tender 
and good dish, but I fear the cooking of this vegetable 
in this country is not well known. On the continent 
the Cardoon is much esteemed, and considered a choice 
dish. There are some half-dozen varieties under culti- 
vation. I am aware that nominally there are more, 
but they vary mostly in name and in the size of the 
plant. The commoner form has spineless leaves, the 
leaf-stalk is solid, but mere size does not in this vege- 
table like others denote quality, as I have found that 
the larger growers are different in flavour and less 
tender or succulent. This should be borne in mind, as 
in all vegetables, common or otherwise, it is important 
to grow those that give the best quality. The Spanish 
Cardoon is the variety mostly grown in this country, 
and the kind that nursery and seedsmen usually send 
if the Cardoon is asked for, and no specific variety 
stated, but it is by no means the best, and is a 
large grower having spineless leaves, and like the 



CARDOON 



19 



common it is apt to run to seed. This latter is a 
great fault, as the culture entails considerable expense 
of labour and space, and when this is lost by premature 
seeding it is most annoying. The Tours Cardoon is a 
variety much liked in France, and unfortunately this is 




PRICKLY TOURS CARDOON 
{One-fifteenth natural size) 



excessively spiny and most difficult to work amongst or 
handle as the long sharp spines are most disagreeable. 
On the other hand, this variety produces a better stalk 
than the others noted above, the stalk or leaf being 
thicker, more solid, and when cooked of superior quality, 
and this variety is less subject to run to seed, and may 
therefore be classed as one of the most suitable in 



20 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

every way. Some varieties are not nearly as hardy 
as others, but the Tours is one of the best in this 
respect. The best Cardoon I ever grew was from some 
seed given me by a celebrated traveller. It was a reddish 
stem or leaf-stalk not unlike the Marseilles, but much 
smaller, and of such a tender nature it was soon injured 
by cold. I was unable afterwards to get it true from 
home-grown seed, as it produced inferior stock. The 
Marseilles is a red stemmed Cardoon, having large leaves 
and smooth, and a solid stalk of good quality. The 
Puvis is a very large grower, having a thick leaf-stalk, 
very solid, and a thick or close leaf growth with very 
few spines ; it is also a free grower that does not soon 
run to seed, and when cooked it is considered one of the 
best. This I consider one of the best for ordinary garden 
culture, as, owing to the spineless or nearly spineless 
nature, it is much better and more readily handled. The 
above comprise the best known kinds, and the selection 
will be considered quite large enough for ordinary 
purposes. 

The plant needs more space than many other vege- 
tables. Its culture is not v/ell known, and the plant is 
much better when raised under glass and planted out, 
getting a longer season's growth if this is done. A 
warm, well-drained soil, well enriched with manure, in 
an open position, is the best. Doubtless, in this country, 
the trench system in the same way as Asparagus is grown 
is the most reliable. Seed may be sown in pots under 
glass for an early supply in March, or early in April to 
plant out the end of May. Many good cultivators sow in 
heat, but I do not advise it, as given merely glass or 
cold frame shelter at the start, a sturdier plant is 
obtained and there is less risk at the planting out. 
At the start very little moisture is required till the 
seedlings have germinated, and it is well to sow these 
seeds in small pots ; and when these are well above 



CARDOON 21 

the soil, thin to the largest and grow near the glass, 
and give the seedlings ample ventilation as growth 
increases. For the planting out, the ground or trenches 
should be prepared in advance, and even when the 
plants are grown in the open from the start this advice 
still applies. The trenches should be at least 4 feet apart, 
and 1 2 inches deep, not taking into account the manure 
which is placed in the bottom of the trench, of which 
there should be at least 6 inches. This is dug in, and 
the plants placed at 18 inches apart in the trench. For 
the large growers more room is advantageous. To get 
the plants for the first supply — I mean those raised under 
glass, and when this plant is liked two or three lots 
may be grown, thus forming a succession — the same 
routine may be followed as concerns the land and 
spaces, but the seed may be sown in the trench, a few 
seeds dropped in at intervals of 18 inches lightly 
covered with soil, and when large enough thinned to 
the strongest. Doubtless this is the best system, for 
medium-sized produce, when only one lot of plants is 
grown, as should the least check occur to the plants 
raised in heat they invariably bolt or run to seed. If 
a late lot of plants should be required, seed may be 
sown in June, but the end of April or early in May 
is the best time for the open ground plants. All 
varieties are obtained from seed, and at the start the 
growth is slow in comparison with the after-growth as 
the plant will make rapid progress after midsummer 
providing there is no lack of moisture. 

The after-management of the plants is simple. It 
may be summed up as plenty of food in the shape of 
moisture and liquid manure, and attention to moulding 
up, that is, blanching and protection from frost and rain. 
As regards the blanching, the plants should be full 
grown or nearly so before this is attempted ; I do not 
advise doing the work before October, and it should 



22 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

be done in fine weather. Any of the lower small or 
yellow leaves should be cleaned away, and those that are 
to be blanched should be secured in an upright position ; 
if they are at all spiny this needs care, as they break 
readily, and I find it best to give several loose ties. These 
can be removed as the work proceeds. To cover the 
lower portion of the stalks many persons use haybands. 
These are wound round from the base and a good body 
of soil pressed close against the haybands to exclude 
air and moisture, the upper portion for 12 inches only 
being drawn together, not moulded. There are other 
methods. Large drain pipes may be used. These drawn 
over the plant and then filled in with fine soil or sand 
answer well. I have also seen stout brown paper or coarse 
canvas bands used in the place of haybands, but whatever 
is used must be sufficient to effect the blanching and 
exclude air. If the plants are moulded up early in 
October, they will be fit for use in a month's time. 
The later plants should be left growing as long as 
possible before covering. The plant is tender, but it 
may be kept good for some time if lifted before being 
frozen, preserving the root, and placing in a dry place. 1 
have lifted and placed them in sand in a root store, getting 
a good ball of earth, and kept them sound till March. 
The later and medium-sized plants winter well grown 
from seed, as they are smaller and lift well. If it is 
desired to save any good kind, the plant is easily 
produced from suckers, but then there must be no 
'blanching, and it will be necessary in most places to 
protect from frost or, what is better, to place stools in 
frames, or pot up and plant out in the spring ; but I 
think this plant quickly degenerates if grown in the 
same soil for years, and as good material can be obtained 
from seed, I do not advise growing plants for general 
use. The Cardoon is in season from October till 
March. 



CARDOON 23 

To Cook Cardoons 

The best way to cook Cardoons is to follow Mrs 
Roundell's advice and to cut them into four or five inch 
lengths, and throw them into boiling water into which a 
little lemon-juice has been squeezed. Keep the 
Cardoons boiling till their outer woolly skin will rub off 
in a cloth. Drain them, and throw them into cold water. 
When the Cardoons have cooled, scrape them, and pull 
off the stringy skin. Fill a crockery stewpan with boil- 
ing water flavoured with pepper and salt, lay a good- 
sized piece of raw bacon at the bottom, cutting the rind 
in strips, add a bunch of herbs, and then the Cardoons. 
Simmer gently till the Cardoons are tender, which may 
take two hours or more, according to their age and size. 
Drain the Cardoons and warm them up in good brown 
sauce. Or they can be served with white, sauce. 
Wyvern advises that Cardoons should be placed on 
slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, with 
more bacon above them, and only just enough bianc to 
cover all. Then add slices of lemon, a little mignonette, 
pepper, and salt, cover the pan, and let the Cardoons 
simmer very gently till done. The blanc is a sort of 
stock which is used in boiling celery or any white vege- 
table to preserve the colour. To make blanc^ cut up as 
small as possible a quarter of a pound of beef suet, and 
put it with a tablespoonful of flour into three and a half 
pints of cold water in a stewpan. Boil up and add eight 
ounces of onion cut up small, a bunch of curly parsley, 
a tablespoonful of dried thyme or marjoram, the rind of 
a lemon, a teaspoonful of sugar and one of salt. Stir 
well over a brisk fire for half an hour, strain, but do not 
take ofl' the fat as the blanc cooks. When the Cardoons 
or other vegetables are cooked in blatic^ put in with 
them two or three slices of lemon freed from pips, to 
improve the colour. 



CELERIAC 

Celeriac, or Turnip-rooted Celery, is a great favourite 
in cold countries, and is more largely grown than 
Celery. It diiFers in shape, and its season is from 
October to April. It is described as Turnip rooted, 
but this is scarcely a good description, as it widens at the 
base and is of a more rugged build than a Turnip. It 
is harder than Celery, and can be made a valuable sub- 
stitute when cooked and sliced with salads. There are 
very few kinds grown. If the best is required, it is well 
to get a continental variety. Our seedsmen do not often 
get called upon to furnish the seed of this vegetable : 
whereas quite half a dozen are catalogued by the Messrs 
Vilmorin of Paris. A few years ago I made a trial of 
the best kinds, and they were worth special notice as the 
quality was splendid. The culture differs from Celery, 
as here the root is the edible portion, not the stalk, and 
there is no blanching. And what makes Celeriac so 
useful is that it keeps sound for quite six months after 
being full grown. Large quantities of well-grown 
roots are imported into this country, but there is no 
difficulty in growing the best produce at home if seed 
is sown in heat or under glass in the same way as Celery, 
the seedlings bping picked out when large enough, and 
finally planted out in rows, 2 feet apart and 12 inches 
between the plants. A rich root run is necessary, and 
ample food in the shape of liquid manure is well repaid 
as the plant is a gross feeder. I have in light land 
planted in rather deep drills, as grown thus it is an 
easy matter to feed and give moisture. The planting 



CELERIAC 25 

out should be done in May or June, and the after- 
management is simple, merely hoeing between the plants 
and keeping the ground clean. In October the bulbs 
are ready for use, and they may be lifted, the tops 
twisted off, and then stored in fine ashes or soil in a cool 
store. I have in the southern part of the kingdom left 
the roots in their growing quarters and covered with 




litter or dry Bracken in severe weather. This is an 
advantage in some respects, as in the soil the roots keep 
much firmer and are sweeter or of a more nutty flavour. 
In planting it is well to remove all side growths, re- 
stricting to the one central growth. This must also be 
done occasionally in the summer months, and it may be 
necessary to remove a small portion of the top soil to 
get at the side or split growths. A few weeks before 
the plants are lifted it is a good plan to draw a little 
soil well into the foliage. This will cause the upper 
part of the root to get better coloured or partially 



26 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

blanched. I have referred to varieties, and there are 
three well worth naming. The Giant Prague, a large 
root, and one that is much grown in Germany. It is 
of good quality, being solid and a good keeper. The 
smaller Erfurt Celeriac, a most useful garden variety 
and of splendid quality. This is a favourite in the 
London market, and one of the varieties much imported. 
The Paris Ameliore, a variety much grown for the Paris 
markets, is also very good. There are several others, 
but those named are enough for all purposes, as they are 
the best. 

To Cook Celeriac 

To cook Celeriac, peel the roots, quarter them, and 
plunge them into plenty of boiling salted water and boil 
them till tender, either in the water used to blanch them, 
or else in weak stock. They are then served with a 
sauce according to taste. Celeriac, in the form of a 
puree, makes a useful garnish for poultry or cutlets. 

It is also delicious when cooked and served in the 
same way as Beetroot, being sliced and placed in vinegar ; 
or it may be sliced in a raw state and fried in butter till 
nearly brown. •_ 



CHERVIL 

The ordinary garden Chervil {ChoerGphyllum bulbosum) 
is more often grown than the bulbous-rooted form, or 
what is commonly called the vegetable Chervil. The 
latter is a hardy biennial and a native of Southern 
Europe, and in shape not unlike a Parsnip, or as regards 
size resembles an ordinary Short-Horn Carrot. I need 
not touch the fine leaved variety ; doubtless this will be 
described in the work on salads or herbs. It is used for 
soups, salads, and garnishing. The flavour of the bulbous- 
rooted form is very distinct from most other vegetables ; 
the flesh is a yellowish white, rather sweet but not un- 
pleasant, and more floury than the Parsnip. As an article 
of food it is well worth a trial in all gardens where 
variety in vegetables is valued, but the seed requires more 
time to germinate than many of our common vegetables, 
and therefore cannot be termed profitable, though the 
produce from a small piece of land often repays the 
grower. The best mode of culture, that is to get roots 
in one season, is to place the seed in the autumn in sand 
or fine soil in boxes. This placed in a frame or any frost 
proof position will cause the seeds to germinate quickly 
when sown in February or March the next season, as it 
is an easy matter to sow the seed mixed with the soil 
in drills 15 inches apart, thinning the plants to half that 
distance in the row. The plant thrives in any ordinary 
garden soil, and when in full growth soon forms a bulb 
and is fit for use. The older plan of sowing early in 
the autumn on an open quarter may be carried out in 
the southern parts of the country in well-drained soil. It 



28. THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

is best to sow in September ; and grown thus the roots 
will be of good quality and ready to lift at the end of the 
summer, as they will show their maturity by the leaves 
colouring and decaying. It is well to store the roots 
when growth ceases in a cool root store or cellar, and 
not exposed to the light. They remain good a consider- 
able time, and the roots should be kept free of moisture. 

To Boil Chervil 
Wash and brush the roots, but do not cut them. 
Place them in a pan, pour over them sufficient boiling 
water to cover them, and let them simmer for about an 
hour and a half. 

To Fry Chervil 

Cook the roots as above for about an hour, then cut 
into long shreds and fry in butter. 



CHICK-PEA 

The Chick-pea {Cker arletinum), commonly called the 
Egyptian Pea, and more largely used on the con- 
tinent than in this country, is an annual plant, a 
native of South Europe, and it is there largely culti- 
vated for its seeds, though in this country we rarely 
have warm or dry enough summers to ripen the 
seeds. There are several varieties, but as they only 
differ in the colour of the seeds I need not enumerate 
them ; still the various colours are valued for cooking 
purposes, and they are mostly employed in soups or 
purees, and though somewhat firm in texture they are 
much liked. Belonging to the Pea family the plant 
needs similar treatment as regards its culture. Sown in 
drills 3 feet apart, the seed in the drill being placed 
thinly, and the plants given good soil, they produce their 
small pods in abundance. These should be gathered 
before the seeds are quite ripe and given cool storage. 
They keep a long time, and the best pods are produced 
from spring-sown plants on an open sunny border. In 
the United States the plant does very well, and is more 
grown than in this country. 

To Cook Chick-Peas 

The dried seeds of the Chick-pea may be cooked in 
any of the ways usually employed to cook dry Peas. 
Excellent chick-pea soup and chick-pease-pudding can 
be made. Rarely, the seeds are roasted and used as a 
very vile substitute for coffee. 



CHICORY 



Chicory is a plant largely used for salad purposes, but 
it is also valuable as a vegetable when well served, as it 
possesses properties that are rare in other vegetables. 
Upon its use as a salad I do not intend to dwell as 
this will be described elsewhere. For vegetable uses 
it needs much the same culture, but a better plant is 
required to secure fine growth. 

Those persons who have an opportunity of seeing our 

large markets in 
towns may have ob- 
served neat bundles 
or baskets of Chi- 
cory imported from 
the continent, the 
blanched growths 
being somewhat 
like Seakale, and 
that is the edible 
portion used as a 
vegetable. The 
green leaves not 
forced may also be used like Spinach, and they produce 
so freely in the spring, when ordinary Spinach is scarce, 
that they may be termed a good substitute. To get 
forced material the seeds are sown in April or May 
in deeply dug land, in rows 15 to 1 8 inches apart and 
the seedlings thinned to 9 inches in the row. In the 
late autumn the roots are lifted as required and placed 
in a dark place or mushroom house, and the growths 




BROAD-LEAVED CHICORY 
(One-eighth natural size) 





*f 



■^. 



CHICORY ROOTS 



CHICORY 31 

are cut when from 4 to 6 inches long. It is the 
large or crown growth that is most valuable ; for salad 
purposes the smaller leafage is best. As regards 
varieties a large grower is most suitable, and doubtless 
the Whitloof, a variety much grown on the continent, 
is the best. This gives a larger growth than the com- 
mon Barbe de Capucin. There are not many kinds of 
the rooting varieties, but numerous ones of the leaf or 
salad or French Chicory, as under this name the Endives 
are grown in great variety. 

To Cook Chicory 

The green leaves of Chicory may be cooked in spring 
by scalding them for five or six minutes in boiling salted 
water, draining through acolander, throwingtheleaves into 
cold water, again draining, and then cutting up the leaves. 
The chopped leaves should next be placed in a saucepan 
containing ( for each pound of fresh Chicory leaves ) half 
an ounce of flour, a quarter of an ounce of butter, and a 
little pepper and salt, which has been heated over the 
fire for three or four minutes. Stir all together over a 
gentle fire for five minutes, and then add a teacupful of 
milk or broth, and stir over the fire till nearly dry. 
Take the pan from the fire and add about an ounce of 
butter, stir, and serve on a hot dish. Always use plenty 
of water in blanching the leaves. 

The blanched stems are cooked like Seakale. 



CHOU DE BURGHLEY 

This plant belongs to the Brassicas, and is part 
cabbage and part Brocoli, and is doubtless the result 
of a cross, but all the same is really a very excellent 
vegetable for autumn and winter supplies. This 
was raised by the late Mr Gilbert, a good grower 
of vegetables,, and is well worth room in all gardens. 
As regards its quality few persons could find a more 
delicious vegetable, as the small hearts or Brocoli portion 
of the plant is really first rate, and if used as a cabbage 
it is excellent. It needs similar culture to the early 
Brocoli. Sown in March, and planted out in May, 2 
feet apart, in good land deeply dug and manured it does 
well. It is very hardy, and grows freely in the northern 
or exposed portions of the country. I have had two 
lots of plants, an early and later one ; and grown thus 
there is a long supply. 



coco 

The Coco {Colocasia esculenta) as an article of food 
would not be popular in this country, but in the tropics 
it is grown as a field plant under the name of Coco, 
and the tuberous root is used as food, being used much 
in the same way as the Sweet Potato, boiled, roasted, 
or baked, and at times the leaves in a young state 
are used as a vegetable. This plant in this country 
is mostly known as Caladium esculenta, aid is not 
hardy though it does well planted out in the summer. 
Very good tubers of this variety were sent a few 
years ago to the Royal Horticultural Society to show 
its value as a vegetable. 



33 



COUVE TRONCHUDA 



CouvE Tronchuda, or Seakale Cabbage (Brasstca 
oleracea costata), is by no means a popular vegetable or one 
much known or grown, and on this account it is given 
a place as it is useful for autumn supplies. It may 

be described as 
useful, as the 
heads make an 
excellent dish in 
the autumn, and 
it grows well in 
a good soil. It 
is an excellent 
cabbage if not 
grown in a cold 
or exposed situa- 
tion, and one that 
gives a good re- 
turn. The large 
full grown leaves are used in the same way as Seakale •, 
that is, the fleshy rind ribs of the plants may be cooked 
thus, and they make a really good vegetable if well 
cooked. 

The culture is the same as for the ordinary Brassica ; 
that is, seed is sown in the early spring and the seedlings 
transplanted when large enough, 2 feet apart each 
way. Grown in an open position they do well. 




BRAGANZA, PORTUGAL OR SEA-KALE CABBAGE 

{One-twelfth natural size) 



34 



DANDELION 

Dandelion {Taraxacum officinale) is not often used as a 
vegetable in this country, but is well worth cultivat- 
ing for that purpose. For salad purposes it is equally 
valuable, but my note concerns its uses in vegetable 
form, and grown for this purpose for use from March 




THICK-LEAVED, OR CABBAGING, DANDELION 
{One-fi/th natural size) 

till June it is not at all bad. If the roots are lifted 
in November and stored in soil or sand they may be 
placed in a mushroom house or any dark place and 
the new growths are by many persons much liked as 
a vegetable ; but as grown thus much heat must not 
be employed, as the warmth causes a thickened leaf 
stalk, and it is the green leaf that is best for boiling. 
The common Dandelion is not recommended ; the large 
leaved French variety is far superior and this is very 

35 



36 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

easily grown. There is also a very good variety, the 
improved broad-leaved ; this is even better than the 
French, as it does not run to seed so quickly, but as the 
plant for use as a vegetable is not needed for summer 
suppHes its seeding is not important. The plants are 
best raised from seed sown in April in rows i8 inches 
apart, 9 inches between the plants in the row. It likes a 
moist soil and should be sown very thinly and thinned 
early. The plants left in their growing quarters will last 
for years, but much finer leafage is secured by sowing 
annually, not allowing the old plants to seed. 

To Cook Dandelion Leaves 

An excellent dish may be made by taking equal 
quantities of young Dandelion leaves and Sorrel leaves, 
cutting them into slices, placing the Dandelion leaves in 
a stewpan with a minimum of boiling water and stewing 
them till tender, then adding the Sorrel leaves and boiling 
till the whole of the water is absorbed or evaporated, 
the vegetables being quite soft, stirring in some butter, 
pepper and salt, mixing all well together, and serving it 
either alone or with poached eggs. 

Or the Dandelion leaves, having been boiled for about 
half an hour, may be lifted out in a strainer, plunged into 
cold water, gently pressed till fairly dry, and then 
chopped fine. The chopped leaves should next be placed 
in a pan containing an ounce of butter, a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, a tablespoonful of stock, and a little pepper and 
salt, well blended together. This mixture should be 
heated and stirred for about ten minutes, when a table- 
spoonful of cream or rich sauce should be added and the 
whole served. 



EGG PLANT 

The Aubergine or Egg Plant {^Solanum melongena) is 
an annual half hardy plant, a native of South America 
and the tropical parts of Asia and Africa. It is widely 
distributed, and it has been known in this country for 
over three hundred years ; but we have not made 
much headway as regards its culture or its cooking. 
There are a goodly number of varieties, but very few 
are grown in this country. The Messrs Vilmorin, Paris, 
catalogue nearly a dozen. All are not egg shaped, some 
more resemble a Cucumber or miniature long Marrow. 
Others are round and really very handsome when grown 
as decorative plants ; and their varied colours, white, 
cream, and purple, and other shades, are very telling 
when grown in pots. The American kinds are larger 
than others. One, the New York Giant or Purple, is a 
very fine fruit, round and purplish in colour. This 
variety grows freely, and the quality is very fine. This 
is a standard dish in the country named, and given frame 
culture is one of the largest. It is well worth growing 
in this country. The Chinese Brinjal, or as it is better 
known the Aubergine blanche longue de la Chine of 
the French, is a very distinct fruit, a long white, and of 
more substance than some others. There is the ronde 
de Chine or Noire de Pekin, a nice-shaped fruit of a dark 
violet colour. This sets readily, and is a very good 
fruiter. The de Madras also is a variety well worth 
attention. This is an oblong fruit, violet coloured and 
of excellent table quality. The long Violet and the 
Black Pekin, a very dark purple fruit, are well-known 

37 



38 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



kinds. The Black variety is one of the darkest colours 
grown, but the colour does not affect the quality. The 
small Violette naine is a pretty fruit, excellent for pot 
culture, and there are several white or cream coloured 
varieties. These vary in shape, and I have seen a 

reddish fruit but 
not grown it. 
They are cer- 
tainly a most in- 
teresting class of 
plants, and well 
deserving of at- 
tention. At one 
time they were 
only considered 
novelties, but 
there is no doubt 
whatever but that 
they are valuable 
for food, being a 
wholesome and 
delicious vege- 
table, and cer- 
t ai nl y worth 
extended cultiva- 
tion. I have seen 
them grown for 
decorative purposes in anything but a happy condition. 
The plants, once they receive a check, are very sub- 
ject to red spiders. This points to the need of 
ample moisture in the house, as the pest will not 
thrive under this condition. Another evil is allowing 
the plants to be starved or pot bound. The best 
results are secured from plants grown in frames in 
rich soil planted out. In the Paris market gardens a 
great deal of attention is given to these plants; and 




LONG PURPLE EGG PLANT 
(One-Jl/tk natural size) 



EGG PLANT 39 

so many fruits are secured from plants grown in a 
small space, that they are really profitable. As a vege- 
table those who have lived in foreign parts, are most 
partial to them, and they make a nice break in the 
ordinary supply of green foods; and during the summer 
months many persons who have spare frames or pots 
could grow the Aubergine to advantage, and once grown 
they would, I feel sure, become favourites and always 
find a place. 

To get strong plants early it is well to sow seed in 
January or February in a warm house, giving the seeds 
bottom heat to cause rapid germination. In all cases at 
this time of year the plants should have a temperature 
of 6^ to 70 degrees, and if bottom heat is not given there 
must be careful watering till the seedlings are through 
the soil. As soon as the plants have made two leaves 
they should be transferred to small pots, one in each, 
and grown near the light. In a short time, say three 
weeks or so, the plants will be ready for another shift, 
and may then be placed in 6-inch pots and grown on as 
before, finally potting into 8 or 9-inch pots. These latter 
are for fruiting in. The soil should be fairly rich ; that 
is, a good loam, to which should be added fertilisers or 
well-decayed manure, and this applies more to the later 
pottings than to the early. It is also important to keep 
the plants moving ; that is, at no time during their early 
stages of growth should they be allowed to get pot 
bound as this would cause a few stray fruits to set, and 
loss of crop. During the time the plants are maturing 
their fruits there should be liberal supplies of liquid 
manure, but this should be discontinued as soon as the 
fruits have attained their full size, or show signs of 
colouring. The plants should always be grown on a 
single leg or stem at the start, and when strong enough 
they should have the points taken out to cause a branched 



40 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

growth and show fruit. Four to six fruits are ample. 
After these are secured, later fruits and lateral growth 
should be stopped, the plants syringed overhead twice 
daily and kept free of insect pests. 

The above-described culture is for pot plants, but I 
think the best results are obtained from plants planted out 
in beds, not unlike Capsicums, or treated like Vegetable 
Marrows given frame culture. By planting out, a greater 
number of fruits are secured from the plants, as they 
begin to fruit in June and continue bearing till late in 
the summer. Some growers sow their seed in the hot 
bed and thin out others in pots, and plant out when the 
bed is at the right temperature. In all cases there must 
be a warm bed to get the best results ; not too hot, but 
made so that the fermenting materials retain the heat as 
long as possible. In this country I have seen excellent 
results by growing in frames. A bed is prepared in March 
and on this is placed a frame, with from 4 to 6 inches 
of good soil. When this latter is warmed through, the 
seedlings should be planted, having previously been raised 
in small pots. Each plant is made firm and may be 
allowed 2 feet space and the sashes kept closed for a few 
days, shading the plants, giving ventilation carefully as 
the plants increase in growth, damping overhead freely 
late in the afternoon, and stopping shoots and thinning the 
plants later on. At midsummer the sashes may be re- 
moved entirely, but there must be no lack of water or 
food, as red spider generally attacks the plants if at all 
dry, and if this is allowed to spread the fruits fail to set 
or swell. Scale also attacks the plants if they are in any 
way neglected during growth. In cold or exposed places 
I would advise sowing early and giving frame culture 
from start to finish. On the other hand, In the southern 
part of the country the plants will fruit in the open 
ground if planted out in rich soil. 



EGG PLANT 41 

To Cook Aubergines or Egg Plants 

According to Wyvern, the ordinary method of pre- 
paring this vegetable (brinjal) in India is as follows : — 
The pods are cut in halves lengthways, the fleshy part 
scooped out, put on a plate, and mashed up with butter, 
seasoned with salt and pepper and minced hard-boiled 
egg added ; the hollowed half pods are then filled with 
this mixture, laid out upon a baking sheet, brushed over 
with melted butter, and baked in a moderate oven with 
heat above and below them; then lifted with a slice, laid 
in a legumiere and served — the^^rr^ being altered at dis- 
cretion, grated cheese used for the surface, etc. 

Another excellent recipe of Wyvern's is for 

Aubergines Sautees 

For this little brinjals as used for curry, whole, are 
the best — gathered before the seeds have developed. 
Blanch for five minutes and then simmer gently in milk 
and water till tender ; lift, drain, lay them in a buttered 
sautoir, and turn them about over low fire like haricots 
verts sautes to expel moisture, set them in a hot 
legumiere^ sprinkle with parsley and melted butter, and 
serve. For this the butters may be varied — mattre d^hotel 
ravigotey etc. 

The following recipe is borrowed from The Queen : — 

Aubergines a la Turque 

Cut the ends from the egg plant, and remove the 
centre of the fruit with a teaspoon, replacing this with 
a mixture of equal parts of cold cooked rice and minced 
cooked meat, seasoning with blanched and finely minced 
onion, freshly ground black pepper, and salt; now fry 
the fruit with a bouquet (thyme, parsley, bay leaf, etc.) 
in oil, butter, or clarified dripping, for two or three 



42 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

minutes, then drain it, lay in a stewpan with sufficient 
thin tomato sauce to cover it and the bunch of herbs, 
and stew gently till tender ; then remove the herbs and 
dish the vegetable on a hot dish with the tomato sauce 
over and round it. 



EVENING PRIMROSE 



The Evening Primrose {CEnothera biennis^ is a plant 
more commonly considered as a flowering plant than 
as a vegetable, and is but rarely grown for eating ; 
such indeed I have 



as 



never seen it grown m 
this country. On the 
continent, especially in 
Germany, it is cultivated 
for its roots, which are 
cooked in a variety of 
ways. The roots are 
fleshy, and are used much 
in the same way as Sal- 
sify; and I have heard that 
they are valuable on ac- 
count of their easy diges- 
tibility, and that they are 
nourishing also. They 
are mostly boiled, and 
when cold may be mixed 
with salad like Celeriac 
or Beetroot. Doubtless 
there are many parts that 
are edible among the large 
flowering plants. Take the Helianthus, for instance. 
The seeds have been used for food ; they also yield oil 
that promises to be valuable as an article of commerce, 
and the large leafy kinds have been used for cattle. 
The Evening Primrose, if grown for its roots. 




EVENING PRIMROSE 
iPne-fi/th natural size) 



44 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

may be sown in the spring on land well prepared, 
and the seedlings when large enough transplanted 
in rows 2 feet apart, and kept free of weeds, and not 
allowed to suffer in their early stages of growth for 
lack of moisture. The plants, I am told by a grower on 
the continent, should not be taken up but lifted as re- 
quired for use in the autumn, covering over with litter 
in severe weather ; if stored in a warm store the roots are 
much inferior in flavour. They remain good from 
October till March, and make a distinct vegetable at the 
season named, and they are liked in soups and stews or 
made dishes. They are certainly worth a trial, as they 
are easily grown in this country. 

To Cook Evening Primrose Roots 

These roots may be cooked in any of the ways advised 
for Chervil. Also see the various recipes for cooking 
Salsify in '*The Book of Asparagus." 



FENNEL 



Fennel {Foeniculum finochio) is a perennial plant, a 
native of Southern Europe, not much grown in this 
country, but a favourite in Italy. The above variety 
must not be confounded with the Aromatic Fennel, a 
plant largely used 
for fish sauces and 
garnishing and for 
flavouring, the seeds 
being used largely 
for the last named 
purpose. The 
Finochio variety is 
distinct from the 
common variety, its 
leaf stalks are 
thicker and round, 
and it is used both 
in a raw state some- 
what like blanched 
celery or boiled 
with meat and also is 
eaten with macaroni. 
It requires a deep soil and is best sown in drills 1 8 
inches apart and the seedlings thinned to half that 
distance in the row. It likes a fairly rich moist soil, as 
in dry or poor soil the growths are firmer and less 
palatable. The leaf stalks are moulded up a month 
before using. This blanches the lower part and makes a 
most serviceable and distinct vegetable. It grows very 

45 




FINOCHIO, OR FLORENCE FENNEL 
(One-fifth natural size) 



46 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

quickly and there may be three or four sowings from 
April to July or August, and by these means a succes- 
sion of plants will be secured. The plants will be 
fit for use in three months from time of sowing the 
seed if the land is well done and ample moisture given 
in dry weather. There may be supplies well into 
December if autumn plants are desired, as by sowing 
in August, the plants may be protected in November if 
the weather is severe by covering with bracken or by 
lifting and placing in a cool root store. 

To Cook Fennel 

Fennel is now chiefly used for garnishing mackerel 
and certain other fish, or is minced and added to melted 
butter as a sauce for these fish. Its dried seeds are also 
used in the preparation of a liqueur known as fenouiUette. 
The leaf-stalks — especially of the Finochio variety — may 
be used either raw, after the manner of Celery, or as 
a cooked vegetable, being placed in boiling water and 
boiled for about half an hour, or until tender. 



GOOD KING HENRY 

Good King Henry {Chempodium bonus Henricus) is 
better known as Mercury, and is probably one of 
the easiest grown vegetables we have, but not well 
known or much grown, though in a few counties 
on the eastern coast it is a great favourite ; indeed, 
in Lincolnshire there are few gardens of any size but 
grow a bed of King Henry, and I have heard it called 
Lincolnshire Asparagus. The plant is perennial, a native 
of Britain, and is found in many parts of Europe, and is a 
very wholesome vegetable, and later on when the top 
growth of the plants has become large the young 
leaves if gathered make a very good dish and is often 
used in place of Spinach. The plant well repays good 
cultivation, though I have seen it growing in the same 
spot for years, and of course grown thus the leafage is 
small. The plant grown in good soil produces shoots ; 
these, cut in a young state and tied up in bunches, some- 
what resemble Asparagus. If at all old, the skin toughens 
quickly and it is then necessary to remove the skin before 
cooking. It is in season from April till June, and should 
be grown in a warm position, doing best in well drained 
soil. Seeds may be sown in a bed in spring and the seed- 
lings planted out in rows 2 feet apart and i8 inches 
between the plants, the quarter having been deeply dug 
and manured the previous winter. I have also divided 
plants from old beds or roots, selecting the best roots, 
and these given new soil soon make headway and give a 
large quantity of shoots. It should be more grown for 



48 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

its value as a spring vegetable, as it comes in at a time 
of year when there is a scarcity. 

To Cook Good King Henry 

The leaves should be well washed, placed in a stew- 
pan with a minimum of water, and boiled for a quarter 
of an hour. A little salt should then be added, and the 
boiling continued for another five minutes. It should 
then be carefully drained and chopped fine. A little 
butter, a little less flour, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch 
of salt should then be placed in a stewpan and heated 
for a few minutes. Add the chopped vegetables and 
boil for five minutes longer. The young shoots of the 
Good King Henry may be cut from April to June, tied 
in bunches, and boiled like asparagus, which they some- 
what resemble in taste. 



HOP 

The ordinary Hop plant {Humulas lupulus) is not much 
used as a vegetable, but it is not an inferior dish if used 
in a young state. The shoots when from 4 to 5 inches 
long are the parts used, and these are boiled and eaten 
like Asparagus. As an article of commerce the dried 
Hop is most valuable, and its use in brewing is well 
known. It is a perennial plant and indigenous to this 
country, and not only valuable in its dried state but 
often used in gardens as a screen to hide buildings or 
unsightly objects. I need not go into its cultivation as 
it is grown on a large scale in the south and western 
counties of England. 

To Boil Hops 

The tender young shoots are to be tied into bundles, 
placed into boiling salted water and gently boiled for 
about twenty minutes. They may be served after the 
manner of Asparagus into heurre fondu or other simple 
sauce. The cold boiled Hops may be used as a salad. 



To Fry Hops 

Prepare as above, and boil for twelve minutes. Drain, 
and allow to cool. Then flour them, dip in egg and 
bread crumb, and fry in boiling oil. Serve with salt. 
n 49 



HORSE RADISH 

Horse Radish (Cochlearia armoracia). A hardy perennial 
naturalised in this country, largely used more as an 
addition or flavouring for cooked meat than in any 
other form j and though exception may be taken to 
it as a vegetable, it is largely used as an article of 
food, both raw and in a prepared condition. It is of 
much value owing to its good keeping properties, as 
roots lifted and stored in sand will keep a long time. 
Another point not to be overlooked is that it is anti- 
scorbutic and much valued by mariners, as it keeps good 
a long time when on long voyages, and it is found to be 
of great value. As regards its growth, it will grow 
when other things fail, indeed in old gardens it is most 
difficult to get rid of it if allowed to remain a number of 
years in one place. On the other hand, the roots grown 
thus, as regards quality cannot compare with those given 
what may be termed proper culture. Properly grown, the 
roots are long, thick, straight, and of much better flavour, 
being less stringy and more tender. The plant is much 
better when grown for a short time in one place, and to 
do it justice it likes ample depth and food also. It is 
often left to chance, to grow anyhow in one corner of the 
garden and dug up as required ; it is far better to plant a 
small quarter yearly, destroying the oldest and laying in 
for use the best roots. There are great quantities of these 
roots imported from abroad. This is not at all necessary, 
as I have seen as good results in the Thames Valley as 
the best imported roots from Holland, from whence the 
London markets receive large consignmen-ts. The plant 
so 



I 



HORSE RADISH 



51 



does best in a rather moist soil, deep and not too 
heavy. 

The culture for home supplies requires but small space, 
and early in the spring is best to make new beds. The 
land should be trenched, liberal 
layers of manure being placed 
under the second spit ; cow 
manure is excellent for light 
land. The work of trenching 
or manuring is best done some 
time in advance of planting. One 
year's growth will produce good 
roots, but by extending the time, 
allowing another season, much 
finer roots are obtained, but more 
astringent. The best time for 
planting is early in the spring, 
and if the land has been pre- 
pared some time, it is best to 
use a dibble, making the holes 
much deeper than the set. In 
selecting the latter, care should 
be taken to have clean growths 
free of eyes or offsets, as these 
cause a forked growth and are not liked. I have 
also seen good crops from the crown growth : that is, 
the tops are cut with a bit of root attached a few inches 
long, all side shoots carefully removed, and they certainly 
made a good plant grown thus. When root cuttings are 
used, these should be clean, straight pieces, 9 to 12 
inches long, and these may be prepared in the autumn 
and tied in small bundles, and laid in sand till planting 
time. I find this preferable to lifting roots direct out of 
the soil and planting. A bed will last for years, but 
much better results will follow annual planting if only 
on a small scale, and in no case should a bed be left 




HORSE RADISH 



{One-fifth natural size) 



52 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

longer than three years, as the root growth after that 
time does not thicken, but divides and gets harder and 
less valuable. 

To Make Horse Radish Sauce 

Simmer a small teacupful of finely rasped Horse Radish 
in half a pint of broth. Then thicken, by adding the 
yolks of two eggs beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar. Add a little pepper and salt and 
serve. To make cold Horse Radish sauce, add to a small 
teacupful of gratings, half a pint of mayonnaise. Serve 
as cold as possible. 



LENTILS 

The Lentil {Ervum lens) is an annual plant, a native 
of southern Europe, largely cultivated in the warmer 
countries and certainly a most valuable vegetable in a 
dried state, being exceedingly nutritious and one that 
can be eaten by invalids. It is not much cultivated in 
this country, at least in private gardens, and though by 
many persons the seeds are considered indigestible, a 
great deal depends upon the cooking ; indeed this plant 
supplies the valuable Revalenta arabica of commerce, a 
food of great value. The plant is also much grown 
near Paris and the large towns of France, and in that 
country is largely used as food. The outer skin is very 
hard, and this got rid of, there is no question of its value 
as food, as then it is nutritious and may be used for 
soups and is cooked in various ways. In habit it some- 
what resembles the Pea, to which it is closely allied, 
and has the same nourishing properties when the seeds 
are ripe and fit for use. I have no knowledge of this 
plant being grown for use when in the green state. 
I have seen it used in a partially ripe state for soups, 
I mean before the pod hardened, but I should prefer 
Marrow Peas to Lentils, and doubtless its value is in 
its dried state and its long keeping properties. I have 
kept seed for three years after gathering. By hanging 
up the haulm in a cool, dry shed, the seeds keep 
well in the husk or pod. The pod is much shorter 
than the ordinary Pea, having a blunt end. The plant 
thrives best in a light, warm, or well drained soil, not too 
rich, as in the latter it makes a straggling growth and 

53 



54 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



fails to pod freely. There can be no doubt but that the 
best produce is secured from plants given field culture, as 
here in an open position the growth is firmer and 

a better bloom 
secured. In a close 
garden with a rich 
root run I do not 
advise their culture, 
though I have seen 
good results on 
sloping banks, the 
seeds being sown 
so that the plants 
had free exposure. 
As regards the cul- 
ture for seeds in a 
dried state on a 
very small scale, 
seed is best sown 
in the spring, March 
or April is the most 
suitable month, and 
the seed is best 
sown in drills 2 feet 
apart and not sown 
thickly. The stalks 
will change colour 
as the seeds or pods reach maturity ; the latter change 
to a dark colour and may then be pulled up and dried in 
the sun for a few days, turning over daily to get rid of 
any moisture, taking care to give the haulm a dry, cool 
place free of drip when storing. The Lentils may be 
thrashed out later when required for use. 

To Cook Lentils 
Having been soaked in cold water for eight or ten 
hours, Lentils are cooked by placing in cold water and 




LARGE YELLOW LENTIL 

{One-tenth statural size ; detached dranch, 
natural size) 



LENTILS 55 

boiling for two or three hours till tender. For the two 
following recipes, readers are indebted to that excellent 
book, ** Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen." 

Lentils *'alla Corona" 
After boiling one pint of Lentils with a bouquet of 
sweet herbs, strain them. Meanwhile, mince some ham 
with a very little onion and put it to brown with some 
butter ; then add one or two ladlefuls of good stock, 
boil, and strain. Pour this sauce over the Lentils with a 
good piece of butter, salt and pepper to taste, heat them, 
and garnish boiled beef or pork with them. 

Lentils "in Istufato" 
Put an earthen pot on the fire, and just before the 
water boils throw in one pint of Lentils. As it boils 
skim off the Lentils which float to the surface, and con- 
tinue to do this until all are taken out ; the few which 
remain at the bottom of the pot must be strained through 
a sieve. Chop up two anchovies, place them in a sauce- 
pan with some pure oil and butter and a little minced 
shallot, brown them well, put in the Lentils, and then add 
some good stock or soup. When cooked, serve up hot. 

To Stew Lentils 
Wash quarter of a pound of Lentils well in several 
waters, then put them into a basin with a pint of fresh 
cold water. Cover the basin with a plate or piece of 
paper and stand overnight. Next day put them into a 
saucepan with the water in which they were soaked and 
one onion very finely chopped. Cook slowly from one 
to one and a half hours or until the Lentils are quite soft, 
stirring frequently with a spoon. When ready, take the 
lid off the pan and boil for a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until the mixture is quite thick. Add one ounce 
of butter, and season to taste with pepper and salt. 
Serve very hot. (Miss Florence Jack's recipe.) 



MAIZE 

Maize — or Indian Corn {Zea mays) — is a favourite 
vegetable in America, and can be cultivated in this 
country with great success if the seeds are sown under 
glass and planted out in rich soil. It is cultivated in all 
parts of the world, but less in Europe than in others ; 
doubtless in this country our short summers are not 
favourable, but when it is considered what a number of 
vegetables we raise under glass, there is no difficulty in 
growing very fine cobs of this useful cereal. Some of 
the dwarfer varieties are more suitable in this country 
than the very large ones, which need a much longer 
summer season to mature the growth. By this I do not 
mean that the corn must be ripe, as in this state it is not 
used as a vegetable, but the grains in the stalk must be 
fully developed, though used in a green state. Of late 
years our home seedsmen have turned their attention to 
the Maize, offering some of the best or most suitable 
kinds for culture in this country, and I will note a few of 
them. In addition there is the Japanese striped variety, 
valuable as a decorative plant, and much used on the 
continent, indeed there are few plants that are more 
beautiful. A few seasons ago I had twelve distinct 
varieties of the vegetable forms sent me from the States 
and they were very good indeed, not one failed to make 
cobs and some grew very quickly, but I failed to ripen 
seed ; our summers do not permit this. The earliest 
variety I have grown is the Early Yellow or .Six Weeks, 
grown in the States under the name of Quarantain ; this 
is a :^ feet variety and ripens well in this country. 
56 



MAIZE 



SI 



Another very fine early corn is one that the Messrs 
Sutton of Reading have imported into this country. This 
is hardier and known as Sutton's Early Dwarf; it 
is a very full 
flavoured corn 
and makes a 
delicious vege- 
table. The 
White Pyrenean 
is also early and 
a 3 feet variety, 
having whitish 
brown seeds, and 
is a very com- 
pact grower. I 
omitted to state 
that I have with- 
out difficulty 
ripened seeds of 
the Sutton Early 
Dwarf. This is 
a great gain, as 
it shows its early 
maturity and its 
great value for 
private gardens 
in this country. 
Other early kinds 
are Adam's Early, 
a 3 feet, thick, 

short cob, and of good quality. Crosby's Early Sugar, 
Early Dwarf Sugar, and Early Tom Thumb are good ; the 
latter is a dwarf splendid variety. There are many others 
well worth growing, such as Triumphant, Minnesota, 
Metropolitan, and More's Concord and Country Gentle- 
man ; these latter are favourites in the United States. 




58 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

All are of very simple culture, but they need a rich soil, 
sun, and abundance of moisture when in active growth. 
Seeds sown in March or April will be ready to plant 
out the end of May. It is best to sow three seeds or 
more in small pots and thin to the strongest. Sown in 
frames under glass they soon germinate and are ready 
to plant out when large enough. If desired, three plants 
may be raised in larger pots and planted in clumps of 
three, a yard apart. I prefer single plants and 2 feet 
apart all ways. Seed may also be sown in prepared 
trenches in the open ground early in May and they will 
do well in a favourable season. The plants should have 
a sunny position and get ample supplies of water. 

To Cook Maize 

Strip off the husk and stalk, and put the Maize into 
boiling water without salt. Boil for ten minutes or a 
little more, and serve with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Or the Maize may be separated from the cob, boiled 
and drained, and then tossed in melted butter with a 
little salt and pepper. Chopped parsley or grated 
cheese may be added just before serving. 



MOUNTAIN SPINACH 

Brach atriplex hortensis, commonly called Mountain 
Spinach, a hardy annual, a native of Tartary. The leaves 
are used like Spinach, but it is not equal in flavour and 
soon runs to seed, so that frequent sowings are necessary. 
This plant will grow in any soil, but the leaves are much 
better, being more succulent, when grown in a good soil. 
There are four varieties in cultivation, the white, the 
green, and a pale and a dark red. The varieties do not differ 
much in quality, but I think the green varieties the best 
for garden uses. Seed sown in February will give leaves 
in May, or monthly sowings may be made of a succession 
if desired. The seed should be sown in drills 2 feet 
apart and thinned to 18 inches in the row. It is best 
kept free from seeding by picking off the flower spikes. 

To Stew Spinach 

Spinach having been washed in cold water and dried by 
swinging the leaves round in the air, may be stewed in 
the following way : — 

Place it in a pan of boiling water, whence remove it 
at the end of four minutes. Throw the Spinach next 
into cold water and well dry it in the colander. Chop 
it up moderately finely, and place in a stewpan with salt, 
pepper, and butter (half an ounce to the pound). Place 
over the fire and stir till the butter is melted. Add a 
little stock (a teacupful to the pound), and allow to 
simmer for ten minutes. Add a little lemon juice and 

59 



6o THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

serve. Spinach cooked in this way may be spread on 
toast and surmounted by poached eggs. 

Spinach may be served whole by placing it, without 
water, in a vessel surrounded by boiling water for about 
twenty minutes. Dry with a warm cloth and serve. 



NASTURTIUM 

Nasturtium {Tropoeolum, majus, mifius and tuberosum). 
There are two varieties of the ordinary Nasturtium used as 
vegetables, the large form of Majus and the smaller kind 
Minus : the one is more common than the other, indeed 
the larger variety may be seen in most gardens being 
grown for ornament or for use in salads and pickles. Both 
kinds, Majus and Minus, are natives of Peru, and are 
perennial, but here they are treated as annuals, and some 
of the more recently introduced varieties, which are 
doubtless selections from the older forms, are really 
very beautiful garden plants. My note more concerns 
their value as vegetables than as salad plants. For 
the latter purpose, leaves and flowers are used, but 
it is the fruits which are doubtless more useful, and 
these are largely used when pickled in vinegar and by 
many persons are preferred to Capers, which they very 
much resemble. In their native regions, where the 
plants grow very quickly, the green portion of the plants 
is at times used as a vegetable and the points of the 
shoots eaten for salads. Their culture is most simple, 
but the plant does best in a light soil with a warm 
aspect, and though they may be grown in almost any 
corner of the garden, they, well repay good culture if 
grown for their fruit. Seed is best sown in the spring, 
and if grown to stakes like Peas they bear heavy crops 
and flower and continue to form fruits till cut down by 
frost. Grown in rows, at least 4 feet should be allowed 
between the rows for the first named Majus, as it obtains 

a height of 8 feet or more, and the plants delight in 

61 



62 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



abundant supplies of water in dry weather. The 
tuberous variety is very distinct and but little grown in this 
country. The edible portion is the tuber that forms 
at the root, not the fruit, as in the first named varieties. 
I have seen this variety grown in a few gardens, but it has 
a very peculiar flavour when cooked ; indeed some may 

and do like them who have 
travelled abroad, but they 
certainly will never become 
common in our gardens, as 
the weight of crop does not 
make them profitable. This 
plant is a perennial and a 
native of Peru and the tubers 
produced are showy, being 
yellow and red and not un- 
like a Potato, but usually 
smaller at one end. In South 
America this is a favourite 
dish, but I think much care 
must be expended upon their 
cooking, and in the countries 
referred to they are frozen 
after being cooked and are 
then a favourite dish, indeed 
they are a standing dish in 
hot weather and much sought 
after as a light refreshment. The culture is simple. 
The plant is a climber and requires support. It is 
best grown from eyes lik% the Potato, as one good- 
sized tuber will make several sets. In dry soils it may 
be allowed to grow on the soil, but in others, stakes 
should be given. It requires a fairly light, rich soil, and 
it is best planted in the spring, the sets being placed 4 
feet apart, and it is fit for use in October, as at that time 
the leaves will begin to turn colour. I have seen this 




TUBEROUS-ROOTED NASTURTIUM 
( Tubers, half natural size) 



NASTURTIUM 6;^ 

variety grown well in pots and frames, in cold wet situa- 
tion, and grown thus it is an easy matter to feed. The 
tubers keep for some time when quite ripe if lifted and 
given cool storage in sand or fibre, and may be had in 
season from October till March, and for seed purposes it 
is well to keep them on shelves, but frost proof. 

To Pickle Nasturtium Seeds 

Gather the seeds whilst green, wash them, dry them, 
and put them in bottles. Boil together a pint of vinegar, 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and 
two chillies. When cold, pour it over the seeds, and 
cork and seal. This is fit for use in six weeks. 



NETTLE 



The common Nettle is not often used as a vegetable 
in this country, but it is not at all bad if gathered 
in a young state — I mean before the growths get 

hardened and become 
harsh and flavourless. The 
plant is more used in 
country places than in 
towns ; indeed I fear many 
town-dwellers would hesi- 
tate to collect or cook the 
plant, but it would not be 
refused as a vegetable by 
many who did not know 
what it was. It is also 
largely employed in mak- 
ing a wholesome drink, 
known as nettle tea or 
beer. As regards its cul- 
ture, unfortunately it is 
too common and difficult to get rid of when thor- 
oughly established, and therefore cultivation is out of 
the question. 

To Cook Nettles 

The young tender shoots should be well washed, 

dried, and tied in neat bundles. They should then be 

steamed till tender — generally for about twenty minutes 

— and then served with heurre jondu or other simple sauce. 

64 




CHINA-GRASS SILVERY NETTLE 



NEW ZEALAND SPINACH 

New Zealand Spinach (Tetragona expansa) is quite dis- 
tinct from the ordinary Spinach, but so valuable a summer 
vegetable that I have included it in this book. I noted 




NEW ZEALAND SPINACH 

{One-twel/th natural size ; detached branch, one-fourth 
natural size') 

its value in vol. vii. to extend the season when other 
kinds fail, but I did not go into cultural details, and these 
I will make as brief as possible. This, as its name im- 
plies, is a native of New Zealand and was brought into 
cultivation by Sir I. Banks, and is valuable in hot summer 

E ^5 



66 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

or in dry hot soils where the ordinary plants fail. It is 
useful as a vegetable in a boiled state and valuable for 
colouring purposes. It likes a light, rich soil, and ample 
space, 3 feet between the plants. We sow under glass in 
small pots and plant out early in June. It may also be 
sown in the open the middle of May, but sown under 
glass the plant gives earlier produce and at a time it is 
more valuable. It is best grown on the flat on a south 
border, and grown thus will give a supply till cut down 
by frost. 



SOME ONIONS 

The Potato Onion is not largely cultivated in some 

parts of the kingdom ; in others it is a great favourite, 

especially in small gardens, and more so in the southern 

part of the kingdom. It is called the Underground 

Onion also, and as regards culture it somewhat resembles 

the Shallot, but is distinct. All the three varieties here 

described are different from the ordinary kinds, and they 

are useful as they rarely fail. The small bulbs of the 

Potato variety are planted singly, and in warm situations, 

such as Devon or Cornwall, it is usually the rule to 

plant on the shortest day and take up the crop on the 

longest ; but this rule does not hold good in heavy land 

or cold situations, as March would be early enough to 

plant and August to lift. The bulbs are planted in 

well-manured land, in rows i8 inches apart and half 

that distance between the plants ; the soil is made fairly 

firm previous to planting, and the bulbs are pressed 

down in the soil and made firm. The plant or old 

bulb forms clusters of young bulbs round the old one, 

and when extra fine roots are desired, it is a good plan 

to place spent manure between the rows or feed with 

liquid manure or a quick acting fertiliser. By mulching 

or earthing up when the growths are a good size, the 

plant is induced to form better clusters, and at that time 

there should be no lack of moisture till the young bulbs 

are full sized, and only withheld as they begin to ripen. 

When stored they will remain sound a long time if 

placed in a cool airy store. This variety is not raised 

from seed, and it is more valuable for early supplies 

than later, as the other varieties are then more plentiful. 

67 



68 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

The Egyptian or Tree Onion, often called the Garden 
Rocambole, throws up stems from the bulb which is 
planted, and on this is produced a number of small bulbs 
at the top of the main stem ; these being in a cluster, 
they are much liked for pickling. The plant often 
produces nearly a dozen small onions at the top of the 
stems when well grown. These when ripe keep for 
months if suspended from a roof in a cool place. The 
cultivation is simple. The plants may be propagated from 
the bulbs formed in the soil or from those on the stem 
placed in shallow drills early in the spring, as advised 
for the Potato Onion, but less room will suffice for the 
bulbs planted from the stem, 6 inches apart being 
sufficient. The growths need supports as the Onions 
, form, and the plant matures its growth much better 
when supported. They like a rich, light soil, and at the 
planting it is necessary to make them firm in the soil as 
often birds pull up the loose bulbs. 

The Welsh Onion is the Allium pistulosiim, a 
herbaceous perennial, a native of Siberia, and very hardy. 
There are two distinct varieties, the red and white, and 
it differs from the common Onion as it never bulbs ; the 
roots are long and tapering, with strong fibres, and its 
stems and leaves are hollow. Its value in the garden 
is mostly to furnish young growths for salads in the 
spring, and for stews and soups in a green state. Used in 
this way it is liked for its mild flavour, and as it starts 
into growth much earlier than our garden varieties, being 
so much hardier, it is useful. Sown in July or August 
it will give a spring supply ; sown broadcast a small bed 
will suffice. We grow it near the herbs ; it makes a good 
border plant. 

To Bake Onions 

Take any of the milder flavoured Onions of good size 
and, having removed the outer coats, boil them for about 



II 



SOME ONIONS 69 

forty-five minutes in water. Dry the Onions with a 
cloth, place them on a baking dish, surmount each with 
a small piece of butter, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake for an hour. Serve with heurre fondu, or plain 
butter. Season with salt and pepper. 

To Stew Onions 

Peel them and place them in stock (two quarts to six 
large Onions) seasoned with salt and pepper. Allow to 
simmer until they are quite tender. Reduce the stock, 
pour it over the Onions, and serve. 

Onions and Cheese 

Take some large Spanish Onions, skin them, and boil 
them until they are quite soft. Drain them in a 
colander, and then pass them through a sieve. Place 
the mashed Onions in a pan together with (to each Onion) 
an ounce of butter, an ounce of grated cheese, and a 
little pepper and salt. Allow the mixture to simmer 
for a few minutes, stirring the while, and then serve. 

Instead of placing the pulped Onions in a stewpan, 
they may be placed with the butter, pepper, and salt, 
and a little stock or milk (two tablespoonfuls to each 
Onion) in a pie-dish, the cheese being grated over the 
surface, and place in the oven till baked a nice brown. 

Stuffed Onions 

This is a recipe given by Mrs de Salis. 

Peel a couple of fair-sized Portugal Onions, parboil 
and drain them ; scoop out the centre, but keeping the 
Onions whole. Chop up the inside of the Onion with a 
little meat and a little fat bacon ; add some bread- 
crumbs, a sprig of parsley, and a small piece of lemon 
peel, chopped fine ; add pepper and salt to taste ; then 



70 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

beat it all up to a paste with a well-beaten egg and stuff 
the Onions with it, dredge them with flour, and fry them 
a nice brown ; then place them in a stewpan with a rich 
brown gravy to cover them, and let them stew gently 
for two hours. 



OXALIS CRENATA 

There are two distinct forms of Oxalis used for vege- 
table purposes ; the one named above is a tuberous 
rooted plant, a native of Peru, but introduced into this 
country in 1829. There are several varieties of the 
Oxalis grown in the country named under the name of 
Oka and some of these are not of much value here, re- 
quiring warmer soils than ours. Deppi, the other 
variety, I will describe later on ; it is not so much liked as 
Crenata. Many persons would not consider these 
vegetables equal to our own ; others, who have lived in 
the countries named, have a better opinion of their merits. 
They possess a peculiar acid taste, but the acidity is re- 
moved by care in cookings indeed many of our own 
vegetables which are strongly flavoured would be much 
better if the water in which they are boiled were 
changed when about three parts boiled. The tubers of 
the Oxalis are produced freely and are, when well grown, 
of the size of a large walnut, having a smooth skin and 
eyes in profusion, and a yellow skin in one case and a dull 
reddish one in the other. The tubers are long and pointed, 
somewhat like the Chinese Artichoke. The plant is 
extensively cultivated in the temperate parts of Bolivia 
and at times is exported to this country, but I fear the 
sale is not a large one, and our cooking deters many buy- 
ing them, as they need more than ordinary care. In the 
countries named they are cooked by steam, being placed on 
straw beds, which keeps the tubers from contact with the 
water. In Bolivia they are exposed to the sun for some 
days. By exposure, much of the acidity is removed, the 



72 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

tuber being much sweeter and more floury, like Potatoes. 
The tubers command a much better price than the Potato, 
and at La Pax are largely cultivated ; the soil being most 
fertile, they grow freely. At Lima the leaves and tops of 
the plant are used as a salad, and even in this country I 
have seen it used in the same way as Spinach or Sorrel ; 
indeed it somewhat resembles the last named plant, as it 
contains a considerable quantity of oxalic acid. The 
young stems of this plant, also others of the species. 




TUBERS OF OKA-PLANT, OXALIS CRENATA 
(^One-third natural size) 

have been used in tarts ; but I should add, used thus the 
tarts would need a lot of sweetening or flavouring. The 
culture is peculiar ; the aim is to get as many tubers as 
possible from the stems. The soil must be light, rich, 
and warm, and the tuber is propagated like the Potato, 
leaving an eye to each tuber. Cuttings also take root 
freely if placed in a warm bed in March or April and 
planted out in May and June in rows 3 feet apart and 2 
feet between the plants. The shoots are best earthed 
up as growth is made, and this is continued several times 
till the early autumn — September — when the tubers begin 
to form. They will be ready for use in November and 
may be kept good for months if taken up and stored in 
sand in a cool place, kept quite dry, as damp or frost soon 
decays the tubers. The plant does not thrive in wet or 



1 



OXALIS CRENATA ^'}, 

heavy soil ; and though the plant in good soil grows freely, 
I mean the top growth is ample, the tubers are not 
numerous unless the position is favourable and the 
summer most favourable. The best position should be 
given the plants, and at the start much time is gained by 
potting up the tuber and starting under glass. 

I have referred to the other variety, Deppi, a perennial 
plant and a native of Mexico introduced much at the 
same time as the first named variety, but this species is 
more used in a green state than the other, the young 
leaves being dressed like Sorrel. They are also used in 
soups and boiled as a vegetable with lamb or veal. The 
roots of this variety are fleshy, tapering, white, and clear, 
and the crowns or tops of the roots have a number of 
small scaly bulbs from which the plants are produced in 
abundance. This variety by many persons is preferred 
to the former as it is less acid, and when properly served 
makes a tender, succulent dish, easy to digest and a good 
dish for invalids. The roots when full grown are 3 to 
4 inches long and I to 2 inches in thickness, and the 
plant needs a rich root run, indeed any old spent manure 
or decayed vegetable mould will grow it well, but it needs 
much moisture and prefers a southern aspect. In a heavy 
clay soil it makes poor progress ; grown thus it runs along 
the surface and does not form its elongated or bulbous 
root. It comes freely from seed, but it is best grown 
from the ofF-sets or bulbs, these planted late in April. 
Twelve inches between the rows and half that distance in 
the row will be sufficient, as it will be seen. This variety 
is very different in growth from Crenata. The bulbs at 
planting should be made firm and only lightly covered 
with soil, and they do well if given a mulch of decayed 
manure in dry summer. The plants grow till cut down 
by frost, when they should be lifted, stored in sand, the 
crown growths removed and the bulbs stored till planting 
time. 



74 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

To Cook Oxalis Tubers 

The tubers should be exposed to the sun for a few 
days, and may then be boiled after the manner of Chinese 
Artichokes. If sun-dried for some weeks, the tubers 
may be eaten uncooked. The leaves of this plant may 
be cooked after the manner of Sorrel. 



HAMBURG PARSLEY 



The top growth of this plant is much like the ordinary 
garnishing Parsley, not much curled, but the edible part of 
the root is like a small or blunt Parsnip. The roots are 
very fleshy and of a peculiar flavour, and well worth 
culture in 
gardens where 
variety is liked, 
as this root is 
in season from 
November to 
April. As with 
most roots the 
land should not 
have been re- 
cently manured, 
as this causes 
a rank growth 
and splitting up 
of the roots 
into sections. 

What is required is land deeply dug which was 
manured for a previous crop. For roots of any 
that go down into the earth deep cultivation is a necessity. 
The best roots I ever grew of this plant was in land that 
had just been cleared of Celery, the last-named plant 
having been highly fed, and the trenching and moulding 
up just suited the Parsley roots. Seeds should be sown 
in March in drills 1 8 inches apart and the plants thinned 
to half that distance. The after-culture is simple, merely 

75 




EARLY HAMBURG PARSLEY 
{One-Ji/tk natural size) 



well 
kind 



^6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

keeping the crop free of weeds. The roots will be 
ready for use in November, as then they will be full 
grown, but they make a nice vegetable if used in 
September before they are at their full size. The bulk 
of the roots are best lifted and stored in November 
in a cool store in the same way as Beetroots, and will 
remain good till the spring. Mere size should not be 
aimed at, but fleshy medium-sized roots, and these will 
have superior flavour to the large coarser ones. 

To Cook Hamburg Parsley 
The roots should be cooked as Celeriac. 



PATIENCE 



Patience {Rumex patientia) is by no means a popular 
plant in this country, but one that will grow when 
Spinach fails. It will grow in almost any soil, but pre- 
fers one that is moist. A hardy perennial and a native 
of Italy, in that country 
it is still a favourite on 
account of its free growth 
and the enormous quan- 
tities of leafage it gives. 
When allowed to run wild 
or to ripen seed, there is a 
great difficulty in getting 
rid of this plant ; indeed 
I would not advise its cul- 
ture unless it is used in a 
young state and the plants 
thrown away when they 
begin to form seed ; cut 
over frequently, the plants 
throw out a large number 
of young leaves. It is 
easily raised from seed sown in the spring, and there 
should be ample space — 2 feet between the rows and 12 
inches between the plants. There should be no delay 
in cutting down the seed stems, as when these form the 
plant will not furnish leaves freely, the stems being 
robust and growing to several feet in height. The edible 
portion is the young leaves, and these are used like 
Spinach. Older writers advise a fourth part of Sorrel to 

77 




HERB PATJENCE, OR PATIENCE DOCK 
{One-thirtieth natural size) 



78 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

be boiled with the Patience, and then there will be a pala- 
table dish. In France the leaves are used as a substitute 
for Sorrel, as this plant starts into growth much earlier, 
and when young is not at all an inferior vegetable. The 
leaves are also used in salads in the early part of the year 
when other green vegetables are scarce. The plant may 
be increased by division annually •, and grown thus it 
gives an earlier supply than from seed. 

'To Cook Patience 
The leaves should be cooked as Sorrel. 



CONGO POTATO 



There are three varieties of Potatoes that are quite 
distinct from our ordinary garden forms, and the one 
most notable is the Black Congo, though this is not much 
grown in this country. This variety cannot be called 
profitable as an article of food when grown along with 




OTATO VITELOTTE 



the ordinary kinds, but it is useful in decorative cookery, 
and the flavour is not inferior. This variety has a black 
skin and dark flesh. It may be planted in the spring, 
but requires a well-drained, warm soil. To be served 
whole the tubers must not be pared but boiled with the 
skins intact, and when cooked the outer skin is to be 
removed with a piece of flannel. 



79 



FIR APPLE POTATO 

This is distinct, and the growth when fully developed is 
like a cluster of Fir Apples — hence its name. It is in my 
opinion, much superior in flavour to the Congo, and when 
well cooked makes an attractive dish. The tubers should 
be cooked whole and not be broken in the cooking. The 
culture is much the same as advised for the Congo, but 
the Fir Apple Potato will grow in colder positions, 
though it well repays a well-drained soil. There are 
two varieties : the White, which is a smaller kind, and the 
large Red. They resemble each other in flavour, and it 
may not be necessary to grow both kinds, the last named 
being best in loamy soil. They are best planted in April or 
early in May, and will not require too much space. The 
tubers will be ready in autumn, and should then be lifted 
and given cool storage in sand or soil. 



80 



SWEET POTATO 



This is a great favourite in America, and a recent 
writer in The Garden, vol. Ixiii. p. 191, gives the 
following extract in reply to a previous note of mine 
on the value of this root in South Africa : '* The New 
York market 

growers prefer ^X^^^^^'^^ 

a dry and mealy 
Potato such as 
the growers 
about Vine- 
land, New 
Jersey, pro- 
duce in the 
highest pos- 
sible quality, 
but our South- 
ern friends pre- 
fer one that 
is moist and 
sugary, with a 
tendency to exude syrup while cooking. As for the 
methods of sowing they are legion. Baked as suggested 
by Mr Wythes they are excellent ; better still when 
cooked in the drippings under roasting meat, like York- 
shire pudding. Roast possum, with Sweet Potatoes 
cooked in the gravy, forms the acme of culinary delight 
to the Southern negro. Plainly boiled the Sweet Potato 
is satisfying and nutritious. The skin should be left on 
until cooked, then removed before sending to the 
17 81 




ROSE DE MALAYA SWEET POTATO 
{One-eighth natural size) 



82 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

table. Boiled and cut into slices, then fried brown, 
the Sweet Potato forms a nice breakfast dish, and is also 
admirable as an accompaniment for roast poultry, especially 
duck. A rich baked pudding is made from Sweet 
Potatoes ; and the same vegetable in the Southern States 
takes the place of pumpkin in making pies. They are 
also made into biscuits (I mean buns according to the 
speech of the home country), and are slowly baked with 
butter and sugar until glazed with a rich caramel sauce. 
I am sure that English people who once acquire a 
taste for Sweet Potatoes would welcome this addition 
to their tables ; though, unlike green Corn, which every 
foreigner loves upon first introduction, a taste for 
them must be cultivated." Any of the ways in which 
ordinary Potatoes can be cooked are applicable to Sweet 
Potatoes. See " The Book of Vegetables." 



QUINOA 

QuiNOA (Chenopodium quinod) is an annual plant, a native 
of Peru. It is a large growing plant, having stems 
4 to 6 feet high and large pointed leaves of a woolly 
nature. It is rarely grown in this country, but in 
America its seeds are much employed in cookery. In 
the mountainous parts of the Cordilleras the Quinoa was 
at the time of the Conquest by the Spaniards much 
used, being the chief farinaceous seed used for food, 
and travellers inform us that now it forms with the 
Potato the common food by those who cannot afford 
more expensive foods. The seeds are the edible 
portion used, and these are largely used in soups and 
made into bread, and the latter is considered to be 
digestible ; also when fermented a kind of beer is made, 
the seed being mixed with millet ; and they are largely 
used for feeding poultry. It will be seen that the plant 
is valuable in the countries named ; moreover, in addi- 
tion to the seeds, the young tender leaves are gathered 
and cooked like Spinach. In this country the seeds 
are not much sought after, as they have a peculiar 
acrid taste, and so far I have never heard of anyone 
getting rid of this bitter flavour no matter how the seeds 
were cooked. It may be that owing to the plants requiring 
a longer season to perfect their growth in this country 
this bitter taste is the result, but as the same thing 
occurs in France, it appears that the Quinoa is not at 
its best grown in certain soils. There are several 
varieties of this plant, and it is the white one that is 
used for food, the others have red and black seeds, 

83 



84 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

also different coloured leaves. Most of them seed freely 
and are vigorous growers. The plant making a rapid 
growth, 4 to 6 feet, and being an annual, it will be seen 
that much space is required to grow it properly •, and 
it is well to give a good holding soil, and a warm, well- 
drained one in addition, as though the plant will grow in 
almost any position, it will not ripenits seed in thiscountry, 
unless grown as advised. The best results I have seen 
have been from plants sown under glass in March and 
planted but in May or June ; that is, given similar culture 
to our vegetable Marrow. Another plan is to sow in 
small pots and place in a cold frame, and to plant out 
when a few inches high. Seed may be sown in the 
open in May in drills 2 to 3 feet apart and the plants 
when large enough thinned to half that distance in the 
row. The plant raised under glass gives a much better 
return. The points of the shoots should be taken out 
when in full growth to induce side shoots to form. The 
leaves may be used as Spinach, and there should be ample 
supplies of moisture given in dry, hot weather. The 
plant makes its growth from June to September, and at 
the last-named month it perfects its seeds. These are 
then harvested, dried, and stored in a cool place. When 
the plant is only grown for its leaves, less space may be 
given. 

To Cook Quinoa 

The leaves are cooked as Spinach. The seeds, having 
been boiled, may be used in soups and cakes as flavourers. 



RAMPION 



Rampion {Campanula rapunculus) is a biennial plant, a 
native of Britain. It is not largely used. The roots, 
which are fleshy and white, are used in a boiled state 
and in salads ; the 
leaves also are used 
in winter salads. The 
plant prefers a light 
soil, ample moisture, 
and a shady situation, 
and in dry, thin, poor 
soils the plants have 
a tendency to run to 
seed, so that it is well 
to give good culture 
and not sow too early 
for winter supplies. 
May is quite early 
enough, indeed I have 
got excellent roots 
from July sowings. 
The plants should be 
sown in drills 12 inches 
apart, and the seed- 
lings thinned to half 
that distance or even less ; and owing to the 
seeds being very small, many growers sow broad- 
cast, and thin the plants to 3 or 4 inches apart, 
merely raking the seeds in when sown, and making 
the surface quite level. Why I advise drills for 

85 




{One-third natural size) 



86 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

most vegetable seeds Is that during the growth of 
the plant the soil or surface is more easily kept free 
of weeds, as by using a small Dutch hoe the work 
is done quickly. In the case of very small seeds 
that are difficult to handle, it is an easy matter to mix 
sand with the seed and thus ensure even distribution 
in the drills and prevent crowding of the seedlings. 
The roots are fit for use in the autumn, and the plant 
may be wintered in its growing quarters, the only 
drawback being that in severe weather it may be difficult 
to get at the plants, therefore cool storage will be 
advisable with plenty of soil or sand placed between 
the roots. If the plant is much liked, two sowings may 
be made, in April and June. 

To Cook Rampion 

Treat the roots after the manner of Skirret, boiling 
till tender. Serve with melted butter or sauce 
HoUandaise. 



RHUBARB 

Rhubarb {Rheum hybridum) is among the most use- 
ful of plants, and certainly one that cannot be called 
rare. My excuse for including it in this book is that 
it did not find a place amongst the ordinary vegetables 
and it is too valuable to omit. 

There has been more interest taken in the cultivation 
of this plant of late years, some valuable introductions 
have been distributed, and there is a great breadth 
of land occupied by these roots near London and the 
larger towns in the kingdom ; indeed from Christmas 
to June, by forced produce and the open ground supply, 
a large trade is done, and the leaf stalks that are the 
edible portion both in a blanched and natural state 
make an excellent substitute for fruit in tarts, and a 
delicious preserve, and by no means an inferior wine. 
The plant will be found in all gardens, large and small, 
but it is not always given the best cultivation. It is a 
native of Central Asia, and has been cultivated in this 
country for over three hundred years. It does best in 
good soil and well repays for food given, but clayey or 
wet soils are not suitable. It is propagated readily 
by division, and doubtless that is a good way to get a 
true stock of any good kind, but I have been very 
successful with seed, and I find it comes remarkably 
true from seed, and excellent produce may be secured 
in less than two years from the date of sowing, that is 
the plants the second year produce freely. The plant 
requires a deeply dug, well manured soil, and when 

raised by seed, April is the best time to sow, and by 

87 • 



88 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



division just before growth is active in the early spring ; 
each portion of root detached from the plant should have 
a crown or bud and the roots should be placed below the 
surface, so that the crown is quite covered. One good 

sized plant will make a 
number of roots when 
carefully divided, and 
these should be made firm 
at the planting by tread- 
ing during the work, 
when the soil is in suit- 
able condition. No stalks 
should be taken the first 
year, and in dry weather 
supplies of food in the 
shape of liquid manure 
would be well repaid. 
In all gardens of any size 
it is advantageous to 
make new quarters every 
two or three years, and 
many growers force the 
older roots, but I find 
much better results will 
follow if two or three 
year old roots are forced ; the leaf-stalks, though 
less numerous, are much stronger, and that is a great 
gain. In planting, ample space should be given the 
plant, at least 3 feet between, and 4 feet between 
the rows, and in the late spring and early summer 
the seed stems must be cut as soon as they appear ; 
but some of the newer kinds, such as the Sutton 
Rhubarb, bear very little seed and this is an advantage. 
Few plants force more readily, and this usually com- 
mences in November and is continued up to the time 
the open ground crop is ready. The old plan of covering 




RHUBARB STALKS 
(Ore-seventh natural size) 



RHUBARB 89 

over with pots and warm litter is good, as it gives 
better flavoured stalks than from lifted roots forced in 
strong heat. 

I have referred to seedlings and their value, and we 
raise plants every year for forcing in this way. The 
seed is sown in April each year, and the very early 
kinds are selected, but the well-known Champagne 
comes true from seed. The seed is sown in land 
well manured and the surface made fine, in drills 2 
feet apart. Sow very thinly, and when large enough 
thin to 12 inches apart. The next season every 
other root may be removed and planted in good land, 
given more space, or the whole may be taken up and 
transplanted, and will then make good forcing plants 
the next autumn. If not intended to force, the first plan 
is good, but in all cases there must be room allowed 
for the plant to develop. 

For forcing purposes we usually use the Early Scarlet, 
or Royal Albert. Myatt's Linnaeus is an excellent 
variety, as also is the Paragon ; the latter is large and 
very prolific, and for general purposes the well-known 
Victoria is an excellent variety. I have referred to the 
Sutton; this may be classed as a superior form of 
Victoria, earlier than that variety, with a bright red 
stalk, the colour of which is well retained after the 
cooking ; the stalks are large and of splendid quality. 

Recently there has been a small form of Rhubarb 
introduced from the Colonies, and this differs from 
ours in that it starts so early into growth in the autumn 
that *it requires no forcing whatever, but to prevent 
damage by frost it needs cover of some kind. It is sent 
out by several firms ; it is also grown in the United 
States, so that it will soon become well known. 
Another new Rhubarb is Daw's Champion, a very 
early and good form, a grand forcer. It will be seen 
that there is a wide selection of really good kinds. 



ROCAMBOLE 

Rocambole {Allium scorodoprasum) is a plant closely 
allied to the Onion and Garlic, and is much used in 
cookery where the last named plant is disliked, the 
Rocambole being much milder, and when used in a green 
state, more delicate in flavour. The plant is a hardy 
perennial, a native of Denmark and not so much grown 
in this country as on the continent. The bulbs when 
matured are not so large as well grown Garlic, and these 
are produced in a cluster at the root. The stem growth 
is about two feet. The stems also produce a number of 
small , bulbs, and from these the plant is reproduced 
freely, but those at the root give much the best 
plants, if divided and planted in February or March. 
Much the same culture should be given as to Shallots 
or Garlic. They do best in good soil, planted in rows 2 
feet apart, 6 inches between the bulbs, and placed at 
least 2 inches under the soil, each bulb being pressed 
well into the soil at planting, as they have a tendency to 
lift out of the ground when forming root at the base. 
The after culture is very simple, merely keeping the 
ground free of weeds, and as the leaves begin to decay 
the bulbs should be taken up and dried in the sun, then 
bunched together and stored in a cool shed. They keep 
well if suspended from a roof which is damp proof. In 
suitable soil and position, I have seen these plants 
wintered in the open. Grown thus they make a very 
early growth in the spring, and when required to use in 
a green state this mode of culture answers well. 



90 



SCOLYMUS 



I HAVE seen this plant grown in this country under the 
name of Gol den Thistle — doubtless that appellation applied 
to its golden coloured flower heads. These are large, and 




GOLDEN THISTLE 
{Onc-iivelfth natural size ; root, one-' hird natural size) 

the growths attain a height of 3 feet. The genus is a small 
one. There are three species, and the variety, Hispani- 
cus, or the Spanish, is the form grown as a vegetable; it is 
often known as the vegetable Oyster plant, as the flavour 

91 



92 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

of the roots is supposed somewhat to resemble oysters. 
On the continent, especially in Spain, the roots are 
cultivated in the same way as the Scorzonera, and are 
considered to be quite as good. The leaves and stalks of 
the plants are also eaten as Cardoons by the people of 
Salamanca, but they should be well grown to be equal to 
the Cardoon. The flowers also are used for various 
purposes, one being for the adulteration of Saffron. This 
variety is biennial and easily cultivated, and may be in- 
creased by division or grown from seeds. If the latter, they 
are best sown in the early spring and when large enough 
transplanted into deeply dug land, as though the plant 
will thrive in almost any soil when grown for use as a 
vegetable, it repays good culture and should be planted 
in ground that was well manured for a previous crop, as 
if recently manured the roots fork or split up badly. 
Seed is best sown in March or April in rows 2 feet apart 
and the plants thinned to 1 8 inches apart in the row. 
The roots will be ready by the autumn, and may be lifted 
and stored or left in the soil and used as required. 

To Cook Scolymus 

The roots may be cooked in any of the ways in which 
Salsify is cooked. See the recipes given in " The Book 
of Asparagus." 



SCURVY GRASS 



Scurvy Grass {Cochlearla officinalis) is a hardy annual, 
a native of this country, being found growing on the 
sea shores often among sand and stones, or on shallow 
rocks with por- 
tions of sand 
and earth to 
root into. 
Many years 
ago this plant 
was a much 
greater favour- 
ite in kitchen 
gardens than 
at the present 
day, and as 
regards its 
value as a 
vegetable it is 
of course in- 
ferior to many 
others. But 
it should not 
altogether be 
lost sight of, 

as for many years it was considered a valuable 
addition to salads, and in a fresh state it possesses 
valuable medicinal properties as it is stimulant, diuretic, 
and a powerful antiscorbutic, and for these qualities it is 
a valuable salad plant and readily grown. It is not a large 

93 




SCURVY GRASS 
{One-tenth natural size) 



94 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

grower, the plants being dwarf. The leaves are heart 
shaped, shining, roundish, and the plants produce small 
white flowers freely in May and June. It is best sown 
in a moist or shady position. For years I grew this 
plant for salad purposes under the partial shade of a 
large Medlar tree, and there was an ample supply of 
leafage, if the plants were given an occasional watering 
with salt mixed in the water. Sown broadcast in April, 
and the young plants thinned when large enough to 
handle and then kept free from weeds, there will be 
ample cutting. Used as a vegetable it is best sown 
thickly and cut over like Spinach *, but I fear it will not 
find much favour owing to its peculiar flavour, though as 
an addition to salads it is worth room in most gardens. 



SKIRRET 



Skirret (Smm sisarum) is a plant cultivated for its 
roots, rarely seen in British gardens. It is a perennial 
plant, a native of China and Japan, and in those countries 
it is esteemed 

and much used «v .^^ 

for food. The %-^)^l^ 

edible portion, 
the root, has a 
very peculiar 
taste and it takes 
some time to get 
used to it, but 
this occurs with 
other vege- 
tables. The 
roots are pre- 
pared in, the 
same way as 
Scorzonera and 
Salsify, but I 
do not think 
them equal as 
regards quality 
to those last 
named. The plant is raised mostly from seed, but it 
may also be propagated much in the same way as Seakale, 
that is by root cuttings, but these must have a bud or 
eye, and at the planting the cutting must be placed under 
the soil. 

95 




{One-twenty-fifth natural size ; detached roots, 
one-eighth natural size) 



96 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

Seed sown at the end of March or early in April is the 
best mode of culture, but the seed will not germinate 
freely unless the soil is moist, so that it is necessary to 
give water in dry weather. For that reason I would 
advise sowing in rather deep drills 1 8 inches apart, 
and thinning the seedlings to 9 inches in the drill. 
The plant likes light, rich, deep soil, and needs ample 
moisture during growth, such as liquid manure or 
fertilisers. In October the roots will be large enough 
for use, or even earlier in good land. Later on the roots 
should be taken up and stored in the same way as 
Salsify. The seeds are obtained from the plants the 
second year they are in flower in July or later. The 
plants left in the soil will show flowers earlier, but these 
are of no value. The roots are much divided, or spread 
out, and need care in lifting. 

To Boil Skirret 

To boil Skirret, a dozen roots should be first well 
washed and scraped and at once put into a basin of cold 
water with an egg-cupful of vinegar in it. In five 
minutes place the roots in an enamelled stewpan con- 
taining a boiling mixture of half a pint of water, quarter 
of a pint of milk, two slices of lemon, a little salt, and 
half an ounce of butter. Boil until quite tender, which 
will usually be in about an hour's time or a little more. 
Take out the Skirret and well drain it. It may be 
served whole, melted butter, heiirre jondu^ or sauce 
Hollandaise accompanying it in a sauceboat. Or the 
boiled roots may be cut into inch lengths, and a layer 
of them placed at the bottom of a fireproof pan, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and covered with a little bechamel 
sauce, this arrangement of layers being repeated till the 
pan is full. Over all sprinkle grated Cheshire, Cheddar, 
or Parmesan, and having covered it with very small 
pieces of butter, heat for a few minutes in the oven. 



SORREL 

There are several kinds of Sorrel, and they are 
mostly perennials, the one that is probably best known 
being the Common Garden Sorrel that is so plentiful in 
fields. There are others somewhat similar. The Belleville 
is a cultivated French variety, and an excellent garden 
Sorrel. This is superior to our common form, and there is 
another of French origin having blistered leaves. This 
latter is grown largely on the continent, as it is the last 
to run to seed ; the common British form is bad in this 
respect. Tbe Roman or Round-leaved Sorrel {Rumex 
scutatus) is a hardy perennial much grown abroad ; this 
has a trailing stem, and is from 12 to 1 8 inches in height, 
having heart-shaped leaves, glaucous and smooth, which 
are more acid than those of the other species, and this 
by many persons is much liked, as for flavouring or in a 
cooked state as a green vegetable it makes a more 
palatable dish. There is also the Mountain Sorrel of 
the French {R. montanus) and the Oseille Vierge, a 
smaller form, and these do not run so quickly to seed as 
our varieties. The leaves of the last named have a pale 
green colour and are less acid, but the Oseille Vierge 
verte liste is the reverse in this respect, and the Green 
Mountain variety has larger leafage of a dark green 
colour, which are produced earlier in the spring and is 
the last to run to seed, so that it is a desirable garden 
variety. The Messrs Vilmorin of Paris give the 
larger Belleville as the best variety, and there is no 
doubt but that it is a good garden variety, though there 
are others on the continent under diverse names that are 
well worth attention. At one time I gave this vegetable 

G 97 " 



98 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

a trial, and had over a dozen named kinds, British and 
foreign ; some were very much alike, but the best was 
certainly the Belleville and the Green Mountain. The 
chief difficulty with some of the small forms is their 
tendency to run to seed, and when this takes place the 
plant does not furnish good leaves, so that it will be 
seen the more it is cut and used the better for the plant, 
and in all cases the seed stems should be removed as 



COMMON BROAD-LEAVED FRENCH SORREL 

{One-six ih natural size) , 

soon as they appear. At one time Sorrel was grown in 
the large market gardens near London much more than 
at the present day. This is not surprising, as with 
more gardens the tendency is to grow what may be 
termed popular vegetables, and Sorrel requires more care 
in gathering and packing than many other vegetables. 
It was much used in the spring many years ago, but I 
have frequently been over large gardens where the 
plant was not grown. In addition to its use as a 
vegetable, it makes an excellent addition to the salad 
bowl. It may be lifted and gently forced under 
glass, and supplies had much earlier in the season if 
grown thus. 



SORREL 99 

The culture is most simple, but the plant does not 
always come true, at least it tends to revert back to its 
original type when sown from seed. I prefer to divide 
the plant, and if this is done annually there will be a 
full crop of succulent leaves, and the plants grown thus 
will not run to seed so quickly. In many gardens the 
few plants of Sorrel are often relegated to an out-of- 
the-way corner of the kitchen garden, but these plants 
do not give the best material, and if left for years in one 
place the foliage becomes small and the plant seeds 
quickly. In France these plants deservedly get good 
culture, and well repay for labour by the wealth of 
leafage given for two or three months or more. Our 
cooks at home are not fond of Sorrel like the French 
chef, but it is a very good vegetable, and one that agrees 
with delicate persons. I have referred to seed sowing. 
This is best done early in the spring, though to gain time 
I have sown any special variety as soon as the old plants 
had ripened the seed in August; but sown then it needs an 
open well-drained soil and the seedlings thinned as soon 
as large enough to handle. Sown in March the seed is 
best in rows, 2 feet between the rows, and half that 
distance between the plants, when finally thinned the 
plants lift readily, so that seedlings transplant freely, but 
there should be no lack of moisture afterwards. Good 
land will furnish the best leaves, as though the plant will 
grow almost anywhere, it well repays when given a 
deeply dug and well-enriched soil, and prefers a moist 
situation. 1 have referred to autumn sowing. These 
plants will give leaves in the following April. Spring 
sown will need about two months before being large 
enough for use. In cutting the largest leaves should 
be used first, thus allowing the smaller ones to grow ; 
if all are cut at the start it is wasteful. I now come 
to propagation by division, and this gives leaves in a 
shorter time j it also has the advantage of retaining 



loo THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

any good variety. The plants are best if divided just 
before new growth commences in the early spring 
months. Our mode of culture is to plant a small quarter 
annually and destroy the oldest, and not to use the same 
space again. For a time a certain space is allotted for the 
plants, and this lasts about three years. The planting 
begins at one end, and each year a third of the room is 
occupied, and at the end of the three years another site is 
selected. There is no loss of land, as it will be seen that 
every season a portion or bed is destroyed. The plants 
divide well, and grown about 2 feet apart in rows soon 
attain a large size, especially the large kinds. Our plants 
occupy an east aspect, as our soil is light — in cold places ; 
a warmer site may be better, but as the supply is not 
required after July, the position named is suitable. On the 
other hand, where Sorrel is needed as late as possible, I 
would advise having plants in two positions, north and 
south, as the first named would give a much later supply 
than the last, but the one on the south would be early 
and equally useful. For ordinary supplies a quarter 
planted every three years will give fair material for 
salad purposes, or an occasional dish ; and in some gardens 
I have seen this plant used for dividing the herb beds or 
as an edging, the smaller forms being used, as they are 
compact growers and not readily injured by slugs or 
bad weather. 

To Cook Sorrel 

Sorrel is best cooked with butter as recommended by 
The Queen, preparing it thus: Pick it over well, nip off 
the stalks, and, if thick, tear the midrib from the leaves, 
tearing these also into shreds if large ; then well wash 
it in several waters, finally leaving it in a colander under 
a running tap for a little ; then drain, shake off most of 
the moisture, and put it in a pan with a dust of sugar 
and one ounce of butter for each quart of picked Sorrel, 



SORREL Vi^pii 

the moisture adhering to the Jatter being sufficient to cook 
it, with the butter. Let it cook till well reduced (it 
reduces a great deal), and when quite tender, dust in a 
little fine flour ; stir this over the fire till well mixed, 
when it must be all rubbed through a sieve, reheated, 
and blended with a little more butter or some cream, or 
some good veal gravy, and, if liked, a little more sugar, 
and use. Sorrel may also be cooked by any recipe 
given for Spinach. Sorrel is one of the things that 
require specially to be used fresh, hence probably its 
unpopularity here, where there is not sufficient demand 
to ensure a constant fresh supply. To soften the acid 
flavour objected to by some, use half and half Sorrel and 
Spinach, or one part Spinach to three of Sorrel. If the 
Sorrel is old, and consequently rather more acid, mix it 
in the same way with Lettuce instead of Spinach, and 
allow a little more castor sugar. 



SOY BEANS 

Soy Beans are cultivated exactly as Kidney Beans, the 
plants being bushy, and growing from one to two feet 




ETAMPES YELLOW SOY BEAN 
{One-eighth natural size ; detached pods, one-third natural size^ 

or more in height. They are of vigorous habit, and of 
great productiveness. The beans are cooked and eaten, 
either green or dried, exactly as Kidney Beans. 



SWEET CICELY 

Sweet Cicely {Scandix odorata) is a plant rarely seen in 
gardens at the present day, but well worth culture. It 
is valuable in all preparations in which the flavour of 
Aniseed is required. By many persons the smell is 
objected to ; as both the leaves and other portions of the 
plant smell so strongly of the above herb, it is disHked. 
It is much more cultivated in France and other portions 
of the continent than in this country, and, of course, 
from the market point of view it cannot be termed a 
profitable vegetable. The leaves are mostly used 
mixed with salads, and the roots also are edible, these 
being used in soups and with cooked meats. The 
plant is perennial, hardy, and a native of this country, 
and readily raised from seed, which is best sown in 
September for the next season's supply. It will grow 
in almost any soil, and if sown broadcast, should be 
sown thinly. If sown in the spring, it should get a 
good position and a better root run, as the growth must 
be made in a shorter time. The plant, when grown for 
its roots, should have more room, and is best grown in 
rows 12 to 13 inches apart and the seedlings well 
thinned at the start. For this purpose the seeds should 
be sown early in the autumn in an open position. 

To Cook Sweet Cicely 
The roots are prepared exactly as Chervil. 



103 



TUBEROUS GLYCINE 

The Tuberous Glycine {Apios tuherosa) is known under 
the name of Glycine, owing to the roots being sweet — 
the leaves also in some cases. The tubers, which are the 
edible portion used as a vegetable, are pear shaped. The 
above plant is a hardy perennial and has a very pretty 
habit. It is of a trailing nature, and grown in pots it 
forms a handsome plant trained to stakes. As far as its 
value in vegetable form is concerned, of course it must be 
considered somewhat rare in this country ; but this is not 
the case in other countries. It is a favourite in France, 
being cooked after the manner of Potatoes. The tubers 
are sweet. They are farinaceous, and much liked by 
those who have lived abroad. The plant is readily 
propagated by the tubers. These divided in the early 
spring and planted in light sandy or well-drained soil, and 
a sunny exposed position in the early spring, will make 
good tubers by the autumn. The light, graceful habit 
of the plant, with its brownish-purple sweet-scented 
flowers, makes it a pretty garden plant, the flowers being 
pea shaped, and produced in racemes in profusion. 



YAM 

The Yam, so familiar to all classes in the West Indies, 
China, and other warm countries, is practically unknown 
in this country, as though seen at times in Covent 
Garden and eagerly purchased by those who have 
visited the tropics, few persons have much knowledge as 
to the nature of the plant or of the wholesome and 
palatable character of the food it provides. These roots 
are mostly grown in the tropics, and they are much 
esteemed, but an old West Indian told me that he had 
never in all his travels found Yams equal to those of his 
own country. There they were in great abundance, and 
in the greatest variety, and during the time they were in 
season, they formed a standard dish at the planter's table, 
and were one of the staple foods of the workmen — indeed, 
of all classes in the West Indies, being called the Barbados 
Yam. It is also stated that visitors to that country soon 
become accustomed to the flavour of the Yam, and in time 
fond of them. There are many ways of cooking this 
vegetable, that are almost unknown in this country, the 
common one being to roast or boil, but there are nearly a 
dozen others. The Yam is a perennial plant and a native 
of China, but found in many other warm parts of the Globe; 
and at one time it was thought to be valuable as a sub- 
stitute for the Potato. The roots vary in shape in some 
parts, and the two varieties that are mostly known, Dios- 
corea Batatas and Dioscorea Decarsneara, are distinct in 
shape, and the first named is along root. These are difficult 
to grow on account of their going down so great a 
depth into the soil, and the thin trailing stems attain 

los 



io6 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 



a height of from 
6 to 9 feet. 
The growth is 
not unlike the 
Black Bryony 
found so plenti- 
fully in hedge- 
rows in some 
parts of the 
country, as the 
twining stems 
and shining 
heart- shaped 
leaves much re- 
semble Byrony. 
The second 
named variety is 
more like our 
own Potatoes, 
smooth and 
regular in some 
instances, in 
others very 
irregular, and 
the roots do not 
require such a 
deep soil as they 
grow much 
nearer the sur- 
face. This 
variety has been 
cultivated in 
many countries 
and was intro- 
duced into France in 1854, and this, or a plant but differ- 
ing little in shape and growth, is largely grown in South 




CHINESE YAM 
{One-sixth natural size) 



YAMS 107 

Africa •, indeed those who have been many years in that 
Colony inform me they prefer the Sweet Potato to our 
common form. The growths of the Yam and Sweet 
Potatoes are so distinct in different countries that it 
would serve no useful purpose to describe them at 
length. As a cultivated root I do not think the plant will 
ever become a success in this country. The roots, or as 
they should be more properly termed the rhizomes, are full 
of starch and juice, and these differ from the Potato as they 
go downwards in the soil perpendicularly often to the 
depth of a yard if the soil is loose, and these plants in 
suitable soil, when left to themselves, spread over the 
ground and readily take root. The leaves of the plant 
have been described as not unlike Byrony ; the flowers 
are very small, and a pale yellow, produced in small 
racemes at the axils of the leaves, and the roots may 
be said to be club shaped of different colours — mostly 
dark or fawn colour. The flesh is white and milky. 

In China these roots have peculiar names, and the people 
use them largely as food ; indeed as largely as the Potato 
is used in this country. For seed purposes the smallest 
tubers are preserved through the winter in pits well 
lined with protecting material and covered over. In spring 
they are taken out and sprouted by being placed close to- 
gether in well-prepared soil. They then produce their 
trailing stems, and these, when strong enough, are made 
into cuttings, and planted in ridges they soon root in 
moist weather and form tubers ; fresh stems also appear, 
but these are removed as they rob the tuber. There are 
several varieties of Chinese Yams, but they are of no 
value in this country. The variety noted above is very 
common in China, and this thrives so well that a 
trench lo to 15 feet long will often produce enough 
roots to keep one man a whole year ; that is, there is 
sufficient produce or roots for consumption for that 
period. The plants are also increased by cutting in 



io8 THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES 

pieces ; also from seed. The latter is gathered when ripe, 
and is covered with soil to preserve it. In spring the 
seeds are taken out of the ground and sown. Great care 
must be taken that the roots or seeds are not injured by 
frost. It is found that a much larger crop of roots 
is obtained when the plants are given stakes or supports 
during growth. They twine round the sticks very 
regularly, much like our Scarlet Runners, and the tubers 
average from 14 to 20 inches long, the upper part being 
smallest, and this is often used for planting when cut, 
and the thick and fleshy part for food. 

American Yams a la Francaise 

A very good way of cooking Yams is that advised by 
Mrs de Salis. Cut the Yams into slices about half an 
inch thick, trim into oval shapes, put them into a pan 
full of water ; wash and drain them upon a cloth ; next 
place them in a stewpan with two and a half ounces of 
butter, and season with salt and a grate of nutmeg. 
Moisten with a pint of water ; put the lid on and let 
them simmer for three-quarters of an hour, turning them 
over occasionally, so that they may be equally a bright 
yellow colour on both sides. Arrange in a circle, and 
pour the following sauce over them : — 

Mix an ounce of butter with a dessert-spoonful of 
flour ; put it into a stewpan with a gill of cream, a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar, a little salt, and a teaspoonful 
of lemon-juice. Stir this over the fire till it thickens, 
when it will be ready. 

To Boil Yams 
Having peeled and well washed them, place in cold 
water and boil exactly as Potatoes. 

To Bake Yams 
Wash and lightly scrape the Yams. Then bake in a 
hot oven till soft. Serve as baked Potatoes with butter, 
pepper, and salt. 



INDEX OF PLANTS 



Artichoke, Chinese, 12 

Globe, 5 

Aubergine, 37 

Capsicum, 15 

Cardoon, 18 

Celeriac, 24 

Chervil, 27 

Chick Pea, 29 

Chicory, 30 

Chou de Burghley, 32 

Coco, 33 

Congo Potato, 79 

Cookery of Vegetables, 3 

Corn, Indian, 56 

Couve Tronchuda, 34 

Dandelion, 35 
Deppi, 71 

Egg Plant, 37 
Evening Primrose, 43 

Fennel, 45 

Fir Apple Potato, 80 

Glycine, 104 
Golden Thistle, 91 
Good King Henry, 47 

Hamburg Parsley, 75 
Herb Patience, 77 
Hop, 49 
Horse Radish, 50 

Indian Corn, 56 

Lentil, 53 

Maize, 56 



Mercury, 47 
Mountain Spinach, 59 

Nasturtium, 61 

Nettle, 64 

New Zealand Spinach, 65 

Oka, 71 

Onions, 67 

Onion, Egyptian, 68 

Potato, 67 

Tree, 68 

Welsh, 68 

Oxalis Crenata, 71 

Parsley, Hamburg, 75 
Patience, 77 
Potato, Congo, 79 

Fir Apple, 80 

Sweet, 81 

QuiNOA, 83 

Rami'ion, 85 
Rhubarb, 87 
Rocambole, 90 

Scolymus, 91 
Scurvy Grass, 93 
Seakale Cabbage, 34 
Skirret, 95 
Sorrel, 36, 97 
Soy Beans, 102 
Spinach, Mountain, 59 

■ New Zealand, 65 

Sweet Cicely, 103 
Potato, 8 I 

Yam, 105 



109 



Handbooks of Practical Gardening 

Edited by HARRY ROBERTS 

Price "zs. dd. net each. Crown %vo. Illustrated. Price %\.oo 

THE BOOK OF ASPARAGUS. With sections on Celery, 

Salsify, Scorzonera, and Seakale ; and a chapter on their cooking and 

preparation for the table. By Charles Ilott, F.R.H.S., Lecturer 

on Horticulture to the Cornwall County Council. 

"The work of a specialist. Mr Ilott gives us — for a matter of half-a- 

crown — the ripe experience of a life-time." The Speaker, 

THE BOOK OF THE GREENHOUSE. By J. C. 
Tallack, F.R.H.S., Head Gardener at Shipley Hall. 
"A serviceable handbook for the practical gardener, written with ex- 
ceptional knowledge of horticultural work." The Outlook. 
THE BOOK OF THE GRAPE. With a chapter on the 
History and Decorative Value of the Vines. By H. W. Waru, 
F.R.H.S., late Head Gardener at Longford Castle. 
"A mine of useful information." The St James s Gazette. 

THE BOOK OF OLD-FASHIONED FLOWERS. By 
Harry Roberts, Author of ' * The Chronicle of a Cornish Garden." 
"All who wish for a real old-fashioned garden should certainly study 
this most excellent and practical book." The Bookman. 

THE BOOK OF BULBS. By S. Arnott, F.R.H.S., 
of Carsethorne, near Dumfries. Together with an introductory 
chapter on the Botany of Bulbs by the Editor. 
"Skilled and instructive. It notably enriches the series in which it 

appears." The Scotsman. 

THE BOOK OF THE APPLE. By H. H. Thomas, 

Assistant Editor of The Garden, late of the Royal Gardens, Windsor. 
Together with chapters by the Editor on the History and Cooking of 
the Apple and the Preparation of Cider. 
" This is a most useful volume, which every grower, whether for his own 
use or for the market, should consult." The Spectator. 

THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES. By George Wythes, 

V.M.H., Head Gardener to the Duke of Northumberland. Together 
with chapters on the History and Cookery by the Editor. 
"Thoroughly practical. The book can be highly recommended." 
The Morning Post. 

THE BOOK OF ORCHIDS. By W. H. White, F.R.H.S., 

Orchid Grower to Sir Trevor Lawrence, President of the Royal Horti- 
cultural Society. 
"There are few writers so well qualified to write with authority upon 
these flowers." The Scotsman. 

THE BOOK OF THE STRAWBERRY. With chapters 

on the Raspberry, Blackberry, Loganberry, Japanese Wineberry, and 

Allied Fruits. By Edwin Beckett, F.R.H.S. 

" Mr Beckett deals with his subject in a thorough practical manner . . . 

and fully maintains the general excellence shown in the previous volumes 

of this series. " The Morning- Post. 

THE BOOK OF CLIMBING PLANTS. By S. Arnott, 

F.R.H.S., Author of " The Book of Bulbs." 
"This is a concise, practical, and well-informed exposition of skilled 
knowledge as to the training of creepers, &c." The Scotsman. 



THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS. By the Rev. 
E. Bartrum, D.D. 
"The writer knew as much about the growing of Pears and Plums as 
Dean Hole knows about the cultivation of Roses." The Scotsman. 

THE BOOK OF HERBS. By Lady Rosalind Northcote. 
THE BOOK OF THE WILD GARDEN. By S. W. 

FlTZHERBERT. 

THE BOOK OF THE HONEY-BEE. By Charles 
Harrison. 
This book will be of great assistance to the beginner as showing the 
practical side of bee-keeping. It contains numerous illustrations which 
will be of interest to experienced bee-keepers as well as to the novice. 

THE BOOK OF SHRUBS. By George Gordon, V.M.H., 

Editor of The Gardeners Magazine. 
A special feature of this book lies in the distinction which it makes 
between shrubs and trees peculiarly suited to garden cultivation, and 
those appropriate to the park and woodland. The author desires to 
encourage the culture of shrubs in gardens, and indicates those most suit- 
able for various purposes and situations. 

THE BOOK OF THE DAFFODIL. By the Rev. S. 
Eugene Bourne. 
The author supplies valuable information on the cultivation of daffodils 
gained by the results of his own personal experience. 

THE BOpK OF THE LILY. By W. Goldring. 

A description of, and a practical guide to, the cultivation of all the lilies 
usually to be found in British gardens. 

THE BOOK OF TOPIARY. By Charles H. Curtis 

and W. Gibson, Head Gardener at Levens Hall. 
A textbook of the topiary art, together with some account and famous 
examples of the application of that art. 

THE BOOK OF TOWN AND WINDOW GARDENING. 
By Mrs F. A. Bardswell. 
A handbook for those lovers of flowers who are compelled to live in a 
town. The book should be helpful even to those who are quite ignorant 
in the art of growing plants, and advice is given as to the plants most 
suitable to the various adverse conditions which town gardens afford. 

THE BOOK OF RARER VEGETABLES. By George 

Wythes, V.M.H., Head Gardener to the Duke of Northumberland, 

and Harry Roberts. 
THE BOOK OF THE IRIS. 

A practical guide to the cultivation of the Iris, and also a description of 
and key to all the garden species and varieties. The book will interest 
equally the botanical student, the practical gardener, and the lover of 
beautiful flowers. 
THE BOOK OF GARDEN FURNITURE. 

A practical handbook to the selection, construction, and arrangement of 
the various buildings, trellises, pergolas, arches, seats, sundials, fountains, 
and other structures. 
THE BOOK OF THE CARNATION. By C. P. 

Brotherston and Martin R. Smith. 
THE BOOK OF THE SCENTED GARDEN. By F. W. 

BURBIDGE. 

THE BOOK OF GARDEN DESIGN. By Charles 

Thonger. 
THE BOOK OF THE WINTER GARDEN. By D. S. Fish. 
THE BOOK OF MARKET GARDENING. By R. Lewis 

Castle. 



THE COUNTRY HANDBOOKS 

An Illustrated Series of Practical Handbooks dealing with 
Country Life. Suitable for the Pocket or Knapsack 

Edited by HARRY ROBERTS 

Price3s.net. Bound in Limp Cloth. Price $1,00 net 
Price 4s. net. Bound in Limp Leather. Price $1.20 net 

THE TRAMP'S HANDBOOK. By Harry Roberts. 

With over fifty illustrations^ by Walter Pascoe. A volume con- 
taining much valuable advice to the amateur gipsy, traveller, or 
cyclist, as to camping-out, cooking, &c. 

THE MOTOR BOOK. By R. T. Mecredy. With numer- 
ous illustrations. An invaluable handbook that should find a place 
in the library of every motorist, or even in the car itself. 
Contents : — The Motor — Change Speed Gear and Transmission — How 

to Drive — Care of the Car — Repairs and Adjustments. 

THE TREE BOOK. By Mary Knowles Jarvis. Con- 
taining varied and useful information relating to forests, together 
with a special chapter on Practical Forestry. 
Contents : — Some Famous British Forests — In the Sweet of the Year 
— Autumn's Fiery Finger— The Woods in Winter — The Music of the Trees 
—The King of the Forest— The Beech and the Elm— Plane and Poplar, 
&c., &c.— Practical Forestry. 

THE STILL ROOM. By Mrs Charles Roundell. 

A book of information upon preserving, pickling, bottling, distilling, 

&c., with many useful hints upon the dairy. 
^ Contents : — The Pickling of Meat— Butter, Eggs, and Cheese— Bott- 
ling Fruit and Vegetables — Preserves and Jellies — Wines and Cups — 
Distilling Herbs — Pickles — Refreshments for Garden Parties and Picnics 
— Pot Pourri — Food for Invalids. 

THE BIRD BOOK. By A. J. R. Roberts. A guide to 

the study of bird life, with hints as to recognising various species 

by their flight or their note. 
Contents :— General Structure and Flight— The Music of the Birds— 
Around the House — Birds of the Hedgerow — Birds of the Field — By the 
Riverside — Woodland Birds— By Marsh and Mere — Moorland Birds- 
Birds of the Shore — Along the Rock-bound Coast. 

THE WOMAN OUT OF DOORS. By Menie Muriel 

DOWIE. 

THE STABLE HANDBOOK. By J. F. Dale. With 

numerous illustrations. 

THE FISHERMAN'S HANDBOOK. By Edgar S. 

Shrubsole. With numerous illustrations and diagrams. 

THE SAILING HANDBOOK. By Clove Hitch. With 

numerous illustrations. 

THE KENNEL HANDBOOK. By C. J. Davies. With 

numerous illustrations. 

THE GUN ROOM. By Alexander Innes Shand, 

Author of "Shooting" in "The Haddon Hall" Library. With 
numerous illustrations. 

THE LITTLE FARM. By "Home Counties." With 

numerous illustrations. 

THE COUNTRY COTTAGE. By G. LI. Morris and E. 

Wood. 

THE STABLE HANDBOOK. By T. F. Dale. 
_ 



ONE & ALL SEEDS. 

Illustrated Catalogues Post Free. 



ESTD. igllk^itfllii 1867 




ONE & ALL SEEDS are reliable, pure and guaranteed. 
Each packet bears the Trade Mark, "One & AH" in a 

garter. 
Each packet has an imprint of signature of the Managing 

Director. 
Each packet is dated with the year of issue. 

'<OME & ALL GARDENER'S CALENDAR AND GUIDE." 
Post free on application. May also be had from all 
Agents. 

ONE & ALL productions and publications are supplied by 
thousands of Local Representatives throughout the King- 
dom. They are delivered, carriage free, in large or small 
quantities. 

ONE & ALL is the Registered Trade Mark of the AGRI- 
CULTURAL AND HORTICULTURAL ASSOCIATION, 
LIMITED. Estabhshed 1867. The Pioneer Mutual 
Profit-sharing Society of rural supply. Founded by Judge 
Thomas Hughes, Q.C. (Tom Brown), John Ruskin, Edwd. 
Vansittart Neale, Lord Mount Temple, and other dis- 
tinguished friends of purity of supply. Details sent free 
by post of the Association's organisation, the interest it 
allows on Special Deposits (five per cent.), its Member- 
ship, &c., on application to EDWD. OWEN GREENING, 
Managing Director, Wholesale Seed Warehouses, 92 Long 
Acre, W.C. 

ONE & ALL FERTILISERS. 

Illustrated Catalogues Post Free, 



VEGETABLE CULTIVATION 

By WILLIAM IGGULDEN, F.R.H.S., 

is an excellent Article in 

CLAY'S SUCCESSFUL GARDENING; 

and 

CLAY'S FERTILIZER 

is an Article of World-wide fame for 

PRODUCING ALL VEGETABLES, 

as well as Flowers and Fruits, 
IN THE HIGHEST EXCELLENCE. 






VAK 



^ 



Sold everywhere in 6cl> and Is. Tins *, and in 
Sealed Bags— 7 lb., 2s. 6d.; 141b., 4s. 6d.; 
28 lb., 7s. 6d.; 56 lb., 12s. 6d.; 112 lb., 20s. Or 



■||LONDON(^ direct from the Works, Carriage Paid in the United 



TRADEMARK 



Kingdom for Cash with Order (except 6d. Tins). 

Every Genuine Tin, Bag, and Seal bears 
the TRADE MARK. 



Full Directions for use appear in 

CLAYS SUCCESSFUL GARDENING. 

Its contributions are by the Ablest Writers of the Day. It 
is an up-to-date Work dealing with the Culture of Flowers, 
Fruits, and Vegetables, and includes Articles upon Exhibiting, 
Judging, and Growing for Market. 

204 Pages. Many Illustrations. Third Edition. Bound 
in Cloth. Price gd., Post Free, or of Seedsmen. 



Write for Full Price List of Manures, Chemicals, 
and Sundries. 

Manure Manufacturers and Bone Crushers, 
STRATFORD, LONDON, E. 



VILMORIN=ANDRIEUX & CO., 

SEED GROWERS. (Established 1745.) 
QUAI DE LA MEGISSERIE, 4, PARIS (FRANCE). 

GARDENS— RUE DE REUILLY, 115, PARIS. 

SEED FARMS AND TRIAL GROUNDS— 

At *iVERRIERES-LE-BUISSON, at MASSY-PALAISEAU 

(Seine-et-Oise), and at ANTIBES (Alpes-Maritimes). 

VEGETABLE SEEDS. I FLOWER SEEDS. 

STRAWBERRY SLIPS. | FLOWER BULBS. 

CEREALS OF GREAT PRODUCE. 

TREE AND SHRUB SEEDS. 

SEEDS OF ORANGERIE AND HOTHOUSE 

PLANTS. 

UNIVERSAL EXPOSITION, PARIS, 1900. 

6 GRAND PRIZES— 135 FIRST PRIZES, 
Gold Medal for Tree Seeds, Cape Town Exhibition, 1904-5. 

CATALOGUES SENT FREE ON DEMAND. 

BOOKS BY HELEN MILMAN 

MY KALENDAR OF COUNTRY DELICxHTS. With 12 
full-page Illustrations by Donald Maxwell. Price 5s. 
net. Cr. 8vo. 

Tn THE GARDEN OF PEACE. With -24 Illustrations by 
Edmund H. New. Price 5s. net. Cr. 8vo. {Third Edition. 

OUTSIDE THE GARDEN^ With 10 full-page and 20~ 
smaller Illustrations, and a Cover-design by Edmund H. 
New. Price 5s. net. Cr. 8vo. 

FROM THE HEART OF THE ROSE : Letters on Thi^ 
Natural, Things Serious, Things Frivolous. With a 
Cover-design by Edmund H. New. Price 5s. net. Cr. 8vo. 

MY ROSES, AND HOW I GREW THEM. With lllus- 
trations and Cover-design by Edmund PI. New. Price 
is.6d.net. Cr. 8vo. {Third Edition. 

~~~~ By FRANCIS BACON 

OF GARDENS : an Essay. Edited, with Introduction, by 
Helen Milman (Mrs Caldwell Crofton), and Frontis- 
piece and Cover-design by Edmund H. New. Price 
2s. 6d. net. Demy i6mo. 



BOOKS ABOUT GARDENS 



BY HARRY ROBERTS 

THE CHRONICLE OF A CORNISH 

GARDEN. With Seven Illustrations of an Ideal 
Garden by F. L. B. Griggs. Price 5s. net. Crown 
8vo. 

The Literary IVor/d,— "The Chronicle is written in a frank, un- 
affected style, and will suggest useful ideas to other garden lovers." 

The Bookman. — " It is written with grace and knowledge, and 
pleases as well as teaches." 



BY MRS LESLIE WILLIAMS 

A GARDEN IN THE SUBURBS. With 

Eight Illustrations. Price 5s. net. Crown 8vo. 

The Westminster^ Gazette. — " The writer knows her subjects and 
conveys her facts in an interesting manner, . . . the number of 
hints which she gives about the buying of plants are especially 
valuable. ..." 



BY THE REV. CANON ELLACOMBE 

IN MY VICARAGE GARDEN AND 

ELSEWHERE. With a Photogravure Frontispiece 
of the Author. Price 5s. net. Crown 8vo. 

The Daily Chronicle.— '■^ One is not often fortunate enough to 
come upon a scholar in a flower garden, but Canon Ellacombe has a 
-quality of his own." 

The Academy. — "Canon Ellacombe writes of gardens as one who 
knows, and his latest book has a practical value. He deals with his 
subject in a manner which indicates close observation and genuine 
love. " 



BY MRS MILNE-HOME 

STRAY LEAVES FROM A BORDER 

GARDEN. With Eight Illustrations by F. L. B. 
Griggs. Price 6s. net. Crown 8vo. 

The Daily Chronicle.— '^'^ It is just the sort of book to read as one 
swings in a hammock 'underneath the bough' in the delightful 
summer afternoons." 

The Daily News.— '^ The garden thread runs through it all and 
it is a charming book with plenty of hints to be picked up." 



TWO ILLUSTRATED CLASSICS 



By GILBERT WHITE 

THE NATURAL HISTORY OF SEL- 
BORNE. Edited, with Introduction, by Grant 
Allen. With upwards of 200 Illustrations by 
Edmund H. New. 

Price cs. net. Crown 8vo. 



"The attraction lies chiefly in finding the masterpiece so admir- 
ably illustrated by Mr Edmund H. New. In black and white line 
work of this class he has no equal." — Country Life. 

"Mr Edmund New's drawings are not merely artistic, but full 
of the poetry of association." — Speaker. 

" We have never seen this book in a more agreeable or ap- 
propriate form. " — St James's Gazette. 



By IZAAK WALTON and CHARLES COTTON 



THE COMPLEAT ANGLER. Edited, with 
an Introduction, by Richard Le Gallienne. 
With Photogravure Portraits of Walton and 
Cotton, and over 250 Illustrations and Cover- 
design by Edmund H. New. 

Price 15s. net. Fcap. 4to. 

"A delightful edition, charmingly illustrated." — Punch. 

" Of Mr Edmund H. New's illustrations we cannot speak too 
highly. We have never seen better." — Spectator. 

"One of the best editions; one, we cannot help thinking, that 
Walton himself would have preferred." — Daily Chronicle. 

"A beautiful edition of Isaac Walton's immortal work. The 
great charm of the new edition is Mr New's illustrations. They are 
beautiful reproductions of surface sketches which are in complete 
harmony with the spirit of Arcadian peace, characteristic of the 
grand old angler's pages." — The Pall Mall Gazette. 

"This is the most delightful form that 'The Compleat Angler' 
has ever taken." — TJie Globe. 



> ' V Tp-RQfq^v CiW r<A 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 
BERKELEY 

Return to desk from which borrowed. 
This book is DUE on the last date stamped below. 



JAN 2 1945^3119712 5 




AUTO. DISCj 
JUL i'6 '3'-" 



^^Mr-zMG. 



J 



JUH 21987 

REC'Dl LD 

APR 2911958 
BECOLI ^^^^ 



LD21- 



.100m-9,'47(A57Cf2sl6)476 



YB 






WAN Dm "^ 

THIS BOOK IS nrr^ "^ ' • 



ON 




^-•v^?^^.,^^-^ 7— LEY 




BDD0a7aiD3 



