r&s* 




BANCROFT 
LIBRARY 



THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 



Carson Valley Bank 



Does a General 

Banking Business 

Carson City, Nev. 



Dainties 



Union Cook Book 

Carson Giiy Virginia City 



J. KELLY CO. 

BRIDGE,BEACH8cCO§ fTL A C n -,U 

rior" lne Lasn 

GROCERS 



■'* 




Agents for 
|j!p Bridge & Beach 

Steel Ranges 

and 

Heating Stoves 



Carson City, N«v. 



"$5.00 Donated by a Sinner," Vi] 



irginia City. 



Agent for Red Cross and Grover Shoes for Women. 

Hanan Walk-Over Florsheim for Men. 

Also a Complete line of Rubber Goods and Gloves. 

Burlington's Shoe Co. 

John Canton D. G. Kitzmeyer 

Blacksmith and ■^*%* 

Carriage Work. Harness and 

Horse Shoeing, Jobbing and SoddlCTV 

Repairing of all Kinds. *~ * 



Charges Moderate- Work Satisfactory 



HORSE CLOTHING 



Carson City, Nev. No. 211 S.Carson St. Carson City, Nev. 

W o m en! Don't on account of the 
many compliments paid you on your good 
dinner by your husband, brother or sweet- 
heart, forget to have him send that sample 
to the 

CARSON ASSAY OFFICE 

W. O. Fleckner's 

Chocolates 
Velvet Taffies 
Water lees 
Sherbets 
loe Cream 

Near Depot Phone 507 Carson City, Nev. 



TESTIMONIALS 



c 



Zanesville, Ohio. 
Dear Mrs. Sanner: — Yours is cer- 
tainly a square deal. Not only does our 
church appreciate the opportunity of 
securing your book of Dainties and 
your more than generous terms to us, 
but our merchants on securing their 
gift of a book expressed themselves as 
perfectly satisfied. You have certainly 
fulfilled all our expectations in the 
book. 

MRS. I. L. PUGH, 
Acting Prest. Ladies' Aid. 

Newark, Ohio. 
Dear Sister Lodges: — 1 want to 
State that you will find this cook book 
a dandy money maker. Mrs. Sanner is 
a Lady Maccabee as I am myself. I 
find her book proves satisfactory from 
start to finish. ± remain yours fra- 
ternally, 

MRS. FRANK M. HOWARD, 
Grand Organizer and Inspector of the 
G. I. A. to B. of L. E., Div. 41. 

Ne vark, Ohio. 
Everybody pleased with the books. 
ETTA DUTTON, 
Massillon, Ohio. 



Warren, Ohio, Sept., IMS. 
My nephew, Louis Mahon, 11 year* 
of age, sold thirty-five of your cook 
books in one day, clearing for our 
society $8.75. We are certainly please* 1 
with your gift to us. 

MRS. MAHON. 
Fostoria, Ohio, Nov. 9, 1906. 
Dear Mrs. Sanner: — In behalt of 
oi»r C. E. Society, I want to expreM 
our thanks to you for your gift to u«. 
of 500 books — Dainties. I have sold 
many books and would heartily recom- 
mend the work as a ready money 
maker for any society who wishes t« 
earn $125.00 in a shore time clear of 
expenses and work. Thanking you 
again. 

ROZALBA ZEICHEL, 

(Pastor's daughter.) 
Can make money readily. Sold $3.00 
worth nyself in half an hour. Book* 
are even better than we expected. Can 
recommend heartily . 

MRS. A. C. TONES, 
Prest. St. Peter's Guild. Delaware, O. 
A dandy book. C. H. CASS, 
Eldridg". & Higgins, Mgrs., 

Lancaster, Ohio. 



POPULAR DAINTIES 



Lancaster. Ohio. Dec. 82, lOOfi. 
I am Lady Commander of Lady Mac- 
cabees and I highly recommend Mrs. 
Sanner as a lady -of her word. You 
will find her lovely to work with, and 
I would gladly recommend any order 
of the Lady Maccabees to take up this 
»>ook. 

MRS. ROY CAMPBELL, L. C. 

Xenia, Ohio, Jan. 7, 1!>07. 
Dear Mrs. San nek: — When you came 
(we feared it was too good to be true) 
to us with your offer, we hesitated a 
little, feeling there might be a "catch." 
We have received books and find them 
both good and true. The books are fine. 
MRS. O. H. VORIS. 

Cambridge, O., Dec. 21, 1906. 
Dear Mrs. Sanner: — Books came 
yesterda? Am collecting today. 

Everybod> is much pleased with their 
ads and the book. I have sold several 
books aireadv. 

MRS. CHAS. RAINEY. 



Deak Mrs. Sanner: — The books came 
this week and are all right, and every 
one is pleased with them. We have 
sold a great many already. Have n« 
trouble at all. MRS. EARLE, 

333 N. Main St., Kenton, Ohio. 

201 Olney Ave., Marion, Ohio. 
Mrs. Sanner. Dear Madame: — 1» 
behalf of Wesley Methodist church I 
am glad to say our church have re- 
ceived "Dainties" as per contract, and 
that we find them satisfactory. 

C. E. ROWLEY, Pastor. 

Dear Mrs. Sanner: — We consider 
this book one of unusual merit and feel 
ourselves fortunate to secure it. They 
are selling rapidly. We wish to than* 
you for the books and can recommend 
them to any society that needs to ear* 
monev. 

MRS O. J. ELLIOT, 

Pres. W. H. M. S., Wesley Ch.. 

Marion, OW» 



Copyrighted 

according to act of Con$rre«A 

Mrs. W. K. Sannb*, 



T. G. FARRER (Q. CO. 

Goldsmiths, Silversmiths 

Watchmakers and Opticians 

Carson St. Carson City, Nev. 

Phone 2-3-5 County Building 

JOSEPH SMYTH 

Gents Outfitter 

Gents' Furnishing Goods of Every Description. 

Trunks, Valises, Suit Cases. 

Agent for the M. Born & Co. Tailoring Co. 

A Complete Line of Shoes. Carson City, Nev. 



F. W. Day 

Dry Goods 
Gent's Furnishing 
Carpets Linoleum 
Wall Paper 



Try One of 
Matt Farrells 

Tamales 



Boston Bakery A P K : P SER 



CHARLES L. KITZMEYER 

Drugs and Chemist 

Agent for Eastman Kodaks and Photo 
Supplies. 

Opp. State Capital Phone Main 331 Carson, Nevada 



"POPULAR DAINTIES." 

This little book comes to you in answer to the demand 
among church and club women for "something new." In the 
whirl of change which has revolutionized the little world of our 
ancestors, we find the "Dainty Hostess" holding successfully 
her place in the world with the "Generals of Commerce." And 
since the day when Adam complained in the garden of Eden, 
"the woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of 
the tree, and I did eat"; woman nas realized her title to the 
throne in the masculine heart largely dependent upon her cul- 
linary akitt. These pages have many suggestions which are new. 
Relishes, garnishes and much will appeal to the women seeking 
a pleasing change. They are filled with carefully tested recipes, 
most of which have never before been given to the public. From 
friends known to have a choice formula contributions have been 
iftade, and it is with pleasure that we now place in eager hands, 
"Just the book we need." 

The Author. 

"O! Green and Glorious, Oh! Herbacceous Mea/" 
Twould tempt the dying Anchorite to eat; 

Back to the world he's turn his fleeting soul 

And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 

EGG LTLLIES. 

Place one egg for each lily in cold water, boil 10 minutes, 
drop into cold water, shell and while still warm cut, with silver 
knife, in strips from small end nearly to base, very carefully lay- 
back the petals on a heart of bleached lettuce ; remove yolks and 
rub them with spoonful of butter, i vinegar, a little mustard, 
salt and paprika, form cone shaped ball and place on petals, 
sprinkle tiny bits of parsley over balli,, two or three stuffed olives, 
carry out the idea of buds, serve on cut glass dishes to give water 
effect With care this is not hard to make and its beauty repays 
all trouble it has cost 

EGYPTIAN LOTUS. 

Place eggs in cold water, boil 10 minutes, drop into cold 
water, shall and lay in warm water, if they become cold petals 
will break. Cut eggs through the whites from small end to 
nearly based forming 7 petals, lay back carefully placing on nest 
of bleached lettuce hearts. Do this to prevent handling again ; 
remove yolks, and with a dainty bit of cloth and cold water rub 
off any bit of yolk which may adhere to white petals. Mash the 
yolks with spoonful of butter and one cooked red beet, salt, and 
n *i*nv spoon of cavarie, a dash of mustard and pepper, form into 
oans, rlattei-i «uui lay on white petals, mark with a fork by pressing 
T>r^--'- J ^ J ^e of ball (as you do pie crust) prick holes in center 
of ball leaving it sb'ghtly roughened. For buds, press a ball size 
of pecan between two long stemmed water cress leaves, and twist- 
ing stems, lay qxi lettuce witb lillies. Serve with mayonaise. 



M. HARRIS 

Fancy Groceries, Candy, Bakery, Ice Cream 

Cigars and Tobacco. 

All Kinds of Fruits in Season. 

Carson, City, Nev. 

Davey <&s ^IslIsjIx 

Confectioners and Fruit Dealers 

Cigars and Tobacco 

Telephone 7-3 Emporium Block Carson City, Nev. 

J. A. RAYCRAFT 

Livery, Sale and Feed Stables 

Horses Boarded by Day, Week or Month at 
Reasonable Terms. 

Stage Line, Carson City Bridgeport. 
Carson Street, Carson City, and West Main Street, Genoa, Nev. 

Mrs. R. A. Raftice 

Stationery Magazines. Toys, Notions 

Arlington Block Carson City, Nev. 



FRUIT SALAD, NO. 4. 

Sliced bananas, sliced oranges placed on lettuce leave*, one 
half cup sugar, juice of I lemon poured over all. 

PEACH SALAD. 

Pare and carefully cut in half large yellow peaches, prepare 
two halves for each individual plate, drop halves into ice water to 
chill and prevent turning brown ; chop one-half cup mixed nuts, 
one-half cup fresh or candied cherries, mix with mayonaise, fill 
peaches which have been placed on delicately bleached lettuce 
hearts ; place a puff of thick whipped cream on top, and serve 
very cold, two halves to each plate. 

PEACH SALAD, NO. 2. 

Cut firm peaches into strips, chill, mix with I pint of straw- 
berries, cut, not mash, into small pieces, mixed with one finely 
minced pepper. Serve with mayonaise on lettuce hearts. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD. 

Chill firm, ripe berries, prepare a bed of crisp water cress, 
chop 1 sweet pepper, sprinkle on cress, place chilled berries on the 
center of cress and peppers, put a heaping spoonful of mayonaise 
on each plate, then a large puff of whipped cream with one large 
strawberry in the center. Not only beautiful, but a very palatable 
dish. 

SWEET PEPPER SALAD. 

Chop 6 peppers without seeds, stalk celery, I onion, I toa- 
spoonful salt, mix with mayonaise and place in a mound on bed 
of lettuce leaves ; garnish with eggs., hard boiled. 

SWEET PEPPER SALAD. 

Chop four peppers and one cup cold, boiled beets separately, 
chill, mix lightly, make bed of endive, fill with peppers and beets 
make border of stuffed eggs, cutting eggs so that they will stand 
on end. Mix chopped parsley with butter and salt with dash 
cayenne pepper with egg yolks, form ball and fill whites. Place 
generous fluffs of whipped cream, whipped with mayonaise, ( made 
thick enough to stand up) over salad. One fluff for each person. 

SWEET PEPPER SALAD. 

Chop four peppers, I onion, and mix with sliced cucumbers 
which have stood in cold salt water one hour, sprinkle with a 
dash of black pepper. Serve with white French sauce. 

PEPPER LILIES. 

Cut sweet peppers in petal shaped points leaving them joined 
at the stem end, remove pulp and seeds, make a ball of cottage 
cheese into which has been mixed the tips of peppers finely 
minced and one-fourth cup cream, rice, yolks of hard boiled eggs 
and sprinkle over cheese ball, press peppers petals gently but not 
very closely to side of ball set on bleached lettuce hearts. 



Look out for your Roof 

See that it don't Leak this Winter. 



CHEDIC'S GRAPHITE PAINT 

Made In Carson. 

It Never Comes Off. 

Carson Furniture Co. 

Dealers in all kinds of 

Furniture, Carpets, Linoleum, 
Wall Paper, Etc. 

311 South Carson St. Carson City, Nev. 

Otto T. S>el^vil25 

The Stone Meat Market 

Beef, Pork, Lamb, Mutton, Veal 
Sausage, Etc. 

Telephone 504 North Carson St. Carson City, Nev. 

Grey, Reid, Wright Co. 

Oa.rsoi:a » = Reno 

The Largest General Outfitters in Nevada. 

We make a Specialty of Ladies Ready-to- Wear Garments. 
"A Little More Style." 
"A Little More Value." 
"A Little More Satisfaction." 
Are Anxious With Us. 

Mail Orders Given Most Careful Attention . 



SWEET PEITER SALAD. 

Slice sweet green peppers and firm ripe tomatoes with one 
thinly sliced onion into a bed of lettuce or water cress. Mayo- 
naise No. i. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cucumbers sliced thin, cover with water in which has been 
placed one teaspoon salt and one-half soda. Stand one hour, 
drain, rinse, slice one onion thin, mix with cucumber, dressing, 
one cup thick, sour cream, one-fourth cup vinegar, dash of pep- 
per ; pour over salad ; sprinkle with minced parsley ; set on ice, 
Serve on lettuce hearts. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Chop fine, 4 fresh cucumbers, stand one hour in salt ice 
water, drain, mix one-half cup chopped parsely and one chopped 
onion. Serve with white French sauce on lettuce leaves. 

CUCUMBER CANOES. 

Cut fresh cucumbers in half lengthwise, scoop out the inside 
carefully as near skin as you can and leave a neat firm boat, put 
boats on the ice. Chop cucumber meat and soak one hour in 
salted ice water, drain dry, mix with cup of chopped, mixed nuts, 
and two spoons minced parsely, 1 spoon grated onion, mix 
with mayonaise, fill boats, lay in bed of nasturtium flowers and 
leaves and serve very cold. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Sliced cucumbers soaked in salt ice water one hour, drain, 
pepper and mix with sliced tomatoes. Serve with white French 
sauce and little grated onion. 

HEAVENLY HASH. 

Slice 6 oranges, 1 pineapple, six bananas. Lay bananas in 
bowl, sprinkle over with sugar and nuts ; layer of oranges, sugar 
and nuts ; layer of pineapple, sugar and nuts ; layer of oranges 
ancf strawberries mixed lightly. Cover with whipped cream ; 
garnish with candied cherries ; set on ice. 

CRESS SALAD, NO. I. 

Chop 1 bunch of cress, 1 stalk of celery, 1 onion, mix with 
mayonaise ; place in mound on lettuce leaves, sprinkle chopped 
nuts over top. 

CRESS SALAD, NO. 2. 

Fill salad platter with crisp cress, chop i onion, 2 green 
peppers, 4 hard boiled eggs, mix with mayonaise, lay in little 
mounds on cress. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Stand 1 pint of cherries with stems on, in strong salt water 
on ice over night, rinse off salt water with ice water, lay in lettuce 
hearts. Serve with mayonaize. Eat from stem dipping cherries 
into dressing. 



CANTALOUPE LA BELLE. 

Cut a slice from end of cantaloup, scoop out seeds, fill with 
minced pineapple and 12 large plums cut in dice, well sweetened 
and chilled. This will fill 6 cantaloups. For contrasting color 
scheme arrange thrte cress leaves to form shamrock in center of 
each. Set on ice four or five hours. The juices of fruit will 
fully permeate the cantaioup end taken all in all you will find it 
a salad that will be a delighi, and will bear repeating. 

CHEESE PAi>TEL SALAD. 

Border cut-glass dish with blanched curly lettuce. Divide 
cottage cheese into 4 parts, to 1 cup, add ^ cup blanched nuts ; 
place ball in center of dish, sprinkle with nuts. Rub yolks of 3 
hard boiled eggs into another portion of cheese, 1 bunch of minced 
parsley and a few chopped shallots into the third. Form small 
balls and place alternately around center mound, mix with fourth 
portior 1 mashed sweet red pepper and 1 large spoon pink salmon, 
form ^oiong rolls and lay in lettuce border. Dainty and appetiz- 
ing. 

CANTALOUP CERISE. 

Scoop centers from cantaloups and fiill with ripe red rasp- 
berries sweetened. The juice of one orange and a heaping spoon 
of whipped cream with three candied cherries dropped on cream, 
chill. 

CANTALOUP "SALADE ROYALE." 

Cut small canteloup in half, remove seeds, set on ice until 
thoroughly chilled ; scald, not cook, 3 large red plums for each 
half of cantaloup, 1 cup sugar, % cup water for plums, cool 
plums and fill the cantaloup with fruit and 1 spoon syrup. Put 
a spoonful of mayonaise dressing (in which there are a few 
minced nasturtium seed pods) on each center. Be careful not to 
hide the plums with mayonaise. Sprinkle minced water cress 
over the centers, set on large chop plate, scatter tender leaves, 
buds and blossom of nasturtiums between and around cantaloups, 
makes a beautiful salad, almost too pretty to eat. 

CHEESE SALAD, NO. I. 

Grate ]/ 2 pound cheese, mix with the yolks of 3 hard boiled 
eggs. Roll mashed potato and minced hickory nuts into balls 
the size of English walnut; place balls on lettuce leaf, sprinkle 
cheese and egg around in a little circle ; cover potato ball with 
mayonaise dressing. Sprinkle parsley over all. 

CHEESE SALAD, NO. 2. 

Grate *4 pound cheese, slice 4 eggs ; mash yolks with cheese 
mixed with English walnuts, paprika and 1 stalk chopped celery, 
add salt; make bed of endive on salad platter, mix cheese, nuts 
and celery with mayonaise dressing, lay in a mound on endive, 
border with whites of eggs cut into rings, place an olive in each 
roc. 



COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD, NO. I. 

To a pint of cottage cheese seasoned with salt and cream, 
add t cup chopped nuts of any variety you wish, season highly 
with cayenne pepper, place on individual plates on which you 
have made a little bed of water cress or lettuce. Make cheese 
balls the size of English walnut, press a half nut meat on top of 
each ball, use whipped cream as a garnish placing fluffy ring of 
cream around cheese ball; sprinkle with chopped parsley. A 
pretty dish and a delicious salad. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD, NO. 2. 

One pint cottage cheese, i cup chopped olives and celery 
mixed, 6 drops onion juice, paprika and salt to taste, I teaspoon 
mustard, mix thoroughly, form into balls, roll in chopped parsley. 
Slice 4 eggs and lay eggs in wreath on lettuce, put cone of 
cheese in center; serve with mayonaise dressing. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD, NO. 3. 

Mince i can shrimps with i pint cheese, dash salt and 
paprika, i tablespoon lemon juice, Y teaspoon mustard, 6 drops 
tabasco sauce, chop three stalks celery, mix with one cup chopped 
red beets ; lay celery and beets on leaf of lettuce, put ball of 
cheese and shrimps in the center. 

TOMATO ASPIC. 

Boil two carrots in a granite pan with one quart of tomatoes 
juice, i sliced onion and one red pepper till carrot is tender, strain. 
Have dissolved Yi box gelatine in i cup hot water, put this with 
strained juice of tomato, allow to stand until it begins to show 
signs of "setting," then pour i spoonful into cup mould, place 
in a blanched nut meat; add more juice, a stuffed olive cut in 
half, more juice and several nuts. Fill to the top of the cup with 
juice and set on the ice to harden. 

Arrange water cress or lettuce leaves on plates. Turn jelly 
out of mould and serve with mayonaise. Just as good as it looks. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

Mince I stalk celery, I onion, 10 pepper corns, I clove garlic, 
y 2 lemon rind, 4 cloves, 6 sprigs parsley ; add 1 quart veal stock, 
Yi cup vinegar, boil slowly Y* hour, strain, add 1 box Cox's 
gelatine previously dissolved in cold water, bring to a boil, beat 
whites of two eggs with broken shells, whisk into liquor, bring 
to a boil, set off stove for a few minutes, filter through thick 
cloth, put in mould. It is ready to use as soon as set. Serve to 
garnish salads, or as a salad on lettuce or cress. 

NORMANDY SALAD. 

Stew 1 pint fresh green peas, season with butter, pepper and 
salt while cooking. Be careful and not scorch, but cook until 
there is a little juice left in the pan. Mix with peas 1 cup hickory 
nut meats, Y* cup capers, dash of paprika. 

Serve in lettuce leaves with mayonaise. 



PEA SALAD. 

One can French peas, I cup peanuts with husk removed and 
chopped fine; place in mashed potato nests and cover with may- 
onaise dressing. Place on cress leaves. 

LIMA BEAN SALAD. 

Boil till tender i tea cup beans; when cold add three diced 
potatoes, i large stalk celery chopped fine ; cover with mayonaise 
dressing, set on ice. Garnish with parsley. 

TOMATO SALAD, NO. I. 

Cut a slice from stem end of smooth, firm tomato, scoop out 
center, rejecting seeds, mix the meaty part of tomato with finely 
minced cucumber which has stood in strong salt water and is 
thoroughly chilled, season with pepper, six drops of onion juice, 
a pinch of celery seed, fill tomato shells, placing on top a spoon- 
ful of thick mayonaise, sprinkle minced parsley over all. 

TOMATO SALAD, NO. 2. 

Cut the tops of large firm tomatoes, scoop out the center, fill 
with chopped sweet peppers and whipped cream with a dash of 
sugar. 

TOMATO SALAD, NO. 3. 

Scoop out centers and fill with ripe strawberries well pep- 
pered with black pepper, a dash of paprika and a generous 
sprinkling of sugar. Finish with a mound of whipped cream. 

TOMATO SALAD, NO. 4. 

Scoop out centers, select the coral from can of lobster and 
mince with one green, sweet pepper, mix with the meaty part of 
the tomato, rejecting the seeds, add salt and paprika, a spoonful 
of minced parsley, fill shells, put thick mayonaise on top, garnish 
with a sprig of parsley, set on lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO SALAD, NO. 5. 

Scoop out the center, to one cup of cottage cheese add I sweet 
red pepper minced with one sprig of parsley, Yi cup of thick, 
whipped cream, fill tomatoes lightly, set on ice. Serve in wreath 
of water cress with parsley garnish. 

TOMATO SALAD, NO. 6. 

Scoop out tomato centers, cook one cup of diced carrots with 
1 minced onion and i celery stalk, salt and a generous dash of 
paprika. Pick out carrot dice and mix with one cup of French 
peas which have been cooked separately in rich white cream 
dressing, chop the whites of 4 hard boiled eggs, rice the yolks, 
make a wreath of water cress on which first place the whites, 
sprinkling the riced yolks all over, set tomatoes in center. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Scoop out the seeds after cutting slice off the top of firm 
ripe tomato, chop one onion, one stalk celery, 1 hard boiled Qgg, 
mix with mayonaise dressing, fill tomatoes. Set each tomato in 
center of sliced green pepper, which makes a pretty scalloped 
ring. Place slice of hard boiled egg on top. Serve cold. 

10 



ORANGE SALAD. 

Arrange three quarter orange shells on lettuce leaves. Na- 
sturtium leaves, ith stems and buds or cress. Fill shells with 
the pulp of oranges, mixed with pineapple, Malaga grapes 
(seeded) chopped nuts and candied cherries. Sweeten to taste. 
Serve with whipped cream puffs on top of each with chopped nuts 
sprinkled over all. 

LA PIQUANT STRAWBERRIES. 

Place large ripe berries in cut glass compotes, sprinkle finely 
minced parsley and a very generous shake cf black pepper over 
them. Add a prinkling of sugar and a mound of whipped cream, 
a piquant and delightful surprise in strawberries. 

ORANGE DE MENTHE. 

Cut a slice from the tops of seedless oranges, remove the 
pulp, picking out white membrane, add to the pulp 10 pickled 
walnut meats, 25 salted almonds, 10 tiny red peppers chopped 
fine, 1 teaspoon liquor from cream de menthe cherries, and three 
cherries to each orange cup, fill the shells and place a spoonful 
of whipped cream on the top. Garnish with crystalized mint 
leaf. Sweeten the filling slightly, if desired, or, if served with 
game course, use salt and no sugar, one small tablespoon of salt 
to 12 oranges. 

ORANGE BASKETS. 

Cut out piece of each side of orange cup leaving strip for 
handle over the top, take out the pulp, mix with chopped pine- 
apple, a sprinkling of blanched almonds, 3 candied cherries to 
each orange, sweeten to taste, fill shells, put on spoonful whipped 
cream, pierce a hole through the handle and run stems of two or 
three violets with a small spray of fern through each handle. 

FRUIT SALAD, NO. I. 

One box Cox's gelatine dissolved in 1 cup hot water. When 
nearly cold add one cup granulated sugar and one cup cold water ; 
cut three oranges in small pieces, one pineapple cut in dice, three 
sliced bananas, one-fourth pound candied cherries, one-fourth 
pound blanched almonds ; place on ice 'til firm ; turn out of mould 
on large dish, and serve in blocks at table with spoonful of heavy 
whipped cream. 

By taking care to put a little of the gelatine into mould, 
and distribute the fruit artistically, alternating gelatine and fruit, 
you can have a beautiful as well as a palatable dish. 

FRUIT SALAD, NO. 2. 

Slice I orange, 2 bananas, add 1 pint strawberries, cup sugar, 
place on lettuce leaves. Serve with puffs of whipped cream with 
chopped nuts sprinkled over top. 

FRUIT SALAD, NO. 3. 

One pineapple cut in dice, i quart strawberries, 6 ripe peaches 
cut small, one-fourth pound candied ginger, cup sugar. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



TOMATO SALAD. 

Rub a clove of garlic until it is crushed around the inside of 
your salad bowl, slice in bowl 6 firm ripe tomatoes, pour over 
them 34 CU P of vinegar, in which has been blended table-spoon 
of sugar, two table spoons of olive oil, a strong dash of cayenne 
pepper, and a generous pinch of salt. Have vinegar cold, pour 
over and set on ice. 

TOMATO PETS. 

Cut off top slice of tomato, scoop out the center, chop fine 
white meat of chicken, rub with x / 2 teaspoon mustard, >4 tea- 
spoon celery seed, dash salt and paprika, yolks of 4 hard boiled 
eggs. Mix with mayonaise dressing, fill tomatoes, and sprinkle 
chopped parsley over the top. Serve in lettuce leaves ; garnish 
with white of eggs cut in rings with olive in center. 

TOMATO NUTS. 

Scoop seeds out of ripe tomatoes, chop one cup of mixed nuts 
and mix with cream dressing, fill tomatoes ; put one shrimp on 
each tomato with spoon of mayonaise. 

Serve on a little ring of chopped cress, green pepper and 
onions. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Strain one can of tomatoes. Be careful and have no seeds. 
Boil in granite pan one carrot, one sliced onion, one stalk celery 
in juice of tomato, strain carefully through several folds of cheese- 
cloth. Dissolve one box Cox's gelatine in one cup boiling water. 
When dissolved add strained juice of tomatoes, etc. When nearly 
cold and growing stiff, place a spoonful in mould, drop in three 
nut meats, a couple spoons of jelly, two or three white or green 
grapes, small pieces of sliced orange, more nuts and more jelly 
until each mould is filled. Set on ice and serve on nest of lettuce 
hearts, one mould of jelly to each person, serve with a candied 
orange straw on each plate. A beautiful salad. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Mince 4 hard boiled eggs and two chicken livers, season 
with salt and paprika, 5 drops onion juice, 5 drops tobasco sauce, 
1 chopped sweet pepper ; mix and fill large, firm, ripe tomato out 
of which centers have been cut; set on ice. Serve with French 
White Sauce on water cress. 

TOMATO SWEETBREADS. 

Scoop centers out of tomatoes, set on ice. Have prepared 
one pint of creamed sweetbreads cold. Just before serving, fill 
the tomatoes with sweetbreads, sprinkle over the top riced hard 
boiled egg-yolks (pressed through a potato ricer) with a bit of 
chopped parsley over all. Place on lettuce hearts and serve sur- 
rounded by egg whites with a cone of apple jelly in center of the 
ring. Serve with Mayonaise. 

CHICKEN LIVER SALAD. 

Boil livers in salted and peppered water till tender, just 
enough water to keep from burning at the last, when tender, cool, 

12 



cut — don't chop — into small pieces. Mince three slices of bacon 
fine, fry crisp, mix with liver cubes and the juice of one lemon. 
Twenty stuffed olives cut carefully in halves, add 10 English 
walnuts. (Mayonaise dressing No. i.) Place salad on nest of 
lettuce or cress. Last of all sprinkle with minced parsley. 

DANDELION SALAD. 

In the spring time every household should have this salad at 
least once a day. 

Cook tender in salt water. Cut up fine with butter, pepper 
and salt, serve with hard boiled eggs sliced over salad with lemon 
juice or vinegar. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil chicken tender, cut into small pieces with scissors, add 
four hard boiled eggs chopped, one tea cup celery cut (not 
chopped) fine; one-half cup each blanched almonds and filberts 
chopped. Serve cold and mix thoroughly with salad dressing 
No. 2. Sprigs of parsley as border around salad bowl. 

CHICKEN WIGGLE. 

Scrape all bits of chicken off bones, mince very fine, add I 
cup of peas, y 2 cup chopped peanuts (blanched), i cup white 
cream dressing. Serve with lettuce leaves and sprinkle parsley 
over all. Put sliced egg in the center of wiggle. 

PEANUT SALAD. 

Chop cup of blanched peanuts, mix with cup of cold mashed 
peas — i teaspoon mustard — dash salt and paprika, roll in riced 
c gg y°lk an d chopped parsley. Serve with water cress or lettuce 
with mayonaise. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Six cold boiled potatoes, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 sliced onion, 
I stalk chopped celery. Mix with Mayonaise No. 1. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One pint of cold creamed mashed potatoes, chop 1 onion, I 
red pepper (without seeds), mix with potato, form balls, cut 
green sweet peppers into rings, take out seeds and place a potato 
ball in each pepper ring and serve with mayonaise. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut 6 boiled potatoes into dice, chop one large sweet onion 
fine, salt and pepper to taste, mix well with potato. Make dress- 
ing of one cup sweet thick cream into which stir the juice of two 
lemons, beating rapidly; add 1 teaspoon mustard rubbed smooth 
into one tablespoon sugar and y 2 teaspoon celery seed. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Six sliced cold boiled potatoes, 1 chopped onion, 2 chopped 
sweet peppers without seeds, salt and cayenne pepper to taste; 
mix with White Cream Dresing No. 1, garnish with sliced eggs 
and sprigs of parsley for border. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Dice 6 cold boiled potatoes, chop fine 6 slices of cold, crisp 

13 



bacon, I grated onion, i large sweet pickle chopped fine ; mix 
with White Cream Dressing. Serve with water cress border on 
large salad platter. 

POTATO SALAD WITH CHEESE. 

Mash 4 large potatoes, salt to taste, beat in }4 cup rich, 
sweet cream, I spoon butter; when cold stir in 34 cup grated 
cheese, dash paprika, juice of I onion ; form balls and roll in 
chopped parsley. Serve on lettuce leaves with Cream Dressing 
in which one slice of minced bacon has been mixed. 

SWEET POTATO SALAD. 

Four diced sweet potatoes, I cup chopped peanuts, I grated 
onion, I cup Cream Sauce No. i. Serve on lettuce. 

EGG SALAD. 

Six hard boiled eggs, chilled, chop not too fine, mix l / 2 bottle 
capers, a dash of cayenne pepper, salt to taste, toss lightly with 
White Cream Sauce, sprinkle with parsley. Serve on lettuce 
hearts. 

EGG SALAD. 

Chop 6 hard boiled eggs, mix with one cup of cottage cheese, 
lightly sprinkle with parsley. Serve with White Cream Sauce 
on bed of lettuce leaves, good dash of paprika over all. 

una. CAT.AJ>. 

Cut kj Ha. vi uuiicti t^go m slices, cut up and wilt one head of 
lettuce with j4 cup each hot vinegar and bacon fat in which 4 
slices of bacon have been crisped, chop bacon fine, mix with eggs.. 
When lettuce is thoroughly wilted drain oft the vinegar ; alter- 
nating layers of lettuce, minced bacon and eggs. Serve very 
hot or very cold, as is desired. 

EGG SALAD. 

Sliced hard boiled eggs with cold picked fish with Cream 
Dressing No. 1. Makes an easy, delightful dish. Set on ice. 

EGG SALAD. 

Slice 6 cold hard boiled eggs, place cold asparagus tips in 
salad dish ; layer of Cream Dressing, layer of sliced eggs, layer 
of Cream Dressing, layer of tips, more dressing, and lastly a layer 
of eggs, dash of paprika over top and sprinkle of parsley. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Cv*- sour apples with a silver knife into dice, stand in ice 
water so ihey will not discolor ; chop 1 cup hickory nuts, 6 crisp 
radishes, 1 stalk celery ; mix with mayonaise dressing, add apples 
and serve immediately on leaves of nasturtium, garnish with buds 
and flowers. 

FISH SALAD. 

Alternate layers of any cold flaked fish, and of hard boiled 
sliced eggs with Cream Sauce and a sprinkle of chopped parsley. 
Makes a very desirable salad. 



NASTURTIUM SALAD. 

Chop I cupful green seed pods, I small onion, I bunch pars- 
ley, I stalk of celery, mix with mayonaise, garnish with slices of 
hard boiled eggs, buds and flowers for border. Serve on bed of 
tender nasturtium leaves. A beautiful and appetizing salad. 

BEAN SALAD. 

One cup cold cooked wax beans broken into inch lengths, 
one cup cold diced potatoes, one grated onion, two spoonfuls 
minced parsley. Serve with White Cream Sauce on water cress 
or lettuce. 

SHAD ROE SALAD. 

Boil 4 rolls of fish eggs in a little salt water with slice of 
onion, 4 spoons vinegar, 10 drops tobasco sauce, 15 minutes; 
cool, break apart, mix with White Cream Sauce and 1 cup of 
cold cooked potatoes ; form into balls and roll in minced parsley, 
garnish with sliced eggs and parsley. Fine. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can salmon, 4 hard boiled eggs, 1 cup cabbage. Chop 
eggs, fish and cabbage separately. Mix in juice of two lemons, 
and dash of paprika and salt. 

EGG AND FISH SALAD. 

Cut eggs in slices, mix with yolks equal parts of salmon, rub 
to paste and add salt, paprika and butter, and rub smooth with a 
spoonful of vinegar ; form and fill nests of mash potato, each with 
a ball of mixture. Place lettuce leaves in dish, put nests of potato 
and fish on leaves, put a spoonful of mayonaise on each fish ball, 
lay whites of eggs on leaves as border, placing clear cut pieces 
of jelly, any kind you fancy, in each egg ring. Serve very cold. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can shrimp, 1 small bottle capers. Mix with Cream 
Sauce No. 1 and place in lettuce nest. 

SHRIMP SALAD NO. 2. 

One can shrimps, i cup chopped celery, I cup chopped veal, 
i cup chopped nuts; Cream Dressing No. 2. Sprinkle minced 
parsley over top. 

SHRIMP SALAD NO. 3. 

Slice firm ripe tomatoes as free from seeds as possible, make 
nest in salad bowl and sprinkle with minced parsley, fill with 
shrimps mixed with Mayonaise Dressing No. 3. Garnish with 
sprigs of parsley and slices of hard boiled eggs. 

SHRIMP SALAD NO. 4. 

Mix 1 can of shrimps with one small bottle of capers, rub 
clove of garlic around salad bowl, lay in firm slices of ripe toma- 
toes free as possible from seeds, fill in with capers and shrimps 
thoroughly mixed with Mayonaise No. I. 

16 



SWEET BREAD SALAD. 

Bleach sweet-breads by boiling fifteen minutes in salted 
water, take off all membrane and bloody parts, drop into ice water 
ten minutes, then use Cream Dressing No. i to cover the sweet- 
breads. Place a hollow mould of nicely buttered cold spinach 
on chop plate, put sweet-breads in center. Serve cold, with sliced 
eggs to garnish spinach. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Thirty-six oysters cooked to curl, cool and chop, mix with 
one bottle capers. White Cream Dressing. Serve on lettuce 
hearts with lemon slices. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Chop one head of cabbage, i stalk of celery, grate one onion, 
salt and white pepper to taste, Y\ spoon tobasco sauce. Separate 
the coral in one can of lobster, mix lobster meat with cabbage, 
etc., lightly stirring in one cup mayonaise dressing; over the top 
sprigs of light celery with the lobster coral as garnish. 

HAM SALAD. 

Mince I cup boiled or fried ham, 4 hard boiled eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon celery seed, one of mustard seed, 1 spoon Worcestershire 
Sauce. Make nests of cold mashed potatoes, fill with ham heap- 
ing high, dress with mayonaise and minced parsley on lettuce. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Cut one stalk celery, 3 shallots, 4 hard boiled eggs. Mix 
with %. head of chopped cabbage, season with sauce made of 1 
cup hot vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard seed salt and pepper. 

OYSTER PEPPERS. 

Cut off small end of large sweet red peppers, remove seeds 
and veins, dip 3 or 4 plump oysters into beaten egg well seasoned 
with salt and pepper with a spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
then into cracker crumbs ; fill peppers, placing a generous piece 
of butter in each, lay slice of pepper cut from top in place, secure 
with toothpick. Set in pan of veal stock or oyster liquid we! 
seasoned and bake until peppers are tender, basting frequently. 
Serve with roasted meats or game — hot or cold. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut slice from top of peppers, scoop out center, fill with 
chopped meat seasoned highly, place in oven with a pint of stock 
from meat or with water salted and with butter added ; 1 teaspoon- 
ful to each pepper, baste frequently, serve hot or cold. 

STUFFED CREAMED PEPPER£ 

Cut top from pepper, scoop out centers, nil with creamel 
sweet breads or creamed chicken, cook in 1 pint milk in oven, 
season well with butter and salt, thicken when peppers are tender,, 

17 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 

GOLDEN SALAD DRESSING, NO. I. 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs with 1 teaspoon salt till thick ; rub to- 
gether 1 teaspoon mustard, 2 corn starch, 3 sugar, generous pinch 
of cayenne pepper, rub till thoroughly mixed. Have boiling y 2 
cup of water, ^2 cup vinegar with 2 large spoons butter. Into 
this stir your sugar, corn starch, mustard and pepper. When 
it thickens set off and stir in yolks of eggs, beating rapidly. 
This dressing is improved by cooking 1 small clove of garlic in 
vinegar five minutes or by .1 tablespoon onion juice. 

MAYONAISE FOR SALADS, MEATS, ETC. 

Pour over 3 eggs, well beaten, 4 tablespoons very hot melted 
butter. (Keep beating eggs.) Into this stir 1 cup sour cream, 
I tablespoon sugar, 34 teaspoon red pepper, 1 tablespoon mustard, 
1 tablespoon corn starch, blended, 1 tablespoon sugar, rub well 
together. Boil 1 garlic clove in 1 cup vinegar and 34 CU P of 
water for five minutes, then remove garlic. Add mixture, stirring 
briskly until it thickens over slow fire, salt to taste ; bottle. 

Just before using beat in 1 cup rich whipped cream. Will 
make salad enough for twenty people. 

MAYONAISE, NO. 2. 

Beat yolk of 4 eggs stiff with 1 teaspoon salt, add drop by 
drop 2 spoons olive oil and 1 cup vinegar. As dressing gets 
thicker while stirring in oil, add vinegar to thin. Lastly, stir in 
I spoonful onion juice, 2 spoons sugar, l /± red pepper, and 1 table- 
spoon mustard. Will keep a year. 

RED MAYONAISE. 

Save boiled lobster coral, dry and pound to a powder and 
add to Mayonaise, No. 2. Using 1 cup currant juice or straw- 
berry juice instead of vinegar, add the juice of 2 lemons. Serve 
with puffs of whipped cream on bleached lettuce hearts with 
green pepper salad. 

MAYONAISE DRESSING, NO. 3. 

To make mayonaise quickly, put on to boil in granite pan, I 
cup vinegar, l / 2 cup water, 3 tablespoons butter. Beat thoroughly 
yolks of 4 eggs. Mix very smoothly 2 tablespoons corn starch 
with Yi cup sugar, dash of paprika, teaspoon salt, tablespoon 
mustard. When the vinegar boils, stir this mixture in and remove 
from fire as soon as it thickens. Then beat in yolks of eggs. 
This can be bottled and will keep months, and is always good 
and ready to use. Add whipped cream as you use it, if desired. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

One cup sour cream, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon each salt, sugar, 
mustard, rubbed together; 1 pinch celery seed, dash of white 
pepper ; boil Y2 cup vinegar, stir in eggs and cream with seasoning 
well beaten together and remove from fire at once or as soon as 
it thickens. Add minced parsley just before serving, or finely 
chopped dill pickle, when served with fish. 

18 



SAUCES. 
"grun ravigote cream/' 
Mince very fine with meat chopper, using the finest knife, 
6 sprigs of parsley, 6 olives, 6 shallots, io spinach leaves, rub to 
a paste, strain. Add to one pint of Mayonaise No. 3. This 
makes a fine green mayonaise. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

Add to 1 cup of green mayonaise 1 tablespoon capers, 1 
tablespoon chopped gherkins, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 1 tea- 
spoon chervil, 1 tablespoon white vinegar. 

REMOULADE CREAM. 

Blend thoroughly 1 teaspoon of mustard, 1 of salt and 1 of 
white pepper, y* paprika, grated yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs, 
beaten yolk of one raw egg f 3 drops of garlic juice, 1 spoon minced 
parsley, blend with 1 cup of olive oil or melted* butter, adding 
slowly 3 spoons vinegar, beating rapidly until very light. 

WHITE FRENCH DRESSING. 

One spoon onion juice, 2 lemon juice, dash of salt and cay- 
enne pepper, 2 spoons olive oil, eight spoons white vinegar, 4 
drops garlic juice. 

WHITE FRENCH DRESSING, NO. 2. 

One cup white vinegar, i teaspoon salt, I sliced onion, % 
cup hot water, i teaspoon white pepper, boil 15 minutes, strain, 
when cool and add 1 tablespoon sugar, y 2 cup olive oil into which 
has been blended juice of two lemons. Use melted butter, if 
preferred, instead of oil, blend thoroughly, strain. Will keep 
for weeks if bottled. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter, blend in 1 tablespoon flour, adding 
slowly 1 cup of chicken or veal broth ; when smooth beat in the 
yolks of 4 eggs well beaten, 10 drops of onion juice and 1 spoon 
of lemon juice. A perfect sauce for fish. 

BORDELAISE SAUCE. 

One-half pint vinegar, 1 tablespoon chopped shallots, boil 
shallots in vinegar 15 minutes, add 1 minced red pepper, saltspoon 
of salt, spoonful of butter, }i pint Spanish sauce, % pound beef 
marrow cut in very thin slices, simmer 10 minutes. 

FISH SAUCE. 

Beat yolk of one ^gg with % teaspoon salt, 4 drops of tobasco 
sauce, 2 drops garlic juice, add slowly 1 spoonful Worcestershire 
sauce and 4 of tarragon vinegar ; bring to a boil. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Chop 1 can mushrooms fine, place to boil in 1 pint veal or 
chicken stock. For each person drop in the yolk of one hard 
boiled egg } season highly with salt, pepper and paprika. 

19 



CREAM DRESSING, NO. I. 

One pint thick sour cream, beat in the juice of I lemon, ^ 
teaspoon celery seed, l /> teaspoon white mustard seed, i dill 
pickle chopped fine, salt and pepper with strong dash of cayenne, 
I tablespoon sugar. 

CREAM DRESSING, NO. 2. 

Four well beaten eggs, i cup rich sour cream, i teaspoon 
mustard, I teaspoon sugar, I cup vinegar, i tablespoon corn 
starch. Salt to taste. Cook in double boiler till creamy, then 
beat again. Keep in cool place. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Grate two cucumbers, press water out, add salt cayenne and, 
a little whit** vinegar. Serve at once and very cold. 

CUCUMBER RELISH FOR FISH OF MEATS. 

Grate large cucumber without seeds, grate I onion, ^ spoon 
tobasco sauce, I teaspoon salt and i white pepper, juice of 2 
lemons, 1 tablespoon of olive oil blended with % cup of strong 
hot vinegar, or 1 spoon of butter if preferred ; I teaspoon sugar. 
Mix all thoroughly and serve cold. 

ONION RELISH. 

One large gra^d onion, J^ cup celery juice (grind celery and 
press juice), 1 teaspoon mustard, 10 drops tobasco sauce, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon celery seed, yolks 4 raw eggs beaten and 
blended with salt, mustard and 2 spoons melted butter or olive 
oil, 20 capers, % CU P strong vinegar. Fine for relish for venison, 
wild game, lamb, ducJ* or fresh fish. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

One bottle capers, 20 drops tobasco sauce, Y? cup strong 
vinegar, yolks of 4 raw eggs beaten stiff, with Yz teaspoon salt, 
thin with j4 cup olive oil or melted butter, adding vinegar to 
blend smoothly ; lastly adc* bottle capers. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Make cream dressing very rich, to 1 pint add 10 drops 
tobasco sauce and 1 bottle ^apers, 2 sliced eggs. Relish for 
mutton, game or fish. 

LIBERTY CAPER SAUCE. 

Pick 1 qt. of fresh greet nasturtium seeds, bring 1 qt. of 
tarragon vinegar to boil, add 1 teaspoon salt. 1 white mustard 
seed, 1 celery seed tied in muslin, when boiling hot pour over 
nasturtium seeds and seal. Us* as you do ordinary imported 
French capers. 

NASTURTIUM CAPER. 

Cover fresh green nasturtium seeds with strong salt brine, 
seal and use as capers for salad and game relish. 

2© 



MINT SAUCE. 

Fifteen bruised or shredded mint leaves, boil I cup vinegar,. 
I small teaspoon salt, 10 drops tobasco sauce, i tablespoon sugar, 
I very small clove of garlic crushed and rubbed on relish bowl; 
throw in mint leaves, pour over hot vinegar, and 5 drops onion 
juice. Serve hot with game, mutton and lamb. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Fifteen mint leaves bruished and shredded, 1 cup hot vinegar, 
1 spoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt; *4 cup sweet cream just as sent 
to table. Beat well. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Chop 50 crisp mint leaves very fine, sprinkle with sugar and 
a dash of paprika, add a little tarragon vinegar. Serve cold. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Fifteen mint leaves crushed or torn in bits, 2 spoons butter in 
frying pan, hot, but not enough to brown butter ; lay in mint 
leaves, stir and toss but do not cook, pour in y 2 cup vinegar, 1 
tablespoon sugar. Have beaten 2 eggs, white and yolks together. 
Add a dash of paprika, pour hot mixture over, beating rapidly. 
Serve hot with game, mutton, lamb or fresh fish. 

PARSLEY RELISH. 

One bunch of finely minced parsley, 1 grated onion mixed 
with y 2 cup mayonaise. Fish, lamb or game. 

DILL RELISH. 

Grind fine 1 large dill pickle, 1 teaspoon celery seed, % tea- 
spoon tobasco sauce, l / 2 cup vinegar, yolk of 2 raw eggs, 1 spoon 
butter, 1 spoon corn starch, y 2 spoon sugar. Mix all thoroughly 
and pour boiling vinegar over all. Heat if corn starch is not 
cooked. 

GOOSEBERRY RELISH. 

Cook and strain 1 pt. gooseberries. Have berries dry as 
possible. (To steam is best). Sift pulp through fine sieve, add 
1 cup chopped English walnuts, ^4 teaspoon cayenne pepper, l /z 
cup strong vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, y 2 cup sugar; boil 1 hour, 
and if not thick as catsup, stir in a teaspoon corn starch blended 
with 1 spoon vinegar. Serve cold with meat or fish. 

CRANBERRY RELISH. 

Cook 1 qt. cranberries till soft in as little water as possible 
and not burn, strain, return pulp to fire, add 1 cup of vinegar 
in which you have boiled 10 cloves 10 minutes ; remove cloves 
before adding vinegar to pulp; cook one hour, add 2 cups of 
sugar, cook 10 minutes ; bottle. Use with meats. 

SAUCES FOR SALADS A.ND MEATS FRENCH ROUX. 

This sauce, white or brown, forms foundation for many game, 
fish meat and sauces. 

21 



One bay leaf, i sprig of thyme, cook with bones of roast veal, 
turkey, chicken or veal for six hours slowly on back of stove, 
strain, return to fire; blend 2 large spoons of butter with 4 of 
flour, fry light brown and add to sauce. 

POIVARDE SAUCE. 

Mince I small slice of raw ham, 1 onion, 1 carrot and 6 
cloves, 6 pepper corns, 4 sprigs parsley, 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig of 
thyme, 1 spoonful butter. Fry minced ham in the butter for a 
moment, add minced vegetables, simmer 20 minutes, add 2 table- 
spons of tarragon vinegar, strain, press, add juice to 1 pint of 
veal stock, boil 5 minutes and skim off fat ; thicken. Serve with 
fish or game. 

OLIVE SAUCE. 

Chop one bottle stuffed olives, cook in 1 pint of clear fresh 
water, brown 2 spoons butter, pour minced olives and juice over. 
Serve with roast duck. 

SAUCE. 

To 1 pt. of poivarde add 1 teaspoon of sugar, 1 saltspoon 
cayenne, 3 tablespoons horse radish, 2 of thick, sweet cream. 

PRINCESS OYSTERS. 

Have ready on ice 1 pint of thick whipped cream. Toast 
thin slices of bread, one for each plate, butter well, and place 
4 large oysters on each slice; season with pepper and salt and 
bits of butter ; return to toasting oven. When oysters are well 
curled and frizzling hot, cover with mound of stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs seasoned with a little salt and paprika. Make a de- 
pression in center of each egg mound, return to oven, and brown 
slightly. Take from oven and carry at once to table. Let the 
host place in each egg mound 1 large spoonful of whipped cream. 
You will not have reason to regret setting this dish before your 
guests. 

OYSTER LOAF. 

Cut slice off from top of Vienna Loaf, and scoop out center. 
Butter sides thickly. Roll 1 cup crackers, add ^2 cup butter, j4 
cup sweet cream, 50 large oysters, pepper and salt to taste. Bring 
to steaming heat in granite pan. Fill loaf, laying top slice which 
was cut off in tin to toast. When edges of loaf are well toasted 
and contents bubbling hot, garnish with stuffed olives and slices of 
pickle, put on cover and serve. 

FRICASSE OF OYSTER. 

Drain and wash 50 oysters ; cook until gills curl ; drain, sav- 
ing the liquor. Add to it sufficient milk to make a pint. Put 2 
rounding tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour in a sauce pan, 
mix; add the liquor and milk, and stir until boiling. Add a 
rounding teaspoon of salt, a dash of cayenne and the oysters. 



Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 tablespoonsful of cream, stir 
them quickly in the oysters ; take from the fire and serve on toast ; 
garnish with triangular pieces of toast ; sprinkle finely chopped 
parsley over the top. 

OYSTER GUMBO. 

Cut up as for a fricasse one fowl ; put it in a baking pan ; 
add 1 onion sliced, y 2 pint of water and bake until tender. Wash 
and cut in thin slices a quart of young okra ; put it in a sauce- 
pan, add a pint of water and cook slowly for half an hour. Lift 
the chicken to a soup kettle ; add a quart of chicken stock or 
boiling water, and simmer 20 minutes. Add a rounding teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a level saltspoonful of cayenne and a teaspoonful of 
paprika. Add the okra and 50 oysters ; cover the sauce pan, cook 
for 5 minutes, and send at once to the table. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Small plump oysters, 6 to a glass. Serve with small pieces of 
cracked ice in each glass. Be sure oysters are free from water 
melted from ice; then add to each glass a tablespoonful of the 
dressing. 

For 10 glasses mix 5 tablespoonsful of each of horseradish 
and tomato catsup, juice of two lemons, dash of salt and cayenne 
pepper, and tiny bits of chopped red pepper. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL, NO. 2. 

Six oysters to each cup. Dressing with the following for 
12 people: 

Two gills gooseberry catsup, Yz cup horseradish, I tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce, I gill Tarragon vinegar, piece of ice size 
of walnut in each cup just before serving. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL, NO. 3. 

For 60 oysters use T /i pint mushroom catsup, y 2 pint grated 
mustard horseradish, juice of 3 lemons, 15 drops tobasco sauce, 
tablespoon salt. Serve with oyster fork and small spoon. 

OYSTER A LA CREOLE. 

Chop fine 2 dozen large oysters ; add 2 chopped hard boiled 
eggs, salt, pepper and a generous quantity of butter. Put in hot 
skillet, stir rapidly for one minute. Mix with 1 cup finely rolled 
cracker crumbs, J^ cup rich sweet cream. Fill pate shells, put 
pieces of butter over top, trush top with beaten salted and pep- 
pered egg, bake light brown, serve hot with minced parsley 
sprinkled over top. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Select fine large oysters. Dry on soft towel ; roll in egg 
well salted and peppered ; roll in cracker crumbs : lay on well 
buttered griddle, and broil in broiling oven two or three minutes. 
Serve on fancy pieces of toast, with pieces of lemon as garnish. 

23 



TICKLED OYSTERS. 

Bring to a boil I pint vinegar, i chopped red pepper (seeds 
rejected), I teaspoon salt, 12 cloves, 1 stick cinnamon, pour over 
2 dozen large oysters while at boiling point. When cool set on 
ice until ready to serve, place in glass dish in a bed of parsley 
with stuffed olives cut in hah ts. Serve very cold with game 
course. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Place I tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, J/£ saltspoon cay- 
enne pepper, 1 saltspoon pepper in sauce pan ; when hot lay in 
1 pint oysters washed and dried in towel ; cover the pan closely, 
shake to keep oysters from sticking, and when plump and hot 
serve on hot buttered toast. 

PHILADELPHIA FRY. 

Dip large oysters into thick mayonaise, then into bread 
crumbs, then with egg again into bread crumbs, fry in croquette 
baskets in deep fat. Serve very hot and drop 4 slices of potato 
into fat to prevent burning when you are changing baskets of 
oysters. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 

Yolk of 1 egg, 1 spoon mustard, j4 saltspoon salt and 1 
pepper blend; wipe oysters dry, coat with mixture, roll in fine 
crumbs and broil over live coals. 

BLANKET OYSTERS. 

Cut bacon thin as gauze, wrap a slice around a large oyster, 
pin with toothpicks, broil over coals or in gas oven, turn to crisp 
bacon. Dash of pepper on each. Serve on thin toast. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One qt. oysters washed and dried, 1 pt. of milk with oyster 
liquor brought to a boil, skim; season with salt, pepper and 
butter; add oysters and as soon as the first one rises to the top 
add one cup rich cream; in two minutes serve. 

GARNISHES FOR CLEAR SOUP. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Mince fine 1 cup raw veal, beef, or chicken, add 1 cup bread 
crumbs, butter the size of an egg, yolks of 2 eggs, rub smooth ; 
season highly with salt, pepper, paprika and a bit of nutmeg, 
form into tiny hard balls, drop into boiling soup 10 minutes before 
serving. 

PUFF BALLS. 

Beat together whites of 2 eggs and 4 spoons of milk, salt- 
spoon of salt, 3 spoons melted butter, a little cayenne, 1 spoon 
sugar, enough flour (into which has been sifted one teaspoon 
baking powder) to make a stiff batter, drop in boiled soup a tea- 
spoonful at a time, cover tightly and boil 10 minutes. 

24 



HAM BALLS. 

Chop very fine I cup lean ham, 4 sprigs parsley, 1 small 
onion, season with pepper, salt and cayenne, mix with cup bread 
crumbs, a little butter and 3 egg yolks ; form hard balls the size 
of English walnuts. If raw ham is used cook 15 minutes; if 
cooked ham is used, cook 10 minutes before serving. 

MARROW BALLS. 

One-half cup marrow, i l / 2 cups rolled crackers or bread 
crumbs, 3 spoons chopped parsley, 1 beaten egg, salt and liberal 
seasoning of pepper and paprika ; work to paste, form into balls, 
dropping into soup ten minutes before serving. 

SPINACH BALLS. 

Equal parts of cooked and chopped spinach, and rolled 
bread crumbs, 1 egg, season highly with salt, pepper and cayenne, 
drop into clear soup just before serving. Serve four or five balls 
to each plate. 

CELERY BALLS. 

One cup minced veal, 1 cup bread crumbs, 2 eggs, salt, cay- 
enne pepper, 1 teaspoon celery seed ; form into hard balls size of 
pecans, drop into clear soup just before serving. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

POTATOES AND CHEESE. 

Cut a slice from top of baked potatoes, scoop out the potatoes, 
being careful not to break the skin, mash, add generously thick, 
sweet cream, salt to taste. One spoonful grated cheese to each 
potato, beat very light, fill skins, sprinkle cheese over top, set in 
oven to brown. 

If sufficiently beaten they will puff up beautifully. A dainty 
luncheon, breakfast or tea dish. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Six cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, one cup grated cheese, 
salt and paprika to taste. Make white sauce. 

One pint hot milk, dash of salt and paprika, two spoons 
butter, two spoons flour, rub smooth and add to milk. Be care- 
ful not to scorch. When thickened place a layer of potatoes in 
baking dish, sprinkle thickly with cheese, cover with white sauce ; 
keep on until dish is filled with alternate layers, white sauce on 
top with cheese sprinkled over; bake 20 minutes. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES WITH CHEESE. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin, roll cup of crackers, grate cup 
of cheese, place alternate layers in baking dish with pieces of 
butter and a dash of salt and pepper. Pour over all sweet cream 
or milk to cover. Bake one hour. 

CHEESE ROLLS. 

Mash and season potatoes, roll into oblong forms, wet in 
beaten egg, season highly with salt and pepper; roll in cheese 
finely grated, fry in croquet basket in deep, hot lard, sprinkle 
with parsley and serve hot. 

25 



CREAMED POTATOES AND CHEESE. 

Cream I pint of cold potatoes diced in cream dressing, add 
Yz cup grated cheese, salt and pepper. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Whites of 4 eggs, teaspoon salt, l / 2 teaspoon paprika, grated 
cheese to thicken until you can mould into balls the size of Eng- 
lish walnuts. Place in croquett basket and submerge in boiling 
lard. Cook to a golden brown, have a sliced potato in lard to 
clarify while you cook balls. Serve hot. An elegant garnish 
with game. 

CHEESE DAINTY. 

A large tablespoon Cox's gelatine, dissolve in a little hot 
water, when cool stir in I cup whipped cream, 4 tablespoons 
grated cheese, stirred in lightly with a silver fork; salt and 
paprika l /> teaspoon each. Serve with salad dressing in little 
puffs. Sprinkle parsley over all ; set on ice until very cold. 

MEGINTY. 

One pound of crackers rolled fine, 1 cup grated cheese, 2 
pints sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, a generous piece of butter, dash 
paprika, heat in a granite pan. Nice lunch or supper. 

CHEESE OMELETTE. 

Beat 4 eggs, yolks and whites separately, season with salt 
and pepper; put 2 spoons of butter into large frying pan (steel 
preferred, sheet iron heats too quickly and endangers burning), 
pour into pan 1 cup of milk with yolks of eggs and 2 whole eggs 
well beaten together ; cook very slowly, watch, and before it is 
quite "set" sprinkle on cup of grated cheese, pour beaten whites 
over the whole ; fold together and slip out on warm platter ; 
sprinkle minced parsley over all and serve at once. 

CHEESE TOAST. 

Cheese sprinkled over bread with bits of butter and sprinkle 
of salt and paprika. Set in the oven until browned. Makes an 
appetizing lunch. 

CANAPES no. 1. 
Cut thin slices of bread in fancy shapes, butter and sprinkle 
with paprika and a dash of salt, cover with grated cheese toast 
in oven, serve with soup or salad. 

CANAPES no. 2. 
One-half pound grated cheese, yolk of 1 egg, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 tablespoon mustard, dash of paprika; rub to a smooth 
paste, spread on thin wafers or slices of bread cut in triangles, 
brown slightly in oven. 

CHEESE RELISH NO. I. 

Cup dry grated cheese mixed with 1 spoon mustard, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, generous dash paprika, J4 teaspoon celery salt, 4 
tablespoons melted butter, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 
mix well and serve in small relish jar on table. 

26 



CHEESE RELISH NO. «. 

One cup grated cheese, Yi cup each chopped peanuts, al- 
monds, English walnuts, pecans and filberts, l / 2 cup melted butter, 
]/ 2 teaspoonful cayenne pepper i teaspoon salt, I teaspoon onion 
juice ; mix thoroughly with two spoons mustard. Pot for table 
use, keep cool. Fine for sandwiches. 

CHEESE TART. 

Make pie crust and bake. Fill with custard pie filling in 
which you have stirred I cup of cottage cheese, bake and cover 
with meringue, brown slightly. 

CHEESE TARTS. 

Make paste as for cheese straws, cut into circles, place a 
circle with center cut out on top as for tarts ; bake and fill with 
jelly. Try it. 

PENNSYLVANIA CHEESE PIE. 

Make crust and bake as for custard pie, make custard of 
milk; 2 eggs, Y> cup sugar; fill baked crust with hot custard. 
Before returning to oven sprinkle y* cup grated cheese over 
custard and bake till set ; cover with beaten whites of 2 eggs and 
2 spoons of sugar, return to oven and brown slightly. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Mince 1 cup of veal fine, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 cup cracker 
crumbs, 1 cup cheese, salt, pepper, milk enough to mix into dough 
which will mould well ; roll into oblong forms, fry in deep lard 
in croquett baskets. Serve with jelly; garnish. 

CHEESE PIQUANT. 

Minced parsley ^ cup, melted butter 4 spoons, cayenne 
pepper 34 teaspoon, salt Yi teaspoon, grated cheese 1 cup, form 
tiny balls and roll in minced parsley. Serve with meat pies, oyster 
pies, chicken and dumplings, cold roast meat, but never with fried 
or broiled meats. 

ICES. 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM. 

Take 1 quart fresh milk, scald, stir in yolks of 4 eggs, ^2 box 
gelatine (dissolved), 2 cups sugar, stir constantly till thoroughly 
hot, cool, then pour in freezer, add beaten whites of eggs, 1 pt. 
rich sweet cream, 2 teaspoons vanilla, freeze. 

PEACH CREAM. 

Six large ripe peaches, 1 cup sugar, mash peaches into sugar, 
put in freezer and turn 10 minutes, add the whites of 3 eggs beaten 
stiff, and 1 pt. of rich cream, freeze. 

RED RASPBERRY CREAM. 

To the juice of 2 quarts of berries, add the juice of 2 oranges, 
1 lemon, 2 cups sugar, put in freezer and turn 10 minutes or till 
it begins to stiffen well, add 1 pint thick sweet cream, whites of 
4 beaten eggs. 

27 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

One quart sweet milk, 2 cups sugar, l /\ cup dissolved Cox's 
gelatine, scald and cool, turn in freezer 15 minutes, add grated 
pineapple which has been cooked in cup sugar 10 minutes and 
cooled, turn till stiff, add 2 pt. cream, turn 15 times. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One pint sweet milk, ]/ 2 cake grated sweet chocolate, yolk of 
■aid and cool, 2 cups sweet milk, iy 2 cups sugar, whites 
of eggs beaten stiff, freeze. 

MAPLE VELVET. 

One pint of maple syrup, whites of 4 eggs, ]/ 2 box Cox s 
gelatine, dissolve in 1 pint warm water, 1 quart thick sweet cream, 
freeze. Serve with bright autumn leaves from maple trees on 
plate. 

CARAMEL CREAM. 

One pint brown sugar placed in hot skillet, stir till rich 
brown, do not burn, add 1 pint water when the sugar is dissolved. 
The syrup should be bright amber color. Add 34 bottle vanilla, 
1 quart rich cream or milk, freeze. Serve with small branches 
of bitter sweet berries on plate. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

With the finest knife or meat chopper cut the fresh peel of 
* oranges, cook 10 minutes in 1 cup sugar with 1 cup water, cool) 
add 1 pint milk and 1 pint of cream, freeze. Delicious. 

ORANGE FRAPPE. 

Juice of 12 oranges, 2 lemons, 1 pineapple, 8 pounds sugar 
boiled in 1 pint water till it makes good syrup, enough coloring 
matter to make yellow, yolks of six eggs added to cooled syrup, 
freeze. Serve with yellow jonquils on plate, yellow butter cups, 
yellow roses, yellow pansies or nasturtiums. 

APPLE FRAPPE. 

Cook dark red apples with the skins on, strain juice and add 
a few drops of cochineal, one pound of sugar to one quart of 
juice, juice of 4 lemons, freeze. Serve in cut glass cups with 
apple or crabapple blossoms on plate. 

BANANA FRAPPE. 

Cook 6 bananas in 1 pound sugar and 1 quart water, strain 
and cool, add juice of 1 pineapple, 2 oranges, 1 lemon, freeze. 
Serve with pale yellow tulips on each plate. 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE. 

Grate 1 pineapple, juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon, boil I 
pound of sugar, 2 cups of water 10 minutes, add juice and bring 
to boil, cool, freeze to soft snow. Serve in sherbert glasses. 

RASPBERRY ICE. 

Juice of 1 quart berries, 2 lemons, 1 pound sugar, freeze. 
Serve with a spray of berries with foliage laid on plate beside 
punch cup. Cut the stems long enough to show red wood and 
thorns as well as foliage and berries. By all means a spray of 

28 



flowers if posible. Keep these in ice box crisp until serving, and 
just before laying on plate dip in ice water to carry the effect of 
dew. Use strawberries or currants if desired and branches of 
currants to decorate. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 

Dissolve Yi box Cox's gelatine in I cup warm water; cook 
till it hairs from spoon, cook I grated pineapple 10 minutes in I 
cup sugar, press, strain, add to juice of 2 oranges, freeze, when 
nearly stiff add I quart whipped cream, beaten white of 3 eggs, 
freeze. For strawberry mousse use berries in place of pineapple. 

DELMONICO AMBROSIA. 

Grated pineapple, pulp of 3 oranges finely shredded, citron 
34 pound, 1 cup blanched almonds chopped fine, 1 pint sugar, 
beaten whites of 4 eggs, freeze. Serve in sherbet cup with large 
mound of whipped cream on top with three candied violets or 
cherries. If violets, use scattered fresh violets on plate around 
sherbet cup; if cherries, use cherry or apple blossoms. 

CHERRY ICE. 

One quart of cherry juice, 1 pound sugar, juice of 2 large 
oranges, freeze. Serve in sherbet cups with short branch of 
cherry foliage and fruit clusters on plate, blossoms if possible. 

COFFEE ICE. 

Three cups strained strong coffee, 1 cup sugar. *-°eze. When 
nearly frozen put in 1 pint rich sweet cream, freeze, oerve with 
whipped cream on top in sherbet glasses. Lay bronze nasturtium 
blossoms on plates, or black-eyed Susans, or deep purple and 
bronze pansies, or bronze tulip. 

CRANBERRY ICE. 

Scald 1 quart of cranberries until they pop and mash easily, 
squeeze, strain, add juice of 2 oranges and 1 pineapple, 2 pounds 
sugar, beaten whites of 4 eggs, freeze. Serve in sherbet cups 
with clove pinks, or holly berries on plate. 

GOOSEBERRY ICE. 

Strain 1 quart scalded gooseberries, juice of 4 cooked apples, 
into 1 quart of sugar. Add ^ pound shredded citron, 1 teaspoon 
green coloring, fluid obtained by druggist or confectioner and 
perfectly harmless. Use enough to make definite green, freeze. 
A dainty dish. Serve in cut glass sherbet cups. 

THREE WAYS OF MAKING PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 
NO. I. 

One quart pure sweet cream, 1 large teacup sugar, 1 small 
tablespoon vanilla, freeze. Gives snowy texture. 

no. 2. 

Whip 1 quart of cream until you have taken off 1 quart of 
stiff cream, set immediately on ice, mix sugar and flavoring with 
the unwhipped cream, and freeze nearly solid, add the whipped 
cream, turn in freezer until stiff. This gives a featherly light 
^ream very delicate in texture. 

29 



NO. 3. 

Be sure your cream is perfectly fresh, and to 1 quart add 1 
teaspoon of lime water, sugar and flavoring to taste, heat in a 
double boiler to a scalding point, cool and freeze. This gives a 
heavy, rich velvety cream. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

Beat separately 4 eggs, beat 1 cup of sugar into the yolks, 
add beaten whites and flavoring, scald 1 quart cream in double 
boiler, stir in the egg mixture, beating rapidly, cook to consis- 
tency of soft custard, cool and freeze. 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. 

Make Neapolitan Ice Cream, just before it stiffens add a pi*>v 
of Maraschino cherries, 20 drops of almond extract, turn freezer 
5 times and let it stand. When serving cream pour a spoonful 
of Maraschino liquor over each dish of cream. Serve with cherry 
blossoms and foliage on plates. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Grate 1 ripe pineapple, juice of 1 orange, iy2 cups of sugar, 
make Neapolitan Ice Cream, freeze nearly stiff, add fruit and 
stiffen. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 

To I quart of Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 3 add 1 quart of 
raspberries, either black, yellow or red, turn until stiff. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM. 

To 1 quart of Neapolitan Ice Cream add 1 cup of sifted 
apricots, y 2 cup blanched almonds chopped, freeze. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Boil 1 cup sugar, 1 cup rich sweet cream 10 minutes, add 
1 cup warm water in which y 2 box of gelatine has been dissolved, 
20 drops of vanilla, 20 drops bitter almond, 1 cup blanched mixed 
nuts, 1 cup candied cherries, % pound shredded citron, lastly 2 
cups fresh sweet cream and 1 cup sugar, freeze. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM NO. 2. 

To quart of Neapolitan Ice Cream add i cup chopped nuts, 
)i pound shredded citron, % pound chopped figs, % pound 
chopped dates, I cup candied cherries, % pound finely cut orange 
peel; freeze. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Any delicate cake with the center cut out, leaving an inch 
thick wall on bottom and side and filled with Tutti Frutti Ice 
Cream makes a "Frozen Pudding." Serve with fluffy mounds 
of whipped cream. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Blanch i pint of chestnuts, boiJ ^ hour, mash and ml* 
through a sieve, add them to I quart or awcxt rich cream in double 
boiler, stir in whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, cool, add 1 cup of 
candied cherries, ]/ A pound of shredded citron, % pound of 

30 



blanched and chopped almonds, 20 drops almond extract, 20 drops 
vanilla, 20 drops of rose, freeze. Serve with whipped cream. 

NABISCO BISQUE. 

To Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 3 add 1 cup of finely crumbed 
nabisco wafers of any flavor desired; freeze and serve with 
whipped cream. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

When Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 3 is nearly frozen stir in 
I dozen macaroons pounded or rolled fine, flavor with bitter al- 
mond. Serve with salted almonds and whipped cream. 

MERINGUE GLACE. 

Serve Philadelphia Ice Cream in Meringue shells with fluffy 
mound of whipped cream. 

CREME DE MENTHE. 

One quart rich cream, 1 cup sugar, liquor from bottle of 
Creme de Menthe cherries ; freeze. Just before the cream is stiff 
kdd cherries. 

PINEAPPLE "FLUMMERY. - " 

Dissolve 1 box of Cox gelatine in y 2 cup water, add to this 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar, Yi teaspoon vanilla, grated 
rind of 1 lemon, set to cook in double boiler till thickened. Cool, 
stir in strained juice of 1 pineapple. Beat to a frothy lightness, 
add 1 pint of whipped cream stirred in well just as flummery is 
getting stiff. Set to "form" in mould packed in ice. Serve with 
whipped cream. Any fruit juice makes good flummery. 

PUNCH SHRUBS AND VINEGARS. 

PUNCH DE MENTHE. 

Two pounds of loaf sugar, 1 small bottle of creme de menthe 
cherries, 1 crushed pineapple, juice of 4 lemons, pulp and juice 
of 6 oranges, pour over cracked ice, let stand 20 minutes and just 
before serving add 2 quart bottles of apollinaris water. Serve 
in punch glasses with tooth picks. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Crush and bring to boil Concord grapes, strain, bottle aad 
seal. Serve with cracked ice. 

GRAPE NECTAR. 

To I bottle of grape juice add the juice of 1 lemon, 1 orange, 
1 cup of pineapple juice and pulp, 1 cofTee cup of sugar, pour over 
chopped ice. Serve in sherbet cups with spoonful of whipped 
cream. Serve with small spoons. 

APOLLINARIS NECTAR. 

One ground pineapple, stand 4 hour in 2 cups of sugar, juice 
and pulp of 4 oranges, juice of 4 lemons, pour over 1 quart of 
cracked ice. Just before serving add 4 pint bottles of apollinaris 
water. 



VICHY PUNCH. 

Add to juice of 4 oranges and 10 lemons, 3 pounds of loaf 
sugar, 50 pistachio nuts, 50 maraschino cherries, 6 candied mint 
leaves broken, 1 quart crushed ice, 5 pint bottles of vichy just 
before serving. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH. 

Juice of 4 quarts strawberries, juice and pulp of 1 crushed 
pineapple, 2 pounds sugar, juice of 4 lemons, 1 quart cracked ice, 

2 quarts of vichy, just before serving. Place 3 bright firm straw- 
berries in each cup. Serve with tooth picks. 

POMEGRANATE PUNCH. 

Juice of 12 pomegranates, 4 oranges, 1 pineapple, 2 lemons, 
1 pint of sugar syrup in which has been boiled 1 stick of cinnamon 
and 6 cloves, then add 1 quart of vichy, pour on cracked ice. 

NEAPOLITAN PUNCH. 

Cut 6 lemons in very thin slices, juice and pulp of 4 oranges, 

3 pounds of loaf sugar, % ounce of cloves, 34 ounce stick cinna- 
mon, 1 pound seeded raisins chopped, pour over them 2 gallons 
of Buffalo Lithia water, stir daily for 5 days, strain and bottle. 
Serve with cracked ice. 

LEMON NECTAR. 

Slice 6 lemons, 2 oranges, chop 1 pound raisins, 2 sticks cin- 
namon, 15 cloves, 1 ounce of sassafras, place in jar with 2 pounds 
rock candy, pour over 2 gallons of boiling water, cover over with 
cheese cloth, let stand one week in cool place, stirring daily, strain 
through several folds of cheese cloth, bottle for use. 

GINGER PUNCH. 

Cook % pound ginger root, 1 pint of water till tender, strain 
and add 2 pounds of sugar, cook 10 minutes, cool ; crack 10 
pounds of ice, squeeze juice from 2 dozen oranges, 6 lemons ; use 
1 bottle maraschino cherries, pour over the fruit juice and ice, add 
ginger syrup. 

mint punch 
Bruise 50 mint leaves, juice of 12 oranges, 1 cup Cantoit 
ginger water strained from % pound Canton ginger, cooked ii\ 
water with 10 cloves, 3 sticks cinnamon, 4 pounds sugar; tea/ 
mint leaves in small bits ; or use only tips of mint stalks, if pos 
sible. When stalks are used crush them, but do not tear. Mixi 
cool, pour over cracked ice. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH. 

Scald 5 quarts strawberries, press out juice, strain; add 1 
pound sugar for every quart berries ; juice of 2 lemons, 6 orange* 
1 grated pineapple, 1 quart fresh, firm, dark red berries. The 
last thino- before serving pour over 10 pounds cracked ice. Fof 
grape nunch use grapes instead of strawberries. Serve with 
toothpicks. 

32 



ORANGE PUNCH FOR TWENTY PEOPLE. 

Juice of 6 lemons, pulp and juice of 2 dozen oranges, 3 
pounds sugar, 1 bottle maraschino cherries, 10 pounds of cracked 
ice. Served from punch bowl with toothpicks to lift cherries. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

Two grated pineapples, juice of 6 oranges, 6 lemons, 3 pounds 
sugar boiled 10 minutes in water to dissolve, cool and pour over 
fruit ; add 10 pounds cracked ice. 

RED OR BLACK RASPBERRY PUNCH. 

Juice 3 quarts berries, 3 pounds sugar, strain juice 6 lemons, 
I quart fresh berries added after the punch has stood on the ice 
for 20 minutes. Serve with toothpicks. 

SASSAFRAS SHRUB. 

To 1 pound 01 sassafras root boiled in 2 gallons of water add 
1 pint of New Orleans molasses, rind of 4 lemons, y^ pound of 
cloves, 34 pound stick cinnamon, cover with cheese cloth, and let 
stand in cool place 5 days, strain, add % pound tartaric acid and 
bottle. To serve place % teaspoonful carbonate of soda in ^ 
glass water and chipped ice, stir, pour in % glass of shrub and 
drink while effervescing. A splendid drink for Spring mornings 
before eating. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Place raspberries in stone jar and cover with cider vinegar, 
let stand over night; in the morning strain and press. To each 
quart of juice add 1 quart of sugar, boil and bottle. Serve with 
cracked ice. All berries can be used for shrub in like manner, 
giving a delightful variety of refreshing summer drinks. 

DANDELION CORDIAL. 

One peck of dandelion blossoms, 3 pounds brown sugar, 3 
gallons boiling water, 3 sliced oranges, 3 lemons, crush fruit and 
cover with sugar; add 25 cloves, 6 sticks of cinnamon, put in 
stone jar, pour on boiling water, stand 6 days in warm place, stir 
frequently, strain and return to jar, add 1 cake of compressed 
yeast, cover with cheese cloth and when perfectly clarified, bottle. 
For elderberry cordial use elderberry blossoms in place of dande- 
lions. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

To I quart of blackberry juice add 6 sticks of cinnamon, 50 
cloves, boil with 1 pint of sugar 10 minutes, l /% ounce ginger root; 
bottle for use in sickness. 

VINEGARS FOR SALADS. 

TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

Add a handful of fresh tarragon leaves to a quart of vinegar, 
shake frequently, let stand two weeks, strain, and bottle for salads. 

33 



HICKORYNUT TARTS. 

Use maccaroon mixture for hickory nut cakes lining tart 
moulds, bake and when brown well, fill with the follwoing mix- 
ture: 

$4 cup of peanut butter, y 2 cup sweet cream, y 2 cup sugar, 

1 «up chopped dates, juice of I lemon, 2 well beaten eggs, fUt 
tarts and return to oven, and when "set" cover with meringue. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

a cups of sugar, y 2 teaspoonful soda in 5 tablespoons sour 
cream, 1J/2 cups butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
flour enough to make soft dough. 

EGGLESS COOKIES. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, >4 
baking powder, 1 teaspoonful almond extract, flour to make soft 
dough, roll and bake in quick oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

3 cups molasses, boil 10 minutes, add 1 cup hot water, 2-3 
cup butter, 3 teaspoons ginger, 2 teaspoons soda ; cool ; 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder in flour enough to mix to soft dough, roll 
thin and bake in quick oven. 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

2 e gg s > 3 CU P S brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sour cream, 

2 scant teaspoons soda. Flour to roll, and flavor to taste. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 4 tablespoons sweet 
cream, 1 baking powder, (dissolved in a little warm water), 1 cup 
raisins, 1^2 cups chopped walnuts, 3^ cups flour. Drop by 
spoonfuls one inch apart on buttered tins. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

1 cup grated cheese, y 2 scant cup butter, 1 cup flour, y 2 tea- 
spoon salt, y% teaspoon paprika, yolk of 1 egg t 2 tablespoons 
milk or water. Knead ingredients well together, roll out crust 
% inch thick, cut in narrow strips about four or five inches long, 
twirl into twisted straws, lay on wet dripping pan, not touching 
each other, and bake in quick oven. Very dainty with salads. 

POTATO FRIED CAKES. 

1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 large cup sugar, 1 cup of milk, 2 
tablespoons shortening, 2 eggs, 3 teaspoons of baking powder, 
salt and nutmeg flour to make soft dough. 

MARGUERITES. 

Beat whites of 2 eggs stiff, cup sugar, chopped nuts. Spread 
on wafer crackers, brown slightly. 

MAPLE SYRUP. 

1 pint of sugar in dry skillet, stir till brown thorougWy, add 
1 cup water, boil till right thickness. 1 teaspoon vanilla. Will 
not granulate. 

No. 2. Boil 6 corn cobs 2 hours in quart of water. Strain 
water over 1 pint of sugar, boil to a syrup. Try it, it is excellent. 



INDIA VINEGAR. 

To I gallon of white vinegar add 10 small pepper corns, I 
ounce of mustard seed, 2 tablespoons salt, 1 cup of horseradish, 
50 nasturtium seeds (fresh), 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig of mint, stir 
frequently, let stand 5 days, strain and bottle for salads and cold 
meats. 

MARMALADE. 

Five quarts currants, 5 pounds sugar, 1 pound raisins, 2 
boxes red raspberries, 1 orange. Cook currants and strain as for 
jelly, boil juice and add sugar, raisins and berries. Last of all 
ndd orange which has been cooked in a little sugar. Seal as usual 
A jelly cups. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Slice 5 oranges and 2^2 lemons very thin ; peel 3 oranges and 
squeeze their juice with juice of 2^ lemons; add sliced fruit, to 
every pound 1 small cup of water ; stand 24 hours, cook till tender ; 
add weight of fruit in white sugar; cook 40 minutes. Put in 
jelly glasses. 

CANDIES. 

FRENCH FONDANT. 

Use equal parts of thick sweet cream and white of egg un- 
beaten stir in enough XXXX confectioner's sugar (use no other) 
to make dough to mould. Here you have the body of all delicious 
feam candies. Any reliable druggist will procure for you abso- 
iutely pure vegetable coloring fluids at 10 cents per bottle ; enough 
to last 10 years. -This cream candy is a real delight because no 
cooking is needed. 

Fondant used to stuff dates, figs and nuts and for an endless 
variety of chocolate creams, nut rolls, nougat, fruit loaf, etc. 

Boiled Fondant forms the basis for nearly all cream candies. 
Use pure granulated sugar, XXXX. Be careful not to get blue 
looking moist sugar, for this is beet sugar, and will not make 
good fondant. A rainy day you will not have success as on a 
clear, cool day. 

BOILED FONDANT. 

One pint sugar, milk or water to dissolve, boil till spoonful 
dropped into cold water makes a firm ball, not crisp. Set dish 
immediately in pan of cold water. When it begins to cool nicely 
beat to a cream, mould into a loaf and set away in a cool place to 
ripen. Should you desire candies at once, this is not necessary. 
If you wish to use different flavors and colors, while still beating 
to a cream add colors and flavors before you mould into loaves ; 
also chopped nuts and candied cherries for nut creams ; chopped 
iigs and dates for fruit creams, etc. As you may seek variety, 
form candies into blocks, rolls, cones or wafers. 

Now you are ready for almost any variety of cream candy. 

CHOCOLATE FOR DIPPING. 

Use equal parts of Walter Baker's unsweetened chocolate and 
fondant. Melt in granite dish set in hot water, add 1 spoonful 



of melted paraffine to chocolate, beat thoroughly while hot, roll 
candies in chocolate, and with a dexterous turn of the wrist, pick 
up and lay quickly on paraffine paper. You can make a large 
sheet of this yourself by brushing melted paraffine over white 
wrapping paper. Never mind if you do get your hands "rather 
mussy," it is far quicker done than using a fork. However, 
please yourself. Cover fruit or nut loaf. 

Note. — I find to be absolutely sure of good results I must 
use Walter Baker's chocolate for candies. It is certainly sure as 
well as pure and you cannot get good results with an adulterated 
product. 

AFTER DINNER MINTS. 

One pound granulated sugar, i cup of water in which I table- 
spoon of gum arabic has been dissolved, add Yz teaspoon pure 
cream tartar, boil until it will form ball in water ; add I teaspoon 
essence of peppermint (more, if you want them strong), pour 
out on marble slab and let cool till you can handle easily; pull 
till creamy white, form into even sticks, mark by pressing silver 
knife into sections. 

Cover up in a box for a day or two, when they will be creamy 
and will be easily parted where sections are marked. 

WINTER GREEN MINTS. 

Make as above, using a few drops of pink or green coloring 
and 10 drops oil of wintergreen to flavor. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pint XXXX granulated sugar, i tablespoon butter, I 
tablespoon vinegar, y 2 teaspoon cream tartar, I small cup cold 
water, mix, put on fire and do not stir ; when it hairs pour into 
buttered pan and mark into squares. Cover tightly (after it is 
cold) for a day or two, it will be dry and yet creamy. 

MARSH MALLOWS. 

To I pound of XXXX granulated sugar add ]/ A pound of 
white gum arabic dissolved in I quart of water and strained care- 
fully. Put in granite pan over slow fire, stir constantly until it 
is about as thick as ordinary molasses ; add the well beaten whites 
of 8 eggs ; flavor with vanilla or bitter almond ; stir until it does 
not stick to the fingers, pour into a dripping pan filled with corn 
starch into which you have pressed a square block, leaving mould 
for candy ; drop spoonful into each mould, or, if preferred, dust 
pan with corn starch, pour in marsh mallow and as it cools mark 
into squares and roll in starch. 

Dip in chocolate if desired. 

NUT GLACE. 

Cook I cup best granulated sugar, % cup water, paraffine 
size of hickory nut until it hairs from spoon ; set off the stove and 
drop a cupful of nuts into syrup, picking them out quickly and 
laying on paraffine paper. Be sure that your nuts are in perfect 
halves, use English walnuts, hickory nuts, pecans. If Brazil nuts 
or almonds, blanch and use whole nut. For cocoanut, cut into 
long, slender strips. 

36 



VIOLET GLACE. 

Take fresh double violets, have I cup sugar dissolved in 
water and boiled until it threads in heavy threads from spoon ; 
dip in violets, covering stem, throw on a shower of fine granu- 
lated sugar as you lift to parafnne paper to dry ; cut off tip of 
stem you have held. Lay away in dry sugar. 

ROSE LEAF GLACE. 

Select heavy, velvety rose petals and dip into syrup as for 
violets, lay in granulated sugar and dust sugar over ; lift care- 
fully to parafnne paper. 

MINT GLACE. 

Select large, fresh mint leaves, and fresh young stalks with 
clusters of leaves, wash thoroughly, shake dry, lay on ice to crisp. 
Dip quickly into syrup glace, dust thoroughly with granulated 
sugar, place on parafirne paper to dry, lay away in dry granulated 
sugar. 

Excellent with after-dinner bon bons. Do not fail to make 
this in the spring when mint is plenty and fresh. 

PENNYROYAL GLACE. 

Prepare and make the same as mint glace, dipping tender 
stems, leaves and even young blosoms into glace syrup. 

SALIMAGUNDI. 

To finish up the last of syrup for nut or fruit glace, place 
in buttered pan an assortment of chopped fruit, figs, dates, can- 
died cherries, seedless raisins, orange straws and nuts scattered 
carelessly through dish, bring syrup to a crackling point and pour 
over fruit and nuts ; cut into blocks when nearly cold. 

PINEAPPLE GLACE. 

Cut slices of pineapple Y\ inch thick, stand slices up on edge 
where sunshine and air will circulate through them until the 
surface is dried over. Put on to boil 2 cups sugar and ^4 CU P 
©f water with parafnne size of hickory nut, boil without moving 
or stirring until syrup threads from spoon. Run a wire through 
slices of pineapple twisting ends together forming a loop, dip 
each slice into syrup, withdraw and hang slices to drain on stick, 
suspend over dish to catch drippings, let wind blow on them but 
do not let slices touch. When dry and cold lay in layers of 
granulated sugar. Set syrup away, covered tightly, for future 
use. 

GLACE ORANGE RINGS. 

Slice 6 oranges 1-3 inch thick in order to get peel in un- 
broken rings, remove pulp, boil peel in salt water ten minutes. 
Boil in gallon of clear water till tender changing twice to remove 
salt taste. Make sugar syrup to crackling point, add rings and 
boil ten minutes, dip out carefully and roll in course granulated 
sugar. Very ornamental to serve as bon bon, also to bind mint- 
balls. 

37 



ORANGE GLACE. 

Peel, separate oranges into sections without breaking thin 
skin, place them where the air will strike them. When the skin 
becomes tissue like, string sections on wire loops and proceed 
exactly as in pineapple glace. After taking from syrup, dust 
with granulated sugar, if desired. Hang up to dry, when cool 
pack in sugar. 

Re careful not to tear fruit with wire. Better than to pierce 
fruit, twist wire around it if possible as this prevents the escape 
of juices. 

CREAMS. 

The syrup used for (lipping fruit is then beaten to a creamy 
dough, moulded into cones and rolled in chopped nuts, or granu- 
lated sugar with a pecan meat pressed into top, or an English 
walnut, or made into oblong rolls and used to stuff dates. 

ROSE PETALS. 

Oil egg cups, stick to the sides heavy rose petals completely 
lining cups, 12 petals to each cup, lay in center 3 loosely placed 
English walnuts, pour hot syrup at the crackling point over the 
edges where it will bind petals, lightly string a little of the spun 
syrup over the nuts, heat very slightly to take out of mould. 

A very dainty bon bon if carefully made. 

CANDIED VIOLETS. 

Rub egg cups lightly with olive oil into which a few drops 
of vanilla has been blended, place a dozen violets in each cup 
twining them with their stems, leaving a little nest in the center, 
fill with blanched almonds, 6 nuts to each nest, boil 1 cup sugar 
to the crackling point, dip 3 spoonfuls of syrup into each cup 
covering the violets, when cold turn out and serve in bon bon 
dish. 

MINT BALLS. 

Wind mint stems and leaves around English walnuts which 
have been blanched, bind them with a ring of candied orange 
peel, have ready a pint of sugar syrup boiled to the crackling 
point, pick up balls on wire or skewer pins, immerse in syrup 
thoroughly covering all mint leaves, be sure syrup is very thick 
and mint leaves bound into firm ball by orange ring which has 
been previously candied. When all is perfectly glazed with 
syrup lay on oil paper and set in cold draught to cool and harden. 
If necessary dip again. A most elegant after dinner bon bon. 

CANDIED GINGER. 

Boil Canton Ginger root till tender, changing water six times. 
To 1 pound of ginger add 1 pound of sugar, boil till it hairs, roll 
ginger in granulated sugar and pack with layer of sugar in stone 
jar. 

MINT CUPS. 

Weave mint leaves and stems into a nest firmly twisted so 
that they will not separate, place these in buttered cups, fill mint 
nests with blanched hickory nuts crowding them closely, pour 

38 



syrup at crackling point over them and around the edges so that 
mint nests are fully covered and bound together. Do not make 
a heavy candied ball of this, use about three spoonfuls of syrup 
only and mostly on the mint to bind it together. 

NUT LOAF. 

To i pound of fondant flavored with almond add % pound 
each of blanched almonds, pecans, hickory nuts, English wal- 
nuts, filberts and Brazil nuts; cut nuts in small pieces but do not 
chop. For beauty of loaf add % pound each of candied cherries, 
citron and candied orange peel. Mould into a loaf, cover with 
chocolate if desired. If not press nuts and a few cherries and 
orange peel on top and roll in coarse granulated sugar. 

For Fruit Loaf leave out nuts. 

NUT CARAMELS. 

2 cups molasses, i of brown sugar, butter size of an egg, I 
cup of cream, cook till it hairs, then add I teaspoonful essence of 
almond, I of vanilla and i cup of chopped hickory nuts, I cake 
of Walter Baker's Sweet Chocolate. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Equal parts of New Orleans molasses and granulated sugar, 
to y 2 pound each use j4 cup butter, 2 tablespoons vinegar, y 2 
teaspoon soda, cook till very brittle without stirring, pour on a 
shallow buttered pan, cut in squares and drip in square of paraf- 
fine paper. 

CHEWING TAFFY. 

3 cups of granulated sugar y 2 cup each water and vinegar, 
paraffine size of English walnut, butter size walnut, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar; do not stir; boil till it hairs; pour on slab till cool 
enough to handle, pull till white and cut in strips. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

2 cups brown sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup white vinegar, 
boil until it cracks in ice water, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, cool and 
cut in squares. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 

One pint sugar, y 2 cup cream, y 2 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
butter the size of an egg, boil 1 5 minutes, do not stir, 1 teaspoon 
of nectar or vanilla, pour in pan to cool, cut in squares. 

FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup milk, y 2 lb. Walter Baker's Sweet 
Chocolate grated, butter the size of an egg, y 2 teaspoonful of 
vanilla, boil until it makes soft ball in water, take from fire and 
stir, pour in shallow pan, mark in squares. 

fudge no. 2. 
One lb. maple sugar, 1 sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful vanila, J4 
cup butter, boil till it will form soft ball, beat rapidly, turn into 
shallow pan, cut into squares. 

39 



FUDGE NO. 3. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup thick, sweet cream, Yi lb. chocolate, 
boil until it makes a soft ball in the water, stir in 1 cup chopped 
nuts, turn out and cut in squares, 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

( foe cup brown sugar, dry in skillet, place over fire and 
stir and stir until sugar is melted and browned a bright amber 
color, add 1 cup chopped peanuts, stir until it begins to grain. 

STUFFED DATES. 

Remove the stone, fill the date with fondant into which has 
been folded a pecan nut. Do not quite close the date but leave 
a line of white fondant showing. Roll in coarse granulated sugar. 

STUFFED FIGS. 

Open steamed figs at stem end, fill with chopped nuts, mix 
with fondant and roll in granulated sugar. 

SALTED WALNUTS, FILBERTS AND ALMONDS. 

Blanch nuts, dip each nut in melted butter, sprinkle with 
salt and a light dash of paprika, set in hot oven, brown, turn 
over and sprinkle in more salt, turn over and brown slightly. 

PICKLED BUTTER NUTS AND WALNUTS. 

Pick green nuts the last of June, make brine strong enough 
to hold an egg, cover nuts with brine for 6 days, wash off brine, 
cover with boiling vinegar, add 1 cup of brown sugar, 1 ounce 
of cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 1 of mustard, 1 ground nutmeg. Let 
stand three days, throw away the vinegar and prepare fresh vine- 
gar in the same way, heat to boiling point, add 1 teacup of ground 
horse radish, % pound of ginger root, place nuts in stone jar 
and cover with vinegar. Repeat three days ; heat, seal. 

CAKES. 

Always use winter wheat flour for cakes. 

These cake recipes are carefully tested, and are suited to 
every need in any household, more attention having been given 
to the compiling of a few of the best, rather than a large number 
of ordinary cakes. 

The Economist can here find her delight, as well as the am- 
bitious matron wishing to serve choice viands. In testing cakes 
I used Royal Baking powder only, finding it absolutely reliable. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

iy 2 cups apple sauce, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup seed- 
less raisins, y 2 cup butter, 1 tablespoon hot water, 2 teaspoons of 
soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves. An elegant cake. 
Make apple sauce as for table use, strained and sweetened. 

EGGLESS FRUIT CAKE. 

i J / 2 teacups of light brown sugar, 3 level cups of flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 cup sour milk in which has been dis- 



solved i small teaspoon soda, y 2 cup butter creamed with sugar, 
Y* teaspoon each cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, i cup chopped 
citron dredged with flour. 

SPICE CAKES. 

I cup brown sugar, I cup sour milk, I cup raisins, 2 cups 
liw.ir, 4 level teasponsful butter, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmegs, soda and baking powder. Good. 

INEXPENSIVE FRUIT CAKE, EGGLESS. 

I cup sugar, white or brown ; 1 scant ]/i cup of shortening, 
I cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda in milk, \y 2 cups flour, 
one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, ]/ 2 teaspoonful each of cloves 
and allspice; fruit, y 2 cup each (currants, raisins, citron and figs 
if desired) rolled in l /$ cup flour and 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

EGGLESS PLUM CAKE. 

Cream 1-3 of a cup of buttei with a cupful of light brown 
sugar, add 24 of a cupful of sour milk, y 2 teaspoonful of baking 
soda, ]/ 2 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and all- 
spice, y 2 cupful of raisins (dredged with flour) and 2 heaping 
cups of flour to which a pinch of baking powder has been added. 
Bake for 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

EGGLESS WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, 1^2 cups pine apple, stewed, 
sweetened and chopped fine, 1 cup white raisins, y cup chopped 
citron, *4 cup blanched and chopped almonds, 2 teaspoons soda ; 
rub fruit and nuts together with one tablespoon flour into which 
sift 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2 cups flour, dissolve soda in I 
tablespoon hot water. Dainty cake — never fails. 

EGGLESS COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup cold strong coffee, y 2 lb. citron, 1% 
brown sugar, 5 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves 
and soda dissolved in coffee, dash salt, 1 cup butter, 1 lb. seedless 
raisins, 1 currants, cup nuts, 1 cup dates and figs mixed, 10 gum 
drops. Elegant Xmas cake. Mature 3 weeks before Xmas. 

EGGLESS "TEA" CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar creamed with 3 tablespoons butter, \y 2 cups 
flour, \y> teaspoons baking powder, y> cup cold English break- 
fast tea, 1 teaspoonful vanilla ; bake and eat while warm. 

MAPLE CAKE. 

1 egg, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup maple sugar, 1 small cup 
sour cream, y 2 teaspoonful soda in cream, 2 cups of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1 cup hickory nuts chopped. 

CUP CAKE. 

4 eggs, 4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups sugar 
creamed with 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

41 



i I A I 1IKK CAKE. 

i eggt i cup sugar. 2 tablespoons melted butter, \> cup milk, 
1 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder ; vanilla. Eat warm. 

JAM CAKE. 

1 cup brown lUgar, cup butter, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking DOW<kr, ]/ 2 cup cold water, 1 cup jam, either gooseberry, 
Utckberry, raspberry, cherry or strawberry. 

devil's food. 

2 cups dark brown sugar creamed with y 2 cup butter, yolks 
of 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, add one cake of Water Baker's sweet 
chocolate grated, 2 l / 2 cups flour into which has been sifted 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 very small teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little water; bake in two layers, put together with caramel icing. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

The whites of eleven eggs, 1 y 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup- 
pastry flour, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Sift 
flour and sugar separately seven times, add sugar and flour a 
little at a time to the eggs ; bake in a pan which has never been 
greased. Bake forty-five minutes. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Beat the whites of nine eggs stiff, 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of 
granulated sugar sifted six times, 1 teasponful baking powder, 
y 2 teaspoonful cream of tartar, y 2 teaspoon each of vanilla and 
almond extract ; bake in a moderate oven. 

WHITE LOAF CAKE. 

y 2 cup butter creamed with ij4 cups of sugar, i$£ cups 
flour and y 2 cup corn starch, y 2 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 of vanilla, whites of six eggs beaten stiff and added; 
last. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat whites of 4 eggs stiff with *4 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
sift % cup flour, Y$ cup sugar, beat sugar and the whites of eggs 
together, add the yolks previously beaten to a cream ; lastly add 
1 cup sifted flour and beat in lightly. Almond extract. Bake- 
in angel food pan forty-five minutes. 

POUND CAKE. 

1 lb. 2 oz. butter, crear*e'd with 1 lb. 14 oz. sugar, add' 
stiffly beaten whites of 12 e<?gs, then the yolks beaten to a cream,. 
1 cup of milk ; lastly 3^ lbs. sifted flour with 4 heaping tea- 
spoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of vanilla and almond; 
extract. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

J/2 cup corn starch, l /> cup flour, sifted together with one tea- 
spoon baking powder, 2 eggs, y> cup granulated sugar and 1-3, 
cup butter creamed thoroughly, add to the flour and corn starch,, 
beat seven minutes, bake in moderate oven. 



PORK CAKE. 

Grind i lb. salt pork through a meat chopper, pour over it 
I pint of boiling water, add i lb. of chopped raisins, *4 lb. cit- 
ron, i cup molasses, 2 cups dark brown sugar, 1 tablespoon each 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice, one tablespoon soda and lastly 1 
beaten egg ; stir thoroughly and add 8 cups flour into which has- 
been sifted 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

DATE CAKE. 

Creak 2 eggs in cup, fill with sour cream, put in mixing; 
bowl, add very small teaspoon soda, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup dates, 
1 chopped nuts, 2 spoons butter, flour to make quite stiff, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, ice with one cup of XXXX sugar mixed 
with enough sweet cream to spread smoothly, lay split dates over 
the top. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE. 

2-3 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons sweet milk r 
1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, lastly the whites of 2 egg% 
beaten stiff. Bake in two layers. 

For filling, whip 1 cup of "double cream," flavor with van- 
illa adding 1 spoon of sugar to each cup of stiff whipped cream, 
spread between layers and over top. Serve at once. Very dainty. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

\ l /z cups sugar creamed with % cup butter, l / 2 cup milk, 2 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 6 eggs ; bake in 
layers. For filling, boil 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 
1 cup hickory nuts in l / 2 cup sweet cream thick enough to spread. 

MAPLE FILLING FOR MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

Boil 1 cup maple sugar 'till it waxes, stir in 2 tablespoons 
butter beating rapidly, spread quickly over cake and between lay- 
ers. Delicious. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

i l / 2 cups sugar, 1 cup rich sour cream, -1 teaspoon soda, r 
teaspoon vanilla, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs well beaten ; bake in layers. 
Take from tin and place split marshmallows closely over each 
layer, return to oven until marshmallows run together, place one- 
layer above the other and serve warm. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE. 

Make cake the same as marshmallow, fill with the following: 
Spread first thickly with quince jelly, then 1 cup ground raisins, 
l /> cup chopped nuts, ]/ 2 cup grated cocoanut mixed with 2 table- 
spoons sugar and the white of 1 beaten tgg. Cover top with 
boiling icing. Rich and delicious. 

MACCAROONS. 

l / 2 lb. blanched almonds powdered fine with a little orange 
water, y 2 lb. sugar, stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs, drop on 
buttered granite tin, lay a nut on each maccaroon ; bake light 
brown, sprinkle with sugar. 



Mahood & Kenney 

64 S. C. Street. 

Business Up, Prices Down. 

Mrs. Geo. Pope 

The Pioneer Milliner 

Exclusive Designs in Fine Pattern Hats. 
WE AIM TO PLRASB. 

Sullivan Candies, Cigars, Tobacco 
Fancy Groceries 

Virginia, - - Nevada 

The City Bakery 

H. BINDELS, Prop. 

Bread, Pies, Cakes and 
Confectionery 

No. 27 North C. Street 



NUT BUTTER FILLING. 

% cup. peanut butter, l / 2 cup sugar, l / 2 cup cream, btJt 
creamy and fill between layers. Sprinkle chopped nuts on top 
of cake. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

y 2 cup peanut butter, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup cream, beat 
then take from stove, stir until it commences to grain, seasoM 
with vanilla. 

RAISIN FILLING. 

I cup seeded raisins, chopped, i cup sugar, I egg, i table- 
spoon of cornstarch, i teaspoon of butter, i cup hot water; boil 
until thick. 

ORANGE HONEY FILLING. 

Boil I pint of sugar with l / 2 cup water till it nairs ; add i cup 
orange peel which has been shredded in meat chopper or chopped 
very fine, I teaspoon vanilla, boil for a moment and place in glass 
jar. Always ready to use for a cake filling, also makes a dainty 
aandwich for lunches. 

BREAD. 

"And no doubt Eve was glad because 
Her hubby could not say, 
Her bread was not like mother made 
Back in his youthful days." 

BREAD. 

One cake compressed yeast dissolved after breakfast in luke 
warm water, I pint warm water, i pint milk, teaspoon salt, 3 
quarts flour, add yeast ; let rise and knead into loaves ; let rise 
and bake one hour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups sour milk, l / 2 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 y 2 cups 
graham flour, 1^2 cups corn meal, 2 small teaspoons soda, 1 salt, 
steam 3 hours ; bake 10 minutes. 

MARYLAND BEATEN BISCUI7 

Ten cups flour; 1 cup lard, 2 cups water, a little salt, mix 
and beat with a heavy maul for s.n hour or till smoth as satin. 
Make in small biscuit and bake in moderate oven 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One cake yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar, lard size of egg, 1 pint 
milk, melt lard in milk, make stiff batter, let rise, mix and knead 
riioroughly, let rise. Roll out an inch thick, cut with large biscuit 
cutter, spread with melted butter, fold together, let rise very 
light. Bake in quick oven, serve hot. 

POCKET ROLLS. 

4 large potatoes mashed, 4 eggs, y 2 cup yeast, 1 qt. flour, r 
cup lard, y 2 cup sugar, pinch of salt, rise, make into turn ove* 
rolls, spreading thickly with butter before folding, let rise very 
Hght and bake, serve crisp and hot. 



Mrs. M. H. Crisler 

Leader in Fine Millinery 

Opp. Post Office. Carson City, Nev. 



IT. J. {Sfcteirxtxiet^ 



Stationery, Kodaks and Photographic Supplies. 

Lilac Cream for Chapped Hands and Faces. 
Opposite Postoffice. Carson City, Nev. 

J. W. OLDING 

Stationer and Newsdealer 

Carson City, Nev. 

Fraoik !£• Meder 

Everythin g For The Sportsman 

Electrical Supplies, Incandescent Globes, and 
Electric Chandaliers. 

Agents For The White Sewing Machines. 



FILLING FOR TAMALES NO. 2. 

Grind 2 lbs. of boiled veal or chicken, 2 large red peppers, 1 
onion. Add 2 teaspoons cayenne pepper, 1 of salt, and mix 
through meat. This will serve 10 people. 

An elegant church or club supper. Serve olives, pickled 
walnuts, sour fruit, black coffee and Russia tea, with peanut 
sandwiches. 

CHILI CON CARNIE. 

Three pounds of clean bacon cut in dice, with 10 lbs. of lean 
beef cut into small pieces. Chop three pounds of suet; place in 
kettle and fry for twenty minutes taking care to stir and not to 
scorch. Now add 2 quarts of Chili beans or black kidney beans 
previously parboiled, and 4 gallons of water, 100 tiny red pep- 
per corns, 6 sweet peppers chopped rather fine, 24 large ripe to- 
matoes, 50 okra pods, J^ teacup of salt. Set it where it will sim- 
mer slowly for 4 hours, adding water as is needed. This should 
serve 150 people. Serve with lettuce sandwiches, coffee and 
pickles. 

FISH CHOWDER FOR 200. 

50 lbs. of sturgeon or white-fish, boil in salted water with 1 
cup vinegar, salt and pepper, pick fish from bones rejecting all 
skin. Add to flaked fish, 6 cans lobster, five lbs. finely minced 
bacon, 15 chopped red peppers; 2 bunches chopped celery, 12 
minced onions, lay bacon in bottom of dish, add vegetables, cover 
with water, cook vegetables tender, add fish and lobster with 6 
gallons milk, 1 cream, 4 lbs. cracker crumbs, salt and pepper to 
taste, bring to boil. Serve with lettuce sandwiches, rye bread 
and butter and iced lemonade without sugar. 

LOO CHING SUEY. 

2 large bunches celery cut in cubes, 6 onions, 2 doz. sweet 
peppers without seeds chopped in bits not too fine ; 2 doz. shallots 
cut in ]/\ inch lengths ; 50 mushrooms sliced ; 50 large ripe to- 
matoes without seeds ; 50 sweet chestnuts blanched and cut in 
small pieces ; meat from 4 chickens cut small, skin rejected ; 10 
calf tongues sliced thin ; 4 lbs. of bacon cut fine ; 2' lbs. suet cut 
very fine. Place suet and bacon in large kettle and fry crisp. 
Add meat and fry to golden brown ; be very careful not to fry a 
dark brown. Now add vegetables and cover with water. Cook 
1 hour. Add salt to taste and liberal quantity of paprika and 
white pepper. Cover tightly and cook 4 hours. Serve 200 guests. 
Serve with Russian tea, hot unseasoned rice, and pimolas. 

CHOP SUEY. 

Mine* 4 lbs cooked veal in y 2 inch pieces, 1 cooked veal 
tongue sliced thin. Shred in long strips and very narrow I lb 
bacon. Chop fine 1 lb fat from veal with a CMp of suet. Place 
fat, suet and bacon in large iron kettle, fry golden brown, stir- 
ing often. Add 1 cup shredded chestnut meats, 4 onions diced 
V 2 inch square, 4 stalks celery cut in Y* inch lengths, 4 large 
potatoes cut in strips as for French fry. Lay vegetables m 

47 



•mnKing fat, fry to golden brown. Add minced veal and tongue; 
stir for 5 minutes, adding salt and white pepper. Sift over l / 2 cup 
flour, Stirring smooth and till rich brown. Add 1 quart water 
and set bade to simmer slowly 1 hour. Serve with bowls of un- 
I rice, cooked till dry and flaky. Will serve 20 people. 

LI HUNG CHANG SUEY. 

!Y to golden brown, 1 lb. veal cut in small pieces; meat 
from one chicken, skin and bones rejected; 1 lb bacon. Add 1 
pint each celery and Spanish onion cut in cubes, 1 doz large 
Bweet peppers chopped without seeds, 12 mushrooms cut in 
slices, 2 quarts water. Gently mix meat and vegetables. Add 
salt and white pepper to taste. Cover and simmer till all water 
is evaporated. Serve with cups of boiled rice without salt, with 
Russian tea in small cups without saucers. 

CHOP SUEY. 

Cut any lean meat, beef or veal, into pieces y 2 inch long, Y^ 
inch thick. Chop 1 lb suet fine. y 2 lb bacon cut in fine shreds. 
Lay in bottom of kettle, fry over slow fire. When well browned 
add lean meat, stir briskly 10 minutes till meat is crisply browned; 
cover with 1 gallon of water to every 4 lbs meat; boil till water 
is all gone ; though first season highly with salt, 1 large Spanish 
onion, 3 large stalks celery, 12 sweet chestnuts blanched and cut 
in shreds (not chopped). Cut onion and celery in dice l /i inch 
square. Cook till all stock is boiled away, leaving a jelly like 
moisture only. This suey should be a very rich dark color, 
which is gained by frying suet and bacon dark brown. 

Serve cooked rice very dry and without salt, on small sep- 
arate dishes, with Japan Tea, clear, in tiny cups without saucers. 

EGG FOO YONG. 

Shred y 2 lb. bacon fine in inch lengths, shred *4 lb- sweet 
chestnuts in fine strips, tiny shreds of celery one spoonful; cook 
bacon crisp and brown, add celery and chestnuts, fry golden 
brown but not crisp; take out of pan, add a little flour, stir till 
well browned and add 1 cup boiling water, making a thin very 
dark brown gravy ; add 1 spoonful Worcestershire sauce. Now 
take a fresh sauce pan in which has been browned a golden 
brown one spoon butter. Into this pan place one spoonful of 
the shredded celery, bacon and nuts, bind together with four table 
spoons beaten egg, salted to taste, cook for a moment, turn to 
brown the other side ; lay on a plate, dip spoonful of brown 
sauce over the little cake which should be about the size of a 
cooky , make three of these, putting spoonful of brown sauce be- 
tween each and over the top, serve with cooked rice without salt. 

MUSHROOMS A LA JAPAN. 

Rub mushrooms free of skin, cut in dice. Cook in salt 
water ten minutes. Add 1 qt. strained tomato, 1 lb chopped 
chicken, t diced veal tongue, *4 lb beef marrow sliced ]/i inch 
thicks 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce, butter, pepper and 
mlt with a little flour to thicken. Serve with unsalted rice. 



DEALERS IN 

Groceries, Provisions, Cigars and Tobacco 

Foreign and Domestic Delicacies, Fruits, Etc. 
TIM B. SULLIVAN No. 19 S. C St.. Virginia, City, Nev. 

THE CROSBY COMPANY 

INCOR.POR.ATED 1896 

Dealers in Carpets, Art Squares, Rugs, Matting, Linoleum 

FURNITURE 

Stoves, Hardware, Wall Paper, Paints, Oils, 
Window Glass, Etc. 

Office and Store, 19 N. C St. Warehouses, 23-30 N- C St. 
J. WESLEY SEXSMITH, Pres. A Mgr . Virginia, Nevada- 

J. IVI. DAVIS 

DEALER IN 

Books, Magazines, Stationery 
Fancy Goods, Etc. 

Agent San Francisco Chronicle, Examiner, Call, Post and 

Virginia Evening Chronicle. 

A Full Line of Typewriter Supplies. 

John McGrath 

Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 

Choice Family Groceries 

Schneider Mining Candles. Idan-ha Water. 

Fresh Roasted Coffee. Fine Teas. 

Crockery, Glassware, Etc. 

No 44 South C St. Virginia, Nev. 



Wm. H. Hancock 

Keeps Constantly on Hand 

Choice Beef, Veal, Pork, Mutton 
Corned Beef, Etc* 

La Fayette Market, Gillig Building, South G St. Virginia City, Nev. 

WALTER J. TONKIN 

Dealer in 

Clothing, Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, Boots, Shoes, 
Dress Goods, Fancy Articles. 

Full Line Stylish Millinery 

Tonkin Building C and Taylor Sts. Virginia City, Nev. 

Benzoated Almond Cream 

An elegant preparation for Chapped Hands, Face or any 

Roughness of the Skin. 

^Removes Tan and Sunburn. 

Leaves the Skin Soft and White. 

Is Not Sticky or Greasy. 

Gentlemen will find it an excellent lotion for the Face after shaving. 

Pioneer Drug Store, B F Pr S o^ w ' 

PRICE 25 CENTS. Virginia City, Nev. 

A. S. Dabovich W. B. Brown 

Brown & Dabovich 

The Leading Confectioners 

CIGARS, TOBACCO 

Ice Cream Soda and Tamale Parlors. 

Phone 183 10 South C St. Virginia City, Nev. 



