"Error seems old, but truth seems a new thing." — Clkmextof Alexandri.\, 
180 A.D. 

" There is not a spot on the globe where a man may nut be kept in health 
and vigour by hygiene." — Dk Chaumont, F.R.S., 1885. 

" The preservation of a large peasant population is one of the most indis- 
pensable necessities for all the great continental Powers. . . . They are the 
physical basis of national prosperity."^ — Success Among Nations. Emil Reich, 
1904. 

"The Belgians aim, not as we do, at producing £5 worth of hay, but £100 
worth of vegetables, to the acre." — Prince Kropotkix. 

"Between 1881 and 1891 farm labourers decreased in England 173 in 
10,000. In the same period insanity increased from 2 to 3 in every 1000." — 
Encydopcvdia Britann ica. 

"In England the decline of the birth-rate since 1876 has been 20 per cent. 
The birth-rate of the Anglo-Saxon race in Canada, Australia, and New Zealand 
is low and steadily falling."— Havelock Ellis. 

" This variety of diet is the one [principal] cause of disease," — Antiphanes 
THE Physician. 

"Degeneration, physical and moral, must be the inevitable result of failure 
to obey the laws of sound and simple nourishment." — !Mrs. Hodgkinson. 

" Take care of your digestion, which means brain." — Thomas Huxley, 
F.R.S. 

" This question of food is one of primary importance, far more than 
education." — Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D., F.R.S. 

"The study of dietetics should be looked upon as very nearly, if not quite, 
as important as the study of therapeutics." — British Medical Journal, May 21, 
1904. 

" To lengthen life, shorten meals. Dyspepsia is due, in nine cases out of 
ten, to too much food, too little exercise." — Pleasures of Life. Sir John 
Lubbock, F.R.S. 

" The eating of much flesh fills with a multitude of evil diseases." — 
Porphyrises, 233 a.d. 

"The misery of the women of the poorer classes is more than doubled by 
the use of tea." — Sir Benjamin W. Richardson, F.R.S. 

"Food is the point about which turns the whole problem of degeneracy." 
— Alfred Eichholz, M.D., B.C., H.M. Inspector of Schools. 

"It is one of the axioms of physiology that the majority of the diseases of 
mankind are due to, or connected with, perversions of nutrition." — Prof. 
Chittenden, Ph.D., LL.D., Sc.D. 



•' It is open to argument whether the whisky bottle or the teapot exercises 
the more baneful influence." — J. Batty Tuke, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

" I have come to the conclusion that more than half the disease that 
embitters life is due to avoidable errors in diet." — Sir Henry Thompson, 
M.D., F.R.S. 

" The secret of maintaining good health in this country [the Soudan] is to 
be temperate. "^ — Lord Kitchener. 

" I would just as soon take a dose of arsenic as I would of alcohol [for 
brainwork]." — Thomas Huxley, F.R.S. 

"The percentage of insane at Chicago has quadrupled in the last fifty 
years." — Dr. Podstata, Superintendent of Asylum, Chicago. 

"Alcohol costs the loss of an army corps every year in France. Crime, 
epilepsy, madness, misery, are abundantly produced by it." — M. Georges 
Berbey. 

" We are living on false stimulants, ... we are learning and even 
nationalising bad hygienic habits. ... I am writing as an observing physician 
who cannot reconcile England's continued greatness with the growing luxury 
practised by her sons." — A Physician. 

"An empire is but little use without an imperial race." — Lord Rosebery. 

"The duration of the life of men may be considerably increased. It would 
be true progress to go back to the simple dishes of our ancestors. . . . Progress 
would consist in simplifying many sides of the lives of civilised people." — Elie 
Metchnikoff. 

" To be a nation of ' good animals ' is the first condition to national pros- 
perity." — Herbert Spencer, F.R.S. 

" One day of perfect health ought to convince a man of the bliss of earthly 
existence. ' ' — Anon . 

"For, in truth, all our justice, morality, all our thoughts and feelings, derive 
from three or four primordial necessities, whereof the principal one is food." — 
Maeterlinck. 

"The Eating and Drinking Reformation is at the foundation of all the good 
that would be produced in society." — Joseph Brotherton, M.P. 

"The Church can do no wiser thing than help forward dietetic reform." — 
Methodist Weekly. 

"No one can rise to the higher developments of the soul who does not 
regulate his life in accordance with the strictest hygienic rules and correct 
educational principles. . . . Among the first factors in the practice of such 
religion stands a well regulated diet." — Dr. Reich, of ZUrich. 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



FIRST IMPRESSION . . MAY 1905 

SECOND IMPRESSION . . JULY 1905 

THIRD IMPRESSION . DECEMBER I906 



STRENGTH 



AND 



DIET 



A PRACTICAL TREATISE 

WITH SPECIAL REGARD TO THE 

LIFE OF NATIONS 



BY THE 

HON. R. RUSSELL 



> 




LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

NEW YORK AND BOMBAY 

1906 




Printed hy 

Morrison and Gibb Limited, 

Edinburgh. 






PREFACE 



In a small book, published early in 1904, dealing 
with the fundamental conditions for physical vigour, 
the following conclusions, among others, were arrived 
at in relation to the diet and well-being of nations : — 

That man thrives on almost any kind of diet 
common to a nation, the general conditions 
being favourable ; 

That both races and individuals living entirely or 
chiefly on plant food, or on plant food with the 
addition of es^j^s and milk, are stronojer and 
happier, other things being equal, than races 
and individuals living chiefly on the flesh of 
beasts ; 

That frugal persons and nations live better and 
longer than others, and are more free from 
disorders of body and mind.* 

The present volume gives in detail the evidence on 
which these conclusions were based. The question of 

* See note, p. G21. 



4 PREFACE 

food may have seemed to occupy undue space, but its 
importance in the present stage of civilisation can 
hardly be doubted by anybody who has studied the 
matter at all. Moreover, it is a subject of combined 
prejudice and semi-scientific error with the majority, 
unlike that of fresh air, or of exercise, and requires 
full elucidation. No book of this scope exists. 

On the ground of health alone, it will be observed 
that I have a decided bias towards a diet which excludes 
flesh, but this bias is the result, and not the prelimin- 
ary, of investigation and experience. 

The far-reaching benefits which would accrue to a 
civilised, progressive, and non-fatalistic race from a 
temperate and humane way of living have greatly 
impressed me, and indeed it seems probable that such 
a race will in future ao^es be the inheritor of the 
earth. 

Note. — In a work dealing with a host of quotations derived from many 
sources, and some of them from fugitive papers or periodicals, 
I can hardly expect that insignificant errors will not occur, 
though much trouble has been taken in verification. For all 
defects of construction which may be found. I am wholly re- 
sponsible. 

The numbers (small figures) attached to quotations, or to 
paragraphs conveying the sense of passages which have been 
abbreviated, refer to Notes which will be found at the end of the 
volume. The Notes are separately and consecutively numbered 
for each Chapter. 



C O N T E N T S 



INTRODUCTION 



CHAPTER I 



Opinions of Great Naturalists, Physiologists, and 
Chemists, on the Proper Diet of Man — Animal or 
Vegetable? ...... 60 

CHAPTER II 

Calculated Chemical and Physiological Values of 

Foods — Comparative Cost of Equivalent Articles . 90 

CHAPTER III 

The Food of Animals considered in relation to 
Strength and Size — Characteristics of Flesh- 
eating Animals ...... 105 

CHAPTER IV 

Diet of Ancient Peoples, and Opinions of some of their 

Greatest Men . . . . . .113 

CHAPTER V 
Diet in the Middle Ages and Later . . . 128 

CHAPTER VI 
Diet of Races and Nations : A General Conspectus . 134 



6 CONTENTS 

PACE 

CHAPTER VII 

Diet of Communities ; including Armies, Religious Sects, 

Workhouses, and Prisons .... 283 

CHAPTER VIII 

Personal Experiences and Observations . . . 301 

CHAPTER IX 

Medical Testimony and Experiences on Diet . . 352 

CHAPTER X 

Stimulants and Narcotics : Alcohol, Tea, Coffee, 

Opium ....... 418 

CHAPTER XI 

Diet in Relation to Disease— Medical and Statistical 

Evidence on Cancer ..... 459 

CHAPTER XII 

Diet in Relation to Athletics and Training . . 534 

CHAPTER XIII 

The Prevalence of Adulteration — Importance of Pure 

Food ....... 546 

CHAPTER XIV 
Supplementary ....... 557 

CHAPTER XV 
Conclusion ....... 606 

APPENDIX 615 

NOTES 621 

INDEX OF NAMES 639 

INDEX OF SUBJECTS .... 647 



INTRODUCTION 



There is a saying : " Happy the nation that is 
without a history." Happy, too, is the community 
tliat thrives and knows not how or why. The means 
of subsistence is not a lofty subject of contemplation. 

" Diet ! What does it matter ? We can do well on 
almost anything" — that is the natural feeling of a 
prosperous organism. There is a healthy disregard of 
dishes, and it is a satisfaction to take what comes, like 
the air we breathe, without troubling about it. 

But even the air we breathe must give us thought 
in present conditions and with present knowledge. 
The lungs protest against what it carries, in the smoky 
town, in the factory, the dusty mine, the ill- ventilated 
office, tenement, hall, church, or railway-car ; and full 
breathino- brings enemies within the gates. In crowded 
towns the nose-breathers w^ill be best fitted to survive ; 
the full-breathers are laid low. Only in the country, 
on the mountain, and on the sea may we breathe freely 
and deeply the air of pure vitality. 

In the matter of food, although a great deal too 
much anxious thought is given to it, we inflict upon 
ourselves many disabilities. 



8 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Experience of the real causes of suffering in this 
epoch and in industrial countries creates a conviction 
of the necessity of reform. The environment of the 
modern is artificial, and he cannot live unconcerned 
with habits which, though maybe formerly innocuous, 
do now, in the narrow space and nervous throng, 
cause enfeeblement to the family and peril to the 
nation. 

Events are occurrins; iu the Far East which deserve 
the most attentive estimation of Europe, and a jjrudent 
recollection of that mighty Oriental torrent which once 
overran Russia and conquered Christian lands up to the 
borders of Austria and Italy. We are too apt to despise 
unaggressive, unwarlike, agricultural people, spread 
over a wide territory, who, however, on sufficient 
provocation, can, with training and expert leaders, 
become as dashing as the French under Napoleon, as 
well-ordered and stubborn as the Ironsides of Cromwell. 
There is a power in the East which, compelled by 
Western aggression, as foolish as it is unjust, on its 
territory, may in days to come rouse itself into ex- 
pansive energy, and surpass the irruption of Jenghiz 
Khan, Streno'th and intellio'euce will be the chief 
factors, suh divo, in establishing tlie nation of the 
future upon a basis as secure as may be. 

A generous population, accustomed to a country 
life, derivino;, like Antaeus, vio-our from contact with 
the soil, and relying on a diet physiologically proper 
for physical edification, will be the chief element of 
strength, intelligence, and endurance in the future 
nation. Nothing is more certain in history than that 
luxury and the dissipation following the access of 
ill-used riches is a main cause of the fall of empires. 



INTRODUCTION 9 

Country life, with a fair distril)ntion of land as the 
rightful property of the people born to the nation, 
is a good security against the perils which always 
beset capital cities, and threaten the existence of 
States growing old under the subtle corruption of 
plutocracy. 

In this connection the question of food may seem 
a small one, but a glance at the passages following the 
title-page of this volume will serve to dispel that 
prejudice. The question of food is a matter of special 
importance to nations in the position of Great Britain, 
where wealth has rapidly increased and the majority 
of the population have recently become dwellers in 
towns, without adequate knowledge of physical laws. 
At the same time, we must confess that without a 
religious spirit of personal reform and progress a 
change in merely physical conditions would be of little 
value. The fact is that temperance, frugality, right 
living, and religion are all more or less concerned with 
the care of the physical nature, and that the whole 
subject is as much allied to spiritual as to material 
causes. 

It is true that many races live almost equally well 
on very different staples, and that a national diet, 
fixed for many generations, is likely to be a good one 
by itself for the endurance of a people. It is also 
true that most of us individually may well despise 
fastidiousness. 

When owing to a slight excess in drink, and the 
conse(|uent incapacity, a battleship with 600 men 
is lost during peaceful evolutions, or a town swept 
away by a burst reservoir, or a forest devastated 



10 STRENGTH AND DIET 

by fire, we realise the value of temperaDce in the 
responsible persons. 

But scientific inquiry, and even common observa- 
tion, has led to discoveries which bring into con- 
sciousness a whole series of disastrous ills, perpetually 
and widely operating, due to mistaken habits which 
now prevail in everyday eating and drinking. Un- 
questionable evidence will be adduced in support of 
this proposition. 

We must remember that a very important part 
of the present daily diet is new to the human con- 
stitution, and artificially prepared ; that the increase 
of opulence within a century has enabled millions 
to add very largely to the variety and richness of 
their fare ; that instead of meals being got and 
cooked at home they are now manufactured on an 
immense scale in slaughter-houses, factories, bakeries, 
and brewing and bottling houses ; that the use of 
preservatives, adulterants, alcoholics, narcotics, and 
stimulants has increased beyond all precedent ; that 
the exertion of tillino; or huntinof for one's own 
sustenance has ceased to be necessary ; that activity 
of brain has largely superseded activity of body ; 
that, in England at least, the majority are townsmen ; 
that sedentary pursuits and confined air have re- 
placed outdoor occupations and the free atmosphere ; 
and, finally, that not only biological discovery, but 
true seatiment and reasoned ethics, cast a new light 
on the ways of living by which the coming race 
may be led to the highest prosperity. 

There is no worthier object of endeavour than 
the bodily and spiritual health of the race. Religion 
and politics both have this for their aim, though 



INTRODUCTION 11 

both have their path obscured with a thousand by- 
objects and with sectional interests of a selfish sort. 
The eclectic philosopher, Greek or English, may despise 
consideration for the everyday triviality of food and 
drink. He may tell mankind to be content with a 
tub, like Diogenes, and then leave mankind alone, or 
he may luxuriate in high art and refined speculation, 
and, unmoved, let the people perish in their foolish- 
ness, with a comforting reflection of the survival of 
the fit. The ultra-Christian may rely on a text, 
rightly valued in its high purport, about not labouring 
for the food that perishes, and giving no care for the 
body, what to eat, to drink, what to be clothed w^ithal. 
But the true philosopher and the true Christian will 
try to join the forces of science and of religion in 
raising the whole of life to a surer happiness, in seeking 
and saving the lost, in healing the sick, in promoting 
comfort, in honouring virtue, in exposing vanity, 
luxury, and falsehood, in protecting children from 
destructive edls, in giving the highest efficiency to 
human powers. He will never forget that body and 
mind react upon each other, and ought to be friends 
in wise co-operation, not quarrellers dissipating energy 
through discord. 

Education has neglected the training of each child, 
each future parent, in the most important elements 
of its sound growth as a member of the common- 
wealth. Let the child by all means be taught its 
letters, its numbers, and its maps, but let it on no 
account leave school and grow up to manhood or 
w^omanhood without an adequate, concise course of 
instruction on the means by which its own strength 
and value, and the life and value of its children, may 



12 STRENGTH AND DIET 

best be maintained. The efficiency of the physical 
constitution, the rearing of children hardy, robust, 
unaffected, reasonable, humane, really means the 
better ability to attain every sort of learning and 
accomplish every sort of work. Health teaching 
might well be considered as a preceding stage to 
higher education, but, at any rate, it should be a 
concurrent endowment at all stages, and should aim 
at some proof of a competent understanding of life 
conditions before the young venturers sail out into 
the open world. 

Elementary education is intended to teach the 
use of instruments for attaining knowledge and 
wisdom. But the physical efficiency of the user of 
instruments, more important still, because funda- 
mental, receives little attention. The workman may 
have excellent tools, but what if his arm lacks 
strength, his vision lacks clearness, his frame vigour, 
and his mind tenacity ? One such, here or there, 
may do well, but the nation that allows many of its 
children to grow up without robustness will soon 
fall behind. 

Now let us look at certain facts, and see whether 
this matter of mere food is really despicable. 

It has been proved that about 40 per cent, of 
the deaths of infants in Great Britain are due to 
bad feedinsj. At least 100,000 children under five 
years of age die every year in these islands, who 
might easily be saved. 

Efforts to provide a pure and uninfected milk- 
supply in New York during the last ten years, 
with the aid of a stringent law for keeping the 
milk cool, have succeeded in reducing the death- 



IXTUODLCTION 13 

rate of children under five from 96*6 to 317 per 
thousand. 

Experiments in improved milk-supply in some 
English towns have led to results similar to those of 
New York. 

An experiment with three babies, two of which 
were hand-fed, and one l)reast-fed, showed, after 
eleven weeks, an increase of weight in the hand-fed 
children of 25 and 33 per cent., and in the breast- 
fed child of 84 per cent. Under ordinary conditions, 
with the interruption of growth owing to microbic 
diseases or bad feeding, the difference might easily 
have been still laroer.^ 

" It is one of the indications of the degeneracy 
that prevails, that the capacity for maternal nursing 
amongst women of the cultured classes (and others) 
is steadily decreasing." - 

And, according to a distinguished authority, the 
subject of the diminishing birth-rate is of so great 
importance to the British Empire, that, " if the 
nation could see it in its true proportion, it would 
be found to dwarf all other questions of the day."^ 

" The birth-rate throughout the whole of the West 
is diminishing, while that of the East (Russia, Japan, 
etc.) is expanding." 

The percentage of yearly loss in the years 1894-8 
is shown to be o-reater in Enoiand than in the other 

O O 

countries of Europe. The number of marriages does 
not seem to have declined. In Australia the decline 
is still more rapid, and the birth-rate is now far 
below that of any European nation. 

At the same time, "juvenile criminalism," accord- 
ino- to Brahms, "is on the increase"; and in his 



14 STRENGTH AND DIET 

tables, England shows a higher percentage of criminals 
under twenty than any other European country ex- 
amined. There may be some reassuring explanation 
of this, but at anyrate there is no cause for satisfac- 
tion. 

The Report of the Commissioners in Lunacy of 
1903 shows that there were of lunatics, idiots, and 
persons of unsound mind, per 10,000 persons, 23*93 
in 1869, 27-54 in 1879, 30-58 in 1894, 32-96 in 
1899, 34-14 in 1903. The ratio of admissions to 
asylums, etc., has rapidly increased within the last 
few years— 1899, 4'94 ; 1900, 5*02; 1901, 5-28; 
1902, 5-76. Here, too, there may be explanations, 
but no satisfaction. 

The arrests for drunkenness in London were for 
1885-9, 4-33 per thousand people; in 1897, 7-35. 

The Report of the Registrar-General for 1902, 
quite recently issued, records the deaths of 2,784 
persons from alcoholism or delirium tremens. The 
rates, Ijoth for men and women, were above the 
decennial average. A very large number of diseases 
are also, in many cases, induced by excessive drink, 
which cannot be tabulated as owing to this cause ; 
and the mortality is by " no means adequately " 
represented. Among these diseases, neuritis, peri- 
tonitis, dropsy, tuberculosis, and cirrhosis of the liver 
may be named. This last, " far from having shared 
in the general fall of mortality " of recent years, " has 
actually increased in fatality," among males by 40 
per cent., among females by 55 per cent., since 
1873-7. 

The deaths ascribed to cancer, or malignant disease, 
in 1902 numbered 27,872, and exceeded by 2,384 the 



INTRODUCTION 15 

average number (corrected) in the previous ten years. 
The male rate (crude) was 696 per million, the highest 
on record; the female rate was 985, the highest, in 
conjunction with the previous year, on record. At 
each of the six age-groups under thirty-five, the 
registered mortality is " increasing, and that not 
slowly." The increase of cancer mortality was, how- 
ever, greatest at the more advanced ages, among both 
men and women. 

There is generally an optimist side to all such 
statistics, and investigations may fail to show an 
absolute proof of increase in lunacy, cancer, alcoholism^ 
etc., but we cannot doubt the gravity of the actual 
facts. It is better to make for regeneration, whether 
degeneration be or be not proven, than to let in- 
dubitable evils accumulate. 

" The human race is ill, . . . and the world, which 
is a paradise, but by men converted into a hospital, is 
seen and judged through the eyes of an invalid."'* 

Mr. Karl Pearson, from a careful study of the 
inheritance by children of the mental and moral, as 
well as the physical characters of the progenitors^ 
concludes : " The reason for the deficiency is that the 
mentally better stock in the nation is not reproducing 
itself at the same rate as of old, — the less able and the 
less enero;etic are the more fertile. . . . For the last 
forty years the intellectual classes of the nation, ener- 
vated by wealth, or by love of pleasure, or following an 
erroneous standard of life, have ceased to give in due 
proportion the men wanted to carry on the ever- 
growing work of the Empire." 

Either the children born are weaker and more 
neurotic than formerly, or the proportion of the young 



16 STRENGTH AND DIET 

recruited from the lower, and from the more vicious 
strata of society, is dangerously augmented. " The 
conclusion is, in any case, one of the utmost 
gravity." 

In France, from 1881 to 1896, the number of 
prisoners before the tribunals has risen from 210,000 
to 240,000; since 1889, in seven years, the cases of 
manslaughter have risen from 156 to 189, of murder 
from 195 to 218, and of sexual crime from 539 to 651. 

During the last fifty years, criminality has trebled 
itself, though the population has hardly increased at 
all. Child and youth criminality has very rapidly 
increased. To-day, child criminality is nearly double 
that of adults, and the crimes are of a specially serious 
kind, marked by bragging and exaggerated ferocity. 
[Much of the increase is owing to the increased con- 
sumption of alcohol, and its effect on offspring.] 

In 1830 the suicides were 5, in 1892 they were 
24 in 100,000. In 1887 the suicides of children 
under sixteen were 55, in 1896 they were 87, and 
between the ages of sixteen and twenty-one the 
suicides were 375. 

Since 1880, the consumption of alcoholic drink in 
France has trebled, and France has passed from the 
seventh place, in the order of consumption, to the 
first, according to Mr. Yoxall, M.P. 

Since 1880, the number of suicides has doubled. 
In the United States the increase of crime has followed 
a course somewhat similar.^ 

" When we recognise," says Dr. Taylor, " that the 
whole force of modern civilisation, its honour paid to 
riches, its luxury, its frivolity, its impatience, its 
society, its manner of life, its very ' neurasthenia,' 



INTRODUCTION 17 

seems all more or less opposed to the cultivation of 
that true f^imily life which is its best safeguard against 
decay, one needs, indeed, to temper judgment with a 
quick apprehension of all the ditiiculties encountered 
by every modern wife and mother, and to recognise the 
almost insurmountable obstacles for the Church, the 
State, and the profession of medicine slowly to over- 
come. ... 

It is by no means a law of nature that ancient 
kingdoms or peoples must decay. " Japan," says a 
native of that country, " is in no danger of race- 
suicide. The mothers are not shirking maternity as 
in other lands." 

The Hebrews, according to Dr. Taylor, are healthy 
and sound in their regard for marriage and the bearing 
of families ; the artificial limitation of offspring is not 
practised, and they seem to live not individually but 
racially among the people with whom they dwell. 
They show no sign of real decay. 

The outlook for the Western nations, on the 
contrary, is most serious. 

In the course of a recent address, Dr. Taylor cited 
the following sentences from Ruskin, and observed that 
no truer words were ever said : — " The maximum of 
life can only be reached Iw the maximum of virtue." 
"There is no wealth but life." "The final outcome 
and consummation of all wealth is [should be] in the 
producing of as many as possible full-breathed, bright- 
eyed, and happy-hearted human creatures." We might 
well add the conclusion of Socrates : " Then virtue is 
the health and beauty and well-being of the soul." 
"And good practices lead to virtue, and evil practices 

to vice." 

2 



18 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The testimony of Sir James Crichton-Browne is 
very much to the same effect as that of Dr. Taylor. 

In New York, three out of four children of cultured 
women must be fed artificially. Six months of maternal 
nursing is quite an exception. At the same time, 
cancer of the breast is apparently increasing, and 
women employed in factories, unable to nurse their 
children, become prematurely aged. 

If all children were fed at the breast, as they ought 
to be, three-fourths of the now prodigious infant 
mortality would cease. 

Of the 150,000 infants who die in the first year 
of life in this country, only one-fourth have been fed 
at the mother's breast. In France the mortality of 
artificially fed children is 61, and of breast-fed 8 per 
cent. Dr. Hope of Liverpool finds that fifteen times 
as many artificially fed infants die under three 
months, as of infants fed on breast-milk. 

Rickets, essentially a disease of impaired nutrition, 
is present in some degree in 50 to 80 per cent, of all 
the children passed under review at the clinic of the 
London hospitals. In 1882 the deaths attributed to 
rickets in England and Wales were 493, in 1901 they 
were 1,384, or 42 against the previous 19 per million. 

" But this does not nearly represent the general 
worsening of health due to rickets." 

" Innumerable infants are gorged to deatli and fed 
with utterly unfit materials. Whelks, porter, tinned 
salmon, gin, walnuts, whisky, cheese, lemonade, are 
among the substances given by foolish parents, who 
slay more children than Herod. "^ 

Dr. Robert Hutchison, as a result of his inves- 
tio-ations, concludes that "an immense amount of harm 



INTRODUCTION 19 

is done " by the indiscriminate use of condensed milks. 
Babies fed on them may look fat and well, but the 
fatness produced by the sugar is deceptive, and these 
Ijabies are often subject to rickets and other ailments. 

The best system of artificial feeding is by the 
scientific treatment and oraduation of cow's milk. 
The nutrition of infants is a root question in public 
health, and the sanitary authorities ought, besides in- 
structing parents by lectures and house-to-house visits, 
to distribute leaflets broadcast, treating of the pre- 
paration and storage of infants' food. 

In Liverpool 4,453 infants were supplied with milk 
at the depot of the Corporation ; although they were of 
various ages and below the average in health, the death- 
rate was only 78 per 1,000, against 159 for the whole 
city. 

For older children, a good and ample milk supply 
is very important. Dr. Ferguson, a factory inspector, 
has shown by careful measurements that factory chil- 
dren between thirteen and sixteen otow nearlv four 
times as fast on milk for breakfast and supper, as on 
tea and coffee. 

According to Sir William Anson, a very large 
number of school children are defectively nourished. 
The children in an ill-fed school are almost immeasur- 
ably inferior to the children of a well-fed school in the 
o-ain from teachino-. Bread and weak tea form the sole 

o o 

sustenance of many children for long periods. [This is 
a most scandalous fact.] The blood is impoverished, 
and has enough to do to keep the vital processes going ; 
it can spare nothing for reconstruction and enlarge- 
ment. " These half-starved children want blood, and 
we offer them a little brain polish." " Each child," 



20 STRENGTH AND DIET 

says Sir James Cricliton-Browne, " ought to have two 
pints of new milk daily." 

In au instructive account of a visit paid by him to 
a school for 208 boys in South London, he relates that 
25 were in a thoroughly sound and vigorous condition, 
69 in fair condition, 45 in poor, and 65 in very poor 
condition; 112 suffered from habitual headaches, 7Q 
from disturbed sleep or sleepwalking, 97 had decayed 
teeth, 16 were short-sighted, 40 had frequent bleeding 
of the nose. In 79 cases the food was ample, in 49 
fair, in 80 meagre, and of these 38 were semi-starved ; 
milk was an unknown quantity except as imparting an 
occasional cloudiness to tea. Milk is to sanitation, he 
maintains, what elementary education is to education 
generally. 

Similar testimony comes from almost all quarters 
of the United Kingdom. The Report of the Royal 
Commission on Physical Training (Scotland) in 1902, 
and the Report of the Committee on Physical Deterio- 
ration, just issued, contain most valuable evidence of 
the extent and character of existino- deficiencies. The 

o 

Scotch Committee found 70 per cent, of the children at 
certain elementary schools to be more or less diseased, 
and more than 30 per cent, owed their ailments to 
under-feeding. Out of 1,200 children examined in 
Edinburgh and Aberdeen, 29 '8 3 and 9 per cent. 
respectively were badly nourished. In Edinburgh, 
18 '5 had diseased glands, 52*54 had somethino; wrono; 
about the throat or nose. Sir John Gorst descriljed 
these reports as " the most appalling he had ever read." 
The bearing^ of the cited facts on the trainino- of 
the race and on national efficiencv is ol)vious, " Good 



INTRODUCTION 21 

food," as a rising statesman recently declared, "must 
be the foundation of physical training," It is not only 
the heavy child mortality, but the general weakening 
of the men and women who have survived the infantile 
diseases inseparable from neglect, that must urge us 
to reform, as a nation. Public and private care will 
make abler citizens for the stress of the coming time. 

In a paper ^ read last May before the Childhood 
Society, Dr. Shuttleworth said that the restriction of 
the marriage of the unfit is of prime importance, 
but a difticult problem ; ante-natal care is desirable ; 
maternal nursing instead of bottle-feeding a duty 
wherever practicable ; that school methods should be 
brought into harmony with physiological principles ; 
that growing children should be protected from over- 
strain, meutal or physical, and conditions of life 
rendered as favourable as possible by sanitary homes, 
sanitary schools, etc., and, where needful, by sup- 
plying nutriment. 

It is a curious condition to which a semi-rational 
progress has brought us, that most parents are unfitted 
to bring up their children, so that either a full course 
of State teaching, or even, in many cases, the removal 
of young children from their control, becomes neces- 
sary for the saving of life. It comes to this, that if 
the children of crowded areas were left to the nature 
of their parents, they would mostly not survive. 
The environment, to give them a good chance, 
must be sensibly artificial, or else more like that 
of primitive tribes, whose instincts guided them to 
survival. 



22 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" Protection of infant life," in the opinion of a 
qualified man, Dr. Kelynack,* " is essential to national 
prosperity." 

" We have to face gloomy facts : the birth-rate is 
steadily ftilling ; the infant death-rate is excessively 
high ; and we are l)reeding at an alarming rate those 
who, from weakness of body or mind, are unfitted to 
play a useful part in the upbuilding of the State." 

The births registered in 1900 were [then] at the 
lowest rate on record. The death-rate of infants 
ranged from 79 in Rutlandshire and 91 in Dorset- 
shire, to 178 in Stafifordshire, 179 in the East Riding, 
180 in Lancashire, and 236 in Preston. Even those 
towns w^ith the lowest rates are very much worse than 
the counties with low rates. 

" The addiction of women to habits of excessive 
alcoholic indulgence has become a matter for national 
concern. In very many ways alcoholic habits in the 
parents, and particularly in the mother, are particu- 
larly prejudicial to healthy infant development." 

In the discussion which followed, Miss Zannetti 
stated that parents gave their children beer, bacon, 
potatoes, and cheese, instead of milk, and were also 
fond of dosing them with opium. Mr. Wethersole 
cited the case of Munich, where the death-rate anion o- 
breast-fed was 15, as-ainst 85 anions^ bottle-fed chil- 
dren. Durino^ the cotton famine, and durino; the sieoje 
of Paris, there was a great saving of infant life owing 
to the necessity of natural feeding. 

In Berlin, in 1891, according to Dr. Legge,^ M.D., 
D.P.H., the percentage of deaths among breast-fed 
infants was 18*46, among animal-milk fed, 47 "77, and 
with a mixed diet, 52 '37. 



INTRODUCTION 23 

In ;i papei'^'^ read l)efore the Sanitary Institute of 
Great Britain, Dr. Harris, medical officer for Sunderland, 
contended that " the great curse of infantile life seems 
to be the ardent desire of parents and nurses to behold 
their infants taking solid food." In his experience, "a 
child one month old at death had been fed on Neave's 
food for three weeks previously ; another had been 
given suet puddings, potatoes, and ' everything the 
same as the parents ' ; another was fed on raw eggs 
and milk. . . . Teething rarely causes death. Per- 
sonally I have never seen a case of which I could 
positively affirm, ' teething caused this death.' " Ac- 
cordincv to the Reo-istrar-Geueral for Scotland, about 
1880, "if the English mortality were reduced to the 
Scotch standard, 17,000 lives would be saved annually 
in England." In Scotland, as a rule, no spoon food 
was given to a child within nine months of its birth. 
Suffi)cation — that is, excluding fresh air by covering up 
the child with clothes, etc. — causes over 1,000 deaths 
annually. Ventilation reduced the number of infants 
dying in the Rotunda Hospital at Dublin from 3,000 
to 530. 

In Sir Douglas Galton's inaugural address to the 
Institute in 1882, he mentioned that in the Northern 
Counties Orphan Asylum, the children were singularly 
free, during the eighteen years of its existence, from 
children's disorders. Each child had a pint of new 
milk ev^ery day. During three months they had 
received weak tea, and only half the previous allow- 
ance of milk ; the number of children who were unwell 
increased beyond what it had been for years, but fell 
again when the pint of milk was restored. 

At the same meetins; Miss Yates lamented the 



24 STRENGTH AND DIET 

disuse of the home-made bread which had been tlie 
principal support of the English people for hundreds 
of years. " The bread they have adopted is one from 
which a large portion of the flesh-forming, and nearly 
all the bone- forming, materials have been extracted." 
This is a serious matter for the strength of the nation. 
Professor Church states that in 100 lb. of white flour 
there is only half a pound of bone-forming material, 
while 100 lb. of whole meal contains 2 lb. Dr. 
Edward Smith advised that whole meal should be used, 
but finely ground ; and Dr. de Chaumont recommended 
the removal of the outer siliceous husk of the grain. 

In a letter to the Times, the Dean of Ripon quoted 
Mr. Schooliuo-'s estimate that the birth-rate in England 
has declined both actually and relatively more than in 
France since 1875, and that the decline has been more 
rapid than in any European country. 

In an article in the Independent Review for Novem- 
ber 1903, Mr. Havelock Ellis states that " in the United 
States, in Canada, in Australia, not only is the birth- 
rate of the purely Anglo-Saxon elements of the popu- 
lation constantly sinking, but the other racial elements 
in these lands do not follow the same tendency," so 
that the English are losing, the non- English gaining, 
in British territory. In fecundity the Russians are 
now at the head ; the Austrian s, especially the Magyars, 
approach them ; later come Italians, English, and 
French. The Germans are far ahead of the Ensrlish. 

In a paper by Dr. T. Lister on " Infant Feeding," ^^ 
he stated that the birth-rate is falling in nearly all 
European countries, and that the fall in England in 
the last twenty-five years was from 35 "4 to 28 "7. 



IXTRODl CTIOX 25 

" One might say that it will not always be a race 
merely for wealth and armaments, but eventually for 
life itself." Every year 100,000 children are born in 
this country to die before twelve months have passed. 
It is not known yet to the general public that a very 
large part of this mortality is the result of improper 
and foolish feeding. This mortality from food is 35 
to 45 per cent, in most of our English towns, without 
counting many cases in which food was indirectly con- 
cerned. About three-fourths occur in artificially fed 
infants. Of artificially fed infants 80 per cent, suffer 
from disorders of digestion, of nursed infants 25 per 
cent. In France the mortality of breast-fed is 8 per 
cent., of milk-fed 20 per cent., and of otherwise fed 
infants 41 per cent.^- In Sweden and Norway, where 
nearly all children are fed naturally, the mortality is 
10 to 13 ; in Lower Bavaria, where artificial feeding is 
general, the rate is nearly 50 per cent. 

Artificial feeding, properly and scientifically con- 
trolled, may, however, be made very much safer than 
at present. 

Dr. Variot has durino; eioht vears distributed 
sterilised milk to over 1500 infants; there was no 
case of scurvy or rickets among those where the milk 
was properly used. In St. Helens and Battersea the 
milk supplied by the municipalities appears to reduce 
the mortality of infants by more than one-third. 

The adulteration with preservatives is particu- 
larly harmful to young children. 

Milk is subject to many sorts of dangerous con- 
tamination on its way from the cow to the consumer. 
Dr. Klein has shown that the germs of typhoid, diph- 
theria, scarlet fever, and tuberculosis, all grow in milk 



26 STRENGTH AND DIET 

in favourable circumstances. Dr. Ernest Hart and 
others traced a large number of local epidemics to 
milk. 

Unless milk is kept cold, the increase of its germ 
population is almost inexpressible in figures. The 
systematic cooling of milk, wherever practised, has 
prevented a very large amount of disease and mor- 
tality. In present conditions, milk should be heated 
to 180 degrees, or boiled before use, but in future we 
may hope for the protection of milk from the moment 
it leaves the cow. Milk is more nutritious without 
boiling or sterilisation, and children fed on boiled milk 
should receive 25 per cent, extra. 

Speaking of tuberculosis produced by the milk of 
tuberculous cows, Sir 'William Broadbent said that 
" the diseases of bones and joints to which children 
are subject are probably also traceable to milk : 
hump -back, hip -joint disease, and the diseases of 
knees, elbows, etc., which cripple so many children." 
[Tainted milk does not, of course, account for all such 
cases ; the condition of the homes is a very notable 
cause.] 

Mr. Brittlebank has stated :^^ "As far as my 
experience takes me, the milk trade is in a filthy 
condition." The horrible contaminations to which 
milk is subject, the number of risks to the consumer, 
the frequent adulteration, the additions of flavouring 
and colouring matters, and the poorness of quality, 
are far from being commonly realised." In one bad 
example of milk, Mr. Brittlebank found, after eight 
hours, a proportion of about 124,000,000 bacteria to 
the cubic centimetre. Mr. J. S. Lloyd, of Sheffield, 
remarked that in some country places the cowsheds 



INTRODUCTION 27 

were " simply abominable," and other members of the 
Institute were of the same opinion. 

Dr. Harvey Hilliard, who has given much attention 
to this subject, considers that " the vitality and the 
future of the nation depend on the health and vigour 
of the infants of to-day." ^^ . . . The source of an infant's 
health and strength is, of course, the nourishment with 
which it is provided ; the future of succeeding genera- 
tions depends, therefore, on the food of the f)abies of 
the present day. 

Milk carefully adapted to the child is the one satis- 
factory food for a young infant. Rich and highly 
nutritious food may be given, yet the infant will starve, 
owing to its inability to digest it. Human milk is 
the best, Irat when this is not available, cow's milk,. 
obtained from only the most carefully guarded dairies 
and cowsheds, should be used, with every possible pre- 
caution agjainst the numerous sources of mischief which 
may infect or spoil it between the cowshed and the 
nursery. " Few people realise the amount of dirt that 
gets into the milk." The milk should be filtered through 
several layers of sterilised gauze, and cooled before its 
despatch to market. The bottle and its temperature 
should be objects of constant attention. Generally^ 
the strength of the milk should be gradually increased, 
for healthy children, up to about the ninth or tenth 
month, when whole milk may be given. 

" People who have worked among the poor and ha^'e 
treated babies dying of inanition know that the answer 
to the question, ' And what do you feed the baby on ? ' 
will probably be, that the Ijaby has whatever they have 
themselves — sometimes beer included ! Is it surpris- 
ing, then, that out of 1,000 infants born in these crowded 



•28 STRENGTH AND DIET 

areas 393 die in their first year ; and is it other than to 
be expected that those who do survive are ill-developed, 
shallow-chested, puny and unfit specimens to be allowed 
to carry on the race ? Is it a wonder that our asylums 
and hospitals for consumption are overcrowded, and 
our other charitable institutions for the halt, the lame, 
and the blind filled to overflowing, or that so many are 
' born tired ' ? . . . An enormous amount of good 
can be done by the establishment of municipal creches 
in crowded areas." 

Dr. Thomas D. Lister, assistant physician to the 
Royal Waterloo Hospital for Children and AVomen, 
etc., has given his testimouy,^^ that he has come 
to the conviction that " the need for infants' milk 
depots exists in every centre of high infantile 
mortality. 

Miss Marion EUiston, in a recent article, deplores 
the careless extravagance of the poor towards their 
children. " There are so many of those marasmic 
liabies — not starved by having no food, but by being 
fed on food which does not feed them, — cold cabbage, 
sardines, cheese, tea, beer, and all kinds of mixtures. 
When the mothers bring them to us like this, and 
when the doctor asks what the child has been fed on, 
they say, most indignantly and reproachfully, ' Just 
whatever we have ourselves, sir.' " Similar experience 
is very common among the poor, and forms a tremen- 
dous impeachment of our whole intelligence and our 
whole educational routine as a nation. " In many dis- 
tricts it is quite impossible for poor mothers to obtain 
a supply of milk that is ^uve and always the same." 
This is infamous, and infamous, too, is the fact that in 



IXTRODLCTIOX 29 

most towns tlie milk sold is poor, adulterated, preser- 
vatived, dirty, and dangerous. 

In Poverty : A Studij of Town Life, Mr. Rowntree 
describes the children as very frequently underfed, 
largely owing to the adulteration of milk and the bad 
quality of the bread. 

Professor Atwater, of the United States Department 
of Agriculture, among many other interesting state- 
ments in the Year-Book of 1901, writes that the 
hygienic economy requires that the food shall not only 
meet the physiological demands in respect to the 
quantities of nutriment and energy, but also that it 
shall be fitted to the digestive powers and other 
physiological peculiarities of the users ; this is especially 
important for invalids and young children. So we may 
observe for ourselves, both the children of the poor, 
who are underfed, and the boys at some public schools, 
who are overfed with flesh three times a day, are 
unhealthy. 

The medical officer for Southwark^'' considers that 
about 50 per cent, of the deaths of inftmts there are 
due to improper feeding. The deaths under one year 
have averaged one-quarter of the total mortality. Hand- 
sheets have been prepared, and these are now left at 
the houses of the poor by lady inspectors. In 1900 the 
mortality was 192, in 1901 it was 168, and in 1902 it 
w^as 166. Of the total mortality, about one in every 
seven deaths is due to consumption. 

Sir James Crichton-Browne has written : " Could 
a generous and wholesome dietary be provided for all 
the children of the poor, one-half of the disease, pauper- 
ism, and crime that now Iniiden the country would have 
disappeared by the next generation." 



30 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. Kerr, inedical officer of the London School 
Board, is of opinion ^' tliat there is no room for the 
further deterioration of London children, else London 
will, by the end of the twentieth century, be peopled 
by neurotic weaklings. 

" Mr. Charles Booth and ^Ir. Rowntrce have 
shown that we have about 30 per cent, of our popula- 
tion (of cities) receiving 25 per cent, less food than 
is proved scientifically to be needed for physical 
efficiency." [The results attained by these investi- 
gators are open to criticism, which detracts somewhat 
from their significance. Mrs. Bosanquet, Mr. Loch, 
and others have contributed interesting papers putting 
the earnings and nutriment of the poorest class higher 
than the York estimate. Further, scientific proof is 
forthcoming that the minimum of nutriment per head 
required is considerably less than has been hitherto 
stated in treatises on the subject.] In York, 51*6 
of the poorest children, 18 "8 of the middle, and 11 '4 
of the best fed, were " bad " in physical condition. 
The weight of the poorest was 11 lb. less than the 
average, the height 3^ in. less. Of Jewish children, 
17 per cent, were rickety; of Gentile, 45. Of Jewish 
children, 27 had bad teeth ; of Gentile, 51. The 
Jewish girls were much taller and heavier than the 
Gentile. The Jewish mother studies the diet of her 
children, giving milk, eggs, whole meal, butter, oil, 
fish, etc. 

Compare this with the common dietary of our 
poor — the extravagant unwholesomeness, — and the 
difiereuces between Jewish and English growth are 
accounted for. Bread, butter, and tea, with a little 



INTRODrCTIOX 31 

bacon, fried li.sh, or bestial entrails, arc quite in- 
sufficient ; the l)read, which might go a long way in 
supporting life, is defective in <]uality, deprived of 
some of the most useful constituents of the grain. 

" It has been estimated that about ten millions 
of people in the United Kingdom are underfed. "^^ 
But, if they are underfed, it is not so much from 
poverty, as from ignorance and the wrong choice of 
foods. The wasteful expenditure, even of the poorest, 
is deplorable. 

On the other hand, we have the stronoest medical 
testimony of the prevalence of over-eating. In Dr. 
Bell's opinion, " there are more deaths and greater 
bodily sutiering due to overfeeding than to all the 
diseases put together."^'' Similarly, Dr. Robertson 
Wallace declares """^ that a vastly greater number of 
persons in the Empire die of over-eating than of 
starvation. India must be excluded, I think, from 
this estimate. Whole masses of men, he says, suffer 
from perfectly avoidable disorders, which could be 
prevented or cured by temperance in diet. Among 
these disorders he names gout and so-called rheuma- 
tism, poisoning of the nervous system, eczema, kidney 
and pulmonary troubles, many cases of bronchitis 
and pleurisy. 

Dyspepsia, says Lord Avebury, is due, in nine 
€ases out of ten, to too much food, too little exercise. 

^lore than half the disease that embitters life. Sir 
Henry Ihompson concluded, is due to avoidable errors 
in diet. 

Dr. Combe's observation deserves more oeneral 
appreciation than it receives : " Health is more 
fre<juently undermined by the gradual operation of 



32 STRENGTH AND DIET 

constant, tlioiiLih unperceived, causes, than ])y any 
great and marked exposures of an accidental kind." 

It is (piite clear that only a small minority have 
any proper knowledge of elementary facts in physi- 
ology and in hygiene, especially in relation to the 
feeding, not only of their children, but of themselves. 

Great Britain has rapidly increased in riches. 
Since 1872 the population has increased nearly one- 
third; pauperism has diminished one-half; and the 
home and foreign trade has more than doubled in 
volume, and is at least two and a half times as pro- 
fitable. The earnings of the people have increased 
from £34 to £43 per head ; the purchasing power 
from £34 to £64 per head, compared with 1872. 
[This was, however, a year of high prices.] The pur- 
chasing power is, roughly, one-third greater than it 
was forty years ago."^ 

Yet the increase which might have been expected 
in the health and strength of the people is not found 
to have taken place. On the contrary, in some large 
divisions of the country, and, in some respects, in 
the country as a whole, the condition has changed 
nmch for the worse. The causes of deterioration, or 
of failure to improve, are mainly three — Oppidanism, 
with all that it implies ; excessive or improper food ; 
and alcoholism. Education has not been of the kind 
to counteract adec[uately the evil influence at work. 

A statistical analysis by Mr. Francis Galton"' of 
the details of one thousand town flimilies and one 
thousand country families, selected from the town of 
Coventry and the adjacent rural population, showed 
that the town population supplied to the next gener- 
ation only three-quarters of the number of adults 



IXTUODLCTIOX 33 

supplied by the eej^ually numerous country population, 
and that in two generations the adult grandchildren 
of artisan townsfolk were little more than half as 
numerous as those of labouring people who lived in 
healthy country districts. In large, closely built 
centres of population the ratio would probably be 
increased considerably against the town population ; 
and Coventry is by no means one of the worst of 
what may be called congested areas. 

Dr. Morgan's paper on " The Deterioration of Races 
in Great Cities" showed that of the adult population 
of London 53 per cent., of Birmingham 49 per cent., 
of Manchester 50 per cent., and of Liverpool 62 per 
cent., were immigrants from the country settled in 
the town. 

It follows that the deterioration of quality, and 
the decline in the birth-rate, closely succeeds the 
immigration to towns. 

The Germans in large towns appear to be similarly 
degenerating.-^ Cnly 54 per cent, of the young men 
called up for army service are found physically fit. 
Heart disease has "increased by 300 per cent." Dr. 
Archer has given the following as the causes of de- 
terioration : — Excessive induloence in alcoholic drinks 
at an early age, the necessity for boys to work beyond 
their powers in the lower classes, and systematic in- 
sufficiency of nourishment. The fitness of the Berlin 
people for military service has fallen continuously and 
seriously since 1893 from 43*39 per cent, to 3174 per 
cent, in 1899, and 32 in 1900. In the province of 
Brandenburg, outside Berlin, the proportions were 
5:;04 in 1896, 53*51 in 1900; in agricultural East 
Prussia, 66*49 in 1896, 66*27 in 1900. 



34 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In France, as in England, alcoholism has increased 
with increased riches, and is considered to be now 
most alarming.-"* Consumption, which ought to dimin- 
ish with more abundant food, has also increased. It 
kills about 150,000 every year; in Paris, in the 
poorest quarter, nearly 11 per 1000 die every year; 
in the richest quarter 1 in 1000.^" In Paris 149 per 
1000 live in unhealthy dwellings; 363 per 1000 in 
dwellings ])adly overcrowded. Consumption is sadly 
prevalent in the army : " Our young recruits," says 
one authority, " are the most robust of our popula- 
tion ; their food is good and abundant, their barracks 
are roomy, they pass a great part of their tim.e in the 
open air ; yet, in the French army, the percentage of 
deaths from consumption is eleven times greater than 
it is in civil life." Professional athletes, he says, are 
peculiarly liable to consumption. No doubt, dirty 
habits account for a very large proportion of the 
mortality in these classes, and alcoholism, contagious 
disease, etc., have their share, but the number of the 
young, strong, and well-nourished who are attacked 
is, in any case, remarkable. 

Professor Jordan, in a recent article, has insisted 
on the fact that " all great cities are destroyers of 
life," and has related how the most intelligent and 
ambitious of the French peasantry yearn to seek a 
fortune in Paris, there, in many cases, to fall into 
various miseries, and end in absinthe and the Morgue. 
The survival of the fittest is, he says, the primal cause 
of race progress, the survival of the unfittest the 
primary cause of the downfall of nations; but "the 
child is free-born," and "almost everything can be 
accomplished by time and patience." 



INTRODUCTION 35 

I think he is right in this opinion, which is held 
by many other physiologists, and l)elieve that, in the 
future, the primacy of the world will belong to those 
races which are most temperate and wdiich are well 
distributed on the land or in open cities, sensibly 
educated, and reasonably unaggressive. There are, 
however, times which are critical and decisive. 

The survival of the unfit, and the rapid decline 
or extinction of the fit, have reached threatening pro- 
portions in Great Britain and North America. The 
strain of modern life tells mainly on the best, and 
these best are continually being sacrificed and replaced 
by fresh comers. Indoor occupations instead of out- 
door, excessive stimulants, narcotics, competition, worry, 
and the absence of rest and quiet contemplation, have 
wrought havoc with the human constitution. 

]\lr. Havelock Ellis, in his book on Tlie Distribu- 
tion of British Ability, dismisses London as a locality 
from which men of great distinction and ability arise. 
" London as a birthplace has been ignored altogether. 
When the facts are available, it is nearly always found 
that the parents had migrated to London ; we may 
reasonably assume that this is probably the case when 
the facts are not available. It very rarely occurs that 
one grandparent belonged to London." If this be 
true of London, somethins; of the same sort must 
liappen in other large urban communities. And the 
ill effects must be immeasurably more far-reaching 
tlian the mere extinction of great men ; they must 
include the enfeebling of the powers of the mass of 
men and women within their borders. Yet the cities 
are composed of the best stock of the country. From 
nearly all parts of England, says Mr. Rider Haggard, 



36 STRENGTH AND DIET 

in his valuable book on Rural England, the abler 
labourers and young men of various classes leave the 
country and settle in the towns. " The intelligent 
leave the land." 

Dr. H. Campbell, who has deeply studied the 
subject in connection with the causation of disease, 
goes so far as to say -*^ that in the poorer classes the 
family never passes beyond the third generation of 
slum born and bred. If you get a third generation 
at all, it is ill-formed, and " on the high road to racial 
extinction." The seal of fate is stamped upon the 
true Londoners, and they are " a painfully deteri- 
orated type of humanity." The environment is 
"totally different from that in which the human 
race was evolved." 

If we think of it, the situation is hardly a possible 
one for the production of a healthy body or mind. 
The crowded room, the filthy street, the poor and 
adulterated milk, the devitalised air, the unlovely 
sights and sounds, the careless or dissipated or ill- 
instructed parents, the absence of almost everything 
that is beautiful and wholesome in nature for the 
building of the child, — these cannot allow a sturdy 
growth. 

" It is probable," says Dr. Campbell, " that all 
occupations which necessitate prolonged confinement 
from a tender age upwards are necessarily fatal, and 
certainly all those are which prevent the enjoyment 
of fresh air and proper bodily exercise from time to 
time." 

The necessity of fresh air we may take as an 
axiom, settled and incontrovertible. It is a food of 
the body which cannot be dispensed with, and much 



INTRODUCTION 37 

more, for it carries oif carbon from tlie lungs, and in 
doing so creates heat. Yet it remains unappreciated 
with the mass of our elementary-educated people. 

The conclusion must be that the close-built streets 
of a big town are totally unfit for the right develop- 
ment of children, and that, for their sake and for 
racial health, country surroundings or roomy towns 
with garden spaces for every house are indispensable. 

But it does not follow that conditions in the 
country will anyhow be fit or tolerable for the up- 
bringing of a strong people. Overcrowding in some 
parts of rural England is equal to that of some of the 
worst slums, and insanitary cottages, with a bad 
water-supply, are quite common. In most parts the 
young married labourer has great difficulty in obtaining 
a cottage at all, owdng to the fact that the land is 
devoted to game or pasture ; moreover, the cost of 
building and the senseless exotic bye-laws are pro- 
hibitive of profitable cottage-building. The custom is 
to build a labourer's cottage rather for charity than 
profit, and most disastrous it is. Every small house 
built for the labourer becomes a tax instead of a source 
of income, as it ought to be, for the landlord. The rent 
of a cottage and the labourer's wages are both too low. 
Usually the landlord builds a few show cottages and 
no more. The construction of small houses should be 
as cheap as possible. In many cases the materials 
might be provided, with which the labourer might 
build his own dwelling, as in Ireland, and a paying 
rent ought to be charged for the house with, say, half 
an acre or an acre attached to it. 

Both in France and in Enoland the evil of 
alcoholism decimates the rural population. The 



38 STRENGTH AND DIET 

peasant proprietors of France are at least as fatally 
subject to this weakness as the dependent labourers 
of our own country. 

The diet question is worthy of the attention of all 
patriotic citizens on account of alcohol alone. The 
Western nations may some day find that, in order to 
contend with rising powers in the Far East, it will be 
necessary to cultivate the sobriety and intelligence 
which contribute so conspicuously to the success of a 
nation under arms. The prospect for Europe in this 
respect alone is sufficiently grave to justify the calling 
of an International Congress to promote the emancipa- 
tion of the West from the ever-increasing oppression 
of intemperance. 

Lord Shaftesbury, who for about fifty years acted 
as a Commissioner in Lunacy, stated before a Select 
Committee in 1859 his opinion that half the lunatics 
in English asylums were there through drink. Later, 
in 1877, he stated to a Parliamentary Commission that 
he believed intemperance to be the cause of fully two- 
thirds of the insanity that prevailed either in drunkards 
themselves or in their children. That estimate was 
probably too high. 

A great deal of expert evidence gives something 
between one-third and a half as the proportion who 
have been made insane by alcoholic habits in Europe ; 
but it must be remembered that the ancestral influ- 
ence cannot be traced in many additional cases which 
indirectly follow the abuse. 

It is well known that the children of drunkards are 
often weak minded, imbecile, or diseased. Very many 
are weak in will, deficient in healthy blood and tissue ; 
very many are born without the proper stamina or 



INTRODUCTION 39 

capacity, and go to swell the degraded multitudes of 
congested towns. I remember what I suppose may be 
a typical case : the parents were fairly intelligent, but 
both drunkards ; the children were all imbecile. 

I have kept a very insufhcient record of reported 
crimes due to drink for three weeks, and this showed 
a numl)er of most atrocious murders and assaults, often 
on the same day, besides many suicides. To murder 
wife or children after being on the drink is quite an 
ordinary thing, and the horrible neglect, often fatal, 
of children by drunken mothers is too common to 
notice. 

As to crime resulting from alcoholic drink, the 
testimony of judges is abundant and conclusive. Mr. 
Justice Hawkins stated in 1877 that 75 per cent, was 
due to drink. Mr. Justice Denman had on one occasion 
to try thirty-six prisoners charged with offences of 
violence, of which six were murder ; all these were 
directly attributable to lic[uor. Baron Huddleston 
found almost all of forty -four cases due to excess ; Baron 
Dowse found drink at the bottom of almost every 
crime ; Sheriff Smith, of Dundee, found it to cause 
most of the misery and nine-tenths of the crime among 
the poor ; Mr. Horsley, the prison chaplain, declared 
that if drinking customs were to cease all the metro- 
politan prisons except Pentonville might be closed ; 
Lord Chief-Justice Coleridoje said that if we could 
make England sober we might shut up nine-tenths of 
the prisons. Mr. Chamberlain, on 1st January 1874, 
said that but for the drink " we should see our taxes 
reduced by millions sterling," and " our jails and 
workhouses empty," while more lives would be saved 
in a year than were destroyed in a century. Sir 



40 STRENGTH AND DIET 

William Harcourt asserted that " strong drink lies 
at the root of all the crime, and more deeply than any 
other cause affects the happiness and well-being of the 
people." Mr. Gladstone described the evils of alcoholic 
liquor as exceeding all the evils of war, pestilence, and 
famine. 

Clearly this branch alone of the diet question is not 
a trivial affair. 

What a orrand addition to the resources and trade 

o 

of the country would be the £140,000,000 now worse 
than wasted every year ! What an increase of house- 
room, furniture, comforts, industrial and agricultural 
prosperity would result ! and what an increase of 
physical and mental efficiency, again resulting in 
augmented prosperity ! 

The actual amount spent on intoxicating liquors in 
the United Kingdom in 1903 is given in the appended 
table,"' but for purposes of comparison of national gain 
and loss a deduction of thirty or forty millions must 
be made for the proportion of the amount paid for 
taxation, licences, etc. Of course a much larger sum 
might, on the other hand, be added for loss of health, 
efficiency, and time, for jails, workhouses, asylums, 
police, etc. 

Cost per head. 





Spirits. 


Beer. 


Wine. 




s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


England . 


23 9i 


56 


6 4f 


Scotland . 


42 11 


16 6| 


5 5| 


Ireland . 


27 4 


34 51 


2 10 



Total. 



Other 
Liquors. 

d. £ s. d. 

10 4 7 

2| 3 5 

21 3 4 10 



The total average per head was £4, 2s. 4d. An 
average family of five spends £20, lis. 8d., or 8s. a 



INTRODUCTION 41 

week, on liquor. Excluding women, children, and 
abstainers, the drinkers spend £7, 9s. 8d. per head. 
A grown up family of five, all alcohol drinkers, spends 
£39, 8s. 4d. per annum. The pure alcohol consumed 
is about 89,646,519 gallons. The total liquor bill for 
1903 was £174,445,271. This amount is larger than 
the whole income of all our railways for passengers 
and goods, the whole cost of our public education, 
including the universities, and the whole income of all 
clergy and ministers together. It is equal to the 
whole rental of all the ordinary dwellings of artisans 
and labourers in town and country. 

The Report of the Interdepartmental Committee on 
Physical Deterioration shows that the late Inspector- 
General of Recruitino- and the Director-General of the 
Army Medical Department attributed the alarming 
figures, which have been largely quoted in the press 
as showing physical deterioration, rather to the inferior 
class of men now drawn to the recruiting centres than 
to any widespread falling ofi" in physique. 

They reported further to the following eff'ect : — 
Factory children of factory parents compare unfavour- 
ably with others, and the rate of mortality, especially 
of infants, is unduly high in factory districts. 

The urban population is now 11 per cent, of the 
whole ; fifty years ago it was just over 50 per cent. 
But " urban " merely signifies districts with an urban 
organisation, and includes many small towns which are 
as healthy as rural districts. 

Of all the agencies to produce the survival of the 
fittest, disease is the worst, for the injury to those that 
survive is so great that all measures which combat 
disease tend to improve the race. 



42 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Urbauisation has been attended by three evil con- 
sequences considered in the report — pollution of the 
air, overcrowding, and bad conditions of employment. 

According to Dr. Eichholz the children frequenting 
the poorer schools of London and the large towns show 
" a most serious condition of affairs, calling for amelior- 
ative and arrestive measures, the most impressive 
features being the apathy of parents as regards the 
school, the lack of parental care of children, the poor 
physique, power of endurance, and educational attain- 
ments of the children." In the better town districts 
there are schools frequented hy children equal or 
superior in physique and attainments to country 
children. There is reason " to anticipate rapid amelior- 
ation of physique so soon as improvement occurs in 
external conditions, — particularly as regards food, 
clothing, overcrowding, cleanliness, drunkenness, and 
the spread of common practical knowledge of home 
management." 

The rapid falling off in physique of girls going from 
school to work is accounted for by the conditions 
under which they work, rest, and feed. 

"Lunacy," according to evidence, "increases with 
the rise of wages and the greater spending power of 
the operative class ; a falling wage rate is associated 
with a decrease of drunkenness, crime, and lunacy." 

The Committee think that, with a view of setting 
a term to the immense evils of overcrowding and 
consequent degeneration, after a given date the local 
authority should notify that no one-roomed, two- 
roomed, or three-roomed tenements would be allowed 
to contain more than two, four, or six [grown up ?] 
persons respectively. 



INTRODUCTION 43 

A system of "zones" or "lungs," consisting of 
unbuilt-on spaces about towns, is recommended, and 
air-ways of sufficient breadth, avenues, towards the 
centre of large towns. 

" The close connection between a craving for drink 
and bad housing, bad feeding, and polluted and de- 
pressing atmosphere, long hours of work, ... is too 
self-evident to need demonstration." 

Dr. Scott puts alcohol first among the " influences 
that retard improvement." Mrs. Mackenzie expressed 
the general view, when she said that if the drink 
question w^ere removed three-fourths of the difficulty, 
and the poverty and degradation altogether, would go 
along with it. " People who have not enough food 
turn to drink to satisfy their cravings." 

Over-drinking and drunkenness among women was 
found to be certainly increasing, with consequences 
" extremely prejudicial " to the offspring. Liquor clubs 
are common among girls at the potteries and in factories. 

Dr. Eccles stated that " if the mother as w^ell as the 
father is given to drink, the progeny will deteriorate 
in every way, and the future of the race is imperilled." 

From certain insurance tables, it appears that of 
61,215 men between 25 and 65, 1000 die in one year, 
but of 61,215 publicans, 1642 die in one year, while 
of Rechabite abstainers, only 560 die. The greater 
vitality of the temperate is shown Ijy the fact that out 
of 100,000 persons of the general population, 44,000 
would reach the age of 70, but of abstainers over 
55,000. 

In summing up the influences of alcoholism, Dr. 
Robert Jones states : " Alcohol perverts the moral 
nature, affects the judgment, and impairs the memory ; 



44 STRENGTH AND DIET 

it, moreover, especially affects the mental system, and 
creates an enormous loss to the community through 
destroying the productiveness of the skilled craftsman." 
" Forty-two per cent, of all periodic inebriates 
relate a history of either drink, insanity, or epilepsy, 
in their ancestors." 

Food. — As regards food proper, the Committee 
noted a striking consensus of opinion as to the effects 
of the character and amount of foods in determining 

o 

physique, and this factor was acknowledged hy every 
witness to he prominent among the causes to tvhich 
degenerative tendencies might he assigned. 

In former times, said Dr. Purdon, children lived on 
oatmeal and buttermilk and potatoes, but the town 
children now live on tea, white bread, and jam. 
Similarly Dr. Robert Hutchison, who has great know- 
ledge of the subject, said, " If I were asked to state the 
chief fault in the diet of the working classes of this 
country, I should say it is the excessive use of tea and 
bread." The money spent on tea m^ight tvith much 
greater p>roJit he spent on other things. And it pro- 
duces much anaemia and neurosis. Dr. Hutchison 
would like to see porridge and milk in the place of 
bread and jam. The Bishop of Ross said the Irish 
peasantry have come to regard bread and tea as a 
higher and better class of food than potatoes or 
porridge and milk, and " this mistaken idea grows more 
obdurate every day." 

Evidence from Manchester states that a fruitful 
and little suspected cause of deterioration lies in the 
habit of tea-drinkinoj at breakfast and other times in 
the factories and foundries, A strong mixture or stew 



IXTRODUCTION 45 

of tea is drunk four or five times a day by hundreds of 
young people, causing varicocele and other serious evils. 
The chief recruiting officer in Manchester rejected a 
very large number of young men on account of ailments 
due to tea-drinking. 

Dr. Hawkes found in Finsbury that the women and 
girls drank three or four pints of tea poison in the day, 
and their solid meals often consisted of pickles and 
vinegar. An enormous amount of dyspepsia is thus 
set up, often finally leading to alcoholism for relief. 
Many stint themselves terribly in order to afford more 
expense in personal adornment. 

Tinned food has to a very large extent replaced 
fresh, and is even largely consumed in the country, 
where milk and fruit ought to be available. 

The question of infant feeding is dealt with, and to 
the same intent as we have already noticed. The 
Committee are informed by the highest authority, that 
modified cow's milk is by far the best alternative to 
breast feeding. Of the cause of the loss of breast-milk 
in highly civilised people, " the medical profession are 
in ig;norance." Even in Ireland sucklin^ "is fast 
dying out." In both English and Irish country dis- 
tricts, however, it is still not uncommon. Tinned milk 
as a substitute is condemned, on account of its expen- 
siveness and the way in which it is used, but not if used 
with proper understanding. At Liverpool, for every 
death from diarrhoea among breast-fed, there were 22 
among infants fed artificially. 

Farms from which milk is sent to towns are often 
exceedingly filthy, and when it reaches the consumer it 
is badly contaminated. The cows are most filthy when 
milked, the milkers arc dirty, their vessels are dirty. 



46 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The cowsheds are in many cases badly ventilated and 
drained, and are overcrowded. In one London district, 
52 per cent of the milk shops were found to have one 
or more sanitary defects, and 73 per cent, of the milk 
vendors failed to keep their milk protected from dust. 
Of 25 milks examined in Finsbury in 1903, 32 per cent, 
contained pus, and 40 per cent, contained dirt. 

Milk on leavino- the cow should at once be reduced 
to 40 degrees, kept cool, and transmitted straight to 
the consumer, who should be instructed how to keep 
it in a safe condition. 

"Food," said Dr. Eichholz, "is the point about 
which turns the whole problem of degeneracy." 

He estimates the number of underfed children in 
the London schools at 122,000. At one school he 
considered that 90 per cent, were unable to work 
properly owing to underfeeding. Other important 
witnesses give the proportion at much less. 

Mr. Dolamore, on behalf of the British Dental 
Association, expressed himself as having no doubt that 
bad teeth are a condition of the feeding that accom- 
panies high civilisation. There is no ground, however, 
apparently for associating dental degeneracy necessarily 
with progressive physical degeneration, and the richer 
classes in respect of teeth are among the worst. 

In the opinion of the Director- General of the 
Army Medical Service, " were all classes of the 
community able to provide their offspring with ample 
food and air-space, a healthy race would be produced." 

The Committee recommend national instruction 
in schools on the care of health, includino; the demon- 
stration of the physical evils caused by alcoholic 
drinking. The report deserves the most careful study. 



INTRODUCTION 47 

Much as some of us may wish to dismiss the 
subject of food from discussion (and I agree with 
these), we cannot but recognise that in the present 
state of the workl wrong habits of eating and drinking 
are responsible for an immense dissemination of pain 
in a great variety of diseases ; a very large increase 
in atilictions of the nerves, the internal organs, and 
the brain ; a mass of preventible poverty, misery, 
and crime ; and a very general absence of that con- 
dition of abounding vitality which constitutes a chief 
element in happiness. 

It is one thing to care little about food and drink, 
in the sense of being satisfied with simj^le fare of a 
wholesome sort ; it is another thing to be careless as 
to the effects of various unnatural foods on the body 
and on the high qualities of a race, to be apathetic 
to the awful human sufferings caused by unfit articles 
of consumption, and to tolerate, 'pari passu, an inferno 
of suffering in the passage of harmless fellow-creatures 
to the slaughter. 

There are large populations which do not develop 
stamina approaching that of which, with proper food, 
they are found to be capable, and the efficiency of 
these can be greatly raised by a mere change in the 
quality and quantity of the aliment. In highly civil- 
ised communities the natural instinct which rejects 
meat and drink of a destructive character becomes 
blunted, so that personal choice and taste turn traitors, 
and whole races of the finest people of the world lose 
in a few generations much of their pre-eminence, and 
tend to extinction. The man or woman, especially 
in the most progressive communities and in the most 
intellectual classes, is frequently a victim of some 



48 STRENGTH AND DIET 

disease which greatly impairs body or mind, owing to 
the habitual fare having contained some substance 
which has acted like a slow poison on the system, never 
allowing it full vigour, or stimulating it to a danger- 
ously accumulated robustness, to be knocked suddenly 
to pieces by illness. The loss of efficiency to the 
community, and of happiness to the subjects of these 
undermining ingesta, would make inquiry into the 
subject of diet desirable on this ground alone. 

The public, however, is far from realising the im- 
portance of Ijotli quality and quantity in ordinary diet. 
There are thousands of well-to-do people, including 
very many, no doubt, among legislators and councillors, 
who only laugh at the idea suggested of damage by 
the daily dram taken to counteract a "sinking" 
sensation, or to precede or finish a meal, or else by 
the daily feast which costs enough to support a family 
for a month. The advertisements of specific cures for 
internal ills which everywhere disfigure town and 
country, and hit us from the pages of newspapers, 
signify the existence of an appalling amount of un- 
necessary disease, and an equally appalling ignorance, 
which flies to impostures for temporary relief, and 
never alters the habits which permanently incapacitate 
the protecting organs of the insulted body. 

Well qualified observers have computed that in 
civilised countries like England and the United States, 
fully half the prevalent illness is the result of mistakes 
in diet, including drink. It is certain that, if we may 
judge by the condition of previous and contemporary 
plain -living people, a very large proportion of the 
cases of malignant disease and of insanity would not 
occur with a reasonable diet. 



INTRODUCTION 49 

Accordino" to statistics, these disorders are rapidly 
increasing in civilised countries. At least 25 per cent. 
of cases of mental dislocation are attributed by medical 
authorities to the direct and indirect effects of alcohol 
alone, and of this the consumj)tion has rapidly in- 
creased, especially among women. 

A medical man has given the following list of 
disorders in which digestion is concerned, and which 
are therefore more or less dependent on the character 
of the nutriment supplied to the long-enduring 
stomach : — Acidity, narcomania, biliousness, bladder, 
kidney, and brain troubles ; impure blood, nervous 
tremblings, etc. ; cancer, stomach catarrh, consumption 
(alcoholic), coughs of many kinds, cramp, depression, 
eczema, fainting fits, gastritis, diseased liver, gout, 
gravel, headache, heart troubles of various kinds, 
hypochondria, hysteria, stoppage of bowels, jaundice, 
lumbago, lung troubles, neuralgia, noises in the ears, 
drunkard's paralysis, piles, rheumatism, sleeplessness, 
shingles, decayed teeth, dyspepsia, and ursemia. 

This list sounds exaggerated, but it falls short of 
the reality. xVdd to these the hundreds of thousands 
whose days are depressed and whose nights are broken, 
but who ought to be fully enjoying life. 

Anyone who has grasped the truth that, of all 
the painful cases of the sick, of the suffering, of the 
wrecks of health and strength, of children badly 
developed, deficient in intelligence, vigour, and joy, 
of victims to alcoliol and other stimulants, or to 
narcotics, of persons breaking down with frequent 
bodily miseries, and of early deaths, a very large 
proportion would not have come to pass if the national 
habits had been based on sense and frugality, witli a 



50 STRENGTH AND DIET 

little scientific contrivance, — such an one cannot look 
unmoved at the stupendous errors now destroying 
families, bringing heavy sorrow to thousands, and 
involving, if continued, the fall of a great people. 

Close aggregation destroys healthy ways of living. 
Compared with the 1)ig town, menaces that call forth 
armies are negligible ; compared with excess in 
stimulants, arsenic and strychnine are of little account 
as poisons. Whole tribes have been swept away by 
liquor, wdiom hardship and famine had little aftected. 
Nations have gone down under luxury and self- 
indulgence, who could hardly have been conquered 
in a held of battle. 

The faces seen at the factory door, and in the 
quarters of crowded labour, indicate a condition far 
removed from the sound enjoyment of life in countries 
where luxury and degraded poverty are both un- 
known. The hospitals of the industrial city are 
crowded with patients who never learnt the first 
rules in the art or science of living. Half of the 
wages of multitudes of workers is spent on means 
of rapid or slow self-destruction. A host exceeding 
half the population of London begs every year for 
aid at the London hospitals and dispensaries. The 
total number of in- and out-patients at the London 
hospitals a few years ago was as 1 to 4 of the 
inhabitants; in 1902, the proportion was very nearly 
1 to 2, The actual number of patients was 2,098,905, 
an appalling register, when every allowance is made ; 
44 per cent, of these were surgical cases, 31 medical, 
25 were of children and special diseases. I suppose 
that in a healthy country district the proportion 
formerly would hardly have been 1 in 20 or 1 in 30, 



INTRODUCTION 51 

and in a normal right-living population it should be 
much less. Mr. Sydney Holland stated in 1903 that 
the London Hospital had, in 1902, of in-patients 
13,160, of out-patients 162,147, equal to 66|- miles 
of people standing side by side. 

I shall adduce ample evidence to prove that a very 
large portion of these victims are brought to illness by 
their own failings in regard to alimentation. 

The needless wrecking of health is not confined to 
the poor and uneducated, but extends to the rich, and 
very conspicuously to the highest in intellect, for their 
sufferings and loss of elHciency are most severe. Many 
of the greatest brain workers have undergone inexpres- 
sible trials from lack of adjustment in the matter of 
diet. De Quincey was utterly prostrated with " nervous 
horror," " deranged liver," "incapacity for food," and 
lost " all powder of thinking at all." Carlyle had 
" nameless struggles and miseries," " dyspepsia like a 
rat gnawing," moods "tragical, gloomy, weary, dis- 
pirited, sick"; he was "all palpitating, liuttered with 
sleeplessness"; these attacks were long-continued, and 
terribly spoilt a great part of his life. Darwin spoke 
of " not one whole day without my stomach greatly 
disordered, and most days great prostration of health," 
" wretched digestive organs," " life a burden," and for 
the greatest part of his life he was obliged to remain 
much in retirement owing to such troubles. Huxley 
endured great depression and want of energy, and 
described himself as "in for lifelong dyspepsia." After 
being " worried almost to death," at last, by greatly 
reducing his diet, and cutting off alcohol and tobacco, 
freeing himself, as he expresses it, from " gross intem- 
perance," he became as vigorous as ever he was in his 



52 STRENGTH AND DIET 

life. Robert BrowniiiG: suffered at one time from " a 
state of nervous prostration and physical apathy." 
Herbert Spencer was perforce an invalid during a large 
part of his life, painfully sensitive and subject to dis- 
orders of the digestion and nerves.-® 

Such heavy troubles of original workers did not, I 
think, much affect the great men of early times, or 
those who lived with unusual frugality, like Benjamin 
Franklin. They belong to the time of excitant foods 
and drinks, the time of flesh, strong tea, sedentary 
pursuits, and many distractions, of which, perhaps, 
news and business letters coming daily are not the 
least. 

It has been proved by the experience of athletes, 
and of leaders of men during great crises, when they 
had need of all their energies, that by care and frugality 
in diet they are enabled to bear the stress of conflict 
with equanimity. Probably the men of intellect above 
quoted had not found the appropriate training and diet 
for the due exercise of their mental task, else they 
w^ould have escaped the greater part of their distress. 
Mental as well as physical efficiency is dependent on 
the proportion and quality of the ingesta, and on the 
avoidance of poisonous matter which accumulates, 
especially in the , body unpurified by oxygen and 
exercise. 

Alimentation is clearly a subject of national concern. 
Armies and navies are now pretty well provided with a 
scientific dietary, and the heavy mortality which for- 
merly accompanied the provision of improper food is 
not likely to occur again, except by accident. It is 
equally desirable, in the long-run, that the population 
which supplies army, navy, and all the industrial 



INTRODUCTION 53 

strength of the empire with raw material should ])e 
raised to a high level of efhcieiicy. 

A general dissemination of sound teaching on the 
properties of food, on food values, and on the fitness of 
certain dietaries for the sustenance of health, will do a 
very great deal for the prevention of disabling illness 
in all classes of the community. Like other reforms 
touching personal habits, it is difficult to apply, and 
prejudice is so strong that the victim can seldom be 
persuaded of error without a violent demonstration 
from his own constitution. But oradual chancres do 
take place in the community which lead to a healthier 
environment, and the degeneration, or, at anyrate, un- 
satisfactory physical condition, of a great mass of the 
population is beginning to be so widely realised that 
physical culture will take a much more prominent place 
in the education of the future. 

A recent editorial article of the British Medical 
Journal^^ observes that " the quantity and quality of 
the food daily consumed plays such a large part in the 
maintenance of health, and in the treatment of disease, 
that it is rather remarkable that closer attention has 
not been paid to this important question. . . . The 
study of dietetics should be looked upon as very nearly, 
if not quite, as important as the study of therapeutics." 

Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D., F.R.S., states : 
" This question of food is one of primary importance, 
far more so than education." 

A discourse of Socrates, touching not only on food, 
but luxury in general, which follows the deviation from 
frugal living, reveals his strongly held conviction that 
luxurious habits lead to disease, war, and " almost all 
the evils in states, public and private."^*' 



54 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The experiences of eminent workers, relating to 
errors in matters of diet, are repeated to some degree 
in millions of their fellow-countrymen. The well-being 
of a nation is, after all, dependent on the vigour 
of its component parts ; and Huxley's saying, already 
quoted, that care for the digestion means care for the 
brain, has the most important bearing on national 
efficiency. 

The general intelligence and the success of the 
Japanese people, who are described as " the most 
vesretarian race on earth," ^^ cannot but be connected 
with their abstemious habits. Travellers in rural 
China are almost unanimous in laying emphasis on 
the extraordinary physical capacity and endurance of 
her people. In some respects they are crude, senseless, 
and obstinately conservative, but they have the physical 
basis of success. The majority are landholders. 

Pasteur has declared that man has the power to 
banish infectious diseases from the face of the earth, 
and De Chaumont that there is not a spot on the 
globe where a man may not be kept in health and 
vigour by hygiene. Ignorance, lack of will, and fatal- 
ism meanwhile keep us in bonds. 

These opinions are weighty, and they are confirmed 
by everyday and common observation, but at the same 
time they are not generally appreciated. 

Even among members of the medical profession, 
the part played by diet in health and disease is only 
rarely much studied or rated at its proper value. 

Parents are most lamentably ignorant of the effect 
of various foods, drinks, and adulterants in continual 
use, and have the power, which very few exercise, of 



INTRODUCTION 55 

greatly increasing the strength and well-l)eing of their 
children by simplifying their meals. 

Many books exist, some of them excellent, and the 
result of prolonged scientific investigation, on the 
nature of foods, and their chemical composition, on 
food values, and on the amount of proteid, carbo- 
hydrates, etc., which should enter into the diet. In 
fact, the theoretical investigation of food has been 
rather fully treated. Books of much value have been 
written on parts of the subject with great amplitude 
of detail ; many of these I have quoted. 

But, so far as I know, and I have searched the 
British Museum and other libraries, no book has 
hitherto been published dealing comprehensively with 
the actual diet of races, nations, communities, and 
persons, and with health and strength in relation to 
these. Most books of travel despise the subject. 

If the Index of the Encyclopedia Britannica lie 
consulted, " strength " will be found to include much 
information relating to the strength of non-living 
materials, but no reference to strength of muscle. 
Tests of the strength of various races on a systematic 
plan are wanting. I have been quite unable to find 
anything of the kind, and therefore can only hope 
that the present volume will go some way towards 
supplying some part of the deficiency. The actual 
facts, derived from travellers and others, many of 
them competent and scientific, do, I think, when seen 
on a large scale, prove conclusively some propositions of 
the utmost import. 

A very strong tendency prevails among scien- 
tific Societies, and the same tendency atfects Royal 
Commissions, public inquiries, and legislation, to 



56 STRENGTH AND DIET 

overestimate laboratory experiments or scientific 
insh'iunental experiments on a small scale, and to 
underestimate l)roadly - extended and long - enduring 
experiments under natural conditions. We fail to 
realise that there are going on around us, without 
premeditation, countless experiments of equal value, at 
least if they are carefully checked and made use of, to 
the accurate tests of physiology with every logical aid. 

This tendency I have seen often acting rather as 
a diversion and hindrance to common-sense measures 
than as a decisive factor in the rapid advancement of 
a true policy. It is more striking and more inhibitive 
of progress in the physiological field than in others, 
but pervades the mental disposition of our time. 

A trivial example may illustrate the insecurity of 
a strict, but not sufficiently conclusive, method of 
test subjects. For many years suggestions were made 
that railway carriage doors might, for the conveni- 
ence of the public, be made with, inside handles. The 
argument against them alw^ays assumed the folly of 
passengers, and the great danger to children and 
reckless persons who w^ould insist on falling out in a 
manner distressing to the Company. This theoretical 
and seemingly well-grounded objection sufficed for a 
long period. If a course of laboratory experiments, 
with compartments, some containing children, and 
some absent-minded or intoxicated persons, had been 
instituted, probably the danger would have been 
shown to be very real. If one child opened the 
door in 100 experiments, w^e might have calculated 
that since 10,000,000 children travel in the course 
of the year, 100,000 children w^ould ojDen the door 
and fall out on the railways of Great Britain. 



INTRODUCTION 



0/ 



But the innovation has been freely tried on a 
large scale, and what has been the result ? Very 
few accidents of the kind occur in a year ; little or 
DO excess is due to these handles, although on many 
lines most of the cars are provided with them. 

Similar o-roundless fears for a long time actuated 
railway directors against the provision of alarm signals 
from compartments to the guard. It was said that 
trains would be too often pulled up for slight reasons. 
Experiments on a small scale might have confirmed 
these fears. It was forgotten that experiments on a 
large scale were in perjDctual evidence, and that ner- 
vous old women, or mischievous boys, might easily 
have tried to stop a train with signals by voice or 
handkerchief. But they did not, nor do they now 
needlessly pull the cord. 

More important matters have been similarly 
treated. In several countries, for many years, a few 
simple rules, of which the chief was the muzzling of 
dogs, were found sufficient to prevent the worst of all 
diseases. Yet for many years false arguments were 
successfully used in England to show that such 
measures would be cruel and useless. The proofs 
in favour of muzzling were complete, but could not 
prevail against mere prejudices and fears. 

Similarly the examples of epidemics and of the 
means of preventing them in many places were 
not sufficient to convince the authorities of other 
places, who would not adopt proper precautions 
till the same experience occurred under their own 
eyes. They failed to recognise man or nature. 

This of course belongs to a very general defect 
of imagination, and it has been well suggested that 



58 STRENGTH AND DIET 

sanitary authorities would act more etficiently at a 
distance from tlieir own particular localit}^ 

Criticisms from outside, concerning both parishes 
and nations, would, if attended to, often bring greater 
benefit to the subject of observation than the happy- 
go-lucky confidence and arrogant assertions of " the 
man on the spot." Ignorance of local prejudices 
seems in many cases to increase the capacity for an 
able judgment, conducive to reform. 

Highly interesting scientific experiments have been 
made on the action of various foods and drinks on 
the human organism, and these afford most instructive 
data. But it is surely a very strange characteristic 
of our faculties of valuation that almost no attention 
has been paid to the great natural experiments which 
have been going on over vast spaces of the earth's 
surface, through ages of time, in almost every sort 
of climate and condition, in various races, civilised 
and uncivilised. These experiments are in reality 
incomparably superior to any possible local instru- 
mental researches, for they are conducted in the 
conditions, endlessly varied, of man's ordinary life, 
and with every circumstance which can test the 
validity of wide conclusions from wide data. Large 
natural results from certain natural causes are very 
commonly unimpressive. The prejudice may be akin 
to that which in religious bodies in various parts 
of the world denies any possible salvation to any 
person outside the particular communion. 

Fifty years ago most men would have required, 
at the least, definite scientific proof that one 
could live as well without alcohol as with it. The 
obvious testimony of millions of men existing in 



INTRODUCTION 59 

better health than oneself would have liad no 
effect. 

So to this day many of the intellectual and 
logical, as well as the ignorant, regard a iieshless diet 
as a fad, or a doubtful experiment, or a matter for 
scientific experimentation, wholly casting aside, for 
practical purposes, the facts that the majority of 
1 ,200,000,000 human beings have lived well with 
little or no sustenance from the flesh of beasts, that 
in all climates and conditions men thrive on a full and 
adequate humane diet, and that no laboratory experi- 
ments could be so convincing a demonstration of the 
practicability of that way of life as these multitudinous 
proofs in varied conditions. 

When elementary science becomes a necessary part 
of education, and scientific faculties are understood 
as constituting at least as useful, as indispensable, an 
equipment for life as reading or w^riting, a new era of 
advancement will beo-in. With the admirable move- 
ments of reform now acting upon many civilised 
nations, and the prospect of the rise of a science of 
sociology, which will affect both legislation and the 
ordinary ways of life among the multitude, there is 
reason for hope. When faith declares itself in a 
common habit of reliofious consideration for the life 
of the generations to come, the amelioration of the 
lot of humanity will be assured. 



CHAPTER I 

Opinions of Great Naturalists, Physiologists, and 
Chemists, ox the Proper Diet of Man — 
Animal or Vegetable ? 

The testimony of Cuvier, in his great work on The 
Animal Kiyigdom,^ is as follows : " The natural food 
of man, judging from his structure, appears to consist 
of fruits, roots, and the succulent parts of vegetables ; 
his hands offer him every facility for gathering them ; 
his short, but moderately strong jaws, on the one hand, 
and his canine being equal in length to the remaining 
teeth, and his tubercular molars, on the other, would 
allow him neither to feed on grass nor to devour flesh, 
were these aliments not previously prepared by cooking. 
Once, however, possessed of fire, and those arts by 
wdiich he is aided in seizing animals or killing them at 
a distance, every living being was rendered subservient 
to his nourishment, thereby giving him the means of 
an infinite multiplication of his species. 

" The organs of digestion are in conformity with 
those of manducation ; his stomach is simple ; his in- 
testinal canal of moderate length, the great intestines 
well marked, his caecum short and thick, and augmented 
by a small appendage, and his liver divided into only 
tw^o large lobes and one small one ; his epiplosa 
hangs in front of the intestines, and extends into the 

60 



PROPER DIET OF MAN Gl 

pelvis. . . . An evil still more irremediable is the 
abuse of physical powers : now that man can only in- 
jure man, he is continually seeking to do so, and is the 
only animal upon earth that is for ever at war with his 
own species. . . . Even civilised nations, far from being- 
contented with their blessings, pour out each others' 
blood for the prerogatives of pride, or the monopoly of 
trade." 

Sir Richard Owen, in his Odontography,'^ wrote : 
"The apes and monkeys, which man most nearly 
resembles in his dentition, derive their staple foods 
from fruits, grain, the kernels of nuts, and other 
forms in which the most sapid and nutritious tissues 
of the vegetable kingdom are elaljorated ; and the 
close resemblance between the quadrumanous and 
human dentition shows that man was, from the be- 
ginning, more especially adapted to eat of the fruit 
of the trees of the garden. [This, adds Sir Richard 
Owen, is the conclusion to which my friend Mr. Bell 
(afterwards Sir Charles Bell, F.R.S.) has arrived in his 
physiological observations on The Natural Food of Man 
(1829, p. 33)]. But the quadrumana are not exclusively 
fru2:ivorous. Some are known to seek the eoo-g and 
callow-brood of birds. The African baboons pass whole 
hours in turning up great stones in quest of insects. 
The young chimpanzees and orangs in our menageries 
manifest no repugnance to cooked meat, and the avidity 
with which they will pluck and devour a sparrow leads 
us to suspect that their vegetable diet is occasionally 
varied by the captui-e of a live bird." He then shows 
that the formidable canine teeth of orangs and baboons 
are for combat and defence, not for flesh-eating. " The 
molar teeth are those which form alwavs the best and 



62 STRENGTH AND DIET 

sometimes the sole guides to a knowledge of the diet of 
a mammiferous animal, and these clearly indicate the 
frugivorous and mixed regimen of the quadrumana and 
man." 

Sir Charles Bell, F.R.S., wrote:' "It is, I think, 
not going too far to say that every fact connected with 
the human organisation goes to prove that man was 
originally formed a frugivorous animal. This opinion 
is principally derived from the formation of his teeth 
and dioestive orsrans, as well as from the character of 
his skin and the general structure of his limbs." 

John Hunter, the great anatomist, concluded :* 
" Man ought therefore to be considered a compound, 
equally fitted to live upon flesh and upon vegetables." 

Linna3us ' spoke of fruit as the species of food most 
suitable to man, " wdiich is evinced by the series of 
quadrupeds — analogy, wild men, apes — the structure 
of the mouth, of the stomach, and the hands." 

Gassendi,'' who was born in 1592, and was a 
professor of philosophy, a student of anatomy and 
physiology, insisted that, from physiological reasons, 
especially the structure of the teeth, man was destined 
for a food, not of flesh, but of fruits. 

The great botanist Ray " declared that whatsoever 
food is necessary to sustain us, whatsoever contributes 
to delight and refresh us, is supplied and brought forth 
by plants. " Certainly man was never made to be a 
carnivorous creature." 

The writer of the article "Dietetics," Dr. T. K. 
Chambers, in the Encydopeedia Britannica,^ said : 
" The discovery already mentioned of the production 
of force from the assimilation of starch leads to the 
knowledge, opposed to old prejudice, but supported 



propp:ii diet of iMAN es 

by experience, that the raising oi the energies to their 
full height of usefulness may be effected by vegetable 
food quite as well as by the more stimulating and more 
expensive animal nutriment, or by the more rapidly 
absorbed alcohol." 

[In another part (earlier) of the same article, the 
writer expresses the opinion that "it is absolutely 
necessary that the fleshly machinery should be con- 
tinuously replaced by flesh food, as it becomes worn 
out." This seems to conform to the old view,] 

The author of Kirke's Handhooh of Physiology^' 
which is edited by Morant Baker, says : " The chief 
ordinary articles of vegetable food contain substances 
identical in composition with the albumen, fi brine, 
and caseine, which constitute the principal nutritive 
materials in animal food. Albumen is abundant in 
the juices and seeds of nearly all vegetables ; the 
gluten which exists, especially in corn and other seeds 
of grasses as well as in their juices, is identical in 
composition with fibrine, and is commonly named 
vegetable fibrine ; and the substance named legumen, 
which is obtained principally from peas, beans, and 
other seeds of leguminous plants, and from the potato, 
is identical with the caseine of milk. All these veoe- 
table substances are, ecjually with the corresponding- 
animal principles and in the same manner, capable 
of conversion into blood and tissues ; and, like the 
blood and tissues in l)oth classes of animals, the 
nitrogenous food of both may be regarded as in 
essential respects similar. . . . That the final destination 
of the ternary principles is the same in both cases is 
almost proved by the ability of man and many other 
animals to subsist and apparently maintain an identical 



64 STRENGTH AND DIET 

composition and uniform temperature with food of 
either kind." 

Sir Benjamin Richardson, ^*^ the distinguished physi- 
ologist, gives the following statement : " Man, although 
possessing the capacity for existing on an animal diet 
in whole or in part, is by original caste adapted to a 
diet of grain and fruit, and, on a scientific adaptation 
of his natural supplies, might easily be provided with 
all he can require from that source of subsistence. The 
vegetable world is incomparable in its efficiency for 
the supply of food for man, when its resources are 
thoroughly understood and correctly applied. The 
supplies of food for man are most economically and 
.safely drawn direct from the vegetable world." 

Professor Michael Foster, F. K.S., in the Text-Book 
of Physiology, writes : " Vegetable proteids appear to 
undergo the same changes in the alimentary canal 
as do animal proteids, and the main effects, on the 
body, of proteids from the two sources seem to be 
the same." 

Professor Edmund Parkes, M.D., F.R.S., stated ^^ 
that "the chemical composition of animal and vege- 
table albuminates is very similar, and they manifestly 
serve equal purposes in the body. The meat-eater, 
and the man who Jives on corn or peas and rice, are 
equally well nourished." 

Professor Voit, one of the most eminent German 
physiologists, who has made many important experi- 
ments on the food of man, recently declared : " I see 
no reason why man, with well-chosen vegetable food, 
need 0:0 to the animal kinodom for albuminous 
matter." '^ 

^Ir, John Smith, a careful student of the anatomical 



1 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 65 

and biological charactez" of the body iu relation to food, 
wrote/^ but more fully than can here be represented, 
that the present constitution of man, like the original, 
is best fitted for a diet derived directly from the 
vegetable kingdom. Keen scent, strong talons, a 
simple stomach, a short alimentary canal, sharp angular 
teeth, and a cunning disposition generally mark the 
carnivorous animal. The canine teeth are long, 
conical, acute, and strong ; there is not the slightest 
resemblance between these cuspids and the so-called 
" canine " teeth of man. In the horse, camel, and 
stag they are pointed and large, much larger than 
in man ; yet it is not contended, as in the case of 
man, that these beasts should be carnivorous to act 
up to their dental outfit. The cheek-teeth in the 
lower jaw of man are, like those of herbivorous and 
frugivorous animals, simply raised into rounded ele- 
vations, and directly opposed to the upper teeth. In 
the carnivora these lower teeth are shut within the 
upper, so as to tear and cut flesh. The lateral motion 
of the jaws in man is like that of the frugivora, and 
quite unlike the motion up and down in the carnivora. 
The secretion from the salivary glands, especially in 
vegetarian races, is in man like that of the herbivora, 
though the glands are smaller. The stomach is some- 
thing between that of most carnivora and most herbi- 
vora. Again, in the immense number of perspiratory 
glands of the skin, man differs from carnivora. 

Prof. William Lawrence, F.R.S., Professor of Ana- 
tomy and Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons, 
in his Lectures there, stated " that vegetable diet is as 
little connected with weakness and cowardice as that 
of animal matter is with physical force and courage. 
5 



66 STRENGTH AND DIET 

That meu can be perfectly nourished, and their bodily 
and mental capabilities be fully developed in any 
climate by a diet purely vegetable, admits of abundant 
proof from experience." Animal food, he affirmed, is 
also " quite consistent with the greatest strength of 
body and most exalted energy of mind ; this truth is 
proclaimed by the voice of all history." 

" The teeth of man have not the slightest resem- 
blance to those of the carnivorous animals, except that 
their enamel is confined to the external surface. He 
possesses, indeed, teeth called canine, but they do not 
exceed the level of the others, and are obviously 
unsuited to the purposes which the corresponding teeth 
execute in carnivorous animals. The obtuse tubercles 
of the human molars have not the most remote re- 
semblance to the pointed projections of these teeth in 
carnivorous animals ; they are as clearly distinguished 
from the fiat crowns with intermixed enamel of 
the herbivorous molars. In the freedom of lateral 
motion, however, the human inferior maxilla more 
nearly resembles that of the herbivora. 

" The teeth and jaws of men are in all respects 
much more similar to those of monkeys than of any 
other animals. . . . 

" In the proper carnivorous animals, the alimentary 
canal is very short. . . . Men will be placed on the 
same line with the monkey race, and will be removed 
to a considerable distance from the proper carnivora. 

" A skull of the orang-utang has the first set of 
teeth ; the number is the same as in man, and the 
form so closely similar that they might easily be 
mistaken for human. In most other simise the 
canine teeth are much larger and stronger than in 



PROPER DIET OF MAN Q>7 

us. . . . [Yet tliey are all, on the whole, vegetable 
feeders.] 

" Thus we lind that, whether we consider the teeth 
and jaws, or the immediate instruments of digestion, 
the human structure closely resembles that of the 
simise, all of which, in their natural state, are com- 
pletely herbivorous. [By herbivorous is, no doubt, 
meant eaters of the products of plants.] 

" Man possesses a tolerably large csecum, and a 
cellular colon, which, I believe, are not found in any 
carnivorous animal. 

" I do not infer from these circumstances that man 
is designed by nature to feed on vegetables, or that 
it would be more advantageous to him to adopt that 
diet. . . . 

" Before venturing to draw any inferences on a 
subject beset with so many obstacles, it would be 
necessary to observe the effects of a purely animal 
and purely vegetable diet on several individuals of 
different habits, pursuits, and modes of life ] to note 
their state, both bodily and mental ; and to learn 
the condition of two or three generations fed in the 
same manner." [The results of such experiments, on 
a large scale, will appear in the present volume.] 

In a note, Professor Lawrence mentions an orauo-- 
utang which naturally preferred fruit, but on shipboard 
was induced to eat flesh, and quickly became car- 
nivorous. "At present" (December 1818) "his diet 
is vegetable, both from his own choice and because it 
agrees much best ivith hirii" 

The chief biological testimony to the character of 
human organs in relation to food may be summed 
up as follows : — The size and character of the stomach 



68 STRENGTH AND DIET 

colon, intestinal danal, and other organs are like those 
of the ape, not like those of the carnivora and herbi- 
vora. The carnivora have claws, a rasping tongue, 
pointed molar teeth, small salivary glands, a simple 
and rounded stomach, a smooth colon, and an intestinal 
canal three times the length of the body. Man has 
nails, a smooth tongue, blunt molar teeth, well- 
developed salivary glands, a stomach with a duodenum, 
a convoluted colon, and an intestinal canal twelve 
times the length of the body. Saliva in carnivora 
is acid, in man alkaline. 

Mr. E. B. Tylor, author of Primitive Culture, 
states ^^ that Dr. Prichard, who perhaps deserves, more 
than an3'0ne else, the title of founder of modern 
anthropology,, puts the relation of man, physically, to 
the lower animals strongly in a passage of his Natural 
History of Man, which he quotes. The following 
extracts must suffice here : — " The points of resem- 
blance are innumerable ; they extend to the most 
recondite arrangements of that mechanism which main- 
tains instrumentally the physical life of the body, 
which brings forward its early development, and 
admits, after a given period, its decay, and by means 
of which is prepared a succession of similar beings 
destined to perpetuate the race." 

" Among the present generation of naturalists," 
says Mr. Tylor, " there is an evident tendency to fall 
in with the opinion that the anatomical differences 
which separate the gorilla and chimpanzee from man 
are in some respects less than those which separate 
these man-like apes from apes lower in the scale. 
Yet naturalists agree to place both the higher and 
the lower apes in the same order." Prof Alfred R. 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 69 

Wallace places man " apart, as not only the head 
and culminating point of the grand series of organic 
nature, but as, in some degree, a new and distinct 
order of being." 

Mr. Thomson, in his Study of Animal Life, 
quoting Sir Richard Owen's assertion of the " all- 
pervading similitude of structure " between man and 
the highest apes, says that subsequent research has 
continued to add corroboratino- details. Man and 

o 

gorilla differ less than gorilla and marmoset. " The 
bodily life of man is like that of monkeys ; both are 
subject to the same diseases ; . . . there are about 
seventy vestigial structures." ^^ 

Dr. Alfred R. Wallace fully accepts Mr. Darwin's 
conclusion as to the bodily structure and descent from 
some common ancestral form, but " a change in essential 
nature took place, due probably to causes of a higher 
order than those of the material universe." 

In Dr. D. J. Hamilton's view : ^'^ "Man, like other 
animals, was naturally intended to lead an outdoor 
life. He was originally a hunter and tiller of the 
ground, breathing a pure atmosphere, living on a 
fruo'al diet, and exercisino- his muscles. Wherever 
these conditions are infringed, his powers of resist- 
ance to disease are lessened." 

Charles Darwin stated that in ancient times man 
probably subsisted upon fruit. ^' He has also given 
an account ^^ of his conviction of the close relation, 
physiologically, of the human body to that of the 
higher simian. "I do not put my trust in any single 
character, even that of dentition, but I put the 
greatest faith in resemblances in many parts of the 
whole organisation. . . . That man is closely allied 



70 STRENGTH AND DIET 

to the hioher simia? is shown by the chissification of 
Liniia3iis, who was so good a judge of affinity. The 
man who in England knows most about the structure 
of simiae, Mr. Mivart, and who is bitterly opposed 
to my doctrine about the derivation of the mental 
powers, yet has publicly admitted that I have not 
put man too close to the higher simia3, as far as 
bodily structure is concerned." Now, since it is 
well proved that the apes do not thrive on flesh 
food, there is the strongest ground for the presump- 
tion that man, similarly formed, is not naturally 
constructed to maintain himself on the food of a 
beast of prey. It is not, in fact, surprising that the 
human beino- is most efficient with the sustenance which 
is most natural to him. But Darwin wrote, oddly 
enough, long after the physiological conditions were 
familiar to him : " I have always been astonished at 
the fact that the most extraordinary workers I ever 
saw% the labourers in the mines of Chili, live ex- 
clusively on vegetable food, including many seeds 
of leguminous plants." 

Dr. Oilman Thomson, Professor of Medicine in 
Cornell University, writes :^^ "Prolonged muscular 
exercise, or extraordinary exertion, can be maintained 
upon starchy foods and fat without meat. ... A 
man cannot perform more actual muscular labour 
upon an exclusive diet of animal food than upon 
starchy food." 

"A mixed diet is the only rational one for man. 
. . . The ox extracts a large proportion of nitrogen 
from such food (grass), which man's feebler digestive 
organs do not enable him to do. . . . The lion derives 
great strength from purely nitrogenous food, but even 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 71 

when trained he is wholly unfit for the continuous 
exertion that herbivores can endure. . . . 

" Man, from his earliest prehistoric days, has been 
omnivorous. Animal food in some form must be 
regarded as absolutely essential for all vigorous races." 
[This opinion, from the context, seems to signify not 
that flesh-meat, but some animal products such as 
milk, butter, cheese, and eggs, are essential. The 
vegetable oils do not seem to have been taken much 
into account, though now largely and successfully 
substituted for animal fat.] 

Dr. Combe considers that the true principle in 
regard to the stomach appears to be that, where the 
food of the animal contains much nutriment in a 
small bulk, there the stomach and intestinal canal 
are simple and short. 

Dr. J. J. Bell writes : ^° "In comparing the human 
teeth with these four classes [the herbivora, carnivora, 
omnivora, and frugivora], we find in the herbivorous 
little or no resemblance ; in the carnivorous the re- 
semblance is still less, as man has no long, sharp canines 
resemblino; the lion and wolf, but short like the other 
teeth. When compared with the omnivora, the dis- 
parity as regards the form and arrangement in tlie 
jaw is still greater. But when we compare the teeth 
of man with the frugivora, as the higher apes, we find 
them identical in number, in form, in grouping, and in 
arrangement in the jaw, with the exception that the 
eye teeth are a little longer and more chisel-shaj^ed 
in the ape, and are set a little apart from the other 
teeth." 

The motion of the jaws is also quite unlike that of 
the carnivora, and, like that of the vegetable feeders, 



rz 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



threefold. The hands and feet bear similar testimony 
to the class to which man belongs. 

In the carnivora, the alimentary canal is three 
times the length of the body, in the herbivora thirty 
times, in the omnivora ten times, in the ape twelve 
times, in man twelve times. 

The colon bears testimony to the same effect ; also 
the situation of the mammary glands ; also the sweat 
glands distributed over the human body, quite unlike 
the carnivora ; also many points in the digestive 
oroans. 

In the carnivora the stomach is very simple, and 
secretes a very powerful, highly acid gastric juice. In 
the frugivorous animals, and in man, the gastric juice 
is much weaker, thus allowing digestion of starch to go 
on for a long time after the food is swallowed. 

The liver in carnivora is much larger in proportion 
to the size of the body, and the secretion of bile very 
much greater. 

Landois and Sterling have shown that uric acid is 
increased about two or three times above the normal 
quantity on a flesh diet. And urea is doubled by the 
use of a flesh diet. Other poisons, such as succinamic 
acid, creatin, creatinnin, are increased proportionately. 

Bouchard has shown that the excreta on a mixed 
diet are twice as poisonous as on a non -flesh diet, and 
later experiments give the toxic excreta as increased 
fourfold on a purely flesh diet. 

Meat extracts or beef teas consist largely of pro- 
ducts on the way to urea, and are partly toxic. 

Dr. Bell cites from The Scientific American 
statistics showing the greater longevity of the less 
opulent and cultured races. These will appear later. ^^ 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 73 

Dr. Joseph Drzewiecki, late physician in the Uni- 
versity Clinic of the Holy Ghost Hospital at Warsaw, 
writes that nothing speaks so much against a flesh diet 
for man as his digestive canal, which resembles that 
of the anthropoid apes very closely. Experience has 
taught the breeders of apes that flesh makes them 
wilder, and causes many disorders of the stomach, 
bowels, kidneys, skin, etc., and, wdiat is more im- 
portant, shortens their life, so that to-day no breeder 
of apes or proprietor of a menagerie will feed them 
with Hesh. 

The eminent anthropologist, Professor Broca,^^ has 
shown that the structure and position and covering of 
the peritoneum over the bowels are the same with man 
as with the anthrojDoid apes. 

It seems probable that, man's digestive canal being 
longer, and his liver much smaller than that of the 
carnivora, " the poisonous alkaloids which are now 
known by physiologists to be formed in the process of 
digestion, may get into the liver and blood," and be 
the cause of many disorders. 

Drs. Parkes and Kenwood ~^ wrote : " Whilst there 
is not sufficient evidence to prove that vegetarianism, 
so-called, is more conducive to health and longevity 
than a mixed diet, there can be but little doubt that 
the wealthier classes eat too largely and too frequently 
of meat. Excess of nitrogenous food causes not only 
an abnormal production of the poisonous alkaloids, of 
whose potentialities for evil but little is at present 
known ; but an excess of nitrogenous waste accumu- 
lates in the blood, oxidation is interfered with ; the 
liver, kidneys, and the other excretory organs are over- 
taxed in their work of eliminating waste substances 



74 STRENGTH AND DIET 

which are also insufficiently elaborated, and gout or 
liver and kidney disease result. 

" The only advantage — if indeed it be one at all — 
in favour of an animal nitrogenous food as opposed to 
vegetable, is that the former is more rapidly and com- 
pletely digested, and therefore more quickly replaces 
wasted tissue. But against this must be set the fact, 
quite recently ascertained, that proteid substances are 
split up in the processes of healthy digestion, either in 
part or whole, into the poisonous alkaloids, ptomaines, 
and leucomaines. These bodies tend to accumulate in 
the system when flesh is eaten in excess, or when health 
and activity are not sufficient to dispose of them." 

Mr. E. H. Thurston, in an elaborate paper in the 
Smithsonian Report for 18 96,'^ states: "While the 
actual dietaries are commonly largely composed of 
animal food, it should be at all times remembered that 
the teaching of comparative anatomy and general experi- 
ence, so far as careful observation informs us, indicate 
that the vegetable starches and fats and proteins are 
more suitable for the animal prime motor, and even still 
more to the thought machine, than the carnivorous 
foods." 

" Frankland finds the energy per pound of common 
foods to range from 2000 to 3000 British thermal 
units in the case of lean meats to about 7000 with the 
grains and their flours, and to over 15,000 in the case 
of the solid fats." 

*' But the power of assimilating the elements of the 
body and of producing muscle, nerve, brain, and bone is 
no less essential to the maintenance of the efficiency of 
the machine than the production of thermal or other 
equivalent energies. The grains have double the value 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 75 

of the meats as Ijrain and nerve foods, and the coarse 
vegetables one quarter the value of the grains in this 
respect. Butter and lard, the best heat producers, 
have no value at all as muscle and nerve material." ^^ 

Dr. Harry Campbell, M.D., B.S., Assistant Physi- 
cian and Pathologist to the N.W. London Hospital, 
writes : ^*^ " All children in the country help themselves 
largely to the vegetable diet provided by nature. 
They eat herbs and berries, roots and nuts. ... I 
think it may safely be said that children, as a body, 
prefer a vegetable to a meat diet. Almost every child 
prefers fruit to meat. . . . Some children manifest 
a great liking for meat ; they may be taught to like it, 
just as pigeons and other vegetable feeders may, or as 
they might be taught to like many other things — gin, 
for instance. Man's progenitors were entirely vegetable 
feeders ; . . . therefore man's diet should be mainly 
vegetable, that of children almost entirely so." . . . 
" It is known that the teeth of all civilised people are 
getting worse and worse. ... To my mind it is a 
very serious matter. I suppose primitive men prac- 
tically never suffered from toothache." 

In this connection the opinion of Mr. Grant Allen 
on the origin of flesh-eating may be quoted : " Primitive 
pastoral races keep their domestic animals mainly for 
the sake of the milk, or as beasts of burden, or for the 
wool and hair ; they seldom kill one except for a 
feast at which the a;ods are fellow-nartakers." It is 
probable, he says, that the habit of flesh-eating has 
arisen out of the substitution of a divine animal 
victim for the divine human victim of earlier usage. 
Hence our butchers' shops. 

The opinion of Dr. Guckerston, Dr. Densmore, 



76 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. Salisbury, Dr. Evans, and others on the proper 
diet of man differs from that of most authorities who 
have studied the subject. They are against the use 
of cereal food for the following reasons, shortly 
summarised : — 

1. Many diseases are cured by the mere abstinence 

from cereals. 

2. Primal man must have depended on fruits and 

nuts ; cereals are artificial products. Apes, 
which more than any other animal resemble 
man, live on fruits, roots, and nuts. 

3. Starchy foods are not easy of digestion. 

4. Abstinence from cereal foods is found in very 

many instances to produce great and per- 
manent improvement in health. 

5. Cereal foods cause ossification in the joints and 

tissues, especially in the aged. 

Dr. Cheyne wrote ^^ in 1815 : "For remedying the 
distempers of the body, to make a man live as long as 
his original frame was designed to last, with the least 
pain and fewest diseases, and without the loss of his 
senses, I think Pytliagoras and Cornaro by far the 
greatest two men that ever were. . . . Both lived to 
a great age. . . . Both preserved their senses, cheer- 
fulness, and serenity to the last." 

]M. de St. Pierre ^^ gives his opinion that nature 
intended man to live on fruits, nuts (chestnuts, etc.), 
roots, and pinekernels. 

In Lord Playfair's words : ^^ Animal diet is not 
essential to man. This is very obvious when we 
observe how well many races and many of our neigh- 
bours do without it ; and in thus thriving they are not 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 17 

upsetting physiological teaching. " A well-educated 
Englishman," says Sir Benjamin Richardson,"" " I mean 
one well educated in general subjects, would wonder 
beyond measure if he realised the enormous amount 
of work an Indian can do on a mere handful of rice 
and a few dates. But his wonder would be far more 
increased if in the physiological laboratory he were 
shown and made to understand three facts: — (l) The 
exceedingly small amount of flesh-forming matter that 
is called for to make up the waste of the muscular 
organs ; (2) the enormous amount of wasted material 
which is thrown off" or laid by without ever having 
been applied to any useful purpose in the body ; (3) 
the tremendous measure of living energy that has been 
expended in throwing off from the body substances 
which ought never to have been put into it." 

It appears from various evidence that, for most 
men, a diet of 12 oz. of dry food, which may be 
entirely non-flesh, is enough to maintain the highest 
bodily and mental efiiciency. 

We have, in fact, a treble natural rampart of ob- 
jections to slaying for the sustenance of our l)odily 
frames. First, the natural constitution of the human 
body, as adapted to fruit, nuts, and grain, and not flesh; 
secondly, the natural horror of killing, quartering, and 
eating the peaceful inmates of our farms ; and, thirdly, 
the unfitness of such food, in the long-run, for the best 
physical and moral complete health of nations. 

John Evelyn, in the course of his essay on " Sallets,"^ 
wrote : " Children choose to eat fruit rather than flesh, 
and might persist so doing if custom did not compel 
them against the dictates of nature." ^^ 

Sir Henry Thompson, the great surgeon, wrote : ^^ 



78 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" Few children like that part of the meal which 
consists of [flesh] meat. . . . Many children manifest 
great repugnance to meat at first. ... I am satisfied 
that if the children followed their own instinct in that 
matter the result would be a gain in more ways than 
one. . . . The young ones would, as a rule, thrive 
better on milk and eggs, with the varied produce of 
the vegetable kingdom." 

The natural mental repulsion of cultured and 
reasonable beings at the idea of slaying and eating 
their animal friends is worthy of a place beside the 
physical ineptitude for such food. 

Rousseau said^^ that one proof that the taste of 
meat is not natural to the human palate is the indif- 
ference wdiicli children have for that kind of food, and 
the preference they give to vegetable aliments. "It is 
of the utmost consequence not to vitiate this primitive 
taste in children." 

Lord Monboddo : " By nature, it appears to me, 
that man is a frugivorous animal, and becomes an 
animal of prey only by acquired habit." ^" 

Almost any animal can be made to eat flesh. The 
kangaroo has canine teeth. Horses, oxen, and sheep 
may be taught to eat flesh. Norwegian cows have 
been known to eat flesh greedily. Goldsmith saw a 
sheep eat flesh ; a carnivor sheejD is now in London. 

Plutarch wondered "how the first flesh-eater touched 
.slaughter with his mouth and reached to his lips the 
flesh of a dead animate." ^- 

Certainly children have not only a distaste for 
flesh-meat, but the greatest horror and revulsion from 
killing the farm animals they have been accustomed 
to feed and fondle with devoted affection. And even 



rilOrEK DIET OF MAN 79 

carnivora, like dogs, will not kill and eat the birds and 
other comi)anious with which they have been brought 
up. They live with them in friendly security. It is 
a perpetual revolt against human nature, and even 
animal nature, to kill for eating the creatures that share 
our home surroundinos. 

o 

Dr R. S. Tracey writes :^^ "Children are noto- 
riously fond of raw things. . . . There is only one 
article of daily use that the boy will not voluntarily 
eat raw, and that is meat — the flesh of a dead animal. 
. . . Raw meat seems to be absolutely repugnant to 
the human palate." 

And Dr. John Tatham, late Medical Officer of 
Health to Manchester, said : ^* "It is in the care of 
the young especially that I would utter my plea on 
behalf of a diet more generally enriched by fruits." 

It seems almost a crime, and it certainly is a 
grievous error, to force upon children the bloody limbs 
and trunks from the slaughter-house, at sight of which 
they sicken, when all their natural feeling seeks the 
fruits of the garden and of the cornfield. 

Mr. Ernest Clark, a life- vegetarian, and descended 
from life - vegetarians, himself having a numerous 
family of life- vegetarians, considers ^^ that if people 
had to kill their ow^n animals, not five out of fifty 
would remain fiesh-eaters. There is a feeling almost 
of horror at the mere idea of killing a beast and then 
eating its flesh. 

Plutarch wrote : ^^ " That it is not natural to man- 
kind to feed on flesh, we first of all demonstrate from 
the very shape and figure of the body ; for a human 
body in no way resembles those born for rapine . . . 
l>at if you will contend that you yourself wei-e born to 



80 STRENGTH AND DIET 

an inclination to such food as now you have a mind to 
eat, do you yourself then kill what you would eat, 
but do it your own self, without the help of cleaver, 
mallet, or axe, as wolves, bears, and lions do." 

Dr. Cheyne wrote : ^^ "To see the convulsions, 
agonies, and tortures of a poor fellow-creature, whom 
they cannot restore or recompense, dying to gratify 
luxury, and scratch callous and rank organs, must 
require a rocky heart, and a great degree of cruelty 
and ferocity." The fact is that few persons have the 
habit of considering what they are doing by the hands 
of others ; it is not so much cruelty as want of thought- 
ful sympathy which enables many of the worst evils 
to continue. 

There can be no doubt that as the physical nature 
of man is not constructed for carnivorous habits, so 
the moral nature is revolted at the slaying and cutting 
up of friendly fellow-creatures. 

Dr. Hawkesworth said:^^ "He who reflects on the 
number of lives that have been sacrificed to sustain 
his own should inquire by ivhat the account has been 
balanced, and whether his life has become proportion- 
ately of more value by the exercise of virtue and piety, 
by the superior happiness which he has communicated 
to reasonable beings, and by the glory which his in- 
tellect has ascribed to God." 

" Nay, tell me," says Dr. Mosset,^^ after citing the 
Indian Brahmans as abstainers from flesh-meats, " can 
civil and human eyes yet abide the slaughter of an 
innocent beast, the cutting of his throat, the mauling 
him on the head, the flaying of his skin, the quartering 
and dismembering of his joints, the ripping up of his 
veins, the enduring of ill savours, the hearing of heavy 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 81 

sighs, sobs, and groans, the passionate struggling and 
panting for life, which only hard-hearted butchers can 
endure to see ? " There are hundreds of delightful 
foods, he says, ample variety for all the needs of man 
apart from Hesh. 

Pope describes ^^ the ancient times of innocence and 
happiness — 

" The state of nature was the reign of God." 

" Ah ! how unlike the man of times to come. 
Of half that live the butcher and the tomb ; 
"Who, foe to nature, hears the general groan, 
Murders their species and betrays his own. 
But just disease to luxury succeeds. 
And every death its own avenger breeds." 

These lines express the truth, and in the last few 
generations the sufferings inHicted on animals killed 
for tlie luxurious maintenance of the rich have been 
fully e<|ualled, possibly surpassed, by the sufferings 
of the consumers of the tormented bodies. 

The greatest wit of last century, and one of the 
most excellent of men, wrote,'*^ in a letter to Lord 
Murray, that, having ascertained the weight of food 
that he could live upon, so as to preserve health and 
strength, and what he had lived upon, he found that 
between ten and seventy he had eaten and drunk 
forty-four one-horse waggon-loads of meat and drink 
more than would have preserved him in life and 
health, of a value of about £7000. And this meant 
starving, or reducing to deficient nourishment, about 
one hundred persons. 

The result to him was a long period of suffering 
from o'out and other infirmities. He writes in one 

o 

of his letters that he has seven distinct diseases. 
6 



82 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" The cruelty of man," as Ruskiu says, " recoils, 
as it ever does, like a viper upon man, and they 
who invest in the Bank of Cruelty receive l^ack their 
capital with compound interest at a high rate, and 
to the uttermost farthino." 

The wide territory on which man now stands, the 
borderland between instinct and that rational living 
from which we still seem to be ftir, affords scope for 
the vast array of diseases which now afflict the world. 
Man must pass on to the Land of Reason before he 
can attain welfare. 

" The widespread results of alcoholism," *"^ says 
Prof. Elie Metchnikoff, the great physiologist, " show 
plainly the prevalent existence in man of a want of 
harmony between the instinct for choosing food and 
the instinct of preservation." The proper instinct 
has, in fact, become perverted or atrophied. " It 
would be true progress to abandon modern cuisine 
and go back to the simple diet of our ancestors. 
Progress would consist in simplifying many sides of 
the lives of civilised people." 

The higher physical condition of tribes or races 
which live simply and frugally, eating little or no 
animal flesh, and otherwise not less hygienic in their 
habits than the highly civilised communities, has often 
been noted. One characteristic proving the stronger 
and purer condition of their blood and tissues is the 
extraordinary power of recovery from wounds. This 
has been observed perhaps especially in North Africa, 
and among Afghans or kindred peoples. More precise 
data from hospitals respecting the tenacity of life or 
toughness of body, apparently j^roduced by various 
habits in similar circumstances, would be valuable. 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 83 

Elisee Reclus writes as follows : *^ — " One of the 
family had sent me, plate in hand, to the village 
butcher. ... I remember this gloomy yard where 
terrifying men went to and fro with great knives 
which they wiped on blood - besprinkled smocks." 
From an enormous carcase " a reddish liquid was 
trickling into the gutters. I stood incapable of 
going forward, and too much terrified to run 
away. ... I can see the sow belonging to some 
peasants. I remember one of them bleeding the 
animal slowly, so that the blood fell drop by drop. 
The sow cried without ceasing, now and then uttering 
groans and sounds of despair almost human ; it 
seemed like listening to a child. 

" For the great majority of vegetarians . . . the 
important point is the recognition of the bond of 
affection and goodwill that links man to the so- 
called lower animals, and the extension to these, 
our brothers, of the sentiment which has already 
put a stop to cannibalism among men. . . . The 
horse and the cow, the rabbit and the cat, the deer 
and the hare, the pheasant and the lark, please us 
better as friends than as meat. 

" What, then, are the foods which seem to corre- 
spond better with our ideal of beauty, both in their 
nature and in their needful methods of preparation ? 
They are precisely those which, from all time, have 
l)een appreciated by men of simple life ; the foods 
which can do best without the lying artifices of the 
kitchen. They are eggs, grains, fruits." 

It is only by an unjustifiable appointment of 
others to act for us that we are enabled calmly to 
eat the beast at the table which we could not bear 



84 STRENGTH AND DIET 

to see subjected to the horrors of the cargo-boat and 
of the shambles. Mr, J. S. Pengelly, in giving testi- 
mony of the great value which a non-flesh diet had 
been to himself, said that, as clerk to the magistrates, 
he had to go to the slaughter-houses to see the carcases 
which had been seized as being cancerous, tuberculous, 
or tainted with other diseases, and so prevent the 
foul flesh from o-ettinoj to the tables of the citizens. 
If tlesh-eaters saw these horrible sights, they would 
say, " No more of this poisonous food for me ! " 
" They ought to see or to be told what happened in 
these slauoiiterino; hells, — the excitement and fear of 
the animals, the almost human pain exhibited by those 
being killed, and the terror of others w^aiting their turn, 
and the smell of blood — it was a most ghastly sight." 
Several magistrates could hardly bear to go again. 
He himself was ill for days, the sickening scene rising 
up before him. 

The way of life of the people of Burmah is more 
natural and more pleasant. " They do not think of 
killing animals. The result is that, as you pass through 
the crowded streets, no animal is afraid of you. There 
seems to be a friendly relationship between man and 
animals. They are all enjoying life togethei^ and they 
all seem to be thankful for the great boon of life."^^ 

What a contrast to the sights we see here, whether 
near Smithfield, or in small towns, or even in many 
a country village. I hear of revolting spectacles in a 
town in the north of England, where cow^s are killed 
sometimes in shops, sometimes in the street, amid 
groups of children, ill-nourished in body, ill-cared for 
in mind and spirit. 

Father Dolling said,*^ that at Landport, "our little 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 85 

children are continually acclimatised to the smell of 
blood." It is no uncommon thing for boys to eat raw 
meat and drink blood. There are nineteen slaughter- 
houses in their midst. " Their games are connected with 
the sight of death." He truly used the word acclima- 
tised, for the sights and smells of slaughtering are not 
agreeable to man as they naturally are to carnivora. 

These things are as unnatural to the humane mind 
as a tlesh diet is to the human body, and deserve equal 
consideration with a view to saner living. 

Mr. Chandra,^*^ in a plea for the animals, says : " I 
am horrified at the levity with which you regard the 
lives of beasts." The beast shows almost all the signs 
of mental and physical agony that a man shows. It is 
horrible to entomb in our flesh the flesh of others, to 
support our life by innumerable deaths. 

Add to this Mr. Street's evidence in the Report of 
the Veterinary Department of the Privy Council for 
1879 : " Thousands of animals arrive at railwav stations 
dead, and thousands more in a crippled and tortured 
condition, with broken limbs and horns. We have 
seen ten or twelve drays from morning to noon 
haulino; alonoj the dead and maimed victims at a single 
station." 

According to the recent Report of the Departmental 
Committee on the Inland Transit of Cattle ^" : " At the 
fair grounds in Ireland animals, already perhaps foot- 
sore and exhausted from a walk of many miles, stand 
for hours on the hard road, bewildered by the beating 
they receive and their unaccustomed surroundings," 
Evidence given showed that many of the drovers are 
brutally harsh. So ferocious is the treatment in many 
cases that ivhen the animals are slaughtered, the hide, 



86 STRENGTH AND DIET 

as butchers testify, simply faUs off the hack', and is 
icorthless even for use as leather. In transport by 
steamer, in bad weather, the vessel's deck becomes a 
shambles; "helpless cattle dashed from one side of 
the sliip to the other, amid a ruin of smashed pens, 
with limbs broken, . . . dishorned, gored, and some of 
them smashed to mere bleeding masses of hide- 
covered flesh." " Many of the cattle die, . . . suffocated 
through being packed in the ill-ventilated and confined 
' 'tween-decks.' . . . The stench in this foetid atmosphere 
is described as horrible, the dead beasts, advanced 
perhaps in decomposition before death ended their 
sufferings, are often removed literally in pieces, so 
cribbed and cabined is the space." 

The agonies endured in the slaughter-house, 
especially with inexperienced slaughtermen, are most 
horrible. A blow above the orbit would break through 
and burst the eyeball ; above the nose, would force 
its way into the delicately nervous chamber where 
the olfactory nerves are spread out, and would cause 
intense agony, while the front of the head generally, 
below the margin of the frontal bone, is highly 
sensitive, and a lifetime of suffering could be crowded 
into those terrible minutes which go before unconscious- 
ness and death. 

There are many most revolting incidents in the 
passage of a beast from the field or stall to the 
slaughter-house, and it seems not unlikely that the 
condition of the corpse used as food may detriment- 
ally affect the human eater. No beast of prey subjects 
its victim to such prolonged agonies. 

In the Official Government Report, just issued, 
of the Parliamentary Committee on the Humane 



PROPER DIET OF MAN 87 

Slaiioliterino- of Animals, the manner of slauo-hterincr 
is deseril)ed ])y veterinary inspectors of slaughter- 
houses and l)y master butchers. It appears that 
beasts arriving from the United States have been 
dishorned, not a very painful process " if done 
early in life ; there is a certain amount of pain 
attached to it." The ox intended for human food is 
a mutilated beast, and many are unnaturally fattened. 
In country slaughter-houses the bullocks are usually 
felled first, then struck on the forehead, and then bled 
by cutting the throat. Sheep are struck on the top 
of the head, then a pithing - cane is put into the 
spinal cord, and smashes up the brain and the medulla 
oblongata. At Deptford, the sheep is laid on a table, 
and a knife is driven through the neck ; this is done 
expertly, and the sheep dies at once. In some places 
the spinal cord is only imperfectly severed, and there 
is "a good deal of cruelty." The nearer to the brain 
the spinal cord is destroyed, the less pain. The better 
class of butchers are very humane, but the sight of 
killing is always disagreeable. Wlien badly poll-axed, 
bullocks often get up after being knocked down. 

At Deptford the men generally are skilful, and there 
is little suffering ; about 600 to 800 beasts are some- 
times killed on one day ; boys are trained up to kill from 
the age of fourteen, fifteen, or sixteen ; it requires a con- 
siderable amount of practice to hit the exact spot on 
the animal's head ; and sheep often struggle after being 
stuck by an unpractised hand. At Aldershot, "the 
marines are first allowed to go into the offiil-house ; 
they have the handling of the knife and a view of 
all that is going on to get their nerves strengthened 
for slaughtering work ; and after they have been in 



88 STRENGTH AND DIET 

there, say a month or six weeks, they are allowed 
to go on with tiaying the animal within six weeks." 
After three or four months more, they use the pole-axe 
to do the second blow, when the animal is dead and 
they are pithing it ; and a man after he has been 
there about four months, if he feels competent and 
has confidence enough, is allowed to knock a bullock 
down. This seems to be all right, l)ut the natural 
antipathy to the business is manifest. Speaking of 
sheep, the inspector of the L.C.C. Public Health 
Department said it requires some considerable ex- 
perience to pith an animal quickly, and another 
inspector of the Council said that one can see un- 
skilful men pithing sheep, causing unnecessary 
suffering. The veterinary inspector to the corporation 
of London stated that with calves the practice is to 
bleed them immediately after stunning them. They 
are drawn up in some markets and then stunned ; 
calves "are naturally skittish, and very likely if a man 
struck at a calf in the slaughter-house, he mioht miss 
it," The calves may sometimes recover consciousness 
after being stunned and drawn up. Killing is much 
improved. Mr. John Colam said that formerly calves 
were killed by slow bleeding, lasting for three days, 
the wound being stopped by tow. This only prevails 
now in remote parts. The object was to get white 
veal, a delusion. 

" I think there is a great reform wanted in this 
country with regard to the killing of sheep. The 
theory is, that the killer puts the knife into the neck 
there and passes the point of the knife between the 
two joints of the vertebra, but I am sure that result 
is not effected, because it is not really an expert man 



PROPER DIET OF IMAN 89 

who kills sheep ; it is geiierall}' u hid or young man in 
the shiughter-house who does that." A member of the 
Committee observed that the Committee had seen a 
man who was admittedly an expert perform the 
operation, " and he was successful in a varying degree " 
as regards time. It would be a difficult operation 
for the inexpert. A veterinary inspector of much 
experience stated that " the cane is put in to protect 
the butcher against involuntary movements": "the 
butcher does not want to kill the animal by breaking 
up the medulla, that is only to stop the involuntary 
movements ; if he did not, he would be kicked. To 
begin with, bleeding is the next stage, and the muscles 
of the neck twitch when he tries to cut down on the 
jugular and carotid, and again, when he starts to skin, 
there are jerks of the muscles, and so on." " The heart 
does not cease to beat till nearly five minutes after 
poll-axing." "The use of the cane does not produce 
insensibility any more than the blow of the poll-axe." 
Other opinions, however, of physiologists of very high 
standing, do not agree with this view. " Lack of 
sensibility," says this witness, extends to all behind the 
head, but it is a very old physiological cpiestion as to 
what happens to the head. The Committee's interest- 
ing report on the evidence should be read by all who 
eat, but do not kill with their own hands. 



CHAPTER II 

Calculated Chemical and Physiological Values 
OF Foods — Comparative Cost of Equivalent 
Articles 

It is not the purpose of this volume to give details of 
the elaborate chemical investigations which have demon- 
strated the composition and apparent value of a great 
variety of substances used for the sustenance of man. 

Several excellent books have been published which 
can be consulted in almost any good public library. 
And many admirable scientific papers are in existence, 
which are well worth consulting by those interested 
in the theoretical question. 

It may be convenient, however, to include some 
of the principal results of the very elaborate researches 
which have been undertaken by high authorities in 
this department. 

The energy per pound developed by common foods, 
according to Frankland, has already been stated, also 
the observations of Mr. Thurston regarding the power 
of assimilating for the production of muscle, nerve, 
brain, and bone. The grains, he found, have double 
the value of flesh as brain and nerve foods. 

Mr. Thurston finds ^ that 85 per cent, of the food of 
man is applicable to w^ork, and 15 per cent, to muscle 
making. 

90 



VALUES OF FOODS 91 

On the whole, four times as much energy is supplied 
in good food for heat and work as for muscle repair, 
and forty times as much as for brain and nerve. 

The underground vegetables, "which can hardly be 
called foods," such as potatoes, carrots, and turnips, 
contain three-quarters to seven-eighths of their weight 
of water, and only supply from 800 to 1800 British 
thermal units of energy. 

Atkinson gives from 2 to 275 lb. of common foods 
per day as dietaries on which life can be sustained and 
ordinary work done without strain. " Much included 
in the bill of fare of the well-to-do citizen has no real 
value in nutrition ; some of it is actually and often 
seriously detrimental, and some, possibly a large pro- 
portion, is simply superfluity and waste." 

The vegetable starches and fats and proteins are 
most suitable for the animal prime motor, and still 
more for the thought machine. 

" The writer has, as a matter of experiment, lived 
for long periods of time on about 12 oz. per day of 
oatmeal (dry), or the equivalent in cracked wheat or 
other grain, supplying but about 1400 calories per day, 
and, leading a sedentary life, found this allowance ample. 
This is also the least costly of all foods. The writer 
has known young men live on sixty cents a week, 
making up the dietary of grain foods mainly." 



The following table, according to Haliburton,''^ 
gives the chief substances in some of the principal 
meats : — 



92 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Constituents. 


Ox. 


Pig. 


Fowl. 


Water . 


767 


72-6 


70-8 


Solids 


23-3 


27-4 


29-2 


Proteids and gelatin 


20 


19-9 


22-7 


Fat 


1-5 


6-2 


4-1 


Carbo-hydrate 


0-6 


0-G 


1-3 


Salts 


1-2 


ri 

!• Ill TllOfl 


1-1 



particularly noted ; if a man wished to take his daily 
minimum of 100 grammes of proteid entirely in the 
form of meat, it would be necessary for him to con- 
sume about 500 grammes (a little more than 1 lb.) of 
meat per diem." 

" The following table [abbreviated] contrasts the 
composition of some of the more important vegetable 
foods : — 



Constituents. 

Water 
Proteid 
Fat . 
Starch . 
Cellulose 



Wheat. 



13 

12 

1 

67 

2 



Mineral salts 1*8 



Oats. 

12 
10-4 
5-2 

57-8 
11-2 



Rice. 

13-1 
7-9 
0-9 

76-5 
0-6 
1 



Lentils. 

12 

24 

1 

54 



Pea: 

14 

23 

1 

49 

7 



2-4 3-1 1 



Potatoes. 

76 

2 

0-2 
20-6 

0-7 



" We see from this table the great quantity of 
starch always present. The small quantity of fat. . . . 
Proteid, except in potatoes, is pretty abundant, and 
especially so in the pulses." 

Moleschott gives the following daily diet : — 
Proteid, 120 grammes; fat, 90 grammes; carbo- 
hydrates, 333 grammes. Ranke gives — proteid, 100 



VALUES OF FOODS 93 

grammes; fat, 100 grammes; carbo-hydrate, 250 

mmes. 

" From the composition of the more commonly 
used foods, G. N. Stewart calculates that 500 grammes 
(18 oz. ) of bread and 250 grammes (9 oz.) of lean 
meat constitute a fair quantity for a man fit for hard 
work." Five hundred grammes of bread contain 40 
grammes of proteid, 250 grammes of lean meat, 55 
grammes of proteid. 

Statistics from the United States, Germany, and 
Great Britain show that from 50 to 60 per cent, of the 
income of wage-earners and other people of moderate 
means is expended in food. The works of Dr. Pavy, 
Dr. Hutchison, and others, and Dr. S. Martin's article 
in that great work, A Treatise on Hygiene, by Dr. 
Thomas Stevenson and Mr. Shirley Murphy (M.O.H. 
to London), should be consulted for very full inves- 
tigations of the composition of foods and of their 
values." 

From a table showing about the amount of the 
various constituents of food which a shilling will buy, 
the following particulars are extracted : — 



1 shilling' will buy of — 


L'rotein. 


Fat. 


Carbo-hyd. ^""^^ 
•' value. 


Eound of beef, at 8^d. a lb. 


0-26 


0^17 


1,235 


„ at 5d. a lb. 


0-44 




2,105 


Salt fat pork, at 7d. a lb. . 


0-03 


V40 


6,025 


Mutton, at 9d. a lb. . 


0-20 


0^20 


1,245 


„ at 5d. a lb. . 


0-37 


0^35 


2,245 


Fresh cod, at 3d. a lb. 


0-45 


0^01 


945 


Pork (smoked ham), at 8d. a lb 


0-20 




2,4.35 


Whole milk, at 4d. a quart 


•19 


•23 


1,915 


Skimmed milk, at 2d. a quart "4 


•03 


•61 2,085 


Butter, at Is. 6d. a lb. 


•01 


•54 


2,320 


„ at Is. 3d. a lb. 


■01 




2,770 


Eggs, at Is. 6d. a dozen . 


•10 


•07 


475 



94 STRENGTH AND DIET 



1 shilling will buy of— 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo-hy 


■ value. 


Cheese, at 7d. a lb. . 


•43 


•55 


•04 


3,265 


Wheat bread, at l^d. a lb 


•76 


•13 


5-57 


12,421 


Oatmeal, at Ud. a lb. 


1^08 


•53 


5-39 


14,430 


Rice, at l|d. a lb. . 


•45 


•02 


5-27 


10,795 


Potatoes, at ^d. a lb. 


•34 


•02 


3^60 


7,470 


Beans, at 2d. a lb. . 


ro5 


•10 


3-47 


8,960 


Sugar 






6-86 


14,760 



The verv liio;li nutritive value, at small cost, of 
wheat, oatmeal, rice, and beans is here apparent. The 
protein of flesh meat, according to Dr. Atwater, is 
somewhat more fully utilised for nourishment than the 
protein of vegetables in general. The high value of 
skimmed milk is remarkable. 

The fuel-yalue of fat is, weight for weight, 2^ 
times that of either starch or sugar. Hence fat pork 
and butter lead in fuel-value. Salad or olive oil would 
be equally good. 

According to Dr. Atwater,* the well-known American 
investigator, protein includes the nitrogenous nutri- 
ents, except nitrogenous fat, namely, the proteids 
albumen (like white of egg), casein (curd of milk), 
myasin of muscle (lean meat), gluten of wheat, etc. ; 
and the non-proteids include the extractives of meat 
and the amides and allied compounds of vegetables and 
fruits. Protein forms tissue (muscle, etc. ), fat, and fuel. 

Fat includes fat of flesh meat, butter, olive oil, oil 
of corn, w^heat, etc. Fats form fatty tissue and fuel. 

Carbo-hydrates include sugars, starches, cellulose 
(w^oody fibre), etc. Mineral matters are phosphates, 
sulphates, chlorides of potassium, sodium, calcium, etc. 
Carbo-hydrates are transformed into fat, and serve as 
fuel. 

All these nutrients yield energy in the form of heat 



VALUES OF FOODS 95 

and muscular power. Animal foods have most protein 
and fats ; vegetable foods are rich in carbo-hydrates. 
Cheese has a large proportion of protein derived from 
the milk. Beans and peas and oatmeal have much. 
Wheat has a moderate quantity, maize, meal, and rice 
rather a small quantity. In fuel-value fat pork and 
butter are hio-hest. Other meat fats stand hioh so do 
grains, Hour, and meal. Potatoes are low in fuel-value 
and protein ; a large quantity is necessary for sus- 
tenance. Milk, by weight, also ranks low, being seven- 
eighths water. 

There is much, evidently, both in chemical physiology 
and in actual experience, to confirm Dr. Carpenter's state- 
ment that " good wheaten bread contains more nearly 
than any substance in ordinary use the proportion of 
azotised and non-azotised matter which is adapted to 
repair the waste of the system, . . . and we find that 
health and strength can be more perfectly sustained 
upon that substance than upon any other taken alone." 
This, of course, refers to the ordinary digestion of a 
healthy person.^ 

The availability of animal products is 97 per 
cent, as regards protein, 95 as to fat, 98 as to carbo- 
hydrates ; of cereals 85, 96, and 98 respectively ; of 
vegetables 83, 96, and 95 ; of fruits 85, 90, and 90. 
These are the results of al)0ut 300 experiments on men 
living on different diets. 

The rapidity of the digestive process is important 
in many cases, especially where meals are too near 
together — say, with less interval than five hours. 
There is much difference in the time taken to dio"est 

o 

different substances. 

Dr. Beaumont's tables show that soft-boiled rice is 



96 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



converted into chyme in one hour ; barley, stale 
bread, codfish, and raw eggs in two ; soft-boiled eggs, 
beef, and mutton in three ; roast fowl in four ; veal, 
pork, and salted beef in five and a half. Bread and 
butter take longer than bread alone. 

Dr. Hemmeter '" gives a table, after Scammell, 
showing the percentages of material of difi"erent kinds 
in various foods, from which a few examples are here 
appended : — 



Wheat 

Oats 

Beans 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Milk 

Beef 

Mutton 

Ham 

Chicken 

Herring 

Yolk of es 



As material for 
tlie "muscles. 

14-6 

17 

24 
5-1 
1-4 
5 

19 

21 

35 

21-6 

18 



AVhite of eggs 13 

Cheese . 30-8 
Dates, fresh 
Figs . 5 

Pearl barley 47 
Prunes . 3 "9 



As heat givers. 



As food for 

brain and nervous 

system. 



66-4 

50-8 

40 

82 

15-8 

8 
14 
14 
32 

1-9 

or little 
29-8 

28 

73-7 

57-9 

78 
78-6 



1-6 

3 
3-5 

0-5 
0-9 
1 

2 

2 

4-4 

2-8 
4 or 
2 

2-8 
47 

3-4 
0-2 
4-5 



According to Moss, the percentages of nutrition in 
the following foods named are : — 



VALUES OF 


FOODS 




Milk . 


7 


Wheat bread 


90 


Potatoes 


22-5 


Boiled peas . 


93 


Oatmeal porridge 


7b 


Codfish 


21 


Boiled rice 


88 


Boiled mutton 


30 


Butter . 


93 


Boiled beans 


87 


Whipped eggs 


13 


Boiled barley 


92 


Roast poultry 


26 


Raw oil 


96 


Rye bread 


79 







97 



The percentage of digestibility, according to 
Atkinson, is somewhat higher for flesh and milk than 
for meals and peas and rice. That is, for instance, 
that practically all the protein of a piece of meat or 
fish would be digested, but 81 to 100 per cent, of the 
protein of a piece of bread. 

Mr. Miles gives ^ the percentages of proteid or 
gelatine in various foods as follows : — 



Beef contains 


20 per cent, of proteid or gelatine 


Pork . 


12 




Pea soup 
Milk . 


3-38 , 
2-3 




Plasmon . 


69 




Cheddar cheese 


33-4 




Eggs (white) . 
Eggs (yolk) . 
Wheat . 


12-6 
16-2 
11 




Oatmeal . 


14-2 




Wholemeal bread 


6-3 




Crust . 


5-70 , 




Crumb . 


0-75 , 




Macaroni 


10-89 , 




Dried peas 

7 


21-0 





98 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Lentils contain 


23 per cent. 


of proteic 


or gelatine 


Haricots 


23 








„ (cooked) 


4-4 








Potatoes 


1-2 








Apples . 


0-4 








Grapes . 


1-0 








Bananas . 


1-5 








Dates 


4-4 








Figs . . 


5-5 








Prunes . 


2-4 








Eaisins . 


2-5 








Chestnuts 


10-1 








Walnuts . 


15-G 








Sweet almonds 


24 








Spinach . 


2' 5 or less 






Butter . 


practicall 


y 


Qone. 





Dr. Pavy, in his book on Food states the following 
as the weisfht and cost of various articles of food that 
would have to be consumed in the system to raise the 
body of a person weighing 10 stone to a height of 
10,000 ft. (Frankland)' :— 





Weight in lb. 


Cost, 
s. d. 

1 Hi 


Cod-liver oil 


0-553 


Beef fat 


0-555 


5i 


Butter 


0-693 


1 oi 


Cocoa-nibs . 


0-735 


1 li 


Cheshire cheese . 


1-156 


iii 


Oatmeal 


1-281 


3i 


Arrowroot . 


1-287 


1 34 


Flour 


1-311 


3f 



VALUES OF FOODS 



99 



Peasemeal 
Ground rice 
Bread 
Lean beef 
Potatoes 
Whiting 



And the following portions of alimentary substances 
in a dry state are said to be required daily for the 
support of an ordinary working man of average height 
and weight (Moleschott) : — 



Weight in lb. 


Cost. 




s. d. 


. 1-335 


41 


. 1-341 


51 


. 2-345 


4| 


. 3-532 


3 6J 


. 5-068 


5i 


. 6-3G9 


9 4 



Dry Food. 


Oz. 


Grammes 


Albuminous . 


. 4-387 


130 


Fatty . 


2-964 


84 


Carbo-hydrates 


. 14-250 


404 


Salts . 


1-058 

,1 r» 1 


30 



Dr. Sidney Martin, in the course of his article on 
" Food," makes these statements : — 

" Practically speaking, the nutrition of the nitro- 
genous tissues means the nutrition of the body." 

" The effect of the mixture of foodstuffs is the 
chief physiological factor in considering food." 

" An excess of proteid food would throw an excess 
of work on the nitro2;enous tissues. The excretion of 
urea," according to Lehmann, " is greatest with animal 
diet." " To preserve health, the proteid taken must 
equal tliat destroyed. . . . With every individual tliere 
is a maximum and minimum of intake." Fats and 
carbo-hydrates are of advantage for mixture with proteid 



100 STRENGTH AND DIET 

foods, and allow the proteid foods to be diminished in 
quantity. Carbo-hydrates are both proteid-sparing and 
fat-sparing. 

Water is necessary for the proper carrying on of 
all the chemical and mechanical functions of the body. 
Salt is necessary, especially to vegetable feeders, for no 
large quantity is supplied in vegetables, as it is in 
tlesh. Phosphates also are necessary. Iron is " essen- 
tial to life and health ; it forms an important part of 
the haemoglobin of blood corpuscles. Animal flesh 
contains most iron." 

" It is usually considered that the animal proteids 
(myosin, egg-albumen, etc.), have the same nutritive 
value as the vegetable proteids (gluten, legumin, etc.)." 
This has been confirmed by Dr. Rutgers' experiments. 
" It mav be concluded that man has chosen the three 
best proteids for his food in the myosin of meat, the 
casein of milk, and the gluten of bread." 

" The difference in the nutritive value of fats seems 
to depend almost solely on their digestibility." 

" Milk contains a sufficient proportion not only of 
sodium chloride [salt], but of potassium and calcium 
f)hosphates and iron." 

" In the dietary of the working classes in all parts 
of Europe there is a deficiency of proteid and of fat, 
and an excess of carbo-hydrates." The deficiency, 
says Dr. Martin, would be made up by an addition of 
animal products. It can, of course, be made up by 
additional milk, or pulse, or nuts, or cheese, or almonds 
and olive or other fine oil. 

" A large meal late in the evening leads to digestive 
disturbances." The proper times for the chief meals 
of the busy man are at breakfast and early in the 



VALUES OF FOODS 101 

■evening, but to the " working man " the middle of the 
day is most convenient for the hirgest meaL 

The times of digestion of different foods are about 
as follows on an average : Milk, rice, about an hour or 
less ; wdiipped eggs, barley soup, salmon, trout, about 
1 J hour ; peas and flesh, about 2 hours or more ; sago, 
If hour; barley, boiled milk, raw eggs, cabbage with 
vinegar, soup with fat and bread, about 2 hours ; raw milk 
(Richet), baked eggs, ox-liver, 2j hours ; lamb, beans, 
potatoes, cabbage, hash, 2j hours ; boiled eggs, beef- 
steak, white bread, ham, beef, fish, mutton, 3 hours ; 
pork, poultry, veal, brown bread, 4 hours ; salt pork, 
hard-boiled eggs, 5 hours. 

Sleep diminishes digestion. Food taken too often 
spoils digestion. 

An excess of proteid, chiefly of animal food, throws 
great work on the nitrogenous tissues, and causes 
disorders of the liver and muscles, and often apparently 
causes gout. 

Excess of food causes indigestion. 

Cheese is indigestible to many persons, and the 
nutritive value [of the harder cheeses] is therefore much 
smaller than would appear from its composition. 
Cream cheese has much more fat and very much less 
casein.^ 

Sir Michael Foster says : " Proteid matter we 
must always have. . . . We might indeed manage 
to live on proteid matter alone, and out of it, with 
the help of a few minerals, we might renew the 
whole blood, and build up any and every part of 
the body. But it would be uneconomical and unwise 
to do so." 

It is generally recognised that proteids, fats, 



102 STRENGTH AND DIET 

carbo-hydrates, minerals, and water are the most 
important constituents of food. Of course, it would 
be a mistake to suppose that, because proteid is 
the most important thing, a food rich in proteid 
should be eaten in large quantities and to the 
exclusion of other constituents. In fact, it would be 
easy to go to wasteful excess in some of the arti- 
ficial proteid and plasmon foods now supplied to the 
invalid. 

The following table, from Prof. Atwater's standards, 
exhibits the requirements of persons in active work 
and sedentary : — 

Proteid Energy or Fuel 
Grams. Calories. 

When at hard muscular work . 150 4350 

When at moderately active 

muscular work . 
When with light muscular work 
When with sedentary work 
When with very little exercise 

Dr. Haio- calculates that a man weighing; 9 stone, 
in active employment, requires 1323 grains of proteid, 
in hard work 1523, and a man of 12 stone requires 
1764 and 1964 grains. 

A light diet is often more nutritious, especially for 
invalids, for persons with weak digestions, and for the 
aged, than a full and solid meal. But a sufficiency 
of proteid, such as that contained in eggs, or 
milk, or cheese, or flesh, or whole meal, or Hovis 
bread, or nuts, or oatmeal, or beans, or peas, or some 
vegetables and fruits, is most important. Schwann, 
Klein, Brown - Sequard, and Gautier have shown 



125 


3400 


112 


3050 


100 


2700 


90 


2450 



VALUES OF FOODS 103 

that proteid foods are active in nourishing nerve 
tissue. 

Prof. At water has put forward, among rules 
suggested for public institutions, this recommendation : 
Hygienic economy requires not only that the food 
shall meet the physiological demands in respect of the 
quantities of nutriment and energy, but also that it 
shall be fitted to the digestive powers and other 
physiological peculiarities of the users ; this is of 
special importance for invalids and young children. 
The comfort and welfare of the users are promoted 
by making the food palatable. Excessive eating, he 
says, is not only a waste of food and public money, but 
it is injurious to health. Well-to-do people generally 
eat to excess, and there are many, on the other 
hand, who do not eat as much as would be best for 
them. 

As to drink, history and science show that water is 
by far the best of all liquids for the human constitu- 
tion, and, indeed, for all highly developed animals. 
It supplies what is wanted, and nothing more. Milk 
is for the young, water for the grown. Nutriment is 
not required in drink, nor any stimulant principle, 
except on special occasions, as after a severe march 
or an exhausting journey. But even then hot water 
wdll usually he found to be by itself a sufficient 
stimulant. As a rule, nothing more than water or 
the juices of fresh fruits is ever required, and water, 
cold or hot, between meals is the physiologically 
perfect drink. In many conditions of ill-health, due 
to errors of diet, it is also a perfect medicine. 

Julius Ca3sar knew its worth, rarely drank wine 
himself, and greatly admired his valiant foes, the 



104 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Nervii, wlio were water-drinkers, and forbade wine 
to be brought among them, as injurious to their 
strength.^ 

'''Apiarov /xiv vBwp," the old Greek said, and this 
is the conclusion of science. 



CHAPTER III 

The Food of Animals considered in relation to 
Strength and Size — Characteristics of Flesh- 
eating Animals 

Since one of the main questions to be dealt with has 
to do with the relative values and effects of food 
supplies from the two kingdoms — of the plant and of 
the animal — in the development of muscular strength, 
it may be useful to glance, in a brief review, at the 
evidence of strength, endurance, and other qualities 
attained by several mammalia and birds subsisting 
on various sorts of nutriment. 

To compare the strength of animals of different 
habits with each other is no simple matter, but if 
strength and endurance be taken together, a fair 
comparison may be arrived at. The horse, camel, 
and elephant may well represent the strongest 
animals for service, and perhaps the best muscular 
development all round. The lion, tiger, and polar 
l)ear may be equally strong for occasions, but are 
not so well fitted for a steady and constant strain of 
w^ork. 

If we put the development of muscle by grain or 
plant food and by flesh food as equal, we must still 
conclude that for the effective use of energy the plant- 
eater is superior. 

103 



106 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Horses under domestication give every oj^portunity 
for determining the kind of food which in them pro- 
duces the greatest available strength. It is well known 
that grass and green food generally fail to raise their 
capacity for work to a high degree. Corn or beans 
and hay together form the diet best fitted for 
maintaining full strength and endurance. Wild 
horses, donkeys, deer, and elephants certainly exhibit 
agility and robust health on green food, but for 
heavy traction work they require more concentrated 
nutriment. 

Horses which consume maize (Indian corn) are 
exceedingly hardy and require but little care.^ 

The wild ox, sheep, and goat, the antelope, the 
stag, the hare, the wild boar, each prove the power 
of green and growing vegetable food to maintain 
strength, agility, and swiftness, but each is equalled 
by the flesh-fed dog, and perhaps by some of the 
beasts of prey. Dogs, however, do well on a mixed 
diet containing little animal flesh. And, indeed, 
though they have carnivorous teeth and intestines, 
many dogs thrive when given a strictly non-flesh 
diet.^ 

It is a curious fact, physiologically considered, that 
lions and tigers seem to be capable of living fairly 
well with only a little flesh food, and with a large 
quota of vegetables. Some of the fakirs of India 
give their tame tigers no raw animal food, and only 
supply them with a mixture of boiled rice and vege- 
tables, their own diet. But they allow these tigers 
sometimes to roam at laroe.^ 

o 

The small carnivora may be similarly treated. A 
gentleman writes ;■* " I have an old cat in her seventh 



THE FOOD OF ANIMALS 107 

year, a young one of one year, and a dog of four years, 
none of which have tasted meat from a butcher's sliop, 
so far as I know. My cats eat all the mice and birds 
they can get hold of, and on rare occasions the dog 
joins them in a feast of fish. The cats get wheaten 
bread and milk daily, and porridge when any is left ; 
the dog gets two tablespoonfuls of dry oatmeal and a 
bit of hard wheaten bread ; it is as fat as a pig and as 
lively as a cricket." 

The camel is an example of quite astonishing 
strength and endurance, maintained on very scanty 
and simple forage. 

The strongest, most muscular animal for its size 
is probably the monkey, in such tribes as the orang- 
utang, the gorilla, and the macaque, one of which is 
said to have been always the winner against dogs 
twice his size. " They are probably the most formid- 
able fighters in the animal world." The orang-utang, 
according to Dr. Alfred R. Wallace, is a harmless 
creature, feeding on fruit, and never attacking any 
other animal except in self-defence. It is very large 
and strong, and has enormously powerful arms. As 
to the gorilla, Du Chaillu, the great traveller and the 
discoverer of this huge ape, saw one break to pieces 
quite easily a gun accidentally dropped ; and Dr. 
Duncan afiirms that the gorilla is more than a match 
for the African lion. It is said that ten men are not 
too many for holding a full-grown specimen ; and the 
very young gorillas brought to the Zoological Gardens 
five or six months ago showed tremendous powers for 
their age. 

All these monkeys are practically vegetable feeders, 
living on fruits, nuts, and roots, but some kinds 



108 STRENGTH AND DIET 

occasionally eat insects, birds, and eggs. For pur- 
poses of comparison with men, the orang-utang and 
gorilla are the most useful examples on account of the 
close resemblance of the teeth, internal organs, and 
constitution generally, to the human. Apes have 
been often fed, when in confinement, on animal 
iiesh, but have not thriven upon it, and the keepers 
have been compelled to restore them to a vegetable 
diet. 

Birds can assimilate ten to thirty times as much 
food as a man, proportionately to the weight of their 
bodies. 

A tree-sparrow has been known to eat 700 grass 
seeds in a day. A white - tailed eagle, weighing 
between 11 and 12 lb., has been known to raise a 
pig of 42 lb. to a height of 100 ft. and to fly away 
with it. This bird flew half a mile before it was shot. 
This would be paralleled by the lifting of more than 
the weight of four men by one man.'^ 

Storks are believed, without any sort of proof, I 
think, to fly the distance from Lahore to Buda-Pesth 
in twenty-four hours ; that is, at the rate of a hundred 
miles an hour.*^ A speed of fifty-five miles an hour 
by pigeons for fourteen hours has certainly been 
recorded. 

Extreme statements as to the speed of birds 
require verification, but there can be no doubt that 
the strength of eagles, storks, and many other birds of 
very difl"erent habits of feeding is exceedingly great, 
and that they are capable of very rapid motion and 
continuous activity. 

There is little to choose, apparently, as regards 
strength and swiftness, between flesh and plant 



THE FOOD OF ANIMALS 



109 



feeders. Pigeons ami parrots are remarkable for 
these qualities, so are swallows and jays. So are 
mixed feeders, like rooks, magpies, and starlings. 

As to longevity, accurate accounts of various 
animals are wanting-, ])ut the estimates ojiven below 
are probably sufficiently near the true values for 
the present purpose. 

Prof Rav Lankester has written a small book ' 
on the subject, and the evidence given by him puts 
the length of life of the animals named as in the 
following table : the estimate of Prof. M'Kendrick, 
the writer of the article "Longevity," in the 
Encydopcedia Britannica, is adduced in the next 
column : — 



Food. 



Lankester. M'Kendrick 



Pelicans, herons 


. Fish 


40-50 






Hawks 


. Birds, etc. 


30-40 






Nightingales 


. Insects 


15 






Poultry 


. Mixed 


10 






Thrushes . 


. Insects 


8-9 






Wrens 


. 


2-3 






Eagles 


. Birds, etc. 


60 






Parrots 


. Grain, etc. 


60 






Pheasants, partridges 


. Grain, etc. 


16 






Hares, rabbits . 


. Herbs 


7 


7-10 


Pig . 


. Mixed 


15 


15-20 


Sheep 


. Herbs 


10 


7-10 


Goat . 


. Herbs 


10 


7-10 


Ox . . . 


. Herbs 


16 


15-20 


Horse 


. Grain, etc. 


25-40 


40 


Camel 


. Herbs, fruit, etc. 


40-50-100 


50-80 


Fo.x . 


. Birds, rabbits, etc. 


Short 


7-10 


Rhinoceros, hippopu 


Lamus Herbs 


70-80 




Elephant . 


. Vegetaljles 


100 




Deer . 


. Herbage 




30 


Dogs, jackals, cats 


. Flesh 


,.. 


15-20 


Donkey 


. Herbage 


... 


30-40 


Monkey (cebus) 


. Vegetable 




1( 


) 



no STRENGTH AND DIET 

The camel is said to live to a hundred, or at least 
to fifty. Its food is coarse, and, generally, it is hard 
worked. The horse, when not hard worked, has been 
known to live to fifty, but thirty would be about the 
avera2;e. 

The above table does not indicate any considerable 
preponderance in length of life due to the kind of 
food eaten ; but it is somewhat remarkable that both 
the elephant, among mammals, and the parrot, among 
birds, whose longevity is extreme, are vegetable 
feeders. The eagle, however, is said to be equal to 
the parrot in the age to which it can attain, and 
probably the whale may be equal to the elephant, 
so that no clear superiority remains with either kind 
of feeder. 

Among lower animals, the tortoise and the 
crocodile are both believed to live to a great age : one 
is purely carnivorous, the other purely vegetarian. 

Darwin mentions five animals which live longer 
than man — elephants, parrots, ravens, tortoises, and 
some fish.^ Three of the four land animals are plant- 
eaters. 

The habits of flesh-eating animals are not pleasant. 
In hiding during the day, and skulking in the twilight, 
or sneaking on silent feet during the night hours, 
depending on tricks and cunning, they are the 
enemies of all peaceable beings. Their mien expresses 
stealthy and suspicious ferocity, or profound melan- 
choly. Sombre gravity preponderates, as in the lion 
and eagle, which do not seem capable of the enjoyment 
of life shown by most of the grain-eating tribe. 
Considering that they have to exercise their wits 
more than the non-carnivora, they are remarkably 



THE FOOD OP^ ANIMALS 111 

unintelligent, except the fox and a few others ; they 
are far surpassed in sagacity by elephants, rooks, and 
cockatoos. On the other hand, dogs, in a state of 
domestication, with mixed food, are the most in- 
telligent of quadrupeds. 

A medical writer has remarked, in an interesting 
article^ concerning the sanitation of the alimentary 
canal, on the pungent and sickening smells from the 
dens of carnivora, and in the haunts of cats, and has 
contrasted these with the sweetness of the cow's 
breath and byre, and with the ammoniacal smell of 
stables. The unpleasant odours w^hich often emanate 
from the skin and breath of gross flesh-eaters arc 
cured, he says, by the adoption of a grain and 
fruit diet, and are not observed among abstainers 
from flesh. 

To sum up, the plant-eaters may be stated to be 
at least equal in strength to the carnivora, superior 
in endurance, equal in swiftness, superior in happi- 
ness, at least equal in longevity, and superior in 
amenity. 

Most to our present purpose, however, is the fact 
that the plant-eaters are more enduring as tribes than 
the carnivora. The battle is not always to the fierce, 
nor the race to the swift. The gentleness of the 
antelope prevails against the ferocity of the lion, the 
stag outclasses the wolf, the bull beats the bear, and 
the rabbit beats the weasel. The social creatures are 
the happiest, the best fitted to survive and replenish 
the earth. The carnivora are retirino- and decreasinof, 
the plant-eaters have multiplied. Small Inrds are 
always multitudinous, while the eagle kind remain 
scarce and solitary. 



112 STRENGTH AND DIET 

AVe shall find in the distribution of the races 
of man a remarkable analogy to this tendency of 
the so-called weak to confound the strong, and of 
the ravening aggressors to decline from their 
supremacy. 



CHAPTER IV 

Diet of Anciext Peoples, and Opinions of some 
OF theik Greatest Men 

On the whole, the diet of the majority of races, both 
civilised and uncivilised, in ancient times, and till the 
early Middle Ages, seems to have been chiefly derived 
from plants, but in many cases it was mixed, and 
often in the richer classes largely animal. 

The frequent protests of illustrious men against the 
eating of flesh in Greece, Rome, and in several parts of 
the Roman Empire, indicate that the practice was at 
the time common — at least in the cities. 

Pythagoras was " a man of immense learning 
and extraordinary intellectual power." He contended 
strongly against flesh-eating, and was one of the most 
notable advocates of the natural diet in the ancient 
world. ^ 

The Ijeautiful and, for a long time, widely accepted 
teaching of Gotama, or Buddha, his tender regard for 
all mankind and for all living things, are familiar to 
all readers of the Light of Asia, and of Prof Rhys- 
Davids' Buddhism in India. 

Zeno the Stoic, Diogenes, Plato, Plutarch, Plautus, 
Proclus, Empedocles, Socion, Apollonius Tyanareus, 
and Porphyry were reputed to be abstainers. Diogenes 
observed " that we miaht as well eat the flesh of men 



114 STRENGTH AND DIET 

as of other aDimals." " I am astonished to think," 
said Plutarch, " what appetite first induced men to 
taste of a dead carcase." "How could men dare to 
see an impotent and defenceless creature slaughtered, 
skinned, and cut up for food ? " Cicero said that men 
were destined to a better occupation than pursuing 
and cutting the throats of dumb creatures. Clement 
of Alexandria says of St. Matthew that his diet con- 
sisted of roots, fruits, and herbs. 

Minutius Felix, about 210 a.d., in a dialogue 
defending the Christian religion, makes the principal 
speaker say : " We Christians cannot bear to look on 
a carcase, and so abhor human bloodshed that we 
abstain from that of beasts." 

Trip tol emus, who established the Eleusinian 
mysteries, prohibited by law all injury to animals. 
His words were : " Do not kill animals." 

Porphyry wrote to Castriccius : " You owned, when 
you lived among us, that a vegetable diet was prefer- 
able to animal food, both for preserving health and 
facilitating the study of philosophy : and now, since 
you have eaten flesh, your own experience must 
convince you that what was then confessed was true. 
The use of flesh does not contribute to health, but 
rather prevents it." 

" Cyrus, who raised Persia from an obscure, rude 
colony into one of the most powerful and splendid 
empires the world ever saw, who performed more 
extraordinary marches, fought more battles, won more 
extraordinary victories, and exhibited more personal 
prowess and bodily power of effort and endurance than 
almost any other general who ever lived, subsisted from 
childhood on the simplest and plainest diet of vegetable 



DIET OF ANCIENT PEOPLES 115 

food and water, . . . and the Persian soldiers who 
went with him through all his career of conquest . . . 
strictly adhered to the same simplicity of vegetable 
diet (bread, cresses [vegetables], and water) throughout 
the whole of their heroic course." ^ 

Xenophon says that Cyrus was brought up on a 
diet of bread, cresses, and water till fifteen, when honey 
and raisins were added.^ 

Porphyrises, in 233 a.d., wrote that "the eating 
of much tiesh fills with a multitude of evil 
diseases."^ 

Hippocrates, according to Sir Henry Thompson, 
spoke of " overeating as more injurious than over- 
drinking." * 

Socrates, Epicurus, Seneca, Musonius, Clement, 
Chrysostom, Bernard, Decius, and Fabricius, are 
quoted as examples of frugality. 

The common food of the Hebrews in Palestine in 
the periods of the Old Testament was bread made 
of wheat or barley ; barley- meal was the common 
food of the poor. Unleavened bread was used in the 
earliest times. In New Testament times barley-meal 
was still in common use, and to this day is the food of 
the Bedouin in North Arabia. Lentils were the staple 
diet of the Egyptian pyramid-builders, and were com- 
monly eaten by the Hebrews from the earliest to the 
latest times. Lentils were eaten very much in the 
form of pottage, being stewed in oil, as the Spaniards 
stew haricot beans. Lentils and beans formed an 
important part of the Hebrew diet ; lentils were pro- 
Itably the pottage of Esau ; Daniel's fare was pulse and 
lierbs ; Judas JNlaccabseus and his associates lived on a 
vegetable diet ; Josephus at Rome on figs and nuts. 



116 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Beans and bean-meal, chick-peas, and gourds, and 
other such fruit, were the common diet of hirge popu- 
lations in the East. Rice was largely used in the 
Greek period in Palestine. Millet was also common, 
and sesame is still cultivated for the oil and sprinkled 
on bread. The bakemeats mentioned in the Bible 
were dough baked in olive oil. Bread and melons or 
cucuml)ers form the main food of the poorest class in 
the large cities of Syria, and from Constantinople to 
Cairo, now.'' 

" The inhabitants of the Bible lands lived chiefly on 
veo^etable foods," accordino; to Mr. MacAlister.*"' " At 
the present day, bread, olives, oil, butter, milk, and 
cheese, fruit and vegetables, with meat on special occa- 
sions, or in particularly wealthy households, make up 
the dietary of most of their descendants in the East." 
Melons are much used. Bread was made especially of 
wheat, millet, dliurah, and barley. Kice is now added. 
Parched corn, beans, and peas form an important part 
of the diet of Western Asiatics. The Bedawi meal 
described in Ezekiel was dates, bread, and milk. The 
food carried on journeys consisted of bread, cakes of 
figs or raisins, parched corn, and water. 

Homer never represents fish or game being put on 
the table ; he equally excludes fruit. He passed over 
the use of vegetables generally. Vegetables were, 
however, set before the ancient heroes at the siege of 
Troy when they supped. The meat of the Homeric 
heroes was chiefly roast beef.^ [Athenaeus.] But it is 
stated that " Athletic Greece rose to her o-reatest 
culture upon two meals a day, consisting principally 
of maize and vegetables steeped in oil." ^ 

The Romans (soldiers) had corn given them, which 



DIET OF ANCIENT PEOPLES 117 

they grouiul and ljakc(.l, using some lard to smear their 
bread with. They used a little vinegar with tlieir 
water. Sometimes oxen and sheep were divided 
among tliem. Polybius, in al)out the third century, 
sa3's that wheat is distributed to the infantry, and 
))arley and wheat to the cavalry." 

" So far as bodily strength and voluntary endurance 
are considered," said Graham, " the Roman soldier was 
far the most powerful and heroic in Rome's earliest 
days, when he subsisted on his simple vegetable 
food." '' 

According to Pausanias,^^ the athletas of Greece were 
accustomed, before the time of Gnatho Dipseensis, to 
eat fig cheese, and not animal food. 

i\[. d'Arnay says ^^ that in the first ages of Rome 
the Romans lived upon roots, milk, and coarse 
pottage, eating fiesli only on extraordinary occa- 
sions. And Seneca : " Ignorant of the art of ordering 
a feast, they possessed the art of conquering their 
enemies in war, and of o;overnino' the citizens in 
peace." 

Petrarch wrote : " Virtue has not a greater enemy 
than wealth. It was that which conquered Rome, 
after Rome had conquered the world. Every foreign 
vice entered that city by the same door at which 
poverty went out of it." 

The disgusting feasting and licentiousness, the 
fortunes spent on banquets of animal corpses and cruel 
delicacies, the spoiling of the people l)y free distribu- 
tions of corn, the expulsion of the yeomen and peasantry 
from the land, the gross luxury and demoralisation 
which took the place of the old simple Roman life, 
certaiidy aftronted the wholesome forces of nature, 



118 STRENGTH AND DIET 

and, happily for the world, Rome in her opulence was 
doomed to perish. 

The Saracens were remarkable for a hardiness of 
constitution and a fiery spirit, which enabled them to 
undergo the greatest fatigues, and rendered them the 
terror of their enemies. Their chief drink was water ; 
their food consisted in great measure of milk, rice, and 
fruits. "The great Omar" lived entirely on barley 
bread and water.' ^ 

The people of India were described by Megasthenes, 
a Greek ambassador, in the fourth century before 
Christ, as follows:'" " They live happily enough, being- 
simple in their manners, and frugal. They never drink 
wine except at sacrifices. Their beverage is a liquor 
composed from rice instead of barley, and their food is 
principally a rice pottage, . . . They seldom go to 
law. . . . They make their deposits and confide in 
each other. . . . Truth and virtue they hold alike in 
esteem. . . . The tillers of the soil, even when battle 
is raging in their neighbourhood, are undisturbed by 
any sense of danger." (They are regarded as inviolable.) 

It is interesting to compare this account with the 
description of the Indian people given by Mr. Vaughan 
Nash and others quite recently.'^ 

Herodotus'* alludes to the Egyptians of Upper 
Egypt as follows : " The Egyptians are, I believe, next 
to the Libyans, the healthiest people in the world — an 
effect of their climate — in my opinion, . . . They live 
on bread made of spelt, which they form into loaves. . . . 
Their drink is a wine which they obtain from barley. . . . 
Many kinds of fish they eat raw, either salted or dried 
in the sun.' Athenseus says the Egyptians were great 
eaters of bread. Quails, ducks, and small birds they 



DIET OF ANCIENT PEOPLES 119 

ate uncooked. Birds and fish not sacred were eaten 
roasted or boiled. The Egyptians were persuaded that 
the majority of disorders proceed from indigestion and 
excess in eating. 

Xenophon describes the Mossynoecians and their 
way of living. Boiled nuts and baked loaves were 
their chief articles of food ; there were large stores of 
nuts on the upper floors. They also ate dolphins' flesh, 
and drank wine. They were a strong, warlike people. 

At Calpre the soil produced barley, wheat, all sorts 
of pulse, millet, sesame, figs, and vines. 

The Thraciaus lived on flesh meat, loaves, and 



wine.^^ 



Van Cooth, a learned medical writer, aflirms that 
the great body of the ancient Egyptians and Persians 
confined themselves to a vegetable diet.^ 

The Persians, when their empire was at its greatest, 
only had one meal a day — about noon. The Greeks 
ate twice — the first meal at midday.^'' 

The 1400 monks who followed Pachonius lived on 
bread and water, oil, occasional fruits and vegetables, 
and salt. Later the Pachonians numbered 7000, and 
in the fifth century 1 00,000. '' 

St. Aphratus, 300 A.D., ate only a little bread daily 
after sunset. 

St. Serapion, about the same time, with 10,000 
monks, took their pay in wheat ; lived upon a small 
portion of it, and gave the rest to the poor. 

For six years St. Hihirion lived on fifteen figs a 
day, for three years on a pint of pulse a day, for 
three years on dry bread, from his sixty-fifth to his 
eightieth year on 5 oz., and after that on 4 oz. 
St. Anthony on bread and water ; St. Gregory 



120 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Nazianzen on bread and herbs ; St. JNIartin of Tours on 
roots and herbs ; St. Ambrose on one meal a day ; St. 
John Chrysostom on one meal of bread and herbs ; St. 
Genevieve on barley bread and a few beans ; St. 
Augustine on herbs and pulse ; St. David of Wales and 
his monks on vegetables ; St. Benedict on bread and 
water ; St. Columba kept perpetual fast ; St. Ulric, 
very feeble in infancy, grew strong on one scant meal 
of vegetables a day ; St. Bernard subsisted on coarse 
bread moistened with water ; St. Dominic and his 
followers rigidly abstained ; St. Francis lived on bread 
and water, and " was the friend of everything that 
suffered or rejoiced"; St. Charles Borromeo on brown 
bread and chestnuts — when remonstrated with for his 
meagre diet he said the Chrysostoms, the Basils, and the 
Spiridions, though engaged in the most arduous labour, 
lived to be old, keeping perpetual fasts ; St. Catherine 
of Siena on herbs, seldom eating bread ; St. Francis 
Borgia, St. Philip Neri, St. John Francis Regis, St. 
Alphonsus Lignori, " men of wonderful power and 
activity of mind, lived upon a very spare diet of bread, 
fruits, and vegetables." ^^ So we are told. 

Clement of Alexandria wrote : ^'^ " Some men live 
that they may eat, . . . but the Instructor enjoins me 
to eat that we may live." 

" Food ... is to be simple, truly plain, as mini- 
stering to life, and not to luxury." " And the life to 
which it conduces consists of two things — health and 
strength — to which plainness of fare is most suitable, 
being conducive both to digestion and lightness of 
body." 

..." Antiphanes, the physician, said that this 
variety of viands was the one cause of disease." 



DIET OF ANCIENT rEOPEES 121 

..." Those who use the plainest fare are the 
strongest and healthiest, and the noblest." 

" Artorius, in his book On Long Life, thinks that 
drink should be taken only till the food be moistened, 
so that we may attain to a longer life." 

The Scythians, Celts, Iberians, and Thracians were 
said to be greatly addicted to intoxication. 

" Error seems old, but truth seems a new thing." 

St. Theresa and the Carmelites fared simply on 
vesfetable diet.^^ 

Abu-1-Ala, the Syrian, was a poet and philosopher 
of the tenth century. He abstained from flesh and 
wine. In a controversy with Hibat, he maintained, 
first, that religious persons had at all times been 
anxious to abstain from flesh meat, and not to cause 
pain to animals, and, secondly, that for reasons of 
economy he would be a vegetarian, living on beans, 
lentils, and other cheap stufl". " I believed too," he 
said, "that a vegetable diet would secure my health." 
He had at this time lived on vegetable fare for forty- 
five years.^° 

Lucretius, speaking of the ancients, wrote to the 
following eflect : — 

" Soft acorns were their first and chiefest food, 
And those red apples that adorn the wood : 
The nerves that joined their limbs were firm and strong ; 
Their life was healthy, and their age was long, 
Returning years still saw them in their prime ; 
They wearied e'en the wings of measuring time." 

Hesiod gave much the same account of their fare : 
" The uncultivated fields afl"orded them their fruits and 
supplied their bountiful repast." 

And, according to Porphyry, " the ancient Greeks 
lived entirely upon the fruits of the earth." -' 



122 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Prof. Lawrence, liowever, thinks there is no proof, 
nnless we admit Ovid's Metamorphoses and other 
poetical compositions, that this state of innocence, of 
exalted temperance, of entire abstinence from flesh, of 
perfect tranquillity, ever existed.'"' 

Dr. Evans, surgeon to St. Saviour's Hospital, 
relates ^^ that the Ichthyophagi asked the King of 
Ethiopia concerning the term of life and diet of his 
people, and were told that most of them lived to be 
120 ; they ate boiled flesh and drank nothing but 
milk. He quotes also Plutarch's statement, that the 
ancient Britons began to grow old at 120. They were 
remarkable for their athletic form, great strength, and 
extraordinary capacity for bearing hardships of all 
kinds. Their food, says Goldsmith, consisted almost 
exclusively of acorns, berries, herbs, roots, and 
water. 

I find it stated, but cannot trace the authority, 
that the ancient Gauls [probably some tribes], " who 
were a very brave, strong, and hardy race, lived 
very abstemiously. Their food was milk, berries, and 
herbs. They made bread of nuts."-* And that " the 
ancient Spartans lived chiefly on grain, and the 
Roman soldiers who conquered the world carried each 
a bag of parched grain in his pocket as liis daily 
ration.-* 

The food of the Greeks in very remote times was 
made up largely of acorns, beech-nuts, and barley. 
Later, when they ate flesh, they would use the 
entrails, but never the brains, of animals.-' 

When David and his people came to the camp at 
Mahanaim, the oflicers gave him " barley and meal, 
and parched corn, and beans, and lentils, and parched 



DIET OF AXCIENT PEOPLES 123 

pulse, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of kine, to 
eat."-^ 

But there is plenty of evidence of much flesli- 
eatino- at feasts, connected with sacrifices amono- the 
Hebrews. 

The Seres, ancient Chinese, lived to astonishing- 
ages ; Lucian ascribed their longevity to their 
drinking much water.'"* No doubt they were also 
fruoal. 

" Flesh, we know," says Evelyn, " was banished 
from the tables of Pythagoras and Plato, according to 
Porphyry ; Hippocrates thought vegetables sufficient ; 
Clement of Alexandria, Zeno, Phaartes, and others 
"were abstainers from flesh meats.""" 

St. Jerome, 440 a.d., held up natural diet (non- 
fiesh) as the Christian ideal and the restoration of the 
primitive rule of life. He <]uoted the apostolic saying, 
" It is a good thing not to drink wine, and not to eat 
flesh." 

St. John Chrysostom (407) was of the same opinion. 

St. Basil (379) said, "With sober living, well- 
being increases in the household, animals are in safety, 
there is no shedding of blood, nor putting animals to 
death." 

Musonius, the teacher of Epictetus, was vegetarian."^ 

In the early Church there were large bodies who, 
in doctrine and practice, were vegetarian. Sucli were 
the Eucratites and the Ebionites. 

Biblias, under torture, bravely protested against 
the charges of murder brought against Christians, " who 
considered it unlawful even to taste the blood of 
irrational animals." (Eusebius.) 

St. Paul is quoted by Clemens Alexandrinus as 



124 STRENGTH AND DIET 

having said, "It is good ueither to eat flesh, nor to 
drink wine." But a reference to his epistles gives the 
impression that he did not wish to lay down any rule 
except as regards meats offered to idols. 

Hegesippus describes James, the brother of Jesus, 
as practising abstinence. 

In the Testament of Jesus, considered by Dr. Har- 
naek to be not earlier than about 400 a.d., it appears 
that a bishop was then expected to eat no Hesh at all, 
and to drink no wine except at the sacrament. The 
same rule holds good still among both East and West 
Syrians (Nestorians and Jacobites). 

The Essenes were not, in the opinion of Dr. 
Ginsburg, strictly vegetarian. 

They were noted by Josephus as leading the same 
kind of life as those whom the Greeks call Pythagoreans. 
" They are long-lived also, insomuch that many of 
them exist above a hundred years by reason of the 
simplicity of their diet and the regular course of their 
lives." They were almost entirely vegetarian. Their 
vows comprised these principles : First, that they would 
reverence the divine, the divine ideal ; second, that 
each man would carefully practise justice towards his 
fellow-beings, and refrain from injury, whether by his 
or another's will ; that he would always hate injustice 
and fight earnestly on the side of the just and lovers 
of justice ; keep faith with all men ; if in power, never 
use authority insolently or violently ; nor surpass 
subordinates in dress or ornaments ; above all things, 
always to love truth. 

They are described on high authority as very 
healthy, superior to pain or fear, cheerful under 
torture by their persecutors, just, humane, and noble ; 



DIET OF AXCTEXT PEOPLES 125 

and as reaching, in many respects, the highest eleva- 
tion known in the ancient world. 

According to Pliny, ^'Vspelt was "the earliest food 
of the inhabitants of Latium. It is evident too," he 
says, " that the Romans suljsisted for a long time on 
pottage, and not bread." " Ennius, the most ancient 
of our poets, rehites how," during a siege, " the parents 
snatched away the messes of pottage from their weep- 
ing children." This spelt is " the most hardy of all the 
grains." Alica [ergum lens) is " a most delightful and 
most wholesome food, which incontestably confers upon 
Italy the highest rank among countries that produce 
the cereals." Alica is prepared from the grain called 
"zea." Fermenty or porridge of millet was used. Indian 
millet had been introduced to Italy within the last ten 
years. " Varrius states that for three hundred years 
the Romans made use of no other meal than that of 
corn." " Barley is one of the most ancient aliments of 
men." The gladiators were called hordearii, or barley- 
eaters. " The Greeks prefer barley to anything else 
for making polenta." " Hippocrates, one of the most 
famous writers on medical science, has devoted a whole 
volume to the praises of ptisan," probably similar to 
our pearl barley. " The Ethiopians grew only millet 
and barley." The Gauls have a spelt. They make a 
beer or sweet-wort from corn. " In Egypt they make 
a meal of olyra," a kind of spelt. " Cam^^ania is parti- 
cularly prolific ii] millet, and a fine wdiite porridge is 
made from it," also bread. The nations of Sarmatia 
live principally on this porridge, or even the raw meal 
with the addition of mare's milk or blood from a Ijled 
horse. " The people of Gaul and Aquitania use panic, 
also Italy beyond the Padus eat this with l)eans, which 



126 STRENGTH AND DIET 

they add to all their foods." [Panic is still employed 
more than any other food in the south of France, 
according to the translator.] 

" Winter wheat {triticum hihernum) furnishes 
bread of the very finest quality " in Italy. 

Sesame comes from India. " The most favourite 
food of India is rice." 

" Beans are on sale at the present day (in Italy), 
and are employed for feeding cattle, and man more 
particularly. Bean pottage anciently occupied a place 
in religious services. Beans are mostly eaten with 
other food, but it is generally thought that they dull 
the senses, and cause sleepless nights and dreams." 

The opinion of Socrates on diet in a well-ordered 
state is clear : " First, let us consider what will be 
their way of life, nov\^ that we have thus established 
them. They will feed on barley and wheat, baking 
the wheat and kneading the flour, making noble pud- 
dings and loaves ; these they will serve up on a mat 
of reeds or clean leaves. . . . And they and their 
children will feast, drinking of the wine which they 
have made, . . . dwelling together in unity. 

". . . Of course they will have a relish — salt, and 
olives, and cheese, and onions, or any other vegetables 
which are fit for boiling ; and we shall give them a 
dessert of figs and pulse and beans, and they will roast 
myrtle-berries and chestnuts at the fire, drinking in 
moderation. iVnd with such a diet they may be 
expected to live in peace to a good old age, and be- 
(jueath a similar life to their children after them." 

In reply to objections, Socrates answered : "I am 
certainly of opinion that the true and healthy con- 
stitution of the state is the one which I have described. 



DIET OF ANCIENT PEOPLES 127 

But if you wish to see the state iu a fever, I have no 
objection." 

They will want all sorts of luxuries in the fevered 
state, Socrates admits ; and " the city will have to 
fill and swell with a multitude of calling's which 

o 

are not required by any natural want." ..." And 
there will be hosts of animals if people are to eat 
them." And living in this way, he says, there will 
certainly be a much greater prevalence of disease. 
" And a slice of our neighbours' land will be w\anted, 
and then we shall go to war, Glaucon, that will be the 
next thinsr. Then, without determinins; whether war 
does good or harm, thus much we may affirm, that 
now we have discovered war to be derived from causes 
which are also the causes of almost all the evils in 
States, private as well as public." ^^ 

In another passage, Plato concludes : " Then virtue 
is the health and beauty and well-being of the soul, 
and vice is the disease and weakness and deformity of 
the soul. And good practices lead to virtue, and evil 
practices lead to vice." ^^ 



CHAPTER V 

Diet ix the Middle Ages and Later 

The present tendency is towards an equality in 
fare among employers and employed. Labourers eat 
more flesh, and many of the well-to-do have learnt the 
value of porridge and fruit. There was plenty of flesh 
diet among the rich, at least in the Middle Ages. " Two 
courses of flesh of four sorts should suftice " ; this was 
the reduced diet. Enormous feasts were provided 
on great occasions, as, for instance, an archl)ishop's 
enthronement. The quantities of rich food, of which 
details are given, are surprising.^ 

In the fourteenth century, in England the rich 
fiired sumptuously, as they have everywhere else in 
nearly all ages. Pork, goose, capon, poultry, beef, 
and mutton were much eaten. The names of flesh- 
dishes are still Norman, the names of foods from 
plants are Saxon, showing the diflerence of fare 
between classes after the conquest. " Bread, butter, 
and cheese were the ordinary food of the common 
people, probaljly with little else besides vegetables." 
Bread w^as often made from grain quickly on the spot 
after grinding. "The leek aj^pears to have been the 
principal vegetable among the Anglo-Saxons." Garden 
cresses and other herbs were in use. The chief fruit 
was the apple. Nuts and plums were grown, and 

128 



DIET— MIDDLE AGES AND EATER li^'J 

the small kernels of the pine were very extensively 
used. Cherries were very popular in the ^Middle Ages. 
A fiivourite dish was the tansie or omelet. - 

The English, according to Chaucer, liad a diet of 
white and black bread, milk, bacon, and an egg or 
two. They were healthy and happy because of their 
temperate diet.^ 

Fortescue, about 1539, said the French peasantry 
ate no tlesh, " but it be seldom a little lard." Apples 
formed a part of their diet. They drank water.^ 

In monasteries of the Middle or later Middle Ages 
the following bill of fare was common:"' — Breakfast, 
J lb. of bread, t^ pint of beer. Dinner, at 11 a.m., 
loaves, fish, Ijeer or wine, pottage ; soup, meat, and 
vegetables on all days of full fare. Supper, some 
drink and a little bread. 

The Trappists, following de Ranee, observed the 
rule of abstinence from flesh, fish, eggs, and wdne.'^ 

The labourino- classes in Enoiand have for centuries 
lived on a varied diet, consisting of bread, potatoes, 
cheese, vegetables, and occasional flesh, such as 
bacon, pork, or mutton. But for long periods bread, 
potatoes, vegetables in small quantity, and occasionally 
butter or lard and a little milk, were the common fare. 
Beer was much drunk, and in continually increasing 
•juantities. 

In the eighteenth century tea came, but was 
rarely much used ; practically it was above the means 
of labouring people. 

In the reign of Henry vii. fresh Ijutcher's meat was 
never eaten, even by gentlemen attendant on a great 
earl, except between midsummer and ]\Iichaelmas. The 
upper classes fared sumptuously, l)ut tlie mass of the 



130 STRENGTH AND DIET 

labourers lived on bread, vegetables, and gruel. A 
century ago the English labourers were almost wholly 
veoetarian. M'Culloch, writino- towards the middle 
of last century, found the consumption of butcher's 
meat in London to be twice as large as in 1740 
or 1750." In the middle of the nineteenth century 
the lalwuring classes consumed ten times more malt 
liquor than in the fifteenth and sixteenth century. 

The food of the Irish in ancient times was 
principally vegetable ; they are described by Solinus 
as 7roi](payoi, hcrbivorous, Spencer and Hollingshed 
similarly describe them in later times as vegetable 
feeders. Camden said of their diet in a subsequent 
age : " They feed willingly on herbs and water-cresses, 
especially upon mushrooms, shamrocks, and roots." 
Ware, who wrote about the time of the introduction 
of the potato, corroborated this account. 

Young, in his Tour in Ireland, said : " When I 
see the people of a country with well-formed, vigorous 
bodies and their cottages swarming with children, when 
I see their men athletic and their women beautiful, 
I know not how to believe them subsisting on 
unwholesome food." At that time potatoes and milk 
were the chief and almost the only fare of the 
peasantry. 

As to Scotland, so late as 1763, says M'Culloch, 
the slaughter of bullocks for the supply of the pul^lic 
markets was a thing wholly unknown, even in Glasgow, 
wdth a population of 30,000. A small ox's carcase 
would last a small family a whole year. 

In the eighteenth century, Dr. Johnson was sur- 
prised to find men living well on the grain which was 
food for horses in England. It was pointed out to 



DIET— MIDDLE AGES xVXD LxVTER 131 

him ])y Lord Elihaiik that on this oaten fare EnoiL'ind 
produced the finest horses, and Scotland tlie finest men. 

The common food, according to authorities cited by 
Graham,^ was brose, porridge or oatmeal flummery, and 
greens boiled with a little salt. Scarcely any flesh 
was eaten. Beer or milk was the drink. Both men 
and women were robust, and subject to few diseases, 
none of a nervous nature. In 1745 tea drinkinof was 
rare, and much condemned ; in 1795 it was described 
as general, though no doubt not approaching the 
present vogue. The increase of tea and whisky drink- 
ing is reported to have been exceedingly hurtful to 
health and morals. In Berwickshire, one wrote : " The 
only extravagance the people are guilty of is their 
breakfasting on tea in the place of porridge, the con- 
stant morning diet of their more athletic ancestors. 
This debilitates them. The immoderate use of whisky 
destroys them ; disease and crime invariably follow 
this beveraoe." 

The fisherwomen were extremely hardy, wading 
into the sea in all weathers, and many were able to 
carry almost incredibly heavy burdens. Baskets of 
100 lb. were daily carried with ease to Edinljurgh, a 
distance of several miles, and the rest of the day was 
occupied with hard work. 

In the lowlands of the north, to the ordinary 
Scottish fare were often added some mixture of barley, 
rye, peas or potatoes, and onions and butter. 

Brindley the engineer found that his workmen from 
Lancashire and Yorkshire, whose fare was oatcake, 
hasty pudding, and water, did more work than the 
labourers of the south, who lived on bread, bacon, 
cheese, and l)eer. 



132 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Stubbs, in his Anatomy of Abuses, published in 
1583, wrote : " Yea, the most of them [our forefathers] 
fed upon graine, corne, roots, pulse, hearbes, weedes, 
and such other baggage ; and yet lived longer than we, 
were health fuller than we, of better complexion than 
we, and much stronger than we in every respect." . . . 
" Do we not see the poor man, that eateth browne 
bread (whereof some is made of rye, barley, peas, 
beans, oats, and such other gross grains), and drinketh 
small drink, yea, sometimes water, feedeth upon milk, 
Ijutter, and cheese (I say), doe we not see such a one 
healthfuller, stronger, fairer complexioned, and longer- 
living than the other that fare daintily every day ? 
And how can it be otherwise ? " 

Macaulay'' says that in 1G85, one hundred years 
later, meat was cheaper than at present (about 1850), 
but was still so dear that there were hundreds of 
thousands of families who scarcely knew the taste of it. 
He adds that Kino;, in his Natural and Political Con- 
elusions, roughly estimated the common people of 
England at 880,000 families ; of these families about 
440,000 ate animal food twice a week, the remaining 
440,000 ate it not at all, or, at most, not oftener than 
once a week. 

In this connection some remarks of Colonel Higgin- 
son concerning the same period in his History of the 
United States^'^ are apposite : " While the colonists 
were poor there was of necessity much simplicity of 
living amongst them. People of all stations made 
their morning; and evenins; meal of boiled corn-meal 
and milk (hasty pudding), or of pork and beans, or 
pork and peas. Tea and coffee were not yet intro- 
duced, but home-made beer and cider were largely 



DIET— MIDDLE AGES AND LATER 133 

employed. Bread was commonly made of r}'e and 
maize," 

Sir AValter Besant^^ has told in his last volume how 
sumptuous the fare of the richer classes was in the 
time of the Tudors. " The dinners were plentiful and 
varied. A salad was served first, then the beef and 
mutton, next fowls and fish ; game followed, . . . 
pastry and sweets came last. Honey was poured over 
the meat." At dessert, which followed, "an amazing- 
quantity of sweets was taken ; for this everyone 
adjourned to another room in winter, to the garden 
in summer." " The only drink was fermented and 
alcoholic, even the small beer which was the national 
beverage. . . . Vast Cjuantities of wine were taken. 
... In drinking sack, the cup was half filled with 
sugar." The quantity of sugar and honey eaten made 
their teeth black. No wonder that gout and other 
disorders were a plague, and cut short many lives 
subject to the surfeit, and incapacitated succeeding 
generations. Even Milton was affected by the con- 
sequence of the prevailing habits. In the Netherlands 
there was the same excess of feasting, with results 
which had a very important effect on the history of 
the time, through the disablement of some of the chief 
leaders in the oreatest conflict of that ao^e.^^ 

Tobacco was very largely used in Elizabeth's time. 
Smoking extended to all ranks of society. Early in the 
seventeenth century there were said to have been seven 
thousand shops in London where tobacco was sold.^^ 

By intemperance in food and drink, wrote the wise 
Sir William Temple, public business comes to suffer, 
and kingdoms fall into weaknesses, distempers, and 
decays. 



CHAPTER VI 
Diet of Kaces and Nations: A General Conspectus 

I. Europe. 

England. — The common fare of the population of 
Great Britain up to a recent date has already been de- 
scribed, and will be further alluded to in the comments 
of physiological authorities and others on the present 
condition of the people. During the last century a 
change has taken place which has already had far- 
reaching effects, and will still further modify the 
robust character of the race. The increase of re- 
muneration has been a source of strength so far as 
it has enabled the labourer to procure more abundant 
and better food, and in this respect the wage-earning 
families of to-day are given the means of thriving to a 
far greater extent than during a long period of our 
history. The fall of food prices since the establishment 
of free trade and the amplification of cultivated areas 
and of commerce, has added to the purchasing power 
of all classes. 

But with increased wealth come increased luxuries, 
some of them of a kind which, indulged in to excess, 
prove themselves much more fatal to the perpetuation 
of the family and of the race than poor and insufficient 
nutriment. 

Opinions of competent observers on this most im- 

134 



DIET OF UACES AND NATIONS 135 

portant suhject, Ijcariiig on the vital strength of the 
Britisli Empire, will be found in subsequent as well as 
in [(receding chapters. It is intended in this section 
to give little beyond the l>are particulars of the diet 
of nations, and, occasionally and imperfectly, some 
estimate of their physical character, especially of their 
development in regard to muscular strength. 

Great Britain, like Rome, rose to greatness from a 
plain and simple way of living, and, as to diet, the 
chief food of the people was derived from grain, roots, 
nuts, and fruits. The Scotch and Irish, who in the 
last few centuries were stronger, man for man, than 
the English, though much less trained and organised, 
subsisted on grain, vegetables, roots, milk, and occa- 
sional flesh. The rich at nearly all times had luxurious 
tables and animal flesh in variety — " viands," as the 
Normans called them, — and the names of cooked })easts 
were generally Erench, while the names of vegetables 
remained Saxon. 

The English during last century came gradually 
to substitute bakers' bread for home-made ; flesh for 
some part of their former fare ; tea, coff"ee, spirits, beer, 
lemonade, ginger beer, and mineral waters for water ; 
and during the same time the amount of tobacco con- 
sumed has enormously increased. Sugar, being very 
much cheaper, is also eaten in greatly increased 
quantities. Milk is less used, especially by children. 
Fish and fruit are plentiful in all parts of the country, 
and the consumption of fruit and vegetables has 
become (juite general. Pork and bacon are eaten by 
nearly all classes. Cheese is probably used in less 
quantity per head, the protein of flesh meat taking its 
place. The diet has altogether become richer. Judging 



136 STRENGTH AND DIET 

by the heaps of sweet cakes, pastries, and pies in the 
shop windows, which must somehow be swallowed, 
and the vast manufactures of sugar-plums, jams, and 
chocolates, the amount of sweet stuffs and fatty meats 
consumed must be enormous. Eggs are largely eaten 
plainly cooked, and in a variety of puddings and cakes. 
A very large quantity, comparatively, of chemicals is 
eaten, owing to the adulteration of almost all kinds of 
food and the use of preservatives and powders. 

The principal changes are these : The addition of a 
considerable excess to the nourishing food-stuffs ; the 
addition of many substances which tend to form uric 
acid ; the addition of a quantity of toxic (or poisonous) 
substances to the already fully nourishing fare ; the 
addition of fruit to a full animal and vegetable fare ; 
the disuse of plain water and the addition of minerals ; 
the disuse in very many cases of milk and cheese ; and 
the increased use of alcoholics. 

Toxic drinks, including tea, are probably used on a 
larger scale in England than ever before in the world's 
history. Britain, with her colonies, is now by a long 
way the most tea-drinking nation of the world. 

In Ireland potatoes and milk, and frequent whisky, 
formed till recently almost the only staple fare of the 
mass of the population. Now there is more variety, 
more flesh, more tea, more tinned meats, and more 
whisky and alcohol. Porridge gives way to inferior 
bread. At the same time several of the gravest 
diseases, notably cancer and insanity, are increasing. 

In Scotland the tasty and extremely nourishing 
porridge has been largely given up in favour of ex- 
tremely stodgy and ill-nourishing bread, and the really 
exquisite products of the " land of cakes " — bannocks, 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 137 

scOnes, oatcakes, etc., with Ijutter and cream — are 
almost despised in many localities. The expulsion of 
the people from the land of Scotland has been followed 
by an assimilation of habits to those of the Southron. 
But whisky keeps its pre-eminence, and shares with 
tea a dual control, which works ruin in every direction. 
The increase of nervous disease and of crime in 
Scotland is justly described as alarming, but probably 
the victim multitude will be the last to be alarmed. 

Takino- the United Kinodom as a whole, tlie richer 
and middle classes may be described as living on a 
diet of flesh, fish, bread, vegetables, fruit, milk, l)utter, 
cheese, pastry, and sugar, in abundance, and the 
labouring classes on bacon, flesh, fish, bread, vegetables, 
fruit, fat or butter, cheese, sugar, and pastry or sw^eet 
cakes, and on alcoholic drinks and tea. But the 
poorer among them leave out some of the most 
nourishing of these articles, and subsist wretchedly 
on such expensive items as watery and innutritions 
bread, tea, fried fish, entrails or scraps of beasts' 
carcases, pickles and jam, and often gin, brandy, or 
beer.^ 

Dr. Robert Hutchison considers that the chief 
fault in the diet of the working classes is excessive tea 
and bread. Dr. Young, of Belfast, testifies much to 
the same efi'ect." 

The eflects of the abuse of alcohol and tea will be 
noticed later. 

Tinned foods have largely superseded fresh food, 
even in farms and country cottages. Heaps of empty 
salmon tins may sometimes be found in the lal)0iirer's 
garden. And the children are often fed on tinned 
milk, an expensive and improper substitute for new 



138 STRENGTH AND DIET 

milk, but perhaps a little less troublesome to the 
mother. 

On the other hand, there exist a considerable 
number of artisan and labouring families who are 
temperate in their diet, who make sacrifices to give 
their children wholesome milk, who are moderate in 
drink, and even total abstainers. These are among the 
strongest and most trustworthy, and they are rightly 
held in honour. If we consider the number of 
mechanics in responsible positions, such as engine- 
drivers, foremen, skilled artisans, officers on board 
ship, etc., also the high quality of British labour, we 
must admire their temperance, success, and intelligence 
as heartily as w^e hail the victorious career of a 
commander or explorer. They preserve their growing 
sons and daughters from the common enemy, to fight 
when mature, in the most critical and continuous of all 
wars. With a better education, not in French or 
piano-playing, but in the conduct of life, the science of 
efficiency, our English stock would quickly raise itself 
above the present level of the mean, which tolerates 
ajDathy and fails to endow the coming generation with 
the elements of competence, bodily or mental. 

The following details refer to the recent or present 
diet of districts or classes in the United Kingdom. 

The miners of Cornwall, whose chief food was 
potatoes, were remarkably strong, well-made, and 
laborious.^ 

The Scotch, on the east coast, lived on oatmeal, 
milk, and vegetables. " Flesh is never seen in the houses 
of the common farmers, except at a baptism, a wedding, 
Christmas, or Shrovetide." Yet they " are strong and 
active, sleep sound, and live to a good old age." ^ The 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 139 

fanner's bill of fare wliicli Douglas gives contains no 
item of animal food. 

According to Twiss, in the Report of the Board of 
Agriculture for Ireland, potatoes and water with salt 
were found to nourish men completely. 

In England formerly, according to Sir Hans Sloane,^ 
'" the poorer sort have strong nourishment from milk 
meats (on which feed the longest livers), butter, and 
cheese." He himself lived to 93, dying in 1753. 

Adam Smith said that it is known from experience 
that grain and other vegetables, with the help of milk, 
cheese, butter, or oil, can, without any butcher's meat, 
afford the most plentiful, the most wholesome, the 
most nourishing, and the most invigorating diet.*^ This 
was, of course, the staple diet of Scotland when he 
wrote. 

The labourers and their families of England, Scot- 
land, and Wales lived chiefly, and most lived solely, on 
veo-etable food.^ In Devonshire the diet was milk and 
potatoes ; in Monmouthshire, three pints of milk, bread, 
potatoes, and dripping. In Lancaster, milk pottage of 
hasty pudding, potatoes, butter, salt ; sometimes fish 
or bacon. 

In Pembrokeshire, bread and cheese, oatmeal, pota- 
toes, and milk porridge.^ In Westmoreland and Cum- 
berland the labouring poor lived altogether without 
animal food. Their fare was potatoes, milk, and oat- 
cakes.^ Even substantial " statesmen " seldom had 
tlesh on their tables. 

According to John Smith, in the parish of Tiunton 
the usual diet of labourers was milk and potatoes, barley 
or wheaten bread, and occasionally a little bacon.^ 

In Ireland there was a universal dependence on the 



140 STRENGTH AND DIET 

potato during the first half of the nineteenth century.® 
" The habit of living exclusively on this root produced 
an entire ignorance of every other food, and of the 
means of preparing it. Bread is scarcely ever seen." 
Captain Mann, R.N., referring to West Clare, where he 
had been stationed and was assisting in the measures 
of relief, wrote : " The population being content with, 
and relying on the produce of the potato as food, there 
was a general neglect [of agriculture] and want of any 
attempt at improvement." 

Where the potatoes failed, Indian meal was pro- 
vided. " If a man use 2 lb. of meal a day (which is 
twdce the amount found to be sufficient during the 
late relief operations), a hundredweight of meal will 
last him fifty-six days, whereas a hundredweight of 
potatoes will last not more than eight days." [?] 

The bulk of the people of Ireland have been until 
lately practically vegetarian.^ Amongst the " very 
poor " of the famine districts few have eaten anything 
but potatoes, milk, maize, butter, oatmeal porridge, 
soda bread, and tea. Those who can afford it will at 
times add bacon and cabbage, fried eggs, jam, or tinned 
doughcake. Potatoes, buttermilk, tea, and whisky are 
the common fare. Rarely the flesh of the pig, goose, 
or chicken will be found on the table. 

A German coal miner describes ^° the principal diet 
of the labourers in Northumberland as consisting of 
bread, flesh, and tea. The condition of the English 
labourer is on the wdiole better than that of the 
German, and he is much better paid. But the English 
cookery is expensive, and the women do not under- 
stand the art of preparing food, except as regards 
baking at home, which is the custom in Northumber- 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 141 

land and Yorkshire. In Germany, peas, beans, 
lentils, cabbage, or carrots are cooked with the 
meat, and there is a change of vegetables from day 
to day. 

The consumption of flesh in England has been 
estimated ^^ at 136 lb. per head in England, 46 in 
France, 35 in Prussia, 84 in Belgium. The percentage 
is largest in London. The well-to-do classes in Europe 
generally are stated to make animal flesh one quarter 
of their diet. According to M. Payen, ^'^ a good 
authority, France consumed in 1859 ^ lb. a day. New 
York and London ^ lb. a day per head. 

At a meeting of the Royal Statistical Society in 
November 1903, a Report was presented by a 
Committee of Inquiry into the Production and Con- 
sumption of Meat and Milk. The average production 
in the United Kingdom during the previous five years 
was — Beef and veal, 35 '9 lb. per head; mutton and 
lamb, 17' 01 ; bacon and pork, 14 "61 ; total, 67*52. 
The average quantity imported was 5 4 '24 lb., so that 
the total annual average amounted to 121*76 per head. 
Returns of the use of these forms of meat in 247 
households for four weeks indicated an averaoe use 
per head in diff'erent classes as follows : — Artisans 
mechanics, and labourers, 107 ; lower middle class, 
122 ; middle class, 182 ; upper class, 300 lb. The 
average per head of the whole population thus calcu- 
lated would be 119*32. 

The consumption per week of each class is 2*01, 
2*35, 3*5, and 5*77 respectively. Group L represents 
73 per cent, of the population. 

The above weio-hts include bone and waste ; but 
poultry, potted meats, tripe, heads, hearts, tongues, 



142 STKENGTH AND DIET 

and livers, and fish, tinned Hesh and fish, soups, 
extracts, bovril, etc., are excluded. 

^lajor Patrick Craigie, the President of the Society, 
in his address, stated that food had been defined as " all 
that we eat, drink, and inhale." The present report 
only dealt with the consumption of some kinds of flesh 
meat. The import of animal Hesh of a certain kind had 
multiplied by 13 since 1857. In 1857-59 people con- 
sumed 5 lb. per head of sea-borne flesh, now 53*25 lb. 
One was tempted to ask whether the physique of the 
nation had been bettered or deteriorated by the much 
larger and sometimes wasteful use of meat, tea, or 
tobacco which the figures suggested. 

In an article of the Edinhurgli Review of 1875 I 
find this passage : 

Dr. Edward Smith, who in 1864 conducted an 
extensive inquiry into the food of the agricultural 
population, wrote: "The agricultural labourers of 
England, apart from their families, regarded in a 
general manner as a class, are not ill-fed, and their 
known longevity, with the favourable rate of sickness, 
can only be supported on that conclusion." "Meat 
or bacon was consumed [occasionally] by 99 per 
cent, of all the families included in the inquiry in 
England." 

Canon Girdlestone, on the other hand, described 
the diet of the common labourer of North Devon as 
follows : " He breakfasts on hot water poured on bread 
and flavoured with onions ; dines on bread and hard 
cheese, with cider, very nasty and sour, and sups on 
potatoes and cabbage greased with a tiny bit of fat 
bacon." 

The article proceeds : " Let us contrast with this 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 143 

the food of the Nortliumhrian, who lives on porridoe, 
scalded oatmeal, barley, and pea-flour made into cakes, 
bread of whole meal and fine Hour, milk, cheese, and 
Initter, home fed and cured bacon. Mr. J. E. Kebbel 
calls attention to the curious fact that where this diet 
has been superseded by tea, coffee, and butcher's meat 
(as is the case in the south of the country), there 
is a marked foiling off in the physical energies of the 
people." 

The letters of :\lr. Osborne (S.G.O.) to the Times, 
afterwards published in l»ook form, contain much 
information as to the way of living, and the hard lot 
of the labourers of Dorsetshire, under the heavy 
pressure of " the landed interest." They are fully 
and truly descriptive. 

In 1815 the factory workers in the north of 
England rose between 4 and 5 a.m., hurried to the 
mill without food, breakfasted at 8 on bread, or milk, 
and meal porridge, and tea or gin ; at 8.40 worked 
again, and continued till 12, wdien an hour was allowed 
for a rush home and back, and for a dinner consisting 
of boiled potatoes, sometimes with lard or fat, or a 
piece of flesh ; at 4 o'clock a small tea was eaten 
during a pause of twenty minutes ; the labour was 
then resumed, and old and young remained in the 
crowded factory till 8 or 9 in the evening. The 
result w^as deformity, ignorance, misery, immorality, 
and early death. ^^ 

The people of the Hel)rides, Lewis, South Uist, etc., 
and their immediate ancestors, have endured great 
hardships, especially from want of food.^* Formerly 
they were fairly distributed over the land and lived 
tolerably well on the produce of their gardens, and on 



144 STRENGTH AND DIET 

fish and fowls. " In old days cabbage and green kail 
were freely grown in South Uist, but after the evictions 
the people had no ground, even if they had the heart 
to cultivate it, and they fell back on certain wild 
vegetables." Goosefoot, wild mustard, young nettles, 
and seaweed, were eaten. Fish, seafowl, and poultry 
are now part of the diet, but the life is much harder. 
In South Uist the women are very hard worked ; their 
houses have no opening windows and no chimneys. 
The women become prematurely aged, bowed down 
with rheumatism, depressed with dyspepsia. The 
men, with their outdoor life, are physically much 
superior. " We learnt, what was sufficiently obvious, 
that those people of South Uist and Barra who sur- 
vived starvation died of the teapot. And indeed 
' the cup that cheers ' is the curse of these islands, 
in a degree never reached by the whisky of old 
times." . . . "The teapot stands by the fire the 
whole day." " Chronic dyspepsia accompanies the 
ever-present teapot." " The food consists largely of 
potatoes — often of very inferior quality — unfermented 
bread, often made of home-grown fiour, musty, poor, ill- 
prepared, with, at best, the addition of boiled fish." 

Of South Uist : If anything on God's earth would 
seem to be beyond hope, it would seem to be this 
island. They have largely lost the ease of manner 
and frankness characteristic of the islands ; they seem 
to have acquired some of the qualities of those who 
are crushed body and soul. It is " a tragedy which 
shames our civilisation." Water is unfit for drinking. ; I 

Trout, rabbits, and game are not allowed to be taken | 

by the people ; even the sea-weed, when it comes, and 
when the land agent gives leave to the people to get 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 145 

it, is hardly worth gathering, yet they crowd down 
and work on at getting it by starlight with the 
hideous intensity of starvation. 

" Thousands were evicted from homes in Lew^is . . . 
and from Tiree, . . . and those who remained were 
driven for the most part to little patches of bog and 
moor, the most barren of the whole district, while the 
country, fertile from the labour of their forefathers for 
centuries, was laid waste to make room for sheep. No 
sooner had they, l)y industry and frugality, redeemed 
these [patches] than the landlords, seeing the profit in 
acquiring what before had been valueless, drove them 
on to l)arren strips of sea-coast, where from the sea 
alone they could hope for sustenance." 

The heath was set on fire, the cattle starved, the 
houses built by the natives or their forefathers were 
pulled down and set on fire, many of the people died 
of hardships and cold. The barns, kilns, and mills 
were burnt, except what the land agent was likely 
to require. 

In Eriskay there was a similar process, hard work 
for life, eviction, redemption of fresh and worse ground, 
eviction again. 

The women are said to be exceptionally strong 
in childl)irth. Apart from the influenza plague, the 
islanders seem strong and healthy. A little time ago 
there were three people over ninety out of about 
two thousand. 

In the Report of the Crofter Commission it is 
stated that " much decency, courtesy, virtue, and even 
mental refinement survive in the sordid surroundino-s 

o 

of a Highland hovel." All who knew the Hio;lilands 

forty years ago must agree with this opinion. The 
10 



146 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Commission, composed mainly of landlords, reported : 
" The crofting and cotter population of the Highlands 
and Islands, small though it be, is a nursery of good 
workers and good citizens for the whole Empire. In 
this respect the stock is especially valuable. By 
sound physical constitution, native intelligence, and 
good moral training it is particularly fitted to recruit 
the people of our industrial centres, who without such 
help from wholesome sources in rural districts would 
degenerate under the intiuence of bad lodging, un- 
healthy occupations, and enervating habits. It 
cannot be indifferent to the whole nation to possess 
within its borders a people hardy, skilful, intelligent, 
prolific, as an ever-flowing fountain of renovating life." 
These are weighty words and kindly intended, but, 
as a matter of fact, the flow of good blood to the 
" industrial centres " is a very costly drain on the 
system, and without a speedy reform of the land laws 
throughout Scotland, " the fountain of renovating life " 
must soon cease to be copious or " ever-flowing." The 
crofter, who exists exceptionally, and only in a few- 
districts, " enjoys," according to Lord Napier,^^ " an 
uncommon share of vigour and longevity." 

Orkney turns out a larger number of young men 
who enter college as students than any other county 
in Scotland in proportion to population. ^"^ The islanders, 
except in Kirkwall and Stromness, are almost entirely 
vegetarian, and live on the produce of their soil. They 
are exceedingly robust and finely l)uilt, expert farmers 
and sailors, tender in their treatment of animals. An 
instance is given of a pony fifty-two years old, treated 
by his master with constant consideration, and at that 
aoe still sure-footed and useful. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 147 

In the Shetland Isles the people live largely on 
here, an inferior barley, and the bread made from it. 
Fish is much eaten. Tea is drunk many times a day 
in largje quantities boiled, and the people are con- 
sequently rapidly losing in health, strength, and 
appearance. ^' 

In the Orkneys oatmeal porridge, potatoes, and milk 
are largely eaten, and fish occasionally. Tea is drunk 
to excess with disastrous results. Black currants are 
much grown and preserved. In the towns a certain 
amount of flesh is eaten. In Caithness and Sutherland 
the shepherds occasionally eat mutton, but only when 
tainted with disease.^" 

In the towns of Scotland flesh is much eaten ; the 
distinctive Scottish diet has almost disappeared. White 
bread [of an exceedingly lumpish quality], eggs, bacon, 
and tea have taken the place of the " halesome parritch." 
The excellent "Scotch broth" of mixed vegetables and 
barley is now seldom seen. Dried fish, mutton, and 
a very wretched kind of pork are much eaten. In the 
remote districts " kail-brose," shredded greens, and 
oatmeal, over which hot water is poured, is eaten with 
or without milk. Oatmeal with l)utter, salt, and sweet 
or sour milk was long a favourite diet ; so was " pease- 
brose." The })read and tea which have supplanted 
the wholesome and more tasty national dishes seem to 
be responsiljle for a vast increase of physical infirmities, 
and even of crime, and of a very notable loss of strength 
in the Scottish people.^" 

The author has seen the strono-est Hio-hlanders 
wrecked in their prime through the change of conditions 
after some years' residence in England with unac- 
customed luxurious living. 



148 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Adam Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, wrote : 
" The chairmen, porters, and coalheavers, the strongest 
men in the British dominions, are said to be, the 
greater part of them, from the lowest rank of people in 
Ireland, which are generally fed from the potato. No 
food can afford a more decisive proof of its nourishing 
quality or of its being peculiarly suital^le to the health 
of the human constitution." The potato was supple- 
mented generally by a good lot of buttermilk. 

The Rev. Howard Malcolm, who had travelled much 
in Europe, Asia, and America, said : " The finest speci- 
mens of the human body I ever beheld I saw in Ireland, 
and they had never tasted animal food." It is reported 
that farmers in Ensrland declare that their Irish 

o 

labourers who are temperate are capable of a much 
greater amount of labour on potatoes and buttermilk 
than their flesh-eating English labourers. 

The chief food of the miners of Cornwall was 
potatoes ; they also were remarkably strong. 

Professor Eorbes made experiments on more than 
800 persons, and his tables showed that the Irish are 
more developed than the Scotch, and the Scotch than 
the English. 

Physical decay is a natural consequence of the 
growth of large estates and the consequent depopulation 
of the country parts. 

The States of the Church in Italy were most 
wretched and degraded through large, ill-managed pro- 
perties which kept them dependent ; on their borders 
were thriving peasant populations well distributed in 
small properties and holdings. Ptight habits in diet 
and many other respects are apt to prevail where con- 
ditions are fair and equal. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS UD 

ill old times the loss of an independent, frugal, self- 
respecting yeomanry was notably disastrous, 

Pliny said : " Latifundia perdidere Italiam, jam 
vero et provincias " (The large estates ruined Italy, and 
then the provinces also). Rome, like a parasite, drew 
the life-l)lood from the provinces, and was unproductive 
herself. ^'^ 

France. — The following particulars regarding ordi- 
nary French diet are derived from official reports 
presented to Parliament in 1871 and 1872 : ^'^ — 

Charente. — Good bread, a little flesh, vegetables, 
bread-soups ; cofl"ee in the morning, wine and water in 
the day. " Brandy is above all things to be avoided " ; 
it often leads to apoplexy and prostration. 

Cherbourg. — Soup made of beef suet, vegetables, 
and bread ; flesh seldom eaten. In the country, soup 
made with pig's lard ; porridge of buckwheat, butter, 
sour milk ; cider. 

Bastia^^ — All Italians live on the flour of chest- 
nuts made into polenta. 

Bordeaux. — (Note) — Englishmen cannot be too 
careful to observe temperance in the use of stimulants. 
Debility of mind, epilepsy, and insanity result from 
drinking absinthe. French physicians say it has sent 
a great number of patients to the St. Anne's Lunatic 
Asylum at Paris. 

Brest. — Coftee, soup, bread, butter, bacon. Soup, 
fish, bread, potatoes, once or twice a week. Water, 
wine, much spirits. 

Calais. — Much the same as in England, but more 
vegetables. 

Marseilles. — The labourino- classes are fruoal and 
abstemious. Bread and wine, and recently flesh food. 



150 STRENGTH AND DIET 

have been much more consumed with increasing pros- 
perity, especially in the towns. The Piedmontese are 
always ready to immigrate and do heavy work. 

Nantes and Brittany. — Vegetables, fruit, curdled 
milk, salt fish, sardines, shell-fish, bacon, pork, sausages. 
" Little meat crosses the workman's threshold." White 
wine ; cider. There is much insanity from drink. 

Nice. — Bread, soup, cheese, vermicelli, bacon, 
vegetables. At some seasons only bread, cheese, soup, 
wine. Meat is rarely eaten, except in soup. 

Paris (under heading "Nantes"). — The central 
markets ofi'er from 4 or 5 to 8 a.m. all kinds of solid 
food at first hand. Vegetables are very much cheaper 
at the early hours than later. Bread, vegetables, pork, 
sardines, various meat dishes, eggs, fruit, form the 
common fare, and red wine and coff"ee are largely 
drunk. Black cofiee and water are taken by workmen 
whose trade requires great muscular strength. Absinthe, 
a frequent drink among all classes, produces a most 
disastrous effect on mind and body. " There is not 
much hope of redeeming a single individual who has 
once taken to it." Brown bread, sold by the muni- 
cipality at low rates, is not eaten, as a rule, by the 
workman. 

"At Madame la Baronne's house lunch invariably 
consisted of three eggs, three cutlets, three boiled 
potatoes, three small apples, and three rolls for three 
persons. ^ 

The richer classes in France have only two solid 
meals in the day ; a small early breakfast is taken, and 
various liquids, chiefiy alcoholic, in the intervals. ^^ The 
dejeuner between 11 and 1 may consist of some such 
fare as the following : — Fish and soup, veal with lentils, 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 151 

or beef with vegetables ; then a vegetable course con- 
sisting of parsnips, turnips, carrots, potatoes, haricots, 
lentils, sauerkraut, cauliflower, kale, rice, or macaroni ; 
dessert consisting of raisins, figs, prunes, nuts, creams, 
preserved fruits, jams, cheese, etc. The fish or meat is 
small in quantity compared with the vegetables. Much 
fine white ])read is eaten at meals. The sipping of 
alcoholic drinks and the cafe 7ioir are reponsible for 
much of the nervous disease and weakness now so 
common in France. 

The countrymen are, on the whole, strong and 
healthy where not much affected by alcoholism. Bread 
and coffee form the early breakfast ; there is a full 
meal, chiefly of vegetables and bread, about noon, and 
a similar meal, often with fruit, in the evening. In 
Normandy the diet, almost wholly vegetarian, includes 
bread, vegetables, eggs, and cider : in FiaisUre and 
other parts of Brittany it is similar, with cold water or 
cold tea, and too often alcohol in excess ; the temperate 
labourers work in summer often from 3 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
In the Landes the diet is vegetables, fruit, and bread, and 
occasional flesh. In Savoy brown bread is eaten. In 
Alsace, Lorraine, Meuse, MertJie, etc., sauerkraut and 
sausao;es enter into the common diet. 

Bread, cooked meat, fresh vegetables, and dried 
vegetables, in the proportion of 1, 0'3, O'l, and 0"3 
respectively, form the staple of the French soldier's 
diet. 

According to M. Dupin, two-thirds of the French 
people lived, in about the year 1850, on vegetables, 
maize, potatoes (or chestnuts), without flesh. "^ 

In Corsica, chestnuts, boiled, roasted, made into 
porridge, or baked with salt and water, are the staple 



152 STRENGTH AND DIET 

food of the people during many months of the year.-^ 
Vegetables are scarcely eaten at all, and scrofula is 
very prevalent. Infant mortality is high. Fish is 
eaten on the coast. Coffee is a very favourite drink. 
Few cows are kept, and goat's milk is commonly used. 
Blackbirds are much eaten, also the flesh of the pig, 
by well-to-do people. A soup made of trout, garlic, 
wine, tomatoes, vinegar, salt, capsicums, chillies, and 
pepper, may ])e called the national pottage. The 
Corsicans, on the whole, are neither energetic nor 
distinguished. 

The French labourers have for a Ions; time been 
somewhat deficient in proper nourishment. Mr. 
Brassey, the contractor, related that in making the 
railway from Paris to Rouen, the English workmen did 
one-third more work than the French, until after the 
French had been given roast l»eef, when the work 
became equal. 

The division of land in France, well apportioned as 
it is with security to the holder, contributes very 
notably not only to the welfare of the family, but to the 
stability of the State. In rich and teeming country- 
sides, such as abound in France, says Madame 
Duclaux,^* the excessive (?) division of property has 
pretty generally done more good than harm. Three 
acres and a cow are not usually sufficient for a family. 
At Voulangis, 1750 acres were divided into 10,600 
lots of land. The flowers, and eggs, and fruit of 
France are " sources of incalculable riches." 

Italy. — According to the Official Report, the food 
of the Italian peasant in many parts consists of beans, 
oil, and bread. The two latter articles are especially 
important in winter. Lentils, lupins, etc., are used : 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 153 

Hesli meat only rarely. jMelons and unripe fiuit often 
cause illness. The vilest spirits are drunk, and are 
exceedingly poisonous. 

Najjles — Ordinary diet : macaroni, bread, fruit, 
vegetables, a little meat. Breakfast : coffee and bread. 
Dinner : bread, fruit, wine. Late meal : macaroni, 
vegetables, fish (sometimes), wine. Once a week, flesh. 
Englishmen have to avoid spirits, but may drink wine. 

Rome. — Bread, macaroni (staple) ; in the middle 
classes, pork in great quantity, injurious to health. 

Venice. — Polenta, made into pudding or cake, is 
the almost exclusive article of diet of the peasantry and 
labouring classes ; it is eaten with a little fried fish or 
cheese. 

In the Further Reports, it is stated that at Bastia 
all Italian labourers live on the liour of chestnuts, made 
into polenta. 

Ancona. — Lentils, fish, maize, sometimes flesh. 

Genoa. — Pasta soup, bread, cheese, lard, fruit, thin 
wine. 

Sicily. — Bread, macaroni, cheese, pulse, vegetables, 
fruit, fish occasionally, flesh once a week, pure cheap 
wine ; the labourers are hard workers. Another 
account ^^ gives the fruit of the prickly pear as the food 
of the poorer part of the population throughout several 
months of the year. " Bread and some fruit are almost 
the exclusive diet of the majority of the population." 
But flesh is actually imported for the tables of the 
richer classes. The food of the peasants in Sicily is 
good, says Mr. Beauclerk, but their houses are " very 
bad indeed." ^'' 

According to Villari,^" the food of the Italian lower 
classes consists mainh' of wheaten bread or maize. 



154 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The latter is eaten as polenta, and is often preferred to 
bread, or even Hesh, as it causes a feeling of satiety, 
which other or better viands cannot produce. 

In Apulia, when the olives are pressed, the 
labourers often work nineteen or twenty consecutive 
hours. 

A ojreat deal of nutritious ve2:etable food is eaten 
by the poor, especially pulse, celery, radishes, and 
fruit, but very little flesh ; many never taste this 
except on feast days. Salt fish, bacon, frogs, and 
snails are more usual. 

A fairly well-to-do peasant has for breakfast (after 
two or three hours' work), bread, cheese and vegetables ; 
for dinner a large dish of polenta, with oil, garlic, and 
anchovies, or a thick soup, with beans and vegetables, 
or macaroni ; wine is drunk with the meal. The supper 
is similar, but lighter. 

The majority of the farmers and labourers of the 
south have much less variety ; their fare is often 
polenta or macaroni with little else. Sugar, biscuits, 
and coff'ee are little used, and jam is unknown. ^^ 

A good authority has stated ^^ that the staple food 
of Southern Italy is macaroni, dressed in a variety of 
ways ; of Northern Italy, polenta (maize), with fruit, 
vegetables, macaroni, eggs, and bread. The peasantry 
eat very little flesh ; the majority have perhaps always 
been almost wholly vegetarian. They are strong and 
hardy ; women, as well as men, can bear enormous 
burdens, and are most industrious. Chestnuts are 
very largely used by the poor, and so are tomatoes. 
Flesh is much more eaten in the towns than in the 
country. 

According to Dr. Lyon the usual food of the 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 155 

labouring classes in the north is crushed maize. Cattle 
are plentiful, but liesh meat is difficult to get. 

As regards Tiiscany, the following quotation "^^ gives 
a good idea of a common diet : — " A gardener will 
l)ring with him the material for his midday meal — 
dry bread, washed down by a little thin red wine, 
watered grape-skins. He will probably have a hot 
supper of beans, salt fish, perhaps a little stew of meat 
or vegetables, and, of course, the good nourishing soup, 
which is universal." 

There are places in Italy, says Mr. Beauclerk, where 
the peasants have never even seen wheaten bread, and 
live almost entirely on chestnut bread and inferior 
food. 

In Calabria and much of Southern Italy the 
peasants live on bread, oil, and vegetables. The 
houses are very bad and dirty, and the inftint mortality 
is very great. The herdsmen live on bread, cheese, 
and milk. They are very robust, and exposed to all 
weathers. 

In Girgenti the Mafia still flourishes, and morality 
is nearly extinct in both people and priests. Uxoricide 
is astoundingly common. ..." All this in the midst 
of vast superstition, superficial religious faith, and 
abject saint - worship in every hovel and house of 
evil." 

The peasants of Terra di Lavoro are very simple 
and frugal in their habits. They subsist almost wholly 
on a vegetable diet, chiefly maize. They are strong 
and healthy. Infant mortality is small. Pellagra is 
unknown. At Gaeta the women carry great weights 
with ease. 

In the valley of Liicana longevity of ninety or even 



156 STRENGTH AND DIET 

a hundred is not uncommon. In Campagna Ijlack 
bread and vegetables form tlie staple diet. The houses 
are very squalid and poor. Longevity is common, but 
the hard labour through thirty or thirty-fiv^e years 
breaks down even strong men. Except in the imme- 
diate vicinity of the cities the morality is generally pure. 

In the Roman Campagna maize, vegetables, and 
cheese form the chief, often the onl}^, food. The 
physical condition is excellent, and there is no pellagra. 
Morality is good. Women work to excess, usually 
for ten hours a day. 

In Apulia and the Ahriizzi the food is chiefly 
farinaceous and vegetable ; flesh is not eaten ; the 
usual soup of the labourer is bread and salt water ; 
many live on cakes of barley and carob-beans, except 
at harvest-time, when they get plenty of food. The 
houses are most wretched. 

In Umhria the morality, manners, and customs of 
the peasants are extremely good. AVages are small. 
Food chiefly maize ; it is apparently sufticient, though 
only two meals are eaten — at 9 a.m. and in the 
evening. In harvest-time five or six meals are taken. 
Water fermented in leasmust is the ordinary drink. 
The houses are bad. 

In Ancona, etc. (the Marches), the peasants are 
frugal. 

In Bologna and the neighbouring provinces the 
fare is coarse bread, chestnuts, and herbs. Meat and 
vegetables are not much used. Soup and maize are 
common, and polenta and water sustain the casual 
labourer. The excessive use of maize seems to be 
harmful. 

In Liguria the peasants' huts are hardly fit for 



i 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 157 

habitation. Laiul is very minutely divickMl. Houses 
in the small towns are wretched in the extreme, filthy 
beyond description. Garrets and hovels are crowded. 
In the country there are some habitations almost 
human, but cattle-sheds are always inside. The 
longevity is good, the infant mortality 18 per cent. 
[The food is not stated, but from acquaintance with 
Liguria I am able to say that formerly it was very 
simple and frugal. The common fare will be described 
later.] 

In Pontremoli, etc., girls of eighteen or twenty 
carry 30 kilos, on their heads, men carry 45 kilos., 
and children of twelve or fourteen carry 20 kilos. 
With these they walk six to eight miles in the mountains. 
Heart disease is common. [On the Riviera, in 1866, 
and more recently, I have seen the women habitually 
carrying enormous weights.] 

In the hill region of Lomhardy bread, polenta, and 
vegetables were the staple diet of the majority. They 
do not get enough, and the quality is poor. Musty 
maize produces pellagra. On the whole, the peasants 
are strong and well-behaved. 

In the Venetian Provinces and the hill reaion of 
Verona the diet is chiefly maize. The food is poor 
and insufficient. Flesh is eaten twice a year. The 
people rise at dawn, and retire to rest at sunset. They 
are robust, honest, and kindly. In the plains there is 
great infant mortality from the mothers being at hard 
work, and from the consequent deficiency of natural 
milk-feedino-. 

In Sardinia, the labourers receive corn as well as 
wages, and very great care is exercised in the baking 
of bread. They are well fed, happy, and contented ; 



158 STRENGTH AND DIET 

the men of the country are robust, tall, brave, and 
iutellij^ent. 

According to Deecke,^"^ polenta is indispensable to 
the working classes in North Italy. Beans are used in 
great quantities in some parts. Hazel-nuts are roasted 
like chestnuts. Chestnuts are very largely grown, and 
were largely exported. The area under chestnuts is 
stated to be 1,020,000 acres, less than some years ago, 
owing to the increased growth of chestnuts in neigh- 
bourino- countries. 

In Sicily, a rather detailed account states that the 
peasantry live almost entirely on the fruit of the wild 
cactus, Barbary figs, with a little bread and coffee. All 
classes are fond of pig's flesh. The richer classes eat 
much animal flesh, as in other countries ; the favourite 
dish is veal, stewed with macaroni. Almonds, apples, 
figs, olives, and grapes are eaten by the labouring- 
classes. At Messina, fish is largely consumed. On 
feast days, a favourite dish is grated chestnut, sugar, 
and stoat's milk cream baked into a soufflee, with salted 
almonds, dried figs, and olives. 

The Sicilians are not particularly strong ; nor 
energetic, intellectual, or long lived. 

The author of the article on Sicily in the Supple- 
ment to the ninth edition of the Eyicyclopcedia 
Britannica, however, gives a very favourable account 
of the Sicilian workman. Industry, order, and sobriety, 
bravery, and a high moral sentiment are common, and 
the condition of the peasant in the zone of small 
properties is bearable. The diet of the people is 
bread, almost exclusively. 

Villari and others describe the condition of the 
sulphur miners as most horribly degraded. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 159 

111 Lomhanhj and Venetia, says this autlior, the 
majoritv of day hihourers and small farmers eat less 
than a well-to-do peasant, sometimes nothing hut 
polenta or macaroni. 

In liis recent hook on the Riviera, Mr. C. Casey 
says : ^' ''The regular dinner of a labourer is a lump 
of bread covered with slices of tomato, and smeared 
with olive oil." Butter is not to be had away from 
the coast. The Romans seem to have begun and ended 
their dinner with olives : " Inchoat atque eadem finit 
oliva da pes." 

In the mountain villages north of Nice the poorer 
folk subsisted until Cjuite lately on the fruits of the 
castanea vesca [the chestnut]. 

" Polenta, or Indian corn porridge, is the chief food 
of the Piedmontese." ..." These Piedmontese do the 
hard manual work of this part of the world ; they 
work as navvies, porters, and so forth. They are, 
many of them, powerfully made." They are tall of 
stature. 

[The pellagra, a fatal disease, is alluded to as affect- 
ing maize -eaters ; it is now known to be caused by 
mouldy or microbe-affected maize, in bad condition.] 

The lazaroni of Naples are stated ^'' to have lived 
chiefly on coarse bread and jjotatoes, and slightly 
acidulated water. They were a tall and robust class of 
men. 

Millet was largely used in Italy and the Iberian 
peninsula, and is a nutritious food.^^ 

Spain. — The Official Report states that at Alicante 
salt fish, oil, rice, potatoes, and beans form the staple. 
Flesh is very seldom eaten. In Cadiz, bread, oil, 
garlic, some fish or pork occasionally, fruit, and water 



160 STRENGTH AND DIET 

are the fare. The people are frugal. In Andalusia, 
bread and vegetables in winter, and cucumber and 
bread soup. 

In the Basque Provinces, "puchero" soup (vege- 
table), a little coarse meat or stockfish, oil, pease, 
lard. 

In the Balearic Isles, bread, rice, potatoes especi- 
ally, pulse, fish, a little flesh, fruit, coffee. 

Kose, in his Untrodden Spain and her Black 
Country, said of the Spaniards : " Their fare is the 
very simplest. Bread and fruit, with now and then a 
wineglass of rough red wine, is the staple of their 
sustenance." 

"At 11 a.m. the Spanish labourer will have a good 
hunk of bread and some fruit or lard. It is perfectly 
marvellous on how little support a Spanish labourer 
will work, and, what is more, w^ork well ; he scarcely 
ever tastes meat. Fried fish, when he can get it, peas, 
melons, bread, coflee, sweet batatas, tomatoes in oil, a 
kind of egg-plant boiled in oil, — on such sustenance as 
this the dock labourer will lift heavy weights week 
after w^eek, the soldier will march. . . . We all know 
that no soldier can march as does the Spaniard," 

The miner eats more flesh, also more fruit. Bread, 
fruit, vegetables, oil, potatoes, capsicums, goat flesh, 
constitute the miner's fare. Bread and fruit always 
are the main theme. All classes eat fruit largely ; 
" every mother gives her child daily three oranges." 
The servants are stronger, work harder and more will- 
ingly than their fellows in England. Lettuces, onions, 
beans, egg-plants, oil, goat flesh, tomatoes, fruit, and 
bread are their usual fare.^"* 

Portugal. — The Portuguese, like the Algerians, 



DIET OF IMAGES AXD XATIOXS IGI 

subsist largely on the oUa, which resemljles the kous- 
kousou of the x41gei-iaiis, the staple dish of neighbouring 
North Africa, a " mess of pottage." ^^ 

Vegetable soups are almost unknown. The cake 
most popular among the lower classes is compounded 
from maize Hour, carbonate of soda, salt, olive oil, and 
honey. The Portuguese are very fond of stewing 
their food of almost every kind, and thus obtaining it 
in the most tasty and digestible form. Fish, Hesh, 
fowd, fruit, vegetables, farinacea, are converted into 
stews, not permitted to boil, but only to simmer gently 
and slowly. This custom seems very favourable to 
health and strength. Amongst the lower middle-class 
a mess of fish stew, with rice, red pepper, garlic, sar- 
dines, spices, olive oil, and milk or water, is much in 
vooue. 

o 

The water-carriers, a fine, strong, muscular set, 
honest, industrious, and gay, live on a plain fare of 
bread, olla poclrida, roast chestnuts, and other fruit ; 
and on feast-days add olives, figs, and oranges. 

The Official Report describes the diet at Oporto as 
consisting of maize and rye bread ; broth with a little 
meat, cabbages, rice, haricots, gourds, turnips, or onions ; 
dried fish, common wine, a little tea or coffee. 

Switzerland. — According to the Official Report, the 
following was the usual fare : — Bread, cheese, potatoes, 
vegetables, fruit. Flesh once a w^eek, in small quan- 
tities, in the country. In the tow^ns, much more fiesh. 
The reported consumption of flesh is 47 lb. per head, 
against 68 lb. in England (about 1870), but it is 
prol)a})ly really much less, as in the 47 11). the large 
amount consumed l)y foreign visitors is counted. Much 

milk is drunk. All classes live frugally, and chiefly on 
11 



102 STRENGTH AND DIET 

a vegetable diet. They all drink coffee with milk at 
least twice a day, geuerally with much admixture of 
chicory. Breakfast : cofiee and milk, without sugar, 
and bread. The better paid add cheese, butter, or 
fried potatoes. All dine between eleven and one ; the 
labouring classes have soup, potatoes, vegetables, bread, 
and black coffee. The supper is like the breakfast. 

In Fribourg canton the consumption of flesh is 60j 
lb, per head. In Tessin canton, polenta replaces bread 
to a o'reat extent. There is much wine drunk in that 
canton and in French Switzerland ; in the German- 
speaking cantons, beer and spirits are largely drunk. 

" The vegetable diet adhered to by the Swiss appears 
to have no ill effects, for as a race they are strong and 
healthy." Foreigners appear to thrive equally well on 
a flesh diet. The lower orders are usually hard drinkers. 
The w^orking day is reckoned at thirteen hours. 

At Zurich, ffesh meat is said to form the staple. 
The people of Berne, according to a writer ^^ of early 
last century, were very strong and active ; their diet 
was chiefly maize and water. Many of the peasants 
of Switzerland were vigorous on a diet consisting of 
little else but bread, cheese, and water. 

Mr. Jellinger Symonds, H.M. Inspector of Schools, 
Avrote : ^^ " The canton of Api^enzell presents the 
maximum of prosperity and contentment among the 
peasantry of Switzerland," "the most enchanting 
picture of the happiness of the artisans." INIr. Cham- 
bers said : ^^ Switzerland presents a spectacle of humble 
independence and happiness which is exceedingly 
pleasing to contemplate. Sismondi^'' wrote that the 
people are happy and thriving, the women vigorous 
and healthy. The common food in Switzerland was 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 163 

groat gruel, soup, dried iiesh, Hour cakes, milk, and 
fruits ; recently bread and coffee and potatoes, milk 
and flesh meat, have come more into use/" ]\Iilk, l)read, 
potatoes, coffee, and wine are the common diet in the 
canton of Schaffhausen. Prof. Vulliamin wrote : In 
the canton of Vand, coarse bread, milk, and vegetables 
were formerly the chief foods ; now white bread, 
potatoes, and fiesli or pickled flesh are common. 
Breakfast consists of coffee, or a thick porridge with 
cheese and whey, and often potatoes. At 10 a.m., 
cheese. For dinner, soup and green vegetables, bacon, 
potatoes, cheese, salad, pickled meat, and pancakes. 
The frugal peasant makes his meal of bread, cheese, 
and common wine. 

In the towns flesh meat, soup, Ijread, and vege- 
tables are eaten. 

According to the American Encyclopcedia, the 
peasants of some parts of Switzerland, who seldom or 
never taste anything but bread, cheese, and butter, are 
a vigorous people.'*^ In Sivitzerland and the Swiss 
an American resident says : " The people, even the 
better classes, live very plainly, and the lower classes 
very poorly. With many of the working classes meat 
is a rarity, and a few scarcely have it at all. . . . 
Adulterated coffee, soup, potatoes, bread, sour wine, 
and milk, these make up the usual rations of the 
Swiss workman." Many workmen have five meals a 
day ; their lunches, consisting usually of l)lack bread 
and poor wine, are taken in the open air. The women, 
whose work is embroidery, lead a hard life, and live on 
goat's milk, coffee, and potatoes, morning, noon, and 
night. A little honey and an occasional bit of meat 
on Sunday are luxuries. 



164 STREXGTH AND DIET 

The woodmen of the mountains live almost entirely 
on a very simple fare, consisting of a mixture of flour, 
water, butter, and salt, fried. They eat this three 
times a day with a munch of bread. Rarely, they add 
a little bacon. These men are extraordinarily hardy 
and robust, and display limbs " of truly gigantic 
power." 

John Addington Symonds has given a remarkable 
description of the strength and beauty of a young 
Swiss gymnast, " whose height was 6 feet 2 inches, 
who had the legs of an Apoxyomenos, the breast and 
arms of Apollo," and whose abundant vitality was 
especially striking as he moved across the screen of 
the distant trees. The Swiss generally, however, are 
not of a fine build ; they are hardy and enduring, and 
excel as wrestlers and athletes. Probably the large 
drain of Swiss mercenaries and Swiss guards to foreign 
countries in recent centuries has deprived the country 
of much of its tallest and strongest stock. As to 
intellectual strength, it is fairly high, but men of 
remarkable ability have been rare. The Helvetii, 
who were greatly distinguished among the bravest 
antagonists of Csesar, were destroyed and scattered by 
him, and their country passed into the possession of 
mio-ratino; Teutons and Gauls. 

" Taking them as a whole," says Mr. A. T. Story, *^ 
" the Swiss are a strong and healthy race of men, 
although in many districts the unfavourable infiuence 
of the factory, and still more, that of alcohol, have 
made tliemselves felt. . . . Scarlet fever and typhoid 
combined kill 339, wine and beer 465 victims in a 
single year. . . . The Swiss are, as a rule, well built 
and remarkably tough of fibre." After long residence 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 165 

among the Swiss, the author conceived for them '' the 
very highest respect, and even admiration." Drunken- 
ness now is one of tlie worst sins of the country ; 
the alcohol consumed is at the rate of £4, 8s. per 
head. The people in the more pastoral districts live 
very simply, flesh meat is rarely put on the table, 
save at times of festivity or of friendly visits, when 
the display is sometimes lavish. Potatoes form a con- 
siderable part of the daily fare ; with buttermilk and 
bread they often constitute the daily meal. Milk and 
its products bulk very largely in the daily dietary of 
the pastoral districts. Bread is often replaced by 
dried fruit or by curds. Many delicious dishes are 
made from cream. In Uri sweet cheese curds stewed 
in cream, and afterwards baked with fresh butter, are 
regarded as a great delicacy and much esteemed. 

Boys and girls do not pluck unripe fruit as they do 
in England. " I shall never forget the cry of horror 
or disgust which spontaneously burst from a group of 
boys who were fishing in the Aar when they saw an 
Englishman draw^ down the bough of a plum tree and 
pluck a still green fruit. It was as though he com- 
mitted some sacrilege." 

" The plainness of the fare on which these people 
[peasant-farmers] thrive — and it is much the same all 
through the Alps — is another reminder of how close, 
when w4th them, one may get back to nature and 
natural ways. Bread, cream, curds, ]»utter, clieese, 
dried or fresh fruits — these are the things on which 
you chiefly feed. Meat is a rarity." Coffee " is 
almost the only exotic," and is made with milk alone. 

In the Schwytz canton the people have long lived 
on plant food, without flesh, They are a fine set of 



166 STRENGTH AND DIET 

independent mountaineers, and from this canton the 
freedom of the Swiss was born. 

Geumany. — The Official Report states that in Saxe- 
Coburg the following fare is common : — Porridge, 
dumplings, potatoes, bread, beer ; very little meat. 

In Saxony. — Bread, butter, cheese, coffee, soup of 
meats and vegetables ; beer or brandy : this represents 
the average or artisan's diet. The diet of labourers in 
the country has less meat in it ; in the Iron Mountains 
bread and potatoes are the fare ; meat is rarely eaten ; 
the drink is thin coffee. 

At Leipzig. — Bread and butter, cheese, sausages, 
meat occasionally ; beer or brandy. In the villages the 
fare is plainer, and coffee is often made from roasted 
barley. Rye bread is the staple. 

In Hesse-Darmstadt. — Black bread, vegetables, 
some animal tiesh ; cheap, wholesome beer. 

WUrtemhurg. — Cold meat, ham, sausages, bread, 
and cheese ; weak beer. 

Bremen and N. W. Gevmany. — Much flesh, rye 
bread, peas, beans, lentils, beer, coffee with chicory ; 
little intoxicant. 

Dantzig. — Rye bread, milk, potatoes, vegetables, 
pork, beef; a little sugar. 

Konigsherg. — Rye bread, peas or potato pottage, 
bacon or fish, vegetables ; chicory coffee. The diet is 
healthy. Unripe fruit causes illness occasionally. 

Prussia. — Fresh meat exceptional ; moderate spirit- 
drinkino-. 

Oels, Pomerania. — Wheat, rye, barley, peas, 
potatoes, butter, milk, beer, brandy, flesh (sometimes), 
salt. 

Neurode. — Bread, potatoes, peas, millet grits, milk. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 167 

Plcss. — Rye, jDotatoes, cabbages, milk, butter, salt. 

Standel and Wernigerode, Pmissia. — Rye, potatoes, 
pork, butter. 

Westphcdia, BecJdingsJiausero. — Bread, vegetables, 
potatoes, butter, flesh. 

Koesfdd. — Black and white bread, flesh, milk, coflee, 
chicory, salt, etc., butter, potatoes, vegetables. Total 
cost per year, £7, 10s. 

Lii^pstedt. — Potatoes, corn, flesh, butter. 

Rlienish Province, Essen. — Meal, bread, potatoes, 
pulse, rice grits, vegetables, flesh, butter, milk, salt, 
coflee. 

Galenkirchen. — Bread, butter, potatoes, fat, cab- 
bages, coffee. 

G^'wmme?'sk(cA.— Potatoes (1800 lb.), bread (1200), 
oatflour, butter, bacon, milk, coflee, flesh, vegetables. 

Jidich and Montjoie. — Potatoes, bread, coflee, flesh 
on holidays. 

Ohriveiler. — Bread, potatoes, flesh, fat, salt, l)utter, 
flour, coflee. 

Wittlich, Berncassel. — Bread, potatoes, vegetables, 
fat, salt, coflee. 

Hamburg. — A few years ago [date 1870] drunken- 
ness was quite unknown among the German labourers. 
Of late the practice of drinking spirits has prevailed 
among the foreign workmen. 

Chestnuts are a staple food in parts of Germany and 
Spain, replacing bread, ^^ 

Accordinor to Count Rumford, the Bavarian wood- 
chopper, one of the hardest workers in the world, and 
the hardiest, receives for his weekly rations one large 
loaf of rye bread and a small quantity of roasted meal. 
Of the last he makes a soup with salt, and with it eats 



168 STRENGTH AND DIET 

his rye bread. Water is his only drink. He works 
harder and has a better digestion than the average 
Englishman or American. [This was nearly a century 
ago.] 

The peasantry of the Bavarian highlands have for 
many generations lived upon a diet from which flesh is 
practically excluded ; it consists of grain, pulse, salads, 
vegetables, some fruit, and milk. They are strong, 
active, healthy, well developed, and work the full day. 
They are good walkers and climbers. ^^ 

According to a recent account,^^ " the German 
brown bread is made of three parts dressed rye, 
one of flour. The black rye bread given to the 
German soldier and sailor is most nutritious, being 
made from undressed rye without yeast. Fer- 
mented dough from a previous baking is used as 
a leaven. The German j^^asantry eat white with 
black rye bread as a sandwich, and on this do a hard 
day's work. There is another kind of black bread, 
more delicate and sweet, called ' pumpernickel.' The 
English lose the required gluten by eating the dressed 
rather than the undressed cereals, and eat more flesh 
than any other European nation." 

Austria. — In the Oflicial Reports ^^ from Austria, 
the statement is made that bread, vegetables, and wine 
in Austria are good ; burnt barley instead of cofl'ee and 
tea is very strongly recommended ; high health is 
unattainable with the habitual use of tea, cofl'ee, spirits, 
or anything else that acts perniciously on the nervous 
system, and " the deprivation of these luxuries, with 
their attendant expenditure of nervous force, is far 
more than compensated by the serenity of mind 
resulting from abstinence from tea and coflee." . . . 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 169 

" Tea and coffee are tlie sure destroyers of the 
nervous and muscular system." 

The beverage of the workpeople is the common 
wine of the country, very cheap and liglit ; the beer of 
Vienna is better than EnoHsh. Intoxication is rare in 
Vienna. 

Another account describes the diet of the upper and 
middle classes, as like that of other parts of Europe. 
The labouring classes eat pork, Hour dumplings, milk, 
eggs, bread, and cheese. In Tyrol a good deal of flesh 
is eaten by the peasantry ; in Upper Austria large 
numbers live almost entirely on vegetables. The 
wood-cutters of Tyrol subsist on cooked flour, with 
water, butter and salt, and bread ; occasionally pork. 
They are very strong and hardy. 

In parts of the Austrian highlands, potatoes, milk, 
butter, and cheese form the sole diet ; flesh meat is not 
seen. The people are healthy, hardy, and strong. ''" 

Hungary. — The food of Hungarians is extremely 
varied. There is a great variety of loaves, cakes, and 
rolls. Milk-rolls, salt-rolls, carraway bread, and others, 
such as cakes, with grated chocolate, pounded nuts, 
walnuts, chestnuts, almonds, rice, maize, and rye-meal, 
are common. Chestnuts, plain boiled, or in many forms, 
such as stewed with cabbage or syrup ; walnuts ; black 
dried plums stoned and filled with nuts ; fruit salad, 
with a little wine and whipped cream ; fruit in great 
quantity and variety, and melons, cucumbers, and 
mallows are largely eaten ; also the seeds of sunflowers 
and poppies. Coflee or tea with a roll and butter 
frequently form the early breakfast. At the midday 
meal, Ijread, some flesh food, and fruit appear ; figs and 
prunes stewed in sugar are much eaten by all classes. 



170 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Spinach, carrots, and lentils are boiled, passed through 
a sieve, and served witli a little cream or butter and 
toast. Fowls are eaten almost daily, also peas, beans, 
and mashed potato with wheat-flour like macaroni. 
Wheat, whole-meal, rye, barley, maize, and mixed meal 
breads are largely eaten ; " family " bread is baked very 
slowly in wood ashes. Curd made from the skimmed 
milk of cows, sheep, goats, and asses, is salted and 
eaten fresh. This is found everywhere in Hungary, 
The peasants seem to live largely on vegetables, breads 
of various sorts, fruit, and occasional flesh. ^^ 

" The Polish and Hungarian peasants from the 
Carpathian mountains are among the most active and 
powerful men in the world ; they live almost entirely 
on oatmeal bread and potatoes." The Polish soldiers 
under Buonaparte would march forty miles a day, and 
be fresh for further duties next mornino-/^ 

In the Carpathians the various races, Silesians, 
Slovaks, Saxons, Wallachians, Moldavians, Bukovinians, 
Roumanians, and Turks, are all, in the main, vegetarians. 
All live on ^vam food to a laroje extent.'"** Their diet 
is as follows : Black bread of barley and rye, onions, 
goat's milk, cheese, salt, in some parts ; oatcakes, brown 
bread of barley, rye, and wheat, buflalo milk, eggs, and 
whole-meal puddings, in other parts ; white bread, 
cow's milk, fruit, and vegetables, in others ; maize bread, 
maize porridge, fruit, and various kinds of cheese, in 
others. Some people add a little fish, or bacon, or 
lard ; a few use butter. Many eat cooked fungi. 
Brandy is very commonly used in some form. Tea and 
coffee are almost unknown, except in certain small 
areas. The Turks abstain from intoxicants and from 
flesh food on principle. Thin cheap wines are drunk 



II 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 171 

in some parts. As a rule, the frugal fare is confined to 
the mountains ; on the rich plains beef and mutton are 
included in the common diet. 

The Slovaks, who live on a sour fermented decoc- 
tion of bread, with milk, bread, and eggs added, are 
slow, dreamy, pious, ignorant, and fatalistic ; not 
remarkable for strength in any way. 

The WaUach men are feeble, superstitious, demon- 
strative, and excitable ; the women are active and 
strong physically and mentally. They do not live 
on the Slovak soup. Fruit forms a part of their 
dietary. 

The Saxons live on farinaceous dishes, butter, 
cheese, milk, fruit, vegetable soups, bacon, coffee, and 
a little cheap wine. They are big, strong, practical, 
clean, orderly, severe, silent, hard-working, and un- 
romantic. 

The SzeJclers and Magyars are splendidly Ijuilt, 
handsome, energetic, poetic, inventive. Their diet is 
like that of the Saxons, with the addition of a little 
Hesh and light wine. Fried potatoes with pickled 
cucumbers and brown carraway bread is a favourite 
daily dinner ; their common drink is half-and-half 
coflee and milk. 

The Roumanians are tall, handsome, proud, and 
fond of ornament. Their food consists largely of 
maize, fruit, poppy-heads, and sunflower seeds, — the 
two last being eaten raw, sprinkled over dumplings. 

All these races are described as, on the whole, good- 
natured and orderly. ^'^ 

Scandinavia. — Grain food and milk, with their 
derivatives, form the staple food of Scandinavia.'^ 
" Skyr," curded sheep's milk, is stored in barrels for 



172 STRENGTH AND DIET 

winter use, and eaten with sugar or cream. A story is 
told of a Dane who performed most uncommon feats of 
strensth with this diet ; he is said to liave carried a 
stone which required many men to lift it to his 
shoulders. 

A meal in Norway is described liy one traveller as 
consisting of sour milk, thin rye cakes, eggs of sea-fowl, 
rich cream, and ripe fruit. 

In the hotels fresh fish and flesh are found in 
abundance.^- In the remote country the people rarely 
eat fresh meat or fish ; the meat is hung up, smoked, 
and dried for months before it is eaten. Salt herriuQ-s 
are much consumed, but farinaceous food, in the form 
of porridge, is the staple. The l)read is made of rye, 
or of a mixture of barley, rye, and pea-meal ; this is 
baked twice a year in very thin layers, called " flad- 
brod," and stored in heaps. 

Among more well-to-do peojjle, according to Mr. F. 
Vincent, fish and potatoes are the staple ; a variety of 
flesh meats are set out at the nine o'clock breakfast. 
At dinner, 2 p.m., soup, fish, meat, and pudding are 
served. 

Scandinavians generally are fond of raw or smoked 
fish. 

The Official Report describes the diet of Sweden as 
follows : — 

Stockholm. — Beef and pork, rye flour baked in hard 
cakes, soup of vegetables, eggs, and milk. Bavarian 
beer is the beverage. Coffee at breakfast. 

Gothenburg. — Rye bread, potatoes, oat or barley 
porridge, salt herrings, dried pork or bacon, cabbages, 
turnips, etc., form the basis of the labourer's food, with 
milk, butter, and cheese sparingly used. Fresh meat 



DIET OF IMAGES AND NATIONS 173 

is seldom seen. Fresh fish on the coast. A great deal 
of cottee ; little tea. 

Skarnia, Calmer, Gothenburg, Bohas, agricultural 
population, — Potatoes, rye, oats, barley, beans, peas, 
salt iierrino-s. Pork seldom, jMuch milk and cheese. 
In the far north, barley, potatoes, salt fish. In the 
to\\'ns, spirits are much drunk. 

According to Mr. F. H. Woods," the staple food of 
the Swede is a hard Hat rye cake, a brittle bread, eaten 
by all classes. In both Norway and Sweden rye bread 
and rye and barley Ijread are common. In Sweden 
there is an abundance of dairy produce of all kinds. 

In Norway, smoked reindeer is occasionally used by 
the peasantry, otherwise flesh meat is scarce. Cheese 
is abundant, and eggs tolerably plentiful. Fish and 
smoked meat are often eaten raW'. The modern Swedes 
are slow, patient, steadily industrious, but many are 
wanting in energy. There was much intemperance as 
regards drink, especially in the towns. Courtesy, 
hospitality, and a combined social equality and indi- 
vidual independence are everywhere observaljle in 
Scandinavia. 

The food of the field Lapps consists chiefly of 
milk, cheese, and reindeer flesh. They are not highly 
intelligent ; they were much addicted to drunkenness ; 
they were manually skilful. 

The Finns were in every respect superior ; tall, 
well built, hardy, and industrious. They lived chiefly 
on corn, vegetables, milk, etc., and on fish. 

In Russia and Sweden, according to Majendie, the 
poor lived almost entirely on some whole-meal food, 
maintaining a degree of health and strength beyond 
most whose diet is more varied and luxurious. 



174 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Du Cliaillu describes^'* a dinner which probably is 
typical of a feast among the richer classes of Sweden. 
Smoked reindeer, raw salmon, eggs, anchovy ; herring, 
potatoes, eggs, beets, onions, oil, pepper, in a "sillsallat" ; 
hard rye bread, thin fine bread, butter, old cheese, 
various strong spirits, etc., formed an ample repast; 
but it was only a "smorgan," or preliminary appetiser. 
The real dinner and the wines were very like those of 
any other country. 

In the island of Magero, " the most northern land 
of Europe," he found sheejD and goats being fed twice 
a day on fish, cooked and raw. 

In the Saltdal, a very primitive district, he found 
the inhabitants strong, healthy, and haj)py. There 
was not one emaciated or suffering from cold. The 
children were pictures of health, cheerfulness, and 
happiness. " Milk, cheese, cream, butter, flat bread, 
wild strawberries," and fish seemed to make up the 
usual fare.^'' 

" Tea and coffee I find very refreshing beverages 
when very tired ; it is a great mistake to think that 
the drinking of spirits refreshes the system when over- 
come by fatigue." 

The milk of the reindeer forms a very important 
item in the food of the Lapps. 

Grod — porridge — is the daily dish of the Nor- 
wegian peasant. For this barley is commonly used, 
but sometimes oat or rye meal. Potatoes are a 
great staple. Fish are much eaten, also butter and 
cheese. Corn and pea-meal, meat, and flour with 
blood, are dried and kept a long time, often for a 
jear. 

In Thelemarken, one of the most characteristic 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 175 

provinces of Norway, the people are tall, well built, 
graceful, and intelligent-looking. 

"The people of Saatersdal are the tallest and most 
powerful in Norway, and, I think, of the whole penin- 
sula." The average height of the men is about 5 ft. 
10 in. They are unlike most of the inhabitants of 
Norway, in character, and appearance. Many of them 
are hard drinkers. 

A very interesting description ^^ is given of the 
l)rovince of Dalecarlia, which has nearly 200,000 
inhabitants, in Central Sweden. The people are 
peculiar, primitive, the handsomest in the peninsula ; 
independent, manly, honest, kind, religious ; they have 
perfect social equality. And the finest people in 
Dalecarlia are, it is asserted, those of the district of 
Ursa. The men are strong, tall, and active ; the 
women exceedingly beautiful. 

The people are poor, for the farms are small and 
the families large. There is much serious illness 
among the men from the dust of the quarries of 
grindstones, where they work. The description of 
the people generally in this part of Sweden is most 
delightful. 

As to food, it is commonly poor and coarse. " It 
was, indeed, a great luxury to me to sleep in the barn 
on the newly - gathered hay, and to feed on milk, 
cream, and the plain food of these hardy farmers ; and 
I felt that my body and mind were strengthened by 
such a life." 

In the far north, in the neighbourhood of Hapa- 
randa, the temperature is often 30° to 40° below zero. 
The people visited were strong and well, satisfied with 
their common healthy fare. By economy they man- 



17G STRENGTH AND DIET 

aged to liave always a little coftee in the house for 
the friend or stranger. " They lived on coarse, flat 
bread, with sour milk, cheese, and sometimes butter, 
hardly ever tasting meat." . . . Now and then they 
would eat fish or fowl. 

The Laplanders are very fond of dried powdered 
blood mixed with porridge. 

They have " very great powers of endurance " 
owinQ- to the "severe training; from childhood" which 
they undergo. They are the hardiest of men — 
short, compact, slightly built. " Consumption, cancer, 
chills, and fever, and affections of the liver and 
kidneys, are unknown." The water is pure, and the 
drinking of sour milk prevents many diseases. "But 
acute diseases are prevalent." . . . "The men and 
women are active to a oreat age." Their life in the 
open air and simple habits and wanderings constantly 
on foot contribute to secure longevity. Some live to 
over a hundred. " Although the Lapps live chiefly on 
animal food, barley flour is almost always found in 
the kata," They mix their milk with sorrel-grass. 
They are great drinkers of coffee, smokers, and snuff- 
takers. The vice of drunkenness at home has greatly 
decreased. 

Norway. — The aeneral food of the Norwegians 
was rye bread, milk, and cheese ; and, as a luxury, 
thin slices of flesh with salt. A common treat was 
oat or rye porridge, with a few herrings."" " All the 
travellers I have consulted," said Mr. Twining, " agree 
in representing the people as thriving on this appa- 
rently poor fare, and in no part of the world are there 
more instances of extreme longevity." "They are 
remarkably robust and healthy," wrote Dr. Capell 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 177 

Brooke, " generally tall and good-looking, with manly 
openness uf manner and countenance. They can run 
full speed by a carriage for ten or twelve miles." 

Belgium. — The Official Reports give the following 
details of Belgian fare : — Coffee, strongly adulterated 
[or mixed] with chicory is generally drunk, tea seldom. 
Milk is scarcely used except by superior workmen. 
The common bread consists partly of rye. Butcher's 
meat is only eaten two or three times a week Green 
or dry vegetal)les, butter, lard, fresh or salted pork, 
form the workman's principal nourishment. Many 
live entirely on potatoes with grease, brown or black 
bread, and chicory for drink. 

At Antwerp, rye bread and potatoes. Coffee, black, 
for breakfast ; vegetable soup with potatoes or rice for 
dinner, and fish, occasionally a little meat or lard. At 
four, a meal similar to breakfast ; for supper, the 
remains of dinner warmed up. Inferior beer is largely 
drunk. 

At Brussels, the young workmen ate little or no 
flesh. Bad bread, lard, potatoes, vegetable soup, bad 
milk, much weak coffee and chicory. 

From another source I find that the Flemish 
laljourer had — for breakfast, bread and butter, chicory, 
coffee, and milk ; for dinner, potatoes, vegetables, and 
bread ; for supper, the same. Very seldom a little 
bacon, and other fiesh about four times a year. 

The Netherlands.— In the Official Report, the 
following statements give the diet for various callings : — 

A blacksmith uses rye bread, wheaten bread, 
butter, milk, coffee, potatoes, vegetables, etc. 

A mason uses bread, butter, bacon, lard, coffee, 

potatoes, etc. 
12 



178 STRENGTH AND DIET 

A bricklayer uses bread, butter, coffee, milk, cheese, 
sugar, Hour, potatoes, vegetables, meal, bacon, lard, 
oil, etc. 

A labourer uses bread, rice, lard, butter, coffee, oil, 
potatoes. As a rule no meat but bacon is ever tasted 
by the peasantry, and very little of that. They are 
generally temperate. According to the Further Reports 
of 1872, the usual fare in the Netherlands comprises 
bread, vegetables, peas, beans, and rice. 

A recent observer describes a common Dutch fare 
as follows : — Breakfast, bread, cheese, and butter ; 
dinner and supper, much the same. In some parts, 
porridge of oatmeal and onions. Some flesh, chiefly 
pork, is eaten by the peasantry. Coffee, beer, and grog 
are the drinks. 

Another, in the Report for 1870, says the labourers 
earning from 10/6 to 17/6 a week have for breakfast, 
black, brown, or white bread and butter, coffee, milk, 
and sugar. The evening meal is similar. The midday 
dinner consists of potatoes, carrots, turnips, fish, fat, 
and tea. More water than beer is drunk, more veget- 
ables than flesh are eaten. These people are remarkable 
for cleanliness and comfort, for their constancy in 
domestic and social duties, for economy, foresight, 
prosperity, and happiness. They prefer the Bible to 
newspapers, and fireside to outside meetings. They 
have more for their children by spending little on 
themselves, saving in beer to spend on bread. 

Russia.— The Official Reports (1870, 1872) give 
the following : — 

Riga. — Rye bread, various kinds of flesh and game. 
Beer and spirits are fearfully pernicious, being very 
largely drunk. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 179 

Tacjanvor). — l\ye bread, salt, onions, lard, suur 
vegetable soup, boiled l)uck\vheat or millet, and fat. 

St. Petersburg. — Black Ijread, soup made of meat, 
cabbage, potatoes, mushrooms, cucumbers, etc. ; tea, 
brandy, quass, and beer. 

Kertch. — The watkey (brandy) is an exceedingly 
poisonous drink, and rapidly produces delirium 
tremens. 

Berdiansk. — Rye bread, fish, cheese, eggs, some- 
times pork, or meat and vegetable soup ; weak beer. 

Finland, Helsingfors. — Rye bread, potatoes, a little 
butter, milk, fish, flesh very rarely, though very cheap, 
2jd. to 3d. a lb. ; schnapps. Honest, good workmen, 
intelligent. 

In the article " Finland " in Chamherss Encylo- 
'psedia, the Finns are described as a strong, hardy race, 
with high mental and moral qualities. Their staple 
food was rye, potatoes, barley, and various fruits. 

A letter from "The Helder" in the Sun newspaper 
in 1799 describes the Russian grenadiers: "The 
finest body of men I ever saw ; not a man under 6 feet 
high. Their allowance consists of 8 lb. of black 
bread, 4 lb. of oil, and 1 lb. of salt per man for eight 
days." 

The diet of the peasants in the interior of Russia 
consisted, according to Bremner,^" of various vegetables, 
pickled cucumbers, cabbages, and mushrooms, and with 
these coarse bread and milk. Butcher's meat was 
scarcely used, except in the largest towns, and 
butcher's shops were not seen in a journey of 200 
miles. Fish also is rarely sold from shops. 

Mackenzie Wallace said the common ftire of the 
traveller was black l)read, ei>o"s, milk, and tea. 



180 STRENGTH AND DIET 

^Majendie described the Russians and Swedes as 
maintaining a high degree of health and strength on 
whole-meal food. 

Another later observer states '^ that soup and black 
bread form part of the diet of all classes of Russians ; 
the most thoroughly national soup is made of beef, 
cabbage, parsley, carrots, salt, and pepper. This, minus 
the beef, is the common soup of the peasantry. Fish, 
beef, veal, poultry, and game enter largely into the 
meals of the richer families. Russians drink first, and 
eat afterwards. The dinner of the middle classes is in 
many parts of the country and in towns not unlike 
that of the English, and consists of four dishes. 

The " fast-diet " in Russia is very strictly vegeta- 
rian. 

The Russian peasantry, generally speaking, live on 
black bread and vegetable soup, ^vith smoked or salted 
herring occasionally, and rarely the flesh of beasts. 
Early in the nineteenth century the common food was 
rye bread, vegetables, and dried fish, such as belugse, 
sturgeon, and salmon. An enormous quantity of alco- 
holic liquor, vodka, is drunk by the labouring folk, and 
this excessive tippling has been greatly encouraged by 
the governing authorities and police. Stepniak, in his 
book on the Russian peasantry, says the average 
peasant family leads a life of privation which would do 
honour to a convent of Trappists. They hardly ever 
taste flesh. Whole-meal rye bread, and whole buck- 
wheat, and gruel made of grits, are dainties which they 
only taste during the few months which immediately 
follow the harvest. " The ordinary run of villagers 
eat bread mixed with husks, pounded straw, or birch 
bark." This miserable fare cannot, however, have been 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 181 

common except in the less-favoured districts, no doubt 
a large part of the empire. A soup much used consists 
of the sour fermented liquor made from black bread, 
with a plate of solids to be added to it, namely, boiled 
sterlet, raw ham, cubes of cucumber, green onion-tops, 
lettuce, crayfish, horseradish, and sugar. Mackenzie 
Wallace describes a Tartar meal as composed entirely of 
boiled mutton, with a little salted horse flesh thrown in. 

According to an interesting account by Captain S. 
Rowland, of New Bedford, Massachusetts, the people 
of Russia subsisted generally on coarse, black rye 
bread and cjarlicks. '*' Labourers would come on board 
in the morning with a piece of their black bread, 
weighing about one pound, and a Ininch of gariicks as 
big as one's fist. This was all their nourishment for the 
day of sixteen or eighteen hours' labour. They were 
astonishingly powerful and active, and endured severe 
and protracted labour far beyond any of my men. Some 
of these men were eighty and even ninety years old, and 
yet these men would do more than any of the middle- 
aged men belonging to my ship." " They were full 
of agility, vivacity, and even hilarity, singing as 
they laboured with all the buoyancy and vivacity of 
youth." 

In the Russo-Turkish war of 1877 the fare of large 
numbers of the troops was, for officers, millet pudding, 
goat's milk, cheese, onions, and light wine ; for the 
bulk of the men, maize, curds, and some dried fish or 
beef. 

Poland. — The general fare is bread and potatoes. 
The Polish workmen are strong and enduring. A 
mason will walk five to eight miles and back, and 
work all day, on little else than bread. "The Polish 



182 STRENGTH AND DIET 

and Hungarian peasants from the Carpathian moun- 
tains," said a young Polish nobleman, " are among the 
most active and powerful men in the world ; they live 
almost entirely on oatmeal and potatoes. The Polish 
soldiers under Buonaparte would march forty miles a 
day, and fight a pitched battle, and the next morning 
be fresh and vigorous for further duties." 

Greece. — The Official Reports give the following 
particulars on diet in Greece : — 

Patras. — The Albanians eat olives and bread, little 
else. Spirits should be avoided by foreigners, or 
sparingly used. 

Syra. — Bread, olives, salt fish, fruit, vegetables ; 
sometimes sroat flesh. Much damaoje to health results 
from excess in wine and spirits. 

The Greek people are described as simple, frugal, 
and abstinent in the extreme. 

" The Greek boatmen," said Judge Woodruff, ^^ who 
was sent to Greece by a New York committee, " are 
exceedingly abstemious. Their food always consists of 
a small quantity of black bread, made of unbolted rye 
or wheatmeal, generally rye, and a bunch of raisins or 
figs. They are, nevertheless, astonishingly athletic and 
powerful ; and the most nimble, active, graceful, cheer- 
ful, and even merry people in the world. At all hours 
they are singing, blithesome, jovial, and full of hilarity. 
The labourers in the shipyards live in the same simple 
manner, and are equally vigorous, active, and cheerful." 
They have a light supper or none at all, going foodless 
from mid-day dinner till breakfast. One " hearty man " 
in New England seems to eat as much food in a day as 
six of these Greeks. Yet there is no people in the 
world more athletic and cheerful. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 183 

Turkey ix Europe. — The following notes are from 
the Official Reports of 1870-72 :— 

Monastir. — Maize and rye bread are the usual 
staple; some labourers subsist almost entirely on bread, 
and eat 4 to 5 lit. a day. Olive, hempseed, linseed, 
and sesame oils, cheese, and milk are used occasionally ; 
meat, wine, and spirits only on festival days by the 
Christians. Salt fish sometimes, pepper pods, leeks, 
garlic. 

At ConstantinojDle. — Flesh - meat soup, cabbage, 
beans, and cherries are part of the common fare, 

Bosnia. — Flesh, vegetables, sour fruit, cheap spirits. 

Epinis. — The Christian population is temperate and 
frugal. The day is begun with a small cup of strong 
black coffee ; at nine, bread and olives are eaten ; at 
twelve, a substantial meal. The journeymen and 
labourers live chiefly on maize and rye bread, with 
cheese, olives, or vegetables, such as leeks, onions, and 
garlic. Black coffee they are always sipping ; ten or 
twelve small cups a day is not an unusual quantity. 

The military ration of the Turkish soldiers was as 
follows: — On five days of the week — Bread 2 lb., 
mutton 9 oz., beans 7 oz., rice 2 oz., butter 6 drms., 
salt 10 drms. On Sundays and Thursdays — Bread 
2 lit. 1 oz., rice 12 oz., butter 1 oz. 13 drms., sugar 
2 oz. 8 drms. Bread is the staple of their diet. 

The above dietary " was well studied " ; " the 
Turkish troops, in l)odily vigour and power of endur- 
ance, would not suffer by comparison with any men in 
Europe." 

Rice forms part of almost every meal with the 
natives. The eating of unripe fruit causes much 
disease. 



184 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Turkey. — The Turks, in general, are described by- 
travellers as endowed with a .singularly strong vitality 
and energy ; their excellent build, simple habits, " total 
abstinence," and normal vegetarian diet enable them to 
support the greatest hardships and to do good work on 
the scantiest fare. 

The Ottoman army consisted largely of men of 
" herculean form," who were water-drinkers, and rarely 
ate animal tiesh. 

The boatmen and water-carriers of Constantinople 
were, in Sir William Fairbairn's opinion, the finest men 
in Europe as regards physical development ; they w^ere 
all water drinkers ; their diet was chiefly bread, with. 
cucumber, cherries, figs, dates, or other fruit, and now 
and then a little fish. 

At Smyrna the porters carried in one load from 400 
to 800 lb. This feat can hardly be excelled anywhere. 

Gralot observed, in his voyage to Constantinople, 
that the Turks in war lived on rice, butter, and dried 
fruits ; and that at home a " tun " of rice with a little 
butter and dried fruits will serve a numerous family 
for a year. He attributed the strength and plumpness 
of the Levantines to their temperance. 

Further particulars of the diet and physical 
character of the Turks, and of Greeks, Arabs, and 
Albanians in Turkey, appear in the section dealing 
with the Asiatic continent. 

Montenegro. — The Montenegrins are able to 2:0 for 
a long time without food, but eat colossally wdieu food 
is plentiful. Loaves of rye bread, lumps of lamb, 
bowls of milk, and onions, are common fare on their 
tables. Milk and maize flour boiled in oil are the 
staple food. It is a hard struggle to live, and only the 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 185 

very tit survive. In tlie laiub season Hesli is plentiful. 
The men of Kolasliin are huge and extremely strong, 
good hewers of stone, etc., and of splendid physique.'"^ 

At Belgrade, Servia, the men have a habit of drink- 
ing cold water all day, and are singularly lacking in 
activity. 

Crete. — The Othcial Report gives the following as 
the common fare : — Coarse bread, olives, cheese, salt 
fish, wine, vegetables cooked in oil, grapes, figs, and 
melons in summer, meat seldom ; abstinence compul- 
sory for one-third of the year ; large potations of 
water. " The stransjer must eschew strono- drink, 
thoug^h used to it at home." 

Cyprus. — The people of Cyprus, who lived chiefly 
on bread and vegetables, were described by Hepworth 
Dixon as brave, sober, and faithful ; the men were 
easily turned into good cavalry. Sir Samuel Baker 
was greatly struck by the strength of the monks, who 
lived almost entirely on beans and barley bread, with 
the very rare addition of animal flesh. The people, 
during a third of the year, ate only bread and vege- 
tables, without milk or oil. 

Denmark. — Up to 1847 the potato formed . t-L^'^ 
main food of the poorer classes in Denmark. Kye is 
now the special bread cereal of Denmark. Barley is 
also used, and the growth of wheat is extending.*^^ 

Iceland. — Salted meats, dried fish, and rice consti- 
tute the chief articles of the Icelandic dietary ; coffee 
and brandy are largely consumed. The death-rate, 
especially of children, is high ; parasites and entozoa, 
consumption, gout, and rheumatism are very prevalent. 
The people live in a disastrous condition of overcrowd- 
ing, owing to lack of fuel. [The very large and fatal 



186 STRENGTH AND DIET 

prevalence of tapeworm is due to the dogs, which are 
inmates of these crowded houses ; the eggs are con- 
veyed from the hand which has touched the dog's 
skin, to the mouth, and reach the intestines, where 
they develop.] Iceland has through all known history 
been sorely plagued by famine and pestilence ; the 
better communications with Denmark now prevent the 
destitution from becoming so fatal as formerly. Iceland 
has self-government ; it has been long worked by two 
or three officials, without soldiers or police ; it has only 
one prison, recently it had none ; " rigid republican 
simplicity is combined with conservative pride of 
descent ; great self-respect with perfect equality." 
There is great respect for law and order, love of 
their country and its history, and a considerable 
amount of education.''^ 

Iceland and Greenland. — In Iceland the diet of 
the peasantry in winter is chiefly skyr (curded sheep's 
milk). It is kept in casks, and eaten with salt, pepper, 
or sugar candy, and the people live upon this, with a 
little mutton or salt fish occasionally. During the 
summer wild fruits, cresses, wald birds' eggs, and fresh 
"•tsh and butter, are added. Bread is a luxury rarely 
eateii by the poorer classes ; such bread as they have 
is black, and made of barley. Near the coast a great 
deal of fish is eaten by all classes. Richer people live 
largely on fish, mutton, vegetables, and gruel of barley- 
meal. The Icelanders of the country were industrious, 
strong, and almost free from crime and dishonesty, but 
one-sixth of the deaths were caused by worms derived 
from dogs which share their houses. 

The Greenlanders, unlike the Icelanders, are great 
flesh-eaters, and live almost entirely on seals, reindeer, 



DIET OF KACES AND NATIONS 187 

aiid other animals ; they consume large quantities of 

fat;'- 

Those Icelanders, whose food was largely animal, 
with only a little vegetable, were terribly jDlagued 
with scurvy, leprosy, and other skin diseases. 

Sir John Ross said that an Eskimo will eat 20 lb. 
of tiesh or oil in one day. Captain Cochrane, in 
his narrative of a pedestrian journey through Russia 
and Siberian Turkey, said that a Yakuti can eat 
20 lb. of fat and a proportionate quantity of melted 
butter in twenty-four hours. This was tested by 
Admiral SaritchefF by giving a man 28 lb. of rice 
and butter ; it was all eaten. Even larger quantities 
have been testified to as eaten by Yakuts and 
Tongouses. 

A merchant, at a banquet of " several respectable 
Greenlanders," counted the following dishes : — Dried 
herrings, seal flesh, boiled auks, putrid whale's tail, 
salmon, reindeer, crowberries, train oil. According to 
Dr. Kane, raw blubber and walrus beef were consumed 
freely, and narwhal flesh was found very valuable.*^^ 

For the expedition across Greenland, Nansen took 
dried meat, which w^as accidentally deficient in fat, also 
meat-powder chocolate, butter, Swedish biscuits, meat 
biscuits, strips of lialibut, cheese, jam, sugar, condensed 
milk. Seals and birds were killed during their stay in 
Greenland. Tea and coffee were found superfluous, and 
coflee prevented sleep. Weak tea was found to be a 
very refreshing drink. But Nansen says : " My experi- 
ence leads me to take a decided stand against the use 
of stimulants and narcotics of all kinds, from tea and 
coflee to tobacco and alcoholic drinks. It must be a 
sound principle that one should live in as natural and 



188 STRENGTH AND DIET 

simple a, way as possible, and especially when the life 
is a life of severe exertion in an extremely cold climate. 
The idea that one gains by stimulating body and mind 
by artificial means, betrays, in my opinion, not only 
ignorance of the simplest physiological laws, but also a 
want of experience, or perhaps a want of capacity to 
learn from experience by observation." As to spirits, 
he says, " there is no sufficient pretext for using them, 
and the best course is to banish alcoholic drinks from 
the list of necessaries." 

Tobacco he has found extremely harmful to men 
engaged in severe phj^sical exertion, and not least so 
when food is scanty. It injures digestion, nervous 
power, capacity for endurance, and tenacity of purjwse. 
A little may be allowed, and the quantity by degrees 
reduced, but " perhaps it would be advisable not to 
take excessive smokers or chewers of tobacco at all." ^* 

It was. he says, of course a clear necessity to forbid 
the sale of brandy in Greenland, on pain of greatly 
accelerating the extermination of the race. " Not only 
should the sale of brandy be prohibited, but also of 
coffee, tobacco," and other noxious products. " It 
took us a long time to make them acquire the taste 
for them. On the west coast we have been un- 
happily successful in begetting the taste for coffee,*''' 
and this has not a little contributed to the decline 
of the race." 

Nansen and his crew lived for long periods on 
bear's meat and fat without any ill effects. The 
Greenlanders have a similar diet. 

The Eskimo revel in fat and blubber, and eat 
reindeer, musk-ox, birds, salmon, and berries. They 
are middle-sized ; a few reach 6 feet ; their frame on 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 189 

tlie whole gives an impression of strength ; they are 
fairly intelligent. 

II. Asia. 

China. — The diet of the common people of China, 
and of neighbouring countries to the south, has been 
for ages derived almost entirely from plants, chiefly 
from rice. Before the foundation of Rome or Jerusalem 
they were a nation, as they are to-day, living directly 
from the proceeds of their own careful cultivation of 
the soil. 

The country people live practically on rice and 
vegetables, with a little fish or flesh occasionally. 
They are " hardy, capable of enduring extraordinary 
fatigue, obedient, and intelligent." In the towns, 
especially in treaty ports, they are degraded in char- 
acter ; and in foreign countries, although they may 
show great capacity and attain prosperity, the}' are not 
to be compared Avith their countrymen of the best 
districts. 

The rich in China, as elsewhere, are flesh-eaters to 
some degree, and many of their dishes are nasty to 
Europeans, such as birds' nests, dogs, and other deli- 
cacies, which are supplied to an omnivorous taste. 

According to Mr. T. W. Robertson Scott, Lord 
Wolseley said in 1895 : "I believe the Chinese people 
to possess all the mental and physical qualities required 
for national greatness." 

Sir Thomas ^^'ade also gave them a hioli char- 
acter.'*^ 

Dr. Rennie, at Peking, was convinced by his resi- 
dence amono- them that the lower orders of Chinese 



190 STRENGTH AND DIET 

generally are better conducted, more sober and indus- 
trious, and intellectually superior to the corresponding 
class of our own countrymen. 

A distinguished lady traveller descril)es them as 
the most local of peasants in their attachments, and the 
most cosmopolitan and successful of emigrants — sober, 
industrious, thrifty, orderly, peaceable, possessing great 
physical vitality, cheerful, contented, persevering. Their 
filial piety, tenacity, resourcefulness, power of com- 
bination, and respect for law and literature, place them 
in the van of Asiatic nations. " I like the Chinese 
women better than any Oriental women I know," writes 
Mrs. Bishop.®' They appear to have very excellent 
qualities, according to this observer. 

In commercial affairs the Chinese are trustworthy, 
but, as a rule, they are full of duplicity. 

Dr. Morrison speaks of their great strength. They 
amble along- under loads that a strong; Eno;lishman 
could with difficulty raise from the ground. The 
common fast-travelling coolies of Sze Chuan carry 
170 lb. 40 miles a day over difficult country. Some 
carry 400 lb. Richthofen states that coolies carry 
weights of 432 lb. over mountain passes 7000 feet 
hio'h. 

The Chinese all-round labourers, according to the 
Chinese Minister in Washington, easily distance all 
competitors. They are quite extraordinary in their 
capacity to bear heat and cold, and their energies are 
sustained by a few bowls of rice. 



The Chinaman eats and drinks little that has not 
been subjected to the temperature of boiling water or 



I 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 191 

oil, ami is therefore largely preserved from typhoid, 
cholera, aud other diseases which are caused by infected 
food. Conceruing the quality of Chinese food, a 
Euroi)ean would srenerallv say there is no stamina in 
it. Diseases, however, like rickets and gout, are con- 
spicuous by their al)sence. Functional disease of the 
stomach and alimentary tract is less common than 
among Europeans, and the teeth of the Chinese are 
admitted by all to be exceptionally beautiful and good. 
" Look at the clean-limbed, muscular Chinaman of the 
fields 1 He is the picture of health and agile strength 
as he sings through the hottest or coldest day's work. 
Singing at work, which is practically universal in 
China, indicates a vital energy in excess of that required 
for the labour in hand. . . . Drunkenness is practi- 
cally non-existent in China." Opium-smoking may 
perhaps be compared to tobacco-smoking or tea- 
drinkins:.*^^ 



Mr. AVeale is convinced that the reason why China- 
men have failed in war is that they were badly led by 
incompetent officers, and badly treated. Give them 
good officers, he says in his recent book, and "the 
North Chinaman will yet make one of the finest, and 
certainly one of the most hardy, soldiers in the world " 
(p. 368). In business intelligence "one Jew equals 
ten Russians, one Scotchman equals two Jews, and 
one Chinaman equals sixty Russians." This is the 
Chinaman of the north, but he is far surpassed by 
the Chahkiang or Canton merchant (p. 318). 

Roughly, the Siberian (Russian) soldier's chest 
measurement is nearly forty inches ; he has a fine 



192 STRENGTH AND DIET 

plivsique and great fortitude, and is " a very sturdy 
fellow." A plate of soup and a hunk of rye bread 
are his daily lot. He seems to need nothing else 
(p. 494). 

The Hesh-eating Buriat is small, l^adly formed, 
ugly, and stupid (p. 25 7 ).'"^ 

The Chinese are long-lived, have nerves of steel, 
and thrive in any climate.™ 

The author of the Back Blocks of China relates 
that the tea-carrying coolies carry 224 lb., and some 
even 350 lb., on their backs. 



"It is hard to find a dish in the middle kingdom 
that is not based upon the recipe of some sage who 
lived hundreds of years ago, and who had a hygienic 
principle in mind when he designed it. Chinese food 
tends much more to veoetarianism than does ours. 
Beef is never eaten except by Mohammedans. Mutton 
and pork are obtainable in some towns, but the only 
form of meat which one is sure of obtaining is fowl, 
which the Chinese know how to prepare with greater 
delicacy, and in a greater variety of ways, than any 
other people I have ever met with." '"' Other things 
one is sure to find at every well-regulated meal are 
lotus stems and buds, birds' nests, bamboo sprouts, 
pickled duck's eggs, and shark's fins.^^ 

Surgeon-General Evatt describes " a most horrible 
condition of ill-health, dirt, plague, and overcrowding, 
in the Crown Colony of Victoria, under the Colonial 
Otiice, " the highest expression of sanitary neglect on 
the face of the earth." In India, Persia, Turkey, and 
Chinese territory, under Chinese administration, he 



DIET OF KACES AND XxVTIONS 193 

lias never seen anything to compare for downright 
deo-radation of human life with the conditions to which 
the splendid Chinese workman is exposed in Hong- 
Kong. The plague has here become endemic — " a 
standing- menace to the human race." " A most vig-or- 
ous, virile Chinese race, full of energy, sobriety, 
splendid working power, and an intelligence capable 
of any development, is placed in shockingly degrading- 
conditions by Great Britain." 

The point, for the present purpose, is to bring out 
the Surgeon-General's testimony to the fine qualities 
of a race which for ages has been in the main living 
on rice and veoetables. 

o 

The author of Things Chinese states'^ that the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture gives the area of land 
required to support one person in China as one-sixth 
of an acre. Two acres support a family of five persons 
without outside work. Seven acres, according to Miss 
Fielde, constitute wealth as reckoned in China, in the 
Kwong Tung district. The Chinese in the country 
live on rice, sweet potatoes, yams, taro, beans, 
cucumbers, pumpkins, marrows, squashes, water-melons, 
etc., and sometimes salt or fresh fish, or meat. They 
give very minute attention to details in the cultiva- 
tion of the soil. In manners, they are extremely 
gracious and polite to each other. 

Every available spot is used for the growing of 

foodstuffs. The staple food is rice, millet, and sweet 

potatoes ; the last have in recent years immensely 

augmented the nation's resources. Vegetables of all 

kinds, vast quantities of fish and pork, poultry, and 

game, are added to the ordinary diet by many. The 

population is increasing fast."'* 
13 



194 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Manchiiria. — The tall millet is the staple food 
of Manchuria. It is also the principal grain feed of 
the numerous animals employed in farm work."^ 

It is eaten by the people with boiled flesh or pickled 
vegetables, like rice. An ordinary servant consumes 
2 lb. a day, a hard-working man is said to eat about 
double, that is, 4 lb. On two days in each month 
grain, flour, barley, and wheat is given, and on two 
days animal flesh. Spiked millet is also used as a 
change occasionally. 

Rice is grown on dry ground like other crops. 
Maize and buckwheat are also grown in Manchuria. 
The Tou-fu, or bean curd, is a product of general con- 
sumption in China. The green bean is largely used, 
and is manufactured into vermicelli. This bean enters 
largely into the native diet throughout the whole of 
China. 

The followino; veo-etables are oTown in Manchuria : — 
Potato, turnip, leek, radish, onion, garlic, carrot, celery, 
egg-plant, taro, and, most important. Shantung cabbage, 
which enters largely into the diet of the people ; 
melon, pumpkin, gourd, squash, vegetable marrow, 
and cucumber. The chick, a bulb smaller than the 
turnip, is much eaten. Seeds of sunflower, fungus, 
chestnuts, walnuts, peaches, plums, and apricots are 
grown in parts for food. Dogs and many other animals 
are eaten. The dogs are fed on coarse millet, rub- 
bish, etc., but they forage outside the dog farms. 

Korea. — " Upon the average, Koreans eat about 
one-sixth as much pulse as rice. . . . The Korean is 
omnivorous." Birds, beasts, fish — nothing comes amiss 
to his palate. Dog-meat, pork, and beef with blood 
undrained, fowls and game, head and claws intact ; 



DIET OF KACES AND NATIONS 195 

fisli, sun-dried and malodorous, all are acceptable to 
liim. Dried seaweed, shrimps, vermicelli, pine seeds, 
lily l)ullis, honey water, wheat, millet, barley, maize, 
rice, wild potatoes, and all vegetables. Their excesses 
make them martyrs to indigestion. 

" The inhabitants are peculiarly proficient in the art 
of doing nothing gracefully." The peasant woman is 
especially " active, vigorous in character, resourceful 
in emergency, superstitious, persevering, indomitable, 
courageous, and devoted. . , . She does the work of 
a man in the household and of a l^east in the fields." "'' 

The Korean diet (at least among the richer folk) 
is much varied : game, fish (raw), beef, pork, fowls, 
eggs, seaweed, macaroni, much fruit, especially per- 
simmon, apples, pears, and plums. They eat three 
meals a day — a small breakfast, large lunch, and heavy 
dinner in the evening. Pork and beef, barley roasted, 
are largely devoured. Among their victuals are hard- 
boiled eggs, barley, turnips, potatoes, radishes, much 
pepper, black sauce, and vinegar ; fermented liquors 
and lioht wine and infusion from rice. Tea is not 
drunk l)y the low^er classes. The Koreans, especially 
the upper classes, gorge themselves and stuff their 
children with food ; they have chronic indigestion, and 
are heavy sleepers."' 

Outside Seoul meat mostly consists of wild birds ; 
bacon is obtainable, but of a repulsive sort. Rice, 
eggs, dirt, and dried fish are everywhere. " The men 
are amazingly tall and broad backed." They carry 
enormous logs of timber or piles of iron that would 
crush the English labourer to the earth. They are 
trained to this almost from infancy. The very girls 
walk along the roadways with heavy loads on their 



LOG STRENGTH AND DIET 

yokes. But the people are clumsy, cowardly, and not 
the least athletic.''^ 

Mr. Lynch describes the lower and middle classes 
as broad-shouldered and powerful. One frequently 
sees coolies carrying enormous loads. "^ 

The Koreans are flesh-eaters and exceedingly vora- 
cious, eating fish raw — skins, bones, scales and all. 
But the common food of the poorer classes is rice, 
beans, spice, vinegar, rotten radishes, and sauce, and 
occasionally beef, mutton, pork, and dog. The men 
of the lower classes " possess tremendous muscular 
strength, but are lazy, languid, and timid." The 
women are more energetic. "^"^ 

BcRMAH. — The majority of the men in Burmah, 
during the time of their " monkhood," live " a very 
healthy, temperate life, eating just enough to keep the 
body in good health." A little rice, curry, and fruit is 
the usual diet ; no flesh. In large towns the monks 
frequently receive well-cooked hot meals provided by 
the rich. " The Burman is very fond of life, very full of 
life, delighting in the joy of existence, brimming over 
with vitality, with humour, and with merriment." 

The monks only eat twice a day, and never after 
noon. There is only one opinion of the character and 
conduct of the monks — it is admirable. 

The Burmans of Upper Burmah were absolutely 
total abstainers. The Buddhist religion forbids the 
use of all stimulants. 

Monks may eat any food before noon. Rice, 
vegetables of very many kinds, sugar and cakes and 
oil and honey, were commonly eaten. 

" Such a nation of workers was never known. 
Every man, woman, and child works. . , . The class 



DIET OF KACES AND NATIONS 197 

who live by other men's Itibour is uiiknowu." . . . 
" He does not care to interfere with other nations ; he 
thinks interference does harm.*' All killinu is wrong, 
all war is hateful. " In his own idea his nation will 
always be the greatest in the world, because it is the 
happiest." 

He believes in the great rule, " Let his life be 
kindness, his conduct righteousness; then in the fulness 
of gladness he will make an end of grief." {Dammapada.) 

" Never in the world hatred ceases by hatred ; 
hatred ceases by love." (IhicL) 

" Overcome anger by kindness, evil by good." (Ibid.) 

" Love each other, and live in peace." {Saying of 
the Bv.ddlia.) 

The Burmese are a community of equals, in a sense 
that has probably never been known elsewhere. 

Their feeling towards inferior animals is com- 
passion. They are not only reluctant to kill animals, 
they show perpetual care and tenderness to all living 
creatures. 

Nothing is more beautiful than the ways of a 
Burman with his children and with animals. ^^ 

Japan. — The Chief Consul of the United States in 
Japan, ]\[r. van Buren, describes the Japanese as almost 
wholly vegetarian.^' Beef is seldom eaten, mutton 
and pork still less, and fowls are too dear, except for 
special occasions. Fish is more commonly used, but 
nine-tenths of the ordinary fare is from plants. The 
Japanese, he says, are well nourished, well developed, 
and capable of great endurance in mental and physical 
exertion. The Japanese, unlike the Bengalese, include 
pulse in their dietary, and seem to be the stronger for 
this meat. They cultivate more than forty diffe- 



198 STRENGTH AND DIET 

rent kinds of peas and beans. They also cultivate, 
besides rice, wheat, barley, rye, and maize. The sweet 
potato or yam, the daikon, turnips, etc., are eaten, and 
many other vegetables for which Western nations have 
no substitutes. 

Professor Knapp, of the Department of Agriculture 
at Washington, recently returned from an official 
investigation of the rice industry in the Philippines, 
China, and Japan, states : " The reason the Japanese 
are so muscular is that they do not polish their rice. 
In American mills the outside coating of the rice 
kernel is rubl)ed off ; first, the outer husk is removed ; 
second, the bran, just within the husk, is removed ; 
third, the solid kernel is then rubbed to remove the 
rough protein surface and give the kernel a gloss. 
This is called polishing, and the material removed is 
called polish, one of the most nutritious substances in 
all cereals. Polishing removes more than three-fourths 
of the flavour and one-fourth of the filjre material. 
In Japan, China, and India polishing is not done, 
except for foreign markets. The Japanese out-footed 
the armies of Russia, Germany, England, France, and 
America in the advance on Pekin. The Japanese 
soldier is fed on rice, a ration of beans and fish. He 
can double-quick for fourteen hours, and repeat it for 
days. The Japanese or Chinese may be shot through 
the body, if no vital part is cut, and scarcely notice 
the wound." These are very important observations, 
and are well corroborated. Common sense is sadly 
wanted here as elsewhere, and even in this simple 
matter of food, it seems, the curse of a foolish fashion 
has its vogue. 

Herr Heckmann, who has also lived in Japan, says 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 190 

that the Japanese eat a great deal of fish, and this 
makes the main part of their diet after rice. In the 
country, rice is served dry, and eggs and tomatoes of 
poor quality do not satisfy the traveller. They culti- 
vate few vegetables, and their fruits are not good. 
They often eat flesh, smoke tobacco, and drink alcohol. 

Accordino; to the Nutrition Investio^ations of the 
United States Department of Agriculture, the Japanese 
eat 50 per cent, of rice, 17 of barley and wheat, 13 '9 
of millet, etc. ; the rest is green vegetables, 1000 to 
1200 grains of cooked rice are eaten daily. 

In a letter in the Morning Post of 15th August, 
Mr. T. Gordon Smith highly praises the Japanese 
treatment of the wounded, and the skill of the surgeons. 
An xAmerican surgeon pays the same tribute, and adds : 
" To my mind, the ration issued to the Japanese soldier 
has much to do with his immunity from suppurative 
conditions following serious injury." The diet is stated 
to ])e fish, rice, and vegetables. About 36 oz. of rice 
per day is the soldier's allowance. "It is undoubtedly 
the diet of the Japanese soldier that is the great secret 
of the success achieved by the army surgeons. The 
soldiers are in superb physical condition, and they 
can far better stand the shock of a bullet wound 
or operation than a man who is fed on unsuitable 
diet." '' 

In the Encyclopcedia Britannica it is stated that 
the Japanese soldier is well set up, hardy, and muscular, 
with great powers of endurance, and a celerity in 
manoeuvrino: which astonishes Occidental observers. 

In an ancient document of Japan, the Samurai, 
the fighting men, were enjoined to have for their 
staple diet unhulled rice. 



200 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The liability to beri-beri only follows the use of 
rice or another vesjetable in a bad condition. If the 
soldier " had recourse to meat diet, he would probably 
lose something of his capacity for prolonged rapid 
movement." 

The Japanese, says Mr. Peery, are the " most vege- 
tarian race on earth." The common food of the people 
is plain rice, boiled, and used without additions ; sweet 
potatoes, occasional fish, tea without milk. Very little 
milk, butter, or other animal product used by Western 
nations is consumed.^* 

Speaking of the Japanese children, Mr. Hales says : 
" How" happy they seem!" ..." The coolies (their 
fathers and mothers) do the work of the land on a 
handful of rice. Yet they seem haj)py, with a sprightly 
happiness that one never meets with amongst our own 
very poor." *"' 

A coal-carrier in Nagasaki Harbour, in an interview 
with Mr. Hancock, gave the following as his ordinary 
fare : — Midday meal, an apple, a tomato, an onion. 
Breakfast, a bowl of rice, with a few little strips of 
dried fish. Supper, broiled fresh fish, lettuce, tomatoes, 
onions, cucumbers, or radishes. 

Another worker at the harbour had at the midday 
meal about three heaped tablespoonfuls of cooked rice ; 
another, two raw tomatoes and a thin rice cake. A 
child had two rice cakes and an apple. These light 
meals are sufficient for the hard work of five hours' 
coal-heavino;. 

In the opinion of the Samurai of old Japan, writes 
Mr. Hancock, the first step to the upbuilding of the 
body lay in the direction of choosing a sound, sensible 
diet. This did not mean a diet in which meats and 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 201 

coLK-limeiits fioured larf-ely. . . . Meat has but little 
vogue among the natives of Japan to-day. 

In 1899 the Emperor appointed a Commission to 
investigate what steps, if any, should be taken to 
improve the Japanese physique. One of the questions 
was whether a partial meat diet would be an advantage. 
*' So iiU' as meat went, the Commission reported that 
the Japanese had always managed to do without it, 
and that their powers of endurance and their athletic 
prowess exceeded that of any of the Caucasian races. 
Japan's diet stands on a foundation of rice." It is 
boiled or steamed. As prepared by the Japanese 
housewife, it is a soft, steaming, palatable food which 
requires no condiments. When it is boiled it is never 
stirred, nor, of course, when it is steamed. In some 
form rice appears at every meal. " When making 
their phenomenal marches, Japanese troops carry 
no food except a small bag of rice. When practicable, 
barley and beans are issued in small quantities." . . . 
Vegetables and fruit form a most important part in 
the diet of the Japanese. Rice comes first of all, 
vegetables second, fish a good third, and fruit fourth. 
They are fond of lettuce, especially at night, as they 
are considered to be an excellent sedative. Nervous 
disorders are seldom met with in Japan. Tomatoes 
and carrots are held in hio-h esteem. Cucumbers are 
boiled. Fruit, when eaten, is taken between meals. 

At a well-to-do family's house, the principal meal 
consisted of a bowl of fragrant tea, fish chowder, 
rice with more fish, lettuce, tomatoes, onions, boiled 
cucumbers, and celery, chopped raw carrot, preserved 
fruit, cakes of rice Hour, and more tea. 

The Japanese tea is weak, of a delicate colour, and 



202 STRENGTH AND DIET 

without milk or sugar. The casein in milk, and the 
tannic acid in tea, with a slio;ht minolino; of other 
components, make together a composition like leather. 
It is well to avoid this. 

]\lilk is seldom found in the Japanese diet. They 
do not keep cows. Tinned butter is sometimes eaten. 
More fish is used in winter. Hard-boiled eggs are 
much eaten in winter. 

The Japanese believe that at all seasons we eat too 
much, give the stomach too much work to do, and 
therefore cannot develop the utmost strength. Neither 
meat nor potatoes are used in winter. The Japanese 
do not heat their houses. 

" Kice with fish, a hard-boiled egg or two, browned 
rice cakes, tea, dried fruits, somewhat varied in three 
meals a day," this is the diet of the Japanese, the 
kind of food that kept the Samurai in the best of 
health, in phenomenal strength, and with muscles that 
defied strains that would be appalling to the average 
Caucasian. If any hearty eater among the white 
races believes such a diet would prove weakening, let 
him try it for a few weeks, and he will discover that 
his streno'th is on the increase. Such stomach troubles 

O 

as indigestion will have disappeared. 

Since all strength must primarily come from the 
stomach, the Japanese teacher of jiu-jitsu (wrestling, 
etc.) soon loses all patience with a pupil who is not 
willino; to follow the diet that will oive the most force 
and best tone to his system. This the Jaj)anese diet 
unquestionably does. 

The Samurai and jiu-jitsu trainers drink large 
quantities of cool, not very cold, water. (Probably 
between, and not at, meals.) 



DIET OF HACKS AND NATIONS 203 

The Japanese, when he finds a slight illness coming 
on, drinks much water and reduces food. The author 
of this book on Japan, when threatened with tonsillitis, 
almost entirely abstained from food, and drank nearly 
a gallon and a half of water, so preventing the develop- 
ment of the illness. 

The Japanese are remarkably free from rheumatism, 
it is practically unknown among the two younger 
generations. They use water very freely both inside 
and outside their bodies. They bathe twice daily. 
Both hot and cold water baths are perpetually in use. 

Both men and women are remarkal:)ly well formed, 
anatomically, according to medical evidence. They 
are very hardy, fond of any amount of fresh air and 
draughts, and have no dread of " night air." 

Insomnia is rarely known. There are cases of 
nervous disease. The Japanese are fond of loose 
clothing, allowing plenty of fresh air to circulate 
round their bodies.**' 

SiAM. — The staple foods of the Siamese are of 
vegetable origin ; peas, beans, sugar-cane, seeds and 
stalks of the lotus, various weeds and flowers, cocoa- 
nut milk, every kind of fruit, chillies, mango-chutney, 
and pepper-water, are articles of the common fare. But 
the people " depend on rice for their very existence," 
•'all other foods are, comparatively speaking, luxuries." 
Rice is washed four or five times, then soaked, then 
put into boiling water for three or four minutes ; the 
water is then poured off". The rice, after some time of 
steaming, is turned out, the grains being then all 
separate, and considerably swollen. 

The Siamese are not energetic ; they are merry, 
witty, gentle, and unselfish. ^^ 



'204 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The Siamese are described by Bishop Pellegoix as 
well formed, on the whole sober, gentle, careless, idle, 
inconstant, fond of sports, witty, and musical. ^^ 

Elsewhere, the Siamese are said to live very largely 
on rice, not the white grain known in England, but 
nearly the whole of the grain without the husk, wnth 
the colouring matter adhering to it, containing valuable 
nitrogenous and mineral matter. This valuable outer 
^jortion is removed, and the wdiite rice exported and 
also now largely used in Siam by the natives instead 
of their more nutritious whole rice. The nutritious 
outer part is thrown to the dogs after the treatment 
in the newly introduced European mills. The Siamese 
also eat fish, chillies, fowls, condiments, rotten eggs, 
maize, bananas, cocoa-nuts, sugar-cane, limes, oranges, 
mangoes, and many other fruits. In the main, they 
are almost vegetarian. They are described as rather 
short, sturdy, with considerable muscular development 
and mental abilities.^" 

Central Asia, Siberia, etc. — The Kirghiz- Kazaks 
live on millet, koumiss, mutton, and horseflesh. They 
are short, strong, and hardy, and go several days 
without food.°^ 

The Tungus live very largely on animal food, foxes, 
reindeer, ermine, squirrels, etc. They are said to be a 
fine people, brave, hardy, intelligent, strong, cheerful, 
and candid. They number about 80,000, and are of 
the Manchu stock.''" 

The Sanioyedes are described as sociable, honest, 
peaceful, and generous ; primitive and superstitious. 
They are large flesh-eaters. They thrust flesh between 
the teeth of their gods at certain intervals. They are 
devoid of European principles of morality.®" 



DIET OF RACES AND XxVTIOXS 205 

The Yahtts aic also very large consumers of 
flesli ; it is said that four men can eat a horse. They 
bear intense cold without discomfort. They are de- 
scribed by one observer as good-tempered, orderly, 
industrious, and hospitable. ^^ 

Professor W. Lawrence, F.R.S., referred to some of 
these tribes in his lectures at the Royal College of 
Surgeons, saying that the idea that animal food renders 
men strong and courageous is fully disproved by the 
inhabitants of Northern Europe and Asia, the Lap- 
landers, Samoyedes, Ostiacs, Tungooses, Burats, and 
Kamschatdales, and by the Tierra del Fuegians, who, 
living almost entirely on tiesh, are the smallest, weakest, 
and least brave people of the globe. 

The Tartars, Mongols, live entirely upon flesh and 
milk. They are nomadic. The men hunt and hawk. 
They eat any kind of animals, and the milk they use is 
the fermented mare's milk, known as " koumiss." This 
account is derived from Marco Polo, wdio visited them 
in the thirteenth century, and is true of the people 
to-day. The Mongolians are robust, and can endure 
great handships. They always prefer riding, however, 
to walking. They can endure great cold well. They 
have much degenerated under Chinese government, and 
are addicted to cattle-stealing and excessive drinking. 
They were long notorious for extreme and barbarous 
atrocities in their conquests. They have been recently 
descril)ed as sluggish, enduring, thrifty, of low morality, 
with little reasoning capacity or artistic sense.'*" 

The people of the Chin Hills are a fine race, strong, 
and able to carry heavy loads. Flesh-eating and ex- 
cessive drinking are mostly haliitual.^" 

The Anamitcs are dirty, thievish, deceitful, and 



'20G STRENGTH AND DIET 

revengeful, according to one traveller, but Lord Curzon 
describes them as having many good qualities ; they 
are, he says, hospitable, lively, good-tempered. They 
make excellent soldiers, and arc somewhat artistic. 
Their favourite food is rotten fish and dogs ; they eat 
various kinds of flesh, and rice, vegeta])les, and eggs.^^ 

The Sakais, or men of the woods, the aborigines of 
the ]\lalay Peninsula, live on fruits and vegetables as a 
rule, but will eat any animal food they can get, such as 
snakes and lizards, when their stock of vegetal)les is 
exhausted. 

Roasted tapioca and sugar-cane are a common diet 
for l)reakfast. The men who are out during the day 
return in the evening, go to sleep about nine, wake at 
midnight, and eat their second meal, and then sleep 
again till dawn. 

The Semangs, another aboriginal tribe, live by 
hunting, and subsist on animal food. They are sturdily 
built, but dwarfish in stature.^* 

As a race, says a well-known traveller, the Yakutes 
are distinctly plain in appearance, and often repulsive. 
The type is i\longolian. The men arc very clever at 
trading ; of medium height ; the women ungainly little 
creatures. The Yakute peasant is too stupid to be 
treacherous — a miserable mortal. With the chief of 
police at Yakutsk the breakfast was black bread, 
smoked fish, and cheese. The midday meal was heavier, 
with wines, beer, and vodka. At 3 p.m. there was a 
dinner of several courses; at 8 p.m., tea with sweets and 
cake ; at midnight, salt fish, ham, caviar, and raw 
cucumber. Among the well-to-do class physical strength 
is soon impaired by the idle life, moral laxity, stimu- 
lants, and cigarettes.'''' 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 207 

The preparations for a feast among the Orochons 
are described by ]\Ir. Hawes. A woman was scraping 
salmon skins, while another was pounding in a trough 
rice, fish, whortle berries, and seal oil. Dried fish is 
bread and meat to these tribes durino- the lono; winter. 

The Qilyats live mainly on fish and the flesh of 
snared beasts. They obtain tobacco, brick-tea, etc., by 
barter. The death-rate among young children is very 
hiuh. Much was heard of the degeneration of the 
Gilyats lately in physique and numbers. " The decline 
of the race must be attributed to contact with the 
white man." " Lung and throat diseases and scurvy 
accounted for most of the deaths among the older 
people." " Coughs, colds, and pulmonary complaints 
are very prevalent." ^'^ 

Tibet. — Mr. F. Grenard describes the food and 
physical character of the Tibetans as follows : ''" — 
The staple or basis is not " tsamba " or barleycorns, 
but innumerable cups of tea beaten up with butter, 
and salted, and taken with dry morcellated cheese. 
They add a very respectable quantity of flesh, 
usually yak's. Wheatmeal and rice and vegetables are 
eaten. The people are large eaters, and large drinkers 
of beer and brandy. The overcrowding and dirt are 
horrible. Illness is extremely prevalent, including 
cancerous ulcers. Infectious diseases of every kind 
abound. The men are aljove medium height; with 
hard muscles, and are active and enduring, but not 
equal to Europeans ; they are morally weak, obse(]uious, 
gay, and licentious. 

Mr. Kawaguchi, who lived some time among the 
Tibetans, observed that the city people were great 
Hesh-eaters, consuming yak, mutton, goat flesh, and 



208 STRENGTH AND DIET 

beef. Rich aiul poor, however, subsisted chiefly on 
warm l)aked wheat flour and tea, rulibed in with butter 
and salt. They were fond of home-ln-ewed beer.''* 

India. — Rice is, and has been for ages, the common 
food of an immense area of the continent. The oldest 
civilisation was in Asia, and the inhabitants of great 
tracts of the East have remained the same race for 
thousands of years. The Institutes of Manu, one 
of the oldest writings in the world, mention rice as 
the principal food of India. 

The people of Bengal and the low country now live 
mainly on w^hole rice and ghee (boiled butter), and on 
dahl, a kind of lentil, with ghee.^^ Millet at least 
equals rice as a staple food in India. Dahl is not so 
much used l)y the poorest class. Many millions have 
only two meals a day, each of which is deficient in 
quantity, and consequently their condition remains low 
and their strength feeble; £1 a year, or about a half- 
penny to a penny a day, is the average income of the 
small cultivator. The salt tax and property tax bear 
extremely hardly on these men, from whom the greater 
part of the wealth of India is derived. 

In the North-West Provinces, unleavened bread 
made of wheat is the staple, and produces a hardier 
population. The weakness of the rice- eating Hindoo is 
the consequence of extreme poverty, and of the preva- 
lent malaria. The Chinese, with nearly the same but 
more abundant fare, are about the strongest and most 
able workmen in the world. 

In the Deccan, jowar and bagra millets are the 
staple ; in the southern parts of the Deccan, a poor 
grain called " ragi." Pulse, vegetables, roots, and fruit 
are also eaten. Salt is used as a condiment. ^*^° 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 209 

The messengers from ^ladras to Bombay or Calcutta 
were remarkable for activity and endurance. They ran 
at the rate of sixty-two miles a day for ten or fourteen 
hundred miles. ^^'' They were tall and athletic. Their 
food was l)oiled rice. 

Mr. Buckingham states that the people of the 
Himalayas, living on rice, were much stronger than 
the British sailors. 

The Hindoos of North- West India can walk fifty or 
sixty miles a day with no other food than whole-meal 
cakes and a little butter. 

The Sikhs, who lived almost entirely on vegetable 
food, were among the finest types of humanity. '°'" 

Among the higher classes of Hindoos, who live on 
abundance of grain and vegetable food and sweetmeats, 
etc., are many of great vigour and ability, according to 
Graham ; but it must be observed that a luxurious life 
leaves very obvious effects upon the rich families of 
India. 

Sir Colin Campbell, Commander-in-Chief of the 

Indian Army in 1857, in instructions issued to the 

troops, laid down that " a large amount of animal food, 

instead of giving strength, heats the blood, renders the 

system feverish, and consequently weakens the whole 

body. The Kajputs of Rajputana, and the Sikhs of 

the Punjaub, are physically as strong as Europeans, 

and they are capable of enduring more fatigue, and 

withstandino; better the vicissitudes of the climate of 

India. This is due partly to race, but chiefly to the 

nature of their food, of which the staple is wheaten 

flour, made into chapatis. They eat but twice a day, 

and although they partake of animal food, they do so 

in a very much less proportion than is the habit of 
14 



LlO STRENGTH AND DIET 

Europeans." " The large quantity of pork indulged in 
by soldiers is most injurious." " Vegetables are essential 
to the preservation of health." 

Sir Erskine Perry wrote :^°^ "The Hindus are a 
handsome race of mankind. The women may vie with 
those of any country in the world for symmetry. A 
Brahman girl puts on a clean robe every day, and 
the river is entered with everything on," so that the 
dress as well as the body receives ablution. The 
figures cominoj from the well reminded Sir Erskine of 
the finest draped figure of antiquity, the Pallas di 
Velletri. 

Sir Mountstuart Elphinstone, describing the 
character of the people, said the villagers are every- 
where an inoffensive, amiable people, affectionate to 
their families, kind to their neighbours, and towards 
all but the Government honest and sincere. 

Accounts of the last terrible fomine in India give 
a very interesting insight into the self-denying habits 
and patient, generous character of many of the Indian 
people. ^°^ 

The general experience, said Dr. Cornish, of the 
superintendents of the relief nursery, was that mothers, 
aunts, grandmothers, or neighbours will bring children 
to be fed, and, though in want themselves, never 
express by word or sign a desire to share the help 
they know is only meant for young children. Big- 
boys will bring little boys, and, although lank and 
hungry, and casting longing eyes on the food, are only 
intent on seeing their charges get the allotted ration. 

Lord Northbrouk put the amount to feed the 
population at 1 lb. per head for man, woman, and 
child ; Sir Richard Temple at 1^ lb. of grain. This 



II 



DIET OF ILVCES AND NATIONS 211 

was after due delibenitioii. The lowest for the iioii- 
hibouriiig jail population in Bengal was 2 lb. The 
ordinary diet of a, labouring Bengal niau is 2 lb., 
besides about half a pound of fish or pulse or condi- 
ment. The amount for Bengalese sailors on board 
.ship is always 2 lb. or more. Nearly all the Govern- 
ment relief was in rice, which for ec^ual weights is 
less strengthening than wheat. The Duke of Argyll 
supported the larger estimate. 

The medical officers maintaiiied that 1|- lb. of raw 
rice per diem is no more than is absolutely sufficient 
for an adult, whether old and infirm or no. A less 
amount might sustain life, but would not save the 
recipient from hunger. 

Sir R. Temple sanctioned the experiment of keeping 
the people at relief works on 1 lb. a day plus lialf an 
anna. 

Sir R. Christison, the eminent Edinburgh doctor, was 
of opinion that an adult requires not less than 35 oz. 
of dry food a day ; three carboniferous to one nitro- 
genous part. 

In 1863 a searching inquiry was instituted by the 
British Association as to the amount of food necessary 
to a man in full work in India. The observers agreed 
that the minimum grain allowance is not less than 
24 oz. per man. The natives themselves agree in 
this ; they estimate the amount disposed of by a 
native of full appetite at something between 24 and 
48 n/. 

in Beliary and Cueldapah the amount of dry cereal 
for a labourer was 33 and 48 oz. respectively. 

Any dietary containing less than 200 grs. of nitrogen 
will not permit of severe labour or task work. 



212 STUEXGTH AND DIET 

The jail diets provide 200 to 300 grs., and some- 
times these have to be supplemented by extra meat 
or vegetal)les to prevent the men from falling into a 
low condition. 

One pound of grain, with the half-anna for extras, 
is {)tsujficicnt to procure an adequate sustenance. 

" It is the slow and gradual form of starvation by 
defective nutrition in the daily food that is the most 
difficult to deal with by after remedies. It is easier 
to break down the vital powers than to build up or 
restore." ^°' 

Sir R. Temple said : According to theory, a native 
requires 300 grs. of nitrogen in ordinary work, and 
500 to 600 when marching or undergoing severe 
labour. But as a matter of fact he is allowed only 
178 grs., and the sepoy does well in hard work on 
this. . . . The British soldier receives 242 grs. in 
full work. (These figures are not trustworthy as 
complete data.) 

Dr. Cornish gave a very full answer to this conten- 
tion, and stated that the mortality of native troops is 
much higher than the rate at their own homes. (There 
may be various reasons for this.) The allowance of 
soldiers, both British and native, enables them to make 
up their dietary by extras. 

The effect of improving the standards of diet in the 
Madras jails has been to lower the annual death-rate 
from 107 to 22 in the eight years during which the 
new dietary has been in force. 

Half- rations as a punishment produced a great deal 
of illness — ulcers, Ijowel complaints, droj^sy, etc. 

The scale of diet for prisoners with labour in 
Bombay prisons was as follows : — 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 213 

24 oz. daily of own grain, 
5 of meat on Wednesdays and Saturdays. 

5 dliall five times weekly. 
1 linseed oil. 

8 veo-etables. 

(5 dr. salt. 

4 curry stutl'. 

The reduced dietary gave — 

20 oz. grain. 
4 meat. 
4 <lbal]. 
\ linseed oil. 
G veo-etables. 

6 dr. salt. 

4 curry stuff. 

The result of the reduced dietary was disastrous. 

Mr. Vaughan Nash, recently commissioner of the 
Manchester Guardian in India durino; the famine, 
wrote : ^*^'' " It seemed to me to be the spirit of a noble 
people, who had won refinement and discipline when 
our forefathers were savages — a people we may well 
be glad to succour and proud to rule, looking out at 
the wreck of all things. . . . The Indian people are 
not paupers in spirit. ... 1 cannot imagine that any 
people could work harder to preserve their independ- 
ence, by sticking to their villages and undergoing any 
amount of privation, than the Indian people." 

Dr. John Pollen, LL.D., J.P. ; "The love and 
devotion of the Indian mother are simply admirable." 

Bishop Heber says : " The Hindoos are brave, 
courteous, intelligent, most eager for knowledge and 



214 STRENGTH AND DIET 

improvement, sol)ei', iudustiious, dutiful to parents, 
affectionate to their cliildren, uniformly gentle and 
patient, and more easily affected by attention to their 
wants and feelings than any people I ever met with," 

Malaya. — Rice, fruit, and vegetables are the staple 
food, and fish is often added to this diet. Rice and 
fish, with chillies, is a common meal.^°" 

Java. — " The staple diet is rice and dried fish, 
with vegetables and fruits," The rice is steamed, not 
boiled. The upper classes have a variety of light 
dishes — eggs, vegetables, fruit, rice, macaroni, fish, and 
flesh.^°^ 

Turkey and neiohbouring Countries in Asia — 
Armenia. — The Ofiicial Report states that the frugality 
of the Armenians is proverbial. Bread, olives, 
cheese, onions, and salad are the staple ; alcoholic drink 
is taken only on feast days. [The strength of the 
Armenian porters is enormous. Before the massacre, 
there were thousands of Armenian porters at Con- 
stantinople ; these were remarkable for temperance 
and strength.] "Strong drink is a curse" to immi- 
grants, and does immense harm to the constitutions of 
all who give way to it. Delirium tremens or fatal liver 
disease is the usual result. 

Damascus. — The artisans live on bread, fruit, vege- 
tables, oil, and rice ; the labourers, both Christian and 
Moslem, are strictly vegetarian. Many of the labourers 
are idle and listless. The peasant's fare is barley or 
pea bread, fruit, and vegetables. 

Persia. — Bread, rice, cheese, vegetables, such as 
melons, cucumbers, etc., are the common fare. A little 
tea is used. The workinor classes have nothing like 
the sufferincr of the working classes in England. At 

O O o 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 215 

Busliire, lumps of dates, bread, salt fish, and rice, and 
at Bassadore fish and dates, form the staple ; vegetables 
are only obtained in tlie rainy season. At Bagdad, 
bread, fruits, dates, and, in the summer, water-melons. 
At Tabreez, bread, fruit, cheese. The poorer classes do 
not use wine or intoxicants. The author of Living 
Races of Mankind gives " rice in various forms, fruit, 
sweetmeats, and sherljct " as among the principal 
victuals of the Persians. The dates on which the Arabs 
live are like good-sized plums. And Mr. Smith says 
that the Persians who live chiefly on rice, etc., and a 
little flesh occasionally, are strong and of a good con- 
stitution. 

Tripoli. — Fruit, roasted barley meal, bread and oil. 
Green fruits in summer, dried dates, and buttermilk 
in winter. Meat and eggs, and even bread and oil, 
are rather luxuries, which they do not very often 
enjoy. 

Anatolia {Xorthern and Central). — Trebizond, 
Sivas, Angorah, Kastamouni : maize bread is the staple 
food on the coast. Corn, barley, millet, rice, and 
lentils are grown, also many vegetables. Fish is eaten 
on the coast. 

In Central Anatolia the workman's food consists of 
brown or maize bread, scraps of meat, or meal and 
grease, with a few sprats, onions, and unripe fruit. 
The porters, who are very numerous, do heavy work, 
and their hours are lono-. 

The peasant's food is mostly vegetable ; maize, rye, 
and barley bread form nine-tenths of his diet ; milk, 
curds, cheese, and eggs are occasionally added ; dried 
meat and fish are rare luxuries. Water is the only 
drink. 



216 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Kurdistan. — Bruised wheat boiled into a pilaf with 
butter, milk, sour milk, and bread. Occasionally eggs, 
rarely flesh. Two meals a day. Two pounds of bread 
a day, very bad in quality. Nearly all families have 
a cow or sheep, which lives under the same roof. 

In the country the poor peasantry " never touch 
meat but when one of their animals dies from accident, 
old age, or sickness." The comparatively well-to-do 
people use jerked or salted meat during winter. Milk 
foods are in very general use, and boorghul pilaf made 
with butter. 

Scutari. — Maize bread, occasional flesh, vegetables, 
melons, grapes, figs, chestnuts, walnuts. 

Smyrna. — Coarse bread, wheat, barley, maize, 
beans, onions, vegetables, olives, milk, eggs, some- 
times rice, fruit, and coffee. Flesh very rarely. 

Egypt — Alexandria. — "Entire abstinence from 
spirits " is recommended to foreigners. The artisans 
have much the same diet as the English, but with less 
animal food. In the country the peasants live gener- 
ally upon vegetables, oil, and fruit, with coarse cheese 
and very bad bread. 

Syria — Mount Lebanon. — In a speech at Exeter 
Hall on May 16, 1838, Assaad Yakoub Khan, a native 
Syrian, said the people of Mount Lebanon were very 
strong, tall, and active. They lived almost entirely 
on dates and water. There were many among them 
of a hundred to a hundred and ten years old. Mr. 
Smith cites Burckhardt's statement concerning the 
Bedouins of Syria, that their usual fare is flour mixed 
with camel's milk. 

In a book on The Nearer East, recently pub- 
lished, ^^^ I find the following interesting particulars : — 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 217 

" Where tlie rainfall is abundant, 1)ut the climate, 
owing to higli relief or other causes, is temperate, 
we find a wheat-growing and wheat-eating people." 
" Barley is grown in every part of the region where 
corn may sprout at all, but chiefly for the feeding of 
the more valuable live stock ; it forms a staple of 
human life onlv in the south of Greece, in the smaller 
.Egean Isles, with Crete, and, allied with millet, in 
Armenia, in the middle valley of the Tigris, in Persia, 
and in parts of Western Arabia. . . . The intermediate 
grain of maize . . . prevails over wheat in the south 
of the region, the Nile valley, and the central and 
south-eastern Arabian oases. . . . It is only in Lower 
Mesopotamia that rice is to the population what it is 
farther east, althouoh all over our reoion it holds a far 
more important place than in the West. 

[In the region] milk is "hardly ever taken in its 
natural state, but boiled, curdled, churned, or other- 
wise treated." Next in importance comes "the fruit 
of the date palm, usually cooked." The third product 
is olive oil, the fourth wine, and the last fish. " Flesh 
of animals is throughout the region a luxury." 

" Milk and dates together are responsible for human 
life over an immense area not included in our dis- 
tribution of grains, namely, the Syrian and Arabian 
deserts. The milk is mainly that of home-bred camels. 
The dates are obtained from the oases and the fringe 
lands. ^lilk, without dates, is a staple in a large 
part of all the higher lands of the region, in North and 
East Albania, Eastern Macedonia and Rumelia, on the 
Anatolian plateau, in Armenia, Kurdistan, and the 
Persian border ranges. Dates, without milk, are 
added Ijy the Mesopotamian Arabs to their rice, and, 



218 STRENGTH AND DIET 

in less degree, l>y the poorer Egyptian fellabin to 
their durra." 

" The Albanian and the Greek populations have (as 
a whole) the same broad characteristics. They are 
distinguished by physical and mental alertness and 
agility. They appear, as do very hardily trained 
athletes, fine-drawn in body and mind, ready for 
instant action or thought, but not capable of sustaining 
thought or action strenuously or for long." Their 
food is small in quantity, but quickly assimilated. 
" Olive oil has no superior in the rapid capacity both 
to satisfy and nourish." This oil and milk and bread 
and light wine constitute their diet. Their failure to 
comprehend the European's demand for full and varied 
meals is often expressed and profound. 

On the eastern side of the Spine, where the heating 
grain of maize replaces wheat, and where meat, vege- 
tables, soups, and butter replace olive oil, the people 
are heavy and slow, but enduring long both with body 
and mind. The Buloar-Slav race rivals the Turk in 
its excellence as military material. At a college at 
Constantinople the strongest intellect among various 
races is the Bulgarian. The plateau-folk of Asia Minor, 
eating wheat and adding only milk as a staple, have 
endurance and depth, slowness and stupidity. The 
Anatolians supply excellent infantry, steadfast and 
pure-living. Where the quality of the food seriously 
deteriorates, the j)eople are found crass and unstable. 
The Armenians of the eastern plateau are a worthy 
peasantry, intelligent and enterprising when trained. 
Speaking generally, the author says that " where all 
nutritious food, and especially grain, is scarce and dear 
through bad government, lack of transport, and a 



DIET OF KACES AND NATIONS 219 

short-sighted intelligence, wliieli, for momentary gain, 
replaces useful cultures over large tracts by luxurious 
products, it may be said truly of the population that 
it is physically and mentally unstable and unsound." 
" There is no more enterprising, no keener intellect 
in the Nearer East than the Syrian of the Fringe. 
Here the food is wheat, oil, milk, and wine." The 
Bedouin is the athlete over-trained, living on dates 
meagrely. He is restless, alert, incapable of sustained 
thought or action. The rice and date eating Arabs of 
the ]\Iesopotamian delta are weak and degraded, 1)ut 
more stable than those who live without o-rain in the 
desert. [In Egypt the smaller freeholder is dying out, 
and nine-tenths of the fellah in are serfs of the soil.] 

In Volneys Travels it is stated that the Bedouins 
are an exceedingly alert race, and that they live most 
frugally. Six or seven dates, soaked in melted butter,. 
serve a man frequently for a whole day ; sometimes a 
little coarse flour or rice is added. Lempriere, in his 
Toicr to Morocco, mentions that couriers in Barl)ary 
went extraordinary distances with only bread, figs, and 
some water. 

The diet of the Anatolian villagers is almost equally 
plain, and, according to the Official Report, they are 
" hardy, industrious, and perfectly sober men." 

HI. Australasia and Neighboukixg Parts. 

The natives of the Australian Continent are fyenerallv 
stated to have been of a very low type, and their means of 
subsistence were certainly precarious, but the testimony 
of the distinguished officer quoted below disagrees with 
the common o})inion of their intelligence. Probably 



•220 STRENGTH AND DIET 

the natives of the north were favourably affected by 
former intercourse with neio^hbourine^ islands. Their 
food was very various, but principally vegetable. 

Captain, afterwards Sir Henry, Kcppel described ^^'^ 
the native Australian in the first half of last century. 
At Port Essington, North Australia, he wrote : " The 
natives are well formed ; their limbs are straight and 
sufficiently muscular ; their bodies erect ; their heads 
well shaped ; the features generally good ; teeth 
regular, white, and sound. They are capable of 
undergoing considerable fatigue and privation in their 
wanderings, marching for days together long distances. 
" The women are their beasts of burden." " The aged, 
deformed, and sick are carried on the backs of good 
Samaritans." " A greater mistake [than putting the 
Australian natives very low in the scale] has never 
been made." The native of North Australia is intelli- 
gent and apt. Many of the natives speak two or three 
dialects, and some speak English and Malay fluently. 
They are great cheats, thieves, and liars. They are 
tolerably long lived. Infanticide is common. Children 
are A^ery kindly treated, they are never beaten or 
punished, how naughty soever they may be. Children 
are often suckled till three years old. Idiots, etc., are 
never seen ; perhaps they are killed. 

The natives devour all kinds of animals and a oreat 
variety of roots and fruits, also rice, wild honey, etc. 
Geese, dugongs, large lizards, and insects are eaten. 

At the other end, that very modern observer. Max 
O'Rell, describes the European Australians as having 
tea and bread and butter at 7 a.m. ; meat, eggs, and 
bacon, etc., at 8.30; light lunch of tea, etc., at 11 ; 
dinner with tea at 1 or 1.30 ; tea at 3 ; meat and tea, 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 221 

etc., from G to 7. Probably this account is slightly, 
but only slightly, exaggerated. 

Private accounts, magazine articles, and official 
statistics show that very large quantities of animal flesh 
and of tea are consumed by the Australian colonists. 
Insanity is terribly frecjuent in the lonely interior. 

Flesh, it is stated, is eaten by old and young- 
alike at every meal by colonists. Practically, vege- 
tarianism is non-existent.^^^ 

New Zealand. — The Maoris were mixed eaters ; 
they hunted and fished, and ate the flesh of pigs, birds, 
and other animals ; their vegetables were the sweet 
potato, the taro, the gourd, and various berries and 
roots. Cannibalism was practised in former times. 

They were strong, lazy, warlike, intelligent, and, on 
the whole, superior to most of the Polynesians from 
whom they were derived. They are described as tall, 
powerful, and well made ; nevertheless, they fell victims 
to consumption and to European vices, and are only 
now Ijeginning to arrest the process of extinction under 
British restrictions and care."^ 

With civilisation, says the author of Australasia, 
the old elasticity of spirit and enjoyment of life in the 
Maoris seems to have left them. " Our habits are 
not suited to them ; our diseases and vices decimate 
them," " As in so many other cases, we seem to 
civilise and Christianise, only to destroy." "^ 

Savage Island is about nine miles long, peopled by 
a race of mixed Samoan and Melanesian blood, converted 
to Christianity ; intelligent, wdld, and interesting. 
They are said to Ijc increasing at the rate of 2|- per 
cent, annually. Their numbers were, in 1864, 5000. It 
appears that these people may be civilised without 



'222 STRENGTH AND DIET 

being externiiiiated, if protected from tlie vices and 
■diseases commonly brought by Europeans."'* 

The Samoans are said by Captain Erskine to carry 
their habits of cleanliness and decency to a higher 
point than the most fastidious of civilised nations, and 
to observe a dignity and forbearance at their meetings 
which Europeans never equal ; even in the heat of 
war they have shown themselves amenable to the in- 
fluences of reason and religion. 

R. L. Stevenson, who wrote of the Polynesians 
as " God's best, at least God's sweetest works," had 
a great admiration and love for the people of Samoa, 
who made him forget for a time the " dingy, ungentle- 
manly business " we call civilisation. " We live here 
in a beautiful land, amid a beautiful and interesting 
people." The men, says Stevenson, are " purpose- 
like, well set up, tall, lean, and dignified." 

The natives of New Caledonia are a well-made 
race, described by Cook as courteous and friendly ; but 
their character has become degraded by contact with 
Europeans. They were cannibals. They were superior 
to every other race of the Pacific in their agriculture — 
cultivating yams, bananas, and sugar-canes."^ 

The people of the Solomon Islands were cannibals ; 
their ordinary food, besides animal fiesh, was bread- 
fruit, yams, taro, and cocoa-nut. 

In Eastern New Gidnea sweet potatoes, yams, 
bananas, and suoar-canes are orow^n. In the Dutch 
portion, sago and fish are the chief articles of diet. As 
in so many other parts of the world where vegetable 
food is the staple of savage people, birds, reptiles, 
insects, and fish, Ijesides the fiesh of the pig, are 
frequently eaten with relish."" 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 223 

IV. Africa. 

Algeria. — Barley bread and kooskoosou, made with 
barley and a little milk and sugar, are the chief foods 
of Algeria. Many vegetables and fruits are also eaten, 
such as carrots, turnips, onions, cucumbers, beans, 
tomatoes, cabbages, pumpkins, maize, almonds, apricots, 
peaches, quinces, figs, grapes, pomegranates, oranges, 
dates ; also acorns and dates by the very poor. Millet 
is much used. The Touaregs and other tribes live on 
dates, camel's milk, dried apricots, and salted camel's 
Hesh. The men, whose profession is ostrich-hunting, 
go for days with nothing to eat or drink, except a few 
dates and tepid water, and the horses are also fed on 
dates. The \vonderful white camels, which go prodigious 
distances, are also fed almost entirely on dates. Two 
meals a day is the rule in Algeria. 

The Beni M'zab, of Numidian descent, are cleaner 
and healthier than most of the tribes. 

Their special form of Islamism forbids the use of 
tea, coffee, tobacco, snuff, or stimulants of any kind, so 
the usual drink among them is either sour milk or 
water. The Moors drink a (rood deal of coffee. 

In the Jewish quarter of the cities it is usual to 
begin meals with fruit of all kinds, then follow bread, 
eggs, melted butter, vegetables, and kooskoosou. 

Acorns are largely eaten by the poorest Algerians ; 
they are boiled or roasted and eaten with dates, or 
made into bread. They are carefully peeled. 

A tribe of Arabs, called Gourbis, amongst the Atlas 
Mountains, subsist partly on mutton."^ 

Morocco. — The Official Reports state that the 
artisan's diet consists of two penny loaves and a bowl of 



224 STRENGTH AND DIET 

millet. Some eat fish or meal occasionally. Kooskoosou 
is the favourite national dish, and is made from the 
finest parts of wheat, barley, or millet, with much 
butter or milk. 

The natives use neither wine nor spirits. Spirits 
are pernicious to strangers. 

The KahyJes are the most industrious inhabitants 
of the Barhary States (Africa). . . . They preserve 
the grain, legumes, and other fruits, which are the pro- 
duce of their husbandry, in conical excavations in the 
ground. 

The Tuarich consist of various tribes spread through 
the greater part of the Sahara. The various tribes are 
ver}^ different in their characters, but they are all fine 
men, tall, straight, and handsome. . . . They are most 
abstemious, their food consisting principally of coarse 
brown bread, dates, olives, and water, (Richardson, 
Barth, Overweg, etc.) 

The Moors are a handsome race, having much more 
resemblance to Europeans and Western Asiatics than 
to Arabs or to Berbers. They are an intellectual 
people, but cruel and revengeful, and they exhibit few 
traces of the delicacy of feeling and nobility of mind 
which distinguished their ancestors in Spain. They 
are temperate in their diet, except the richer classes. ^^' 

The people of Jenna, in Central Africa, says 
Landers, ^^* have abundance of bullocks, goats, sheep, 
and poultry ; but they prefer vegetable food to animal. 
Their diet consists chiefly of pre2)arations of yam and 
Indian corn ; " notwithstanding which, a stronger or 
more athletic race of people is nowhere to be met with. 
It requires the united strength of three men to lift a 
calabash of oroods to the shoulders of one, , , , Some 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 225 

of the women bore on their heads h^ads that woidd tire 
a mule." 

Dr. CopeLand, alluding to the experience of an 
Englishman who had lived in intertropical Africa for 
thirty or forty years, and kept in good health, gave 
the following explanation. In answer to inquiries, 
this settler informed him that finding his health suffer 
soon after removal to that pestilential climate, he 
changed his mode of life, and adopted that of the 
natives, living thenceforth on rice, maize, and water ; 
from that time onwards he had no serious illness. 

The Rev. Mr. Crocker's experience was similar ; he 
adopted the native diet of rice, cassada, sweet potatoes, 
etc. Mr. M'Elvoy, in Liberia, lived on rice, vegetables, 
and fruit, and kept the best of health, gaining 15 lb. 
in weight. 

The Arabs of a large extent of North Africa live 
chiefly on dates and milk. Their agility, endurance, 
and health are extraordinary. According to Richard- 
sou, who travelled in the Sahara, in some parts not 
only the people, but horses, dogs, asses, camels, sheep, 
and fowls, live on dates. The date-palm is found in 
every country from the Tigris to the Atlantic. 

In Upper Egypt, according to Hamilton, the food 
of the people was dhourra. The richer classes added 
beef, goose, and vegetables. 

The Hadendoa drivers of Suakim, and the people 
of the neighbourhood, had a similar diet. They were 
very strong and well built. 

The Abyssinians eat raw flesh frequently, the 

people of Dahomey flesh, vegetables, beans, yams, and 

cassada. 

The lithe, well-ljuilt Arabs of xA.lgiers had maize, 
15 



226 STRENGTH AND DIET 

rice, and fruit ; the Nubian Arabs, flesh and milk ; the 
East Africans, fish, flesh, grain, vegetables, milk, butter, 
honey, bananas, and dates ; the Kaflirs, millet and sour 
milk, on which diet they greatly thrive, being strong 
and vigorous ; in some cases they display the perfect 
frame of a Greek athlete. The Hottentots, a very 
inferior tribe, eat flesh, entrails, fruits, and roots. 

The Oflicial Handbook to Natal states that the 
natives there are a splendid, stalwart race, and combine 
quaintness and simplicity with acuteness and shrewd- 
ness. Their food has been chiefly mealies. 

The Africans of the interior generally live on plant 
products, with occasional flesh. A recent writer on 
South Africa describes the indigenous population as 
possessed of " marked vitality and strength " ; they do 
not die out in present conditions through contact with 
civilisation. ^^'^ The Zulus and Basiitos are certainly 
robust, and capable of much development. 

V. America. 

The United States (North). — A great deal of 
flesh meat is eaten in the United States by all 
classes. Also corn-pies, pastry, and cakes in great 
variety, hot, and large c[uantities of water, sipped 
ice-cold. Also much fruit, such as bananas, especially 
at breakfast. The less opulent classes subsist chiefly 
on pork and beans or bacon and hominy ; these may 
be said to form the national diet, with bread and 
other meats. In Chicaojo, accordiusj to Mrs. Besant, 
myriads of creatures are slaughtered every week, and 
no one who is even slightly sensitive can go within 
miles of the town without being conscious of a 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 227 

profound sense of depression, a sense of shrinking 
from pollution, a sense of liorror.^"° 

In Europe, says Mr. Mark Twain,'-' the traveller 
" could get the shadow, the sham, the base counterfeit 
of that meal (breakfast), but that would do him no 
good. 

" Tlie average American's simplest and commonest 
form of breakfast consists of coffee and beefsteak." . . . 
" A mighty porter-house steak an inch and a half 
thick, . . . enriched with melting bits of butter, . . . 
archipelagoed with mushrooms, . . . tender yellowish 
fat gracing an outlying district of this ample county 
of beefsteak." . . . "Home-made coffee with cream 
afroth on top, some real butter, . . . smoking hot 
biscuits, a plate of hot buckwheat cakes, with trans- 
parent syrup." 

Mark Twain then gives a bill of fare of what he 
calls a nourishing (American) meal, with fifty-nine 
items, including oysters, coffee, chicken, steak, potatoes, 
biscuits, various hot cakes, bacon, crabs, mussels, 
various fish, roast beef and turkey, various fowls, 
beans, hominy, green corn, apple dumplings, iced 
milk, ice-water, peach-pie, pumpkin-pie. 

No wonder that so many are plagued with indiges- 
tion and nervousness. But Americans are now showing 
us the way to great improvement in diet. 

Another humorist writes as follows : — The Americans 
drink very hot coffee and ice-cold water alternately at 
breakfast. Stewed prunes, pound cake, hashed boiled 
Ijeef, pancakes, crullers, ice-water, coffee with prunes, 
a chop, a little oatmeal in doses, etc. For lunch, pie, 
sand\^4ches, hash, crullers, viands, etc. And for supper, 
pie, etc., and many other dishes.^"'^ 



228 STUEXGTH AND DIET 

British Columbia. — The diet of the British is, on 
the whole, like that of our race elsewhere. Poultry 
and ecrs^s are scarce. The winter diet is restricted 
chiefly to salt pork, dried fish, and game, and occasional 
beans and potatoes. Large quantities of fruit are 
eaten in some parts. All over the country " tea " is the 
great meal of the day ; beef, mutton, pork, fish, 
" damper " bread, butter, cheese, fruit-pies, cake, sugar, 
and quarts of tea. The British Columbians are a fine 
strong people, but can hardly remain so long if this 
account be correct. 

The Cree Indians live on game, fruits, and berries. 
They sometimes eat 6 to 10 11). of flesh in a day. 
They are hardy and enduring, ])ut suffer terribly from 
scrofula, etc., the result of alternate feasts and fasts; 
they are graduall}^ dying out. Rheumatism is very 
prevalent, which they cure or relieve by a hot-air or 
steam bath. 

The nine thousand Chinese live on rice, dried fish, 
tea, and cheap whisky. They are hard workers. ^^^ 

Mr. Fountain describes the condition of the 
aborioines of North America. " All the red men are 

o 

highly intelligent." ..." Among the Indians are a 
great number of half-breeds. These are apt to be 
turbulent, but they are often splendid fellows, brave 
and full of energy." "The half-breed girls make 
excellent wives. They almost always marry whites." 
Half-breeds are vigorous, have strong sight, and do 
not suffer from organic disease, except through vice, 
such as drinking excessively. 

South of parallel 48 degrees, the red men are 
exceedingly fine, of an average height of 6 ft. ; north 
of 48 degrees they are 5 ft. 6 in. to 5 ft. 8 in. owing 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 229 

to iuferior nutrition. They are of great intelligence 
and enormous physical power ; they have a marvellous 
capacity of going without food, but when they feast, 
they eat enormous meals. Many of the red men live 
to over a hundred years. 

The udiites are often as bloodthirsty as the reds, 
and practise horrible cruelties and deceptions towards 
them.^--* 

The diet of the red men, in their various tribes, 
is fully given in the summary towards the end of this 
chapter. 

The Black Populatio7i of the United States. — The 
principal occupation of the negroes of the Southern 
States is ferming;. The main diet of these field hands, 
nine months out of twelve, is corn bread, bacon, and 
molasses. In spring and summer, vegetables, such as 
sweetpeas, string beans, corn beans, and butter beans, 
cabbage, green corn, mustard, kale, white potatoes, and 
squash are eaten. All vegetables are cooked with the 
fat of the pig. Many people live on corn bread, bacon, 
and molasses throughout the year, having no gardens. 
Rice, cow-peas, and fat are eaten in considerable 
c[uantities in autumn, and form a favourite dish. The 
working day is twelve to fourteen hours. " Chills and 
fevers are very prevalent. It is becoming more 
evident each year that the enormous death-rate among 
the coloured people in the Southern States is traceable 
directly to the rough food they eat, and especially the 
quantity of fat meat and grease." "A great deal of 
meat is eaten in the south." ^'-•' 

" The slaves," wrote Dr. Channing, " have food in 
sufficient quantities, and with unfailing regularity, so 
that the first necessity of life is supplied. They are 



230 STRENGTH AND DIET 

accustomed to sell a part of their allowance, as well 
as to supply the market with fruits, poultry, etc., and 
thus they get the luxuries which they most value, such 
as tobacco, salt meat, and especially dress. Their 
appearance shows that they do not suffer from want 
of food. You never see among the women that haggish, 
shrunk, toil-worn countenance so common in Switzer- 
land and Germany. 

They suffer much ; but the origin of this is 
to be sought chiefly in moral evils. Their whole 
condition tends to degrade them intellectually and 
morally." . . .''' 

Mexico. — Despite their differences of race and 
physique, the people of Mexico seem almost unanimous 
in their opinion regarding the desirability of tortillas 
(flat cakes of roughly ground maize, salt, and water), 
with milk and coffee for breakfast ; beans, stewed with 
butter or oil for dinner, followed by oranges, lemons, 
etc. ; and maize porridge for supper. Edible acorns, 
beech-nuts, chestnuts, etc., and oranges, loquats, pine- 
apples, melons, and other fruits are very common and 
cheap in many parts." 

The ZajDotecan Indians are vegetarians, with the 
exception of their feasts at weddings, etc. ; they do not 
drink toke, and there is no drunkenness among them. 
The men work hard in the fields, the women do the 
marketing and are very independent. The people are 
active, fond of music, dancing, and bright colours.^"' 

The Indians of the State of Tobasco in IMexico live 
chiefly on Indian corn or maize, either in the form of 
thin cakes or made into a thick drink after beine^ 
ground and soured. A little sugar is added. " On 
this food alone they are enabled to undergo far more 



I 



DIET OF RxVCES AND NATIONS 2'n 

fatigue under the tropical sun of Mexico than our 
northern labourers in the northern latitudes with the 
free use of animal food." Mr. Pope gives very remark- 
able instances of their viQ;our and endurance. 

The men would pole a canoe sixteen hours out of 
the twenty-four up the Tobasco River against a current 
of three or four miles an hour, a very laborious task. 
" Those who abstain from the use of ardent spirits are 
muscular and strong ; and among them are to be found 
models for the sculptor." 

Mexican Indians have recently been described as 
carrying loads of 100 to 150 lb. over the worst of roads 
on their backs. The endurance they display is wonder- 
ful. They eat no flesh ; their food is boiled maize 
with sugar, and tortillas (maize) or omelet-pies. ^^^^ 

Humboldt gave the following interesting account 
of the Indians : " Accustomed to uniform nourishment 
of an almost entirely vegetable nature, that of their 
maize and cereal gramina, the Indians (Mexico) would 
undoubtedly attain very great longevity if their con- 
stitutions were not weakened by drunkenness. 

" The Indian tanatores, who may be considered as 
the beasts of burden of the mines of Mexico, remain 
loaded with a weight of from 250 to 380 pounds for a 
space of six hours. During this time they ascend and 
descend several thousands of steps in shafts of an 
inclination of 45 degrees." The}^ are exposed in some 
of the levels to a temperature of 71 to 11 degrees. 
" We cannot sufficiently admire the muscular strength 
of the Indian and Mestizo tanatores of Guanaxato, 
especially when we ourselves are oppressed with 
fatigue in ascending from the ])ottom of the mine of 
Valenciena without carrying the smallest weight." 



232 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" The appearance of these robust and laborious men 
would have wrought a change in the opinions of the 
Raynals," etc. " The labour which rapidly ruins the 
most robust constitutions is that of bareuadores, 
who blow up the rock with powder." These men 
rarely pass the age of thirty-five, if from a thirst for gain 
they continue their severe labour for the whole week. 

" From 5000 to 6000 persons are employed in the 
amalgamation of the minerals, or the preparatory 
labour, A great number of these individuals pass their 
lives in walking barefoot over heaps of brayed metal, 
moistened and mixed with muriate of soda, sulphate of 
iron, and oxide of mercury. It is a remarkable 
phenomenon to see these men enjoy the most perfect 
health." ^-^^ 

Peru. — The ordinary food of the Peruvians was 
wholly vegetable ; they were described by a gentleman 
who dwelt twenty years among them as the hardiest 
race in the world. In many respects the women were 
quite equal to the men in muscular power and agility. 
In 1823 General Valdez led his troops a distance of 
750 miles in eleven days, that is, more than 68 miles 
a day, and at the end met and routed the opposing 
army. During the march, the soldiers lived on the 
parched corn which they had in tlieir pockets. 

Parched corn is the principal and generally 
exclusive diet of the Peruvians when engaged in any 
particular enterprise or effort which requires great 
activity and power of body ; at other times they 
subsist on other products of their climate."^ 

Colombia — Central America. — The upper classes 
of Bogota, the capital of Colombia, live on a variety 
of meats, grains, and fruits, as in other countries ; but 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 233 

rice is a standing dish, steamed for hours till tender, 
then baked in a moderately warm oven till each grain 
is dry and crisp. It is then served with meat, fish, 
sauce, butter, or milk. For many people the breakfast 
is baked bananas and coffee, rice, fish, and fruit for 
dinner, and curded milk for supper. On this fare they 
thrive, and the women are described as l)eautiful. 
Turtle soup, perch, potatoes fried and boiled, salt beef, 
cassava root, gourds, rice, mangoes, cocoa-nuts, tropical 
fruits, cakes, and coffee were the articles of a bill of 
fare for dinner. A favourite cake is made of maize 
and rice flour mixed with butter and milk, and l)aked 
in layers, with guava jelly between each layer. Sour 
milk, mixed with raw burnt sugar, is served with 
cheese and maize or brown bread. This, as well as 
steamed rice and guava cake, may be termed a national 
dish. 

The usual breakfast amongst the artisan class in 
Bogota consists of roasted sweet potatoes, with or 
without coffee. A favourite hot drink is made by 
boiling raw sugar in water and adding a little spice. 
A very strong spirit is made from the sugar-cane, 
" more maddening in its effects than the opal-tinted 
absinthe, which is gradually dragging Paris to its 
doom." " Most of the people are as clever as they 
are hospitable, gay, and light-hearted." 

"The Opon Indians have a very fine physique; 
they live largely on maize, sugar-cane, and game, and 
on bananas, bread-fruit, oranges, and mangoes." 
" The offspring of the Indians and negroes, called 
Zambos, are a most intelligent race." " Taken as a 
whole, the inhabitants of New Granada, white and 
coloured, are a happy, healthy nation. ^^'^ 



234 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Venezuela. — The Venezuelans eat large quantities 
of flesh ; it is the land of beef, and as much flesh is 
consumed there as in Germany, Mr. Fuhrman, a 
resident, during his stay there lived largely on fruit, 
which the natives are siii3erstitiously afraid of The 
chief fruits are oranges, lemons, pine -apples, bananas, 
mangoes, " butter - fruit," pomegranates, limones, 
nisperos, cherimoyas, lechosas, tumas, and cocoa-nuts. ^'^ 

Argentina. — On the average, it is reported, Argen- 
tines eat three times as much flesh as Englishmen. 
The Gauchos, descendants of the original Spaniards, 
often eat 3 or 4 lb. at one meal ; many children of 
five or six years live almost entirely on flesh. The 
Gaucho population is decreasing. Most of the hard 
work is done by Italians, who maintain their non- 
flesh diet.^^- 

Buenos Ayres is, according to a recent traveller, 
" the most corrupt city on the ftice of the earth." 

Brazil. — " The Indians carefully abstain from 
drinking wdien eating, and the same custom prevails 
among many other savage tribes." 

The followino; notes on Ceyitral and' South America 
appear in the Official Reports : — 

Para. — " Over-indulgence, especially in drink, 
quickly produces bilious disorders, and often blood 
fevers, resulting in many serious illnesses and not a 
few sudden deaths." 

Porto Allegre. — The beverages which will prove 
hurtful are spirits of all sorts, and ordinary wines of 
Portugal and France. Temperance in food, but more 
in drink, is the best plan. 

San Paulo, Brazil. — The workman lives on a black 
bean, or mandioca root, and pork or l)eef. The lowest 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 235 

classes depend almost entirely on the black bean and 
mandioca. Coffee mixed with sugar-cane ; spirits is a 
common drink. 

Colombia. — The Indian peasant lives entirely on 
coarse bread and chieha, the common drink. 

Panama. — TJie food of the country is meat and 
rice ; strong spirits are drunk which are extremely 
hurtful to new comers. Deaths from fever are rare 
compared with those caused by alcoholic drinks. 

Quito. — Beer and spirits very harmful ; the cause 
of death of a great many foreigners. 

Peru. — In the country the people are frugal. Rice 
and beans, camotes, pumpkins, onions, a little flesh, 
keep them in a good hearty condition. Chocolate or 
cocoa is the usual drink. 

Foreign artisans sink extremely low through drink, 
in spite of excellent conditions for success. 

Brazil.— i^vkedi beef, codfish, cassava or mandioca 
(the staple bread). Rum is ruinous to Europeans. 

Rio Grande. — All stimulantsare hurtful to strangers. 

Maceio. — Jerked beef much eaten ; cassava root, 
Hour, sweet potatoes, pumpkins, beans, fruit, fish ; 
molasses brandy (destructive). 

Puerto Rico. — Salt fish, dried beef, plantains, rice, 
oil, water. 

Islands. 

Sandwich Islands. — Miss Bird describes the people 
of these islands as follows : — The women are incessantly 
enjoying themselves in riding, swimming, and making 
" leis." ..." Used to the down-trodden look and 
harassed, care-worn faces of the over-worked women 



236 STl^EXGTH AND DIET 

of the same class at home and in the colonies, the 
lausxhino- careless faces of the Hawaiian women have 
the effect upon me of a continual marvel." . . . The 
Hawaiians are a handsome people. ... A majestic 
w\ahine, with small, bare feet, a grand, swinging, de- 
liberate gait, . . . has a tragic grandeur of appearance, 
which makes the diminutive, fair-skinned haole, tottering 
along hesitatingly in high -heeled shoes, look grotesque 
by comparison. 

" A brilliant, laughing, joking crowd, their jaunty 
hats trimmed with fresh tiowers, and their costumes 
white, green, black, scarlet, blue, and every colour that 
can be imao-ined. ... I never saw such a mirthful- 
looking^ set of o-irls." Their emerf^ence, however, from 
ages of paganism and ignorance has only just begun, and 
they have plenty of serious faults, aggravated by the 
influence of the worst specimens of whites who settled 
in the islands before the Christian teachers. Vice and 
oppression have been terribly prevalent, but they now 
enjoy an excellent system of government, and education 
has become general. The men do whatever hard work 
is done in cultivating the kalo patches and pounding 
the kalo. This forms the national diet ; a Hawaiian 
could not exist without his calabash of noi. The kalo 
root is an ovate oblong, as bulky as Californian beet. 
The roots are baked and then beaten. This beatinsj is 
hard work, but the kalo is easily grown, and it is said 
that forty feet square of ground will support a man for 
a year. Their other articles of food are chiefly cocoa- 
nut, bread-fruit, yam, guava, banana, papaya fruit, pig, 
and chicken. Formerly raw^ fish was largely consumed. 
In spite of a beneficent administration, the native 
Hawaiians are greatly diminishing in numbers. They 



( 



II 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 2:37 

are not a rciiiarka])ly strong race physically, intel- 
lectually, or morally, and life is too easily maintained 
with little exertion. 

The Sandwich group is praised as " an earthly 
paradise " ; the people were bright-hearted and happy, 
fond of galloping over the sands, and disporting them- 
selves for hours in the ocean, according to Miss Bird 
and others. The Kanakas, as the natives are called, 
were amonsfst the finest and most intellioent races of 
the Pacific, They are decreasing, and have been long 
affected by European or American evil infiuences.^^^ 

The oppressive system of government under 
Europeans, the discontinuance of ancient sports, and 
changes in the habits of the people, the presentation 
of Christianity as a severe legal Jewish religion, de- 
prived of its beauty and tenderness, have done much 
harm.^^^ 

Taliiti. — The diet and physical characters of the 
Tahitians have been well described by Mv. William 
Ellis.^^^ 

Anions; their foods are — the fruit of the rata, a kind 
of chestnut, the ti-root, the sugar-cane, bread-fruit (the 
staple), various tropical plants introduced by Europeans, 
such as pumpkins, melons, French beans, etc., sweet 
potatoes, plantains, 1)ananas, Brazilian plums ; swine 
and dogs — these were the only quadrupeds eaten. Fish 
was eaten by the people living near the sea. 

The bread-fruit and the taro or arum and the yam 
were the chief articles of diet of the South Sea Islands. 
In the Sandwich Islands the sweet potato was one of 
the staples. 

" After the Tahitians had been brought by foreign 
seamen and natives of the Sandwich Islands to distil 



♦238 STRENGTH AND DIET 

spirits from roots, and rum had been carried to the 
ishiiids as an article of barter, intoxication became 
ahnost universal ; and all the demoralisation, crimes, 
and misery that follow in its train were added 
to the multiplied sorrows and wasting scourges of 
the people." It increased indolence, discord, and 
infanticide. 

The Tahitians were generally above the middle 
stature ; their limbs less muscular than the Sandwich 
Islanders. They were more robust than the Marquesans, 
who are light and agile. In size and physical power 
they were inferior to the New Zealanders, and resembled 
the Friendly Islanders. The limbs were well formed, 
and many of them were " models of perfection in the 
human figure." Their countenances were open and 
prepossessing ; their teeth always entire, excepting in 
extreme old age, and remarkably white. The women 
were stronger and bigger than English women. The 
men sometimes displayed impassioned eloquence in 
their assemblies, and used pure, cojdIous, and precise 
lano'uaoe. 

Deformity and loathsome disease are now seen 
frequently, introduced by foreigners. Elephantiasis 
had, however, long existed. Many of the Soutli Sea 
Islanders became not only utterly depraved in moral 
character, but, as a consequence, incapable of long- 
exertion and endurance. They were beaten in rowing 
]>y an English crew. They endure fatigue and hunger 
better than Europeans. They eat largely as a rule, but 
on a long journey very little. Their length of life was 
nearly the same as with Europeans. " The mode of 
living, especially among the farmers, their simple diet, 
and the absence of all stimulants," their early hours and 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 239 

freedom from worries and from sedentary lial)it.s, 
appeared favouraljle to their longevity. 

Bougainville says of the Otaheitans tluit their diet 
was nine-tenths vegetable, and the children's entirely. 
They were "free from our diseases" before European 
immio-ration. 

Professor Lawrence, F.R.S., in his lectures asserted 
that "the negroes, whose great bodily powers are well 
known, feed chiefly on vegetable substances, and the 
same is the case with the South Sea Islanders, whose 
agility and strength were so great that the stoutest and 
most expert English sailors had no chance with them in 
wrestlina; or boxino-." ^^" 

Funafuti. — Cocoa-nut is the common food of the 
people of Funafuti. Cocoa-nuts, roots, and leaves ; lolo, 
or cocoa-nut cream, bread-fruit, taro and arum roots, 
and fish and crabs make up their dietary. Fish is a 
very frequent article of fare, and is eaten raw. The 
beverage is the liquid from the young, green cocoa-nut. 
Sometimes se;.i-l)irds and pigs are eaten. The pig-feasts 
are always followed by bilious attacks and illness. ^^' 

Phili2:)pine Islands. — According to Raynal, the 
negroes of the Philippine Islands were a " strong and 
nervous " (active ? ) people, and lived on roots and 
fruits.^ 

Ste. Croix. — The Official Report states that the 
diet of the labouring classes is maize, meal, and vege- 
tables, with salt fish. They are capable of great 
physical exertion, which, however, is intermittent, as 
they only come to work when they want money. The 
greater number of negro coal labourers are women. 
They sometimes carry three hundred baskets a day, 
each weighing about 90 lb. ; these are carried on the 



240 STRENGTH AND DIET 

head. To strangers, " excess in stimulants of every 
kind is injurious." 

Reunion. — Rice, salt fish, vegetables ; occasional 
poultry or pork. Two meals only. Rum is rank poison 
to Europeans ; they cannot drink it and live. 

Xavigator Islands. — The water in the cocoa-nut is 
much drunk, also water obtained by gashing a certain 
climbing plant. Spirits are injurious. 

The Azores. — Maize, fried fish, yams, cucumbers, 
melons, vegetable soup ; pig's flesh at Christmas. This 
is the fare of the peasantry, and that of the artisans is 
similar. 

Madeira. — Maize, pulse, vegetables, rice, lard 
flavouring, bread, fish, occasional Hesli, occasional 
wine. 

*S'^. Vincent. — The fare of the neofroes is maize, 
beans, mandioca, fish. 

Canary Isles. — Potatoes, sweet potatoes, salt fish, 
fruits, roasted wheat, barley, or maize made into gofic, 
a very ancient dish. 

Another observer writes : " The natives maintain 
splendid health on a dietary consisting almost wholly 
of grain which has been exposed to a temperature 
sufficient to brown and slightly parch it. . . . Cereals 
are always improved by a second cooking, and, in fact, 
cookins: cannot be overdone with cereals." ^^^ 

The Canary Islanders were certainly remarkable for 
strength. One labourer is mentioned who lifted and 
bore to a ship a mass of barilla which four American 
labourers attempted in vain to lift. This man's diet 
was coarse vegetables and fruit. 

St. J ago de Cuba. — Beef, cod, vegetables, fruits, 
spirits. The liquors for sale are inferior and strong, 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 241 

firing the l)raiD to a frightful extent, intoxicating to 
madness, and engendering bad forms of dysentery. 

The followino- notes on the islands of the Southern 
and Pacific Oceans are derived from the Geographical 
Handbook 071 Australasia, ed. Dr. Alfred R. Wallace : — 

Pitcairn Island was colonised by a few mutineers 
of the Bounty in 1790, together with Tahitian men and 
women. After a period of disorder, the community 
settled down to habits of industry, and in 1825 Captain 
Beechy found them living in uninterrupted harmony, 
in a village surrounding an open square of grass, and 
shaded by plantains and fig-trees. Crime and dissension 
in this family of sixty-six persons were unknown ; he 
describes it as a kind of " Garden of Eden." Their 
food was mostly vegetable and partly animal — pigs and 
fowls. In 1873 Commander Main waring found the 
colony, then numbering seventy-six, doing well, and 
remarked that endemic and epidemic diseases were 
unknown there. In 1878 Admiral de Horsey visited 
them, and described them as all in good health and 
quite happy ; still, as in 1825, " virtuous, religious, 
cheerful, hospitable, patterns of conjugal and parental 
affection." 

Pliilippine Islands. — The main subsistence of the 

Filipinos was rice, but they also grew maize, yams, 

sweet potatoes, etc. Mr. Crawford's researches led 

him to conclude that formerly their food consisted of 

sweet potatoes, bananas, and wild fruits. Some of the 

wild tribes in the southern peninsula of Luzon still 

grow maize, yams, sweet potatoes, but live cliiefly on 

wild i)igs, deer, and other game. 

Polynesia. — The people of the Friendly Islands 
16 



242 STRENGTH AND DIET 

made, according to Lord George Campbell, " a splendid 
picture of the genus homo, and, as far as physique and 
appearance goes, they certainly gave one the impression 
of being a superior race to ours." ^^'' Captain Erskine's 
report is similar : "A remarkably fine-looking set of 
people, . . . several above 6 feet high and of herculean 
proportions." The arm of one measured, above the 
elbow, 15 J inches round, while that of probably the 
stoutest man in the ship was but 14 inches. Their 
"manly beauty was very remarkable." The people 
were joyous and fond of amusement, clean, and clever 
in native manufactures. They were, when first visited 
by Europeans, remarkably healthy, brave, candid, 
cheerful, 

Sumatra. — The Sumatrans of the interior, according 
to Mr. Marsden, are temperate and sober, with a diet of 
vegetables and water, except at festivals or on visits 
from strangers, when they supply animal flesh. 

Borneo. — The Dyaks of Borneo cultivate rice, vege- 
tables, and fruit trees, which furnish an important part 
of their food. 

Neiu Guinea. — -The Papuans eat pigs, dogs, fowls, 
kangaroos, lizards, fish, molluscs, insects, sweet potatoes, 
bananas, sugar-cane, bread-fruit, cocoa-nut, mango, etc. 
In the Neiv Hebrides, in Aristeum, the savages are 
" becoming educated, and form a most interesting 
community." But " epidemic diseases introduced by 
Europeans, and the too sudden change from the habits 
of barbarism to those of civilisation, everywhere destroy 
our most promising converts." The number of people 
has fallen from 12,000 to 2000. They were cannibals, 
but soon adopted the quiet habits of civilisation. Their 
staple was probably like that of the people of New 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 243 

BHtain — brcad-friut, yams, taro, cocoa-nut, fish, and 
flesh. 

In New Caledonia, the fare was mainly yams, 
bananas, sugar-cane, etc. They were skilful agricul- 
turists, but thorough savages and cannibals. They 
were well-built, and brave as warriors. 

Australia. — The food of the natives is "very 
varied," and " of animal food they eat almost every 
living thing," including lizards, snakes, frogs, white 
ants, and moths. Human fiesh was eaten " not only 
from necessity, but from choice," Eggs and flesh are 
often allowed to putrefy before use. Wild yams are 
very abundant and large, the roots of the bulrush are 
roasted and made into cakes, many other roots are 
eaten, also young leaves and bark, the seeds of legumi- 
nosse, herbs, fungi, manna from a eucalyptus, and 
honey. Water is obtained from shallow wells in the 
dry sand, and from the dew on long grass. 

The Australian natives are so hardy that though a 
limb may be so torn and riddled with wounds as to 
become a shapeless mass of torn flesh, it quickly heals 
with " no remedy but a little fine dust." 

No food crop was cultivated, no domestic animal 
reared, for food or companionship, except the dog. 

Neiv Zealand. — Sweet potatoes, taros, gourds, roots, 
berries, fish, moas, and other animal food, including 
human flesh, made up the victuals of the savage Maoris. 
They were strong and active, hunters, fishers, artificers, 
and orators. With civilisation "the spirit and enjoy- 
ment of life seems to have left them." " Diseases and 
vices decimate them." " We seem to civilise and 
Christianise only to destroy." (1880.) 

The Malays in the Malay Archipelago are " very 



•244 STRENGTH AND DIET 

frnpral," " the eating-houses take the .place of our 
diiuking-houses," and here " they indulge in dry rice, 
capsicums, little scraps of meat or fish, cooked vege- 
tables, and sweet tit-bits," with a cup of hot water. 
They are distinguished by " greater energy and acquisi- 
tiveness from the other races of the archipelago." The 
moral character given them is low. Nominally Moslems. 

Savage Island. — The increase in the population 
here " becomes most valuable evidence that Polynesians 
may be civilised without being exterminated, if only 
they are protected from the rude competition, the vices, 
and the diseases which free intercourse with the ordinary 
class of Europeans invariably brings upon them." 

In Tahiti the people are " decreasing with alarming 
rapidity." '' To harsh treatment, intemperance, and 
epidemics thousands fell victims." Dances were for- 
bidden by the missionaries, and intoxication took their 
place, with most disastrous results. The orange, now 
fermented, has been to them as the forbidden fruit 
of the garden of Eden. 

The following notes result from the reduction to 
the smallest possible compass of information contained 
in Featherman's Social History of the Races of 
Mankind, referring to the diet and physical qualities 
of a large number of races and tribes. These are 
arranged not so much according to geographical position 
or country, as according to race or origin. The single 
word "medium" is used to denote medium stature. 
The original descriptions, having been based upon no 
common plan, are wanting in comparability, but abound 
with interesting matter. 

Where moral qualities are mentioned it is Avell to 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 245 

renicniber that different travellers and observers give 
very different accounts in many cases of the people 
subject to their comment ; also that the condition both 
of physical and moral health depends on many factors. 
Food is often a lesser element than some long- 
persistent habit or racial equality. I have therefore 
omitted all l)ut a few of the opinions held by European 
visitors of the moral characteristics of a race, and these 
few seemed to have o-ood evidence of verisimilitude. 
There is sufficient material, I think, when disturbing- 
elements have been eliminated so far as may be, for a 
fair estimate of the influence on strength of several 
kinds of staple diet, and of the habits connected with 
their supply. In very many cases where flesh is 
mentioned, it is only a rare or occasional extra. 

The nature of the food eaten by the various tribes 
and races, and the physical development of these, are 
concisely noted in parallel columns : — 

Arameans. 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 


The Bedjahs . 


Flesh, milk, etc., 
chiefly. 


Temperate, generous, 
medium, robust, well 
formed. 


The Meyrahs . 


Dhourra bread, bamieh 
or okra (hibisc. escul.), 
pounded beef, with salt, 
pepper, spices, and herbs, 
with milk added. This 
is the common dish 
twice a day. Camel, 
beef, or mutton occasion- 
ally. Maize or millet ; 
bonza beer. 


Corrupt, drunken, 
avaricious (some tribes). 



246 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Barahras or 

Kenoos 
(Berber race.) 



Ahadde 



Foods. 



Siwahs . 



Kdbyles 



Tuaregs . 
(Sahara) 



Gtiauches . . 
(Canary Isles) 



Dhourra cakes, curdled 
milk — chief diet. Bean 
leaves, dates, beans, 
onions, okra, maize, 
locusts, crocodile. 

Dhourra, milk. Flesh 
occasionallj'^ ; rarely of 
their flocks or herds, 
but of wild animals 
often. 

Dates, rice, cuscoosoo 
(wheat), lentils, chick- 
peas, cakes, and pastry 
baked in oil. Flesh 
occasionally, fowls, 
snails, mussels, fruits, 
vegetables ; sour milk, 
date wine. 



Cuscoosoo 
wheat, with 
gredients ; 
versal dish 



(roasted 

other in- 

' the uni- 

of North 



Physical Character. 



Africa.") Bread, milk, 
butter, honey, dried figs 
in oil, vegetables, mutton 
and kid occasionally. 

Excessively abste- 
mious ; wheat, barley, 
or millet porridge, vege- 
tables, dates, figs, raisins, 
kids, mutton, antelopes, 
etc., butter, cheese. 

Gofio (ground barley), 
peas, beans, mallow, 
milk, goat flesh, fish; 
water. 



Medium, 
active. 



robust, 



INIedium, well formed, 
well disposed. 



Slender, suspicious, 
gloomy, brave, warlike, 
sober. 



ISIedium, slender, 
well formed, very 
strong, active, enduring, 
vivacious, brave, inde- 
pendent, honest. 



Tall, robust, mus- 
cular. " Lying, theft, 
etc., are unknown 
among them"(!) In- 
dependent, confiding, 
brave. 

Tall, active, inde- 
fatigable, robust, hardy, 
brave ; very high 
morally. Extremely 
fond of music. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 247 



Arabo-Arameans. 



Peoples. 



Foods, 



Bedouins 



Wahahees 



Wahahees . . 

(Central Arabia. 
76,000 Be- 
ilouins alto- 
gether there.) 



"The most frugal and 
sober of all the nations." 
" They can live for 
months on the smallest 
allowance." The poorer 
classes rarely if ever eat 
meat. 'Wheat or dhourra, 
milk, butter, oil, vege- 
tables at times. Rice 
mixed with lentils a 
common dish in some 
tribes, dates and milk 
almost the only fare in 
others. Flesh on rare 
occasions ; locusts fre- 
quently. Sour milk the 
general drink. No drink 
at meals, but after. 
"Ayesh" is a general 
article of diet, flour with 
sour milk, afterwards 
boiled, but " burgool " 
is still more common, 
wheat boiled with leaven 
and dried. 

Rice, boiled mutton, 
dates, eggs, bread, vege- 
tables ; coffee, "in ex- 
tremely small quanti- 
ties." 

Rice, boiled mutton, 
dates, eggs, bread, gourds, 
cucumbers. Coffee in 
extremely small quan- 
tities at a time. Many 
vegetables. The date- 
palm is the principal 
crop. 



Physical Character. 



Short, moderately 
strong, active, enduring, 
brave ; very fine in char- 
acter, but now in many 
parts degenerated. 



Independent, patient, 
temperate, brave, 
viixorous. 



Independent, patient, 
austere, brave, vigorous, 
unflaggingly energetic ; 
warlike. Every chief 
of a family is owner of 
a piece of land. 



248 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Foods 



Physical Character. 



Sedentary Arabs 
of the Heel jar. 
(W. Arabia.) 



Arabs of South 
Arabia 



Omanites 
(S.E. Arabia.) 



Syrian Arabs . 

Very much 
mixed in race, 
except the 
Bedouins, 
who are pure 
Arabs. 

Druses . . . 
(Mount 

Lebanon. ) 
(60,000.) 



At Mecca two meals a 
day are eaten. Mixed 
diet, rather rich fare. 
Coffee. Tobacco gener- 
ally used. Much fruit. 

Dhourra bread, milk, 
oil, butter or fat, roast 
flesh occasionally. Eice, 
pulse, whipped cream. 
Locusts. Cawa coffee. 
Tobacco generally 
smoked. 

Breakfast : dates and 
rice, or baked wheat 
cakes. Supper : rice and 
flesh, or pilau and ghee 
butter. The poor are 
restricted to rice or 
wheat and fish, vege- 
tables, and fruit. Grapes 
and sugar-cane are largely 
eaten. Sweetmeats, al- 
monds, shark, dolphin ; 
water. The rich drink 
wine often. Bedouins : 
dates, milk, and occa- 
sional flesh. 

Barley or dhourra, 
onions, lentils, burgool 
wheat; occasional honey, 
curds, milk, butter, and, 
exceptionally, flesh. 



Frugal ; fruits, grain, 
vegetables, and raw 
flesh. 



Strong, muscular, 
clean. 



Slender, muscular, 
vivacious, energetic, 
sober, frugal. 



Medium, sparely 
made. The country 
people are a proud and 
high - minded race. 
Credulous. 



Medium, resembling 
the Arab stock. De- 
liberate, humane, but 
fanatical and intolerant. 
Mentally high ; hospit- 
able. 



Hardy, energetic, 
industrious, restless, 
austere, hospitable, 

sudden and quick in 
quarrel ; intellectually 
high. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 249 



Peoples. 



Anseyreeyah 



Moors 

(Barbaiy, etc.) 
(Arab origin.) 



Barhary 

Bedouins 



Eriyptian Arabs 



Foods. 



Ahyssinians 



Rice, sorghum, maize, 
wheat, fowls ; Avine, 
spirits, tobacco. 



Friigal ; cuscoosoo, 
vegetables, beef, mutton. 
Principal meal at sunset. 
Coffee, tea, tobacco. 



Barley, sour milk, 
honey, oil, locusts in the 
south, and dates. The 
rich eat cuscoosoo, flesh, 
etc. 

Verytemperate; coarse 
fare ; cofiee, beans boiled 
during the past night ; 
linseed oil, butter, lime- 
juice, bread, vegetables, 
herbs, soup, rice, flesh, 
fish, etc., among the 
richer classes. The 
fellahs live on dhourra 
or maize, onions, lentils, 
dates, vegetables ; occa- 
sional rice, with flesh ; 
tobacco-smoking. 

Bread, flesh, vege- 
tables, butter, mead, 
beer. Raw or living 
fle-sh. 



Physical Character. 



Fine, stout, well 
formed; honest in deal- 
ings, but untruthful 
through oppression ; 
avaricious, vengeful. 

Medium, tall ; also 
thick and clumsy in the 
lower class; debased, 
suspicious, supersti- 
tious, sensual ; great 
fortitude in misfortune ; 
after childhood, un- 
energetic, indolent, 
stupid. Women suckle 
for two years. 

Proud, sober, aftable, 
independent, covetous ; 
medium height; robust. 



Above medium, mus- 
cular, robust. Fellahs 
are medium, strong, 
robust, muscular — 
honest, frugal , generous ; 
character high con- 
sidering past oppres- 
sion ; mentally high, 
cheerful. 



Medium, slender, 
strong , reckless of life ; 
cruel to animals bar- 
baric. 



1250 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Falat'Iias 
(Abyssinian 
Jews.) 

Ha-isani/ah 
Arabs 

(White Nile, 
etc.) 

Lihijan Bedouins 



Sahara Arabs 



Foods. 



Baked flour, cooked 
flesh, beer or hydromel, 
some vegetables. 

Dhourra, maize, sour 
milk, mutton, ostrich. 



Peas, beans, barley, 
dates, butter. Seldom 
any flesh. 

Cuscoosoo, maize, rice, 
dates, mutton or beef; 
water. 



Physical Character. 



Simple, honest, 
cleanly, sober, active, 
brave. 



Short, lean ; faith- 
ful to their word. 



Medium, commercial, 

coveteous. 



I 



Syro-Arameans. 



Phoenicians . 
(Ancient.) 

Babylonians 
(Ancient.) 



Yezcdees . . 
(Near 

Nineveh.) 



Nestorians . . 

(Near Armenia) ; 

100,000. 



Maronites . 
(Lebanon.) 



Mixed. 



Fearless, daring, skil- 
ful, strong, enterprising. 

Brave, ostentatious, 
licentious ; highly civil- 
ised in the arts. 



Bruised wheat, milk, i Fine, below medium, 
curds, boiled together ; i well formed, strong, 
mutton and onions, 
pease porridge, figs. 



Dhourra bread, rice, 
beans, melons, almonds, 
etc. 



Beans, onions, rice, 
honey, oil, arrack, boiled 
reheat, with oil and 
onions ; cheese, butter- 
milk, lentils. 



enduring, intemperate, 
industrious, lively, 
brave, cruel. 

Quick, intelligent, 
vindictive, brave, 
frugal, cunning, intem- 
perate in drink. 

Mendicant. 



DIET OF RACES .VXD NATIONS 251 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 


Egypto-Libyans 


Wheat bread, beef, 


Strong and active. 


(Ancient.) 


goose, fish, game, vege- 
tables, fruit, lentils, figs, 
dates, cheese, milk. 




Xuba-< . . . 


[Diet not stated. 


Rather tall, strong, 




Probably it resembles 


and muscular in the 




that of the Arabs of 


best districts ; much 




Egypt.] 


emaciated on the poor 
land, and below medium 
generally ; honest and 
very frugal and temper- 
ate; fierce. 



Ugrio-Turanians. 



Tchoova-sh . . 
(S.E. Russia); 
very rich soil ; 
about 680,000. 



Votialcs . 
(North -Kast 
Finnish 
Branch) ; 
161,000. 

Tcheremiss . 
(Right and left 
bank of Volga.) 



Mordwins, 

Ka::an, etc. 
(Eastern Russia.] 



Coarse food — por- 
ridge, buckwheat, milk, 
cabbage, bread, fish, 
flesh of game, beet, sour 
milk, brandy. 



Rye bread, oats, melted 
butter, vegetable soups, 
geese, eggs ; beer, tea, 
and sour milk. 



Oatmeal, whey, vege- 
tables, squirrels, hares, 
game, etc. 



[Diet not given. 
Probably it resembles 
the ordinary Russian 
fare.] 



Below medium, bar- 
baric, dull eyes, low 
foreheads ; high mor- 
ally, not intellectually ; 
love solitude ; honest, 
simple, frugal. 

Like Finns, medium, 
low foreheads ; morally 
high ; frugal, but many 
are drunken ; dull. 



The i)lain men are 
medium or short; the 
mountain men tall ; 
very frugal and ab- 
stemious in food, but 
hard drinkers. 

Honest, shy, dull, 
dirty, agricultural, 
cattle-raisin". 



252 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Osfi/aks . . . 
(N. W. Siberia.) 



Voguh 



Samoyedes . 
(Arctic 

Wanderers) 



Foods. 



Reindeer, milk, blood, 
train oil, fish, geese, 
ducks, berries etc. ; 
water, brandy. 

Flesh, fish, cedar-nuts, 
grass seed. 

Reindeer, fish, blood, 
raw flesh, entrails, like 
beasts of prey ; geese. 



Physical Character. 



Short, well formed. 



Like 
stature. 



Ostyaks, low 



Very short — 4 ft. — 
sturdy ; low foreheads, 
sight keen ; feelings 
extremely obtuse ; in- 
dolent, miserable, de- 
clining. 



Turanians. 



Generally 



Various. 



The Turanian stock, 
with the exception of 
the Chinese and Japan- 
ese, has been " deficient 
in the loftier flights of 
the imagination, and its 
reasoning powers are 
incapable of grasping 
abstract principles and 
specvilative ideas. Its 
mode of thinking is a 
dull, unvaried routine. 
Its legions overran 
much of the civilised 
world, humbling the 
most powerful nations, 
leaving death and de- 
solation behind. Now, 
the Turanians, who 
were the universal 
tyrants, who seem to 
have been born to com- 
mand, crawl before that 
mighty spirit which 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 253 



Peoples. 



OsmanU . . 
(Turks.) 



Foods. 



Among the middle and 
poorer classes flesh is 
rarely eaten; bread is 
the principal part of the 
poor man's food. Beans 
and pease and whey are 
continually used; cheese, 
treacle, onions, garlic 
very frequently. The 
richer classes add chic- 
ken, fowl, mutton, or 
fish to their staple dish 
of rice, with pepper. 
Sherbet and coffee are 
the favourite drinks. 



Physical Character. 



science has evoked, and 
which is destined to 
regenerate mankind." 

The Turanian stock 
is said to have devel- 
oped in Siam, or at least 
in Southern China. 

Were originally pure 
Turanians, but are now 
exceedingly mixed. 
They formerly dwelt 
near the Altai Moun- 
tains, afterwards occu- 
pied the strip between 
the desert of Khiva and 
the Caspian Sea. Were 
remarkable for strength 
and valour. They are 
now intermixed with 
Georgian, Circassian, 
Greek, Arab, and Jew- 
ish stock. The semi- 
Iranian or Aramean 
Osmanli, by Circassian, 
Georgian, or Greek 
women, " exhibits per- 
haps the highest per- 
fection of manly beauty, 
united with a healthy 
and vigorous constitu- 
tion, that the world has 
ever seen." The wo- 
men also are said to be 
most beautiful. 

The unmixed Tur- 
anian Turk is rather 
short, compact, well 
built, with low fore- 
head ; stupid, dilatory. 
While they were still 
wandering hordes of 



254 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Foods. 



Physical Character, 



Esthonians, 
Lithuania, 
etc. 
56°-60° N. 



Kort, or barley soup. 
In some parts the poor 
live on this. Sauerkrout, 
pork. Brandy-drinking 
is encouraged by land- 
owners ; temperance 
societies are not per- 
mitted. The people are 
frugal in general, very 
intemperate in drink. 



shepherd warriors, they 
were brave in the field, 
truthful and generous ; 
but when they became 
mighty conquerors, con- 
trolling powerful em- 
pires, . . . they be- 
came intoxicated with 
prosperity, arrogant, 
cruel, ferocious. "With 
the Koran as all-suffi- 
cient, they remained 
ignorant. Exercising 
tyrannical supremacy 
over conquered races, 
they were attacked by 
" the canker of degen- 
eracy." 

The Osmanli have 
still, however, some ex- 
cellent qualities; they 
are generally free from 
crime, devoted to 
parents and children, 
temperate, frugal, re- 
ligious. The pure Turk 
is uninteilectual, illogi- 
cal, matter-of-fact, fatal- 
istic. Those of mixed 
blood are much more 
intelligent. 

Degraded by six hun- 
dred years of oppres- 
sion. Below medium, 
wanting in strength, 
low in disposition, 
rough, indolent. Very 
brave, quick, and intel- 
ligent. 



II 



DIET OF KxVCES AND NATIONS 255 



Peoples. 



Foods. 



Livonians 



Tchoovasli 
(S.P:. Russia) 

680,000. 
Ugrio -Turan- 
ian type. 



Votlahs . . . 
(Finnish race) 
161,000. 



Crim-Tatars 



Minnsinsh 
Tatars 



Fish, bread, honey. 
Intemperate in drink. 



Frugal. Intemperate 
in drink. Porridge, 
buckwheat, milk, cab- 
bage, onions, beets, fish, 
pork (occasionally), and 
game. Sour milk for 
drink ; also vodka, beer. 
Tobacco. 

Rye bread, oat bread, 
with rye intermixed, 
barley, buckwheat, beer, 
soups, eggs, geese, light 
brandy, tea, and sour 
milk. 



Rice, boiled with meat- 
broth, mutton, lamb, 
cucumber, apples, etc. 
The country people eat 
mutton, goats, milk, eggs, 
butter, unripe wheat, 
dried or bruised ; wheat, 
rye, or barley bread, 
curdled milk ; and an in- 
toxicating drink, also 
cider, etc. 

Glutton, horse flesh, 
eggs, milk, cheese, kou- 
miss, and milk brandy. 



Physical Character. 



Medium, robust, en- 
during. Not high in 
character. 

Simple, honest, with 
a strong sense of right 
and justice. Very 
friendly, hating war, 
loving quiet. Short, 
slender, slow. 



Strong, peaceful, 
frugal, slow, medium 
height. 



The pure Tatars are 
short, robust, credulous, 
apathetic, indolent, 

sober. The Circassian 
Tatars, tall and robust. 



256 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Bashkirs 
(S. of Altai.) 



Foods. 



Mutton, hares, fish, 
birdcherry, roots, flour 
cakes, koumiss, kroot, 
acrid cheese water. The 
poorer classes live on 
barley, oats, and cheese 
in winter. 



Yakuts ... Upper classes eatmuch 

(N.E. Siberia.) ; flesh. Horse, fat, birch 

(Min. temp., ] bark, fish, milk, flour, 

-56°to-78°.) are the common ff^re. 

The only bread is made 

of the thin under- 

skin of the fir or larch. 

Milk, dried vegetables, 

koumiss. Much eating 

and drinking. 



Kirghiz Kassaks 



Toorkis . . . 
Toorkistan, 
Khiva. (Ex- 
tremes of tem- 
perature. ) 

Toorkomans 



Mutton, beef, kid, 
camel, horse, chicken, 
boiled wheat and millet, 
koumiss. The poor have 
mutton and kroot cheese 
daily. 

Mutton, rice, beef, 
goats, horse, entrails, 
pillau or rice. Sour milk. 
Br-iad, vegetables, peas, 
beans, carrots, etc. 

Mutton, pillau, coarse 
flour cakes, pumpkins, 
melons, buttermilk, 
cotfee (sometimes twenty 
cups a day). The lab- 
ourers eat only bread and 
oil, except on rare occa- 
sions. 



Physical Character. 



Medium, strong, ro- 
bust, warlike, indolent. 



South of the Vir- 
choyusnki Mountains, 
Yakuts are 5 ft. 10 in. 
to 6 ft., well built, 
strong, active. In the 
colder parts, short, 
active, unhealthy look- 
ing. Low in intellect, 
superstitious, gentle, in- 
dolent. 



Medium, hardy, ro- 
bust, repulsive, indo- 
lent, cowardly, decep- 
tive, morose, melan- 
choly. 



On the whole, tem- 
perate in habit, but 
voracious on occasions. 



Medium, vicious. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 257 



I'eoples. 


Foods. 


riiysical Character. 


Tatar Toorkies 


Rice, with mutton. 


Like other Toorkies, 


(Extremes of 


Li<fhtly leavened bread, 


medium and robust, but 


temperature.) 


horse, yak, pheasants, 


unlike them in charac- 


Yarkand is 


fruits, melons, etc. 


ter ; happy and cheer- 


the capital of 




ful. 


Chinese Ta- 






tary. 







Finns 



Finns and Lapps. 

The staple food of the 
middle and poorer classes 
is potatoes, butter, fresh 
and curdled milk, salted 
fish, and occasionally 
salted flesh. Bread is 
used in a dry state. 
Much brandy is drunk 
by the men, and coffee 
by the women. They 
smoke a great deal of 
tobacco from an early 
age. 

Minimum temperature 
in the north, 50" F.; at 
Abo the mean tempera- 
ture is 37*3°; at Enon- 
tekeis, 27-4°. The cli- 
mate is unfavourable to 
agriculture. 

Rye, barley, and oats 
are the principal crops ; 
others are potatoes, tur- 
nips, cabbages ; and in 
the south apples, pears, 
plums. Agriculture is 
successfully pursued. On 
the Gulfs of Finland 
and Bothnia the people 
live principally on fish. 
i The rearing of domestic 
I fowls is an important 
industry. 



17 



The Finns are the 
most advanced of all 
the branches of this 
race, except the Mag- 
yars. The ancient 
Finns lived by hunting 
and fishing, and were 
savage ; at present they 
are remarkable for in- 
tegrity, veracity, and 
frugality. The Taves- 
ters are strong and 
robust, with broad 
shoulders. The Kare- 
lians are tall, slender, 
and less strong. 



258 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Lapps 



Hungarians 



Foods. 



The mountain Lai:)ps 
live on reindeer and 
milk. The hunters live 
on bears and other pame. 
Bread and salt are ahiiost 
unknown among the wild 
tribes of mountain Lapps. 
Black bread or sawdust 
is used among the poor 
of South Lapland. Water 
is the common drink. 
Some fruit. 

Magyars. 

The Roumanians, 
" wild Wallachians," 
hardly ever eat flesh ; 
their principal food is 
maize mush. 

The settled Gipsies live 
on food like that of their 
neighbours; the nomadic 
tribes like to feast on 
the flesh of animals dead 
of disease or accident, 
especially tainted flesh, 
porcupines, marmots, 
squirrels, fowls ; icater, 
brandy. 



Physical Character. 



]\Iuch inferior to the 
other Ugrio-Turanians. 
Very few attain five 
feet. Broad-chested, 
strong - limbed, agile, 
swift, very strong and 
enduring. Defective in 
reasoning powers, and 
slow in intellect. 



The mixed Hun- 
garians or Magyars are 
fine, handsome, tall, 
robust, but the pure 
Magyars are reported 
to be far from beautiful. 

[The Wallachians are 
described by Volney as 
tall, well built, robust, 
and very healthy-look- 
ing. "They prefer vege- 
tables and fruits to the 
most delicate meats."] 



Central axd South America. 



Chiapjans 
Guiacurus 
Cocliimis 
(California.) 



The Guiacurus ate 

flesh, fish, insects, agave, 
pine-nuts, wild fruits, etc. 



Medium, robust, ex- 
cessively gluttonous, 
coarse, low, savage. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 259 



Peoples. 



Foods. 



Physical Character. 



Mutsuns ... Venison, many beasts, Medium, "well formed. 
(California.) insects, acorns, nuts, wild 
fruits. 



Chichemics . . Vegetable food, maize, 

(Central Mexico.) bananas, etc. ; intoxi- 

; cants. 



Tall, muscular, well 
developed. 



Zapot-icos . . i Maize, vegetables, tish, 
1 fleshoccasionally; frugal, 
i but fond of over-drinking 



Medium, robust, 

pleasing. 



Opat<u ... I Mixed food, game, fish, Tall, erect, well 

(North Mexico.) vegetables, maize. Boiled formed; morality high. 

beans and pumpkins at 

' every meal. 



Maijai 



Aztecs 



Mosijuitos . 
(Honduras.) 



Nicara'juas . 
(Mountain 

country.) 

Urahas . 



Maize, fruit, lish, game. Tall, robust, intelli- 
gent ; moral on the 
I whole. 

Maize, fish, flesh, etc. I Medium or short, 
physically fine ; moral 
qualities mixed. 

Mixed diet ; plantains, ' Medium, well built, 

bananas, pine - apples, athletic ; various moral 

sweet potatoes, and yams qualities, good and bad, 

are staples ; roots, often very bad. 
various flesh of game. 



Vegetable staple;' Rather short, strong; 

maize, beans, . bananas, good qualities. 
plantains, etc. 

Mixed diet ; maize, ! Medium, partly well 

etc., and game and fish, formed and muscular ; 

Red pepper much used. | various in moral quali- 

I ties. 



260 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Coybas 

(Panama.) 



Guyanos . . 



ArawciJis 



Warraus 
(Related to the 
Arawaks.) 



Macusis . 



Galibia 



Caraibo 



Alayas 



Orinocos 



Moxos 



Foods. 



Mostly vegetable, 
^laize, bananas, plan- 
tains, etc. 

Cassava bread, maize, 
fruit, sweet potatoes, 
yams, etc.; insects. 

Manioc the staple. 
Flesh, fish, cassava. Very 
frugal. 



Game, fish, blood, 
insects. 



Mandioca, sweet 
potato, pine-apple; game, 
birds, fish. 

Flesh, fish, manioc, 
sweet potato, yams. 

Cassava bread, yams, 
bananas, plantains, 
maize, fish, birds. 



Almost exclusively'' 
vegetable ; cassava, 

maize, etc. 

Flesh, fish, maize, 
etc. ; one principal meal 
only; drinkers of in- 
toxicants. 

Game, finh, maize. 



Physical Character. 



]\[edium, strong, 
straight. 



Medium, 5 ft. 5 in., 
well formed, robust. 



Short, muscular, well 
developed, agile ; acute 
senses. Once a powerful 
nation, now greatly re- 
duced by war. 

Inferior physically. 
Very short ; badly 
formed. Low morally. 
Very small in number. 

Small. Rather high 
morally. 



Very short, well 
formed, not vigorous. 



Above medium. 
Nervous, stout, robust. 
Better developed than 
any other Guranian. 

iS[edium, active, 

graceful, not robust. 
Refined. 

Short and tall, both; 
robust, muscular, not 
enduring. High 
morally. 

Medium, robust. 



J 



DIET OF UACES A^D NATIONS 1>G1 



Peoples. 



Foods. 



Guarai/as . . Vegetable. 



Chi'iuitos . . !Maize, roots, rice, 
vec'etables. 



Yuracares . . \ Flesh, lish, much 
fruit, maize, mandioca, 
bananas. Gluttonous. 



Tupis . . . : Flesh, fish, human 
j flesh. Mamlioca, etc. 

Botocudos . . Chiefly animal. 



Coroados . . Chiefly vegetable ; 
sweet potatoes, maize, 
fruits, bananas, etc. 
Much flesh also. In- 
sects, vermin, etc. One 
principal meal. 

Quii'hua-9, or j Almost all vegetable. 
Peruvians Maize, pulse, potatoes, 

etc. 

C/iunchos . . ^lixed. 

Cho/ones . . . Dried meat, fish, 
maize, fruits, nuts ; 
I human flesh formerly. 



Paraijicaijans . Flesh and fish chiefly. 



Paiiijxis . . . Animal food, blood, 
mare's flesh. 



Physical Character. 



Tall, well formed, 
moral, high in quali- 
ties. 

Medium, robust. 

Rather high morally. 
Intelligent. 

Fine, Avell built, 
stronc. 



Medium, strong. 



Medium, s t r o n g, 
robust. 

Very short, robust. 



Medium, muscular, 
well formed, handsome. 



Tall, robust. 

Medium, strong, 
robust, pleasant, 
^Morally bad. Women 
old at thirty. 

M e d i u m, finely 
formed ; acute senses. 

Short, ill developed, 
muscular, coarse. 



262 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 


Peguanches . . 


Flesh, maize, water. 


Robust, vigorous ; 
white teeth. 


Araucanians 


Chiefly vegetable, 
flesh, blood. 


Medium, robust. 


Patagonians 


Animal food chiefly. 
Abstemious. 


Very tall ; strong, 
well formed; enduring. 


Fuegans . . . 


Animal food chiefly ; 
game, fish. 


Low, stunted, gentle. 
Many are degraded, 
dirty, and uncouth. 



Assamese 



Kocchis . 



Bodo-Kacharis , 



Khassias 



Kolarians 



Southern Asia, etc. 

Eice, boiled vege- Short, robust, 
tables, a little salt, and 
oil ; a little fish ; fer- 
mented liquor ; milk 
rarely used. The rich 
eat fish, sweet potatoes, 
beans, melons, etc. 

Buffaloes, goats, sheep. Short, 
pig, chicken, etc. ; fer- 
mented liquor. 



Rice, maize, millet, 
yams, etc. Various 
animals, pork, fowl, 
fish, etc. ; fermented 
liquor. 



Rice, maize, millet, 
potatoes ; fish or flesh 
daily ; milk rarely. 

Rice, various animals, 
maize, millet, beans, etc. ; 
rice beer. 



Fine, athletic, well 
formed. Quiet, cheer- 
ful, active, industrious. 
The Bodos and Dbimals 
have many good quali- 
ties ; few vices. 

Short, robust. 



Medium, robust. 



DIET OF RACES AND XxVTIOXS 2G3 



Peoples. 



Foods. 



Garos ... Largely animal, flesh 
(25" and 26° X. antlhlood. Kice, millet, 
lat.) arum, etc. 



Physical Character. 



Rather short, robust, 
muscular ; capable of 
jrroat exertions. 



Oraons ... I Rice, pulse, various 
flesh, especially pork. 

Paharias . . Maize, sorghum, sweet 

potatoes, plantains; pork, 
goats ; rice beer. 

Gowh ... Rice, millet, game, 
fish. 



Like the Kolarians. 
Very cheerful. 

Medium, slender, 
well formed. 



Short, 5 ft. 2 in. ; 
low qualities, but 
truthful ; unsteady. 



Khoruh 



Rice, dahl, beans, 
various flesh ; fer- 
mented liquors. 



Medium; very robust 
and enduring. 



BheeJs 



Neilgherries 



Maize, rice, many 
animals, wild fruits ; 
fermented liquors. 

Grain, ragi, occasional 
flesh ; milk. 



South Ragi, rice, curry, 

Dravidians pepper, etc. Two meals 

a day. The rich eat 

flesh, and some tribes 

! eat much flesh. Arrack 

: or palm wine. 

Tamulians . . j 

(Malabars, , 

Ceylon.) i 



Medium ; not very 
strong; cheerful. 



M e d i u m, well 
formed. The tribes 
vary greatly; most are 
short. 



Active, industrious. 
The Moors are said to 
be a fine race. 



264 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 


Turco-Tatar 


Horse flesh, rice, fowls. 


Strong, well made, 


Turanians 


macaroni, tea, among 


slender. Teeth white. 


No(jay Tartars 


the well - to - do. The 
poor eat meat pasties, 
macaroni, bread, millet, 
etc. 




Madagascar 






(Oceano-Melan- 






esian race.) 






Sakalavas . . 


Flesh, various vege- 


Above medium; well 


(500,000.) 


tables, pigs, etc. 


developed, strong, ath- 
letic, quick, lively, in- 
telligent. 


Betsileo . . . 




Large - boned, mus- 


(High mountain 




cular ; not energetic or 


region.) 




ambitious ; peaceful, 
agricultural. 


Banzanozano . 




Occupy a narrow 


(Tankay.) 




valley. Strong, robust. 
Many act as porters. 


Sihanika . . . 


Rice; fermented 


Occupy low, marshy 




liquor. 


country. Indolent, in- 
temperate. 


Bara .... 




Wild, suspicious ; 
robbers. 


Malagasees 


iSIeals at noon and sun- 


Mostly below medium. 


generally. 


set. JNIuch animal and 


Limbs small, well 


!Most races. 


vegetable food ; much 


formed, regular. Fine 


(Much mixed 


spirituous liquor. Strong 


regular white teeth. 


with Euro- 


condiments. Flesh 


Not strong ; easily 


peans, Arabs, 


largely eaten by all but 


fatigued. (But the 


and Negroes.) 


the poorest. These poor 


Hovas are robust. 




live on yams, manioc, 


active, finel}' formed.) 




sweet potato, and other 


Apathetic, indolent. 




roots. Rico is the staple. 


gluttonous, deceitful. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 2G5 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 




and is eaten with vege- 






tables, beef, or ponltry, 
shrimps, crayfish, many 
kinds of fruit. Maize, 






boiled or as bread. 






Monkeys, bt)ars, croco- 
diles, turtles are devoured 






greedily. 




Ipalaos Islands 


Bread fruit, vege- 


Above medium; 


(Caroline Archi- 
pelago.) 


tables, fish, yams, sweet 
potatoes, taro, bananas. 


equal physically to the 
best of their race. 



Palos 



cocoa - nuts, birds, eggs, 
turtles, shell-fish. Fer- 
mented bread - fruit a 
favourite dish. Water 
the ordinary drink. 
Palm wine occasional. 
On the Barrabee group 
dog's flesh much eaten. 



Yams, bananas, cocoa- 
nuts, fish, shell - fish, 
taro ; occasionally eggs, 
birds, pigs, goats ; cocoa- 
nut milk, palm wine. 



Strong, muscular, well 
made, " endowed with 
jrreat strength and 
agility." "The most 
brilliant white teeth." 



Polynesian Beef, rico, 

Mariannas brandy, whisky. 
(Modern.) 



etc. ; 



Tararoas . . Cocoa-nuts, bananas, 
yams, taro, bread-fruit, 
, fish, shell-fish, occasion- 
I ally hogs and fowls. 



Like the Ipalaos 
generally. Cheerful, 
friendly, hospitable in 
the extreme ; indus- 
trious, active, intelli- 
gent, strong, vigorous. 



jMedium ; robust, 
athletic, enduring. 
" Brilliantly white and 
superbly ranged teeth." 
Indolent ; intemperate. 



Rather slender ; 

strong, muscular. ]\Iore 
robust and stately than 
the Marshall Islanders. 



!66 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Ch amor res . 



Rculaks and 

Raleks 



Foods. 



Bread-fruit, rice, fish. 



Paudanus fniit, cocoa- 
nuts, yams, tare, fish, 
shell-fish ; bread-fruit on 
some islands ; gin much 
drunk. 



Physical Character. 



Higher classes very 
strong, symmetrical, 
rather tall. Lower 
classes less athletic, 
but strong and agile. 

Like the Ipalaos. 
Well proportioned, 
rather robust. Teeth 
white and regular. 



Red Indians, etc. 



Mohilians 



Choctaios 



Seminoles 



Shawanese 



Apaches , . . 
(New Mexico.) 



Maize and flesh. 



Flesh, fish, maize. 



Flesh of game, and, in 
scarcity, of rats, lizards, 
etc. Pinon - nuts and 
other fruits ; beef, mut- 
ton, horse flesh. 



Tall, finely formed, 
robust. Temperate, 

till enslaved by Euro- 
pean drink. Remark- 
ably swift on foot, and 
agile. 

Great power of en- 
durance, and force of 
character. Mild in 
disposition. 

Tall, 5 ft. 8 in. to 
5 ft. 10 in. Athletic, 
phlegmatic, fickle. 

Originally temperate ; 
corrupted and drunken 
on European spirits. 

Physical qualities like 
other tribes. Active, 
sensible, cheerful. 

Slender, wanting in 
muscular development. 
Robust, well formed, 
agile ; ferocious, cun- 
ning, cruel ; gluttonous. 



DIKT OF RACES AND NATIONS 267 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 


Narajub' . 


Game and many kinds 
of animals ; also maize, 
pumpkins, beans, etc. 


Nearly 6 ft. tall; 
are well proportioned, 
strong, active. 


Shoshones . . 


Flesh, fish, rabbits, 
rats, mice, insects, vari- 
ous vegetables. 


Not well devcdoped ; 
not tall ; morally l<>w. 


Bonakf^ . 


Roots, game, fish, rep- 
tiles, wild potato, apples, 
berries, acorn bread. 


Rather inferior ; 
below medium ; ill - 
looking, degraded, and 
cruel. 


Commanches 


Chieflyanimal, buflalo, 
pi non-nut. 


^'ery well developed ; 
5 ft. 10 in. ; robust, 
muscular, brave ; tem- 
perate. 


Pueblos . . . 

(New Mexico 

and Arizona.) 


Vegetable and animal, 
maize, deer, fowl, wheat, 
fruit, fish. 


Not well developed ; 
5 ft. But the Pimas 
are remarkably well 
formed ; tall, many 
over 6 ft. ; muscular ; 
teeth white. Temper- 
ate. 


Chippetcays . . 
(Far North.) 


Game, deer, buffalo, 
bear, hare, wild rice, 
roots, a little maize. 


Rather inferior as 
^Eoneans ; 5 ft. 10 in. 
Slender, not strong. 
Great walkers : very 
rieet ; indolent, cruel, 
timid. 


Knisteneaux 

(coast of 

Labrador, etc.) 

(A branch of 

the Algonquius.) 


Chiefly game ; fond 
of big feasts. 


"Well developed, 
nimble, active, peace- 
able. Hunters and 
fishers. 



268 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 


Foods. 


Physical Character. 


Pawnees . . . 


Maize, buffalo, beans, 
squashes, etc. 


Once powerful and 
warlike ; reduced by 
smallpox and whisky. 
Above medium height ; 
teeth well ranged ; 
moral character de- 
graded by traders, etc. 


Dakotas . . . 
(Sioux.) 


Game, fish, maize, 
wild rice, maple sugar, 
roots ; milk a rarity. No 
regular meals. 


Robust, well formed, 
medium height, brave, 
truthful. 


Osages . . . 


Buffalo, maize, beans, 
pumpkins, wild j)lums. 


Tall, of great physical 
strength, brave ; now 
peaceable. 


Hidatsas . . 


Buffalo, bear, beaver, 
fish, turtles, maize, 
beans, squashes ; for- 
merly maize a staple 
food, now flour. 


Tall, muscular, well 
formed ; character good. 


Klamaths . . 


Fish, flesh, roots, 
berries, acorns. 


Tall, muscular, well 
formed ; moral char- 
acter low. 


Haidaks . . . 


Fish, oil, birds, berries, 
inner bark ; intoxicants 
to excess now. 


Well developed, tall ; 
women athletic; char- 
acter good before civil- 
isation, very bad after. 


Mandans 


Formerly almost all 
animal, now maize, 
beans, melons, etc., be- 
sides flesh. 


Medium, vigorous, 
robust. 


Haidas . . . 


Fish, flesh, oil, berries, 
bark, etc. 


Tall, well formed. 


Nootkas . . 


Fish, etc.; roots. 


Robust, well formed. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 261) 



Peoples. 



NisquaUis . 
Salish 
Chinools 
TacuUis . 
Kut chins 

Tldinkeets . 
Eskimo . 

Karalits . 

Kimiago-'^ 
Aleuts 

Xamollos 

Aeneo- 
Marmians 

Menr/wes . 



Foods. 



Game, fish, roots, 
berries. 

Fish, Hesh, roots. 



Fish, flesh, nuts, fruits, 
roots, berries. 

[ Fish, oil, fat, putrid 
meat, roots, berries. 

Deer, bear, fish. 



Halibuts, herrings, oil, 
bear, deer. Two meals, 
noon and evening. 

Fat, oil, fish, flesh, 
birds, cranberries, etc. ; 
gluttonous. 

Reindeer, seals, birds, 
walrus, fish, oil. 

Flesh, fish, blubber, 
roots, berries. 

Flesh, fish. 



Flesh, fish, seaweed. 

Maize ; captured ani- 
mals. 



Venison, game, chiefly 
maize, squashes, ground- 
nuts, berries, maple tea. 



Physical Character. 



Short, strong. 



Medium to tall, well 
built, muscular. 

Small ; morally low. 



Tall, well formed. 



Medium, well formed, 
high morally, honest, 
clean. 

Medium ; far superior 
to Eskimo ; robust. 



Small, badly pro- 
portioned, robust; teeth 
well ranged. 

Very small, below 
5 ft.; very active and 
strong, well built. 

Medium. 



Robust, active, ill 
formed. 

Very active ; runners. 

Stalwart, muscular, 
fleet, acute of sense, 
enduring, brave, cruel. 

Well developed, fine 
in stature, hardy^ 
robust. 



270 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Htiroiis 



Ahjonqidns . 

Narrangansetts 
AOenaques . . 



Micmacs . 
(Xova Scotia.) 



Foods. 



Physical Character. 



Elk, beaver, bear, Robust, tall, well 
porcupine, hare, geese, made, agile, fleet ; Avere 
ducks, tish ; maize the exceedingly cruel, and 
staple. " When they cannibals, 
started out for the 
enemy's country, they 
carried a bag of corn 
meal, and roasted maize 
grain for their sub- t 
sistence." 



Maize the national dish. 
Flesh, fi.sh, Avalnuts, 
chestnuts, acorns. 



Maize, chestnuts, game, 
fish. 

Flesh, fish, maize. Xo 
regular meal-hours. 



Game, fish, dogs, rep- 
tiles, maize, ground-nuts, 
acorns, roots, dried corn ; 
soup the drink. 



Lenapes or Dela- \ Flesh, maize, roots, 
I beans, etc. ; water. Xo 
j regular meal-time. 

I Maize, fish, flesh ; 
I Avater. 



leaves. 



Poiohattans 



Tuscaroras 



Flesh and maize, wild 
fruits, peas, potatoes. 



Tall, well developed, 
not very muscular, 
enduring, coarse, good 
teeth ; fiendishly cruel, 
gluttonous, licentious. 

Like the Algonquins 
physically. 

]\Iedium, robust, 
healthy ; no deformed, 
deaf, dumb, etc.; white 
teeth ; acute senses ; 
cruel, cunning. 

Tall, coarse, glutton- 
ous. 



Above medium; nim- 
ble, well proportioned ; 
intensely cruel. 

Tall, Avell formed, 
robust, vivacious, 
spirited. 

Tall, well formed, 
agile, rather strong; 
extremely cruel. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 271 



Peoples. 



Natchez 



Foods. 



Hominy (maize) pan- 
cakes, cliestnuts, beans, 
various animals. 



Physical Character. 



Tall, iinely propor- 
tioned. 



South Seas, ArsTRALAsiA, etc. 



Tall itians 



Marque sans 



Nukahivas . 



Pomotoos 



Bread-fruit (staple) is by 
all classes considered the 
stairoflife. Sweet potato, 
taro, vi or Brazilian plum, 
jambo apple ; fish, crabs, 
etc., much eaten. Hogs 
a luxury, dog's flesh 
commoner. No regular 
meal-time. Principal 

meal in evening. A 
mild intoxicant. 

Bread - fruit, cocoa - 
nuts, bananas, sweet 
potatoes, cucumbers, 

cresses, ginger. Pork, 
chicken, fish ; water, 
sea - water ; popoi (fer- 
mented bread - fruit). 
Cannibal feasts. 



Bread-fruit, 
bananas, yams, 
potatoes, fish. 
Cannibal feasts. 



popoi, 
sweet 
kava. 



Vegetable; Hesli rarely; 
taro and cocoa - nuts, 
bread - fruit, bananas, 
sugar-cane ; fish, shell- 
fish. 



Strong, tall, vigorous, 
athletic ; happy, open, 
candid, merry, sociable ; 
women graceful. 



Tall, fine, muscular, 
gentle, open ; excellent 
teeth. 



Robust, tall, finely 
formed in the upper 
class, open, animated. 
Lower class shorter, but 
pleasing. Teeth most 
beautiful ; senses most 
acute. 



272 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Peoples. 



Waihiis 



Tongas 



Rotumas 



Samoans . 



Maoris 



Foods. 



Formerly sweet pota- 
toes, taro, yams, plan- 
tains, fish, birds' eggs. 
Flesh scarce. 



Bread - fruit (staple), 
plantains, yams, cocoa- 
nuts, fish, shell - fish, 
sugar-cane, ti-root. Hogs, 
fowls, and turtles for 
the chiefs. IMeals at 
about one and six — no 
breakfast. 



Bread-fruit, yams, 
bananas, cocoa-nut, fish. 



Bread-fruit, fermented 
bread - fruit, bananas, 
cocoa-nuts, taro, yams, 
fish, hogs, fowls. Vege- 
table food sufficient to 
meet all their wants. 
Meals twice a day. 



Formerly almost ex- 
clusively vegetable and 
fish. Dogs, rats, sweet 
potatoes, roots, seals, 
grubs ; water. 



Physical Character. 



Medium ; slender, 
well made ; straight 
teeth ; friendly, hospit- 
able, pleasant. For- 
merly cannibal. 

Remarkably well 
formed, strong, vigor- 
ous, muscular, agree- 
able, animated, some 
"absolute models of 
perfect figures," some 
ungainly ; peaceable, 
affectionate, brave, in- 
genious, persevering ; 
intellect ejood. 



Were well propor- 
tioned, full of life and 
gaiety, friendly, noisy, 
fickle, indolent ; ex- 
cellent teeth. 



Were remarkably well 
developed, tall (5 ft. 
10 in.), stalwart, robust, 
with pleasing features. 
Moral character good, 
tender to children, mild, 
hospitable, indolent. 



Tall, well formed, 
muscular, vigorous, 
high in morals and 
intellect, generous, in- 
dolent, irritable, cruel. 
\Yomen short and 
coarse-looking. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 273 



Peoples. 



Hawaiians 



Foods. 



Fish, bread-fruit, taro, 
yams, sweet potatoes, 
cocoa - nuts, plantains, 
sugar - cane, fern - root, 
locusts. Richer classes, 
hogs and dogs. Fer- 
mented bread. Fruit 
much esteemed. "Water 
the ordinary drink. 



Physical Character. 



Above medium ; well 
formed, muscular ; ex- 
cellent teeth. Many of 
lower classes short and 
bow - legged. Affec- 
tionate, hospitable, 
kind to children. In- 
tellect, average. 



Mr. Featherman contributes the followino- observa- 
tious to the volume dealing with the Turkish and 
Turanian races generally : — 

The Turanian stock, with the exception of the 
Chinese and Japanese, has been " deficient in the 
loftier flio'hts of the imaojination, and its reasonino; 
powers are incapable of grasping abstract principles 
and speculative ideas. Its mode of thinking is a dull, 
unvaried routine." . . . 

" Its mighty legions overran the most beautiful 
parts of the civilised world, and humbled the proudest 
and most powerful nations, marking its track with fire 
and sword, and leavino- nothino; behind but death and 
utter desolation." . . . Now, " the Turanians, who were 
the universal tyrants and oppressors, who seem to 
have been born to command, crawl in the dust before 
that mighty spirit which science has evoked, and which 
is destined to rule and regenerate mankind." 

The Turanian stock is said to have originally 
developed in Siam, or at least in Southern China. 

Osmanli, the Turks, originally inhabited the neigh- 
bourhood of the Altai Mountains, afterwards the strip 
IS 



274 STRENGTH AND DIET 

between the desert of Khiva and the Caspian. They 
were remarkable for personal strength and valour. 

They were originally pure Turanians, but are now 
exceedingly mixed. Georgian, Circassian, Greek, Arab, 
Jew stock became intermixed. 

The semi-Iranian or Aramean Osmanli, by Circassian, 
Georgian, or Greek women, "exhibit perhaps the highest 
perfection of manly beauty, united w^ith a healthy and 
vifforous constitution, that the world has ever seen." 
The women are said to be the loveliest of their sex. 

The unmixed Turanian Turk is rather short, 
compact, well built, with low forehead, stupid, 
dilatory. While they were still w^andering hordes of 
shepherd warriors, they w^ere brave in the field, faithful, 
and generous. But when they became mighty con- 
querors, and the most powerful empires yielded 
submission to their warlike spirit, they became 
intoxicated with prosperity ; they were arrogant in 
their pretensions, cruel and ferocious to those who 
excited their jealousy. With the Koran as all- 
sufficient, they remained ignorant. They exercised 
absolute control over the conquered races and subject 
classes. Then the canker of degeneracy attacked 
them. 

The Osmanli have still, however, some excellent 
qualities ; they are generally free from crime, devoted 
to parents and children, temperate and frugal, 
religious. The pure Turk is unintellectual, illogical, 
matter-of-fact, ftitalistic. Those of mixed blood are 
much more intelligent. 



Looking back over the ground traversed, we see 
that in all climates a hio-h deoree of health and 



DIET OF RACES A\I) NATIONS 275 

.strength may be attained by a tribe living on a 
long-customary diet, whether mainly Hesh, or mixed, 
or purely vegetable. 

The columns below exhibit a list of tribes and 
communities which were clearly noted in recent times 
as robust : the first column is composed of large flesh- 
eaters ; the second of vegetarians, or mixed feeders 
whose diet has only a little addition of flesh or fish. 

I wish to state very emphatically that the list is 
neither exact nor complete, — cannot be so with present 
information, but I have endeavoured to hold the 
balance even, and believe the distinct preponderance 
of one of the scales represents the truth, 

I may observe that a very large number of African 
tribes, and the hundred and sixty peoples of India who 
speak difl*erent languages, are not included. These are 
mostly non-carnivorous. 



Flesh- Eating. 




Pradicalltj Veijetana?i 




British navvies. 


Tall. 


Scotch, Irish. 


Tall 


Spanish miners. 




Cornish. 




Laplanders. 


Short. 


Northumbrians. 


Tall 


Kohishin Montenegrins. 


Tall. 


Northern Italy. 




Koreans (some). 


Tall. 


Calabrian herdsmen. 




Kirghiz Kozaks. 




Roman Campaj^'na. 




Chin Hills Tartars. 




Piedmontesp. 




British Cohimbians. 




Neapolitan lazaroni. 


Tall 


Cree Indians. 




Spaniards. 




Southern Red Indians (pa 


■tly). 


Portuguese water-carriers. 






Tall. 


Swiss of Berne. 




Bedouin Wahabees (some) 




Swiss woodmen. 




Ar.ibs of the Hedjaz 


(mixed 


Swiss mountaineers. 


Tall. 


diet). 




Bavarian Highlanders. 




l)ruses (some). 




Tyrolese wood-cutters. 




Mnurs (some). 




Carpathian Poles. 




Egypto-Libyans (ancient). 




Carpathian Hungarians. 





276 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Flefh-Eating. 

Tcheromies (mixed diet). 
Livonians (mixed diet, vegetable 

and lish). 
Crim-Tatars (mixed diet). 
Uashkirs. 
Tatar Toorkies. 
Chiapans, etc. 
Mayas (mixed diet). 
Aztecs. 
Mosquitos. 

Arawaks (mixed diet). 
Orinocos. 
Moxos. 
Guracares. 
Botucudos. 

Clmnchos (mixed diet). Tall. 

Cliolones. 
Peguanches. 
Araucanians (some). 
Patagonians. 
Bodo-Kacharis. 
Khassias. 
Garos. 
Oraons. 

Khonds (chiefly vegetable). 
Sakalavas. Rather tall. 

Ipalaos (some). Rather tall. 

Palos (some). 
Polynesian ]Mariannes. 
i\Iobilians (mixed diet). 
Choctaws (mixed diet). 
Seminoles (mixed diet). Tall. 

Shavvanese (mixed diet). 
Navajos (mixed diet). Tall. 

Commanches. Tall. 

Pimas (mixed diet). Tall. 

l)akotas. 

Usages (mixed diet). Tall. 

Hidatsas. Tall. 

Klamaths (mixed diet). Tall. 

Haidas. Tall. 

I^'ootkas. 
Salish. 
Thlinkeets. 



Pniff icidJn Veijf'tarian. 

Polish soldiers (19th century). 
Szeklers. 

jNIagyars. Tall. 

Swedes of Dalecarlia, etc. Tall. 
Far north of Sweden, Haparanda. 
Norwegians in parts. 
Greek boatmen, etc. 
Turkish labourers. 
Turkish soldiers. 

Constantinople and Smyrna 
porters, etc. Tall. 

Chinese country people. Tall. 

Japanese. Short. 

Madras messengers, etc. 
Sikhs. 

Ilimalayans. 

Tuarick (Sahara). Tall 

Jennans, Central Africa. 
Arabs, N. Africa. 
Suakim drivers. 

Kaffirs (some tribes). Tall 

Southern Red Indians (partly). 

Tall. 
Tobasco Indians. 
jNIexican Indians. 
Peruvians. 
Opon Indians. 
Italians of Argentina. 
Canary Islanders. 
Friendly Islanders. 
Maoris. 

Malays in some parts. 
Bedouin Wahabees (some). 
Druses (some). 
Kanoos. 
Moors (some). 
Barbary Bedouins. 
Egyptian Arabs. 



Yezidees. 




Osmanli. 




Tavestar Finns. 


Rather tall. 


Mixed INIagyars. 


Tall. 


Chichemics. 


Tall. 


Zajwtecos. 





II 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 277 



Flesh-Eat inij. 




Praiticalhj Veij 


etarian. 


Karalits. 




Gayanos. 




Aloutp. 




Caraibo (mixed). 


Rather tall 


Aeneo-Maronians. 


Tall. 


Chiquitos. 




Mangroes. 




Peruvians. 




Huron s. 


Tall. 


Araucanians (some). 




Abenaques (mixed diet). 




Assamese. 




Powhattaus (mixed diet). 


Tall. 


Kolarians. 




Maoris (mixed diet). 


Tall. 


Ipalaos. 
Palos (some). 
Tararoas. 


Kathf-r tall 






Chamorres. 


Some tall 






Tahitians. 


Tall 






Marquesans. 


Tall 






Nukahivas. 


Tall 






Tongas. 








Samoans. 


Tall 






Maoris. 


Tall 



The euumemtioii of these tribes shows that at 
least sixty-six living ou a mixed diet, or chiefly 
flesh, were robust, and of these nineteen were tall ; 
and that seventy-six living ou a practically vege- 
tarian diet (including in many cases animal products) 
were robust, and of these twenty-one were tall. Height 
is apparently little aftected by the kind of diet, if it is 
suflieient in quantity and nutritious in (juality. 

Strength is attainable with a dietary almost all 
flesh, or mixed, or all vegetable. But, on the whole, 
strenoth is more common and 2;reater amono; mixed 
than among carnivorous feeders, and more common 
and greater among certain classes of vegetarians thau 
among flesh or mixed feeders. 

These results appear in view of the whole array 
of facts which have been presented, but they appear 
also from a comparison of the strength, height, etc., 
of persons living on diflerent dietaries in the same 
province or community. 



278 STRENGTH AND DIET 

It will be found that, cceteris lyarihus, any set of 
healthy persons in a locality living on a rightly chosen 
vegetable diet surpasses in strength and well-being a 
set in equal conditions living largely on Hesh. Rather 
copious testimony to the same effect from athletics 
will be adduced later. 

Further, the most remarkable instances of any 
class possessing extreme strength or endurance are 
found among the plant - eaters. No doubt, on the 
other hand, there are millions of vegetarians, like the 
poor cultivators of parts of India, who are weak, but 
these are ])adly nourished, owing to poverty, or weak- 
ened by malaria and other cherished infections. 

Let us look at the composition of the diets which 
produce very great strength and health in nations or 
classes — 

Very Strong. Diet. 

Ancient Persian soldiers . Bread, vegetables, water. 

Egyptian pyramid builders. Lentils, bread, etc. 

Judas Maccabaeus and his Vegetables, bread, etc. 

army. 

Travellers in the East, on) Bread, figs, or raisins, parched corn, 

long journeys. / water. 

Homeric heroes, traditional. Roast beef, etc. 

Athletic Greece . . Maize, vegetables, oil, etc. 

Roman soldiers . . Corn with lard, etc. 

Saracens .... Rice, fruits, milk, barley bread. 

Ancient Egyptians . . Spelt bread, fish, wine, etc. 

Many early Christian .saints. Bread, fruit, vegetables, nuts. 

Ancient Britons (see Acorns, berries, roots, herbs, water. 

Plutarch, Goldsmith). 

Ancient Gaulish tribes . Nut bread, milk, herbs, berries. 

Earliest Greeks . . Barley, acorns, beech-nuts, etc. 

Irish .... Potatoes, buttermilk ; earlier — vege- 
tables, milk, meal, mushrooms. 

Scotch .... Oatmeal, buttermilk, vegetables, some- 
times flesh. 



DIET OF RACES AND NATIONS 279 

Very Strong. Diet. 

Lancashire and Yorkshire Hasty pudding, oatcake, water, etc. 

labourers. 
Scottish fisher folk . . Porridge, fish, etc. 

Cornish miners . . Potatoes, bread, etc. 

Orkney men . . INIainly vegetarian ; porridge, potatoes, 

milk, fish. 
Porters, etc. (Glasgow?) . Potatoes, etc., buttermilk. 
Piedmontese (Marseilles) . Chiefiy vegetarian formerly ; maize, 

etc. 
Northern Italians, formerly ^laize, fruit, vegetables, macaroni, 

eggs, bread. 
Certain districts of Italy . Chestnut bread, etc. 
Other parts of Italy . . Maize, beans, nuts, etc. 
Spanish labourers and) Peas, melons, bread, batatas, tomatoes, 

soldiers. ) egg-plant, fish. 

Spanish miners . . Flesh, bread, fruit, vegetables, oil, 

potatoes. 
Portuguese water-carriers . Bread, olla podrida, chestnuts, fruit. 
Swiss woodmen . . Cooked Hour, bread, butter, salt, water. 

Bavarian highlanders . Grain, pulse, salads, vegetables, fruit, 

milk. 
Tyrolese wood-cutters . Cooked Hour, water, butter, salt, and 

pork. 
Polish and Hungarian Oatmeal, bread, and potatoes. 

peasants. 
Magyar peasants . . Potatoes, bread, a little flesh, and 

wine. 
Saatersdal Norwegians . Chiefly vegetables or grain, alcohol. 
Dalecarlian Swedes . . Grain, milk, cheese, etc. ; probably 

fish also. 
Laplanders (some) . . Flesh, blood, barley, coffee, alcohol. 
Finns (some) . . . Rye, barley, potatoes, fruit. 
Russian grenadiers . . 8 lb. black bread, 4 lb. oil, 1 lb. sail, 

for eight days. 
Russian labourers at a Rye bread, garlicks, etc. 

port. 
Siberian soldiers . . Rye bread, soup. 
Greek boatmen . . Black rye or wheat bread, raisins or 

figs, etc. 
Turkish soldiers . . Bread, mutton, beans, rice, butter, 

salt. 
Part of Ottoman army . Vegetarian generally, water-drinkers. 
Jioatnien, etc., at Constan-) Bread, cucumbers, cherries, figs, dates, 
tinople. / or other fruit ; a little fish. 



280 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Very Strong. 

Porters at Smyrna . 
Kolashin (Montenegro) 
Monks of Cyprus 
Chinese labourers (country) 



Korean countrymen (some) 

Japanese soldiers 

Samurai .... 

Tatars of the Chin Hills . 

Madras messengers . 

Himalayans 

Sikhs .... 

Armenian porters 

Jenna people (Central 

Africa). 
Arab tribes in North Africa. 

[Endurance, health, and 

agility extraordinary.] 
Some native races of South 

Africa. 
Tobasco Indians (Mexico) . 
Mexican Indians and miners 
Chilian labourers (from\ 

Darwin). / 

Ya(|uil miners (from Darwin) 
Rio Salada Spaniards 
Bolivian troopers 
Brazil slaves 
Congo slaves (Rio) . 
Canary Islands labourers 
Opon Indians . 

Friendly Islanders . 
Ipalaos Islanders 



Comanches (Red Indians) 
Osages (Red Indians) 



Diet. 

Vegetable ; grain or fruit. 

Maize, milk, oil, onions, mutton. 

Beans and barley bread, flesh rarely. 

Rice, vegetables ; sometimes a little 
fish or flesh. In other parts, rice, 
millet, sweet potatoes, beans, etc. 

Rice, eggs, dried fish, flesh ; or rice, 
beans, spice, vinegar, radishes ; occa- 
sional flesh. 

Rice, 36 oz., vegetables, some fish. 
Barley and beans at times. 

Unhulled rice chiefly, some fish or eggs, 
dried fruit, tea ; cool, not cold, water. 

Flesh, alcohol, etc. 

Boiled rice, etc. 

Rice, etc. 

Vegetarian chiefly ; wheat flour. 

Bread, olives, cheese, onions, salad. 

Chiefly yams and maize. 

Dates, milk, etc. 



Millet, sour milk, etc. 

Maize, sugar, etc. 

jMaize, sugar, omelets, vegetables. 

Two small loaves, sixteen figs, boiled 
beans, ro;isted wheat. 

Boiled beans and bread. 

Vegetarian. 

Maize, cocoa, water. 

Rice, fruit, bread, roots. 

Vegetarian. 

Coarse vegetables, fruit, grain. 

JMaize, sugar-cane, game, bananas, bread- 
fruit, mangoes, oranges. 

Bread-fruit, potatoes, taro, fruit, fish. 

Bread-fruit, vegetables, fish, yams, 
potatoes, taro, bananas, cocoa-nuts, 
birds, eggs, turtles, etc. 

Animal chiefly ; buffalo, pinon-nut, etc. 

Buffalo, maize, beans, pumpkins, wild 
plums. 



« 



1)1 KT OF IJACES AND NATIONS 281 

Tlie result of this enuincratiuii goes much further 
tliaii 1 had expected. It appears that, of seventy-two 
chisses of persons who have shown exceptional strength, 
endurance, and health, sixty-one were practically 
vegetarian, and only thirteen more or less, mostly 
less, carnivorous. Excluding Homeric heroes, only five 
were large eaters of fiesh or fish. So that we may, I 
think, conclude safely that the very large majority of 
the world's best examples of physical development 
have been practically vegetarian. Proljably the highest 
degree of national activity in the modern world is 
shown by the Japanese, with a diet of whole rice, beans, 
vegetables, and some fish, and with water or weak, 
milkless tea for drink ; and the highest degree of bodily 
capacity for labour may have been reached by Darwin's 
Chilian miners, with a diet of bread and boiled beans, 
or the " seeds of leguminos£e."^^° Many other classes or 
races, living on rice, bread, and vegetables or fruit, or 
on rice and beans, or lentils and vegetables, or on maize, 
oil, and vegetables or fruit, or on potatoes, milk, and 
vegetables, or similar diets, with well-proportioned 
quantities, have nearly approached the two named. A 
diet of parched corn and dates or other fruit, and a 
little oil or lard, seems to be remarkably well fitted for 
feats of long exertion, such as severe marches. Barley, 
millet, maize, rye, oats, and especially rice, seem each 
capable of sustaining a population in high health with 
little additional nutriment, but oil of some kind 
(or animal fat) is clearly of much value, or even 
necessary, especially in cold climates. It is important 
to remember that most of the races which maintain 
their powers on rice eat the unhulled grain, which 
contains more materials of value to the constitution 



282 STRENGTH AND DIET 

than the poUshed rice of Europe. Nuts, especially 
chestnuts, seem to form a very important part of the 
diet of some of the strongest peasantry in Southern 
Europe, and, considering their nutritive qualities, are 
insufficiently appreciated. 

I have not in the above summary included either 
athletics or mental strength and endurance, but intend 
to refer to these subjects in separate chapters. 



11 



CHAPTER VII 

Diet of Communities ; including Armies, Religious 
Sects, Workhouses, and Prisons 

There is much of interest in the records of the past 
rehiting to the diets of separate communities, such as 
Christian and Buddhist sects and various orders of 
monks, also of soldiers in the field, and of classes 
engaged in specially laborious work. 

It will not be necessary to give details of the fare 
which was usual in the navy, in jails, hospitals, prisons, 
and workhouses, but the main dietaries of soldiers in 
several countries will be given, as showing the articles 
and amounts agreed upon by authorities in the last half of 
the nineteenth century as most important for strength 
and activity. They are based, I think, upon considera- 
tions which, with fresh knowledge, require some modi- 
fication, though, no doubt, they go very far in securing 
efficiency in time of war. 

Recent ideas of what is most conducive to health 
are in several respects far from being identical with the 
hypotheses of fifty years ago, but those hypotheses 
have still a tight hold on practice. The value of wine, 
spirits, and beer has been proved to be rather on the 
side of the enemy, and the most efficient officers, 
imitating: Ca3sar, discourasfe the use of alcohol in 
the field-; the allowance of flesh is reduced, and 



•284 STRENGTH AND DIET 

fresh vegetables or lime juice are considered indis- 
pensable. 

Dietaries of armies, navies, prisons, workhouses, 
and hospitals a century ago included much alcohol and 
Hesh, and much strong medicine. 

At present the tables still include in many cases a 
large amount of tlesh, but less than formerly, while at 
the same time the consumption of tlesh and of alcohol 
has largely increased in the general population. 

Signs are not wanting that the astonishing power 
of sustaining long campaigns shown by the Komans 
and by the men under Cyrus, Gustavus Vasa, and 
others, and especially now by the Japanese, will cause 
inquiry to be made as to the possibility of increasing 
the efficiency of land and sea forces by a reconstruction 
of dietaries on modern scientific lines. 

Religious societies claim our first attention, for they 
have the strongest influence on their members. 

There is no community more widespread, and none 
more tenacious of its customs, whatever the nation 
among which it dwells, than the Hebrew race. 

The Jews have for thousands of years lived 
on a mixed diet of bread, lentils, dairy produce, 
beans, and other vegetables, honey, fruit, flesh, and 
fish. They have thriven remarkably, or at least held 
their ground, in almost every country and climate. 
The richer Jews have been large flesh-eaters, and 
iiltogether luxurious ; the poorer have eaten compara- 
tively little flesh, and exercised great discrimination 
in their choice of a nourishing diet. They do not 
generally poison themselves with alcoholic or other 
unsuitable stuff, like the majority of their less anciently 
civilised neighbours. The poorer classes, but not the 



DIET OF COMMUNITIES 285 

rich, maintain the " natural increase of population." 
The same tendency is seen in most luxurious societies. 
The Es,se7ies have been alluded to in Chapter lY. 
The Carthusians of the Grande Chartreuse, number- 
ing eighty, lived on bread, omelette, thin soup, vege- 
tables, prunes, rice, and a little wine or liqueur. Al)Out 
twenty other Carthusian houses exist in Europe. 

FacJionians. — The 1400 monks who followed 
Pachonius lived on bread, water, oil, occasional fruit 
and vegetables, and salt. Later there were 7000 
Pachonians, and in the fifth century they were com- 
puted at 100,000. 

The Benedictines had two meals a day, two cooked 
dishes, and one of fruit and vegetables. 

The Trappists live entirely on vegetables, bread, 
salad, cheese, fruit, and water. Rarely they are allowed 
a small quantity of ale. On fast days the diet is 
further restricted. All visitors to Oelenberg testify 
to the excellent appearance of the monks, who are 
seldom ill, and whose average longevity is high. The 
institution has lasted 810 years. The monks rise at 
2 a.m., and spend the day in alternate work and 
prayer. They have many sorts of handicraft, and 
they work diligently in the fields. The priests also 
do manual work. They retire to rest between 7 and 
8 p.m.^ 

At the Trappist Monastery of Mount Melleray, 
Cappoquin, Co. Waterford, Ireland, the monks eat 
uothino- but bread and veo-etables and a little fish, 
and drink nothing but skim-milk and water. They 
have two meals, sometimes only one. They rise daily 
at 2 a.m., and are occupied till 8 p.m. Some of the 
monks are very old men.' 



'286 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The physician to the monastery of Grande Trappe 
met with no case, during twenty-seven years, of 
apoplexy, aneurism, gout, cancer, or epidemic disease. 
This is an exceedingly noteworthy experience. 

Another account of the Trappist diet gave the 
following as the usual fare: — 17^ oz. black bread, 
17|- oz. beer, two plates of vegetable soup, one plate 
of greens. They have three meals a day.^ 

Thcosojyhists. — The Rev. James Clark, at the 
annual meeting of the Vegetarian Society on October 
12, 1902, said he had recently found in America that 
the Theosophists were vegetarians, also the Seventh 
Day Adventists, a l)ody of much energy, possessing a 
sanatorium in Michigan, where doctors, nurses, and 
patients, comprising a thousand persons, lived accord- 
ing to this principle. They numbered thousands in 
the States.'* 

Salvation Army. — Many of the officers, including 
the illustrious General, are wholly, or almost wholly, 
vegetarian. Their unusual activity of body and mind 
gives proof of the sufficiency of the fare to produce the 
highest health even in a depressing environment. In 
an Inebriates' Home, where the Lady Superior and 
nurses adopted the diet very reluctantly, and induced 
the patients also to become vegetarian, the change 
has been remarkably successful, and has conduced 
greatly to comfort, quietness, and health. 

The Douhhohors, a Russian community, which has 
existed for about a hundred years, with the tenets of 
primitive Christians, and the quiet practice of a simple, 
God - revering life, have given a very interesting 
proof of their powers of colonisation in the British 
dominions since their emigration to Canada at the end 



II 



DIET OF COMMl NITIES 287 

of last century. Expelled from Russia, they were 
helped to emigrate by English friends. In about 
two years they were independent cultivators, working 
heartily under new conditions in a new climate, free 
from debt, and able to tell their supporters that 
they were prospering on the crops for which the 
women had tilled the land, harnessed to the ploughs 
like horses. The Canadian Doukhobors number 
nearly 7000. 

" In physique, the Doukhobor is a vindication of 
plain living and high thinking. In spite of vegetarian 
food and general hardship, . . . the Russian peasants 
are a sturdy, strongly built people, many of them 
nearer seven than six feet in heisfht.^ 

The representative of the High Commissioner of 
Canada wrote, about two years after the migration : 
" These people are perhaps the most excellent settlers 
in the whole of the North- West Territory. For so 
young a settlement, the contented and joyous expres- 
sion of the people w^as remarkable, and this I attribute 
to the energy and perseverance of the men and the 
excellent housekeeping qualities of the women." In 
1901 the Minister of Justice said, " Not a single offence 
has been committed by the Doukhobors." 

Since 1893 the brotherhood has owned property as 
it were in common, or rather, has freshly divided up 
the acquisitions of flxmilies, when inequality became 
sufficiently marked. 

One writes : " When we beuan our communal life 
in 1894, we felt ourselves quite other men, as if we 
had been born afresh into God's world. Even the 
most decrepit of old men took to working with the 
rest." It is stated that these unsophisticated people 



288 STRENGTH AND DIET 

manifest Id all their practical proceedings the most 
perfect exactitude of organisation. 

The Canadian newspapers describe them as a fine- 
looking set, with honest faces and stalwart frames. 
The children looked the perfect picture of health. An 
old man of eighty-five was as active and happy as a 
boy. Disease is rarely known among them, said Mr. 
Blow, a well - known Canadian journalist. There is 
every appearance of comfort, happiness, and prosperity,*" 
The most strikino- characteristic of the immiorants 
was the bright, kindly sparkle of their eyes, which 
Cjuickly wins confidence in their character. All their 
habits show that they have keen minds. They are 
particularly clean, industrious, frugal, and moral. 
They are ready to help in any work, and made 
the ship's voyage almost a holiday time for the crew. 
They are kind to animals, and they do not eat flesh. 
They are fine agriculturists ; wherever they have been 
left alone for a short time they have prospered, making 
the wilderness smile with cultivation. 

There is much more of an almost marvellous char- 
acter in the history, sufferings, and heroism of this 
community, for which I must refer to the small 
volumes published by Mr. Thomas Laurie and by Mr. 
Tchertkoff, of the Free Age Press, Christchurch, Hamp- 
shire. 

The Eden Colony, near Berlin, has been described 
by Mr. William Harrison. The sight of the beautiful 
houses in the different allotments, mutual co-operative 
interest in one and all, the fruit and herbs and garden 
foods, produced a deep sense of gladness and hopeful- 
ness, prospectively, of a general widespread return to 
the land as the most practical way of redeeming the 




DIET OF COMMUNITIES 289 

soil to its (jiod-appoiiitcd purpose. All the colouists 
[vegetarian] seemed happy, toiling in the unselfish 
spirit of brotherhood, rejoicing and sympathising to- 
gether. There are about 105 persons in the colony, 
40 children, who are very healthy, beautiful in com- 
plexion, and exceedingly lively, kind and pleasant 
with each other." 

Soldieo'S. — The traditional fare of the Homeric heroes 
has been already alluded to in Chapter IV. Athenseus 
observes that their meat was chiefly roast beef. In 
al)0ut the third century the Roman infantry received 
wheat, and the cavalry barley and wheat. The Romans 
ground and baked their corn, and smeared their bread 
with lard. 

Froissart says that the Scotch fighting men in old 
times had boiled flesh in skins, a bag of meal, and a 
plate of iron, on which they made cakes. ^ 

The Turkish soldier, about 1590, carried powdered 
meat, of which he took a little in warm water. Rice 
was his principal stay, bread was eaten sparingly, and 
he drank no wine. 

In Queen Elizabeth's time, the soldiers ate corn, 
bread, beef, and wine ; herrings and other salt fish, salt 
flesh, especially beef and bacon, cheese, butter, almonds, 
chestnuts, and hazelnuts ; vinegar, honey, oil, beer, 
malt, and poultry. 

According to Froissart, the food of the soldiers in 
the War of the Roses was — flesh 2 11)., bread 1 lb., 
a pint of wine. 

In 1G70 the soldiers' allowance was, in the field, 
2 lb. of bread and Ij lb. of flesh, or an equal weight of 
cheese, and one bottle of wine or two of beer. 

In Portugal, in 1808, the Duke of Wellinoton says, 
19 



290 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" The rations will consist of 1 lb. of bread or biscuit, and 
1 lb. of meat, salt or fresh. When bread cannot be 
delivered to the troops, they shall have 2 lb. of beef 
for their ration." 

The food of the army of the United States Dr. 
Yorke Davies considers far and away the best for making 
physically powerful soldiers : 20 oz. flesh, 18 oz. bread, 
16 oz. potatoes; remainder, peas, rice, sugar, coffee, 
salt.' 

In 1893 the British soldier was provided with the 
following : — 12 oz. of flesh, 1 lb. of bread, and a grocery 
ration for extra bread, potatoes, milk, vegetables, tea, 
sugar, etc. At the canteens he would, besides, get for 
himself other articles, mostly cheese, bacon, preserved 
meats, and fish.^ 

The Committee on Soldiers' Dietary in 1889 
reported that the free ration of bread and flesh, with 
an extra messing contribution of 3d. to 4d. a day, 
is, under jDroper management, sufHcient to provide 
an ample diet. 

In active service on the field a special scale is fixed, 
about as follows : — 1 lb. flesh, 1^ lb. bread, or 1 lb. 
biscuit, or 1 lb. flour, -g- oz. tea, ^ oz. coffee, 2 oz. sugar, 
^ oz. salt, g 11). fresh vegetables when procurable, or 
1 oz. compressed vegetables, and some extras when 
required. 

In the Suakim expedition in 1885, the ration was — 
bread 1^ lb., or biscuit 1 lb., fresh meat 1^ lb., or pre- 
served 1 lb., tea ^ oz., sugar 2|- oz., salt ^ oz., potatoes 
or fresh vegetables 12 oz., compressed vegetables 1 oz., 
occasionally jam, and other extras. Lime juice was 
ordered to be given when fresh vegetables or potatoes 
were wanting. 




DIET OF COMMUNITIES 291 

The amount of tiesli given even in tropical expedi- 
tions is remarkable ; the best soldiers of ancient times, 
and some of the armies of to-day, did extremely well 
without any. 

" The whole experience of recent wars," says Dr. 
Notter, " is against the issue of a spirit ration. There 
is no point, perhaps, on which there is a more unani- 
mous opinion than on this one, that there should be no 
daily issue of a spirit ration. Dr. Bryden long since 
pointed out that there was nothing more inimical to 
the acclimatising process in India." But a light red 
wine, well diluted, is often found refreshing and useful, 
as at the end of a Ions; march. 

The French soldier received 26 "4 oz. munition bread, 
8 "8 white bread for soup, 10*6 flesh (uncooked), 3 "5 
green vegetables, 1"1 dried, O'o salt. Twenty per 
cent, of the meat may be subtracted for bone. In war 
the bread was about 37 oz., and the flesh 14 '11. 

The German soldier received, for garrison periods — 
26 oz. bread, 5'3 meat, 3*18 rice, or 4*24 groats, or 8*12 
peas or beans or 53 potatoes ; for marches, etc. — 35 
bread, 17*65 meat (raw), 6 rice, or 6 groats, or 12 peas 
or beans, or 71 potatoes, 35*3 beer or 17*65 wine, 
1*76 butter, 1*41 tobacco. 

The Austrian soldier had, in the field, 30*8 oz. bread, 
4*9 rice or preserved vegetables, 1*3 preserved soup, 
10*6 fresh beef, 1 salt, 0*7 lard, 0*42 coffee, 046 sugar, 
1*2 tobacco, 0*1 pint rum or brandy, or 0*63 wine. 

In the Franco-Prussian war of 1870 the German 
soldier had daily, according to Konig : ^° — 

Bread 750 grms., flesh 500, bacon fat 250, beer 
1 litre. This gave 164 of proteid, 209 of fat, and 
400 of carbo-hydrate. Each man had also 30 grms. of 



292 STKENGTH AND DIET 

coffee, and GO of tobacco. " Such a diet, rich in fat,"^ 
says Dr. Martin, " is lit only for the most strenuous 
exertion." 

The Russian soldier, in peace — 4 3 '3 5 oz. rye breads 
32*65 flour, 7'24 flesh, 4'8 groats; in the large ration 
for war — 36-15 rye bread, 21*67 flesh, 4*8 groats, 
and 2*72 butter or tallow. 

The peace ration of the Italian soldier was — 32*4 
bread, 7*06 to 10-59 flesh, 0-53 bacon, 5-3 rice, 0*53 salt, 
0-71 sugar, 0*53 roasted coflee, 8-82 wine. 

The United States soldier had — 20 fresh beef, or 
22 salt beef, 18 flour, or 18 soft bread. When on 
fatigue — 2-4 extra beans, 1-6 rice, 2-4 sugar, 1-6 cofl'ee 
(green), or r2 roasted, or 0*32 tea. By a recent 
(1893) Act, 1 lb. of vegetables was added. 

The native Indian soldiers had in Egypt in 1882 — 
1|- lb. rice, or 2 lb. of atta, 4 oz. dhall, 2 oz. ghee, | oz. 
salt, 1 oz. onions, -^ oz. pepper. Where desired, 1 lb. 
of flesh was issued once a week in place of half the 
rice. 

For the diet of the British navy I would refer to 
the Treatise on Hygiene. The diet of British merchant 
ships is extraordinarily rich : 1 lb. of bread, Ij lb. of 
beef or 1 J lb. of pork, ^ lb. of flour, and \ lb. of peas 
on alternate days. 

" The troops who arrived with Omar Pasha stand the 
climate well," wrote the correspondent of the Times in 
August 1855. "I am not sure whether their temper- 
ance, l)ordering on abstemiousness, does not contribute 
considerably to this result. Meat is with them an 
exceptional article of food, and biscuit, rice, and beans 
are their daily diet." 

The Ottoman army consisted, in the first half of 



DIET OF COMMUNITIES 293 

last century, of men of " herculean f<5rm " wlio rarely 
ate tlesli. 

The Swedish soldiers who came from the province 
of Daleearlia were remarkable for strength and bravery ; 
the old men were " as strong and brave as the young." 
This was accounted for by their simple habits, with a 
diet of bread and water. " Their progress was one 
series of triumphs till they placed Gustavus Vasa on 
the throne of Sweden," ^^ 

A recent letter from Tokio, by Mr. J. Gordon 
Smith, described the excellent hospital arrangements 
and treatment of the wounded in Japan. ^^ A well- 
known London surgeon praised the hospitals as the 
best equipped he had ever seen, and an American 
surgeon gave similar testimony, adding : "To my 
mind, the ration issued to the Japanese soldier has 
much to do with his immunity from suppurative con- 
ditions following serious injury." This diet is rice, 
fish, and vegetables. He does his work on 36 oz. 
daily. " It is undoubtedly the diet of the Japanese 
soldier that is the great secret of the success achieved 
by the army surgeons. The soldiers are in superb 
physical condition, and they can far better stand the 
shock of a bullet wound or an operation than a man 
who is fed on unsuitable diet." Mrs. Earle remarks 
that " this perfection of health is attained without 
milk, which is rarely procurable in Japan." ^'^ 

" The Japanese infantry," wrote Mr. G. Lynch, 
" were a surprise and revelation to most of the 
allies." . . . "There is a zest and a verve and a go 
about them, when in action, which I have never seen 
in any other troops. . . . The simple fare was ideal 
for campaigning. Broadly speaking, it consists of 



294 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



rice, with what might l)e called a flavouring of strong- 
tasting dried fish, and mysterious brown condiments 
suggestive of curry. "^* 

" The Japanese possess the greatest endurance of 
any people on earth." " The system of exercise, diet, 
and oeneral mode of livino; has made the Mikado's 
people the healthiest, strongest, and happiest men and 
women in the world." A full course of training takes 
four years, and includes knowledge of anatomy, diet, 
hydropathy, proper indoor and outdoor life, and other 
vital principles. In the campaign of 1900 the Japanese 
outmarched the American troops by 50 per cent. The 
Japanese practically live upon a vegetable diet. Fish 
is eaten in winter. The foundation of their diet is rice. 
The system aims at developing and toughening every 
muscle of the body.^^ 

Prisons. — Investigation into the diet of different 
classes about fifty years ago showed that the following 
amounts of solid food were consumed by each person 
per week : — 



Farm labourer 


122 oz 


Highest artisan 


140 „ 


Pauper 


150 „ 


Soldier 


168 „ 


Prisoner 


217 „ 


Convict on hulks 


239 „ 


Transported felon . 


330 „ 



It was a surprise to find that the convict and pauper 
had much more food than the labourer. Another 
surprise was the discovery that the independent 
labourer was healthier than the pauper so fed. 



DIET OF COMMUNITIES 295 

Governors of workhouses said the high diet carried 
ort' some of the inmates. The heavier diets were found 
to be the least healthy. Important returns from the 
jails showed that an increase in the average amount of 
sickness bore a direct proportion to the amount of diet. 
In the lowest diet series of the jails, 188 oz. solid 
food were given at Is. lO^^d., or about 27 oz. a day. 
The percentage of sick per annum was 3, the mortality 
1"G per thousand. In the highest diet series, at 
218 oz., costing 3s. 2d. a week, the percentage of sick 
was 23'5, the mortality nearly 4, that is, 1 in 2G6. 
In the intermediate, at 213 oz., costing 2s. 4d. a week, 
the sick percentage was 18, the mortality a little over 
3 per thousand, that is, 1 in 320. 

Where diet was reduced, mortality had in no 
instance been increased, but generally diminished. 

Where animal food was diminished and vegetable 
increased, there the sickness was reduced. ^*^ 

Dr. Farr found that of sixty prisons divided 
according to high, low, and intermediate diet, the 
annual attacks of sickness and the mortality were — 

In the low . . 140 1'48 

„ high . . 212 (?) 3-44 

,, intermediate . 93 2*93 

The number of prisoners was 267,800. 

Experiments in diet on prisoners at Glasgow gave 
these results : Ten men were given light work, on the 
following diet — three meals a day, 13 oz. oatmeal, 
3 lb. of boiled potatoes, Ij oz. of buttermilk. Two 
were not very well at the beginning of the experiment ; 
at the end, after two months, all were well. The 
average gain in weight per man was 4 lb. 



296 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Worl'houstes. — The following particulars are from 
Sir Jolm Forbes' Memoranda made in Ireland in 
1853:'"— 

The dietary in the Killarney Union Workhouse is 
this — " The able-bodied adults receive no bread, but 
only stirabout for dinner and supper. This is made 
from equal parts of Indian meal and oatmeal, the 
allowance of the mixed meal being 8 or 9 oz. for 
breakfast and 9 or 10 oz. for dinner; at both meals 
buttermilk is allowed." " In addition, the children 
under fifteen, and the aged and infirm, were allowed 
bread — the former brown, the latter white. Potatoes 
were allowed on alternate days, 3|- lb. to each able- 
bodied person." (P. 94, vol. ii.) 

At Londonderry Workhouse working-men received, 
for breakfast, 7 oz. of meal, ^ quart of buttermilk ; for 
dinner, 12 oz. of coarse bread, 1 quart of soup of 
carrots, turnips, onions, cabbage, pepper, and oatmeal ; 
and for supper, 6 oz. of mixed maize and oatmeal and 
^ quart of buttermilk. 

At a workhouse at Steep in Antrim a small portion 
of meat was allowed in the soup three times a week. 

In many of the workhouses two meals only were 
allowed in the twenty-four hours, and these consisted 
almost wholly of farinaceous matter, without a particle 
of animal food [flesh] from one year's end to the other. 
" When, however, it is remembered that the universal 
habit of the Irish people of the labouring class has 
long been to live almost exclusively on the potato, an 
article of diet much less nutritive than any of the 
kinds of meal which constitute the workhouse fare, 
the want of flesh as one of the articles, and the want 
of variety, will seem less extraordinary." " Even the 




DIET OF COMMl XITIP:S 297 

limitation of the meals to two would seem to be 
among the ordinary habits of the Irish peasantry." 
<P. 228.) 

Sir John Forbes then gives a very interesting 
account and comparison of the Irish and English 
workhouse dietaries. " The English dietary," with its 
flesh, meaty soup, cheese, puddings, and vegetables, 
^' will be reg-arded, I doubt not, as containins: a much 
larger stock of nutriment than . . . the Irish." 
" Accurate chemical examinations, however, lead to 
a conclusion the very reverse of this." 

A scientific opinion is then given, with analysis 
showing that the "dry nutriment," 18'65, of the Irish 
contains 4*4 of "azotised nutriment" (nitrogenous), 
wdiile the English "dry nutriment," 15 "5, contains 
only 3 "9 of nitrogenous. 

Meat, this authority states, is, weight for weight, 
" much more nutritious than bread," and 1 pint of 
buttermilk is equal in azotised matter to 4 oz. of flesh. 
He finds fault, however, w^ith the monotony of the 
diet for indoor life, and so does Forbes. There 
should be an increased allowance, he thinks, of fresh 
vegetables. 

He finds much fault in the land system of Great 
Britain and of Ireland, " where the position of the 
peasant is one of hopelessness, discontent, and stagna- 
tion ; for what motive has he to induce self-denial, 
energy, and prudence ? It is possible for the poorest 
young man in Germany, Sw^itzerland, the Tyrol, 
Belgium, Holland, France, Denmark, Sweden, and 
Norway to purchase a garden or a farm if he is 
intelligent, prudent, and self-denying. It is a safer 
and more agreeable investment than that of a little 



298 STRENGTH AND DIET 

shop, which is the only one open to a poor peasant in 
Engknd." (P. 381.) 

Schools, etc. — In 1833 the children of an orphan 
asylum at Albany, New York, numbering 80 to 130, 
were put on a vegetable diet. Three years after the 
change was made the principal teacher reported : 
*' The effect of the new regimen on the intellectual 
power of the children has been too obvious and too 
strikino; to be doubted. There has been a ffreat 
increase in their mental activity and power. The 
quickness of their perception and the power of their 
retention daily astonish me," 

Similarly, Mr. John Burdell reported of the chil- 
dren of field negroes that there was the utmost avidity 
and aptitude to learn. They were fed on corn meal, 
yams, peas, etc. But the children of the same age who 
got animal food were wholly different, slow to learn, 
and disinclined to study.^^ 

Some years ago it was reported that at Dr. Fegan's 
Homes for Boys in London the vegetarian diet was 
adopted (since 1885) with great benefit. They had 
wdiole-meal bread acl lib. He said, after three years' 
experience, that though many of the boys came from 
a weakly stock, and were debilitated by neglect, 
yet " the incontestable fact remains that the general 
health of the boys is not only better than in ordinary 
families, but better than it has ever been before in our 
homes," If located in the country, he thinks there 
would be almost perfect absence of illness. 

Other examples of communities or classes living 
simply are summarised below : — 

The monks of Burmah, a very large proportion of 
the young men of the nation, eat only twice a day, 



DIET OF COMMUNITIES 299 

and never after noou. They are altogether temperate 
and frugal. Their food is rice, curry, and fruit. 

The messengers from Madras and Calcutta to 
Jiombay formerly ran sixty-two miles a day for a 
thousand miles or more. They were tall and athletic. 
Their staple food was boiled rice. 

The Bolivian troopers marched eighteen to twenty- 
five leagues, encumbered with baggage. Their diet 
was maize, cocoa, and water. 

The Brazil slaves were most robust, and easily 
carried 180 lb. burdens on their heads. Their diet was 
rice, fruit, bread, and roots. 

The Congo slaves were remarkably athletic, about 
the finest-looking men in the world. Their diet was 
vegetarian. 

At Smyrna the porters carried loads of 400 
to 800 lb. The water-carriers at Constantinople, 
according to Sir W. Fairbairn, were physically the finest 
men in Europe. Their diet was chiefly bread, with 
cucumber, cherries, figs, dates, or other fruit, and now 
and then a little fish. 

Food of Whalers. — The crews of the whalers now 
live on shore with the Eskimo, using the same food — 
seal, walrus, whale meat, venison, bear, sea-birds, and 
fish. Salt meat is ruled out, as it produces scurvy. 
The mortality, with fresh food instead of salt, is now 
small. 

" The Eskimos are a complete contrast to the 
riotous crews of the whaling vessels, who are the scum 
of the seafaring world." They are teachable and 



Vegetarians by choice. — Besides the communities 
and classes mentioned in this chapter, there remains 



300 STRENGTH AND DIET 

the small body of vegetarians by choice, which lives 
frugally in the midst of the beast-eating multitude, 
in England, Germany, and the United States. I have 
no means of arriving at an estimate of their health 
or efficiency, compared with the average, but believe 
it to be high. 

Many, perhaps the majority of, vegetarians in 
England and in the United States have made the 
change owing to ill - health, so that the immunity 
from serious maladies which they commonly maintain 
is the more noteworthy. Many, however, go to excess 
in the use of tea, coffee, etc., and this accounts for a 
proportion of nervous illness probably not very much 
less than that of the general population. Gout, rheu- 
matism, and indigestion seem to be less frequent among 
them, and they are less subject to depression of spirits. 
There is a common testimony to the increased sense 
of enjoyment, and increased capacity for work. 

Great is the perversion of manners in man, 
ingeminates Gassendi, — " he appears to have put on 
another disposition. Hence the whole care and con- 
cern of philosophy and moral instruction seem to 
consist in leading him back into those paths which 
he has forsaken." 



CHAPTER VIII 

Personal Experiences and Observations 

In the following pages I have gathered from a great 
number of sources — in history, in memoirs, and in 
contemporary writings, — evidence in relation to the 
kinds of diet which seem, by practical experience, to 
be best fitted for a full and vigorous life. A state of 
apparent robustness may be sustained for some time 
on rich aliments not appropriate to the constitution, 
but these will not conduce to efficiency through any 
long period, and will surely give rise to numerous 
disorders. I have not, therefore, thought it necessary 
to enter into many details respecting the ordinary 
excessive dietaries of rich communities, for they are 
open to daily observation, and their effects, too, are 
very easily ascertained. 

The good reputation of either a simple or a non- 
fiesh diet appears to have come down from very early 
times, and naturally the first accounts we have of 
"total abstainers" are derived from the East. I find 
in Pitson's book that the Chaldean Magi lived on 
herbs, that the laws of Draco and Triptolemus, " the 
most ancient legislators of the Athenians," enjoined 
them to " honour their parents and kill neither man 
nor beast," and that the " great Aurungzebe " never 
tasted flesh, fish, or strong liquors, and lived to near 
a hundred. 

301 



302 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Aud ill reading some of tlie volumes of Joseplius, 
translated by Wliiston, I came upon the following- 
passage :^ — 

" Now Daniel and his kinsmen had resolved to use 
a severe diet, and to abstain from those kinds of food 
which came from the king's table, and entirely to for- 
bear to eat of all living creatures " ; and they expressed 
to the official their desire to have " pulse and dates for 
their food, and anything else besides the flesh of living 
creatures," for " that their inclinations were to that 
sort of food, and that they despised the other." The 
officer feared that they would be discovered by the 
kino; from " their measure bodies and the alteration of 
their countenances." They, however, persuaded Arioch 
to make an experiment with them for ten days, and to 
continue the fare if it were successful. " Now, when 
it appeared that they were so far from becoming worse 
by the use of this food, that tliey grew plumper and 
fuller in body than the rest, insomuch that he thought 
those who fed on what came from the king's table 
seemed less plump and full, while those that were 
with Daniel looked as if they had lived in plenty," he 
allowed them to continue on their frugal diet, and 
*' they had their souls in some measure more pure, and 
less burdened, and so fitter for learning, and had their 
bodies in better tune for hard labour," 

It is curious that a tradition of successful " simpler 
life " should have reached us from amidst the luxurious 
extravagances of ancient Babylon. If Danielites had 
been numerous in that empire, its fall might have been 
long deferred. Very different from the Babylonian 
were the habits of Cyrus the Conqueror. 

Caesar at forty-three was in the fullest vigour of 



EXPERIENCES AND 015SERVATrONS 303 

mind and body. His abstemious habits had left his 
health iinshakeu. No common soldier was more care- 
less of hardships. He mucli admired his foes, the 
Nervii, who were water-drinkers, and forbade wine to 
be brought among them, as injurious to their sinews 
and their courage. " Esse homines feros magnaeque 
virtutis." " Nihil peti vini reliquarumque rerum ad 
luxuriam pertineutium inferri, quod iis rebus relan- 
guescere animas eorum et remitti virtutem existi- 
marent." " 

" His own private habits and the habits of his 
household were models of frugality. He made an 
efifort to check the luxury which was eating into the 
Roman character." " He was a great bather, and 
scrupulously clean in all his habits, abstemious in his 
food, and careless in what it consisted, rarely or never 
touching wine, and rating sobriety as the highest of 
qualities when describing any new people. He was an 
athlete in early life, admirable in all manly exercises." 

Pythagoras said : " Nor is it meet for you to have 
no care for the health of the Ijody, but to make to 
yourself a moderation in drink, and food, and exercise," 
..." and accustom yourself to have a diet simple 
and non-luxurious." 

Porphyrises, of the third century after Christ, wrote 
that the eating of much flesh fills with a multitude of 
evil diseases. 

Pliny wrote as follows : — " Let us candidly confess 
our guilt, we who are not contented even with the 
poisons as nature has produced them ; for by far the 
greater portion of them, in fact, are artificially prepared 
by the human hand." ^ Diogenes, Cicero, Plato, and 
Piutardi luivc already been mentioned as apparently 



304 STRENGTH AND DIET 

opposed to a carnivorous diet. Zeno the Stoic, Meiie- 
demus, and many other ancient writers, are mentioned, 
who were vegetarian. Seneca wrote : " There is no 
need for prying into all the depths of the sea, for 
loading one's stomach with heaps of slaughtered 
animals . . . ; may the divinities bring ruin upon 
them wliose luxury transcends the bounds of an 
empire which is perilously wide." He is said to 
have lived with pleasure on less than sixpence a 
day. 

No doubt some must have been impressed by the 
strength of the " hordearii," gladiators who throve 
on barley bread. Figs, nuts, soft cheese, and bread 
were their fare for some time.^ 

Later the athletes ate flesh, and Celsus affirmed 
that " the bodies which are filled in the manner of the 
athletse — that is, witli much animal food — become the 
most quickly old and diseased." Similarly, the modern 
flesh-eating Patagonians rarely attain seventy years of 
ao;e, accordino- to Graham.^ 

" It seems," wrote Lord Bacon in his Treatise on 
Life and Death, " to be approved by experience that a 
spare, and almost a Pythagorean, diet, such as is pre- 
scribed by the strictest monastic life, or practised by 
hermits, is most favourable to long life." He might 
well have added " and to strons^ life." 

Pythagoras is represented by Ovid as arguing 
thus — 

" mortals, from your fellows' blood abstain, 
Nor taint your bodies with a food profane ! 
While corn and pulse by Nature are bestowed, 
And planted orchards bend their willing load ; 
While laboured gardens wholesome herbs produce, 
And teeming vines afford their generous juice ; 



EXPEUIEXCES xVNI) OIJSERA ATIONS 305 

Nor tardier fruits of cruder kind are lost, 
But tamed with fire, or mellowed by the frost ; 
"While kiue to iiails distended udders bring, 
And bees their honey redolent of spring ; 
While Earth not only can your needs supply. 
But, lavish of her store, provides for luxury, — 
A guiltless feast administers with ease. 
And without blood is prodigal to please." 

And iiuicli more to the same effect. 

Theophrastiis, the disciple of Plato and Aristotle, 
who died at 107, said that "eating much and feeding 
upon flesh makes the mind more dull, and drives it to 
the extreme of madness." 

Sir Isaac Newton, while writing his work on Oiytics, 
ate little but bread, wine, and water (Voltaire). 

Descartes preferred fruit and vegetables to flesh. 

A recent work by Ernst von Dobschiitz*^ deals 
elaborately with the subject of vegetarianism in the 
early Christian Church. 

Many of the bishops and leaders of the people, 
and several relio-ious bodies, ate no flesh and drank 
no wine. The same rule is said to hold good still 
among l)oth East and West Syrians, Nestorians, and 
Jacobites. 

Porphyry wrote : "The use of flesh does not con- 
tribute to health, but rather prevents it."'^ 

Swedenborii; : Eatino- the flesh of animals, con- 
sidered in itself, is something profane. 

Montaigne : " For my own part, I cannot without 

grief see so much as an innocent beast pursued and 

killed that has no defence, and from which we have 

received no oflence at all. The stao;, seeing no other 

remedy, implores mercy liy his tears," [" To the which 

place a poor sequestered stag, that from the hunter's 
20 



306 STRENGTH AND DIET 

aim had ta'en a hurt, did come to languish, . . . and 
the big round tears coursed one another down his inno- 
cent nose," augmenting the swift brook by which he 
stood. — Shakespeare.] " Considering that one and the 
same Master has lodo^ed us tooether for His service, and 
that they, as well as we, are of His family, theology 
has some reason to enjoin us some aflfection and regard 
to them." 

Shelley : Comparative anatomy teaches us that 
man resembles frugivorous, and not carnivorous, 
animals. He has neither claws nor pointed teeth. 
"A Mandarin of the first class, with nails two inches 
long, would prol)ably find them alone insufiicient to hold 
even a hare." 

" jNIan and the animals whom he has infected with 
his society or depraved by his dominion are alone 
diseased." The domestic hog, sheep, cow, dog, are 
subject to " an incredible variety of distempers." ^ 

Shelley's horror of causing suffering to any form of 
life made him a veo^etarian : his aro-ument bein<]^ that 
man's evil passions, as well as " the germs of misery, 
death, disease, and crime," largely resulted from his 
unnatural food.^ 

Shelley was an example of reckless simplicity and 
extravagant frugality in his treatment of that ill-used 
body, which had for its inmate a soul hungering and 
thirsting for perfection. The Shelleys adopted a 
fleshless diet in 1812. He learnt more of the vege- 
tarian doctrine from Mr. Newton, author of The 
Return to Nature, who himself had been converted 
by Dr. Lambe of Warwick. "Since 1809 the house- 
hold in Chester Street, consistinof of Mr. and Mrs. 
Newton, a nurse, and four young children, had strictly 



EXPElllEXCES AND OBSERVATIONS 307 

adhered to tlie vegetaljle regimen. Mr. Newton's 
delicate health had been to a great degree restored, 
. . . The children," said Shelley, "are the most beautiful 
and healthy creatures it is possible to conceive ; the 
girls perfect models for a sculptor ; their dispositions 
also are the most sjentle and conciliating." Later, 
Shelley wrote : " I continue vegetable. . . . My health 
is mucli improved by it. . . ." "^ This is rather re- 
markable, for not only were ^Ir. and Mrs. Shelley 
foolish in their choice of articles of food, but what they 
had was badly cooked, and meals were irregular. In 
1817 he seems to have been active and strons;, better 
than before his conversion to the natural diet. He 
often walked over thirty miles. But probably his way 
of living was altogether too haphazard to give him a 
chance of robust health for any length of time. 

jMoltke, when asked, in his ninetieth year, how he 
maintained his health and activity, answered : " By 
great moderation in all things, and by regular outdoor 
exercise." 

Sir James Sawyer advised exercise before break- 
fast, little meat, plenty of fat [or oil or butter], no 
intoxicants, life in the country if possible, care for 
pure drinking-water, and against damp and drains ; 
eight hours' sleep with open window, a bath at body 
temperature, frequent and short holidays, and good 
temper. 

Lord Hannen, the eminent judge, was a vegetarian. 
He stated at a lecture by Sir B. Richardson that since 
he had adopted the reformed diet he had been " not 
only a healthier Ijut a happier man."^ 

Dean Farrar looked " with the greatest possible 
interest upon the experiment of the food reformers," 



308 STRENGTH AND DIET 

and thonglit that tlieir system was destined to spread. 
" They are doing a very great public service." ^ 

Cobden unconsciously bore testimony to the staying 
powers of vegetarians when he said that, of the 658 
members of the House of CVmimons, Colonel Thompson 
was the best able to endure its fatigues, and Mr. 
Broth erton came next. These two members were both 
teetotallers and vegetarians.^^ 

Cardinal ]\Iauning, himself very abstemious, in his 
Lenten Pastoral for 1876, urged that the highest physical 
and mental force may be sustained without flesh meat, 
as some of the most robust and powerful races testify.^ 

Horace Greeley, the powerful editor of the New 
York Tribune, said in his autobiography: "I judge 
that a strict vegetarian will live ten years longer than 
a habitual flesh-eater, while suffering in the average 
less than half so much sickness as the carnivorous 
must. . . . All public danger lies in a direction 
opposite to that of vegetarianism.^ 

Garibaldi, at fifty-three, remarks Captain Forbes,^^ 
"looked as young as any of them, and was by far the 
most active man in the army, solely, I believe, owing 
to his frugal habits — bread and water, fruit and smoke 
forming his staple diet." In England he breakfasted 
at 6 a.m. on bread, cheese, figs, and grapes. 

Dr. Severin Wielobycki, vegetarian and total 
abstainer, was born in January 1793. He fought 
thirty -six battles on behalf of the independence of 
Poland. Exiled from his native land, he settled in 
Edinburgh, Avhere he took degrees in surgery and 
medicine. Two years before his death, when nearly 
a hundred years old, he walked to the top of Primrose 
Hill (London) every morning before six o'clock. On 



EXPP:1UEXCES and OUSEUVATIOXS 309 

his luuidredth birtliday, 1893, at a reception in London, 
he hud down three rules for health and lono- life — 

o 

1. Aljstinence from intoxicants, which harm the 

brain, nervous system, and liver. 

2. Abstinence from tol^acco. 

3. Abstinence from Hesh meat. 

Sir Richard Phillips, High Sheriff of Middlesex, 
from accidentally seeing the barbarities of a London 
slaughter-house at twelve years old, became an abstainer 
from Hesh. hi the Medical Journal for July 27, 1 8 1 1 , he 
gave sixteen reasons for his l)elief in humane dietetics. 
One was the high ground of the right of sensitive 
beinos to live, and the moral wrons^ of slaughterino- 
them, when man can live in perfect health on other 
natural products. Another was the horror and repug- 
nance felt by man to killing and devouring sentient 
creatures. Another, the personal satisfaction following 
abstinence from flesh for thirty years, without a day's 
serious illness, and with strength and vigour equal or 
superior to that of other men. Another, that man, for his 
perverted appetite, inflicts most horrible cruelties upon 
animals, " bleeding, skinning, roasting, and boiling them 
alive." Another, that few men or women could devour 
the animal they might be obliged themselves to kill. 
Another, that unless disguised and flavoured by the 
processes of the kitchen, the human stomach would be 
averse from receivins; the remains of animals. Another, 
that England and Wales, with their 47,000,000 acres, 
would maintain as many inhabitants living on grain, 
fruits, and vegetables. 

Mr. George Dornbusch wrote in 1871 : "I find in 
pure air, pure water, pure food, personal cleanliness, 
and daily bathing, all that nature requires for perfect, 



310 STRENGTH AND DIET 

uninterrupted health." For about twenty-eight years 
lie had abstained from all animal products, including 
milk, eggs, etc. ; also from tea, coffee, and intoxicants, 
and bore witness to the perfect healthiness of this 
frugal life.^ 

Benjamin Franklin obtained a situation at a printing 
office in London ; here he was nicknamed " Water 
American," for " whilst other men drank five or six 
pints of beer during the day, he took nothing but 
water, yet he was able to carry in one hand cases of 
type which they could hardly manage with two." 

Franklin and many others have found a non-flesh 
diet favourable to clear ideas and rapidity of thought. 
His fare was chiefly potatoes, rice, hasty pudding, 
raisins, and water. 

He " set to work to persuade his companions to 
take a breakfast of porridge, and gradually gained 
many converts." He was a great swimmer, and on one 
occasion swam a distance of four miles on the river. 
For some years he lived chiefly on coarse meal and 
water, or bread and milk. He was exceedingly strong ; 
rose at 5 a.m., worked at the printing office from 
8 to 6, and spent the evening in study or conversation. 
After a life of extraordinary mental and bodily activity, 
he died at the age of eighty-four.^^ 

Maurice Maeterlinck writes : " Man, in relation 
to matter, is still in the experimental, groping stage 
of his earliest days. ... It was only yesterday 
that he learnt that he had probably erred in the 
choice of his nourishment ; that he must reduce by 
two-thirds the quantity of nitrogen he absorbs, and 
largely increase the volume of hydrocarbons ; that a 
little fruit, or milk, a few vegetables, farinaceous 



« 



EXrEUIEXCES AND OBSERVATIONS 311 

substances, . . . are amply sufKcient to maintain 
the ardour of the finest and mightiest life. . . . 
For in truth all our justice, morality, all our thoughts 
and feelings, derive from three or four primordial 
necessities, whereof the principal one is food." 

Were the belief in our well-beino- without animal 

o 

food to become general, a great economic and moral 
improvement would ensue. One result would be the 
abandonment of the degradation wrought by alcohol.^'' 

In 1747, John Wesley wrote to the Bishop of 
London : " Thanks be to C4od, since the time I gave up 
the use of flesh meat and wine, I have l)een delivered 
from all physical ills." 

The famous Dr. Aljcrnethy said : " I tell you 
honestly what is the cause of the complicated madness 
of the human race. It is their gormandising and 
stimulating the digestive organs to excess, and thereby 
producing nervous disorders and irritations." 

Dr. Norman Kerr, speaking of the number of 
relapses and absolute failures in relation to excessive 
drink, said : " Injudicious and unwholesome diet con- 
tributes to predispose the system to inebriety." ^^ 

St. Pierre, in his Studies of Nature, observed : 
" Under an improved system of education, children 
will be brought up to a vegetable regimen, as being 
the most natural to man, and seeing that its influence 
is so considerable and so happy." 

Haller, " a first-rate botanist, an eminent physician, 
and a profound philosopher," wrote : ^''' "This food, 
which I have described, and in which flesh has no part, 
is salutary, insomuch that it fully nourishes a man, 
protracts life to an advanced period," and prevents or 
cures various disorders. 



312 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" "Wordsworth was, if not a vegetarian, abstinent 
and simple in liis ways." 

Louis Cornaro changed all his habits at forty, and 
lived on 12 oz. of food a day, and his health became so 
perfect that for half a century thereafter he was never 
ill. When past ninety, in deference to his friends, he 
increased his food to 14 oz., with bad results, and he 
then further diminished his allowance. At ninety-five 
he described his life as one of great serenity and enjoy- 
ment. He wrote plays, he assisted in public works in 
Venice. " I find myself," he wrote, " as healthy, 
merry, and happy as if I were but twenty-five." All 
his faculties were in excellent condition. He wrote 
seven or eight hours a day, walked, sang, and played 
delightfully, up to the age of a hundred.^" 

Count Tolstoi's diet consists of bread, porridge, 
vegetables, and fruit. For many years he has not 
eaten flesh, eggs, butter, or lard, and has used 
neither wine nor tobacco. He is wonderfully vigor- 
ous, mentally and bodily, for his age, seventy-four. 

In the New Review for 1892, he wrote : " The 
vegetarian movement ought to fill with gladness the 
souls of all those who have at heart the realisation of 
God's kingdom upon earth." ^^ 

Mr. Joseph Livesey, the great temperance worker, 
one of " the seven men of Preston," wrote, ^^ on 3rd 
July 1874 : "I have shown many a time that there is 
more real food in a pennyworth of bread than in a 
gallon of ale, and I have no hesitation in affirmins^ that 
there is more real nutriment in a pound of bread than 
in a pound of flesh." " I have abstained from ' the 
dead cow ' for twelve months at once ";..." the 
result has always been satisfactory." 



fl 



EXrEHIEXCES AND OKSEKVATIOXS ;u:3 

Tlie ilev. Cluule.-5 H. Spurgeon, the great prcucher 
and worker, who had been a sufferer from gout, 
spoke as follows -^ in September 1885: — "For the 
last seveu or eight months ... I have lived on 
[lurely vegetable food, and I am a hundred per cent, 
better man for it. . . . The fact that I am alive myself, 
and that I enjoy life, and that 1 am in respectable 
health and strength, and a great deal stronger than I 
remember ever having been before, and a great deal 
lighter and more vig;orous, and more full of mental 
energy than I was, convinces me that if one man can 
live so, other people can live so." 

Mrs. Mona Caird described how excellently her son 
throve on a diet of lentils, haricots, hominy, rice, oat- 
meal, and especially potatoes, and milk, butter, and 
eggs. He never tasted fish, flesh, or fowl. " He began 
life a puny, weakly child, who I never thought would 
live, and to-day, at eight years old, he is a strong, 
health)' boy, with extraordinary vitality, and absolutely 
without the knowledge of what illness is." 

Lady Augustus Paget, in 1893, stated, in answer 
to inquiries : " Since I have adopted the vegetable 
diet, I have experienced a delightful sense of repose 
and freedom — a kind of superior elevation above things 
material, and an ability to resist fatigue. ... It 
destroys the taste for intoxicants." 

Mr. and Mrs. Bramwell Booth are vegetarians. 
Mrs. Booth said, in 1894, that her family and 
household have fallen in willingly with the new 
arrangements. There is less monotony and better 
economy. 

General Booth, in his Doctrines and Discipline of 
the Salvation Army, enjoins his people as follows : 



314 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" Eat moderately. . . . Thousands die from eating too 
much. One, or, anyway, two substantial meals per 
day are suthcient, with an additional light repast, for 
any person in health," And in the Orders and Regu- 
lations, "It is a great delusion to suppose that flesh- 
meat of any kind is essential to health." . . . "The 
use of liesh-meat may be abandoned at any time with- 
out loss in either health or strength ; there may be 
some little inconvenience felt for the first two or three 
weeks, but it will be very trifling, and the benefits 
which follow, in the way of economy, comfort, health, 
spirits, and ability to do mental work, will be most 
gratifying to all who persevere with the change." " A 
pound of as good, nourishing, and strengthening vege- 
table food can be obtained for twopence as in animal 
food will cost a shilling." 

Major Cooke, the leader of the slum work in Man- 
chester, said, in 1890, that he had never known a 
vegetarian who was at the same time a drunkard. The 
Army's work would be largely unnecessary if a non- 
flesh diet were adopted in the slums. 

Mr. John Macgregor (the famous " Rob Roy " ) in 
his Cruise on the Baltic, 1872, described the sufl"erings 
of the oxen on board ship. " Oh, the roast beef of Old 
England ! . . , the wrenchings of horns and screwing 
of tails, . . . the hot, thirsty days and cold, hungry 
nights, . . . the filth, the odour, the feverish bellow- 
ing. . . . Who can sum up these for one poor bullock's 
miseries ? " If he lies down, after two days and two 
nights of balancings on sloppy, slippery boards, he is 
trampled under the others' hoofs and squeezed by their 
huge bodies, and suff'ocated by the pressure and foul- 
ness. " Morning comes, and the dead must be taken 



EXPERIENCES AND OHSEKX ATIONS 315 

from tlie living." Then tlie liorrible, mangled carcases 
are hauled up. " Another, and another, and twenty- 
two are thus hauled up and cast into the sea, and this, 
too, on the first day of a very calm passage. What in 
a storm ? Oh, the roast beef of Old England ! " "^ 

Burton, in his Anatomy of Melandiohj, writes as 
follows : -'— 

" Crato adviseth his patient to eat but twice a day, 
and that at his set meals, . . . and to put seven 
hours' difference between dinner and supper. Which 
rule, if we did observe in our colleges, it would be 
much better for our healths, but custom, that tyrant, 
so prevails, that, contrary to all good order and 
rules of physic, we scarce admit of five." . . . 
" Moreover, that which he doth eat must be well 
chewed, and not hastily gobbled, and by all means to 
eat no more than he can well digest." Lessius the 
Jesuit holds 16 oz. at most a fit proportion for a whole 
day for sedentary people. " A great inconvenience 
comes by variety of dishes.". . . "To preserve thine 
honour, health, and to avoid therefore all those infla- 
tions, torments, obstructions, crudities, and diseases 
that come by a full diet, the best way is to feed 
sparingly of one or two dishes at most, ... to 
choose one of many and feed on that alone," 

]\Ir. Robert Collyer said, " One great reason wdiy 
I never had a really sick day in my life was that as a 
boy I lived on oatmeal and milk and brown bread, 
potatoes and a bit of meat when 1 could get it ; and 
then oatmeal again." 

.Mr. F. W. Newman joined the Vegetarian Society 
in 1868, at sixty-three. After a life of great intellectual 
activity, he died in 1897, at the age of ninety-two.-^ 



316 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Roger Crab, who died on lltli September 1680, 
lived for 3s. 3d. a year on broth and bran, with chopped 
turnip leaves, and drank only water. He had fought 
and was wounded in the Cromwellian army. 

A lady who died in Skye in 1880, at the age of one 
hundred and seven, had lived all her life on oatmeal 
porridge, and had not used either tea or whisky. ^^ 

John Evelyn wTote : Scaliger says, " Whole nations, 
flesh-devourers, such as the farthest northern, becoming 
heavy, dull, unactive and much more stupid than the 
southern ; and such as feed on plants are more acute, 
subtil, and of deeper penetration." And he further 
argues from the short lives of most carnivorous animals 
compared with others. 

"John Berovicius, a learned physician, treating of 
the extreme age which those in America usually arrive 
at, asserts in behalf of crude and natural herbs." 

" When once old Parr changed his simple, homely 
diet to that of the court and Arundel House, he quickly 
dropt away." ^* 

Thoreau wrote : "I learned this at least : that if 
one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, 
and endeavours to live the life which he has imagined, 
he will meet with a success unimao-inable in common 
hours. He will put some things behind, will face an 
invisible boundary ; new, universal, and more liberal 
laws will begin to establish themselves within and 
around him, or the old laws be expanded and inter- 
preted in his favour in a more liberal sense. In pro- 
portion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe 
will appear less complex, and solitude will not be 
solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weak- 
ness." 



EXPERIENCES AND OHSERVATIOXS 



A 1 / 



John Howard, tlie pliilanthropist, " was very aliste- 
mious, lived eliicHy upon vegetables, ate little animal 
food, and drank no wine or spirits." 

" For many years before his death he was a 
total abstainer and vegetarian. In his London house, 
he says, there were not a dozen joints in seven years. 
Water and the plainest vegetables sufficed him. ]\Iilk, 
tea. butter, and fruit were his luxuries." 

He travelled 42,033 miles in visiting prisons, 
besides undergoing great hardships in his journeys for 
the investigation of the plague. ^^ 

R. L. Stevenson wrote : " The paraphernalia of 
murder, the preparatory brutalities of his [the Euro- 
pean's] existence, are all hid away ; an extreme sensi- 
bility reigns upon the surface, and ladies will faint at 
the recital of one tithe of what they daily expect of 
their butchers." 

" We consume the carcases of creatures of like 
a[ipetites, passions, and organs with our own ; we feed 
on babes, though not our own, and fill the slaughter- 
houses daily with screams of pain and fear."^*^ 

Dr. Eduard Reich, in his work on the Development 
of Reliction,'" writes : " No one can rise to the hiofher 
developments of the soul who does not regulate his 
life in accordance with the strictest hygienic rules and 
correct educational principles." By means of these 
we are led to the practice of care for others and self- 
mastery. " Among the first factors in the practice of 
such relicrion stands a well-reo'ulated diet." 

" Vegetarianism ... is infinitely more than a 
question of diet." ..." We allude to that higher 
vegetarianism which has true morality and religion 
for its source, which embraces the whole rule of life, 



318 STRENGTH AND DIET 

and wliicli, with its lofty goal, establishes the health 
of body aud soul." 

According to Clement of Alexandria, the use of 
fish, flesh, and fowl was forbidden to the priests of the 
ancient Egyptians. And one of Buddha's five chief 
commandments was : " Kill not — for pity's sake," and 
another, " Shun drugs and drinks, which work the 
wits' abuse ; clear minds, clean bodies, need no Soma 
juice." Dr. Reich's own experience during twenty 
years of the tleshless fare, has been entirely favourable, 
both physically and mentally. 

The Vicar of Gainsborouoh describes the slaug-hter- 
houses in his parish as a dreadful source of corruption 
to children aud women, who watch and gloat over the 
horrible sights of butchery. 

Words would fail to give any idea of "the inter- 
minable melancholy " of the Chicago slaughter-houses, 
where hundreds of thousands of oxen and pigs are 
yearly killed. The cruelty and pain are less for each 
creature than in the private yard, but the sum of 
horror and sufiering, the scale of the butchery, are 
appalling. One cannot help thinking, in Scrijjture 
language, that for all these things God will bring us 
into judgment, in disease, in loss of the joy of life, in 
moral abasement. 

Richard Wagner was influenced in the whole course 
of his intellectual life by a perusal of Gleize's Thcdysia, 
ou la nouvelle Existence. In 1850 he wrote : ^^ " On 
the one hand, lack of wholesome nourishment, on the 
other, excess of wanton enjoyment, and, above all, a 
general mode of life entirely foreign to our nature, 
have reduced us to a state of degeneration which can 
only be checked by a complete renovation of the 



EXPEIUEXCES AND OHSERVATIONS 319 

crippled organism." Much later he adopted to its full 
extent the doctrine that the regeneration of mankind 
can only take place hy abstinence from flesh-food and 
alcohol. Plant, in the place of animal food, he regarded 
as " the key-stone of regeneration." " It was the result 
of a profound metaphysical insight," he wrote, " when 
the Brahmin pointed to the manifold appearances of 
the animate world, and said, 'This is thyself; these 
woke in me the consciousness that in sacrificing one of 
our fellow-creatures we mangrled and devoured our- 
selves." ... In truth, we have developed a " heartless 
blindness to things that lay before our oldest ancestors 
in all their naked horror." 

He believed the Lord's Supper to have been estab- 
lished to substitute bread for flesh, and wine for blood. 

" That we have not the courage to set our only 
motive, that of pity, in the forefront of our appeals 
and admonitions to the people, is the curse of our 
civilisation, the attestation of the dis-God-ing of our 
established church-relio-ions." 

o 

Elsewhere he wrote : " When first it dawned on 
human wisdom that the same thing breathed in animals 
as in mankind, it appeared too late to avert the curse 
which, ranging ourselves with the beasts of prey, we 
seemed to have called down upon us through the taste 
for animal food — disease and misery of every kind, to 
which we did not see mere vesjetable-eatin"' men 
exposed. The insight thus obtained led further to the 
consciousness of a deep-seated guilt in our earthly 
being ; it moved those fully seized therewith to turn 
aside from all that stirs the passions through free-willed 
poverty and total abstinence from animal food." 

" Our conclusion should be couched as follows : — 



320 STRENGTH AM) DIET 

Human dignity only begins to assert itself at the point 
where man is distinguishable from the beast by the 
pity for it." 

Speculators bought up the rice harvest in India. 
Three millions of Hindus were swept away by famine, 
yet not one of these starving wretches could be moved 
to slay and eat his household animals : only after their 
masters did they famish too. 

" It perhaps may be no less profitable to pursue in 
thouo;ht the acts of such a union, startino; from the 
relis;ious conviction that the deo-eneration of the human 
race has been brought about by its departure from its 
natural food, the only basis of a possible regenera- 
tion. . . . The example of physical health displayed 
by the larger half of mankind that has stayed true to 
the natural diet, might fitly teach us the path to strike 
for regeneration of the depraved but ruling portion."-'' 

Michael Angelo, hardly less strong than great, 
attributed his power of studying for unusually long hours 
to his singular temperance. A little bread and wine 
was all he required for the chief part of the day. Very 
fi^quently he rose in the middle of the night to 
resume his labours. He excelled as painter, poet, 
architect, and sculptor.^'' 

Dr. Clouston of Edinburgh, speaking of neurotic 
children, said : "I have seen a change of diet to milk, 
tish, and farinaceous foods produce a marked improve- 
ment in regard to the nervous irritability of such 
children. And in regjard to such children I must 
thoroughly agree with Dr. Keith, who in Edinburgh 
for many years preached an anti-fiesh crusade in the 
bringing up of all children to the age of eight or ten 
years." A medical writer in the Boston Medical and 



EXrEKIEXCES AND Ol^SEKVATIONS 321 

Surgical Journal agrees with this opinion. He says : 
" I have become convinced that children fed largely on 
meat have a capricious appetite, and suffer from 
indigestion, constipation, and diarrhoea ; are subject to 
catarrhs of the mucous membranes, and have an 
unstable nervous system and less resistive power in 
general." These are more liable, he says, to colds. Dr. 
Cammann of New York wrote in 1884 ("Milk Diet in 
Childhood"), that in a large institution there, meat had 
been omitted from the dietary of children under eight 
years of age with good results. ^^ 

Cullen observed, says the British Medical Journal, 
that gout seldom attacks persons who live much on a 
vegetable diet. " Not only do we find that the 
sufferers we meet with have generally for years pre- 
viously been on a liberal allowance of animal food, 
and have frequently partaken freely of ale or wine, 
but we know that in Scotland, where less animal food 
is taken, and where the national beverage contains 
almost no acid, gout is comparatively rare." 

" A vegetarian diet will diminish the formation of 
uric acid, will directly introduce less uric acid or 
xanthine compounds, and, lastly, its salts will increase 
the alkalinity of the blood, so that all urates will be 
held easily in solution and freely excreted. Here then 
is a pretty complete explanation of Cullen's observation." 

After showing the importance of vegetarian diet in 
many cases of kidney disease, the article concludes : 
" For this reason soups made from meat, beef-tea, and 
meat extracts, wdiich contain the maximum of excretion 
products with the minimum of nutritive matters, should 
be entirely avoided, while a milk and vegetarian diet, 
even if it does not bring about complete repair, will do less 
21 



322 STRENGTH AND DIET 

than any other diet to increase the kidney lesion ; and, 
as regards the blood, will do more than any other diet 
to keep it free from uric acid and other toxic products 
of nitrogenous metabolism." ^^ 

Dr. Karl Oppel, a distinguished schoolmaster of 
Frankfort, who died in 1903, wrote in one of his books: 
" As I was acquainted with many vegetarians, who were 
models of good health, and who had developed a re- 
markable power for mental work, I considered it my 
duty to read the literature of vegetarianism and inform 
myself about its principles. . . . When I went over to 
a purely vegetable diet I was sixty-six years of age (in 
1882). The new mode of living has not caused me the 
slightest inconvenience. The much-honoured Viennese 
anatomist. Professor Hyrtl, said after becoming a 
vegetarian that he could think more clearly and calmly, 
that he felt gladder and fresher, and could work better 
than in the days of his youth. I can bear testimony 
to exactly the same experience. . . . Work is a pleasure 
to me ; neither walking nor mountaineering tire me 
unduly." ^^ 

Moltke, the great general, wdien asked, in his 
ninetieth year, how he maintained his health and 
activity, answ^ered, " By great moderation in all things, 
and by regular outdoor exercise." 

Mr. Eustace Miles adduces the following testimony : — 
Dr. Alcott maintains that as long as the use of animal 
diet remains, all our efibrts to eradicate diseases must 
be of no avail. 

Mr. Blackwood, the chemist, demonstrated that 
vegetables contain all that is necessary for man's life 
and strength. 

Dr. Andrew Combe stated that dyspeptic and 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 323 

nervous maladies are generally "the slow and gradual 
results of months or years of previous anxiety, or 
neorlect of dietetic rules and exercise." 

Humboldt calculated that land growing wheat 
supports ten times as many persons as pasture ; land 
growing bananas supports two hundred and fifty times 
as many. 

Dr. James Johnson, M.D., F.R.S., editor of The 
Medical Chirurgical Review, advised that meals should 
be taken at regular periods of six hours three times a 
day, should be thoroughly masticated, and very moderate 
in amount. Drink, which should not contain ferment- 
able substances, should be taken four Jwurs after a 
meal. 

Dr. Korke, a teacher in Syra, affirmed that in no 
country could he find pupils to compare with his, whose 
diet was entirely vegetarian. 

Following a "symposium" of old men on how 
they preserved their health, the Grand Magazine 
concludes : " With a single exception, the men have 
been all their lives exceedingly moderate, not to say 
abstemious, as regards both food and alcohol." Most 
of them had not used tobacco. ^^ 

At the Albany Orphan Asylum, says Mr. Miles, 
after experience of the usual fare, and after three years 
during which there were between thirty and forty 
deaths, and from four to six children continually on 
the sick list, the new system was tested, in which flesh 
and soups were wholly banished. Then the infirmary 
was entirely vacated. In the twelve succeeding months 
there were three deaths, but of new inmates. " Since 
the new regime had been fully adopted, there has been 
a remarkable increase of health, strength, activity, 



324 STRENGTH AND DIET 

vivacity, clieerfuhiess, and contentment among the 
children. The change of temper is very great. They 
have become less turbulent, irritable, peevish, and dis- 
contented." One of the superintendents adds, "There 
has been a great increase in their mental activity and 
power," etc. 

Referring; to foreioii countries, numerous instances 
of uncommon strength are adduced. 

" Few people," wTote Lieutenant C. R. Low, " sur- 
pass the Arabs in longevity, agility, and power of 
endurance." They subsist on dates and milk, and 
little else. Other examples, such as the people of 
Cyprus, are mentioned, but I have already quoted 
plenty of evidence of this kind. 

The following counsel is given on the whole subject : — 

" If there is a law of variety at meals, it is ' different 
things at different meals,' not ' different things at the 
same meal.' " 

As a rule, fruits and vegetables ought not to be 
eaten at the same meal. 

The condiments, pepper, etc., are not to be used by 
those who wish to live on an unirritating diet. 

The simpler foods include milk, fruits (such as 
oranges and apples), vegetables, grains (such as wheat 
and oats), nuts, water, cheese, Hovis bread [and flour], 
and " protene." 

Good health is "an active tendency towards what- 
ever is good, the tendency to develop, as God meant 
man to develop, in every direction, both physical, 
mental, and moral." 

Fatigue, according to Dr. Haig, arises because the 
person at the time cannot produce enough energy or 
force, and is partly caused by a deficiency of proteids. 



EXPERIENCES AND ()BSER\'ATIONS 325 

Either the body has not had enough proteids put 
into it, or the proteids have not been digested, or the 
blood is too much clogged to Itring the proteids to the 
right place. The blood may be clogged by waste 
products. 

The main causes of bad health, in relation to diet, 
are, according to Mr. Miles — (1) eating at the wrong 
time, e.g. just before or after hard work of any kind ; 
(2) food wrongly prepared ; (3) food wrongly mixed ; 
(4) failure to masticate sufficiently ; (5) excess ; (6) 
deficiency of proteid ; (7) harmful ingredients, such as 
stimulants or sedatives. 

" The amount of stimulant that mothers unwit- 
tingly give to children is simply appalling." " Tea, for 
instance, produces on the blood, the heart, the nerves, 
the digestive organs, the food itself, and the kidneys, 
certain effects which are absolutely unknown and 
unbelieved in by the person who only thinks of the 
satisfactory effects of the immediate present." 

As to the foods and way of living recommended, 
Mr. Miles has not yet heard of any case where a really 
fair and scientific trial has proved a failure. 

With this system, in which abstinence from flesh 
foods, tea, etc. was an important part, Mr. Miles found 
his ailments disappearing, his liking for alcohol de- 
parting ("a thing I had never imagined to be possible") ; 
clearness of eye, skill, endurance, activity, flexibility, 
brain- work, memory, increasing much. Expenses have 
much diminished, much time has been saved, longer 
hours have been given to work, games have " improved 
wonderfully," sleep improved ; liver attacks, colds, etc., 
have become rare; fatigue, depression, etc., were found 
to be owing to errors of food. " It is far less tirins; for 



326 STRENGTH AND DIET 

me to do twelve hours a day of the most severe brain- 
work while eating the proper kinds and amount of 
fieshless foods, than to do two hours a day while 
eating flesh with my meals." 

" Increasingly better motives spring out of in- 
creasingly better health." 

He recommends, in general and briefly, early rising, 
open w^indows, a protene biscuit and an apple or two 
early ; a short walk before breakfast, bath, two or three 
protene biscuits ; and after an hour, milk and soda ; 
work ; Ho vis bread and cheese or protene for lunch ; 
early dinner, very slow mastication ; early retirement 
to bed — two or three hours after the last meal. 

Very hot or cold foods, fast eating, drinking within 
half an hour before or two hours after a meal, alcohol, 
smoking, drugs, flesh-foods, tea, cofl'ee, cocoa, sauces, 
savouries, and irritants should be avoided. ^^ 

The Rev. J. C. Street said at a meetins; in 1902 
that his fifteen years of vegetarianism had been a 
record of brightness and strength to him, which he 
would not forego for anything he could think of.^'^ 

Mr. Ernest Clark spoke as a life vegetarian of the 
third generation, and said that all his children were 
also life vegetarians. He had a feeling of horror at the 
mere idea of eating flesh, and was convinced that life 
was happier for those who had no concern in the 
slaughter of animals. 

The Rev. James Clark found in America several 
religious bodies who are vegetarian — the Theosophists, 
Seventh Day Adventists, and Doukhobors. The Parsees 
are also said to be vegetarian.^*' 

Dr. Sosnowska, of Paris, in active practice since 
1887, broke down from excessive work, studied the 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 327 

diet question, and after adopting a vegetarian diet 
(fruit for three years) regained her health and vigour,^" 

Lord Heathfield, the hero of the siege of Gibraltar, 
during eight of the most momentous days ate only 
4 oz. of rice daily, with a little weak wine and water. 
His diet for a long time was bread and vegetables. ^^ 

Mr. Jackson, a distinguished surgeon of the army, 
said his health had been tried in all ways and climates, 
*' and by the aids of temperance and hard work I have 
worn out two armies in two wars, and probably could 
wear out another." " I eat no animal food, drink no 
wine or malt liquors, nor spirits of any kind."^^ 

The Rev, J. B. Strettles, in answer to inquiries, 
said : "I have neither seen nor heard of any reason to 
doubt that in strength they (abstainers) are equal, if 
not superior, to those who live on flesh diet ; while in 
health, so far as my observation and experience go, 
they greatly excel them." During thirty-four years of 
abstinence he had known of no case of injury to young 
or old to arise from such abstinence. This refers to the 
religious community with which he was connected. ^^ 

Sir William Temple wrote : " From all these examples 
and customs it may probably be concluded that the 
common ingredients of health and long life are great 
temperance, open air, easy labour, little care, simplicity 
of diet — rather fruits and plants than flesh (which 
easily corrupts) and water." 

Tryon, in The Way to Health, wrote : " If all men 
would refrain from eating of flesh, there would be no 
cause to complain of want of food." 

]\Ir. Thomas Bailey, in his Records of Longevity, 
wrote : The voice of wisdom and sound philosophy in 
all ages and these records establish the truth, in spite 



328 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of some instances whicli appear to the contrary, that 
temperance, industry, and exercise are the three great 
elements of longevity. In an incomparably greater 
proportion than gluttons and hard drinkers, persons of 
sober and industrious habits have been long livers. 

Many of the aged women were of the very poorest 
class, exposed to severe toil and privation till past 
middle life. 

" Temperance and activity of mind and body are 
certainly the best preservatives of health." Many of 
Mr. Bailey's instances give quite untrustworthy figures 
of old age, but the general impression is probably 
correct. 

The rules of Lessius, a follower of Cornaro, are as 
follows for perfect health : ^''*— Not to eat too much for 
bodily or mental exertion. Not to pass hastily from 
one extreme of living to another. To eat plain and 
wdiolesome food. To avoid too great variety and 
curiously made-up dishes. To use the right proportion 
of food for age, temperament, strength, and occupation. 
Not to allow the appetite to regulate the quantity. 

At a vegetarian annual meeting, the Rev, James 
Brighting (Denton) gave his testimony of excellent 
health during the eighteen months since he adopted 
the fleshless diet. Two meals a day suited him best. 
He could do a fair amount of cycling — seventy-five 
miles before breakfast and seventy- five after ; he could 
do his hard daily work better than previously, and his 
nerves had been wonderfully strengthened. 

Dr. George Black, of Torquay, quoted the Rev. 
Sydney Smith's calculation that between ten and 
seventy he had eaten forty-four waggon-loads of food 
more than was necessary, had thereby starved [taken 



EXPERIENCES AND OIJSERV^ATIONS 329 

food from] at least one Imudred people, and wasted 
about £7000. He gave as the actual dietary of a 
young woman in the country the following — breakfast, 
fried bacon, potatoes, bread, and strong tea ; for lunch, 
bread and cheese and ale ; for dinner, cold beef, 
potatoes, pickles, tea, half a pound of nuts ; for supper, 
pork, pickles, junket, and cream. The result was 
indigestion. " Kant, the German metaphysician, lived 
for thirty years on one meal a day." An old friend of 
Dr. Black, who was forty years in the Intelligence 
Department of the army, had lived twelve years on 
a daily meal, with a cup of coffee and milk for break- 
fast and supper ; he had extraordinary strength, and 
frequently cycled fifty miles before his meal. " After 
careful investigation and experiment, he was convinced 
that a non-flesh diet would enable men and women to 
do better and higher work, to feel stronger, and be 
happier than was possible on a mixed diet." The 
result in his own case was a decided and deliohtful 

CD 

improvement in health." ^^ 

Mrs. Earle wrote in 1903: "The tea question is 
the greatest stumbling-block to everyone, especially 
women. It is a very strong nerve stimulant. . . . 
Anyone who will honestly give it up, gradually, if 
they like, by adding more hot water daily, will, I am 
sure, acknowledge, when they have been on hot water 
and milk, or milk alone, how infinitely better they are 
at the end of six months." " An Eton boy told me 
they ate meat four times a day at Eton, and drank tea 
twice. No wonder that as a rule schoolboys look pale 
and anaemic." . . . "Monkeys which once taste meat 
and alcohol eagerly crave for them, though disease and 
death are generally the result." . . . "In substituting 



330 STRENGTH AND DIET 

tea and coffee, a great injury has been done, and the 
poor suffer now from nervous diseases and mania which 
were ahnost unknown fifty years ago. " ^^ 

Lord Play fair's dictum, "Animal diet is not essential 
to man," might fairly receive this addition, " and is 
not favourable to ethciency." 

Edison, Tolstoi, Maeterlinck, Wagner, and many 
others, are examples of the capacity for mental labour 
which a vegetarian diet maintains. Luther and Sir 
Isaac Newton seem to have been inclined to it. 

I may quote a few more mental workers, whose 
witness to its value is less known. 

Franz Rockicki, a distinguished musician of Berlin, 
was leader of the Berlin Vegetarian Choir. He became 
a vegetarian twenty years before his death, owing to 
bad health, and derived great benefit from the cliange. 

In a book called From World to Cloister, the 
author says : " Although at a period past middle life 
so entire a change of diet was a somewhat perilous 
experiment, it was one which experience has proved to 
agree wonderfully well with me ; ... so that in a few 
months I found myself in better health than I had 
enjoyed in the world." ^"" The present author's experi- 
ence is similar ; though making the change late in life, 
and after many generations of ancestors had lived on 
rich fare, the result was entirelv favourable. And in 
every case known to him there has been benefit ; the 
old, if careful and scientific in their choice of materials, 
are no less helped by it than the young. 

Mr. A. A. Voysey wrote to the Westminster Gazette 
as follows, in September 1904: — "I was a barbarian 
till I met Dr. Haig, and was able to see that he had 
constructed on incontrovertible facts an intelligible 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 331 

science of diet. I have followed the truth he taught 
me, and now not only enjoy a far greater physical and 
mental fitness, but, which is more important, the revela- 
tion of the marvellous connection between the physical 
and moral sides of man, so that I now see in truth 
about diet the great power to regenerate a large section 
of the human race." The vegetarians " are a strono; 
body, probably considerably above the average in 
health, and could far outstrip the best, if they gave up 
tea, coffee, and pulses, and paid a little more attention 
to the proteid value of foods." 

Another witness, Mr. J. F. Partington, wrote,*^ after 
giving up flesh and heavy meals : " Although I am in 
what may be regarded as middle life, I feel younger 
and more sprightly than I did twenty years ago, both 
mentally and physically. That tired feeling so common 
at the close of each day's work is now the exception. 
... It is all a wonderful experience. ... I thought 
I knew formerly what good health was, . . . but now 
I realise what very good health is. . . . My friends 
remark how well I am lookinor." 

At a London Inebriate Home of the Salvation 
Army " the food provided is without stint, varied, 
plain, and wholesome. For nearly three years the 
inmates have been maintained on a vegetarian diet, and 
it has proved a success." " We provide an abundance 
of fruit," say the officers, " as well as vegetables." 
"The women themselves quickly learn to recognise 
that they are better without flesh meat." The 
superintendent and nurses, who were opposed to the 
change, are now strongly supporting it, and are 
themselves prospering converts. Direct information 
reaches me that the improvement since the adoption 



332 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of this diet is great, and that much trouble is saved. 
The inmates are certainly better and happier/^ 

Accordino- to Mr. Gibson Ward, rheumatism is the 
result of acidity of the blood ; " with alkaline blood 
there can be no rheumatism or gout." 

" I will not enumerate the marvellous cures I have 
made with celery." 

" Small quantities of lentils (a peck is sufficient for 
a small family in winter) can be purchased at most 
corn-dealers' in London. I am writing with a full, 
practical knowledge of the subject, having for thirty 
years lived on seeds, vegetables, and fruits, to the total 
exclusion of alcohol, tlesh, and fish. Yet not a man in 
a thousand would compete with me in strength of 
lungs, or many men compete with me in strength of 
limb under equal conditions." ^' 

Mr. Thomas Owen, of Oswestry, mentioned at a 
meeting that he owed his present vigorous health to 
vegetarianism. Forty years ago he was a broken- 
down dyspejDtic, not exj)ected to live long. Prescrip- 
tions of animal food, port wine, stout, brandy and 
water, and medicines only made him grow rapidly 
worse. He then, by reformed diet and bathing, 
gradually cured himself. At sixty-five, he felt so wiry 
and had so much energy that he often chose to run rather 
than walk. His meals were two, consisting mainly of 
brown bread, biscuits, fruit, and nuts ; he drank no tea 
or coffee, and never smoked. He had cycled sixty 
miles before breakfast, having taken nothing since 
6 p.m. but a glass of water. 

Mr. William Harrison, of Manchester, said the 
amount of work performed by Mr. Axon was mar- 
vellous. He himself knew from personal experience 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 333 

how vegetarianism gave strength for work. Twenty- 
five years ago he was a dying man ; now, in his sixty- 
eighth year, he could ride eighty miles on his bicycle, 
and will ride fifteen miles an hour. Recently, he 
walked thirty-six and a half miles without a rest, upon 
four ounces of brown bread, three bananas, and three 
tomatoes. ^*^ 

Mr. J. H. Cousins relates that he was rejected for 
various disorders, chiefly belonging to imperfect diges- 
tion, by an insurance corporation. A year later he 
became a vegetarian, and after another two years 
presented himself again for examination by the medical 
officer. He was passed, the doctor observing, " You 
are one of the best lives I have ever examined." He 
says, " I enjoy the most abundant good health ; my 
capacity for mental work is immeasurably increased." 

Captain F. W. Crosby writes : " I have been a 
vegetarian since 1837. I am fourscore next birthday; 
have just returned from a trip to the desert to examine 
a mine. Slept on the ground ; went down rickety 
ladders into pits a hundred feet deep ; . . • returned 
in perfect condition." "''' 

Mr. Thomas H. Barker, more than thirty years 
Secretary of the United Kingdom Alliance, wrote : " I 
do contend — and I most earnestly believe— that those 
who use Hesh-meat do not, and cannot, enjoy the 
highest physical health and vigour of which they are 
capable ; that, other circumstances being equal, they 
would be healthier, stronger, and happier without the 
iiesh. ... I can myself bear a testimony in favour of 
vegetarianism, based upon thirty years' rigid abstinence 
from fish, flesh, and fowl." 

Councillor Joseph Malins gave very strong testi- 



334 STRENGTH AND DIET 

mouy, from personal experience, in favour of vege- 
tarianism. It had " attractiveness so far as palate 
and body are concerned. I must also admit that a 
gradual change of mind and disposition began to mani- 
fest itself." Dislike of the sight of raw flesh and the 
smell of dead fish was succeeded by pity for the brute 
creation, which suffered so terribly, and by thankful- 
ness for not personally bringing about the sufferings 
of sentient beings."*' 

Dr. Adam Ferguson, of Edinburgh,^' the historian, 
after strokes of paralysis, became a Pythagorean at sixty, 
eating nothing but vegetables, and drinking water and 
milk. He got rid of every paralytic symptom, became 
robust and muscular, and lived to ninety-three. Sir 
Walter Scott described him as having been, " long after 
his eightieth year, one of the most striking old men it 
was possible to look at. The mixture of original 
thinkino; with hio;h moral feeling^ and extensive learn- 
ing, his 'love of country, contempt of luxury, and 
especially the strong subjection of his passions and 
feelings to the dominion of his reason, made him 
perhaps the most striking example of the Stoic philo- 
sopher which could be seen in modern days."^'' 

Mr. James Parrott, of South Shore, " had been 
[in 1896] a vegetarian for fifty years ; although he has 
entered his ninety-fourth year, he is as active as most 
men of sixty." ^'^ 

Mr. O'Connor, a non -vegetarian, observed that the 
people of his district in Ireland were perforce vege- 
tarians, and throve. The only man who had afforded 
himself flesh diet had the gout. Professor Mayor 
brought forward the fact that Mr. Arnold Hills, head 
of the Thames Iron Works, is a vegetarian, and that 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 335 

some puddlers there, who were vegetarians, were 
entirely free from the exhaustion from which the 
flesh-eatiuo- workmen sufFered.^^ 

The Nmv York Examiner gives an account of how 
a formerly weakly and rheumatic boy won the Neiv 
York JournctVs prize for the best all-round physical 
development out of 5139 candidates. His regener- 
ation began at seventeen, by pure food and pure 
water, deep breathing exercises in the open air, and 
abstinence from flesh, tobacco, tea, coffee, and stimu- 
lants.^- 

Mrs. Grace B. Hort died on 9th April 1904, at 
ninety. She never tasted fish or flesh throughout 
life. She was born in Yorkshire in 1814, and settled 
in Philadelphia in 1831.^^ 

A Greek lady, who refers to the ancient training 
of Greeks on figs, barley, bread, and vegetable oil, 
describes herself as having ahvays suffered from 
neuralgia or anaemia so long as she lived on the usual 
butcher's meat, stout, etc. After adopting the re- 
formed diet, she had no return of these troubles, 
dispensed with drugs, and could walk three times as 
far with half the fatigue of former efforts.^* 

One of London's greatest authorities on dietary 
said : " Oatmeal is the richest of all cereals in 
nutritive properties. It is particularly rich in . . , 
all the essentials for building up blood, bone, and 
muscle." 

A Scotch doctor used oatmeal himself for nearly 
eighty years, and his family of three stalwart sons 
and two daughters derived equal benefit from this 
diet. 

The city analyst of Edinburgh considers oatmeal 



336 STRENGTH AND DIET 

one of the finest foods that can be had, for all who 
can digest it.^^ 

An army doctor found it very satisfactory for 
convalescents from typhoid in the South African war.^*' 

Yet, in Scotland, and " even in the Highlands, 
people have largely given up oatmeal for white bread 
and strong tea." " 

The following is the testimony of Mr. J. Hayward, 
a coal-heaver, in 1903:" — "Whole-meal bread has 
been my staple food for over twenty years. I am 
still a coal-heaver, and find the more I cut my wants 
down, the better I am. I can truly say, with the 
poet, ' My riches consist not in wealth, but in the 
fewness of my wants.'" His meals consist of bread, 
vegetables, nuts, and cereals. 

Mr. Albert Broadbent wrote, in 1903, the follow- 
ing notes :^^ — Of sugar. Great Britain consumes 86 lb. ; 
the United States, 64 ; Denmark and Switzerland, 45 ; 
Germany, Holland, and France, about 30 per head. 

According to Haig, atheroma of the blood-vessels 
is always associated with pressure and strain. 

Vegetables should always be steamed or eaten 
with the water in which they were boiled. 

Arrowroot, corn Hour, etc., and many prepared 
foods are deprived of valuable qualities. 

Potash salts are exceedingly useful in dissolving 
out rheumatic and gouty poisons. 

Brantia, a strong infusion from one tablespoonful 
of bran per head, is very useful as being especially rich 
in potash and soluble phosphates. 

Mr. Samuel Saunders, of Market Lavington, now 
eighty-eight, states that he has — for breakfast, three 
ounces of sharps or whole meal or Quaker oats, as 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 337 

porridge, two tablespoonfuls of plasnion, the yolk of 
an egg ; for dinner, a small plate of three vegetables, 
three dessertspoonfuls of brown bread crumbs, a small 
plate of milk or fruit pudding ; for supper, a cupful 
of barley-water, with a dessertspoonful of carnos, six 
slices of thin bread and butter, two roasted apples. 
This costs eightpence a day. No tea, coffee, or cocoa, 
or condiment. He has never had a headache or any 
serious illness. He had taken no intoxicants for 
seventy-two years, no flesh or fish for sixty-two years, 
and never any tobacco. 

Mr. Thomas, seventy-nine, and of great energy, 
eats largely bread and jam, about one egg daily, 
plain vegetables, and very weak tea. 

Whole wheat is very useful in cases of anaemia. 
(See Bunge's Experiments.) "It is remarkable that 
wherever we find a race of men retaining primitive 
milling customs, or living on uucorrupted grain food, 
we find their teeth strong and free from decay." 

Mr. Albert Carter, surgeon-dentist, related some 
years ago that he found the natives of the Punjab 
and North -West Provinces, whether Hindoo, Sikhs, 
Punjabees, Afghans, or Goorkas, had splendid teeth. 
Brahmin skulls found on the banks of the Ganges 
showed no case of general dental decay such as he 
was acquainted with at home. In Ceylon, the native 
Singalese had good teeth, the children of European 
parents had dreadfully bad teeth. In Australia, the 
aborigines had splendid teeth, the colonial population 
very bad teeth. Edwin Cox, licentiate in dental 
surgery, ascribes teeth degeneracy to white bread. 
[Hot tea, etc., frequently accompanies poor food.] 

With good whole-meal bread, says Mr. Broadbent, 

22 



338 STRENGTH AND DIET 

constipation, neuralgia, and tootliaclie decline, and the 
teeth are strengthened. It is a most difficult thing to 
get a pure whole-wheat meal. Hovis bread is next 
best to whole meal ; it contains more proteid than 
ordinary bread. 

There is o-reat harm in eatinsj fruit to excess. Two 
or three apples or their ecjuivalent is cjuite sufficient 
Excess of fruit is apt to cause acidity, nervous attacks, 
piles, and rheumatism. Starch with vegetables was 
found to occupy about a third of the time taken by 
starch with fruit juice in digestion. 

The veterinary surgeon Simon, Director of Public 
Slaughter-Houses at Gorlitz, Germany, speaking of a 
strict vegetarian on military service with him, describes 
him as quite equal to the severe discipline, and sus- 
taining the long and heavy marches with far less 
fatigue than his comrades, whose daily rations included 
flesh.''^ 

Herr Max Bohm, as a boy, determined not to eat 
animal flesh, which he disliked. His enraged father 
horsewhipped him for his obstinacy, but the boy 
declared he would be beaten to death rather than eat 
flesh, and in the end suceeded in his object. 

Herr Weilshauser was turned from flesh-eating by 
the sight of a butchered calf which turned its dying 
eyes upon him. The same impressive appeal changed 
the life of an English boy, now an athletic vegetarian. 

An advertisement offered light work to a youth. 
This turned out to include chopping ofi" the heads of 
sixty geese in succession. The horror of such a buisness 
caused the "light" workman to escape by night from 
his employer's house. ^° 

Mr. Joseph Wilson signed the pledge in 1848, and 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 339 

has been a vegetarian for about fifty-three years. At 
the annual meeting of the Vegetarian Society in 1897 
he stated that " his life had been rendered immeasur- 
ably happier by the adoption of vegetarianism," 
therefore he advised everyone to adopt that delight- 
ful way of making themselves healthier and their 
lives more enjoyable/^ 

A correspondent writes, in the course of a recent 
article "^^ on diet for the hot weather, that an ordinary 
man w^eighing 10 st, and leading an active life can get 
all he wants from 1 lb. of bread, 1 oz. of cheese, 2 oz. 
of rice, 12 oz. of vegetables, and a quart of milk, Ijut 
by trebling the amount of cheese the quantity of milk 
might be halved. 

When flesh meat and tea and coffee are aljout 
to be discarded, the meat may at first be left out from 
one meal and the tea and coffee made weaker, for 
the sudden dropping of these is likely to produce 
temporary headache in those accustomed to them. 

The slight depression often caused by the disuse 
of flesh, tea, etc., is owing, according to Dr. Haig, to 
the excess of uric acid in the blood, which is soon 
eliminated, and the depression is soon succeeded by a 
sense of greater fitness and alacrity. 

There is far greater variety in the cereals, fruits, 
nuts, cheeses, etc., than in the variously dressed dishes 
of beef, mutton, pork, and poultry. 

A traveller of last century made the following 
remarks on the people of some of the South Sea 
Islands : "I am inclined to think that the people of 
the Marquesas and Washington Islands excel in beauty 
and grandeur of form, in regularity of features and of 
colour, all the other South Sea Islanders. The men 



340 STRENGTH AND DIET 

are almost all tall, robust, and well made. We did 
not see a single cripple, nor deformed person, but 
such general beauty and regularity of form, that it 
greatly excited our astonishment. Many of them 
might well have been placed by the side of the most 
celebrated masterpieces of antiquity. . . . The food of 
the people consists of bread-fruit, cocoa-nuts, bananas, 
yams, batatas, etc., and mostly in a natural state." 

Adam Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, mentions 
that the most beautiful women of the British 
dominions are said to be, the greater part of them, 
from the lower rank of the people of Ireland, who 
are generally fed on potatoes. The peasantry of 
Lancashire and Cheshire, whose fjire was somewhat 
similar, have been likewise praised for comeliness. 

Mr. Cunynghame wTote in the Nineteenth Century 
respecting diet in Persia : " It is possible to live, and 
to live well, on dates and maust (curdled milk). And 
Englishmen can do it, for I have myself." [This is 
the common food in Baghdad.] " One gets thin, but 
keeps the most excellent condition, and feels really 
fresher, healthier, and readier for the road than the 
occupant of a luxurious habitation in London. The 
Persians delight in roast lamb, chicken, pillaus, and 
Shiraz wine. 

"The Russian needs good schi or borsch, cabbage 
or beetroot soup, with meat in it if possible. 

" I find that a British labourer in hard work spends 
4d. for breakfast of coffee, a bloater, or bacon ; 8d. for 
dinner of potatoes, cabbage, and meat ; and 4d. for 
tea. The cost is fourteen times the Indian's fare. 

" My next-door neighbour in a Russian village got 
up at 4 a.m. and worked till 9 p.m. The peasants 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 341 

round me had milk, curds, and potatoes, and a fish 
cake for breakfast, cabbage soup, gruel, vegetables, 
and sour milk ; and, by no means every day, meat for 
dinner. Tea, bread, and cheese, and supper before 
bed." ^2 

Mr. William Couchman related at a meeting in 
1875 that after a terrible accident, by which his head 
was severely damaged and his scalp nearly removed, 
and when he had recovered consciousness, he, being a 
vegetarian, refused to eat the mutton chops and drink 
the brandy and light wine prescribed, and kept to his 
usual fare of brown bread, stewed apples, haricot 
beans, rice, and vegetables, adding eggs beaten up in 
milk. The doctor declined responsibility for the 
consecpiences. His blood was pure, and the wound, 
which was extremely serious, healed wonderfully. The 
doctor admitted that unless he had been in a condition 
much better than that of most men, the accident would 
have been fatal. 

Archdeacon Govett of Gibraltar writes :''^ " Recent 
physiological science seems to be evidencing the 
superiority of a sound, sweet, cleanly, wholesome, and 
unstimulating diet of fruit and vegetables. ... As a 
total abstainer of twenty-three years' experience, I am 
convinced that such a regime immensely diminishes 
the craving for alcoholics ; and Inebriate Homes are 
now being successfully conducted on the principle." 

Pastor Loughborough, of Oakland, California, 
writes in response to my inquiries: "My being still 
in active service at seventy-three is not due to a 
vigorous constitution by inheritance, for I was a feeble, 
sickly child from birth. At two I had scarlet fever, 
from which I never fully recovered until after adopt- 



342 STRENGTH AND DIET 

ing the proper diet. At eighteen I had a slight 
haemorrhage from the lungs. By the excessive use of 
animal foods — pork, beef, etc. — and pepper, mustard, 
sharp pickles, etc., I injured myself; at thirty-one I 
was supposed to be in the first stage of consumption. 
In 1863 my attention was called more fully to the 
question of the right food for the health of man. 
Gradually I left off beef and mutton, and at once pork, 
tea, coffee, spices, etc. Within a year all desire 
for flesh food was lost. In three months my cough 
entirely ceased, and my lungs were strong. From 
1864 I rarely used a little fish, and occasionally a very 
small portion of beef. From 1885 I left off entirely 
the use of flesh food. From 1864 onwards I have not 
used 5 lb. of animal food. My diet consists of grains, 
nuts, fruits, and the finer qualities of vegetables. 
Last year, during four months, I travelled 6670 
miles by railway, attended 175 public meetings, in 103 
of which I preached the sermon. During the last three 
months I have written a book of 551 pages." *^'^ 

Mr. A. H. Frank, a well-known inventor and manu- 
facturer in the United States, wrote from Bufifalo in 
1888: "At the age of fifty-eight I was what you 
might call a pretty well used-up man. Six years ago 
last Auo;ust I discarded all flesh meats and animal 
fats, and have since that time greatly improved in 
health. . . . Tea and coffee I place with tobacco and 
alcohol drinks, and use none of them. ... I am past 
sixty-four, have excellent health. ... I can do more 
work, either mental or physical than on a mixed 
diet. . . . My principal food is fruit and bread, with 
no salt. I occasionally eat vegetables, which I salt a 
little. ... I can live on anywhere from two to twelve 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 343 

cents [say threepence] a day. ... I did two men's hard 
work eating nothing but one pound of corn a day. , . . 
My day's work commences usually at 4.30 a.m., and 
ends at 5.30 p.m., after which I drive two miles and 
care for my horse, and often do my cooking." ^^ 

Mr. Henry Cunynghame, C.B., wrote as follows in 
1903: "The very high value of bread and other 
cereals will come as a surprise to those who have not 
read modern works on the subject. That a pound of 
bread should have as much nourishing power as a 
pound of meat (flesh), or that a pound of dried peas 
should have a greater value than either, is quite 
against our English roast beef theories. But it 
explains the healthy lives led by Scottish gillies and 
Swiss shepherds who live on oatmeal and other grains, 
only varying it by cheese, which has a nutritive value 
half as great again as either bread or meat. The 
labourer is not to be pitied with his dish of beans and 
bacon if he can get enough of it. 

"It is for this reason that good whole-meal bread 
is such an excellent food for old people and children, 
and especially for those [persons] who suffer from 
gout."^' 

Mr. M'Knio-ht gives the foUowino- as suitable food 

o o o 

for the tropics : Fish, beans, or peas for proteid ; 
millet, manioc, yam, etc., for starch ; ground-nut oil, 
til oil, etc., for fat. 

Millet is the predominant grain of tropical Africa. 
Watt says that to the vast majority of the people of 
India, jowar and bajra are of more importance than 
wheat or rice. The seeds are orround into meal or Hour 
and eaten as cakes or porridge. 

Ragi is grown in Southern India, Mysore, and 



344 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Ceylon ; manioc or cassava in tropical America ; soy 
bean in China, Japan, etc., for bean cheese. For 
nitrogenous food it is excellent. Palm butter is a 
product of Africa. ^^ 

In January 1903 an account was published ^^ of Mr. 
Horace Fletcher's discovery of the value of slow eating, 
small meals, and thorough mastication. The system 
of mastication and sipping is, according to him, a 
panacea for indigestion and other ailments. In his 
words, the experiments of Professor Chittenden, at 
Yale, based upon discoveries by Mr. Fletcher and his 
colleagues during six years, show that " the human 
machine " fed on " from one-third to one-half of what it 
has been tauoht to consume" maintains "more than 
double the ordinary strength, endurance, and general 
efficiency." 

" It means keenness, elasticity, mental alertness, 
and a surplus of energy always at command, a constant 
tone of muscular fitness which makes it possible to 
indulge in unusual mental or physical exercise without 
fear of muscular fatigue." Mr. Stapleton, the champion 
wrestler of America, improved under the system from 
4500 to over 8000 units of efiiciency. The increase 
of strength of six soldiers was from about 100 to 200 
per cent. In no circumstances, said the athlete to 
Professor Sherrington, of Liverpool, would he return 
to a careless and excessive diet. 

For five years Mr. Fletcher has lived on one-third 
of the food a healthy working-man eats. At fifty- 
four years of age, he rides his bicycle one hundred 
miles a day, and does athletic training at any time. 
He has the patience to chew a piece of bread sixty 
times. °^ 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 345 

The results attained by Mr. Fletcher, and the way 
of health which he demonstrates, are certainly well 
worthy of attention. 

As Mr. Eustace Miles observes : "The healthy man 
leaves himself entirely in the hands of his cook or his 
restaurateur. Hence the healthy man runs serious 
risks of becoming an invalid. Very few escape the 
horrors of dyspepsia. Many become martyrs to gout, 
develop gastric ulcers, provoke apoplexy, or disable 
themselves with corpulency." The annual exodus to 
foreign watering-places proves how greatly we misuse 
food.'° 

An example of restoration to strong life by the 
vegetable regime is given in 1850 by a stone-mason 
who had suffered much from ill-health and become 
quite weak. After living a short time on fruits and 
fiirinacea, he wrote : "I now get on first-rate, and 
keep in excellent health, entirely without the use of 
medicine ; and altogether I feel in a blessed state of 
existence. I am more buoyant in spirits, more agile ; 
my physical energy is increased, and altogether I enjoy 
a new Lije. ' 

The followins; observations on dietetics were 
contributed by Miss Florence Sexton : — 

The men in Ayrshire enjoy excellent health, but 
the women suffer greatly from headache and stomach 
troubles and rheumatism. About 2 lb. of flesh meat 
serves four or five persons for a week. Tea is largely 
used, and porridge and potatoes. 

Flesh foods should not be suddenly discarded ; the 
change sometimes causes severe depression. Most 
people can make the change quickly without harm. 

Let the person who makes a change in diet study 



346 STRENGTH AND DIET 

the composition of food stuffs. He should know, e.g.^ 
that nuts are rich in proteid and fat ; corn flour, 
potatoes, and rice in starch ; beetroot in sugar ; fruits 
and orpeen vegetables in salts and water. He should 
know what substances contain uric acid or any 
poisonous alkaloid. Let him know how much proteid 
his ])ody requires, for quiet life and for hard work. 
He should carefully avoid those particular articles 
which in his particular case are harmful. 

Statements of percentage nutritive value are very 
misleading if used as guides without ample qualifica- 
tion. Whole-meal bread is given as of 55 per cent., 
rice of 88 per cent., and sugar of 100 per cent, 
nutritive value, yet whole-meal bread is the best food 
of these three (if properly made), rice being deficient in 
proteid and sugar containing none. 

Food tables make beans, etc., appear far higher in 
proteid value than beef, but beef loses water while 
beans take up water in cooking. 

Sugar is poisonous to many gouty people, both 
beef and beans are intolerable, except in small 
quantities, to others, and the excess of uric acid or 
xanthine in animal flesh, pulses, and tea and coffee 
piles up the material for serious diseases. 

The difference of percentage of proteid (the main 
element of nourishment) in beans, raw and cooked, is 
very great, the cooked beans apparently containing 
less than a quarter of the amount per cent, in dry, raw 
beans.^^ 

Mr. Perky has established a great institution at 
Niagara Falls for the manufacture of " natural food." 
Mr. Perky turned his mind to the science of food some 
years ago, when his health broke down, and, in his 



EXPERIE^XES AND OBSERVATIONS 347 

own words, be, from the most aljject physical wreck, 
succeeded, by the use of naturally organised food, in 
rebuilding his body into a perfectly healthy condition. 
" Take a grain of wheat and analyse it, and it is the 
most beautiful thing on earth under the microscope ; 
there is nothing to equal it. The outer bran is what 
we call waste, and there are five bran coats. Between 
the two next are found the insoluble phosphates that 
build the teeth and bone. The miller takes that 
off and oives it to the hoo's. 

"Between the next two layers is found cerealine, 
a species of diastase, that, when brought between the 
teeth and masticated, mixed with the saliva, operates to 
digest the starcli, and without it you cannot digest it 
[the starch] properly. Farther along, when you get into 
the centre of the o-rain, there it is a Q'erm, the livins; 
principle." 

" There is no crime that I know of," Mr. Perky 
declared, " that in my judgment equals the crime of the 
white-flour man, unless it is that of the man who 
bricks up his chimneys and compels his family to 
breathe over and over again the air that has been 
devitalised, out of which the oxygen has been burned 
by the stove." 

This is the time people begin to grow up with poor 
teeth and with catarrh, and that malady is general. 
To be healthy and vigorous the food must contain the 
material that makes teeth, bone, muscle, nerve, brain, 
also the material for heat and energy. The mother 
should simplify the diet of her family and use only 
such foods as contain the material to build the body 
properly. We know how to build horses and cattle, 
but the human being is sacrificed to ignorance. 



348 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Mr. Perky intended educating at his Institute two 
hundred and fifty girls in cookery, chemistry of food, 
marketing, house economics, laundry, sewing, physical 
culture, sanitation, physiology, physics, the care of 
infants, first aid, and nature study, with the view of 
instructing the public on primary matters of health.'^ 

The following passages are, I think, sufficiently apt 
for quotation. Sentiment and aspiration are as much 
a part of humanity, and as worthy of the regard of 
science, as material facts. 



" Some, as tliou sawest, by violent stroke shall die, 
By fire, flood, famine ; by intemperance more 
In meats and drinks, which on the earth shall bring 
Diseases dire." 

— Milton. 



Pythagoras speaks (through the Roman tongue) 

" He first the taste of flesh from tables drove, 
And argued well, if arguments could move : 
O mortals ! from your fellows' blood abstain. 
Nor taint your bodies with a food profane. 



*' impious we ! to Nature's laws opposed : 
AVhere bowels are in other bowels closed ; 
AVhere fattened by their fellows' fat they thrive, 
Maintained by murder, and by death they live. 



" What else is this but to devour our guests. 
And barbarously renew Cyclopean feasts ? 



" Whoever was the wretch, and cursed be he 
That envied first our food's simplicity, 
The essay of bloody feasts on brutes began, 
And after forged the sword to murder man ? " 

—Ovid. 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 349 

" While Heaven, the universal Friend, 
Fills high the cup of woe 
Of fear and shame and vengeance dire 
For man, the universal foe. 

" lone Humanity ! to the fell race 
Thy soul-subduing gifts impart, 
That every Love and every Grace 
On their ensanguined work may smile 
And triumph in their heart. 
So shall their hands from carnage cease, 
And high upon thine altar pile 
The fruits of charity and peace." — Thomas Younc4. 

" Never to blend our pleasure or our pride 
With sorrow of the meanest thing that feels." 

— Wordsworth. 
" No flocks that range the valley free 
To slaughter I condemn ; 
Taught by the power that pities me 

I learn to pity them." — Goldsmith's Hermit. 

Coleridge wrote his well known verses, "He prayeth 
best, who loveth best," in the same spirit. 

" Man, once fleeting o'er the transient scene. 
Swift as an unremembered vision, stands 
Immortal upon earth ! No longer now 
He slays the lamb that looks him in the face 
And horribly devours his mangled flesh, 
Which, still avenging Nature's broken law, 
Kindled all putrid humours in his frame, 
All evil passions, and all vain belief. 
Hatred, despair, and loathing in his mind, 
The germs of misery, death, disease, and crime. 
No longer now the winged inhabitants. 
That in the woods their sweet lives sing away. 
Flee from the form of man ; but gather round 
And prune their sunny feathers on the hands 
Which little children stretch in friendly sport 
Towards these dreadless partners of their play. 
All things are void of terror : Man has lost 
His terrible prerogative, and stands 
An equal amidst equals ; happiness 
And science dawn, though late, upon the earth." — Shelley. 



350 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In liis " Vindication of a Natural Diet," Shelley 
wrote : 

" There never was an instance wherein a change 
from spirituous liquors and animal food to vegetables 
and pure water have failed ultimately to invigorate the 
body, by rendering its juices bland and consentaneous, 
and to restore to the mind that cheerfulness and elas- 
ticity which not one in fifty possesses on the present 
system." 

" Crime is madness. Madness is disease. When- 
■ever the cause of disease shall be discovered, the root 
from which all vice and misery have so long over- 
shadowed the globe will lay bare to the axe." 

" The system of a simple diet . . . strikes at the 
root of all evil. ... In no cases has a return to 
vegetable diet produced the slightest injury." . . . 
^' By all that is sacred in our hopes of the human race, 
I conjure those who love happiness and truth to give a 
fair trial to the vegetable system." 

Shelley then relates from his personal knowledge 
how seventeen persons had lived for seven years on 
the natural diet, without a death and almost without 
the slightest illness. Some of these were infants, one 
a martyr to asthma " now nearly subdued." 

"The most fertile districts of the habitable globe 
are now actually cultivated by men for animals, at a 
delay and waste of aliment absolutely incapable of 
calculation." 

" The advantage of a reform in diet is obviously 
greater than that of any other." 

" The proselyte to a pure diet . . . will be," after 
a short time, " equally capable of bodily exertion or 
mental application, after, as before, his simple meal." 



EXPERIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 351 

He will find a simple meal of various vegetables 
and fruits satisfying in a high degree to the pleasures 
of taste. 

" All depends upon breaking through a pernicious 
habit resolutely and at once." 

The following passage represents the teaching of 
Gotama, the greatest of the Eastern world : — 

" But Buddha softly said : 
' Let him not strike, great King ! ' and therewith loosed 
The victim's bonds, none staying him, so great 
His presence was. Then, craving leave, he spake 
Of life, which all can take, but none can give — 
Life, which all creatures love and strive to keep, 
Wonderful, dear, and pleasant unto each, 
Even to the meanest ; yea, a boon to all 
Where pity is, for pity makes the world 
Soft to the weak and noble to the strong. 
Unto the dumb lips of his flock he lent 
Sad pleading words, showing how man, who prays 
For mercy to the gods, is merciless, 
Being as god to those ; albeit all life 
Is linked and kin, and what we slay have given 
Meek tribute of the milk and wool, and set 
Fast trust upon the hands that murder them. 

While still our Lord went on, teaching how fair 
This earth were if all living things be linked 
In friendliness and common use of foods. 
Bloodless and pure ; the golden grain, bright fruits, 
Sweet herbs which grow for all, the waters wan. 
Sufficient drinks and meats. Which when these heard. 
The might of gentleness so conquered them. 
The priests themselves scattered their altar-flames 
And flung away the steel of sacrifice ; 

So ran the edict, and from those days forth 
Sweet peace hath spread between all living kind." 

The Light of Asia — Edwin Arnold. 



CHAPTER IX 

Medical Testimony and Expeeiences on Diet 

In adduciuo; evidence from some of the most distin- 
oTiislied medical men of our time, and of earlier 
periods, on tlie subject of food, I wish to state clearly 
that I do not think it necessary to go back to those 
who have expressed opinions common in their day 
favourable to a very full or rich dietary, or to copious 
potations of port or other wine, or to articles of 
nutrition which are now known by well-tested experi- 
ment to be of little if any value. And as regards the 
use of animal flesh, I have not included many who 
advise it, for we may, I think, assume that the majority 
of the profession are still trained under the old system 
— still have the flesh of quadrupeds on their tables, and 
still recommend it. This may be taken for granted. I 
wish rather to bring forward the views of a very strong 
and capable body of witnesses, competent physicians, 
with wide experience, who find that life and health 
can be sustained at least as well on the products of 
plants. In earlier chapters I have given the opinions 
of some of the greatest physiologists on this subject. 
But in the present chapter will be found abundant 
testimony of high importance on the food question in 
general, from masters in medicine and hygiene. 

The first witness, one who gave very special atten- 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 353 

tion to diet, became more and more convinced in his 
later life of the damage to vast numbers of people 
which follows from excess, especially in flesh-eating. 

" I have come to the conclusion," Sir Henry 
Thompson wrote, " that more than half the disease 
that embitters life is due to avoidable errors in diet, 
. . . and that more mischief, in the shape of actual 
disease, of impaired vigour, and of shortened life, 
accrues to civilised man from erroneous habits of 
eating than from the habitual use of alcoholic drink, 
considerable as I know that evil to be." 

Dr. John Hunter was subject to gout, and found 
in apples, or probably in a very light dietary, a remedy 
for his sufferings. He insisted that all his patients 
should discard wine and roast beef, and use apples 
freely. 

Dr. Parkes sums up his observations on animal and 
vegetable diets as follows: "The meat-eater and the 
man who lives on corn or peas and rice, are all equally 
well nourished. . . . The rapid movements of the 
carnivora have been contrasted wdth the slow, dull 
action of domestic cattle ; but not to speak of the 
horse, whoever has seen the lightning movements of 
the wild antelope or cow, or even of the wild pig, which 
is herbivorous in many cases, can doubt that vegetable 
feeders can exert a movement even more rapid and 
more endurino- than the tis^er or the wolf? " 

As regards the tendency to gout, he says : " Very 

often large meat-eaters are not gouty, and do not 

appear in any way overfed. In this case, either a 

great amount of exercise is taken, or, as is often the 

case in these persons, the meat is not absorbed, owing 

frequently to imperfect mastication." ^ 
23 



354 STRENGTH AND DIET 

With regard to the food of British troops in India, 
Parkes wrote : " It has been stated by several of the 
best observers in the tropics, that those who eat 
largely of animal food are less healthy than those who 
take more vegetable food ; and Friedel, in his work on 
China, has lately again directed attention to the fact 
that the amount of digestive and hepatic disease is 
much greater among the English than among any 
other European settlers in China. But whether this is 
owing to excess of animal food or excess generally in 
all food, and to too much wine, l^eer, and spirits, is 
uncertain. 

" The use of aoes has accustomed the Hindoo to 

O 

the custom of taking large quantities of rice, with 
pulses or corn. Put a European on this diet, and he 
could not at first digest it ; the very bulk would be 
too much for him. The Hindoo, with this diet, is 
obliged to take large quantities of condiments. The 
European who did the same would produce acute 
gastric catarrh and hepatic congestion in a very short 
time. 

Two points, says Dr. Parkes, are quite clear. 
Spirits are most hurtful ; wine and beer must be taken 
in great moderation. And the use of fruits is of great 
importance. 

In regard to health in India, Sir Joseph Fayrer 
advised that: "New arrivals should abstain from 
much animal and stimulating food, with a view to 
avoid plethora, dyspepsia, mal-assimilation, and con- 
gestion of the already overtaxed liver and eliminating 
organs. Curries, as generally prepared, should be 
sparingly consumed. It is not advisable to copy the 
natives in resj^ect to diet. ... By degrees the food 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 355 

may be modified to suit the altered conditions of 
climate. . . . As a rule, people eat too mucli in 
India. 

" As to wine, beer, and spirits, . . . their use is, at 
least, an acquired habit in healthy young men and 
women. . . . Whatever may be said on other grounds, 
it cannot be regarded as an absolute necessity for 
them at least. 

" We wish it to be clearly understood that we do 
not advocate the use of alcoholic stimulants except as 
medicine." 

Cold tea, not too strong, and jj)w?'<? water are 
recommended. 

The constant daily habit of excessive smoking, 
over a long series of years, produces much functional 
mischief and misery. It frequently disturbs the 
equilibrium of the nervous system and the action of 
the heart, causing nervousness, giddiness, muscular 
tremor, and palpitation. It impairs digestion, de- 
presses the system mentally and physically, and 
muddles the intellectual faculties. Cancer of the lip 
and tongue, and chronic inflammation of the back and 
sides of the throat, are often ascribed to it, as cancer 
of the oesophagus and stomach have been attributed 
to chewing and snuffing.^ 

Dr. de Chaumont, F.R.S., spoke in 1879 to the 
following; effect : ^ — There is a form of starvation not 
only common but almost universal among the poorer 
classes of the people ; this kind of starvation depends 
upon the neglect or want of vegetable food. This 
starvation formerly caused terrible ravages in the 
army and navy, resulting in scurvy. A good supply 
of vegetables is necessary for health. Potatoes are 



356 STRENGTH AND DIET 

valuable, but by peeling them before cooking we lose 
the most valuable part of the juice ; they should be 
steamed, stewed, or made into soup. 

" Another form of starvation is the want of nitro- 
genous or flesh-forminof food. This food is best known 
in the form of meat, eggs, cheese, or milk, but it exists 
in large quantities also in flour, oatmeal, Indian meal 
(maize), and especially in beans, peas, and lentils. 
These last — peas, beans, and lentils — are most nourish- 
ing, and ought to be much more used than they are ; 
they contain much more of the flesh-forming food than 
the best meat." 

"Fat is a most essential thins;, and no hard work 
can be well done without it. ... If children could be 
more generally fed on milk in their earliest years, and 
get a fair share of butter when they are able to eat it, 
they would be not only more healthy themselves, but 
would also be the parents of a healthy off"spring." Dr. 
de Chaumont then condemns the common practice of 
feeding infants with starchy food which they are unable 
to dio;est. 

Dr. Hutchison, in his work on Food, says that 
whole-meal bread is in the end rather less nutritious 
than white bread ; but at the same time it may be 
much more wholesome, for it contains phosphates, etc. 
which are lacking in the white, and certain mineral 
constituents in small quantity are of great importance 
to the constitution. Dr. Haio- ag;rees w^ith Dr. Hutchi- 
son as to the failure of the digestion to deal with the 
branny parts of the wheat, and the consequent waste, 
but seems further to object to the whole-meal on account 
of "uric acid" or its equivalent. This seems to be 
going to an extreme of exclusion. Meanwhile, perhaps 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 357 

the safest bread-stuff to rely upon is "seconds," flour and 
" super-cooked" meals. The crust of bread, well baked, 
is known to be much more nourishing than the crumb. 

In an address given at a later date,'* Dr. Hutchison 
stated that under-feeding is habitual in the East of 
London. Insutiicient food causes a craving for alcohol. 
A good diet can be obtained for 4d. a day ; the work- 
man spends 7d. "I advise the buying of more vegetable 
foods, particularly peas, l;)eans, lentils, and cheap fish. 
Cheese, cooked in a digestible way as the Italians do, 
is a valuable article of diet." " I strongly recommend 
one good meal of oatmeal a day, instead of so much 
bread, butter, and tea, which is the staple diet of so 
many poor families, because it is so easily prepared. 
Skimmed milk contains all the original proteids. 
Margarine is quite as nourishing as butter, and better 
than jam." 

Dr. T. K. Chambers has made the folio win o- o-eneral 
observations : '' — 

No food has been found so suitable for the young 
of all animals as their mother's milk. The wholesomest 
food for the first six months is milk alone. Later, 
some food in addition may be given cautiously, of a 
character adapted to the child's condition and constitu- 
tion. A little broth, chicken soup, with cream and 
sugar, tops and bottoms, etc., may be tried ; but " the 
consequences of premature weaning are insidious. The 
external aspect of the child is that of health, its 
muscles are strong, but the bones do not harden in 
proportion, and if it tries to walk, its limbs give way, 
and it is said to be suffering from rickets. These 
consequences follow in other animals as surely as in 
the human race." 



358 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In later years, up to at least fourteen or fifteen, 
"the rule should be four meals a clay, after that three 
full meals a day are generally sufficient. 

" Up to the period of full development the daily use 
of wine should be allowed only during illness and the 
express attendance of a medical adviser." 

For laborious work, digestible nitrogenous food, 
meat par excellence, must be provided. A contractor 
for railways in Sicily found the \vork done by Sicilian 
navvies considerably increased, almost up to the British 
average, by paying the men partly in meat. 

" It is absolutely essential that the fleshly machinery 
for doing work should be continuously replaced by flesh 
food, as it becomes worn out." [But see infra in the 
same article.] 

By experiments with soldiers marching twenty 
miles a day with loads of 56 lb. each, it was found 
that meat-extract was better than stimulants. [Might 
not even hot water have been proved superior to wine 
or spirits ? Beef- tea is now proved to be of hardly any 
nutritive value.] 

The Oxford system of training twenty-five years 
ago gave meat and bread for breakfast and for dinner, 
with vegetables and beer added, and much the same 
for supper as for dinner. 

" Indigestion, sleeplessness, nervous indecision, 
palpitation of heart, irregularity of bowels, disappear 
under training." 

A small quantity of alcohol was considered bene- 
ficial. " Life is fuller and more complete, old flesh 
is removed and food appropriated as new flesh 
somewhat more quickly than when no alcohol is 
ingested." 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 359 

[Recent physiological science does not, on the whole, 
confirm these opinions.] 

" Rest from brain-work for twenty minutes before 
meals, entire abstinence from it during meals, and rest 
again till the weight has passed off the stomach, are 
essential to the reconcilement of physical exertion with 
bodily health." 

In acute rheumatism and acute gout, " if meat in 
any form, solid or liquid, be eaten, it seems to turn 
into acid, which is already in excess in the blood." 

Chronic o;out " is due to crood cheer indulged in 

o o o 

either by the sufferer or by his ancestors. . . . The 
children of gouty families should be brought up to a 
life of strict abstemiousness and muscular activity." 
This regimen is therefore proper for a very large pro- 
portion of the members of the richer classes. " Gouty 
adults require meat but once in the twenty - four 
hours." 

In all deo;euerative lesions alcohol has a baneful 
influence. Dr. Cheyne, a Bath physician of the 
eighteenth century, adopted a milk diet in middle 
life (fifty-five), and restricted himself entirely to milk 
and biscuits. After sixteen years' experience of this 
diet, with a large practice, he found three pints of milk 
and six ounces of biscuits a day fully sufficient. 

For dyspeptics with a weak and slow digestion, 
three very moderate meals are sufficient, and after a 
full meal no more food should be eaten for seven or 
eight hours. Five hours at least should intervene even 
between small meals. 

It is good for flatulent dyspeptics to try eating 
only meat and bread at one meal, and only vegetables 
at another. 



360 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. Chambers seems, on the whole, to favour a 
mixed diet, but, in the Last part of the article, gives 
credit to the discovery of the production of force from 
starch, by which energy may be raised to the full 
hei2:ht of usefulness. 

He observes that, according to the experience of 
Mr. Vizetelly, the Spanish labourer in a vineyard con- 
sumes 8 or 9 lb. of bread, onion porridge, and grapes ; 
the Eskimo, using only animal food, can eat 20 lb. of 
it in a day. This estimate seems to be made on the 
authority of Sir John Ross. It refers to a rare feast. 

On a mixed dietary, says Dr. Chambers, only 2 lb. 
of bread and ^ lb. of meat would be sufficient. 

Dr. Playfair, F.R.S., in his lectures to the Royal 
Institution, laid down the following quantities as 
adapted to the lowest condition of sustenance with 
little activity : — 2 J oz. nitrogenous, 1 oz. fat, 12 oz. 
starchy, J oz. mineral matter. Penal diet, on which 
a fair amount of work can be done, has — nitrogenous 
3784 oz., carbo-hydrates 19'864 oz., fat 1*580 oz., 
mineral 0'972 oz. It is just sufficient to maintain 
strength and weight. 

Professor Lawrence, F.R.S., in one of his lectures in 
1823 at the College of Surgeons, said that " in the periods 
of their greatest simplicity, manliness and bravery, the 
Greeks and Romans appear to have lived almost 
entirely on plain vegetable preparations ; indifiPerent 
bread, fruits, and other produce of the earth are the 
chief nourishment of the modern Italians, and of 
the mass of the population in most countries of 
Europe ; of those more immediately known to 
ourselves, the Irish and Scotch may be mentioned, 
who are certainly not rendered weaker than their 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 361 

English fellow-subjects by their freer use of vegetable 
aliment." 

Mr. Gilman Thompson, Professor of Medicine at 
Cornell University, United States, wrote as fol- 
lows : "^ — 

" The northern Eskimo, who has absolutely no 
starchy or saccharine food, . . . resists extreme cold 
and takes very long and fatiguing journeys by sledge, 
yet he is no stronger, nor as strong, as the Central 
African negro, who lives upon a diet of manioc and 
plantains without meat. 

" The Australian savage eats berries, pith, nuts, 
honey, larvae, ants, etc.; the Papuan, sago, fish, fruits ; 
the New Caledonian notv chiefly vegetables. 

" The Mongol eats with his rice small quantities 
of fish, eggs, and goose livers, but for his proteid he 
relies upon bean cheese and sauce from soy beans. 

" The Mexican, whose supply of meat is scanty and 
of a poor cjuality, uses the native bean at almost every 
meal, with vegetables, or perhaps shreds of sun-dried 
beef." 

The ancient Britons were known to have lived 
largely on acorns, berries, roots, leaves, etc. 

In an official Pteport upon insanity in Ireland, tea 
is mentioned as a contributing factor. A very poor 
quality is used, and it is often stewed nearly all day. 
Its use is now general among the poorer popula- 
tion. 

The United States consumes per head U33 lb. of 
tea, 7 '8 lb. of coffee. " By drinking two or three cups 
of black coffee (strong) at every meal, muscular 
tremors are sometimes developed, with nervousness, 
anxiety, dread of impending ill, with palpitation and 



362 STRENGTH AND DIET 

feeling of precordial oppression, l^radycardia, vertigo, 
heartburn, dyspepsia, constipation, and insomnia," 

In children the effect of coffee is insomnia, night 
terrors, nervousness, and tremor. 

In 1899, the United States consumed one-third of 
the total amount of coffee produced, more than Ger- 
many, Austria, Hungary, France, and the United 
Kino-dom. Enoland and her colonies consumed half of 

O O 

the output of tea. 

As regards alcohol. Otto Snell asked sixty expert 
mountain-climbers their opinion of the use of alcohol. 
Fifty-five out of sixty declared that they found it 
harmful before or during their exertions. 

For brain workers, Mr. Thompson advises flesh 
once a day in moderation ; milk, eggs, fish, fresh fruit ; 
light, porous, dry bread, or toast ; a very light midday 
meal, or at any time before the conclusion of work. 

He cites the instance of Cornaro, who lived to the 
age of one hundred and three, and for forty-eight years 
subsisted on 12 oz. of vegjetable food, some eorcrs but 
rarely flesh, and 14 oz. of light wine. 

The fare recommended is as follows for brain- 
workers : — 

Breakfast — fresh fruit, cereal with cream, poached 
egg, boiled fish, bacon, tea or coffee. 

Liinch — roast potato, with butter and cream, or 
beans and bacon, light sandwiches of game 
or relish, cheese, lettuce or salad, baked apple, 
cream. 

Dmner — soup, roast or joint, vegetables, light far- 
inaceous pudding. 
Overeating and violent exercise studiously avoid. 

Dr. Alexander Haig, M.A., M.D. Oxon., F.R.C.P., 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 363 

writes : ^ " Given sufficient albumens, it is a matter of 
very little consequence where they come from, whether 
from the animal or vegetable kingdom. ... It is 
possible, by introducing- more food than can be readily 
digested, to overpower digestion, so that nothing is 
digested and absorbed, and starvation results." 

Exercise brings excess of uric acid into the blood, . . . 
increasing its alkalinity, thus rendering it a better 
solvent of uric acid, so that it will dissolve more of the 
uric acid available in the tissues. In a word, exercise 
acts like a dose of alkali. . . . 

" Hence the records we are now getting from all 
sides show that the less animal flesh a people take the 
better do they come out in trials of force-production, 
and especially in endurance. ... In endurance 
those will do best who get their albumens from 
such animal and vegetable sources as are practically 
free from uric acid, and who do not induke in such 
stimulant poisons as tea, coffee, and other similar 
alkaloid-containing substances. " 

" Now, so far as I know, the vegetarians of this 
coimtry are pretty decidedly superior in endurance to 
those who feed on animal tissues, and who might 
otherwise be expected to equal them ; l)ut these 
' vesfetarians ' would be better still, as I have for some 
years been pointing out, if they not only ruled out 
animal flesh, but also eggs and the pulses (peas, beans, 
and lentils), asparagus, and mushrooms, which contain 
a large amount of uric acid, or substances physiologically 
equal to uric acid, also tea, coffee, and cocoa." 

Dr. Haig then shows that flesh, beef-tea, soups, 
meat-extracts, and other " deadly decoctions of flesh," 
are stimulants, quickly evolve quantities of force, and 



364 STRENGTH AND DIET 

consequently produce a corresponding amount of 
depression. " Stimulation is not force, but force 
rendered a little more quickly available." . .][. 

" Hence it comes about that those who took alcohol 
on a flesh diet generally very soon give it up when they 
give up flesh, and smoke also very little, having no 
craving for any stimulant ; while if what most meat- 
eaters say were true, that meat is very much better 
nourishment," it ought to be exactly the other 
way. 

" Another very common eff'ect of meat eating . . . 
is a certain amount of dulness, heaviness, and dis- 
inclination for bodily or mental exertion in the morning 
hours, often associated with more or less irritability 
and mental depression." 

. . . The uric-acid-free foods fall into the following 
classes : — 

(1) Milk and milk products, as cheese and protene. 

(2) Bread-stuff's, cereal foods, and glutens. 

(3) Nuts and nut foods. 

(4) Garden vegetables, as potatoes. 

(5) Garden fruits, as apples. 

(6) Dried and foreign fruits. 

Milk should be taken at one or two of the three 
daily meals, and distributed among the rest of the 
foods, such as bread, cereals, vegetables and fruits. It 
should not be taken between good meals " to keep up 
streno;th." 

Similarly cheese should be broken up, and not 
eaten at the end of a meal already too heavy ; it should 
be taken early in the meal, well distributed, or grated, 
and masticated. 2 or 3 oz. of cheese a day for persons 
living on a mixed diet is generally suflicient. 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 365 

Plasmon may be used in place of milk, and protene 
in place of cheese. 

As regards bread-stuffs, the most important thing 
is their thorough mastication and mixture with the 
saliva before swallowing, and for this reason they 
should be eaten dry, as toasted Ijread, rusks, or biscuits. 
Porridge and milky puddings are less easily digested, 
so is new bread. Puddings should always be firm and 
solid, for they recjuire plenty of mastication. 

Simple food of not more than two or three kinds at 
one meal is a great secret of health. 

Cereals have been the food of mankind in the 
past, and they are still the food of the great majority. 

" The minority are paying a hideous price for their 
unnatural but stimulating flesh foods, and the chief 
advice I have to offer is to return without delay to the 
corn of their ancestors." 

Complete and thorough cooking of cereal foods is 
important, and useful in dyspepsia. 

Chestnuts when well cooked are easily digested by 
almost everyone. Chestnut flour can be obtained from 
the grocer, and can be mixed with other flour and 
made into scones, etc. Pounded almonds can be 
similarly used, but special care must be taken to use 
nut food appropriately and sparingly. 

"A pound of bread and a pound of the more 
nourishing dried fruits — dates, figs, raisins — would 
supply the albumens for a day's food, and this is, I 
think, the most satisfactory and generally useful form 
of the uric-acid-free diet." 

Garden fruits as eaten contain about 2 per cent, of 
albumen. 

Of the above numbered classes, it is possible to live 



366 STRENGTH AND DIET 

on (1) alone, also on all the rest without (l), relying 
chiefly on (2), (3), and (6). It is not possible to live 
on (4) and (5), and generally in this country not on (6) 
alone. 

Butter and oil can be much more freely taken on 
a meat-free diet. " I look upon good olive oil as 
a valuable substitute for butter." It is specially nice 
with vegetables. [It is good with polenta of maize, 
with potatoes, and with whole rice and wheat.] 

The digestive, hepatic, and other disturbances that 
accompany bilious attacks and sick headaches are due 
to uric acid. 

Excess of cereals often decidedly increases acidity, 
and tends to cause retention of uric acid in the body, 
and acting w4th other causes may even lead to gout 
and rheumatism. 

Thus horses sufter considerably from rheumatism. 

Albumens should be diminished in such cases, and 
a little w^holesome starvation, with plenty of vegetables, 
is likely to prevent the dreaded disease. Most children 
that suffer are poisoned with uric-acid-containing foods 
in addition to being overfed. 

The rheumatism which affects the natives of India 
is partly due to the introduction of uric acid or 
xanthin in the pulse foods so largely used. Many 
pulses contain actually more xanthin than many kinds 
of animal flesh. 

Uric acid is met with in excess in the body and 
blood chiefly from excess of meat, eggs, fish, pulses, 
mushrooms, asparagus, tea, coffee, cocoa, and guarana, 
and from excess of nitrogen ingested. 

" In my own experience, some of the most terrible 
cases of high blood pressure and vascular degeneration 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 367 

have been in dalil-consumino- natives of these Indian 
provinces." 

To the excessive use of flesh and tea, as in 
AustraLasia, might probably be traced a long array of 
deadly diseases and an almost equal number of mental 
and moral defects. 

" In this country I should attribute to the poisons 
of flesh and tea the all-pervading ansemia." Without 
meat and tea " I have fifty per cent, better health." 

" Man has been provided neither with the teeth to 
cut flesh nor with the power to hold its poisonous salts in 
solution and pass them out of his body." " The record 
of his teeth shows that his structure has remained 
unaltered over vast periods of time." Photographs and 
diagrams are given showing the great similarity of the 
teeth of man to those of an orang, and the great 
difterence from those of a leopard [or other carnivor]. 

In relation to traininsr for athletics, Dr. Haio- 
strongly recommends abstinence from flesh, tea, cofl"ee, 
etc. He examined Karl Mann, the winner of the grreat 
German race, who was seven hours in front of the first 
flesh-eater. " His circulation was better than that of 
any meat-eater, which, to a large extent, explains his 
victory." 

Concerning alcohol, tobacco, and other stimulants, 
he holds extreme views : " Practically those who use 
them are weak or diseased, and are entering on the 
road to physiological bankruptcy. 

" The deadly path of stimulation once entered upon 
has only too often led to the complete ruin of mind 
and body." ^ 

According to Dr. Farcjuharson, JM.P., the farm 
labourer in Scotland did a great deal more work on 



368 STRENGTH AND DIET 

oatmeal and milk than the labourer in England who 
ate flesh. " There are a great many diseases, such 
as gout, rheumatism, diseases of kidneys, etc., which 
were produced by eating inordinate quantities of 
meat." ^ 

Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., M.B,, wrote in his 
Human Physiology (1876), p. 89: "Whilst on the 
one hand it may be freely conceded to the advocates 
of vegetarianism that a well-selected vegetable diet is 
capable of producing (in the greater number of indi- 
viduals) the highest pliysical development of which 
they are capable, it may, on the other hand, be 
affirmed with equal certainty that the substitution 
of a moderate proportion of animal flesh is in no way 
injurious, whilst, so far as our evidence at present 
extends, this seems rather to favour the highest meiital 
develo|)ment. 

" That it is water which constitutes the natural 
drink of man, and that no other liquor can supply its 
place, is apparent from the most cursory glance at its 
uses in the system." Dr. Carpenter gives a series of 
exceedingly cogent reasons against the habitual use of 
alcohol. 

Dr. J. Madison Taylor, of New York, writes : "In 
laying the foundations of constitutional vigour by 
giving the chief attention to the disorders of children, 
their proper feeding and hygiene during the first few 
months of life, the foundation of longevity [and of 
strength] is capable of being firmly laid. ... If the 
foundations be well laid, the problem of the super- 
structure can be made a matter of exact procedure." 
Natural methods [human milk] are by far the best. 
" Another fact, . . . very old people nearly all spent 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 369 

the earlier months and years of their lives outside 
large centres of population." " It is a fact abundantly 
well known, and yet not of popular knowledge, that 
constitutional vigour is practically impossible except 
in the first o-eneration of those who live in laroe 
centres without change." Alcohol produces "infinitely 
worse" results upon the second and third generation 
than opium. " The potentiality of cellular cleanliness 
and lymph activity on the mechanism of life is 
paramount." " Temperance in food and drink is an 
essential condition of the best results." ^^ 

Professor Elie Metchnikofi" writes : 

" Hufeland advised that we should use vegetable 
rather than animal food, as animal food is more 
liable to putrefaction, whilst vegetable substances 
contain an acid principle which retards our mortal 
enemy putrefaction. Here the physician of a day 
long past anticipates one of the discoveries of modern 
science." 

" I am justified in asserting that senile decay is 
mainly due to the destruction of the higher elements 
of the organism by macrophags." [The macrophags 
are large phagocytes.] 

" The slow intoxications that weaken the resistance 
of the higher elements of the body and that strengthen 
the phagocytes [harmful] may be arrested by the use 
of kephir, or still better, of soured milk. We should 
eat no raw food. ... The duration of the life of man 
may be considerably increased. 

"Progress would consist in simplifying many sides 
of the lives of civilised people. 

" Conviction that science alone is able to redress 

the disharmonies of the human constitution will lead 
24 



370 STRENGTH AND DIET 

directly to the improvement of education and to the 
solidarity of mankind." ^^ 

Dr. George Keith, M.D., LL.D., wrote a few years 
ago : ^'^ "I believe, from observations on myself and 
others, that Sir B. Richardson is quite right in his con- 
clusion, come to from strictly scientific investigation, 
that alcohol, in every form, lowers the strength of man. 
Alcohol may possibly be of use in the rare occasions 
where a temporary stimulus is all that is wanted." 

Dr. Keith is convinced that in most cases of illness 
very little food should be eaten, and that in almost 
every case disease is aggravated by food when it cannot 
be properly digested, and that the suffering to the 
patient is enormously increased. A simple and short 
case is often converted into a long and severe one by 
giving food wdien it is not wanted. 

" I have long looked on hot water as the most real 
stimulant that we have. 

" The doubtful remedies which are, as a rule, to be 
avoided in states of disease are medicines of all kinds, 
alcoholic stimulants, and food." Rest, warmth, water, 
and fresh air are generally the best means of cure. 

Excess of animal food may be taken for years 
without evident harm, but long before what should 
be the natural span of a healthy life, ugly signs of 
disease unexpectedly manifest themselves, and the 
till now strong and healthy man is told that his case 
is hopeless and beyond the means of possible cure. 
Naturally the overworked kidneys are the first to give 
out, and failure on their part may prove fatal ; or 
the blood gets loaded with animal matters, of which 
they fail to relieve it. A very common evil arising 
in this way is what is called general paralysis ; the 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 371 

number of cases has increased enormously during the 
last thirty years. " I cannot recall a case which was 
not that of a previously healthy individual who lived 
fully. 

" In the great majority of cases of errors of food in 
Cjuantity, the excess is of both kinds, carbonaceous and 
nitrogenous. . . . The ablest men in science, art, 
and literature seem to suffer most." 

Dr. Keith agrees with Dr. Haig in his opinion of 
the pernicious effect of flesh food in increasing uric 
acid and producing anaemia. 

He was told by one of the first financiers in 
Scotland that a whisky-drinking Highlander at sixty, 
living on a very small quantity of oatmeal or potatoes 
and milk, has a better life on which to buy an annuity 
than a " well-fed " Yorkshire teetotaller of the same 
age. 

Sir Henry Thompson wrote to the Times some 
years ago, that he felt constrained to publish his 
conviction that the main cause of the terrible sufferings 
he had to treat was the " glass or two " of wine which 
so many of his patients had been in the habit of taking- 
daily. It was Sir Henry Thompson who used the 
phrase, in reference to overeating, that " the grave is 
dus: with the teeth." 

" In my young days," says Dr. Keith, " in the 
twenties and thirties (1820-1840), the food of the 
working-man, and also of the upper classes, was simple 
and good. It consisted mostly of milk, eggs, oatmeal, 
fish, potatoes, and a few other vegetables. The ' strong ' 
meat of navvies in these days may not be the best 
form of sustenance. A navvy is worn out at forty, and 
a navvy at forty-five is scarcely known. This I had 



372 STRENGTH AND DIET 

from a Dunfermline doctor full forty years ago ; hi& 
work was largely among navvies. 

" I came long ago, in the course of reading, on three 
celebrated men who, when engaged in working out 
some great problem in science or war, took actually no 
food till the strain was over. They were Sir Isaac 
Newton, Napoleon, and the Duke of Wellington. The 
latter was always a careful eater. General Crockett, 
who was with him in the Peninsula, told me that often 
when a long menu was presented to him he would 
run his finger down till he came to the puddingv 
which he would order and dine upon." Edison was 
still more abstinent when engaged in important 
work. 

Dr. William Hall, of Leeds, states '' that of 2700 
children examined at Leeds — at eight years old the 
Jewish child was 3 lb. heavier and 2 in. taller than the 
Gentile, at sixteen years old 6^ lb. heavier and 2^ in. 
taller, at twelve years old 7 lb. heavier and 2^ in. 
taller. 

Fifty per cent, of the Gentile and seven per cent, 
of the Jewish had rickets. 

The Gentile child from a faulty formation of the 
mouth becomes a mouth-breather. 

The Jewish child is superior, comparatively straight 
and firm, owing to difference in food. 

Sixteen hundred ancient skulls show no instance of 
a mouth-breather. The defective palate is "a new 
feature." 

The Jewish mother suckles her child and stays at 
home, her first duty being the care of the children and 
the preparation of food. The parents live well on eggs, 
poultry, fish, olive oil, pancakes, fruit, sugar. They 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 373 

and their children are better able to resist disease 
owing to their excellently chosen diet. 

The British child is given a penny for his dinner, 
and sfets odds and ends of innutritious food — black 

o 

pudding, tinned fish, sausage, poloni, or what not, 
sometimes a cigarette ; while not a few British fathers 
and mothers drink beer and gin, and eat meat, biscuits, 
cheese, etc., at the public-house. Blood, liver, entrails, 
and onions enter largely into the common fare. 

The report of the Royal Commission on Physical 
Training, Scotland, 1903,^'* contained the following 
statements : — 

Amono; a large number of school children examined 
at Edinburgh and Aberdeen the following percentages 
of diseased conditions were found : 

Diseases of refraction in the eyes 

Diseases of the eyes and eyelids 

Diseases of the ears, causing defective hearing 

Catarrh of the eyes 

Disease of the heart .... 

Disease of the lungs .... 

In Edinburgh Board Schools there w^ere about 700 
cases of unrecognised phthisis ; in Aberdeen, 458 : in 
Edinburgh, 1300 cases of unrecognised heart disease 
of a dangerous nature ; in Aberdeen, 250. Of lesser 
ailments, in Edinburgh, 15,000 children with diseased 
throats ; in Aberdeen, 7500. It is estimated that there 
are ailing children, in Edinburgh, 10,500, and in Aber- 
deen, 5700, all needing attention. The total number 
of school children in Edinburgh is about 30,000 ; in 
Aberdeen, 25,000. 

Evidence of Dr. W. Bruce. — In the Western 
Highlands the people have given up porridge and 



A herdeen. 


Edinburgh. 


. 23-9 


31-67 


. 12-2 


15-5 


. 14 


42-04 


. About 5 


About 5 




4-33 




3 



374 STRENGTH AND DIET 

broth, which used to build up the constitutioD, and 
have gone in for tea and slops and such food. Many 
of the children are anaemic. In Lewis, however, the 
children who have been ill-fed grow up into very 
strong, healthy men [and women]. "I do not think 
there is any deterioration in the race." 

Evidence of Dr. Dukes. — iVll soups and beef- teas 
are far more a stimulant than they are a food. Soup is 
not nearly such a good food as porridge and milk, 
bread and milk, or bread and butter and milk. If you 
mix soup with peas, beans, lentils, or rice, that is good. 
A child will starve on ordinary soup made from meat. 
Children are not often underfed in Scotland. 

Dr. Lauder Brunton urges that it is of the very 
greatest importance that it should be thoroughly 
understood that strenofth cannot be maintained on 
beef-tea. On beef-tea alone the invalid would starve. 
Voit proved that dogs fed upon meat-extract quickly 
died.^' 

A physician wrote in 1903 as follows: — "We are 
living on false stimulants, ... we are learning and 
even nationalising bad hygienic habits. ... It all 
ends in nerve-storms and new nervous diseases, and 
fresh outlets of morbid methods on the part of out- 
rao'ed human nature. ... I am writing- as an observing' 
physician, who cannot reconcile England's continued 
greatness with the growing luxury practised by her 
sons." The letter proposes a guild of simplicity for 
plain and clean living and thinking. ^^ 

Dr. J. Batty Tuke, M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S.E., wrote 
some years ago : "The food of the working classes in some 
respects is improved, but also it has become deterior- 
ated by the disuse of a very important item, j)orridge 



I 



I 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 375 

aud milk, for which has become substituted a much 
less nutritious, and in itself somewhat deleterious, 
article of diet — tea and bread. . . . The Scot in days 
gone by fought and worked on meal alone. ... In 
some parts of the country at the present time the 
Scottish ploughman worked, and works, his day's darg 
on porridge and milk for breakfast, for dinner, for 
supper." — (See Lord Elibank's answer to Dr. Johnson.) 
" The physiologist will tell you that porridge and milk 
is a ' typical ' food — i.e. that it contains all the necessary 
constituents of food in the most perfect proportions." 
Bread, continued Dr. Tuke, is made often of inferior 
flour, which carries a great deal of water ; if new, it is 
indigestible ; if too old, tasteless or sour. " But it is 
the constant use of tea which I would most strongly 
deprecate. It is an old saying in Scotland that ' tea is 
bad for the nerves,' and this is certainly true." Tea, 
unless properly prepared and sparingly used, is harmful 
in itself, and, moreover, takes the place of the best of 
nutriments, milk. " It is open to argument whether 
the whisky bottle or the teapot exercises the more 
baneful influence on the public constitution."^' 

Dr. T. S. Clouston, M.D., said : " Certain physical 
conditions are absolutely necessary to the proper 
growth and development of a child. Food should be 
abundant and simple. Milk, bread, butter, vegetables, 
and Scotch broth [mixed barley and other vegetables], 
are the very best of all foods for children, and they 
should be given in abundance. . . . Flesh is neither 
necessary nor good for them in any but small quantity. 
Flesh-eating children are often nervous and thin, both 
of which are contrary to nature's type of child. Fresh 
air in abundance is absolutely necessary. Exercise 



376 STRENGTH AND DIET 

aud play are nature's best aids to proper develop- 
ment." ^'^ 

Dr. Jolin Chiene, F.R.C.S.E., stated that the aver- 
age (1867) of sickness in friendly societies was 2 '45 
weeks a year for all persons between twenty-one and 
seventy. Counting the less prudent men who are not 
members, the average may be put at 2-^ weeks. This 
means a loss, through loss of work and efficiency, of 
£16,633,359, or £1,108,890 for each day of sickness.'^ 

Dr. Robert Bell, M.D., writes : " I will go this far, 
that of all systems, that of the vegetarian is the most 
rational, and I can affirm that, if it were universally 
adopted, there would be greater happiness and longer 
life than at present exists. There are more deaths and 
greater bodily suffering due to overfeeding than all 
the diseases put together. There is not the slightest 
doubt that upon a vegetarian diet the human frame 
can thrive most satisfactorily, and combat disease 
better than on an animal diet." '^^ 

Dr. Josiah Oldfield wrote in 1902 : "I have seen 
children of all ages who have been accustomed to 
eating meat, and who have suddenly come under con- 
ditions where no flesh food was given. I have seen 
young men and middle-aged men, some of whom had 
been abstemious livers, and some of whom had been 
luxurious hon vivants, and who immediately and 
entirely gave up meat altogether, and all with the 
happiest results." Also Dr. Oldfield has had under 
observation men of sixty to seventy who at a single 
stroke had all meats and meat-extracts cut off", and in 
no'case was the result injurious, but, on the contrary, 
in the majority of cases there was improved vigour. 

His experience in villages where Hindoos and 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 377 

Mahometans lived side by side in India was that the 
latter, who are flesh-eaters, were not, in the same con- 
ditions, superior in stamina."^ 

Dr. John Haddon, of Denholm, writes^" : " Very 
early in my career I saw that much illness was caused 
by food, but only recently has the importance of the 
.subject been brought home to me, and at last I began 
to realise . . . that all diet-produced diseases may be 
banished by the study of food and the adoption of a 
rational diet. 

" Still I remained ignorant of the facts that man, 
originally, must have been a frugivorous animal, and 
can live and thrive better if he abstain altoo'ether 

o 

from animal food." Dr. Haddon believes " that diet 
is infinitely more potent in the prevention and cure of 
many diseases than drugs." 

" Parry in his work relates the case of Thomas 
Wood, the miller of Billericay, who lived in vigour for 
upwards of eighteen years on no other nutriment than 
IG oz. of flour made into a pudding ^vith water. This 
represents 112 grains of nitrogen and 2688 grains of 
carbon. Thus we may conclude that 112 grains of 
nitrogen are suflicient to supply the waste of tissues 
in the work of a miller, although it is taught that 300 
grains are necessary for everyone." 

" I have myself lived for weeks without any food 
(even eggs or milk) derived from the animal kingdom, 
and felt my general health and vigour improved, if 
anything, by the change." 

Dr. Haddon then relates three cases — one of anaemia 
and ill-health of three years' standing, perfectly cured 
by substitution of porridge, rice, and milk for animal 
food and wine ; one of a man suffering from Meniere's 



378 STRENGTH AND DIET 

disease, very greatly improved in health by diminution 
of, and almost abstinence from, butcher meat ; and a 
third, of an old lady with weak heart, and incapable of 
any exertion, being restored to moderate activity and 
good sleep by a very light diet, without animal flesh. 

Another lady, who had been an invalid for years 
with persistent constipation, was cured by the follow- 
ino" diet : — 

o 

Breakfast — A raw, ripe apple, whole-meal bread with 
butter, cocoa made with water. 

Dinner — Vegetable soup, a slice of whole-meal 
bread, toasted hard and added to the soup ; 
two potatoes. 

Suppei' — The same as breakfast. 

Dr. Perks gives his personal experience as follows : — 
" I reduced my consumption of flesh to a minimum (an 
average of one pound a week), with the result that the 
periodic headaches, spells of mental depression, and 
slight attacks of muscular rheumatism, from which I 
had suffered for some years, gradually ceased to trouble 
me. Nearly three years ago I adopted an absolutely 
non-carnivorous diet for ethical reasons. The results 
have been more than satisfactory; 'uric acid' symptoms 
no longer trouble me ; I have gradually experienced a 
sense of general well-being, health, and energy which 
recalls my boyhood's days." The sense of fatigue after 
arduous muscular exertion is very much less than 
formerly, and the severe colds from which he suffered in 
winter are very much mitigated and much more 
speedily cleared away. " I am acquainted with at least 
twenty abstainers from flesh food within a radius of 
twelve miles (including two medical men, architects, 
lawyers, etc.) whose experience has been substantially 



MEDICAL TESTBIONY 379 

the same as my own, and whose consciousness of the 
improvement in their physical well-being is such that 
they unanimously declare that they will never return 
to their former diet." ^^ 

Dr. M. L. Holbrook, M.D., Professor of Hygiene to 
the New York Medical College, writes :^* — " Professsor 
Voit, one of the most eminent German physicians, says : 
' I see no reason why man, with well-chosen vegetable 
food, needs to go to the animal kingdom for albuminous 
matter.' " 

In the summer of 1872 the rails of five hundred 
miles of broad sfausje were changed to narrow in two 
weeks. About three thousand men were employed 
from 4 a.m. to 9 p.m. The fare was bread, cheese, 
cocoa, bacon, and 1^ lb. oatmeal daily, as thin gruel 
sprinkled with sugar. The men liked it exceedingly. 
No alcohol was allowed. Not one man was sick. 

The following points are from a pugilist : — Break- 
fast — small piece of fish {710 flesh), well-cooked oatmeal, 
mush and milk, and fruit ; no coffee or tea. Supper 
light. Hot water when desired. Roast meat for the 
second meal. 

" Of my eight children, four that were raised at 
home, while I was with them and could enforce their 
having an oatmeal and milk breakfast and light supper, 
grew up strong, and are alive now." The other four 
died young. 

Gofio, the chief diet of the Azores, is grain roasted 
brown, then ground to fine flour. Maize and wheat 
mixed is best. The inhabitants are exceedingly well 
developed and capable of doing hard work. 

Dr. Hemmeter, M.D., Philos. D., Professor in the 
Medical Department of the University of Baltimore, 



380 STRENGTH AND DIET 

writes to the following effect : ^^ — Physical exercise, 
bathing, or training immediately after meals is not to 
be advised. . . . Reading or writing after meals may 
be harmful for three reasons — because it compels a 
wrong position of the body ; because of possible 
compression of the stomach ; and because of mental 
exertion. 

All emotional excitement after meals is hurtful, and 
it is best not to eat at all if the mind is occupied with 
some distressino; thouo;ht. All gastric sufferers in whom 
neurasthenia is a feature should rest after meals. 

A large number of men of high intellectual capacity 
are gastric sufferers. This comes from the universal 
abuse of the mental energies while overtaxing the 
digestive organs. Dyspeptics ought not to read their 
mail or papers before meals lest their appetite should 
be affected. Many gastric atonies are caused by an 
overwrought nervous system. This one, almost universal 
habit of overtaxing; the brain and nerves is a more 
dangerous and frequent cause, lying unknown and 
unrecognised at the foundation of many incipient 
gastric diseases, than all others put together. 

..." From a great many observations which I 
have made on persons. living at hotels, etc., I have con- 
cluded . . . that the average American in the better 
classes of life eats entirely too much. . . . AVheu 
sickness comes on, the common error is frequently made 
to introduce more food, if possible, than in health. . . . 
The excess of good food and wine in our modern treat- 
ment of disease is as pernicious as the bleeding, 
vomiting, purging, and sweating of our medical 
ancestors," 

Dr. Hemmeter then proceeds to make some very 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 381 

valuable suggestions based on actual trial on himself 
and others. 

He advises for persons who suffer from headaches, 
bilious attacks, dyspepsias, debilities, or from similar 
less severe disturbances of nutrition (and while to some 
degree approving of the no-breakfast plan), that supper 
or the third meal be left off. Dinner, the last meal, is 
at 2 p.m. Resting the stomach will enable it to do 
much better work, and leads to a keen hunger otherwise 
unknown, and in some cases where food was previously 
deficient the actual quantity eaten daily is increased. 
" The two-meal-a-day plan is one of the most effective 
means of combating intestinal flatus, which arises from 
undigested residues." "It is quite conceivable that 
persons may be in a state of starvation, not from want 
of food, but from the fact that the digestive capacity is 
constantly overpowered with excess of food." 

Mr. Evans, M.R.C.S.E., surgeon to St. Saviour's 
Hospital, places fruits and nuts first for their fitness to 
promote health and long life, animal foods are placed 
second, vegetables third, and last, and worst, are 
placed the pulses and grains, which, from their excess 
of earthy salts, are of all foods most likely to induce 
ossification of the joints and tissues, thickening of the 
arteries, and consequent premature old age. 

Moderation in quantity of food is the distinction 
(amid all varieties) of long-lived people. 

Miguel Solis, an extremely old man {reputed to be 
180) in Spanish territory, attributed his long life to his 
careful habits, eating only once a day. He fasted on 
the first and fifteenth day of every month, drinking on 
those days as much water as possible. He chose the 
most nourishing foods, and took all thino;s cold. 



382 STRENGTH AND DIET 

This man ate meat only twice a month. The 
authority for this is Dr. Luis Hernandez. 

Accordino- to Dr. Evans, his abstemiousness and use 
of large quantities of water appear to have dissolved 
those "earthy compounds" which cause premature old 
age in so many cases. ^"^ 

Dr. Had wen, of Gloucester, a vegetarian for twenty- 
three years, said he found the diet the finest thing for 
health under all conditions and temperatures. He had 
worked exceedingly hard with body and brain all that 
time. His children had done very well on the same 
diet, one now being twenty-two. He had " found 
vegetarianism answer well in every case." He had 
persuaded his father and mother to abstain at over 
sixty ; they were now eighty-two and eighty-six. She 
was now upright and strong, with raven-black hair, 
and all her faculties, at eighty-six. He had tried 
vegetarianism on all his patients, and had never found 
it fail. He would banish every kind of alcoholic 
drink.-' 

Dr. J. A. Paris, M.D., F.R.S., wrote in 1837 :'' " It 
would appear, however, that although man is capable 
of subsisting upon almost every variety of food, he 
cannot bear with impunity a sudden and abrupt tran- 
sition from one species to another. This fact was very 
strikingly exemplified in the eastern part of France in 
the year 1817, where the failure of the crops occasioned 
such a famine that the poor were compelled to feed 
upon such vegetable productions as could be obtained ; 
the consequences are stated to have been general 
anasarca, . . . and a permanent loss of strength ; the 
sudden return even to barley bread, after this miserable 
regimen, was not unattended with danger." Similarly, 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 383 

according to Ariceuna, after a famine at Bokhara, many 
of those who had lived on roots and herbs, and retained 
their health, became diseased as soon as they returned 
to a full diet of bread and flesh. [A recent instance 
occurred in South Africa, where about twenty natives 
out of some hundreds who were supplied with a large 
amount of flesh, as an experiment, by mine-owners, died, 
and many others were ill.] After the retreat of Sir 
John Moore's army, many who had survived all hard- 
ships died from the liberal fare on which they were 
regaled when they reached home. 

Spallanzani has shown that a pigeon may be made 
to live on flesh, an eagle on bread, etc. 

Horses have been fed on fish, and on boiled flesh, 
mixed with grain. 

Fresh-water mollusca suddenly transferred to sea- 
water die, but by gradual additions of salt to water 
until it reaches the strength of sea- water they will not 
sustain injury. 

A highly intelligent gentleman in France wrote to 
Dr. Paris that the work done daily by a French labourer 
is about equal to that of an English labourer, but that 
he takes more time. By giving them meat and wine 
they may be got to do more work. [This is probably 
owing to the insufficiency and meagre character of 
the French workman's diet early in the nineteenth 
century.] 

Dry toast and barley water make a good breakfast 
for the prevention of acidity. After the lapse of two 
or three hours, cold mutton or some other easily digest- 
ible meat may be eaten. This answers for luncheon, 
and often the reojimeu indicated has a wonderful effect 
in the improvement of health. A merchant informed 



384 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. Paris that the evil was completely removed by 
adopting this light breakfast and luncheon, and he felt 
ten years younger. His breakfast was barley water 
and milk and a biscuit ; lunch two hours later, a chop 
(and probably bread) ; a good dinner at six. 

" Physicians entertain but one opinion " as to the 
hour at which invalids should dine, — the middle of 
the day. 

It is very important that persons of slow digestion — 
and they are numerous — should not have less than five 
or six hours between meals. 

" A person in robust health," as after training, 
" should diminish the proportion of his food," else he 
will get some disease. It is extremely important after 
illness not to eat too much, but gradually to return to 
a moderate amount of sustenance. 

" Under any circumstances, the quantity of liquid 
taken durinf? a meal should be small." 

" Both theory and experience demonstrate the 
advantage which attends a liquid repast about four or 
five hours after the solid meal." 

The invalid or dyspeptic ought never to eat much 
when tired. 

"The use of chocolate, butter, cream, sugar and 
rich sauces, without a due admixture of bread, potatoes^ 
and other less nutritive aliments, is invariably attended 
with disordered digestion." 

Pulses, sucli as lentils, beans, and peas, should be 
eaten sparingly by persons of weak digestion ; they are 
not very easily digested, and are apt to cause flatulence. 
Peas, when green and young, are a wholesome food. 

Chestnuts form the chief food of the lower orders 
in the plains of Lombardy. 



MEDICAL TESTLMOXV ^So 

It is decidedly expedient for persons of" weak- 
digestion to eat hut one sjyecies of food at a meal. 

" As a common beverage, chocolate is highly ol)jec- 
tionable "; "it oppresses the stomach." 

Dyspeptics, ]\Ir. Abernethy advises, should rest one 
hour after rising, then breakfast, rest three hours, then 
have active exercise for two hours, rest one ; then, taking 
their dinner, they should rest for three hours, exercise 
two, rest one, and then take their third (slight) meal. 

Dr. Paris strongly urges the advantages to be 
derived from digging; it is " highly salutary in dys- 
peptic affections." Regularity of meals is at least as 
important, in Dr. Paris's opinion, as the quality of the 
food. 

Dr. Keith, in his book on Sanitary Matters, 
published in 1900, gave a wholesome warning against 
the ordering of milk "in huge quantities" to middle- 
aged and old men. Though in some respects an 
improvement on excessive tlesli food, milk is not 
wanted by old people, and may cause mischief. 

Herr Lalimann wrote : " Though in this kingdom 
we most of us eat plenty of vegetables, yet those 
vegetables have been deprived of almost all their 
valuable food-salts before they reach us." The salts 
are almost entirely boiled away. 

Our ancestors, says Dr. Lahniann, breakfasted on 
porridge, the most nutritive of cereals ; we substitute 
a miserable roll and coffee. They ate for dinner whole- 
meal Ijread and vegetables ; to-day meat forms the 
principal dish, and potatoes replace other vegetables 
and whole-meal bread. Coffee and tobacco, " the most 
dangerous of nerve poisons," are indulged in after 

dinner. Milk and whole-meal bread formerly provided 
25 



386 STRENGTH AND DIET 

a sufficient supper ; innutritious bread, beer, wine, tea, 
etc., are substituted by us, with ill effect on bodies and 
nerves. These stimulants should properly only be used 
on special occasions. He recommends uncooked or 
steamed vegetables (leaf) ; when the natural salts are 
thus retained the harmful common salts may be dis- 
pensed with, and the flatulence resulting from cabbages 
cooked in the ordinary way may be avoided.-'' 

In answer to questions addressed by the editor of a 
vegetarian paper to medical men, the following were 
some of the replies to the inquiry whether men may 
live in full health and vigour on a carefully selected 
dietary from which flesh food is excluded. It may be 
assumed, however, that many, perhaps a majority 
of, medical men now are in favour of some flesh food 
as they were sixty years ago in favour of alcohol : — 

" Yes."— Dr. H. H. S. Dorman, M.D. 

" Yes."— Dr. H. S. Purdon, Belfast, M.D. 

" Yes, it is possible. . . ." — Dr. Jonathan Hutchin- 
son, M.D., F.R.S. 

" I have lived on a strictly meatless diet for the last 
ten years, and have been greatly benefited by this 
reo-ime. . . . We cure some diseases hitherto considered 
incurable." — Mr. A. F. Reiuhold. 

" I have no doubt of this, and I speak from twenty- 
one years of careful, studious observation of my own 
experience and that of hundreds of sick and well 
persons in all climates, from the tropics to Canada, 
with whom I have conferred." — Robt. J. Osborne, 
M.D, New York. 

"I do."— R. Greer, M.D., Chicago. 

"Yes, unless they do hard work at high pressure; 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 387 

provided that milk, eggs, and butter are allowed." — G. 
Symes Thompson, M.D., London. 

" Certainly."— John Beddoe, M.D. 

" Of com-se I do."— A. Rabagliati, M.D. 

- Yes."— W. W. G. Stables, M.R.C.S. 

Dr. Sims Woodhead, M.D., F.R.S., has not the 
slightest hesitation in saying that men may and do 
live in full health and vigour on a carefully selected 
dietary from which Hesli food is excluded. 

Others are in favour of a reduction of Hesh food, 
and a larsfer use of veo;etables and fruit. 

Dr. George Black, of Edinburgh, has given the 
following opinion : That a fruitarian diet is sufficient 
to maintain the body in its highest degree of health 
and vio-our, and that this is so in all circumstances of 
climate and occupation. It is best for the young, and 
the best possible for early manhood and womanhood. 
" In old ag;e nothino' is more conducive towards ward- 
ing off decrepitude, nothing more calculated to preserve 
physical and mental vigour." 

Mr. C. J. Harris, M.K.C.S., from personal experi- 
ence of six years, gives positive testimony to the value 
of the natural diet, excluding even eggs, milk, and 
cheese. He rode 108 miles on his tricycle in one day 
at the age of seventy-nine, was " strangely well in 
every respect," and free from rheumatism and gout. 

Dr. John Wood wrote that he " has been par- 
ticularly struck \\\t\\ the marked improvement that 
has taken place in those of our domestic servants who 
have adopted our mode of living. In several instances 
where, prior to their making the change, they were 
subjects of dyspepsia, anaemia, and neuralgia, complete 
recovery has followed." He has seen beneficent results 



388 STRENGTH AND DIET 

in patients suffering from rheumatism, gout, skin 
affections of gouty origin, and other allied diseases at 
all ages. Increased strength and ability to bear fatigue 
have been in several instances remarkable. He feels 
strongly the wrong done and the injury inflicted by 
uro-ino- children to eat flesh food. 

Miss Fleetwood-Taylor, M.B., advises entire abstin- 
ence from flesh foods, and strict moderation ; the use 
of nuts, fruits, whole-meal breads and biscuits, suc- 
culent vegetables conservatively cooked, a little cheese, 
and milk. 

Herr Kuttner (Berliner Klinik, Jan. 1902) advises 
a vegetarian diet, including milk, butter, cheese, honey, 
and eggs, for dyspepsia and intestinal affections of 
nervous origin (brilliant results in these), idiopathic 
neuralgias, as well as those having a gouty basis, head- 
aches, and other disorders dependent on constipation in 
neurasthenic, hysterical, and epileptic patients, cases of 
abnormal irritability of the heart arising from emotion, 
etc., insomnia nervosa, urticaria, etc. 

The following lacto-vegetarian diet is recommended : 
— Breakfast — cup of sweet milk or cocoa, bread and 
butter, and for constipation cases, fruit jelly, honey, or 
fresh fruit. Second meal — rice, lentils, etc., milk or 
kafir, bread and butter. Other meals — soup of fruit, 
milk, vegetables ; macedoine of fruit, a bowl of butter- 
milk, egg cakes, pancakes, etc. Butter, cheese, eggs, and 
potatoes may be included in one or more of the meals. 

Dr. Albu ^° recommends a purely vegetable diet in 
functional nervous diseases, neuralgia, neurasthenia, 
gastro-intestinal neurosis, chronic constipation, gout, 
cardiopathies, and many dermatoses with nutritive 
disturbances and dyspepsia. 



MEDICAL TESTl.MOXY 389 

A very useful letter is contributed by a medical 
man to a mag;azine.'^^ In the course of it he states 
that : People who have suffered from gout or 
rheumatism have a tendency to revert to it when 
they eat acid fruit. They may suffer from dyspepsia 
connected with the digestion of starch. Those persons 
who have had gout or rheumatism are always after- 
wards liable to a recurrence on slight provocation, such 
as the use of unsuitable food, like starch and fruit 
together. No meat-eater or tea-drinker of twenty 
or thirty years standing can attain the immunity of 
abstainers from an early age. It is important for these 
sensitive organisations to keep warm, and to abstain 
from the fruit, acid vegetables, etc., which affect them. 
" I have always l)elieved that man's natural diet is one 
of nuts and fruit, which contain practically no starch. 
People who live thus can generally take fruit with 
impunity. . . . The other way is to adopt a diet of 
milk, cheese, jjotatoes," etc. "The acidity of a nut 
and fruit diet is not very great, but the acidity of a 
bread and fruit diet is very great." "The man living 
on a uric-acicl-free diet who eats bread, milk, cheese, 
and adds to these only a very little fruit, at once 
begins to retain uric acid." With such guidance 
" very much relief can be obtained in nearly all cases." 

Dr. Jablonski concluded, as the result of his 
experience, that vegetables ought to be the basis of 
regimen in irritative, plethoric, and above all, gastro- 
intestinal affections.^"' 

Dr. R. E. Dudgeon, M.D., writes :^^ Halophagists, 
as those who induloe to excess in salt are called, are 
subject to various diseases, among which may be 
mentioned catarrhal affections, some skin diseases, 



390 STRENGTH AND DIET 

chilliness, emaciation, and urinary disorders. Pro- 
longed use of salt meat is a source of scurvy. 

Oatmeal has, besides its known excellence as a 
food for brain, teeth, bone, and muscle, a most whole- 
some action on the kidneys. Peas, beans, and lentils 
are a much more sustaining food than wheaten flour. 
Esau's pottage was red lentils. 

Vegetarian diet is quite as nutritious as animal 
food. 

" A. pound of beans is equal to 4 lb of beef," 
according to experts. 

" Dogs, which have purely carnivorous teeth and 
intestines, are often fed by their owners on a strictly 
vegetable diet," and thrive upon it. The dogs of 
St. Bernard Monastery eat no flesh. They are fed 
chiefly on soup of meal, biscuits, and bread. ( Vege- 
tarian, Oct. 1898.) 

Dr. Rae, in his first expedition to the arctic 
regions, took alcohol with him to protect his men 
against the effects of cold. But he found, as he told 
Dr. Dudgeon, that those men who drank alcohol were 
very severely attacked by frost-bites, while those who 
abstained were always fit for the hard work they had 
to do. So in his later expeditions he took no alcohol, 
and his men remained healthy and strong in the 
severest weather. 

Mr. Joseph Wallace recommends abstinence from 
fish, flesh, fowl, alcohol, tobacco, mineral waters, salts, 
baking powders, pickles, unripe and overripe fruits, 
artificial food compounds, black coflee, tea drawn for 
more than three minutes, unboiled milk, unboiled 
water, and drugs. 

He recommends the use of whole-grain meal, fruit, 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 391 

nuts, lentils and other pulses, vegetables, and appropriate 
vegetable oils or l)utters. There is a large body of 
testimony from supporters of the society with which 
he and Mrs. Wallace are connected, of the oreat 
increase of health and vigour, and the freedom from ill- 
ness, of persons who adopt such a diet on the right lines. 
The author of the Catechism of Healtli says : 
" Honey is a never-fiuling disturber of the stomach 
or bowels. To some it is a positive poison. Those 
who in the least degree suffer from disease of the 
digestive organs should never touch it." On the other 
hand, he says, a few persons in health may eat it 
without harm. 

Sir John Pringie, however, and others, especially 
ancient authors, have, highly praised honey for the 
aged. It seems as if the ancient bodily constitution 
was more tough than the modern. 

Dr. Abernethy recommended : for breakfast — bread 
and butter 4 oz., liquid 8 oz. ; for dinner — bread 
and vegetables 2 oz., fish 7 oz., light wine or malt 
liquor 6 oz., water 2 oz. ; for tea — bread and butter 
3 oz., liquid 8 oz. ; for supper, nothing. Total, 16 oz. 
solid, 24 liquid. 

Tea, excessive in strength or quantity, causes (like 
foxglove) watchfulness, palpitation, fainting, nausea, 
etc. Coffee, when strong, impairs the digestion, and 
causes tremors and nervous disorders. 

" Eggs and tea or coffee mix very badly and cause 
indigestion." 

In Dr. Martin's article on " Food " in the Treatise 
on Hygiene, I find the following observations : ^* — 

" Oatmeal is a valuable food, as is evidenced by its 
extensive use among the Scotch peasantry." 



392 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" Uiicleaned or partially cleaned rice is in use 
among the peasantry in India and Burmah. 

" When rice is taken, salt has to be added to supply 
the deficiency of mineral food-stuffs, meat or peas or 
lieans to supply the deficiency of proteid, and animal 
fat (butter, etc.) to supply the fat necessary. The 
cooking of rice is important, it should never be boiled 
but steamed, so that none of the proteid is lost. 

" Rye is a very nutritious food ; in composition, it 
closely resembles wheat." But a larger proportion of 
the proteids of wheaten bread than of rye bread is 
absorbed, and it is therefore to be preferred. [G. 
Meyer, quoted hy Konig.) 

Maize flour is a very nutritious food. It is not, 
however, to be compared to bread of wheat flour for 
digestibility, except to persons accustomed to it. It 
is best taken as a porridge, made either from corn 
flour, oswego, or the ground whole maize. The corn 
flour contains a smaller percentage of proteid. 

The leguminous seeds, such as peas, lentils, and 
beans, are rendered more digestible, in their dry state, 
by grinding and mixing with milk, butter, etc., in the 
cookiuo-. 

The disordered dio-estion arisino- from the abuse 
of tea and coffee has been ascribed to the tannin in the 
infusion. There is, however, no evidence of this. . . . 
It is not clear what constituent of tea and coffee is the 
active agent in producing dyspepsia. On the side of 
the nervous system coffee and tea may lead to sleep- 
lessness and restlessness ; in some people such symptoms 
are noticed even if the beveraoes are not taken in 
excess. Tea ought to be infused " for three minutes 
only." 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 393 

Dr. J. B. Thomson, writing in 1868, spoke in 
favour of a diet into which meat entered very sparingly, 
and which contained instead a moderate amount of 
milk. His experience of this regimen had been for 
ten years. ^^ 

Dr. Guy, from his observations on English prisons, 
stated that " we possess conclusive evidence of the 
sufficiency of a diet from which meat is wholly excluded, 
and even of a diet consisting wholly of vegetable 
matter." ^'*^ 

Dr. H. S. Brewer, in his Alkaloidal Clmica, ob- 
serves : " The veins and arteries in meat-eaters are 
gorged and dilated, and fever is almost always present." 

Dr. Henry Purdon gives this evidence : "I have 
known persons who, after adopting the vegetarian 
practice of diet, recover their health and no longer 
suffer from such complaints as indigestion, constipation, 
gravel, gout, fits, etc. Moreover, I believe that a 
strict vegetarian is less liable to ordinary disease than 
a beef-eater. For example, John Howard, the philan- 
thropist, was a vegetarian, and visited with impunity 
jails and other places where contagious diseases were 
prevalent." ^' 

Dr. W. M. Holbrook, of New York Medical College, 
writes : "In Bright's disease, a plain nutritious vege- 
table diet, including milk, is preferable. In rheumatism, 
a vegetarian diet will, in most cases, give great relief, 
and other hygienic measures will complete the cure, 
where cure is possible." ^*^ 

The American Medical and Surgical Bidletin 
affirms that " there are more than a thousand distinct 
diseases described in our books, but they all spring 
from the violation of only a few of Nature's laws." 



394 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. Robertson Wallace, writing in 1904,^^ says : 
" Good food, the avoidance of stimulants, free venti- 
lation of the bedroom [and of the workroom], exercise 
in the fresh air, thorough flushing of the whole ali- 
mentary system with pure water, and a daily bath or 
dry rubbing, will do far more than any of the latest 
fashionable drugs to keep a girl in health," etc. 

And for a man : "A little soup, a morsel of meat 
and vegetables, or a piece of fish, a sweet, and a 
bit of cheese, is dinner enough." Gout, rheumatism, 
appendicitis, poisoning of the nervous system, eczema, 
kidney and pulmonary troubles, bronchitis, pleurisy, 
and pneumonia are apt to be caused or helped to form 
through excessive loading of the digestive organs. 

Dr. Gordon Stables wrote in 1903:"^ "Virtue 
depends far more on the health of the body than on 
church-going. ... I should like to see every church 
in the kingdom open on every week-day, so that one 
could often drop in when tired and sad, and sitting 
alone, receive that comfoi't that God - aided self- 
communion never fails to bring. . . . The laws of 
Nature tend towards tonicity and happiness. . . . 
Do you know that it would do most people a world 
of good to fast one day in the week, and live ab- 
stemiously all the other days ? Do you know that 
two meals a day are ample for almost any one not 
actively engaged in hard outdoor life and exercise ? " 
On the fasting - day, say Friday, " Stewed prunes, 
grapes, and a little weak tea for breakfast ; fruit alone 
for dinner, with biscuits, and, if needed, a tumbler of 
claret"; or, " a little fish, but no meat on any account." 
On other days, a little stewed prunes or apples before 
breakfast, and a glass of hot water with half a lemon 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 395 

in it, about half an Lour before breakfast. Pure water 
and a little fruit about 1 p.m., then a light meal at 
6 p.m. Elsewhere'*^ he ^Y^ote : "I myself am a brain- 
worker and a hard worker, and I would be neither so 
strong nor so well if I did not use oatmeal." 

Dr. T. L. Nichols, ]\I.D., wrote some years ago :^^ 
Tobacco is an acrid poison, absorbed into the blood, 
and resting upon the brain and nerves, first exciting 
and then dulling their sensibility, and finally [in 
excess] stupefying and paralysing. . . . Tea and coftee 
are stimulants only, and their influence upon the body 
is either inappreciable or hurtful. Strong decoctions 
of either stimulate the brain and nerves, produce 
overaction, and, by concealing fatigue for a time, 
allow^ us to overtask our powers, until we bring on 
dyspepsia, neuralgia, softening of the brain, paralysis, 
apoplexy. 

Spirits have no nutritive value whatever. Enor- 
mous quantities of good food [grapes, grain, etc.] are 
converted into poison, and that which should support 
life is converted into a potent cause of disease and 
death. 

The best human food I believe to be wheat. It 
has long been known by experience that brow^n bread, 
honestly made of whole wheat, and not the refuse of 
millers and bakers, is sweeter and much healthier than 
white bread. Wheat boiled or steamed till quite soft, so 
that it cracks open, and eaten w^ith a little sugar and 
milk, or syrup, is excellent and delicious. Every family 
should have a steel cofiee-mill for grinding wheat ; 
fresh-ground wheat makes a capital dish. 

Indian corn or its meal, in mash, cakes, pudding, 
etc., has great value as food. 



396 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The Scotch and Irish people have lived on oatmeal 
and milk almost entirely. 

Rice is the staple food of hundreds of millions. It 
should be eaten with butter, oil, milk, or fruit. 

Beans, lentils, and peas have a very high food 
value ; a pound of split peas has more nutriment than 
three pounds of beef or mutton. All these are known 
by labourers to sustain the muscular strength to an 
extraordinary degree. The favourite food of American 
timbermen is bean porridge. 

The Spanish peasant dines heartily and satisfac- 
torily on a piece of bread and a raw onion, and is at 
least equal to an English labourer, and generally in 
better condition. 

Cardinal Manning's ordinary meal was a piece of 
bread, biscuits, and water. 

Bread, milk, and fruit form a perfect diet at all 
times, 

" I had a patient, a hopeless dyspeptic, who in 
twenty-one days ate only half a peach, with no other 
food. At the end of three weeks she could eat without 
distress, digested her food, and was cured of her long 
and painful illness." 

There is no cure like the " hung-er cure," 

Health is the condition of industry, of usefulness, 
of all comfort and enjoyment, and health depends upon 
pure air, cleanliness in every respect, healthy food and 
pure water, and temperance. 

Dr. Nichols made an experiment of economical 
living for four weeks in November 1878, his food being 
in the first week, chiefly brown bread, oatmeal, milk, 
jDca-soup, pudding, grapes, j)otatoes, onions, roast corn, 
figs, omelet, varied every day ; the cost was otd. per 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 397 

day. In the second week, bread, milk, and fruit, and 
a little cheese — cost, 5jd. a day. In the third week, 
porridge, brown bread, milk, potato, apple, Brussels 
sprouts, rice, polenta, cheese, fruit — cost, 3d. a day. 
(A dinner in this week of baked potato, bread, butter, 
cheese, and fruit pudding cost Ifd.) In the fourth 
week, bread and fruit pudding, maize, sugar, wheat 
porridge, apples, peas, oatmeal, bean sou^d, fruit — cost, 
a little over 2d. a day. 

The result as to weight was — no loss till after the 
third week, when an extra diminution of food caused a 
loss of 2 lb. in weight, from 12 st. 2 lb. to 12 st. As 
to health, a decided improvement. 

A family might live very well as follows : — On a 
soup, eaten two or three times a day, composed of — 
barley 8 oz., peas 6 oz., potatoes 24 oz., bread 8 oz., 
sweet herbs, salt 1 oz., water 80 oz. or 4 Cjuarts, at a 
cost of 5|^d. 

The barley and peas need boiling until well cooked, 
over a slow fire, the potatoes, herbs, bread, etc., and a 
little butter and brown sugar if required, may tlien be 
added. And, of course, any appropriate vegetables, 
according to the season. 

Dr. Ilaig in his book, Uric Acid in Causation of 
Disease, mentions that Sir W. Banks attributes the 
increased cancer death-rate largely to " richer and more 
abundant food," of which males eat more than females.^^ 

" We now not only eat more meat, but are in a far 
worse condition for eliminating uric acid."^^ 

A recent report by the medical officer of the Scottish 
Widows' Fund shows a very decided increase in deaths 
from such diseases of uric-acid orioiu, as Brioht's disease 
and cerebral haemorrhage, which, with bronchitis and 



398 STRENGTH AND DIET 

heart failure, constitute four-fifths of the diseases treated 
of in this volume. The increased death-rate from these 
diseases runs parallel with the increase of that from 
cancer, and with the increased consumption of fiesh. 

In London and the Thames valley, where the cancer 
rate is high, the consumption of fiesh and rich foods is 
also high. 

In Kerry a potato, buttermilk, and Indian meal 
diet has prevailed ; the cancer death-rate was only 2 "76 
per 1000, while that of Armagh, with a mixed and 
animal diet, was over 10. 

But bacon and tea are now largely used in Kerry, 
and apparently are responsible for some of the increase 
of cancer mortality in recent years. 

In India, pulses (uric acid forming) may cause a 
certain proportion of cancer cases. [May not the 
highly seasoned curried dishes be also a cause ? They 
are too strong to be tolerable to most Europeans.] 

Salt, like metals, lead, and silver, hinders the 
elimination of uric acid. Uric acid is a local irritant. 

Mr. Moore of the Middlesex Hospital says cancer 
is " eminently a disease of persons whose previous life 
has been healthy, and nutritive vigour gives them other- 
wise a prospect of long life." It is the vigorous who 
tend to retain uric acid. 

Flesh and tea are a cause of the retention of uric 
acid. Com.mercial travellers, butchers, and plumbers 
are subject to cancer, owing to diet and to absorption 
of lead. 

Gout is known in Persia, where only the rich eat 
fiesh, as the rich man's disease.'*^ Anaemia, migraine, 
and acute rheumatism are also produced by an excess 
of flesh diet. 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 399 

Uric acid is met with in excess in the body and 
blood chietiy from three causes — (l) Excess of [flesh] 
meat, eggs, fish, pulses, mushrooms, asparagus, tea, 
coffee, cocoa, and guarana, which contain it or members 
of the xanthin group equivalent to it ; or (2) because 
so much nitrooen is taken that the uric acid formed out 

o 

of it in the relation to urea of about 1 to 35 is not all 
excreted, and a store is formed in the body of possibly 
52-400 grains in a year ; (3) because animal food 
increases the introduction and formation of uric acid 
and prevents its elimination ; similarly the action of 
tea, coffee, pulses, etc. No animal food at all is necessary. 

A proportion of 3*5 grains of urea per lb. of body 
weight, as stated in most works of johysiology, is a fair 
amount for a healthy and active man. 

Children perhaps require three times as much, old 
and sedentary people much less. 

The albumen required is estimated by multiplying 
own weight in pounds by 3 "5 and the product by 3 ; 
the fio-ure obtained is the w^eioht in o-raius of albumen 
needed. 

Oatmeal contains 3 "4 grs. of puriu per lb., cereals 2 
to 4 grs. of xanthin, pulses 16 grs., tea 175 grs. 

With the increased use of tea and coffee, there is a 
very great increase of uric-acid disease throughout the 
land. 

Dr. Haig concludes that flesh-food is unnatural, and 
that tea [and coflee] is a poisonous stimulant. That 
salt is bad for uric-acid trouble, aiid causes the body to 
feel cold much more, also causes nasal catarrh. That 
bread-stuffs and cereals form the best diet. That 
seconds flour is the best. That bread, fruit, and 
vegetables, with a little cheese or butter, are non- 



400 STRENGTH AND DIET 

constipating. That oil and butter are very useful. 
That toast, roasted biscuits, potatoes and oil, and dry 
fruit make a good meal. That the athletes of Greece 
and Rome subsisted on some such diet. That bread 
and toast should be eaten dry, and well chewed, to 
avoid flatulence. That no one should drink when not 
thirsty. 

Dr. Burney Yeo recommends China teas as much 
more wholesome than Indian and Ceylon, which contain 
a much larger amount of tannin. 

" For constipation brown or rye bread, fresh vege- 
tables, spinach, sorrel, beetroot, watercress, salads, 
plainly boiled Spanish onions, ripe fruits, should form 
a regular part of the diet. . . . The amount of 
animal food should be limited, and the proportion of 
vegetable food increased," "An excess of eggs, milk, 
and farinaceous food must be avoided." "Maize and 
oatmeal are slightly aperient." "A due proportion of 
fats and oils is also beneficial." A dessertspoonful of 
olive oil may be mixed with potato, beetroot, or other 
vegetable."^'' 

Many local epidemics have been caused by the 
diseased or infected flesh of animals. An interesting 
example is described by Sir J. Crichton Browne,*" 
which occurred at Derby, and " was investigated and 
cleared up in a masterly manner by Dr. Howarth and 
Professor Delepine." A great number of similar attacks 
are probably due to similar causes. The outbreak at 
Derby was found to aff"ect persons who had eaten pork 
pies from a certain shop on 3rd September. On 
19th September Dr. Howarth had particulars of 
131 cases in Derby, and 90 cases outside, two of which 
proved fatal. Cases occurred in London, Uttoxeter, 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 401 

Cheltenham, Taunton, Devonport, Sheffield, and Leeds, 
all from pork pies purchased in Derby. The shop, 
with its slaughter yard, was above the average in its 
arrangements, but there were many sources of danger, 
and it was ultimately shown that the chopped materials 
for the pies were liable to infection in the yard, where 
the intestines of pigs for "chitterlings" were scrubbed. 
The bacillus from the intestine of an infected pig 
would, on falling into the pie material, multiply with 
enormous rapidity, and experiment showed that the 
baking for an hour of the pies did not heat their 
interior sufficiently to kill the micro-organisms. The 
diseased intestine of the pig, thus infected with great 
severity the consumers of the pig pies. 

In the fatal epidemic of pneumonia at Middles- 
borough in 1888, samples of bacon bought in the 
district gave pneumonia to a large proportion of mice 
fed on them ; "it seemed clear that this fell disease 
could be spread by means of infected food." 

The condition of many bakehouses, especially of 
those which are underground, is quite scandalous, and 
must be productive of much disease. Dr. Newman, of 
Finsbury, found by careful researches that the pro- 
portion of CO^ was 14 "8 in the bakehouses, and that 
their air contained at least four times more bacteria 
than the air of the street. Fifty-four per cent, of the 
deaths of bakers were due to lung disease. The spread 
of tuberculosis from consumptive bakers, who handle 
the loaves, ought to be guarded against. It is a very 
considerable danger to the public. Many bakehouses, 
we may add, are liable to typhoid pollution from the 
defective closets opening into them. 

In bakers' and grocers' shops I have found in every 
26 



402 STRENGTH AND DIET 

part of the country the practice of wetting the finger 
in the mouth before putting rolls or biscuits in a bag, 
and frequently the finger is wetted before the goods 
are taken up. The attendants seem to be wholly and 
fatally ignorant of hygiene. 

Rheumatism, cancer, gout, consumption, diabetes, 
and epilepsy are considered by many observers to be 
much favoured by excessive flesh-eating, and some of 
these are cured by abstinence. 

Dr. Lambe, Dr. Pavy, and Dr. Haig have borne 
valuable testimony to the effect of a vegetable and 
fruit diet in curing rheumatism and gout.^^ 

Dr. Pavy mentions that Mr. Thomas Wood, reported 
upon to the College of Physicians by Sir George Baker, 
sustained "a remarkable deo^ree of vigour" for more 
than eighteen years upon 16 oz. of flour made into a 
pudding with water, no other liquid being taken. 

Dr. Haig affirms ^'^ that the first requisite for 
strength and power of endurance is a satisfactory and 
sufficient supply of albumens ; the second is a free 
circulation through the tissues to bring them albumens 
and remove their waste products, and this circulation 
is only possible in the comparative absence of uric acid 
from the blood stream. Dr. Haig excludes flesh and 
eggs from a healthful dietary, and recommends the 
following foods as free from uric acid : — (1) Milk and 
milk products ; (2) the pulses ; (3) bread-stuff's ; (4) 
nuts and nut foods ; (o) garden vegetables ; (6) 
garden fruits ; (7) dried and foreign foods. 

He places dairy products in the first rank, and has 
a high opinion of the cereals. Garden vegetables, such 
as potatoes, are deficient in albumen, but are useful 
with the more albuminous foods, such as milk, cheese. 



MEDICAL TESTIINIONY 403 

and pulses. Nuts are valuable, but have disadvantages. 
Pulses should be sparingly used, 2 oz. daily being 
sufficient for most people. Garden fruits are useful in 
addition to albuminous foods. Dried fruits have a 
higher albumen value. He concludes that it is possible 
to live on (l) alone; also on all the rest, excluding (1) 
and animal products entirely, and relying chiefly on 
(2), (3), and (4) ; that it is not possible to live on (5) 
and (6) alone, and generally in this country not on (7) 
alone. "A diet which includes all or nearly all of 
these groups in its day's cycle is the best." 

The United States Department of Agriculture has 
been carrying on an investigation as to the value of 
foods, and their results show that fruits and nuts 
should be considered as true foods, rather than as food 
accessories.^" 

The subjects for experiment were two elderly men, 
two university students, two women, and three children. 
The men all did hard manual labour during a part of 
the time, the students working to su23port themselves 
during their studies. The fare included apples, 
tomatoes, honey, bananas, centaloupe, grapes, verdal, 
Tokay, muscat, haws, pears, pomegranates, persimmons, 
oranges, strawberries, melons, figs, almonds, and pea- 
nut butter. Small quantities of cottage cheese and 
eggs were allowed. 

In the annual report of the Department of Health of 
Chicago for 1894, I find that the following diseases had 
diminished since 1861 : — Consumption, croup, diarrhoea, 
diphtheria, dysentery, malarial fever, measles, puerperal 
fever, scarlet fever, typhoid, whooping-cough. Most 
of these diminished as a result of sanitary administra- 
tion and improvements. It is observed that the 



404 STRENGTH AND DIET 

sterilised milk charity did much to save child life. 
That the new water-supply from the four-mile tunnel 
in the lake reduced the mortality largely ; in three 
years the typhoid mortality fell from 11 '5 per 10,000 to 
3'1 in 1894, — the diarrhoea from 1951 (annual average) 
to 604. The typhoid rate, which had been the highest 
of all American cities, now took the tenth place out of 
seventeen ; 65,000 cases of non-fatal illness were 
considered to be saved, and lives of an estimated value 
of $10,765,000. 

The following diseases increased since 1861 : — 
Nervous 80 per cent., Bright's 84, cholera infantum 
123, pneumonia 160, bronchitis 330, heart 360, 
cancer 812. — Accused: The High Tension of Modern 

Life. 

In a very recent official report (1904) on insanity 
in Chicago, the greatest beast-killing and pork-packing 
city in the world. Dr. Podstata, the superintendent of 
the insane asylum there, states ""^ that Chicago contains 
one insane person for every one hundred and fifty of 
the population, that the percentage has quadrupled in 
the last fifty years, and is increasing at the fastest rate 
in the world. In five hundred years, if present con- 
ditions are maintained, half the Caucasian race would 
be mentally wrong, and in two hundred years our 
present civilisation would be obliterated. 

In the new edition of Quain's Dictionary of Medi- 
cine, Dr. Frederick Koberts, the author of the article 
on " Gout," states that this disease may be originated 
de novo, or an inherited tendency may be considerably 
aggravated, by certain errors of diet and habit. " In 
general terms, these errors may be summed \\^ as 
excessive eating, especially of particular articles of 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 405 

food ; undue indulgence in alcoholic drinks ; and 
indolent habits, with insufficient exercise. The gouty 
diathesis is chiefly promoted by foods which are rich 
in nitrogenous elements, and esjoecially lean meat." 
Undue consumption of sugar, starchy foods, and several 
kinds of wine and strong malt liquors, contributes to 
produce gout. 

These views are generally held by the best medical 
authorities. 

Dr. Cheyne mentions that the Prince of Conde was 
cured of gout by a vegetable diet. It is wonderful, he 
says, in what sprightliness, strength, activity, and free- 
dom of spirit a low — i.e. a vegetable — diet will preserve 
those who have habituated themselves to it. He gives 
instances. In several races the same sprightliness is 
often found. For instance, the Bannians with their 
abstemious habits, according to Ovington, in his Voyage 
to Sural, are remarkably quick-witted. The Dalecar- 
lians of Sweden, in 1789, lived extremely well and 
happily, according to Dr. Sparrmann and a Dutch 
officer, on bread, milk, and water, and occasional herbs, 
or pancakes and frumenty (hasty pudding) and beer. 
They were " good-natured and honest beyond example, 
and very robust and healthy." 

The British Medical Journal, quoting Lord Rose- 
bery's dictum, " An empire is but little use without 
an imperial race," reviews Mrs. Watt Smyth's recent 
book on Physical Deterioration : — 

" It is seen, therefore," says Mrs. Smyth, " from 
the evidence of vital statistics, that town conditions 
are, as compared with country, inimical to the survival 
of infants and young children. . . . This terrible toll 
on infant life means also a corresponding toll on the 



406 STRENGTH AND DIET 

health of those infants who live on into childhood." 
The diseases passed through " produce a lasting eftect 
on nutrition, impairing digestion, deforming the skele- 
ton, and stunting growth generally." 

" For our part," says the British Medical Journal, 
" we are prepared to uphold the conclusion here im- 
plied. "^- 

An East End clergyman remarked that the poor 
*' are perpetually on the trudge to the hospitals with 
their bad chests and legs, and get patched up again 
and live on." 

The London hospitals, according to Mr. Burdett, 
spent £600,000 and attended to about 1,000,000 out- 
patients annually. " This expenditure is incurred 
mainly in patching up the wretched poor." The rate 
must now be much higher. 

Dr. Arthur Newsholme, M.D., D.P.H., M.O.H., of 
Brighton, states ''^ that the age distribution of urban 
is more favourable to a low death-rate than that of 
rural districts. If the annual death-rate in England 

o 

and Wales at each age period be applied for 1881, the 
death-rate in the urban population would be 20'4, in 
the rural 22 "8 3. That is, taking age distribution into 
account, if the two populations were equally healthy, 
the death-rate of the towm should be 4*03 below, that 
of the country 7*33 above that of England and Wales 
as a whole. Yet the town rate is much the highest. 

o 

Speaking of cancer, he called attention to the fol- 
lowing facts : — Persistent local irritation has very 
commonly preceded the disease. A jagged tooth, a 
clay pipe, the irritation of soot coal-tar, paraffin, 
tobacco smoke, are instances. 

According to Dr. Ogle, the liability of chimney 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 



407 



sweeps is about eight times that of males in general . 
In the United States, sweep's cancer is almost unknown, 
and open fires of common coal are little used. In 
Belgium, where coal like the English is used, there is 
almost complete immunity, but great care is taken to 
prevent contact of the body with the soot ; in Germany, 
where there is also comparative immunity, the practice 
is to wash the body daily from head to foot. 

The death - rate of males of ages twenty - five to 

sixty-five was as follows, according to occupation : — 

All males, 1000 (average). 

Miners, South Wales and Monmouthshire . 1081 

North Riding, etc. . . . 834 

,, Durham and Northumberland . 873 
Staffordshire . . . .929 

West Riding .... 772 

Fishermen . . . . . .797 

Stone and slate quarries . . . .1122 

Cab and omnibus service . . . 1482 

Plumbers, glaziers, painters . . . 1169 

Brewers 1361 

Innkeepers . . . . . .1521 

Costermongers, hawkers . . . .1879 

Butchers 1170 

Farmers . . . . . .631 

Wool operatives . . . . .1032 

The health of miners is remarkable, especially when 
we find that about a quarter of the mortality was due 
to accidents. Allowing for this, they appear to be 
exceedingly high in the scale of health. 

Comparing clergymen and ministers with publicans, 
innkeepers, and wine and spirit merchants, it appears 
that the death-rate from age twenty to tw^enty-five is 



408 STRENGTH AND DIET 

four and a half times as great among the latter as 
among the former ; at twenty-five to forty-five, about 
four times as great ; and at forty-five to sixty-five, more 
than twice as great. 

Dr. Newsholme thinks that statistics give no 
adequate idea of the ravages of alcoholism and of 
syphilis, and believes these two causes to be more 
fatal than all the specific infectious diseases put 
too-ether. 

Diseases of the nervous system, alcoholism, suicide, 
gout, liver diseases, etc., are high above the average 
among innkeepers, brewers, butchers, and commercial 
travellers. As regards liver, the deaths of innkeepers 
are 240 against 39 in the general population. 

Butchers " must be classed amono; those who sufier 
severely from alcoholic excess, the effects of which are 
undoubtedly enhanced by excess of animal food." 

Dr. Dick w^rote : The diet of the Afo;han consists 
of bread, curdled milk, and water. [I think that now, 
at least, they frequently eat flesh.] He lives in ^ 
climate which often produces in one day extreme heat 
and cold ; he will undero-o as much fatio-ue and exert 
as much strength as the porters of London who are 
fed on flesh and ale ; neither is he subject to their 
acute and obstinate disorders. ^^ 

In the Clinical JonrnoJ, Mr. Fletcher Beach says : 
" The disease, general paralysis, does not occur in 
weakly persons as a rule, but in those that are strong 
and more likely to give way to excess. ^^ 

In a discourse on Food and Morcds, published by 
the Royal Sanitary Institute, Mrs. Hodgkinson has 
related very distinctly the view held by many members 
of the medical profession : "^ 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 409 

" The nervous system, overwrouglit by unnatural 
stimulation or weakened by malnutrition, has terrible 
methods of avenging the wrongs upon itself and 
society. . . . There is no doubt that the outward 
manifestation of such impulses [moral aberrations] is 
conditioned by the body, and that degeneration, 
physical and moral, must be the inevitable result of 
failure to obey the laws of sound and simple nourish- 
ment, . . . 

"It is therefore absolutely necessary that women 
should be instructed in the properties of the various 
foods and drinks in common use ; in their action upon 
the nervous centres," . . . etc. " And the best hope 
of the race is that law and order should take the place 
of the chaos of io-norant indifference in which we have 
hitherto been content to leave a matter which concerns 
every one of us momentarily from the cradle to the 
grave." 

In the course of a discussion at the Sanitary 
Congress at Manchester, Mr. South stated that much 
of the high mortality of young children was due to 
insufficient nourishment and the drunkenness of 
parents. Dr. Niven's statistics bear out this conten- 
tion, for the chief causes of death were found to be 
diarrhoea, marasmus, lung disease, and unclassified 
diseases. 

A very remarkable document has quite lately been 
circulated, of the highest interest and promise, 
advocating the teaching of hygiene, dietetics, and 
temperance in the common schools of the country. 
The memorial with this object was signed by over 
14,000 medical men of the United Kingdom. 
A very excellent syllabus of subjects for children 



410 STRENGTH AND DIET 

from six to fourteen is appended to the recom- 
mendation. 

In a letter to the Times of 22nd November 1904, 
Professor J. Chfford Allbutt directs attention to the 
paramount importance of considering the question of 
diet in all schemes of physical education. Professor 
Allbutt states that Professor Atwater and Professor 
Chittenden (well-known and very high authorities) 
have recently found, from an ela])orate series of 
experiments, that excess of food absorbs a very large 
amount of physical energy, and that in this useless 
effort nitrogenous foods are chiefly concerned. Exces- 
sive starches (bread, etc.) are burned off in the lungs 
almost directly and at far less cost. The ordinary man 
eats too much. By a closer adjustment of food to 
work, the sum of work of which a man is capable is 
prodigiously increased.^" 

In the course of the Manchester Health Lectures 
it is contended that digestion is ruined by many 
different habits or errors. Bolting meals, badly cooked 
meals, copious draughts of water, spirits, beer, or tea, 
using up or drugging the saliva by smoking, insufficient 
chewing, depressing emotions, want of good air and 
exercise, are all against healthy digestion. Drunkards 
are always dyspeptic. Over-feeding and over-drinking 
are the most damaging in effect, more or less crippling 
large numbers of people. Young men and women 
employed in shops or factories, and workmen, are 
largely subject to indigestion, and the multitude of ills 
following upon it, owing to bad— that is, foolishly mis- 
taken — feeding, hurried meals, inactive habits, or nervous 
strains, or the too frequent use of drinks, etc., which are 
properly drugs, such as tea, coffee, and tobacco.^® 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 411 

The Daily Tdegraph. of November 19, 1903, 
published an interview with a distinguished physician 
on Major Patrick Craigie's address to the Statistical 
Society two days previously. The wealthy classes 
unquestionably eat too much meat. Labouring people 
do not get a suthcient quantity of fresh meat. Of the 
out-patients at hospitals in East London, probably one- 
half were cases of ana3mia, dyspepsia, and general 
debility, requiring easier conditions of life and plenty 
of fresh air. " Possibly the most marked condition 
that arises from dietary over-indulgence is that known 
as gout." " A large proportion of the community eat 
far more meat than is good for them." " It is the 
meat-eating classes that snfter from gout in its thou- 
sand forms." Among the poor, on the other hand, 
and especially women, who live chiefly on bread and 
butter and tea, the vast number of cases of anaemia 
and dyspepsia occur. As to cancer and food, he 
thought no connection had been made out. " Over 
tea-drinking is the cause of numerous evils," many 
forms of indigestion, also nerve derangements. Several 
cups of tea, or other liquid, with meals are very in- 
jurious. Stop their tea-drinking, and they speedily 
get better. Cigarette - smoking causes rapid and 
irregular action of the heart, digestive disturbances, 
breathlessness, restlessness, headache, general tired- 
ness. 

Dr. A. Berlyn, L.D.S. Glas., of Capetown, has 
written on the question of food and decay of teeth : '"^ 
" The natives who live on soft, pappy foods are far 
more immune from dental caries, not only than the 
people who never touch this sort of food, but even 
than those of their own race who live partly on flesh 



412 STRENGTH AND DIET 

diet and partly on soft food. . . . Take the raw native 
who comes in from the kraal, who is little more than 
a savage, and who has never subsisted on anything 
but soft mealie pap. When he first comes into a 
civilised town from his wild state of existence, in 
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred he will be found 
to possess a perfect set of thirty-two sound, beautifully 
formed, milky-white teeth, free from any taint of 
tartar or other discoloration, and seldom if ever mal- 
formed or irregular. But examine the same set of 
teeth, say a year or two after the native has lived in 
a civilised town, partaken of flesh food (while deserting 
his beloved pap) — food that has been prepared by 
civilised people, spiced and condimented, and you will 
find caries and other dental troubles similar to those 
found in any white man reared and fed as the latter 
usually are. . . . Take at random 10,000 raw natives, 
and you will not find ten of them who do not possess 
perfectly formed horseshoe-shaped jaws ; there are no 
V-palates, no overcrowding of teeth, seldom an 
irregularity, while the enamel is of a perfectly white 
colour, hard in texture, free from nodulations and pits, 
and forming a perfect shield to the more vulnerable 
structures of which the teeth are formed. The native 
cleans the teeth by washing the mouth and rubbing 
with his finger." 

In the same magazine I find a report on the 
Neolithic skulls of Harlyn Bay, Cornwall, by Mr. J. 
Thornton Carter. 

In Skull I. the teeth were fine, large, and regular ; 
free from caries and tartar. 

In Skull II. very fine and free from caries ; palate 
remarkably well formed. 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 413 

Among the loose teeth, of which Mr. Mallett has 
found great numbers, caries was fairly frequent. 

An account appeared in the Times of October 24, 
1898, of rickety and otherwise ailing schoolboys at a 
large public school. It was written by the doctor there. 
Of 100 boys between thirteen and fifteen, 39 were 
below average height, 53 below average weight, 68 
below the average chest measurement, 63 were the 
subject of deformities [probably of all kinds of mal- 
formation, large or slight], 2 were ruptured, 14 had 
varicocele, and 22 albuminuria. A very large pro- 
portion have bad teeth or bad digestion. "^"^ The 
Vegetarian observes ^^ that the great flesh - eating 
nations are those whose teeth are worst, and who, to 
a very great extent, have to wear artificial substitutes ; 
the vegetarian nations, on the contrary, even where 
the tooth-brush is not used, have sound and excellent 
teeth up to old age. It is suggested that wdiole-meal 
bread or Hovis, oatmeal porridge, milk, lentil soup, 
and cocoa, in the place of white bread and tea, would 
build up the health of the young, and prevent such 
wretched results as those of which our public schools 
for rich and poor give such lamentable examples. 

Elsewhere I find that " a place of interment was 
lately opened at Scone, near Perth, which had remained 
untouched for above two hundred years ; and yet, to 
the astonishment of every one, among a great number 
of skeletons there were hardly any of them in which 
the teeth were not entire and sound." Similar obser- 
vations were made on the skeletons discovered near 
Old Malton Abbey, and in many other places. The 
unsound, decayed teeth of to-day are clearly a very 
modern innovation on Nature's former rule. 



414 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Many scattered accounts of savage and primitive 
tribes, and some of races a little advanced in civil- 
isation, report a condition of dental health which is 
near perfection. Most of the best teeth are found in 
simply living vegetarian tribes, but some carnivorous 
savages seem to be equally well provided. Even in 
Wales and Scotland within recent times there were 
many examples of perfect sets of teeth in old age. A 
Welsh grardener told me that his father had all his 
teeth sound at eighty. There can be no doubt that 
rich fare, hot drinks, excessive indulgence in " sweets," 
and the multiplied infectious diseases, have a dis- 
integrating effect on the teeth. The rich, who eat 
much animal food, have, till lately, been the chief 
sufferers from bad teeth. 

And the United States and British Colonies, where 
Hesh is by far more largely consumed than elsewhere, 
are by far the most affected by dental troubles. False 
teeth are the rule in some parts of the States ; there 
" every door is barred with gold." 

Dr. George S. Keith, the author of the Plea for a 
Simpler Life, has given some useful information, in a 
later book, on the value of rice-meal, which is a part of 
the covering of the rice grains after the removal of the 
husk. Ordinary rice sent to England for human food 
is deprived of this rice-meal, but the rice-meal is 
imported for pigs or cattle. Used in the proportion of 
one part of rice-meal to four of white flour, it makes 
excellent brown bread. An analysis of partly cleaned 
rice which had lost some of the inner covering showed 
that the rice-meal contained 12*47 per cent, of 
albuminoids and 4 "5 of phosphoric acid. " The meal is 
thus very rich in albuminoids and phosphates." [This 



JMEDICxVL TESTIMONY 415 

would go a long way in supporting the strength and 
intelligence of some of the whole rice-eating Eastern 
races.] Rough rice from Assam only contained 9*89 
of albuminoids and 0*96 of phosphoric acid ; picked red 
grain, 7 '09 and 0*465. The rice-meal contains only 
38'2 per cent, of starch, compared with the 52"85 and 
527 of the rough rice and picked grain. " Parkes, an 
excellent authority, gives 5 per cent, as the proportion 
of albuminoids in the common white rice used in this 
country." 

The value of this rice is still further reduced by 
cooking, and by throwing away the excess of water in 
which it has been boiled. In India the water used is 
just enough to swell the rice. 

Clearly Dr. Keith agrees with those who condemn 
the "polishing" of rice for the English market. The 
polishing merely gives what is supposed to be "a pleasant 
appearance." 

Unhappily, the natives of India, to the number of 
many millions, are now using "this thriftless system." 

Dr. Keith alludes to the letter in the Times of 
28th October 1898, from the physician at a large public 
school, giving particulars of sixty-three " deformities " 
found in one hundred boys examined. 

In the correspondence which followed, one doctor 
regretted that the simple but perfect foods formerly 
used in the nursery and schoolroom, such as milk, 
oatmeal, and other cereals, are now little valued. 

Dr. Keith wrote a letter to the Spectator in Nov- 
ember 1898, in which he ascribed the bad state of 
matters to overworking the stomach by giving too 
much and too rich and exciting food, and expressed his 
apprehension that England would have to look else- 



416 STRENGTH AND DIET 

where for her leaders than to the great public schools. 
This letter was not printed. 

" I have long known," says Dr. Keith, " that there 
is a very marked and progressive deterioration of our 
youths, and especially of the wealthy classes, and I 
have pointed out to parents that this is caused mainly 
by the unscientific system of feeding " introduced about 
sixty years ago. " If I may judge from what was told 
me by the headmasters of two of our great schools, the 
almost universal idea of the parents, especially of the 
mothers, is that the diet of their sons must be a fuller 
one than that necessary for the rest of the boys, and 
especially that they must have more butcher's meat. 
Till the parents can be disabused of this idea there can 
be no hope of any improvement. . . . Oatmeal and 
wheaten flour are excellent foods, and, when taken with 
a moderate quantity of milk, form perfect foods." Milk 
is not good for the aged, or even for middle-aged men, 
except in small quantities. The best food in excess 
may be almost as injurious as the worst. 

Dr. Allchin, writing on " Digestion," in Quaiu's 
Dictionary of Medicine, states that more food than 
is required, and that not in the most digestible form, 
is commonly taken. " A habitual excess of food, at 
least in this country, commonly errs in the dispropor- 
tionate amount of nitrooenous matter it contains." ... 
" Many of the compounds resulting from the oxidation 
of nitrogenous matter are liable to become positive 
poisons in the economy when existing in excess." The 
kidneys and skin then become deranged. The result 
of excess of food is often seen in lassitude, want of 
energy, indigestion, headaches, constipation, skin 
eruptions, and feebleness of the heart's action. 



MEDICAL TESTIMONY 417 

In other classes, especially the poor of cities, where 
intoxication, under-feeding, neglect, ignorance, and 
debasement prevail, the consequences to the children 
are deplorable. Mr. Cheatle's report, about 1901, on 
the Han well Poor Law Schools, showed that, of 1000 
children, 520 were not good in hearing, 335 had been 
the subject of discharges from an ear, 88 had chronic 
suppuration, and 434 had adenoids. 

It has been calculated, said Sir James Crighton- 
Browne in 1902, that an entire day's diet of tea, bread, 
and butter on the one hand, and of porridge and milk 
on the other, gives a balance in favour of the latter of 
22 grms. of proteid, 32 grms. of fat, 100 calories, at a 
cost of 4'5d. against 5 '2d. for the tea, bread, and 
butter. " Unhappily, porridge and milk have lost 
their former firm hold on Scotland as its standing 
dish." 

He then stated his conviction that by securing an 
adequate supply of wholesome food, by measuring and 
weighing the children, and by careful attention to their 
requirements, general degeneracy can best be prevented 
and physical efficiency maintained. 

Mr. T. J. Macnamara holds strongly the same 
opinion. " It is a most short-sighted policy to allow 
our young to grow up ill-nourished, and therefore ill- 
developed." The happy-go-lucky lack of concern of 
the community to-day, " is building up for to-morrow 
a tremendous burden of financial cost and social 
degradation." This is true, but what is the remedy ? 
The continual spread of sound teaching, and the 
provision everywhere of depots for cheap, wholesome 
fare. 



CHAPTER X 

Stimulants and Narcotics : Alcohol, Tea, Coffee, 

Opium 

The immense consumption of three drinks which are 
of the nature of drugs, that is, useful in small quan- 
tities in certain states of imperfect health, and 
harmful, frequently disastrous, in any but very small 
C[uantities when taken habitually, makes the effect of 
this common habit a matter of national importance, 
not only economically, but physiologically, looking to 
the future of the race. 

It might be tolerable that the people of this island 
spend every year on unnecessary drinks, mere luxuries, 
a sum larger than the total spent on the whole of its 
education, or the w^hole of its railways, or the whole of 
its religious and medical organisations combined, but 
Nature determines that a o^reat nation addicted to o^ross 
and habitual excess shall either not continue to be 
great, or not endure at all. Only so long as a con- 
siderable portion of it remains temperate, will it survive 
and flourish. 

Many tribes have been entirely swept away by 
alcohol, others are decaying or degenerate, and many 
are deprived of half their efficiency. Alcoholism is an 
endemic that attacks the healthiest as fatally as the 
miserable. 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 419 

Science and a saving common sense have in these 
times thrown so strong a light on the real facts with 
regard to alcohol and other stimulant articles of con- 
sumption, that, when we gather the testimony, there 
can be no reason for any sort of doubt as to their 
influence either upon the man or the nation. 

Chemically, they are alcohols or alkaloids with 
minute but powerful adjuncts ; physiologically, they 
are poisons ; economically, they are wasteful ; politic- 
ally, they are corrupting ; morally, they are degrading ; 
racially, they are enfeebling when recklessly used. 

I find the following views in a recent volume of 
the Practitioner, a medical journal of high repute •} — 

In 1839 some of the most celebrated physicians and 
surgeons — Sir Benjamin Brodie, Sir James Clark, Dr. 
Marshall Hall, Dr. Hope, Drs. Robert Lee, Kay, Mayo, 
Partridge, Quain, B. Travers, and the Ures, etc. — signed 
a strong declaration affirming that a healthy man did 
not need stimulants, and that they tended rather to 
diminish his capacity for work. 

In 1847 another declaration was signed by 2000 
medical men, including Drs. Addison, Bright, Copland, 
Carpenter, Guy, Perreira, Prout, Latham, Sir Henry 
Holland, and Forbes Winslow, to the effect that alco- 
holic liquors did much harm, and that total and 
universal abstinence would greatly contribute to the 
health, the prosperit}^, the morality, and the happiness 
of the human race. 

In 1902 Sir SamuelWilks, M.D., F.R.S., consulting 
physician to Guy's Hospital, wrote : When the practice 
of giving alcohol to weak or convalescent patients was 
stopped, it was recognised that the supposed remedy 
did great harm. Alcohol used to be given as a regular 



420 STRENGTH AND DIET 

thing in fever, but when the fashion was discarded 
patients would pass through the ailment on a simple 
diet alone. The present treatment of rheumatism ,^ 
fever, and pneumonia in the London hospitals is assimi- 
lated to that of a temperance hospital. ..." That a 
person having a weak pulse requires alcohol I should 
reo;ard as a vulo;ar error." 

" As a remedy in nervous diseases alcohol is in- 
valuable, but the greatest care must be used in its 
administration." It can often be used as a sedative. 

Sir Henry Thompson completely cured his rheu- 
matism and hemicrania, not by Carlsbad, but by 
drinking only water instead of alcohol, and by ceasing 
to eat beasts. 

When he was about seventy-five he tried wine 
again, but with ill effect ; it is an " atrocious blunder 
that as men grow old they need more support " of this 
kind. 

Sir William Broad bent considers alcohol to be 
useful as a medicine in many kinds of disease. 

Dr. Sims Woodhead was early impressed, as a 
student at Edinburgh, by the fact that "nearly every 
athlete, who w^as not already an abstainer, became 
practically a teetotaller during his period of strict 
trainino'." It was not the dinins', workino;, or dancino- 
that upset the drinkers, but the difficulty of getting rid 
of even small quantities of alcohol from their system. 
The teetotallers, on the other hand, lived without 
trouble in the ordinary way, " The man who does not 
add alcohol to his waste products is able not only to 
offer a greater resistance to the onslaughts of disease^ 
. . . but to do the best work of which he is capable." 

Dr. James Edmunds, M.D., M.R.C.P., in an in- 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 421 

teresting paper, mentioned that he initiated in 1868 
the system of treating patients at the British Lying-in 
Hospital without alcohoL The mortality of the women 
and infants diminished. The new departure was very 
unpopular with nurses and patients, and eventually 
Mr. Edmunds and his friends separated themselves 
from the hospital and founded the Temperance Hospital 
in 1873. The hospital has been successful, with good 
recoveries and a low mortality. Only 3 out of 129 
operation patients died, and these were extremely severe 
cases. Mr. Edmunds estimates the net cost of alcohol 
to the United Kingdom at £220,000,000 a year. Mr. 
Whittaker's lower estimate, £189,000,600, considerably 
exceeds the annual value of all the dwelling-houses in 
the United Kingdom. 

Mr. Pearce Gould, M.S., F.R.C.S., surgeon to the 
Middlesex Hospital, stated that he has noticed malignant 
disease to advance very rapidly in persons addicted to 
drink ; often while little alcohol was given in the 
hospital the disease made only slow progress. Alcohol 
may in some kinds of disease be usefully employed, but 
anything like a free use of alcohol is strongly to be 
deprecated. 

Mr. Whittaker was quoted as having come to the 
conclusion that practically the whole of the alcoholic 
liquor is consumed by 55 per cent, of the whole j^opu- 
lation, in which children are included. 

Dr. Vacher, M.O.H. for Cheshire, showed that 
110,215 persons died of the very specially alcoholic 
diseases in the twenty years 1881-1900, and that the 
deaths in the last years of the period were very largely 
in excess of the first years ; as regards chronic 
alcoholism, 260 per cent, in excess. London and 



422 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Lancashire have much the highest rate, Cornwall the 
lowest. 

" Of a large number of deaths actually due to the 
drinking of alcohol it is not possible to take account." 

Dr. Ridge, M.D., B.S., B.Sc, wrote that the life- 
shortenino; effect of the continuous action of alcohol is 
clearly shown in the statistics of life assurance societies. 
In one very large society the percentage of actual 
mortality to expected was, in the non-temperance 
section, 95*8 ; in the temperance, 71 "2 per cent. 
Other societies have had a similar experience. 

In the London Temperance Hospital, of 19,209 
patients, only 52 had alcohol given them ; of these 
33 died. The hospital has been entirely successful. 

Not a few doctors, among whom Sir James Paget 
was eminent, have spoken in praise and thankfulness 
for the blessing of good food and wine, including port. 
But these are rather examples of personal temperance 
than of inductive modern research. 

Dr Pavy has written as follows : — 

Strong alcoholic liquids taken repeatedly to a 
prejudicial extent impairs the appetite and digestive 
power ; . . . the liver, kidneys, and nervous system 
very strikingly suffer, a diseased state being set up, 
which forms a distinctly recognisable source of death. 
Nothing, indeed, leads with greater certainty to 
premature death than alcoholic intemperance. 

. . . Gout appears to be the offspring, not of 
simple alcoholic liquid, but of alcohol in combination 
with saccharine and extractive matter. 

A light beer well flavoured with hops is one of 
the most wholesome of alcoholic beverages. 

An able writer in the Daily Chronicle ^ sums u^^ 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 423 

the scientific view in these words : "To discover that 
what is taken ' to keep out the cold ' markedly and 
consistently lowers temperature, and that the indis- 
pensable ' stimulant ' is often administered as a sedative, 
would abolish the absurdity to which most people must 
apparently give credence, that alcohol is invaluable to 
the doctor and yet fills our hospitals and asylums." 

Taken in health, it leads to morbid changes in 
every cell of the body, especially in the nervous 
system. 

" The two worst stimulants are alcohol and opium." 
The best are light and pure air. 

" The cloven hoof of alcohol may be traced with 
the naked eye and with the microscope in all the 
important organs of the body, especially in the diges- 
tive, nervous, and circulatory systems." 

All stimulants affect the heart, but the subsequent 
effect of alcohol is invariably depression of the heart's 
action. 

It has been established experimentally that the 
influence of alcohol, even in small quantities, on the 
working power and rapidity of action of the brain is 
pernicious. 

According to Sir T. Lauder Brunton,^ excess is 
doubly pernicious when the stimulant is taken at 
meal-times. With excess often repeated, delirium 
tremens may result, but when the excess is not so 
great, gradual deterioration of the organisation takes 
place. The organs chiefly affected are the stomach, 
liver, kidneys, and nervous system. 

A little alcohol, such as brandy, is sometimes useful 
to some persons, especially if hard-worked. 

The Rechabites (abstainers) of the Bradford district 



424 STRENGTH AND DIET 

had an average sickness annually for eight years 
(1870-77) of four days two hours, and a death-rate of 
1 in 141 ; the Oddfellows had thirteen days ten hours' 
sickness, and a death-rate of 1 in 44. The payments 
were respectively 5s. 9jd. and 13s. Id. 

The deaths in the United Kingdom Temperance 
Provident Institution and in the general community 
were as follows : — 

Abstinence. General. 

Expected deaths . 2002 3450 

Actual . . 1433 3444 



Survivals . . 569 6 

Percentage less 

than expected . 28-42 0-17 

These figures are the more remarkable in that the 
temperance sections are not made up of hereditary and 
total abstainers from birth. 

According to Dr. Mason of the Inebriate Home at 
Fort Hamilton, New York, the principal predisposing 
cause which led to excess was the hereditary trans- 
mission of the tendency. 

According to Lancereau, organic lesions, especially 
affecting the central nervous system, are derived from 
drunken parents. And amongst the functional troubles 
are hysteria, convulsions, and mental deficiency. 

Of eighty epileptic youths examined by M. Martin, 
sixty were children of parents given to drink ; in 
twenty-three, drunkenness was not ascertained. 

Dr. Brunton concludes his article by stating (l) 
that young and healthy people do not require alcohol, 
and are better without it ; (2) that it is useful in 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 425 

conditions of great weakness, where failure of the 
circulation is threatened ; (3) that no one should take 
more than 2 oz, of absolute alcohol ^^er diem. 

Huxley wrote' to Mr. E. T. Collings : "I would 
just as soon take a dose of arsenic as I would of 
alcohol, under such circumstances [for brain-work]. 
Indeed, on the whole, I should think the arsenic safer, 
less likely to lead to moral and physical degradation. 
If a man cannot do brain-w^ork without alcohol, he had 
better turn to hand-work." From experience, he says, 
" my clear conviction is, the less the better, though I 
by no means feel called upon to forego the cheering 
effect of a little." " For no conceivable consideration 
would I use it to whip up a tired or sluggish brain." 

" Medicus " wrote last year to the Daily News ^ 
concerning "Athletics and Health": "I am in my 
eighty -fifth year. I do not rememljer having ever been 
confined a single day in the house by illness since I 
had typhoid fever over sixty-five years ago. I never 
had a headache, and with the exception of an occa- 
sional cold in the head I have had no illnesses of any 
significance. My opportunities of taking vigorous 
exercise are few, but when I have a holiday I enjoy 
fishino- shootino;, orolfino- bowls, and swimmino^. . . . 
Every morning on rising I do about a quarter of an 
hour of dumb-bell exercise. I then get into a full 
bath and have a good soaping. ... I drink no 
alcohol, and I eat very little butcher's meat, some 
days none. This mode of life agrees with me perfectly. 
... I could never think of prescribing it for all. As 
to athletics, they may suit some, but not all, for how 
many athletes die young, and how often do we find the 
winners of prizes in athletic sports, mountain-climbers, 



426 STRENGTH AND DIET 

and other gymnasts suffering from dilated heart and 
pulmonary emphysema ! The few strong ones escape 
uninjured, the many weak ones go down." 

Sir Benjamin Richardson, M.D., F.R.S., in a re- 
markable lecture, spoke as follows : '^ — " Foods are sub- 
stances which either make up the great mass of the 
body, like water ; or w^hich build up the tissues, like 
albumen, egg, cheese, flesh ; or which burn in the 
body, like fat and oil, starch and sugar, producing 
animal warmth and keeping up the vital fire ; or which 
go to make up the bony structure. Alcohol does not 
belong to water food ; there is nothing in it which it 
can represent in regard to fleshy substances, or the 
structures which make up the skeleton of the body. . . . 
Its imbibition reduces the animal temperature and 
prevents the formation of those products which come 
from the burning of food within the body. . . . We 
can affirm positively that it is no food at all. 

"... There is not a single physician living who is a 
thoughtful man, not a man of moment in the world of 
science, thought, or literature bearing on science, who 
would not tell you candidly and honestly in this day 
that there must be a very strict border-line drawn to 
show where the luxury must stop. 

"... All men who are going into training for row- 
ing, racing, long walks, firing, and the like, . . . dis- 
cover the advantage they get if they altogether abstain 
from the use of this degrading and debasing physical 
agent, alcohol. 

" . . . In regard to mental work, ... we have been 
able to show positively that nothing is so injurious 
to mental work and capacity as for any one to lace 
himself up with strong drink under the idea that he is 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 427 

assisting himself. ... I have seen artists of the 
highest class, writers of the highest class, and the best 
members of my own profession, fall in spite of them- 
selves, in spite of all you can say to them, because 
upon their susceptible, refined, nervous organisation 
their ftilse friend alcohol is of all others the most 
deadly, the most mortal, of seductive poisons. 

" We now know that those men who have been 
total abstainers have lived best, w^orked hardest, 
suffered least, and come home soundest both in heat 
and cold. We know that in the tropics those men who 
have taken least have fought the hardest battles and 
made the best marches ; and those who have taken 
none have been better off still. 

" We have proved that under cold there is nothing 
so bad as this spirit, and that it is, as it were, death 
added to sleep." 

As regards alcohol in fever, which used to be 
believed in. Dr. Gairdner, of Glasgow, was one of 
the first to prove its harmful effect. By reducing 
and abolishing the use of alcohol in his hospital 
he reduced the mortality from thirty-six to eight 
or nine. 

The alcoholic form of consumption, liver disease, 
heart disease, paralysis, apoplexy, dyspepsia, premature 
old age, "a vast mass of disease," are now recognised 
as due to alcohol. 

As regards insanity. Dr. Edgar Shepherd declared 
that forty per cent, of the persons who came into the 
huge asylum under his charge are brought there from 
the direct or indirect effects of alcohol. 

Dr. Mason has stated that the inebriety of parents 
is a predisposing cause of insanity in the children. 



428 STRENGTH AND DIET 

"Ninety-two of 116 cases iii our asylum have such a 
parentage." 

As regards crime, which may be partly regarded as 
mental disorder, the judges of Great Britain have 
estimated the crime due to alcoholism at fifty to ninety 
per cent, of the whole. 

Sir Andrew Clark, M.D., F.R.S., senior physician 
to the London Hospital : ^ " I think it is just to say of 
ourselves that we are a patriotic people, and I, for my 
part, know of no question which strikes home so forcil^ly 
upon the character of the nation as this one question of 
the most appropriate mode of using alcoholic drink. If 
we wish to see this nation prosjDcrous, if we wish to see 
this nation take its right and just place among the 
other nations of the earth, and if we wish to be sure 
that the influence which this nation shall exert upon 
the progress and civilisation, upon the welfare and 
physical happiness as well of mankind, we should be 
well assured of the justness of the answer which is 
to be given to this question. ... I know something 
about this question. For twenty-five years at least I 
have been physician to one of the largest hospitals in 
the country. It has been a part of the daily business 
of my life to ascertain the influence which alcoholic 
drinks exert upon health. ... I am determined to 
speak nothing but the truth. . . . Alcohol is a 
poison. . . . Health is a state which cannot be 
benefited by alcohol in any degree. Nay, it is a state 
which, in nine cases out often, is injured by alcohol. . . . 
A certain state of joy of existence ... is always in 
some way or other injured by alcohol. . . . Alcohol, 
even in small doses, will take the bloom off", will injure 
the perfection of loveliness of health, both mental and 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 429 

moral. . . . There are some people of very feeble 
health, particularly nervous people, who do feel a 
certain comfort from the use of it, . . . and this little 
help being within the minute quantity of a poison 
which I think safe to take, I say ' Well, you have got 
into a habit of it, go on, but take care that you don't 
get your children into the habit with you.' I have 
eighteen hours a day at my work, working in a hurry. . . . 
(Saturday and Sunday as well) . . . ; alcohol is not 
a helpei' of ivork. ... It is a certain hinderer of 
work." . . . 

Sir Andrew Clark then gave an account of Dr. 
Parkes's crucial experiment at Netley, by which gangs 
of soldiers abstaining from alcohol were found to do 
much better work with more energy than those who 
were supplied with beer. 

" Now as to the effect of the use of alcoholic drinks 
upon disease. ... I am speaking solemnly and care- 
fully, in the presence of truth, and I tell you I am 
considerably within the mark when I say to you that, 
going the round of my hospital wards to-day, seven out 
of every ten there owed their ill-liealtli to alcohol. . . . 
They are very good fellows, do their work well, but 
they are always drinking just a little more than the 
physiological cjuantity I mentioned at the beginning. 
Now, these are the men who . . . looking well, yes, 
often feeling well, are yet being sapped and undermined 
by this excess." As to the toper, he is handing down 
to generations yet unborn " the most terrible evil that 
man can suffer. . . . Beware of this enemy of the 
race. 

The following testimony comes from various 
quarters :^ — 



430 STRENGTH AND DIET 

"The cravJDo- for drink is a chronic disease of the 
nervous system." — Sio' Thomas Bm^loiv. 

" Meat is a stimulant, which is the chief cause of the 
difficulty."— i)r. Haig. 

" The growth of meat-eatino- is one cause of the 
increase of drunkenness." — Mr. Bramivell Booth. 

" I have observed that a taste for spicy condiments, 
butcher's meat, and alcoholic liquors is associated." — 
C. O. Groom Napier. 

" Meat should be avoided by the man who would 
utilise his will to conquer his drink crave. I have ncA'er 
had to treat a dipsomaniac who was also a vegetarian, nor 
indeed have I heard of one." — Dr. C. E. Macnamara. 

" Such appetite always has its beginning in exciting 
foods, and narcotic or stimulo-narcotic drinks, and 
depressant or tonic drugs." — Dr. Jackson. 

" Mustard, spices, and pepper only stimulate to 
weaken, and do mischief." — Joseph Livesey. 

" Our experience has taught us that four meals a 
day . . , consisting exclusively of fruits, has often 
been the means of removing the shackles of drink." — 
David Paulson, 31. D. 

" During an experience of more than twenty years, 
I have never known a veg;etarian who was not also a 
total abstainer," — T. H. Evans. 

" Flesh-meat certainly does promote the desire and 
apparent need for drinking." — Scottish Tempe^^ance 
League Journal. 

" The modern [vegetarian] diet will destroy the 
love for drink. The Church can do no wiser thins: 
than help forward dietetic reform." — Methodist Weekly, 
1903. 

" The more flesh food is used, the more serious is the 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 431 

danger of confirmed alcoholism." — Dr. H. B. Fowler, 
forty years Lecturer on Dipsomania. 

"The craving for drink seemed to have left him 
altogether, a not uncommon effect of this particular 
change of diet." — Mrs. Humplirey Ward. 

" The foundation of the drink evil is deeply laid in 
the nurseries and the dining-rooms of the land, and the 
habitual, the universal gluttony permitted." — Dr. E. H. 
Dewey. 

" The eating and drinking reformation is at the 
foundation of all the good that would be produced in 
society." — Joseph B7'otherton, M.P. 

" Most people could drink wine with animal food, but 
not with farinaceous or amylaceous food." — Liehiq. 

"With the reformed diet the liking for alcohol 
was departing, ' a thing I had never imagined to be 
possible.' " — Eustace Miles. 

" Alcohol, even in a dilute form, interferes with 
digestion." — Dr. Henry Munroe, Hull. 

" In alcoholics the risk of surgical operations is very 
much greater than in others." — Dr. Bruntoii, F.R.S. 

" I hardly know any more potent cause of disease 
than alcohol." — Sir William Gull, F.R.S. 

" In 1000 grains of wane there are only 1|- grains of 
nourishment." — Tli e Lancet. 

" When I think of the terrible efiects of the abuse of 
alcohol, I am disposed to give up my profession, to 
give up everything, and go forth upon a holy crusade, 
preaching to all men, ' Beware of this enemy of the 
race ! ' ''—Sir Andrew Clark, M.D., F.R.S. 

Dr. Arthur Newsholme, M.D. Lond., D.P.H., states 
that the rate of mortality of publicans, wine and spirit 
merchants, etc., between the ages of twenty-five and 



432 STRENGTH AND DIET 

forty-five is very little less tlianybttr times the rate of 
clergymen and ministers. 

From twenty-five to sixty-five, more than Jive times 
as many innkeepers (publicans) fall victims to alco- 
holism than other men, and nearly twice as many kill 
themselves by " suicide." More than four times as 
many publicans die of gout. 

Publicans head the list under alcoholism, — liver 
diseases, and gout, and in kidney disease they are 
ahead of all but specially dangerous trades. '^ 

Lord Kitchener, referring to Egypt: "The secret 
of maintaining good health in this country [the Soudan] 
is to be temperate. Every traveller of note, Sir 
Samuel Baker, and a host of others, have had this same 
experience, and I attribute the exceptionally good state 
of this battalion in a large measure to the high per- 
centage of temperance men in it." We ought to get rid^ 
he said, of "the nonsensical and cowardly ideas that 
we can t keep well or can't be good pals without 
having to buck ourselves up with the drink. It is 
all rubbish. ... I can unhesitatingly say that the 
majority of cases of sunstroke I have known in this 
country, in Aden and India, have been due to alcoholic 
excess. ... I was horrified by the number of cases 
of cholera amongst men who were given to alcoholic 
excess. . . . The Egyptian soldiers who, as you 
know, seldom, if ever, touch stimulants revived under 
their action in the most marvellous way." ^^ 

Admiral Cotton, of the United States Navy, in a 
letter to a correspondent : " It is now forty years since 
the spirits ration was abolished in the United States 
Navy, and during that time nothing in the way of 
spirituous or malt liquor has replaced it." " The 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 433 

standard of excellence has been raised to a degree 
that could scarcely have been expected even by the 
most sanguine possible." " I can conceive of no con- 
ditions under which the re-establishment of the spirits 
ration could be advocated ; and I speak from personal 
experience, as my period of service covers both the use 
and non-use." ^^ 

Miss Balo-arnie states in reo-ard to India, that 
Mr, Lloyd, a magistrate at Bangalore, admitted at a 
public meeting that in most of the villages liquor-shops 
were first opened by the Government. The retiring 
Surveyor-General of Ceylon testified that, after thirty- 
four years' experience, he had found crime increased 
amazingly in the country districts, and the general 
tone of the people lowered, and attributed that to the 
liquor-shops opened by the Government, which is 
distiller, brewer, and seller. Twenty-six lacs of rupees 
were gathered in 1875 from this source, sixty-three and 
a half in the most recent year for which reports are out. 

Mr. Sven Hedin writes •}'' " Spirits are an intoler- 
able nuisance in a caravan ; they slacken discipline 
and undermine the men's strength." " Except for 
this alcohol [for natural history specimens], I carried 
no spirits with me." The men, says the author, did 
not seem to miss them. 

Dr. J. J. Pddge, M.D., has pointed out that Dr. W. B. 
Carpenter, F.R.S., some years ago adduced the Govern- 
ment returns of the sickness of the European troops 
of the Madras army for the year 1849 ; the men were 
classed as total abstainers, temperate, and intemperate ; 
the hospital cases were 130, 141, and 214 respectively, 
the deaths, 11, 23, and 44. Later statistics corroborate 
these results. ^^ 

9« 



434 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. Norman Kerr, M.D., in a paper on the " Mor- 
tality from Alcohol," has, after a careful computation, 
arrived at the conclusion that 134,499 persons die 
annually from alcohol in the United Kingdom, of 
which persons 45,562 die by personal intemperance, 
and 89,437 hy the consequences of intemperance in 
others. Children are great sufferers through the self- 
indulgence of parents. 

The annual rate of mortality per 1000 between 
twenty-five and sixty-five among clergymen is 117, 
among publicans, beer and spirit sellers, 26*64. 

Of course, from well-known reasons, the registra- 
tion returns are no criterion whatever of the effects of 
excessive drink in directly or indirectly causing death. 

The organs chiefly damaged by tippling are the 
respiratory, the circulatory, the digestive, the brain, 
the nervous system, the liver, and the kidneys.'^ 

]\Ir. Arthur Sherwell writes : ^^ The Report of the 
Judicial Statistics of Scotland shows a " rapid increase 
in crime and disorder, which began in 1897, and has as 
yet received no check." " Small crimes have increased 
enormously since 1881." 

The average number of commitments to prison per 
10,000 has increased from 120 in 1897 to 149 in 1904, 
by far the highest on record. The Commissioners attri- 
bute the rise to the plenitude of employment and high 
wages, " more money to spend on drink." Out of a 
total of 179,821 persons charged with criminal offences 
in 1900, 114,207 were for offences connected with 
drinking. 

In Aberdeen, the persons charged for breach of the 
peace and drunkenness were 2033 in 1897, 3579 in 
1901. 4509 of the persons dealt with during the 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 435 

year were under the influence of intoxicating liquor. 
Assaults by liuslmnds on wives rose from 48 to 122. 
Drunkenness rose 72 per cent. ; petty assaults, etc., 
78 '4 per cent. 

An examination of persons convicted of serious 
crimes convinced the Commissioners that the majority 
(probably 66 per cent, at least) of such cases are closely 
connected with, and have their real explanation in, 
alcoholism. 

Only 6 per cent, of the prisoners were abstainers. 

The number of crimes committed with the object 
of getting more drink is very great. 

The number of prisoners examined who had begun 
to drink alcohol from boyhood was very notable — 48 
per cent. 

Dr. Clouston, who speaks on the subject of intem- 
perance and insanity " with unrivalled knowledge and 
unquestioned authority," has aflirmed that a larger 
consumption of alcohol has led to a larger proportion 
of cases of insanity and of deaths from nervous 
diseases. 

Brisk trade and high wages have to a large extent 
been the cause of the excessive number of mental cases 
in 1900. And " for every man in whom excessive 
drinking causes absolute insanity, there are twenty in 
whom it injures the brain, blunts the moral sense, and 
lessens the capacity for work." 

Since 1858 the number of lunatics under the 
Scotch Board, while the population has grown by 
49 per cent., has increased 180 per cent. The increase 
of the deaths of women from alcohol from 1855 to 
1900 is no less than 100 per cent. 

The prospect is alarming for Scotland. Dr. 



436 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Clouston does not think that a drink-sodden race can 
be cured [assuming probably the greatest moderation] 
in a hundred years. 

Dr. Havelock, physician-superintendent of Montrose 
Asylum, reports for the year 1903 : Careful investiga- 
tion shows that not more than ten per cent, were 
mentally disordered through alcohol. Yet Dr. Havelock 
strongly recommends great moderation in the use of 
alcohol, and that the majority of those in whom there 
is any family record of insanity should abstain entirely. 
This warning, he points out, includes a very large 
number of persons. ^^ 

Mr. T. P. Whittaker, M.P., writes : '"—'' In 1839 and 
1847 two declarations w^ere signed by the leading 
physicians of the time. 1. "The most perfect health 
is compatible with total abstinence from all intoxicating 
beverag-es." 2, "Total and universal abstinence from 
alcoholic liquors and beverages of all sorts would 
greatly contribute to the health of the human race." 
Gradually in the course of fifty years these opinions 
have received the mass of corroborative evidence which 
is required to satisfy the mass of prejudice which always 
occupies the j)osition of advantage. Mr, Whittaker's 
case forms a tremendous indictment of human weak- 
ness. 

From the ages of twenty to seventy-four the 
mortality of abstainers is very considerably lower 
than that of the non-abstainers. 

For the whole period of life between ten and 
ninety-five, the number of deaths in the temperance 
section was 5124 ; at the rate of the general section it 
would have been 6959. The mortality of the general 
section is higher by thirty-six per cent. 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 437 

From twenty-five to sixty years, tlie great working 
period, the difference is forty per cent. 

Out of 100,000 persons alive at thirty, in the two 
sections, 11,207 more abstainers than non-abstainers 
would be alive at seventy. 

Dr. Tatham's report of results of investigations ^' on 
the deaths from alcohol and diseases of the liver (the 
organ chiefly affected Ijy liquor), in different occupa- 
tions, gives the following number of deaths, taking 
those of occupied males at 100 : — 

Coachmen, cabmen 153 Musicians . . 168 Butchers . . 228 

Costermongers . 163 Hairdressers . 175 Brewers . . 250 

Coalheavers . ,165 Dock labourers . 195 Inn servants . 420 

Fishmongers . 168 Chimneysweepers 200 Innkeepers . . 733 

" All evidence points to the fact that alcohol, 
except in strict moderation, is injurious to men who 
are exposed to extremes of climate (great heat and 
great cold), or who have to undergo great bodily or 
mental labour. Its effect on the circulation is dis- 
tinctly injurious to those engaged in hard bodily 
work." . . . 

" For thoroughly healthy people, alcohol in any 
form presents no advantages, and for children and 
young people it is decidedly injurious." 

From an address by M. Georges Berbey on 
" Alcohol, the Purveyor of Misery and Crime," I take 
these extracts : — " The ravages of alcohol are frightful. 
It devastates many of our finest provinces — Normandy, 
Brittany, the Vosges, Picardy, Maine. The population 
of the Orne has diminished by 80,000 in the course of 
the last twenty-live years. Infant mortality increases. 
Alcohol costs the loss of an army corps every year. It 
is a cause of tuberculosis; 150,000 young men die of 



438 STRENGTH AND DIET 

phthisis every year. Crime, epilepsy, madness, misery 
are abiuidautly produced by it. The miners could in 
ten years buy up all the mines in France with the 
money they spend on alcoholic drinks." 

Seventeen pages are occupied with the crimes 
committed in England during the Christmas and New 
Year week of 1903. "One would think," said a 
mao-istrate, " you were celebrating the birth of the 
devil rather than the birth of Christ." ^^ 

In figures the actual reported offences give a slight 
idea of the prevalence of intemperance at that season. 

Murders 6 Damage to property . . .27 

Manslaughters .... 3 Eobberies through drink . . 12 

Suicides, or attempted . . 16 Cruelty to children . . .10 

Stabbing and wounding . .17 Drunk in charge of children . 8 

Sudden or violent deaths . . 53 Drunk in charge of vehicles . 3 

Outrageous and violent assaults 51 Perilous accidents . . .3 

Assaults upon wives . . .26 Old offenders . . . .24 

Assaults upon constables . . 44 Miscellaneous . . . .59 
Drunken, obscene language . 12 

The great rise in the death-rate for the week or 
two after Christmas is probably as much the result of 
excessive eating as of intoxication. 

Professor Peellmann has found, as a result of 
inquiry into the posterity of an alcoholic ancestress, 
that during seventy-five years, out of the 709 
descendants which he had been able to trace, 596 
had come within the arms of the law. 

The French Minister of Justice has just published 
statistics showing that 53 per cent, of the persons 
convicted of murder, 57 of those convicted of arson, 
and 90 per cent, of those convicted of causing bodily 
harm, were drunkards ; out of those convicted for 
offences against morals, 53 per cent, were habitually 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 439 

heavy drinkers, and of vagabonds and beggars, 70 per 
cent, were heavy drinkers,^'' 

It is stated in the report of the inspectors of 
kmatics for Ireknd for 1901-1902, that "the total 
number of lunatics under care increases in Ireland at 
a rapid rate in proportion to the population." . . . 
There is a " rapid increase of general paralysis amongst 
the urban population of Ireland, where it was com- 
paratively unknown not many years ago." At the 
same time the amount of alcohol consumed per head 
has increased, and both beer and whisky are commonly 
drunk to excess. 

It is reported concerning the Floodgate Street area 
in Birmingham, that one-third of the deaths were in 
public institutions. More than one-third of the 
children attendino; the Board schools were half-starved 
and wholly untended. There was one public-house 
to every 89 of the men and women over eighteen ; 
£300 a week was spent in drink by the 1500 families 
living in that area, whose total earnings only reached 
£1050. All these things and worse were described by 
witnesses who had a right to speak, by the teachers, 
missionaries, and manufiicturers living in that area, 
and yet their evidence and appeal were disregarded, 
and all the licences objected to were renewed.'" 

In the same month the opinion of " several dis- 
tinguished physicians " who had been interviewed, was 
given in the Press : " Were humanity as considerate 
for posterity as it is for the sick, many scourges that 
are now rampant might before many years be utterly 
stamped out." 

Windfall monei/ sijent in drink and crime. — It is 
a common thing, when any large or unexpected sum 



440 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of money comes to persons of the labouring class, for 
the whole to be spent on intoxicating liquor. On 
almost any part of the coast the wreck of a vessel 
containing barrels of alcoholic liquor is followed by 
an orgie of drink and death. High wages are often 
similarly spent. Men recently employed in making 
a railroad in Perthshire drank themselves desperately 
drunk every Saturday ; some of them had to be picked 
off the roads where they lay, and nursed back to 
consciousness. A recent example of a mode of enjoy- 
ment on festive occasions will suffice. 

On 26th February 1904, at Wolverhampton, a 
master plasterer gave his workmen a treat, consisting 
of a barrel of beer and drinks of brandy and ginger- 
beer. At this man's request, his guests were cleared 
out by the police five times, until they were nearly all 
helplessly drunk. Late in the evening one of the men 
was killed in the house. -^ 

Under "free trade in beer," in a few years follow- 
ing 1824, alehouse licences rose from 47,933 to 51,482, 
and spirit licences from 37,196 to 45,675. In October 
1830, every ratepayer gained the right to open a beer- 
shop on paying £2, 2s. to the Excise Office. The ejQFect 
was immediate and disastrous. Sydney Smith, who 
had advocated "free trade," wrote, "Everybody is 
drunk. The sovereign people are in a beastly 
state." ^"^ 

Mr. John Burns, in his recent very able address 
for the Lees and Raper Trust, spoke of his observation 
of the ravages of alcohol in the workshop, the street, 
the asylum, and the jail. "Drinking dissipates the 
social force, industrial energy, and political strength 
of the people. The general summary of my life's 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 441 

experience amongst the working classes of this and 
other countries ... is that Drink, with too many of 
them, is their bane, drunkenness their curse, excessive 
drinkino" their ofreatest defect. ... It is the chief 
cause of many of the difficulties that beset and burden 
them as workman, husband, fother, bread-winner, and 
citizen." It is " an ancient folly that blights modern 
mankind." It " undermines manhood, enervates 
maternity," and, as Lord Brougham said, " is the 
mother of want and the nurse of crime." " It is the 
greatest item of our Imperial spending." The esti- 
mated expenditure of the nation on intoxicants during 
the last twenty-five years is four thousand millions 
(£4,000,000,000); in 1903 the expenditure was over 
£174,000,000, at the rate of £4, 2s. 4d. per head, or 
about £18, 15s. 4d. per working-class family, and 
£46, 18s. 2d. per family of other classes. It is stated 
by investigators that about 50 to 55 per cent, of 
the whole people are abstainers. Therefore the 
drinkers really spend more than £25 j^er family per 
annum on alcohol. 

In Dr. Tatham's supplement to the Registrar- 
General's fifty-fifth report, it is computed that the 
mortality figure of the publicans in industrial districts 
is 2030 compared with 1000 for all males, with 664 
for grocers, 632 for labourers, and 533 for clergymen. 

Dr. Eccles, Sir Victor Horsley, Dr. Mott, and 
others are stated to have said that alcohol predisposes 
to or accentuates all forms of illness. 

Dr. C. K. Millar, medical officer for Leicester, 
considers intoxicating drink as a greater preventable 
evil by far than all others combined affecting public 
health. 



442 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Mr. Charles Booth finds it to be the most prohfic 
of all causes of trouble amono; the workino- classes. 

Mr. Booth, Mr. Rowntree, Mr. Whittaker, and Mr. 
M'Dougall estimate that 25 to 51 per cent, of cases 
of poverty are due to intemperance. 

In Belgium, 43 per cent, of the accidents in mines 
and factories appear to be caused by it. 

In the London General Hospital, on Saturday 
niohts, according to 8ir Victor Horsley, 90 per cent, 
of the injuries are directly due to drink. 

Mr. Burns quotes Dr. Oliver as a great authority 
on the physiological effect of alcohol. " Alcohol first 
stimulates and then depresses the neuro - muscular 
system. . . . Alcohol benuml)s the sense of fatigue 
and leads to an extravagant expenditure of energy." 
Typewriters, etc., make fewer errors when they abstain. 
Taken for long, and in excess, alcohol leads to an 
untimely death. Diseases of digestion, liver, heart, 
and nerves, idleness, unfitness for work, attend upon 
the misuse of stimulants. 

Dr. Griltmett found in his experiments upon work 
and alcohol that more work was done without than 
with the drink. The experience of an American em- 
ployer of labour, who divided his men into two sets, 
was that, after five days, the abstainers did the most 
work. All modern experience shows that in arduous 
undertakinos total abstinence is rewarded. 

Dr. Lonnet gives this very valuable testimony on 
the infiuence of alcoholism in parents on their children. 
He found that ninety-nine women wdio died before age 
twenty-nine from alcoholism had, before becoming 
addicted to alcohol, twenty-eight children, all of whom 
were healthy and vigorous ; after becoming addicted 



STIMUI>AXTS AND NARCOTICS 443 

to alcohol they had six children, and these were delicate 
or deformed. 

Mr. Burns was informed by a London sanitary 
inspector that he had never yet served an overcrowding 
notice except on tippling tenants, and had never issued 
a notice to abate a nuisance on a teetotaller. 

It is established in this paper beyond dispute that 
a risino- wao;e rate and increased leisure are associated 
with increase of drunkenness, crime, and lunacy. In 
this connection it is curious to notice that in a Lanca- 
shire town the arrests for drunkenness on Saturday 
are 2317, on Thursday and Friday, 738 and 766. 

The following views come from American labour 
leaders : — " If I could inaugurate a strike, I would drive 
the liquor traffic from the face of the earth." — P. M. 
ArtJncr. 

" The liquor traffic is responsible for nine-tenths 
of the misery among the working - classes." — T. V. 
Poivderley. 

" In every case, so far as my observation goes, 
drunkenness was at the bottom of the misery, and 
not the industrial system or the industrial conditions 
surrounding the men and their families." — U.S. Com- 
missioner Carrol D. Wright. 

Cardinal Vaughan said of the drink traffic in 1899 : 
" The houses of the trade are studded over the most 
squalid and poorest districts, and are so many vampires 
sucking the life-blood out of the bodies of the poor. 
Disease, crime, and pauperism are perpetuated, . . . 
Vain is the appeal to the Legislature ; both Houses are 
too deeply interested in the trade as it stands." 

Belgium, according to the Governor of Hainault, 
has 190,000 public-houses; the people drink 2'42 



444 STRENGTH AND DIET 

gallons of 40-degTee alcohol, or 55 gallons of beer 
a head, and the cost per family is £14, 4s., per head 
£3, 4s. " Alcoholism gives 80 per cent, of the suicides, 
74 per cent, of the condemnations to imprisonment, 79 
per cent, of the poorhouse boarders, 45 per cent, of the 
cases of insanity, 43 per cent, of the accidents in mines 
and factories. 

In some towns, every third house is a bar. As in 
France, the multiplication of these drinking-shops has 
enormously increased the tippling, the disease, demor- 
alisation, degradation, crime, and decrepitude of the 
people. 

As to the remedy for the immense evils and the 
national peril of alcoholism, Mr. Burns says : " The 
chief stepping-stone is personal abstinence, — the best, 
as it is the first and most enduring of all remedies." 

The report of the Royal Commission on Intemper- 
ance, and the reports of judicial statistics show ^hat 
there has been a rapid increase of drinking and of crime 
and disorder in Scotland since 1897. The numbers 
of offences are now at an unexampled figure. The 
increase is attributed to the increased number of 
irresjular workers, and the hio;her wages with increased 
employment. Insanity and nervous disorders are 
much more common; the insane were, in 1861-65, 
205 per 100,000, in 1896-1900 they were 337.'' 

The Departmental Committee on Physical Deteriora- 
tion had evidence that in the alcoholic family there is 
a decrease of vitality in successive children, the earlier- 
born children being healthy, the later deficient, 
epileptic, or otherwise diseased. Many of the children 
of drunkards, however, are not permitted by natural 
law to survive. 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 445 

" As the result of the evidence laid before them, the 
Committee are convinced that the abuse of alcoholic 
stimulants is a most potent and deadly agent of 
j^hy steal deterioration.'^ 

Tea and Coffee. 

The excellent refreshing qualities of tea and coftee 
have made their infusions the commonest drinks in 
many countries during the last thirty years. They 
were first imported in small consignments from China 
and Persia two or three centuries ago. Their powerful 
and even fatal influence when used in excess was early 
recognised. 

In Graham's Social Life in Scotland in the 
Eighteenth Century^ tea-drinking is related to have 
been thought " not less mischievous than clram- 
drinking." Tea was much condemned by old-fashioned 
people, and sj)aringiy used. Tea- and whisky-drinking 
were " exceedingly hurtful to health and morals." -^ 
Tea was first used in Scotland at the end of the seven- 
teenth century. Towards the end of the eighteenth 
century " there was scarcely a house in the parish, 
except those in indigent circumstances, in which tea 
was not used at least once a week, and by many of the 
farmers twice a day." Coldingham speaks of tea and 
whisky as superfluous and pernicious articles. ^^ And 
Pencaitland says : " The rage for finery is much more 
harmless than the tea- and dram-drinking which per- 
vaded almost every town and great village." ■'' 

Since those days the increase of the amount of tea 
drunk in the United Kingdom has been nearly con- 
tinuous. 



446 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The consumption of tea in the United Kingdom 
per head was in 1852 2 lb., in 1859 2-67 lb., in 1878 
4-5 lb., in 1885 5 lb., in 1900-3 6' 5 lb. 

China supplied 98 per cent, in 1857-9, only about 
2 per cent, in 1903,-' when the stronger Indian tea had 
taken its place. 

Meat (flesh) imports in 1857-59 were 1*24 million 
cwt. ; in 1874-76, 57; in 1889-91, 13-16; in 1899- 
1901, 20-23. 

The flesh imports per head were in 1857 5 '9 5 lb., in 
1903 50 lb. 

The Statistical Society's report on flesh-meat con- 
sumption^^ show^ed that the mechanics and labourers 
consume per annum 107 lb., the lower middle classes 
122 lb., the middle classes 182 lb., the upper classes 
300 lb. 

This computation counts the bone, etc. into the 
weight, but omits poultry and game, potted meats, 
heads, hearts, tongues, livers, etc. 

It is obvious that the consumption both of tea and 
of flesh has very largely increased during the last fifty 
years. 

The Daily Mail Year-Booh for 1903 gives the 
follow^ing account of the reported consumption of tea 
and coffee in several countries : — 



Tea- 



Kiuedom ^'"^sia. Germany. Holland. France. 



1898 


5-86 


0-82 


0-11 


1-39 


0-05 


0-93 


7-21 


6-41 


3-89 


1899 


5-98 


0-79 


0-11 


1-39 


0-05 


0-98 


7-63 


6-40 


4-72 


1900 


6-10 


0-93 


0-12 


1-48 


0-06 


1-09 


7-81 


6-78 


4-64 


Coffee— 





















Klngd^u.e--°^- »""^»<'- ^''•«"'-- ^--^- /unX. S™ t^aUa. Ze^trnd. ^•■'-''- 

1894-96 0-69 5-27 15-13 8-23 4-14 1-96 8-58 

1897-99 0-70 6*00 21-37 10-19 4-51 2-09 10-86 0-58 0-34 1-06 

1900 0-71 6-29 16-57 8-5 4-66 2-06 9-81 0-58 0-27 1-00 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 447 



Tea and Coffee togethe 

United q 
Kingdom. 

1900 6-81 6-41 18-05 4-72 10-90 8-39 7-05 5-70 



KFnSon,. Genuany. Holland. France. ^^^ Australia. ^^'-.^ Canada. 



John Wesley ^Y^ote in 1748 : "'' " I could not imagine 
what should occasion the shaking of my hand, till I 
observed it was always worst after breakfast, and that 
if I intermitted tea-drinking for two or three days it 
did not shake at all. Upon inquiry, I found tea had 
the same effect on other persons of my acquaintance, 
and therefore saw that this was one of its natural 
effects, as several physicians have often remarked, 
especially when it is largely and frequently drank, and 
most of all on persons of weak nerves. . . . July was 
two years I began to observe that abundance of the 
people of London with whom I conversed laboured 
under the same and many other paralytic disorders 
and that in a much higher degree ; inasmuch that 
some of their nerves were quite unstrung, their bodily 
strength quite decayed, and they could not go through 
their daily labour." After a daily practice of tea- 
drinking for twenty-seven years, Wesley left it off". 
The eftects of relinquishing it fully answered his 
expectations. " My paralytic complaints are all gone, 
my hand is steady as it was at fifteen. ... I save 
upwards of fifty pounds [!] a year. Many eminent 
physicians have declared . . . that if frequently used 
by those of weak nerves it is no other than a slow 
poison. AYhen I first left off tea, I was half asleep all 
day long ; my head ached from morning till night. 
... In a week's time all these inconveniences were 
gone." 

Dr. R. J, Mann, F.R.C.S., describes the action of 



448 STRENGTH AND DIET 

theine as follows : Theiiie exerts a very powerful 
iiiHueiice upon the nerve structure of human beings, 
when administered in a concentrated state. It first 
lessens the heart's stroke, then produces a feeling of 
pleasant excitement. In large doses it causes wake- 
fulness. In very large doses it may be followed by 
convulsions and death. It is a compound similar to 
morphia and nicotine. Two teaspoonfuls of tea 
furnish 4 to 6 grs., which is the full stimulant 
dose. There are about 175 grs. of theine to 1 lb. 
of the leaves. ^° 

According to Dr. Pavy, tea is a light beverage, 
and, taken in moderate quantity, exhilarating and 
restorative. But when tea is consumed in a strong 
state and to a hurtful extent, it is capable of acting in 
a powerful manner on the nervous system. Nervous 
agitation, muscular tremors, a sense of prostration and 
palpitation, constitute effects that have been witnessed, 
... It diminishes the action of the bowels. Coffee is 
invigorating and restorative, but more heating and 
stimulating than tea, heavier and more oppressive 
to the stomach. It is not so powerful in dispos- 
ing to wakefulness as [strong] tea. In immoderate 
quantity it produces feverishness, disordered nervous 
action, tremor, palpitation, anxiety, and deranged 
vision. ^^ 

Sir T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.S., says that 
amongst the Chinese tea is only infused for a very 
short time ; after a few seconds the water is poured off. 
The combined effect of very hot tea and of the tannin 
in a strong infusion produces dyspepsia. Other con- 
stituents than tannin contribute to this effect. A 
single cup will sometimes bring on great acidity and 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 449 

heartburn. When long infused, its harmful action 
is much greater. Tea with animal flesh should be 

o 

altooether avoided. 

Coffee is more apt than tea to disorder the digestion 
in many people, and in some causes biliousness. When 
taken in excess it not only produces digestive disturb- 
ance, but nervous symptoms, palpitation, restlessness, 
irritability, and general nervous depression. In most 
cases of dyspepsia coffee does not agree. ^^ 

Sir Risdon Bennett, M.D., F.R.S., states that the 
proper way of making tea, in the Chinese fashion, is to 
put the tea into a cup, and having poured hot water 
on it, to drink the infusion off the leaves without any 
addition. The Russians drink tea with a squeeze of 
lemon but no milk. Tea contains volatile oil, gluten, ■ 
tannin, and theine. The volatile oil is apparently the 
cause of giddiness, headache, tremors, etc., and wake- 
fulness. These effects are greatest in green and in 
new tea. The tannin causes indigestion. The nerves 
of some people are very much affected by a small cup 
of coffee, and it produces wakefulness.^^ 

Dr. Eugene Talbot, M.D., D.D.S., of Chicago, 
writes that professional tea-tasters have long been 
known to suffer from nervous symptoms ; very early 
in the practice of their occupation the head-pressure 
symptoms of neurasthenia occur. Tremor also occurs 
early, and eye disorders. Symptoms of excessive tea- 
drinking are — nervous excitement, nervous dyspepsia, 
rapid and irregular heart action, neuralgia of the 
heart, etc.^^ 

In the Lancet for 1891 (November) an account is 
given of the origin of the nervous symptoms in infants 
whose mothers were excessive tea-drinkers. "It is 
29 



450 STRENGTH AND DIET 

evident that tea produces a grave form of neurasthenia 
readily transmissible to descendants." Tea tends to 
check both stomach and bowel digestion, and thus 
increases self-poisoning. 

Excessive coffee-drinking produces similar effects. 
Mendel finds that in Germany coffee inebriety is 
increasing and supplanting alcohol. Profound depres- 
sion, with sleeplessness and headache, are early 
symptoms. There is much tremor and rapid heart 
action.^* 

The British Medical Journal says : "It is well 
known — and English physicians have laid great stress 
on this point — that the abuse of coffee and tea often 
brings on gastralgia, dyspepsia, and, at the same 
• time, more or less disturbance of the apparatus of 
innervation." 

Sir William Roberts showed that tea and coffee 
interfered with the digestion of proteid, and that their 
total effect is to delay or prevent digestion. 

Dr. Kellogg discards tea and coffee from the bill of 
fare of his sanatorium, " because they are poisons, mild 
intoxicants," injurious to the nervous system and to 
digestion. " The digestion of starch ceases entirely 
in the presence of tea or coffee." They also dilute the 
gastric juice.^^ 

I find the following reports in Dr. Alcott's book On 
Tea and Coffee : — 

Mr. Burdell, a dentist of New York, often noticed 
the great nervousness of tea-drinkers. 

Dr. John Cole, M.R.C.P., London, noticed, in a 
series of careful observations, the following effects of 
tea : — Discomfort, sinking, feeling of emptiness and 
craving, fulness, frequent sighing, excitement, quick 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 451 

pulse, etc. The last symptoms also follow the use of 
strong coffee. 

Aggravated symptoms with susceptible subjects or 
excessive tea- and coffee-drinkers are these : vertigo, 
unsteady gait, formication of the scalp, violent pain in 
the head, fluttering and feeble pulse, fulness of the 
chest, palpitation of the heart, irritability of mind, 
syncope. 

Dr. Cole was able to cure many cases of this kind 
by enjoining abstinence. 

Dr. Cullen, the eminent Scotch physician, found that 
^' scientific experiments prove that an infusion of green 
tea has the effect to destroy the sensibility of the 
nerves and the irritability of the muscles." 

Further, without excluding black tea : " From the 
experiments above mentioned, and from the observa- 
tions which I have made in the course of fifty years, 
upon all sorts of persons, I am convinced that the 
properties of tea are both narcotic and sedative." 

As by an increased dose they " extinguish the vital 
principle altogether, they . . . properly and strictly 
may be called poisonous." 

Dr. Combe writes ^'^ that "when made very strong, 
or taken in large quantity, . . . they not only ruin 
the stomach, but very seriously derange the health of 
the brain and nervous system." 

Dr. Bell of Philadelphia, Professor Sweetser and 
Dr. Burdell of New York, and Dr. Hooper^" give 
similar opinions. The latter says that the Chinese 
keep tea for at least twelve months before using it, in 
order that its narcotic properties may evaporate. 

Dr. Beaumont, the well-known surgeon of the 
United States early in last century, states that " even 



452 STRENGTH AND DIET 

tea and coffee, the common beverage of all classes of 
people, have a tendency to debilitate the digestive 
organs." The effects are often not perceived, but the 
constant habit of using even a weak decoction of the 
narcotic has an injurious influence. Much damage is 
done to the teeth by the frequent drinking of hot 
tea and coffee, and consequently in many cases the 
digestion becomes affected by this in addition to the 
direct effect. In Dr. Arbuthnot's words : " Mastication 
is a very necessary preparation of solid aliment, without 
which there can be no oood dioestion." 

Experiments on cows showed that a herd fed upon 
slops, hot from a distillery, very soon got their teeth 
and jaws 1)adly diseased. 

Prof. Albert Prescott wrote in the Fojndar Scie^ice 
Monthly for 1882, that caffeine and theine are built on 
the chemical type of the alkaloids, bodies which include 
narcotics, stimulants, hypnotics, deliriants, poisons,, 
tonics, some of them affecting the whole nervous 
system, one to excite, another to depress, and others 
influencing only parts of the body. But Dr. Sharper,^ 
in the British Medical Journcd, showed that theine 
with the infusion from tea leaves, containing the 
essential oil, is a very different thing from theine 
alone. Theine may quiet the nerves, but the essential 
oil may excite them, and is the substance to which 
must be ascribed the disorders of the nervous system 
which affect tea-drinkers and coffee-drinkers. 

Dr. Page concludes that all stimulants and poisons, 
as tobacco, coffee, distilled liquors, etc., tend to local 
and general paralysis. Irritability, nervousness, etc., 
are the result of impoverished blood and j)oisoned 
circulation. 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 453 

Large quantities of drink, swallowed with a meal, 
have a bad effect, and are quite unnecessary, " hence 
many unpleasant sensations, such as fulness, wind, 
distention, heat, acidity, and even pain ; hence, too, 
chronic inflammation . . . and many more diseases." 

Mr. Graham, in his lectures,^^ states that " tea and 
coffee are among the most powerful poisons of the 
vegetable kingdom." Professor Hitchcock says " their 
bewitching influence lies in their narcotic properties." 
Dr. Trotter, alluding to nervous maladies, says that 
*' tliQ only means of cure lies in a total abstinence from 
every species of fermented liquor . . . and tea, coffee, 
opium, and all other narcotics." Of coffee Dr. Combe 
says that it increases our comfort for the time, but, like 
all other stimulants, exhausts the sensibility of the part 
on which it acts. The Italian medical writer Sinibaldi 
.says, "The new drink," coffee, produces debility, disorder 
of digestion, palsy of the limbs, and vertigo, and 
contributes most shockingly to the destruction of our 
constitution. 

Mr. Burdell, in his experiments on small animals, 
found that coffee produced more excitement of the 
nervous system than tea, but did not produce death so 
quickly. 

Dr. Hahnemann has described in an interestinsf 

O 

way the pleasant first effects and the unpleasant later 
effects of coffee on the sensations and constitution. 

The effect of coffee and strong tea on children is 
worse than on grown persons. Feeble appetite, 
timidity, gloom, discontent, bad sleep, difficult 
dentition, sore eyes, a hectic condition, and un- 
steady gait, are among the symptoms. 

Dr. Combe's observation deserves more general 



454 STRENGTH AND DIET 

appreciation than it receives : " Health is more fre- 
quently undermined by the gradual operation of 
constant though unperceived causes than by any great 
and marked exposures of an accidental kind." 

Finally, Dr. Alcott, from forty years' observation,, 
finds " heart trouble " often fatal, the greatest evil 
resulting from coflfee, tobacco, etc. They " disturb the 
nerves that operate the heart," and all persons who are 
not strong in circulatory power are likely to break 
down under the effect of these substances. 

Dr. Bock writes : " The nervousness and peevishness 
of our times are chiefly attributable to tea and coffee." 
" The dioestive oro-ans of confirmed coffee-drinkers are 
in a state of chronic derangement, which reacts on the 
brain." 

Sir Benjamin Richardson asserts that the misery of 
the women of the poorer classes is more than doubled 
by the use of tea. 

Messrs. Parkes and Kenwood, in their Hygiene^ 
observe that " the action of tea on the system is similar 
to that of coffee. It is valuable as a nervous stimulant, 
and restorative in fatigued conditions. Its abuse leads 
to constipation, weakened digestion, . . . nervous de- 
pression, sleeplessness, and trembling." 

In the report of the Committee on Physical De- 
terioration, I find that Dr. Purdon of Belfast is quoted 
by Dr. Young with entire approval in saying that living 
so much on white bread, tea, and jam, instead of oat- 
meal and milk, is doing a great deal of harm. Formerly 
the children lived on oatmeal, buttermilk, and 23otatoes 
— excellent food. Dr. Robert Hutchison stated that the 
chief fault of the diet of the working classes is the 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 455 

excessive use of tea and bread. Much anaemia and 
neurosis results from this habit. At Manchester the 
custom of drinking a stew of tea at breakfast and in 
the factories leads to much illness, including varicocele, 
excessive constipation, etc. A very large number of 
young men are rejected for the army on account of 
ailments brought on by tea-drinking. 

Dr. Hawkes' experience in Finsbury showed that 
many women and girls took three or four pints of 
*' tea-poison " in the course of the day. Pickles and 
vinegar were often the staple of the meal which ought 
to have been a solid one, and this wretched stuff was 
washed down with tea. " An enormous amount of 
dyspepsia" was thus set up, and to allay pain the 
women resort to alcohol, with the worst consequences. 

The Commissioners note that " a strikins* consensus 

o 

of opinion was elicited as to the effects of improper or 
insufficient food in determining physique," and re- 
commend the instruction of mothers and of children in 
matters of diet and hygiene. 

Nansen, a very competent observer, has WTitten in 
his Eskimo Life : "It was, of course, a clear necessity 
to forbid the sale of brandy in Greenland on pain of 
greatly accelerating the extermination of the race. . . . 
I hokl that not only should the sale of brandy be pro- 
hibited, but also the sale of coffee, tobacco, and the 
other indubitably noxious, or, at anyrate, valueless 
products which we have introduced among the natives. 
It took us a long time to make them acquire the taste 
for them. . . . On the west coast we have unhappily 
been successful in begetting the taste for coffee, and this 
has not a little contributed to the decline of the race." 

Excessive tea-drinking is named by the Irish Com- 



456 STRENGTH AND DIET 

missioiiers for Lunacy as a cause of the increasing 
insanity among the people of Ireland, 

In a very large number of cases tea and coffee, like 
opium, cocaine, and other drugs recklessly imbibed, 
weaken the organism to such a degree, and so shatter 
the nerves, that worries which could in a healthy state 
be well borne become capable of most seriously in- 
capacitating body and mind. Even when far short of 
producing immediately serious effects, they exert an 
enfeebling influence on the coming generations. 

Opium, though of little general importance in 
Europe, has immense influence for evil in the Far 
East. Great numbers of the people of China are being 
degraded or destroyed by this drug, which has been 
introduced in a most pernicious form at the point of 
the sword by Great Britain. In England it has only 
destroyed a few fine intellects, like De Quincey and 
Coleridge. In China it destroys the intelligence of 
multitudes, and brings many of the best people to a 
miserable death. 

The cultivation of opium in India for export to 
China has been defended on the ground of revenue 
necessities, but the same kind of argument could be 
used for every selfish crime and for any massacre 
profitable to the State. An ex - President of the 
AVesleyan Conference has said that, if realised, the 
calamity we are daily inflicting on China would over- 
whelm us with remorse. It has been called " England's 
greatest contribution to the wretchedness of the world." 
Many distinguished administrators, medical men, and 
missionaries have testified to the immensity of the 
evil. 

Some, like Surgeon -General Moore, have testified 



STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS 457 

that opium - smoking is harmless. But Archdeacon 
Moule, on the contrary, declares that no Chinese in 
his senses, no missionary, no medical man, no civilian 
at all acquainted with Chinese life, would indorse for 
A moment this opinion. 

Sir Thomas Wade, our Ambassador or Minister in 
China, says : " It is vain to think otherwise than that 
the habit is many times more pernicious, nationally 
speaking, than the gin- and whisky-drinking which we 
deplore at home. ... I know no case of radical cure. 
It has ensured, in every case within my knowledge, the 
steady descent, moral and physical, of the smoker." 

Sir Rutherford Alcock, our Minister to Japan, and 
then to China, said before the Royal Commission that 
^' the abhorrence expressed by the Government and 
the people of China for opium as destructive to the 
Chinese nation was genuine and deep-seated. ... If 
Great Britain would give up the opium revenue, and 
suppress the cultivation in India, the Chinese Govern- 
ment would have no difficulty in suppressing it in 
China." The appeal from the Government of China 
stated that " opium is like a deadly poison, most 
injurious to mankind." 

Sir Rutherford had no doubt that China was much 
better before the great consumption of Indian opium 
began. They were " about the most temperate of 
races ; their food was chiefly vegetable food ; they had 
no stimulants, except a mild tobacco and tea. . . . 
They have always been known as a most industrious 
race. . . . They were infinitely better ofl" without the 
opium." 

A very weighty memorial was signed by 5200 
medical men in 1892, declaring that tlie habit of 



458 STRENGTH AND DIET 

opium-smoking or opium-eating is morally and physi- 
cally debasing ; that its unrestrained sale is associated 
with many and grave dangers to the well-being of the 
people of India ; that opium ought to be classed and 
sold as a poison ; and that its sale should be pro- 
hibited, except for medical purposes, by the Govern- 
ment of India. 

In Chang Chih-tung's book, Chinas 07ily Hope, 
he states that its use has spread with frightful rapidity 
and heart-rending results ; millions upon millions have 
been struck down. The author is described by Dr. 
Griffith John as the truest of patriots and a most able 
statesman. 

Mrs. Bishop (Isabella Bird), who travelled far in 
China, testified to the enormous risks even of moderate 
opium-smoking, and to the commercial, industrial, 
and moral ruin and physical deterioration which 
follows it. 

John Bright said nothing more vicious could be 
found in history than our treatment of China. 

Opium suited for smoking is forbidden to be im- 
ported into New Zealand. 

In Japan, opium-smoking is illegal, and severely 
punished. Importation is forbidden. 

Some consequences of immoderate tobacco-smoking 
have been alluded to earlier in this volume ; others 
will be mentioned in the next chapter. It is very 
significant that its disastrous efiects are so far 
recognised in North America, that forty-two States 
of the Union have recently prohibited boys under 
sixteen or seventeen from smoking at all. 



CHAPTER XI 

Diet in Relation to Disease — Medical and 
Statistical Evidence on Cancer 

The production of disease in general by inappropriate 
diet, or by excess or deficiency, has been touched upon 
in the foregoing chapters. Indigestion, and many of 
the serious troubles consequent upon this : diseases of 
liver and kidney and brain ; gout and many forms of 
rheumatic illness, are stated by the best authorities to 
be caused to a very great extent by food or drink 
wrongly used. 

I intend in this chapter to examine some important 
evidence from many quarters, derived from medical 
observations and from official statistics, which bears 
upon the connection of diet and drink with one of the 
worst of afflictions, which is growing rapidly in nearly all 
countries where diseases are classified and registered. 

In the report for 1902, the Registrar-General of 
England notices the increase of cancer, which has 
continued steadily for many years. " At each of the 
six age-groups of the period under thirty-five years 
[of age], the registered mortality from malignant 
disease is increasing, and that not slowly." The total 
of the deaths due to it in 1902 was 27,872, — that is, 
2384 above the average of the previous ten years' 
corrected average. 



460 STRENGTH AND DIET 

111 men the great majority of cases were in the 
stomach, liver, gall-bhadder, rectum, and tongue, 
mouth, lip, and jaw ; in women the cases were mostly 
in the uterus, breast, liver, gall-bladder, and stomach. 
The cases of the lip being attacked in women were 10 
against 191 in men, of the tongue 83 against 625, and 
of the throat 63 against 228. 

o 

In a recent learned communication to the Morning 
Post, it is stated that Dr. Bash ford and Dr. Murray, 
members of the Cancer Research Committee, have 
confirmed the discovery made by Professor Farmer, 
Mr. Moore, and Mr. Walker. "The most terrible 
thing about cancer is . . . that we have been ignorant 
of the causes of its birth and its growth. Cancer cells 
behave as if they were the cells of reproductive 
tissue." 

The birth of cancer consists in the aj^plication of 
some kind of irritating stimulus to the ordinary cells. 
This irritation spurs the ordinary cell into a form of 
activity that is false to it. 

" It does appear as if the irritating stimulus which 
2)roduced this result might be of the nature of a 
chemical agency in the blood." 

Cancer has been grafted from one animal to another 
of the same species. 

In an article on " Cancer Mortality," by Dr. Alfred 
Wolff, in the British Medical Journal for 9th July 1904, 
the following statistics of mortality are given : ^ — 



DIET IX RELATION TO DISEASE 461 

England and Wales: Death-rate per 100,000 living. 





Males. 


Females. 




Males. 


Females 


England and Wales 


691 


98-5 


Dorset 


74-9 


100-6 


London 


79-4 


106-5 


Kent. 


78-4 


100-5 


Hereford . 


91-9 


137-7 


Nottingham 


62-6 


100-1 


Cambridge . 


951 


133-0 


Leicester . 


59-6 


98-9 


Huntingdon 


96-4 


130-0 


Lincoln 


76-2 


98-4 


Shropshire . 


63-9 


128-4 


Surrey 


69-5 


970 


North Wales 


98-1 


120-0 


Northumberland 


73-4 


96-4 


Somerset . 


78-5 


115-0 


Eutland . 


126-1 


96-1 


Cumberland 


72-0 


114-4 


Yorkshire (East 






Norfolk 


87-9 


113-2 


Riding). 


70-8 


96-0 


Cornwall . 


69-5 


112-6 


Yorkshire (West 






Devon 


81-8 


1121 


Riding). 


66-3 


94-3 


Ches-hire 


70-1 


112-0 , 


Worcester . 


70-9 


94-1 


Oxford 


100-6 


112-0 


Derby 


51-9 


93-2 


Herts . 


83-2 


112-0 


Essex 


56-6 


90-8 


Berks . 


88-3 


111-8 


Lancashire 


59-3 


90-5 


Hants . 


84-2 


108-8 


Yorkshire (North 






Sussex 


79-4 


107-4 


Riding). 


77-3 


90-4 


AVarwick . 


72-8 


103-7 


Westmorland . 


98-3 


88-6 


Suffolk 


790 


103-1 


Middlesex. 


60-8 


82-8 


Bucks. 


83-8 


101-6 


Durham . 


49-7 


80-4 


Wilts . 


66-4 


101-3 


Stafford . 


48-2 


80-2 


Gloucester . 


83-4 


101-0 


South Wales . 


57-7 


79-8 


Northampton 


73-0 


100-9 . 


Monmouth 


57-6 


78-9 



The districts showing high and low mortality were 
much the same as in the previous year : Cambridge, 
Huntinodon, and North Wales ejave hioh fiorures : 
Monmouth, South Wales, Stafford, and Durham the 
lowest. Eutland had a very high — the highest — rate 
for males. But in 1900 the mortality was low in 
Rutland. Shropshire has a high rate for females, a 
low rate for males. 

In France the mortality was less in 1901 than in 
1900. The rate Avas highest in Paris and the largest 
towns, decreasing regularly in proportion down to the 
smallest towns, from 107 to 63. But in Chefs Lieux 



462 STRENGTH AND DIET 

d'aiToudissement the rate was a little hi2;her than in the 
towns of between 5000 and 10,000. 

The Eure and Loire had the highest mortality, 205, 
for cancer and tumour, the Nord had the lowest, 90, 
and the Oise, Nievre, and Loire Inft^rieure were all 
below 100. 

In towns of Departments the Gironde showed the 
highest, 73, and Finistere the least, 39. 

As in 1900, " there was a compact area of high 
cancer mortality extending from the country in the 
north-east bordering on the Channel, through Paris, 
and along a strip extending west from that city to the 
Bay of Biscay." The greater part of Brittany and the 
south-east reo^ion borderinoj on the Mediterranean were 
low in mortality. 

In Germany, in 1900, the following showed rates 
far above those of the Northern States : — Baden, Bavaria, 
the Saxon kingdom, Wiirtemberg, and Hesse. This 
was the same in 1899. 

From 1892 to 1900, inclusive, the mortality in 
persons over sixty in Germany was as follows : — 
German Empire, 41 6 '3 ; Baden, 661 ; Saxony, 647*6 ; 
Hesse, 624 ; Bavaria, 553'6 ; Alsace-Lorraine, 499"8 ; 
Wiirtemberg, 463 '9 ; Prussia, 331 ; Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, 
256-8. 

Thickly wooded and well watered country has an 
apiJarently excessive mortality. There is an explana- 
nation for this. In England the distribution of cancer 
is very uneven, and varies from year to year. 

A very low rate has prevailed along the shores of 
the Mediterranean ; at Marseilles it was only 52. 

In the Special Keport of the Registrar-General for 
Ireland on Cancer, it appears that — 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 4G3 



In 



lu 



In 



In 

















Per 10,000. 


Ireland, in 


1864 the rate of 


mo 


■tali 


ty from 


cancer was 


2-7 


5) 


1871 














3-2 


■)> 


1881 






, 








3-7 


)1 
)) 


1891 
1901 














4-6 
6-5 


England, in 
J' 


186-1 
1871 
1881 














3-9 

4-2 
5-2 




1891 
1900 














6-9 
8-3 


Scotland, in 


1864 
1871 
1881 














4-3 

4-4 
5-2 


J5 


1891 














6-8 


5> 


1900 














8-61 


Austria the change from 1891 to 190( 


) was from 


5-4 to 


7-0 


Bavaria 


5) 


It 




55 


51 




8-9 to 


9-9 


Holland 


» 


II 




55 


55 




7-9 to 


9-3 


Hungary 


., 


1897 


to 190{ 


3 55 




2-6 to 


3-3 


Italy 


)) 


1891 


to 


190( 


) 5, 




4-3 to 


5-2 


Norway 


)) 


)) 




,, 


•5 




6-1 to 


9-2 


Prussia 


'> 


)i 




55 


55 




4-5 to 


61 


Connecticut 


>' 


• > 




55 


55 




5-2 to 


6-6 


Maine 


>i 


)) 




5' 


5) 


(1892) 6-1 to 


7-6 


Massachusetts „ 


55 




,, 


■5 




6-1 to 


7-1 


New Hamps 


hire 


55 




,, 


55 




5-6 to 


71 


Rhode Island „ 


,, 




55 


55 




51 to 


6-8 


Amsterdam 




55 




55 


5" 




8-8 to 


9-8 


Boston 




55 




!5 


55 




6-9 to 


8-1 


Breslau 




55 




5J 


55 




8-6 to 10-8 


Brussels 




!5 




55 


5> 




3-4 to 


4-4 


Buda-Pesth 




!5 




51 


55 




8-7 to 


7-2 


Copenhagen 




55 




,, 


55 




13 6 to 13 9 


Denmark, otlier towns 


55 




55 


■5 




11-6 to 11-1 


Dresden 


;> 


55 




55 


55 




101 to 10-6 


Dresden, wi 


th cases fro 


tn outside 


55 


,, 




12 3 to 12-5 


Munich 


ii 


55 




,, 


55 




12-7 to 11-9 - 


New York 


ii 


55 




55 


55 




5-4 to 


6-7 


Paris 


■>i 


55 




•5 


55 




10-0 to 10-5 


Philadelphia 


55 




55 


55 




5-3 to 


5-8 


Prague and 


suburbs 


55 




55 


55 




9-0 to 


8-5 


St. Petersburg „ 


55 




55 


55 




9-9 to 10(1899) 


San Francisco „ 


55 




15 


r5 




6-0 to 10-9 


Stuttgart 


)i 


55 




55 


55 




7-6 to 12-7 


Vienna 


)> 


55 




55 


55 




10-4 to 12-1 



464 STRENGTH AND DIET 

lu Ireland, both males and females were attacked 
by cancer chiefly in the stomach. 

Farmers and labourers were very largely the 
victims, but no percentage of deaths in occupations is 
given. 

Kerry had the lowest rate, 2*63, then Mayo 3 '64, 
Clare 3-83, Sligo 3-9, Leitrim 4-13, Galway 4-19. 

The West of Ireland generally had a low rate. 

In four counties the rate was between 7 and 8, 
Meath with 7 '06, Monaghan with 7*3, Tyrone with 
7 "33, Carlow with 7 '42. In two, between 8 and 9 : 
Londonderry 8*24, Dublin 8 "48. And the highest rate 
was in Armagh with 10 "47. 

The lowest rate in any district of iVrmagh was in 
Tartaraghan, 2*5, next in Lurgan 5 '6, and next in 
Poyntz Pass 6*8. The highest, in Crossmagien, 17 '3, 
next Loughgall 17, then Tynan 12 "8, then Mountnorris 
12-7, and then Ballybot 12-2. 

In the " Armagh" district of the Armagh Union, 
cancer is reported by the registrar there to be most 
common among farmers and labourers. 

The registrar of the Loughgall district reports tea- 
drinking as conducing to the disease by disordering the 
stomach. 

The registrar of the Markethill district suggests, 
as to the cause of rectal cancer, the use of flour bread 
and consequent continual constipation, in the place 
of bread and porridge made from wheaten meal and 
oatmeal. 

The registrar of Crossmagien attributes the preval- 
ence of the attacks of cancer in the stomach, which is 
the most common, to the character of the food used. 

The registrar of Newtowuhamilton attributes to 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 465 

tea, alcohol, or salted animal food the injuries to 
digestion which possibly predispose to cancer. Hardly 
any fresh animal food is used. 

At Portadown, the too plentiful use of fatty animal 
food is suspected. 

At Forhill, indigestible food, badly baked bread, 
and strong tea drinking. At Meigh, improper food 
causing chronic dyspepsia. At Mountnorris, improper 
food and tea and alcohol. 

A similar report comes from Mullaghglass, where 
it is remarked that irritation is caused by the great 
quantity of tea drunk, sometimes seven times a day. 

Many registrars remark on the frequency of cancer 
on the lip from smoking clay pipes excessively, and 
there seems to be no doubt that this is a common 
proximate cause. But the majority of cases of cancer 
are in the stomach or neighbouring parts. 

One practitioner mentions that in three cases 
during three months, each sufferer had lived in penury 
on dry bread and tea as the chief articles of diet. 

The followino- table shows the increases in several 

o 

countries during ten years : — 





1891. 


1894. 


1897. 


1900. 


Austria 


5-4 


6 


6-7 


7 


Holland 


7-9 


8-4 


9 


9-3 


Norway 


61 


7-1 


8-5 


9-2 


Prussia 


4-5 


5-3 


5-7 


6-1 


Connecticut 


5-2 


51 


5-8 


6-6 


Massachusetts 


61 


6-4 


6-7 


7-1 


Rhode Island 


51 


5-7 


6-3 


6-8 



The most fatal period of age is from sixty five in 
women and seventy-five in men. It is supposed that 
the chief causes include — irritation of the lips from clay 
pipes ; after-effects of wounds ; long contact with a 
30 



466 STRENGTH AND DIET 

cancer patient ; chronic dyspepsia and irregular meals ; 
impure water ; inherited predisposition ; neat alcohol ; 
use of pipes used by sufferers ; bad conditions of life 
and food and residence. A causal relationship has been 
noticed to idiocy, epilepsy, lunacy, and tuberculosis. 

Further observations on cancer in Ireland are 
contributed by Dr. Hill Climbo.^ 

During the last forty years the death-rate from 
cancerous diseases in all European countries and in the 
United States of America has steadily risen, being 
highest in Bavaria, Denmark, Holland, and Norway. 

In Ireland the deaths of males were 45, and of 
females 55 Der cent. Of 1262 deaths of males, in 509 
cases the victims were farmers, in 5 sons of farmers, in 
302 labourers; these make together 816 cases. Of the 
remaining third, three-fourths were men in the same 
class of life. 

Of the total number of deaths from cancer, 2893, 
the digestive system gave 1583 cases — 849 of males, 
734 of females. Even in several other organs, the 
parts affected primarily are those engaged in nutrition. 
Hence there is a strong presumption that it is the food 
which is at fault. 

Sites of wounds and injuries are specially liable. 

Medical opinion in Ireland considered the local 
causes to be referable to the climate, dampness, proxi- 
mity to woods and rivers, geological formation, subsoil 
contamination, and insanitary environment. The 
special causes are all dietetic. 

Dr. Climbo thinks that the previous low mortality 
of Ireland, and the increase during the last forty years, 
point to poverty as a condition of immunity and the 
habits consequent on wealth as a cause of cancer. 



I 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 467 

There is no new factor other than the economic one. 
" Up to the time of the famine, the people lived upon 
what the country produced — oatmeal porridge, potatoes, 
eggs, and milk, with fish and home-cured bacon occa- 
sionally. Now cheap American bacon and flour pancakes 
cooked in bacon fat, Indian meal porridge, sweetened 
with chemically coloured beet-sugars, and boiled tea are 
the staple food commodities." Porter- and tea-drinking 
have been substituted for whisky. The consumption 
of tea is enormous. A labourer, with his wife, buys 
every week half a pound of tea, at Is. 4d. the pound ; 
his wages are only 7s. 6d. a week. Very little other 
flesh than American cheap bacon is eaten by the 
peasants. It is only half-cooked. It is said that 
American pigs are fed on the entrails of poultry, and 
on the oflfal of cattle, and on diseased carcases. "It is 
unwholesome animal food wdiich I believe to be the 
direct cause of cancer." 

According to Mr. T. W. Russell, " the baker's cart 
now goes everywhere." " American flour and bacon 
are largely used by the poor." '^ 

From Clemow's Geography of Disease I obtain 
the following particulars : — 

The highest cancer death-rates were in Hunting- 
don, Cambridge, Sussex, and North Wales ; the 
lowest in Monmouthshire and Derbyshire. The dis- 
tricts of maximum prevalence were Stamford, Bourn, 
Spalding, Holbeach, Oundle, and Peterborough. 

In Scotland the deaths from cancer were, in 1881-90, 
580 per million; in 1895 and 1896, 730; in 1897, 
770. 

In Ireland, in 1871-80, 340; in 1881-90, 410; in 
1900, 600. 



468 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In France, in 1887-90, 840 ; in 1898, 1050, for 
urban districts. 

In Holland, in 1889, 750 ; in 1898, 930. 

In Germany, regularly increasing. 

Also in Denmark, where, in the urban population, 
it has risen from 837 to 1054. 

In Norway and Sweden there is a similar increase. 
The rate in Sweden in 1886-87 was 950. Also in 
Russia there is an increase. 

In Switzerland there is a large mortality ; in Greece 
it is common [in towns ?]. 

In Italy the rate was 496 in 1896. In Iceland it 
is very rare, also in Persia, where the Russians and 
Armenians are most attacked. 

In the Caucasus it is not uncommon. In India it 
is not frequent. In Syria and the Arabian plateaux, 
very rare or unknown. In Kashmir, rather rare. 

In the Faroe Islands, unknown. 

In Ceylon the rate was 129 in 1891, 235 in 1893, 
177 in 1897. 

In Siam and the Laos country, rare ; in the East 
India Islands and Borneo, rare ; in Java, rare, but 
occurs among the hill tribes. 

In China, cancer is much rarer than in Europe, 
but there are immense tumours. In Corea, uncommon. 
In New Guinea, very rare. Only one case was seen 
among the natives, and this person had lived like a 
European. 

In Australia— Queensland, 1893, 284; 1894, 358; 
1895, 417; 1896, 392; 1897, 391: Tasmania, in 
1894, 500 ; 1895, 470 ; 1896, 580 ; 1897, 480. 

In South Australia, 1889, 427; 1898, 507; 1900, 
590. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 469 

In New Zealand, 1889, 422 ; 1899, 633. 

In New Caledonia, very rare. 

In Africa, rare. Among primitive black races, very 
rare or unknown. 

In Arabia, rare. In Abyssinia, rather frequent ; 
and in Algeria, frequent. 

At Lagos, in fourteen years, Dr. Johnston only 
saw five cases, and in each of these the native had 
lived like Europeans. 

In the United States it is very common and rapidly 
increasing. In Massachusetts, from 195 in 1856 to 
700 in 1895. San Francisco, 165 in 1866 to 1036 in 
1898. In Boston it trebled from 1863 to 1887. In 
seven cities it nearly doubled in the years 1870 to 
1898 (354 to 664). The Southern States are less 
affected. In Guiana, not very common. 

Throughout Africa, cancer is much less frequent 
than in Europe. Black races suffer remarkably little 
from malionant orowths. 

In Abyssinia and Algeria, cancer is rather frequent, 
both among natives and Europeans. 

In West Africa there are few cases, on the Gold 
Coast few, and in ^lashonaland and Bechuanaland few. 

In Nova Scotia, cancer is frequent. 

Cancer is probably not common in the West 
Indies. 

In Central America, on the whole, comparatively 
rare. 

Rare in Guatemala, 42 per million. 

In Brazil, common in some provinces, at Buenos 
Ayres, particularly high. In Uruguay, frequent, 447 jDer 
million in 1897. 

In Siam and the Malay Peninsula, rare. 



470 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In Borueo, uncommon. In Servia the rate was (S7. 
In Turkey, rather uncommon. In Persia, very rare. In 
Russia the rate is risinQ^. 

The principal increases in [then] recent years were 
in the following countries : — England, Scotland, Ireland, 
France, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and 
perhaps Russia ; in Australia, New Zealand, parts of 
Canada and of the United States. 

Mr. C. P. Newcombe contributes the following 
observations in his small book on Cancer : — 

The cancer deaths or malignant disease deaths in 
England and Wales were, in 1900, 26,721 ; in 1901, 
27,487 (10,891 males, 16,596 females). 

Compared with the decennial average rate of the 
last ten years the increase in males is 16 per cent., in 
females 9 per cent. 

There is rather a large difference between counties. 
Thus the mortality in Nairnshire has been 9 '73, in 
Clackmannan 5*41. 

Dr. James Braithwaite, of Leeds, asserts that there 
are four factors which originate the disease — excess of 
salt, excessive feeding, particularly on flesh, senility, 
and local irritation. 

In the province of Salzburg is found the chief 
mortality from cancer in Austro-Hungary. 

The cancer deaths have doubled in England and 
Wales since 1879. Mortality— 1881, 13,542; 1901, 
27,487. 

Amboise Pare wrote (1510-1590): "A cancer is 
made more fierce and raging by meats inflaming the 
blood, by perturbations of mind," etc. 

Dr. W. C. Lawson, in the British Medical Journal, 
lays stress on " unduly high - blood pressure among 



DIET IX RELATION TO DISEASE 471 

civilised communities living hurried lives and addicted 
to stimulants and tlesh-eating." 

Dr. Douglas Macdonald of Bettwsycoed : " I have 
remarked in many cases of cancer an excess of uric 
acid and many cases of acid dyspepsia preceding cancer 
of the stomach." " The Welsh peasantry live chiefly 
on tea and bacon. . . . Tea is, I think, a prolific cause 
of uric acid. The consumption of tea and meat has 
incTediied jjaH passu with the increase of cancer." 

Dr. Haig has long thought that carcinoma may 
have its way paved for it by the chronic and recurrent 
irritation produced by urates in the system. 

Sir William Banks charges the main evil upon 
what is called " o-ood feedings." The most numerous 
victims of cancer are well-nourished persons, " high 
livers." Sir James Paget's treatment of cancer first 
gave him the idea of excessive animal food, etc., being 
a cause. " Our better classes eat infinitely too much." 

The whole process, in Mr. Newcombe's opinion, of 
carrying animals across the sea, the slow and intensely 
cruel method of slaughter, all tend to vitiate and turn 
to poison the blood of the terrified victim. 

Dr. W. R. Williams stated in the Bmtish Medical 
Jow^nal oi 20th September 1902, that he ascertained 
from Dr. Engel of Cairo, then in charge of the 
Egyptian vital statistics, that of 19,529 deaths among 
natives in Cairo in 1891, only 19 were returned as 
due to cancer, or 1 in 1028. In England during the 
same year the deaths were 1 in 39. Of 12,950 
patients in the Kasr-el-Aini Hospital during 1889-91, 
only 77, or 0*6 per cent., were affected with cancer. In 
London general hospitals during the same period, the 
proportion of cases was 3 '5. 



472 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Cancer is very rare in Tunis, Algeria, and Morocco, 
and on the Spanish Mediterranean littoral, very rare 
In Sardinia the rate for 1889 was 17 per 10,000 
living, in Calabria 2 '4, in Sicily 2*8 ; in Corsica, about 
the same. 

The conditions unfavourable to cancer, in Dr. 
Williams' opinion, are extreme frugality, little flesh 
food, and open-air life. 

The negroes of North America had little cancer 
while they lived frugally and worked' hard ; now, 
with altered habits, they are much more subject to it. 

In Davidson's Pathological Dictionary it is stated : 
Cancer is rare in Lower Bengal, not common in the 
Deccan tableland. In Hyderabad, in 1886, out of 
2637 operations in hospital only 2 were for cancer. 

In Bombay, in 1875 the deaths from cancer were 
1 in 10,000 against 280 in 10,000 in England. The 
Mahometans in India eat flesh, but much less than 
Europeans. 

In Persia, cancer is rare, and in Central and East 
Africa, very rare. In Jamaica, not common ; death- 
rate 2-19 per 10,000, one-fifth that of England. In 
Mauritius, very rare ; Turkey, very rare ; Samoa, rare 
— 1 to 8750, as against 1 to every 1306 in England. 
In Ireland, in those parts where the food is buttermilk, 
potatoes, and Indian meal, the rate from cancer is one- 
quarter that of the richer Armagh. 

Dr. John Bell, about a hundred years ago a pro- 
fessor in London, wrote that a careful adherence to a 
vegetarian dietary tended to jDrevent cancer. 

Professor Traill, U.S., wrote that "the hunger cure 
is an indispensable auxiliary, or, perhaps, the leading 
remedial measure." 



DIET IN KELATION TO DISEASE 473 

Sir James Paget advised a patient " to try and 
starve herself." 

Dr. George Black, of Torquay, considers a vitiated 
state of the blood as a cause, and most strongly recom- 
mends a diet of fruit, grains, nuts, and vegetables. " I 
cannot express the gratitude I feel, nor the hope that 
has been begotten in me, from what I have myself seen 
by the adoption of such a regimen, and I am only 
expressing a fact when I say that on such a diet I have 
obtained results the like of which I had not only never 
experienced in twenty-four years of practice, but never 
even dreamed to be possible." 

The dietary recommended by Mr. Newcombe, as 
drawn up for him by a physician of high re^iute, is : 
porridge, various ; fresh and stewed fruits ; golden 
syrup, honey, fruit juice; granose flakes, biscuits; 
salad, lettuce, tomatoes, cress, with salad oil and lemon 
juice ; vegetable soups, with rice ; vermicelli, tapioca, 
lentils, and pea flour; vegetables "conservatively" 
cooked ; vegetable pie, almond and walnut butter, 
unleavened bread. 

Avoidance of tea, coffee, cocoa, alcoholic licjuors, 
all flesh foods and substances, such as beef- tea, lard, 
dripping, suet, etc. ; and two meals only in the day 
are recommended. 

:\Ir. Frank C. Madden, F.R.C.S., Professor of 
Surgery, Egyptian Government School of Tropical 
Medicine, Cairo, referring to Dr. Dalgetty's experience 
of the extraordinary infrec[uency of cancer among the 
Hindus and Mussulmans in Adampore,^ wrote to the 
British Medical Journal of August 3, 1900: "I 
believe I am right in saying that the consensus of 
o[»inion among medical men in Egypt is that cancer — 



474 STRENGTH AND DIET 

more correctly speaking, carcinoma — is never found 
amongst the black races of that country. These include 
the Berberis and the Soudanese, who are all Mussulmans, 
and who live almost entirely upon a vegetarian diet. 
Cancer is fairly common, however, amongst the Arabs 
and Copts, who form the bulk of the population of 
the native Egyptians, and who, strangely enough, live 
and eat much like Europeans." 

Dr. Lucas Champonniere, appointed by the French 
Academy of Medicine to investigate the causes of 
typhlitis (or appendicitis), recently reported that in his 
opinion it is largely due to flesh-eating. Dr. Perks, in 
the course of many years' experience as chief medical 
officer of large hospitals, did not, so far as he 
remembers, have any instance of appendicitis in a 
non-flesh-eater, and the experience of a medical friend 
during twenty years' practice among abstainers from 
flesh is similar. 

In his book on the Diseases of Warm Countries, 
Dr. Scheube states that gout is rare or absent in the 
tropics. In India it is only observed in Mahometans 
and Europeans, not in Hindoos. In Japan, Dr. Scheube 
says, " I never observed a case." This immunity is not 
due to moderate fare alone. In Brazil " the people live 
luxuriously, and gout is extremely rare." 

" Cancer is rare in the tropics." It is met with, 
but far more rarely than in Europe, in the Antilles 
(Martinique, Barbadoes) and in India. " In China it 
is no rarity," and " the same may be said of Japan." 
The observer had personally operated on many in that 
country, chiefly for cancer on the female mammnry 
gland. [These cases would probably be among the 
rich or well-to-do classes.] 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 475 

Mental diseases are more frequent in Europeans in 
the tropics than at home. 

Sir W. Macgregor, K.C.M.G., C.B., M.D., D.Sc., 
LL.D., states in his article,^ "Some Problems of 
Tropical Medicine " : "I do not remember ever to have 
operated on a Polynesian or Melanesian for cancer, 
though I had to do so several times on Europeans in 
Fiji. For nine and a half years I never saw a case of 
cancer in British New Guinea, but at the end of that 
time there occurred an example of encephaloid cancer 
of the tibia in the person of a Papuan that had for 
seven or eight years lived practically a European life, 
eating tinned Australian meat daily. . . . The Poly- 
nesian and the Papuan are practically vegetable 
feeders." 

The following summary of the increase of cancer in 
some foreign countries was given in 1903 :— 



Couutrv, 


State, or gj 


. 1 

CM ' 

05 . 


(35 Oi 


to 

03 


CD 
05 




00 
05 


05 
03 


o 


Ci 


ty- 2 


00 ■ 
I— 1 1 


CO 00 

r— ( r-H 


00 


00 
1— 1 


00 

r-H 


00 
1— 1 


00 


r— 1 

7-0 


Austria 


. 5-4 


5-7 


5-9 6-0 


6-3 


6-5 


6-7 


6-9 


6-9 


Bavaria 


. 8-9 


8-5 


9-0 9-3 


9-5 


9-5 


9-7 


9-7 


10-2 


9-9 


Holland 


. 7-9 


8-0 


8-1 8-1 


8-4 


8-8 


9-0 


9-3 


9-6 


9-3 


Hungary 


. 







... 


2-6 


2-6 


2-5 


33 


Italy 


. 4-3 


4-3 


4-3 4-5 4-8 


4-9 


5-0 


5-1 


5-2 


5-2 


Norway 


. 61 


6-3 


7-0 71 71 


8-1 


8-5 


8-4 


8-9 


9-2 


Prussia 


. 4-5 


5-0 


51 5-3 5-3 


5-5 


5-7 


5-7 


6-1 


61 



In Enoland and Wales the laro-est increase in 
cancer mortality, according to age, has been in the 
third quinquenniad in males and in the first among 
females (0 to 5 years old). 

The Official Report on Vital Statistics for New 
South Wales, 1899, gives the following figures : — 



476 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Cancer death-rate per 10,000 of population — 

1857-59. 1860-64. 1865-69. 1870-74. 1875-79. 

1-20 2-17 2-36 2-42 2-57 

1880-84. 1885-89. 1890-94. 1895-99. 

2-68 3-53 4-27 5-08 

Phthisis and nervous diseases have diminished. 

The proportion of insane has increased since 1890, 
although since 1893 the influx of insane patients was 
stopped. Suicide has steadily increased. 

In 1899 the cancer rate was o'66, the highest on 
record. The proportion since 1856 has more than 
trebled. 

In the Registrar-General's report for Queensland for 
1902, published in 1903, it is stated that " Cancer, 
fourth in order of fatality, contributed a greater num- 
ber of deaths than ever before. . . . The number was 
4 "59 of all deaths, and 0*55 per 1000 of the mean 
population." 

In the Statistics of New Zealand, 1901, given in 
the Official Report, 1902, appears the following : — 





CO 

I— 1 


I— 1 


00 
I— 1 


OS 

00 


CD 

00 


Oi 

CO 


00 
00 


Oi 

OS 
00 


8 

o 

I— 1 


o 

OS 

I— 1 


Cancer deaths . 


307 


332 


408 


383 


389 


395 


471 


468 


430 


515 


Pneumonia 


245 


350 


322 


371 


285 


355 


330 


389 


314 


438 


Diseases of Urinary 
System 


172 


197 


210 


231 


219 


237 


274 


255 


287 


284 


Percentage Cancer . 


4-75 


4-91 


5-9 


5-58 


6-05 


5-99 


6-5 


6-09 


6-97 


6-76 



Dr. G. Cooke Adams, C.M.Q. Univ. Cam., L.R.C.P., 
L.R.C.S. Edin., contributed an article on "Cancer in 
Australia" to the Lancet of 13th February 1904. 

The following table shows the cancer death-rate 



DIET IN RET.ATrON TO DISEASE 477 



per 100,000 living among the Australian-born, the 
British-born, and the people of all nationalities : — 



Year. 


Total Population. 


Australian. 


British. 


All Nationalities. 


1851 


403,889 




28 (1856) 


14 


1861 


1,153,973 


5-6 


30-5 


19 


1871 


1,668,377 


9-7 


56-7 


25 


1881 


2,252,617 


16-8 


72-9 


32-6 


1891 


3,183,237 


19-8 


119-8 


45-9 


1901 


3,771,715 


22-6 


203-1 


57-3 



The corrected cancer death-rate for 1900, for persons 
above thirty-five, per 100,000 living above thirty-five, 
was, for the Commonwealth, 195'3 ; for metropolitan 
districts, 326; for country districts, 134; for native- 
born, 58 '2 ; for British- and foreign-born, 137'1. 

The proportion to 100 deaths from all causes, above 
thirty-five, was, for natives, 6'3 ; for British, 12*5; 
for foreign, ITS, to each 100 born of each class. The 
proportion for foreign-born Germans was 11 ; French, 
16'6 ; Austrians, 16 ; Russians, 5*4 ; Swedes and 
Norwegians, 15"6 ; Chinese, 5 ; Italians, 5 ; United 
States people, 2. 

Victoria shows the highest rate of all the States, 
West Austrnlia the lowest ; its population is young. 

The death-rate in various countries for 1900, per 
100,000 living, was— 

Italy .... 32-1 
Switzerland . . .132 
Holland . . . . 91-3 
Norway .... 84-5 
United States (ref^istration 

area) .... 60 

In France tumours were counted in. 

The aboriginals of Australia are practically immune. 



In England and "Wales 


82-8 


Scotland . 


81 


Ireland 


61 


France (towns) . 


104 


German Empire 


72-7 


Austria 


70-4 



478 STRENGTH AND DIET 

A great part in cancer production is played by syphilis. 
In India, cancer is prevalent among the kangri-wearers, 
due to the constant irritation of the kangri on the skin. 

Among natives of India, cancer of the lip is un- 
common, owing to their not smoking pipes, but of the 
mouth very common, owing to their habit of chewing 
irritating substances, such as betel leaf, tobacco, etc. 
" Next to hereditary causes, prolonged local irritation 
is the principal exciting factor in the causation of 
malionant disease." Neglected and untreated illness, 
such as syphilis, rheumatism, alcoholism, gout, tubercle, 
etc., and sugar and alcohol play a large part. More 
beer is drunk in metropolitan than in country parts of 
Australia, and more by British- and foreign-born than 
by native-born. In France the beer-drinking have a 
much higher mortality from cancer than the wine- 
drinking populations. 

Dr. Adams believes that cancer is due to " malignic 
acid," depending on the condition of the parents at the 
time the diathesis is transmitted. Burns, scalds, 
lesions, irritating causes of all kinds, start the tumour ; 
the malionic acid converts the weakened into malio-naut 
tissue. 

The average cancer mortality in North Wales has 
doubled in the last thirty years. There has also been 
increased mortality from digestive disorders, due pro- 
bably " to a change for the worse in the dietetic habits 
of the people." Formerly oatmeal was a staple, now 
this is replaced by strong tea, white bread and 
butter, etc.^ 

^Ir. Els worth Olsen's advice for preventing and 
curing anaemia would probably, from a comparison of 
evidence, contribute to the prevention of cancer : out- 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 479 

door exercise, pure air, water, sunshine, wholesome 
nourishing food, such as fruit, bread, grains, nuts, milk, 
and eggs. Alcoholics, tea, coffee, condiments, pepper, 
pickles, sweets, pastries, rich and greasy foods, must be 
avoided. 

The Philosophical Magazine, in an article referred 
to by the Lancet,^ notices the extraordinary number of 
cases of cancer and scirrhous complaints in the neigh- 
bourhood of Tunbridge Wells, which has engaged the 
attention of medical men there. " A similar remark 
appears to apply to other counties, where the poor feed 
much on dried hog's-flesh and can get but little vege- 
table food." 

The medical officer of health for Spalding, Lincoln- 
shire, reported that " cancer is steadily increasing from 
year to year." During the twelve months ending in 
March 1904, 11 '65 of all the deaths in the district 
were from cancer. 

Cancer has been attributed by two French observers 
largely to the use of pork. They state that orthodox 
Jews who adhere strictly to the laws of Moses, are 
rarely the subjects of cancer. A physician who 
practised many years among the Arabs, who use no 
pork and little flesh, had no cases of cancer. A similar 
report is given of the Indians of Old Mexico.^ 

In the same magazine 1 find that Dr. M'Gugan, of 
Kalamazoo Insane Asylum, states that epileptic fits are 
doubled in number when his patients are fed on a flesh 
diet. 

In the first annual report of the Cancer Kesearch 
Fund, London, it is reported that inquiries are being 
made into the alleged absence of cancer in New Guinea, 
and its rarity in the Malay Peninsula. 



480 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In treatino; of " DaiiQ-erous Trades," Mr. Thomas 
Oliver states that glassmakers are subject to cancer, and 
to urinary, digestive, and circulation diseases. These 
are partly produced by the high temperature, lead 
powder, and bad ventilation. 

Lead- workers die at a rate 90 per cent, above that 
of other workers. The rate of cancer mortality for 
chimney-sweeps is 156, compared with 44 for occupied 
males, their intemperance mortality is four and a half 
times the ordinary. Eighteen out of 6 1 cases of cancer 
in sweeps are noted as " sweeps' cancer." There has 
recently been a great abatement of their cancer 
mortality. 

Wool-workers die at the rate of 10 to 22 in excess 
from cancer, nervous, respiratory, and urinary diseases. 
They are not specially intemperate. From digestive 
diseases their mortality is one and a half times the 
ordinary. 

Bookbinders have an excess of cancer, urinary, 
circulatory, and respiratory diseases. Shoemakers have 
a mortality from cancer 14 percent, above the average. 
Cancer and ulcers are frequently found among gardeners 
and others who have to handle soot. Sweeps in foreign 
countries are specially protected, and do not have an 
excess of cancer. Workers in tar and paraffin are 
subject to sweeps' cancer, and workers in anthracene to 
warts. Hard or stone-coal soot, crude paraffin, and 
brown coal-tar seem to have a pernicious effect. Butlin 
concluded that by the application of certain substances 
for years, the skin is prepared for cancer. 

Sir Thornley Stoker, surgeon to the Kichmond 
Hospital, Dublin, states in an article on " Cancer on 
the Lips," that "in almost every case the use of the 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISExVSE 481 

pipe is the exciting cause." Often the pipe is short, 
with a broken end ; sometimes the sharp edges of 
broken or decayed teeth are the exciting cause. Out 
of 350 cases operated on, only three were women, and 
these were assiduous smokers, ^*^ 

Accordino' to Dr. W. Rooer Williams, of the 
Middlesex Cancer Hospital, there is an apparent 
connection between arthritism, that is, rheumatic 
conditions of constitution, and cancer. 

Thus Pierre Buonaparte died of heart disease 
following rheumatic fever ; Napoleon iii. from stone ; 
Jerome and his son Napoleon suffered from diabetes ; 
Napoleon Buonaparte and his father, his brother 
Lucien, and his sisters Caroline and Pauline, all died 
from cancer in the stomach. 

" Cancerous tumours consist almost exclusively of 
proteid or albuminous substances, and it seems not 
unreasonable to suppose that they may be caused by 
excess of these substances in the body." ..." When 
excessive quantities of such highly stimulating forms 
of nutriment are ingested by persons whose cellular 
metabolism is defective, there may be thus excited, in 
those parts of the body where vital processes are most 
active, such excessive and disorderly cellular prolifera- 
tion as may eventuate in cancer." Dr. Williams's 
record of cases in his own practice shows a large 
preponderance of cases of heart disease among parents 
of breast-cancer patients. ^^ 

Dr. Haig has recently given some interesting 
views ^^ of possible causes of a tendency to cancer. 
Lead and lime are found, he says, in many drinking 
and cooking waters, and lead, mercury, copper, zinc, 
and tin in many preserved foods. Zinc, copper, gold, 
31 



482 STRENGTH AND DIET 

and silver are used in medicine, also lead and iron. 
In constitutions "full of uric acid" these substances 
produce much local precipitation. "It is in the well- 
fed and highly nourished that the greatest liability to 
cancer is found." A very high cancer mortality was 
found in a district where the drinking water was very 
hard, and where hio-h feedinsj with rich food and wine 
was habitual. ^^ 

Dr. Haig sums up : (1) Cancer tends to affect 
seats of local irritation or ulceration. (2) Uric acid 
is responsible for more widespread and chronic local 
irritation in all the tissues of the body than any other 
known substance. (3) Insurance statistics seem to 
show that cancer is increasing side by side with many 
other diseases which are no doubt due to uric acid. 
... (4) Countries where the diet is to a great extent 
uric-acid-free suflfer but little from cancer. . . . 

Dr. Yerneuil of Paris has stated that his observa- 
tions convinced him that the regular use of flesh meat 
caused the disease.^* 

Dr. Keith has stated that high living, wine, and 
animal foods " aggravate in an extraordinary manner 
all the symptoms arising from this terrible disease," 
and that he knows of no class of cases where 
the benefit that follows a change of living is so 
marked. ^^ 

Sir W. Banks, a cancer specialist of thirty years' 
practice, asserted that the most numerous victims are 
well-nourished i3ersons with plenty of beef and fat 
about them, and often a fine healthy colour.^^ 

In England, in 1901, the deaths from cancer in 
the tongue, mouth, pharynx, larynx, and trachea 
were — of men, 1252 ; of women, 273. There can be 



I 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 483 

no doubt that the irritation of smoke and pipe stems 
is here a main cause. '^ 

Dr. Kellogg says : " That the free use of flesh food 
is a predisposing cause of cancer cannot be doubted. 
The natural and non-flesh dietary is one of the most 
effective measures that can be adopted for its pre- 
vention and cure." ^^ 

Dr. Rabagliati : *' My view as to the causation of 
cancer is that from first to last it is a disease of over- 
feeding." A very large amount of disease in general 
is due to mal-assimilation, generally from excess of 
food. Women have cancer in a larger j^roportion 
than men ; one reason is, that they so frequently 
indulge in small extra meals, often eating five or six 
instead of three times a day. All classes of people 
indulge in more meals than their predecessors, and 
are therefore suff'erino- from more colds and more 
cancer. Bread, sweets, puddings, cakes, may be more 
harmful than flesh thus indulo-ed in. School children 
should have only three, or, still better, two meals a 
day, with nothing between. After fifty-five years of 
age, one meal a day should be taken, up to seventy- 
fiv^e. A yearly fast, for say six weeks, is of great 
value. 

Dr. J. E. Gemmell, President of the North of 
England Gynaecological Society, in remarks upon Dr. 
Rabagiiati's contribution, said that from his own obser- 
vations, well-nourished, well-living persons were more 
attacked by malignant disease than those who were 
not so well nourished, and that such persons more 
rapidly succumbed to the disease. ^^ 

Dr. Rabagliati, in a private letter,^' affirms that 
" wrong feeding is far and away the commonest cause 



484 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of illness. It is not poverty that is threatening to 
ruin England, but wealth. It is not too little 
food — it is too much. ..." There is too little peace 
and too much racket. It is these things which have 
destroyed all civilisations. 

In support of Dr. Rabagliati's contention, above 
summarised, many striking cases and " many closely 
reasoned arguments were adduced." 

The Distribution of Cancer in Relation to Food and 

Drink. 

In recent years the rate of prevalence of cancer 
has risen steadily and fast in most countries for 
which statistics are available. For comparison of the 
rates with the nature and amount of certain kinds 
of food and drink, the earlier years of the present 
generation are more valuable than the later, because 
the differences in diet have decreased with the increase 
of trade and with the sf)read of habits of life from 
one country to another ; the effect of previous 
differences consequently becomes less distinct than 
formerly. 

In 1850-59 the rate, according to Hirsch, was for 
England 3 "3, for London 4 '5. 

Recent statistics have shown the following counties 
of England to have a minimum (or low) and a maximum 
(or high) rate of cancer mortality : — 

Low — Men. Staffordshire, Durham, Derbyshire, 
Leicestershire, South Wales, Monmouthshire, 
Essex, Lancashire, Middlesex. 
Women. Monmouthshire, South Wales, Stafford- 
shire, Durham, Middlesex, Westmoreland. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 485 

High — Men. Oxfordshire, Rutland, North Wales, 
Huntingdon, Westmoreland, Herefordshire. 
Women. Hereford, Cambridgeshire, Hunting- 
don, Shropshire, North Wales, Somerset, 
Cumberland, Norfolk. 

Sussex was included by Dr. Clemow in his 
Geography of Disease as a county having a very 
high rate of cancer about ten years ago. 

The districts of Euoiand with hiohest rates 
recently, have been Stamford, Bourn, Spalding, 
Holbeach, Oundle, and Peterborough. Tunbridge 
Wells has been noted for a very high mortality, 
also the Thames valley. 

In Scotland, Nairnshire has had the highest, 
Clackmannan the lowest. 

I do not see that much is to be inferred from 
these statistics for parts of Great Britain, except that 
cancer is more common in the rich and " residential " 
districts ; the remarkably low rate of the mining^ and 
industrial counties may probably be explained by the 
larger relative number of young people among the 
inhabitants and the smaller number of rich. 

But we may observe that the general increase in 
England has accompanied the general increase of 
income and wages, and of the consumption of luxuries, 
such as animal flesh, pastry, potted meats, beer, coffee, 
tea, and tobacco. 

The orrowth of cancer in Ireland has been made 

o 

the subject of a Special Report by the Irish Registrar- 
General, containing; much valuable information. From 
this it appears — (l) that the increase has been very 
rapid in recent years ; (2) that the lowest rates were in 



486 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Kerry, Mayo, Clare, Sligo, Leitrim, and Galway 
counties ; the highest in Armagh, Dublin, London- 
derry, Carlow, Tyrone, Monaghan, and Meath counties ; 
(3) that the farmers and labourers were victims in a 
very large number of cases ; (4) that about two-thirds 
of the cases were in the organs of nutrition or 
connected parts ; (5) that in a large number of cases of 
cancer of the lip or mouth, the disease was apparently 
produced by the irritation of a clay pipe. 

There seems to be reason to attribute the rapid 
increase of cancer in Ireland to the rapid increase in 
the use of luxuries to which the inhabitants were 
mostly unaccustomed, or in which they were sparing, 
and these luxuries have been chiefly the following : — 
flesh, including potted meats, pork, etc., beer, tobacco, 
tea, and coffee. The consumption of tea and coffee 
increased more than in other parts of the kingdom. 
The number of barrels of beer used grew, in a 
diminishing population, from 2,633,027 in 1893-4 
to 3,358,152 in 1903-4. 

The preponderance of cancer cases in the wealthier 
districts is exceedingly well marked, and I believe 
a similar preponderance would be found in other 
countries even during the generation which first largely 
uses the above-named luxuries. But in England such 
luxuries as beer and tea, each containing minute 
quantities of a special poison, are now at least as 
largely consumed by the families of the poorer classes 
as by the rich. And in Ireland, Scotland, and parts 
of England, tea is infused in a more dangerous form — 
that is, with a much larger proportion of poison and 
tannin — among labourers, shepherds, mechanics, and 
factory women than among the highly educated. 



DIET TX KELATIOX TO DISEASE 487 

Medical evidence has been adduced in Chapter X. 
and elsewhere concerning the extremely pernicious 
effect of habitually used tea and coffee in excessive 
doses. Xansen and other good observers have noted 
their sad effect on civilised and uncivilised races. 

In Fixince the lowest rates of cancer mortality 
were recorded in the Department du Xord, in Oise, 
Xievre, Loire Inferieure, most of Brittany, Finistere 
(in the towns), the south-east, bordering the Mediter- 
ranean, and Marseilles, wuth a rate of 52 against 105 
in the Eure and Loire. 

The highest rates were in Paris and large towns, 
Eure and Loire, Gironde in towns, and an area 
extending in a strip from the Xorth Sea through 
Paris to the Bay of Biscay. 

The fare of the large towns and of the richer 
districts includes abundant flesh, wine, spirits or beer, 
coffee, licjueurs, and tobacco. The fare of Brittany, 
Finistere, and South -East France, including Marseilles, 
was more frugal, with much less flesh and coffee. 

The fare of Brest was — bread, butter, bacon, coffee, 
and soup ; and of towns in Finistere generally — bread, 
potatoes, water, wine, spirits, fish, vegetables, etc. 
In most of Brittany, the common food was vegetables, 
bread, fruit, curdled milk, pork, etc. ; a little flesh, 
wine, and cider. In South-Eastern France workmen 
were very abstemious, but more flesh is now eaten. 
(For the fare of Marseilles and Xice, see pp. 149, 1 f'O.) 

In Spain the cancer rate appears to be very low. 
The fare of the majority of the people has been frugal, 
— bread, fruit, vegetables, wine, water, oil ; but the 
consumption of flesh must be rapidly increasing if the 
statistics of food supplies are correct. Tea and coffee 



488 STRENGTH AND DIET 

are very little used. The tobacco smoked is slightly 
more per head than in England. 

In Germany as a whole the rate is high, but the 
differences between the States are very considerable. 
The diet on the whole is mixed, and commonly 
consists of much flesh, especially pigs, coarse bread, 
vegetables, beer, and coffee. But the poorer classes in 
many parts do not eat so much flesh as the English. 
The potato is a staple in a large part of Germany, 
especially Prussia and Silesia. The consumption of 
this root appears to be much larger than in any 
European state except Belgium, but probably much of 
the produce figured in the statistics is used for 
cattle. 

The consumption of flesh is about the average for 
Europe, of coffee and tea rather high, and of tobacco very 
high. 

The following states have a low cancer mortality 
for Germany : — Prussia, Saxe-Coburg-Gotha (lowest). 
The diet of the latter was porridge, dumplings, 
potatoes, bread, beer, very little flesh ; and of Prussia, 
mixed flesh and vegetables, little fresh meat, bread, 
beer ; in the country, little flesh, much bread, 
potatoes, and vegetables, and beer or spirits in 
moderation. At Dantzig, the diet was rye bread, 
potatoes, milk, vegetables, pork, beef (flesh 100 lb. per 
head), a little sugar ; at Konigsberg, East Prussia, 
bread, potatoes, peas, bacon, vegetables, fish, chicory, 
coffee ; in Pomerania, North Prussia, at Gels, corn, peas, 
potatoes, butter, flesh (sometimes), salt, beer, brandy ; 
at Standel and Wernigerode, rye, potatoes, cabbages, 
milk, butter, salt — beer and coffee were generally used 
in moderation. The Official Eeport on Prussia stated 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 489 

that half the families of the artisau class lived poorly : 
" Fresh meat is an exceptional luxury, and indulgence in 
spirituous liquor beyond their means." (1870.) 

The following states had a high mortality : — Baden, 
Bavaria, Saxony, Hesse, Elsass-Lothringen, and 
Wurtemberg ; also the following towns : Munich, 
Dresden, Breslau, and others. 

In Bavaria and Munich, with their exceedingly 
high rate, the fare was formerly simpler than at 
present ; for some time past, bread, pulse, fruit, and 
vegetables, and beer have been supplemented by a 
copious addition of flesh in the richer parts. Beer 
and coffee have been very largely drunk for a long 
time, and the tobacco consumption is also large. The 
amount of beer consumed is the biggest in the 
world. 

In Baden the consumption of flesh, beer, and cofiee 
is large in the richer districts, and these two beverages 
are everywhere in use. 

I have no particulars for Elsass-Lothringen except 
that the consumption of beer, though increasing and 
large, is much below that of Wilrtemberg. In 
Wurtemberg, with a high rate, the common diet is 
flesh, ham, sausages, bread, cheese, and weak beer and 
cofl"ee, and no doubt potatoes and other vegetables. The 
beer consumption is very large, but less than that of 
Bavaria. 

In Hesse-Darmstadt, with black bread, vegetables, 
some flesh, etc., for food, probably beer and coflee are 
common beveraoes. 

Even in 1871-83, according to Hirsch, the cancer 
rate of Stuttgart was 6 "3, of Bremen 8'1, of Hamburg 
7'Q, and of Berlin 5*7. At Frankfort the rate was 



490 STRENGTH AND DIET 

stated to have diminished from 1863 to 1883. 
Frankfort is very largely inhabited by Jews. 

It appears that in Germany, as a whole, the cancer 
rate is highest in the richer districts, and where flesh, 
especially pork, beer, and coffee are most largely con- 
sumed ; but the indications are not distinct. A note 
on some of the peculiar properties and effects of 
Bavarian beer will be found in the chapter of 
Addenda, 

In Austria the rate was high, similar to that of 
Germany, in 1900. The consumption of flesh was 
moderate, like that of Germany, of tea and coflfee very 
much lower, of tobacco the third highest in the world. 
In 1870 the diet of the labourino; classes was described 
as consisting of pork, flour dumplings, bread, cheese, 
and eggs. There are great differences — in Tyrol the 
peasantry ate a good deal of flesh, but the wood- 
cutters lived on farinaceous food, while in Upper 
Austria large numbers lived chiefly on vegetables. 
The rate is high in the beer-drinking parts. In Salzburg 
province, where the cancer rate is high, much flesh, 
pork, and salt is eaten, and beer is very largely drunk. 
—(Wolff".) 

In Hungary the rate was very low. The diet was 
chiefly bread, fruit, potatoes, and occasional vegetables. 
The Polish and Hungarian peasants lived almost 
entirely on oatmeal bread and potatoes. Beer, tea, 
and coffee were little used. The fare amons; well-to-do 
people seems to be most excellent and various, and 
includes many kinds of loaves, rolls, and cakes, 
chestnuts, nuts, plums, fruit salad, whipped cream, 
many kinds of fruits, many kinds of vegetables, 
chocolate, melons, poultry, etc. Figs and prunes, 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 491 

and curd from skimmed milk, are much eaten by all 
classes. 

It is to be observed that in Austria a high rate, and 
in Hungary a low rate, is found with a low consumption 
of flesh. But amono' the richer classes in Austria, and 
some of the peasant districts, the flesh consumed is 
much in excess of that consumed by similar classes in 
Hungary. Beer is apparently much more drunk in 
Austria than in Hungary. 

On turning to an old copy of Public Health for 
1889, I find that according to the last British Consular 
Keport of that time, the Hungarian peasantry were 
" from necessity vegetarian." The chief article was the 
potato. Green food, vegetables, and millet formed 
about a fourth of the food, and potatoes a fifth. Fasts 
are strictly observed in the Greek Church. Corn 
brandy is largely drunk. 

In Italy the cancer rate is medium. The people 
are generally frugal. The amount of flesh consumed 
was moderate, of sugar, tea, coff'ee, and intoxicants 
small ; the tobacco was medium, a little below that of 
England. The upper classes in Italy eat a large 
amount of flesh. The daily energy of food consumed, 
in foot-tons, is extremely small. Bread, macaroni, 
vegetables, flesh, maize, water, and wine are the 
common fare in most parts. 

Hirsch gives the rate for Italy in 1881-3 as 6*1, for 
Lombardy 9 "3, and for Sardinia 2*0. If these figures 
are correct, mortality has not increased in the last 
twenty years. 

In Holland the cancer rate was very high. The 
amount of flesh consumed per head is not very large ; 
pork is a common food, coff'ee is drunk in very large 



492 STRENGTH AND DIET 

quantities, and similarly the consumption of tobacco 
much exceeds that of any other nation. The food- 
energy is very high. In the Netherlands, in 1869-79, 
the rate of cancer was 4"9, in Nordholland 5*5, in 
Drenthe, S'l.— (Hirscli.) 

In Belgiwn the cancer rate was rather low. More 
flesh is eaten than in Holland, much less coffee is 
drunk, but still a large quantity per head ; the beer 
consumption has lately risen to a very high figure, and 
the tobacco consumption is large — double that of 
England. In Brussels a common diet was bread, lard, 
potatoes, vegetable soup, milk, weak coffee and chicory. 
The food-energy is extremely high. In Brussels, in 
1864-73, the cancer rate was 3 '9. — (Hirsch.) 

In Norway the rate for cancer was very high, the 
statistical figures of flesh, coffee, and salt consumption 
large. Since a large part of the population eats little 
fish or flesh, we must conclude that the richer classes, 
especially in towns, eat both fish and flesh in exceed- 
ingly large quantities. This conclusion may also be 
derived from the observations of travellers. Alcohol 
in the form of spirits was not largely drunk, except in 
certain towns and districts. Cancer is found even in 
remote dwellings on the fiords. In 1862-66 the cancer 
rate was 5*2, in Christiania 7, in Trontdjem town 9 '9, in 
South Bergen 3*8. 

In Siveden the cancer rate was very high. Flesh is 
eaten to a moderate amount ; coffee, tea, and tobacco 
are largely used. The people generally live on a simple 
fare. There was much alcoholic drinking. According 
to the Official Report, little meat was eaten by the 
general population, except smoked pork or salt 
herrings. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 493 

In Denmark the cancer rate was very liigli. There 
is a moderate amount per head of flesh-eating, a very 
hirge consumption of coffee and intoxicants, and a food- 
energy value higher than that of England. The Official 
Report stated that the Danish workman was less frugal 
than the German, that cookery was bad, and the con- 
dition of Copenhagen insanitary ; the average cubic 
space per head was 213 feet only. 

In Sivitzerland the cancer rate was very high. Flesh 
was eaten in very moderate quantities, excluding 
strangers ; tea and coftee were much used, and the figure 
for tobacco was among the highest. The food-energy 
was low\ The common diet is frugal, and largely 
consists of bread, milk, cheese, and cofi'ee. I find, how- 
ever, in the Official Eeport (1870), that "meat is the 
staple of the working man's food." This, no doubt, 
refers to the towns, where the flesh consumption is very 
large. 

In Portugal the cancer rate was low. Flesh con- 
sumption was rather low, tea and coff"ee very low, 
tobacco, probably like Spain, rather high. Food- 
energy low. The common fare was frugal and largely 
veoetarian. 

In Servia and in Roumania the cancer rate is appar- 
ently low. The consumption of flesh is not remarkably 
high in the statistical taljles, slightly exceeding that of 
France. Tea and coff'ee extremely small. Food-energy 
low. In the Carpathians the diet is plain and vegetarian ; 
in the low country a good deal of beef and mutton are 
eaten. The staple of the Roumanians consists largely 
of maize, fruit, seeds, and milk. Many of the Magyars 
live on fried potatoes, cucumbers, bread, and coff'ee. 

In the United States the cancer rate is high. 



494 STRENGTH AND DIET 

especially in the cities. Here, again, we must remem- 
ber that the rate would be still higher if the towns, 
and, indeed, the whole country, did not contain a 
disproportionate number of young people. San 
Francisco has a particularly high rate. 

The consumption of tlesh, of tea and coffee, especially 
coffee, and of tobacco, is exceedingly large, but of 
intoxicants much below that of England. Coffee- 
drinkers in the United States use a larger amount per 
head than almost any other people in the world. On 
the other hand, there are millions of rather frugal 
members of the community — immigrants from Europe, 
negroes, etc. The cancer rate among negroes was 
very low. Of six Eastern States named in the Irish 
Report, Maine has for some years had the highest rate, 
and Michio'an has the lowest. 

In Canada the flesh eaten is much less, the tea 
and coffee much less, and the tobacco less than half. 
The cancer rate is considerably less than in the States. 
In both countries young immigrants are numerous. 

In Neiv South Wales the cancer rate, thouoh 
hioh is not amono- the highest. The amount of flesh 
consumed was extremely large, nearly double that of 
the United States, of tea and coflee the amount was 
large, but not quite the largest. Strong tea is the 
constant drink of the majority. The tobacco consump- 
tion is much larger than in either England or France. 

It is very remarkable that French, Swedish, and 
German settlers have a much higher cancer mortality 
than the white Australians, native born ; while the 
settlers from the United States, Italy, and China have 
a lower mortality. English settlers are more attacked 
than the native colonists. The Australian aborigines 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 495 

have been free from the disease. 1 })elieve it is the 
case that the settlers with the higher rate are large 
beer-driukers. 

In Neiv Zealand the cancer rate is high for a new 
country. The diet is very largely of flesh, and much 
tea is drunk, as in England or Australia. 

South America has a very high cancer rate in 
parts of Brazil, in Buenos Ayres, and in Uruguay. In 
all these there appears to be a very large use of flesh 
meat. (In iVrgeutina, " three times as much as 
Englishmen.") In San Paulo, Brazil, black beans, 
roots, pork, beef, coflee, and spirits are the common 
diet. In many parts of Brazil jerked beef, mandioca, 
codfish, rum, and coflee. The Indians of Uruguay in 
former times lived on fish, venison, and honey. 

Central America has a very low cancer rate. In 
most parts the fare is vegetable, but in Venezuela "as 
much beef as in Germany " is eaten. Panama has 
(partly) a diet of "meat and rice" and strong 
spirits. The cancer rate for these countries is 
w^anting. 

Guatemala has a low cancer rate ; so has Mexico. 
Probably the common fare is almost wholly vegetable, 
as in Colombia. Strong spirits and cofl"ee are common 
drinks in the towns. Maize and haricot beans, 
according to the Encyclopaedia, are the main sustenance 
of the people. Cancer is not uncommon in the towns 
on the high plateau of Mexico. 

Arabs and Copts in Egypt have, /or that country, 
a high rate. The diet among the rich is like the 
European. Generally the diet is bread, vegetables, rice, 
flesh, and coflee. 

Egypt has a very low rate as a whole. The 



496 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Mussulman black race has hardly any cancer. The 
diet is vegetarian and temperate, probably without 
spirits, beer, coffee, and tea. 

Similarly Tunis, Morocco, Syria, and the Arabian 
Highlands have a very low rate. In the last, cancer is 
very rare or unknown. In all these places the diet is 
spare, and mainly fruit and vegetable, except among 
the rich. 

In India the rate is generally low, medium in some 
parts. The diet is mainly vegetarian, but strong 
condiments are used by many. Mohammedans and 
Europeans in India are much more subject to cancer 
than the Hindoos. But the native kangri-wearers are 
attacked by the disease. The chewers of betel are 
attacked in the mouth. 

Ceylon had rather a low rate, but not for an Eastern 
tropical country. The hemp-habit is very pernicious. 

The following had a low rate : — Africa, the West 
Indies, Kashmir, Siam, Laos, the East India Islands, 
Borneo, Java, New Guinea, Mauritius, Sardinia, Cala- 
bria, Corsica, Lower Bengal, Jamaica, Japan, the 
Antilles, Polynesia, Samoa. 

In all these countries the fare was mainly vegetable 
and simple, and coffee and tea and intoxicants mostly 
little used. In Corsica, however, coffee is a favourite 
drink." 

In the Faroe Islands, where cancer seems to be 
absent, fish is the common fare, with bread and a few 
vegetables. (See Hirsch.) 

In Greenland and Iceland, cancer was rare. 

In Turkey and Greece, very rare (Hirsch), or rather 
frequent (Clemow). According to the Ofiicial Report, 
the Greek people were extremely frugal, and on 195 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 497 

days in the year were restricted to wine, bread, and 
olives. 

In Algiers, rare among the natives, Kabyles. — 
(Hirsch.) 

In Senegambia and West tropical Africa, rare. 

In Mexico town and Puebla, more common than on 
the coast. 

In Quito (Ecuador) and Peru, not common. 

In Barl)adoes and in Brazil (Sta. Catterina), common. 

In Martinique, not very uncommon. 

Hirsch, from whom the last items are derived, warns 
his reader against accepting the figures given as inter- 
comparable. They must be taken with many quali- 
fications.^^ 

In a table showing the part of the Jjody afi'ected 
in a large number of cases, it appears that the cases of 
lip cancer in males were 247, in females 2 ; of tongue 
cancer in males 419, in females 70. These figures 
are exceedingly significant of irritation as a prime 
cause. 

Abyssinia has a medium rate. The diet includes 
much flesh and beer. 

Parts of China have a medium rate. The diet of 
China is generally vegetable, but some classes eat much 
meat (pork, birds, fish, snails, etc.), and drink much 
tea. Cancer is not common in the country population. 

The Tibetans appear to have a very high rate of 
cancers and tumours. They eat much flesh, and much 
tea beaten in butter and salt. This last is even 
described as their staple dish. They also include 
wheat, rice, vegetables, beer, and brandy. 

The towns of Europe having the highest rate during 
the last ten years were Copenhagen and Munich. Both 

on 



498 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of these are in cold climates, both are largely meat- 
eating, beer-consuming, and coffee-drinking. Vienna, 
Stuttgart, and Strasburg have recently approached 
Munich in mortality ; in fact, considering that Vienna 
excludes sarcoma, this town has one of the very 
highest rates. Only eighteen towns are named in the 
Irish report ; of these Brussels had much the lowest 
mortality, next came Boston, Buda-Pesth, New York, 
and Philadelphia. The fare of the workman at Brussels 
was chiefly bread, potatoes, vegetables, weak coffee and 
chicory. But the latest statistics show a very large 
increase of beer-drinking. In Buda-Pesth little flesh 
was eaten by the industrial classes, but probably much 
by the well-to-do. Coffee and tea were much less used 
than in other capitals. In New York, Boston, and 
Philadelphia much flesh, coffee, beer, spirits, and 
tobacco were used, but the beer was below the average 
of English or German towns. In recent years 
Americans have been showing caution in the use of 
coftee and tea, and good authorities have warned the 
population of the effect of coffee on the kidneys and 
brain. Prepared grains are widely replacing flesh meat. 
The Official Report on the condition of the industrial 
classes in foreign countries, published in 1870, contains 
the following account of the common fare at Stutt- 
gart: — "The working man has facilities greater in some 
respects than in England. He is able to indulge in 
meat as a daily article of food, and even the poorest 
artisan eats sausage if unable to procure fresh meat. 
An enormous amount of beer is drunk — about 130 
bottles a head, or about 380 bottles a year to each 
male above fourteen, — a very high rate for a wine- 
producing country." 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 499 

In Russia the cancer rate is rather low, except in 
the towns. 

In St. Petersburg, according to the Official Report, 
beer has o-ained o-reat f\xvour anions; the mill hands, 
but otherwise was little drunk. Animal flesh is eaten 
largely by some classes, little by others, in the towns ; 
in the country it forms only a small part of the fare. 
Beer and brandy are much less drunk per head than in 
other countries, such as Germany and Denmark. Flesh 
is largely eaten by the well-to-do, little by the poorest 
classes. 

The case of Brussels is peculiar. With a low rate 
(for Europe) of cancer, it has had a moderate rate of 
flesh and coffee consumption, but has rapidly increased 
the use of beer since 1889, and now stands far above 
England. The " coffee " commonly used has been 
mixed with a large proportion of chicory. 

I have endeavoured in the followino- table to state 
the rates and amounts, obtained from figures and 
reports, in general terms, as being less confusing, on 
the whole, than the actual figures and details, which 
can be referred to without difficulty in most cases. 

It is not possible, in regard to many of the remoter 
countries included, to give more than an impression of 
the facts, but I hope that no error has been made of 
such importance as to vitiate the general results. 



500 



STRENGTH AND DIET 















(-1 

o 






02 F^ 






J3 

_6p 


© 

-u 

^ 03 












© 


© S 

ncj a 

O 03 




swsww 


t>>w 




^>>Ui 


l> 


^ 








^ 




^ 




iZ 


" <B © © 

■-^ -tJ -t-3 -U 


'1 o 

•-^ -1-3 




-4-3 
CO 

© 


© 

a 


P -t3 




S :e c3 cS 

S- tH tH !-< ,^ 
OJ <» O «> 

C'^ -^ -r: ':3 


a g- 


rSH ^ r^ ^ 

o zj a r/' 


^ © © '3 w 


t>i 


© 1^ 

© 




5 c o o -jf 


-t^ S o :i 


3 13 S S 


' — p p -iJ p 


© 


■^-' © 




t>gsg;:3 


h3>g^ 


g^S> 


^S^^ 


^ 


> 


d 

8 


^ 


^ 
^ § 




,J3 
o 


« 




i 


ci 


■73 g^ O o 




^ CS 


rJd 




o 


O rSi JH ^ ^ 


^ ^ ^ ja 


© b'^ b 


_bc ^ 


^ 


H 


12 o o o o 


o o © © 


IS 13 


© 


O S pi f3 |3 


O g P S 


;=! p 3 3 


pi S o S3 


--^ p 


P 




ggg^S 


§;>gggggg 


1^ kI >^ ^C 

^ f> ^ p> 


s 


S 


c8 


^ 






'© 
p 


-u 


^ 


T! 


'2 CD 






^ a 


© 


o 

p 






05 
© ^ ^ © 


^ ^ ^ ^ 


© n3 qs b 


rC5 


a 

f>3 


J^ 


3 " © 'TS 


o o © o 


-a © 


its 


© :3 o ;i j3 


-tf pi =; o 


P P pi 3 


p o *^ S 


w 13 


© 


o 
D 


KT t^ tH fer-l krH 

P> r-5 ^ <i ^ 


;:qggggg^§ 


§g;3> 


^ 


> 




05 


© © © 




© © 


© 






-1-3 


-ui -i-= -u 




-1-3 -1-3 


-1-3 




H 


c8 


c^ c3 c3 


, 


oS ei 


c8 






^ tH 


;-< 1^ ^ 




1^ !-l 


^ 




■S 


^ ^ © ^ Oi 


© © (B © 


r::^ ^ ^ ^ 


^ d) © © 


© 


A 


s 


o o '3 u 'T3 


•Tj 'Ti T3 "13 


© © © © 


© 'CJ '13 ts 


f-^ 


© 


c-" 


^ :i -^^ o 


O O O -^^ 


P P P s 


P O -t3 O 


O 


P 


Ph 


^g;j§s 


^^^-a 


^ss^ 


^^■^:^g 


§ 


§ 


(i5 
Is 


^ 

^ 

o 




^ ^ X ^ 


'^ ^ r^ 






P3 

0) 


© © © 
-1-3 -1-2-1.3 


_fcC_fcC_&C_tJD 
IS )S !S i5 


to ^ bD 

:5 ^-^ 


© 

-1-3 




1 


i-j ^ ^f-H f-i rH 


© ^ © © 


t^. >i >i >^ 


>,^ >^ >, 


© 


>i 


be 6C^ so bo 


^ U '^ 7-1 
© © © © 


^ be f-t ^ 
© .^ © © 


o 


© 


o 


tSSp^wS 


^W^S 


1>>>^> 


>K>> 


g 


> 



o 

•1^ 



o fs^ 



fl o3 o 



© m 



H 






>^ a 2? © 

=1 «:' f- c3 



C T^ 

o $, 

bO bj3 S 

P © G 

^ o P p 

;S O r- © ' 

CO I « ,t3 © 






S -S ^"^ 

yl CC y I 1 

?j P 3 o 
CZ2 <^ W W 



pq 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 501 





















^ 


CD c3 c5 a) a; (^ 


05 


<D 


ci 










o 


-3 W S c3 :i c3 


-1-3 -u 


*J -u 


-1-3 5 












c3 ci 




ci ^ 










S rfi 


2 ai cc 2 i: 2 


^ '" 


i^ £-. 


fH 03 










^r u3 r^ -^ 1- ;-t -^ — ' ^ 

.SP'S'^oSEjOoo 


%%'^ 


C 


|r 





-1-3 
-1-3 


-t3 


05 

-1-3 
-1-3 


ffiW 


^>>s^s 


gSS 


1^ 1^ 


§> 


1^ 


^ 


^ 


h-5 


o 


<y 


Zj <B 














-l-= 


-1-3 


-►-3 +3 














ci 


CS 


Ci ci 














-£ ^ 


JJ O ^ _a S ^ 


3 S 


r2 -2 


^ -£ 


c 


r2 


a; 


® 


-*-3 ^ 


3 +j 13 -iJ "3 13 


-73 -^ 


13 13 


-1-3 13 




-1-3 


13 


13 


-J o 


-tS _t3 ,t= ,>o o -i^ 


c c 


-t3 -tJ 


-1-3 -1-3 


Q 


-1-3 


-.J 


-3 


;js 


;:q;:33^s^s^ 


^^ 


^^ 


^-H 


'^ 


^ 


'^ 




-% fcoo. c^ ^ 


















2:2 i^ « ^ J 






0) a; 

-U -1-3 












2 t. rt Is P ^ 




c^. c^. 


Ci g 










^ ^ 


t-^ll^l 


^ r^ ^ 


r^ r^ 


C 










"o ^ 


H '^ ^ 


'y '0 


r— f r^ 










;: :i 


Qj ~S S ^ 




S S 













%% 


>p^§^>^ 


III 


SS 


§S 










J3 


<B c; "Tt 


r- r-i 






4) 


^ 


-2 


-2 


o 


■13 13 IS s ® 





0) 




© qs 


-1-3 




-1-3 




13 il ts ^ -»f 




-1-3 -U 




-^ l3 


-1-3 


-k3 


-1-3 






?a fl 


ci ci 




ci .^ 














t-i ^ 












1 ^ 


1 b ^ ?? ??| 
" y a; 


D ,— 


<» 



d) 
-►3 ^-3 

■1-3 -1-3 


3 05 


^ 







s 


§;> 


s>>>>s 


P> ►> r=ii 


Sg 


^^ 


S> 


> 


>- 


> 












S^ 


;h 


%^ 


tJ 




























^ ,=i A 









c; 


^ 


03 


Ci 0) 


aj c « 
-(J -(-3 -u +3 -1-3 


w 

::3 izj 13 


c 
-1-3 


d) 

-*5 


S 13 


-1-3 


13 
-1^ 




cs rt 


ci rt rt :t c5 


^ ^ ^ 


ci 


ci 


ci .ti 


<s -"S 


® ;z3 


05 •'ti 0) 


^ s-> 


^ ;^ ^ ^ ^ 




^ -.-, 


^ 








non 
ery 1 
non 


o o 


o a ri: O) 
c 5 5 =: 2 


?^ h" b 

^ t-l f-l 
« a:) cu 


"T! -1-3 

-^^ 


uch 
ttle 
ode 


m 


>^ 


^S 


%'^'S.%%%>>^ 


ga 


^;a'P-.%> 


^ 


> 


> 




fc 5 


Tc 


^ 



-1-3 


c 


^ 


& 


^ 


^ 2 


'^ c5 


•^ 





ci 


0) 
















^ 


1— ' '""' 








^- ^ == ^ 'fcb'^ 


'ati'brj jh 


b^ 



^ & 




3 >^ 


b 


r^ 




« -^3. •-•'-' <» 


<u 


i2 


CD 


'- 0) 

> 


> 


05 
> 












, ^,^_^ 


















-tJ 53 










• • ■ .2 * ■ 


e3 


• 




Cu 


* 


• 


' 




--^ 


t: 






ic '-' 










s 


»5 ?Q 






M c 








|1 


Switzerland 

Portugal . 

Spain 

Servia and Roum 

United States . 

Canada 

New South Wale 

New Zealand . 

South America ( 


Uruguay) 
Central America 
Guatemala 
Venezuela 
Eussia 
Bulgaria . 
Arabs and Copts (! 
Egypt (Mussulma 


"S 

H 







p 




.2 

C/2 



502 



STRENGTH AND DIET 

















j:h 


tJC 






















-o 


fl 






















^ 










i 














a 


o3 








'u 














^^-^ 


03 








'S, 


o 


_2 


^ 




O 




_© 




a 03 


03 03 




02 


























-1-3 


'3 


-t-3 








-to 




-1-3 -3 








-U 








Q 




-(-3 




-t3 ^-a 


-i-3 -o 






























3 


t-H 


'^ 




:2; 




J 




^H^ 


^^ 




0) 


r5 

13 


-2 
"3 


s 




3 

fl 




03 




03 aj 




03 03 ^ 




3 


-*3 

3 






O 

2; 




o 






2 ."S 


o o .-a 






















S 


















© 






o 




o 














X! 






© 




s 














S-l 






-<-3 


^ 


1 






2 








o 




C3 ^ 

13 13 


ri 

-i-3 '^ 


o 






f3 








1— 1 




-1-3 -1-3 


-t3 O 










^ 








03 




33 


3g 




i 


(S 


03 














^ r2 


03 










c; 












13 13 


"3 03 






-i-= 




-4-=" 














_-t3 -tf 




























c$ 


~^ 


"-• 














— « ^^ 


■"■ ^ 


<X)Cl>^0^'S)<^<D 


0^ 


>i 


t? 


-73 












^^ 


>2r^ 


.J-3-4-:>.l-=>-4-=>-4-d4^.4-9-<-^ 


as 



o 




03 
> 


O 












03 53 


» O 






g 


g 






















•a 


il 










03 




03 03 


:o 




-t^ 






03 














f— H ^ 






-i-:^ 










-^ 




-i^ -^ 






H 


-1-3 


o :^ 










-tJ 






;5 H 










X, Si 


















JS 




S 


—1 gi 




03 










03 


0333^_03O^a3a3 


X 


>s O >5 


O r— • 






>5 




>5 >3 


>->-— 




<D 


^ 




Xi ^^ 








t/ 




i-K rH 




I3l3l3l3l3l3'3l3 


m 




r- O 




O 




03 




03 33 




-l-3-t3.U-|-3^.3,»J+3j.3 

33333333 






>i 




















<D 




t^ 




















1 




03 




















^ 


> 


03 








03 






o 








-I.3 








-»i 










(n 


^ 


^ 


:3 








ce 






c5 




<I) 




O 


g 03 








k^ 










s 


>i 


^ 




-J3 




03 

o 




fe & 


03 

II 


^^^^&^^^ 


O 


o 


o 


— 










o o 


oooooooo 


> 


h^ 


S 




M 




S 




h-;^ 


.jH^H^HqHJwqh-lJ 






















^^ 
























O! 












^ 


'/' 








. .4-3 


S. ' 






















'■^ 














f— 


? 


'A 






03 


'>i^-^ 




>, 


M 


cc 


rt 


1— ( 


03 


03 






^ 




CO 
• • • • fl • • • 


t? 


;^ 


o 


C 


*^ 


•^ 


13 






^ 


1 t 


03 


c 


^ 




d 


^ 


tc 












CO hH tS 


6 
o 


W 


J 


5 


03 




'c 


• 




3 


IpI 


_0 ..... 03 




£- 


^ 


S 




>> 


03 






2 


2 ?3 ?! 

<I To'Ec 
<5^ 


'^.ii ^ '5 




<1 


.2 


o 


p 

3 


_§ 
M 


s 


03 

O 




J IP 


^ r; i-H 03 ^ 
03'2SocotH>?, 

ta. .'^ .S eS cS O S « 

^: W OQ ^q H pq h^ ^ 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 503 













^ 






















y a 






.«^ 






o 




a 






a) 






--i -»^ 
















-4-3 






-4-3 






:3 r3 






• ^^ 






"ci 




rt 




(^*. ff-». 








•-' >«,'-' 












;-i 




S-i 








o 


o 

3 


(U O O O o 




0) 


>^3 


"3 




o 








y 


» 


-^ 


-^ 


0*2 ^ ^ o 




•-^ 


S .-S 


-1-3 




o 




o 




3 3 


n 


;j;j^;5 s^s 




'^ 


>-^^ 




s 




s 




l— ( nrJ m 1-^ 












-2 
















® 












-^ 
















-4-3 




























cS 


G 


a 


O O « O O 






T* o 


o 




o 




o 




3, ^ 


s © 












>^^^ 




















-^ -^ *3 -^ _»J 






C?-*^ 














^3 "3 




O O 


-U -l-i ->J -ti -iJ 

t-H t-H h-J t—H j 








-to 
1— I 




^ 




^ 




-^ ->3 

1— 1 l-H 


Sp5 


0) 


s 


© 






o 










(D 






a> 


<»^ 


-4-i 


-i^ 
















-4^ 






-4.3 


33 


=3 


cS 






"^ 










c8 








l-i 










;-i 










;h 






^ 


a 


s 


o ^ 






o 


^ 




A 




s 




"^ _ <^ ,-^ 


^ 


TS 'T3 


'w -u 






■T3 


-t3 




o 








y iJ 


"^ -i-3 


o 


o 


O +=■ 






O 


-4-3 




s 




6 




^ JU ^ 


C -^3 


t^ 


^ 


s;:^ 








^ 








s 




s^^ 


%-;a 






o o 












o 




O 












*s ->J 
















-iJ 












cS c; 












ci 




ci 




CO- C-»- 








^ ^ 
























<a o o 


o 


<S O S S5 O 




o 


o o 


o 




^ 




V 




-2 ^ ^ 


jj ^ 
































-t3 


-t3 '^ r3 -J -1-3 






-l-i -t-= 


-t-3 












TS 13 "3 


-4-3 -^.d 


-►i -i-i -ki 


J 


v-i ^ S I-: h5 




-US 


1—5 M 


-1-3 




o 




o 




_-»^ -1-3 -ei 


-t3 -h3 


♦-^ l-H k-^ 


~^^ 


t-H »-H 










^ >> 






















































v. 


























o 


^ 


> 








o 


















-i.3 


'o 


O 


^ 






rt 








-4-3 -4-3 


-4-3 

C3 






^ 


D 




u 














!-i ;-! 


;h 


« (» o 


^ 


^ ^ ^ _© _» o 


^— 


j3 ^ _« 


o 




o 




^ 




^ <a 


^ 


^ "S '3 




,JJ "^ '^ -iJ -i-a TT 


^ 


:," 


— T3 -i-i 


TS 




-.J 




■3 




-4.3 '^ r^ 




-^ ,J _*J 




jj ^j .^ -tj ,j - 






«- -u -tj 


-t3 




o 




-4-3 






C -to 


1— i t— ^ ^ 


^ 


-» -^ -^ -« -< ^ 




«< 


t— ^ >-< 


t— 3 




^ 




1 
1— 1 




;3II 


^ t^ 


> > 


> 
























?= 




























c c 


^ 














o 








© 





















-b3 








-4J -4J 


-43 . 1 


b< » 


^ 



























& :S'5 




> t- ^ > > ^ 




> 


•> ^ 


^ 








> 




> '^ TS 




-^ 
























X -1.3 


o c; c; 


ce o o o o o o 
P!5 J K-; h-3 ^ h-5 ^ 






o o o 




^ 

^ 




t— J 




Jll^;l 










-^ 




, 




f 


























































c; 




CO 




























I-' 




si 








' -rG 












t— 1 




^ 






o 









. 








CS 








, , 




^ 




c" 


cc 






_?-; ;^ 




' zn 








^ 




T) 




> 




rt 




'Z^h^ l-^ 




5 








s 




g 




o 


a 


:3 





— - , 








• m 








cS 




JJ 




0" 

-4.3 
0= 




- It, 




New Calet 

Mauritius 

Sardinia 

Corsica 

Jamaica 

Japan 

Antilles 

Polynesia 

Samoa 

Faroe Islei 






Turkey 
Greece 
Bcchuanal 


t3 
C 

o 


cT 
o 

fc-H 


Pi 




Peru (lliri 
Earbadoes 
Martin iqu 


■n ^ 

^0 



504 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



a 
o 



a 

© © aj 

O -iJ O 






K § 



S O ?3 O 



oj oj a) 

•4-3 -U -l-i 

~. c: c3 rt 

=^ ^ tn Sh 

^ CJ O OJ 

iJ '^ '-a tS 

s o o o 



£3 


0} a) (D 


O 


O -kJ o 


^ 


s;j!25 



2 -^ >^ 

S '75 c o o a) 

'-' -*^ -(J *3 ^J -u 

Q^ G ci ct ^ ci 



.6C ^ ^ ^ ^ -1^ 
^^ 'o 'o "o 'o !^ CJ --3 



'<D 5 



rS o 






^ X ^ X rfi rCj 

o o o o o o 



^ ^ X ^ 

o o o o 

13 ;=: p :i 



O 



^ 



S ^ ^ 

o « S ^ ^ 

S O -k^ O S3 s 

> s •;^ g S s 



3 S S O 



X ^ ^ ai 

O O O '"5 



c3 



OJ 



^ o <i; ^ "^ j3 
o r3! '3 '^J <^ u 
13 O -^^ P ^ S 



^ ^ ,£3 H= a> 

O « « O -73 



F^ ^ r^ Oi 
C O « '^ 



tf 



o 






<B r 23 



g 5 S o 3=3-^ 



tp tp ic-t;. 
^ !S IS 

f^ S-, tj ^ 

<y <u (B o 



W 



be 

ei . 



%%%Q£, 






o 



• • • c -1-" • 

§ C £= 
ct rt ci S 'S 

"S 2 "co "S J3 « 



O H^h^ 



-1-3 

.252 = 



M 



bD 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 505 

In the following results, derived from the above 
table, it must be well understood that the accounts of 
cancer prevalence are not in all cases exact or inter- 
comparable ; and that the accounts of diet which I 
have gathered cannot be considered accurate, though ^ 
on the whole, I am sure they are in this matter prac- 
tically in the main correct. Moreover, the official 
statements of beer, etc., consumed cannot give the 
strength or quality or adulterations in vogue, nor can 
they say whether the drinking is general or confined 
to large classes of the people. 

There were twelve countries ha vino- a very hioh 
rate of cancer. Of these, one was very high in flesh 
consumption, seven were high, four moderate. Five 
towns had a very high rate. Of the whole seventeen 
places having the highest cancer rate, thirteen had a 
high or very high rate of flesh consumption. 

Out of the seventeen, three drank very much, and 
fourteen much, coftee or tea. 

As to beer, two drank very much, ten much, two 
moderately, one little, and one very little ; one was 
doubtful. 

Three drank very much, four much, of alcoholic 
spirits ; ten drank in moderation per head, or the 
amount was uncertain. 

Of tobacco, tw^o smoked very much, thirteen much, 
one moderately, and one was doubtful. 

As regards fiesh-eating , of all the places named, 
three ate a very large amount of flesh ; of these, one 
had a very high, and two a high, cancer mortality. 

Twenty-two ate much ; of these, twelve had a very 
high, four a high, four a moderate, one a low cancer 
mortality, and one was doubtful (Venezuela). 



50G STRENGTH AND DIET 

Twenty-eight ate flesh in moderation ; of these, four 
had a very high, four a high, twelve a moderate, 
seven a low, and one a very low rate. 

Twenty-nine ate little ; of these, none had a very 
high or high rate ; four had a moderate, twenty-three 
a low% and two a very low rate. 

Ten ate very little ; of these, one (Ceylon) had a 
moderate, four a low, and five a very low rate. 

As regards coffee and tea, eight places drank very 
largely ; of these, four had a very high, and four a high, 
mortality. The highest coffee-drinking places had the 
hiorhest cancer rate. Not one had a moderate or low 
cancer rate. 

Twenty-two drank much ; of these, thirteen had a 
very high, four a high, five a moderate mortality. 
None had a low rate. 

Seventeen drank moderately ; of these, two (Austria 
and St. Petersburg) had a high, nine a moderate, five 
a low, and one a very low rate (Central America). 

Twenty -nine drank little ; of these, five had a 
moderate, twenty-two a low, and two a very low rate. 

Twelve drank very little or none ; of these, seven 
had a low, five a very low rate, or almost no cancer. 

As regards tobacco, five used very much ; of these, 
two had a very high, three a high rate. 

Thirty-six used much ; of these, fourteen had a 
very high, six a high, eleven a moderate, five a low, 
and one a very low rate (Central America). 

Seventeen used a moderate amount ; of these, one 
had a high, seven a moderate, eight a low, and one a 
very low rate. 

Eight used little ; of these, one had a moderate, six 
had a low, one a very low rate. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 507 

111 very many cases the amount of tobacco smoked 
is doubtful. 

As regards beer, five used a very large quantity ; 
of these, one (or two counting Munich) had a very 
high, two a high, one a moderate rate. 

Twelve used a large quantity ; of these, nine had a 
very high, two a moderate, one a low^ cancer rate. (I 
have counted Brussels for a large beer drinker, with a 
lo\v cancer rate ; but the beer consumption has only 
recently risen to a very high point, and the rate of 
cancer is probably also increasing.) 

Fifteen used a moderate quantity ; of these, two 
had a very high, six had a high, five a moderate, and 
two a low rate. 

Thirty-one used little ; of these, two had a very 
high, one a high, seven a moderate, fifteen a low, six 
a very low rate. The high rates appear in France, 
Sw'cden, and Switzerland. 

Thirteen used very little or none ; of these, one 
had a very high, one a high, one a moderate, ten a low 
rate, or hardly any cancer. The high rate was only 
found in Norway, and in a particular class of Indians 
subject to cancer. 

As to alcoholic spirits, seven used a very large 
quantity; of these, three had a very high, two a high, 
one a moderate, and one a very low rate. 

Twelve used a large quantity ; of these, five had a 
very high, three a high, four a moderate rate. 

Twenty-four used a moderate quantity ; of these, 
five had a very high, five a high, six a moderate, seven 
a low, and one a very low rate. 

Twenty used a small quantity ; of these, four had 
a moderate, twelve a low, and four a very low rate. 



508 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Teu used very little or none ; of these, one had a 
hioh (])ut this was a special class of Indians), two a 
moderate, five a low, and two a very low rate. 

The following table shows concisely the incidence 
of cancer on the nations using the several articles 
mentioned, and from this the class of Indians alluded 
to has been excluded ; in fact, they should not, any 
more than the chimney sweeps of England, have been 
brous^ht into the above enumeration : — 



Countries eating flesh largely 
Countries eating little or no flesh . 
Countries drinking much coffee or tea 
Countries drinking little or no coffee or tea 
Countries using much tobacco 
Countries using little tobacco 
Countries drinking much beer 
Countries drinking little or no beer 
Countries drinking spirits largely 
Countries drinking little or no spirits 





Very high 

and high 

cancer rate. 


Low and 

very low 

cancer rate 


. 25 


19 


1 


. 39 


None 


34 


. 30 


25 


None 


r tea . 41 


None 


36 


. 41 


25 


6 


. 8? 


None 


7 


. 17 


12 


1? 


. 44 


5 


31 


. 19 


13 


1 


. 30 


None 


23 



The faultiness of the method I have had to use is 
here obvious. But nevertheless the indications are 
extremely well worthy of note. 

Taking together the places using flesh, tea or 
coffee, tobacco, beer, or spirits largely, the accumulated 
number with a high cancer rate is ninety-four; the number 
with a low rate nine, or three omitting tobacco : taking 
the places using little or none of some of these things, 
the number with a high cancer rate is five, or zero 
omitting beer ; with a low cancer rate one hundred 
and thirtv-one. But taking those few countries which 
do not use any of the articles named, or so little as to 
Vje unimportant, it appears that these nine or ten popu- 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 509 

lations have luirdly any cancer or none, except, no 
doubt, in certain small classes, as among the users of 
narcotic drugs, condiments, or irritating materials. 

Conclusions of value come, I think, with certainty 
from an inspection of the figures, from a consideration 
of other known facts, and from medical knowledo;e 
concerning the nature of cancer and its development 
by irritation. 

Cancer does not apparently afiect wild animals of 
the kind used for human food, or only to a small 
extent. It does affect domestic animals livino^ under 
artificial conditions, with artificial food, and subject to 
unwholesome surroundings and mutilations. The pig- 
is said to be by far the most commonly subject to 
cancer of all animals, and the pig is kept in the worst 
conditions, with every sort of foul and unnatural stuff 
to feed upon. The wild boar and wild pig live on 
wholesome fresh vegetables, nuts, and fruits. 

The production of cancer in man l^y such sub- 
stances as soot, paraflin oil, betel nut, a rough 
pipe stem, a shar^) tooth, or a recent wound, shows 
that it is a disease caused by the action of an 
irritant, and especially in predisposed persons. Now 
there can be no reason why the irritation of a foreign 
body, or poisonous substance, within the body should 
not produce cancer as well as on the external surface. 
And it happens, I think unquestionably, that the 
accumulation of uric acid or a similar poison derived 
from the copious use of animal flesh, tea or coffee, 
besides being capable of setting up some kind of 
irritation in the body, reduces the resistance of the 
living elements and increases the nervous weakness. 
The body becomes predisposed. The poison contracted 



510 STRENGTH AND DIET 

in the course of years by excessive tea, coffee, or 
tobacco is known to produce extremely serious effects 
in many cases on the constitution, and the effect of 
excessive beer, often containing arsenic or other harmful 
ingredients, is also known to be pernicious. Diffused 
goutiness, if such an expression may be used, and rheu- 
matic tendencies, accompany the excessive ingestion of 
food, with the substances in the list, except, perhaps, 
such spirits as brandy and whisky. A consideration of 
the serious diseases produced by these articles, in- 
cluding tobacco, gives no room for doubt that the 
constitution must become more subject to nervous 
breakdown, brain disturbance, and susceptibility to 
wounds and irritating poisons than the healthy 
communities which have either cut them out of their 
dietary or never employed them. It has been proved 
in our campaigns against various frugally living races, 
like the Soudanese, that they recover most remarkably 
from severe wounds. Their blood and tissues are sound. 

The above tables may be inconclusive. But we may 
observe that in Asia, in Africa, in the United States, 
in South xlmerica, in Europe, and in every part of 
Europe, taken separately, cancer prevails where these 
things have been largely used, and is rare or absent 
where they are not used. This cannot be accidental or 
due to other accompaniments of civilisation, for other 
conditions may be equal or unequal. Moreover, in any 
community such as a monastery or religious association, 
living in a primitive and frugal way, cancer is rare. 
Kecent communications to me from the heads of religious 
orders strict in diet are clear on this point, as already 
indicated in previous chapters. 

Competent and experienced medical authorities in 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 511 

hospitals assure me that cancer is most common 
among highly nourished persons. 

Further, though the increase of cancer in rich 
countries may not be so great as figures indicate, there 
has certainly been an increase corresjoonding closely 
with the increase in flesh-eating and in the use of 
stimulants and tobacco. In countries not sharing in 
the uric acid or poison-producing dietary, the increase 
of cancer has not occurred. 

Cancer is, I think, very clearly due to excess of 
rich food and certain toxins. 

The two most potent factors appear to me to be 
animal flesh and the strong infusion of coflee or tea, 
taken together. That is, wherever much flesh or 
other rich proteid food and much tea or cofiee are 
eaten, in that community there will be much cancer. 
All the highest cancer districts seem to have this 
condition, but in Holland a great excess of tobacco 
and coffee is added to a medium consumption of flesh,, 
and in several countries heavy beer-drinking seems 
to bring a very high rate of mortality. It is these 
communities which are also largely subject to nervous 
disorders, and which send their yearly contingents to 
drink reducing waters at health resorts. Some women 
who have little exercise, and are moderate in their 
use of meat and tea, seem to be as subject to cancer 
as men who are immoderate. There are, no doubt ,^ 
many persons living teraj^erately who easily become 
subject to cancer, esjDCcially among the more refined 
classes. There seems to be an inheritance of this 
predisposition from ancestors, as there is inheritance 
of a gouty tendency from ancestors who were too 
fond of wine. Excess in the use of animal food and 



512 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of tea or coffee seems to produce cumulative effects 
in the course of generations, and then the products 
of worry or indigestion enable the degenerative process 
to take place. But for the immense majority, cancer 
is preventable by hygienic living. The power of man 
for the health of the race is almost unlimited. 

It will be observed from the last table that there 
is at least one exception to the rule that large flesh- 
eating; nations are afflicted with much cancer. I 
believe a good many exceptions could be found among 
savages. But there appears to be no exception to the 
rule that the large tea- and, especially, coffee-drinkers 
suffer in preat numbers from cancer. Tea is used weak 
in some countries, as in China, and when drunk in 
small quantity, after a few seconds or one or two 
minutes' infusion, does little harm. The worst results 
are found where the population eats much nutritious 
food, especially of the albuminous kind, beyond physio- 
logical requirements, and adds large quantities of 
sugary or malted liquids, like beer, and toxic liquids 
like tea or coffee. 

Some effects of beer-drinking are not generally 
known, but they are certainly serious, and I find a 
statement by a medical man which may have a bearing 
on the connection between excess in beer and cancer. 

"It is more than five years since, in an article of 
mine, I drew attention to the condition of heart often 
found in those who drank the so-called honest ale of 
England to excess." Most of the beer drunk by 
labouring men is "vilely bad." Labourers are taught 
from infancy to look upon beer as a necessity of life. 
The hops contained in English beer are a narcotic, 
and " combined with alcohol give rise to nervousness 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 513 

and many distressing troubles that point to a weak 
and fatty heart." 

The " beer heart," or alcoholic-hop heart, has 
been found common in the United States since the 
increased use of Munich beer. The same report comes 
from English doctors, who declare that since Munich 
beer was imported into England the beer heart has 
made dreadful ravages. This beer contains hydrate 
of carbon, which appears to be a decidedly harmful 
ingredient. ^'^ Dr. Stables does not add, what seems 
exceedingly likely, that the unequalled prevalence of 
cancer in Bavaria may be largely due to the beer which 
is consumed there in unequalled quantities from child- 
hood on. Beer, tea, and coffee all affect the heart. 

A correspondent of the Vegetarian Messenger 
describes the diet of the farmers, among whom 
cancer was common, in an English county. " Their 
great delight was pork, as ham, bacon, tripe, 
trotters, roast and boiled." " Both parents and 
nearly all my relatives died of cancer, and they 
all lived in the same w^ay, with wine or beer in 
addition." No doubt strong tea was added to this 
rich fare."^° 

"All people," said Sydney Smith, "above the 
condition of labourers are ruined by excess of stimulus 
and nourishment, clergy included. I never yet saw 
any gentleman who ate and drank as little as was 
reasonable." (1814.) 

In 1828 he wrote : "I not only was never better, 
but never half so well ; indeed, I find I have been very 
ill all my life without knowing it. Let me state some 
of the goods arising from abstaining from all fermented 
liquors. First, sweet sleep, ... no terrors, black 
33 



514 STRENGTH AND DIET 

visions of life, ... I am in . . . extravagant 
spirits." 

In 1836 : " I have had no gout. ... By eating 
little, and drinking only water, I keep body and mind 
in a serene state. ... I find that all my miseries 
of body and mind " (in the past) " have proceeded 
from indigestion. Young people should be thoroughly 
taught the moral, intellectual, and physical evils of 
indigestion." . . . 

" I am convinced digestion is the great secret of 
life ; and that character, talents, virtues, and qualities 
are powerfully affected by beef, mutton, pie-crust, and 
rich soups." 

He declared that he was always in high spirits 
when he drank no wine."^ 

That orreat investis^ator, Dr. William Farr, in dealina; 
with the mortality of occupations, wrote, twenty years 
ago, in relation to the high death-rate of butchers : 
" This useful body of men amounted to 49,403, and 
they experienced a much heavier mortality than any 
other class except the preceding (innkeepers and beer- 
shop-keepers) at the ages under sixty-five." At thirty- 
five the butchers' death-rate was extremely high. 
" The extraordinary mortality of butchers appears to 
have escaped observation. . . . The red - injected 
face of the butcher is an indication of a frail habit 
of body." Dr. Farr then asks, without answering the 
question, To what can this excessive mortality be due ? 

The baker had also a high mortality, though less 
than the butcher's, but from causes easily understood, 
— the long hours at night and the heated, close air in 
which he worked. 

Butchers, as a class, have one of the highest rates 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 515 

for cancer. It is now well understood that Ijotli 
innkeepers and butchers are the victims of habits of 
excess in stimulant food and drink, producing toxic 
effects on the body. 

The consumption of tea and coffee per head in the 
United Kingxlom for a century or two back is given as 
follows by Mulhall :— 

Tea in ounces per head — 

1711 = I oz. 1790 = 24 oz. 1850 = 29 oz 

1725 = i 1800 = 21 1860 = 43 

1740 = 3 1810 = 17 1870 = 61 

1750 = 6 1820 = 18 1881 = 73 

1760 = 9 1830 = 20 1888 = 80 

1770 = 14 1840 = 20 1900 = about 104 
1780 = 9 

Coffee— 

1801 = 1 oz. 1851 = 18 oz. 

1811 = 5 1861 = 21 

1821 = 5 1871 = 15 

1831 = 14 1881 = 14 

1841 = 16 1888 = 13 

In the last Official Report of Revenue and Expendi- 
ture presented to the House of Commons, dealing with 
the year 1903-4, I find that the revenue from tea, 
adjusted to give the true contribution, was, for 
England, £5,178,000; for Scotland, .£710,000; and 
for Ireland, £672,000. These are very large figures, 
especially for a poor population such as that of 
Ireland. 

In fact, a striking feature of recent years is the very 
large waste of the substance of the poorest class on tea, 
l)esides the vast tribute to imperial alcohol. 

The revenue from tobacco was, for England, 



516 STRENGTH AND DIET 

£10,024,000; for Scotland, £1,331,000; and for 
Ireland, £1,272,000. 

The revenue from beer was £11,553,000, £529,000, 
and £945,000 respectively, showing a very large con- 
sumption of beer in Ireland, in addition to whisky. 

In the consumption of spirits Scotland was exceed- 
ingly high, yielding £3,757,000. 

In the Memoranda of the Board of Trade just 
published,"^ it appears that on an average of all classes 
of workmen and their families, about 22s. are spent 
weekly on food ; in this outlay flesh is the heaviest 
item, 4s. 5^d., besides llfd. for fish, llgd, for bacon. 
Is. for eggs, 6|-d. for cheese, all highly albuminous 
foods ; Is l^d. is spent on tea, — that is, over half a 
pound a week, a very large allowance. Half a pound 
is really ample for one person for six months, if the 
tea is made in a cup twice a day, infused from one to 
two minutes. It is clear that the ordinary tea of the 
workman's family is both strong and long infused, and 
capable of wrecking many constitutions even in early 
life. 

The workman with less than 25s. a week spends 
3s. 8|^d. on flesh, bacon, and fish, only 4|-d. on rice, 
tapioca, and oatmeal ; 9^(\. on tea, nearly half a 
pound ; 2d. on coffee and cocoa. Total expenditure 
on food, 14s. 4|d. 

The 30s. wage-earner spends at least 7s. on flesh, 
bacon, fish, and eggs, and consumes with his family 
over half a pound of tea. 

The 40s. man spends 9s. lO^d. on flesh, bacon, 
eggs, and fish, only 4s. 3fd. on bread and flour ; he 
buys nearly seven-tenths of a pound of tea.^- 

In London the expenditure on flesh and fish is even 



DIET IN UELxVTION TO DISEASE 517 

above the high figures given for the average of the 
whole population. 

Among other items I find that f lb. of cheese is 
eaten by the average family, 14 to 20 lb. of potatoes ; 
of rice, tapioca, and oatmeal about 2 lb. in England 
and 4 lb. in Scotland ; of tea a little under | lb., but 
in families with over 25s. about f lb. ; of sugar 5 '3 lb. 
is the average, a very large quantity. 

In the towns of Scotland, families with over 25s. 
actually use about tV lb. of tea a week, and of coffee and 
cocoa about 0'19 lb. In Ireland the same class uses 
0'84 11). of tea, worth Is. 7jd. ; and the class with the 
lowest wages tabulated spends 9|d. on tea, equal to 
0-17 lb. 

The consumption of tea is greatest in Ireland, 0*73 
per fcimily ; next comes London, with 0'67 lb. 

Labourers' families thus spend in a fortnight what 
is economically quite sufficient for ten weeks, and very 
many use this large quantity in destructive strength, 
altoo-ether unlike the lioht l^everaoe of the Chinese and 
Japanese. 

In Ireland a large amount of meat per family is 
consumed in the form of bacon (much of it imported), 
r4 lb. weekly in the poorer, and nearly 2 '2 lb. in the 
better-off families. 

In the diagrams for the United Kingdom, it appears 
that the chief expenditure of all classes is on flesh and 
fish ; the next on butter, milk, cheese, and eggs ; and 
thirdly, far down, comes the staff" of life, most of it 
poor in quality, ill-baked, heavy with water. 

In the official accounts of labourers' food, above 
quoted, I think the expenditure and wages are much 
above what is actually earned in many parts. In fact, 



518 STRENGTH AND DIET 

I have evidence, also from official sources, showing that 
the labourer in Ireland often earns no more than 10s., 
and in England 13s., so that the fare of these people, 
allowing for gardens, would, if counted in, somewhat 
reduce the average given. 

In the evidence before the Committee on Physical 
Deterioration, Sir Lambert Ormsby, M.D., stated that 
"all the Irish are very fond of tea," that they "stew 
it on their hobs before the fire " ; that smoking tobacco 
has very much increased within the last twenty years ; 
that cigarette-smoking by the young assists degenera- 
tion ; that the poorer class in Dublin drink an enormous 
quantity of porter ; and that from some reason there is 
a very serious increase of lunacy. 

Dr. Arthur Shadwell stated that when women out- 
patients have told him they drink tea in great modera- 
tion, he has found it often comes to about twelve cups 
a day of Indian tea, exceedingly black and strong. 
Indigestion and constij)ation result, which they try to 
cure by pills. 

Dr. Haig gave his opinion that tea means uric 
acid, that there are 175 grains of theine in a pound of 
tea ; that caffeine is also practically uric acid, and other 
alkaloids are the same in effect. Beer has about a 
grain to a pint, — that is, about the same as two large 
cups of tea. 

Mr. Greenwood stated that children are ignorantly 
taught to drink tea from infancy. It is the habit to 
give the baby everything to eat which is on the father's 
plate. " The number of deformed people in Sheffield 
is something terrible." The diet of a child that could 
not yet walk was found to be bread and butter and 
tea. Milk is generally deficient. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 519 

Dr. Niven gave his opinion tliat proper feeding of 
school children and others is absolutely vital to the 
future of physical improvement. 

Much other evidence of srreat interest concernino- 
bad feeding, and the abuse of alcohol and tea, will 
be found in the Report, esj)ecially in the replies of 
distinguished j^hysicians. 

Dr. J. T. Macnamara asserted in a recent article 
that " about 20 per cent, of the working-class children 
[in London] are in the most hopeless condition with 
regard to food, housing, and clothing. . . . Very 
many children are underfed. A breakfast of tea-kettle 
broth [bread infusion], a bit of bread and margarine, 
a bit of bread and treacle, and some abominably poor 
tea — these form the three meals daily." ^^ 

These children are being ill prepared for life, both 
by the deprivation of nourishment and by the con- 
tinuous administration of a poisonous drug in the place 
of food. 

In an inaugural address to the Sanitary Institute of 
Great Britain, Sir Douglas Galton said that the Rev. 
Mr. Lintott, who managed the Northern Counties 
Orphan Institution, informed him that the children there 
had been singularly free from children's disorders 
during the eighteen years of the institution's existence. 
Each child had a pint of new milk daily. During 
three months a trial was made of weak tea and one 
pint of milk ; the number of children who were unwell 
rose beyond what it had been for years, and imme- 
diatelv fell as^ain when the milk was restored. ^^ 

These are the conditions — poor, ill-nourishing, in- 
appropriate, and stimulant or toxic food — wdiich prepare 
the constitutions of our young people in town and 



520 STRENGTH AND DIET 

country for tlie development of malignant disease or 
unstable nerves and inefficient digestive capacity. 

When they have grown up their food increases in 
richness, but is still inappropriate — too much flesh, and 
too little wholesome grain and fruit, too much beer and 
tea, too little purifying water as nature supplies it 
from her springs for the benefit of man. 

The towns have been the great consumers of flesh 
and stimulants, yet the towns have produced the great 
majority of inefficients and degenerates. 

In an article written in May 1903,^' Mr. Shee 
showed that British physique is going down, that the 
proportion of men under the minimum standard for the 
army was, in 1845, 105, in 1900, 565 per 1000; that 
11 per cent, of the population is now urban, against 36 
in Germany, and 25 in France ; that in Berlin only 38 
per cent, of intending recruits are fit for service ; in 
agricultural East Prussia, 80 per cent. 

But the purely rural counties of the United 
Kingdom have rapidly acquired dangerous habits of 
perverted alimentation, which will soon bring them 
amono- the deo-enerate folk of the nation. 

The Official Report on cancer in Ireland shows a 
prevalence of cancer both among the highly nourished 
and among the poor women who starve on bread and 
tea. Excessive nutriment is certainly not necessary 
for the genesis of cancer. 

The increase of cancer, like the increase of insanity, 
depends to a very considerable extent on wrong food 
and drink, whether rich and stimulant, or poor and 
stimulant. In Ireland, the inspectors reported that the 
increase of lunacy in the year was 104 above the ten- 
year average, and that was already large. In Carlow 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 521 

County, the leading causes assigned were tlie excessive 
use of alcohol and tobacco ; in Omagh, alcohol and 
ether.'' 

The Commissioners in Lunacy, in their last Report, 
state that " the average annual increase [in the United 
Kingdom] in the ten years ending 31st December 
1903 was 2513. The increase in 1903 exceeded the 
average annual increase in the preceding ten years 
by 821." 

About 150,000 persons were discharged in ten 
years from the asylums, to mix in the general 
community. 

The increase in Ireland has been attributed to the 
less capable and older people being left behind by the 
emigrant tide. I cannot consider this a chief cause, 
for I find that at places like Chicago, where the young 
and strong have settled, the increase of insanity and of 
cancer is most alarmingly rapid. And there food is 
alnmdant and stimulant. 

In each division of the kingdom insanity, 
statistically viewed, has nearly trebled since 1862 ; 
or we may say that, roughly, the percentage has 
doubled in proportion to population. Yet this has 
been the period of an unexampled abundance of 
money, luxury, rich food, and stimulating drinks and 
comforting narcotics. 

The rapid growth of cancer belongs to the same 
period. 

Similarly, appendicitis has become quite common, 
especially, perhajDS, among the rich, who have three 
"good meals," and extras at short intervals. M. Lucas 
Champonniere is reported as having said, at a dis- 
cussion in the French Academy of Medicine, that 



52-2 STRENGTH AND DIET 

■every day more confirmation was fortlicoming of the 
idea that it was the abuse of a meat diet which was 
the principal cause of appendicitis. In countries like 
Brittany, where little meat was eaten, appendicitis is 
very rare.""' 

Mr. Joseph Kidd attributes the disease chiefly to 
hurried meals, imperfectly chewed and digested, and 
aperients."^ 

Gout, a gouty state, and some kinds of rheumatism, 
are well known to follow a diet habitually rich. An 
excessive consumption of meat, says Dr. Arthur C. 
Luff, is a potent factor in the production of a gouty 
state, but some cases of gout improve on an exclusive 
diet of red meat and hot water. " In the case of a 
gouty person a spare and plain diet is required," and 
generally plenty of water and no alcohol. ^'^ 

Lucian, addressing the gout, declared : " Thou 
rieest from the threshold of poverty, and art delighted 
in coming to the feet of wealth." 

And a physician, writing in 1903 : " We are living 
on false stimulants, . . . we are learning, and even 
nationalising, bad hygienic habits. ... It all ends in 
nerve-storms and new nervous diseases, and outlets of 
morbid methods on the part of outraged nature. . . . 
I am writing as an observing physician, who cannot 
reconcile England's coritinued o-reatness with the 

O o 

growing luxury practised by her sons." ^*^ 

I have already quoted Nan sen on the destructive 
effects of coffee and brandy on the Eskimo, The 
following additional testimony of the effects of tea 
and coffee on his own party in Greenland is interesting. 
After having tried the coffee extract two or three times 
in the afternoon and evening, and found that, though 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 523 

it cheered them up for a time, they got little or no 
sleep at night, they first restricted themselves to a 
morning cup, and then tabooed it altogether. Tea as a 
weak infusion seemed to do less harm. 

Nansen came to the decided opinion that stimu- 
lants and narcotics — tea, coffee, tobacco, and alcohol 
— were best left alone. We " can get nothing in this 
life without paying for it in one w^ay or another." 
" Though tobacco is less destructive than alcohol, still, 
whether it is smoked or chewed, it has an extremely 
harmful effect upon men who are engaged in severe 
physical exertion," badly affecting digestion, strength, 
nervous power, endurance, and tenacity of purpose. ^^ 

Nansen is a first-rate observer, and there can be no 
doubt of his facts in this matter. The recently acquired 
habits of continual use of tobacco, tea, etc., go a very 
long way to explain the physical and mental defects 
of our time, and the growing deficiency of great men. 
And the weakened digestion and nerve power, with 
the continual internal irritation of excessive uric acid 
and other toxic products of improper or excessive 
food, must be accountable for a very great deal of the 
increase of liability to cancer. 

Probably the high mortality from cancer in Scan- 
dinavia is largely due to the extraordinary amount 
of coffee consumed, in addition to the increase of other 
articles of diet, such as flesh and sugar. I find in a 
recent official account of Sweden,^" published by order 
of the Government, that " the use of coffee has very 
greatly increased, especially of late years, and our 
population must now be one of those most addicted to 
coffee-drinkino:." In North Sweden this is often carried 
to excess, especially by women. " The consumption 



524 STRENGTH AND DIET 

of sugar has increased enormously." The consumption 
of flesh — 28 kilog. — is about the European average, 
but there is in addition a very large consumption of 
fish and cheese amonsj certain classes. 

The following table shows the increases per head 
in several articles : — 



SuEfar. Tobacco. Beer. 



Coffee 
(hectograms). 

1861-70 . 17-3 4-87 713 11 

1871-80 . 23-3 7-63 976 16-8 

1881-90 . 30-4 10-57 9-72 21-8 

1891-95 . 34-5 16-08 10-53 27-6 

1896-1900 48-1 18-48 11-27 33-4 

These figures strike me as very remarkable, and of 
great significance in relation to disease. 

In Davidson's Pathological Dictionary it is stated 
that cancer is very prevalent in Norway ; in the 
district of Hamar the rate was about 10 "6 in 1886 ; 
that in Germany it is excessively fatal in Schleswig, 
Stralsund, and Liineburg, — least in the eastern dis- 
tricts of Marienwerder, Bromberg, Posen, and Oppeln. 
Liineburg is near Hamburg, Schleswig is north of 
Holstein (Danish race), and Stralsund on the North 
Sea, about one hundred miles north of Berlin, I have 
no special information as to the diet in these places. 
The other districts named, where cancer was low, are 
far east of Berlin, and in these parts the fare is 
generally comparatively jjoor. 

Davidson observes that cancer is much more fatal 
in North than in South Italy. The diet in the former 
is richer, and includes more stimulants and flesh. 

In the New Zealand Oflicial Year-Book it appears 
that "cancer has grown very rapidly from 2 '6 9 in 



DIET IX RELATION TO DISEASE d-2d 

1881 to G-09 in 1899." Though the rate is not equal 
to that of England or France, its rapid increase makes 
it "most alarming." We must remember that New 
Zealand is a healthy country, with plenty of space, no 
horrible conditions of overcrowding, and a population 
where the young are numerous. Tlie stomach is the 
organ most attacked in males, and, to about the same 
extent, the mouth, lips, tongue, and throat together. 
Next in frequency come the liver, intestines, and 
rectum. Females are much less attacked in parts 
about the mouth, — only 6 to every 31 males. 

I could see no reason for the prevalence of cancer 
among the backwoodsmen of North America, as men- 
tioned by Dr. Wolff " The disease," he says, " is 
extremely prevalent in the timber districts of the 
United States and Norway, as well as the wooded 
parts of Switzerland." {Nineteenth Century and 
After.) The other day, however, I happened to read, 
in a lively account of the backwoods of Canada, ^^ by 
Mr. Arthur P. Silver, that the lumbermen maintain 
their remarkable powers on buckwheat cakes, served 
with molasses, potato pies, baked beans, white bread, 
pork, and bacon ; so far good, but that " tea, black as 
iiih, sweetened with molasses of sugar-house syrup, is 
nlways near the fire by day and by night, and is used 
in vast (j^iantities." Here we have the rich nutriment 
and the great excess of stewed tea and the excess of 
sugar, corresponding to the excessive beer and excessive 
cotfee of parts of Holland, Scandinavia, Switzerland, 
Baden, and Bavaria, in all of which cancer is exceed- 
ingly prevalent. Dr. Woltf seems to attribute some 
influence to tlie forests, Ijut we have to consider the 
habits of the people. Ticino, in Switzerland, he says, 



526 STRENGTH AND DIET 

is deforested, and Dalmatia has no forest, and in both 
these districts the rate is low. 

Dr. Wolff observes that the death-rate from cancer 
amono- domestic servants in the United States between 
forty-five and sixty-five is double, and above sixty-five, 
three times the average. These, too, probably consume 
large quantities of tea and coffee, and have many 
irregular meals. 

The backwoodsmen and the domestic servants lead 
a very different kind of life. But they are alike in 
eating and drinking largely of nutritious and stimulant 
substances, and the etfect on the servants of a smaller 
quantity may be equal to the effect of the larger 
quantity on those whose toil is more severe. 

The chief conditions for enabling cancer to start in 
most cases seem to ))e over-nutrition and toxines. 

Sir William Banks, in the course of an exhaustive 
series of lectures before the Medical Society of London 
(see Lancet, 10th March 1900), said that the most 
numerous victims of cancer were " well-nourished 
persons, with plenty of beef and fat about them, and 
often with a fine healthy colour in their cheeks. . . . 
The better the nutrition the more deadly and rapidly 
sjrowingj is the cancer. . . . The increased waeres and 

o o o 

emoluments of all classes in this country have enabled 
freely to purchase of the best there is to be had. . . . 
Our better classes eat infinitely too much, especially 
of animal food, partaken of at breakfast, lunch, and 
dinner." Over forty-five, "excess in food is perhaps 
worse than excess in drink." Too much nourishino- food 
produces a widely spread secondary kind of gout ; " I 
think distinctly that it has also to do with the produc- 
tion of the cancerous diathesis." Amongst the highest 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 527^ 

mortality rates are tliose for coachmen, commercial 
travellers, grooms, merchant seamen, maltsters,. 
brewers, innkeepers, l)utchers, and plumbers. 

On examining the Report of the London County 
Council, a most elaborate volume, I find that in 1902 
the following districts had per 100,000 a maximum 
rate for cancer : — City, 74 ; Westminster, Marylebone,. 
and Hackney, each 51 ; then Stoke Newington, Holborn, 
and Shoreditch somewhat less. Those with the lowest 
rate were — Bethnal Green, 18; Southwark, 20; Hamp- 
stead, 29 ; then Fulham, Bermondsey, and Poplar. 

For carcinoma the highest rates were — City, 70 ^ 
Hampstead, 69 ; Bethnal Green, 58 ; Bermondsey, 55 :; 
Southwark, 58 ; Lewisham, 59 ; St. Pancras, 56 ; 
Paddington, 50 ; Marylebone, 53. The lowest rates 
were — Hackney, 32 ; Stoke Newington, 35 ; Hammer- 
smith, 39 ; Woolwich, 40 ; Kensington, 41. 

There is no clear preponderance of incidence on the 
rich, but it is remarkable that the City is highest 
in each list, and Westminster next in cancer alone. 
Hampstead, a healthy place, is higher than Bethnal 
Green in the two forms taken together, and iNlaryle- 
boue higher than Southwark. Probably a similar 
examination forty years ago would have shown a more 
decisive majority of cases for the rich quarters. The 
amount of flesh and tea consumed by rich and indus- 
trial districts is now more nearly equal. 

In sarcoma, of which the cases were much less 
numerous, the City, Hampstead, and Lambeth were 
highest, and Fulham, Stoke Newington, AVoolwich, and 
Finsbury lowest. 

The excess of cancer over the average of the 
previous ten years in London was 608. 



528 STRENGTH AND DIET 

If we turn to the Report of the Committee of the 
Statistical Society, read in November 1903, we may 
note that the yearly consumption of butcher's meat 
in the United Kingdom was — for the upper classes, 
5 "77 lb. ; for the middle, 3"5 ; for the lower middle, 
2'35 ; for artisans, mechanics, and labourers, 2*06. 
Artisans and labourers consumed 107 lb. per annum, 
farm labourers only 55. There would be rather less 
difference in the consumption of tea per family in a 
comparison of town artisans and country labourers. 

Cancer and gout appear to be less common in work- 
houses and institutions where diet is regulated than in 
the home. Professor Clifford Allbutt stated in the 
Lancet (1902 or 1903) that old people have often very 
calcareous blood-vessels, but reach a very great age. 
After forty a man should carefully control his appetite ; 
" most men eat and drink far more than they need for 
the day's work. Rigorous restriction for the remainder 
of life is required as soon as high blood-pressure 
becomes manifest ; if treated early, such cases are 
commonly curable." 

In the just issued official " Correspondence relating 
to Cancer Research, 1905," in connection with the 
Cancer Research Fund, I find these particulars : — 

Gibraltar. — Dr. William Turner, surgeon. Colonial 
Hospital, reports : The number of persons above thirty- 
five in Gibraltar is 8363 ; the deaths in 1903 were 5. 
In males, the lips and tongue are most affected ; in 
females, the uterus and breast. Predisposing causes 
appear to be tobacco-smoking in males and premature 
child-bearing in females. " The Spaniard's cigarette 
or cigar is never absent from his lips if he can help 
it," and he allows them to burn close to his lips. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 529 

Zomha, Central Africa. — Natives much less liable 
apparently than Western Europeans. 

St. Helena. — Three or four yearly out of 3000 
or 4000. 

Falkland Isles. — No deaths for many years. 

Fast Africa Protectorate. — Nairobi — Rare. 
Uganda — Not rare. Mombasa — None in eight years. 
— (Dr. Macdonald.) Lamu — None seen. Kisumu — 
One seen in two and a half years. — (Dr. Wiggins.) 
Very rare. — (Dr. Mann.) Mombasa — None seen. — (Dr. 
Johnson.) Kismayu — One seen. 

Jubcdand. — In two years no case seen, except some 
doubtful. 

Mauritius. — Much rarer than in England. Twenty 
out of 1777 deaths. 

Barbadoes. — One in 35 of total deaths. 
\_Common.'\ 

Transvaal. — In the hospitals named by Lord 
Milner, of 5763 Europeans treated 43 were cancerous, 
of 3815 natives 10 were cancerous. 

Castries, Windivard Islands. — Apparently rather 
common. 

St. Lucia. — Rather rare. 

Vieux Fort. — Rare. 

Ceylon. — About one death in 460 deaths is from 
cancer. 



Ratio — Sinhalese 

Tamils and Malabars 
Moors 
Burghers 
Malays 
Europeans . 
34 



1 in 15,855 
1 in 13,996 
1 in 76,011 
1 in 7,827 
1 in 5,951 
1 in 6,300 



530 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Relationship in provinces — 

Western . 1 in 9,590 Eastern . 1 in 86,801 

Central . 1 in 19,776 N.-AVestern . 1 in 70,725 

Northern . 1 in 10,027 Uva . . 1 in 10,370 

Southern . 1 in 2,024 Subaragamuwa 1 in 35,760 

It appears that cancer is more than forty times as 
common in the Southern as in the Eastern Provinces, 
and more than thirty times as common as in the 
North- Western Province. 

In Ceylon altogether 1 in 16,820 persons in 1903 
died of cancer ; 1 in 4422 cases of diseases in hospitals 
was cancer. 

It is associated usually with the parts about the 
mouth. " This may be due to chewing betel" (tobacco, 
betel leaves, areca nut, and slaked lime). They also 
eat curry flavoured with hot chillies. 

The people of the Northern Province are great betel- 
chewers, and men and women smoke very strong 
tobacco, smoking cigars to the burning end. — 
(Dr. Perry.) 

Fiji. — Rather rare. 

In Degama. — None. 

Southern Nigeria. — Rare. One case at 7/bn : 
woman who lived on yam dough, with strong cayenne 
and oklas sauce. 

Gold Coast. — Very rare. In colony proper, two 
cases ; all over the protectorate none found in ten 
years, nor in Ashanti and northern territories. 

Queensland. — In ten years no case seen among 
aboriginals. 

Lagos, 1 in 14,090 persons : very rare in West 
Africa ; not common in West Indies. Twenty-two 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 531 

cases ill 310,000 natives, or less. Very rare among 
natives far from Europeans. 

In every case which I have been able to investigate, 
I find that the increase of cancer in a country has been 
preceded by an increase in the amount of flesh, and of 
tea or coffee consumed, and often of beer and tobacco 
also. Thus, in Austria, the consumption of flesh and 
tobacco has increased, and of beer (according to a note 
in the Society of Arts Journal, Oct. 23, 1903) from 
133,000,000 gallons in 1855 to 337,000,000 in 1873, 
and 556,000,000 in 1902. There are cases of flesh- 
eating nations having a low rate, but there is no case 
of a low rate among people using the other articles 
largely. 

I do not think an exception can be found, at any 
rate, to the rule of increase with increased use of tea 
or coftee. 

Moreover, wherever I have known that the rate of 
cancer was high, I have expected to find a large con- 
sumption of coffee, tea, or beer, in addition to animal 
food, and the expectation has been fulfilled. On the 
other hand, where I have known that the consumption 
of these articles was large or small, I have expected 
and found a large or small cancer mortality. This 
verification of jDrediction based on contributed ex- 
perience is a good test of the correctness of a theory. 

The same principle of prediction and verification 
has been applied to classes and communities within 
a country, with almost the same correspondence of 
results. 

The conclusions arrived at may be set forth par- 
ticularly as follows : — 

1. Every country where flesh, or animal products 



532 STRENGTH AND DIET 

rich in proteid, such as cheese, are very largely used 
in conjunction with tea, coffee, or narcotics, is subject 
to a laro[e amount of cancer. 

2. Every country not using flesh meat, tea, coffee, 
beer, etc., habitually has little cancer or none. 

3. Of any country, any part which uses much less 
flesh, and tea or coffee, than other parts has a much 
lower rate of cancer. 

4. Of any country, every part which uses a 
maximum amount of flesh, and of tea or coftee, has a 
very high rate of cancer. 

5. The increase of cancer in every European and 
American community has followed an increase of the 
consumption of flesh, and especially of tea or coffee, 
and in many cases of beer also. 

6. ^n every colony or native State, any negro or 
native race adopting European diet becomes subject 
to a o;reat increase of cancer. 

7. There is no instance, apparently, of a life- 
abstinent community formed out of, and residing 
within, a non-abstinent community, not having a much 
lower rate of cancer than those outside it. 

8. The amount of rich and proteid food, and the 
amount of theine, caffeine, alcoholic, uric acid-forming, 
and other poisonous matter, consumed by the middle- 
aged man or woman of to-day in modern States is very 
much larger than the amount required or disposable 
by the body ; in many cases the daily amount of 
albuminous food is four to six times the physiologically 
appropriate maximum, and of sugary alcohol, tea, 
coffee, etc., ten to twenty times what a dose would be 
if used as a medicinal drug, or what has been customary 
in Eastern lands, where experience has been longer. 



DIET IN RELATION TO DISEASE 533 

9. The observations of physicians show that cancer 
is most common among highly nourished, robust- 
looking persons. Women living on bread and much 
tea, and subject to worry, are also predisposed. 

10. Cancer is most common, casteris paribus, in 
those occupations involving exposure to certain irri- 
tating materials, both without and within the body. 

11. Cancer is most apt to attack constitutions 
affected by rheumatism or heart weakness. Coffee, 
tea, beer, and tobacco in excess all produce rheumatism 
and heart weakness. 

12. A light diet is best in cancer cases ; this tends 
to show, as the alleviations of many diseases do, the 
means of prevention as well as of mitigation. 

13. Statistics* give evidence that the following 
diseases, besides cancer and rheumatism, have in- 
creased in England since 1850-54 : — Diseases of heart, 
brain, kidneys, and liver. 

JYote. — Some unwelcome repetition in the above chapter may deserve 
reproof, but I was anxious to give the statements of different authorities 
as distinctl}' as possible in a matter of this gravity. 

Further observations on cancer and other diseases of civilisation will 
be found in the Supplementary Chapter. 



Studies in Statistics. Loni'statt'. 



I 



CHAPTER XII 

Diet in Relation to Athletics and Training 

The general principles of training and of attaining 
muscular streno-th are well known and described in 
many excellent handbooks. A rather monotonous 
diet, largely of flesh, was formerly recommended, but 
certain rules for attaining high efficiency, with or 
without flesh, wine, or beer, are now established. In 
fact, the most recent evidence, both of the scientific 
physiological value of various foods and of the actual 
performances of competitors, seems to incline the 
balance on the side of abstinence from both alcohol 
and flesh. 

The athletic feats performed by vegetarians are so 
remarkable that they appear to prove, by themselves 
alone, a very decided increase of physical power, by the 
mere substitution of several kinds of nutriment from 
plants for the animal products which are so much 
relied on in the greater part of Europe and North 
America. 

The result seems to be owing, first, to the elimina- 
tion from the body of matter contained in animal flesh, 
which has the qualities of a continual poisonous or 
irritating ingredient foreign to the healthy constitution ; 
and secondly, to the actual fitness and strengthening 
qualities of the plant products for the human body. 

534 



J- 

1 



ATHLETICS AND TRAINING 535 

This explanation is confirmed by the common 
experience of hard workers who adopt a well-chosen 
vegetarian diet, of an increase of health, strength, and 
enjoyment, indicating appropriateness of the ingesta to 
their constitution for the full development of energy. 

The success of vegetarians in the field of athletics 
is the more remarkable for this reason, that several of 
the winners were, before their change of diet, either ill 
or far from strong, and would not even have been 
considered " in the running " if they had lived in the 
ordinary way. 

And if we estimate the proportion of possible 
competitors from the vegetarians of England or of 
Germany, we shall find it very small indeed compared 
with the possible competitors from the multitude of 
well-trained and well-fed carnivors. Probably there 
are not more than ten or twelve vegetarians to a 
thousand flesh-eaters of the class who go in for 
athletics. Yet we have this astonishing result, that 
in several contests — in walking, in cycling, in tennis 
or racquets — the vegetarians have easily won, or have 
beaten all previous records. And where there has 
been a certain lot of vegetarians and another lot of 
flesh-eaters, it has happened, at least once, that the 
first five in a race have been vegetarians and nearly all 
the last flesh-eaters. 

The instances now given are only the most 
prominent examples which have been published in 
the last few years. 

In 1893 a seven-days' walking race from Berlin to 
Vienna, 372 miles, was easily won by Herr Elsasser 
(first) and Herr Pietz (second), who beat the fastest 
flesh-eater by no less than twenty-tw^o hours. 



536 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The great Whitsuntide walking race of 1902, from 
Dresden to Berlin, 124 J miles, was attended by- 
eminent scientists and medical men. Karl Mann, as a 
fruitarian, and J. Boege, as a mixed feeder, were put 
on exact dietary for eleven days before the race. 
Mann's diet was biscuit, bread, marmalade, one sort of 
fruit juice, Quaker oats, nut butter, and bromose, and 
measured pure water. The first six men to arrive 
were vegetarians, of the " natural " food system, eating 
little cooked food, but nut preparations to a large 
extent. Mann excluded, from January onwards, not 
only flesh, fowl, fish, alcohol, tea, coffee, cocoa, and 
stimulants, but eggs, milk, cheese, butter, and pulse. 
Nut butter he ate daily 4 oz., and fruit juice called 
weinmost. He had two meals daily. 

There were thirty-two competitors. The first six, 
the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth to arrive were 
vegetarians. The seventh, eighth, and thirteenth were 
flesh-eaters. Mann's time for the 124 J miles was 
26 hrs. 58 mins. ; the time of the seventh was 
34 hrs. 32 mins. Mann was found by the committee 
after the race to be in excellent condition, and was 
kept very busy for the four days following.^ 

In 1898, Mann, winner of the great seventy-mile 
walking race, gave an interviewer the following state- 
ment (abridged here) : "I am twenty-five years old, and 
in the fifth year of vegetarianism. I have been living 
on the raw diet for six weeks. I eat much fresh fruit 
and vegetables. Good milk, too, I find a first-rate 
food. As for wholemeal bread, I eat very little of it. 
In my opinion, we men shut up in offices all day require 
very little nitrogenous food, and what albumen is 
necessary we can get more easily in other ways. I 



ATHLETICS AND TRAINING 537 

take generally three meals a day. You would not 
think that till after my eighteenth year I was 
wretchedly weak, with no energy at all. 1 feel now 
equal to any amount of physical and mental work, and 
am conscious of a kind of superfluity of health. My 
food during the race was fresh fruit, mostly straw- 
berries, lettuces plucked from the field in passing, and 
some bread and milk. This is my first walking match ; 
I have not trained at all with the exception of several 
good walks on Sundays. But I do a good deal of 
dumb-bell and similar exercise. I am a corresponding 
clerk, and am at the desk nine hours a day." In answer 
to a question, he stated that it was decided that he had 
beaten the fifty-six mile record in Germany for road- 
walking without pacemakers by twenty minutes, 
although he had slacked down several times, not 
having any intention of beating records. 

Emil ^lakowski, who came in second, had been a 
vegetarian over four years, was accustomed to simple 
fare, with plenty of fresh fruit, at two meals a day. 
Very little milk as a rule, but during the race two 
glasses of milk and \^ lb. of strawberries. Every two 
or three hours during the race, strawberries and milk." 

Mr. Allen's first long walk of a hundred miles since 
he had become a vegetarian (about three years) was 
accomplished with an ease which surprised him. Later 
he performed his " record " walk, Leicester to London, 
about 100 miles, in 20 hours 22 minutes. Eight weeks 
before this walk, he " went in thoroughly for the open- 
air system of living," and subsisted on a very light fare 
of vegetables, bread, oatmeal, and a little fruit. He 
finished the race in a remarkably fresh condition, 
without blisters. Mr. Allen observes that Mr. Olley, 



538 STRENGTH AND DIET 

the cyclist, who was only an ordinarily speedy man 
when he ate flesh, soon became a record breaker after 
discarding it ; that Karl Mann established many records ; 
that Miss Rosa Symonds rode her bicycle ninety-eight 
miles a day for eighteen and a half consecutive days ; 
and Mr. Eustace Miles attained several racquet and 
tennis championships, on the non-flesh dietary.^ [In 
the summer of 1902 Mr. Miles, for the fourth time in 
succession, obtained the Amateur Tennis Championship 
of England, beating his challenger by 6-2, 6-0, 6-2, in 
three sets. In the walking race won by Karl Mann 
the German Government sent medical representatives 
to be in constant attendance on the competitors before, 
durinoj, and after the race, with a view to obtaininsr 
accurate information. Nothing of the kind is done by 
the British Government.] 

In 1902 Mr. Allen said that he gave up athletic 
exercises some time ago, but, being twitted with not 
doing athletic performances since he became a vegetarian, 
he set himself to walk a hundred miles. Previously his 
farthest walk without a rest had been fifty miles. 
Though he had no time to train properly, he now 
walked a hundred miles without inconvenience. Up to 
sixteen he had been extremely weak and sickly. He 
determined to alter his mode of livino^, having^ heard 
the doctor say he could never get strong. He then 
gave up alcohol. Vegetarian diet led to a healthier 
and better life.* 

A very remarkable walking performance was accom- 
plished last September.^ On 29th August 1904, at 
5 a.m., Mr. Allen started from Land's End Hotel, and 
at 2.33 a.m. on 17th September entered the hotel at 
John o' Groats, having completed 90 8^ miles in 16 



ATHLETICS AND TRAINING 539 

days 21 hours 33 minutes. He did not walk on the 
two Sundays. His average mileage was 53 a day ; in 
the first week he did 4^5^ a day, in the second week 53. 
On Monday, 12th, he walked from Glasgow to Perth, 
60^ miles, on Tuesday 56|- miles. In the last five 
days the enormous average of 63 a day was attained, 
and in the last two days 140 miles were covered. He 
finished in splendid physical condition. 

The best previous record was actually heaten by 
seven days ! 

Mr. H. Light maintains that there is no cycling 
club in the United Kingdom, having only the numerical 
racing strength of the Vegetarian Cycling Club, which 
can even come near its brilliant results. 

Geo. A. Olley, at eighteen, had gained thirty-two 
prizes. He raced at but one of the fourteen meetings 
without success. He out-sprinted the sprinters at 
such a distance as the one mile championship of the 
Southern Counties Union — a most remarkable feat for 
a man holding the twenty-four hours' record. 

In 1899 E. P. Walker won the one hundred 
miles championship and £25 challenge shield of 
the Yorkshire Road Club. He won twenty prizes, 
and made records in several races. He is a life 
vegetarian. 

Kurt Pfleiderer and Eric Newman, both life 
vegetarians, fourteen and fifteen years old, completed 
— the former a paced 100 miles on the London-Bath 
road, in rather unfavourable weather, in 6 hrs. 17g min.; 
and the latter an unpaced 100 miles on Gloucestershire 
roads in 6 hrs. 40 min. 

J. E. Newman, life vegetarian, at first attempt, 
175|- miles unpaced in 12 hrs. 



540 STRENGTH AND DIET 

T. H. Schultess Young, 100 miles, Bath road, in 
5 hrs. 23 min., 1898. The last 60 miles against con- 
tinuous wind and rain. 

And there are many other similar performances. 

Charles Miller, the world's long-distance cycling 
champion, has for several years past proved himself 
invincible (1899); he never touches flesh food imme- 
diately before and during races. His trainer is a 
vegetarian. 

o 

Eustace Miles, in 1899 amateur tennis and amateur 
racquet champion, tennis gold medallist 1897-98-99, 
holds the amateur tennis championship of America, and 
amateur racquet championship of Canada. Is classical 
honours coach at Cambridge University.*^ 

Records of Notable Performances. — Bicycle. — The 
en-route "flying start" mile was covered in 1 min. 
2b^ sees, (record) by G. A. Olley, 1903. 
The one-hour record, 25 to 35 miles. 
In 1900 the world's record for one mile amateur 
unpaced, 2 min. 7i sees. (So far as is known, only one 
British amateur has surpassed this.) 

London to Brighton and back, tricycle, paced, 
J. Parsley, 1898, 6 hrs. 18 min. 28 sees. (R.R.A. record). 
Bicycle. — 100 miles, S. R.R.A. course, C A. Olley, 
1901, 5 hrs. 44 min. 7\ sees.; best time by a licensed 
amateur over this course. Bicycle, twenty-four hours, 
on ivesteim roads, 3l7f miles. 

Amateur tennis championship, Eustace Miles, 1903 
— fifth time. 

Miss M. A. Scott (vegetarian while training, occa- 
sionally eats fish when not training), ladies' amateur 
swimming championship and record for 100 yards, in 
85r sees., and 66 yards in 55 sees. 



ATHLETICS AND TRAINING 541 

Walking. — W. de Creux Hutchison, Dover to 
London, 72 miles, 14 hrs. 19 miu. 40 sees. 

H. E. Biyning, in 1899, beat all Lidian records, 

1 to 24 miles.' 

Mr. Olley rode from London to Edinburgh, on 
October 21-22, in 52 min. less than the record time, 
in spite of a fall from sideslip, by which his arm was 
sprained and his hand cut. The roads were bad for a 
great part of the way, and the wind was contrary. 
344j miles w^ere covered in twenty-four hours. The 
start was made from London General Post Office at 

2 p.m., on 21st October; the finish at Edinburgh at 
5.11 p.m. on 22nd October — 382 miles in 27 hrs. 11 min.^ 

Mr. J. Miller of Larkhall, an enthusiastic vegetarian, 
walked in October from Carlisle to Glasgow — 95 miles — 
in twenty-two hours. He carried his food with him — 
raisins, dates, nuts, etc.^ 

On 16th September, J. Parsley and F. Beaver broke 
and now hold the world's amateur tandem records from 
1 to 5 miles. 

On 27th June 1896, J. Parsley won the Catford 
hill-climbing contest, open to all comers. 

On 13th August, E. P. Walker finished first in a 
10 miles team race between all the road clubs in the 
Hull district. 

C. G. won the 100 miles chamj^ionship of the 
Vegetarian C.C. on Catford track in 4 hrs. 30 min. 
50 sees., and A. R. Wyatt finished in 4 hrs. 39 min. 

J. Barclay won the half-mile Scottish championship 
in foot races, and won during the year eleven firsts, 
seven seconds, and five thirds, including distances 
from 200 yards to 10 miles. His fastest mile was 
done in 4 min. 24| sees. 



542 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The French long distance cycling champion, Huret, 
rode 545 miles in twenty-four hours in 1896 on the 
Paris winter track. Eate 22 miles an hour from start 
to finish. His food during the contest consisted of 
thirty eggs, three quarts of boiled rice and milk, a 
quantity of tapioca, chocolate and fruit, wine, and 
Vichy water. ^ 

On 4th April 1904, the outfitters' annual walk 
took place. The course was London to Brighton — 52^ 
miles. The winner walked the distance in 9 hrs. 
24|- min., doing the last five miles in 51 min. 45 sees. 
He is a vegetarian. He had little opportunity for 
systematic training, being employed till 8 p.m. Through 
a misunderstanding he had to walk his first 25 miles 
without food.^° 

A cyclist of seventy-eight wrote in the Lancet of 
23rd August 1900 : " I am much interested in advanc- 
ing the cause of total abstinence from [flesh] meat, 
alcohol, and tobacco. ... I have just returned from 
riding to Edinburgh and back on my tricycle." The 
time occupied was thirty-one days from London to 
Edinburgh and back ; his weight was 116 lb. both at 
the start and at the finish. ^^ 

Dr. Harris, at eighty, rode his tricycle from London 
to Bath, 106 miles, in one day. Mr. Allen walked 
from Bedford to Leicester and back, 100 miles, in 
22 hrs. 23 min. Mr. J. E. Newman, a life vegetarian, 
rode 175:1- miles unpaced in 12 hours. ^^ 

A writer of notes on football says : " The amateur 
champion of the world at racquets simply refuses to 
train on any flesh foods. Few understand the body- 
building basis of plasmon, despite the fact that its 
praise has been so loudly sung by that sterling all- 



i 

I 



ATHLETICS A^B TRAINING 543 

round athlete, C. B. Fry. This, combined with cheese, 
nuts, and grain foods, would form a sound basis of 
diet, and fruits and salads being added, fatigue would 
soon become a thing of the past." ^^ 

A local unpaced record, Bath to London and back, 
was reduced by three hours in November by Mr. J. 
Britton, a vegetarian. Two hundred and sixteen miles 
were done in 14f hours, on a first attempt, with heavy 
roads. The rider appeared none the worse next 
morn in or. ^"^ 

The light-weight boxing champion of the United 
States, Kid Parker, has dispensed with flesh altogether. 
" Since that time," he whites, " I have been a strict 
vegetarian, and have been rewarded in more ways than 
one. I have gained in mental power and increased my 
physical endurance. The increased clearness of intellect 
is unmistakable, and I believe I am a better man in every 
way, physically, mentally, and morally." ^^ 

Mr. Sampson, the " strongest man," would advise no 
particular dietary ; he would exclude from the diet of 
persons inclined to corpulency much of the common 
starchy and fatty foods, such as potatoes and butter, 
which may well form the diet of persons inclined to be 
thin. " Pies and such trash are equally poisonous to 
every class of person that seeks to acquire strength." 
" Tobacco in any form is injurious." It weakens the 
heart's power, and spoils digestion. He strongly 
deprecates the use of stimulants between meals, ^' 

Madrali, a great Turkish wrestler, has no special 
diet or training. He eats plenty of meat, rice, and 
bread ; and is a total abstainer, but smokes a little.^" 
Hackenschmidt, his antagonist, eats plain meat and 
plenty of eggs, is fond of sugar, a total abstainer, and 



544 STRENGTH AND DIET 

never smokes. Both men say they find English 
wrestlers weak.^' 

At the annual meeting and contest between the 
" London Central," the " Shepherd's Bush," and " Vege- 
tarian " Cycling Clubs, the Vegetarian in the three- 
mile inter-team race took first and second positions in 
one heat, first and third in the next, besides securing 
both half-lap prizes. 

A noted cyclist, practically vegetarian for fifteen 
years, has ridden during sixteen years about 73,600 
miles. 

The following narrative appears in the ninth edition 
of the Encyclopcedia Britannica, article " Dietetics " : — 
" In addition to diet made in consequence of additional 
bodily work, not only should the stimulus of animal 
food be attended to, but the bulk of starch and fat in 
the rations should be augmented even in larger pro- 
portion, for these aliments are the most direct contri- 
butors of force. 

This is well illustrated by a remarkable feat per- 
formed on the Great Western Kailway in the summer 
of 1872, It was necessary to shift the rails from the 
broad to the narrow gauge on u^^wards of five hundred 
miles of permanent way within a fortnight. The task 
was enormous, for the Great Western is one of the few 
English lines whose rails are held down by bolts 
screwed into nuts. All these had to be unscrewed 
and replaced after removing the heavy rail two feet. 
About three thousand men were employed, working 
double time, sometimes from four in the morning till 
nine at night ; and, without one sick or drunk, they 
accomplished the work within the prescribed time. 
The scheme for generating muscular power was this : 



ATHLETICS AND TRAINING 545 

The men were hutted along the line, so as not to waste 
their strength by coming and going, and they brought 
with them bacon, bread, cheese, cocoa, etc., to provide 
their usual meals at usual times. But they had no 
beer nor alcohol in any form. A pound and a half of 
oatmeal and half a pound of sugar were allowed .extra 
to each man daily, and for every gang of twenty-one 
a cook was provided. Oatmeal was sprinkled with 
sugar and thoroughly boiled till thin gruel was made. 
Buckets were filled and carried round when the men 
called for this drink. They liked it exceedingly." 

Mr. Miles gives the following testimony to the 
power of diet of the appropriate kind, to develop 
physical energy : — 

" Then I tried the simpler of fleshless foods. 
Before long, away went my headaches, my tiredness 
after hard exercise, my constipation, and the symptoms 
of albuminuria. . . . My skill increased, my activity 
and litheness increased, my food expenses went down. 
... I felt more inclined to work. In fact, since 
then I have worked incessantly. Above all, I was, 
and am, as near being happy as ever I. expect to be. 

"For over four years I have lived almost without 
llesh ; when I have returned to it, partly as an experi- 
ment, and partly owing to exhaustion (for I used 
every now and then to take too little proteid, through 
ignorance), back have come all my old symptoms. . . . 
Back comes the likino: for alcohol." 

The simpler foods are : good bread, peas, lentils, 
cheese, milk and proteid from milk, nuts, fruit, etc. 
Mr. Miles advises abstinence from mere luxuries, such 
as tea and cofFee.^^ 



60 



CHAPTER XIII 

The Prevalence of Adulteration — Importance of 

Pure Food 

The extent to which articles of food and drink are 
subject to adulteration fails to be generally realised. 
As a matter of fact, from the infant's bottle of milk 
to the common fare of the working population, and 
the dainties of the invalid, there are few supplies 
coming by the way of trade which are not more or 
less frequently manipulated or depreciated in value by 
sophistication. 

The following quotations from Official Reports are 
instructive : — 

" Report of the Departmental Comnnittee on the Use 
of Preservatives and Colouring Matters in Food. 
With Evidence of Wit^iesses. London : 1901. 

" The principal antiseptic agents at present em- 
ployed are boric or boracic acid and borates (so-called 
boron preservatives), sulphurous acid and sulphites, 
fluorides, salicylic acid, benzoic acid or benzoates, 
and formalin or formaldehyde. The benzoates and 
fluorides are very little used. 

" The boron preservatives are largely used for 
dairy produce, margarine, ham, bacon, sausages, and 
preserved meat foods, and less commonly in beverages. 

546 



PREVALENCE OF ADULTERATION 547 

" Salicylic acid is employed chiefly in beverages, 
wines, beers, ciders, and temperance drinks, and in 
foods derived from fruit, such as jams and jellies. 

" Formalin is used chiefly for milk ; it is a very 
potent and poisonous substance. Even when com- 
parativel}^ dilute it has a remarkable efl'ect upon animal 
tissue. 

" Sulphites are used by brewers, butchers, and 
poultry and game dealers. 

"Of 110 farmers and dairymen who replied to 
inquiries, 65 admitted the use of preservatives. In 
at least 13 cases the basis was boric acid, two were 
formalin, the rest were salt, saltpetre, and other un- 
known substances. 

" It appears that at large butter factories in Ireland, 
Australia, Canada, France, and other countries it is 
the practice to add at least half per cent., that is 1 lb. 
to every 200 lb. Ham and bacon from Canada are 
largely drugged." 

The following table, abbreviated from the Official 
Report, summarises the chief articles treated with 
preservatives, and the percentage of cases in which 
preservative 'was used in each class of food 
examined : — 



Mi]k. 
Cream 
Butter 
Margarine 
Bacon 
Ham . 
Sausages 
Potted meats 
Pork pies . 



Per cent. 




Per cent 


18-2 


Jam . 


440 


77-9 


Lime and lemon juice 


88 -.5 


57-1 


Cordials 


70-8 


74-4 


Fruit syrups- 


65-2 


70-5 


Temperance drinks 


26-1 


82-7 


Imported beers . 


39-0 


66-4 


Wines and beers 


31-2 


53-3 


Soups 


16-3 


70-8 


Sauces 


20-0 



548 STRENGTH AND DIET 

One thousand two hundred and forty-seven articles 
contained boron, 320 salicylic, 20 formalin, and 143 
sulphites, out of 1659 preserved samples. A very high 
percentage of preservatives was found in Sheffield, 
54*7 per cent,, and in Leicester 70 per cent. The 
average for the provinces was 46 "9, for London, 42*7. 
The poor and rich districts of London are equally 
treated to preservative additions. 

Butter supplied to hospitals was found medicated 
in nearly every case. 

Temperance beverages are very largely drugged, 
chiefly with salicylic acid and sulphites. 

Milk is much more largely drugged in the summer 
than in the winter. Most potted creams contain boron 
at all seasons. 

In London salicylic acid was found in meat juices, 
syrups, jams, lager beer, wines, British wines, lime 
juice; formaldehyde in milk; boracic acid (100 grains 
in a gallon !) in milk. 

Invalid foods, including peptones, beef jellies, are 
nearly all drugged. 

Boric acid, etc., are sold to farmers and used by 
them ; often the dairyman adds more, and sometimes 
the cook adds some further preservative or improver, 
so that the consumer gets a dose much heavier 
than the doctor would sanction in a special case 
of illness ; and this drugging is not temporary, but 
' continual. 

Colouring matter is very largely employed for dairy 
produce. Coal-tar colours are being substituted for 
vegetable dyes. These are also being very much used 
for confectionery and temperance drinks. Butter from 
Holland, Australia, and the United States is very 



I 
I 



PREVALENCE OF ADULTERATION 549 

commonly coloured. The eftect of coal-tar dyes or 
the human organism is not yet known. 

They are found in hams, fruit, jellies, jams, 
sausages, sugar crystals (for giving fictitious appear- 
ances of origin), sweetmeats, meat foods, dairy 
products (where annatto is not used), margarines, 
sauces. 

Sulphuric acid is used to colour pickled cabbage, 
oxide of iron, etc. to colour sugar-plums ; copper 
sulphate, to colour peas. The Representative of the 
London Chamber of Commerce considered 2 o-rains of 
sulphate per pound of peas the minimum amount 
necessary for the trade. It is astonishing that it 
is considered necessary for a " trade " to add any 
poison whatever to their customers' food. 

As regards preservatives of milk, the prevailing 
opinion of the public analysts was that they should 
be totally prohibited. Some of the medical officers of 
health thought that the persistently high infant 
mortality in summer might be partly explained by 
the increasing use of chemical preservatives. All the 
medical officers were practically unanimous in recom- 
mending the prohibition of all preservatives in milk. 
The burden of proving harmlessness should be upon 
the persons using these drugs. The surgeon of the 
General Hospital at Nottingham, from his experience, 
believed that, taken in daily doses of 10 to 20 grains, 
boracic acid is followed by dyspepsia *' sufficient to 
make life miserable while it lasts." Sir Lauder 
Brunton considered its use injurious in many cases. 
Moreover, the perpetual use of drugs may nearly 
nullify the effect of a similar compound medically 
prescribed. And there are many conditions of the 



550 STRENGTH AND DIET 

system in which these surreptitious drugs are distinctly 
noxious. 

Formalin, by entering into comlnnation with 
proteids, actually deprives the consumer of part of 
the nourishment of his food, and so inflicts a real loss 
upon him. 

" In ordinary life, what actually occurs is the 
simultaneous ingestion of more than one preservative." 
And some persons are extremely sensitive to certain 
drugs such as these preservatives. 

Butter from all countries, exce])t Denmark, fre- 
quently contains boracic acid. 

There is evidence pointing to injurious effects of 
boracised milk upon young children. Sometimes as 
much as 80 grains in the pint is found in London, and 
no doubt elsewhere. 

A very serious bye-effect of using preservatives 
is the neglect to encourage cleanliness from the time 
the milk leaves tlie cow till it reaches the consumer. 

in Denmark the use of all preservatives in milk is 
strictly prohibited. Cooling arrangements are found 
sufficient to preserve the milk in transit. Similar 
means have been found equally effective by certain 
large contractors in England. 

Cream, largely used by invalids, is very generally 
highly drugged ; indeed, the taste of shop cream is 
detestable to a delicate palate. 

The wonderful stupidity of the public (this is 
unofficial) in desiring a vivid green with their vege- 
tables encourages the copper poisoning used for 
peas, etc. The Commissioners are strongly of opinion 
that such poisonous substances should be rigorously 
excluded, that formalin or formaldehyde should be 



j 



JM{K\ ALEXCE OF ADL I/IEUATION 551 

proliiliited aiul salicylic acid limited, that colouring 
or dniiiging milk should be made an offence, that the 
boracic addition to cream and butter should be 
limited, and that preservatives of all kinds should 
be prohibited in articles of diet for infants and 
invalids. 

Interesting evidence was given by many witnesses. 
1 h\ Robinson, member of the Royal College of 
Surgeons, reported the pernicious results of taking 
boracic acid in several cases by healthy persons and 
by invalids, and gave a very strong opinion on the 
encouragement of dirty habits and improper dairy 
conditions by the use of preservatives. The amount 
taken by a baby in one day of boracic acid in milk 
only slightly preservatived would be sufficient greatly 
to disturb its digestive organs. 

Similarly Dr. Winter Blyth stated that he had not 
the slightest doubt that a certain amount of infantile 
diarrhoea, a very fatal disease, is due to the use of 
preservatives. Formalin is a poison and antiseptic, 
and very dangerous as used in milk. 

Nutrition Investigations. U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 1900. 

The Effect of Muscular Work upon the Digesti- 
bility of Food. 1901. 

Nutritive Value of Bread [Investigations on the). 
1900. 

Eggs and tJieir Uses as Food. 1901. 

Food and Drug Adidteration. 1894. 

" That almost every article of food and drink used 
in our country is adulterated to a greater or less 
extent is proved most conclusively by a vast amount 
of information." . . . The ettect of these sophistica- 



552 STRENGTH AND DIET 

tions can be truthfully said to be as broad as the 
continent. " The character of the adulterations is 
chiefly commercial fraud. But ignorance is no excuse 
for the wholesale destruction of life by the addition of 
poisonous pigments to many articles of food, especially 
confectionery, cream, and like articles." There are 
numerous cases of poisoning from eating cream, candies, 
cakes, cheese, pickles, canned goods, etc. Adulteration 
amounts to 1,114,000,000 dollars annually. For 
having health injured or life taken 135,000,000 dollars 
is paid. 

Among adulterations of alcohol are methyl alcohol, 
fusel oil, tannin, boxwood, water, colouring matter, 
burnt sugar ; of gin — turpentine, etc. ; of bread and 
cakes — ammonia (injurious) ; of baking powders — alum ; 
of beer — burnt sugar, quassia, coriander, cayenne pepper, 
soda, salt, salicylic acid, glucose, tobacco, cocculus 
indicus ; of black pepper — a vast variety of refuse ; of 
bread — alum, sulphate of copper, ammonia, rye flour, 
etc.; of butter — oleomargarine, butterine, lard, alkalines, 
beef suet; of candy — tartaric acid, glucose (10 or 20 
per cent.), cotton and olive oil, chrome yellow, soap- 
stone, etc.; of dried apples — zinc and copper weighted 
with water and syrup ; of infant foods — wheat flour, 
etc.; and in milk foods there is often no milk. 

From the Daily Express, March 16 and 19, 1904 — 
A large supplier of milk to provincial towns, when his 
arrangements were found fault with, spoke as follows : 
— " We must not send any more of our milk to our old 
customers, since the place has been condemned. Never 
mind, there is a splendid market in London. It is 
good enough for London." Dr. Newman, medical 
oflicer for Finsbury, says a continual battle is being 



TREVALENCE OF ADULTERATION 553 

fought against typhoid, diphtheria, consumption, and 
scarlet fever ; 300 epidemics of scarlet fever, typhoid, 
and diphtheria have been traced to milk in recent 
years ; and, in addition, countless cases of stomach 
irritation, etc., are due to dirty milk. 

The percentage of adulterated milk has been found 
to be about 10 "3 in tweutv laroe towns, 10 in the rest 
of England and Wales, and 15*6 in London, Of 
eighty-two samples of milk taken on Sundays, 23 "08 
were found to be adulterated. 

Dr. Newman states that there are four opportunities 
of contamination, from (l) the farm, (2) transit, (3) 
after arrival at the depot, (4) the consumer's home. 

INlilk arrives in large quantities about 3 or 4 a.m. 
in London ; at 6 it is at the milkshops. When con- 
sumed, it is at least 12, some is 18, and some 24 hours 
old. Small quantities are sold in shops containing all 
sorts of articles, such as oil, soap, candles, l)acon, 
blacking, toffee, etc. Restrictions are put on English 
farms, says Mv. Kelly, secretary of the Dairy 
Farmers' Association, and not on foreign supplies. Out 
of seventeen foreign samples analysed, fourteen were 
found to be adulterated and only 3 up to the standard. 

From the Herald of Health, Feb. 1903— Formalin 
is largely used for the adulteration of milk. This 
drug is a strong poison, and destroys digestion ; even 
a very small quantity spoils the health of children. 
One drop placed on the hand will take the skin off. 
Mr. Jeed, public analyst for Islington, in his last 
quarterly report describes the adulteration of food in 
his district as appalling, and it is quite as bad in many 
others. 

An expert of New York is reported to have 



554 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



analysed articles in common use there with the 
following result : — 

Breakfast. — Smoked beef, containing borax, stewed 
in cream containing boric acid ; codfish cakes, containing 
borax ; milk, formaldehyde ; maple syrup, glucose pre- 
served tvith std2jhu7^ous acid ; sausages, borax. 

Lunch. — Clam broth, containing borax ; cold 
tongue, fluoride and borax ; jam, salicylic acid ; cider, 
salicylic acid. 

Dinner. — Cocktail, cherry preserved with sulph- 
urous acid ; Hamburger steak, sulphites ; tomato 
catsup, benzoic acid and aniline dyes ; canned corn, 
benzoic acid ; claret, salicylic acid. 

Mr. T. Myddleton Shallcross, an architect, has 
recently contributed articles to the Liverjoool Journal 
of Commerce, asserting roundly that only 1600 samples 
of milk are there analysed, while the city consumes 
11,000,000 gallons per annum. The percentage of 



adulteration detected 

Almonds, ground 


he sta 

. 25-0 


tes as lollows : — 

Margarine . . . . 


9-52 


Black currant wine 


. 50-0 


Milk, new . 


11-18 


Bread and butter 


33-33 


Pepper, black 


100-0 


Buttermilk . 


. 100-0 


Pepper, white 


21-62 


Cream 


. 35-71 


Peas .... 


55-5 


Elderberry squash 


. 100-0 


Raspberry wine . 


50-0 


Ginger, ground and whole 


. 3-7 


Rice, ground 


20-0 


Ginger wine 


. 57-14 


Shrimps, potted . 


33-33 


Jams .... 


. 25-92 


Sweetmeats 


303 


Lard .... 


. 22-72 


Vinegar 


16-6 


Lemon squash 


. 100-0 


Wine, unfermented 


100-0 


Lime juice cordial 


. 60-0 


Zinc ointment 


. 57-14 


Mace, f^round 


. 20-0 







The death-rate of Liverpool, he observes, is not 
only high, but rising. 

At Brentford recently a doctor, in giving evidence 



PREVALENCE OF ADULTERATION 555 

in the case of a dairyman, said that two kittens were 
experimentally fed, one on pure milk, the other on 
milk containing borax. The last died within a mouth, 
the former throve. The dairyman sold milk contain- 
ing 17*7 grains of boracic acid per pint.^ 

In 1903 a farmer was fined £5 for adulteratinof 
milk with formalin, " pronounced by the most dis- 
tinguished men of the day to be a most dangerous 
poison." Such a fine is shamefully inadequate. 

"Temperance" Drinks, and Others. 

A good many " temperance drinks " still contain 
liquor more potent than their name would imply, 
according to the chemist of the Government laboratory. 
Dr. Thorpe, in his newly published Report, states that 
out of 852 samples of "herb beers" and other temper- 
ance beverages, which were analysed in the past year, 
no fewer than 260 contained more than two per cent, 
of proof spirit — the limit above which they cannot be 
sold without an excise licence. Nine samples contained 
over six per cent, of spirit, and one had as much as 
nine per cent. 

Despite the precautions that were taken after the 
" arsenic scare " of a few years ago, the Government 
analysts found that thirty-four out of 1218 samples of 
beer and brewing materials contained enough arsenic 
to be dangerous to health. The brewers were warned 
to destroy the beer or materials from which the samples 
had been taken. Of samples of finished beers, taken 
from publicans, one out of every eight was found to be 
watered. 

Dr. Thorpe's department has to examine many 



556 STRENGTH AND DIET 

kinds of substances, from butter to gold lace, in the 
course of the year. Concerning imported butter, 
he states that the use of boracic preservatives is 
increasing ; over forty-one per cent, of the samples 
last year contained these questionable chemicals, as 
compared with thirty-three per cent, the year before, 
and in the absence of any statute regulating the butter 
trade, nothing can be done. Cheese from the United 
States was found to be labelled as Canadian in twelve 
cases, and Dutch cheese was described as Danish. 
French and Dutch condensed milk was imported as 
Swiss milk. Some of the Dutch samples were made 
from skimmed milk, and their importers were pro- 
secuted and convicted. 

Again, of two samples of imported coffee, one was 
found to be nearly half chicory and the other was all 
chicory. An imported " coffee essence," on analysis, 
proved to be merely burnt sugar. Goods imported 
as " chinaware," "lace," "linen manufactures," and 
"perfumery" turned out to be ethyl chloride, collodin, 
spirit, and caramel respectively.^ 



CHAPTER XIV 
Supplementary 

The very remarkable results of experimental investiga- 
tions on Physiological Economy in Nutrition, by 
Russell H. Chittenden, Ph.D., LL.D., Sc.D., Director 
of" the Sheffield School of Yale University, have just 
been published. 

A number of instances are given showing how 
health and strength have been recorded by careful 
physiologists as maintained on a much smaller diet 
and much smaller proteid weight in the diet than has 
generally been assumed as necessary. 

Thus a vegetarian examined by Voit lived very 
well on a purely vegetable diet, with 8 '2 grms. of 
nitrogen. 

Similar results were found in California, by Jaffa, 
with fruitarians and nutarians (1901-1902, United 
States Department of Agriculture). 

Professor Chittenden's experiments were made with 
five university professors and instructors, thirteen 
volunteers of the hospital corps of the army, and eight 
students, thoroughly trained athletes. 

The author had himself previously made experi- 
ments on himself, reducing his diet gradually to a 
large extent. His health improved ; a rheumatic joint 
got well permanently ; headaches and bilious attacks 

557 



558 STRENGTH AND DIET 

ceased altogether. Either no breakfast, or a very 
slight one, a fairly sul)stantial lunch at midday, and a 
light supper answered very well. With diminished 
proteid there is increased vigour. 

The Voit standard [probably this is not above the 
customary physiological estimate] required 118 grms. 
of proteid food daily, of which 105 grms. should be 
absorbable to maintain nitrogen equilibrium, physical 
vigour, and general tone. The new experiments showed 
that one-third of this amount was sufficient ; indeed, 
physical and mental efficiency were at their best. 
Physical work in the case of the author was moderate, 
and hard work would doubtless require more food. 

" Physical economy in nutrition is easily attainable, 
and does not involve the adoption of vegetarianism. 
It does, however, mean temperance and simplicity in 
diet," . . . which eventually becomes a habit and 
satisfies appetite. 

In his general summary of the results of these most 
thorough and valuable experiments, Mr. Chittenden 
concludes that young and vigorous men, accustomed 
to athletics and muscular work, can satisfy all the 
physiological needs on a quota of proteid in their diet 
equal to one-half or one-third of that commonly 
consumed by men of that stamp. The reduction was 
accompanied by a decided increase of muscular power 
at the end of the nine months, 

" The athlete, as well as the less active man, or the 
professional man, can meet all his ordinary require- 
ments with an intake of proteid food far below the 
quantities generally consumed, and this without in- 
creasing in any measure the amount of non -nitrogenous 
food." 



SUPPLEMENTARY 559 

"x4.ny excess above what is really needed imposes just 
50 much of an unnecessary strain upon the organism." 

"■ Moderation in diet means a grreat savin o- in the 
wear and tear of the bodily machinery." 

The liver and kidneys would be saved from many 
diseases. 

Less proteid means less products of the purin type, 
xanthin, hypo-xanthin, guanin, adenin ; less uric acid. 

Several of the persons under experiment obtained 
relief from gouty or rheumatic symptoms. 

Mr. Chittenden, though not unfavourable to a 
vegetarian diet, considers that nature never intended 
man to live solely on a cereal diet, or any specific form 
of food to the exclusion of all others. 

This, taken literally, would condemn large popula- 
tions which have shown extraordinary energy and 
national longevity without calling in the slaughterer's 
axe, and would commend the omnivorous and insect- 
eatino; aborigines of Australia. Even the cannibal 
might put in a claim for his " specific form of food." 

But Professor Chittenden's results are too valual)le 
for the ]3rospects of the race to make any objection 
agreeable. After all, the plant world contains endless 
variety. 

" It is one of the axioms of physiology that the 
majority of the diseases of mankind are due to, or 
connected with, perversions of nutrition." 

Most emphatically may we concur with the writer 
in becoming " more and more impressed with the 
importance and significance of the results in their bear- 
ing on the broader problem of general physiological 
economy in nutrition." The healing power of this 
teachino- is immense. Armed with this discovery, we 



560 STRENGTH AND DIET 

may look forward to " happiness becoming more con- 
spicuous in the life of the community." 

Interdepartmental Committee on Physical Deterio- 
ration. — Evidence of the Bishop of Ross. — In the late 
fifties and early sixties, the food of the peasantry (in 
Ireland) consisted of potatoes for one meal, Indian 
meal and oatmeal for two other meals, as a rule, and 
there was very little bread used. . . . Wheaten bread 
has become of very common use in Ireland, and has 
superseded Indian meal, oatmeal, and even to a large 
extent the potato. Milk was formerly very largely 
used with potatoes and porridge. The present food 
is bread and a very had form of tea. Many families 
have practically no other food than bread and strong 
tea all the year. The peasantry and labourers have 
the idea that this is a higher form of food than 
potatoes, porridge, and milk, and this idea grows more 
and more obdurate. " I have known young children 
only a few months old being fed on bread and tea." 
The peasantry used to have skim-milk, now they have 
only separated milk, " which is undrinkable." 

Q, 10,800. Dr. Robert Jones. — " Chronic indiges- 
tion from beer is very common both in men and 
women. Beer-drinkers are liable to a kind of acid 
fermentation with gastric catarrh, in consequence of 
which they are often unable to take food, and what 
they take is incliiferently assimilated." This leads to 
ill-nutrition and deterioration. — 10,823. Insanity from 
drink in women is much more marked than it used to 
be. Also local forms of motor paralysis. — 10,834. The 
life of women is more assimilated to that of men. — 
10,837. Alcohol perverts the moral nature, attention, 
judgment, the higher states of consciousness, and 



SUPPLEMENTARY 561 

memory ; it enfeebles the will. Consequently the 
children of heavy drinkers are neglected ; the parents 
have become incapable. 

Mr. Eccles. — 10,713 et seq. AlcohoHsm in the 
mother affects the child before it is born ; later, the 
alcoholic environment produces deterioration. There 
is much infant mortality from alcoholic mothers, whose 
milk is poor. The staple food of the poorest classes in 
towns is fried fish, and " I have seen a child of nine 
months old eating shrimps." There is a vast deal 
more pleasure, requiring money wasted on it, than 
formerly. 

Dr. C. R. Browne, Duhlin. — 9676 et seq. The 
Lunacy Commissioners ascribe some of the increase of 
lunacy in Ireland to the excessive quantity of tea- 
drinking. As to tea-drinking, " where the people took 
comjoaratively little a few years ago, the amount taken 
now is something tremendous. Only the other day, in 
Queen's County, I found that in every cottage for 
some distance round the place where I was they took 
it at all meals, and it was generally kept in brew on 
the hob and taken in sups all day." Round the coast 
the staple diet is fish, and inland it is potatoes and 
tea, instead of barley-meal and oatmeal. The country 
population were much finer than the townspeople in 
physique, but the general opinion is that they are 
deteriorating. The farmers' families, who get plenty 
of milk, are strong and well-built. 

Indian meal has taken the place of oatmeal in parts 

of Ulster. In parts of Kerry, Limerick, Cork, and 

very many of the southern counties, if you go into a 

small cottar-farmer's house at dinner-time you will 

find a skib of potatoes. A man will take about a 
36 



562 STRENGTH AND DIET 

quart of milk and half a stone of potatoes for his 
dinner. 

Dr. Joseph Wigglesivorth. — 8982 et seq. Alcohol 
is an extremely potent cause of lunacy. The children 
of drunken parents often have unstable or badly 
developed brains. Excessive drinking in mothers has 
an extremely pernicious effect on their offspring. 

Dr. Eustace Smith. — 8440 et seq. The pro- 
portion of mothers who can nurse their children, 
already small, is diminishing very much. In the East 
End of London tinned things are largely used. Tinned 
milk is left open in a horrible atmosphere, and becomes 
quite poisonous. The Jewish children are much fatter 
and sturdier ; Jewish mothers attend to their children 
more carefully. 

Mr. W. H. Lihhy, headmaster of Board Schools at 
Walworth, gave evidence concerning the feeding of 
school children w^ith nourishing vegetable soups, brown 
bread, whole-meal cake, etc., provided by Mr. Arnold 
Hills. Though there was a strong prejudice against 
the vegetarian cookery, and the experiment was largely 
suppressed, the children asked, with only one excep- 
tion, preferred the vegetable soups and brown bread 
and cakes, and they certainly throve upon this fare, 
which animal soup and white bread was brought to 
replace. 

Mrs. Close. — 2554 et seq. The people are deterior- 
ating mentally and bodily. The cooking in Scotland 
and in Cheshire (where Mrs. Close lived) \vas formerly 
excellent. The knowledge of cookery has gone down 
immensely. In England the sense of duty has 
diminished, and pleasure and idleness have increased. 
In Auvergne the people lived on cabbage soup, with 



SUPPLEMENTARY 563 

bacon, potatoes, and bread ; buckwheat, cheese, curds 
and whey ; fruit, carrots, wine, etc.; and in Touraine, 
on cabbage soup, beans and bacon, mutton or beef, 
cheese, wine, etc. " The nearer you come to London, 
the more infamous the food." The cookinof in York- 
shire is still good. In many parts tea is made fright- 
fully strong, bread is very bad ; the children are sent 
to school on this miserable stuff. Adulterated tinned 
milk, extremely bad bacon, and extremely bad bread 
are the fare of large numbers of the British peasantry. 

Dr. Lewis Hawkes (Q. 13,217) maintained that 
"half these ailments are due to beer and bad spirits." 
Girls now go into public-houses, contrary to former 
custom. 

Tea, pickles, vinegar, and a little bread form the 
fare of large numbers of factory girls ; strong tea early 
and late. They naturally get dyspepsia, and are 
difficult to treat. 

Dr. Airy related how, by a system of food supply in 
Birmingham at a cost of a halfpenny a meal, large 
numbers of children were helped and strengthened. 
By incessant experiment, lentil soup, with bread and 
jam, was found to be the best. The teachers reported 
that the difference in the children was perfectly extra- 
ordinary. 

In a paper on " Economic Nutrition " in the Con- 
temporary Review (July 1904), Mr. E. Wake Cooke 
writes that a more thorough application of old half- 
developed truths has produced some startlingly novel 
results ; a movement is arising which promises to 
solve problems that have baffled reformers from time 
immemorial. 

The new discoveries show us how to escape many 



564 STRENGTH AND DIET 

sufferiDgs, and to gain greatly in physical and mental 
efficiency. 

The writer refers chiefly to the discovery of Mr. 
Fletcher concerning the immense importance of thorough 
mastication, and the very much smaller amount of food 
needed when the habit has been acquired. When the 
food is chewed, say 100 times, one-half to one-third 
the ordinary quantity suffices, and there is a great 
increase in health and activity. Mr. Fletcher's ex- 
perience with himself is most remarkable, and well 
deserves imitation. He rises at 4 a.m., and does all his 
work before noon, when he has his first meal, a light 
one. The extreme importance of thorough mastication 
has been shown by Dr. Harry Campbell in articles in 
the Lancet. It would do aw^ay with appendicitis and 
a vast amount of indigestion and other diseases, in- 
cluding probably many cases of cancer in the stomach. 
[Lancet, July 11, 18, etc., 1903.) The discovery is 
considered by Dr. Dew^ey to be of extreme importance 
for the prevention of disease. 

The Future of the British Race. 

In a recent very valuable address to the Society of 
Arts, Dr. Robert Jones has put forward the following 
facts and views, among much else of importance, bearing 
on the future of our race : — 

In one district of London, during a period of ten 
years, the average annual infant mortality was 226 per 
1000 in the first year of life. It was higher in 1902 
than in 1881. 

Though the general death-rate has declined, de- 
generation and longevity may proceed pari passu. 



S UPPLEMENTARY 565 

The hurry, the rush, the egotism, and eagerness 
for pleasure, and the overstrain, with high arterial 
tension, has much increased the number of the 
insane. 

There are new forms of heart disease. Sedatives 
for brain and heart are used as never before. 

In 1888-92 the senile cases in asylums were ll'G 
for males, 10'2 for females; in 1897-1901 they were 
15-6 and 14'0 per 10,000. 

The amount of adulterated, preservatived, and un- 
wholesome food sold is enormous ; much is distinctly 
poisonous, especially tinned foods, and mothers are too 
ignorant and ill-brought-up to provide a proper diet 
for their children. Thus the race deforms and de- 
generates. 

Bad teeth make a difference to the adult between 
robustness and the many forms of ill-health due to 
dyspepsia. The teeth of children should be attended 
to. 

Girls should be trained to become good wives and 
mothers. Cooking, domestic economy, and household 
duties should be the primary consideration. 

In primitive states of society insanity is rare. 

Alcohol is one of the most potent causes. Directly 
and indirectly, or in combination with others, it 
is responsible for much more than one-fifth of all 
cases. 

Town environment is not favourable to self-restraint, 
and a large proportion of countrymen coming to town 
become insane through drink. 

Tea, coffee, and tobacco - smoking cause many 
breakdowns. Forty-four out of fifty-three States 
of North America have penalised juvenile tobacco- 



566 STRENGTH AND DIET 

smoking, prohibiting its use generally until about 
seventeen. 

Town life brings lack of proper nutrition, over- 
crowding, bad surroundings, poverty, and crime, in- 
timately related to insanity. 

There were in London in 1891 no fewer than 
174,500 single-room tenements, each sheltering three 
to twelve persons. 

The food of the poor in cities is deficient in quality 
and quantity. Eighty thousand persons migrate every 
year from country to town. 

A new and favourable environment is the strongest 
force both to modify and to control the defects of a 
vicious heredity. The physical and psychical characters 
can be altered through the environment. Where, 
however, bad tendencies have been inherited also 
from ancestors beyond the parents, the evil is much 
more difficult to dislodge. 

Swedish drill and j)hysical exercises are excellent 
correctives of neurotic heredity. 

The upbringing and feeding of children should be 
made familiar to every mother. Children should be 
adequately and properly fed, and they should have the 
joys of life brought before them. They should have 
open-air playgrounds, and some one to organise their 
games, as in Germany. Finally, no effort should be 
spared to realise Mr. Ebenezer Howard's great scheme 
of the migration of industries into the country. 

In his reply upon the discussion, Dr. Jones said 
that if we could find any practical solution of the 
problem of bringing the labourer back to the land, the 
difficulty with regard to degeneration would to a very 
great extent be solved. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 5G7 

Addenda on Diet in Various Countries. 

Official Rei^orts of Dij^lomatic and Consular 
Agents Abroad, 1871. — Mr. A, A. Patou, Consul at 
Ragusa, reported against the use of tea, coffee, and 
spirits on any occasion whatever. Lemonade, or else 
burnt barley, are good substitutes ; the latter may be 
taken after dinner with advantage, instead of coffee. 
Early breakfast should be very light. Tea, coffee, etc. 
and heavy meals cause oppression and languor. Coffee 
greatly disturbs the process of digestion. In a fort- 
night the substitution of harmless drinks for tea or 
coffee l^ecomes quite easy, and the " deprivation of 
these luxuries, with their attendant expenditure of 
nervous force, is far more than compensated by the 
serenity of mind resulting from abstinence" from 
them. A nap half an hour before dinner is considered 
much better than after dinner. The light diet recom- 
mended is found to conduce not only to health, but to 
an exhilarating flow of animal spirits. 

Mr. Pakenham reported that in Belgium very many 
had for their entire subsistence potatoes with a little 
grease, brown or black bread, and a little chicory coffee. 
Li quarries, mines, etc., the workmen had bread and 
butter, cheese, vegetables, bacon, salt pork, and some- 
times other flesh two or three times a week, and coffee 
and beer for drink. Coffee is usually mixed with 
chicory. 

At Antwerp coffee with chicory was largely drunk, 
beer only occasionally. " The Belgian artisan lives 
chiefly upon farinaceous or vegetable food." 

At Para, Brazil, the workman lived on dried or 
salted fish or meat, with mandioca flour, coffee and 



568 STRENGTH AND DIET 

cachass. Vegetables were beyond his means, unless he 
had a garden. 

In Saxony, Mr. Burnley reported that the average 
dietary was — 6 a.m., two or three cups of moderately 
strong coffee, with -g- lb. of white bread ; 9 a.m., about a 
J lb. of bread, with butter and cheese, often brandy. 
At 12, soup, with about J lb. of flesh; 4 p.m., either 
coff*ee and bread and butter, or bread, butter, cheese, 
beer, or brandy. At 7, about J lb. of bread, with 
butter and cheese, seldom meat, and a thin beer. 

Among luorkmen — 6 a.m., two or three cups of 
coff'ee, with J lb. of bread ; 9 a.m., ^ lb. of bread and 
butter, or bread with bacon or cheese, and, as a rule, 
brandy. At 12, bread and butter, bacon or sausage, 
brandy, sometimes vegetables ; 4 p.m., |- lb. bread and 
butter, sometimes with cheese, bacon, and brandy. At 
7, J lb. of bread and butter, potatoes, thin beer. The 
labourers in the country have less flesh, brandy, and 
coffee. 

In Switzerland " the consumption of meat is 
much greater in the towns than in the country." 
In 1870 the stated consumption per head in 
Switzerland was 47 lb., against 68 in England. It 
was probably really considerably less, not counting 
foreigners. 

" All classes alike live very frugally," principally on 
vegetables. " All drink coffee with milk at least twice 
a day," with a large proportion of chicory. 

The Norwegian Diet was coarse bread, barley or 
oats, porridge, potatoes, salt fish, little flesh meat. 
Coffee was largely consumed by all classes. 

Tartar Diet. — The Tartars are exceedingly carniv- 
orous on occasion, but as a rule abstemious, living on 



SUPPLEMENTARY 569 

millet and mare's milk. They are " stout, hardy, 
spirited, fearless." {Memoirs of Baron de Toit.) 

In Norway, meat which has been smoked or dried 
is kept for many months. Salt herrings are very largely 
<;onsumed. A cup of coffee is taken on rising, a small 
glass of brandy at breakfast. This meal, among the 
well-to-do, includes ham, tongue, sausages, anchovies, 
•cheeses, fish, potatoes, cold meat dishes, etc. Dinner 
consists of soup, fish, meat, and pudding. Beer and 
claret are favourite drinks. Supper includes beer, 
brandy, and meats like those at breakfast, with cheeses 
in variety. [Vegetarian, May 21, 1898.) 

Diet of the German Workman. — A correspondent 
writing to the Daily Chronicle recently described the 
•German workman's breakfast as consisting of black 
bread, sausage, rolls, and coff'ee ; dinner — sausage, vege- 
tables, soup ; supper — bread, butter, cheese, coffee, etc. 
Eggs and fiesh are not eaten daily in many parts. 

Orkneys and Shetlands. — The people of the 
Orkneys and Shetlands are described as having taken 
to tea-drinking " with a zest unsurpassed by almost 
any other of the Queen's dominions. It is tea, tea, tea, 
literally from morning till night. . . . The black, 
boiling liquid is consumed in large quantities, with 
little sugar and no milk. This frequent tea-drinking is 
havino- a disastrous effect on the looks of the Shetland 
women. They age rapidly," etc. The Orcadian 
farmers use oatmeal largely, potatoes, milk, and 
plentiful tea. 

" In Edinburgh and Glasgow the distinctive Scottish 
diet has almost disappeared, to be replaced by the pork, 
bacon, beef, slops, and w^hite bread of more recent 
times." In many of the larger towns this sort of fare 



570 STRENGTH AND DIET 

has taken the phice of the " halesome parritch " of 
Burns' days. An excessively vile, tough, and rancid 
pork, highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and saltpetre, 
is a common dish. (Vegetarian, Dec. 3, 1898.) 

Spanish Workers. — The Spanish servants are 
stronger, harder, and more willing workers than their 
fellows in England. They live on bread, onions, fruity 
savoury soups, fry or onions, beans, oil, tomatoes, etc. 
(Vegetarian, April 30, 1898.) 

Beaver Indians. — The Beaver Indians of British 
Columbia live on flesh and wild fruits ; they often eat 
6 to 10 lb. of meat, and at other times they almost 
starve. The flesh diet causes a very great deal of 
scrofula and other diseases, so that they are dying out. 

The British in Columbia eat much meat, and are 
great tea-drinkers. (Vegetarian, Oct. 8, 1898.) 

Diet and Opium in China. — Opium-smoking in 
China is a cause of great physical evil, and at the same 
time economical evil as great. Mr. Parker's bearers 
were half- starved, ragged ruffians, but almost always 
opium-smokers. At many villages neither rice, nor 
eggs, nor sugar, nor fowls were obtainable, but Indian 
opium was always to be bought. Money was univer- 
sally wasted upon expensive opium by those who could 
least afford it ; poverty and misery resulted. This 
was in the Chehkiang province. The physique of 
the people was undoubtedly deteriorating. It is the 
Indian, not the Chinese, drug which does nearly all 
the damage. 

The Japanese and Coreans do not use opium. 
The Japanese, though shorter than the Chinese, are of 
sterner and sturdier stuff. The Coreans are also 
superior in physique to the Chinese of some pro- 



SUPPLEMENTARY 571 

vinces. Opium-smoking can be left off suddenly 
without ill effects ; this has been proved in the Hong- 
Kong prisons. 

The population of China in 1853 was, according 
to official records, 400,000,000. About 1 man in 20 
smokes Indian opium, and probably about 4 in 20 
smoke Chinese. 

A great many women, especially the Manchus, 
smoke opium. 

A mandarin's principal meal usually consists of the 
following, or something of the sort : — A large bowl of 
hot rice, a bowl of rice water, an ounce or two of pork, 
sour cabbage, salt duck, smoked ham, shrimps, etc. ; 
sometimes a very little wine or rice spirit ; and a few 
cups of tea. 

In some of the towns, and many parts of China, 
rats, mice, kittens, puppies, and almost any animal, 
if it happens to die on the road of plague or disease, 
is readily appropriated for food. 

Milk is not, as a rule, drunk in China except in the 
north. In Annam and Burmah, milk had no place in 
the national diet. Cheese is not used. 

Birds' nests, which are eaten at " first-class feasts, 
consist of the half-digested masses of fish and seaweed 
thrown up from the stomach of the swallow." 

The Chinese do not drink cold water. ^ 

In Japan (country) rice is considered a luxury, and is 
replaced by millet, beans, and a sort of macaroni. In 
an ordinary Buddhist native household, where no meat 
is eaten, a woman's rice - box is her larder. Only 
among the upper classes are sauces, eggs, and elaborate 
soups added to the simple fare. Two dishes are usual 
where guests are not frequent, rice and seaweed soups. 



572 STRENGTH AND DIET 

The claikon, a white radish, is very commonly eaten 
as a relish. These details are given by Mr. Douglas 
Sladen.^ 

Indian Fare and Strength. — Mr. Herbert 
Compton, in a book recently published,^ states that 
the richer classes are very large eaters. " The 
Bengali's menu is varied, and his apjoetite enormous. 
Measure for measure, your Indian will far outstrip the 
European in eating capacity." Soup, fish, curry, rice 
cakes, puddings, porridge, pulse, and fruit are 
consumed apparently at one meal. 

"The thriftiness of the peasant is marvellous." 
Rice is too much a luxury to be the common food. 
Millet, pulse, and other coarse grain form the staple, with 
salt and chillies for condiment. There are millions of 
peasants in India who exist on half an acre. 

Referring to the Indian soldiers, Mr. Compton 
says : " Looking at their fine, stalwart figures, at the 
mere height, weight, bulk, and girth of some of them, 
it is difiicult to credit the simplicity of their fare and 
the frugality of their lives in their native land. Most 
of them are vegetarians, and those big-boned frames 
and brawny muscles are innocent of any bolstering up 
with flesh food. Even in a country where meat sells 
at a penny a pound, the sepoy cannot afford such 
luxuries as beef, mutton, or goat, except on high days 
and holidays. Wheat and Indian corn are his staple 
food." In drink he confines himself to water and 
milk. He is a first-rate fightino; man. There are few 
tasks he will not attempt. 

Japanese Fare, Strength, Brain, and Endurance. 
— Mr. Cowen describes the Japanese in the war : 
" A wooden pail full of steaming boiled rice is brought 



SUPPLEMENTARY 573 

round, and each man fills his bowl ; a dish of some- 
thing like pickled cabbage, another of fish, and another 
of broad beans, or some such things, go round. . . . 
The rice-bowl may be filled three times, but the small 
saucerful of other things is seldom replenished. 
Sometimes there is preserved beef, in half-pound tins, 
and there are several other variations when possible. 
It is often said that the Japanese diet w^ould not be 
enough to keep a foreigner in health and strength. 
This is mere superstition. We believe in meat mainly 
because meat has happened to be the diet of our 
ancestors. . . . The Tibetans eat practically nothing 
but meat, because the country grows nothing but 
pasture, and the meat diet has not made them a 
superior race. I have lived on Japanese food — 
soldier food — for weeks of the hardest work, and it 
nourishes as well as anything. It does not make 
fat, . . . but it makes muscle, bone, sinew, blood, 
and fire and brain, as the Japanese have proved. 
There are no hardier soldiers in the world." * 

Sir Frederick Treves writes of the Japanese troops : 
" In physique they appeared to be splendid." There 
was no drunkenness when the companies w^ere dis- 
banded after drill. When regiments started for the 
front, the soldier's sweetheart would press upon her 
hero a bunch of flowers, not a whisky-bottle. There 
was everywhere an absence of swagger and bravado. 
" I never once congratulated a Japanese acquaintance 
upon a victory when he did not reply by expressing 
a regret that so many Russian lives had been lost." 
Extreme care was taken as to cleanliness and as to the 
wholesomeness of food. During six months of terrible 
fighting and exposure in a foreign country there was 



574 STRENGTH AND DIET 

only a fraction of 1 per cent, of deaths from prevent- 
able disease. In the Boer War 13,520 British soldiers 
died of disease, mostly preventable. 

Sir Frederick gives a most horrible account of the 
slums of Chinese Canton and of the common food : 
" The Cantonese live mainly upon rice, fish, pork, fowls, 
and ducks." Also they consume loathsome stews of 
various sorts, and dogs, rats, worms, putrid eggs, 
entrails, etc.^ 

Mr, C. Kadono contributed an account of the diet 
of a family "in moderate circumstances" to the Times 
of 11th February 1905. 

There are three meals a day. Breakfast (7 to 7.30) 
consists of miso soup (with vegetables, tofu, etc.), boiled 
rice, tea (sometimes a raw egg or boiled sweet soya 
beans or natto, etc.). Lunch (12), fish boiled in soya, 
vegetables stewed in soya, pickles, boiled rice, tea. 
Supper (6 to 6.30), soya soup (with vegetables, fish, 
etc.), raw fish with soya sauce, broiled or boiled fish, 
with vegetables (or butcher's meat or fowls and vege- 
tables), rice, tea. Soya beans contain 33 to 42 '8 
per cent, of albumen, and 17 to 29 of carbohydrate, 
against 13 "2 albumen in beef, 18 '8 in mutton, 19 "7 in 
chicken. Soya beans are eaten boiled. Miso is steamed 
soya, with barley, malt, rice, and salt, fermented — a 
brown pasty mass. Soya sauce is like miso, but more 
watery. Tofu is boiled soya, with hot water, strained 
and cut into cakes. 

The fare of the bulk of the population is, of course, 
simpler. Ordinary adults eat 1 lb. 8 oz. to 2 lb. 4 oz. 
of rice per day — three bowls at each meal. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 575 

In Japan the upper classes nurse (breast-feed) 
their children for about a year. No child would get 
more than about half a pint of milk daily when weaned. 
It is looked uj^on as a luxury, " The Japanese rice is 
far more sustaining than the Indian." As to tea, 
boiling water is poured on, and the infusion is poured 
off at once ; it is never allowed to stand, and hot 
water is never poured on the leaves a second time. 
There is much rheumatism, caused, Mrs. Earle thinks, 
by tea and fish. But we must remember the excess- 
ively hot baths taken daily and the draughty houses. 
"There is no gout." "The labouring classes I should 
call much stronger and healthier than the poor of 
Europe. They are hardier, and more independent of 
luxuries in food and domestic life." There is much 
more fresh air in the houses owing to the absence of 
fflass windows. Mrs. Earle warns her readers against 
fruit, jam, marmalade, etc., in winter, owing to the 
tendency, in cold weather, of many persons to retain 
uric acid. Apples, however, are not included in the 
fruits which should be avoided.^' 

General Nogi, Commander of the Eleventh Divi- 
sion of the Imperial Japanese Army, has an immense 
reputation in Japan. "He became celebrated by his 
marvellous administration of Formosa. . . . He is 
one of the most cultured of living Japanese gentlemen. 
His scholarship is renowned." He is a writer of songs, 
this " wonderful old Samurai leader." Character, 
temperament, and ability have combined to give him 
almost unlimited influence. For a lono; time he sub- 
sisted on shojinryori, a diet " simple beyond all Western 
notions " — the diet of an ascetic recluse, for he retired 
for four years from the world. His high ideals of duty, 



576 STRENGTH AND DIET 

at a moment when vast preparations were being made 
for the coming crisis, forbade him all the comforts of 
home life. He is a warrior of the finest type/ 

Iceland. — "The ordinary food of a well-to-do Ice- 
landic family consists of dried fish, butter, sour whey 
(kept till fermentation takes place), curds, and skier 
(a very peculiar cheese), a little mutton and rye bread. 
As might be expected, this very meagre fare is not 
very conducive to health : scurvy, leprosy, elephanti- 
asis, and all cutaneous disorders are very common ; 
while the practice of mothers to leave off nursing their 
children at the end of three days, feeding them with 
cow's milk instead, results in a frightful mortality 
among the babies." ^ 

Arctic Conditions. — It is a common stopper to 
the advocate of a humane way of living to put the 
question : " What w^ould you do in the polar regions ? " 
The answer is very simple, " I would not live there ; 
and I consider it a wrong to choose ice and darkness 
when the greater part of the world is full of life and 
beauty." The fact, however, is that it would be quite 
easy to live well on the products of plants in the 
coldest climates. The Finns have proved this. The 
finest oils from nuts and fruits are equal to any cod- 
liver oil or bear's fat. M. Pelletier lived entirely 
without flesh food during his recent sojourn in Alaska. 
The severe cold had very little effect on him. 

Tahiti. — Captain Cook described the people of 
Otaheite (Tahiti) as follows : — " As to the people, they 
are of the largest size of Europeans. The tallest that 
we saw was a man upon a neighbouring island who 
measured 6 feet 3 inches. The women of the superior 
rank are also in general above our middle stature, 



SUPPLEMENTARY 577 

but those of the inferior class are rather below it, 
and some of them are very small. Their natural com- 
plexion is brunette. The shape of the face is comely. 
. . . Their teeth are almost, without exception, most 
beautifully even and white, and their breath perfectly 
without taint. In their disposition they seemed to 
be brave, open, and candid, without either suspicion 
or treachery, cruelty or revenge. . . . They were, 
however, all thieves. 

" As to food, the principal is the bread-fruit. . . . 
If a man plants ten trees — which he may do in about 
an hour — he will fulfil his duty to his own and future 
generations as well as our people fulfil theirs by 
ploughing and reaping as often as the seasons return. 
Cocoa-nuts, bananas, plantains, and a great variety of 
other fruits are also eaten." " Salt water (sea) is the 
universal sauce." " For drink, they have nothing but 
water or the juice of the cocoa-nut." A great deal of 
fish is added at times to the veo;etable diet. 

The produce of the islands included thirteen sorts 
of bananas, a fruit like an apple, sweet potatoes, yams, 
cocoas, jambu (a delicious fruit), ahee (a pod fruit), 
various other fruits ; and hogs, dogs, and poultry. 

" The quantity of food which these [chief] people 
eat at a meal is prodigious. I have seen one man 
devour two or three fishes as big as a perch ; three 
bread-fruits, each bigger than two fists ; fourteen or 
fifteen plantains or bananas, each 6 or 7 inches long 
and 4 or 5 round ; and near a quart of the pounded 
bread-fruit." Custom required them to have their meals 
not in company, but in solitude. 

In New Zealand, Captain Cook found the people 

" equal to the largest of those in Europe, stout, well- 
37 



578 STRENGTH AND DIET 

limbed, and fleshy, exceedingly vigorous and active, 
mild and gentle towards each other, implacable towards 
enemies." " Their principal food is fish," at certain 
times, " and fern root, yams, clams, and potatoes. . . . 
Water is their universal liquor, and if they have 
really no means of intoxication, they are in this parti- 
cular happy beyond any other people that we ha^'e yet 
seen or heard of." " As there is, perhaps, no source of 
disease, either critical or chronic, but intemperance and 
inactivity, it cannot be thought strange that they 
enjoy perfect and uninterrupted health." 

Ancient Education and Health. — In RoUin's 
Ancient History I find the following allusions® to 
education, derived, no doubt, from Xenophon's Cyro- 
2)cedia : — The public good, the common benefit of the 
nation, was the only principle of all the Persian laws. 
" The education of children was looked upon as the 
most important duty, and the most essential part of 
government. . . . Everything was regulated, the place 
and length of their exercises, the times of eating, the 
quality of their meat and drink," etc. 

" The only food allowed either the children or the 
young men was bread, cresses [vegetables], and water. 
. . . They considered that a plain, frugal diet, without 
any mixture of sauces or ragouts, would strengthen the 
body, and lay such a foundation of health as would 
enable them to undergo the hardships and fatigues of 
war to a o-ood old aoe." 

" When the Medes and Hyrcanians were returned 
from pursuing the enemy, Cyrus made them sit down 
to the repast he had prepared for them, desiring them 
only to send some bread to the Persians, wdio were 
sufliciently provided, he said, with all they wanted, 



^ 



SUPPLEMENTARY 579 

either for their rao-outs or their drinkino;. Hunger was 

O O CD 

their only ragout, and water from the river their only 
drink." 

To the very last, Cyrus enjoyed a vigorous state of 
health, which was the fruit of the sober and temperate 
life which he had constantly led. At a very advanced 
age " he still enjoyed all the vigour and advantages of 
youth." 

Of the Egyptians, M. Rollin tells that the quantity 
and quality of what the king was to eat and drink 
were prescribed by the laws, and that this w^as a custom 
in Egypt, whose inhabitants were all sober, and whose 
air inspired frugality. 

Abbe Fleury, in his book on the manners of the 
Israelites, truly observes that " it is the peasant who 
feeds the citizen, the magistrate, the gentleman, the 
ecclesiastic ; . . . all must ultimately be owned to be 
received from the products of the earth ; and thereupon 
he shows how the cultivation of the land is a finer 
pursuit than " sauntering from place to place, gaming, 
and expensive diversions." 

Honouring; the cultivators and owners of flocks and 
herds, the Egyptians continued for thousands of years 
to occupy the banks of the Nile. No man was allowed 
to be useless to the State. ^^ 

Professor Lawrence, F.R.S., in one of his lectures 
in 1823 at the College of Suro-eons, said that "in 
the periods of their greatest simplicity, manliness and 
bravery, the Greeks and Romans appear to have lived 
almost entirely on plain vegetable preparations ; indif- 
ferent bread, fruits, and other produce of the earth are 
the chief nourishment of the modern Italians, and of 
the mass of the population in most countries of Europe. 



580 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Of those more immediately known to ourselves, the 
Irish and Scotch may be mentioned ; who are certainly 
not rendered weaker than their English fellow-subjects 
by their freer use of vegetable aliment." 

Parisian Workmeyi. — Miss Betham-Edwards writes: 
The fare of a French Parisian workman is a basin of 
soup before setting out to work. Water in which 
vegetables have been boiled is set aside for this, and a 
bit of butter or bacon is added, and there w^ill be a 
savoury mess in which to steep his pound of bread. 
Bacon costs Is. 6d. a pound, and the high price of 
butter causes the poor to use margarine. Bread is 2d. 
a pound, meat Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. and 2s., sugar (was) 
5d. to 6d., tea 2s. 6d. to 6s., coffee 2s. to 2s. 6d., 
Gruyere cheese Is. to Is. 4d. ; and bananas are 2d. 
each. Good coals are £2, 16s. a ton. 

" No Breakfast^ — The cutting-out of one meal 
seems to bring very great benefit to many persons, but 
could certainly not be recommended to all. A corre- 
spondent writes to the Vegetarian Messenger of 
January last that, though it was a "severe wrench" to 
him to give up breakfast, after eight months' trial of 
only two meals a day he is in perfect health, stronger 
physically and mentally than ever before. All the rest 
of the family and household, including two boys, have 
been particularly well since adopting the vegetarian 
diet and two-meal plan. Colds and headaches have 
gone. 

Another correspondent has gained 13 lb. weight 
since adopting the plan, and has improved in health 
from a " run-down " condition. 

In a letter from the British correspondent with the 
troops at Colesberg, in the South African War, the 



SUPPLEMENTARY 581 

following remarks occur : " As a rule, the troops have, 
before starting, say, at four a.m., a cup of coffee and 
a biscuit. The march will often last till three or four 
in the afternoon." At three or four in the afternoon 
they would have a good solid meal of fresh meat, jam, 
biscuits, tea or coffee, " and they do not wish for any 
more for the rest of the day. Their diet is not lower- 
ing ; the men look the very picture of health and 
strength." These troops, following De Wet, had 
" undergone more than the ordinary hardships." 

Trapinst Fare. — It is eight hundred years since 
the order of Cistercians was founded at Citerz, in 
France. The Trappists belong to this order. About 
the same time the monastery of Oelenberg, in Alsace, 
was founded. " All visitors to Oelenberg testify to the 
excellent appearance of the monks. They abstain from 
flesh, fish, and eggs, and live on vegetables, bread, salad, 
cheese, fruit, and water. Rarely they have a little ale. 
On fast-days they eat even less than the ordinary 
simple fare." 

Christmas Fare. — Dr. Haig writes : " I make bold 
to say that Christmas, with its terrible carnage and 
gluttony in the name of the ' Lord of Love,' sends 
hundreds and thousands to an untimely grave in the 
three or four months that follow." The wrong use of 
food, and the retention of waste products in the body, 
causes a fatal reckoning to come in the spring. ^^ 

Professor Victor Horsley, F.P.S., in a very instruc- 
tive lecture for the Lees and Raper Trust, has told of 
the most recent scientific results in researches on the 
effect of alcohol on the brain. Exact measurements 
proved that, although a person might believe that he 



582 STRENGTH AND DIET 

was working better, even a small (juantity of alcohol 
reduced brain activity ; both rapidity of thought and 
the rate of voluntary movement were affected. Larger 
doses caused the brain cells to shrivel and contain mere 
pigment, instead of the vital and necessary nucleus. 
He also demonstrated the close connection between 
alcohol and insanity. "Total abstinence must be our 
course if we follow the teaching of scientific investiga- 
tion and the dictates of common sense." 



Milh and Meat Supply. 

In a paper read at the Royal United Service In- 
stitution, Dr. Cantley said that it was difficult for the 
rich, and almost impossible for the poor, to obtain a 
satisfactory milk supply in towns. Owing to want of 
legislation for efficient control, milk was drunk in 
London which had been declared unfit for sale in the 
country. London milk was said to contain, in 14 per 
cent, of samples, the tubercle bacillus. " Milk is often 
a filthy fluid." "The only plan for dealing with the 
matter thoroughly seems to me to be the municipalisa- 
tion of the milk supply." 

Dr. G. J. Cooper, formerly for some years Chairman 
of the Public Health Committee of the London County 
Council, said, in an interview with a representative 
of a daily paper on 2nd November, that the Council 
has no power to exclude infected milk supply from 
London as a whole. " I have seen the horrible con- 
ditions under which our milk supply is carried on." 
Four hundred or five hundred cases of scarlet fever 
occurred lately through a convalescent youth employed 



SUPPLEMENTARY 583 

as milker. " Milk is the very best soil for the cultiva- 
tion of the bacilli of epidemic diseases." 

As to infected tiesh, Dr Alfred Carpenter said in 
1879, as President of the Preventive Medicine Section 
of the Sanitary Institute, that " our domestic animals 
fell a prey to every kind of epidemic. . . . All sanitary 
law is as a rule ignored by the farmer. ... I was not 
surprised when I heard an inspector from the Metro- 
politan Meat Market declare upon oath that 80 per 
cent, of the meat which was sent to the London 
market was the subject of tubercular disease." They 
are supplied, says Dr. Carpenter, with foul air, foul 
water, and often with musty food. 

In this connection the words of Charles Kingsley 
have a direct bearing : "A dying child is to me one 
of the most dreadful sights in the world. . . . The 
most beautiful and precious thing that earth can 
have. . . . What has God mven to this thankless 
earth, and what has the earth thrown away, in nine 
cases out of ten, from its own neglect and careless- 
ness ? . . . You, and not the ' visitation of God^' are 
the cause of epidemics. . . . Let our hearts be 
bowed as the heart of one man, to say, that, so far as 
we have the power, so help us, God, no man, woman, 
or child in Britain . . . shall die henceforth of pre- 
ventable disease. 

" Every social improvement, and most mechanical 
ones, have had to make their way against laziness, 
ignorance, envy, vested wrongs, vested superstitions, 
and the whole vis inertisB of the world, the tiesh, and 
the devil. ... A bit of sanitary reform is a sacred 
duty, from which I no more dare turn away than from 



584 STRENGTH AND DIET 

knocking down a murderer wliom I saw killing a 
woman." 

And cruelty and neglect towards men has its 
counterpart in cruelty and neglect towards animals. 

" I have seen," says Mr. Sidney Beard, " the sweat 
of agony rolling from a gentle mother cow, and every 
hair standins; out in dreadful, tense terror as the fatal 
chain dragged her by the head across the blood-stained 
floor. Fighting for every inch, slipping in the gore of 
her fellows, with starting eyeballs and short breaths of 
concentrated terror, she was forced onward to her 
doom ; the cruel twisted tail behind, the inexorable 
windlass chain in front. Each inch was a very lifetime 
of agony, each moment a century of pain, and for 
what? To benefit humanity? — No." 

The lll-HeaUh of London. 

Dr. Vivian Poore has shown that the annual rate of 
mortality in the central districts of London did not 
materially decrease between 1841 and 1891. 

The " corrected " death-rates, meaning the rates not 
including the deaths of non-residents in hospitals, were 
as follows for the various districts in 1891 : — 

Western, 19-5 ; Eastern, 23'2 ; 

Northern, 20*0; Southern, 20-3. 

Central, 27 "6 ; 

The death-rate for Central London was thus higher than 
that of any big town in England. But it was really 
higher than appears from the figure — first, because the 
correction for age-distribution has not been made, 
though the central districts are constantly supplied by 



SUPPLEMENTARY 585 

selected adults from the country ; second, because no 
correction has been made for the laroe number of 
Londoners sent to the country ill and dying. The 
infant mortality figure for the first quarter of 1892 
was, for the whole of London, 179 : for the Strand, 
317 ; the City, 244 ; Holborn, 229 ; St. Martin's, 217 ; 
Clerkenwell, 212. 

"Not only does every human being require for his 
support [at least] a certain definite average amount of 
pure air and pure water, but also a definite average 
amount of the earth's surface to provide him with food 
and clothing." Dr. Poore estimates that, on the 
average, one acre is about sufficient for the bare 
support of one person. If the man " really inhabited 
his unit there need be no difiiculty about fresh air, 
water supply, or burial." Dr. Poore might have added 
" nor about drainage, food supply, fresh vegetables, 
playgrounds." 

Sir Douglas Galton quoted Dr. Farr's discovery, 
that in proportion as you have a population concen- 
trated on a small area, so will the mortality of that 
population be increased. The grandchildren of people 
who live in towns and who grow up, are only half as 
numerous as those of labourers who live in healthy 
country districts. 

" I found in an insanitary district in St. George's 
in the East, where the death-rate was 31 per 1000, the 
sickness-rate was 270 per 1000, or 9 cases of illness to 
1 death. In the worst parts of the district the sickness 
rate was 620 per 1000, or 20 to 1 death." Dr. Farr 
calculated the future wages of an aOTicultural labourer 
at twenty at £637 ; so that if he died at that age the 
sum of £637 is lost to the community. 



586 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Notes on Rural Depopulation. 

xlccording to the Manchester Guardian of June 17, 
1901, the rural districts of the country show an 
increase of population of 2 "9 per cent., while the urban 
have increased 15 '2. The drain to the towns is in ten 
years about 9 per cent, of the total rural population. 
The rural population has fallen from 25 to 23 per cent, 
of the whole country. The people of towns with over 
50,000 has increased from 42 to 44*5 of the whole 
population of England. 

According to Prince Kropotkin, the Belgians aim 
not, as we do, at producing £5 worth of hay, but 
£100 worth of vegetables, cabbages, carrots, etc., to 
the acre. 

In America, at a recent competition, the first ten 
prizes were awarded to farmers who had grown, on 
three acres each, from 87 to 115 bushels of maize, 
Indian corn, to the acre. In Minnesota prizes were 
given for 8 J to 31 tons of potatoes to the acre — 300 to 
1170 bushels. 

At Tomblaine, in France, the 8j bushels of wheat 
required for one man's annual food were grown on 47 
feet square (2250 sq. ft.), about one-twentieth of an 
acre. (Major Hallett.) 

Labourers and artisans ought to grow, in small 
gardens, huge crops of potatoes, carrots, beans, onions, 
peas, and beans. 

Another investigator states that 1000 square feet of 
land (50 x 20) will produce 38 lb. of wheat, 462 lb. 
of potatoes, or 4000 lb. of bananas, representing one 
man's food supply for 38 days, 230 days, and 4 years 
respectively. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 587 

The foUowiDg is derived from the Clarion of 
lltli September 1903 :— 

Mr, Vincent, of a hotel at Brighton, works as 
waiter eighty hours a week. His age is fifty-six. He 
has been cultivating an allotment since 1893 : three 
years, 50 rods; next year, 60 rods; and since 1897, 
80 rods. His chest was very bad, and the doctor's 
advice made him take to gardening. He cultivates his 
allotment mostly between 4 a.m. and 8 a.m., when his 
duties at the hotel begin. From January to September 
1903 he put in 660f hours at his garden ; roughly, 
three hours a day. In July he worked 131 hours. " I 
reckon that a man could cultivate 2 acres, not over- 
work himself, and make £4 a week." He always 
watches his vegetables carefully, fills every inch of 
space with plants, and as soon as one crop is out puts 
in another. He does not believe in artificial manures 
or intensive cultivation. The allotments are on the 
Downs, chalk and stones, not 3 inches of soil. " It 
took me six months to clear it," now there is a foot 
of soil without a stone on it. He uses about ten loads 
of manure, top-dressing, putting manure round the 
plants as they grow, digging it in after the crops are 
taken up. " We have water laid on, but practically I 
leave it to the rain." He disposes of his produce to 
the hotel and to private customers, and never alters his 
prices, — cauliflowers, l^d. each always ; peas, 7d. a 
gallon, even when shops charge Is. 6d. He charges 
2d. for baskets in which he packs 20 lb. of stuff. For 
6d. the railway company delivers 25 lb. within 2|- miles 
of the London station. He paid 25s. for digging last 
year — all the work is practically done l)y himself. The 
soil gets more productive every year ; this year he 



588 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



expects to clear £80. He takes himself, and gives 
away, about £10 a year of stuff. The corporation 
charo-es at the rate of £4 an acre. 
His account stands as follows : — 



Revenue. 

Asparagus (Is. 6d. per 100) . 

Asparagus kale (2s. 6d. a bus.) 

Artichokes (3s. 4d. a bus.) 

Broccoli (l^d. each) 

Brussels sprouts (5d. a gal.) 

Beetroot (Id. and |d. each) 

Broad beans 

Cauliflowers (l^d. each) 

Cabbages (Id. each) 

Carrots (10 for Id.) 

French beans (5d. a gal.) 

Flowers 

Gooseberries (4d. a qt.) 

Lettuce (Id. and |d.) . 

Leeks (6d. a doz.) 

Marrows (Id. and l|d. each) 

Mushrooms (6d. a lb.) . 

Mustard (2d. a punnet) 

Mint .... 

Peas (7d. a gal.) . 

Parsley 

Potatoes (5d. and 6d. a gal.) 

Plants 

Red currants (Is. 6d. a gal.) 

Radishes (.36 for Id.) . 

Rhubarb (6 sticks Id.) . 

Stones (2 loads) . 

Spinach (5d. a gal.) 

Sea-kale 

Sage .... 

Turnips (.5d. a gal.) 

Thyme (3d. a bunch) . 



£0 8 


6 


1 19 


10 


2 5 


5 


4 17 


5 


2 17 


4 


1 2 


4 


5 





4 7 


10 


9 


10 


1 14 





1 8 


7 


18 


4 


1 





7 11 


1 


4 


8 


2 


11 


2 17 


4 


17 


4 


19 


6 


4 18 





3 6 


4 


1 14 


10 


1 





16 


6 


10 


6 


17 


11 


5 





2 11 





2 


11 


12 


3 


5 


11 


4 


7 



MQ 2 11 



SUPPLEMENTARY 



589 





Expendiiare. 






Rent and Water 




. £2 6 


4 


^lanure 




2 18 


3 


Seeds . 




2 3 


4 


Wheelbarrow 




9 


6 


Garden boots 




10 


6 




£8 7 


11 



Profit, £57, 15s. Od. 



Mr. Viucent started without kno\Yledo:e of oardenina: 



and had no greenhouse. 



Vigour and Frugality. 

Mr. George Jacob Holyoake wrote as follows in the 
Co-02Jerative Neivs : — Mr. Henry Pitman was, as he 
ever has been since congresses began, at the reporter's 
table, radiant, though it takes less to keep him alive 
than any one I know save Cardinal Manning. As the 
French say, " Long live Vegetarianism !" Eeferring to 
Mr. Axon, " Are we to conclude," says Mr. Holyoake, 
"that the cereal mind is brighter than the bovine ?" 

Charles Kingsley, in Alton Locke, referring to 
Crossthwaite the Chartist, wrote : " He was not only 
a water-drinker, but a strict vegetarian also, to which, 
perhaps, he owed a great deal of the almost preter- 
natural clearness, volubility, and sensitiveness of his 
mind." 

General Booth is described by a great journalist as 
" one of the most inspiring teachers of our time"; " in 
old age the same lithe, fiery, untrammelled, and rest- 
less spirit of his youth"; "a living example of the 
gospel of simplicity, purity, sanctity, sobriety." 



590 STRENGTH AND DIET 

In The Starh-Munro Letters, one of Dr. Conan 
Doyle's characters says : " I was able to recommend 
veo-etarianism, which I have found to act as a charm in 
such cases" (epilepsy). 

Mr. Miles won the Final Tennis M.C.C. Challenge 
Prize in 1903, of which he was already a holder, being 
proved, according to a newspaper account, " far and 
away the best amateur tennis and racquet player in 
the world." 

Food Value of Vegetable Albumen. 

Dr. Rutgers' experiments on himself and his wife, 
the results of which were published in Dr. Voit's 
Zeitschrift fiir Biologie, showed that vegetable 
albumen, weight for weight, is equivalent to animal 
albumen, the nitrogenous balance between income and 
output being equal, and health maintained. 

Peas and beans, however, were found to produce 
some discomfort. Acidity was less on the vegetable 
than on the mixed diet.^"^ 

The Value of Lentils. 

In a letter to the Times some twenty -five years 
ago Mr. W. Stevens, Superintendent of the Ham-yard 
Soup Kitchen, W., described lentils as "undoubtedly 
the very best ingredient for soup," and similar 
testimony was given before the Physical Deteriora- 
tion Committee. Still further back, about 1860, Mr. 
S. G. Young, of the Council of Education, said : 
" Lentils are much too nutritious to be eaten unmixed 
with other foods ; they are among the richest known 
of vegetable substances used as food." Analysis of 



SUPPLEMENTARY 591 

1 lb, of lentil seed gave : Water, 2 oz. 105 grs. ; casein, 
4 oz. 70 grs.; starch, 5 oz. 262 grs,; sugar, 140 grs.; 
fat, 1 oz. 153 grs,; mineral matter, 105 grs. 

Prevention of Colds. 

The following appeared in the Practitioner : ^^ A 
woman who for years suffered from violent colds, some- 
times very serious, has obtained immunity by attention 
to diet, and especially by drinking water copiously, 
and the use of a rough horse brush for the skin, accord- 
ing to the advice of a New York physician, " When- 
ever you eat a heavy, rich dinner — and let it be as 
seldom as possible, — omit the next meal, and substitute 
a quart of water. You can't take cold unless you get 
into a condition for it." Water taken with meals, says 
the Practitioner, does not count at all ; it is rather to 
be added to the side of the enemy. It must be taken 
before breakfast, and again just before retiring ; a 
C[uart should be sipped during three-quarters of an hour. 

Vegetarian Diet for Alcoholics. 

The warden of the Female Inebriates' Home, which 
has been already noticed, has informed Mr. H. Cocking 
that "since adopting this diet" the women (in bad 
cases) " are up and about in less than a fortnight," 
much less than the time previously required. " I 
receive women of all ages, from twenty up to seventy- 
six, and in no instance has it failed to suit them " — 
(A lady, who has kept a large stafi' of servants, to her 
kitchenmaid). 

On this matter the opinion of an American paper, 
the Pathfnder, of Los Angeles, may be quoted : 



592 STRENGTH AND DIET 

" With the elimination of meat [from the system] . . . 
the desire for other forms of dissipation is removed. . . . 
We regard meat-eating as the most dangerous habit 
that to-day afifects the race. . . . We know that the 
moral tone of every individual is lifted fully 75 per 
cent, when once meat is eliminated." 

Alcohol undermining Health. 

In speaking of the action of alcohol as a producer 
of disease, Sir Andrew Clark, senior physician to the 
London Hospital, declared that certainly more than 
three-fourths of the disorders in what we call " fashion- 
able life " arise from the use of this drug. " Perhaps 
the o-reater mass of the disorders, as distinct from the 
diseases, with which mankind is afflicted, arise from the 
abuse of this drug." " It is the frequent or habitual 
use of l)eer, etc., in small or moderate quantities, and 
not the occasional bout of heavy drinking, which does 
the harm." " Day by day . . . this little excess is 
doing its work. It upsets the stomach, the stomach 
upsets the other organs, and bit by bit, under this fair 
and genial and jovial outside, the constitution is being 
sapped," and then, suddenly, comes the severe and 
danojerous illness. 

Importance of Oil. 

Dr. G. Black says that vegetarians generally make 
the mistake of ignoring the importance of fats and 
oils in their dietary. Pine kernels, Brazil nuts, or a 
spoonful or two of pure olive or nut oil each day would 
do much to keep the body warm and healthy in cold 
weather. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 593 

Causes of Cancer and Insanity in India. 

According to the Encyclopcedia Britannica, there 
were, about 1881, 240,042 Christians and 171,542 
Mohammedans in Ceylon. In 1901 there were 
2,075,000 Buddhists, 360,000 Christians, 900,000 
Hindus, 240,000 Mohammedans. Coffee was grown 
to a large and increasing extent between 1850 and 
1873. The cultivation of tea and cocoa has taken its 
place. 

The palm-fruit furnishes the native with food, 
drink, and other materials. The chief staple of Ceylon 
is rice. 

[The West Province includes Colombo. The 
Soutli includes Galle. The Central seems wild and 
hilly. The North-West, the East, the North, and 
North Central, and Uva and Sabaragamuwa seem to be 
little Europeanised.] 

Sir Samuel Baker says in Eight Years in Ceylon, 
that the natives chew betel-nut (areca) composition 
continually, from which they are afflicted with cancer 
in the cheek ; also, they use largely the following 
stimulants and narcotics — arrack, tobacco, fungi, and 
Indian hemp. Hemp is still more used by the 
Malabars. 

In that part of the recent Judicial Statistics of 
British India ^* which deals with asylums for the insane 
(1902 and preceding years), it appears that the causes 
of insanity were, on an average for five years (1887-91), 
for each year : — 

Hemp habit . . 860 (about) 

Opium . .38 

Alcohol . . 188 

38 



594 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



For the five years, 1898-1902:— 

Hemp . . . 670 (about) 

Eating opium . . 26 

Smokiug opium . 7 

Alcoholism . . 150 

Of all the hioivn causes, hemp was by far the most 
effective, largely exceeding even heredity. 

Cancer in American Towns. 

The British American Journal states ^^ that care- 
fully compiled statistics show an increase of cancer in 
the last forty years in — 



Boston, of . 
San Francisco 
New York 
Philadelphia 
Baltimore . 
New Orleans 



28 to 85 deaths per 100,000 

16-5 to 103-6 

32 to 66 

34 to 70 

18 to 63 

15 to 82 



Foul Flesh for Food. 

In the course of a discussion on the meat supply,^^ 
Dr. Armstrong, of Newcastle-ou-Tyne, said that foreign 
meat was sent to us in varying conditions ; it was 
sheeted, and inspection was difficult. " Offal comes in 
boxes." Dr. Bond, of Holborn, said a very large 
amount of diseased meat was brought into London, 
quite unfit for food. 

Dr. Alexander Marsden, Chairman of the Cancer 
Hospital, London, stated in a letter to a newspaper 
(5th March 1901), that the first step urgently required 
to arrest the increase of cancer is to stop the sale of 



SUPPLEMENTARY 595 

diseased meat and other pernicious foods. Carcasses 
affected with "anthrax, foot and mouth disease, tuber- 
culosis, etc. , are dressed up " for the market, and pass 
undiscovered. The same dangerous practice is known 
also in the Colonies. 

On 6th December 1904, Dr. Collingridge, M.O.H. 
to the city of London, told the presiding Alderman at 
the Guildhall that certain quarters of beef seized were 
cancerous ; and that beef containing sarcoma is the 
most dangerous food imaginable. 

A very large percentage of the cattle killed for food 
is tuberculous. Much tuberculous meat is made into 
sausages, etc. ; much foul meat is insufficiently cooked. 
Often the interior of a large joint of meat does not 
reach, during cooking, the temperature fatal to bacilli. 

Colonel J. Lane Notter said that the Report of the 
Royal Commission clearly indicated that the danger 
[from tuberculous animals] is a real one, especially with 
regard to the meat of tuberculous bovines. 

The putrescent state of meat from healthy animals, 
besides the meat of diseased animals, may produce 
meat poisoning. 

" No doubt the flesh [of the pig] is affected by the 
unwholesome garbage on which the pig feeds." 

The pig is attacked by anthrax, tuberculosis, muco- 
enteritis, hog-cholera, trichina, and other parasites. 

Decomposing liesh may cause vomiting, diarrhoea, 
and great depression. 

Professor W. Hunting said that the meat of dead 
or dying animals and diseased animals is sent up to 
London for the food of its people. 

" Probably the most dangerous and offensive meat 
is used only for manufacture into prepared foods." 



596 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Dr. T. W. Hime said that " the pig, as a rule, gets 
uothino- but food of the most stinkino- character." 



Genesis of Cancer. 

In the article on the work and discoveries of the 
Cancer Research Committee, already quoted (p. 460),. 
the writer states that Professor Farmer and his 
colleagues have found that cancer cells split up to 
form new cells after the manner of reproductive tissue. 
Growths occur on plants which are cancerous in 
destructiveness. " Some kind of irritating stimulus 
applied to the plant's tissues will produce them. The 
birth of cancer consists in the application of some kind 
of irritating stimulus to the ordinary cells." Dr. 
Bashford and Dr. Murray have succeeded in grafting 
cancer into animals of the same species. 

Dr. Robert Bell believes that the falling away of 
health, which gives opportunity for the development 
of cancer, is due chiefly to vitiation of the blood, and 
that the prime factor in this is the overtaxing of the 
digesting and assimilating organs, especially by an 
excess of animal food. Those persons who eat least 
flesh of domestic animals are, as a rule, the healthiest. 
Much of the excessive flesh eaten is not digested, but 
decomposed, forming enterotoxins, and vitiating the 
blood. With constipation, there is much absorp- 
tion of fetid matter. Dr. Bell, further on in his 
pamphlet, relates that a journeyman butcher stated 
his opinion that 60 per cent, of stall-fed cattle have 
cancerous livers. The meat of cattle thus horribly 
diseased is sent to London, minus the incriminating 
portions. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 



597 



The Productiveness of the Earth. 

The same space of earth used for banana culture 
gives a hundred and thirty-three times the food-pro- 
duction of wheat, and forty-four times the food of 
potato. The same ground gives 33 lb. of wheat, 99 llj. 
of potatoes, 4000 lb. of bananas. The banana is much 
more nutritive than the potato. It can with advantage 
be used in the form of flour. ^^ 



Cost of Transport in England. 

Mr. R. J. Dyson -De verell writes : ^^ — 

A ton of apples, Folkestone to London, costs . 

„ California ,, „ 

British meat, Liverpool to London . 
Foreign meat . 
eggs, Galloway to London 

,, Denmark 

,, Russia 

,, Normandy 



plums, apples, or pears, Queenborough to London 15 



,, ,, Flushing to London 

English pianos, Liver^Dool to London 
Foreign Pianos ....... 

Nails, wires, tubes, Birmingham to London 

„ „ „ Germany .... 

English spades ....... 

German ........ 

Iron ore and steel rails charged per ton on American 

railways ....... 

Iron ore and steel rails charged per ton on English 

railways ........ 



£1 4 1 

1.5 8 
2 

1 .5 
4 U 
1 4 
1 2 
16 8 



12 6 
3 10 

1 .5 
10 9 

4 9 

1 1 9 
6 6 

6 3 

1 9 3 



Oppidanisra. 

Mr. Rees^ Evidence, Inter- Departmental Committee 
on Physical Trainirig. — Ayrshire rurals are, according 



598 STRENGTH AND DIET 

to the British Association Report, 4'15 in. taller and 
36 lb. heavier than the natives of Glasgow. The men of 
Exeter are Ij in. shorter and 15 lb. lighter than the 
neio'hbourino; men of South Devon. Natives of New- 
castle in the militia average 5 ft. 6*2 in., of Alnwick 
and Morpeth 5 ft. 7*19 in., of the country round 
5 ft. 8^ to 5 ft. 10 in., according to Dr. Beddoe. The 
cutlers of Sheffield, the men of Bristol, are below the 
average of the neighbourhood. Flamborough fishers, 
according to the British Association Report, are 2*9 in. 
taller and 24 '3 lb. heavier than the artisans of 
Sheffield. 

Still births, by the Registrar-General's reports, have 
increased 300 per cent, in the last thirty years, and 
many more than formerly of the children who survive 
must be feeble. 

Mr. Rees believes that the inhabitants of a 
well-managed " Garden City " might be positively 
better, physically, than the inhabitants of the 
country. 

The Young Generation in Toivns. 

The recruiting officers of Manchester say that the 
contrast between the young men who come from the 
country and those who come from the crowded districts 
of Manchester is alarming. These last " come to us 
with their fingers stained with cigarettes, and nearly 
all of them suffering from palpitation of the heart." 
At eighteen the chest measurement is only 28 or 29 
inches. 

"There is no more serious question before the 
nation." 



SUPPLEMENTARY 599 

Hygiene in Schools. 

The British Association for the Advancement of 
Science appointed in 1902 a committee to report "on 
the conditions of health essential to the carrying on of 
the work of instruction in schools." 

The committee advised that the Education Depart- 
ment should adopt or recognise some more thorough 
and practical test of a teacher's knowledge and experi- 
ence of the application of health conditions in school 
life. The health conditions were the followino- : — 

(1) Bodily nourishment ; (2) Clothing ; (3) Housing 
in schools ; (4) The working of the bodily functions and 
organs of sense ; (5) Physical exercise ; (G) Times to 
work and rest, including length of lessons and holidays ; 
(7) Healthy tone of mind and morals ; (8) Preventive 
and precautionary measures against infectious diseases. 

The Memorial, with Scheme, signed in 1904 by over 
14,000 medical men in favour of the teaching of 
hygiene, including the value of foods, has not received 
nearly as much attention as it deserves. It is a most 
admirable document. 

The Decli7ie of the Birth-Bate. 

In England, according to Mr. Havelock Ellis, tlie 
decline of the birth-rate has been, since 1876, 20 per 
cent, of the population, and in some of the large towns 
40 per cent. In the seventeenth century the average 
number of children was nearly 7, at the end of the 
eighteenth over 6, early in the nineteenth between 4 
and 5, late in the nineteenth below 4, and in parts 
only a little over 1. The birth-rate of Anglo-Saxon 



600 STRENGTH AND DIET 

Canada is low, of Australia very low, and of New 
Zealand low and falling. ^^ Meanwhile the Dutch of 
the lonely veldt, and the French Canadians, have 
families of 4 to 18. We win territory, but lose our 
race. 

Abstinence and Eyidurance. 

Major Skinner, during his great engineering cam- 
paign in the interior of Ceylon, lived out of doors, his 
only shelter being a leaf tent, and his only food for 
two months being rice, roots, five small chickens, a 
square inch of fish at each meal, a small cup of cofi'ee, 
rice-flour cake and biscuit, and a little cold tea or a 
glass of sherry and water. " This regime," he says, 
" brought me into such splendid condition that I could 
outrun anyone. I could leave all the athletes of the 
village behind me." His working staff" consisted of 
African soldiers, " the hardiest in the British army." 
They had savoury meals, salt beef, pork, rice, curry, 
arrack. Every man except himself was laid up. Before 
the close of the season Major Skinner suff"ered severely 
from sore legs, apparently the result of hardships. 
Three thousand miles of made roads, and many other 
works, testified to the value of his fifty years of incessant 
work.^^ 

Motive. 

It has been said of St. Francis, that not only was 
every man his brother, but every animal, — the sheep 
in the fields, the birds in the branches, the ass on 
which he rode, the bees who took refuge in his kind 
protection. He was the friend of everything that 
suff'ered or rejoiced — his heart rose to see the gladness 



SUPPLEMENTARY 601 

of nature, and melted over the distresses of his fellow- 
creatures. And by this divine right of nature, every- 
thing trusted in him.'-^ 

Shelley in this was like him. " For I loved all 
things with intense devotion." And he wished men 
and women to work on equal terms for the highest 
good. "Never will peace and human nature meet," 
till man and woman are free and equal in religious 
aspiration. 

Improved Infant Feeding. 

The Babies' Hospital in London, according to an 
article by Miss Elliston in The Daily Paper of 5th 
February 1904, obtains milk from a farm where the 
cows and dairymen are clothed with sterilised material, 
where the pails and milking-stools are sterilised, and 
where the milk is filtered through sterilised cotton 
wool, cooled down to 40 degrees, and separated into 
various proportions and strengths. The bottles are 
sent in refrigerators, and the mouthpieces covered with 
sterilised material. Each baby is fed with its particular 
milk at the proper temperature. 

Appendicitis, 

Professor Lefevre looks upon appendicitis as a result 
of improper feeding — rich fare, including oysters, crabs, 
fish, fowls, red meat, wines, coffee, and liqueurs. Sir 
Frederick Treves attributes the disease to hurried meals 
and indigestible food, such as pine-apple, ginger, nuts, 
tough meat, lobster, etc. 

An inquiry recently made in France showed that 



602 STRENGTH AND DIET 

appendicitis prevails much more among the troops 
stationed in France than in Algeria, and more among 
the troops than among the natives in Algiers. M. 
Chauvel ascribes the immunity of these to greater 
sobriety and vegetarian diet. 



Korean and Chinese Recoveries. 
Dr. Huo;h Weir wrote in the British Medical 

CD 

Journal for 4th June 1904 of the Koreans as remark- 
ably free from high arterial tension and from constipa- 
tion. He had seen more than a thousand patients, and 
was struck by the absence of this trouble. " Animal 
food is very little used by Koreans" [of the poorer 
classes]. Their staple is rice. 

Mrs. Earle tells of an interesting experience of an 
Englishman in China who astonished his doctor by a 
very rapid recovery from dysentery through refusing 
beef-tea, medicines, etc., and living on milk and white 
of egg, and afterwards chiefly on bread. The doctor 
had long wondered why the Chinese got well so 
quickly, and supposed it might be " because they 
never eat meat." 

Patent and Natural Foods. 

The Lancet of 5th July 1902 contains an address 
by Dr. R. Hutchison, in which he states that natural 
are in general superior to patent foods. Thus butter 
and cream are better than cod-liver oil, and cheaper ; 
beef extracts have little value as foods (vejos, a vege- 
table extract, appears to be more nutritious) ; and it is 
vastly more expensive to rear a child on extracts and 



SUPPLEMENTARY 603 

artificial products. Of the whole rauge of artificial 
foods Dr. Hutchison most commends those derived 
from milk, such as plasmon and casumen. These 
contain eighty to ninety per cent, of pure proteid. But 
is it desirable for healthy people to take their meals in 
so concentrated a form ? 



Juvenile Crime and Heredity. 

There is a growing precocity in crime. 

From 1884 to 1898 nearly 1000 Prussian children 
killed themselves between ten and fifteen. 

The increased criminality of the young in France 
has already been noticed in the Introduction. Among 
nearly 15,000 inmates of reformatories in the United 
States, more than 9000 were between twelve and 
sixteen. 

The sixth generation of a certain family was esti- 
mated to consist of about 5000 persons. Of these, 
1750 were traced. Their percentage of crime, pauper- 
ism, and disease was astounding. They filled thousands 
of pages in the records of charitable societies, and were 
well known to the police in every district where they 
w^ere found. 

The examination system has been called the curse 
of modern education. One observer states that three 
out of four children lose weioht durinoj examination. 
The effect is often that of a g;rave disease disturbinsf 
nutrition and brain." 

It seems to be time for education to make a new 
departure. Among the means of reducing the diseased 
brain development of children, there can, I think, 
be no doubt that better food, physical and manual 



G04 STRENGTH AND DIET 

training, ethical teaching, and physiological care are 
important. 

A71 Illustration. 

A child, who had been to the field to feed and 
fondle his pet lambs, entered the kitchen to return a 
plate. The cook was not there. On the table was an 
open book. The child read what was before him : 
^'Sheep's head. Clean the head (split in half), take 
out the eyes, remove the tongue, remove also the gums 
and teeth and nostrils, and leave in a j)an of warm 
water, with half a cup of vinegar on it, for an hour. 
. . . Serve with melted butter, and the brain, which 
should be boiled separately, chopped small, together 
with some parsley." 

The child read no more in that book, but flew to 
the sunny woods, and sobbed aloud to Nature. 

But these recipes are to be found calmly recorded 
by a Christian for Christians : " Buy the lobsters alive, 
and choose those that are heavy and full of motion. 
. . . Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, put in 
the lobster [and hear it scream], and keep it boiling 
quickly. 

" Put the pig into cold water directly it is killed. 
. . . Make a slit down the belly, take out the entrails, 
well clean the nostrils and ears. . . . Take off the 
feet, and loosen and leave sufficient skin to turn neatly 
over." 

Let us rush to an antidote ascainst the foul taste 
that these devilries leave behind. 

William Cowper wrote concerning his tame 
hare — 



SUPPLEMENTARY 605 

•' Yes, thou may'st eat thy loread, and lick the hand 
That feeds thee ; thou may'st frolic on the floor 
At evening, and at night retire secure 
To thy straw couch, and slumber uualarmed : 
For I have gained thy confidence, have pledged 
All that is human in me to protect 
Thine unsuspecting gratitude and love." 



And William AVatson on the cosmic unity : 

" For lo ! creation's self is one great choir ; 
And what is Nature's order but the rhyme 
"^^Tiereto in holiest unanimity 
All things with all things move unfalteringly. 
Infolded and communal from their prime ? " 

And— 

" In faultless rhythm the ocean rolls, 

A rapturous silence thrills the skies ; 
And on this earth are lovely souls 

That softly look with aidful eyes. 
Though dark, God, Thy course and track, 

I think Thou must at least have meant 
That nought that lives should wholly lack 

The things that are more excellent." 

The only possible happiness of mankind will be 
in harmony with the spirit of humanity, the Soul of 
all souls, the Life of life. 



CHAPTER XV 

Conclusion 

In the Introduction to this volume a general statement 
was made of the case for a consideration of the question 
of food in modern conditions of civilisation, in view 
of the j^erils, not only to health, but to the very 
existence of a great nation. 

Decay was proved to follow the congestion of 
multitudes of people in the closely built streets of 
towns with impure air, ill-nourishing or improper 
food and drink, and other elements making for 
demoralisation. 

The hioh death-rate of infants, the bad health of 
children, and the rapidly diminishing birth-rate of the 
British race were noted ; also the increase of nervous 
diseases, insanity, suicides, child criminality, and the 
many disorders due to dyspepsia and alcoholism among 
both men and women. 

The absence of the required space and gardens 
for every family in towns, and the extirpation by 
antiquated land laws of the rural population, were 
regarded as amongst the most serious prime causes of 
degeneration. The expulsion of the people from the 
country is followed by the extinction of much of the 
best stock of the British race. 

In the First chapter the opinions of the greatest 

606 



CONCLUSION 607 

physiologists were shown to l)e favourable to food 
derived from plants rather than the bodies of beasts 
for human sustenance. And the natural repulsion to 
murderous acts and to carnivorous eating was illustrated 
by the experience of children, and the feelings expressed 
by poets and other humane writers. 

In the Second chapter some account was given of 
the calculated and theoretic physiological value of 
various foods. 

In the Third the full equality and even superiority 
of herbivora and frugivora to carnivora was shown in 
strength, sagacity, and endurance, both as individuals 
and as tribes. 

In the Fourth and Fifth chapters some particulars 
were given of the physical and moral prosperity of 
people who lived on the products of plants in earlier 
periods of the w^orld's history. 

In the Sixth chapter the diet of races and nations 
in recent times were set forth and on a summary it 
was computed that on the whole those which derived 
their chief nutriment from plants were decidedly the 
strongest. 

The Seventh chapter showed how well communities 
and armies have thriven on simple fare. 

The Eighth chapter comprehended a long chain of 
evidence from personal experience of the value of 
frugal living to body and mind. 

The Ninth chapter contained a mass of medical 
opinions and experiences to the same effect. 

The Tenth chapter dealt with the baneful iniluence, 
on persons and on the race, of stimulants and narcotics 
habitually used as food and drink. 

The Eleventh chapter alluded to the prevalence of a 



608 STRENGTH AND DIET 

very large amount of disease, including insanity, due to 
the increased misuse and excess of food, and dealt 
particularly with the question of the growth of cancer. 

The Twelfth chapter gave a short account of 
remarkable successes in athletics gained by vegetarians 
or by persons trained on a " natural " diet. 

The Thirteenth chapter exhibited the exceedingly 
wide practice of adulteration in food and drink, to the 
great loss of the mass of consumers in the grip of a 
dishonest civilisation. 

The Fourteenth chapter added some further supple- 
mentary information, including recent discoveries of 
considerable theoretic interest and great practical 
value arrived at by a course of strict experimental 
investigation. 

The whole trend of the inquiry with which I have 
dealt leads, in my view, to a very sure conviction that 
science, humanity, hygiene, patriotism, consideration 
for the 230or, religious consistency, and the sense of joy 
in beauty, the harmony with the " choir invisible " 
which gives zest and value to life, agree in com- 
mending simplicity in diet and abstinence from a share 
in cruelty and slaughter. 

Most of those few among Western nations who 
have fairly tried the frugal diet can hardly look without 
horror upon the bloody corpses hanging out in the 
streets, and would loathe a return to the customary 
feasting upon the limbs and organs of their animal 
friends. The whole business becomes sickening to 
their senses, to their intelligence, and to their hearts. 

There are four main elements of national strength 
by which a race is able not only to thrive but to 
endure for ages. These are religion, country life, or a 



CONCLUSION 609 

fair distribution of land/ the sacredness of the ftimily, aud 
€v(f)poo-vvr], sobriety, or reasonable restraint of ambition ; 
but these may indeed be comprehended with all else that 
is excellent under the one title of religion understood as 
practical devotion to the ideal good of humanity. 

Christ said : "By this shall all men know that 
ye are My disciples, that ye love another " ; and 
Gotama : " Self-control and love, tender regard and 
exalted spiritual love for others, reverence, lowliness, 
diligence, , . . overcoming the evil by good, . . . 
goodwill without measure toward the whole world, 
holiness, eventual sinlessness, and eternal peace ; • . . 
this state of heart is the best in the world." 

Now it is C[uite clear that this teaching is to a very 
great extent flouted and abhorred in social aff'airs, 
in trade, in politics, in the daily life of millions of 
Christians who regularly attend their church or chapel, 
as much as by millions who profess no religion at all. 

When we see that most owners of land have ren- 
dered it impossible for their fellow-countrymen to live 
securely, or under fair terms, on the land over which 
these owners are for the moment holding an intrusted 
power ; when they do in eff'ect make the country barren 
of humanity, which ought to be thickly covered with 
gardened villages and joyous homes ; and drive the 
peasantry into the masses of the towns, to ruin and 
decay ; when we see traders, regardless of the lives and 
health of their neighbours, ready to use false weights, 
false measures, adulterated and even poisoned goods ; 
when even the milk on which the lives of children 
depend can hardly be obtained of good quality ; when 
the richer people of Europe and America spend on 
harmful excess more than suflicient to keep in spacious 



610 STRENGTH AND DIET 

comfort the toilers from whom all wealth is derived ; 
when we see Parliaments careless to spend five minutes 
in hearing of the plagues and famines of multitudes of 
suft'erins: cultivators, and eager to crowd and crane in 
listening to small personalities, however long drawn 
out ; when, in the streets and theatres and restaurants 
and churches we see a profligacy of luxurious dresses 
and ornaments, a barbarous pride in fashion ; when we 
see cruelty in greed far exceeding that of a beast of 
prey ; when we see nations, on false pretences and as 
a result of the popular perversion by innumerable 
channels of governing mendacity, committing great 
crimes — -burglaries, murders, and compression, — there 
can be no doubt that religion as a vital principle has 
little honour, or that faith, as when Christ spoke, 
scarcely comes to as much as a grain of seed here and 
there in the season that should be harvest. 

Barbarities and blind selfishness are not confined 
to one class ; they pervade the material of the nations 
whose " wealth accumulates while men decay." 

In the Report by the Committee on Intemperance 
for the Lower House of Convocation of the Province of 
Canterbury, the testimony of the governors and chap- 
lains of workhouses was that 70 to 80 per cent, of the 
inmates became paupers through drink. 

The curve of apprehensions for crime follows closely 
the curve for alcoholic exjoenditure. Too often high 
wages, which ought to be used for private and public 
benefit, increase the sum of misery and criminality. 

Nations are not ruined by poverty, but by money 
outweighing their capacity or will-power and blinding 
their discretion. 

At the same time, with increase of luxury comes 



CONCLUSION 611 

the decline of the femily, the foil of the birth-rate in 
centres of wealth and intelligence, and in many cases 
a, neglect of the ancient piety of the home, which is 
the source of true citizenship. 

Disease of body and mind rapidly increase, and 
threaten the very existence of some of the finest races. 
We have seen that some of the best native tribes of 
the world, suddenly touched by the products of 
civilisation, rapidly destroy themselves ; some of the 
civilised races of Europe have the same tendency, but 
the process is slower ; and they flatter themselves all 
the time with their advances in mechanical contrivance, 
art, science, and new cures for new diseases, which 
ought never to have arisen. 

" Look round," exclaimed Dickens, " upon this world 
of odious sights — millions of immortal creatures have 
no other world on earth, — at the lightest mention of 
which humanity revolts, and dainty Delicacy living in 
the next street stops her ears and lisps, ' I don't 
believe it ! ' . . . Then should we stand appalled to 
know that where we generate disease to strike our 
children down, there also we breed infancy that knows 
no innocence, youth without modesty or shame, maturity 
that is mature in nothing but in suffering and guilt. 
. . . Oh, for only one night's view of the pale phantoms 
risino- from the scenes of our too lono- neglect ! . . . 
Brio^ht and blest the morninof that should rise on such 
a night; for men, delayed no more by stumbling- 
blocks of their own making, would then apply them- 
selves to remedial reform (owning one duty to the 
father of one family), and make the world a better 
place." 

Much time is lost in discussing whether the race is 



612 STRENGTH AND DIET 

deo-eneratiiiff or not. It is sufficient to know that 
tilings are exceedingly bad, and require reform all 
round. It is profitless to be either optimist or pessi- 
mist, in the current phrase. It is the duty of every 
patriot, of every member of the community, to be a 
meliorist. An immense power of amelioration comes 
forth from man, when once he determines that he has 
in himself the control over the future which he 
anciently ascribed to Providence. " The Word is very 
nigh to him." Man can himself build up health, and 
strength, and create peace, and justice, and mercy, and 
security against enemies, and contentment, by the 
mind and heart which have been given him. Every 
talent needs to be pressed into the service of humanity, 
neither buried in a napkin nor egotistically laid out as 
a self-cumulative fund. 

No more distinct conclusion has been reached by 
science than this, that the environment has great 
effect in determining the character and life, that the 
kindest surroundings will do much for many children 
far gone in physical decline, and that the race, in right 'I 
conditions, may recover much lost ground. It is time 
for us to turn from the improvement of machinery to 
the improvement of nations. 

When the nature of man and conditions of hap|)i- 
ness are better understood, the poor animals that have 
never transo-ressed the law as we ourselves transQ-ress 
will be allowed to have claims upon us for fair treat- 
ment, and we shall recognise, like some of the most 
admirable societies now on earth, that we can enjoy 
their living presence better than their dead bodies, 
and that no such profession as that of habitual 
slaughterers is consistent with our better feelings, 



CONCLUSION 613 

complete health, and Christian or human aspira- 
tions. 

It is in reality a base but unthought-of connivance 
at a very horrible and revolting business to devour 
the corpse of the beast, in the rending of which we 
are too sensitive and refined to take an active part. 

When temperance and frugality are accepted as 
religiously binding, not only for our own selves, but 
for the sake of regeneration, for the happy life of our 
children and their descendants, whom we ought to 
care for, as if beseeching us, untold resources will be 
set free for the development of productive trades, 
commerce, agriculture, repatriation on the land, recon- 
struction of villages, and a thousand amenities hitherto 
restricted and hindered. Imagine the uplifting of the 
whole community by getting free from the mass of 
disease, crime, pauperism, and incapacity, and by the 
productive use of three hundred millions now annually 
wasted. Moreover, one may hope that when the smell 
of the shambles passes away, the whole tone would 
be raised, the clash of interests less noxious, the display 
of luxury less repulsive, the common ways more 
pleasant, and society more fraternal. 

We have reason for hope that by a true natural 
training in all that most concerns the strength of body 
and mind and heart, and a true ethical religious 
teaching, or calling forth of qualities on which the 
conduct of life depends — in short, by a sensible human 
education, a very great addition may be made to the 
faculties of the race, resulting in more self-control, a 
fuller and more joyous existence, and a prospering 
patriotism, with goodwill towards a friendly world for 
aoes to come. 



I 



APPENDIX. 



The following notes may be useful to persons desiring 
to adopt an improved dietary, with the object of 
increasing strength or efficiency. A state of apparent 
health, without full efficiency or full enjoyment of life, 
is exceedingly common among the over-nourished ; on 
the other hand, the want of health and strength among 
the ill-nourished is obvious, thousfh often not more 
serious. 

]\Iany nations have the power of very greatly 
increasing physical and mental power, by far the most 
important of all forms of energy, by a more scientific 
treatment of the subject of nutrition in common 
practice. Of course, everyone must exercise discretion. 

Children do well on milk, porridge, good bread 
and butter ; potatoes, or rice, or maize, with refined 
olive oil ; sugar in moderate amount ; some fruit and 
vegetables, and cold water between meals. Each of 
the following are alone quite sufficient for healthy 
development, and would maintain the young genera- 
tion at a high level of strength : — 

1. Oatmeal or wheatmeal porridge, milk, sugar, 
some bread and butter, some vegetables or fruit. 

2. Eice, macaroni, or maize, with butter or oil ; 
})rown bread, cheese or nuts or almonds, sugar, milk, 
some green vegetables occasionally, or fruit. 



61G STRENGTH AND DIET 

3. Oatmeal, bread and butter, or rice ; fisli or flesh 
(a little) ; milk, sugar, some fruit or nuts occasionally. 

As a matter of fact, wholemeal bread or oatmeal 
porridge, with plenty of milk, is almost alone sufficient 
for full nourishment. A moderate amount of sugar, 
and potatoes or green vegetables may be added with 
advantage in many cases ; or else nuts, cheese, almonds, 
or pine kernels. 

All these diets have been proved through many 
generations adequate and thoroughly wholesome. Of 
course, many variations of material and of cooking 
may be made without affecting the value of the 
alimentation. 

For persons over sixteen and under forty-seven, 
there is a really endless variety of dishes obtainable 
from plant products, many of them very much more 
palatable than the ordinary articles of the customary 
bill of fare. There are hundreds of ways of serving 
rice, with or without cheese or fruit, in which Italians 
and Indians are especially skilled. It would be a good 
thing to introduce whole rice to Europe. There is no 
better dish than risotto, properly cooked ; riz au 
fromage, and macaroni or spaghetti with grated cheese, 
and rice with beans or lentils, and wholemeal puddings, 
with fruit, are good for luncheon or dinner. 

The following fare for three meals is sufficient 
for full sustenance, and better than the ordinary fare 
for health, but is merely given as an examj)le. The 
vegetarian dietary is capable of daily variations for an 
indefinite time when desired, and most guides for 
cookery only deal with a few of these. (The articles 
named between parentheses are unnecessary additions. ) 

Breakfast. — Oatmeal or other porridge. Toast. 



APPENDIX 617 

Cocoa, or water, or milk with a dash of coffee or tea. 
(Eggs or fruit. Pine kernels or almonds. Marmalade 
or apple jelly. Various fancy breads. Fish.) 

Liincheon or Dinner. — ^^Lentil, pea, bean, celery, 
or potato soup. Spaghetti or macaroni au gratin, or 
risotto with grated cheese or lentil sauce, or rice with 
tomatoes, or semolina, or batter, or Yorkshire pudding, 
or polenta with olive oil, or savouries of some pulse 
and vegetables and herbs, or potatoes roasted, steamed,, 
fried, or creamy, with sauce, or baked beans with 
tomato sauce, or pie of vegetables (Irish stew) with 
wholemeal crust, or melted cheese on toast (Welsh 
rarebit), bread and raisin pudding, or rice in some 
form, or any plain or sweet pudding, or stewed apples, 
prunes, figs, pears, apricots, plums, peaches, black- 
berries, cherries, strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, 
greengages. Fancy breads, rusks, biscuits, nuts, 
almonds, raisins. 

Dinner or Supper. — Some of the lighter articles of 
the above ; some savoury dish or pudding, or else 
wholemeal bread or toast and butter, vegetal )les, thin 
cocoa or lime juice or water. If this is the principal 
meal of the day, it may approximate to that given 
for luncheon. 

Either plenty of porridge and milk, or else whole- 
meal bread, or some cheese, almonds, nuts, or other 
proteid or plasmon food should be brought into every 
day. Lentils, beans, and peas are highly nourishing, 
but should be used sparingly, and not at all by the 
gouty or those affected by uric acid. 

A medical authority advises, for dyspeptic people : 
proper intervals between meals (this is always obli- 
gatory), avoidance of hurry, and of exertion immedi- 



C18 STRENGTH AND DIET 

ately before or after meals ; stale bread, toast, rusk ; 
very young peas or beans, broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels 
sprouts, celery, endive, lettuce, well boiled ; puree of 
vegetables ; roast apples ; milk ; whiting, sole, flounder, 
haddock, plaice, brill ; poultry, boiled or roast ; mutton ; 
lightly boiled eggs may be tried ; no pastry, batter, 
cream, soups, tea, coffee. Thin cocoa or cocoa-nibs is 
allowed. For constipation, fresh fruit and vegetables, 
wholemeal bread and porridge, oils, fats, cream, butter; 
thin coffee or cocoa. 

Solid five o'clock tea, and other between-meals are 
utterly condemned by doctors. 

Some excellent partly cooked foods have been in- 
troduced in recent years, which are of much service to 
the dyspeptic, and indeed to all busy people who are 
not liviuQ- an outdoor life. The main cure is to stick 
to a few simple dishes, to avoid stimulants and 
narcotics, and to drink water either hot or cold. For 
everybody it is a mistake and wasteful of energy to 
drink at meals ; the time for drinking is about three 
or four hours after or one hour before. 

For persons above forty-seven, it is of the greatest 
importance to reduce the bulk and richness of meals 
considerably, with the object of avoiding indigestion, 
nervous breakdowns, or other troubles, and of favouring 
efhciency for the future. Some find much advantage 
not only in reducing their diet at meals, but in cutting 
out one meal altogether. It is quite certain that many 
old people live much more happily on less than half 
their previous fare. 

Probably the best plan is to make a. light repast in 
the morning and evening, and a larger one between 
one and three. 



APPENDIX 619 

To promote sleep, a little porridge with milk or 
cream for supper is excellent, and, of course, coftee and 
tea should be wholly given up ; this may easily be 
done, without headaches, by gradually reducing the 
strenoth and substitutins; hot water or thin cocoa for 
the stimulants. A well-chosen vegetarian way of 
living has a really wonderful effect after a year or 
two in reducing the severity and frequency of colds, 
and in dissipating common ailments. This 1 know 
from my own experience and observation. On the 
other hand, the habitual cough perpetually heard in 
hotels and clubs is an expression of physiological 
discontent w^itli a very different regime. 

Further particulars of diet for the utmost bodily 
and mental efficiency may be found in the details 
of habitual national fare (such as the Japanese) and 
in the medical recommendations given in this book. 
But a great deal of wisdom may be summed up by 
saying that with simple fare and good cooking 
nearly every one will find himself able to enjoy 
life, and dismiss the subject from his thoughts with 
pleasure. 



NOTES 

— ♦ — 

PEEFACE 

^ First Conditions of Human Prosperity. (Longman.?.) 

INTEODUCTIOX 

1 Dr. Vivian Poore, F.R.C.P., M.D., B.S. Clinical Journal, Jan. 9, 
1901. 

- Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D., F.R.S., on " Milk for the Multi- 
tude," Sanitary Journal, May 1904. 

3 The Diminishiny Birth-Eafe. John W. Taylor. M.Sc, M.D., F.R.C.S. 
(Balliere, Tindall, & Co.) 

* Tlie Aristocracy of Health. Mary Foote Henderson. 

° Century Mat/azine, ISTov, 1903. Dr. Buckley. 

^ " Milk for the Multitude." Address to the Sanitary Inspectors' 
Association. Sanitary Journal, May 1904 ; also now published sejiarately. 

" " Degeneracy — Physical, Mental, and ]\Ioral." 

s Infant Life Protection. T. N. Kelynack, M.D., M.R.C.P., Third 
International Congress for the Welfare and Protection of Children, 1902. 

^ Public Health in EuroiKcin Capitals. (Sonnenschein.) 1896. 

1" " Infantile Mortality." By A. E. Harris, L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. Trans. 
Sanit. Inst., 1882-3. 

^^ New Liberal Revieio, August 1903. 

^2 British Medical Journal, vol. i., 1903. 

13 "The Collection, Contamination, and Distribution of Milk." J. 
"W. Brittlebank, M.R.C.V.S. Quarterly Journal, Sanit. Inst., Jan. 1904. 

i-i A Plea for the Infants. Harvey Hilliard, M.R.C.S. (Eng.), 
L.R.C.P. (Lond.). From Tlie Practitioner, Oct. 1902. 

1^ Journal of State Medicine. March 1904. " Milk Depots." Thomas 
D. Lister, M.D., L.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., B.S. 

i« Daily News, Oct. 28, 1903. 

^~ See article by Mr. Albert Broadbent in Daily News, Sept. 10, 1903. 
Also Daily Mail to the same effect. 

^s<'The Art of Living Healthily." Albert Broadbent. Health and 
Strength Magazine, This no doubt refers to Mr. Rowntree's work. 

621 



622 STRENGTH AND DIET 

1^ See Veijetarian Messenger, Aug. 1903. 

20 The Young Man, March 1904. 

21 Dr. Thomas, B.A., LL.D. Daibj News, Oct. 16, 1903. 

22 Healthy Dwellings, p. 31. Sir Douglas Galton, F.R.S. 

23 Politico-Anthropological lieview. 

2* Pall Mall Gazette, about Nov. 1903. See French Official Reports. 
25 Daihj Neivs, Nov. 24, 1903. 

2C 27ie Causation of Disease. 1889. By Harry Campbell, M.D., B.S., 
F.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. (Lewis.) 

2' See Daily News, March 4, 1904. 

28 Biographia Clinica. Dr. Gould, Philadelphia. 

29 May 21, 1904. 
80 See j>osf, p. 127. 

31 The Gist of Japan. Peery. (Oliphant Anderson & Co.) 

CHAPTER I 

Pkoper Diet of Man 

1 Cuvier, Animal Kingdom, vol. i. p. 38. 

2 Vol. i. p. 47. 

3 r/ie Natural Food of Man, p. 33. 

* Natural History of the Human Teeth, p. 120. 1771. 

* Linncei Amenitates Academical, vol. x. p. 8. 

^ Works, vol. X. p. 20. See Gassendi's Letter to Van Helmont. 
' Hist. Plant., lib. i. cap. 24. See Evelyn's Acetctria,^. 170. 

8 9th edition. 

9 6th edition, 1867, p. 219. 

10 " Foods for Man." Longmans' Magazine, 1888. 

11 A Manual of Practical Hygiene, 1883, p. 204, 

12 See Eating for Strength. M. L. Holbrook, M.D., Professor of Hygiene, 
New York Medical College. 

13 Fruits and Farinacea. (Ideal Publishing Union Limited.) 
!■* Encyclop. Britann., 9th edition, " Anthropology." 

15 A Study of Animal Life. J. Arthur Thomson. (John Murray.) 
1*5 Encyclop. Britann., supplement to the 9th edition, " Pathology." 
i'^ Descent of Man, p. 156. 
13 Darioin's Letters, vol. iii. 

19 Practical Dietetics, revised 1902. 

20 "The Natural Diet of Man." J. J. Bell, L.R.C.P.L, L.R.C.S.I. 
Vegetarian Messenger, July 1904. 

21 See reference to "Longevity," pp. 76, 123, 132, 192, 285, 286, 288, 
295, 301, 304, infra. 

22 " L'Ordre des Primates." Socie'te d' Anthropologie, vol. iv. 

23 Hygiene, 2nd edition. 



i 



NOTES 623 

-•* " The Animal as Prime Mover." 

•^ Scammel : Thurston's "Animal as Prime Mover," p. 74. 

^^ The Causation of Disease. (Lewis, 136 Gower Street.) 

2^ Studies of Nat ore. 

28 Herald of Health, November 1902. 

20 " Foods for Man." Longmam' Magazim, 1888. 
^^ Acetaria. John Evelyn. 

21 Diet in Relation to Aye and Activity. 

32 An Essay on Abstinence from Aninial Food as a Moral Duty. Joseph 
Ritson, 1802. 

33 Century Review, Feb. 1904. 
3* Health Lecture, 1886. 

3'' Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1902. 

36 Tract I. 

3? Essay on Regimen. 

38 Note to his edition of Swift's Works. 

3'' HealtWs Improvcrnent , 1746. 

'^^ Essay on Man. 

*'^ Curiosities of Food. Peter L. Simmonds. 1850. Hee Sydney Smith's: 
Letters. 

•'2 The Nature of Alan. (Heinemann.) 

43 «0n Vegetarianism," Humane Revieiv, Jan. 1901. 

*^ Soul of a Peoj)le. Fielding. 

*^ Vegetarian Messenger, Aug. 1903. See Life of Father Dolling. 

^'^ Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1901. 

•*" " Cruelty before Slaughter." By Alfred Russell. Vegetarian 
Messenger, Jan. 1902. 

CHAPTEK II 

Values of Foods 

' " The Animal as Prime Mover." E. PL Thurston, Smithsonian 
Report, 1896. 

2 Haliburton's Handbook of Physiology, 5th ed., p. 463, being the 
18th ed. of Kirke's Handbook. 1903. (John Murray.) 

3 A Treatise on Hygiene. Edited by Mr. Shirley Murphy and Dr. 
Thomas Stevenson. (J. & A. Churchill.) 

* See Encyclopcedia Britannica, 9th edition, " Dietetics." See also 
Report of the Massachusetts Bureau of Labour, 1884. 

* See Carpenter's Human Physiology, and other works. 

® Diseases of the Stomach. By John C. Hemmeter, M.D., Philos.D.,. 
Professor in the Medical Department, University of Baltimore. 
' Avenues of Health, quoting authorities. 
8 De Bella Gallico. See also Froude's Cassar. 



624 STRENGTH AND DIET 

CHAPTEK III 

The Food of Animals 

^ Library of Eniertaining Knowledge. "Vegetables used for the Food 
of Man," p. 101. 

- The Prolongation of Life. Dr. Dudgeon, 
^ JVood's Natural History, vol. i, p. 163. 

* Vegetarian, May 14, 1898. 

^ Science Siftings, Nov. 14, 1903. 
** Scientific American. 
^ Longevity. 

^ More Letters of Cliarles Darwin, vol. ii. 

^ " The Sanitation of the Alimentary Canal." By Josiah Oldfield, 
>D.C.L., M.A., M.R.C.S. British Sanitarian, Periodical. 

CHAPTER IV 

Diet of Ancient Peoples 

1 Smith's Fruits and Furinacea. 

2 Eollin's Ancient History, vol. i. 

3 Science in the Kitchen. Mrs. Kellogg. See also p. 303. 

* Nineteenth Century, May 1885. 

^ Encyclopcedia Biblica, article " Food." 

^ Hastings' Dictionary of the Bible See also Smith's Dictionary of the 
Bible. 

^ " The Feeding of the Soldier." Gentleman's Magazine, Dec. 1902. 

* Higher Econo'inics of Diet. The Rev. J. Todd Ferrier. 
^ Vegetarian Messenger, April 1901. 

^•^ Graham's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 188. 

^1 See Ritson on Abstinence from Animal Food. 

1^ Romesh C. Dutt's Civilisation of India. The People of India. 
Edited by Alfred Webb. 

'^ See chap. iv. 

1* Vol. ii. p. 127. 

^^ March of the Ten Tliousand. 

1" Xenophon's Anabasis. See Miles' Avemies to Health. 

1" Encyclopaedia Britannica, 9th edition, article " Monasticism." 

^^ Hoio to Live on Sixpence a Day. T. L. Nichols, M.D. 

^^ Writings of Clement of Alexandria. Translated by the Rev. W. 
iVilson. (T. & T. Clark.) 

-" Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1902. 

-^ The Natural Food of Man. Densmore. 

-2 Lectures on Physiology. Prof. W. Lawrence, 1823. 



NOTES 625 

23 How to proloiuj Life. C. W. de Lacy Evans, M.R.C.S.E. 

2* Science in the Kitchen. Mrs. Kellogg. 

2' Greece and the Greeks. Talbot. 

2® 2 Samuel, chap. xvii. 

^''Miscellaneous JVorJcs, "Acetaria." John Evelyn. See " Pliilo de 
Vit. Contemp.," Joseph. Antiq., lib. xxii. cap. ix. 

-^ I am unable to discover the authority for this. In chap. xxvi. of 
Epictetus there is a general defence of plain living, quoting Diogenes, 
Cleanthes, and Socrates. 

-"-' Book xviii. These extracts I have gathered from his works. 

^o Plato's Reiyuhlic, Jowett, book ii. p. 243. 

®^ Mepublic, book iii. 



CHAPTEK V 

Diet — Middle Ages and Later 

^ Mediaeval England, p. 303. 
- History of Domestic Manners. Wright. 

•* *' The Xonne's Priest." See Annals of British Peasantry. Garnier 
■* Garnier's British Peasantry. 

^ English Monastic Life. F. A. Gasquet. (Methuen.) 
® Encyclopcedia Britannica, 9th ed., article " Trappists." 
^ Statistical Account of the British Empire. M'Culloch. 
8 See Social Life in Scotland. 1900. (A. & C. Black.) 
^ History of England, vol. i. p. 329. 
^•^ Young Folks' History of the United States. 

^^ London in the Time of the Tudors. By Sir "Walter Besant. (A, & C. 
Black.) 1904. 

^- Hie Rise of the Dutch Republic. Motley. 



CHAPTER VI 

Diet of Eaces and Xations 

^ See Life and Labour in London, by Charles Booth ; also Hoto the 
Poor Live, by G. R. Sims ; also London Labour and the London Poor ; 
also No. 5 John Street ; also The Bitter Cry of Outcast London, — for a general 
account of the state of the poor. 

- Report of the Committee on Physical Deterioration. 

' Ritson. On Abstinence from Animal Food. 

* Douglas's Description of the East Coast of Scotland. 1782. 

'■' Writing about 1700. 
40 



626 STRENGTH AND DIET 

^ Wealth of Nations. 

'' Fruits a)id Farina<:ea. Smith. See Sir F. Eden's State of the 
Poor. 

8 The Irish Crisis. C. E. Trevelyan. 1848. " Food of the Peas- 
antry." 

^ Vegetarian, June 4, 1898. 

^^ Hov; the English Workman Lives. By a German Coal Miner. 1899. 
(P. S. King & Sons.) 

^^ Digestion and Diet. Sir William Roberts. 
^2 Curiosities of Food. Peter Lund Simmons. 

13 Tlie Life of Uohert Owen. By Lloyd Jones. 1890. Vol. i. p. 140. 
Quoting from The Manufacturinrj Po^mlation of England. By P. Gaskell. 
1833. 

" 77(6 Outer Isles. Miss A. Goodrich Freer. 1903. 
15 The Nineteenth Century. 1885. 
i« Vegetarian, July 16. 1898. 
1' Vegetarian, Dec. 3, 1898. 

1^ See TJie Political Science Quarterly (American), Dec. 1900. See 
War and Economics. By Mr. Robinson. 

19 " Condition of the Industrial Classes in Foreign Countries." Re- 
ports of H.M. Diplomatic and Consular Agents. 

20 Further Reports, 1872. 

21 French Life in Town and Country. 

22 Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 

23 See Vegetarian, Sept. 10, 1898. 
2* Contemimrary Reviev), Oct. 1903. 

25 Encyclopedia Britannica. " Sicily." 

26 Rural Italy. By W. N. Beauclerk, Secretary in H.M. Diplomatic 
Service. 

2' Italian Life in Town and Country. 

28 See Vegetarian, May 14, 1898. 

2^ In a Tuscan Garden. (John Lane.) 

30 Italy. Deecke. . 1904. 

31 Riviera Nature Notes. By C. C. Casey. 1903. 

32 Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 

33 A Treatise on Hygiene. Murphy and Stevenson. Article " Food," 
by Sydney Martin, p. 465. 

3* See Vegetarian, April 30, 1898. 

35 See Vegetarian, May 19, 1898. 

36 See Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 
^'^ See Kaye's Free Trade in Land. 

38 Tour in Sv:itzerland. 

39 Etudes sur I'Economie Politique. 
^0 Genuilde der Schireiz. Thurgau. 
<i See Vegetarian, May 28, 1898. 



NOTES 627 

*- Siviss Life in Town and Countnj. By Alfred T. Story. 1902. 
(Newnes & Co.) 

•"^ A Treatise on Hijijiene. Murpli}' and Stevenson. Article, " Food," 
by S. Martin. 

** Vegefarische JFarte. Herr Bauernfeind. 

« See Daihj Mail, Oct. 14, 1903. 

■"' Reports, 1870 ; and Farther Reports, 1871 ; from H.M. Diplomatic 
and Consular Agents abroad. 

*^ Vegetarian, July 30 and Aug. 6, 1898. 

*^ Vegetarian, Aug. 20, 1898. 

*^ From a Polish author. See Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 

5" Vegetarian, June 25, 1898. 

^1 Vegetarian, May 21, 1898. 

*2 C. F. Keary, Nonvay and the Norwegians. 

53 Sweden and Nonoaxj. The Rev. F. H. Woods. (Sampson Low.) 

°* Land of the Midnight Swn, vol. i. chap. ii. 

55 Ibid. vol. i. chap. ix. p. 119, etc. 

^'^ Ibid. vol. ii. p. 216, and further. 

5'' Excursions in the Interior of Russia. 

5** Vegetarian, June 11 and 18, 1898. 

59 See "Account by Judge Woodruff." 

^'^ In the Land of the Serb. Miss Durham. (Arnold.) 

•5* Denmark. E. C. Otte. (Sampson Low.) 

•52 Vegetarian. Sept. 3, 1898. 

"3 Curiosities of Food. Peter L. Simmonds. 1857. 

^* Across Greenland. F. Nansen. 1895. (Longmans.) 

''5 Eskimo Life. F. Nansen. 

*''' See William Wells' Middle Kingdom for further accounts. 

*''' Yangtsze Valleg and Beyond. By Mrs. Bishop, formerly Miss Bird. 

^^ "Chinese Hygiene." Arthur Stanley. Journal of the Sanitary 
Institiite of Great Britain. Oct. 1903. 

^9 Manchu and Muscovite. Weale. 1904. 

^" Revue de Paris. May 1904. 

" Through Hidden Shansi. F. NichoUs. 1902. 

'"■^ The Cliinese and the Condition of Victoria, Hong-Kong. By Surgeon- 
General Evatt, late Principal Medical Officer to H.M. Troops, Hong-Kong 
and China. Vaily News, March 25, 1904. 

''3 Things Chinese. Dyer Bell. (Murray.) 

'^^ Japan and China. 10 vols. 1904. Captain Brinkley. See vol. x. 
p. 9. 

''5 Manchuria. Alexander Hosie. 1901. (Methuen.) 

^^ Korea. Angus Hamilton. (Heinemann.) 

''' Korea. A. H. Savage Laudor. 1895. (Heinemann.) 

"**" First Impressions of Korea." F. A. Mackenzie. Daily Mail, 
March 2, 1904. 



628 STRENGTH AND DIET 

'^ "Korea." By George Lynch, Daily Chronicle, 1904. 

80 Vegetarian, July 13, 1898. 

«i Tlie Soul of a People. Fielding. (Hall.) Pp. 134, 136, 179, 125, etc. 

82 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1904. 

83 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1904. Article by Mrs. Earle. 

8* The Gist of Japan. R. Peery. (Oliphant Anderson & Terrier.) 

85 " Letter from Japan." By A. G. Hales. Daily News, May 31, 
1904. 

8^ Japanese Physical Training. H. Irving Hancock. 1904. 

8^^ Vegetarian, May 28, 1898. From The Kingdom of the Yellow Robe. 
Ernest Young. (Constable & Co.) 

88 Living Races of Mankind, p. 98. 

89 Vegetarian, Oct. 15, 1898. 
9" Living Races of Mankind. 

9^ See infra concerning this tribe, p. 256. 
^- Living Races of Mankind, p. 142. 
93 Ihid. p. 106. 
9* Ihid. p. 88, etc. 

95 Paris to New York hy Land. H. de Windt. 

96 In the Uttermost East. Charles Hawes. 1903. 
9'' Tibet and the Tibetans. 1904. (John Murray.) 
98 "On Tibet." Century Magazine, Jan. 1904. 

^^ These particulars were personally communicated to the author. 
100 pj-{cgg (did Wages in India. Director-General of Statistics, Calcutta. 
^"1 Sir John Sinclair. 
102 Herald of Health, March 1902. 

193 A Bird's-Eye View of India. 

194 See The Famine Campaign in South India, vol. ii. William Digby. 

195 See Madras Manual of Hygiene. 

196 See The People of India. Edited by Alfred Webb. 

19' See The Real Malay, by F. A. Swettenham, p. 117 ; also Camping 
and Tramping in Malaya, Rathbone ; also Perak and the Malays, Major 
M'Nair. 1878. (Tinsley.) 

198 A Visit to Java. W. Basil Worsfold. 

199 The Nearer East. D. G. Hogarth. (Heinemann.) 

110 Voyage of the Meander to the Indian Archipelago, vol. ii. p. 155. 
Capt. the Hon. Henry Keppel. 

111 Vegetarian Messenger, Sept. 1897. 

112 Living Races of Mankind, vol. i. p. 42. 

113 Australasia. Alfred R. Wallace. 

11* Australasia. Edited by Alfred R. Wallace. See Brenchley's 
Voyage of the Cura^oa, re Savage Island, 

115 See Living Races of Mankind. 

116 Vegetarian, Aug. 27, 1898. 

-1'' Encyclopcedia Britannica. Article " Africa," by Keith Johnston. 



* 



NOTES G29 

^1^ See Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 

"9 The New Em in South Africa. Violet R. Markhani. 1904. 

i2« Vegetarian, July 2, 1898. 

121 A Tramp Abroad, p. 509. 

1-- TJie Preposterous Yankee. M. V. Ponsonby. (Limpus, Baker 
& Co.) 

123 Vegetarian, Oct. 8, 1898. 

12'* The Great Deserts and Forests of America. Fountain. (Longmans.) 

125 Vegetarian. July 9, 1898. Article on "The Food of the Negroes," 
by D. E. Tobias. 

^^^ Memoir of Dr. Channing. 3 vols. 1848. 

127 Vegetarian. Dec. 10, 1898. 

128 "The Little-Known States of Mexico." W. H. Randall, A.M.LC.E. 
Chambers'' s Journal. 1902. 

123 Selections from Humboldt's Travels, by Taylor. 

130 Vegetarian, Nov. 5, 1898. 

131 Vegetarian Messenger, July 1902. 

132 Vegetarian, May 14, 1898. 

133 See Wallace's Australasia. 

13* The authority for this is Mr. Mauley Hopkins, formerly British 
Consul at Hawaii. 

135 Polynesian Researches. William Ellis. Vol. i. 1832. 

136 See Sir John Sinclair's Code of Health and Longevity. 

137 TJiree Months on a Coral Island. Mrs. Edgeworth David. 1899. 
(John Murray.) 

138 Vegetarian, Sept. 3, 1898. 

139 Log-Letters from the " Challenger." 

I**' Darwin described the extreme strength and endurance of the 
Chilian labourers, who lived on figs, beans, and roasted wheat, and of 
the miners, whose food was boiled beans and bread. (Naturalist's Voyage, 
p. 260, etc.; also Darwin's Letters.) 



CHAPTER VII 

Diet of Communities 

1 Vegetarian, May 28, 1898, 

2 Daily Mail, July 7, 1903. 

3 Health in Diet. Health Exhibition Literature. Society of Aria. 
* Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1902. 

5 "Canadian Papers." See Vegetarian Messenger, Sept. 1899. 
^ Manitoba Free Press. 

7 Vegetarian Messenger, April 1902. 

8 "The Feeding of the Soldier." Gentleman's Magazine, Dec. 1902. 



630 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



3 "Military Hygiene." Dr. Lane Notter in A Treatise on Hygiene. 
Murphy & Stevenson. 

1" Zusamriiensetz. der Menschlich. Niihrungs und Genussmiitel. 1889. 
See also Meinert's Armeen-und Volks-Ernuhrunxj. Berlin, 1880. 

^^ Science in the Kitchen. Kellogg. 

12 Morning Post, Aug. 15, 1904. 

13 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1904. 

!■* The War of the Civilisations. (Longmans.) 

1^ Jiu-jitsu, Japanese Physical Training. Hancock. See also Daily 
Neics, Jan. 22, 1904. 

i*"' The Health of Natiom. Edwin Chadwick (" Father of Sanitary 
Science "). 

1^ Sir J. Forbes' Memoranda made in Ireland, 1853. (Smith & Elder.) 

1^ Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 

13 Morning Leader, Dec. 19, 1903. 



CHAPTER VIII 

EXPEKIENCES AND OBSERVATIONS 

1 Antiquities of the Jeius, book x. chap. xvi. 

2 See Froude's Ccesar, chap. xiv. pp. 449, 547, etc. 
8 Natural History, book xviii. 

* Rollin's Ancient History ; also Athletce, Introduction. 

* Lectures, vol. ii. p. 269. 

^ Die unchristliche Gerneinden. (Leipzig.) 
' Letter to Firmus Castriccius, circa 308 a.d. 
' Vegetariana. 

^ M. Hartier, Humane Revieiu, Oct. 1896. 
1" See Dowden's Life of Shelley, etc. 

11 Speech at Bradford. 

12 Life and Carn^xdgn of Garihaldi in the tico Sicilies. 

13 Benjamin Franklin. (Cassell & Co.) See also the Poimlar Science 
Monthly, on " The Historical Aspect of Vegetarianism," March 1904. 

1^ The Buried Temple. Chapter on " The Kingdom of Matter." 

'* Vegetarian Messewjer, Oct. 1902, and Higher Economics of Diet. Rev. 
J. Todd Ferrier. 

1'' Elementary Physiology, vol. vi. p. 199. 

1" How to Live on Sixpence a Day. T. 
&Co.) 

1' Vegetariana. Charles W. Forward. 
1900.) 

1" Preston Clironicle. 

20 Temperance Record, Oct. 1, 1885. 



L. Nichols, M.D. (Nichols 
(Ideal Publishing Union. 



NOTES 631 

21 Page 307 et seq. 

22 Vegetarian Messenger, Nov. 1897. 

23 Health Almanack, 1881. (Franks & Co.) 
2* Acetaria. 

25 /o/m Hoicard. By Edgar Gibson. Pp. 29, 194, etc. (Methuen.) 

26 7h </ie South Seas. " The Mar([uesas Islands." 

-~ Die Ent incJcelung der Religiositiit und der Werk der Religion. (H. 
Wortmann, Zurich. 1898.) 

28 See Vegetarian Messenger, Aug. 1898. 

29 Richard Wagnev^s Prose Works, vol. vi. " Religion in Art." W. 
Ashton Ellis. 

2" Lives of Eminent Persons. "Library of Useful Knowledge," 1833. 
^1 Vegetarian Messeiiger, Oct. 1889. 

32 British Medical Journal, July 25, 1896. 

33 Vegetarian Messenger, Jul}' 1903. 
3^ P'ebruary 1905. 

35 Muscle, Brain, and Diet. Eustace Miles. 1903. (Sonnenschein.) 

36 Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1902. 

3^ Mr. Coad, Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1903. 

38 Smith's Fruits and Farinacea. 

3^ 77ie J.?-< of Enjoying Perfect Health. 

*" Vegetarian Society Annual Meeting, Oct. 17, 1903. Vegetarian 
Messenger, Dec. 1903. 

*i Vegetarian Messenger, Sept. 1903. 

*2 Vegetarian Messemjer, Oct. 1889. 

■*3 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1904. 

•*^ See Social Service in the Salvation Army. With an Introduction by 
General Booth. 1903. See also Daily Mirror, about Mar. 3, 1905. 

*^ Letters to the Tiiaes, 1878-9. 

""^ Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1903. 

■*'' Vegetarian Messenger, June 1904. 

*8 Vegetarian Messenger, Sept. 1903. 

*^ Watson's Lectures on I'rinciples and Practice of Physic. 5th edition, 
1871. VoL i. 

^" Vegetarian Messenger, July 1896. 

*' Vegetarian Messeiujer, Nov. 1898. 

" fferaZd of Health, April 1902. 

53 Vegetarian Messenger, June 1904. 

5* Vegetarian, Nov. 5, 1898. 

•« "The Value of Oatmeal." Daily Mail, Dec. 12, 1903. 

5« i>oi7i/ 3/ai;, Dec. 12, 1903. 

5^ Mr. J. Meldrum, of Glasgow, Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1903. 

58 TTie Buildimj of the Body. Albert Broadbent. 1903. 

59 Vegetarian Messenger, Sept. 1897. 
*■'•' Vegetarian Messenger, April 1904. 



632 STRENGTH AND DIET 

ci Westminster Gazette, Aug. 3, 1904. 

^- Nineteenth Century, Nov. 1902. 

''''^ Vegetarian Messcmjer, July 1904. 

•■'* See also Good Health, Nov. 1902. 

" Eating for Strength. M. L, Holbrook, M.D. 

^•^ " The Carlsbad Cure at Home." Henry Cunynghame, C.B. 
Nineteenth Century and After, Dec. 1903. 

" Food for the Tropics. T. M. M'Knight. (Thacker & Co.) 

C8 Daily Express, Jan. , 1904, and Aug. 3, 1904. 

C9 World's Work, March 1904. " Perfect Feeding of the Human 
Body." 

''" Avenues to Health. 

'^ Vegetarian Messenger; Aug. 1898. 

'■2 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1903. "The Need for the Study of 
Dietetics." Florence Sexton. 

" Daily Mail, April 8, 1902. " The Science of Food." By Walter 
Kingsley. 

CHAPTER IX 

Medical Testimony 

1 Hygiene, pp. 171, 603, etc. 

2 The Book of Health, edited by Malcolm Morris. 

3 Trans. Sanit. Inst, of Great Britain, 1879. F. de Chaumont, M.D,, 
F.R.S., on " Health and Good Food." 

* Lecture at the London Institution. Jan. 14, 1904. 
^ Encydopcedia Britannica, 9th edition. " Dietetics." By Dr. T. K. 
Chambers. 

c Practical Dietetics. (Revised 1902.) 

7 Diet. 

^ See chap. x. infra. 

^ See Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1896. 

10 Popular Science Monthly, Feb. 1904. " The Conservation of Energy 
in those of Advancing Years." 

11 Tlie Nature of Man. 1903. 

12 A Plea for a Simpler Life. 

13 Daily News, Sept. 14, 1904. 

i* Vol. i. p. 27 ; vol. ii. pp. 195, 327, etc. 

1^ See The Book of Health. Edited by Dr. Malcolm Morris. 

I*' Westminster Gazette. 

I'' " Brain Health." Health Lectures. Edinburgli Health Society. 
1880-81. 

18 " Growth and Development of a Child in Mind and Body." Health 
Lectures for the Peopjle. Edinburgh Health Society. 1880-81. 



NOTES 633 

'^ Edinhuryh Health Lectures. 

2" Vegetarian Messenger, Aug. 1903. 

21 The Herald of the Golden Age, Oct. 1902. 

-2 " Food versus Physic." See Vegetarian Messenger, June 1904. 

23 The Herald of the Golden Age. July 1902. Letter to the Editors 
of The Lancet. July 7, 1902. Robt. H. Perks, M.D. Brux., F.R.C.S. Eng. 
" Is Man Carnivoro;;s 1 " 

-■* Eating for Strength. 

^5 Diseases of the Stomach. 1901. 

26 How to Prolong Life, by Dr. Evans ; and Densniore's Natural Food 
of Man. 

^'^ Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1901. 

28 A Treatise on Diet. 

29 "Natural Hj^giene." See Vegetarian, Nov. 5, 1898. 

30 Lyon Medical, Aug. 18, 1901.^ 

31 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1904. 

32 In a book published at Montpelier in 1838. 

33 The Prolongation of Life. (Chatto & Windus.) 1900. 
3* Pp. 465, 467, 489. 

3' Medical Times and Gazette, vol. i. 

36 Treatise on Food. F. W. Pavy, M.D., F.R.S. 

3'' TTie Dietary in the Treatment of Disease. 

3* Eating for Strength. W. M. Holbrook, Professor of Hygiene, New 
York Medical College. 

39 The Young Woman, Feb. 1904 ; and The Young Man, March 1904. 

'"' Farnham Herald. 

*i Daily Mail, Dec. 12, 1903. 

^2 Hovj to Live on Sixpence a Day. 

*3 Lancet, 1900, vol. i. p. 684. 

4^ See Dahl On Uric Acid. 

*5 Proc. of the R. Med. and Chir. Soc, 3rd series, vol. v. p. 46. 

^6 A Manual of Medical Trecdment, vol. i. p. 204. Burney Yeo, 
M.D., F.R.C.P. 

" Some Food Dangers. Address to the Sanitary Inspectors' Associa- 
tion, 1903. By Sir J. Crichton Browne, M.D., F.R.S. 

*8 Vegetarian, May 21, 1898. 

*^ Diet and Food considered in relation to Strength and Power of Endur- 
ance, Training, and Athletics. (J. & A. Churchill. 2s.) 

^0 See Science Siftings, Nov. 14, 1903, and later references in various 
papers during 1904. 

SI See Morning Leader, Sept. 16, 1904. 

*2 British Medical Journal, June 4, 1904. 

*3 Transactions of the Sanitary Institute of Gi'eat Britain. "Occupation 
and ^Mortality." 1893. 

^■* Miscellanea Medica, 



634 STRENGTH AND DIET 

*5 Vol. xi. See p, 184 of Taylor's Asijects of Social Evolution. 1904. 
^•^ Joxirnal of the Sanitnnj Institute of Great Britain. January 1903. 
*" See also Nature, Dec. 1, 1904. 
58 Indigestion. 1880. No. 4. 

*3 British Journal of Dental Science. " Note on the Cause of the 
Prevalence of Dental Caries." 

^'o Sanitary and other ^fattcrs. By George Keith, M.D. 
«i Nov. 19, 1898. 



CHAPTEE X 

Stimulakts and jSTarcotics 

^ The Practitioner. 1902. " Views on Alcohol as a Beverage and as a 
Medicine." 

2 See, for part of the article, The Rapid Revieiv, April 1904. 
^ The Book of Health. Edited by Malcolm Morris. 

* Life of Huxley. Letter of April 9, 1889. 

* April 9, 1904. 

^ Twcntij-one Years of Scientific Progress in the Temperance Reformation. 
^ The Action of Alcohol upon Health. 

8 See The Drink Problem. By H. B. A. (Richard James, London 
House Yard.) 

" Transadioiis of the Sanitary Institute of Great Britain. 1893. 
■" Occupation and Mortality." 

i" On the March periodical. July 1903. 
" See Daily News, October 1903. 
12 Tibet. By Sven Hedin. 1903. 

^3 Transactions of the Sanitary Institute of Great Britain. 1879. 
1* The Drink Peril in Scotland. Arthur Sherwell. 1903. (Oliphant 
Anderson & Terrier.) 

1^ Lancet, June 25, 1904. 

1" Contemporary Review, March 1904. " Alcoholic Beverages and 
Longevity." 

1^ See Hygiene. By Parkes and Kenwood. 

18 Daily Nexos, Jan. 15, 1904. From the Alliance News. 

1^ Westminster Gazette. About April 1904. 

20 Daily News, May 16, 1904. 

21 Daily Chronicle, March 23, 1904. 

2- Speaker, April 23, 1904. Review of The History of Liquor Licensing, 
by Beatrice and Sydney Webb. 

23 " The Drink Peril in Scotland." See Report of Royal Commission, 
■etc. 






NOTES 635 

2* Mortlack, xvii. 48. 
-^ Coldhigham, xii. 55. 
-" Pencaitland, xvii. 44. 

27 Major Craigie, President of the Royal Statistical Society. Address 
on Nov. 17, 1903. Proc. Roy. Stat. Soc, 31st Dec. 1903. 

28 See Transactions of the Royal Statistical Society. Published Nov. 
1904. 

-^ A Letter to a Friend concerning Tea. John Wesley, Newington, 
Dec. 10, 1748. (International Library of Famous Literature. Issued by 
the Standard. 1900.) 

^•^ Familiar Lectures on the Physiology of Food and Drink. 

^^ A Treatise on Food. 

32 The Book of Health. Edited by Malcolm Morris, M.D. " Stimu- 
lants and Narcotics." 

33 The Book of Health. " Food and its Use." 

^* Degeneration. Contemporary Science Series. 

3' Avemies to Health. Eustace Miles. 

3^ Digestion and Dietetics. 

37 Medical Dictionary. 

3* The Science of Human Life. 



CHAPTEE XI 

Diet in Relation to Disease 

^ See " A Comparative Study of Cancer Mortality." British Medical 
Journal, 1903. 

2 Over fourteen during the three previous years (mean). 

3 Empire Review, Nov. 1903. 

* Manchester Guardian, Sept. 21, 1903. 
^ Refer to British Medical Journal, July 26, 1902. 
« Ihid. Oct. 6, 1900. 
7 Good Health Magazine, Nov. 1902. 
s Feb. 21, 1903. 

9 " The Natural Diet of Man." J. J. Bell, L.R.C.P.I., L.R.C.S.I. 
Vegetarian Messenger, July 1904. 
1" See The Practitioner. 

11 Lancet, 1898, vol. ii. p. 487. See Lancet, June 25, 1904. 

12 " Cancer and Uric Acid." Medical Press and Circular. 

13 Articles by Mr. D'Arcy Power, British Medical Jourmd, 1893 and 
1895. 

" Vegetarian Messenger, Aug. 1904, quoting Lancet, March 10, 1900. 
15 Good Health, July 1903. 



636 STRENGTH AND DIET 

^'^ Transactions of the North of England Obstetrical and Gyniecologicai 
Society. 

^^ Refer to Journal of Obstetrics and Gijnxcology, Aug. 1903. 
'^^ Geographical and Historical Pathology, vol. iii. 1886. 
19 Dr. Gordon Stables, Farnham Herald, Feb. 4, 1905. 
2<* Vegetarian Messenger, Jan. 1905. 

21 Sydney Smith. By G. W. E. Russell. 1905. 

22 Blue Booh, Cd. 2337, 1904. 594 pp. 

23 Nineteenth Century, Aug. 1904. 

24 Trans. Sanit. Inst, of Great Britain. 1882-3. 

25 Nineteenth Century. 

2" See article by Mr. Corbet, Westniinster Review, February 1905. 

27 Lancet, 1904. 

28 Nineteenth Century, Jan. 1905. 

29 " Gout." Arthur C. Luff, M.D., B.Sc. The Practitioner, 1902. 

30 Westminster Gazette. About 1903 or early 1904. 

31 The First Crossing of Greenland. 1895. (Longmans.) 

32 Sweden : its Peo-ple and its Industry. Edited by Gustav Sundberg. 

33 Emjnre Beviexo. Feb. 1905. 



CHAPTER XII 

Athletics and Training 



1 



Herald of the Golden Age, July 1902. 

2 Vegetarian, July 16, 1898. 

3 Vegetarian Messenger, Jan. 1903. 

4 Ibid. Dec. 1902. 

5 See Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1904, and the daily papers for mid- 
September. 

^ Vegetarian Athleticism. H. Light. 

' Summer Handbook of the Vegetarian- Cycling Club. 1904. 

8 Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1904. 

9 i7*M?. Dec. 1896. 

10 Westminster Gazette, April 8, 1904. 

11 Vegetarian Messenger, Oct. 1900. 

12 Vegetarian Athleticism. H. Light. 

13 Echo, November 1, 1902. 

1* Vegetarian Messenger, Jan. 1903. 

15 Strength. By C. A. Sampson. 

ic Daily Mail, Jan. 1904. 

1'^ Morning Leader, Jan. 1904. 

i« TJie Training of the Body. 1901. 



NOTES G37 

CHAPTER Xlir 

Prevalence of Adulteration 



I Daihj Mail, April 8, 1904. 

- Daily Chronicle, August 17, 1904. 



CHAPTEE XIV 

Supplementary 

* China, Past and Present, 1903. Edward H. Parker, Professor of 
Chinese, Owen's College, Manchester. 

- More Queer Things about Jafan. 
3 Indian Life in Toivn and Country. 

* The Busso - Japanese War. Thomas Cowen. 1904, (Edward 
Arnold.) 

^ The Other Side of the Lantern. 

* " Letter to Mrs. Earle," Vegetarian Messenfjer, Dec. 1904. 
'^ Morning Leader, Dec. 1904. 

® Letters from High Latitudes. Lord DufFerin. 

9 Vol. ii. pp. 3, 21, and 73. English edition. 1827. 

10 Vol. i. pp. 23, 41, etc. 

11 Vegetarian Messenger, Dec. 1904. 

12 xxiv. Band, 3 Heft. 

13 Hoiv to Avoid Colds, March 1902. 

1^ Compiled under the supervision of the Director - General of 
Statistics. 

15 Feb. 4, 1905. 

16 Trans. Sanit. Inst, of Great Britain, 1904. 

1^ Longmans' Marjazine, Feb. 1902. G. Clarke Xuttall on the Banana. 

18 Daily Chronicle, March 1904. 

1^ Independent Revieio, Nov. 1903. 

'•^0 Tico Hafpy Years in Ceylon. C. F. Gordon Gumming. 

21 Francis of Assisi. Mrs. Oliphant. (Macmillan.) 

22 See the British Journal of Cltildren's Diseases, Nov. 1904. Also, 
Adolescence, by Stanley Hall (Appletons). 

CHAPTEE XV 

Conclusion 

1 Manius Curius, after his great triumphs, declared that the man 
must be looked upon as a dangerous citizen, for whom seven jugera of 
land are not enough, that being the amount allotted after the monarchy 
•came to an end. — Pliny's Natural History, book xviii. 



INDEX OF NAMES 



Abemethy, 311, 385, 391. 

Abu-1-Ala, 121. 

Adams, C, 476. 

Addison, 419. 

Airy, 563. 

Albu, 388. 

Alcock, 457. 

Alcott, 322, 454. 

Allbutt, C, 410, 528. 

AUchin, 416. 

Allen, G., 537. 

Ambrose, 119. 

Angelo, Michael, 320. 

Anson, 19. 

Antiphanes, Prelim. Mottoes, 120. 

Antony, 119. 

Aphratus, 119. 

Apollonius, 113. 

Arbuthnot, 452. 

Archer, 33. 

Argyll, 211. 

Armstrong, 594. 

Arnold, 351. 

Arthur, 443. 

Artorius, 121. 

Athenaeus, 118, 289. 

Atkinson, 97. 

Atvvater, 29, 94, 102, 410. 

Augustine, 120. 

Avebury (see Lubbock). 

Axon, 332, 589. 

Bacon, 304. 

Bailey, 327. 

Baker, 185. 

Baker, Sir G., 402. 

Baker, Sir S., 185, 593. 

Banks, 397, 471, 482, 526. 

Barclay, 541. 

Barker, 333. 

Barlow, 430. 

Bashford, 460, 596. 

Basil, 123. 



Bauernfeind, 168 (note 44). 

Beach, 408. 

Beard, 584. 

Beauclerk, 153, 155. 

Beaumont, 95. 

Beaumont, 451. 

Beaver, 541. 

Beddoe, 387, 598. 

Bell, 451. 

Bell, Dyer, 193. 

Bell, John, 472. 

Bell, J. J., 71. 

Bell, R., 31, 376, 596. 

Bell, Sir C, 61, 62. 

Benedict, 120. 

Bennett, 449. 

Berbey, 437. 

Berlyn, 411. 

Bernard, 115. 

Besant, 133 

Besant, Mrs., 226. 

Betham-Edwards, Miss, 580. 

Biblias, 123. 

Bishop, Mrs., 190, 235, 237, 458. 

Black, 473, 592. 

Black, G., 328, 329, 387, 473. 

Blackwood, 322. 

Blow, 288. 

Blyth, 551. 

Bock, 451. 

Boege, 536. 

BOhm, Max, 338. 

Bond, 594. 

Booth, C, 30, 442. 

Booth, General. 286, 313, 589. 

Booth, Mr. and Mrs. B., 313, 430. 

Borgia, 120. 

Borromeo, 120. 

Bosant[uet, Mrs., 30. 

Bouchard, 72. 

Bougainville, 239. 

Braithwaite, 470. 

Brassey, T., 152. 



C39 



640 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Bremner, 179. 

Brewer, 393. 

Bright, 419. 

Bright, John, 458. 

Brighting, 328. 

Brindlej', 131. 

Brittlebank, 26. 

Britton, 543. 

Broadbent, A., 336. 

Broadbent, Sir W., 26, 420. 

Broca, 73. 

Brodie, 419. 

Brooke, 176. 

Brotherton, 308, 431. 

Browne, 561. 

Browning, R., 52. 

Browu-Sequard, 102. 

Bruce, W., 373. 

Brunton, Lauder, 374, 423, 431, 448, 

549. 
Brjming, 541. 
Buckingham, 209. 
Buckley, 16. 

Buddha, 113, 197, 318, 605. 
Buonaparte, Pierre, 481. 
Buonapartes, 481. 
Burden, 298, 450, 453. 
Burdett, 406. 
Burckhardt, 216. 
Buren, van, 197. 
Burnley, 568. 
Burton, 315. 

Caird, Mrs. Mona, 313. 

CsBsar, 103, 283, 302. 

Camden, 130. 

Cammann, 321. 

Campbell, Colin, 209. 

Campbell, G., 242. 

Campbell, Harry, 36, 75, 564. 

Canada, High Commissioner of, 287. 

Cantley, 582. 

Carlyle, Thomas, 51. 

Carpenter, Alfred, 583. 

Carpenter, William, 95, 368, 419, 

433. 
Carter, A., 337. 
Carter, J. T., 412. 
Casey, 159. 
Celsus, 304. 
Chad\vick, E., 295. 
Chamberlain, Joseph, 39. 
Chambers (Encyl.), 162, 
Chambers, T. K., 62, 357. 
Champonnifere, 474, 521. 
Chandra, 85. 
Channing, 229, 230. 



Chaucer, 129. 

Chaumont, de, Prelim. Mottoes, 24, 

54, 355. 
Chauvel, 602. 
Cheatle, 417. 
Cheyne, 76, 80, 359, 405. 
Chiene, 356. 
Chih-tung, Chang, 458. 
Chittenden, 344, 410, 557-560. 
Christ, Jesus, 604, 605. 
Christison, Sir R., 211. 
Chrysostom, 115, 120, 123. 
Church, 24. 

Churchill, Winston, 21. 
Cicero, 114, 303. 
Clark, E., 79, 326. 
Clark, Rev. James, 286, 326. 
Clark, Sir Andrew, 428, 431, 592. 
Clark, Sir James, 419. 
Clement, Prelim. Mottoes, 114, 115, 

120, 123. 
Clemow, 467, 485. 
Climbo, 466. 
Close, Mrs , 562. 
Clouston, 370, 375, 435. 
Cobden, R., 308. 
Cochrane, 187. 
Cocking, 591. 
Coldingham, 445. 
Cole, John, 450. 
Coleridge, Lord Justice, 39. 
Coleridge, S. T., 349, 456. 
CoUingridge, 595. 
Collyer, R., 315. 
Columba. 120. 
Combe, 31, 322, 451, 453. 
Commissioners for Lunacy, 455. 
Compton, 572. 
Cook, Captain, 576. 
Cooke, 314. 
Cooke, Wake, 563. 
Cooper, 582. 
Copeland, 225. 
Copland, 419. 
Comaro, 76, 312, 316. 
Cornish, 210, 212. 
Cotton, 432. 
Cousins, 333. 
Cowan, 572. 
Cowper, 604. 
Cox, E., 337. 
Crab, Roger, 316. 
Craigie, 142, 411. 
Crato, 315. 
Crawford, 241. 
Crichton-Browne, Sir -J. B., 13 (note 2), 

18, 20, 29, 53. 



I 



INDEX 



641 



Crocker, 'J'io. 

Crockett, 372. 

Crosby, 333. 

Cunynf^hame. 340, 313 

Curzon, 206. 

Cuvier, 60. 

Cyrus, 114, 284, 302, 578. 

Dalgetty, 473. 
Daniel, 115. 302. 
D'Arnay, 117. 

Darwin^ Charles, 51, 69, 70, 110, 140. 
David, Mrs. E., 239 (note 137). 
David, St., 120. 
Davidson, 472, 524. 
Davies, Yorke, 290. 
Decius, 115. 
Deecke, 158. 
Dflapine, 400. 
Denman, Justice, 39. 
Densmore, 75. 
Descartes, 305. 
De Quincey, 51, 456. 
De Wet, 581. 
Dewey, E. H., 431, 564. 
De Windt, 206 (note 95). 
Dick, 408. 
Dickens, C, 607. 
Diogenes, 113, 303. 

Director-General, Army Medical Ser- 
vice, 46. 
Dixon, Hepworth, 185. 
Dubsehiitz, E. von, 305. 
Dolaniore. 46. 
Dolling, 84. 
Dominic, 120. 
Dorman, H., 386. 
Dornbusch, G., 309. 
Douglas, 138. 
Dowse, 39. 
Doyle, Conan, 590. 
Drzewiecki, 73. 
Dudgeon, 389. 
Dukes, 374. 
Dupin, 151. 

Durham, Miss, 185 (note 60). 
Dutt, 118 (note 12). 
Dyson-Deverell, 597. 

Earle, Mrs., 293, 329, 575, 602. 

Eccles, 43, 441, 561. 

Edison. T.. 372. 

Edmunds, J., 420. 

Eithholz, 42, 46. 

Elibank, 131. 375. 

Ellis, Havelock, 24, 35, 599. 

Ellis. W.. 237. 

41 



Elliston, Miss, 28, 601. 

Elphinstone, Mount Stuart, 210. 

Elsassen, 535. 

Empedocles, 113. 

Epicurus, 115. 

Erskine, 222, 242. 

Evans, 76, 381, 382. 

Evans, T. H., 430. 

Evatt, 192. 

Evelyn, John, 77, 123, 316. 

Fabricius, 115. 
Fairbairn, 184, 299. 
Farmer, 460, 596. 
Farr, 295, 514, 585. 
Farrar, 307. 
Fayrer, 354, 
Featherman, 244-274. 
Felix, 114. 
Fergu.son, 19. 
Ferguson, Adam, 334. 
Ferriur, 116. 
Fielde, Miss, 193. 
Fleetwood-Taylor, 388. 
Fletcher, 344, 564. 
Fleury, 579. 
Forbes, 148. 
Forbes, John, 296. 
Fortescue, 129. 
Foster, Michael, 64. 
Fountain, 228, 229. 
Fowler, 431. 
Francis, St., 120, 600. 
Frank, 342. 
Frankland, E., 98. 
Franklin, B., 52, 310. 
Froissart, 289. 
Fry, C. B., 543. 
Fuhrman, 234. 

Gairdner, 427. 

Galton, DouLjlas, 23, 51 9, 585 

Galton, F., 32. 

Garibaldi, 308. 

Gassendi, 62, 300. 

Gautier, 102. 

Gemmell, 483. 

Genevieve, 120. 

Gladstone, W. E., 40. 

Gleize, 318. 

Goklsmith, O., 78, 349. 

Govett, 341. 

Gorst, J., 20. 

Gotama, see Buddha. 

Gould, 421. 

Graham, 117, 453. 

Graham, H. G.. 131, 445. 



642 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Greeley, 308. 
Greenwood, 518. 
Greer, 386. 
Gregory, 119. 
Grenard, 207. 
Griltmett, 442. 
Grinithorpe, 323. 
Guckerston, 75. 
Gull, W., 431. 
Guy, 393, 419. 
Gwydyr, 323. 

Hackenschraidt, 543. 

Haddon. 377. 

Haggard, 35. 

Hahnemann, 453. 

Hais, 102, 324, 362-367, 397-400, 

402, 430, 471, 481, 518, 581. 
Hainault, Governor of, 443. 
Hales, 200. 
Haliburton, 91. 
Hall, Fielding, 196. 
Hall, M., 419. 
Hall, W., 372. 
Haller, 311. 
Hallett, 586. 
Hamilton, 225. 

Hamilton, Angus, 195 (note 76). 
Hamilton, D. J., 69. 
Hancock, 200, 203, 294 (note 15). 
Hannen, 307. 
Harcourt, 40. 
Harnack, 124. 
Harris, 23, 542. 
Harris, C. J., 387. 
Harrison, W., 228, 332. 
Hart, 26. 
Hartier, 306. 
Havelock, 436. 
Hawes, 207 (note 96). 
Hawkes, 45, 455, 563. 
Hawkesworth, 80. 
Hawkins, 39 
Hayward, 336. 
Heathfield, 327. 
Heber, 213. 
Heokmann, 198. 
Hedin, Sven, 433. 
Hegesippus, 124. 
Hemmeter, 96, 379. 
Henderson, Mary, 4. 
Hernandez, 382. 
Herodotus, 118. 
Hesiod, 121. 
Higginson, 132. 
Hilarion, 119. 
Hilliard, 27 



Hills, 334. 

Hime, 596. 

Hippocrates, 115, 123, 125. 

Hirsch, 484, 489, 491, 492, 496, 497. 

Hodgkinson, Mrs., Prelim. Mottoes, 

408. 
Hogarth, 216-219. 
Holbrook, 393. 
Holland, S., 51. 
Holland, H., 419. 
Holyoake, 589. 
Homer, 116. 
Hooper, 451, 453. 
Hope, 419. 
Hope (Liverpool), 18. 
Hopkins, 237 (note 134). 
Horsey, de, 241. 
Horsley, 39. 

Horsley, V., 441, 442, 581. 
Hort, Miss, 335. 
Hosie, 194 (note 75). 
Howard, Ebenezer, 566. 
Howard, John, 317. 393. 
Howarth, 400. 
Howland, 181. 
Huddleston, 39. 
Huggins, 323. 
Humboldt, 231, 323. 
Hunter, John, 62, 353. 
Hunting, 595. 
Huret, 542. 

Hutchinson, Jonathan, 386. 
Hutchison, R., 18, 44, 9-3, 137, 356, 

454, 602. 
Hutchison, W., 541. 
Huxley, Prelim, Mottoes, 51, 54, 425. 

Jablonski, 389. 

Jackson, 327, 430. 

Jaffa, 557. 

Jeed (" Tt^ed '" is the correct name), 553. 

Jerome, Prince, 481. 

Jerome, St., 123. 

Johnston, 469. 

.Johnson. .J., 323. 

Johnson, S., 130. 

Johnston, K., 224. 

Jones, 43, 560, 564-566. 

Jordan, 34. 

Josephus, 115, 124. 

Kadono, 574. 

Kant, 329. 

Kawagucki, 207. 

Kay, 419. 

Keith, 320. 370, 385, 414, 416, 482. 

KeUogg, 450, 483. 



INDEX 



643 



Kelly, 553. 

Kelynack, 22. 

Keppel, 220. 

Kerr, 30. 

Kidd, 522. 

Kingsley, 583, 589. 

Kirke, 63. 

Kitchener, 432. 

Klein, 25, 102. 

Knapp, 198. 

Konig, 291, 392. 

Korke, 323. 

Kropotkin, Prelim. Moctoes, 586. 

Kuttner, 388. 

Lahmann, .^85. 

Lambe, 306, 402. 

Lancereau, 424. 

Landers, 224. 

Landois, 72. 

Lankester, 109. 

Latham, 419. 

Laurie, 288. 

Lawrence, W., 65, 67, 122, 205, 239, 

360, 579. 
Lawson, 470. 
Lee. 419. 
Lefevre, 601. 
Legge, 22. 
Lehmann, 99. 
Lempriere, 219. 
Lessius, 315, 328. 
Libby, 562. 
Liebig, 431. 
Light, 539. 
Lignori, 120, 
Linnseup, 62, 70. 
Lintott, 519. 
Lister, 24, 28. 
Livesey, 312, 430. 
Lubbock, Prelim. Mottoes, 31. 
Luoian, 123, 522. 
Lucretius, 121. 
Luff, 522. 
Luther, 330. 
Lynch, 194, 196, 293. 
Lyon, 154. 

MacAlister, 116. 
Macaulay, 132. 
M'Culloch, 130. 
Macdonald, 471. 
M'Elvoy, 225. 
Macgregor, 314. 
Macgregor, .Sir W., 475. 
M'Gugan, 479. 
M'Kendrick. 99. 



Mackenzie, 196 (note 78). 

Mackenzie, Mrs., 43. 

Macknight, 343. 

Macnamara, C. E., 430. 

Macnaniara, J. T., 519. 

Maccabieus, 115. 

Madden, 473. 

Madrali, 543. 

Maeterlinck, Prelim. Mottoes, 310, 

330. 
Mainwaring, 241. 
Majendie, 173, 180. 
Makowski, 537. 
Malcolm, 148. 
Malins, 333. 
Mallett, 413. 
Mann, Captain, 140. 
Mann, Karl, 367, 536, 538. 
Mann, R. J., 447 
Manning, 308, 397, 589. 
Manu, 208. 
Marsden, 242. 
Marsden, Alexander. 594. 
Martin, M„ 424. 

Martin, S., 93, 99, 100, 292, 391. 
Martin, St., 120. 
Mason, 424, 427. 
Matthew, 114. 
Mayo, 419. 
Mayor, 334. 
Megasthenes, 118. 
Menedemus, 304. 

Metchnikoff, Prelim. Mottoes, 82, 369. 
Miles, 97, 322, 325, 431, 538, 540, 545, 

590. 
Miller, C, 540. 
Miller, C. K., 441. 
Miller, J., 541. 
Milton, 133, 348 
Mivart, 70. 
Moleschotfc, 92, 99. 
Moltke, 307, 322. 
]\Ionboddo, 78. 
]\Iontaigne, 305. 
Moore, 398, 460. 
Moore, Surgeon-General, 456. 
Morgan, 33. 
Morrison, 190. 
Mosset, 80. 
Mott, 441. 
Moule, 457. 
Munroe, 431. 
Murphy, 93. 
Murraj', Lord, 81. 
Murray, 460, 596. 
Musonius, 115, 123. 
Nan.sen, 187,213. 455, 522, 523. 



G44 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Napier, 430. 

Napoleon, 372, 481. 

Napoleon, Louis, 48 1. 

Na.sh, v.. 118, 213. 

Nethersole, 22. 

Newcombe, 470. 471. 

Newman, F. W.. 315. 

Newman, Dr., 401, 552, 553. 

Newman, E., 539. 

Newman, J. E., 539, 542. 

Newsholme, 406, 408, 431. 

Newton, Isaac, 305. 

Newton, J. F.. 306. 

Nichols, 395-397. 

Niven, 409, 519. 

Nogi, 575. 

Northbrook, 210. 

Notter. 290, 595. 

Nottingham Hospital Surgeon. 549. 

O'Connor, 334. 

Ogle, 406, 408. 

Oldfield, 376. 

Olley, 537, 539, 540, 541. 

Oliver, T., 442, 480. 

Olsen, 478. 

Omar, 118. 

O'Rell, 220. 

Ormsby, 518. 

Osborne, R. J., 386. 

Osborne, S. G., 143. 

Owen, R., 61. 

Owen, T., 332. 

Ovid, 304, 348. 

Pachonius, 119. 

Page, 452. 

Paget. 473. 

Pakenham, 567. 

Pare, 470 

Paris, 382-385. 

Parkes, E., 64, 73, 353, 364, 429, 454. 

Parker, 570. 

Parker, K., 543. 

Parr, 316. 

Parrott, 334. • 

Parsley, 540, 541. 

Partington, 331. 

Partridge, 419. 

Paten, 567. 

Paul, St., 123. 

Paulson, 430. 

Pausanias, 117. 

Pavy, 93, 98, 402, 422, 448. 

Pay en, 141. 

Pearson, 15 

Peery, 200. 



} Peellmaun. 438. 

Pellatier, 576. 

Pellegoix, 204, 

Pencaitland, 445. 

Pengelley, 84. 

Perks, 378. 474. 
I Perky, 346, 348. 
I Perry, Sir E.. 210. 

Perry, 530. 

Perreira, 419, 

Petrarch, 117. 

Pfleiderer, 539. 

Phaartes, 123. 

Philip, St.. 120, 

Phillip.s, R., 309. 

Pietz, 535. 

Pitman, 589. 

Plato, 113, 127, 303. 

Plautus, 113. 

Playfair, 76, 330, 360. 
i Plinv. 12.5. 149, 303. 

Plutarch, 113, 303. 

Pollen, 213. 

Polo, Marco, 205. 

Poore, 13 (note 1), 584. 

Pope, A., 81, 231. 

Porpliyrises, Prelim. Mottoes, 115, 303. 

Porjihyry, 113, 114, 121, 305. 

Powderley, 443. 

Power, D., 482 (note 13) 

Prescott, 452. 

Prichard, 68. 

Proclus, 113. 

Prout. 419. 

Purdon, 44, 386,393, 454. 

Pythagoras, 76, 113, 303, 345. 

Quain, 419. 

Rabagliati, 287, 483. 

Rae, 390. 

Randall, 231 (note 128). 

Ray, 62. 

Reclu.«, E., 83. 

Rees, 597, 598. 

Regis, 120. 

Reich, Eduard, of Ziirich, Prelim. 

Mottoes. 
Reich, Emil, Prelim. Mottoes. 
Reinhold, 386. 
Rhys-Davids, 113. 
Richardson, 225. 
Richardson, B., Prelim. Mottoes, 64, 

77, 426, 454. 
Ridge, 422. 
Ridge, J. J., 433. 
Ripon, Dean of, 424 



IXDEX 



645 



RitBon, 301. 

Roberts, F., 404. 

Roberts, W., 450. 

Robinson, 551. 

Rockicki, 330. 

Rollin, 114, 304, 578. 

Rose. 160. 

Rosebery, Prelim. Mottoes, 405. 

Ross, 187. 

Ross, Bishop of, 44, 560. 

Rousseau, 78. 

Rowntree, 29. 30, 422. 

Runiford, 167. 

Russell, T. W., 467. 

Rutgers, 100, 590. 

Salisbury, 76. 

Sampson, 543. 

Saritcheff, 187. 

Saunders, S., 336. 

Sawyer, 307. 

Scaliger, 316. 

Scammell, 96. 

Scheube, 474. 

Schwann, 102. 

Scott, 43. 

Scott, Mis.s, 540. 

Scott, Sir W., 334. 

Scott, T. W. R., 189. 

Seneca, 115, 117. 

Serapion, 119. 

Sexton, Miss, 345. 

Shad well, 518. 

Shaftesbury, 38. 

Shallcross, 554. 

Shee, 520. 

Shelley, P. B., 306, 307, 349-351, 601. 

Shepherd, 427. 

Shuttle worth, 21. 

Silver, 525. 

Simon. 338. 

Sinclair, 209 (note 101), 239 (note 136). 

Sinibaldi, 453. 

Sismondi, 162. 

Skinner, 600. 

Sloane, 139. 

Smith, Adam, 139, 148, 340. 

Smith, Edward, 24, 142. 

Smith, Eustace, 562. 

Smith, John, 64, 139, 215. 

Smith, Sheriff, 39. 

Smith, Sydney, 81, 318. 513. 

Smith, T. G., 199, 293. 

Smyth, Mrs. Watt, 405. 

Socrates, 53, 115, 126. 127. 

Solimus, 130. 

Solis. 381 



Sosnowska, 326. 
j South, 409. 

Spallanzani, 383. 
I Sparrmann, 405. 
I Spencer, 130. 
I Spencer, H., 52. 
i Spurseon, C. H., 313. 

Stabfes, 387, 394, 513. 

Stanley, A., 191. 

Stapleton, 344. 

Stepniak, 180. 

Stevens, 590. 

Stevenson, R. L., 222, 317. 

Stevenson, T., 93. 

Stewart, 93. 

Stoker, 480. 

Story, 164. 

Street, 85. 

Street, J. C, 326. 

Strettles, 327. 

Stubbs. 132. 

Swedenborg, 395. 

Sweetser, 451. 

Symonds, J. A., 164. 

Symonds, Miss, 538. 

Talbot, 449. 

Tatham, 79, 437, 441. 

Taylor, 13 (note 3), 17. 

Taylor, J. M., 368. 

Teed, 553 (" Jeed" is given incorrectly). 

Temple, Sir R., 210, 212. 

Temple, Sir W., 133, 327. 

Theophrastus, 305. 

Theresa, 121. 

Thompson, Colonel, 308. 

Thompson, Oilman, 70, 361. 

Thompson, Sir Henrj% Prelim. Mottoes, 

31, 77, 353, 371, 420. 
Thompson, Symes, 387. 
Thomson, A., 69. 
Thomson, J. B., 393. 
Thorpe, 555. 
Thurston, 74, 90. 
Tobias, 229. 
Toit, de, 569. 
Tracey, 79. 
Traill, 472. 
Travers, 419. 
Trevelyan. 140. 
Treves, 573. 
Triptolemus, 114. 
Trotter, 453. 
Tryon. 327. 

Tuke, Prelim. Mottoes. 
Turner. W., 528. 
Twain, 227. 



64G 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



TwiniiiiT, 176 
Twiss, 139. 
Tylor, E. B., 68. 

Ulric, 120. 

Vacher, 421. 
Van Cooth, 119. 
Variot, 25. 
Vasa, 284, 293. 
Vaughan, 443. 
Verneuil, 482. 
Vincent, 587-589. 
Vincent, F., 172. 
Vizetelly, 360. 
Voit, 64, 379, 557, 590. 
Volney, 219, 258. 
Voysey, 330. 
VuUiamin, 163. 

Wade, T., 189. 

Wagner, R., 318, 319, 330. 

Walker, 460. 

Walker, E. P., 539, 541. 

Wallace, A. R., 69, 107, 221, 241-244. 

Wallace, Joseph, 390. 

Wallace, Mackenzie, 179. 

Wallace, R., 31, 394. 

Ward, 332. 

Watson, 604. 

Weale, 191. 

Weilshauser, 338. 

Weir, 602. 



Wellington, 372. 
Wesley, 311, 447. 
Whittaker, 421, 436, 442. 
AVielobycki, 308. 
Wiggleswortli, 562. 
Wilks, 419. 
Williams, W. R., 371. 
Wilson, J., 338. 
Winslow, 419. 
Wolff, A., 460, 525, 526. 
Wolseley, 189. 
Wood, .J., 387. 
Woodhead, 387, 420, 
Woodrnff, 182. 
Woods, 173. 
Wordsworth, 312, 319. 
Wright, 443. 
Wyatt, 541. 

Xenophon, 115, 119, 578. 

Yates, Miss, 23. 
Yeo, 400. 
Young, A., 130. 
Young, Dr., 454. 
Young, E., 203. 
Young, S., 540. 
Young, S. G., 590. 
Yoxall, 16. 

Zannetti, Mi.ss. 22. 
Zeno, 113, 304. 



INDEX OF SUBJECTS 



Ability, distribution of, 35. 
Adulteration, Introduction, and chap. 

xiii. 
Aggregation and disease, 50. 
Air-space, 46. 

Albumen, animal and vegetable, 590. 
Alcohol and vegetarian diet, 591. 
Alcohobsm, -34, 37, 38 et seq., 187, 188, 

355, 362, 364, 370, 418 et seq., 592, 

606. 
Ale and gout, 321, 422 et seq. 
Anaemia, 367. 
Animals, activity in, 353. 
,, food of, 105 ct fteq. 
,, strength and longevity of, 
105-112. 
Athletic-s and diet, 534, etc. 
Authors, sufferings of, 51. 

Bananas, area for maintenance, 323, 

597. 
Bakehouses, dirty, 401. 
Beef-tea, 363, 374. 
Beer, 321, 440. 
Birth-rate, diminution of the, 13, 24, 

599. 
Brain, digestion and, 54, etc. 
Bread, 95. 

Bread and tea diet damaging, 411. 
Breast-milk, failing, 45. 
British Association Inquiry, 211. 
British race, future of the, 564, etc. 
Burmese kindness to animals, 84. 
Butchers, high death-rate of, 514. 

Cancer and diet, 14, 355, 361-395, 
397, etc., 400, 404, 406, 407, 408, 
410, 411, 421, 422, 423, 445, 448- 
455, 459, 593, 596, and chap. xi. 

Ceylon, increase of alcoholism in, 433. 

Children, unhealthy, 373, 375, 417. 

Christians, early, vegetarian, 305. 

Cigarette-smoking, 411. 



Cities as destroj'ers, 34. 

Coffee, efifects of, 19, 187, 188, 342,. 

361-36.3, 385, 399, 445, etc., 449,. 

450, and chap xi. (See Tea.) 
Colds, prevention of, 591, 619. 
Communities, diet of, 283. 
Constipation, 321, 338, 400. 
Consumption, 34. 
Cottages, lack of, 37. 
Crime, increase of, with alcoholism,. 

433, etc. 
Criminals, juvenile. 14, 16. 
Cruelty to cattle, 85. 
Crust of bread superior to crumb, 357. 
Cultivation, profitable, 586, etc. 

Decline of the fit, 35, 560, etc. 

Depopulation, 586, etc. 

Deterioration of races, 30, 33, 35, 36, 

41, 46, 560, etc. 
Dental degeneracy, 46. 
Disease, power of man against, 54, 42. 
,, from wrong diet, 46-54, 187, 
188, 459, etc., chaps, viii., ix., x., 
xi., etc. 
Drink, when to, 323. 
Drunkennes.s, 14, 39, 40, 43. 
Dietary, complete, 402, 403. 
Diet, proper human, 60 et seq. 
,, experiments on, 557, etc. 
,, 44, etc., 60 et seq. 
,, in various countries, Addenda,. 
567. 
Diet of ancient peoples, 113-125, 578. 
,, Middle Ages, 128, etc. 
„ Engli.sh, 128, 132, 134-137, 142, 
14-3, 148, 560, 562, 563, 56.5. 
„ Irish, 130, 140, 560, 561. 
,, Scotch, 131, 144-147, 569. 
,, French, 129, 149-152, 562,580. 
,, Italy, 153-159. 
,, Sicilj', 158. 
,, Spain, 159, 570. 



647 



648 



STRENGTH AND DIET 



Diet of Portugal, 160. 

,, Switzerland, 161. 

,, Germany, 166. 569. 

,, Austria, 168, 567. 

,, Hungary, 169. 

,, Carpathians, 170. 

,, Scandinavia, 171. 

,, Finns, 173, 179, 257. 

,, Sweden, 174, 523. 

,, Norwaj% 174, 176, 569. 

,, Belgium, 177, 567. 

,, Holland, 177. 

,, Russia, 178. 

„ Poland, 181. 

,, Greece, 182. 

,, Turkey, 183, 184, 214-219, 273. 

,, Montenegro, 184. 

,, Crete, 185. 

,, Cyprus, 185. 

,, Denmark, 185. 

„ Iceland, 185, 186. 

,, Greenland, 186, 187. 

,, PZskimo, 187, 188. 

,, Asia, 189, 251 et seq., 262 

et seq. 

„ China, 189-194, 570. 

,, Korea, 194. 

,, Burmah, 196, 571. 

„ Japan, 197-203, 293, 572-576. 

„ Siam, 203. 

,, Central Asia, 204. 

„ Siberia, 204. 

„ Tibet. 207, 573. 

,, India, 208-214, 572, 593. 

,, Malaya, 214, 243. 

,, .Tava, 214. 

,, Australasia, 219. 

,, Morocco, 219. 223, 224. 

,, Australia, 220, 243. 

„ New Zealand, 221, 243, f'77. 

,, Samoa, 222, 272. 

,, Pacific Islands, etc., 222, 272, 

235 et seq., 576. 

,, Africa, 223, 245 et seq. 

,, Algeria, 223. 

,, Ni^rth America., 226, 266 et seq. 

,, Mexico, 230. 

,, Peru, 232. 

,, Central America, 232, 258 et seq. 

,, Venezuela, 234. 

,, Argentina, 234. 

,, Brazil, 234. 567. 

,, South America, 260 et seq. 

,, Sandwich Islands, 235. 

„ Tahiti, 237. 

,, islands, various, 235 et seq., 264 

et seq., 271 et seq. 



Diet of Ceylon. 530, 593. 

,, Lapps, 257. 

,, Magyars, 258. 

,, Indians, Red, 266 et seq., 570. 

,, Arctic regions, 576. 

,, communities, 283, etc., 581. 

,, soldiers, 289 ct seq. 

,, personal experience, etc., 301 
et seq. 

,, the strongest people, 278. 
Dyspepsia, causes of, 380, 387, 393, etc. 

East, power of nations of the, 8. 

Education and efficiencj'', 12. 

Empire and the race. Introduction, 

405, chap. XV. 
Endurance with frugality, frequent, 

600. 
Epidemics from foul flesh, 400. 
Epilepsy from alcohol. 424. 
Eton, carnivorism at, 329. 
Experiments, artificial and natural, 55, 

58. 
Excess, 371, etc. 

Fat, importance of, 356. 

Fit, decline of the, 35. 

Flesh, diet, toxic efifect of, 72, 136, etc. 

,, diseased, dangerous, 595, 596. 

,, foul, 583, 594. 
Flatulence, 359. 
Food, good, the foundation of training, 

21. 
Food and degeneracy, 46, 47, 53, etc. 

„ excess of, 371, etc. 

„ importance of proper, Prelim. 
^Mottoes, 53, etc. 

,. values, 90-97, etc. 
Fruit-eating, dangers of excessive, 338. 

Gout, 101, 321, 343, 345, 359, 368, 387- 

389, 422, etc. 
Grain, beauty of wheat, 347. 

Happiness in temperance, 428, etc. 

., destruction of, by wrong 
diet, 47, 48. 
Hospital patients, numbers of, 51. 
Humanity towards animals, 601. 

Ill-health, causes of, 29, 30, 325, etc. 

Improper food, 44. 

Infant life and national prosperity, 22. 

mortality, 12, 18, 19 et seq. 
Indigestion, 321, 359, 387, etc. 
Insanity, 14, 38, 42, 427, etc., 456, 
593. 



INDEX 



649 



Intervals between meals, 384, etc. 

Japanese intelligence, 54. 
Jewish and Gentile children, 30. 

Kidney disease, 321, 370. 

Lentils, value of, 590. 
London, Central, fatal to the race, 36. 
,, children deteriorating, 30, etc. 

ill-health of, 406, 584. 
,, non-prodnetive of ability, 35. 
Longevity, 72, 123, 132, 192, 285-288, 
29.5, 301, 304. 
,, in animals. 109, 110. 

Luxury, 53, 486. 

Man not naturally flesh-eating, 60-89. 
Marcjuesas, physical qualities of the 

people of, 339. 
Mastication, importance of, 344, 410, 

564. 
Maternal nursing decreasing, 17, 18, 45. 
Maternity in .Japan, 16. 
Meat extracts, 321. 

„ supply, 141, 486, 583, etc. 
Mercilessness of man imploring mercy, 

351. 
Milk supply, 12, 13, 18, 19 et seq., 582, 

etc. 
Milk, dirty, 45. 

,, importance of, 19, 3.57. 

„ unnecessary for adults, 385, 575. 
Millet, 343, etc. 

Misery from alcohol, chap, x., etc. 
Monkeys, illness of flesh-fed, 67, 329. 
Mortality of occupations, 407, 437, 514. 

Nervous diseases,- 445 et seq. 
Nervousness in children, 321. 
Neurasthenia, 449, etc., 374, 409. 

Oatmeal, 335, etc. 

Oil, importance of, 592. 

Old age and temperate living, 323. 

Opium, 456 et seq. 

Overcrowding, 37. 

Poets on flesh-eating, etc., 348, etc. 
Poisons of flesh and other nitrogenous 

food, 72, 362, 367, 370, 399, etc. 
Porridge, 375, 377, 385, etc. 
Power of man for regeneration, 608. 
Pulses, 363. 

Quantity required for health and 
-strength, 344. 



Recovery from wounds, power of, 82. 
I Recuperative power with improved 

conditions, 42, 432, 608. 
Rest before and after meals, 359. 
Rheumatism, 332, 345, 368, 387, 389, 

393, 394. 
Rice, value of whole, 412. 
Rickets, 357. 

Salt, excess of, 389. 

Salvation Army, 286, 331. 

Schools, hygiene in, 599. 

Science, necessity of, in education, 59. 

Self-preservation, instinct of, wanting, 
369. 

Sour milk beneficial, 369. 

Steaming vegetables important, 336, 
356, 386. 

Strength, human, little knowledge con- 
cerning, 55. 

Strength in races and classes, 278. 

,, of body and mind with 
frugality, 324, 344, 363, 
369, 371, 375, 378, etc. 

Stimulants, destructive, 367, 386, 418 
et seq. 

Sugar poisonous to the gouty, 336, 346. 

Swiftness and endurance of wild 
herbivora, 353. 

Tea-drinking, excessive, 19, 44, 45, 
131, 136, 137, 187, 325, 329, 336, 
342 ; 355-455 frequent, and chap. xi. 
frequent ; 598. 

Teeth, 337, 347, 411-413. 
,, not carnivorous in man, 65. 

Tinned food, 45. 

Tobacco, 323, 385, 458. 

Townsfolk, deterioration of, 33. 

Transport, cost of, in England, 597. 

Tropics, food in the, 354. 

Underfeeding, 46, 47, 357, etc. 
Uric acid, 72, 321, 363-368, 399. 
Uric-acid free foods, 364, 378. 

Vegetable food, sufficiency of, Intro- 
duction, 360, etc. 

Vitality of the temperate, greater, 43, 
etc., 589. 

Women, drunkenness of, 43. 

„ tea-drinking, 45. 
Wheat area and maintenance, 323. 
Whole meal, 356, etc. 
Work-capacity increased, 333, etc. 



Printed by 

Morrison and Gibb Limited, 

Edinmirgh. 




92 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



JBioMed 



