Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/archivesofpublic01victuoft 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MANCHESTER. 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 
No. I. 



Archives 

of the 

Public Health Laboratory 



Sherratt & Hughes 

Publishers to the Victoria University of Manchester 

Manchester : 27 St. Ann Street 

London : 60 Chandos Street W.C. 



V 



ARCHIVES 



OF THE 



Public Health Laboratory 



ir\<^ 



Of the'"University of Manchester 



EDITED BY 



A. SHERIDAN DELEPINE, M.Sc, M.B, Ch.M., 

Director of the Laboratory^ and Procter Professor of Comparative Pathology and 

Bacteriology. 



Vol. I. 




MANCHESTER 
AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS 

1906 



UNIVERSITY OF MANCHESTER PUBLICATIONS 
No. XII. 



INTEODUCTION. 

During the last fourteen years many researches bearing upon 
the Etiology of Disease, Preventive Medicine and Public Health 
have been conducted in the Laboratory either by members of the 
staff or by research fellows and students. Much information 
bearing upon questions of general or local interest has gradually 
accumulated in the Laboratory books. The results of investigations 
carried out for public authorities have been communicated in the 
shape of private letters or reports summing up the main conclusions 
arrived at, but seldom containing a full account of the scientific 
work upon which these conclusions were based; a few of these 
reports have been made public. Some papers have been pub- 
lished in various periodicals and several researches have been 
embodied in dissertations. It has been found impossible up to this 
day to publish in a connected form an account of the scientific work 
done in the Laboratory. It seems, however, desirable that some 
record of this work be published from year to year, partly for 
the purpose of giving to the public authorities associated with 
the Laboratory information which cannot be supplied to them in 
abridged reports suitable for administrative purposes, partly for the 
purpose of allowing successive Laboratory workers to take full 
advantage of the labours of their predecessors, and partly also with 
the object of exchanging ideas with other investigators engaged 
elsewhere in work similar to our own. 

As a teaching department of the University the Public Health 
Laboratory is concerned in the exposition of knowledge by means 
of lectures and demonstrations. Some of the lectures given at the 
Laboratory have been of special interest. With the object of 
bringing the student of Public Health in direct contact with 
scientific men whose personal experience and reputation allowed 
them to speak authoritively upon certain branches of Public Health, 
we have invited well-known hygienists to deliver, from time to 



ii INTRODUCTION 

time, lectures upon subjects wliicli they have made their own. The 
first volume of the Laboratoiy Archives is devoted to the 
publication of lectures delivered during the year 1904, and of 
a few reports which formed the basis of Demonstrations given by 
members of the Laboratory staff in connection with this course of 
lectures. On the occasion of the opening of the Laboratory, on 
January 27th, 1905, Professor Perroncito, of Turin, contributed an 
address on Intestinal Parasites, which is also included in this 
volume. These lectures, it is hoped, will form a suitable intro- 
duction to the Archives, for they deal with some of the most 
important branches of the work conducted in the Laboratory. 

Original communications bearing upon diseases which are 
prevalent in the districts surrounding Manchester, or dealing with 
food and water supplies, air, disposal of refuse, sterilization and 
disinfection, etc., will be published in subsequent volumes. These 
communications will be based upon current work and investigations 
which have been carried out in the laboratory during the last 14 
years for several County and Municipal Authorities. 

The Editor will endeavour to publish the Archives in such a 
form as to facilitate reference to various questions which have 
proved of special importance or interest in the North-western 
Districts of England. The editorial work in connection with the 
first volume has consisted mainly in the selection of subjects, the 
arrangement of the text, the translation of Professor Perroncito's 
lecture, and the preparation of the index. No alteration has 
been made in the text without the sanction of the authors, who have 
been given the opportunity of revising finally their respective 
communications. 

Sheridan Delepine. 



Lectures and Other Communications Contained in "Volume I. 

1. " Poisoning by Phosphorus, by Sulphuretted Hydrogen and 

by Carbon Monoxide." By Thomas Oliver - - - 1 

2. " Spread of Typhoid Fever, Dysentery and Allied Diseases 

among large communities, with special reference to 
Military Life in Tropical and Sub-tropical Countries." 
By J. Lane Notter 23 

3. " Feeding in Relation to the Health of the Young." By 

James Niven _--____- 39 

4. " The Pole of ' Missed Cases ' in the spread of Infectious 

Diseases." By Arthur Newsholme - - - - 75 

5. " The Application of Chemical Analysis to the Study of 

Biological Processes of Sewage Purification." By 
Gilbert J. Fowler ------- 97 

6. " Vaccination : its Pathology and Practice." By S. Monckton 

Copeman --------- 119 

7. " On the Construction of Life-Tables, and on their Applica- 

tion to a Comparison of the Mortality from Plithisis in 
England and Wales during the decennia 1881-90 and 
1891-1900." By T. E. Hayward - - - - 141 

8. " Water Filtration in connection with Public Supplies." 

By J. C. Thresh - -^ 191 

9. "Atmospheric Carbonic Acid, its Estimation and Variation." 

By John Robertson ------- 219 

10. " Defective Sanitary Appliances." By Francis Vacher - 231 

11. " Report upon an Alleged Effluvium Nuisance attributed to 

the Use of Yeast in a Tanneiy and upon an Outbreak 

of Diphtheria." By Sheridan Delepine - - - 249 



IV CONTENTS 

12. "The Characters of the Yeasts occurring in Tannery 

Materials, and in Tannery Liquors and Effluents." 
By J. R. Carver 277 

13. " Investigation of an Epidemic of Fish Poisoning at Drink- 

water Park." By E. J. Sidebotham and A. Sellers - 289 

14. " On two Aldehyde Reactions." By W. B. Ramsden - - 297 

15. " The Brain and Spinal Cord in Chronic Arsenical Poison- 

ing." By Reginald Lawrence 301 

16. " The Nerve Cells of the Central Nervous System in Malig- 

nant Disease." By Reginald Lawrence _ - - 339 

17. " Some Points concerning Human Intestinal Parasites." 

By Edoardo Perroncito ------ 355 

Appendix. Report of the Advisory Committee, etc. - - 375 
Index - 443 



Industrial Diseases due to certain 

Poisonous Fumes or Gases 

Phosphorus, Sulphuretted Hydrogen, 

Carbon Monoxide 



BY 

THOMAS OLIVER. M.A., M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.P. 

Physician Royal Infirmary y Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 
Professor of Physiology, University of Durham. 



Industrial Disease Due to Certain Poisonous 
Fumes or Gases. 

Introduction. 

Noxious gases or fumes are generated in the course of various industrial or 
other operations, and persons engaged in those operations are liable to certain 
forms of acute or chronic poisoning, to prevent which the State has sometimes 
to interfere. It is impossible in one hour to deal with the whole subject of 
industrial diseases due to gases or fumes. In this lecture three among the most 
important forms of intoxication are dealt with, namely poisoning by 
phosphorus, by sulphuretted hydrogen and by carbon monoxide. 

I.— POISONING BY PHOSPHORUS. 

Lorinser's (1845) and Samuel Wilks' Observation. 

The discovery of the lucifer match marks an important epoch in civilization. 
It is difficult to say exactly where lucifer matches were first made, whether in 
Stockton in this country or on the Continent. They were made in Vienna in 
1834, and we know that in Austria their manufacture had not proceeded very 
far when workers in the Industry began to suifer in health. In 1845, i.e., eleven 
years after the commencement of the trade in that country, Lorinser, of Vienna, 
published a paper on phosphorus necrosis in match workers. Between 1839 and 
1845, nine cases of necrosis had come under his observation. About this period 
Dr. (now Sir) Samuel Wilks had, in our own country, reported upon disease of 
the jaw-bone in a lucifer match maker. 

Phosphorus is allotropic and exists in two forms (1) white or yellow, (2) red 
phosphorus. It is the white phosphorus used for heading ordinary strike-any- 
where matches that is dangerous. From red phosphorus are made safety 
matches or those which strike only on the box. White or yellow phosphorus 
has been known for more than two centuries. To Brandt, of Hamburg, belongs 
the honour of its discovery in 1669. Phosphorus is made from bone ash by 
acting upon it with sulphuric acid, filtering and evaporating the product, 
heating this with charcoal and subsequently distilling it. Commercial 
phosphorus occurs in the form of white sticks 8 or 10 inches long, whicli become 
yellow on exposure to the air. During the absorption of oxygen from the 
atmosphere phosphorus glows or exhibits what is known as phosphorescence. 

Toxic Properties of Oxides of Phosphorus. 

In the act of becoming oxidized, phosphorus and oxides of phosphorus are 
formed. The greenish-white light evolved during phosphorescence can be 
checked by such oils as eucalyptus and turpentine. Phosphorus is extremely 
inflammable, it ignites at a temperature of 34°C. and forms, with a plentiful 
supply of air phosphoric oxide P4O10 and, with a limited supply of air 
phosphorus oxide P4O6. On analysing the fume given off by phosphorus 
8/lOths are found to consist of oxides of phosphorus. Until recently the whole 
of the strike-anywhere matches in this and other countries were headed by a 



4 OLIVER 

paste containing wliite pliosphoriis, and as this substance is volatile at ordinary 
temperatures it is to this fact, and the readiness with which the phosphorus 
enters into combination with oxygen, that the ill-health of workers in match 
factories has been attributed. The lower oxides of phosphorus are apparently 
more noxious than the higher, but upon what the specific action of the former 
depends it is difficult to say. Phosphorous oxide undergoes oxidation and in 
contact with moisture becomes phosphorous acid which is both a strong 
reducing agent and an active solvent. The peculiar odour of phosphorus is 
caused by a mixture of ozone and phosphorous oxide. 

Phosphorus fumes are known to be harmful to animal tissues, including 
bone. Prof. Thorpe found, on exposing decayed teeth to the fumes of 
phosphorus for 12 hours that they lost 0"37 per cent, of their weight, also when 
carious teeth were crushed and exposed to a dilute solution of phosphoric acid 
(1 per cent.) that they lost 8'9 per cent, of their original weight. 

In the air of a dipping room of a match factory Thorpe* found 0'02 
milligramme of phosphorus per 100 litres of air, while the same quantity of air 
of the boxing room contained 0'12 milligramme of phosphorus. After working 
on an average four hours each, 22 employees in a match factory were caused to 
wash their hands in a particular basin of water. On analysing the water 
Thorpe found 37'3 milligrammes of phosphorus. The same observer showed 
that the composition of smoke produced in the burning of phosphorus matches 
depends to some extent on the conditions of combustion. In the case of a single 
match, for example, freely exposed to the air the smoke consists, or rather the 
phosphoric element consists, of phosphoric oxide P40ioj but in the " smothered " 
combustion of a lot of matches, such as frequently occurs in the boxing of 
matches, a considerable proportion of phosphorous oxide P4O6 is formed. 

In the Match Factories of Great Britain and Ireland, 

during 1898, 4,270 persons were employed. Of these 1,166 were males and 3,104 
were females. About 1,700 were working in phosphorus processes. The workers 
under 18 years of age were 466 males and 1,077 females. The match works 
were distributed as follows : — 

England and Wales 17 

Scotland 2 

Ireland 5 

Total 24 

The number of match works in January, 1901, were : — 

No. in which yellow phosphorus used 15 

„ „ „ „ discontinued 3 

„ not yet working 1 

„ closed temporarily 5 

Total 24 



•Reports to the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the "Use of Phosphorus in 
the Manufacture of Lucifer Matches," by Professors T. E. Thorpe, T. Oliver and Dr. Geo. 
Cunningham. Messrs. Eyre and Spottiswoode, 1899. 



PHOSPHORUS 5 

On 15tli December, 1903, Dr. Whitelegge informs me tliat the number of 
match factories is 15. In 1901 the numbers of male and females employed in 
12 factories were 868 and 2,604 respectively. Three firms (not large) had not 
sent in their returns. The declension in the number of match factories and 
of persons employed is explained by the absorption of some of the smaller 
factories, the greater use of machinery, and improvements in the methods of 
manufacture. 

Processes Dang^erous to Health. 

The manufacture of phosphorus at Oldbury, near Birmingham, is attended 
with little risk to health as it is carried on mechanically and in covered-m 
vessels. Necrosis, however, is not unknown there. Ordinary white phosphorus 
is now made electrolytically in Pittsburg, probably, too, in England, and in 
France, on a small scale. The dangerous processes in a lucifer match manu- 
factory, in which white phosphorus is used, are mixing, dipping, and boxing. 
The drying of matches is generally carried on in closed spaces from which the 
fumes are carried away outside the works altogether, so that this process in the 
manufacture is no longer dangerous to health. The paste for heading ordinary 
strike -anywhere matches is composed of white phosphorus, chlorate of potash, 
glue, ground glass, and colouring matter. In some factories the white 
phosphorus has been replaced by a, comparatively speaking, harmless substitute, 
viz., the sesquisulphide. In Britain frequently the paste does not contain more 
than 5 per cent, of white phosphorus, on the Continent it may contain treble 
that quantity or more. Formerly the phosphorus paste was mixed in an open 
mortar, now it is usually made in closed vessels that are well ventilated. The 
dipping of matches is a very simple operation. The " compo," as it is called, is 
spread upon an iron plate or table. Into this paste the ends of wooden splints 
projecting from a frame are dipped. Only male dippers are employed in this 
country. Owing to improved ventilation, and the use of fans, dippers can follow 
their employment for several years without experiencing any ill-effects. Years 
ago, before the introduction of adequate ventilation, a large number of dippers 
used to suffer from the effects of phosphorus poisoning owing to inhalation of the 
phosphorous oxide, formed during the slow oxidation of the paste on the dipping 
table. Similar oxidation occurs in the drying chambers to which the dipped 
matches are taken, but these chambers are well ventilated, and in Britain as a 
rule no person entera them. In the boxing-room women do the bulk of the 
work. Lifting up a handful of matches, they rapidly fill the boxes, and so 
dexterous do they become at this work that the number of matches in each 
box if counted would be found to be the same. Notwithstanding the aptitude 
of these women and the care they exercise, the matches they are handling 
often take fire. Although the flames are at once extinguished by wet cloths 
which are ready to hand, there is a considerable amount of smoke given off. 
We have already alluded to the chemical composition of this " smothered " 
smoke. The smoke irritates the throat, and makes the eyes smart. After a few 
hours' work in a boxing-room, the hands of the women are not only deeply 
stained by the dye from the match heads, they smell strongly of phosphorus, 
and in the dark are luminous. 



6 OLIVER 

Acute Phosphorus Poisoning' is practically unknown in lucifer 
match makers ; it is not an industrial disease. Phosphorus is an extremely fatal 
poison, whether it is swallowed or administered hypodermically. One-tenth of 
a grain, according to Zobel, of Jena, has caused death, while a fairly large 
piece of white phosphorus is stated to have passed down the length of the 
alimentary canal of a dog without causing symptoms. This, however, must be 
a most unusual event. Phosphorus produces its disastrous effects equally upon 
animals and men. When taken by the mouth the symptoms are those of 
irritant poisoning. The rapidity with which the symptoms develop depends 
largely upon the amount, and kind, of food present in the stomach. There is 
usually extreme pain at the epigaster, accompanied by vomiting, often coffee 
ground in character, and garlicky in odour. Three or four days afterwards 
jaundice develops in about 80 per cent, of the cases, and gradually deepens. 
There is considerable depression both mental and physical. The patient feels 
extremely wretched owing to pain in the abdomen and vomiting ; he may pass 
into a state of somnolence which gradually deepens into coma, in which he 
dies. Women, if pregnant, miscarry and frequently die after the event. The 
liver in the early stages of acute phosphorus poisoning is usually found 
enlarged; later on it is diminished in size, and is olive green in colour and on 
section is greasy. The kidneys are large, pale, and fatty. There are numerous 
ecchymoses all over the body, in the pleura, pericardium, heart and muscles. 
On microscopical examination the cells in the liver and kidneys are observed 
to have undergone extensive fatty degeneration, while the cardiac muscle is 
seen to have lost its transverse striation. 

This is acute phosphorus poisoning as it occurs in the accidental and suicidal 
forms of the malady. Persons breathing the vapour of phosphorus suffer in 
time from chronic phosphorus poisoning, but how the poison acts is not exactly 
known. In the ordinary metabolism of the body proteid is split up into a 
nitx-ogenous portion which is thrown off by the kidneys and a non-nitrogenous 
which is resolved into carbonic acid and water, and these are eliminated by the 
lungs and kidneys. "When a starving dog, living upon its own tissues, is 
poisoned with phosphorus, the proteid decomposition as indicated by the 
nitrogen in the urine is largely increased, while the amounts of carbonic acid 
given off and oxygen absorbed are largely decreased ; on post-mortem examina- 
tion the organs are found to contain excessive quantities of fat. We have here 
presumptive evidence that a part of the proteid molecule usually completely 
oxidized has not been burned but has been converted into fat."* In a word 
phosphorus interferes with the normal processes of oxidation that occur in 
living protoplasm. But phosphorus has, in addition, a special action upon the 
marrow of bone. Stockman and Charteris injected hypodermically into rabbits 
Im.gm. of phosphorus dissolved in oil. They repeated the operation on a few 
occasions. The bone marrow was found to have undergone certain changes 
commencing primarily in a hypersemia. The amount of change depended 
largely upon the length of time the phosphorus had been administered. There 
were usually distinct atrophy of the fat cells of the marrow and a great increase 
of the leucoblast marrow cells. These were followed by gelatinous degeneration 



'Text Book of Physiology," Howell, second edition. Vol. i., p. 513. 



PHOSPHORUS 7 

and a diminution of the giant cells and thickening of the connective tissue. 
The early changes, i.e., increase of leucoblasts, " indicate a reaction on the part 
of the marrow for the purpose of dealing with the poison. As the poisoning 
becomes more severe and obtains the upper hand, the marrow degenerates 
rapidly and its cellular structure disappears, just as happens in many other 
poisonings and cachectic conditions." Stockman and Charteris did not find 
any increase in the thickness of the bone.-f 

Industrial Phosphorus Poisonin^^. Phosphorus poisoning in match- 
makers differs considerably from acute phosphorus poisoning. It occurs under two 
forms — (1) in which the symptoms are more or less constitutional, and (2) local. 
To the first form French physicians have given the name of phosphorisine. 
Magitot depicted the malady as he observed it among the match maJters at 
Pantin-Aubervilliers, near Paris, and Arnaud as he saw it in Marseilles. As a 
consequence of lengthened exposure to phosphorus fumes these writers maintain 
that there is induced, especially in female workers, a constitutional state 
characterised by anaemia, a yellow tint of the skin, loss of appetite, albuminuria, 
dyspepsia and headache followed by progressive emaciation. Although Arnaud^ 
found albuminuria present in fully 70 per cent, of his cases of phosphorisme 
he did not find that the patients became ultimately the subjects of Bright's 
disease. Match makers have often an unpleasant garlicky odour about them 
which is mostly given off in the breath and not from the clothes they wear, 
for it is still present after the workers have had a bath and changed their 
raiment. One of the paths of elimination of phosphorus from the body is the 
lungs, and other paths equally important are the kidneys and skin. The odour 
of the urine in phosphorisme may at times be very unpleasant. The presence 
of albumin in the urine is explained by the fact of the kidneys being channels 
of elimination of phosphorus. Albuminuria can be produced experimentally 
in animals 48 hours after the introduction of phosphorus into the system. It 
has to be borne in mind that the particular channel by which the poison is 
introduced into the body is not without some influence in determining what 
organs shall suffer most. When phosphorus enters by the stomach the liver 
is the organ first and most profoundly affected ; when administered hypo- 
dermically the kidneys are the first to suffer, but since in match makers the 
poisonous fumes are absorbed by the lungs the phosphorus passes into the blood 
and is eliminated by the breath and kidneys. Falck has described a cerebro- 
spinal form of phosphorisme, but it cannot be said that there is any decided 
clinical type. The commonest nervous symptoms are disorders of sensation, 
e.g., cutaneous or muscular hypersesthesia, headache, pain in the spine, arms, 
and legs, accompanied by muscular weakness. Instead of hyperaesthesia there 
may be anaesthesia or loss of sensation in the lower extremities. 

Opinion is divided as to whether pregnant females who are the subjects of 
phosphorisme exhibit a greater tendency to miscarry than healthy women 
employed in other occupations. Arnaud did not find that the match msikers 
of Marseilles aborted in an unusually large proportion, a circumstance which 

+ "The Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology," December, 1903, p. 205. 
J " Etudes sur le Phosphore et le Phosphorisme Professionel." 



8 OLIVER 

is rather interesting seeing that phosphorus matches are in our own country 
often resorted to as an ecbolic. The children of healthy female match makei-s 
in Marseilles were found to be just as strong as those of women following 
other trades. I have not found during my visits to the match works in our own 
country or in France and Belgium this form of constitutional poisoning or 
phosphorisme to any extent. When ordinary precautions are adopted, and the 
women are not of the very poorest classes, female workers in match factories are 
not more anaemic than those engaged in other trades. 

Lucifer match making therefore does not appear to influence very adversely 
the general health where ventilation is good and personal cleanliness is 
observed. Men and women may work from 10 to 30 years without suffering 
either in their general health or from any local trouble, and yet, on the other 
hand, it must be admitted that in some of the workers there are induced 
physical changes in their body which create a predisposition to disease by 
diminishing the general and local resistance to infective organisms. Probably 
it requires a lengthened exposure to phosphorus fumes for this predisposition to 
be developed, but other agents may be co-operating, e.g., chloro-ansemia, bad 
food and alcohol, to bring about the altered state of body just referred to. 

Phosphorus Necrosis or Phossy Jaw. The one malady which is 

special to lucifer match makers, and which has gained for the trade 
a bad name is necrosis of the jawbone, called in this country " phossy 
jaw " and in France " mal chimique." The disease usually begins with 
pains in the face, attended by a localized swelling of the gum, and 
followed by an abscess which may burst of itself, or be opened by a surgeon. 
The escape of pus is not succeeded by resolution, for the suppuration continues 
and there remains a fistulous opening. A suspected tooth is removed but even 
this does not lead to a cure for other teeth probably fall out, the suppuration 
continues, and months afterwards a sequestrum of bone is removed. There is 
nothing about this form of necrosis that is special to phosphorus poisoning 
unless it be the extreme slowness and the indefinite limit to which the disease 
may extend. Wounds in the mouth of match makers who have been exposed to 
phosphorus fumes heal very slowly. The wound caused by the extraction of a 
tooth in a presumably healthy match maker, instead of closing over in a few 
days, remains open for weeks or months, even if he absents himself from the 
factory. On the other hand, should the individual in this condition continue 
to follow his occupation, he is running a tremendous risk of becoming the 
subject of phosphorus necrosis. It is this defect in the processes of repair that 
suggests the existence of some local influence left upon the tissues by phosphorus 
fumes. In many match makers the saliva is acid, a circumstance which would 
not only tend to decalcify the teeth and favour the development of caries, but 
might at the same time exaggerate the virulence of microbes in the mouth. 
The defective processes of repair in the mouth may be due to the absence of 
diapedesis of the white corpuscles of the blood,and a diminution of phagocytosis. 
Arnaud is of opinion that the slowness of the cicatrization of wounds in match 
makers is not confined to the mouth but is also exhibited by wounds on the 
extremities, e.g., those caused by burns. Although there is nothing in 
phosphorus necrosis of the jaw different from that which occurs in syphilis and 



PHOSPHORUS 9 

ill tubercle, there may yet be something in the anatomical condition of the jaw- 
bones of man which render these bones specially liable to this affection, 
compared with animals upon whom experiments have been made to produce 
maxillary necrosis. It is an extremely difficult thing to induce necrosis of the 
jaw bone in animals even after submitting them for weeks or months to the 
fume of white phosphorus, to the fume of dry matches, or to the smoke from 
burning matches. Not even after the extraction of a tooth or two in a rabbit 
or a dog, laceration of their gums and subsequent exposure of the thus bared 
alveolar cavity to phosphorus fumes, do we find death of the bone readily 
brought about in animals. There is something that is peculiar to the human 
subject as regards his liability to phosphorus necrosis compared with the lower 
animals, but what that something is it is difficult to say. I have never succeeded 
in causing it, neither has Stubenrauch of Munich, nor Stockman of Glasgow, 
and yet a very small wliift' of phosphorus fume in man may be followed by very 
painful if not serious symptoms. A patient of mine, a short while ago, lit his 
pipe and began to smoke. He had scarcely taken a draw or two when he 
complained of a most unpleasant taste and odour in his mouth. He continued 
smoking. Next day he had, what was most unusual to him, viz., violent 
toothache. On the day succeeding this his gums were suppurating, the teeth 
on the side he had held the pipe were tender and his jaw-bone was painful. 
The dentist he consulted could not explain the peculiar pathological state of the 
mouth. He was obliged, however, to remove five teeth, and although these 
were slightly carious they had never until the particular smoke of two days 
previously caused their owner the slightest trouble. An examination of the 
pipe was made, when it was found that a wax vesta, with its head toward the 
mouthpiece, had slipped into the rather wide canal of the pipe, and as there 
had been no trouble before, nor since the particular occasion referred to, and 
the peculiar state of the mouth was of such a character as to be outside of the 
ordinary routine of the dentist's experience, we cannot eliminate phosphorus 
fume from having played a special part in causing the pain in the teeth and 
the suppuration of the gums. 

What then is the Cause of Phosphorus Necrosis? Wegner 

found that if he bared the tibiae of dogs and exposed the animals to phosphorus 
fumes the periosteum and the bone became affected. This would suggest that there 
can be no necrosis without a channel of entrance for the phosphorus fumes, but as 
the malady has frequently developed in match maJvers after they have left oft* 
working in a factory, this circumstance would point to some additional 
coincidence, such as, for example, a general predisposition. There must be in 
operation (1) a causative agent, (2) a channel of entrance, and (3) a 
constitutional and local predisposition. There is a general consensus of opinion 
that more than one causative agent is at work. Although Stubenrauch placed 
white phosphorus into holes drilled through the teeth in the lower jaw of dogs 
and cemented the opening, he found that only the most limited necrosis 
occurred, and that it never extended as it does when necrosis is similarly 
induced by arsenic. It is more than likely therefore that the harmful agent is 
not so much phosphorus per se as its lower oxides. Add to the operation of 
phosphorus fumes, in the form of lower oxides, that of carious teeth providing 



10 OLIVER 

a channel by which these oxides may reach the alveolar cavity of the jaw, and 
we have, according to Roussel, who as far back as 1846 insisted upon dental 
caries as a primary necessity, an explanation of the necrosis and its occurrence 
in the jawbone. 

Over and above these, additional local influences are probably at work. 
There are always myriads of micro-organisms in the mouth, some of which may 
be rapidly transformed by alteration of their surroundings into microbes of 
a most virulent character. Infection may therefore play a part. Phosphorus 
fumes by diminishing local resistance may prepare the way for the operation of 
infective micro-organisms. That the fumes themselves can inflict considerable 
local damage is clearly demonstrated by the case of the tobacco smoker already 
alluded to. If we accept the microbic theory, then phosphorus necrosis would 
be the result of an infective osteitis. 

Professor Stockman, of Glasgow, found a few tubercle bacilli in the pus 
that escaped from a fistulous opening of the necrosed jawbone of a match maker. 
Stockman looks upon phosphorous necrosis as really a tubercular process. In 
the specially stained specimens of pus, similarly obtained from the necrosed 
jawbones of match makers, I have never succeeded in finding tubercle bacilli. 
"Without therefore denying the possibility of the malady being tubercular I am 
disposed, owing to the large number of pus and other organisms in the mouth 
to regaxd phosphorus necrosis as the result of a multiple infection, in which 
tubercle when present is probably secondary. 

It is more than likely that local causes are supplemented by a constitutional 
predisposition. In other words, the general health of the individual, as in 
ordinary infectious diseases, has something to do with local developments. 
Many match makers are exposed to phosphorus fumes for years, and yet it is 
only very few who suffer from necrosis of the jaw. In addition to penetrating 
a carious tooth, or acting upon an exposed alveolus and of thereby inducing 
local irritation, phosphorus fume is also capable of causing a mild form of 
constitutional poisoning, which if it does not always amount to phosphorisme 
IS still capable of directing a local infection, by diminishing tissue resistance. 
Considerable time may be required before phosphorus can produce this general 
predisposition. Possibly it is this alteration of the general constitution that 
explains the difficulty of inducing in animals anything like phosphorus necrosis 
as met with in man. In order to bring about conditions as nearly as possible 
snnilar to those which men and women are exposed to, Stubenrauch, in his 
efforts to produce necrosis experimentally in animals, placed dogs in match 
works for six months and allowed them to breathe the air of the drying rooms 
daily from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m. In one dog, a wound was made by a surgeon 
on the forehea^l which exposed the periosteum, a small portion of the gum of the 
lower jaw was removed from another, two teeth were extracted from a third dog, 
while m the case of a fourth dog the artery entering the foramen of the inferior 
maxilla was tied. Not one of the animals suffered except the dog whose artery 
was tied. This animal developed a suppurating osteitis. Stubenrauch therefore 
concludes that phosphorus fume 'per se cannot be the cause of necrosis, that the 
malaxly is probably the result of infective organisms acting upon bone whose blood 
supply has been cut off, e.g., by thrombosis, hence the greater frequency of 
phosphorus necrosis m anaemic women, and in those who have had hsemorrhage 



PHOSPHOEUS 11 

In Stubenraiicli's experiments the animals were not exactly under the same 
conditions as men and women in a match factoiy, where, in addition to inhaling 
phosphorus fume, many of them are handling all day long dry matches, or 
standing over a dipping table. 

That some constitutional change is induced as the result of the long- 
continued inhalation of phosphorus fumes is confirmed by the occurrence of 
spontaneous fracture of the long bones of match makers. When visiting the 
match works at Grammont, in Belgium, I had an interview with Dr. Brocoorens, 
medical officer to the works, who informed me that in 25 years he had treated 
30 cases of fracture of the leg occurring spontaneously in men who were dippers, 
and who had previously suffered from necrosis of the jaw. In England this 
accident is comparatively rare to what it has been in Belgium. Dr. Garman, 
of Bow, who is medical officer to Messrs. Bryant and May, told me that he knew 
of two cases, and Dr. Dearden has reported two cases of double fracture of the 
thigh in match makers. All the accidents occurred under the most trivial 
circumstances. It would seem therefore as if phosphorus fume was capable not 
only of causing necrosis but of creating a constitutional state or cachexia, the 
outcome of deranged metabolism, or of causing structural changes in internal 
organs whereby a degree of fragility of the long bones is induced which makes 
them break on very slight exertion. Dearden * found that the relative propor- 
tion of phosphoric acid to lime is greater in the bones of match makers than in 
those of healthy persons, and is of the opinion that a chemical change in the 
bone precedes the necrosis. Gautrelet, a French chemist, gives it as his 
opinion ba^ed upon analysis that phosphorus necrosis is due (1) to a general 
condition of poisoning consequent upon hyperacidity of the blood, and (2) to 
a local action consisting in degeneration of the bony tissues with multiplication 
of the marrow cells. 

Prevalence of Industrial Phosphorus Poisoning^. The total 

number of cases of phosphorus poisoning in Britain coming under the provision 
of the Factory Act, and of which there are definite records during the 20 years 
ending December, 1899, is 102, and of these 19 terminated fatally. Since then 
the following cases have been notified to the Chief Inspector of Factories : — 





Cases. 


Deaths 


1900 


4 ... 





1901 


4 ... . 





1902 


3 ... . 


1 


1903 


... . 





From 1880-1903 


113 ... . 


20 



Compensation to Lucifer Match Makers. In England lucifer 
match makers who have become ill through following their employ- 
ment may receive voluntary help from their employers. There is no 
compulsory compensation they can claim. The money cost to Britain through 
industrial phosphorus poisoning has practically speaking been nil, compared 

* " British Medical Journal," 1899. Vol. ii. 



12 



OLIVER 



with the demands made upon the Treasury in France. The manufacture of 
matches is in France a Government monopoly. The principal match works are 
in Pantin-Auhervilliers, just outside of Paris, and in Marseilles, but the 
industry is also carried on at Begles, Saintimes, Trelaye and Aix-en-Provence. 
In 1896 there were working at Pantin 712 persons — 78 men and 634 women — 
and at the time of my visit two years afterwards there were 400 women and 
200 men. When I visited the Prado factory, Marseilles, in 1898, there were 
working 540 people, 460 women and 80 men. A few years previously the State 
had not only taken over all the match works in France, but had undertaken 
to indemnify the workers suffering from industrial phosphorus poisoning. 
Either as a consequence of this benevolent act, or as a coincidence, the number 
of reported cases of industrial phosphorus poisoning rose so high that in 1896 
the French Government appointed a small Commission to enquire into the 
state of health of 226 workpeople who were said to be ill through having worked 
at Pantin. At the close of the year 1894 there were 32 cases of phosphorus 
poisoning. At the end of the following year the number had risen to 125, and 
to 226 at the close of 1896, or nearly one-third of the effective force of the 
factory. The French Government at this time was paying into a fund at the 
bank a sum of money to each match maker equal to 40 per cent, of his wages, 
quite apart from other gratuities that were allowed. To those in this country 
who are interested in compulsory compensation as applied to dangerous trades 
the following table shows how the disbursement of public monies was affected 
by the adoption of the measure in France. 

Year. 

1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 

It was scarcely to be expected that this increasing expenditure of public 
money could go on without attracting attention in Parliament. Not only did 
the extravagant payments lead to the appointment of a small Commission of 
Enquiry but it forced the hands of the Government to ascertain whether ordinary 
strike -anywhere matches could not be made from some substance other than the 
dangerous white phosphorus. In our own country, about the same period, there 
was considerable expression of public feeling against the manufacture of lucifer 
matches, owing to the sudden disclosure of a number of cases of phosphorus 
necrosis that had not been notified. It was this circumstance that brought 
Professor Thorpe and myself into official connection with the Home Office and 
supplied us with the opportunities of visiting match works both at home and 
abroad. In my Report to the Home Secretary there occur the words " There 
is no doubt that so long as ordinary white phosphorus is used in match works, 
even with all known precautions, absolute freedom from risk cannot be 
guaranteed to the workers. Total prohibition of the use of white phosphorus 



Total Amounts Paid tc 


► Wprkers in 


Match 


Facto] 


nes. 


. ... 672 francs 39 c. 


. ... 1,457 




12 „ 


. ... 3,740 




59 „ 


. ... 15,641 




64 „ 


. ... 29,944 




69 „ 


. ... 115,305 




26 „ 


. ... 384,283 




83 „ 



PHOSPHORUS 13 

is therefore the simplest and readiest way to obviate danger." At that time 
England was brought face to face with the question either of prohibiting the 
use of white phosphorus altogether as Denmark had done, or of producing a 
strike-anywhere match without white phosphorus. I had watched during my 
later visits to France the scientific and practical experiments that were being 
made in that country and the results that were being obtained. It was 
demonstrated that lucifers could be made, possessing all the qualities claimed 
for the ordinaiy strike-anywhere match, from the harmless sesquisulphide of 
phosphorus. It only required time to test the durability of the matches thus 
made. Nearly six years have elapsed since then, and what is the result':' 
Not only has phosphorus necrosis disappeared from France, and the stringent 
regulations as regards match factories been withdrawn, but in our own 
country, in consequence of the substitution of a comparatively speaking 
harmless form of phosphorus for the deadly white by our largest manufacturers, 
industrial phosphorus poisoning in Britain has materially diminished, and 
match making has ceased to be the daaigerous occupation it was. In addition 
to improvement in the health of match makers there has been, spealiing for 
my own neighbourhood, a marked diminution in the number of cases of suicide 
from phosphorus poisoning. Not a year used to pass without several patients 
being admitted into the Newcastle Infirmary suffering from suicidal phosphorus 
poisoning, due to having drunk water in which lucifer matches had been 
soaked, and of these patients one or two would probably die. For the last two 
years, although cases of match poisoning have been admitted, the patients no 
longer present the serious symptoms as formerly, not because the cases are 
better treated outside before their admission into the Infirmary, but because 
many of the matches sold in the shops are not made from white phosphorus. 

The Present Hygfienic Aspect of the British Lucifer Match 
industry. The lucifer match manufacturers of Britain are to be congratulated 
upon the effects of the improvements introduced into their factories as seen in 
the improved health of their workpeople. By having substituted comparatively 
speaking harmless compounds for dangerous white phosphorus, necrosis of the 
jaw and phosphorus poisoning in match makers are becoming each year rarer 
and rarer events. Messrs. Bryant and May, who are the largest manufacturers, 
have discontinued the use of white phosphorus in their works at Bow, and since 
doing this, the health of their employees has been extremely satisfactory. By 
the introduction of machinery whereby the mixing, dipping, drying, and 
boxing are done mechanically in large and well-ventilated rooms, the Diamond 
Match Company at Liverpool have demonstrated how the hygiene of match 
making can be promoted. Thus once again it is demonstrated how, under the 
stimulus of human necessity, science not only points the way but has shown 
herself capable of solving some of the numerous chemical problems that are 
constantly arising in the course of British industries. However satisfactory 
these industries may appear to be on the surface, they are like man himself 
ever undergoing a process of evolution and thus tending towards perfection. 



14 OLIVER 



II.— POISONING BY SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN. 

Death from breathing sulphuretted hydrogen is fortunately a rare occurence, 
and yet in my own neighbourhood 18 months ago, and within the space of five 
weeks, this gas caused the death of four healthy men and imperilled the lives 
of three others. Sulphuretted hydrogen or hydrogen sulphide is a colourless 
transparent gas, burning with a blue flame ; it has the peculiar odour which is 
given off by rotten eggs. When present to the extent of 1 in 100,000 of air it 
is recognizable by this unpleasant odour. It is readily soluble in water. At 
ordinary temperatures, water is capable of absorbing three volumes of the gas. 
Sulphuretted hydrogen is occasionally present in considerable quantities in the 
sewers of towns and in cesspools. It is evolved from the tank waste thrown out 
of chemical factories, and is given off from the slag of iron works. In chemical 
laboratories where the pure gas is made, inhalation of sulphuretted hydrogen 
by students, inattentive to ventilation, has been followed by serious symptoms. 

Mode of Occurrence and Lesions. 

It was my fortune to be brought into contact with the deadly effects of this 
gas a little over a year ago. I do not think that members of the medical 
profession are fully alive to the extreme danger that attends inhalation of 
sulphuretted hydrogen. In the " Lancet," of January 24th of last year, I 
published an account of the death of three workmen due to breathing hydrogen 
sulphide while engaged in making excavations for a graving dock at Hebburn- 
on-Tyne. One evening in July, 1902, a workman descended an open iron 
caisson or cylinder at 6-30. There were only a few inches of water in the 
cylinder at the time, which had oozed out of the surrounding soil largely made 
up of chemical waste and iron slag. This man had only been in the cylinder a 
few minutes when screams having been heard a fellow workman went to his 
rescue, but he could hardly have reached the scene of the accident, when 
screams again were heard. A third workman then descended the caisson; he 
too was heard to shout and immediately all was silence. In the space of a very 
few minutes three men were lying dead at the bottom of a cylinder which 
contained, as I have said, only a few inches of water. Notwithstanding 
numerous efforts made by the manager and gangs of workmen, some of whom 
were lowered down by ropes into the cylinder, it was found impossible that 
evening, on account of the over-powering effects of the gas, to remove the 
bodies. As naked lights burned well in the cylinder it was clear that the gas 
was not carbonic acid. Next morning the corpses were recovered, and on the 
following day, assisted by Mr. Malcolm, of Hebburn, I made a post-mortem 
examination on two of the bodies. 

(1) A man 23 years of age ; strongly built, muscles well developed ; face pale 
and cyanosed; body not decomposing. On opening the cavities no special 
odour perceptible. Heart: right side flaccid and empty; left side hard, empty 
and contracted. Lungs oedematous and pale. Liver dark; abdominal viscera 
healthy. Blood fluid and dark. 

(2) Youth aged 19, well developed ; rigor mortis still present ; hands clenched 
as if death had occurred during a convulsion; face cyanosed. No odour of 



PHOSPHORUS 15 

sulphuretted hydrogen on opening the cavities of the body. Heart : right side 
flaccid and empty; left side firmly contracted, hard and empty. Lungs pale 
and cedematous. Liver dark; abdominal viscera healthy. The blood was dark 
and liquid. 

On making a spectroscopic examination, the blood, in both instances, gave 
the spectrum of ordinary oxyhsemoglobin, and as it was readily reduced by 
ammonium sulphide it was therefore quite free from carbon monoxide. As the 
air in the caisson smelt strongly of sulphuretted hydrogen I submitted some of 
the water taken from the bottom of the cylinder to Professor Bedson of the 
College of Science, who reported that in each 100 volumes of water there were 
12'2 of sulphuretted hydrogen. 

Five weeks after the death of these three men another accident occurred in 
the caisson whereby one man lost his life and three other workmen nearly theirs. 
On this occasion, owing to the progress of the excavations, the cylinder had 
sunk deeper into the earth, and it now contained 46 feet of water. A diver 
who had been at work had signalled that he was coming up, and was about to 
emerge on to a wooden platform in the caisson when a workman who had been 
standing there leaned down to open the diver's helmet, but being overcome by 
the fumes fell on to the diver in a state of unconsciousness. Help was shouted 
for, and in a very few minutes two other workmen were in the cylinder trying 
to render assistance. All four men, however, were overcome by the gas and 
had to be rescued. When they were removed it was found that the man who 
had tried to unscrew the diver's helmet was dead. By means of inhalations of 
oxygen, hypodermic administrations of ether and liquor strychniae, warmth 
externally, etc.. Dr. A. M. Walker, of Hebburn, succeeded in restoring the 
diver and two of the rescued workmen. 

Shortly after the second accident. Professor Vivian B. Lewes, of London, 
was asked to report upon the chemical conditions present in the cylinder which 
at the time contained water to within 16 feet of the surface. Four hundred 
gallons of this water when agitated with air were found to be capable of giving 
ofl: one cubic foot of HgS, therefore it only required 800 gallons of the water 
to be agitated in order to yield sufiicient gas to render the whole of the air in the 
cylinder fatally poisonous. As the depth of the water in the cylinder was 
48 feet there would be approximately 37,000 gallons present. Very little 
agitation would be required to evolve a dangerous quantity of sulphuretted 
hydrogen. The ascent of the diver would be more than enough to do this. 
Lewes recommended a clearing away of the soil, over the area to be occupied 
by the dock down to the bed of clay, in the hope that by thus exposing the 
whole of the sulphuretted hydrogen yielding area to air, the gas would be 
oxidised and rendered harmless. This was done by the contractors, and it is 
gratifying to know that no further fatalities occurred. 

Mode of Action 

Here then within the space of five weeks were four men whose lives were 
suddenly terminated by breathing gas the nature of which was at once suggested 
by the peculiar odour that prevailed at the place. With the aid of my 
colleague, Dr. E,. A. Bolam, I made a few experiments to test the toxicity of 
sulphuretted hydrogen. Until then I had had no experience of HjS being 



16 OLIVER 

sucli a powerful poison. When we placed a dog in an atmosphere containing 
0-15 per cent, of sulphuretted hydrogen, the animal very shortly afterwards, 
and without any signs of distress or warning, became rigid and fell apparently 
dead, its breathing having ceased. On removing the dog from the chamber, 
as its heart could be heard beating at very long intervals, artificial respiration 
was adopted, and by degrees life was restored. Some little time after this, on 
re-exposing the dog to an atmosphere containing 015 per cent, of sulphuretted 
hydrogen, apparent death occurred in Imin. 40sec. Death was in this 
instance preceded by a strong general muscular spasm and by cessation of 
respiration, but again life was restored. Subsequent exposure of the animal 
to an atmosphere containing 0-2 per cent, of the gas killed it suddenly and 
painlessly. Death appeared to be due to a strong impression made by the gas 
either upon the respiratory centre in the medulla, or upon the termination of 
the vagal nerves in the lungs, for the heart continued to beat, feebly and at 
long intervals, after the animal was apparently dead. At the autopsy made 
shortly after death, the heart was found to be flaccid, dilated and filled with 
liquid blood on both sides. The lungs were pale and presented nothing 
abnormal. The blood on examination gave the spectrum of oxyhsemoglobin 
and was easily reduced. 

In order to ascertain whether blood if exposed to HgS for a sufiicient 
length of time would exhibit any particular spectrum we exposed to the gas 
some defibrinated ox blood freely diluted, and we found that after one minute's 
exposure the liquid became chocolate coloured and then green. On examining 
the altered serum, although it gave the spectrum of methsemoglobin, viz., one 
band in the red and two in the green, the haemoglobin became slowly reduced 
after the addition of ammonium sulphide. Renewed experiments demonstrated to 
Bolam and myself that when sulphuretted hydrogen acts only for a very short 
time upon blood methsemoglobin is not immediately formed. It is probable 
therefore that in fatal cases of poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen, owing to 
death coming so quickly, man is not exposed long enough to the gas for 
methsemoglobin to be developed, a circumstance which explains the absence of 
the spectrum of methaemoglobin in the blood of persons who have died from 
inhalation of the gas. 

Toxity of H,,S. 

Since HjS is a frequent constituent of the air of sewers it is important to 
bear in mind the toxicity of the gas. The gaseous emanations from sewers 
when submitted by Layet to chemical analysis were found to contain sulphur- 
etted hydrogen, ammonium, sulphide, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and 
phosphoretted hydrogen. According to Lehman* an atmosphere which con- 
tains 07 to 08 of HjS per 1,000 litres of air is dangerous to human life, while 
air containing 1 to 15 per 1,000 destroys life rapidly. Vivian Lewes states that 
man is killed in 1| minutes after breathing air containing '2 per cent, of HjS. 
The sudden death of men when working in sewers is in most instances due to 
sulphuretted hydrogen. When only minute quantities of this gas are present 

*"Archiv fiir Hygiene," 1892. Band xiv., p. 135. 



SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN 17 

in the sewer the workmen complain of vertigo, headache, and malaise which 
disappear shortly after the men have been taken out into the fresh air, but 
occasionally it happens that a workman in the sewers suddenly falls as if 
struck down in apoplexy and in a few seconds life is found to be extinct. 
Decomposition of fsecal matter is one of the principal sources of hydrogen 
sulphide in the sewers, but the air of these canals may be vitiated by other 
poisonous gases, e.g., carbon monoxide, which, coming from a leak in a pipe 
that is carrying gas for illuminating purposes, has escaped into the soil and is 
aspirated into the sewers. 

Types of Poisoning and Treatment. 

Two types of poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen are met with. In one 
form of poisoning death is immediate ; the individual falls down dead as if 
struck by lightning; the pupil is dilated, the limbs are firmly contracted, 
breathing is arrested, but the heart still beats occasionally; the blood is dark, 
but its haemoglobin is unaltered. Death under these circumstances is due to 
the action of the gas upon the respiratory nerve centres. In the other form of 
poisoning, death comes more slowly. To the nervous phenomena described 
there are added those caused by asphyxia. The blood is not only dark but its 
haemoglobin may be altered, while the urine may contain albumen or sugar. 

No matter then what kind of work, at a particular time, men may be 
engaged in, detection of the odour of sulphuretted hydrogen should be regarded 
as a danger signal. As the gas is heavy it lies low in confined spaces. Safety 
consists in the freest ventilation possible, but before allowing men to work in 
suspicious places it would be well to expose therein a piece of white filter paper 
soaked in a solution of a lead or silver salt, blackening of which should be 
regarded as prohibitory. Cylinders of oxygen should be at hand, and in the 
event of men being overpowered by the gas, artificial respiration carried on, 
away from the immediate locality, should be resorted to, liquor strychnia 
injected, and warmth applied externally. 

III.-POISONING BY CARBON MONOXIDE: COAL GAS, 

WATER GAS. 

Presence of Carbon Monoxide in Various Products. 

Carbon monoxide is a veiy poisonous gas. It is formed when charcoal is 
burned in an insufficient quantity of oxygen, and it owes its toxic properties to 
the fact that the gas enters into direct combination with the haemoglobin of the 
blood, forming with it an extremely stable compound; once this has taken place 
the blood is useless for respiratory purposes. Carbon monoxide is colourless, 
odourless and tasteless. When it has caused poisoning it has generally been in 
association with other gases, one of the commonest of wliich is coal gas 
used for illuminating purposes, in which it may be present to the extent of 
5 to 10 per cent., while water gas, also an illuminant, may contain from 30 to 40 
per cent, of carbon monoxide. It is the carbon monoxide which confers upon 
these gases their toxic properties. The products of combustion of these gases 
do not contain carbon monoxide. The gas is present in the fumes given off 



18 OLIVER 

from coke ovens and from charcoal stoves. Carbon monoxide unites with, nickel 
to form nickel-carbonyl, an extremely toxic liquid as the recent deaths of 
workmen at Clydach show. Injurious effects from breathing carbon monoxide 
are sometimes observed in limestone burners and cement workers, coal miners 
after the explosion of fire-damp, coal gas makers, distillers of coal tar, lamp- 
black makers, labourers employed in iron smelting works, laundresses who use 
irons heated by gas, brickmakers, also in occupants of houses into which there 
has been an escape of coal gas. 

Mode of Action* The haemoglobin of the blood absorbs carbon monoxide 
in the same proportion as it does oxygen. When oxyhsemoglobin is treated by 
carbon monoxide this gas is substituted volume for volume of the oxygen that 
is displaced, the only difference being that a more stable compound is the result. 
The carboxyhaemoglobin thus formed, although capable of resisting the action 
of sulphuretted hydrogen, can yet be decomposed and its place taken by nitrous 
oxide. An atmosphere which contains 014 per cent, of carbon monoxide will 
transform half of the colouring matter of the blood into carboxyhsemoglobin. 
Carbon monoxide is a much more powerful poison than carbon dioxide. 

The blood in carbon monoxide poisoning exhibits a beautiful cherry red 
colour, so, too, do the internal organs and the muscles of the body, and yet, 
although the blood has a redder tint than in health the tissues are unable to 
abstract oxygen from it, on account of the strong attachment that exists 
between carbon monoxide and haemoglobin. In carbon monoxide poisoning 
therefore a person dies simply from want of oxygen. On examining the blood 
spectroscopically two bands are seen between the D and E lines, not unlike 
those observed in oxyhsemoglobin, but when the blood is subjected to the 
influence of such reducing agents as Stokes' fluid or ammonium sulphide, it is 
found that no reduction takes place, the two bands remain the same, whereas 
in oxyhsemoglobin that has undergone reduction, the two bands have been 
■ replaced by a broad one. 

Toxic Quantities. Grehant found that inhalation of an atmosphere 
containing 1 of CO for 275 of air was fatal to a dog, and that 1 in 70 killed 
a rabbit. Less than a gramme of carbon monoxide may kill a man. Breathing 
an atmosphere containing 005 per cent, of CO may cause unpleasant if not 
even serious symptoms. A few minutes after inhalation of the gas its presence 
may be detected in the blood. 

Mode of Occurrence of Carbon Monoxide Poisoning:. Illumin- 
ating gas is a frequent source of poisoning owing to its escape into a sleeping-room. 
If this occurs during the night and the sufferer is asleep he passes quietly from 
ordinary slumber into a state of profound coma, owing to the narcotising 
influence of the gas upon the nerve centres. Insidious as is the operation of 
ordinary coal gas, it is nothing to be compared with the subtle action of water 
gas. In this illuminant which is made by heating coke to a red heat, forcing 
air up through the coke, shutting off the air and allowing steam to pass down 
through the mass, subsequent removal of, and purification of, the gas, there are 
50 per cent, of hydrogen and often as much as 40 per cent, of carbon monoxide. 



SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN 19 

Much sought after on account of its heating and brilliant illuminating 
properties, it is extremely dangerous (1) owing to the gas having little or no 
odour, and (2) owing to the extremely large percentage of carbon monoxide it 
contains. 

In certain chemical works the manufacture of nickel carbonyl has been 
followed by rather serious results owing probably to inhalation of carbon 
monoxide, but as the manufacture is carried on in closed vessels, poisoning of 
the workmen has generally been due to some accidental and unforeseen break- 
down of the machinery. 

Men have been found dead near coke ovens and brick kilns, and the cause of 
death has generally been ascribed, and properly too, to inhalation of carbon 
monoxide. Within the last three weeks I have had the opportunity of examin- 
ing the blood of a man aged 54, who was found dead close to a kiln in one of the 
large cement works on Tyneside. Dr. Inglis of Hebburn who made a post- 
mortem examination of the body was struck by the placidity of the features, 
the pallor of the general surface of the body, cherry-red colour of the blood, 
the rather pink colour of the brain at the junction of the white and grey 
substance, vivid carmine colour of certain portions of the lungs, the presence 
of a small quantity of reddish fluid in the pericardium, empty left heart, and 
the presence of a small quantity of cherry-red blood in the right ventricle. 
Dr. Inglis sent me a sample of the blood which, on being submitted to 
spectroscopic examination, was found to exhibit distinctly the two bands 
between the D and E lines. It was not reduced by ammonium sulphide and 
heating, a circumstance which clenched the diagnosis of carbon monoxide 
poisoning that had been advanced. 

The Syinptomsare due to asphyxia consequent upon want of oxygen to 
the nerve centres, and they depend upon the percentage of carbon monoxide in the 
air breathed, the rapidity of breathing, the presence of other gases, and the age 
of the individual. The quantity of CO present in the air is of more importance 
than the length of exposure to it. In acute intoxication the individual feels 
dizzy and complains of headache, noises in the ears, throbbing in the temples, 
a feeling of sleepiness and a sense of fatigue. There may be a feeling of 
sickness which culminates in vomiting, a sense of oppression at the chest with 
quickened or irregular breathing, palpitation, and an inability to stand or walk 
straight. Convulsions may or may not come on, or there may be only a few 
muscular tremors. There is a peculiar fixed look about the eyes, the pupils of 
which are dilated and their reaction slow. Consciousness by degrees is lost or 
it may be retained for some time, and yet owing to the great loss of motor 
power the individual, although aware of the danger, is often unable to escape 
from it. When a man has recovered from the effects of carbon monoxide, his 
life is still imperilled for some days to come. Not only does he run the risk of 
dying as late as eight days after the accident, he has still to face the risk of 
secondary maladies developing, such for example as glycosuria. Ilasse found 
sugar present to the extent of 1 per cent, in the urine of men poisoned by 
carbon monoxide, and in animals experimented upon the quantity of sugar in 
the urine often rose to 42 per cent. I have known acute symptoms develop and 
paralysis follow in workmen who, when digging in the street, had been exposed 



20 OLIVER 

to the escape of coal gas from the soil impregnated by gas from a leaking pipe. 
Chronic carbon monoxide poisoning does not reveal itself by a very definite 
series of symptoms. There may be headache, sickness, diarrhoea, impaired 
digestion, dry throat, physical and mental depression, also anaemia. 

A statement of the symptoms experienced by Dr. Inglis, who went to 
examine the place where the body of the man was found, whose blood I 
examined, may not be out of place here. Dr. Inglis could not have been in the 
place more than 30 seconds when he began to feel giddy, had a sense of 
throbbing and fulness about the head, and a feeling of great muscular weakness 
so that he had to catch hold of a workman's arm to save himself from falling. 
All the way home he had to walk very slowly on account of weakness in his legs 
and a feeling of oppression at the heart. His pulse, which on an average is 72, 
was reduced to 60 per minute. It was not until a good night's rest and sleep 
that he felt himself right again. 

Post-mortem Appearances. Features placid, face and skin may exhibit 
a bright ruddy colour even when the body is decomposing, or be as in Inglis' 
patient, pale. The blood is of a bright cherry-red colour, both arterial and 
venous ; a similar colour is exhibited by the muscles on section. There may be 
hypersemia of the brain and membranes, and on section the white substance of 
the brain may be more pink than usual. Any serum present in the pleura or 
pericardium is tinged red. The myocardium is usually pale or red ; the left side 
of the heart is empty, while the right heart may contain a fair quantity of 
cherry-red blood. The lungs maybe emphysematous or there maybe hypersemia 
or oedema. Red patches may be observed on the surface of the abdominal 
viscera, ajid occasionally there are submucous haemorrhages in the stomach and 
intestines. 

Detection of Carbon Monoxide in the Air. Yogel's method 
was to agitate a small quantity of diluted healthy blood with some of 
the suspected air, and to examine the blood spectroscopically. Hempel, 
on the other hand, used to place a mouse in the suspected atmosphere and 
shortly afterwards examine its blood. Haldane, of Oxford, has shown that in 
man the symptoms of poisoning become alarming when half of the haemoglobin 
has become saturated with carbon monoxide, or when the individual has been 
breathing an atmosphere containing 02 per cent, of carbon monoxide. About 
half of the carbon monoxide contained in the respired air is absorbed by the 
blood as it traverses the lungs. The disappearance of carbon monoxide from 
the blood when the individual is brought out into the open air, and when 
respiration is naturally or artificially caiTied on, is always slower than its 
absorption during the period of poisoning. 

Prevention of Poison ingf. To Haldane we are indebted for 
a very important and practical suggestion bearing upon this question. 
The time required for symptoms of poisoning to show themselves in 
warm-blooded animals, breathing a gaseous mixture in which there is 
a certain percentage of carbon monoxide, is inversely proportional to 
the value of the respiratory exchanges per unit of weight. This period is 



CARBON MONOXIDE 2J 

20 times shorter in a mouse than in a man. A mouse will die in three minutes 
in an atmosphere in which man could live for one hour. The importance of 
this test therefore is apparent when, after explosion in coal mines, men, in 
order to rescue if possible their comrades, have to penetrate into the recesses 
of a coalpit. Carried in a small cage by the rescuing band a mouse is a 
practical indicator of the danger from this gas. If the animal continues to 
live the men may proceed, but even if it dies there is yet nearly an hour during 
which some good may be still effected. At any rate there is always time for the 
rescuing band to retire with safety to their own lives. 



To those desirous of studying this group of diseases the following works may 
be recommended for consultation : — 

" Traite des Maladies Prof essionnelles," par Dr. Tlieo. Sommerfeld. Tome 1. Translated by Dr. 

G. De Geynst. Brussels. Libraire Alfred Costaigne. 1901. 
"Journal of Hygiene," Cambridge. 

" Poisons : their Effects and Detection," by A. Wynter Blyth. London : Griffin & Co. 
*' Dangerous Trades," edited by Thomas Oliver, M.D. London : Murray. 1902. 
" Recherches Experimen tales sur la Respiration," par le Dr. L. G. de Saint Martin. Paris : Octave 

Doin. 1893. 
" Les Asphyxies par les Gas, les Vapeurs, et les Anesthesiqnes," par Brouardel. Paris. 1896. 
" Encyclopedie d'Hygiene et de Medicine Publiciue." Tome VI. Directeur Dr. Jules Rocliard. 1894. 
"System of Medicine." Vol. II. Article on Phosphorus. Edited by Clifford Allbutt. London: 

Macmillan & Co. 
"Report to the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the use of Phosphorus in the 

Manufacture of Lucifer Matches." Messrs. Eyre and Spottiswoode. London, 1899. 
" Reports to the Home Secretary on Water Gas and Colliery Explosions," by John Haldane, M.D. 
" Les Gas dii Sang." G reliant. 

" Annales d'Hygiene Publique et de Medicine Legale." 

"Maladies Profession elles, Commission d'Hygifene Industrielle. Paris, 1903. 
" Etudes sur le Phospliore et le Phosphorisme Professionel," par le Dr. Francois Arnaud. Paris. 

Balliere et Fils. 
" Dictionnaire de Physiologie. " Charles Richet. Paris: Felix Alcan. 



spread of Typhoid Fever, Dysentery, 
and Allied Diseases among large 
communities, with special reference 
to Military Life in Tropical and 
Sub-tropical Countries. 



COLONEL J. LANE NOTTER 

(Late R.A.M.C.), 
M.A., M.U., D.P.H. 



Spread of Typhoid Fever, Dysentery, and Allied 
Diseases among large communities. 

Introduction. 

It was with some diffidence that I accepted the position I occupy to-day, 
as I am fully aware of the responsibility attached to it, and not the least has 
been my difficulty in the selection of a subject on which to address you, which 
I could hope to present in a manner at all worthy of the occasion. I trust, 
therefore, the one I have chosen will not be thought foreign to this course of 
lectures. It is one of great interest to the Military Medical Officer, as well as 
to those of our own profession, whose lot is cast to live and combat with disease, 
not only at home but in tropical and sub-tropical climates. 

General Considerations. 

It is a well-recognised fact that certain diseases prevail in an endemic form 
within a measured range of distribution over the earth's surface, and from 
these endemic centres epidemics spread, either in isolated groups or devastating 
campaigns which have claimed its numberless victims. 

Enteric Fever, as regards its frequency and diffusion, marks widely its 
difference from all other forms of disease ; it knows no geographical limits, and 
its very universality and infectiveness makes it one of peculiar interest to 
Medical Officers of the Army, who, serving in various parts of the world, have 
ever to contend against this disease, often assuming as it does an epidemic 
form. 

One of the most interesting points in connection with the literature upon 
enteric fever is the suggestion that many of the cases which are clinically 
diagnosed to be enteric, and presumably caused by infection, due to the bacillus 
of Eberth and Gaffky, are really instances of iiifeclioii by the colon bacillus, or 
possibly by both it and the bacillus typhosus. Cases, reported by Burch in the 
Medical Journal of New York, May 31st, 1902, bear out this view. His patients 
all suffered from continued fever preceded by malaise, and invariably accom- 
panied by some gastro-intestinal disturbance ; the tongue was dry and foul, the 
abdomen was usually distended, there was gurgling and pain in the iliac fossa ; 
headache and mild delirium were not unusual. Examination of the blood 
showed a diminution of leucocytes, while the urine swarmed with the bacillus 
coli communis. With the Griiber-Widal reaction the serum failed to specific- 
ally affect the bacillus typhosus, though it did agglutinate the urinary bacilli. 
None of the cases apparently terminated fatally. 



26 LANE NOTTER 

Many of the Medical Officers of the Army are familiar with cases of this 
kind. Clinically and pathologically they are indistinguishable from classical 
enterica, but bacteriologically they are not, as the sera are specific only to the 
colon bacilli, while from the spleen and blood only these micro-organisms are 
recoverable. It is difficult to see why these cases should not be regarded as 
instances of pure infection by the colon bacillus, for it is exceedingly improbable 
that all of them should fail to react to the enteric bacillus, if in reality they 
were cases of enteric fever. Similar in nature and equally interesting are other 
cases, in which the infecting agent would seem to have been organisms inter- 
mediate between the enteric and colon bacilli, and which are variously termed 
para-typhoid and para-colon according to whether they approach culturally to 
one or other type. 

It has for sometime been observed that the bacillus coli has a share in the 
causation of enteric fever, and Sanarelli's experiments on the influence of the 
coli toxins in raising the virulence of the bacillus typhosus has emphasized this 
fact. Man may have enteric bacillus in an attenuated form in 
his intestines and may remain in perfect health, but if other toxins invade the 
body, they may add new virulence and activity, and establish the specific 
disease. 

In the Army in the field in South Africa many cases of enteric fever 
followed on an acute attack of dysentery, so that apparently the dysentery 
determined the attack of enteric fever. There appears, therefore, to be a causal 
relationship between both these diseases. Further, as to the nature of enteric 
fever we are indebted to Wasdin (^American Medicine, February 8th, 1902) for 
the original and very interesting suggestion that the majority of cases of the 
disease are probably pneumonic in origin, the primary spot of infection being 
somewhere in the respiratory tract, whence the germ invades the general 
circulation. In support of this view he claims to have readily located, upon 
first examination, an area of lung corresponding to such infection. Wasdin 
says many of these cases might be overlooked as being merely simply bronchitis, 
but the condition is unilateral and the sputum contains bacteria indistinguish- 
able from bacillus typhosus and accompanied by pneumococci. 

In the " Annates" of the Pasteur Institute,Yol.ii.,ip. 55, 1897, P. Remlinger 
and G. Schneider discuss the question : Does the bacillus typhosus exist in 
nature outside the sick man, and the products which emanate from him? A 
series of experiments extending over many months was carried out on various 
materials, such as the public water supplies and wells of several towns having 
epidemics of typhoid, the soil and dust from different localities, the discharges 
from the digestive tract of persons not affected with typhoid, etc. ; and a bacillus 
giving all the principal laboratory reactions of that of typhoid was obtained 
from all these sources. In 13 samples of soil and dust the bacillus typhosus 
was found seven times : (a) in the refuse from barracks where there were some 
cases of typhoid; (6) in dust from the laboratory floor; (c) in the space between 
the joists of a room in other barracks; (d) in four specimens of soil both 
superficial and a metre in depth from the courts and gardens of the Val-de- 
Grace. These, in three instances, were pathogenic for animals. In the examina- 
tion of the faeces of ten persons treated at the hospital for affections which had 
nothing in common with typhoid, five reacted like the bacillus typhosus. Thus 



TYPHOID FEVER 27 

(a) in a case of leukaemia specimens examined at intervals of fifteen days, {^ave 
each time a positive result; (6) in one case of acute tuberculosis without 
intestinal lesions; (c) in a case of premonitory dysentery; (d) in two cases of 
chronic malaria. None of these patients had ever had typhoid fever. Of the 
bacilli from these five cases four were pathogenic for guinea pigs. 

In many additional cultures from water, soil and the intestines, bacilli with 
every characteristic of the bacillus typhosus were found, except that they were not 
pathogenic for animals and were not agglutinated by the serum from a typhoid 
patient. In other words they seemed the same species but attenuated as to 
virulence. " It is allowable," they state, " to suppose that facts of a similar 
kind reproduce themselves in connection with the bacillus typhosus. The 
species of the bacillus of Eberth comprehends, perhaps, varieties more or less 
numerous, which do not probably react similarly under the influence of the 
serum of an animal immunised against a determined variety. The belief in the 
invariability of type in pathogenic microbes is to-day much weakened by many 
facts. The question of race, descendants from a common stock, but altered by 
unknown vicissitudes, acquires an importance which must not be underrated. 
Why should not this theory apply to the bacillus typhosus? We incline to 
think that bacilli, not pathogenic, and indifferent to the serum test which are 
encountered in water, soil, etc., are only varieties of the bacillus typhosus; at 
least, the parentage is evident even if the identity is not absolute. The 
diversity of fundamental type will, perhaps, serve to explain the variable forms 
of typhoid infection which are becoming recognised. If this interpretation of 
facts is exact the following conclusions will result. The bacillus typhosus is 
distributed in nature outside the human body; it is found in water, in soil, in 
the intestines of persons not attacked with typhoid, and without doubt forms 
part of the microbic flora of the media which surrounds us. This idea is not 
subversive of recognised facts as to the general etiology of typhoid, but rather 
enables us to conceive and comprehend facts otherwise inexplicable. Daily 
observations, especially noted in rural places, have set in relief the part played 
by contagion in the formation and extension of certain epidemic centres; their 
value remains. Modern researches have demonstrated the prime importance of 
impure waters in its development and spread ; the character of the proof defies 
all question. But all the cases must originate from contagion or water polluted 
with the dejections of typhoid patients. Many times it breaks out in patients 
or groups worn out with fatigue, overwork, or privations, or after eating various 
foods, without its being possible to trace the origin of the contagion or the use 
of badly polluted water. The facts conform more easily with the widespread 
presence of the bacillus typhosus which accounts for its dispersion in surround- 
ing media, and its presence eventually in our natural cavities. A water reputed 
pure may carry it. Thus introduced into the organism it will live there 
unoffensive till some depressing circumstance, a fortuitous assistance, perhaps 
the result of some associated microbe, will open up to it a career of action." 

Influence of the Soil. 

The next point to which I would invite your attention is the influence of 
soil upon what may be termed an ubiquitous disease, for the geographical 
distribution of enteric fever indicates that the incidence of the affection is as 



28 LANE NOTTER 

wide as the globe, Laving tlie same characteristics and taking a leading place 
in the statistics of mortality equally in Northern Europe and America as in 
Australia, the Cape, India, Central Asia and the Mediterranean. For some 
years it was widely believed that the tropics enjoyed a more or less complete 
immunity from it; but from the facts carefully collected during recent times, 
and the overwhelming evidence as to the occurrence of enteric fever throughout 
the whole of India, in Burmah, the Straits' Settlements, Mauritius, the West 
Coast of Africa, Egypt, the West Indies, Brazil, the Transvaal, Orange-River 
Colony and the Cape, and the frequent cases of enteric sickness among crews 
of ships in harbours in the tropics, shows that the diffusion of the disease is 
limited by neither degrees of heat nor general atmospheric states. Observations 
made at the most diverse points of the globe, and the general distribution area 
of the disease, show that mere questions of elevation, or even configuration of 
ground, have little influence on the occurrence of the affection. On the other 
hand, the same observations go to show that the disease is met with oftener on 
more recent formations than on the older, which so far as concerns the physical 
conditions of the soil is identical with the questions of permiability to air and 
water. Magne, quoted by Hirsch, made enquiries into this matter, using as his 
material the epidemiological reports sent in to the Paris Academy of Medicine 
from 1841 to 1863, omitting 1858. Of the 757 epidemics reported 564 occurred 
on the more recent formations, 64 on the primary transition rocks, while the 
remainder were on soils belonging partly to the older and partly to the more 
recent formations. 

An inquiry by R. H. Firth worked out on similar lines, chiefly from the 
Local Government Board Reports for the twenty years 1871 — 1890, as to the 
outbreaks of enteric fever in the British Isles, indicates, so far as the occurrence 
of the disease in different soils, the following facts : — 

On Sandstones (Penrith, Oswestry) 5 outbreaks. 

Millstone Grit (Garstang, Ripley, Pateley Bridge) 12 „ 

Red Sandstone (Abergavenny, Middleton, Spode) 19 „ 

Variegated Marls (Drayton, Nottingham, Retford, Gainsboro')... 43 „ 

Magnesium Limestone (Sedgefield,Wingate, Denton, Loughboro') 28 „ 

Oxford Clay (Highworth, Wootton Bassett, Newbridge) 32 „ 

Oolite (Northampton, Southwick, Gloucester) 51 „ 

Weald Clays (Neehurst, Caxton, Linfield, Hastings) 37 „ 

Chalk & Chalk Marl (Hadham, Marlboro', Andover, Winchester) 103 „ 

London Clay (Ealing, Hounslow, London generally) 152 „ 

Middle Coema (Ringwood, Portsmouth, Winckfiekl) 17 „ 

Gravels (Tunstall, Lowestoffe, Hadleigh, Northwold) 136 „ 

Gravel on Clay (Dublin, Ipswich, Spalding, Walton) 129 „ 

Drift (Westbeach, Wolverton, Buxton, Peterboro') 122 „ 

Even admitting the incomplete character of these data, yet their general 
tenour is deserving of consideration, which is such, that in regard to both upper 
and lower soils, the proper determining factor is the penetration of the ground 
by air and water as well as its hygroscopic character. On the oldest rocks, we 
must remember, there is always a more or less considerable layer of mineral 
and vegetable detritus, which gives to the soil the same physical characters as 
the more recent formations possess; and thereby the value of each kind of soil, 



TYPHOID FEVER 29 

so far as concerns the presence of enteric fever, is reduced to the mean standard 
of porosity. Porosity is, in fact, practically identical with the capacity of any 
soil for water. Although enteric fever is as often prevalent on a wet ground 
as on a dry one, still we are unable to say that either absolute dryness or 
absolute dampness of soil appears to be decisive one way or the other. Not- 
withstanding this there have not been wanting authorities who have maintained 
that the disease is connected with changes in the soil moisture and the rise and 
fall of the ground water. The foremost exponent of this view has been Buhl, 
who, following Pettenkofer's suggestion and inquiries at Munich, formulated 
the following law : " Between the fluctuations of the subsoil water and the 
amount and severity of typhoid, there is an unmistakeable connection in this 
wise, that the total cases of sickness and death from typhoid falls with the 
rise of the subsoil water and rises with the fall of it ; that the level reached by 
the disease is not in proportion, however, to the then level of the subsoil water, 
but only to the variation of it on each occasion; or in other words, that it is 
not the high or low level of the subsoil water that is decisive, but only the 
fluctuation." 

This may be very true of Munich, and it seems, too, to be confirmed by 
other observers in regard to other parts of Germany, notably by Socin at Basle, 
Pribram at Pragne, Jacoby at Brislaw, Seidal at Leipzig, Virchow at Berlin, 
and Schiffendeker at Konigsberg; still other workers, particularly in England 
and India, have not found evidence to support the principle as defined and laid 
down in Buhl's law. As Hirsch has remarked, this law cannot be expected 
to hold good equally for all times and places. Nor is it to be wondered at, 
considering that we are dealing with a factor of disease whose potency may be 
modified by many peculiarities of locality and soil. Moreover, fluctuations in 
the subsoil water, as well as mere saturated states of the ground in general, 
are not in any case the sole causes of the outbreak of a typhoid epidemic. We 
see examples of this where the disease has occurred in places where the depths 
of the water bearing stratum has been such as to quite preclude any question 
of the influence of soil water fluctuations on the surface soil ; and, too, in cases 
where the disease has been traced to infection by other media, such as sewer 
emanations or personal contagion. As Buchanan pointed out, the experience 
of most English towns is that when by drainage operations the ground water 
has been lowered, typhoid, instead of increasing as it should do by Buhl's 
theory and law, has actually diminished ; the reason being that these changes 
were coincident with the introduction of pure drinking water and other sanitary 
improvements. Both in this country and in India, that connection between 
the subsoil water fluctuations and the outbreak of enteric fever still remain 
to be determined, and that at any rate other conditions of diftusion appear to 
be far more common. On the other hand, remarkable evidences as to the power 
and influence of a water-logged soil or sewage, containing subsoil water, with 
daily fluctuations of soil water, in promoting the prevalence of enteric, are 
available from Dublin. 

The report on "The Distribution of Enteric Fever in the ri(y of Dublin," by 
the late Dr. Grimshaw and Sir C. A. Cameron, shows that enteric fever prevails 
with great intensity over certain portions of Dublin, and is more or less absent 
in other parts. Examination of the geological structure of Dublin showed that 



30 LANE NOTTER 

a considerable portion of the area was situated on a gravel bed, wbicb is porous, 
and readily absorbs any fluids cast on its surface, these being retained in its 
porous structure owing to the fact that it lies upon an impervious clay. The 
rest of the Dublin district stands on the clay without the intervention of the 
gravel. The gravel bed is situated in the middle of Dublin, and the river 
Liffey, which receives nearly the whole of the city sewage, runs through its 
centre. This gravel bed is saturated with the leakage from sewers and drains, 
and with the equally dirty soakage from the tidal Liffey. The intensity of 
enteric fever prevalence falls on persons living on the porous sewage-water 
logged stratum, whilst those living on the impervious area are but slightly 
affected; while the deaths from enteric fever during the five years ending 
May, 1887, were at the rate of 1 in 365 of the population living on the gravel; 
the rate was 1 in 531 of those living on the impervious clay. 

A contributory factor to this greater prevalence of the fever on the gravel 
is, that it is at a lower elevation than the clay, and in many places rises scarcely 
above high water in the river and its estuary. The gravels in Dublin are, in 
fact, water and sewage logged for a large portion of the 24 hours. The mouths 
of all the main sewers, that discharge their contents into the river, are furnished 
with valvular tidal gates which close automatically. When the tide rises to a 
certain height, the sewers which enter the river below the bridges are, on an 
average, closed for more than 12 hours daily. During this time, all the sewage 
entering the sewers from houses and other places, remains therein, except in 
the case of some of the easterly sewers, which are connected with the pumping 
stations. It is, however, not only the flow of sewage which is thus arrested 
for many hours daily, the subsoil water in the gravel of the low-lying localities 
is prevented from flowing seawards and the soil always is more or less water- 
logged. As the gravel everywhere interposes between the clay and the river, 
the whole of the drainage of the clay, except that portion which enters the 
sewers, passes into the gravel. 

Still more interesting is the fact that the subsoil water level in the gravel 
area fluctuates as much as 7 feet each 24 hours; the figures being 15 and 22. 
Data like these, though not conforming with nor confirming Buhl's theory and 
law, are of great value as demonstrating the potency of marked fluctuations 
of the subsoil water whether at frequent or longer intervals in certain porous 
and polluted soils, such as the gravels in Dublin. The element of pollution of 
the soil is, however, essential, and the rationale of these fluttering fluctuations 
of subsoil water level producing evil, is explained by the power which a rise in 
the level of the subsoil water through a porous soil like gravel must have in 
pushing or forcing air (contaminated only too likely by specific germs) out of 
the soil into house basements, etc. Should the rise in soil water in circum- 
stances such as exist in Dublin coincide with a sudden fall in the barometer, 
which of itself can aspirate the air out of soil, emission or suction of polluted 
and germ-laden soil air would be increased considerably. In truth, certain 
facts noted by Dr. Begbie, of Dublin, prove that the onset of actual cases of 
enteric fever have been coincident with such barometric and soil water 
fluctuations. 

The more recent investigations by Firth and Horrocks, on the viability of 
the enteric bacillus in soil are given in the British McdicalJounial of September 



TYPHOID FEYER 31 

27th, 1902. The conclusions they arrived at are as follows : (1) that there is 
no evidence to show that the enteric bacillus in soil could increase or grow in 
different directions; (2) that the enteric bacillus is capable of being washed 
through at least 18 inches of closely packed soil by means of water; (3) that 
the bacillus survives in moist soil for varying periods, sometimes as long as 
74 days; (4) that the survival of the organism in soil is independent of either 
pollution or the reverse; (5) that its survival is mainly dependent upon the 
amount of moisture present ; (6) that the bacillus is recoverable from dry sands 
after twenty-four days, but if the sand is kept moist the bacillus is not recover- 
able after twelve days, probably from being washed down into the deeper 
layers; (7) that the bacillus rapidly dies out in peat; (8) that from ordinary 
soil kept damp with rain water the bacillus could be recovered on the sixty- 
seventh day, with dilute raw sewage on the fifty-fourth day, with dilute sterile 
sewage on the seventy-fourth day, and that in similar soil the bacillus dis- 
appeared at once from the surface layers after heavy rainfall ; (9) that infective 
material could be readily carried from dried soil and sand by air currents; 
(10) that the bacillus is recoverable from air-dried fabrics, such as khaki drill 
or serge, after periods varying from twenty-four to eighty-four days; (11) that 
'infected dry soil, if blown about as dust, is capable of infecting distant objects 
after twenty-four days from time of desiccation ; (12) that ordinary house flies 
can convey infective matter from secreted or other polluted material to objects 
on which they may walk, rest, or feed, and that such infective matter appears 
to be attached to their heads, legs, bodies and wings, but there is no evidence 
to show that the enteric bacillus passes through their digestive tract. It is 
obvious that these facts, and the conclusions to be drawn from them, have an 
important bearing on practical sanitary questions in civil as well as in military 
life. 

TYPHOID FEVER AND DYSENTERY IN SOUTH AFRICA 
DURING THE BOER WAR. 

I propose now briefly to review some of the facts connected with the outbreaks 
of enteric fever and dysentery which occurred in the Aruiy in South Africa, 

and to point out the preventive measures which it is advisable should be 
undertaken to mitigate the severity of these epidemics. 

The conditions which produce dysentery in armies are akin to those which 
cause enteric fever. In the absence of a fuller knowledge of the nature of 
dysentery, it is sufiicient to regard both this disease and enteric fever as being 
essentially filth diseases, and both due to bacillaiy organisms intimately 
associated with and given off from the excretory products of men and animals. 
Further, that as far as their general etiology is concerned, both diseases may 
be said to have a common origin. 

Influence of A^e. 

At the outset it may be stated that, especially in the early part of the war, 
the Divisions and Brigades were very largely composed of young men. Very 
few appeared to be over 25 years of age, and a large number were considerably 
under it. No doubt many young men, in their anxiety to join the Army in the 



32 LANE NOTTER 

Field, understated their age, but this could hardly account for the large 
numbers of young men in the ranks. Undoubtedly early adult life especially 
predisposes the individual to typhoid fever. Men from 15 to 30 years of age 
are in greatest danger from this disease. Murchison reported 52 per cent, of 
his cases among individuals from 15 to 25 years of age. Fielder found 58 per 
cent, of his cases to range from 20 to 30 years of age. The predisposition to 
this disease at an early age may partly be accounted for by the acquired 
immunity conferred on older men by a previous attack, the nature of which 
they were probably ignorant of. 

The following table shows the admission-rate per 1,000 for enteric fever in 
the Army in India from 1897 — 1901 : — 



Years. 


Under 20. 


20—25. 


25 30. 


30—35 


1897 .. 


330 .... 


.. 44-4 ... 


... 19-6 ... 


... 7-6 


1898 ., 


24-7 .... 


... 53-3 ... 


... 22-2 ... 


... 90 


1899 . 


18-8 .... 


.. 31-3 ... 


... 11-5 ... 


... 5-8 


1900 . 


90 .... 


... 231 ... 


... 120 ... 


... 60 


1901 . 


12-70 .... 


... 18-6 ... 


... 10-7 ... 


... 5-4 



In 1900-01 only few men were sent from England ; owing to the war in 
South Africa the time-expired men were retained, and thus the average age of 

the soldier serving in India was increased. But, if we may draw any conclusions 
from the sickness and mortality statistics of the Army in India, we find that 
there is even a more important factor than age as a predisposing cause. 

Enteric fever most frequently attacks new arrivals. In India the newly- 
arrived soldier suffers most from enteric fever is evident from the following 
table, which shows the ratio per 1,000 of admissions from 1898 — 1901. 

Year. 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 

These figures show that there is a certain immunity afforded by residence, 
and this appears to be much more perfect in tropical and sub-tropical regions 
than in higher latitudes. The protection acquired through acclimatisation and 
seasoning cannot be denied, though what influence of its own a tropical climate 
has in this respect is uncertain. The increased prevalence of enteric fever in 
India has always been accompanied by, and is possibly dependant on, an 
increase in the number of young and recently arrived soldiers in that country. 

It is not possible to give a comparative table for South Africa, but personal 
observation and enquiry goes to show that a certain protection is also acquired 
there by acclimatisation. A dominant factor in the prevalence of this disease 
was the immense numbers of young and recently arrived soldiers for the Army 
there. 



Under 1 year. 


2nd year. 


3rd year. 


4th year. 


5 til year, 


91-3 .... 


.. 38-0 ... 


... 26-6 .... 


.. 231 .. 


.... 20-6 


5T6 .... 


.. 30-3 ... 


... 11-6 .... 


.. 10-7 .. 


.... 8-2 


30-4 .... 


.. 28-3 ... 


... 20-5 .... 


.. 11-8 .. 


.... 121 


37-8 .... 


.. 12-5 ... 


... 181 .... 


.. 11-9 .. 


.... 10-2 



TYPHOID FEVER 33 

Influence of Flies. 

In no previous war has tlie composition of the Army been the same as in 
the great Boer War. Owing to the nature of the country, the character and 
mode of life of the Boers during peace, and the training by their Commandos, 
it was absolutely necessary to employ large numbers of mounted troops, and 
these were out of all proportion to the numbers that compose an Army Corps 
as it then or now exists. The absence of food supplies for men and animals 
throughout the vast areas traversed by these mounted columns in the Transvaal, 
Orange River Colony and the Cape necessitated hugh convoys of Kaffirs and 
ox-waggons to accompany the columns on the march. In a country so exposed 
and with an enemy so agile, it was necessary to form camps on the line of 
march in close formation. These circumscribed camps involved the presence 
of large numbers of animals in close proximity to the men, and with these 
came myriads of flies which have not only a most troublesome cause of dis- 
comfort, but were also the means of distributing and spreading disease among 
the troops. Flies swarmed over infected fsecal matter in the trench latrine 
pits, and fed upon the food issued to the men in tents. The use of quicklime 
did not prevent their invasion. Flies can readily carry enteric infected matter 
from specific excreta and deposit it on the food of men. Such infected matter 
appears to be attached not only to their heads but also to their legs, wings and 
bodies. I have seen in Bloemfontein and Pretoria where the pail system 
for the removal of excreta is the one in use, swarms of flies pass between the 
houses and the latrines which are in close proximity. 

Disposal of" Excreta^ In camps, especially in the tropics and sub- 
tropics, enteric fever and dysentery are always more prone to assume an 
epidemic form than in civil life in England. The reason for this is that camp 
life does not lend itself to the disposal of excreta and refuse as carried out 
usually in towns and villages. Enteric fever and allied diseases bear a direct 
relationship to the means adopted for the disposal of excrementitious matters. 
Once a regiment or company becomes infected the latrine is the common focus 
from which the disease is spread, and this infection may occur before the 
disease is recognised. Much has been said and written on the dissemination of 
these diseases by water among the troops in vSouth Africa. Without desiring in 
the least to minimise the absolute necessity that must always exist for an ample 
supply of pure water, I am convinced that it is to the trench latrine pits, to the 
general fouling of the soil, to direct personal infection, and to infected clothing 
and blankets, is to be attributed the spread of these diseases in an Army in the 
Field. Trench latrines are always a source of danger, however well arranged 
for, and in South Africa they were certainly no exception to this rule. To them 
and to personal contact, either with individuals in the early stages of the 
disease, or with infected clothing, I attribute the large numbers of admissions 
to hospital. So subtle is enteric fever in its onset that it may not be recognised 
until long after the enteric bacilli have infected the latrine, and thus an 
individual becomes a source of danger to others. To disinfect, burn, or other- 
wise destroy the bacilli in the excreta from patients in hospitals, affords but 
very partial means of protection in camps. To eliminate with any degree of 
certainty this source of danger all excreta should be thoroughly disinfected. 



34 LANE NOTTER 

The system of trench latrines is the one universally adopted in all Armies. 
With an Army in the Field, when the site has to be for only a few days, no 
other system appears to be practicable. In standing camps, it will be necessary 
to employ men (natives) under a proper organisation, and arrange for the 
removal of all excreta in sanitary carts for cremation or other disposal outside 
the camp. There is no more important question than this in the hygiene of 
camps, and if our object is to prevent as far as possible these diseases we must 
be prepared to accept the principle that only a proper conservancy, with the 
complete removal and destruction of filth can effect fewer deaths and less 
sickness in an Army in the Field. 

In the Military Hospitals in South Africa two methods were adopted for 
the disposal of all excreta : one by boiling — the solid and liquid excreta, after 
disinfection in the ward, were boiled in ordinary pot boilers; — this method is 
unsightly and rather offensive; the ladeling out of the boiled faeces is a dirty 
and somewhat disgusting process and is open to objection. If this plan is 
adopted where a system of sewerage exists, and where the boiled faeces could be 
passed directly into the sewers, this objection would not hold good. It would, 
however, be necessary to adopt some means for cooling the liquid in the 
container, otherwise this liquid passed into the drains, hot, may crack them or 
their expansion would displace the joints. A far more cleanly method is to 
mix the faeces with ashes or other dry material and burn them together in a 
small cremator. This plan was adopted most successfully in many of the large 
hospitals. 

The nature of the soil in the Transvaal and Orange River Colony added to 
the difficulties of camp sanitation. The soil itself, which in most parts is 
composed chiefly of alluvial clay, is deficient in the salts of lime and potash — 
the alkaline basis; — there is little limestone in the Transvaal or Orange River 
Colony. This kind of soil does not lend itself to the disintegration and breaking 
up of organic matter. Dead animals and organic filth remain for months with- 
out undergoing the natural process of decay, and lie as putrifying masses, 
apparently slowly melting away. In the same way bodies buried in cemeteries 
emit foul emanations from the ground, so much so that lime had to be freely 
used at the time of burial to prevent a nuisance. Those plants which are 
indicative of nitrogen ferments in the soil, such as the vetches and the 
Legumiriosce generally are conspicuous by their absence. There appears to be 
an absence of nitrifying organisms in the soil, and this is further shown by 
the small amount of nitrogen acids found in water. 

All these conditions indicate that the soil itself, uncultivated and not sub- 
mitted to the action of growing plants, is not in a condition to receive and 
render harmless organic filth deposited on circumscribed and small areas, densely 
populated and without any sewerage system available. This soil, too, has little 
or no absortive power. 

Density of Population. The density of population in camps is an 
important factor in furthering the spread of any infective disease. On active 
service an ordinary bell tent is assumed to afford sufficient protection for 15 men. 
It is made of " duck," provided with six-inch eaves to carry off water clear of 
the walls, and has these small ventilators covered with bibs. The tent weighs 



TYPHOID FEVER 



35 



41|lbs., has an internal capacity of 623 cubic feet, and its diameter is 13ft.; 
the height of the walls is 2ft. 2ins., and the pole is 9ft. 9ins. long. Ventilation 
is most imperfect, as the holes are so small that the movement of air is almost 
imperceptible. There is little ventilation through the canvas, and none at all 
when it is wet with dew. Some of the newer pattern tents have a few openings 
for ventilation made in the canvas near the pole, and this is an improvement on 
the older form. 

There are 3,097,600 square yards in a square mile, and assuming, as was 
most frequently the case in South Africa, that there were 15 men in each bell 
tent, the following table gives the surface area per tent for different densities 
of population per square mile. 



Strength 
Infantry battalion, full size... 1,011 

„ „ minimum.. 1,011 

Cavalry regiment, full size ... 630 

,, „ minimum.. 630 

Battery, E.A 154 

Field Company, R. E 182 , 

Bearer Company 66 

Field Hospital 145 



Square 
Yards 

21,600 

7,800 

34,000 

15,000 

11,200 

7,500 

8,400 

11,200 



Acres 
4-46 
1-61 
702 
309 
2-31 
1-54 
1-73 
2-31 



Men 

per Acre 

. 226 . 

. 628 . 

. 89 . 

. 204 . 

. 67 . 

. 118 . 

. 38 . 

. 62 . 



Men per 
Sq. Mile 

144,640 
401,920 
56,960 
130,560 
42,880 
75,520 
24,320 
39,680 



This table shows that a cavalry regiment encamped upon its maximum area 
is nearly as densely populated as Liverpool, which has a population density of 
97 persons to an acre ; and when occupying its minimum space would have as 
dense a population as Whitechapel, which is the most crowded part of London. 
It is therefore not difficult to understand the danger of infection from close 
proximity of infected to healthy men in tents, particularly in the early stages 
of the disease and before they realise that they are sick. The enteric bacilli 
are able to exist in cloth and woollen clothing for upwards of two months, and 
in cloth fouled by liquid faeces the micro-organism is recoverable in sixteen 
days. 

The evidence that enteric fever is communicable from 
person to person has been slowly but surely accumulating, and there are few 
now who would deny this source of dissemination. Many instances of this occurred 
in South Africa, and the tendency too often Avas, to neglect the personal factor of 
direct infection and to seek a possible cause outside the camp itself. This factor of 
personal infection was very clearly demonstrated at Green Point, Capetown. This 
camp had an excellent supply of water from theCapetown Water Works,and no fault 
could be found with the conservancy arrangements. Over and over again out- 
breaks of enteric fever occurred, and these in every instance followed on the 
arrival of an infected party of convalescents sent down from up country, and who 
were detained on arrival at Green Point until they could be disposed of. There 
can be no doubt that the infection was conveyed by these convalescents in their 
clothing or by personal contact. Confirmatory of this is the later evidence 
investigated and reported by Dr. Collingridge of an epidemic of enteric fever on 
the " Corwall " Training Ship. In the course of his injury he was able to trace 
the source of infection to condemned army blankets returned from South 



36 LANE NOTTER 

Africa. These blankets were found to be in a filthy condition and fouled with 
blood and excrement. They were submitted to Dr. Klein, who reported that 
they were stained with faecal matter and urine, and contained innumerable 
typhoid bacilli. 

It may be of interest in this connection to quote a paragraph from the 
report of the Commissioners appointed to enquire into the origin and spread of 
enteric fever in the military encampments in the United States during the 
Spanish War of 1898: — 

" Out of 1,608 cases most thoroughly investigated more than half were due 
to direct and indirect infection in and from tents. Of all the conclusions this 
last is the most momentous and most instructive. The evidence indicates that 
when once the infection has been established in a camp, it will continue to 
spread in spite of shifting camp, provision of pure water supply, and other 
sanitary improvements, unless the infected men be .separated and the con- 
taminated clothing, bedding, and tentage thoroughly disinfected. Practically 
the evidence and the conclusions imply that direct infection from man to man 
in the tents, and indirect infection through the contaminated clothing, bedding, 
tentage and soil of the tent were the most important factors in the spread of 
the disease throughout the United States camps, and that this mode of infection 
is probably common and persistent in camp life." 

Water Supply in Relation to these Diseases. The supply of 
pure, potable water, is, especially in South Africa, a very difl&cult problem. In 
Pretoria and one or two other towns good water is available, but in the large 
majority of towns the supply is taken from rivers, which are open to pollution 
on every side. Troops in camps outside towns and on the line of march had to 
depend on surface supplies from shallow wells, from spruits or streams, or from 
ponds. It was impossible to connect cases of enteric fever with the use of such 
water supply. As a rule the men on the march were healthy and did not suffer. 
Very many men and convalescents from enteric fever and dysentery, whom I 
' closely interrogated, denied drinking any water except in the form of tea or 
coffee. One medical ofl&cer, suffering from a severe attack of enteric fever was 
so impressed with the idea that water was the most probable cause, that he saw 
all the water he used boiled, and had never taken any to drink except in the 
form of tea; he could not understand, with all the precautions he had taken, 
how he had contracted the disease. 

It was remarkable how few men in the blockhouses were attacked with 
enteric fever; the reason for this was, I believe, that few men (10 — 12) occupied 
them. They were removed from the danger of contracting the disease either 
by personal contact or from clothing, etc., and they were, comparatively 
speaking, free from flies, which found little refuse around these structures on 
which to congregate. As a rule all isolated places and posts escaped. This 
fact clearly shows that density of population is a very important factor in the 
dissemination of these diseases. 

Very stringest orders were issued to all units that water used for drinking 
purposes should be boiled before distribution, and for this purpose Sawyer's 
boilers were provided and extra fuel allowance issued. Berkefeldt filters were 
also provided. 



TYPHOID FEVER 37 

From a very careful consideration of the wliole question, and by tracing as 
far as possible, the admissions to hospital from the various camps and stations, 
1 am forced to the conclusion that water played a comparatively insignificant 
part in the diffusion and spread of enteric fever in the Army in South Africa, 
and that other causes operated to a far greater extent. As a further proof of 
this, figures, as far as I have been able to analyse them, show that officers 
suffered in much the same proportion as the rank and file. The returns have 
not yet been classified, so that no positive statement can yet be made. 

Of course there were exceptions to these facts. In such towns as Bloem- 
fontein, Kronstad, Standerton, and many others, when the supply was taken 
from rivers and was largely polluted, enteric fever has been endemic for a long 
time. 

In a country as large as that in which the army operated in South Africa, 
it is necessary to summarise our experiences on the whole of the facts under 
review, and not to emphasise individual cases, dogmatise on them, and make 
them applicable to the entire army scattered over half a continent. 

Great difficulties were experienced in carrying out the regulations with 
regard to the boiling of water by the columns on the line of march. In many 
districts traversed there was no wood or other fuel, not even bushwood, and 
the difficulties of transport and the necessity for speedy movements was such 
as frequently to place men on short rations. Those men did not suffer. They 
were healthy while on the march, but sickness appeared when they came into 
standing camps in towns for the purpose of refitting. 

Our experience in South Africa was that infected water played a very 
subordinate part in the dissemination of enteric fever in the army there. There 
certainly were local supplies that became specifically infected, but infected 
water was not the dominant factor in the causation of this disease. And this 
is practically the experience of the United States' officers in the Spanish War. 
The Commission reported that : " Infected water was not an important factor 
in the spread of typhoid fever in the national encampments in 1898." 

It must, I think, be admitted that notwithstanding the greatest care for the 
safeguarding of the generally accepted sources of these diseases, it is practically 
impossible to completely prevent their occurrence in any army, hastily 
mobilised, operating in a country in which water is scarce, and whose ranks are 
largely filled with young men at an age notoriously liable to be affected by 
diseases of this nature. Much, however, may be done to lessen both the 
incidence and mortality from these diseases by suitable and adequate sanitary 
measures. 



Feeding in Relation to the Health of 

the Young. 



JAMES NIVEN, M.A., M.B., 

Medical Officer of Health, Lecturer in Public Health Administration, Manchester. 



Feeding in Relation to the Health of the Young. 



Introduction. 

In the present lecture I propose to consider the feeding of children in the 
poorest class of the community, treating the subject chiefly from the public 
health point of view. Experience shows that where the earnings of a family 
exceed 35s. a week, unless there be some special source of drain, such as illness 
or excessive drinking, children generally receive sufficient food and a sufficient 
variety. 

There is a widespread belief that children are degenerating, owing to the 
increasing aggregation in towns, and to loss of that simplicity in living which 
was practised in former days. There are unfortunately no measurements of 
height and weight at different ages on a scale to give us any exact information 
on the subject, and we are compelled, therefore, to fall back on the statistics 
of mortality. 

Works consulted (see last page). 

I. PHYSICAL CONDITION AS INDICATED BY DEATH-RATES, 

FROM 1838 TO 1901. 

Statistics of IViortality from 1838 to 1901. In the Annual 
Reports of the Registrar-General we find tables showing the death-rates for 
decennial and also for quinquennial periods since the year 1840, at groups 
of ages, and we are thus able at a glance to see the history as regards mortality 
of each period of life. 

TABLE I. 

England and Wales. Annual Death-rates at Twelve Age-periods and 
General Death-rates corrected for Age-Constitution in Groups of Years 
1838-1901. Males and Females. 

Males. Deaths to 1,000 living. 



Period 
1838-1901 


All ages. 
21.1 


0- 
68.4 


5— 

7.1 


10— 
4.0 


1.5- 

5.6 


20- 

7.6 


25— 
8.9 


35- 
12.7 


45- 
18.9 


55— 

33.3 


65- 
68.3 


75- 
147.4 


85 & up 
308.6 


1841-50 


22.2 


71.2 


9.2 


5.1 


7.1 


9.5 


9.9 


12.9 


18.2 


31.8 


67.5 


148.3 


312.3 


1851-60 


21.9 


72.7 


8.5 


4.9 


6.7 


8.8 


9.6 


12.5 


18.0 


31.0 


65.5 


146.7 


308.2 


1861-70 


22.3 


73.5 


8.2 


4.5 


6.2 


8.5 


9.9 


13.5 


19.2 


33.1 


67.1 


147.2 


315.0 


1871-80 


21.5 


68.5 


6.7 


3.7 


5.3 


7.4 


9.4 


13.8 


20.1 


34.9 


69.7 


150.8 


327.4 


1881-90 


19.7 


61.6 


5.4 


3.0 


4.3 


5.7 


7.8 


12.4 


19.4 


34.7 


70.4 


146.6 


305.8 


1891-1900 


19.2 


62.7 


4.3 


2.4 


3.8 


5.1 


6.8 


11.5 


19.0 


35.0 


70.4 


146.1 


286.8 


1841-45 


21.3 


68.7 


8.8 


4.8 


6.8 


9.0 


9.4 


12.2 


17.2 


30.3 


65.5 


143.7 


305.1 


1846-50 


23.1 


73.8 


9.5 


5.4 


7.3 


10.0 


10.5 


13.6 


19.2 


33.2 


69.5 


153.0 


319.5 


1851-55 


22.4 


73.9 


8.8 


5.1 


7.0 


9.2 


10.0 


12.9 


18.6 


31.5 


66.6 


150.8 


311.0 



42 



NIVEN 













Males— 1 


Continued. 












Period 


All ages. 


0— 


5— 


10— 


15— 


20— 


25- 


35— 


45— 


55— 


65— 


75— 


85&UP 


1856-60 


21.4 


71.5 


8.3 


4.6 


6.4 


8.4 


9.2 


12.2 


17.4 


30.4 


64.3 


142.6 


305.4 


1861-65 


22.3 


74.0 


8.5 


4.7 


6.4 


8.7 


9.7 


13.2 


18.9 


32.8 


66.3 


145.8 


316.4 


1866-70 


22.2 


72.9 


7.9 


4.3 


6.0 


8.3 


10.1 


13.8 


19.6 


33.5 


67.8 


148.7 


313.6 


1871-75 


22.0 


69.9 


7.1 


4.0 


5.7 


8.1 


10.0 


14.3 


20.3 


34.8 


70.0 


149.5 


323.3 


1876-80 


21.0 


67.0 


6.3 


3.4 


4.9 


6.7 


8.7 


13.4 


19.8 


34.9 


69.4 


152.2 


331.6 


1881-85 


19.7 


61.3 


5.8 


3.2 


4.5 


6.0 


8.2 


12.8 


19.3 


34.2 


68.7 


145.4 


297.8 


1886-90 


19.6 


61.9 


4.9 


2.8 


4.1 


5.5 


7.4 


12.0 


19.4 


35.2 


72.1 


147.9 


313.8 


1891-95 


19.6 


62.9 


4.5 


2.6 


4.0 


5.2 


7.1 


12.0 


19.6 


35.9 


72.5 


149.3 


291.0 


1896-1900 


18.8 


62.4 


4.1 


2.3 


3.6 


4.9 


6.5 


11.1 


18.3 


34.1 


68.3 


142.9 


282.6 










Females. 


Deaths to 1,000 living. 










1838-1901 


19.3 


58.5 


6.9 


4.1 


6.0 


7.1 


8.8 


11.5 


15.4 


28.1 


60.0 


133.3 


281.9 


1841-50 


21.0 


61.1 


8.9 


5.4 


7.9 


9.1 


10.6 


12.9 


16.1 


28.4 


60.9 


135.9 


293.3 


1851-60 


20.6 


63.0 


8.4 


5.1 


7.4 


8.6 


10.0 


12.2 


15.3 


27.1 


58.9 


134.5 


288.9 


1861-70 


20.4 


63.7 


7.8 


4.5 


6.7 


8.0 


9.7 


12.1 


15.6 


27.9 


59.1 


134.9 


285.1 


1871-80 


19.3 


58.4 


6.3 


3.7 


5.5 


6.8 


8.6 


11.6 


15.6 


28.7 


61.0 


135.4 


296.4 


1881-90 


17.6 


52.0 


5.3 


3.1 


4.4 


5.5 


7.4 


10.6 


15.1 


28.5 


60.4 


130.6 


270.8 


1891-1900 


17.0 


52.8 


4.4 


2.6 


3.7 


4.5 


6.1 


9.6 


14.8 


28.5 


60.7 


130.6 


261.4 


1841-45 


20.1 


58.6 


8.6 


5.2 


7.7 


8.6 


9.9 


12.2 


15.1 


27.2 


59.1 


138.8 


288.6 


1846-50 


21.9 


63.7 


9.2 


5.7 


8.1 


9.6 


11.2 


13.7 


17.0 


29.7 


62.8 


140.1 


297.9 


1851-55 


21.0 


63.8 


8.5 


5.3 


7.8 


8.9 


10.3 


12.6 


15.8 


27.8 


59.6 


137.1 


292.0 


1856-60 


20.1 


62.3 


8.3 


4.8 


7.1 


8.2 


9.6 


11.9 


14.8 


26.5 


58.1 


131.9 


285.8 


1861-65 


20.6 


64.1 


8.3 


4.8 


6.9 


8.2 


9.8 


12.1 


15.5 


27.9 


59.1 


133.7 


287.7 


1866-70 


20.3 


63.3 


7.4 


4.3 


6.4 


7.8 


9.6 


12.1 


15.8 


27.9 


59.1 


136.1 


282.4 


1871-75 


19.8 


60.0 


6.6 


4.0 


5.9 


7.4 


9.2 


12.0 


15.9 


28.7 


61.2 


135.3 


293.8 


1876-80 


18.7 


56.8 


5.9 


3.5 


5.0 


6.2 


8.0 


11.2 


15.4 


28.6 


60.8 


135.5 


299.0 


1881-85 


17.8 


51.9 


5.7 


3.3 


4.7 


5.9 


7.9 


11.0 


15.2 


28.1 


59.0 


128.9 


265.4 


1886-90 


17.5 


52.0 


4.9 


2.9 


4.1 


5.2 


6.9 


10.3 


15.0 


28.8 


61.7 


132.3 


276.2 


1891-95 


17.5 


52.8 


4.6 


2.8 


4.0 


4.8 


6.6 


10.2 


15.2 


29.5 


63.1 


134.4 


264.2 


1896-1900 


16.5 


52.7 


4.2 


2.4 


3.3 


4.1 


5.6 


9.1 


14.3 


27.4 


58.4 


126.8 


258.5 



We thus perceive that at all the earlier ages an immense advance has 
occurred, both in males and females, but greater in the case of the latter. 
This is most marked at the ages 5 to 9, 10-14 and 15-19, being less noticeable 
at earlier ages, and gradually diminishing till it ceases at the age group 
35-44 in the case of males. 

No doubt many factors have been at work, such as Sanitary Administration, 
factory legislation, better housing, etc., but if we follow the course of the 
decline we are obliged to conclude that some other general causes must have 
been operative, which have acted over so long a period, and have penetrated 
into counties where Sanitaiy Administration has been comparatively little in 
evidence, and the effects of factory legislation have been but little felt. The 
improvement is particularly observable in the five years 1876-80, and though 
this is coincident with a period of much Sanitary activity, it follows too close 
on this to be ascribed to it. The decline must be ascribed to increasing 
prosperity, to improving wages, and to cheapening food. 



HEALTH OF THE YOUNG 



43 



It is perhaps not without significance, and appears to suggest increased 
physical well-being, that the great drop in the mortality at ages 0-5 takes places 
in the next quinquennium. The same continued improvement is manifest in 
Manchester, and the statistics also show that the children in the Central 
Districts of Manchester had in the last decennium a lower death-rate than the 
children throughout England 60 years ago. This is also visibly evident in 
photographs taken by Mr. Ellwood, of the Public Health Office, of slum children 
fifteen years ago and in October, 1903. I am informed by Mr. Wyatt that 
photographs of school children in the poorest districts taken 20 years ago and 
recently give the same results. 

TABLE 11. 

Death-rates in Age Groups in Manchester. The rates for 1851 to 1890 are 
based on the deaths occurring in the Manchester, Chorlton and Prestwich 
Unions; in 1891-1900 they are for the City of Manchester. 



Years All ages. Under 5. 



5— 10— 15— 20— 25— 



1851-1860 


28.59 


105.95 


11.61 


5.18 


7.72 


8.75 


11.28 


16.62 


26.46 


44.82 


86.60 


172.30 344.75 


1861-1870 


29.44 


100.87 


11.48 


5.44 


7.61 


9.21 


12.03 


18.31 


27.80 


49.82 


94.64 


181.48 294.05 


1871-1880 


27.06 


86.90 


8.97 


4.45 


6.22 


8.42 


11.70 


18.22 


28.29 


49.98 


95.64 


180.51 


1881-1890 


24.15 


77.52 


7.50 


3.67 


5.12 


6.47 


10.19 


17.33 


27.30 


49.39 


93.33 


176.39 


1891-1900 


23.27 


82.11 


5.62 


2.93 


4.39 


5.33 


8.36 


16.40 


26.87 


49.27 


94.96 


181.06 306.36 



TABLE III. 

Death-rates in the Manchester Township in Age Groups, 



Years. 


All ages. 


Under 5 years. 


5- 


*1851-1860 


.. 31.48 


.. 117.24 ... 


9.22 


*1861-1870 


.. 32.80 


.. 111.88 ... 


9.63 


*1871-1873 


.. 31.46 


.. 103.82 ... 


7.81 


1874-1880 


.. 32.16 


.. 103.52 ... 


7.84 


1881-1890 


.. 31.73 


.. 96.69 ... 


6.32 


•1891-1900 


.. 30.10 


.. 104.33 ... 


5.25 



15- 

8.98 
9.44 
9.01 
8.72 
7.81 
5.66 



25— 

15.24 
16.96 
17.07 
18.59 
19.66 
16.67 



45— 

36.08 


65- 

.. 116.16 


39.99 


.. 122.48 


39.93 


.. 113.73 


44.93 


.. 126.34 


49.43 


.. 123.18 


46.48 


.. 142.47 



* Up to the end of 1873 the Prestwich Union formed a part of the Manchester Union. 
These figures are, therefore, for the two Unions combined. 

Influence of Prosperity and Abundance of Food. The 

relative lowering of the death-rate of women and children to those of men is in 
inself a proof of growing prosperity. It might be supposed that the view that 
increasing prosperity has determined largely the lowered death-rate amongst 
the young implies that the most marked advance should have been noted in the 
years 1870-74, the year of overflowing trade. But on consulting Mulhall's 
Dictionary of Statistics we find that in those years prices, and particularly the 
prices of articles of food, sustained an increase, so that while improved wages 
affected only a part of the people, another part suffered from the increased prices. 
How great is the gulf between families who have only enough to get 
sufficient food, and those in which food is deficient can be seen any day by 



44 NIVEN 

visiting poor households, examining the children, and enquiring into the 
circumstances of health of members of the family. There is not a shadow of 
doubt that many children annually perish from what is virtually starvation, 
and equally no doubt that the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 
the Police, Health Visitors, District Nurses, the Boys' Refuge, Strangeways, 
and many other agencies, in addition to the Administrators of the Poor Law, 
partly by the strong hand, and partly by kindly aid, do much more now than 
formerly to avert this result. It suffices to see the transformation effected by 
Industrial Schools in the wretched children brought under their care, to realise 
what a difference to the death-rate, and to well being generally, the difference 
in diet produces, aided, it is true, by other means. And that it is diet chiefly 
anyone may convince himself by an examination of children in poor homes, 
some sufficiently and others insufficiently fed. 

It is, therefore, easy to understand how any difference in the wages earned 
by the poorest class, or in the price of food, or in the capacity of wages to obtain 
food, must be reflected in the death-rate. We may assume that the death-rate 
is a measure of physical condition generally, though, doubtless, the improve- 
ment in the former is greater than in the latter. 

Correspondence between Poverty and Death-rate. The 

correspondence between poverty and death-rate is well seen if we compare 
the mean death-rates at different groups of ages for the years 1891-1900 in the 
Manchester Township, South Manchester and North Manchester.* 

TABLE IV. 

Average Annual Death-rates for the years 1891-1900 in the City of 

Manchester and its three Main Divisions, in Age Groups and from certain 
Diseases. 

All Causes. 

Division. All ages. 0-5 5-15 15-25 25-45 45-65 65 and up. 

Manchester Township ... 30.05 ... 104.72 ... 5.26 ... 5.68 ... 16.69 ... 45.88 ... 127.89 

Northern 18.71 ... 66.24 ... 3.80 ... 4.37 ... 8.74 ... 27.32 ... 101.22 

Southern 21.92 ... 78.46 ... 4.03 ... 4.67 ... 10.65 ... 32.23 ... 112.45 

City 23.27 ... 82.19 ... 4.30 ... 4.86 ... 11.77 ... 34.94 ... 113.87 

Measles. 

Division. All ages. 0-5 5-15 15-25 25-45 45-65 65 and up. 

Township 1.11 ... 8.75 ... 0.22 ... 0.01 ... 0.00 ... — ... — 

Northern 0.65 ... 4.80 ... 0.16 ... 0.00 ... 0.00 ... — ... — 

Southern 0.63 ... 5.09 ... 0.15 ... — ... 0.00 ... — ... — 

City 0.77 ... 6.01 ... 0.17 ... 0.00 ... 0.00 ... - ... — 

Whooping Cough. 

Township 0.74 ... 5.84 ... 0.15 ... — ... — ... — ... _ 

Northern 0.45 ... 3.40 ... 0.06 ... — ... — ... — ... 0.03 

Southern 0.58 ... 4.74 ... 0.10 ... — ... — ... — ... 

City 0.59 ... 4.66 ... 0.11 ... — ... — ... — ... 0.01 



See a paper on this subject by Alderman McDougall, Brit. Med. Journ. 







HEALTH 


OF THE YOUNG 




45 










Phthisis 










Township . . . 


... 3.21 


... 0.47 




0.53 . 


. 1.84 ... 


5.68 .. 


. 6.22 


... 3.85 


Northern ... 


... 1.29 


... 0.23 




0.26 . 


1.40 ... 


2.21 . 


. 1.99 


... 0.76 


Southern 


... 1.87 


... 0.47 




0.35 . 


. 1.54 ... 


3.12 . 


. 3.17 


... 1.41 


City 


... 2.08 


... 0.40 




0.38 . 


. 1.58 ... 


3.57 . 


. 3.75 


... 1.91 








Nervotjs Diseases. 








Township ... 


... 1.91 


... 8.84 




0.45 . 


. 0.23 ... 


0.81 . 


. 2.15 


... 5.15 


Northern 


... 1.32 


... 5.47 




0.37 . 


.. 0.22 ... 


0.52 . 


. 1.77 


... 4.99 


Southern 


... 1.42 


... 6.49 




0.33 


. 0.21 ... 


0.58 . 


. 1.42 


... 5.85 


City 


... 1.52 


... 6.85 




0.37 . 


. 0.22 ... 


0.63 . 


. 1.71 


... 5.44 






Heart 


AND 


Blood-vessel Diseases. 








Division. 


All ages. 


0-5 




5-15 


15-25 


25-45 


45-65 


65 and up. 


Township . . . 


... 3.06 


... 0.28 




0.40 . 


. 0.57 ... 


2.13 . 


. 9.82 


... 28.35 


Northern 


... 2.08 


... 0.32 




0.24 . 


. 0.45 ... 


1.16 . 


. 6.85 


... 27.19 


Southern 


... 2.61 


... 0.32 




0.29 . 


. 0.44 ... 


1.46 . 


. 8.06 


... 30.61 


City 


... 2.59 


... 0.31 




0.30 . 


.. 0.48 ... 


1.56 . 


. 8.27 


... 29.15 










Pneumonia. 








Township ... 


... 3.52 


... 12.70 




0.75 . 


. 0.79 ... 


2.22 . 


. 5.21 


... 9.28 


Northern . . . 


... 2.00 


... 8.05 




0.44 . 


. 0.46 ... 


1.10 . 


. 2.81 


... 4.59 


Southern 


... 2.23 


... 8.32 




0.37 . 


. 0.55 ... 


1.29 . 


. 3.33 


... 7.48 


City ... ... 


... 2.52 


... 9.43 




0.49 . 


. 0.59 ... 


1.49 . 


. 3.74 


... 7.25 




All Eespiratory 


Diseases 


EXCEPT Pneumonia. 






Township . . . 


... 3.81 


... 10.52 




0.31 . 


. 0.17 ... 


1.04 -. 


. 8.35 


... 33.48 


Northern . . . 


... 2.18 


... 7.04 




0.17 . 


. 0.07 ... 


0.51 . 


. 4.33 


... 21.19 


Southern 


... 2.60 


... 8.35 




0.20 . 


. 0.13 ... 


0.58 . 


. 4.90 


... 24.58 


City 


... 2.82 


... 8.57 




0.22 . 


0.13 ... 


0.68 . 


. 5.75 


... 26.17 



Average Annual Death-rates for 1891-1900 amongst persons dying at home, 
in Workhouses and in Hospitals for the City and its three Main Divisions. 





Home 
death-rate. 


Township ... . 
Northern ... . 


. ... 21.45 

. ... 16.64 


Southern 


. ... 18.26 


City 


. ... 18.69 



Death-rate in Death-rate in otlier 
Union Hospitals. Institutions. 

6.09 2.51 

0.81 1.26 

2.36 1.30 

2.96 1.62 



Total 
•leatli-rate. 

30.05 

18.71 

21.92 

23.27 



The Institution death-rate in the Manchester Township is 86 per 1,000, in 
the Southern Division 3*7 per 1,000, and in the Northern 21 per 1,000. 
Corresponding differences show themselves in the death-rates at each age group. 
Special attention may be directed to the correspondence in the death-rates from 
Measles and Whooping Cough at early ages, with the figures showing death- 
rates at all ages occurring in the Unions. There is every reason to believe that 
these diseases are as prevalent in one district as in another, and that the differ- 
ences in mortality are due to the differences in nutrition. The same difference 



46 NIVEN 

is observed in Scarlet Fever, and Dr. Gordon has informed me that he has 
observed that the number of deaths per 1,000 cases is higher in the poorer 
districts owing to the more defective nutrition of the children attacked. 

The statistics for the Central Districts of Manchester show, what indeed 
may easily be seen by direct observation, that the problem of improving the 
nutrition of the children in the poor districts is still with us. But even in 
this area, which relatively to the total population is becoming poorer and 
poorer, there has been immense improvement. In 1861-70 the death-rate at 
ages five to fourteen was 9'63. In 1891-1900 it was 5'25. At the former period 
at ages fifteen to twenty-four, it was 944, at the latter 566. There is, 
therefore, every encouragement to endeavour. 



II. THE FEEDING OF ADULTS AND CHILDREN. 

Dietary of a Man doings moderate Labour. In considering 
the diet possible for children in the poorest families it will be necessary to take 
the dietary of a man doing moderate labour and to subdivide it among the 
children. This is the more permissible as I find through the enquiries of the 
health visitors that, in general, the labourer shares with his family. In many 
instances, it is true, he gets what is believed to be a more nourishing meal. 
In any case we shall not be overstating what the children get or what they 
can have, and there is no other way possible. This is the method used by Mr. 
Rowntree in his book on poverty by which I was possibly unconsciously directed 
to it, but I do not see how else one could proceed. 

Foods are substances capable, when eaten, of producing or repairing tissue, 
and generating Keat and work. They are resolved by chemical analysis into 
proteids, fats, carbo-hydrates, salts and water. Of these the proteids alone 
are available for the building up and repair of living cells, while the salts are 
also necessary to life. These include calcium, iron, phosphorus, sodium and 
potassium, the first three being in organic combinations. They are present in 
sufficient amount in all ordinary diets. Proteids, fats, and carbo-hydrates are 
all available as sources of energy, though, on account of the excess of nitro- 
genous waste produced as well as on the score of expense, proteids are not 
possible as the sole source of energy. 

For the maintenance of a high standard of health both fats and carbo- 
hydrates are necessary, though life can be sustained with either alone. There 
is, however, no fixed proportion, and convenience and individual tastes largely 
determine the proportions in which they are taken. The amounts of these 
constituents of food required vary under different conditions, including sex, 
age, weight, weather and conditions of work. 

Inasmuch as they are burned up in the system to produce energy, the 
amounts must be increased with increased work and production of heat, while 
with increased work tissue waste also increases, so that the demand for an 
increase of proteid coincides with the demand for more fat and carbo-hydrate. 

The daily amount required for any given condition, such as a man of 
average weight (eleven stone) doing a moderate day's work, may be determined 
by measuring! Jlihe total carbonic acid and urea which he excretes in a day on a 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 47 

freely chosen diet, and then determining the quantities of proteid necessary to 
yiekl the amount of nitrogen present as urea and the quantities of fat and 
carbo-hydrates needed to make up the carbon excreted. In this way Playfaii 
arrived at the following diet : — 

Proteid. Fat. Carbohydrate. 

119 51 5131 

While Atwater, as the result of many observation, gives : — 

Proteid. Fat. Carbohydrate. 
125 125 450 

A Calorie being the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 
1 kilogramme (litre) of water 1°C from 0° to 1°C, the first diet yields 3,140 
Calories and the latter 3,520. 

One gramme of proteid gives 4"1 Calories. 

One gramme of fat gives 93 „ 

One gramme of carbohydrates gives 4'1 „ 

Fat being reckoned as 2'4, Playfair's diet gives for proteid a ratio of 1 to 63 
of other constituents, Atwater's of 1 to 6. In the discussion of diets I propose 
to use Atwater's dietary. It approximates much more nearly to that freely 
chosen by persons of the requisite means, and we may believe, especially in 
dealing with Manchester families, that we are thus not under-estimating the 
amount of food required. It will be seen presently that fat can now be obtained 
as cheaply as carbohydrate. 

The amount of food required by the various members of the family is given 
by Atwater in terms of the above as follows : — 

A child under 2 requires 03 the food of a man doing moderate work. 

0-4 
0-5 
0-6 
OT 
0-8 

A woman may be taken to consume 09 except when with child, in which case 
her diet should be increased. This is also true of lactation. 

Current Prices of Ordinary Foods. We now require a statement 

of the ordinary foods, with their current prices, so that we may construct 
dietaries on the scale given above, and square the price with the means of the 
family. 

The following table, collected from Hutchinson's book, gives the necessary 
materials for a number of typical diets, and the lowest prices are attached, at 
which wholesome articles can be obtained at present in Manchester : — 





„ of 3 to 5 




of 6 to 9 




of 10 to 13 


A 


girl of 14 to 16 


A 


boy of 14 to 16 



48 



NIVEN 



100 grammes of 
Beef, medium fat ... 
Mutton, lean 

,, medium fat 

,, very fat ... 
Pork, medium fat ... 
,, very fat 

Bacon 

Liver, ox 

Heart, ox 

Tripe 

Herring, cooked 
Cow's milk, average 

Butter 

Margarine 

Cheese, American ... 

,, Cheshire 

Wheat meal 

Fine flour 

Oatmeal 

Barley 

Barley meal 

Pearl barley 

Fine corn meal 
Rice, husk removed 

Bread, white 

Whole meal 

Hovis 

Macaroni 

Semolina 

Dried peas 

Lentils 

Haricot beans 

Potatoes 

Carrots 

Turnips 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Apples 

Currants 

Raisins 

Best sugar 

Treacle 

Honey 

Lard 

Suet 

Dripping 

Eggs 



TABLE Y. 












Composition of Foods. 












Prices. 
6d. per lb. 


Water. 
76.5 


Proteid. 
20.0 


Fat. 
1.5 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Salts. 
1.3 


5d. per lb. 


75.0 


18.0 


5.7 


— 


1.3 


5d. per lb. 


65.2 


14.5 


19.5 


— 


0.08 


5d. per lb. 


46.0 


10.2 


43.2 


— 


0.06 


6d. to 8d. per lb. 


60.9 


12.3 


26.2 


— 


0.05 


— • 


44.4 


9.7 


45.5 


— 


0.04 


6d. per lb. 


22.3 


8.1 


65.2 


— 


4.4 


4d. per lb. 


71.2 


20.7 


4.5 


1.5 


1.6 


3^d. per lb. 


62.6 


16.0 


20.4 


— 


1.0 


3d. per lb. 


74.6 


16.4 


8.5 


— 


0.5 


2 for ld. = ilb. 


52.99 


23.67 


8.72 


— 


— 


3^d. quart 


87.4 


3.5 


3.5 


5.0 


0.6 


Is. per lb. 


15.0 


2.0 


82.0 


— 


— 


8d.,6d.,4d. perlb. 


9.3 


1.3 


82.7 


— 


6.7 


6d. per lb. 


26.9 


32.9 


31.0 


— 


4.5 


6d.— 9^d. 


33.2 


29.4 


30.7 


— 


4.3 


Id. per lb. 


12.1 


12.9 


1.9 


70.3 


1.2 


Ud. to lid. lb. 


13.0 


9.5 


0.8 


75.3 


0.7 


2d. per lb. 


7.2 


14.2 


7.3 


65.9 


1.9 


2d. per lb. 


12.3 


10.1 


1.9 


69.5 


2.4 


2d. per lb. 


11.9 


10.0 


2.2 


71.5 


2.6 


3d. per lb. 


12.7 


7.4 


1.2 


76.7 


1.2 


— 


12.5 


6.8 


1.3 


78.0 


0.6 


3d. per lb. 


12.0 


7.2 


2.0 


76.8 


1.0 


2d. = 2 lb. 


40.0 


6.5 


— 


52.5 


1.0 


,, ,, 


45.0 


6.3 


— 


47.5 


1.2 


3id. = 21b. 


45.0 


9.9 


— 


42.3 


1.2 


(Flour 2d.) 
4d. = llb. 


12.0 


10.89 


0.65 


75.70 


0.50 


3d. = lib. 


10.6 


11.96 


0.60 


75.79 


0.65 


l^d. split peas; 2d. 
2id. marrowfat. 


& 
13.0 


21.0 


1.8 


55.4 


2.6 


2d. per lb. 


11.7 


23.2 


2.0 


58.4 


2.7 


2d. per lb. 


11.7 


23.0 


2.3 


55.8 


3.2 


Is. 2d. per score, 
best 


76.7 


1.2 


0.1 


19.1 


0.9 


2 lb. for Id. 


85.7 


0.5 


0.3 


10.1 


0.9 


2 lb. for Id. (given 
as 5 lb. for 2d.) 90.3 


0.9 


0.06 


5.0 


0.8 


Id. to 2d. for 1 


89.6 


1.8 


0.4 


5.8 


1.3 


3d. 


90.7 


2.2 


0.4 


4.7 


1.2 


2d. per lb. 

(very dear) 
5d. per lb. 


82.5 
27.9 


0.4 
1.2 


0.5 
3.0 


12.5 
64.0 


Acids. 
1.0 
2.2 


6d. per lb. 


14.0 


2.5 


4.7 


74.7 


4.1 


1 lb. for 2d. 


2.9 


— 


— 


92.0 


2.56 


>) >) 


23.4 


— 


— 


69.7 


— 


1 lb. 6d. 


19.98 


— 


— 


73.95 


— 


4d. to 6d. 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


6d. to 8d. 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


4d. to 6d. 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


One = 2ozs. for Id. 


65.5 


13.1 


9.3 


— 


— 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 49 

In applying this dietary to childhood we have first to consider the question 
of milk. As a source of proteid milk is expensive, and children over 3 years 
of age get very little of it in the poorest class. Dr. Ashby says it should 
be used all through childhood. It is especially rich in lime and phosphates, 
and when it can be got fresh is a valuable addition to the diet. Eggs are also 
a valuable food, being rich in iron, lime and phosphorus, but are still more 
expensive as a source of proteid. 

An efPort should be made to supply milk (which should, as usually supplied, 
always be boiled, cooled and kept covered over in a cool place) up to the age of six, 
but probably amongst the very poor up to that age it will not he possible. It should 
be given without fail up to the end of the third year. 

Fat is on the whole a more expensive article of diet than carbohydrate. 
According to Ashby, it is an indispensable one to children, as a deficiency of 
fat in the diet is liable to produce scurvyrickets. Children, however, often 
have a great objection to crude fat, though it is always possible to get them to 
take it in combination, as in pastry, pasty, pudding, on bread or toast, or in 
combination with potatoes, pulses, and cabbage, and it may usefully be given 
as toffee or chocolate, where the means will allow. 

In the case of meat not too fat, it may be given as mince, in which form 
it may be economically cooked as a pasty. 

Children do not always find peas or beans easy to digest, and care must 
therefore be expended in cooking these. Even the poorest Lancashire people 
prefer marrowfat peas to split peas, and very possibly, when soaked for 12 hours, 
and then cooked, they are easier to digest, as they are certainly more appetising. 

To children, quite as much as to adults, variety of foods is essential, perhaps 
more so. By examination of the faeces it is ascertained that a certain proportion 
of the proteid, fat and carbohydrate is not absorbed, and that this proportion is 
different for different foods. The proteid in pulses is imperfectly absorbed, 
about 20 per cent, escaping ; with brown bread the proportion may be 20 per cent, 
or more, while with potatoes it amounts to 30 per cent. But this proportion 
is reduced when these articles form paxt of a mixed diet. Fats and carbo- 
hydrates are much more completely absorbed. 

Care of Teeth and Intestine. Children require training in masti- 
cating their foods, and parents need to pay special attention to this matter. 
Further, the importance of attending to their teeth should be recognised, and 
arrangements should be made at Hospitals where children are treated, for the 
purpose. It is of the greatest consequence that parents should be taught to 
see that the bowels are regularly moved, as neglect in this particular leads to 
serious depression in health. This is of especial importance where the diet is 
but little varied, and is abundant. 

Reg^ularity of Meals, Variations in the Diet. The meals should 

be taken at regular times, though probably no great harm is done by a piece of 
bread and butter being given between meals, provided the child takes his 
regular meals well. Not only should the food be varied as much as the means 
will allow, but by variety in preparation of the same article of food, the distaste 
which sameness produces may be avoided. Thus herring may be steamed, 
fried, stewed in vinegar or baked in a pasty or grilled. Flour may be used as 



50 



NIVEN 



bread, caJse, pudding, pasty, pastry, gravy. Oatmeal may be used as cake, 
porridge, pudding, or fried with fat, onions, pepper, and salt. Peas or beans 
may be steamed, made into soup, or taken as a stew. 

In the preparation of a cheap dietary a knowledge of cooking, therefore, 
plays a primary part, and it should be a necessary part of a girl's education, 
as well as of a boy's, if he so wishes. These elementary, but important, points, 
girls should be taught as pait of their training in domestic economy and 
hygiene. 

Diet appropriate to difFerent ag^es. It is necessary that the 

proteid consumed should be varied at different periods of growth in accordance 
with the requirements of proteid for growth. It is probable that this would, in 
many instances, be the most economical mode of arranging the diet, but 
practically it is not possible, and the simpler way is to make an increased 
allowance for proteid, fat and carbohydrate, which is no doubt what Atwater 
has done in his scale. It may, however, be interesting to see what would be 
the maximum change produced in the diet at different periods of growth. In 
Dr. Clement Duke's book on school diet is given a table of average height ajid 
weight of boys and girls of English-speaking races, calculated from the total 
of British and American Statistics. 

TABLE VI. 

Showing the average and mean height and weight, and the annual rate of 
increase, of 7,709 boys and men, between the ages of 10 and 30 years, of the 
most favoured classes of the English population — public school boys, naval and 
military cadets, medical and university students. (Dukes on School Diet). 



Height without shoes. 



Weight, including clothes of 9 lbs. 



Age last 
birthday 


Average 
inches 


Growth 
inches 


Mean 
inches 


Orowth 
inches 


Average 
lbs. 


Growth 
lbs. 


Mean 
lbs. 


Growth 
lbs. 


10 .. 


. 53.40 .. 


— . 


. 53.00 . 


— .. 


67.4 .. 


— .. 


. 67.0 


— 


11 .. 


. 54.91 .. 


1.51 . 


. 54.50 . 


. 1.50 .. 


72.9 .. 


5.50 .. 


. 73.0 


.. 6.0 


12 .. 


. 56.97 .. 


2.06 . 


. 56.50 . 


. 2.00 .. 


80.3 .. 


7.39 .. 


. 80.0 


.. 7.0 


13 .. 


. 58.79 .. 


1.82 . 


. 58.50 . 


. 2.00 .. 


88.6 .. 


8.27 .. 


. 88.0 


.. 8.0 


14 .. 


. 61.11 .. 


2.32 . 


. 61.00 . 


. 2.50 .. 


99.2 .. 


10.61 .. 


. 98.0 


.. 10.0 


15 .. 


. 63.47 .. 


2.36 . 


. 63.50 . 


. 2.50 .. 


110.4 .. 


11.21 .. 


. 110.0 


.. 12.0 


16 .. 


66.40 .. 


2.93 . 


. 66.50 . 


. 3.00 .. 


128.3 .. 


17.92 .. 


. 126.0 


.. 16.0 


17 .. 


67.84 .. 


1.46 . 


. 68.00 . 


. 1.50 .. 


141.0 .. 


12.69 .. 


. 140.0 


.. 14.0 


18 .. 


. 68.29 .. 


0.43 . 


. 68.50 . 


. 0.50 .. 


146.0 .. 


4.97 .. 


. 146.0 


.. 6.0 


19 .. 


. 68.72 .. 


0.43 . 


. 68.75 . 


. 0.25 .. 


148.3 .. 


2.20 .. 


. 148.0 


.. 2.0 


20 .. 


. 69.13 .. 


0.41 . 


. 69.00 . 


. 0.25 .. 


152.0 .. 


3.87 .. 


. 150.0 


.. 2.0 


21 .. 


. 69.16 .. 


0.03 . 


— . 


— .. 


152.3 .. 


0.27 .. 


. 152.0 


.. 2.0 


22 .. 


. 68.93 .. 


— . 


— . 


— .. 


154.7 .. 


2.44 .. 


— 





23 .. 


. 68.53 .. 


— . 


— . 


. — .. 


151.7 .. 


— .. 


— 





24 .. 


68.95 .. 


— . 


— . 


— .. 


149.2 .. 


— 








25-30 .. 


69.06 .. 


— . 


. 69.00 . 


— .. 


155.2 .. 


0.42 .. 


. 154.0 . 


.. 2.0 



The greatest increase in weight in the case of boys occurs at the age of. 15 
when the gain in weight is 1540 lbs. and in girls at the age of 12 when the 
gain is 1047 lbs. The boy of 15 taking 100 grammes of proteid a day, and the 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 



51 



girl of 12 taking 75 grammes, the total amount used by the former in his fifteenth 
year of age is 81 lbs., by the girl in her twelfth year 608 lbs. Supposing that 
these amounts were required for repair and energy independently of growth, 
the boy requires nearly one-fifth and the girl nearly one-sixth additional 
proteid for growth, on the assumption that the increase in weight is entirely 
in proteids, which is not quite correct. The nutritive ratio for the boy becomes 
1 to 5 and for the girl 1 to 514. 

The matter is, however, not of much practical moment. Carbohydrates act 
as proteid spaxers, and enable the system to do with less proteid for immediate 
purposes. The quantity required for repair and building is thus reduced, and 
nitrogenous equilibrium may be established on a smaller amount of proteid. 
The use of a certain amount of proteid for immediate work appears to increase 
vitality and resistance to disease, so that it is not desirable to go very far in 
this direction. If, however, the boy or girl consumes the additional food in the 
shape of bread, the rest of the diet being sufficiently varied, all practical 
purposes will be served. 

Diet from the economical point of vievif. I propose now to 

discuss the subject briefly from the point of view of economy. Proteid being 
the most essential article of diet, and also the most expensive, it is desirable 
to know how it may be most cheaply obtained. This is shown in the following 
tfible, modified from Hutchinson's figures : — 

TABLE VII. 

(Modified from Hutchinson on Dietetics.) 

Taking the analyses and prices given in Table V., we find that a pound of 
proteid costs : — 



Beef 

Frozen Mutton 

Liver, Ox 

Heart, Ox 

Herring 

American Cheese .. 

Cheshire ,, 

Id. Wholemeal 

Fine Flour 

2d. Oatmeal 

White Bread 

Hovis 

Dried Peas, split 

,, Marrowfat 

Lentils 

Haricot Beans , 

Milk 

Eggs 



d. 
6 

3V = 
77, 
9'/, 



V, 



allowing for 20% loss 10|d. 
allowing for 10% loss Is. l°/|„d. 



... to 5d 

6V,o" 

87,0 

87 

07 

27,0 

37,0 

About same. 

s. d. Not absorbed 

77,0-20%, 87.,d. 

9^—20%, ll7,.d. 

87,-10%, 97, .d. 

87,0-30%, Is. 4d. 

4 

1 



52 



mVEN 



As regards the total calories derivable from the amount of different foods 
which can be bought for the same sum, these are as follows : — 

TABLE VIII. 

(Modified from Hutchinson on Dietetics.) 

The number of Calories obtainable for a shilling without deductions : — 

Refined Cotton Seed Oil 16,740 



Fine Flour at 1/2 the dozen lbs. ... 
Hovis Bread at l^d. per lb. 

Oatmeal 

Beet Sugar 

Peas 

Lard, Dripping, Margarine at 4d. per lb. 

Herrings, 2 for Id 

Potatoes 

Milk 

Butter 

Cheese 

Apples 



15,636 

10,764 

10,894 

10,186 

8,921 

8,652 

4,811 

3,796 

3,000 

2,884 

2,638 

1,529 



We thus see that flour is the cheapest source of energy in general use, 
and that bread, oatmeal and sugar occupy the same rank, while the cheaper fats 
and oils are not much behind, ranking with the pulses. 

Having thus obtained a clear idea of the foods which may be selected to give 
the cheapest foods, we note that the following simple combinations are useful : 

Bread and Milk. 

Bread and Cheese. 

Bread and HeiTings. 

Bread and Margarine or Oil. 

Oatcake and Margarine. 

Oatcake and Cheese. 

Oatmeal as porridge and Sugar. 

Peas and Margarine or Oil. 
From the table showing the analysis of foods into water, proteids, fats, 
carbohydrates and salts we can construct dietaries, and I show diets, for a man 
of average weight (11 stone) doing moderate work, for every day in the week, 
giving a fair amount of variety. They are arranged to contain a quart of milk 
so as to allow each of the children to get a share. The result of this is to raise 
the price of the dietary from 8d. to lOd. as may be seen on substituting for a 
quart of milk at 3id., giving P345grm,, F35'4grm., C5025grm., the following : 







P 


F 


C 


Cheese 

Beans 

Sugar 

Dripping 


. 205 for fd. 

. 205 for id. 

. 105 for id. 

105 for id. 


grm. 
18.51 

14.85 


grm. 

17.44 

1.3 

24 


grm. 

32.96 
25 


In this way we 


Price Ifd. 
save 2|d. 


33.36 


42.74 


61.08 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 



53 



As these diets with milk do not depart much in price from lOd., in applying 
them to families we shall treat them as 8d. diets, the above substitution being 
supposed, assuming that Atwater in his dietary scale has made allowance for the 
necessity of giving milk to very young children. 

I have then endeavoured to reduce the price of the diets as much as 
possible by varying the combination of cheaper foods, and seven such dietaries 
are shown with their prices, the utmost reduction being to 45d., as shown on 
cheap diet 6. A fair diet may, however, be given for 3|d., as shown in No. 7. 

It is conceivable that this might be depressed a little further by using flour 
instead of bread, and refined cotton seed oil as a fat. Such vegetable oil is the 
cheapest of all sources of energy. It is of the greatest importance to depress 
the price of the dietary as far as possible, since every fraction of a penny that 
we can save can be expended on vegetables, such as cabbage, turnips, carrots, 
or on some cheap fruit, such as apples, oranges or bananas. Cabbage may be 
obtained at Id. each, turnips at 2d. for 5 lbs., oranges at four for Id., and 
bananas, I am told, at four for Id. A small portion of these make a valuable 
addition to the dietary. 

The following are the dietaries constructed to yield, most of them, P 125, 
F 125, C 450. 

TABLE IX. 

Monday's Diet. 



Materials. 

Bread, 1 lb 

Potatoes, 1 lb 

Milk, 1 quart 

Rice, 25 grammes at 3d. per lb 

2 herrings = ^ lb. cooked 

Bacon, 2 ozs 

Margarine, 1^ ozs 

Sugar, 2 ozs 

Tea, i oz 

Price 



Price 
Id. 
Id. 
3^d. 

id- 
Id. 
Id. 

7, 

id 
id 



Proteid. 
29.75 

5.4 
35.4 

1.8 
50.12 

4.56 



d. 



Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


4 


... 232.25 


— 


85.95 


35.4 


50.25 


0.25 


19.2 


19.6 


— 


36.68 


— 


36 


— 



56.25 



127.03 



131.93 



SV^ad. 

Meals. 
Breakfast : Milk 1 pint, 1 herring, \ lb. bread, ^ oz. margarine. 
Dinner : Bacon 2 oz. fried, potatoes -^ lb., rice pudding (7,3 lb.), milk 1 pint. 
Tea ^ oz., sugar 1 oz., margarine ^ oz., bread 5 lb., 1 herring. 



443.9 



Tea 



Supper : Potatoes fried in bacon fat ^ lb., margarine ^ oz., bread i lb. 
Tuesday's Diet (for an adult man). 



Materials. 

Bread, 1 lb 

Milk, 1 quart 
Lean Mutton at 6d., 
Peas, at 2d., "/,, lb. 
Margarine, 3^ ozs. 

Vegetables 

Sugar 2.6 oz. 

Tea, id 

Price 



i lb. 



Price. 
Id. 
3id. 
2id. 
Id. 

|d. + id. 
id. 
2id. 
id. 



Proteid. 
29.75 
35.4 
30.375 
29.5 



Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


4.0 


... 232.25 


35.4 


50.25 


9.42 


— 


2.5 


77.9 


84.0 


— 



9id. 



125.025 



135.3 



440.4 



54 



NIVEN 



Breakfast : Bread ^ lb., milk 1^ pints, tea ^ oz. 

Dinner : Lean mutton § lb. fried and then stewed, with the peas previously cooked, cabbage 
separate and margarine 1^ oz., bread ^ lb. 

Tea: Tea g oz., bread ^ lb., margarine 1 oz., sugar 2.6 oz. 
Supper : Bread ^Ib., margarine 1 oz., milk 5 pint. 



Wednesday. 



Materials. 

Pork i lb 

Milk, 1 quart ... . 

Cheese, 2 ozs 

Windsor Beans, ^ lb. 

Bread, 1 lb 

Margarine, 1^ ozs. 

Cabbage 

Potatoes, 1 lb 

Sugar, 2 ozs 

Tea, i oz 

Price 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


2d. 


13.84 


29.48 


— 


3id. 


35.4 


35.4 


50.25 


Id. 


18.51 


17.44 


— 


id- 


14.85 


1.3 


32.96 


Id. 


29.75 


4.0 


,. 232.25 


Id. 


— 


36.0 


— 


id. 


— 


— 


— 


fd. 


5.4 


— 


85.95 


-id. 


— 


— 


56.25 


id. 


— 


— 


— 


9Jd. 


.. 117.75 

• A _ _ 1 ^ _ 


.. 123.62 


.. 457.66 



Breakfast : Bread ^ lb., 1 pint milk, ^ oz. margarine, tea g oz. 
Dinner : Pork ^ lb., beans 5 lb., bread i lb., caggabe and margarine. 
Tea : Tea ^ oz., bread ^ lb., margarine ^ oz., sugar 2 ozs. 
Supper : Fried potatoes 1 lb. , milk 1 pint. 



Thursday. 



Materials. 

Mutton, ^ lb 

Milk, 1 quart 

Suet Pudding, 2 ozs. (^ oz. suet, 1 lb. 
flour. 

Porridge (2 ozs. oatmeal) 

Rice, 2 oz., husk removed 

Bread, 1 lb 

Sugar, 2 ozs 

Tea, :i oz 

Cheese, 1^ ozs. ... 
Turnip, ^ lb. 
Margarine, 1^ ozs. 
Cost of diet 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


3d. 


32.63 


43.87 


— 


3id. 


35.4 


35.4 


50.25 


0.35d. 


5.80 


10.98 


— 


O.fd. 


7.99 


4.11 


37.07 


id. 


4.05 


1.13 


43.2 


Id. 


29.75 


4.0 


.. 236.25 


id. 


— 


— 


56.25 


-id. 


— 


— 


— 


Vud. 


13.424 


12.55 


— 


id. 


1.01 


— 


5.62 


fd. 


— 


36.0 


- 


10.6d. 


130.05 


148.04 


428.64 



Breakfast : Porridge (2 ozs. oatmeal), milk 1 pint, bread ^ lb., margarine ^ oz. 

Dinner: Mutton ^ lb., turnip ^ lb., suet pudding 2 ozs., sugar 1 oz. ' 

Tea : Tea ^ oz., bread ^ lb., margarine ^ oz., sugar 1 oz. 

Supper : Bread ^ lb., cheese 1^ ozs., margarine ^ oz., rice pudding (2 ozs. rice), milk 1 pint. 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 



55 



Friday. 



Materials. 

Beef, ^ lb 

Macaroni 1 oz. . 
Milk, 1 quart 
Cheese, 1 oz. 

Bread, 1 lb 

Sugar, 2 ozs 

Potatoes, 1 lb. ... 
Margarine, 3 ozs. 

Orange 

Tea, ^ oz 

Price ... . 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate 


3d. 


45.0 


3.37 


— 


id. 


3.06 


— 


21.29 


3^d. 


35.4 


35.4 


50.25 


id. 


9.25 


8.72 


— 


Id. 


29.75 


4.0 


.. 232.25 


id. 


— 


— 


56.25 


Id. 


5.4 


— 


85.95 


Id. 


— 


72.0 


— 


Id. 


— 


— 


— 


id. 


— 


— 


— 


lOfd. 


.. 127.86 


.. 123.5 


.. 445.99 



Breakfast : Milk 1 pint, bread i lb., margarine 1 oz. 

Dinner : Beef i lb., potatoes 1 lb., macaroni 1 oz., milk i pint with sugar, orange. 

Tea : Tea i oz., sugar 1 oz., bread i lb., margarine 1 oz. 

Supper : Bread i lb., cheese 1 oz., margarine 1 oz. 



Saturday. 



Articles. 



Bread, 1 lb. .., 
Milk, 1 quart 
Bacon, 2§ ozs. 
Liver i lb. 
Potatoes, 1 lb. 

Cabbage 

Cheese, 3 ozs. 
Sugar, 2.6 ozs. 
Margarine, 
Tea, i oz. 
Price 



oz. 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


Id. 


29.75 


4.0 


.. 232.25 


3id. 


35.4 


35.4 


50.25 


Id. 


4.30 


36.67 


— 


Id. 


25.98 


10.12 


5.62 


Id. 


5.4 


— 


85.95 


id. 


— 


— 


— 


IV, ed. 


26.84 


25.1 


— 


Vud. 


— 


— 


80.0 


id. 


12.0 


— 


— 


id. 


— 


— 


— 


9|d. 


.. 139.67 


111.29 


.. 454.07 



Breakfast : Bread i lb., milk 1 pint. 

Dinner : Liver and bacon (2§ ozs. and i lb.), potatoes 1 lb., cabbage. 
Tea : Tea i oz., bread ^ lb., margarine ^ oz., sugar 2 ozs. 
Supper : Bread i lb., cheese 3 ozs., milk 1 pint. 



56 



NIVKN 



Sunday. 



Materials. 

Herring 1 

Bread, 1 lb 

Milk, 1 quart 

Pastry : dripping 1 oz.,, flour 2 ozs., 
mutton i lb. 

Margarine, 1 oz 

Egg 1 

Potatoes, 5 lb 

Sugar, 2.6 ozs 

Orange 

Cheese, 1 oz 

Tea, i oz 

Price 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate 


Id. 


25.06 


9.8 


— 


Id. 


29.75 


4.0 


... 232.25 


3^d. 


35.4 


35.4 


50.25 


27 „d. .. 


23.56 


48.31 


39.54 


id. 





24.0 


— 


Id. 


— 


— 


— 


^d. 


2.7 


— 


42.97 


V,.d. . 


— 


— 


80.0 


Id. 


— 


— 


— 


id. 


9.25 


8.72 


— 


id. 


— 


— 


— 



lO^d 



125.72 



130.23 



445.01 



Breakfast : Herring 1, bread ^ lb., milk 1 pint. 
Dinner : Pastry, potatoes 5 lb., orange. 
Tea : Tea ^ oz., egg 1, bread ^ lb., margarine 1 oz. 
Supper : Bread ^ lb., cheese 1 oz. 

To these I have added the minimum expenditure on which an adult can 
subsist, which can be extended to children over 3. 



Cheap Diet No. I. 



Articles. 

Bread, 1 lb 

Peas, i lb 

Turnip, ^ lb. 
Margarine, 4 ozs. 
Potatoes, 1 lb. 
Cheese, 2 ozs. 

2 Herrings 

Tea 

Sugar, 2 ozs 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate 


Id. 


29.75 


— 


... 232,25 


id. 


23.6 


— 


69.2 


V.d. 


2.02 


— 


4.02 


Id. 


— 


. 101.0 


— 


fd. 


5.4 


— 


85.9 


Id. 


18.51 


17.44 


— 


Id. 
id. 
id. 


50.12 


19.6 


— 


— 


— 


56.25 



129.40 



138.04 



447.62 



The peas in the above are split peas at l^d. per lb., and are to be made into Soup with the 
Turnip. 

The cost of the above is 5'/2„d. If we add ^d. for share of bone we may call it 6d. But 
in that case the diet will be increased in point of fat. 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 



57 



Cheap Diet No. II. 



Articles. 

4 Herrings 

Bread, 1 lb 

Margarine, 4 ozs. 
Sugar, 4 ozs. 
Potatoes, 1 lb. 

Tea 

Flour, 3 ozs 

Price 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


2d. 


.. 104.26 


39.24 


— 


Id. 


29.75 


— 


... 232,25 


Id. 


— 


. 101.0 


— 


. ^d. 


— 


— 


96.0 


. Id. 
. id. 


5.4 


— 


85.9 


8.4 


— 


59.31 



57, ed. 



147.81 



140.24 



473.46 



Two of the herrings are here to be made into pasties. It is not a diet which could be often 
repeated, though an abundant one. 

In the above diet it is important to retain all the salts. Hence there should be a steamer for 
the potatoes. 



Cheap Diet No. III. 



Articles. 
5 lb. Haricot Beans 

i lb. Bacon 

1 lb. Bread 

Herring, 1 

Margarine, 1 oz. ... 
American Cheese, 6d. 

Tea 

Sugar, 4 ozs. 

Total price... 



1 oz. 



Price. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


Id. 


51.75 


5.175 


316.35 


lid. 


8.11 


73.35 


— 


Id. 


29.75 


4.0 


... 232.25 


Id. 


25.06 


9.8 


— 


id. 


— 


24.0 


— 


Id. 


9.25 


8.72 


— 


id. 


— 


— 


— 


Id. 


— 


— 


... 112.5 



5|d. 



123.92 



125.045 



470.28 



Breakfast: Tea Vie^-? herring 1 bread 6 ozs. 
Dinner : Bacon and beans as above, bread 2 ozs. 
Tea: Tea Vied-, bread 4 ozs., margarine ^ oz. 
Supper : Bread 4 ozs., cheese 1 oz., margarine ^ oz. 

Still cheaper dietaries could be constructed. 



Cheap Diet 


No. 


IV. 






Articles. Price. 




Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate 


1 lb. flour, baked into cakes = 20 % l^d. 




46.44 


8.55 


... 316.53 


proteid. 










1 lb. beans boiled = 20 % proteid ... 2d. 




82.8 


10.35 


... 251.1 


Margarine, 2 ozs ^d. 




— 


48.0 


— 


Dripping, 2 ozs ^d. 




— 


48.0 


— 


Sugar, 1 oz id. 




— 


— 


28.12 


Tea, i oz id. 




— 


— 


— 


Price 4'Vj*d 




129.24 


. 114.90 


... 695.57 



58 



NIVEN 



Articles. 

2 Herrings 

Beans, 5 lb 

Bread, 1 lb 

Sugar, 2 ozs 

Tea, i oz 

Dripping, 1 oz. ... 
Margarine, 2 ozs. 
Treacle, 2 ozs. ... 
Price 



Dietary 
Price. 

Id. 

Id. 

Id. 
. id. 
. id. 
. id. 
. ^d. 
. id. 



No. V. 



Proteid. 
50.12 
40.0 
29.7 



Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


19.6 


— 


5.175 


... 125.0 


4.0 


... 232.5 


— 


56.25 


24.0 





48.0 


— 



39.275 



4^d. 



119.82 



100.78 



453.2 



Cheap Diet No. VI. 



Articles. 

Peas, 1 lb 

Bread, ^ lb 

Herring, 1 

Fat, 2^ ozs 

Bone 

Turnip 

Sugar 2 ozs.. Treacle 2 ozs. 

Tea, i oz 

Price 



Articles. 
Bread, 1-^ lbs. ... 
Sugar, 4 ozs. 

Herring, 2 

Margarine, 1 oz. ... 
Oatmeal, 2 ozs. ... 

Peas, 2 ozs 

Tea, i oz 

Price 



Price, 
l^d. 
^d. 
Id. 

id. + ^d. 
id. say. 
id. 
id. 
id. 



Proteid. 
94.5 
14.875 
25.06 

5.0 



4id. 
Calories, 3385.4 



139.44 



Cheap Diet No. VII. 



Price, 
l^d. 
id. 
Id. 
id. 
id. 
id. 
id. 



Proteid. 
45.0 

50.12 

7.99 
11.2 



3|d. 
Calories = 3141.0 



114.3 



Fat. 


Carbohydrate, 


8.1 


... 249.3 


2.0 


... 116.125 


9.8 


— 


60.0 


— 


10.0 


— 



89.9 



58.7 



95.0 



460.4 



Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


6.0 


348.0 


— 


... 103.0 


19.6 


— 


24.0 


— 


4.11 


37.07 


5.0 


31.18 



519.2 



Breakfast : Porridge and sugar 3 ozs., bread 6 ozs., and 1 oz. margarine, tea ^ oz. 
Dinner : Herrings and bread 6 ozs., peas and i oz. margarine. 
Supper : Bread 6 ozs. and margarine 5 oz., tea ^ oz., sugar 1 oz. 



Examples of dietaries of poor families. These dietaries are 

applied to tlie circumstances of families thus : — By means of enquiries 
instituted through the Health Visitors and Sanitary Inspectors it has been 
ascertained in a number of poor families how much income there is, and what 
is the amount available for and expended on food. Where the latter is in 
excess of the former it may be assumed that the income is at present below 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 59 

the noi-mal level and that the family is falling into arrears. The articles ol 
diet consumed by the family are ascertained and by comparison of the foods 
used with those in which the diet on Atwater's Scale can be given, we may 
ascertain whether the children are receiving enough food. 
The particulars for a few families axe as follows : — 

Family 1. 

m. f. f. m. f. f. 

Members, with ages 49 ... 50 ... 18 ... 12 ... 11 ... 9 

Earnings 17/- 6/- 5/- Total 28/- 

No. of rooms, 4. 

Expenditure: Fire and light, 3/0|; rent, 4/-; clothes, 1/8. 
Available for food, under 19 /2|. Expended on food, 20/- per week. 
Foods used : Beef, 8d. ; bacon, 8d. ; liver, 6d. ; cod, 3d. ; milk, 3|d. ; 
margarine, 6d. ; lard, 8d.; potatoes, Is. a score; jam, 4|d. ; sugar, 2d.; American 
cheese, 8d. ; cabbage, Id.; carrots and turnips, 2 lbs. for l|d. ; tinned milk, 2|d. 
per tin; tea, 1/2 per lb. 

At 7|d. per head of the household, the expense on Atwater's Scale equals 
19/85^. At least 7d. is available, and this should give a good and varied diet, 
though not in the above articles. 

The family do not appear well nourished. Very little alcohol used. 





Family 2. 










f. 

39 ., 


f. f. m. 
.. 13 ... 11 ... 8 .. 


f. 
. 6 .. 


f. 
. 4 .. 


m. 
. 2 .. 


f. 
. 3 m. 



m. 
Age 39 

Earnings, 19/-. 

No. of rooms,4. 

Expenditure: Eent, 4/9; clothing, lOd. ; Fuel, etc., 2/2; total, 7/9. 

Available for food, 11/3; expenditure, about 12/-. 

Food used : — Breakfast : Dry toast and tea. Dinner : Potato hash, some- 
times pea soup. Tea : Tea, bread and margarine. Supper : Children have 
bread, parents tea and bread. 

On a milk diet at lOd., with Atwater's Scale, this family would cost 37 /0| 
at 7d., with the three youngest children on milk diet it would cost 24/6. With 
the six older members at 4^d. per day and the three young children specially 
dieted on milk 14s. 6d. 

The family can be adequately fed for 3|d., for which, as we have seen, a 
possible diet can be given. But with the materials actually used the family 
is hopelessly underfed. 

Family 3. 
m. f. f. f. m. f. f. f. f. 

Age 41 ... 40 ... 20 ... 18 ... 13 ... 9 ... 6 ... 4^ ... 1 

Rooms, 5. Earnings, 29/6. 

Deducting 10/2 for rent, fuel, clothes, club and school money, there remains 
19/4 available. Actual sum expended 20/-. 

On a 5d. diet the family could be supported for 17 /2i. A 6d. diet would 
cost about 20/8. 

The expenditure here in detail is: — Breakfast: Tea, bread and bacon (6d.). 
Dinner : Stew, broth, pea soup, potatoes, cabbage. Tea : Tea, bread and 



60 



NIVEN 



margarine or dripping. This is not so conspicuously deficient, and the family, 
as a matter of fact, appears well nourished. 

The prices are of interest : Beef, 2|d. ; bacon, 6d. ; liver, 4d. ; bones, 
Id. worth ; herrings, 3 and 4 for Id. ; cod, 2d. ; bloaters, 2 for l|d. ; savoury 
duck. Id. each ; margarine, 6d. ; suet given in ; flour 1 jd. ; oatmeal, 2d. ; rice, 2d. ; 
potatoes, Is. per score ; bread, 2 lbs. for 2d. ; sugar, 2 lbs. for 3|d. ; peas, 3d. 
and l|d. ; cabbage. Id. ; turnips and carrots, 2 lbs. for Id. ; tea Is. 4d. The 
utmost economy is shown here, and one cannot improve very much on it. 

In some cases the mother has found out for herself how to make the money 
go as far as possible, but it is not possible to pursue this matter into more 
detail. I therefore throw the material into a table : — 







No. of 


Money 


No. 


No. in 


children not 


available for 




family 


working 


for food 


4 


.. 7 . 


.. 4 ... 


15/9 


5 


.. 8 . 


.. 4 ... 


19/9 


6 


.. 5 . 


.. 3 ... 


16/71 


7 


.. 8 . 


.. 5 ... 


17/9 


8 


.. 8 . 


.. 3 ... 


31/- 


9 


.. 9+ . 
lodger 


.. 5 ... 


25/5 


10 


.. 7 . 


.. 2 ... 


24/- 


11 


.. 5 . 


.. 3 ... 


22/6 


12 


.. 5 . 


.. 3 ... 


13/9 


13 


.. 8 . 


.. 5 ... 


24/- to 14/- 


14 


.. 9 . 


.. 7 ... 


8/1 


15 


.. 6 . 


.. 4 ... 


7/61 


16 


.. 6 . 


.. 2 ... 


9/9 


17 


.. 9 . 


.. 6 ... 


11/2 


18 


.. 7 . 


.. 4 ... 


12/- 


19 


.. 6 . 


.. 4 ... 


7/3 


20 


.. 6 . 


.. 4 ... 


16/6 


21 


.. 6 . 


.. 4 ... 


12/- 


22 


.. 5 . 


.. 3 ... 


17/9 


23 


.. 6 . 


.. 4 ... 


11/3 


24 


.. 5 . 


.. 3 ... 


5/6 


25 


.. 3 . 


.. ... 


l/6 + (?) 


26 


.. 4 . 


.. 2 ... 


12/- 


27 


.. 7 . 


.. 5 ... 


14/- 


28 


.. 8 . 


.. 5 ... 


16/- 


29 


.. 7 . 


.. 4 ... 


16/-, spent 15/- 


30 


.. 5 . 


.. 3 ... 


16/-, spent 15/- 


31 


.. 7 . 


.. 5 ... 


12/6 


32 


.. 6 . 


.. 4 ... 


Available 24/-, 
spent 18/- 


33 


.. 7 . 


.. 5 ... 


Available 27/6, 
spent 20/- 


34 


.. 7 . 


.. 2 ... 


Available 22/-, 
spent 20/- 



TABLE X. 




Rate at which 




Atwater's Diet Scale 


Expenditure 


can be given 


economical 


5^d. 


.. No. 


6d. = 18/10.8d. 


.. No. 


7id. 


.. No, healthy. 


5id. 


.. Yes, healthy. 


About 8d. 


.. Yes, healthy. 


7d. 


.. No, healthy. 


8d. 


.. Fairly healthy. 


8d. = 18/1.6 


.. Yes, healthy. 


7d. 


.. No, healthy. 


8d. to 4|d. now. 


.. No, not healthy. 


3d. yields 9s. 47 ^d. on 


.. Yes, not healthy. 


Atwater's scale. 




3|d. yields 7/7|d. 


.. Not very 


3d. yields 8/9 


.. No. 


4d. gives 11/5 


.. Yes, proteids deficient. 


45d. sufficient. 


.. Yes. 


3id. yields 7/ If 


.. No. 


7d. yields 15 /lid. 


.. No. 


6d. yields 12/ lid. (5id.) 


. . Fairly. 


8d. yields 14/llid. 


.. Yes. 


Diet 5id. 


.. No. 


4d. would require 7/- 


.. Yes. 


4d. would require 7/- 




8d. = 12/1.6d. 


.. No. 


5d. = 14/l 


.. No. 


5fd. = 15/11 


.. No. 


5Ld. = 16/l 


.. No. 


8d. = 14/5^ 


.. Fairly. 


5d. = 13/1.5 


.. No. 


8d. = 16/91 


.. No. 


7d. = 19/7.2d. 


.. No, more food required 


7d. = 20/9.8d. 


.. No. 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 61 

From a study of the particulars given in these and other enquiries it 
appears that when the pinch begins the stress does in reality often fall on the 
wife and children or on the children who are not yet able to earn money. 

Out of the 34 given in table 10, which are taken as they come, it will be seen 
that only in four instances is it quite impossible to provide an adequate diet, 
in which case it may be said that the families are destitute. The standard 
taken is 3fd. per man. In the majority of cases, however, owing largely to 
want of knowledge of the means by which a sufficient diet may be secured, and 
judging from the articles used, the diet value is far below Atwater's standard. 
A strenuous effort should therefore be made to impart the necessary knowledge, 
both to parents and to school children. 

Expensive articles of food. The great choice of tasty but 
expensive articles in towns appears to me to be a serious evil, and goes far to 
explain the inferior physique of the townsman. Efficiency in diet is sacrificed 
to quality. It is very essential in particular that the poorer classes should be 
made acquainted with the value of the cheaper sources of proteid, such as 
herring, the pulses, oatmeal, flour, how to cook them, and to what extent they 
can afford to use meats. 

Physlca.1 exercise. Some years ago I had an enquiry made by the 
health visitors into the relative healthiness of native children and of the 
children of immigrants from the country, and no differences could be perceived. 
I infer that there is no natural inferiority in the townsman, and I think it is 
probable that, if properly fed and cared for the town child would have nearly 
as good a physique as the country child. 

If children are to reap the benefit of physical exercises they must receive 
sufficient food, and, provided they are taking exercise, there is no reason why 
they should not take that food in the most economical forms. Exercise with 
a sufficient diet is in general highly beneficial, without it injurious. 

I am satisfied that at present the poorer classes require clear instruction in 
dietetics and cooking, and in a large number of cases assistance as well. But 
judicious guidance alone would be very useful. 

Alcohol- In the above table I have given the money available, after 
known sources of expenditure had been deducted from the wages. It is rarely 
that anything is left for alcohol, or it is at a most a very small amount. But 
there are doubtless many destitute families rendered so through drink. These 
the health visitors would not be able to investigate for evident reasons. 
I am satisfied, however, that the money stated to be expended on food in the 
returns used is so expended within narrow limits. 

Houslngf in relation to feeding:. It will have appeared that diet 
has been treated as the largest factor in the gain and loss of health of children, 
and it is evident that this must be so. It is on the quantity and quality of the 
food that the greatest change can be imposed. The question of housing is no 
doubt an important one, and it is interlocked with that of food. People want 
more house-room and better surroundings, and if their means allow they 



62 



NIVEN 



will generally kave both. If their means are inadequate, according to their 
tastes, some will put up with poorer housing, others with more meagre fare. 
The latter is probably the more dangerous policy to pursue. 

If, however, they are compelled to avoid crowding, they must, when pinched, 
get less food, and vice versa. No doubt a good deal, both in food and housing, 
might be extracted from the alcohol now consumed, but a very large number 
of cases will remain, in which the course to be pursued on the total income has 
to be carefully weighed, in regulating the housing and diet of families. 

Preserved foods. It is found that not a few, even of the poorest 
families, use jams which are, of course, made from glucose. In temperance 
drinks, as well as beer, glucose is used. Tinned foods are also largely used. 
They save trouble, and are not always uneconomical. Condensed milks again 
are largely used. It is clear that thjese substances require to be sampled and 
analysed. If, also, we are to put no hindrance in the way of using cheap oils, 
lard, dripping and margarine, their composition and safety should be ascer- 
tained. The presence and amount of preservatives present in foods should 
be determined by analysis. The bacteriological safety of foods also requires 
investigation. A specially watchful attention should be directed to preserved 
foods, and cheap articles of diet. But for our immediate purpose, these are 
not the most important matters. 



III. THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. 

Death Rates of Children under 1 year. We now come to con- 
sider the feeding of infants under one year of age. There has been no reduction 
in the mortality of infants as measured by the number of deaths in the first 
year of life per 1,000 births, corresponding to that which has taken place in 
children at higher ages. The facts for the whole country are as follows : — 
I' give the number of deaths under one year per 1,000 births in successive 
decennia, and also the deaths less diarrhceal diseases. The effect of decennial 
seasonal variations are in the latter figures to some extent eliminated. The 
general effect is one of improvement up to the last decennium, when 
retrogression has occurred. This is more clearly perceived if diarrhoea be 
excluded. 







TABLE XL 






Deaths 


per 1,000 births in decennial periods, 


England 


and Wales. 










Rate less diarrhoe 




Births 


Deaths under one year 


Rate per 1000 births and cholera 


1851-60 


6,471,650 


. 996,630 


154 


141 


1861-70 


7,500,096 


1,155,182 


154 


137 


1871-80 


8,588,782 


1,277,326 


149 


132 


1881-90 


8,890,238 


1,259,860 


142 


128 


1891-00 


9,155,153 


1,403,719 


153 


135 



In Manchester City, since 1891, the total effect is that the mortality rate 
has increased, though, if diarrhoea be excluded, a marked improvement is 
shown. 



Year 
1891 


1891- 
1897- 




City. 

All causes. 

192 


1892 




178 


1893 




201 


' 1894 




159 


1895 




202 


1896 




176 


1897 




195 


1898 




196 


1899 




205 


1900 




189 


1901 




198 


1902 




151 


Average, six years, 


-1896 ... 
-1902 ... 


184.6 
189.0 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 63 

TABLE XII. 

Death-rates under 1 year per 1,000 Births, Manchester. 

All causes less Diarrhoea. 

176 

162 

165 

145 

166 

151 

156 

150 

157 

153 

150 

138 

160.8 

150.7 

The figures are not available further back than 1871. Since that time the 
decennial data agree with those for England and Wales, as shown by the 
following figures : — 

Comparison of deaths per 1,000 of infants (born) from all causes and from 
diarrhoea, during the decennia 1871-80 and 1881-90 (Manchester, Chorlton 
and Prestwich Unions). 

Deaths under 1 year per 1,000 births. 
All Causes. DiarrhteaA Cholera. Less Diarrhoea. 

1871-80 176 260 150 

■ 1881-90 169 ...... 191 150 

1891-1900 189-47 3145 158 

The first question we must ask relative to these figures is : — Are they 
correct? It is possible that they depend to some extent on a changing propor- 
tion of infants dying within a few days of birth, who have been registered as 
still-bom. It may be possible to get some information on this point by taking 
the death-rate of still-born children. The information which the Registrars 
of the Cemeteries have kindly furnished shows that within the past ten years 
no material alteration has taken place in the numbers registered. It is 
improbable, however, that this can have largely affected the figures, and we 
have to ask how it is that diarrhoea has exacted an increasing infantile 
mortality, although infant mortality as a whole has declined, in Manchester at 
all events. 

Diminution in maternal lactation. I have been infonned by 
Medical Practitioners that there is a diminution in maternal lactation, a much 
smaller proportion of mothers now suckling their infants than was formerly 



64 



NIYEN 



the case, and we know that diarrhoea is powerfully affected by this factor, I 
have endeavoured to ascertain the cause of this alleged increase in the number 
of persons who do not suckle their offspring. By some it is ascribed to a lowered 
vitality, by others to a disinclination to give up their accustomed pleasures. 

If the fact be as stated, it will account for the increased diarrhceal mortality. 
It is to be observed, however, that the increase in the last decennium is a 
general one over the whole country, and may, therefore, be due to seasonal 
changes. 

Defective feeding'. On the other hand, the diminution in the infantile 
death-rate in Manchester during the 12 years, 1891 to 1902, other than 
diarrhceal, may reasonably be ascribed to public instruction in infant feeding 
since 1895. If, as is generally accepted, fatal summer diarrhoea is due directly 
to impure food, what are the factors which have been at work? 

The death-rates per 1,000 births in the City of Manchester and its three 
Main Divisions in the decennium 1891-1900 are given in the following table : — 



TABLE XIII. 

Annual Death-rates under 1 year per 1,000 Births for the years 1891-1900 
from all causes, and from four selected causes in the City of Manchester and in 
each of its three Main Divisions. 



Disease. 


City. 


Township. 


Northern. 


Southern. 


Diarrhocal Diseases ... 


31.45 


36.83 


26.74 


30.73 


Convulsions 


13.07 


15.96 


9.71 


13.19 


Lung Diseases 


34.91 


40.12 


31.73 


33.39 


Found dead in bed ... 


6.00 


8.59 


3.79 


5.62 


All causes 


189.47 


218.93 


160.95 


187.18 



It appears that the total infantile death-rates in the three main divisions 
of Manchester do not differ from each other nearly to the extent that the 
diarrhoea death-rates do, and that more than half the differences are to be found 
under the four headings — diarrhoea, convulsions, lung diseases and found dead 
in bed. Of these causes we may say that the last is in special relation to 
intemperance, and here the differences are most profound. Scarcely less so 
are the differences under convulsions, a cause of death in special relation to 
errors and neglect in feeding. Lung disease, doubtless, stands in special 
relation to defective nutrition, and the differences under this head are of the 
same order as under diarrhoea. 

It is impossible to doubt that defective nutrition, from whatever causes 
arising, is a potent determining factor in fatal diarrhoea, and when I have 
animadverted on the condition of the milk supply to dealers, the answer has 
been that there are plenty of infants who get no milk, and they die faster than 
those do who get the milk so much blamed. This is, of course, true, though 
all it proves is a deeper poverty and misery. It does not even prove that milk 
is the best food for infants. 

It is worth noting that in North Manchester, which is par excellence the 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 65 

industrial division of the City, the infantile death-rates are far the lowest 
from each cause named, and indeed our enquiries show that mothers in these 
districts with rare exceptions do stay at home and tend their children. 

Factors believed to influence Diarrhcea Death-rates. 

The factors which have been believed to exercise an influence on the diarrhoea 
death-rates are the annual mean temperature, the mean rainfall, geological 
conditions of the soil, insanitary conditions such as overcrowding and dirt, 
defective methods of storing and removing excreta, defects in the milk supply, 
defective methods of infant feeding. 

On the relation of temperature and rainfall to diarrhcea, it is not necessary 
here to enlarge. There can be no doubt, I think, that defective nutrition 
is the largest avoidable factor concerned. There is equally little doubt that 
a pure milk supply would often get contaminated by keeping, and by dirty 
feeding utensils. 

As regards conditions of the soil, the soil is probably of importance in regard 
chiefly of the amount of filth which it can hold near the surface in a moist 
condition, and its importance becomes comparatively small when suitable 
methods for the removal of refuse are adopted. 

Our observations seem to show that it is possible to overestimate this factor 
which can only act when the air is grossly contaminated, and when milk has 
been exposed to the contaminated air for a considerable period. It seems 
probable, however, that the infection may be carried by flies. 

Foods such as milk, fruit, meat pies, meat shapes, may easily get 
contaminated in shops, where infection may develop for 12 hours or longer 
before the food is disposed of.* 

The infective matter of diarrhoea can thus be introduced into houses much 

more effectively than through the air carrying particles of excreta, and the 

* milk and teat may be alike infected from contaminated fruit, the one by means 

of the mother's hands and the other through both fruit and milk being kept in 

the same cupboard. 

Not only may diarrhoea be communicated in other ways than by food, as by 
sucking dirty clothes and by other food than milk, but even when milk in the 
safest forms is given the disease occurs. It occurs comparatively, but not 
absolutely, rarely when the infant is taking the breast. This is no doubt due 
to contamination of the nipple. It occurs also not rarely when, so far as can 
be ascertained, only boiled milk has been used. This may be due to a dirty 
tube or teat or bottle. But it occurs also not rarely when a spoon is used. 
It is also not rare in connection with the use of condensed milk. 

Important then as the purity and freshness of the milk are, we have by no 
means done with the causation of summer diarrhoea in infants when we have 
secured for them a pure milk. On the other hand, milk is probably the most 
important factor in determining a high death-rate from diarrhoea, not on 
account so much of the immediate chances of escaping infection as on account 
of the improvement in nutrition which a good milk supply would produce, and 



•See Delepine on "Food Poisoning and Diarrhoea," Journal of Hygiene, Vol. iii., No. 1. 
F 



66 NIVEN 

the effect of this improvement on the death-rate. Professor Delepine considers 
from his examination of milk that the freshness of milk is all important in the 
causation of diarrhoea, and, on the whole, I believe his contention to be 
sustained by the facts. 

We may sum up the most important lactors in the causation of fatal 
diarrhoea as : 

1. Insufficient food, overcrowding. 

2. Dirt. 

3. Milk not sufficiently fresh. 

4. Want of knowledge of the conditions requisite in preparing food for 

infants. 
It must be admitted that advance will necessarily be very slow in this 
direction.* 

Malnutrition. It is, of course, not a mere question of diarrhoea. In an 
excellent paper contributed to the Medical Chronicle, Dr. Hailton traces to 
malnutrition the excessive mortality in infants from wasting, convulsions and 
bronchitis, a subject on which he is well qualified to pronounce an opinion. 
On convulsions as a sign of bad feeding he lays special stress, and, indeed, I 
have used this sign as a test of the value of our feeding instructions year by 
year. In these regards we can show improvement. But a severe task lies 
before us in trying to reduce the death-rate still further. 

Before entering on the subject of the steps which I believe to be necssary 
to still further reduce infant and child mortality. I must briefly mention to 
you the efforts which have been made to improve our milk supply. 

imp rove nrient of iVIiilc Supplies. They are either in their infancy 
or are abortive, but in view of the importance of the subject they require 
attention. 

1. The Pure Milk Supply of Copenhagen. This Company, whose 
continued success is due to the energy of Mr. Busck, at one time supplied 
about a quarter of the milk consumed in Copenhagen. The milk was sold at 
current prices. The chief features are these : — The cows are kept clean and 
free from disease, under veterinary inspection. The milk is kept comparatively 
free from micro-organisms by the use of ice from milking to delivery. Every 
inducement is given to farmers and employes of the company not to conceal 
infectious disease. 

2. The Walker-Gordon Laboratories. Of these, according to Hotch, there 
were in 1902 eighteen in the States and Canada, and one in London, At 
these laboratories the whole milk, which must contain only a small number 
of bacteria, is divided by centrifuging into cream and separated milk, and 
the caseinogen is removed from the separated milk by the use of rennet. 
The compounder thus has at his disposal cream mixtures, whole milk, whey, 
milk sugar, sterilised water, lime water, and can make up from these, within 
certain limits, any prescription for modified infants' milk which is desired. 

* For a full discussion of the causes of summer diarrhoea see Newsholme, Public Health, 1899. 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 67 

The most elaborate precautions are taken in regard to avoidance of impurities. 
The cows are stall-fed. Ice is freely used. 

3. The Municipal Sterilisation of Milk. This was introduced into this 
country by Dr. Drew Harris, of St. Helens, and is in use also in Liverpool, 
Battersea, and Ashton-under-Lyne. Whole milk obtained from contractors is 
taken to municipal stations, is mixed with certain proportions of cream and 
sugar according to the age of the infants to be fed, is run into bottles, sterilised, 
sealed and sent to distributing stations. Each bottle contains one feed, and 
the requisite number of bottles for a day's supply is put up in baskets. Two 
teats are supplied with the basket. The parent must pay in advance, and the 
milk is only supplied under stringent conditions, a record being kept of the 
progress of the infant. 

4. General Administrative Action, comnnon to Manchester and a fexo other 
Towns. This includes ample and successful enforcement of the Sale of Food 
and Drugs Acts, measures for the prevention of tubercular infection in milk, 
enforcement in Manchester of regulations under the Dairies, Cowsheds and 
Milkshops Orders, stringent so far as cowsheds and cows are concerned, and 
extensive as well as practical instruction in the modification and sterilisation of 
milk at home. Something is also effected in the way of improving farms 
outside. 

5. Modification and stemlisation of milk at hoine are carried out at home 
under medical supervision according to methods such as those given in 
Dr. Ashby's book on " Health in the Nursery." 

6. Much good may be effected merely by addition of small amounts of 
bicarbonate of soda and starch. 

Only in the first two methods are milks used which are quite fresh. The 
milk must therefore be sterilised, and it is not sufficient to Pasteurise it. 

Now Professor Delepine has shown the immense importance of using only 
fresh milk in the reduction of its infectiveness, and has demonstrated that 
this may be obtained in two ways — either by obtaining the milk from some 
neighbouring farm, or by keeping it cooled down from milking to delivery 
by the use of ice or by some other means of refrigeration. The latter procedure 
remains therefore with our present milk supply, even if it were much improved, 
an irreducible need. 

From the point of view of digestion it is no less important, as a milk which 
is not fresh produces a hard leathery curd. 

Summary of Recommendations regrardingf the milk 
supply, * These recommendations may be summed up thus: — It is not 
sufficient to provide for poor persons a modified milk sterilised. Such milk 
should be clean and fresh and should be absolutely under control. It should 
be supplied only under certain conditions, such as those in use in Liverpool, or 
still more stringent. The condition of the milk supply will not be reasonably 
satisfactory until the necessity for keeping it cool from milking to delivery is 
generally recognised. As many persons as can do so should get their milk from 

* In connection with this subject I desire to draw attention to the admirable report on the 
milk supply of Finsbury, by Dr. Newman, reproduced in the February number of Ptihlic Health. 



68 mVEN 

the neighbourhood, and should satisfy themselves as to the cleanliness of the 
cows, cowsheds, milk cans, and water used. Milk kept for a great number of hours 
in summer, at ordinary temperature, gives a hard, leathery curd, very difficult of 
digestion, and causes gastric and intestinal irritation. The curd may be softened 
by the addition of alkali and a little starchy flour to the food, and possibly this 
may often enable the infant to digest the milk without modification. These 
additions are much more likely to be effective with clean fresh milk recently 
drawn from the cow. Home modification on the lines suggested by Dr. Ashby 
is also much more likely to be effective if the milk is clean and fresh. It is a 
question whether an effort should not be made to get a number of milk farms 
established near towns, the the desire for pasture being put aside and the cows 
stall-fed on a selected and fairly uniform diet. The enforcement of a sufficient 
degree of cleanliness in milk will only be possible when the milk must pass a 
certain standard of bacteriological purity. 

Instruction of Girls, To feed an infant successfully, however, the 
person in charge must be trained not only to prepare the food skilfully, but 
also to keep the infant's person and clothes thoroaighly clean, and otherwise 
to care for it. Experience has abundantly shown that the most careless class 
do not take advantage of modified milk. Where children are seriously neg- 
lected, it is usually the result of drink. In dealing with such persons the 
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children will be of more avail than 
lady inspectors. 

More instruction is needed, and more, I hope, will be forthcoming. But 
the Education Authority can do infinitely more in this matter than the Sanitary 
Committee. Whatever subject girls are or are not instructed in, they ought 
to be taught the elements of domestic economy and hygiene before they leave 
school, and such instruction should be practical. They should be taught in 
regard to infants the vital necessity of cleanliness in and about the house, what 
they ought to wear and how to dress them, the necessity for keeping their 
persons and clothing thoroughly clean, especially in the case of posseting babies. 
The most skilful feeding may be defeated by the absence of such care. 

As regards feeding, I see no reason why they should not be taught how to 
modify milk by some such processes as are described in Ashby's book; each 
step taken in the storage of milk, in its sterilisation, and in the cleaning of 
materials being thoroughly explained and practised. It is hopeless to think of 
overtaking the feeding of infants in any other way than through the schools. 
They should receive elementary instructions in the value of the different con- 
stituents of food, and should be made to use their arithmetic to construct 
dietaries. It is merely a sum in addition, with the interest of a not very 
difficult puzzle added. Given the ratio of diets for different ages they could 
be set to find out how much must be brought in for a family of given ages in a 
day or a week, and how much it would cost. To most of them the arithmetic 
which they have learned must be of very little value indeed, if it will not stretch 
so far as this. In this way money would be made to go as far as possible 
in providing a sufficient diet. This would do much to avert the craving for 
liquor which is much more intense in persons insufficiently fed and working 
hard, than in persons getting enough food. There is no doubt whatever that 



FEEDING OF THE YOl'NG G9 

not merely sometliing could be done by this means, as Mr. Eowntree says, but 
a vast economy of health and a great increase of productiveness could be 
brought about. 

As regards the working out of diets, boys should be set the same tasks. They 
should also be made to calculate out dietaries in use. Further, it should be 
possible in a certain number of cases to get the home dietaries completely 
tabulated, and so to ascertain whether the diet was sufficient. These most 
useful proceedings require absolutely nothing except such arithmetic as school 
children in the upper standards are supposed to possess, with some practice. 
It would be no less interesting, and much easier, to calculate out the 
constituents in the diet of institutions, than to construct fresh dietaries, and 
would give the opportunity for judicious criticism. 

Another immense economy could be effected in cooking. There surely can 
be no doubt that every girl should be taught practically how to cook. In the 
cooking of peas and beans to make them palatable, whether as soups or as 
separate dishes, considerable ingenuity may be usefully expended, while herring 
may be cheaply served in a number of appetising ways. 

Special attention should be directed to the cooking of the cheaper foods 
which are rich in proteid in the poorest schools, that is to the pulses, herring, 
flour, oatmeal, cheese. It is astonishing what variety may be derived from 
these. Meat, especially beef and mutton, should, however, in all cases be 
included, as well as milk and eggs, and the cheaper vegetables and fruits. It 
is the woman's privilege and pleasure to cook well, and if education means 
drawing out the natural faculty in the most useful directions, then, if this is 
not education, I don't know what is. 

Then a girl should be taught sewing, mending and washing. By these means 
she will be made to utilise her arithmetic which, in nine cases out of ten, she 
makes no use of and presently forgets, her life will be filled with varied demands 
and utilities, she will not find time hang heavy on her hands, and when she 
comes to be married and have children she will know, to a certain extent, what 
to do. Probably she will be able to make both ends meet, and perhaps lay some- 
thing by. Finally, as far as woman is concerned, this is the higher and holier 
and nobler life, of which one hears in educational questions. 

Physical Exercise and Supervision of tlie i-ieaith of 

Cili id ren. Teaching should be modified in the same direction. The new 
system of physical exercises imposes necessarily on teachers the gravest duties. 
So long as only mental studies were concerned, to which an ill-fed or ailing 
child could oppose an impenetrable stupidity, possibly no great harm was done 
to an ill-fed child himself by the failure of teachers to detect his condition. 
Now, I quite agree that physical exercises are an admirable thing for well- 
fed children. They are liable, on the other hand, to be most deleterious to 
ill-fed or ailing children. Moreover, any conditions of ill-health which inter- 
fere with receptivity interfere with education, while they cause much misery 
to the individual child. It has, in my opinion, on both grounds, become most 
essential that teachers should be carefully trained to detect signs of illness or 
weakness, and to assign them to the true cause as a first approximation, that is 
to disease or privation. This knowledge should be obtained by instruction 



70 NIYEN 

given to teachers by medical experts while examining classes of children, and 
the action to be taken in individual cases should be explained. 

It is, in my opinion, not possible in any other way to overtake the work. 
The teacher sees the child at study and sees him taJiing exercise, and has many 
opportunities of observation which fall to him, or her, alone. But to give 
precision and confidence in forming a judgment on physical condition requires 
careful training. 

If a child is suffering from insufficient nourishment, it should be fed. 
Nothing will excuse a child being starved, whether on the ground of humanity 
or on the ground of efficiency, and as a preventative of vice, crime and disease. 
Careful enquiry should be made by the School Attendance Officers as to the 
nourishment which the child receives, and here I wish to enter a note of 
warning. 

Many persons lament the good old days of oatmeal porridge, and it is 
necessary, therefore, to be careful to ascertain in such foods as porridge and 
pea soup, how much oatmeal and how much peas falls to the share of the child. 
But very little oatmeal can be got into a reasonable quantity of palatable 
porridge, and in the same w-ay we must be careful that pea soup is made 
sufficiently thick to be nourishing. Oatcake is a different matter, and the 
cooking of oatcake should be carefully taught. The means by which the ability 
of the parent to supply the necessary amount of food of suitable quality present 
features of great difficulty. 



lY. SCHEME FOE IMPROVING THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF 

SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

The scheme which I have in view is something like the following, which 
is indeed only an extension of that of the Manchester Education Authority, in 
administering their Free Food Fund : — 

The trained teacher is of opinion, let us suppose, after observing a child at 
his studies and during exercise, that he is not receiving sufficient nourishment. 
He would thereupon communicate with the Director of Elementary Education, 
who would instruct the School Attendance Officer to ascertain the income of the 
family, and the expenditure per week other than on food which is absolutely 
necessary, also the age, sex, and conditions of work of each member of the 
family. These particulars are returned to the Director, who refers them back 
to the head teacher to determine whether the parents can provide a sufficiency 
of food, and on what scale of diet. For this purpose the teacher might 
be furnished with a set of model diets, and all necessary particulars 
guiding him in the determination of a suitable diet for the family and the 
amount which can be expended. He or some member of his staff must be 
able to work out the diet required, and special training for this purpose "s 
required. The parent is then to be informed how a sufficient diet can be procured 
for his family on the money available, and required to see that the child 
8 properly fed. If, after some weeks, it is found that the child is still 
insufficiently fed the parent is to be compelled to furnish the food necessary 
or to defray the cost of feeding him. For this purpose powers are to be 



HEALTH OF THE YOUNG 71 

conferred to Educational Authorities by Parliament, and they are to be required 
to carry them into effect. If the powers were carried into effect in one district 
and not in another the results would not be satisfactory. 

Clearly in cases of doubt or difficulty the Medical Officer of the School Board 
would have to determine the doubtful issues and advise as to proceedings, or 
where the Education Authority does not possess a Medical Officer, the Medical 
Officer of Health. Is the School Attendance Officer quite the suitable person 
for such delicate enquiries, and what are the enquiries which might be supposed 
to be necessary? 

In addition to the enquiries above named, the food alleged to be given to the 
child would form matter for investigation. Ueficiency might arise from 
ignorance, and therefore I consider that the first step which must be taken is 
to place within the reach of every family in the community so much knowledge 
of dietetics as will enable the parents to use their means fo the best advantage, 
in such a shape as that, if they cannot themselves utilise the information given, 
they may readily get assistance in doing so. The utilisation of the family 
income to secure, where possible, a sufficiency of nutriment to the growing 
child is of such far-reaching importance that where a child appears to be 
suffering from deficiency of food this mus^ override the reluctance of the 
Educational Authority to interfere further with the affairs of families. 

The question then narrows itself to this : Are the School Attendance Officers 
persons who are suitable for such enquiries? But that is merely a detail of 
administration which can receive due attention. Especially at the present time 
advice as to the wise expenditure of money in food is of immense importance 
to the population, and I am of opinion that the subject should be well discussed 
by all those gentlemen who have taken a special interest in these questions. 
In a very large number of instances, at present at all events, it would become 
clear that the means of the parents, when fully utilised and stretched to the 
utmost limit of their buying capacity, are inadequate to find the children in 
food. 

We are then brought face to face with the question, " Is thie Educational 
Authority to rely on charity for the funds required, or should these be supplied 
out of the heavily burdened rates?" The Scottish Commission have answered 
this question in the sense that charity must be relied upon. On the whole, I 
am inclined to think otherwise, though I qiiite realise the difficulties. If the 
burdens of parents are removed, it may be said, you are making them so much 
better off, and you are thus giving an impulse to the increased production of 
children. Is it so? Does the birth-rate increase or decrease with increased 
well-being ? 

If we look at the birth-rates in our richer and poorer districts we find that 
the birth-rate amongst well-to-do people is smaller than amongst the poor. In 
accord with this is the reduction in the birth-rate as the circumstances of the 
nation have improved. I will not stay to discuss the reasons for this apparent 
anomaly, though I think it is quite explicable. Suffice it to say that the birth- 
rate reaches a maximum amongst moderately well-to-do artisans, and declines 
therefrom in both directions. We must conclude, then, that this argument 
is not without some foundation. 

On the other hand, you are not lifting the burden to an extent materially 



72 NIVEN 

to affect the birth-rate. There still remain the children under school age, and 
in those families in which there are no such children, in most cases, the older 
children will have begun to earn wages, and assistance will not be required. 
The gain in wealth to the community, by passing school children on to the 
working period in a condition of physical efficiency, would be so enormous as 
to quite justify, in my opinion, the additional immediate burden on the rates. 
How is the necessary assistance to be given, by one, two, or more school meals? 
It is useless entering on a course of feeding of children if it is not to effect the 
purpose. 

Suppose, for example, one meal of porridge with sugar is supplied to a child 
age seven, what relation does this bear to the 625 grammes of proteid, and 
1,750 Calories of energy which he requires for full efficiency? Let us suppose 
that at such a meal he gets 2 oz. of Scotch oatmeal and 2 oz. of sugar. 

Take the analysis: — Oatmeal, P. 145, fat 10; carbohydrate, 65 per cent; 
beet sugar carbohydrate, 92 per cent. 

First Tneal. The total proteid in this meal = 8' 16 grammes; fat = 5'62; 
Calories = 287'57. The proteid, then, without deductions = one-eighth of that 
required for a day's diet, and the total energy = one-sixth of that required. 

Second meal. Suppose, at another meal, he gets one pint of pea soup 
without bone or meat (| lb. of peas per quart) and \ lb. of bread. 

Peas : P. 21, C. 55-4, fat I'S per cent. 

Bread: |lb. = P. 15, C. 1162, fat 2, in grammes (not per cent.). 

The total proteid = 386 grammes, the total fat=4 grammes, and the total 
Calories = 987-5. 

From this meal he gets 59 per cent, of the total proteid required and over 
56 per cent, of the total calories required. 

Third Tneal. Suppose, before leaving school, he gets \ lb. of bread and 1 oz. 
margarine, he gets 15 grammes of proteid and 804'6 Calories. 

By these means he will have got a practically complete diet, though one 
poor in fats. 

It is evident that, if it is desired to give a sufficient amount of food, an 
arrangement must be made to supply breakfast, dinner, and a sort of tea, but 
that one good meal in the middle of the day will go far. It is further evident, 
on grounds of economy and for educational purposes, that the Educational 
Authority should cook the meals. 

In providing the means of cooking, regard should, of course, be had to the 
habits of the people, and the cooking appliances should approximate as nearly 
as possible to those which they are accustomed to and can afford, except that 
cheap and necessary additions may be made, such as a pan-steamer. 



V. SUMMARY AND ENLARGEMENT. 

1. It is of supreme importance for the welfare of the nation that the children 
should be adequately fed, so as to develop, as far as heredity and environment 
will permit, sound minds in sound bodies. 

2. It is the duty of parents to provide adequately for their offspring, and 



FEEDING OF THE YOUNG 73 

this duty tkey should not be relieved of further than is imperatively demanded 
in the interests of the State. 

3. There is a great surplus of unskilled labour, and the wages of unskilled 
labour are thus depressed to such a point that, in a high percentage of instances, 
say 5 to 10 per cent., it is impossible for the parents continuously to provide 
for their children. It has been suggested that a minimum wage of 25s. per 
week for an unskilled labourer should be provided. The proposal is 
impracticable, and it is not certain that if it were practicable the result would 
not be to lead to increased waste. 

4. If, however, children during school life were adequately fed so that they 
could profitably receive instruction, and if that instruction were such as to 
educate them, as far as practicable, so as to make them fit for skilled work, 
wages would be more equalised, and a higher standard of living would result. 

5. There are at present various sources of enormous waste going on, of 
which two stand out very clearly : —(a) Drink. If the amount of alcohol 
consumed in this country could be diverted to the feeding of children it would 
maintain 20,000,000 in food, and if reckoned only as beer and spirits it would 
maintain 11,000,000, at a charge of 6d. per day, which would be an ample 
allowance. It may be said broadly, therefore, that the amount of alcohol 
consumed is the chief cause of deficiency of food for the young. The remedy 
is bound to be slow, and a long process of education is required. (6) But a 
great waste also occurs from want of knowledge on the part of mothers of how 
economically to select, buy and prepare food. This knowledge should be 
imparted in the schools. In association with this is the waste due to want 
of knowledge of the elementary principles of health in relation to breathing, 
clothing, exercise, cleanliness, and so forth. 

6. The Education Authority possesses machinery which, when improved 
and extended, will enable them to detect illness and innutrition amongst 
children, and to apply remedies. 

7. Teachers should be trained to look after the physical conditions as well 
as after the mental instruction of their scholars, and that training should be 
practical. 

8. Legislation is required enabling the Educational Authority to enforce 
the provision of sufficient food and the maintenance of cleanliness in school 
children by parents. 

9. The Educational Authority should also be empowered to obtain from 
the rates sufficient provision for the free feeding of children under certain 
definite conditions. In all schools kitchens should be provided for instruction 
in the elements of cooking. 

10. In all schools children should be weighed and their height measured 
once a term, and a record should be kept of the age, height and weight. 
By this means it would be possible to gauge the condition of the children, 
both collectively and individually. These observations might usefully be made 
more frequently in cases where a deficiency of nutriment or disease was 
suspected. 



74 NIVEN 

11. A prolonged and practical course of domestic economy and hygiene 
should be compulsory for girls. It should include cooking, construction and 
criticism of diets, management and feeding of infants, methods of cleanliness, 
sewing, mending and washing. I am fully aware of the excellent work which 
has been done by the Education Authority in their Evening Continuation 
Classes, and which is already bearing fruit. But, in my opinion, such 
instruction should be a necessary part of education. 

12. The poorer population generally should be instructed as to the diet 
requisite and the means by which it may be most cheaply obtained. 



Works consulted : 

" Report of the Royal Coinmission on Physical Training " (Scotland). 

Hutchinson on " Dietetics." 

" Poverty : "A Study of Town Life." Rowntree. 

" Health in the Nursery." Ashby. 

"School Diet." Dukes. 



The Role of ''Missed" Cases in the 
Spread of Infectious Diseases. 



BY 

ARTHUR NEWSHOLME, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Medical Officer oj Health of Brighton. 



The Role of ''Missed" Cases in the Spread of 
Infectious Diseases. 

Introduction. 

The subject of my address is one with which all Medical Officers of Health are 
familiar. We can all adduce numerous instances in which preventive 
measures against the spread of infection have been rendered partially futile 
owing to the failure on someone's part to recognize disease. I should not, 
therefore, have ventured to address you on this subject, did I not increasingly 
perceive that the importance of this cause of partial or complete failure in 
preventive measures is being constantly overlooked or under-estimated; and 
that neglect to look for slight cases of infectious disease and for microbe-bearers 
who may appear to be in good health, is responsible for a very large share of 
our failures to preventing the spread of disease. 

Preliminary Remarks. I shall deal more particularly with two 
such common diseases as Scarlet Fever and Diphtheria, in which this lesson 
is pre-eminently important, though I may, if time permits, give similar 
instances from experience in Small-pox and Enteric Fever. I do not propose 
to discuss the differential diagnosis of each of the diseases dealt with, nor to 
attempt to give special hints as to diagnosis. We have doubtless all learnt 
in this regard that the only safe rule is to use every available aid to diagnosis, 
whether clinical, bacteriological or other, and to attach as great importance 
to the history of the mode of onset and of possible exposure to infection as 
to the actual symptoms when the patient is examined. 

The possibilities of missed or unsuspected cases may be better understood 
Jby considering them in relation to the various stages of an infectious disease 
after the reception of infection. 

Latent Period as Disting^uished from Incubation Period. 

We are accustomed to speak of 1st an incubation period, and 2nd a period of 
actual symptoms, the latter alone being regarded as infectious. This, although 
usually true, is not always so, and our conceptions on this subject, particularly 
in regard to scarlet fever and diphtheria, need modification. Some years ago 
Mr. F. Vaclier read a paper* in which considerations were advanced in favour 
of the view that an infectious disease may be communicable in the incubation 
period. The apparent discrepancy between this opinion and the ordinary 
opinion which, in the majority of instances, accords better with experience, 
can, I think, be reconciled if we divide the period between the reception of 
infection and the development of symptoms into two : — 

(1) A latent 'period or period of " latent microbism " ; and 

(2) A period of true incubation, during which the vital changes resulting 

in the first symptoms of the particular disease are progressing. 

'The Duration of the Latent Period .... of the Exanthemata," by F. Vacher, F.R.C.S. 
(North- Western Association, Medical Officers of Health, June, 1884). 



« < 



78 NEWSHOLME 

Instances whicli, I believe, illustrate the above distinction are given in 
Appendix A; and here the general remark may be made that illustrative cases 
are throughout given in Appendices, in order that the general argument of my 
paper may not be lost in detail. 

It may be objected that these were instances (a) of protracted true 
incubation, or (6) of infection from the same source as supplied the first 
case in each household, or (c) that there had been some failure in 
disinfection. There was every reason for deciding against the last supposi- 
tion; the second supposition was eliminated so far as possible in each 
instance; and, in regard to {a), it appears to be more reasonable to 
suppose that in each instance the patient was a mechanical " carrier " of 
infection on or in his mucous membranes for some days or even weeks, rather 
than that the true incubation period varies so enormously as these cases would 
appear to suggest. The possibilities of fresh external infection or of failure of 
disinfection can seldom be eliminated with absolute certainty; but in my 
opinion we have to deal in most of these instances either with instances of 
protracted true incubation of infection, or a period in which the prospective 
patient is a mere mechanical " carrier " of infection on or in his mucous 
membranes for some days or even weeks before true incubation begins, this 
being, in my opinion, the more probable supposition. If this be so, we may 
suppose that stray diphtheria bacilli or scarlatinal germs are present in the 
mucous membrane of the naso-pharynx, these " taking root," so to speak, under 
the influence of a slight catarrh or other influence lowering vital resistance. 

In some instances the latently microbic person never becomes ill, so far as 
can be ascertained, and yet he may cause illness in others. This is shown for 
diphtheria in the illustrations given in Appendix B. 

There is no reason to suppose that the same is not true for scarlet fever, 
though the possibility of infection by mucus containing stray scarlatinal germs 
cannot at present be certified. It is probable that in certain instances the 
period of latency may overlap into the period of incubation, which would explain 
the cases in which infection has occasionally appeared to be produced during 
the incubative period of disease. 

Infection in Period of invasion. The amount of spread of 
infection under the above conditions is relatively small when compared with 
that occurring during the period of invasion of infectious diseases. The 
number of cases which at this stage are temporarily " missed " is very large, 
and most infectious diseases are specially infectious at this stage. The symptoms 
at this stage are commonly not characteristic ; the disrepute to the family 
practitioner from a mistake, and the desirability of caution are to him so 
obvious, that we cannot be surprised, however much we may regret it, when 
diagnosis and notification are postponed until the case has been watched. Were 
it a universal law of medical ethics that precautionary measures of isolation 
should be urged on the family while the symptoms are maturing, no great 
objection could be taken to this course ; but unhappily this is not so in most 
instances. 

Although it is widely believed, both by doctors and the public, that 
infectious diseases are oiily infectious to a slight extent at this stage, there can 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 79 

be little doubt that both scarlet fever and diphtheria are, from the onset, 
intensely infectious, more so than at later stages of the disease. Of 38 cases of 
scarlet fever investigated by me, in which secondary cases subsequently 
occurred in the same family, 2 were at the end of one day, 6 at the end of two 
days, 3 at the end of four days, 6 after five to seven days, 4 in the second week, 
8 in the third week, and 9 later. Thus, in this experience 45 per cent, of all 
the secondary cases occurred within a week of the first case ; and it is clear, 
that if this be regarded as a fair sample of the experience of others, nearly 
half the secondary cases of scarlet fever have been produced before effective 
isolation, whether at home or in hospital has been seriously attempted. 

After the period of invasion we arrive at the stage at which the ordinary 
symptoms, such as rash in scarlet fever and membranous exudate in diphtheria 
usually appear. In not a few instances, however, the classical symptoms do 
not appear or are overlooked. Ordinary overlooked cases I do not propose 
specially to discuss. They are instances of careless diagnosis. I am chiefly 
concerned with cases in which characteristic symptoms do not appear, as in 
scarlet fever or smallpox without rash and diphtheria without membranous 
exudate. The consideration of such cases is of the essence of my subject. 

Professor Theobald Smith has suggested a formula which enables us to 
consider this question with an approach to exactitude. Thus if D = disease, 
M = the micro-organism, which causes it, and 11 = the vital resistance of the 
person attacked 

Then J) = ^ 

Dr. W. T. Sedgwick has extended the formula as follows: — 

If N = number of micro-organisms, and V = their virulence 

Then D = M^ 
K 

Missed Cases in Tuberculosis. Sir Dyce Duckworth, in an 
address to the Liverpool Medical Institution, in 1901, on " The Personal Factor 
in Tuberculosis," has reminded us that in considering the two pathogenic 
factors of host and infecting parasite, the younger generation of pathologists 
are apt " to reckon without their host." This is a useful illustration and 
enables me to take tuberculosis as an example of the importance of " missed " 
cases in spreading disease. A large proportion of the population are doubtless 
infected by tuberculosis. Of those infected, many are able at once to destroy 
the invading tubercle bacilli. R is very potent, or being less potent, N is 
limited, or V is attenuated. Many others harbour the bacilli, become the 
victims of a small patch of disease, which, when the patient subsequently dies 
of another disease, is discovered in the mortuary. Here II has operated though 
tardily, helped or not helped by attenuated V or fewness of N. We need not 
discuss the fully-developed disease ; but the second series of cases are of the 
utmost importance from the view-point of preventive medicine. Before the 



80 NEWSHOLME 

disease becomes quiescent, tlie potentiality for spreading infection of the 
patients suffering from slight tuberculosis has been very considerable, and no 
sell erne for preventing the spread of tuberculosis can be considered to approach 
completeness which does not lay down as a medical axiom that every patient 
with a troublesome cough should, even in the absence of physical signs of 
phthisis, have his sputum examined and rigid precautions taken in regard to it. 

Scarlet Fever Without Rash. Returning to the acute infec- 
tions, I do not propose to attempt an account of cases of scarlet fever in which 
infection has been spread by atypical cases; but in the Journal of Hygiene* I 
have described a scarlatinal outbreak, the majority of patients in this outbreak 
not showing a rash, but only a severe sore throat. We have then to bear in 
mind that while we are isolating patients with fully developed attacks of scarlet 
fever in hospital, other members of the same family occasionally are keeping 
alive the infection in what may appear to be an innocent catarrhal condition of 
the mucous membrane of the naso-pharynx. 

Small-pox Without Rash. The case given in Appendix C illustrates 
the possibility of spread of infection by abortive attacks of small-pox. It 
further shows that the very success attending vaccination may, unless the 
utmost vigilance be exercised, lead to an occasional though rare failure of 
preventive measures. We are familiar with this risk in Varioloid cum eruptione. 
It must also be noted for Varioloid sine eruptione. The three cases given in 
Appendix C, whose temperature charts are shown, would probably have been 
overlooked had not the entire family of which they were members been taken 
into a quarantine ward for observation, and might then have caused further 
cases of small-pox. 

Missed Cases of Diphtheria. Diphtheria is, however, the disease 
in which we have the most exact data as to " missed " cases, and the part 
they play in spreading infection. It is quite clear that in this disease, as in 
tuberculosis, the soil is of equal importance with the seed, and that only a 
relatively small proportion of those receiving infection actually develope disease 
to a recognizable extent, some not at all. Whether variations in N or in Y or 
in R, or various combinations of these three factors are the cause of the failure 
of the contagion to take root or to grow sufficiently to produce recognizable 
results, it appears to me that these unrecognized and often unrecognizable cases 
are a frequent means of spreading infection. 

Diphtheria Without Exudate. Diphtheria without exudate or 
with overlooked exudate is an extremely common means of spreading diphtheria, 
and I regard the instances given in Appendix D as illustrations of the necessity 
of the axiom which I would venture to formulate that every sore throat sJiould 
be regarded as possible diphtheria until it is proved not to he so. This appears 

♦Vol. II., No. 2, p. 150. 



I 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 81 

fairly obvious, but is so frequently disregarded, tbat it is necessary to state 
instances in some detail. In Appendix D [a) are summarised first a number of 
cases missed by parents, no blame in most instances attaching to them, as the 
symptoms were very slight. In some of these doubtless membranous exudate 
was overlooked, in others this may have been absent. In Appendix D [b) are 
given instances of cases missed by the doctor, and in Appendix D (c) I give an 
instance of a case overlooked in my own department, although carefully in- 
vestigated at the time, except that unfortunately no swab was taken from G.Y., 
a doctor being at the time in attendance, and the symptoms, enlarged post- 
cervical glands, etc., being regarded as suflficiently explained by the eczema 
capitis. 

In nearly all the instances given in Appendix D the missed cases had 
symptoms of some degree, possibly slight and transient. It is probable that 
such cases are a much more frequent means of spreading infection than mere 
" carrier " cases. In these slight unrecognized cases the possibility of diagnosis 
depends on a careful investigation of the history of each case, the association 
of the case with more typical cases in the same household or school, the 
repeated use of bacteriological aids to diagnosis, and the presumption on the 
side of diphtheria which I have ventured to suggest should always be enter- 
tained. 

** Carrier" Ca.ses. There remain, however, certain cases in which 
so far as can be ascertained no symptoms whatever have occurred. In some of 
the cases under this head given in Appendix E, cases with slight symptoms are 
mixed up with cases which apparently had no symptoms (" carrier " cases). 

The instances given in Appendix D and E sufficiently emphasize the fact 
that the M.O.H. who awaits notification certificates and secures isolation of 
notified cases and subsequent disinfection has not exhausted the possibilities of 
preventing the spread of infection. Even when more minute investigation is 
made, and " missed " cases are looked for, our network of preventive measures 
is still too coarse to prevent the overlooking of a certain proportion of cases; 
and it is only by repeated visits to infected houses, by complete and active 
co-operation between the family practitioner and the Medical Officer of Health, 
and between these and the head of the household, that we can hope to bring our 
preventive measures nearer to perfection. 

Limits of Utiiity of Bacteriologry. I do not propose to give 

instances on the same lines relating to scarlet fever and enteric fever, but such 
instances will occur to many of you. In diphtheria we are fortunately aided 
by bacteriological methods of diagnosis. It is necessary to note, however, tliat 
this means of diagnosis may occasionally, when misused, become an aid to the 
spread of infection. The following underscored statement is attached to every 
certificate sent out from my laboratory giving the result of an examination of 
a " swab." 

" 7n all instances in which the Diphtheria Bacillus is not found, its absence 
docs not imply that the case is not Diphtheria. This must be decided on clinical 



82 NEWSHOLME 

grounds, Or a further speciTnen sent. Three consecutive failures to find the 
Diphtheria Bacillus are required before any importance can be attached to 
negative results." 

And yet occasionally one meets with instances in which the doctor is stated to 
have informed the patient that " the test shows there is no diphtheria," and 
the patient, on the strength of this statement, is released from isolation. 

If the bacteriological test is employed to relieve the doctor from the onus 
of diagnosis in fairly characteristic clinical cases of diphtheria, to that extent 
it is harmful, because it leads to twenty-four hours' delay in treatment by 
antitoxic serum, and may, if a negative result be obtained, mean a dangerous 
withholding of specific treatment. The true scope of bacteriological diagnosis 
is for atypical cases which would otherwise be missed ; and we cannot afford to 
displace clinical diagnosis from its first and most important position. 

When a case of an infectious disease is recognised, attempt is made at isola- 
tion, either at home or in hospital, until the period of infection has passed. 
The old idea that this period can be strictly delimited is in the light of modern 
bacteriology necessarily doomed. There can be no arbitrary line between the 
infectious and post-infectious period. The magical period of six weeks for 
scarlet fever has no exact correspondence with facts : it may be three or even 
thirty weeks in exceptional cases. Each case must be decided on its merits, 
and we are hampered in scarlet fever by the lack of an exact bacteriological 
diagnosis. Even in diphtheria, in which this aid is available and most valuable, 
we have to remember the limitations of the bacteriological test. We cannot 
too often endeavour to impress on medical practitioners the importance of the 
following rule : If diphtheria bacilli are found in a case ivith any catarrhal 
abnormal condition of the throat or nose the evidence of diphtheria must be 
regarded as indubitable ; but if diphtheria bacilli are not found, the onus of 
diagnosis still rests on the practitioner ; and the negative result, unless several 
times repeated, must not enter into the judgment. 

I have already alluded to the erroneous deductions frequently drawn from 
negative swabs. Of 342 consecutive cases admitted to our isolation hospital, 
26 were bacteriological cases in which no evidence of disease, apart from the 
laboratory test, was present except in some instances slight catarrhal symptoms ; 
51 cases were apparently not diphtheria, and 10 cases were clinically diphtheria 
although they were repeatedly examined without success for diphtheria bacilli 
(each case at least five times). 

Recurrence of Infection in Diplitheria. The occasional 
recurrence of infection in cases of diphtheria is a still more important illustra- 
tion of the limitations of negative bacteriological examinations. The most 
remarkable instance of this with which I am acquainted is the following. 
There are clearly possibilities of other overlooked sources of infection, but I am 
myself inclined to take the view that the chain of events shown in the following 
chart, and given more fully in Appendix F, corresponds to the facts. If so it 
illustrates very forcibly the limitations of negative bacteriological results. 



a 
o 

be 73 
• 3 « 
■S<J OJ 
a; 

CO ^-c p . 






O -P tn o "^ 









M 



O 



03 




02 03 









^ Z 



o 



o 
o 



nd 



K 



^ • Oh 03 

02 O 



Si. 



^ 
&1 



03 r^ 
.-H «J 

03 ^O 



^ c « 



03 






c4 



CO p] 









=0 



• o ^ 
+-> 







CO 

-■ I 

-p <?q ._^ 8 

C/2 . as ^ 
_. w ec 

eo 0.0-. « 
• rt ^ 

-je* Q 'o S 
8^ ^ o -< 

QG CO Si. 



03 



^3 



"—I 






^ <V 



m 



PQ rc: 



fOo <U 03 

eg HH .^ ^j 

1^ -^ ■" -^ 

o 03 g. bX) 



o 



o 

l-H o 



o 



O iS 



o 






V 



3 
o 

o3 ^«i 



a. 



d fiH 



00 . fe o 



CO 

00 
o fe 



:2'!m 



- a 



^ o 



+J fl 



CO 



-co 

d 



1 03 

GO 

'*^'o 

• ^ s 

<U O ..^ 

?5 »-' e 

^ eo 'r 

'^'^ J 





.53 


^-s 


?: 


a< 


lU 


5 


-< 


0) 


^" 


CI 






03 



w 





00 




•Ki 


5 










1— 1 




s 


^ 








pi 








J2 
















<v 


(m' 


5^ 


00 
I— 1 

o 


08 




^0 


o 






?4. 


o" 


o. 




, V 


o" 




^ 


rO 






o. 


€* 


I— ( 


5 


c8 




-lj 


5 


CO 

o 


^ 




O. 


-M 


.Q 




CO 

o 


w 


1 


CO 


5 


bo w 
O '^ 



fa 



pq 



84 NEWSHOLME 

This case illustrates also a very important variety of missed cases — those 
which have been released from isolation. It may appear to be stretching the 
scope of a paper under the present title to introduce the subject of " return 
cases," but the significance of these must be faced, if every possibility of missed 
infection is to be investigated. If the above sequence of events is correctly 
indicated, a diphtheria patient may firstly, three weeks after release from 
isolation, and secondly, 146 days after release from isolation, cause small out- 
breaks of the same disease. Of course there may have been other overlooked 
sources of infection, though these were carefully and unsuccessfully sought for. 
The association of B.G. with the events following her return to school is 
confirmed by the fact that on each occasion the outbreak ceased when she was 
again excluded. A second instance of the same kind is given in Appendix F, 
and in this instance the recurrence of infection was proved by the detection of 
diphtheria bacilli. 

"Return" Infection not a Hospital Phenonnenon in 

Diphtheria. In diphtheria such return or persistence of infection is not 
a hospital phenomenon, whatever it may be in scarlet fever. I have in my note- 
books numerous instances of re-infection of others after release of diphtheria 
patients from home isolation ; and the fact is so well known that it need not be 
laboured. If not a hospital phenomenon in diphtheria, why is it to be regarded 
as such in scarlet fever? During 1903, four "return cases" of scarlet fever 
have occurred in my local experience, two in cases in the best circumstances 
treated at home, and two in hospital experience. There is, in my judgment, no 
justification in fact for the opinion so frequently expressed that increased and 
protracted infectivity is a consequence of aggregation of cases in hospital. 
Such a theory is analogous to that which assumes that when more than say 
twenty cases of acute small-pox are aggregated in a small-pox hospital aerial 
convection of infection is rendered increasingly possible. It is a theory to 
support a theory, and so in the main is the theory of hospital origin of " return 
cases." My own views are expressed in the following extract from my annual 
report for 1902, and I contend that these views are more consistent with the 
known facts as to the natural history of these two diseases than what we may 
describe as the hospitalism theory. 

"It is probable that, although in a certain proportion of these "return cases" 
the patient may serve merely as a carrier in his secretions of infection from the 
ward, in the majority of instances when " return " cases occur he is at the time 
of discharge, and for some time afterwards, an active incubator of scarlet fever 
organisms in his throat and nose. On this point I would lay stress on the 
analogy between diphtheria and scarlet fever. In diphtheria it is a well-known 
fact, irrespective of whether the patients are treated in hospital or at home, 
that a certain number remain infectious for protracted periods, and in these 
cases there is usually rhinorrhoea. In such chronic cases the infection may 
persist for three or more months. What occurs in diphtheria almost certainly 
occurs in scarlet fever in a small proportion of the total cases; and in scarlet 
fever, as in diphtheria, it is not, in my opinion, as a rule a question of hospital 
influence, but of the natural history of the disease. 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 85 

" These clironic cases of scarlet fever and diphtheria represent sports of the 
disease. The great difficulty in scarlet fever is that, unlike diphtheria, one has 
at present no trustworthy bacteriological test when the patient is discharged; 
hence the greater difficulty in controlling " return " cases in scarlet fever than 
in diphtheria." 

It may be added that such prolonged infectivity in a certain proportion of 
cases of scarlet fever and diphtheria is consistent with what we know of the 
occasional prolonged continuance of infection in enteric fever. Several outbreaks 
of enteric fever in this country have been traced to enteric patients who were 
convalescent before leaving South Africa for home. We know again that 
typhoid bacilli may persist for many months in the gall bladder, etc * 

Relapses and "Missed" Cases. I can only briefly allude to 

relapses as an occasional " missed " cause of spread of infection. Such definite 
relapses not infrequently occur near the end of the period of isolation in these 
diseases, and they are known in home as well as in hospital treatment. I 
described in the British Medical Journal for Oct. 10th, 1896, a case of relapse of 
small-pox occurring after a patient had left a metropolitan small-pox hospital, 
where he had suffered from an undoubted attack of small-pox. The relapse was 
mistaken for chicken-pox and gave rise to a small outbreak of small-pox. I have 
only been able to find three or four similar cases in medical literature. 

Chronic Infection of Ear Dischargees. Before concluding my 

imperfect review of " missed " cases of infection, a number of instances in 
which the only bacteriological evidence of diphtheria was in ear discharges 
from which the patients were suffering may be mentioned. In some instances 
such an ear discharge had been the only obvious evidence of disease. See 
Appendix G. 

► The above cases illustrate the important fact that we have to deal not only 
with cases never recognised which ought to have been recognized, with other 
cases which could only have been recognized by calling in the aid not only 
of bacteriology but of complete information as to the history and environment 
of the patient, but also with cases which may have been under our own care, 
whether isolated at home or in hospital, which continue to be infections or 
resume infection after being released from isolation. 

We come to consider in the last place what remedies are practicable for 
the evils of which I have given numerous examples. By all means let us 
reform our isolation hospital administration and make it as perfect as possible. 
This hospital isolation is, in my opinion, a most potent means of preventing 
the spread of infection; the occasional failures to prevent the recurrence of 
infection after cessation of isolation, and the still more frequent failures which 
have nothing to do with hospital isolation, form a deeper and more extensive 
evil. In part they are inherent in the extremely variable manifestations of 
each infectious disease. In part they might be obviated by improved measures, 
which I can, in conclusion, only briefly indicate. 

*This subject is treated more fully in a paper read hy the writer before the Royal Medico- 
Chirurgical Society, June 14th, 1904, and published in the Transactions of the Society. 



86 NEWSHULME 

Difficulties of DiagrnosiS. Our difficulties come under three 
heads. These are first the difficulties of diagnosis. How are we to aid and 
accelerate diagnosis? How are we to persuade parents of the necessity of 
having a doctor for what may appear to be a trifling ailment ? * I have elsewhere 
advocated a system of free medical diagnosis,* and no complete remedy appears 
practicable apart from a much more complete use of medical men in relation to 
public health. 

Difficulties of Notification. There are secondly the difficulties 
of notification. Notification by the householder is a dead letter, and must 
remain so, until free medical diagnosis is given and the last excuse for neglect 
is thus removed. Notification by the doctor is commonly belated, and will 
remain so, until or unless the notification of doubtful cases is rendered obliga- 
tory. There is precedent for the adoption of this line of action. In fact a step 
in this direction has been already taken by the legislature. Under the 
Infectious Disease Notification Act the practitioner is required to notify a case 
" as soon as he becomes aware." Under the Factory and Workshops Act, 1901, 
he must notify patients " whom he believes " to be suffering from lead, arsenic, 
or mercury poisoning or anthrax. Farmers are required to notify each 
suspected case of glanders or foot and mouth disease. In Sydney and the whole 
of New South Wales the practitioner must notify every case of small-pox and 
every disease which may reasonably be suspected of being small-pox. In the 
New Zealand Public Health Act of 1900 the same obligation is extended to 
other infectious diseases, the practitioner being under an obligation to notify 
the case of " any person found to be sick of any infectious disease, or of any 
sickness the symptoms of which raise a reasonable suspicion that it may be an 
infectious disease." 

But if such notification of doubtful cases is to be enforced, the responsibility 
of the final diagnosis must be partially placed on the shoulders of the Medical 
Officer of Health; and this implies a large addition to the medical portion of 
the public health service. That such an addition is required has long been my 
opinion; and I should welcome the day when candidates were only permitted 
to take the D.P.H. after having worked day by day for a year under a Medical 
Officer of Health. To give every possible help to the medical practitioner in 
the diagnosis of infectious diseases is the natural corollary of the fact that we 
have minimised his opportunities of obtaining experience in regard to them. 

Difficulties of Supervision. There are thirdly, difficulties of 
supervision and examination. A complete system of preventive measures 
implies a complete list of contacts, and the power, where necessary, of examining 
these, 

Sugrgrested Remedies. The remedies are : — 

1. The universal adoption of bacteriological aids to diagnosis, negative 
results being discounted. 



* British Medical Journal, Portsmouth Meeting. 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 87 

2. The experimental adoption of a system of free medical diagnosis in cases 
of sore throat. 

3. The tentative notification of all cases suspected to be infectious, a fee 
of Is. being given for such notification, a further fee being given if the 
diagnosis is confirmed. 

4. The appointment of Assistant Medical Officers of Health in large districts 
to visit doubtful cases. 

5. Statutory power to be given to examine contacts. 

6. A strict supervision to be kept on all past patients in the post-isolation 
period, whether this has been at home or in hospital. 

This list is obviously incomplete, but a second lecture would be necessary 
for anything more than a passing indication of remedies. 

My sketch of this difficult subject would be incomplete and lacking in 
perspective, were I to give the impression that preventive measures hitherto 
employed have been a failure. Where relative incidence of disease can be tested 
this is far from being the case. Scarlet fever is, in recent epidemics, not only 
less fatal but also less prevalent than formerly,* The same is almost certainly 
true of diphtheria. Enteric fever and tuberculosis notwithstanding failures in 
diagnosis are both rapidly declining. Small-pox, in which the further aid of 
vaccination is available, can be rigidly controlled when desired. The danger 
of dealing solely with one aspect of the case, as in the present paper, is that the 
importance of the one missing measure is magnified, and the ninety-nine 
instances in which preventive measures have not gone astray are apt to be over- 
looked. How to deal with the exceptional " missed " cases, is, however, a most 
pressing problem in preventive medicine, and we cannot hope for more than 
relative success until and unless special efforts are made in this direction. 



APPENDIX A. 
CASES OF PROBABLE LATENT MICROBISM. 

1. Scarlet Fever. 

First instance. — G.R., set. 5, failed with scarlet fever on December 6th, removed 
to hospital 8th. F.R., set. 7, failed with scarlet fever December 25th, removed 
December 26th. K.R., set. 4, failed January 7th. There were no other children 
in this house. Father and mother had no sore throat or other symptoms. 
Thus secondary cases occurred at intervals of 18 and 14 days respectively. No 
outside infection after the first case. Disinfection very thorough. 

Second instance. — B.C., set. 5, failed with scarlet fever on September 24th, 
admitted to hospital September 29th. H.C., set. 4, failed with scarlet fever 
October 13th. Is stated to have " had a cold " all the time since the removal 
of B.C. When seen by me on September 30th had a " stuffy nose." A brother, 

*"The Epidemiology of Scarlet Fever, etc." By A. Newsholme. 
Trans. Epidern. Society, Yol. xx., p. 59. 



88 NEWSHOLME 

set 8, remained well; father and mother same. Interval of 15 days between 
the two cases. Disinfection thorough. 

Thirdinstance.- — O.D., set. 9, failed with scarlet fever September 21st, admitted 
to hospital September 23th. B.D., aet. 6, failed with scarlet fever October 6th, 
thirteen days interval. In this and the above cases, no evidence of further 
outside infection. B.D. stated to be " poorly " when O.D. was removed. 

2. Diphtheria. 

Fourth instance. — W.K., set. 6, failed with diphtheria March 13th, admitted to 
hospital March 16th. Was still there when a brother, U.K., set. 3, failed with 
diphtheria on April 14th. No history of intervening cases in the household 
consisting of mother and father, a girl set. 11, and the above patient. No outside 
fresh infection discovered. 



APPENDIX B. 
INSTANCES OF TEUE " CAERIEE " CASES. 

First instance. — During the course of an outbreak of diphtheria in a particular 
school, M.W., a girl aged 11, was attending Standard III. She sat next M.M., 
who attended school for several days while suffering from unrecognised 
diphtheria up to and including the 20th October. On 23rd October a young 
man lodger at M.W.'s home failed with diphtheria. He only arrived in 
Brighton on the 16th October, and had lodged since his arrival in this house 
with five other young men. He only had one meal in the house, viz., breakfast 
brought up to his bedroom. This was brought up by M.W. and by her older 
sister. None of the other lodgers had diphtheria, and of the large family to 
which M.W. belonged (father and mother and eight children varying in age 
from 2 months to 12 years) all remained apparently well. 

For further illustrations of " carrier " cases, see under Appendix E. 



c 
a 

3 
u 

m 



3 
O 
J3 



u 
X 



V) 

a> 

M 

O 

be 

c 

*i 

o 

ti] X 

0^ - 

<? 
E 



4) 

u 
jQ 

■*-» 
3 

o 



E 

CO 

u. 







bCi 

'S 

<v 
> 

a o 
t— 1 


0) 

c 
o 

o 
-a 

'o 

1— ( 


r 


•N 


3ut on May 17, each 

d headache and high 

in two days were 


r Remaining well. 


U) 
Besult. 


:; 


r 


:; 


- 


eared, 
)oys ha 
e, and 
again. 


(0 

Nature of 
Attack. 


Discrete 
(numerous 
pustules) 


Slight (20 

to 30 
pustules) 


Very slight 
(a dozen 
pimples) 




None ever app 
of these t 
temperatur 
quite well 


ih) 

Date of 
appear- 
ance of 
Small 
Pox 
Rash. 




On 


ON 

M 


On 




•6 

> 


(3) 
More 
than 
3 days 
after 
being 
exposed 

to 
infection. 


> 


On 


On 




May 10 
May 9 
May 17 


On 

: >N 

: rt 


(2) 

Within 
3 days 
after 
being 
exposed 

to 
infection. 


> 




(1) 

Before 

being 

exposed 

to 
infection. 


> 


. . . J^ : 

: : : : : : ,i> os : 


■6 


(3) 
More 
than 
3 days 
after 
being 
exposed 

to 
infection. 








On 






(2) 

Within 

3 days 

after 

being 

exposed 

to 
infection. 






(1) 

Before 

being 
exposed 

to 
infection. 


o 


- 


- 







- = 


(e) 

Non- 
infected 
members 
of same 
house- 
hold. 










»- On 


aged 4 
Boy 

aged 1 4 
Girl 

aged 5 


(rf) 
Members 
of other 
house- 
holds in- 
fected by 
Patients 

in 
Columns 
b and c. 






(c) 

Members 
of same 
lousehold 
infected 

by the 

First 
Patient. 






0^- 




1) 




s 


Patient 
introduc- 
ing the 
infection 
into the 
house. 




: 











90 



NEWSHOLME 



APPENDIX D. 

MISSED CASES. 

DiPHTiiEiiiA. — (a) Cases misse:I by parents. 

First instance. — The cook at 9 T. Road had a " very bad throat " three weeks 
before Christmas, 1901. Was very ill for a fortnight, but no doctor was called 
in. Nothing further happened until Easter, when, in the same house, M.D., 
set. 14, had a bad cold and sore throat with enlarged glands. No doctor. 
Diphtheria bacilli were found in her throat on June 12th, by which time she or 
other members of the same family had infected a number of children at a 
Kindergarten School. The following scheme gives the order of events. The 
first six are members of this particular household; all the other cases attended 
the above school. 



Cook 


9 T. Road 


Onset. 


Recognised 

as 




Christmas 


"Sore Throat" 


M. D., set. 14... 


do. 


Easter ... 


do. 


Evidence of diph. bacilli 


Nursemaid 


do. 


May 22... 


do. 


persisting 73 days later. 
Returned to Kindergar- 
ten School May 16 


E. D., at. 10... 


do. 


May 25... 


do. 


Away from School May 26 
to June 2. Returned 
June 3 


N. D, set. 5 ... 


do. 


May 26... 


« Cold " 




L. D., set. 7 ... 
N.Co., set. 14... 


do. 
39 F. Road 


June 6 ... 
June 5 ... 


"Diphtheria" 
do. 




M. H., set. 9 ... 


13 R. Road 


June 6 . . . 


do. 




E. W., set. 8 ... 


71 T. Street 


Jiine 7 ... 


do. 




T. T. set. 8 ... 


S. Road ... 


June 10... 


do. 





There were in the kindergarten class of the above school 21 children, of 
whom five, including one member of the infecting family, had diphtheria more 
or less lightly. Only two cases, including a member of the infecting family, 
occurred in the higher classes. In one member of the infecting family the 
presence of diphtheria bacilli, after a sore throat 73 days previously, was 
demonstrated. 

Second instance. — N.W., set. 3, failed with diphtheria October 20th. and was 
notified October 25th. J.W., set. 2, failed October 25th. and was notified 
October 27th. Inquiry into these cases led to the discovery that the brother 
G.W., set. 5, had come home from school with enlarged glands on October 7th, 
but no doctor was called in. Diphtheria bacilli were found in his throat on 
October 25th. 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 91 

Third instance. — F.T., set. 4, failed with diphtheria November 16th, hospital 
November 28th. I.T., set. 7, on November 8th had headache followed by nasal 
discharge. He continued to attend school until the 18th, and infected three 
other children in the same class, who failed two on November 14th and one on 
the 19th, Nasal swab from I.T. on November 19th showed diphtheria bacilli. 

Third instance. — D.B,, eet. 3, failed with diphtheria August 21st, admitted 
to hospital August 24th. W.B., set. 16, failed on August 26th, admitted to 
hospital August 26th. B.B., a boy set. 14, complained of " headache and cold " 
about August 1st. Diphtheria bacilli found in swab from his throat August 
25th. An infant aged 5 months, a boy aged 9, and a girl aged 7 remained well. 

Fourth instance. — D.E,., set. 8, was away from school January 6th with sore 
throat and headache. He was only absent from school on one day. On the 
11th his sister, C.H., set. 7, failed with diphtheria and was notified on the 14th. 
This led to a swab being taken from D.ll.'s throat, in which diphtheria bacilli 
were found. 

Fifth instance. — R.G., set. 8^^/i3years, failed with diphtheria June 16tli, 
admitted to hospital 19th. His sister, F.G., set. 4, attended school until June 
12th, and next day " began with a cold." A swab from her throat on June 20t]i 
and a second July 16th showed diphtheria bacilli. In this, as in other cases, 
there is the fallacy that she might have acquired diphtheria bacilli from her 
brother; but she was ailing before he was. 

Sixth instance. — G.J., set. 5, failed with diphtheria March 30th, had not 
been to school since the 18th March, admitted to hospital 1st April. He was 
the only child in this family, but in the same house lived another family having 
two children. Of these two, B.C., set. 7, attended a class of an infant school 
♦ which at that time was infected with diphtheria; last attendance on April 3rd, 
when the school was closed. Examined by me on 7tli April, she had some 
eczema naris, also conjunctivitis, but there was no history of sore throat. 
Negative swabs were obtained from both nose and throat. Her brother C.C, 
set. 5, examined same day, had enlarged cervical glands. No history of sore 
throat. Diphtheria bacilli in throat. He had not attended school since 
March 18th. The probable sequence of events in this family was that B.C. 
brought infection in an unrecognised form from school and gave it to G.J. 
and C.C. 

(6) Cases viissed by practitioner. 

First instance. — F.B.W., set. 2|, failed with diphtheria June 10th, notified 
by Dr. X and removed to hospital June 15th. No school attendance. The 
brother, B.W., set. 5, had a sore throat for which he was taken to Dr. X on 
6th June, having been ailing since 2nd June. A swab was taken from his 
throat on 17th June, no growth; swab on 23rd June, diphtheria bacilli present. 
Was this due to engrafting of diphtheria bacilli on a previously innocent sore 
throat? Almost certainly not. No source of infection to F.B.W. could be 
discovered except B.W. 



92 NEWSHOLME 

Second instance. — F.ll., set. l^^/iajear, had a "cold" on February 14th, 
followed by nasal discharge. She was seen by Dr. Y on 16th February. On 
the 12th March the child seemed worse, had difficulty in swallowing and 
regurgitation of food. Dr. Y. resumed attendance on the 17th, but did not 
notify the case until March 25th. Three days later he notified the case of G.E,., 
a brother, set. 2, who failed on the 27th. 

Third instance. — F.T., set. 5, attended an infected infants' school, last 
attendance February 9th. On this day he was hoarse; his mother thought he 
was choking and called in Dr. Z. Next day two doctors saw this child together. 
The mother states that he then had enlarged cervical glands and that there 
were white patches on the throat at the onset. The nature of his attack was 
not recognized by the medical attendant until two other children were infected. 
He was then admitted to hospital (February 20th) suffering from laryngeal and 
nasal diphtheria, for which tracheotomy was required. The attack proved fatal 
on 27th February. On the 12th February, N.T., set. 3, failed with diphtheria 
and was admitted to hospital on 17th February, and on the 18th a baby, aged 
10 months failed with diphtheria and was admitted on the 20th. 

(c) Case missed by M.O.H. 

On December 6th a letter was received from another M.O.H. stating that on 
December 4th G.Y., set. 20, of J., had been notified with diphtheria, and that 
on November 28th and 30th he slept at No. 174 X. Street, where his sweetheart's 
parents lived. His case was of a very severe type. Enquiries were at once 
made at this house by my assistant. It was found that there were living in this 
house Mr. and Mrs. G., their five children, and two unmarried sisters of Mrs. G. 
All these had been well, except O.G., set. 2\, who was being attended by the 
Dispensary Doctor for eczema capitis and enlarged post-cervical glands. No 
swab was then taken, but one on the 16th December gave a negative result. 
This boy will be further considered after the history of other members of the 
family has been given. On or about December 11th F.R., set. 20, the sister 
of G.Y.'s sweetheart, failed with diphtheria, and was removed to hospital on 
December 14th. Then G.R., set. 22 (G.Y.'s sweetheart) was swabbed and 
diphtheria bacilli found in her nasal secretion. She had two minute dots 
(? pent-up follicles) on her throat. Removed to hospital on December 16th. 
It transpired that while G.Y. was staying in this house the two sisters had slept 
together, and I leaned to the view that one sister had become a " carrier " of 
infection from the young man to the other sister, who developed diphtheria 
eleven days later. Subsequent events, however, put a different complexion on 
the matter. On January 5th, I received a letter from the same doctor who 
previously attended O.G. and who notified F.R., that O.G. was now suffering 
from what " looks as if it might be post-diphtheritic paralysis ; general weak- 
ness "difficulty in swallowing liquids, and no knee jerks." It is probable, 
therefore, that O.G. was the first case of diphtheria, and that although he was 
seen by two doctors, one of whom had the possibility of diphtheria before him, 
diphtheria was overlooked. 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 93 

APPENDIX E. 

FURTHER INSTANCES OF "CARRIER" CASES. 

First instance. — F.W., set. 6, attended until Marcli 13th a class of a school 
in which cases of diphtheria were occurring at the time. She was then kept at 
home because she had ringworm, but is stated to have had no cold or sore throat. 
On the 19th March her sister, E.W., set. 4^ years, failed with diphtheria. E.W. 
had not been attending school, and had been kept strictly indoors owing to a 
recent attack of chicken-pox. There was one other child in the house, a brother, 
aet. 7, who attended the same school as F.W., but in a class in which no cases 
of diphtheria had recently occurred. It may be argued that both brother and 
sister were infected from the clinical case E.W. This child, however, had been 
kept isolated for over three weeks, and I do not think it can be doubted that 
F.W. carried the infection from the school to E.W., although she was never ill. 

Second instance. — O.N., set. 3, failed with diphtheria 4th April, removed to 
hospital 9th April. Had not attended school, but two sisters had been attending 
the infected infant school mentioned above. N.N., set. 6, was said to have had 
a " cold," onset about 8th March. Had continued to attend school until April 
3rd. Negative swabs from her throat were obtained on 11th and 14th April. 
W.N., set. 5, had a " cold," onset about March 15tli, last attended school March 
18th. On April 11th diphtheria bacilli were found in her throat. A sister, 
B.N., ost. 10, was never ill, but on April 14th diphtheria bacilli were found in 
her throat. It is fairly clear that N.N. infected the three other children, one 
with typical, one with atypical diphtheria, and a third with apparently only a 
Jbacteriological infection. N.N. was continuing to attend school, along with 
two other unrecognised cases, and these three between them caused a serious 
school outbreak of diphtheria. 

Third instance. — B.N., set. 16, failed with diphtheria November 14th, 
admitted to hospital November 17th. There were in the same house five 
members of the same family, and a second family consisting of Mr. and Mrs. W. 
and baby. It was now found that E.N., aged 12, had had nasal discharge and 
sore throat beginning about November 1st. This was put down to a cold, as 
she always " had trouble with her nose." She was away from school from 
November 6th, returning November 15th to 17th. In the same class was a girl 
who was last at school on November 5th, and soon afterwards died of diphtheria. 
E.N. gave a positive swab (nasal) on November 19th and she went to the 
isolation hospital. Swabs were then taken from a brother aged 5 (negative) an 
older sister, set. 27, negative swab same date, and Mrs. W., wlio gave a positive 
swab on November 19th. With the exception of Mrs. W., who had been " rather 
poorly " none of these had any symptoms of illness. The interest of this group 
of cases is increased by the fact that E.N. had a definite attack of diphtheria in 
August of the year previous. 

See also under Appendix B. 



94 NEWSHOLME 

APPENDIX F. 
RECURRENT OR PROTRACTED INFECTION IN DIPHTHERIA. 

First instance. — B.G., aged 4, failed witli diphtheria on August 19th, 
admitted to hospital on the '5th. On admission, moderate exudate on tonsil. 
No diphtheria bacilli found. A second negative swab on the 26th. On 
September 5th Hof mann bacilli found ; on September 6th no diphtheria bacilli 
found. The child returned home on September 7th, directions being given that 
she was not to resume school attendance for six weeks from the following 
Monday. 

B.G. resumed attendance in the Babies' Class of School on September 24th, 
contrary to directions, the teacher conniving at this. This class and the Fourth 
Class of the same school have a common cloak-room. On September 26th 
W.M., aged 3, failed with diphtheria in the Babies' Class, and on October 3rd 
H.W., aged 5, failed with the same disease in the Fourth Class. Diphtheria 
bacilli were found in each of these. No actual contact between these children 
and B.G. could be proved. It was now discovered that B.G. had improperly 
resumed attendance at school. A swab was taken from her throat with a 
negative result. She was quite well, and had no nasal discharge. 

B.G. did not again attend school until January 25th of the following year, 
attending until February 5th. The following cases occurred in the same class 
at this school : — F.D., aged 3, onset February 2nd; O.S., aged 3, onset February 
9tli, and B.XJ., aged 4, onset February 6th. Diphtheria bacilli were found in 
each of these. No other likely sources of infection for the above children were 
•discovered except B.G., and no further cases occurred when B.G. was again 
excluded from school, except that as shown on the chart, p. 9, three secondary 
cases occurred in O.S.'s family. 

B.G.'s family consists of father and mother, boy aged 5, and a child aged 
2\ years. These have all remained well, except that the child aged 2\ had " a 
cold " on February 3rd, when a negative swab was obtained from him, and a 
negative swab once more from B.G. 

In the same house lives another family consisting of father and mother, a 
child aged 2, who had bronchitis near Christmas, and a boy, G.B., aged b\, 
who had " bronchitis " beginning about December 10th, had again a " cold on 
his chest " onset January 26th, nasal discharge beginning February 7th, seen 
by a doctor on February 10th, and notified as diphtheria the same day. No 
diphtheria bacilli were found in his nasal or throat secretions, although these 
were examined repeatedly after his admission to hospital. He was very pallid 
and a fortnight after admission developed a nasal voice. 

Second instance. — F.M., aged 10, failed with diphtheria on November 19tli, 
admitted to hospital on November 20th. Infected at school. Had pharyngeal 
diphtheria; no nasal discharge. Three consecutive negative swabs were 



"MISSED" CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 95 

obtained from her throat on December 14th, 15th, and 16th, and she was dis- 
charged on the 17th. 

In the same family were father and mother, and two sisters, aged 8 and 7, 
none of whom had diphtheria. The two sisters returned to school on December 
20th. The ex-patient returned to school on February 1st, six weeks after 
leaving hospital, in accordance with our usual procedure. 

F.S., who is in the same class with F.M. at school, failed with diphtheria on 
February 4th. No other cases occurred in this class, and no other source of 
infection for F.S.'s attack could be discovered. Suspicion being directed to 
F.M,. a swab was taken from her throat on February 8th, ivith a positive result. 
She was carefully examined, and found to have no nasal discharge, and had 
been quite well since returning home. Her two sisters have slept in the same 
bed with her since the week before Christmas. On February 10th, swabs were 
taken from the three sisters again, with a negative result in each case. On 
February 23rd F.M. again gave a positive swab, and on March 7th a negative 
swab. 



APPENDIX G. 

PROTRACTED INFECTION OF DIPHTHERIA IN EAR DISCHARGES. 

First instance, simulating a " return " case. — N.B., set. 5, failed with 
diphtheria on February 5th, admitted to hospital February lOtli, and discharged 
March 18th. She slept at home this night in a separate bed and next morning 
was taken to another town, returning home on March 28th. On the 25th March 
^.N., set. 2, a step-sister of the above, failed with diphtheria, and it was sus- 
pected that she might be a " return " case. The above dates, however, do not 
fit in with this supposition, and the following appears to be the probable source 
of K.N.'s infection. The baby brother of N.B., set. 9 months, began with dis- 
charging ear on or about February 24th, a fortnight after N.B.'s admission to 
hospital. When K.N. failed with diphtheria this baby's ear was examined, and 
a pure culture of diphtheria bacilli obtained by cultivation of the ear discharge 
on blood serum. 

Second instance. — K.S., set. 4, was infected with diphtheria at School, 

and failed on November 14th. He was admitted to hospital on November 15th, 
and discharged on December 21st, after three consecutive negative swabs from 
the throat. Immediately after K.S.'s admission to hospital the brother, D.S., 
set. 4, and sister, W.S., set. 1, were given prophylactic doses of antitoxic serum. 
At this time a swab from D.S.'s throat gave a negative result. K.S., while in 
hospital, had left otorrhoea, which began November 28th, and on December 11th 
had ceased. He had profuse nasal discharge on admission, but this had ceased 
when he went home. The otorrhoea returned after he came home. He occupied 
a separate bedroom, but played with D.S. and W.S. during the day. W.S, 



96 NEWSHOLME 

remained well, but on January 3rd, 14 days after K.S. came home, D.S. failed 
with diphtheria and was removed to hospital next day. K.S. was now re- 
examined and found to be anaemic, and still had left otorrhoea. A swab from 
this ear on January 5th showed diphtheria bacilli. 

Third instance. D.R., set. 1 year, failed with diphtheria on November 7th, 
admitted to hospital on November 18th with pharyngeal and nasal diphtheria. 
On November 28th right otorrhoea began; on December 9th there was double 
otorrhoea, and some evidence of pharyngeal paralysis. On 31st December a 
negative swab was obtained from the throat, but the discharge from both ears 
showed diphtheria bacilli. On January 5th throat and ear swabs all negative. 
On January 7th throat swab negative. January 9th throat swab negative, ear 
swab growth too scant for diagnosis. January 11th, swabs from both ears 
negative ; only very slight ear discharge and no nasal discharge. The patient 
was sent home on January 12th. The serum-growth taken on the Slst December 
was tested by Dr. Eyre, and found to be virulent. 



The Application of Chemical Analysis 
to the Study of Biological Processes 
of Sewage Purification. 



BY 



GILBERT J. FOWLER, D.Sc, F.LC, 

Superintendent and Chemist of the Sewage Works, Manchester. 
Senior Chemical Assistant Public Health Laboratory, Manchester University. 



The Application of Chemical Analysis to the Study 
of Biological Processes of Sewage Purification. 



Introduction. 

Owing to the general adoption of water carriage and the increasing scarcity 
of land in the vicinity of large towns, the question of sewage purification has 
of recent years become of such far reaching importance, and so many new 
developments have taken place in connection with it, that a long course of 
lectures would be required to deal with the subject at all adequately. 

At Professor Delepine's suggestion I have selected one branch of the subject 
upon which more particularly to speak, viz., the chemistry of the Bacterial 
treatment of sewage. As the matter of the lecture developed in my mind, it 
has seemed better to modify slightly the title as originally advertised, and my 
subject will be best defined as " The Application of Chemical Analysis to the 
study of the Biological Processes of Sewage Purification." 

My intention is not to enter into the details of specific methods of analysis, 
but rather to show how the results obtained by the various methods in use 
for the examination of sewage and effluents may serve as a guide to those who 
have to advise or report upon questions of sewage purification. At the same 
time I hope to be able to indicate directions where further knowledge is 
desirable. 

Methods of Sewag^e Purification. It will be useful at the 
outset to summarise briefly the various methods of sewage purification available, 
and for that purpose I have prepared the following table : — 

Preliminary Purification Typical 

Treatment. Process. Examples. 

Screening Dilution by Discharge Hamburg 

into river 
Settlement „ Cassel 

Chemical Treatment „ London 

Septic Tank „ sea Morecambe 

Screening Broad Irrigation over Paris 

Land 
Settlement „ West Derby (near 

Liverpool 
Chemical Treatment „ Wolverhampton 

Septic Tank „ Birmingham 



100 





FOWLER 




Preliminary 


Purification 


Typical 


Treatment. 


Process. 


Examples. 


Screening 


Intermittent Filtration 
through Land 


L Dewsbury 


Settlement 


>j 


Berlin 


Chemical Treatment 


yy 


Bolton 


Septic Tank 


» 


Prestwich 


Screening 


Contact Beds 


Hampton-on-Thames 


Settlement 


yj 


Oldham 


Chemical Treatment 


>y 


Heywood 


Septic Tank 


>) 


Manchester 


Screening 


Continuous Filters 


Leeds 


Settlement 


» 


Malvern 


Chemical Precipitation 


>i 


Salford 


Septic Tank 


» 


Accrington 



Many other equally typical and instructive examples might, of course, be 
given besides the particular ones chosen. I have been guided chiefly by my 
own knowledge, and I have endeavoured to choose one instance in each case 
where the works are noteworthy either from their size or completeness, rather 
than to multiply instances. The final purification in all these cases is 
biological. In the case of discharge into large bodies of water the purification 
is effected by the action of various organisms in presence of oxygen, dissolved 
in the water. In the other cases a similar final result is obtained through the 
action of organisms which develop on the extended surfaces offered by land or 
the material of artificial filters. 

Objects of Sewagre Analysis. The objects of sewage analysis 
may be broadly defined as follows : — 

1. To determine the character of the sewage to be treated. 

2. To determine the efficiency of purification works. 

3. To determine the effect of discharge of sewage or effluents into various 
bodies of water either river, lake or sea. 

In connection with all of these questions special problems are constantly 
arising demanding careful scientific investigation. 

DETERMINATION OF THE CHARACTER OF THE SEWAGE. 

The first application of sewage analysis we have to consider then is the 
determination of the character of a sewage with a view to deciding what is 
the best and most economical method to adopt for its purification. With this 
problem is bound up the third above mentioned, viz., the investigation of the 
stream into which the effluent will flow, but it will be convenient to take the 
first part of the question by itself and two cases present themselves : — 

(a) The case of a town already sewered. 

[h) The case of a town not yet sewered. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 101 

Town already Sewered : Taking: of Samples. The first of 
these two cases is the simpler, as here representative samples of the sewage may- 
be taken and directly analysed. 

To obtain a true idea of the character of the sewage it is necessary to take 
samples at least every hour during the 24, and if an average sample is required 
the separate samples should be mixed in proportion to the flow, the latter being 
determined by hourly gaugings, or by a recording instrument. 

Differences between Night and Day Sewag^e. The follow- 
ing tables of results obtained in Manchester will indicate the difference in 
character and quantity between the sewage flowing during the night and 
during the working hours of the day.^ 





Rate of flow in gallons 


4 Hour's 




Time. 


per 24 Hours. 


Oxygen Test. 


Chlorine, 


a.m. 




Parts per 


100,000. 


1 


25,000,000 


7-7 


15-4 


2 


23,000,000 


7-4 


16-6 


3 


21,500,000 


7-5 


16-4 


4 


20,500,000 


7-3 


15-7 


5 


20,000,000 


7-3 


160 


6 


20 000,000 


6-7 


160 


7 


20,000,000 


6-9 


13-7 


8 


22,500,000 


60 


116 


9 


26,000,000 


60 


11-3 


10 


32,500,000 


141 


12-4 


11 


37,750,000 


12-3 


15-9 


noon 12 


40,000,000 


10-6 


160 


p.m. 
* 1 


42,500,000 


13-9 


17-4 


2 


43,000,000 


140 


17-9 


3 


41,000,000 


14-6 


19-9 


4 


39,500,000 


15-3 


18-9 


5 


41,000,000 


15-3 


180 


6 


42,000,000 


130 


16-6 


7 


41,500,000 


13-9 


180 


8 


38,000,000 


13-7 


18-3 


9 


35,000,000 


12-7 


17-6 


10 


32,500,000 


141 


18-9 


11 


29,000,000 


11-4 


18-9 


mdn.l2 


26,500,000 


8-1 


171 



influence of Rainfall. The difference between the composition 

of average samples made up in proportion to the flow, and average samples 

' Annual Eeport of Manchester Rivers Committee, March 28th, 1900, p. 8, Diagram A. City 
Surveyor's Annual Report on Treatment of Sewage at Davyhulme for year ending December 31st. 
1897, pp. 18-19. Supplementary Report of Superintendent, January 16th, 1900, p. 10. 



102 FOWLER 

made up in equal proportions will vary according to circumstances, notably 
rainfall. Thus, while in dry weather the average composition of a day's hourly 
samples will indicate greater impurity when these are taken in proportion to 
the flow than when they are taken in equal volumes, the reverse may easily be 
the case when the sewage is diluted by rain; though here no general rule can 
be given, as different results will be obtained according to whether a storm 
occurs after a period of dry weather, when large quantities of accumulated 
filth may be swept from the sewers, or whether the increased flow continues 
after the first flush has passed. 

Influence of Trade Effluents. Further exceptions may occur 
through the irregular discharge of trade effluents on different days of the week 
or at different hours of the day.^ One day of the week, usually Monday, is 
observed as washing day by the majority of people, and the composition of the 
sewage is affected thereby. It is necessary, therefore, that samples should be 
taken as above described, if possible, on every day of the week and under all 
conditions of weather. 

Suspended Matter. In sampling sewage into ordinary bottles much 
of the suspended matter is apt to be missed. If a thorough examination is to 
be made it is well to take larger quantities and examine by sieving. Experi- 
ments in this direction have been made in Berlin by Dr. Monti ^ using sieves 
varying in mesh from 7mm. to 0'5mm. and about 400 litres of sewage. He 
obtained the following results : — 7mm. sieve retained faeces, plant fragments, 
paper, etc. ; 2'4mm. sieve retained plant fragments, leaves, seeds, twigs, etc. ; 
1mm. sieve retained a sludgy smooth deposit consisting partly of cotton, flax 
and wool fibres, muscle fibres and particles of humus; 0'5mm. retained a 
muddy, dark grey slime with more humus than the 1mm. residue. Both the 
last two residues increased in volume on drying. On exposure for some time 
they became gradually black and smelt of rancid fat. 

In general it may be said that the substances retained on the sieves are 
those which contain most nitrogenous and fatty organic matter. 

Fat and other Orphan ic Products. The fat content of Berlin 
sewage has been carefully investigated by Schreiber,^ and he finds the mean 
percentage of fats in the dry residue of sewage to be 13'8. When it is 
remembered that the whole of the soap consumption of a town finds its way 
into the sewers, besides much of the waste fat from ordinary households 

^ Supplementary Report of Superintendent, loc. cit., pp. 20 — 25. Annual Reports of Rivers 
Department, March 28th, 1900, Diagram B; March 27th, 1901, p. 33. Experts' Report on Treat- 
ment of Manchester Sewage, October 30th, 1899, Diagrams 4, 5, 7, 8, 20. 

' " Ueber die Schwimm-u-Schwebestoffe des Berliner Sielwassers." Dr. Monti, Archiv fiir 
Hygiene, Band xlv. 

* " Ueber den Fettreichtum der Abwasser und das Verhalten des Fettes im Boden der 
Rieselfelder Berlins." Dr. Karl Schreiber, Archiv fur Hygiene, Band xlv. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 103 

and from restaurants, and that to this must be added in many cases the refuse 
from abattoirs and from soap, candle and leather works, it will be seen that 
the recovery of grease from sewage sludge is a problem worth consideration. 
It has been successfully attempted at Cassel, where only domestic sewage has 
to be dealt with. At Bradford, where exceptional quantities of grease are 
present in the wool-scouring waste liquors, a large percentage of the grease is 
recoverable economically by simple methods, and steps are being taken to 
extract the whole. 



Decomposition of" Samples. Before considering the more ordinary 
methods of sewage analysis it should be mentioned that as biological fermenta- 
tion takes place very rapidly, especially in domestic sewage, the analysis should 
be made at the latest within 24 hours of taking the sample. Where this cannot 
be done it is necessary to stop or retard fermentation changes by addition of 
antiseptics. 

Special Objects of Analysis. In order to arrive at a knowledge 
of the character of a sewage it is necessary to determine : — 

1. The amount and nature of the organic and mineral solids in solution and 
suspension. 

2. The amount and nature of the oxidisable matters. 

3. The amount and nature of the nitrogenous matters. 

4. The chlorine content. 

1. Solids in Solution and Suspension, The ordinary methods 
for the determination of these, viz., filtration, evaporation and ignition of the 
suspended and dissolved matter are liable to various errors and must be used 
with judgment. Ammonium salts, especially carbonate of ammonium tend to 
b^ evolved on evaporation, though this may be to some extent avoided by 
addition of known quantities of oxalic acid before evaporation. 

Ignition of the suspended and evaporated solids is accompanied by numerous 
changes, e.g., water of crystallisation and hydration is driven off, iron com- 
pounds are oxidised, sulphides are oxidised to sidphates and oxides. Due 
allowance being made for these facts, however, useful comparative results may 
often be obtained. 

Complete analyses are much more tedious but more useful. Thus Rubner,^ 
by careful precipitation with basic ferric acetate, and analysis of the clear 
liquid and precipitate, has been able to show that 40 per cent, of the combustible 
matter in the precipitate consisted of cellulose, 20 per cent, of fat, and the 
remainder mostly albumen. The phosphates will also be in this precipitate. 

2. The Amount and Nature of the Oxidisable Matters. 

Rubner was able to determine the carbon and nitrogen in his precipitate, tlie 
carbon by moist combustion by chromic acid, and the nitrogen by the Kjeldahl 

' "Das Stadtische Sielwasser und seine Beziehung zur Flussverunreinigung." M. Rubner, 
Archiv fur Hygiene, Band xlv. 



104 FOWLER 

method, as well as to determine separately cellulose, fat, etc., as above 
mentioned. He obtained also interesting comparative values by combustion of 
the precipitates in tbe calorimetric bomb. The residue on evaporation of the 
precipitated liquid can be similarly dealt with. As a rule, simpler and more 
rapid methods are made use of, the amount of oxygen absorbed from a known 
volume of acid permanganate being taken as a measure of the oxidisable matter 
present. 

Broadly speaking the test is applied in three ways, the sample is left in 
contact with excess of permanganate at the ordinary temperature or slightly 
above it, for four hours and for three minutes respectively, or it is boiled ten 
minutes with excess of permanganate (Kubel method) the excess of per- 
manganate being suitably determined in each case. As a rule the Kubel 
method gives considerably higher results than the four hours test, but the 
difference depends to some extent on the nature of the oxidisable matter. 

There are, of course, many trade effluents which are oxidisable by per- 
manganate. The following are equally capable with ordinary sewage of 
putrefactive decomposition, viz.: — Brewery waste, yeast, etc.; size manu- 
facturers' refuse ; abattoir refuse ; paper waste ; distillery waste ; tannery and 
fellmongering refuse ; wool-scouring refuse. 

Other substances may be present which are not putrefactive but which 
absorb oxygen. Such are the following : — Various coal-tar products, e.g., 
phenol, naphthylamine, naphthols, naphthalene sulphonic acids, pyridine bases ; 
dyes, e.g., indigo, logwood, etc. ; inorganic salts, e.g., thiocyanates, sulphites, 
iron pickle, nitrites. 

A very good indication of the presence of such bodies as these is afforded 
by the ratio of the four hours to the three minutes' test, a much greater pro- 
portion of the total absorption taking place, as a rule, in three minutes, when 
oxidisable trade effluent is present than when only domestic sewage has to be 
dealt with. Examples: — 

Manchester TJrmston & Flixton 

Sewage, containing Oxidisable Trade Effluents. Domestic Sewage. 

Oxygen Absorbed from Permanganate. Parts per 100,000. Parts per 100,000. 

4 Hours' Test 12-7 b2 

3 Minutes' Test 60 20 

Ratio 4 hours to 3 minutes 20ll 2'5I1 

The difference between these ratios is more marked when the samples are filtered 
before analysis, as the matter in solution is affected by the permanganate more 
rapidly than matters in suspension. 

The majority of the trade effluents above mentioned, especially the non- 
putrefactive effluents absorb oxygen from permanganate instantly, and 
consequently affect the 3 minutes' test to a greater proportionate extent than 
the 4 hours'. For the same reason there is less difference between the Kubel 
and the 4 hours' test with sewage containing trade effluents than with domestic 
sewage. Examples: — 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 105 

Manchester Sewage. Hamburg Experiments.® 

4 Hours' Test. Kubel Test. 4 Hours' Test. Kubel Test. 

9-4 11-5 8-8 130 

A further differentiation between putrefactive and non-putrefactive oxidis- 
able matter is arrived at by means of the dissolved oxygen test, or biological 
oxygen absorption test which we shall have to consider later when speaking of 
filtrates. 

3. Total Nitrogrenous Matter. The actual composition of the 
nitrogenous organic matter in sewage as it enters the works is not too well 
known. Certain bodies are known to be originally present as products of 
excretion, and some indication of their quantity and the degree of decomposition 
is arrived at by the three customary methods of determining ammonia, viz., 
as free ammonia, albuminoid ammonia and organic or Kjeldahl ammonia. 
The final products of oxidation of nitrogenous organic matter, viz., nitrites 
and nitrates are seldom found in sewage except when diluted by rain. 

The free ammonia is derived in large measure from the ammoniacal fer- 
mentation of urea, a change which takes place with great rapidity, and also 
in some measure perhaps from incipient decomposition of albuminoids. 

The albuminoid ammonia affords some index to the quantity of complex 
nitrogenous matter present, and to the degree of decomposition which has taken 
place, to which further reference will be made when considering the changes 
taking place in the septic tank. It is, however, a somewhat indefinite number, 
and depends to a great extent on the details of the analytical method used. If 
the boiling with alkaline permanganate is continued indefinitely there is a 
corresponding evolution of ammonia, and with increasing concentration of the 
alkaline solution the process merges into a modification of the Kjeldahl. 

By the Kjeldahl method if proper precautions are taken the total nitrogen 
of the nitrogenous organic matter may be obtained. There is a large number 
0^ different modifications of this process. We may hope to have some informa- 
tion with regard to it in the report on analytical methods shortly to be published 
by the Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal. The method is, it must be 
confessed, somewhat difficult and tedious, but either some such method or 
Frankland's combustion method must be used if absolute figures are required. 

Many attempts have been made to work out a definite ratio between the 
Kjeldahl and albuminoid figures, especially in America, where it has been 
found that in the case of the majority of Massachusetts sewages ^ the following 
formula may be used with fair results : — 

Organic nitrogen =12 times the square of the Nitrogen as Albuminoid Ammonia 
divided by the Nitrogen as free Ammonia. 

In England, according to Scudder,^ whose evidence I can confirm, it has 



* "Leitfaden fiir die Chemische Untersuchung von Abwasser," Farnsteiner, Buttenberg and 
Korn. R. Oldenbourg, Munich and Berlin. 

'Fuller. "The Composition of Sewage, in relation to Problems of Disposal." Technology 
Quarterly, Vol. xvi., No. 2, June, 1903. 

"Royal Commission Reports, Vol. ii., Q5950, p. 329. 



106 FOWLER 

not been possible to find a fixed ratio. It will depend no doubt on the dilution 
of the sewage and the degree of decomposition of the albuminoids as above 
mentioned. In Manchester and in other manufacturing towns the character 
of the trade waste will be of influence. Ammonia recovery liquor from the 
gas works contains residual ammonia and sulphocyanate of lime, which will 
respectively affect the free and albuminoid ammonia figures. Amido compounds 
such as naphthylamine will be of influence, also brewery and tannery waste. 

Acidity, Alicalinity, Chlorine. Other factors in the composition 
of sewage besides those already mentioned, which have to be taken into account 
are the acidity and alkalinity, especially when trade ejBSuents are present, and 
also the chlorine number. This is useful in affording an index to the dilution 
of the sewage, though allowance must be made in the case of some sewage for 
the presence of bleaching liquor, iron pickling liquor (when hydrochloric acid 
is used) and also for sulphocyanates in ammonia recovery liquor, which are 
estimated along with the chlorine in the ordinary titration with silver nitrate. 
A large increase is sometimes observed in the chlorine figures during a thaw of 
snow , owing to the salt used for melting. 

By all these methods we may obtain a fairly complete idea of the character 
of the sewage to be treated. Here the methods of analysis used, if they are 
to be really informing, should be as complete as possible. As a matter of fact 
thorough data for a number of towns of varying character are still lacking. 
Until these are obtained there will always be some amount of uncertainty in 
dealing with the second problem in this division of our subject, viz. : — 

Ttie Estimation of the Composition of the Sewagre in a 
Town not yet Sewered. In this case the effect of certain factors on 
the composition of the sewage has to be carefully weighed. 

Human Excreta. At the basis of the calculation there are, of 
course, certain physiological constants. Thus, according to Michael Foster^ 
the urine passed per 24 hours by an ordinary individual contains 1,500 grams 
water and 72 grams solids, of which about 33 grams consist of urea. The 
weight of fa;ces amounts to about 150 grams per diem,^° and according to 
E-ubner^^ the amount of paper used amounts to 68 grams per diem. 

Domestic Water supply. The character of the sewage to be treated 
will depend upon the water supply per head. This varies greatly under different 
conditions. In America, where there is a lavish use and sometimes waste of 
water, it may be as much as 100 gallons per head; in England it is commonly 
from 20 to 40 gallons; while in India and the Colonies it may be much less. 
Experiments have been made by A. E. Silk with latrine sewage in connection 
with the Presidency Jail at Calcutta, where only half a gallon per head of 



•"Physiology," Book ii., p. 653. 

" Gillespie. " Natural History of Digestion," p. 203. 

" Loc. cit. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 



107 



water was used. No figures are published for the raw sewage, but the following 
results of the examination of the contents of the tank carts in Johannesburg 
will give some idea of the character of the liquid, although probably the latrine 
sewage was even stronger. The analysis was made by Dr. Pakes, Government 
Analyst, and has been sent me by the courtesy of Dr. Porter, the Medical 
Officer of Health. 



Total Solids 

Loss on ignition. 
Solids in suspension 
Loss on ignition 
Solids in solution 
Loss on ignition 
Oxygen absorbed (4 hrs 

Chlorine 

Saline Ammonia 
Albuminoid Ammonia 
Nitric Nitrogen 
Nitrites 



Parts per 100,000. 



No. 1. 


No. 2. 


No. 3. 


289-6 


. . 405-8 . 


. 273-65 


104-40 


.. 17415 . 


. 168-30 


135-4 


.. 264-2 . 


. 281-4 


16-05 


.. 86-2 . 


. 77-05 


154-2 


.. 141-6 . 


. 150-55 


88-35 


.. 87-95 . 


. 91-25 


. 27 C.) 20-5 


— 


. 29-5 


29-5 


'.'. 31-5 '. 


. 29-5 


15-25 


912 . 


. 18-21 


5-60 


.. 1007 . 


1210 


Trace 


Trace 


Trace 


Nil 


.. Nil . 


Nil 



We may compare with this Rideal's figures for Exeter sewage, a moderately 
strong domestic sewage. ^^ 



Total Solids in Solution 
Oxygen Consumed 

Free Ammonia 

Albuminoid Ammonia 



46-8 
6-56 
3-6 
1-4 



^ It may be noted here that a certain minimum dilution is necessary for 
purification as Warington ^^ has shown that a 12 per cent, solution of urine was 
the highest strength nitrifiable. 

Soap, Grease and Trade Effluents. In the case of the total 
sewage of a large town the amount of soap and grease passing away from the 
houses must be considered. As a result of the investigations of Berlin sewage 
above referred to, Schreiber concludes that domestic grease production amounts 
to 8-4 grams per head per day. The amount and character of the various trade 
effluents must be carefully ascertained. 

Rain Water. The problem is greatly complicated if the combined 
system of sewerage is in contemplation. Regard must then be had to the 
incidence and amount of the rainfall, whether seasonal as in the tropics, or 
fairly evenly distributed as in Manchester. The amount of sub-soil water 
likely to enter the sewers under different conditions of weather and season must 



"Royal Commission Report, 1902, Vol. ii., Q4135. 
"Journ. Chem. Soc, 1884, p. 661. 



108 FOWLER 

also be allowed for. The figures arrived at in the manner thus indicated may 
be checked by reference to similar towns already sewered. 

Thus Fuller (loc. cit.) gives comparative data of grams per capita of the 
various elements as determined by ordinary analysis, and finds a fair agreement 
between the data for towns of a corresponding character. Such data can, of 
course, be only approximately comparative, as local conditions vary more or 
less from town to town, especially where the sewerage is on the combined 
system. As further exact data accumulate for different conditions, it should 
be possible to assess with considerable accuracy the composition of the pro- 
spective sewage of a town still short of a sewerage system. 

THE APPLICATION OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS TO THE DETERMINA- 
TION OF THE EFFICIENCY OF PURIFICATION PROCESSES. 

We have now to deal with the application of chemical analysis to the 
determination of the efficiency of purification processes. Here we are chiefly 
concerned with obtaining comparative numbers for control purposes, and 
rapidity is one of the chief requisites in the methods used. In order better to 
appreciate the meaning of the analytical results obtained it is necessary here 
to consider briefly the character of the changes taking place in the septic tank, 
and in the bacterial filters, whether these latter are intermittent (contact beds) 
or continuous (percolating filters). 

It must be at once confessed that all the chemical and other changes which 
take place during these purification processes are by no means fully understood. 
I will, however, in brief outline give what in the light of our present knowledge 
seems to me to be the fairly well ascertained course of things. 

Chang^es in the Septic Tank. Taking first the septic tank, here 
the sewage passing slowly through deposits the greater part of its matters in 
suspension. These falling to the bottom enter in time into anaerobic decomposi- 
tion. Albuminoids are broken down by the action of various organisms and 
enzymes yielding numerous amido compounds of more or less complexity, e.g., 
glycocoll, leucine, asparagin; also compounds such as phenyl-acetic acid, indol 
and skatol, and finally ammonium salts, amines, hydrogen sulphide, mercaptans, 
marsh gas, free nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon dioxide.^* These changes take 
place to some extent, and the conversion of urea into ammonium carbonate almost 
entirely, in the sewers, and it will depend on the length of travel of the sewage 
between the town and the sewage works how far the changes have progressed. 
The conversion of cellulose into methane, hydrogen and COj by the action of two 
specific organisms,^^ one of which produces methane and the other hydrogen, 
takes place more slowly and is chiefly confined to the septic tank. The slow 

"Rideal, Royal Commission Report, Vol. ii., p. 250. Emmerling Berichte, 1897, xxx., p. 1863. 
Mittheilungen aus der Koniglichen Prufungsanstalt, Berlin, Heft 1, 1902, p. 81. Fowler, Man- 
chester Rivers Department Annual Report, March 27th, 1901, pp. 29 — 42. Buxton, American 
Medicine, Vol. vi.. No. 4, pp. 137—142, July 25th, 1903, No. 15, pp. 381—583, October 10th, 
1903. 

"Omeliansky. Centralbl. Balct., 1902 (ii.), p. 193 and seq. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 109 

splitting up of fats by suitable enzymes yielding butyric, acetic and other 
acids,^® will also take place chiefly in the tank. 

There is reason to think that the chief bacterial activity is in the deposited 
sludge. After this has begun to ferment portions are carried up by the gases 
which surround the particles, and finally a crust is formed consisting largely 
of matted fibrous material full of organic life. There is a continual interchange 
between the sludge and scum, and thus the liquid constantly passing through 
becomes also affected and changed in character. The matters in solution appear 
to break down to some extent and the liquid is readily purified in bacterial 
filters. 

Chang^es in Bacterial Beds or Filters. Here the changes 
are even more complex. As far as our present knowledge goes we have to 
distinguish at least three classes of change, fhysical, chemical and biological. 
Among the latter may be distinguished changes due to bacterial or plant life, 
and changes due to animal life. 

In a new unripened filter the physical effect is first apparent. The matters 
in emulsion and in many cases in actual solution are retained by the medium 
by a process of 'physical absorption, akin to the condensation of CO2 on moist 
glass wool observed by Bunsen.^^ Purely cheviical oxidation of certain compounds 
may take place owing to condensed oxygen, e.g., ferrous compounds such as FeS 
are oxidised, also HjS to H2SO4 and certain leuco bases to the corresponding 
dyes.^*^ 

A very interesting experiment has been devised by Liibbert to show the 
powerful oxidising action which takes place on the surface of cinders. If a 
2 per cent, solution of dimethyl-aniline in ordinary alcohol be brought in 
contact with clinkers of about 2mm. diameter, the dimethyl-aniline is oxidised 
to methyl violet. Liibbert has obtained the effect in a few hours. In attempt- 
ing to repeat the experiment I could not obtain the colour till after more than 
a week's contact, it was then, however, quite strong, and no change took place 
in a portion of the same solution left out of contact with clinkers. In the 
ordinary way it is necessary to heat dimethyl-aniline with potassium chlorate 
to obtain the colour. 

Hypochlorites are oxidised to chlorates, and thus a means is found for 
purifying hospital sewage sterilised with chloride of linie.^** Whereas phenol 
will, when present in large quantities, inhibit the action of the bacterial filters, 
these are practically unaffected by the presence of reasonable amounts of 
chloride of lime. These apparently purely physical and chemical changes 
require further study. 

The bacterial changes are chiefly those concerned in the gradual conversion 

"Herfeldt. Journ. Soc. Chem. Ind., May, 1895. 

" Kattein and Liibbert. "Zur Bedeutung der Absorptions Vorgange bei der biologischen 
Abwasserreinigung." Ibid, 1903, No. 25. Fowler, Manchester Kivers Department Annual Report, 
March 25th, 1903, p. 22. 

" Dunbar. " Zur Beurteilung der biologischen Abwasserreinigungs methoden." GesundheiVs 
Ivgenieur, 1903, Nos. 33 and 34. Dunbar and Korn, "Zur Desinfektion von Abwassern mit 
gleichzeitiger Reinigung derselben." Ibid, 1904, No. 2. 



110 FOWLEE- 

of ammonia into nitric acid, tlie process known as nitrification, and the sub- 
sequent oxidation of organic matter by means of tbe nitrate formed. But 
purely carbon oxidation changes must go on, e.g., the breaking down of dextrine 
and sugar, etc.,^^ and no doubt the processes started in the septic tank are 
carried on and complete themselves in the primary bed or in the upper layers 
of a continuous filter. The ammonia thus set free is partially oxidised. It has 
never been possible actually to account for the total quantity of nitrogen 
disappearing. Some of it has been proved to be liberated in the free state,2o 
no doubt during the oxidation of organic matter by nitrates, in accordance 
with the earlier observations of Gayon and Dupetit, some will be stored in the 
filter as a constituent of the residual humus, and a certain quantity undoubtedly 
is taken up by the higher forms of life in the filter which themselves probably 
feed on the bacteria, and here we are confronted with changes due to animal 
life as distinct from bacterial life. Some very interesting observations in this 
direction have been made by Letts ^^ and Lorrain Smith 22 in Belfast. They, 
in common with other workers, have noticed the numerous forms of life, other 
than bacteria, present in contact beds. Letts noticed swarms of minute, black, 
wingless insects, probably " Podura Aquatica"; also numbers of worms. 
Besides these higher organisms there were countless animalculse present. 

Lorrain Smith instituted, experiments on the rate of disappearance of 
unoxidised nitrogen in dilute broth inoculated with sewage, and found it far 
less than when the broth was brought in contact with material from the bacteria 
beds. 

A curious biological succession has been observed at Accrington. On the 
continuous filters there, at certain seasons of the year, there are crowds of small 
flies. These give place later to spiders, which finally become the prey of birds. 
Flocks of wagtails have been observed on the bacteria beds at the Manchester 
Corporation Sewage Works. 

The Application of Analysis to the Control of the 

Septic Tank cannot be said yet to be fully worked out, the process being 
complicated by the fact that changes are going on simultaneously both in the 
deposited solids and in the liquid passing through. Researches have been 
directed to determining the amount of solids digested by ascertaining the 
quantity of suspended matters passing in and out of the tank during a specified 
time and the amount of sludge present in the tank at the end of that time. 
Unless the flow through the tank is constant or easily measurable there is 
considerable difficulty in sampling, as, in order to obtain correct results, samples 
must be taken in proportion to the flow. 

" M. E. Rolants. " De I'Epuration Biologique des Matieres Hydro-carbonees dans les eaux 
residuaires industrielles." Revve d' Hygiene, Dec, 1902. 

^° Letts. Report on Belfast Sewage Scheme. Third Report of Royal Commission, Vol. ii., 
p. 132. Gayon and Dupetit, Station Agronomique de Bordeaux, 1886. 

"Loc. at. 

^' Report to Corporation of Belfast re Bacteriological Investigation of the Experimental Contact 
Beds. Third Report of Royal Commission, Vol. ii., p. 147. 



SEWAGE PUEIFICATION 111 

Careful measurements made in London,^^ Mancliester,^* and at Worcester 
(Mass.)^^ appear to show that a considerable percentage destruction of organic 
matter takes place even with sewage containing manufacturing refuse. With 
purely domestic sewage ordinary experience would indicate a much greater per- 
centage destruction, but exact figures are still to seek. Some diiference of opinion 
indeed exists on the data already available, the point of discussion appearing 
to resolve itself into a question of the conditions and limitations of septic 
action. There is no doubt, for instance, that if certain septic tank effluents 
are kept in a closed bottle they develope llgS, become exceedingly offensive, 
and deposit considerable quantities of matter originally in solution. An 
effluent in such a condition may be termed " over-septicised," and there is no 
doubt that it is possible to hold sewage too long in the septic tank when 
nuisance is apt to arise and the effluent is very difficult subsequently to purify 
on aerobic beds. There is some evidence that toxic products, e.g., amines, are 
formed,26 the HjS and other gases present also quickly use up the oxygen supply 
in the filters.^^ 

But at present, I am bound to say, analytical methods have not been 
developed enough in the direction of determining when a septic effluent is in 
the best condition for subsequent purification. Possibly the composition of 
the gases evolved from the tank may give some indication, but these arise 
chiefly from the solids and have no necessary reference to the condition of the 
liquid. Thus, if the flow through the tank is very irregular the liquid may be 
over-septicised at one time and not enough at another, while the process remains 
the same in the deposited sludge throughout. 

Further research is needed in this direction, especially as regards the ratio 
of the nitrogen figures. Possibly some help may also be forthcoming from 
the bacteriologist. At present the routine tests, the oxygen absorption test, 
albuminoid ammonia, etc., merely indicate the percentage purification on the 
raw sewage, and the character of effluent to be put upon the beds. 
V Of considerable importance is the determination of suspended matter, 
as showing the need or otherwise of removing some of the deposited sludge 
and as indicating the quantity of solids passing on to the beds. 

Analysis in the Control of Biologfical Filter Beds. 

Analysis is, however, of the greatest value in controlling the icorh of hiologu-al 
filter beds whether intermittent or conti7iuous. Here we are concerned with 
the actual disappearance of oxidisable matters, and ascertaining, to some extent 



** Clowe's Fourth Report to Main Drainage Gommittee of the London County Council, April 
17th, 1902, p. 21, 22—39. 

** Annual Report of Rivers Committee March, 1901, pp. 29 — 42. 

" Kinnicutt and Eddy. " The Action of the Septic Tank on Acid Iron Sewage." Third Annual 
Report of the Connecticut Sewage Commission, 1902. 

" Rideal, loc. cit., Q4146, cf. Scott-Moncrieff, ditto, Q3242. 

"Annual Reports Massachusetts State Board of Health, No. 33, 1902, pp. 286-7, 291-2; No. 31. 
1901, pp. 387—392. 



112 FOWLER 

at any rate,tlie quantity of oxidised material formed. Thus the percentage 
purification, either as measured by the oxygen absorbed or by the albuminoid 
ammonia, gives an excellent idea of the work done. It has, in fact, been argued 
by Dunbar and Thumm,^** that if a certain per cent, purification, e.g., 60 — 65 
per cent., of any given tank effluent, as measured by the Kubel method, after 
filtration, through paper, has been effected by the purification process, the final 
effluent is non-putrefactive whatever the absolute numbers may be. This may 
hold in certain cases, but hardly in all. In Manchester, e.g., the indications of 
the four hours and albuminoid ammonia test are complicated by the presence 
of trade effluents, which affect the indications of the two tests, the former 
especially, and render such a method of determining effective purification 
uncertain. 

The amount of nitrate present and the behaviour on incubation in closed 
bottles either with or without addition of aerated water are safer guides in 
such cases. There can be no doubt that the amount of nitrate appearing in 
an effluent is the residuum left over after a certain proportion has been employed 
in oxidising carbonaceous impurities. This is especially so in the case of the 
contact bed. If the material of a contact bed is washed out after rest with 
ordinary town's water, much more nitrate will be obtained in solution than if, 
say, septic tank effluent were employed. This denitrification change is no 
doubt necessary for the effective oxidation of many substances, e.g., cellulose.^^ 
In the case of the contact bed the two changes nitrification and de-nitrification 
take place alternately, and possibly also simultaneously in the same bed, and 
consequently after double contact an effluent is obtained where both carbon- 
aceous and nitrogenous organic matters have been well oxidised. 

In the case of continuous filters, at any rate those of the more open kind, 
the ammonia is rapidly oxidised to nitric acid, but the conditions do not seem 
so favourable to carbon oxidation, therefore, these filtrates often have a rather 
high oxygen absorption and albuminoid ammonia, and incompletely oxidised 
organic suspended matter passes through and has to be strained out or settled. 
During the straining process some amount of de-nitrification takes place and 
the final effluent, though containing less nitrate, is of greater general purity. 
It is here that the sequence of changes in biological filters appears to be 
different from that taking place during direct oxidation in mixtures of sewage 
or effluent with oxygenated water, which we shall have to consider in the next 
section. The precise change going on depends greatly on the size of material 
in the filter, as on this depends the extent of surface of contact and the amount 
of liquid held up in the interstices of the material and consequently the inter- 
actions which take place. 

In judging of the working of a filter, then, we shall be guided by the 
percentage purification, the disappearance of free ammonia, and the appearance 
of nitrate. If the free ammonia does not decrease or if the nitrites increase at 
the expenses of the nitrates, it is generally a sign that the filter is overworked. 

^' Abwasserreinigungsfrage, Munich, 1902. R. Oldenbourg, pp. 18, 19; cf. "Leitfaden fur 
Chemische Untersuchung von Abwasser," loc. cit. pp. 54, 55. 

" G. van Iterson. " Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch.," Amsterdam, 1903, v., 685—703 Journ. 
Chem. Soc, Abs. 1903, Part ii., p. 503. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 113 

If a good supply of nitrate is present the effluent will rarely, if ever, putrefy 
on incubation, tlie oxygen of the nitrate being sufficient to oxidise the residual 
impurity, in any case the degree of putrefaction indicated by the increase in 
the three minutes oxygen absorption test before and after incubation will be 
les8.^° 

The Matters in Suspension in an Effluent from 
Bacterial Filters are of great importance. It may frequently happen, 
especially in the case of continuous filters that considerable quantities of sus- 
pended matters pass away in the effluent. It may also be that the effluent, 
when incubated along with these suspended matters, is not putrefactive. It 
must not, however, always be concluded that the suspended matter is harmless, 
as if allowed to settle, the clear filtrate poured off and the suspended matter 
separately incubated with distilled water, then it will often be found to be putre- 
factive. The character of suspended matter which separates from filtrates 
under various conditions requires careful study. Perfectly clear land filtrates 
may, on standing, give ferruginous deposits, partly due to oxidation of iron 
present originally as organic ferrous salts, and partly due to the presence of 
bacteria which collect and separate iron from solution, e.g., crenothrix. 

The same may take place in the effluent from contact beds, especially where 
the sewage contains iron pickling refuse in solution. In the case of open, 
continuous filters actual suspended matter from the septic tank may find its 
way in an unoxidised condition through the filters. In all these cases the 
organic and volatile matter may also be in large degree due to growths of 
organisms of one kind and another, sometimes, it may be, of a fairly high order, 
e.g., infusoria, etc. 

In general it may be said that the more perfect the action of the bed the 
more harmless or more thoroughly oxidised will the suspended matter be, until 
fiinally it may be rightly described as organic residuum or debris. It must, 
however, if present in more than traces (3 grains per gallon have been suggested 
as a limit), be removed from the effluent by straining or settlement. 

The experience of Leeds would show that an effluent containing large 
quantities of suspended matter can be strained through Gin. sand at the rate 
of two million gallons to the acre, or about six hours settlement is necessary. 
Much less than this is generally given, but as a rule it is not adequate. 



THE EFFECT OF AN EFFLUENT UPON A BODY OF WATER, 
RIVER, LAKE OR SEA. 

In deciding upon the fitness of an effluent to enter a body of water a great 
number of questions have to be borne in mind, involving really as much study 
as the purification process itself. 

»• See p. 116. 



114 FOWLER 

Dischargee into Sea.. Here tlie following matters have to be con- 
sidered : — 

1. The set of tides and currents. 

2. The character of the foreshore. 

The discharge of sewage into the sea is by no means the simple problem it 
is often supposed to be. If not discharged into a strong seaward current it is 
apt to return with the tide and cause nuisance on the foreshore. I will refrain 
from mentioning specific instances where this has occurred, but the difficulty 
has been sought to be remedied in some cases, e.g., at Morecambe by the 
provision of septic tanks, the effluent from which passes into the sea. In this 
way the solids are disintegrated and quickly disseminated, but even here the 
point of discharge must be carefully chosen, as it is hardly sufficiently under- 
stood that nitrification and oxidation of organic matter go on very slowly in 
sea water.^i 

With the bacteriological side of the question in relation to oysters I am not 
competent to deal. Unfortunately the remedy is here hardly to be found in 
the provision of biological purification plant, unless carried to the point of a 
water works, as it must, I fear, be conceded that h.coli and presumably other 
organisms of a more dangerous character pass unchanged through ordinary 
biological filters. 

In regard to the character of the foreshore the special case of Belfast 
presents most interesting features. Here a very serious nuisance is caused in 
the summer months not directly by the decomposition of sewage but by the 
decomposition of the sea-weed " ulva latissima." This weed contains a very 
high percentage of nitrogen, and has been found by Dr. Letts ^^ to owe its 
nourishment to sewage, as it absorbs both ammonia and nitrate. An ordinary 
well-nitrated effluent would therefore be as good food for this weed as sewage 
itself. The problem in Belfast therefore is not to oxidise nitrogen but to 
disperse it by the kind of reactions already described. It is probable that the 
mode of construction and working of the beds may be modified to suit this 
end. It is further suggested that the effluent may be allowed to flow through 
a pond containing the " ulva " before passing it away into the Lough. The 
final traces of nitrogen are thus absorbed by the controlled weed, and none is 
left to stimulate growth on the foreshore. 

Dischargee into Lake, River or Stream must be conditioned by the 
volume of the body of water with reference to the volume and character of 
sewage or effluent required to be discharged, the conditions as to currents, banks, 
etc., and finally whether the water is to be used for drinking purposes. In the 
study of the conditions of this problem the determination of dissolved oxygen 



'' Letts loc. cit. cf. Letts, Blake, Caldwell and Hawthorne. "The Nature and Speed of the 
Chemical Changes which occur in Mixture of Sewage and Sea Water." Scientific Proceedings of 
the Royal Dublin Society, Vol. iv. (N.S.), Part iii., No. 24. 

'^Interim Report of Royal Commission, Vol. ii., Q8574 and seq., also Proceedings of the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh, 1900-1. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 115 

is of the utmost value. When sewage is mixed with thoroughly oxygenated 
tap water a series of changes take place, probably identical with many occuring 
in biological filters, but apparently less complex and occupying more time. 
They have been very carefully studied by Adeney,^^ whose method of experi- 
ment consisted in making various mixtures of sewage and aerated tap water, 
and determining the composition of the dissolved gases after various periods. 
He made similar experiments with organic substances of known composition 
and drew the following among other conclusions : — 

"(a) That when the atmospheric oxygen is present as dissolved oxygen, in 
sufficient quantity in proportion to that of polluting matter, only two of the 
three possible fermentative processes can take place, and these two not simult- 
aneously but progressively, viz., (1) bacteriolysis, (2) nitrification. 

"(6) That by bacteriolysis the unfermented organic matters are completely 
broken down, the products being carbon dioxide, water, ammonia and relatively 
small quantities of organic matters in a much altered form. 

"(c) That nitrification sets in only after the completion of bacteriolysis. 

"(d) That it may be concluded both from experimental evidence and from 
the chemical nature of the process of nitrification that if the polluting matters 
present in the water have already undergone the process of bacteriolysis, no 
secondary process such as putrefaction can set in, even if the dissolved oxygen 
in the water containing them be consumed before they become completely 
nitrified, and that hence, fermented organic matters and ammonia need not 
be regarded as presenting the same danger to waters that unfermented organic 
matters undoubtedly do."^^ 

It follows that if an effluent is to be discharged into a stream there must be 
sufficient oxygen present in the effluent either dissolved or as nitrate, or there 
must be sufficient in the stream to completely oxidise the impurity. 

The power of a stream to successfully deal with pollution is very hard to 
gauge as so much depends on whether thorough mixing takes place, whether 
e^ies or back waters are frequent or whether there are rapids when thorough 
oxidation can take place. Much will also depend on the flora of the river, e.g., 
whether many green plants are present which can assist oxidation. 

Mutual Effects upon each other of Sewagfe and River 

Flora. Our knowledge of the mutual effect upon eacli otlier of sewage and 
river flora is, however, limited. From the careful researches of Kolkwitz^^ 
we know that thorough oxidation and consequent breaking down of 
putrefactive matters in sewage is inimical to the growth of sewage fungus such 
as leptomitus lacteus. On the otlier hand it may well be that many green river 



*' " The Course and Nature of Fermentative Changes in Natural and Polluted Waters and in 
Artificial Solutions, as indicated by the Composition of the Dissolved Gases." Scientific Trans- 
actions of Royal Dublin Society, 1895 — 7. 

**" Recent Advances in the Bacteria- Chemical Study of Sewage and other Polluted Waters." 
Dublin, John Falconer, 53, Upper Sackville Street, 1896. 

" " Mitteilungen aus der Koniglichen Priifungsanstalt." Berlin, Heft 2, p. 34. 



116 FOWLER 

plants flourish, like the ulva latissima of Belfast Lough, on nitrates and con- 
sequently it is conceivable that even a well purified effluent may in certain cases 
unduly encourage the growth of weeds. No doubt where possible the manurial 
value of the nitrates should be used judiciously upon the land. In the case of 
the Manchester Ship Canal and other streams one could mention there is not 
likely to be an excess of nitrate for some time to come. 

In the very interesting report to the Royal Commission on their investiga- 
tion of the River Severn in the Shrewsbury District, Professor Boyce and 
Doctors Griinbaum, MacConkey, and HilP^ carefully discuss the various 
influences at work in the self purification of rivers. The researches of Spitta ^^ 
are also of considerable value in this direction. 

The investigation of the sediment at the bottom of a stream is of the 
very greatest importance. An instructive case is cited by Marsson^^ of an 
effluent from a works producing nitro-naphthalene. The effluent, when diluted 
by cooling and condenser water, was apparently harmless to fish under the 
conditions at the point of discharge. On investigation of the mud near the 
outfall, however, it was found to have a strong smell of naphthalene products, 
and all signs of the organic life, necessary for the gradual breaking down of 
putrefactive matter, had disappeared. This effect was discernable 400 metres 
below the outfall. 

Arbitrary Limits of impurities fixed for Administra- 
tive Purposes. The whole conditions are so difficult that it is the custom 
of the various River Authorities to lay down limits of impurities which should 
not be exceeded by the effluent irrespective of the stream into which it flows. 
There is a gradual consensus of opinion however that these limits should not 
be merely empirical, e.g., so much oxygen absorption, so much albuminoid 
ammonia, but should indicate the actual condition of the effluent as regards its 
capacity of putrefaction, or to use Dr. Adeney's words, they should indicate the 
amount of " unf ermented organic matter " present. An effluent may contain 
high albuminoid ammonia for instance and yet be almost completely fermented, 
as is indeed often the case in effluents from strong domestic sewage. Thus the 
effluent from the installation in connection with the new Christ's Hospital at 
Horsham has an albuminoid ammonia of 033 and yet will hold its dissolved 
oxygen and support fish life.^^ A more striking case is that of the Calcutta 
experiments already quoted,^" where filtrates yielding, according to the published 
analyses, 1 or 2 parts per 100,000 of albuminoid ammonia were found to be 
non-putrefactive. 

The putrescibility of a filtrate may be determined by what is known as the 
incubator test, and by the dissolved oxygen test, already referred to, and which 
on account of their special importance may be here briefly described. The 

^° Second Report of Royal Commission. 

^'' Archiv. fur Hygiene, Band xxxviii. and xlvi. 

"' " Mitteilungen aus der Koniglichen Priifungsanstalt." Berlin, Heft 2, p. 28 — 31. 

^^ Journal of the Boyal Institute of British Architects, third series, Vol. xi., No. 8, p. 193. 

^"100. cit. 



SEWAGE PURIFICATION 117 

" incubator test " introduced into general practice by F. Scudder is simple and 
useful where no antiseptic agents are present in the sample. It consists briefly 
in determining the three minutes oxygen absorption test of the sample, com- 
pletely filling a small bottle with the sample, incubating at 22 — 26°C. for 
five or six days, and re-determining the three minutes oxygen absorption at 
the end of that time. If putrefaction has taken place the three minutes 
absorption will have increased owing to the easier oxidisability of the products 
of putrefaction, e.g., HjS. In general if the sample is a good one the three 
minutes' test is less after incubation, in consequence of the oxidation of organic 
matter which has taken place during incubation through the agency of dissolved 
oxygen or nitrates. 

The dissolved oxygen test consists in mixing the sample with enough 
oxygenated tap water to complete the oxidation of impurities, incubating for 
one or two days and determining the loss of dissolved oxygen. 

A rapid qualitative indication of the true purity of an effluent is afforded 
by the addition of a trace of methylene blue sufficient to faintly colour the 
sample. On keeping the coloured sample for a few hours in a closed bottle 
at incubation temperature the blue colour quickly disappears if the effluent is 
putrefactive.*^ The test has quantitative possibilities about it which have yet 
to be worked out. 

Although the incubator test and the dissolved oxygen test are of the greatest 
value, it is necessary to mention that they are subject to certain limitations 
which have yet to be investigated, due to the effect of certain trade-effluents 
either on the oxygen present or on the bacteria. Used with judgment they are 
in my opinion the best criteria of the purity of an effluent. 

Concluding^ Remarks. From a careful examination of effluents by tests 
of this description, and by giving at the same time thorough consideration to 
the conditions existing at and near the point of discharge, the necessary degree 
oi purity for every case should be capable of being exactly assessed, and thus 
the limit of necessary expenditure defined. For in my view the sewage problem 
is essentially a cost problem. 

It is comparatively easy in the light of our present knowledge to purify 
sewage to any degree of purity provided cost does not enter into the question. 
The true solution is to purify sewage to ivell within the liviits of safety for any 
given set of conditions at the lowest possible cost. 

I am conscious that this lecture has been of a very sketchy and fragmentary 
nature. Many questions which I have had to dismiss with the briefest refer- 
ence are in themselves sufficient for an extended discussion. But I trust I 
have been able to show the wide field which is open for exact scientific 
investigation. The necessary urgency of the case I has compelled much of 
the experimental work done in recent years with regard to the purification of 
sewage to be largely empirical in its character. 

The sewage problem, like any other scientific or practical question can only 
be solved by the patient and thorough elucidation of facts. 



Spitta. ArcMv fur Hygiene, Band xlvi. 



118 FOWLER 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

In studyiug the subject of Sewage Purification the following publications may be usefully 
consulted :— 

"Reports of the Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal." Nos. 1,2, 3 and 4, with appendices. 
1898—1904. 

" Reports of the Massachusetts State Board of Health." 1896— 19a3. 

" The Experimental Bacterial Treatment of London Sewage." Clowes and Houston. 

" Reports on the Manchester Sewage Works." 1896—1904. 

"Sewage Works Analysis," by Gilbert J. Fowler. 

All the above can be obtained through Messrs. P. S. King & Son, Orchard House, Westminster. 

" Sewage and Sewage Purification." Rideal. 
"Purification of Sewage and Water." Dibdin. 
" Sanitary Record," a weekly journal. 

The above are published by the Sanitary Publishing Company, 5, Fetter Lane, London. 

"The Surveyor." Issued by Horace Marshall & Son, 125, Fleet Street, E.C. 

" Gesundheits Ingenicur." Published by Oldenbourg of Berlin, Gliickstrasse 8. 

"Archiv. fiir Hygiene." Oldenbourg, Berlin. 

Dunbar and Thumm. " Beitrag zum derzeitigen Stande der Abwasser-reinigungsfrage." Olden- 
bourg, Berlin. 

Farnsteiner, Buttenberg and Korn. " Leitfaden fiir die Chemische Untersuchung von Abwasser." 
Oldenbourg, Berlin. 

" Mitteilungen aus der Konig lichen Priifungsanstalt." Berlin, 

" Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie." 

" Revue d'Hygiene." 



Vaccination : 
Its Pathology and Practice. 



BY 

V S. MONCKTON COPEMAN, 

M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P., D.P.H., F.R.S. 



Vaccination: Its Pathology and Practice. 

Introduction. 

As a preliminary to the consideration of questions relating to tlie practice and 
pathology of Vaccination it is perhaps desirable to define as accurately as 
possible what, at the present time, we understand by the term vaccination in 
the Jennerian sense. This is the more necessary seeing that of recent years, in 
cousequence of the writings of Pasteur and his pupils, the word has 
come to be commonly employed in a wide sense to signify the inoculation of 
nfective material of any l^kind. But in its narrower significance, as 
introduced by Jenner, vaccination may be defined as the term originally devised 
for a method of 'protective inoculation against small-'pox, consisting in the 
intentional transference to the hu7nan subject of a disease of milch-cattle, called 
cow-pox. In similar fashion, to the serous fluid containing the specific virus 
of vaccinia which he obtained from vesicles on the teats or udders of cows 
suffering from this disease, Jenner gave the name of " Vaccine-lymph." 

Consideration of the pathological questions raised by the wording of my 
definition, I will, however, defer to a later section of my paper. 

VACCINATION. 

Historical Remarks: Leg^isiation and Adnninistration. 

As is, of course, well known, the introduction of Vaccination dates from the 
publication, in 1798, of Dr. Edward Jenner's historic pamphlet, the original 
dj;fift of which had shortly before been rejected by the Royal Society. It is 
doubtless true that Dr. Jenner had been to some small extent anticipated by 
Jesty and others in the employment of the virus of cow-pox as a prophylactic 
against small-pox, but he it was who first realised the possibility of carrying on 
the disease through a series of human beings, by transferring the contents of 
the vaccine vesicles from arm to arm, and who, by his strenuous advocacy of 
the methods introduced by himself, first brought the matter prominently before 
the public. Early in the following year (1799) an extensive series of public 
vaccinations were initiated in London, mainly as the result of which Dr. Jenner 
was enabled to state, in 1801, that upwards of 6,000 persons had been inoculated 
with the virus of cow-pox, and that the far greater part of them had since been 
inoculated with that of small-pox, and exposed to its infection in every rational 
way that could be devised, but without effect. For this rapid extension of the 
practice of Vaccination Dr. Jenner was not a little indebted to the activity and 
enthusiasm of Dr. Pearson of St. George's Hospital, and Dr. Woodville of the 
Small-pox Hospital, who, when Jenner's stock of original lymph had come to 
an end, and opportunity for replenishing it did not immediately offer, were 
enabled, as the result of their discoveries of cow-pox outbreaks in various parts 
of London, to start independent series of vaccinations. In 1802 Dr. Jenner's 



122 COPEMAN 

discovery was brought to tlie notice of the Legislature, with the result that a 
Committee of the House of Commons, after examining a number of witnesses 
eminent in the profession, issued a report entirely corroborative of Dr. Jenner's 
statement. In 1806, again, in consequence of an address to the King, voted by 
the House of Commons, the Royal College of Physicians of London were 
instructed to inquire into the matter. Concerning the outcome of this inquiry, 
which extended over some nine months, it is stated in the Appendix to the 
Heport of the Select Committee on Vaccination of 1871, that " the College of 
Physicians felt it their duty strongly to recommend the practice of vaccination 
They have been led to this conclusion by no preconceived opinion, but by the 
most unbiassed judgment, formed from an irresistible weight of evidence that 
has been laid before them," Sir John Simon has placed it on record that in 
consequence of this report, which was presented to the House of Commons in 
July, 1807, " the public mind was apparently quite satisfied on the subject, and 
from this period begins to date the almost universal vaccination of children of 
the educated classes in this country." , 

In 1809 the so-called National Vaccine Establishment was founded, of 
which Dr. Jenner was at first appointed Director, although he shortly after 
resigned the post. From this period onwards, in spite of a certain amount of 
opposition, the practice of vaccination became gradually more popular. But 
notwithstanding the fact that the value of the operation received ample recogni- 
tion from Parliament, by whom its discoverer was substantially rewarded, it 
was not until the year 1840, in which the first Vaccination Act was passed, that 
the subject was dealt with by legislative enactment. By this Act, which was 
to some extent amended in the following year, every inhabitant of England and 
Wales was afforded the opportunity of obtaining vaccination at the public cost, 
although the question as to whether any person availed himself of its advantages 
or not was left entirely to his own option. Another important provision of this 
Act was that the operation of small-pox inoculation, which prior to the intro- 
duction of vaccination had obtained a considerable hold on the populace, was 
now prohibited, the transference of small-pox virus from one person to another 
being made a penal offence. Not until thirteen years later, in 1853, did 
vaccination become compulsory. The Act passed in this year made provision 
for the establishment of stations in each of the districts into which guardians 
and overseers were required to divide their unions and parishes in order to 
afford increased facilities for vaccination of the poorer classes. At these stations 
medical officers were to attend to perform the operation, and again for inspection 
of the result; and parents or others having charge of children, failing to cause 
them to be vaccinated, or, subsequently to vaccination, omitting to have them 
taken for inspection, rendered themselves liable to a penalty. Certain further 
enactments, to which specific reference is unnecessary, came into force in 1858 
and 1861. Six years later, in consequence of certain difficulties having arisen, 
more particularly in regard to the enforcement of penalties, a Bill to consolidate 
and amend the law relating to vaccination was brought before the House of 
Commons. This, after reference to Select Committee of both Houses, was 
passed, and received the Royal assent on August 12th, 1867. Hardly, however, 
had it become law before strenuous opposition to its provisions was raised, 
Parliament being eventually petitioned to repeal it. Under these circumstances 



ON VACCINATION 123 

a Select Committee, to which reference has already been made, was appointed 
in the session of 1871 to inquire into the operation of the Act. As the result of 
careful consideration of the evidence brought before them, the Committee 
reported that in view of the great, though probably not absolute protection 
aft'orded by vaccination against attacks of small-pox, together with the almost 
absolute protection against death from that disease, it was the duty of the State 
to endeavour to secure the careful vaccination of the whole community. They 
were further of opinion, however, that multiple penalties should not be imposed 
in the case of the same child. These suggestions were embodied in a Bill which 
passed the House of Commons, and after amendment in the Upper House, 
involving some disagreement between the two legislative assemblies, became 
law in 1871. By this Act the Local Government Board were substituted for 
the Poor Law Board and the Lords of Her Majesty's Privy Council in the 
administration of the Vaccination Acts, and the powers of the Board were 
extended. Under the provisions of this Act and a further Act of 1874, the 
Local Government Board, in October of the latter year, issued an Order regulat- 
ing the appointment, tenure of office, duties, and remuneration of vaccination 
officers, and also the institution and conduct of proceedings by them. In 
February, 1887, an Order dealing with the duties of public vaccinators was 
issued by the Board, and in February of the following year (1888) yet another 
Order altered the age limits at which re-vaccinations could be performed at the 
public expense. 

Meanwhile, however, opposition to vaccination had been steadily increasing, 
and the administration of the Vaccination Acts became more and more difficult. 
Thus, although in the year 1872, the first year for which complete returns were 
made after the passing of the Act of 1871, the number of children in England 
and Wales whose vaccination was not finally accounted for amounted to 51 per 
cent, of the total number of births, and the same percentage was unaccounted 
fpr in 1883 ; subsequent to this date the percentage of cases not fully accounted 
For mounted gradually higher and higher. 

It was under these circumstances that Mr. Eitchie, the then President of 
the Local Government Board, came to the conclusion that further investigation 
of the whole subject from every possible point of view was desirable, and 
accordingly in May, 1889, a Hoyal Commission was appointed, consisting of 
fifteen members, under the presidency of the late Lord Herschell. The terms 
of reference were as follows: — To inquire and report as to (1) the effect of 
vaccination in reducing the prevalence of and mortality from small-pox; 
(2) what means, other than vaccination, can be used for diminishing the 
prevalence of small-pox, and how far such means could be relied on in place of 
vaccination; (3) objections made to vaccination on the ground of injurious 
effects alleged to result therefrom, and the nature and extent of any injurious 
effects which do, in fact, so result; (4) whether any, and if so what means 
should be adopted for preventing or lessening the ill effects, if any, resulting 
from vaccination; and whether, and if so by what means, vaccination with 
animal vaccine should be further facilitated as a part of public vaccination; 
(5) whether any alterations should be made in the arrangements and proceedings 
for securing the performance of vaccination, and in particular in the provisions 



124 COPEMAN 

of the Vaccination Acts with respect to prosecutions for non-compliance with 
the law. 

After sittings extending over a period of six years the Royal Commission 
published their final Report in August, 1896. Once again the value of vaccina- 
tion as a protection from small-pox was re-affirmed, the actual amount of such 
protection being declared to depend on the efficiency and thoroughness of the 
operation and its repetition after an interval of from seven to ten years. Injury 
following on the operation was declared to have been insignificant in the past, 
and under better precautions, which should be adopted in the future, likely to 
disappear completely. Certain suggestions also were put forward as to the best 
means of popularising vaccination, and as to alterations in regard to the inflic- 
tion of penalties on defaulters, and the affording of a loophole to the " conscien- 
tious objector." 

Purification and preservation of Vaccine-iynnpli, 

Before this Royal Commission I had the honour of giving evidence, mainly 
in reference to the outcome of research work which I had been carrying on for 
several years previously. This work had dealt with methods of testing the 
potency of various kinds of lymph, whether of human or bovine origin, and 
their relative protective powers against the virus of small-pox, and more 
particularly with the question of the purification and preservation of vaccine 
lymph derived from the calf. 

Years before, the occurrence of certain fatal cases of erysipelas, following 
on vaccination, in the practice of the then public vaccinator at Norwich, 
concerning the origin of which an official inquiry was held at the time, had, 
boy though I then was, made a great impression on me. When commencing 
work on the svibject of vaccination, the remembrance of this unfortunate event 
caused me to turn my attention to the possibility of avoiding the accidental 
transference of erysipelas and other diseases from one child to another, in the 
operation of vaccination, by the substitution of some preparation of animal 
lymph for the arm-to-arm method of vaccination with human lymph, which, 
prior to the passing of the Vaccination Act of 1898, was the only method 
officially recognised outside the metropolis. 

On making inquiry into the matter, I found that there prevailed very 
commonly an idea that the use of crude calf lymph was undesirable for the 
reason that it " took " more strongly than human lymph ; that, in other words, 
more reaction and more generally " bad " arms were believed to be likely to 
result in cases vaccinated with lymph of bovine origin. In the course of a 
lengthy series of bacteriological inoculations of different culture media from 
various samples of vaccine lymph, carried out originally in the hope of isolating 
the specific contagium of vaccinia, I found that my culture tubes were apt to 
show abundant growth of micro-organisms which proved to be in no sense 
peculiar to vaccine lymph, consisting in part, indeed, of forms apparently 
identical with certain microbes commonly associated with suppurative pro- 
cesses. Moreover, a further point was noted that in plate cultures inoculated 
from specimens of fresh calf lymph the number of individual colonies which 
resulted was almost invariably much greater than in similar plate cultures, the 



ON VACCINATION 125 

nutrient medium of wliicli liad been inoculated with an equal quantity of fresh 
human lymph. And it appeared to me not improbable that this fact might 
have relation to the observed tendency of calf lymph to " take " strongly, to 
which I have already referred, and might be due, in turn, to the greater 
difficulty in keeping clean the skin of the calf, as compared with that of a child. 
The further fact was also noted that when vaccine lymph of either bovine or 
human origin was stored for any length of time in capillary glass tubes, the 
opacity which usually resulted after a longer or shorter period (an occurrence 
usually associated with deterioration of the efficiency of the lymph for purposes 
of vaccination) was due, in large part at any rate, to an enormous multiplication 
of extraneous micro-organisms, which found in the serum of which the liquid 
portion of the lymph consisted, a favourable medium for their continued growtli 
and multiplication. 

Glycerinated Lymph. 

With the object of obtaining, if possible, inhibition of these extraneous 
micro-organisms without injuriously affecting the specific contagium of 
vaccinia, and thus providing myself with material of more hopeful nature for 
the purposes of my research, I carried out, some years ago, a series of experi- 
ments, which were first demonstrated to the International Congress of Hygiene 
in 1891, and subsequently to the Royal Commission. The results have since 
been set out fully in the Milroy Lectures for 1898. To these experiments, 
therefore, it is unnecessary for me on the present occasion to refer in detail. 
Suffice it to say that eventually the desired result was obtained by submitting 
the epithelial pulp of the vaccine vesicle, after careful trituration, to the 
continued action of a sterilised 50 per cent, watery solution of chemically pure 
glycerine for about four weeks, such treatment having the effect of at first 
inhibiting, and ultimately destroying altogether, the numerous extraneous 
micro-organisms originally present in the lymph material. Later it became 
apparent that such an emulsion, if preserved and stored under favourable 
circumstances, of which a low temperature and protection from light are of 
special importance, was usually capable of retaining its efficiency as vaccine 
unimpaired for considerable periods. Still further investigations proved that 
not only was it possible to kill off all the bacteria ordinarily to be found in crude 
lymph material, but also the streptococcus of erysipelas and the bacillus of 
tubercle, even when, for experimental purposes, these micro-organisms had been 
added in relatively huge quantities to the lymph pulp prior to glycerination. 
Thus was gradually elaborated the method of ensuring the bacteriological 
purification of vaccine lymph to which the Royal Commissioners make reference 
in their final report, and which, as the result of further investigations carried 
out at their suggestion on behalf of the Government, has now been officially 
adopted in this country for the purposes of public vaccination. 

National Vaccine Establishment and Public Vaccination. 

In order to make adequate provision for the manufacture of glycerinated 
lymph on a sufficiently large scale it became necessary to revise and largely 
augment the arrangements previously in force under the auspices of the 



126 COPEMAN 

Government. Thus tlie Animal Vaccine Establishment in Lamb's Conduit 
Street, wliich had been founded in 1881 under the direction of the late Sir 
George Buchanan and Dr. Cory, mainly for the performance of vaccinations 
direct from calf to arm, was entirely renovated in order to comply with modern 
aseptic requirements, and provision was made for the accommodation of a 
largely increased number of calves. Also additional premises were leased of 
the British (now the Lister) Institute of Preventive Medicine, and what are 
now known as the Government Lymph Laboratories were founded. 

My late official chief, Sir llichard Thorne, and I, had previously, at the 
instance of the Government, made a tour of inspection of the principal vaccine 
establishments on the Continent, more especially those under Government 
control in Germany, where we found that the methods devised by myself had 
already been adopted. As the outcome of the practical experience thus acquired, 
supplemented by the results of a somewhat similar, although less extended 
series of visits made by Dr. F. R. Blaxall, subsequent to his appointment as 
Bacteriologist to the Department, the laboratories were equipped so far as 
possible with everything in the way of apparatus and accessories that appeared 
likely to prove useful in commencing operations on a large scale. Exactly how 
large that scale was to prove, however, we hardly realised at the time, and very 
considerable augmentation of the modest staff with which the work was 
commenced, and large expenditure for the installation of additional instru- 
ments, have been found necessary in order to ensure the enormous demand for 
lymph being met as promptly and efficiently as is now invariably the case. 

Each public vaccinator receives, in response to application made to the 
National Vaccine Establishment, a consignment of lymph, together with a 
schedule in which to record the results of its use, and these schedules, after 
having been examined at the National Vaccine Establishment, are sent to the 
laboratories. The schedules indicate the series number of the lymph, the date 
of its despatch from the National Vaccine Establishment, the name of the 
public vaccinator to whom it was supplied, the number of tubes sent, the dates 
when the several tubes were used, the number of persons vaccinated, the number 
of scarifications made, and the number of vesicles obtained. All these details 
are recorded at the laboratories, and from the last two items information as to 
the success which has resulted, both as regards individuals vaccinated and 
insertions of lymph made, is obtained and set forth, both in full and in the 
form of a percentage. In addition to these records a register is kept stating the 
particulars of the calves employed, the details of the lymph obtained from each 
calf, including the results of the bacteriological examinations, the results of the 
use of the lymph at the Animal Vaccine Establishment, and also the number of 
tubes of each series despatched to the National Vaccine Establishment. 

Statistical Returns. 

During the first year of operations nearly 500,000 tubes of glycerinated 
lymph were sent out from the Government Laboratories. Notwithstanding the 
difficulties that had naturally to be overcome in the inauguration of work of a 
character entirely new to practically all those engaged upon it, the success 
attending the use of the lymph at the hands of public vaccinators throughout the 
country was distinctly gratifying, the returns made by them to the National 



ON VACCINATION 127 

Vaccine Establishment showing that a case success of 93 per cent, and an 
insertion success of 83 per cent, had been attained. With a particular lymph series 
concerning which it became necessary to make special inquiry, and which had 
been distributed to 160 public vaccinators, the case success and insertion success 
were found to be 98 per cent, and 93 per cent, respectively. And at the present 
time it is by no means an unusual experience at the laboratories for returns 
showing complete case and insertion success to be received. 

Effects of the Vaccination Act, 1898. 

Under the provisions of the Vaccination Act, 1898, which came into force 
in January, 1899, for a period of five years, a period which has recently been 
extended for another year, and of the Vaccination Order (1898) of the Local 
Government Board, numerous changes in connection with vaccination adminis- 
tration and with the performance of the operation were introduced, in addition 
to the supersession of arm-to-arm vaccination by the use of glycerinated calf 
lymph. Thus, whereas by the Vaccination Acts of 1867 and 1871 the parent 
or person having the custody of any child was required to procure its vaccination 
within three months of birth, this period, by the Act of 1898, has been extended 
to six months. Again, no parent is now liable to a penalty under the com- 
pulsory clauses of the Vaccination Act who affords proof that he has, within 
four months of the birth of a child, satisfied a stipendiary magistrate or two 
justices in petty sessions that he conscientioiisly believes that vaccination would 
be prejudicial to the health of the child. Moreover in no case can proceedings 
now be taken more than twice against a defaulting parent, namely, once under 
Section 29 of the Act of 1867, and once under Section 31 of the same Act, 
provided that the child has reached the age of four years. When first pro- 
pounded, the so-called " Conscience Clause " was received with considerable 
opposition, ; but it is now, I think, generally admitted that the cause has 
jusiified its existence, since the operation has practically done away with 
"martyrdom," and so has weakened to no slight extent one of the principal 
weapons in the artnoury of the anti- vaccinators. 

Operative Procedure. 

The operative procedure in public vaccinations was formerly based on the 
necessity of carrying on a weekly series of transferences of vaccine lymph from 
arm to arm, this method having been originally introduced as the best means 
then attainable of insuring the activity and comparative purity of the lymph. 
In large urban districts, therefore, vaccinations were performed week by week 
throughout the year, while in small towns and rural districts quarterly or half- 
yearly periods, each comprising several weeks, usually sufiiced. In the latter 
cases material for starting the series was generally obtained by vaccinating one 
or more infants a week previously, and if fresh lymph for this purpose could 
not be obtained from a private case or through the good offices of a neighbouring 
practitioner, a few doses of human or calf lymph, stored in tubes or on points 
respectively, were provided on application being made to the National Vaccine 
Establishment. 



128 COPEMAN 

Again, for the purposes of arm-to-arm vaccination tlie provision of stations 
to which children were brought, first for the performance of the operation, and 
again after a week's interval for inspection of the results, was an essential. 
The occasional hardships to the mothers and a somewhat remote possibility of 
danger to the children involved in being taken long journeys to a vaccination 
station in bad weather, or arising from the collecting together in one room of a 
number of children and adults, one or more of whom might happen to be 
suffering at the time from some infectious disorder, are a few of the reasons 
which appeared to render a change in this regulation desirable; as a matter of 
fact, it would appear that nothing but good has arisen from the substitution of 
domiciliary for stational vaccination, coupled as it is with the use of glycerinated 
calf lymph, " or such other lymph as may be issued by the Local Government 
Board." It may here be mentioned, however, since the fact appears to be 
comparatively unknown, that it is not essential for a public vaccinator to 
employ the lymph issued by the Government unless the parent or person in 
charge of the child exercises his right of insisting on its use. But the public 
vaccinator " must not employ lymph supplied by any person who does not keep 
an exact record of its source," and in any case he " must keep such record of 
the lymph he uses for vaccinating," as will enable him always to identify the 
origin of the lymph used in each operation. Further, the operator is enjoined 
never, when he has unsealed a tube of lymph, to attempt to keep any part of its 
contents for the purposes of vaccination on a future occasion. Moreover, he is 
required to use an artificial blower for the purpose of expelling the lymph, 
instead of applying his mouth to the tube. 

Two other sections of the " Instructions to Vaccinators under Contract " in 
the third schedule of the Vaccination Order of 1898 are of special importance. 
One of these refers to the aseptic precautions with which every stage of a 
vaccination should be carried out. " These should include (1) the cleansing of 
the surface of the skin before vaccination ; (2) the use of sterilised instruments ; 
and (3) the protection of the vaccinated surface against extraneous infection, 
both on the performance of the operation and on inspection of the results." 
The other section to which I would specially refer requires that, whenever 
possible, four separate good-sized vesicles, or groups of vesicles, not less than 
half-an-inch from one another, must be produced, and that in any case the 
total area of vesiculation resulting from the vaccination should not be less than 
half a square inch. As regards the standard thus set up and insisted on in the 
case of those vaccinators whose work comes under periodical inspection at the 
hands of the Medical Inspectors of the Local Government Board, it may at 
once be admitted that there is no special magic in the particular number " four." 
But an area of half a square inch having been recognised in the Report of the 
Royal Commission as probably the least extent of vesiculation, absorption from 
which is capable of affording adequate protection to the individual against 
subsequent invasion by small-pox, the regulation requires that this area should 
be distributed over four insertions, mainly for the reason that experience has 
shown that less inflammatory reaction and permanent destruction of skin tissue 
is likely to ensue than if the attempt be made to secure the same area by means 
of a less number of insertions of lymph. 



ON VACCINATION 129 

Efficient Vaccination. 

This leads us to the consideration of what constitutes "efficient" vaccination. 
The answer may be summarised as follows : — The clinical activity and 
bacteriological purity of the lymph employed for vaccination; the skilful 
performance of the operation itself; the making an adequate number of in- 
sertions of lymph over a sufficient area; the observance of precautions needful 
for ensuring strict asepsis, both at the time of vaccination and subsequently, 
until the vaccination wounds are soundly healed; all these are matters to be 
regarded as essential to " efficient vaccination." But, as has been well said by 
a writer in the Edinburgh Revieio, " even after efficient vaccination a slow 
progress away from safety and towards danger is inevitable, and re-vaccination 
at least once after childhood is necessary if protection is to be maintained." 

As regards the carrying out of the operation itself, it is somewhat un- 
fortunate that there exists no official definition of what constitutes a " successful 
vaccination," and in consequence it is open to any practitioner to give a 
certificate of successful vaccination in cases where but one minute vesicle may 
have been produced. It is to be feared that such certificates are too frequently 
given, and it cannot be too strongly urged that vaccination of this sort involves 
incomplete protection. The standard laid down by the Local Government 
Board, and to which reference has already been made, has for the most part 
proved easily attainable in practice, and it is much to be desired that in private 
as in public work the attainment of this standard should be aimed at in every 
instance. The suggestion has been made that, in the form employed in 
certifying to the success of a vaccination, the medical man performing the 
operation should be required to state the number of insertions of lymph made 
and the number of vesicles or groups of vesicles resulting therefrom. But it 
does not appear that the value of such a regulation would be very great in the 
absence of a further regulation requiring that all vaccinators, public and 
private alike, shall conform to a definite standard. The further suggestion has 
been made that every medical man should become a public vaccinator, to the 
extent that he should have the right of claiming a fee from public funds for 
every vaccination performed by him, provided that he was willing that his work 
should be subject to inspection on behalf of the Government. But the 
originators of this idea can hardly have realised the magnitude of the in- 
spectorial staff that would be required if such an arrangement were to be put 
in force. 

Preparation and Treatment of tiie Vaccinated Arm. 

The treatment of the arm, at the time of vaccination and subsequently 
during the progress of the case, is another subject which has aroused consider- 
able controversy, and concerning which much divergence of opinion would 
appear to exist. Thus, in some quarters, the initial cleansing of the arm is 
said to be objected to by the parents as a reflection on the care, or want of care, 
on their part, as regards the condition of their children ; but in general it is 
found that a little tactfulness in explaining the difference between ordinary 
and surgical cleanliness has sufficed to overcome the difficulty. In addition to 
this aspect of the case the friction employed in tlie process is of value in causing 



130 COPEMAN 

a sliglit capillary dilatation whicli undoubtedly contributes to tbe success of the 
operation. Water, soap and water, spirits of wine, or antiseptic solutions, of 
greater or less potency, containing boric or carbolic acid, lysol or perchloride 
of mercury, for instance, are employed by different operators for tbe purpose, 
of which, in all probability, a warm solution of boric acid is the most generally 
useful — a stronger antiseptic, such as corrosive sublimate, unless removed by 
the subsequent use of sterilised water or alcohol, being liable to exert a some- 
what deleterious effect upon the lymph. 

The method to be employed at the operation and during the maturation of 
the vesicles for the protection of the vaccinated area froin extraneous infection 
has not been defined by the regulations, for the reason that it appeared probable 
that each man would best attain the desired end by the same methods that he 
would ordinarily employ in the treatment of any other case of minor surgical 
injury. As was to be expected, therefore, the means adopted for the protection 
of the vaccination wounds have been very various, and different trade firms 
have undoubtedly reaped an extensive harvest by the introduction and energetic 
advertisement of special dressings of one and another kind. 

At the Government Station in Lamb's Conduit Street a dressing composed 
of a couple of layers of boric lint, kept in place by means of pieces of rubber 
strapping which do not entirely encircle the arm, is applied at the time of 
vaccination, and this is replaced by another exactly similar dressing when, a 
week later, the case returns for inspection of the result. But, whatever be the 
nature of the dressing, the free use beneath it of a dusting powder of boric acid 
has a most beneficial effect in preventing any undue amount of inflammatory 
reaction. 

Operation. 

Concerning the nature of the instrument best adapted for the purpose of 
vaccination I need only say that each operator will probably attain the greatest 
measure of success with that instrument to the use of which he has been 
accustomed. But, speaking generally, the less complicated it be, the better. 
Again, it is desirable that it should be formed entirely of steel, so that it may 
be readily sterilised by boiling or by heating to redness in the flame of a spirit 
lamp, the first method being preferable as not tending to injure the temper of 
the metal. 

The manner of operating which affords the most generally successful results 
consists in blowing out the lymph from the capillary tube in which it is stored 
on the surface of the skin at different points, the number and situation of which 
must correspond with those of the vesicles it is desired to obtain. The skin, put 
slightly on the stretch, is then gently scarified, through each droplet of lymph, 
with the needle or other instrument, first in one direction and then in another 
more or less at right angles to the first, the drawing of blood being avoided as 
far as possible. In this way the corium or superficial layer of the skin is 
thoroughly opened up and in some measure removed, and thus the emulsion is 
brought into intimate relation with the cells of the true skin beneath. Operating 
in this fashion, and employing lymph of normal potency, it is quite easy to 
obtain an area of vesiculation satisfying official requirements. Many operators, 



ON VACCINATION 131 

I find, reverse the procedure somewhat, first making their scarification and then 
rubbing on the lymph. But whether it be that some of the minute scratches 
are thus closed up as the lymph is applied, or whatever else the reason, certain 
it is that the results obtained are usually by no means comparable "with those 
following on the method of scarification through the beads of lymph previously 
dropped upon the skin. 

The operation having been completed, it is well to avoid too great haste in 
applying the protective dressing, especially if this be of the nature of an 
absorbent pad, or if it be impregnated with some powerful germicide, as in the 
case of sal-alembroth wool. Some little time necessarily elapses before complete 
absorption of the vaccine emulsion and the exuded lymph has taken place, and, 
to ensure the best results, a little exercise of patience is essential. With the 
object of hastening this period of drying, I, some time ago, devised a method of 
removing the glycerine from the lymph emulsion, after such time as bacterio- 
logical tests showed that it had fulfilled its purpose of destroying extraneous 
micro-organisms, and replacing it with an equal amount of an inert fluid of 
similar specific gravity. But the more rapid drying of the vaccinated area thus 
obtained appeared hardly to compensate for the extra trouble involved in the 
special preparation of the lymph. 

Vaccination Scars. 

When every care has been taken to protect the arm during the progress of 
the vaccination, and to prevent the premature detachment of the crusts, the 
amount of permanent scarring of the skin which remains may be astonishingly 
slight. This is, I think, one of the results of our present methods of vaccination 
to which, as yet, attention has hardly been sufficiently directed, although in 
the future it is likely to prove a matter of considerable importance. There can 
be little doubt but that the huge and deep scars which not infrequently 
resulted from the vaccination of former years, were due, to some extent, to 
excessive destruction of skin tissue by micro-organisms other than that specific 
to vaccinia. If this be so, then it becomes apparent that persistence of such 
large and deep scars, practically throughout life, does not necessarily afford 
evidence that any equivalent degree of immunity against the infection of 
small-pox is enjoyed by their possessor. 

Recent Statistical Returns. 

The question naturally arises as to whether appreciable advantage to the 
community can be proved to have resulted from the adoption of our more 
modern methods of vaccination. It is for several reasons somewhat difficult 
to give, as yet, any very definite answer, although such statistics as are at 
present available are decidedly encouraging. There can be no doubt, as will 
be seen from the figures set out in the forthcoming lieport of the Medical 
Officer to the Local Government Board, that the operation of the Vaccination 
Act of 1898 has been accompanied by a very considerable increase in the 
number of vaccinations performed, although it should be borne in mind that 
this increase was, in the earlier years, in some degree at any rate, to be 
accounted for by the vaccination of cases previously in default, a source from 
which it is unlikely that the figures can be continuously augmented. None the 



132 



COPEMAN 



less, however, it is matter for satisfaction that the vaccination of these out- 
standing cases should have been secured. In 1902, an epidemic of small-pox 
was accountable for a specially large amount of vaccination and re-vaccination. 
From a return presented to the House of Commons on August 6th, 1900, 
we learn that in the year 1899, the first during which the Act of 1898 was in 
force, the number of certificates of successful primary vaccinations received 
showed an increase of 169,035, or no less than 338 per cent., over the figures 
for the previous year. Later returns exhibit continued and marked increase 
in the total number of certificates of successful primary vaccination, at 
all ages, as shown in the following table : — 

1898 ... 

1899 ... 



1900 
1901 
1902 



500,314 
669,349 
676,807 
710,785 
826,771 



But there is another source from which we may learn something as to the 
value of modern methods of vaccination. I refer to the Annual Reports of the 
Registrar-General, under the heading " Deaths attributed to cow-pox and other 
effects of vaccination." For a series of years deaths thus registered averaged 
one every week for the whole of England and Wales, but whereas in 1889 and 

1892 the actual number of deaths included under this heading was 58, and in 

1893 it was 59, in 1900 the number was 25, while in 1901, the last year for 
which data are available, the figures had sunk still further to 17. 



II.— ETIOLOGY OF VACCINIA AND VARIOLA. 
Pathologry of Vaccinia. 

I may now revert to the pathological questions raised by my definition of 
"vaccination"; and, as a preliminary and without going into great detail, it 
may be well in the first place, to set out some account of the chief macroscopic 
appearances which are to be observed in the skin during the local development 
of the vaccine vesicles. As the experimental observations, by Dr. Gustav Mann 
and myself,* on which the histological portion of this account is based, were 
made, for obvious reasons, on material obtained from the calf, it should be 
borne in mind that in this animal the whole process of vaccination runs a 
distinctly shorter course than in the human being, a fact that is probably in 
some measure dependent on the normally higher body-temperature of the calf 
as compared with that of man. Thus, in the human subject the vaccine vesicle 
ordinarily attains maturity on the eighth day [(24 hours x 7) = 168 hours], while 
in the calf the vesicle will have attained a similar stage of development on the 
sixth day [(24 hours x 5) = 120 hours.)] 

Although doubtless well known to all here present, I may, perhaps, in the 
first place, briefly note the varying naked-eye appearances of the vaccine vesicle. 
Within an hour after vaccination, more particularly in the calf, the skin 
immediately bordering on the inoculation wound not infrequently becomes 

•Annual Report of the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board, 1898-99 — Appendix C. 



ON VACCINATION 183 

somewhat raised, owing to a transient local urticaria. This, however, rapidly 
passes off, and, in the human subject, practically no further change becomes 
obvious before the third day after the insertion of the vaccine lymph, by which 
time a small inflamed spot or " papule " may usually be observed at the point 
where the vaccination was performed. Next day this spot appears more florid, 
and on passing the point of the finger over it a certain degree of hardness and 
swelling is perceptible. By the fifth day the papule develops into a small, pale 
vesicle. This vesicle has a milky white colour, it is eventually somewhat 
depressed in the centre, and its edges are distinctly elevated above the level of 
the surrounding skin. As yet the vesicle has no inflammatory zone around it. 
For the next two days the vesicle increases in size ; assuming, if the vaccina- 
tion was performed by the method of puncture, a circular form ; if done by an 
incision, an oval shape. But in both cases the margin is regular and well 
defined. About the eighth day an inflammatory zone of a bright red colour, 
termed the "areola," begins to appear around the base of the vesicle; this 
increases in extent for two or perhaps three days more, by which time it may 
extend for about a couple of inches from the vesicle. The latter still retains 
its concave appearance, but a crust of a brownish colour will have commenced 
to form in the centre. By about the eleventh day the vesicle has attained its 
greatest magnitude, and the surrounding inflammation begins to abate. The 
fluid contained in the vesicle, or "pustule" as it is now called, which before was 
thin and transparent, becomes more viscid and somewhat turbid. After this 
period the whole becomes quickly converted into a smooth, shining, dry crust, 
of a dark brownish colour. This crust, unless forcibly removed, will adhere for 
a week or more and then fall off, leaving the skin beneath, apparently sound, 
but livid for a time, and afterwards more or less permanently scarred. 

Histologry of the Vaccine Vesicle. 

During the evolution of the local changes which result from the insertion 
of vaccine lymph beneath the surface of the skin, it is possible, as previously 
indicated, to recognise three more or less definite stages of papule, vesicle, and 
pustule. 

The same statement holds good with reference to the eruption of small-pox, 
whether this be local, i.e., due to intentional inoculation of the virus on the 
skin; or general, as the result of casual infection, with the exception that the 
edge of the vesicle resulting from inoculation is apt to be less regular in outline 
than is that of the vaccine vesicle. 

In each instance the appearance of the first or papular stage is brought 
about by inflammatory reaction, causing an increase of intercellular fluid, 
together with concomitant increase in volume and number of epithelial cells, 
of the rete Malpighii, more particularly. The papule gradually becomes 
enlarged by a circumferential extension of the same process, and owing to 
further changes in the cells first affected, vacuoles arise in the central portion 
of the papule, by the extension of which this ultimately becomes a vesicle. 

The vesicle is a multilocular structure, the dissepiments, by means of which 
its interior is divided up, being formed from the thinned and extended remains 
of the original epithelial cells. Owing to the fact that the process of vacuolation 



134 COPEMAN 

increases, for a time, more extensively at the advancing edge of the vesicle, tlie 
central portion remains somewhat less elevated, thus giving rise to the appear- 
ance termed " umbilication." 

At a somewhat early stage of the process, an outflow of leucocytes takes place 
towards the point of injury. In time, each blood-vessel becomes the centre of 
an aggregation of leucocytes, which, by the rapid increase in their numbers, 
eventually transform the originally clear inflammatory exudation into a puru- 
lent fluid. The vesicle is said now to have become converted into a 'pustule. 

By the thinning and ultimate rupture of its tubercle the pustule finally 
becomes unilocular. The turbid fluid contained in it now gradually dries up, 
and, together with the necrosed remains of epidermal cells, takes part in the 
formation of the crust, which, under the microscope, appears as a homogeneous 
mass which takes an intense colouration when treated with the ordinary 
laboratory stains. 

Meanwhile a regeneration goes on underneath the crust, the new epidermis 
being formed by an ingrowth from the surrounding stratum lucidwm. The 
extent to which the cutis vera has been involved determines the depth of the 
resulting scar. 

Bacteriology. 

The bacteriology of the vaccine vesicle, is a question concerning which on 
the present occasion nothing more than a short resume can be attempted owing 
to the immense amount of work on the subject which has been published even 
within recent years. 

It may be stated, however, that the evolution and development of the vesicle 
is usually accompanied by the appearance of vast numbers of bacteria of one 
and another kind, the ancestors of which were probably, to some extent at any 
rate, introduced beneath the surface of the skin at the time of performance of 
the vaccination, since the purer the lymph and the greater the antiseptic 
precautions observed in connection with the operation, the less as a rule will be 
the number of bacteria in the resulting vesicle. 

During the year 1897, I carried out, in conjunction with Dr. Blaxall, an 
exhaustive series of investigations on the bacterial flora of calf vaccine, with 
the outcome that, as the results of former work had led us to anticipate, and as 
has been repeatedly shown by other observers, calf lymph (or rather, vesicle 
pulp) may contain a large number of micro-organisms which are in no way 
concerned with its specific activity and to which, for this reason, I originally 
applied the term "extraneous." Those species which are most commonly met 
with are, morphologically and culturally, identical with the staphylococci found in 
pus, viz., the staphylococcus pyogenes aureas, albus, and cereus navus. Occasionally 
the streptococcus of pus may be present as also the staphylococcus citreus. It 
should be stated, however, that the fact that in vaccine lymph micro-organisms 
are found, which, under certain circumstances, are known to be provocative of 
suppuration, does not in any way imply that the lymph in which they occur is 
purulent, or that, if such staphylococcus-infected lymph were employed for 
vaccination of the human being, suppuration would necessarily ensue. 



ON VACCINATION 135 

Other microbes of a purely saprophytic nature that are met with, include 
the common hay bacillus, bacillus mesentericus, varieties of proteus, yeasts, 
moulds, and sarcinse. These, however, can for the most part be excluded by 
careful manipulation, so that in vesicle pulp, which has been collected with all 
due precautions, nothing is usually found beyond some one or more of the four 
first-named staphylococci, of which a white staphylococcus is perhaps most 
common, and possibly one or more yeasts. 

To the method of glycerination of the lymph, by the employment of which 
it is freed, prior to use in vaccination, from these "extraneous" micro- 
organisms, I have referred in an earlier section of this paper, but I may here 
refer to an improvement on my original method, devised by Dr. Green,* and 
consisting in the use of chloroform vapour, by means of which the process of 
purification is much hastened; thus rendering it possible to cope with sudden 
demands for large quantities of vaccine lymph such as are likely to occur at 
times of small-pox prevalence. But in ordinary routine work of lymph- 
production the extra labour involved in the use of the chloroform method would 
appear to afford hardly commensurate advantage. 

Discovery of a Bacillus possibly the cause of Vaccinia 
and Variola. 

In 1894 I showed, concurrently with Dr. Klein, though independently, that 
in specially stained specimens of vaccine lymph taken at a period antecedent to 
full maturity of the vesicles, the presence of bacilli of extremely small size and 
in practically pure cultures can be demonstrated. These bacilli cannot be 
found, or only with difl&culty, in mature lymph, for the reason, probably, that 
they have, by then, given place to spores. For some time it appeared impossible 
to obtain further evidence as to the role of these bacilli, as they altogether 
refused to grow on any of the ordinary culture media, and under either aerobic 
or anaerobic conditions, though this very fact obviously tends to show that they 
are not of a merely saprophytic nature. 

Cultures of these small bacilli, as also of apparently quite similar ones from 
small-pox material, were eventually obtained, in some few out of a large number 
of experiments, by inoculation into hens' eggs, which were subsequently in- 
cubated at a temperature of 37° C. for periods ranging from a fortnight to a 
month. Such cultures, however, almost invariably failed. 

Still, as recorded at the time, I was able in some instances to successfully 
inoculate calves with the contents of these eggs, and ultimately lymph, taken 
from vesicles at the third remove from the egg-culture, was successfully 
employed for the vaccination of a large number of children. For these reasons 
I came to the conclusion that the bacilli found by Klein and myself were, in 
all probability, specific to vaccinia and variola respectively, although for various 
reasons into which it is needless to enter here, my work in this direction can 
hardly be regarded as conclusive. 



•Proceedings of the Royal Society, Vol. Ixxii., pp. 1^, and Vol. Ixxiii., pp. 342—346. 



136 COPEMAN 



III.— RELATION OE VAEIOLA AND VACCINIA. 
Previous researches. 

It is evident from^Jenner's writings that lie believed vaccinia to be nothing 
more nor less than "small-pox of the cow," but his theory would appear not to 
have received general support even in his own day. And from this time onwards 
the value of the practice of vaccination has now and again been impugned by 
certain persons, on the plea that inoculation of one disease — "cow-pox" — could 
not be expected to exert any really protective influence against the ravages of 
small-pox, a disease supposed by them to be of totally different origin. And if the 
thesis of essential difference between these maladies were capable of demonstra- 
tion, no doubt the objection would be of considerable weight, and vice versa. 
Accordingly, during the long period which has now elapsed since the introduc- 
tion of vaccination, many observers have set themselves the task of attempting, 
by experimental methods, to solve the problems of the true relationship of 
variola to vaccina. These attempts have, almost without exception, been 
directed to the possibility of giving rise to cow-pox by the introduction, in one 
or another manner, of the virus of small-pox into the system of the bovine 
animal. In the great majority of such attempts, which have been vastly more 
numerous than is generally supposed, the results have been entirely negative, 
although from time to time apparently successful results have been recorded. 
It is impossible, on the present occasion, to describe in detail the various series 
of inoculation experiments to which I refer, and indeed it is unnecessary since 
they are to be found admirably epitomized in the Einal Export of the last Eoyal 
Commission on Vaccination, to which, or (for a more detailed account) to my 
Milroy Lectures, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians in 1898, and 
since published in book form, I would refer anyone desiring precise information 
as to the actual methods employed and the results obtained. 

Some years ago. Sir Michael Eoster suggested to me that in view of possible 
deterioration of lymph-stocks, after employment through a long series of 
generations, it would be well , if possible, to devise some practicable means of 
investigating the efficiency of the protection afforded by some of those, then in 
use, against the infection of variola. 

Author's researches. 

The inoculation of small-pox on the human subject having been made a 
penal offence by the Vaccination Act of 1840, I bethought myself of the monkey 
tribe as possibly, on account of their similarity in many respects to man, being 
available for experimental purposes, although at the time I was assured, on 
high authority, that they were not susceptible to either vaccinia or variola. On 
putting the matter to the test, however, I was agreeably surprised to find that 
this was not the case, inoculations of both vaccine and variolous lymph having 
each of them given, in my hands, successful results in every instance in which 
I have tried them on the monkey. 



ON VACCINATION 137 

Experiments on Monkeys. 

Tlie method of operation wliicli I adopted in the first instance was precisely- 
similar to that usually adopted in the case of a vaccination on the human being, 
the seats of election in the monkey being either the upper arm or. the inner 
surface of the thigh ; the skin in either case having first been shaved to free it 
from hair. In the case of more recent experiments, however, the operation has 
been carried out by means of parallel incisions on the skin of the back, between 
the shoulder blades, where the monkey is least able to interfere, by scratching, 
with the normal evolution of the eruption experimentally produced. 

The chief difference noted between the effects resulting from the local 
inoculation of these two diseases is that in the case of variola, vesiculation is 
usually less marked than in vaccination ; that about the ninth to the eleventh 
day a general eruption may appear, which, in some few instances, has covered 
almost the whole surface of the body ; and that the final " crust " at the site of 
inoculation is not so elevated in the variolated as in the vaccinated animal. 

Having thus proved to my own satisfaction that monkeys are susceptible 
not only to vaccination but also to small-pox, I next determined to make trial 
as to the protection against small-pox afforded in the monkey by previous 
vaccination, and the protection against vaccination afforded it by variolation, 
and I went on to compare the effect produced by the use of human and calf 
vaccine respectively. 

Without entering into details of the numerous experiments which were 
performed at intervals of one to five months after the primary operation, 
whether vaccinal or variolous, I may state that in no instance did anything in 
the nature of a successful result follow the first or subsequent re-inoculations. 
From these experiments it would appear therefore that the protective power of 
lymph obtained from these three different sources, when inoculated on the 
monkey, so far as can be judged from the necessarily limited duration of the 
experiments, is practically identical in all respects. 

These experiments having demonstrated to my satisfaction that the monkey 
was available as a control in place of the human being, I realised that it would 
be possible to put to the test a point that had occurred to me some time 
previously, and which involved a modification of previous attempts at conver- 
sion of human small-pox into cow-pox. 



Experiments on Calves and iVIonkeys. 

I have already referred to the considerable difficulty experienced by myself 
and numerous other investigators in endeavouring to transmit human small-pox 
directly to bovines, whether cows or calves, and to the fact that this acknow- 
ledged difficulty has from time to time been cited with the object of discrediting 
the theory expounded by Jenner, that cow-pox, whether carried through the 
horse as intermediary or not, was originally derived from small-pox in the 
human being. 

But a great deal, at any rate, of the small-pox which was prevalent at the 
time that Jenner lived and wrote, was of that comparatively mild variety which, 
under the name of inoculated small-pox, was intentionally produced in healthy 



138 COPEMAN 

subjects, with the object of thereby conferring protection against subsequent 
attack by the disease in virulent form. So mild, indeed, at times, were the 
results of inoculations in the hands of such operators as Adams and the brothers 
Sutton that, as we learn from contemporary records, in many instances but 
little obvious effect was observed, with the exception of the local vesicle arising 
at the site of insertion of the small-pox virus, and the patients suffered but little 
inconvenience. Thus, more particularly in certain of Adams' cases, as may be 
gathered from his own account of the circumstances, the visible effect produced 
so closely resembled the results then beginning to be known as following on the 
Jennerian process of vaccination, that numbers of his patients were with 
difficulty persuaded that he had not, contrary to their desire, intentionally 
vaccinated rather than variolated them. The gradual evolution of a strain of 
lymph of such tenuity, according to Adams himself, was obtained by attention 
to the mode of life and general treatment of persons undergoing the process, 
together with careful selection of the " source " (preferably the " primary 
vesicle ") from which the virus was obtained. 

The majority of persons thus inoculated are not likely to have been in- 
capacitated as the result of the operation, to a much greater extent than are 
those who undergo efficient vaccination at the present day, and, doubtless, there- 
fore, they would be, for the most part, capable of following their ordinary 
avocations during the process of the induced disorder. On the other hand, this 
would have hardly been possible in the case of persons contracting small-pox 
in the ordinary way, among whom the disease was apt to exhibit such virulence 
as to account for the death of perhaps 50 per cent, of those attacked. 

Not only were the effects following on inoculation comparatively mild, but 
the disease, in this form, was intentionally brought into many country districts 
which otherwise might not have become invaded by small-pox. In the light of 
these facts, it had for some time past been borne in to my mind more and more 
convincingly that it was probably from the inoculated form of small-pox, rather 
than from the ordinary variety of the malady, that much, at any rate, of the 
cow-pox, in the pre-vaccination era was derived. It is not difficult to under- 
stand how the cracks so often found on the udders of cows might become 
infected by a milker with fingers contaminated by contact with the inoculation 
sore upon his arm, 

I determined, therefore, if possible, to put the matter to the test, and learn- 
ing that in Nubia, in Burmah, and in certain parts of India, the inoculation of 
small-pox is still practised, I made numerous endeavours to obtain the necessary 
material, but unfortunately without success. 

In default, therefore, of inoculated small-pox in the human subject, I made 
trial of the monkey, which, as I had previously shown is readily susceptible to 
the disease, the various phases of which in this animal closely resemble those 
observed in man^ but in a milder form ; the occurrence of a generalised eruption 
being exceptional. 

The different series of experiments, a complete record of which has been 
published elsewhere,* were carried out at intervals, determined mainly by the 
possibility of procuring the necessary small-pox material. For the various 

* Proceedings of the Royal Society, Vol. Ixxi., pp. 121 — 133 and 190, 



ON VACCINATION 139 

supplies received I am indebted to the Medical Officers of Health of Middles- 
borough and Glasgow, and to the Medical Superintendents of the Small-pox 
Hospital at Glasgow, of the West Ham Small-pox Hospital at Dagenham, near 
London, and of the Hospital Ships of the Metropolitan Asylums Board. 

The most satisfactory material was found to be vesicle pulp obtained in the 
post-mortem room from cases of discrete small-pox that had died during a 
comparatively early stage of the eruption. This pulp was triturated with 
dilute glycerine after the fashion employed in making glycerinated vaccine 
lymph, and the resulting emulsion was found to remain active often for con- 
siderable periods. Inoculation of this specially prepared small-pox lymph was 
usually carried out, as previously mentioned, by means of linear incisions on a 
previously shaved and cleansed area of the back of a monkey, between the 
shoulder blades. 

After two, three or more passages through the monkey the now strictly 
localised disease was transferred to the skin of the calf, further transferences 
from calf to calf to the number of two, three or even more, being usually 
required before the most typical vesiculation was obtained. 

The results of my experiments may be briefly summarised as follows : - — 

In each of four separate series of experiments the human small-pox lymph 
or pulp was first inoculated directly on calves, and, in every instance, so far as 
could be observed, with altogether negative results. But with monkeys, success 
was as invariably obtained, and when, after one or more passages through this 
animal, the contents of the local inoculation vesicles were employed for insertion 
on the calf, an effect was now produced which, after two or three removes in 
that animal, was indistinguishable from typical vaccinia. 

Vaccinia derived from Variola after passag^e throug^h 
Monkeys. 

Moreover, from the contents of vesicles raised in this manner on the calf, 
a number of children have, in turn, been vaccinated, some of whom were after- 
wards kept under observation for as long a period as a couple of months. 

Every such vaccination " took " normally, and in no case was any bad result 
subsequently observed by myself or reported by the parents of the children ; no 
"generalization" of the eruption occurring in any instance. But none of the 
strains of vaccine lymph derived originally from human small-pox in the 
manner described have been brought into general use. 

My first series of experiments had not long been concluded when I learnt of 
similar work which had been carried out in Batavia by Dr. Eilerts de Haan.* 
This proved of special interest to me, for the reason that, quite independently, 
we have been able to corroborate one another's work, except as regards the trans- 
ference of the strain of variola-vaccine to the human subject — a final test which 
Dr. de Hann did not, as he says, feel justified in attempting, in view of the 
unfortunate experience of Chauveau in connection with his abortive attempts 
at variolation of the cow. 

In conclusion I desire to call attention to the somewhat remarkable fact that 
a mild and strictly localised form of small-pox, such as is induced in the 

* Centralblatt fur liakteriologie" March 28th, 1899, p. 380, et seq. 



140 COPEMAN 

monkey by the inoculation of material from cases of the generalised disease in 
man, should, when transferred to the calf, " take " readily with the production 
of a vesicular eruption of non-infectious character in that animal, whereas it is 
well known that successful transference of small-pox, direct from man to calf 
can only be accomplished with the utmost difficulty. 

The experimental results obtained in the course of this research all tend, 
then, to confirm the view that the vaccinia of Jenner's time was derived, in all 
probability, from a comparatively mild form of human small-pox. 

In addition, I think it will be admitted that the work has afforded conclusive 
evidence of the essential identity of the virus of small-pox and cow-pox oi' 
vaccinia. 



On the Construction of Life-Tables, and on their 
AppHcation to a Comparison of the Mortality 
from Phthisis in England and Wales, during 
the decennia 1881-90 and 1 891-1900. 



T. E. HAYWARD, 

M.B. (Lond.); F.R.C.S. (Eng.) ; 
Medical Officer of Health for Haydock. 



On the Construction of Life-Tables, and on Their 
AppHcation to a Comparison of the Mortality 
from Phthisis in England and Wales, during 
the decennia 1881-90 and 1 891- 1900. 

Introduction. 

The subject-matter of tliis Lecture, which is honoured by being- accorded a 
place in the series of "Advanced Lectures on Public Health," inaugurated 
under an aegis so distinguished as that of the Victoria University of Manchester, 
can scarcely, in the nature of things, compete in general interest or practical 
usefulness with most of the other Lectures of the series. 

Yet, however distasteful descriptions and explanations of statistical methods 
may be, it must at least be conceded that without statistics the science of 
Public Health would scarcely have been founded, and that without them it 
would be scarcely possible to measure its progress. 

Without further preface or apology the present lecturer may be permitted 
to proceed with the task set before him, conscious, however, that the subject is 
one which lends itself to addressing readers rather than hearers. 

From the title of the Lecture it will appear that it may be divided into two 
parts : — 

1. An attempted description and explanation of some technical points 
relating to the construction of Life-Tables. 

2. A demonstration of the application of Life-Tables, among other methods, 
to comparing the mortality from some special cause, such as phthisis, in two 
successive decennia. 

It may be that the results set forth in Part II. will interest many who do 
not care to grapple with the explanations given in Part I. as to hoic these 
results have been obtained. 



44 HAYWARD 



PART I.— ON THE CONSTRUCTIOjST OF LIFE-TABLES. 

This course of Lectures being described as " advanced," some degree of 
knowledge must be assumed to be possessed by those addressed, as to what a 
Life-Table is, and how its different columns are built up from the foundation 
numbers of population and deaths. Moreover, the available limits of space and 
time would hardly suffice for a successful attempt to lead a student, in one 
lecture, from the starting-point of complete ignorance to the position of full 
knowledge of the subject. It may be possible, however, as the different parts 
of the subject are being successively dealt with, for the Lecturer to give such 
references to what has been previously written by others or by himself, as shall 
suffice to amply supplement the necessary deficiencies of this lecture. 

Construction of an Extended Life-Table. The problem of 
constructing an extended Life-Table practically resolves itself into calculating 
from the data the series of values tabulated under the heading of " the p^ 
column." 

Now j)j. simply means the chance, or probability, of surviving from age 
X to age ^ + 1, and is expressed by the ratio, 

number living at end of x^^ year of age 



number living at beginning of x^^ year of age 



If the conditions assumed in the familiar illustration of a ledger account, 
starting with a certain number of infants born on the first day of January in a 
given year, and supposed to be made up yearly, could be realized, then, when 
.the account, after a century or so, was closed, we should have the complete 
Ix and djc columns of a Life-Table, and the p^ values could be calculated from 
these. 

Thus, p^JjLl^J^, 

On the other hand if we had given the -p^ values, the l^, and dx columns could 
be calculated thus : — 

h^Px^ h+i ; and l^ - lx+\ = d^ 

As it is practically impossible to construct a Life-Table by this method of 
continuous observation, a method has to be used which assumes that rates of 
mortality at different ages, which exist simultaneously during a limited period 
of observation, will come successively to affect a supposed generation of 
individuals from birth to the end of life. 

In order to see how an absolutely perfect and accurate series of p^ values 
might be obtained from facts observed during a limited period of time, if the 
requisite conditions could be realized, let it be supposed that a census of the 
whole country had been taken at the middle of the year 1891, and that the age 
of every individual of the population had been accurately stated, also that the 
results had been correctly tabulated for each year of age. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 145 

We should then have what may be called a P^ column, P^ denoting the 
mean population for the year at age x to age x+1, who may be of any age at 
and over age x and under age x +\. 

Let it be further supposed that the numbers and ages of those who had 
died during the same calendar year had been recorded with equal accuracy for 
each year of age, thus giving a d^ column. 

(In order to avoid confusion of ideas it must be noted that the symbols P^ 
and dx, as applied to a census population and registered deaths, must Hbe 
distinguished from the same symbols as used in Life-Table terminology. In 
the latter case certain definite relations at successive ages are implied which do 
not exist in the former. 

When used with reference to an actual census population and death records 
the letters P and d simply mean population and deaths, some indication being 
always added of the ages to which they relate, but in a Life-Table, P^ and d^ 
refer to population and deaths in a single year of age, and another letter Q 
is introduced to denote population in a group of ages or the total population at 
any age and upwards.) 

When dealing with sufficiently large numbers, such as those in the case 
supposed would be, it would be found (1) that if the average age of all the 
individuals included in each of the Pj. groups were reckoned up, this would not 
for any year of age, except the first, differ very much from x + \; (2) that the 
average age of each of the d^ groups, except the first, would not be far from 
05+1; and (3) that apart from accidental disturbing influences, such as 
epidemics, the numbers of deaths would be nearly equally divided between the 
two halves of the year. 

Such being the case, it is easily seen that we may take l^^ that is the number 
living at the beginning of the year 1891 at exact age x, as represented by 
Px + \dx, and ?x+i, that is the number living at the end of the year 1891 at 
exact age a; + l, as represented by Px-ld^, and therefore. 

P, - Id ^ 2P, - d, 
^''~P, + U~2P, + d; 

If we may further suppose that the same process of census taking and 
accurate tabulation of Px and dx columns had been repeated in each of the 
succeeding years of the decennium 1891 — 1900, then the mean results wouhl 
serve to eliminate any disturbing influences in single years. Such an ideal 
mode of arriving at a series of p^ values is, of course, scarcely within the 
possibility of practical realization, but although unattainable, there are certain 
characteristics which we may almost certainly assume that a series of p^ values 
thus obtained would possess. 

1. When plotted out to scale on paper ruled into squares the series would 
become visible as points in a continuous curve (" the p^ curve ") without any 
breaks or angularities, or in other words, the successive 'Px values would change 
by gradual transitions. 

2. Suppose the numerical expressions of the px values (or preferably their 
logarithms) to be set down in a column, and that they are "differenced" by 
successively changing the sign of the upper of each successive pair of values, 
and taking the algebraical sum of the pair, the results being set down in a 
parallel column, we should have "the first order of differences." If a similar 



146 HAYWARD 

process be applied to tliis last-mentioned column, we should liave "the second 
order of differences," and so on. 

Let it be supposed that the process has been carried on until the last possible 
difference has been obtained. It is obvious that if we had given only the first 
term of the series, and the leading differences in a line with it, the original series 
of px values could be readily reconstructed, that is, it is as easy to obtain the 
terms from the differences as the differences from the terms. 

To deal thus, however, with a continuous series of terms numbering a 
hundred or more would be a practicable impossibility. Suppose, therefore, 
that the whole series were to be split up into sections of ten or twenty each, and 
that the values for the first five years of age were eliminated. It would be 
found in each of the sections that the orders of differences after the first five 
or six became very small, so small that they might be neglected, that is to say 
that the original series of p^ values might be reconstructed, without any very 
material variation, by only taking into account five orders of differences. 

When we turn from the ideal to the actual we find that the data practically 
available for calculating the series of p^ values are population and death 
numbers (1) not given for each separate year of age but in groups of ages, and 
(2) vitiated by mis-statements of age in the census returns and in the death 
registers. The latter point has simply to be mentioned and left. 

The problem then is to so deal with the foundation numbers of population 
and deaths given in age-groups as to obtain a series of ]px values for each year 
of age, conforming as nearly as may be to the conditions already laid down for 
the ideal curve. 

It is, of course, obvious that it is easy to obtain a series of values each one 
expressing the mean chance of surviving a year in an age-group ^ to .^• + n, from 
the total population and death numbers for the age-group, by the formula 

-•■t^x to z+ii. ~ Q^a to a+»i 

2'a to a; + n = 9 » i ,7 ^ 

^■Lx to x+n -rOx to x + n 

(In order to avoid this somewhat cum^brous notation it is proposed from this 
point to use the symbol xin instead oixto x + n. Thus the above formula may 
be written 



Pxjr^ 



-'■^x/n ^xjn 
-'^xjn + (f'x/n 



It must be understood that whatever ^ as a suffix means, xjn means that same 
thing for a group of persons beginning at age a; and going on for n years 
beyond. 

Thus px meaning the probability of people aged x living one year, p^c/n 
would mean the probability of an n-year group, heginning with age x, living 
for one year, not the probability of persons aged x living for n years. 

Similarly E^^ denoting the mean after-lifetime of persons aged x, E^/n 
would denote the average after lifetime of a number of persons included in a 
group of ages beginning with age x and going on for n years beyond). 

If such a series of values be represented diagrammatically, instead of a 
continuous curve, we shall have a series of straight lines which, when their 
extremities are joined, will show step-like ascents or descents. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 147 

It will be obvious that any yearly series of p^. values deduced from the 
data in groups of ages should not only conform to the conditions already laid 
down for an ideal p^ curve, viz., that (1) when plotted out they must indicate a 
curve without breaks or angularities, and (2) when differenced they must show 
regular graduations of differences, such diflterences after the first few orders 
becoming very small, but also (3) the continuous curve must have some rational 
relation to the diagram of mean f^j^ values. 

Graphic Method. One mode of dividing up the numbers of population 
and deaths given in age-groups into numbers belonging to each separate year 
of age is the so-called " graphic " method employed by Milne in the construction 
of the Carlisle Life-Table, and (as well as by others) by Dr. A. Newsholme in 
the construction of his two Brighton Life-Tables. 

For a full description of this method see Newsholme's "Vital Statistics," 
third edition, pp. 265 — 269, and a paper by Drs. Newsholme and Stevenson in 
" The Journal of Hygiene," Vol. iii., No. 3, July, 1903. 

However, if the y^ curves taken from the Life-Tables which have been 
constructed in this way be tested by the metliods previously indicated, there are 
none of them, with the exceptions of Dr. Newsholme's second Life-Table for 
Brighton, and Dr. Barclay's Life-Table for New Zealand, 1891 — 95, which give 
at all satisfactory results, and these latter have been made satisfactory by 
departures, to some extent, from the original method. 

Method of " Finite Differences." The " graphic " method is 
one way of measuring, but there is another and much more accurate way of 
measuring, by employing interpolation by the method of " finite differences." 

If anyone will take the trouble to set down a series of say six numbers and 
difference them by the method already indicated, and then proceed, from the 
first term of the series and the five differences in a line with it, to reconstruct 
the series of numbers originally given, the first step will have been taken 
towards comprehending what is meant by interpolation by the method of finite 
differences. 

If he will then test the following three formula by the concrete numbers 
and differences before him a sufficient knowledge of the theory of interpolation 
will have been obtained. Let the six given numbers be denoted by the symbols 
«o, Wi . . . w„, and tlio line of difFcrcnccs opposite to Uo hy the symbols 
8m,„ ^u„ . . . 8V,5 then 

(1) u^ = u.„ + .•8«„ + -^^^^^SX + •^^:^|i:ii)83„, + . . . . 

This formula follows the law of the Binomial Theorem. If it be expanded 
and reduced to its simplest form, it can be expressed by 

(2) u^ = A {i. e., u„) + Bx + Cx- + Djc^ + . . . . 

which means that each power of x has a constant cocjjicient, whatever the value 
of X. 

The next formula is what is known as " Lagrange's formula," by whicli 
having given any series of numbers (linear quantities) denoted by the symbols 

{x-a){x-b){x-c). . (x-o){x-b){x-c) ... 

W «x- (o-a)(o-6)(o-c.. .'*'•"*' (a-o)(a-/^)(a-c) . ..""^ "■ 



148 HAYWARD 

Some elementary teaching as to interpolation is attempted in papers con- 
tributed to "Journal of Royal Statistical Society," Vol. Ixii., part 3, pp. 454 — 
464, and "Journal of Hygiene," Vol. ii.. No. 1. Those wlio may desire to go 
thoroughly into the matter may consult Bowley's " Elements of Statistics," 
pp. 242 — 249, and the chapters entitled " Formulas of Finite Differences," and 
" Interpolation," in the " Institute of Actuaries' Text-Book," by George King, 
F.I.A., etc. 

To return to the point at which it was supposed that perfectly accurate 
Px and dx numbers had been obtained for each year of age by exact census 
enumeration and registration of deaths. Let it be supposed that the compilers 
of these numbers had by some freak first of all for each year of age put the 
numbers in the form of two columns, giving respectively twice population 
minus deaths, and twice population plus deaths, and then, assuming the last 
age to have been 100, had added the values in each of these columns for age 99 
to those for age 100, and then the values for age 98 to the sum of those for 
ages 100 and 99, and so on, and then had finally published the figures in two 
columns giving the numbers of twice population minus deaths {2P — d), and 
twice population plus deaths {2P + d) , at each age x and wpif?ar^5, under headings 
respectively of " ^{x)" and " 4>{x)." 

It is obvious that from these two columns by taking their first differences 
we should obtain respectively the numerators and denominators of the px 
fractions. Thus 

^^~<f>{x)-cl){x+l)~2P, + d; 

Suppose, further, that instead of publishing the two columns giving respec- 
tively 2P — d and 2P+d at each age a; and upwards, the compilers had only 
published them for a few selected ages, say for ages 4, 5, 10, 15, 25 ... 85 and 
upwards, it would then be possible, by formulae of interpolation, such as are to 
be hereafter given, to very nearly reconstruct the original complete series of 
values for each year of age from age 5 onwards. 

But it may further be supposed that the compilers had not troubled to 
publish the population and death numbers at all, but only the p^ values for the 
same selected ages, viz., 4, 5, 10, 15, 25 . . . 85. It would then be possible by 
interpolations in this limited series of p^ values to very nearly reconstruct the 
original complete series of such values. 

The processes of interpolation may therefore be applied, (1) so as to obtain 
from the foundation numbers of population and deaths, given in age-groups, 
values of 2P — d and 2 + ^ for each year of age, and from these the values of px 
for each year of age, or (2) so as to obtain values of 2P — d and 2P+d only for 
certain selected years of age, separated by intervals, and from these the 
corresponding p^ values, and then by applying the formulae of interpolation to 
these latter, the complete series of px values may be obtained. There are 
theoretical reasons for (1), but for practical advantage in working (2) is to be 
preferred. 

Interpolation may, of course, be effected in the population and death 
numbers at age .r and upwards tal-en separately, but for practical convenience 
it is better to take population and deaths in combination, arranged as 2P — d and 
2P + d at age a; and upwards. It is also best to apply the formulae not to the 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 149 

numbers but to the logarithms of the numbers, as it is only thus possible to 
obtain rational results in continuing the series after age 85. 

Let it be understood then that the symbols ^[x) and (f>{x) are used to denote 
respectively 2P — d and 2P + d at age a; and upwards, and tnat u^ =log ^(x) and 
U'x = log <f(x), also that the given values of x are 4, 5, 10, 15, 25 . . . 85. 

Suppose that in the u^ series we wish to interpolate u^. There are given 
eleven values of w^., viz., u^ . . . Uss, which may be considered as ordinates of a 
curve, the equation to which is a+ba; + cx^ + . . . + Jcx^^. If it wore proposed 
to fix the ordinate u^ with relation to the whole number of given ordinates this 
would entail very laborious calculations involving ten orders of differences. In 
the scheme to be afterwards explained it is only proposed to use six orders of 
differences, which means that the ordinate u^ is to be determined only with 
relation to the ordinates u^, u^, u^q, Wjg, u^s, W35, W45. When Wg is determined 
its numerical value is ^'(6), and \p{5) - \p{Q) = 2P^ - d^. Similarly <^(5) - <^(6) = 2P^ + d^. 

Therefore « ^l/l^hlM) 
inaeiore^5-^^g^_^^g^. 

and log p, = log(^(5) - ^(6)) - \og(j> (5) - <^(6)). 

Now '/'(5) - "/'(6), and ^(5)-</>(6), giving the numbers respectively of 
2P — d and 2P + d at and over age 5 and under age 6, may be considered as 
approximately the numbers at age 5|. 

Suppose, however, that we wish to determine the values of 2P — d and 2P + d 
at the exact age 5. This can be done by a simple application of the differential 
calculus, for the knowledge of which the writer is indebted to Mr. A. C. Waters. 

It is not possible here to make an attempt to explain the matter fully, but 
something may be attempted on the same lines as in a paper already contributed 
by the writer to the "Journal of the Royal Statistical Society," Vol. Ixiii., 
Part 4, December, 1900. 

The following brief explanation can only be completely intelligible to those 
who have some knowledge of the elementary principles of the differential 
calculus, but it may at least be partly comprehended by those who have not 
such knowledge. We have already used the symbols \p{x) and 4>{;x) to denote 
respectively 2P — d and 2P + d at age x and upwards. Therefore the numbers 
of 2P-flf and 2P + d in any age-group x to x + h will be denoted respectively by 
\p{x)-4'{x + h), and (f>(x)-(f>{x + h), and the mean chance of living a year 
possessed by those included in the age-group x to x+h will be represented by 

xl/(x) - xj^jx + h) 
<f>(x) — <f>{x + h)' 

By changing all the signs and dividing the numerator and denominator 
by h, this expression becomes the precisely equivalent one 

yp{x + h)- \p(x) 

h 

<l>(x + h) - <f>(x) 

A 

This is true for any value of h, no matter how large or how small; we may 

suppose, therefore, h to become smaller without limit until finally when h 



150 HAYWAliD 

vanislies, i.e., when li = o, or at tlie exact moment of age x, the expression 
becomes 

fOr) 

^'(.r) 2P -d n.i exact age a; 
^^^ <l>'{x) ~ 2P + ci at exact age x 
Therefore p'x, i.e., the chance of living a year which exists at exact age x, 

-<f>\xy 

In order to be able to calculate the values of ^'{jc) and i^' {x) the form of the 
functions ^ and ^ must be fixed. 

We have taken the common log of }p{x) as u^., and u^ is capable of being 
interpolated for any age (or value of x) in a series of -n- + 1 terms with n orders 
of differences. 

Therefore ^(^) = 10"^'"''"''"'" 
Now when this is the form of the function ^ it can be shown that 

f (^) = 10"+'"+""+ • • • X log.,10 X (6 + lex + 3c?^2 + _ . 

which may be written 

xp\x) = ^{^(x) X log.,10 X (6 + lex + Mx'^ 4- . . .) 
similarly 

</>'(^) = <^{x) X log.,10 X (^ + 2Cx + 3i)«2 + . . . ) 

' f (^) i^{x) X log„10 X (^ + 2cx + Mx"- + ■ ■ .) 
Therefore i? . = ^^ = ^^.^^ ^ ^^^^jq ^ ^^ _j_ g^^ + 32)^2 + _ ,) 

• Now although the suffix x is usually used to indicate the exact age, it may 
be also used to indicate relative distance in a series of ordinates. Instead of 
reckoning from birth as we may take any age as o and reckon by distances in 
years from it. Therefore, in any given series of u^ and Uy; values we may 
make any member of the series to be u^ and measure the distances of the others 
from it. For example in the series u^, u^, u^^, u^s, u^s, 1/35, W455 by taking 
Wg as Uo, the series becomes u_i. Uq, u^, ti^o, u^o, u^^, u^^, and the expression for 
jp\ is simplified to 

, i/'(o) X h 

a.nd\og p'q--={uo + log b)-{Uo + log B). ^ 

The problem, therefore, of calculating a series of log p'^ values is to be 
solved by (1) making each value of .2; to be o in the series of u^ and Ux values 
taken as the foundation series for the calculation, and (2) calculating by 
appropriate formulae the values of b and B for each value of x when taken as o. 

Since 2^'x is the chance of living a year which exists at exact age x, it may 
be taken as very nearly representing the mean chance of living a year possessed 
by the individuals included in any small age-group of which x is the centre, 
as the year of age x — \ to x-\-\. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 151 

It is thus possible to obtain a number of fixed points in the ji^ curve 
determined with absolute accuracy (in so far as the data are accurate), and 
from these the complete series for each year of age may be measured either 

(1) by a " graphic " process of drawing a curve through the given fixed points 
(i.e., log p'^ values) and measuring the ordinates 5^, 6i, 1\ . . ., or preferably 

(2) by interpolation. 

For a description of (1) see "Journal of Hygiene," Vol. ii., Nos. 2 and 3. The 
special applications of (2) which have been adopted in working out the Life- 
Tables in Part II. of this Lecture, are to be soon described. 

It has been thought desirable to dwell at some length on the theoretical 
principles underlying the construction of the y^ curve, as they are of essential 
importance, and it now remains to proceed to deal more briefly with other 
points. 

Compilation of the Data required for the Construction 
of a Life-Table. Reference may be made to " Journal of Royal Statistical 
Society," Vol. Ixii., part 3, pp. 446-447, or to "Journal of Hygiene," Vol. ii., 
No. 1, pp. 2, 3. 

Calculation of Mean Population Numbers from Census 

Figfures. On this point see paper by Mr. A. C. Waters in "Journal of 
Royal Statistical Society," Vol. Ixiv., Part 2, June, 1901, also papers in same 
Journal, Vol. Ixiv., Part 3, September, 1901, and Vol. Ixv., Part 2, pp. 356—358. 
Also "Journal of Hygiene," Vol. ii., No. 1, pp. 3 — 8. 

The method adopted for the succeeding Life-Tables is that of Mr. A. C. 
Waters, which is based on the two assumptions (1) that the population of the 
whole of England and Wales during the interval from the census of 1891 to 
that of 1901 changed in Geometrical Progression, and (2) that the proportions 
of the parts {i.e., age-groups or separate districts) to the whole was changing 
uniformly in Arithmetical Progression. 

On these two assumptions it can be shown that two constant multipliers 
" Tfi" and " n" can be attained, applicable respectively to the census numbers 
of 1891 and 1901, and that the sum of the multiples, whether applied to the 
whole or to the parts gives the true mean annual population, which, when 
multiplied by 10 gives the "years of life " for the decennium. 

Total Population at census of 1901 
^^'^*^" '■ " Total Population at census of 1891' 

, ,. r-\ 39r+l 
(r-l) + , .f. 



rA . log„r 
39r+l T-\ 



n= 40 log,r. 
r. r^". log,,r 
Bv applying these formulae to the total census numbers for England and 
Wales for 1891 and 1901 

32 527 843 



152 HAYWAED 

log er= 01147135351 ... 
7-A = 1-0028719455 . . . 
m- 0-544606333 
w = 0-456486649 
Total years of life for 1891—1900 = 306,434,848. 

Calculation of the i\ Values for the First Five Years 
of Agfe. Descriptions of tlie methods applicable to this part of " Life-Table 
construction " are to be found (1) in Dr. Newsholme's " Yital Statistics," 3rd 
edition, pp. 271 — 273 ; (2) in "Journal of Royal Statistical Society," Vol. Ixii., 
part 3, pp. 451 — 454; (3) in "Journal of Hygiene," Vol. ii., No. 1, pp. 10 — 14. 
The description in (3) is the most complete. 

Practical Working Formulj?:, Based on Theoretical Considerations 
Previously Explained, which have been used in Calculating the 
_Pa; Values of the Life-Tables given in Part II. 

This may be called Method 1. It is assumed that the numbers 
representing 2 F — d and 2P-\-d at age x and upwards have been compiled for 
the ages 4, 5, 10, 15, 25 . . . 85, and that the corresponding logarithms have been 
taken, these latter being denoted by the symbols u^ and Ux. 

It is first of all necessary to continue the u^ and Ux series to values for ages 
95 and 105. 

This is done by differencing the series u^^, u^^, u^s, Uj^ and u^^, and carrying 
down the differences for two stages. 

It is to be understood, so as to avoid needless repetition, that which is stated 
concerning the u^ series also applies to the Ux series. 

The log p'x values for ages 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 have been calculated from 
the series u^, u^, Wjo, Wis, u^^, u^s, u^^. 

The least laborious method is to interpolate u^^ and u^^ in this series, which 
may bs effected by the following formulae : — 

Let the following multiples of the respective Ux values be taken, and let 
each multiple of Ux be denoted by the symbol Vx 

1*4 X 625,000 =^4 

1*5 X 97,867 or 11(10,000- 1,103) = v^ 
u^^ X 223,696 or (44 x .5,084) =v^^ 

1*15x177,940 or 20(10,000 - 1,103) =i;i5 
1*25 X 139,810 0^' (11 ^ 12,710) =v^^ 

1*35 X 12,628 or 44(300-13) =1^35 

1*45 X 341 or (11x31) =^45 

r^. „ [IQVa + 6(Vi5 + V,5) + 2V,5] - [v, + 2(2v,, + V35)1 

inen 1*^0- 782,936 ■ 

, ,, 4V4 + n[{y,, + V25 + 3v3.,) - (3^5 + Vi5 + 5v,5)] 

ana 1*30- 1,565,872 

The arithmetical labour may be diminished by subtracting 1*45 from all the 
terms of the series, thus reducing itself to zero. The 1*20 and 1*30 of the formulae 
must then be added to u.,. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 



153 



Next let the seven equidistant terms u^, u^^, u^^, u^o, u^s, W30, u^^ be set down 
and differenced. If the differences be carried down for two stages W45 will be 
obtained and the correctness of the calculations for Wjo and W30 will be proved. 

Let the lines of differences opposite to w^, u^s, u^o and u^s be completed in 
the table, as shown in the following illustrative example in which, for the sake 
of space, the three extra places of decimals have been omitted. 



8-4128672 


A 
-616603 

- 685075 
-745121 

- 804532 
-863276 
-925145 


A2 

-68473: 

- 60045 : 
-59411 : 

- 58744 : 
-61869: 


A3 

+ 8428 
+ 634 
+ 667 
- 3125 


A4 

- 7794 
+ 33 

- 3792 


A5 

+ 7827 
- 3825 


A6 

-11652: 


8-3512069 


1-11652: 

" -11652: 

-11652: 

-11652: 


8-2826993 


-15477 
" -27129 

-38781 


8-2081872 


1 - 19269 
" -46398 


8-1277340 
8-0414064 


-22394 


7-9488919 







(In order to avoid the repetition of cyphers '. is used to indicate the end of 

seven places of decimals.) 

Then the values of h, when u^, Wm, u^^, Wjo and u^s are respectively made to 
be ^^o in the series, can be obtained by applying to each of the lines of differences 
in succession the formula 

bh = A?/q - i-A2//y + \^hl^ - \i\^u^^ + l^hi^ - iA6//Q. 

The result will be a — quantity, but it may be taken as + , and the division by 
5 need not be made, since 

-bb b 

As it is of essential importance to make perfectly clear the mode of calculating 
log p'x the following example may be given. 

In the above table we have Ug = 8-4128672: The application of the given 
formula to the line of differences opposite to u^ gives the result 56 = — 574099 : 8 
From the corresponding table dealing with L^j. values we have f/^ =8-4186377:, 
and 5i^= —571210:1. Therefore from the formula log po = {Uo + log^) — 
{Uo -\- log B) we have 

log/, = (8-4128672 +log 574099: 8)- (8-4186:377 +log 571210:1) 

= (8-4128672 + 2-7589874) - (8-4186377 + 2-7567958) 

=1-9964211. 

The calculations for the log f'^ values for ages 35, 45, . . .85 are much 
easier, as each is to be derived from a series of five equidistant terms of which 
the central term in each case is taken as Uq. 

Thus log p'a; is to be calculated from the series Wu, u^s, W35, 1^45, W55, in which 
M35 is taken as u^. The general formula for h in such a series is : — 

8(^10 -'^-10) -(^20 -^--20) 



h = 



120 



or, changing all the signs, and arranging for convenience in working : — 
- 1206 = 10(«_io - «,o) - [2(«-io - «io) + (''-20 - '^20)]- 



154 HAYWARD 

At this stage wc shall have obtained a series of log |>'^ values for ages 5, 10, 15, 
20, 25, 35 . . ' . 85. 

It is required to continue the series as far as age 105 and to interpolate 
intermediate terms corresponding to ages 30, 40 . . , 100. The following 
special formulae may be used for ages 30 and 40. (In order to avoid confusion 
it must be noted that in the following formulae u^ is used to denote log p'x.) 
[21(^., + 2owj5 + 50it^5 + lOwga) + u^^ - [\^Q{u^^^ + 6%,) + 15?a^^] 
'*^io^ " 672 

( 320«.3o + 1050^35 + 630?t^5 + 7/^,;,;) - (63^^^ + 525^^, + TSw^J 
«4o= " 1344 

which may be thus written : — 

5r(64^,o - ISi. J + 105(2.63, - u,^-\ + 7[9(10..,, - ..,,) + n,^ 
«4o- 1344 

The values of log p\q and log p'^ may be obtained by the following general 
formula for interpolating a central term u^ in a series of six equidistant terms 

^—5^ '^—3' ^— !» ^i> ''*3J '^5* 

300(w_^ + ^i) - 50(w_3 + u^ + 6(i^_5 + w,) 
^0= 512 

For example, the unit of interval being 5, 

300(^45 + «55) - 50(^35 + 16 J + 6(tt25 + V^^) 

^~ 512 

The following special formulae may be used for logp'-o ^^^ logP'so- 

30^,, + 30t6,., + 20^.,) - 5(4^-,, + u^:) 
^70 ~ 128 • 

fi(3^65 + 9^75 + ^85) - Ks + ^Q^7o) 

"so ~ 24 

Next by differencing the five equidistant terms Wes, w^o, W75, Wgo, Wgs) it is 
easy to carry on the series to W90, W95, w^oo and Wjos- 

Having proceeded so far we shall have a complete series of log ^'3. values at 
5-yearly intervals from age 5 to age 105. 

The next step is to interpolate in this series a further series of intermediate 
terms corresponding to ages 1\, 12| . . . 92^. 

The same general formula as that already given is applicable from ages 
17i to 92i. 

Thus, the unit of interval being 2\, 



_ 300(wj,^ + «9o) - 50(?^jQ + ^35) + 6(^, + ^30 ) 
«i7i- - 512 ' 

For iti2i and urj the following formulae may be used : — 

«12i = 1^ g^ J - «17J. 

r o<5 + ^20) + i5Ko + ^15) - 2o^i2n 

«^7j = [^ g J - -wirj. 

Having now obtained a series of logp'a- values for ages 7|, 12|, 17| . . . 92|, 
it may be noted that since the chance of living a year at exact age 7^ may be 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 155 

taken as tlie chance of living from age 7 to age 8, we may change the notation 
from log p'j. to log j^x, and we may use the scries of log p^. values for ages 
7, 12, 17 ... 92 to interpolate the required complete series for each year from 
age 5 onwards. 

The scheme which has been adopted in dealing with the given eighteen 
log jpx values consists, [a] in taking them in groups of six each (five orders 
of differences) ; (h) in making the successive series overlap each other ; and {c) 
in welding the series together by pairs of multipliers calculated from the "curve 
of cosines," according to the method devised by Mr. A. C. Waters. 

The following is a tabular representation of the scheme, in which it must be 
understood that for the sake of conciseness the figure 7 is intended to denote 
log ^7 and so on. The portions of each sub-series actually used are indicated 
by brackets, and the places at which the sub-series are welded are indicated by 
under-and-over lines. 

(1) 7, 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 67, [72, 77, 82, 87, 92. 

The first step is to set down the six terms of each sub-series in a column and 
to difference them. 

From the differences corresponding to 5-yearly intervals thus obtained, 
which may be denoted by the symbol A, the sub-divided differences correspond- 
ing to yearly intervals, denoted by the symbol 8, may be obtained by the 
following simple formulae. 



17, 22, 27], 32. 




17, [22, 27, 32, 37], 42. 




27, [32, 37, 42, 47], 52. 




37, [42, 47, 52, 


57], 62. 


47, [52, 


57, 62, 67], 72. 




57, [62, 67, 72, 77; 



5X="00032A5wo 








s%o= -ooieA^o-ss-X 








SX= •008A%, - 68%o - 


188X 






8X= •04A%o - 48%y - 


^^H^- 


- IQ^^u^ 




Swq = •2Aw(, -28%^- 


28%„- 


■ S%o- 


•28X. 



In sub-series (1) the formulae are to be applied to the first line of differences 
opposite to W7, but in the other sub-series (2) to (7) they are to be applied to the 
second line of differences, completed by inserting the constant A-''/^^. 

Before proceeding to carry down the differences it is desirable to check them 
by the following formulae : — 

-For sub-series (1), " 

«25 = «o + 258«o + 30082//^ + 2,3008^ + 1 2, 6508^^^^ + 53,1 3085«^. 

For sub-series (2) to (7), 

«2o = ^0 + 208/^0 + 19082«^ + 1,1 408^ + 4,84584^^0 + 15,5048X. 



156 



HAYWAED 



The scheme for " welding " the respective overlapping parts of two sub-series 
is illustrated by the following example : — 

in sub-series (1) in sub-series (2) 
log Z^23= log P23 X "904 -I- log P23 X -096 
log P24 = log P24 X "654 + log P23 X '346 
log p25 = log P25 X "346 -flog P24 X -654 
log p24 = log p26x"0964-log p26X"904 

The calculations are facilitated by deducting the largest possible common 
value from each pair of log 2^x values before multiplying, and then adding 
the two products to the common value. 

Seeing that sub-series (1) starts with log p?, the values of log p^ and log p^ 
may either be obtained by carrying back the differences, or prefei:ably by the 
following formulae : — 



+ 5^5. + 9«g - (10//g + 4«jq), 



[ 



{u^ + 6?/^^) + 70{u^ - l^io) 



21 



~| + 4«9 



5?/o 



Exactly how far sub-series (7) must be carried on can only be determined 
when the l^ column of the Life-Table is calculated. 

Having now obtained the complete series of log p^ values the remaining 
stages in the construction of a Life-Table may be illustrated by the following 
simple scheme which has already been used in a paper in "Journal of Hygiene," 
Vol. ii., No. 2. 

An Easy First Lesson in Constructing: a Life-Table from 
tlie Series of ^^ Values when obtained. 



Age 


p. 


h 


P. 


Q. 




X 


A = 0-8 


10 


9 


25 


t^=2-5 


x+ 1 


1 = 0-75 


8 


7 


16 


J/ = 2-0 


x + 1 


1 = 0-6 


6 


5 


9 


1 = 1-5 


a: + 3 


1 = 0-5 


4 


3 


4 


1 = 1-0 


x + i 


%=o 


2 


1 


1 


1 = 0-5 


x + b 














The processes of calculation are as follows : — 



(1) 


k->^p. = K+i ; 


h+ixpx+i = h+2 ; 'fee. 


(2) 


P.=l{h+K^d; 


Px+i = hQx+i + ix+,) ; «fec. 


(3) 


Vjr+4 — Px+i '} 


Qx^-3=Qx+i+Px+z ; &c. 


(4) 




''x+l 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 157 

It is to be understood, of course, that the multiplications and divisions are 
in actual practice to be effected by means of logarithms. 

It is of importance to comprehend : — 

(1) that the jpx values have relation to the 'present tense; i.e., each value 
depends upon the rate of mortality at the middle of the age ^r to x + \. 

(2) that the ¥ values have relation to the past tense, in that they are only 
affected by the 'preceding p^ values, from poio Vx-\', 

(3) that the E^, values have relation to the future tense, in that they are 
only affected by/>j.and the folloiving values to p^+o-i (where a3 + w is the age 
at which there are no more survivors). 

It is obvious that the value lx = 10 can only depend upon the arbitrary 
number Iq with which the Life-Table will have been commenced, and upon the 
values of po to Px-i- Assuming these to have been so different that Ix has 
become 20 instead of 10, this could not affect the values of Ex to Ex+i, for the 
values of px to px+i remain the same, and therefore all the results of the 
calculations in the alsove Table will be doubled, and Ex = ^^ = 2-5 as before. 

Therefore Qx is is always in direct proportion to Ix. 

There is a special point to note concerning P^ which is not truly represented 
by 1(^0 + ^i)- It is best obtained by the following formula, derived by a simple 
application of the integral calculus : — 

With this formula in view it is desirable to have calculated po in two stages : — 
(1) the chance of living from birth to age 6 months, and (2) the chance of 
living from age 6 months to age 1. 

The values of Ex/n are derived from the Qx and Px values by the formula 



^ _r Q.+ Q.+l+ ■ • - +^x+n-l ~] , 



On some other Methods of Applying^ the General 
Principles of Interpolation to Obtaining: a Series of 
Log;" Px Values. The evolution of the scheme which has already been 
described was largely guided by its originally intended application to arriving 
at the complete yearly series of log px values by measuring ordinates in a curve 
graphically drawn through a limited number of fixed points determined by 
exact calculation. 

In its subsequent development the general principle has been to do as little 
interpolation as possible in the foundation series of ti.x and Ux values, to get 
away from these as speedily as may be, and to reserve all subsequent processes 
of interpolation to the log p'x values. 

This scheme has been described so fully, because in its earlier stages it is 
the tnost easily applicable to the method to he described in the next section of 
this Lecture of working out an abbreviated Life-Table in 5-y early stages. 

Moreover, with the prospect in view or working out three concurrent Life- 
Tables by an extended method, it was of importance to adopt a scheme entailing 
the minimum amount of labour. Still this is only one of many possible 



158 HAYWAED 



methods, and it is now proposed to briefly indicate the main lines of three 
other schemes, which have as their first stage the interpolation of intermediate 
terms at 5-yearly intervals in the original series of u^ and Ux values. These 
may be called Methods II., III. and IV. 

The scheme of interpolation will be apparent when set down as below in a 
tabular form, the figure 4 being for the sake of conciseness used to denote 
W4 and so on. 

The interpolated terms are indicated by thicker type. 



5 


10 15 20 25 


35 


45 








5 


10 15 20 25 


30 35 


45 


55 








15 25 


35 


40 45 


55 


65 






25 


35 


45 


50 55 


65 


75 






35 


45 


55 6 


65 7 


75 



80 85 

The formulae of interpolation are given below. (The formula for Wjo is 
another form of that already given. Seeing that ^30 is not required in the 
same series this new form is to be here preferred.) 

_ r i2,710(77?/, + 84;/,, + 22//.,,) + 2,046?/,^] - [625,000//^ + 3,608(248?/^, + 7»3.,) ~] 
^'••^o"L 782,936 J- 

[21(?/- + 25?/,, + 50?/.,, + 10?/3,) + ?/„] - [160(?/jo + 6?/., J + 15?^^,] 
"30- ^672 " • 

(The ^20 in the above formula is that already calculated by the preceding 
formula). 1^40, u^^, and u^q are to be obtained by the general formula already 
given for interpolating a central term in a series of six equidistant terms. 
'2\{u,^ + 10«,„ + 5?/^,) - [3//3, + 7(10?/,, + ii^y\ 
«7o - 256 

7[;/3, + 9(2//,, + 5//-, + ?%,)] - [5(9;/,, + 42?/,,)] 
"80- 256 • ^ 

• If now the six equidistant terms u^^, Wgo, u^^, Ujq, w^g, u^^ be differenced the 
series can be carried on at 5-yearly intervals to u^^ (proving the correctness of 
the interpolation of u^o and itgo) and then to 1/90 . . . ^120- 

Next by differencing the seven equidistant terms ?/,, j;,,^, ?;,,. u.-^q, m^,, u^, u^, the series 
can be carried back to u^^, ;<_,, and m_jq. 

In order to secure accuracy four extra places of decimals must be used in these 
difFerencings. 

Method II. Being now provided with a continuous series of equidistant 
terms of Uj^ and Ux extending at 5-yearly intervals from u.ioto ^120, it is 
possible to calculate the values of log p'x from age 5 to age 105 by the applica- 
tion of the following formula for obtaining the values of b and Z? in a series of 
seven equidistant terms of which the central one is taken as Wq- 

45(«j - «.j) - 9(«., -«.,) + («3 - //.g) 

which, when the interval 71 = 5 may be written thus for convenience in working : 
- 300/^ = r ^ — (m., - Ur) + (m_io - "lo) + (« -15 - "15) J - 10(m-io - "lo)- 



CONSTEUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 159 

Having obtained the series of log p'^ values from age 5 to age 105 the 
interpolation of the intermediate values for ages 7^ to 92^ may be proceeded 
with as in the previous scheme already described. 

Method III. Another method is after having obtained the consecutive 
series of u^ and U^ values at 5-yearly intervals (which in this case need only 
extend from u_5 to Uios), to proceed to interpolate a further series of terms in 
each series, U71, Ui2i, . . . ix^j,. 

This can be readily done by the application of the general formula already 
given. 

Tj^ ^„, ^ 300(^5 + «io) - 50(«o + «i5) + 6(m.., + «.,o) 
'- 512 

It is then possible to obtain directly from the tt^ and JJ^^ series, the series 
of log p'.j. values for ages 7|, 12| . . . 92^ required for the scheme of yearly 
interpolation, by the application of the following formula for obtaining the 
values of h and 5 in a series of seven terms, of which six are equidistant, and 
the seventh, taken as u^ is the central term. 

2250(«i - u_^ - 125(?f3 - ?/_3) + 9(«^ - w..,) 
3840^ 
which, when the interval n = 5 may be thus written for convenience in working : 

- 768006 = 9[^1000(«., - «,) + 4(«_2, - «,,) J- 500(m_,, - «,,). 

Methods II. and III. have the theoretical advantage, as compared with 
Method I. of keeping longer in touch with the foundation numbers of population 
and deaths. If this advantage be desired Method II, while also being applic- 
able to the construction of an extended Life-Table, may be substituted for 
Method I. in constructing an abbreviated Life-Table by an application of the 
integral calculus to be hereafter described. 

If it be proposed to construct an extended Life-Table from census data, 
Method III. may perhaps be considered as an approach to an ideally perfect 
application of the differential calculus. It has been found by actual trial that 
the jOj, values obtained by the three methods, while not absolutely identical, 
agree very closely. They may all be considered as rational methods. That 
Method I. can give satisfactory results will be evident by the three concurrent 
Life-Tables to be afterwards given, which have been worked out by it. 
Methods II. and III. have been mentioned partly with the view of showing 
how much less labour is involved by Method I, which is therefore the method 
to be preferred from this point of view. 

Various other methods of obtaining log -p'^ values have been tried involving 
fewer as well as more orders of differences, but it would occupy too much space 
to attempt to allude to them in detail. 

Method IV. for obtaining the complete series of jy^ values directly from 
Population and Deaths. 

If it be desired to effect a complete series of interpolations at yearly intervals 
in the foundation u^ and U^ values (which are respectively the logs of 2P — d 



160 HAT WARD 

and 2 P+d a.t age x and upwards), and then, by taking the first differences of the 

2P-d 
numerical values of the resulting series of logs, to obtain iypTli ^^^ ^^^^ year of 

age, the following plan may be adopted. 

After having interpolated u.^q, u^q, .... %o in the original series by formulae 
already given in the description of Methods II. and III., the scheme of 
interpolation indicated below may be applied. (It is to be understood that the 
numeral 5 stands for U5, &c.). 

5, 10, 15, 20, 25], 30, 



15, [20, 25, 30, 35] , 40, 

25, [30, 35, 40, 45], 50, 



35, [40, 45, 50, 55] , 60, 



45, [50, 55, 60, 65], 70, 



55, [60, 65, 70, 75, 80 ]. 

The formulae for effecting this series of interpolations, and for welding together 
the overlapping parts, have already been given in the description of Method I., 
as applied to obtaining a yearly series of log px values. 

The series of px values obtainable by the above method would have a close 
relation to the foundation numbers of population and deaths, and would very 
nearly indicate the true jpx curve in so far as the data were true. 



ON ABBREVIATED METHODS OF LIFE-TABL^ CONSTRUCTION. 

It has been shown by the present writer that by very simple modifications of 
the late Dr. Wm. Farr's original method of constructing " short " Life-Tables 
it is possible to arrive at E^ values at quinquennial or decenneal intervals 
approximating very closely to those which would be obtained by the much 
more laborious "extended" methods. 

For description of these modifications see (1) " Public Health " for July, 
1898, (2) "Journal of the Royal Statistical Society," Vol. Ixii., Part 3, pp. 470— 
480, (3) "Journal of Hygiene," Vol. ii., No. 1, pp. 34—42, (4) Newsholme's 
" Vital Statistics," third edition, chapter xxiii. It was afterwards shown how, 
by equally simple methods, Exjn values covdd be obtained. See (5) "Journal of 
Royal Statistical Society," Vol. Ixv., Part 4, pp. 680—684. 

To give one more example of the value of these methods the following tables 
may be presented, showing the differences from the Ex and Exjn values obtained 
for England and Wales, 1891 — 1900, by the extended method herein described 
of the corresponding values obtained by the shortened methods described at the 
above-given references, of which (2) and (5) may be especially referred to. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 161 



E^ 



Ages. 


Males. 


Females. 





-fOOl 


-001 


5 


+ 003 


+ 000 


10 


+ 001 


-001 


15 


+ 001 


-001 


20 


+ 0-07 


+ 002 


25 


+ 002 


+ 000 


35 


-006 


-007 


45 


-005 


-006 


55 


-008 


-012 


65 


-005 


-008 


75 


-002 


-004 





Exjn 




Ages. 


Males. 


Females. 


0—5 


+ 002 


+ 001 


5 10 


+ 003 


+ 001 


10—15 


+ 001 


-001 


15 20 


+ 005 


+ 001 


20—25 


+ 0-04 


+ 000 


25—35 


-002 


-003 


35 45 


-004 


-007 


45—55 


-003 


-006 


55 65 


-003 


-007 


65—75 


+ 001 


+ 000 


75 85 


+ 003 


+ 000 



85 +0-08 +0-02 85 and +005 +002 

upwards 

For merely local Life-Tables tlie results thus indicated may be regarded as 
sufficiently close approximations, especially when it is considered that much 
larger differences are to he obtained between the results of different extended 
Tuethods. However, the empirical and somewhat crude methods by which these 
results have been obtained do not give true Ix values, although when two Life- 
Tables calculated by their means are compared with each other, the differences 
of the Ig. values are rightly indicated in direction if not in precise degree. 

As an improvement upon these methods it is now proposed to explain how, 
by simple applications of the integral calculus it is possible to obtain a series 
of Irg and Ex values at 5-yearly intervals almost exactly coinciding with those 
which are to be obtained by interpolating i^x values for each year of age. 
Indeed, if there be found differences between the two sets of results, those 
obtainable at 5-yearly stages by the methods to be described must be regarded 
as the more accurate, because in the process of working out an extended Life- 
Table in yearly stages, the 5-yearly sections of the true p^ and l^ curves are 
measured by interpolating only four intermediate ordinates, whereas, by the 
use of the integral calculus, the five-yearly sections of the curves are measured 
with absolute and perfect accuracy, taking into account an infinite number of 
intermediate ordinates. 

Let us go back to the point at which in the construction of the extended 
Life-Table by Method I. we had obtained the series of log p'x values at 
quinquennial intervals from age 5 to age 105, and had then interpolated a 
further series of central terms corresponding to ages 7|, 12| . . . 92^, each of 
which had been made to depend upon three values on either side of it. 

Using the symbol u^ to denote log p'x and considering the given six equi- 
distant log p'x values as ordinates of a curve, the equation to which is 
Ux = A+Bx + Cx^+ ... we have already found the exact value of the central 
term, or ordinate, according to this equation, by the interpolation formula : — 

300(?/_T + »|) - 50(w_3 + ti^) + 6(?<_- + Ur) 
«o= 512 • 



162 IIAYWAliD 

Having therefore given the seven ordinates ii_5, u^s, ^-i. ^o, Wi, u^, u^., 
which form a series with five orders of differences, the problem is to measure 
the sum of all the ordinates between ii_y and Ux- 

Now it can he shown that the general expression for such a sum, 
J'li^dx, when u^ = A->rBx + Cjc- + Dj^ + Ex^ + Fxr>, is 
/ Bx'^ Cx^ Dx* Ea^ Fx'^\ 

and therefore the sum between the limits —n and n, expressed by 

n 

fujlx is equal to 



/ , rilB n'C n^^D n^E n^F\ 
/ , nW n^C rv^D n^E n^F\ 



After working out the values of C and E in terms of the given seven 
ordinates,* and taking A = Ua, this last expression is found to be reduced to 
n r \ 11,872«^ + 30,690(«_^ + u^) - 235(m_3 + ti^ + 9(«_^ + z/^) "] 
IsL 5,760 J- 

which, when n = 2\, can be written thus for convenience in working. 
10,230[ 1 1 «o + 3(«_^ + Mj)] + 9(«_. + M5) - 47[14«o + 5(«_3 + n.^] 
* 34,560 

This will give the sum of all the ordinates between u_i and Ux in terms of 

U,, «_o, 71 ,, u,„ U,, M„, «,. 



-IJ "O' "1' "3' 5' 



However, since n^ has already been determined with relation to the six 
original ordinates, a sufficiently near approximation to the value required can 
be obtained by only bringing w_i, ii^, and tii into the integration formula, which 
is thus reduced to the much simpler expression, 



n n \ 

J'u/lx = oC-li'o + »<_! + Mj ). 
— » ' X 



and which when n = 2\ becomes 

5(4mq + w_^ + W|) 
6 • 

In order then to obtain the sum of all the possible log f'x values between 
log ^'5 and log 2>'iO' t-he rule simply is, taT<e the sum of the two outside terrns plus 
4 times the central term, multiply this sum by 5, and divide the product by 6; 
the quotient is the logarithm which will enable us to pass by one step of 
addition from log 7g to log ?jo. By a similar process the remaining steps may 
be taken until log Zmj is reached. 

* Tliis has been done by means of some general algebraical formalje for expressing B, C, D, &c. ,in 
terms of «o, ?<«, ub, &c., which are too long to quote here. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 163 

Before applying the formula it is best to put each logarithm into the 
negative form, thus 

log/r, =1 -9964211= --0035789 
log ;/.5 =1-9983127= --0016873 
log /io = 1-9989816= --0010184 

By applying the formula the result is - -0094554, which is easily changed 
back into r9905446. 

As an example of the different results obtained by different methods take 
the interval between log y go and log p^s. The results are : — 

(1) by the complete formula of integration 1 9097524 

(2) by the short formula 1-9097519 

(3) by yearly interpolations, i.e., the sum of the log y^ values for 

ages 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64 ... 1-9097727 

It may be noted that the values of log p'orj and of log j) iq.^i may be obtained 
by the application of the following special formulae : — 

_ 5(?^oo + ^u^r, + 3w^oo) - (t/iQ,., + 24//^,..}) 
9'« 40 



"102? - ^'n\ 1^ J J 



i 



By taking out the numerical values of the series of log l^. values now to be 
readily obtained we shall have a complete series of true /^ numbers at 5-yearly 
intervals from age 5 to age 105. 

These Ij. numbers also may be regarded as ordinates of a curve, and exactly 
the same integration formulae may be applied to them (to the numbers, not the 
logarithms), so as to obtain the true years of life lived by l^ persons in the 
age-period from age a; to age x+5, i.e., the value of Qx—Qj:+5 (or Qje/^)- Before 
this can be done, however, intermediate values must be calculated, Z7.1, luu . . . 
^21- Those for ages 17^ . . . 92| inclusive may be readily calculated as the 
central terms in an equidistant series of six by the general formula already 
given. For ages 7| and 12^ the following special formulae may be used. 

Having already calculated /i7j, 



'12J - [^ g^ J -^7i 

^_. = r (/.+u+ ir)(/ , ,+/j -2o/,,n -^^^^. 



As it is scarcely necessary to obtain a later value of E^^ than Eg^, Qss may be 
obtained from /gp, Zjoo and Zma by applying the formula of integration 



Jiijx = ^( 4«y + ?/_! + J/j J 



164 HAYWAED 

with the value of n = 5, and which then becomes 

3 

Therefore (^^^ = ^(i^ioo+iedllios)^ 
o 

Then Q^^-Q^^ = ^J^h2i+ho±M. 

and so on until Q5 — Q10 has been worked out. Q0 — Q5 will have been obtained 
already as the sum of Pq, Pi, P2, P3 and P^. 

The Qx column can now be constructed at 5-yearly stages by successive 
additions, and then the series of E^. values can be calculated by the formula 

Thus with very much less labour than that involved by the complete extended 
method a series of l^ and E^^ values at 5-yearly intervals can be obtained with 
perfect accuracy in so far as the data are accurate. 

In order to complete the work, however, it is desirable to obtain also values 
of E^in that is values expressing the mean future lifetime of all the individuals 
included within the limits of the usual age-groups. 

This can readily be done by a further application of the same method 
already employed to obtain Z^ and Ex. values. 

since E^ = — it follows that B-n/n=-^, • 

— n 

As has already been noted Qx is always in direct proportion to l^. From a 
geometrical point of view an integration of Ix is represented by an area, and 
Qx is a sum of areas, therefore an integration of Qx is represented by a solid 
figure. In actual practice, as the successive values of Ix are not precisely the 
same function of x, an integration of Qx can only be an approximate value, but 
it will be so near to the true value that the error may be neglected. 

In order by this method to obtain values of Exjn the Qx numbers must be 
dealt with exactly as the l^ numbers are dealt with. 

It is first of all necessary to interpolate intermediate Qx values for ages 
7|, 12|, 17i and 22| by similar formulge to those already used for the corres- 
ponding Ix numbers. Then, beginning with the age-period 5/10 the quotient 
obtained by dividing the integrated value of Qg/jo by the integrated value of 
/5/10 will give the value of Esj^o. It may be noted that by striking out the 
common factor f in the numerator and denominator of the expression for 
Exjf,, the work may be simplified. Thus 



6 

'5/^0 - 5(4/7^ + ^5 + ^0 " U^ + C+l, 



Jli^hn— — ■ 



CONSTEUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 165 

Similarly for tlie age-periods 10/15, 15/20 and 20/25, The value of £^0/5 must 
be obtained as in tbe method already described for the extended Life-Table. 
From the Qs of the abbreviated Life-Table by successive additions of P^, P^, P^, 
Pi and Po the values oi Q^ . . . Qo are obtained. 

Thpn F Q0+ Q1 + Q2 + QZ +Q4 , 

Then ^0/5 = P,4-P, + P, + P3Tp7 " ^- 

When we come to the age-period 25/35, instead of taking the sum of the 
integrations of 25/30 and 30/35, to obtain which would necessitate interpolating 
Q27i and ^321, the integration for the 10-yearly period may be effected in one 
stage. 

Thus after eliminating the common factor f in the numerator and 
denominator, 



M/o 



^Qso + Qo, + Qs 



Similarly for the age-periods dbjid . . . 75/85. 

£^85 and upwards may be obtained by the formula 

(4^ 90 + Q s 6 + ^ 1.5 ) + (4^100 + h^, + ^10 5) 

(4^90 + ^85 + ^95) + (4^100 + ^95 + ^105) ■ 

Of various other formula) of integration which have been worked out and 
tried only the following one need be mentioned, Avhich has been obtained by 
substituting the expression for Uq, given at the foot of page IGl, in place of Uo in 
the complete integration formula, given at the middle of page 162, and then 
reducing, thus combining in one formula the two processes of mterpolation and 
integration. The result arrived at is : — 

•^„^ ISL 48 J 

when n = '2\ the denominator becomes 288. 

This formula may be used in the integrations of log ^j'^ and l^ values as an 
alternative to first interpolating a central term in a series of six, and then using 
the short integration formula. 

The method of working out an abbreviated Life-Table which has now been 
described, it is hoped with sufficient clearness to enable it to be followed, has 
been tested by actual trial, and its advantage will be made apparent by an 
inspection of the following table of comparison. 

In columns {a) are given the figures obtained by the extended Method I., 
and in columns {h) the corresponding values obtained by the method of 
integration just described. The table, in order to save space, only applies to 
males, but the figures for females have also been worked out with equally close 
results. 



166 






HAYWAllD 












England 


AND Wales 


, 1891— 1900.— Males. 










K 




E, 




^./« 




Age 










Age 






X 


(") 


('') 


(«) 


(b) 


x/n 


(") 


(f>) 





100,000 


100,000 


4411 


44-10 


0—5 


52-66 


52-65 


5 


75,093 


75,093 


53-41 


53-42 


5 10 


51-62 


51-61 


10 


73,482 


73,475 


49-54 


49-55 


10—15 


47-33 


47-33 


15 


72,592 


72,584 


45-12 


4512 


15 20 


4302 


43-01 


20 


71,235 


71,227 


40-93 


40-93 


20 25 


38-93 


38-92 


25 


69,446 


69,438 


36-91 


36-92 


25—35 


33-07 


33-07 


30 


67,323 


67,316 


33-00 


33-01 


35 45 


25-71 


25-71 


35 


64,716 


64,710 


29-22 


29-24 


45 55 


1901 


1901 


40 


61,505 


61,497 


25-62 


25-62 


55—65 


1314 


1313 


45 


57,655 


57,648 


22-16 


22-17 


65 75 


8-37 


8-36 


50 


53,015 


53,008 


18-87 


18-87 


75—85 


502 


500 


55 


47,424 


47,417 


15-79 


15-79 


85 


2-94 


2-93 


60 


40,821 


40,813 


12-93 


12-93 


— 


— 


— 


65 


33,163 


33,156 


10-33 


10-32 


— 


— 


— 


70 


24,589 


24,581 


8-05 


804 


— 


— 


— 


75 


15,813 


15,806 


6-14 


6-13 


— 


— 


— 


80 


8,207 


8,202 


4-61 


4-60 


— 


— 


— 


85 


3,121 


3,118 


3-44 


3-42 


— 


— 


— 


90 


767 


766 


2-56 


2-54 


— 


— 


— 


95 


104 


104 


1-92 


2-08 


— 


— 


— 


100 


6 


6 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 



It is tlius evident tliat practically all that is required in constructing local 
life tables may be obtained by this abbreviated method. The only real dis- 
crepancy is at jSJgs, which is not a matter of great practical moment. 

Addendum. 

During the months which have elapsed since this lecture was delivered some 
further experimental work has been done, directed to finding the extent of 
differences m the Z^; and E^ values which may be deduced from the same data by 
varying methods. 

(1) In the first place an extended Life-Table for England and Wales, 1891 — 
1900 (Males), has been worked out b^^- " Method IV." (see page 159). This method, 
an extremely laborious one, is essentially similar to one which was suggested by 
the writer some years ago in a paper read before the Royal Statistical Society in 
May, 1899, and published in trie Journal of that Society, Vol. LXII., Parts III. 
and IV., and which was afterwards employed in the construction of the Life- 
Table for London. The writer is now of opinion that the altered details in modes 
of working of " Method IV.," as compared with those of the earlier method 
described at the above given reference, are to be preferred. 

It is necessary to have some standard of accuracy, and it is proposed to take 
the results of "Method IV." as the standard to which the results of the other 
methods which have been employed may be referred. In the succeeding table 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 1C7 

the Ijc and Ej. values of " Method IV." are given at 5-yearly intervals in 
columns (a), and the differences from these of the results of three other 
methods are indicated in columns (6), (c), and (d). 

(2) The differences in columns (6) are those of the extended method 
which has been previously described as " Method I." 

(3) The differences in columns (c) are those of the values obtained by the 
abbreviated method which consists in first obtaining a series of log p'^ values 
at 5-yearly intervals by " Method II." (see pages 157 — 159), and then integrating 
in succession the log p'^ and the resulting 4 series. 

However, instead of using the process of integration to obtain the logs 

for passing from log Ir, to log ?jq, and from ^^j to log /j^, it has been found 

preferable to adopt the simple process of takmg 5 times the log of the 

mean p^ value obtained from the " years of life " (or " lives at risk "), and the 

total deaths for each of the age-groups 5-10 and 10-15 respectively, by the 

formula r, ,^„ ,, , ,^^ ,., ^^ 

[log (2P -d)- log (2P + d)] X 5.* 

The process of integration is to be first applied to the log p'^, series for 
ages 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30, so as to get the integrated value between ages 
15 and 20. 

The work of calculating the log j^'^. series might be lessened by obtaining 
the required values after log p'^^ by differencing the values obtained for 
ages 60, 65, 70, 75, 80 and 85, and carrying on the series by means of the 
differences. 

The work of intregation has been actually done by the methods of 
calculation which have been described (see pages 161 — 163), but the last 
formula given on page 165, would enable the work to be more readily 
accomplished, as it dispenses with the necessity of interpolating central terms 
in each series. 

In applying the same formula to the l^ series of numbers in order to 
avoid the labour of obtaining the hypothetical terms ^^ and L^ by the method 
of differencing, the following simple formulae may be used: — 

^0 = HI, + h^ + 20/i, - [15(/,o + ^o) + y, 

^-5 = 6(/o + ^2o) + 2o/,o - [1 5(^5 + ^5) + y • 

The series does not require to be carried on beyond /jos (see formula for 
Q„5 on page 164). 

(4) The differences given in columns (d) are those of l^ and E^ values 
obtained by a still simpler abbreviated method which only involves using 
three or four orders of differences, the formula} required for which will now 
be given. 

In the first place it is to be noted that Uoo and Uoq in the foundation 
series of logs of 2P-d and 2P + d at age x and upwards are to be derived 
from the actual data and not by calculation. 

Although it was found necessary in the comparative series of Life-Tables, 
in Part II., to obtain U20 by calculation (see second paragraph on page 
175), no apparently irrational results were obtained by taking »._,o from the 
actual data as rer/ards Life-Table I. taken alone, and justification for 

* If extreme accuracy be desired it is best to obtain the separate log j>x vahies for ages 5, (i, 7, 
8 and 9, by " Alethod IV .," and then to sum them. 



168 HAYWARD 

taking U20 from the actual data is found in the final " General Report of the 
Census for 1901 " (see page 63 of that Report). 

Formulae for completing: the ?/jc and U^ series at 5-yearly 
intervals:— 

«o = 5(«5 - "^^^o) + ^% - 10(^10 - "15) 

,, _ 9(^35 + ^45)-K5 + ^55) 
,, _ 9(^45 + %5)-K5 + -^65) 
,, _ 9(%5 + ?^65)-K5 + ^^75) 

^70-^ 128 

_ 5(3?/,- + 9?/y, + z^so) - (?^55 + ^Q^ro) 



?^, 



«: 



= u^^ + 10(«7. - //go) - 5(«7o - ^85) 

= ?/7o + 10(2/go - //g^) - 5(^/7. - «9o) 



The correctness of the results of the last four formulae is to be checked 
by finding an identical value of u^r, by u,y^ = u^r,+ lO{uQ^-u.^r,) -5(i/^^-UQ^), or by 
differencing the series from u^^ to ^/gg inclusive and finding that there is a 
constant fourth difierence. 

Calculation of log: /x values. 

From the u^; and Ux series thus completed it is now easily possible to 
cal(3ulate a series of log p'^ values for ages 10 to 85 inclusive at 5-yearly 
intervals by a formula already explained at the foot of page 153, each value 
being calculated from a series of five consecutive equidistant values of 
Ux and Ux of which the x of log 2^'x is taken as in the series u_-^q, u_^, u^, 
u^, u^Q. Thus 

log P'o = {'^0 + log[^('^-5 - ^'5) - (^'-10 - '^10)]} 

The series can be completed for ages after 85 by differencing the values 
for ages 65, 70, 75, 80 and 85, and carrying on the series to log ^^'no- 
Integ^ration of log: p'x series. 

The summed log p^ values between ages 5 and 10, and 10 and 15, are to 
be obtained by the simpler method described under (3) on page 167. 

The integration between ages 15 and 20 may then be effected from the 
values for ages 10, 15, 20 and 25, which correspond to the relative ages, 
-7i -2^, 2^ and 7f 

The formula of integration is, u^ denoting log p'^ 



JKdx = |n3(^-i + ^i)^-(/^-3 + «8)1 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 



169 



which when n = 2l- becomes 

48 

The simple processes of calculation therefore to be applied to each series 
of four log p'x values are (1) to add together the two middle and two outside 
logs, (2) to take the "co-logs" of the two sums (i.e., their differences from 0), 
(3) to apply the formula to the co-logs, the result being the co-log of the 
required integrated value. 

Examples. 
X log p'x 

10 1-9989149 1-9987360 1-9989149 



15 



1-9987360 



+ 1-9980524 



+ 1-9975809 



20 
25 


1-9980524 
1-9975809 

log p'x 
1-7970020 
1-7213533 

1-6251749 
1-5050623 


1-9967884 
0-0032116 
xl30 


-48 = 
log = 


1-9964958 
0-0035042 




963480 
32116 






4175080 
- 350420 




X 

95 
100 


0-3824660^ 
.*. required 

1-7213533 

+ 1-6251749 


= 0-0079680 
= 1-9920320 

1-7970020 
+ 1-5050623 


105 
110 


1-3465282 
0-6534718 
xl30 


1-3020643 
0-6979357 




196041540 
6534718 






84-9513340 
-6-9793570 





77-9719770 + 48 =J.-6244162 
.-. required log = 2-3755838 



Integrration of U numbers. 



The 



log Ix values being now readily obtained at 5-yearly intervals by 
successive additions of the integrated log />x values, the corresponding 
numerical values are to be taken out. 

Having completed the required series by interpolating a hypothetical 
Iq value (which of course must not be confounded with the true l^ number 



170 



HAYWAED 



of the Life-Table), by the formula ^o = ^(''o + ^5) " (^'lo + ^20)' t-he same formula 
of integration may be applied to the series /(,, l^, l^^, l^^, so as to obtain the 
years of life lived by ^5 persons in the interval from age 5 to age 10, and so 
on to the interval between ag-e 100 and age 105. 

The remaining stages in the construction of Life-Tables have been already 
described. 

Calculation of ^x/n values. 

Having completed the Q^ series by interpolating a hypothetical Qq value 
by a formula corresponding to that above given for Iq, 

E _ 13(a> + <?io)-(<?o + ^i5) 

(The /(, value is of course the calculated one). 
By similar formulae the values of -E'10/15, ^15/20, and -E'20/25 may be obtained. 
The remaining E^jn values are to be obtained as already described on 
page 1G5. 

Table showings J.r, and E,, values for Eng^land and Wales, 
1891-1900 (Males), calculated by extended "Method IV.," 
and the difPerences from these of the corresponding^ 
fig^ures obtained by other methods as previously indicated. 



U 



E. 





(«) 


(6) 


(C) 


"5) 


(«) 


(ft) 


(c) 


(d) 





100,000 











44-17 


-0-06 





+ 0-03 


5 


75,093 











53-50 


-0-09 





+ 0-04 


10 


73,494 


- 12 


_ 2 


_ 2 


49-62 


-0-08 





+ 0-04 


15 


72,599 


- 7 


+ 2 


+ 2 


45-20 


-0-08 


-0-01 


+ 0-04 


20 


71,245 


- 10 





+ 36 


41-01 


-0-08 


-0-01 


+ 0.02 


25 


69,454 


- 8 


- 6 


+ 50 


37-00 


-0-09 


-0-01 


+ 0-01 


•30 


67,357 


- 34 


+ 11 


+ 76 


33-07 


-0-07 


-0-01 





35 


64,876 


-160 


-24 


- 2 


29-24 


-0-02 





+ 003 


40 


61,637 


-132 


-16 


+ 14 


25-64 


-0-02 





+ 0-02 


45 


57,758 


-103 


-13 


+ 22 


22-19 


-0-03 


-0-01 


+ 0-01 


50 


53,181 


-166 


-19 


+ 14 


18-88 


-0-01 


-001 


+ 0-02 


55 


47,622 


-198 


-20 


+ 23 


15-78 


+ 0-01 





+ 0-02 


60 


40,970 


-149 


-14 


+ 52 


12-93 





-0-01 


+ 0.01 


65 


33,264 


-101 


-15 


+ 71 


10-33 





-0-01 


+ 0-01 


70 


24,668 


- 79 


-14 


+ 57 


8-05 











75 


15,874 


- 61 


-14 


+ 32 


6-14 








+ 0-01 


80 


8,244 


- 37 


-12 


+ 7 


4-62 


-0-01 


-0-02 





85 


3,136 


- 15 


- 8 


- 2 


3-44 





-0-02 






The above is presented as the most complete example of a number of 
comparative Tables which have been prepared. 

The conclusions to Avhich the writer has finally been led by inference 
from them are : — 

(1) That for the purposes of Public Health comparative statistics it is 
scarcely necessary to use any extended method in constructing a Life-Table. 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 



171 



(2) That if extreme accuracy be desired the shortened method by which the 
results indicated under columns (6) have been obtained may be used. 

(3) That for ordinary practical purposes the simple and easy method by 
which the results given under columns (d) have been obtained is amply 
sufficient. 

(4) That for the sake of minute accuracy in comparison it is desirable 
that different Life-Tables shall have been constructed by the same method. 

(5) That Avhen this has been the case the differences between two Life-Tables 
compared are nearly the same by all the methods which have been tried, and 
therefore the differences of Life-Tables Nos. II. and III. from Life-Table 
No. I., as given in Part II. of the Lecture, may be taken to be practically 
identical with those which would have been obtained if another method had 
been used in their construction. 

PART II. 

COMPARISON OF THE MORTALITY FROM PHTHISIS IN 
ENGLAND AND WALES DURING THE DECENNIA, 1881—1890 
AND 1891—1900. 



The most simple and obvious method of making such a comparison is to 
contrast the death-rates per million from this cause for each of the usual age- 
groups, as shown in the following table. 

From the necessity of economising space the foundation numbers and the 
foundation work are not here set down in detail. 

It must be understood, however, that the " years of life " in each decennium 
(i.e., ten times the mean annual population), have been calculated from the 
data of the censuses of 1881, 1891 and 1901, by the method of Mr. A. C. "Waters, 
already alluded to, and that the numbers of deaths for the decennium 1891 — 1900 
have been compiled from the Annual Reports of the Registrar-General. 

England and Wales. Deatii-rates from Phthisis per million living. 



Males 



Females 



Ages 


1881—90 


1891— 190J 


Changes per cent 


1881—90 


1891—1900 


Changes per cent 


0—5 


553 


441 


-20-19 


518 


385 


-25-64 


5—10 


254 


174 


-31-64 


328 


239 


-27-30 


10—15 


344 


234 


-3212 


703 


502 


-28-61 


15—20 


1294 


995 


-23-14 


1810 


1290 


-28-71 


20 25 


2342 


1887 


-19-46 


2327 


1591 


-31-63 


25—35 


3039 


2369 


-22-05 


2803 


1923 


-31-39 


35—45 


3579 


3095 


-13-50 


2741 


2121 


-22-62 


45—55 


3507 


3144 


-10-34 


2063 


1642 


-20-42 


55 65 


2921 


2618 


-10-39 


1516 


1239 


- 18-30 


65 75 


1824 


1584 


-1317 


980 


807 


-17-68 


75 85 


744 


587 


-21-09 


428 


371 


-13-17 


85 & upwards 


273 


282 


+ 3-23 


193 


208 


+ 7-34 



All ages 



1853 



1580 



-14-75 



1615 



1214 



-24-86 



», 



172 HAYWARD 

From tlie preceding table it is evident (1) that the comparison of the figures 
for the two decennia shows a very marked decrease in the mortality from 
Phthisis at all age-periods except for ages 85 and upwards, such decrease 
affecting females much more than males, (2) that notwithstanding the decrease, 
Phthisis is still exacting a very large death-toll. 

It may be within the knowledge of some of those addressed that the present 
writer contributed a paper to the " Transactions of the British Congress on 
Tuberculosis " in 1901, in which it was sought to measure the effects of Phthisis 
as a cause of mortality during the ten years 1881 — 90 by finding answers to the 
questions, supposing that Phthisis had been abolished as a cause of mortality : 
(1) how much longer would people live ? and (2) how many more would be alive 
at certain ages? 

It was shown that question (1) could be answered with a very near approach 
to accuracy by the modified short method of Life-Table construction employed, 
but it was only claimed as regards question (2) that by this method the answers 
would be right in direction, but not in precise degree. 

When the work embodied in this Lecture was first contemplated the writer 
proposed to undertake a similar task based on the data for 1891 — 1900, but 
instead of using the short method, to employ an "extended" method for the 
sake of obtaining with accuracy answers to question (2), i.e., correct l^ values 

On subsequent reflection, however, it appeared that Life-Table methods 
might be applied to the question of Phthisis mortality in yet another way. 

The total extinction of Phthisis may be regarded at present as an almost 
Utopian dream, or scarcely within measurable distance of realization, and while 
it may be of interest to employ exact statistical methods to measure the total 
effects of Phthisis on longevity, it may be of still more interest and advantage 
to apply these methods in measuring the effects of such an actually observed 
concrete instance of diminished mortality as is set forth in the preceding table. 

The complete carrying out of this idea has necessitated the construction of 
three concurrent Life-Tables, both for males and females, by methods already 
described in detail. 

(1) A Life-Table for England and "Wales based on the total mortality from 
all causes during 1891 — 1900. 

(2) A Life-Table based on the hypothesis that during this period Phthisis 
as a cause of mortality had been totally abolished. 

(3) A Life-Table based on the hypothesis that during 1891 — 1900 Phthisis 
had been prevailing as a cause of mortality with the same proportionate 
intensity as in 1881 — 90. 

These three Life-Tables will, in what follows, be denoted respectively as 
I., II., and III. 

Before proceeding to give the results obtained it is necessary to give some 
explanation as to the modes employed for obtaining the numbers of deaths as 
the foundations for Life-Tables II. and III. 

First, as regards II., to take an example, we find that out of a total number 
of years of life for males living in the age-group 25 to 35 of 22,724,929, there 
occurred 153,545 deaths, of which 53,832 were due to Phthisis. 

Now it will be obvious that the supposed extinction of Phthisis could not 
possibly mean a nett gain of 53,832 lives, for if there had been no Phthisis, 
these 53,832 individuals would each have been exposed, on the average for half 
the period of time involved, to the same risks which accounted for 153,545 — 



CONSTBUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 173 

53,832 = 99,713 deaths, and therefore a deduction must be made from the 53,832 
of those of their number who would have died from other causes if they had not 
died from phthisis. 

It will also be obvious that the years of life out of which the deaths occurred 
will have been increased by | 53,832 = 26,916. 

The deduction to be made from 53,832 will be, therefore 

99,713x53,832 

118. 



22,724,929 + 26,916 



and the total number of deaths in the age-group on the hypothesis in question 
will be 153,545 - (53,832 - 118) = 99,831. 

To represent the calculation in a general formula let 
P = the years of life for any age-group, 
Z) = total number of deaths from all causes, 
cZ = number of deaths which have occurred from some cause supposed to be 

eliminated, 
D' = total number of deaths after elimination of this cause. 

^, ,^ ,, (I)-d)xd 
then I)' = (D- d) + ■ , .j -, , 

and the rate of mortality per unit in the age-group will be represented by 

D' 

F + l{D-Dy 

In the next place to illustrate the work required for Life-Table III., the 
corresponding instance may be taken. 

In 1881 — 90, out of 19,456,609 years of life for males in the age-group 
25 — 35 there occurred 59,126 deaths from Phthisis. From these figures, in 
conjunction with those already quoted for 1891 — 1900, it may readily be 
calculated that the number of deaths in 1891 — 1900, at the rate of 1881^ — 90 
would have been 69,058 that is an increase of 15,226 on the number actually 
recorded. But we cannot take the number 15,226 as the correct number of 
extra deaths which would have occurred on the hypothesis. 

If we look at the separate causes of mortality as "machine-guns," each 
mowing down so many individuals in a certain time, and suppose that one of 
these machine-guns, Phthisis, had been made to fire more rapidly during 1891 — 
1900, it is evident that the other machine-guns would not have had the same 
chance of killing the same number of individuals as those actually killed by 
them. 

In order, therefore, that we may obtain the correct number of extra deaths, 
on the hypothesis, a deduction must be made from the 15,226 of the number 
of those among them who would have died from other causes if they had not 
died from an increased intensity of Phthisis as a cause of mortality. 

The mean population, or years of life, out of which the extra deaths are to 
occur, having been reduced by half the number of actual deaths from phthisis, 
the deduction from the number 15,226 will be found thus: — 

99,713x15,226 
22,724,929-26,916" ^ 
and the corrected number of extra deaths on the hypothesis is 15,226 - 33 = 15,193. 



174 



HAYWAED 



In order to represent this calculation, too, by a general formula, let 

P — jears of life in the age-group for the decennium, 
Z^ = total number of deaths from all causes, 

(Z = number of deaths which have actually occurred from Phthisis, 
d' — sotne additional number of deaths supposed to have occurred from Phthisis, 
i)' = total number of deaths in the age-group by hypothesis, 

{D-d)xd' 
2F-d ■ 



then D' = D + d'- 



and the rate of mortality per unit for the age-group will be represented by 

F-KB'-I)- 

(In actual practice it is found that in the above formulae the denominators 
2P — d and 2 P + d may be replaced by 2P without obtaining more than a 
fractional variation in the results. In the work for the succeeding tables 2P 
has been used.) 

The work done in calculating the numbers of deaths as foundations for 
Life-Tables II. and III. may be first of all set forth in the form of comparative 
death-rates reckoned per million living, as shown in the following table. 

In columns (a) are given the death-rates from all causes. 

In columns (b) are given the differences from (a) on the hypothesis that 
Phthisis had been eliminated as a cause of mortality during tbe decennium, 
thus measuring the proportionate numbers of lives which would have been saved 
if there had been no Phthisis. 

In columns (c) are given the differences from [a) on the hypothesis that 
Phthisis had prevailed as a cause of mortality during the decennium with the 
same proportionate intensity as in 1881 — 90, thus measuring the proportionate 
numbers of lives actually saved during 1891 — 1900 by the reduction in Phthisis 
mortality as compared with 1881 — 90. 



England and 


Wales, 


1891—1900. 


Mean Annual Deati 


I -rates per 


million. 






Males. 






P'emales. 




Age.s. 


(b) 


(«) 


('•) 


(b) 


in) 


(c) 


5 


- 428 


62710 


+ 108 


- 375 


52797 


+ 129 


5 10 


- 173 


4309 


+ 80 


- 238 


4370 


+ 89 


10 15 


- 233 


2448 


+ 110 


- 501 


2566 


+ 201 


15—20 


- 993 


3789 


+ 299 


-1288 


3665 


+ 519 


20—25 


-1884 


5060 


+ 455 


-1589 


4461 


+ 735 


25—35 


-2364 


6757 


+ 669 


-1919 


6082 


+ 878 


35—45 


-3082 


11498 


+ 481 


-2113 


9593 


+ 618 


45—55 


-3119 


18946 


+ 360 


-1631 


14741 


+ 418 


55—65 


-2576 


34949 


+ 299 


-1222 


28438 


+ 274 


65—75 


-1529 


70386 


+ 232 


- 783 


60723 


+ 168 


75 85 


- 544 


146118 


+ 145 


- 347 


130598 


+ 53 


85 & upwards 


- 241 


286872 


- 6 


- 180 


261418 


- 10 



All ages -1569 



19316 



+ 323 



-1206 



17142 



+ 440 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 175 

In the calculation of the figures for the above table the foundation numbers 
for the* age-group — 5 have been dealt with collectively, but in the calculations 
for the Life-Tables to follow the foundation numbers have been treated for the 
separate age-groups — 3 mos., 3 — 6 mos., 6 — 12 mos., 1 — 2 yrs., 2 — 3 yrs., 
3 — 4 yrs., and 4 — 5 yrs. 

It may also be noted that in the above table, the foundation numbers for the 
age-groups 15—20, and 20 — 25, have been taken separately, whereas in the 
calculations for the Life-Tables they have been taken in covihiriation as 15 — 25, 
since it was found, after the expenditure of a good deal of labour, that it was 
only thus possible, in the case of the female Life-Tables, to arrive at rational 
results, this pointing almost certainly to the existence of mis-statements of age 
in the census Reports and in the Death Registers. 

Reserving until the end the presentation of the actual results of the three 
Life-Tables I., II. and III., for each successive year of age, as regards pj., l^., and 
Ex values, it is proposed at this point to set forth some of the most interesting 
and useful deductions from these results, especially such as may be made to 
apply to groups of ages. 

In the first place there will be given a table showing 

(a) the mean numbers living within the limits of the usual age-groups 
out of a million born, according to Life-Table I., obtained from the Px column 
of the Life-Table by taking the sum of P^ + Px+i+ . . . +PJ._^.,^_l and dividing 
this by n. (From a geometrical point of view this is, of course, simply taking 
the mean height of the ordinates of a section of the Z^ curve between the limits 
A- and x + n, by a method not quite so accurate as that depending upon an 
application of the integral calculus already described, but giving results not 
very greatly differing from those to be obtained by this last-named method.) 

(6) The corresponding numbers in excess over Life-Table I. according to 
Life-Table II. 

(c) The corresponding numbers of deficiency from Life-Table I., according 
to Life-Table III. 

England and Wales, 1891—1900. 

Mean numbers of those living within the limits of the age-groups indicated 

out of a million horn. 
Males. Females. 



Ages, (b) (a) (c) (b) (a) (c) 

0—5 + 1,057 798,466 - 334 + "930 828,357 - 359 

5—10 + 1,984 741,167 - 555 + 1,887 772,396 - 681 

10—15 + 2,512 730,570 - 881 + 3,117 760,867 - 1,155 

15—20 + 4,489 719,563 -1,488 + 6,110 749,486 - 2,392 

20—25 + 9,504 703,672 -2,780 +11,435 734,263 - 4,621 

25—35 +21,212 ■ 672,405 -5,750 +21,373 704,880 - 8,894 

35—45 +37,453 613,971 -8,801 +33,740 651,265 -12,966 

45—55 +49,961 528,527 -9,731 +41,354 577,856 -14,343 

55—65 +51,345 406,411 -8,765 +40,729 468,771 -13,177 

65—75 +36,633 245,506 -5,915 +29,931 306,683 - 9,264 

75—85 +13,835 86,422 -2,235 +12,593 121,843 - 3,802 

85 and + 879 5,370 - 142 + 907 8,578 - 269 
upwards 



176 



HAYWARD 



' The next table shows the results of the preceding table in proportions per 
viillion in each age-growp. Taking as a standard a million living in each 
age-group according to Life-Table I., columns (6) show how many more than a 
million are living in each age-group according to Life-Table II., and columns (c) 
how many fewer than a million are living according to Life-Table III. 





Males. 




Females. 


Ages. 


(ft) 


(0 


' (6) 


(c) 


0—5 


... + 1,324 ... 


- 418 . 


.. + 1,123 


.. - 433 


5—10 


.. + 2,677 ... 


- 749 . 


.. + 2,443 


.. - 882 


10—15 


.. + 3,438 ... 


- 1,206 . 


.. + 4,097 


.. - 1,518 


15 20 


.. + 6,239 ... 


- 2,068 . 


.. + 8,152 


.. - 3,192 


20—25 


.. + 13,506 ... 


- 3,951 . 


.. + 15,573 


.. - 6,293 


25—35 


.. + 31,546 ... 


- 8,551 . 


.. + 30,321 


.. -12,618 


35—45 


.. + 61,001 ... 


-14,335 . 


.. + 51,807 


.. -19,909 


45 55 


.. + 94,529 ... 


-18,412 . 


.. + 71,565 


.. -24,821 


55—65 


.. +126,338 ... 


-21,567 . 


.. + 86,885 


.. -28,110 


65 75 


.. +149,214 ... 


-24,093 . 


.. + 97,596 


.. -30,207 


75—85 


.. +160,087 ... 


-25,861 . 


.. +103,354 


.. -31,304 


85 and 
ipwards 


.. +163,687 ... 


-26,443 . 


.. +105,736 


.. -31,359 



The next table shows the average expectation of life, or mean after-lifetime 
of all the individuals included within the limits of the usual age-groups 
{Exjn), the values given for " all ages " representing the average Life-capital of 
the Life-Table population : — 

Columns [a), according to Life-Table I. 

Columns (6), the increase over Life-Table I., according to Life-Table II. 

Columns (c) the decrease from Life-Table I., according to Life-Table III. 

England and Wales, 1891 — 1900. E^jn. 



All ages 



Males. 



Females. 



Ages. 


(h) 


(a) 


(c) 


(h) 


(a) 


(c) 


0—5 


+ 2-70 


52-66 


-0-53 


+ 2-27 


55-05 


-0-80 


5—10 


+ 2-83 


51-62 


-0-56 


+ 2-36 


53-92 


-0-82 


10—15 


+ 2-84 


47-33 


-0-54 


+ 2-31 


49-70 


-0-80 


15—20 


+ 2-74 


43-02 


-0-52 


+ 2-14 


45-42 


-0-74 


20 25 


+ 2-49 


38-93 


-0-45 


+ 1-84 


41-31 


-0-62 


25—35 


+ 1-92 


3307 


-0-29 


+ 1-33 


35-38 


-0-39 


35—45 


+ 119 


25-71 


-0-14 


+ 0-73 


27-86 


-0-18 


45—55 


+ 0-60 


19-01 


-0-07 


+ 0-33 


20-73 


-008 


55 65 


+ 0-22 


1314 


-003 


+ 0-12 


14-31 


-003 


65 75 


+ 005 


8-37 


-0-01 


+ 003 


9-08 


-0-01 


75—85 


+ 001 


502 


+ 000 


+ 0-00 


5-45 


+ 000 


85 and 


+ 000 


2-94 


+ 000 


+ 0-00 


3-20 


+ 0-00 


upwards 















+ 0-98 



32-32 



-018 



+ 0-71 



33-52 



-0-23 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 177 

In the next place the E_,|,^ vahies given in the preceding tahle will be 
applied to the census population, as enumerated in 1901, to deduce the average 
Life-capital for males, females, and persons. 

It will be seen that these values are considerably in excess of those of the 
Life-Table population, because in a census of a population among whom the 
births have been exceeding the deaths, there will be a larger proportion of those 
living in the earlier age-groups of life than in a stationary Life-Table 
population. 

Average Life-capital of the population of England and Wales as enumerated 
at the census of 1901 

(a) according to Life-Table I., 

(6) excess according to Life-Table II., 

(c) deficiency according to Life-Table III. 





(b) 


(a) 


(c) 


Males 


... +1-96 


3613 


-0-35 


Females 


+ 1-46 


37-59 


-0-48 


Persons 


... +1-71 


36-88 


-0-42 



The last of this series of comparisons will be devoted to showing how the 
total expectation of life at hirtli is, on the average, distributed over the main 
age-periods of life 

(a) according to Life-Tables I., 

[h] differences of excess according to Life-Table II., 

(c) differences of deficiency according to Life-Table III. 

Males. Females. 



Age-periods. 


(b) 


(a) 


(c) 


■ (b) 


(«) 


(c) 


0—5 


+ 0-01 


3-99 


-001 ... 


... +0-01 


414 


+ 0-00 


5—15 


+ 0-02 


7-36 


-001 ... 


... +0-02 


7-67 


-0-01 


15—65 


+ 1-67 


29-33 


-0-35 ... 


... +1-46 


31-45 


-0-53 


65 and 


+ 0-52 


3-43 


-008 ... 


... +0-44 


4-47 


-0-14 


upwards 















Totals +2-22 4411 -0*45 +193 4773 -068 

The leading points brought out by this series of comparisons are:- - 

1. If there had been no mortality from Phthisis in England and Wales 

during 1891—1900 

Males would have had 

(1) expectation of life at birth increased by 2-22 years, 

(2) average existence during working period of life lengthened by r67 years, 

(3) average ife-capital increased by 196 years. 
Females would have had 

(1) expectation of life at birth increased by 1-93 years, 

(2) average existence during working period of life lengthened by 1-46 
years. 



178 HAY WARD 

(3) average life-capital lengthened by 1*46 years, 

2. As the result of the decrease in the mortality from Phthisis during 
1891—1900 as compared with 1881—90, 
Males have had 

(1) expectation of life at birth increased by 0*45 year, 

(2) working period of life prolonged by 0-35 year, 

(3) average increase in life-capital of 0*35 year. 

Females have had 

(1) expectation of life at birth increased by 0"68 year 

(2) working period of life prolonged by 053 year, 

(3) average increase in life-capital of 048 year. 

An inspection of the diagrams and detailed Life-Tables will serve to 
demonstrate many other interesting points which time and space will not permit 
to be fully referred to. 

The diagrams showing /^, l^^ and E^ curves have only been prepared for 
males. Those drawn on a large scale shown at the Lecture extend from age to 
age 85. On the smaller scale upon Avhich they are published they have had to 
be curtailed. 

The Lecturer desires to make acknowledgment of the help received in pre- 
paring the diagrams from Mr. W. R. Maddison of Haydock, and also of the great 
aid given by Mr. Clias. Dickinson, Sanitary Inspector of Haydock, in performing 
a large portion of the routine calculation in the working out of the series of Life 
Tables. Without such efficient help it would not have been possible to complete 
the task. 

A debt of gratitude is also due to Mr. A. C. Waters for his kindness in having 
read through the original M.S. and given helpful criticism. 



THREE LIFE-TABLES FOR ENGLAND AND WALES, 1891—1900. 

No. I. based on the total mortality from all causes. 

No. II. based on the hvpothesis that there had been no deaths from Phthisis 
during 1891—1900. 

No. III. based on the hypothesis that Phthisis had prevailed during 1891 — 
1900 with the same proportionate intensity as in 1881 — 90. 

In order to economise space it is only proposed to give the p^^ Ij; and E^e^ values 
for each separate age from age to age 85, and to indicate 

in columns (a) the results of Life-Tables I., 

in columns (6) the differences from Life-Table I. of the corresponding values 
of Life-Tables IL, 

in columns (c) the differences from Life-Table I. of the corresponding values 
of Life-Table III. 





( 


::;oNSTRuc 


TION OF 


LIFE-TABLES 




179 




Chance of Living One Year at Each Age x 

•J. 








Males. 


^x. 




Females. 




Ageic. 


(b) 


(a) 


"^ 


ib) 


(a) 


(c) 





+00061 


•82861 


•00028 .... 


.. + -00050 


•85963 . - 


-00025 


1 


+ •00061 


•94696 


•00012 .... 


.. + -00053 


•95061 


-00018 


2 


+ •00034 


97922 


00005 .... 


.. + -00029 


97990 


-00007 


3 


+00023 


•98685 


00003 .... 


.. + -00024 


•98669 


-00003 


4 


+ •00021 


99033 


00002 .... 


.. + -00021 


•99047 


•00006 


5 


+00025 


•99295 


•00006 .... 


.. + -00021 


•99305 


-00010 


6 


+ •00021 


99482 


•00008 .... 


.. + -00021 


•99484 


•00010 


7 


+ 00016 


-99612 


•00009 .... 


.. + -00022 


•99605 


-00008 


8 


+00011 


99698 


•00009 .... 


.. + -00023 


•99685 


-00008 


9 


+ •00009 


99749 


•00008 .... 


.. + -00027 


•99732 


•00009 


10 


+00010 


99774 


00009 .... 


.. + -00032 


•99756 


•00012 


11 


+00014 


99778 


00010 .... 


.. + -00039 


-99761 


•00015 


12 


+ •00021 


99767 


00010 .... 


.. + -00049 


-99753 


•00019 


13 


+ •00031 


99746 


•00013 .... 


.. + -00060 


-99737 


-00024 


14 


+ -00044 


99718 


•00015 .... 


.. + -00072 


-99715 


-00030 


15 


+ •00060 


99686 


00017 .... 


.. + -00085 


-99691 


-00036 


16 


+ •00076 


99654 


00021 .... 


.. + -00100 


-99666 


-00042 


17 


+ •00095 


99622 


00026 .... 


.. + -00115 


•99641 


-00048 


18 


+ •00115 


99591 


00030 .... 


.. + -00129 


•99618 


•00054 


19 


+ ^00134 


99563 


00035 .... 


. + -00142 


99597 


•00060 


20 


+00154 


99537 


00040 .... 


. + -00156 


99577 


•00065 


21 


+ •00173 


99513 


00045 .... 


. + -00167 


99559 


•00070 


22 


+ •00191 


99491 


00050 .... 


. + -00176 


99543 


•00076 


23 


+00207 


99470 


00054 .... 


.. + -00183 


99526 


•00084 


24 


+00221 


99451 


00059 .... 


. + -00189 


99509 


•00084 


25 


+ 00232 


99431 


00062 .... 


. + -00192 


99490 


00087 


26 


+ •00241 


99409 


00065 .... 


. +^00195 


99469 


00090 


27 


+00250 


99383 


00067 .... 


. + -00197 


99446 


00091 


28 


+ ■00257 


99355 


0006S .... 


. + -00199 


99420 


00091 


29 


+ 00262 


99325 


00069 .... 


. + 00201 


99391 


00089 


30 


+00267 


99291 


00068 .... 


. + -00203 


99361 


00088 


31 


+ ^00270 


99255 


00067 .... 


. + 00205 


99329 


00085 


32 


+ 00273 


99216 


00065 .... 


. + -00206 


99296 


00082 


33 


+ ^00277 


99174 


00063 .... 


. + -00208 


99262 


00079 


34 


+ ^00280 


99129 


00060 .... 


. + -00209 


99227 


00075 


35 


+ -00282 


99083 


00058 .... 


. + 00210 


99192 


00072 


36 


+ •00285 


99036 


00055 .... 


. + -00211 


99158 


00069 


37 


+ -00289 


98988 


00052 .... 


. +00211 


99126 


00065 


38 


+ -00293 


98939 


00050 .... 


. +00209 


99095 


00062 


39 


+00296 


98889 


00048 


. + ^00207 


99064 


00060 



180 






HAYWAIID 














A. 












Males 






Females 




Age X. 


(^) 


(a) 


(c) 


(6) 


(a) 


(c) 


40 


+00301 


-98836 


-•00047 


+ -00203 


•99033 


- •00058 


41 


+ -00305 


•98780 


-•00045 


+ -00200 


•98999 


-00056 


42 


+ -00309 


-98720 


-00043 


+ -00195 


•98963 


-00054 


43 


+00312 


-98656 


-•00042 


+ -00192 


•98922 


-00052 


44 


+00315 


•98586 


-•00040 


+ -00188 


•98877 


-•00050 


45 


+00317 


•98511 


-•00039 


+ -00184 


•98826 


- 00048 


46 


+ -00317 


•98430 


-•00038 


+00181 


•98768 


-00046 


47 


+00317 


•98342 


-•00037 


-00176 


•98704 


+ 00045 


48 


+ -00316 


•98248 


-•00036 


+00171 


•98633 


-•00044 


49 


+ -00314 


-98147 


-00035 


+ •00166 


•98554 


- -00042 


50 


+00310 


-98040 


-00035 


+00161 


•98469 


-00040 


51 


+ -00307 


•97925 


-•00034 


+00156 


•98377 


- -00038 


52 


+ -00302 


•97803 


- -00033 


+00151 


•98277 


-00036 


53 


+ -00296 


•97674 


-00033 


+ •00146 


•98170 


-00035 


54 


+00290 


•97536 


- -00032 


+ 00141 


•98055 


-00033 


55 


+ -00283 


•97389 


-00031 


+ •00136 


•97932 


- -00033 


56 


+ -00277 


•97231 


--00031 


+00133 


•97797 


-00030 


57 


+ -00270 


•97060 


-00030 


+ ^00128 


•97651 


-00029 


58 


+00262 


•96875 


-•00029 


+00124 


•97491 


- -00028 


59 


+00252 


•96675 


-•00029 


+00119 


■97316 


- -00028 


60 


+00243 


•96456 


-•00028 


+00116 


•97122 


-00026 


61 


+ -00233 


•96217 


-00028 


+00111 


•96909 


- 00025 


62 


+ 00223 


•95956 


-00027 


+00107 


•96674 


-00024 


63 


+ -00213 


•95669 


-00026 


+00103 


•96414 


-•00023 


64 


+00201 


•95356 


-•00026 


+ ^00098 


-96128 


-00022 


65 


+ -00190 


•95013 


-•00025 


+ ^00094 


-95813 


-00020 


66 


+ -00178 


•94638 


•-00024 


+ ^00089 


-95468 


-00019 


67 


+00166 


•94230 


-00023 


+ •00084 


-95091 


-•00018 


68 


+00154 


•93786 


-00023 


+ ^00078 


-94679 


-00017 


69 


+ -00142 


•93304 


-00022 


+ -00074 


-94232 


-00016 


70 


+ -00130 


•92780 


-00021 


+ -00069 


•93746 


-00015 


71 


+ -00118 


•92213 


-00020 


+ -00064 


-93219 


-00013 


72 


+ -00106 


•91601 


-00020 


+ ^00059 


-92651 


-00012 


73 


+ -00094 


•90941 


-00019 


+ ^00054 


•92039 


-00010 


74 


+ •00083 


•90230 


-00017 


+ ^00049 


•91381 


-00009 


75 


+ -00073 


•89467 


-00016 


+ ^00044 


•90676 


- -00008 


76 


+ -00063 


•88650 


-00015 


+ ^00039 


•89921 


- -00007 


77 


+ -00053 


•87776 


-00014 


+ •00034 


•89115 


- -00006 


78 


+ -00045 


•86843 


-00013 


+ ^00031 


•88256 


- 00004 


79 


+ -00037 


•85851 


-00012 


+ •00027 


•87344 


- 00004 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 

p.. 



181 



Males 



Females 



Age X. 
80 

81 

82 
83 
84 


Kb) 
+ -00031 
+ -00026 
+ -00021 
+ -00018 
+ -00016 


(^0 
•84796 
•83679 
•82498 
-81253 
•79942 


-00010 ... 
-00009 ... 
-00007 ... 
-00007 ... 
- -00005 ... 


(6) 

... + -00024 
... + -00021 
... + -00018 
... +00015 
... +00014 


{n) 

-86377 

•85354- 

-84274 

-83137 

-81941 


-00003 
- -00002 
- -00001 
+ 00000 
+00001 


85 


+00015 


•78566 


-00004 ... 


... + -00013 


-80688 


+ -00001 


90 


+ -00036 


•70717 


+ -00005 ... 


... + -00018 


-73559 


+ 00001 


95 


+ •00092 


•61409 


+ 00010 ... 


... t -00041 


-65099 


-•00001 


100 


+ -00172 


•51049 


+ -00011 ... 


... + -00081 


-55602 


-•00006 



Number of Survivors at Each Age x out of a Million Born 








— 


1,000,000 


1 


+ 


608 


828,613 


2 


+ 


1,083 


784,666 


3 


+ 


1,322 


768,364 


4 


+ 


1,483 


758,262 


5 


+ 


1,635 


750,926 


6 


+ 


1,812 


745,633 


7 


+ 


1,963 


741,771 


8 


+ 


2,071 


738,896 


9 


+ 


2,149 


736,664 


10 


+ 


2,212 


734,818 


11 


+ 


2,280 


733,157 


12 


+ 


2,376 


731,530 


13 


+ 


2,524 


729,826 


14 


+ 


2,743 


727,972 


15 


+ 


3,055 


725,919 


16 


+ 


3,476 


723,645 


17 


+ 


4,019 


721,142 


18 


+ 


4,693 


718,415 


19 


+ 


5,503 


715,479 



4. 

— — 1,000,000 — 

279 + 505 859,627 - 244 

•366 + 941 817,167 - 387 

400 + 1,166 800,740 - 439 

■417 + 1,341 790,082 - 461 

423 + 1,490 782,554 - 502 

465 + 1,646 777,118 - 580 

519 + 1,799 773,109 - 655 

582 + 1,957 770,058 - 718 

644 + 2,128 767,630 - 778 

705 + 2,326 765,577 - 847 

767 + 2,565 763,709 - 934 

835 + 2,860 761,886 - 1,048 

908 + 3,223 760,010 - 1,194 

1,004 + 3,669 758,012 - 1,377 

1,096 + 4,208 755,854 - 1,600 

1,221 + 4,844 753,519 - 1,866 

1,370 + 5,585 751,001 - 2,175 

1,547 + 0,430 748,307 - 2,525 

1,757 + 7,376 745,451 - 2,919 



182 



Age X 

20 
21 
22 
23 
24 

25 
26 

27 
28 
29 

30 
31 
32 
33 
34 

35 
36 
37 
38 
39 

40 
41 
42 
•43 

44 

45 

46 
47 
48 
49 

50 
51 
52 
53 
54 

55 
56 
57 
58 
59 



HAYWAllD 

t-x. 



Mules 



Females 



(6) (a) (c) (6) (a) (c) 

+ 6,451 712,351 -1,998 + 8,417 742,447 - 3,351 

+ 7,531 709,052 -2,274 + 9,545 739,312 - 3,822 

+ 8,737 705,599 -2,581 +10,750 736,056 - 4,326 

+ 10,057 702,010 -2,920 +12,014 732,690 - 4,861 

-^11,477 698,295 -3,287 +13,325 729,216 - 5,421 

+ 12,077 694,463 -3,679 +14,663 725,634 - 6,004 

+ 14,542 690,512 -4,089 +16,009 721,936 - 6,603 

+ 16,154 686,431 -4,513 +17,359 718,105 - 7,210 

+ 17,806 682,201 -4,943 +18,710 714,125 - 7,815 

+ 19,484 677,806 -5,373 +20,059 709,982 - 8,410 

+ 21,178 673,231 -5,797 +21,405 705,661 - 8,987 

+ 22,879 668,460 -6,209 +22,741 701,154 - 9,541 

+ 24,578 663,479 -6,604 +24,068 696,452 -10,067 

+ 26,268 658,277 -6,979 +25,381 691,551 -10,560 

+ 27,943 652,842 -7,331 +26,681 686,448 -11,019 

+ 29,600 647,160 -7,656 +27,965 681,141 -11,443 

+ 31,236 641,226 -7,953 +29,231 675,636 -11,832 

+ 32,850 635,045 -8,224 +30,473 669,947 -12,187 

+ 34,444 628,621 -8,470 +31,678 664,095 -12,512 

+ 36,018 621,955 -8,692 +32,842 658,088 -12,807 

+ 37,568 615,046 -8,893 +33,959 651,932 -13,076 

+ 39,093 607,887 -9,071 +35,024 645,626 -13,319 

+ 40,588 600,471 -9,230 +36,030 639,164 -13,538 

+ 42,048 592,786 -9,369 +36,977 632,533 -13,734 

+ 43,463 584,819 -9,489 +37,862 625,716 -13,908 

+ 44,827 576,553 -9,590 +38,683 618,690 -14,059 

+ 46,128 567,971 -9,672 +39,440 611,428 -14,187 

+ 47,354 559,054 -9,734 +40,126 603,899 -14,292 

+ 48,492 549,788 -9,779 +40,739 596,072 -14,370 

+ 49,532 540,157 -9,804 +41,271 587,922 -14,425 

+ 50,462 530,151 -9,811 +41,719 579,422 -14,453 

+ 51,273 519,760 -9,799 +42,081 570,551 -14,455 

+ 51,956 508,978 -9,768 +42,353 561,289 -14,430 

+ 52,504 497,799 -9,718 +42,535 551,618 -14,381 

+ 52,909 486,221 -9,651 +42,625 541,523 -14,304 

+ 53,179 474,241 -9,564 +42,623 530,990 -14,201 

+ 53,276 461,859 -9,459 +42,526 520,007 -14,073 

+ 53,227 449,070 -9,335 +42,335 508,554 -13,919 

+ 53,014 435,870 -9,193 +42,045 496,611 -13,739 

+ 52,635 422,252 -9,031 +41,659 484,152 -13,532 



CONSTEUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 183 



Males 



Age X. (h) (a) 

60 +52,083 408,212 

61 +51,357 393,745 

62 +50,452 378,850 

63 +49,370 363,528 

64 +48,109 347,785 

65 +46,672 331,633 

66 +45,061 315,095 

67 +43,287 298,201 

68 +41,357 280,996 

69 +39,283 263,537 

70 +37,082 245,890 

71 +34,773 228,137 

72 +32,374 210,374 

73 +29,912 192,705 

74 +27,413 175,247 

75 +24,904 158,126 

76 +22,414 141,471 

77 +19,973 125,414 

78 +17,609 110,083 

79 +15,350 95,600 

80 +13,220 82,073 

81 + 11,239 69,595 

82 + 9,425 58,237 

83 + 7,790 48,045 

84 + 6,339 39,038 

85 + 5,076 31,207 
90 + 1,260 7,667 
95 + 176 1,039 
100 + . 12 64 







Females 




(c) 


{b) 


[a) 


(c) 


■8,849 ... 
8,647 ... 
8,426 ... 
8,185 ... 
7,923 ... 


... +41,171 

... +40,578 
... +39,880 
... +39,072 
... +38,153 


471,155 
457,596 
443,451 
428,700 
413,327 


-13,297 
-13,034 
- 12,742 
- 12,421 
-12,070 


7,642 ... 
7,342 ... 
7,023 ... 
6,686 ... 
6,334 ... 


... +37,120 
... +35,973 
... +34,714 
... +33,345 
... +31,870 


397,323 
380,688 
363,436 
345,594 
327,207 


-11,689 
-11,278 
- 10,839 
-10,370 

- 9,874 


5,966 ... 
5,586 ... 
5,197 ... 
4,800 ... 
4,399 ... 


... +30,297 
... +28,635 
... +26,902 
... +25,092 
... +23,242 


308,333 
289,050 
269,451 
249,651 
229,776 


- 9,355 

- 8,813 

- 8,252 

- 7,677 

- 7,091 


3,999 ... 
3,603 ... 
3,216 ... 

2,840 ... 
2,480 ... 


... +21,362 

... +19,471 
... +17,590 
... +15,738 
... +13,945 


209,972 
190,394 
171,204 
152,568 
134,651 


- 6,501 

- 5,912 

- 5,329 

- 4,759 

- 4,207 


2,140 ... 
1,823 ... 
1,532 ... 
1,269 ... 
994 ... 


... +12,219 

... +10,585 
... + 9,058 
... + 7,650 
... + 6,372 


117,611 

101,589 

86,710 

73,074 

60,752 


- 3,680 

- 3,182 

- 2,718 

- 2,291 

- 1,906 


808 ... 


... + 5,231 


49,781 


- 1,561 


203 ... 


... + 1,517 


14,303 


- 448 


27 ... 


... + 264 


2,444 


- 77 


2 ... 


... + 24 


211 


6 



184 



JIAYWAUI) 



Table Showing at CertaiiV Ages the Proportional Increase and 
Decrease of the l^ Values of Life-Tables II. and III. Respectively 
AS Compared with Life-Table I., Expressed as Changes Per Cent. 



Males 



Females 



Ages 


(b) 


(c) 


{b) 


(c) 


5 .. 


. + 0-21 


.. -0-06 


+ 0-19 


.. -007 


10 .. 


+ 0-30 


.. -0-10 


+ 0-30 


.. -0-12 


15 .. 


+ 0-42 


.. -0-16 


+ 0-55 


.. -0-22 


20 .. 


+ 0-90 


.. -0-28 


+ 113 


.. -0-46 


25 .. 


. + 1-86 


-0-53 


+ 2-02 


-0-83 


30 .. 


+ 3-14 


-0-87 


+ 3-03 


-1-28 


35 .. 


+ 4-57 


-1-19 


+ 4-10 


.. -1-68 


40 .. 


. + 610 


-1-45 


+ 5-20 


.. -201 


45 .. 


+ 7-77 


.. -1-67 


+ 6-25 


-2-28 


50 .. 


. + 9-51 


-1-86 


+ 7-20 


.. -2-50 


55 .. 


. +11-21 


.. -2-02 


+ 8-02 


-2-68 


60 .. 


+ 12-75 


-217 


+ 8-74 


-2-83 


65 .. 


. +1407 


.. -2-31 


+ 9-34 


.. -2-95 


70 


+ 15-08 


.. -2-43 


+ 9-82 


-3-03 


75 .. 


. +15-74 


-2-53 


+ 10-17 


.. -3-09 


80 .. 


. +16-10 


.. -2-61 


+ 10-39 


.. -3-12 


85 .. 


. +16-26 


.. -2-65 


+ 10-50 


-313 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 



185 



Mean Expectation of Life or Mean After-Lifetime at Age x 



Males 



Females 



\ 



\ 



Ages X. 


{h) 


{«) 


('•) 


(6) 


(«) 


(') 





+ 2-22 


4411 


-0-45 


+ 1-93 


47-73 


-0-68 


1 


+ 2-63 


5215 


-0-52 


+ 2-22 


54-45 


-0-77 


2 


+ 2-75 


5404 


-0-54 


+ 2-30 


56-26 


-0-80 


3 


+ 2-79 


54-18 


-0-55 


+ 2-33 


56-40 


-0-81 


4 


+ 2-82 


53-89 


-0-55 


+ 2-34 


56-16 


-0-83 


5 


+ 2-83 


53-41 


-0-55 


+ 2-36 


55-69 


-0-83 


6 


-I-2-83 


52-79 


-0-56 


+ 2-36 


55-08 


-0-83 


7 


+ 2-84 


52-06 


-0-56 


+ 2-36 


54-36 


-0-83 


8 


+ 2-84 


51-26 


-0-56 


+ 2-35 


53-58 


-0-83 


9 


+ 2-84 


50-42 


-0-56 


+ 2-35 


52-74 


-0-82 


10 


+ 2-85 


49-54 


-0-55 


+ 2-35 


51-88 


-0-82 


11 


+ 2-85 


48-65 


-0-54 


+ 2-33 


51-01 


-0-82 


12 


+ 2-84 


47-76 


-0-54 


+ 2-32 


50-13 


-0-81 


13 


+ 2-84 


46-87 


-0-54 


+ 2-30 


49-25 


-0-80 


14 


+ 2-83 


45-99 


-0-54 


+ 2-27 


48-38 


-0-79 


15 


+ 2-82 


4512 


-0-54 


+ 2-24 


47-52 


-0-78 


16 


+ 2-80 


44-26 


-0-53 


+ 2-22 


46-66 


-0-76 


17 


+ 2-77 


43-41 


-0-52 


+ 2-17 


45-82 


-0-75 


18 


+ 2-74 


42-57 


-0-51 


+ 212 


44-98 


-0-73 


19 


+ 2-69 


41-75 


-0-50 


+ 2-07 


44-15 


-0-71 


20 


+ 2-65 


40-93 


-0-49 


+ 2-01 


43-33 


-0-69 


21 


+ 2-60 


40-11 


-0-47 


+ 1-95 


42-51 


-0-66 


22 


+ 2-53 


39-31 


-0-46 


+ 1-88 


41-70 


-0-64 


23 


+ 2-47 


38-51 


-0-44 


+ 1-81 


40-89 


-0-61 


24 


+ 2-40 


37-71 


-0-42 


+ 1-75 


4008 


-0-58 


25 


+ 2-33 


36-91 


-0-40 


+ 1-68 


39-27 


-0.54 


26 


+ 2-25 


36-12 


-^0-38 


+ 1-61 


38-47 


-0-52 


27 


+ 217 


35-33 


-0-37 


+ 1-54 


37-67 


-0-48 


28 


+ 2-09 


34-55 


-0-34 


+ 1-47 


35-88 


-0-45 


29 


+ 201 


33-77 


-0-32 


+ 1-41 


3609 


-0-42 


30 


+ 1-93 


33-00 


-0-30 


+ 1-34 


35-31 


-0-39 


31 


+ 1-85 


32-23 


-0-28 


+ 1-27 


34-54 


-0-37 


32 


+ 1-77 


31-47 


-0-26 


+ 1-21 


33-76 


-0-34 


33 


+ 1-70 


30-71 


-0-24 


+ 114 


33-00 


-0-31 


34 


+ 1-62 


29-96 


-0-22 


+ 1-08 


32-24 


-0-29 



186 




Males 


HAYWARD 




Females 




Age a; 


(*) 


(a) 


(0 


(fe) 


(a) 


(c 


35 


+ 1-55 


29-22 


-0-20 


+ 1-02 


31-49 


-0-26 


36 


+ 1-47 


28-49 


-0-19 


+ 0-96 


30-74 


-0-25 


37 


+ 1-40 


27-76 


-018 


+ 0-90 


3000 


-0-23 


38 


+ 1-33 


27-04 


-0-17 


+ 0-84 


29-26 


-0-21 


39 


+ 1-26 


26-33 


-0-16 


+ 0-79 


28-52 


-0-20 


40 


+ 1-21 


25-62 


-015 


+ 0-73 


27-79 


-019 


41 


+ 113 


24-91 


-0-13 


+ 0-69 


27-05 


-016 


42 


+ 106 


24-21 


-012 


+ 0-64 


26-32 


-0-15 


43 


+ 100 


23-52 


-0-12 


+ 0-59 


25-59 


-0-14 


44 


+ 0-94 


22-83 


-0-11 


+ 0-54 


24-87 


-0-13 


45 


+ 0-87 


22-16 


-0-11 


+ 0-51 


24-14 


-012 


46 


+ 0-81 


21-48 


-0-09 


+ 0-47 


23-42 


-0-11 


47 


+ 0-76 


20-81 


-0-08 


+ 0-43 


22-71 


-0-10 


48 


+ 0-70 


20-16 


-008 


+ 0-39 


22-00 


-0-09 


49 


+ 0-64 


19-51 


-0-07 


+ 0-36 


21-30 


-0-08 


50 


+ 0-59 


18-87 


-007 


+ 0-33 


20-60 


-007 


51 


+ 0-54 


18-24 


-0-07 


+ 0-30 


19-92 


-007 


52 


+ 0-50 


17-61 


-006 


+ 0-27 


19-24 


-006 


53 


+ 0-45 


1700 


-006 


+ 0-25 


18-57 


-006 


54 


+ 0-41 


16-39 


-005 


+ 0-23 


17-90 


-005 


55 


+ 0-37 


15-79 


-0-04 


+ 0-20 


17-25 


-005 


56 


+ 0-34 


15-20 


-0-04 


+ 0-19 


16-60 


-0-04 


57 


+ 0-30 


14-62 


-0-04 


+ 016 


15-97 


-0-04 


58 


+ 0-27 


14-05 


-0-04 


+ 0-15 


15-34 


-0-03 


59 


+ 0-24 


13-48 


-0-03 


+ 0-13 


14-72 


-0-03 


60 


+ 0-21 


12-93 


-003 


+ 0-12 


1411 


-0-03 


61 


+ 0-18 


12-39 


-0-03 


+ 0-10 


13-52 


-0-03 


62 


+ 016 


11-86 


-0-03 


+ 009 


12-93 


-0-02 


63 


+ 014 


11-33 


-0-02 


+ 0-08 


12-36 


-0-02 


64 


+ 013 


10-82 


-0-02 


+ 007 


11-80 


-0-02 


65 


+ 010 


10-33 


-0-02 


+ 0-06 


11-26 


-0-02 


66 


+ 009 


9-84 


-001 


+ 0-05 


10-73 


-0-02 


67 


+ 008 


9-37 


-0-01 


+ 0-05 


10-21 


-0-01 


68 


+ 006 


8-92 


-0-01 


+ 004 


9-71 


-0-01 


69 


+ 006 


8-47 


-0-01 


+ 0-04 


9-23 


-0-01 


70 


+ 004 


8-05 


-001 


+ 0-02 


8-77 


-0-01 


71 


+ 003 


7-64 


-001 


+ 0-02 


8-32 


-0-01 


72 


+ 003 


7-24 


-001 


+ 0-02 


7-89 


-001 


73 


+ 002 


6-86 


-0-01 


+ 002 


7-47 


-001 


74 


+ 002 


6-49 


±0-00 


+ 0-01 


7-08 


-001 



Age a; 


'(b) 


(n) i 


75 


+ 002 


614 


76 


+ 002 


5-80 


77 


+ 0-01 


5-48 


78 


+ 001 


518 


79 


+ 001 


4-89 


80 


+ 001 


4-61 


81 


+ 001 


4-35 


82 


+ 001 


410 


83 


+ 000 


3-87 


84 


— 


3-65 


85 


— 


3-44 


90 


— 


2-56 


95 


— 


1-92 


100 





1-43 



CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 187 

Males Females 

~(r^) 



'(b) 

+ 001 


(a) 

6-70 


(C-) 
-001 


+ 001 


6-33 


+ 000 


+ 0-01 


5-99 


— 


+ 001 


5-66 


— 


+ 001 


5-35 


— 


+ 000 


505 


_ 


— 


4-77 


— 


— 


4-50 


— 


— 


4-25 


— 


— 


401 


— 


— 


3-79 


— 


— 


2-84 


— 


— 


215 


— 





1-63 






Table Showing at Certain Ages the Proportional Increase and 
Decrease of the E^ Values of Life-Tables II. and III, Respectively, 
as Compared with Life-Table L, Expressed as Changes Per Cent. 

Males Females 

Ages (Jb) (c) ib) (c) 

+503 -102 +404 -142 

5 +5-29 -102 +4-23 -149 

10 +5-75 -111 +4-52 -1-57 

15 +6-25 -119 +4-71 -164 

20 +6-47 -119 +4-63 -159 

25 +6-31 -108 +4-27 -137 

30 +5-84 -0-90 +3-79 -I'lO 

35 +5-30 -0-68 +323 -082 

40 +4-72 -0-58 +2-62 -068 

45 +3-92 -0-49 +211 -049 

50 +2-96 -0-39 +160 -034 

65 +2-34 -0-25 +1-16 -028 

60 +1-62 -0-23 +0-85 -020 

65 +0-96 -019 +0-53 -017 

70 +0-49 -Oil +0-22 -Oil 

According to Life-Table II. the greatest percentage increase is, for males, 
6-48 at age 21, and for females, 4*75 at age 16. Accordin«f to Life-Table HI. 
the greatest percentage decrease is, for males, 1-19 at the ages from 15 to 20, and 
tor females, r64 at age 15. 



188 



HAYWAllD 



England and Wales, 1891—1900. 
Males. 
p^ Curves. 

{a) based on the total mortality from all causes {Middle crit-ve). 

(b) based on the supposition that Phthisis had been eliminated as a cause of mortality 

[U2)per Curve). 

(c) based on the supposition that the mortality from Phthisis had been the same as 

in 1881-90 [Louver curve). 




CONSTRUCTION OF LIFE-TABLES 



189 



England and Wales, 1891—1900. 

Malks. 

l^ Curves. 

(a) based on the total mortality from all causes {Middle curve). 

(b) based on the supposition that Phthisis had been eliminated as a cause of mortality 

{Uj)per curve). 

(c) based on the supposition that the mortality from Phthisis had been the same as 

in 1881-90 {Lower curve). 



























1 


~'\ 


1 
1 


—7 














H- 




-1 


1 


-\ 


— 


1 
•~1 


1 










1 






1 . 




. : 1 , 1 i 1 


i ' ' 


■, 




J aaiutt 




r 




\ :M :! 


' :• 








1 












! : 


■i 




1 






96aad. 

fsoeo 

^. aaaoa. 


1 








, 1 


























1 




























i 




; ' 


i 




; 




■- 1 . 




. 
















1 




r 
















■j 






'' '! 










1 
1 








!^ 






















" 












'1 




3IOOO \ \ 








■ i 
j 


■1 


; 




















' 




1 








\ \ 


1 


' ■ 




; [ 03004 


\ : 








i 


" i 


!. 




















'1 










I 


1 ; 




1 








\ arood- 

^ &6C0O 


' ■ 


1 
i 




i 


■ 1 










- 






i 
















1 asoac V : 


- : 1 ; 




i 


i ■ ■ 


__]__ 






1 ' 








; i ■ 


















1 iaooo 

1 ^ .azaar., 
j aiood 








■i 


! 
































\ 










■ ! 


.1 


1 


1 






■ 'j 














M 




faamr 


\ 


1 


i : i 










1 . 








■ i 














































r . fro^^ ! \ 




' 




~p'T^ 


|:. 






i : ■ 




. 1- 


























: 












. 


..1 










- [ . 


1 












■ "S 














- 










!' 


""f* 








1 


1 


i' 




■ 










■ !' 


















^ 


'~< 




•r- 






■■ : 










i '7/oee\ :. ; 




M". 




*», 


"^^4-4 


..^^ 


! 


T" 


■ 




. ■ 




1 


. 














" ; ! - 








i ' ■ 




<*«'<', i 


: .i 


! ■ 








l^lt^m:^ 


^\ 


1 




■■ 






















ffOOO 

66atfo 




-.| 














^ 


1 N 


\ 


























6foo^ 






:! ; 












1 1 


"^ 






"S ■ 






















Oiooo 


1 


.' |-: ■ 






'-'■' 


'i 


- ' ^■.. 




,■ i 




^ 


N 




















{ «iat» T 


', ! 




1 








!^i '■ 


■1 ; 


i ; 






i 


^ 


^ 




K 






• . 
















:,; , 




-; ,. 


..,i„.> 


i !■. 


, 










■■ ' ' 






' V- 


i 


.'j 












^ 


V , 


H-i^ 


• 












S/oco 


, ^ i 


i • 






_1 - 


1 






■\ 












■ i'"^ 


. • 1 : ■ . 
s 1 ■ 


■'1,. 














^N. 




















I 


'. I 


J 


. 1 


: 
1 -' , 








■ ■■.!;''' 
















i'; 


^ 


v\i " 


\ ] 












\ S»M<^ 1 ' ■ ; 


. i 




;-i-M • 










1 ' 

! . j 


-.:!- 










i''- 




•' i . 


\k 


\ 












Seaae 








. 






"\ -^ 








■ '\ 


T-T 

- i • 


. ;• 






-/]^ 


^.■^' 


^ 












■.■'.! 


















■\ ■ 


■ ■.!■ ' 












%■ 




V '■'■ 


■ ■ 1 










^ -A. 




















\ 








V 








;^ 




'\ 


M~t 


^.' 








1 ■ 


■ 












I 














•'•\ 




■;■ 






. : 1 


1 - 






1 , 


















S\i 








*fieoo 


r 




^-rvr 




*^ 


i 




r- 








■ -T-r 


•■■"I- :'' 
1 ■ ■ 


'^■, 




'V "1 "■ 






:?k\ 


,'. ; 


' 








_'^ 










• 






•HfOf^ I 












, ,. 
















1 


w. 




'■ ';'. 








r 








. 1,. ' i -l-L 










\\ 










' 












.::- 












1 ■ 








: i^^^ \o ' 1 i\* A' ' 


j» j/f -» 


ii H 


fiS 


/{ ^ 


1 m 


Y' fi 


4* c 


!.;is\iS2, 


'Uli 


in A 


it a\Mi 


<» ; 


HH 


tf*^*! 


«wj*<? 


•**^ 


aju'^da 


kfj^^'a 


» \ 


\ 




I.I,'; I 


■ 




[-1 


-.! 


"■''1. 


ii- 






, ' : 1 11 


- 


















•'U 


^ 


\ 








1 


_-- 


. _ 


4 


















,- 



190 



HAYWARD 



England and Wales, 1891 — 1900. 

Males. 

E^ Curves. 

(a) based on the total mortality from all causes (^Middle curve). 

{b) based on the supposition that Phthisis had been eliminated as a cause of mortality 

{Uppei' curve). 
(c) based on the supposition that the mortality from Phthisis had been the same as 

in 1881-90 {Lmver curve). 



i 


W\ 


1 


i 


m 


9: 


m 




iiftt* 


U^|- 


\ . i 


1 ..; 








^ 


■ 1 




1 








■U !:: - 1 


i ' ! 1 


j 






j ; 




\ 


i 












sikoo 


V 


1 ^ 


1 


\ 


' \.1A 




1 


■. 1 : ; : 1 ; 




^:^=^ 1 


\ 


\ 


_--.]«_ 


! 




1 








- 1 ' 1 1 1 


■ 






-n 






. - .„- ._ i 




■ i ! ■ ' 






- ; — r- 




: '! 






















' 1 




f / ' 


\ 


















i i ,■ : 






*3 00 


II' 


: 




s 




































\, 




■) 






■ ' ' 




















^■oa\\ j 






s 


^ 


\j 








1 




■ j 


r 


i ■ 








i ZZT^\ 




1 




^ 




\ 








" ! ■ 




\ 




\y 




* ■ ■ 






^s oo 1 


! 














\ 


, 1 


1 


1'-: 


I 








\ 


















! 


i 






^.oo \ ; \ 






j^ 


^^ 








\ 




\ 


f""^ 


'- i 1 iU 1 






: 






1 


^^ 


H, 














i , 


1 


i V- !■ 




.j&Jia.^ 










1. 




i i ' 


■ 






: , 1 j i 




! 




1 


"N-^ 


nJ 










1 


j 


i 


























if<w 


■;■■■ 


i 


\ 


: i 












^^ 




\ 


■ 














i 










i 


1/ 


i 














'^ 


\ 


\ 






L _ 




:_r ..L- 




' ■ 




J/voa 


"i 


























\ 


\ 




1 ■ 
t 




Ts 








29 oo 1 I 1 


































■ 
1 


j.; 






' 




26, la. 


— r— 


































X 


K 
































, : : 




















N 


N 








1- 


























. 






■ 




i ; i 














1 "^ 


^^ 
















j 




















T «/i-^^ 




;i' 




■• \ . 




' 












V 




' 










1 


*^ 


V 






■1 




























t9 oo 








\ 


; 




























i 


% 












; 1 














lf\;00 


t 




i " 


j 
















" 




/ 








Sv 




•' i 






fg'ao 
^4t atL. 






■ 






hi: 














- p 








I 


hL 


* 






ti 00 


I 




























. i- 
















^l'-! 


■ ' '■ ■ '' \ \ ' 












1 
1 






















"""t"" 








%e, 


«>I«'J 


* f\tj\a *\n II 


adjui 


i^tif^^i, 


aa 


HIS 


r*^ 


W« 


** 


V»Jf» 


^3! 


jex 


**«« 


M 4S 


ie*> 


W*$\JIHI 


sia 


Ids 


K^xa 


so 




















#r 


.:^:^v 




■■. 


"<\' 


ii;i:ia 


jfl 




1^ 


11! 


«'! 


i ■ i 


Tri 


\\. 


iir 


Ml 


i^-lii 


iii 


iH 


•f-H- 


''-- 





































































Water Filtration in Connection with 
Public Supplies. 



BY 

J. C. THRESH, 

D.Sc, M.D., D.P.H., 

Medical Officer of Health for the County of Essex ; 
Lecturer on Public Health, London Hospital. 



Water Filtration in Connection with Public 

Supplies. 

Historica,! Rema.rks. The process of filtration for the purification of 
water appears to be of very modern origin. The extensive remains of ancient 
aqueducts, reservoirs, tanks, etc., do not indicate that any system of filtration 
such as is now practised was adopted at the time of their construction, nor do 
we find in the ancient description of these waterworks any reference to filtration. 
Forbes has suggested that the " castella " found along the course of the Roman 
aqueducts were placeSvin which the water was filtered, but they are far too small 
to have served for any such purpose. They may, however, have been used as 
straining chambers to remove visible particulate matter suspended in the water. 
Probably at this early period this was all that was considered necessary or 
possible. The problem of converting the sewage polluted water of a river into 
a good and safe drinking water may not have presented itself to the engineers 
of Babylon, Nineveh, Rome, or other cities. In any case the first systematic 
attempt to remove something more than the visible suspended matter appears 
to have been made by one of the London Water Companies in 1829. 

Engflish System. The engineer of the Chelsea Company having 
found that the Thames water did not become clear by mere subsidence, 
experimented with sand filters and found that satisfactory clarification could 
be obtained by passing the Thames water through layers of sand at not too 
great a rate. It is probable, however, that sand filtration had been tried, and 
was actually in use, in a few places in Lancashire, as Simpson, the engineer 
above referred to, says that he was led to make his experiments after examining 
filters used by manufactories and some waterworks in the north of England. 
The Chelsea Company adopted the system and other Companies speedily 
followed their example. 

At this time there was no idea that the process was other than a mere fine 
straining, the sand particles keeping back the suspended matter. Methods of 
determining the organic matter in water were not known, and bacteria had not 
then been heard of. With the advance in knowledge of the chemistry of water 
and the elaboration of methods intended to estimate the organic matter in 
water, it was found that by filtration something more was accomplished than 
the mere removal of visible particles. The free ammonia decreased or 
entirely disappeared, and the organic matter dissolved in the water suffered 
marked diminution. The efficiency of the filtration was no longer measured 
merely by the physical effects produced, but by the chemical, and chemical 
standards were set up, which at the time served a useful purpose, but which 
now ought to be obsolete. How this improvement in the quality of the water 
was brought about was difficult to explain, and whilst engineers and chemists 
were discussing the possible explanations the bacteriologist appeared upon the 
scene and speedily found the true solution of the problem. Tlio chemical 



194 THRESH 

action was shown to be quite insignificant and almost entirely secondary to the 
action of the lowest forms of life. The problem proved to be primarily 
biological and not chemical, and the standard of purification now recognised 
is bacteriological, though stress is still laid upon the results of chemical 
examinations in so far as they indicate the extent to which the water has been 
purified by the biological changes which take place in it as it traverses the 
filters. When it is recognised that the chief water-borne diseases, Typhoid 
fever, Cholera, and Diarrhoea, are due to the action of bacteria, and that the 
small amount of organic matter found in solution in potable waters 
is quite harmless, it is obvious that bacterial purification is far more important 
than physical or chemical purification. 

In a large number of cases, however, water not seriously liable to pollution 
by excremental matter requires filtration in order to render it fit for domestic 
purposes; in these the efiiciency may be chiefly judged by the result of the 
physical and chemical examination, the bacteriological results being of 
secondary importance. 

The system of slow filtration through sand has proved so generally applicable 
throughout Great Britain, and the use of sand filters has become so common in 
this country that it is now usually spoken of as the " English " system. Over 
large areas on the continent and in the United States, where the river waters 
are almost invariably turbid from the presence of clay and alluvial matters, it 
has been found that the English system entails too great labour and expense 
to produce satisfactory results, the sand beds speedily clogging and requiring 
too frequent cleaning. 

Ainerica.n System. To obviate these difiiculties the Americans have 
largely adopted a system entailing the use of coagulants and mechanical filters, 
and this is so widely used in the States that it is spoken of as the "American " 
system. The coagulant, sulphate of alumina generally, when added to the 
water, causes a precipitate of aluminic hydrate which carries down with it 
nearly all the suspended matter. Subsequent rapid passage through a 
mechanical filter then suffices to produce a clear and palatable water. 

Continental System. Since the historical outbreak of Cholera at 
Hamburg, due to the use of polluted river water by the inhabitants, very serious 
attention has been directed by the French and Germans to the subject of water 
filtration ; the English sand process has been so improved and the bacterial 
efficiency so increased by the introduction of scientific methods of working that 
the advanced system is now generally referred to as the " Continental system." 
No one system can be said to he applicable in all cases, though one may be more 
generally applicable than another. That system which, when applied to any 
given water, will render it hygienically satisfactory, and which will do this 
with the greatest certainty, and at the smallest cost, is the best system for that 
particular water. Much depends upon the definition of a hygienically 
satisfactory water. I consider that no water derived from a public supply is 
hygienically satisfactory unless it is at all times delivered to the consumers 
in a bright and palatable condition, free from any obvious colour and containing 
no saline or organic matter of an objectionable character. 



WATER FILTEATION I95 

Sources of Drinking: Water. Before describing more fully tlie 
systems of filtration it will be well to consider briefly the various sources from 
which water is derived and the conditions which may render filtration necessary 
or desirable. 



Deep Weils usually yield water of such a character that it can be 
supplied direct to the consumer. Very occasionally it may be turbid from the 
presence of sand, clay, or chalk, rendering filtration necessary ; more frequently 
the water is ferruginous, containing in solution ferrous carbonate, which 
becomes deposited as an oxycarbonate when the water is exposed to air, 
rendering it turbid and unsightly. These waters are very common from' 
certain formations, and no engineer would select such a source if any other 
were available. When no other water is available the iron must be removed. 
This can be done by adopting any of the well-known devices for aerating the 
water and afterwards allowing it to clear by subsidence or removing the 
deposited oxycarbonate by means of a filter. 

Deep wells may yield waters of excessive hardness, and if a softening process 
is adopted subsequent filtration may be necessary. I know of no deep well water 
which requires filtration on account of its being polluted with sewage matter. 
When such a source yields a polluted water it is usually abandoned, this 
undoubtedly being the wisest course. 



Subsoii Water and Spring: Water. In the great majority of 

cases spring water is the natural overflow of the subsoil water, and when springs 
are utilized for public supplies it is not usual to attempt to derive from them 
more than the natural yield, in which case the water is generally of such a 
character that filtration is not necessary. But where an attempt is made to 
draw the water from the subsoil faster than the natural flow, turbidity may 
ensue, and filtration be required. Wells, sunk in superficial sands and gravels, 
especially if connected with adits, and from which water is pumped at such a 
rate as to greatly depress the water level during pumping, have a tendency to 
yield waters which either are slightly turbid or may contain the spores of 
low forms of vegetable life capable of developing in service and other reservoirs, 
and possibly in the water mains themselves. I am constantly investigating 
such cases. In one instance I found that sand filtration had been resorted io, 
the water being passed through the filter bed in the summer only. When the 
filter was again used in the following summer the water had a green tint, and 
when allowed to stand in jugs and caraifes the sides became covered with a 
green slime. I found that during the spring the sand of the filter bed had 
become permeated with a protococcus which, when the beds were again used, 
was washed through into the supply. Recently I saw another sand filter used 
for subsoil water, and the surface was covered with a dense mass of fresh water 
algse, which necessitated very frequent scraping of the beds. In another case 
the water contained fine clay in suspension, which the small sand filters used 
failed to remove. Larger filters and the use of polarite got over this difficulty. 



196 THRESH 

Surface Waters. Waters derived from mountain sides and from 
moorlands must be collected in reservoirs of considerable capacity, since 
sufficient must be collected during the rainy period to tide over the longest 
drought. If the moorland surface is uncultivated and tbe reservoir properly 
protected, such waters are of the highest degree of hygienic purity, and 
admirably adopted for the purpose of public supplies. But even in such cases 
low forms of vegetable life may appear in the reservoirs, and be discovered in 
the water supplied to the consumer. Occasionally these may be so numerous 
as to affect the colour, odour, or even the taste of the water. In summer they 
are always to be found if sought for. It is only necessary to tie a fine linen 
strainer over the mouth of the water tap and remove this in a few days to 
discover them. Usually the surface is covered with organisms, animal and 
vegetable, which, when seen by a total abstainer, are almost sufficient to make 
him decide to abstain from drinking water also. It is a moot point whether 
such waters should be filtered. It is usually with the engineer a question of 
expense. So far as we know these unpolluted waters containing diatoms, desmids, 
protococci, etc., etc., are quite without effect upon health, and the organisms 
so rarely become sufficiently numerous as to impair the physical properties of 
the water that it may be doubtful whether the expense of filtration is justifiable. 
As I prefer a water which is always bright and clear, and which contains none 
of these low forms of life, I should like to see such water filtered before being 
supplied to the consumers. Accidents will happen, and if the body of a man 
or animal happens to get into the reservoir I think the filter would at least keep 
back 98 per cent, of the organisms of putrefaction, and this, to me, would be a 
source of satisfaction. 

When any portion of the collecting area is under cultivation or is largely 
used for grazing cattle, the necessity for filtration is increased, even if no 
sewage of human origin gains access to the water. The manurial matter 
introduces bacteria and other organisms, and also phosphates and organic 
matter which tend to increase the luxuriance of the growth of all low forms of 
life. Waters of this character are very prone to become infected with organisms 
to such an extent as to impair their palatibility, and I certainly think that water 
from such sources should be submitted to some process of filtration. 

If upon the collecting area there are houses, the sewage from which, 
directly or indirectly, gains access to the supply, filtration is imperative, and 
the nature of that filtration we shall immediately proceed to consider. 

River Waters. The waters found in rivers consist of surface water 
and subsoil water. There may possibly be a few cases in which such waters 
may be impounded* and used without filtration, but such cases are very rare. 
Before any river in this country has attained such dimensions that water can 
be abstracted from it for the purpose of a public supply, it must have traversed 
inhabited regions and have been subjected to pollution. From time to time 
also it must be in a condition of flood and yield a turbid water, utterly unfit for 
domestic purposes. Large impounding reservoirs may obviate the necessity for 
taking water from the river whilst in flood, and may permit of all visible 
sedimentary matter being deposited, but this does not, in my opinion, obviate 
the necessity for filtration. 



WATER FILTliATION 197 

Objects of Filtration. This brief review of the sources from 
which public water supplies are derived has shown us that filtration may be 
necessary for one or more of the following purposes : — 

1. The removal of very fine suspended mineral matter. 

2. The removal of low forms of animal and vegetable life other than 
bacteria. 

3. The removal of bacteria. 

4. The removal of organic matter in solution. 

The latter object is generally required when water is derived from small lakes 
or reservoirs in which vegetable growth is abundant. The death and decay of 
this vegetable matter introduce an amount of organic matter into solution 
which may be harmless, but which is undesirable. Such cases are far more 
common in America, where swamp water has often to be utilised, than in 
England, but they are not unknown in this country, though probably they are 
very few in number. 

It will save time, perhaps, if the various methods of filtration already 
referred to are described in some detail and the effects they are capable of 
producing discussed. It will then be a simple matter to decide in any given 
instance the method of filtration which should be adopted to produce the 
desired result, viz., a water at all times bright and palatable and free from all 
deleterious or possibly deleterious bacteria. 

Eng:iish Sand Filters. The English sand filter consists of a layer 
of fine sand resting upon a layer of coarser sand, and this in its turn upon 
shingle or gravel contained in a tank upon the bottom of which pipes are laid 
to carry away the water. Larger gravel is laid over these under-drains so that 
the water may have a uniformly free exit from the beds above. Were one 
portion better drained than another, there would be a tendency for that portion 
of the filter to be overworked. 

Massachusetts Experiments. The fine sand is the most 
important element in the construction of the filter, as it is chiefly upon this 
that the efficiency depends. Mr. Hazen, of the Massachusetts State Board of 
Health, who has conducted long series of experiments upon sand filtration, 
says : " We find that both the quality of the effluent obtained by filtration and 
the cost of filtration depend upon the size of the sand grains. With a fine 
sand the sediment layer forms more quickly and the removal of bacteria is 
more complete, but, on the other hand, the filter clogs quicker and the dirty 
sand is more difficult to wash, so that the expense is increased." As we sliall 
see later, it is the layer which Hazen calls the sediment layer and which tlie 
Germans call the "sciilammdecke" which is the true bacterial filter, but there is 
no doubt that the sand itself, if not too coarse and not in too thin layers, has 
great purifying powers, and " in addition acts as a safeguard by positively 
preventing excessive rates of filtration on account of its frictional resistance " 
(Hazen). The Lawrence experiments showed that with very fine sands of an 



198 THEESH 

effective size varying from 09 to 14111111., and 4 to 5 feet deep, it was almost 
impossible to drive bacteria through, the water passing being practically 
sterile, but of course the rate of filtration was too slow for practical work. 
With fine sands, although the upper layer more quickly becomes clogged, the 
matters removed from the water including the bacteria remain very near the 
surface and are easily removed by scraping, whereas with a coarse sand the 
suspended matter penetrates further and thicker layers have to be removed for 
cleansing purposes. Hazen says, " It is obvious that the minimum expense for 
cleansing will be secured with a sand which just does not allow this deep 
penetration, and the coarsest samples in actual use, having effective sizes of 
about ■40mm., represent the practical limit to the coarseness of the sand, and 
that any increase above this size would be followed by increased expense for 
cleansing as well as by decreased efficiency." 

Effective Size of Sa-nd. By the effective size of a sand is meant 
" The size of a grain such that 10 per cent, by weight of the particles are 
smaller and 90 per cent, by weight larger than itself," whilst the "uniformity 
co-efficient " signifies the ratio of the size of the grain which has 60 per cent, 
finer than itself to the size which has 10 per cent, larger than itself." The sands 
used by the London companies have an average effective size of 'GTmm. and a 
uniformity co-efficient of 26. Sand of this character is apparently obtained 
to the following specification : — " The whole of the sand to be of such fineness 
that it will pass through a wire sieve having 400 meshes to the square inch, and 
80 per cent, of it through a sieve having 900 meshes to the square inch, and 
none of it through a sieve having 3,600 meshes to the square inch." The best 
sand in this country apparently comes from Leighton Buzzard, but sea sand 
from certain sources has a high reputation. 

Thickness of Sand Layer. The sand layer may be of any 
thickness from 12 to 48 inches. Usually when the bed is first made it has a 
thickness of 30 to 40 inches, and this is gradually reduced by scraping, about 
three-quarters of an inch being removed each time, until it is reduced to 12 
inches, when the bed is again made up. If after scraping the sand is 
immediately washed and returned to the bed the thickness is usually kept at 
about 24 inches. 

Head of Water. With a freshly constructed bed the rate of 
filtration increases with the head of water, or the difference in level between 
the water on the sand and in the outlet chamber, with the temperature of the 
water, the effective size of the sand, and decreases with the thickness of the layer 
of sand. 

Temperature, The warmer the water the more rapid the rate of 
filtration; other things being equal, where 100 gallons would pass at 50°r. only 
TO would pass at 32°F., whilst 145 would pass at 77°r. 

Filterings Film. After the filter has been in use a few days the 
rate of filtration is affected by another and much more important 



WATER FILTRATION I99 

factor, tlio schlammdecke, of German writers, which forms over the 
surface of the sand. As this increases in thickness the rate of filtration decreases 
until a point is reached when the filter must he scraped. A filter may have to 
be cleaned every few weeks or it may remain effective for months, the difference 
depending upon the character of the water and the amount of sedimentary 
matter which it contains. 

Packing: of Sand and Filling: of Filters. The packing of 
sand upon the filter must be carefully done or lines of lesser resistance may be 
left leading to defective filtration. In most beds air tubes are inserted to allow 
of the air being driven through them as the water descends when the bed is 
being filled from the top, but these tubes allow dust, small animals, etc., to 
gain access to the unfiltered water, and if not carried up sufficiently high may 
permit unfiltered water to pass through. As it is found that it is much better 
to fill the beds in the first instance, and after scraping, from below upwards, 
there is no necessity for such tubes, and the beds are better without them. 

Working: of the Filter. After filling, the water must be applied 
in such a way that the sand surface suffers no disturbance. The water which 
passes through after filling or cleansing will still contain a large proportion of 
the bacteria, but after two or three days' filtration at a slow rate a deposit forms 
upon the surface of the sand which retains the bacteria. This scJiIaiinndccl-c 
has such power of retaining these minute organisms that it has frequently been 
asserted that the bacteria found in the filtrate from a " ripe " filter are simply 
those which have grown in the gravel layer and under-drains. That the filtering 
film does not stop all bacteria has been many times demonstrated by adding to 
the unfiltered water organisms not found in the filtrate, such as the bacillus coli 
communis and the bacillus prodigiosus. These, of course in much diminished 
numbers, are soon found in the filtered water and must have passed through 
the filterinsr film. 



'h 



Rate of Filtration. In a " ripe " filter the number of bacteria 
which pass through depends chiefly upon the rate of filtration, hence to main- 
tain a uniform standard of efficiency the rate of filtration must admit of being 
fairly constant. This can only be done by regulating the head of water in the 
filter. In most works this is entrusted to the man in charge, but it is far better 
to afl&x some automatic regulating apparatus. 

Automatic Reg:ulation of Rate of Filtration. Each 
filter bed must have its own regulating apparatus. Without this apparatus a 
considerable depth of water has to be kept upon the filter, but with a regulating 
appliance the depth need not exceed 3 feet. The Massachusetts experimenis 
showed that there was a " marked decrease in efficiency with increasing rates, 
the number of bacteria passing increasing in general as the square of the rate " 
(Hazen). This does not appear to be always the case and Kirkwood asserts that 
every water has its own special rate of filtration which must be deterniined by 
experiment. With clear waters containing comparatively few bacteria a high 



200 THRESH 

rate of filtration may obtain, whereas with water containing larger numbers of 
micro-organisms a much slower rate must be adopted to secure efficient 
filtration. At Zurich, where the lake water contains only from 150 to 250 
bacteria per c.c. the number in the effluent was found to be practically constant 
whatever the rate of filtration, consequently when the lake water is filtered at 
the rate of 75 million gallons per acre daily the bacterial contents only average 
25 per c.c. This is an exceptionally high rate, 25 millions is about the average 
at the Berlin works and I'Q millions at Altona. The average rate for the 
London Water Companies is about the same as that at Altona, and it is found 
that at this rate a water bacterially very impure may be filtered and delivered 
into the reservoir with an average of less than 100 bacteria per c.c. 

Bacteriologfical Standard of Purity. This brings me to the 
question of the Bacteriological standard of efficiency. By a general consensus 
of opinion a properly filtered water should contain less than 100 organisms 
per c.c. capable of growing on nutrient jelly at 20°C. We may accept this 
standard provisionally, but more important than the fixing of this definite 
number is the decision as to the method of ascertaining the number. In the 
German regulations. Article 4 says : " To insure uniformity in the method of 
bacteriological analysis, the following process is recommended. The culture 
medium should be peptone jelly with extract of meat. The plates to be kept 
at about 20 °C. and the colonies counted with a magnifying glass at the end of 
48 hours." In England the colonies are usually counted at the end 
of the fourth day and the difference between the readings at the end of the 
second and fourth days is often considerable. There are advantages in the 
German method since it is often a serious inconvenience to wait until the end 
of the fourth day before deciding whether the results are satisfactory or not. 

Control of Filtration. To obtain a water of this bacterial purity 
at all times many points require attention. At most of the important water- 
works on the Continent biologists are employed constantly in making the 
Iiecessary observations. In this country we are satisfied with the examination 
of occasional samples, and I doubt whether there are any works in which the 
character of the water from each filter bed is daily determined. 

Such examinations should be made so that any bed not working properly 
can be cut out until the cause is ascertained and remedied. Unfortunately 
two days must at least expire before a defect is discovered, and meanwhile 
imperfectly filtered water is being distributed, but this at present appears to be 
unavoidable. To enable such examinations to be made each filter must be 
so constructed that a sample of the filtrate can be taken at any moment. This 
is done by providing each with a special well through which the filtered water 
must pass on its way to the filtered water reservoir. 

The outlet from this well should also be constructed so that the filtered 
water may be discharged either into the filtered water reservoir or over the 
surface of a second filter. In such case when a filter is found to be ineffective 
or is known not to ?^ passing a water of a sufficiently high standard of purity 
(as after scraping, or after renewal of the sand) the water need not be wasted 
but can be passed through a second and " ripe " filter and thus utilized. 



WATER FILTEATION 201 

Formation and Composition of the Fiiterine: Film. 

The filter will not be efficient or " ripe," as it is termed, imtilthe filter- 
ing film (" schlammdecke ") has formed. This is produced by the accumula- 
tion upon the surface and in the interstices of the upper layer of sand 
of bacteria and algae derived from the water. Each particle of sand acquires a 
glutinous covering to which apparently bacteria, etc., adhere, and, over the 
whole surface a fine net-work of algae and other filaments is formed, which 
forms the effective filtering layer. The entangled bacteria are not necessarily 
destroyed, on the contrary there is reason to belive that many forms grow 
luxuriantly, but the green algae undoubtedly destroy microbes continuously, 
and if the filters are open, as is the case in this country, light also will exercise 
its germicidal powers. 

"At Hamburg it has been shown that there is a certain regularity in the 
nature of the plants constituting the filtering film " (Hazen). In winter the 
film consists chiefly of a few varieties of diatoms. In the early spring green 
algae appear and continue through the summer. Blue algae are numerous in 
the hottest months, continue through the autumn, but disappear in winter. 
The diatoms alone are constantly present in large numbers, and possibly they 
are the most important as filtering agents. Dr. Kemna, who is the Biologist in 
charge of the Antwerp waterworks, confirms these results. He found upon 
examining the Antwerp film quantitatively that it contained : — 

Melosira varians 60 per cent. 

Fragilaria capucina 40 „ „ 

Spirogyra 10 „ „ 

that is 90 per cent, of the organisms were diatoms. 

I have not had occasion to make any such observations. My examinations of 
the " schlammdecke " have been conducted for the purpose of ascertaining the 
nature of the organisms removed from waters from different sources. 

* Fig. 1 shows the nature of the organisms found in the surface waters from 
Dartmoor. 

Fig. 2 shows the organisms found in the surface water from a Welsh moor- 
land. The pleurococcus, here so abundant, was shortly afterwards found by me 
to be penetrating deeply into a sand filter used for purifying water derived 
from a gravel subsoil. 

Fig. 3 shows the organisms contained in the film covering the surface of 
large sand filters used for the purification of the water supply to an important 
town. Some of this water was derived from the surface of cultivated ground. 
The felted mass consisted chiefly of an alga (Rivularia) and a fungus 
(Beggiatoa). 

Fig. 4. Altogether different is the nature of the film derived from a filter 
bed treating water from an upland surface free from contaminating matter. 
Here the diatoms and desmids are the dominant forms with an abundance of 
Spirogyra. 

^ These plates are reproduced by kind permission of the publishers, Messrs. J. «S.' A. Cliurchill, 
from the Author's work on " The Examination of Water and Water Supplies." 



202 



THRESH 




FIG. I. 

1. Vegetable debris — remains of cells, fragments of diatoms. 

2. Staurospermum viride. F.W.A.^ N.O. Zygophyceae. 

3. Lemanea torulosa. F.W.A. N.O. Lemaneaceae. 

4. Desmid. F.W.A. Species of Penium. 

5. Pleurococcus. F.W.A. N.O. Palmellacese. 

6. Dead form of 3. Cells plasmolysed. 

7. Ulothrix tenuis. F.W.A. N.O. Ulotrichese. 

8-12. Various forms of algal filaments. 9 is evidently a species of Ulothrix. 

13. Diatom. F.W.A. Sub-family Fragilariese. 

14. A rotifer or wheel animalcule. Animal of sub-kingdom Annuloida. 

15. Paramoecium (Nassula?). S.K. Protozoa. Class Infusoria. 

16. An animal spine. 

17. Hair of insect. 

18. Wing scale of insect. 

19. Fibre of wool. 

20. Crystal : probably calcium sulphate. 

21. Skeleton of a diatom. 

22. Not identified. Free swimming, but no visible cilia. 

All magnified 500 diameters. 

* F.W.A. =: Fresh Water Algae. 



10 was motile 



WAT Ell FILTllATION 



203 




FIG. II. 

1. A desmid (Arthrodesmus). 

2. Scale from wing of moth or butterfly. 

3. A desmid (Ankistrodesmus). 

4. Hair of insect. 

5. Minute protozoon. 

6. A ciliate infusorian. 

7. An amoeba. 

8. As fig. 3. 

9. 11. Diatoms. 

10. A small desmid. 

12. Pleurococcus. The members of this genus of the order Palmellacese are very frequently 
met with in waters. 

The description of the genus given by Cooke is : — " Cells gregarious, globose, or angular ; single 
or associated in small families. Cell-contents green, or oily red. Multiplication by division in 
alternate directions. Propagation by gonidia." 

This water formed a green deposit in any jug or vessel in which it was left, and in glass vessels 
exposed to light the pleurococcus grew luxuriantly. 



204 



THRESH 




FIG. III. 

SCRAPING FROM THE SURFACE OF A LARGE SAND FILTER USED FOR THE PURIFICATION OF THE 

SUPPLY TO A LARGE TOWN. 

The water was in part derived from springs and in part from surface of more or less cultivated 
land. The dried surface of the sand was covered with a thin semi-transparent film of a brownish 
green colour. 

1. Eivularia and allied forms, which with 

2. Beggiatoa formed the larger portion of the felted mass covering the sands. 

3. Bacilli and spirilla. 

4. Palmella embedded in jelly. 

5. A conferva. 

6. Probably a species of Zygnema. 

7. Pleurococcus. 

8. A desmid (Staurastrum). 

9. A desmid (Cosmarium). 

10. A diatom (Fragilarieae). 

11. A desmid. 

12. An algal filament. 

13. Probably pollen. 

14. Diatom (Pinnularia). 

15. Stylonychia. 

16-21. Dead and disorganised animal remains. (16 Scale from wing of moth. 18. A mite. 
19. Cyclops). 



21. Sheath of rotifer. 

22. Sand particles. 



1-15 magnified about 50 diameters. 
16-21 magnified about 500 diameters. 



WATER FILTRATION 



205 




FIG. IV. 

SCRAPINGS FROM THE SURFACE OF A FILTER BED USED IN CONNECTION WITH A LARGE STORAGE 
RESERVOIR COLLECTING UPLAND SURFACE WATER. 

This plate contains only a few of the organisms identified, but they were the most abundant 
Associated with these was much vegetable debris, not shown in the drawing. 

1. Bands of diatoms (Fragilarieae). Girdle view. 
la. Separate diatom. Valve view. 

2. Hydrodictyon. This organism is, by many, considered to be a desmid, in which the cells 
after division remain connected and form a network. It is a freshwater alga. Cooke regards it 
as a sub-family of the Palmellaceae. 

3. Actinosphaerium. A rhizopod. 

4. Filaments of a Spirogyra. 

5. Diatom (Synedra). Valve view. 
5a. Diatom (Synedra). Girdle view. 

6. Cyclotella, a discoid diatom. Valve view. 
6a. Cyclotella, a discoid diatom. Girdle view. 

7. Melosira. Discoidal diatoms forming filaments. Closely allied to No. 6. 

Nos. 2 and 3 magnified 100 diameters; No. 4, 200 diameters; Nos. 1, 5, & 7, 250 diameters 
No. 6, 500 diameters. 



206 THRESH 

Conditions Disturbing: the Filtering^ Film. Tlie filtering 
film may become affected and its continuity broken in various ways, bence tbe 
necessity for constant watclifulness. In summer tbe felted mass of algoid 
filaments may entangle sucb a quantity of liberated oxygen tbat ultimately 
tbe mass becomes detacbed and rises to tbe surface. Tbe exposed area tben 
allows imperfectly purified water to pass. 

Kemna mentions two insects as sometimes affecting sand filters. " One is 
a kind of gnat> chironomus, baving an aquatic larva of red colour (commonly 
called blood worms). Tbese worms burrow in tbe sand, cementing tbe grains 
into tbe form of dwelling tubes. . . . Wben tbe larvae are transformed into 
winged insects tbey come to tbe surface, and tbe tubes remaining empty and 
open, tbe filtering surface is riddled witb innumerable boles. The second is 
tbe bemipterous Corixa. Tliis is an exceedingly active insect wbicb rapidly 
breaks up tbe slime film, bringing it up in small particles to tbe surface." 
SticJdehacks and eels bave been known to gain access to tbe water over filters, 
and to affect tbe filtering layer. Tbat sucb sbould be tbe case indicates tbe 
desirability of tbe raw water passing tbrougb a fine strainer before being passed 
on to tbe beds. Frost, sudden cbanges in tbe rate of filtration, accidents, etc., 
may interfere witb tbe efficient action of a filter. 

Automatic Reg^ulation and Recording: of Rate of 

Filtration. Continuing our study of tbe condition necessary for efficient 
filtration, I would urge tbe necessity for some apparatus for regulating 
automatically tbe rate of filtration, or ratber I sbould say for regulating tbe 
liead of water so as to maintain a constant rate of filtration. Few works in 
tbis country bave any arrangement of tbis kind, and sucb as I bave seen do not 
appear to me to be efficient. Tliere are many forms in use in America and on 
tbe Continent. Langford's Automatic Filter Regulator (Fiff. 5) floats on tbe 
water in tbe well and carries a tbree-legged sypbon (B). Tbe middle leg acts 
as tbe discbarge pipe into tbe stand pipe (C), tbe outer legs dipping into tbe 
well water. Wben tbe arms of tbe sypbon are cbarged water passes up tbe 
outer limbs and down tbe centre limb to tbe filtered water reservoir. As tbe 
tank (A) rises and falls witb tbe water in tbe well, tbe discbarge is maintained 
constant. In tbe discbarging limb tliere is a valve wbicb can be regulated so 
as to permit of any required quantity being discharged per day. An index 
plate affixed sbows tbe rate of discbarge and therefore of filtration. 

Figs. 6 and 7 show the arrangement in use in Bremen. The vertical arm of the 
outlet pipe from tbe filtered water well has within it a second tube with a 
telescopic action. This inner tube is attached to a float which keeps its mouth 
at a definite distance below the water surface. As the flow of water down this 
tube varies only with tbe bead of water above it, if tbis is kept constant, tbe flow 
must be constant. When the clogging of the filter reduces the rate of filtration 
the level of the water in tbe filter well falls until a pressure bead is obtained 
capable of passing the requisite quantity of water. In this telescopic pattern, 
there is a risk of the inner tube sticking and working irregularly. The figure 
sbows how by a simple arrangement the rate of filtration and the pressure head 
can be recorded. 



WATER FILTRATION 



20^ 







Fi.'. 5. 




Fi-'. 6. 




Fit?. 7. 



208 



THRESH 



If there is a filtered water reservoir of sufficient capacity to oalance the 
varying demand during the 24 hours, the filter can, by an appliance of the 
above nature, be caused to work continuously at a definite rate. When the 
filter can no longer pass water at this rate the supply to the bed is cut off 
and the water drawn away until nearly the whole of the sand is drained. 
The surface layer is then removed. To set the filter in action again filtered 
water is allowed to flow into the well, and the filter bed filled again from 
below upwards. When the sand is covered to a sufficient depth the unfiltered 
water is again run upon it. There should be a further arrangement whereby 
the water which now passes through the filter can be passed on to a " ripe " 
filter until the primary filtrate has attained the requisite bacterial standard. 

The filtered water well should not be of so great a depth as to render it 
possible for such a head to be obtained as would rupture the filtering film. 

When the sand bed is scraped and the sand not washed and returned, 
naturally the filter decreases in depth. When the effective sand layer is 
reduced to 15 inches the bed should be re-made. If, on the other hand, the 
removed sand is immediately washed and returned, it is advisable to remove a 
second layer of sand and substitute the washed sand for this layer, the unwashed 
sand of the second layer then being spread upon the surface. By this means 
the filter more rapidly " ripens " or acquires the necessary " schlammdecke." 

In all cases the greatest care must be taken to maintain the upper portion 
of the bed in an efficient condition. If the filter becomes frozen over the 
surface will almost certainly be damaged, hence in countries where the winters 
are severe the filters are usually covered. Even in our climate there is little 
doubt that covered filters would be an advantage, but probably this would not 
be commensurate with the increased cost. 

Finally, the number of filters and the total filtering area should be such as 
to supply the maximum demand for water of satisfactory bacterial purity, 
allowing for filters out of use for cleansing and for any accidental breakdown 
in a filter. 



Data Relating: to Filterings Area and Rate of Filtra- 
tion in Several Water^VOrkS. The following statistics concerning 
filter beds are taken from a lengthy table given in Hazen's " The Filtration 
of Public Water Supplies " : — 



City 

Altona 

Berlin 

Bremen 

Hamburg 
Laurence (U.S.A.) 
Liverpool 

Liibeck 

Rotterdam 
Stockholm 
Zurich 



Avera<]fe daily Av'ge amount 
rate of filtration of water filter- 





Area of 


in million 


ed, 


in million 




filters 


gallons 


galls 


., between 


Year 


in acres 


per acre 


scrapings 


... 1898 


31 


1-72 




53 


... 1898 


.. 270 


1-34 




— 


... 1898 


3-2 


1-28 




41 


... 1898 


.. 430 


•76 




48 


... 1897 


2-5 


1-22 




27 


... 1896 


.. 10-9 


214 




54 


... 1898 


1-4 


3-4 




45 


... 1893 


6-3 


21 




— 


... 1897 


3-6 


21 




36 


... 1898 


1-66 . 


4-5 




58 



WATER FILTRATION 



209 



The following figures are calculated from, those given in the Report on 
Metropolitan Water Supply contained in the L.G.B. report for 1902-3 : — 





Capacity of 
subsidence 










Rate of daily 




Area of 




Thickness 




filtration 


Name of Company. 


reservoirs. 


filters 




of sand 




per acre in 




days supply 


in acres 


ft. 


in. ft. 


in. 


million galls. 


Chelsea 


. 16 


.. 8 . 


. 3 


3 to 4 


3 . 


. 1-47 


East London 


. 30 


.. 31 . 


. 1 


6 to 2 


6 . 


. 1-3 


Grand Junction ... . 


3-2 . 


.. 241 . 


. 2 


3 to 3 


. 


. -75 


Lambeth 


4-4 . 


. 12| . 


. 2 


6 to 3 


. 


. 2-33 


New River 


4-2 . 


.. 16^/e. 


. 1 


7 to 2 


3 . 


. 2-38 


Southwark & Yauxha 


11 13-4 . 


• 37-1 . 


. 2 


3 to 3 


. 


. -9 


West Middlesex... . 


. 180 . 


.. 23i . 


. 2 


6 to 2 


9 . 


. 10 



It will be observed that the rate of filtration in the first list varies from 
760,000 gallons per acre daily at Hamburg to 4,500,000 gallons at Zurich. 
This latter rate has, I believe, since been increased. It must not be forgotten, 
however, that in Hamburg a polluted river water containing thousands of 
bacteria per c.c. is being treated, whereas at Zurich lake water containing very 
few hundreds is being filtered. It is well to remember that with any given 
supply the most suitable rate of filtration can only be determined by 
experiment. In London the rate of infiltration varies from 750,000 gallons 
per acre by the Grand Junction Company to 2,380,000 gallons per acre by 
the New River Company, but here again the bulk of the New River Company's 
unfiltered water is much less impure bacterially than that of the Grand 
Junction Company. 

The first Table also shows that with rapid filtration cleansing is much more 
frequent than when the filtration is slower. The Ziirich filters pass but little 
more water between successive cleansing periods than the filters at Altona and 
Hamburg. Probably, however, the lake water, though containing fewer bacteria 
than the Elbe water, contains more spores of algae, and these by their growth 
on the filter bed tend to impede the filtering process. 

The sand filtration process as generally conducted in England is done by 
rule of thumb. There are few automatic regulators or rate or pressure 
recorders, there are few places in which there are arrangements for collecting 
samples of water from each filter, or for passing the water from one filter over 
the sand of a second. Samples are taken for bacteriological examination only 
at comparatively long intervals, there is no resident biologist and no attempt to 
work the process on strict scientific principles. 

In .what I have called the Continental system it is not unusual to find a 
skilled biologist in charge, nothing is done by rule of thumb, every filter is 
carefully watched and the filtrate therefrom daily examined, and the results 
together with the rate of filtration, filter head, etc., are daily recorded. 

Control of Filtration in Bremen. At Bremen (as shown on 
Figs. 6 and 7), the several filters are connected by syphons, one leg of which is in the 
regulating well for the efiluent water of one filter, while the other leg is in the 
raw water compartment of the adjoining filter. The syphons are inserted in such 



210 THRESH 

a manner tliat the filtrate of one filter may be led upon one or other of tlie 
neighbouring filters, so as to have a choice in case one of them is out of service 
or is not yet ripe. 

After a filter has been scraped and when the river water is turbid, as also 
during periods of frost, double filtration is resorted to. The following are a 
few of the results recorded in Tables given by Herr Goetze, Chief Engineer in 
charge of the Waterworks in Bremen, in " Water," January, 1904. 



Final 

filters. 

During frost 650 ... 920 ... 58 ... 23 

' ... 8 

25 

Average for a month... 6150 ... 232 ... 117 ... 35 

In the Table from which this is taken the bacteria in the raw water varied from 
650 to 18,200 per c.c, in filtrate from No. 5 from 28 to 1440, in filtrate from 
No. 4 from 16 to 330, whereas in the final filtrate the variation was only from 
8 to 67. 

Effect of scraping filter. Scraped March 22nd. 



Bacteria 


per cc. 


Raw water. 


Primary filters. 
No. 5. No. 4. 


650 


920 ... 58 


950 


1000 ... 144 


775 


280 ... 90 


6150 


232 ... 117 







Raw water. 


Primary filter 
(scraped). 


Secondary 
filter. 


March 23 


18,200 


1,720 


50 


„ 24 


12,200 


1,450 


71 




, 25 


14,600 


1,120 


90 




,26 


13,400 


790 


64 




, 27 


9,800 


480 


63 




, 28 


4,600 


210 


70 




, 29 


5,300 


130 


44 




, 30 


3,400 


92 


67 




„ 31 


4,500 


82 


51 



This table shows well the effect of the scraping and the time required for 
the scraped filter to become effective. It also shows that the effect of the second 
filter is little influenced by the number of bacteria in the primary effluent. 

Similar tables are given showing the effect of double filtration at a time 
of high and turbid water. For example, on one occasion the raw water 
contained nearly 40,000 bacteria per c.c, the primary effluent contained 525, 
and the secondary effluent only 15. 

Puech's System of Filtration. The advantages of a preliminary 
filtration before the final sand filtration are apparently sufficiently great to 
warrant its adoption in certain cases, if not in all. It removes the coarser 
sedimentary matter and some of the bacteria, and enables the final sand filters 
to pass a much larger volume of water between the periods of cleansing. 

The system designed by Mr. Armand Puech, and known as Puech's system, 
was first tried at Mazarnet, in France, afterwards at Nantes and other towns, 



WATER FILTRATION 



211 



then m Pans, and recently by tlie East London Water Company, at their works 
at Hanworth. At Hanworth there are no storage subsidence reservoirs, and it 
was found very difficult to filter the requisite quantity of water per day when 
the river water was turbid. The filter beds, six in number, are about five acres 
in extent, and two of the beds were often out of use at one time for cleansing 
purposes. By the introduction of Puech's preliminary filters this difficulty has 
been successfully overcome, and a satisfactory water can apparently be produced 
at all times. 



5t direct 
n River. 




Fisr. 8. 



In the Puech filter (Fig. 8) there is a false bottom of perforated steel, 
upon which rests a layer of washed gravel. In the first filter this gravel is 
coarse, in the second finer, and in the third the gravel is about the size of 
peas. A fourth and fifth filter can be provided, if necessary, covered with 
still finer material. At Hanworth three filters have been found sufficient for 
the preliminary filtration. The three Puech filters have one-tenth the area 
of the sand filters. The raw water from the river passes into the first filter 
and through the course gravel downwards into the cavity below the steel plate. 
Thence it passes to the surface of the second filter, with little loss of head, 
traverses this, again passes forward to the third filter, from which it is 
discharged upon the sand filter. When the river water is turbid the effect 
of the Puech filters is most marked, and bacteriologically there is a great 
improvement. The greater portion of the organic matter in suspension is 
retained by the Puech filters, and the sand filters can do their work very 
much better, besides leaving a much greater area always in use. The gravel 
filters can be cleaned easily and quickly by mean of a hose pipe, one filter 
being cleaned while the other two are working. The following tables give 
details of various installations : — - 



Water supply. 



Paris 

„ Suburban 
East London 
Nantes 
Annonay 
Bombaste 



Source 
of water. 

R. Seine 

R. Thames 
R. Loire 
Brook water 
R. Meurthe 



Proportionate 
area of Puech 
filters to sand 
filters. 



lu 






Daily 
averaj^e 
output, 
million 
gallons. 



n 



101 



H 



•165 



Quantity filtered 
between scra])in^s 
in million {gallons. 

. 100 to 125 

. 300 to 400 

. 100 to 125 

. 125 to 105 

. 165 to 190 

. 415 to 500 



212 



THRESH 



Mr. Biyan, the engineer to the East London Company, has kindly given 
me the following table showing the bacteria in the river water before and after 
it has passed through the Puech and sand filters from the date of installation to 
February last. The results appear to be eminently satisfactory : — 







No. of bacteria in 1 c.c. of 






No. of bacteria in 1 c.c. of 






Unfiltered 


Filtered 






Unfiltered 


Filtered 






water. 


water. 






water. 


water. 


1902 








1903 








Sept. 


6 


... 1667 . 


.. 73 . 


June 


6 . 


1824 . 


. 45 


» 


13 


.. 2086 . 


. 77 . 


JJ 


13 . 


.. 6960 . 


. 119 


5J 


20 


.. 1300 . 


. 40 . 


J) 


20 . 


.. 26686 . 


.. 245 


>> 


27 


.. 5246 . 


. 29 . 


JJ 


27 . 


.. 5334 . 


. 46 


Oct. 


4 


.. 1500 . 


. 27 . 


July 


4 . 


. 1706 . 


. 12 


)) 


11 


.. 25060 . 


5 . 


JJ 


18 . 


1413 . 


.. 16 


jj 


18 


.. 1553 . 


. 14 


JJ 


25 . 


.. 2360 . 


. 13 


Nov. 


1 


.. 5446 . 


5 . 


Aug. 


1 . 


. 2466 . 


.. 57 


JJ 


8 


.. 1266 . 


. 15 . 


JJ 


8 . 


. 1376 . 


90 


JJ 


15 


1303 . 


. 62 . 


JJ 


15 . 


. 26207 . 


60 


JJ 


22 


.. 2300 . 


11 


JJ 


22 . 


. . 13227 


4 


JJ 


29 


.. 4413 . 


. 62 . 


JJ 


29 . 


. 4293 . 


7 


Dec. 


6 . 


.. 7566 . 


. 32 . 


Sept. 


5 . 


1906 . 


. 15 


JJ 


13 


.. 6546 . 


. 17 . 


JJ 


12 . 


.. 10136 . 


5 


JJ 


20 


.. 4500 . 


. 106 . 


J) 


19 . 


.. 2423 . 


. 40 


JJ 


27 


.. 7330 . 


. 14 . 


JJ 


26 . 


.. 1680 . 


.. 24 


1903 
















Jan. 


3 


.. 2866 . 


4 . 


Oct. 


3 . 


.. 23646 . 


.. 115 


JJ 


10 


... 12280 . 


. 41 . 


JJ 


10 . 


.. 10546 . 


.. 28 


JJ 


17 


... 5573 . 


.. 46 . 


JJ 


17 . 


.. 29580 . 


.. 85 


JJ 


24 


... 31180 . 


.. 77 . 


JJ 


24 . 


.. 9953 . 


.. 29 


JJ 


31 


.. 8200 . 


17 . 


JJ 


31 . 


.. 12953 . 


. 76 


Feb. 


7 


. . 7620 . 


10 . 


Nov. 


7 . 


. 8026 . 


. 12 


JJ 


14 


.. 11656 . 


6 . 


JJ 


14 . 


. 11400 . 


. 22 


JJ 


21 


. . 20220 . 


7 .. 


JJ 


21 . 


. 28093 .. 


9 


JJ 


28 


.. 23100 . 


. 52 . 


JJ 


28 . 


. 12573 . 


10 


March 7 


.. 17026 . 


. 68 . 


Dec. 


5 .. 


. 72404 .. 


. 67 


JJ 


14 


.. 7006 . 


. 56 . 


JJ 


12 . 


. 41936 . 


. 54 


JJ 


21 


.. 3753 . 


. 13 .. 


JJ 


19 .. 


. 17645 .. 


. 22 


JJ 


28 


.. 2093 . 


11 .. 


1904 


26 . 


. 4590 . 


9 


April 


4 


.. 12773 . 


16 


Jan. 


2 . 


. 2966 . 


. 32 


JJ 


11 


.. 5080 . 


4 . 


JJ 


9 . 


. 9613 . 


. 106 


JJ 


18 


.. 1008 . 


. 28 . 


JJ 


16 . 


. 9253 .. 


. 29 


JJ 


25 


.. 1920 . 


8 . 


JJ 


23 . 


. 6420 . 


. 22 


May 


2 . 


.. 3713 .. 


8 . 


JJ 


30 . 


. 13260 . 


. 16 


JJ 


9 


.. 7373 . 


. 14 . 


. Feb. 


6 . 


. 57187 . 


. 74 


J' 


16 


.. 4553 . 


. 22 . 


JJ 


13 . 


. 6120 . 


. 25 


JJ 


23 


.. 4245 . 


. 11 


JJ 


20 . 


. 15033 . 


. 17 


JJ 


30 


... 2246 . 


.. 20 . 


JJ 


24 . 


. 2716 . 


. 12 



WATER FILTRATION 



213 



The averages for tlie 18 months give 

In the river water 10,121 bacteria per c.c. 

In the filtered water 36 

Percentage bacteria removed 99' 65 „ 

On five occasions only have the bacteria exceeded 100 per c.c, and on one 
occasion only has this figure been more than slightly exceeded. 
Dividing the above period into two of equal length, we find : — 

Average No. of bacteria in Percentage of 
River Mater. Filtered water, bacteria removed. 

Sept., 1902, to May, 1903, incl. ... 7,225 ... 30 ... 9959 
June, 1903, to Feb., 1904, inch ... 13,550 ... 44 ... 99-68 

The first period covers nine months, when the river water rarely contained 
over 10,000 bacteria per c.c, whilst the second covers a period during which 
the river was very often in flood, and the water contained a very excessive 
number of bacteria. Although a few more bacteria were contained on an 
average in the filtered water during the second period than in the first, the 
percentage purification was higher. 

From a previous table we have seen that filters require scraping when, on 
an average, 40 to 50 million gallons of water have passed through per acre ; 
whereas the above table shows that with the addition of Puech's filters, 100 
to 500 millions of gallons may be passed. The advantages therefore of a 
preliminary rough filtration are undoubted. 

Mechanical Filters. Time will not permit of my dwelling upon 
the subject of sand filtration at greater length, as the " mechanical filter " still 
remains to be considered. I may say at once that I have never examined one 
of these mechanical filters, treating a polluted water, which gave satisfactory 
results, but it does not follow that there are not many cases, even m this 
country, where they could be used with advantage. The number of these 
filters is legion, but they resemble each other in these respects that the filtering 
material is contained in a tank or cylinder, usually of iron, that the water 
is passed far more rapidly through the material than through an ordinary 
sand filter, and that at short intervals the direction of the current of the water 
is reversed so as to wash out of the filtering material the matter which it has 
removed. "Where very turbid waters have to be treated it is usual to add a 
little aluminic sulphate as a coagulant, allow the alumina to deposit in a 
subsidence tank and pass the supernatant water through the filter. In this 
country the use of coagulants is probably never necessary, we need not 
therefore give it further consideration. 




Fig. 9. 
Type of Mechanical Filter. 



214 



THRESH 



Jewell Filter. One of the best types of mechanical filter is that 

made by the Jewell Company, of New York, who have recently fixed some at 
the Wolverhampton and York Waterworks, but merely for effecting a 
preliminary clarification before submitting the water to sand filtration. 
The Jewell filter (Fig. 10) consists of a tank containing sand of great uniformity 
resting upon a suitable screen carrying a series of radiating pipes with nozzles 
for collecting the water. The thickness of the sand is four feet. The rate 
of filtration may be varied from 1,600 to 3,200 gallons per square foot per diem, 
equal to TO to 140 million gallons per acre. To maintain this rate a head 
of from 6 to 14 feet of water is required, but it does not follow that there 
must be this head above the sand surface. A relatively small head upon the 
sand with a larger negative head below is found to give the best results. 
The upper three inches of the sand is found to strain out most of the 
suspended matter, and when this upper surface becomes too clogged for filtration 
to be economically continued, the sand bed is washed by reversing the fiow 
of water. A current, preferably of filtered water, is forced upwards with 
considerable velocity through the sand, washing into the drain provided for the 
purpose the accumulated filth. From time to time the sand can be further 
cleansed by putting into the water a little caustic soda and blowing in steam. 




Even with these mechanical filters it is found necessary, for producing 
uniform results, to maintain a uniform rate of filtration, by increasing the 
pressure gradually as the porosity of the sand decreases. The Jewell filter has 
an automatic controller and gauges showing the regularity of the increase 
of the filtering head. Each filter can be controlled independently. It is 
claimed that this system of filtration possesses the following advantages over 
the sand filters : — 

1. They occupy a very small area of ground, 

2. They are not affected by weather. 

3. Objectionable growths cannot take place in the filter, and therefore there 
is less risk of waters acquiring odour or taste. 

4. They are easily and rapidly cleaned without risk of contamination by 
workmen. 



WATER FILTRATION 215 

5. There is absolute control over each filter. 

6. The sand can be easily sterilized if required. 

7. "Water can be sent directly from the filter to the consumer with the 
least possible delay and exposure. 

8. They can easily be adapted for removing lead or for filtering water 
after softening. 

9. Small subsidence reservoirs only required, if at all. 

10. Small cost of construction and maintenance. 

The Jewell filters installed at York to filter the Ouse water were guaranteed 
to give, when using the coagulant, a filtrate free from colour and visible 
suspended matter (not more than 10 parts per million by weight), and if the 
unfiltered water contained 1,000 or more bacteria per c.c. to remove at least 
90 per cent, of these. If the unfiltered water contained less than 1,000 bacteria 
per c.c, the filtered water was not to contain more than 100. Further, the 
filtered water should not contain any trace of the coagulant, nor be increased 
in hardness. Official tests were made before accepting the filters, with the 
following results : — 

Bacteria per c.c. Rate of filtration Grains of alumic 

Unfiltered water. Filtered water. per sq. ft. sulphate per gall. 

gallons. 

Aug. 27 440 ... 20 ... 2,070 ... 1 

Sept. 1 372 ... 7 ... 3,080 ... '75 

Sept. 3 190 ... 23 ... 2,780 ... -75 

Professor Bitter, reporting upon the suitability of these filters for the Nile 
water to supply Cairo, states that he obtained results better than those 
obtainable from the best working English sand filter beds. Using the 
B. prodigiosus, he found that after the filter had been in use 2| hours, 
although the unfiltered water contained 100,000 of the bacilli per c.c, the 
filtrate only contained 4. It is doubtful, however, whether his other results, 
if published, would have led us to the same conclusion, since he remarks : 
" The first experiments made by me with Jewell filter very soon showed that 
no definite conclusions as to the value of the system could be arrived at on 
the mere basis of the number of bacteria contained in the filtered water." 

Pittsburgh Experiments. Many extended series of experiments 
have been made in America with these mechanical filters. Of these the 
Pittsburg experiments are probably the most interesting. The water to be 
filtered is derived from the Rivers Alleghaney and Monogahela. It is always 
turbid, the turbidity usually varying from "1 to "5, but occasionally, after 
heavy rains, becoming 1"0 or more. The results obtained were as under: — 

Rate of 
Filtration Bacteria per c.c. 

Effective size Uniformity Coagulant in mill. gall. River Filtered 
Kind of Filter. of sand. co-efficient. used. per acre, per -water. water. 

diem. 
English Sand Filter, with 

preliminary sedimentation "30 m.m. ... 2*0 ... None ... 2 to 5 ... 16,340 ... 129 

Ditto without 
preliminary sedimentation -63 m.m. ... 2-0 ... None ... 2 to 5 ... 16,340 ... 177 
Warren Meclianical Filter... -63 m.m. ... M ... r36 ... 115 ... 11,427 ... 262 
JewellFilter •46m.m. ... 1-4 ... 10 ... 104 ... 11,427 ... 459 



21G 



THllESH 



After washing a filter the water was found to be of an inferior quality for 
about 20 minutes. The English sand filters clogged very rapidly, especially 
the one using unsettled water, and the bacterial efficiency was not so marked 
as when settled water was used, notwithstanding that the settling removed few 
bacteria. 

Mr. Hazen, who reported on the results of these experiments concludes : — 
" With an amount of sulphate of alumina which makes the cost of the two 
processes substantially equal, the mechanical filters yield effluents containing 
from two or three tim.es as many bacteria as the sand filters, and are consequently 
2 to 3 times as likely to transmit disease germs, while, on the other hand, the 
effluents are clearer and more nearly colourless. If the raw water were very 
much more muddy than it is and contained less sewage, the advantage would 
be on the side of the mechanical filters. If, on the other hand, the water was 
less turbid and contained more sewage bacteria the advantage would be 
decidedly with the sand filters." I am afraid this opinion would not help the 
Pittsburg people much in deciding which system to adopt. 



York Observations. At York, where the water is first "passed 
through mechanical filters and then through sand filters, a water of exceptional 
bacterial purity is obtained, as is shown by the following results published by 
Mr. Humphreys, the Engineer. 

Number of bacteria per c.c. in 
Unfiltered water. Filtered water. 

1902 



1903 



July 

August 

September 

October 


198 

410 
211 
289 


5 

2 
1 


November 


742 


1 


December 


913 


2 


January 

February 

March 


698 
245 
560 


2 
4 
3 


April 

May 

June 


2,270 (heavy floods) 

295 

203 


15 
1 
4 



Ca,ndy Filter. There is one other system of mechanical filtration 
which is worthy of mention, since it originated in England, and does not 
entirely depend upon sand for its efficiency and is in use in several important 
towns. Possibly also the fact that the two towns in which it has been longest 
in use have the lowest death-rates from typhoid fever may also justify me in 
selecting it for special mention. I refer to the Candy filter, in which 
polarite (a magnetic oxide of iron) and sand form the filtering medium. The 
closed tank is divided into chambers containing polarite and sand. The unfiltered 
water enters under slight pressure, and in doing so is sprayed so as to become 
charged with compressed air. Each compartment of the cylinder is a separate 
filter. The water charged with dissolved oxygen from the air traverses these 



WATER FILTEATION 217 

filters, and not only are bacteria removed, but a considerable portion of the 
dissolved organic matter is oxidised. By reversing the direction of the current 
of water the suspended matter which has been removed by the filter is carried 
away. Polarite is also used in the construction of slow filters, layers of 
polarite being laid under the sand. At Hastings and Leighton Buzzard polarite 
filters treat ferruginous waters very successfully. At Reading the very impure 
water of the River Kennett is converted into a water of great organic purity, 
and containing very few bacteria. The South-West Suburban Water Company 
have also constructed polarite filters, and have improved the quality of their 
water. 

Water of River Kennett, before and after treatment through Polarite. 

In parts per 100,000. 

Before. After. 

Free Ammonia "0001 "0000 

Organic Ammonia '0214 '0043 

Oxygen absorbed "391 '124 

Thames water after polarite filtration : — 

Waterworks, Egham. 

Free Ammonia "0000 

Organic Ammonia "0020 

Bacteria per c.c 40 

Selection of Method of Filtration. Having thus discussed, 
though briefly, the various methods of filtration, we are in a position to consider 
the circumstances under which each is specially applicable. First, however, 
it must be understood that the mechanical system is cheaper than the English 
sand system, both in first cost and in upkeep. Other things being equal, 
therefore, this alone would decide in favour of the mechanical system. 

In the first group of cases in wdiich filtration is necessary merely for the 
removal of mineral matter in suspension some form of mechanical filtration 
would obviously suffice and be cheaper than ordinary sand filtration. The 
mechanical filter would possess all the advantages enumerated when we were 
considering such filters. In the second group of cases where the object is the 
removal of low forms of vegetable life other than bacteria I am inclined to 
think that the mechanical filter has other advantages besides the cost. There 
is less probability of any organism predominating to such an extent as to cause 
the water to acquire an odour or taste, since the filtration takes place in a dark 
enclosed chamber. With excessive growth of minute vegetable organisms the 
ordinary filter bed would very speedily clog, giving much extra trouble, 
whereas in the mechanical filter the extra trouble involved in cleaning more 
frequently is negligible. This applies to many water supplies from uncultivated 
moorland surfaces, but not to such supplies if any considerable proportion of 
the collecting area consists of cultivated ground. 

These latter would be included in our third group, in which the object of 
the filtration is chiefly the removal of bacteria of objectionable origin. Cases 
are conceivable in which the amount of pollution is relatively so small that 



218 THEESH 

mechanical filtration might suffice to ensure safety, but where the pollution is 
so gross as is the case in most of our rivers mechanical filtration alone could 
not be trusted. At present slow sand filtration should be insisted upon, and all 
the precautions now taken at so many places on the Continent adopted. Further 
experiments with dual filtration, as in Puech's system at the Hanworth works, 
may show that such uniformly satisfactory results can be obtained, that all the 
precautions now considered necessary may not be imperative. 

The final group of cases, in which the object of filtration is the removal of 
organic matter in solution, necessitate special treatment. At present the only 
way of removing such matter in which I have any confidence is filtration 
through a polarite medium. Probably in most such cases there will be also 
objectionable matters present derived from sewage or manure, rendering 
efficient bacterial treatment also necessary. Slow filtration through sand and 
polarite may suffice in such cases, but it would be safer to submit the water first 
to the action of polarite in a mechanical filter and then to pass it through a 
sand filter. The former would remove much of the organic matter and most 
of the bacteria, and the final sand filtration would ensure a filtrate of a high 
degree of bacterial purity. 

No hard and fast lines can be laid down. Every supply necessitates a 
special study, and in many cases experiments would have to be conducted 
before an opinion could be given as to the best system or combination of 
systems to be adopted. Mechanical filters have been greatly improved during 
recent years, but where dangerous bacteria may gain access to a water we 
are not in a position yet to say that such appliances can be trusted to remove 
them, whilst in these, the most important cases, we know that sand filtration 
can be so conducted as to be an absolute safeguard. 

The literature of the subject is very voluminous, but much of it is of little 
importance. Results obtained are so often buried in masses of tables and in 
successions of reports that it is exceedingly difficult to draw any useful 
conclusions from them. The time at my disposal has not permitted me to deal 
very fully with the subject, but I believe that I have discussed all the points 
of major importance, and probably I may atone for my shortcomings by adding 
to my lecture, a list of some of the works and reports which may with 
advantage be consulted by those who wish to give the subject further study. 

E-EFERENCES. 

" The Filtration of Public "Water Supplies." Ilazen. London : Chapman 

and Hall, Limited. 
" The Eeports of the Massachusetts State Board of Health." 
" The Engineering Record." Especially Vol. 39. 
" Water." Especially Vols. 4, 5, and 6. 

" Eeport on the Filtration of Nile Water." Prof. Bitter, Cairo. 
" Filtration Experiments in Alexandra." Dr. Gotschlich. 
" Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers." 1900. 
" Veroffentlichungen des Kaiserlichen Gesundheitsamtes," 23. Berlin ; 

Jahrgang. No. 7. 
" The Microscopy of Drinking Water." Whipple. London: Chapman & Hall, Ltd. 
"The Examination of Water and Water Supplies." Thresh. London: J. & A. 

Churchill. 
" Reports of the Comite Consultatif d' Hygiene Publique de France." 



Atmospheric Carbonic Acid, its 
Estimation and Variation. 



BY 



JOHN ROBERTSON, 

M.D., B.Sc, 

Medical Officer of Health for Birmingham, 



Atmospheric Carbonic Acid, its Estimation and 

Variation. 



Historical Remarks : Joseph Black. It is just 150 years since 
Professor Joseph Black first demonstrated the presence of Carbonic Acid in the 
air. Black was recognised as one of the most expert investigators of his day, 
and his discovery of carbonic acid or " fixed air " as he called it was one of his 
several most important achievements. His investigations on the Carbonic 
Acid in air and on the composition of carbonate of lime were done when he 
was a young man at Glasgow University. On his promotion to be Professor 
of Chemistry at Edinburgh University Black appears to have given up original 
research work, and to have devoted all his energies to teaching an art in which 
he became as accomplished and as successful as he was in investigation work. 

Black and those who followed him appear to have enormously over- 
estimated the amount of Carbonic Acid in the air. From 50 to 1,000 volumes 
of Carbonic Acid per 10,000 volumes of air were supposed to be present by the 
various investigators who worked at the subject during the 18th century. 

John Dalton. It was not till the inventive genius of John Dalton of 
Manchester was brought to bear on the subject that approximately accurate 
results as to the amount present were obtained. Dalton was engaged in 
investigating the subject in 1802, and he soon demonstrated that instead of 
the atmosphere containing one per cent, of Carbonic Acid it contained less 
than one-tenth of a per cent, by weight, i.e., 68 volumes per 10,000 volumes. 

Dalton collected the air in a bottle of a capacity of 471 cub, in. — far too 
small as we now know. Lime water or Baryta water was added in known amount 
and of known strength, and after absorption of CO, the solution was titrated 
against dilute sulphuric acid. He collected the air sample by first filling the 
bottle with water and then emptying out the water in the situation where he 
wanted to collect his air sample. This was a bad plan, and the error it gave 
rise to was demonstrated by Dalton's distinguished pupil, Hadfield, in 1828. 

Hadfield. Hadfield improved the method of collection by using a dry 
bottle and filling it with air by means of a bellows. 

Dalton's process with the modifications suggested by Hadfield is as good 
and even better than many of the processes described in our text-books to-day. 
I will ask you shortly to consider whether we in this country are not entitled 
to speak of Dalton's method rather than Pettenkofer's. 



222 ROBERTSON 

De Saussure. Between 1810 and 1830 De Saussiire, of Geneva, published 
the results of his work with a gravimetric method. He precipitated the 
Carbonic Acid in about 34 litres of air and weighed the resulting barium 
carbonate. By this method he showed that the mean amount of CO2 in air 
was about 403 volumes per 10,000 volumes of air. 

Pett'enkofer. The next important and far-reaching researches in 

atmospheric carbonic acid were made by Pettenkofer by a method almost 
identical with that of John Dalton and his pupils — a dry bottle, the air forced 
in by means of a bellows, Lime or Baryta water used as an absorbent and " any 
non-volatile dilute acid for titration." Angus Smith says that the use of the 
oxalic acid for titration is the essential of the Pettenkofer process, but obviously 
that is wrong for" Pettenkofer himself says " any non-volatile acid " will do. 

In view of all the circumstances I now ask you whether we, in this country, 
should not associate Dalton's name with the bottle method of determining COg ? 

AngfUS Smith. You have in Manchester another very interesting link in 
the investigation of Atmosphere Carbonic Acid, for it was here that Angus 
vSmith did much of his work on the subject of the variation of Carbonic Acid 
in the air. Those who may not have read his "Air and Rain " will find that it 
contains much valuable information in regard to Carbonic Acid. 

Having now indicated very briefly the scope of the older work on Atmos- 
pheric Carbonic Acid, I will next describe some of the more recent methods 
and afterwards the results. 

Methods in Use at the Present Time. The methods may for 
the sake of convenience be divided into (a) those devised to secure the greatest 
possible accuracy irrespective of the amount of trouble involved, and (6) those 
designed for practicable purposes. 

Those of us who are engaged in practical public health work, and who 
may be required to make Carbonic Acid determinations in examining as to the 
efficiency of methods of ventilation should have a knowledge of the degree of 
accuracy of the process we employ. Most of our text-books are vague and 
insufficient, and it will probably be found that the best results will be obtained 
by studying carefully, first, those methods which have the merit of scientific 
accuracy and then seeing how our available working methods differ in accuracy. 
In this way many errors will be avoided and confidence in our results obtained. 

Haldane and Pembrey's iViethod. Of the accurate methods 

probably one of the best is that described by Dr. J. S. Haldane, F.R.S., and 
Dr. M. S. Pembrey in the " Philosophical Magazine," Vol. xxix., p. 306. In 
this method one or more absorption tubes are used filled with carefully prepared 
soda lime. In order to prevent the absorption of moisture from the air by the 
soda lime the air is passed through absorption tubes filled with pumice soaked 
in sulphuric acid. These observers aspirated 90 litres of air at the rate of one 
litre per minute. The soda lime tubes were weighed on a chemical balance 
before and after the absorption, and the difference taken as the weight of CO2 
in the air. As an additional precaution control absorption tubes should be 



ATMOSPHERIC CARBONIC ACID 223 

submitted to the same temperature and other conditions without being used 
for CO2 absorption. 

In comparing the accuracy of this method with the bottle method Haldane 
and Pembrey show that for air which is pure or relatively pure, the excess of 
CO2 as indicated by the latter varies from 7 to 18 per cent" 

There are obvious disadvantages in the use of the method for practical 
purposes. The amount of air 30 to 90 litres is inconveniently large, and the 
time required for the absorption of the Carbonic Acid too long foj- every-day 
work. 

I recommend the method as one eminently suitable for checking the 
accuracy of any of the ordinary working tests. Since it is possible that any of 
us may now be required to take action and possibly prosecute on our results 
of CO2 estimation, it is most important to be able to check our work against a 
reliable method. 

Dfemonstration of the method was here given. 

Dalton's Method and Modifications of it. The Dalton (or 

Pettenkofer) method has now been so improved as to be a reliable and quite 
satisfactory means of estimating the amount of CO2 in air if care and attention 
are paid to the numerous details. A good deal of experience is required in 
order to avoid serious error. 

Collection of Samples, (a) The hottU used for the collection of the 
sample of air should be large — at least capable of holding five litres and have 
a wide mouth. Its capacity should be accurately measured by filling it with 
distilled water at 60°F. to the top. An indiarubber cap is more convenient 
than any form of cork or stopper. The bottle should be washed clean and dried 
inside thoroughly. It is advisable that acid be not used for washing these 
collecting bottles as it is difficult to get rid of traces of it. 

(6) The air may be filled into the bottle by using a hcUoivs as a force pump, 
or by using it as an aspirator. The most convenient and best form is that 
suggested by Angus Smith. Such a bellows folds into small space, and when 
used as an aspirator enables the operator to place the bottle where the sample 
has to be collected while he himself may stand seven or eight feet away. (It 
is most important at all times to bear in mind the danger of error arising 
from one's own expired air.) The above form of bellows aspirator is used 
extensively in obtaining samples of gases in chemical works. One stroke of 
the bellows aspirates 1 cubic-foot of air. If the bellows is filled 10 times 
when working with a 5-litre bottle the air in the bottle will have been changed 
at least 20 times — sufficient to obtain a reliable sample. 

Reag^ents and Procedure. After filling with air the bottle is 

capped and taken to the laboratoiy where 100c. c. Baryta icatcr is added by 
means of a pipette. The absorption of the CO2 is allowed to go on for an hour, 
the Baryta solution being shaken up at intervals. The Baryta solution is 
removed from the absorption bottle with the same pipette and filled into a 
bottle of about 120c. c. capacity from which all CO2 has been previously 



224 EOBERTSON 

removed. This bottle has a well-vaselined stopper and the contained solution 
is allowed to deposit its carbonate by remaining quiescent for 24 hours. 

Every precaution must be taken to prevent so sensitive a solution coming 
in contact with air containing CO2 and specially with the expired air of the 
operator. When dealing with samples of pure air if the text-book descriptions 
of the process are followed the error will never be less than 25 per cent, and 
often will be as much as 50 per cent. 

The solutions required as are follows : — 

1. Baryta solution about 1 per cent. This should be stored in a large bottle 
having a soda lime inlet for air, and a special long outlet to admit of the 
pipettes being filled direct without suction being required. 

2. The acid which I think is the best for all-round work is twice recrystalized 
oxalic acid of the strength 141 grammes per litre.* This should be dissolved 
in boiled-out distilled water so as to free it as far as practicable from COj. 
Much of the commercial acid is impure. It is easier to obtain an approximately 
correct oxalic acid than a hydrochloric acid when working in a laboratory where 
correct solutions are not kept in stock. Weak solutions of oxalic acid have the 
great disadvantage of not keeping well. They should therefore always be used 
fresh. Each c.c. of this acid=l volume of CO2 per 10,000 when using 25c. c. 
of Baryta. 

The titration. 25c. c. of the Baryta solution should be placed in a flask 
from which all CO2 has been washed out and titrated with the oxalic acid, 
phenolphthalein being used as an indicator. Having obtained the accurate 
titre of the Baryta exactly similar procedure should be adopted with 25c. c. of 
the supernatent solution used as an absorbent. The 100c. c. allows of at least 
three such determinations. Quickness and care in preventing expired air 
gaining access to the Baryta is all important. 

At one time the error in my experiment with the Dalton method amounted 
to 09 volume of CO2 per 10,000. With the precautions I have above described 
it is less than 0"25 volume of CO2 per 10,000 volumes of air when dealing with 
pure air. I have not estimated what the error is when impure air is being 
dealt with but anticipate it will not be greater. 

Demonstration of method was given here. 

Method Adopted by the Author. Another very convenient 
method which I have used a good deal within recent years and found even less 
liable to error is as follows. The air is collected in an empty india-rubber 
balloon inside a wide-mouthed bottle by being pumped in by means of a 
hand-bellows. The india-rubber bag, filled with the air, is taken and attached 
to an absorption tube so arranged that the air is passed through the Baryta 
solution in small bubbles at a slow rate. 

The absorption tube was first devised by Pettenkofer and recently greatly 
improved by Dr. Gibson. 

This absorption tube is filled to a mark with the Baryta solution in the 
same way as one would fill a pipette from the Baryta stock-bottle. Five litres 

*The acid should be tested against a standard acid and proved to be C8H2042H20, 



ATMOSPHERIC CARBOIS^IC ACID 225 

of the air are drawn from the india-rubber bag through the absorption tube 
and into a graduated aspirator bottle. The absorption is very complete. Its 
efficiency may be controlled by means of a second similar tube connected with 
the first. After the whole of the air was passed through the contained Baryta 
solution is treated in exactly the same manner as that from the bottle. The 
advantage of this method is the ease with which an accurate sample can 
be obtained. A more accurate sample is obtained than with the bottle method. 
Its chief disadvantage lies in the fact that the passage of the air through the 
absorption tube takes at least an hour. 

The above absorption tube is admirably adapted for the estimation of CO2 
in ground air. The absorption tube is directly attached to the air tube in the 
ground and the air is measured by means of a bottle aspirator. 

Letts' and Blake's Method. Quite recently Letts and Blake have 
described an important modification of the Dalton process which will be found 
useful in ascertaining one's own working error by the ordinary process. 

All bottles used to contain or receive Baryta solution were coated with 
paraffin wax to prevent the Baryta acting on the glass. The collecting bottles 
were filled by a method of exhaustion, 50c. c. of Baryta were run in from a 
special measuring pipette so that the Baryta did not come in contact with the 
air at all. After absorption is complete the whole of the Baryta is sucked into 
a special vacuous flask and then titrated. The whole process is carried out 
with the least possible chance of error. It is however tedious and the apparatus 
expensive. With known volumes of CO2 added to air these observers found 
that the mean error per 10,000 volumes of air was only 004 volumes. 

Haldane'S Method. No account of modern methods for the estimation 
of CO2 would be complete without a reference to the excellent work done by 
Dr. J. S. Haldane, F.R.S. in this connection. 

The apparatus which he has devised is most ingenious and excellent in its 
arrangements. It enables an estimation of the amount of CO2 in the air to be 
made in about five minutes, and in addition it has the advantage of enabling 
the examination to be made on the spot and without any calculation. 

Dr. Haldane's description of the apparatus is so complete in the Journal of 
Hygiene, or in the report on the " Ventilation of Factories and Workshops," 
that it will be unnecessary to give here a detailed description of it. 

Briefly it consists of an accurately graduated measuring pipette which 
allows of exactly 25c. c. of air to be admitted for examination. Having collected 
the amount of air the CO2 is absorbed in a caustic potash solution. After 
complete abstraction of CO2 the volume of the air is again read off at the same 
temperature and pressure. The difference between the first and second readings 
giving the volumes of CO2 per 10,000 volumes of air. 

This appears to be very simple and easy of application, but in practice great 
care is required to ensure that the air under examination is kept at exactly the 
same temperature and pressure and that the whole of the apparatus is in good 
working order. 

My own personal experience with the apparatus has not been very great 
though I have used it at intervals during the past three years. I have had 



226 ROBERTSON 

some obviously inaccurate results when I least expected them, and it is the 
fear of a repetition of these results which makes me stick to one of the older 
methods which, though much more tedious, is, I think, more under control. 

Demonstration of Haldane's apparatus was given here. 

There are on the market many other varieties of apparatus for estimating 
the amount of atmospheric CO^. Most of these have some defect rendering 
them inaccurate or else they are mere modifications of the Dalton process. 

Corrections for Temperature and Pressure. A point 
which will arise in these determinations is as to whether it is necessary to 
correct for temperature and pressure. For all work where scientific accuracy 
is required such corrections must be made. On the other hand in estimations 
made with a view to ascertaining the amount of CO2 for the purpose of judging 
of the sufficiency or otherwise of the means of ventilation correction to normal 
temperature and pressure is unnecessary as the temperature and pressure at 
which the samples are analysed are relatively uniform and therefore the results 
are fairly comparable. 

Personal Error. A much more important point is to know 

accurately the amount of one's own experimental error. This will vary for 
each observer. If a uniform amount of care is observed the amount of the 
error will be consistently uniform. My own error with the Dalton method is 
024 volume of CO2 per 10,000 volumes of air, i.e., if I find 3'24 volumes of 
CO2 in air I know I am dealing with air containing three volumes only; if 
20'74 the corrected figure would be 20'5. 

It is most important to test one's results against such a gravimetric method 
as that of Haldane and Pembrey or that of Professor Letts and Mr. Blake. 

The effect of experimental error is indicated by the statements in most 
of our text-books that pure air contains about four volumes per 10,000, when, 
as a fact, such air contains rather less than three volumes — an error of about 
33 per cent, when pure air is being dealt with, or of 7 per cent, when air 
containing 14 volumes of CO2 per 10,000. 

Amount of Carbonic Acid in Air. Pure air was shown by Thorpe 
in 1866 to contain 2'95 volumes of CO2. Numerous other observers who have 
avoided the most obvious errors in the Dalton method have obtained similar 
results, the two most recent in this country being : — 

1. Haldane, who gives the following results:- — 

No. of Average CO2 
Analyses, per 10,000 vols. 

April 1st to September 30th | ^^^^ ' ' ' ^2 3-08 I ^'^^ 

December to January | jj^Jj^j."" 5 g.Q^ \ 3-00 

2. Prof. Letts and Mr. Blake 46 2-91 



ATMOSPHERIC CAEBONIC ACID 



227 



Variations Due to Seasons and Weatlier The variation in 

the amount of carbonic acid in the pure air of the country is extremely small 
from day to day. In the observations of Haldane noted above it varied from 
2"58 to 3'55 volumes per 10,000 at different times of the year, and in different 
weather conditions. It is difficult to make use of the results of other workers 
for they are not strictly comparable owing to variations in methods. 

My own observations are not sufficiently numerous but they indicate that 
during clear weather in summer-time the variation is slight if the observations 
be taken at the same time each day. 

All observers are agreed that there is in summer-time more CO2 in the air 
at night than during the day, due to the fact that plants only take up CO2 
during daylight and also to the escape of ground air from the warm soil into 
the cold atmosphere. There appears to be little doubt, however, that the 
amount of this variation is small and for practical purposes unimportant. My 
own figures show an absolute variation of 05 volume, i.e., from 29 to 3'4. 

But while the variations in atmospheric CO2 in pure air are small and 
practically unimportant, there are many conditions in nature which produce 
departures from the normal. 



^filOUOi 




i 


'—<-^~.-—- 


. T ■■ - r-r r ^ 










...._._,. 






■ 


.,.. . 


~": 


"^•^:1 


ofCOx 


. ' 








; 








' 












\ijQMa. 


! 




i . 










• 








nJil 






























: , i 
■ .1 










1 . 






'! \ 




■ . . i - 




















3-7-- 






/ 1 








■ .i 




i 










' 
' 




\ 


. , 1 

ifni 




\ 






;. 




; 




i 




• 






\ - 


-'!- 


H 


■ 'i - 


' ■ ] 


^k 




■- - 




, ! 


! 




'; i 




1 


i ': 






\ .• \ 


1 


3:? 


1 




-: i 








: i . 
1 


i ." ' 


■ • ■ I ■ : '"' 


:, f :■■: 


! - '■ 




j ','; 


■ 1 


xr 


;■■ 1 ;•■ 




. i :- 




• ' 


i 




• 










, i 


'^\ 


? / 






: ■■! ' 


.' : f ■ ' ■ 


.1 


■\. \.. [ 


■ i ' ' 


' ' : 1 ■ ' '1 




! . : 
i 


'j'i 


^y? 


1 








I " 


• 


1 ' 






■ 


i ■ 




\ - ; 




t^ 


j . 




- \ ' 




j 


- - , ■ 1 ■ . 




1 




.■,i ; 


. 1 . , 


k ' 


'1;:! 


is 


:,''■' 


r-::| ■! 


' 1 '■■ 
- i ■ 


': . 1 : 


j 


j : . 


■ ', ^ 




■ i 

: . 1 


■ 




' ■ ! '/' 


\ 


i 


w\ 


;.:-■].:,; 


'■ , 1 


i . ■ 


' i- • 


' ' , i ' ' 


■ ■ ■ j . 


','■■''■■ 


; ■ . , j 


■■/■■! ■■ 






■ 1 ' 




U\\ 




Mm 


iii4ii 


miM 


liiii&i 


y 






m\m 


\¥M^ 


Mm 


W^M'. 


•iiiliiii 


L-ii 


il 


liiL! 



9 10 11 12 1 2 .S 4 
A.M. P.M. 



6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
A.M. 



Hourly variation in amount of CO^ in atmosphere in Sunnner time. 



228 ROBEETSON 



Influence of Towns. All observers are agreed that the air of 
towns contains appreciably more CO2 than does that of the country. The 
following are a few averages : — 

Observer. District. Toton. Country. 

Angus Smith Manchester 43 369 

Muntz Paris 319 284 

Spring and Roland ... Liege 335 2'94 

Williams Sheffield 385 329 



Influence of Largfe Water Surfaces. The amount of COj 

is least over large water surfaces such as the ocean, and the diurnal variation 
is, as expected, absent. 

Influence of Veg^etation. The amount of CO2 taken up by green 
leaves is very considerable. Under favourable conditions as much as | litre 
of CO2 can be decomposed by a square metre of leaf surface. This ought to 
play a very important part in influencing the amount of CO2 in air, but air 
currents both upwards and lateral reduce the effect so that in practice the 
variation is unimportant. 

Influence of Fog. Angus Smith was probably the first to demonstrate 
the importance of fog in increasing the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. 
His figures are for Manchester: During fogs, 6' 79 vols. CO2; ordinary weather, 
4-03 vols. CO.2 

Dr. W. J. Russell, F.R.S., made observations at St. Bartholomew's Hospital 
in 1882 — 84, and found that as much as 14' 1 vols, of CO2 may be found in a 
London fog, and that the mean results of 29 examinations showed 7'2 vols, 
of CO2 per 10,000 vols. 

The importance of recognising this fact will be obvious when estimations 
of the amount of CO2 in the air are made for ventilation purposes. 

The excess of COj during fogs has been shown to be due to the accumulation 
of the products of combustion and decomposition due to the absence of air 
currents. 

Influence of Rain. Rain appears to diminish the amount of CO3 in 
the air by washing out a small proportion. 

Von Fodor, at Buda Pest, gives the following results : — 



1877 


Before rain. 
46 


During rain. 
415 


1878 


3-86 


353 


1879 


3-68 


3-60 



ATMOSPHERIC CARBONIC ACID 229 

Influence of" Season. There is a slight increase in CO^ in winter. 
Peterman, working at Gembloux, in Belgium, gives the following : — 

Spring 2' 95 
Summer 291 
Autumn 292 
Winter 295 

Stora.g'e of CO2 in the Soil. The great carbonic acid storehouse is 
the soil. Here bacterial life is constantly producing enormous quantities of 
the gas which concentrates in the lower layers, and in the upper layers is 
diluted by transfusion. From this storehouse CO2 is given off during the night 
and during windy weather. Von Fodor, who has done so much in regard to 
the CO. J in the soil has published a diagram of the season changes in the 
amount of CO2 in the soil at varying depths. 

My own observations indicate that the amount yielded by the soil varies 
very much in different soils and even in any particular soil the amount varies 
enormously from year to year with temperature, rainfall, and wind. 

Influence of Respiration and Combustion, The question 
of vitiation of air by CO2 derived from combustion and respiration is from the 
practical point of view the most important source of COg. Here again some 
most excellent work has been done in Manchester by Mr. Francis Jones, who 
has published in his "Airs of rooms " a most important contribution to our 
knowledge of the influence of combustion and respiration on the air in rooms. 

Any consideration of the effects produced by combustion in the air of rooms 
would lead us too far away from the subject proper of our lecture. The amount 
of CO2 in air from combustion and respiration is indicated by the difference 
actually found between the air in the centre and that in the suburbs of a 
large City. Specially is this noticeable when the movement of the air is a 
slow one and when convection currents are reduced to a minimum by the 
presence of fog. 



Defective Sanitary Appliances. 



BY 



FRANCIS VACHER, 

County Medical Officer of Health, Cheshire. 



Defective Sanitary Appliances. 



Introduction. 

*' Sanitary science and plumbing are synonymous," remarks an American 
writer, with amusing freshness. There are probably few on this side the 
Atlantic who would venture to endorse this statement, yet one may admire its 
spirit, and wish that plumbing were a little more sanitary and a little more 
scientific. 

All defects in house construction are in one way or another dangerous to 
health. Plumbing and drainage work, however, seenjs to require very 
exceptional knowledge, skill and judgment, and when these happen to be 
wanting the work is done under conditions which make good work impossible, 
and the outcome is that health and comfort are affected in no small degree. 
The defective work may be due to ignorance, unhandiness, negligence, 
carelessness, hurry or deliberate wrong-doing. The blame attaching thereto 
is not wholly, or indeed primarily, the artisan's. The work may be ill-planned 
by the architect, or not planned at all. The contract to do the work may be 
at an impossibly low price, necessitating the employment of inferior material, 
or the time limit allowed for the work may be too short. Again, the artisan, 
though duly apprenticed, may never have been properly taught. Of course 
occasionally the actual operative is solely to blame — he may be idle and 
demoralised, or slovenly, and his work is but half done, or simply left undone. 

The subject I am to bring before you is defective sanitary appliances. 
Whether these be due to lack of art, or lack of industry or lack of conscience 
it is not my present purpose to discuss. Whatever the cause, immediate oi 
remote, the defective sanitary appliances are in our homes and our neighbours' 
homes now or lately. Wherever we live they are abundant, if not ubiquitous. 
I lay claim to no special information on this subject, but since 1885 it has 
much interested me, and I have been, so to speak, on the look out for defective 
appliances. The instances of faulty arrangements or apparatus which I have 
discovered, or had communicated to me, form, I think, an instructive collection, 
and some of these I now propose to bring before you. The first question I liad 
to consider was how to represent the defective appliances effectively. I tried 
photography, but that did not seem well suited to illustrate this particular 
siibject; then I tried lantern slides and again was not satisfied with the results. 
Finally, I decided that the most direct and simple way of illustrating such a 
topic was by means of diagrams showing each object to be displayed as it 
actually appeared or in section. The next question was one of order, i.e., how 
to group my exhibits. For the systematic study of defective apparatus and 
arrangements the more convenient way of grouping examples is probably under 



234 



VACHER 



such headings as " rain conducting," " yard and area drains," " waste pipes," 
" soil pipes," " domestic cisterns," etc. For a lecture some other way of grouping 
seems better calculated to arrest attention and fasten on the memory, and the 
one I have chosen may answer the purpose as well as another. Any arrange- 
ment will prove arbitrary and in a measure unscientific, as an example often 
shows many defects and with equal fitness might be classed in two or three 
groups. 

Antiquated and Obsolete Appliances. In a search of the kind 

I have undertaken some of the first appliances which appealed to me as worthy 
of remark were those which come under this heading. I give an illustration of 

antiquated traps occasionally 
found in connection with sink 
waste pipes. Fig. 1 shows 
what is called a Buxton trap 
in section. It consists of a 
pipe bent as indicated, and pro- 
vided with a tightly-covered 
chamber, in which is a conical 
plug attached to a float. It 
was no doubt intended that 
when the water was dis- 
charged from the sink the 
float would rise and settle into 
position again as the water 
escaped. The plug was made 
exactly to fit the outlet and 
packed to be water-tight. 
This appliance was said to 
have an advantage over other 
traps as it would allow solids as well as liquid to pass it. However, there came 
a day when certain solids did not pass, but prevented the plug from fitting 
tight, and the return of foul air ceased to be checked. Fig. 2, a duck-bill trap, 
though a very different sort of trap, is quite as inefficient. The top of it is a 
strong metal ring, fitting close to the entrance to the sink water-pipe. To the 
lower part of this ring two curved plates are hung, which in the first instance 
rested one against the other, and when wet closed the mouth of the sink pipe; 
but very shortly small pieces of solid matter must have prevented the exact 
apposition of the curved plates, and the trap at once ceased to fulfil its functions. 
Both these traps are so manifestly bad that they are now rarely seen. The 
next example of a defective trap which I give is still frequently unearthed. It 
is apparently intended to serve as a ventilated trap, but as long as it contains 
any trapping-water neither the house side nor sewer side of the drain would be 
ventilated. The perpendicular portion, if continued to the surface, admits 
rubbish and does not facilitate the cleansing of the drain. When the per- 
pendicular portion is completely sealed, as it is occasionally, no ventilation can 
take place even when the drain is dry. Should this sealing be incomplete, 
results may follow similar to those indicated in Fig. 3. The drain (6 inches in 





Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



DEFECTIVE SANITARY APPLIANCES 



235 




Fig. 3. 



diameter), a portion of which is here represented, was constructed of glazen 

earthenware pipes, cement- 
jointed, and having sufficient 
fall. However, as it passed 
under a plantation of young 
trees, a trap had been inserted 
as shown. The mouth of the 
perpendicular pipe was 6ft. from 
the ground surface, and being 
merely covered with a piece of 
slate (S), the roots (R) of the 
young trees in search for water 
found their way in, and a dense 
mass of fine root ends, felted to- 
gether, filled the pipe, entirely 
obstructing the drain (D) 
which, on the house side of the trap was soon filled. 

Many more examples of antiquated apparatus could be given, but I pass on 
now to 

Casting's Defective in Design. I give three illustrations under 
this heading, and I admit that before I found the three traps I am now to refer 
to I was quite unaware that various forms of cast-iron traps were quite ordinarily 
bought and sold which could by no possibility act as traps or trap anything 
except the purchaser. One of these traps is shown in section in Fig. 4. It was 

fixed in the rear of a house bearing a rental of about 
£65. It was properly connected to the drain, and 
certain waste-pipes, delivering on the top, kept it well 
supplied with water. A brief examination showed the 
trap to be a delusion, as the water stood an inch too 
low to form a seal. Effluvia in the drains were thus 
brought close up to the dwelling-house and discharged 
directly under the scullery window. The workman 
had set the trap quite square and made good connec- 
tions, but no intelligent workman does his duty honestly 
who fixes a trap without first testing it. Oddly 
enough this trap went by the name of " Smith's Gully," and I found that Smith 
was a man who had received some training as a civil engineer, and who acted 
for many years as District Surveyor to a Local Board. 

Fig. 5 depicts in section a so-called bo.v-trap. When discovered it was 

supposed to be trapping the 
yard-drain of a house in an 
important thoroughfare in 
the centre of the town. A 
is the lid, perforated with 
16 small holes, and carrying 
the useless box B on the 
under surface; C is the 
reservoir of water (2jins. 
deep) into which the box 
should dip, but which it 
does not touch ; and D is 
the outflow from the trap 
leading to the drain. 

Fig. 6 shows in section 
a typically bad trap. Box- 




Fig. 4. 




Fig. 5. 



236 



VACHER 



traps are seldom fixed now, but bell-traps are still supplied by the hundred, and 



trusted to guard the sink waste-pipe 
A 




The trap depicted I examined and 
measured with great care, 
and then drew the section 
given. A is the perforated 
grating, B the bell, C 
the water reservoir — whicli 
the rim of the bell could 
never reach, — and D the 
portion of the casting which 
was continuous with the sink 
waste-pipe going straight to 
the drain. It will be noted 
that the distance between 
the rim of the bell and 
the surface of the water, 
when the reservoir was full, 
would be one-quarter of an 
inch. 

Flawed or Broken Appliances. When appliances are fixed which 

are either flawed or broken, it must be due to gross carelessness or deliberate 
wrong-doing. Flaws in lengths of rain-pipe and rain-guttering 
are apparently not uncommon. Fig. 7 represents one I saw. 
In the wall of a new public building flush with the street 
was a chase containing a 4-inch iron rain-spout. In this 
was a double crack, 18ins. long, which in course of time 
became converted into a hole as shown at A. The hole being 
3^ft. from the pavement, P, caused an effluvium nuisance to 
foot-passengers, as the rain spout was directly connected to 
a soil drain. Such a pipe should never have been accepted 
and used. 

Fig. 8 is a sectional view of a glazed earthenware trap I 

discovered at the mouth of a yard-drain. A notice had been 

served on the owner to provide a proper yard drain, and I 

called to see if the work had 

been done. The tenant said the 

workman had finished the job a 

day or two ago, and took me into 

the yard where was the new 

glazed earthenware trap. As it 

did not hold water, even when 

freshly poured in, I had it 

removed and found a large hole 

in the back. I questioned the 

tenant as to whether anyone 

belonging to the house had 

broken the trap and he said it had not been touched since the workman left. 

The only conclusion open to me was therefore that a tradesman had been guilty 

of the fraud of selling and fixing a broken trap. 




Fig. 7. 



Fig. 8. 



DEFECTIVE SxlNITAliY APPLIANCES 



237 




Fig. 9. 



Appliances Put in Wrongly. Fig. 9 sliows the uselessness of 
trapping a yard-drain witli a loose trap of any pattern. The trap indicated in 

section, is a so-called dish-trap of cast-iron. It 
easily gets obstrvicted, and for this reason it is 
commonly inserted without any setting, so that it 
may be taken up and cleansed. Foul air and gases 
in the drain are, of course, not kept back, but find 
their way out external to the trap on all sides as 
shown in the illustration. The trap pictured was 
found on premises owned by well-to-do people who 
would hardly have objected to the cost of providing 
and fixing an efficient gully-trap if the defects of 
the loose trap had been pointed out to them. 
Fig. 10 is a sectional view of a trap which holds too little trapping water to 

be secure even had it been 
properly set. However, the 
workman who fixed it had done 
his work so negligently that 
owing to uneven setting the 
water - seal was completely 
broken. Such a blunder could 
hardly be made except in a 
yard paved with small boulders 
or very badly levelled. 




Fig. 10. 



Planning Defective to Save [Material or Time. Defects 
appear to be often due to this cause. I am reminded of two in particular, both 

a little striking. Fig. 11 shows a back 
kitchen wall in section. On one side is 
the bottom of an area (A) and on the 
opposite side is a sinkstone (C) draining 
direct to a trap (D) fixed in the floor. 
This area, instead of being drained in a 
proper way, was drained to the sink- 
stone by a short lead pipe (B). What 
led to this part of the house being 
examined was an efiluvium nuisance in 
the back kitchen which was traced to the 
trap. The trap was obviously sealed by 
a decomposing animal liquid, and the 
readiest explanation of this seemed to 
be that the area had been used after 
dark for a purpose for which it was 
certainly not intended. 

Fig. 12 illustrates a mistake, the 
y^^^^, ^^__^ ,j^^ ^ ,y,, ,. . ,y, exact opposite of the above. A sink in 

^ D^^B^^i^^ +^e basement of a large house had to be 

provided with a waste-pipe. As there 
was an " air-drain " all round the house, 
fixing this waste-pipe was not as simple 
a job as it might have been otherwise. The plumber apparently saw no 




238 



YACHER 



difl&culty but did his work in the shortest and cheapest way. He pierced tlie 
wall and carried a short waste-pipe (B) into the "air-drain" A. The house 
where this occurred was a handsome suburban villa, exceedingly well built and 
provided with many modern conveniences. The air-drain about 14ins. wide, 
communicated with the air above by iron gratings (C) situated opposite the 




Fig. 12. 



basement windows. The bottom of this area was cemented over and finished 
off as a channel — the area draining by a very slight incline to a trap placed in 
an inaccessible position. The trap got choked, and foul, soapy water, collected 
in the channel to the depth of some inches, and effluvia came into the premises 
through the basement windows. The house was indeed an island, surrounded 
on all sides by very foul stop-water. 

A third example of a defect of this kind is shown in Fig. 13. I found the 



DEFECTIVE SANITARY APPLIANCES 



239 



arrangement in a liouse rented at £65 a year. 




Fig. 13. 

terrace, of an etfiuvium nuisance cliiefly noticed in 
on an examination of the premises was traced to a 
basement, where the water-pipe, after being 
branched to the sink, disappeared. A rough 
hole had been knocked in a 4in. earthenware 
soil-pipe (D), and through this the lead-pipe 
had been passed. It was carried np inside the 
soil-pipe through two floors, and re-appeared 
(C) piercing the top of the lead trap (B), which 
was jointed to the basin (A). 

Planning^ Defective Owing: to 
Misdirection. Delivering a bath or lava- 
tory waste-pipe, as indicated in Fig. 15, is 
approved of in model bye-laws, yet waste-pipes 
thus treated may cause a great nuisance. The 
bath and hand-basin waste-pipes are brought 
outside to discharge on the area flags (B), which 



The pantry was under the 
bathroom. One day soapy 
water was ejected from the 
sink waste-pipe (D) with 
considerable force, and as 
the bath (A) had just been 
used it was obvious that 
the soapy water came from 
the bath. On investigation 
it was found that the bath 
waste-pipe (B) had been 
connected with the sink 
waste-pipe above the trap 
(E), and this had become 
obstructed at the point 
ma»rked (F). The pantry 
sink (C), being much 
smaller than the bath, was 
soon full and overflowing. 
The motive of this arrange- 
ment was probably to save 
a few feet of lead pipe, and 
make one trap serve both 
waste-pipes. 

The fourth example I 
show under this heading 
must surely be unique. It 
is a curiously ill-planned 
service to a closet : the 
arrangement is shown in 
Fig. 14. Complaint was 
received from the tenant of 
an eight-roomed liouse in a 
the basement. The nuisance 
portion of the ceiling in the 




Fig. 14. 



240 



VAOHER 




Fig. 15. 



are channelled to conduct the 
water to a trap (C). Only one 
waste-pipe (A) is represented, but 
I have seen three together treated 
in the same manner. In some 
instances I have seen the trap a 
yard or more from the end of the 
pipe, and sometimes no channel 
or conductor to the trap is pro- 
vided. In any case the flagging 
between the pipe and the trap is 
always foul, and effluvia find 
their way into the house at the 
kitchen or pantry window. 



The method of dealing with the sink-waste shown in Fig. 16 is advocated 
by a distinguished engineer and enjoined by many Sanitary Authorities, yet 
'//////\ the method is wholly bad. 

The arrangement will be 
seen at a glance. The sink- 
stone (A) has a short waste- 
pipe (B) which is directly 
connected with the basin of 
a closet (C) adjoining. In 
the case referred to the 
mouth of the waste-pipe had 
once been guarded by a bell- 
trap, but the top was lost 
when the premises were 
visited. The effluvia from 
the closet basin were 
directly conveyed to the 
sink-stone, and the only 
water the closet had to 
flush it was the more or 
less greasy slop - water 
poured down the sink. 




DEFECTIVE SANITAllY APPLIANCES 



241 




Planningr Defective Owing: to Gross Carelessness, it 

would be difficult to find a worse instance of gross carelessness than the one 

shown in Fig. 17. A large 
house was under inspection 
when unoccupied. Six 
months before a new bath 
had been fixed, and it was 
found that the waste-pipe 
from this (B) had been 
connected, to a rain-water 
pipe (A) close by. It 
chanced that the rain-water 
pipe discharged into a 
cistern under the house, 
but some distance off. As 
the bath had been in use 
for three or four months 
before the house was 
vacated, the cistern was 
much polluted. Connect- 
ing the waste-pipe with the 
rain - pipe was doubtless 
Fig. 17. done in the belief that the 

rain-water ran to waste, but no serious effort could have been made to see if 
this were so. 

The only other example I shall give under this heading is perhaps the most 
interesting record I have. A case of typhoid fever had occurred in a very old 
house in a poor neighbourhood, and after removal of the patient to hospital 
the usual report as to the state of the premises was submitted to me. From 

the report I gathered that there 
was a water-closet built out from 
the back wall, a separate service 
cistern for the same, and a pipe 
from the main for drinking and 
domestic purposes. Not satisfied 
with this report, I examined the 
premises myself. I found the 
closet was entered from a small 
landing on the stairs, between the 
ground floor and the first floor. 
On looking to see what was under 
this I saw what is depicted in 
Fig. 18, viz., a sink-stone, with 
tap from the main, and immedi- 
ately over the sinkstone the lead 
trap fixed under the closet-basin, 
and a transverse portion of soil- 
pipe connected therewith, which 
was carried through the brick 
wall into the house. In the soil- 
pipe close to the trap was a 
corroded hole (S). Through this 
hole foul air must often have been 
discharged, and foul liquids from 
the closet must often have over- 
flowed. Indeed, here were all the 
conditions present which one 
would expect to find resulting in 




242 



VACHER 



an outbreak of typhoid fever. What in all probability happened is that 
drinking water drawn from the tap was made foul by excremental liquid 
dropping into it, and the water thus polluted was actually drank. The illustra- 
tion shows how easily a jug of water drawn from the main tap might be 
polluted by foul liquid from the liole in the soil-pipe. 

Ventilating^ vifith Polluted Air. I give two illustrations of this. 
Fig. 19 shows what I saw at a suburban villa, rented at £70 a year. Complaint 

was maxie that water was coming in 
through the external wall of a room in the 
basement used as a washhouse. On 
investigation it was found that the water 
came through an iron grating that had 
been put in to ventilate the basement.. On 
the outside of this grating was a small area, 
which had been made to receive the gully- 
trap on .which the sink waste-pipe delivered. 
As this area was covered by an iron grating, 
no attempt to cleanse it or the trap it 
contained had been made for a long time. 
The result was that the trap got tilled to 
the brim with fat and other offensive 
matter, and then foul water discharged by 
the sink waste-pipe filled the area, till it 
reached the level of the ventilator and 
overflowed. Of course a ventilating- 
grating should never have been fixed in 
such a position. 

You will probably be sur- 
prised to hear that Fig. 20 
illustrates a comparatively 
common fault. The sketch was 
taken from a large building 
used as a hospital. The waste- 
pipe (A) from two hand basins 
is seen discharging on a roof 
gutter (B). The foul water 
ran along the open gutter for 
five feet before it reached the 
downspout. Two feet above 
the gutter, which was ordin- 
arily in a very foul state, was a 
window, which was often left 
open to air the room. The 
waste-pipe should have been 
brought down to a trap on the 
ground level. 




Fig. 19. 




"""■"'^m,, 



Fig. 20. 



DEFECTIVE SANITARY APPLIANCES 



243 



Admission of Sewer-g^as to a House. This is done frequently and in 

various Avays. Two examples may suffice. Fig. 21 
represents in section the top of a dwelling-house wall 
with slates and rain-gutter. It is thus seen how a 
rain spout carried direct into a drain or sewer 

v^ y/////V///// delivers gases therefrom into the house. To 

\ '/^/////////y simplify the sketch the framework of the roof is not 

indicated. B is where the framework should be, 
and A is the 3ins. rain-spout. 




Fig. 




Fig. 22 shows an unventilated soil-pipe 
(A) talcen outside the house directly it leaves 
the closet. As there was no proper con- 
nection between this and the house drain 
(D), the contents were allowed to escape to 
some extent and polluted the wall from 
opposite the leak to the footings. However, 
this did not prevent the sewer gases going 
straight up into the cistern room, for as will 
be seen the cistern overflow pipe (B) went 
direct to the soil-pipe, the effect being that 
the sewer was ventilated into the cistern 
room. There is nothing very unusual about 
this arrangement, bad as it is, except that 
where a cistern overflow is carried into a soil- 
pipe, the connection is usually made inside 
the house, the plumber probably being 
conscious that he is doing something 
irregular. To bring a cistern overflow 
through an external wall, carry it down some 
distance and connect it with an unventilated 
soil-pipe, points to an unconsciousness of 
wrong-doing in the workman, indicating that 
he had never been properly instructed. 



Fig. 22. 



244 



VACHER 




The Defect of Trap-Circumvention. One would think that 

every plumber knew that the inten- 
tion of a trap was to form a water- 
seal to keep back foul air. However, 
it is not unusual, when a trap is in 
position, for a workman to come 
round on the other side of the trap 
making it quite useless. Fig. 23 
illustrates the most common way in 
which this is done. The bath (A) 
has a trap (B) on the waste-pipe, but 
this trap has been made of no avail 
owing to the overflow being con- 
nected to the waste-pipe between 
Fig. 23. the trap and the house drain. The 

outcome was that the said drain 
was ventilated into the bath- 
room. Fig. 24 shows another 
way of making the same mis- 
take. The old form of closet 
apparatus, with a container (C) 
below the basin (B), was 
ordinarily fitted with a "' safe," 
or tray, to catch any foul 
water, etc., overflowing from the 
basin. The plumber apparently 
thought this tray wanted drain- 
ing, and to drain it he carried 
a short pipe (D) therefrom into 
the soil-pipe (E), consequently 
circumventing his trap. 

Yet another way in which the same result was achieved is indicated in Fig. 
25. A closet basin (B) and trap beneath (C) were in one piece of glazed earthen- 
ware, and there was an opening (D) behind 
the trap for connecting a ventilator. In 
this instance no ventilator had been con- 
nected. A great nuisance was experienced, 
and on uncovering the apparatus it was found 
that the man who fixed it had filled up the 
hole (where the ventilator should have been 
connected) with paijcr, and covered this over 
at the top with putty. In course of time the 
putty loosened, and then the foul air from the 
soil-pipe had ready access into the house. Of 
course this foul air was rendered more foul 
by passing through a plug of paper saturated 
with the filth of years. 





DEFECTIYE SANITARY APPLIANCES 



245 



Unsealing: a Trap by Syphonagre. 



I 

i 
I 

i 

I 

I 
I 

I 

1 




Fig. 26. 
that this ventilator would prevent the trap seal being broken. 



The possibility of a trap being 
unsealed by sypbonage should 
always be kept in view. It 
happens under various cir- 
cumstances, but its occurrence 
may, with care, be prevented. 
I have notes and. sketches 
referring to many cases where 
it occurred, but I have only 
space for one example. The 
arrangements are shown in 
section in Fig. 26. The 
apparatus depicted was of the 
kind ordinarily supplied many 
years ago, but instead of 
having a D or S trap under the 
container, there was a sort of P 
trap. It is quite possible this 
form of trap may have been 
put in, instead of an S, as 
being less liable to sypbonage. 
However, when the closet was 
flushed, so much of the 
trapping-water was swept for- 
ward out of the trap that the 
seal was broken. The basin 
is marked B, the container C, 
the trap D, the soil-pipe F, 
and E is the ventilator, carried 
right up through the roof. 
No doubt the plumber thought 




Fig. 27 



246 



VACHER 



Foul Air from Waste Pipes Driven into the House. This is 
often done, and nearly always in the same manner, by gathering many waste- 
pipes into one and trapping the outlet. Fig. 27 shows in section a typical 
instance of this defect. The waste-pipes and overflow-pipes from a bath, row 
of hand basins and housemaid's sink discharged into a 2|in. pipe in a chase 
in the wall. There were three stories, each provided with a similar range, all 
draining into the same 2^in. pipe, which was ventilated by being continued 
through the roof. As, however, this pipe was provided at the foot with a trap 
(embedded in the wall) there was no passage of air through it. The consequence 
was that when the ranges in the upper and middle stories were used, foul air 
was forced through the untrapped waste and overflow-pipes in the lower storey, 
and when the range in the upper storey only was used, foul air from the 
untrapped waste and overflow-pipes was perceived in the middle and lower 
storeys. 

IViaking: Provision for tiie Effects of Frost and 

This is accountable for much damage and inconvenience. What defect 
could be more obvious than that illustrated in Fig. 28? 
A service had been provided for the garden, and the tap 
not being placed at the lowest part of the branch, a 
portion remained which could not be emptied. The 
water had been run off from the pipes and cistern, as a 
frost was expected, but of course the cnl de sac remained 
full and froze, and the lead was burst as indicated. As 
soon as the water was turned on again the rent was made 
manifest. 

Fig. 28. 



Not 
Snow. 





'///'/\A777\ 



Fig. 29, 



DEFECTIVE SANITARY APPLIANCES 



247 




Fig. 29 shows the expansion pipe from a hot-water cylinder, which was 
ruptured by frost three times between Christmas and the middle of January. 
Every plumber knows that an expansion pipe should not be exposed to the 
action of frost, yet the pipe shown was carried along the roof, unprotected, for 
5ft., and then up a chimney for 4ft. Just beyond the point where it pierced the 
roof there was a joint, and the first rupture occurred close to this at 1. After 
it was mended a second rupture occurred at 2, and after this was mended the 
pipe burst for the third time at 3. The chimney was from a kitchen and was 
practically always warm, and if the pipe, instead of being carried along the 
slates, had been made to pierce the roof where the chimney came through, it 
would have been sufficiently protected from the action of frost. 

Fig. 30 indicates a defective way of fixing an 

ordinary half-circle eaves gutter, which I have 

seen at several houses. The gutter was fastened 

just too high, and in time of snow prevented the 

/ y^^^z^^^^^ s^^ snow sliding off the roof. In some instances, had 

•---^^^ l\iQ gutter been placed two inches lower, it would 

have offered no obstruction to the roof clearing 
itself after a snow-fall. When the extent of roof- 
surface is considerable, gutters may be wrenched 
out of position by the weight of snow held up. 

Fig. 30. 
Removing an Appliance after inspection. This is not 
as exceptional as it should be. I only give one example. The defects produced 
,.---:. in this instance were simply the result of an 

f"""''! impudent attempt to evade the law. I noticed 

V-v.-.-;// four houses where the soil-pipe ventilators termin- 

ated close to back windows. In three cases the 
ends were on a level with the tops of the windows, 
and in one case a foot above the top. As the 
requirement with respect to soil-pipe ventilators 
is that they shall be carried up not less than 2ft. 
above the roof eaves, and the houses were quite 
new, special inquiries were instituted. Under the 
local Act, passed in 1881, it is " not lawful to let 
or occupy as a dwelling-house any building, not so 
occupied before the commencement of the Act, 
until such building has been certified by the 
surveyor, or other officer appointed for tlio 
purpose, to be as to drainage, supply of water for 
domestic purposes, and in every other respect fit 
for human habitation, and constructed and com- 
pleted in conformity with tlie provisions of the 
Act and the local bye-laws." It transpired that 
these four houses had been examined, and as the 
soil-pipes there terminated as required (2ft. above 
the roof eaves) the houses were duly certified as 
fit for habitation. However, shortly afterwards 
other houses approached completion, and iron 
castings necessary to carry the ventilators 2ft. above the roof eaves not being 




Fig. 31. 



248 



VACHER 



ready to hand, those belonging to the four houses already certified were 
removed, and made to do duty in obtaining a certificate for other houses. When 
the houses thus robbed were inspected, three were visited, and in each of these 
three the window next the soil-pipe end was open for two or three inches at the 
top. Fig. 31 explains itself. 




I 



V> RAISED BRICK CHANNEL 





OVEN 

Fig. 32. 




Polluting' a Baker's Oven. Much attention has of late been given 
to underground ovens, and it is hoped that in a short time they will be 
altogether things of the past. The last diagram I produce indicates how liable 
to pollution these ovens are. The baker's oven to which Fig. 32 refers was 
situated immediately under the back yard of the baker's house and shop — a 
back yard which was just big enough to hold it. The bath and lavatory waste 
water was discharged on an open brick channel, and so conveyed to the gulley. 
Any little obstruction in the channel made it overflow. The lower part of the 
soil-pipe and the upper end of the Gins, drain to which it was connected 
adjoined the oven wall. Both Gins, drains discharged into a Gins, main drain 
in the back passage. 

In conclusion, it only remains for me to say that barely the fringe of this 
important subject has been touched in my lecture. However, it has not been 
my object to deal with defective plumbing systematically, but rather to awaken 
an interest in it and show what very curious arrangements there are hidden and 
unsuspected in many modern dwelling-houses. 

It may be well to add that more efficient training in plumbing and kindred 
work is now having the attention of the Worshipful Company of Plumbers, 
London, and many Technical Instruction Committees throughout the country. 



Report upon an alleged Effluvium 

Nuisance attributed to the use of 

Yeast in a Tannery, 

and upon an Outbreak of Diphtheria. 



BY 



SHERIDAN DELEPINE, M.B„ B.Sc, 

Professor of Pathology and Director of the Public Health Laboratory^ Manchester. 



Report upon an alleged Effluvium Nuisance 
attributed to the use of Yeast in a Tannery, 
and upon an Outbreak of Diphtheria. 



Preliminary Remarlcs. 

Certain maniifacturing processes are associated w^ith the production of gases 
wliicli have an unpleasant smell and are, on that account, sometimes supposed 
to be detrimental to health. The occurrence of an outbreak of disease in the 
neighbourhood of a factory where strong smells are generated may, at times, 
strengthen a mistaken belief in the existence of danger. This was actually the 
case with regard to an alleged nuisance supposed to arise from a tannery, and 
which was investigated for the Rural District Council of lluncorn in January, 
February and March, 1903. An account of that investigation has already been 
given to the Council in March, 1903, in a Eeport where full details about 
procedure and documents consulted may be found. In this communication a 
shorter account of the same investigation is given. The specimens exhibited 
in the laboratory are samples of the various kinds of tanning material, tan 
liquors, tannery effluents, which are mentioned in the Report. The collection 
of yeasts isolated from these various substances has been prepared by Dr. 
Carver, and a description of these yeasts will be found in the special report 
contributed by him. (See The Characters of Yeasts Occurring in Tanning 
Material, etc., by J. R. Carver, p. 279.) 

I. INTRODUCTION. 

During the month of November, 1902, I was requested by Dr. Adams on behalf 
of the Runcorn Rural District Council to investigate whether the smells arising 
from Mr. L.'s Tannery, Cliff Lane, Grappenhall, constituted an effluvium 
nuisance dangerous to health. This request was made owing to a complaint 
made by Mr. N., a gentleman residing in the neighbourhood of the tannery. 

Summary of tlie Compiaint. 1st. The smell from Mr. L.'s 
tannery is a very great nuisance to the neighbourhood, it constitutes an 
effluvium nuisance dangerous to health, which has rendered Mr. N.'s house 
virtually unfit for habitation. 

2nd. This smell is not an ordinary one; it strikes people in various ways, 
causing painful choking sensations, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, faintness, etc. 

3rd. The smell has been the cause of much fatal disease in the Thelwall 
district. 

4th. The nuisance appears to be due to changes in the method of tanning. 
Prior to these changes no inconvenience was caused by the tannery. 



252 DELEPINE 

5tli. This effluvium nuisance is due " to a septic fervient, in this case yeast 
Cells." 

The smell is described variously as : — 

Horrible stench, putrid smell, smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, smell 
burning throat and chest, keen acrid stench, putrid stench mixed 
with burnt stench, etc. 
The effects produced on various persons are said by them to be : — 

Burning of throat and chest, sore throat, diphtheria, diarrhoea, faintness, 

choking, loss of voice, dyspnoea, depression, flow of tears, etc., etc. 

The smell has been attributed successively to decayed foreign hides left on 

a heap of manure, to old soaks, to secret tanning processes and the use of yeast, 

to the tannery brook (ditch along Waste Lane), to one tip of spent tan (in the 

fields) the deepest parts of which are supposed to generate the stench. 

Specific statements have been made regarding some of the dates upon which 
the smell had been noticed to be very bad. I give them with the names of the 
persons responsible for these statements : — 

1899 December 17. (Scarle). 

1900 January. (Leah). 

1901 February 16. (Vickers). 

1901 August 17. (12-30 to 5 a.m.). (Leah). 

1902 August 1. (Leah). 
1902 August 23. (Scarle). 

1902 December 22. (Leah, oral statement to me on the day of my visit). 

1902 December 30. (Mr. N. from reports). 

1903 January 2. (9-30 to 12 a.m.) id. id. 
1903 January 4. (Leah). 
1903 January 6. (Leah). 
1903 January 10. (Leah). 
1903 January 14. (Mr. N. from reports). 
1903 February 21 and 22. id. id. 

. 1903 February 27 and 28. id. id. 

1903 March 4, 7, 11. id. id. 



It will be noticed that these 
dates correspond to the period 
during which I conducted my 
investigation. Also to the 
period during which the tan- 
nery was watched closely day 
and night on behalf of the 
County Medical Officer of 
Health. 



ALLEGED TANNERY EFFLUVIUM NUISANCE 253 



11. INSPECTION OF THE TANNERY. 

Description of the Locality in 1900. As I had no opportunity 
of seeing the state of things which existed when the alleged nuisance was first 
formally complained of, and as the existence at that time of a certain brook 
and cesspool at one side of a portion of Waste Lane is a matter of iinportance, 
I think it best to reproduce here parts of Dr. Yacher's report to the Runcorn 
Rural District Council, dated July 12th, 1900, and which has been communicated 
to me by the district Medical Officer of Health. (See Map, p. 23). 

" Leaving the Knutsford Road, we came to a highway, which we were 
" informed was known as Waste Lane, and on private land, but close to the 
" lane was a polluted water course or ditch, about 85 yards in length. Waste 
" liquor from the tannery, and sewage from four houses were discharged 
" into this ditch at one end, and polluted it for the greater part of its length. 
" A large sewer from Cuerden Hall and four other houses, and a small 
" sewer from a house and 10 cottages, discharged sewage into this ditch at 
" the other end, and polluted it for a short distance only. The polluted 
" liquor from both ends of the ditch was received into a round tank about 
" 12 feet in diameter, and holding about a foot of liquor. This tank was 
" arched over, and difficult to obtain access to, and there was no evidence 
" that it was periodically cleansed. This tank when inspected was full of 
" an exceedingly foul semi-liquid material. At the side nearest the road 
" was a fixed weir, and over this the tank overflowed into a channel, under 
" Waste Lane, and under the Bridgewater Canal, to a brook which eventually 
" reaches the river Mersey. That the brook is polluted in this way there is 
" no doubt. 

" We next carefully inspected the tannery, being shown over it by 
" Mr. L. We noted the various processes to which the skins were 
" subjected, from the time they arrived as salted dry hides, till seven or 
" eight months later when they are finished leather. The tannery is a large 
" one, turning out as we are informed from 260 to 300 hides per week, but 
" the whole manufacture appeared to be conducted in a very cleanly manner, 
" and was as free from effluvium nuisance as any tannery I have hitherto 
" inspected. 

*' We were shown the small stream above as it reaches the tannery ; very 
" little water was coming down, and what there was was not free from 
" pollution. This water not being sufficient for the purposes of their 
" business, the Messrs. L. have a deep well, and from this they pump 
" about 11,400 gallons daily. The effluent being discharged at the time of 
" our visit was (judging by its appearance and smell) a good one for a 
" tannery, though it is probable that it would not have passed Sir H. 
" Roscoe's standard on analysis." 



" Is there an effluvium nuisance? As the result of my inspection of the 
" tannery, in company with your Committee, I am bound to say that there 
" was no effluvium nuisance created by the tannery at that time. It may be 



254 DELEPINE 

" that the tannery and its environments were in exceptionally good order, 
" and I gather from your Medical Officer's Report that on another occasion 
" ' the process of drying fleshings appeared to cause a distinct smell nuisance 
" from the tannery.' There is therefore evidence from your Medical Officer 
" of Health, as well as from the owner of Cuerden Hall, that there has been 
" ah effluvium nuisance in the past, but the fact that there was no effluvium 
" nuisance at the tannery on the afternoon of the 11th inst. indicates that 
" the business can be conducted without effluvium nuisance. 

" However, on walking along Waste Lane, bounded for 85 yards or 
" thereabouts by a ditch or watercourse, containing the tannery effluent and 
" the sewage from 20 houses or cottages, I did perceive an effluvium nuisance. 
" Is there pollution of a brook ? Obviously this question must be answered 
" in the affirmative. This little brook appears to be polluted to some extent, 
" before it reaches the tannery, and, there, is polluted by the tannery effluent, 
" and the sewage from twenty houses or cottages." 

State of the Tannery on September 6th, 1902. Dr. Yacher 
visited the tannery again on September 6th, 1902. I think it is desirable to 
quote the following passages from that Report : — 

" The County Medical Officer of Health visited Messrs. L.'s tannery, 
" Grappenhall, on September 6th, and examined the premises as he had done 
" on many previous occasions. The tannery, so far as he could judge, 
" seemed conducted in the usual way. The skins are soaked, and kept in 
" lime and water till the hair can be readily removed, the hair is then 
" scraped off, and the skins are trimmed and put in the tan pits, and when 
" the tanning is completed the skins are dried and dressed. Comparatively 
*' little effluvium was noticed, and what there was seemed similar to the 
" effluvium in other well-conducted tanneries. What is trimmed off the 
" skins is classed as * picked sizings,' ' rough sizings,' and ' fleshings.' The 
" * sizings,' after being in lime and water for many days, are dried first in 
" the open-air and then in a warm chamber, and the fleshings after being in 
" lime and water for two or three weeks, are carted away wet once or twice a 
" week. There was a little effluvium from the * fleshings,' but practically 
" none from the ' sizings.' The lime, after being drawn from the liming 
" pits, is deposited in a field near the tannery. The deposit was visited, 
" and no effluvium was noticed therefrom. 

" The Medical Officer was informed that the material used for tanning 
" alters from time to time according to prices. The materials at present in 
" use in Messrs. L.'s tannery are ' Valonia,' * Myrobolams,' oak bark, and 
" extract of bark. The Manager stated yeast had been used in the past, but 
" none had been used for fully two months. The spent tan is deposited in 
" a field about 400 yards off. This deposit was inspected, and was not 
" noticed to give rise to an effluvium nuisance." 



" The Runcorn Rural District Council have just laid a pipe sewer (2^ feet 
" in diameter) in the ditch which used to receive the effluent at the side of 
" Waste Lane. The public road will be widened and extend over this 



ALLEGED TANNERY EFFLUVIUM NUISANCE 255 

" sewer. The sewer will convey Cliff Lane Brook along Waste Lane, and 
" the contents of Mr. N.'s sewer, under the canal. A drain from the 
" tannery will discharge the tannery effluent into the sewer. On September 
" 6th the connection had not been made, but the Rural District Surveyor 
" showed the County Medical Officer where the drain would come in. 

" The Tannery Manager stated that Mr. N. and Messrs. L. had drawn 
" the attention of the Local Government Board to the alleged nuisance, but 
" that so far as he knew the Board had not investigated it. 

" Mr. N. used to reside at Cuerden Hall, in Thelwall, but has lately 
" resided in London, having, he alleges, changed his residence on account of 
" the effluvium nuisance he complains of. A ditch which used to divide 
" Grappenhall from Thelwall was converted into a pipe drain or sewer by 
" Mr. N. 

" Mr. L. states that no change has been made in his method of tanning 
" which would produce an effluvium nuisance, or poison the effluent, and 
" that the effluent has been much improved in recent years. As regards the 
" beginning of his business at Grappenhall, Mr. L. states that Mr. Leigh, 
" of Belmont, purchased the Cliff Lane Tannery in 1845 or 1846 when the 
" buildings were enlarged for Mr. L.'s father's firm. The tanyard was 
" bought of Mr. Peter Wright (and his son-in-law John Wilmot) who was 
" then 80 years old and had tanned there for many years. Mr. John N., 
" father of Mr. N., built the house known as Cuerden Hall probably about 
" 1866, when the effluent from the tannery was discharged into the brook in 
" a very crude state. Mr. N. altered and enlarged Cuerden Hall about 1893, 
" and the first intimation of complaint from him was in 1900, when he was 
" invited to call and see the arrangements then existing for clarifying the 
"effluent 

" In conclusion, the County Medical Officer of Health submits : — ■ 

" That neither on September 6tli, nor on any previous occasion when he 
" visited Messrs. L.'s tannery, was he able to detect an effluvium other 
" than that which would be produced at a tannery conducted in a proper 
" and cleanly manner." 

****** 

State of the Tannery at the End of 1902, and Begfinnin^ 
of 1903. At the time of my first visit on December 22nd (i.e., nearly four 
months after Dr. Vacher's last visit) I found that the drains from the tannery 
had been connected with the Waste Lane sewer, otherwise things were in the 
same state as on the occasion of Dr. Yacher's September visit. The plan of the 
tannery, in which I have indicated the various effluents, will show the relations 
of the parts referred to. (See Plan, p. 257). A general statement would 
add nothing to what has already been so clearly and concisely stated by 
Dr. Vaclier. I will therefore add only a few remarks regarding special points 
not mentioned in the above reports. 

I went down the manhole at the junction of the tannery drnin, and of the 
Waste Lane Sewer, which at the time of my visit had been connected, and smelt 
closely the tannery effluent, which had the usual smell of tan mixed with the 
slightly ammoniacal smell noticeable over the settling tanks. I placed my face 



256 DELEPINE 

at tlie opening of the drain from the tannery, noticed no exceptional smell, and 
suffered no bad effects from the experiment. I went down the sewer, lower 
down, at its junction with the new sewer coming down from Cuerden Hall, 
and did not notice any exceptional smell. On the occasion of my second visit I 
smelt again the tannery effluent as it entered the sewer and noticed no alteration 
in its odour. 

The tannery is provided with earth closets. I was informed that none of 
the solid excreta of the men employed at the factory pass into the sewer, they 
are disposed of on the land about. I may mention here that the only houses 
with water closets are Cuerden Hall and Millington House, and in both these 
cases the solid excreta are not at the present time allowed to pass directly into the 
sewer. 

As soak pits when improperly managed may be a source of nuisance I 
enquired specially on two different occasions as to the time the hides were 
allowed to soak. I was informed that the water was changed, and the pits 
cleaned, every other day, also that the skins were never allowed to soak for more 
than three days. The state of the water in the two pits I examined on two 
different occasions, and the examination in the laboratory of 4 samples (see 
Table I., p. 26^2) taken at various times confirmed entirely that statement. 
The smell of the soak pits, and that of the salted hides which were immersed in 
them, resembled closely that of salted fish in a good state. 

The soaked hides are left in the lime pits for 15 to 21 days. The smell of 
the lime pits cannot be well described, such a smell is always produced when 
animal matter is treated with lime, and is neither distinctly objectionable nor 
detrimental to health. The smell of pits in which skins had remained longest 
was not so strong as that of the others. Lime therefore acted as it usually does, 
i.e., as an antiputrid agent. 

Before the skins are treated the tails and other useless parts of the hidesarecut 
off, and left in barrels in the open until removed, the smell of these tails is the same 
as that of the hides. In a few cases the horns, and part of the skull are bought 
with the hides, and have also to be removed. The second time I was at the 
tannery I saw a few horns in a heap, which emitted a putrid smell. This was 
the only time I found in the yard anything having a putrid smell, and I was 
assured that the thing was quite exceptional. The amount of putrid matter 
was, however, so small that the smell was not noticeable at the distance of a 
few yards, and unless large accumulations of horns were allowed to take place 
no serious nuisance could arise from this cause. 

I smelt closely on three occasions the sizings hanging on ropes in the 
yard, and could not detect any objectionable smell. 

The fleshings were also remarkably free from any putrefactive smell. At 
the time of my second visit, there was a larger accumulation than usual, about 
18 inches deep. I had the fleshings turned over, and smelt the deepest layer 
without detecting any putrid smell. 

The hair was treated in the same way, both fleshings and hair had a slightly 
ammoniacal smell, difficult to recognise and due to the action of lime. 

The places in which these operations were conducted had the same smell as 
the lime pits. These operations, which may be strongly objectionable when 



ALLEGED TANNERY EFFLUVIUM NUISANCE 257 




Plan of the Tannery. 



258 DELEPINE 

putrefactive fermentation is allowed to take place during the previous stages, 
were at the time of my three visits conducted without producing any nuisance. 
The methods adopted at the tannery did not seem to me to allow of the possibility 
of such a nuisance being produced. 

The tan pits are entirely covered, and it is in this part of the tannery that 1 
noticed the strongest smell. But the smell was that of tan materials, and is 
quite inseparable from the tanning process. There was nothing nauseous or 
actually very unpleasant in it. I inspected a number of tan pits separately, 
and more specially those in which the strong liquors were prepared from valonia 
and gambler, and also the pits where yeast was added to the tan liquor. 

On my first visit I found that the use of yeast had been discontinued for six 
months. Mr. L. informed me that the discontinuance was not due to any 
fear on his part that a nuisance was produced by the yeast. He had some 
doubts as to the advantages of using it. Mr. Scudder thought that, this being 
the case, it would be well to discontinue it for a time. I closely questioned the 
men employed about the yeast pit as to whether they preferred the smell of the 
liquor when the yeast was used, or when it was not. They did not seem to have 
noticed much difference. About one part of strong " carbolic acid " is added to 
every 10 or 11 parts of yeast thrown into the tan liquor. 

It seemed difficult to believe that brewer's yeast added to tan liquor could be 
a source of danger to health, but in order to satisfy myself that the men had 
really experienced no inconvenience from the use of yeast, and that some 
unexpected reaction, giving rise to some bad smelling gas, did not take place, 
I asked Mr. L. to resume the use of yeast exactly as he did before June, 1902. 
This experiment I was sure would be without danger to anybody. 

I visited the tannery again one month after this, and found practically no 
difference in the smell of the tan liquor or of the tannery as a whole. On 
March 9th, i.e., more than two months after the yeast had been resumed, I 
found absolutely no alteration in the smell of the tannery. 

The effluents from the tan pits, the lime pits, and the soak pits are led to a 
Well in the yard, and the mixing of these fluids is followed by a considerable 
amount of precipitation. The mixed or crude effluent is pumped up, and led by 
an open conduit to a number of settling pits and tanks which are in the open. 
The smell of the crude effluent as it runs from the well to the settling tanks is 
not strong, it is difficult to describe it except as a mixture of the smells of tan, 
lime pits, and soaks, which have been already described, the result being a 
slightly ammoniacal, mawkish smell. The smell is not very strong, but is 
unpleasant, there is, however, nothing putrid or actually nauseous about it; I 
exposed myself repeatedly to its action without suffering from it at any time, 
and I did not notice that any of the visitors who were with me suffered in any 
respect, although I watched them closely the whole time. 

The crude effluent, after settling, is passed through two cinder filters, from 
which it escapes comparatively free from suspended matter. The smell of the 
treated effluent is more distinctly ammoniacal than that of the crude effluent; 
it is certainly not more objectionable than the smell of ordinary tannery 
effluent. 

The sludge consists of lime and organic matter more or less coloured by tan. 
This material is allowed to drain for some time in order to make its removal 



ALLEGED TANNERY EFFLUVIUM NUISANCE 259 

easier. It is then carted away to adjoining fields. There are one earth pit and 
one sludge bed in the yard where the drying process is carried out. I examined 
the lime at various depths in the sludge beds, and found it free from any strong 
or objectionable smell. I also examined a large accumulation of sludge in a 
field across Cliff Lane, and could not detect any efiluvium arising from it. 

The spent tan is heaped up for a time at the side of the tannery, and is then 
carted away to a field at a distance of 350 to 400 yards from the tannery on the 
other side of the road. This tan is used to fill up a disused pit, several 
such pits have been filled up in the same way in past years. The smell of the 
spent tan tip which I examined was that of tan; a deep hole was dug in it to 
ascertain whether putrid smells were generated in the deeper parts of this 
accumulation. At a depth of four to five feet, a stratum of dark fluid which 
had drained from the tan was reached. Some gas bubbles escaped from that 
fluid but the gas had no smell and was apparently chiefly composed of carbonic 
acid. The dark fluid was found to drain slowly into the ditch or small brook 
running in the direction of the tannery. The water and the banks of that 
brook had a dark-brown colour owing to this. 

The smell of the water of that brook resembled that of tan liquor, mixed 
with that of the decomposing vegetable matter which had fallen from the banks, 
and of drainage from manured llclds. It is probable that at times the smell of 
this brook is unpleasant owing to the accumulation of decomposing matter. If 
this be the case the banks and bed might with advantage be made more even. 
I did not, however, at the time of the two visits I paid to this brook, notice any 
smell that might fairly be called a nuisance. The turbid water from this brook 
had a dark-brown colour and an acid reaction. 

None of the tanning material used at Mr. L.'s tanneiy differed from those 
in common use in various tanneries. In the following list those which I found 
employed at this tannery are marked by the sign.* 

* Oak Bark. The bark of the British oak [Quercus robur, and other 

varieties). 

* Oak Wood Extract. 

* Valonia. \ The cups of the acorns of an evergreen oak (Quercus 

* Valonia Extract, j aegilops). 

* Myrobolams. Myrobalan, the fruit of trees of the genus T erininalia. 
Myrobalan Extract. 

Mimosa Bark. The bark of various trees of the group of Mivwsae. 

* Mimosa Extract. 

Hemlock Bark. The bark of the Hemlock Spruce (Abies canadensis). 

* Hemlock Extract. 

* Sumach. The powdered bark, etc., of the Sumach (Rhus coriaria). 
Sumach Extract. 

* Block Gambier. Obtained from the Uncaria gambier. 

All these substances are strong astringents, with well known properties, and 
incapable of producing noxious effluvia. In addition to these tannin-containing 
substances brewer s yeast and crude carbolic acid are also used in the treatment 
of the skins. I need not make any remark about carbolic acid, the use of which 
as a disinfectant and antiseptic are generally well known. 



260 DELEPINE 

With regard to yeast, however, I found it necessary to make some investiga- 
tions. I am not acquainted with any fact or scientific research which could 
justify the opinion that "yeast when mixed with the waste liquors from soak pits, 
tan pits, etc., produces an efjiuvium nuisance, having all the characters of the 
smell complained of, when let off into any tank or drain," and that yeast acted 
under those circumstances as a " septic ferment." This theory, which I heard 
and read of for the first time in Dr. Penny's report upon this tannery, seemed 
all the more strange to me because yeasts must always be present in tan liquors, 
owing to the general distribution of yeasts in nature, and specially their almost 
constant presence on the surface of barks, and fruits of various kinds. In view, 
however, of the positive statement made by Dr. Penny, I did not think it right 
to assume that he was in error without investigating the matter fully. 

1. I have already stated that I was quite unable to detect any effluvium or 
irritating vapour in connection with the yeast tan-pit, nor with the treated or 
untreated effluent into which some of the spent tan liquor found its way. I 
have incubated samples of all the fluids containing yeasts, at various tempera- 
tures up to high summer temperature, for over six weeks, and have not observed 
any generation of bad smelling gases. Carbonic acid appeared to be the only 
gas produced in any quantity. 

2. I have also been unable to detect any alteration in the smell of these 
fluids after the use of yeast had been resumed at my own request. 

3. To complete the evidence necessary to ascertain whether yeast did not 
introduce some unsuspected alterations in the tanning process, I tested by 
various methods a number of samples of tan liquors, of various effluents, of 
tanning material, etc. I also obtained from Mr. D.'s tannery where brewer's 
yeast had never been used, samples of tan liquors for comparison with the tan 
liquors obtained from Mr. L.'s tannery. The results of my examinations are 
summed up in the following table. (See Table I., p. '262.) 

From this table it will be seen that yeasts of various types were present in 
•all the tanning material and liquors examined. Many of the yeast cells were 
budding. As very little attention seems to have been paid to the presence of 
these various kinds of yeast in tan liquors, I asked Dr. Carver, senior assistant 
in my Laboratory, to isolate these yeasts and study their characters. The results 
of his observations are embodied in his report upon the subject. 

None of these yeasts grew well in animal media or produced a putrid 
fermentation giving rise to bad smelling gases. 

With regard to the nature of the gases produced I have not investigated it 
fully; but Mr. Scudder having made a number of analyses, I have summarised 
the results which he has kindly communicated to me in the following table. 
(See Table II., f. 264-.) 

From these results it appears that yeasts of various hinds are generally 
present in tan liquors and tanning jnaterial, and that these materials are all 
capable of gaseous fermentation producing inodorous, harmless gases, whether 
brewer's yeast is added to them or not. 

From Messrs. L.'s books which I was allowed to inspect, it appears that 
yeast began to be used in 1895. 

During the year 1899-1900, i.e., at the time when the diphtheria epidemic 



YEASTS IN TANNING MATERIAL 



261 



occurred, the amount of yeast used was less than half of what had heen used in 
the two previous years. 

I was informed that no important alterations had been made in the 
premises since 1895, and no new processes used, with the exception of what has 
already been mentioned in connection with yeast. 

It is generally thought that the health of men employed in carrying out a 
manufacturing process is no absolute criterion of the danger associated with 
their occupation and that they gradually acquire a certain amount of 
tolerance. It appears to me, however, that if it were true that the introduction 
of yeast in 1895 had caused a new element of danger, the men employed at the 
tannery would not have been more protected than other individuals, and if, for 
the sake of argument, it was supposed that the germs of diphtheria could be 
generated by the addition of yeast to tan liquor or tannery eflfluents, the men, 
even if protected, would have carried about with them the germs of that disease, 
and infected the young members of their families. The families living on the 
premises, or near the premises would, on such a supposition, have been specially 
liable to infection. 

In order to test whether there was any such evidence of deleterious action, I 
asked Messrs. L. to supply me with a complete list of their men, of the 
children of those that were married, and of their addresses. I also asked them 
to obtain a complete list of the children that had died in these families, their 
age at death and the supposed cause of death. 

From the documents so supplied to me I have obtained the following 
information. 

At the present time there are 54 workmen employed at the tannery. These 
men have worked in the tannery for various lengths of time. 



1 
over 1 



year or less 
year to 2 years 
years to 3 „ 

)5 5 ,, 

,, 10 „ 

)) 15 ,, 

„ 20 „ 

., 30 ,. 



2 

3 

5 
10 
15 
20 
36 years 
45 „ 
57 „ 



12 


men 


2 of them i 


5 




4 


5 




1 


4 




2 


12 




6 " 


7 




7 


1 




1 


5 




5 


1 




1 


1 




1 


1 




1 



married. 



54 men 31 married. 

None of the twelve men I questioned could remember having suffered from 
sore throat, sickness, diarrhoea, or loss of appetite on first entering the tannery. 

Twenty-six of the married men have children. During the last twelve 
years the number of persons connected with the tannery has been over 54 men, 
31 women, and 118 children. 



Deaths Occurring: among: the Children of Workmen. 

During these twelve years twelve children have died. Some of the births and 
some of the deaths occurred before the men had entered the tannery, but it is 



TABLE I. — Examination of tan liquors and various effluents 



Ref . No. Material Examined. 



Tannery. 



SmeU. 



Reaction, 



375 Brewer's yeast L. 

376 Recent tan liquor and yeast ... „ 

377 Tan liquor (7 days old) and yeast „ 

• 
406 Tan liquor and yeast „ 

379 Tan liquor, no yeast added ... „ 
405 Recent tan liquor, no yeast added „ 

409 Recent tan liquor, no yeast added D. 

410 Old tan liquor, no yeast added... ,, 

380 Liquor from soak pit, 1 day old L. 

384 „ „ 2 days old 

385 „ „ 3 days old 

381 Liquor from lime pit „ 

1-379 Tan liquor, soaks and lime „ 

380 water mixed in equal parts... 
[381 

382 Crude effluent 

•407 Crude effluent „ 

383 Settled effluent 

408 Settled effluent 



Pleasant, of fermenting Acid 

wort 

Pure tan, no putrid smell Strongly acid 

Id., slight smell, resembling 

that of phenol „ 

>» >> )• • • »> 

Pure tan smell 



Slight mawkish smell 



Strongly alkaline' 



Slightly ammoniacal ... „ 

Tan smell modified by 

others Slightly acid ..j 

Faint mawkish smell, 

slightly ammoniacal ... Strongly alkaline 



Very slight, as above 



>> jj 



I 



Tanning 



396 Valonia extract 

397 Myrobalan extract 

398 Mimosa extract 

399 Sumach extract 

400 Myrobalan, incubated in wort. 

401 Sumach „ „ 

403 Valonia „ „ 

404 Gambier „ „ 



obtained at Messrs. L.'s and Mr. D.'s Tanneries. 



Yeast found by direct observation, 
Sp. Gr. size and shape of cells. 



Production or Absorption of Smell of 
Gas on Incubation. Gas. 



— Typical yeast cells 



Abundant production (after addition 

to wort) None 



1110-1112 
1108-1110 



Abundant yeast cells of 3 different 



shapes 



Abundant production... 
Moderate production ... 



1120 

1108-1110 

1130 

1090 

1110-1112 
1010 
1034 
1034 
1012 



„ ,, 2 ,, Very abundant production 

Fairly abundant yeast cells of 3 

shapes — 

Yeast cells abundant of 3 shapes 

and sizes Scanty production 

Yeast cells of 1 shape, various sizes Abundant production 



No yeast found 
Very few yeast cells . . . 



1049 Various yeasts fairly abundant 



None 

,, ... 

Gas absorbed 



Scanty production of gas, followed 
by absorption 



None 



None 



1023 Yeast cells few 

1018 Yeast cells, few and small ... 

1011 Yeast cells, few, small, 2 shapes 
1007 ( ? ) 



Gas absorbed 



Materials. 



Yeast cells scanty, 2 shapes and sizes 
Yeast cells abundant, 3 shapes 



— Yeast cells scanty, 2 shapes 



Gas produced 



None 



264 



DELEPINE 



a 

C 

•-) <-> 

C 



u3 



O 



(A 

(4 0) 

Pi 

B 

tn 
tn 

< 



d 
o 

u 

•a 
o 

u 






1 




0000 







0000 







0000 





a 


0000 





Percentage Composi- 
tion of Air at End of 
Experiment. 


d 



24-60 
22-50 
0-40 
0-0 
0-0 
2-00 


7-04 
11-40 


d 


10-90 
11-50 
19-20 
18-40 
14-40 
17-20 




05 '*- 

CO CO 
1— ( I— 1 


^ 


64-50 

66-0 

80-40 

81-60 

85-60 

80-80 


76-06 
72-20 


s 

Eh 


d 


ko •" ^ s s r 

1— 1 




S 


;;:;;; :j :; 

to 


10 - 


Duration 

of 
Experi- 
ment. 


00 

^ . . . . . 

n2 


00 


■-*3 
C 


•SO 

-5d 


000000 
eo ^ 10 t- (M CO 



t- 
CI (M 


■30 
So 


000000 
000000 

C^l <M (M (M <M (M 





1 

E- 
'a 

1 


1 




1. Tan liquor without yeast or carbolic acid. . . 

2. Tan liquor + 2 grammes yeast 

3. Liquor from soakpit + 2 grammes yeast... 

4. Limepit liquor + 2 grammes yeast 

5. Crude effluent + 2 grammes yeast 

6. Settled effluent + 2 grammes yeast 


7. Tan liquor without yeast or carbolic acid. . . 

8. Tan liquor + 2*5 grammes yeast 



HEALTH OF TANNERS 



265 



difficult to allow accurately for these (three of the deaths at least occurred 
before the father liad begun working at the tannery). The following table 
gives the causes of death among the children and approximately the distance of 
their dwellings from the tannery : — 
A. — Families living on the spot or across the road. 



No. of 
families. 


Ko. of 
cliildren. 


Deaths 
since 1890. 


Age at 
death. 


Reported 
cause of death. 


Year of 
death. 


4 


16 


1 


3^ years 


Hypertrophy of tonsils, 
adenoid dis. of naso- 
pharynx. Ulceration of 
larynx. Operation (for 
adenoids) 1 month before 
death. — 

(From Death Certificate). 


Nov. 

1899. 



B. — Families living within \ mile (mostly ^ mile). 
6 29 — 



C. 



-Families living between \ and 1 mile (mostly \ mile). 
6 32 5 in 2 fS^ TA few days Weakness, 



families 
(a and U) 



j5 ^ , 1 2 months 



Measles. 
Gastro-enteritis 
Weakness 
Convulsions 



D. — Families living over 1 mile (mostly 2 miles (Lymm)). 



10 



41 



6 in 3 

families 

{a, b, &, c) 



Convulsions 

After vaccination (cause T) 

Weakness 

J} 
Convulsions 



1891, 
1898. 
1900. 
1901. 
1891. 



I 4 months 
'I 8 „ 

, nS months 
(l\ months 

n? „ 

From this summary it appears that all the deaths occurred in six families 
out of twenty-six, and that the deaths were fairly equally divided among the 
twelve years, 

1 in 1890 1 in 1896 



1891. 
1899, 

1890. 
1895. 
1894. 
1896. 



1891 
1894 
1895 



1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 



6 6 

A further analysis shows that seven deaths only occurred during twelve 
years among seventy-two children who were young enougli to be easily aifected 
by infectious germs, a mortality which is much below the average mortality 
among children. These deaths all occurred in three families only. There is 
therefore no evidence of any deleterious influence existing at the tannery since 
1895, nor at any time since 1890. 



266 DELEPINE 

Only three adults have died since 1895. 

[a) A man, aged 82, who died in 1901, after working 50 years at the 

tannery. 
(6) A wife, aged 80, who died from the effects of a severe burn. 
(c) A wife, of consumption. 
(I understand that there has been no report of death among the men who 
have left the tannery, i.e., within a few months of their departure). 

Bacteriologrical Examination of the Throat of Workmen. 

To complete the above evidence I examined bacteriologically the throat of seven 
of the workmen in case some evidence of possible infection had been over-looked. 
I selected these seven men as they were leaving the tannery, and after cultiva- 
tion of the secretions obtained from their throats found no evidence whatever 
of diphtheria bacilli nor of any other unusual bacteria. 

Watching' the Tannery at Night. I have received several 
letters stating positively that effluvia arose from the tannery mostly in the 
middle of the night, and on my discussing with Dr. Yacher the advisability of 
obtaining evidence on this point, he informed me that he had already 
done so, and has allowed me to state that during the month of December, 1902, 
he had the tannery watched night and day by an absolutely reliable person upon 
twenty different occasions. The watcher reported that upon each occasion he 
had failed to detect any disagreeable smell beyond the ordinary tannery smell. 

Summary of Report upon the ClifT Lane Tannery. 

1. There is no evidence of any effluvium being generated at the tannery, 
nor by the effluent from the tannery. 

2. There is no evidence of any unusual process being employed at the tannery, 
with the exception of the use of yeast, which began in 1895. As yeasts are 
naturally present in all tan liquors and materials, the addition of yeast does not 
seem to be material, at any rate, it does not produce any nuisance. 

3. There is no evidence of any excessive amount of illness among Messrs. 
L.'s employes, on the contrary, the amount of illness and death among these 
people during the last 12 years has been very small. I find no evidence that 
the introduction of yeast in 1895 has had any effect upon their health. 

4. There is nothing in the tanning processes used at the tannery that could 
give rise to an outbreak of diphheria. 

5. The tannery is well conducted and clean. Considerable trouble is taken 
to treat the effluent so as to diminish as far as possible the smell which is 
necessarily connected with tanning. 

6. I am convinced that there can be no connection whatever between the 
tannery and the outbreak of diphtheria which has afflicted Thelwall. 




Spot-Map shewing part of Thelwall adjoining the Tannery. 

The houses are outlined only. The houses in which Diphtheria occurred are in black. The numbers 
adjacent to the Diphtheria houses indicate the order in which the cases occurred. They correspond to tlie 
numbers given to the notified cases in the text, p. 22. 

A, Cliff Lane Tannery ; B, Cuerden Hall ; C, the Coach House ; D, the Lodge ; E, Opjmsite the 
Temperance Hall in Anderton Place ; F, Waste Lane ; G, Canal ; H, Knutsford Road or (Cliff lane) ; 
K, Tannery brook or Cliff Lane Brook ; L, Boundary Brook ; M, Manured fields, also indicated by XX ; 
N, Spent tan ; O, Lime and sludge ; 



268 



HEALTH OF TANNERS 



III. NATUEE OF THE OUTBREAK OF DISEASE AT THELWALL 

in 1899—1900—1901 and 1902. 



Extent of the Outbreak. The extent and severity of tins outbreak 
can be gathered from the following tabulated statements prepared after con- 
sultation of official documents, and visits to the various families affected : — 

A. Cases of Diphtheria or "Diphtheritic Throat" which had occurred within 
a radius of 1 mile around the Tannery, and had been certified to the Medical 
Officer of Health* 

Date. Name of deceased. Address. 

1. Dec. 29th, Emma Scarle The Lodge, Cuerden Hall 
1899 (Taken ill, December 18th) 



2. Dec. 29th, Quennell Anderton Place 

1899 (Taken ill, December 25th) 

3. Dec. 30th, Cissy Hewitt, Anderton Place 

1899 

4. „ Edith „ 

5. Jan. 5th, Lucy Leah 

1900 

6. „ G. Leah 

7. „ ( - ) Vickers 

8. „ ( - ) » 
[9. Feb. 11th, ( - ) Rigby 

1900 
[10. 
til. 

[13. 

14. 



The Stables, Cuerden Hall 

jj >> 

Caretaker, Temperance Hall 

>> >> 

Near Ship Canal, Grappenhall 



Feb. 12th, „ 

1900 
Nov. 3rd, ( - ) Ellison 

1900 
Feb. 24th, R. Vickers 



Near Schools, Thelwall 



Caretaker, Temperance Hall, Thelwall 
1901 (Taken ill, February 16th) 

15. Mar. 2nd, B. Vickers Caretaker, Temperance Hall, Thelwall 

1901 (Taken ill, March 1st) 

0. Vickers Caretaker, Temperance Hall, Thelwall 

(Taken ill, March 9th) 

Mrs. Vickers Caretaker, Temperance Hall, Thelwall 



16. 
17 



Mar. 6th, 

1901 
Mar. 8th, 
1901 
[18. April, 
1901 
1 9. August, 

1902 
20. 



( - ) Allan At Ferry's Cottage 

May Leah The Stables, Cuerden Hall 

(Taken ill, August 1st) 

Mary Scarle The Lodge, Cuerden Hall 



Certification. 

Diphtheria 
notified as 
Diphtheritic 
sore throat. 



Diphtheria 



»] 



»] 



*The numbers on left side refer to the spot-map, part of which is 
reproduced in this report. Cases within brackets were unconnected with 
the outbreak near the Tannery. 



THELWALL OUTBREAK OF DIPHTHERIA 



269 



B. Copies of the Entries in the Health Register of the persons who had died 
in the neighbourhood of the Tannery since the beginning of the outbreak. 



Date. 


Name of deceased. Age. 


Dec. 25th, 


F. Hewitt ^ 


1899 




[Dec. 27th, 


F. J. Tighe (Mrs. 4 
Tighe is daughter 
to Mr. Scarle.) 


Jan. 6th 
Jan. 10th, 


(Taken ill, Dec. 17th, 1899) 
Lucy Leah 4 
(Taken ill, about Jan. 4th) 1 
G. Leah 7 


1900 
Feb. 27th, 


(Taken ill,about Jan. 5th) 1 
R. J. Vickers 5 


1901 
Mar. 9th, 


(Taken ill, Feb. 16th) 
Bertie Vickers H 


1901 
Aug. 15th, 
1902 


(Taken ill, March 4th) " 
May Leah 2 
(Taken ill, August 1st) 



Address. 

Anderton Place, Thelwall 

Church Street, Altrincham 
(Child had been staying 
from Dec. 14th to Dec. 19 
with Mrs. Scarle.) 

The Stables, Cuerden Hall 



Waste Lane 



The Stables, Cuerden Hall 



Certification. 

Bronchitis, 

• Croup. 

Laryngitis.] 

Oase added here 
for reference. 

Diphtheria. 



Diphtheria, 
Meningitis. 
Diphtheria. 



General State of Health of the Locality. Tlielwall is composed 

of a number of dwellings scattered over a large area. There are, however, two 
distinct groups of houses, a larger one on the banks of the Ship Canal, and a 
smaller one about the tannery. 

If diphtheria be excluded, Thelwall and Grappenhall have been during the 
last eight years remarkably free from notifiable infectious diseases. The total 
number of cases, including diphtheria, occurring in Grappenhall (population 
987) in the eight years since 1895 being 16, of which 3 were due to diphtheria 
and 13 to other diseases. 

The total number of cases of notifiable infectious diseases occurring in 
Thelwall (population 481) was during the same time 22, of which 17 were 
attributable to diphtheria, and 5 to other diseases. If, therefore, diphtheria be 
excluded Thelwall appears to have been proportionately freer from infectious 
diseases than Grappenhall (I will show later that Grappenhall itself was much 
more healthy than many other localities in the district). All the cases of 
diphtheria occurred in Thelwall since the end of 1899. It is, therefore, 
entirely to diphtheria that the excess of disease which has occurred during that 
period is due. 

Incidence of Infectious Diseases in Thelwall and other 

localities compared. A severe outbreak of diphtheria occurring among 
a small community may be attributed to several causes, the most important and 
probable of which is the importation of diphtheria from outside, either by a 
resident or by a visitor. In addition to this, a locality may become specially 
affected owing to predisposing conditions rendering the inhabitants more liable 
to the disease than average individuals. In order to find out if there had been 
serious chances of importation, and, if the inhabitants of Thelwall were specially 



TABLE III. 



Aston 

Aston Grange „ 

Clifton 

Halton ._ 

Norton ... 

Stockliam 

Sutton „ 

Weston 

Alvaiiley 

FroJsliani 

Fiodsliain Loid.-liip 

Helsby 

Kingslcy 

Kingswood 

Manlcy 

^fcwto^-by-Fl■od5llam 

Norley 

Acton Grange 

Antrgbus 

•Applcton 

Bartington 

Budwortb 

Crowley 

Daresbury 

Dutton 

Hatton 

Keckvick 

Moore 

Newton-'by-Daresbury 

Preslon-o'-the-Hill 

Seven Oak» 

Slrelton .. 

Walton Inferior 

Walton Sujwrior — 

Whitley Inferior 

Whitley Superior... . 

Orappenhall ,. .. . 

Thelwall 

Latchford Without 

•Stockton Heath 

Totals foi each \ car 
Fatal Caaen 



2M) 

3i 

215 

l..i.5.i 

430 

*7 

471 

2.222 

1 .Jl:i 

l,l-.4 

I. Ill 

2.33 

29ii 

lOG 

42.i 
2.7.'i!l 
s:i 
.ilO 
\'.H) 
190 
41 fi 
327 



:i>t6 
42.V 
22 i 
20.=. 



190! ToUl tHph 



40 

2I.T 

1,238 

29-4 

38 



4()i 
2.l)7.) 

319"" 
2,728 
l,t()3 
I,.-.--' 



1.30 

(i.ili 
144 
373 
744 

7.-) 

47i; 

182 
1.53 
42« 
319 
(i.5 
400 
169 
4.54 
lb2 
31(1 
719 
21.5 



ToMl Uiph. 



12 



14 



30 



TuUl l)i|.li 



Tol»l Ui|,li. 



1 
1 

15 

5 
1 

2 



17 

245 



33 
I2«4 



2 
28.5 



l<.>OI. bUK:kiuii llrall, ti iu> included ID Ap|>letuD 



Till- UUck Fii*urts itidic&lc iipecial iucidcuce ot Diplithcna 



THELWALL OUTBREAK OF DIPHTHEEIA 271 

liable to infection, I have prepared, on the basis of Dr. Adams' annual reports, 
a table indicating (1) the total number of cases of illness attributable to 
notifiable infectious diseases, (2) the number of cases notified as having been 
affected with diphtheria, (3) the population in 1891 and 1901 in each one of the 
localities included in the Rural District of Runcorn. (See 7' able III.) 

The figures indicating that the incidence rate of diphtheria in any year has 
been excessive are in black figures. 

From this table it will be seen that several places too distant from the 
tannery to be influenced by it, have, during the last eight years, suffered from 
Diphtheria as much as, or more than, Thelwall. 

These places are Clifton (1897), Halton (1898-99), Sutton 1896), Alvanley 
(1896), Frodsham (1901), Newton-by-Frodsham (1895), Whitley Inferior (1897). 
It will be noticed that before and during the epidemic at Thelwall many places 
in the district had an unusual amount of diphtheria. The table also shows 
that the total amount of notifiable infectious illness at Thelwall and Grappenhall 
since 1895 was below the average of the district. 

Possible Sources of the Outbreak of Diphtheria at 
Thelwall. There remains to account for the appearance of diphtheria in 
the houses at Anderton Place (Waste Lane) and at the stables, Cuerden Hall. 

The points which seemed to have attracted attention chiefly were, according 
to the documents in my possession and the opinions which I have heard 
expressed : — 

1. That these houses were exposed to the smells emanating from the tannery, 
and which are carried over Cuerden Hall and Anderton Place when the wind 
is in the south-western direction. 

2. That the persons affected were all living in houses connected with a 
defective sewer. 

Both statements are correct, there is no doubt that the smell of the tannery 
can be recognised at times over the greater part of the area aft'ected. It is also 
certain that the system of drainage and sewerage was extremely deficient. It 
is unnecessary for me to deal here with the sewerage question which has been 
reported upon by the Medical Officer of Health, the Rural District Surveyor, 
and others. (See Dr. Vache/s 1st report, p. 353). 

3. There is a third possible factor which I think deserves of very special 
attention, and that is the importation of diphtheria into one of the families 
living along Waste Lane, and its spread from individual to individual. 

I have already given a full account of my investigation of the tannery, and 
the entire absence of any evidence pointing to the tannery as a possible source 
of diphtheria. I feel absolutely certain that there was nothing in the tannery 
capable of causing diphtheria, or of predisposing to that disease. 

Opinions are divided regarding the share which scwcr gas has in the 
production of diphtheria. The only evidence deserving of credence which has 
been obtained on this point tends only to show that sewer gas may predispose 
to attacks of sore throat. Ordinary sewage does not contain the germs of 
diphtheria, and could only contain virulent diphtheria bacilli if these had been 
introduced into it by discharges coming from persons already affected with 
diphtheria. In my opinion, therefore, the bad state of the sewer, even when 



272 DELEPINE 

tlie ditch and cesspool along Waste Lane were still in existence, is not sufficient 
to explain the appearance of diphtheria in the locality. 

Was Diphtheria introduced from outside? Ko case of 
diphtheria was notified during the years 1895, 1896, 1897, 1898, and up to 
December, 1899, as having occurred in Thelwall. That this was not the result 
of errors of diagnosis is shown by the fact that during the same four years only 
two cases of infectious disease had been notified, both occurring in 1897. 

No evidence of any unusual deleterious influence being at work before 1899 
can be found in statistical returns. 

This almost complete absence of infectious diseases was suddenly followed 
by an explosive outbreak, affecting nine children in the course of two weeks. 
To these local children must be added a grand-daughter of Mr. Scarle 
who was staying from the 14th to the 19th of December at the Lodge, 
and who died of " Laryngitis " at Altrincham, on December 27th. These 
children belonged to the following families : Scarle, 2 ; Hewitt, 3 ; Quennell, 1 ; 
Yickers, 2; Leah, 2. All these people were in the habit of meeting each other 
at the Temperance Hall. There were special meetings for children on the 
Mondays, parents and children met on the Sundays. They also met sometimes 
during the week. 

Of the children affected, the one who seevis to have been the first taken ill, 
and who was the second to die, was a little girl, Florence Jessie Tighe, aged 4, 
granddaughter of Mr. Scarle. Mrs. Tighe had come for a visit to the Lodge, 
Cuerden Hall, on Thursday, December 14th, 1899. The child is said to have 
been then apparently in good health. It appears from what Miss Mary Scarle 
told me, that Florence Tighe was much with Emma Scarle. 

On Sunday, December 17th, the child was distinctly out of sorts, on Monday 
the 18th, she had to be kept in bed, on that day Emma vScarle became ill, and 
her case was notified as one of diphtheritic sore throat. Mrs. Tighe returned 
to Altrincham on Tuesday, December 19th, and her child died on the 27th, 
her death being given in the Death Certificate as due to " laryngitis." 

The child Florence was, according to Miss Scarle, well till the Sunday, she 
then became feverish (the mother states that the skin of the child was very hot 
and dry). Florence was dressed on Monday morning by Emma Scarle, who 
carried her downstairs and nursed her, but the child was too ill to sit up and 
had to be taken back to bed. On Tuesday morning the child looked better and 
was taken back to Altrincham.* 

Judging by the course followed by the illness, which I have purposely 
given in detail, it is impossible to state positively whether the child was already 
ill or not before arriving at the Lodge. The period of incubation of diphtheria 

* The illness continued to the last to have an insidious course. Monday and Tuesday, the 
little patient suffered from severe headache ; Wednesday, she was better and allowed to get up ; 
Thursday, not so well and kept in bed ; Friday, better and got up ; Saturday, scarlet fever sus- 
pected ; Sunday, kept in bed ; Monday, child very quiet, not complaining of any pain ; Tuesday, 
same state, the mother " suspected " that the throat was bad ; Wednesday, same state, but child 
obviously very weak and exhausted. Doctor diagnosed croup and ordered usual treatment. The 
child died soon after the doctor's visit. (December 27). 



THELWALL OUTBREAK OF DIPHTHERIA 273 

is very variable, it may last only one or two days or extend over a week. The 
child is said to have been well for two whole days after reaching the Lodge. 
On the supposition that the incubation period had been a short one, the disease 
might have been contracted at Altrincham, during the journey, or at Thelwall. 
It is, however, remarkable that no child was known to be suffering from 
diphtheria at Thelwall before Florence Tiglie came, and that four days after 
her arrival Emma Scarle who had nursed her became affected with diphtheria. 
F. Hewitt was 11 months of age, big and fat, and still breast-fed. It had 
never been away from home. It was taken to a tea-party at the Temperance 
Hall, on Thursday, the 21st of December, and died on the 25th. The 
child had been ill from bronchitis before going to the party, but was not 
seriously ill. On the 24tli it became suddenly much worse. Mrs. Hewitt 
was on friendly terms with the Scarle's and the Quennells. The Quennells 
appear to be on friendly relations with the vScarles, and a son of the Quennells 
was notified as suffering from diphtheria on December 29th. I am informed 
that he was taken ill on December 25tli. 

On the supposition that Florence Tighe brought diphtheria to Thelwall, the 
occurrence of the other cases is quite easy to explain. 

On the other hand, it may be argued that Emma Scarle or the Hewitt baby 
were previously ill, and that Florence Tighe was infected by one of these. All 
the evidence I have obtained points in the opposite direction. 

Whether, however, diphtheria was brought or not to Thelwall by Florence 
Tighe, all the facts indicate its introduction from outside. 

After the first sharp outbreak which affected five families, the disease seems 
to have remained confined to three families, e.g., the Scarles, the Lealis, and 
the Yickers. Mr. Vickers is caretaker of the Temperance Hall, where many 
meetings were taking place at the time of the beginning of the outbreak (week 
before Christmas) and his family was severely affected. 

Regarding the continuance of the disease from year to year, the probable 
explanation is that the patients' rooms and their contents had become infected. 
This explanation is in perfect accordance with well-known facts. Active bacilli 
may persist for more than two months in the nose of patients who have suffered 
from diphtheria. It is also well known that diphtheria bacilli may be present 
in the throat of persons who have been exposed to infection, without giving 
rise to a typical attack of the disease and sometimes even without giving rise to 
any disease at all. In addition to all this it is also recorded that diphtheritic 
products, when they have been allowed to dry, may retain their virulence for 
months and even more than a year (Heubner, Proust, Traite irUygicnc, Paris, 
1902, i., 159), and render rooms, in which patients affected with diphtheria 
have lived, infections for many months. 

I was specially struck by the fact that Leah's children all slept in two small 
rooms communicating through a small landing, and that the three children lost 
by him had all died in the same room. 

It will be noticed that the same continuance of diphtheria for a certain 
number of years in one place is not special to Thelwall. It is sufficient to 
glance at the table of notified cases of diphtheria in the various localities 
comprised in the Runcorn Rural District to see that when once diphtheria has 



274 DELEPINE 

been introduced into a small locality it has a tendency to persist for several 
years in that place. 

I conclude from the above evidence that the Thelwall diphtheria outbreak 
was in all probability the result of infection brought to the locality by a 
diseased person, probably Florence Tighe. 

In this abstract I have not thought it necessary to give a detailed list of all 
the documents consulted, nor any detailed account of the procedure adopted in 
conducting the investigation. This information will be found in the original 
report to the Council of the Rural District of Runcorn. It is, however, my 
pleasant duty to acknowledge the assistance I have invariably received from 
Dr. J. Adams during my enquiries. 



IV. CONCLUSIONS. 

1st. I can find no evidence of Messrs. L. & Sons' tannery having been at 
any time since 1900 a danger to the health of people living in neighbouring 
houses. 

2nd. I can find no evidence of the use at the tannery of any process capable 
of generating a dangerous effluvium. The tannery is well conducted and every 
reasonable care is taken to purify the effluent. 

3rd. I have been unable to detect any general nuisance at the time of any 
of my visits. I noticed, however, that a bad smell might arise at times from 
horns and bones, if ever allowed to accumulate to any large extent. 

4th. From the evidence I have obtained, I think it most probable that a 
nuisance did actually occur at times, before the open ditch and the cesspool 
along Waste Lane had been converted into a well constructed sewer. The 
stench arising from this open sewer and partly covered cesspool was certainly 
in part due to sewage. The mixture of tan smell with that of putrid organic 
matter may have given rise to the honest belief that the smell arose from the 
tannery. 

5th. The sanitary measures taken by the Runcorn District Council with 
regard to sewerage are, in my opinion, sufficient to remove the nuisance men- 
tioned under 4 (it may, however, become necessary to improve the brick sewer 
under the road and canal if there is any evidence of deposit). The soil on the 
sides of the ditch and of the old sewer had, however, been so saturated with 
decomposing organic matter, that entire disappearance of the smell resulting 
from this may not be complete at once. 

6th. I am convinced that the severe outbreak of diphtheria, which has 
afflicted Thelwall since 1899, was originally the result of infection imported 
from outside. I would recommend a very thorough disinfection of the five 
houses in which cases of diphtheria have occurred, also a thorough inspection of 
the throats of the inhabitants, followed by disinfection of the throat and nose 
of any suspicious case. 

7th. It is obvious that the smell of a tannery is not pleasant, and may be 
very disagreeable to persons living in the neighbourhood. Whether such a 
smell, when not proved to be noxious, constitutes a nuisance against which 



ADDENDUM 



275 



persons coming to live near a pre-existing tannery have a remedy, is question 
of common law, which is entirely outside the province of public health. 

February, 1903. 

Nearly a year having elapsed since the completion of the report, it is now 
possible to test the accuracy of the conclusions arrived at, in the light of the 
experience gained during the year 1903. Dr. Adams has kindly written to me 
the following letter in answer to my enquiries : — 

January 23rd, 1904. 
" Dear Professor Delepine, — 

" I enclose on separate sheets, the cases for comparison with Table III. 
" of your Eeport. {Seep. 276.) 

" In accordance with recommendations in your Report, I made house-to- 
" house visitation of the premises mentioned therein, for the purpose of 
" throat examination, etc. I succeeded in obtaining swabs from the throats 
" of Emily Quennel, Emma Scarle and Ethel Yickers, on July 16th and 15th, 

" which were examined and reported on by you.* J. Leah flatly 

" refused to allow his children's throats to be touched in any way 

" All the affected houses were thoroughly disinfected with formalin 
" spray. 

"I have just heard from the surveyor in reply to my enquiries; he 
" writes : — ' I believe the sewers are all working well, and I have not heard 
" ' of any complaints.' 

" Joseph Adams, Medical Officer of Health.'^ 



From the data furnished at various times by Dr. J. 
constructed the following short tables : — 



Adams I have 



Cases of notifiable Infectious Diseases reported to the Medical Officer 
OF Health of the Eural District of Euncorn. 



Place 



Whole district, population 
23,203 (1901 census) 



Thelwall, population 
(1901 census) 



481 



Years 


Total No, of Cases 


No. of Cases of 
Diphtheria 




Actual 
Number 


Per- 

centage 


Actual 
Number 


Per- 
centage 


8 years (1895-1902) 

yearly average 

1902 


158 
226 


0-67 
0-97 


35-6 
35 


015 
015 


1903 


88 


0-38 


28 


0-12 


8 years (1895-1902) 
yearly average 
1901 


2-7 
6 


0-56 
1-23 


21 

6 


0-41 
1-23 


1902 


2 


0-41 


2 


0-41 



1903 



2 0-41 



0-00 



These figures show that during the year 1903 the incidence of cases of 
infectious diseases was below the yearly average for the previous 
8 years, both in Thelwall itself and in the whole district. As during the year 

* The results of these examinations were as follows :— A. E. Quennel, wt 11, no diphtheria bacilli found ; Kmnia Scarle, 
Ki 17, no diphtheria bacilli found ; Ethel Vickers, set 11, diphtheria bacilli, long and short, present, but not virulent. 



276 



ADDENDUM. 



1903 tlie number of cases notified in the whole district was below the average, 
it is well to note that notwithstanding this general improvement there are 
some localities in which an increased incidence of Diphtheria was observed. 





Total Cases 
Percentage 


Cases of Diphtheria 
Percentage 


8 years 
average 


1903 


8 years 
average 


1903 


T5? 


... 'FeT . 


.. 'FST ... 


0-56 


0-72 


... 2-61 . 


.. 000 ... 


2-00 


0-36 


... 0-83 . 


.. 006 ... 


0-55 



Halton, population 1,238 

Daresbury, population 153 
Walton Inferior, population 719 

Every fact observed during the year 1903 seems, therefore, to indicate that 
the conclusions arrived at with regard to the cause of the Thelwall outbreak 
were correct, and that the locality was not under the influence of specially 
noxious effluvia but had simply suffered from the effects of a contagious disease 
imported into it. 

February, 1904. S. D. 



Notified Cases of Diphtheria, Scarlet Fever, Typhoid 

Erysipelas, in 1903. 



Place. 

Aston 

Aston Grange 

Clifton 

Halton 

Stockham 

Sutton 

Weston 

Alvanley 

Frodsham 

Frodsham Lordship 

Kingsley 

Newton-by-Frodsham 

Norley 

Acton Grange ... 

Antrobus 

Appleton 

Budworth 

Daresbury 

Hatton 

Moore 

Newton-by-Daresbury 
Preston-o'th'-Hill 
Walton Inferior. . . 

„ Superior 
Whitley 
Grappenhall 

Thelwall 

Latchford Without 
Stockton Heath . . . 



Total. 
1 
1 



1 

1 
10 

9 
3 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
4 
2 
3 
3 
2 
6 
1 
3 
3 
2 
1 
16 



Fever and 
Diphtheria. 



Names omitted = No case notified. 



J. Adams. 



The Characters of the Yeasts Occur- 
ring in Tanning Materials and in 
Tannery Liquors and Effluents. 



BY 



J. R. CARVER, M.D., D.P.H., 

Assistant in the Public Health Laboratory, Manchester. 



The Characters of the Yeasts Occurring in 
Tanning Materials and in Tannery Liquors 
and Effluents. 



Introduction. 

The following observations were made at the request of Professor Delepine. 
In the course of an investigation upon the possible relations between the use of 
brewer's yeast in a tannery and the production of noxious gases, he ascertained 
that various yeasts were present in all the materials used in two tanneries as 
well as in all the liquors and effluents; and that the fermentations to which 
they gave rise were not accompanied by the generation of noxious gases. (See 
Report upon an alleged effluvium nuisance, etc., (p. 251). 
The object of my investigation was : — 

1. To ascertain whether the various forms of yeast cells observed by 
Professor Delepine belonged to separate kinds of races of yeasts having distinct 
cultural characters or properties. 

2. To determine the characters of the yeasts which could be isolated from 
the various tanning materials, liquors and effluents. 

3. To ascertain, if possible whether yeasts played any useful part in the 
tanning processes. 

Occurrence of Yeasts in Tanning: iVIaterials, etc. First 
of all I give a list of the various samples submitted to me for examination, and 
the results of my first rough examination for the presence of yeasts and 
attempts to isolate and cultivate them. 



No. Nature of sample. 

375 Brewers' yeast 

376 Recent tan liquor and brewers' yeast 

377 Same (7 days old) 

379 Tan liquor, without added yeast 

381 Liquor from lime pits 

382 Crude effluent 

383 Settled effluent 
385 Soaks (3 days old) 

396 Valonia extract 

397 Myrabolam extract 

398 Mimosa extract 

399 Sumach extract 
401 Sumach powder 

403 Valonia cups 

404 Block GamTbier 

405 Recent tan liquor 

406 Tan liquor and brewers' yeast 

407 Crude effluent 

408 Settled effluent 

409 Recent tan liquor, D. 

410 Old tan liquor, D. 
444 Waste tan 



Yeasts seen by 
Microscope. 

Abundant 

Many 

Many 

Many 

Few 

Many varieties 

Few 

Many 

Few 

Several varieties 

Few 

Few 



Several varieties 

Several varieties 

Several varieties 

Several varieties 

Few 

Few 

Many varieties 



Yeast isolated. 

Nearly pure growth 

None (seen on culture) 

None 

One variety 

One variety 

None 

None 

None 

One variety 

No growtli 

One variety 

No growth 

One variety 

One variety 

One variety 

One variety 

One variety 

None 

None 

One variety 

One variety 

4 varieties 



280 CARVER 

These samples were the same as those collected by or for Professor Delepine, 
who handed them over to me. (For fuller details about materials see his own 
report). 

Thus, out of 22 saanples examined, yeasts were seen in all of them, but 
were isolated and cultivated from 13 only. In two of the thick, concentrated 
extracts, no growth at all could be obtained. It will be seen that with these 
two exceptions yeasts were grown from all the tannery materials (in 376 one 
was isolated but accidentally lost) ; but in all the waste materials with one 
exception. No. 381, where the yeast may have been of atmospherical origin, no 
yeast was isolated, owing to the great number of other organisms present. 

Methods of Investig^ation. The first method used in attempting 
to isolate the yeasts was to make successive strokes on a large disc of sterilised 
potato in a Petri capsule, so as to obtain isolated colonies ; these were incubated 
at various temperatures. This method was not very satisfactory, as the yeast 
colony on potato is not very characteristic, and when small is almost invisible. 
Later I made plates of wort-gelatin 10 per cent., and incubated at 22°, and 
I found that on this medium the yeast colonies are fairly characteristic and 
could be made out even when quite small. 

A rapid microscopical examination of the various materials showed that all 
the yeasts were not of the same size and shape, and this was confirmed when the 
yeasts were isolated and pure cultures obtained. 

Determination of the Kinds of Yeasts. We are met with the 

difl&culty of there being no complete classification based on morphological and 
structural characters; most of the work on the subject has been done in 
connection with brewery yeasts under the lead of Hansen's classical work. 
Hansen divides the yeasts occurring in the brewery into three great classes, 
to which he gives the names adopted by Reess : — 

1. Saccharomyces, Cerevisiae, 

2. „ EUipsoideus, 

3. „ Pastorianus, 

the first being the true brewing yeast while the others are the so-called "wild 
yeasts" which are injurious to the beer. Hansen declares that it is impossible 
to classify these brewing yeasts by their morphology and characters of growth 
in different media and at different temperatures. He proceeds by first 
producing cultures from single cells and distinguishes yeasts by their power 
of forming surface films on wort in a certain number of days and of forming 
endospores at different temperatures. Joergensen, on the basis of Hansen's 
researches gives 27 to 30 kinds of yeasts. 

I had thought at first that it might be possible to differentiate the yeasts 
by the appearance of their colonies in plate cultures, but this has been found 
impossible except in two or three cases, as nearly all of them have the same 
appearance, colonies of various sizes being spheiical with a smooth outline and 
colour varying from white to brown. Some of the surface colonies Nos. 403 



YEASTS IN TANNING MATERIALS 281 

and 406 had a tendency to form a fringed outline ; and tlie red yeasts produce 
characteristic pigment. The oidium No. 444a formed a very characteristic 
colony of stellate appearance, looking to the naked eye like a small mould. 

In well-grown cultures, on the surface of wort-gelatin and other media, there 
is an obvious broad division of the yeasts into three groups : — 

1. Those forming a dry, hard growth, which is very difficult to remove with 
the needle, the cells seem to be cohesive, and this gives a hard, granular 
appearance to cover glass films. 

2. Those forming a soft, moist growth, with gradual liquefaction of gelatin 
media. 

3. Those producing a characteristic pigment. 

There also appears to be striking differences in the power of fermenting 
glucose and in the growth at different temperatures. 

The yeasts have grown well in all the usual laboratory media, and the most 
favourable temperature appears to be about 26°C. I have found wort-gelatin 
10 per cent, to be the best medium, there is good growth in liquid wort, 
and in this certain differences may be noticed : — 

1. The surface growth or formation of a film. 

2. Alcoholic fermentation. 

3. Sour or acetic fermentation. 

MorpholOgfica,! Characters. I now come to a more detailed 

description of the different types. Some of the yeasts isolated from different 
materials are evidently identical, such as 409 and 410 from two tan liquors in 
Mr. D.'s tannery, and 381 and 344c, the pink yeasts. Some others which 
appeared different at first have approached a common type in later cultures and 
have been classed together. It must be noticed that in all the yeast cultures 
we see cells which are exceptions to the general type of cell found, to which the 
description applies. These types are as follows : — 

Type No. Material, Description. 

A 375 Brewers' yeast (fig. 1 in plate) Large round and oval cells 

B 444b Waste tail Large round and oval cells 

C 401 Sumach powder (fig. 4) Small round 

D f J!S X^^T"" ''"P" 11. ' f (fig- 3) Large oval and ellipsoid 

'v406 Ian liquor and brewer s yeast ^ o / o r 

["379 Tan liquor (no added yeast) 
E J 396 Valonia extract Medium size oval 

I 405 Recent tan liquor (no added yeast) 
y /381 Liquor from lime pits ,c „> Medium oval 

^ 1,444c Waste tan ^^' ^' (pink yeasts) 

« S Sk Gambfe? («»• ^) ^^^^ «-^ 

^(410 gfl^"*^*^^"^''!"^'" (fig. 7) Medium or small size ellipsoid 

I 444a Waste tan " (fig. 6) Oidium 

Relation of Yeasts to the Souring: of Tan Liquors. It 

had long been surmised that bacteria played some part in the tanning process, 
it was found that there was a gradual souring of the bark liquors, so that it has 



282 CAEVEE 

been the custom to add old liquor to the new batch. Gmelin and Wladika 
found that acetic and lactic acids were largely produced and were derived from 
the saccharine constituents of the bark. Haenlein isolated a bacillus, the 
"bacillus corticalis," which he says plays an important part in the souring 
process. It acts on saccharose, glucose, and lactose producing acids and a large 
quantity of gas, chiefly hydrogen, but tannin is not attacked by the organism. 

Acid-forming bacteria have also been described occurring in " the soak pits, 
and are supposed to have an important action on the ' plumping ' process, 
causing the hides to swell. 

It was thought desirable to find if the yeasts which are present in the liquor 
have any important action in the souring process. In wort and in glucose 
broth there is a slight acid formation with most of the yeasts, but there is none 
with lactose gelatin nor in a litmus milk medium. As there is no acid fer- 
mentation of lactose and milk, it is improbable that the yeasts play an important 
part in the formation of lactic acid. 

The following tables (I. — Y.) show, more clearly than a written description, 
the results of my examinations of these different yeasts. 



YEASTS IN TANNING MATERIALS 



283 




Some of the Yeasts from Tanning Materials, etc., x 280. 
See table on page '28J^. 



284 



CARVER 






(0 

3 

o 

> 

c 
o 



o 

k 



■H 

c 



°5 



4- 
O 

I. 
O 

o 

£ 



'&,' 



:i C^ cj ^ :S 
S p g 0) S 



> 5 -D 



^- - 'o ^ 9 s o - 

■3 g "iii -lis 

C «-^.«« " O « 

^^•3 -n 



•S ^3 -^ 






5 S 5 S -c 



-^ 1= ^-^^ 



■5 2 a>r^ 






c ^ , ^ ? ci a> ~~ 



.2 ^ 

o 'o aj 

o tc o 

jj rH r^ 



rfi.; 



o tc o S !-i oj 



o sc 

" O 



u 2 



tCOJ 
^ 0) 



v 



.=f^ 



4* rS 



S O 4) ^ — ® s 



111 

aj Oi o 



Q, eg ? 55 



5 ts 



O O g i; 
^ S C C 




>- 2 
II 

O cS 



gj K ^ a) ^ aj 



-T o 



-^ -C 2 '" 



'.g =^ N 



" =« 



o = « g = ^ 









^ i= 



2 O ^ C2 ^ ZIh •-'-^ ^ 



V ^ 0) 

c S S 



^'3 
^ S 

32 35 




2 *- 

ce o 
o 



tc ?; 



2 o S S 
c'o !: - 

-« st= -c .2 



5 .S 












OC 35 35 O 



c 
ca 

s 

03 



ill s a 

^ " > * J^ ^ "^ 
oj ^ H ^ "^n 



S- > 
5 ss o 

^ o s 

tec "5 
(h :j'T3 



o 

c 
o 
bo 

bfl 

c 

> 
5 



h 



S-i* 



(jq (N (M (N 






<i W fe w o 



o" z: s: - 



^^ .- 




wit 
eas 
pits 






o^2 


•+3 


s * s 


^ 


ill 




cS 


-*J^^ (h 


•p^ 


CtS o 


C 


a) « s 


^ 


«2 H^ 


> 



CO l>- ■* 

O Q O 



eij ^ 

2 =« 

.§ s 



p p. -s 



W Q 



.2 




1 


"c 


/i 


C 


^ 


o 


a> 


!J^ 


o 


0) 


> 


3 


tf 



o oj 



0) u 

PhM 



a 



go 



o « 

^ 50 



o 

o 
5 



m f^ 



a 


.S 


^ 


^ 


p: 


o 


Tf< 


-<*< 


^ 


^ 



YEASTS IN TANNING MATERIALS 

Table II.— Showing: the fermenting^ power of the 
Yeasts grrown in g^elatin to which various sugfars 
had been added. 



285 



Production of Gas. 



No. 


of 


Glucose 


Wort 


Lactose 


Type. 


gelatin. 


gelatin. 


gelatin. 


375 


A 


abundant 


abundant 


none 


379 


E 


Sligllt 


slight 


none 


381 


F 


none 


none 


none 


396 


E 


slight 


very slight 


none 


398 


G 


moderate 


abundant 


none 


401 


C 


slight 


moderate 


none 


403 


D 


abundant 


abundant 


none 


404 


G 


moderate 


moderate 


none 


405 


E 


none 


none 


none 


406 


D 


abundant 


abundant 


none 


409 


H 


slight 


slight 


none 


410 


H 


slight 


slight 


none 


444a 


I 


none 


none 


none 


444b 


B 


abundant 


abundant 


none 


44c 


F 


none 


none 


— 



Alteration in the specific gravity of 
wort after incubations at 25^ cent. 

Sp. gr. of wort Another experiment 

after 4 days, after 4 weeks growth. 

Control = 1CS0 Control=1084 



1022 
1070 
1078 
1072 
1050 
1050 
1054 
1068 
1078 
10.36 
1072 
1074 

1055 



1026 
1072 
1084 
1080 
1040 
1042 
1038 
1065 
1082 
1040 
1080 



1038 



Table III.— Showing^ the spore formation at different 



te m pe rat u res. 



No. 


Temp. 


1 day 


3 days 


7 days 


10 days 


375 


10°C 
















19 





few 


few 


abundant 




29 





few 


few 


abundant 




36 


abundant abundant abundant abundant 


379 


10 
















19 
















29 
















36 














381 


10 
















19 
















29 
















36 














396 


10 
















19 
















29 
















36 














398 


10 
















19 





^ 


few 


few 




29 





few 


few 


few 




36 





few 


few 


few 


401 


10 
















19 








few 


few 




29 








few 


few 




36 








few 


few 


403 


10 





few 


few 


few 




19 


few 


few 


few 


few 




29 


few 


few 


few 


few 




36 





few 


few 


few 


404 


19 
















29 














405 


16 
















29 
















.35 














406 


16 





^ 


few 


few 




19 





9 


few 


few 




25 





V 


few 


few 


409 & 410 


16 





6 


V 


very few 




29 








9 


very few 




36 








? 


very few 


444A 


16 








6 







29 
















38 














444b 


16 





V 


numerous 


numerous 




29 





V 


numerous 


numerous 




38 





9 


numerous 


numerous 



Remarks 

A large amount of budding seen. 

2-4 spores to the cell. In another 

experiment very few spores were 

seen 

The cells show marked metachro- 

matism, dark granular matter at 

the poles and dark bands across 

the centre 

Cells very small ; no sign of growth 



Numerous dark granules seen 



In first experiment no spores were 
seen. Not more than 2 seen in a 
cell. 

None seen in first experiment. 
2 only in the cell. 



Large opaque cells. Much budding 



Marked metaehroniatism 

Cells large, much budding. Vacuola- 
tion seen 

2 spores only to a cell. None seen 
in first experiment 



Cells grow to an enormous length 

witli several large dark nuclei in 

them. 

2-4 .spores on tlie cell. None .seen in 

first experiment 



286 



CARVER 





Table 


IV. 


-Sho^ 


vlng g^rowth on 


potato at 


diff< 


srent 










temperatures. 








No. 




O'^" 


4-5° 


6-8° 


10-12° 


14° 


20-22° 


29° 


35 


40° 


375 


3 days 

7 „ 









scanty 


9 

fair 




good 


fair 







14 „ 











scanty 


fair 




good 


fair 





379 


3 days 













9 




good 









7 ,, 







fair 


fair 


good 




good 









14 „ 





scanty 


fair 


good 


good 




good 







381 


3 days 













scanty 




good 









7 „ 




9 


V 


scanty 


fair 




good 








14 „ 





fair 


9 


scanty 


fair 




good 


9 




396 


3 days 







6 





fair 




fair 


6 






7 „ 










scanty 


good 




good 








14 „ 











scanty 


good 




good 







398 


3 days 


















fair 


fair 







7 „ 







fair 




fair 




good 


good 






14 „ 








fair 


fair 


fair 




good 


good 





401 


3 days 







scanty 
good 


9 


scanty 
good 




fair 


scanty 
good 







7 ,, 




fair 


good 




good 






14 ,, 





good 


good 


good 


good 




good 


good 





403 


3 days 







9 


fair 


fair 




fair 


fair 


scanty 




7 ,, 









good 


good 




good 


good 






14 „ 





scanty 


9 


good 


good 




good 


good 


scanty 


404 


3 days 

7 „ 








6 




9 


scanty 




fair 
fair 


fair 
fair 







14 „ 











scanty 


scanty 




fair 


fair 





405 


3 days 





















fair 


fair 







7 ,, 
14 „ 





9 


9 


9 


fair 


good 


good 





406 


3 days 









6 


6 


scanty 




fair 


fair 







14 „ 








fair 


fair 




good 


good 





409 


3 days 







fair 


fair 


fair 













and 


7 ,, 




fair 
















410 


14 „ 





scanty 


good 


good 


good 


good 










444A 


3 days 

7 „ 

















scanty 











14 „ 











scanty 




fair 









444b 


3 days scanty 


scanty 


scanty 


scanty 


scanty 




fair 








4o°C 



14 



fair 



fair 



fair 



fair good 



good 



Table V.— Showing: the reactions of Media after g^rowth 

of various Yeasts. 



No. Type 



Lactose gelatin 
1 month 



Litmus Milk 
C weeks. 



no acid fermentations neutral reaction 



375 
379 
381 
396 
398 
401 
403 
404 
405 
406 
409 

& H 
410 

444a I 
444b B 

Except in the case of the peptone broth, the reaction of all the media used was 

neutral. 



Wort 


Glucose broth 


Peptone broth 


1 month. 




(Alk.) 




C weeks. 


1 month. 


acid reaction 


acid 


alkaline 


acid 


neutral 


alkaline 


neutral 


neutral 


neutral 


faint acid 


acid 


neutral 


strong acid 


acid 


alkaline 


acid 


acid 


alkaline 


acid 


acid 


alkaline 


strong acid 


acid 


alkaline 


neutral 


alkaline 


alkaline 


acid 


acid 


alkaline 


acid 


acid 


faint acid 


alkaline 


neutral 


alkaline 


acid 


acid 


neutral 



YEASTS IN TANNING MATERIALS 287 

Genera,! Remarks. Since tlie yeasts were first isolated some of them 
have shown certain alterations in characters. No. 401, Type C, the small round 
yeast, has certainly grown larger, while Nos. 409 and 410, Type H, have 
apparently become smaller. Many of them have acquired a greater fermenting 
power, and appear to form spores more readily. It was a matter of some 
difiiculty to obtain pure cultures of some of the yeasts, particulaily in No. 444. 
In several successive plates made from apparently pure cultures from single 
colonies, I found two or more varieties. 

The yeasts all stain well with the usual basic aniline dyes, and they retain 
the Gram's stain. When stained by the Ziehl-Neelsen method, the cells do not 
retain the red, but there are in some of the specimens a few cells or parts of 
cells which remain red. This may be due to the formation of spores. No. 379 
and others of Type E show a considerable amount of metachromatism, especially 
in the early cultures. Polar staining was observed and also a dark band across 
the centre. 

There was little difference in the appearance of the cells on diii'erent media. 
In film growths in fluids there was a tendency to the formation of chains of 
cells having a mycelium appearance. The oidium No. 444a seemed to be 
distinctly smaller when grown on Leofiler's serum. 

I tried several methods of observing the formation of spores. I found the 
moist filter paper cells method most convenient. In those yeasts in which I 
could not demonstrate the presence of spores there appear to be changes 
produced which are characterised by the appearance of metachromatism in 
bands and large granules and also of vacuoles. 

It will be seen that some yeasts form spores more readily than others, but 
I was unable to differentiate the yeasts by observing the formation of spores at 
certain temperatures in a definite time as has been done in the case of the 
brewing yeasts. 

The micro-photographs which are appended show the appearances of the 
cells and show the differences in the size and shape. They were taken by 
Mr. F. Simons, Technical Assistant to the Laboratory. 

Conclusions. 1. Yeasts are present in all, or nearly all,' of the vegetable 
materials in use in the tanning industry, and can be isolated from them. 

2. They are present also in all the waste products, but their isolation is 
much more difficult owing to the presence of a large number of bacteria. 

3. The yeasts in pure cultures do not produce any bad smelling gases, and do 
not appear to contribute to the smell of the tan liquors. 

4. On the basis of morphological and cultural characters it is possible to 
recognise seven or eight varieties of yeasts, but I am not able to state that these 
forms correspond to as many good species, for after being grown for several 
generations in pure cultures, some of the forms which at first appeared to be 
distinct, gradually approached a common type. 

5. In my observations spore formation seemed to take place more readily in 
the yeasts which had the greater power of producing alcoholic fermentation. 

6. Whatever share yeasts may have in the " souring " of ordinary tan 
liquors, there was no clear indication of such action in any of the pure cultures 
studied; moreover, in old tan liquors and waste products, the yeasts did not 
seem to have increased in number equally with bacteria. 



Investigation of an Epidemic of Fish 
Poisoning at Drinkwater Park. 



BY 

E. J. SIDEBOTHAM, M.A., M.B., 

Lecturer in Practical Bacteriology ; 

AND 

A. SELLERS, M.D., D.P.H., 

Assistant Lecturer in Comparative Pathology^ Public Health Laboratory^ Manchester. 



Investigation of an Epidemic of Fish 
Poisoning at Drinkwater Park. 



The sheet of water at Drinkwater Park is rented by an angling 
association. 

In November, 1902, it was noticed that there was a very excessive 
mortality amongst the fish, hundreds of dead fish being removed 
from the lower reach of the lake. The epidemic continued, and 
in January, 1903, the association consulted Professor Delepine witl) 
a view to discovering the cause of the outbreak. 

At his request we visited the place the same month. 
Description of the Lake. 

The lake is about five acres in extent and about six feet deep, the 
banks being formed of shelving earth. It is fed by a few small 
streams, the principal one entering at the north end, and this stream 
is the only one exposed to the possibility of contamination by 
manufacturing or other polluted effluents. 

Species of Fish, 

We were informed that during the three previous years the lake 
had been stocked with between four and five thousand fish con- 
sisting of roach (Leuciscus rutilus), dace (Leuciscus vulgaris), chub 
(Leuciscus cephalus), perch (Perca fluviatilis), bream (Abramis 
brama), and carp (Cyprinus carpio). The fish had thriven and 
grown in size, and up to the time of the epidemic very few dead 
ones had been seen. 

Condition of Lake, January, 1903. 

At the time of our visit the lake was very full, the mud banks 
being entirely submerged. The water looked fairly clean, there 
was no marked discolouration or scum, and no smell perceptible 
over the greater part of the lake ; but at the upper reach, where the 
main stream enters, there was an unpleasant smell suggestive of 
sewage, and we found that the effluent from the Clough Bottom 
Bleach Works was passing into the stream. 

This effluent was turbid, slightly yellow in colour and had an 
unpleasant smell, but we were informed that it did not contain any 
chemicals or materials used in bleaching or dyeing, but only tlie 



292 SIDEBOTHAM 

last washings of the cloth. It had, we were told, up to November, 
1901, passed directly into the stream, but in that month it had been 
diverted and only now passes into the stream during floods. 

Condition of tlie Fish. 

We noticed a considerable number of dead and dying fish, the 
majority of which were well fed and in good condition. Some were 
extensively affected with saprolegnia, but others were quite free and 
showed no evidence of disease. 

Possible Causes of the Epidemic. 

Two possible causes of the epidemic presented themselves : — 

1. The fish might be suffering from some contagious disease. 

2. The epidemic might be due to some poison contained in the 
bleach works' effluent or introduced into the lake by some other 
means. We carefully examined some of the dead fish and found no 
evidence of bacterial or protozoon infection, and in those affected 
with saprolegnia it appeared probable that it was a secondary infec- 
tion affecting only dead and dying fish. 

A chemical efxamination of the water and bleach works' effluent 
failed to detect any substance that would account for the outbreak. 

Experiments. 

The following experiments were made to ascertain — ■ 

A. Whether fish would live in the lake water. 

A healthy roach was placed in a tank containing four litres of 
the lake water which was kept well aerated. 

The fish continued well for several days, when the experiment 
was discontinued. 

B. Whether fish would live in the laJce water to ivhich some of the 

bleach works' effluent had been added. 

Two healthy fish were placed in a tank containing four litres 
of the lake water to which one litre of the bleach works' effluent was 
gradually added, efficient aeration being maintained. 

In this case also the fish were not in any way affected. 

C. Whether fish would live in the bleach works' effluent. 
In this case again no ill-effects were observed. 

D. Whether a diseased fish was capable of communicating disease 

to a healthy one in pure water. 
A dead fish removed from the lake and affected with saprolegnia 
was placed in a tank containing well aerated tap water. A roach 
and a carp introduced into this tank continued healthy during the 
experiment which lasted for over a fortnight. 

E. Whether a diseased fish was able to communicate disease to a 

healthy one in lake water. 



EPIDEMIC OF FISH POISONING 293 

A dead fisli removed from the lake and affected with saprolegnia 
was placed in a tank containing four litres of well aerated lake water 
and a healthy roach and carp were placed in this tank. 

The carp died in three days and the roach a day later. The blood 
of these fish was examined for bacteria but none were found, nor 
could any evidence be obtained that they had died from infectious 
disease. As the dead fish used in this experiment was in a state 
of decomposition, it was felt that too much stress should not be 
laid on this result, and no material was available for repeating the 
experiment. 

The results so far obtained seemed to suggest that the epidemic 
was not caused by the bleach works' effluent, and probably also was 
not due to infectious disease. 

Early in April, 1903, a sample of muddy water was sent to us 
which had been collected from the upper end of the lake after stirring 
up the water. It was found to be dark and turbid from the presence 
of fine black particles, and had a smell resembling bisulphide of 
carbon or naphtha and possibly putrid matter. On evaporating to 
dryness a tarry material Avas obtained which smelt strongly of 
mineral pitch. The analysis of this material by Dr. Walker Hall is 
given below.* 

Condition of the Lake, iVIay, 1903. 

We visited the lake again at the end of May. The water was now 
very low and the muddy banks were exposed to view. At the north 
end, where the main stream enters, the sand of the exposed banks 
was blackened for a depth of three or four inches and in the small 
pools left at the side of the stream there was a scum of oily-looking 
material with a strong tarry smell. The deposit on the exposed 
banks of the stream was very evident as far as the point marked A on 
the map. Above this point it could be traced in places, but it had 
to a large extent been covered by a deposit of clean sand. From 
the point A to the bleach works the stream is much more rapid than 
below the point A, where it widens out somewhat before entering 
the lake. 

At the bleach works the stream is culverted as far as the lower 
end of Prestwich Clough, and above this point is again sluggish for 
about 100 yards, and here again the tarry deposit was distinctly 
recognisable. 



* Extraction of the colouring matter by ether, hydrochloric acid and benzine yielded 
a yellow fluorescent solution. The acid extract gave the reactions of one of the 
naphthalamine series, and none of the extracts contained either phenol or naphthol. 

On distillation an irritating liydrocarbon was obtained which had a low melt- 
ing point. The following tests were applied at Professor Delepine's request : — Upon 
evaporation of the sand to dryness and subsequent lieating globules of a dark tarry 
substance remained. These smelt strongly of mineral pitch .and were soluble in xylol 
and l)enzine, giving a reddish fluorescent solution. This reaction is characteristic of 
mineral pitch. Traces of iron and calcium were also found. 



294 SIDEBUTHAM 

Still higher up the stream the same deposit could be detected 
by removing the surface sand and evidence of its presence was 
traceable as far as a short distance above the point where it is crossed 
by the Bury New Road. (Shown in the map as a thick, straight, 
black line.) 

A reference to the map will show that the road here crosses the 
shallow valley on a raised embankment, and the whole of its surface 
water for about a distance of 300 yards on each side of the stream 
passes into it by two open channels, one on each side of the road. 

At the time of our visit these channels were much discoloured 
and contained tarry mud. No trace of the tarry material could be 
found above the entrance of these channels. 

We traced the stream to its source and found that no sewage or 
trade effluents entered it above this point. 

It appeared evident that the tarry material had been derived 
from the road, and enquiries showed that this stretch of road that 
drained into the stream had been remade during the winter and newly 
paved with granite sets laid in tar. 

Experiments 

Attempts were made in the Laboratory to reproduce in an ex- 
perimental stream a tariy deposft similar to the one observed, and 
to ascertain whether the materials used in road making could impart 
to a pure water substances deleterious to fish life. 

For this purpose a shallow Y-shaped wooden trough about 12 ft. 
long was partly filled with silver sand and at the upper end a small 
stream of water was allowed to pass from a glass vessel which was 
supplied with tap water, the tap water being made to drip on to 
blocks of wood thickly coated with the freshly-prepared asphalte and 
solvent used in road making. The effluent, which was collected in a 
glass vessel, was clear and had a distinct but not very strong tarry 
smell. At the upper end of the trough a black deposit began at once 
to form and this gradually extended until the whole of the sand was 
coated, the appearance produced being very similar to that observed 
in the banks of the stream supplying the lake. A goldfish (Carassius 
auratus.) placed in the effluent was at once affected, rising to the 
surface and preserving its balance with difficulty. The opercula 
were at first kept closed and then opened and closed spasmodically. 
Death took place in 45 minutes. 

A similar experiment was made with a small carp which in 10 
minutes was evidently in a dying condition, but recovered in about 
half an hour after being placed in clean water. In water containing 
30 per cent, of the effluent fish were also rapidly affected and were in 
a dying condition in 20 minutes, but, as before, recovered on being 
placed in clean water. In water containing 20 per cent, of the 
effluent they were visibly affected in 2 hours. 







LON s^ia' w 

INTON AND PENDLEBURY U. D. 
>•'" PENDLEBURY Ph. 

IHi/4. 



SALFORI) UNION 



SALFORD Co. if PARLY. BORO. 



STRi 



EPIDEMIC OF FISH POISONING 295 

In water containing 10 per cent, of the effluent a small rudd 
showed toxic symptoms in 2 hours, but afterwards recovered some- 
what and was still alive in 24 hours. 

A similar experiment with similar results was made with a small 
carp. 

In water containing 1 per cent, of the effluent a small rudd lived 
for 24 hours and showed no toxic symptoms. 

In all the above experiments the water was kept well aerated 
during the whole of the observations. 

Further experiment showed that the effluent when allowed to 
stand lost its toxic properties to a considerable extent. A small 
carp, placed in a water containing 20 per cent, of an effluent that 
had been prepared on the previous day was unaft'ected in 24 hours, 
and a similar result was got when a small rudd was placed in a water 
containing 10 per cent, of the effluent. 

Conclusion. 

The conclusion, therefore, is that water passing over the freshly- 
prepared materials used in road making is capable of producing death 
in fish of different species, and it appears clear that the epidemic in 
Drinkwater Park was due to some materials conveyed into the lake 
from the recently repaved Bury New Road, materials having a direct 
toxic action on the nerve centres. In some cases an increased redness 
of the gills was observable 24 hours after the conclusion of the ex- 
periment, but no deposit was ever noticed. 

We must express our thanks and indebtedness to Professor 
Delepine for the help he gave us all through the investigation and 
for the valuable suggestions he made as to the method of conducting 
the enquiry. 



On Two Aldehyde Reactions. 



BY 



W. B. RAMSDEN, B.Sc, M.B., Ch.B., 

Lecturer in Sanitary Chemistry, Public Health Laboratory. 



On Two Aldehyde Reactions. 



In the course of some investigations, on wliicli I am now engaged at 
the suggestion of Professor Delepine, concerning the action and 
behaviour of formaldehyde as a preservative in food, it became necessary 
that some delicate and simple method of detecting the formaldehyde 
should be used, which is capable at the same time of being employed 
as a quick method of estimation. After a survey of the various ways 
of determining formaldehyde I am now using the cyanide method of 
Rom j in (1) for the stronger solutions. For the weaker solutions I 
employ a modification of the method given by MM. Seyewetz and 
Gibello in the Bulletin de la Societe Chimique de Paris (June, 1904). 
These authors estimate the formaldehyde by means of sodium sul- 
phite. Starting with a 20 per cent, solution of sodium sulphite they 
first neutralise 20 ccs. of it with standard H2SO4 using a 0'2 per cent, 
solution of phenolphthalein as an indicator. The quantity of H2SO4 
required for this purpose is determined once for all. In another 
portion of the sulphite a known volume of the formaldehyde solution 
is added and a second titration with H2SO4 carried out. The differ- 
ence in the two titrations gives a measure of the formaldehyde in the 
solution according to their equation 

2Na2S03 + 2HCH0 + H2SO4 = 2(NaHS03HCHO) + '^s.^O,. 

In order to detect formaldehyde in solutions too dilute to be 
estimated by this method, I have modified the test by starting with 
sodium metabisulphite (thus carrying out a suggestion of Mr. Thos. 
Tyrer made publicly some time ago). A test solution is made as 
follows : 50 grammes of sodium metabisulphite are dissolved in 
100 CCS. of water and filtered. To this strongly acid solution 50 per 
cent. NaOH is added until nearly neutral. 2 ccs. of the solution are 
now taken, made up to 60 ccs. with distilled water and 1 cc. of 
phenolpthalein solution added, and the whole put into a Nessler glass. 
Decinormal NajCOg or NaOH is added until the phenolphthalein 
indicates a very slight alkalinity. The original solution is then 
neutralised with the requisite amount of NagCOg or NaOII, and then 
allowed to stand for two days in a stoppered bottle. 3 ccs. of this 
solution added to 48 ccs. of distilled water and 1 cc. of phenolphthalein 
should only give the faintest possible pink colouration. 

To test for formaldehyde 50 ccs. of the solution (neutral) supposed 
to contain formaldehyde are taken in a Nessler glass, and 2 ccs. of the 
reagent and 1 cc. phenolphthalein added. A pink to red colour is 



300 RAMSDEN 

produced if formaldehyde is present. A control with distilled water 
should always be made. 

The delicacy of the test with formaldehyde is about 4 parts per 
million. 

As might be expected, other aldehydes, e.g., acetaldehyde, give 
the reaction, but not with the same dilution as formaldehyde. 

It is important that care should be taken to use aldehyde — free 
alcohol in the preparation of the phenolphthalein solution, as some 
samples contain aldehyde in appreciable quantity. The reaction may 
be expressed by the equation 

Na^SOa + HCHO + H^O = (NaHSOsHCHO) + NaOH. 

Coloured or turbid solutions must first be distilled. 

In a search for a reaction capable of detecting quantities less than 
the lower limit of the above reaction, I found that the ordinary 
Ifessler solution reacted with formaldehyde. 

(2) With Nessler Solution. 

If to a solution of formaldehyde in a Nessler glass the usual 
quantity of Nessler reagent (2 ccs.) is added, a reaction takes place 
dependent on the strength of the formaldehyde solution. If the 
solution is fairly strong an immediate blackish-brown precipitate is 
produced due to the reduction of the Nessler reagent. 

In weaker solutions the reaction proceeds more slowly, a canary- 
yellow colouration being produced at first, then the solution becomes 
slightly opalescent and of a greenish-yellow colour, and finally 
darkens, and on allowing to stand a precipitate falls to the bottom, 
the colour of which depends on the concentration of the formaldehyde 
solution. 

In a dilution of 1 part HCHO in 1,000,000 of water the change 
from the canary-yellow to the dark brown takes about one hour to 
complete. The reaction is quite apparent in a dilution of 1 part 
HCHO in 2,000,000, and the suspended matter settles down to the 
bottom in 24 hours. 

This reaction is therefore of great delicacy, and can be used for 
detecting minute traces of HCHO. 

(1) Zeits. f. analyt. Cheinie, vol. xxxvi., pp. 18-24, 1897. 



The Brain and Spinal Cord in Chronic 
Arsenical Poisoning. 



BY 



REGINALD LAWRENCE, M.D. 



The Brain and Spinal Cord in Chronic 
Arsenical Poisoning. 



This investigation* was undertaken at tlie suggestion of Professor 
Delepine, and was carried out in the Pathological Laboratories of 
Owens College. It consists of two parts, viz. : — 

Part I. An examination of the brain and spinal cord of patients 
who died during the epidemic of Arsenical Poisoning in Salford 
and Manchester in 1900-1901, and who during life had well-marke<l 
symptoms of " Peripheral Neuritis." The material for this part of 
the investigation was obtained from the Salford Hospital, the Work- 
houses at Crumpsall and Withington, and from Halifax, and were 
collected for Professor Delepine or presented to him by Dr. Ray and 
Dr. Moore. Dr. Moore collected the greater part of the material 
and supplied information regarding the autopsies. 

Part II. is an examination of the spinal cords of rats which were 
fed on arsenious acid or its compounds, with or without the addition 
of alcohol. These experiments were made by Professor Delepine, 
who placed at my disposal his notes upon them. 

The methods employed in the histological examination 
deserve short mention. The material for Part I. was obtained 
after the interval which usually intervenes between the death 
of a patient and the autopsy. The material for Part II. 
was obtained fresh in those cases in which the animal was 
killed. In cases where the animal died, a period varying from 
two or three to sixteen hours might have elapsed between the time 
of death and the hardening of the specimen. The control experiments 
made with a view to eiiminate post-7nortevi changes will be mentioned 
later. 

The specimens were hardene<l in 4 per cent, formalin, for a 
variable time which in some cases extended to several weeks, and 
subsequently in alcohol of increasing strengths. They were after- 
wards embedded in celloidin. The sections were cut on a freezing 
microtome. 

The sections were stained with hsematein alone, or with haematein. 



* The results of this investigation formed the subject of a Dissertation presented 
for the degree of M.D., Victoria University. The microscopical specimens were 
demonstrated at a meeting at the Public Heaitli Lalx)ratory, on June 1st, 19(J4. 



304 LAWRENCE 

rubin and orange, or with borax-carmine and hsematein, to show 
the structure of the cord. To examine the minute structure of the 
nerve cells, the sections were stained with methylene-blue or 
thionin-blue, the methods used differing from the methods 
described by Nissl in many important respects. Nissl describes 
two methods : The first consists in staining with an aqueous 
solution of fuchsin, washing in absolute alcohol and clearing in oil 
of cloves. This method could not be employed for staining sections 
embedded in celloidin. The second method described by Nissl is 
exceedingly complicated, it may be summed up as follows : — 

1. Harden in alcohol of successively increasing strengths. 

2. Stain in a 5 per cent, solution of methylene-blue, which should 
be heated until it begins to boil. 

3. When the staining solution has cooled down wash the sections 
in the following mixture : — ■ 

Aniline oil 20 c.cm. 

90 per cent, alcohol 200 c.cm. 

This should be continued as long as the colour comes out and until 
the white and grey matter are clearly differentiated from each other. 

4. Dry with blotting paper. Origanum oil for a short time. 

5. Dry with blotting paper, and afterwards remove with benzine 
any origanum oil which remains. 

6. Cover the section with a solution of resin in benzine evaporated 
down to the consistency of thin Canada balsam. 

7. Pass the slide throvigh a flame which ignites the benzine resin. 

8. Cover with a cover-glass and warm until the benzine resin 
fills the space between the slide and the cover-glass. 

The difficulties of this long process are obvious, and it was found 
possible to obtain good results by a much simpler method. The 
sections were stained in a 0'5 per cent, solution of methylene-blue or 
thionin-blue with or without warming, washed in the solution 
described above (No. 3), cleared in xylol and mounted in Canada 
balsam. 

For the purpose of comparison, specimens were hardened in 
alcohol, saturated solution of perchloride of mercury or formalin 
4 per cent. It was found that formalin was not inferior to the other 
two reagents, and preparations hardened in formalin stained 
excellently with methylene-blue. 

Work by previous observers. 

The action of arsenic on the nervous system has been the subject 
of a large number of experimental enquiries, and the question can 
scarcely be said to be decided yet. Perhaps the reason is that very 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 305 

few post-mortems have been made till recently. Dana (2) says, in 
1887, that he can find no record of a post-mortem. 

The action of arsenic on frogs has been investigated by Ringer 
and Murrell, who conclude that arsenic affects at first and very 
rapidly the nerve centres. In mammals Scolosuhoff is probably the 
first who has endeavoured to study experimentally the mechanism of 
the nervous troubles, and has come to the conclusion that they result 
from alteration of the nerve centres by arsenic. 

In the arsenic experiments, performed under the directon of 
MuerzejewsJcy, Popoff (3) found that in animals submitted to sub- 
acute poisoning, there are produced very manifest lesions of the cord 
having the character of an acute polio-myelitis. In the more chronic 
cases the inflammation extends to the white substance, and produces 
diffuse myelitis. The nerves examined at the exit from the cord 
as well as in their peripheral course, show no change, even in the 
cases where death has supervened three months later. 

Later, replying to the objection made to him, Popoff described 
in a case of poisoning in man, the same alterations which he had 
observed in animals — swelling, cloudiness, decolourisation and 
vacuolation of the nerve cells, hypersemia and infiltration by blood 
of the cervical and dorsal region of the cord, in the neighbourhood 
of the central canal, the posterior horns and the lateral columns, and 
plastic exudations in the cervical enlargement. Kreysig (4), working 
under Schtiltze in Heidelberg, from the results of experiments on 
animals, says that these changes are due to the method of hardening 
employed, and can be met in the cord of normal animals. After 
poisoning by arsenic, he describes no other lesions in the nerve 
centres than capillary haemorrhages in the grey matter, which are 
not constant. He quotes Vulpian (5) as having arrived at equally 
negative results. On a dog in which large doses of arsenic adminis- 
tered for ten days had brought on paralysis, Jaeschke only found 
little apoplexies in the meninges without any other indication of a 
central myelitis. This author appears to be the first to have 
attributed the motor and sensory disturbances to peripheral lesions — 
to a polyneuritis ; and this opinion is held to-day by the greater part 
of those who are interested in the question. Jaeschke is of this 
opinion, for the following reasons : — 

1. The localisation of the sensory or motor disturbances in the 
limits of certain nerves. In one of his cases there was a well-marked 
anaesthesia, limited to the region of the median nerve. 

2. The marked sensory disturbances, especially the burning pains, 
ataxia and tenderness along the nerves. 

3. Absence of the characteristic weakness in profound spinal 
paraplegia, viz., vesical weakness. 

4. Absence of the rapid and high degree of atrophy which follows 
anterior polio-myelitis. 



306 LAWRENCE 

5. The comparatively rapid and complete cure, despite a high 
grade of paralysis, 

6. The presence of herpes zoster. 

7. The electrical reactions which are those of a mild form of 
peripheral paralysis, 

8. The sensibility of the paralysed muscles. 
Dana (loc. dt.) adds to these arguments : — 

1. The existence of optic neuritis which he has observed. 

2. Localised paralysis, as, for example, that of a single vocal 
cord, observed by Mackenzie. 

3. The fact that arsenic can produce a perfect type of pseudo- 
tabes, like the tabes due to alcohol or diphtheria, and in the last 
instance we know it is due to a polyneuritis, 

Lanccreaux (7) relied on this proof by analogy and on the clinical 
picture of arsenical paralyses to range them in the group of paralyses 
of peripheral origin, 

Naunyn (8) brought forward in a case he observed the analogy 
of the symptoms with those of a polyneuritis. This opinion was 
confirmed by the experimental researches of Alexander (9), who 
found in poisoned rabbits degenerative atrophy of nerves and muscles 
without alteration of the central nervous system. But at the same 
time he comes to this conclusion, that among animals it is as difficult 
to determine, by means of a chronic intoxication, the appearance of 
a polyneuritis as of a myelitis. 

Becq (10), in his experiments, has met with the same difficulty — 
no modification in the structure of the cord. 

It would appear from these facts that the nervous manifestations 
should be, in the majority of cases, attributed to peripheral changes, 
but no further generalisation can be made, for quite recently 
Henschen (11) has published a work in which he insists on the very 
clear and widespread primary medullary lesions. He describes 
changes in the grey matter : cells in the cervical region are scanty 
and present all transitions between fairly large and almost normal 
cells with well-defined nuclei and sharp outlines, and distinct but 
not numerous processes and completely atrophied cells, these latter 
being very numerous. They are very pale and indistinctly outlined, 
without nuclei but with rich pigment. Rounded cells with only a 
few processes are perhaps the most numerous. In the lumbar region 
the cord is deformed by haemorrhage, and the ganglion cells are 
partially atrophied. In connection with the vessels he notices that 
the large ones are injected and the hyperaemia may go on to 
haemorrhage. The clinical picture, he thinks, must in consequence 
allow a share to the cord in the morbid process. 

SilherTnan (12) attributes the nervous troubles to altered circula- 
tory conditions in the central nervous system ; he found haemorrhages 
and thrombosis in this part. 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 307 

Barrs (13) and Osier (14) consider it a periplieral neuritis. 

In the epidemic of arsenic poisoning at Le Havre a pathological 
examination of the cord was made in one case. The changes in the 
cord, viz., foci of disintegration and hyaline transformation, were 
pronounced by Cornil to be merely the result of incomplete preserva- 
tion and the action of alcohol in which the cord was hardened. 
Brouardel and Pouchet (" Etude sur I'Arsenicisme," par Dr. G. 
Brouardel, 1897) could find no lesions in the cord. 

Dr. Thomas Oliver, the writer of the article on Arsenic in 
ClifPord-Allbutt's " System of Medicine," says : " Arsenical multiple 
neuritis in some respects resembles subacute polio-myelitis, but there 
is more pain, and the combination of sensory disturbances and ten- 
dency to rapid cure diminishes the resemblance. Is the lesion 
peripheral or central ? " 

Professor Delepine, struck by the inadequacy of the theory of 
"peripheral neuritis" and the absence of clear pathological proof, 
was unable to say dogmatically, in his evidence given in the 
early part of 1900 before the Commission appointed to enquire 
into the epidemic of " arsenic poisoning," whether the lesion 
was peripheral or central. He had examined the peripheral 
nerves in several cases, and in one case only had found 
unmistakable degeneration. The nerves in the other cases showed 
segmentation of the myelin sheaths and other minor changes, 
which, however, were not sufficient to prove that they were the seat 
of inflammation or degeneration due to the action of arsenic. The 
report of this examination of the peripheral nerves has not yet been 
published, but I am enabled to make the statement by Professor 
Delepine's kindness. 

Normal Histolog^y of Nerve Cells. 

The advances in the knowledge of the intimate structure of the 
nerve cell have been accompanied by an increase in the number of 
descriptive terms which threatens to cause considerable confusion 
and concealment of meaning. The terms which I shall use are those 
which seem to me to be most widely used and open to the least 
objection. The word neuron is used to denote the whole cell, 
including its axis cylinder process and its protoplasmic processes. 
About the nucleus, nucleolus, the axis cylinder and the protoplasmic? 
processes there can be no confusion. The Nissl bodies — better called 
the chromatophile elements — are the granules which stain with 
methylene-blue. The achromatic substance is that part of the cell 
body which does not normally stain with methylene-blue. Of these 
constituents of a nerve cell the chromatophile elements especially 
deserve a short notice. 

The chromatophile elements were first described by Nissl (loc. 
cit.) in 1892. He gave the morphological characters as follows: 
Though varying in shape and size they present themselves in many 



308 



LAWRENCE 



forms and preserve a fixed arrangement. They appear as irregular 
masses, etc. They are united into a network. Their parallel 
arrangement gives them a peculiar tigroid aspect. They are present 
in the cell body and protoplasmic processes, but absent from the axis 
cylinder process, and scanty or absent in the conical eminence from 
which the axis cylinder arises (see Fig. II.). 

They are insoluble in mineral acids, acetic acid, warm alcohol, 
ether or chloroform, soluble in potassium ferro-cyanide and caustic 
potash. They belong to the group of nucleo-albumins. They are 
considered by Held (15) to be due to precipitation by the fixing agent; 
this, however, does not diminish the value of the pathological changes 
observed if this product is constant and presents itself in normal and 
pathological conditions in a different form constant for each. 

Turner (16), at the sviggestion of Dr. Mott, examined the grey 
matter of the spinal cord of freshly killed animals, in a solution of 




r':- 




Fig. 1 (Case XI.).— From anterior horn 
of grey matter in Lumbar region of 
Cord. Clironic arsenical poisoning. 



Fig. II. — Normal multipolar cells from 
anterior horn of grey matter.' 



methylene blue in normal saline, and found exactly the same appear- 
ance. 

The function of the chromatophile elements is necessarily a 
matter of conjecture. They are supposed to form a sort of alimentary 
reserve — a nutrition granary. (Lugaro, Cajal and Van Gehuchten.) 
They are supposed to possess considerable chemical properties, giving 
rise according to their wear and tear to a certain amount of chemical 
energy. 

Changes in the chromatophile elements are demonstrable by the 
method of staining with methylene-blue, thionin-blue or toluidin- 
blue. These changes are the earliest demonstrable morphological 
changes indicative of an altered functional state. They follow 
section of the prolongations of the nerve cell (shutting off the normal 
afferent stimuli), the action of various poisons including bacterial 
toxines, elevation of temperature, anaemia and excessive stimulation. 

The chromatophile elements undergo disintegration and disappear 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 309 

as a result of morbid processes in tlie cell. The constituent granules 
disappear and their transition is marked by diminished afl&nity for 
basic dyes, this process is called Chromatolysis, and cells which are 
the seat of this change have the appearance of having their chromatin 
particles distributed throughout the cell in the form of a fine powder 
or dust. Chromatolysis may be peripheral, peri -nuclear (see Fig. I.), 
or diffuse. 

The achromatic substance or "unstainable substance" is generally 
supposed to possess a fibrillar structure. When it stains deeply with 
the stains which normally stain the chromatophile elements it may 
be interpreted as a pathological appearance. This change is said to 
occur in poisoning by arsenic and antimony and in Landry's paralysis. 

The nucleus in the normal nerve cell is chiefly characterized by 
its very definite outline, its size and its nucleolus. The nucleus 
stains very faintly with methylene-blue while the nucleolus stains 
very deeply. The normal position of the nucleus is in the centre of 
the cell. Its excentric position is one of the most notable changes in 
a nerve cell which has been morbidly altered. It may even project 
beyond the surface of the cell or possibly be extruded. The explana- 
tion of this is that the achromatic substance which moors the nucleus 
in its central position becomes destroyed. Lugaro (17.) 

The axis cylinder processes do not contain chromatophile elements, 
and these latter are scanty in the conical eminence from which it 
arises. In this situation chromatolysis is said to commence. 

The protoplasmic processes are numerous and contain chroma- 
tophile elements in their most typical arrangement, viz., the parallel 
disposition. Apart from their function as conductors of impulses 
the protoplasmic processes immensely increase the surface of the cell, 
and consequently its power of absorbing nutrition. 

Pigment in the central nervous system is in point of degree a 
characteristic of man in contradistinction to the lower animals. 
There are two kinds of pigment in the central nervous system : one 
is pale yellow and occurs in the cells of the cerebral cortex, the basal 
ganglia, the spinal cord, and the spinal ganglia. The other is dark 
brown and is present in the locus coeruleus and the substantia nigra. 
Neither are hsematogenous. The former is the pigment which has 
come under notice in examining the brain and spinal cord in the 
human subject. The yellow pigment is not present at birth but 
appears about the sixth year and continues to increase throughout 
life. About the chemical composition of the pigment there are two 
diametrically opposed views : That it is blackened by osmic acid, 
but not if first treated with ether, therefore it is partly of a fatty 
nature. The second view is that it is not fat, but that it may under- 
go a fatty change and then a black reaction is obtained with osmic 
acid. As to the significance of this pigment Schiifer (18) considers 
that the presence of pigment is not a sign of decadence but rather 



310 LAWEENCE 

of activity. Possibly the date of appearance of pigment lends sup- 
port to this view. 

Marinesco (19) believes that the pigment results from the trans- 
formation of the chromatophile elements and that it is allied to fat. 
In the human cases in Part I. of this investigation the relation of 
pigment to chromatophile elements will be noticed. 

Alterations in the pigment. The association of excess of pigment 
with degeneration of nerve cells has been called " Pigmentary or 
Yellow-Globular Degeneration." That there is a physiological in- 
crease of pigment with advancing age is not disputed, but that it is 
"invariably a witness of bye-gone functional activity" is not so 
generally accepted. Colucci is of opinion that the pigment is a 
product of metabolism in the cell. He thinks that all the elements 
on the spot are probably involved in the transformation as the ap- 
pearance of the pigment is accompanied by the disappearance of the 
normal structure of the cell. Excess of pigment is said to be as- 
sociated especially with slow dementias such as epileptic dementia 
and general paralysis. It has been found by Lugaro {loc. cit.) in 
experimental lead poisoning in the cells of the cerebral cortex and 
spinal ganglia of the dog. In diphtheria a considerable accumulation 
of dark pigment occurs in the nerve cells of the human spinal cord. 

The occurrence of pigmentation is associated with the occur- 
rence of chronic chromatolysis. 

The progress of pigmentary degeneration cannot be described 
apart from the other changes which are taking place simultaneously. 
As the pigment increases in amount and assumes pathological pro- 
portions, a slight change takes place in its colour. Normal pigment 
is pale yellow in colour, while the pigment present in excess is 
slightly darker, its colour varying from a rich amber to an almost 
brown shade. 

The increase in the amount of pigment is accompanied by other 
changes, viz., displacement of the nucleus, swelling of the cell, and 
the disappearance of the chromatophile elements. The cell may 
ultimately present the appearance of a globule filled with pigment. 
It is removed by way of the lymphatics either free or enclosed in 
leucocytes. In unstained sections the pigment may be traced along 
the peri-vascular lymphatics. In its progress along the lymphatics 
it appears to become darker in colour. 

The neuroglia forms the supporting framework of the central 
nervous system. It consists of cells with numerous long processes 
which in the spinal cord run mostly on a longitudinal direction. 
Whether it is of mesoblastic or epiblastic origin is not decided. It is 
usually considered to be of mesoblastic origin, but lately, among 
others, Eurich (20) has endeavoured to prove its epiblastic origin. 
The question is raised here simply to state that its origin is disputed 
and dismiss it because it does not enter into the scope of the present 
enquiry. The neuroglia is under certain morbid conditions, capable 
of proliferation, and may along with migrated leucocytes perform 



CHEONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 311 

phagocytic functions. Leucocytic infiltration takes place owing to 
the presence in the tissues of the products of disintegration. The 
leucocytes appear first in the adventitial sheaths of the vessels. 

Proliferation of the neuroglia takes place where the degeneration 
has affected the nerve cells only. In the later stages of a myelitis 
where reparative processes are in progress, proliferation of neuroglia 
generally predominates over the leucocytic infiltration. 

Case I. 

This case was undoubtedly one of so-called " peripheral neuritis " 
due to arsenical poisoning. The cord was examined in the cervical, 
dorsal and lumbar regions. 

The meninges in the cervical region are deeply congested. There 
are no haemorrhages and the walls of the vessels are normal. There 
is no infiltration of the meninges with leucocytes. In the lymphatics, 
between the fibres of white connective tissue composing the meninges 
there is a deposit of brownish-yellow pigment. 

The white matter of the cord is apparently normal, except for 
the distended vessels passing through it. There are no haemorrhages 
in the white matter. 

The grey matter is the seat of several changes. The blood-vessels 
are congested, and all the capillaries are injected. The walls of the 
vessels show no sign of previous pathological change. There are a 
few haemorrhages in the anterior horns and the neighbourhood of 
the central canal. Leucocytes are present in small numbers in the 
peri-vascular lymph spaces. 

Of the large motor cells of the anterior horns a certain number, 
approximately one-sixth, show marked changes. The altered cells 
are swollen, and their outline is not distinct. Together with this 
there is loss of protoplasmic processes. The protoplasm of the cell 
body is in some cases beset with fine vacuoles. 

The nucleus stains less deeply and is displaced from its normal 
position in the centre of the cell, towards the periphery. 

The chromatophile elements in the altered cells are diminished 
in amount. They are present in normal form at the periphery of 
the cell, but in the centre of the cell and around the nucleus they 
have undergone chromatolysis and are scattered throughout this 
region in the form of fine powder. 

In the most anterior part of the anterior horn are a few cells 
which stain very deeply with methylene-blue. 

Very few cells are atrophic and denucleated. 

The pigment in the degenerate cells is increased in amount, and 
darker in colour than normal. If may be found in the peri-vascular 
lymphatics, free or enclosed in cells. 

The neuroglia around the degenerate cells is increased in amount 
and the degenerate cells are eroded by the overlying proliferous 



312 LAWRENCE 

neuroglia cells. These " scavenger " cells lie in facets in tlie nerve- 
cells. 

Besides the local increase in the neuroglia around the degen- 
erate nerve cells, there is a general increase of it throughout the 
white matter. Instead of the uniform distribution of neuroglia 
cells throughout the grey matter, they are in places present in 
groups of four or five and apparently proliferating. 

The central canal of the cord is dilated, but the lining epithelium 
is intact. The central canal contains fine fibrils of fibrin with a 
few (not more than two or three in each section) leucocytes en- 
tangled in its meshes. 

The same changes are present in the Dorsal and Lumbar regions 
of the cord. In the dorsal region, in addition to the above-men- 
tioned changes, there are haemorrhages in the meninges in the region 
of the ventral fissure. 

In the cervical and upper dorsal region the changes are more 
marked in the antero-lateral group of cells. 

Case II. 

Patient, a female, aged 42 years, suffering from arsenical 
poisoning. The immediate cause of death was pneumonia. In 
this case the brain was examined. 

The arachnoid and pia mater are altered. The arachnoid is 
normally non-vascular and consists of fine meshes covered with 
endothelium and enclosing lymph spaces. The arachnoid in this 
case contains small groups of red corpuscles, not enclosed in the 
vessel walls, showing the arachnoid to be the seat of haemorrhages. 
The arachnoid also contains multi-nucleated leucocytes, some of 
which carry granules in their protoplasm. 

The blood-vessels of the pia mater are slightly altered. Taking 
for examination an arteriole in the pia mater, a few leucocytes are 
seen migrating through the vessel wall : a few are present in the 
peri-vascular lymph space. The arteriole is distended with blood 
and some red blood corpuscles are present in small numbers outside 
the vessel walls. 

The veins of the pia mater are distended with blood. The 
haemorrhages from the veins are larger than those from the arteries. 

In the cerebral cortex the capillaries are greatly distended with 
blood. There are small extravasations of blood around them, and 
leucocytes are present in the vessel walls in small numbers and 
in larger numbers in the adventitial lymph sheaths. 

The cellular layer of the cerebral cortex, except for the dilated 
vessels passing through it, is normal. 

The small pyramidal cells stain better than the large pyramidal 
cells. Some have undergone the same alterations as the large 
pyramidal cells. 

The large pyramidal cells are more satisfactorily examined. 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 313 

A large number of these are swollen and vesicular, their borders are 
convex, instead of concave as they normally should be. The out- 
line of some cells are convex instead of concave, their nuclei stain 
faintly with hsematin, and are situated near the periphery of the 
cell. 

The cells in which these alterations of structure are pronounced 
are accompanied by leucocytes or proliferating neuroglia cells lying 
alongside or on top of them. 

In other pyramidal cells the changes are more pronounced; the 
protoplasm of the cell is vacuolated and the nucleus, if present, 7s 
with difficulty distinguishable. These degenerate cells are invaded 
by leucocytes which erode them. 

Stained with methylene-blue, the cells in which the changes are 
least marked show chromatolysis around the nucleus, the chromato- 
phile elements persisting at the periphery or in the processes, where 
these are present. In other cells the nucleus is displaced and the 
chromatophile elements are entirely absent from the cell. 

None of the cells stain deeply and show signs of regeneration. 

The pigment in the cells is increased in amount and darker in 
colour than normal. 

Dorsal Cord. The meninges are congested and the vessel walls 
normal. There is a deposit of pigment in the lymphatics of the 
meninges, but no infiltration with leucocytes and no proliferation 
of the connective tissue cells. The white matter of the cord is 
apparently normal. Its blood-vessels participate in the general 
congestion of the cord. The grey matter is the seat of the well- 
marked changes. The blood-vessels are engorged, especially in the 
region of the anterior horns and the central canal. The vessel walls 
are normal and there is no thrombosis. 

About half of the large nerve cells of the anterior horns show 
more or less deviation from the normal. This deviation is mani- 
fested by swelling of the cell, giving it a convex outline, tortuosity, 
or complete loss of the protoplasmic processes. The chromatophile 
elements in many cells have undergone chromatolysis, around the 
nucleus which is often displaced. The chromatophile elements 
around the periphery are arranged in rounded blocks. There is no 
vascuolation. 

A few cells may be found which have undergone an extreme 
degree of degeneration. They are denucleated, much attenuated, 
and contain a relatively large amount of pigment, some even giving 
the impression of a cell wall containing nothing but pigment. 

The degenerate cells are eroded by leucocytes and the surround- 
ing neuroglia is proliferous. 

In unstained sections pigment may be found free as granules, 
or enclosed in leucocytes. It is seen to follow the course of the peri- 
vascular lymphatics. 

The cells lining the central canal appear to be proliferating. 
Examinations of the cord in the Lumbar regions showed it to be 



314 LAWEENCE 

the seat of changes similar to those found in the dorsal region. The 
number of cells of the anterior horns which had undergone some 
retrograde changes, was, by reason of their greater number, more 
accurately determined. The degenerate cells, counted in several 
sections, averaged 50 per cent. 

Case IV. 

The brain and medulla of this case were examined. The part 
of cerebral cortex examined was from the upper end of the right 
ascending frontal convolution. 

Brain. The meninges are normal except for a slight deposit of 
pigment in them. They are not infiltrated and there are no 
haemorrhages. The cellular layer shows no change. The vessels 
are evident by the deep staining of the endothelial cells. 

The layer of small pyramidal cells is not without evidence of 
change. The changes which some of the cells have undergone are 
change in shape due to swelling whereby the angular character of 
the cell is lost. Loss of processes contributes still more to the 
altered character of the cells. They stain faintly with nuclear 
stains, while in other cells which have undergone degeneration to a 
further extent, the nuclei are absent, the cell protoplasm has a 
granular appearance due to the presence in it of a number of small 
vacuoles. In more advanced cases they may be a large vacuole in 
the cell. 

The changes in the large pyramidal cells are of the same char- 
acter as those in the small pyramidal cells. The number of normal 
cells is noticeably diminished. The changes are more easily seen 
because of the larger size of the cells. In addition to the changes 
noticed in the small pyramidal cells there are changes in the 
chromatophile elements. In many cells the chromatophile ele- 
ments are absent, while in others they are strictly limited to the 
periphery of the cell. The nucleus of these cells is often displaced 
from the centre, though it is rare to find a cell in which it actually 
bulges. 

Except around the degenerate cells, where it is proliferating, 
the neuroglia is not altered. 

The blood-vessels are apparently normal. Their walls are not the 
seat of disease. 

The changes in the medulla closely resemble those in the cerebral 
cortex. In the grey matter the vessels are moderately congested. 
About 50 per cent, of the motor cells are altered in the sections 
examined. The changes which the degenerate cells have undergone 
are briefly " chromatolysis " around the nucleus, displacement of 
the nucleus from the centre of the cell and loss of processes. The 
neuroglia is increased. 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 315 

Case Y. 

The brain and medulla of this case were examined. 

The brain was examined in the region of the ascending frontal 
and ascending parietal lobules in the upper part. 

The meninges are almost normal. The blood-vessels are normal 
and the only abnormality is a slight deposit of pigment in the 
lymphatics. 

The cellular layer is normal. 

The small pyramidal cells are slightly diminished in number; 
of those which are present, some are rounded and swollen and some 
are vacuolated. 

The majority of the large pyramidal cells are altered in structure. 
Minor changes are present in most of the cells. The nuclei 
stain faintly with nuclear stains ; the nuclei are excentrically placed ; 
the chromatophile elements have undergone partial or complete 
chromatolysis. Where the chromatolysis is partial it occurs around 
the nucleus, the chromatophile elements persisting at the periphery 
of the cell. The cell processes are frequently absent, and if present 
they have variocosities on them. In other cells the changes are more 
pronounced. They have lost their nucleus and their shape, and a 
few are present which are barely recognizable as nerve cells. The 
pigment in the nerve cells is slightly increased. In addition to the 
marked diminution in the number of normal cells, the total number 
of nerve cells, normal and abnormal, is diminished. 

A few nerve cells are large and stain deeply with methylene-blue. 

The neuroglia gives evidence, by the close approximation of 
neuroglia cells, of proliferation. This change is marked around the 
degenerate nerve cells, especially in the deeper layer of the cortex 
{i.e., the layer of large pyramidal cells). 

The blood-vessels of the cortex are congested. The adventitial 
lymph sheaths of the vessels are dilated and contain leucocytes. 

The condition of the medulla closely resembles that of the cerebral 
cortex. The blood-vessels of the meninges are well filled but show 
no structural change. In the meninges is a slight deposit of pig- 
ment, but no infiltration and no proliferation of the cellular elements. 

In the grey matter, about half the cells show some degree of 
change pointing to the occurrence of degeneration. The slightest 
changes are peri-nuclear chromatolysis and eccentric position of the 
nuclei. The more pronounced changes are complete loss of nuclei 
and vacuolation of the cells, together with an increase in the amount 
of pigment, which is darker in colour than normal. 

A few cells are enlarged and the chromatophile elements stain 
deeply. 

Case VI. 

In this case an examination was made of the brain, the spinal 
cord in the cervical and lumbar enlargements, and of the ganglion on 
a posterior root from the dorsal region. 



316 LAWEENCE 

Brain. The meninges are moderately infiltrated with leucocytes, 
but the blood-vessels are not congested. 

The cellular layer of the brain is normal. 

The small pyramidal cells have undergone changes in shape due 
to swelling and loss of processes. Many have lost their chromatophile 
elements as such, i.e., they no longer preserve their normal arrange- 
ment in rows parallel to the periphery and do not stain deeply. 

Similar but more obvious changes have taken place in the large 
pyramidal cells. Many are rounded and vesicular. Their processes 
are twisted or have varicosities on their course. Their nuclei are 
eccentrically situated, and in some cells stain so faintly with nuclear 
stains that they are with difficulty recognised. In some cases the 
nucleus bulges on the periphery of the cell. The protoplasm of the 
cells in which these changes are most marked is frequently vacuol- 
ated. The vacuoles in all cases are small. 

The chromatophile elements have undergone solution around the 
nucleus, or throughout the whole cell. 

A few cells contain in their interior an excess of pigment, but this 
is not a constant feature even for the cells which show signs of 
advanced degeneration. The neuroglia is increased generally, and 
especially around the cells which show signs of degeneration. The 
neuroglia cells and leucocytes are exerting their phagocytic function, 
for many of the cells are eroded at several points. Leucocytes are 
present in small groups in the peri-vascular sheaths, and this is 
constant for all the layers of the cortex and for the meninges. 

The spinal cord in the cervical region shows changes very similar 
to those found in the brain. The blood-vessels are congested and a 
few small hsemorrhages have occurred into the meninges. There is 
a peri-vascular infiltration with leucocytes and a deposit of pigment 
in the lymphatics. 

In the cord itself there is general congestion, and this is most 
marked about the anterior horns. There are no hsemorrhages and no 
disease of the vessels. Of the motor cells of this region about 25 per 
cent, vary in some respect or other from normal. The changes which 
are most obvious are the well marked central chromatolysis and 
swelling of the cells. These are accompanied by a remarkable in- 
crease in the pigment of the cell and a displacement of the nucleus. 
The increase in the pigment has in cases attained such proportions 
that some cells appear to be mere globules of pigment, i.e., a cell 
outline containing pigment and no other recognizable structures. 
Free pigment is present in some positions which seem to have been 
the site of a nerve cell, and in unstained preparations it can be seen 
lying in the peri-vascular lymphatics, which are occupied by small 
aggregations of leucocytes. 

The neuroglia cells are increased. 

The lumen of the central canal is obliterated and the lining 
epithelial cells have proliferated. 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 317 

This description applies equally to the appearance of sections of 
tlie cord through the lumbar enlargement. 

The appearance of a section of a ganglion on the posterior root is 
remarkable. All the blood-vessels are intensely congested. 

The connective tissue is increased in amount. It is unusually 
rich in cells, the connective tissue cells apparently proliferating. 

The nerve cells contain a remarkably large amount of pigment, 
which instead of being pale yellow, is in colour a rich amber, and 
in one or two cells where it is present as large granules, the colour 
verges on brown. Pigment of the same kind is present in compara- 
tively large amount in the lymphatics, free or enclosed in cells. 

Wliere the pigment is in excess the chromatophile elements are 
diminished. 

The chromatophile elements of the cells of the posterior ganglion 
have a reticular arrangement with thickenings at the nodes of the 
reticulum. The cells which are altered are subject to the changes 
which occur in the ganglion cells of the anterior horn. The 
chromatophile elements are absent from the immediate neighbour- 
hood of the nucleus. The nucleus is displaced to the periphery of 
the cell and the cell protoplasm is vacuolated. 

Leucocytes appear to be attacking and eroding the cells which 
have undergone the changes just described. 

Case YIL 

This case is one of so-called "peripheral neuritis" in chronic 
arsenical poisoning. The brain, upper part of the medulla and the 
lumbar cord were examined. 

Brain. The meninges contain scattered granules of pigment, 
which, however, is rather scanty. The blood-vessels contain blood, 
are not over-distended, and are normal in structure. There are no 
haemorrhages and no leucocytic infiltration. 

The cellular layer is everywhere normal. 

The small pyramidal cells are mostly normal. A few contain 
excess of pigment and some are eroded by leucocytes. 

A large proportion of the large pyramidal cells are normal. Some, 
however, show signs of degeneration, viz., faintly staining nuclei 
rendering the outline of the nucleus abnormally indistinct and the 
contrast between nucleus and nucleolus less evident than normal. 
Some cells are swollen and rounded and have lost their processes. 
The pigment is increased and is present in inverse proportion to the 
chromatophile granules. Some free pigment is found with several 
neuroglia cells in the immediate vicinity which have taken it up. 
This points to the total disintegration of nerve cells. 

In certain cases the nucleus is displaced, and though the nuclear 
network is preserved the body of the nucleus has not cleared as well 
as in normal brain cells. 



318 LAWEENCE 

The chromatophile elements are diminislied around the nucleus 
and are present in the form of a fine powder. 

The achromatic substance is faintly stained. The protoplasm of 
the body of the cell is vacuolated but the vacuoles are extremely 
small. This feature is not a very prominent one. 

The blood-vessels of the cortex are more congested than those of 
the meninges. The peri-vascular spaces are dilated and contain 
multinuclear leucocytes. 

The medulla is not much affected. The meninges are unchanged. 
The ganglion cells have undergone changes which are slight, amount- 
ing to no more than peri-nuclear chromatolysis and faint staining of 
the achromatic substance. 

Luinbar region of the cord. The meninges are congested. White 
matter is normal. In the grey matter the blood-vessels are congested 
especially in the neighbourhood of the anterior horns. There is 
slight infiltration of leucocytes around the congested vessels. The 
walls of the blood-vessels are not altered. 

The ganglion cells are in many cases unchanged. In this region 
the most obvious change is an increase of pigment. Except for this 
alteration and the slight diminution of the chromatophile elements 
which accompanies it, many cells would appear normal. The lymph 
spaces are dilated in the grey matter and especially in the region of 
the anterior horns and central canal. 

Case YIII. 

Case YIII. was a female, 30 years of age. The nervous symptoms 
were very marked. She was mentally weak. The spinal cord was 
examined in the cervical and lumbar regions. 

Cervical cord. Meninges congested. The congestion has gone 
so far as to lead to haemorrhage. The haemorrhages are very minute 
and are situated in the neighbourhood of the anterior fissure. 

The cells of the grey matter are altered in about 25 per cent, of 
the total number in a single section. The altered cells are swollen, 
and their shape is consequently altered. Their nuclei are displaced, 
and the chromatophile elements have undergone solution in the 
centre of the cell. Simultaneous with the diminution of the 
chromatophile elements is an increase in the pigment of the cell. 
The protoplasm of the body of the cell is vacuolated. 

The neuroglia cells are increased in number around the degenerate 
nerve cells. In addition to this there is a slight general increase in 
the number of neuroglia cells of the grey matter. 

The blood-vessels are congested. There are no haemorrhages in 
the substance of the cord. Leucocytes have collected in the lymph 
sheaths of the vessels. The vessel walls are normal. 

The central canal is dilated, and the lining epithelial cells are 
proliferating. 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 319 

Lumbar Cord. The blood-vessels of the meninges are deeply- 
congested, but there are no haemorrhages. There is a slight deposit 
of pigment in the meninges. The white matter is normal. The 
blood-vessels of the grey matter are congested. The peri-vascular 
lymph spaces are dilated, especially in the neighbourhood of the 
anterior horns and the central canal. This feature is so marked that 
it gives the section a cribriform appearance. 

As in the cervical region, the motor cells are altered in about 
25 per cent, of the whole cells visible in a single section. The 
remainder have undergone varying degrees of change. The cells 
are rounded and have lost some of their protoplasmic processes. 
The nuclei of the cells are excentric and the chromatophile elements 
absent from the centre of the cell and the immediate neighbourhood 
of the nucleus. The pigment is increased, and present even at the 
base of the processes, where it is normally absent. 

Of the cells regarded as normal some stain very deeply with 
methylene-blue. The chromatophile elements take up the stain 
deeply, and appear as large oblong blocks. These are rather larger 
than the normal aggregation of chromatophile elements. This is 
the only respect in which they vary from the normal. They are 
possibly cells which are undergoing repair. 

Cells in which the other signs of degeneration are most pronounced 
are vacuolated. The spaces in which the degenerate cells lie are in 
most cases much larger than the contained cell. 

The neuroglia is proliferating, and there are collections of leuco- 
cytes in the adventitial lymph sheaths of the vessels. 

The central canal is dilated. 

Case IX. 

Patient was a male, aged 61. The cord was examined in the 
dorsal and lumbar regions. 

Dorsal region. The blood-vessels of the meninges contain blood, 
but are not distended. In many of the vessels the tunica intima is 
separated from the tunica media, and a large space intervenes 
between the two layers, except at two points where the intima 
remains attached to the media. The vessel walls are otherwise 
normal; there is no infiltration or proliferation. There is a slight 
deposit of pigment in the lymphatics of the meninges. The pigment 
is in the form of dark, rounded granules. 

In the white matter the axis cylinders stain normally with 
haematein. The neuroglia is normal in amount and regularly 
disposed. In the white matter are numerous wide spaces, in most 
of which a contracted capillary or arteriole lies. These spaces are 
most marked in the region near the central canal. 

In the grey matter the blood-vessels are much the same as in 
the white matter, but the dilatation of the peri-vascular spaces is 
more marked. The nerve cells are scanty, rounded, some denucleated 



320 LAWRENCE 

and without processes. Yery few appear normal. The cells when 
stained by methylene-blue or thionin-blue, appear to be altered. 
The chromatophile elements have undergone solution immediately 
around the nucleus where the achromatic substance is stained a diffuse 
blue. The nucleus is frequently displaced. 

The peripheral zone contains granules which stain with methylene- 
blue, but the granules have not the definite parallel or stichochrome 
arrangement of the normal cells. The granules are arranged as 
rounded blocks. These blocks are less numerous than normal. 

A few cells of the anterior horn stain very deeply, but are not 
increased in size like those undergoing regeneration as described in 
animals some time after section of a nerve). The pigment is slightly 
increased. The nucleolus is occasionally vacuolated. 

Lumbar enlargement. The meninges and white matter are in the 
same condition as those in the dorsal region. 

In the grey matter the dilated lymphatics are a very marked 
feature. The infiltration around the blood-vessels is slight. The 
cells of the grey matter are rounded, convex in outline with faintly 
staining nuclei. Some are overlaid with leucocytes. Changes of a 
degenerative character are observable in about 75 per cent, of the 
nerve cells. 

From some cells the nucleus has completely disappeared. In 
the cells in which the changes have not advanced so far the signs of 
degeneration are peri-nuclear chromatolysis, reduction in the quantity 
of the chromatophile elements, increase in the amount of pigment 
and excentric position of the nucleus. 

The neuroglia of the grey matter is not regularly disposed. In 
many places small groups of three or four neuroglia cells are found 
close together, almost in apposition. The central canal is not distinct. 
The lining epithelium is proliferating. 

Case X. 

The patient was a woman, aged 44 years. She had well-marked 
signs of so-called " peripheral neuritis." She was mentally deficient, 
and died of cardiac failure. 

Brain. The blood-vessels of the meninges are moderately 
distended with blood. The pia arachnoid is infiltrated with leuco- 
cytes, some of which enclose pigment. 

The cellular layer is normal. The blood-vessels are congested. 
The small pyramidal cells are not noticeably altered. Some few 
contain pigment, but they are normal in number and retain their 
normal shape. 

The large pyramidal cells are not so numerous as normal. They 
are swollen and rounded. Their nuclei are either excentrically 
placed, stain faintly with nuclear stains, or entirely absent. They 
contain excess of pigment. The chromatophile elements are 
diminished or absent entirely, so that the cells stain diffusely with 
methylene-blue. The chromatophile elements, if present, are 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 321 

situated at the periphery of the cell. The cells have lost their proto- 
plasmic processes an<l are ero<led by leucocytes and neuroglia cells. 

The neuroglia cells are increased by proliferation around the 
degenerate nerve cells. 

There is an increase in the number and size of the giant cells of 
Betz, in the deeper layers of the cerebral cortex. The blood-vessels 
are congested, and leucocytes have collected in the peri-vascular 
lymphatics. 

The sections were cut from the upper end of the right ascending 
frontal convolution. 

Medulla. The meninges are congested and slightly infiltrated 
with leucocytes. The lymphatics contain pigment. The structure 
of the blood-vessels is unaltered. There are no haemorrhages. The 
motor cells show pronounced changes ; they are swollen, and the 
chromatophile material is limited to a peripheral ring. The nucleus 
is displaced, and in some instances protrudes on the surface. 

A few cells stain very deeply. 

The blood-vessels are congested, especially in the grey matter in 
the neighbourhood of the nerve cells which have degenerated, and 
the adventitial lymph sheath contains aggregations of leucocytes. 

Lumbar Cord. The meninges are as in the medulla. The white 
matter is normal except for the passage of congested vessels through 
it. The grey matter is deeply congested, and there is oedema around 
the vessels, but this is not so marked as in Case IX. The large 
motor cells are normal in about 75 per cent, of those visible in one 
section. The rest show central chromatolysis, with displacement of 
the nucleus and proliferation of the neuroglia cells immediately 
around. The pigment is normal in amount. The cells lining the 
central canal are proliferating. 

Case XI. 

A special interest attached to this case, which occurred in 1902 
at Halifax. Apart from its general interest (the report of it evoked 
a leader in the Lancet) it has a special interest in this place because 
the material obtained from it was examined in the fresh state. The 
material examined in the prece<iing cases, as before mentioned, 
remained for some weeks in the hardening fluid before 
it was examined microscopically. In this case the post-inortem 
examination was made on February 6th. The spinal cord 
was placed at once in 4 per cent, solution of formalin, and remained 
in it for three days. The hardening was completed in successively 
increasing strengths of alcohol, and it was imme<liately embe<lded in 
celloidin. Examination of the sections showed that widespread 
changes, exactly resembling in character the changes found in the 
preceding cases, were present. The cord was examined in the 
cervical and lumbar regions. The appearances were similar, and 

w 



322 LAWRENCE 

the following description of the lumbar region applies equally to the 
cervical region : — 

The Tneninges are deeply congested, and are the seat of not 
inconsiderable extravasations of blood. They are not infiltrated with 
leucocytes. In the lymphatics are small deposits of pigment (not 
derived from the blood). In addition to their distension the blood- 
vessels are slightly altered in structure. Here and there in the large 
blood-vessels endothelial cells can be found which are swollen and 
project into the lumen of the vessel. 

The white matter is not obviously altered. 

The grey matter, on the contrary, is unmistakably altered and to 
a considerable extent. All the blood-vessels are strongly evident by 
reason of their congestion. The blood-vessels are not tortuous, nor 
is their lumen narrowed or occluded. Changes in the endothelial 
cells of the intima are only found in the larger vessels of the 
meninges. The peri-vascular spaces of the vessels are dilated, but 
do not contain aggregations of leucocytes. This oedema, however, 
is not a very obvious change, as it is in Case IX. The motor cells 
are diminished in number. Very few are absolutely normal in 
appearance. The less apparent changes are : slight diminution in 
the amount of the chromatophile elements. In more advanced cases 
the nucleus is excentric in position and the nucleolus vacuolated. 
The chromatophile elements form a ring at the periphery. In some 
of the cells the nucleus actually bulges on the surface of the cell 
(see Fig. 1). The pigment of the cells is increased and situated at 
the pole opposite to the displaced nucleus. Very few cells have 
retained their normal angular character. They are almost all 
swollen and rounded, and have lost their processes. Where the 
chromatophile elements have undergone solution in the centre of the 
cell the achromatic substance stains deeply with methylene- or 
thionin-blue. The cell protoplasm contains small vacuoles. 

In advanced cases the cell is seen to be globular, denucleated and 
filled with pigment. The chromatophile elements are usually 
entirely absent. If they persist they are extremely scanty and exist 
as fine grains scattered throughout the cell body. 

The neuroglia is possibly increased, but not enough to warrant a 
definite assertion on this point. 

The cells lining the central canal are proliferating. 

For control experiments the brain and spinal cord of a patient 
who had had no nervous disease, and whose age was 50, were 
examined. (It was not possible to obtain the brain and spinal cord 
of a patient who died as the result of accident.) They were hardened 
in exactly the same manner as the organs from cases of arsenical 
poisoning. On examination it was found that the changes found in 
the corresponding organs of cases of arsenical poisoning were absent. 
The vascular changes were absent, the cells were normal in shape, 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 323 

had retained their processes, and their chromatophile elements had 
the normal arrangement (Fig. II.) They were consequently regarded 
as normal, and constantly used for reference to avoid errors of 
interpretations. 

The part of the brain examined in all cases was the upper portion 
of the ascending frontal convolution and ascending parietal convolu- 
tion, an area round the upper end of the fissure of Rolando, and 
roughly corresponding to the "leg area." 

The white matter of the cord was not examined by methods 
specially devised to show degeneration. 

Causation of Chang^es in the Brain and Spinal Cord. 

Passing in review the former cases one cannot fail to be struck 
by the almost monotonous regularity with which the same changes 
are found. In no case were the signs of degeneration entirely 
absent, although the extent of the degeneration varied with each 
case. In addition to this, one or other feature is specially pro- 
nounced in some of the cases, e.g., Case II. is characterised by wide- 
spread and advanced degeneration of the nerve cells and by extreme 
degree of congestion. In Case VI. the pigmentation of the nerve 
cells and the deep congestion of the cord are the most prominent 
features, the others being overshadowed but not absent. In Case 
YII. the changes are slight and require a more careful search to 
discover them. In Case VIII. there is some oedema, but it is trifling 
in comparison with that in Case IX. 

The changes described above, which are constant to the whole 
series are those typical of degeneration and inflammation, it being 
one of the canons of Pathology that noxious influences which cause 
degeneration in a delicate and susceptible tissue cause proliferation 
in a more resistant tissue. In this connection Ziegler (21) may be 
aptly quoted : — " Inflammation is frequently caused by ... . de- 
generation, since the more intense local degenerations are apt to be 
combined with exudate processes and in the later stage with hyper- 
plastic proliferation. It is thus impossible to draw a sharp line 
between simple degenerations and inflammations; and accordingly 
the term myelitis has been applied both to processes that are char- 
acterised by inflammatory exudation and to others that begin as 
degenerations and only in the later stages of their course are com- 
bined with morbid exudation and proliferation." We are then 
justified in describing the changes found in the spinal cord as 
myelitis. In searching for a possible cause for this myelitis we 
are unfortunately met with a serious difiiculty. All the patients 
died of general wasting or of lung complications, both of which are 
in themselves capable of causing degeneration in the central 
nervous system. But where the degenerative changes are so con- 
stant in character one is justified in asking for a cause which is 
common to the ser'es. 



324 



LAWRENCE 



The recognised causes of degeneration are : — 

1. Marasmus or general wasting. 

2. General anaemia. 

3. Disuse. 

4. Local disorders of circulation — ^isclisemia — caused by : 

(a) Arterio-sclerosis. 

(6) Hyaline degeneration of the blood-vessels. 

(c) Thrombosis. 

(a) Embolism. 

(e) Haemorrhage by rupture or by diapedesis. 

5. Poisons produced in the body in the course of many 

diseases : 

Diabetes. 

Pernicious anaemia. 
Syphilis. 

Chronic tuberculosis and many other bacterial dis- 
eases. 

Poisons introduced from without : 

Ergotin. 

Arsenic. 

Lead. 

Mercury. 

Alcohol. 

6. Trauma. 

7. Variations of atmospheric pressure. 

8. Elevation of temperature (as shown experimentally). 

All the patients were slightly or much emaciated, but in Case 
XI., where the changes were well marked, the patient was fairly 
well nourished, although he was said to have lost flesh just before 
his death. 

General anaemia as a possible cause of degeneration is not diffi- 
cult to dispose of. The blood in seven of the cases was examined 
by Dr. Muir. The results were : — 



Haemoglobin. lied cells. 

112 per cent. ... 6,075,800 

111 per cent. ... 4,727,600 
93 per cent. ... 4,843,700 

112 per cent. ... 5,200,800 
91 per cent. ... 5,017,800 
75 per cent. ... 4,915,100 
71 per cent. ... 4,553,500 

It will be seen from the above table that so far 
being poor, in many cases it is exceptionally rich 
and red cells. 



Case I. 




Case 


II. 




Case 


III. 




Case V. 




Case VI. 




Case 
Case 


VIII. 
X. 





White cells. 

4,560 

6,050 
20,000 
12,690 

3,690 

4,310 
25,890 

from the blood 
in haemoglobin 



CHEONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 325 

Disuse is not a common factor in the possible causes of degenera- 
tion in the above cases. 

In examining the specimens, no local disorders of circulation 
are to be found. The vessels are healthy and normal in structure. 
In Cases I. and II. haemorrhages are found. The causes of 
haemorrhages in the spinal cord are classified by Leyden (22) ac- 
cording to their etiology thus : — 

(a) Arterio-sclerosis. 

(6) Trauma. 

(c) Diminished pressure of air (Caisson disease). 

(d) Spontaneous (arising from physical exertion or sup- 

pressed menstruation). 

(e) Intoxications. 

Of these the first four can be immediately dismissed. The fifth 
possible cause of haemorrhage comes in group 5 of the causes of 
degeneration. 

The group of poisons as possible causes of degeneration cannot 
be dismissed so summarily. It is unlikely that all the patients 
had either diabetes or syphilis and there is no record of symptoms 
of these diseases during life, nor of syphilitic lesions being found 
post-mortem. The brain and spinal cord are certainly not the site 
of local syphilitic lesions. 

Tuberculosis remains as a feature nearly common to all the series 
except Cases IV. and XI. Case IV. had old fibrous adhesions which 
were not definitely said to be tubercular. Case XI. had a thickened 
pleura which was calcified at one spot. There were no tubercles 
in the lungs or on the peritoneum. Five of the cases had wide- 
spread tubercular lesions, i.e., in the lungs, on the pleura and on 
the peritoneum. Of the eleven cases, eight had active tuberculosis, 
one had healed phthisis at both apices with " signs of renewed 
activity," and two had lesions which might have been due to tuber- 
culosis at a previous date, but no signs of active tuberculosis were 
found post-mortem. Hence, tuberculosis can scarcely be con- 
sidered to be quite constant throughout the series. On the other 
hand, as a complication of pulmonary tuberculosis "peripheral 
neuritis is not common" (Osier (23)). If "peripheral neuritis" 
were common in tuberculosis it would assume epidemic proportions 
all the year round, and we may assume that whatever the role of 
tuberculosis in causing degeneration of the cells of the cord, it 
cannot be regarded as the cause of the nervous symptoms present 
in each case during life. As tuberculosis and degeneration of the 
cord are so constant in the series, it may be that they have a 
common cause. Tuberculosis is not the cause of the degeneration. 
In support of this theory is the fact that in ten cases there were at 
the time of death active pathological changes in progress in the 
lungs and that in five of these there was unmistakable evidence of 



326 LAWEENCE 

the spread of tuberculosis to other organs, in particular the peri- 
toneum. This evidence of the invasion of other organs than the 
lungs by tubercle bacilli finds its most satisfactory explanation 
assuming that the resisting power of the tissues has been lowered 
and that tuberculosis is a "terminal infection." An attempt will 
be made in Part II. to show that degeneration of a similar kind 
can be produced experimentally in cases where it is possible to ex- 
clude tuberculosis altogether. 

Of the poisons which may be introduced from without, arsenic and 
alcohol were common to the series. The patients all took alcohol in 
large quantities at the time when beer contained arsenic in con- 
siderable proportion. The action of alcohol alone, on the central 
nervous system is, according to Berkley (24), to produce changes in 
the vessels. The changes are : swelling of the endothelial cells of 
the intima, denucleation of some of the cells of the media, and very 
little change in the adventitial coat of the vessels. The vessels 
become tortuous and have small aneurysmal dilatations on their 
course. Degenerative changes in the nerve cells are always consecu- 
tive to local vascular changes. He never found degeneration except 
in the immediate neighbourhood of vessels that were occluded by 
plugs of fibrin or swollen endothelial cells. Although it is impossible 
in this place to exclude alcohol altogether, against alcohol as the 
cause of the changes may be adduced the indirect evidence that 
although the public continue to take alcohol in the form of beer in 
large quantities, yet, since public attention was directed to the 
contamination of beer by arsenic and the contamination removed, the 
cases of " peripheral neuritis " have markedly decreased. 

The other causes of degeneration : Trauma, etc., were not opera- 
tive in a single case. The balance of the evidence then is on the 
side of arsenic, but whether the toxic effect is increased by its as- 
sociation with alcohol cannot be definitely asserted as the result of 
examination of the human cases. 

One point in connection with the changes caused by arsenic is 
worthy of discussion : What is the fate of the nerve cells which have 
undergone degeneration? It has been shown experimentally by 
Marinesco (25) and others that the nerve cell undergoes chromatolysis 
as the result of section of the nerve processes. The changes can be 
observed as early as the third day after section of the processes, and 
reach their height from eight to ten days later. These experiments 
were made on animals. The hypoglossal nerve on one side was 
divided or torn across in several animals. By killing the animals at 
varying lengths of line after division of the nerves, and examining 
the hypoglossal nucleus on the side of the divided nerve, the above 
results were arrived at. By allowing the animal to live as long as 
105 days the degenerate cells in the nucleus of origin had recovered 
so completely that it was impossible to distinguish between the 
hypoglossal nuclei of the two sides. 

In the human cases many of the cells had undergone changes so 



CHEONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 327 

profound that it seems impossible that they could recover. Where 
the cells have lost their nuclei, have undergone diffuse chromatolysis 
and are filled with pigment, it seems unlikely that they can recover, 
and in fact in many cases they are being attacked by phagocytic cells 
and are in process of being removed. Free pigment, too, exactly 
resembling that of nerve cells may be found in the peri-vascular 
lymphatics — that is probably the result of the total disintegration of 
nerve cells. Whether the loss of nerve cells is ever made good by 
proliferation of the remaining cells cannot be definitely asserted, but 
in the series of human cases no evidence of such proliferation was 
found in a single case. It is therefore reasonable to admit that the 
changes in the nerve cells were not secondary to change in the nerves. 

The central canal of the cord is in one case dilated and contains 
fibrils of fibrin with one or two leucocytes in the meshes. The canal 
in the other cases is surrounded by several layers of cells which seem 
to have resulted from proliferation of the lining epithelium. The 
dilatation of the central canal may be due to exudation, for patho- 
logical exudations are richer in fibrin than normal lymph or cerebro- 
spinal fluid. The proliferation of the cells is interesting because of 
the close developmental relation of the cells of the epidermis to the 
cells of the central canal — both are epiblastic in origin. The action 
of arsenic on the skin is well-marked. Proliferation of the cells 
lining the entral canal, has been noticed by M. M. Buichi et 
Varnali (26) in arsenic poisoning. 

Deductions. 

The changes observed in the above series of cases indicate : — - 

1. That the degeneration of nerve cells and inflammatory reaction 
in the spinal cord and brain were due to a poison circulating in the 
blood and not to local vascular changes. 

2. That the poison was not produced in the body by any patho- 
logical process, and that in all probability it was contained in the 
arsenical beer which had been taken by all the patients. 

3. That the efficient cause of the degeneration of nerve cells was 
either alcohol or arsenic, probably the latter. 

4. That the degeneration of the nerve cells may proceed to such 
an extent as to lead to their total destruction. 

PAET II. 
Experimental Poison ing^. 

To supplement the observations made on the human cases a 
number of experiments were made on rats. The rats were kept on a 
low diet and were given arsenious acid in watery solution alone, or 
mixed with alcohol. The purpose of the experiments was to imitate 
as closely as possible the conditions under which arsenic was taken 



328 LAWRENCE 

by the human subjects and also to vary the amount of the constituents 
so as to determine if possible the relative effect of alcohol and arsenic. 
Two of the rats F. & G. took arsenic without alcohol. 

Symptoms. It was not possible to produce by experimental 
poisoning symptoms of local paralysis. It is admittedly difficult in 
any case in animals to determine the existence of paralysis. The 
most noteworthy symptom was drowsiness. Just before death the 
animals sometimes became fierce and aggressive. They took not un- 
kindly to beer, even when it contained arsenic. All lost weight 
during the time they were taking arsenic. The details of the doses 
and duration of experiments are given in each case. 

Case A. 

A rat weighing 117 grammes was given Salford arsenical beer 
containing ^/gth grain of arsenious acid per gallon. The quantity of 
beer given, corresponded to what 2 gallons daily would have been to 
a man of average size (140 lbs.). In the course of 102 days the rat 
took 1372 c.c. of arsenical beer containing arsenious acid to the total 
amount of 0003430 grammes or ^/aoth grain. At the end of that 
time the animal was kept on ordinary food and water or arsenic-free 
beer and then killed. The above quantity of arsenical beer was 
given in 93 doses, equal to about ^/yth of the body weight of the 
animal, which would correspond to about 2 gallons of beer daily for 
a man of average size. The original weight of the animal was 117 
grammes. The weight at death was 783 per cent, of the original 
weight. 

The spinal cord was examined in the cervical region. The vessels 
of the meninges are normal in structure. They are congested. The 
white matter of the cord is normal. The vessels of the grey matter 
are congested. There is cedema around the larger vessels and aggre- 
gations of leucocytes in the peri-vascular lymph sheaths. The nerve 
cells of the grey matter stain faintly with nuclear stains. The nucleus 
is not often eccentric and does not react normally to staining re- 
agents. The substance of tTie nucleolus is in some cells dispersed 
throughout the nucleus. The cells lie in spaces which are consider- 
ably larger than the contained cells. The cells are connected to the 
walls of these spaces by tendril-like processes giving the impression 
of the cells having shrunk and retained their connection at several 
points. The protoplasm contains numerous minute vacuoles. The 
chromatophile elements are present. Where chromatolysis has 
occurred it is diffuse. It does not occur regularly in the centre of the 
cell as in the human cases. A marked feature is the presence of 
"scavenger cells" around the altered nerve cells. 

The posterior root ganglion comes in the plane of section. It is 
deeply congested and a few of the ganglion-cells have undergone 
diffuse chromatolysis. 



CHEONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 329 

Case B. 

The rat, which, originally weighed 190 grammes, took, in the 
course of 80 days, 00807000 grammes of arsenious acid. It was 
given Salford arsenical beer to which arsenic was added. It lived 
89 days. Its weight at death was 71'5 per cent, of its original 
weight. The medulla and upper region of the cord were examined. 

Medulla. The meninges are slightly congested and slightly 
infiltrated with leucocytes. The vessels of the grey matter are 
slightly congested. The nerve cells are altered in shape. The 
processes are blunt or absent. Between the processes the outline 
of the cells is convex. Some cells have no nuclei. Their protoplasm 
is vesicular, and has a " bubbly " appearance. The ragged outline 
of some of the cells is due to erosion by " phagocyte " cells. The 
neuroglia is slightly increased. There is some infiltration with 
leucocytes around the capillaries. 

Spinal Cord: Dorsal region. The anterior horns appear 
attenuated. The blood-vessels of the meninges are slightly congested. 
There are a few small haemorrhages. The motor cells are reduced in 
number. The surviving cells are shrunken and dwindled. Their 
outline is irregular and ragged, and the processes are absent. The 
protoplasm is vacuolated, and the nuclei stain faintly. The cells, 
especially those of the anterior cornua, are extremely wasted, and in 
many the greater part of the cell is occupied by a large vacuole, 
which pushes the chromatophile elements aside. The chromatophile 
elements may retain their parallel arrangement; more frequently 
they are dispersed throughout the protoplasm in fine grains. 

The ganglion on the posterior root is the seat of intense congestion 
and numerous haemorrhages. The ganglion cells are less markedly 
altered. 

Case C. 

A rat, weighing originally 181 grammes, was given bitter beer 
to which 10 per cent, alcohol was added and arsenious acid 7 grains 
to the gallon. Death occurred after 35 days from poisoning. The 
total arsenic taken in that time was 00176000. Weight at death was 
67 per cent, of the original weight. 

The cord was examined in the cervical region. 

The meningeal vessels are normal in structure, deeply engorged 
with blood, but there are no haemorrhages. There is evidence of 
migration of leucocytes from the vessels. 

The white matter is streaked with congested vessels, the walls 
of which stain rather deeply with nuclear stains. 

The grey matter is more deeply congested than the white. All 
the capillaries are closely packed with blood-corpuscles. There is no 
evidence of infarction or arteritis. There are several trifling 
haemorrhages; a few groups of red cells are found not enclosed in 



330 LAWRENCE 

vessel walls. The motor cells are altered in shape, and their outline 
is ragged. Their processes are distorted, their nuclei placed excen- 
trically and their protoplasm vacuolated. The cells of the anterior 
horn stain more deeply than the others. They contain large vacuoles 
and the protoplasm between the vacuoles retains the stain with great 
tenacity. The parallel arrangement of the chromatophile material 
is retained in the protoplasmic processes. 

Some cells, especially in the antero-lateral group, are uniformly 
stained, and the chromatophile elements in these cells are in the form 
of a fine powder. The cells are vacuolated, but the vacuoles are 
small. 

Case D. 

This animal was underfed. It took 634 c.c.'s of soo H ooo watery 
solution of arsenious acid administered in 64 daily doses. Total 
amount of arsenious acid taken was 0'0045 grammes or 0'069 grains. 
This would correspond to about 43 grains of arsenious acid taken in 
64 days by a man of average weight (140 lbs.). During the last 
ten days 5 per cent, of pure ethylic alcohol was added to the solution. 
The animal died of poisoning at the end of 65 days. 

The spinal cord was examined in the dorsal region. 

The blood-vessels of the meninges contain blood, and there is 
slight leucocytic infiltration around them. There are no haemorr- 
hages. 

The white matter is normal. 

Grey matter. The anterior cornua seem slightly atrophied. All 
the cells stain faintly with hsematein. They are distorted in shape, 
and their processes are lost. Some cells have no nuclei, but contain 
in their protoplasm dark granules which look like fragments of 
nuclei. The outline of the cells is frequently indistinct and eroded. 
The cell protoplasm is vacuolated, and the chromatophile elements 
are irregularly disposed in one or two large blocks between the 
vacuoles or scattered as fine powder throughout the cell. The grey 
matter is infiltrated with leucocytes. 

Case E. 

The same as D, only 5 per cent, of alcohol (absolute ethylic) was 
added to the fluid. The arsenic was given during the first 18 and 
last 10 days of the experiment (28 days out of 64). The total amount 
of arsenic administered was therefore proportionately less in this 
case than in D. On the other hand, the amount of alcohol given 
was much more considerable. The original weight of the animal 
was 113 grammes. At death it weighed 69 per cent of the original 
weight. The total weight of arsenic taken was 0' 0031950 grammes 
(in daily doses during 65 days). Killed on the 66th day. 

The meningeal vessels are filled; structure normal. There are 
some small haemorrhages. 



CHEONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 331 

The white matter where it adjoins the grey matter is slightly 
infiltrated with leucocytes. 

In the grey matter there are very few normal cells. The cells 
stain indifferently with nuclear stains, and lie in spaces much 
larger than the contained cell. In every section a few spaces are 
discoverable which are empty and have probably been occupied by 
nerve cells. The surviving cells are rounded, and have lost their 
processes. Their protoplasm is vacuolated. The nucleus is in some 
cases swollen (relatively to the size of the cell) ; in others it is irregular 
and shrunken. The nucleus of a nerve cell is frequently pale and 
indistinct in outline. The altered cells are eroded by leucocytes. 
In the less altered cells the chromatophile elements retain their 
parallel arrangement in the protoplasmic processes. With advancing 
degrees of degeneration the chromatophile elements are disposed as 
irregular blocks throughout the cell, usually persisting longer at the 
pole opposite to the axis cylinder, and later the chromatophile 
elements are visible as a fine powder, and the nucleus is situated at 
the periphery of the cell. The capillary vessels are dilated. Their 
walls are normal. Around some of the capillaries leucocytes are 
aggregated in small groups. 

Case F. 

A rat, weighing 189 grammes, took in 81 days 00632000 grammes 
of arsenic in alcohol-free beer. It lived 91 days, and death occurred 
from poisoning. At death it weighed 58" 1 per cent, of its original 
weight. 

The spinal cord was examined in the lower third of the cervical 
region and in the upper dorsal region. The condition in the two 
regions was exactly alike. 

The meningeal vessels are congested, and there are a few small 
haemorrhages. 

The white matter is normal. 

The nerve cells of the grey matter are well preserved. They are 
large, and their processes are in a good state of preservation. Their 
nuclei stain fairly well with nuclear stains. However, there are 
some cells which are attenuated, which have short blunt processes, 
and of which the nuclei stain faintly and are excentrically placed. 

The blood-vessels are distended with blood, and there are a few 
haemorrhages. There is some infiltration with leucocytes around 
the vessels. 

Case G. 

A rat weighing 168 grammes was given a fxf^Tr solution of 
arsenious acid in water. The arsenic was taken during 01 days. The 
animal lived 91 days and took altogether 00320960 grammes of 
arsenious acid. Died of poisoning. Weight at death 57 per cent, of 
original weight. 

Upper part of dorsal cord examined. Meningeal vessels engorged. 



332 LAWEENCE 

There are lisemorrliages in the neighbourhood of the nerve roots. 
The connective tissue about the seat of haemorrhage has undergone 
hyaline degeneration. 

The white matter is normal. Blood-vessels congested. 

The grey matter is characterized by marked vascular changes. 
All the vessels are distended with blood and in the neighbourhood 
of the grey commissure and the anterior cornua the congestion has 
led to haemorrhage. The capillary walls stain deeply and the en- 
dothelial cells are swollen and numerous. 

The nerve cells are small, stain faintly, have lost their nuclei 
and processes. The protoplasm contain large vacuoles. The pro- 
cesses where present appear twisted and varicose. Leucocytes are 
found in apposition to the degenerate nerve cells. 

The outstanding feature of the experimental series is that the 
changes are more prominent and wide spread than in the human 
series. In addition, the changes are not exactly of the same type. 
Chromatolysis in the centre of the cell is not present, nor is the 
eccentric position of the nucleus so constant, unless it is pushed to 
the periphery by vacuoles in the centre of the cells. Vacuolation 
is a striking feature in the experimental series, but in the human 
series a large vacuole was seldom found. The circulatory changes 
are more prominent in the experimental than in the human series ; 
the haemorrhages in particular being more numerous and larger. In 
one case G, the endothelial cells forming the capillary walls seemed 
swollen and increased in number beyond possibility of error of 
observation. "When comparing the results of experimental poisoning 
with those of " beer poisoning," it must be remembered that the rats 
took doses which translated into terms of their body weight were 
very large. 

It is exceedingly difficult to convey by means of a description an 
idea of the relative degrees of pathological change. As several 
factors in the experiments vary, all the cases do not admit of com- 
parison. 

Days during Length Weight at 

which of Total arsenic death in % 

Arsenic life taken in or original 

Cases. Vehicle. administered, days. grammes, weight. 

Case A. Salford Arsenical Beer 93 102 00034300 78-3% 

CaseB. Beer 80 89 00307000 715% 

Case C. Beer or 10% alcohol. . . 35 35 00176000 670% 

Case D. Water, alcohol last 10 

days 65 65 00045150 54-5% 

CaseE. Water +5% alcohol ... 28 64 0-0031950 690% 

CaseF. Alcohol-free Beer 81 91 00632000 58-1% 

CaseG. Water 61 91 00320960 570% 

Case A most closely resembles the human cases. Case B resembles 
Case A, except that the doses of arsenic administered were, much 
larger. The changes are very marked in Case B. There is wide- 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 333 

spread degeneration and small lisemorrhages in tlie cord and larger 
ones in tlie posterior spinal ganglion. 

Case C stands almost alone because of the short time the animal 
lived. The total amount of arsenic taken was more than half as 
much as was taken by B, and during less than half the time. The 
conditions found in the cord were very intense inflammation and 
degeneration. Some of the cells were fairly well preserved, and this 
probably represents an early stage of the changes found in sections 
from other cases. F and G are very much alike, and the condition 
of the spinal cord was better in F than in G and better in B where 
the arsenious acid was given with beer contaiiting alcohol, although 
F took twice as much arsenious acid as B or G. 

All the animals lost flesh to some extent. This loss was least in 
Case A in which also the cord was least changed. The relation of 
loss of weight to degenerative changes in the cord does not hold 
throughout the series. Though F lost weight considerably more 
than D, the cord in F was much less altered. Emaciation therefore 
does not correspond in degree to the changes in the cord. During 
the experiments the animals did not suffer from any inter-current 
disease. 

Deductions. 

1. Arsenious acid alone is capable of producing degenerative 
changes in the nerve cells of the spinal cord. 

2. Ceteris paribus the changes are greater with larger doses of 
arsenious acid. 

3. Arsenious acid does not act "by producing local vascular changes. 

4. The changes produced in artificial poisoning by arsenious acid 
are independent of any other disease. 

From the human cases it was concluded that the changes were of 
a constant kind, varying in degree only, throughout the series; that 
the changes were characteristic of degeneration and inflammation ; 
that of the possible causes of such changes only three, arsenic, alcohol 
and tuberculosis, were entitled to a claim to be considered the 
essential cause of the degeneration; that of these three tuberculosis 
was not quite constant, being totally absent in one case, doubtful and 
certainly quiescent in another, and with " slight signs " of renewed 
activity in the third; that on the other hand, tuberculosis might 
better be explained as a "terminal infection" following diminished 
resistance of the tissue. 

The experimental animals suffered from no disease and degenera- 
tive changes were constant in them all. What was the role of 
alcohol in the experimental series, the writer was unable to deter- 
mine. The changes in the blood-vessels, said to be the cause of the 
degeneration produced by alcohol, were absent. 

Conclusions. 

1. Arsenious acid causes well marked degenerative changes in the 
cells of the spinal cord and of the posterior roots ganglia. 



334 LAWEENCE 

2. In clironic arsenical poisoning the role of the alcohol is not 
known. It is probably not the essential cause of the degenerative 
changes but it may be an adjuvant. 

3. The degenerative changes found in the cord during chronic 
arsenical poisoning are not due to inter-current disease, nor to local 
vascular changes. 

It remains to me to express my indebtedness to Dr. Judson Bury 
for the loan of books. His unique knowledge of the literature of 
"peripheral neuritis" was unfortunately only available at the eleventh 
hour. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

1. Nissl, F. "Ueber die Veranderungen der Ganglienzellen am 

Facialskem des Kaninchens nach Ausreisung der Nerven." 
Allg. Zeits. f. Psychiatrie, 1892. Bd. XLYIII., S. 197. 

2. Dana. Bradn, 1887. Vol. IX. 

3. Popoff. Virchow's Archiv. Bd. 93. 

4. Kreysig. Virchow's Archiv. Bd. 152. 

5. Vulpian. " Sur les maladies nerveuses." 1879. 

6. Jseschke. "Ueber Lahmung nach Arsenikvergiftung." Thes. 

Breslau, 1882. 

7. Lancereaux. Gazette des Hospitaua;, 1883. 

8. Naunym. Berlin, hlin. Wochensch, 1886. 

9. Alexander. "Klin. Med, Exp. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der 

Lahmung nach Arsenikvergiftung." 1882. 

10. Becq. Archives de Neurologic. 

11. Henschen. "Arsenical Paralysis." Upsala, 1893. 

12. Silberman. Deutch. Med. Wochensch, 1888. No. 25. 

13. Barrs. B.M.J., October 4th, 1893. 

14. Osier. Bulletin of Johns HopJcins Hospital, April 30th, 1893. 

15. Held. Archiv. f. Anat. u Physiol. Anat. Abth, 1895, S. 396. 

16. Turner. Braiji, 1897. Vol. 20. 

17. Lugaro. Riv. di patol. nerv. e ment, 1897. 

18. Schafer, " The Nerve Cell as the Basis of Neurology." Brain, 

1893. 

19. Marinesco. Centralhlatt. f. Nervenheilk. u. Psychiatrie, 1898. 

20. Enrich. Brain. Vol. 20. 

21. Ziegler. " Special Pathological Anatomy." Sec. VI., par. 90. 

22. Leyden. Zeitschrift. f. Jdin. Medicin., 1887, 2, 225. 

23. Osier. " Principles and Practice of Medicine." p. 312. 

24. Berkley. Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases, 1896. No. 4. 

25. Marinesco. Presse Medicals, October 5th, 1897. 

26. M.M. Buichi et Varnali. Archives de Neurologic, 1897. Vol. 4. 

27. Delepine. "Report on Beer, Brewing and other Materials." 

Salford, 1900 and 1901. Royal CoTnmission on Arsenical 
Poisoning. Vol. I. (Evidence received in 1901) London, 1903. 
Vol. II. (evidence received in 1902—1903) London, 1903. 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 335 

APPENDIX. 

Case I. 

P.K., male, aged 40. Ill since November, 1900. Coryza, 
nausea, pain in tlie calves and feet, later swelling of the legs and 
abdomen. Cough, haemoptysis in December. "Pins and needles" 
in hands and feet, heat and numbness, loss of power. Skin darker 
since December. Admitted February 6th, 1901. Present condi- 
tion (February 15th, 1901) : well-marked peripheral neuritis, much 
ascites, large right pleuritic effusion. Deeply pigmented. Moderate 
pyrexia. Tapped right pleura; five pints. Died February 25th, 
1901. (Dr. Muir.) 

Post-mortem,. Rather emaciated and deeply pigmented. 
Heart : Right-sided dilatation ; atheroma of the aorta. Lungs : No 
tubercle, double pneumonia (immediate cause of death, which was 
impending from exhaustion). Pleura: Numerous small tubercles 
with fibrinous adhesions and serous effusion, both sides. Peri- 
to7ieum: Numerous small tubercles, much matting together of 
intestines, ascites. Dr. Moore considered this a direct extension 
from the pleura through the diaphragm, which was much affected. 
StOTnach : Grastritis with submucous haemorrhages. Kidneys : 
Congested. Swpra-renals : Apparently normal. Spleen : Large, 
soft, congested. Liver: Mixture of fatty degeneration and 
cirrhosis; congested. Pelvic organs: Normal. Cervical glands: 
Deeply pigmented. Brain : Normal. 

Case II. 

C.McD., female, aged 42. History of illness since September, 
1900. Nausea, pains and numbness of hands and feet. Abdomen 
swollen for three months. Pigmentation for six months. Ad- 
mitted January 18th, 1901. Present condition (January 30th, 
1901) : Deeply pigmented ; marked peripheral neuritis, ascites, 
temperature normal. Died February 12th, 1901. 

Post-viortein. Rather emaciated, deeply pigmented;. Heart : 
Small, with soft flabby walls. Lungs : Healed phthisis left apex, 
showing slight signs of fresh activity; pneumonia right apex, red 
hepatization, with immediate cause of death which was impending 
from exhaustion. Pleura : Numerous small miliary tubercles 
and adhesions, both sides. Peritoneum : Early tubercular peri- 
tonitis, much ascites. Liver : A mixture of fatty degeneration 
with slight cirrhosis, which Dr. Moore (Pathologist to the Man- 
chester Royal Infirmary) considers very characteristic of arsenical 
poisoning. Kidneys : Chronic granular, moderate degree. Spleen : 
Slightly enlarged. Pelvic organs : Normal. Supra-renal bodies : 
Normal to naked eye inspection. Cervical glands : Deeply pig- 
mented. 



336 LAWRENCE 

Case III. 

J.H.C., male, aged 44. Cough for four months. Numbness, 
"pins and needles," and weakness of legs for six weeks. Admitted 
February 12th, 1901. Present condition (February 14th, 1901): 
Deeply pigmented; well-marked peripheral neuritis. Temperature 
raised, generally 100 "-lOl''. 

Post-mortem. Emaciated, deeply pigmented. Heart : normal, 
early atheroma of the aorta. Lungs : Extensive phthisis with 
cavitation left side, early phthisis right side. Pleura : Left side, 
thick, large serous effusions with fibrinous adhesions and scattered 
tubercles. A few tubercles on right side. Peritoneum : Ascites, 
some small and early tubercles. Kidneys : Normal. Adrenals : 
Normal in appearance; one feels hard to the touch. Spleen: Not 
remarkable. Liver: Small cirrhotic. Pelvic organs: Normal. 
Cervical glands : Deeply pigmented. Death from exhaustion. 

Case IY. 

Patient, a female, aged 52. Occupation, hawker. Was a beer- 
drinker, and used to get drunk every Saturday night. Was an 
inmate of Withington Workhouse. 

Post-mortem. Skin slightly pigmented about mammse; much 
subcutaneous fat. Old pleural adhesions; base of both lungs 
congested and consolidated. Chronic bronchitis; muco-pus in 
bronchi. Catarrhal gastritis; slight haemorrhages in walls of 
stomach. Both kidneys give evidence of parenchymatous changes; 
right, normal in size; left, small owing to deficiency of two lobules. 

Case V. 

Female, aged 46. Ill with vomiting, pains and tingling of hands 
and feet for six weeks before admission (December 4th, 1900). 
Present condition (January 31st, 1901) : Marked peripheral neuritis 
ascites. Deeply pigmented. Irregular pyrexia ranging from 
normal to 102°. Phthisis left apex. Died February 13th, 1901. 

Post-7nortem. Rather emaciated, deeply pigmented. Heart : 
small, and fairly normal. Lungs : Phthisis left apex, with cavita- 
tion ; congested. Pletira : Left pleura adherent. Peritoneum : 
early tubercular peritonitis, much ascites. Kidneys : Fairly normal, 
rather firm. Liver: Mixture of fatty degeneration and cirrhosis. 
Pelvic organs : Normal. Brain: Normal. Cervical glands : deeply 
pigmented. Death from exhaustion. 

Case VI. 

Female, aged 53. Ill since December, 1900. Coryza, vomiting 

and diarrhoea, pains in hands and feet, also " pins and needles." 

Admitted February 13th, 1901. Present condition (February 24th, 

1901) : Extensive broncho-pneumonia, probably tubercular. Irregular 



CHRONIC ARSENICAL POISONING 337 

pyrexia, ranging from 100° to 103-6°. Well-marked peripheral 
neuritis and erythro-melalgia of feet. Pigmented. Died March 7th 
1901. 

Post-mortem. Moderately nourished and pigmented. Heart: 
Normal. Lungs : Small miliary tubercles, more at bases than else- 
where. No extensive consolidation, and no cavitation. Pleura: 
Small tubercles, no effusion. Peritoneum: A veiy few small 
tubercles. Kidneys: A few small tubercles. Adrenals: Normal. 
Liver : Slight fatty cirrhosis. Brain : Normal. Cervical glands : 
pigmented. Death from exhaustion and cardiac failure. 

Case VIII. 

Female, aged 30. Mentally weak. Admitted October 15th, 1900, 
with severe peripheral neuritis. Present condition (February 11th, 
1901) : Wasting paralysis and contractures of the legs, trophic 
changes. Wasting, loss of power and trophic changes in hands. 
Died March 31st, 1901. 

Post-mortem. Emaciated. Heart: Small and soft. Lungs: 
Very extensive cavitation both sides, very foul. Pleura : Very 
thick and adherent, no tubercles. Peritoneum : Normal. Stomach : 
chronic gastritis. Liver : " Nutmeg," with some fatty change. 

Case IX. 

Patient, male, aged 61. Much emaciated and deeply pigmented; 
pericardial adhesions. Heart : Flabby, fatty degeration ; necrosis 
of 6th rib. Pleura : Adhesions. Cheesy tubercles in right apex ; 
consolidation of lower lobe of right lung. Collapse of left lung. 
Nutmeg liver. 

Peri-nephritis, numerous caseous purulent foci (? tubercular) in 
both kidneys. 

Case X. 

Female, aged 44. Admitted October i2nd, 1900, with well- 
marked peripheral neuritis, slight pleuritic effusion (left). Mentally 
deficient. Present condition (February 5th, 1901) : Wasting and 
paralysis of legs. Hands wasted, loss of use, trophic changes in skin. 
Died suddenly, February 24th, 1901. 

Post-mortem. Heart : Slightly dilated, right side thin and soft. 
Lungs : Healed phthisis both sides, with some slight signs of renewe<l 
activity. Pleura: Adhesions on left side. Peritoneum: Normal. 
Liver : Fatty. Adrenals : Normal. Stomach : Numerous small 
haemorrhages on the mucous membrane. Brain : Normal. Cervical 
glands : Not pigmented. Death from cardiac failure. 

Case XI. 
T. L., male, aged 54, lurryman. Admitted January 15th, 1902. 
On admission temperature normal. Skin deeply pigmented. " Pins 



338 LAWEENCE 

and needles " in hands and feet. Weakness of legs. Spastic gait. 
Lately feet had been blistered and painful. Voice husky. Tempera- 
ture normal till pneumonia developed. 

Post-mortem. Deep pigmentation of skin; oedema and keratosis 
of feet. Pericardium : " Milk-spots." Heart : Aortic valve 
incompetent; valve segments thickened, rigid and shortened. Fresh 
" vegetations." Pleura thickened from old pleurisy. Calcified spot 
on pleura of right lung. Fresh adhesions, easily broken down. 
Pneumonia of right upper lobe. Peritoneum: No ascites, no 
tubercle. Liver : Fatty. Kidneys : Interstitial nephritis. Adrenals : 
Normal. Cervical glands : Pigmented. Brain : Normal. Death 
from pneumonia. 



The Nerve Cells of the Central Nervous 

System in Cases of Malignant 

Tumours. 



BY 



R. LAWRENCE, M.D., Cii.B. (Vict). 



The Nerve Cells of the Central Nervous 
System in Cases of Malignant Tumours. 



The purpose of tliis enquiry was to examine the Central Nervous 
Systems of patients dying of malignant disease. The cases were 
investigated irrespective of the site of the character of the primary 
growth— epithelioma or carcinoma — ulcerated or covered with skin. 

All the patients whose Central Nervous System was examined 
died in the Christie Hospital. The microscopical work was carried 
out at the Public Health Laboratory. 

Conditions under wiiich the patients died. 

None of the patients had symptoms of organic nervous disease. 
Many had been bed-ridden for some time preceding death but had 
not had paralysis. Twenty-five of the patients died after an illness 
characterised by progressive wasting and weakness and increasing 
inability to take food. Their illnesses were otherwise uneventful. 
In many of these, the organs, except those invaded by new growth, 
appeared to be normal. The others had small patches of broncho- 
pneumonia, which, however, did not seem sufficient to cause death. 
Of the other nine patients, one (No. 25) died within twenty-eight 
hours of an operation and had septic pneumonia in both lungs. 
Three others (13, 26, 34) died of septic pneumonia. Two died of 
hgemorrhage from large blood-vessels eroded by new growth. One 
patient (No. 32) had an epithelioma of the oesophagus. She was 
able to take only very little food, and may be said to have died of 
starvation. Two of the patients (Nos. 19 and 20) had ursemic con- 
vulsions shortly before death. 

The average age of the patients at the time of death was forty- 
nine. Many had taken large doses of morphia for some time 
preceding death. Had the results of the microscopical examination 
of the spinal cords been less constant a search would have been made 
for any correlation between the changes found in the spinal cords and 
the amount of morphia taken. 

Post-mortem features of the spinal cord. 

The post-Tiiortem examination was made in all but the last case 
within twenty-four hours of the death of the patient. 

The spinal cords were removed after cutting through the laminae 
of the vertebrie. The cord was raised by seizing the dura-mater witli 
forceps after dividing the nerves with a knife. 



342 LAWEENCE 

The ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves were ex- 
posed by chipping away the pedicles of the vertebral arch. They 
were removed carefully by dissecting along the posterior spinal nerves 
without touching the ganglia with forceps. 

There were no signs of disease in the spinal cords. The vessels 
were well filled with blood owing to their relatively dependent posi- 
tion. (The bodies lay supine on the mortuary table during the time 
which intervened between the death of the patients and the post- 
7nortein examination.) 

Post-mortem features of the brain. 

Of all the brains examined none showed any abnormality at the 
time of examination. There was no sign of previous disease. The 
blood-vessels at the occiput were distended with blood. In one case 
(No. 30) there was a small osteoma of the frontal bone which de- 
pressed the underlying brain substance slightly. 

The spinal cords were cut into transverse sections with a razor. 
These were about "3 or "4 cm. thick. They were at once placed in 
alcohol or a saturated solution of mercuric chloride in normal saline 
solution. 

From the brains a thin transverse section was removed from the 
upper part of the ascending frontal convolution. This was put in 
alcohol or the mercuric chloride solution. 

Methods. 

The material used was put into the fixing fluid within twenty- 
four hours of the death of the patient except in the case of No. 34. 
In this case forty hours elapsed between the death of the patient and 
the fixing of the tissues used. The exact procedure was: — Fix in 
75 per cent, alcohol, transfer to 90 per cent, alcohol for twenty-four 
hours, then to absolute alcohol; change the absolute alcohol twice. 
Transfer to chloroform until the blocks of tissue appear translucent, 
then to chloroform containing some paraffin in solution. Finally, 
embed in paraffin melting at 54°C. 

In the other method, the thin slices of spinal cord or brain were 
placed in a saturated solution of mercuric chloride in " normal saline" 
solution. They remained in this for six hours, were washed in water 
for twenty-four hours, and then placed in 75 per cent, alcohol 
coloured with a few drops of Gram's iodine solution. This iodine 
solution was added until the colour was permanent. The pieces were 
then transferred to stronger alcohol until they reached absolute 
alcohol. They were subsequently soaked in chloroform and em- 
bedded in paraffin. 

Serial sections of the spinal cords were cut and as many as six 
mounted on one slide so that a large number of nerve cells were 
available for examination. The sections were cut with a Minot 
microtome, working at "two teeth" for the spinal cords and brains. 



NEEYE CELLS IN MALIGNANT DISEASE 343 

and at "three teeth" for the posterior root ganglia and the semi- 
lunar ganglia. 

The slides used were coated with a thin layer of egg albumen 
solution (1 in 10) and dried in the paraffin oven. 

The sections were floated on warm water to spread them out flat. 
They were then placed on the slides and dried in the paraffin oven, 
for several hours. By this means they were firmly fixed to the 
slide. 

The paraffin was dissolved off with xylol, the xylol washed off 
with absolute alcohol, and the slide with its adherent sections placed 
for a few minutes in water. 

Then the slide was placed in a simple watery solution of toluidin 
blue until the sections were overstained. The length of time of 
staining, and the strength of the solution of toluidin blue are not 
very important, as the sections have to be decolourised to the exact 
point for examination. 

The sections were washed with absolute alcohol until the blue 
colour no longer comes away in clouds in the alcohol. 

They were cleared in xylol and mounted in xylol-canada-balsam. 
Washing in a mixture of aniline oil and absolute alcohol was 
omitted. This step is unnecessary, and introduces additional chances 
of error. 

In the earlier cases the spinal cords were examined in the Cervical 
Dorsal and Lumbar regions. Finding no difference in the state of the 
nerve cells in these regions the examination of the spinal cord in the 
later cases was confined to the Lumbar region. The nerve cells in the 
anterior horns of the Lumbar region are particularly numerous. 

The study of nerve cells stained by this method specially aimed 
at the chromatic elements of the cells. Sections so stained do not 
show degeneration of the white matter of the cord even if it be 
present; but such features as congestion, inflammatory infiltration 
with leucocytes, if present, are readily observed. 

Characters of nerve cells. 

The large cells of the anterior horns, stained with toluidin blue, 
will be described first. 

They are large in size and pyramidal in shape and have several 
processes. In normal cords, even in very thin sections, some pro- 
cesses can always be found veiy long. In abnormal, i.e., degenerated 
cords, the cell processes often seem to be broken off. At any rate, 
they cannot be traced far from the cell. Other processes, of course, 
pass out of the plane of the section. 

The outline of nerve cells of the anterior horn is concave between 
the points from which the processes arise. 

A convex outline indicates swelling of the cell. The position of 
the nucleus is central. An excentric position denotes degeneration. 



'344 LAWEENCE 

The nucleus may be so far displaced from its normal central position 
as to bulge on the surface. This abnormal position is usually asso- 
ciated with other signs of degeneration. 

In hardened specimens, the nerve cell lies in a space which it does 
not completely fill. When, however, a nerve cell is swollen and 
rounded, it almost completely fills the space in which it lies. 

In sections stained with toluidin blue the cell protoplasm is 
differentiated into two parts — one which takes the stain deeply, and 
another which stains very faintly or not at all. The stainable or 
chromophilic elements consist of granules scattered throughout the 
unstainable protoplasm. The granules have a fairly definite shape 
and arrangement. The coarser granules are angular, often spindle- 
shaped, and lie with their long axis parallel to the outline of the 
nerve cell. They are more conspicuous at the periphery of the cell 
than around the nucleus. The smaller granules are rounded and lie 
nearer to the centre of the cell. The arrangement of the coarse 
granules gives the cell a " striped " or " tigroid " appearance. 




These granules stain deep Prussian blue. They are absent from 
the axis cylinder process and the eminence from which this takes 
rise. They are present in the dentritic processes arising from the 
cell. 

Pigment is present in the cells of the anterior horns. It is said 
to increase in amount with the age of the patient. It appears as 
golden-yellow granules. 

The nucleus stains very faintly or not at all. The nucleolus 
stains uniformly a very dark blue — almost violet colour. 

The nerve cells of the posterior root ganglia are large and round 
or oval in shape. The nucleus is centrally placed, and they have one 
cell process. As in the multi-polar cells of the spinal cord, the 
nucleolus stains deeply, the rest of the nucleus faintly or not at all, 
and the cell protoplasm consists of a stainable and an unstainable part. 
The stainable part appears as small granules regularly disposed 
throughout the protoplasm. Except at the periphery of the cells 
these granules are of small size. The cells have not the distinguish- 
ing "tigroid" appearance of the cells of the anterior horn of the 
spinal cord. 



NEllVE CELLS IN MALIGNANT DISEASE 345 

Changres in nerve cells. 

The earliest changes are found in the chromophilic granules. 
These may brealv down into a fine powder which is scattered through- 
out the cell protoplasm, so that the cell appears to be diffusely 
stained. The breaking down of the chromophile granules is called 
chromatolysis. In extreme degrees of chromatolysis the chromo^ 
philic granules disappear from the cell body entirely. Chromatolysis 
is interpreted as a sign of degeneration of the nerve cell. 

Other changes have been mentioned : displacement of the nucleus 
and swelling of the nerve cell. 

The chromophilic granules are present in the dentritic processes 
of nerve cells. The presence here of these stained granules makes 
these processes visible. In degenerated nerve cells these processes 
cannot be traced. 

Examination of a Section of Brain. 

Case 24. The brain substance for examination was taken from 
the upper end of the ascending frontal convolution. 

No macroscopic evidence of disease wa& found at the yost-mortevi 
examination. 

Examined microscopically, the section showed no evidence of 
inflammation. The blood-vessels were normal. The cells of the 
superficial layer were stained blue. 

The small pyramidal cells were stained blue and were angular in 
shape. On account of their small size, their protoplasmic contents 
were difl&cult to examine. 

The larger pyramidal cells appeared normal. They were angular 
in shape, and their processes were well preserved. The chromophilic 
matter of the cell protoplasm appeared normal. 

The large cells of lietz lend themselves for examination. They 
resemble the large cells of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, and 
the existence of changes in their minute structure is less open to 
difference of opinion than the existence of minute changes in the 
smaller cells of the cerebrum. These large cells of lietz were found 
to be normal. Their outline between the processes wa« concave ; the 
nucleus was centrally placed, and the chromophilic material in the 
protoplasm was present in large blocks. The protoplasm between 
these blocks was clear and unstained. The striped or tigroid appear- 
ance of the cell was well-marked. 

Examination of a Section of Sfinal Cord. 

Case 33 (P.M., book No. 79). Lumbar region of the spinal cord. 
A large number of sections were examined in series, and a large 
number of nerve cells were closely scrutinised with a view to finding 
degenerative changes. 

The general features of the cord are normal. The meninges 
aTB normal. There is no congestion of the blocxl-vessels, no iuflam- 



346 LAWEENCE 

matory exudate from tliem, and no oedema. Tlie gray matter of the 
cord contains many large cells. These stand out prominently by 
reason of this staining. The nuclei of other cells — neuroglia cells, 
epithelial cells lining the central canal, and endothelial cells of 
capillaries — retain the blue stain, but the other structures are de- 
colourised. 

The nerve cells have their normal angular shape, with long nerve 
processes and a concave outline between the processes. They are 
not swollen, and do not fill up the space in which they lie. 

Their nuclei are centrally placed. 

The chromophilic granules are normal — large, angular, and well- 
defined. They give the nerve cells a striped appearance. There is 
no sign of chromatolysis. 




/ 






«.» 



Case 30 (76). 
Fig. II. — Hardened in corrosive sublimate. Stained with toluidin blue. Two nerve 
cells normal in appearance. 

1. Angular outline. 

2. Long dendritic processes. 

3. Centrally situated nucleus. 

4. Chromatophile granules. 

5. Nerve cell does not completely fill the space in which it lies. 

6. Neuroglia cells and nuclei of endothelial cells of capillary vessels 

The dentritic processes are stained for some little distance from 
the cell. 

There are no aggregation of leucocytes and no signs of prolifera- 
tion of neuroglic cells around the nerve cells. 

In the large number of cells examined, one was found which had 
a rounded outline, less than the usual number of processes, an ex- 
centrically-placed nucleus, and chromatolysis of its granules. The 
chromatolysis was not extreme. The granules at the periphery of 



NERVE CELLS IN MALIGNANT DISEASE 347 

the cell were clear and distinct, but around the nucleus they had dis- 
appeared, and the protoplasm stained uniformly a pale blue colour. 

The semi-Iu7iar ganglia and the ganglia on the posterior roots 
of the spinal nerves were examined. In a single section of these 
a large number of nerve cells are available for examination. They 
were found to be normal. Their chromophilic granules were distinct 
and their nuclei centrally situated. 

An earlier case (No. 20), re-examined for comparison with the 
later cases. Cord at the region of the lumbar enlargement. Men- 
inges normal. No congestion of blood-vessels and no signs of 
inflammation. 

The cells of the anterior horn were stained blue. They were 



.\ 





A B 

Case 31 (77). 

Fig. III. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. 

A. A perfectly normal nerve cell. 

B. The chromophilic material not quite so clear as normal. 

angular in shape, not swollen, had well-marked dentritic processes 
and a centrally-situated nucleus. The cell protoplasm was occupied 
by blue-stained granules of large size giving the cell the usual tigroid 
appearance. The protoplasm between the granules was clear and 
unstained. 

The cells did not fill up the spaces in which they lay. In the 
supporting tissue around, there was no change. The condition of 
this spinal cord exactly resembles the condition of the spinal cords 
later in the series. 

To describe in detail more cases would be to multiply the above 
descriptions. Instead, illustrations are given of the nerve cells 
from four consecutive cases. The nerve cells were examined with 
a Reichert No. 7a objective and a Zeiss No. 2 eye-piece. 



348 



LAWRENCE 








A B 

Case 32 (78). 
Fig. IV. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. Two nerve cells. In A there is an 
absence of chromophilic material from the axis cylinder process. 






/ 



Ca.se 32 (78). 
Fig. V. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. Normal nerve cell. 






^ ^ 



Case 33 (79) 
Fig. VI. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. Degenerated nerve cell. 

1. Nucleus displaced. 

2. Chromatolysis 

3. Swelling of the nerve cell 

4. Processes are not well-marked 



NEIIVE CELLS IN MALIGNANT DISEASE 



349 




i> ^P*. 



Case 33 (79). 

Fig. VII. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. Normal nerve cells from the spinal 
ganglia. 




Case 33 (79). 
Fig. VIII. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. Normal nerve cell. 



^1^ 




A B 

Case 34 (80). 

Fig. IX. — Corrosive sublimate; toluidin blue. 

A. Marked degenerative changes : rounded outline, loss of processes. 

excentric nucleus, chromatolysis. 

B. Normal shape. Chromophilic granules not clear owing to diffuse staining 

of the "unstainable" protoplasm. 



350 LAWRENCE 

Effects of Post morteTn changes. 

Case 34 (80). More than forty hours elapsed between the death 
of this patient and the time when the spinal cord was placed in the 
fixing fluid. 

General features were normal. 

The nerve cells examined were numerous. They were angular 
and had long and well-marked dentritic processes. Their nuclei 
were centrally placed, but were faintly tinged with violet. 

The chromophile granules were stained blue, but were not so 
clear and sharply defined as normally they are. In addition, the 
" unstainable " protoplasm had taken on the stain, though much 
less deeply than the chromophilic granules. This feature of the 
staining gave the cells a blurred appearance. (Fig. IX. B.) This 
is the only departure from the normal. The other features of 
normal nerve cells — shape, long processes, and centrally placed 
nucleus — were present. 

Almost all of a large number of cells examined answered to 
this description. 

One was found in which the nucleus was displaced from the 
centre to the periphery, and the centre of the cell stained diffusely 
while the granules at the periphery stained clearly. (Eig. IX. A.) 

The sections of the semi-lunar ganglia and the posterior root 
ganglia showed that the small chromophilic granules had almost 
entirely disappeared, and the cells had stained diffusely a pale blue 
colour. 

In some of the cells there was distinct displacement of the 
nucleus to the periphery. 

Evidences of secondary degeneration. 

Cases 25 and 26 were examined by Marchi's method. The 
cords were first placed in 4 per cent, formalin until they were hard 
enough to allow very thin slices to be cut from them. These thin 
slices were placed in Marchi's fluid for a week, washed in water, 
and finally placed in 75 per cent, alcohol. They were transferred 
to increasing strengths of alcohol until they reached absolute 
alcohol. Erom alcohol they were transferred to cedar oil and then 
to paraffin. Sections were cut in paraffin. 

No degeneration was found in the white matter of the cords. 

Conclusions. 

Almost all the cells of the central nervous system are normal 
in cases dying of malignant disease. 

The few abnormal cells found are probably not more numerous 
than those found in any case after death. (It is said that in every 
case a few degenerated cells will be found if the spinal cord be 
examined by this method of staining. — Ewing : Medical Record, 
April 9th, 1898.) 



NERVE CELLS IN MALIGNANT DISEASE 351 

Appendix. 

Appendix : Summary of Cases Examined. 

1. (P.M. book, No. 2.) J.F.D., female : age 47. Carcinoma of 

left breast — recunence after operation. Secondary de- 
posits in liver; jaundice. Brain and spinal cord ex- 
amined. 

2. (4.) M.W., male : aged 58. Epithelioma of oesophagus. No 

pneumonia. Spinal cord examined. 

3. (6.) W.S., male : age 44. Epithelioma of tongue. Secondary 

deposits in cervical glands. Broncho-pneumonia of right 
lung. Brain and spinal cord examined. 

4. (7.) W.P.G., male : age 60. Epithelioma of lip. Secondary 

deposits in cervical glands. No pneumonia. Spinal cord 
examined. 

5. (11.) J. P., female : age 51. Carcinoma of breast — recurrent. 

Secondary deposits in almost all organs of body. Brain 
examined. 

6. (17.) B.M., male: age 53. Epithelioma of skin of neck; 

metastases in cervical glands and lungs. Broncho-pneu- 
monia. Brain examined. 

7. (22.) W.F., male : age 70. Carcinoma of rectum. Metastases 

in lymphatic glands and liver. Brain examined. 

8. (25.) L.C., female : age 48. Carcinoma of breast. Secondary 

deposits in lymphatic glands, brain, liver and lungs. Brain 
and spinal cord examined. 

9. (26.) A.O., male : age 61. Epithelioma of laiynx. Broncho- 

pneumonia. Brain and spinal cord examined. 

10. (29.) C.C, male : age 45. Epithelioma of floor of mouth. 

Deposits in cervical glands. Broncho-pneumonia. Brain 
and spinal cord examined. 

11. (33.) J.M., male : age 32. Carcinoma of rectum. Metastases 

in lymphatic glands, lungs, liver and skin. Brain and 
spinal cord examined. 

12. (34.) A.H., female : age 63. Carcinoma of breast. Metas- 

tases in glands, pleurae and diaphragm. Brain and spinal 
cord examined. 

13. (35.) W.K., male : age 56. Epithelioma of tongue. Metas- 

tases in cervical glands. Death from pneumonia. Brain 
and spinal cord examined. 

14. (38.) _ E.W., male : age 47. Epithelioma of scrotum. Deposits 

in inguinal glands. Death from haemorrhage. Spinal 
cord examined. 

15. (39.) A.W., female : age 64. Epithelioma of clitoris. Brain 

and spinal cord examined. 



352 



LAWRENCE 



16. (40. 

17. (41. 

18. (45. 

19. (46. 

20. (50. 

21. (51. 

22. (52. 

23. (54. 

24. (60. 

25. (70. 

26. (71. 

27. (72. 

28. (74. 

29. (75. 

30. (76. 



E.G., male : age 48. Endothelioma of neck. Tuber- 
culosis of lungs, intestines and liver. Brain and spinal 
cord examined. 

J.P., male : age 48. Epithelioma of larynx. Spinal 
cord examined. 

H.B., female : age 56. Carcinoma of breast. Secondary- 
deposits in glands, lungs, adrenals and kidney. No pneu- 
monia. Brain examined, 

H.Y., female : age 40. Carcinoma of uterus. Broncho- 
pneumonia. TJrsemia. Brain and spinal cord examined. 

J.T., male : age 60. Epithelioma of floor of mouth. 
Secondary growths in glands, liver and bones. Brain and 
spinal cord examined. 

W.M., male : age 34. Epithelioma of tongue. Deposits 
in cervical glands. Death from haemorrhage. Spinal 
cord examined. 

A.W., female : age 70. Carcinoma of breast. Secondary 
growths in lungs. Tuberculous pleurisy and peritonitis. 
Brain and spinal cord examined. 

M.H., female : age 39. Carcinoma of breast. Secondary 
growths in glands, lungs, heart, adrenals and ovaries. 
Brain examined. 

T.C., male : age 67. Carcinoma of rectum. Congestion 
of lungs at bases. Brain and spinal cord examined. 

E.S., female : age 40. Carcinoma of cervix uteri. 
Secondary growths in pelvic and abdominal glands, liver, 
left kidney and lungs. Suppurative nephritis of right 
kidney. Broncho-pneumonia. Spinal cord examined. 

M.H., female : age 45. Epihelioma of the oesophagus. 
Secondary deposits in the glands of the anterior medi- 
astinum. Septic pneumonia of left lung. Spinal cord 
examined. 

F.McM., female : age 27. Carcinoma of cervix uteri. 
Metastases in pelvic abdominal mesenteric and deep 
inguinal glands and in liver. Pneumonia of right lung. 
Spinal cord examined. 

E.H., female : age 58. Carcinoma of left breast. Metas- 
tases in pectoral muscles, axillary glands and adrenals. 
Spinal cord examined. 

J.W., male : age 40. Epithelioma of lip, with enlarged 
cervical glands. Died within 48 hours of operation for 
removal of glands. Broncho-pneumonia of both lungs. 
Spinal cord examined. 

D.C., female : age 59. Carcinoma of cervix uteri. 
Secondary deposits in pelvic and lumbar glands. Hydro- 
nephrosis of right kidney. Uraemia. No broncho-pneu- 
monia. Spinal cord examined. 



NERVE CELLS IN MALIGNANT DISEASE 353 

31. (77.) M.L.C., female : age 52. Carcinoma of riglit breast — re- 

currence after operation. Metastases in skin, axillary- 
glands, pleura, lungs, pericardium, liver, supra-renal 
glands and bone. Brain and spinal cord examined. 

32. (78.) CD., female : age — . Epithelioma of pharynx. No 

metastases. Broncho-pneumonia of middle lobe of right 
lung. Spinal cord examined. 

33. (79.) M.A., female : age 50. Carcinoma of right breast ; 

widely ulcerated ; perforated chest wall ; spread to right 
lung, pericardium, and left lung. Fatty degeneration and 
enlargement of the liver. Spinal cord examined. 

34. (80.) J.R., male : age 61. Epithelioma of floor of mouth. No 

metastases. Broncho-pneumonia of lower lobe of right 
lung. Spinal cord examined. 



Address on Some Points Concerning 
Human Intestinal Parasites. 

BASED UPON THE RESEARCHES OF THE AUTHOR. 



BY 



EDOARDO PERRONCITO, 

Professor of Parasitology in the University of Turin; Professor of General Pathology and 
Morbid Anatomy, Royal School of Veterinary Medicine, Turin, etc. 



Address on Some Points Concerning Human 
Intestinal Parasites* 

based upon the researches of the author. 

Gentlemen, — 

I wish, in the first instance, to express to you how deeply I 
appreciate the honour which the Council of the Victoria University 
of Manchester has done me by inviting me to be present at the 
inauguration of the new Public Health Institute, erected in this 
celebrated town, and by conferring upon me the Degree of Doctor of 
Science. I have also much pleasure in addressing you upon one of 
my most favourite studies. Before beginning I desire to offer to this 
illustrious University and to my friend Professor Delepine my best 
wishes for the success of this Institute of Public Health. 

Animal parasites are of special interest to England, whose 
immense possessions over the seas, endowed as they are with natural 
beauties of all kinds, offer in many instances conditions suitable for 
the development of many parasites which are the cause of numerous 
diseases. 

Introduction. 

There was a time when all diseases were supposed to be due to 
worms, and Varrone held that in marshy districts there lived minute 
animals which, when introduced into the organism, caused severe 
and often fatal diseases. 

Modern researches have shown that these infinitely small, and 
often invisible* organisms or microbes, as they are now called, are 
not all animal, but that many of them belong to the vegetable 
kingdom. 

Animal parasites belong to the Protozoa, Worms, Arachnides and 
Insects. These parasites have many biological and bio-chemical 
characters in common. 

Effects of temperature upon animal parasites. 

Owing to the properties of the essential constituent of animal 
parasites, viz., protoplasma, they do not resist a temperature exceed- 

* Delivered on the occasion of the opening of the Public Health Laboratory, and of 
the conferring upon the Lecturer of the Degree of Doctor of Science, Honoiis Causa, 
of the University of Manchester. 

* Microbes may, generally speaking, be divided into ultra-visible (or ultra- 
microscopic) and visible microbes. 



358 PERRONCITO 

ing 48° to 50^ C. for more than five or ten minutes ; this I was 
able to show by a long series of experiments begun in 1874 and 
continued till the year 1878. Most of these experiments have been 
referred to by my regretted colleague Spencer Cobbold in his works. 

Animal parasites are killed by freezing. The eggs of insects may, 
as had already been shown by Reaumur, resist temperatures of 
— 25° to — 30°C., but animal parasites in their more advanced stages 
of development, for instance, cysticerci, larvoe of intestinal worms, 
etc., do not survive the freezing temperature. 

These facts have important bearing upon hygiene, for cold is not 
only suitable for the preservation of food, but also for the destruction 
of many animal parasites. 

Effects of fermentation and putrefaction. 

A moderate amount of fermentation or decomposition of food (or 
of the contents of the intestine) may favour or even be necessary to 
the development of intestinal parasites, but prolonged putrefaction 
is fatal to them. This fact is of importance in connection with the 
changes taking place in cesspools or in sewage treated in various 
manners and used for the irrigation of land in the neighbourhood of 
large towns. 

In this address I will deal only with those intestinal parasites 
which I have studied specially. 

PROTOZOA. 

Lannblia intestinalis (Blanchard, z888). 

In children and adults, as well as in various animals such as 
rats, mice, rabbits, and even dogs, one finds frequently a kind of 
Lamblia, also known under the names of Cercoiuonas intestinalis 
(Lambl, 1856), Diinoi"plius Muris (Grassi, 1819), Megasto ma entericum 
(Grassi, 1882). This parasite is one of the Flagellata most frequently 
observed. 

The Lamblia intestinalis is pyriform in shape, with a curved 
anterior extremity; it is provided with a deep groove looking like a 
sucker or mouth. 

A median depression extends from the anterior to the posterior 
extremity or tail of this protozoon. Three or four pairs of flagella 
spring from the borders of the median depression and a last pair is 
attached to the caudal extremity. The length of this parasite is 
variable, usually 14)u, to 15/* , it may reach 20 /x and more. (Fig. 1.) 

The Lamblia is usually found attached by its mouth or sucker to 
the epithelial cells of the duodenum or other parts of the small intes- 
tine. The posterior part of the parasite remains free and motile. 

I have observed that when these parasites are numerous their 
presence is associated with intestinal troubles such as disorders of 
digestion, pains in the hypochondriac regions, constipation alter- 



HUMAN INTESTmAL PARASITES 



359 



nating with diarrlicea, in the latter case the stools are pale and 
foetid. 

If the fluid faecal matters are examined immediately after they 
have heen evacuated the parasites are found in variable numbers and 
motile; their movements are very rapid when the material is kept 
warm. It is difficult to see the flagella distinctly, even when the 
preparation is stained with iodine dissolved in a watery solution of 
iodide of potassium. When the faecal matters are soft, and some- 
times even when they are fluid, one finds a variable number of 
peculiar translucent, spherical, or oval corpuscles, measuring from 
10 or 12 to 17/A in diameter, besides the motile forms already des- 
cribed and their immobile chitinous skeletons. 

These corpuscles are provided with an external membrane 
through which the contents, composed of flagellated cells, can be 




a, b, c, d, e, Lamblia intestinalis in different positions. 
/, g, h, i, J, Encapsulated forms.) 

seen. During the period of constipation these corpuscles are the 
only form of the parasite found in the faeces. By lengthy researches 
I have been able to show that these corpuscles are encysted or en- 
capsulated Lamblias (Megastomas). My observations,* communi- 
cated to the Royal Academy of Medicine of Turin (13th May, 1887), 
have been confirmed since by Grassi and by others : they have 
proved that Flagellata found in the intestine of man and various 
animals become encysted and acquire the characters of durable 
spores which become the means of propagating the disease. The 
presence of perfect Megastomas in the fluid stools and their replace- 



* E. Perroncito. Incapsulamento del Megastoma intestinale. Giornale della R. 
Academia di Medicina di Torino, 1887. 



360 PEREONCITO 

ment by the encysted form in the solid stools indicates the relation 
between the two forms of the parasite. When one studies the 
Megastomas of rodents (Mus decumanus, Mus rattus, etc.), it is 
possible to determine the parts of the intestine where the evolution 
of the parasite takes place. It is in the large intestine that, under 
ordinary conditions, the parasite becomes encysted; by the time it 
leaves the body in the faeces the cyst has generally an oval shape and 
is provided with a distinct translucent membrane through which 
flagella, nuclei, and other elements can be seen. When I described 
for the first time the cystic form of Megastomas in man I had already 
observed that this gradual encystment was taking place in the large 
intestine. The formation of cysts can only be completed when the 
contents of the intestine are not evacuated rapidly, i.e., when there 
is constipation. When there is diarrhoea the parasites are eliminated 
in earlier stages of development. 

Along with the Megastomas present in diarrhceal stools obtained 
either direct from the intestine or after evacuation during life, I 
have noticed the common cercomonas, very active and provided with 
two or more flagella. It has appeared to me that certain cysts 
resembling those of the Megastomas belonged to these parasites ; they 
differ from the Megastoma cysts by their more irregular form and 
the greater convexity of one of their sides. 

I have demonstrated experimentally that the encapsulated 
Megastomas are means of infection by taking four white mice 
(Mus Musculus) and mixing with the food of two of them human 
faeces containing encapsulated Lamblias, the two other mice being 
kept as controls. After seven or eight days the first two mice had 
already in their fseces a fairly large number of encysted Megastomas 
identical to those found in the human faeces. The two control mice, 
w^hich were kept under observation for a considerable time, remained 
free from these parasites. 

I have observed the transmission of the Lamblia intestinalis to 
the rabbit, and have frequently noticed among these animals cases 
of death for which no other cause could be found than the presence 
of this parasite. A rabbit that had died from this disease was sent 
lately to my laboratory; it came from a locality where other fatal 
cases had occurred. In this animal the lungs were in a state of 
diffuse emphysema, the stomach was distended with dry hard material 
consisting of bran and hay, the intestine, and specially the colon 
and rectum, were distended with gas. The droppings found in the 
rectum and colon were hard, dry, firmly adherent to the intestinal 
walls. The duodenum contained a large number of Megastomas 
similar to those found in man; some of these were attached to the 
intestinal epithelium by their "mouth." These parasites were found 
in large quantities along the whole length of the duodenum. In 
the large intestine the faecal matter had taken, owing to prolonged 
constipation, the character of coproliths, and there the parasites had 
undergone typical encystment. I have also had the opportunity of 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PARASITES 361 











^\ 






Q 



.oQ 



vw; 






o 




Fig. 2. 
Coccidiuni jalinuni. 



362 



PEERONCITO 



observing Megastomas in large numbers in the fluid contents of the 
stomach, and in the hsemorrhagic catarrhal exudations present in 
the intestines of a dog which had exhibited epileptic and paraplegic 
symptoms. 

Coccidium jalinum (n. Sp,) 

I have observed this parasite several times in individuals suffering 
from enteritis ; it has a peculiar translucent white or yellowish- white 
colour; it is sometimes reddish; its shape is spherical, measuring 
from 3 to 10 or 14 /z in diameter ; it is provided with a nucleus. 




Fig. 3. 
Sarcocystis Miesclieri. 



Fig. 4. 

Cysticercus cellulosae, observed on the warm 
stage, during life. 



This Coccidium is often surrounded by a granular barely visible halo, 
as shown in the jfigures illustrating my communication to the Societe 
de Biologic de Paris, in 1899, on the occasion of its 50th anniversary 
(see also the last edition of my book, / parassiti dell uovio e degli 
animali utili, Milano, 1902, p. 138). This parasite has been observed 
by Dr. Prospero Demateis and by Dr. Borini in persons affected with 
severe chronic enteritis, and reduced by chronic diarrhoea and 
dysentery to a cachectic state. 

It appeared to me that this parasite, which I have placed among 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PAEASITES 363 

the Coccidia, might be a stage in the development of Miescher's or 
liainey's tubes. (Sarcocystis Miescheri (Ray Lankester), Syiichy- 
triuvi Miescherianuni (Kuhn)), (Eig. 3.) 

I have found it in great number in the colon of pigs, the flesh 
of which was also infected with Miescher's corpuscles. This view is 
supported by the fact that the Sporozoites contained in the corpuscles 
of Miescher when made to develop outside the tissues assume a form 
resembling that of the Coccidium jalinum. Further study is needed 
in order to settle this question. 

CESTODA. 

Cysticercus cellulosae (Taenia Solium) (Linnaeus) 
Rudolphi). 

Owing to the application of hygienic measures, the two forms 
of this parasite have become less common than they were both in 
man and in animals. Almost everywhere meat is inspected and 
measly pork is destroyed or submitted to various processes such as 
cooking or salting. 

The mature deutoscolex (Cysticercus) is killed in five minutes by 
exposure to a temperature of 48° to 50°C. ; in less than 24 hours by 
the action of a weak solution of chloride of sodium. The parasite 
dies naturally in meat in from 30 to 40 days. The preservation of 
meat by refrigeration is therefore a source of security when suffi- 
ciently prolonged. The danger of infection through the eggs of 
the parasite is increased when, as sometimes occurs, there is more 
than one Taenia Solium in the intestines of one individual. 

Cysticercus bovis (Taenia Mediocaneiiata (Kiichen- 
meister) or Sag^inata (Goze). 

This tapeworm is becoming proportionally more frequent than the 
Taenia Solium on account of the difficulty of seeing its cysticercus in 
beef. The cysticercus bovis is smaller and more transparent than the 
cysticercus cellulosae, and is therefore more liable to escape notice. 
It is sometimes killed by a temperature of 44° to 45 °C., and always 
by a five minutes' exposure to 48° to 50°C. It does not resist 
freezing, salting, or pickling for a period of one month. 

I have been able to confirm the observations made by Dr. Oliver 
in India (1869), showing that after getting into the human intestine 
the cysticercus bovis developes into a mature Taenia Saginata in 
from 54 to 56 days. 

Echinococcus poiymorphus (Taenia Echinococcus) 

(v. Siebold). 

This parasite occurs in almost every country, as taenia in the dog 
and some other carnivora, as hydatid cyst in man and several animals. 
Very little has been added of late to our knowledge of Taenias, but 
several interesting facts have been observed in connection with the 
deutoscolici. 



364 PEREONCITO 

With regard to tlie Ace2)halo-cysts, contrary to the opinion held 
formerly, that they were capable of developing into tsenias in the 
dog, it is noAv recognised that they are incapable of perpetuating the 
species. In conjunction with Dr. Griglio, I have made a number of 
experiments showing that acephalo-cysts are incapable of producing 
tsenias. Deve, working in Blanchard's laboratory, and myself, in 
Turin, have simultaneously demonstrated that the deutoscolici or 
echinococcus heads are capable of producing cysts. This phenomenon 
is observed more specially when the Echinococcus madtilocularis is 
used. Echinococcus infection must eventually yield to the preven- 
tive measures indicated by the advances of comparative pathology. 




Fig. 5. 
Echinococcus cyst resulting from the development of a deutoscolex. 

Tasnia nana (von Siebold) Hymenolepis nana (Leuckart). 

This taenia was observed for the first time by Bilharz in Egypt, 
in 1851; seen afterwards by Spooner (1872) in the United States 
of America, by Blanchard (1885) in Belgrade, by Wernicke in the 
Argentine Republic; the same parasite has been observed in various 
parts of Italy, in Lombardy, by Grassi, Yisconti, and Segre, and also 
by Comini; in Catania and Sicily by Grassi and Calandruccio, in 
Piedmont by myself, by Dr. Airoldi (1888) and by Dr. Vaccino 
(1903). 

The presence of this Taenia is often associated with nervous 
symptoms which assume an eliptiform character. It is a small 
taenia which has many characters in common with the Tamia 
murina found in mice, of which it is probably only a variety as 
Grassi's experiments seem to show. 

Taenia cucumerina (Bloch) Dipylidium C. (Leuckart), Taenia 
canina (Linnseus), 

very common in the dog, is of great rarity in man. Krabbe has 
observed a few cases of this form of infection in Denmark. Blan- 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PARASITES 365 

cliard also refers to several human eases observed in Germany by 
Leuckart, Salzmann, Schmidt; In Switzerland by Schoch-Bolley ; 
in Scandinavia by Krabbe, and by Friis; Cobbold has observed one 
case in Scotland, and Martin one in France ; Neumann also mentions 
a few cases. 

Bothriocephalus latus (Bremser, 1817) Dibothrium latum 
(Rudolphi, 1810). 

During the last twenty years a number of scientific observers 
have made a special study of the development of this worm. Among 
their researches I may specially mention those of the late Dr. Ernesto 
Parona, who found fully-developed larvte of this cestode in the 
muscles of fish living in the lakes of Geneva, Lugano, Como, Yarese 
and others. I have observed the occurrence of the Bothriocephalus 
latus in men, dogs and cats that had never been out of Piedmont, 
and I have also found larvae of this worm in fish obtained from 
Piedmontese rivers. 

TREMATODA. 

I will only allude to a few of my observations relating to 
Trematoda. In 186T-8, in conjunction with my regretted " maitre " 
Professor Rivolta, I made observations on the erratic distomata 
occurring in the lungs of cattle. These observations have since been 
extended by Baeltz in Japan, who has observed the same kind of 
occurrence in man. 

I have also seen in the liver of a frog a cercaria without tail. 
The action of chloride of sodium upon free cercaria developed in 
Molluscs has been the subject of another investigation. I need only 
mention here my work regarding the treatment of distomatosis in 
sheep by the administration of the ethereal extract of male fern, 
and my study upon the development of the distoma hepaticum from 
the escape of the embryo from the eg^ to the penetration of the free 
larvae into the Limncca truncatula and L. peregrina. 

NEMATODA. 

Ascaris lumbricoides (Linnaeus). 

The Ascaris lumbricoides is generally found in the small intestine, 
from which it may wander upwards, through the stomach, into the 
oesophagus, and occasionally from there into the mouth and even 
the lachrymal duct. 

This worm may also penetrate into the common bile duct or 
the pancreatic duct or descend into the caecum and colon. 

Dr. Demateis, in 1900, found that the intestine of ascarides 
obtained from the human intestine contained pathogenic microbes, 
and that by means of its buccal apparatus the worm could inoculate 
the intestinal mucosa with these microbes. This view has also been 
supported by Guiart. 



366 PEERONCITO 

Metchnikoff has attracted attention to the important causal 
relation between round worms and appendicitis. In 1902 Triboulet 
published a case of appendicitis due to the Ascaris Lumbricoides. 
Guiart has recorded four cases of appendicitis, two of which were 
recurrent and associated with the presence of round worms; in one 
of these cases he found eggs of the Trichocephalus, in the other those 
of the Ascaris lumbricoides. One of these cases was treated by 
Santonin, and the other by Thymol, and they both recovered. The 
successful result of this mode of treatment supports the view that 
the disease was of parasitic nature. Cases of appendicitis attributable 
to the presence of the Trichocephalus or Ascaris have also been 
observed by Schiller. 

Weinberg has published a case of appendicitis occurring in a 
chimpanzee received at the Institut Pasteur from the French Congo : 
" The small intestine of this chimpanzee was actually stuffed with 
lumbrics; the caecum alone contained three of them." 

Beiguerel, Davaine, Natale observed the passage of a great 
number of Ascarides through a perforated appendix into the 
peritoneal cavity. 

Brun has found an ascaris in a retro-appendicular abscess follow- 
ing a perforating appendicitis. 

Cartaz published a case in which the appendix was completely 
obliterated by an ascaris, the cephalic end of which was free in the 
csecum. 

Toth was of opinion that these worms are capable of producing 
certain forms of anaemia and chlorosis, occuring more specially in 
girls, 

Ascaris meg^alocephala (Cloquet). 

In foals there are examples of perforation of the small intestine 
produced by Ascaris Tnegalocephala, the perforation being followed 
by fatal peritonitis. 

It is evident from what precedes that Ascarides are capable of 
producing more or less serious intestinal or even general disorders. 

Oxyuris vermicularis (Bremser, 1819), Ascaris vermicularis 
(Linnaeus, 1767). 

The resistance of the thread worm to the most rational forms of 
treatment is well known. In children affected with this worm one 
observes that from time to time there is a considerable increase in 
their number. Hundreds and even thousands of thread worms may 
at times be discharged from the bowel with a single evacuation. 
These worms, when not paralysed by cold or some other cause, 
are very active. 

They cause at times considerable malaise and pruritis of the 
anus, vulva, or vagina. 

Either as a result of appropriate treatment, or from no apparent 
cause, these worms seem to disappear entirely for variable lengths 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PARASITES 367 

of time, after which they reappear. IIow can these relapses 
following apparent cures be explained ? Some observations which I 
have recently made tend to show that the oxyuris larvae undergo 
development in the caecum, and more specially in the appendix 
vermiformis, where they are capable of producing a form of appen- 
dicitis. 

A well-nourished rabbit which I had under observation died of 
appendicitis, and I found mixed with the contents of the appendix 
a large number of oxyurides in various degrees of development. In 
the thickness of the wall of the appendix there were numerous small 
white patches situated between the serous and muscular coats, the 
muscularis was partly destroyed, the mucosa was covered with clear 
m.ucus containing a variable number of cells, in that mucus there 
was an extraordinay number of larvae of the Oxyuris amhigua in the 
first stage of development, and, in addition, there was a fully- 
developed male oxyuris. 

These motile larvae, by attacking the mucous membrane with 
their buccal papillae, had caused ecchymoses aaid desquamation of 
the epithelium — in fact, a state of inflammation which had caused 
the walls of the appendix to become at least four times thicker than 
normal. 

In the rest of the caecum (fixed portion) one noticed a large num- 
ber of male and female oxyurides in various stages of development, 
but already quite visible to the naked eye. 

This observation indicates, I think, that the early stages of de- 
velopment of the larvae occur in the tenninal portions of the appen- 
dix, the contents of which are comparatively still and composed of 
partly-digested vegetable matter mixed with leucocytes and mucus 
the secretion of which is considerably increased by the irritation 
caused by the larvae. 

These facts support the view which has been advanced by Metch- 
nikoff, Schiller, Still, Ramstedt, Oppe, Bruno Galli-valiero, and 
Martin regarding the share taken by the larvae of the Oxyuris 
vermicularis in the production of appendicitis in the human 
subject. 

It is true that Leuckart, Grassi, and Calandruccio have shown 
that the ingestion of adult oxyurides is followed in from 15 to 20 
days by infection, but this does not explain the occurrence of the 
very large number of thread worms found in the intestine of in- 
fected children and animals. In order to account for this 
number of worms it is necessary to admit that they are capable of 
multiplying without leaving the intestine. As the eggs of this worm 
are very seldom found in the faeces it is reasonable to suppose that 
the impregnated females migrate to the caecum from time to time 
to deposit there a variable number of ripe eggs, and that the em- 
bryos issuing from these eggs penetrate into the appendix to pass 
there the first part of their life. When capable of a more indepen- 



368 



PEREONCITO 



dent existence tlie young worms would then pass into the caecum 
and colon and mix with the intestinal contents; they would there 
become sexually mature and capable of perpetuating their kind. 






Fig 6. 
Uncinaria duodenalis. 



Fig. 7. 
Uncinaria Americana. 



The mature female worms which escape from the intestine with 
the faeces become the means of spreading the infection. Certain 
localities where external conditions are favourable to the preservation 
of eggs, embryos, or larvae, may thus become infected. 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PAHASITES 



369 



Ankylostoma duodenale (Dubini, 1838-43), Uncinaria 
duodenalis (Raillet, 1885). (Fig. 6.) 

This worm was formerly supposed to affect only peasants and 
brickmakers working in damp districts. In 1880 I found that it was 
the cause of the severe epidemic which affected miners engaged in 
the boring of the St. Gothard Tunnel, and also that it was the same 
worm that had caused the disease which for hundreds of years had 
produced great mortality among the miners working at Schemnitz, 
in Hungary, and in other places. Ankylostomiasis has been ob- 
served in Africa, where it is the cause of the Egyptian chlorosis, in 
Brazil, in France (St. Etienne and Valenciennes), in Russia, Ger- 
many, and Belgium. In England several centres of infection have 
recently been recognised (see papers and reports by A. E. Boycott 
and J. S. Haldane with regard to Cornish mines, and of Dr. Oliver, 
Newcastle-on-Tyne). In the United States of America Stiles and 
others have observed infection produced by the ordinary Uncinaria, 
and also by a variety called Americana, which is not provided with 
teeth. (Fig. 7.) 







Fig. 8. 
Eggs of Ankylostoma duodenale in various stages of development. 

In 1884 Dr. Liitz, of St. Paolo (Brazil), sent me a number of 
Ankylostomata of the same kind as those described later by Stiles 
under the name of Uncinaria Americana. 

The fecundated eggs are eliminated with the faeces, and when 
they find warm and damp surroundings they undergo segmentation 
and produce free embryos. The free embryo developes more or less 
rapidly in mud rich in organic detritus, and the larva reaches the 
stage of larval maturity, i.e., it becomes encysted or encapsulated 
During this period of their existence the larvae take up mineral 
salts, part of which are deposited in their capsule. When in that 
state the larvae, mixed with other dust, may be carried by the wind, 
or in some other way they find their way into water where thousands 



370 



PEERONCITO 



of them may at times accumulate causing tlie water to become 
highly infectious. 

If one introduces into some water a number of mature larvae, it 
is found that in a short time they run together, forming here and 
there small opalescent clumps more or less clearly visible to the naked 
eye. It is easy to understand how a miner becomes infected by 
drinking such water. This mode of infection has actually been 
observed at the St. Gothard. 

Up to the year 1880 clinicians were under the impression 
that the anaemia of miners was practically incurable, as no 
drug had been found that would invariably kill the worm in 
the human intestine. In that year, in conjunction with my 
assistant. Dr. Carita, I succeeded in breeding larvse of Ankylostomata 
and Anguillulse and obtaining millions of them, upon which it was 




Fig. 9. Larva of Ankylostoma duodenale, witli the capsule broken at both ends. 

possible to try the action of various chemical substances. I was thus 
able to show that the larvae were killed by the following substances : 

Carbolic acid 1 per cent, solution, in less than 5 minutes. 

Hydrochloric and Sulphuric acid 5 per cent, solution in 20 to 
30 minutes. 

Chloride of sodium, solutions of various strengths, in a time 
proportional to the strength of the solution. 

Thymol, saturated solution, in 5 to 10 minutes. 

Ethereal extract of male fern, in 5 to 10 minutes. 

These facts have been utilised in the treatment and prevention 
of Ankylostomiasis. Thus, under the care of Drs. Schillinger and 
Toth, miners' Anaemia has disappeared from Schemnitz. These 
discoveries have also made it possible for Dr. Volante Guiseppe to 
eliminate the danger connected with Ankylostomiasis during the 
boring of the Simplon Tunnel. 

Treatment by the ethereal extract of male fern and by thymol 
has been found efficacious in practice by many eminent clinicians, 
among whom I may mention Bozzolo, Parona, de Renzi and 
Maragliano. 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PARASITES 371 

Rhabdonema strongryloides (Leuckart), Strongyloides 
intestinalis (Bavay) (Grassi), Anguillula intestinalis and 
Stercoralis. 

This worm is frequently a commensal of the Ankylostoma, but it 
may be found alone, and occur in such large numbers as to produce 
a more or less severe anaemia. I had, in 1880, the opportunity to 
observe cases of this form of infection in anaemic miners employed 
at the St. Gothard Tunnel and in other places. 

This parasite lives usually in the duodenum and the jejunum, 
and less frequently in the ileum. The head and anterior parts of the 
worm penetrate through the epithelium, and after undermining it 
regain the surface by passing again through the epithelial layer. 
It thus produces lesions which may become serious by opening 
channels through which infection by virulent bacteria present in the 
intestine may take place. 

The Rhabdonevia strongyloi'des is dimorphobiotic (heterogenic). 
The Anguillula stercoralis of Normand and Bavay or PseudorJiahditis 
stercoralis (Perroncito), which was thought by Normand to be the 
cause of the dysentery observed in Cochin China, is the oviparous 
and viviparous offspring of the Rhabdonema strongyloides ; it under- 
goes development during its passage through the intestine, from 
which it escapes with the faeces and reaches larval sexual maturity 
while in a state of free existence. 

The larvae eliminated from the intestine either become encapsulated 
or reach a state of sexual maturity under favourable circumstances. 
The development of the sexual organs may take place either while the 
worm is still in the faeces or when it has passed into some other 
medium ; the new generation of larvae produced by these Anguillulae 
may reach maturation or become encysted. Water is easily infested 
by these larvae, and may be the means of infecting new human hosts. 
On reaching the intestine they give rise again to the typical Rhab- 
donema strongyloides. 

The relations of the Anguillula or Rhabdonemas to the intestinal 
mucous membrane account for the frequent failure of anthalminthic 
treatment. The worm being protected by the epithelium and a thick 
layer of mucus, is not easily reached by drugs which would otherwise 
readily kill it. 

Trichocephalus dispar (Rudolphi, iSoi ; T. Hominis, 
Schrank, 1788). 

The whip worm lives usually in the caecum, rarely in other parts 
of the intestine. Its cephalic extremity penetrates the epithelial 
layer, and after undermining it regains the surface by perforating 
the same layer in the opposite direction. 

Metchnikoff recognises a form of appendicitis attributable to this 
worm, and Girard has described, in 1901, two cases of this kind. 
In a case of appendicitis operated upon by himself Guinard has 
observed living Trichocephalus dispar. 



372 PERliONCITO 

Kermisson and Dilpritz have found this worm in 18 out of 22 cases, 
and subsequently Metchnikoff has found it in 12 out of 17 cases of 
appendicitis. I have already, when speaking of the Ascaris lumbri- 
coides, mentioned the four cases described by Guiart, in two of 
which eggs of the Ascaris and Trichocephalus respectively were 
found. The same author believes that the whip worm is a factor of 
some importance in the production of typhoid fever and other enteric 
diseases. Schiller gives a series of five cases of appendicitis in 
which the following worms were found : — 

Ascaris lumbricoides in 1 case. 

Trichocephalus dispar ,, 1 ,, 

Ascaris and Trichocephalus ,, 1 >» 

Oxyuris vermicularis ,,2 ,, 

It seems possible that the lesions produced by the Trichocephalus 
facilitates the penetration of microbes capable of producing septic 
and other forms of infection. 

Raillet holds this view, and supports it by some observations in 
the dog. 

Trichina spiralis (Richard Owen), 

The Trichina spiralis was seen for the first time by Peacock 
(1828) and by Hilton (1832) at Guy's Hospital, London. It was 
again observed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital by Wormald and by 
Sir James Paget in 1835, and it was from specimens collected by the 
last observer that the worm was first described and named by Owen. 

This worm has been admirably studied by Zenker, Leuckart, 
Virchow, Luschka, Cobbold, and other eminent observers, and it 
may be said that our knowledge concerning it is practically com- 
plete. The most recent work deals with the differential diagnosis 
of certain muscular lesions produced by Trichinae, Rainey's tubes, 
young cysticerci, and actinomycetes when these paiasites have died 
and undergone calcification. This differential diagnosis depends on 
careful micrscopical examination. Spencer Cobbold, as far back as 
1880, insisted upon the importance of microscopical inspection of 
meat, and this method has gained in importance yari passu with the 
improvements which have taken place in latter years in the sanitary 
supervision of abattoirs all through the world. 

During the years 1876-1877 I demonstrated that Trichinae, like 
other worms, died when exposed to a temperature of 48° to 60°C. 
In 1879 I showed that in trichinous meat imported from America 
the trichinae were usually dead at the time when the meat was placed 
on the market. It is well, however, to remember that since then 
the time of transit has been considerably reduced, and that it would 
not be wise to neglect the usual measures by which infected foods 
are excluded from our markets. 

Ordinary cooking is sufficient to kill cysticerci, trichinae and other 
worms liable to infect meat. 



HUMAN INTESTINAL PARASITES 



373 



As far back as 1876 I have published the results of experiments 
upon the effects of cooking on animal parasites present in meat. 
I have referred to these experiments and others in my book on 
parasites (loc. cit.). A few of them may be briefly mentioned here. 
Pieces of various kinds of meat were immersed in boiling water for 
various lengths of time, and the temperature reached by the central 
parts of these pieces of meat observed. The following table gives 
some of the results obtained : — 



Material tested. Size or weight. 

1 Piece of Veal 9|cm. x 7cni. 

2 Piece of Beef (leg)... 8cm. x 10cm. 

3 Ham 6 kilos. 

4 Ham 7 „ 

5 Ham 7 „ 

6 Ham 8 „ 

' of-iol^"'} Ordinary size 

„ Largest 

8 "Salame di testa".. diam. 9cm. 

weight 216 kilos., 

9 Sausage 3 x 10cm. 

weight 120 irrms... 



Duration of 


Temperatures observed. 


exposure.- 


centigrade scale. 


- 10' . 


.. 53° 


— 20' . 


.. 63°. 65", 67° 


— 20' . 


.. 47" 


— 35' . 


.. 66", 67° 


2 liours 


.. 46°, 55°, 58°, 62°, 64, 67' 


4 hours 


.. 51", 58"°, 59°, 61", 67° 


3 hours 25' . 


.. 67°, 73«, 74°, 75° 


3 hours 25' . 


.. 62°, 74°, 78°, 84° 


1 hour 20' . 


.. 58°, 63o 


1 hour 54' . 


.. 88° 


2 hours 30' . 


.. 90° 


2 hours 


.. 83° 


17' . 


.. 64°, 65°, 66° 



These experiments show that meat cooked in this way could not 
have transmitted the Trichina spiralis, the Taenia solium or the 
Taenia mediocanellata. 

Epidemics of Trichinosis, so frequent in Germany from 1860 
to 1870, have now become quite exceptional. Some isolated cases 
of trichinosis occur now and again, as if to remind us of the neces- 
sity of not neglecting the inspection of meat. 

Leuckart's experiments upon the influence of cold upon Trichinae 
should be repeated on a large scale in order to establish more fully 
the importance of refrigeration as a protective method. 

I am inclined, on the basis of my experiments upon the action 
of various drugs, to believe that it would be possible to treat satis- 
factorily patients in the early stages of trichiniasis, i.e., at the time 
when they show the first symptoms of intestinal infection. 

INSECTA. 

The presence in the human intestine of larvae of various kinds of 
insects is a question which has attracted attention of late. In the 
horse and other animals the larvae of the Gastrophilus equi, pecorum, 
nasalis, hoimorrhoidalis are frequently found. 

With the collaboration of my late assistant. Dr. Bosso, I found 
in 1895 that sulphide of carbon was a true specific against these 
parasites. 



APPENDIX. 



Report of the Advisory Committee 

on the Building and Opening of the 

New Laboratory at York Place 

and 

Directors' Report 

for the 

Session 1904-5 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



I'AGK. 

Report of the Advisory Committee 379 

Opening of Laboratory 384 

Building and Cost of Laboratory 394 

Director's Eeport, 1904-1905 398 

Investigations for Public Authorities 398 

Teaching Work 407 

Research Work 415 

Appendix I. — Authorities connected with Laboratory 417 

II. — Original Publications 420 

III.— Former Students: 1892—1905 426 



IDictoria lllnivereit^ of fIDancbester, 



PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY, 

YORK PLACE. 



abvi0or^ Commtttec, 

W. J. CROSSLEY, Esq., Chairman. 

S. DELEPINE, M.B., B.Sc, Professor of Comparative Pathology and 

Bacteriology, Director of the Laboratory. 
HAROLD B. DIXON, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry. 
EDWARD DONNER, B.A., Member of the Council. 
J. DRESCHFELD, M.D., F.R.C.P., Professor of Medicine. 
ALFRED HA WORTH, B.A., Member of the Council. 
D. B. HEWITT, M.D., Chairman of the Public Heahh Committee of 

the County of Cheshire. 
The Right Hon. Sir J. T. HIBBERT, K.C.B., LL.D., Chairman of the 

Lancashire County Council. 
ALFRED HOPKINSON, K.C., LL.D., Vice-Chancellor of the Victoria 

University of Manchester. 
W. H. JOHNSON, Esq. 
Alderman McDOUGALL, J. P., Vice-Chairman of the Sanitary 

Committee, Manchester. 
T. de COURCY MEADE, M.Inst.C.E., Manchester City Surveyor. 
J. DIXON MANN, M.D., F.R.C.P., Professor of Forensic Medicine. 
JAMES NIVEN, M.A., M.B., Medical Officer of Health for Manchester. 
ARTHUR RANSOME, M.D., F.R.S. 
Sir HENRY E. ROSCOE, LL.D., D.Sc, F.R.S. 
ARTHUR SCHUSTER, Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Physics. 
EDWARD SERGEANT, M.R.C.S., D.P.H., F.C.S., Medical Officer of 

Health for the County Palatine of Lancaster. 
Alderman WALTON SMITH, Chairman of the Manchester Health 

Committee and of the Port Sanitary Committee. 
C. H. TATTERSALLs M.R.C.S., D.P.H., Medical Officer of Health for 

Salford; and Lecturer on Public Health. 

Alderman JOSEPH THOMPSON, Treasurer of the University. 

FRANCIS VACHER, F.R.C.S., M.R.C.P., F.C.S., Medical Officer of 
Health for the County of Chester. 

F. E. WEISS, D.Sc, Professor of Botany. 



PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY. 
REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE. 

General Statement. 

In issuing for the first time a report upon the Public Health 
Laboratory, the Committee think it desirable to give a short account 
of the origin of this institution. 

Under the Public Health Act, 1875, the whole of England was 
divided into sanitary districts, which were further defined by the Local 
Government Act, 1894. Every District Council had to appoint from 
time to time a Medical OflScer of Health. After the 1st of January, 
1892, no such appointment could be made in any county, district, or 
combination of districts, with a population of 50,000 or upwards, 
unless the Officer, in addition to the usual registrable medical 
qualifications, was also registered as the holder of a diploma in 
Sanitary Science, Public Health or State Medicine, under Section 21 
of the Medical Act, 1886. 

Since the year 1889, the Victoria University had granted a 
Diploma to medical men who wished to devote themselves to the 
Public Health Service and had attended special laboratory courses 
in the Pathological and Chemical Departments ; but it was not till 
the 1892 regulations came into force that the teaching of Public 
Health was fully organised at the Owens College. At that time the 
examinations for the Diploma (then known as Diploma in Sanitary 
Science) became also more stringent, and more importance was 
attached to Pathology and Bacteriology than had been done before. 
Bacteriology had made rapid progress during the previous fourteen 
years; it had yielded results of the greatest importance in the field 
of preventive medicine, and it had become evident that bacteriological 
research was destined to be of great assistance in the work of sanitary 
authorities. These facts were brought before the Council of 
Owens College by the newly appointed Professor of Pathology; but 
the Pathological Laboratory was at that time very inadequate, 
consisting of three rooms only, two of which were daily occupie<l 
by students, and the third, which was also the Professor's room, was 
the only one available for delicate research work. The staff was also 
very small, consisting of the Professor and of only one Assistant who 
gave to the College half of his time. Notwithstanding those 
difficulties several important investigations bearing upon Disinfec- 
tion, Tuberculosis, Asiatic Cholera and Cancer were carried out in 
the Department during the years 1892, 1893 and 1894. 

In the year 1894 the Pathological Department was transferred to 



380 REPOET 

the new Medical School Buildings, where ample accommodation had 
been made for it. It then became possible to devote a well-fitted 
laboratory to the teaching of Bacteriology and Pathology in relation 
to Public Health, and, shortly after this, two small rooms were set 
apart for the conduct of bacteriological investigations for public 
authorities. 

The Council recognised that it was one of the duties of a 
University to take an active interest in scientific work which could 
be of benefit to the public, apart from teaching, more specially when 
such work was not already undertaken outside. Unfortunately the 
College had at its disposal no fund that could be devoted to the 
promotion of such work; it was therefore decided that Authorities 
requiring the assistance of the Pathological Department should pay 
fees towards the expenses of investigations carried out for them. 
Although for some years this source of income was inadequate, still 
as the benefits of the scheme have become more widely known, the 
income has steadily increased. Apart from finance, however, the 
arrangement has worked well from the beginning, for the Authorities 
were able to obtain from the University the assistance they required 
without incurring unnecessary expenditure, and the Bacteriological 
Laboratory was provided with a large supply of material and in- 
formation valuable to research workers and to students of public 
Health. 

The movement started in Manchester in 1892 was based upon 
a distinct want, as is shown by the subsequent adoption of a system 
similar to that established at Owens College by many Authorities 
in the kingdom. It is a matter of satisfaction to know that we have 
been able during the last ten years to assist by our advice many 
University and Municipal Authorities wishing to organise laboratories 
of the same kind as our own. 

Notwithstanding the fact that the course of study has greatly 
increased in length and cost, the changes previously described have 
led to an increase in the number of students coming to the College 
Laboratories to study Public Health and to undertake various 
researches. 

Removal of the Public Health Work from the College 
Buildings to Laboratories in Stanley Grove. 

In 1901, the growth of the Bacteriological Section of the Patho- 
logical Department necessitated the removal of the Bacteriological 
Laboratory from the Medical School, and the erection of new 
Laboratories in Stanley Grove. These new Laboratories included 
research rooms and class-rooms for the study of Pathology, Bacteriology 
and Chemistry in relation to Public Health, and also rooms suitable 
for the conduct of investigations for Public Authorities. The teaching 
of Sanitary Chemistry and of Bacteriology remained respectively 
under the direction of the Professor of Chemistry and of the Professor 
of Pathology, the latter acting as Director of the Laboratory. 



REPORT 381 

By the new arrangements it became possible for students to find 
under one roof the means of studying systematically and practically 
the branches of science bearing upon Public Health, and to have the 
opportunity of witnessing the application of various scientific methods 
to the solution of many problems bearing upon the prevention of 
disease. 

Advisory Committee. 

In 1902, the Council appointed an Advisory Committee, consisting 
of members of the Council, of the Senate and of the Public Authorities 
most interested in the work, the duties of this Committee being : — 

1. To consider and report from time to time as to any development 
of the work of the Department, and especially as regards further 
provision for research, and as regards the relations of Local Authorities 
to the Laboratory. 

2. To consult with the Director as to subjects relating to the 
Department which he may desire to bring forward. 

3. To make reports periodically as to the work of the Department 
with a view to publication if the Council thinks fit. 

Removal of the Public Health Laboeatory to York Place. 

The removal of the Manchester Royal Infirmary made it soon 
necessary to remove the Public Health Laboratories from Stanley 
Grove. This new displacement, though causing a considerable 
expenditure and interfering with the work of the staff for more than 
a year, had the advantage of providing the opportunity for the 
designing of laboratories better adapted to the study of the causes and 
prevention of disease and to the conduct of Pathological, Bacterio- 
logical and Chemical investigaltions bearing upon Public Health. 

The present site in York Place was selected on account of its 
close proximity to the new Infirmary, a proximity which should be 
of mutual advantage to both institutions. 

Division of the Chair of Pathology. 

The various changes which had taken place during the previous 
ten years had caused the Pathological Department to assume much 
larger proportions than had originally been anticipated ; and yet the 
Professor of Pathology felt that further developments were still 
needed, more especially in connection with the teaching of Morbid 
Anatomy in the Pathological Department of the Royal Infirmary. 
In 1902, he applied to the Council for the appointment of a Lecturer 
who would take charge of the teaching of Morbid Anatomy to students 
preparing for medical degrees, expressing, at the same time, the hope 
that, as soon as adequate endowments should make it possible, the 
Professorship of Pathology, as it existed then, should be divided, 



382 



REPORT 



one of the Professors being responsible for the teaching of Pathology 
and Morbid Anatomy to students preparing for medical and surgical 
degrees, the other taking charge of Pathology applied to Preventive 
Medicine and Public Health. 

On the advice of a Committee appointed to consider this matter 
the Council adopted the latter course in 1904. The then Professor of 
Pathology was appointed Procter Professor of Comparative Pathology 
and Bacteriology as well as Director of the new Public Health Labora- 
tory, and a new Professor of Pathology and Morbid Anatomy was 
placed in charge of the Pathological Department in the Medical School. 
These improvements have more than doubled the financial liabilities 
originally connected with the Pathological Department, but it is 
hoped that compensation will be found in the increased usefulness 
of the University, and that Public Authorities, and all those 
interested in the prevention of disease, will speedily relieve the 
University from this additional financial burden. Substantial help 
has already been given in this direction by the city of Manchester 
and by the Chairman of the Committee, who has presented a sum of 
£2,000 towards the erection of the new Laboratory. 



The progress which has taken place during the last fourteen years 
is indicated in the following summary : — 

Summary Showing the Number of Reports Issued and the Total 
Amount of Fees Received, 1895 — 1905. 







Average Number 


Year. 


No. of Reports. 


Total Receipts. 


of Reports 






£ s. d. 


per Week. 


1895-6 ... 


300 


74 5 8 


3 


1897 


1,504 


446 8 1 


28 


1898 


2,402 


786 1 7 


46 


1899 


3,003 


874 4 2 


57 


1900 


4,652 


1,682 15 3 


89 


1901 


5,220 


1,887 8 


100 


1902 


5,165 


2,064 5 5 


99 


1903 


5,773 


2,051 11 


111 


1904 


5,777 


2,108 1 10 


111 


1905 (i year) 


3,790 


1,278 2 


145 



The monthly records for the last three years show that the work 
is still progressing: — 



REPOET 



383 



Average Number of Specimens Deceived Daily during the 
Years 1903, 1904, and 1905. 





1903. 


1904 


January .... 
February . . . 


14-8 
15-8 


.. 150 
.. 17-3 


March 


15-3 


.. 200 


April 

May 

June 


13-5 
14-3 
120 


.. 150 
.. 11-4 
.. 120 


July 

August 

September .. 


15-2 
11-6 
21-4 


.. 12-7 
.. 11-3 
.. 15-9 


October 


19-5 


.. 191 


November ... 


18-5 


.. 18-7 


December . . . 


17-6 


.. 20-5 





Average for 




tliree years. 


1905. 


1903-4-5. 


18-3 


. . 160 


22-8 


.. 18-8 


24-7 


.. 2()-0 


21-6 


.. 16-7 


220 


.. 15-9 


160 


lS-3 


170 


.. 15-0 


18-0 


.. 13-6 


20-9 


.. 19-4 


241 


.. 20-9 


25-8 


.. 21-0 


19-6 


.. 19-2 



Since 1892 the following gentlemen have acted as Scientific 
Assistants in the Laboratory : — 



1894-1895. 

1895-1905. 

1897-1898 

1898-1905.- 

1899-1901.- 

1899.- 

1900-1905.- 

1904-1905.- 

1904-1905.- 



J. 



— E. 



—A 



Richmond (M.A., M.B. Oxon., D.P.H. Cantab.), now 

Medical Officer of Health for Handsworth and Perry 

Bar, near Birmingham (occasional assistant). 
J. Sidebotham (M.A., M.B. Cantab.), now Senior 

Assistant and Lecturer on Practical Bacteriology in 

the Public Health Laboratory. 

E. Brindley (B.Sc. Vict., M.D. London, D.P.H. Vict.), 

now Medical Officer of Health for the County Borough 

of Bury. 
J. R. Carver (M.D., D.P.H. Cantab.), now Senior 

Assistant in the Public Health Laboratory. 
F. J. H. Coutts (M.D., D.P.H. Vict.), now Medical Officer 

of Health for the County Borough of Blackpool. 
A. Greenwood (M.D. Vict., D.S.M.), now Medical Officer 

of Health for the County Borough of Blackburn. 
A Sellers (M.D. Edin., D.P.H. A'ict.), now vSenior Assist- 
ant in the Public Health Laboratory and Assistant 

Lecturer in Comparative Pathology 
Gilbert Fowler (D.Sc, Vict.), Senior Chemical Assistant 

in the Public Health Laboratory and Lecturer in 

Bacteriological Chemistry. 
W. B. Ramsden (B.Sc, M.B., Ch.B. Vict.), Chemical 

Assistant in the Public Health Laboratory, and 

Lecturer in Sanitary Chemistry. 



384 REPORT 

The following gentlemen should also be mentioned amongst those 
who gave temporary assistance in periods of stress : — 

1895-1900.— F. C. Moore, (M.D., M.Sc. Yict.), Lecturer in Hygiene, 

Municipal Technical School. 
1896-1897.— Francis Villy (B.A., M.D. Cantab.). 
1897-1898.— J. H. Eay (M.B., M.Ch. Vict.). 

1902.— W. J. S. Bythell (B.A., Cantab., M.D. Vict.). 

1902.— R. W. Marsden (M.D., D.P.H. Vict.), late Superintendent, 

Monsall Fever Hospital. 
1902.— T. A. Rothwell (M.D., D.P.H. Vict.), Medical Officer of 
Health for Hale. 
1902-1903.— I. Walker Hall (M.D. Vict.), late Assistant Lecturer in 
Pathology; Professor of Pathology, University 
College, Bristol. 

It is a matter of satisfaction to know that all these gentlemen 
have received the whole of their bacteriological training in our 
laboratory. They have fully justified the high opinion which we had 
formed of them by their subsequent work, and, in several cases, by 
the important appointments which they have obtained. 

A list of over 370 students who have studied Bacteriology in this 
Department since 1892 is given in Appendix III. Among them will 
be found many Medical Officers of Health who hold important 
appointments. 

OPENING OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY. 

The new Laboratory was opened on January 27th of this year by 
Mr. W. J. Crossley. Earl Spencer, the Chancellor of the University, 
presided over the ceremony, and was supported by the Vice-Chancellor 
and the Lord Mayor of Manchester. Among those present were 
Lord Stanley of Alderley, the Right Hon. Sir James Fergusson, Bart., 
Sir W. Mather, Sir Bosdin T. Leech, Mr. Edward Donner, Alderman 
Stephens, Mayor of Salford, Alderman Joseph Thompson, Alderman 
McDougall, the Dean of Manchester, Mr. Cosmo Melvill, Mr. 
Neville Clegg, Dr. Arthur Ransome, Councillor Fildes, and 
a large number of representatives of Local Authorities. Many 
English and foreign men of science were also present : The Vice- 
Chancellor of the University of Liverpool ; Sir Wm. S. Church, Bart., 
President of the College of Physicians; Professor Woodhead, of 
Cambridge; Professor R. Ross and Professor Hope, of Liverpool; 
Professor Trevelyan, Professor Hartley and Professor Grtinbaum, 
of Leeds ; Sir James Russell and Dr. D. Noel Paton, of Edinburgh ; 
Colonel J. Lane Notter, Dr. Charles J. Martin and Dr. Charles 
Slater, of London; Professor Calmette, representing the 
Pasteur Institutes of Paris and Lille; Professor Salomonsen, of 
Copenhagen; Professor Perroncito, representing the Minister of 
Public Instruction, Italy, and the University of Turin ; and many 
other representatives of Manchester and other Universities. Lord 
Lister, the late Sir John Burdon Sanderson, Sir James Crichton 



REPORT 385 

Browne and other scientific men who were unable to be present, 
expressed by letter their warm approval of this extension of the 
University work. 

After the ceremony of opening, Honorary Degrees were conferred 
by the Chancellor upon Professor Calmette, Professor Perroncito 
and Professor Salomonsen in the Whit worth Hall. 

The following speeches were delivered : — 

Opening Ceremony at the New Laboratory. 

In presenting the keys to Mr. W. J. Crossley, the Director said : 
My Lord and Chancellor, My Lord Mayor, Ladies and Gentlemen, 

There is a special fitness in our asking Mr. Crossley to open a 
Laboratory devoted to the study of the causes and prevention of 
Disease. Everyone knows how for years he has striven to supply the 
best possible means for the treatment and prevention of consumption, 
and how much this district is indebted to him for his princely gift 
of a sanatorium second to none in the country. When we asked him 
several years ago to become the Chairman of our Advisory Committee 
we knew of his sympathy for our work, and of the benefits which we 
would derive from his experience and advice. Quite recently he gave 
us further proof of his good-will by assisting us materially when we 
were confronted by financial difficulties due to the displacement of 
the laboratory. It is therefore with special pleasure that we see him 
come here to-day to open the new Public Health Laboratory of the 
University. 

The building which he is to open is not fully equipped yet; 
9 months ago the site upon which it now stands was occupied by four 
houses, and the old laboratory was still standing in Stanley Grove. 
Since last April we have had to pull down the old laboratory, replace 
the old material in the new building, and we have done our best 
*' to carry on our work as usual during the alterations." Before this 
year is over we hope our laboratory will be properly furnished and 
equipped. 

It may be interesting to recall that up to 1902 Public Health had 
no special abode in Owens College. The teaching of medical men 
wishing to enter the Public Health service was conducted in the 
Pathological and Chemical Laboratories. About 1895 two small 
rooms were set aside in the Pathological Laboratory for investigations 
carried out for Public Health Authorities. In 1901 this work had 
grown to such an extent that it was necessary to find new accommoda- 
tion for Public Health Work outside the Medical School, and a house 
situated in Stanley Grove was adapted for the purpose. At the same 
time the College created a separate Department for the study of 
Pathology, Bacteriology, and Chemistry as applied to Public Health 
and for the conduct of investigations for Public Authorities. Finally 
the removal of the Royal Infirmary to Stanley Grove made it neces- 



386 REPOllT 

sary to rebuild the Laboratory on the present site. The development 
of this department was slow at first, from 1891 to 1893 we were doing 
pioneer work, there was no other laboratory in the kingdom in close 
connection with local sanitary authorities, and few people realised the 
use which bacteriology could be to the public. But from 1895 to 
the present day the progress has been rapid. 

It was greatly due to the interest which Dr. Ward, the late 
Professer Leech, Professor Dixon, Mr. Donner, and Alderman 
Joseph Thompson took in the matter, that any progress was 
made at first. The voluntary assistance given in the early 
stages by Dr. E. J. Sidebotham was also of great value as 
well as that of the successive members of the staff who 
willingly undertook onerous duties without regard to adequate re- 
muneration. Outside the College, we also received encouragement, 
support and advice, in succession from Dr. C. Porter, Dr. Niven, 
Dr. Vacher, Dr. Tattersall, Dr. Sergeant and several others, among 
whom I may specially mention Dr. A. Pansome. I wish also to add a 
word to express my personal sense of the obligation we are under to 
the yice-Chancellor for his continued efforts to promote the scheme. 
The great services rendered by you, sir, have already been mentioned. 

It is only natural that we should remember at the present time 
the share taken by all these gentlemen in the development of an 
institution which it is earnestly hoped will prove of still greater use 
in the future than it has been in the past. 

Mr. Crossley, in asking you to declare the Laboratory open we beg 
you to accept in remembrance of this day a key of the Laboratory. 

We feel confident that whenever you visit us you will find this 
Laboratory full of earnest workers engaged in studies worthy of the 
University, and having for object the prevention and relief of 
suffering. 

Our work has already received encouragement from the interest 
taken in it by the distinguished men of science who have done us the 
honour of coming from various parts of Great Britain and of the 
Continent to take part in this ceremony. 

Mr. W. J. Ceossley, in declaring the laboratory open, said that if 
he needed a text for his address he would choose the time-honoured 
saying : " Prevention is better than cure," not that the investigations 
conducted at the laboratory were not largely for the purpose of 
curing, but that the great aim of public health work was to bring 
about such sanitary conditions as might prevent what Prof. Delepine 
called the " accident of disease." We were invited to look upon it as 
a bad accident, worse perhaps than the breaking of a limb, if we 
should encounter such an army of hostile bacilli as might suffice to 
overcome the opposition of our health conditions, and carrying the 
citadel by assault, produce in us the disease for which they were the 
duly accredited agents. This, too, before we were conscious that we 
had been in battle at all. This was an accident, but under proper 



REPORT 387 

conditions it should be an avoidable accident. It was the duty of our 
officers of public health to keep these foes in check, to watch and 
record their movements, temper or doings; to issue warnings and 
instructions how such foes were to be met. Surely it was a tragic 
thing that we, "the lords of creation," should be unable to see our 
most dangerous enemies who struck before we knew of their presence. 
To look for these enemies and to find them was no easy task, and in- 
volved much study. Our protectors, our scouts, must be taught, and 
in the Public Health Laboratory they were offered every facility for 
learning the methods of warfare. Without such institutions and 
such equipment they could do no more than a workman without 
tools. Hence the duty of making ample provision both for teaching 
and for research in the New Laboratory. It was a strange thing that 
in this country, in which we spent so vast sums on armaments against 
visible foes who might never attack us, our Exchequer could spare so 
little to assist the work of institutions such as that. On the 
Continent Governments liberally supported work done in this field, 
but in this country nearly everything had to be done by voluntary 
effort, even our County Councils were unable to contribute towards 
building funds, being restricted to payments for investigations 
ordered. He thought it would be agreed that the director of such 
an institution as the Public Health Laboratory should not be 
weighted down with financial troubles, but should be able without 
considering every shilling, to keep abreast of the times with the best 
apparatus and the best professional assistance. 

The Vice-Chancellor, speaking on behalf of the University, com- 
plimented Professor Delepine, to whose devoted labour, he said, the 
existence of the Laboratory was due. Professor Delepine had been 
able to excite warm interest in his work amongst those who were 
engaged in the work of local administration. The work of combating 
disease, of preventing disease, and of advancing all kinds of know- 
ledge which would aid in the cure as well as in the prevention of 
disease, and in teaching a band of men who would be the Public 
Health Officers of the future, if it was to be done efficiently in a great 
community, must be on the lines of the Laboratory, and must have 
the co-operation not only of the University and its teachers, but also 
of the local authorities around them. 

The Lord Mayor of Manchester, in moving a vote of thanks to 
Mr. Crossley, said that the Public Health Laboratory had done a very 
large amount of work for the Manchester Corporation, more par- 
ticularly in connection with fevers and consumption and the control 
of the milk supply. As a matter of fact nearly half of the total 
public health work done by the Laboratory had been done for the 
Manchester Corporation. As a result of the work it had been 
possible to take preventive action with much greater precision, and so 
save both suffering and expense. Important work had also been done 
for the City in connection with the public water supply, and with the 



388 BEPORT 

air of sewers. One great advantage whicL. Manchester possessed in 
the Public Health Laboratory was the security that should cholera or 
plague assail this country, they could rely upon Professor Delepine 
to give exact and timely information as to the character of the 
disease. It would be an advantage in practical prevention of infec- 
tion if Professor Delepine were free to devote more time and money 
to research both personally and by the direction of others. 

Dr. A. Ransome, F.R.S., said : 

I will not detain you long, though there is much that might be 
said on the value of Preventive Medicine. " The Health of the 
People is the Supreme law," not only for Statesmen and Lawgivers, 
but for the whole community. The Common Health comes even 
before the Common Wealth, which indeed would be impossible of 
attainment without it — "Sanitas sanitatum, ovinia sanitas." 

There is no Department of Medical Science more worthy of study 
and support than that of Public Health. 

High praise and many honours have been showered upon the 
Department of Surgery for its recent magnificent successes, and it 
has well deserved them. I would not say one word in disparagement 
of the great skill and courage of its professors; but it should be 
remembered that its greatest triumphs have been rendered possible 
only by means of the knowledge that has been given them by 
bacteriologists. Moreover, when we come to the subject of life-saving, 
we may say, in paraphrase, that " if Surgery has saved its thousands, 
Preventive Medicine has saved its tens of thousands." In proof of 
this statement you have only to look at the enormous diminution that 
has taken place of late in all kinds of preventable disease, especially 
in the mortality from such microbic diseases as Consumption and all 
belonging to the Zymotic class. Many millions have thus been saved. 

You have to-day provided the University and, through it, the 
whole of this great community, with the means of adequately teach- 
ing the Principles of Public Health and, under the guidance of 
Professor Delepine, one of the first Pathologists of the day, you have 
furnished the weapons for meeting and staving off many diseases. 
You may be sure that they will be valiantly wielded, and that, under 
his drilling, there will soon be trained a small army of men devoted 
to the work of saving, not destroying, human lives. 

I earnestly pray for God's blessing upon their noble work. 

Dr. A. Calmette, Directeurdel'Institut Pasteur de Lille, delivered 
the following speech : — 

Je suis doublement heureux de m'associer a cette fete de la science 
que vous celebrez aujourd'hui : d'abord parce que je puis exprimer 
a votre glorieuse Universite toute ma reconnaissance pour le degre 
honorifique de docteur es-sciences qu'elle veut bien me conferer en 
meme temps qu' a d'autres savants illustres. Ensuite et surtout parce 
que j'ai regu de I'lnstitut Pasteur de Paris et de I'lnstitut Pasteur 



REPORT 389 

de Lille I'agreable mission d'apporter aii Professor Delepine 
et au Comite d'organisation de ce nouveaii laboratoire d'hygiene 
publique, I'expression sincere de notre estime, avec nos meilleurs 
voeux de prosperite. 

Vous etes tons deja bien convaincus par experience de la grande 
utilite de cette ceuvre. Vous avez pii vous rendre compte des immenses 
services qu'elle vous rend pour la lutte sociale centre les maladies 
infecteuses les plus meurtrieres telles que la tuberculose, la diphterie, 
la fievre typlioide. 

II est evident que vous pouvez en attendre des services beaucoup 
plus importants encore dans I'avenir, a la seule condition que vous 
assuriez son existence. Or, a ce sujet, jeprouve le besoin de vous 
faire part d'une reflexion qui m'est venue a I'esprit lorsque j'appris 
que le laboratoire n'avait aucune ressource fixe, aucune subvention 
annuelle, et qu'il etait exclusivement, pour employer vos propres 
expressions, self-supporting. 

Permettez-moi de vous dire que je vois la un tres grand in- 
convenient : plus ce laboratoire vous rendra de services, plus il con- 
tribuera au developpement de I'liygiene, plus ses ressources diminue- 
ront, et le jour ou il aura it presque entierement fait disparaitre de 
Manchester les maladies contagieuses, c'est lui qui devrait mourir si 
vous ne lui apportez pas de larges souscriptions comme tribut de votre 



reconnaissance 



Yous avez tout interet, certes, a lui apporter ces souscriptions et 
a les faire tres genereuses, parce qu'elles permettront au Professeur 
Delepine d'entreprendre des recherches nouvelles en vue de contribuer 
aux progres de la science de I'hygiene. Le Professeur Delepine a 
toutes les qualites necessaires pour donner un eclat particulier a ces 
rechercbes et pour illustrer ces nouveaux laboratoires. Son passe 
scientifique est la pour vous I'attester. Son nom, connu et estime de 
tout le monde savant, est desormais inseparable de cet Institut : il 
serait aussi difficile de les separer qu'il est difficile de separer la 
cbaleur de la lumiere. Aussi est-ce de tout coeur que je lui apporte 
mes felicitations les plus cordiales et que, tant au nom de I'lnstitut 
Pasteur de Paris qu'en celui de Lille, je souliaite a ses travaux tout le 
succes dont il est diffne ! 



The Degree Ceremony at the Whitworth Hall. 

Before conferring Honorary Degrees the Chancellor, Earl 
Spencer, expressed the pleasure it gave him to be present. For the 
last two years he had been prevented from taking part in the proceed- 
ings of the University of which he had the honour to be Chancellor. 
He then referred to the events which had led recently to the establish- 
ment of three Universities in place of the old federal Victoria 
University. For the first time he stood among them as Chancellor 
of the University of Manchester. He had the honour to be Chancellor 



390 REPORT 

of <he Victoria University before the reconstruction took place, and 
lie had thought it his duty then to place his resignation in the hands 
of the Yice-Chancellor and his colleagues. And, he said, he regarded 
it as a mark of high distinction and a great honour that he should 
have been asked to retain the ofl&ce of Chancellor in the Victoria 
University of Manchester. He felt this all the more because when 
the discussions about the change took place he differed from many of 
those who were acting with him. He wished now to say most 
earnestly and distinctly that he would always do his utmost to up- 
hold and support the University with all the influence which he 
might possess. He was convinced that the University would fulfil 
its lofty aims and duties, and that it would be a centre of light and 
learning to the nation, and especially to those round it, that it would 
foster civilisation, improve commerce, and give to all who came 
within its influence the best equipment — a high and intelligent 
education. He believed that in Manchester those who were at the 
head of society and commerce, proud of their University, would come 
forward with the enthusiasm and with the liberality which had been 
so remarkable among them, to cherish and foster the noble institution 
which the wisdom and generosity of their ancestors had set up 
amongst them. 

The Chancellor then referred to the splendid work of Professor 
Delepine and his co-ad jutors, who had been pioneers in public health 
work not only in Lancashire but in the nation at large. Fifteen 
years ago little or nothing was done by public authorities with regard 
to bacteriological research, but thanks to the University and to 
Professor Delepine, a great advance had been made in this respect. 
He was glad to know that other municipalities besides Manchester 
were now awakening to the importance of this means of prevention of 
disease, and that another weapon would be put in the hands of local 
authorities in combating the attacks of disease. He spoke of the 
wide field covered by the study of public health, overcrowding, in- 
sanitary buildings, water supply, drainage, temperance, and many 
other subjects where a great deal yet remained to be done by Parlia- 
ment and by public bodies. But they could not overlook the great 
progress that had recently been made, and which had placed at the 
services of the poor, facilities which could before only have been 
commanded by the rich. He knew what enormous benefit the 
Laboratories which they had opened would confer on local authorities, 
and how much illness would be prevented as a result of the researches 
there. 

Dr. C. J. Salomoxsen, Professor of Pathology and Director of the 
State Serum Institute, Copenhagen, delivered the following address 
after the Chancellor had conferred the Degrees : — 

In the name of Professor Perroncito and Dr. Calmette, my two 
renowned colleagues, and in my own I most respectfully thank the 
Victoria University, who has to-day conferred on us the Degree of 



REPORT 391 

Doctor of Science. We highly appreciate the great honour shown us 
by this famous University — famous not only for its having so largely 
contributed to the advancement of science and to the raising of the 
intellectvial standard of English youth, but famous also for its special 
stamp as to origin, programme and growth. 

It was perhaps fortunate for this town that the Parliament 
assembled in the year of 1640 did not pay attention to the claims of 
the northern parts of England, and shut their ears to these often 
quoted words about " the many ripe and hopeful wits who were utterly 
lost for want of education." For the failure of this first attempt to 
erect a University in Manchester made it possible a long time after- 
wards to start the movement, which, 120 years ago, was inaugurated 
by the paper of Thomas Barnes "A plan for Improvement and 
Extension of liberal education in Manchester." It is true that his 
new and original programme, " connection between liberal science 
and commercial industry," has never and nowhere been accomplished, 
but it certainly has influenced the men, who during the past century 
fought for promoting liberal education in Manchester, tried to suit 
the Owens College to the peculiarities of this town and this district, 
and thus contributed to give the Victoria University its individual 
feature. 

Between the two Right Reverend old and classical sisters in 
Oxford and Cambridge, who in a happy manner, unite the splendour 
of former days with the glories of present time, the Victoria 
University is emerging as a modern, unsectarian, young, and charm- 
ing English woman, fostered and cherished by the industrious, the 
rich, the freeborn citizens of Manchester, eager to break down deep- 
rooted prejudice, zealous to open new strata of the population to the 
influence of University life ; ardent and youthful ! 

Rapid growth is a prerogative of youth, and the Highest School 
of Manchester has grown rapidly from the year when the Owens 
College — the real nucleus of this University — was founded. The 
short history of the Institute whose new building we opened to-day, 
symbolises this rapid growth. We congratulate the University of 
Manchester on the consummation of this splendid Public Health 
Laboratory, and especially we congratulate you. Professor Delepine, 
on this result of your earnest work during fourteen years. We are 
convinced that the remembrance of your admirable perseverance and 
your scientific enthusiasm will always live, in this Laboratory, as a 
latent source of energy for further progress, and we cannot express 
our hearty thanks for the great honour shown us to-day in a better 
way than by these words. 

May the new Public Health Laboratory gloriously inscribe its 
name in the annals of English science, and may it support the 
Victoria University in its noble task of always adding fresh lustre 
to Manchester, to Lancashire, to England ! 

Sir William Church commented upon the rapid rise and progress 



392 REPORT 

of State medicine, and the increased knowledge which has recently 
been acquired as to the true causes of such diseases as anthrax, 
cholera, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, and malaria. Increased atten- 
tion has also been paid of late years, he said, to the circumstances 
under which our trades and manufactures — more especially those 
which are prejudicial to the health of the workers — are conducted, as 
well as to the conditions under which the masses of the people live. 
Numerous problems were therefore involved in the question of public 
health, or State medicine, and for the right investigation of these 
problems special laboratories were required, in order that there might 
be proper scientific means of investigation, and that in connection 
with them accurate and true results might be obtained. " State 
medicine," he added, "is, in my opinion, the highest branch of our 
art, and it is with very great satisfaction that everyone has seen that 
the newer universities have accorded to it in their curricula a most 
honoured position." 

Professor Woodhead, of Cambridge, delivered an interesting 
address on the aims and recent developments of Bacteriology, and 
wished success to the new Laboratory, of which he spoke as being an 
important addition to the resources of the Manchester University. 



The following letter was then presented to the Chancellor by 
Professor Perroncito : — 

Royal University of Turin. 

Letter from His Excellency, the Minister of Public Instruction, 

Italy. 

Torino, 

27 gennais, 1905. 

Ricevo in questo momento da S. E. il Ministro della P. I, la lettera 
che integralmente qui Le trascrivo. 

" Prego la S.Y. di voler invitare il Chiar. Prof. Edoardo Perroncito 
di codesta Universita a rappresentami alia solennita della inaugura- 
zione del laboratorio della publica igiene, solennita che avra lusgo 
nella 'Victoria University' a Manchester. 

" E avro caro se Egli al fiorente liteneo inglese e agl' insegnanti 
e agli studenti di esso, porgera, in mio nome, un affettuoso saluto di 
simpatia e di ammerazione. 
II Ministro fir. Orlando. 

Colgo quest' occasione per porgere alia S.V. Chiar. gli atti della 
mia distinta ed affettuosa osservanza. 

II Rettore, 

G. Chironi. 
Al Chiar. Sig. Prof. Dott. Comm. Edoardo Perroncito 
presso rUniversita di Manchester. 



REPORT 393 

EoYAL University of Turin. 
Letter from His Excellency, the Minister of Public Instruction. 

27 January, 1905. 

I have just received from His Excellency the Minister of Public 
Instruction the letter of which I send you a literal transcript. 

" Pray be good enough to invite Prof. Edoardo Perroncito of your 
University to represent me at the ceremony of the opening of the 
Public Health Laboratory, which ceremony will take place at the 
Victoria University of Manchester. 

" I should wish him to present in my name an affectionate greeting 
of sympathy and admiration to that flourishing English Institu- 
tion to its Professor and students. 

"(Signed by the minister) Orlando. 

I take this opportunity of expressing my own personal esteem and 
regard for you. 

G. Chironi, 

Rector. 
To Professor E. Perroncito. 



Letter from Lord Lister, F.R.S., D.C.L., LL.D. 

12, Park Crescent, 

Portland Place, 

January 25th, 1905. 

My dear Professor Delepine, 

Had the state of my health permitted, I should have had peculiar 
pleasure in attending the opening of your Public Health Laboratory. 
For I need hardly say that I feel deep interest in this enterprise, 
calculated as it is to do immense service to Manchester and its 
neighbourhood, and also to bring additional renown to the Victoria 
University. 

Let me congratulate you to whom it is largely due on your great 
achievement. 

I cordially hope that generous benefactors will be forthcoming to 
provide the funds still required for the complete development of the 
Institution. 

Believe me. 

Very sincerely yours, 

Lister. 



394 REPORT 

Letter from Adolphus William Ward, Esq., Litt.D., LL.D., 

Master of Peterhouse College, Cambridge, late Principal of Owens 

College and Vice-Chancellor of the Victoria University. 

Falmouth, 
January 7th, 1905. 

I am obliged to deny myself the pleasure of attending the 
opening of the Public Health Laboratories on the 27th, but I should 
like to send you a word of congratulation on the achievement which 
this ceremony seems to signify, as well as on the prospect of still 
greater and more beneficient usefulness which it opens. I 
always thought the College could not do better than connect its 
research directly with a purpose of such public utility, and now 
that it has become the University of Manchester this responsibility 
seems to come to it more directly than ever. May your work con- 
tinue to prosper. ^ -^ Ward. 

After the ceremony Professor Perroncito delivered a lecture on 
"Intestinal Parasites," at the Public Health Laboratory. This 
lecture is published in the 1st Volume of the Archives of the 
Laboratory. 



BUILDING OF THE NEW UNIVERSITY LABORATORY 

(YORK PLACE). 

The last report presented by the Director to the Advisory Com- 
mittee referred to the year 1903. The report for the year 1904 should 
have been submitted as usual in the early part of this year, but it was 
found desirable to make the Laboratory's financial year correspond 
with the academic year, and to make it extend from June to June, in- 
stead of from December to December as heretofore. In future there- 
fore the report of the Director will be presented to the Committee either 
at the end of the Summer Session or at the beginning of the Winter 
Session as may be found most convenient. To prevent any confusion 
in the accounts, the statement prepared at the beginning of this year 
and relating to the year 1904 has been kept separate from that for 
the first half of this year. 

Since the last report was presented the Public Health Laboratory 
has been transferred from Stanley Grove to the present site. An 
account of the steps taken up to the month of February, 1904, will 
be found in the report for the year 1903, pp. 24 to 30. 

On March 8th, 1904, the Advisory Committee approved of 
the plans designed by the Director and which were subsequently 
carried out, and recommended the Council to accept Messrs. 
William Southern and Sons' tender, the estimate of the cost 
of the building, without fittings, amounting to £6,124. On 
March 16th, 1904, the contractors began to clear the site, and on 
April 14th the laying of the foundations commenced. The building 



REPORT 395 

operations proceeded rapidly under the immediate supervision of tlie 
Director, who has drawn the attention of the Committee to the 
energy, care and rapidity with which Mr. Wm. Southern carried 
out his contract. On October 14th, 1904, i.e., exactly six months 
after the beginning of the building operations, Public Health classes 
were held in the new Laboratories, and on October 31st, 1904, 
municipal research work was entirely transferred to the new buildings. 

During the preceding six months the work of the Laboratory 
had been conducted under extraordinary difficulties. Part of the 
Laboratory at Stanley Grove had to be pulled down to provide 
building material for the new Laboratories, and the members of the 
staff were obliged to conduct their investigations in small outbuildings 
or sheds, until even these were pulled down, and it became necessary 
for them to transfer their work to the Pathological Department 
during the summer recess. It was also necessary to take for six 
months a small house in York Place to store up books, apparatus 
and furniture. Notwithstanding all these disturbances bacteriological 
investigations went on without interruption, but it was found advisa- 
ble to discontinue some important work which could be deferred with- 
out serious inconvenience to Authorities. The members of the 
staff submitted cheerfully to all this trouble, and deserve much 
credit for the admirable way in which they discharged their re- 
spective duties under these trying conditions. 

The capital account balance-sheet shows that the debt incurred by 
the University in respect of the new Laboratory is at present £2,415. 
18s. 6d. (to which must be added £350 which will become due on the 
land (at the end of next year). The debt on the Stanley Grove 
Laboratory, which was £2,536. 5s. 3d. at the time of the removal, 
must also be kept in mind. These three sums make the total debt 
£5,302. 3s. 9d. at the present date. Of the £8,556. 8s. 7d. available 
for the purpose of building and equipping the new Laboratory Mr. 
Crossley has given £2,000 towards building, and the Council have 
allotted £400 out of the Manchester Corporation grant towards the 
equipment of the Laboratories. A sum of £20 has also been received 
from the Lancashire Medical Veterinary Association for the same 
purpose.* 

Description of the New Laboratory. 
The new Laboratory consists of a main building 150 ft. in length 
and 60 ft. in width, with a caretaker's cottage and out-buildings 
attached to it. The building stands on its own grounds, measuring 
5,831| square yards, extending between High Street and York Place. 
The space available round the building will gradually be utilised 
in carrying out experiments upon purification of water, soil bacteria 
and their influence upon plants and animals, the erection of annexes 
to some of the experimental laboratories, and various other purposes. 

* A sum of £6000 was received from the Royal Infirmary in compensation for tlie displacement of the 
Stanley Grove Laboratory. Of this sum, £1000 was contributed towards expenses caused by cerUin 
requirements of the Royal Infirmary. 



396 REPORT 

The front of tlie Laboratory runs along York Place and has a 
north, exposition, and the main entrance is at the east end of the 
building. The front elevation was designed by Professor Capper. 
The ground floor is divided by a straight passage extending from 
the east to the west end of the building. On the northern side of 
the passage are all the laboratories requiring a north light for 
microscopical work. Given in order from east to west the laboratories 
are devoted to the following purposes : — 

1. Clinical Pathology (22 ft. x 27 ft.), to be used chiefly for work 
done for the Royal Infirmary. 

2. Practical Bacteriology (35 ft. x 27 ft.), to accommodate 24 

students. 

3. Research Laboratory (29 ft. x 27 ft.), sub-divided into four 

small private research rooms (12 ft. x 6 ft.), a common work 
room, micro-photographic and dark rooms. 

4. A small research room (12 ft. x 6 ft.) for work of a dangerously 

infectious kind; this room is easily isolated from all the 
others. 
6. Municipal Investigations Laboratory (30 ft. x 27 ft.), with places 
for seven workers. Attached to this room is an Incubating 
Chamber. 

6. Preparation room (22 ft. x 30 ft.), with working benches for 

four laboratory servants. This room gives access to the 
Refrigerating Chamber, and to a cellar used for storing pur- 
poses. 

7. On the south side of the building and communicating with 
the preparation room is the Engine room (25 ft. x 14 fit. 6 in.), 
where centrifugal, shaking, grinding, &c. machines are kept. 
This room is also used as a store room. 

The following laboratories are on the south side of the central 
passage : — 

8. Dissecting room with dark room (21 ft. x 17 ft. 6 in.). 

9. Chemical store room (20 ft. x 10 ft.). 

10. Balance room (12 ft. x 6 ft. 9 in.). 

11. Sanitary Chemistry laboratory (52 ft. 6 in. x 17 ft. 6 in.), 
with accommodation for 18 students. 

On the first floor, beginning at the east end and north side of the 
building, there are the following rooms : — 

12. Lecture room (27 ft. x 22 ft.). 

13. Apparatus room (22 ft. x 15 ft.), connected with the museum. 

14. Museum (79 ft. x 22 ft.) for the display of specimens illus- 
trating the mode of production of preventable human and 
animal diseases, and the exhibition of specimens, plans, 
drawings, &c., relating to public health matters. 

15. Museum preparation and store room (31 ft. x 22 ft.). 



REPORT 397 



On the soutli side of the huilding, beginning at the west end of 
the first floor, the following rooms are situated : — 

16. Staff's common room (25 ft. x 17 ft.). 

17. Director's laboratory (27 ft. x 18 ft.). 

18. Library (67 ft. x 18 ft.). 

19. Director's office (13 ft. 6 in. x 18 ft.). 

20. Secretary's office (12 ft. x 18 ft.). 

21. Documents' room (6 ft. x 18 ft.). 

At the west end of the building there are yards and outbuildings, 
including a cubical room measuring 1,000 cubic feet, and fitted up 
for the purpose of testing various methods of disinfection. 

The whole building is heated by hot water and lighted by elec- 
tricity, and all the laboratories are fitted with an abundant supply of 
gas and water. The floors of the first storey are covered with lino- 
leum; those on the ground floor are concreted and covered with 
asphalt. As far as possible all the angles between the walls, floors, 
and ceilings are rounded to facilitate cleaning. On the ground floor 
the laboratory sinks discharge into channels made in the floor and 
lined with asphalt; these channels are covered with movable iron 
plates, they discharge externally into movable earthenware re- 
ceptacles, which act at the same time as seals and intercepting traps ; 
these discharge into ordinary gullies. The tables in the rooms where 
bacteriological work is conducted are made of glass and iron. 
The metal supports allow the floors to be easily cleaned. Each 
room is ventilated independently by shafts opening externally 
above the ridge of the roof, acting as outlets, and openings in 
the windows acting as inlets, the natural system of ventilation 
being adopted all through the building. In all the rooms ample 
provision has been made for the admission of natural light. The 
objects which the director had in view in designing these laboratories 
were — 1st, To provide the permanent and occasional workers with a 
healthy abode where they could carry out work which is at times 
dangerous without unnecessary risk; 2nd, To prevent the teaching 
work from interfering with the municipal work and mce versa; 3rd, 
To group the rooms in such a way as to facilitate the work of each 
section and save time as much as possible ; 4th, To avoid any un- 
necessary expenditure on building and fittings whenever this was 
possible with impairing efficiency. 

W. J. Crossley, 
Dec. 1st, 1905. Chairman of the Advisory Committee. 



398 REPORT 



Work Done in the Public Health 
Laboratory 

DURING THE YEARS 1904 AND 1905 (fIRST HALF). 

DIRECTOR'S REPORT. 

This work may be considered under the following heads : — 

I. — Investigations carried out for Public Authorities, etc. 
II. — Teaching Work. 
III. — Research. 

I— INVESTIGATIONS FOR PUBLIC AUTHORITIES. 

Staff. 

Director : Sheridan Delepine, M.B. (Edin.), M.Sc. (Yict.), B.Sc. 
(Lausanne). 

Bacteriological Section : E. J. Sidebotham, M.A. (Camb.), M.B., 
M.R.C.S.; J. R. Carver, M.D. (Camb.), D.P.H. (Camb.), 

Arthur Sellers, M.D. (Edin.), D.P.H. (Vict.). 

Chemical Section : G. J. Fowler, D.Sc. (Vict.) ; W. B. Ramsden, 
M.B. (Vict.), B.Sc. (Vict.). 

Secretary : E. C. Iliff. 

Technical Assistant : F. Simons. 

Investigations for Sanitary Authorities. 

Prevention of disease saves suffering and loss of life to a much 
greater extent than the best methods of treatment, for treatment can 
only repair, often incompletely, the damages caused by disease. 
Nothing can be more gratifying to the physician or surgeon, as well 
as to his patients, than the successful application of a good treatment, 
but it is quite obvious that if a disease is preventable it should not 
occur at all. The highest aim of medicine is the prevention of 
disease. Infection is responsible for a very large proportion of the 
total number of cases of disease, and early diagnosis of a case of 
infectious disease is one of the most important means of prevention. 
By bacterial methods the diagnosis of many diseases such as 
Diphtheria, Typhoid Fever, Tuberculosis, Anthrax, Cholera, Plague, 



REPORT 399 

etc., can generally be obtained at an early stage of the disease, and 
before the usual symptoms allow an absolutely certain diagnosis to be 
made. Bacteriological methods are not infallible, but they yield a 
very high percentage of accurate results. For instance, while it is 
difficult in the early stages of Typhoid Fever to establish on the basis 
of ordinary symptoms, an early and reliable diagnosis in more than 
50 or 60 per cent, of the cases, by bacteriological methods it is 
possible to make an accurate diagnosis in 90 to 95 per cent, of the 
cases. In addition to this there are many obscure cases of disease, 
the nature of which can be found during life only by careful bacterio- 
logical investigation. 

A knowledge of the actual cause of a case of illness is not only use- 
ful for the purpose of applying preventive measures in connection 
with that case, and of protecting in time other individuals, but 
it also adds considerably to the utility of statistical returns. An 
exact knowledge of the distribution of disease allows the authorities 
to concentrate their preventive measures where they are needed, 
and to avoid the waste of money and energy resulting from the 
application of preventive methods where they are not needed. 

If, however, bacteriological examinations are to be of use to 
authorities, and to the public generally, even the simplest of them 
must be conducted with considerable care and a sense of serious res- 
ponsibility which can be found only in well-trained bacteriologists 
whose medical training has made them familiar with disease. 

The time may come when an army of medical bacteriologists will 
be available who will deal with morbid products in the same way as 
chemical public analysts deal with various substances which have 
to be analysed chemically. But at the present time experts of this 
kind are not available outside well-organised laboratories, and it 
is for this reason that the University has undertaken this work, which 
is one of public utility. Moreover, there are numerous investigations 
the practical applications of which are not immediately obvious, but 
which form the basis of further advances; the expense of these 
investigations cannot be covered by fees, and can only be undertaken 
in endowed laboratories. 

In the field of Sanitary Chemistry there are many very important 
questions bearing upon public health, and which require lengthy 
investigations before they can be dealt with by the Public Analyst 
in his routine work. To provide for the study of such questions a 
suitable Chemical Laboratory has been added to the Bacteriological 
Laboratory, and two very competent chemists have been invited to 
co-ordinate their work with that of the bacteriologists. Great care 
has been taken, however, to prevent any clashing between the work 
done in the laboratory and that done outside. We have confined 
our work to the study of the causes and 'prevention of disease, and more 
specially those diseases which are produced by microbes, by larger 
parasites, or by noxious influences of any kind connected with food, 
air, water, or occupation. We have not attempted to manufacture 



400 REPOET 

certain bacterial products used in the treatment of disease, and which 
arc at the present time prepared by well-endowed institutions and 
great commercial firms. 

In connection with our examinations we have collected since 1895 
a large mass of facts relating to each case of disease, and these facts 
have been gradually classified with the view of extending our know- 
ledge of the conditions favouring the occurrence and spread of several 
diseases prevalent in this district. This information, which is not 
included in ofl&cial routine reports, has frequently been communicated 
privately to Medical Officers of Health. A detailed account of the 
organisation of this part of our work and of some of the results 
obtained will be given in our next report. 

In the course of the last few years cases of the following human 
and animal diseases have been investigated in the Laboratory : — 
Diphtheria, Typhoid Fever, Tuberculosis (human, bovine, equine, 
porcine, avian), Pseudo Tuberculosis, Pneumonia, Typhus, Asiatic 
Cholera, Plague, Malta Fever, Malaria, Aleppo Boil, Hydrophobia, 
Anthrax, Tetanus, Malignant (Edema, Septicaemia, Bacterial Food 
Poisoning by Milk, Cheese, Meat, etc.. Gonorrhoea, Cancrum Oris, 
Tumours (including Cancer), Actinomycosis, Botryomycosis, Glanders, 
Pleuro-Pneumonia, Fowl Cholera, Psorospermosis, Echinococcosis, 
Strongylosis, Bilharziosis, Myasis, etc., etc. 

Various products have been examined for evidence of noxious 
properties. 

Water, air, sewage, milk, cheese, butter, ice-cream, beer, wine, 
meat, bread, preserved foods, food preservatives, etc. 

We have also tested and improved various methods of Sterilisation 
by steam. Chemical Disinfection, Filtration, Treatment of Sewage, 
etc. 

During the last year several special investigations have been 
carried out, these are mentioned under the head of Research. 

The routine work done during the course of the year 1904 and 
1905, up to June 24, is summed up in the following tables : — 



REPORT 401 



REPORTS ISSUED DURING 1904. 

C.B., County Borough; M.B., Municipal Borough; U.D., Urban District; 

R.D., Rural District. 

N.B. — The number of specimens yielding positive results is given under the 
figure showing the total number of specimens examined. 

Place. Diphtheria. Typhoid. Sputum, Milk, Various. Total. 

Stockport, c.B 5? II ^ — — 121 

Manchester, c.B ^f?^ ^ ffl ^^4 ^^ 3156 

Eccles, M.B ^s u n — I 98 

Withington, u.i) ?! ?^ u I i 156 

Salford, C.B ^11 'It «I 23 3 398 

Stretford, u.d f I I — — 38 

Moss Side, u.d 27 le ^ _ _ 53 

Crewe, m.b ^3 5 ^ _ _ ^g 

Alderley Edge, u.d... J J — — — 2 

Blackburn, c.B ^ ^ — "13 ^51 

Haydock, U.D J — ? — — 4 

Newton-in-Makerfield, 

U.D 8 «• « — 2 28 

Oldham, c.b ?f ^ — I — 99 

Darwen, m.b 2 — — — 9 

Bury, c.B 11 " ^5 — 5 102 

Chadderton, u.d I '^ I — i 16 

Rawtenstall, m.b ' f — — — 15 

Prestwich, u.d ? J — — — ■ 12 

Urmston, u.d f \ ] — — 6 

Bucklov^, R.D I \ \ — — 6 

Knutsford, u.d — I — — — 2 

Winsford, u.d — I — — — 2 

Northwich, u.d 1 

I 40 5 1 Aft 

Northwich, r.d J ^ 1 — — i 4° 



402 EEPORT 

Place, Diphtheria. Typhoid. Sputum. Millt, 

Congleton, m.b I I 2 

Middleton, m.b g 5 7 

Accrington, m.b ] — — 

Royton, u.d ] — — 

Altrincham, u.d I ^ — — 

Nantwich, r.d ] — — 

Ash ton -on -Mersey, 

U D 15 5 

Failsworth, u.d \ I — 

Levenshulme, u.d. ... ■^s I I 

Wilmslow, U.D — ? } 

Mossley, m.b — J — 

Heywood, m.b ^ I — 

Blackpool, M.B II f^ — * 

Rochdale, c.b I I i* 

Heaton Norris, u.d.... '^i 1 

Marple, u.d J — — — 

Farnworth, u.d — I 2 

Cheadle and Gatley, 

U-D J ^ _ _ 

Lancashire County 

Council ^ 

Hale, U.D * — 1 

Abram, u.d — \ 

Cheshire County 

Council — — — 

Ashton-under-Lyne, 

M.B — — 

Swinton and Pendle- 

bury, U.D 20 11 

Bredbury and Rom- 

iley, U.D \ I — 



Various. 



— — — 6 



17 



Total, 

6 

15 
I 

I 

7 
I 

II 

4 
34 

9 

I 

23 
179 

30 

20 

I 

5 
II 

46 

5 
2 



20 

35 
4 



EEPORT 

Place. Diphtheria. Typhoid. Sputum. Milk, 

Manchester Port San- 
itary — — — — 

Bowdon, u.D 1 — I — 

Adiington, u.D — — — — 

Lymm, u.D i f — — 

Barton-upon-Irwell, 

R.D I \ — — 

Little Lever, u.d — o o — 

Runcorn, r.d ? — — — 

Denton, u.d — I J I 

Sale, u.d 2 1 — 

Nantwich, u.d — I — — 

Ladywell Sanitorium .. ^ — — — 

Ulverston, u.d ^ — — — 

Burton-on-Trent, c.b... — — — ff 

Huddersfield, c.b — — — I 

Derby, c.b ? — - " - 

Crompton, u.d J — — - 

Various '? '^ ^? I 

2383 1407 1111 642 

742 580 387 77 



403 



Various. Total. 





2 


I 


3 




4 


\ — 


5 




12 




2 


I 


276 




44 




66 




2 




14 


I ^73 


326 



298 5840 



GROSS RESULTS OF SOME OF THE CURRENT 
BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Positive 
Total. Positive. Per Cent. 

Diphtheria 2383 742 31*1 

Typhoid 1 407 580 4 1 '2 

Tuberculosis (Sputum) mi 387 347 

„ (Milk) 642 77 11-9 



404 REPORT 

REPORTS ISSUED DURING THE FIRST AND SECOND 
QUARTERS OF THE YEAR 1905. 

C.B., County Borough; M.B., Municipal Borough; U.D,, Urban District; 

R.D,, Rural District. 

N.B. — The number of specimens yielding positive results is given under the 

figure showing the total number of specimens examined. 

Place. Diphtheria. Typhoid. Sputum. Milk. Various. Total. 

Stockport, c.B ^ " ^ — 3 61 

Manchester, c.B f| f^ ^, 1| 26 1866 

Eccles, M.B ^2 ^2 ^ — I 38 

Withington, u.d fo % n — — 95 

Salford, c.B 1^ t^ ?f — i 150 

Stretford, u.d f f — — i7 

Crewe, m.b ^5 ?1 — i 35 

Alderley Edge, u.d.... ^ f 5 — — 24 

Blackburn, c.B 1 ?f f! 'S 8 206 

Haydock, u.d | — ? — — 4 

Newton-in-Makerfield, 

u.d 1 5 — — 14 

Oldham, c.B ^l ft — — i 58 

Darwen, m.b 1 1 — — 7 

Bury, c.B ^l l I — i 26 

Chadderton, u.d f I — — n 

Rawtenstall, m.b I ? — — — 7 

Prestwich, u.d — : I ? — — — 11 

Urmston, u.d ? — 2 — i 9 

Bucklow, R.D 3 1 — — li 

Knutsford, u.d I — — — — i 

Middleton, u.d — — — — 27 27 

Winsford, U.D I J — — — 2 

Northwich, u.d | ] — — — 9 

Congleton, m.b \ ] \ — — 3 

Middleton, m.b — 00 2 — 10 



REPORT 405 

Place. Diphtheria. Typhoid. Sputum. Milk. Various. Total. 

Royton, u.d ] — — — — i 

Altrincham, u.d I I — — — 4 

Nantwich, r.d ? — — — — 3 

Ashton-on-Mersey.u.D. f — | — — 4 

Failsworth, u.d. ... — - I — — — 5 

Levenshulme, u.d. ... 3 J ^l — — 19 

Wilmslow, U.D. ... I — 3 — — 12 

Heywood, m.b ^ I — — — 14 

Hollingworth, u.d. ... — — — — — — 

Blackpool, M.B. ... ^7 ff — 90 

Rochdale, c.b. ... J 33 i — 19 

Withnell, u.d. ... — I — — — 2 

Heaton Norris, u.d.... — J — — — i 

Marple, u.d — — ? — — 2 

Farnworth, u.d. ••• .^ I — — — i 

CheadleandGatley,u.D. J — — — — i 
Lancashire County 

Council — — — — 4 4 

Hale, U.D ^l I \ — — 15 

Cheshire County 

Council — — — — I I 

Swinton&Pendlebury ? * — — — 12 

Bredbury & Romiley J 1 — — — 2 

Bowdon, U.D 1 — — — — I 

Lymm, U.D I — — — 2 11 

Sale, U.D I — 2 — — 7 

Nantwich, u.d J — — — — i 

Northwich, r.d. ... \ — — — — 7 

Ulverston, u.d. ... ^ — — — i 39 

Lady well Sanatorium ^ — — — — 285 

Bristol, C.B — — — — 2 

Bolton, C.B — — — — 16 16 



406 



Place. 

Burton-on-Trent, c.b. 

Derby, c.b 

Baguley Sanatorium 

Gars tang, r.d 

Walton-le-Dale, u.d. 
Chorlton Guardians. . . 
Royal Infirmary, 
Manchester 
Various 



REPORT 










Diphtheria. 


Typhoid. 


Sputum. 


Milk. 

47 

4 


Various. 


Total. 
47 


47 

17 

1 ? 


1 


2 

1 


6 

4 




I 


54 
6 

I 









3 


I 

I 


I 
4 


8 




1 
1 


58 

25 




lO 

104 


10 
171 



1512 

491 



710 

253 



632 

251 



513 

46 



210 3577 



GROSS RESULTS OF SOME OF THE CURRENT 
BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS 

For the Half-year ending December, 1904, to June, 1905. 





ToUl. 


Positive. 


Per cent 


Diphtheria 


. 1512 


491 


32-4 


Typhoid Fever 


710 


253 


35'6 


Tuberculosis (human, pulmonary) .. 


632 


251 


397 


Tuberculosis (bovine, milk) ... 


• 513 


46 


8-9 



EEPORT 



407 



II.— TEACHING WORK. 



WtccsCbanccllor : 

ALFRED HOPKINSON, K.C., LL.D., M.A., B.C.L. 

•Rcfiletrar : 

E. FIDDES, M.A. 



Director : 

SHERIDAN DELEPINE, M.B., B.Sc, M.Sc. 



Public Health 

Public Health Administration. 



Comparative Pathology and 
Bacteiiology. 



Chemistry 



Physics and Metem'ology 

(Zoology 
Biology 

Infectious Diseases 
Veterinary Hygiene 
Vetennary Inspection .. 



^eacbtttd staff: 

Lecturer, C. H, Tatteksall, M.R.C.S., D.P.H. 
Lecturer, James Niven, M.A., M.B. (Cambridge). 

Procter Professor, A. Sheridan Delepine, M.B., 
CM. (Edinburgli), B.Sc, (Lausanne), M.Sc. (Man- 
chester). 

Assistant Lecturer, A, Sellers, M.D. (Edinburgh), 
D.P.H. (Manchester). 

Lecturer in Practical Bacteriology, 
E. J. Sidp:botham, M.A., M.B, (Cambridge). 

Lecturer in Bacteriological Chemistry, 
G. J. Fowler, D.Sc. (Manchester). 

^Professor Harold B. Dixon, M.A. (Oxford), M.Sc. 
(Manchester), F.R.S., Director of Chemical Lab- 

Professor W. H. Perkin, Ph.D. (Munich), F.R.S. 
Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator, 
D. L. Chapman, B.A. (Oxford). 

Professor A. Schuster, Ph.D. (Heidelberg), Sc.D. 

(Cambridge), M.Sc. (Manchester) F.R.S. , Director 

of Physical Laboratories. 
Lecturer in Physics, Charles H. Lees, Sc.D. 

(Manchester). 
Assistant Lecturer in Physics and Lecturer in 

Meteorology, G. C. Simpson, M.Sc. (Manchester). 

{Professor S. J. HiCKSON, M.A. (Cambridge), D.Sc. 
(London), F.R.S. 
Professor F, E. Welss, M.Sc. (Manchester), D.Sc. 
(London), 

rClinical Lecturer, A. K. Gordon, B.A., M.B., B.C. 
• I (Cambridge). 

. Lecturer, William Woods, F.R.C.V.S. (England). 

(A. HOLBURN, M.R.C.V.S. (England) ^ For 
•{G. W. Brittlebank, M.R.C.V.S. (Eng.); M'nchest'r 



408 REPORT 



Diploma in Public Health Committee. 

The Vice-Chancellor. 
Professor Delepine. 
Professor Dixon. 
Professor Perkin. 
Professor Schuster. 
Professor Stirling. 
Professor Weiss. 
Dr. Niven. 
Dr. Tattersall. 

The External Examiner in Public Health. 
Dr. J. Lane Notter. 



Diploma in Veterinary State Medicine Committee, 

The Vice-Chancellor. 
Professor Delepine. 
Professor Dixon. 
Professor Hickson. 
Professor Perkin. 
Professor Schuster. 
Professor Stirling. 
Dr. NivEN. 
Dr. Tattersall. 
Mr. Woods. 

The External Examiner in Veterinary Medicine. 
Sir J. McPadyean. 



REPORT 409 



Tlie organisation of the Public Health teaching is quite distinct 
from, that of the investigation work of the Laboratory. As in other 
University Departments, the Public Health Department is under 
the control of the Senate, which has appointed two standing com- 
mittees, viz, : — The Public Health Committee and the Diploma in 
Veterinary State Medicine Committee (see p. 32), the function of 
which is to report to the Senate upon special questions. 

The following courses have been given at the Laboratory during 
the last session : — 

1. Courses for medical men preparing for the Public Health 
Service. 

(a) Comparative Pathology and Bacteriology (including food 
inspection). 

(6) Sanitary Chemistry. 

(c) Advanced courses in Public Health, including Sanitary 
Administration. 

2. Courses for chemists intending to become Public Analysts, 
Agricultural Chemists, &c. 

(a) Practical Bacteriology — part of Course 1 (a). 

(b) Bacteriological Chemistry. 

3. Courses for Veterinary Surgeons who desire to become Veteri- 
nary Inspectors under public Authorities. 

(a) Comparative Pathology and Bacteriology (including food 
inspection). vSee 1 (a). 

(6) Sanitary Chemistry. See 1 (b). 

(c) Veterinary Hygiene. 

4. Courses for Medical men, Chemists, Veterinary Surgeons, &c., 
who wish to undertake special researches bearing upon causes or 
prevention of human or animal diseases. These students often join 
one or more of the above courses, and, in addition receive personal 
tuition previous to undertaking research work proper. 

5. Post graduate courses in Clinical Pathology for Medical men 
wishing to study some of the recent advances in Microscopical, 
Bacteriological, and Chemical methods of diagnosis. 

6. A special course of Dental Bacteriology was given during the 
Session 1904-5 pending the rearrangement of the courses in the 
Dental Department. 

During the Session 1904-5 the number of students attending these 
various courses has been as follows : — 



410 



REPORT 



1. Public Health course 

2. Bacteriology for Chemical students 

3. Veterinary State Medicine courses 

4. Research students 

5. Clinical Pathology 

6. Dental Bacteriology 



17 
8 
5 
6 

25 
8 

69 



One of these students began Research work after entering for 
Public Health course, thus causing a double entry, so that the actual 
number of students was 68. Of these 68 students 25 attended a 
practical course given at Burnley. The giving of extra mural 
courses has thrown so much work upon the staff, that it has 
been found desirable to discontinue them for the present. Arrange- 
ments have been made for the teaching of Dental Bacteriology in the 
Medical School, so that in the future Dental students will not attend 
at the Laboratory unless they enter as Research students. TJie 
number of students attending courses which will continue to he given 
at the Laboratory was therefore 68 minus 33; that is 35 during the 
past academic session (see p. 38). 

In previous reports the entries have been given from January to 
January; in this report they are given from June to June. The 
following table gives the entries for the three previous academic 
years for comparison with the year 1904-5. The reduction in the 
number of Research Students during the Session 1904-5 was due to 
the moving of the Laboratory. 



Comparison of Entries for the Sessions 1902 to 1905. 



Session 
1901-2 
Winter 



Session 
1902-3 
Winter 



Practical Bacteriology 5 

Practical Pathology and Microscopy. 6 

Sanitary Chemistry 5 

Laboratory Practice 2 

Veterinary Hygiene — 

Dental Bacteriology — 

Research* 

Advanced Public Health Lectures ... — 
Clinical Pathology (extramural) 

Burnley — 



.. 10 . 


.. 17 ... 


. . . 13 . 


.. 15 ... 


... 13 . 


.. 16 ... 


... . 


.. 3 ... 


..." 3 . 


'.'. 8 .".'.' 


... — . 


.. 33 ... 




.. 20 ... 



Session Session 
1903-4 1904-5 

Winter Winter 

19 

13 

13 

1 

5 



25 



* The number of research students working at any time in the laboratory is not 
indicated by the number of entries, because entities are sometimes made for more than 
one session, other entries are made for shorter periods. 



EEPORT 

Summer 

Practical Bacteriology 10 

Sanitary Chemistry 1 

Laboratory practice 

Research* 

Bacteriological Chemistry — 

Clinical Pathology (extramural) 

Wigan — 

Totals for the whole Academic year 29 
Entries for postgraduate courses not 

usually given — 

Entries of Regular Students prepar- 
ing for diplomas, or degrees, or 

doing research work 29 



411 



Summer 


Summer 


Summer 


9 .. 


4 . 


.. 6 


5 .. 


. — . 


. . — 


3 .. 


— . 


.. — 


3 .. 


3 . 


1 


— 


— 


.. 2 



22 ... — 



59 ... 141 



75 



97 



33 



59 



66 



64 



Of the 68 students taking courses during the year : — 

16 were medical graduates of the Edinburgh University. 
9 „ „ „ „ Victoria 

9 „ „ „ „ Aberdeen „ 

3 „ „ „ • „ Glasgow „ 

2 „ „ „ „ Ireland „ 
1 was a medical graduate of the Cambridge „ 
1 „ „ „ „ Brussels „ 
1 „ „ „ „ Bombay „ 

3 were members of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 
3 „ „ „ „ Veterinary Surgeons. 
3 „ fellows „ „ „ „ 

1 was a fellow of the Institute of Chemistry. 

7 were chemical students. 

8 were dental students. 

1 was a medical student. 

68 (excluding double entries). 



Of these students 43 worked in the Laboratory. 

„ „ 25 attended practical courses held in Burnley. 



412 REPORT 

These students came from the following places : — 

Manchester 21 

Burnley 20 

Nelson 4 

Blackburn 3 

Briersfield 2 

Bolton 3 

Oldham 2 

Dukinfield 2 

Ramsbottom 

Stockport 

Bury 

Cheadle 

Preston 

Colne 

Bombay 

Ashton-under-Lyne 

Darwen 

Sheffield 

Wigan 

Total 68 

(Owing to the alteration in the mode of reckoning the year, the 
following entries do not appear in the report for the year 1903 nor 
in the present report for the year 1904-5. 

During that period of six months the students attending the 
various courses were as follows : — - 

Public Health courses 8 

Bacteriology for Chemical students 1 

Research 1 

Clinical Pathology (extramiiral course, Wigan 1) 22 

Total 32 

By deducting 22 students attending extramural courses there 
remain 10 regular students (see also p. 40). 

Degrees and Diplomas obtained by Students who have worked 
IN THE Laboratory between January 1904, and July 1905. 

D.P.H. — The following 17 candidates have obtained the Diploma 
in Public Health of the University: — 

E. M. Ashcroft, J. R. Hutchinson, C. S. O'Neill, C. C. Webb, 
E. B. Leech, Reginald Lawrence, W. C. Rigby, 0. H. Chapman, 
James Howard, Harold Thorp, W. A. Newall (old student), Isobel 
Tate, F. D. Blandy, B. K. Goldsmith, A. H. Radcliffe, G. G. Buckley, 
C. W. Crawshaw. 



REPORT 413 

D.V.S.M. — The following 2 candidates received the Diploma in 
Veterinary State Medicine of the University : — 

J. S. Lloyd and J. M. Stirling. 

M.D. — The following 7 candidates received the Degree of M.D. 
of the University : — 

M. B. Arnold, A. C. Clarke (commended), A. W. Latham (gold 
medal), Thomas Tierney, J. J. Butterworth, W. W. Clemesha, H. W. 
Russell (gold medal). (Dr. Arnold and Dr. Tierney did only part of 
their Dissertation work in the Laboratory.) 

The following 4 candidates have obtained the Diploma in Public 
Health of other examining Boards : ■ — 

D.P.H., Cambridge.— A. B. Arnold, M.D., Vict.; Harold Kerr, 
M.B., Ch.B., Edin. 

D.P.H., Conj. Board, London.— H. Holt, M.B., Ch.B., Yict. 
D.P.H., Durham.— J. M. Ferguson, L.R.C.P. 



Advanced Course of Public Health Lectures. 

This course was given during the year 1904 by well-known experts, 
who came from various parts of the country at our invitation, to deliver 
one lecture each on subjects upon which they are well recognised 
authorities. The course was attended by Medical Officers of Health, 
Lecturers in the Public Health Department, and advanced students, 
33 in all. Each lecture was fully illustrated by experiments, demon- 
stration of methods, specimens, photographs, diagrams etc. After 
lecture the Laboratory was opened to members of the class, and 
members of the Laboratory staff exhibited or demonstrated specimens, 
apparatus, experiments, or methods of interest to Medical Officers of 
Health. 

The following outline of subjects suitable for lecture was pre- 
pared by the Director for the guidance of lecturers : — 

1. Climate in relation to disease (including Geographical distribu- 

tion, Meteorology and methods of observation). 

2. Family and race in relation to disease (Ethnology in relation to 

Etiology) . 

3. Food and drink in relation to disease (including preparation, 

preservation, and analysis). 

4. Air in relation to disease (inchwiing ventilation, methods of 

analysis). 

5. Water in relation to disease (including collection, storage, dis- 

tribution, analysis, etc.). 

6. Sewage and other refuse in relation to disease (including collec- 

tion, storage, distribution, analysis, etc.). 



414 REPORT 

7. Soil in relation to disease (including Geology in relation to dis- 

ease). 

8. Habitation in relation to disease (private dwellings, workshops, 

schools, hospitals, etc.). 

9. Clothing in relation to disease. 

10. Social habits in relation to disease. 

11. Occupations in relation to disease. 

12. Parasites in relation to disease (including parasitological Zoology 

and Botany), 

13. Spread of infectious diseases (Epidemiology). 

14. Diseases prevalent at various periods of the history of man. 

History of the development of preventive methods. 

The subjects falling under these various groups may in many 
cases be treated from one of the following points of view : — 

1. Causation and modes of spread of disease (Epidemiology and 

Etiology including Diagnosis) (Human and animal diseases). 

2. Prevention and control of disease (Human and animal diseases). 

3. Hygiene of the individual, of congeries of individuals (human or 

animal). 

4. Law and administration. 

6. Surveying, Engineering, Architecture. 

The lectures delivered during the year 1904 will be found in the 
first volume of the Archives of the Laboratory. 



REPORT 415 



III.— RESEARCH WORK. 

The research work carried out in the Laboratory during the last 
1| years falls under two categories : — 

1. Researches carried out by the members of the staff in con- 
nection with investigations for Public Authorities but apart from the 
routine reporting, 

2. Researches carried out by students or graduates who desire to 
learn methods of research or to conduct some original investigations. 

I. Researches by Members of the Staff. 

Our obligations towards Public Authorities and the absence of 
any Research Endowment, do not permit the members of the staff 
to select their field of research. Many questions which appeal 
strongly to us on account of their importance must necessarily be 
left aside so long as the duties which we have undertaken claim all 
the time which it would be our desire to devote to independent re- 
search. Fortunately our work for Public Authorities does not consist 
only in the application of well-established methods, but in addition 
to this routine work, the scientific value of which is chiefly of a 
statistical value, we have frequently to study questions which require 
for their solution lengthy and sometimes difficult researches bearing 
on facts about which little is known. Although these investigations 
have always a practical aim they are none the less of a purely scientific 
character, the only disadvantage connected with this form of research 
being a want of continuity. 

The reorganisation of our work in the new Laboratory, and the 
increased facilities which the Laboratory affoi-ds us, will, I hope, 
allow me to make arrangements by which each member of the staff 
will in the near future have enough time to undertake continuous 
investigations independently of the ordinary routine work. 

Some of the research work carried out during the last eighteen 
months by Dr. Sidebotham, Dr. Carver, Dr. Sellers, Dr. Fowler, 
Dr. Ramsden and myself may be mentioned here to show that, not- 
withstanding the difficulties under which we have laboured, some 
useful scientific work has been undertaken : — 

1. Influence of preserved foods on the causation of certain 
bacterial diseases (for the Manchester Corporation). 

2. Bacteriology of sewer air (for the Manchester Corporation). 

3. Role of flies in the dissemination of certain pathogenic bacteria 
(Manchester Corporation). 

4. Relative importance of imported food, home-grown fodder, 
manufactured manures, infection of the soil, in the causation of 
Anthrax (County Council of Cheshire). 



416 REPOET 

5. Persistence of tubercle bacilli in dairy products manufactured 
with the milk of tuberculous cows (County Council of Cbesbire). 

6. Pollution of the Eiver Lune and its dangers (County Council 
of Lancashire.) 

7. Possible dangers of infection from tEe use of inferior bedding 
wool (flock) (County Council of Lancashire). 

8. Causes of failure of sterilisation of milk by steam (Ashton- 
under-Lyne). 

9. Influence of trade effluents upon the pollution of streams 
(Carlisle Eural District Council and other authorities). 

10. A comparative study of the bacteriology and chemistry of 
various waters. 

11. Standardising of disinfectants and relative value of various 
chemical disinfectants (Laboratory investigation). 

12. Comparative study of various methods used for estimating the 
quantity of formaldehyde in food (by Dr. Eamsden, Research Fellow 
in Sanitary Chemistry), etc. 

Some of these researches have been completed, others are still 
proceeding. An account of some of them will be found among the 
scientific papers published in connection with this report. 

II. Researches by Laboratory Students. 
The nature of the work done by various research students may be 
briefly summarised as follows : — 

John W. Wells, M.D. (Edin.), Influence of cod liver oil, Sesame oil, 

petroleum, cod liver oil emulsion, and simple feeding upon 

tuberculosis. 
R. Prosser White, M.D. (Edin.), etiology of coryza. 
R. Lawrence ,M.D. (Vict.), Changes occurring in the central nervous 

system of patients affected with malignant tumours. 
A. W. Latham, M.B. (Vict.), The changes occurring in organs in 

connection with invasion by secondary tumours (M.D. thesis, 

gold medal, 1904). 
J. J. Butterworth (M.B.), The action of arsenic on cardiac and 

skeletal muscle and fat (M.D. thesis, 1904). 
II. W. Russell (M.B.), Tuberculous infection of the lungs and 

bronchial glands in guinea pigs (M.D. thesis, gold medal, 1905). 
A. C. Clarke (M.B.), Lesions produced in lymphatic glands by 

varieties of the tubercle bacillus (M.D. thesis, commended, 1905). 
M. B. Arnold (M.B.), Diphtheria toxin and antitoxin (only partly 

prepared in the Bacteriological Laboratory (M.D. thesis, 1905). 

Some of these contributions are published in the Archives of the 
Laboratory. 

A selected list of scientific communications, based upon work done 
in the Bacteriological Laboratory since 1892 is given in Appendix II. 



REPORT 



417 



APPENDIX I. 

AUTHORITIES CONNECTED WITH THE PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY, 

1892 to 1905. 

Places which have made temporary arrangement or required occasional assistance only, and Public 

Institutions are indicated by italics. 



No. of 


T>afp of 








Medical Officer of Health, Chairman of Com- 


Reference 


Admission 


Name of Place 


Authority 


Population 1901 


mittee under Public Authority, Superinten- 
dent or Secretary of Public Institutions. 


54 


1900 


Abram 


U. D. 


6,306 


Dr. E. Hannah 


18 


1898 


Accrington 


M. B. 


43>o95 


Dr. A. Greenhalgh 


64 


1902 


Adlington 


U. D. 


4,523 


Dr. F. J. A. Mayes 


9 


1897 


Alderley Edge ... 


U. D. 


2,856 


Dr. G. W. Dowling 


31 


1898 


Altrincham 


U. D. 


16,831 


Dr. A. Golland 


57 


1 90 1 


Ashton-under-Lyne 


M. B. 


43,890 


Dr. W. H. Hughes 


33 


1899 


Ashton-upon-Mersey 


U. D. 


5,563 


Dr. C. J. Renshaw 




1905 


Atherton 


U. D. 


16,211 


Dr. J. Marsh 


50 


1900 


Audenshaw 


U. D. 


7,217 


Dr. F. W. Allkin 




1903 


Baguley Sanatorium 






Dr. B. Rhodes 




1899 


Barnsley ( Yorks^ 


M. B. 


41,083 


Dr. F. J. Sadler 


66 


1902 


Barton-upon-Irwell 


R. D. 


8,068 


Dr. A. E. Berry 


10 


1897 


Blackburn 


C. B. 


127,527 


Dr. A. Greenwood 


42 


1899 


Blackpool 


M. B. 


47.346 


Dr. F. J. H. Coutts 


93 


1897 


Bollitigton 


U. D. 


5>244 


Dr. D. W. Main 


75 


1900 


Bolton 


C. B. 


168,205 


Dr. J. E. Gould 




I9OI 


Booile 


C. B. 


58,558 


Dr. T. W. N. Barlow 


63 


I9OI 


Bowdon 


U. D. 


2,788 


Dr. M. Duggan 


61 


I9OI 


Bredbury and Romiley 


U. D. 


7,197 


Dr. F. Cant 


97 


1899 


Bristol 


C. B. 


328,842 


Dr. D. S. Davies 


21 


1898 


Bucklow 


R. D. 


19,885 


Dr. T. W. H. Garstang 




1898 


Bufuley 


C. B. 


97,044 


Dr. T. Dean 


91 


1900 


Burton upon-Trent 


M. B. 


50.386 


Dr. J. M. Cowie 


15 


1897 


Bury 


C. B. 


58,028 


Dr. A. E. Brindley 


58 


1 90 1 


Bury Rural 


R. D. 


8,088 


Dr. J. W. Cook 




1903 


Bury Dispefisary 






Mr. F. A. Woodcock (Secy.) 




1905 


Carlisle .. 


R. D. 


17,832 


Dr. J. Mac Donald 


16 


1898 


Chadderton 


U. D. 


24,892 


Dr. H. Ashton 


SI 


1900 


Cheadle and Gatley 


U. D. 


10,807 


Dr. J. H. Godson 


55 


1900 


Cheshire County Council 


C. c. 


601,970 








Sanitary Committee 


— 


— 


Dr. F. Vacher 




1094 


Diseases of Animals Acts' 












Committee 


— 


— 


Colonel Hamersley 




1900 


Chester Water Co. 






Mr. Wm. S. Moss {Secv.) 




1904 


Chorlton Guardians 






Mr. D. S. Bloomfield \Clerk) 


26 


1898 


Congleton 


M. B. 


10,706 


Dr. P. M. Davidson 


8 


1897 


Crewe ... 


M. B. 


42,075 


Dr. A. J. Laird 


14 


1897 


Darwen ... 


M. B. 


38,211 


Dr. F. G. Haworth 


69 


1902 


Denton ... 


U. D. 


14-934 


Dr. F. W. Allkin 







418 


REPORT 






98 


1899 


Derby ... 


C. B. 


105.785 


Dr. W. J. Howarth 


9S 


1898 


Doncaster 


M. B. 


28,924 


Dr. D. L. Anderson 


44 


1899 


Dukinfield 


U. D. 


18,929 


Dr. R. S. Park 


3 


1896 


Eccles ... 


M. B. 


34,369 


Dr. W. M. Hamilton 


35 


1899 


Failsworth 


U. D. 


14,152 


Dr. G. S. Leslie 




1902 


Faringdoti (Berks) 


R. D. 


11,626 


Dr. F. E. Streeten 


49 


1899 


Farnworth 


U. D. 


25,927 


Dr. A. Kershaw 




1900 


Fylde Water Board 






Mr. C. Arthur (Supt.) 






Garstang 




10,436 


Dr. F. Fisher 




1902 


Grasmere ( Westmorland) 


U. D. 


781 


Dr. R. M. Craven 




1898 


Guisborough ( Yorks) 


U. D. 


5,645 


Dr. W. W. Stainthorpe 


53 


1900 


Hale 


U. D. 


4,562 


Dr. T. A. Rothwell 




1903 


Halifax ... 


C. B. 


104,933 


Dr. J. T. Neech 


II 


1897 


Haydock 


U. D. 


8,575 


Dr. T. E. Hay ward 


47 


1899 


Heaton Norris ... 


U. D. 


9,474 


Dr. F. W. Jordan 


40 


1899 


Hey wood 


M. B. 


25,461 


Dr. H. H. L Hitchon 


41 


1899 


Hollingworth ... 


U. D. 


2,447 


Dr. W. E. S. Burnett. 


90 


1902 


Huddersfield 


C. B. 


95,008 


Dr. S. G. Moore 


39 


1899 


Hyde 


M. B. 


32,768 


Dr. J. Bennett 




1901 


Ilkeston {Derby) 


M. B. 


25,383 


Dr. J. J. Tobin 


22 


1898 


Knutsford 


U. D. 


5,172 


Dr. T. W. H. Garstang 




1903 


Ladywell Sanatorium ... 






Dr. J. W. Mullen 


30 


1898 


Lancaster 


M. B. 


40,329 


Dr. G. R. Parker 


52 


1900 


Lancashire County Council 


C. C. 1 


,827,436 








Sanitary Committee 


— 


— 


Dr. E. Sergeant 




.1905 


Diseases of Animals Acts' 












Committee 


— 


— 


Mr. J. P. Muspratt (Dep. Clerk) 




1899 


Leeds 


C. B. 


428,953 


Dr. J. S. Cameron 




1902 


Leigh 


M. B. 


40,001 


Dr. J. King 


36 


1899 


Levenshulme 


U. D. 


11,485 


Dr. H. E. Edlin 


67 


1902 


Little Lever 


U. D. 


5,119 


Dr. J. S. Pickford 




1896 


Liverpool 


C. B. 


702,235 


Dr. E. W. Hope 


65 


1902 


Lymm ... 


U. D. 


4,707 


Dr. D. C. M. Lunt 



62 



48 
27 
23 

56 



(1892)1896 Manchester Sanitary Committee.. C. B. 
„ Manchester Rivers Committee . . . 

„ Manchester Ventilation of Sewers Committee 

„ Manchester Markets Committee 

1 90 1 Manchester Port Sanitary 

Manchester Royal Infirmary 
Manchester Southern Hospital . 

1899 Marple ... 

1898 Middleton 

1898 Middlewich 

1901 Milnrow... 



543,969 



... U. D. 


5,595 


... M. B. 


25,178 


... U. D. 


4,669 


... U. D. 


8,241 



Dr. J, Niven 

Sir Bosdin T. Leach 

Councillor Dearden 

Alderman McCabe 

Dr. A. M. N. Pringle 

Mr. W. L. Saunders {Secy.) 

Mr. G. W. Fox {Secy) 

Dr. H. Burton 

Dr. W. Graham 

Dr. T. W. H. Garstang 

Dr. J. Chadwick 









REPORT 




419 


38 


1899 


Mossley... 


... M. 


B. 


i3>452 


Dr. J. Healey 


7 


1897 


Moss Side 


... U. 


D. 


26,677 


Dr. S. H. Owen 


71 


1903 


Nantwich 


... U. 


D. 


7,722 


Dr. J. D. Munroe 


32 


1898 


Nantwich 


... R. 


D. 


23,196 


Dr. R. T. Turner 




1901 


Nelson ... 


... M. 


B. 


38,816 


Dr. A. P. Millar 


91 


1900 
1905 


'Neiva7'k-upon- Trent 
Newquay Water Co. 


... M. 


B. 


14,985 


Dr. C. Wills 

Mr. G. G. BuUmore (Secy.) 


12 


1897 


Newton-in-Makerfield . 


.".".' U. 


D. 


16,699 


Dr. 11. E. Watkins 


25 


1898 


Northwich 


... U. 


D. 


17,609 


Dr. H. E. Gough 


73 


1904 


Northwich 


... R. 


D. 


22,071 


Dr. H. E. Gough 




1899 


Odiham {Hants.) 


... U. 


D. 




Dr. Reid 


13 


1897 
1902 


Oldham 

Oldham Infirmary 


... C 


B. 


137,238 


Dr. J. B Wilkinson 
Mr. E. L. Blake (Secy.) 


34 


1899 


Oswaldtwistle ... 
Pendlebury Children's h. 


'. "... U. 
^ospital 


D. 


14.200 


Dr. E. Haworth 

Mr. H. J. Eason (Secy.) 


74 


1905 


Poulton-le-Fylde 


... u. 


D. 


2,223 


Dr. J. Anderson 




1899 


Preston ... 


... c. 


B. 


112,983 


Dr. H. 0. Pilkington 


i8 


1898 


Prestwich 


... u. 


D. 


12,835 


Dr. F. Stephenson 


4>fJ 


1899 


Ramsbottom 


... u. 


D. 


15,920 


Dr. W. Deans 


17 


1898 


Rawtenstall 


... M. 


B. 


31,052 


Dr. J. E. Helm 


45 


1899 


Rochdale 

Royal Albert Asylum . 


... C 


B. 


83,112 


Dr. J. Henry 

Dr. A. R. Douglas 


29 


1898 


Royton 


'. ... u. 


D. 


14,881 


Dr. R. Young 


68 


1902 


Runcorn 


... R. 


D. 


23,224 


Dr. J. Adams 


70 


1902 


Sale 


... U. 


D. 


12,088 


Dr. 0. Withers 


5 


{1892) 1896 
1902 


Salford ... 
Sal/ord Coroner 


... C. 


B. 


220,956 


Dr. C. H. Tattersall 
Mr. Arthur Holmes 




1903 


Selby 


.".".' U. 


D. 


7,786 


Dr. T. B. Stedman 


pd 


1898 


Sheffield 


... C. 


B. 


408,994 


Dr. H. Scurfield 


I 


1895 


Stockport 


... C. 


B. 


92,832 


Dr. Meredith Young 


6 


1897 


Stretford 


... U. 


D. 


30,346 


Dr. W. J. Heslop 


60 


1901 


Swinton and Pendlebur) 


... U. 


D. 


27,001 


Dr. S. Hosegood 


19 


1898 


Todmorden 


... U. 


D. 


25,419 


Dr. C. W. Thorp 


72 


1904 


Ulverston 


... R. 


D. 


17,716 


Dr. G. H. Patterson 


20 


1898 


Urmston 


... U. 


D. 


6,591 


Dr. G. E. Fryer 




1902 


Uttoxeter (Staffs.) 


... U. 


D. 


5,135 


Dr. H. Herbert 




1905 


Waltcm-le-Dale 


... U. 


D. 


11,271 


Dr. R. Trimble 


59 


1899 


Whittingham Asylnm . 








Dr. F. Percival 


37 


1898 


Wilmslow 


'.'.'. u. 


D. 


7,361 


Dr. T. A. Somerville 


24 


1898 


Winsford 


... u. 


D. 


10,382 


Dr. T. W. H. Garstang 


4 


1896 


Withington 


... u. 


D. 


36,201 


Dr. T. C. Railton 


46 


1899 


Withnell 

Manchester Markets 
Manchester Police 


... u. 


D. 


3,349 


Dr. Henry Case 

Mr. Alfred Holborn {Inspec 

Mr. Robert Peacock 




1898 


Saltbum-by-the-Sea 


.".'.' u. 


D. 


2,578 


Dr. W. W. Stanthorpe 



420 REPORT 



APPENDIX II. 

A Selection of Original Publications by Workers in the 
Bacteriological Laboratory bearing upon Causes and Pre- 
vention of Disease. (1892 to 1905.) 

^.—DISSERTATIONS. 

1. M. B. Arnold. 

A Study of Diphtheria Toxin and Antitoxins and of the pharma- 
cological action of the preservatives added to commercial anti- 
toxins. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1905) (partly worked 
out in Bacteriological Laboratory). 

2. James Charles Buckley. 

Laryngeal Tuberculosis. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1894.) 

3. J. J. BUTTERWORTH. 

The Action of Arsenic on Cardiac and Skeletal Muscles and Fat. 
(Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1903.) 

4. W. J. S. Bythbll. 

Empyema in Children. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1902.) 
Gold Medal. {Med. Ghron., 1902.) 

5. J. R. Carver. 

The Typhoid Bacillus and its presence in the Excreta. (Dissertation 
for the M.D. Degree, Cambridge. Med. Ghron., 1898.) 

6. A. C. Clarke. 

Research upon the Lesions produced in the Lymphatic Glands by 
different varieties of the Tubercle Bacillus. (Dissertation for 
the M.D. Degree, 1905.) Gommended. 

7. Harold Coates. 

Dissemination of Tuberculosis by means of Infected Dwellings. (Dis- 
sertation for the M.D. Degree, 190^.) Gommended. Trans- 
actions of the British Congress on Tuberculosis, 1901. 

8. John Smallby Dockray. 

Experimental Calcification (more specially in relation to Hydrargyrism) 
(Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1898.) 

9. W. F. Jackson. 

The Action of Arsenic on the Kidney (1902). 

10. John Mountford Johnson. 

Disinfection by means of Vapours of some members of the Phenol 
series. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1897.) 

11. T. N. Kelynack. 

Pathology of the Vermiform Appendix. (Dissertation for the M.D. 
Degree, 1893.) Gold Medal. 



EEPORT 421 

12. W. J. Kerb. 

The Effects of Alcohol on the Liver. (Dissertation for the M.D. 

Degree, 1895.) Commended. 
W. J. Kerr. 
The Effects of Alcohol on the Liver. {Med. Chron., 1895-6.) 

13. A. W. Latham. 

The Changes occurring in Organs in connection with Invasion by 
Secondary Tumours. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1904.) 
Gold Medal. 

14. Reginald Lawrence. 

The Brain and Spinal Chord in Chronic Arsenical Poisoning. 
(Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1902.) Commended. 

15. H. H. MacNabb. 

Bacteriology of Serpent Ulcers of the Cornea. (Dissertation for the 
M.D. Degree, 1902.) 

16. R. W. Marsdbn. 

The Joint Affections in Scarlatina. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 
1896.) 

17. F. Craven Moore. 

Scrofulous Lymphadenitis. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree.) 
Gold Medal, 1898. {Journ. of Path, and Bact., 1899.) 

18. J. C. Mum. 

Blood and Bone-marrow Lesions in Arsenical Poisoning. (Disserta- 
tion for the M.D. Degree, Cambridge, 1901. Journ. of Path, and 
Bact., 1901.) 

19. W A. Newall. 

The Serum Treatment and Sero-diagnosis of Typhoid Fever. (Dis- 
sertation for the M.D. Degree, 1900.) 

20. Harry Osborne. 

Suppuration in Children. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1902.) 
Commended. 

21. Knowles Renshaw. 

Nasal Tuberculosis. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, Cambridge, 
1899. Journ. of Path, and Bact., 1901.) 

22. Frank Radcliffe. 

Spread of Tuberculosis in Guinea-pigs. (Dissertation for the M.D. 
Degree, 1897.) 

23. Thomas Andrew Rothwell. 

Aspergillosis. (Dissertation for the M.D. Degree, 1899. Commended. 

24. H. W. Russell. 

The Relative Time of Infection of the Lungs and Bronchial Glands in 
Guinea-pigs inoculated with Tubercidous material. (Dis.sertation 
for the M.D. Degree, 1905.) Gold Medal. 



422 REPOET 

25 J. SiMCOCK. 

Chronic Wasting of Children due to Iiwproper Feeding. (Dissertation 
for the M.D. Degree, 1893.) 

26 Francis Villt. 

The Bone Marrow of Cancer Patients. (Dissertation for the M.D. 
Degree, Cambridge. Journ. of Path, and Bad., 1896.) 

5.— OTHER PUBLICATIONS. 

27 William Milligan, M.D., CM. 

Tuberculous Disease of the Mucous Membrane of the Middle Ear and 
its Adnexa ; on Experimental Investigations. (Brit. Med. 
Journal, 1895.) 

Tuberculous Disease of the Middle Ear. (Med. Chron., 1895-6.) 

28 Thomas Harris, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

On some cases of Chronic N on-tuherctdous Pneumonia a,nd the Clinical 
value of inoculation experiments of Guinea-pigs in the diagnosis 
of Pulmonary Tuberculosis. (Brit. Med. Journal, 1896.) 

29 Arnold W. Lea., M.D., B.S., F.R.C.S. 

Two cases of Puevperal Septiccemia due to Streptococcic Infection. 
{Brit. Med. Journal, 1899). 

30 F. Craven Moore, M.D., M.Sc. 

Hepatic Tuberculosis. (Med. Chron., 1899.) 

Pathological Aspects of Acute Pancreatitis. (Med. Chron., 1899.) 

31 Francis Villt, M.D. 

An uncommon form of Tumour of the Thyroid Body. (Journ. of 
Path, and Bact., 1896.) 

32 F. J. H. CouTTS, M.D., and A. Sellers, M.D. 

Pseudo-Tubercle Bacilli in Milk. (Public Health, 1901.) 

33 J. R. Carver, M.D„ D.P.H. 

The Characters of Teasts occurring in Tanning Material, etc, 
(Archives of the Public Health Laboratory. Vol. I.) 

34 E. J, Sidebotham, M.A., M.B., and Arthur Sellers, M.D., D.P.H. 

On an Epidemic of Fish Poisoning. (Archives of the Public Health 
Laboratory. Vol. I.) 

35 G. J. Fowler, D.Sc, F.I.C. 

The Application of Chemical Analysis to the Study of Biological 
Processes of Sewage Purification. (Archives of the Public 
Health Laboratory. Vol. I.) 

36 W. B. Ramsden, B.Sc, M.B., Ch.B. 

Two Aldehyde Reactions. (Memoirs and Proceedings of the Manchester 
Literary and Philosophical Society. Vol. 49, 1905.) (Archives of 
the Public Health Laboratory. Vol. I.) 

37 Reginald Lawrence, M.D., D.P.H. 

Changes occurring in the Central Nervous System of patients 
affected with Malignant Tumours. (Archives of the Public Health 
Laboratory. Vol. I.) 



REPORT 423 

38 S. Dblepine and P. R. Cooper, M.B., Ch.B., B.Sc, F.R.C.S. 

A few facts concerning Psorospermosis. (Brit. Med. Journal, 1893.) 

39 Sir T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.C.P., LL.D., F.R.S., and S. 

Dblepinb. 
Report upon some of the Changes produced on Liver Cells by the 
Action of some Organic and Inorganic Compounds. (Proc. Royal 
Society, 55, 1894.) 

40 S. Dblepine and Arthur Ransome, M.D., F.R.S. 

A Report on the Disinfection of T uhercle-infected Houses. {Brit. 
Med. Journal, 1893—95.) 

41 S. Dblepine and Arthur Ransome, M.D., F.R.S. 

On the Influence of certain Natural Agents on the Virulence of the 
Tubercle Bacillus. (Proc. Royal Society, 56, 1894.) 

42 S. Delepine and J. Richmond, M.A., M.B., M.R.C.S. 

Variability of the "Comma Bacillus" and the Bacteriological Diag- 
nosis of Cholera. {Journ. of Path, and Bact., 1895.) 

43 S. Delepine and E. J. Sidebotham, M.A., M.B. 

On the Sero-Diagnosis of Typhoid Fever. (La?icet, 1896.) 

44 J. Dixon Mann, M.D., F.R.C.P., and S. Dblepine. 
A case of Tumour of the Pons. (Brain, 1898.) 

45 C. H. Tattersall, M.R.C.S., and S. Delepine. 

Special Report on an Epidemic of Arsenical Poisoning from Beer, 
in 1900. (Salford, 1901.) 

46 S. Delepine and J. H. Johnston, M.Sc. 

The influence of Bacterial Multiplication, of Dilution, of Sedimenta- 
tion, and of other factors on the Natural Purification of Running 
Water. (Journl. of State Medicine, 1901.) 

47 W. J. HowARTH, M.D., and S. Delepine. 

Report on the Outbreak of Food Poisoning at Derby. (Derby, 1902.) 

48 S. Dblepine and Colin Campbell, M.R.C.S. 

Treatment of Phthisis by Intratracheal Injections of Izal. (Trans. 
Brit. Congress on Tuberculosis, 1901.) 

49 S. Delepine. 

Psorospermosis as a possible cause of EjMhelial Tumours. 
(Trans. 7th Congress of Hygiene, London, 1892.) 

50 „ Protozoa and Carcinoma. {Brit. Med. Journ., 1892.) 

51 „ T uherculous Infection through the Alimentary Canal. Address 

to the Medico-Ethical Society, Manchester, 1892. {^led. 
Chron., 1895.) 

52 „ On the value of Experimental Tuberculosis in Diagnosis. 

{Brit. Med. Journ., 1893.) 

53 „ On the Value of Bacteriological Diagnosis oiAsiatic Cholera 

{Brit. Med. Journ., 1894.) 



424 REPORT 

S. Delepinb. 

54 „ Spread of Tuberculosis through Lymphatics. (Brit. Med. 

Journ., 1894 ; Med. Chron., 1894.) 

55 „ On the disinfection o/ rooms infected with Tuberculous Products. 

(Med. Chron., 1894.) 

56 „ Prevalence of Tuberculosis in the Domesticated Amm&ls.{Med. 

Chron., 1895.) 

57 „ Report on the Disinfecting and Antiseptic Properties of Izal. 

{Med. Chron., 1895.) 

58 „ Bacteriological Diagnosis of Diphtheria. (Med. Chron., 1895.) 

59 „ Anti-diphtheritic Serum, with remarks upon Artificial Im- 

munity. (Med. Chron., 1895.) 

60 „ Staining of Tubercle Bacilli in Sections. (Med. Chron., 1896.) 

61 „ Desirability of Legislation in connection with Tuberculosis of 

Living Domesticated Animals, and more specially of Cattle. 
(Journ. of State Medicine, 1896.) 

62 „ Therapeutic Use of Rontgen's Rays (actions on Bacteria). 

(Brit. Med. Journ., 1896.) 

63 „ Sero-Dia'gnostic of Typhoid Fever. (Med. Chron., 1896.) 

64 „ On the value of different Bacteriological Methods of Diagnosis 

of Typhoid Fever. (Brit. Med. Journ., 1896-97.) 

65 „ The Technique of Serum Diagnosis, with special reference to 

Typhoid Fever. (Brit. Med. Joui-n., 1897.) 

66 „ The detection of Pathogenic Properties of Milk. (Journ. of 

Comp. Path., 1897.) 

67 „ Some Experiments on Sterilization by Steam. (Journ. of State 

Medicine, 1897.) 

68 ., The Bacteriological Diagnosis of certain Infectious Diseases in 

connection with Public Health work. (Lancet, 1898.) 

69 „ Some of the Ways in which Milk becomes Pathogenic. (Brit. 

Med. Journ., 1898.) 

70 „ Disinfection. (Journ. of Sanitary Institute, 1898.) 

71 ,, Bacteriological Survey of Sxvrface Water Supplies. (Journ. of 

State Medicine, 1898.) 

72 „ Tuberculosis and the Milk Supply, with some general remarks 

on the Dangers of Bad Milk. (Lancet, 1898.) 

73 „ Some Experiments on the Disinfection of Rooms by Gaseous 

Formaldehyde. (Journ. of State Medicine, 1898.) 

74 „ Note on a method used for separating the Bacillus Typhosus 

from Contaminated Soil. (Public Health, 1898.) 

75 „ Effects of Pollution of Water Supplies. (Med. Chron., 1899.) 

76 „ Article on Actinomycosis. (Encyclopcedia Medica; William 

Green and Sons, 1899.) 



REPORT 425 

g. Delepine. 

77 „ Some Remarks on the Effects of the Pollution of Water Supplies 

{Med. Chron., 1899.) 

78 „ The Prevention of Tuberculosis. (Public Health, 1899.) 

79 „ Prevention of Tuberculosis in Cattle ; some Economic Aspects 

of the Question (2 papers). (The Veterinarian, 1899.) 

80 „ Experiments on Disinfection by Rapid Currents of Saturated 

Steam (2 parts). (Journ. of State Medicine, 1900.) 

81 „ Bacteriological Diagnosis of Disease. (Lancet, 1900.) 

82 „ The Application of the Tuberculin Test to the Diagnosis of 

Tuberculosis in Cattle. (Brit. Med. Journ., 1900.) 

83 „ Some practical notes on the Diagnosis of Human Plague. 

(Brit. Med. Journ., 1900.) 

84 „ The Detection of Arsenic in Beer and Brewing Materials. (Brit. 

Med. Jourti., 1901.) 

85 „ How can the Tuberculin Test be utilised for stamping out 

Bovine Tuberculosis. (Lancet, 1901.) 

86 „ Communicability of Human T'uberculosis to Cattle. (Brit. 

Med. Journ., 1901.) 

87 5, Report on Beer, Brewing, and other Materials. Salford. (1900 

and 1901.) 

88 „ Splenic Fever. (Encyclopcedia Medica, XI. ; Green and Sons, 

1902.) 

89 „ Concretions. (Quain^s Diet., 1902.) 

90 „ Arsenic in Modern Life. Address to the Sanitary Congress, 

1902. 

91 „ The Bearing of Outbreaks of Food Poisoning upon the Etiology 

of Epidemic Diarrhoea (Epidemiological Society). (Journal 
of Hygiene III. pp. 68—94.) 

92 „ Report upon an alleged Effluvium Nuisance attributed to the 

use of yeast in a Tannery, and upon an Outbreak of 
Diphtheria. (Report to the Runcorn Rural District Coun- 
cil, 1903.) 

93 „ Civilisation and Health Dangers in Food. (Jjecture at the 

Royal Institution of Great Britain, 1903.) 

94 „ Protection of Upland Gatliering Grounds and Filtration com- 

pared. (Association of British Waterworks' Engineers, 
Bolton, 1903.) 

95 „ Memorandum on Anthrax, presented to the Diseases of Animals 

Acts Committee of the County Council of Cheshire, 1904. 

96 „ Report on Samples of Water, Soils, and Mud collected from the 

Estuary of the River Lune. (Public Health Committee of 
the County Council of Lancashire, 1904.) 

97 „ The Causes of the increase of Agricultural Anthrax in Great 

Britain. (Public Health, 1905.) 

And various other Reports to Public Authorities, some of which are in 

course of publication. 



426 REPORT 



APPENDIX III. 

List of Graduates and Undergraduates who have taken Public Health 
or post graduate courses, or have worked in the Bacteriological 
Laboratory from 1892 to 1905. 

(Public Health and other appointments in a Public Service held in 1905 are indicated 
in blach type. V= Veterinary courses. P.G. =Post graduate courses). 

* Indicates that particulars could not be obtained from official sources in 1905. The names of those who were 

deceased in 1905 are in italics. 



Years of 
attendance. 

1903, 1904, ADAMS, JOSEPH, 1, Bewsey Road, Warrington, m.b., cm. edin. M.O.H. 
Runcorn R.D.C. 

1905 V. ADAMSON, JOHN, 89, Bradshawgate, Bolton, m.r.c.v.s. 

1904 P.G. AINSCOW, JAMES, 224, Manchester Road, Ince, Wigan, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

LOND. 

1895 AINSWORTH, HUGH, Capt. I.M.S. Bengal, late Asst. Medical Officer 

Monsall Fever Hospital, m.b. vict., m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 
1895 ALDRIDGE, A. H., Heatlierlea, Torphins, Aberdeenshire, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

LOND. 

1898 ALLAN, C. McA., Island House, Longton, Staffs., m.a. abbr., m.u., ch.m. 

EDIN. 

1896-7 ALLKIN, F. W., 136, Ashton Road, Denton, Manchester, m.b., cm. edin. 

M.O.H. Denton and Audenshaw. 
1891-2 ANDERSON, A. J., Health Office, City Hall, Cape Town, South Africa, 

M.B. oxoN., D.p.H. CAMB. M.O.H. Cape Town, late M.O.H. Blackpool. 
1891-2 *ANDERSON, HENRY, m.a., m.d., r.u.i., 9, Beswick Street, Ancoats, 

Manchester. 

1902 ANDERTON, W. B., Elsinore, Raynham Avenue, Didsbury, Manchester, 

M.B. LOND. Demonstrator of Morbid Anatomy, Vict. Univ., 
Pathological Registrar Royal Infirmary, Manchester. 
1904 P.G. ANGIOR, F. L., Standishgate House, Wigan, l.s.a. 
1898-9 ARDERN, EDWARD, Urmston, Manchester, m.sc vict. Chemist to 

Manchester Corporation Sewage Works. 
1900 ARNOLD, M. B., " Elrafield," Victoria Road, Whalley Range, Manchester, 

1903 1904 ^^ yicT., D.P.H. CAMB., First Asst. Mcdical Officer Manchester 

Fever Hospital. 
1902-3 ASHCROFT, E. M., Public Health Department, Ford Street, Derby, 
M.B., CH.B., D.P.H. VICT. Assistant to M.O.H. Derby. 



1901—1903 
1893 



REPORT 427 

1896-7 ASHE, C. S., Norchenden Road, Sale, m.b., ch.b., vict 
1895 ASHWORTH, J. H., Fernholm, 385, Cheetham Hill Road, Manchester, 

M.B., CH.B., D.P.H. VICT. 

Tl4^5^' ASHWORTH, J. W., Thorne Bank, Heaton Moor, Stockport, l.r.c.p., 

M.R.C.S. 

ATKINSON, J. R., Mirion House, Crewe, m.b., cm. edin, d.imi. GiiAsa. 
1892 P.G. *BAILEY, ANTHONY, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s., Openshaw, Manchester. 
1900-1,1902 BAILEY, J. G., Hayesleigh, Yelverton, m.b., cm. edin. 

BAXTER, A., 39, Sudell Road, Darwen, m.d. aberd. 

BAYER, H. M., l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., l.f.r.s. glas. 
1904 P.G. BECKITT, J. C, The Lindens, Leigh, Lanes., m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond. 
1900, 1901 BENNETT, JAMES, Lynton Grange, Padgate, near Warrington, m.r.c.s. 

L.R.C.P., D.P.H. LOND. 

1900, 19C2 BENNETT, JOHN, Stockley Place, Chapel Street, Hyde, m.b., b.ch.,r.u.i. 
M.O.H. Hyde. 
1898-9 BENNETT R. A., 16, Diamond Street, Saltburn-by-Sea, Yorks., m.b. lond. 

1904 P.G. BENSON, M., 35, Dicconson Street, Wigan, m.d. brux., m.r.c.s. eng., 

L.R.C.P. lond. 

1905 P.G. BIRD, WILLIAM, Lily Cottage, Briersfield, Lanes., m.b., cm. edin. 

1896-7 BISHOP, E. S., 189, High Street, Manchester, f.r.c.s. eng., l.r.cp. edin. 

1904 P.G. BLAIR, JOHN, Bidston House, Up. Dicconson Street, Wigan, m.d., r.u.i. 

1904 BLANDY, F. D., The Lingards, Anson Road, Victoria Park, Manchester, 

M.D. LOND., M.R.C.S., L.RC.P., D.P.H. VICT. 

1894 BOOTH, GEORGE, Holywell House, Chesterfield, m.d. Durham, m.r.c.s., 

L.R.C.P., Vice-Chairman Health Comm., Cliesterfield. 
1904 P.G. BOYD, J. McA., Drumcroon, Park Road, Wigan, b.a., m.b., b.ch. r.u.i. 
1904 P.G. BRADY, C. M., Sandville, New Market Street, Wigan, l.r.cs.i., l.a.h. dub. 

1894 BRAZIL, W. H., 365, Blackburn Road, Bolton -le-Moors, Lanes., m.d. lond., 

D.P.H. CAMB., B.SC. VICT. 

1897-8 BRIGHTMORE, H. S., Limefield, Broughton Lane, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT. 

BRINDLEY, A. E., The Elms, Walmersley Road, Bury, m.d. lond., b.sc. 

VICT., D.P.H. VICT. M.O.H. Bury, late Asst. in Public Health 

Laboratory, and Deputy M.O.H. Salford. 
BROADBENT, G. H., 8, Ardwick Green, Manchester, l.r.cp.i., l.m., 

M.R.C.S. ENG. 

BROWN, E. v., Surrey Lodge, 2, Birch Lane, Longsight, Manchester, 

M.D. LOND. 
1892 P.G. * BROWN, R. C. 

^^Iv: BROWN, J., 28, Standishgate, Wigan, m.r.c.v.s. 



1894, 1896-7 
1897-8 


1892 P.G. 


1894 P.G. 



428 



REPORT 



1904-5, 1905 

1893^ 
1906 
1808 



1894 



1902 



1904 

1896-7 



1898, 1899 
1901-2 



1894 P.G. 
1897-8, 1900-1 

1905 P.G. 

1905 

1902 

1903-4 P.G. 
1905 P.G. 



1895, 1896, 
1897 



1905 P.G. 

1903-4 P.G. 

1904-5 

1897-8 
1004 P.G. 



1903, 1904 
1895 

1903-4, 1905 P.G 



BUCKLEY, G. G., Norwood, Oldham, m.b., ch.b. vict., d.p.h. vict. 

Assistant M.O.H. Oldham. 
BUCKLEY, J. G., 11, Goldsmith Street, Nottingham, m.d.vict. 
BUCKLEY, S. M., Dental Student, 

BURGESS, A. H„ 23, St. John Street, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. vict., m.sc, 
F.R.c.s. ENG. Asst. Surgeon Royal Infirmary and Christie Hospital, 
Manchester. 

BURNETT, W. E. S., Fairlie, Bowdon, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. bdin. Certify- 
ing Factory Surgeon, M.O.H. Mottram and Hollingwortli U.D.C. 
and Tintwhistle R.D.C. 

BUTCHER, W. J., Southview, Westhoughton, Lanes., m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 
LOND., D.P.H. VICT. Asst. M.O.H. WesthougUtoH. 

BUTLER, WM., Health Office, Stockport, Meat Inspector, Stockport. 

*BUTTERWORTH, H. P., l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., d.p.h. vict. 

BUTTERWORTH, J. J., 13, Moorfield Road, Pendleton, Manchester, 
M.D. VICT., D.P.H. VICT. Asst. M.O.H. Salford, Lecturer on Hygiene 
and Physiology at the Royal Techninal Institute, Salford. 

BUTTERWORTH, SAMUEL, Major R.A.M.C., l.r.c.p. edin., m.r.c.s. eng. 

BYTHELL, W. J. S., Woodcliffe, Prestwich, Manchester, m.d. vict., b.a. 
CAMB. Occasional Assistant in the Public Health Laboratory. 

CALLAM, ALEX., 187, Colne Road, Burnley, m.b., ch.b. ch.b. aberd. 

CALLAN, THOMAS, Massie Street Cheadle (Chemistry Student). 

CALLAND, T. B., m.b., ch.b. glasg. 

CARTER, J. H., Church Street, Burnley, Lanes., f.r.c.v.s., f.r.s.e. 
Voter. Insp. Board of Agric. and Fisheries, and County Palatine 
of Lancashire. 

CARVER, J. R., The Meadows, Alderley Edge, m.d. camb., d.p.h. Senior 
Asst. Public Health Laboratory. 

CHADWICK, JOSHUA, 123, Oxford Road, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., 
l.f.p.s. glas. 

CHADWICK, HITCHON, 43, Oxford Road, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., 

L.F.P.S. GLAS. 

CHAPMAN, 0. H., Ferncliffe, St. Catherine's, Lincoln, m.d., cm. edin. 

D.P.H. VICT. 

CHORLTON, H. D., 97a, Oxford Road, Manchester, m.r.c.v.s. lond. 
CHRONNELL, JAMES, Ash Cottage, Hindley, Lanes., m.r.c.s. eng., 

L.R.c.p.i. 3I.0.H. Hindley U.D.C, Medical Superintendent Hindley 

Fever Hospital. 

CLARKE, A. C, Roman Place, Higher Broughton, Manchester, m.d. vict. 

CLEGG, J. G., 22, St. John Street, Manche.ster, m.d. lond., f.r.c.s. eng., 

L.R.C.P. LOND., late Asst. Demonstrator of Pathology, Owens College. 
CLEGG, J. W., Rosegrove, Burnley, l.s.a. 



REPORT 429 

1899,1900 CLEMENTS, J. A., Lytham House, Farnley, Leeds, m.b., b.ch., u.u.i., 

L.R.C.D.B., L.n.C.P.B. EDIN. 

1905 CLEMENTS, R. W., Captain K.A.M.C., Upper Chorlton Road, Manchester. 

B.A., M.B., CH.B. 

1903 CLEMESHA, W. W., Captain I.M.S. Bengal, m.d. vict., d.p.h. vict., 
Deputy Sanitary Commissioner ^'orthern Bengal Circle. 

1897-8, 1899, COATES, HAROLD, Hornsey Municipal Office, Southwood Lane, Highgate, 
London, N., m.d. vict., d.p.h. vict. M.O.H. Hornsey, Med. Super. 
Hornsey Isol. Hospital, and Med. Officer Hornsey Education Auth., 
late M.O.H. Burton-upon-Trent, and Senior Asst. M.O.H., Man- 
chester. 

1894 COLLINSON, F. W., 32, Wickley Square, Preston, m.d. edin., f.r.c.s. edin. 

1897 COOKE, J. A., Tue Brook Villa, Green Lane, Liverpool, M.ii.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

lond., d.p.h. edin. and glasg. 

1902-3 COOPER, E. R., Thornecombe, St. Annes Road, St. Annes-on-Sea, m.b., 

CH.B. VICT. 

1896 COOPER, H. C, Foye, Manchester Road, Altrincham, m.a., m.b., b.c. camb. 
1893, 1894, COOPER, P. R., Glenthorn, Tlie Downs, Bowdon, m.d. lond., f.r.c.s. bng., 

M.B. CH.B. VICT., b.sc. (honours) LOND. Late Asst. Demonstrator 
in Pathology Owens College. 

1901-5 CORE, DONALD, Groombridge House, Withington. 
1891-2,1899 COUTTS, F. J. H., Public Health Office, Blackpool, m.d. vict., d.p.h. vict. 
^^^ p.c.s. Bl.O.H. Blackpool, Med. Super. Inf. Dis. Hospital, Blackpool, 

late Asst. in Pub. Health Lah., Owens College, Deputy M.O.H. 
Salford. 
W3 COWAP, J. C. (Chemical Student). 
1897-8 COWIE, JOHN, M.B. Aber. Died May 5th, 1902. 

1894 CRAWFORD, J. H., 46, Ash Grove, Bradford, Yorks., m.d. edin., m.r.c.s., 

l.r.c.p., d.p.h. vict. 

1904, 1904 CRAWSHAW, C. W., Barwood Mount, Ramsbottom, m.b., ch.b. vict., 

D.P.H. VICT. 

1892 P.G., 1899 CRAWSHAW, SAMUEL, Trafalgar Square, Ashton-under-Lyne, m.b., ch.b, 
VICT., m.r.c.s. eng. 
1892,1894 CROCKER, J. H., Petersham, Richmond, Surrey, m.d. vict., d.p.h. vict. 
M.O.H. Richmond, London, late M.O.H. Manchester Port Sanitary, 
and Eccles. 

1904-5 CROMPTON H. J., County Asylum, Prestwich, m.d. vict. 
1903-4 P.O. CRUMP, T. G., 66, Bank Parade, Burnley, b.a. camb., m.b., b.c, m.r.c.s., 
l.r.c.p. 

1897 CUNLIFFE, T. V., 76, Greengate Street, Oldham, m.d. lond., m.r.c.s, eng,, 

L.R.C.P, LOND. 

1890 *DAINE, H S,, 9, Spring Bank, Preston, Lecturer at the Harris Institute, 
Preston. 



430 REPORT 

1896-7 DAVIES, W. E., M.B., Ch.B. Vict., D.P.H. Vict. Died 1902. 
1894 *DICK. JOHN. 

1905 p.G. DIXON, H. A., 141, Oxford Road, Burnley, M.R.c.s. LOND. 

1899 DIXON, J. L. B., Bulli, New South Wales, m.d. vict., d.p.h. vict., late Asst. 
M.O. Brisbane. 
1896, 1897, DOCKRAY, J. S., 4, High Street, Bishop's Stortford, m.d. vict., b.sc. lond. 

VICT. 

1893 DOWZER, J. J. M., Fern Acre, Eccles, l.r.c.p.i., l.r.c.s.i., l.m., d.p.h. 

VICT., M.R.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

1898, 1899 DREAPER, R. H., Wells, King's Co., New Brunswick, Canada, l.r.c.p.i., 

L.R.C.S.I., L.M., D.P.H. 

1892 DREAPER, W\ G., Park Villa, Grosmont, Yorks., m.r.c.s. eng., l.r.c.p. 

LOND., D.P.H. VICT. Certifying Factory Surgeon. 

1894 *DRUCE, E., Teacher in Agricultural School, Preston. 

1903-4 P.G. DUN, H. W., 125, Netherfield Road, Nelson, m.b., cm. edin. • 

1898^899, *DUNCAN, A. W., 42, Trevelyan Street, Eccles, F.c.s. Public Analyst. 

1892 P.G. DUNN, J. E., 25a, Winckley Square, Preston, l.r.c.p. edin. m.r.c.s. eng. 

1896 DYSON, WILLIAM, Alison House, Broseley, Salop, m.b., ch.b. vict. 

1892 P.G. EDLIN, H. E., Middlemoie House, Stockport Road, Levenshulme, m.r.c.s. 

ENG., L.R.C.P. LOND. M.O.H. Leveushulme. 
1903-4 p.G. EDMONDSON, HERBERT, Fernhill, Burnley, b.a., m.b., b.c. camb. 

1892 p.G. EDWARDS, JOHN, 171, Cheetham Hill Road, Manchester, m.r.c.s. eng., 
L.R.C.P. EDIN. Prin. 31.0., H.M. Prison, Manchester. 

1897^898. EDWARDS, N. F., Broseley, Salop, m.b., ch.b. vict. 

1894 *EDWARDS, WILLIAM, Agricultural School, Preston. 
1897-8 *ENTWISTLE, A. L., Analytical Chemist. 

1905 P.G. FALCONER, ALEX., Tyrconnel House, Earby, nr. Colne, m.b., cm. aberd. 

1905 V. FAULKNER, EDWIN, 6, Penrhyn Terrace, Stretford Road, Old Trafford, 
M.R.cv.s. Voter. Insp. Stretford, late Veter. Insp. of Meat, etc., 
Manchester, Veter. Insp. to Board of Agric. and Fisheries and Moss 
Side Urban District. 

1896-7 FENN, R. M., 147, Cheetham Hill Road, Manchester, m.b., cm. edin. 

1895 *FERGUSON, HOWARD. 

i903^*pP^G. FERGUSON, J. M., 72, Colne Road, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., d.p.h. 

DURHAM. 

1905 P.G. FINDLAY, ANDREW, 20, Carr Road, Nelson, m.b., cm. glasg. 

1898-9 FINNEY, A. E., Barwood, Wilmslow, m.d. vict., late Demonstrator In 
Pathology, Owens College, Hon. Asst. Pathologist Cancer Hospital, 

Manchester. 

1893-4 FLETCHER, J. H., Bedford House, Ince, nr. Wigan, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond. 



REPORT 431 

1903 FORBES, DUNCAN, M.O.H. Cambridge, m.d. eoin., b.sc. (public health) 
EDiN., D.p.H. CAMB. late Asst. M.O.H. and Deputy Port M.O. Leith,' 
Asst. M.O.H. Manchester. 

1903 FOSTER, B. LbN., c/o Messrs, F. C. Calvert & Co., Bradford, Manchester, 

B.A. CAMB. 

1895-6 FOWLER, G. J., Broad Oak, Urmston, Manchester, d.sc. vict., f.i.c. 
Lecturer in Bacteriological Chemistry and Senior Cheni. Asst. 
Public Health Laboratory, Consulting Chemist to Manchester 
Se>vage Works. 

1892 *FRASER, W. M., m.b., cm., d.p.h. vict. 

1895, 1903-4 p.G, GARDNER, JAMES, Thorn Hill, Burnley, m.b., cm. glas., late M.O.H. 

1905 P.G. T> X ^ j^ y 

Royton. 
1900 GARNER, CHAS., Watford Villa, Irlam Road, Flixton, m.d. vict. 

1904 GARNETT, J. H., Springfield, Ramsbottom, b.sc vict., Chemical Student. 

1894 GARRETT, P. G., Earl Shilton, nr. Hinckley, m.b., b.s. Durham, d.p.h. vict. 

1896, 1897 GARSTANG, T. W. H., Edge Mount, Altrincham, m.a. oxon., m.r.cs. eng. 
L.S.A., D.P.H. VICT. M.O.H. Biddulph, Knutsford, Middlewich, 
Winsford U.D.C. and Bucklow R.D.C. late M.O.H. Northwich R.D.C. 

1894 GARTH, JOHN, 1, Avenue Terrace, Preston, l.r.c.p.i., l.m. M.O.H. 

Fulwood. 
1900-1 GAULT, A. H., 8, North Terrace, Adelaide, South Australia, m.d. lond. 
M.O.H. Mitcham. 
1899, 1900 * QiLL, J. A., Analytical Cliemist. 

1905 p.G. GLASHAN, a. C, 114, Westgate, Burnley, m.b., ch.b. aber. 
1896, 1897 GODSON, J. H., Linden House, Cheadle, m.b., b.c camb., d.p.h. camb. 
M.O.H. Cheadle and Gatley- 
1903-4 GOLDSMITH, B.K., Asst. to M.O.H. Manchester, late Asst. Medical Officer 
Fever Hospital, Monsall, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. edin., d.p.h. vict. 

1894 *GORDON, JAMES. 

1903 GORDON, REGINALD, Everest House, Great Crosby, Lanes., m.b., ch.b. 

VICT. 

1892 P.G. GOULDEN, J. H. 0., 8, Greek Street, Stockport, l.f.p.s. glas., l.m. 

1892 P.G. GOWLAND, G. R., 118, Wilmslow Road, Rusholme, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. bdin. 

Late M.O.H. Warsop. 
1904 P.G. GRAHAM, C. R., Netherby House, Wigan, m.r.cs. eng., l.r.c.p. bdin. 

GRAY, W. C, St. John's Lodge, Blackburn, m.b., ch.b. aber. Lieut. 

Indian Medical Service. 
GHEENHALGH, ARTHUR, 1, Brunswick Terrace, Blackburn Road, 
Accrington, m.b., ch.b., d.p.h. vict. M.O.H. .Vccrington. Superin- 
tendent Smallpox Hospital. 
GREENHALGH, HANDEL, 155, Rochdale Road, Bury, l.f.p.s. glas., l.m. 



1904 



1893 



43^ UEPORT 

1895 1896 GREENWOOD, ALFRED, Health Office, 51, Ainsworth Street, Blackburn, 

1899; i9oo' M.D.VICT., D.p.H. M.O.H. Blackbum, M.O. Educ. Auth., Lecturer 

on School Hyg., Technical School, Blackburn, late Asst. Public 

Health Laboratory, late Asst. M.O.H. Stockport and M.O.H. Crewe. 

1898-9 GREGORY, THOS., 6, Bury Old Road, Cheetham Hill, Manchester, m.r.c.s., 

L.R.C.P. LOND. 

1903-4 P.G. *GRIFFIN, S. M., Bank Parade, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. bdin. 

1905 P.G. - , . , X 1 . 

1900 GRUNER, 0. C, Director of the Yorkshire Pathological Laboratory, 

Honorary Pathologist Leeds Public Dispensary, Leeds, m.b. lond. 
1897-8 HALL, J. P., 7, Eaton Road, West Derby, Liverpool, m.b., b.s. lond., m.b.. 

CH.B. VICT., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. 

ieo2.3 HALL, L WALKER, Pathologist to the Bristol Royal Infirmary, Pro- 
fessor of Pathology, University College, Bristol, late Asst. Lecturer in 
Pathology Victoria University. 
1892,1895 HAMILTON, D. L., Frohenlog, Dolgelly, North Wales, l.r.c.p. bdin., f.r.c.s. 

BDIN. 

1900 HAMILTON, W. M., Pendleton Lodge, Patricroft, m.d., m.ch., d.p.h. dublin. 

M.O.H. Eccles. J.P. 
1896-7 HARING, N. C, 112, Wilmslow Road, Rusholme, m.b. lond., b.sc. vict. 
1895-6 HARRIS, THOMAS, 325, Oxford Street, Manchester, m.d. lond., f.r.c.p. 

LOND., M.R.C.S. ENG. 

1896-7 *HARRISON, — , County Council Farm, Preston. 
1902-3 HARWOOD, H. M., London, m.b., b.c. camb. 

1899 HA WORTH, F. G., Vale House, Darwen, m.b., cm. glas., d.p.h. camb. 

M.O.H. Darwen, Med. Supt. Inf. Dis. Hospital, M.O. Educ. Auth. 
Darwen. 
1904-5 HAWORTH, H. D., 166, Scotland Road, Nelson, m.b., ch.b. vict. 
1905 HEALD, 0. W., Dental Student. 

1905 HEAP, HARRI, 3, Thursby Square, Burnley, Chemical Student. 

1904 P.G. HEYES, J. P., 1, Bridgewater Terrace, Wigan, f.r.c.v.s. 

1902-3 HEYWOOD, C. C, Earnscliffe, Alderley Edge, m.a., m.b., b.c. camb., late 
Lecturer on Physiol, and Hyg., Salford Royal Tech. Inst. 

1899 HEYWOOD, T. W., Lower Bank, Darwen, l.r.c.p.i., m.r.c.s. bng., d.p.h. 

J.P. Certifying Factory Snrgeon. 

1899, 1900, HILL, E. F., 1, High Street, C.-on-M., Manchester, m.b., ch.b. vict., 
^^^ M.R.C.S., l.r.c.p. 

1905 HINSON, H., Dental Student. 

1903-4 P.G. HODGES, A. E., 11, Yorkshire Street, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. bdin. 
^^MbVa' HODGSON, JOHN, 20, Gannow Lane, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. bdin. 
i89g.7 HOLBURN,, ALFRED, City Abattoirs, Water Street, Manchester, m.r.c.v.s. 
1903 Chief Veterinary Inspector, Manchester, Examiner and Meat 

Insp. Hoy. San. Inst., Lond., Lect, Meat Insp, Tech. Schools, 
Manchester. 



REPORT 433 

1900-1 HOLMES, W. S., 31, Wellington Street, Bradford, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT. 

1903,1904 HOLT, HENRY, 98, Wellington l?oad, Heaton Chapel, m.b., ch.b. vict., 

D.p.H. LOND. Deputy to M.O.II. Stockport. 
1898, 1899 HOLT, J. J. H., The Lodge, Middleton, m.b., ch.b. vict., d.p.h. Dublin. 
1897 HOLT, R. C, 60, Bank Parade, Burnley, m.d. duiui., f.r.c.s. edin., m.r.c.p., 

L.R.C.P. 

.on.^!l%n HOLT, THOMAS, 36, Colno Road, Burnley, m.b., cm. aberu., d.p.h. glasg. 
1903-4-5 P.O. M.O.H. Burnley. 

1905 HOPKINSON, S. M., Dental Student. 

1896-7 HORROCKS, OSWALD, Nagda Muttra State RIy., Sewai, Madhopun, 

Rajputana. p.n.c.s. edin., l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin. 
1898-9 *HORSFALL, J., 4, Grange Avenue, Rawtenstall, v.c.a. Consulting 

Chemist, Chem. Master Tech. Even. Schools, Rawtenstall. 
1905 HOUGHTON, E., Dental Student. 
]903, 1904 HOWARD, JAMES, Royal Infirmary, Manchester, l.r.c.p., m.r.c.s. eng. 
1896 HOWARTH, W. J., Public Health Office, Ford Street, Derby, m.d. vict., 

D.P.H. vict. M.O.H. Derby, Med. Supt. Isol. Hospital, M.O. Educ. 

Auth., late M.O.H. Bury. 

1900 HOWLES, FRED, 38, Glenhue Road, Blackheath, London, m.sc. vict. 
1903-4 P.O. HOYLE, JOHN, Adlington House, Brierfield, nr. Burnley, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

LOND. 

1894-5 HUGHES, R. T., Dial House, Church Road, Birkenhead, m.r.c.s., l.rc.p. 

LOND. 
1899, 1900 *HULME, J. v., M.D. EDIN. 

1892 P.O. HUSBAND, W. E., 14, Lansdowne Place, Bath, l.r.c.p., m.r.c.s. 

^^i9(T^' HUTCHINSON, J. R., Eye and Ear Infirmary, Liverpool, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT., D.P.H. VICT. 

1899, ]900 *HYDE, ELLIS, Analytical Chemist. 
1895-6, 1897-8 INGRAM, J. W., Stockport Road, Ardwick, Manchester, m.r.c.v.s. 

1892 IRVING, L. A., Lieut.-Colonel A.M.S. (retired), m.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. Ireland, 

D.P.H. VICT. 

1904 p.g. JACKSON, JAMES, Florence House, Standishgate, Wigaii, m.b., b.ch. 

DUBLIN. 

1901 JACKSON, W. F., 46, Wycliffe Street, Ardwick, m.b., ch.b. vict. 

1903 JENNINGS, J. W., D.S.O., Major R.A.M.C, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. Ireland. 
1895,1896 JOHNSON, J. M., 31, Ball Haye Street, Leek, Staffs., m.d. vict. 3I.0.H. 

Leek U.D.C., Factory Surgeon. 
1903-4 JOHNSTON, D. J. G., Lunatic Asylum, Isle of Man, m.b., ch.b. aberd., 

d.p.h. aberd. 
1897-8 JOHNSTON, J. H., Public Office, Hampton Middlesex-, M.sc, K.LC, Chemist 

and Bacteriologist Hampton U.D.C., late Asst. Chem. and Bact. to 

Worcestershire C.C. 



434 REPORT 

1905 JONES, A. J., Dental Student. 

1899 JONES, B. E., The Apiary, Freckleton, nr, Preston, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin. 
1894 JONES, HERBERT, Hereford, l.r.c.s.i., l.m., d.p.h. camb. M.O.H, 

Hereford combined District and Bromyard U.D. , Med. Sunt. 
Hereford Isol. Hospital, Hon. Bact. Herefordshire Gen. Hospital, 
Certifying Factory Surgeon, late M.O.H. Rhondda U.D. and 
Crewe. 
1904 P.G. JONES, JOSEPH, Howarth Cross, Leigh, m.b., ch.b. vict., Lect. Hyg. 
Leigh Municipal Tech. School. 

1891-2 P.G. JONES, J. W., 154, Chorlton Road, Manchester, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin. 

1894 KEITH, NEIL, 468, Gallowgate, Glasgow, m.b., cm. glas. 

1897-8 KELSALL, ROBERT, Lieut. I.M.S., m.b., ch.b. vict. 

1892 KELYNACK, T. N., 120, Harley Street, London, m.d. vict. Late Asst. 
Lecturer in Pathology Vict. University. 

1904-5 KERR, HAROLD, Infectious Fever Hospital, Bury, m.b., ch.b. edin., 
D.P.H. camb. Asst. and Deputy M.O.H. Bury. Res. M.O. Bury and 
Dist. Joint Inf. Hospital. 

^^^'\fm ^^^' KERR, W. J., 1, Vicar's Drive, Rochdale, m.d. vict. 
1903 *KLEIN, C. A., Chemical Student. 

1900 *KNOWLES, F., 17, Edon Place, Patricroft, Manchester, Analytical Chemist. 
1901, 1902 *KNOWLES, Miss, County Council Farm, Hulton, Preston. 

1903 LANCASHIRE, G. H., Winter Buildings, St. Ann Street, Manchester, 

M.D. BRUX., M.R.C.S., l.r.c.p. LOND. 

1897-8 LANE, A. H., Captain Army Veterinary Department, m.r.c.v.s. 

1902-3 LATHAM, A. W., Thorn Bank, Haydock, m.d. vict. Late University 
Fellow. 

1904 P.G. LATHAM, WILLIAM, Elmfield, Ashton-in-Makerfield, m.r.c.s. eng., 

L.R. C.P.I. 

1900, 1901 LATHAM, WALTER, Laurel Grange, Earlstown, Newton-le-Willo-ws, 

L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. EDIN., D.P.H. VICT. 

1901-1904 LAWRENCE, REGINALD, 76, Wheelock Street, Middlewich, m.d. vict., 

D.P.H. VICT. Pathologist Christie Hospital, Manchester. 
1898, 1899 LAWRIE, HUGH, 42, Bolton Street, Ramsbottom, m.b., cm. glas., d.p.h. 

VICT. 

1895-6, 1897 LEA, A. W. W., 246, Oxford Road, Manchester, m.d. lond., b.sc vict. 

F.R.C.S. ENG. 

1892 LEAKE, G. D. N., Colonel R.A.M.C., m.r.c.s. eng., l.r.c.p. lond., d.p.h, 

camb. 
1899 LEE, JAMES, 28 Franchise Street, Rochdale, Meat Inspector Rochdale, 

late San. Insp. Rochdale. 
1903, 1904 LEECH, E. B., Oak Mount, Timperley, m.a., m.b., b.c cantab., d.p.h. vict., 

M.R.cp. LOND. Director of Clin. Path. Laboratory, Koyai Infirmary, 

Manchester. 



REPORT 435 

1893-4 LEECH, PRIESTLEY, King Cross, Halifax, Yorks., m.d. lond., f.r.c.s. 

ENG. 

1898 LIGAT, DAVID, 549, Commercial Road, London, E., m.b., cm. glas., d.p.h. 

VICT. 

1897-s LIGHTOLLER, H. M., Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, m.u. durham. 

1905 LISSAMAN, THOMAS, Mornington House, Bolton, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond. 

1904 P.G. LITHERLAND, HENRY, 376, Spring Bank, Pemberton, Wigan, l.s.a. 

1894 LITTLER, R. M., 29, Hawkshead Street, Southport, f.r.c.s. eng., l.r.c.p. 

LOND., B.sc. VICT., D.P.H. VICT. Certifying Factory Surgeon. 

1906 V. LLOYD, J. S., Health Office, Town Hall, Sheffield, f.r.c.v.s., d.v.s.m. vict 
Chief Veterinary Inspector Sheffield. Late Veter. Insp. Manchester, 
and Burnley. 

1898-9 v LOCKE, G. H., 98, Grosvenor Street, C.-on-M., Manchester, m.r.c.v.s. 

1905 *LOCKETT, W. S., Chemical Student. 

1903 *LONDON, JAMES C, Trinidad. 

1897-8 McCANiV, MICHAEL, Percy House, Percy Circus, London, W.C, m.b., b.ch. 

IRELAND. 

1897-8 McGLYNN, JOHN, 127, Radnor Street, Hulme, Manchester, m.d. Dublin. 
1897-8 McGRATH, JOSEPH, 276, Walworth Road, London, S.E., m.b., b.ch. 

IRELAND. 

1902 McINTYRE, DANIEL, L.R.C.P., L.R.G.S. Died November, 1902. 

1900 McLEAN, R. R., Beaufort House, Harpurhey, Manchester, m.b., b.ch. 

IRELAND. 

1900.1901 McNABB, H. H., 8a, St. John Street, Manchester, m.d. vict. 

1899 McNAIR, SAMUEL, 14, Langworthy Road, Weaste, Salford, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. 

EDIN., L.F.P.S. GLAS. 

1904-5 MADGAVKAR, V. D., Summerville, Victoria Park, Manchester, l.m.s. 

BOMBAT, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. EDIN. 

1892 P.O. *MANNERS, ARTHUR, l.r.c.p. edin., m.r.c.s. eng. 

1894-5, 1896-7 MARSDEN, R. W., Taitlands, Swinton Grove, Manchester, m.d. vict., d.p.h. 
VICT., M.R.c.p. LOND. Latc Superintendent of the Manchester Fever 
Hospital, and Lect. in Inf. Dis. Vict. Univ. 

1900, 1902-3 MARSH, J. H., Cumberland House, Macclesfield, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. M.O.H. 
Macclesfield. Med. Supt. Borough Isol. Ho.spital. 

1891-2 MARSHALL, C. R., University College, Dundee, m.d. vict., m.a. camb. 
Professor of 3Iat. Bled., Univ. St. Andrew. 

1904 MARSHALL, F. W. D., Carisbrook, Queen's Road, Clieadle Hulme, b.sc. 

VICT., Chemical Student. 
1891-2 MARTIN, J. M. H., Arnheim, Blackburn, m.d. vict. and Liverpool, m.d. 

BRUX. 

1900-1 MASKELL, J. W., 3, St. George's Street, Chorley, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond. 
1904 MELLING, S. E., The ClifE, Higher Broughton, Manchester, f.i.c. 



436 UEPORT 

1901,1902 MELLING, W. T., Edenfield, Whalley Range, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. 
1895, 1896, IS97 MERCER, W. B., ClifFe Cottage, Ripponden, Yorks., m.a., m.b., b.c. camb., 
D.p.H. VICT. 5I.0.H, Kishworth U.D.C., late Asst. to M.O.H. Man- 
chester. 
1893-4 MEREDITH, J. A., 3Iajor Army Veterinary Department, F.n.c.v.s., late in 
charge of Aldershot Vaccine Station. 
1904, 1905 MILLER, JAMES, Nordrach-on-Dee, Banchory, N.B., m.b., cm. edin. 
1895,1896,1897 MILLIGAN, WILLIAM, 12, St. John Street, Deansgate, Manchester, m.d. 

ABER. 

1896 MILLS, "WILTON, Milnrow, nr. Rochdale, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin. 

1895-6, 1905 p,G. MITCHELL, C. M., Carr Road, Nelson, m.d., m.ch., r.u.i. 

1901, 1902 MOIR, WILLIAM, Belgrave Square, Darwen, m.d. aber., d.p.ii. camb. 

1900, 1901 MOLE, A. E., Brvnfield, Reynoldstone, Glamorganshire, m.b., cm. edin. 
M.O.H, Gowcr U.D.C., late M.O.H. Adlington. 

1892, 1894 MONAGHAN, T. J., 456, King's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W., m.d., st. 

ANDREW, D.p.H. VICT. 

1904 P.G. MONKS, E. H., Regent House, Wigan, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin. 
1897-8 *MONK, G. H., Kimberley, South Africa, m.r.c.s. eng., d.p.h. eng con. bd. 
M.O.H. Kimberley. late M.O.H. Leicester and Scarborough. 

1896-7 MONTGOMERY, W. P., 179, High Street, Oxford Road, Manchester, m.b., 

1899, 1900 g g LOND., M.A. OXON. 

1897, 1898 MOORE, F. C, 96, Mosley Street, Manchester, m.d. vict., m.sc v ct., 
M.R.c.p. LOND. Lecturer on Medicine Manchester University, Lecturer 
on Hygiene Manchester School of Tech nology, late Asst. Lecturer 
on Pathology Owens College. 

1904, 1905 MORISON, J. M. W., Lyndale, Chester Square, Ashton-under-Lyne, m.b., 

CM. GLAS. 

1895-6 MUIR, J. C, St. George's Union Infirmary, Fulham Road, Chelsea, London, 

1900-1901 ' ' n , ' j>> 

M.D. CAMB., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. 

1898 MUMFORD, A. A., Gable Nook, C.-cum-H., Manchester, m.d. lond., 

B.SC VICT. 

1896-7 NEILD, NEWMAN, 9, Richmond Hill, Clifton, Bristol, m.b., ch.b. vict., 
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. LOND. Lccturcr on Pharmacology and Thera- 
peutics, University College, Bristol. 

1894 NESFIELD, R. W., Clifton House, Shelley, nr. Huddersfield, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT. 

1898-9 NEWALL, W. A., 9, Grosvenor Street, Chester, m.d. vict., d.p.h. vict., Lect. 
on Physiol, and Hyg. Chester School of Science. 

1898 NICHOLS, F. P., Lieut.-Colonel R.A.M.C, b.a., camb., m.b. camb. 

1902 NUTTALL, WILLIAM, Little Lever, nr. Bolton, m.b., ch.b. vjct. 

1892 P.G. *0'GORMAN, R. P., l.b.o.p.i., l.m., l.b.cs.i. 



REPORT 437 

1903-4 O'NEILL, C. S., Rockleigh, Egerton Road, Monton, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT., D.P.H. VICT. 

1902-3 O'NEILL, THOMAS, 241, Blackburn Road, Bolton, m.b., ch.b. vict., 

M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. 

1900.1901 OSBORNE, HARRY, Eston, R.S.O., Yorks., m.d. vict., m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

1904,1905 PARK, J, R. S., 183, King Street, Dukinfield, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin. • 
M.O.H. Dukinfield. 

1902,1903 PARK, A. GLEN., Folds House, Bolton, m.d. glasg., f.r.c.s. edin., d.p.ii. 
CAMS. Certifying Surgeon for South Bolton. 

1904 P.G. PARKER, J. E., Moresby House, Hindley, Wigan, m.r.c.s. eng., l.r.c.p.i. 
Late M.O.H. Ince. 
1894 PARKINSON, MALCOLM, 95, Stockport Road, Ixivensliulme, m.b., cm. 

edin., d.p.h. vict. 

1899, 1900 PAYNE, HENRY, Convalescent Hospital, Soutliport, m.d. drux., l.r.c.p. 
edin., m.r.c.s. eng. 

1894, 1895. 1896 *PEARCEY, J. J. W., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. EDIN. 

1905 P.G. PEMBERTON, J. C, 102, Accrington Road, Burnley, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., 

L.P.P.S. GLAS. 

1899, 1900 PICKERING, STANLEY, St. John's House, Farnworth, Bolton, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT. 

1902 PICKLES, S. S., Imperial Institute, South Kensington, S.W., b.sc. 

^i8M PLATT, J. E., 191, High Street, Oxford Road, Manchester, m.d. lond., m.s. 

lond., f.r.c.s. 

18J4 PORTER, CHARLES, Municipal Buildings, Johannesburg, m.d. dub., d.p.h. 

CAMB. M.O.H. Johannesburg, 31.0. Johannesburg and Kand 

Plague Committee, late Asst. M.O.H. E. Kent, M.O.H. Stockport, and 

M.O.H. Shropshire. 

1896,1897-8 PRINGLE, JOHN, 97, Withington Road, Whalley Range, Manchester, 

m.d. DUB., D.P.H. CAMB. Certifying Factory Surgeon. 

1905-6 PRINGLE, A. M. N., Town Hall, Ipswich. M.O.H. Ipswich. 
iS"g. PULLON, G. S., 114, Westgate, Burnley, m.d. edin. 

1892, 1893 QUINE, R. H., Sandy Grove House, Eccles Old Road, Manchester, l.r.c.p. 
edin., l.f.p.s. qlas., d.p.h. vict. Dep. M.O.H. Atherton and Gorton. 

1894*, 1895, 1896 RADCLIFFE, F., 94, Werneth Hall Road, Oldham, m.d. vict. 
1902,1903 RAMSBOTTOM, ALBERT, Norwood House, Middleton, m.b., ch.b. vict., 

d.p.h. vict. 
1891, 1^, RAMSDEN, HERBERT, Sunnyside, Dobcross, Ohlham, m.d. lond., d.p.h. 
1898,1899 ^^^^ M.O.n. Saddleworth U.D.C, 

1897-8, 1904-5 RAMSDEN, W. B., 287, Wilmslow Road, Fullowfield, Manchester, m.b. 

ch.b. vict., b.sc. vict. (noNouRs). Chemical Asst. Public Health 

Laboratory, Victoria University, Research Fellow in Sanitary 

Chemistry. 
1895-V1897-8 RAY, J. H., 11, St. John Street, Manchester, m.b. vict., f.r.c.s. eng. Late 

Medical Officer Salford School Board. 



438 REPORT 

1897-8,1898-9 RENSHAW, J. A. K., 11, St. John Street, Manchester, m.b., b.c. camb., 

M.A., D.P.H. CAMB. 

1904-5 RICHARDSON, W. H., 22, Ribblesdale Place, Winckley Square, Preston, 

M.B., CH.B. VICT. 

1893-4 RICHMOND, JAMES, 11, Vicarage Road, Handsworth, Birmingham, m.d., 
M.A., D.P.H. CAMB. M.O.H. Handswortli and Perry Barr, late Asst. 
Public Health Laboratory. 

1904 RIGBY, W. C, Victoria Terrace, Adlington, Lanes., m.b., ch.b. vict., d.p.h. 

VICT. Certifying Factory Surgeon Adlington. 

1905 p.G. RITCHIE, CHAS., 1, Carr Road, Nelson, m.b., cm. aber. 

1903-4 P.G. ROBB, J. B. K., 38, Carr Road, Nelson, m.a., m.d. aberd. 

1904-5 ROBERTSON, G. 0., Hopetown, Cape Colony, m.a., m.b., ch.b. aberd. 

1904-5 ROBINSON, FRANK, Rockfield, Dunscar, Bolton, m.b., ch.b. vict. 

1902, 1903 RODGERS, F. M., Lancashire County Asylum, Winwick, Warrington, m.b. 

CH.B. vict., d.p.h, vict. 

1894 *ROE, F. L., Wellington Road, Eccles, l.r.c.p. edin., m.r.c.s. enq. 

1904 p.G. ROOCROFT, W. M., 25, King Street, Wigan, m.r.c.s. enq., l.r.c.p. edin. 

- 1898-9 ROSS, J. S., Rossendale, Clitheroe, m.b., ch.b. vict., f.r.c.s. edin. 

1898,1899,1900 ROTHWELL, T. a., Clovelly, Ashley Road, Hale, m.d. vict., M.O.H. 
Hale, late Asst. Public Health Laboratory. 

1900-1 *RUSHTON, B., Whorley Road, Accrington, Public Analyst. 
1902,1903,1904 RUSSELL, H. W., Lieut. R.A.3I.C. Upper Park Camp, Jamaica, m.d. 

vict. 
1899, im 1902, SANDISON, JAMES, Ladywell Sanatorium, Salford, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond., 
D.P.H. CAMB. Asst. M.O. Ladywell Sanatorium. 
1895-6, 1900-1 SCHOFIELD, C. R., 17, Church Street, Stockport, m.b., ch.b. vict. 
1897, 1898 SCHOLEFIELD, G. E., Brentwood, Aughton, nr. Ormskirk, m.d. edin., d.p.h. 
vict. M.O.H. West Lancashire R.D.C, late M.O.H. St. Annes-on- 
Sea. 
1896-7 SCOTT, H. A., M.B., Gh.B. Vict., D.P.H. Died August 2ph, 1900. 

1905 p.G. SCOTT, T. M., 68, Colne Road, Burnley, m.b., cm. edin, 

1894-1900 SELLERS, ARTHUR, 5, Malvern Grove, Withington, m.d. edin., d.p.h. 
VICT. Asst. Public Health Laboratory, and Asst. Lecturer on 
Coinp. Path, and Hact. 

1894 *SHARPLES, W. H., 2, Church Street, Castleton, d.p.h. vict. Late M.O.H. 

Castleton-by-Rochdale U.D. 

1900-1 SHAW, G. H., Burnleigh, Railway Road, Leigh, m.b., ch.b. vict. 

1898-9 SHEA, J. G., Eastwood House, Chesterfield, J.P., m.d. Durham, d.p.h. Ire- 
land, F.R.C.S. IRELAND. 

3894, 1895, 1896 SIDEBOTHAM, E. J., Erlesdene, Bowdon, Cheshire, J.P., m.a., m.b. camb. 
Senior Asst., Lecturer on Pract. Bact,; Public Health Laboratory, 

late Asst. Dem. Anat. Univ. Camb. 



REPORT 439 

1894 SIDEBOTTOM, R. B., Redcourt, Glossop, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., m.r.c.s. 

BNG. 

1897-8 SIDLEY, GEORGE, Monk's Hall, Eccles, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., l.f.p.s. 

GLAS. 

1905 P.G. SINCLAIR, A. M., 99, Manchester Road, Burnley, m.b. aber. 
1900-1 SINCLAIR, W. S., St. Helier's, Maxwelltown, Dumfries, m.b. glas., d.p.h; 

VICT. 

1905 P.G. SLANE, H. J., 9, Todmorden Road, Burnley, m.b., cm. edin. 
1896,1900,1901 SMEETH, H. G., 126, Wellington Road, Heaton Norris, Stockport, m.d. 

^^'^ DUBLIN. 

1903-4 P.G. SMIRTHWAITE-BLACK, J. L., 13, Hargreave Street, Burnley, m.b., cm. 

EDIN. 

1903-4 SMITH, EDWARD, Oatlands, West Kirby, Cheshire, m.b., cm. glasg. 

1905 SMITH, H. L., 192, Plymouth Grove, Manchester, Chemical Student. 

1902-3 *SMITH, J. B., Public Analyst. 

1895-6 SMITH, J. W., 205, High Street, Oxford Street, Manchester, m.b., Xm. edin., 
f.r.cs. eng. 

1895. 1898 SMITH, ROBERT, M.D. Aber., D.P.H. Died February 20th, 190^. 
1892 P.G. SMITH, R. B., 252, Oxford Street, Manchester, m.r.c.s. eng. 

1896 SMITH, T. H., Beresford, Reddish, nr. Stockport, m.d. durh., d.p.h. camb. 

Late M.O.H. Reddish U.D.C. 
1892-3 SNAPE, HAROLD, Barr Hill, Pendleton, Manchester, m.b., ch.b. vict. 
1892 P.G. STALLARD, J. P., 256, Oxford Street, Manchester, m.d. edin. 
1899 *STENHOUSE, E., Rochdale, b.sc, Analytical Chemist. 

1905 STEPHEN, T. C, Dental Student. 

1905 P.G. STEPHENS, J. H., 13, Hargreaves Street, Burnley, m.b., ch.b. vict. 
1892 STEPHENSON, FREDK., Springfield, Bury New Road, Prestwich, l.f.p.s. 

GLASG., l.r.c.p. edin. M.O.H, Prcstwich U.D.C, M.O. Board of 
Education. 
1904 P.G. *STEVENS, G. H., m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

1898.1899 STEVENSON, W. F., l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., l.f.p.s. glas. 

1905 STEWART, ROBERT, Park View, Blackburn Road, Darwen, l.r.c.p., 

L.R.C.S. EDIN., L.F.P.S. GLASG. 

1905 V. STIRLING, J. M., 45, Eldon Street, Blackburn, m.r.cv.s., d.v.s.m. vict. 
Chief Veter. Insp. and Super. Public Abattoir, Blackburn. 

1894 SUGDEN, H. C, West Street, Ramsey, Isle of Man, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond. 

M.O.H. Maughold and Bride. 

1895 SYDENHAM, F. W., Lichfield House, Lichfield Street, Walsall, m.d. bdin., 

D.P.H. VICT. Lect. on Hyg. Walsall Science and Arts Inst. 
1903-4 TATE, I. A., Miss, Union Infirmary, Burnley, m.d. Dublin, d.p.h. vict. 



440 EEPOET 

1894 TATTERSALL, C. H., Town Hall, Salford, l.r.c.p. lond., l.r.c.s. bnq. 

M.O.H. Salford, M.O. Educ. Comm, Salford, late M.O.H. Oldham 
and Eccles. Lecturer on Public Health Victoria University. 

1900,1901 TATTERSALL, J. Asst. Medical Officer London County Asylum, 
Hanwell, London, W., m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

1900, 1901 TATTERSALL, W. H., Mayville, Timperley, m.b., ch.b. vict., m.b. lond. 

1905 V. TAYLOR, W. A., Veterinary Infirmary, Brick Street, Manchester, p.r.c.v.s. 
District Veter. Insp. under Board of Agric. and Cheshire C.C. 

1905 THOMPSON, W. B., Dental Student. 

1904 THOMSON, A. G. P., Brook Hospital, Shooters Hill, Kent, m.b., cm. edin. 

1900-1 THORNLEY, J. M., 66, Eskrick Street, Bolton, m.d. glas. 

1902 THORP, HAROLD, Vale House, Cornholme, nr. Todmorden, m.b., ch.b. 

VICT., D.P.H. VICT., 'm.r.c.s., L.R.C.P. 

1904 TIERNEY, THOMAS, Durbeyville, New Road, Marple, m.d. vict., m.r.c.s., 

L.R.C.P. 

1902-3 TONG, LIVESEY, 551, Chorley Old Road, Bolton, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. lond. 

1895 TONKIN, A. J., Margraff Street, Bultfontein, South Africa. Assis. Dist. 

Surgeon, Bultfontein. 
1896-7 TURNER, R. T., Manor House, Nantwich, m d. vict. M.O.H. Nantwich 
R.D.C. 
1903, low TYLECOTE, F. E., Royal Infirmary, Manchester, m.d. vict., late Lect. on 
Hyg. Tech. School, Macclesfield. 
1894, 1895, 1896, VILLY, FRANCIS, 3, Park Avenue, Keighley, Yorks., m.d. camb., b.a. 
camb. 

1892 p.G. VOIGHT, J. C 10, Manchester Road, Southport, m.d. edin. 
1894 AVALKER, J. S. A., 416, Oldham Road, Newton Heath, Manchester, m.d. 

ABERD. 

1892 WALLACE, R. S., L.F.P.S., L.S.A. Died 1903. 

1903 WEBB, C. C, St. George's House, Chorley, b.a., m.b., b.c. camb., d.p.h, vict. 
1993-4 WEBB, FRANK, 1, Queen Street, Newcastle- under-Lyme, Staffs., l.r.c.p., 

M.R.C.S. LOND. M.O.H. Newcastle-under-Lyme and M.O. Inf, Dis. 
' Hospital. 
1896, 1897 *WEBSTER, WILLIAM, m.d. 
1893-4 WEBSTER, HUGH, 89, Ladypit Lane, Leeds, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. edin., l.f.p.s. 

GLAS. 

^^' 1905 ^^' WELLS, J. W., Montague Street, Blackburn, m.d. edin., d.p.h. vict. 

1903, 1904, 1905 WHARTON, JOHN, Royal Eye Hospital, Oxford Street, Manchester, m.b. 

CAMB., B.A. CAMB. 

1891. 1892 P.G. WHEATLEY, JAMES, Severn House, The Mount, Shrewsbury, m.d. lond., 
D.P.H. edin. M.O.H. County of Shropshire, late M.O.H. Blackburn, 
and Supt. Fever Hospital. 

1903 WHITE, A. E., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. EDIN., L.F.P.S. GLAS. 



REPORT 441 

1903,19WP.G. WHITE, R. PROSSER, Florence House, Standishgate, Wigan, m.d. bdin. 
1892 P.O., 1894 WILKINSON, J. B., Town Hall, Oldham, m.d. edin., d.p.h. vict. RI.O.H. 

Oldham, Med. Supt. Inf. Hospital and M.O. of Schools, Blackburn. 

Consulting 3I.0.H. Co. Huntingdonshire. 

1904 WILLOTT, F., 10, Hopwood Street, Barnsley, Yorks., b.sc. vict. 

1903-4 P.G., WILSON, J. S., Massey House, Briersfield, nr. Burnley, m.d., cm. aberd. 
1905 p.G. M.O.H. Briersfleld. 

1892 p.G. *WILSON, WILLIAM. 
ii»3-4 P.G., WILSON, W. E., 39, Westgate, Burnley, l.r.c.p. edin., m.r.c.s. eng. 

J.UUO ir.KjTw 

1905 WINGFIELD, J. R., 5, Bromwich Street, Bolton, Chemical Student. 

1904 P.G. WINSTANLEY, H., Thornfield, Park Lane, Wigan, l.r.c.p., l.r.c.s. bdin., 

L.R.C.S. GLAS. 

1893,1894 WOLSELET, W. 0., Lieut .-C olond R.A.M.C., L.R.G.P.L, L.R.C.S J„ 
D.P.H. Vict. Died 1905. 

SS.iloo' WOLSTENHOLME, J. B., 102, Quay Street, Manchester, f.r.c.v.s., 
Examiner in Comp. Patli. and Bact. Liverpool University, d.p.h. 
veter., late Examiner Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons. 
1897-8 WOOD, JAMES, 52, Balfour Street, Oldham, m.b., ch.b. vict., d.p.h. 

IRELAND. 

1904 P.G. WOODS, WM., 28, Standishgate, Wigan, f.r.c.v.s. Veter. Insp. Wigan 
and County of Lancaster, Dist. Insp. Board of Agriculture, 
Lecturer in Veterinary Hygiene Victoria University. Exter. Exam., 
Diploma R.c.v.s., Liverpool University. 

7^5 P.G." WRIGHT WALTER, 56, Westgate, Burnley, m.d. brux. 

1897-8 WYLIE, D. S., Devon Street, New Plymouth, New Zealand, m.b., ch-h. 

VICT., P.R.C.S. ENG. 

1896, 1897, 1898 YONGE, E. S., 3, St. Peter's Square, Manchester, m.d. edin. 

1892 YOUATT, LEONARD, 1, Thornhill, Warrington Road, Prescott, Lanes,., 

M.B., CH.B. VICT., d.p.h. VICT. 

1900-1 YOUNG, MEREDITH, Public Health Office, Stockport, m.d. edin., d.p.h. 
VICT., d.p.h., r.c.p.s. M.O.H. Stockport, late M.O.H. Borough of 
Brighouse and Halifax R.D.C., M.O.H. Borough of Crewe. 



INDEX. 



PAGE 
ACEPHALOCYSTS 354 

ANGUILLULA: 

intestinalis 37I 

stercoralis 37I 

ALCOHOL: 

in diet 61 

ALDEHYDE : 

detection and estimation 299 

Romjin's method 299 

Seyewetz and Gibello's method 299 

by Nessler's solution 300 

ANKYLOSTOMA duodenale 369 

ANKYLOSTOMIASIS 369 

treatment 370 

APPENDICITIS : 

and Ascaris lumbricoides 366 

and Oxyuris vermicularis 372 

and Trichocephalus dispar 366, 371 

ARMY (see Typhoid fever). 

ARSENICAL POISONING : 

lesions in brain and spinal cord 443 

cases 311, 323 

causes of lesions 323 

experimental, in rats 327, 333 

literature and bibliography 304, 334 

Post mortem examination of 11 cases 335 

symptoms, in 11 cases 335 

ASCARIS : 

lumbricoides 365 

megalocephala 366 

vermicularis 366 

ATMOSPHERIC CARBONIC ACID (see carbonic acid). 

BACTERIA BEDS 109 

BACTERIAL INFECTION : 

through Ascaris 365 

,, Rhabdonema 371 

,, Trichocephalus 372 

BOTHRIOCEPHALUS latus 365 

BRAIN, in arsenical poisoning (see spinal cord). 

in cases of malignant tumour (see spinal cord). 

BRICKMAKERS, and ankylostomiasis 369 



444 INDEX 

PAGE 

CALF, Variola and vaccinia 137 

CARBONIC ACID IN THE AIR : 

estimation 221 

collection of samples 223 

Dalton's method 221, 223 

Haldane's method 225, 229 

Haldane and Pembrey's method 222 

Letts and Blake's method 225 

Robertson's method 224 

Variations, seasonal and diurnal 227 

influence of towns, water, vegetation, fogs, rain 228 

influence of soil, respiration, combustion 229 

CARBON MONOXIDE : 

detection in the air 20 

mode of action 18 

poisoning 18 

occurrence and symptoms 18 

post-mortem appearances 20 

prevention 20 

toxicity 18 

CAT, bothriocephalus latus 365 

CARVER, J. R. Characters of yeasts occurring in tanning materials and in 

tanning liquors and effluents 277 

CERCARIA, action of chloride of sodiimi 365 

CERCOMONAS intestinalis 358 

CESTODA, parasitic in man 363 

CHIMPANZEE, ascaris lumbricoides and appendicitis 366 

COAL GAS POISONING 17 

COOKING OF MEAT, penetration of heat 373 

COPEMAN, S. Monckton: 

Vaccination, its pathology and practice 119 

Etiology of Vaccinia and Variola 132 

Relation of Variola and Vaccinia 136 

CYSTICERCUS bovis 363 

cellulosae 363 

DELEPINE, S. Effluvium nuisance attributed to the use of Yeast in a tannery. 249 

Outbreak of Diphtheria at Thelwall 268 

DIARRHCEA DEATH RATES, factors influencing 65 

DIBOTHRIUM latum 365 

DIET, appropriate to different ages 50 

from the economical point of view 51 

of man doing moderate work 46 

of poor families 58 

DIMORPHUS muris 358 

DIPHTHERIA : 

" carrier " cases 88, 93 

latent microbism 88 

"missed " cases 80, 90 



INDEX 445 

PAGE 
DIPHTHERIA : 

protracted infection 94 

recurrent infection 82, 94 

" return " cases 84 

Thelwall outbreak, extent and duration 268 

incidence of other infectious diseases in district 269 

importation of infection 272 

DIPYLIDIUM cucumerina 364 

DISTOMA, erratic 365 

hepaticum 365 

DOG, Bothriocephalus latus 365 

Lamblia intestinalis 358 

Ta«nia cucumerina 364 

, , echinococcus 363 

DYSENTERY in South Africa during the Boer war 31 

influence of age of patient 31 

,, of "seasoning" 32 

of flies 33 

EAR DISCHARGES in Diphtheria 85, 95 

ECHINOCOCCUS, multilocularis 364 

polymorphus 363 

ENTERIC FEVER (see Typhoid fever). 

ENTERITIS : 

Ascaris lumbricoides 366 

Coccidium jalinum 362 

Lamblia int«stinalis 358 

Rhabdonema strongyloides 371 

Trichocephalus dispar 372 

(See also Dysentery and Typhoid fever). 

FARM LABOURERS and Ankylostomiasis 369 

FILTERS : 

mechanical : 

Candy filter 216 

Jewell filter 214 

Pittsburg experiments 215 

York observations 216 

Sand, area 208 

effective size of sand 198 

filtering film 198, 201, 206 

head of water 198 

Massachussett's experiments 197 

packing 199 

thickness of sand layer 198 

(see also water filtration.) 

FISH, larvae of Bothriocephalus latus 365 

poisoning by mineral pitch 291 

FLIES (see Dysentery and Typhoid fever). 

FOOD, composition of chief articles of 48 



446 INDEX 

PAGE 

FOOD, current prices 47 

maternal milk 63 

preserved foods 62 

FORMALDEHYDE (see aldehyde). 

FOWLER, Gilbert J. The application of chemical analysis to the study of 

biological processes of sewage purification 97 

FROG, cercaria 365 

GASTROPHILUS : 

equi 373 

haemorrhoidalis 373 

nasalis 373 

pecorum 373 

action of sulphide of carbon 373 

HAYWARD, J. E. 

On the construction of Life Tables 141 

Comparison of the Mortality from Phthisis in England and Wales during 

the decennia 1881—1890 and 1891—1900 171 

HEIGHT AND WEIGHT OF BODY of boys and men between the ages of 

10 and 30 50 

HORSE, ascaris megalocephala 366 

gastrophilus equi ...( 373 

HOUSING, relation to feeding 61 

HYMENOLEPIS nana 364 

INDUSTRIAL DISEASES, phosphorus poisoning 3 

INFANTS FEEDING : 

defective , 64 

instruction of girls 68 

relation to physical exercise 61 

INFECTIOUS DISEASES : 

"carrier" cases 78, 81 

difficulties of diagnosis 86 

,, ,, notification 86 

,, ,, supervision 86 

incubation period 77 

invasion 78 

latent period 77 

"missed" cases 79, 80, 85 

relapses 85 

INSECTA, intestinal parasites 373 

INTESTINAL PARASITES : 

Cestoda 363 

Nematoda 365 

Protozoa 358 

Trematoda 365 

LACTATION, maternal 63 

LAMBLIA, intestinalis 358 



INDEX 447 

PAGE 

LAWRENCE, Reginald. The Brain and Spinal Cord in Arsenical poisoning ... 301 
The nerve cells of the central nervous system in cases of malignant 

tumours 339 

LIFE TABLES CONSTRUCTION : 

abbreviated methods 160 

Calculation of data 151 

Compilation of data 151 

extended life table 144 

"finite differences" method 147 

graphic method 147 

methods I., II., III., IV 152, 159 

LIFE TABLES FOR ENGLAND AND WALES, 1891—1900 178 

LIMN^A : 

peregrina 365 

truncatula 365 

LUCIFER MATCHES (see matches). 
MALIGNANT TUMOURS : 

mode of death in 34 cases 341 

post-mortem appearances of the spinal cord and brain 341 

state of nerve cells 345 

MALNUTRITION of infants 66 

MATERNAL LACTATION 63 

MATCHES, lucifer : 

compensation to makers 11 

factories of Great Britain and Ireland 4 

hygienic aspect of industry 13 

processes attended with danger 5 

MEGASTOMA entericum 358 

MICROBISM, latent, Diphtheria 88 

Scarlet fever 87 

MIESCHER'S CORPUSCLES 363 

MILK SUPPLIES, improvement 66 

MINERS ANEMIA 369, 371 

MONKEYS, Variola and Vaccinia 137 

MORTALITY STATISTICS : 

all ages, England and Wales, 1838—1901 41 

all ages, Manchester, 1851—1900 43 

from certain diseases 44 

children under 1 year, England and Wales 62 

,, ,, ,, Manchester 63, 64 

influence of poverty 44 

Phosphorus poisoning in Great Britain 11 

Phthisis 171 

MOUSE, Lamblia intestinalis 358 

MUSCLES, Sarcocystis Miescheri 363 

MEMATODA, intestinal parasites 365 

NEWSHOLME, Arthur. The role of "missed" cases in the spread of infectious 

diseases ' ^ 



448 INDEX 

PAGE 

NICKEL-CARBONYL poisoning 18 

NIVEN, James. Feeding in relation to the health of the young 41 

physical condition as indicated by death-rates 41 

the feeding of adults and children 46 

NOTTER, J. Lane. Typhoid Fever, Dysentery and allied diseases among large 

communities 25 

Typhoid Fever and Dysentery in South Africa during the Boer war 31 

OCCUPATIONS IN RELATION TO DISEASE : 

brick makers 18, 369 

caisson workers 14 

cement workers 18 

coal gas workers 18 

coal miners 18 

farm labourers 369 

iron smelters 18 

lamp black makers 18 

match (lucifer) makers 4 

miners 369, 371 

laundresses 18 

limestone burners 18 

scavengers 16 

tanners 261 

OLIVER, Thomas. Phosphorus poisoning 3 

Sulphuretted hydrogen poisoning 14 

Carbon monoxide poisoning 17 

OX, cysticercus bovis 363 

distomata in lungs 365 

OXYURIS : 

ambigua 367 

vermicularis 366 

PARASITES (animal). 

effects of temperature 357, 363, 372 

,, ,, fermentation and putrefaction 358 

intestinal 357 

PERITONITIS and ascarides 366 

PERRONCITO, Edoardo. Address on some points concerning human intestinal 

parasites 354 

PHOSPHORUS : 

oxides 3 

necrosis 8 

poisoning 3 

acute 6 

industrial 7 

lesions 6, 7, 8 

prevalence 11 

symptoms 6, 7, 8 

PHOSPHORISM 7 

"PHOSSY JAW" 8 



INDEX 449 

PAGE 
PHTHISIS, mortality in England and Wales 171 

PIG, Coccidium jalinum 3g3 

Cysticerus cellulosae 353 

Sarcocystis Miescheri 363 

PITCH (mineral) : 

effects on fish 294 

in mud of streams 293 

in road washings 294 

POVERTY and mortality 44 

PROFESSIONAL DISEASES (see Occupations). 

PROTOZOA, intestinal parasites 358 

PSEUDORHABDITIS stercoralis 371 

PHYSICAL CONDITION of school children 69, 70 

PHYSICAL EXERCISE in relation to feeding 81, 69 

RABBIT : 

Lamblia intestinalis 358 

Oxyuris ambigua 366 

RAINEY'S TUBES 363 

RAMSDEN, W. B. On two aldehyde reactions 296 

RAT, arsenical poisoning 327 

Lamblia intestinalis 358 

RHABDONEMA, Strongyloides 371 

ROBERTSON, John. Atmospheric carbonic acid and its variations 219 

SAND FILTERS (see filters). 

SANITARY APPLIANCES 233 

antiquated and obsolete 234 

broken or flawed 236 

defective design, planning or setting 235, 237 

polluting air 242, 243, 246 

SAPROLEGNIA 292 

SARCOCYSTIS MIESCHERI 363 

SCARLET FEVER (see infectious diseases). 

latent microbism 87 

without rash 80 

SELLERS, A. (see Sidebotham). 

SEPTIC TANK 108 

SEWAGE : 

analysis 100 

composition 106 

effluent, arbitrary limits of impurities 116 

effects of discharge into lakes, rivers, sea 114 

purification methods — changes in bacteria beds 109 

,, in septic tank 108 

suspended matter 102, 103, 113 

Variations 1^1 

SIDEBOTHAM, E. J. and SELLERS, A. 

Investigation of an epidemic of fish poisoning 289 



450 INDEX 

PAGE 
SMALL POX (see Variola). 

SPINAL CORD IN ARSENICAL POISONING 303 

experimental in rats 327, 333 

human cases 311, 323 

literature and bibliography 304, 334 

methods of investigation 303, 342 

in cases of malignant tumours 341 

state of nerve cells 345 

STRONGYLOIDES intestinalis 371 

SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN : 

mode of action 15 

poisoning 14 

lesions 14 

occurrence 14 

treatment 17 

types 17 

toxicity 16 

SYNCHYTRIUM miescherianum 363 

T^NIA : 

canina 364 

cucumerina 364 

echinococcus 363 

mediocanellata 363 

murina 364 

nana 364 

saginata 363 

solium 363 

TAN LIQUORS, gases generated 262, 264 

souring 281 

TANNERS, health 261, 266 

TANNERY, description of a tannery 253 

effluents 258, 262 

,, ,, gases 264 

tanning material 259 

, , processes 254, 255 

THRESH, J. C. Water-filtration in connexion with water supplies 191 

TRAPS : 

circumvention 244 

defective kinds — bell trap 236 

box trap 235 

Buxton trap 234 

dish trap 237 

duck bill trap 234 

unsealing by syphonage 245 

TREMATODA, intestinal parasites 365 

pulmonary parasites 365 



INDEX 451 

PAGE 
TRICHINA, spiralis 372 

action of heat 372 373 

TRICHOCEPHALUS, dispar 371 

hominis 37 j 

TUBERCULOSIS (see Phthisis). 

" missed cases .79 

TUMOURS (see malignant tumours). 

TYPHOID FEVER : 

communicability from person to person 35 

,, through water 36 

,, through flies 33 

in the Army in South Africa during the Boer war 31 

in the City of Dublin 29 

influence of age 31 

density of population 34 

excreta disposal 33 

flies 33 

ground water 29 

"seasoning of recruits" 32 

soil 27 

water supply 36 

UNCINARIA Americana 369 

duodenalis 369 

VACCINATION 

Act, 1898, effect of 127 

efficient 129 

historical remarks .. 121 

legislation and administration 122 

operative procedure and after treatment 127, 130 

public 126 

statistical returns 126, 131 

VACCINE LYMPH : 

glycer inated 125 

purification and preservation 124 

VACCINIA : 

bacteriology 134, 135 

histology of vesicle 133 

pathology 132 

relation to variola 136, 139 

VACHER, Francis. Defective Sanitary Appliances 231 

VARIOLA : 

bacteriology 135 

eruption sometimes absent 80, 89 

experiments on calves 137 

,, on monkeys 137 

relation to vaccinia 136, 139 



452 INDEX 

PAGE 
WATEE : 

filtration (see filters). 

automatic regulation 199, 206 

bacteriological standard 200 

control 200 

historical remarks 193 

rate 199, 206 

regulators 206 

Systems : 

., American 194 

., Continental 194 

. English 193 

Puech's 210 

Sources 195 

WATER GAS poisoning 17 

WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF BODY of boys and men between ages of lOand 30 50 
YEASTS in tanning material and liquors 260, 262, 279 



SHERBATT AND HUGHES 



MANCHESTER UNIVERSITY PUBLICATIONS. 

Medical Series. No. 1. 
No. I. SKETCHES OF THE LIVES AND WORK OF THE 
HONORARY MEDICAL STAFF OF THE ROYAL INFIRMARY. 
From its foundation in 1752 to 1830, when it became the Royal 
Infirmary. By Edward Mansfield Brockbank, M.D., M.R.C.P. 
Crown 4to. (Illustrated). 15s. net. 

Medical Series. No. 2 
No. II. PRACTICAL PRESCRIBING AND DISPENSING. For 
Medical Students. By William Kirkby, sometime Lecturer in 
Pharmacognosy in the Owens College, Manchester. Crown 8vo. 
200 pp. 4s. 6d. net. 

Historical Series. No. 1. 
No. III. MEDIEVAL MANCHESTER AND THE BEGINNING 
OF LANCASHIRE. By James Tait, M.A., Professor of Ancient 
and MedifEval History. Demy Svo. 240 pp. 7s. 6d. net. 

Economic Series. No. 1. 
No. IV. THE LANCASHIRE COTTON INDUSTRY. By S. J. 
Chapman, M.A., Jevons Professor of Political Economy and Dean 
of the Faculty of Commerce. 7s. 6d. net. 

Historical Series. No. 2. 
No. V. INITIA OPERUM LATINORUM QUAE SAECULIS XIII., 
XIV., XV. ATTRIBUUNTUR. By A. G. Little, M.A., Lecturer 
in Palaeography. Demy Svo. 300 pp. (interleaved). 15s. net. 

Medical Series. No. 3. 
No. VI. HANDBOOK OF SURGICAL ANATOMY. By G. A. 
Wright, B.A., M.B. (Oxon.), F.R.C.S., and C. H. Preston, M.D., 
F.R.C.S., L.D.S. Crown Svo. (Second Edition). 5s. net. 

Historical Series. No. 3. 
No. VII. THE OLD COLONIAL SYSTEM. By Gerald Berkeley 
Hertz, M.A., B.C.L. Demy Svo. Price 5s. net. 

Economic Series No. 2. (Gartside Report No. 1.) 
No. VIII. AN EXAMINATION OF THE COTTON INDUSTRY 
IN THE UNITED STATES. By T. W. Uttley Demy Svo. 
Price Is. net 



00 CHANDOS STllEET, LONDON W.C. 



SHERRATT AND HUGHES 



MANCHESTER UNIVERSITY PUmmmS-continued. 

Theological Series. No. 1. 

No. IX. INAUGURAL LECTURES delivered during the Session 
1904-5, by 

Professor T. F. Tout, M.A. (Oxford). 

Professor H. W. Hogg, M. A. (Edinburgh). 

Professor A. S. Peake, M.A. 

Professor J. T. Marshall, M.A. (London), D.D. (Toronto). 

Professor T. W. Rhys Davids, LL.D. (Edinburgh), Ph.D. 

(Breslau). 
Rev. L. Hasse. 

Rev. J. H. MouLTON, M.A. (Cambridge), etc. 
Rev. A. Gordon, M.A. (Edinburgh). 
Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A. (London), D.D. (St. Andrews). 
Rev. Canon E. L. Hicks, M.A. 
Rev. H. D. Lockett, M.A. (Oxford). 
Rev. R. Mackintosh, B.D. (Edinburgh), M.A., D.D. 
Glasgow). Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net. 

Anatomical Series. No. 1. 

No. X. STUDIES IN ANATOMY from the Anatomical Department 
of the University of Manchester. Edited by Alfred H. Young, 
M.B. (Edin.), F.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy. Demy 8vo., 
320 pp., 24 Plates. 10s. net. 

Medical Series. 

TREATISE ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. By W. Sellers, 
M.D. (London), M.B., M.R.C.S., etc. [In the Press. 

Medical Series. 

HANDBOOK OF DISEASES OF THE HEART. By Graham Steell, 
M.D., F.R.C.P., Lecturer in Diseases of the Heart, and Physician 
.to the Manchester Royal Infirmary. [In the Press. 

Medical Series. 
A COURSE OF INSTRUCTION IN OPERATIVE SURGERY in the 
Victoria University of Manchester. By William Thorburn, M.D., 
B.S. (Lend.), F.R.C.S., Lecturer in Operative Surgery. 

[In the Press. 

60 CHANDOS STREET, LONDON W.C, 



SHERRATT AND HUGHES 



MANCHESTER UNIVERSITY PUBUmmS-cofitinued. 

Medical Series. 

A CATALOGUE OF THE PATHOLOGICAL MUSEUM OF THE 

UNIVERSITY OF MANCHESTER. Edited by J. Lorrain 

Smith, M.A., M.D, (Edin.), Professor of Pathology. 1(XX» pp., 

4to. [/;, the Pres9. 

EDtrcATiONAL Series. No. 1. 

CONTINUATION SCHOOLS IN ENGLAND AND ELSEWHERE : 
Their place in the Educational System of an Industrial and Com- 
mercial State. By Michael E. Sadler, M.A., LL.D., Professor of 
the History and ' Administration of Education. 

This work is largely based on an enquiry made by past and present 
Students of the Educational Department of the University of Manchester. 
Chapters on Continuation Schools in the German Empire, Switzerland, 
Denmark, and France, have been contributed by other writers. 

[In the Press. 



CALENDAR OF THE VICTORIA UNIVERSITY OF MAN- 
CHESTER. Session 1904-5. Demy 8vo. 1100 pp. Price 3s. net. 

CALENDAR OF THE VICTORIA UNIVERSITY OF MAN- 
CHESTER. Session 1905-6. Demy 8vo. 1100 pp. Price 3s. net. 

THE BANK OF ENGLAND AND THE STATE (A Lecture). By 
Felix Schuster. Price 6d. net. 

GARDEN CITIES (Warburton Lecture). By Ralph Neville, K.C. 
Price 6d. net. 

BEARING AND IMPORTANCE OF COMMERCIAL TREATIES 
IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY. By Sir Thomas Barclay. 
Price 6d. net. [In the Press. 

RECORD OF THE JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS AT OWENS 
COLLEGE, MANCHESTER. 200 pp. (illustrated). Price 2s. 6d. 

THE BOOK OF RUTH (Unpointed Text). Price 6d. net. 

SCENES FROM THE RUDENS OF PLAUTUS, with a Translation 
into English Verse. Edited by R. S. Conway, Litt.D., Professor 
of Latin in the University. 6d. net. 

THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGE AND THE STUDY OF THE 
GREEK TESTAMENT (A Lecture). By James Hopk Moulton, 
M.A., Litt.D. Price 6d. net. [/« the Press. 

60 CHANDOS STREET, LONDON W.C. 



oa 



z^ 


' '" " 


o 


Univenify of Toronto 




•H 

• 


Library 




u 

-P 




/ 


to X! C 
O O -H 


DO NOT f 




00 fl D^ 

3 ^<D 








REMOVE / 




Cm Q 






O 






>» to ^ • 


THE // 




-P O • i-» 






•H ^ TJ O 






w ?H a> > 
Ih o • 
<D -P • 


CARD 1 




> cd • 


\\ 




•H ^1 CO 


\\ 




a o 0) 


FROM \\ 




rt .H 


\\ 




aJ k:i .a 


^ 




•H O 


THIS \ 




O -P «a5 




-P H 


^Ok 


o cd 


POCKET X 


\. 




Acme Library Card Pocket 




f>> 


LOWE-MARTIN CO. LlMllBD 




3> 










■ -^ __ 


^ 



