Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




DAftton. Wass 



^b & Barrows 



J 






Ui 



HOME ECONOMICS 



Dew antp EnlarfleO Edition 

HOME ECONOMICS 

A PEACTICAL GUIDE 
IN EVEEY BEANCH 
OF HOUSEKEEPING 

BY 

MARIA PARLOA 



ILLTOTEATED 



NEW YORK 

THE CENTURY CO. 

1915 






Copyright, 1898, 1906, 
By The Century Co. 

_ p, ^ 



n^- o 



^ 



PREFACE 

" Home economics," " domestic science," " domestic econ- 
omy," and "household economy" are all terms which are 
applied to the same science (the management of the home). 
In Europe, where this subject has received much more at- 
tention than in this country, the term " domestic economy " 
is the one generally employed. 

Home economics covers a vast field, to which nearly all 
the arts and sciences contribute. Few women have the time 
to devote to investigation and experiment in all the lines 
that bear upon the making of the home. In these days of 
specializing, it would take a large library and much time to 
cull from the various sources the kinds of knowledge that 
bear directly upon the making and the management of the 
home. The aim of this book is to supply such knowledge 
in a clear, practical, and concise manner. 

There seems to be a need for a book that deals with the 
necessities of daily home life, that teaches the housekeeper 
the materials and forces with which she has to deal, and the 
way in which they should be treated. This book has been 
planned upon this basis. It treats of the conditions which 
make the soil under the house and in the immediate neighbor- 
hood healthful or unhealthful, the changes in water caused 
by proper and improper conditions, the sources and char- 
acteristics of fuels and oils, besides giving careful con- 
sideration to the material that enters into the construction 
and the furnishing of the home. 



vi PREFACE 

The chapters on marketing and carving are planned in a 
novel way, showing by the skeleton the portion of the bone 
in each cut of meat. Then are given the position and struc- 
ture of the muscles of the animal, the changed position of 
the bones and muscles in the hind quarter when the animal 
is hung, until the final cutting into joints by the butcher, 
and the cutting into portions by the carver. Any one who 
will study these two chapters carefully cannot fail to get 
a clear and practical knowledge of these two important 
branches of home economics. 

The care of wood finish and of polished floors is becom- 
ing more and more a necessary part of the education of the 
housekeeper. Beautiful floors and finishes are being con- 
stantly ruined for lack of proper treatment. The polishing 
of floors opens a new avenue of employment for careful, in- 
telligent men. 

While there has been no attempt made toward giving 
receipts for cookery, the chapter on foods will be found to 
embody the principles underlying all good cookery. 

Every statement has been thoroughly tested by the author 
in the years that she has devoted to the study and experi- 
ments which have made this volume possible. 

Maria Parloa. 

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION 

Through my magazine correspondence in the past eight 
years I have been asked for help in solving a great many 
household problems. Out of the thousands of answers 
to these questions, I have selected over sixty which apply 
to problems that are liable to arise in most households. 

These recipes will add to the value of the book, and will, 
I am sure, be appreciated by housekeepers. 

Maria Parloa. 



CONTENTS 

PAGB 

Preface v 

CHAPTER I 

Some Essentials of the Home 1 

Selecting the house.— Size and style of the house.— The skeleton 
and circulatory system of the house.— The situation and foundation 
of the house.- The foundation-walls.— A closet for preserves and 
similar supplies.— General plan of the house.— The kitchen and 
pantries.— Pantries. — ^Materials used in building.— The interior 
finish of the house.- The chimney and furnace-pipes. — The plumb- 
ing. — Country houses.- Drainage and earth-closets. 



CHAPTER n 

The Water-Supply 27 

Situation and depth of well or spring.— Methods of softening and 
purifying water.— Tests for impurities in water. 



CHAPTER ra 

Furnishing 35 

The hall.— The dining-room.— The library.— The living-room.— The 
parlor.— The bedrooms.— The kitchen.— Kitchen utensils.— Tin- 
ware.— Ironware.— Granite-ware.— Woodenware.— Earthenware.— 
Stoneware. —Miscellaneous. —Ventilation. 



CHAPTER IV 

Daily Routine op Household Work 61 

General directions for sweeping and dusting.— To clean matting.— 
How to wash windows.— Cleaning copper and brasses.- How to 

vii 



▼1" CONTENTS 

PAQK 

dean painted woodwork.— Care of window-sashes.— Care of dining- 
room.— Care of tableware.— Care of kitchen and pantries.- Care 
of the floors.— Care of kitchen utensils.— Tinware.— Woodenware. 
—The tea-kettle.— Tea-pots and coffee-pots.— Care of the refrig- 
erator.— The sink.— To clean an iron sink.— Care of cellar.— 
Household refuse.— Care of the plumbing. 



CHAPTER V 

The Laundry 98 

Soaking the clothes.— Washing the clothes. — Summary of the work. 
—To prepare bluing-water.— Flannels.— Colored flannels.— Sum- 
mary.— Blankets.— Colored cotton articles.— Washing with starch. 
— To make the starch.— Silk undergarments.— Washing with kero- 
sene.- Lace curtains.— Starching.— To make gum-arabic starch.— 
Stiffening with gelatin.— Boiled starch.— Raw starch.— Hanging 
clothes out to dry.— Folding clothes for ironing.— Preparing 
for ironing.— Folding the clothes after ironing.— A few words about 
the clothes-wringer.— The laundry.— How to dissolve soap.— How 
to clean irons. 



CHAPTER VI 

Care op Lighting Appuances 126 

Management of gas.— Oil-lamps.— Some facts in regard to pe- 
troleum. 



CHAPTER VH 

Fuel and Fires 133 

Kinds of fuel.— Care of the furnace fire.— The morning wck.— 
The cold-air box.— Heating-stoves.— Care of the range.— Some 
points to remember in the treatment of range fires.— Grate fires.— 
Don'ts.— To remove clinkers. 



CHAPTER Vni 

Table Service 148 

General arrangements of the table.— The breakfast-table.— The 
dinner-table.— The luncheon-table.— The tea-table.— Waiting on 
the table.— Ceremonious entertaining.— Some points on table 
etiquette.— The duties of the waitress.— Protecting the table from 
hot dishes. 



CONTENTS ix 



CHAPTER IX 

PAGE 

Marketing 168 

Tbe muscular system.— Some characteristics of the muscular flesh 
of animals.— The minor parts of the animal.— Game and poultry.- 
Care and purchase of general supplies. 



CHAPTER X 

The Art op Carving 202 

Some suggestions about carving.— General remarks on serving fish. 

CHAPTER XI 

Pood 222 

Brief outline of the processes of digestion.— Fruits.— Fats.— Princi- 
ples underlying the cooking of albuminous substances.— Principles 
underlying the cooking of vegetable substances.— The manipulation 
of materials.— Flavors and odors.- Economy in food.— Growth and 
repair.— Heat and force.— Vegetables with little or no starch. 

CHAPTER Xn 

Woods and Polished Floors 262 

Polished floors.— Hard-wood floors.— Waxed floors.— To clean and 
wax at the same time.— Summary.— Stained floors waxed.— General 
directions for oiling floors.— Summary.— Cleaning with petroleum.— 
Appliances used in polishing floors.— Piazza floors. 

CHAPTER Xin 

Treatment op Wood Finishes 279 

To restore color and finish to wood.— Summary.— How to make pads 
for wood finishing.— To clean and restore the polish on woods.— Sum- 
mary.— To clean the woodwork of furniture. 

CHAPTER XIV 

Oils: Their Use and Behavior 288 

Lubricating oils.— Cleaning oils.— Oils used as foods and medicines.— 
Cotton-seed oil.— Castor-oil.— Cod-liver oil.— Spontaneous combustion. 



X CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XV 

PAGB 

Stains ... 300 

Stains on fabrics.— Stains on wood. 



CHAPTER XVI 

Miscellaneous Matter 312 

Some points on laying floor-coverings.— The finishing, filling, and 
staining of floors.- How to prepare the filler.— Staining with chem- 
icals.— The preparation and application of stains.— Summary.— Points 
on mixing stains. —Stains made from colors ground in oil.— Stains 
made from colors in powder.— To graduate the stains.- Things im- 
portant to remember.— Gluing furniture and other articles.— How 
to mend plaster casts and picture-frames.— To clean plaster casts.— 
To wax and stain casts.— Care of small marbles and alabaster.— To 
clean bronzes.— To polish the brass trimmings of furniture.— Some 
uses of lime-water.— Chloride of lime.— Liquid soda.- Javelle water. 
—Carbolic acid.— Solution of oxalic acid.— Furniture-cleaner and -pol- 
isher.— Encaustic No. 1.— Encaustic No. 2.— Wax for polishing furni- 
ture.— Materials for care of furniture and floors.— Pullers' earth.— To 
clean with fullers' earth.— To make scouring-balls.— To clean with 
scouring-balls.— How to put new linings in boots and shoes.— To clean 
combs and brushes.— To clean coat collars.— Aids in darning large 
holes.— How to revive and straighten whalebone.— To prevent stains 
showing through whitewash or paper.— To prevent the corners of 
rugs from curling.— How to heat inflammable substances.— Precau- 
tions to be taken in cleaning.— Frames for dress-waists and men's 
clothing.— Convenient clothes-rack.— Steel wool and steel shavings. 
—Insects and vermin.— Cockroaches.— Thermometers in the kitchen. 
—The melting-point of some metals and alloys.— The melting-point of 
some fats and sugar.— Bacteriology.— Household accounts, and the 
division of the income. 



CHAPTER XVII 
Supplementary Chapter 353 

Index , . . . 389 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



no. PAGE 

1 Plan of Cold Room in Cellar 10 

2 Plan op Kitchen, China-Closet, and Pantries : . . .13 

3 Plan op China-Closet and Pantry 15 

4 Plan op Cold Pantry 16 

5 Plan op Closets por Cleaning-Appuances, Wraps, etc. . . 16 

6 Kitchen Dresser 17 

7 Kitchen Dresser 18 

8 Sewer-Gas Traps 24 

9 Stove Showing Direction op Waves op Heat when Smoke- 

Damper is Opened 142 

9a Stove Showing Direction op Waves op Heat when Smoke- 
Damper IS Closed 143 

10 Skeleton op Ox, Showing Location op the Bones in the Va- 

rious Cuts op Meat 174 

11 Muscular Fiber, Showing the Arrangement in Bundles . . 175 

12 Muscular Fiber, Partially Separated into Fibrils . . .175 

13 Muscular Fiber, Cut across the Grain 175 

14 Muscular System op an Ox, Showing the Direction in which 

THE Muscles Run, and where the Dipperent Cuts Comb prom 177 

15 Showing Changed Position op Thigh-Bone when the Hind Quar- 

ter OP THE Animal is Hung 179 

16 Showing Changed Position op Muscles when Hind Quarter is 

Hung 179 

17 Side op Beep— Inside 181 

18 Side op Beep— New York Method op Cutting .... 182 

19 Showing Method op Cutting Sirloin Steaks .... 184 

20 Hip-Bone Steak 184 

zi 



xii LIST OP ILLUSTRATIONS 

FIG. PAOB 

21 Flat-Bone Steak 185 

22 Round-Bone Steak 185 

23 Short oe *' Delmonico " Steak 185 

24 Side of Mutton, Showing Method or Cutting .... 189 

25 Showing Method of Carving Sirloin or Porterhouse Roast . 206 

26 Showing Method op Carving Roast Ribs of Beep . . . 207 

27 Showing Method op Carving Round op Beep .... 207 

28 Showing Method op Carving Leg op Mutton .... 207 

29 Showing Method op Carving Saddle op Mutton . . . 209 

30 Showing Method op Carving Fore Quarter op Lamb . . 210 

31 Showing Method op Carving Breast op Veal .... 210 

32 Showing Method op Carving a Shoulder op Mutton . . 210 

33 Showing Method op Carving the Under Part op the Shoulder 210 

34 Showing Position op Shoulder-Bone 211 

35 Showing Position of Muscles in Shoulder . . . .211 

36 Showing Method op Carving a Ham 212 

37 Showing Method op Carving a Tongue ...'.. 212 

38 Showing Method op Carving Haunch op Venison . . . 213 

39 Showing Method op Carving Roast Pig 213 

40 Showing Position of Divided Roast Pig on Platter . . . 214 

41 Showing Method of Carving Turkey 214 

42 Showing Method op Carving Roast Duck ..... 218 

43 Showing a Second Method op Carving Roast Duck . . . 219 

44 Showing Method op Carving Small Fish 220 

45 Showing Method op Carving Cod's Head and Shoulder . . 220 

46 Showing Method of Carving Salmon, etc 220 

47 Showing Method op Carving Flatfish 220 

48 Showing how the Annual Layers are Arranged in a Log of 

Wood 265 

49 Showing Rift and Slash in a Pine Board 266 

50 Showing the Method of Cutting a Log 266 

51 Showing Manner of Cutting Carpet for Register . . . 314 

52 Showing Convenient Clothes-Rack 340 



HOME ECONOMICS 



HOME ECONOMICS 

CHAPTER I 

SOME ESSENTIALS OP THE HOME 

Selecting the house. Size and style of the house. The skeleton and circu- 
latory system of the house. The situation and foundation of the house. 
The foundation-walls. A closet for preserves and similar supplies. Gen- 
eral plan of the house. The kitchen and pantries. Pantries. Materials 
used in building. The interior finish of the house. The chimney and fur- 
nace-pipes. The plumbing. Country houses— drainage and earth-closets. 

THE house does not make the home, but it has a great 
influence on the health and character of the inmates. 
When one lives in a rented house it is not possible to 
control all the conditions, as one can when building a house; 
but certainly one should be careful to select a home in a 
neighborhood where the drainage and water are good, and 
the people are of a class agreeable to know. If one has chil- 
dren, it is important that the home be near good schools. 

SELECTING THE HOUSE 

When hiring a house, the would-be tenant should examine 
it carefully before signing a lease. Examina 

1. Examine the outside— walls, foundations, ^th^ 
underpinning of piazzas, and chimneys, leaders biforedgn. 
and water-pipes, blinds and fastenings. ingleaie. 

2. Examine the cellar— floors, walls, and Woodwork. Are 

they damp or dry? Is there any odor? Are the foundation- 

1 



2 HOME ECONOMICS 

walls and the floors in good condition? Is it well lighted? 
Are the bins for fuel in a convenient place, and are they 
ample? Is the furnace in good condition? Are the stairs 
secure and well lighted? 

3. Examine the plumbing. What is the condition of 
pipes and faucets? Are the flushing appliances wholly 
separated from the general-supply tank? Is the plumbing 
properly trapped? Is there any odor from it? 

4. Examine the walls to see that there are no breaks in 
the plaster or paper. Remove drawers to see if the space 
back of them is plastered; if not, stipulate that this shall be 
done. Look at the woodwork, floors, and window-casings, 
looking carefully at locks and catches to see that they are 
in good condition. Be sure that the house has such an 
exposure that you get the sun. Better have fewer conve- 
niences with a sunny house than take a house where you get 
little or no sun, even though with the latter you should get 
finer finish and more conveniences. 

Being satisfied with the general condition of 

lease ^^^ house, the next care is the lease. In this 

is satisfao- should be stated the period for which the lease 

*°Sn^r ^^^^' ^^^ ^®^* *^ ^^ P^^^> ^^^ condition in which 
the house comes into your hands, whether land- 
lord or tenant makes the repairs, and, if the tenant makes 
any, what they are to be. The water-tax is in some places 
paid by the tenant, and in other localities by the landlord; 
have this stated in the lease. 

. Before having the gas turned on, have the meter 

meter examined, that you may not have to pay for gas 
before gas that your predecessor has consumed. 
" ^ If all these things are strictly attended to at 

the proper time, they may save you a world of an- 
noyance in the future. 

For the benefit of those who may build their own homes 
a few suggestions are given. There is no intention of hav- 



SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME 3 

ing these suggestions take the place of an architect; but it 
is hoped that they will be a help to the would-be builder, in 
seeing more clearly than he otherwise would what are the 
essential and what the secondary considerations in the foun- 
dation and structure of a house. 

SIZE AND STYLE OF THE HOUSE 

In planning a building, its special uses must be considered. 
The house intended for a home should be made as conve- 
nient, sanitary, and attractive as possible. The 
style of the house depends upon the location. The ^ i^S^n 
house built in the city or suburbs would, of course, npon ityie 
be quite different from that built in the open coun- ^J^, 
try. The amount of money one is able to devote 
to the building of the home must largely decide questions 
of size, architecture, etc. 

The simpler the style of architecture, if the lines are 
good, the more pleasing the effect will be. 

Sleeping-rooms should never be planned on the first floor. 

Even in the smallest and cheapest houses there should 
invariably be a chamber, or open space, between the roof 
and the story below it. Rooms with no intermediate space 
between them and the roof are apt to be very much like 
ovens in the hot weather of summer. 

Small houses built with low, broken roof -lines are pictur- 
esque, but the sleeping-rooms are not likely to be comfortable. 
Roofs built in such a style, besides being more expensive 
at the start, are more apt to leak than the plainer ones. 

A house built with thick walls will be cool in 
summer and warm in winter. "^of tS^ 

Every human being is entitled to some space waUi. 
where he can have absolute privacy for a few hours 
each day. Houses should be planned to give each person a 
separate sleeping-room. It is better to have fewer parlors 
and more bedrooms. 



4 HOME ECONOMICS 

The finish of the walls, ceilings, floors, and all 
^ml^iwd woodwork in the house should be as simple as 
woodwork, possible; then there will be fewer places for dust 
to lodge and less chance for disease-germs to de- 
velop, the expense of building will be lessened, and the work 
of the housekeeper simplified. 

THE SKELETON AND CIRCULATORY SYSTEM OP THE HOUSE 

A modern house might be likened to an animal organism, 
the framework being the skeleton, and the plumbing, flues, 
heating-pipes, etc., being the circulatory system. 

If this part of the house is carefully outlined before any 

work is done, it will save much time, labor, and expense in 

the construction of the building. What is of 

tanoeo^ut- ^*^^^ greater consequence, every pipe, flue, and 

lining wire will be placed in the right position and will 
"^^ be surrounded and supported by the proper ma- 
terial. There will be no tearing out of masonry 
here, or cutting of floors and walls there— a process of 
remedying mistakes that often means that heating-pipes 
are placed in too close contact to woodwork, and that the 
spaces around plumbing are not properly finished. 

When there is a clear mental picture of the completed 
house, it will be possible to dissect it and leave bare the 
skeleton and circulatory system. Two sets of plans should 
then be made, one for the framework, piping, and wiring, 
and the other for the completed building. 

Having decided upon the whole amount of 
tiveMflt of nioney to be expended upon the house, allow a 
foondation, generous portion for the foundation, frame, chim- 
^ ^^etcf*' ^®ys> plumbing, heating, and ventilating. Do this 
even if the finish must be very plain in conse- 
quence. No beauty of finish will compensate for a poor 
foundation, shaky frame, and unsanitary plumbing and heat- 
ing arrangements. 



SOME ESSENTIAI^ OF THE HOME 



6 



Foundation-walls 



Cellar 



First floor 



<( 



<( 



« 



« 



Make the skeleton plan somewhat in this style: 

Material. 

Depth below the ground. 

Height above the ground. 

Breadth. 

Openings for windows, doors, etc. 

Ventilating-pipes, cold-air box, etc. 

Bottom, subsoil, drain, kind of floor. 
Connections with gas-pipes. 

water-pipes. 

sewer-pipes. 
Cold room. 
Fuel-bins. 
Furnace. 

Closet for preserves, etc. 
Laundry, water-closet (if there is one). 
Foundation for chimneys. 

Chimneys— openings. 

Position for pipes from furnace or other 

heating appliances. 
IPosition for water-pipes. 

waste- or soil-pipes. 

ventilators. 

bell-wires. 

windows. 

doors. 

stairs. 

closets. 
Follow this plan for the other floors. 



THE SITUATION AND FOUNDATION OF THE HOUSE 

When deciding to build a house, the first consideration 
should be its situation with respect to the influence on the 
health of the family. 



6 HOME ECONOMICS 

The second consideration may be the character of the 
neighborhood, and convenience to business and other inter- 
ests and pleasures. 

Light, sunshine, pure air, and dryness are the most im- 
portant factors in maintaining the healthful condition of 
the house, and they should be supplied in abundance. 

Dampness, coming from the soil under or sur- 
^Si*° rounding the house, is a source of danger, giving 
from BoiL rise to consumption, rheumatism, malaria, and kin- 
dred maladies. 

The nature of the soil on which a house is built is a most 
important question. The purest soil consists almost wholly 
of mineral matter intermixed with air and water. 

Vegetable matter and animal matter are fre- 
^^^h^* quently mingled with the soil. Warmth and mois- 
cauefor- ture produce decomposition in animal and vege- 
matioxi of table substances, and during the process of de- 

nonons o jr 

gases. composition noxious gases are given oii. These 
gases circulate through the porous earth, and 
when warmed rise, and, mingling with the air, are taken 
into the system with every breath we draw. 

These poisonous gases are diluted with pure air, and 
therefore work so slowly in the system that we do not realize 
the damage that is being done until illness develops. Even 
then we are ready to attribute the cause to anything rather 
than to the dampness and poisonous gases that come from 
cellars, drains, cesspools, swampy land, and decaying animal 
and vegetable substances in and about our habitations. 

If the earth under the house is damp and filled with 
noxious gases, they will naturally rise and permeate the 
whole house, floors, doors, and walls being no 
of^an! protection against them. 

All cellars built on clay soil should be drained. 
The best method of doing this is to dig a trench, slanted 
slightly, in which earthen pipes, properly joined, should be 



SOME ESSENTIALS OP THE HOME 7 

laid. These pipes must be covered with at least two feet 
of clay, well packed. 

The floor of the cellar should be constructed with the 
utmost care. No matter what the soil under the floor may 
be, there is always danger from the gases which 
will circulate through it. The covering of the ofoeUar[ 
floor should be of some substance that will effectu- 
ally obstruct the passage of the gases rising from the subsoil. 

Many of the best authorities on sanitary questions are of 
the opinion that a thick bed of clay, well packed, is the very 
best material for a cellar floor. The one objection to this 
is that the clay, adhering to the shoes of every one who 
walks over it, is likely to be carried into other parts of the 
house. For this reason it is well to have the clay floor 
covered with a layer of cement. 

With the subdrain and the clay floor under the cement, 
the cellar should be dry and sweet, and, as a consequence, 
the whole house will be in a good sanitary condition. 

THE FOUNDATION-WALLS 

Next in importance to the soil on which the house is built, 
and the drainage, come the foundation-walls of the house. 
They should be so built that there will be no danger of 
settling because of the instability of the ground. The 
foundation itself must be constructed in such a manner that 
there may be no possibility of dampness being drawn into 
the walls. The subdrain already described will 
take away the greater part of the moisture from thef<^L 

the soil. ticn for 

A deep, broad trench should be dug for the '^^ 
cellar walls. The bottom of this should be packed 
with a thick bed of clay, as was suggested in making the 
cellar floor. Over this should be put a layer of coarse broken 
stone, the spaces between the fragments being filled with 



8 HOME ECONOMICS 

crushed stone. The whole surface should be made even, and 
finally covered with mortar and cement. This foundation 
will give a solid support for the walls of the cellar. 

All cellar walls should be thick. This is essential for 
the proper support of the house, and, in addition, keeps out 
heat in summer and frost in winter. In building the cellar 
walls, every precaution should be taken to make them im- 
pervious to moisture. 

idffhtiiiff '^^® height of the walls above the ground is 
iSveoL important. They should extend a sufficient dis- 
^^ ^^ tance above ground to admit of windows at least 
two and a half feet high. This will insure the 
thorough lighting and ventilation of the cellar, and the 
raising of the first floor at least three feet from the ground. 
(Note.— In some parts of the country, as in a number of 
the Southern States, for instance, the land is so low that 
cellars are out of the question. In such cases the founda- 
tion-timbers of the house rest upon brick or stone piers. 
The supports are far enough apart to allow thorough venti- 
lation under the house.) 

There should be cellar windows on all sides of 

snn^^ if ^^^ house, if the house is detached. If it is in a 

possible, block, of course these windows are limited to two 

sides only. Piazzas should not be placed in such 

a position as to exclude all sun from the cellar. 

The more smoothly and completely the walls and ceilings 
of the cellar are finished, the easier they will be to keep 
clean. The ceilings should be lathed and plastered. 

The uses to which the cellar is put depend upon 
ceUar. *^® locality in which one lives and the manner of 
living. In town houses the fuel is usually kept 
here. In many country houses all the fuel, except the fur- 
nace coal, is kept in sheds on the ground floor. 

When the fuel is kept in the cellar, it should be stored 
in bins placed as near as possible to the point of consump- 



SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME 9 

tion. For example, the furnace coal should be as near as 
possible to the furnace, and the range and grate coal near 
the stairs. Bins should be large enough to con- 
tain the full yearly supply of coal, and they should f ^^f 
be dry and well lighted. *^'$S3. 

Every cellar in which there is a furnace should 
have a cold room partitioned off from the main room. 

A good plan for the cold room is as follows: Take one 
comer of the cellar in which there is a window (two windows 
would be still better); a northeast or northwest 
comer is most desirable for this room. Inclose i^J^ 
a square with walls of masonry, leaving a gen- 
erous opening for the door and a small space for a window 
which may be opened and closed at will. Divide this room 
into two parts, using well-joined boards or masonry for the 
wall, and again leaving generous space for a daor. In any 
case, have strong supports of some kind on which broad slate 
shelves may rest. If the walls are of masonry, narrow ledges 
of stone or brick may be arranged to project from them. 
If wood has been used, broad, smooth, wooden cleats may 
be fastened to the walls. In the inner room a strong piece 
of joisting should be fastened firmly across the room and 
about two feet from the ceiling. Several large meat-hooks 
may be driven into this joist, on which may be hung joints 
of meat, hams, poultry, etc. This inner room may be used 
for storing meats, fish, fmits, vegetables, and all foods that 
have an odor. 

In the outer cold room milk, butter, and inodorous foods 
may be kept. These cold rooms should be placed as near 
as possible to the cellar stairs; if the whole length of the 
cellar must be traversed to get to them, they will not be used 
as freely as they should. 

The windows of these rooms should be supplied with 
screens of thin cheese-cloth to keep out all particles of dust; 
these would be in addition to the coarse- and fine-wire 



10 



HOME ECONOMICS 




Fig', z. 

A. first room; B, inner room; C, door into cellar; D. door 
connecting the two rooms; S, S. S, windows; E, joist with 
meat-hooks; F, table; G, shelves. 



screens with which all the cellar windows should be pro- 
tected against thieves, flies, and small animals. 

Each room should 
have, besides the win- 
dows, a small opening 
through the outer wall, 
screened with fine wire, 
and covered with fine 
cheese-cloth. This will 
insure ventilation in cold 
weather when the win- 
dows are closed. The 
doors of both rooms 
should be wide enough to admit a large barrel with ease. 

A CLOSET FOR PRESERVES AND SIMILAR SUPPLIES 

Another useful contrivance in the furnace-heated house 
is a closet for storing preserves and other articles that 
should not be kept in a hot cellar, nor yet in a room where 
there is danger of freezing. 

This closet may be built of wood and placed in any part 
of the cellar. It should be well made, and fitted with broad, 
smooth shelves that may be cleaned with ease. 

GENERAL PLAN OF THE HOUSE 



A skeleton somewhat like the following one will save 
changes, expense, and annoyance: 

1. Cost. 

2. Area of first fioor. 

3. Rooms and closets on first fioor. 

4. Rooms and closets on second fioor. 

5. Number of attic rooms, if any, and their ar- 
rangement and finish. 



OutUne of 

what is 

needed in 

the house. 



SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME 11 

6. Amount of plumbing, and its location. 

7. Number of chimneys, and their location. 

8. Number of open fireplaces* 

9. Plan for stairs. (They should be broad and easy, and 
the back stairs should be free from turns.) 

10. Arrangement of the rooms on all the floors. (This 
should be planned so that those used most shall ^^ 
have the best exposure to the sun. Halls should 

be arranged so that they may not be simply passageways, but 
healthful and cheerful meeting-places.) 

11. Location of windows, doors, and closets. (These 
should be planned, after the location of the rooms is fixed, 
so that they may give the greatest amount of 

light, sunshine, and au-.) dS?? wd 

Doors and closets should be so placed that they oloseti. 
will break up the wall-space as little as possible. 

Ample space should be allowed in bedrooms for bed, 
dressing-case, and large wash-stand— for it is to be hoped 
that in our sanitary house there will be no set basins in the 
sleeping-rooms. 

Plan to have all the rooms and the hall on the lower floor 
connect. 

The library should be well lighted and have ample wall- 
space for bookcases. It is a good arrangement 
to have a window on one side of the room above ^^^^ 
the low bookcases, the greatest length of this 
window extending horizontally. The glass should be of a 
soft, warm color. The light coming through glass tinted a 
deep yellow is almost like sunlight, very much 
softened. doStwd 

The dining-room should be one of the most sideboard 
cheerful rooms in the house. In building, the iJji^^ni. 
cost of putting in corner closets and a simple 
sideboard will not be great, if one is satisfied with plain, 
substantial work. The arranfi:ement of bits of china and 



12 HOME ECONOMICS 

glass in these will be sufficient decoration. Of course, if 
one is building a handsome house, and has the means to 
spend on fine carvings, the dining-room and library are the 
rooms where such work is appropriate and satisfactory. A 
bay-window in the dining-room will admit of a few plants— 
the most attractive thing one can have in this room. 

Let the vestibule and entrance-hall be as spacious as your 
means will permit. The hall gives character to the house. 

Nothing in make-up and finish of any other part 

Vestibule of the house can atone for a cramped and badly 

entrance- lighted hall. Somewhere on the first floor there 

haU. should be a closet for wraps, umbrellas, overshoes, 

etc. With such a place for putting away the 
outdoor garments, it is possible to make the hall a pleasant 
reception-room. 

The staircase, wherever placed, should be broad and easy 
to mount, with at least two wide landings to break its 

length. The back staircase should be built for 

Stain^ases j^g proper use— the passing up and down for the 

front performance of the regular work of the house, 

and for carrying furniture, baggage, etc., from 
one floor to another. For these purposes the stairs should 
be straight, of an easy incline, and well lighted. As a rule 
the reverse is the case. 

THE KITCHEN AND PANTRIES 

Last, but not least, plan carefully for the kitchen and 
pantries. The kitchen should be large enough to be com- 
fortable as to temperature and ventilation. Arrange it so 
that nearly all the work of cooking, dish-washing, etc., may 
be done within an area of one hundred square feet. A 
rough plan is given here of kitchen, pantries, back hall, and 
stairs, that may be suggestive of the method of connecting 
the different points of work closely and systematically. (See 



SOME ESSENTIALS OP THE HOBiE 



13 



Fig. No. 2.) The kitchen should not be so large as to 
make the work of keeping it clean a burden, nor so small 
that it cannot be well ventilated and kept fairly cool. 

If the plan given is followed, all the work of cooking, 
serving, and dish-washing can be confined to a small portion 
of the kitchen. At the same time the room is sufficiently 
large to insure a comfortable at- 
mosphere, and there will always be 
a clear, orderly space, which will be 
a comfort and convenience when 
extra work is to be done. 

The woodwork in the kitchen 
should be very plain 
and it should be fin- 
ished in oil. There 
should be no grooves 
to hold dust or mois- 
ture. The walls may 
be painted, or they 
may be covered v/ith 
one of the papers 
that can 
be wash- 
ed.When 
one can 
afford it, 
tiling is 



8* 



K 




M 




N 



H, kitchen; A. B, china-closet and pantry; C, cold pantry; D, back hall; E, F, 

e-Doard: M, table; N, dresser; O. ta~ . 
shelf above for clock, etc.; Q, back stairs; R, cellar stairs; S, S, S, S, S« windows; U, 



. ^ . closets for cleaning-appliances 

tne most K> sink; L, draining-Doard:_M, table; N, dresser 



Fijf . a. 

pantry; C 
and out-door garments;1, g^-nngc;J, coal-ran^e; 
'resser; O, tablejJP,^ chest of drawers with 

, . , Jl. cell 

SatlSiaC- ^°°^ ^^^° front hall; V, door into back hall 

tory finish for the lower part of the walls, say for a space 

of from four to six feet. This is an expensive finish at the 

beginning; but when it is remembered that the 

first cost is the only outlay, and that the tiles will w5ls.^' 

last as long as the house stands, it will be seen 

that they are not an extravagant investment. The blue-and- 



14 HOME ECONOMICS 

white glazed Dutch tiles are especially adapted for a kitchen. 

Yellow tiles will give a warm tone, and when the kitchen is 

on the north side, or not well lighted, as is the case in many 

houses in city blocks, this color is advisable. 

The floors of kitchens, pantries, back halls, and stairs 

should be of hard wood, finished in oil, or stained 

"* and varnished. Such floors are easy to keep clean, 

and there is no temptation to water-soak them. 

The kitchen windows should be large, and should lower 
from the top with ease. The screens should be 
"^ *^" made to cover the entire window. There ought 
to be a flue in the chimney to carry off gases and odors. 

A generous sink and ample table-room save much break- 
age and lighten the labor in the kitchen. The sink should 
be broad, and the water-faucets should be set 
well up and back. From my own observation, it 
seems as if the greater part of the breaking and nicking of 
dishes is done by striking the articles against the water- 
faucets. In a narrow sink the breakage is much 
ofdShM? greater than in a broad one. When it is possi- 
ble to avoid it, the kitchen sink should not be 
made of wood. Those made of soapstone, and other kinds 
of stone, are excellent. Iron sinks are good, except that 
they rust easily. If wooden sinks must be used, they should 
be lined with zinc or some other metallic substance. The 
porcelain-lined sinks are sanitary and easily cared for. The 
sink should never be inclosed. The waste pipe should be 
covered with a fairly fine strainer, which should be kept 
screwed securely in place. 

. . Every sink should have at one end a long 

^^!^' draining-shelf . This shelf should be well grooved 

and inclined slightly toward the sink. If there 

is space to allow it, have a broad shelf or table at the other 

end. A low movable table may be kept under this. 

In planning the kitchen, leave space for a gas-stove near 



SOME ESSENTIAI^ OF THE HOME 



15 



the range. A small opening should be made in the chimney 
for connecting the gas-stove with a pipe which carries off 
the products of combustion. 



Pantries 
and ohina- 

dOMtf. 



PANTRIES 

A great economy of time, strength, and materials is 
gained by having ample and well-arranged pantries. To 
prevent sounds and odors reaching the dining- 
room from the kitchen, the communication be- 
tween these two rooms should be through several 
doors. The plan of pantry and china-closet given 
below will be found to combine convenience for work and 
protection against 
odors and sounds. 

Opening from the 
dining-room is the 
china-closet. Here 
are kept the fine china 
and glass, the table- 
ware and silver in 
daily use, and any 
table appliances one 
may wish to have 
convenient to the 
dining-room. This 
pantry is lighted and 
aired by a small win- 
dow. 

Connecting this pantry with the kitchen, and opening 
from it, is another pantry, which is a little larger than the 
first, which contains drawers, closets, and shelves for dishes 
and such supplies as crackers, sugar, vinegar, oil, and salt, 
which one likes to have near the dining-room. Here the 
tableware that must be taken into the kitchen may be kept. 




Fig. 3- 

A, china-closet; B, pantry; C. door into kitchen; D, door 
between china-closet and pantrv; E, door into dining-room; 
F, sink; G, table with shelves above; H, broad shelves with 
closets above and below; I, draininf-board; J, J, drawers 
with closets above; K; broad shelves with closets above and 
below; L, drawers with shelves above; M, broad shelf with 
closets below and shelves above; N, drawers with closets 
above; S, S, windows. 



16 



HOME ECONOMICS 



p 


/ 


\o- 


Q. 






4 


^^1 


1 




A sink with hot and cold water is provided for the care of 
the finest tableware, and there is a large stationary table which 
will be found indispensable in the table service, dish- 
washing, and arrangement 
of cold dishes. This room 
is lighted and ventilated 
by a window. 

At the other side of the 

kitchen is a cold pantry (C), 

where the groceries 

Fig. 4- and cooked food may 

C, cold pantry; O, refrigerator-opening for ice; P, P, P, shelves; "U^k af nrarl A rkl q n niP 

, table; R; shelves with drawers below; S, window; T, T. locked "*= » UUrtJU . J\ pidll Ui 

**^**** this is given below. 

A closet where the brooms, brushes, and all appliances 
for cleaning the house may be kept is a necessity. 

This closet should have one or two broad shelves on which 
to place the articles used in cleaning, and the cloths for 
covering furniture 
and pictures when 
sweeping, etc. There 
should be two rows 
of hooks, one above 
the other, on which 
to hang brushes, 
brooms, etc. (E) Fig- 
ure 5 shows the ar- 
rangement of such 
a closet. Next it is 
shown another closet 
(jF), where wraps for ^' ""^-i^-^^^^- 
every-day use, overshoes, umbrellas, etc., may be kept. 

A dresser is almost a necessity in the kitchen. It is cer- 
tainly a most convenient and pleasant arrangement, and 
well merits its name " dresser," for it is an adornment as 
well as a most useful piece of furniture. 




Fig. 5- 

E, closet for deaning-appliances; F, closet for wraps, etc.; T, 
hooks; U, shelves: X, low shelf for overshoes, etc.; Y; Y, hooks; 



SOME ESSENTIAI^ OF THE HOME 17 

The dresser should be made of the same kind of wood ae 
that in which the kitchen is finished. It should be long 
enough to divide into several parts. The following plan 
may be modified to suit varying tastes and needs. The 
height of the one suggested in the diagram is about eight 
feet; length, six feet; 
depth of bottom closet, 
twenty inches; depth of 
upper closet, fourteen 
inches. 

Between the upper 
and lower closets have 
two drawers, and slid- 
ing shelves between the 
drawers and broad shelf. 
A is the sliding shelf, B 
the broad shelf, G the 
drawer. 

The shelves in the 
upper closet should be 
grooved, so that dishes 
and plates may be stood 
on end upon them. ^ ^ 

Close the closet with 
sliding glass doors. 

If the kitchen is so arranged that there is_ no place for 
such a dresser, one may have, at least, a comer cupboard. 
Cut No. 7 gives a plan for another kind of dresser, which 
supplies more close cupboards and drawers. 

MATERIALS U3BD IN BUILDING 

Naturally, the most durable building-materials are stone 
and brick, but owing to the expense of these materials 
and the cost of handling them, wood is generally used for 



18. HOME ECONOMICS 

houses of moderate price built in suburbs and country 
places. 

Whatever the material employed, it should be of such 

quality and treated in such a manner as to prevent the walls 

from absorbing or retaining dampness. Bricks absorb 

moisture readily. This is particularly true of a 

poor quality of brick. Therefore, when bricks are 

used for the outer walls of a house, only those of the best 

grade should be employed, and the finished walls should be 

made impervious to 

moisture by a coat 

of good paint. 

If wood is the ma- 
terial used in the 
structure, it should be 
thoroughly seasoned 
{see " Woods ") and 
free from sapwood. 
Every piece that is 
exposed to wind and 
rain should be pro- 
tected by paint, oil, 
or some wood pre- 
servative. In the in- 
terior of the house all 
the wood finish should 
FiE.7- be protected by var- 

nish, oil, wax, or paint. 
Wood that ia used on the outside of the house should be 
put on so that water cauTiot lodge in or uiider it. It often 
happens that rain- and snow-water work their way 
^^^ under shingles and clapboards, the flooring of 
in wood, piazzas or steps, and in a short time cause the 
wood to decay. This decay is contagious, and 
in time large patches of roof, flooring, or joists are destroyed. 



SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME 19 

The best material and good workmanship will almost insure 
against this kind of loss and annoyance. 

Any woodwork that comes near the soil, such as steps, piaz- 
zas, etc., should be constructed in such a way that thorough 
ventilation between the woodwork and the earth is assured. 

The laying and finish of the floors of the house is particu- 
larly important. The wood for this purpose 
should be perfectly seasoned, and the boards so The laying 
well matched that neither dust nor water can flnShing 
pass through the joinings. They should be offloon. 
wholly of rift wood, if quartered wood is not 
used (I am not speaking now of inlaid or parquetry floors). 

All floors that are not to be covered with carpets or 
matting should be finished in such a manner that they will 
be pleasant to look upon and easy to care for. (See 
"Woods,'' "Rift," and "Slash.") 

A badly finished floor is a continual source of annoyance, 
while, on the other hand, the plainest floor of thoroughly 
seasoned and matched boards, properly cared for 
and well finished, will be a joy forever. wow^ 

Doors and window-sashes should be substantially sasheB. 
and carefully made, and of the best-seasoned wood. 

The leaders and water-pipes used on the outside of the 
house should, in cold climates, be made so that they will not 
be injured readily by ice. Corrugated pipes, 
when water freezes in them, do not burst as J^^^^, 
easily as smooth ones. pipes. 

As to the painting, it should be borne in mind 
that durability is attained in proportion to the amount of 
lead used. For this reason white, red, and drab paints 
are the best, as a great deal of lead may be 
employed in mixing them. The surface should be ^J^^ot 
perfectly dry before paint is applied. If the paint of hon»e. 
is laid on a damp surface, it will blister and come 
off in flakes. The most suitable time for painting the out- 



20 HOME ECONOMICS 

side of a house is in the autumn, when the weather is clear 
and cold. 

If the finish of the woodwork of the interior of the house 
is in the natural wood, it should, when possible, be rubbed 
smooth with sandpaper before being oiled or var- 
^?^^^^ nished. If it is varnished, several coats should 
woodwork, be applied, each coat being rubbed down. All 
of these details add to the first expense; but 
they will pay in the end, because of the gain in beauty and 
durability. 

The wood used in all kinds of closets should be free from 
pitch, and,' if painted or varnished, so well done that there 
shall be no danger of articles sticking to it. Never oil the 
woodwork in closets. 

THE INTERIOR FINISH OP THE HOUSE 

So much depends upon the location, the style of house, 
furnishing, and mode of living, that a few suggestions are 
all that can be given on this subject. 

The interior finish of the house should be in harmony 

with the location, style, and furnishing. If the house is 

exposed to strong light and sunshine, the finish 

^®?**' should be soft in tone, and free from strong or 

flhouidhaiv pronounced colors. On the other hand, in a city 

'^i"® block the light and sunshine do not come into all 

tion, etc parts of the house either abundantly or strongly. 

In such a house the finish should be of a kind 

that will reflect warmth and light, not absorb it. For 

somber, sunless rooms and halls the floors, walls, 

lightness ceilings, and woodwork should be as light and 

warmth of warm in tone as possible. Yellow tones light 

color. up a room and give a sense of warmth. Red 

gives a sense of warmth, but does not brighten 

a room as yellow does. All shades of green are cold, but 



SOME ESSENTIAI^ OF THE HOME 21 

the lighter they are the cooler the effect will be. Blue is 
also coldy but less so than green. Browns are somewhat 
neutral, but give an impression of warmth rather than cold. 
Olive greens in which the yellow predominates are soft, 
warm, and restful colors, which may be used in any light or 
climate. 

The general tone in the finish of rooms that have a north- 
em exposure, or that are not well lighted, should be either 
in dull reds or yellows. 

In finishing the walls of a room, it should always be re- 
membered that they are to serve as a background for pic- 
tures, furniture, and hangings. For this reason they should 
be made as soft and neutral as possible. Large 
and set designs, and pronounced colors, are diffi- a back- 
cult things to deal with in furnishing a room, ground for 
Of course the most sanitary finish is the calci- ^^Ja*** 
mined or painted walls, but as a rule they are 
cold and hard. A paper in plain color and soft tints never 
offends or tires the eyes. Cartridge-papers are very satis- 
factory on this account. 

The back of very cheap paper will sometimes make a 
good wall-covering. This is particularly true when the back 
is a soft 6cru or buflf. 

A plain finish is especially desirable for the walls of halls, 
parlors, libraries, and dining-rooms. Light papers with 
dainty colorings and designs are appropriate for bedrooms. 
Papers with set figures or geometrical designs 
should not be used on the walls of a sleeping- paper's, 
room. If one should happen to be ill for any 
length of time in such a room, these designs would be a con- 
tinual torture to the eye. The background of a paper used 
in a sleeping-room should be of a soft, delicate shade of 
cream,— or gray is good,— and over this might be running 
vines, or fiowers either single, clustered, or festooned; a 
frieze of sedgy grass, fiags, etc., would be a pleasing 



22 HOME ECONOMICS 

finish; and, ill or well, one would rarely tire or be annoyed by 
the designs or tones in such a wall-covering. 

If the house is heated by steam or hot water, 
piadngof the pipes and radiators that are brought into a 
pipes'lmd room should be made as inconspicuous as possible, 
radiators. They should be placed where they will not take 
up too much wall-space. Sometimes the most 
desirable part of a room is spoiled by these ugly pipes. 

THE CHIMNEY AND FURNACE-PIPES 

The first considerations in building a chimney should be 
safety and the efficiency of the draft. 

In the accounts of the burning of dwelling-houses, the 
cause given for the origin of the fire, in a great majority of 
cases, is a defective flue. This applies to all classes of 
houses, from the cheapest to the most costly. Certainly in 
this day materials and workmanship ought to be of so high 
an order that it would be almost an impossibility to have 
fires from such a cause. 

The draft depends, to some extent, upon location. When 

. practicable, the chimney should be carried high 

cWmney, enough for the top to be free from all obstruction. 

A chimney whose top is overshadowed on one or 

more sides by high walls will not draw when the wind is in 

certain directions. 

In building fireplaces, every precaution should be taken 

to preclude all danger of the woodwork taking fire. This 

may be accomplished by surrounding them with thick walls 

of brick or other masonry. Deep fireplaces do not heat a 

room as well as shallow ones, except at the ex- 

plaoM. pense of a great deal of fuel. Unless one lives 

in the countrj^ where wood is cheap, the fireplace 

should not be very large. The back should slant forward 

as it rises; this tends to throw the heat into the room. 



SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME 23 

Every fireplace should, be provided with a damper that may 
be opened or closed at will. The best finish for the interior 
is fire-brick. A facing and hearth of glazed tiles is desirable, 
as they are clean and reflect the heat. 

Hot-air pipes, when passing through walls or floors, should 
be several inches from the woodwork. If such 
openings can be plastered, or the pipes wrapped ^^,lJuJ^ 
in asbestos, the danger of flre from this cause 
will be greatly diminished. Use every precaution here. 

THE PLUMBING 

The plumbing of the house should be of the best quality, 
as simple as possible in construction, and there should be no 
more of it than is actually necessary for the comfort and 
convenience of the family. Stationary basins with hot and 
cold water in the bedrooms, and bath-rooms con- 
nected with sleeping-rooms, lighten the labor of ^^t^*^ 
those doing the work of the household, and they 
are a great luxury; but they are dangerous things to have 
in or next to sleeping-rooms. It is better to have bath- 
rooms as far away from sleeping-rooms as possible, and to 
put generous, portable wash-stands and bowls in the sleeping- 
rooms. 

There should be the least possible horizontal piping laid 
in the house. Hence, bath-rooms, closets, etc., should be 
placed, when practicable, in locations on the dif- 
ferent floors that are relatively the same. All piS^. 
plumbing should be in sight, and the traps so 
placed that they may be opened and examined with ease. 

The trapping is one of the most important constructions 
in plumbing, and only traps of the simplest form 
should be used. A trap is a U-shaped bend in a ^^^ 
pipe. It must always contain a sufficient quantity 
of water to extend an inch or more above the bend. This 



24 



HOME ECONOMICS 





Flg.S. 

A, B, commoo traps; C. D, modifications of A and B— screw 
caps, as shown at a, beings added for cleanine oat the traps; E, F, 



water is termed the seal, and its office is to prevent the 
escape of sewer-gas from the pipe into the room. There 

are many kinds of 

S^^ D rL sewer-gas traps, but 

_^3^U/^ -iTN fflh- they all aim at the 

\ZJ same result — the 

water-seal. 

The soil-pipe must 
be thoroughly ven- 
tilated, and the ven- 
tilating-pipe should 
be carried well up 

caps, as shown at a, beings added for cleantnjr out the traps; ti, t, ■ . . , « « 

G, ▼entilating-traps with air-pipes at 6 leading to the exterior of aDOVO txlO rOOl, DO- 
abuildinsr. 

yond all possible 
chance of foul air being drawn into the house through the 
windows. 

On the size of the soil-pipe depends hiuch of its efficiency. 
It should never be so large that it cannot be thoroughly 
flushed— that is, filled with water, so that every part of it is 
cleansed as the water flows through. A four-inch pipe is 
the size generally used; but if the flow of water is not abun- 
dant, a smaller pipe would be better. The overflow-pipes 
of the bowls and bath-tubs of old-style plumbing 
^wttiT" ^^® "^^st difficult to flush or disinfect. This kind 
of overflow-pipe is still used in cheap plumbing, 
but the most advanced plumbers now have much better 
arrangements, the stand-pipe for bath-tubs being one of 
the simplest and best. Naturally, every year there are new 
appliances, or improvements on old forms, and builders 
should make every effort to get those that are 
best from the sanitary point of view. 

Each water-closet should be provided with a 

separate flushing-tank which will hold at least 

three gallons of water. The flushing-pipe of the 

water-closet should never have direct communication with 

the main tank. When this communication exists there is 



Flashing 
of pipes 

in water- 
closets. 



SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME 25 

always danger of contaminating the water supplying boiler, 
bowls, baths, etc. 

When there is but one bath-room in the house, there 
should be a water-closet on the first or second floor. It is 
desirable to have a bath-room for the servants, if practicable. 

A small room on the first floor with bowl and water-closet 
will be found a great convenience. 

The placing of the pipes should be studied with great 
care. When it can be avoided they should not 
be put on the north side of the house. A plan of Care in 
the plumbing should be kept in every house, and pl»<?ng of 
the housekeeper should make herself familiar 
with its details. 

The universal motto in regard to plumbing should be: 
The best, the simplest, and the least possible. 

I want here to mention two books which would prove of 
great value to the householder, if studied with care. They 
are both so clearly and simply written that any 
amateur can understand them. One is " How to ganitatioS. 
Drain a House,'' by George E. Waring, Jr., and 
the other is " Home Sanitation,'' edited by Ellen H. Richards 
and Marion Talbot. 

COUNTRY HOUSES— DRAINAGE AND EARTH-CLOSETS 

In communities where there are no water or sewerage 
systems, the problem of the disposal of the sewage is a 
serious one; but it should not be neglected or ignored, as is 
often the case. Owing to the habit, prevalent in many 
country places, of throwing all the slop-water of the house- 
hold upon the ground near the dwelling itself, poisonous 
gases are constantly being diffused, and the poison also 
filters through the earth from these points of deposit into 
the wells. I suppose it is no exaggeration to say that one 
half of the people living in country places suffer from im- 
paired health on this account. 



26 HOME ECONOMICS 

Earth has great purifying power. The dirtiest water, 
after filtering through a large area of earth, 
^pnSa«.* becomes comparatively pure. It takes time, how- 
ever, to accomplish this. 
All dirty water should be carried as far as possible from 
the house. When there is no other means of disposing of 
it than on the surface of the ground, drains 
tionof should be constructed of wellTJoined tiles, and 
dnunfor laid in a trench that has a slight downward in- 
'Sw.'^'" cline. The trench should be filled in with clay. 
The outlet of this drain may be on a piece of 
land distant from the house at least two hundred feet. 
Every particle of liquid refuse must go into this drain. 
When it is not possible to have a water-closet, an earth- 
closet should be constructed, with care to have 
dofli^' ^* ^^ sanitary as such things can be made. Each 
member of the household should be taught how 
to use the earth, and the necessity of keeping the earth- 
closet dry. 

This closet should be connected with the house only by a 
covered passage. It should be well lighted and ventilated. 
The vault must be shallow, with a bottom of well-packed 
clay. The board that shuts in the vault must be so ar- 
ranged that it can be easily removed, and it should have 
two openings cut in it for ventilation. 

The contents of the vault must be kept covered with fine, 
dry earth. If the earth is mixed with powdered charcoal, 
so much the better. A box of this mixture, and a small 
shovel, should be kept in the closet. The vault will have to 
be cleaned frequently. Chloride of lime, or quicklime, might 
be scattered in the vault occasionally. No liquid should 
ever be poured into the closet. The secret of keeping it 
in a sanitary condition consists in keeping it dry, and sprin- 
kling in dry earth every time it is used. 



CHAPTER II 

THE WATER-SUPPLY 

Situation and depth of well or spring. Methods of softening and purifying 

water. Tests for impurities in water. 

Do any of us ever realize how dependent we are on water 
for life and health? 

Water is the carrier of food throughout the whole system. 
Upon its purity life and health depend; if, on the 
contrary, it is impure, it carries with it disease, ^F^ 
and often death. neoesii^. 

It is the duty of every head of a family to see 
to it that the household is furnished with as pure water as 
possible. 

If the water is supplied to a town by a corporation, the 
chances are that it is as pure as it is possible to get within 
a reasonable distance. The great danger is from wells, 
either in town or country, or from bodies of water into which 
sewage flows. 

The general criterion of pure water is that which is " free 
from color, taste, or smell, and is cool, soft, 
bright, well aerated, and entirely free from de- of pniity. 
posit." 

This standard is correct as far as it goes, but the condi- 
tion it describes does not always indicate perfectly pure 
water. Water may have all these characteristics and yet 

27 



28 HOME ECONOMICS 

hold in solution poisons from decaying organic substances. 
Strictly speaking, no water is pure, except distilled water. 

Our supply of water comes from rivers, lakes, springs, 

and wells. These sources are fed by the rain and melting 

snows. Portions of these rain- and snow-waters 

Souroei of fl^^ directly from the surface of the earth into 

ply. rivers, lakes, springs, etc. Other portions filter 
through the soil. 

That which flows over the soil carries with it portions of 
the loose matter which it encounters in its rush to stream 
or pond. The water that sinks into the soil filters until it 
reaches well, spring, or subterranean stream. 

In its passage through the soil it may, and usually does, 
undergo many changes, all depending on what it finds in 
its travels. 

One of the characteristics of water is its solvent power. 
The purer and softer it is, the greater this power. In per- 
colating through the soil it dissolves many sub- 
Theiolyent gtances it finds there, and absorbs some of them. 

powor of 
water. On the other hand, clean soil— that is to say, 

soil free from any decaying organic substance, 
either animal or vegetable— has the power of purifying 
water, provided the bed of earth through which it per- 
colates is thick enough. 

The greatest danger of poison in water comes from the 

presence of decaying organic matter. The sources 

PoUn^on Qf ^hig pollution are many; but the most deadly, 

prevented, and it may be said the most common, are those 

which might be prevented. 

When the water-supply comes from wells or springs near 
a habitation, there is always a possibility of pollution, unless 
the surrounding soil is guarded with greatest care. All ref- 
use, dry or liquid, from houses, bams, and outhouses, if left 
where it can soak into the soil, will, if the spring or well 
is near enough, find its way into the water. This almost inva- 
riably means disease, and very often death. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY 29 

It would fill the souls of many good men and women with 
horror if they were told that they are slowly, but surely, 
poisoning their families and themselves with the filth which 
they throw upon the earth near what should be the sources 
of the purest physical life. The pile of manure 
but a few yards away from the well, the slop- ^^'^^^^^ 
water thrown on the ground near the well, the poUatl<m. 
badly constructed drain that allows a portion of 
the sewage to leak into the earth and in this way reach the 
water in the well— each of these carries its share of polluting 
matter. The heaps of decaying matter found about many 
houses are another source of contamination. It will be seen, 
then, that to keep the earth clean in the vicinity of the 
water-supply is of the greatest importance. 

Water drawn from marshy lands will always contain de- 
caying vegetable matter, and it should not be used for 
drinking purposes. 

Inorganic matter is also dissolved and taken up by water, 
which invariably contains traces of the inorganic substances 
over which it flows. Carbonate of lime (chalk) and sulphate 
of lime (gypsum) are the most common and abun- 
dant minerals found in water. It is the presence j^^J^Ji^ 
of these substances which gives us what we call water, 
•'hard'' water. Iron, phosphates, etc., are also 
found in water, according to the locality over which it flows. 
Air and carbonic-acid gas are always constituents of pure 
water. 

SITUATION AND DEPTH OF WELL OR SPRING 

From what has been said, there can be no doubt as to the 
importance of the location of the well or spring from 
which the house obtains its supply of water. It is Situation 
an imperative necessity that the well should be so ^^^^ 
placed that there is not a shade of a chance of 
pollution. 

The depth of the well is very important. A shallow well 



30 HOME ECONOMICS 

is always unsafe, because surface-water, before it has sunk 

through enough earth for purification, will filter 

Deptii of }ji(;q [i^ The walls of a well should be cemented 

SL? so as to prevent surface-water from soaking 

through them. 
As soft water has the power of dissolving lead in small 
quantities, this metal should not be used for water-pipes 
when it can be avoided. Water which has stood 
lead^pipes. ^^ ^^^ pipes for any length of time should never 
be used for drinking purposes or in the prepara- 
tion of food. It should be allowed to run long enough to 
empty the pipe before any is collected for use. 
There are several kinds of impurities: 

1. That which comes from organic substances, be it vege- 
table or animal. 

2. Inorganic matter, such as lime, iron, lead, etc. 

3. Water has considerable solvent powers, and as it flows 
over rocks and through beds of different kinds of soil it dis- 
solves both inorganic and organic substances. 

The purest known natural waters contain some foreign 
substances. 

METHODS OP SOFTENING AND PURIFYING WATER 

There are several methods of purifying water when it 

holds in solution or suspension so much foreign matter as 

to make it unhealthy or difiicult to use for do- 

^ui^Sm' "^©stic purposes. 

water. 1. One of the simplest and most commonly 

employed methods is to boil the water. This 

process practically kills all the organic life contained in the 

water; it also softens the water, if the hardness be temporary. 

2. Filtering the water purifies to some extent— that is, 
all substances held in suspension are filtered out; but it must 
be remembered that any substance held in solution passes 



THE WATER-SUPPLY 31 

through, so it is not possible to make hard water soft by 
filtration. 

All natural waters have dissolved in them carbon dioxid, 
oxygen, and nitrogen. Water absorbs about 
its own volume of carbon dioxid, about one The action 

of cftroon 

twenty-fifth of its own volume of oxygen, and diozid. 
a much smaller quantity of nitrogen. These 
gases give life, sparkle, and a suggestion of flavor to water. 
Carbon dioxid has the property of dissolving lime. As 
the water charged with this gas flows over the beds of lime- 
stone and sulphate of lime (gypsum), it dissolves particles 
of the lime which is held in solution by the carbon dioxid, 
thus giving to the water the quality we call hardness. 

3. There are two kinds of hardness— temporary and per- 
manent. 

4. Temporary hardness is due to carbonates. Water flow- 
ing over a limestone district dissolves small portions of the 
lime which' is held in solution by the carbonic acid in the 
water. Now, if the carbonic acid be removed or given some- 
thing else to work upon, the lime in the water is precipitated. 
We see this when we boil water and a white crust is found 
on the vessel in which it was boiled. In Paris, a thick coat 
covers the interior of the vessel in which water is boiled in 
a day or two; even the cover of the saucepan will contain a 
coating of lime where the steam has condensed. 

5. When water is boiled for some time the carbonic-acid 
gas is driven off, and there is nothing to hold the lime in 
solution, so it drops out of the water. But this gas gives 
life to water, and by long boiling we lose this, and, naturally, 
as a beverage it is flat and unpalatable, and the beverages 
which we make from it are not so bright as those made with 
water which has been freshly boiled. 

If the water is poured several times from one vessel to 
another, it will reabsorb some of the gases, and the flavor 
will be improved. 



32 HOME EGONOMIGS 

One of the best methods of removing temporary hardness 
(that due to the carbonates) is what is known as Clark's 
nMnmH process. One tenth of lime-water is added to the 
%^!^^^ hard water— that is, one gallon of lime-water to 
l"«dne«i. every ten gallons of hard water. (See "Lime- 
Water.") 
Bemoying When the hardness is permanent it is softened 
^^^1^* by the addition of sal-soda. However, enough of 
this chemical cannot be used to soften the water 
employed for cooking purposes, but it is valuable as an agent 
for softening the water employed in washing and cleaning. 

When water contains organic matter, anything that will 

coagulate the albuminous substance in the water 

Jj"^i^"**f will tend to purify it. Alum, oak chips, and certain 

latioS'*" kinds of nuts have the property of coagulating 
albuminous matter, and the precipitate carries 
down other impurities. 

Water taken from marshy land, ponds, or rivers, in which 
decaying organic substances are dissolved, should be puri- 
fied by the addition of oak chips or alum. When the water 
becomes clear it should be filtered or strained. Use about 
eight grains of alum to a gallon of water; if the oak chips 
are used, a handful to about two gallons of water. 

When a filter is not employed in the kitchen, all the water 
used for drinking and cooking may be strained through a 
flannel bag— small bags with running-strings, which may be 
fastened on the faucet. They should be changed every day. 

TESTS FOR IMPURITIES IN WATER 

Church gives the following simple tests, which may be 
made in any kitchen, for impurities in water: 

"Boil one quart of the water to be tested 

ratiottT 1^ 2, porcelain dish, and then heat the dry resi- 

.due hotter and hotter. If the original residue 

is white and powdery in appearance, that is, so far, a good 



THE WATER-SUPPLY 33 

sign; but if it is partly white and partly yellowish or green- 
ish, and especially if there are gum-like stains around the 
residue, then, on heating these parts of the residue, we 
shall probably see them darken, fuse, and bum away in 
part, giving out fumes having a disagreeable smell. If 
the blackening is considerable, much organic matter is 
present; but if the smell is offensive (like burnt feathers), 
then it is certain that the organic matter is of animal origin, 
and is, therefore, more likely to be unwholesome, or even 
poisonous/' 

" If water contains substances derived from the decay of 
animal or vegetable matters, such as those in sewage and 
manure and the refuse of plants, then it is 
found that such a water will destroy the beau- By pep. 
tif ul purple color of a chemical substance called ©f potash, 
permanganate of potash. The reason for this 
is as follows: The decaying organic matter of the water 
attracts oxygen strongly when it is presented in certain 
states pr forms. Now, a solution of the above perman- 
ganate contains much oxygen just in the right state to be 
attracted and removed. By its removal from the perman- 
ganate the composition of that substance is altered and its 
color destroyed. The more organic matter in the water, 
the more permanganate will be decolorized. The test may 
be thus applied: Fill a clean white tea-cup with the water 
to be tested. Add about sixty drops of weak sulphuric acid; 
stir with a clean slip of window-glass. Now pour in enough 
of a weak solution of permanganate of potash to render the 
water a rich rose-color. Cover the cup with a clean glass 
plate. Now, if there be much organic matter in the water, 
the color will go in a few minutes, and more permanganate 
may be added, and still lose its color. It must be recollected, 
in using this test, that peaty matter and iron salts, which 
are not necessarily unwholesome, give the same results.'* 

"Nearly fill a clean tumbler with water, and then add 

8 



34 HOME EGONOMieS 

twenty drops of nitric acid, and five of a solution of ni- 
trate of silver O^nar caustic), or else a small crystal of 

that substance. Stir with a clean slip of glass, 
adi'*^ and if there is more than a slight bluish-white 

cloudiness, if there is a solid curdy substance 
found, then there is too much common salt in the water. 
It may be said. What harm is there in common salt? 
We answer. None in the common salt as such, but only 
in common salt as evidence of some kinds of pollution. 
We will explain. Common salt (chloride of sodium) does not 
occur in rain-water or pure well-water, except to the extent 
of a little over a grain per gallon. Of course there is 
more in waters from salt-bearing rocks and in waters near 
the sea. But generally,— at all events, in a chalk or lime- 
stone district,— where common salt is found in any quantity 
exceeding one and one half grains per gallon, which gives a 
mere cloudiness with nitrate of silver, the salt is derived 
from sewage— in other words, from the salt consumed in 
human food and voided chiefly with the urine. If a water 
be found to contain both organic matter and common salt, 
it is probably contaminated by house or town sewage. If 
organic matter be abundant, but accompanied by a smaller 
quantity of common salt, then the source of pollution is 
rather the excrement of farm animals than of man, or it 
may arise merely from vegetable refuse." 



CHAPTER III 

FURNISHING 

The hall. The dining-room. The library. The living-room. The parlor. 
The bedrooms. The kitchen. Kitchen utensils. Tinware. Ironware. 
Granite-ware. Woodenware. Earthenware. Stoneware. Miscella- 
neous. Ventilation. 

The furnishing of the house should be within one's means 
and in harmony with the structure. It is possible to furnish 
a home comfortably, and even elegantly, for the 
same sum that is often spent in producing the ^?^" 
most commonplace and uncomfortable results, famishmg. 
The beginners in housekeeping should, first of 
all, decide upon the amount of money they can afford to 
spend in furnishing; next they should make a list of the 
essentials; then another list of desirable accessories should 
be made out; finally, they should agree to buy the essentials 
first, to have them of as good material and workmanship as 
can be afforded, and to select form and colors that will be 
simi._3 and quiet rather than elaborate and striking. 

It is hardly possible to estimate the influence that the 
furnishing of a room has upon the feelings and character of 
the inmates. 

Every article in a room should have a reason for being 
there. The thing that supports real weight or pressure 
should have the appearance of being able to do so without 
any strain upon itself or danger to the object supported. 

35 



36 HOME ECONOMICS 

A chair or couch should look strong enough to sustain the 

weight of any one who sits on it. A table on which many 

^ articles are placed, as a five-o'clock tea-table, for 

tide of fur- example, should be broad and firm, and should not 

^nMhA ^^® *^® impression of being too small or too del- 
adapted to icate for its burden. On the contrary, the table 
its ipedal on which the fragile vase of flowers is placed is 
all the more appropriate and attractive if it is of 
a delicate, airy construction. 

Draperies should indicate that they are used to soften 
the light, replace doors, or give softness or color to some 

Pictures P^^t of the room. Pictures and ornaments are 
and omap to give pleasure to the ^ye, and they should be of 

^^ ' such a character, and arranged in such a manner, 
that they will accomplish this result. 

THE HALL 

It is the hall that gives the first impression of the home. 

Of course the furnishing of it must depend upon the style 

and size of the house and upon the character of 

T^. ^^"'^ the room. Oak is, as a rule, the most satisf ac- 
nuhixigof ^ _ ^ / x« ., , „ . ^ ., 

the halL tory wood to use here. If the hall is one of the 

narrow passageways so often found in city houses, 

a hall-stand, composed of seat, mirror, and umbrella-stand, 

and having several hooks to hang hats and wraps upon, is 

the extent of the furniture that can be allowed. 

If the size of the hall will permit, it is best to furnish it 

as a reception-room. In that case, a table, chairs, hall-settle 

or a plain sofa, mirror, pictures, and, if there is room, a 

small bookcase, will make a comfortable and charming room. 

A fireplace usually includes a mantel-shelf on which some 

ornaments may be arranged. A clock is always appropriate 

in a hall. The floor, if possible, should be of hard wood, 

and rugs may be laid on it here and there. 



FURNISHING 37 



THE DINING-ROOM 

The floor of this room should be of hard wood. The table 
and chairs must be well made and of generous size. It is 
impossible to arrange a narrow table in an ele- 
gant manner, and nothing is more uncomforta- ^^|S!^^^ 
ble than small, unsubstantial dining-room chairs. ings. 
When the sideboard is built into the side of 
the room, the table and chairs will be all the necessary 
furniture. If there is no sideboard, and the expense of 
one cannot be incurred, a sideboard-table, which may be 
covered with a pretty cloth, will do to hold the odd bits of 
tableware one always wants in the dining-room. A mantel- 
piece and one or two cupboards give an opportunity of 
displaying pretty bits of porcelain and glass to the best 
advantage. Nothing one may put in the dining-room will 
add such brightness and charm as closets or cabinets, 
through the glass doors of which the brilliant glass and 
china may be seen. Growing plants and pictures are always 
a pleasing addition to this room, which should be one of the 
pleasantest in the house. 

THE LIBRARY 

The ideal library is a room in a quiet corner of the house, 
with bookcases built around the walls, not too high, so that 
the titles of the books may be read by a person 
standing on the floor. As wall-space is of great ^^^ 
value in this room, there should be only one large 
window. The principal light should come from windows 
above the bookcases. The floor should be of polished wood, 
and the walls painted or papered in rich, warm colors. An 
open fireplace, a library table of generous size, a desk, com- 
fortable chairs, a window-seat, a couch with pillows, rugs, 



38 HOME ECONOMICS 

etc., all should find a place in this room. It will be made 
doubly attractive and instructive il there are some classical 
pictures and a few casts. The whole atmosphere of a 
library should suggest thought and study. 

THE LIVING-ROOM 

In every house there is one room in particular where the 
members of the family assemble in their hours of leisure. 
This room is known as the living-room or sitting-room. In 
many homes it combines parlor or drawing-room, sitting- 
room, library, and reception-room. When this is the case 
it is apt to be an exceptionally delightful place; in any case, 
it ought to be the most attractive room in the house. 

Here there should be the best light, the greatest amount 

of sunshine, the most pleasing and refining pictures, the 

easiest chairs, the most cheerful fire, and books, 

stitute?" tables, foot-rests, etc. In a room of this kind 

comfort in there should be a large center-table, with a good 

TOomI* ^^"^P ^^ drop-light. If the family is large, one or 
two smaller tables, on which student-lamps are 
placed, will be of the greatest comfort. Even if there is a 
library, this room must have a bookcase filled with miscella- 
neous literature. 

A closet where newspapers, magazines, games, work, etc., 
may be kept will be found a great convenience. If there is 
no closet, some arrangement should be made for keeping 
these things. One so often wants to refer to back numbers 
of papers or magazines that these periodicals should be kept 
in an accessible place for a certain length of time. 

Another convenience in such a room is the box-seat. Any 
room used as much as this is sure to be should have a pol- 
ished floor, and there should be a generous supply of rugs. 
All the furnishing should be of the most substantial and 
comfortable kind, with nothing too good for constant wear 



FURNISHING 39 

and exposure to light and sunshine. Anything that has to 
be protected by scarfs or tidies is out of place here. Well- 
made ratan chairs, cushioned in seat and back, 
are light, clean, and comfortable. ^ ^^nJ. 

It seems a pity that so many people still cling tore in the 
to the rocking-chair. It takes up a great deal of ^J^ 
space, and the rockers are always in the way, and 
are continually being pushed against furniture and base- 
boards, where they often do much damage. The half-reclin- 
ing position which is the inevitable attitude assumed in this 
chair is not graceful, nor is it comfortable if one wishes to 
work or read. Besides, many people become inexpressibly 
nervous when they are in the same room with a person who 

' is constantly rocking. Indeed, it is an absurd sight to see 
grown people rock as if they were little children amusing 
themselves with a toy horse. 

The style of chair that, in the end, is the most comfor- 
table, and that cultivates the best carriage of the body, is one 
with a broad, deep seat and a high, almost straight 
back. Such a chair will sustain one in an erect ^fJJJJ- 
position, which should be the natural one when ue ohain. 
sitting down for work or reading. A few low re- 
clining-chairs should also be provided, and a broad, low couch 
with plenty of pillows gives an air of comfort to this room. 
The color of the walls, draperies, and furniture of 
the living-room should be soft, quiet, and restful. ^^!J^^* 

.Some of the sofa-pillows, however, may be of room, 
rich and brilliant hues. 

THE PARLOR 

In some of the most delightful houses in this country 
they have dispensed with the parlor, the library and large 
living-room serving for family and friends, while a small 
reception-room is used for ceremonious callers. 



40 HOME ECONOMICS 

A parlor should be elegant and dainty. The tints of walls, 
ceilings, and carpets should harmonize and be in delicate 
tones. The furniture should be light and elegant, the 
draperies rich, and pictures and ornaments good, even if 
that means very few of them. Really, unless one has a 
large establishment, it is best to omit the parlor. Its place 
may be supplied by a small reception-room, daintily furnished. 
The money that would be expended on the parlor may be 
used to far better advantage in the living-room, library, and 
other parts of the house. 

THE BEDROOMS 

The furnishing of these rooms is as important as that of 
any other part of the house. It is in the sleeping-room that 
one must get an interval of that absolute physical and 
mental rest which every human being requires during the 
twenty-four hours of each day. 

In sickness or health, there is no food or medicine that 

has such an influence on the physical and mental condition 

as restful slumber. Not one person in fifty re- 

ofl^tb^ alizes the great importance of favorable condi- 

ftil sleep, tions for healthful sleep. Without this restorer 

of tired nature we become nervous, irritable, and 

disagreeable to ourselves and those about us. Certainly 

everything should be done to make the qualifications for 

sleep as nearly perfect as possible. 

Two people should not occupy the same room unless it is 

absolutely necessary. If this is unavoidable, however, there 

Separate ^^^^^^ ^^ leB,st be separate beds. The individual 

beds in bed is not a difiicult problem in these days of 

sleeping, dainty enameled-iron beds, which can be had at 

rooms* 

low pnces, and of the beautiful brass beds for 
those who can afford them. 
The most desirable floor for the bedroom is the well-fin- 



FURNISHING 41 

ished one of hard wood. A poorly finished pine floor may be 

covered with a good matting, under which a smooth lining 

of paper or some other material should first be 

laid down. Never nail a woolen carpet on the So^* 

floor of a bedroom. Rugs, large or small, that bedrooms. 

may be shaken and aired frequently in the open 

air, may be used to give a look of warmth and comfort that 

one likes in winter in our northern climate. Woolen stuffs 

absorb dust and odors, and they should not be used if they 

cannot be subjected to frequent dusting and airing. 

The light in the sleeping-room should be softened by 
shades and draperies. It is well to have two sets of shades 
at the windows, one set light in color, and the 
inner one a dark green, which may be drawn down ^ softened 
at night, if necessary. The draperies should be one for 
of some soft, light, washable material. rSm.^' 

The necessary furniture for a bedroom is a bed, 
dressing-case, one or two plain chairs and one easy-chair, a 
wash-stand of generous size, a toilet-set, a towel-rack, and a 
table. In addition to these things, if there is 
space and one can aiford the extra outlay, a ^Y,^^ 
couch with a few pillows is a most desirable bedroom, 
piece of furniture. A large mat of Japanese mat- 
ting, or a Japanese cotton rug, should be placed in front of 
the wash-stand, whether the floor is polished or covered 
with matting. Another piece of furniture that will be of 
great service is a large screen. This may be used at night 
to prevent the wind from blowing directly on the sleeper, 
and in the daytime to shut off the corner where the toilet 
ai^rangements are kept. Of course the room will be all the 
more charming and convenient if there are pictures, a few 
book-shelves, and a writing-desk. Such a room may be kept 
in an absolutely sanitary condition with very little work. 

The most important article in the bedroom is, of course, 
the bed. The perfect bed will support all parts of the body 



43 HOME ECONOMICS 

in an absolutely horizontal position. Firm springs and a 
good hair mattress will do this. The heavier the person 

who sleeps in the bed, the more important it is 
bed Tan be ^^^^ *^® springs shall be strong and firm. If 
made abso- economy must be considered, let it be in the bed- 
^^^toST' stead; the springs should be as good as possible. 

Nothing could be simpler or more sanitary than 
the iron or brass bed, with the woven-wire springs fas- 
tened to an iron frame. The only objection to the woven 
wire is that it is apt to sag— an almost unpardonable fault 
in a bed. But when the wire is of extra good quality, 
closely and firmly woven, and attached to an iron frame, it 
makes an excellent foundation for a single bed. If a thick, 
well-made mattress is placed on this, the bed will be very 
comfortable. The best arrangement, however, is to have a 

rather hard mattress, of excelsior, for example, 
treeees. ^^^h a good hair mattress on top. This gives a 

bed that will sustain the body at every point of 
contact, and which will be soft without yielding. Every- 
thing else being equal, one should get perfect rest on such 
a bed. 

It may be thought that two hair mattresses would be 
better than one hard one and one of hair, but this is not the 
case. I am convinced that half the unrest, sleeplessness, 
and backache with which people are afilicted is due to the 
fact that most of the beds in use do not support the body 
in a perfectly horizontal position. Heavy people are the 
greatest suiferers, for the middle of the body sinks into the 
yielding bed, and is at an angle where it should be straight 
so as to give perfect freedom to the internal organs. If one 
cannot afford hair or wool mattresses the excelsior mattress 
may be made more comfortable by laying a thick pad upon 
it. The pad may be made like a comfortable, of cotton-bat- 
ting, covered with white cotton cloth. It should be as wide 
and as long as the mattress and quite thick. 



FURNISHING 43 

People who have been accustomed to a very soft bed may 
object, at first, to a support that yields only slightly; but 
once having given it a thorough test, they will never be 
willing to sleep on any other kind of bed. 

Teach the children to sleep on a firm bed, and with only 
the thinnest kind of a pillow, if any, under the head. 

The question of pillows is an important one also. It is 
difficult to induce one who has acquired the habit of sleeping 
on high pillows to change to low ones. But the children 
reason for making such a change is based on a should be 
hygienic principle. When one is bolstered up in *52ep*in* 
bed it is impossible to relax all the muscles, a an almost 
thing which can only be done when the head is jj^^^^jj 
almost on a level with the rest of the body. One position, 
should gradually accustom himself to sleeping ^^ 
with the head low. The pillows may be low- 
ered a little each week until the desired point is reached. 

The length of the bed and the length of the sheets are 
two important factors in the comfort— or discomfort— of 
the sleeper. The measurement of the bed on the j^g^-^^ ^f 
inside should not be less than seventy-eight inches, gheets of 
The finished sheet should measure at least two and ^^!^^ 
three quarter yards. This will admit of the sheet 
being tucked well under the bottom of the mattress, and of 
there being enough at the top to turn back and prevent the 
blankets from coming in contact with the face and hands. 

Some housekeepers are particular in this respect with all 
the beds except those occupied by the servants, to whom 
they give sheets of the smallest possible dimensions. It 
should be remembered that the generous sheet adds not only 
to the comfort of the sleeper, but that it also is a protec- 
tion to the bedding. 

Coverings should be as light as possible, and of a material 
that will insure ventilation. There is nothing better than 
the washable woolen blankets. 



44 HOME ECONOMICS 

A word as to the quality of the blankets. There is no 
question but that the all-wool blanket, being warmer and 
Blankets. l^S^^®^* ^^ more desirable than one of cotton or 
of wool. The only advantage of a mixture of cot- 
ton and wool is that the blanket does not shrink so much in 
the washing; but if the work is properly done there need be 
no perceptible shrinkage in the woolen ones. 

There are blankets that are so fine and costly that one 
hesitates to have them washed, or even cleaned, often. 
Such blankets are generally protected by a cotton or linen 
cover, and can be used a long time without cleaning. But 
even if these blankets do not become soiled, after a while 
they will have absorbed impurities from the body, and they 
should have frequent and thorough airings. The better plan 
is to have less costly coverings, that may be washed at least 
once a year. 

The making of the bed is quite as important as any other 
matter connected with it. Everything possible should be 

imDor- ^^^® ^^ prevent discomfort and restraint. In the 
tance of a following directions, it is the sleeper who is con- 
weU^ade sidered, and not the style of the bed. 

1. Spread the under sheet on the mattress, 
getting it perfectly smooth. Tuck it in all around. 

2. Spread the top sheet on smoothly, having enough to 

tuck in generously at the foot. After tucking the sheet 

under the foot of the mattress, pull it down a 

^j^J ^ little from the top, that it may not be too tight 

bed. over the feet of the sleeper. 

3. Put the blankets on, having the first one come 
well down over the end of the mattress; lay the others even 
with the end of the mattress. If the blankets are double, see 
that the open end is toward the head of the bed, so that 
half of the blanket may be turned back if one wishes. 

4. Tuck the top sheet and the blankets in at the side of 
the mattress, not under it. This leaves the covering free. 



FURNISHING 45 

5. Put on the pillows and spread. How this shall be done 
depends upon the mistress of the house. Taste and fashion 
vary in these matters constantly, and they are of no vital 
importance. Still, system and care are essential, that the 
bed may look neat and attractive. 

The mattresses should be protected by large cases of 
bleached or unbleached cotton cloth. Wide cotton should 
be procured for this^ In measuring for the width 
of the case, allow for the width and the depth of ^*®**^®^ 
the mattress; in measuring for the length of the mattress, 
case, allow for the length and the depth of the 
mattress. Thus, if your mattress is seventy-six inches long, 
forty inches wide, and eight inches deep, you will require five 
yards of cloth fifty inches wide. This allows for the seams 
in making, and for some slight shrinkage. Fold the cloth 
together, and stitch it, leaving one side open. Slip the mat- 
tress in at the open side, and sew it up. This sewing may 
be like strong basting; for the covers should be taken off and 
washed twice a year. 

The mattresses for a double bed should be in such a form 
that the wear may come on all parts equally. For this 
reason it is a good plan to have the mattress made in two 
parts, one a square and the other an oblong. The oblong 
should be as long as the square, of course, and wide enough 
to fill the space between the edge of the square and the 
foot of the bedstead. If the square is turned about from 
day to day, and the oblong piece is sometimes at the foot 
and sometimes at the head, the wear on all parts of the 
mattress will be equalized. 

The one objection that may be raised to this arrangement 
is that the seam where the two pieces come together is 
sometimes annoying. To obviate this, a thin comfortable, 
made of cotton-batting and white cotton cloth, may be 
spread over the mattress. 

If the springs are not covered, there should be a covering 



46 HOME ECONOMICS 

of some washable material— strong unbleached cloth, for 
example. Springs that are of a style that will admit of 

their being slipped into a casing may have a cov- 
fOTsp^m. ®™g made like that described for mattresses. If 

this cannot be done, have the cover so made that 
it will cover the ends and sides of the springs, and fasten it 
on with tapes. All springs should be covered for the pro- 
tection of the sheets and blankets. 

1. Have mattress turned in different direction each day. 

2. Spread under sheet smoothly over mattress, tucking it 

under the mattress. 
remembOT. ^' Spread top sheet so as to tuck in well at foot. 
4. Blankets with free ends at the head. 

5. Fold sheet over blankets, then turn both back in a fold. 
Tuck in at sides of the bed, not under the mattress. 

6. Put on spread and pillows. 

THE KITCHEN 

So much of the health and comfort of the family depends 
on the kitchen that the most careful thought should be 
given to its furnishing. 

First in importance is the range. As far as cooking 

appliances are concerned, we are now in a transition stage. 

With the exception of some localities far back in 

^'^ w?' the country where it is still used, wood as a fuel 

purpoBos. for cooking has not been employed for many years. 

Anthracite coal takes its place in some parts of 

the country, and bituminous coal in others. For the last 

twenty years gas as a fuel for cooking purposes has been 

growing in favor. Various forms of petroleum are also used. 

Electricity is now preparing to enter the field as a powerful 

rival of all the other fuels. The costliness of the cooking 

apparatus which it requires seems to be the only obstacle in 

the way of its speedy adoption. This objection will, no doubt. 



FURNISHING 47 

be eliminated in time. Certainly, for the great majority of 
householders, coal will be the fuel for a long time to come. 

Whatever fuel is used, let the range be one of the best in 
the market. This is a true economy. 

The necessary qualifications of a good range are : ^^ ^ 

1. That the draft shall be perfect. 

2. That checks and dampers shall be so arranged that 
the heat may be increased or decreased at will. 

3. That there shall be ample oven-space. 

4. That it is possible to make the oven as hot on the 
bottom as on the top. 

5. That there shall be a good arrangement for broiling. 

6. That the fire-box shall be large enough to take in suflB- 
cient coal for the work to be done without being filled to 
the top. 

7. That a large part of the top surface of the range may 
be made hot enough for the boiling of liquids. 

8. That the grate shall be of a kind that will admit of 
the bottom of the fire being cleaned without the use of a 
poker. (The Dokash and Duplex grates are both excellent.) 

9. That the water-back is so arranged that an abundant 
supply of hot water may be assured. 

If a gas-range is to be used, see that the oven accommoda- 
tions are ample, that there is a good place for broiling, and that 
there is room enough on the top of the range for 
boiling, stewing, frying, etc. Be sure that there is rai^. 
one small burner, or even more, for simmering. 

The gas-range should have a small pipe entering the 
chimney to carry off the products of combustion. 

The pipe which supplies the gas to the range should be 
of iron, and large enough to insure a suflScient flow of gas 
when all the burners are in operation. 

Ample table-room in the kitchen simplifies the work. 
The tables should be strong and well made. A white table 
is very attractive, but it means a great deal of care. If the 



48 HOME ECONOMICS 

table is covered with white enameled cloth, it will always 
look well, and it may be kept clean with little labor, provided 
hot dishes are not placed on it. 
^WelT ^^ matter what kind of tables are in use, there 
should be several smooth hard-wood boards to re- 
ceive the hot saucepans. These boards may be scrubbed 
clean in the sink every day. 

In large households where a great deal of cooking is done 
a table covered with zinc is most useful. 

A clock that is an accurate timekeeper is a necessity in 

the kitchen. There should be a few strong chairs, and one 

^. comfortable chair, and a shelf for cook-books and 

▼enienoef Other reading matter. A slate and pencil for writ- 

idi^* ing down the daily orders will be a convenience, 

and there ought to be an arrangement for hanging 

dish-towels to dry in wet weather. A coal-hod, shovel, tongs, 

broom, long-handled and short-handled brushes, dust-pan, 

draining-rack, hand-basin, a fiber pail, and a tea-kettle will 

complete the necessary furnishing of the kitchen. 

KITCHEN UTENSILS 

The number of cooking utensils, and the most desirable 
materials for them, are difficult questions for the housekeeper 
to decide at any time; but to the beginner they 
^® toteh^ ^^^^ ^^ added importance, as the drain on the 
enutensilB. purse must usually be considered. It is a mistake 
to fill the kitchen with all the utensils one may 
think she will be apt to need in the future. It is wiser to 
get the necessary articles first, and to have them of the best 
quality and the simplest construction. Utensils with the 
smoothest possible surface, and no more coils or grooves 
than are absolutely necessary, are the easiest to keep clean, 
and will be found to last the longest, and are therefore an 
economy in time and money. 



FURNISHING 49 

There are several qualifications that are desirable in a 
cooking utensil: 

1. Smoothness. jMiMe 

2. Ability to stand high temperature without qualitiei 
cracking, melting, or becoming rough. ^ ^^^^ 

3. Imperviousness to the absorption of grease 
or flavors. 

4. Inability to impart flavor to, or to discolor, food sub- 
stances. 

There are not many materials that combine all these 
qualifications. Iron and steel are desirable materials because 
they can sustain a high temperature without in- .^^ ^^^ 
jury, and if properly cared for they grow smoother and steel 
and finer with use. For these reasons iron is the «» dear- 
most satisfactory metal for the following articles: 
frying-kettles, frying-pans, omelet-pans, waflle-irons, etc. 
Iron utensils should not be used for cooking fruits, or similar 
articles into which acids enter, as they will discolor the prep- 
aration and spoil the flavor. 

The various kinds of granite or enameled ware, if ®^*°***, ?' 
of the first grade, are generally very satisfactory. <^are. 
The surface is smooth and the utensils are light. 

Tinware is most useful for certain purposes. It must be 
remembered that this metal melts at a rather low tempera- 
ture, i. e., 442° F., and it should nev.er be exposed xinware 
to a high temperature, such as is necessary, for 
example, in frying; nor should it be placed over the fire or 
in the oven without being covered with water, or some liquid 
in which water or milk enters. Water and watery substances 
tend to reduce the temperature, while fatty substances tend to 
raise it. (See " Temperature of Fats and Other Substances.") 

Pewter and Britannia both melt at a low temper- Pewterand 
ature, and should be used only for such purposes ^'i^**""*- 
as do not require a dry heat. These metals make satisfac- 
tory tea-pots, dish-covers, etc. 



50 



HOME ECONOMICS 



Wooden- 
ware. 



Woodenware absorbs odors and fats. Articles made of this 
material, when used as receptacles for cereals, are apt to 
become filled with weevils. The use of wooden- 
ware, therefore, for such purposes should be lim- 
ited to the few articles that can be made of no 
other material. 

Stone- and earthenware and common crockery answer 
for all ordinary purposes. For baking-dishes which 
are sent to the table, there is nothing more satis- 
factory than the French fire-proof ware. It is dur- 
able and keeps its color; the glaze does not crack, 
and the ware does not absorb odors. 
The following is a list of the utensils needed in the 
kitchen: 

TINWARE 



stone- and 
earthisn- 
ware for 
ordinary 
pnrpoeee. 



Steamer large enough to 

steam puddings and brown 

bread. 
2 sets of stamped muffin-pans, 

one containing 6 or 8 cups, 

and the other 12 cups. 
4 cake-pans, XXX tin. 
4 deep plates. 
Molds for puddings . and 

creams. 
2 graduated quart-measures. 
2 graduated measuring-cups, 

one divided into thirds, and 

one into fourths. 
6 milk-pans (these are useful 

for many things). 
2 dish-pans. 
Long-handled dipper. 
Coffee-biggin. 



Purfie-sieve. 

Fine sieve. 

Coarse strainer. 

Fine strainer. 

Coarse grater. 

Fine grater. 

Flour-scoop. 

Sugar-scoop. 

Boxes for sugar, rice, hominy, 
meal, etc. 

Tea-canister. 

Frying-basket. 

Spice-box. 

Bread-box. 

Cake-box. 

Biscuit-cutter. 

Tin pails for keeping drip- 
pings and fats to be used 
for frying. 



FURNISHING 



61 



IRONWARE 



Scotch bowl for frying. No. 
3 or 4; size depends on use. 

2 omelet-pans of French pol- 
ished ware or English ham- 
mered ware. 

2 roasting-pans. 

2 frying-pans, small and 
large. 

Short-handled frying-pan, 
that maybe put in the oven. 



Skewers (steel). 

WaflSe-iron. 

3 double broilers— meat, fish, 

and toast. 
Soup-pot. 
Griddle. 
Meat-rack. 
3 bread-pans. 
Set of roll-pans. 
2 porcelain-lined kettles. 



GRANITE-WARE 



8 stew-pans, ranging in size Colander. 

from one holding 1 quart 2 double boilers, 1-quart size 
to one holding 2 gallons. and 2-quart size. 



WOODENWARE 



V 

Flour-sieve. 

Cover for flour-barrel. 

Molding-board. 

Board on which to cut meats. 

Rolling-pin. 



Board on which to cut bread, 
and 3 boards to use on cook- 
ing-table. 

6 wooden spoons. 

Vegetable-masher 



Chopping-bowl. 



EARTHENWARE 



6 bowls, ranging from 1-quart 
size to 6-quart size. 

6 white bowls, ranging from 
1-pint size to 1-quart size. 



6 cups and saucers. 

6 white pitchers of various 

sizes. 
12 dinner-plates. 



52 



HOME ECONOMICS 



12 breakfast-plates. 2 or 3 pudding-dishes of va- 
Several platters and small rious sizes. 

dishes to use in putting Molds. 

away food. 

STONEWARE 



Several pots of various sizes 
for use in keeping butter, 
salt-pork, moist cake, etc. 



Jugs for molasses, vinegar, 
etc. 



Vegetable-slicer. 
Palette-knife. 
Bread-knife. 
Butcher's knife. 
Vegetable-knives. 
Large fork. 
Common knives and 
Egg-beaters. 
Steel dish-cloth. 
Steel skewers. 
Soap-shaker. 
Teaspoons. 
Table-spoons. 



MISCELLANEOUS 

strong iron spoons. 
Lemon-squeezer. 
Good scales. 
Mortar and pestle. 
Coffee-mill. 
Tea-pot. 
forks. Coffee-pot. 
Funnel. 

Salt-, flour-, and pepper- 
dredgers. 
Ice-pick, 
skimmer. 
Cake-turner. 
Can-opener. 



All cooking utensils should be of as simple construction 
as possible, but the material and workmanship must be of 
the best. This is the wisest economy in the long run. 

Nearly all tin utensils are made by pressing thin sheets 
How tin of sheet-iron into the required shapes, which are 
utenrils then dipped into a bath of liquid tin. Cheap tin- 
are m e. ^^^^^ jg made of a poor, light quality of sheet-iron, 
and has merely a thin plating of tin, which soon wears off, 



FURNISHING 53 

making the utensils useless. If tin is cleaned with a gritty 
substance, like sand, or scraped with a sharp instrument, 
like a knife or steel skewer, the thin layer of tin deaaiiig 
is apt to be cut through to the sheet-iron, and tin with 
the result is fine lines of rust on the article. **" 

It is always best to buy blotk-tm^ as then you are sure of 
getting a pure, substantial article. Utensils made bj^^^.!^ 
of heavy block-tin cost two or three times as much 
as those of poor, light, and often impure tin, but they will 
wear five or six times as well. 

Enameled wares, such as granite-ware, blue enamels, etc., 
are made of iron, more or less heavy, coated with a prepara- 
tion which is allowed to dry and is then fused at 
a high temperature. These articles differ greatly J^^JJj^ 
in quality, as is the case also with the tinware. In are made, 
purchasing any kind of enameled ware, each piece 
should be examined carefully to see that the en- ^JJJ^Jji?^ 
amel is perfectly smooth. If it is cracked or ware, 
chipped in the least, reject it, for it will not wear 
well. Manufacturers separate all such pieces from the per- 
fect ware and sell them as seconds. Dealers will often assure 
you that these seconds are just as good as the perfect ware, 
except in appearance; but this is not true. 

All enameled ware should be made of a firm, unbending 
material. The slightest bend causes the enamel to crack, 
and it then chips off. See that stew-pans and other (^^litj^ 
utensils in granite-ware or blue and white enam- necessary 
els are firm and of good weight. Enameled gJJi®^^^ 
spoons are not satisfactory, because they are apt 
to bend and crack. For all stirring and beating the wooden 
spoons are best. When a large, strong spoon is required, 
well-tinned iron spoons are the most satisfactory. Measur- 
ing-spoons should be well-plated table-spoons of the usual 
size. 

Ironware is most satisfactory for many purposes. The 



54 HOME ECONOMICS 

only objection to it is its weight and the extra work needed 

to keep it clean. The longer iron is used, the 

^^^^' smoother and more valuable it becomes. Next 

T.a o fta AT 

izwQware. to copper, it is the best material for retaining 
heat, and for this reason it is well to have a few 

stew-pans and the soup-kettle of iron. 

Porcelain- Porcelain-lined kettles are very good, if properly 

lined ket- treated; but if abused, the lining soon breaks and 

the kettle is useless. 
Copper Copper requires too much care, and is too heavy, 

utensils, j^^. ^g^ ^^ ^Yxq ordinary household. 

The yellow earthenware is generally finished very smoothly, 

and makes excellent mixing-bowls. It is made of a softer 

paste, and is fired at a lower temperature, than 

^^^^ the white stone china, and so breaks more easily. 

ware." Therefore, although the first cost of the white 

stone china is greater, its durability makes it 

cheaper in the end. 

Receptacles for food should be made of a substance that 

will not harbor insects. Tin, stone, earthenware, and glass 

Seeep. are the best materials for this purpose. Wooden 

tades for receptacles should only be used when these other 

materials are too costly or are impracticable. 

Stoneware and earthenware absorb fats, and tin does 

not; hence it is best to use tin pails for holding the various 

stone, and ^inds of fats. 

I earthen- Glass jars are excellent for holding small quan- 
^*" *^ titles of such groceries as are not injured by light, 
as, for example, rice, currants, raisins, etc. Bread, 
cake, crackers, and ginger-snaps will retain their crispness 
and freshness if kept in tin receptacles, while if they are 
kept in stone jars they will become moist. 

Taken all in all, tin makes the best receptacles for holding 
all cereals, dry legumes, sugar, etc. The various receptacles 
in which these stores are kept should be plainly labeled. 



FURNISHING 66 

Galvanized iron is used for many articles about the house 
for which a strong material that will not rust is required. 
Therefore the ash-barrel, garbage-pail, and ref rig- Oalvasiied 
erator-pan should be made of galvanized iron. *W' 

The refrigerator should be chosen for its simplicity of 
construction and its sanitary arrangements. When one 
lives at a great distance from the markets, the re- The refrig- 
frigerator should be of generous size. In such a «»*©'• 
case, if the household be large, a small ice-chest for fish is 
quite desirable. 

In the list of utensils given, only such articles have been 
mentioned as would be required by a family living in a 
moderate way. Of course people who keep a lux- 
urious table will require many things not mentioned may be 
here, and, on the other hand, people living in a adapted to 
small way may cut down the list to suit their cir- l^^ 
cumstances. Whether the mode of living is plain 
or sumptuous, what has been said of the quality of the uten- 
sils remains true. 

How to arrange the covers of the saucepans is always a 
problem. There is nothing to hang them by, and one 
rarely has shelf-room enough for them. I have 
found that a long rack, such as is placed under the jj^jj^^ 
meat when roasting in the oven, is an excellent con- pan ooven. 
trivance for holding these covers. Place it in one 
comer of the shelf, and slip the edges of the covers between 
the bars, arranging the covers according to size, the largest 
at one end, and the smallest at the other. This little con- 
venience economizes both space and time, for a cover can be 
found or replaced without a moment's delay. 

VENTILATION 

An important duty of the housekeeper in cold weather is 
to see that the house is properly aired and ventilated. 



56 HOME ECONOMICS 

Every room that is occupied should be thoroughly aired 
each day. One can keep warmer in a room filled with pure 
air that has a temperature of 65° than in a room where the 
temperature is much higher and the air impure. The 
temperature of the house should not exceed 70°. 

The rooms and hallways of the main portion of the house 

should be thrown together as much as possible, thus keeping 

an equal temperature throughout the house, and 

to©!* insuring a free circulation of air. If there is a 
window in the upper hall, or in a room opening oflf 
the hall, which may be kept slightly open, it will help keep 
the air of the house pure. The hot air that comes from the 
X thod of f ^^^c® supplies the house, to a certain extent, 
obtaininga with fresh air. If the house is heated by steam 
^^*^^ or hot water, this supply is lacking, and there is 
greater need of some openings that will admit 
pure air. A piece of board about two or three inches wide, 
and as long as the window is broad, may be placed under the 
lower sash of one or two windows, as, for example, the hall 
windows. This will give access to fresh air without making 
a draft, and is a good arrangement for bedroom windows in 
extremely cold weather. 

There are patent ventilators that fit under the sash in 
this manner, which are very satisfactory. They are in the 
form of a narrow box, one side of which has a number of 
small openings, the top being covered with fine wire netting. 
There are slides that may be drawn over this netting when 
one wishes to exclude all or part of the air. These boxes 
are placed under the sash, with the openings on the outside. 

Many people cannot sleep with the windows open at night 
or in damp weather. A screen which will admit pure air. 
Screen for and yet keep out the dampness, should be provided 
exduding for such cases, and may be made in this manner: 

mpness. pg^g^^jj ^^^^ Angora flannel to a frame similar to 
those used for mosquito nettings. This may be placed in the 



FURNISHING 57 

window at night, after the sash is raised. In the morning 
you will find the inside of the screen dry, while the outside 
will be covered with moisture, showing that dampness was 
kept out of the room at the same time that fresh air was 
admitted. 

There are a few things that one should keep in mind in 
order that the ventilation of the house may be done intelli- 
gently. 

All gases and moisture expand and rise as they noowsiSy 
are heated. for inteiii- 

AU gases and moisture contract and have a ^^atTon!" 
tendency to fall as they are chilled. 

Some of the gases are at the ordinary temperature lighter 
than air, while others are heavier. Carbonic-acid gas (car- 
bon dioxid) is about one and one half times as heavy as air. 

Remsen says: "Pure air may be defined as air which con- 
sists of nitrogen, oxygen, and carbon dioxid in the propor- 
tions stated above " (about i nitrogen, i oxygen, 
and 10006 carbon dioxid), "together with some ©fpureiS. 
water-vapor, ammonia, ozone, and hydrogen dioxid, 
and nothing of an injurious nature." It is evident from 
what has been said that there is constant danger of con- 
tamination from natural causes. The most common 
cause of contamination is the breathing of human ^*J«®^ ®' 
beings in rooms which are inadequately supplied tion. 
with air. The breathing process involves the using 
up of oxygen and the giving off of carbon dioxid and small 
quantities of organic matter which is undergoing decomposi- 
tion. If the quantity of oxygen is reduced below a certain limit 
the air becomes unfit for breathing purposes, and evil effects 
follow. An ordinary inhalation will not then be sufficient 
to supply the blood with the oxygen necessary to purify it, 
and the system will begin to suffer. Headache, drowsiness, 
and a general sense of discomfort follow. The ill effects of 
breathing the air of a badly ventilated room occupied by a 



58 HOME ECONOMICS 

number of human beings are, however, due for the most 

part to the presence of the small quantities of decomposing 

■ organic matters which are given off from the lungs 

^SftK with the carbon dioxid and the gases. These act 

low the as poisons. They have been thrown off from the 

rf^f*^^ lungs because they are unfit for use, and when 

air. they are taken back again the normal processes 

of the body are interfered with. The subject of 
ventilation has been so thoroughly discussed of late years 
that great improvement has been made in the arrangements 
for supplying pure air to dwelling-apartments and audience- 
halls; but there is still room for improvement. Fortunately, 
in most buildings there is one source of supply of pure air 
which is independent* of the architect's plans. This is the 
diffusion of gases through the porous materials of which the 
buildings are constructed. There is also a good deal of 
ventilation through the cracks and other apertures which 
are always to be found in our buildings. 

Under some conditions which are not thoroughly under- 
stood the air becomes badly contaminated by the decomposi- 

tion of animal and vegetable matter. Air thus 

AiT when j.»i.j 'isj* j 

oontami- contammated may cause specific diseases, and 

nated some of these are spoken of as being caused by 

"^1^^ rnolaria, a word which signifies simply bad air. 

"What it is in this bad air which causes these 

diseases has not yet been determined; but it seems probable, 

from researches on other diseases, that there are in the air 

microscopic germs which have the power to develop in the 

body and then to cause the symptoms which are referred to 

as malaria. Germs of one kind and another are undoubtedly 

present in great variety, and they play important parts in 

connection with the life and health of man, and also in the 

destruction of plants and animals in which life has become 

extinct." 

In ventilating a room the temperature must be taken into 



FURNISHING 59 

consideration. Whether a room is warm or cold, it is always 

safe and well to have a window opened at the top. If 

the room is very warm this is absolutely necessary, tarcMSJ^ 

because the heated air rises. If the room is cold Bideredin 

all the carbon dioxid does not rise; therefore there ^®^^^ 

should be an opening in the lower part of the room 

for the escape of the gas and the admission of fresh air. 

In sleeping-rooms, which usually are cool, the lower part 
of a window should be opened, and the top also Howto 
should be let down. If in summer the windows voitilate 
are provided with a netting, it is a good arrange- ■iwping- 
ment to have the entire window covered; then the 
sash may be raised and lowered at will. 

The kitchen windows should be protected in the same 
manner. At all seasons of the year, while work is going on 
in kitchen and laundry, the windows should be let 
down from the top. By this precaution, not only ©f^tSi^ 
is the air of these rooms kept pure and sweet, but 
odors are prevented from getting into other parts of the house. 

The entire house should have a thorough airing every 
morning. In this general airing the health and 
comfort of the various members of the household ^,Jj™ 
must be taken into consideration. No one should ventilated 
be exposed to a draft or chill. There is little dan- ^^j^,^ 
ger in this to the healthy person who is moving ly. 
briskly about, but with the weak and delicate it 
is another matter. Some rooms, therefore, must be kept 
warm while the rest of the house is undergoing the airing. 

The following plan for the daily airing of the 
house might be observed. Sfdany 

1. The first thing in the morning, open the win- airing, 
dows in the lower hall, sitting-room, and dining- 
room. In winter this should be done for a few minutes only. 

2. As soon as the sleeping-rooms are vacated, open the 
windows, take the coverings from the bed, one piece at a 



60 HOME EGONOMIGS 

time, and spread them about the room where they will get 
the full effect of a current of air. Beat the pillows and 
place them near the windows. Turn the mattress over the 
foot of the bed, that the air may circulate all around it. 

3. The sleeping-rooms should air for at least an hour even 
in the coldest weather. 

4. Open windows in the upper and lower halls, and also 
open the outside door, if it is safe to do so. After break- 

fast air the dining-room, which should also have 

tagesof a' ^ thorough airing after each meal. Air the other 

generous parts of the house as the comfort and convenience 

•^2? ""' of the family will permit. 

thnmgh- It should be remembered that a great volume 

^usef ^^ P^^® ^^^ sweeping through the house will in ten 

minutes remove the impure air more effectually 

than airing for an hour or more with windows only partly 

opened and doors closed. 

A knowledge of the nature and action of oxygen is essen- 
tial to an intelligent understanding of the valtie and necessity 
of pure air in our homes and elsewhere. Any good book on 
chemistry will explain this so clearly that any one even with- 
out a knowledge of chemistry can comprehend it readily. 



CHAPTER IV 

DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 

General directions for sweeping and dusting. To clean matting. How to 
wash ¥nndows. Cleaning copper and brasses. How to clean painted 
woodwork. Care of window-sashes. Care of dining-room. Care of ta- 
bleware. Care of kitchen and pantries. Care of the floors. Care of 
kitchen utensils. Tinware. Woodenware. The tea kettle. Tea-pots 
and coffee-pots. Care of the refrigerator. The sink. To clean an iron 
sink. Care of cellar. Household refuse. Care of the plumbing. 

The household machinery should be kept in such order that 
no member of the family shall be uncomfortably conscious 
of its working. The daily attention to the little duties which, 
small in themselves, in the aggregate take much time and 
thought, is what keeps the machinery working smoothly. 
Here the stitch in time which saves nine is fully demonstrated. 

Method and order are two most important fac- 
tors in the management of the household. A place '^^^^^ 
for everything, and everything in its place, is a rule fetoton. 
the strict observance of which will insure order. 

If the work of the household is systematized, each day will 
see its allotted tasks accomplished and the work of the fol- 
lowing day unhampered. It is only in this way ^^^^ 
that the household machinery can be run without should he 
friction. ■^*- 

Each member of the family is a part of the work- 
ing machinery, and it is important that each one should per- 

61 



62 HOME ECONOMICS 

form his or her part cheerfully and promptly. It is no kind- 
ness to child or adult to let him shirk his duties. Life is 
made up of little things, and they form the character. 

Perhaps no two housekeepers follow the same plan in the 
daily routine of the household work. The mode of living, 
individual ideas as to the best system, etc., govern every 
housekeeper. 

For the benefit of the inexperienced, a simple outline of 

the daily program is given as a suggestion. As the method 

of doing the work is described in separate sections, 

^^^®'. , the general outline is all that is necessary here. 

inezperi- 1. Make the fires, and air the dining-room and 

keeper. 2. Prepare the breakfast and set the table. 

3. Put the bedrooms to air while the family 
is at breakfast. 

4. Remove the breakfast-dishes; put away the food. Sort 
the dishes and put to soak all dishes and utensils that have 
had food in them which would be likely to stick. 

5. Put dining-room and sitting-room in order, airing them 
well. 

6. Wash the dishes, and put the kitchen and pantries in 
order. Prepare dishes that require slow cooking, and put 
them to cook. 

7. Make the beds and put sleeping-rooms and bath-room 
in order. 

8. Trim the lamps. 

9. Dust halls and stairs; sweep piazzas and sidewalk. 

Kake the ^^' ^^ *^® special work of the day. 
work light On washing and ironing days make the general 

^^dS**^" ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ simple as possible, unless a 
regular laundress is employed. 
If each member of the family will do something to lighten 
the labor of the maids, and the meals are simple and hot, the 
work will go on smoothly^ 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 63 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SWEEPING AND DUSTING 

When cleaning is to be done, it will pay to take ample time 
for doing it well. A house may be made to look clean and 
orderly when in fact it is quite the reverse. » . ^. 

A room with a polished floor may be kept per- to clean 
f ectly clean all the year round with half the trouble t^o'o'igl^- 
that one has to expend where floors are carpeted. 
Everything possible should be taken out of a carpeted room, 
first brushing and dusting each piece thoroughly. 

Cover the heavy pieces of furniture with cloths kept for 
this purpose. Then dust the pictures, using a soft feather 
duster for the frames, and a coarse brush for the 
backs. Cover all the pictures, mirrors, clocks, 5*^*J*" 
etc., with pieces of coarse unbleached cotton. (It sweeping, 
will be a great convenience if a number of these 
cloths are kept for covering all the furniture and ornaments 
that cannot easily be moved.) Close the doors and open the 
windows. 

It is sometimes a good plan to scatter damp paper or damp 
bran over a carpet that has become more than ordinarily dusty; 
then begin to sweep, holding the broom almost 
perpendicular and taking short strokes. Sweep g^^^^g, 
in one general direction, then take up the dirt. 

Brush the dust from every part of the frames and ledges 
of windows and doors, using a medium-sized brush, such as 
a paint-brush, for the moldings and comers, and finish with 
a soft cloth. Cheese-cloth makes a good duster. 

Cover the broom with a clean piece of flannel or J^JJjfwid 
cotton flannel, and brush the ceiling and walls, ceUing. 
using a downward stroke on the walls. Brush the 
baseboards. Next, brush the edges and corners of the carpet 
with a short corn-broom, and sweep the carpet a second time. 

While the dust is settling, wash the windows. When the 



64 HOME ECONOMICS 

windows are finished, take the cloths off the furniture and 
pictures, and dust the room. Wipe spots from the paint and 
woodwork. The carpet should then be wiped over 
Windows, ^^jj ^ clean cloth wrung out of ammonia and wa- 
woodwork. ter, using two tablespoonf uls of ammonia to four 
quarts of tepid water. Rinse the cloth frequently 
^^^ ^ in this water. 

of carpet Put up the hangings and lay the rugs in place; 
bring back the furniture and ornaments. If the 
woodwork of any of the furniture needs polishing or oiling, 
now is the time to do it. 

If there is a fireplace in the room, all the brass or steel 
about it should be removed before the room is swept. The 
Care of g^^*® ^i^d fireplace should then be cleaned, and 
fireplace the hearth properly brushed. It should be washed 
bnuMi ^f^®^ *h® carpet is swept. The brass or steel 
must be polished in the kitchen or laundry be- 
fore it is replaced. 

If there are registers in the floor, lift them before you 

begin to sweep. Have a large paper spread on the carpet, and 

brush the registers on this. Wipe the hot-air pipe 

regiflteri. *^ remove all dust. Lay a newspaper over the 

opening, and place the registers, upside down, 

over it. The paper is to be removed when the sweeping is 

finished and the registers are put in place. 

Bugs and Draperies.— The draperies which were taken down 
when the room was being prepared for sweeping should be well 
shaken in the open air, and, if possible, hung on lines out of 
doors. Brush heavy material, like velvet, plush, brocade, etc. 
The rugs should be laid face downward on the grass, or on 
a smooth wooden surface, and beaten with a ratan. Then 
they must be turned face upward and brushed. Hang them 
on the line to air. If there is no grass or plain surface on 
which to beat the rugs, hang them on the line at once, shake 
out the loose dust, and beat with the ratan. 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 66 

It is a bad habit to hold the rug at one end and shake it. 
The weight of the rug loosens the threads at the upper end; 
hence the raveling near the borders. 

Furniture.— Upholstered furniture should be dusted with 
a brush, and wiped with an old silk duster. The woodwork 
must be rubbed with a soft cloth. If there is carving on the 
woodwork, it should be dusted with a brush. 

« 

When the woodwork of the furniture requires polishing, 
wipe it with a soft sponge, or cloth, which has been wrung 
out of tepid water or warm milk. Wipe dry, and then polish 
with encaustic No. 1, or simply oil with the turpentine and 
oil. Apply the polish with a soft cloth, using a circular mo- 
tion. The cloth should be only slightly moistened with the 
mixture: Polish with a soft cloth, rubbing with the grain of 
the wood. All stains must be removed from the wood be- 
fore it is polished. 

Leather Furniture.— Dust the furniture carefully, and wash 
the leather with a soft cloth wrung out of hot milk, rubbing 
until dry; then polish with encaustic No. 1, putting the pol- 
ish on lightly. Polish with a soft cloth; if the leather is 
dark, it may be polished with oil and turpentine. 

Marble, Tiles, etc.— Marble is easily destroyed, and most 
of the injuries it receives are difficult to repair. 

Acids dissolve marble readily; the stronger the acid, the 
more rapid its action. The smooth, fine finish given to mar- 
ble is not only for beauty, but also for protection. 
If this finish is destroyed, the rough surface is more ^^^^To^^ 
easily soiled and stained. Even the mildest acid marUe. 
will remove the polish. A piece of lemon left on 
a basin, mantel-shelf, or table for even a few moments will 
roughen the surface of the marble. 

As all acids are neutralized by an alkali, the latter should 
be immediately poured on the marble when an acid To nentra- 
has been spilled on it. There are so many alkalis ^Ji2i ^ 
at hand in nearly every household— ammonia, soda, marUe. 

6 



66 HOME ECONOMICS 

borax, for example— that this is not difficult to do. If the 
acid has remained long enough on the marble to dissolve the 
surface, the finish may be restored in a measure by rubbing 
the rough spot with pumice-stone and water. A generous 
bed of the pumice-stone should be spread on the injured 
place; this should then be wet with water and rubbed with 
a large, flat stone. It takes a great deal of pressure and 
much rubbing to get a smooth surface again. The work 
might be done from time to time, say for twenty minutes or 
half an hour every day, until the polish returns. 

Stains on marble are often difficult to remedy, 
^J®*"*^^ because the agent used to remove the stain might 
ing ■taini. injure the marble. Acids must, of course, be 
avoided, but alkalis may be used with safety. 

Oil- or grease-spots, when of recent occurrence, may be 
removed by absorption and neutralization. Fullers' earth and 
French chalk are two of the best agents for absorb- 
oUo^greaM ^^S grease. Caustic soda or lye will saponify it 
with fuU- and so neutralize it. It is often expedient to com- 
*J^^^ bine these two methods. 

If grease is spilled on marble, make a strong, hot 
solution of sal-soda, and add enough fullers' earth to make 
a thin paste; spread this on the spot, and let it remain for 
twenty-four hours. If the stain has not fully disappeared at 
the end of that time, repeat the application. 

Wood-ashes may also be applied to grease-spots with suc- 
cess. Boil water and wood-ashes together for half an hour, 
and add enough whiting to make a thick paste. Spread this 
on the stain as directed for fullers' earth. 

The ordinary care of marble is simple enough. It should 
be washed with a soft cloth and soap and water. If it is very 
much soiled, it may be cleaned with any one of the sand soaps 
or pumice-stone and soap. If the marble lacks luster after 
this treatment, polish it with encaustic No. 1 or No. 2. 

Tiles are cleaned and polished in the same manner. 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 67 



TO CLEAN MATTING 

In the care of matting, it must be remembered that the 
less water used on it the better, and that all alkalis and 
soaps tend to discolor it. 

Have a care that nothing that will soil the mat- SubBtenoM 
ting is dropped or spilled on it. tomi^Dg. 

Sweep the matting with a soft brush, and then 
go over it with a damp cloth to remove all dust. 

If there are soiled spots, try to remove them by rubbing 
with a cloth wrung out of hot water. 

If grease or oil has been spilled, make a thin paste with 
fullers' earth and cold water, and spread thickly ^^ ^^ 
on the spot. When this dries lay a paper over it, grease or 
and let it stand two or three days. Brush off the ^J^^ 
dry earth, and the stain will have disappeared. ^^* 

Should water be spilled on a matting, wipe it as j^ remove 
dry as possible, and let the windows stand open moiitiire 
until the matting is dry; or, if the weather is too ^^^^ 
cold or damp for this, dry the matting by apply- 
ing heat. Lay a dry cloth over the wet place, and go over 
it with a hot flat-iron until all moisture is removed. 

\ 

HOW TO WASH WINDOWS 

Remove all dust from the windows, both inside and out- 
side. If the woodwork requires cleaning, do this before the 
glass is washed. Use a wooden skewer and a cloth to re- 
move dust from comers and grooves. 

The glass may be washed with clear water, water nateriaia 
in which has been put a little liquid ammonia, soda, forthe 
or soap, or it may be cleaned, like paint, with ^JJ^^JJ^' 
whiting. The essential thing is to get a clean, 
perfectly polished glass. 



68 HOME EGONOMIGS 

Have plenty of clean, soft cloths and some soft paper, 
crumpled newspapers answer very well. Have a pail of tepid 
water. Dip the washing-cloth in this and then squeeze al- 
most dry. Rub the glass with the damp cloth, rinsing it fre- 
quently. After all the dirt has been removed in this manner, 
rub diy with a clean, soft cloth, and then polish with soft 
paper. Be careful to get all the comers clean. 

If the glass is cleaned with whiting, make a thin cream of 
water and whiting. Dip a clean cloth in this, and polish the 
glass as you would silver. Rub off the whiting with soft 
paper, and polish with clean soft paper. 

The whiting may be wet with dilute alcohol or household 
ammonia. This mixture cleans the glass quickly, 
fleent of ^^^ secret of cleaning windows satisfactorily is 
in to have the cloths clean, to use plenty of them. 



^^'^ and not to use water so freely that it drips from 
pane or sash. 



CLEANING COPPER AND BRASSES 

There are so many excellent preparations on the market 
for cleaning copper and brasses that it is not necessary to 
make the polishes at home for this purpose. At the same 
time, it is well to know how various substances affect these 
metals, and why we use them. 

Acids clean copper and brasses readily; but unless all 
traces of them are immediately removed, the metal will tar- 
^gg^^ ^ nish quickly. Whenever the simple acids, or acids 
add! on and salt, are used, they must be washed off at 
^^taSii^ once with pure water. If the articles so cleaned 
are boilers, andirons, ornaments, etc., the clean- 
ing should be followed by a rubbing with rottenstone or 
t^rlpoli and oil. After a thorough treatment of this kind^ 
brasses and copper articles will remain untarnished for a 
long time. If a cleaning preparation contains an acid,— 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 69 

and nearly all the preparations on the market do,— the clean- 
ing'should be followed by an application of whiting, which will 
neutralize the acid and preserve the surface from tarnishing. 

Cleaning preparations that contain naphtha or an acid ac- 
complish the work much more quickly than when oil and 
rottenstone only are used. 

Brasses cleaned with oil and rottenstone alone, tainiV 
or with tripoli, will have a soft, rich yellow tone. cUiferent 
When acids and naphtha are used, the color is ^tionaT^ 
whiter and, of course, less rich. 

Bearing all these points in mind, one may select Beleotion 
the cleaning substance that will give the result robrtSuwf 
aimed at, be that the durability of the work, the 
quickness with which it may be accomplished, or the color 
desired. 

To Clean with an Add and Salt— Wash thoroughly the 
article which is to be cleaned. Mix common salt and oxalic 
acid or vinegar in a saucer. Dip a soft cloth in deanimr 
this, and rub the surface until all tarnish is re- withozalio 
moved. Wash the article in plenty of water, and *^ti!"* 
then wipe perfectly dry. This method is fre- 
quently used in cleaning cooking utensils, in which case the 
greatest care must be taken to wash the saucepan, etc., 
thoroughly after the treatment. 

Brasses or copper that are very much tarnished may be 
washed in a solution of sal-soda to remove all grease, then 
rubbed with acid, either oxalic acid, lemon-juice, ^^ ^-^^^ 
or strong vinegar, and washed thoroughly, wiping with sal- 
dry. Polish with rottenstone or tripoli and sweet- ^^ ^ 
oil, using a woolen cloth, and rubbing hard. Wipe 
oflf the oil and scouring mixture, and go over the surface 
with a dry flannel and dry tripoli or rottenstone; finish with 
a soft, clean cloth. If the article has not a thick coat of 
tarnish, the washing with soda or acid may be omitted; but 
it is important that the surface be cleaned from all grease. 



70 HOME ECONOMICS 

The above method should be followed when any of the 
cleaning preparations found in the market are employed, ex- 
cept that whiting should be substituted for tripoli, oil, or rot- 
tenstone in the final polishing. 

Brasses and copper articles retain their brightness, after 
they have been properly cleaned, a long time when kept in a 
dry atmosphere; but when exposed to dampness they tarnish 
quickly. 

HOW TO CLEAN PAINTED WOODWORK 

Painted, and varnished surfaces should be treated with 
great consideration. It is possible in a few minutes to do 
Chemioait *^ amount of damage that cannot be repaired in 
should be days. The careless use of chemicals on these fin- 
uedwiih jg}jgg causes the greater part of the trouble. If 
we can but fix in our minds the effect some chem- 
icals have on certain materials, it will help us to use them 
more intelligently. 

Paint is softened by wet alkalis; when the solution is 
strong enough it dissolves the paint. 

The alkalis most commonly used in the household are 

ammonia, sal-soda, potash, and borax. The most caustic of 

How to ^^636 alkalis are potash and sal-soda; the least 

test the caustic is borax. If we take a board which has 

^2^^' been painted or varnished, and put a few drops 

each of a solution of soda, potash, ammonia, and 

borax on different parts, we can see how each affects the 

paint; the stronger the solution of any of them, of course 

the more quickly it will soften the paint. The same kind 

of a test might be made with a varnished surface. 

The efbot, If we now repeat the experiment on new spots, 

added to ^^^ almost as soon as the liquids have been 

alkaline dropped on the painted or varnished surface we 

to^nratea^ add a few drops of oil, stirring it well, we will find 

liie. that the paint or varnish is only slightly dam- 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 71 

aged. The oil neutralized the power of the alkalis, and the 
injury done to the paint or varnish was the work of the few 
moments before the t)il was added. If, however, the oil was 
applied in too small a quantity to wholly neutralize the alkali, 
the latter would continue its destructive work, but very 
slowly and feebly. If a large quantity of the oil is added 
instantly when the alkaline solution is dropped on the board, 
the effect upon the finish will be scarcely perceptible. We 
have learned from this simple experiment: 

1. That paints and varnishes may be dissolved by the 
alkalis in common use in the household, and that the 
stronger the solution, the more rapidly it acts. 

2. That the destructive action of the alkali be'ieiunied 
may be arrested by the application of any oily trom these 
substance. m^' 

If there is not enough oil to wholly neutralize 
the alkali, the action will go on feebly; but if there is enough 
oil, or an excess of it, all destructive action is arresteJ. 

Putting this knowledge to a practical use, we have been 
taught that no strong alkali should be put on painted or var- 
nished surfaces; that no strong caustic soaps in case of 
should be used on paint or varnish; that in case analkallne 
of accident where an alkali is spilled on a painted " ^fj^ 
or varnished surface, some sort of oil or fat spiUedon 
should be instantly poured on the spot. Gener- ^^^^^ 
ally the oil nearest at hand is salad-oil, and this snxfRoeadd 

is such a pure oil that it is excellent for such a ^'^ '"- 
^ stantfy, 

purpose. 

In cleaning painted or varnished surfaces we ^^i^,^^ 
should keep in mind what we have learned in of strong 
these experiments, and avoid the use of alkalis JJ^Jj?' 
and strong soaps. 

When the paint is to be cleaned, have the room thoroughly 
swept and dusted, walls, ceiling, grooves, and ledges. Use a 
painter's brush to remove the dust from the grooves and 



72 HOME ECONOMICS 

corners. Mix some whiting and cold water to the consistency 

of thick cream. Three woolen cloths and some soft white 

How to cotton cloths will be necessary. There should also 

dean paint be two pails, each half filled with hot water, and 

^^ a small wooden skewer such as butchers use. Put 
* a woolen cloth in each pail of water, and keep the 
third one dry. Press nearly all the water from one of the 
cloths, dip it in the whiting mixture, and begin cleaning 
the paint. Rub hard, with an upward and downward stroke, 
when plain walls are being cleaned; in woodwork, follow the 
slight grain left by the painter's brush. Next, carefully 
wash off all the whiting, using the water and cloth in the 
second pail; then wring the cloth dry, and wipe the surface 
with this. Now rub dry with the dry woolen or cotton cloth. 
This final rubbing gives a smooth finish to the paint that not 
only improves its appearance, but tends to keep it clean much 
longer than if the surface were left half dried. All the 
grooves and comers should be cleaned with a bit of the cloth 
on the point of the wooden skewer. 

Begin at the top and work downward, washing a space 
about a yard square. Never use water enough to have it 
run on the wall in little streams; this leaves a 
^JjJ^™" streaked surface. 

mnoii wa- If the paint is very smoky or oily, a tablespoon- 
tor and let- fyj\ Qf household ammonia may be added to each 

uUfFltXOTXII 

Streaks, gallon of water. 

Should soap be preferred to the whiting, make 
suds with it; but do not rub soap on the cloth, except in cases 
where the suds will not remove the dirt. 

Enamel finishes require different treatment from ordinary 
paint. They are finished, like fine varnishes, by being rubbed 
down with water and tripoli. 

Wipe off all the dust, and then wipe with a clean 

^aSSl woolen cloth wrung as dry as possible in hot water. 

finishes. Rub dry with a second woolen or cotton cloth. The 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 73 

dry rubbing is important, as it gives the surface brilliancy. 
Should there be soiled places which the damp cloth will not 
clean, put a little wet powdered tripoli on a small piece of 
flannel, and rub gently until the stain has entirely disap- 
peared. Be careful not to use so much pressure that the 
powder will cut through the varnish. Polish with the dry 
cloth. Should you not have the tripoli, powdered pumice- 
stone will answer. 

Care of Natural-Wood Kmsh.— To have the interior of the 
house finished in the natural wood is a great boon to the 
housekeeper, provided she takes proper care of it. One 
should avoid using water on these woods as much as possible. 
Oil and turpentine or alcohol is the best substance with which 
to treat them, as it preserves the finish and the wood. When 
any place on the wood becomes very much soiled, it may be 
cleaned by rubbing with a woolen cloth wet with turpentine 
or kerosene. The turpentine removes the gloss, and should 
be followed with oil. A little tripoli can be moistened with 
oil and the spot cleaned with this. Once a year go over the 
woodwork with a mixture of parafiin-oil and tur- _ 
pontine, using equal parts of the oil and tur- dry or 
pontine, unless the finish looks dry and cracked, ^5J*** 
in which case rub in the pure oil. On dark 
wood, when the finish has this dry, cracked, or faded look, 
the boiled linseed-oil is better than the parafiin-oil. The oil 
should be thoroughly rubbed in, and if one application does 
not bring back the color and finish, apply about once in two 
weeks until the surface is restored. It is only when the 
finished surface is exposed to heat, sun, or moisture that 
these conditions are likely to appear, as, for exam- 
pie, the woodwork near steam-pipes, registers, win- J^ ^„^ 
dows, sinks, or in bath-rooms, etc. The frequent 
application of oil, well rubbed in, will keep such exposed 
places in good condition. Outside doors should be oiled with 
pure boiled linseed-oil several times each year. 



74 HOME ECONOMIGS 

When the regular yearly cleaning is being done, have the 

woodwork of the room brushed and wiped free from every 

particle of dust. Moisten a woolen cloth with 

^tSw^ ' *^® mixture of oil and turpentine, and rub the 

woodwork, wood finish. Follow this with a dry woolen cloth, 

rubbing hard to give a polish. 

If the odor of turpentine is objectionable, and expense is 
not a serious question, wood-alcohol may be substituted for 
the turpentine. 

If there are any bruised or scratched places on the wood- 
work, restore the color and finish before oiling. (See " To 
Restore Color and Finish to Woods.") 

CARE OP WINDOW-SASHES 

Window-sashes that are finished in oil or varnish require 
special care. They are often exposed to the heat of the sun 
and to moisture caused by steam condensing on the cold 
glass or the melting of frost in winter, etc. The 
j^9Jjg^ heat of the sun draws the oil from the finish, and 
lafhes various other conditions combine to destroy the 
?^* ^ finish on this part of the woodwork sooner than 
moUtiiro. that in any other part of the room. If the wood 
is kept well oiled all this damage can be avoided. 
Have a little boiled linseed-oil in a shallow cup. Make a 
small soft pad, and dip it in the oil. Rub this on the sash, 
being careful not to get any on the glass, as it 
rft^!Sf takes time to remove it. Be generous to the part 
wSesr where the top and bottom sashes meet, as this is 
the place that receives the greatest proportion of 
sun and moisture. This oiling might be done once a month. 
When the sashes have been neglected and they have be- 
come rough and dry, rub them smooth with sandpaper, oil 
with boiled linseed-oil, and then put on a finish as directed 
in " To Restore Color and Finish to Woods." 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 75 



CARE OP DINING-ROOM 

The dining-room should be kept in perfect order, and it 
should be clean and free from odors. There are reasons for 
and against a carpet in this room. Woolen car- oweotionto 
pets absorb odors, and, if anything happens to be carpet in 
spilled on them, are more difficult to clean than ^ini^s- 
is the bare floor, or a rug which may be carried out "*"^ 
and aired with ease. On the other hand, noiseless service 
is more difficult on the polished floor, and there is danger of 
accidents from slipping. Two or three breadths of fine Jap- 
anese matting, sewed together to make a square, and the 
ends bound, make a very satisfactory rug for the center of 
the dining-room. Whether the floor is carpeted 
or polished, it should be brushed each morning, ing-room' 
The room must be thoroughly aired and dusted ■houidbe 
each day. Once a week there should be a thor- cleaned, 
ough cleaning of this room as directed in " Gen- 
eral Rule for Cleaning a Room." In this general cleaning 
the closets, sideboards, shelves, etc., should have special care. 
The table should be rubbed free from spots, and be oiled or 
waxed, as the case may be. All spots on wood must be wiped 
oflf and the windows washed. 

In addition to the thorough airing in the morning, the 
dining-room should be aired for a short time after each meal, 
even in the coldest weather. 

CARE OP TABLEWARE 

Silver.— If washed in plenty of soap and hot water and 
rubbed dry with clean, soft towels each time it is used, the 
silver will not often require cleaning. 

To clean the silver, first wash it in hot suds, and wipe it. 
Cover a table or a large tray with thick paper. Have fine 



76 HOME ECONOMICS 

French whiting which has been sifted. Put a portion of this 
whiting in a saucer, and wet it with diluted alcohol or am- 
monia. With a soft cloth apply this mixture and 

^JjJ^2i^ ^'^ ^^ *^® silver. Spread on the paper to dry. 

When all is finished rub the whiting off the sil- 
ver with a soft, clean cloth; then polish with chamois. A 
soft brush will be required for grooves and chased work. 

This cleaning with whiting should not be necessary of tener 
than once a month, except where an article is tarnished by 

eggs or some such substance, in which case clean 
tn„2ihing. ^*h whiting. If the silver tarnishes quickly there 

must be some gases in the house; therefore gas- 
pipes and drain-pipes should be inspected. 

It must be remembered that constant rubbing wears away 
the silver, and that any substance that will clean a tarnished 

metal without much friction will probably attack 
teS^t the metal also. 
of silyer. Silver should be kept by itself; hard substances, 

like steel knives, scratch it. 
The handles of the knives should not be allowed to go into 
the dish-pan; they should be held in the dry left hand while 
the blades are washed with a cloth in the right hand. 

Care of Spots may be removed and the polished surface 

ivory-han- restored to ivory handles by rubbing with powdered 

k2voi pnmice-stone and water. This means a good deal 

of hard rubbing, if done by hand. 
Glass.— There is a great diversity of opinion as to the best 
methods of washing glass. Cold water answers very well for 
articles that are not much soiled and have had no oily sub- 
stance near them. Ammonia or soda in the water cleanses 
the glass readily and gives a luster. Soapy water also cleans 
the glass easily. When glass is washed in cold water it 
should drain until nearly dry. It must then be polished with 
a clean, soft towel. It is more difficult to wash in cold 
water, and it takes longer to polish the glass. 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 77 

Glass that has been washed in warm water with either 
soda, ammonia, or soap should be wiped at once. 

A soft brush is required for cleaning cut glass. A clean 
towel should be spread on a tray, and each piece, Care of 
as it is wiped, should be placed on this. ®^* *^''* 

This precaution is particularly necessary with dishes that 
are deeply cut at the bottom. When placed on polished 
wood the moisture produces a white mark. Fine 
sawdust is very good for cut glass; it absorbs the yj*JjS 
moisture from those parts that cannot be reached oS;iiaM.' 
with the cloth. After wiping the glass, bury it 
in a bed of sawdust, and let it remain half an hour or more. 
When the glass is removed from the sawdust, brush it with 
a soft brush, and polish with a soft cloth. 

A word of caution must be said here. The sawdust should 
come from a non-resinous wood, such as box or basswood; it 
must be fine, and free from any hard substance. If saw- 
dust from pine or any resinous wood is used, the resin will 
stick to the glass, and it will be found most difficult to 
remove. The sawdust should be spread out to dry after 
having been used; in this way it may be employed a number 
of times. 

One thing must always be remembered: to scratch glass is 
to weaken that part, so that a little extra heat or cold, or a 
slight jar, will cause a break at that point. A 
grain of sand at the bottom of the dish-pan, or on ^^[JJ^' 
the dish-cloth, may make this little scratch which on glass, 
will split your beautiful dish in twain. 

China,— The dishes should be scraped clean, and then 
rinsed off with clear water. Wash them in soapy water, 
rinse in clear hot water, and drain and wipe dry. 

Do not place one dish upon another as they Hnstnotbe 
are wiped. Spread them out to cool off, then P^*^ ^® 
put them together. Piling them together while another, 
warm is apt to crack the glaze. 



78 HOME ECONOMICS 

Put only a few dishes in the pan at a time. Do not use 
much soap on gilt china. 

. Before beginning to wash dishes, have them all 

UtOofoap sorted and put in groups, keeping those of the 

^J^* same kind together. 

Wash, rinse, and wipe one group before be- 
ginning another. 

In wiping dishes the hands should not come in contact with 
the dish. Hold the dish in the left hand, having the towel 
How diih '^^w®®^ hsLiid and dish. Never wipe with a towel 
and towal that has become wet. 

"^dl^ Glass, silver, and china should present a bril- 
liant surface when the wiping is finished. This 
can only be done by washing them very clean, and wiping 
thoroughly with a soft, clean towel. 

The towels should be washed, rinsed, and hung out to dry 
after the dishes are finished. 

Pewter, Britannia, and block-tinware are often used on the 

table in the form of tea- and coflfee-pots, dish-covers, and 

chafing-dishes. These can be polished with pow- 

pewter, dered rottenstone and oil, or oil and whiting, or 

Britannia, in the same way that silver is polished. 

"^wwe." Wash the article first in hot soap and water, 

and wipe dry. Dampen a cloth with sweet-oil, 

and rub it over the article to be polished. Put rottenstone 

or whiting on a piece of soft, dry flannel, and rub over the 

oiled surface. Then polish with dry whiting and chamois. 

Steel knives are polished with soft soap, Bristol brick, and 
a large cork. 

Wash the knives in soap and water, and wipe dry. Have 
a smooth board on which rests the blade of the knife per- 

Heihod of ^^^^'y ^^*' ^^P *^® ^^^^ ^ *^® QOQ,^, then in the 
ofpoUihing powdered brick, and rub the steel until all stains 
^^ are removed. Then polish off with dry powdered 
brick, and wipe with a soft cloth. 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 79 

To keep steel from rusting, cover with sweet-oil or mutton 
tallow, and wrap in soft paper. 

To remove rust, put oil and quicklime on the To xemore 
rusted article. After several days rub with oil "■*• 
and rottenstone or Bristol brick. 

CARE OP KITCHEN AND PANTRIES 

The kitchen and pantries should be well lighted and 
aired. Nothing that will hold odors, such as woolen car- 
pets or draperies, should form a part of the fur- 
nishing of any of these rooms. The woodwork ventflar 
should be of natural wood, varnished or oiled, and tion, toht, 
the walls should be painted or covered with a "* ^^ 
paper that may be washed. 

The floors in this part of the house are something of a 
problem. White boards are exceedingly attractive when in 
good condition, but they require infinite care. A jiqq„ ^f 
hard-wood floor, properly oiled, is quite satisf ac- kitohtn 
tory; so is a well-painted and -varnished floor. "A^*^" 
Oil-cloth makes a clean and pleasing covering, 
and one that is easily kept clean. I should never advise its 
use, however, as it is cold for the feet. Linoleum is a most 
satisfactory floor-covering. It may be cleaned with ease, it 
is soft, warm, and elastic, and wears well. 

Tables and shelves, like the floors, when in white wood and 
kept in good condition are a delight to the eye; but to main- 
tain them in this state nieans much work. Painted 
or varnished shelves are clean, and may be kept so ^^ 
with little trouble. A covering of white enameled 
cloth on the shelves and kitchen tables looks particularly 
well, and the work of taking care of it is very light. These 
coverings should be laid on smoothly and held in place with 
small tacks. Heat destroys the enamel, therefore hot dishes 
must not be placed directly on these covers. 



80 HOME EGONOMIGS 

The daily care of kitchen and pantries consists of sweep* 
ing and dusting, wiping or washing of shelves, tables, and 
DaU eare ^^^^9 ^^^ *^® cleaning of the sink and range, 
of Utohen etc. 

"^PJ^" Strong soaps and alkalis should not be used 
on paint or varnishes. They soften and remove 
the dirt quickly, but they also soften and remove the paint 
and varnish. 

The varnished or oiled woodwork in the kitchen, pantries, 

back halls, etc., may be kept clean by wiping it with a 

Care of ^^^^^^ cloth wrung out of hot water, and then 

▼aniiihed rubbing smooth and dry with a dry cloth. Pinger- 

^^•* marks may be removed by rubbing them with wet 

whiting; the whiting should then be wiped off and 

the surface wiped dry. Painted walls may be kept clean in 

the same way. 

CARE OP THE FLOORS 

A hard-wood floor, if properly oiled, is quite satisfactory; 
but if it is badly done it is a constant source of annoyance. 
OUediloon ^^^ oiling of the floors in the back part of the 
house, as a general rule, must be done in the even- 
ing, after the work of the day is finished. This oiling is 
sometimes done by a member of the family, but quite as often 
a painter is employed who is accustomed to that kind of work. 
Whoever does the oiling, there are three things upon which 
success largely depends: Pirst, there should be no floating 
dust in the room, and the floor must be absoltUely clean. Sec- 
ond, the oil must be of the right kind and in the proper con- 
dition. Third, the oil must be rubbed into the boards thor- 
oughly, so as to leave a perfectly smooth surface. 

Boiled linseed-oil dries more quickly than the 

Uiueed-oil. ^^ ^^^' ^* ^^ ^^^^ ^ ^^^ ^ '^^*^® turpentine, as it 
will make the oil less sticky. It must be remem- 
bered that with the oiled floor, as with all surf aces, the more 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 81 

highly polished it is, the longer it will keep clean. There- 
fore it should be rubbed with a dry flannel once or twice a 
week. 

The daily care of the oiled floor consists of ^^^j,^ 
sweeping it with a hair brush, and, if there are floors, 
any soiled spots, of wiping them off with a flannel 
cloth wrung out of hot water. If this does not remove all 
the dirt, a little soap may be rubbed on the cloth. 

Once a week wipe the floor with a damp cloth, using soap 
when it is necessary; wipe very dry, and then go all over the 
floor with a cloth made damp with kerosene or 
boiled oil and turpentine. This should be rubbed ^*t™fi»* 
in thoroughly, and the floor should not be walked a week, 
on, if it is possible to avoid it, for an hour or more. 
The windows should be left open, that the odor of the oil may 
pass off. Cover an old brush with a woolen cloth, and rub 
the floor; it will take a fine polish. 

See " Care of Polished Floors," for method of oiling floors. 

The painted or varnished floors in the back part of the 
house are usually ruined with soap and water and scrubbing- 
brushes. Strong soaps, soda or ammonia, and a 
scrubbing-brush, in the hands of a vigorous woman, ^*^^^Ji' 
will remove the greater part of the paint or var- floors, 
nish from a floor in a short time. As little water, 
soap, or alkalis as possible should be used on these surfaces. 

Sweep the floor, and wipe off the dust with a damp cloth. 
If this will not remove all the dirt, use a woolen cloth wrung 
out of hot water. If the spot is very dirty it may 
be necessary to put a little soap on the cloth. Rub treatmwit 
hard with the woolen cloth, but never use a scrub- of pamted 
bing-brush. Once a week, after having swept and ^^-^^^ 
wiped the floor clean, go over it with a cloth damp- floors, 
ened with one part boiled oil and one part tur- 
pentine, or kerosene may be used instead. The work of 
caring for a floor in this manner is much less than when a 



82 HOME ECONOMICS 

great deal of water and soap is used; and, moreover, the 
floor is in a sanitary condition, because the boards are dry 
and clean. 

On a farm where milk is abundant the floor may be washed 
with hot milk and water; it must be wiped perfectly dry after 
this treatment. 

Lmoleum Oil-cloth and linoleum may be treated in the 
same manner as a painted or varnished floor. 

For cleaning white boards, whether they are in floors or 

tables, there is nothing better than fine sand and water that 

is warm but not hot. The boards should be scoured 

y^^^ with sand and water, then washed with clear warm 

and tables, water, and thoroughly dried. The rubbing should 

always be in the direction of the grain of the wood. 

This treatment will keep boards beautifully white. Great 
care must be taken to wash every particle of sand from the 
tables, and to see that none gets into the sink or dish-pan. 
A scratch from a grain of sand might be the trifle that would 

cause the breakage of a piece of fine glass. 
SCTeasli- Grease-spots on tables and floors may be treated 

spots. in several ways. (See " Stains on Wood.'') 

CARE OF KITCHEN UTENSILS 

On the proper care of the kitchen utensils depends to a 
great degree the healthfulness and success of the cooked 
food. No matter how many utensils there are, 
i^^e^of ^^ ^^^ perfect they may be, unless they are kept 
thorough- in good condition they will not do satisfactory work. 
^?ki^lfl^* Asaucepan from which the enamel has been chipped, 
utensUs. or which has been burned black and rough, will 
spoil the flavor and appearance of any preparation 
cooked in it; a tin dish which has rusted, or from which the 
tin has been scratched, will also ruin the flavor and appear- 
ance of food, and so it is through the whole category. 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 83 

Systematic thoroughness, then, in the care of the kitchen 
utensils is absolutely necessary for their preservation and for 
perfection in cooking. With the proper appliances this is 
not a difficult task. 

Plenty of hot water, soap, and towels, and willing hands 
are all that are needed to keep these articles in good order. 
Soiled utensils should not be left standing for the 
particles of food to harden on them; nor should a ^f*^®? ®^ 
knife or spoon be used to scrape off these adher- ntenriS. 
ing particles; such treatment soon destroys the 
enamel or plate. If a substance clings stubbornly to a dish 
or stew-pan, use the dish-cloth of wire rings. This cleans 
quickly, without scratching or otherwise injuring the surface. 

As soon as each dish or stew-pan is emptied of its contents 
it should be filled with water; when dish-washing time comes, 
it will be found that all clinging particles are thoroughly 
soaked and may be rinsed oflf before the dishes are put into 
the pan of hot, soapy water. 

There should be no stint in towels, soap, and hot water. 
Towels for silver, glass, and china should be of linen. A 
loosely woven cheap linen crash makes the best • 
toweling for the cooking utensils. A closely ^^^jjjjf*^ 
woven, stiff towel is most difficult to' wash, and doths. 
it must be half worn before it will wipe articles 
dry. There should be long cotton and linen towels in 
reach for handling hot pots and pans. A good length for 
these towels is forty-two inches. Then, there should be soft 
towels for the hands, a mixture of cotton and linen being 
better than all linen for this purpose. Two linen dish- 
cloths,— which, by the way, should not be used after they 
have become so worn that they will leave lint on the dishes, 
—a wire dish-cloth, and a bunch of wooden skewers are in- 
dispensable. 

All kitchen utensils should be washed and wiped as care- 
fully as the dining-room china. 



84 HOME EGONOMIGS 

Here is a good rule for the daily care of utensils. We 

will take it for granted that pots, pans, bowls, etc., were put 

to soak as soon as they were emptied of their 

rule for the contents. Rinse oflf all particles of food that 

care of cling to the utensils. If there are spots where 

j ^J^^ the substance has stuck or burned on, rub with 

the wire dish-cloth until all traces are removed; 

never scrape with a knife or spoon. When all the dishes are 

cleaned in this way, fill a dish-pan half full of hot water, well 

soaped; nearly fill a second pan with clear hot water. Begin 

by washing the earthenware in the hot suds, rinse in the hot 

water, drain, and then wipe with clean, dry towels. Follow 

this method with the tins and granite-ware, then with the 

ironware, changing the waters, of course, as they become 

soiled or cool. Wash the outside and bottom of the utensils 

as carefully as the inside. 

Any utensil in which frying has been done must be wiped 
with soft newspaper to remove all the grease before it is put 
in the water for washing. Use plenty of soap and very hot 
water when washing greasy cooking utensils. If f rjring-pans 
or kettles become rough and dark they can be made smooth 
and bright by scouring with soap and wood-ashes. 

Tin and iron should'be wiped while still hot. 

All grooves in cooking utensils may be cleaned with a 
wooden skewer. 

In thinking over the care of the kitchen, pantries, utensils, 

etc., it seems almost more important to speak of the things 

one should not do, rather than the things one should do; for a 

great deal of damage can be done in a short time, and the task 

of repairing it is discouraging and sometimes almost hopeless. 

Ironware New iron is one of the most difficult materials 

improvee one has to deal with in kitchen utensils; as it 

grows older, and the surface becomes more smooth 

with use and proper treatment, it is comparatively easy to 

keep it in good condition. 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 85 

It should be borne in mind that acids tend to cause rust 
on iron, while soda and fats make the surface E^eetof 
smooth and prevent rust. Moisture also causes aoid«,goda, 
rust. "^^ '**»• 

The inside of new iron utensils should be coated with fresh 
mutton tallow and allowed to stand a few days. At the end 
of that time they should be heated gradually until 
the fat melts, and then washed in hot water in Treatment 
which washing-soda has been dissolved. One utensils, 
tablespoonful of the soda should be used with 
every two quarts of water. A mop should be used for 
this washing, as the strong solution of soda would injure 
the hands. Rinse the utensils in hot water, and wipe them 
dry with a clean, dry, coarse towel, rubbing very hard. If 
food or cloths are darkened by the utensil after this treat- 
ment, it should be scoured with soap and sand, after which 
it will give very little, if any, trouble. 

The treatment of ironware, after this, is very simple. As 
soon as the utensil has been emptied, when food has been 
cooked in it, fill it with water, and let it rest on the back of 
the range until you are ready to wash it. All particles of 
food adhering to it will be softened by this means, and may 
be washed off before the utensil is put in the dish-pan. 
Have hot soapy water in readiness; put one utensil at a time 
into the pan, and wash the inside and outside with equal care. 
When all the saucepans, kettles, etc., have been washed in 
this manner, rinse them in hot water, drain them, and wipe 
first with the dish-cloth, and then with a dry crash towel, rub- 
bing hard. 

This is the only treatment that will insure a perfect con- 
dition of iron- or steelware. Scouring the inside of iron or 
steel articles with any kind of sand soap or mineral soap 
makes the surface smooth and bright. Frying-pans, griddles, 
omelet-pans, etc., may be kept in perfect condition by this 
means. 



86 HOME ECONOMIGS 

TINWARE 

Wash tinware in hjot soapy water, rinse it in clear hot 
water, and wipe dry with a dry dish-towel. Articles made 
of tin should not be put on the range to dry, as 
^-tS" they are apt to be larkened or mSted by^is 
treatment. When they need cleaning, wash them 
thoroughly in strong soap-suds, and clean them with whiting 
or sand soap; then wash, rinse, and wipe dry. Sand should 
never be used for scouring tins, as it cuts through the soft 
metal, leaving bare tiny lines of iron that soon make thei/ 
presence known by fine streaks of rust. 

There are several cleaning-materials that are free fronr 
hard, cutting particles which may be safely used on tina, 
enamels, etc., among others being sifted whiting, kaolin, 
sifted wood-ashes, that may be taken from the fluec; under 
the oven or from the dust-flue in the furnace. There is a 
soap on the market, which is largely composed of kaolin, that 
is excellent for cleaning paint, tins, windows, et<%, since it 
removes all dirt without scratching the surface. 

WOODENWARE 

Wash all woodenware in hot soapy water, flnse in clear 
hot water, and wipe with a dry towel. Woodenware may be 
put in the sun to dry, but never near the fire, as great dry 
heat cracks the wood. Pastry-boards, meat-bowls, and other 
bowls may be scoured as directed for white tables. 

Wash Wooden bowls in which fat meats and vegeta- 

wai«ii?tii ^^^^ ^^^® ^^®^ chopped sometimes retain the flavor 
sods to re- and odor of the substance that has been in them. 
move odor. These may be removed by soaking the bowl in hot 
soda-water, using one teaspoonful of soda to one quart of 
water. 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 87 

Utensils in which fish or other food that imparts an odor 
or flavor has been cooked should be boiled for a short time 
in soda-water. This can be done. by putting a quart to deodor- 
of water and a small piece of washing-soda, or a i» cooMng 
teaspoonful of baking-soda, into the saucepan or ^ 
kettle, and placing it on the range where the water will boil. 

Wood-ashes are excellent for cleaning and deodorizing iron 
and tin utensils. Put a gill of wood-ashes and a pint of water 
in the stew-pan or kettle, and place it on the fire where it 
will simmer for half an hour. Let the mixture cool partly, 
then scour the utensil with it, using a coarse cloth, or a coil 
of grass or hay if one lives in the country and has it at hand. 

THE TEA-KETTLE 

The tea-kettle is one of the problems of the kitchen. It 
is difiicult to keep it free from rust. If it could always be 
emptied and wiped dry when not needed, this might be pre- 
vented; but hot water is constantly in demand, and the tea- 
kettle seems to be the place where it should be found. 

When water cools slowly in a covered vessel, globules of 
steam gather on the cover, sides, and bottom. Tiny spots 
of rust will soon appear, which grow as time goes 
on, until finally the whole interior surface is cov- *^° 
ered. This is what happens in the tea-kettle from 
day to day. The remedy is to empty the kettle while it is 
hot, rinse it out, and wipe it dry. 

In any case, the tea-kettle should be washed out every day; 
for even clean water will be found to leave a deposit. This 
washing out had better be done in the evening, 
when the work for the day is over; it will insure tea!ketae. 
thorough drying, and will do a great deal toward 
preserving the tea-kettle in good condition. There are tea- 
kettles that are lined with white enamel, which can easily 
be kept in good condition. 



88 HOME EGONOMIGS 



TEA-POTS AND COFFEE-POTS 

Tea-pots and coffee-pots require the most thorough clean- 
ing daily. They should be freed from grounds or leaves, 
rinsed in cold water, and washed with clear hot water. They 
should then be scalded with boiling water, wiped dry, and 
placed where they may be thoroughly aired. 

CARE OF THE REFRIGERATOR 

The refrigerator is nearly always on the same floor with 
the kitchen. It should be placed where it may be well lighted 

and aired, and on no consideration should the 
Situatioii. waste-pipe of the refrigerator be connected with 

the drain-pipe of the house. A pan under the re- 
frigerator is a care, and it is often most annoying'.if forgotten, 
but with all this it is not a menace to the health of the fam- 
ily, as might be the risk of sewer-gas coming through the 
pipe into the refrigerator. 

Once a week the refrigerator should have a thorough 
cleaning and airing. Everything should be taken from 

the interior. The shelves and racks should be 
deaning. washed in hot suds, rinsed in hot soda-water, and 

finally in clean hot water. They should then 
be wiped dry, and, if possible, placed in the open air 
to become perfectly dry; should the weather be stormy, 
place them near the fire to dry. See that there is not 
a particle of anything left in a groove or mesh. Next 
wash the interior of the refrigerator, first with soap and 
water, then with mild soda-water, and finally with clean hot 
water, using a wooden skewer to clean all the grooves and 
ledges. 

The ice-chamber needs special attention. See that the 
waste-pipe is clean by running a flexible wire through it. If 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 89 

a cloth is put on the flexible wire the pipe may be more thor- 
oughly cleaned. Pour hot soda-water and then boiling water 
through this pipe. Then wipe every part of the 
refrigerator perfectly dry, and let it remain open ^^"'^ 
for an hour or more. pipe. 

Caution: It must be remembered that water- 
soaked wood, when kept from light and air, will scent and 
flavor any food that is placed in a closed chamber with it. 
The refrigerator should be so lined that not a particle of 
moisture can reach the wood used in its construction. 
Should the lining be cracked or broken, it must be repaired 
at once. It will be infinitely better to live without a refrig- 
erator than to use one that is not in perfect condition. 

THE SINK 

The kitchen sink should be absolutely sweet at all times. 
To keep it in this condition requires systematic watchfulness. 

When the dish-washing is finished, and the dish-towels and 
dish-cloths have been washed, half fill the dish-pan with hot 
soapy water. Wash every part of the sink with this, not 
missing a ledge or a groove. Wipe all the tiling or wood- 
work above and around the sink. Pour this water into the 
sink, and fill the pan with clear hot water. Rinse the sink, 
dish-pan, and cloth in this, wipe the pan, and hang the cloth 
out to dry. Let several gallons of clear cold water run through 
the pipes. If the sink is iron, and will not be used for several 
hours, wipe it dry after the cold water has been poured in. 

TO CLEAN AN IRON SINK 

Sometimes an iron sink gets into a rough, rusty condi- 
tion which no ordinary treatment can remedy. ^^ remove 
Quicklime, combined with some fatty substance, rust from 
such as oil, lard, mutton or beef fat, will remove ""^ 
rust and give a smooth, clean surface to the iron. 



90 HOME EGONOMIGS 

Rub soft mutton fat on the bottom and sides of the sink, 
then cover with powdered quicklime, and let the application 
stand overnight. In the morning wash off the lime with 
plenty of water and an old sink-broom; then wash the sink 
with a hot solution of sal-soda, using a cloth attached to the 
sink-broom for this purpose. Unless the rust is 
^^•?g^?^' very deep, the sink will be perfectly free from it, 

lime. and smooth and clean. If, however, any rust re- 
mains, apply the fat and lime a second time. Use 
great care not to spatter the lime on surrounding objects, as 
it will take the color out of fabrics and mar painted or var- 
nished surfaces. 

Rusted iron or steel of any kind may be cleaned in the 
same manner. 

The iron sink should be greased once in a while overnight 
with mutton fat, and have a thorough washing the next morn- 
ing with the hot solution of soda. 
c^e^f^^ Sal-soda is also very good for cleaning iron and 

siAk. steel utensils. 

CARE OF CELLAR 

In no part of the house is there greater necessity for con- 
stant watchfulness than in the cellar. It should be thor- 
oughly cleaned twice a year. In these two yearly cleanings 
the method of proceeding is this: / 

1. Open the windows. Sweep walls, ceiling, and 
^wu^ff' floor in one part of the room. 
ceUar. 2. Brush all light, movable articles, and place 

in the cleaned part of cellar. 

3. Sweep walls, ceiling, and floor of remainder of tho 
room, and brush thoroughly all stationary articles. 

4. Let dust settle, and sweep and dust a second time. 

5. Wash windows, tables, closets, etc. If whitewashing 
is to be done, this is the time to do it. 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 91 

6. Return articles to their proper places, and put screens 
in windows. 

If there are coal- and wood-bins in the cellar, this is the 
time to clean them, and also the furnace, if there is one. 
The cellar should be inspected once a week. 

In summer the windows should be opened every night and 
kept closed during the daytime. The reason for opening the 
windows at night and closing them in the daytime -^^en win- 
is this: The outdoor air in the daytime is much dows 
warmer than in the cellar. This warm, moist- "^'^^ 
laden air enters the cooler atmosphere of the 
cellar, and the moisture condenses and rests on all surfaces, 
rusting metallic ones, and making the cellar damp and warm. 
By opening the windows at night and closing them in the 
daytime the cellar is kept dry, cool, and pure. 

In winter, mild days should be selected for airing this part 
of the house. 

If the house is closed for the summer, it is best, when it 
can be done with safety, to leave two windows open on oppo- 
site sides of the cellar, that there may be a strong current 
of air blowing through all the time. 

Two sets of screens are necessary for the cellar Thescreeng 
windows: strong gratings, as a protection against celiwf 
thieves, and fine wire netting, as a protection 
against flies and small animals. If all this is done, and no 
animal or vegetable substance allowed to decay here, one may 
feel that the house is on a healthy foundation. 

HOUSEHOLD REFUSE 

What to do with the household refuse is often a most per- 
plexing question, particularly when one lives in a 
small town or country place. In large cities the ^^^^^ 
government disposes of the refuse. But even 
when the city makes a final disposition of the garbage, it 



92 HOME ECONOMICS 

does not relieve the housekeeper from the responsibility of 
seeing that it is kept in proper receptacles and removed at 
the proper time. No matter where one lives, it is possible 
to control this matter so that it shall not be a menace to the 
health or offensive to the sight. 

Everything feasible should be done to dispose of the house- 
hold refuse in the shortest period possible. 

There are two kinds of refuse which the housekeeper has 
to deal with. One belongs especially to the kitchen— vege- 
table and animal refuse; the other is the ashes, sweepings, 
etc., from all parts of the house. 

There are two modes of disposing of the kitchen garbage. 
The first and most sanitary is by burning; but this is not 
Tw od 2,lways possible, particularly in large families where 
of dispos- many fresh vegetables and fruits are used. The 
"*^fif*^ second method is to place the garbage in a tub, 
which is emptied two or three times a week, as 
the case may be. This tub must be washed each time it is 
emptied, and once a week in warm weather it should be rinsed 
with carbolic water— a teaspoonful of carbolic acid to a pint 
of water. 

If one lives on a farm, of course all the refuse food is 

utilized while yet fresh for the animals on the place. But 

when one lives in the country, and yet not on a 

^ftwein^ farm, some other way must be found to dispose of 

oountiy this refuse. If it must be kept on the grounds, the 

^raSl*' best way is to have a garbage-heap as far from 

towns. the house as possible. Sprinkle it generously 
each day with lime. Ashes and other refuse 
should be put in barrels, never in bins or heaped on the 
ground, either in the cellar or in the yard. In barrels they 
require but one handling, and can be taken from the premises 
without much trouble. They should be removed as often as 
possible. Ashes dry out the barrels, it is true, but they may 
be prevented from dropping to pieces by rinsing in water. 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 93 

The back yards, outbuildings, etc., should have the same 
care as the house. Everything must be kept in order, no 
damp or decaying substance left in dark or out- 
of-the-way places. ^'Sid 

There is now on the market a most valuable in- back yards 
vention, which can be attached to the range, and in ^^^ J^ 
which all the kitchen refuse can be carbonized. as houses. 



CARE OF THE PLUMBING 

The more plumbing there is in the house, the greater the 
responsibility of those in charge. If, however, it is the best 
of its kind, with an abundant supply of water for flushing, 
and each person understands and does his or her duty, there 
need be no trouble. 

Simply letting dirty water or other substances discharge 
into the pipes is not enough. There should be such a generous 
rush of water following that every particle of contaminating 
substance shall be carried at once from the pipes into the sewer. 

Nothing is more common than to find that this is neglected, 
even by well-educated people who should know better. It 
would not be a bad plan to have a printed notice ^j^^ ^^^ 
in the closet of every private house, as is often of iiaving 
the case in public places, to the effect that the ^^^^^ 
valve from the flushing-tank should be kept open closets in 
for a certain period of time, that at least two or private 
three gallons of water may flow into the pipes. 

When set bow's are used, it is not enough that the soiled 
water is allowed to pass into the pipes; it should be followed 
by some clean water. 

Kitchen and other sinks where dishes are washed, and 
where greasy water and the water in which strong-odored 
vegetables have been cooked are poured down the Thorough 
pipes, should have a thorough flushing with hot wa- *^^hlen^' 
ter, followed by cold water, two or three times a day. sink. 



94 HOME ECONOMICS 

Whenever the water in which cabbages, cauliflower, tur- 
nips, beans, etc., have been cooked is poured into the drain, 
it should be" followed immediately by plenty of cold water. 
Should one live in the country, where water for flushing is 
not plentiful, such refuse water had better be poured on the 
earth, some distance from the house. 

Liquid grease will chill as it reaches the pipes, and it will 
often cling to the sides. Other substances attach them- 
liqnid Selves to the particles of grease, and, naturally, if 
grease will nothing be done to wash the pipes clean, these 
**^® ■®^" substances decompose and send their vile odors 
if it is through all the pipes and into every part of the 
*^mjS^a^ house. It is not an uncommon thing to find this 
nKng to odor in houses where the plumbing is apparently 
^oAMci of the best. It is beyond the plumber's art to 
^^' prevent this, but it is within the power of every 
housekeeper to avoid it. Once knowing what causes the 
A strong trouble, the remedy is simple. A strong hot so- 
1^*^" ^^^^^^ ^^ washing-soda will dissolve the grease, 
dissolve and if enough hot water follow to carry it from 
fin»«»' the pipes the trouble is removed. 
Sometimes in large establishments like boarding-houses 
and hotels the amount of grease from dish-washing is quite 
large, and, there being so many people at the work, the re- 
sponsibility is not placed on any one, and the accumulation 
of grease and other putrefying substances is often so great 
that a more caustic agent than common washing-soda is 
required. In that case pour dissolved potash into the pipes. 

The kitchen and pantry sinks should be treated 

^^i with a hot solution of washing-soda at least once 

kitchen a week. One should not wait until an odor is 

"^w^*!* perceptible, but attend to this regularly, the same 

as washing or any other cleaning process. 

All the plumbing is better for being rinsed with the hot 

solution of soda, but once a month answers for all parts of 



DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK 95 

the house, except the sink, provided the plumbing is in 
good condition and there is no illness in the house. In 
case of illness it is well to use a disinfectant in case of 
every few days. If the disease be contagious the illness in 
disinfectant should be used every day for the 'Sr 
protection not only of the family, but of the whole tants 
neighborhood. *^®^y* 

When using chemicals in bath-room and set bowls the 
metal around the pipes should be protected. This is easily 
done. Have a funnel which fits into the opening 
in the pipe, and through this pour the chemicals, protect the 
Where the openings of the pipes are covered with pipeswhen 
strainers, the point of the funnel can be flattened ©iiSiwils. 
to fit the long, narrow openings. 

When strong acids or very caustic alkalis are xhojongh 
used to disinfect the plumbing, they should be flushing of 
followed, after a short interval, with a thorough ^JJ^^ 
flushing of the pipes. lowthense 

Washing-soda is not injurious to the metal ^SjJJ^^ 
pipes; but when the caustic potash is used, it is allcalis. 
best to flush thoroughly in about half an hour. 

To prepare the washing-soda for the pipes, cover one pint 
of soda with three gallons of boiling water, and let it 
remain on the fire until all the soda is dis- ^o^to 
solved. Pour this, boiling hot, into the pipes, prepare 
Use two quarts for each of the sinks; the "^p^^® 
remainder to be poured into pipes of the set 
bowls, bath-tubs, closets, laundry-tubs, etc. 

The sink-pipes should be made warm by pouring boiling 
water into them before pouring in the hot solution. 

If there should be a stoppage of the pipes by grease, 
make the solution four times as strong. 

To prepare the potash for the sinks, open a How to 
pound box, and put the potash in a large pitcher; poJJSfor 
then add two quarts of cold water, and stir with the sinks. 



96 HOME ECX)NOMIGS 

a wooden stick until nearly all the crystals are dissolved. 
Have the pipes wanned with boiling water, and pour in the 
solution of potash. When using potash, protect the hands 
with old gloves; turn the contents from the box very care- 
fully and gently; keep the mouth closed; be careful not to 
drop any of the liquid on your clothing or floor, as it will 
destroy color, fabric, paint, or varnish. 

There are many chemicals that both disinfect and deo- 
dorize the plumbing; most of them, however, replace the 
obnoxious odor by one of their own. This is the 
most disin- ^^^ with carbolic acid, which is a reliable disin- 
feotants an f ectant, but which many persons dislike to use be- 
^SeS^eT cause of the strong and lasting odor. When one 
realizes how clean and effective this chemical is, 
the odor will not be a great barrier to its use. 

Potassium permanganate is a good disinfectant and deo- 
dorizer. It is odorless, and perfectly safe to use anywhere. 
It has been demonstrated that disinfectants must come in 
contact with the organism that produces putrefaction or 
. disease in order to kill it; therefore, whatever 

tants must substance may be used, it should be applied in 
oome in such a manner that it shall reach all the sides of 
^Si the *^® pipes. To do this the solution must be poured 
oanse of into the pipes in such a quantity that they shall 

ordiw to ^ '^^ *^^®^ ^^^ ^* 1®^^^ ^^ instant. Make about a 
move it. five-per-cent. solution of carbolic acid by adding 
Soiuti n *^^ ounces of the crystals or liquid carbolic acid 
must be ^0 about three gallons of water. This answers for 
nsed in basins, bath-tubs, etc. ; but the water which rests 

quantity to ^^ ^^e bowl of the water-closet dilutes whatever 
reach aU substance may be poured into it; therefore this 
pipes. * water must have a stronger dose of the disinfec- 
tant. Pour a little carbolic acid into this bowl, and 

then pour in about two quarts of the carbolic-acid solution. 

Do not open the valve of the flushing-tank, as that would 



DAILY ROUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD WORK 97 

dilute and carry the disinfectant away before it had time to 
do its work. Pour the solution into the pipe quickly, that 
there may be volume enough of the liquid to touch all sides 
as it flows down. Do not flush for twenty or thirty minutes; 
then flush thoroughly. 

Potassium permanganate is used in the same manner. 
Dissolve half a pound in four gallons of water. It will give 
a rich purple solution. A few of the crystals may be 
dropped into the pipes at any time. 

There are many disinfecting articles on the market; some 
of them are very good. Directions as to how they shall 
be used come with them. 

Copperas is excellent to use in drains and closets. The 
solution should be strong, about three pounds to two gallons 
of water. 

Careless and ignorant people are the cause of a ^•"^^ 
great deal of trouble with plumbing. They throw ugoaleaiuo 
all sorts of things into the bowls and closets. It ot trouble 
is important that each person should be made to pi^bing. 
see the necessity of treating these conveniences Greatest 
with the greatest care and respect. But the enemy of 
greatest enemy of the pipes is any fibrous sub- ^® ^^^^ 
stance that can wind itself around joints and traps. Hair 
and lint are worse than any other substance in clogging 
pipes. 

Well-worn linty cloths should not be used for ^^^} ^« 

use Ox 1I70T11 

cleaning in a house where there is plumbing. You or linty 
will do the sick and yourself a favor by sending ^®^J*"f 
all the worn white cotton and linen where there is pt^l2s. 
illness, rather than keeping it for cleaning pur- 
poses. Dish-cloths, as soon as they become so worn that 
they give off fine particles of lint, should be destroyed; so 
should floor- and all other cleaning-cloths. 

7 



CHAPTER V 

THE LAUNDRY 

Soaking the clothes. Washing the clothes. Summary of the work. To 
prepare bluing-water. Flannels. Colored flannels. Summary. Blan- 
kets. Colored-cotton articles. Washing with starch. To make the 
starch. Silk undergarments. Washing with kerosene. Lace curtains. 
Starching. To make gum-arabic starch. Stiffening with gelatin. Boiled 
starch. Raw starch. Hanging clothes out to dry. Folding clothes for 
ironing. Preparing for ironing. Folding the clothes after ironing. A 
few words about the clothes-wringer. The laundry. How to dissolve 
soap. How to clean irons. 

The laundry, and all connected with it, is one of the 
branches of domestic economy which we keep as much as 
Need of Possible out of sight, and, indeed, out of mind. Yet 
study in SO much of the health, comfort, and decency of 
^^™|J^' life depend upon the cleansing of the personal 
and household linen that this subject should be 
studied carefully and intelligently by each housekeeper. It 
is very important that the fabrics should be washed in such 
a manner that all dirt shall be removed without too great a 
strain upon the tissue of the fabric. The best authorities 
are divided as to the most effectual means of doing this 
Hard rubbing wears the fabric; chemicals loosen the dirt 
and thus relieve the cloth from so much or so hard rub- 
bing; but at the same time the chemical does not stop with 

the dirt— it attacks the fabric also. It has seemed to me 

98 



THE LAUNDRY 99 

that an intelligent use of chemicals to aid in loosening the 
dirt is better than hard rubbing alone; but if the chemical 
is not used with the greatest care and intelli- 
gence, the use of soap and water and extra rub- gence' 
bing must be relied upon. One great trouble in needed if 
using a chemical in the laundry, as elsewhere in ^^"^^ed! 
the house, is that it is expected to do all the work, 
instead of its being looked upon simply as an aid. The 
chemical most commonly used in the laundry is sal-soda. If 
the water is hard, this or some other substance is almost a 
necessity. 

When using soda, ammonia, borax, Javelle water, etc., it 
must always be borne in mind that they must not be used 
in such quantities that they do away with the work 
of rubbing. The rubbing will be less hard, and iM)ntt,"etR 
may be done in less time; that is all. The chem- 
ical loosens the dirt, so that it yields quickly to sopping, 
squeezing, or rubbing. All chemicals should be dissolved 
and then mixed with the water. 

All clothing should be rinsed very thoroughly. Careful 
When a chemical is employed the necessity for .^^fe. 
thorough rinsing is even more important than when 
only soap and water are used. A chemical should be thor- 
oughly dissolved and mixed with the water before the clothes 
are put in the tubs. 



SOAKING THE CLOTHES 

Good laundresses are not all of the same opinion as to the 
desirability of soaking the clothes several hours before 
washing. It seems to me reasonable that the dirt should 
yield more readily when the fabric has been soaked in tepid 
suds, or even in cold water, for several hours; and certainly 
when an alkali is used in this manner it does its best work, 
because it has time to act upon the dirt, which is removed 



100 HOME EGONOMIGS 

with ease when the articles are put into fresh suds and 
rubbed by the laundress. 

Monday is the accepted wash-day among most house- 
keepers, but there are many who take Monday for preparing 
for the washing. This is a matter which every housekeeper 
must decide for herself. 

^. As far as possible, the clothing should be mended 

meats before it is put in the wash; a rip or tear may in- 

ihoQld be crease ten times the original size in the process 

mended _ . . . . ^ . 

before of washmg, drymg, and ironmg. 
^^w^^« Every article should be looked over for stains, 
staini and if there are any that soap and water will not 

"^^'^^^Ji ^®^^^®> ^^9 s*^l^ worse, will set, they should be 

taken out at once, if possible. Next, the clothing 

should be sorted, the finest and cleanest being put in a heap 

by themselves, the most soiled and the medium soiled in other 

heaps. 

Cut laundry soap in fine shavings, and put it, with boiling 

water, on the back of the range, where it will dissolve slowly. 

Ho tabs "^^^^ should be done an hour or more before it is 

shaUbe time to soak the clothes. Fill three tubs half 

P'^J"^ full of tepid water, add enough of the dissolved 

soap to make a strong suds, and put the three 

heaps of clothes in the suds, having the most soiled pieces 

in a pile at the bottom and the cleanest pieces on top. Rub 

a little soap on the portions of the personal linen— the neck 

and sleeve-bands, for example— that are most soiled; if soda 

must be used, this is the time for it. Mix the dissolved soda 

in the suds before the clothes are put in. 

WASHING THE GLOTHES 

In the morning wring out the two tubfuls of the cleanest 
clothes. Wash the tubs, and fill nearly half full with water 
as hot as you can bear your hand. Fill the boiler half full 



THE LAUNDRY 101 

of cold water, and add enough dissolved soap to make a 
light suds. Put the cleanest clothes in one of the tubs of 
hot water, and wash them, using soap wherever ^^^ 
it is needed. As the clothes are washed turn dothes 
them and wring them, then drop them into the !j^^ 
second tub of water, and wash them a second 
time in it, using soap, if there is necessity, as before. As 
each piece is wrung from this water, soap it, and drop it 
into the cold water in the boiler; when the boiler is full, 
light the fire, and let the clothes scald, pressing them down 
in the water with a wooden stick. If the boiler is to be 
placed on the top of the range, put it in place before filling. 
If soda is used, put in a tablespoonful of liquid soda (see 
" Liquid Soda ") to every three pailf uls of water. 

While the first tubful of clothes is scalding, rub out the 
second in the same manner, and then continue with the third. 

When the first boilerful of clothes is scalded, take them 
up and put them in a tubful of cold water, rinse, and then 
rinse in a tubful of bluing- water; then hang out to dry. The 
sun and pure air will give the clothes a whiteness and 
sweetness that nothing else can. This is the treatment for 
all white clothes. 

In the whole process of laundering there is Sin«n^ o' 
nothing as important as thorough rinsing. No portanoe. 
matter what care has been taken with other work, 
if the clothes are not thoroughly rinsed they will never have 
a good color. 

SUMMARY OP THE WORK 

1. Mend. 

2. Remove stains. 

3. Sort the clothes. 

4. Dissolve soap; make tepid suds in three tubs; put 
pieces most soiled at bottom and cleanest on top. Soak 
overnight. 



102 HOME ECONOMICS 

5. On washing-day wring clothes from soaking-water; fill 
two tubs with hot water, add dissolved soap and soda, if 
used; fill boiler with cold water; wash clothes out of one 
water, then in second; soap, and put in boiler. Light fire 
under boiler. When clothes are scalded rinse in two or 
three clean waters, then in bluing-water; wring dry, and 
hang in open air to dry. All the white clothes are to be 
treated in this manner. 

TO PREPARE BLUING-WATER 

The water for bluing may be cold or tepid. If liquid 
blue is used, pour a little in the water and stir it well. 
Take some of the water in the hand, and if it is sky-blue it 
is dark enough. 

The ball-blue is safe and satisfactory. Put the balls in a 

small flannel bag, and tie firmly. Fill a bowl with tepid water, 

and move the blue-bag through the water until it 

^^l^!^ becomes a deep dark blue; then pour it into the 

tub. Test the water to see if it is blue enough. 

It must be remembered that soft, loosely woven fabrics 
absorb the blue much more readily than closely woven stuflfs. 
What fab- ^^^^^ 1®* clothes stand in bluing-water, as it will 
rioB absorb make them streaked. 

°j^* As each article absorbs a portion of the blue in 

the water, those that are put in first will be bluer 

than those that follow. A good plan is to blue the water 

only slightly at first, adding a little of the dissolved blue as 

the pieces are rinsed. 

FLANNELS 

In washing flannels the first care is to prevent them from 
shrinking and to keep them soft. They should be washed 
on a clear bright day, and dried as quickly as possible. 



THE LAUNDRY 103 

Shake all lint and dust from the flannels. Prepare three 
tubs with water as warm as the hand can bear comforta- 
bly. Put enough dissolved soap in one tub to 
make a strong suds, and to every three gallons "^^^ 
of water add one tablespoonful of borax dis- 
solved in a pint of hot water, or instead of the borax 
two tablespoonfuls of household ammonia may be used. 
Put the white flannels in this suds, and wash them by sop- 
ping up and down and squeezing; rub them as little as 
possible. Squeeze them from this suds, and wash them 
in a second tub of warm water, to which has been added a 
little dissolved soap. Turn the garments in this water. If 
you like a little bluing in the flannels, have a third water of 
the same temperature as the other two, make it slightly 
blue, and put the washed flannels in it. Then put the flan- 
nels through the wringer, shake them well, and hang in the 
open air to dry. Before they are quite diy take them in, 
fold and roll in a clean cloth, and iron as soon as possible. 
The iron should not be very hot, and there should be a great 
deal of pressure used. 

Rubbing flannel thickens and hardens it. Inequality in 
the temperature of the water in which flannels are washed 
and rinsed shrinks them. Never use yellow soap 
for washing flannels, because it contains resin, Ji^el!* 
which is bad for woolens. 

If the water is hard, a little dissolved borax or ammonia 
may be put in the last water. This will keep the flannels 
soft. If the state of the weather interferes with the drying 
in the open air, hang the flannels in a warm room, but not 
too near the fire, heating-pipes, or register, as a high tem- 
perature will harden and shrink them. 

The temperature of the water in which flan- Tempera^ 
nels are washed is not as important as that ^1^^ 
each successive tubful through which they are muBtbe 
passed should be kept at the same tempera- i»ifonn* 



104 HOME ECONOMICS 

ture from the beginning of the washing of the flannels to 

the end. The work should be done as quickly as possible, 

and only one or two pieces should be wet at a time. As 

soon as the flannels are wrung out of the rinsing-water, 

shake them out and hang them out to dry. The thicker side 

should be uppermost. Pin the flannels on the line in such 

a manner that they will not be pulled out of shape. 

-^ t^ Loosely knitted or crocheted articles are likely 

loMel7 to get out of shape if hung up to dry in the ordi- 

^2?" nary way. Pull them into shape, and lay them on 

a piece of cloth,— a piece of a sheet is good for 

this,— and fasten them in place with safety-pins. When the 

garments are half dry, turn the sheet upside down, that all 

parts may be subjected to an equal strain. 

COLORED FLANNELS 

These are washed in the same way as the white flannels, 
omitting the borax and ammonia, except when very hard 
water has to be used; in that case a little borax may be put 
in the water. 

In washing blue flannels the color iftay be revived by 
acetic acid or vinegar. Put about a tablespoonful of the 
acid or a gill of vinegar in the rinsing-water. 

SUMMARY 
• 

1. Shake flannels free from lint and dust. 

2. Wash in strong suds which contains either borax or 
ammonia. 

3. Rinse in water of the same temperature as the suds. 

4. Never rub or wring flannels with the hands, as this 
twists and hardens the texture. 

5. Dry as quickly as possible, but press before fully dried. 
Do not use hot water with flannels. Use borax with colored 
flannels, as ammonia changes the colors. 



THE LAUNDRY 105 



BLANKETS 

Select a clear windy day on which to have the blankets 
washed. If there are colored bindings on the blankets, take 
them oflf and replace them with white ones. _^ ^ 

Examine the blankets to see if there are any how to 
places that are very much soiled; these should be ^a^ Wan- 
kept in mind during the washing. ""^^ 

Half fill two tubs with hot water. Pour enough dissolved 
soap into one tub to make a very strong suds, and into the 
second tub pour about half as much soap. 

Dissolve three tablespoonf uls of borax in a quart of water, 
and pour half of this mixture into each tub. 

Shake the blankets well to remove dust and lint. Put 
them in the first tub, and sop them up and down until the 
dirt appears to have been removed. Squeeze the water 
from them and put them in the next tub, washing them 
again in the same manner. 

Now rinse the blankets in a very weak suds, and run them 
through the wringer. The screws that tighten the rollers 
of the wringer must be loosened for thick blankets. After 
they have been through the wringer, shake the blankets 
well, and hang them out to dry, pinning them in several 
places so that an undue strain will not come on any one 
part. All three waters in which the blankets are washed 
must be of the same temperature. 

If there are any spots that the sopping and ^^^ *o "- 
pressing do not remove, spread that part of the ^^^^^ 
blanket on a board and rub it with a brush. This does not 
twist the fiber, as would the rubbing with the hands or on 
the wash-board. 

Wash only two blankets at a time. Have fresh water for 
every pair. As this is heavy work, one woman should not be 
required to wash more than two pairs of blankets in one day. 



106 HOME EGONOmCS 

The blankets should be perfectly dry before they are 

taken from the lines, and then they should be folded care- 

The best ^^'^7* ^^ press the blankets, spread a sheet on 

way to the table and put the folded blankets on it; draw 

pioM Uan- |;ijg gidgg ^f ^^^q shcet over them so as to cover 
kotBt 

them completely. Place a board on the top of the 

pile, and on it put a heavy weight; let the blankets remain 

under this for a day or two. This will press them sufficiently. 

COLORED-COTTON ARTICLES 

Colored cottons must be washed, dried, and ironed with 
great care to prevent their fading and "running.'' 

No alkali or strong alkaline soap should be used on them; 
for soda, ammonia, Javelle water, etc., will destroy the color. 
Whenever it is possible, they should be washed without soap. 
Starch of any kind may be substituted for soap. 

Water "^^^ water in which colored cottons are washed 

should i)e should never be hot; it should be merely warm. 

^*^t."*^* Soap should not be rubbed on colored cottons: 

they should be washed in strong suds made with 

warm water and dissolved soap. 

These fabrics must be rinsed in two rinsing-waters, and 

salt should be put in these waters to prevent the colors from 

running. If there are blue garments that have 

oTOd^te- '^^^^^^ ^ ^^**1® faded, put a cupful of vinegar in 

rials the last rinsing-water. 
shoiUd be Colored materials are starched, before being 

dried. dried, with boiled starch. All colored pieces should 
be dried as quickly as possible, and in the shade. 

Wash the articles in a strong suds; wring them from this, 
and drop them into a tub of cold water in which two table- 
spoonfuls of salt have been dissolved. 

When all have been washed in the suds, rinse them in the 
first rinsing-water, and again in a second. Have the starch 



THE LAUNDRY 107 

cold, thin, and strained, and put enough for one or two pieces 
in a bowl. Dip each piece in this, wring dry, and hang out. 
When the starch gets thin, add some of the fresh -^^^ ^^ 
starch to it before putting in another piece. Let how to 
colored articles get perfectly dry. They should ^^^^f^' 
be dampened ofily a short time before being ironed. rioi. 

WASHING WITH STARCH 

Colored garments washed with starch have the texture 
and appearance of a new fabric. Any kind of starch may 
be used. The points to be careful of are that there shall be 
starch enough to remove the dirt, that the starch shall be 
strained so that there are no lumps, and that in ironing the 
garment shall be ironed thoroughly. 

The starch may be made from common flour, corn-starch, 
fine laundry starch, grated potatoes, rice-flour, or the water 
in which rice has been boiled. It should be as thick 
as thin cream, and this should be diluted with four Howstarch 

mfty Do 

times its volume of warm water— one quart of made, 
starch to four quarts of water. These propor- 
tions are for the first water in which the garment is washed. 
The second water should be composed of eight quarts of 
water and one quart of starch. 

TO MAKE THE STARCH 

Mix to a smooth paste half a cupful of corn-starch, or 
rice-starch, and one pint of cold water. Pour on this, stir- 
ring all the time, three quarts of boiling water. 
Cook for five minutes, stirring continually, then ^^^5|^^ 
add three quarts of cold water, and strain through made, 
cheese-cloth. 

Flour-starch is made in the same manner, except that a 
cupful of flour is used. 



108 HOME ECONOMICS 

To wash a garment with the starch, put two and one half 

quarts of the starch into a tub with eight quarts of water. 

To waih Wash the garment in this thoroughly, just as 

garments you would with soap-suds. Have eight quarts 

■tai^ of warm water in a second tub, and one pint 

of the starch. The garment is to be washed 

in this water, and rinsed in plenty of cold water. Turn 

it wrong side out, and put on the line at once. When 

dry, sprinkle, and iron on the wrong side. The method of 

washing with starch is by all odds the most satisfactory for 

dark prints, cambrics, sateens, etc. Garments that are very 

much soiled require twice the quantity of starch mentioned 

above. 

SILK UNDERGARMENTS 

Articles made of silk should always be washed in tepid 

water, and the soap used on them should not be caustic. 

Materials White Castile soap, or any good white soap, will 

used in answer. If the silks are to be kept white, ammonia 

^^Sk** should not be used, as it gives a yellow tinge; a 

little borax, however, may be used. If the silk is 

of an 6cru shade, ammonia may be employed. 

Never rub silk garments on the board in washing; always 
rub them with the hands. 

Make a strong suds of tepid water, and add to it one 
teaspoonful of borax, which has been dissolved in a pint of 
Method of ^^^^^^S water. This is enough for two pailf uls of 
washing suds. Put the silk garments into it, and let them 
"'^i^*"' stand for twenty minutes or half an hour; then 
wash them with the hands. Rinse in two waters, 
run through the wringer, and hang them out. When a little 
more than half dried, take them in and spread on a sheet. 
Roll them up tightly, let them stand about an hour, and then 
press them. Use a rather cool iron, and have a clean white 
cloth or brown paper between the iron and silk. 



THE LAUNDRY 109 

In washing embroidered linens or colored silks, omit the 
borax and ammonia, and after an article of this kind has 
been rinsed and passed through the wringer, spread waghingof 
it smoothly on a dry sheet and roll it up. Let it embroideiv 
stand about fifteen minutes, then press, with a JS^J^ 
cloth between the fabric and the iron. ooIoxb. 

WASHING WITH KEROSENE 

Washing white clothing with kerosene is quite common 
in this country and in Europe. I give directions for the 
method of doing this, not because I like it or ap- xeroaene 
prove of it, but because, if it is done at all, it is as it is 
best that it should be done properly. ^^Jjjjjd *^* 

The clothing should be soaked as directed in 
the usual method. In the morning, hot water should be 
added to the suds in which the clothes have soaked, and they 
should be rubbed out in this water. 

The boiler should be half full of boiling water, to which 
enough dissolved soap may be added to make a strong suds. 
Two tablespoonfuls of kerosene should also be jtigimpor- 
added, and enough of the washed clothing put in tant that 
to fill the boiler moderately full. Let the pieces ^^\'^ 
boil half an hour. added to 

Take the clothes from the boiler at the end of ^^ *f'^% 
that time, and put them in a tub half full of suds. 
Add sufficient cold water to the suds in the boiler to fill it 
half full, and enough soap to make a strong suds. When 
this boils, add a tablespoonf ul of kerosene, put in a second 
batch of the clothes, and boil half an hour. Proceed in this 
manner until all the clothing has been boiled. 

In the mean time wash the boiled clothing from the suds, 
rubbing any portions that are not clean; rinse in three 
waters, wring, and hang out to dry. 

The advantage of this method of washing is that it does 



110 HOME ECONOMICS 

away with much rubbing; but there must be the greatest 
care in rinsing. The pieces must be rinsed in many waters; 
but even when this has been done thoroughly, I have never 
yet seen clothes washed by this process that did not retain 
a slight odor of the kerosene. This is most disagreeable in 
sheets, pillow-cases, towels, and napkins, or, indeed, in any 
article that comes near enough to the face to allow an odor 
to be perceived. One of the charms of fresh linen is the 
pure, delicate odor that should be a part of it. It is to be 
hoped that this method of washing clothes with kerosene 
will not be encouraged by housekeepers. 

LACE CURTAINS 

The difficulty in washing lace curtains is to keep them in 
shape, and to avoid tearing them. As they will not bear 
hard rubbing, the dirt must be removed by soak- 
Great care jj^g jj^em^ and sopping them gently. 

in the Fine lace curtains should not be made too stiff; 

washing of j^^^ ^j^^ coarser the lace, the more starch will be 
tains. required. The stiffening may be of starch, gela- 
tin, or gum arable. Borax helps to hold the stif- 
fening in starched materials. 

If it is desired to give the lace an old look, dip the cur- 
tains in tea or coffee after the last rinsing; or the stiffening 
mixture may be colored with tea, coffee, or saf- 
fbr Lm? fron. Coffee is apt to leave an odor. 

Fill a tub half full of tepid water; add to this 

half a pound of soap dissolved in two quarts of water, and two 

tablespoonfuls of borax dissolved in a quart of boiling water. 

Method of Shake the dust from the curtains, and put 

wailing them to soak in this water, letting them stand 

lace CUT- overnight. In the morning half fill a tub with 

hot water, and add a tablespoonful of dissolved 

borax and enough dissolved soap to make a good suds. 



THE LAUNDRY 111 

Sop the curtains from the water in which they have been 
soaking. Squeeze the water from them, and put them in the 
hot suds. Sop and squeeze them in this water until all the 
dirt has been pressed out, then rinse them in clear water 
until there is no trace of soap or dirt. Squeeze them as 
dry as possible, and spread them on the grass, or hang them 
on the lines, to dry. When dry, starch them, and draw them 
into the shape and length you wish, and fasten 
them into the frame, if you have one. If a frame ^TL*^*'^ 
is lacking, cover a mattress with a clean sheet, taiiu. 
and draw the curtains into shape on this, pinning 
them down. The mattress should be outdoors, or in a room 
where the windows may be kept open. Of course the cur- 
tains will have to be folded when treated in this way, as it 
would not be possible to find a mattress long enough to ad- 
mit of their being stretched at full length. 

It will often be found that, after washing, the ^^""* 
curtains are of uneven lengths. To obviate this, washing 
measure the length of the curtain before washing; «od stretch 
then, when stretching on the frame or mattress, ^^J^f^ 
measure both sides, and stretch them to get the 
original lengths. When this is done, they may be drawn 
gently to their full width. The curtains will hang better if, 
after having been dried in this manner, they are pressed with 
an iron that is not very hot. 

STARCHING 

starching should be done with the greatest care; for if not 
properly done, the articles will not look well, no NeoeBsaiy 
matter how much care may be exercised in ironing. ««* J^^^ 

Starch is made from a great variety of vegeta- " '^'»"*- 
bles. Besides the pure sSchwhichi generally ^^^ 
used, gums and gelatins are sometimes employed itaroh. 
for special articles, like silks, laces, veils, curtains, etc. 



112 HOME ECONOMICS 

Turpentine is sometimes used in raw starch to give a gloss 
and whiteness. 

1. Borax is used to give gloss and prevent the starched 
article from losing stiffness when exposed to dampness. 
Boiling for a long time makes starch clearer and less likely 
to stick. 

2. For muslins it is very important that the starch should 
be thoroughly boiled, that the muslins may look clear. 

3. The water in which rice has been boiled 
ihoiildbe niakes a good starch for colored articles, white 

thoroughly skirts, and any garments that are not to be made 
^Jj^' very stiff. Raw starch makes articles stiffer than 
boiled starch. Sometimes cuffs, collars, and shirt- 
bosoms that have been starched in the hot boiled starch are 
dampened with raw starch to give them extra stiffness. 

4. Thin handkerchiefs, silks, laces, etc., are often 
&TdS*^ stiffened with gum arable. This gives them a finish 

fiibrics. like a new article. The purest gum arable is used 

for this purpose, because it is almost colorless. 
Laces, lace veils, silks, etc., have more of an appearance 
of newness when stiffened with this preparation than when 
starch is used. 

TO MAKE GUM-ARABIC STARCH 

Put an ounce of the gum in a wide-mouthed bottle, and 
cover with half a pint of cold water. Place the bottle in a 
pan of cold water on the fire. When the gum is dissolved, 
strain it through a piece of cheese-cloth into another bottle, 
and when it is cold add half a gill of alcohol. Cork and put 
away for use. A portion of this may be diluted to suit the 
article to be stiffened. This preparation will keep for years. 
Articles stiffened with gum arable, isinglass, gelatin, or rice- 
water are apt to be a little off color, so it is best not to use 
these substances when absolute whiteness is required. 



THE LAUNDRY 113 



STIFFENING WITH GELATIN 

Either gelatin or isinglass makes a satisfactory stiffening 
for colored fabrics. Silks that have been washed, jj^ ^f -^. 
and that require a little dressing, cotton or silk atin to 
curtains, etc., are all improved by a slight stiffen- *^f^' 
ing with either of these substances. rics. 

Soak one fourth of an ounce of gelatin or isin- jjir^c^^j^g 
glass in half a pint of cold water for one hour, for unng 
Pour on this one quart of boiling water. Stir fifelatmor 
until all the gelatin is dissolved, then strain, and 
it is ready for use. The articles to be stiffened should be 
wrung dry and dipped in the prepared gelatin, then wrung 
and dried, dampened and ironed, the same as if boiled starch 
had been used. 

Weak tea or coffee may be used instead of the boiling 
water, if a slight 6cru tint is desired. 

BOILED STARCH 

The amount of boiling water used in making a boiled starch 
depends upon the degree of stiffness desired; shirt-bosoms, 
cuffs, and collars requiring the greatest degree of j^^^^^ ^ 
stiffness, while laces, table-linen, and undercloth- starch and 
ing require the least. ^^^^ 

When articles must be very stiff, as is the case stifihess 
with shirks and collars and cuffs, a combination of w^'u^^ed. 
the boiled and raw starch gives the best results. 
The following preparations will be a guide for the inexperi- 
enced laundress: 

No. 1. 

1 tablespoonf ul of starch. Very stiff: 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. . 
1 gill of boiling water. 



114 HOME ECONOMIGS 

This is to be used for cuffs, collars, and shirt-bosoms that 
are to be made very stiff. 

No. 2— the same rule as No. 1, using half a pint of boiling 

water. This is for shirt-bosoms, cuffs, and collars when they 

are to be wet afterward with raw starch. Coarse 

^^^^a*" 1^^® curtains, collars and cuffs of shirt-waists, etc., 

require starch of about this strength. 

No. 3— the same as No. 1, except that three gills of boil- 
ing water are used. This will be about right for white skirts 
and other articles that should be fairly stiff. 

No. 4— the same as No. 1, using one pint of boiling water. 
This is suitable for skirts, dresses, etc. 

No. 5. 

Merely a ^ tablespoonful of starch. 
•uggestioii 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
of Btareh. 2 quarts of boiling water. 

This starch is suitable for table-linen and laces that should 
not have more than a suggestion of starch. 

Starched articles may be ironed more easily, and they take 
a better gloss, if an oily or waxy substance is dissolved in the 

How to starch. A bit of wax or sperm candle, a bit of 
■ecurefhe lard or mutton suet, will answer the purpose. A 

P^*?^ little borax added to the starch gives a finer gloss 

ironing to the ironed article, and enables it to hold its 

■^^•* stiffness in a damp atmosphere, such as that at 
the sea-shore. 

The starch must always be boiled until it is clear. The 
water and every utensil used in making it must be absolutely 
clean. 

To make the starch, have the water boiling. Mix the dry 

starch with cold water. Gradually pour the boil- 

<tfm^dnff ^^^ water on this mixture, stirring all the time. 

itareh. Stir over the fire until the starch looks clear. It 



THE LAUNDRY 116 

will take about ten minutes' cooking for this. To the rule 
given, add a piece of candle or lard about the size of a white 
bean, and half a teaspoonf ul of powdered borax. Strain the 
starch through a piece of cheese-cloth. If the starch has 
been stirred continually during the cooking, and is used at 
once, it will not require straining. 

If a suggestion of bluing is liked, add a little Bluing 
to the cooking starch. Both turpentine and bo- ^^•'^^ 
rax give whiteness and gloss to starched linen, but they nmst 
be used with care, else they will injure the fabric. 

RAW STARCH 

1 tablespoonful of starch. 
i pint of cold water. 
i teaspoonful of borax. 
A few drops of turpentine. 

This rule is for raw starch, to be used on linen that is re- 
quired quite stiff. Twice as much water must be used for 
linen that is to be made moderately stiff. Mix the pg^ti tore- 
starch and other ingredients thoroughly, and strain mAmber in 
through cheese-cloth. "^toJrfL 

This starch begins to settle the moment it is 
at rest; therefore it must be thoroughly stirred when used. 

The pieces to be starched must be dry. Dip them into the 
starch, and rub them as if they were being washed. Squeeze 
them dry, and spread them smoothly on a clean sheet. One 
article must not be placed upon another. Fold the sheet over 
them, and roll tightly. If the pieces are large, the folded 
sheet may be run through the wringer; but for small articles 
this is not necessary. The starched articles should lie for 
half an hour or an hour. 

When ironing these pieces, have a thin piece of cloth to 
spread over the portion being ironed. The iron must be hot. 



116 HOME ECONOMICS 

Go over the article, with the cloth between it and the iron, 
until it is about half dry; then take off the cloth, and iron 
until the piece is perfectly dry. Use a good deal of pressure. 

It is important that the iron should be hat when 
^^hot^ it is first used on articles that have been raw- 
when ixon- starched, because it is only by this means that the 
^^JJ^IJJ starch becomes cooked and gummy, 
garme&tt. It is equally important that there should be 
enough moisture in the fabric to combine with 

Impor- the starch. If a spot gets dry, it will not be either 
^^^^^ smooth or stiff. For this reason it is a good plan 

being to have the portions that are not being ironed 
tt^nghly covered with a wet cloth. If a spot gets too dry, 
irmSfi^ wring a clean cloth out of cold water, and dampen 
the place with it. 

It takes but little time to prepare raw starch, and the work 
of starching the articles is slight; but it requires the great- 
est care to iron a large piece so that it may be smooth and 
of equal stiffness in every part. The cloth must be vjety the 
iron hot at first, and the ironing must be continued until 
every thread is dry. 

In using boiled starch, the articles should be starched 
while wet. If the article is to be made very stiff, the starch 
How bdled ^^^^ ^^ ^^ed as hot as possible, and be rubbed and 
ttaroh if clapped into the linen. Great care must be taken 
'^'^^^ to get the starch distributed evenly through the 
taken fhat threads of the fabric, and to remove it as much as 
i^ jj •y.^y possible /rom the surface. It is a good plan, there- 

uted. i^^^t after the starch has been rubbed and clapped 

in, to draw the cuffs, collars, and shirt-bosoms 

through the fingers, thus removing the superfluous starch. 

Each plait of the shirt-bosom must be drawn between the 

forefinger and thumb. 

Before beginning to starch, the hands must be washed 
thoroughly with soap and warm water. 



THE LAUNDRY 117 

All articles starched with the boiled starch must be dried 

fkoroughlyj and then made very damp, and rolled whenns- 

tightly in a clean, dry cloth. They should lie in ing bdled 

the cloth for two or more hours before being ^J^J^,^ 

ironed. thon 

Starched articles must not be hung where they and^uW 

will freeze. adryoloth. 

HANGING CLOTHES OUT TO DRY 

The oxygen of the air, and the sun, are great aids in whit- 
ening iand sweetening clothes, and, when possible, every 
article should be dried in the open air. 

The lines must be fastened securely; wipe them with a 

clean, damp cloth before the clothes are hung upon them. 

Be sure that the clothes-pins are clean and whole, careof li^^ 

Clothes-pins that have lain on the ground in rain and 

and snow are not fit to use; the best way to dis- dothes- 

puis, 
pose of these is to put them in the fire. When 

the clothes are taken in, the pins should be put in a bag or 
basket kept for this purpose. When it is possible, the line 
should be taken down. A line that is exposed to the ele- 
ments rots slowly, and soils the clothing that is hung upon 
it. Every piece must be turned wrong side out before being 
put on the lines. 

Group all articles of the same kind together on the line, 
if possible. Do not hang the pieces by the corners, as the 
strain tears them and gets them out of shape.. 
Fasten garments by the bands, when possible. ^^^ 
They are less liable to tear when hung this way, the line, 
as the heavier parts do not hang down. 

White clothing should be hung in the sun, and colored 
clothing in the shade. Do not hang starched articles where 
they will be exposed to a strong wind, as the wind drives 
the starch out of the fabric. 



118 HOME ECONOMIGS 



FOLDING CLOTHES FOR IRONING 

When clothing is folded properly, the ironing is half ac- 
complished. The pieces should be folded as quickly as 
Prepare- Possible after they are taken from the line. Have 
tioiLof the laundry or kitchen clean; spread a clean 
^J^^ ^ ironing-cloth on the table; place a bowl of clean, 

brush, something like a scrubbing-brush, but about one 
fourth as large. Spread one article at a time on the table, 
dip the brush lightly in the warm water, and sprinkle the 
piece with it, getting a fine spray on all parts. Continue 
this until all the plain clothes are dampened. Be careful to 
keep articles of the same kind together. Line the clothes- 
basket with a piece of clean cotton kept for this purpose. 

Clear one end of the table for the folding, and begin with 
the smaller pieces. Plain articles, like napkins, towels, 
handkerchiefs, pillow-cases, etc., may be folded together. 

Beginning with the napkins, lay a piece perfectly flat on 

the table, draw the edges straight, and pass the hand over 

the napkin, smoothing out the wrinkles; place an- 

fnMJug other napkin on this, drawing it out in the same 

manner. Continue this until all the napkins are 

in the pile; then roll firmly, and wrap a towel around them. 

The handkerchiefs and pillow-cases should be done in the 

same manner. 

The towels are to be folded in the middle, with the edges 
drawn straight and the fold in the middle laid perfectly even. 

^^ Place one towel upon another, as in the case of 
forfoldisg ^^^ napkins, and roll. Sheets and table-cloths 

■^eeti, must be folded in the middle, and the sides 

do^^to. ^^^ comers matched with great care; the edges 

and the middle folds must be firmly drawn. Two 

persons can do this better than one. All the folding must 



THE LAUNDRY 119 

be done with care and exactness. Starched articles should 
be protected from the air. It is well to keep pieces of cotton 
cloth for this purpose and for wrapping up small pieces like 
napkins and handkerchiefs. 

Sheets, pillow-cases, towels, and underclothing * Some ar- 
should be dampened only slightly. Table-linen ^^J^j^ 
should be made quite damp, and all starched and others 
pieces should be made very damp. diSti 

Clothes may be ironed much more easily when damp/ 
they have been dampened and folded several hours. 
This is possible if the clothes are folded the same day on 
which they are washed, and ironed on the following day. 

PREPARING FOR IRONING 

For good work it is absolutely necessary that the table and 
ironing-board are firm and unwarped, and that their covering 
is soft and smooth. 

The table and board should each have a first cover of 
thick woolen or cotton material; an old blanket is excellent 
for this purpose, and over it there should be a clean white 
cotton cover. These coverings may be tacked permanently 
on the board, but they must be removed from the table as soon 
as the ironing is finished. 

Spread the woolen cover in place, and tack it, using the 
smallest-sized tacks, under the edges of the board or table, 
drawing it tightly so that there shall not be the suggestion 
of a wrinkle. Now put on the white cotton cover. Tack 
this in the same way, taking care to keep it perfectly smooth. 

There must be a good fire for the ironing; it 
must not burn too rapidly, and it must never be ewOTrtial. 
allowed to reach a white heat. 

See that the irons are scrupulously clean and smooth, and 
put them to heat. 

Lay several thicknesses of newspaper or brown paper on 



120 HOME ECX)NOMICS 

the corner of the ironing-table. At the right hand, and on 

the paper, place the stand for the irons. Just beyond this 

have a soft old cloth on which to wipe the irons. 

^2^ See that there is a piece of beeswax tied in a 

inming piece of cloth, ready for use. Close at hand, but 

J2J2J[ not on the table, place a paper on which is about 

half a cupful of salt. Whenever the iron seems 

a little rough, rub it on the salt, wipe it, and then go over 

it lightly with the wax, and wipe again. Be very careful to 

have every part of the irons, top and bottom, perfectly clean. 

The irons become smoother and the heat grows more even 

as the ironing goes on; therefore it is better to begin by 

What to do ^^^^^"S s^^® ^^ *^® coarser towels until the irons 
tiutho get in fair condition; then iron sheets, pillow- 

*"hot " ^^^^^9 ^^^ table-cloths. 

Every time the fire is' replenished it takes a 
short time to burn up to a bright heat. Handkerchiefs 
should be ironed in this interval. 

As soon as the irons get very hot, begin on the starched 
articles. Keep a few coarse towels at hand to iron if the 
heat of the iron needs to be tempered before it is applied 
to the starched pieces. Finish all the starched articles, and 
then go back to the plain clothing. The fire may have to be 

How to replenished several times, but it will save time, 

care for strength, and fuel if one is careful not to let it 
fire when ]3^J,n up to a white heat, and not to choke the 

uoxung. 

draft by packing the coal in the stove. Put 
coal on the fire as lightly as possible. Do not shake the 
fire down if you can help it, for that packs the coal and 
cinders together, so that there is not enough space left for 
the oxygen to pass freely between the coals. It is as diffi- 
cult for a fire to burn without oxygen as it is for us to 
breathe without it. 

It is much easier to give explicit directions for the 
methods of washing and starching than it is to give them 



THE LAUNDRY 121 

for ironing. In this part of the laundry work practice is 
necessary. It is hoped that with the detailed directions 
given for the washing, starching, and folding, and the sug- 
gestions in regard to ironing, the beginner may find that, 
with practice, she can attain the best results. 

Every piece should be ironed until it is dry. The greater 
the pressure of the iron, the smoother and more glossy the 
surface of the material will be. 

The iron should pass smoothly and regularly over the 
cloth, the movement being up and down in the direction of 
the selvage, with the grain of the cloth. 

The pressure should be light until the cloth has \g^ ^ 
been made smooth; then press very hard. The iron 
should not be half lifted, or used in a jerky manner. It must 
rest on the cloth, and be moved rather slowly at first, to avoid 
making little creases. After the cloth is smooth the move- 
ment may be more rapid. 

Table-linen should be ironed in a single thickness until it 
is perfectly dry; then it may be folded and pressed. There 
should be as few folds as possible in a table-cloth. ^^^ ^^^^ 

Napkins and handkerchiefs should be folded in Unen 
such a manner that the initials or other markings "^^^jJ^ 
come on the outside. 

The borders of napkins and handkerchiefs should be 
ironed first; care must be taken to pull them even, so that 
they shall fold perfectly square. 

Table-linen that is fine and heavy will not require starch, 
but the linen that lacks body is improved by the use of a 
very little starch. whBa 

Each article should be hung on the frame to air taUe-linen 
as soon as it is ironed. Table-cloths, napkins, and "^^' 
handkerchiefs are the exceptions to this rule. 
They should remain folded, and be laid on some flat surface, 
like a board, until the ironing is finished, when they will be 
aired sufficiently to be put away. 



122 HOME EOONOlfiGS 



FOLDING THE CLOTHES AFTER IRONING 

No matter how well the clothing has been ironed, if it is 
carelessly folded when being taken from the clothes-horse it 

^^ will never be satisfactory. 
ofwS^ See that a table is clear and clean. Draw the 

dothM clothes-horse near it, and lift off one piece at a 
^SLw' time. Fold each piece carefully in the creases 
made by the iron, and press smoothly with the 
hands. Be sure that each piece lies smoothly in the basket 
in which it is to be taken up-stairs. The table-linen should 
be kept in a broad drawer or box, so that the table-cloths 
need not be folded in too many creases. 

Fasten night-dresses and night-shirts by the button at the 
neck, as it will then be easy to fold them neatly. 

A FEW WORDS ABOUT THE CLOTHES-WRINGER 

When the washing is finished, loosen the screws that 
tighten the rubber cylinders. Wipe the cogs and every part 
of the machine dry. 

If the wringer works hard, pour a little kerosene on the 
cogs, and work them for a few seconds; then wipe them, and 
put a few drops of sewing-machine oil on them, and work for 
a minute. 

On washing day wipe the machine carefully to remove any 
particles of superfluous oil; tighten the cylinders. 

THE LAUNDRY 

The essential furnishings of a laundry are: three or four 
good tubs, a boiler, stationary or portable, wash-board, 
The iieca»> clothes-wringer, clothes-stick, ironing-board, table, 

toe tar^ P^^'' ®^* ^^ flat-irons, porcelain-lined saucepan and 
lanndiy. wooden spoon for starch-making, small bowl, large 



THE LAUNDRY 123 

dipper for taking water from boiler, etc., ironing-blanket and 
-sheet, stand for irons, holders for irons, floor-cloth and cloths 
for washing tubs, boilers, etc., clothes-basket, clothes-line, 
clothes-pins and a bag or basket for holding them, and, finally, 
a stove or some other means of heating irons. 

If the laundry, and every article in it, are not kept scrupu- 
lously clean, the work done in it cannot be satisfactory. 

Before the washing is begun, the room should w * i^ 
be made perfectly clean. keptabM- 

Af ter the washing is finished, every article used ^*^y 
in the work should be washed, and then thoroughly svery- 
rinsed in clear water. The boiler must be wiped thing in 
dry. Wash and wipe the floor. Let cold water run forewaah- 
f reely into the tubs, that every trace of suds may ing i« 
be removed from tubs and pipes ; then wipe the tubs mJ^SJa, 
dry. Wash, rinse, and dry the cleaning-cloths. 

After the ironing is finished, and the clothes have been 
removed, the room should be swept and dusted, blankets, 
sheets, etc., folded, and everything put in order. 

If the suds from the washing are not thoroughly Tabs, palli, 
rinsed from tubs, pails, wringer, etc., a disagree- *{J't^^ 
able odor will fill the laundry and finally penetrate onghiy 
to the other parts of the house. rinjwd. 

HOW TO DISSOLVE SOAP 

Shave the soap, and put it in a stew-pan with water. 
Place this on the fire, and let it heat slowly until the soap is 
dissolved, which will take about an hour. 

Use three quarts of water for one pound of soap. 

HOW TO CLEAN IRONS 

The longer flat-irons are in use, the smoother and better 
they become and the more easily they are kept clean. 



124 HOME ECONOMICS 

All irons are better for being greased, once in a while, 
with warm mutton tallow or sweet-oil. Let them stand a 
few days after the grease has been applied, wash them in a 
strong soap-suds, then rinse them in hot soda-water, and. 
wipe dry. If the irons get rusted, cover the rusted part 
with sweet-oil and powdered quicklime, and let them stand 
several days. Wash this off with water, and then with 
strong soda-water. 

Fine emery-paper will often remove rust and roughness 
from irons, and rottenstone and sweet-oil will clean them. 
Mix powdered rottenstone with the oil, and spread 
move nwt ®^ * board; work the iron back and forth on this 
until bright and smooth; wash in strong, hot soap- 
suds, or in a hot solution of saUsoda. 

To insure the perfect cleanliness of irons, they should be 
washed in soap and water frequently. Irons should always 
be kept in a clean, dry place. 

The laundress is often very careless of her health. She. 

will leave the wash-tub, where she has become heated, and 

where the steam from the hot water has opened 

tanMoir ^h® pores of her arms and hands, and go, bare- 

lanndrees headed and bare-armed, out into the chill win- 

bJrhSath. *^ ^^^ ^ ^^^S up the clothes. She should re- 
member that her health is her capital, and that 
without it she will become a burden to herself and others. 
If she has perfect health and a good constitution, she ought 
to thank God for one of the greatest blessings that can be 
given to mankind, and guard it gratefully and intelligently. 
How to When the weather is cold or raw, wipe the hands 
dren and arms dry, pull the sleeves down, have a jacket 
aS^oSok- ^^ shawl to protect the shoulders and lungs, and 
ly when put a covering of some kind on the head. This 
^^f^f^ should all be done before venturing outdoors. In 
intensely cold weather wear clean white mittens. 
If the ground is damp, or covered with snow, put on rubbers. 



THE LAUNDRY 125 

Carefulness in these little details will prevent many colds 
and much impaired health. 

A rubber apron will protect the clothing from the wet 
during the washing. 

Many girls feel that they cannot afford these things; but 
one week's wages would buy everything but, perhaps, the 
sack or shawl, and one always has something of Money ex- 
that kind on hand which is practically useless for pended in 
any other purpose. Even if it is necessary to buy iSSth is 
the wrap, it would be money well invested, and it weU in- 
will be the means of saving much suffering. vested. 

The laundress should be conscientious in her work, doing 
it honestly. The use of destructive chemicals should be 
avoided. No one has a right to use substances that will 
destroy the fabric. She should do by her employers as she 
would like them to do by her. 



CHAPTER VI 

CARE OP LIGHTING APPUANCaBS 
Management of gas. Oil-lamps. Some facts in regard to petroleum. 

MANAGEMENT OF GAS 

Gas and electricity are the two most convenient forms of 
Gat and lighting houses. 

eiaetridtj. When gas is burned, the pipes should be care- 
Care of gas- ^^l^y examined, from time to time, to make sure 
immen that there are no leaks. The burners should be 
and kesrs. cleaned frequently, or renewed when they do not 
work well. The keys should stand square when the gas is 
turned off. A loose key that does not indicate to a cer- 
tainty when the gas is turned on or off should not be toler- 
ated for one day. 

When there is a whistling sound from the burning gas, 
it indicates that unconsumed gas is escaping through the 
burner; the key should be turned until the sound ceases. 

If rubber tubing is used on a drop-light, always lower the 

light by turning off the gas at the pipe that supplies the 

tubing. If the light is turned off at the lamp, 

ber tai^. ^^^ extra pressure on the tubing causes some of 

the gas to escape. The rubber tubing should be 

frequently removed from the lamp and pipe, and hung in the 

126 



CARE OP UGHTING APPLIANCES 127 

open air. Odor of escaping gas should be traced promptly 
to its source, and the leak should be repaired instantly. 

Should there be a strong odor of gas in any room in the 
house, or in the cellar, do not carry a light while investi- 
gating it. Open the doors and windows first, that --^ 
the gas may be carried out by a current of air. 
After a short time it will be safe to use a light, if that be 
necessary. If there is a suspicion of a large leak, do not 
test it with a lighted match; the odor should be a guide. 

Acquaint yourself with the location of the stopcock that 
turns the supply of gas off from the house, so that in case 
of accident the gas may be cut off readily. Learn 
to read the meter. Some gas companies give clear JlffilS. 
directions for this on the back of their bills. 

When round-top burners are used, see that the flame does 
not spread so as to reach the globe. The flat-top 
burners are to be preferred, because they prevent ^^JJlit-top 
this spreading of the flame. baxnexi. 

The globes should be dusted when the room is 
being dusted, and they must be washed as soon -^^^^ 
as they become dim or soiled. In dusting gas flxtnres. 
fixtures, be careful not to wrench or twist them. 
Never use a polish on the ordinary fixtures. If they are in 
a bad condition, have them removed and taken to the bur- 
nisher. This is, in the end, the cheapest thing to do. 

OIL-LAMPS 

The best lamps and the best oil are invariably the safest 
and cheapest. The lamps least trying to the eyes are those 
known as the student lamps. Indeed, there is no 
other artificial light, as far as I know, that is as lamps, 
satisfactory to work by. Every household should 
have at least one of these lamps. They range in price from 
two dollars and seventy cents to fifteen dollars or more. 
When the price goes much over six or eight dollars, it is 



128 HOME ECONOMICS 

owing to the metal and ornamentation, and not because of 
any improvement in the quality of the light. A student 
lamp should be chosen, like a watch, first of all for its work- 
ing qualities. 

The first consideration, in purchasing a lamp of 
^^^^, any description, is that it must be safe, and that the 

dialing burner is large enough to carry a good-sized wick. 

^•^^ To fulfil the requirements of safety, a lamp 

Beqniro- should stand on a firm, broad base, the oil reser- 
menti ne- voir should have no other opening than that into 
®^[J3J^**' which the burner is screwed, and each burner 
should have an extinguisher. 

The wicks should be soft and of rather a loose mesh. 
They should Jill the burner, and yet not pack it. A wick 

Wieki. *^^* ^^®^ °^^ ^^^ *^® burner will admit air into the 
reservoir, which, in case any gas has collected 
there, may cause an explosion. This matter of the wick is a 
most important one, and should be better understood by the 
dealers in lamps and lamp supplies. When a salesman fits 
a lamp with a wick that is too small, and an explosion fol- 
lows, why should he not be held equally guilty with the drug 
clerk who carelessly puts up a poison instead of the correct 
prescription? Many of the lamp explosions which are occur- 
ring constantly might be traced to this matter of too small 
a wick. It is a subject that concerns every housekeeper, 
and an effort should be made to have the lamps safe in this 
respect at least. 

The essentials of a clear light are clean burners, clean 

wicks, and clean chimneys. Dirty burners and wicks not 

only make a clouded light, but they give off, also, 

Sa'^S ^disagreeable odors. 

light A lamp should never be lighted after standing, 

partially filled, for a day or two. The empty part 

of the reservoir may have become full of gas, and a jar, or 

a current of cold air, may pause an explosion. 



CARE OP UGHTING APPLIANCES 129 

In lighting a lamp, turn down the wick, and put on the 
chimney and shade, then gradually turn the wick up. This 
will give all parts of the glass time to heat slowly 
and to expand equally. Extinguish a lamp by nSti? 
turning the wick fairly well down and then pull- lamp and 
ing the extinguisher. If there is no extinguisher, ^^L^^" 
blow across the top of the chimney, never dovm 
into it, as that might drive the flame into the reservoir, 
where it is always possible that gas may have collected. 

When carrying a lamp from one place to another, turn 
the wick rather low, as the movement produces a current of 
air, causing the flame to flare up and smoke. In 
carrying a student lamp, lighted or unlighted, be ,ying ^ 
careful not to incline it toward the burner, as that lampfrwn 
will cause the oil to overflow— a dangerous thing vj^oe!^ 
when the lamp is lighted, and not a desirable one 
at any time. Be sure, too, that this lamp stands perfectly 
level on the table. 

The daily care of a lamp consists of filling it with oil, 
trimming the wick, wiping the burner and the out- j^^ ^^^ 
side of the lamp, and cleaning the shade and chim- 
ney. This work should be done in the morning while there 
is a good light. 

For this work have a tray, a pair of sharp scis- ^ewwary 
sors, cloth for wiping the lamp, two cloths, one m^ti for 
for the chimneys and one for the shades, and a cleaning 
small brush for the interior of the chimneys. One *°^^"' 
may sometimes find a similar brush, but very small, for wash- 
ing the interior of the burners. 

Cover the tray with paper. Place the reservoirs on this, 
removing the curved top from the burner. Turn the wick 
high enough to expose all the charred part. With 
the sharp scissors cut this off, being careful to cut ©leaning, 
straight across the wick. If there is the slightest 
unevenness, remove it. Now turn the wick well down, and 

9 



130 HOME ECONOMICS 

with a soft paper wipe the top of the burner clean, both in- 
side and outside. When all the lamps are in order, fill them 
with oil, taking care to have the oil come within an inch of 
the top of the reservoir, as space must be allowed for the 
expansion of the oil, and for the fact that the wicks draw it 
upward. 

Be sure that the tops are screwed on firmly. See that 
there is no dirt in the space around the burner which admits 
the air. If this place becomes obstructed the lamp will be 
deprived of one of the essential elements of combustion, 
oxygen, and it will not burn brightly. Wipe the lamps 
carefully, and put all the parts together. 

Once in every two or three weeks wash the burners in 

strong soap-suds or in soda-water. Many persons boil them 

in soda-water, but with the treatment here out- 

biumen. ^^^^^ *^^^ ^^ ^^* necessary, as the burners, if so 
cared for, will never get clogged or have a strong 
odor. The wiping of the lamps may be done with soft pa- 
pers, which can then be burned, using the soft cloths to give 
the final polish. 

The chimneys may be cleaned by breathing into them and 
rubbing clean with soft paper, or they may be washed with 
soap and water, and polished dry with a clean 
ch^S^ cloth. Never leave a drop of water on the chim- 
ney. 
When the supply of oil is taken from sealed cans, cut the 
seal and put in a stopper of some kind, which is, of course, 
removed when pouring out oil. 

A few bubbles of air in the oil-tank of a student lamp will 

often prevent a free flow of oil through the narrow pipe that 

carries the oil from the tank to the burner, causing 

^^?ta!* the lamp to give a dim yellow light. When filling a 

dent lamp. Student lamp bear this in mind, and fill the tank to 

the top, and if any air-bubbles appear break them. 

A lamp in which kerosene-oil is used should burn with a 



CARE OF UGHTING APPLIANCES 131 

clear, white light. If the light is dim and yellow, it is owing 
to one of these causes: the oil is poor; the wick is charred, 
or the burner and wick are dirty; or the wick is 
turned too low; or bubbles of air impede the flow ,9^^J •' 

- ., ' ^ light and 

of oil. 



The wick of the lamp must be turned high enough 
to produce free combustion. If it is turned down i^J^ 
low, the light is not only bad for the eyes, but the '^t 
room will be filled with a vile odor. Should it be 
necessary to have a dim light in the room, set the lamp in 
aii adjoining room, or shade it in such a manner that the 
light is not diffused. On no account lower the wick below 
the point where the light is white and clear. 

When lighting a lamp it must be remembered 
that the current of air is stronger after the lamp ^'JJ^^®*^ 
has been lighted a few minutes ; therefore the wick lamp, 
should not be turned to its full capacity at first. 

The astral-oil that is sold in sealed cans insures a safe 
and good light. 



SOME FACTS IN REGARD TO PETROLEUM 

In this country nearly all our illuminating oil comes from 
the natural mineral oil, termed crude petroleum. The qual- 
ity of the natural product varies greatly, but the process of 
refining should give a safe and good article, no matter what 
the condition of the original product may have been. 

The oil, as it comes from the wells, ranges in color from 
a yellowish white to almost black, and from a liquid nearly 
as thin as water to a thick, ropy mass. The 
lighter and thinner grades are those from which ^^Jf^. 
the greater part of the burning oils are made, ral state. 
These oils are generally sold under the name of 
kerosene. There are other products of petroleum, however, 
which are used in the arts and in the household. An under- 



132 HOME ECONOMICS 

standing of what these are, and of their behavior under va^ 
rious conditions, will enable the housekeeper to know why 
certain conditions and modes of treatment are safe, while 
others are dangerous. 
FxodQotiof From the crude petroleum we get gasolene, 

crude pe- naphtha, kerosene, paraffin, vaseline, etc. 

trolennL r^^ crude oil is put into immense stills, which 
^vOtyijog are heated from beneath, and immediately gases 
pe earn, y^^^^ ^^ j.jgg ^^^^ pj^gg ^y^j,^ ^j^g lightest passing 

over first. In this process of purifying the oil it is very im- 
portant that all the oil that would vaporize or ignite at a 
temperature below 110° F. should be removed. If benzin is 
left in the oil, or added later, the chances of an explosion 
are increased. 

When there is doubt in regard to the safety of an oil, try 

it by filling a cup about a quarter full of cold water. Put a 

thermometer into this, and add boiling water until the mercury 

rises to 110° F. Then take out the thermometer, 

gS ^f ^^^ P^^^ ^ couple of spoonfuls of the oil into the 

oil cup. With a lighted match or taper try to ignite 
the oil. If it takes fire it is unsafe and should 
not be used for lamps or stoves. 

Oil that stands this test, or even a test as high as 135° F. 
if left in a lamp partially filled for a day or two, will some- 
times vaporize, filling the vacant space of the reservoir with 
a gas that will explode if mixed with air and there is a pos- 
sibility of the mixture coming in contact with the flame. 

Important ^* ^® ^^^ *^^^ reason that we should not let lamps 
points in stand partially full of oil and then light them; 
®*" <*' that we should be careful that the wicks fill the 
burners, so that there may be no room for a pas- 
sage of air; and that we should never blow down on the fiame, 
thus running the risk of driving it against the gas that may 
have collected near the burner. 



CHAPTER VII 

FUEL AND HRES 

Kinds of fuel. Care of the furnace fire. The morning work. The cold- 
air box. Heating-stoves. Care of the range. Some points to remember 
in the treatment of range fires. Grate fires. Don'ts. To remove clinkers. 

The fuel that is used for cooking and heating is an im- 
portant item for the housekeeper. This is one of the house- 
hold supplies that should be bought in bulk whenever 
possible. The best time to lay in the yearly supply is in the 
late summer or early autumn. Certainly the arrangements 
as to price and time of delivery should be made in the sum- 
mer, when, as a rule, prices are lower than later in the 
season. 

If one lives in a city, and the coal is carried to the bin 
through a hole in the sidewalk, the care of putting away 
the coal is somewhat less than when one must 
see that the side of the house, lawn, and flower- ticm"of" 
beds are properly protected. In any case there cellar, etc., 
is the inevitable dust and work in the cellar, and ^ff^ 
once a year is often enough for this extra work 
and care to fall upon the household. When the coal is to 
be put into the bins through an opening in the side of the 
house, this part of the building should be protected by thick 

folds of carpet or burlaps tacked over such places as are 

133 



134 HOME ECONOMICS 

likely to be rubbed by the men in putting the coal into the 
chute. 

Should it be necessary to pass over the lawn, protect it by 
laying down boards for the men to walk over. The cellar 
windows must be opened, and all doors opening 
^UtroT ^^*^ *^® coal-room should be closed. The regis- 
ters throughout the house should be closed and 
covered with paper. Coal- and wood-bins must be perfectly 
clean. All the boards used in closing up the bins should be 
ready for the workmen. 

After the wood and coal are in, take the carpets from the 
walls, fold them, and put them in place; take up the boards 

aeaninffof ^^^^ *^® lawn, and put them, with the carpets, 
oeUar after ready for use the next time. Sweep the cellar 
-^^^ with a damp broom. Brush the coal-dust from 
walls and articles in the room, sweeping the floor 
a second time. Have the sidewalk swept clean, and the chips 
and bits of coal removed from the lawn. See that the open- 
ings used by the workmen are all properly fastened. Look 
after the windows and doors in the cellar; it sometimes hap- 
pens that a sneak-thief thinks this is a good chance to get 
into the house. 

KINDS OF FUEL 

The cost and kind of fuel used depend largely upon the 

section of the country in which one lives. In New England 

wood and anthracite coal are the principal fuels. 

Unds^ Gas and petroleum are used to some extent for 

fdoL heating and cooking, and the soft or bituminous 

coal is sometimes used for grates. 
We speak of the two kinds of coal— anthracite and 
bituminous. These two coals are quite different in appear- 
ance and in manner of combustion. Pure anthracite has a 
high luster and burns without flame. Bituminous coal is 



FUEL AND FIRES 135 

not SO hard or lustrous, and burns with a flame; it also 
throws off black smoke, and for this reason is not used when 
the anthracite canbe had at a reasonable price. There are 
grades of coal between the anthracite and the bituminous; 
for example, there is a bituminous coal which has been in 
the transition state and would have become good anthracite 
had the conditions remained favorable. This coal looks dull 
and breaks up more readily than the pure anthracite. It 
should not cost as much as the genuine hard coal. 

With nearly all coal-seams there is a slaty deposit. It is 
often as black as coal, but it splits in thin sheets, 
and it is not difficult to recognize it among the 8^**^ ?«• 
coals. The housekeeper should always make it a coaL 
point to examine the first load of coal, to see that 
it has the right appearance, i. e., that it looks brilliant and 
is not mixed with this slaty substance. 

There are two kinds of anthracite coal— the white ash and 
the red. The combustion of the red ash is more perfect 
than that of the white ash. For the range or stoves a mix- 
ture of the two is excellent. The red ash generally costs a 
dollar more a ton than the white. Anthracite coal comes in 
a variety of sizes— nut, egg, range, grate, furnace, etc. 

In selecting coal, the size of the grate or fire-box must be 
taken into consideration. A small fire-box will require a 
smaller size of coal than would a large one, and so gi^^of poaL 
it is with the grate. If one uses small coal in a 
grate the bars of which are far apart, there will naturally 
be a great deal of waste. So, really, one must make the ac- 
quaintance of furnace and range before ordering the supply 
of coal. 

Wood, in the ordinary household, is used more ^?^ ^' 
as a kindling than as a regular fuel. When em- ftc.""*' 
ployed as a kindling there should be a mixture 
of hard and soft wood, well seasoned, cut short, and split 
rather fine. 



136 HOME ECONOMIGS 

When wood is used as a fuel in a stove or fireplace, at 
least three fourths of the supply should be hard wood. For 
the fireplace the pieces should be large; for the cooking- 
stove there should be a mixture of fine and coarse wood. It 
is always better to have the wood cut too short than the 
least bit too long. 

It is very important that wood should be well seasoned. 
Green wood throws out very little heat, a great part of the 
heat being absorbed by the moisture in the wood. 

CARE OP THE FURNACE FHIE 

All furnaces are constructed on certain general principles. 
In every furnace, no matter what particular make it may be, 
there are the hot-air pipes, the chimney-pipe, the 
tto^^'fft?" damper for chimney-pipe, the check, the drafts in 
naoe. the lower doors, the dust-damper, the water-pan, 
the fire-pot, and the cold-air box. The house- 
keeper should acquaint herself with them all at the start. 

The shape of the fire-pot is important. A fire-pot that is 
deep, but small at the top, will not heat a house as well as 

The fire- ^^® *^^^ ^^ shallower but has a broader top sur- 
pot face. 

deaningof Every one of the flues and pipes of the furnace 
flues and must be cleaned once a year; the spring is the best 
^^^ time for this. 

In the autumn, before a fire is built, examine all the pipes 
carefully. See that the water-pan is filled. Put kindling in 
the fire-pot. See that all the registers are closed, 
^totii^' Open the drafts of the furnace, and bum bits of 
the fire, paper near the smoke-pipe. This will start a cur- 
rent of air upward. Now light the kindling, and 
put on the wood. After a few minutes put on a layer of 
coal. When this gets to burning well, add enough coal to 
make a deep bed. 



FUEL AND FIRES 137 

Have' the registers opened, and open the air-box. As 
soon as the coal shows that it is getting well ignited, close 
the drafts and let the fire burn slowly. When the house is 
warm enough, open the check a little. 

This fire will require no more attention until evening, 
when a little more coal or cinders may be put on, and the 
damper Qpened a few minutes to let the gas escape. Close 
the drafts, and check the fire for the night. 

THE MORNING WORK 

In looking after the furnace in the morning, the check 
must first be closed and a thin layer of coal put on. Now 
take up the ashes that are in the bottom of the 
furnace. By the time this is done the fire will have ttet^ 
burned up. Next open the dust-damper and shake 
the fire, and with the long poker draw all the clinkers from 
the bottom of the grate. Then put on a thick bed of fresh 
coal, and, if you have hods or iron-clad barrels, take up the 
ashes. Let the fire bum for about ten minutes after the 
final coal has been put on, and close the smoke-damper, leav- 
ing a portion of the slide in the lower door open until the fire 
has burned up well,— that is, it should begin to look red on 
the top,— then close the slide. 

In extremely cold^ weather the fire must be shaken down at 
night, and a good bed of coal put on. It is better to do this in 
the early part of the evening, so that the house may 
be comfortable. Sometimes, in very cold weather, ^t^^^ 
it may be necessary to have the slide in the lower 
door opened a tiny bit. In this case it will be advisable to 
put on a couple of hodfuls of coal in the middle of the day. 

One should keep old gloves, a cap, and some light, loose 
overgarment to vear when attending to the furnace. 

See "Care of the Range" for explanation of dampers, 
drafts, and checks. 



138 HOME ECONOMIGS 

The furnace must be supplied with all the fresh "air that 

it can heat. The air enters through the cold-air box, which 

is opened and closed with a slide which regulates 

Fresh air ^jj^^ g^^ ^f g^jj. jf there is much wind blowing 

forfomaoe. outside, the slide should be only partly open; if, 
on the other hand, there is little or no wind, the 

slide should be opened wider. 
When the air coming through the registers is cool, it 

shows that more air is coming through the cold-air box than 
can be heated in the furnace; in this case the slide 

Bejfuiat- must be more nearly closed. 

ixiflT supply 

of cold air. When there is a good fire, and yet but little heat 

is coming through the registers, the supply of air 

is not suflicient, and the slide of the air-box must be opened. 

THE COLD-AIR BOX 

When a house is heated by a furnace, the cold-air box is 
an important adjunct of the heating system. 

It must be remembered that nearly all the warm air that 
is driven through the pipes must come from out of doors 
Imvor- tbrough the cold-air box; part of the air is drawn, 
tanoe of also, from the cellar. If the air thus heated and 
^^^ circulated through the house is pure, it follows 
that the atmosphere must be in a healthful con- 
dition, always provided that there is a proper outlet for the 
foul and exhausted air. If, on the contrary, the air that passes 
through the cold-air box and the air of the cellar are contam- 
inated, the whole atmosphere of the house will be impure. 

The location of the outer opening of the cold-air box, or 

boxes,— for it is best that there should be one on each of 

two sides of the house, when possible, —demands 

^iSSSr^' most careful attention. No matter where or how 

box. the house is built, the cold-air box should be 

placed only where it may receive uncontaminated 



^/" 



FUEL AND FIRES 139 

air. It must not open near a drain or cesspool, or near the 
opening of a sewer. It should be high enough from the 
ground to avoid the drawing in of damp air. Over the out- 
side opening a fine wire netting should be fastened, and over 
this a coarser one for the protection of the first. These net- 
tings should be removed occasionally to admit the long brush 
used in cleaning out the box. 

A clean box drawing in pure air means health; a dirty box 
drawing in dust and impure air means disease. 

It seems to me that if one can be sure that the supply of 
air is pure and the water-box is kept full, the hot-air furnace, 
taken all in all, gives the purest and most healthful atmo- 
sphere to a house. 

HEATING-STOVES 

The management of fires in stoves used exclusively for 
heating purposes is practically the same as that of the 
furnace fire. The fire in a stove should be raked 
down and the ashes removed in the morning. Ma^age- 

^ ment of 

Fresh coal should be put on, and the drafts and fire, 
damper kept open long enough for the coal to 
ignite and the gas to pass off. The stove should then be 
closed, the damper always left slightly open to allow all 
gas to pass up the chimney. This precaution of leaving an 
outlet for the gas is necessary with all stoves, ranges, and 
furnaces, but with the stove in the living-rooms the greatest 
possible care must be taken that there is no chance for the 
escape of gas into the room. 

The air of a room that is heated by a stove be- Bowl of 
comes very dry. To counteract this, a bowl of ^jj^^ve?^ 
water should always stand on top of the stove; or- 
namental iron vases for this purpose are often supplied with 
the stove. The bowl or vase should be washed every morn- 
ing and refilled with fresh water. 



140 HOME ECONOMICS 



CARE OF THE RANGE 

To get the best possible results from the coal-range it 

must be treated carefully and intelligently. Each morning 

all the ashes should be removed, leaving, however, 

j^^ ' a thin coating on the top of the oven to protect 

the metal and temper the heat in that place. 
Keep all the flues clear; those under the oven should be 
cleaned once a month. The fine ashes, that are carried over 
Keeping ^^ *^® current of hot air that passes around and 
the floes under the oven, accumulate here, and if not re- 
^^^' moved frequently will prevent a free circulation of 
hot air about the oven, which, naturally, will refuse to bake. 
The ashes, by absorbing heat and impeding circulation, in- 
terfere with a proper heating of the oven. 

Every morning, after the ashes have been removed and the 

fire made, all the dust should be brushed from every part of 

the range ; it should then be rubbed oflf with a damp 

range. ^ paper, and the top polished with a thin coating of 

black-lead. Finally the dry blacking-brush should 

be used to polish every part. 

Black-lead should never be put on over dirt, and, indeed, 
should only be used when the surface has lost its black look. 
The polishing should be brisk and thorough; if not, the bot- 
toms of the saucepans will become soiled. This never hap- 
pens when the range is properly polished. Throughout the 
day, whenever the range becomes soiled, rub it off with a 
soft newspaper. 

A thorough acquaintance with the drafts and checks is 
imperative. When the range is free from fire, examine every 
Knowledge P^^ ^^ !*• Open and close the drafts and checks 
of drafts until you become familiar with their working. 
^ ^ ^ * Learn the location of the damper that carries heat 
and smoke directly into the chimney-flue. This is often 



FUEL AND FIRES 141 

called the smoke-damper, which is the term that will be used 
in this book. It is the most important damper in the range, 
and the one that causes the most trouble if not properly 
used. 

Learn the direction in which a check or damper abontwn- 
must be turned for the purpose of opening or clos- flues, 
ing it. 

Acquaint yourself with the air-chambers or flues about 
the oven. 

Examine the grate to see how the contents are dumped 
and the ashes removed without disturbing the fire. 

Learn to make the fire and to regulate it. This may seem 
difiicult at first, but it is a matter that may soon be con- 
quered, if one goes about it patiently and intelligently. 

Anthracite coal is one of the most difficult fuels for the 
beginner to manage; but once having learned its require- 
ments, it will be found one of the most satisf ac- ^^ ^ 
tory and constant of friends. We will begin with manage 
the treatment of it. Have all the drafts of the ftntinadte 

ooal. 

range open and all the checks closed. See that 
there are no coals, and only a thin layer of ashes, on top of 
the oven. Have the ash-box under the grate free from ashes 
and cinders. 

Put a layer of paper, lightly crumpled, in the grate. On 
this lay sticks of kindling-wood, placed crosswise upon each 
other, so that there may be a current of air 
through them. On the bed of light wood put ^"^^^^ * 
a layer of hard wood cut rather fine. Cover range, 
the range, and light the paper. Just as soon 
as the wood begins to bum, which will be in two or three 
minutes, put on a thin layer of coal, and when this begins 
to ignite add enough coal to reach within two inches of the 
top of the fire-box. Close the smoke-damper, but keep the 
draft at the bottom of the grate open until the fire begins to 
look red; then close the draft. This fire should do good 



112 HOME ECONOMICS 

work for several hours, vhen another layer of coal may be 

put on. 

When but little heat is required the drafts may all be 
closed and some of the checks opened. When the fire is not 
How to '"■ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ checks should be opened. This will 
msnaga keep the lire smoldering for many hours, ready to 
^J°JJ*?L be brought to a brisk heat by the closing of the 
checks and the opening of the drafts. By the 
proper use of the checks and drafts of a range it is possible 
to increase or diminish the heat at will. An explanation of 
the checks, dampers, and drafts is necessary here. 

The damper is a flat plate of any shape, which when shut 
nearly—nevdT quite— closes the opening into that part of 
the range connected with the chimney-flue. When 
^•^ °' *^® damper is closed there is a slight drawing of 
dampsr. heat through the flue and up the chimney; when 
it is open the waves of heat go directly over the 
top of the oven and into the chimney. The combustion 
of the coal is rapid when this damper is open, and there- 
fore the heat on the top of the range is very great, the 
lids often getting red- 
hot. The heat, how- 
ever, does not linger 
here; it passes swiftly 
through the chimney- 
flue and is lost in the 
outside atmosphere. 
When the smoke- 
j damper is open the 
waves of heat follow 
rig. I the direction of the ar- 

rows in Fig. 9. 
Although the coal is now consumed rapidly, and the heat 
it gives out is intense, it would be impossible to bake in the 
oven. The top is hot, but the sides and bottom are cool. 



FUEL AKD FIRES 143 

This is because the great gate, as it were, is wide open, and 
the heat rushes out that way instead of going by the long 
and circuitous route it would talte if the gate 
were closed. '*^°' 

This damper should be opened only long enough imok*- 
to get the fire thoroughly started. If the chim- ^^^ 
ney has a good draft this will not require more opened. 
than ten or fifteen minutes. 

When the smoke-damper is closed the waves of hot air 
pass over the oven, down the side, then under it, and up the 
back to the flue, thus surrounding the oven with _, ^j^, 
a bath of hot air. The following diagram (Fig, 9a) of oponln^ 
shows roughly the course the hot air takes when ^**" 
the smoke-damper ia closed. A careful study of 
the diagrams will teach more about the circulation of the 
hot air than pages of description could convey. Here we 
see how the hot air is 
doing its f uUduty.owing 
to the closed damper, 
and, also, the waste that 
is caused when the air 
is allowed to escape by 
the open damper. 

The drajls are the 
doors, or slides, which 
come below the fire-box. 
When they are open a Y\i.»a. 

strong current of air 

passes up through the fire, causing more rapid combustion 
than when the air finds its way in lesser quantities through 
cracks and small openings. 

When the smoke-damper is closed and the drafis dosing 
are open the waves of hot au- circulate around the ^™ 
oven (see Fig, 9a). If it is desired to have the heaia tho 
oven very hot, these drafts should be opened wide. ""^ 



144 HOME EGONOMIGS 

If a baking heat is required, they should be nearly or wholly 
closed, according, of course, to the thoroughness with which 
the chimney draws, and to the construction of the range. 

The cheeks are slides in the small door in the front of the 

range, that is, higher than the fire-box. When these checks 

are opened, a current of cold air passes over the 

^^ ^ fire and thus retards combustion. Sometimes there 

011600 

work. is an extra check or damper in the pipe that con- 
nects the range with the chimney-flue. 
When the checks are vnde open the combustion of fuel is 
slight, and the temperature in the oven and on the surface of 
the range is greatly lowered. 

It will be seen from a study of the drafts and checks that 

the open drafts cause the fire to bum rapidly; that the open 

cheeks retard combustion; that when a hot fire is 

'oonSut** W2i^*®d *^® cheeks are dosed and the drafts opened; 

tum. that to obtain a moderate heat the drqfts are par- 

tially or wholly dosed; that the temperature is kw- 

ered by partially opening the cheeks; and that merely to keep 

the fire ''alive" the drafts should be dosed and the cheeks 

opened fully. 

SOME POINTS TO REMEMBER IN THE TREATMENT OP 

RANGE FIRES 

1. To have a fire burn freely there must be a free circula- 
tion of air through the fuel; therefore wood and coal must 
be put on lightly and in such a manner that the 

^ftre^pnS.* ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ freely through the whole bed. Sticks 

oriy. of wood must cross, or partially cross, each other. 

Coal must never he packed dovm, nor must it reach 

to the lids, thus preventing a free circulation of air. 

^make 2. A current of air under the fire causes it to 

bam burn; the larger and purer the quantity of air, the 

^"^■'dy. more freely the fire bums and the greater the heat. 



FUEL AND FIRES 145 

8. A current of cold air flowing over the fire, and the 
absence of a current of air flowing from the bottom up 
through the fire, cause it to bum slowly and to 
give out but little heat. "EttdetM of 

4. When the large damper leading du-ectly into "5^^^ 
the flue is opened, the fire burns rapidly, and the under flro. 
heat passes over the top of the oven, going imme- 
diately into the chimney. Therefore this damper, known as 
the smoke-damper, should be closed as soon as the fire begins 
to burn, usually not more than ten minutes after the fire has 
been lighted. 

5. When the oven is required very hot, have the drafts 
open and the checks closed. When a little lower tempera- 
ture is required, partially close the drafts; to re- 
duce the temperature still lower, wholly close '^iJ^fSS? 
them; when an extremely low temperature is re- tSe 
quired, open the checks; and, finally, when the 

fire is not in use, open all the checks. This care of damp- 
ers, drafts, and checks will insure a high or low temperature 
when you desire it. It will save you from tormenting your- 
self and the fire by continual shaking, poking, and piling on of 
coal. It will also save valuable time, strength, and material. 

6. Keep all the oven-flues free from fine ashes. Eemoving 
Empty the ash-pan of the range and replace it be- ^^ "^•■' 
fore you make the fire. Remember that the ashes will ab- 
sorb a good part of the first heat of the fire. 

7. Never let the fire bum up to a white heat. The coals 
are exhausted in this way before they have had time to do 
their work. Watch the fire, and as soon as the ^^ proyeat 
coals begin to look red, close the drafts, unless a Are bam- 
very hot fire is required at that time. Avoid shak- ^feheat 
ing down the fire, thus packing the coals and cut- 
ting off a free passage of air through them. If you do not 
have a grate that cuts the bottom from the fire, use a poker 
to remove the ashes from the bottom of the grate. 

10 



146 HOME ECONOMICS 

8. It must be remembered that a bed of coal that is too 
shallow will not bum; it should be at least seven inches deep; 
DeDth of ^^* ^^ ^^ account should the coal come to the top 
bedofooaL of the fire-box. 

9. An anthracite coal fire should not be stirred 

*ft^* on the top. Bituminous coal fires often require a 

little stirring when a hot fire is wanted. 

10. When one cooks with wood, a bed of clear coals for 

broiling may be obtained by filling the stove with hard wood, 

Preparing and shutting all the dampers that the wood may 

*totaS^* bum slowly. The oven will be in good condition 

ing. for baking with this slow, even fire. 

GRATE FIRES 

The combustion of the grate fire is regulated by a back 
damper, and a blower, or " apron." 

When the back damper is opened, and the blower or apron 

in place, the air is drawn under and through the fuel, and 

passes out by way of the chimney-flue. Under 

Slwr *^®^® conditions the combustion is rapid and the 

andUower. heat great, but much of this heat goes up the 

chimney. Therefore, as soon as the fire is ignited, 

the blower should be raised and the damper closed. If this 

is done while the coals are still black on top, you will have a 

fire that will grow bright and hot gradually, and that will 

last the greater part of the day. 

Samedireo- '^^^ directions given for making the range fire 
tunu apply will apply also to the grate fire. 

The grate should be kept black, and the hearth 
clean and bright. 

don'ts 



tomte' 



1. Don't stir a hard-coal fire on the top. 

2. Don't pack the coal. 



FUEL AND FIRES 147 

8. Don't let the coal come to the top of the lining of the 
fire-box. 

4. Don't let the ashes remain in the ash-pan to absorb the 
heat. 

TO REMOVE CLINKERS 

When clinkers adhere to the lining of the fire-box, they 
may be easily removed. Put a thick bed of oyster- or clam- 
shells on the red-hot fire. The heat converts the shells into 
quicklime, which loosens the clinkers. If the shells are not 
to be had, put a few pounds of quicklime on the fire. In the 
morning, when the cinders and ashes are removed, the 
clinkers may be detached from the lining by a few light 
blows of the poker. If any still adhere, do not use force, 
but try the shells or lime again the next day. 

The reason why there are clinkers at all in the range is 
because the fire has been allowed to bum up to a white 
heat. Proper attention to the fire, and a care to remove all 
substances from the lining of the fire-box every morning, 
thus keeping it smooth, will prevent this annoyance. 



CHAPTER VIII 

TABLE SERVICE 

General arrangements of the table. The breakfast-table. The dinner- 
table. The luncheon-table. The tea-table. Waiting on the table. Cere- 
monious entertaining. Some points on table etiquette. The duties of 
the waitress. Protecting the table from hot dishes* 

On the proper table service much of the comfort, cheer- 
fulness, and refinement of the family depend. No amount 
of lavishness and perfection in the preparation of the food will 
compensate for poor arrangements and service in the dining- 
room. The most perfect order, and yet the greatest free- 
dom, should exist. Table manners and service are an 
excellent gage of the refinement of a family and of a people. 

There are certain definite rules which should be followed 
in all households, from the very simplest to the most 
Unwritten si^^iip^iious. Then, there are unwritten laws of 
laws of good breeding which will naturally lead people of 
goodbreed- innate refinement to be careful, in act and speech, 
to do nothing at table which could give offense to 
the most fastidious. 

It is the duty of every one to do his or her part to make 
the time passed at table as bright and full of cheer as possi- 
ble. The worry, haste, lack of conversation, and often the 
ill temper shown at table have much to do with the national 

disease known as dyspepsia. 

148 



TABLE SERVICE 149 

The dining-room should be well lighted and well ventilated. 
The chairs should be comfortable, with backs that are almost 
straight, and they should be absolutely firm and 
strong. The table should be broad; it is nearly ^JntiS 
impossible to arrange a narrow table elegantly. ti<»« 

No matter what the style of living may be,— ^ 

and this applies to the simplest as well as the most ahonid 
elaborate households,— there should always be a aiway»be 
care to make the table and food pleasing to the txaotiye. 
eye. Well-laundered table-linen, tableware that 
has been properly washed and wiped and that is arranged in 
an orderly manner, are the strongest factors in making a 
table elegant and attractive. A few flowers loosely ar- 
ranged, a bunch of ferns, or a small plant or fern will adorn 
and brighten a table more than any other one thing that can 
be used. Such decorations are in place on the humblest or 
the most sumptuous tables. 

The table-linen should be of as fine a quality as one's purse 
will allow. The oftener a good piece of linen is laundered, 
the more beautiful it grows, so that a good mate- xaMe-linon 
rial is always cheap in the end. If the table-linen muit be 
is of a fine, heavy quality, it should not be starched. ^^^'^'' 
If, however, it is thin, it will require a very littU 
starch to give it body. (See " Table-linen," under " Laundry.") 

It would be impossible to give rules for table service that 
would apply to all families, but there are certain fundamental 
principles which must be observed in any well-ordered home. 
In the sections on the " General Arrangements of the Table," 
"Waiting on the Table," and "The Duties of the Waitress" 
these principles are embodied. When one has made herself 
mistress of these methods, it is not a difficult matter to en- 
large upon or abbreviate the table service, as special occa- 
sions and one's manner of living may demand. 

Ceremonious occasions call for special service; Special ser- 
the sections on company dinners, luncheons, ^^' 



160 HOME ECONOMIGS 

suppers, etc., will aid the housekeeper in mapping out such 
entertainments. 

It must never be forgotten that the personality of the 

mistress of the house should be felt in all the appointments 

of her table, both in the intimacy of her family, 

iStY drSbe ^^^ ^^ *^® "^^^® formal occasions when she enter- 
miftroM. tains her friends. 

Certain rules that are understood and observed 
by all well-bred people, the world over, cannot be changed; 
but decorations and the minor services should have a dis- 
tinct individuality. 

GENERAL ARRANGEMENTS OP THE TABLE 

, As far as it relates to the table, there is one point in the 
dining-room that may be regarded as the center. The 
chandelier is usually this point. The center of the table 
should come exactly under the center of the chandelier. 

The first proceeding in the laying of the table is the pla- 
cing of the thick cloth, either felt, double Canton flannel, or 
one of the many thick materials that are made 
^^S^ for this purpose. When this under-cloth is 
smoothly in place, spread the linen cloth over it, 
taking care to have the crease in the middle of the cloth 
come exactly in the middle of the table, and crossing the 
crease of the cross-fold precisely at the center. The lines 
of the table being true, next put the plates in position. If 
you cannot measure accurately with your eye, use 
the^Sei. ^ yardstick to determine the distance between the 
plates, which should be at least twenty inches. 
When the plates are correctly placed it will be easy to ar- 
range the table symmetrically. The center ornament should 
next be put in place, and after that the silver and glass. 

Place knives and spoons at the right of the plate, having 
the ends of the handles near the edge of the table, the sharp 



TABLE SERVICE 151 

edge of the knives toward the plate, and the inside of the 
bowls of the spoons turned up. The forks should be at the 
left side of the plate, with the inside turned up. y^^^^ 
Place the glasses at the right of the plate, the forki, and 
water-glass just coming to the point of the knife. ?!*••«■• 
If carving-cloths are used, arrange them before ^ ^^, 
the plates are put on the table. Fresh napkins 
may be put on the plates, or at the left-hand side of the 
plates; the napkins in rings go at the side of the plates. 

Individual salt-cellars are the most satisfactory, provided 
there are small spoons to go with them. In any case, 
whether individual or large salt-cellars are used, 
there must be a small spoon for each salt-cellar. ^^ ' 
The individual salt-cellars are placed at the top 
of the plates, the large ones at the comers of the table, or 
at the sides, where they may be within reach of several peo- 
ple. It is a saving of time for the waitress if water carafes 
are used. There should be one carafe to every three or four 
people. A bowl of crushed ice, if ice is served, and a spoon 
should be placed near the carafe. 

THE BREAKFAST-TABLE 

The arrangement of the breakfast-table is after the gen- 
eral plan already given. If fruit and mush are served, there 
should be a fruit-knife and teaspoon at the side of each plate 
with the knife. Finger-bowls and fruit-doilies 
should always be provided when fruit is served, nmge^t 

Warm dishes for the mush, and a tablespoon of the 
with which to serve it, may be set before a mem- 'Sbi"*' 
ber of the family. 

Cups and saucers, sugar, cream, and rests for the hot 
coffee and milk, should be placed in front of the mistress of 
the house. Knife, fork, and spoons may be placed at the 
head of the table for serving the substantial dishes, and 



152 HOME ECONOMIGS 

small butter-plates and butter-knife may be set near the 
butter-dish. If there should be griddle-cakes, waffles, or 
fried mush, an extra set of knives, forks, and hot plates 
must be ready for this course. 

THE DINNER-TABLE 

In preparing the table for dinner follow the general direc- 
tions for arranging the table. The carving-set and knife- 
and-fork rests may be laid at the carver's place; the soug- 
ladle goes at the place of the mistress. 

Oil and vinegar bottles should be placed on small doilies 
at one side of the table, or, when the service is ample, they 
may be brought to the tabl^ when needed. 

The dishes for the various courses must be arranged in 
the pantry or on the sideboard. The bread for this meal 
may be laid in the fold of the napkin, or passed when the 
soup is served, or, if the service is limited, the plate of bread 
may be placed on the table. 

THE LUNCHEON-TABLE 

The arrangement of this table is practically the same as 
already given in the general directions, with the addition of 
the proper articles for serving the food appropriate to this 
meal. 

THE TEA-TABLE 

The tea-table should be bright and cheery. For this 

meal dainty china and sparkling glass and silver are specially 

The tea- desirable. All the articles for making and serv- 

table ing the tea should be placed beside the plate of 

^Jj^2^^ the mistress. This includes tea-cups and saucers, 

sugar, cream, tea-pot, hot-water pot, and slop- 

bowL If the tea is to be made at the table, the tea-kettle, 



TABLE SERVICE 153 

Slled with boiling water, should be in place, and the lamp 
under it should be lighted just as the family sit down to the 
table. 

The substantial dish, be it hot or cold, should be placed 
at the end of the table, opposite the tea service. As this 
meal usually consists of tea, bread and butter, j^maun- 
cold meat or some hot relish, cake and some form ment and 
of cooked or preserved fruit, the food may be "S^^^^^^ 
placed on the table before the family take their 
places. When the usual tea is replaced by a hot supper, it 
is necessary to have warm plates, and to change the plates 
when the sweets are served. 

WAITING ON THE TABLE 

The waitress should stand at the back of the mistress, or 
while the meat is being carved at the back of the carver. 
She should take each plate, as it is ready to serve, 
in her right hand, and place it before the person ^twii. 
for whom it is intended. 

If vegetables or a sauce are to be served with the meat, 
they should follow as quickly as possible, the waitress pass- 
ing the dishes on a tray, or holding them in her ^^ ^^ 
hands. She must go to the left side of the per- waitrow 
son served, and hold the dishes so low that one '^^"'^* 
can serve one's self with ease. 

Everjrthing is served at the left, except water and other 
liquids that must be poured into a glass. All soiled dishes 
should be removed from the left. Sometimes this is done 
from the right. 

The plate of soup, fish, meat, etc., should be placed in 
front of the person served, not held for him to take. The 
waitress should hold all large dishes in her hands, and pass 
small ones on a tray. 

At a dinner or luncheon, before serving the dessert, 



164 HOME ECONOMICS 

everything except the glasses, olives, confectionery, and 

fruit must be removed, and the table must be brushed free 

from crumbs. The best implements for doing 

What ihaU jjj^jg qj.q j^ small tray, and a broad-bladed knife 

removed, like a fish-knife. This knife should be used 

gently and lightly, so as not to injure the texture 

of the fine damask. Pieces of bread, or any fragments that 

may have fallen on the table, are to be lifted with this knife 

and put on the tray. 

The waitress should never pile one dish upon another. 

When one has finished a course, the knife, fork, or spoon 

should be placed in the center of the plate. If two pieces 

of silver have been used, they should be placed 

v^^^v side by side upon the plate, not at an angle to each 

and ipoon other, that there may be no danger of accidents 

^^hM^* when the plate is lifted. The waitress should not 

ftauBhed. attempt to take more than two such plates at a 

time. The large dishes should be carried out in 

WAes the hands. Small dishes may be placed on a tray 
bepUedrale ^^^ *^^® carried out, but they should never be 
on another, piled one upon the other. Unless the carver is 
careful to place the carving-knife and -fork in a 
secure position, it is best to avoid all possibility of accidents 
by removing them on the tray. 

In order to make the various changes quickly, it will be 
found a great convenience to have a large table in the 
pantry off the dining-room, where the dishes may be placed 
as .they are removed from the table. If there is a second 
person here, who can sort the dishes and put them aside as 
rapidly as they are brought out, matters will be much 
simplified. 

CEREMONIOUS ENTERTAINING 

When entertaining ceremoniously, the hostess has many 
things to consider. If your friends drop in unexpectedly, or 



TABLE SERVICE 155 

come frequently and without ceremony, it is true hospitality 
to give a cordial welcome and share with them that which 
was provided for your own family. A consider- 
ate person would feel very uncomfortable if he ^HHJ!^ 
felt or knew that his hostess had been incom- aadfiir*- 
moded by his arrival. When one sets a time for ^J*!^^ 
entertaining one's friends it is another case. hoitMiaa 
From the time your guest enters your house until SJ??* ^ 
he departs you are responsible for his comfort tality. 
and happiness, and by your forethought and care 
everything that can be done toward that end should be done. 

The first consideration is the selection of your guests. 
They must be people who are congenial to each other, or, if 
there are strangers, care must be taken that they 
are all people whom you have reason to think ^^J^Jj^J" 
would be congenial. guafUfhat 

Having settled upon your guests, your next step *^ "^^ 
is to provide the best entertainment that your genial 
means and dyle (f living will permit. Nothing can 
be in worse taste than to attempt to entertain in the same 
manner in which your friends entertain, if they are richer or 
poorer than yourself. 

Never attempt more than you can do well with the appli- 
ances and help at your command. A simple dinner of three 
courses, where everything is of the best quality, 
perfectly cooked and served, and where the hos- oewatoT 
tess is at her ease, is more likely to be a sue- nermuitbe 
cess than an elaborate dinner, badly prepared and g^ed. 
served, with a hostess distrait and embarrassed. 
Of course, if money is no consideration, and one has a well- 
equipped household, entertaining may be an easy matter for 
the hostess, if she has the true spirit of hospitality, and 
understands how to select her guests and control her forces. 
For the woman with but one servant, or the one who does 
her own work and who must make every dollar count, it is 



156 HOME ECONOMICS 

another matter. At the same time, this latter class should 
not deprive themselves and their friends of one of the most 
delightful pleasures of domestic life. If such 
modente women will make it a rule to entertain simply and 
meansmay in accordance with their purses and mode of life, 
Sytl they will give and receive a great deal of plea- 
wdl with sure. 

^""^■*'" Fashion changes in the manner of dinner-giv- 
ing, as in everything else. Formerly the company 
dinner was, with its numerous courses and long hours at ta- 
ble, a thing to be dreaded as much by the guest as by the 
hostess. To-day the dinner is much simpler, and generally 
much more successful as a gastronomic and social affair. 

In this country the order of a simple company dinner is 

about as follows. The first course is oysters or clams on the 

half -shell, or canapis of sardines, caviar, or some 

^JJ^*^ other light relish; or the dinner may begin with 

eonnes. the soup. This is followed by the fish, with which 

a sauce is served, and, of course, bread. Some 

hostesses serve potato in some form with this course. 

The next course, relevi, may be either a joint of butcher 
meat or poultry, roasted, boiled, or broiled, and one vegeta- 
ble. If the fish was boiled or baked, and served with a 
sauce, the releve may be omitted, and the entree come next. 
Following the entree may come a water-ice, half frozen, or 
a cheese course or vegetable course. After this course, 
roast or broiled poultry or game, with a salad which is to be 
eaten with it, is served. The salad may be of lettuce, sorrel, 
chicory, cresses, etc., with French dressing, or it may be of 
crisp white celery with mayonnaise dressing. Some light, 
cold, sweet dish may form the dessert. The dinner should 
be finished with small cups of strong black coffee, which 
may be served in the dining-room or in the drawing-room. 
Cream and sugar should be passed with the coffee. This 
would be considered by many dinner-givers as too simple an 



TABLE SERVICE 157 

entertainment; but if it is well cooked and served it will be 
an elegant and satisfactory one. 

The dinner is usually given at night, and it must be 
remembered that the lights, guests, and attendants soon 
exhaust the oxygen of the air, therefore the ven- 
tilation of the dining-room must be carefully at- ^Soe rf 
tended to, and it must be seen that no one is ex- good yen- 
posed to a draft. The heating apparatus, too, ^^^^wa 
must be regulated; the amount of best coming dinner, 
into the room should be diminished after the Boommnit 

not DO too 

guests are seated. An overheated room and bad wann. 
air will make a failure of the finest dinner. 

A synopsis of the method of serving the dinner may be 
helpful to the beginner. 

1. Raw oysters, or other hors-cPceuvref are served on 
special or small plates, which are placed in the g-^^^p^ ^,f 
plate already before the guest. method of 

2. Oyster-plates removed, and soup placed be- J^nw? 
fore each guest. 

3. Soup-plates removed. 

4. Plate with fish placed before each guest. 

In serving each course, the waitress removes the empty 
plate of the previous course with the left hand, and places 
the plate for the succeeding course with the right hand. 

The sauce, if not served with the fish, is passed; also the 
vegetable, if there is one. 

5. Fish-plate removed, and the relevS served, sauce and 
vegetable being passed. 

6. Cheese course, or half-frozen ice served in glasses. 

7. Roast or broiled game or poultry, with dressed green 
salad. If one wishes a vegetable, that may be served here 
also, or the vegetable may follow in a course by itself. 

8. Brush the table, and serve the dessert. 

9. Serve the coffee. Some hostesses have the coffee 
served in the drawing-room. 



158 HOME EGONOMIGS 

If fruit is served, there must be fruit-knives and -napkins. 
Fmit- Many hostesses do not have finger-bowls brought 
^Jj^[j^ to the table unless fruit has been served. 
alM finger- No food that will leave a pronounced odor on 
^^^ the hands, as celery, for example, should be served 
wMoh^ at a ceremonious dinner. Bread should be sup- 
leave odor plied to the guests from the beginning of the 
^SSdfc* dinner to the dessert. 
Bread The custom of serving cheese with crisp bread, 
■erved like pulled bread, for example, or crackers, as a 
out tte' '*s* course is very much in favor with some 
cUnner. dinner-givers. The crackers or bread should be 
crisp and fresh and the cheese the best of its kind. 



SOME POINTS ON TABLE ETIQUETTE 

The proper attitude at the table is an erect one; there 
should be no leaning against the back of the chair; neither 
should one rest one's arms on the table nor crowd 
table! ** ^^ incommode one's neighbor. 

Avoid making a noise in masticating your food 
or in drinking. 

When a dish is handed around, serve yourself promptly 
and with a care not to mar the appearance of the food. 

When asked your preference as to the portion of the 
joint, answer at once, and, if you have one, express your 
j^j^^^^ preference. There is nothing more annoying to 
aneeof food a carver than to have to wait while some one de- 
■erved! liberates as to his choice in this matter. When- 
ever possible, one should be content with what 
has been served him. At the family table it is perfectly 
proper to ask that too rare or too well done a piece of meat 
be changed for one better done or more rare, as the case 
may be, and it is the duty of whoever serves the food to as- 
certain the tastes of each individual, and, as far as he is able, 
to satisfy them. On the other hand, each member of the 



TABLE SERVICE 159 

family should cultivate a habit of consideration and appre- 
ciation, and not be too capricious or exacting. There are 
people who invariably come to the table in a crit- ^^^^ ^^ 
ical and fault-finding mood, often refusing the offiinlt- 
food at the home table that they compliment at ^^jSS? ** 
the table of a friend or order at a hotel or res- 
taurant. These thoughtless fault-finders can never estimate 
the amount of mental discomfort they inflict upon those that 
are dearest to them, or the burden of extra labor they put 
upon the shoulders of mother, wife, or maid. 

When a plate is sent back for a second portion, care 
should be taken to place the knife and fork, or spoon, 
straight on the plate, and a little to one side, so p^^tj^^nof 
that there may be no danger of their slipping knife and 
off, and a part of the plate shall be ready to re- *^jj^ 
ceive the food. If, as is the case in some houses, 
there is a knife-rest beside each plate, let the tips of the 
knife and fork rest on this, and send the free plate to the 
server. 

One should be careful not to eat so rapidly jj^^ 
that the food may not be properly masticated, or ihonid be 
that one will have finished while the others at the "J*^ 
table are still eating. 

If it is necessary to ask for anything during a meal, one 
should take the opportunity of speaking quietly to the 
waitress when she is near, or wait until it is pos- ^^ 
sible to catch her eye. speaking 

When a meal is announced, go to the table towaitrewi. 
promptly. It is annoying to the housekeeper and 
cook to have the meals delayed. It often happens n^L 
that a few minutes' waiting may spoil some dish, ob^^ing 
and, in any case, it causes a waste of precious Jo^J^iSi! 
time to the housekeeper and other members of 
the family. Some thoughtless people seem to think that it 
matters less that the whole family is kept waiting five 
minutes or more than that they should complete the work 



160 HOME EOONOMIGS 

which they happen to have in hand. There are many jars 
and breaks in the household machinery from this cause 
alone. 

In many households where there is a regular waitress 
there is a rule sometimes that nothing shall be handed by 
members of the family; while in other homes, even 
^"^JJ; where there is plenty of service, each member of 
holdexar- the family has a watchful care of the needs of the 
^^Jjj^j other persons at the table. In the second case 
eaxe at the atmosphere is more sociable and friendly, and in 
^J*J*2JJ* family life this care for the wants and comfort of 
etomoit. others tends to develop some of the most desira- 
ble traits of character, courtesy, and unselfishness. 
A certain amount of ceremony should always be observed, 
even at the simplest family meal; but when this is carried 
too far it crushes sociability and cheerfulness. 
Porm of ^^ offering to serve any one at the table use 
oflbiing one of these forms: ''May I help you," ''May I 
■«^J^** offer [or "send*'] you,*' "Let me give you," etc. 
"Will you have," is a form that should be used 
only by the waitress. 

The mistress of the house usually pours the tea and 

coffee. She should always ask if her guests take sugar and 

cream. To the minds of many people the flavor 

^t(»o? ^^ *^® ^^ ^^ coffee is much improved if the hot 
oofEiM. beverage is poured on the cream and sugar. The 
hostess must be careful to inquire just how much 
sugar and cream the guest takes, and he should be equally 
careful to state the amount. The sugar and cream should 
Upon little ^® handed with the beverage, so that each one may 
matten add more, if he desires. These little matters are 
wS^m, ^^^^^^^f because upon them depends the per- 
fection of his cup of tea or coffee, a considera- 
tion by no means unimportant to the habitual tea- or coffee- 
drinker. 



TABLE SERVICE 161 

The spoon should never be left in the cup. The knife 
and fork should be placed straight on the plate 

after using, and side by side. Toothpicks, like Sao^^ 

tooth-brushes, should be used only in the privacy leaveknife, 

of one's room. It is extremely important that '"'j^^* 

children should be well trained in all these little Where k 

points, since the habits of youth are apt to follow *?^^*2 

one through life. nied. 



THE DUTIES OP THE WAITRESS 

The personal appearance of the waitress requires special 
attention. She should not be too large or too old. She 
should be trim in her appearance, quiet in manner, 
and light of foot. Her dress should always be appear- 
clean and well fitting, and her apron, collar, and aaoe and 

cuflfs spotless. ^wlita««L* 

Fashion at present decrees that the waitress 
should wear a black dress, white collar and cuffs, a white 
apron, and a small white .cap. In many well-regulated 
households, however, the waitress wears a light print dress, 
a fashion which must always commend itself, because it 
means freshness and cleanliness. The waitress should wear 
boots with soft soles, or slippers, that she may move about 
the dining-room noiselessly. 

She should understand her duties so well, and Theatten- 
be so attentive to the wants of the family, that ^^J^ 
it should not be necessary to ask for anything 
during a meal, unless a special taste that could not ordin- 
arily have been anticipated is to be gratified. 

During a ceremonious dinner or luncheon it is particularly 
important that all the service should be rendered without a 
word being exchanged between mistress and maid. This 
can be accomplished only by seeing that the maid has a clear 

understanding of all that is required, and that she is watch- 
11 



162 HOME ECONOMICS 

ful of each guest. If she is in the daily habit of discharg- 
ing these duties carefully, she will be in proper training for 
the more formal occasions. It takes constant practice to 
arrive at perfection. 

The regular duties of the waitress, as they re- 
^^^*l late to the dining-room and its accessories, are 
waitreM. quite varied. 

The waitress sharpens the carving-knives. 

When a meal is ready she announces it. The method of 

making this announcement varies with the habits of the 

family and the style of living. If it is the custom 

oing meals. ^^ *^® family to gather in the living-room or 

drawing-room before each meal, the waitress 

comes to the door, and, addressing the mistress of the house, 

says, "Dinner" (or whatever the meal may be) "is served." 

When the family is large and scattered at meal-times, and 

the service is limited, the meal is announced by means of a 

bell or gong. In this case the bell or gong should be as 

musical as possible. 

The other duties of the waitress may be enumerated as 
follows: 

1. Before breakfast she should air and dust the dining- 
room, and if there is an open fire there she should make 

that, brushing and washing the hearth, 
tioxui^ 2. She should then place the plates and serving- 
breakfast, dishes to warm. 

3. Set the table. 
4. Prepare the butter, cut the bread, draw the cold water, 
and place the breakfast on the table. If, as is the case in 
most families, she is not required after the coffee and sub- 
stantial part of the meal have been served, she may leave 
the dining-room and attend to other duties. 

If but two maids are kept, the waitress then goes up-stairs 
and puts the beds and sleeping-rooms to air. After this her 
own breakfast will be ready. 



TABLE SERVICE 163 

5. When the family meal is finished the table should be 
cleared in this manner: Have a tray on which to gather all 
the silver and knives, care being taken to keep the py^para- 
silver separate from the steel knives. In the pan- tion for 
try put the knives in a pitcher of water, —the water ^?J"* 
must not reach the handles,— and the silver in a 

similar pitcher of water. There are pitchers that come in 
tin for this purpose. Place all the small articles on the tray, 
carry them into the pantry, and sort the dishes, rinsing them 
off under the cold-water faucet. Pile them, each with its 
own kind, on one part of the table. Fill empty milk and 
cream pitchers with cold water, and set them aside to soak. 

6. Return to the dining-room and brush the gettiwf 
crumbs from the table-cloth. Remove the cloth dining^ 
and fold it, being careful to lay the folds in the ^^ ^ 
old creases. Do this as carefully as possible, so as 

not to wrinkle the cloth. Put away the table-cloth and nap- 
kins. Dust and air the dining-room. 

7. Go back to the pantry and wash the dishes Washing 
as directed under " Care of Tableware." As soon *S?|^J|j"* 
as the milk and cream pitchers are washed, fill 

them with boiling water, and let them stand until all the 
work in the pantry is finished. 

8. Wipe the pantry shelves, and examine the receptacles 
in which bread, cake, sugar, etc., are kept. See that they 
are clean and that the food is in good condition. 

Make a list of articles that are needed. Wash the ®®?^^® 

p&ntry in 

tables, sink, dish-pans, towels, and dish-cloth, and order, 
hang the towels and dish-cloth out to dry. Sweep 
the pantry floor, and if there are any soiled places on it, wipe 
them with a cloth wrung out of hot water, wiping with a 
dry cloth. 

9. The noonday meal, whether it is luncheon or The noon- 
dinner, will require warm dishes. The dishes to be ^^ ^^^ 
warmed should be put in the heater at least half an hour before 



164 HOME ECX)NOMIGS 

serving the meal. The waitress should see that the dining- 
room is properly heated in winter, and that the shades are ar- 
ranged to make a pleasant light. The table should be set, the 
bread, butter, and water prepared, and the meal served on 
time. If there are to be salads, cheese, fruit, etc., for this 
meal, the waitress usually prepares them. She also has 
charge of the pickles, olives, sardines, potted meats, fruits, 
and similar dainties. 

10. Dinner, as a rule, comes in the evening, and requires 

special care on the part of the cook and waitress. Warm 

dishes for the hot food and cold dishes for the 

^toA^Sr ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^® invariably needed for this meal. It 
platai. is of the greatest importance that the waitress 
should understand the necessity of serving hot 
food on well-warmed plates, and cold food on absolutely 
cold plates. A cold plate will quickly absorb the heat 
from soup, sauce, meat, or fish, while a warm plate, by im- 
parting its own heat, will ruin a food that should be served 
cold. At the same time, care must be taken to avoid going 
to the extreme of having the plates so hot that they are 
difficult to handle or will mar the surface of the table. 

The bread for dinner is cut thick. If the loaf is a square 

one, the slices are divided into two or four parts, according 

to the size of the loaf. Slices from the round 

jj^^gp^ French loaf are not subdivided. Bread for the 

other meals should be cut in thin slices. 
Since the duties of the waitress vary with the habits and cir- 
cumstances of the family, I have attempted to give only such 
duties, and the methods of performing them, as are 

vi^o?the ^ P^^* ^^ *^® ^^^^ ^^ ^ trained butler or waitress, 

waitress but which form part of the work that any general 

^"2d^? housemaid is often required to do. If the maid 

living. is thoroughly trained in the duties here outlined, 

it will be an easy matter for either mistress or 

maid to extend or reduce them. 



TABLE SERVICE 165 

The waitress is made responsible for the silver, glass, and 
china, and she is expected to keep them clean and intact. 
To do this she must have proper appliances. There 
must be a place for everything, and everything ^®j^^^ 
must be kept in its place. Ample closet-room nUefor 
should be provided, that there may be no need of ■*!▼»» 
crowding the china, etc., or of piling a great many china, 
delicate dishes one upon another. There should ' 
be tables in the pantry, so that when the dining-table is 
being cleared it will not be difficult to dispose of the dishes. 
The sink must be so broad and the water-faucets so high 
that there shall be no danger of striking the dishes against 
the projecting faucets. If the sink is narrow and the 
faucets low, there should be a large tray of galvanized iron, 
which should be placed on a table, to hold the dish-pan. 
This precaution will be found to lessen greatly the dan- 
ger of breakage. Having plenty of hot water, soap, and 
towels, and all other appliances, the waitress must do her 
part to protect the tableware, etc., committed to her charge. 
She should always observe the following rules: 

1. The water into which the glass or china is ^^^jj^^® 
put^rs^ must not be too hot. 

2. A few pieces only must be put in the pan at a time, 
and heavy pieces should never be placed on small or delicate 
ones. 

3. Each piece should be wiped with care, and pressure on 
fragile articles of glass or china should be avoided. 

4. Care should be taken that no sharp, hard substance, 
like a grain of sand, is on the table or dish-cloth, or in the 
dish-pan. 

5. Delicate glass and china must not be exposed to 
extremes of heat or cold; as, for instance, a hot substance 
should not be put in a cold dish, or a cold substance, like a 
frozen mixture, must not be put into a dish that has not 
been gradually chilled. 



166 HOME ECONOMICS 

A scrupulous observance of these little points will save a 
world of trouble and expense. 

PROTECTING THE TABLE PROM HOT DISHES 

Food that should be served hot requires warm plates and 
serving-dishes, that it may lose none of its heat while being 
served and eaten. The serving-dish should be a little warmer 
than the plates. 

As heat mars varnished and other polished surfaces, the 
table must be protected by some substance that will prevent 
it from being reached by heat. The thick covers 
^^^^ that are placed under the table-cloth are usually 
eoven. made of cotton, a material which is not a good 
non-conductor of heat. If, instead of this kind 
of cover, one of thick flannel is used, the chances of excessive 
heat passing through to the table would be greatly dimin- 
ished. I should advise a thick flannel cover for a handsomely 
polished table-top. 

Thick mats placed under platters and other hot dishes are 

a protection. Tiles are often used for this purpose, but 

they absorb the heat from the dish and transmit 

tues!*^ it to the table. If, however, the tiles are set on 

little feet, or are in a frame which raises them 

from the table, they are a sufficient protection. Tiles are not 

satisfactory supports for a platter on which the joint, or any 

other piece that is to be carved, rests, as the dish is apt to slip 

about on the glazed surface. A thin pad of flannel may be 

covered with a linen slip and placed under the carving-cloth. 

For coffee-pots, tea-pots, hot water, etc., there should be 

a broad tile or a slightly raised wire frame. On this place 

a thin flannel pad covered with a linen slip. The 

fOTtoa^imd ^^^^®^ ^^ necessary between the tile or wire frame, 

oolbe-potB. as it conserves the heat in the vessel set upon it. 

If, for example, the tea- or coffee-pot is placed 

directly on the cold tile, it parts with its heat rapidly, so that 



TABLE SERVICE 167 

in protecting the polish of one's table one must not lose sight 
of the fact that a beautifully polished surface is a costly 
luxury indeed if, for the sake of preserving it, one's food 
and drink may never be kept at a proper temperature. But 
with the pads of non-conducting material, and with tiles or 
some other supports that are raised sufficiently to allow a 
current of air to pass between them and the table, food may 
be kept hot and the polish of the table preserved at the 
same time. 



CHAPTER IX 

MARKETING 

The muscular system. Some characteristics of the muscular flesh of ani- 
mals. The minor parts of the animal. Game and poultry. Care and 
purchase of general supplies. 

This subject is so comprehensive that a whole volume 
would hardly cover it; therefore in one short chapter there 
must be ma.iy things that are not even touched 
^apterT ^^P^^- The housekeeper needs clear, concise ex- 
planations of the best methods of identifying the 
materials that enter into the daily menu, and this has been 
attempted in this chapter. 

In most households the item of butchers' meat is often 
much heavier than it need be, because of ignorance on the 
part of the housekeeper. Every woman whose place is at 
the head of a house should know, at least, where the differ- 
ent cuts come from, both tender and tough, what proportion 
of bone there is to meat, why the quality varies in different 
sections of the animal, what treatment the different cuts 
should receive, etc. Once having learned this, the house- 
keeper will order intelligently and get most satisfactory results. 
How to ao. ^* ^^ ^^* possible to learn from books all that 

quire a one should know on this subject, but with study 
^mui^ at home, and frequent visits to the market, any 

ing. woman may in time master this important branch 

168 



MARKETING 169 

of household economy. The intelligent butcher is always 
glad to aid his customers in acquiring this knowledge, for it 
is to his advantage as well as to theirs. The intelligent and 
just customer knows what she wants, and appreciates good 
service, while the woman who has no knowledge of the sub- 
ject is more difficult to serve. 

One should not attempt to learn too much at 
once; confusion of ideas and discouragement will ^tt^p^ 
be the result of such a course. If the beginner ing to 
will carry out the following program she will have low^to? 
a comprehensive knowledge of the subject at the once, 
end of six months. 

1. Study the anatomy of the animal so as to know how to 
locate all the bones. (See Fig. 10.) 

2. Study the muscular system, that the position 

of the muscles and tendons may be clear in the ^'^^^^ 
mind. This will help to an understanding of how of study, 
the meat should be cut so that the slices shall be 
across the grain. (See Fig. 14.) 

3. Study the change of position of bones and muscles in 
the hind quarter, as shown in Figs. 15 and 16. 

4. Become familiar with the interior of a side of beef 
(Fig. 17), noting the position of the spine, ribs, sternum, 
kidney, suet, and tenderloin. 

5. Study the outline of the outside of the side of beef 
(Fig. 18), the position of each cut, and its relation to the 
bones of the skeleton. Look at Fig. 14, and from that 
locate in each cut the direction in which the muscles run. 

One should become familiar with the texture ^^j^^ ^^^ 

and color while studying the bones and muscles of and'tort-* 

the animal. There are certain things that can be ?^l«a™ed 

learned only by personal observation. For exam- tion and 

pie, one judges of the freshness of fish by the col- e^on- 



ence. 



or, texture, and odor; but an inexperienced person 

finds it difficult to distinguish between a fresh and a stale 



170 HOME ECONOMICS 

odor, and who can describe it? So it is in countless little 
points in which observation and experience are the best 
teachers, therefore make frequent visits to the market. 

The or '^^^ ^^ ^^ ^^^^ taken to illustrate the anat- 

lued to il- omy and muscular system of the animal, but all 

^^^^ the other animals from which we get butchers' 

lyiteiii and nieat are constructed on the same plan. The 

anatomy smaller animals are not divided into so many 

mala from P^'i'ts, and the immature animals, like veal and 

which we lamb, have less fat and hard bone, but more car- 

Stf meat ^il^igej therefore some portions that are tough in 

the mature animal are tender in the immature 

animal. Hence certain joints that, when taken from beef 

or mutton, require cooking slowly for a long time to make 

them tender, may, when taken from lamb or veal, be cooked 

by the quicker methods, such as roasting or broiling. Take, 

for example, the neck or breast of any animal. To save 

confusion by a multiplicity of diagrams, a side of mutton 

has been taken to illustrate the methods of cutting the 

smaller animals. (See Fig. 24.) 

The quality of meat depends upon many things— the age, 
breed, etc., of the animal, the amount of exercise, the kind 
of food, the mode of dressing, and the time given to ripening. 

Beef.— The ox, steer, heifer, and cow yield the meat known 

as beef. These animals are dressed at the source of supply, 

or are sent alive to the local markets, in well-ven- 

known as dilated and watered cars, where they are dressed. 

Cidoago- In the last fifteen or twenty years there have been 

^^ great changes in the manner of supplying the 
markets with beef. Previous to that time it was 
nearly all dressed in the locality in which it was sold. This 
meant for the cattle long, exhaustive jourheys in crowded 
cars. Now the greater part of the beef is dressed near the 
source which supplies the cattle, and it goes by the name of 
Chicago-dressed beef. 



MARKETING 171 

At the outset this method of supplying the market met 
with opposition. Naturally, while in an experimental stage 
many mistakes were made. The beef was often packed in 
the refrigerators before all the animal heat had passed oif, 
and, as a consequence, when it reached the Eastern market 
it had acquired a peculiar and disagreeable taste. Some- 
times other preservatives than cold were employed. All 
this has been changed, and now one cannot ask for anything 
better than a joint from a prime Chicago-dressed animal. 

At these large establishments they have the best appli- 
ances for doing the work in the quickest, most painless and 
sanitary manner. They also have methods for utilizing the 
tougher and less sought after portions of the animal, send- 
ing East the most marketable portions. This gives a differ- 
ent-looking side from that of the home-dressed beef, there 
being less flank and often no neck; but in the final cutting 
into joints there is practically no difference from the home- 
dressed. 

The quality of beef, as of all kinds of meat, depends upon 
the age of the animal and how fed. Butchers consider that 
the age between four and eight years gives the 
best beef. In former years none but "stall-fed beefde^ 
beef "— i. e., an animal that was kept for months pendsupon 
in the bam and fed largely on grain— was consid- *|niiiiai* 
ered prime. This is practically true now. The and how it 
flesh is made rapidly, and is shorter grained and ^^jj^^ 
more tender than the grass-fed animal; yet there 
can be no doubt but that a combination of the two methods 
will give a healthier meat, for while the exercise in the open 
air tends to toughen the muscles, it also makes them more 
healthy and of a finer flavor. It is true of all animals that 
little exercise and generous feeding with grain produce 
tender flesh, which grows plump in cooking. 

Beef should hang until well ripened— not less than three 
weeks, longer when possible. 



172 HOME ECONOMICS 

Good beef will be firm, fine-grained, the color when first 

cut a purplish red, but on exposure to the air for a few 

minutes becoming a bright red. If the beef is 

^"^J^ well ripened it will have a moist, juicy appearance. 

beet When first killed, the tiny globules of moisture 
are absent on the fresh-cut surface. The fat 
should be a light straw-color; the kidney suet should be 
white, firm, dry, and crumbly. In a prime animal there is a 
generous layer of fat on the back, shoulders, and sides, and 
fine particles of fat distributed through the muscles; the 
bones will be small in proportion to the meat. 

The fat of poor beef is a dark yellow, the suet oily, tough, 
and fibrous. The lean is coarse, open-grained and flabby, 

and often quite dark. 

dieationBof The beef being the largest animal that the 

poor beef, butcher handles, it is cut into more joints than is 

How the the carcass of any other animal. It is first split 

^*P^_"' the length of the backbone (spine), thus dividing 

the carcass mto two parts. These are divided 

into hind quarters and fore quarters— the loin, rump, round, 

leg, and flank going on the hind quarter, and ribs, shoulder, 

brisket, cross-ribs, etc., going on the fore quarter; these 

quarters are again subdivided. 

The division into quarters is practically the same all over 
the country, but the subdivision varies in different sections. 
The New York method is followed nearly all over the coun- 
try, except in some parts of New England and Pennsylvania. 
When once the anatomy of the animal and the muscular 
system is understood, a knowledge of the various cuts and 
their uses may be acquired readily. 

THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 

The skeleton is covered with a thick layer of muscular 
fibers; this is known as lean beef. These muscles are the 



MARKETING 173 

active organs of movement. There is not a movement of 
the body, no matter how slight, that does not require the 
aid of one or more sets of muscles. The more 
active they are, the more freely the blood flows J^^lj^^ 
through them, and, as a consequence, they are mnsde. 
healthier than when not exercised. But with 
exercise they become firmer and harder. This is seen, 
for example, in the beef. The legs, sides, shoulders, and 
neck are exercised more than the back and the tender- 
loin, and are therefore tougher, but also more highly fla- 
vored and more nutritious, than the tender and less-exer- 
cised parts. 

A knowledge of the structure of the muscular fibers will 
be valuable in buying, carving, and cooking meats. 

These muscles are composed of bundles of hundreds of 
slender threads, called fibrils, held together by connective 
tissue. These little bundles of fibrils are massed ^^ ^^^ 
together to form ultimate fibers. The ultimate of a know- 
fibers are sheathed by connective tissue. Bundles ^i®^??' 

^ the stmo* 

of ultimate fiber are, m their turn, massed to- tnreof 

gether and sheathed in connective tissue to form "^'JJJJ^ 
fasciculi. The fasciculi are bound together to 
form what is known as lean meat or muscular fiber. It will be 
seen from the foregoing that in lean meat there are three 
sets of bundles, each set sheathed in a thin membranous 
substance called connective tissue. 

When lean meat is cooked a long time at the proper tem- 
perature this connective tissue is gelatinized and holds the 
lean fibers together in a solid, tender, juicy mass. 
If, on the contrary, the meat is cooked at too 'JSj^^*! 
high a temperature, the connective tissue will be degrees of 
destroyed, and the pieces of meat will separate ^®** ^ 
into long, tough, thread-like fibers. In the °^flber.*' 
chapter on cooking albuminous substances the 
principles underlying the cooking of lean meats are fully 



MARKETING 176 

treated. No woman can afford to be ignorant on a sub- 
ject on which depends so much economy or waste. 

Below are cuts of muscular fiber. 
Fig. 11 shows the arrangement in bun- 
dles; Fig. 12, the fiber partially separated 
into fibrils; Pig. 13, the fiber cut across 
the grain. 

From these three examples one can see 
how important it is that the muscles 
should be cut across the grain instead of 
the length of the fiber, if one would have 
tender meat. 

We will begin with the skeleton of an 
ox. In Fig, 10 (a}, a\ a', a', a\ a", a?) are rb.h. me n. 
the vertebrse, which extend from the 
head to the end of the tail. Examine the bones of the spine 
in each section, that you may be able to recognize them in 
the cuts of meat that come from these parts, 
always remembering, of course, that each bone is ^S^J?" 
split into two parts, and that you find but one Kg. 10. 
half of it in the joint of meat. (The split side is 
shown in Fig. 17.) a^ to a^ is that part of the spine belong- 
ing to the neck. Beginning at a^ and going back to a? are 
found the joints to which are attached 
the six chuck ribs. The projections on 
these joints are partially hidden by the 
shoulder-blade, but they are quite long. 
Beginning at the point a' and going back 
r^. ij. to (I* are the joints to which the seven prime 

ribs are attached. From a* to a^ are the 
joints of the loin. The tenderloin begins in a small point 
under the first rib, and it increases in thickness as it runs 
back. It finally terminates in an obtuse point at the hip- 
bone. The tenderloin is covered with a thick bed of suet. 
The kidneys are embedded in this at the end near the ribs. 



176 HOME ECONOMICS 

(See Pig. 17.) It is from this section that the sirloin and 
porterhouse roasts or steaks are cut. 

The point between a^ and a^ in the New York method of 

cutting is left on the sirloin, while in Boston and Philadelphia 

it is left on the rump. In New York this cut is 

KewTork Called the thick or hip sirloin, the hip-bone being 

method of cut at the line a® 6. This portion is quite as often 

di^ln^m ^^^ ^^^ steaks as roasts, the steak taking the 

Boston and name of the cut portion of the hip-bone, as hip- 

^^a^" ^^^® steak, flat-bone steak, and round-bone steak. 

(See Figs. 20, 21, 22.) 

You will observe the position of the thigh-bone ii\ its rela- 
tion to the hip-bone; k indicates the socket in the hip-bone, 
and I the ball in the thigh-bone. This is called the whirl- 
Wh it is ^^^® ^y butchers, because when the hind quarter 
oaUed the of the animal is hung by the leg, as it always is, 

^^^' this bone is whirled round, bringing the leg at an 
angle of about thirty degrees with the backbone, 
thus changing the position of the bones and muscles of the 
leg. (Figs. 15 and 16 show this change.) Seeing this change 
in the skeleton and muscles, it will be easy to understand 
how and why the hind quarter is cut in a certain manner 
when we come to the diagram illustrating methods of cut- 
ting beef. (Fig. 18.) If the carver will study Figs. 15 and 16, 
he will learn the position of the bones and direction of the 
muscles in the leg or hind quarter of mutton, lamb, veal, 
venison, etc., and will then know how to carve so as to cut 
across the grain of the muscular fibers. 

The triangular section at a® 6, a^ 6, which takes in the 
greater part of the hip-bone, a small piece of the thigh-bone, 
and a portion of the backbone, is called the aitchbone in 
some, sections. In New York it is called the rump piece, 
and is usually divided into two parts, one taking in the back- 
bone and the other the hip-bone. These cuts are generally 
used for corned beef. 



178 HOME ECONOMICS 

The point at a} is where the aitchbone is divided into two 
parts. The thigh-bone below the straight line belongs to 
the round. 

Observe the formation of the shoulder-blade at c and d. 
The upper part (c) is thick cartilage, which touches the 
seventh rib; therefore it does not lessen the value of this 
joint; but beginning with the eighth rib there is both bone 
and cartilage. Here is where the chuck ribs begin. 

A cut that used to be very popular for a cheap roast, 
steaks, pot-roast, stewing, etc., was the "cross-rib piece," 
known also as "shoulder clod," "bowler piece." It is still 
cut by many butchers. Formerly it always contained the 
rib-bones, but it is now more usually cut without the bones, 
e, e, e, c, e, indicate the position of this cut; /and g are the 
bones included in a shoulder of beef; A, the sternum, is the 
bone in the thick end of the brisket. 

Fig. 14 shows a beef with the skin and fat removed, 
leaving bare the muscular covering of the skeleton. This 
should be studied carefully by the marketer and the carver. 

This illustration can be studied for the position and direc- 
tion of the muscles in veal, mutton, lamb, and all animals of 
this kind. It will be observed that the arrange- 
miuoies.^ ment of the muscles in the fore quarter is much 
more complicated than in the hind quarter. 
There are more bones to move in this part; hence the 
greater number of sets of muscles, and the necessity for 
their going in many directions. Each cluster of muscles 
is finished at the ends with a smooth, white, tough sub- 
stance, the tendons, by which they are attached to the 
bones. The tendons become gelatinous on being subjected to 
long, slow cooking. They are what make the drumsticks of 
roast poultry and the knuckle of mutton or lamb, when 
properly cooked, such delicious, succulent morsels, and 
when cooked at too high a temperature, such hard, unsav- 
ory food. 



study this cut carefully, observing the du-ection in which 
each Bet of muscles run. Test your knowledge of the skele- 
ton by trying to locate the different bones. 

Locate the different cuts by the description of Fig. 14. 

The cuts of beef may be divided into three qualities; 

F^rst quoMty, the portions suitable for roasting or broiling. 
These are taken from the tenderest part of the animal, and 
bring the highest price. 

From the hind quarter are taken the first, second, and 
third cuts of sirloin, often called porterhouse (see Figs. 10, 




14, 17, 18, a* to aP); or this section is cut up into steaks, 
which are variously called sirloin or porterhouse steaks. 
When there is a large piece of tenderloin in the porHoni 
steak, it is called a large porterhouse; and when taktnfrom 
the steak is cut from the small end of the loin, *^l!?f* 
where there is only a very little tenderloin, it is 
called short steak, or Delmonico steak. (See Fig. 23.) 
Hip or thick sirloin, known in Boston and Philadelphia as 
rump (see Figs. 10, 14, 18, a^ to a"), is cut for roasts and 
steaks. 



180 HOME ECONOMICS 

As cut in New York, and wherever the New York method 
is followed, these roasts and steaks contain both tender and 
tough portions. This is particularly true in the case of the 
steaks, some butchers cutting the whole length, from the 
backbone to the end of the thigh-bone. (See Fig. 18, a® 
and b.) 

Between a? and a\ Pig. 18, are the seven prime ribs, the 

first three called the first cut of the ribs; but for a small 

The laxver ^^™'y ^^^ make a better-sized roast. One should 

the roast never attempt to roast a thinner piece than this, 

^M^t °^ matter how small the family. In beef the 

larger the roast, the more satisfactory the result. 

Second quality. The pieces included in this grade are 
often used for roasting and broiling, also for braizing, stew- 
ing, pot-roasts, etc. 

The best part of the top of the round (^, g, Fig. 17) is often 
used for steaks, roasts, pot-pie, boiled, braized, or alamode 
beef. From a prime animal this is a most satisfactory piece. 
There is little, if any, bone (some butchers remove the thigh- 
bone, while others leave it in the round), and only a desirable 
quantity of fat. 

The eighth and ninth ribs, first cut of the chuck, make a 
fair roast; the shoulder-blade should be removed and the 
piece be firmly skewered. The tenth and eleventh ribs are 
often boned, and sold as rib or chuck steaks, or are rolled, 
and sold as rolled ribs for roasting, braizing, or pot-roasts. 
Even the twelfth and thirteenth ribs are treated in this 
manner in some markets. Sometimes these last two ribs 
and part of the neck are used for Hamburg steaks. 

The tougher ribs (ten, eleven, twelve, and thirteen) may ' 
be used for braizing or pot-roasts. 

The cross-rib piece makes a good economical roast or 
steaks. By consulting Figs. 14 and 18 it will be seen that 
the muscles of this piece all run in one general direction. 
It is an economical cut, being solid meat. 



TTiird quality. The cuts 
belonging to this class are 
all much tougher than the 
foregoing, and require 
long, slow cooking. The 
rump piece (Fig. 14, a" to 
a*) is generally corned 
where the New York 
method of cutting is em- 
ployed. It is cut in two 
parts, horizontal with the 
backbone, thus taking in 
the thick part of the hip- 
bone in one piece, and the 
backbone in the other 
piece; the latter piece is 
the better of the two. By 
the Boston and Philadel- 
phia methods of cutting, 
a portion of this cut goes 
on the part known as the 
back of the rump, and 
is used for roasts and 
steaks. 

The fiank and kg are 
used for stewing, braiz- 
ing, soups, etc. The flank 
has no bone; the muscles 
are coarse, loose, and 
tough; but this piece of 
meat is very juicy and has 
a fine flavor. It is excel- 
lent for beef-tea; rolled ^^ _ si*eofBMf_in. 
and stewed or braized, it ^ ^:l'a°,\«Sl^,.^hs'i^'<!t^^i^ 
makes a good dish toa^^c^^',^QI&^%„''iiS"^ii 



182 



HOME ECONOMICS 



serve hot or cold. 
This piece is some- 
times corned, which 
is a great pity, for 
the lean meat is not 
well protected by 
fat or bone, and 
consequently all the 
fine juicesare drawn 
out into the brine. 

Inside the ribs 
there is a thin piece 
of muscle called the 
skirt. It is some- 
times used for 
steaks and some- 
times for rolling 
and stewing. 

ThQ plate piece or 
rattle-ran takes in 
the lower part of 
the ribs, and is 
nearly always used 
for coming. It is 
especially good for 
this purpose, be- 
cause the lean meat 
is well protected 
with fat. Many 
people, however, ob- 
ject to it on account 
of the bones. When 

Fig. i& Side ofBeef— New York Method of Cutting. tWs pleCO Of meat 

a, neck ; oS to oS, six chuck ribs ; oitoaA, seven prime ribs ; a4 to . . ■. . 

oB, porterhouse roasts or steaks ; aS to aS, thick or hip sirloin ; «8 to IS prOperlV COOKeCl 
OT, tail end of rump ; a7 to a», top of rump ; 08 to «9, round ; aio, leg • , . 

*. top of sirioin; f, flank; rf, plate piece; *, navel ;/*>; brisket; ^, f hft honeS arodraWn 
shoulder; A. cross-nb; i, shin. w**v/ ^-vm.m.'^k, ««». w..a •• «t u 




MARKETING 183 

out and the hot meat placed under weights. When cold 
it cuts as smoothly as a piece of cheese, each slice consisting 
of alternate layers of fat and lean. When corned beef is 
to be served hot, the brisket or rump is a better piece than 
the plate piece. 

The navel piece is cut from the bottom of the ribs, and has 
only a small portion of bone at one end. This is used for 
corning, stewing, and for soups. 

The brisket takes in the ends of the last six ribs and the 
sternum. There is a difference of opinion as to choice in 
the thick end or the thin end of the brisket. The thick end 
is the part in front of the shoulder. 

The shoulder is that part which is included in the bones 
fy 9y Fig. 10. It is separated from the ribs and sternum. 

By examining Fig. 14 it will be seen that the muscles in 
this cut do not run in one general direction, and that there 
must be many tendons in it; therefore it should be cooked 
slowly and for a long time. This cut is good for pot-roast, 
stewing, braizing, Hamburg steaks, etc. 

The leg and shin of beef are full of tendons, and are more 
suitable for soups than for anything else. The long, slow 
cooking in water dissolves the gelatin, which gives a con- 
sistency and flavor to the soup. 
The various kinds of steak cut from beef are: 
Short or Delmonico steak. 
Porterhouse, large and small. 

C Hip-bone steak. 
Sirloin j Flat-bone steak. 

' Round-bone steakc 
Round steak. 
Rib steak. 
Entre-cSte steak. 
Cross-rib steak. 
Shoulder steak. 
Hamburg steak. 



HOUE ECONOmCS 




As has been stated, the New York sirloin conies from that 
part of the animal which includes the fore part of the hip- 
bone. In my lectures on marketing I have found 
jS[ZJ^, that the division of hip-bone, flat-bone, and round- 
uecnt bone steakB was rather difficult for the average 
housekeeper to understand. To make this per- 
fectly clear I have had a drawing made of the hip-bone, show- 
ing the way this bone is cut in each group of steaks (Fig. 19). 
When these steaks are cut long, i. e., 
down the length of the thigh-bone, the 
lower part takes a portion of the " top 
of the sirloin," although why that piece 
should be called top when it is the bot- 
tom, or sirloin when it is a part of the 
round, is incomprehensible. 

Fig. 20 shows hip-fxme steak; Fig. 21, 
Jlat-bojte steak ; Fig. 22, round-bone steak. 
Compare the bones in these steaks with 
the divisions of that part of the hip-bone 
'il^^-bmct!i^n^^a'S''°, which enters into them, 
fca.'^l^i^^Mde'fer"* Fig, 23 shows akort or Ddtiwnieo 
steak. Examine Fig. 10 at a*, where the 
ribs and the porterhouse are divided, and you will see the rea- 
son for the name "short steak." It is not possible to cut a 
long piece of flank on this steak. In the cut given some of 
the flank has been re- 
moved. The name 
" Delmonico " is de- 
rived from the custom 
of this house of remov- 
ing the entire tender- 
loin from the whole p,,."^ Hip.t™„stc^ 
porterhouse cut, then 

serving the top as small steaks, the tenderloin being removed 
for large fillets or tenderloin steaks. 



UABEimNG 




The etUre^te steak (between the ribs) ia a prime rib 
roast cut into steaks. The ribs are removed, but the piece 
of backbone is left on. 
This steak is not much 
used in this country. 

The JUkt ifbe^ia' 
the tenderloin. When 
this is taken from a 
prime beef it brings a 
very high price, often 
a dollar a pound. A great many fillets are sent from the 
West, and they sell at a much lower price. They are usually 
taken from inferior animals that have been slaughtered for 
canning, making beef ex- 
tracts, soups, etc. This 
piece of meat is bo pro- 
tected in the body of the 
animal that it has but 
little exercise; therefore 
it is tender, but without 
Fig. a Roudd-bont stuiL much flavor or nutrition. 

The muscles on the out- 
side of the backbone (Fig. IS, a* to a") are finer and firmer, 
of better flavor, and more nutritious. This part, ^he diibi- 
when taken from the bones in a solid piece, is often "aee be- 
uaed instead of the tenderloin. It is called in fgjJJflUM 
Prance the false fillet; it is much lower priced (uidth« 
than the real fillet. reaiiuiet. 

Corned Heat— At the best, corned lean meat can have 
but little of its natural 
salts and juices left in 
it, as the salt draws 
these out. The better 
the lean is protected by 
fat and bone, the juicier 




186 HOME ECONOMIGS 

and finer flavored will be the beef. Always aim to pur- 
chase a piece of corned beef that has a good layer of fat. 
c Ad beef Housekeepers often have a decided choice as to 
mart not the cut of corned beef that they will use. The 
wxjj '•P- thick end of the brisket, the rump piece, and the 
^' plate will all, if from a good animal, be satisfac- 
tory, provided they are cooked five hours, with the water just 
bubbling at one side of the kettle. Take the finest quality 
of corned beef in the world, and let it boil rapidly, and you 
will have a piece of meat that will break under the carving- 
knife into a bundle of hard, dry, uneatable threads. 

Veal.— The best veal is that fed wholly on milk; next comes 
that fed on milk and meal; the poorest is that which has been 
grass-fed. The best age for veal is when the calf 
feedi^. ^^ between six and ten weeks old. The flesh of a 
well-fed milk calf will be fine-grained, tender, and 
white, with just a suggestion of pink. The fat will be firm and 
white, and there will be a generous supply of it round the kid- 
neys and on the legs. Calves that are fed on part milk and part 
meal are nearly as good as the milk-fed, provided the feeding 
is done carefully. The grass-fed calf gives a very poor veal, 
lean, dry, and dark; still it is not unsanitary. The veal that 
comes from a calf that has been killed too soon— between 
two and four weeks—will be soft, flabby, and of a bluish 
tinge. There should be no sale for such meat, for it is both 
innutritions and unhealthful. 

Veal is not highly estimated in this country, and since 
creameries, condensing factories, and cheese factories are 
planted in every good grazing section of the country, the 
farmers find it more profitable to sell their milk, and destroy 
the calves when they are only a few days old. In France, 
where veal is valued highly, the greatest care is taken to 
have it in perfection. The prime veal is raised in the follow- 
ing manner. The calf is given all the milk it can take, first 
from the mother, and as it grows older it has the milk of a 



MARKETING 187 

second cow also. When the veal is to be particularly fine, 
eggs are fed to the calf the last two or three weeks of its 
fattening. They begin with one or two eggs, then increase 
the number from day to day until they use six or eight a day. 
The 'calf s mouth is opened, and the whole eggy shell and all, 
is dropped in; the closing of the mouth crushes the egg, and 
it is swallowed. When calves are fed partially on milk and 
partially on meAl, and the eggs are added, the veal is almost 
as fine as that of the milk-fed calves. Nowhere else in the 
world does one find such veal as is found in Prance, and 
no one complains of its disagreeing with them. All the 
French veal, however, is not thus carefully fattened; but 
where the best is so fine it is difiicult to sell a very inferior 
article. 

The calf is divided into leg, loin, breast, shoulder, neck, 
flank, head, and feet. The leg is the most valu- 
able part of the animal. It is cut into slices for ^jj^® 
cutlets, into one solid round piece for fillet; the divided, 
thick, tender part is cut into one large, well- 
shaped piece for fricandeau; a portion of the leg is some- 
times boned and roasted. There is no waste in these cuts. 

The lower part of the leg is very gelatinous, and is used 
for soups; it is called a knuckle of veal. 

Next in value to the leg is the loin; this cut includes what 
is known in beef as the porterhouse, sirloin, and rump, and 
is divided into roasts and chops. The neck comprises the 
thirteen ribs, which are roasted or used as cutlets. 

The shoulder is roasted or braized. The breast is roasted, 
stewed, broiled, etc. 

Mutton.— Good mutton, properly cooked, is one of the 
most nutritious and easily digested animal foods. Because 
of the indifferent quality and improper cooking of a great 
deal of this valuable food, many people in this country have 
a strong prejudice against it. But if the animal is properly 
fed and dressed, and the cook does her duty, no meat can be 



188 HOME EGONOMIGS 

more savory and appetizing than a roast, boiled, or broiled 
piece of mutton. 

Mutton is best when the sheep is between the age of three 

and five years. When the animal is between one and two 

years old it is variously termed mutton, lamb, or 

^"o fg ^ * yearling, as happens to be the local custom. 

rnnttm. Sheep that have been pastured on hilly land, 

where sweet herbs are found, have a peculiarly 

fine flavor. The bones should be small; the lean fine-grained, 

a rich red, and juicy; the fat firm and white. A lean animal 

does not produce good meat. There should be a 

^[^^ thick layer of fat on the back and the thick part 

thataugblj of the legs. The neck and shoulders are always 

'g*^^ fat. Mutton, like beef, should hang long enough 

to be thoroughly ripened. In winter this can be 

from three to six weeks; in summer, except in cold storage, 

it is not possible to keep it so long. 

The various cuts of mutton are the leg, loin, shoulder, 
neck, breast, flank. When the leg and loin make one joint 
it is called a haunch of mutton. When the two loins are 
left together the joint is called a saddle. 

Butchers cut long and short saddles. When 

^J^^ the rump and a small piece of the tail are left 

nrntton. on the loins it is called a long saddle. (See 

Fig. 29.) When only the loins constitute the 

piece, it is a short saddle. 

Sometimes the ribs and loin are left in one piece; it is then 
called the rack. As a rule the first eight ribs and the loin 
are cut into chops. When the thin bones of the rib chops 
are trimmed they are then called French chops. These 
chops are a delicate, appetizing dish, but expensive, as the 
proportion of lean meat to fat and bone is so small. The 
loin chops are what in the beef would be called porterhouse 
or sirloin steaks. They are more profitable to buy than the 
rib chops. The chuck ribs are sometimes cut into chops and 



MARKETING 



189 



the shoulder-blade 
removed. These 
chops have a good 
deal of meat on 
them, but it is too 
tough for broiling, 
except in the case 
of a very tender an- 
imal. 

The end of the 
neck near the head 
is in almostconstant 
motion in the living 
animal; therefore it 
is tough, but rich in 
flavor and nutrition. 
It is the most desir- 
able part for mak- 
ing broths, particu- 
larly for the sick. 

If the family is 
large, the leg is the 
most economical 
cut to buy; it costs 
more per pound 
than any other, 
part, but there is 
very little waste in 
it. The fore quar- 
ter, with the shoul- 
der-blade removed, 
makes a good cheap 
roast for a large Fig. 04. sideofMuttbn. 

^ a, b, c, leg of mutton as usually cut. a to d is the rump, and con« 

■Pamilv TVlO aVinill. tains the backbone and the hip-bone. When a longr saddle is cut 
xailllljr . X lie SllUUl f^^ ^^^ carcass, the dotted line from * to rf is followed, giving a 

Ai^f mn'lraa q />ViAaT\ s™*^' ^«K- '• '°>" ' ■^' "*»s ; ^, shoulder; A, A, A, breast. This in. 
Uci iildiikt;o a Ollcdp eludes the portion under the shoulder, i, scrajf end of the neck. 




190 HOME ECONOMICS 

small roast. The ribs and loin make good small roasts. The 
shoulder, breast, and best part of the neck are often used 
for roasts. They make excellent stews, pot-pies, etc. The 
fore quarter or the shoulder alone are sometimes corned. 
They are boiled and served like corned beef. 
For a large The leg is sometimes cut into thick slices, which 
family it is are sold as cutlets. If the family is of good size, 
^^biy tite*^ it is cheaper to buy a whole leg and have the num- 
whoie leg ber of cutlets you wish taken oflf. Keep the bal- 
^^^t ^^c® ^f ^^^ 1®S for a few days and use it for pot- 
ent as you pie, haricot, or Irish stew, or it may be roasted, if 
^"^' the piece is large enough. 
Lamb.— Until the young of the sheep is a year old it is 
called lamb. Spring lamb is from six weeks to seven or 
The best ®^^^* months old.' The best is between three and 
age for five months old. The very young lamb is neither 
^^ fine-flavored nor nutritious, and that which is older 
than five or six months has no longer the delicate 
flavor and texture which should characterize spring lamb. 
The lamb that is in the market in January, February, and 
March is valued for its rarity rather than quality, and is 
so expensive that it is found only on the tables of the 
wealthy. 

Young lamb is divided into hind quarter and fore quarter; 
as it grows older it is divided like mutton. The lean of the 
How the lai^t> should be pink, and the fat white and deli- 
lamb is cate. It spoils quickly, and should be hung only 
^^^^ a few days. 

Pork.— The flesh of the hog is variously esteemed. The 
very fat portions are always salted, while the lean, except 
the leg and shoulder, is generally sold fresh. The ribs and 
loin are the most desirable parts for roasting and chops. 
When the animal is very large and fat the thick layer of fat 
is taken from the ribs and loin and is used for salting; this 
leaves the loin and ribs thin and comparatively lean, a most 



MARKETING 191 

desirable condition. The shoulder is sometimes used fresh 
for roasting or boiling. It is not a desirable joint for this 
purpose, except in very large families. 

Pork, whether fresh or salted, should be above suspicion. 
In fresh meat the fat should be firm, clear, and white, and 
the lean pink. In the salted meat the fat is some- pj,j.]jm^|; 
times a delicate pink; this is an indication of be above 
sweet, healthy pork, but it is more usual to find J^^^^^'i' 
it without color. be tho> 

Diseased or measly pork has a dull appearance ^^^ 
and yellowish lumps through the fat and lean. 
Such pork should not be sold. If there were no purchasers 
it would not be found in the market. 

Great care should be exercised in purchasing all kinds of 
meat, but pork more than the meat of any other animal must 
be in a healthy condition, and under no circumstances should 
it be eaten unless thoroughly cooked. 

SOME CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MUSCULAR 
FLESH OF ANIMALS 

The flesh of the mature animal is improved by hanging for 
a long time in a low, dry temperature. It is more nutritious, 
more highly flavored, and more digestible than that of the 
immature animal, the flesh of which is watery and gelatinous, 
and spoils quickly. Consequently in making broths for the 
sick this fact should be kept in mind, and the well-exercised 
muscles of the mature animal should be used for this pur- 
pose. Nearly all the immature animals are in market 
through the spring and summer, and to some extent in the 
fall; but there is little of this kind of meat to be found on 
sale in the winter. - 

Bigor Mortis.— After the death of an animal the muscles 
become rigid. Sometimes this occurs very quickly, and, 
again, it may be hours before this state is developed. This 



192 HOME ECONOMICS . 

stiflfening of the muscles is supposed to be due to the sepa- 
ration and coagulation of the albuminoid substance in the 
fluid of the muscles. After a time (sometimes many days, 
and, again, in a few hours) the muscles relax, some change 
taking place in the albuminoid. 

Meat will not be tender and juicy if cooked while the 
muscles are rigid. It may be cooked before rigor mortis 

Meat wiU ^c^^^s> ^^* *^^^ ^^ ^^* of ten done, for two reasons: 
not be ten- first, it is rarely convenient to cook an animal as 
^*kS soon as killed; and, second, there is a more de- 
while cided animal flavor, which is not agreeable to the 
"^^^ majority of people. The drier and cooler (but al- 
ways above the freezing-point) meat can be kept 
while ripening, the better. Meat spoils rapidly in a humid 
atmosphere. 

Effect of Freezing.— In meat, as in all substances, the 
tendency of freezing is to separate the liquid from the more 
solid parts. Meat (cooked or uncooked) that has been frozen 
is never so juicy as it would be if it had not been frozen; after 
being in that state and then thawed, it should be cooked as 
soon as possible, as it will not keep well. 

THE MINOR PARTS OP THE ANIMAL 

There are portions of the animal which are variously 
esteemed. In the city markets one finds almost every part 
and organ of* the animal on sale. In some country places the 
butchers do not take the trouble to dress the head, feet, or 
any of the internal organs, except the liver; but in the hog 
the head and feet are generally dressed and sold. 

The feet of sheep, calves, and hogs are cleaned, boiled, and 
pickled, or they are used in stews, or fried in crumbs after 

Feet having been boiled. Calves' feet are also used in 

soups and jellies; these and pigs' feet are most 

highly prized. The feet of all animals are very gelatinous. 



MARKETING 193 

On the continent of Europe they use the feet of poultry in 
soups and ragouts. They are sold in the market like the feet 
of butchers' meat; they are a desirable addition to a stock, 
giving it extra body. 

Calves' and pigs' heads are more desirable than any 
others; they are found in the markets, thoroughly „ ^^ 
cleaned. Sometimes half a head can be purchased. 

The liver of all the animals is sold as food. Calves' liver 
is the best; it is usually light and clear in color j^.^^^ 
and tender in texture. Beeves' liver is dark and 
often hard or tough. Pigs' liver is, by many people, preferred 
to beeves' liver. 

The liver is the largest gland in the animal. Physiologists 
are still in doubt as to what all its functions are, but it is 
agreed that one of its offices is to maintain the ^^ ^^^^ 
uniform composition of the blood. It is one of should 
the organs that is frequently diseased; therefore J^^^^jJ® 
it should never be used without being first thor- examined 
oughly examined. If the texture is clear and ^®f°™ 
smooth one can be reasonably certain that it is in a 
healthy condition. If, on the contrary, there are streaks or 
spots in it, it must be discarded. These indications hold 
true also in the case of the livers of poultry or birds. 

Kidneys.— Veal, lamb, mutton, and beef kidneys are all 
used as food; they, like the liver, should be examined care- 
fully. Good healthy kidneys will have a clear, bright color; 
if diseased they will be cloudy and contain spots. 

Hearts.— The hearts of animals, when cooked with care, 
make a cheap, nutritious dish. They may be stewed, baked, 
or braized. 

Tongues.— The tongues of all animals are used for food. 
They should be firm and plump; when lean and flabby they 
will not make a tender dish. 

Tripe.— The stomach of the ox furnishes tripe. The 
butcher sells it cleaned and boiled. It should be plump, 

13 



194 HOME ECONOMICS 

white, and tender; when thin and dark it comes from an 
animal that was not in good condition, and will be tough 
and unsatisfactory, even if it should be in a healthy condi- 
tion, which is doubtful. 

Sweetbreads.— The thymus and pancreatic glands of the 

young calf and lamb are sold in the city markets as sweet- 

breads. Formerly only the heart sweetbread (pan- 

penda oa" creas) was sold, the thymus being left in the 

food and neck. The demand for these glands is now so 

^^^^^ great that the two are left together and sold as 

a pair. They vary greatly both as to size and 

quality, depending upon the age, food, and condition of the 

animal. For this reason it would seem more just to sell 

them by the pound (as is done sometimes) rather than by the 

pair. When the sweetbreads are taken from an animal that 

has been fed wholly and generously on sweet milk they are 

plump, white, compact, and firm. If the animal was not 

properly fed, or was pastured, they will be dark, flabby, and 

tough. 

These glands are rarely taken from any but the young 
calf or lamb, and, as a rule, the thymus gland has either 
been absorbed or changed to a fatty or fibrous substance at 
the end of the first year of the life of the animal. The pan- 
creas becomes tougher and darker, but it is never changed 
or eliminated, as is the thymus gland. It is not, however, 
an unusual thing to find these glands in a steer three or four 
years old in such fine condition that they make a very good 
dish. 

Sweetbreads spoil quickly; therefore they should not be 
kept many days, unless it be in cold storage. The fine ones 
are often frozen for use in winter, when veal is scarce. 

The brains, palates, eyes, marrow-bones, lungs, etc., are 
all employed as food. The brains of the calf, sheep, and 
lamb are the best. The marrow-bones from beef are those 
usually employed. 



MARKETING 196 



GAME AND POULTRY 

« 

Under the head of game is comprehended venison (the 
meat of the deer), bear-meat, rabbits, squirrels, many 
varieties of duck, partridge, grouse, ptarmigan, quail, 
woodcock, wild pigeons, and a great many small birds. 

The venison is cut very much like mutton. It should 
hang long enough to get thoroughly ripened— three weeks 
or more. Venison to be good must be fat; the lean Yex^aaiL 
is much darker than that of beef, and the fat 
whiter. This is one of the meats that must be served rare 
and hot, if you would have it in perfection. 

Game birds do not have the feathers removed until they 
are to be used. Let the butcher have this done before send- 
ing them to you. Be sure that the skin is not Qamebirdi 
torn oflf, as it is very necessary in cooking birds. 

Rabbits and squirrels should not be skinned until they are 
to be used; like birds, they dry if their natural covering is 
removed any length of time before cooking. Rab- Babbits 
bit-meat is white, delicate, and savory when young, and 
but dark and tough when old. The claws are rough ■^'"^'^l** 
and long in old rabbits; when tough they should be cooked 
slowly. 

Game birds are generally sold so much a piece, pair, or dozen. 

Poultry.— The question as to whether poultry for the 
market should be drawn or undrawn has been settled differ- 
ently by different States. It is a great pity that 
any State should decide in favor of undrawn poul- ,ui^^. 
try. Where this is the law, there certainly should 
also be a law, which should be enforced, that the animal go 
without food long enough to empty the crop. This is the law 
in some States, but it is not always observed. 

There are two methods of removing the feathers from 
poultry, one by plucking them from the dry bird, and the 



196 HOME ECONOMICS 

other by first plunging it into boiling water. By the latter 
method the feathers are removed more easily than by the 
former, but the water injures the flavor of the 
^^i^d^*^ meat and impairs its keeping qualities, 
scalded. • To know which is scalded and which is dry- 
picked is a simple matter. The hot water con- 
tracts the skin, which is drawn tightly over the flesh, giving 
the bird* a plump, attractive appearance. In the dry-picked 
bird the skin is loose and may be moved about on the flesh, 
and it has a rather rough appearance. To the novice it will 
look less attractive than the scalded bird. Dry-picked poul- 
try is generally several cents more per pound than the scalded, 
but it is worth the difference. 

Some of the tests of good poultry are: (1) the bird 

should be short and plump in proportion to its weight; 

(2) skin smooth, but not the smoothness that comes 

^^ood°' from scalding; (3) legs smooth; (4) toes pliable; 

poultry. (5) in poultry for roasting and broiling, the end of 

the breast-bone should bend readily— it must not 

be broken; (6) a large amount of meat on the breast; (7) the 

windpipe in ducks and geese brittle, breaking easily when 

pressed between the finger and thumb. 

Poultry, like all other meat, must be fat to be good. 
Housekeepers have their preference as to yellow or white 
fowl; mine is for the yellow, as it seemg to me that the 
flavor is richer than in the white chicken. 

Marketmen have a way of putting one of each in a pair, 
but they will change to whichever kind you prefer. 

Only young, tender poultry should be roasted or broiled, 

but the more mature birds are better for boiling, stewing. 

Kinds for ^^^ f ricassees, as the proportion of meat to bone 

varions is greater than in the younger bird. Older fowl are 

°^^*tae^' also cheaper. All poultry is suitable for roasting 

from the time it is three months until it is about a 

year old; after that the slower methods of cooking are better. 



MARKETING 197 

FisL— The first consideration in choosing fish is that it be 
fresh. For this reason it is better to use such fish as is caught 
near home than that which must be brought from a 
distance. The firmer the flesh of the fish, the longer ^^ qSoUy! 
time it will keep in good condition. All fish con- ' 
tain a thin albuminous substance, which in cooking is 
changed to a white curd if the fish is fresh and in a healthy 
condition. This is very noticeable in cod and halibut, and all 
fish of this class, where it makes a thin layer of a soft, creamy 
substance between the flakes. If the fish has been kept too 
long this substance undergoes a change which prevents its 
coagulation, and the cooked fish is watery and of a bluish 
appearance, instead of being firm and white. Sometimes in 
the spawning season the cooked fish, even when perfectly 
fresh, has the same blue appearance. 

Fresh fish will be firm, the scales bright, the gills red, the 
fins firm and erect. The fish from pure running streams, 
clear ponds and lakes, and from the ocean are the safest and 
best. Fish are very sanitary, and do not live in any great 
number in waters that are badly polluted, but they may ab- 
sorb just enough of the pollution to make them unhealthy and 
often dangerous, as, for example, oysters that grow in beds 
at the mouths of rivers from which sewage is discharged 
into the ocean or bay. Fish that inhabit stagnant waters 
or live at the bottom of muddy ponds never have a fine flavor, 
and one cannot feel that they may be as healthy as those 
from pure waters. 

CARE AND PURCHASE OP GENERAL SUPPLIES 

The care and purchase of household supplies depend upon 
where and how one lives. The family in a flat with little 
or no storage accommodation must of necessity buy only in 
small quantities, while the householder with cellar and plenty 
of other storage-room will find it a saving of time and money 



198 HOME ECONOMICS 

to lay in stores that may be kept for any length of time in 
large quantities. 

Green vegetables should be purchased only when needed. 
If asparagus or lettuce must be kept for a day or two, put 
some water in a shallow dish, and let the roots rest in the 
water, which should never be more than an inch deep. 

Chicory, sorrel, and all kinds of herbs may be kept fresh 
and crisp in the same manner. It must be remembered that 

How to ^^^y *^® ^^^* ®^^® ^^ ^^ ^^^ water. The cooler all 
keep green vegetables are kept, the better. 
^•|*2jJ*^ When vegetables have lost their freshness and 
crispness by being kept any length of time, the 
freshness may be restored to a great extent by soaking them 
in cold water— ice-water, if possible. 

Winter vegetables should be perfectly ripe before being 
gathered. The skin on fruit or vegetable, when fully ripe, 
forms an almost impervious covering, through which but 
little moisture can escape. If, however, it is picked before 
it is ripe, the moisture passes through the porous skin, and 
the fruit or vegetable shrinks. 

All winter vegetables should be dried before being stored, 

and they should be placed in a cool, dry place. Tuberous 

vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, beets, etc., will keep 

better if packed in dry earth or sand. Sweet potatoes spoil 

quickly, and should be purchased only in small 

vegetables quantities. Apples should be kept in a very cold 

should be place. They keep well in a temperature nearly 

stoiing.'^ down to the freezing-point. If one has a good, 

cool cellar, it will be economy to buy the winter 

and spring supply of apples and vegetables in the autumn, 

when they are cheap. 

Eggs are cheapest in the late spring, summer, and fall. 
Many housekeepers buy a quantity of eggs when they are 
cheap, and preserve them for the time when eggs are scarce 
and expensive. If the shells of the fresh eggs are coated 



MARKETING 199 

with some substance that will exclude the air, the eggs will 
keep very well for many months. It must be remembered, 
however, that eggs absorb flavor through their porous shell, 
and they should not be coated with or packed in any sub- 
stance that can communicate a disagreeable flavor to them. 
Sometimes quite fresh eggs are spoiled by being packed for 
a few days in musty oats. 

The food of the hens controls the flavor of the eggs to 
some extent. Eggs are heaviest when first laid, and they 
lose moisture and grow lighter from day to day. 

To test the freshness of eggs, make a salt solution of one 
quart of water and two tablespoonfuls of salt. A fresh egg 
will sink in this; an egg that is not very stale will 
give just a suggestion of rising, and a very stale ^-g,^ 
egg will float readily. 

Butter.— The mode of making and preserving butter has 
materially changed in late years. Dairy butter is no longer 
made in large quantities and stored, as in former years. 
Creamery butter has practically taken the place of the old- 
fashioned dairy butter; the former does not keep well, and 
only small quantities should be purchased at a time. 

When the cows are pastured in spring, summer, and fall, 
the butter is richer and of finer flavor than that made from 
the winter cream, and less of it may be used in making cake 
and pastry. 

Butter absorbs flavors, and it should be kept in a covered 
stone or earthen jar, and away from all strong odors. To 
harden butter for daily use keep it covered with cold 
water. 

Milk.— The greatest care should be exercised in deciding 
upon where the supply of milk comes from, and, when it has 
been delivered to you, in keeping it where it shall not become 
contaminated or absorb odors. 

At a slight advance in the ordinary price one may now 
get milk that has been bottled and sealed at the farm, thus 



'# 



200 HOME FX^ONOMICS 

insuring a f airiy pure article. Good milk will be slightly straw* 

Color of colored and have a pleasant flavor and odor. When 

milk and the milk IS thin and blue, it has either been skimmed 

^*roU in**" ^^ watered, or there is something wrong with it. 

which it is If there is the slightest reason to think that the 

^*^*' milk is contaminated, boil it before using. 

The greatest care is required in the treatment of the milk 
after it is received into the house. The vessels in which it 
is kept should he thoroughly washed, scalded, and then 
cooled. The milk or cream should, if possible, be kept in a 
cool, well-lighted and -ventilated room. Fresh and stale milk 
should never be mixed, unless they are to be cooked at once. 

Groceries.— Even in small apartments it is wise to purchase 
at least a month's supply of groceries, as it is a great waste 
of time and patience to find each day that something is 
wanting that necessitates a trip to the grocer's, and perhaps 
delay in preparing a dish which requires but one thing to 
complete it. Every store-closet should be supplied with 
sugar, flour, tea, coifee, chocolate, eggs, breakfast cereals (if 
used), molasses, salt, pepper, spice, rice, macaroni, bicarbon- 
ate of soda, cream of tartar, baking-powder, flavoring ex- 
tracts, vinegar, gelatin, barley, starch, bluing, soap, and 
sal-soda. 

All dry groceries and cereals should be kept in glass, pot- 
tery, or metal. The store-closet should be cool, dry, and well 
ventilated; heat and moisture, lack of ventilation, 
J^gjiei7 ^^^ insects are the enemies of all cereals. 

Nearly all kinds of food-supplies absorb flavors 
and odors to some degree. Chocolate, cocoa, coffee, flour, 
butter, milk, and eggs are among the things that absorb 
odors and flavors readily. 

As a rule, the best goods are the cheapest in the end. It 
is especially important that the flour be of the best quality. 
Good flour will have a pleasant odor and a slightly yellowish 
tinge. Wet a small quantity with cold water, and work into 



MARKETING 201 

a rather stiff dough. If the dough becomes stiff and elastic 
the flour will make good bread. 

The less spice used the better, but in any case it should be 
of the best quality. 

The best sugar is so reasonable that there is no necessity 
for even poor people to seek a cheap grade. 

Porto Rico molasses is more acid than the New Orleans, 
and is therefore better for gingerbread. 



CHAPTER X 

THE ART OF CARVING 
Some suggestions abont carving. General remarks on serving fish. 

There was an old saying among the French that it was as 
disgraceful for a host not to know how to carve well as it 
was to have a fine library and not know how 
anTpia? *^ reakd. Nowadays one is constantly hearing 
sure of the complaint that carving is a lost art since 
** toSS. ** *^® Russian style of serving has been in vogue. 
It is certainly true that for large and cere- 
monious dinners the carving is not done at the table; but 
there are few heads of families who, having been accus- 
•BjoAMtoA ^^^^ ^ Sood living, would willingly, under ordi- 
aad boiled ^^^ circumstances, relinquish the duty and plea- 
meats sure of carving the joints, poultry, or game served 
perfection ^^ ^^eir own tables. Roasted and boiled meats 
when may only be served in perfection by being carved 
^^^ quickly and well on the table. It is impossible 
to serve a portion of meat hot, crisp, and juicy 
from an adjoining room. Besides, there are comparatively 
few households that can afford a skilled butler or cook who 
can carve daintily and to good advantage. 

The art of carving is a most useful and graceful accom- 
plishment, and one which should form a part of the education 

202 



THE ART OP CARVING 203 

of every young man and woman. It is not a difficult art to 
master, provided one goes about it in the right (j^n^tion 
manner. If one understands the anatomy of necessary 
the joint or bird, and the direction in which for good 
the muscular fibers run, half the battle is won. ^^^'^^^fif* 

Some of the conditions necessary for success are a cool 
head, control of one's temper, a sharp knife, a seat high 
enough to bring the elbows on a line with the table, ample 
space, a dish that stands firmly on the table and large enough 
to allow the joint to be carved without any danger of soiling 
the cloth. Having a knowledge of bones and muscles, and 
all the conditions being favorable, the carver will be able to 
do his work scientifically, rapidly, and gracefully. 

Realizing how much clearer a few pencil lines may make 
things than pages of written instruction, whenever it has 
seemed desirable the methods of carving a joint 
or a bird have been fully illustrated. As these ^he iUus- 
illustrations are for real helps, and not for em- trati<m8 if 
bellishment, the lines have been made as few, ^Jt^edf 
clear, and simple as possible, that there need 
be no doubt or confusion in the mind of the carver. If 
these illustrations are studied carefully, and if, in addition, 
the carver will study, in the chapter on " Marketing," Figs. 
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16, the position of the bones and 
the direction of the muscles in the various cuts of butchers' 
meat will be clearly understood, and will aid the carver in 
knowing in what direction he should cut a joint, that the 
slice of meat may be cut across the grain. 

The four cuts showing the bones, muscles, and Why four 
mode of carving a shoulder of mutton are given ^^Sdef of 
as a study of the complicated manner in which mutton aro 
the muscles are arranged in this part of the do- «^^^' 
mestic animal. It would be an easy and valuable lesson to 
bone an uncooked shoulder of mutton. When purchasing 
this joint, ask the butcher not to bone it. With a sharp 



204 HOME ECONOMICS 

knife pare off all the outer fat, leaving the lean bare. Then 
slip the knife between the bone and the flesh, beginning at 
the broad end of the shoulder-blade, and work down to the 
arm- and leg-bones. Remove the meat on the under side of 
the bone in the same manner. Examine the muscles to find 
the direction of each set. 

This piece of meat, when taken from a good fat animal, 
will contain thick layers of fat between the lean. Some of 
this may be removed, and the lean meat boiled, roasted, or 
braized. It is not as tender as some of the prime cuts, but 
it is very sweet and juicy. 

SOME SUGGESTIONS ABOUT CARVING 

There should be a long, broad-bladed knife for roast beef 
and other large joints; a smaller and narrow-bladed knife 
for poultry and small joints. The fork should 
hevMd^ have a guard, which should be up while one is 
carving. The knife must be examined and sharp- 
ened on the steel before it is used; this should be done be- 
fore it is brought to the table. 

In sharpening on the steel, be careful not to bear heavily 

on the knife, or to hold it at too sharp an angle. The best 

way is to draw the knife under and over the steel, 

^^^J^J?^ at an angle of about fifteen or twenty degrees, 

a knife, drawing from the end of the knife near the handle 

down to the point. The last strokes should be 

very slow and light, to even up the edge, if by chance it has 

become slightly turned. 

Carving-knives should be ground once in a while. Unless 
you know how to do it yourself, or know of a good place 
where it may be done, ask your butcher to have it done for 
you. There is a French make of knife which is inexpensive 
and very satisfactory; they are called cooks' knives (the 
name of the maker is Sabatier). One can afford several sizes 



THE ART OF CARVING 205 

of these knives, and they will be found invaluable. A French 
knife for carving poultry that solves the problem of joints 
for the inexperienced carver is called a disjointer or knife- 
scissors. It is, however, too expensive for people of moder- 
ate means, the knife and fork in ebony handles costing fif- 
teen dollars, and in ivory twenty-five dollars. 

The carver's chair should be broad, firm, and ^•??'^" 
high. There is no reason why any one should ^^^^ 
stand to carve. 'woad and 

A joint or bird should not be garnished with ^ 
anything that will interfere with the work of the .^^•'?^^," 
carver. Parsley, cress, and chevril may be put nS inter- 
aside by the carver; therefore they are not objec- fere with 
tionable; but any substance that interferes with ^J^er. 
the work of carving is not advisable, no matter how 
decorative. It is impossible to carve easily on a small plat- 
ter; it is well to have a plate on which the carver may put 
trimmings or bones that are not to be served. 

Each joint or fowl should be so carved that if all is not 
required for one meal, it shall present a neat and attractive 
appearance the second day. Every slice or joint should be 
cut smoothly and neatly; a joint or fowl that has been hacked 
is unappetizing and wasteful. 

Finish carving one side of a joint or fowl before begin- 
ning on the other side. When carving poultry, whether to 
ask the guests for their preference as to light or 
dark meat is a problem. Naturally, one wishes to ^^Sm a' 
please every one at the table; but if, by chance gvLMt*% 
(and this often happens), the majority of the f^y^^ 
guests give a preference for one kind of meat, the dark meat, 
carver is in an embarrassing position. There was 
a time when one felt assured that the ladies would prefer 
light meat; but women have learned that dark meat is juicy 
and fine-flavored, and even the long-despised drumstick is 
now the first choice of many. 



206 HOME ECONOUIGS 

One may always be safe in cutting across the grain in all 

joints. Even the most tender piece of meat will be tough if 

it is cut with the grain, t. e., with the length of the fiber. 

Alwan Where the muscles are short and not much used, 

Mfe to cot as, for example, the breast of poultry and birds, 

■^"J**" it is not imperative that they should be cut across 

the grain. - 

When carving poultry or birds one is sure to strike the 

wing joint at the right point if the knife is in a line with 

the top of the leg where it touches the body. 

Sirloin of Beef, or Porterhonie Roast— This joint is known 
in different sections of the country under the above names. 
It may be divided into three parts: a, the back or top; b, the 
tenderloin or fillet; c, e, 
the flank. The most 
tender part is the ten- 
derloin ; nest is the top. 
The flank is tough, 
coarse, and loose- 
grained, but very juitqr 
\ and fine-flavored. Even 
though it is not served 
Fi siitmnci Dneihouie foui at thc table, it is an ad- 

vantage to cook it on 
the joint, as it makes such a quantity of dish gravy. The 
crisp fat on this part of the roast is also a desirable addition 
to the dbb. 

If the tenderloin is to be served with the other portions, 
turn the joint on the end, and slip the knife between the bone 
and the tenderloin, being careful to keep the edge of the 
blade close to the bone. In this manner the tenderloin may 
be removed whole, and slices cut from it as they are required. 
Turn the joint back into its former position. 
1. Cut close to the backbone, following the dotted line 
c, e, and cutting sharply down the spine. 



THE ART OP CARVING 207 

2. Slip the knife between the spine and the meat. 

3, Cut thin slices in the direction of the dotted lines d, d. 
Serve a small piece of crisp fat from the flank with each 

slice of beef, and pour a 
a spoonful of dish 
gravy on each portion 
of meat. 

If only a portion of 
the joint is to be 
carved, do not cut the 
whole length of the 
dotted line e, e. It is 
a good plan to cut at 
once as many slices 
as there are persons 

to be served, separating each slice at the end of the carving; 
then all tastes may be suited, and the service may be prompt. 

If one wishes, the tenderloin may be carved first; slices 
from this portion of the joint should be thicker than those 
which are cut from the top. 

BoBst Ribs of Beet— Have the thick end to the left (Fig. 
26). Cut from a to & straight down to the bone; slip the 




knife between the ribs and the meat. Cut thin slices, fol* 
lowing the dotted lines b, c. (Read suggestions in "Sirloin 
Roast.") 
Boiled Biba of Beet— Carve like a round of beef (Fig. 27). 



208 HOME ECONOMICS 

Roimd of Beef.— Have a sharp, broad-bladed knife, and 
cut thin slices from a to b. 

Legof Mutton.— The carving of a leg of mutton is not 
difficult until you come to the hip-bone, and in what is called 
a short leg this is often wanting, having been cut into 
chops. However, as a rule it is found in the average leg. 

Have the leg placed on the dish in the position indicated 
in Fig. 28. 

Make the first incision at the line a, 6, where you will 
just touch the edge of the hip-bone. Cut slices about one 
fourth of an inch thick. The slices will be large and 
rare until you reach the line c, d. Here they begin to grow 
smaller and better done. 

If some like underdone and others well-done meat, the 
better plan is to make the first cut near c, d, cutting down- 
ward toward the knuckle for well-done slices, and 

kniuUe of ^P^^^^ ^^^ ^^® underdone; serve a thin slice of 

lamb or crisp fat from e with each portion. In a properly 

mntton is cooked leg of mutton or lamb the knuckle is a 

ft OliOlOO 

morsel, choice morsel; ask if any one would like a bit of 
this. 

When one side is carved, turn and carve on the other 
side, following the same general direction. 

Some carvers prefer to begin with the other side, taking 
the first slices from the back, cutting either parallel or at 
right angles with the backbone. Chops may be cut from/ to e. 

Mutton It is needless to say that this, as all dishes of 
sorvedhot "^^*^^^> should be served hot. The carving must 
and carved be rapid, the plates hot, and the vegetables served 

rapidly, at once. 

Saddle of Mutton.— l. Turn the saddle on one side, and 
remove the tenderloin, kidney, and fat, all in one piece. 
This is easily accomplished if the sharp edge of the blade 
of the knife slants toward the backbone. 

2. There are three methods of carving a long saddle of 




! 
THE ART OP CARVING 209 ! 

mutton. One is to cut long, thin slices parallel with the 
backbone, as indicated by the dotted line a, b, in Fig* 29. 
Another is to cut thin 

slices in a slanting di- jC^- i -^ 

rection, as indicated in (^::^-:^^:;:-j_^-"---irT.n-rfT^ 

the dotted lines c, rf, cut- ^v-- - '• \ \ '^ '^ ' ' * 

ting thin slices of fat /-V:::~:i: \\\\\vj 
from 6 to/. Still another ^ ^^==^^^^=^^^ 

method is to cut as in- Fig. 09. saddle of mutton. 

dicated by the dotted 

lines Qy a, then in slanting slices from c to rf. By consulting 
Fig. 14 it will be seen that the last method has the advan- 
tage of cutting all the portions across the grain. A slice 
of kidney should be served with each portion. 

Haunch of Mutton.— This joint is carved like a haunch of 
venison (Fig. 38). 

Loin of Mutton.— This joint can be carved like a saddle, 
but it is more usual to separate it into chops. When the 
roast is to be carved in this manner, the butcher must have 
orders to disjoint the bones. 

Eoast Shoulder of Mutton.— A shoulder of mutton, lamb, 
veal, and venison may all be carved in the manner indicated 
in Figs. 32 and 33. Follow the dotted lines, and you will 
cut across the grain. Fig. 34 (shoulder-blade, arm- and 
leg-bones) and Fig. 35 are given to show the position of the 
bones and muscles in this cut. 

This joint is apt to be very fat in mutton, and should be 
served very hot. 

Fore Quarter of Mutton.— Carve as directed for fore 
quarter of lamb, except that the neck should not be served. 
As a rule, it is too tough, in the mature animal, for any- 
thing but stewing. 

Leg of Lamb.— This is carved the same as a leg of mutton. 

Hind Quarter of Lamb. — Carve the leg as directed for 

mutton, and cut the loin into chops. 
u 



HOME ECONOICCS 



. Cut off the shoulder, following 



Eon QnartOT <tf Lamb. - 

the dotted line from a to b. 

2. Separate the ribs into chops, cutting in the direction 
from c to rf. If it is a spring lamb the thymus gland or 
throat sweetbread should be found in the neck. Carre the 




shoulder as directed for shoulder of mutton. Every particle 
of spring lamb is tender; therefore the neck is served. 

Loiji of TeaL— This joint ia often stuffed, the thin flank 
piece overlapping the stuffing and kidney. If a chop is 
served to each person it makes too large a portion. Remove 
the kidney. Carve the same as a sirloin of beef. Serve 
with each portion a slice of kidney and a slice of the flank, 
with some of the stuffing attached. 




Breast of VeaL— The breast of veal is what answers to the 
brisket and cross-rib piece in beef. Where the shoulder 
has been removed the layer of meat is thin, and should be 
protected and moistened while cooking by thin slices of fat 
pork, or, if the pork is objectionable, by buttered paptif . If 



THE ART OF CARVING 211 

the ribs are short, serve one with each portion cut from 
a, a, a, to 6, b, b. The brisket, c, c, may be divided into two 
portions. In the calf the bones are so tender How to 
that they may be cut with a sharp knife, but it protect 
is better to have the butcher separate the joints. *i^^?' 

vr 1- ^ «T 1 DTOart of 

IiecK of Veal.— The neck of veal is the upper veal when 
part of that portion of the fore quarter from oooldzig. 
which the shoulder and breast were taken. It what is in- 
includes the chuck ribs and the neck part. Some- cdnded in a 
times the throat sweetbread is found in the neck. %eai? 
Have the butcher separate the joints of the back- 
bone. This joint may be carved in chops, or thin slices 
may be cut from the ribs, as in the case of ribs of beef. 
Naturally, the slices are small. 





Fig. 34. Position of shoulder-bone. Fig. 35. Showing position of muscles in shoulder. 

Shoulder of VeaL— Carve this like the shoulder of mutton. 
Sometimes the shoulder is boned and stuffed; in that case 
begin at one end and cut slices through the piece. This 
requires a sharp knife and great care that the slices shall 
look smooth and inviting. 

Boast Fillet of VeaL— The fillet of veal and fricandeau 
are both carved like a round of beef. (See Fig. 27.) 

Loin of Pork.— This joint may be carved in thin slices, like 
a sirloin roast of beef, or it may be separated into chops, 
each person being served with one chop. 

Spare Bibs of Pork are cut between the ribs; each person 
is served with a rib. 

To Carve a Ham.— A boiled or roast ham is a dish that, as 
a rule, comes to the table many times. It should be carved 



212 



HOME ECONOMICS 



in such a manner that the last cuts shall be as moist and 
well flavored as the first. The small or knuckle end is less 
fat and juicy than the broad, thick end; therefore it dries 
quickly, and should be the part first used. 

Cut in the direction of the lines (Fig. 36), cutting clean 
and straight to the bone. Have the slices very thin. Con- 
tinue cutting toward the knuckle. 

When the ham is set away the cut part should be pro- 
tected by paraffin paper. 

Tongue.— A tongue, like a ham, has its thick and juicy 
end,Nand also its dry end. It should be carved so as to use 
the thin, dry end the first day. Begin cutting at c, d, slant- 
ing the slices, which cut 
very thin; when you have 
carved as many slices as 





Fisr. 36. Ham. 



Fig. 37, Tongue. 



there are people to serve, carve the same number of slices 

from the thick part. Follow the line from a to 6. Cut a 

thin sliver of fat from e. Serve each person with a large 

and small slice of tongue and a little fat. 
Haunch of Venisoa.— This joint includes the leg and loin. 

To cut the meat across the grain, the direction of the dotted 
lines in Fig. 38 should be followed. A method 
common with some good carvers is to cut wholly 
in the direction of a, c. By consulting Figs. 14 
and 16 it will be seen that by this method the 
meat on the leg is cut with the grain. 

A leg, loin, shoulder, and fore quarter of 

venison are carved like the same joints in mutton and 

lamb. 



Veniflonii 

oarvedlike 

the same 

joints in 

mutton or 

lamb. 



THE ART OP CARVING 213 

It is very important that the plates be hot and the carv- 
ing be rapid. 

To Carve a Boast Pig.— This dish is served so infrequently 
that there is not the same opportunity to perfect one's self 
by practice as is the case with the greater number of dishes 
that come to the carver's hands. 

The animal is so young that bones and ligaments offer no 
resistance to a sharp knife. Once knowing how to begin, 
and where the knife should go, the task is quite simple. 



*^ a ■ ^ *^ — :=3nr'"'— "-v — -"^ 

Fig. 38. Haunch of veoison. Fig, 39. Roast pig. 

There are two methods of bringing the pig to the table; 
both methods have their advantages. When all the carving 
is done at the table the meat is hotter and the cracklings 
crisper than when it is cut in the kitchen; but, on the other 
hand, if the work in the kitchen is done rapidly and well, 
and the pig is served on a hot dish, there need be no great 
loss of heat or crispness, and the time of the carver is saved. 

Have the pig on a large platter, the side toward 
the carver, and the head at the right hand. Cut ^ ??^J!? * 
off the ears; sever the head from the body; split pig. 
the head in two. Divide the body in two parts, 
cutting through the middle of the backbone. Lay the two 
halves on the platter, back to back, the browned side up. 
Place half a head at each end and the ears at the sides. The 
head may be divided into small portions, if the guests express 
a wish for it. 

Separate the shoulder from the body, following the dotted 
lines from a to 6 (Fig. 40). Next take off the leg, follow- 
ing the dotted lines from e to d. As each joint is taken off, 
lay it with the crackling side up. 

The carver may now begir to serve. To carve the ribs 



214 



HOME ECONOMICS 




Fig. 4a 



and loin, cut at right angles with the backbone, as indicated 
by the dotted lines e and/. 

Each person should be served with the part which he pre- 
fers; but a portion of the cracklings must be reserved for each 

guest, as this is the cream 
of the roast. If the pig 
is stuffed, a little stuffing 
goes by the side of the 
meat. If sauce or gravy is 
/ ^ served, it must always be 
r putatthesideofthemeat, 
:^ J never on it, as that would 
^ destroy the crispness. 

In all the work be care- 
ful not to tear or moisten 
the crisp brown skin, which gets its name from 
making a crackling noise when cut. The French 
call it " cloth of gold," because of the rich golden 
brown of the perfectly roasted and basted skin. 
No matter what the method of carving, it must 
be done rapidly, that the meat may be served crisp and hot. 
To Carve a Turkey.— Opinions differ as to the best posi- 
tion in which a fowl should be placed before the carver. 
There are those who 
maintain that the head 
should be turned toward 
the carver, while quite 
as many advocate turn- 
ing the head from the 
carver. Others place the 
fowl with the head to- 
ward the left hand and 
the side toward the carver. My preference is for the lat- 
ter position; but the position one is accustomed to is, of 
course, always the easiest. 



Care must 
betaken 
not to tear 
or moisten 
the brown 
skin. 




Fig. 41. 



*' 



THE ART OF CARVING 215 

Have the turkey served on a large dish; stick the fork firmly 
in the center of the breast-bone, and carve in the manner 
indicated in the drawing. 

1. Remove the wing, cutting sharply down at a to sever 
the joint, then round the joint, following the dotted lines 
from a to 6. 

2. To remove the leg, cut from c to d, following the dotted 
line. With the blade of the knife press the leg back, and 
cut the ligaments where the thigh-bone is attached to the 
back; separate the drumstick from the thigh at the joint c. 

3. Take off the side-bone, inserting the knife where the 
at/, and cutting up to g. The "oyster" is found *| oyster" 
on the upper end of this bone. " *""^ 

4. Cut thin slices from the breast, beginning close to the 
place from which the wing was removed;- follow the dotted 
lines h and f, working up to the ridge of the breast-bone. 

5. Take off the wishbone, inserting the knife at fc, and 
cutting up to j and I; then, pressing the bone back toward 
the neck, disjoint at these two points. 

6. The collar-bone lies under the wing. Slip the knife 
under the broad end, press back, and disjoint. 

7. Make an opening in the apron at m. You will now 
have the dark and light meat at your command, and, also, 
the stuflSng in the breast and the body of the fowl. 

The tip end of the backbone, known as the pope's nose, is 
considered by many as a delicate morsel. Insert the knife 
at n to cut off this joint. 

If only half the turkey is to be used the first ^J?^ 
day, do not attempt to take out the wishbone. turkey do 

The dark meat on the thigh-bone and drum- not remove 
stick should be cut into small, inviting portions. j^jne. " 
The wing should be divided into two parts. The 
meat, stuffing, and gravy should be placed carefully on the 
plate. The breast, as a rule, may be cut into thin, inviting 
slices. 



*, 



216 HOME ECONOMICS 

Sometimes there are two kinds of stuffing in the turkey, 
the breast being stuffed with sausage-meat, truffles, etc., 

Two kinds ^^^ *^® ^^^^ ^*^ * stuffing of highly seasoned 
of itnfflng bread- or cracker-<;rumbs. The carver should be 
'^^i^ made acquainted with this fact. 

Carve only one side; when that is served, the 
other side may be carved, if it is required. 

Cut each joint and slice clean and smooth. A great deal 
of meat will be found on the carcass after the wings, legs, 
and side-bones have been taken off. 

In some families the legs of the turkey are put aside to 
be served deviled the next day. 

The French sometimes make this dish still larger by leav- 
ing the lower part of the backbone attached to the thigh-bone. 

Boast Chioken.— A roast chicken is generally carved the 
same as in the directions for carving a turkey, except that 
the legs, not being so large, are not divided into so many 
parts. Sometimes the entire chicken is divided into joints. 
This is more difficult for the amateur, and more awkward for 
the guest, than when the meat is cut from the bones. If 
one wishes to serve a chicken in this manner, the carving is 
begun as indicated for a turkey. The legs, side-bones, and 
pope's nose are taken off; the first two joints of the wings 
only are removed. Cut straight down from this joint to the 
end of the breast-bone; separate these two long pieces from 
the shoulder-bone and any ligaments that may hold them. 
Separate the breast-bone from the back; cut this in two, sepa- 
rating it a little below the joint where the wishbone comes. 

Boiled FowL— This dish is carved the same as roast chicken. 

Broiled Chicken.— If the chickens are small, divide them 
into four parts in the following manner: Cut through the 
breast, and separate each half by cutting across at right 
angles with the top of the leg. When they are large, 
they may be divided into smaller portions by taking off the 
wings and legs and then dividing the body into several parts. 



THE ART OP CARVING 217 

Eoast Duck.— The method of carving varies with the cus- 
tom of the house, and whether the fowl is domestic or wild. 
The wild fowl uses both legs and wings a great 
deal, thus making the joints tough and hard to ^^^0^ 
carve; while the domestic duck uses the legs much served in 
less, and the wings but rarely; therefore these <»J^^^ do- 
joints are more tender than in the wild fowl. It wild duok. 
is the custom in many households to serve only 
the breast of the wild duck, reserving the legs, wings, and 
carcass for a salmi. In that case the duties of the carver 
are extremely simple. 

In case the entire duck is served hot, it may be carved by 
either of the following methods: 

1. Begin at the wing joint (a. Fig. 42), and cut off the 
wing, following the dotted line from a to 6. 

2. Cut off the leg, following the dotted line pint 
from c to d. Press back the leg, and sever the method of 
thigh-bone from the back. This joint lies farther ^Sretok 
back in the duck and goose than in the turkey or is served 
fowl. ^^*- 

3. Cut slices from the breast, following the dotted lines 
e, e. Begin at the lower part of the side, and work up to the 
ridge of the breast-bone. The slices should be cut slanting; if 
the knife is carried straight down it gives too narrow a slice. 

4. The side-bone will be found by inserting the knife at/, 
and following the dotted line. 

The side-bone in the duck is short. (See Fig. 43, d, d.) 
A good deal of rich, juicy meat will be found on the sides 
below the breast-bone. These portions are small, and can- 
not be cut in regular pieces like the breast, but they should 
be utilized by serving them with the breast. 

The shoulder-blade will be found under the wings. The 
back may be divided into two parts, if it is to be served. 
If the duck is stuffed, make an opening in the apron near/, 
and serve the stuffing from here. 



218 



HOME ECONOMICS 



The second method has the breast taken off in one solid 
piece, and is then cut into suitable portions. 

g^^^^ Fig. 43 shows the position of the joints of the 

method of wings and legs, and the method of removing the 
••J^^ * breast, a and b show the bones where the wing 
is disjointed, c shows where the leg-bone is at- 
tached to the body; d, d, the side-bone. The dotted line c, e, 
is in a line with the ridge in the breast-bone, and shows 




Fig. 43. 

where the breast is cut down to the bone; the knife is then 
slipped under it and worked close to the bone until the entire 
piece of meat may be lifted off the bone. The lines/,/, 
show the method of dividing this piece of breast. 

The carver will do well to study this cut carefully, that 
he may become perfectly familiar with the joints of the 
wings, legs, and side-bones. 

Note.— The drawings for the carving of the 
ducks were made at different times; the second 
duck was shorter and plumper than the first. 

Boast Goose.— The only difference in carving a 
goose and a duck is that, the former being larger, 
the leg and wing are divided into two or more parts. 



The carver 
ihouldbe 
fi iT nil i i ftr 

with joints 
of wingB, 
legs, and 

side-bones. 



THE ART OP CARVING 219 

Roast (Jrouse.— The wings of this bird are generally clipped 
off close to the body before it is cooked. In a ceremonious 
dinner the legs are not 
served. When the bird 

is young the legs are a I 

desirable portion, the fla- 
vor being delicious. ' 

Cut the breast in slices 
parallel with the breast- 
bone. Each breast should pi^,,,. 
give from six to eight 

slices. Serve a little bread-sauce and fried crumbs at the 
side of each portion. At some tables each person is served 
with half a breast; this is hardly to be recommended. 

Ptarmigan and Partridge are carved and served like grouse. 

Figeons and QoaiL— These birds are often served Small 
whole, or they maybe divided into two parts. In ^^^'^ 
that case cut through the breast and backbone lengthwise. 

All small birds are served whole, 

GENERAL REMARKS ON SERVING PISH 

Steel imparts a disagreeable flavor to cooked fish; never 
use a steel knife or fork in serving it. 

The fat portions of fish are usually found in the ^ 'i* *"* 
thin flank or belly. The gelatinous portions are parts of 
near the head and neck. It is for this reason that Ail>- 
cod's head is so much esteemed by many persons. The tail 
is also gelatinous, and is much more delicate than the head 
and neck. 

Small fish, like smelts, brook-trout, perch, etc., are 

served whole. Fish like mackerel, lake-trout, g^yj] j^ 

carp, salmon-trout, shad, etc., are cut through the 

body, bone and all, as indicated in Fig, 44, thus giving a thick 

' slice; or serve one side, remove the bone, and serve the other. 



220 



HOME ECONOMICS 



Cod, haddock, bluefish, etc., when small, are served in the 

same manner. When large, the portions are cut from one 

side; the bone is then lifted and sent from the 

do% Utte- table, and the under part is served. Be careful, 

flgh, etc. when serving fish, to keep the flakes unbroken. 





Fig. 44. 



Fig. 45. 



Cod's Head and Shoulder.— There being three choices in 
cod's head and shoulder (Pig. 45),— (6, e, d) the neck, (c) the 
flank, and (a) the firm white flakes, —the guest should be 
asked which part he prefers. 

When serving fish containing roe, serve a small piece with 
each portion. 





Fig. 46. 



Fig. 47- 



All large fish, like salmon, halibut, swordfish, etc., should 
be carved as indicated in Fig. 46. a, b is the back, where 
Lane fish ^^^ ^® found the firm, large flakes; c, d is the flank, 
like Balm- which is fat and gelatinous. 
b\^^" ^^^ flatfish have, like fiounder, plaice, chicken 
halibut, etc., a large fiat bone running through 
the center, and when large they should be carved as indi- 
cated in Fig. 47. 

1. Cut through to the bone from a to b. 

2. Slip the knife between the flakes and the bone, then 
begin cutting at c, d. Slip the knife under the portion, and 



THE ART OF CARVING 221 

place it on the plate without disturbing its form. Do the 
other half of the side in the same manner. The bone will 
now be exposed; lift it up and send it from the table. Serve 
the under part in small fillets, the same as the upper part is 
served. 

When the fish is small, make four fillets of it,— that is, 
simply remove the top in two sections,— and when the bone 
is lifted serve the under part in two pieces. 



CHAPTER XI 

FOOD 

firief outline of the processes of digestion. Fruits. Fats. Principles un- 
deriying the cooking of albuminous substances. Principles underlying 
the cooking of vegetable substances. The manipulation of materials. 
Flavors and odors. Economy in food. Growth and repair. Heat and 
force. Vegetables with little or no starch. 

The food question is a complicated one, and in dealing with 
it one must look at its many sides: (1) cost; (2) nutritive value 
of different substances; (3) seasons; (4) climate; (5) age; 
(6) occupation; (7) eccentricities of taste and digestion. 
The olirjeot In providing food for any number of people, the 
^hwfood" ^^2^^^ for which it is employed should be consid- 
ihould bo ered. Primarily the use of food is to supply ma- 
oonsidered. terial for the growth and repair of the animal body, 

Every and to give heat and vital force. Incidentally, 
er ihonld among civilized humanity, it contributes largely 
have some to the social life. 

rfSe Each meal should supply the proper elements 

change for each of these requirements. Every house- 

-M .-I wft M.'tiL- 

rials im- keeper who would provide her family with food 

dergo in suitable for the maintenance of physical and men- 

oookmg. ^^Y vigor must know something of the principles 

of nutrition and digestion, and have some knowledge of the 

changes the raw materials undergo in cooking. 

222 



POOD 223 

* 

It is claimed that the ordinary housekeeper has not time to 
study these subjects. It is almost the work of a lifetime to mas- 
ter any one of the sciences, but any intelligent woman may learn 
the essential principles underlying the science of nutrition. 

The market value of food materials does not, as a rule, 
indicate their nutritive value. For example, there .. , . 
is more nutrition in a pound of a flank of beef than value does 
in a pound of tenderloin from the same animal; yet not indieate 
the tenderloin will cost three or four times as yai^e 
much as the flank piece. 

It must be remembered, however, that it often happens 
that food materials that are rich in nutritive qualities are 
difiicult of digestion and require careful treatment to make 
them a satisfactory food. 

The most important food principles have been divided by 
scientists into two general divisions, and these are again 
subdivided. The two great divisions are compre- 
hended under nitrogenous compounds and carbon nOTwoSm- 

compounds. pounds and 

The nitrogenous compounds are absolutely ne- carbon 
cessary for the growth and repair of the living an- ponnds. 
imal, and it is possible to live upon animal food 
alone. The carbon compounds give heat and force, but they 
alone cannot sustain life for any great length of time. 

The nitrogenous compounds include albumin, fibrin, and 
casein. Lean meat, eggs, milk, and fish are the sources 
from which we get nitrogenous foods in the most concen- 
trated and digestible forms. Some vegetable substances are 
rich in nitrogen, while others are almost destitute of this 
important element. 

The carbon compounds include starch, sugar, fats, etc. 
Although these foods are not absolutely essential to life, 
they are of great value in supplying heat and energy, and 
are less exciting and more economical food than all nitrog- 
enous materials. 



224 HOME EOONOMIGS 

The digestive organs of a human being provide for the 

digestion of both carbon and nitrogenous compounds, so 

that nature designed that all these elements should 

m^u ^ enter into the nutrition of mankind. It is essen- 
ihouid oon- tial, then^ that the daily menu should consist of a 
prmrpro- P^^P®^ proportion of these two great divisions and 
portion of the phosphates and other inorganic salts and 

along. HitrogenouB Substances are composed of four 

elements— carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitro- 
gen. They are also known as proteid substances, because 
protoplasm enters into the composition of the cells of the 
organism. Another name by which they are known is albumi- 
nous substances, because they belong to the series of sub- 
stances of which the white of egg is taken as a type. Some- 
times, too, they are called flesh-like substances, because the 
muscles of the body are composed of these four elements. 
These explanations are for the young people, who are so often 
confused by the multiplicity of names for the same thing. 
Nitrogenous substances are flesh-formers. This term is 
often used in dietaries. In nature nitrogenous foods are 
nearly always mixed with other food principles. In animal 
foods there is always fat, various salts, and sometimes sul- 
phur and phosphorus. The casein of milk, the vegetable 
casein of pease, beans, nuts, etc., and the gluten of flour 
all come under the head of albuminous or nitrogenous sub- 
stances. 

The Carbon Compounds are composed of carbon, hydrogen, 
and oxygen. They are divided into two classes— carbohy- 
drates and hydrocarbons. 

Carbohydrates are so called because the hydrogen and 
oxygen are in the right proportion to produce water. This 
division of the carbon compounds includes starch, dextrine, 
gum, and sugar. 

Hydrocarbons.— The fats belong to this group. They 



POOD 225 

contain more carbon than the carbohydrates, and hence 
yield more heat and force. 

The carbon compounds are sometimes called combustible 
food, because they are burned in the body to produce heat 
and force. Miiieral 

Besides the nitrogenous and carbon compounds, foods 
there is another class of food that is essential to SSa^^ 
the health of all living animals and vegetables, ter, lime, 
These are the mineral foods, and include water, "^JlrJ^*' 
lime, salt, etc. ewential. 

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE PROCESSES OP DIGESTION 

In the selection, preparation, and serving of the food the 
housekeeper and cook have a serious duty to perform. It is 
not sufficient that enough of some sort of food be given; it 
must be of the right kind, properly prepared, and, so far as 
it lies in their power, served in such a manner that it shall 
appeal to the eye and palate. 

The manner of preparing, serving, and eating food has a 
marked effect on the digestive organs. Every housekeeper 
and cook should have a clear understanding of House- 
when, where, and how each food principle is di- keeper and 
gested, that in cooking the combinations and pro- ^Jy^^e 
cesses shall be such that some of the organs shall knowledge 
not be made to do double work. As a rule, the o^ digee- 
stomach is the overworked organ. The organs of 
digestion are the alimentary canal, and several sets of glands, 
which produce the digestive fluids. 

The Alimentary Canal consists of five parts— the mouth, 
esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 
There are four digestive fluids— saliva, gastric juice, bile, and 
pancreatic juice. 

The Saliva, which is formed in the mouth, acts on starchy 
changing some of it to sugar and dextrine. 

16 



226 HOME ECONOMICS 

Gastric Tnice, which is produced by the lining membrane 
of the stomach, acts upon albuminous matter, and is thought 
not to act upon any other food principle. 

Bile, which is one of the products of the liver, neutralizes 
the acidity of the partially digested food as it passes out of 
the stomach. It also acts upon the fats. 

Pancreatic Juice.— This is the most important of the four 
digestive fluids, for it acts upon all the food principles. 

The Process of Digestion is, briefly, this: 

1. The food is ground to fine particles in the mouth, and 
in the process of mastication it is mixed with saliva, which 
acts on starch, but on no other substance. It is, however, 
a valuable aid in making the food pass through the esopha- 
gus with ease. 

2. The food enters the stomach, and is rolled about by the 
muscular contraction of the coat of the stomach. In this 
way it is broken up, and every part brought in contact with 
the gastric juice. The gastric juice acts on albuminous 
matter, but on no other food principle. It dissolves the albu- 
min in meat, bread, vegetables, etc., leaving the starch and 
fats free. Some of the perfectly digested food is absorbed 
in the stomach, but the greater portion passes into the small 
intestine in an acid, semi-liquid mass; this is called chyme. 

3. The bile and pancreatic juice mix with the chyme, con- 
verting the starch into sugar, the fats into a fine emulsion, 
and dissolve any albuminous substance that was not digested 
by the gastric juice. This new product is called chyle, and 
is absorbed by the villi, and so passes into the circulation. 

From this brief sketch it will be seen that 

sity of thorough mastication is necessary, that the starch 

thorough may be acted upon by the saliva, and that the 

"*2otu*" ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ ^^ finely divided that parts will sep- 
arate easily and the gastric juice may begin its 
legitimate work at once. 
When the food is not properly masticated the stomach 



FOOD 227 

powers are wasted, in breaking it up, before the real work 
of digestion begins. 

In the preparation of food the fact must be kept in mind 
that the gastric juice acts only on albuminous matter. If 
fats, starch, and albumin are so intimately com- 
bined that the stomach powers are taxed with jjd^tou 
the task of separating them, it will be putting a only on ai- 
burden of work on this organ that will weaken it '^J^^l'** 
in time. It is for this reason that fried food, 
pastry, etc., are so diflScult of digestion, especially when badly 
cooked. All albuminous food should be cooked so that 
the fibers are softened rather than hardened. Digestion 

Raw starch is hardly acted upon by the diges- ^ starch 
tive fluids, and passes out of the system nearly "^ 
the same as it entered. The more thoroughly it is cooked, 
the more easily it is digested. 

Fat that has not been cooked, or that was cooked at a 
low temperature, as, for example, butter, oils, the fat on 
boiled meats, etc., are easily digested, if not taken in too 
large a quantity. Filling the stomach with liquids while 
eating dilutes the gastric juice and so weakens its action on 
food. 

Too much food in the stomach at once inter- Conditions 
feres with digestion. Excessive fatigue, anger, andnnfa^ 
worry, anxiety, etc., all have a tendency to stop vorabie to 
the flow of gastric juice, and hence interfere with °^®*^^* 
digestion. It should be the duty and pleasure of every one 
to make the hours at table social, bright, and happy, and thus 
lay up a store of physical and mental health for the serious 
work of life. 

FRUITS 

With the exception of nuts, the nutritive value of fresh 
fruits is not great, but as a regulator of the system they are 
exceedingly valuable. Dried fruits, like dried vegetables, 



228 HOME ECONOMICS 

are richer in nutrients than the fresh, bnt they do not have 
the same refreshing powers that the fresh, juicy fruit has. 
Fruits, when eaten under-ripe or over-ripe, disarrange the 
digestive organs. 

Nearly all fruits are best when allowed to ripen on the 
tree or vine. Pears are an exception to this. 

Fruit keeps best in a cool, dry, dark place. It 
mndhaw ^ necessary to examine stored fruit frequently, 
flwjihaald because decay is contagious. 
JJjI^ Fresh fruits differ in their effects upon the 

digestive organs. For most people pears, apples, 
plums, and grapes are a laxative, while peaches and straw- 
berries have an opposite effect. These properties are very 
much modified by cooking. Except fruit be ripe enough, 
and not over-ripe, it is in a more healthful condition cooked. 
There are a few points in regard to fruits which every 
housekeeper should know. 

Some fruits require very little sugar in cooking, while 

there are others that are very poor if a good deal of sugar 

is not used. Some of the fruits that require a 

titjofn^ good deal of sugar are strawberries, cranberries, 

andito plums, tart apples, currants, and gooseberries. 

""ftStT The fruits that are better with only a very little 

or moderate amount of sugar are raspberries, 

blackberries, peaches, pears, quinces, etc. Nearly all fruits 

are of better color and flavor, and of a more tender texture, 

if the sugar is added when they are first put on to cook. 

Hard fruits, such as quinces, must be made tender in 

clear water before the sugar is added. Some fruits will be 

improved by long cooking, while others would be spoiled by 

Method of *^^® process. Fruits that will endure long, slow 

cooking cooking will not as a rule require as much sugar as 

*^ those that must be cooked quickly. The dried fruits, 

such as peaches, apricots, and apples, if cooked 

long enough, will require very little sugar. Prunes should 



FOOD 229 

never have sugar added to them. Wash all dried fruit care- 
fully, and cover generously with cold water. Let it soak 
overnight. In the morning put it on to cook in the water 
in which it was soaked. Add the sugar, if any is used, and 
cook slowly two or more hours. A good way is to put the 
fruit and liquid in an earthen dish which can be covered. 
Bake in a very moderate oven. 

The proportions of water and dried fruit are, to one pint 
of fruit one pint and a half of water. 

Prunes are better not soaked. Wash them one by one, 
then rinse in two more waters. Put them in a stew-pan, 
with a pint and a half of cold water to each pint of fruit. 
Let them simmer for two hours and a half. Turn them 
into a bowl, and set away to cool. They are delicious 
cooked in this manner. 

PATS 

Some fat is necessary to the maintenance of a perfectly 
healthy body. We get it in small quantities throughout 
the lean parts of meat, and in all good meat there is a 
generous layer of fat between the skin and the muscular 
parts. Some of this coating of fat should be left on the 
meat when it is put on to cook. 

I think that, as a rule, we do not attach enough impor- 
tance to the temperature at which we cook fats, nor do we 
know enough about the temperature at which the 
different fats will bum or be so changed as to be ^J^f 
irritants in the digestive organs. tempera- 

It is safe to say that the lower the temperature ^^^^ 
at which a fat can be cooked and have the flavor are cooked, 
developed, the more easily it will be digested. 
We all know how cooking changes the flavor of butter, sev- 
eral of the volatile acids which contribute to its flavor being 
broken up and driven off. 



230 HOME ECONOMICS 

The flavor of the ordinary fats is improved by proper 
cooking; but if the temperature be raised too high, an irri- 
tating, fatty acid is developed, as witness the difference 
between a delicate brown, crisp piece of fat on a roast and 
the disagreeable acrid flavor of the fat which has been sub- 
jected to a high temperature. 

When there is water mixed with fat it cannot be raised to 

as high a temperature as if the fat were pure. It is for this 

reason that we put water in the dripping-pan, and 

j^j^ baste the meat frequently with the mixture of 

with fiit water and fat. This keeps the temperature of 

tem*ra- ^^® surface of the piece of meat lower than it 

ture low. would otherwise be, and the digestibility of the 

roast is infinitely greater than it would be if it 

were basted with the clear hot fat that dropped from the 

meat. 

In all kitchens more or less frying is done, and it is im- 
portant that it should be done properly. 

Putting a substance to cook in a pan with half an inch or 
more of fat is the most unhealthful and extravagant mode 
of cooking. The portions of the food that are 
easily, eo^ exposed to a current of air are kept at such a low 
nomioaliy, temperature that they absorb the fat. 
"^fuUy. ' '^^ f^ economically, healthfully, and with the 
least possible amount of work, it is necessary to 
have fat enough to immerse the article. Then, too, it is 
essential that you know the qualities of the fats and make 
a proper selection; and, again, that you know the tempera- 
ture at which different articles cook and at which the differ- 
ent fats burn. 

The purer the fat— that is to say, the more oil there is 
in it— the higher the degree to which it can be raised with- 
out burning. 

Butter burns at the lowest temperature, and olive-oil at 
the highest. 



FOOD 231 

Here is a table of the burning-points of the fats most 
commonly employed for frying purposes: 

F. 

Butter 266° Tempera- 

Beef, veal, and mutton suet 302° which dif- 

Drippings, i. c, the fat from soups, roasts, ferentfata 

etc., clarified 336° *^"'- 

Goose-grease 500° 

Lard 392° 

Olive-oil 608° 

It will be seen from this table that butter is the poorest 
material, and olive-oil the best, for frying purposes. 

Butter can, by clarifying, be made to stand a higher tem- 
perature than 266°. This is done by heating the butter 
slowly, skimming it, and letting it rest on the fire 
until the casein has coagulated and fallen to the ^^^ 
bottom, then pouring off the clear oily substance. butter. 
The French prepare their butter in this manner 
for sautering and frying. Salt raises the temperature and 
causes the butter to burn. It should be washed out of but- 
ter that is to be used in sautering or frying. The French 
mix lard with butter for frying purposes. 

It will be seen that, next to butter, the suet from beef, 
mutton, and veal burns at a low temperature. 

Drippings, because they are the most liquid parts of the 
fats of roasted and boiled meats, have a larger proportion of 
oil than either suet or butter, and therefore burn at a higher 
temperature. A combination of drippings and lard is the 
most satisfactory. Many persons object to lard on the score 
of its being a product of pork; but it is certainly more health- 
ful for frying purposes than the suets, because it can be 
heated to a higher temperature, searing the article at once, 
and thus giving a food comparatively free from grease. 

In heating fat for frying, one must always consider the 



232 HOME EqONOMIGS 

nature of the article to be fried. For example, a tempera- 
ture that would be right for breaded fish, oysters, or cro- 
quettes would bum the outside of doughnuts, 
oiSm fritters, or any batter, while the inside remained 
artLdetobe raw. Again, it must be remembered that a very 
nnlBte^ cold or watery article will lower the temperature 
the tern- quickly, and only a small portion should be put in 

JX*flS."^ at a time. 

This is especially true of fish, because some of 

the water escapes into the fat during the cooking. 

When frying fish, fish-balls, egg-plant, or any watery 
article, it will generally be found that after the second batch 
has been cooked the fat will be full of bubbles of steam, and 
will no longer fry an article crisp and brown. The fat must 
be kept hot until every particle of water has evaporated. 
Then it will do its work as well as ever. 

If one attempts to fry in fat that is saturated with water, 
the product will be a grease-soaked article, which is not fit 
for the stomach of man or beast. 

Great care is required to keep fat in a good condition. 
Here is a rule that, if followed, will secure good results: 
Bole for 1- The moment you have finished frying, set 
oareof fiy- the kettle back in a cooler place; do not wait an 
^ mstant. 

2. If water gets into the fat, cook it gently until all 
motion ceases. 

3. If the fat gets too hot before you are ready to use it, 
put in a handful of raw sliced potatoes. 

4. If there is a good deal of foreign substance in it, add 
two or three raw potatoes cut in slices. 

5. When cool, but still in liquid, strain through cheese- 
cloth. 

.6. Keep a separate fat for fish. 

How to Determine the Temperature of Fat— l. For all 
breaded meats, a faint blue smoke rising from the center, 



FOOD 233 

and a suggestion of a movement on the surface; it is like a 
pencil-mark. 

2. For fried potatoes, a very little stronger smoke. 

3. For fish and watery articles, a still stronger smoke. 
How to Use the Various Kitchen Fats.— In all kitchens 

there is a certain amount of fats which must be disposed 
of in some way. 

All the fat from beef, veal, pork, and chickens can be 
used in cooking. They should be rendered carefully, not 
allowing them to get too hot. Strain them through j^q^^j^j^ 
cheese-cloth, and keep for use in frying or in pre- the various 
paring many of the soups or ragouts that call for ^pi^^ 
butter. 

The fat from bacon, ham, and sausages can be used for 
frying potatoes and hominy. These fats can be used instead 
of butter in some of the savory sauces made for vegetables. 

The fat from mutton, lamb, turkey, duck, and goose goes 
into the soap-grease, being too strong-flavored to use in 
cooking. 

It is well to have a cake of mutton tallow to use on 
' chapped hands and on rusted articles, and also to save a 
bottle of clear goose-oil to use in case of sickness. 

All fats used for frying should be thoroughly clarified. 
To clarify fat, keep it at a gentle heat until there is not a 
bubble to be seen, and all sediment has fallen to 
the bottom, leaving a clear oil. Strain this, and oiarify&ts. 
keep in a dry, cool place. 

If the fat which has been used in frying has become dark, 
put it in a stew-pan with several quarts of water, and heat 
it to the boiling-point; then pour it into a large pan, and 
add several quarts of cold water. Set in a cold place. 
When the fat has f orme^ in a cake on top of the water, take 
off and put into the frying-pan. Heat gently, and cook 
until it has ceased to bubble and the sediment has fallen to 
the bottom. Partially cool, and strain. Remember that as 



234 HOME EGONOMIGS 

long as there is a bubble there is water, and the fat will not 
answer for frying while it contains water, nor will it keep 
well. 

Solid pieces of fat, like the trimmings of beef, mutton, 
veal, pork, etc., should be cut in small pieces and rendered 
with a gentle heat. 

Take as much care in rendering and straining the soap- 
grease as that for cooking purposes. , 

Mutton fat makes the hardest and whitest soap, but all 
kinds can be used. 

Butter absorbs odors more readily than any 
^® "^^l*^ other fat. Owing to the water, buttermilk, and 

ter. other substances left in it, it often becomes ran- 
cid. If the butter be thoroughly washed in lime- 
water, and then rinsed in clear water, it will become sweet 
again. Sometimes a little chloride of lime is used instead 
of quicklime. 

PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE COOKING OF ALBUMINOUS 

SUBSTANCES 

Albuminous matter is of various kinds, and is found in 
animal and vegetable substances. In their natural condi- 
tion some of the albumins are liquid, some are solid, and 
there are others that have a consistency between the two. 

Coagulation is one of the properties of albumin. Different 
kinds of albumin solidify under different conditions, but heat 
has the power of coagulating nearly all albuminous 
The coagu- substances. 

lation of 

albumin. Only a small portion of the casein of milk co- 
agulates when subjected to heat; but if the milk 
be heated to 100° and an acid is added, it will coagulate, as 
is the case when we make rennet custard. This solidified 
mass will be soft, creamy, and digestible. 

If the milk is raised to the boiling-point, and the acid 



POOD 235 

added, the albumin will be coagulated, but the product will 
be quite different from that obtained by adding the acid to 
the milk at 100°. The higher temperature hardens the 
albumin, which separates from the water, thus giving a 
curd and whey. The longer the cooking is continued at this 
high temperature, the tougher the curd will become, and 
the clearer the whey. 

The fibrin in the blood coagulates on exposure to the air, 
and also when subjected to heat. The albumin in lean meat 
and in the white of an egg coagulates on exposure to heat. 

Albuminous substances, when cooked at a temperature 
below the boiling-point, will be soft and digestible. When 
cooked at a temperature of 212° or higher, the albumin be- 
comes hard and indigestible. The purer the albumin, the 
more marked is this condition. 

To illustrate this, we will take milk and eggs. When we 

make a curd and whey, we always find that the curd made 

with skim-milk is much tougher than that made ^g^ ^^ 

with whole milk; if a little cream is added to the eggs taken 

milk the curd will be still softer. Thus cheese ^ show the 

effect of 

made with skim-milk is hard; that made with tompera- 
whole milk is richer and softer; and that made ^^^^ 
with whole milk and some cream is still softer. 

We boil an egg hard, and break it up. The white will be 
hard and horny, while the yolk will be light and crumbly. 
The white of an egg is almost pure albumin, while the yolk 
contains nearly twice as much fatty matter as it does 
albumin; hence it does not harden into a solid mass like the 
white. 

Albuminous substance in lean meat is always mixed with 
fatty matter, and the more fat there is, the less hard will 
become the albumin when exposed to a high temperature. 
It must be remembered, however, that the fat in the yolk of 
an egg and in milk is in the form of an emulsion, while in 
lean meat it is in separate layers. 



236 HOME ECONOMICS 

The eflfect of cooking upon meat is to coagulate the 
albumin and fibrin, and to gelatinize the tendons and con- 
nective tissue, and it also develops flavor. 

Two other characteristics of albuminous matter are the 

tendencies to fermentation and putrefaction. The conditions 

necessary for these changes are heat and mois- 

denoyofta- ^ure. When the temperature reaches 200° or 

bnminous more, fermentation or putrefaction ceases. I do 

toferm^' ^^^ know at what point below 200° fermentation 

tation and or putrefaction begins, but I am quite sure that 

^^tiMt"" ^* would not be safe to keep any animal substance 

for several hours in a closed vessel below 170°. 

I speak of this matter now, so that when the question of 

slow cooking comes up, it may be fully understood that it 

must not be too slow. 

The effect of heat on albuminous as on all other substances 
is not only to effect a change in the texture, but also in the 
flavor. As a rule, the higher the temperature, the more 
pronounced the flavor. This development of flavor is quite 
important, as it makes the food more appetizing, and one 
should aim to cook at such a temperature that the best 
flavors shall be developed, and yet that the albuminous sub- 
stance shall not be made hard and indigestible. 

Test to "^^ ^^^^ ^^® effect of heat on nearly pure albu- 

show e£B»et min, let us take three fresh eggs and cook them 
of temper- g^^ different temperatures. 

atnre on -^ 

teztnieand Have a deep saucepan that will hold one pint or 
Shtmai^ less. Put ouo egg in the cold saucepan, and pour 
over it half a pint of boiling water; cover and place 
on a board or paper, away from the fire, for ten minutes. In 
a few seconds the cold saucepan and the egg will have ab- 
sorbed twenty-two degrees of heat from the water, leaving 
it at 190°, and of course the temperatuire will continue to 
fall in the ten minutes that the egg is cooking. 

Have a second saucepan, in which boil half a pint of 



POOD 237 

water; put an egg into this boiling water, and immediately 
place the saucepan, covered, by the side of the first. In a 
few seconds the temperature of the water will have fallen to 
200°, the egg having absorbed twelve degrees of heat. Let 
this egg cook ten minutes. 

Put the third egg in a saucepan of boiling water, and let 
it boil for ten minutes. Then open all three eggs and put 
them on a plate. Examine the texture, then taste for the 
flavor, using butter and salt, if you like. All three eggs 
were cooked ten minutes. One stood after a few seconds 
with a temperature of 190°, which continued to lower until 
the egg was removed from the water. The white of this egg 
is a thick, soft curd, the yolk very liquid. There is not much 
flavor, except a suggestion of rawness. The second egg, 
that was dropped into the boiling water which fell after a 
few seconds to a temperature of 200°, has a pleasanter flavor, 
the white is firmer, but it breaks up into a soft mass under 
slight pressure; the yolk is slightly thickened. This is an 
ideally soft-cooked egg. The third egg, which went into the 
boiling water and boiled all the time (212°), is what is com- 
monly called a hard-boiled egg. The white is a smooth, 
hard mass; being almost pure albumin, there is nothing to 
keep its particles soft when exposed to the temperature of 
boiling water. The yolk of the egg is firm and mealy. 

This experiment teaches us (1) that pure albumin coagu- 
lates at a low temperature (the average is about 165°), but 
that little flavor is developed; (2) that at a little higher tem- 
perature (average about 180°) the albumin, although a little 
firmer, is still soft and digestible, and is better flavored; (3) 
that when cooked at a temperature of 212° or more the 
albumin becomes hard, horny, and indigestible. 

If all albuminous substances which we cook were as free 
from admixtures as the white of egg, we could say that the 
temperature for cooking should be 180°. But we have few 
substances which are thus pure. 



238 HOME ECONOMICS 

In cooking meat, it must be remembered that, besides the 
albumin, we are dealing also with tendons and connective 
What to ^^ss^® (^®® "Muscular Fiber"), which require a 
remember higher temperature to soften and dissolve them. 
in cooting About 202*^ gives the best result as to the texture 
and tenderness of meat cooked in water. 
When a bubble of air or steam darts up from the bottom 
of the stew-pan every few seconds, the temperature of the 
water is at about 202°. This is called gentle sim- 
^OTingrT' niering, or, as the French say, a "modest smile.'* 
All boiled or stewed meats should be cooked at 
this temperature. This rule applies to all salted meats, 
such as beef, pork, hams, tongues, etc., all fresh meats, poul- 
try, and fish. 

In roasting, broiling, braizing, etc., all meats should be 

cooked as near as possible at the simmering temperature. 

It is important, however, that fresh meat or poul- 

TOies fti *^ should be hardened on the surface, that the 

roasting, juices may be retained in the meat. To do this 

^^?^» there must be a high temperature at first. As 

'^' 8oon as a thin crust is f omed the temperature 

should be lowered. 

All animal and vegetable food is more healthful when 

cooked in such a manner that some of the gases which are 

formed in cooking may pass off; therefore the stew-pans 

should never be covered closely. 

In roasting, the piece of meat should never rest on the 
bottom of the pan. A steel or wire rack should be placed in 
the pan, and the meat should rest on this. Meat should 
never be basted with the clear hot fat that drops into the 
pan; a piece of meat that has been saturated in this manner 
with hot fat must be indigestible. Always have a little water 
in the pan to mingle with the drippings. The water keeps the 
temperature of the fat low, and meat cooked in an oven is 
improved by being basted with such a mixture. If the 



FOOD 239 

foregoing principles are fully understood, and the following 
general rules are followed, one can be sure of having all 
animal food as tender and succulent as the quality of the 
meat will admit. 

Note.— If a ham be taken from the boiling liquid and 
plunged at once into cold water,— ice-water is best,— the fat 
hardens white and firm, giving the meat a fine color. 

Boiled Meats.— Put the piece of meat or poultry into 
boiling water, and boil rapidly fifteen or twenty minutes; 
then place the stew-pan where the water will bubble gently 
until the meat is done. The time of cooking depends upon 
the kind of meat, the toughness, etc. Fresh beef, when 
required to be well done, should cook about five hours; 
corned beef, tongue, ham, five hours. Should the piece of 
beef or ham weigh over ten or twelve pounds, allow an extra 
hour; it will take an hour for the heat to penetrate to the 
center of a large, solid piece of meat. For fresh meat that is 
to be served rare, like mutton and beef, the time depends 
upon the shape; a thin piece requires less time than a thick 
piece. A leg of mutton weighing ten pounds will be cooked 
rare in an hour and a half; medium well done in two hours. 

Fowl not very old will cook in an hour and a half; but a 
tough one may take two or three hours. A turkey weighing 
ten pounds should cook three hours and a half. 

The cover of the saucepan should be drawn a little to one 
Bide, all through the cooking, to allow the escape of steam 
and gases. 

Hams, tongues, corned beef, and poultry, that are not to 
be served hot, are all improved by partially cooling in the 
water in which they were boiled. The saucepan must be set 
in a cool place (in a current of air, if possible), and the 
cover must be removed. The more rapidly and thoroughly 
the cooling is done, the better the meat and broth will keep. 

Eoasting.— Have the meat exposed to a high temperature 
for the first half-hour, then reduce the heat. It must be 



240 HOME ECONOMICS 

remembered that when meat or any other substance is 
cooked in a liquid which covers it, the temperature of the 
article being cooked is always that of the liquid 
tiure more ^^ which it is cooking. In roasting and broiling, 
constant in the waves of heat are always being diluted with 
^^^^^ air at various temperatures. This must be taken 
into account when cooking in the oven, or be- 
fore, over, or under the fire. It would not be possible to 
roast perfectly in an oven that registered 202°. The tem- 
perature should be about 350° when the meat is first put in. 
As soon as the meat is browned on all sides the temperature 
should be lowered by the closing of the drafts, and, if need 
be, the opening of the checks; but, as a rule, the closing of 
the drafts will be sufiicient. Basting the meat frequently 
with the drippings in the pan will drive the heat to the 
center and make the meat juicy. 

Broiling.— The same principle must be applied to broiling 
as to roasting: first great heat to sear the surface, then slow 
cooking. A steak or chop cut an inch thick should cook for 
two minutes close to the fire, then eight minutes drawn a 
little distance from the fire. The meat must be turned fre- 
quently. This time and method give a steak or chop of 
medium rareness. 

Stewing and Braizing.— All meats stewed and braized 
should be treated like boiled meats: first great heat, then a 
gentle simmering. 

Frying.— The least objectionable and most economical 
method of frying is to immerse the article to be cooked in a 
bath of hot fat. Frying is the least healthful of all methods 
of cooking, and should be employed sparingly. 

Ksh.— The principles underlying the cooking of meats 
are the same for fish. Salt fish should never boil. 

Mutton should always have the thin skin that comes next 
to the fat removed before cooking, as this is what gives th» 
strong, disagreeable flavor to the meat. 



FOOD 241 



PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE COOKING OF VEGETABLE 

SUBSTANCES 

The vegetable foods are divided into four general classes 
—cereals, legumes, tubers, and green vegetables. 

Cereals,— Under this head are included all the grains- 
wheat, oats, rye, barley, Indian corn, rice, etc. 

Legnuues.— Pease, beans, and lentils belong to this class. 

Tubers.— To this class belong potatoes, turnips, carrots, 
beets, parsnips, etc. 

Green Vegetables.— The leaves, stalks, and green, tender 
pods of vegetables come under this head. 

Vegetable Fruits and Flowers.— Cucumbers, squash, egg- 
plant, tomatoes, etc., are sometimes called vegetable fruit. 
The flowers of some vegetables, such as cauliflower and* 
French artichoke, are the parts of the vegetable used. 

Vegetables vary in their composition, some having a large 
proportion of water, while in others it is small. In green 
and moist vegetables the percentage of water is high. In the 
cereals and legumes it is low. 

Starch goes to make up a large percentage of some vege- 
tables, while others contain none. All the cereals, legumes, 
potatoes, etc., belong to the first class. Carrots, 
turnips, onions, Jerusalem artichokes, beets, and ues^ttatdo 
tomatoes belong to the second class. In nearly and do not 
all the plants that contain starch there is also ^Jj^ 
found a slight trace of dextrine. Small as is the 
amount of dextrine, it exercises an influence on the flavor 
of properly cooked starchy foods. 

The starch in a plant consists of granules, which are en- 
veloped in a thin membrane. No matter how fine the flour 
may be, a large proportion of the starch grains are still 
protected by this membrane, which must be broken before 

the real cooking of the starch begins. Moisture and a high 
i« 



242 HOME ECONOMICS 

temperature are necessary to the perfect cooking of starch. 
Potatoes, green com, and other moist vegetables supply the 
moisture for cooking their starch; but the dry cereals and 
legumes must be supplied with the necessary moisture. The 
effect of heat on starch is to swell the grains, causing them 
to burst through their thin sacks. A good illustration of 
this is pop-corn. 

If there is a plenty of moisture the starch grains absorb 

it, as, for example, when a starchy substance is first put into 

a boiling liquid it begins to thicken immediately, 

^^^^ ®'a provided the substance is ground fine, as in the 

starch, case of corn-starch; if the cooking is continued 
for twenty minutes or half an hour,. with the 
cover on the stew-pan to prevent evaporation, the mixture 
grows thinner rather than thicker— that is, the starch be- 
comes dissolved and grainy; when subjected to long cook- 
ing at a high temperature, a portion of the starch is changed 
into dextrine, then sugar— hence the sweeter taste in well- 
baked bread or any starchy substance when subjected to long 
cooking at a high temperature. Some kinds of starch be- 
come more transparent than others when cooked; this is nota- 
bly the case with arrowroot. 

When starch is subjected to a temperature of 320° or 
more, some portion of it is changed to dextrine, and this, in 
turn, is changed to sugar, if the cooking is continued long 
enough, under the right conditions. For example, when we 
make a cream sauce by first cooking flour in hot fat, and 
then adding milk to it, if the sauce is used at once it will be 
smooth and free from a sweet taste; but let it cook for some 
time, and it becomes sweet, as if sugar had been added to it. 
When there is a trace of dextrine in the starchy food, as is 
the case in wheat, potatoes, etc., the long cooking changes 
the dextrine to sugar, thus giving a peculiar nutty flavor to 
bread, mush, and vegetables. 

The digestive juices have little action on starch in the raw 



POOD 243 

state; if taken into the system in that form, it causes de- 
rangement of the alimentary canal, and the greater part 
passes out unchanged. So it is very important that this 
substance be properly cooked, that it may be palatable and 
digestible. 

Note.— Church says: "It has been found that uncooked 
starch from Indian corn may be completely turned into sugar 
by the action of the saliva in 3 minutes, oat-starch in 6 
minutes, wheat-starch in 40 minutes, and potato-starch in 3 
hours, the quantities, etc., being the same in each case. But 
after thorough cooking, all starches require nearly the same 
time." 

Flour, corn-starch, etc., cook much quicker than the 
coarser meals. This is because the starchy particles are 
broken up so much finer that the heat and moisture reach 
them quickly. It is for this reason that Graham bread must 
cook so much longer than the loaf made with fine wheat flour. 
A mush or gruel made with fine flour will cook in much less 
time than that made with the coarser meals. 

All cereals should be stirred into boiling water, and they 
should boil. Salt should not be added at first, because it 
hardens the cellulose or woody envelops. When cooking 
starchy foods it is important that one should know what 
result is desired at the end of the process. For example, do 
we want the article cooked just long enough to swell and 
burst the starch granules, or do we want the process to go 
further and change the character of the article from a com- 
paratively light, dry mass to a moist, gummy one? 

We have seen that the first effect of heat on Conditions 
the starch granules is to make them swell and ^^^^eY°" 
burst through their envelop. When we cook po- light, dry, 
tatoes, rice, pop-corn, dumplings, etc., the aim is ®' * ™°"^ 
to have these dishes light and dry; therefore the tide, 
cooking should stop as soon as the starch granules 
have burst. If the cooking continues in moisture, the starch 



244 HOME ECONOMICS 

absorbs the moisture and the article becomes soggy and heavy. 
If, on the contrary, we want the starch to dissolve, we cook 
it a long time in plenty of liquid, as when we bake a little 
rice and a great deal of milk together for two or three 
hours. The result is a thick, creamy, delicious mass. 

Among the varieties of vegetable food, the most important 
are the cereals, and of all the cereals wheat is the most 

valuable. It has the largest proportion of nitrog- 
'^^J^fj^ enous principle of any of the grains commonly 

used in bread-making. In the form of properly 
made and baked bread, wheat gives one of the most health- 
ful and satisfying nutriments. There are hundreds of 
methods of making bread, and the different forms and 
textures give a pleasant variety; but taken day after day 
and year after year, there is no form of bread which is 
so satisfactory as the loaf that is made with flour, water, 
salt, yeast, and possibly a little butter to make it tender, 
and also a little sugar to help fermentation. A table- 
spoonful of sugar to four quarts of flour will be suflicient 
for this. The fermentation should go on only long enough 
to make the bread so light as to break up readily in mas- 
tication. The loaves should be in such a form that the 
heat will penetrate to the center readily and quickly, and 
each loaf should be baked long enough to cook the starch 
thoroughly and give a rich brown, nutty-flavored crust. The 
secret of the French bread lies in the fact that the dough is 
worked without the use of much dry flour; it is not allowed 
to rise much; the loaves give as much crust as crumb, and 
they are baked in well-ventilated brick ovens until a rich, 
thick crust is formed. However, the French loaf is good 
only the first or second day; this is because the kneading is 
not enough to make the dough smooth and fine-grained. The 
more dough is kneaded, the finer and closer grained will be 
the loaf; the bread will be more tender and will keep soft 
longer than a loaf which has had but little kneading. 



V 



POOD 245 

The leguminous seeds, such as beans, pease^ and lentils, 
are richer than any other vegetables in nitrogenous princi- 
ples, and, with the addition of fat, they may 
take the place of meat in the dietary, but un- Jf^'^^^jT 
less cooked with care are quite indigestible, tive valne. 
No matter what the mode of cooking, it must 
always be rather long and at a low temperature. This is 
true even of the fresh or green beans; still, when fresh, the 
time for cooking should not be more than one third or one 
half of that required for the dry bean. Pease, when dried, 
require long, slow cooking, but when fresh-picked will cook 
quickly. Lentils require about the same treatment as dried 
beans. The dried beans and pease, pound for pound, are 
much richer in food values than the fresh vegetables, but 
require great care in cooking, that the tough skin may be 
made tender. The French prepare these vegetables in purge, 
that they may be more easy of digestion by the removal of 
the tough envelops. 

Fresh beans and pease should be cooked in boiling water, 
and boiled gently, with the cover partially off the saucepan 
to allow the steam to escape. They should not be allowed 
to over-cook. The time of cooking will depend upon how 
young and fresh they are. 

Dried beans and pease should be soaked in cold water for 
eight or more hours. They should he rinsed in fresh water, 
and put on to cook in cold water. They should ^^^ ^ 
simmer gently, with the cover partially off the eook dried 
saucepan, until they are tender. Rapid boiling, ^*®*^* *°* 
with the cover on the saucepan, removes and 
hardens the outer envelop, breaks up the beans, and pro- 
duces a dark, strong-flavored, indigestible vegetable. If 
a little washing-soda is added to the water in which dried 
beans or pease are soaked, the strong flavor will be partially 
removed and the vegetable will be more tender. Use a piece 
of soda about the size of a pea for each quart of water. 



u 



246 HOME EOONOmCS 

Taberoiu Vegetables.— Nearly all vegetables of this class 
are watery. Some have a good deal of sugar and no starch, 
while others, as the potato, contain a great deal of starch. 
All these vegetables should be washed very clean, and pared 
or scraped. If potatoes are liked cooked in their "jackets," 
they should be pared at the ends, and a narrow strip of the 
skin taken from the middle of the potato. This is to allow 
the gases to escape. Baked potatoes, if pierced when half 
done with a sharp fork or skewer, will be more digestible than 
if an outlet were not made for the gases to escape. 

Carrots, parsnips, and salsify should always be scraped, 
never pared. In old carrots the heart is hard and woody, 
and unfit for food; only the tender outside layer should 
be used. In new carrots the heart is tender, and should 
be used. It is important that all these vegetables should be 
cooked until tender, but no longer. Over-cooking causes 
them to become strong-flavored and indigestible. 

Green Vegetables.— Green vegetables have not the nutri- 
tive value found in the grains and most of the tubers, but 
they are valuable because of the phosphates and other salts 
and acids which they contain, and which the human body 
demands. They also fill an important part in the human 
economy by supplying a food which dilutes, as it were, the 
more highly concentrated foods, such as meats, fish, eggs, 
etc. If it were not for the use of the vegetables, we should 
eat too much of the more stimulating foods. Finally, the 
variety which they supply to our tables is one of their chief 
blessings. 

Fresh vegetables require great care in their preparation, 
that they may be made digestible, and yet retain the greater 

How the P^^* ^^ ^^^^ mineral constituents. The French 
French people are much more scientific in their prepara- 

^^^taUM *^^^ ^^ fresh and green vegetables than we are. 

Where it is possible, they cook them in very little 

or no water. They blanch nearly all green vegetables before 



POOD 247 

proceeding with the cooking proper. This is done to re- 
move any strong or bitter taste, and to make green vegeta- 
bles greener, and the white or light tubers whiter. 

The vegetables are cleaned, well washed, and drained. 
They are then put into a stew-pan full of boiling water, and 
boiled for more or less time, depending upon the 
vegetable. The vegetable is then poured into a ^^ ^^ 
colander, and cold water is poured over it. Then blanched, 
the cooking proceeds. . Usually spinach, lettuce, 
sorrel, etc., are put in a thin piece of cloth, and the water is 
pressed from them. They are then put back on the fire, with 
butter and seasonings and sometimes a little bouillon, and 
are simmered gently until done— spinach about half an hour. 

For such vegetables as carrots, turnips, celery, onions, 
etc., a sauce is often made in which they are simmered. 
Sometimes these vegetables are first glazed, that is, fried in 
butter until brown; then a little sugar is added, and they are 
cooked a few minutes longer. This gives a rich-flavored and 
savory vegetable. 

Many of the tuberous vegetables, when new and fresh, are 
cooked without any liquid. The small new potato is pared 
and washed, then put in a broad-bottomed stew- 
pan, with butter or some other fat, and cooked vegetables, 
over a moderate fire until done. The new pota- 
toes, which are about the size of a large marble, cook in 
about twelve or fifteen minutes; the stew-pan is often shaken 
to turn the potatoes. Young carrots are cooked in the same 
manner, except that they are sliced, and butter, sugar, and 
salt are added to them. It is a delicious dish, and extremely 
healthy. Turnips are cooked in the same manner. Young 
green pease are cooked with tender leaves of lettuce, salt, 
pepper, butter, and sugar. Small white onions and fine herbs 
are sometimes cooked with them. When the pease are not 
so tender, or are canned, a little water or bouillon is added 
to them, barely enough to cover them. 






248 HOME ECONOMICS 

The French cook uses a great deal of butter in the cook- 
ing of vegetables. Sometimes sweet drippings are substi- 
tuted, and, again, a little fresh pork is employed. The most 
delicious soups are made with a combination of vegetables, 
herbs, water, butter or other fat, and salt and pepper. There 
is hardly a vegetable which is not used, either cooked or raw, 
in salad, the usual dressing being one third or fourth vine- 
gar, and two thirds or three fourths oil, with, of course, salt 
and pepper. For the bean salads, mustard is sometimes 
used. When it is possible, the French housekeeper has her 
little dish of garniture for her salad, which consists of eer- 
feuU (chervil), parsley, dbotde (a young onion), and tarragon. 
This garniture is added to the vegetables before the oil and 
vinegar. 

It is not possible to give the exact time for cooking fresh 

vegetables, because so much depends upon the vegetable 

itself, the time it has been picked, the degree of 

^^^^ maturity, and whether it grew quickly or slowly. 

green We all know that in cold seasons asparagus and 

iwmewhlu ^^"^ ^^® ^^*'^ ^^^^ ^^^ unsatisfactory, for these 
dependent two vegetables demand quick growth to be ten- 

n^ ^'mSi ^^^' ^^ * ^^^* ^^ season pease, beans, and nearly 
tendemese. ^U the green vegetables are rather hard and tough. 
The slow growth that comes from a cold season 
makes these vegetables also less tender. Vegetables that 
have been picked long enough to wilt will not be tender un- 
less the freshness and crispness have been restored by the 
use of cold water. Lettuce and asparagus can be kept fresh 
by standing the root ends in a pan of cold water. All herbs 
should have the stem ends placed in cold water. Potatoes, 
turnips, carrots, string-beans, spinach, and other green vege- 
tables can be made crisp and fresh by soaking in cold water 
for several hours. 

All fresh vegetables should be perfectly crisp before 
being put into boiling water. The water should be boiling 



FOOD 249 

when fresh vegetables are put into it, and kept boiling 
gently all the time the vegetable is cooking. If the stew- 
pan is only partially covered, the vegetables will 
be greener and of better flavor than if covered ocmdit^of 
closely. Too long cooking darkens the vegetable fresh vege- 
and makes it strong-flavored. Turnips, cabbage, Jjjjjj 
and cauliflower are good examples of this. The cookmg. 
small white turnip or cauliflower cooked over thirty over-cook- 
minutes immediately begins to take on color and ing ruing a 
flavor; and if the cooking is extended to double yeffetable. 
that time, as is often the case, by careless people, 
the vegetable becomes indigestible. If potatoes are cooked 
two or three minutes after they are done, particularly if they 
are surrounded by moisture, either of their own or from some 
other source, they begin to grow soggy and strong-flavored. 
As great care is demanded that the vegetable should not be 
over-cooked as that it is not under-cooked. 

The supply and quality of our vegetables improve each 
year. Market-gardeners make a better selection of seeds, 
and bestow more care on the cultivation and marketing of 
vegetables, than was their custom. Small, almost stringless 
beans and fresh carrots are to be found in the markets all 
the year, where formerly they were to be had only a few 
months in the year. 

A few definite rules will serve to show how easy, healthful, 
and satisfactory is the scientific method of cooking vegetables 
of the various classes. If the housekeeper and ^ < ^^ ^^^ 
cook will take the time to thoroughly study and more at- 
understand the principles underlying the cooking ^^^ ^^^ 
of vegetable substances as given in this chapter, ration of 
our tables will be served with savory, digestible vegeta- 
vegetables every day in the year. I feel like ask- 
ing, as a personal favor, that each housekeeper will give for 
one year as much time to the study of vegetables as she ordi- 
narily gives to the study of cakes, pastry, and other sweets. 



250 HOME ECONOMICS 

String the beans, and break them in pieces about two 

inches long; let them stand in cold water for several hours; 

drain oflf the water, and put the beans into a stew- 

^^taS* P^^ ^^^ three quarts of boiling water; boil for 

method tf thirty-five or forty minutes, with the cover par- 

^^^^ tially off the stew-pan; then turn the beans into a 

Mm. " colander, and pour cold water over them until they 
are thoroughly chilled. Put them in a stew-pan 
with the butter, su^r, salt, and stock or water; let them 
cook rapidly, with the cover off the stew-pan, for ten 
minutes. For one quart of beans, use (after they are 
blanched) two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and half a pint of light meat 
stock or of water. Or the water may be omitted, and a 
third tablespoonful of butter added; cook over a very hot 
fire for five minutes; this gives glazed beans. Or they may 
be heated and served in a white or brown sauce. If a table- 
spoonful of salt is added to the water in which the beans 
are boiled, they will be greener, but not quite so delicate 
and tender. 

The beans may be boiled hours, or a day, before the 
time of serving. The important thing to remember is 
that they must be chilled as soon as they are taken from 
the fire. 

Spinach, lettuce, sorrel, cabbage, cauliflower, turnips, car- 
rots, parsnips, and like vegetables may all be cooked in 
boiling water, chilled in cold water, drained, and put away 
until serving-time, when they may be heated and served in 
sauce, or sautered with the butter and salt, as directed for 
beans. The sugar may be omitted from beans and other 
vegetables, if not liked. 

The secret of success in this cooking is in having the 
vegetable crisp, put into boiling water, having it boil con- 
tinuously, with the cover of the stew-pan partially removed 
to allow the escape of gases, and the rapid and thorough 



FOOD 251 

chilling of the vegetable as soon as it is taken from the boil- 
ing water. 

If a vegetable is to be served immediately, the chilling is 
not necessary. If the vegetable is to be served in a sauce, 
the water in which it is boiled must be salted, as the sauce 
should not be salt enough to season the vegetable. 

Boiled Potatoes.— Have the potatoes pared, or partially 
pared; cover them with boiling water, and let them cook, 
with the cover of the stew-pan partially off, for thirty 
minutes. Add one tablespoonful of salt for every dozen 
potatoes. At the end of thirty minutes drain off every drop 
of water; set the stew-pan on the range for a few minutes to 
dry off the potatoes. Never put the cover over the cooked 
vegetable. If the potatoes must wait before serving, cover 
them with several folds of cheese-cloth, and let the stew-pan 
stand on a warm part of the range. The cheese-cloth allows 
the moisture to escape, and yet protects the vegetable from 
the cold air. 

Boiled Eice.— Wash the rice, rubbing the grains between 
the hands, in three waters. Put it on to cook in boiling 
water (two quarts of water to half a pint of rice). Add one 
tablespoonful of salt; boil rapidly, with the cover off the 
stew-pan, for fifteen minutes; turn the rice into a colander 
to drain. Immediately return it to the stew-pan, which 
cover and set back where it will keep hot for forty minutes 
or longer. Rice cooked in this manner will be sweet, dry, 
and have every grain separate. ' 

The rice may be boiled in the water for thirty instead of 
fifteen minutes, in which case it must be thoroughly drained, 
then placed in the stew-pan on the back of the range; cover 
with cheese-cloth to allow the steam to escape. 

By the first method the rice is only partially cooked when 
the water is drained off. The saucepan is then covered closely 
to prevent the escape of the moisture, which is required to 
finish the cooking of the vegetable. By the second method 



252 HOME ECONOMICS 

the rice absorbs all the water it requires in the thirty min- 
utes; therefore it must be thoroughly drained, and while dry- 
ing off it must be covered with a coarse cloth, or with cheese- 
cloth, that the steam may escape. 
These examples of cooking potatoes and rice are given to 

^ show how necessary it is that there be only the required 
amount of moisture when a starchy substance is to be 

. cooked dry. On the other hand, when a starchy substance 
is desired moist, the cooking must be done in plenty of 
moisture and at a high temperature. 

In cooking the various cereals in the form of 
^»tn»" i^ush, they should always be stirred into the re- 
develops quired amount of boiling water, and boil for at 
to owwS ^^^^ *®^ minutes. If there is fear of scorching 
the mush, the cooking may be finished over boiling 
water; but a fine nutty flavor is attained by mush which is 
cooked at a temperature high enough to let it bubble all the 
while it is cooking. 

THE MANIPULATION OP MATERIALS 

There are two forces that enter into the preparation of 
our food— the mechanical and the chemical. To do our work 
VAAAttri ^^*^ ^^® greatest ease and success we should un- 
forundMw derstand the reasons why; then there will be no 
itandiiig guesswork or uncertainty, and there will be a uni- 
^ wSyl^^ f ormity in our results which will be most gratify- 
ing. So far, when we have touched upon food, 
it has been to show the effect of heat on the simpler mate- 
rials. Now we want to consider briefly manipulation, heat, 
air, steam, and gases in relation to certain kinds of mixtures. 
In preparing certain mixtures the manner of combining 
and manipulating materials is very important. A few brief 
statements will help the housekeeper and cook to understand 
the reason why one gets such different results from the 
same materials under varying manipulations and conditions. 



FOOD 253 

DoughB.— These are a mixture of flour or meal, liquids, 
and other materials. Anything that is made so thick that 
it can be molded into various forms is a dough. ,^^^^^ 
The more thoroughly a dough is kneaded or beaten, makes 
the finer grained will be the article made from it. ii-^J^i. 
The less moisture there is in dough, the drier and grained, 
more crumbly will be the cooked article. All a^d moist 
dough mixtures depend for their lightness on ^^°^' 
carbonic-acid gas, air, and moisture. The heat applied in 
cooking expands the gas, the air, and the moisture which has 
been changed to steam. The more air we beat into a dough, 
the less carbonic-acid gas will be required to make it light. 
In cooking, because of the greater pressure required to force 
the solid particles apart, all doughs, except where yeast has 
been used, require a greater heat than do the batters. 

Batters.— Mixtures of flour, meal, liquid, and other sub- 
stances that are too thin to be molded into shape, are termed 
batters. Like doughs, they depend for lightness on air, 
moisture, and sometimes carbonic-acid gas. The thicker 
the batter, the greater the force required to push the par- 
ticles apart. 

The carbonic-acid gas which we employ to make doughs 
and batters light is produced in several ways. One is by fer- 
mentation, as when we mix yeast with the dough 
or batter; as the mixture ferments, particles of ^^^^ 
gas are given off, which become entangled in the acid gas. 
dough, filling it with cells, and causing it to ex- 
pand as a dry sponge does when placed in water. It is im- 
portant that the dough be thoroughly kneaded or beaten, 
that the gas may be evenly distributed, thus giving a fine- 
celled loaf of bread, roll, or muflin. Articles of food that 
are made light with yeast must* have all the cells formed, and 
the fermentation nearly finished, before heat is applied, be- 
cause a high temperature kills the yeast plant and so stops 
fermentation. 



254 HOME ECONOMICS 

Carbonic-acid gas may be produced at the moment it is 
required for use by a combination of an acid, an alkali, and a 
liquid, as in the case of soda and cream of tartar or baking- 
powder; or with an alkali and an acid liquid, as, for example, 
soda and sour milk, vinegar, lemon- juice, molasses, etc. 

The cook should remember that the gas is liberated at 
once when the wet acid and alkali are combined, except in the 

When and ^^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^^ cream of tartar, or a cream-of- 
how the tartar baking-powder. When the acid employed 
uff* ted. ^® cream of tartar, but little gas is given off until 
heat is applied. This may be proved by putting 
equal quantities of baking-powder in two tumblers, and 
pouring a little cold water over one, and hot water over 
the other. The second glass will be filled immediately with 
the gas. This illustration goes to show that, to get the full 
quantity of the gas entangled in the dough or batter, all the 
materials should be cold during the mixing, and that the 
temperature to which the article is subjected while cooking 
should be moderate if a fine-grained, even-celled muffin or 
cake is desired; and if, on the other hand, one wishes an 
article filled with large cells the temperature should be 
higher. 

When using soda and sour milk, lemon- juice, vinegar, and 
like acids, everything should be in readiness, and as much 
as possible of the mixing and beating should be done before 
the acid and alkali are combined. The work should progress 
very rapidly after this, or a great deal of the gas will escape 
into the air. 

The cook should not depend wholly upon chemicals for 
making her dough and batter light. Where there is plenty 
of air entangled, only a small amount of carbonic acid will 
be required. The too generous use of baking-powder pro- 
duces a dry, tasteless bread, mufiin, or cake. 

In beating eggs or a batter for the purpose of making 
them light, the movement should be rapid and the swing of 



FOOD 255 

the arm out and upward; this motion lifts the mixture, and 
as it falls back it sweeps the air in with it. The value of 
eggs in making a substance light is not that of ^^^ ^^ 
themselves they have this power, but that the why eggs 
albumin in the egg is a tenacious substance, capa- a»d batters 
ble of stretching and entangling a great volume 
of air. The albumin hardens at a low temperature, thus in- 
suring the stability of the walls of the cells, a most impor- 
tant thing in delicate batters, like muffins and cake. 

The temperature at which doughs and batters are baked 
has much to do with the texture of the finished article. If 
the heat is too great at first, the bubbles of air ^g^^ ^f 
and gas expand so rapidly that they do not re- varied 
main in their individual cells, but burst their tf^pera- 
walls, which fall together, giving a muffin or cake texture of 
filled with a mixture of great holes and of solid doughs and 
particles of dough, a coarse, tough article which 
no one likes. The same batter, if it had been cooked in a 
moderate oven, would have been evenly filled with fine cells; 
the texture would have been delicate and tender. If a 
batter is very thin, as, for example, sponge-cake or angel- 
cake, the heat must be very moderate. If the oven is too 
hot, the cake rises rapidly and then falls; that is, the walls 
of the cells expand too rapidly to hold the structure, and a 
collapse is the result, as is the case in making soap-bubbles 
when one blov/s too hard— the bubble bursts. 

A good general rule for baking batters and doughs is to 
have a very moderate oven for the thinnest batters, increas- 
ing the heat as the batters thicken, until we come General 
to bread, which requires a rather hot oven. The bakiM 
heat must be as great, if not a little greater, at batters 
the bottom as at the top of the oven. anddoughs. 

An important thing to remember, in baking all kinds of 
breads and batters, is that at first the dough or batter 
liquefies, and that at this stage a movement or a jar is almost 



250 HOME ECONOlilCS 

fatal. The article cooking should not be disturbed until the 
walls of the cells are well set. 

We often use eggs as a thickening where we do not care 

to have them light. Many cooks have an idea that if they 

are not to be made light they need not be beaten 

^'^^i^S * great deal. A well-beaten egg will have twice 



are 



thieken the thickening power of one only slightly beaten. 
J^J?"*^ When the egg is required for thickening it must 

artioie. be beaten in such a manner that it will not en- 
tangle air. Let the stroke be horizontal and in- 
ward, as if you were cutting the egg. A spoonful of liquid 
aids in preventing it from becoming light. Eggs for cus- 
tards, puddings that are required smooth and creamy rather 
than light, and for thickening most soups and sauces, should 
be beaten in this manner. 

All puddings that are required smooth and creamy, such 
as custard, bread, rice, tapioca, should bake or steam slowly. 
Rapid cooking produces a tough curd-and-whey article. 

FLAVORS AND ODORS 

In the preparation of food, while it is important that we 
preserve, as much as possible, all the nutrition in the sub- 
stance, it is quite as essential that we cook the food in the 
most digestible manner, even if this means a slight loss in 
nutrition. 

We have seen how temperature affects albuminous and 
carbon compounds, and we have also seen the importance of 
the proper manipulation of the food materials, followed by 
the proper application of heat. There is another point which 
has not received from investigators the attention which it 
deserves; this is. What are the effects of retaining in the food 
all the odors and flavors that are developed and liberated in 
the cooking? There is not space here to go into this sub- 
ject in detail; but a few facts, which have been proved by 



FOOD 257 

years of careful observation and experiments, will help to a 
better understanding of this important subject. 

All food materials contain flavoring substances, more or 
less strong, that are fully developed by heat. In the 
starchy foods the flavors and odors are mild, while ^ , , 
in green vegetables, as a rule, both flavors and flavors 
odors are pronounced. This is particularly true ^^^^^^ 
of vegetables that contain a good deal of sulphur ^ ^ 
or a pungent essential oil, as, for example, cabbage, cauli- 
flower, onions, turnips, carrots, etc. 

With the exception of starchy foods, all vegetable and 
animal substances that are cooked in closed vessels are difS- 
cult of digestion. The same foods thoroughly 
ventilated while cooking will have a delicate ©ooki^hi 
flavor and be easy of digestion— provided, of dosed or 
course, that all the other conditions for proper ^^vewSa!' 
cooking are observed. Take, for example, cab- 
bage, turnips, string-beans, or cauliflower. Cook them in 
plenty of boiling water for half an hour, having the water 
boiling all the while, and the cover partially off the sauce- 
pan, and it will be found that these vegetables will have a 
delicate flavor, and will not disagree with those who partake 
of them. On the other hand, cook them for the same length 
of time with the saucepan covered, and the flavor will be 
strong, and in most cases they will cause flatulence. By 
boiling with the cover off the stew-pan, a part of the gases 
which produce the strong flavor and odor are carried off in the 
steam, thus making the vegetable much more delicate and 
digestible. This will be found true in the cooking of all 
vegetables, meats, and fish. No matter what the process of 
cooking is, let there be thorough ventilation. 

Another point to remember in regard to heat, if Lobs of 
you would have a fine-flavored vegetable, soup, ^^^^ 
meat, cup of coffee or tea, is that after the ar- tempera- 
ticle has been raised to a certain temperature, it *'"*• 

17 



258 HOME ECONOMIGS 

must be kept near that throughout the cooking process. 
For example, a vegetable that is not kept up to the boiling- 
point all the time will be water-soaked and of poor flavor. 
A soup that is not kept at the simmering-point all the time 
will lack flavor. The cup of tea or coffee that goes below 
200° will lose its fine flavor, and reheating will not restore it. 

ECONOMY IN FOOD 

Economy does not mean going without things that are 
necessary to health and happiness, but a wise selection and 
preparation of materials. It means that every- 
^j^y. thing is put to its proper use, and there is no 
waste. The great diflSculty in the ordinary family 
is that we have too many kinds of food for one meal, and 
that there is neither the time nor the skill to prepare so many 
things in the best manner. Fewer things simply and per- 
fectly cooked and served would mean greater economy, bet- 
ter health, and greater refinement in the table. 

The housekeeper should study to get the right combina- 
tions for health, growth, and repair. No one food substance. 

Proper except milk, contains all the elements necessary 

oombina- to growth and repair, heat and force. Milk as a 

iionoffood f^n jj^^ jg suitable only for young children and 

the very sick. In combination with starchy foods, 

or as a beverage alone, or in combination with other things, 

as chocolate, cocoa, etc., it is a most valuable food adjunct. 

Eggs in almost any form are a valuable and economical 
food. Milk and eggs, however, have a tendency to produce 
a bilious condition, and can be eaten only sparingly by some 
people. 

The vegetable foods that may, in a measure, replace meats 
should be found often on the tables of the people who must 
study economy. The housekeeper should never lose sight 
of the fact that there are certain kinds of food— the albu- 



FOOD 



259 



minous compounds— which are absolutely necessary for the 
growth and repair of the body, and that there must be a 
certain amount of these compounds in the food provided for 
each meal. There are few food substances that do not 
contain a little of each of the food principles, so that, with- 
out any thought or planning on our part, we get a certain 
amount of each in our daily food. The following tables may 
be helpful to the housekeeper in arranging the menus for 
the day: 



GROWTH AND REPAIR 

Meat. 

Fish. 

Eggs. 

Milk. 

Beans 

Pease 

Lentils 

Cheese 

Nuts. 



HEAT AND FORCE 



Starchy foods 



with fat of some 
kind. 



Fats. 
Sugar. 



Totatoes. 

Rice. 

Corn. 

Cereals. 

Tapioca. 

.Sago. 



VEGETABLES WITH LITTLE OR NO STARCH 



Cabbage. 

Turnips. 

Parsnips. 

Beets. 

Celery. 

Green beans. 

Asparagus. 

Fmits (fresh and cooked). 



Spinach, and, indeed, all the 

green vegetables. 
Egg-plant. 
Artichokes. 
Tomatoes. 
Squash. 
Cucumbers. 



If at every meal something is taken from each of the four 
tables, the balance will be maintained. Of course there are 
conditions of health and eccentricities of digestion that must 



260 HOME ECONOMICS 

be taken into account in many families. No one has a right 
to insist upon any one's eating any kind of food that is in- 
jurious to him, or that is painfully distasteful. On the other 
hand, people should try to like all the ordinary plain foods, 
both for their own comfort and good, and for the comfort 
of those who provide for the table. 

In these days, when there are so many fads as to when, 

what, and how one shall eat, the housekeeper must exercise 

her common sense, and not attempt risky experi- 

^"■^ •"* ments on herself and her family. It may be well 

^V for some people to omit the morning meal, and for 
others to give up certain kinds of food, but for 
the majority of people three meals a day and a mixed diet 
are a necessity. The important thing is not to narrow the 
diet down to a few things, but to know how to prepare all the 
food substances in a healthful, digestible, and appetizing man- 
ner, that the table may be provided with a generous variety. 

Purchase only what you need, prepare it carefully, utilize 
even the smallest particles of what is left over. You will 
find it possible to combine many little things which 
neSfbf ^^® ordinarily thrown away, so as to make a deli- 
wasted, cious dish. Mix, for example, a few spoonfuls of 
different kinds of vegetables, a little gravy or a 
small bone from steak or chops, a small piece of bread, 
water, salt, and pepper; simmer for an hour, rub through a 
sieve, return to fire; add a teaspoonful of butter, boil up, 
and you have a delicious soup. If the greater part of the 
vegetables were beans or pease, a little milk added to the 
strained mixture will give you a cream soup. Or, you have 
a little stuffing or gravy left from a roast; add this to a can 
of tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, cook half an hour, 
strain, and serve with toasted bread. This gives you a sa- 
vory soup for a luncheon. 

A few spoonfuls of rice, hominy, macaroni, or potato, 
mixed with a little chopped meat or fish, and a few spoons 



POOD 261 

fuls of gravy to moisten the mixture, may be put in a little 
dishy covered with crumbs, and baked in the oven. Stuffing 
left from roast poultry may be sliced thin and browned in 
the oven, and served on slices of toast. Indeed, there need 
not be the slightest waste where brains and willing hands 
preside in the kitchen. 



CHAPTER XIl 

WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS 

Polished floors. Hard-wood floors. Waxed floors. To clean and wax at 
the same time. Summary. Stained floors waxed. General directions 
for oiling floors. Summary. Cleaning with petroleum. Appliances used 
in polishing floors. Piazza floors. 

Every one should have some knowledge of a material 
which enters as largely as wood does into the construction of 
houses and furniture. 

A log of wood may be thus briefly described: the bark, 
immature or sap-wood, mature or heart-wood, pith. The 

A brief ^^^ ^^ nearly always removed before the wood is 
deseriptian employed in any but the rudest kind of structure, 
of a log of go we need not consider it. The sap-wood is the 

wood* 

new soft wood lying between the bark and the 

heart-wood; it contains a great deal of soluble organic mat- 
ter, which ferments readily, and causes the lumber to decay, 
unless it is soaked or dried out soon after the tree has been 
hewn. In the best lumber it is often removed. 

The heart-wood is that part of the tree which lies be- 
tween the sap-wood and the pith. This part of the log is 
generally much closer grained, harder, and darker than the 
sap-wood. It contains only a small amount of soluble or- 
ganic matter, and is therefore less liable to decay than the 

sap-wood. In many of the soft woods there is no perceptible 

262 



WOODS AND POLISHED .FLOORS 263 

difference in the color of the heart- and sap-wood; this is 
the case with poplars, soft pine, spruce, etc. 

Air and moisture combined are destructive to wood. 
When wood is kept dry and exposed to the air, it is not 
liable to rapid decay. Wood sunk deep in water 
or earth is less liable to decay than when exposed 'Jjttorf' 
to the air and frequent wettings. Any applica- air and 
tion that will exclude the air will tend to preserve T^*?f *f 

81X116 uVO to 

wood. Paint, oil, and varnish are the most com- wood, 
mon preservatives. All woods that have an out- 
side exposure should be painted or oiled, or treated with 
one of the many preservatives on the market. 

When posts are sunk in the ground, the ends that are to 
be buried should be treated in some manner, that they may 
not decay readily. If one cannot afford the ex- ^^ ^^ 
pensive preparations, the ends may be burned ends of 
long enough to cover them with a thin layer of voftMmik 
charcoal, or they may be soaked in strong hot gronxLd 
brine, and some coarse salt be put in the earth "^SlJlSd. 
that is used to fill in around them; or they could 
receive two coats of paint, which will protect them from 
moisture. Locust, cedar, and chestnut, in the order in 
which they are named, are the best woods for putting in the 
ground. 

Wood that has a resinous substance distributed through- 
out its structure resists decay when exposed to air and 
moisture. The resins are insoluble in water, and Beiinoiui 
harden on exposure to air, thus making the wood woods 
impervious to moisture. It is for this reason that "«»* de- 
yellow pine (the long-leafed pine commonly called 
Georgia pine) is so desirable for piazzas, kitchen and laundry 
floors, and all other situations where wood is exposed to air 
and moisture. 

The gums are soluble in water, and therefore do not afford 
the protection to wood that resinous matter does. The 



264 HOME EGONOMIGS 

closer grained and the smoother the wood is planed, the less 
liable it is to absorb moisture; hence the more durable. 

Wood that has had the sap dissolved and soaked out of 
it, and is then dried with care in well-ventilated sheds, is 
more durable than the wood that has had the sap 
mhSw^i-n dried in it. In drying, wood shrinks in its breadth 
breadth and depth, and little, if any, in the length. If 
^liS^ these woods absorb moisture they expand in the 
in length, direction in which they contracted. All woods 
warp more or less when exposed to atmospheric 
changes. In selecting woods for floors, doors, windows, etc., 
care should be taken to choose those having the least ten- 
dency to warp. Some of the woods having this tendency are 
all the poplars and the short-leaved yellow pine. 

The mode of sawing the boards has much to do with the 

wearing quality of the wood in floors. Among lumber- 

The mode d®^^®^®' boards are designated from the manner 

of sawing of cutting, as "quartered," "rift or comb grain,'' 

r^^^SSe ^^^ "slash" or "bastard." The quartered and 

fbr the the comb grain give a board that wears smoothly 

^^Sf ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ sliver, a most desirable quality In a 

* floor. The slash or bastard, in some woods, peels 

oflf in fine slivers, making an unsightly and poor-wearing floor. 

This same wood is beautiful and quite durable in interior 

finishes that are well protected and not subject to friction, 

as, for example, in panels of doors. In some woods, such as 

maples and other hard woods, the slash is so fine and close 

that it never grows rough, and it can be used in furniture, 

A brief ez- ^^^^^^^ finish, and floors quite as well as quartered 

planation or comb-grained wood. On the other hand, in all 

mimner of ^^^ pines, spruce, poplars, some of the ash, etc., 

growth and the annual layers separate with more or less ease. 

cutting of ^^ explanation of the manner of growth and 
woodi 

cutting will help to an understanding of why we 

have so many unsatisfactory floors, and the remedy for them. 



WOODS AMD POLISHED FLOORS 365 

The tree grows from the outBide, each year making a layer 
that is higher than that of the preceding year. Fig. 48 
shows roughly how these layers are 
arranged. The space between a, 6, 
and c, d, would give rift or comb- 
grain boards; that between h and c, 
slash or bastard. Fig. 49 shows the 
rift and slash in a pine board, a, a 
is rift; h, slash. Fig. 50 shows the 
manner of cutting a log. The half 
a shows the ordinary way of cutting 
which gives one broad board. The 
center of the board, d, will contain 
the short annual layers —slash— and 
the outside, c, e, the long annual 
layers— -rift. The board is often 
recut, giving two pieces of rift and 
one of slash. The half of the log h pj^. ^ 

shows one of the methods of quar* 

tering woods. This is done a great deal with the fine oaks 
used for furniture and interior finish. By this method the 
wood is all cut across the grain. 

In laying floors that are not to be covered, the slash of 
the soft woods should never be used. Shelves and tables in 
kitchens and pantries should not be made of slash wood. 

Since bare floors are becoming almost univer- 
sal, the following advice from an expert as to the J^^. 
best wood, and the manner of preparing and lay- rico in 
ing them, will aid those who want good floors ^^^^ 
that shall increase in beauty ivith years and with ksA man- 
proper care. Nothing is said of inlaid floors, as ^"l^^J^ 
this kind of work should be done by men skilled floon. 
in that line. 

"The hard woods used as flooring are oak, ash, maple, 
walnut, mahogany, and cherry. The so-called soft woods 



266 HOUE ECONOMICS 

are white pine, yellow pine, hard pine, epruce, the poplars, 
and baeawood. 

" The hard woods do not ehrink as much as the soft woods- 
Yellow pine does not absorb moisture as readily as some 



woods, because of the amount of resinous substance in it; 
for this reason it is excellent for kitchen and laundry, or any 
floors exposed to moisture. 

" Maple is one of the most satisfactory woods for a floor. 

It may be used in any part of the house, from parlor to 
kitchen. It grows smoother and finer with wear. The first - 
cost is greater than yellow pine, but it pays in the end. 

"The boards for floors should be planed on both sides. 
The planing on the under side is to prevent the wood from 
absorbing moisture. 

" To insure the floor against becoming uneven because of 
the boards expanding if there is moisture, each board should 
be about one sixteenth of an inch narrower on the under side 
than on the top; this allows of expansion and contraction. 

"Flooring should be made of Ij-inch plank, tongued and 
grooved. This flooring will cost perhaps one third more than 
that made from the Iji-inch plank, but it will be cheaper in 
the end, because the work will cost the same with either 



WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS 267 

kind, while the thicker plank will wear more than a third 
longer than the thinner." 

POLISHED FLOORS 

Slowly but surely the polished floor is making its way into 
homes in all parts of the country. " Oh," some say, " it is 
only a fad which will have its day, and pass away like other 
fads." On the contrary, it is not a passing fad, but a sen- 
sible hygienic fashion which has come to stay, and which 
commends itself to all thinking people. The advantages of 
such a floor are its cleanliness and healthfulness, the ease 
with which a room with such a floor can be kept clean, and, 
after the first cost, the economy of it. 

One has only to observe the difference in sweeping a car- 
peted floor and one that is uncarpeted to realize the greater 
cleanliness and healthfulness of the polished floor. 
Wheii sweeping is being done in the carpeted room, ^ ^®"^" 
the dust rises in clouds, more or less heavy, ac- po^shed 
cording to the condition of the carpet and the ^^^ ^'^ 
method of using the broom. Naturally the dust ganitary. 
settles on the walls, doors, and windows, and is 
inhaled by the sweeper. To remove it requires time and 
care, and a second breathing of dust-laden air for the 
sweeper. 

On the other hand, the hair brush or dust-mop may be 
passed gently over the polished floor, taking up all the dust 
without raising or scattering it. The dust on walls, wood- 
work, or furniture is but slightly increased by this sweeping, 
and the person cleaning is not compelled to breathe disease- 
germs with the dust. Certainly the floors of rooms continu- 
ally in use, such as the dining-room, living-room, bedrooms, 
and bath-rooms, should be polished, or covered with a fine, 
closely woven matting. 

By polished floors is meant any floor finished smoothly, 



268 HOME EOONOMIGS 

and stainedy oiled, varnished, waxed, or painted. Any floor 

of this kind may be kept clean without the aid of much 

Sanitary water; and this is a great consideration when we 

value of realize that moisture is one of the conditions 

P^«* favoring the growth of bacteria. Thus if the 

boards forming the floor are kept dry there will 

be no decay, and but slight chance for the growth of germs. 

Although hard wood is the most desirable material in 

every way for a floor, one can manage with a pine floor that 

is fairly well finished. The tendency of pine boards to sliver, 

and their softness, make it impossible to have a beautiful 

floor, but one can get fair results and a reasonable amount 

of wear out of it if it is treated carefully, and if rugs are 

laid where the greatest wear comes. 

Crude petroleum can be used to cleanse floors that have 

Uieof ^^^ painted, varnished, or oiled. This oil not 

oroda pe- only cleanses, but at the same time it gives a flnish. 

tni^n on rpj^^ refined oil may also be used, but does not clean 

so quickly or thoroughly as the crude petroleum. 

Before deciding on the kind of finish to be put on the floor, 

the question as to whether it is to be light or dark must be 

settled. If the floor is to be kept the color of the 

^oJj.*^ wood, it must be waxed or varnished with a clear 

varnish. Oil darkens a wood. The more oil used, 

the darker the wood is made. Wood that is oiled darkens 

with age. The lightest oil used for cleaning and oiling woods 

is petroleum. When linseed-oil, sweet-oil, or paraffin-oil is 

employed for cleaning or polishing woods, it is diluted with 

turpentine to make it lighter. Any surface except a waxed 

surface may be polished with oil. 

HARD-WOOD FLOORS 

The daily care of the polished floor is perhaps greater 
than that of the carpet. But this daily care is so simple, 



WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS 269 

and the outlay of time and strength so small, that it is very 
little compared with the amount of strength and time one 
must give a carpeted room in the course of a year. 

Many persons object to the wood floor on the score of 
danger and cold. When one remembers that the hard-wood 
floor is, as a rule, an extra layer of boards, perfectly joined, 
it will be seen that it is a better protection against wind and 
dust than is the carpet. Besides, one always has rugs on 
which the feet rest when one is sitting. As to danger, these 
floors need not be so highly polished that there is danger 
from them. An oiled floor is less slippery than one that is 
waxed. A floor polished with encaustic can be made less 
slippery than one polished with the pure wax. The amount 
and hardness of the rubbing makes the floor more or less 
beautiful, and also more or less slippery. 

Small, smooth rugs should not be put at doors or on hall 
floors, where one is apt to walk quickly and without think- 
ing. There is no danger when the rug is large 
and heavy. The coarse Japanese rug is excel- j^^J|^^ 
lent, because it does not slip easily on the pol- floow. 
ished surface. Otherwise, if one disposes of the 
rugs by couches, tables, etc., there is no danger. I should 
advise a strip of carpet on polished stairs. The sides can 
be kept as brilliantly polished as one may wish. In caring 
for a hard- wood floor, it must be remembered that ^g^ ^ 
water is one of the worst things that can be used, water <m 
If at any time there should seem to be a necessity ^^Jjjj^ 
for cleaning with water, it must be only by means 
of a soft cloth wrung out of warm water. It must also be 
rubbed with another dry one. Then it should be oiled or pol- 
ished at once. Any liquid spilled upon a waxed floor and 
allowed to dry of itself will produce a stain which can only 
be removed by hard rubbing and the encaustic. Even drops 
of clean cold water will spot a waxed floor unless they are 
wiped at once. 



270 HOME ECONOMICS 

The daily care of the hard-wood floor is very simple. If 
the room is much used, it must be swept first with a soft hair 
brush, then wiped with a long-handled dust-mop 
^offloT which comes for this purpose and is also known 
as a yacht-mop. When a room is not used much 
the dust-mop is all that is required. If there are spots on 
the floor, they should be rubbed with a piece of flannel or 
carpet. If this does not remove them, they may be cleaned 
with a little turpentine on a piece of cloth; this takes oflF the 
polish, and it will be necessary to rub the spot with a cloth 
moistened with encaustic or with oil, according to the finish, 
and then polish it. 

Once a week all the spots should be wiped clean, and a 

cloth moistened with encaustic, or oil and turpentine, should 

Weekly ^^ rubbed on any parts of the floor where the pol- 

care of ish has worn oflF; then the floor should be rubbed 

hard-wood ^j^^ a weighted brush. This weekly treatment 

is only for rooms very much used. 

A floor that is thoroughly cleaned and polished twice a 

year can be kept in beautiful condition by this weekly care. 

These general directions are for the daily and weekly care 

of well-finished waxed or oiled floors. Exact instruction is 

Kecesaty ^^cessary for each method of treatment. I have 

of proper seen so many floors spoiled, the most beautiful as 

^of flwSl* ^^^^ ^® *^® commonest, by improper treatment, 
that I shall go into the minutest details of wax- 
ing, oiling, and polishing floors. These directions will be 
followed by a summary of the methods, which will give the 
different steps of the work concisely and clearly. Having read 
the details carefully, the worker will find the summary a clear 
and simple guide. 

WAXED FLOORS 

The floor to be waxed should be perfectly smooth and 
clean. The boards of a close-grained wood made perfectly 



WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS 271 

smooth can be waxed without any other preparation. An 
open-grained wood will require filling. If the wood i^ de- 
sired one or many shades darker than the original Preparing 
tone, some color can be put in with the filler. The the floor 
filling and staining, if any, are generally done by "'^*^"*' 
the men who finish the floors. (See " Finishing, Filling, and 
Staining of Floors.'') 

The wax for polishing can be bought prepared for use, or 
it can be prepared at home. (See encaustics No. 1 and 
No. 2.) The prepared polishes come in liquid and in solid 
form. The liquid is more easily put on, and requires little 
rubbing to give the boards a high polish; but the surface is 
more slippery than when the more solid forms are used. 

Put the wax where it will be getting warm and soft. 
Have the room thoroughly swept and dusted, all the furni- 
ture dusted, the lighter pieces removed from the room, and 
the windows washed. Wipe all the dust from the floor with 
a damp cloth. Go over the floor carefully, and clean any 
soiled places with turpentine and a flannel cloth. 

Should black stains, from water or other causes, come on 
the boards, pour a strong solution of oxalic acid on the spot, 
letting it remain until the stain disappears. The 
acid not only removes the stain, but also the color g^J^^^ 
from the wood, and this must be restored before oxalic add. 
polishing. (See "Restoring Color to Wood.") 
When all the floor has been cleaned in this way, moisten a 
flannel cloth with the soft wax, being careful not to have any 
large or hard bits of wax on it. Rub the floor all jg^^^Q^ ^f 
over with this cloth, renewing the wax whenever applying 
necessary. When all is done, let the floor remain ^** ^ 
in this condition an hour or more, if there is time; 
then polish it with a weighted brush, rubbing with the brush 
until a soft luster comes. When the whole floor has been 
polished in this manner, cover the brush with a large woolen 
cloth or a piece of clean woolen C9,rpet, fastening the cover 



272 HOME ECONOMICS 

on the brush with safety-pins. Rub the floor with this, and 
the surface will take on a higher polish. 

TO CLEAN AND WAX AT THE SAME TIME 

When the floor is very much soiled, it can be cleaned and 
polished at the same time by using encaustic No. 2 and tur- 
pentine. 

Put the encaustic in a bowl, then set in a pan of boiling 
water. Have the floor swept and dusted. Have two woolen 
cloths and several pieces of old cotton; waste cotton is very 
good if it can be procured with ease, but any kind of soft 
uncolored cotton will answer. 

When the encaustic is hot, add about an equal volume of 
turpentine to it. Keep the bowl in hot water, but away 

Method of ^^^^ *^® ^^^9 ^^ there is danger from the turpen- 
appiying tine. Dip one of the flannel cloths in the hot 
*^® mixture, and begin at one side of the room, rub- 
bing as large a space as you can comfortably 
until it is clean. Then with the cotton cloth wipe oflF the 
soiled cleaning-mixture; next polish with the second piece 
of flannel. 

If the floor is not very dirty, and requires polishing only, 
dip a brush or cloth in the hot mixture and go over the floor 

PoUflhiiiff. Q^^c'^ly ^^^ thoroughly. Let this stand until dry, 
which will take two or three hours; then polish 
with the weighted brush as directed in the first rule for pol- 
ishing a waxed floor. 

The encaustic can be used on any waxed floor or on a 
varnished floor. 

SUMMARY 

1. Put encaustic No. 2 in a bowl, which place on the fire 
in a pan of hot water. 



WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS 273 

2. Sweep and wipe floor. 

3. Add equal volume of turpentine to hot encaustic, and 
dip woolen cloth into mixture; clean with this. Wipe with 
cotton cloth, and polish with woolen cloth. Or, go over floor 
quickly with cloth dipped in hot mixture. 

Let the floor stand for several hours, and then polish with 
weighted brush. This treatment can be given to regularly 
waxed floors or to varnished floors. 

STAINED FLOORS WAXED 

Stained floors can be waxed with any of the prepared 
waxes, or with encaustic No. 1. Never use No. 2, 
as it would take the color out of the boards, stained 
Proceed as directed in first rule for waxing. floon. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR OILING FLOORS 

The oiled floor is often unsatisfactory because the work 
has been done improperly. Sometimes the oil used was too 
heavy, and it may not have been rubbed into the wood 
thoroughly. Then, again, the floor and room may not have 
been perfectly clean, so that the floating dust lodged in the 
oiled surface and soon became black and unsightly. 

If the boards are new, and one wants to saturate them 
with boiled linseed-oil, the oil should be made rather hot. 
Have the room and floor perfectly clean. Dip a j^ppiiea. 
broad paint-brush in the oil and go over the floor, turn of 
working the brush back and forth on the boards j. ^A^ 
as if painting. Let this stand for an hour or more ; 
then cover a weighted brush with a woolen cloth, and go 
over all the floor, rubbing with the grain of the wood. The 
polishing must be continued until the floor looks smooth and 
not oily. 

Another way is to mix two thirds boiled linseed-oil with 

18 



274 HOME ECONOMICS 

one third turpentine. Wet a cloth in this mixture, and rub 
it into the boards, following this with a brisk rubbing with 
a woolen cloth in the hands or on a weighted brush. 

The secret of success in oiling wood of any description is 

to use a good quality of oil, with enough turpentine or al- 

Secretof ^^^^^ added to make it rather light— from one 

in fourth to one half as much turpentine or alcohol 



***^ as oil. Have the surface to be oiled perfectly 

clean and free from floating dust. Rub the oil 

mixture well in, and let it stand an hour or more to dry. 

Finally, rub the surface briskly with a woolen cloth until it 

has taken a polish and there is no moist oil on the surface. 

A floor with any kind of finish except wax can be oiled in 
this manner. Painted floors, linoleum, and oil-cloth are much 

Qjjjj^^ improved by this treatment. They should first be 

painted thoroughly washed, then rubbed with a cloth made 

floon^ liah damp with oil and turpentine in equal proportions, 

* ' and polished with the woolen cloth. Such floors 

are not soiled easily, and they retain their luster and softness 

for years if they are thus treated. 

SUMMARY 

1. Have floor and room free from dust. 

2. Dampen a woolen cloth with boiled linseed-oil and 
turpentine, and rub into boards, rubbing with the grain. 

3. Polish the oiled surface with a dry woolen cloth. 

4. If boards are new, and it is desired that they absorb 
much oil, have oil heated and put on thickly with woolen 
cloth or brush. Let the floor stand a few hours to have the 
oil strike in; then polish. 

CLEANING WITH PETROLEUM 

Have the room and floor free from dust. Wet a woolen 
cloth with petroleum, —either the crude or the refined article 



WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS 275 

may be used,— and rub the boards briskly, rubbing with the 
grain. When all is finished, let it stand an hour or two to 
dry, then polish with a woolen cloth. If the pol- 
ishing is not done, dust will adhere to the floor, and ^Jj^'JJ^'^ 
if the boards are varnished or painted they will polishing, 
have a cloudy appearance in a day or two. The 
odor of petroleum is very disagreeable, but if there be a free 
sweep of air through the room it passes oflF in a short time. ' 

Petroleum does not contain enough fat to give a fine, 
soft finish to boards; therefore the floor should be treated 
with boiled linseed-oil and turpentine about once in two or 
three months when a room is not subjected to hard usage. 
For a kitchen floor once a month is a fair average. 

APPLIANCES USED IN POLISHING FLOORS 

Upon the right selection and proper treatment of the ap- 
pliances used in the care of floors will depend the success 
and ease with which the work is done. There will be re- 
quired soft cloths (woolen, when possible), clean pieces of 
carpet, one long-handled and one short-handled hair brush, 
one dust-mop (sometimes known as a yacht-mop), one dust- 
pan, one weighted brush, boiled linseed-oil, turpentine, wax, 
and a metallic or stone receptacle for cloths used in oiling 
and waxing. 

The weighted brush, oil, turpentine, and wax are the only 
additional appliances necessary for the care of polished 
floors; all the other implements are such as are also required 
for ordinary floors. 

The weighted brush may be bought at any first-class 
kitchen-furnishing store, and it costs about five j^ 
dollars. It is indispensable in a house where floors weighted 
are waxed, and is most useful in polishing any ^J^'^^^i^jf 
floor. It is a broad, flat brush made from the best 
Russian bristles. On this brush is fastened a loaded top. 



276 HOME EGONOmCS 

A long handle, which can be bent to a certain angle, is fast- 
ened into this. When this brush is placed on the waxed 
surface it is pushed back and forth until the boards take a 
high polish. At first it moves with difficulty, but after it 
has passed back and forth over the surface two or three 
times it slides over easily. On no consideration must this 
brush become oily. When any oiled surface is to be pol- 
ished, the brush is covered with a thick woolen cloth or 
piece of carpet, which can be fastened on with safety-pins. 
It is important that this brush be kept perfectly clean, and 
for this reason it must always be kept covered when not in 
use. 

Make a cotton bag with running-strings; slip the brush in 

this, and tie. This brush is so heavy that it should have a 

place to stand where it will not often be neces- 

ira^htod ®*^ ^ carry it over the stairs. Of course floors 

bnuh. can be polished by getting down on one's hands 

and knees and polishing with brush or cloth, but 

this is very hard, slow work. The French have brushes that 

can be strapped on the feet, and most of the polishing is 

done in this way. This work is usually done by men. 

About once in two or three months wash the brush in the 

following manner: Half fill a pail with tepid water, and to 

this add three tablespoonfuls of household am- 

^dsbM ^^^^^* ^osk the brush in this for about half 

bmih. an hour. Sop it up and down in the water, 
then rinse thoroughly in clear, cold water. 
Wipe and turn it up to dry in a current of air. It 
takes some time to dry, so the washing should not be at- 
tempted just before polishing the floor. The drying must 
never be hurried by placing the brush near heat, as that 
would spoil it. With this care a weighted brush ought to 
be serviceable from ten to twenty years. When the bristles 
are worn out a new brush can be put on the loaded top. 

The dust-mop, which is a thick mop of soft cotton thread 



WOODS AND POUSHED FLOORS 277 

fastened to a long handle, costs about seventy-five cents. 
One can with this wipe up the dust from a large floor in 
five or ten minutes. It should be thoroughly 
shaken every time it is used, to remove the dust. ^^^ 
Once a fortnight soak it in ammonia water as 
directed for the weighted brush, then wash and rinse in 
warm water, and hang out to dry. 

The woolen cloths used in waxing, oiling, and polishing 
are too valuable to be thrown away, and until they are really 
dirty they can be used again and again, the oil and the wax 
with which they are saturated making them more valuable. 
When, however, they do become dirty, they must be cleansed. 

Dissolve two tablespoonf uls of washing-soda in four quarts 
of boiling water, and pour into a pail. Put all the woolen 
cleaning-cloths in this, and let them soak for an 
hour, stirring them several times with a stick. ^XSS'*' 
At the end of this time add a gallon or more 
boiling water to the contents of the pail, -which place in the 
sink. With the stick work the cloths about in this water 
for a few minutes, then pour off the water, and add hot soap- 
suds, and work them, as before, with the stick. Rinse them 
in fresh hot water. All the dirt and soda will have been 
washed out in this manner. Put two quarts of warm water 
and a tablespoonf ul of linseed-oil in a pail. Rinse the cloths 
in this, and put them out to dry. The soda will have re- 
moved all the dirt and wax, and also some of the natural 
oil of the wool. The oil is put in the last water to replace 
the oil washed from the wool and thus keep it soft. 

The pieces of carpet used in polishing must tadei for 
receive the same treatment. All materials used poUsbing 
in oiling and polishing must be kept in covered ingd^SlL 
non-combustible receptacles, because these mate- 
rials are liable to spontaneous combustion. Stone jars with 
covers, or tin pails or boxes, make safe receptacles for cloths 
saturated with oil or turpentine. 



278 HOME ECONOMICS 

Casters or rubber pads on furniture ruin a fine floor. 

Pdt pad! Have that part of every piece of furniture which 

for rests on the floor covered with thick felt. This 

*'"*' is glued on. With this felt finish, heavy pieces 

of furniture can be moved with great ease. 

The thick felt which may be purchased at the paint- 
To fitften supply shops is the best for this purpose because 
ftiton of its thickness, but it is very expensive. Old 

*™*' felt hats may be used instead. 
Cut the felt to fit exactly the bottom of the foot of the 
piece of furniture. Spread on this, and on the surface to 
be covered, a thin layer of glue, and fasten in place. In the 
case of heavy pieces there will be pressure enough to hold 
the felt firmly in place, but chairs and light tables should 
have additional weight placed upon them. 

PIAZZA FLOORS 

Taken all in all, oiling is the best treatment for piazza 
floors. Use clear boiled linseed-oil, very hot. Have the 
piazza perfectly clean and dry. Apply the hot oil with a 
brush. Let this dry for a day, and then apply a second coat 
of hot oil. The next day give a third coating of the hot oil. 
When this dries, rub the piazza smooth with clean pieces of 
old carpet. 

The more oil the boards absorb, the better they will look 
and the less danger there is of decay. After this first 
thorough treatment with oil, all that will be re- 
fervativo! Quired in the future is an oiling whenever the 
boards begin to look dry and rusty. After the 
thorough oiling and rubbing such floors can be varnished. 
It is important that a i^good " outside " varnish should be 
used. The person cleaning and polishing floors should wear 
soft, clean slippers. 



CHAPTER XIII 

TREATMENT OP WOOD FINISHES 

To restore color and finish to wood. Summary. How to make pads for 
wood finishing. To clean and restore the polish on woods. Summary. 
To clean the woodwork of furniture. 

The woodwork of the finish and furniture of the house is 
often in need of slight repairs for which it is not worth while 
to call in a regular cleaner and restorer, even if it is always 
possible to find such a person. If one knows what to do in 
such cases, all these finishes may be kept in good condition 
with a slight outlay of time and strength. It is, in fact, 
analogous to the care of the household linen, where the 
stitch in time saves nine. 

TO RESTORE COLOR AND FINISH TO WOOD 

A piece of furniture, a door, or a mantel has been 
scratched, stained, or otherwise marred; it is a 

constant annoyance, and what a relief it is to be ^^'JJjJ^^ 

able one's self to give it the little careful treat- can some- 

ment that is necessary! If the following direc- ^^^^JJ®". 
tions are put in practice the work may be success- ages, 
fully done by any one. 

The marred place must be rubbed smooth with the finest 

grades of sandpaper. Take a small piece of paper not more 

279 



280 HOME EOONOmCS 

than two inches square, and ruh the spot gently until the 

surface is as smooth as glazed paper. There should be no 

appearance of lines or scratches on the wood. 

JSh' ^SS- Th^ condition can be reached only by light, 

F«P«r. gentle rubbing, and it may take several pieces of 

sandpaper to do the work. If the marred place 

is large or deep use a medium grade of sandpaper at first, 

and finish with the finest. 

Wipe all dust from the spot, then oil it. Make several 

small pads, not larger than a walnut. Wet a pad with 

Amilyliur P^^raffin-oil, then with shellac. Touch the sur- 

paxaiBii- face of the damp pad lightly with the color 

ud^^nr* ^^^ *^® about to use, and rub gently on the 
spot. The motion must be light and even, a 
gliding movement. If pressure is used at first, and if the 
pad is raised and lowered, the surface will be cloudy and 
uneven. This is true of any polishing when shellac is used. 
Put a little more oil, shellac, and color on the pad, and go 
over the surface once more. Do this again and again, imtil 
the desired color has been obtained. When the pad be- 
comes a little hard, take a fresh one. It may require several 
pads to do the work. If it should happen that you get too 
much color in the spot, it may be made light by wetting a 
clean pad with alcohol and going over the dark place lightly 
and gently. If there are two or three shades in the color 
that you wish to restore, the several pigments 
^jj^\f should be put on the pad at the same time, 

tone. just a touch of each, naturally using more of 
the predominating color; as, for example, in 
mahogany, where Bismarck brown, yellow ocher, and aniline 
black are used, Bismarck brown is the principal color, and 
there is only the suggestion of aniline black. The dry 
powder is used in the method given. 

The colors should be taken up on the point of a penknife 
or of a stick. It may be thought by the beginner that it is 



TREATMENT OF WOOD FINISHES 281 

a waste of time to go over the surface so often, using such 
homeopathic doses, but it is the only way to bring up the col- 
or to match the old shade. The movement of the Heed of 
hand and arm must be free and sweeping, the many ap- 
pad gliding over onto the uninjured surface. ^*^ 

Before beginning the work, examine the finish carefully, 
and decide what colors enter into its composition. You will 
find that woods of the same kind vary greatly 
as to the shades of color in the finish. For ex- tanw S 
ample, black walnut in some pieces of furniture getting ez- 
has yellow tones predominating, while in other ^^^^ 
pieces red and black tones are more notice- 
able. A list of colors for the different woods is given below, 
but you must use your own eyes and judgment as to the 
amount of each required. After each fresh application of 
color, examine carefully to see if you are getting in the 
right shades. It is a good plan to practise a few times on 
old or new boards before attempting either woodwork or 
furniture; you will be surprised, after that, to find how easy 
and interesting the work becomes. Here is a list of colors 
for the woods in common use. 

Mahogany and cAerrj^— Bismarck brown, with a little yel- 
low ocher and a suggestion of aniline black. 

Black walnvt—hnrnt umber, yellow ocher if yel- Ck>lor8 of 
low is required, Bismarck brown if red is required. ^^^JJJ 

OaA;— raw or burnt umber, until the color comes. use. 

lA{iht woods— raw umber. 

Burnt sienna may be substituted for Bismarck brown, or 
it may be used with it. When the cherry is a decided red- 
dish shade, burnt sienna is best, and it may be that no 
other color will be required. 

SUMMARY 

1. Examine finish to decide on colors to be used. 

2. Make small pads. 



282 HOME ECONOMICS 

3. Have small bottles of shellac, turpentine, paraflBn, or 
boiled linseed-oil. 

4. Sandpaper the marred place, and then dust thoroughly. 

5. Oil the sandpapered place. 

6. Wet pad with oil, then with shellac, then put on a light 
coating of the color. 

7. Rub the spot with pad, letting the motion be light, 
free, and gliding. 

8. When pad begins to dry, wet with oil and shellac, and 
add a little color; continue this until required color is ob- 
tained. 

9. Change pads for fresh ones whenever they begin to 
grow rough and hard. 

10. Remember that the rubbing must be light and even, 
and that shellac will not admit of friction, the surface be- 
coming rough and clouded when hard rubbing is used in the 
first application. As the surface begins to dry, the pressure 
may be increased slightly (this is at the end of each applica- 
tion of oil, shellac, and color). 

Dents in wood may be removed in the following manner: 

Take several thicknesses of soft brown paper and soak in 

Method of ^^* water. Lay this wet pad on the dent, put 

zomoTing one or two thicknesses of wet cloth over this, 

dents in ^nd then lay a red-hot iron over all. As soon 

wood. 

as cloth and paper are nearly dry, wet and 
apply again, as before. If the dent is deep it will take sev- 
eral applications of the wet materials and hot iron to raise 
it. A dent in wood is only the layers pressed more closely 
together than is natural; the heat and moisture cause the 
fibers to swell and fill the original space. 

If the dent is small, a hot poker will answer for the work; 
on a large place a shovel may be used. When the dent is 
not deep, polishing with oil, shellac, and color, if needed, will 
answer all purposes. Follow the directions given for color 
and polish. 



TREATMENT OP WOOD FINISHES 283 



HOW TO MAKE PADS FOR WOOD FINISHING 

Make smooth, hard little rolls of cotton batting about the 
size of a small walnut; cover these with bits of old linen, 
cotton, or cheese-cloth. Leave the ends long enough to get 
a firm hold. Fasten by winding a thread round the cloth 
where it is drawn over the ball of cotton. 

The points to be especially careful of in making these 
pads are that the ball of cotton should be smooth and firm, 
and that the cloth must be drawn smoothly over it and 
tied securely. 

TO CLEAN AND RESTORE THE POLISH ON WOODS 

In the course of time finely polished woods become dull 
and cloudy; the dampness in the atmosphere also has this 
effect on polished surfaces. The brilliancy and luster may 
be restored by thorough rubbing with the proper appliances. 
The methods here given may be used on the finest finishes, 
be they oil or varnish; but the treatment is not intended for 
waxed surfaces. 

Rottenstone, pumice-stone, tripoli, all finely powdered, 
turpentine, paraffin-oil, alcohol, felt, soft cotton, ^ppii^ncei 
and linen cloths will be required for the work, necessary 
Willingness and strength to rub carefully and 5^"«jr 
thoroughly are also essential. 

Take a small block of wood about the size of a brick,— a 
brick, in fact, will do very well,— and cover it with several 
thicknesses of cotton batting; over this put sev- 
eral thicknesses of old cotton cloth, and finally the roller, 
lay on two or three thicknesses of old linen. The 
various layers may be sewed in place. This is the " rubber." 
Two pieces of felt, each about eight inches long and five 
wide, will be needed. 



284 HOME EGONOMIGS 

Mix together enough rottenstone and oil to make a paste 
the consistency of thin cream. Spread this on the sur- 
face to be polished, and rub with one of the 
** uSw pieces of felt, using at first a circular movement, 

poiiih. then rubbing across, and finally with, the grain 
of the wood. The oil and rottenstone should 
be renewed whenever needed, and on no account should the 
rubbing be continued when the rottenstone gets so dry that 
there is the least friction, which would cause slight markings 
on the varnish. When the movement of the felt begins to 
be slightly impeded, put a little more oil on the surface to 
be polished. When the desired luster has been obtained, 
continue to rub gently until all the oil and rottenstone have 
been worked off. Then rub with the clean felt until the 
surface is dry and brilliant. The finish is now cleaned and 
polished; but it will not keep in this condition if there is not 
a final dressing with oil. 

Wet a soft cloth with a mixture, half parafiin-oil and half 

turpentine. Rub the wood well with this, and let it stand 

about an hour; then sprinkle with the fine tripoli, 

dr/i^ of ^^^ '®^ ^* stand again an hour or more to absorb 
oil. ^^7 oil there may be on the surface of the finish. 
Wipe off the tripoli, and polish with the linen 
rubber, rubbing with the grain of the wood. 

When applying the oil and rottenstone with the felt, the 

pressure must not be too great, as there is danger of cutting 

Manner of through the vamish. The movement must be 

applying regular, and continued long enough to produce a 

tMi*^tc ^^^^ ^®^^ ^^ y^esit. Only a portion of a large sur- 
face should be done at a time. Pumice-stone may 
be used on oiled surfaces, or on finishes that are not very 
fine or that are very dirty. On a flat surface like a table 
the oil may be poured on, and the powdered rottenstone be 
sprinkled over it. If it is not convenient to use paraffin-oil, 
linseed-oil can be substituted. 



TREATMENT OP WOOD PINISHBS 285 

Instead of the oil and rottenstone or pumice-stone, the 
furniture-cleaner and -polisher may be used. 

The felt for applying the oils may be bought at a painter's 
supply shop. As it is expensive, after it has been used it 
should be washed thoroughly in hot soap and 
water, and rinsed in a hot solution of sal-soda, o^Sit"* 
then rinsed in plenty of clear water, and dried. 
Old felt hats may be used instead of the felt one gets at 
the paint-shops. 

There are other modes of polishing dulled surfaces, but I 
consider this the best, and will not, therefore, give the 
others. 

SUMMARY 

1. Mix oil and rottenstone to the consistency of thin 
cream. 

2. Spread some of this mixture on the surface to be pol- 
ished, and rub gently, regularly, and for a long time with a 
piece of felt, renewing mixture or oil when needed. 

8. Finish polishing with clean piece of felt. 

4. Oil, and let stand one hour. 

5. Sprinkle with tripoli, and let stand an hour or more. 

6. Wipe off tripoli, and polish with linen rubber. 

TO CLEAN THE WOODWORK OF FURNITURE 

Varnished woodwork, when it becomes very much soiled, 
may be washed with soap and water, if the varnish is un- 
broken. But if the varnish is worn off, or if there 
is a scratch deep enough to cut through the var- ^^^^J 
nish, water should not be used until the surface may be 
has been soaked in oil for some time. When the ^^J^ 
wood is unprotected by varnish or oil, the water woodwork, 
penetrates it, and makes a dark stain, which 
grows darker with time and spoils the appearance of the 



286 HOME ECONOMICS 

wood. It is necessary, therefore, to examine the wood care- 
fully before beginning to clean it. However, it is always 
safe to use the oil first, as it not only penetrates the wood, 
but it also softens the dirt. 

1* Pour some parafSn-oil in a saucer; dip a soft cloth in 
this and go over the soiled woodwork, making it quite wet 

Method of ^^*^ *^® ^^'' ^^ ^^^ Stand an hour or two. 
deaning 2. Make a strong suds with soap and water. 
^•^"^ Wet a woolen cloth in this, and wash the wood, 
'^'"^ using a good deal of pressure in rubbing the sm- 
face. When the woodwork is clean, wipe it dry. 

3. Put into a bottle one pint of paraffin-oil and half a pint 
of turpentine; shake well. Wet a soft cloth with this mix- 
ture, and go over the cleaned wood. Let it stand a little 
while to evaporate; then rub with a dry linen or cotton 
cloth, rubbing briskly. It gives the surface a finer polish 
if, after the rubbing with the linen cloth, a fresh linen cloth, 
wet with a mixture of one part oil and three parts alcohol, 
is rubbed lightly and quickly on the polished wood. Alco- 
hol or vinegar may be substituted for the turpentine, if the 
odor is disagreeable. 

When the woodwork does not require cleaning, but looks 
dull or faded, polish with the turpentine and oil. 

If a piece of furniture has stood near a window, register 

or other heating apparatus, the oil will be evaporated from 

that part that has been exposed to the heat of 

fg^ijii^j the sun or to hot air, and will become faded and 

flzposnreto full of fine lines. To remedy this, oil the surface 

€r*hot'Sr ^^^^ P^^® boiled linseed-oil, rubbing it in well. 

maybe * Several oilings may be required to bring back the 

"^^^ finish and color. If parts of furniture thus ex- 

linieed-oiL posed are watched, and oil is promptly applied as 

soon as it is needed, much trouble will be saved. 

"^^^^^^^^ Carvings and the grooved parts of furniture must 

oarvingi. be oiled with a small brush kept for this purpose. 



TREATMENT OF WOOD FINISHES 287 

The above methods are for oiled or varnished furniture. 
If the finish is wax, the cleaning must be done with turpen- 
tine and the surface polished with wax. (See Encaustic 
No. 1.) 

To clean the woodwork of waxed furniture, wet a woolen 
cloth with turpentine, and go over the soiled surface, rub- 
bing briskly. When all is cleaned, spread the xodean 
softened prepared wax on a woolen cloth, and woodwork 
rub this on the surface to be polished. Let «tf waxed 
it stand an hour, if possible; then rub with 
a brush; follow this by another rubbing with a woolen 
cloth. If this rubbing is followed by a brisk rubbing with 
cork, the luster will be much finer; but in any case the fric- 
tion must be thorough enough to remove all traces of the 
wax and leave a brilliant polished surface. While a thor- 
ough polishing of a surface finished in oil is always desirable, 
a moderate amount of friction will answer; but when wax is 
used, it is absolutely necessary that there is thorough rub- 
bing with some woolen substance. For this reason, unless 
one has a strong man to do the work, it is better to use 
the oil and turpentine, oil and alcohol, or oil and vinegar. 

The cork may be purchased at a paint-supply Cork for 
shop or at a chemical-supply shop. It comes in poli«hiiig. 
sheets or large disks. Before using it, make the surface 
smooth with fine sandpaper. 



CHAPTER XIV 

OILS: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR 

Lubricating oils. Cleaning oils. Oils used as foods and medicines. Cot- 
ton-seed oil. Castor-oil. Cod-liver oil. Spontaneous combustion. 

Oils are so continually in use in every department of the 
household that they are an important element in the domes- 
tic management. They enter into the composi- 
^^*^ tion of paints and varnishes, into the substances 
action and used in the finishing and cleaning of ^oods, met- 
a^Uoa- als, machinery, etc., and into the making of many 
Miiimtinl of our foods and medicines. Ignorance of their 
soui'ce, action, and application often leads to their 
wrong use and renders them worthless. 

As space is limited, it will only be possible to make the 
briefest mention of the oils most commonly used in and 
about the household. 

Oils may be divided into three classes—anima/, vegetable^ 
and mineral; and these, from their characteristics, are again 
classified s,s fixed and volatile. 

The term '' fixed ^ may be defined as made fast, firm, stable, 
not wandering. If we spill a few drops of oil on a paper, 
Definition and then expose the stain to the action of air and 

^'^atiie* ^^S^* ^^^ ^ ^^^ ^^y^> ^® ^^^ determine whether 

oUs. the oil is fixed or volatile. If it is a fixed oil the 

stain will be as apparent after this exposure as when it was 

288 



OILS: THEIR USB AND BEHAVIOR 289 

first made; sometimes it will even be darker. If, on the 
other handy all traces of the stain have disappeared, the oil 
is volatile; that is, it is unstable, and passes off by evapora- 
tion. We can make this test more quickly by placing the 
stain near a heated surface. 

All mineral oils are volatile; hence we can use them for 
cleaning and other purposes where it is desirable that all 
traces and odor of the oil should disappear quickly. 
The mineral oils are petroleum, which is found ^^. 
already formed in the earth in almost every quar- 
ter of the globe, and other oils obtained by the distillation 
of bituminous bodies, such as cannel-coal, coal-tar, etc. We 
are familiar with the products of these oils in the form of 
crude petroleum, kerosene, naphtha, gasolene, etc. 

The vegetable oils fall naturally into two classes— the /a^ 
oils and the essential oils. Of these the fat oils are fixed, 
and the essential oils are volatile. The essen- 
tial oils, of which there are many, are pro- ^**^^ 
duced in nearly every part of the various plants oUs. 
except in the cotyledon of the seed, where 
the fixed oil is found. These oils are obtained from the 
plant by pressure, by distillation, by solvents, and by macera- 
tion. The most familiar example we have of obtaining oil 
by pressure is the process by which the oil is extracted from 
the rinds of fruit. The thin yellow rind of lemons, oranges, 
or limes is finely divided and then subjected to great pres- 
sure. Or the method used in the kitchen is more common 
still: the rind is scraped off by the grater, or a piece of lump 
sugar is rubbed over the rind. In any case the object is to 
break the oil-ducts and press out the essential oil. Most of 
the essence or oil of commerce is obtained by distillation. 

By maceration is understood the process by which the 
essential oil of delicate flowers and plants is obtained. 
Melted fats have the power of absorbing essential oils from 
vegetable substances. The petals of flowers are placed in 

19 



290 HOME ECONOMICS 

melted fat and allowed to rest there until they have parted 
with their perfume. They are then removed, and fresh 
ones put in their place. This is continued until the fat has 
absorbed the required amount of perfume. In the kitchen 
this principle may be used to advantage in the cooking of 
certain vegetables. (See " Cause of Strong Odors, Flavors, 
and Colors in Vegetables.") 

The fixed vegetable oils are obtained from seeds and 

fruits. These are sometimes crushed and pressed cold, 

sometimes heated and pressed, and sometimes 

Dryingand boiled in water, to extract the oil. The oils pro- 

oUg. cured in this way may be divided into two classes 
—drying oils and non-drying oUs. 

Nearly all fixed oils absorb oxygen freely when exposed to 
the air. The effect of the oxygen is to cause the oils either 
to harden or to turn rancid. The oils that harden are called 
drying oils, and those that turn rancid are known as non- 
drying oils. The drying oils that the housekeeper has 
most to do with are the three forms of linseed-oil— common 
linseed-oil, cold-drawn oil, and boiled oil. 

The common linseed-oil is obtained from the crushed seeds 
heated nearly to the boiling-point and then pressed. This 
oil is brown in color. 

Cold-drawn linseed-oil is obtained by pressing 

cb«wn ^^^ crushed seeds without heat. This oil is of a 
linseed-oil. light color and is more expensive than the com- 
mon oil. 

Boiled linseed-oil is the pressed oil boiled for an hour or 

more with powdered litharge, sulphate of zinc, sugar of lead, 

or some other substance to increase the drying 

Boiled lin- 
eeed^U. P^wer. 

In oiling floors and other surfaces where it is 
important that the oil should dry quickly, the boiled linseed- 
oil should be used. Indeed, the boiled linseed-oil should 
always be used on the floors and inside finishes of the house. 



OILS: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR 291 

Alcohol dissolves linseed-oil, as do turpentine and kero- 
sene to some extent. When oiled surfaces, like floors, be- 
come dark and soiled because the boards were not 
properly polished after the oiling, they may be jj^?\^' 
cleaned with turpentine or kerosene, unless the linseed-oil. 
stain is of long standing, in which case alcohol 
may be used. Hot alcohol has a much greater solvent power 
than the cold. If the alcohol is to be used hot, it should be 
put in a bottle, which may be placed in a dish of tepid water. 
Heat the water gradually to the boiling-point. Keep the 
bottle in the hot water while applying the alcohol to the 
floor. 

Linseed-oil being a fixed oil, and containing a resinous 
substance, particles of dust are apt to attach themselves to 
the surface on which it has been used, unless there has been 
great care in polishing. By combining the linseed-oil with 
alcohol, turpentine, or even with kerosene, a volatile ele- 
ment is added, and the process of polishing and drying is 
hastened. 

For woodwork that requires a thorough oiling nothing but 
a little turpentine should be added; and for an outside ex- 
posure, like doors, piazza floors, etc., only the pure oil should 
be used, and in this case the ordinary oil answers all pur- 
poses. 

Paraffin-oil is a product of petroleum, or of the distillation 
of bituminous bodies. It is the oil that passes over after 
kerosene, and is a much heavier oil than the lat- 
ter. This oil must not be confounded with the ^^^ 
solid white paraffin, a great portion of which is 
obtained from petroleum and bituminous products. Nor 
must it be confused with the English paraffin, which is the 
kerosene manufactured from bituminous bodies. 

Paraffin is a pale-yellow oil. It contains little, if any, 
resinous substance, and it is excellent for polishing furni- 
ture or woodwork when a very fat oil is not required. It 



292 HOME ECONOMICS 

imty be used in the pure state, or mixed in any proportion 
with alcohol, turpentine, or vinegar. 

LUBRICATING OILS 

Some of the qualities essential in the lubricating oils in 
use in the household are: "(1) Freedom from a tendency to 
^^^^^^ gum or oxidize; (2) suflScient body to keep the sur- 
qnaiiUMin faces between which it interferes from coming in 
1^^^^ contact; (3) the greatest fluidity consistent with 
2; (4) absence of acid and other properties inju- 
rious to materials in contact with it " (James Cameron). 

The housekeeper will find the best sewing-machine oil 
sufficient for all lubricating purposes. Half a pint or even 
half a gill of this oil will last a long time. For 
^ ^^UX lawn-mowers and such heavily working machines 
dinoivo a good sewing-machine oil is all that is required. 
labt^^M. Even when exercising the greatest care in pur- 
chasing a lubricating oil, one sometimes gets 
one that is adulterated with a resinous oil. In that case the 
article oiled "gums up" and will run hard. Kerosene-oil 
will dissolve this gummy substance. Pour it on the article 
freely (first, of course, protecting floors and other near-by 
objects), and set the machinery, door-hinges, locks, or what- 
ever may have been "gummed," in rapid motion. Then 
clean oflf with a soft, clean cloth, and oil with the machine- 
oil. It must be remembered that kerosene merely cleans; 
it is not a lubricating oil. 

No drying oil, or intermediate oil, i. c, half -drying oil, 
such as castor-oil, cotton-seed oil, etc., should be used as a 
lubricating oil. 

CLEANING OILS 

Among the cleaning oils, the most important are gasolene, 
naphtha or benzene, benzole, and oil or spirits of turpentine. 



OILS: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR 293 

These oils are exceedingly volatile, and give off inflammable 
vapors. When using them for cleaning, the room oieaning 
in which they are should be well ventilated, and **?^J^^^^" 
care should be taken not to bring them near fire, inflam- 
lamps, candles, or any other light. matte. 

Oil or spirits of turpentine is made from the pitch-pine 
tree. The bark of the tree is removed, and the resinous 
liquid is collected and distilled with water. What ^^^ ^^^ 
passes over is oil or spirits of turpentine; the resi- be used in 
due remaining in the retorts is rosin. Oil of tur- oi«w^K ^ 
pontine, when fresh, has not a strong odor, and is 
clear in color. On exposure to the air it absorbs oxygen, 
darkens, becomes resinous, and acquires a strong odor. It 
should not be used for cleaning fabrics when it is old, as 
it will then leave a stain of its own. 

Turpentine dissolves grease, wax, and tar. It is useful 
in cleaning waxed surfaces, and is sometimes used in the 
laundry for whitening clothes. It is valuable for making 
preparations of either wax or oil, for polishing wood and 
tiles, and it is also valuable as a medicine. It is one of the 
articles that it is wise to have always in the house; it should 
be kept in a well-corked bottle. 

Benzene and naphtha. The substances sold under these 
two names are practically the same thing, although Benzene 
benzole, being a French term for benzene, is some- and naph- 
times sold under that name. 

Naphtha is a product of petroleum. It is the oil that 
passes over after gasolene and before kerosene. As it is 
exceedingly volatile and gives oflf inflammable vapors, the 
greatest care must be taken in using it in the house. 
Windows should be opened, that the vapors may pass out at 
once. 

If it is properly used it is one of the best friends the 
housekeeper has. It dissolves fats, turpentine, asphalt, and 
rubber. Being volatile, it may be poured on clothing, car- 



294 HOME EGONOMIGS 

pets, furniture, floors, etc., without fear, for in a few hours 

every trace of it will have disappeared. It also kills insects 

Qreat dan- *^^ vermin. But there is apt to be danger in its 

g«r in use, as the volatile vapors, when mixed with oxy- 

nn^tha. ^®°' ^^^ ®^ inflammable. 

owingtoiti With windows apen^ however, and an entire ab- 
^J^"™J^ sence of fire or light of any kind, there is no danger, 
t^ * and the housekeeper may clean her fabrics, pack 
Vaphfha ^way her furs, flannels, rugs, etc., with perfect 
wm eoctar- ease and safety by the aid of this agent, provided 
"^Jj* she superintends the work, or does it herself, and 
takes the precautions here outlined. After naph- 
tha has been used in a room, the windows of that room should 
be left open for several hours, or, better, they should remain 
open all day. If one finds that some room or bed in the 
house has become infested with bugs, two thorough applica- 
tions of naphtha will exterminate them. 

Articles that have been cleaned with naphtha should be 
aired for some time before they are brought near a lamp or 
fire. 

Benzok, or benzene, as it is sometimes called, is one of 
the products of coal-gas manufacture. It is made from 
coal-tar, and acts very much like naphtha. It 
p^Snrt of evaporates a little more rapidly, perhaps, and thus 
eoal-gas. is less likely to leave a trace of its use on delicate 
fabrics. 
Gasolene is a product of petroleum. It is a more volatile 
>il than naphtha. When petroleum is being purified, gaso- 
lene passes over at a lower temperature than 
be ezer- naphtha. It is an excellent agent for cleaning; 
oisedin the most delicate fabrics may be soaked and 
'^nf!^ washed in it. However, the same precautions 
that must be taken in using naphtha are re- 
quired in using gasolene. Gasolene-stoves should not be 
filled, moved, or jarred violently while lighted. 



OILS: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR 295 



OILS USED AS FOODS AND MEDICINES 

The oils used as foods and medicines belong to the non- 
drying or intermediate class of oils. The non-drying oils 
absorb oxygen, as do the drying oils; but the ef- ^fl^tof 
feet of the oxygen is to cause them to grow ran- oxygen on 
cid; therefore, in keeping them, they should be ^^^^^^^ 
protected from the air. 

Olive-oil, also known as sweet-oil or salad-oil, is made from 
the unripe fruit of the olive-tree. There are several grades of 
this oil, the finest being the virgin oil. In making oiivw)a 
this oil the fruit is torn, not crushed, and very little, 
if any, pressure is used. This process gives an oil of the finest 
and most delicate flavor. By this means only a small portion 
of the oil is extracted from the fruit. The second grade of 
oil is made by pressing the cold pulp of the fruit from which 
the virgin oil has been extracted, in bags or baskets made 
from some inodorous material. The third grade is made 
from the pressed pulp, which is mixed with cold water and 
pressed again. This pulp is treated with water once more, 
heated, and pressed. 

Another method is to subject the pressed fruit to a gen- 
tle heat after the virgin oil has been extracted, and to press 
the oil out. Still another method is to mix the crushed 
fruit with boiling water and then press. Sometimes the 
crushed fruit is allowed to ferment before the pressing, or 
the fermented fruit is boiled in water and the fat skimmed 
off. Finally the different waters from which the oil has 
been skimmed are allowed to stand, and the particles of oil 
that collect on them are skimmed off. This last is the poor- 
est of all the oils, and is known as the oil of the infernal 
regions. It is used for oiling stone and tiled floors, and in 
making soap. 

Much of the olive-oil sold at the present day is adulterated 



296 HOME EGONOMIGS 

with other oils, such as cottonnseed oil, lard-oil, nut-oil, 
poppy-oil, etc. Pure olive-oil has a slightly greenish-yellow 

tinge, little odor, and does not become rancid 

ttni ttDd" ®^^y- When chilled to the freezing-point it 

odor. begins to congeal in a granular mass. It may 

be heated to 600° F. without burning, and it 
is one of the pleasantest and most healthful of all the oils 
used as foods. Olive-oil should be kept well corked in a 
cool, dark place. The cork, on being removed from a bottle 
of fresh oil, should be washed, and the inside of the neck of 
the bottle wiped with a clean cloth. Sometimes the cork is 

dipped into an inferior oil to make it slip into the 

^jJSjj bottle with ease; hence the necessity of cleaning 

good oU. the neck and cork, that the oil in the bottle may 

not be contaminated. Formerly we depended 
upon Italy and France for our supply of oil, but now we get 
a good article from California. 

COTTON-SEED OIL 

This oil is made from the decorticated seeds of the cot- 
ton-plant. In its present commercial form it is of compara- 
tively recent date. 

The refined oil is of a pale-yellow tone; it has a very slight 

odor and a nutty flavor. It solidifies at about the freez- 

^jjj^^j^^^jj^j^ ing-point. Cotton-seed oil belongs to the class 

iftios of that stands between the drying and non-drying 

oottoMoed Qjig ^i iijg i^QQi 3j^(j purest it is often employed 

as a substitute for olive-oil. It has not the fine, 
delicate flavor or texture of olive-oil, and can never replace 
it in the more delicate cookery; but it is a pure, healthful 
vegetable oil, and one which will grow in favor as a food 
adjunct. 

This oil is combined with beef suet and other suets, and 
sold under various names. The initial syllable of the names 



OII^: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR 297 

of these compounds usually indicates that the cotton-seed 
oil is one of the ingredients. The addition of these suets 
gives a certain amount of solidity to the com- g . 
pound, making it possible to use it for pur- added to 
poses for which the liquid oil would be im- ^7f,^ 

.' •r^ solidity. 

practicable. 

When the oil itself, or one of its compounds, is used for 
frying, the odor remains in the room more persistently than 
that of any ordinary frying-mixture. No doubt the manu- 
facturers of the oil will overcome this, as they have many 
other defects. 

The oil should be kept closed from the air and in a cool 
place. 

CASTOR-OIL 

This oil belongs to the class of drying oils. When pure 
it is thick, clear, and of a pale-yellow color. When old or of 
inferior quality it is a greenish brown. Exposure to the air 
and light turns it dark and rancid. It is one of the safest 
and least irritating laxatives employed in the practice of 
medicine. Physicians are coming back to a more general 
use of it than has been the custom for a number of years. 

A dose of castor-oil is a nauseating one, unless thoroughly 
disguised. There are several methods of doing this. Some 
liquid with a pronounced flavor is poured into a . 

glass, the amount of castor-oil necessary for the methods 
dose is poured on this, then the oil is covered with wed in 
another layer of the liquid, so that the patient the^* 
takes the masked oil without tasting it. Lemon- 
juice, strong coflfee, brandy, whisky, etc., are some of the 
agents used for this purpose. 

COD-LIVER OIL 

This oil is obtained from the liver of the cod. The best 
quality for medicinal purposes is manufactured with great 



298 HOME EGONOMIGS 

care. The livers are taken from the fresh cod, those that 
are not perfectly healthy being discarded, and the selected 
Kethod of ^^^®^ ^^® freed from membrane and thoroughly 

oijtaining washed. They are then chopped fine and put into 

co^Ter ^ vessel which is surrounded with a steam-jacket, 
and they are subjected to a heat of about 100®. 
The oil is drawn oflf and filtered, after which it is ready 
to be packed into air-tight vessels. Cod-liver oil is sweet 
and of a bright amber color. This bright amber color 
should be the test in purchasing the oil for medicinal 
purposes. 

Cod-liver oil is a most valuable food adjunct in pulmonary 
diseases, or in any condition of the body in which fat is not 
properly assimilated. It is often readily digested when 
the amount of other foods necessary to nourish the body 
cannot be taken. 

Nonziih- ^^ effect is to nourish the tissues of the body, 
ingefbotof thus giving strength; and in cases of consumption 

«od-Uver jij checks the exudations of tubercular matter, and 
also diminishes the cough and perspiration. 
This oil should be kept excluded from the air. 

SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION 

" Some of the fixed oils, especially linseed-oil, rape-seed 
oil, and olive-oil, when absorbed by porous substances and 
freely exposed to the atmosphere, unite with oxygen so 
rapidly as to generate a considerable degree of heat. Hence 
paper, tow, cotton-waste, wool, shoddy, hemp, straw, shav- 
ings, etc., if slightly soaked with such oils and left in a heap, 
inflame spontaneously. 

" Spontaneous combustion ensues when a handful of cot- 
ton-waste is imbued with oil and placed in an air-bath at a 
temperature of 130° F. to 200° F. Boiled linseed-oil re- 
quires an hour and a quarter, raw linseed-oil four hours, 



OILS: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR 299 

lard-oil four hours, refined rape-seed oil about nine hours, to 
inflame. 

" Gellatly found that an admixture of twenty per cent, of 
mineral oil retards combustion, and fifty per cent, prevents 
it completely." ("Oils and Varnishes," by James Cameron; 
London, J. & A. Churchill,^ 



CHAPTER XV 

STAINS 

Stains on fabrics. Stains on wood. 

STAINS ON FABRICS 

Stains of all kinds are of constant occurrence in the 

household. There are many simple remedies for removing 

most of them. The simplest methods should al- 

toy^it ^^y® ^^ ^^^^ ^** R^°^®^^®r that the chemical 
the simple which removes the stain will generally attack the 
lemediee^ fabric, and therefore should be resorted to only 
ing Btaini. when harmless remedies have failed. Nearly all 
stains are easily removed when first made; after 
they have dried in the fabric, or, worse still, if they have 
been washed with soap, the stain is fixed and is difiicult to 
remove. 

Water is one of the very best agents for removing stains 
when they are first made, and it has this advantage: it does 
not injure the material. 

Chemicals are very valuable when used properly; but it 
must be remembered, when using them, that the moment 

Value of *^®y ^^^® ^^^® *^®^^ ^^^'^ ^^ removing the stain 
chemicals they should be removed by rinsing in abundance 

^'P'^'^y of cold water, this followed by a neutralizing 
agent, which should also be followed by a thor- 
ough rinsing. If an alkali, such as caustic soda, caustic 

potash, or lime, is used, the neutralizer may be a few drops 

300 



STAINS 301 

of acetic acid in a pint of water; or, failing in that, any acid, 
like vinegar or lemon-juice, may be employed, in which case 
teaspoonfuls will be required to take the place of the drops 
of the acetic acid; that is to say, five or six teaspoonfuls of 
vinegar or lemon-juice will be required to replace one of 
acetic acid. 

In cases where acids have been employed to remove stains, 
neutralize with a solution of ammonia— about a tablespoonful 
of household ammonia to a pint of water. 

If one knows the nature of the stain, the work of remov- 
ing it may be undertaken more intelligently and with better 
success than if working in the dark. The agent ^^ ^^^ 
that will generally remove grease-spots— warm know the 
water and soap— will often fix fruit and other t?*^^**^ 

stains. lemovo it 

Cold, tepid, or hot water may be used on most "JSS?"*' 
stains, and although it will not always remove 
them, still it will rarely fix them. Blood stains, however, 
are fixed by hot water, and softened and partially removed 
by cold or tepid water. 

Sometimes the agent that of itself makes a stain is useful 
in loosening or changing the character of another stain, as, 
for example, the wetting of a black-ink stain with red ink, 
or when lard is rubbed on the black stain that sometimes 
gets on articles made on a sewing-machine. 

When an article becomes stained, the first care is to learn 
the nature of the stain; then the remedies may be applied. 

Ink Stains.— Nearly all ink stains may be removed if 
treated at once; but even then there is a great difference in 
the readiness with which the various preparations of ink 
jield to prompt and careful treatment. For example, a 
stain from some stylographic ink may be removed by thor- 
ough washing with soap and water, while in the case of 
others the stain must be soaked in milk or some other sub- 
stance for a long time, even after it has had a thorough 



302 HOME ECONOMICS 

washing in water. The stains from some makes of ink yield 
only to a chemical, and even the strongest chemicals are 
sometimes powerless. 

Cold or tepid water never fixes a stain; neither does milk; 
therefore these are always safe to use in removing the 
greater part of the ink. If it is necessary to use other agents 
after this, the work will be more rapid, and there will be 
less danger to the fabric than if the chemical were required 
to remove all the ink. 

When ink is spilled, if it is an article that may be put 

into a basin of water, do this immediately, rinsing the stain 

in repeated waters until no more ink can be re- 

iSiL^^ moved in that way; then soak in hot or cold milk, 
iOAkingin sweet or sour. This treatment may remove the 
'X" stain at once, or it may require several days' soak- 
ing in the milk. In some cases, however, there 
will remain a distinct dark stain, which may be removed by 
soaking a few minutes in Javelle water or in a weak solu- 
tion of chloride of lime, or acids may be employed to remove 
the stain. 

Should the ink be spilled on a garment, carpet, floor, 
table, or other article that cannot be washed and soaked in 
How to ro- ^^^ manner, cover the stain at once with some 
more ink- absorbent, like starch, flour, meal, shredded 
ab^ticn ^^lo**i^^g"P2^per, etc. These substances will ab- 
sorb the superfluous ink and prevent it from 
spreading over a larger surface. After a few minutes re- 
move the flrst application of absorbent, and cover the spot 
Uniura ^^^ fresh material. Continue to do this until 
lemon to the substance applied is no longer soiled by 

""^tl* *^® ^^^' ^^ y^^ ^^^® ^ lemon* at hand, cut off 

one end and take off about an inch of the 

peel, going over the stained surface with the cut end of the 

lemon, rubbing gently. When the lemon becomes soiled. 



STAINS 303 

cut it off, and go over the stain as before; continue this, 
paring the lemon a little at a time, and trimming off the 
end as it becomes soiled. If this has removed all the ink, 
rinse the spot with cold or tepid water, using a sponge or 
soft cloth. 

Should there be no color to injure in the stained article, 
the surface may be sprinkled with common salt before each 
application of the lemon. 

The foregoing method is for fresh stains. Any of the fol- 
lowing methods may be employed for old stains. 

1. Lemon-Juice and Salt— Spread common salt on the 
stain, and wet with lemon-juice; place in the sun. Repeat 
every day until the stain disappears, rinsing the spot in clean 
water before each new application of salt and lemon. When 
the stain is removed, wash the fabric, and rinse thoroughly. 

2. Oxalic Acid.— With a sponge or piece of soft cloth, rub 
the stain gently with a strong solution of oxalic acid. When 
the stain disappears, rinse thoroughly, and neutralize with 
weak ammonia water. Or wet the finger in water, dip it in 
powdered oxalic acid, and rub gently on the stained spot; con- 
tinue this until the stain disappears. If heat can be applied, 
the stain will disappear more quickly. Wash and neutralize. 

3. Oxalic Acid and Cream of Tartar.- Mix together one 
teaspoonful of powdered oxalic acid and one of cream of 
tartar. Spread a little of the powder on the stain, and 
moisten with lemon- juice or water; rub gently with the fin- 
ger; repeat until the stain is removed. Do this with heat, 
if possible. Wash and neutralize. 

In the three foregoing methods the work is hastened if 
the material worked upon is warm. If the spot How to ap- 
is not large, the heat can be applied in this man- ^^^gnSl**^ 
ner: put a plate over a kettle of hot water, and spots, also 
spread the stained part of the article on this; then ^^ J^f* 
work as directed. Use water or lemon-juice hot. tare. 



304 HOME EGONOMIGS 

If the stain is on a carpet, floor, or piece of furniture, 
first make the spot warm by placing a warm iron or any 
other warm substance on it; then fill a flat-bottomed earthen 
or china basin with boiling water; wet the stained spot with 
the mixture to be used, then place the hot basin over it. In 
about two minutes remove the basin, and rub the spot with 
fresh mixture; cover again with the hot dish. Follow this 
until the stain disappears. 

It must be remembered that oxalic acid is a poison, and 
should be so marked, whether it is in the liquid or the pow- 
dered state. 

With Eed Ink.— Wet the ink stain with red ink, and wash 
in clear water, then in soap and water. This method will 
remove some ink stains, but not all. 

With Muriatic Acid,— Wet the stain, and spread it over a 
bowl of boiling-hot water. Rub the spot gently with a glass 
stopper wet with the acid, then plunge the spot in the hot 
water. It may be necessary to repeat this several times. 
Rinse the article in ammonia water, and then in several clear 
waters. 

With Javelle Water.— Cover the stain with Javelle water, 
and let it soak until the stain disappears. Sometimes this 
will be in a few minutes, and again it may take a long time. 
There are but few stains that resist this treatment. Rinse 
in ammonia water and in clear water. 

With Turpentine.- Soak the stain in turpentine and then 
rub gently. This may be used on colored fabrics. The 
acids and other strong chemicals should not be used on 
colored articles. 

Bun and air Sometimes the sun and air will complete what 
wUl often the agents used have only begun, and a stain that 
^^ seemed to be fixed indelibly often disappears when 
hung in the open air. 

Ink stains on painted or varnished surfaces may generally 
be removed by encaustic No. 2. When the wood is unfin- 



STAINS 305 

ished the stain sinks into the fibers, and must be removed 
with a strong solution of oxalic acid. When the stain is 
obstinate, add a teaspoonful of cream of tartar to a gill of 
the oxalic-acid solution. 

Blood Stains,— When the article stained is one that may 
be washed with soap and water there is no difficulty in re- 
moving blood stains. Soak the article in cold or tepid 
water; wash from this water, and then wash in warm water, 
using plenty of soap. A white fabric may be boiled. If the 
stain is on a fabric or surface that cannot be washed, cover 
with wet starch. When the starch dries, rub it off, and re- 
peat the dose of wet starch; continue this until the stain 
disappears. 

Oreen Stains, from grass or other vegetable substances, 
may be removed with alcohol or kerosene. Wash the stain 
in kerosene (it will turn yellow), then wash with soap and 
water, and the stain will disappear; or wash in alcohol. 

Soot Stains.— These stains must always be treated with a 
dry solution if the stain is on a carpet or other fabric. Rub 
the spot with any of the following materials (continue re- 
moving the soiled material and add fresh until the stain 
has disappeared): starch, flour, corn-meal, fullers' earth, and 
salt. 

When the stain is on marble or wood, remove the greater 
part of it with dry materials, and then wash with soap and 
hot water. 

Ennning Colors.— -When an article has been stained by 
coming in contact with a colored fabric that has been wet 
with water, as a rule the stain may be soaked out. As soon 
as possible after discovering the accident, put the article to 
soak in plenty of cold water; at the end of ten or twelve 
hours wash it out of this water, and dry in the sun. 

Iodine Stains.— Wash the stain with alcohol, then rinse in 
clear water, if the material may be washed. 

Vaseline Stains.— The stains from vaseline are most diffi- 

20 



306 HOME EGONOMIGS 

cult to remove. Ether seems to be the only liquid that will 
dissolve vaseline. Sponge the stain with it. This is too 
expensive an agent to use in large quantities. 

IroiL Sort may be removed by muriatic acid, oxalic acid, or 
lemon and salt. Have a bowl of boiling water. Spread the 
stained place over this; touch with the muriatic or oxalic 
acid, and when the stain changes to a bright yellow dip it in 
the water. Rinse the fabric in ammonia water and then 
in clear water. The salt and lemon-juice may be applied in 
this manner or on a hot plate, or the wet stain may be put 
in the sun. Being a weaker agent than the muriatic or 
oxalic acid, the lemon and salt take a longer time to re- 
move the rust. To remove rust from iron or steel, wet the 
stain with sweet-oil, then cover with powdered quicklime. 
In a day or two rub off the mixture. If all the rust has not 
disappeared, repeat the application of oil and lime, then clean 
with oil and rottenstone, if the articles happen to be of 
steel; if common utensils, wash in strong soda-water, rinse 
with soap-suds, and wipe very dry. 

Fruit Stains.— Spread the stained article over a large 
bowl, and pour boiling water through it until the stain dis- 
appears; or soak the stain for a short time in Javelle water. 
Another method is to soak the article in a weak solution of 
oxalic acid. The last two methods are to be employed only 
when the boiling water has failed, which it rarely does if 
used at once, except in the case of peaches, which make a 
stain very difficult to remove. Fruit stains may be removed 
with the fumes of sulphur. Wet the stain. Make a small 
funnel of stiff paper, and cut a piece from the small end; then 
place a bit of sulphur in a saucer, and set it on fire, cover- 
ing it with the funnel. Hold the wet stain over the small 
opening, and when clean rinse thoroughly. The work must 
be done by an open window, and the operator must be care- 
ful not to inhale the fumes. When you have finished, ex- 
tinguish the burning sulphur by covering it with a piece of 



STAINS 307 

wet paper. A small stain may be removed by burning a 
sulphur match under the wet spot. 

Wine Stains.— Cover the spot with salt, and at the first 
opportunity pour boiling water through it. Should the stains 
have become fixed from having been washed with soap, use 
any of the methods given for fruit stains. 

Tea and CofiTee Stains.— Treat these the same as fruit 
stains. 

Chocolate and Cocoa Stains.— Wash with soap and tepid 
water. 

Paint and VamisL— Alcohol and turpentine dissolve these 
two stains. Use turpentine on coarse fabrics, and alcohol 
on delicate ones. If there is a suggestion of a stain after 
the paint or varnish is removed, sponge the spot with chlo- 
roform or ether. 

Grease-Spots.— When an article is washable, grease-spots 
may be removed with soap and water. Grease-spots may 
generally be removed by the application of a substance that 
has an aflinity for grease. The simplest of all methods for 
removing grease is by absorption. Powdered French chalk 
or fullers' earth, mixed to a paste with water or turpentine, 
and spread on the grease-spot, will absorb it. This should 
be allowed to stand for several days, and the application 
then brushed off. Sometimes a second application of the 
paste may be necessary. For dark materials ox-gall is 
sometimes used with the turpentine arid fullers' earth. If 
the ox-gall is decolorized, it may be used on light materials. 

Blotting-paper may be put under and over the grease-spots; 
a warm iron should be placed on the top sheet of paper; 
change the paper until all the grease has been absorbed. 
The spot may then be lightly sponged with chloroform or 
ether. 

Candle-grease should always be scraped from the surface 
of the article before an absorbent or other agent is used. 

When the fabric is very delicate, as, for example, light 



308 HOME EGONOMIGS 

silks or cloth, try dry French chalk. Spread it on the stain, 

cover with blotting-paper, and if time will not permit its 

standing for twenty-four hours or more, use a 

fjfd^ta warm iron, 
ikbiifli. Ether, benzene, naphtha, chloroform, turpen- 

tine, and alcohol all dissolve grease. Only the 
most volatile agents should be used on delicate colors; chlo- 
roform, ether, benzene, naphtha, and alcohol are, in the or- 
der given, the most volatile. Alcohol is more liable to affect 
the color than are the other agents. 

It must be remembered that these liquids dissolve the 
grease, and that the operator must remove it by sponging 
the spot gently. Well-washed cheese-cloth is one of the 
best fabrics to rub with, as it does not leave lint, and is so 
cheap that one may use a clean piece with every application. 

When cleaning with any of the dissolving agents it is im- 
portant that the diluted grease does not spread over a larger 
surface than the original spot. Spread the fab- 
towotJ ric, and place a piece of blotting-paper under the 
ihegreue stain. Spread a ring of French chalk or fullers' 
■P**^"* earth around the grease-spot ; then wet a cloth with 

falnio. the cleaner, and rub gently toward the center of 
the spot. Work in this manner, changing the 
cleaning-cloth frequently, until the spot has disappeared. 
Rub gently with a dry cloth until the spot is perfectly dry. 
If any of the less volatile agents have been used, and there 
is a slight ring around the cleaned spot, sponge gently with 
chloroform. 

Acid Stains.— When any common acid, such as lemon- juice, 
vinegar, muriatic acid, etc., is spilled on a colored fabric, it 
often changes the color. If the spot is lightly sponged with 
a dilute solution of ammonia,— one tablespoonful of house- 
hold ammonia to four of cold water,— the color will be re- 
stored. The work must be done carefully, only touching the 
changed spot with the ammonia preparation. 



STAINS 309 

Alkali Stains. —Stains made with the ordinary alkalis 
should be sponged lightly with a diluted acid, vinegar, acetic, 
or muriatic. Let the preparation be very weak, and sponge 
the spot lightly. 

White boards, matting, etc., spot a reddish brown when 
liquid potash is spilled on them. Wash such spots with 
dilute muriatic acid, one tablespoonful of the acid to two of 
water; then sponge with clear water. 

Caidion.—WhQn mixing muriatic or sulphuric acid with 
water, always add the acid to the water a little at a time. 
Great heat is generated by the combination of the water 
and acid. 

Pitch, Tar, Wheel-Orease Stains.— Spread lard on such 
stains to soften them; then wet with turpentine. With a 
knife gently scrape off all the loose dirt. Wet again with 
turpentine and remove the dirt with the knife. Continue this 
until all the loose dirt has been removed; then sponge with 
turpentine, and rub gently until dry. If the colors are 
light, finish by sponging with chloroform. 

Mildew.— The removal of this kind of stain is more or 
less diflScult, depending upon the thoroughness with which 
the fabric has been affected by the mildew. Light and 
recent stains may often be removed by wetting them, rub- 
bing on soap, and then covering the spots with wet starch. 
Spread the article in the sun, and renew the application of 
starch and soap frequently. 

Chloride of lime and Javelle water are both effective agents 
for the removal of mildew. In light cases the stain may 
disappear in less than half an hour, but where the stain is 
of long standing it may take twelve or more hours. Soak 
the article in Javelle water or a solution of chloride of lime 
until the stain disappears; then rinse thoroughly in several 
waters. (See "Javelle Water" and "Chloride of Lime.") 
This treatment is only for white fabrics. 

Scorched Stains.— Wet the scorched place, and rub soap 



310 HOME ECONOMICS 

on it. Spread in the sun. Cover the spot with a thin mix- 
ture of starch and water. It may requu-e several applica- 
tions of the soap and water and starch. 

STAINS ON WOOD 

Wood, finished and unfinished, is easily stained by various 
substances. In the unfinished wood the staining substance 
sinks into the pores and is difficult to remove; but, on the 
other hand, chemicals and other substances may be used 
with greater freedom and safety on unfinished surfaces than 
on varnished and painted woods, marbles, etc. 

Alcohol dissolves the gums from which varnishes are made. 

Therefore, if alcohol, or any substance of which alcohol forms 

a large part, as perfumery, sweet spirits of niter, 

^^ etc., is spilled on a varnished surface, the varnish at 

once begins to soften. The purer the alcohol, the 

more rapidly it dissolves the gum. If one attempts to wipe the 

spot after the softening has begun, the varnish comes off on 

the cloth. Instead of wiping off the alcohol, neutralize it 

by pouring on some oil. Any kind will do, but sweet-oil, 

paraffin-oil, or linseed-oil is to be preferred. 

A surface that has been stained white with alcohol, or 
any alcoholic substance, may often be restored to its former 
To remove ^^^^^ ^^^ polish by rubbing it with kerosene, with 

white oil and turpentine, or with oil and alcohol. If the 

****^^JcS!*" ^^^^ is very deep, use oil and rottenstone or the 
Furniture Cleaner and Polisher (see recipe). 
When the surface has been made rough as well as stained, 
rub it gently with the finest emery-paper, dust, oil, and then 
To rexnore polish with rottenstone and oil. 
anTiSSli Stains made by heat may, if they are not deep 
made by and are of short standing, be removed by rubbing 
^®**' them with hot milk. Kerosene, or any of the 
methods given for alcohol stains, may be used. 



STAINS 311 

Ink may be removed from finished surfaces by rubbing the 
spot with encaustic No. 2. Oxalic acid is also an efScient 
remedy. It may be poured on the spot, allowed 
to stand awhile, and then wiped off. If that does ^^"^J 
not remove the stain wholly, add more acid, and trom wood, 
rub with a soft cloth. Sometimes several appli- 
cations of the acid may be necessary. This is particularly 
the case with a porous substance, like unfinished wood. 

Black stains caused by water or other liquids soaking into 
wood may be removed by pouring the oxalic acid on them, 
as suggested in the treatment of ink stains, x^j^move 
The acid removes the color also, so that it should stams 
not be used when a less powerful agent will an- ^^^ ^ 
swer. Of course, if the color is taken out it must ' 

be restored. (See " To Restore Color and Finish to Woods.") 

Grease stains on oiled, painted, or varnished surfaces 
may generally be removed by hot water and soap; on the 
unfinished wood this is not so easy a matter. A 
more certain method is to absorb the grease by ^ST* 
some substance, or to combine it with an alkali; 
both of these remedies may be used at the same time. A 
hot solution of potash may be poured on the grease-stained 
board, or, if one has wood-ashes, a quart of ashes and a quart 
of water may be simmered together for an hour, and then 
poured on the spot. If the grease stain is from hot fat, these 
solutions will have to be renewed several times. 

These strong alkalis leave a dark or yellow stain grease hy 
Dn the white boards. To avoid this, make the so- alwbrption 
lution into a thick paste with lime. This paste SkaS 
ehould stand on the floor at least twelve hours. 
On handsome floors use fullers' earth and a weak solution 
9f sal-soda. 



CHAPTER XVI 

MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 

Some points on laying floor-coverings. The finishing, filling, and staining 
of floors. How to prepare the filler. Staining with chemicals. The 
preparation and application of stains. Summary. Points on mixing 
stains. Stains made from colors ground in oil. Stains made from colors 
in powder. To graduate the stains. Things important to remember. 
Gluing furniture and other articles. How to mend plaster casts and pic- 
ture-frames. To clean plaster casts. To wax and stain casts. Care of 
small marbles and alabaster. To clean bronzes. To polish the brass 
trimmings of furniture. Some uses of lime-water. Chloride of lime. 
Liquid soda. Javelle water. Carbolic acid. Solution of oxalic acid. 
Furniture-cleaner and -polisher. Encaustic No. 1. Encaustic No. 2. 
Wax for polishing furniture. Materials for care of furniture and floors. 
Fullers' earth. To clean with fullers' earth. To make scouring-balls. 
To clean with scouring-balls. How to put new linings in boots and shoes. 
To clean combs and brushes. To clean coat collars. Aids in darning 
large holes. How to revive and straighten whalebone. To prevent stains 
showing through whitewash or paper. To prevent the corners of rugs 
from curling. How to heat inflammable substances. Precautions to 
be taken in cleaning. Frames for dress-waists and men's clothing. 
Convenient clothes-rack. Steel wool and steel shavings. Insects and 
vermin. Cockroaches. Thermometers in the kitchen. The melting- 
point of some metals and alloys. The melting-point of some fats and 
sugar. Bacteriology. Household accounts, and the division of the income. 

SOME POINTS ON LAYING FLOOR-COVERINGS 

Carpet.— The durability and appearance of carpets, as 

well as the comfort of those walking on them, depend largely 

upon the manner in which the carpet is laid. Seldom can 

an amateur do this work as well as a trained workman, and 

312 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 313 

although one may save a few dollars by laying the carpet 
one's self, it will be an expensive kind of economy unless it 
is well done. 

A carpet of any kind that does not lie. perfectly flat gets 
twice as much wear as one that fits snugly to the j^^oesgitv 
floor. A loose carpet moves about under the feet; of smoothly 
and a stiff material, like oil-cloth, linoleum, or laid oar- 
matting, cracks in the slight folds that are made. 

The surface on which the carpet is laid has much to do 
with its durability. If the floor is rough and uneven, the 
carpet will not wear as long as if laid over a smooth 
surface. 

Woolen carpets should always have a lining under them; 
the smoother and more even the lining, the better. There 
are many varieties of manufactured linings that 
are excellent for this purpose. If one cannot ca^Sts!' 
afford the prepared linings, thick layers of news- 
papers will answer. The regularly made pads should be 
used on the stairs. 

The floor on which the carpet is to be laid must be mea- 
sured accurately. If the carpet has a pattern, it should be 
studied carefully so that the breadths may be if^^^h^ng 
joined with the figures matching. Allow for figures 
turning in at the ends. In sewing the carpet be "^^^^^ 
careful to get it firm and strong, and see that it does not 
full in the seam. 

Lay the lining, and fasten it in place with the smallest 
kind of a tack. Spread the carpet in position. Begin at 
one end, driving a few large tacks half-way into 
place, so that they may be easily drawn out. ^a:^^' 
This is .to hold the carpet until it is tacked carpet, 
around the fireplace,, in case there is one. Now 
with large tacks get the carpet laid smoothly around the 
mantel, then tack it regularly. Work back from the mantel 
to the end where the carpet is held in place with the large 



314 HOME EGONOMIGS 

tacks. Readjust the end, and tack it firmly, drawing the 
carpet very tight as you tack it. 

Begin at the other side of the mantel, and tack that side. 
The carpet being tacked at one end and one side, it must 
now be stretched, pulling it from the tacked sides and ends. 
Put in large tacks, which may be drawn out again, to hold 
it in position. 

Begin tacking at the opposite end of the room, using the 
stretcher continually; then finish by tacking the sides, still 
using the stretcher. Two people can lay a carpet better 
than one, because one can tack while the other holds the 
carpet firmly in place. 

The most careful measurements must be taken, first for 
the lengths of the carpet, and next for the places 

eueftiUy. *^^* °^^^* ^^ cut— for example, to fit round a 

mantel, doorway, or register. 

If there is a register, the space to be left open should be 

Xaanerof measured and marked with chalk. The center of 

Jl^^„ the space may then be pierced by the shears, and 

register, the cutting done like this. 




Fig. 51. 

following the dotted lines. The pieces may be turned under, 

and if at any time there should be need of changing the 

carpet to another room, they may be darned together. In 

fitting the carpet to angles and jogs, the cutting should be 

done, when possible, in such a manner that the places cut 

may afterward be sewed together, if necessary. 

Hatting.— If the floor on which matting is to be laid is 

To lay iiot smooth, cover it with papers. Cut the pieces 

mattiiig. of matting long enough to admit of their being 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 315 

turned under. When a half-breadth must be used, the side 
that is cut should be bound and placed next to the wall. 
One breadth of matting should never lap over another. 

When of the best quality, Canton mattings wear as well 
as a Brussels carpet. The breadths are never sewed to- 
gether; they may be laid so smoothly as to seem almost a 
part of the floor. The cheaper grades, being woven loosely, 
do not rest so firmly on the floor, and are easily broken. 
They are expensive at any price. 

Japanese mattings, are very soft, pliable, and beautiful. 
The best are woven on a cotton or lin^n warp. They are 
sometimes sewed together like a woolen carpet, 
and are also tacked down edge to edge, as in the ^^SSS! 
case of the Canton mattings. When sewed they 
do not lie as smoothly as when each breadth is tacked sep- 
arately. Whether the mattings are sewed or tackfid, pains 
should be taken to have them fit the floor as 
closely as possible. In laying matting, use the j^J^^ 
double tacks when two edges come together, and mattingi. 
the single ones for the outside edges. When 
binding is used on a cut edge, match the shade of the mat- 
ting as nearly as possible. Old hoUand shades make an 
excellent binding for matting. 

Pretty mats can be made of the Japanese matting. Cut 
the mats the size desired, draw out strands at 
both ends sufiicient to make a fringe, and over- matting, 
cast the edges. 

It is a good plan to purchase enough of the matting to cut 
up for these mats, which may be placed where there is the 
most wear. They are so fine and thin that they seem almost 
a part of the floor-covering. 

Oil-Cloth and Linolenm.— These coverings always stretch 
after they have been on the floor awhile. When measuring 
them, an allowance of half an inch should be made on all 
sides for stretching. After they have been in place a few 



316 HOME EGONOIOGS 

weeks, it may be found necessary to trim the edges an inch 

or more. If the carpet begins to bulge up any- 

of SmSul where, immediately examine the edges, and you 

and oO- will find that they are pressing against the walls. 

^2efcu '^^® trimming of the edges should be done at 

once; for if the covering lies too full, even for a 

short time, it will begin to crack, and its durability will be 

greatly diminished. 

THE FINISHING, FILLING, AND STAINING OF FLOORS 

The workmen who lay the floor generally finish it ready 
for the polisher. This is the case with all fine floors, but 
every one cannot afford perfectly made and finished fioors. 
Many people would be glad to dispense with carpets, if they 
knew how to finish the ordinary floor so that it would look 
well and could be cared for with ease. This chapter is 
written for such people. 

The kind and quality of wood determines the treatment 
to be given the floor. A hard, close-grained wood will not 
require a filler, and it will take a higher polish than the soft 
woods. 

We will take any common wood floor, just as the carpenter 
has left it. It has been planed off, but the surface is not 
Fint step P^^f ©ctly smooth. The first step toward prepar- 
toward ing this floor is to rub the boards down to abso- 
P^^PJ™** lute smoothness. For this purpose get a package 
of steel wool, or steel shavings, of medium coarse- 
ness. (See " Steel Wool and Steel Shavings ".) Put on thick 
gloves. Take a wad of the wool in your hand, and rub one 
board at a time until smooth. In rubbing let the 
tSn^f the "movement be regular, but not too heavy. When 

flUer. the whole floor has been gone over, brush up the 

dust, and if the wood be open-grained, go over it 

with the filler, rubbing it in with a cloth. Close the room. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 317 

and let the floor rest for a day or more; then rub it down 
with clean, fine excelsior. A second coat of filler and a second 
rubbing down with excelsior will make the finish of the floor 
doubly fine; but the one coat will do, if time and strength fail. 
Now brush the floor, and with a damp cloth wipe off all 
the dust. It is now ready to be waxed or oiled. 

HOW TO PREPARE THE FILLER 

Prepared fillers may be bought at any paint-supply shop, 
or they may be prepared at home. The object in using 
them is to fill in the minutest interstices in the . 
wood, and so give a uniformly even surface. The ^/ jSiy 
foundation of wood-fillers is oil, turpentine, and imen. 
either whiting, corn or other starch, or flake- 
white. A drier is often used. If the wood is Th?«>mpo- 
dark, or the floor is to be colored, enough color- fillers, 
ing-matter is added to the mixture to match the 
color of the boards or the color one wishes them to have. 
Sometimes, when it is desired to keep the boards very light, 
oil is omitted; but the boards do not finish so well as when 
oil is employed. 

For Light Wood.— Use one pint of boiled linseed-oil, one 
and a half quarts of turpentine, one pint of fine 
whiting or corn-starch (or half whiting or corn- moSiig 
starch and half flake-white may be used). If the the dlffer- 
wood has color, add enough color to make the ^^^^ 
starch or whiting the same shade as the wood. 
For oak use a little raw umber, not quite a teaspoonful if 
the oak is white, more if it is dark. 

For Dark Wood.— Use one quart of boiled linseed-oil, one 
quart of turpentine, one pint of whiting or corn-starch. For 
mahogany add one tablespoonful of burnt sienna, one fourth 
of a teaspoonful of yellow ocher, half a teaspoonful of Bis- 
marck brown. 



318 HOME ECONOMICS 

For Walnut— One tablespoonful of burnt umber, half a 
teaspoonful of Venetian red, half a teaspoonful of yellow 
ocher. 

For Ath.— One level tablespoonful of raw sienna. 

These ingredients must be mixed very thoroughly, and a 

little be rubbed on a board to test the color; for the coloring- 

Tist tlM ™^**^r varies in strength, and it is impossible to 

Mion be- give the exact proportions. In buying the colors 

'oT flour' get them in fine powder. 

When the floors are stained with the powdered 
^mn ta* pigments combined with whiting and oil, the fill- 
omitted, ing process is omitted in the first treatment. 
Somewoodi Some of the close-grained woods in common 
which 4d use are bird's-eye maple, cherry, and sycamore; 
"^ muT ^^®se, of course, do not require a filler. Among 
the open-grained woods are oak, mahogany, the 
pines, spruces, etc., and these should be treated with a filler. 
If there are large cracks in the floor, fill them with putty 
before filling and staining. If there is a great deal of this 
filling of cracks to be done, the putty may be made by mix- 
ing linseed-oil and sifted whiting together. 

If the floor is dark, a little color could be worked in with 
the whiting. 

The working of the whiting and oil together to make a 
smooth paste is quite laborious. 

Bemoving If the floor is old, or has been previously painted 
previou or varnished, all stains on paint or varnish must 
paint or be removed before the filler is applied, 
▼arniih. Strong liquid ammonia or a strong solution of 
Use of am. potash or washing-soda will dissolve paint or var- 
moiiia,pot- ^ish. If, at the same time, it is desired that the 
■J&e!^' boards be white, quicklime is used in the wash, 
washing- All these substances are severely caustic and de- 
structive to hands and fabric; for this reason only 
worn-out garments should be put on, and the hands protected 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 819 

by old thick gloves, while one is doing this work. Care must 
be exercised, when applying these caustic preparations, not 
to get a drop on walls, base-boards, doors, etc. Strong 
household ammonia should be employed. It may be poured 
from the bottle on paint or varnish. All the windows should 
be opened. In about half an hour after the caustic has been 
applied, the paint or varnish will be soft, and it may be 
scraped off. Wet the spot to be removed with hot water, 
and scrape gently; continue this until the whole floor has 
been gone over. From time to time take up the g^_ 
substance scraped from the floor. A smooth hoe wringing 
may be used for the scraping. When all is done, "'^^Jf?^ 
wash the floor in several clean waters, and wipe 
dry. A self-wringing mop must be employed in washing the 
floor, as the caustic substance is injurious to the hands. 

The soda and potash are used in the same manner. If 
soda is used, it should be dissolved in boiling water in the 
proportion of six quarts of water to a pound of 
soda. To prepare potash, put a pound of the crys- potaS 
tals in a wooden pail, and pour on them six quarts 
of cold water; stir until dissolved, and then apply. The 
chemical action that takes place during the union of the 
water and the potash raises the temperature so that the mix- 
ture becomes hot. If lime and soda are to be 
mixed, put the soda in a pail with about a pound jJ^J^^ 
of quicklime, and on this pour the cold water. goda. 
The lime will slack immediately, and the soda will 
dissolve in the hot mixture. A combination of lime and 
potash is made in the same manner. 

To remove black or dark stains from the boards, pour a 
strong solution of oxalic acid on them, and they ^^ ^^_ 
will disappear after a short time. Should the alio add to 
stain be very deep or old, it may be necessary to ^^^f 
repeat the application of oxalic acid several times. 
The oxalic acid removes color and leaves the boards acid. 



320 HOME EOONOMIGS 

When boards are to be colored by an alkaline substance, 
Vtatralii- the cleaned spot must be neutralized by the ap- 
' !!fwHi!!f plication of liquid ammonia or soda before the 
fubftftiioe. staining-material is applied. 

STAINING WITH CHEMICALS 

There are several chemicals that may be used to darken 
wood, and this is the quickest and easiest method of stain- 
nh^T^mtmr^ ^^S the floor. These stains, however, do not have 
irtiM of life or color, but they are soft and restful, and 
•^™Jj^ when oiled, waxed, or varnished make a satisfac- 
tory floor. 
A stain of potassium permanganate is made as follows: 
Mix together in a bowl cold water and potassium perman- 
ganate in the proportion of half a pound of the 
'Jj^jjjj^ permanganate to four quarts of water. Let this 
ganate. stand several hours. Pour off the liquid into an- 
other bowL More water may be added to the 
permanganate remaining in the first bowl. Apply this liquid 
to the boards with a brush. Close the room, and let the 
floor dry thoroughly. A few hours will do, but it would be 
better to let it stand for a day or two. 

Rub the boards with a piece of clean carpet, and wax, oil, 
or varnish, as you may prefer. If a dark color is desired, 
double the quantity of potassium permanganate. When a very 
strong solution has been used the color is a purplish brown* 
Put two pounds of potash in a bowl, and pour on it four 
quarts of cold water. Stir until the potash is dissolved. 
Apply this solution to the boards with a brush, 
^^'"'1^ being careful not to get any of it on yourself or 
MiT surrounding objects. When this is dry, rub the 
boards, and finish in any way you wish. The pot- 
ash solution does not darken the wood as much as the potas- 
sium permanganate; its effect is to make the wood look old. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 321 

Apply dilute nitric acid to the boards, allowing eight 

ounces of the acid to each quart of water, and staining 

proceed as in applying potassium permanganate. ^*?^"^J* 

Apply household ammonia as in the preceding houehdld 

ofkQCkQ ttjntnimitL. 

KjckoVa* " •""" " 



THE PREPARATION AND APPLICATION OP STAINS 

At any good paint-shop you can get, for a dollar and a 
quarter, a gallon of staining-liquid which will give 
you an imitation of almost any wood you want, or uJjSS^ 
you can prepare your own stain. The method 
which I shall give for using the home-made stain applies 
also to the prepared article. 

After filling the cracks in the floor with putty, see that 
there are no paint-spots on the boards. Should there be 
any, pour turpentine on them, and after a while 
scrape off the paint. Wipe all dust from the floor, ^IT^l^ 
then apply the stain with either a brush or a piece the itain. 
of cloth. I think, however, it gives a handsomer 
floor if you first rub in a little of the stain with the cloth. 
Color only a board or two at a time, moving the brush with 
the grain of the wood. When the floor is finished, i^yeroom 
close the room for twenty-four hours; four or five dosed as 
days will be better, if you can spare the room. l«« *■ 
At the end of this time, pin a piece of carpet on 
a weighted brush and rub the floor, one or two boards at a 
time, until smooth and glossy. After the whole floor has 
been treated in this manner, take the piece of carpet off 
the weighted brush, and replace it with a clean piece. Now 
polish the floor. 

The floor may be varnished. In that case it How te 
will never require polishing. Get the prepared the floor 
varnish at a paint-shop, and put it onwith a brush, 
being careful to draw the brush smoothly over the boards 

21 



322 HOME ECONOMICS 

and with the grain. Be careful to put the varnish on evenly, 
and to have only a thin coating. If you aro going to var- 
nish the floor, and do not own a weighted brush, you can 
get down on your knees and do the rubbing with an old piece 
of carpet, or rub with an old hair-bruch covered with carpet. 

SUMMARY 

1. Fill cracks, if necessary. 

2. Remove stains and every particle of dirt. 
SmSSS ^' ^^^ boards smooth, and wipe up all dust, 
offtalning. 4. Rub a little stain in with a piece of cloth. 

5. Go over the floor again, applying the stain more 
generously, but not rubbing it in this time. 

6. Let the floor dry for hours— days, if possible. 

7. At the end of the drying-time, rub the floor with pieces 
of clean carpet or woolen cloths. This rubbing is to be done 
in the direction of the grain of the wood. 

8. Apply finish or polish. 

POINTS ON MIXING STAINS 

The foundation of nearly all kinds of wood-stain which 

amateurs use is a combination, chiefly, of boiled linseed-oil, 

Poonda- turpentine, the earth pigments, and some aniline 

Uon of colors. 

^^ini The pigments may be bought in two forms— in 

^^ a dry powder, or ground in oil; but better results 

^^^^^ may be obtained by using those ground in oil, al- 
though they are more expensive in this form than in the powder. 

Before mixing the stain there are several things to be de- 
cided upon— the shade of color desired, the condition of the 
Points to floor, and the extent of surface to be stained. 

h^fo^tS? ^^ *^® ^^^^ ^® ^^ ^^^ condition, any shade of 

ginxiingto stain may be applied; but if it is spotted and 

stftin. dark, the stain must be dark. One may have 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 323 

a dark floor that at the same time is bright in tone. 
This is obtained by a generous use of the yellow and red 
pigments when mixing the stain. For example, a combina- 
tion of burnt sienna, chrome-yellow, burnt umber, 
and Venetian red gives a dark floor, but one that . \^^ 
has much warmth and life. One can follow defi- whkh 
nite rules to get special shades and colors, or one ^^^^ 
can work up a shade that shall harmonize with and life, 
one's surroundings, and yet not be an imitation 
of any kind of wood. The following formulae may be changed 
or modified at the will of the workman. 

STAINS MADE FROM COLORS GROUND IN OIL 

Light stain.— One pint of boiled linseed-oil, one pint of 
turpentine, one tablespoonf ul each of burnt umber and burnt 
sienna, and two tablespoonfuls of chrome-yellow (colors 
ground in oil). This gives a light stain suitable for pines 
and other light woods. It may be made several shades 
darker by adding an extra tablespoonful each of burnt 
umber and burnt sienna. 

Walnut— One pint of oil, one pint of turpentine, two 
tablespoonfuls of burnt umber, three of burnt sienna, two of 
chrome-yellow, and half a tablespoonful of lampblack. 

Antique Oak.— One pint of oil, one pint of turpentine, two 
tablespoonfuls of burnt sienna, two tablespoonfuls of burnt 
umber, one tablespoonful of lampblack. Mix very thoroughly. 

STAINS MADE PROM COLORS IN POWDER 

Dark Mahogany. 

1 pint of boiled oil. 

1 J gills of turpentine. 

3 tablespoonfuls of burnt sienna. . 



324 HOME EOONOmCS 

3 tablespoonf uls of whiting. 

i tablespoonf ul of yellow ocher or chrome-yellow. 

i tablespoonf ul of Bismarck brown. 

i teaspoonfol of aniline black. 

light Kahogany.— Make the stain as above, omitting the 
blacky and using less burnt sienna. 

Cherry. 

1 pint of boiled oil. 
li gill of turpentine. 

3 tablespoonf uls of burnt sienna. 

2 tablespoonf uls of whiting. 

Oak. 

1 pint of boiled oil. 
li gills of turpentine. 

3 tablespoonf uls of raw umber. 
3 tablespoonf uls of whiting. 

Very light Oak.— Make the same as above, using less 
umber and more whiting. 

Antique Oak.— Add a little lampblack to the first mixture 
for oak. 
iJ^fo^ ^^ portions given in the formulae are for 
in formula, about one hundred square feet. 

TO GRADUATE THE STAINS 

It often happens that one does not care to imitate a par- 
ticular woody but would like to get a soft medium shade. 
This is easily accomplished by adding burnt umber, burnt 
sienna, and chrome-yellow in small quantities to the light 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 325 

hard-wood stain, and then testing on a piece of board until 
the required color is produced. I think this method gives 
the most satisfactory results. The colors used, ^ . 
ground in oil, cost from fifteen to twenty cents a graduate 
pound, and may be purchased in pound boxes. 5^^®' 
Wood-stains to imitate any wood may be pur- gtadn. 
chased in paste, about twenty-five cents a pound, 
and you may thin it yourself to the proper consist- on usedin 
ency, using equal parts of boiled oil and turpentine. Btains. 

THINGS IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER 

The longer a floor stands, after the stain is applied, before 
it is rubbed as a preparatory step for applying the polish, 
the handsomer it will be when polished. After j^ft stain 
the stain has been mixed, it should be tried on a before ap- 
piece of planed board. The softer woods, such as P^J*"^ ^ 
soft white pine, will take a deeper color than hard 
woods; if there are any sappy places in a board they will be 
darker than the smooth and hard parts. The strength in 
colors varies, and it may be that the proportions which are 
given will, with your colors, produce a lighter or darker eflFect. 

GLUING FURNITURE AND OTHER ARTICLES 

Certain conditions are necessary for success in gluing: 

1. The surfaces to be glued together must be free from 
old glue, and from any particles of wood, dust, conditioni 
etc., that might tend to keep them apart. neoenary 

2. The glue must not be too thick, nor spread *?. "^JJ?^ 
, i.1 . 1 1 ' " tax gluing. 

on too thickly. 

3. The two bodies must be fastened together very firmly 
until the glue has hardened. 

If all these conditions are fulfilled, there will be no trouble 
in gluing successfully. 



326 HOME EGONOmCS 

Scrape all old glue from the surfaces to be joined. Have 
at hand some means of fastening the bodies together. Strong 
cords or bands of cloth may be used, where one 
'^l^^^ has not a vise. 

Apply a thin coat of glue to both surfaces, and 
bring them together, being careful to get them in the right 
position. Fasten them firmly, and let them stand forty-eight 
hours or more. Wipe oflP any glue that may have oozed out 
from the joining. 

One can now purchase a good quality of liquid glue, which 
obviates the trouble and necessity of preparing a glue at 
home. If one prefers the latter, the manner of making it is 
comparatively simple, if one owns a glue-pot. 

Break the glue in small pieces, and cover it well with cold 
water. Let it soak several hours. Half fill the outer pot 
Prepariiur ^^^ water, and for every pint of water add one 
the glue if tablespoonful of salt; the water boils at a higher 
"^* •* temperature when salt is added. Place the inner 
pot in this, and set over the fire, stirring occa- 
sionally. When the glue has melted, thin to the proper con- 
sistency with strong vinegar. 

Glue loses strength by frequent heatings ; there- 

tlie amount ^^^^ P^^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^^7 ^^ much as will be required 
required, each time. 



HOW TO MEND PLASTER CASTS AND PICTURE-FRAMES 

Collect all the pieces, and place the cast where you can 
work with ease. It is well to have the cast, if small, on a 
board on which it may be lifted when putting it away. This 
will obviate the necessity of handling after the cast is 
mended. 

Put a little white of egg in a saucer; stir into this enough 
fine whiting to make a smooth, thin paste. Wet the broken 
parts with this, and press them together gently but firmly. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 327 

When all is done, wipe off any particles of the paste that 
show. II bits of the cast are lost, fill in with the paste, and 
spread a little very thin and newly prepared paste over this 
to give the desired finish. 

If theie is a great deal of work to be done, prepare the 
paste several times; it will dry and become rough if it stands 
any length of time. 

White-and-gilt picture-frames may be mended in the same 
manner. If the gilt part is lost, the repaired portion may be 
covered with gold-leaf, or, if the frame is a cheap one, it 
may be touched with the liquid preparation. 

TO CLEAN PLASTER CASTS 

To clean plaster casts, cover them with fine dry whiting 
and fullers' earth. Wrap them in a cloth, and let them 
stand a few days; then gently brush off the cleaning-mate- 
rial. This will not always give a spotless cast, but it is the 
safest method. If a wet substance is applied to them there 
is danger of removing the thin coating, often changing the 
whole expression of a beautiful cast. The better way is to 
have some sort of finish put on at the molder^s, or one can 
do this at home. 

TO WAX AND STAIN CASTS 

Put a piece of common yellow wax, about the size of a 
large English walnut, in a cup or bowl. Place the cup in a 
pan with a little hot water, and put over a moderate heat 
until the wax is melted; then take the pan from the fire, and 
beat one gill of turpentine into the melted wax. With a 
soft brush apply the mixture lightly to the cast. When 
dry, rub down with a clean cloth until a good polish is ob- 
tained. Apply the wax again, dry, and polish. Continue 
this until the desired shade is obtained. If shadows and a 



328 HOME EOONOMIGS 

dark background are desired, add to the preparation left the 
tiniest bit of raw umber, emerald-green, or blue. Brush the 
places to be darkened with this and rub as before. 

From time to time polish with an old kid glove. Great 
care must be taken not to get the cast too dark; this is apt 
to be a fault of an amateur. 

Or the cast may be oiled with boiled linseed-oil, and then 
polished as when waxed. If color is desired, it may be 
added to the oil. 

If a cream color only is desired, use white wax and refined 
turpentine. 

CARE OF SMALL MARBLES AND ALABASTER 

Make a strong suds with tepid water and soap. To each 
gallon add a tablespoonful of liquid soda. Wash the mar- 
bles in this, using a soft brush or cloth. Rinse quickly and 
thoroughly. When dry, polish with a soft cloth. 

TO CLEAN BRONZES 

Dust the bronze, then rub with a cloth slightly moistened 
with sweet-oil. Rub dry with a clean, soft cloth, then polish 
with an old kid glove or chamois-skin. 

TO POLISH THE BRASS TRIMMINGS OP FURNITURE 

Mix together one gill of parafSn-oil, half a gill of naphtha, 
and enough finely powdered tripoli to make a soft paste. 
Polish the brass with this, using felt, as in polishing woods. 
Next dust with dry tripoli, and polish with a soft linen cloth. 

In polishing the brass ornaments or trimmings in furni- 
ture, it is desirable to use an application that will be as 
beneficial to the wood as to the brass. This is the case with 
the above mixture. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 329 



SOME USES OF LIME-WATER 

Lime-water is made with quicklime and cold water. Put 
a lump of lime in an earthen bowl, and half fill it with cold 
water; stir with a stick or wooden spoon until the lime is 
dissolved. If it is very thick, add cold water to thin it. 
Let this rest for two hours, and then pour off the clear 
liquid, being careful not to take any of the sediment. Bot- 
tle, and keep for use. 

For bums, mix one gill of the lime-water with on bnxni. 
one gill of sweet-oil, bottle, and keep in the kitchen. 

If soda has been used on white boards to take out grease, 
the spot will become dark. Pour lime-water on To remore 
this, and let it rest for half an hour or more, *"»!»»• 

StUUB Oil 

then wipe. The board will have its original white 
white color. boards. 

It is an anti-acid tonic, and is used with a milk diet when 
the milk disagrees with the patient. A table- 
spoonful to half a pint of milk is about the usual J^J^ 
dose. 

To test the purity of the air of a room, half fill a glass 
with lime-water. If there is an excess of carbonic For testing 
acid in the atmosphere, a thin white scum forms the air of a 
on the surface of the water. Lime-water can be "^"^ 
used to soften hard water. (See " Water- Tem- ^^g^JS^' 
porary Hardness.'') Use one quart to ten of hard water. 

water. 

CHLORIDE OF LIME 

This is a good bleacher and disinfectant also. When it 
is to be used on fabrics for either purpose, dissolve one 
eighth of a pound in two gallons of cold watef, stir with a 
stick for a few minutes to break up the particles of lime, 
then let the mixture settle, and pour off the clear liquid for 



330 HOME EGONOBiIGS 

use. The sediment will be useful in drains or on the soil. 
This preparation should not be made in metal. 
UMd Ma Ii^ infectious diseases a pound of this material 
diiintoo- will be of great use, if put in saucers and distrib- 
^"^ uted about the bathroom, halls, and sick-room. 
It is very caustic, and should not be handled carelessly. 



LIQUID SODA 

Put one pound of sal-soda and one quart of water in a 
saucepan and on the fire. The soda will have dissolved by 
the time the water boils. Let this cool, and put it in bottles 
for future use; label the bottles, "Liquid Soda." This is a 
convenient form in which to have sal-soda. A tablespoon- 
ful of it added to the water in which clothes are boiled 
helps to whiten them, without the danger of injury that 
comes from using the crystals. When kitchen towels are 
boiled a little should be added to the water. Utensils in 
which food that leaves an odor has been cooked may be made 
sweet by boiling them for fifteen or twenty minutes in two 
quarts of water and a tablespoonful of the liquid soda. In 
fact, whenever one wishes to use washing-soda, the liquid 
article is ready. Soda is useful for cleaning tin and iron, 
for cleansing and sweetening the sink and all vessels that 
are not painted or varnished. 

It is the abuse of such agents that makes one hesitate to 
recommend them. It must be remembered that sal-soda is 
very caustic, and will destroy all fabrics unless much diluted. 
It will destroy paint and varnish, and also color. 

JAVELLE WATER 

This water can be purchased at the druggist's, but one 
can prepare it quickly at home, if liquid soda is kept on 
hand. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of chloride of lime in 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 331 

one quart of water; let it settle, and pour off the clear liquid; 
add to this one pint of liquid soda. For light stains this 
may be diluted with its own volume of cold water. 

Javelle water loses its strength in being exposed to light 
and air; it should be kept well corked and away from the 
light. It is better to make only a small quantity at a time. 
This preparation removes color, and must be used only on 
white fabrics. 

CARBOLIC ACID 

This is a most valuable substance in the household. The 
best form in which it may be purchased is in the white crys- 
tals, put in a bottle with a glass stopper. 

To make a solution of any strength, dissolve the crystals 
and add clear water. Keep another bottle for the solution. 

When you wish to dissolve the crystals, place several folds 
of paper or cloth on the bottom of a small saucepan, and put 
the bottle on this. Fill the pan with cold water, and place 
it over the fire. Have a gill of cold water in a second bot- 
tle, and pour into this about two tablespoonfuls of the liquid 
carbolic. This gives a solution of about twenty-five-per-cent. 
strength, which may be diluted at pleasure. This bottle 
should be plainly labeled, "Carbolic Acid— Poison." 

For sore throat, make a gargle with a half-pint of water 
and a teaspoonful of the solution. The same strength may 
be used to bathe stings of insects. 

Bedroom floors or carpets wiped with a cloth wrung out 
of four quarts of water, to which have been added two table- 
spoonfuls of the solution, may be kept in a sweet and healthy 
condition. Plants may be freed from insects by spraying 
them with a weak solution of carbolic acid— one table- 
spoonful of the solution to a gallon of water. 

In sickness, plumbing, clothing, toilet articles, etc., may 
be disinfected by a proper use of the solution. 



332 HOllE fiOONOUICS 

The odor of the freshly dissolved crystals is not so strong 
as that of the solution which one buys ordinarily. 

SOLUTION OP OXAUC ACID 

Put four ounces of the crystals in an eight-ounce bottle, 
and add half a pint of cold water. Shake well. This 
amount of water will not dissolve all the crystals, but for a 
strong solution there should always be some of the undis- 
solved crystals in the bottle. Label plainly, ''Oxalic Acid 
—Poison.** 

FURNITURE-CLEANER AND -POLISHER 

Put into a quart bottle, in the order named: 

1 gill of powdered rottenstone. 
1 gill of cold-drawn linseed-oil. 
1 gill of turpentine. 
1 gill of naphtha. 

1 gill of strong solution of oxalic acid. 
i gill of alcohol. 

1 gill of cold water to which has been gradually added a 
tablespoonful of sulphuric acid. 

Shake well the contents of the bottle, and it is ready for 
use. Keep well corked. Use this, as directed for rotten- 
stone and oil, for cleaning and polishing dull and dirty sur- 
faces. This preparation will remove white marks from oiled, 
varnished, or painted surfaces. 

ENCAUSTIC NO. 1 

To be used on furniture, floors, and marble. 
One pound wax; one pint turpentine. Melt the wax over 
gentle heat in a water-bath. When quite soft, remove from 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 333 

the fire and beat in the turpentine. If it is to be used on 
furniture, beat in one gill of alcohol. If for floors, and the 
finish is desired soft, add one gill of paraffin-oil and omit the 
alcohol. 

ENCAUSTIC NO. 2 

5 quarts boiling water. 
4 ounces laundry soap. 
2 ounces sal-soda. 
1 pound wax. 

Gut soap and wax fine, and put them in the water, and 
place on the range. Stir frequently until dissolved, then 
add soda, and take from the fire. Stir almost constantly 
until cool, then put in a vessel that can be covered closely. 
This polish may be used for floors, marbles, tiles, and bricks. 
It will remove ink from varnished surfaces. When heated 
and diluted with its own volume of turpentine, it may be 
used for cleaning and polishing varnished or waxed surfaces, 
tiles, marbles, etc. 

WAX FOR POLISHING FURNITURE 

Break up one pound of wax, and melt it to the consistency 
of thick cream, in a bowl which is placed in a saucepan of 
boiling water. Take the bowl from the fire, and gradually 
beat into the wax one pint of turpentine and half a pint of 
alcohol. Put this away in covered jars; warm slightly when 
it is to be used. Spread the thinnest layer possible on a 
soft woolen cloth, and apply to the surface to be polished. 

MATERIALS FOR CARE OF FURNITURE AND FLOORS 

In the regular care of the interior finish and the furniture 
the following materials will be found valuable. The pow- 



334 HOME ECONOMICS 

ders should be kept in small glass or wooden boxes, and 
labeled; they may then be kept in one shallow box, with the 
other materials. The cost of the outfit is slight, but the 
convenience of having these things at hand when required 
is great. 

1 ounce burnt umber. 1 ounce raw umber. 

1 ounce burnt sienna. 1 ounce raw sienna. 

1 ounce yellow ocher. 1 ounce Bismarck brown. 

1 ounce aniline black. Whiting. 

Turpentine. Alcohol. 

Shellac. Paraffin-oil. 

Boiled linseed-oil. Powdered rottenstone. 

Prepared wax (encaustic). Woolen cloths. 

Fine sandpaper. Steel wool, fine and coarse. 

Felt. Powdered tripoli. 

Powdered pumice-stone. 

FULLERS' EARTH 

This cleansing agent may be purchased at the druggist's. 
It is a soft, light-brown marl, and not expensive. It is a 
most useful article in the household. It does not injure the 
material on which it is used, is not poisonous, and it does 
not give off inflammable gases. The processes of cleaning 
fabrics with it are longer than when the volatile agents are 
used, but when an absorbent of grease is required it is most 
satisfactory. It can be bought in fine powder, as can also 
French chalk. 

TO CLEAN WITH FULLERS' EARTH 

Moisten the earth with cold water; lay the article on a 
clean table, and spread a thin layer of the paste over the 
soiled places. Hang the garment in a dry place for one or 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 335 

two days, then brush off the dry earth. If there are grease- 
spots on the garment, the earth that is applied to them 
should be made quite wet with turpentine. Brush and press 
the garment. 



TO MAKE SCOURING-BALLS 

Make a strong suds of white Castile soap; pour enough 
of this on half a pound of fullers' earth to make a fairly stiff 
paste. Work this into smooth balls about the size of a small 
egg, and let them dry. 

These balls are sometimes made with a mixture of fullers' 
earth, ox-gall, soap, and turpentine. They clean heavy and 
much-soiled goods more readily than do those made with the 
Castile soap-suds and the earth, but they cannot be used on 
delicate colors. It will be very little trouble to prepare both 
kinds. 

The scouring-balls may be used in cleaning spots on 
carpets. 

TO CLEAN WITH SCOURING-BALLS 

Shake all loose dust from the article to be cleaned. 
Spread it on a clean table or board. Sponge the soiled 
places lightly with a cloth dipped in tepid water. Go over 
the soiled fabric with the scouring-ball, rubbing gently and 
thoroughly every part of it. When all the soiled surface 
has been treated, hang the garment in a dry place for a day 
or two, then brush the parts treated; they will be found 
perfectly clean. As this treatment removes all the surface 
dirt, the cleansed places will be of a little lighter shade than 
those which have not been treated. It may be necessary to 
press the garment if it was very dirty and required a thor- 
ough application of the scouring-ball. 



336 ^ HOME EOONOMIGS 



HOW TO PUT NEW LININGS IN BOOTS AND SHOES 

The kid or other linings in boots and shoes often, become 
soiled or broken before the boots axe half worn, and should 
be replaced by fresh ones. If the new linings are not prop- 
erly fitted and pasted, they become a source of great dis- 
comfort. First cut an exact pattern of the sole of the boot. 
To do this, place the boot on a sheet of paper, and draw the 
outlines of the sole; then cut the pattern, which keep for 
future use. If kid is used, purchase, at a leather-store, 
one kid skin finished in white. Spread the skin on a board, 
finished side up, and lay the pattern on it, and with a pencil 
draw the outline. When you have drawn half the number 
of linings required, turn the pattern over and draw the other 
half; this will give you rights and lefts. Be careful, in out- 
lining the soles, to place the pattern so as to give as little 
waste material as possible. Cut the leather with a sharp- 
pointed knife, following the pencil lines. One skin will 
make enough linings to last one person for years. 

Make a paste with half a teaspoonf ul of flour mixed smooth 
with a tablespoonful of cold water. Pour on this enough 
boiling water to make a thin paste (about three tablespoon- 
fuls). Tear the old linings out of the boot, then wipe thor- 
oughly to be sure there are no particles of dust or lint 
adhering to the boot. Cover the wrong side of the lining 
with a thin layer of paste. Nearly double the lining, paste 
side in, and slip into the boot, unfolding it as it passes in 
place. See that it fits smoothly everywhere. Pass the hand 
gently over it, pressing lightly until the surface is perfectly 
smooth. Then go all over the surface with a piece of soft 
cloth, using a good deal of pressure. The boots should stand 
at least twelve hours to dry. If these directions are followed 
to the letter, the lining will fit and adhere perfectly. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 337 



TO CLEAN COMBS AND BRUSHES 

Put enough water in a wash-bowl to reach the backs of 
the brushes, but not to flow over them. To each quart of 
water add one tablespoonful of borax. Free the brushes 
from dust, and place them, bristles down, in the water. Let 
them soak about ten minutes, then sop them up and down 
in the water until the bristles look clean. Rinse in plenty 
of clean cold water, and dry in a current of air. 

Ammonia may be substituted for the borax; but as it 
softens the finish on the wooden backs of the brushes, it 
must be used with care. 

Silver brushes may be inunersed in the ammonia or borax 
water. 

Heat and moisture dissolve the glue used to fasten the 
bristles to the back; therefore brushes of any kind should 
not be soaked for too long a time, and never in hot water. 
Never dry them in great heat. 

Wash the combs in borax or ammonia water, rinse in cold 
water, and wipe dry. Combs should not be soaked or left wet. 

TO CLEAN COAT COLLARS 

Wet the soiled place with turpentine, and let it rest for 
ten or more minutes, then wet again. Scrape off the loos- 
ened dirt. Wet once more with the turpentine, and again 
scrape off the loose dirt. Continue this until all the dirt 
has been removed. In all the work let the scraping be very 
gentle, that the fabric may not be injured. Then sponge 
with a clean cloth and turpentine, and wipe until dry. The 
final sponging may be with alcohol or chloroform. These 
two substances evaporate quickly and leave a fresher-looking 
surface than when the cleaning is finished with turpentine. 



338 HOME ECONOMICS 



AIDS IN DARNING LARGE HOLES 

Baste a piece of thin net over the hole, and darn in the 
usual manner. The mesh of the net makes a groundwork 
for the threads. Old veils and bits of worn lace are well 
adapted for this work. 

HOW TO REVIVE AND STRAIGHTEN WHALEBONE 

Soak the bent bone in warm water until it is pliable; then 
press it with a warm iron. 

TO PREVENT STAINS SHOWING THROUGH WHITE- 
WASH OR PAPER 

Before beginning to paper or whitewash, examine walls 
and ceiling, and if there are any dark spots, cover them with 
a coat of shellac. . 



TO PREVENT THE CORNERS OF RUGS PROM CURLING 

Sew some stiff material like buckram or haircloth on the 
under side of the comers. 



HOW TO HEAT INFLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES 

An inflammable substance like alcohol, rum, turpentine, 
etc., should always be heated in a water-bath and watched 
carefully. Alcohol, rum, or whisky, when required for fric- 
tion, should be put in a bottle. Place the bottle in a sauce- 
pan of cold water, and set on the range. By the time the 
water boils the liquid in the bottle will be hot. Keep the 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 339 

bottle in the hot water while the liquid is being used. In 
heating turpentine, place the vessel which contains it in a 
pan of hot water. Watch this while on the fire, as it gives 
off inflammable gases. It is not often necessary to heat 
turpentine to a high temperature. 

PRECAUTIONS TO BE TAKEN IN CLEANING 

The pail in which the water for cleaning is put must 
always have a paper placed under it, whether it rest on floor, 
carpet, or other support. 

Oil-bottles or other receptacles must be placed on several 
folds of paper or cloth, or on a plate or tray. Bottles in 
which there are acids, alcohol, or other cleaning substances, 
when in use, must always have paper placed under them. 

Soaps must always rest in a dish of some kind. 

Cleaning-cloths must not be dropped carelessly anywhere; 
they should, if wet, be placed on paper. 

When using any caustic substance, like lye, washing-soda, 
ammonia, the greatest care must be exercised that not a 
drop is spilled on paint or varnish; and if such an accident 
should occur, immediately use plenty of water on the spot, 
or pour on oil. 

If alcohol is spilled on varnish, wash with water immedi- 
ately, or pour on oil. Be careful not to spill an acid on 
marble; but should this happen, pour on water, and wash off 
quickly. 

In dusting or moving pictures, care should be used not to 
rub or handle roughly gilt frames. Oil-paintings must be 
dusted in the lightest and most careful manner, and should 
always be carefully covered before sweeping. 

Be careful that all cloths and brushes are put away clean 
and dry, so that when needed they shall be in readiness. 

Do not use strong acids or alkalis on the metals connected 
with plumbing. 



340 HOME EGONOMIGS 



FRAMES FOR DRESS-WAISTS AND MEN'S CLOTHING 

Cut the hoops of a small barrel (the size known as half- 
barrels) in two parts. Wind folds of cambric or cotton on 
these, and fasten smoothly and firmly at the ends. 

Tie a strong cord in the middle of each frame. Make a 
generous loop by which the frame can be hung on the hooks. 

The advantages of these frames are that, while they sup- 
port the garment perfectly, they are so free from sharp 
lines that they do not leave their impress upon it. Their 
cheapness and lightness make it possible to have as many as 
one may desire, and a few can be packed with ease for use 
when one is traveling. 



CONVENIENT CLOTHES-RACK 

When one is cramped for room, as is so often the case in 
a flat or boarding-house, a rack made to fit a curtained space, 
as an unused door, will be found invaluable. Have a planed 
board about five inches wide and the length of the space it 




Fig. 52. 

is to fill. Screw the desired number of hooks into this; on 
the top fasten two large screw-eyes (Pig. 52). Fasten two 
strong hooks in the wall or door, and hang the board, by the 
screw-eyes, on these. 

The advantage of this rack is that it can be hung where 
one could not put in nails or hooks. It may be made so long 
that it will utilize all the space. The expense is almost 
nothing; the hooks and a piece of a dry-goods box will answer. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 341 

To protect the garments from dust, tack an old sheet over 
the wall before the rack is put up. 

STEEL WOOL AND STEEL SHAVINGS 

In European countries, where polished floors are the rule, 
steel shavings are used to clean oflf the floors when they 
become very much stained. In this country steel shavings 
or wool is used in rubbing down woodwork in interior finishes, 
but not much on floors. However, when properly used, this 
substance is a great aid in removing unsightly stains, or in 
making rough spots smooth. The American article is known 
as steel wool, and the imported article as steel shavings. 
The very coarse should be used on coarse floors, and the finer 
grade on fine floors. It may generally be found at painters' 
supply-shops. 

INSECTS AND VERMIN 

The housekeeper must always be on guard against the 
many enemies of foods, fabrics, materials, and personal com- 
fort, which find entrance into the house in the form of insects 
and larger vermin. No place is exempt from these pests, 
but if one lives in a detached house it is a comparatively 
easy matter to keep it free from them. The dwellers in 
apartment and block houses are liable to invasion from the 
neighboring apartments. Water- and steam-pipes add to 
the ease with which water-bugs, cockroaches, etc., find their 
way through all parts of a building. Unscreened doors and 
windows admit files, mosquitos, moths, etc. Rats and mice 
find their way into cellars and walls in the most unaccount- 
able manner. 

Absolute cleanliness and eternal vigilance are the price 
of freedom from these troublesome visitors. There are 
methods of exterminating all these plagues; but, when pos- 



342 HOME ECONOMICS 

sible, the preventives should be employed. If, however, the 
housekeeper finds that any kind of vermin has found lodg- 
ment in her premises, she should use immediate and vigorous 
measures to exterminate them, using the cleanest, surest, 
and safest remedies that she is acquainted with. There are 
some manufactured articles on the market that will clean 
a house thoroughly of all insects, if used faithfully. The 
housekeeper may also employ successfully many substances 
with which she is familiar. 

Naphtha, properly used, is one of the cleanest, easiest, 
and most effective remedies; but it must be used with intel- 
ligence and caroc None but responsible, careful people 
should ever be allowed to employ this agent. The danger 
is from an inflammable gas which it gives off. If the work 
is done in a room where the windows are wide open, and 
there is neither light nor fire, there is not the slightest 
danger. 

In attempting to exterminate any sort of insects by the 
use of naphtha, it must be remembered that the infested 
places must be saturated with the naphtha, and also that 
this only kills the living animal, not the eggs. After the 
first application of naphtha, wait three or four days, and 
saturate the places a second time; this will kill any life that 
may have developed from the eggs. When naphtha has 
been used in this manner, the windows of the room should 
be left open for several hours. 

Watei>bng8.--Pour a weak solution of turpentine into the 
pipes once a week for a few weeks, and the bugs will cease 
to make their visits. Use half a pint of turpentine to three 
pints of water. The turpentine will drive the bugs from 
their hiding-place, and they should be killed when they are 
seen. The remedies that will exterminate cockroaches will, 
as a rule, exterminate water-bugs also. The preparations 
that one buys for cockroaches are generally effective for 
water-bugs and ants. 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 343 

Cookroaches.— One of the methods of drawing cockroaches 
into the house is to leave kitchen garbage standing about 
for hours. The greatest care should be exercised to de- 
stroy or remove all garbage as soon as the dishes are washed* 
Keep all food covered; keep all corners and crevices clean 
and dry. There are several methods of exterminating the 
roaches. 

1. Blow insect-powder into all the cracks from which the 
pests come. In a few hours brush up the dead insects and 
powder, and bum them. Fill all cracks and holes with a 
second dose of powder. After a few hours brush up and burn 
powder and roaches. Then spread powdered borax about the 
cracks and holes. 

2. Make a strong solution of carbolic acid,— two table- 
spoonfuls of the acid to a pint of water,— and force this 
solution into all the cracks and openings. The odor of the 
carbolic lasts for several days; one may, however, be com- 
forted with the knowledge that nothing can be cleaner or 
more effective. It may require several applications of the 
solution. 

3. Dissolve one pound of alum in three pints of hot water, 
and force the hot solution into the cracks and openings. 
Afterward spread borax about the places where the roaches 
have been in the habit of appearing. 

Ants.— To exterminate ants, use the hot solution of alum 
or the carbolic solution as for cockroaches. Or pour oil of 
pennyroyal on a large piece of cotton-batting; tear this into 
small bits, and spread them about the places where the ants 
appear. The odor is very strong and lasting. With the 
removal of the cotton it soon disappears. 

When the fresh pennyroyal can be procured, spread the 
leaves about the infested places. 

Bedbugs.—-!. The quickest, cleanest, and surest method 
of exterminating this pest is by the use of naphtha. Open 
all the windows in the room. Shake and examine all the 



344 HOME EGONOMIGS 

bedding. Hang out sheets, blankets, etc. Saturate the 
mattresses and pillows with naphtha, and put them out of 
doors, if possible. Brush the walls of the room, not leaving 
a particle of dust in crack, groove, or comer. Sweep the 
floor or carpet, if there is one. Take the bedstead apart, 
and lay the parts on the floor, the grooved sides up. Satu- 
rate all the joints and grooves with naphtha. Wet the car- 
pet with the naphtha. If there are any cracks or breaks in 
walls or floor, fill them with naphtha. Then leave the room, 
locking the door, that no one may enter until all the gas has 
passed off. A few hours will answer, but where naphtha is 
used in large quantities, it is safer to keep the windows 
open and the door shut the greater part of the day. 

This application of naphtha will kill all the living insects 
that it comes in contact with, but not the eggs. In three 
or four days repeat the operation, and there will be no more 
trouble, unless the insects are in the wall, where the naphtha 
cannot reach them. 

Caidion : Remember that there is great danger if fire or 
light is allowed in the room while the work is being done, 
or for hours after, while the inflammable gas is in the room. 
On the other hand, there is not a particle of danger if these 
directions are carefully followed. The advantage of the 
naphtha over all other remedies is that it is not injurious 
to any finish, fabric, or color. It leaves everything cleaner 
than at the beginning of the process. The work is quickly 
and easily done, and the odor passes off quickly. 

2. Clean the room as for the naphtha process. If there is 
a carpet, remove the tacks, then blow insect-powder all over 
it. Fold it from both sides toward the middle, and powder 
the parts that are folded over. Fold both ends toward the 
middle, and powder again. Roll the carpet up, powdering 
the under part as it comes to the top. By following these 
directions, every part of the carpet will be covered with the 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 346 

powder. Let the carpet lie rolled up in this manner for a 
day; then have it beaten and brushed. 

Spray the mattress and pillows with the powder. Take 
the bedstead apart as for the naphtha process; wash it with 
a strong solution of carbolic acid, pouring the solution into 
the grooves and joints. Wash the base-boards and floor with 
the carbolic solution, spraying cracks and joints with it. 
Let the windows stand open all day. The odor of the car- 
bolic will last for some time, but it is clean. 

If there is a strong objection to the odor of carbolic, the 
insect-powder may be used instead. It may require two 
applications of either powder or carbolic. Old powder is not 
effective. 

Examine the picture-moldings; they are generally made 
of the soft white woods in which these insects thrive. 

Moths and Buffido-bugs.— The naphtha treatment as for 
bedbugs will exterminate moths and buffalo-bugs. It must 
be remembered that all the eggs must be removed by brush- 
ing and shaking before the naphtha is applied; or, if not, 
treat the articles to a second dose of naphtha after three 
or four days. 

Frequent thorough brushings, beatings, and airings will 
keep furnishings and garments free from these destructive 
insects. 

If closets are washed in the spring and fall with a weak 
solution of carbolic acid, one may be reasonably sure that 
they will be free from insects. 

Kill every moth-miller found flying in the house. Should 
you find the minutest colony of moths or buffalo-bugs in a 
piece of furniture or fabric, do not cast them to the four 
winds to prey upon your neighbors. Take the article into 
the laundry or a vacant room, and saturate it with naphtha; 
then put it out of doors, if you please; the moths will be 
beyond doing any further harm. 



346 HOME ECONOMICS 

Plief and Mosquitos.— Of course, if good screens are on 
doors and windows there will be little trouble with either 
flies or mosquitos. 

Open the windows. Put some insect-powder on an old 
plate; set fire to it, and place on an inverted tin pan in the 
middle of the room. Close the door. The smoke will drive 
the flies and mosquitos out of the room. 

Eats and Mice. --If these vermin get into the house, the 
safest method of removing them is by the trap. Have all 
the holes filled in this manner: sprinkle chloride of lime in the 
hole, then fill in with broken glass, and finally seal with mor- 
tar or plaster of Paris. Bait the traps with meat; it is much 
more effective than cheese. If there must be delay in filling 
the holes, give them a generous dose of the chloride of lime. 

THERMOMETERS IN THE KITCHEN 

If it were possible to use the thermometer freely in all 
culinary operations, the science of cookery would be very 
much simplified; but there are many obstacles in the way. 
The ordinary thermometer is very fragile, and must be used 
with the greatest care, and in the various dishes which are 
being prepared at the same time it would be impossible to 
use the instrument freely. The glass is liable to break when 
exposed to extremes of temperature. Many attempts have 
been made to produce a satisfactory oven-thermometer, but, 
so far as I know, the only successful one is based on the 
principle of the expansion and contraction of metals. This 
thermometer has an indicator like the face and hands of a 
clock, and is fitted into an opening in the oven door. While 
this thermometer does not indicate the temperature to a 
nicety, like mercury, it is accurate enough for all practical 
purposes. The trouble with a mercury thermometer is that 
when exposed continuously to a high temperature the mer- 
cury does not fall back easily, and sometimes refuses to do 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 347 

SO at any temperature. A thermometer that is used in 
cooking should be incased in copper. They may be pur- 
chased or ordered at any chemical supply-store. 

In using a thermometer great care is necessary to protect 
the bulb from cracking or breaking. Always heat and cool it 
gradually. A thermometer, when plunged into a hot liquid, 
or when taken from a hot bath and exposed to cold air, is 
liable to break. The bulb must never rest on the bottom of 
a stew-pan. Be careful not to hit or jar it. Immediately 
after using, it should be wiped dry and carefully put away. 

THE MELTING-POINT OF SOME METALS AND ALLOYS 

Many household utensils are often exposed to too high a 
temperature, because of ignorance of the melting-point of 
the metal or alloy from which they are made. With the 
exception of iron and steel, but few pure metals are used in 
the manufacture of household articles, the greater number 
of metal articles being made with alloys. 

Many alloys melt at a much lower temperature than any 

one of the metals which enter into their combination. The 

following tables of the melting-point of a few of the metals 

and alloys will illustrate this fact. 

F. 

Copper 2000° 

Zinc 914° ''^^ 

Antimony 810° which aif- 

Lead 612° ^^J^ 

Bismuth 476° mdt. 

Tin 442° 

1 part tin, 25 parts lead 558° Teupeni- 

4 parts tin, 1 part lead 365° ^g^Jl,. 

2 parts tin, 2 parts lead, 1 part bismuth . 292° ferent al- 

5 parts tin, 3 parts lead, 3 parts bismuth . 202° ^y* ^^^^ 



348 HOME EOONOMIGS 

Britannia is made from tin, copper, and antimony in vary- 
ing proportions, depending upon the quality of the product. 
If we were to estimate the melting-point of this alloy by 
that of the metals that enter into its composition, we should 
place it high; but we all know by experience that the melt- 
ing-point is very low, so we are careful not to expose utensils 
made from this metal to a temperature much above the 
boiling-point of water (212°). 

In using utensils made from alloys of all kinds, the liability 
to melt at a low temperature must always be kept in mind, 
that the article may not be softened and gotten out of shape, 
or, worse still, injured beyond repair. 



THE MELTING-POINT OP SOME PATS AND SUGAR 

F. 

Olive-oil 75-76** 

Cotton-seed oil 95.5** 

Butter 91-94.8° 

Kidney suet of most animals . . . 101.6-130.8° 

Lard 108.5-112.3° 

Sugar . 320-400° 

When a bottle of olive-oil standing in a temperature of 
75° or 76° looks a little thick or is flecked with undissolved 
particles, it is an indication that it has been adulterated with 
an oil that melts at a higher temperature. 

When butter holds its shape at a temperature above 95°, 
it is an indication that it has been adulterated with some 
fat, like suet, that melts at a temperature above 95°. 

When dry sugar is exposed to a temperature of 320° it 
begins to melt; when the temperature reaches 400° the sugar 
passes to the caramel stage, and from that to the dark, bitter 
substance known as burnt sugar. 



MfiSGELLANEOUS MATTER 349 



BACTERIOLOGY 

This wonderful science has developed so rapidly that it is 
almost impossible to realize that comparatively little was 
known about it twenty years ago. Through this science 
have been found means of preventing and arresting disease 
and decay in animal and vegetable life, and a knowledge of 
it is very important to the housekeeper, that she may protect 
her family and belongings against the ravages of the de- 
structive bacteria. So many wild and absurd statements 
have been made by those who have only a superficial know- 
ledge of the subject that the result has been to frighten 
some people and disgust others. There is no cause for 
either, and certainly it is criminal not to inform one's self 
on a subject that has such a power over our lives. 

The amount of knowledge on the subject necessary for 
the housekeeper is not difiicult to acquire. There are several 
books written upon it that come within the comprehension 
of the most unscientific mind. "The Story of Bacteria,'' 
by T. Mitchell Prudden, and " The Story of Germ Life," by 
Professor H. W. Conn, are small books written in such a 
simple, clear style that they are within the understanding 
of a child, and no housekeeper should fail to include them 
in her library. The information they contain is presented 
in such an attractive form that it should mean, in the future, 
better conditions for the health and happiness of the home. 
"The Principles of Bacteriology," by A. C. Abbott, is also 
a useful book for those desiring to study more of the subject. 
A book which is intended for the farm and dairy, "The 
Principles of Modem Dairy Practice," by Gosta Grotenfelt, 
translated by F. W. Woll, is full of information for the 
housekeeper. It is very clearly and simply written, and is 
a most interesting book. 

A few things which the housekeeper should keep in mind, 



350 HOME ECONOMICS 

in regard to bacteria, is that they are of the lowest form of 
vegetable life, and so small that they can only be seen under 
a strong microscope (hence the name microbes); that they 
multiply rapidly under proper conditions, dirt, warmth, and 
moisture being the most favorable, and that only a very high 
or very low temperature, or certain disinfectants, can kill 
them. 

From the foregoing will be seen the necessity for thorough 
cleanliness, ventilation, light, and sunshine. 

HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS, AND THE DIVISION OP THE INCOME 

There is no greater aid to economy than a regular system 
of keeping accounts, and a proper division of the income. 
The housekeeper who is careless in these matters does a 
great injustice to herself and her family. When a woman 
knows how much money she may have to spend each month, 
if she is an honest woman she will not exceed that sum, 
except under very unusual circumstances. If she keeps her 
household accounts regularly she will see where every cent 
goes, and if she has made a mistake one month she will not 
repeat it the next. 

Cash-accounts are the best. There is nothing more de- 
ceptive or extravagant than running bills at the various 
shops. It generally means an expenditure of at least one 
third more than when you pay cash. This does not mean 
that you are charged for more than you purchased, but that 
you ordered more carelessly than if you made cash payments. 

The system of keeping accounts should be so simple and 
clear that it need not be a burden. There are on the market 
several kinds of housekeeping-expense books, which are very 
good. 

The question of the division of the income is one that 
perplexes a great number of people, and yet I do not see 
how it is possible to make a general rule that shall cover 



MISCELLANEOUS MATTER 351 

any great percentage of the families of this country. Lo- 
cality, education, and manner of living all must be taken 
into consideration, rents in large cities being at least three 
times as much as the same kinds of houses would cost in the 
country. Much of the food and fuel in the country cost 
much less than in the city. If one lives some distance from 
the business center in the city, car-fares are quite an item. 
Shelter, food, fuel, and clothing are four items of expense 
common to all classes, and they are imperative. The number 
of other expenses increase or diminish with the mode of life. 
No matter how simple or elaborate the style of living, each 
housekeeper should make up her mind that the expenses 
shall not exceed the income. To do this there must be a 
well-defined plan of expenditure. 

Here is a simple and good system. Have a set of envelops 
marked thus: 



Rent. 


Groceries. 


Fuel. 


Milk. 


Light. 


Butter. 


Service. 


Eggs. 


Butcher. 


Replenishing. 



Vegetables and Fruit. Incidentals. 

Have a slip of paper to put in each envelop, on which may 
be jotted down any item you may wish. Then decide how 
much can go into each envelop for the weekly or monthly 
expenses, as the case may be. Put that amount of money 
in each envelop, and on no consideration spend more than 
that sum. If at the end of the month you are so fortunate 
as not to have spent all you put aside for expenses, put this 
surplus with your savings. This system will insure your 
keeping within your means, at least, and is, of course, in- 
tended for persons with limited incomes. 

Each month there should be something saved for sickness 



362 HOME ECONOMICS 

or reverses, which are sure to come sooner or later. Even 
a dollar a month will count for a good deal at the end of a 
few years. If there must be great economy, let it be in 
simplicity of living and dress. Do not reduce' the food to 
the smallest amount possible for existence. Let it be simple, 
but well cooked, and enough of it. It is impossible to have 
physical, mental, or moral energy on improper or insufficient 
food. 

Economies in the home should mean, above all things, 
that the most precious thing in it—the mother— shall not 
be misused or wasted. She should not be burdened with 
the problem of living in a style beyond her means, with the 
result of narrowing her life and dwarfing her nature. How 
much better to live simply and honestly, growing broader, 
sweeter, and happier with each year of such home life! 
And the children who grow in such an honest atmosphere 
must, as a consequence, be better men and women than if 
their young lives had been poisoned with the struggle to 
live in a style which the family income does not warrant. 



CHAPTER XVII 

SUPPLEMENTARY 
TO CLEAN TARNISHED NICKEL ON STOVES 

Make a paste of powdered pumice-stone and sweet or par- 
affine oil. Rub the nickel with this. Polish with a soft 
cloth. Any nickel finish may be polished in the same 
manner. 

TO KEEP THE RANGE CLEAN AND BLACK 

Once or twice a week wash the range with soap and 
water and rub dry. Put on a very thin coat of blacking 
and when nearly dry polish with a stiff, dry brush. If the 
top of the range becomes red and the blacking refuses to 
stick to it, when cold rub a light coating of lard over it and 
let stand for several hours, then black and polish in the 
usual manner. 

TO CLEAN WROUGHT IRON 

Make a woolen cloth damp with sweet oil. Rub the 
wrought iron with this, then polish with a dry, woolen cloth. 

BRASS CLEANER 

Mix together four ounces of rotten-stone, three ounces of 
28 353 



354 HOME ECONOMICS 

paraffine or sweet oil, two tablespoonfuls of a solution of 
oxalic acid, and one pint of water. Beat until smooth, 
then bottle. 

BEAN WATER FOR CLEANING BRASS 

Water in which dried beans have been {soiled will clean 
brass articles quickly and easily. Put the articles to be 
cleaned in a kettle and cover with strained, hot bean water. 
Boil ten minutes, then rinse quickly in clear, hot water. 
Rub diy with a soft cloth. The articles must be entirely 
covered with the bean water. This method is particularly 
good for small articles like candle sticks, lamp burners, etc. 

STAINS FROM MARBLE, ENAMEL AND PORCELAIN 

Brown stains that come on bath tubs, basins, etc., may be 
removed with powdered pumice-stone. Wet a cloth with 
soap suds. Put a little powdered pumice-stone on the cloth 
and rub the stained spot and the stain will disappear in an 
instant. 

HARD OIL FROM WINDOW GLASS 

This stain resists almost every agent except powdered 
pumice-stone, which removes it readily. 

TO REMOVE PAINT OR VARNISH FROM WINDOW GLASS 

Wet the paint spots with turpentine, liquid ammonia, or 
liquid soda. Repeat the wetting until the paint or varnish 
begins to soften. Now scrape gently with a piece of soft 
wood or a copper cent, then rub with a piece of paper wet 
with the cleaning fluid. Be careful not to get the soda or 
ammonia on the paint or varnish of the window frame. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 355 

GLUE ON FABRICS OR FURNITURE 

Vinegar is a solvent for all fish glue. When gluing a 
piece of wood work, if any particles of glue get on places 
where it is not desired, wet a bit of cloth with vinegar and 
rub it off. If glue gets on clothing or other fabrics sponge 
with a cloth wet with vinegar. To soften old glue on wood- 
work or fabrics wet with vinegar and when softened wipe 
off with cloths wet with vinegar. 

HOW TO TREAT A SOAPSTONE GRIDDLE 

A soapstone griddle can be used without greasing. Scour 
it thoroughly with pumice-stone and soap and water and 
you will have no trouble. 

PASTE FOR CLEANING SILVER 

Dissolve one ounce of powdered borax in half a pint of 
boiling water; when the liquid is cold pour it on four 
ounces of precipitated chalk and beat until smooth. Add 
one gill of alcohol, and bottle. Shake well before using. 

RUST ON GAS STOVES 

Rust on the oven and broiler of a gas stove is caused by 
the steam from the food, which condenses on the metal as 
it cools. About once in ten days or two weeks rub the en- 
tire surface of the baking and broiling ovens with a cloth 
wet with kerosene. Do this at night, and by morning nearly 
all the odor will have disappeared. The heat will drive off 
what little remains. 

TO CLEAN STAINED ENAMELED UTENSILS 

You can keep your enameled ware almost as fresh and 
bright as new by the use of soda. If a saucepan becomes 



356 HOME EC50N0MICS 

discolored or burned do not scrape with a knife or any 
hard substance which would scratch or break the enamel. 
Fill the saucepan with water and place on the range. Add 
a tablespoonf ul of sal-soda for every quart of water. Let 
the saucepan remain on the back of the range nearly a day. 
The hot soda-water can be poured into the sink or it may 
be bottled for use again. 

RUST ON NICKEL PLATE 

Cover the rust spots with mutton fat and let it remain a 
few days, then rub with powdered rotten-stone or tripoli and 
oil. Give the final polish with whiting and oil. 

TO REMOVE FLY SPECKS FROM GILT FRAMES, ETC. 

Dissolve one ounce of pure borax in a pint of boiling 
water. When cold sponge the soiled places with the liquid. 
Use only enough moisture to wet the spots. Repeat this 
several times, and then rub gently with a soft cloth made 
damp with the solution of borax. 

TO CLEAN AN OIL PAINTING 

Fold a soft cloth and wring out of tepid water. Spread 
the wet cloth over the picture and let it rest for about half 
an hour. Remove the wet cloth and wipe the picture with 
a soft, damp cloth, then with a soft, dry cloth. This will 
generally remove all fly specks and dust. 

TO CLEAN GLASS BOTTLES 

By any one of the following methods: Crush some egg- 
shells and put them into the bottles with hot suds; shake 
vigorously, turn out the suds and rinse with cold water. 
Another way consists of dissolving a tablespoonf ul of wash- 



SUPPLEMENTARY 367 

ing soda in a pint of water, and, when the mixture has par- 
tially cooled, pouring it into the bottles; then tearing some 
soft paper into bits and putting them into the bottles to 
stand an hour or more, and finally shaking vigorously, emp- 
tying and rinsing in cold water. A third method is to cut 
up raw potatoes, put them into the bottles with cold water 
and let rest for a few days; then shake well, empty and 
rinse. To clean the bottles quickly put about a gill of 
water and two tablespoonfuls of household ammonia into 
them, and, after shaking well and empt3ring, rinse with 
clean water. Here is still another way: Put a gill of cold 
water into a bottle, then pour in, very slowly, about two 
tablespoonfuls of sulphuric acid. This will make the water 
hot; let this stand a while, then shake well, empty, and 
rinse. The bottles may be cleaned more quickly by this 
process than by the other methods. The acid will also 
remove stains when soap and water will not. Carafes, 

either of cut or pressed glass, may be cleaned in the same way. 

« 

TO GLEAN HAIR BRUSHES 

Hair brushes may be cleaned with borax, ammonia or 
soda; borax is possibly the best. Dissolve the borax in 
boiling water and add cold water to the liquid. Allow one 
tablespoonful of borax to one quart of water. Have the 
brushes free from dust and put them in a washbowl with 
enough of the borax water to cover the bristles. Soak ten 
minutes, then sop well in the water, being careful not to 
wet the tops of the brushes. Rinse in plenty of cold water 
and dry in a current of air. Do not have the water hot and 
do not dry in the heat. 

TO REMOVE RUST PROM MATTING 

Rust Stains on matting may be removed in this manner: 
Have ready some muriatic acid, a hot iron, dry cloths, an 



368 HOME ECONOMICS 

old nail-brush, a sponge, a bowlful of boiling water and two 
pailf uls of clean cold water. Cover the spot with paper and 
place the hot iron on this. When the matting is hot dip 
a glass rod or stick in the acid and touch the stain; it will 
instantly turn to a bright yellow. Wash quickly with the 
boiling water, using the nail brush; then with the clear 
water, using the sponge; wipe dry. The work must be done 
quickly and all the acid removed from the matting by 
repeated sponging with clean water. I always, when pos- 
sible, heat the stain, as the acid acts more quickly on a hot 
than on a cold substance. 

TO ERADICATE INK STAINS 

Yes, there are chemicals that will remove stains made by 
nearly all kinds of writing-ink. I am rather reluctant to 
give this process because the average person is not careful 
to follow directions, and it is important in this case that the 
directions should be followed exactly. I have used the pro- 
cess successfully on paper, books, white goods, carpets, and 
on the green felt of my writing-desk. The chemicals are 
apt to change or remove the colors in colored cotton goods. 
Here is the rule: Dissolve four ounces of bicarbonate of 
soda in half a pint of boiling water; add an ounce of chlo- 
ride of lime; stir until nearly all the lime is dissolved, then 
cover and let the liquid settle. Strain through cheese- 
cloth into a bottle. This is Javelle water. Cork tight and 
keep in a box, as exposure to light is injurious to it. 

Get at a druggist's two glass stirring-rods, and four 
ounces of acetic acid. 

When you wish to remove an ink stain, put on the table 
a large plate, the glass stirring-rods, and a small quantity 
of each chemical in two separate bottles. Spread the stain 
on the plate; dip a glass rod in the acetic acid and rub the 
stain gently until moistened. Dip the other rod in the 



SUPPLEMENTARY 859 

Javelle water and rub on the stain. Wait a few seconds 
and repeat the application of Javelle water if the stain does 
not disappear. When the ink is removed go over the spot 
with the rod wet with acetic acid. This is to neutralize 
the Javelle water. I should rinse wash goods in clear 
water. 

You can purchase the Javelle water at a druggist's, or 
you can buy for twenty-five cents a small, ink-eradicating 
outfit. It is virtually what I have given here. 

CEMENTS FOR MENDING CHINA AND CROCKERY 

Expensive articles are sometimes mended by riveting the 
pieces together, but it is difficult to get a cement that will 
resist long exposure to water. Articles that are mended 
with pure white lead» or with a mixture of powdered as- 
bestos and water-glass, will hold together if washed with 
care— that is, washed and wiped quickly. Articles mended 
in this manner will not bear soaking in water. Rub a thin 
coat of the best white lead on the broken edges, then press 
together and tie in position with bands of cloth. Keep the 
articles in a dry place for six weeks before using, 

ASBESTOS AND SILICATE OP SODA 

Mix together enough powdered asbestos and silicate of 
soda (liquid glass) to make a thick paste. Put a thin coat- 
ing of this on the broken edges of the article to be mended, 
and press together. The parts must be held together firmly 
for at least an hour. When possible use a rubber band. 

TO PREPARE WHITEWASHED OR CALCIMINED WALLS FOR 

PAPERING 

Brush the walls with weak vinegar and when dry brash 
off the loose lime. 



aeO HOME ECONOMICS 



POUNDING IN WATEB-PIPES 

The pounding so frequently heard in the kitchen boiler 
and pipes, as a rule, comes from one of two causes. The 
water is raised to so high a temperature that some of it is 
changed to steam. All that is necessary in this case is to 
open the faucets and let water and steam pass off. The 
second cause, and one which is not so frequent, is an ac- 
cumulation of dirt in the pipes of the water-back. In this 
case all that is necessary is for the plumber to disconnect 
the pipes and blow the dirt out. 

WHEN IT IS NECESSARY TO BOIL DRINKING WATER 

The following is a physician's rule for boiling and aerating 
drinking-water. Boil the water for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, then pour it into a stone jar and cover it with a piece 
of cheese-cloth. Let it stand in a cool place for twelve or 
more hours, then put it into beer bottles having patent 
stoppers, and place on the cellar floor or in the refrigerator. 
Water prepared in this manner is bright and palatable. 
The stone jar, bottles and cheese-cloth must be thoroughly 
washed, scalded and dried each time they are used. 

METHODS OF CLEANING LACE 

" How shall I clean my lace," is a question that is fre- 
quently asked. In answer to these constant inquiries, here 
are some methods that I have used successfully. It must 
be remembered that no matter what the process of clean- 
ing may be, three things are necessary to success : care, 
patience and time. With these three things a good lace 
may be made to look as well as when new. While it would 
not pay one to follow the same method with common as 



SUPPLEMENTARY 361 

with fine laces, still it always pays to do a thing properly. 
The reader will use' her own judgment in selecting the 
method for her special kind of lace. 

FRENCH METHOD OF CLEANING FINE LACE 

Make a strong suds of castile or any pure white soap. 
Let it be hardly tepid. Let the lace soak in this a few 
hours. If possible let the dish stand in the sun. Sop and 
squeeze it in the hands until the dirt starts from the lace. 
Now put it into the second suds and treat in the same way, 
and then again into a third suds. The handling must be 
done very carefully and gently. Next rinse in clear water. 
Examine and see if it is perfectly clean and let it stand in 
clear water until you are ready to spread it on your board. 
Have the board covered with a clean piece of white flannel. 
It wants to be stretched perfectly smooth and tight. If the 
piece of lace is very long, of course you will require a long 
board or table. The flannel better be tacked on the board 
to make it perfectly smooth and tight. Now squeeze the 
water from the lace, and put it through a water with very 
little bluing. 

If you want to get the old gray look that the point laces 
usually have, add to this bluing water a drop or two of black 
ink. Be careful not to get too much, only a suggestion. 
Try a piece of some white fabric in it before you put the 
lace in. Now squeeze the lace from this, spread on your 
board, and with a long pin or needle pick out every point or 
loop, fastening each point with a small pin. Just press the 
pin through into the board to hold it. Let it dry in the 
sun. If you would like a little stiffening in the lace, make 
the thinnest kind of starch, using a teaspoonf ul of dry starch 
to a quart of water. While this is still boiling add half a 
teaspoonful of white gum arable which has been soaked in 
two or three tablespoonf uls of cold water for a few hours. 



362 HOME EGONOMIGS 

Strain this, put a little in a saucer. Have two clean sponges. 
Dip one into the starch. Be sure not to have enough of the 
starch to drop from it, pass lightly over the lace and wipe 
at once with the dry sponge, so that the starch may not 
pass through to the flannel. Do only a little bit at a time 
and let dry again in the sun, and when dry take off care- 
fully and fold or roll as you may think best. 

WASHING FINE LACES 

Have a strip of flannel, on which baste the lace, using 
care to have every point basted down smoothly. Make a 
strong suds of white soap and water. Dissolve one tea- 
spoonful of borax in half a pint of boiling water, and add 
it to two quarts of the suds. When this liquid is tepid lay 
the lace in it and let it soak for ten hours or more. Then 
sop and squeeze the flannel, but do the work carefully and 
gently ; then squeeze out all the suds and drop the flannel 
in a bowl of hot suds. Work gently in this water. Now 
rinse in fresh water until the water looks clear. Finally 
starch and squeeze as dry as possible. Tack the flannel on 
a clean board, drawing it very tight in all directions. See 
that every part of the lace lies smooth and that all the 
meshes are open. When dry cut the basting threads and 
draw them out very gently. The lace may be tinted in the 
last rinsing water if the dead white is not liked. If the lace 
is point or any of the laces with raised designs, it will be 
necessary to lift the raised work with a small pointed in- 
strument ; a toothpick may be used. 

GLEANING GOMMON LAGES 

Make the suds as for fine laces and let the lace soak in 
this for ten hours or more; then rub gently between the 
palms of the hands. Wash in a second suds in the same 



SUPPLEMENTARY 363 

manner, then rinse until the water is clear. If the lace is 
to be tinted, do it now, then starch. Have a flannel tacked 
tightly on a board; spread the lace on this and pin to the 
flannel. Be sure that the lace is drawn out properly and 
that each point is fastened to the flannel with a pin. Or, 
the wet lace may be drawn out perfectly smooth, covered 
with a piece of cheesecloth, and ironed with a moderately 
hot iron until quite dry. 

STARCH FOR LACES 

Mix one teaspoonful of starch with two tablespoonf uls of 
cold water and pour on this one pint of boiling water. 
Place on the fire and add one fourth of a teaspoonful of 
sugar, and one fourth of a teaspoonful of gum-arabic 
which has been soaked in one tablespoonf ul of cold water. 
Boil for five minutes, stirring all the while. Strain through 
cheesecloth. For laces in which only a suggestion of starch 
is required double the quantity of water. For heavy laces 
that are required to be rather stiff use only half the quan- 
tity of water. 

GUM-ARABIC STARCH 

Gum-arabic starch is made by putting one fourth of an 
ounce of the best white gum-arabic in a cup or wide- 
mouthed bottle with one gill of cold water. Let it soak for 
two or three hours, then place in a basin of cold water and 
put on the fire to dissolve. Stir frequently; strain through 
cheesecloth. This makes a very stiff starch. For articles 
*^^hat need to be only slightly stiffened a quart of water or 
even more may be added to the dissolved gum-arabic. 

TINTING LACE 

To give thread lace a soft, old look pass it through water 
that has been slightly blued and to which has been added a 



864 HOME ECONOMICS 

little black ink— one drop of ink for every half pint of 
water. For an 6cru tint use tea^ coffee or saffron. Make 
the tinting fluid fairly strong and try a comer of the lace 
in it; if too strong add water. To my mind, tea is the 
most satisfactory agent, but it does not give as yellow a tint 
as coffee or saffron. 

CLEANING LACES WITH GASOLINE OR NAPHTHA 

Put the laces in a bowl and cover with naphtha. Let 
them soak for an hour, then wash by sopping and rubbing 
between the palms of the hands. Rinse the lace in a second 
bowl of naphtha, then pull it into shape. The texture of 
the lace is not changed in the least by this method of 
cleaning. If you want to stiffen it dip it in a thin solution 
of gum-arabic, pin it to a covered board and let it dry. 
There must be neither fire nor light in the room when the 
lace is being washed with the naphtha, and the windows 
must be open 

CLEANING LACE WITH ABSORBENTS 

Mix together equal quantities of cream of tartar, mag- 
nesia and powdered French chalk. Spread the lace on a 
piece of cloth and sprinkle it thickly with the mixture and 
roll up. Let the lace lie in this for a week or ten days, 
then shake off the cleaning mixture. With a soft clean 
cloth wipe the lace. This method will only answer for laces 
that are not much soiled. 

TO REMOVE YELLOW SPOTS FROM OLD LACES 

Wet the lace and spread it where it will freeze. Or 
make very wet and spread it in the hot sun. In either case 
the lace may require several days to bleach and it must be 
kept wet all the time. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 365 



GRASS STAINS 

When all other remedies fail, grass and other green 
stains may be removed with grease. Rub lard on the stain, 
then wash with soap and cold water. Finish washing in 
the usual manner. 

PEACH STAINS 

When boiling water will not remove peach stains soak 
the stain in a solution of oxalic acid for five minutes, then 
rinse thoroughly in several clear waters. Hang the article 
out of doors in the sun and the stain will disappear in 
an hour or two. This treatment is only for white wash- 
goods. 

BLUE STAINS PROM BLUING, ETC. 

Wash the stain with alcohol and it will disappear. 

EASY BIETHOD OP REMOVING SPOTS PROM GARMENTS 

With the aid of a small nail or tooth brush nearly all 
kinds of spots may be removed with ease from garments, 
etc. 

Put some folded cheesecloth under the stain. Wet the 
brush in the cleaning substance and rub the stain gently 
with it. Repeat until the spot is clean, then pat the spot 
with some dry cheesecloth. Take up on the brush only a 
little liquid at a time. On wash-goods for ordinary dirt use 
clear, cold water at first, then follow with white soap and 
hot water For oil or grease of any kind use cold water and 
soap at first. Finish, if necessary, with hot water. On 
goods that are not washable use naphtha, gasoline^ or fresh, 



366 HOME ECX)NOMIGS 

clear turpentine. For delicate colors use chloroform or 
ether. For other methods see stains on f abrics, page 300. 

DO NOT USE STRONG ALKALIES IN LAUNDERING WOOLENS 

Alkalies, like soda and potash, even when very dilute, 
have a tendency to dissolve, and gelatinize wool fiber and 
should not be employed in washing woolens. Ammonia 
softens and cleanses wool, but it is better for colored than 
white garments, as it has a tendency to make white flannels 
yellow. Borax softens, whitens and cleanses woolens. 

TO WASH FEATHER PILLOWS 

Dissolve one pound of sal-soda and half a pound of soap 
in two quarts of boiling water. Pour this into a tub with 
six pailf uls of warm water.- Dissolve half a pound of chlor- 
ide of lime in a quart of boiling water. Let it settle, then 
stir into the tub of soda water. Have the pillows well 
beaten and then put them into the tub, pressing them down 
with a wooden stick. Soak them for one hour, working the 
solution through them by means of a stick. Rinse in sev- 
eral waters. Press as free as possible from water. Hang 
on the line. TTum and shake frequently. Select a bright 
windy day for this work. 

TO DEODORIZE AND RENOVATE FEATHERS 

Put the feathers in a large bag of white mosquito netting 
and soak them for two hours in chloride of lime water, then 
rinse in several waters and dry in the open air. The 
feathers must be put loosely in the bag and the bag shaken 
frequently while they are drying. Allow half a pound of 
chloride of lime to eight pailf uls of water, and be sure that 
all the lime is dissolved. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 367 



TO CURB FEATHERS 

To cure feathers, dissolve two pounds of quicklime in two 
gallons of water. Let the mixture settle, then pour off the 
clear liquid. Soak the feathers in this for four days, then 
rinse in several clean watera and dry. 

TO CLEAN LIGHT AND DARK PURS 

For light furs, mix together a pint of flour, a pint of 
bran and a tablespoonf ul of fullers' earth. Brush and shake 
the furs ; then lay them on a table and rub with the above 
mixture, using a coarse piece of flannel, and rubbing the 
wrong way of the fur. Shake out all the cleaning material 
and go over the fur again in the same way, using only bran 
this time. Shake out the bran and wipe the fur with 
cheesecloth. Dark furs are cleaned in the same way, save 
that hot bran alone is used. Heat the bran in a double 
boiler, or it may be heated in the oven. 

TO DRY CLEAN WHITE KID 

Belts, shoe?, gloves, etc., of white kid may be cleaned in 
the following manner : Mix together equal quantities of 
finely powdered alum aijd pipe clay or fullers' earth. Dip a 
piece of flannel in the dry powder and rub the soiled kid 
with it. When thoroughly cleaned brush with a piece of 
clean flannel, and then rub the kid with bran to remove all 
the earth and alum. Wipe with a soft clean cloth. 

TO LAUNDER SILKS, PONGEES, AND SILK EMBROIDERIES 

Make a strong suds with a mild white soap. Have a 
weak suds in a second tub. Wash the articles in the strong 



368 HOME EOONOmCS 

suds, using the hands for rubbing. Wash again in the v^eak 
suds, and then rinse in plenty of clear cold water. Press 
the water from the silk, but do not wring. Shake out the 
wrinkles, then spread on clean sheets and roll tight. The 
water for washing silk must never be more than tepid. This 
treatment is for pongees, white and light-colored silks. If 
the white silks are very much soiled add a little dissolved 
borax to the first washing water. To iron, place a piece of 
cheesecloth between the silk and the iron. Do not use a 
very hot iron. Never let any part of the silk dry before 
ironing. If by any chance it should become dry, roll it in a 
wet cloth to dampen it. Sprinkling water on the dry silk 
is apt to spot it. Silk underwear should be dried on the 
line and then pressed with a warm iron. 

Silk embroideries should be pressed on the wrong side. 
The iron should be a little hotter for embroidery than for 
silk. 

THE IRONING OP STARCHED ARTICLES MADE EASY 

Dry the starched articles perfectly, then dip them in a 
pail of boiling water and pass them through the wringer 
twice. They may then be ironed at once, or they may be 
rolled up in a dry cloth. The fabric may be ironed with 
greater ease after being dampened in this way than when 
sprmkled in the usual manner. 

STARCH LUSTER 

Soak, for six hours, one ounce of the best white gum- 
arabic in one quart of water; add two ounces of borax and 
heat to the boiling point, then add one ounce of glycerine. 
Cool, strain and bottle. Stir one tablespoonful of this 
luster into three quarts of starch made as directed above. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 369 



TO CLEAN CHAMOIS GLOVES 

Make a strong suds with white castile soap, or any other 
kind of good white soap, and to two quarts of suds add one 
teaspoonful of borax dissolved in half a pint of hot water. 
When the suds are cold, put the gloves on the hands and 
wash them slowly and gently, as if washing the hands. 
Rinse in the same manner in clear water; then draw off 
gently and hang in a shady place to dry, drawing them into 
shape when they are almost dry. When perfectly dry, rub 
them between the hands to soften them. When the 
chamois is wet it is tenderer than when dry, so it is impor- 
tant that the work be done gently. 



TO RENOVATE CRAPE 

A large piece of black crape or a veil will require great 
care that it may not be drawn out of shape. Tack several 
thicknesses of dark flannel smoothly and firmly on a board. 
Spread on this board as much of the crape as will lie 
smoothly. Pin the edges to the flannel. Wring a large 
crash towel out of water, being careful not to make it too 
dry, and spread it over the crape. Have two or three very 
hot irons; go over the towel with an iron, being careful not 
to let the weight rest on the crape. Change the iron as 
often as it is necessary to have it very hot to produce 
steam. When one part of the crape is finished move it 
along and treat the next section in the same manner, pin- 
ning and covering with the wet towel as before. When 
every part has been steamed lay the crape on a flat surface 
and in a dry atmosphere for ten or twelve hours. When 
perfectly dry it will be ready to use. 

24 



370 HOME ECONOMIGS 



TO SET COLORS IN COTTON FABRICS 

Sugar of lead, I think, is the best all round mordant. Pre- 
pare by dissolving one ounce of sugar of lead in eight quarts 
of water. Soak the article over night in this liquid. In 
experiments with the sugar of lead solution I found it 
darkened reds and yellows, lightened greens, and deepened 
blues slightly. Remember that sugar of lead is a poison. 
Do not leave the powder or solution within reach of 
children. When you have finished with the liquid pour it 
into the drain, and not on the ground, where it might filter 
into the well. 

HOW TO REVIVE COLORS IN COTTON FABRICS 

For several years I have been making experiments with 
faded fabrics. The results have been unequal, so much 
depends upon the dyes and other conditions. For example, 
the agent that will revive and brighten one sample of red 
will give a purplish tinge to another. Some dark blues 
were brightened while other samples were given a dull or 
purplish tinge. Light blues were sometimes given a 
greenish tinge. The tendency of all yellows seemed to be 
toward a suggestion of brown, no matter what chemical was 
used. In some cases this was so slight that it would not be 
observed except by close inspection. Here is a list of what 
seems to me the simplest and most useful revivers the 
housekeeper can use. Read this list carefully and select 
the agents that seem the most desirable for the colors you 
wish to revive. The article should soak for an hour or 
more in the reviver. 

Reds— Citric acid deepened the color many shades. 
Acetic acid slightly darker and brighter. 



SUPPLEMENTARY 371 

Alum deepened and dulled the color. 
Yellows— Alum brightened the color. 

Acetic acid, lighter and brighter. 
Greens— Citric acid deepened the color several shades. 

Acetic acid, nearly the same effect. 
Blues— Acetic acid deepened and brightened. 

Citric acid, several shades deeper than acetic. 

Sulphuric acid deepened and brightened some blues; to 
some navy blues it gave a purplish tinge, and to some 
light blues it gave a greenish tinge. 

The proportions used were as follows : 

Alum— Four tablespoonfuls to a gallon of water. 

Acetic Acid— Four tablespoonfuls to a gallon of water. 

Citric Acid— One ounce of the crystals to a gallon of 
water. 

Sulphuric Acid — Two tablespoonfuls to a gallon of 
water. 

to wash oriental rugs 

Have the rugs spread face down on the grass and beat 
well. Turn them over and sweep. Now spread the rugs, 
face up, on a clean floor, where they can have plenty of air, 
and remain until dry. 

Dissolve one pound of Ivory soap in two quarts of boiling 
water. Add to this a quarter of a pound of borax dissolved 
in two quarts of boiling water. Stir well and add a gallon 
of cold water. Have a new soft scrubbing brush, plenty of 
clean, dry cloths, two pails of clean cold water, a large 
sponge, and a broad, deep pan. Put some of the cleaning 
preparation in the pan. Dip the brush in the mixture and 
scrub about half a yard of the rug. Wash off with the 
sponge and clear water until perfectly clean, then wipe as 



372 HOME ECONOMICS 

dry as possible with the dry cloths. When this is finished, 
clean another piece of the rug, and continue until the entire 
rug is finished. Dry in the sun. 

Any rug or carpet that has fast colors may be treated in 
the same manner. 

TO CLEAN WITH FULLERS' EARTH 

Make a suds with a good white soap and hot water; make 
this the consistency of thin cream with fullers' earth. 
Have plenty of clean drying cloths, a small scrubbing-brush, 
a large sponge and a pail of fresh water. Put some of the 
cleaning mixture in a bowl and dip the brush in it; brush a 
small piece of the carpet with this; then wash with the 
sponge and cold water. Dry as much as possible with the 
sponge, and finally rub with dry cloths. Continue this till 
you are sure that all the carpet is clean; then let it dry. 

SOAP FOR CLEANING CARPETS 

Dissolve five pounds of soap in three quarts of water. 
Take from the fire and add a half pint of ox gall, two ounces 
each of turpentine and benzine, and one gill of household 
ammonia ; stir frequently until cool, then pour into glass 
janj and cover tightly. When ready to clean carpets or 
other fabrics dissolve some of the soap in warm water and 
proceed as with fullers' earth mixture used for cleaning 
carpets. Of course, it is understood that the carpet or 
fabrics must be brushed free from dust before the cleaning 
begins. 

TO RESTORE THE COLOR TO WORN PLACES IN CARPETS 

Get a small box of water-colors. Select a color to match 
that which you wish to restore. If you have not the right 



SUPPLEMENTARY 373 

shade combine colors to produce it. Use enough water to 
make the coloring liquid very thin. Apply with a brush. 

GREASE SPOTS ON A CARPET 

Cover the spots with fullers' earth, then wet with tur- 
pentine. Cover the paste with paper. In two days remove 
paper and brush off the dry paste. 

MENDING ON THE SEWING MACHINE. 

There are few busy women who have not done some kinds 
of mending on the sewing-machine. Few, however, realize 
how satisfactorily many kinds of darning can be done. 

Points to Remember: For thin, fine material use fine 
thread; for coarse material the thread may be between 
eighty and sixty, nothing coarser. When darning colored 
goods let the cotton or silk be the same color as the material 
to be darned. Hold the work smooth, and guide it the 
same as in ordinary stitching. When turning the work be 
sure that the needle is well in the goods. If the needle is 
lifted above the cloth a loop of thread will rest on the darned 
surface. For thin material loosen the pressor foot screw 
and shorten the stitch; for heavy material do not loosen the 
pressor foot. Set the stitch fairly long. 

Darning Household Linen. Loosen the pressor foot screw, 
shorten the stitch, thread the machine with fine cotton — 
about one hundred. Put the thin, frayed or torn place in 
position, holding it smooth, but being careful not to draw it. 
Begin the stitching a little beyond the damaged place. For 
places that are worn thin or frayed put in rows of stitching, 
close together. Cross these with other rows of stitching; 
this will give a smooth, fine texture. If there are decided 
holes in the article baste a piece of Brussels net, or thin 
muslin, on the wrong side and dam the same as on a worn 



374 HOME ECONOMIGS 

surface. If it is a slit or any kind of a tear hold the edges 
together as you guide the work, and stitch back and forth, 
having the rows of stitching wide apart. Cross this stitch- 
ing with other rows a little closer. If the mended place looks 
thin, where the edges are brought together, put two or three 
rows of stitching up and down the length of the rent. 

What May be Done with Underwear. Straight tears in 
underwear may be mended in the same manner as tears in 
sheets, etc. Tom embroideries can be held together, or, if 
the tears are large, may be lightly basted and then darned 
the same as household linen. Parts of garments that are 
worn thin can have a piece of thin muslin basted on the 
worn part, and then be stitched over until the article is as 
firm as when new. Cotton, silk and woolen undervests and 
drawers may be darned the same as table linen, but great 
care must be taken to keep the fabric drawn out smooth. 
When these garments are worn thin at the knees or in the 
seat, a piece of an old garment of the same kind can be 
basted smooth on the worn place, and then be darned over. 
If the old garment is not available use some kind of net; 
for white or cream color, Brussels net is very good. 

Stockings, because of their shape, cannot be darned in 
the feet, but at the knees, where children wear them so rap- 
idly, and near the top, where they are frequently injured 
by the garters, they may be darned neatly and quickly on 
the machine. If there is a large hole baste a piece of net 
on the under side, and then dam quickly over this. 

Men's, Women's and Boys' Cloth Garments. Tears and 
worn places in cloth fabrics can be darned most satisfac- 
torily on the sewing-machine. Thread the machine with 
silk or cotton of the same color as the fabric. Do not loosen 
the pressor foot; have the stitch of moderate length; dam 
the same as household linen, but the rows of stitching must 
be very close. Where the fabric is worn thin baste a piece 
of the same kind of goods on the wrong side, and dam over 



SUPPLEMENTARY 375 

it. If there is none of the same material a piece of net or 
muslin will answer. If the colors in the fabric are mixed 
have the upper thread of the machine of the most pro- 
nounced color and the under thread of the minor color. 

CARE OP THE HANDS 

Housework is rather hard on the hands, but there are 
some precautions which, if taken, will add greatly to the 
comfort of the worker and the appearance of the hands. 
Among the things which roughen and blacken the hands, 
the most important are dust, soap, fruit, vegetables, and 
neglect to properly dry the hands. Wash all vegetables 
before paring. When the hands are stained by fruit or 
vegetables be sure to remove the stains before the hands 
come in contact with soap 'or soapy water. Remove the 
stains with an acid, such as lemon, vinegar or sour milk, then 
wash in clear water. When using soap and water for any 
purpose, be sure to rinse off all the soap before wiping the 
hands. Always wipe the hands perfectly dry. Do not 
change soaps if you can avoid it, and always use a good 
soap. When sweeping and dusting, wear loose-fitting gloves. 
Have a pair of rubber gloves for use when it is necessary 
to have the hands in water a great deal. Grease spoils 
rubber, therefore the gloves must be washed perfectly clean 
as soon as the work is finished A little bran and milk or 
vinegar will make the hands clean and smooth after dish- 
washing or any other work that roughens them. With a 
little practice one can wash dishes as well and as quickly 
with a dish-mop as with a cloth and the hands There 
should be two mops, one for the tableware and one for the 
cooking-dishes. For washing floors have a self-wringing 
mop. To soften and whiten the hands use some sort of 
cream on them at night, then powder them with corn-starch, 
and put them in loose gloves kept for this purpose. 



376 HOME EGONOMIGS 



PREPARATION FOR SOFTENING AND WHITENING THE HANDS 

Put into a bottle two ounces of glycerine, the juice of 
two lemons and a few drops of carbolic acid. Shake well. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of water and shake again. After 
washing and wiping the hands rub a little of this mixture 
into them. Carbolized mutton tallow may be rubbed into 
the hands at night. After rubbing in the tallow, powder the 
hands with dry starch. Put on loose gloves. 

GARBOLIZED MUTTON TALLOW 

Cut a pound of mutton suet into fine shreds and put it in 
a stone or earthen bowl. Place the bowl in a pan of hot 
water on the range, stirring frequently until there is enough 
of the melted tallow to fill a half-pint cup. Turn this tal- 
low into a bowl, and as it begins to thicken beat into it half 
a teaspoonf ul of carbolic acid. This is excellent for chapped 
hands, and is also good to rub on the feet when they are 
tired or when one has chilblains. 

TOOTH POWDER 

iMix together two ounces of precipitated chalk, one ounce 
of powdered orris root and two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
white castile soap. Now rub through a sieve several times. 
Keep in a closely covered jar. To prepare the powdered 
soap, cut into thin shavings, dry, and then pound and sift. 
A little powdered camphor may be added to the tooth 
powder. 

SUNBURN REMEDY 

Have the druggist put the following ingredients into a 
large bottle: One pint and a half of orange-flower water, 



SUPPLEMENTARY 377 

half a pint of elder-flower water, two fluid ounces of tinc- 
ture benzoin, half a/ fluid-ounce of cologne water, four grains 
of camphor, sixty grains of ferrous sulphate, a quarter of an 
ounce of citric acid. Keep a small bottle of this mixture 
on your dressing-table and rub it on the hands and face 
night and morning. Shake the bottle well before using the 
contents. 

TO CURE CONTRACTED MUSCLES CAUSED BY A BURN 

To cure contracted muscles caused by a bum: The treat- 
ment should begin as soon as the bum is healed. Dissolve 
one ounce of Epsom Salts in four ounces of water. Keep the 
muscles wet with this liquid through the day and as much as 
possible through the night. The best way to do this is to 
have a soft cloth wet with the liquid, and bound on the con- 
tracted muscle. The cure is slow, but sure. This remedy 
has recently been discovered by a surgeon. One of my friends 
has been saved a surgical operation by this treatment, and 
is so grateful that she desires the knowledge to spread, 

CONCERNING HOUSEHOLD INSECTS 

To the bringing into our homes of fabrics, furniture and 
household supplies from all sources, in these days of uni- 
versal travel, there may be charged the introduction into our 
houses of some of the most annoying of destructive insects. 
If one knows something of the life cycle of these insects 
one can proceed intelligently in the work of exterminating 
them. A description of a few types and the remedies will 
give the housekeeper the key to the best methods of pro- 
tecting herself from these pests. Additional remedies will 
be found. on pages 341 to 346. The U. S. Department of 
Agriculture has published some valuable Bulletins on house- 
hold insects. If you cannot find these in your Public Li- 
brary send to Washington for them. 



378 HOME ECONOMICS 



CLOTHES MOTHS 

There are four stages in the life of the moth: the egg, 
the larva, the pupa, the moth. The moth generally deposits 
its eggs where the larva may find suitable food— that is, in 
furs, feathers and wool materials. 

The larva emerges from the egg in the form of a worm 
which immediately begins to feed upon its surroundings. It 
makes a case for itself with particles of the materials upon 
which it feeds, and moves about in this. If the article in 
which the eggs were deposited is soiled the development of 
the larva is rapid, and as a consequence the destruction of 
the material is greater than it would have been had the 
article been clean. 

When the larva reaches full growth it fastens itself to 
some substance, generally the article on which it has been 
feeding. In about three weeks the moth emerges from the 
case and soon begins depositing eggs for a new generation. 
Now, although the moth does not directly injure fabrics, it 
supplies the eggs from which the destructive larvae are 
hatched. When moths are seen flying about there is every 
reason to suspect that the eggs are being deposited. 

Before putting away woolens, furs or feathers see that 
they are as clean as possible. Wearing apparel should have 
all the pockets turned inside out, all the seams and hems 
brushed, and then be well shaken and aired. Clean all 
soiled places with benzine or turpentine. If there is any 
danger of eggs having been deposited in furs carefully comb 
the furs, using a steel comb. Pin the articles in cotton 
bags. Put them in boxes or closets that have been made 
insect and germ free by carbolic acid. Put bits of cotton 
wet with oil of cedar in the boxes or closets, or cedar chip8 
or camphor may be used. 

From early spring until late fall, carpets, upholstered fur- 



SUPPLEMENTARY 379 

niture and woolen garments hanging in closets in constant 
use should be brushed, beaten and aired frequently. 

SPRAJ FOR MOTHS 

Spray for moths is made by mixing together one quart of 
alcohol, one ounce each of carbdlic acid crystals and cam- 
phor, a quarter of an ounce each of oil of cedar and oil of 
eucalyptus. Keep the bottle well corked. Put some of the 
liquid in an atomizer and spray the places where the moths 
appear. 

TWO DESTRUCTIVE CARPET-BEETLES 

There are two well-known species of these beetles in this 
country: the buffalo-bug and the black carpet-beetle. The 
buffalo-bug is less than a quarter of an inch long; it is cov- 
ered with minute scales which give it a marble appearance; 
it has a red stripe down the middle of the back. At a first 
glance it might be taken for a lady-bug. Unlike the moth 
it likes the light and will often be found on window casings 
and draperies. In summer it will fly from the house to the 
garden. The eggs hatch in a few days. The larva is a 
dark, hairy oblong, which breaks like powder under slight 
pressure. When the larva is full grown it passes to the 
pupa stage, and from that to the beetle. As with the cloth 
moth, it is the larva that injures fabrics and various ma- 
terials. It does not confine its destructive work to carpets, 
but will eat through silks, woolens, feathers, and sometimes 
even cottons. It is easier to trace the carpet-beetle than 
the cloth-moth because the beetle does not shun the light, 
and the larva is not concealed in a case of the material upon 
which it is working. 

The precautions and remedies for this insect are practi- 
cally the same as for moths. When cleaning out closets, 



380 HOME EGONOMIGS 



boxes and drawers, spread an old sheet on the floor and shake 
the articles over it. The larvae will drop off readily, and 
may be crushed at once. Hang the infested articles in the 
air; spray the closets, boxes, drawers, cracks of floors, etc., 
with carbolic acid or naphtha. 

The black carpet-beetle is oval, black, and a little longer 
and narrower than the buffalo-bug. The larva is long and 
round, the body ends with a tuft of hair. The color of the 
body is light brown. Its habits are about the same as the 
buffalo-bug and the treatment should be along the same 
lines. 

ONE OP THE MOST DREADED PESTS 

Bedbugs are liable to find their way into any house or 
apartment, but it is the housekeepei^s fault if they find 
lodgment there. As with all other insects, perfect cleanli- 
ness is the greatest safeguard. If they are found in a 
room immediate action should be taken. There are many 
agents for exterminating these bugs, but my preference is 
for naphtha. It is clean, does not injure anything, is easily 
applied, and is absolutely sure if enough is used in the 
right place. The only drawback is that the vapor is very 
inflammable, but if the work is done in the morning with 
the windows open, and there is neither light nor fire in the 
room, there is not the slightest danger. It must be re- 
membered that these insects do not confine themselves to 
the bed. They get into picture moldings, the backs of pic- 
tures, cracks in floors and walls, and in upholstered furniture. 

The following wash will exterminate the pests. Mix to- 
gether in a large bottle half an ounce each of corrosive 
sublimate and powdered camphor, half a pint each of wood 
alchohol and turpentine; have the room cleaned and apply 
the wash with a small brush. Force it into the cracks and 
grooves in floors, walls and furniture, and carefully brush it 



I 



SUPPLEMENTARY 381 

over the backs of picture frames and the tops of picture 
molding. Do not use enough to run on the walls and fur- 
niture as it soils badly. 

Oil of red cedar will exterminate the pests. Another 
method is to fumigate with sulphur. 

THE DOMESTIC COCKROACH 

Some species of this insect are to be found in all coun- 
tries and climates. It is so well known that it needs no 
description here. It generally confines itself to the kitchen 
and back parts of the house where heat, moisture and food 
are to be found. These insects collect in old wood and 
boxes of papers. Hotels and apartment houses are liable to 
have this pest, but if one has full control of a house there 
need be no difficulty in keeping it free from them. Perfect 
cleanliness in the kitchen, pantries, cellar and backyard is 
all that is required. All garbage should be burned if pos- 
sible. If cockroaches are in the neighborhood they will be 
attracted by kitchen refuse, soiled and damp floorcloths 
and dish-towels, particles of food, particularly fats, etc. If 
these insects get into the house, spray with carbolic water 
all the cracks in walls and floors where they are seen, and 
use some one of the many non-poisonous preparations that 
are sold for this purpose. There is a powder [Roachelene] 
sold, which really exterminates them; they are attracted by 
it, eat it and shrivel up until they are reduced to a speck 
of dust. This process of exterminating them is much bet- 
ter than driving them to one's neighbors. 

SILVER MOTHS AND SILVER PISH 

Under these two heads, and also as bristle-tail, silver 
witch, etc., is known an insect that is destructive to paper 
books, starched articles and some kinds of food. The 



382 HOME ECONOmCS 

bristle-tail is about one third of an inch long, tapering from 
the head to the end of the body, which ends in three thread- 
like caudal appendages. It is silvery white with a tinge of 
yellow in the legs and abdomen. It finds its way to every 
part of the house, even under the wall paper/ where it feeds 
on the paste. The remedies for this pest are plenty of 
light and air, frequent brushings of every part of the room, 
insect powder injected into crevices, and sprayed on walls, 
floors and shelves. Rooms infested with these pests may 
be fumigated with sulphur, or have a thorough treatment 
with naphtha or carbolic acid. Oil of cedar is also good. 

Use the same remedies for the spring-tail and the book- 
louse, should they at any time appear in any part of the 
house. 

ANTS 

Of all the insect pests which trouble the housekeeper 
there are none that are so difficult to deal with as these 
interesting little creatures. To understand the difficulty of 
exterminating either the black or red ant one must know 
something of their habits. Here is a brief outline which 
will aid the housekeeper in carrying out a successful plan 
for the extermination of these pests. Ants live in colonies 
and are divided into males, females and neuters. The 
neuters do the work. The males and females rarely leave the 
colony. The swarms of ants that appear in the house are 
composed of neuters. The destruction of these ants will 
lessen the nuisance, but the insects cannot be exterminated 
in this manner, for others to replace them will be produced 
in the colony. The colony or nest must be found and the 
males and females destroyed. This is a difficult matter, and 
and it is only by patient watching that one is able to follow 
the ants to their home. The colony may be in the soil out- 
side the house, in which case it is easily found; or it may be 



SUPPLEMENTARY 383 

in the walls, or under the floors of the house, where it is 
more difficult to reach them. 

To exterminate ants trace them to their home. To do 
this it may be necessary to remove part of a floor or the 
baseboard of a room. Wherever the nest is found such 
measures must be taken as shall kill all life in it. If the 
nest is in the house saturate it with kerosene oil or with 
boiling water. If the nest is in the ground have a long 
sharp-pointed stick, which press into the nest, remove 
quickly, and pour about two ounces of disulphide of carbon 
into the hole; close at once by pressing the foot on the 
hole. Proceed in this manner until six holes are made, 
filled and closed. The fumes of disulphide of carbon will 
penetrate to every part of the nest, destroying all life. Be 
careful not to breathe the fumes of the chemical, and be 
very careful not to have light or fire near when using it. 
A lighted candle, cigar or pipe might cause an explosion. 

Ants may be trapped in either of the following two ways : 
Cover plates with a thin coat of lard and set them in the 
places infested by the insects. Place little sticks at the side 
on which they can mount to the plates. When the plates 
are full drop them into a pan of hot water. Or, wet sponges 
with sweetened water and place them about. When full of 
the ii»ects drop into hot water. 

Strong odors will sometimes drive away these pests, but 
as a rule one does not want to use such odors where there 
is food. Among the odors that may be used are oil of 
pennyroyal, oil of cedar (a few drops put on bits of cotton, 
which are then placed in the infested places), or gum 
camphor. 

To protect food keep it as much as possible in closely 
covered tin boxes, or in the refrigerator, or on tables which 
are protected by having the legs placed in four dishes, in 
each of which there has been poured some tar water, to the 
depth of about four inches. 



384 HOME EGONOMIGS 



FLEAS AND REMEDIES FOR THEM 

These insects hide in floors and walls, and in and under 
carpets. As a rale any of the following methods will eradi- 
cate them: A thorough treatment of the room with naph- 
tha; taking the carpets and upholstered furniture out-of- 
doors and saturating them with naphtha; cleaning the room 
with carbolic water, injecting it into all cracks and ledges; 
spraying every part of the room and furniture with insect 
powder. Often a thorough sweeping, brushing and airing 
are all that is required to rid a room entirely of these pests. 

SPRAY FOR FLEAS AND MOSQUITOES 

Dissolve two ounces of oil of eucalyptus in one pint of 
alcohol. Into another bottle put two ounces of oil of bay 
and add two ounces of ether. Cork the bottles tight and 
shake occasionally. When the contents of both bottles are 
dissolved pour the alcohol mixture on the ether mixture. 
Use this with an atomizer, spraying the localities in the 
room where the fleas or mosquitoes are. The fleas are gen- 
erally in the lower part of the room, while the mosquitoes 
are usually on the upper parts of the walls and the ceiling. 

HOW TO EMPLOY OIL OF CEDAR 

Oil of red cedar will kill all insects. Open all boxes, drawers, 
closets, etc.; wet little wads of cotton batting with oil of 
red cedar and scatter about the room, being careful not to 
let them come in contact with clothing or furnishings, as the 
oil makes a bad stain. Close the room as tightly as possible 
to keep in the strong odor. If possible keep the room closed 
for two days. If you cannot get the oil of red oedar, use 
about four times as much of the common oil of cedar. It 



SUPPLflMENTARY 385 

will take about three ounces of oil of red cedar for a large 
room. 

HOW TO FUMIGATE WITH SULPHUR 

Take all metals and colored fabrics from the room; paste 
strips of paper over the cracks of windows and doors; put 
an iron or tin pan in the middle of the room, and in it put 
water to the depth of three inches. Put a couple of bricks 
in the pan, and on these place an old iron pan in which you 
have put a bed of burning charcoal. Throw a few ounces 
of finely-broken sulphur on this and close the door. Do not 
open the room for twenty-four hours. Sulphur candles 
may be employed in place of the charcoal and sulphur. 
This method is effective for carpet bugs, bed bugs, moths, 
and disease germs. 

HOW TO SEAL A ROOM 

When getting a room ready to disinfect it is important 
that it should be sealed so tight that but little of the disin- 
fecting fumes shall escape, and also that the sealing agent 
shall be easy to remove. Here is a method that is simple 
and clean: Soak two teaspoonfuls of powdered gum traga- 
canth in one pint of cold water for an hour, then place the 
bowl in a pan of boiling water and stir frequently until the 
gum is all dissolved. Have newspapers cut into strips 
about two inches wide and paste six thicknesses together. 
Paste these over the cracks of doors and windows, leaving 
the door by which you leave the room to be sealed after the 
f umigator is lighted. If there is a fireplace in the room it 
must be covered with several thicknesses of thick brown 
paper. The gum tragacanth is easily washed off and does 
not discolor either paint or woodwork. 



386 HOME ECONOMICS 



PUTTING AWAY WOOLENS AND PURS 

Many a housekeeper packs away her furs and woolens 
with fear and trembling, not knowing what may be their 
condition when they are unpacked in the fall. In many 
cases there certainly is reason for this fear, because the arti- 
cles have not been thoroughly cleaned. If moths or their 
eggs are left in the folded articles there is sure to be a 
large colony of larvae, which will eat its way through all 
the woolen and fur articles in its vicinity. On the other 
hand, if closets and other receptacles are made absolutely 
clean, and then treated with some insecticide, and if the 
garments are made perfectly free from insects and their 
eggs, the housekeeper can go away with an easy mind. 

When ready to put away furs, feathers or woolens have 
some clean sheets or cotton bags. For garments that are 
to be hung up, the bags are better than sheets. Have the 
closets or boxes made clean as directed. Brush the furs 
and shake well. Hang in the sun for several hours. If you 
have a suspicion that there are eggs in the furs comb each 
piece of fur well. Pin the articles in the sheets, and on the 
sheets pin little wads of cotton batting, dampened with oil 
of cedar. Paint the joining of the boxes with oil of cedar 
then line with paper. When the box is full cover with 
paper, put on the regular cover, and put away in closet or 
storeroom. 

Feathers and all woolen garments are treated like furs. I 
am sure that if these instructions are followed no kind of 
an insect will appear in either closet or box. The odor of 
oil of cedar is very strong, but passes off in a few days when 
there is thorough ventilation. Of course it is important 
that this odor should be retained in closets and boxes, and 
for this reason they must be closed tight. Oil of cedar 



SUPPLEMENTARY 387 

makes a reddish-yellow stain which it is hard to remove; 
therefore it should not come in contact with the clothing. 
The sheets used should be kept solely for packing purposes. 
A small unstoppered bottle of chloroform put in a corner of 
the packing box will protect the contents from moths or 
carpet bugs. 

HOW TO PREPARE A HOUSE FOR CLOSING 

When closing the house for a month or more take such 
precautions that you may be sure of finding it sweet and 
healthful on your return. Have rugs cleaned and packed 
away the same as other woolens. Take down, clean and 
put away all draperies. If you have upholstered furniture 
give that a good beating and brushing. Have the house 
thoroughly swept and dusted. Have the floors in kitchen, 
pantries and laundry washed with water to which a little 
carbolic acid has been added. Flush the plumbing with 
carbolic acid water; then a few hours before you leave the 
house flush with hot sal-soda water— one pound of the soda 
to a gallon of water; for the kitchen sink and set tubs make 
it two pounds of soda to the gallon of water. Soda is 
cheap, so be generous with the flushing liquid. The house 
is protected from sewer gas by the water seal in each 
waste-pipe— that is to say, water to the depth of a few inches 
is supposed to remain at all times in each trap, but when 
the plumbing is not used for weeks at a time this layer of 
water is evaporated, the seal is broken and sewer gas pours 
into the house. To prevent the evaporation of the water in 
the trap, just before leaving the house pour a few spoon- 
fuls of sweet oil into each trap. 

Have everything in the way of cereals, or anything eat- 
able, and gums, such as gum-arabic, tragacanth, etc., also 
candles, matches, etc., in metal or stone receptacles, that 
the mice may have nothing to attract them. If you have 



888 HOME EGONOMIGS 

carpets on your floors strew bits of cotton, on which you 
have poured oil of cedar, along the edges of the carpets. I 
would use this oil in every part of the house. The odor is 
so overpowering that it cannot be employed in quantity 
until you are about to depart. 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Absorption, removing grease from 
fabric by, 307 
removing grease from wood by, 311 
removing ink by, 302 
Accounts, household, 350 
Acid, action of, on marble, 65 
carbolic, 96, 343, 345 
carbon dioxide, action of, on lime, 

31 
carbonic, action of, in batters and 

doughs, 253 
carbonic, how and when liberated, 

254 
carbonic, proportion in air, 57 
carbonic, source of, 253 



danger of contamination, 57 

definition of pure, 57 

flowing over or under fire, effects 

of, 145 
free circulation of, through fuel, 

144 
fresh, for furnace, 138 
pure, method of obtaining, in the 

house, 56 
to test purity of, 331 
Air-l>ox, 137, 138 
nacessity of supply of pure air in, 

138 



Air-bubbles, in student lamp, 130 
Aitchbone, 176 

effect of, on brass and copper, 68 Alabaster, to clean, 328 
muriatic, 304 Albumin, effect of temperature 

nitric, used as a test for impuri- on, 234 

ties in water, 34 property of coagulation of, 234 

oxalic, solution of, 332 test to show effect of heat on, 236 

oxalic, to remove stains from floor Albuminous compounds, impera- 



with, 319 

stains, to remove, 308 

to neutralize, when spilled on mar- 
ble, 65 

used in cleaning plumbing, 95 
Aids in darning, 308 



Air, a force in making batters and Alcohol, 74 



tive necessity for, 259 
food, 227 

matter, where found, 234 
matter, tendency to fermentation 

and putrefaction, 236 
substances, cooking of, 235 



doughs light, 253 

cold, regulating supply in furnace, 
138 

contaminated, causes disease, 58 

current of, under flre causes com- 
bustion, 143 

current of, over fire retards com- 
bustion, 144 



dissolves gums, 310 
dissolves varnishes, 307 
removes stains, 291, 305 
solvent power of, 291 
stains on wood finishes, 310 
when spilled on varnish, what to 
do, 310, 339 
Alimentary canal, 225 



391 



392 



INDEX 



Alkaline solutions, how to neu- 
tralize, 70 
Alkalis, effect on white boards, 311 

how to test action of, 70 

most commonly used in the house- 
hold, 70 

soda for cleaning iron and steel, 90 

soda and borax in the laundry, 99 

what to do when alkaline mixtures 
are spilled on painted or var- 
nished surfaces, 71, 339 
Alloys, melting-point of some, 347 
Alum, 334 
Ammonia, 65, 70, 99, 103, 108, 

318. 321, 337, 339 
Animal, minor parts of the, 192 

feet, 192 

heads, 193 

hearts, 193 

kidneys, 193 

livers, 193 

sweetbreads, 194 

tongues, 193 

tripe, 193 
Announcing meals, 162 
Anthracite coal, 134, 135 

how to manage, 141 
Ants, 343 

Appliances, ironing, arrangement 
of, 120 

lighting, care of, 126 

proper, for working in the pantry, 
165 

used in polishing floors, 275 
Artichoke, 259 
Ash, 264 
Ashes, absorb heat, 145 

for cleaning, 87 

removing from flues and pans, 145 
Asparagus, 259 

Back yards, 93 

Bacon fat, 233 

Bacteria, 349 

Bacteriology, 349 

Baking batters and doughs, 

general rule for, 255 
Balls, scouring, 335 
Basin, stationary, 23 



Basswood, 266 
Bastard, 264 
Batters, 253, 255 

and eggs, how and why they should 
be beaten, 255, 256 
Beans, 245 

green, 259 
Bed-blankets, 44, 105 
Bedrooms,best kind of light for, 41 

best floor for, 41 

how to furnish, 41 

method of ventilating in cold wea- 
ther, 56 
Beds, desirability of single, 41 

how to make, 44 

how they can be made absolutely 
comfortable, 42 

importance of well-made, 44 

kind of mattresses for, 42 

kind and size of coverings, 43 

length of, 43 

length of sheets, 43 
Bed-springs, 45 
Beef. See Marketing, 
Beets, 257 
Benzene, 293 
Benzole, 294 
Bile, 226 
Bins, for fuel, 9 
Bismarck brown, 281 
Bituminous coal, 134, 135, 146 
Black, aniline, 281 
Black spots on wood, to remove, 

311, 319 
Black walnut, to stain wood, 281 
Blankets, the advantage of light 
wool, 44 

the best way to press, 106 

how to remove spots from, 105 

when and how to wash, 105 
Block-tin, care of, 78 
Blood stains, 301, 305 
Boiled meats, 240 
Boiling albuminous substan- 
ces, 238 
Boots, how to put new linings in, 

336 
Borax, 99, 103, 104, 106, 108, 109, 
110, 112, 115, 134, 137 



INDEX 



393 



Braizing meats, 240 

Brass, cleaning substances, to se- 
lect, 69 

effect of acids on, 68 

effect of dampness on, 70 

to clean, 68 

to clean with an acid and salt, 69 

to clean with sal-soda and an acid, 
69 

trimmings of furniture, to polish, 
328 
Bread, 164 

the ideal, 244 
Breakfast, preparation for, 162 

table, 151 
Bricks, 18 
Britannia, 49 

care of, 78 
Broiling meats, 240 
Bronzes, to clean, 328 
Brusli, weighted, care of, 276 

weighted, how to use, 275 

weighted, how to clean, 276 
Brushes, hair, how to clean, 337 
Buffalo-bugs, 345 
Building, materials used in, 17 
Burning-points of fats, 231 
Bums, lime-water and oil for, 329 
Butter, 199, 231, 234 

to clarify, 231 

to sweet n rancid, 234 

melting-point of, 348 

Cabbage, 250, 259 
Candle-grease, 307 
Carbohydrates, 224 
Carbolic acid, how to dissolve, 331 

how it may be used to advantage, 
331 

in cleaning clothes-closets, 345 

used in exterminating insects, 345 
Carbon compounds, 223, 224 
Carbonic-acid gas, sources of, 
253 

when and how liberated, 254 
Care of cellar, 90 

of dining-room, 75 

of dishes, 163 

of fats, 232 



of floors in kitchen and pantry, 80 

of furnace fires, 136 

of kitchen and pantries, 79 

of kitchen utensils, 82 

of lamps, 127 

of lighting appliances, 126 

of natural-wood finishes, 73 

of outside doors, 73 

of plumbing, 93 

of range, 140 

of refrigerator, 88 

of the tea-kettle, 87 

of window-sashes, 74 
Carpet-cleaning, 64 
Carpets, cutting for register, 314 

matting, to lay, 314 

method of laying, 313 

tendency of oil-cloths and linoleum 
to stretch, 316 
Carrots, 247, 250 
Carve, beef, roast ribs, to, 207 

beef, rolled ribs, to, 207 

beef, round, to, 208 

beef, sirloin roast, to, 206 

birds, small, to, 219 

chicken, broiled, to, 216 

chicken, roast, to, 216 

cod's head and shoulders, to, 220 

duck, roast, to, 217, 218 

fish, small, to, 219 

bluefish, to, 220 

chicken halibut, to, 220 

flatfish, to, 220 

flounder, to, 220 

haddock, to, 220 

halibut, to, 220 

plaice, to, 220 

salmon, to, 220 

swordfish, to, 220 

fowl, boiled, to, 216 

goose, roast, to, 218 

grouse, roast, to, 219 

ham, to, 211 

lamb, fore quarter, to, 210 

lamb, hind quarter, to, 209 

lamb, leg, to, 209 

mutton, fore quarter, to, 209 

mutton, haunch, to, 209 

mutton, leg, to, 207, 208 



394 



INDEX 



mutton, loin, to, 209 

mutton, saddle, to, 208 

mutton, shoulder, to, 209 

partridge, to, 219 

pig, roast, to, 213 

pigeons, to, 219 

pork, loin, to, 211 

pork, spare rib, to, 211 

ptarmigan, to, 219 

tongue, to, 212 

turkey, to, 214 

veal, breast, to, 210 

veal, fillet of, to, 211 

veal, loin of, to, 210 

veal, neck, to, 211 

veal, shoulder, to, 211 

venison, haunch, to, 212 

venison, fore quarter, to, 212 

venison, leg, to, 212 

venison, loin, to, 212 

venison, shoulder, to, 212 
Carver, advantages of studying il- 
lustrations to the, 203 
Carver's chair, 205 
Carving, art of, 202 

cutting across the grain, 203 

fish, general rules for, 219 

how a joint or a fowl should be 
left for a second serving, 205 

knife, best way to sharpen, 204 

pleasure of, 202 

reason for giving four illustrations 
of shoulder of mutton, 203 
Casein, 224 

Casli accounts, why best, 350 
Castor-oil, 297 
Casts, plaster, how to clean, 327 

plaster, how to mend, 326 

plaster, how to oil, 328 

plaster, how to stain, 327 

plaster, how to wax, 327 
Cauliflower, 259 
Celery, 259 
Cellar, care of, 90 

condition of, 1 

drainage of, 1, 6 

floors, 1, 7 

lighting and ventilation, 8 

method of cleaning, 90 



screens for, 91 
use of, 8 
walls, 1 

windows, when they should be open, 
91 
Cereals, 241, 243, 244, 259, 263 
high temperature develops the 
flavor of, 252 
Chalk, French, 307 
Charcoal, 26 

Checks and drafts, 140-144 
how to manage, 142 
what they are and how they work, 
144 
Cheese, 259 

Chemicals, careless use of, on 
finished surfaces, 70 
in cookery, 254 
in the laundry, 99 
their effects on certain materials, 

70 
to neutralize when employed in 

removing stains, 300 
valuable in the removal of stains, 
300 
Cherry, to stain wood, 281 
Chestnut (see Woods), 263 
Chicken, 216 
Chimneys, 1 
height of, 22 
lamp, cleaning of, 130 
China, appearance of , when properly 
washed, 78 
care not to crack the glaze, 77 
gilt on, should not be subject to 

strong alkalis, 78 
method of washing, 77 
sorting before washing, 78 
why it should not be piled together 
while warm, 77 
Chloride of lime, 26, 309, 329 
Chloroform, 307 
Chocolate stains, 307 
Clean, alabaster, to, 328 
brass, to, 68 
brass trimmings of furniture, to, 

328 
bronzes, to, 328 
brushes, to, 337 



INDEX 



395 



carpet, to, 64 

coat collars, to, S37 

combs and brushes, to, 337 

copper, to, 68 

draperies, to, 64 

enamel finish, to, 72 

fireplaces and grates, to, 64 

floors with petroleum, to, 274 

furniture, to, 65 

furniture leather, to, 65 

marble, to, 65 

marbles, small, to, 328 

painted woodwork, to, 70 

plaster casts, to, 327 

registers, to, 64 

room, to, 63 

rugs, to, 64 

silver, to, 75 

tiles, to, 65 

tin, to, 86 

windows, to, 67 
Cleaning, with fullers' earth, 334 

with scouring-balls, 335 

precautions to be taken in, 339 
Clinkers, to remove, 147 
Clock, kitchen, 48 
Closet, for preserves, 10 

for wraps, etc., 16 
Closets, earth, 25 

for brooms, brushes, and cleaning 
appliances, 16 

location of, 11 

woods used in, 20 
Cloth of gold, 214 
Clothes (see Laundry\ 98 

rack. 340 
Clothing, frame for, 340 
Cloths, for polishing floors, how to 
wash, 277 

polishing, receptacles for, 277 
Coal, anthracite, 134 

anthracite, how to manage, 141 

bituminous, 134, 135, 146 

putting in cellar, 133 

red ash, 135 

size of, 135 

slaty deposit in, 135 

white ash, 135 
Cockroaches, 343 



Cocoa stains, 307 
Coffee, 257 

pot, care of, 88 
stains. 307 
Cold-air box, 137 
location of, 138 

importance of, and why supply of 
air should be pure, 138 
Collar, coat, to clean, 337 
Color, for curtains (see Laundry), 

110 
Colored cotton articles (see 

Laundry), 106 
Colors, ground in oil, 323 

ground in powder, 323 
Comb-grain (see Woods), 264 
Combs and brushes, to clean, 

337 
Combustion, how to regulate, in 
range, 144 
spontaneous, 298 
Connective tissue, 173, 238 
Cooking of albuminous substances, 
principles underlying the, 234 
effect on vegetables of over-cook- 

inp,249 
effect on lean meat, 236 
effect of, in closed vessels, 257 
fats, 229 
fish, 240 
fruits, 227 
importance of proper method of, 

225 
meats, 238 
necessity of an outlet for escape 

of gases in, 238 
of starchy foods, principles under- 
lying the, 242 
.vegetables, 241, 246 
vegetables, a few definite rules 

for, 249 
vegetables, secret of success in, 
250 
Copper, effect of acid on, 68 
effect of dampness on, 70 
to clean, 69 
selection of cleaning substances 

for, 69 
utensils, 54 



396 



INDEX 



Copperas, 97 
Com, 176, 259 
Corned meats, 186 
Cctton-seed oil, 296 
Cracked surfaces on wood fin* 

ishes, to restore, 73 
Cracklings, 214 
Cucumbers, 257 
Curtains, washing of, 110 



Daily routine of household 
work, 61 

Dampers, effect of opening, 143 

how managed, 142 

smoke. 143 

use of, 142 
Darning, aids in, 338 
Dents in wood, method of remov- 
ing, 282 
Deodorizing cooking utensils, 

87 
Dextrine, 224 225, 241 
Digestion, conditions favorable 
and unfavorable to, 227 

brief outline of process of, 226 

of starch, 227 
Dining-room, 11 

care of, 75 

furnishing, 37 
Dinner, giving, fashion in, 156 

proper succession of courses in a, 
156 

a successful, 155 

table, 152 
Dishes, cause of breakage, 14 

preparation for washing, 163 

rules for the waitress to observe 
in washing, 165 
Division of income, 350 
Doors, care of outside, 73 

location of, 11 
Doughs, 253, 255 
Drafts, 137 

what they are, 143 
Drainage and earth-closets in coun- 
try houses, 25 

of cellar, 6 
Draining-shelves, 14 



Drains, construction of, for liquid 

refuse, 26 
Draperies, 64 
Dressers, kitchen, illustration of, 

17,18 
Dry and cracked surfaces on 

wood finishes, to restore, 73 
Dryingioosely woven woolen 

articles, 104 
Duck, to carve, 217 
Dust-mop (see Yacht-mop), "HJl, 

Earth, as a purifier, 26, 28 
closets, 26 
fullers', 307, 334 
fullers', to clean with, 334 
fullers', to make scouring-balls 
with, 335 
Earthenware, 50, 51 
tendency to absorb fats, 54 
yellow, 54 
Economies, suggestions as to lit* 

tie, 260 
Economy In food, the true, 258 
Effect of cooking in ventilated 
and unventilated vessels, 
257 
Egg-plant, 259 

Eggs, 198, 199, 226, 235, 236, 255, 
256,259 
how and why they are beaten, 255, 

256 
illustration of effect of tempera- 
ture on, 236 
to test, 199 
Enameled cloth for tables and 
shelves, 79 
ware, 49 

ware, grades of, 53 
ware, how made, 53 
ware, qualities necessary in, 53 
Encaustic No. 1, 332 
No. 2, 333 

No. 2 for removing ink stains from 
wood finishes, ^)4 
Entertaining, ceremonious, 154 
Ether, 307 
Exercise, effect on muscles, 173 



INDEX 



397 



Fads and common sense in 

foods, 260 
Fasciculi, 173 

Fats, 229-234, 338 

belong to the hydrocarbon group, 
224 

burning-point of, 231 

care of, 232 

effect of cooking on, 230 

how to clarify, 233 

how to determine temperature of, 
232 

how to use various kitchen, 233 

importance of temperature at 
which they are cooked, 229 

melting-point of, 348 

temperature of, for frying, 232 
Felt pads for furniture, 278 

for polishing, 285 

to fasten on furniture, 278 
Fibers, muscular, 173 

effect of different degrees of heat 
on, 173 

structure of, 173 

ultimate, 173 
Fibrils, 173 
Fibrin, 236 

of the blood, coagulation of, 235 
Filler, for ash, 318 

for dark wood, 317 

for light wood, 317 

for walnut, 318 
Fillers for wood, what they are 

and whv used, 317 
Finish of walls, woodwork, 

and ceiling, 4 
Finishes, wood, treatment of, 279, 

281 
Fire, anthracite coal, how to man- 
age, 141 

depth of bed of coal, 146 

furnace, care of, 136 

grate, 146 

how to care for, when ironing, 120 

how to manage dampers and 
checks, 142 

how checks work, 144 

range, to make, 141 

to regulate combustion of, 144 



to regulate temperature, 145 

to prevent burning to a white 
heat, 145 

wood, to prepare for broiling, 146 
Fireplaces, 64 

Fish, general remarks on serving 
(see Carving), 219 

general principles underlying cook- 
ing of, 240 

quality, indications of, in (see Mar- 
keting), 197 
Flannels (see Laundry), 202 
Flat-irons, how to clean, 123 

how to remove rust from, 124 
Flavors and odors, developed by 
heat, 257 

reason why all should not be re- 
tained, 257 
Flesh -formers, 224 
Floor-coverings, some points on 

laying. 312 
Floors, advice of an expert in re- 
gard to, 265 

appliances used in polishing, 275 

cellar, 1, 7 

cleaning with petroleum, 274 

cloths for cleaning, how to wash, 
277 

composition of fillers, and object 
of, 317 

cracks in, to fill, 318 

daily care of, 270 

effect of water on, 269 

felt pads on furniture to protect 
polished, 278 

finishing, filling, and staining of, 
316 

general directions for oiling, 273 

hard-wood, 268 

how to apply the filler to, 316 

how to prepare fillers for, 317 

how to oil piazza, 278 

how to remove old paint and var- 
nish from, 318 

how to rub down to absolute 
smoothness, 316 

importance of condition of, 322 

kitchen, hall, pantry, and stairs, 14 

laying and finishing, 19, 266 



398 



INDEX 



linoleam, care of, 82 
materials for care of, 338 
method of applying wax to, 271 
necesBity for proper treatment of, 

270 
oiled, in kitchen and pantry, care 

of, 80 
painted or vamiflhed, care of, 81 
polished, 267 

removal of grease-spots from, 311 
rift wood in, 19 

sanitary yalue of polished, 268 
stained^ to wax, 273 
stains, to remove, from, 271 
to clean and wax at the same time, 

272 
waxed, treatment of, 270 
waxing, preparing for, 271 
weekly care of, ^0 
white board, care of, 82 
Flour, how to test, 200 
Flues of range, keeping clean, 140 

ventilating, in kitchen, 14 
Food, general rale for certain 

methods of cooking vegetables, 

250 
materials, manipulation of, 252 
materials, market and nutritive 

value of, 223 
tables to aid in arranging daily 

menus, 259 
vegetable fruits and flowers, 241 
vegetables containing little or no 

starch, table of, 259 
Foods, albumin in, 255 
albumin, coagulation of, in, 234 
albumin in relation to gastric 

juice, 227 
albuminous, effect of temperature 

on, 235 
albuminous matter in, tendency to 

fermentation and putrefaction 

of, 236 
albuminous substances in lean 

meat, 235 
albuminous substances, principles 

underlying the cooking of, ^4 
apples, 198 
apricots, 228 



batters, 253 

batters, effect of varied tempera- 
tures on, 255 

batters, general rules for baking, 
255 

beans, 245, 259 

beets, 259 

blackberries, 228 

braizing, 240 

bread, ideal, 244 

brief outline of process of diges- 
tion, 226 

broiling, 240 

broiling, boiling, roasting, albumi- 
nous, 238 

burning-point of fats, 231 

butter, 231 

butter, how to clarify, 231 

butter, to sweeten rancid, 234 

carbohydrates, 224 

carbon compounds, 223, 224 

cereals, 241, 243, 244, 252, 259 

com, 243 

com, Indian, 243 

cora-starch, 243 

cranberries, 228 

currants, 22S 

digestion, conditions favorable and 
unfavorable for, 227, 243 

digestion of starch, 227 

doughs, effect of varied tempera- 
ture on, 255 

doughs, general mie for baking, 
255 

drippings, 231 

economy in, 258 

effect of cooking in closed or in 
ventilated vessels, 257 

effect on digestion of manner of 
serving and eating, 225 

eggs, 198, 235, 236 

eggs, how to test, 199 

oggs, when used to thicken and not 
to lighten an article, 256 

fads and common sense, 260 

fats, 229 

fats, burning-point of some, 231 

fats, effect of water on tempera- 
ture of, 230 



INDEX 



399 



fats, importance of temperature at 
which they are cooked, 229 

flavors of coffee and soups, lost by 
lowered temperature, 257 

flavors and odors, developed by 
heat, 256, 257 

flour, how to test, 200 

for growth and repair, table of, 259 

fruits, dried, in cooking, proportion 
of water to, 229 

fruits, fresh, effect of, on digestive 
organs, 228 

fruits, method of cooking dried, 228 

fruits, nutritive value of, 227 

fruits, a few points in regard to, 
228 

fruits, quantity of sugar, and its 
effect on, 228 

frying, 240 

gooseberries, 228 

goose-grease, 231 

hydrocarbons, 224 

lard, 231 

legumes, their nutritive value, 245 

legumes, method of cooking, 245 

mineral, 225 

nitrogenous compounds, 223 

nitrogenous substances, 224 

object of, 222, 295 

olive-oil, 231 

peaches, 228 

pears, 228 

pease, 245, 247 

potatoes, boiled, 251 

principles, general division of, 223 

proper combination of food prin- 
ciples, 258 

prunes, 229 

quinces, 228 

raspberries, 228 

receptacles for, 54 

rice, boiled, 251 

starch, 241 

starch, effect of cooking on, 242 

starch, digestibility of, 243 

starch, what is necessary in cook- 
ing it, 242 

stewing, 240 

strawberries, 228 



suggestions as to little economies 

in, 260 
that produce heat and force, table 

of, 259 
tubers, 241 

vegetables, to blanch, 247 
vegetables, fresh, necessary con- 
dition before cooking, 249 
vegetables, fresh, care not to over- 

or under-cook, 249 
vegetables, green, 246 
vegetables, general rule for certain 

methods of cooking, 250 
vegetables, fresh, how the French 

cook them, 246 
vegetables, a plea for more atten- 
tion to their preparation, 249 
vegetables, boiled potatoes, 251 
vegetables, sautered, 247 
vegetable substances, principles 

underlying the cooking of, 241 
vegetables that do not contain 

starch, 241 
vegetables, tuberous, 246 
vegetables, varying composition of, 

241 
Foundation of house, 4, 5 
Frames, picture, to mend, 326 
for dress-waists and men's clothing, 

340 
Freezing, effect of, on meat, 192 
Fruit, 227-229 
knives, 158 
stains, to remove, with fumes of 

sulphur, 306 
when best, and how preserved, 228 
Frying, 240 
Fuel and fires, 133 
kinds of, 134 
placing of bins for, 9 
preparation of cellar for coal, 133 
time to buy, 133 
wood, 135 
Fullers' earth, 311, 334 
to clean with, 335 
scouring-balls of, 335 
Furnace, cleaning of flues and 

pipes, 136 
construction of, 136 



400 



INDEX 



fire in cold weather, 137 

fire, renewing the, 137 

fire-pot, 136 

fresh air necessary for, 138 

method of starting fire in, 136 
Furnishing the bedroom, 40 

the dining-room, 37 

essentials in, 35 

the hall, 36 

the kitchen, 46 

the laundry, 122 

the library, 37 

the living-room, 38 

the parlor, 39 
Furniture, carvings, to clean, 286 

** cleaner and polisher," receipt for, 
332 

finish, faded or cracked, on, to re- 
store, 286 

leather, to clean, 65 

materials for care of, 333 

upholstered, to clean, 65 

varnished surfaces of, to clean, 286 

wax for polishing, 333 

waxed surfaces of, to clean, 287 



Qaivanized iron, 55 
Game and poultry, 195 
Qame-birds, 195 
Garbage, 91 

method of disposing of, 92 
Qarnisliing, 205 

Qas, carbonic-acid, proportion of, in 

air, 57 
carbonic-acid, source of, 253 
coal, from stove or furnace, 139 
drop-light, care of, 126 
fixtures, care of, 127 
laws of expansion and contraction, 

57 
leaks in pipes, 127 
meters and stopcocks, 127 
noxious, conditions which cause 

formation of, 6 
nitrogen, proportion in air, 57 
oxygen, proportion in air, 57 
precautions to be taken before 

turning on, 2 



range, 47 

sewer, 24 
Qas-burners and keys, care of, 

126 
Gasolene, 294 
Gastric Juice, 226, 227 
Georgia pine, 263 
Glass, care of, 76 

cut, care of, 77 

cut, use of sawdust for, 77 

danger of scratches on, 77 
Glue, how to make, 326 
Gluing, conditions necessary for 
success in, 325 

furniture and other articles, 325 
Granite-ware, 49, 51, 53 
Grate fires, 146 
Grease, how to prevent spreading 
on a fabric, ^8 

in sink-pipes, 94 

to remove from marble, 66 

to remove from matting, 67 

spots, several methods of remov- 
ing, 307 

spots, to remove from wood, 311 

wheel, to remove stains of, 309 
Green stains, 305 
Groceries, 200 

care of, 200 
Guests, selection of, 155 

Ham, to carve, 211 

Ham fat, 233 

Hanging clothes out to dry, 117 

Heart-wood, 262 

Heat, circulation of, in oven, 142, 143 
effects of different degrees on 

muscular fiber, 173 
and force, table of foods that will 

produce, 159 
inflammable substances, how to, 

338 
white, to prevent coals from burn- 
ing up to, 145 
Hip, or thick sirloin, 179 
Hip-bone, 175, 176 
Home, some of the essentials of, 

1,9 
Hostess, 155 



INDEX 



401 



House, colors in interior finish of, 
20 

general plan of the, 10 

interior finish of the, 20 

outline of what is needed in the, 
10 

selecting the, 1 

situation and foundation of the, 
1,5 

skeleton and circulatory system 
of, 4 

some suggestions i^or people build- 
ing their own, 3 
Household accounts, 350 

refuse, 91 

work, daily routine of, 61 
Hydrocarbons, 224 

Income, division of, 350 
Inflammable substances, how 

to heat, 338 
Ink stains, 301-304, 311 
Insects and vermin, 341 
Interior finish, yearly polishing 

of, 74 
Iodine stains, 305 
Iron, how to remove rust from, 124 

galvanized, 55 
Ironing, arrangement of appliances 
for, 120 

folding clothes for the, 118 

folding clothes after the, 122 

how to care for fire when, 120 

how table-linen should be ironed, 
121 

motion of the iron in, 121 

preparing for, 119 

what to do till the irons are hot, 124 
Iron-rust, 90, 306 
Irons, how to clean, 123 

why very hot for raw starch, 116 
Ironware, 49 

advantages of, 54 

to remove rust from, 90 
Ivory-handled knives, care of, 
76 

Javelle water, how to make, 330 
in the laundry, 99, 304 

26 



Kerosene, 73, 132, 291, 292 

washing with, 109 
Keys loose in gas fixtures, 126 
Kidneys, 175, 193 
Kitchen, furnishing of, 46 

utensils, care of, 79, 82 

varnished and oiled woodwork in, 
care of, 80 
Kitchen and pantries, care of, 79 

plan of, 12 
Knives, care of handles, 76 

carving, how to sharpen, 204 

fruit, 151 

to polish steel, 78 

to remove spots from ivory handles, 
76 

to remove rust from, 79 

Lamb (see Marketing and Carving), 
190,209 

Lamp-burners, care of, 129 

Lamp-chimneys, cleaning of, 129 

Lamps, 127 
cleaning, method of, 129 
consideration in purchasing, 128 
daily care of, 129 
essentials of a clear light, 128 
how to light and extinguish, 129 
how to regulate light, 131 
necessary appliances for cleaning, 

129 
student, 127 

student, bubbles of air in, 130 
what causes explosions in, 132 
when carrying from place to place, 
129 

Lamp-wicks, 128 

Lard, melting-point of, 348 

Laundry, 98 
blankets, when and how to wash, 

105 
blankets, how to remove spots 

from, 105 
blankets, best way to press, 106 
care of, 123 
chemicals used in, 98 
color for curtains, 110 
colored cotton articles, to launder, 
106 



402 INDEX 

colored cotton articles, how to wash starch, turpentine in, 102 

with starch, 107 starching, some points on. Ill 
curtains, how to launder, 110 stiffening with gelatin, 113 
embroideries and colored silks, how summary of preparation for wash- 
to launder, 109 ing, 101 
flannels, 102 summary of method of washing 
flannels, colored, how to wash, 104 flannels, 104 
flannels, method of washing, 103 water, bluing, to prepare, 102 
folding clothes for ironing, 118 water, to prepare, for soaking the 
folding clothes after ironing, 122 clothes, 100 
hanging clothes out to dry, 117 wringer, a few words about, 122 
how the clothes should be washed, Lawns, protection of, when putting 

100 in coal, 134 
how the clothes should be scalded, Lease of house, 2 

101 Leather furniture, 65 
importance of rinsing, 101 Leg of mutton, time of cooking, 
laundress, importance of caring for 239 

health of the, 124 Legumes, 241, 244, 245 

mending before washing, 100 Lentils, 259 

necessary furniture for, 122 Lettuce, 247, 250 

necessity for absolute cleanliness Library, 11 

in, 123 furnishing the, 37 

silk undergarments, how to laun- Lighting appliances, care of, 127 

der, 108 oil-lamps, 127 

sorting the clothes for washing, some facts in regard to petroleum 

100 131 

starch, boiled, 113 to test safety of oil, 132- 

starch, boiled, how it should be Lime and oil, for removing rust from 

used, 116 iron and steel, 79, 89 

starch, boiled. No. 1, very stiff, 113 and potash, how to prepare for 

starch, boiled. No. 2, moderately floors, 319 

stiff, 114 and sal-soda, how to prepare for 

starch, boiled. No. 3, less stiff, 114 floors, 319 . 

starch, boiled, No. 4, not very stiff, Lime-water, how to make, 329 

suitable for skirts and dresses, used as an anti-acid tonic, 329 

114 to test purity of the air of a room 

starch, boiled, No. 5, very thin, for with, 329 

table-linen, etc., 114 and oil for bums, 329 

starch, bluing in, 115 to soften hard water with, 329 

starch, borax in, 112 for whitening boards on which a 

starch, gum-arabic, 112 strong alkali has been used, 329 

starch, method of making, 114 Linoleum, 79, 315 

starch, method of making, for Linseed-oil, 73, 180, 273, 278, 290, 

washing colored goods, 107 291 

starch, raw, 112 Liquid soda, how to make and uae^ 

starch, raw, rule for making, 115 330 

starch, reasons for ironing raw- stains, 321 

starched articles very damp, 115 Locust-wood, 263 

starch, rice, 112 Luncheon-table, 152 



INDEX 



403 



Mahogany, 265 

color, to produce on wood, 181 
stain, dark, 323 
stain, light, 324 
Manipulation of food mate- 
rials, 252 
Marble, action of acids on, 65 
difficulty of removing stains from, 

66 
how to neutralize acids when 

spilled on, 65 
how to remove acid or grease-spots 

from, 66 
Marbles, small, to clean, 328 
Marketing, aim of chapter on, 168 
advantages to the carver of a 

study of Figs. 14, 15, and 16, 

176 
aitchbone, 176. 178 
anatomy of animals, importance 

of a knowledge of, 169 
animals, minor parts of, 192 
animals, muscular flesh of, 191 
apples, 198 

ball-and-socket joint, 176 
beef, aitchbone, 176, 178 
beef, bowler piece, 178 
beef, brisket, 17^ 183 
beef, brisket, thick end of, 178, 

183, 186 
beef, carcass, how divided, 172 
beef, Chicago dressed, 170 
beef, chuck ribs, 178, 180 
beef, corned, 176, 185, 186 
beef, cross-rib piece, 178, 180 
beef, cutting. New York method of, 

182 
beef, explanation of Fig. 10, 175 
beef, flat-bone steak, 176 
beef, flank, 181 
beef, ^llet, 185 
beef, fillet-false, 185 
beef, fore quarter, 172 
beef, hind quarter, 172 
beef, indications of good, 172 
beef, indications of poor, 172 
beef, leg of, 183 
beef, loin of, 77 
beef, navel piece, 182, 183 



beef, ox, skeleton, 174 

beef, plate piece, 182, 186 

beef, portions suitable for roasting 
and broiling, 179 

beef, portions suitable for boiling, 
braizing, stewing, alamode, and 
also cheap roasts and steaks, 
180 

beef, portions suitable for slow 
cooking, such as stewing, braiz- 
ing, boiling, soups, etc., 181 

beef, porterhouse, 176, 179, 184 

beef, porterhouse steak, 176, 183 

beef, porterhouse or loin, bones of, 
174 

beef, porterhouse or loin, direction 
of muscles, in Fig. 14, 177 

beef, porterhouse or loin, Fig. 18, 
182 

beef, first quality, includes portions 
suitable for roasting and broil- 
ing, 179 / 

beef, second quality, includes por- 
tions suitable for boiling, braiz- 
ing, stewing, alamode, and also 
cheap roasts and steaks, 180 

beef, third quality, includes por- 
tions suitable for slow cooking, 
such as braizing, boiling, stew- 
ing, soups, etc., 181 

beef, quality of, depends on age 
and food, 170, 171 

beef, rattle-ran, 182 

beef, ribs, cross-rib piece, 172, 178, 
180 182 

beef, ribs, 175, 180, 182, 185 

beef, ribs, location of bones in, Fig. 
10, 174 

beef, ribs, direction in which mus- 
cles run. Fig. 14, 177 

beef, ribs, rolled, 180 

beef, round, 180 

beef, rump, 176 

beef, rump piece, 176, 186 

beef, rump, back of, 181 

beef, shin, 183 

beef, shoulder, 172, 183 

beef, shoulder-blade, 178 

beef, shoulder clod, 178 



404 



INDEX 



beefy side, New York method of 

cutting, 182 
beef, Bide, interior of, 169, 181 
beef, side, outline of, 169, 182 
beef, sirloin, 176, 206 
beef, sirloin steak, how cut in 

New York, 184 
beef, sirloin, thick, or hip, 174, 176, 

179, 184 
beef, sirloin, first, second, third 

cuts of, 174, 179 
beef, sirloin, top of, 184 
beef, skeleton of, showing location 

of bones in various cuts, 174 
beef, skirt of, 182 
beef, stall-fed, 171 
beef, sternum, 178 
beef, tenderioin of, 176, 179, 181, 

184,185 
beef, why cut into more joints than 

any otiier animal, 172 
beefsteak, flat-bone, 176, 183, 184, 

185 
beefsteak, Hamburg, 180, 183 
beefsteak, hip-bone, 176, 183, 

184 
beefsteak, porterhouse, 176, 179, 

183,184 
beefsteak, rib, 183 
beefsteak, round, 180, 183 
beefsteak, round-bone, 176, 183, 

184, 185 
beefsteak, short, 179, 183 
beefsteak, shoulder, 183 
beefsteak, sirloin, Fig. 19, 176, 

179, 183, 184 
beefsteak, tenderloin, 184 
beefsteaks, 183 
beefsteaks, cross-ribs, 183 
beefsteaks, Delmonico, 183, 184 
beefsteaks, entre-edtey 183, 185 
butchers' meat, why the house- 
keeper snould have a clear 

knowledge of, 168 
butter, 199 
danger of attempting to learn too 

much at once, 169 
ducks, 196 
effect of the age, the breed, and 



the feeding of the animal on the 

quality of the meat, 171 
effect of exercise on meat, 170, 171, 

173 
effect of freezing on meat, 192 
eggs, 198 
eggs, to test, 199 
explanation of Fig. 10 (skeleton of 

ox), 174, 175, 179, 183 
explanation of Figs. 15 and 16, 

176, 179 
explanation of Fig. 14, 177-181 
explanation of Fig. 17, 179, 180 
explanation of Fig. 18, 179, 180, 

182 
explanation of Fig. 19 (method of 

cutting sirloin steaks), 184 
explanation of Fig. 20, 184 
explanation of Fig. 21, 185 
explanation of Fig. 22, 185 
explanation of Fig. 23, 185 
explanation of Fig. 24, 188, 189 
fasciculi, 173 
feet, the, of animals, 192 
fiber, muscular, 173 
fibrils, 173 
fish, 197 
fore quarter of an animal, why it 

is less tender than the hind, 178 
fore quarter of beef, mutton, lamb, 

etc., how to learn position of 

muscles, 178 
game, 195 
groceries, 200 
heads, 193 
hearts, 193 
hip-bone, 176 
kidneys, 175, 192 
lamb, 190 

lamb, best age for, 190 
lamb, how divided, 190 
liver, 193 

mature and immature animals, dif- 
ference in quality of flesh of, 

170, 191 
meats, effect of humid atmosphere 

on, 192 
method of studying marketing, 169 
milk, 199 



INDEX 



405 



minor parts of the animal, what 
they are, and the precautions to 
be taken in purchasing them, 
192 

muscles, advantage to marketer 
and carver of a knowledge of 
location of, 178 

muscles, importance of cutting 
across the grain of, 175 

muscles in fore quarter of an ani- 
mal, how to learn direction of, 
178 

muscles in hind quarter of an ani- 
mal, how to learn direction of, 
176 

muscles, structure of, 173 

muscles, to study arrangement and 
location of. Fig. 14, 178 

muscular covering of skeleton, 178 

muscular fiber, arrangement in 
bundles, 173 

muscular fiber, effect of different 
degrees of heat on, 173 

muscular fiber, structure of, 173 

muscular fibers, 172 

muscular flesh of animals, effect of 
freezing on, 192 

muscular flesh of animals, effect 
of rigor mortis on, 191 

muscular flesh of animals, some 
characteristics of, 191 

muscular system, 172 

muscular system, illustration of, 
177 

mutton, 187 

mutton, best age for, 188 

mutton, breast, 190 

mutton chops, 188 

mutton chops, French, 188 

mutton cutleto, 190 

mutton, fore quarter of, 189, 209 

mutton, haunch of, 188, 209 

mutton, indications of good, 188 

mutton, leg of, 189, 190 

mutton, loin of, 190 

mutton, must be well ripened, 188 

mutton, neck of, 189 

mutton, rack of, 188 

mutton, ribs, 190 



mutton, saddle of, 188, 208 

mutton, shoulder of, 189, 209 

mutton, various cuts of, 188 

necessity for frequent visits to the 
market, 168 

ox, 170 

pork, 190 

pork, indications of good, 191 

pork, indications of poor, 191 

pork, most desirable parts for 
roasting and chops, 190 

pork, necessity for care in select- 
ing, 191 

pork, necessity for thorough cook- 
ing, 191 

poultry, 195 

poultry, drawn and undrawn, 195 

poultry, dry-picked and scalded, 
196 

poultry, tests of good, 196 

poultry, kinds for various methods 
of cooking, 196* 

qualities, division of beef into vari- 
ous, 179 

quality, first, 179 

quality, second, 180 

quality, third, 181 

rigor mortis, 191 

skeleton, of ox, 174 

sternum, 178 

supplies, general, purchase and care 
of, 197 

sweetbreads, 194 

texture, color, and odor of meats 
and fish, one should becomefamil- 
iar with, 169 

tongue, 193 

tripe, 193 

ultimate fiber, 173 

veal, 186 

veal, age and feeding, 186 

veal, breast of, 187 

veal chops, 187 

veal cutlets, 187 

veal, flank of, 187 

veal, fillet of, 187 

veal, how the calf is divided, 186 

veal, how the ^ench produce 
prime, 186 



406 



INDEX 



veal, indications of good, 186 
veal, knuckle of, 187 
veal, leg of, 187 
veal, loin of, 187 
veal, piece for fricandean, 187 
veal, shoulder of, 187 
vegetables, green, 198 
vegetables, winter, 198 
whirl-bone, 176 
Mastication, necessity for, 226 
Materials, food, manipalation of, 
252 
nsed in building, 17 
Matting, mats of Canton and Japa- 
nese, 315 
to clean, 67 
to lay, 314 

to remove grease or oil from, 67 
to remove moisture from, 67 
Mattresses, coverings for, 45 
kinds of, 42 

protection and care of, 45 
Meals, 162-164 
Meats, 239 
to boil, broil, braize, roast, stew, 
and fry, 239, 240 
Melting-point, to judge purity of 

some fats bv, 348 
Melting-points of some metals 

and alloys, 347 
Menus, tables of food substances 
to help in arranging the daily, 
259 
Metals, effect of temperature on 
different, 49 
melting-points of some, 347 
of plumbing, strong acids or alkalis 
on the, 339 
Mice, 346 

Mildew stains, 309 
Milk, 199, 200. 234, 258, 259 
illustrations of effect of tempera- 
ture on, 235 
Mineral foods, 225 
Mistress, personality of, 150 

and maid, 161 
Moisture, warmth and dirt favor- 
able to the development of bac- 
teria, 350 



changed to steam expands in great 
heat, and helps to lighten doughs 
and batters, 253 

Mop, dust (see Yaeht-mop), 277 

Mosquitos, 346 

Moths, 345 

Muriatic acid, 304 

Naphtha, 132, 290, 293 
danger from, and how it can be 

used safely, 344 
used to destroy insects and vermin, 

342 
used to exterminate bedbugs, 343 
Neutralize, acid stains, how to, 301 
the action of alkalis, how to, 300 
when chemicals are used to remove 
stains, how to, 300 
Neutralizing si>ots on boards 
that have been cleaned with 
oxalic acid, before staining with 
an alkali, 320 
Nitric acid, 34 

Nitrogenous compounds, 223 
Nitrogenous substances, 224 
Nuts, 259 

Oak, 265 

stain, 324 

stain, antique, 323, 324 

stain, very light, 324 

to color wood, 281 
Ocher, yellow, 281 
Odors and flavors, 256, 257 

foods that absorb them readily, 
200 
Oil-cloth, 79, 315 
Oiling floors, general directions for, 
273 

painted floors, linoleum, etc., 274 

piazza floors, 278 

wood, secret of success in, 274 
Oils, an important element in home 
economics, 288 

benzene, 293 

benzole, 294 

castor, 297 

classes of, 288 

cleaning, 292 



INDEX 



407 



jod-liver, 297 

cotton-seed, 296 

cotton-seed, melting-point of, 348 

drying and non-drying, 290 

effect of alcohol on, 291 

essential qualities in lubricating, 
292 

fat and essential, 289 

fixed and volatile, 289 

gasolene, 294 
. kerosene, 73, 132, 291, 292 

kerosene, to test safety of, 132 

kerosene, used to dissolve gummy 
substances, 292 

kerosene, washing with, 109 

knowledge of their action and ap- 
plication necessary, 288 

linseed, boiled, 73, 290 

linseed, cold-drawn, 290 

lubricating, 291 

minerals mixed with fixed, to re- 
tard spontaneous combustion, 
299 

naphtha, 293 

non-drying, effect of oxygen on, 
295 

olive, 295 

olive, melting-point of, 348 

olive, when chilled to the freezing- 
point, 296 

paraffin, 291 

petroleum, danger from benzin in, 
132 

petroleum, some facts in regard to, 
131 

plaster casts, to, 328 

preparations of, for furniture, 73, 
286 

preservative of wood, a, 278 

some characteristics of cleaning, 
292 

spirits of turpentine, 293 

their use and behavior, 288 

used to neutralize alkalis and alco- 
hol, 70 

when absorbed by porous sub- 
stances, spontaneous combustion 
of, 298 
Outbuildings, 93 



Oven, how to regulate heat in, 145 

Ox, skeleton of, 174 

Oxalic acid, for ink stains, 311 

for water stains, 311 

solution of, 332 
Ox-gall, 307 
Oxygen, 57, 60, 295, 298 

Pads, how to make, for wood finish- 
ing, 283 
Paint and varnish, 70 
cleaning, 70 

how affected by wet alkalis, 70 
how to clean with whiting, 72 
or varnish, action of chemicals on, 

70 
stains, action of alcohol and tur- 
pentine on, 307 
to remove from wood, 318 
treatment of enamel finishes, 72 
what causes streaks on, 72 
when cleaning, avoid use of strong 
soaps or alkalis, 71 
Painting, conditions for durability, 
19 
exterior of houoe, 19 
Palates, 194 
Pancreatic gland, 194 

juice. 226 
Pantries, 15 
and china-closet, 14 
and china-closet, plan of, 15 
care of, 79 

care of varnished and oiled wood- 
work in, 80 
daily care of, 80 
setting in order, 163 
Pantry, cold, plan of, 16 
Paper, blotting, as an absorbent, 
307 
to prevent stain showing through, 

338 
wall, colors which give an air of 
warmth or coolness to a room, 
21 
Paraffin, 291 

oil, 73. 280, 283, 284, 286, 291 
Parsnips, 250, 259 
Pease, 245, 257, 259 



408 



INDEX 



Pennyroyal, to drive away ants, 

848 
Permansanate off potash, 33, 97, 

320 
Petroleum, cleaning floors with, 
274 

crade, on floors, 268 

danger of benzin in, 132 

in its natural state, 131 

in lamps, important points in care 
of, 132 

products of cmde, 132 

pnrifjring, 132 

to test safety of, 132 
Pewter, 49 

care of, 78 
Picture-frames, to mend, 326 
Pigments, 322 
PiUows, kind and size of, 43 
Pine, yellow, hard, soft, white, 

265 
Pipes, care in placing, 22 

chimney and furnace, 22 

corrogated roof, 19 

danger of lead, 30 

flushing the water-closet, 93 

hot-air, 23 

overflow, 24 

soU, 24 

steam, 22 
Pitch stains, 309 
Plan of work, to aid inexperienced 

housekeeper, 62 
Plaster casts, how to clean, 327 

how to mend, 326 

how to oil, 328 

how to stain, 327 

how to wax, 327 
Plates, hot and cold, 164 
Plumbing, 4, 23 

care of, 92 

chemicals used in disinfecting, 96, 
97 

danger from linty cloths and hair 
to, 97 

horizontal piping, 23 

how to disinfect, 92 

to prepare potash for, 95 

to prepare soda for, 95 



to protect pipes when using chem- 
icals, 95 
stationary basins, 93 
Points to decide, before begin- 
ning to stain a floor, 322 
Polish, brass trimmings on furni- 
ture, to, 328 
method of restoring, to wood, 284 
on woods, to clean and restore, 283 
Polisher and cleaner for furni- 
ture, receipt for, 332 
Polishing, yearly, of interior finish, 
74 
wax for woodwork, 333 
of woodwork, 74 

woods, how to make rubber for, 
283 
Poplar, 264 

Pork (see Marketing), 190 
Porterhouse roast and steak 

(see Marketing), 176 
Posts, how the ends may be pro- 
tected when sunk into the 
ground, 263 
Potash, 95, 318 

and soda, how to dissolve, 319 
Potassium permanganate, 96, 

320 
Potatoes, boiled, 251 
Poultry (see Marketing), 195 
Proteid, 224 

Putty, for cracks in floors, how to 
make, 318 

Quality in meats, 171 
Quartered woods, 264 

Rabbit, 195 

Rack, for clothing, 340 

for saucepan covers, 55 
Range, 46 

care of, 140 

coal, 140 

fire, how to manage anthracite 

coal, 141 
flues, keeping clear, 140 
gas, 47 
knowledge of drafts and checks of, 

140 



INDEX 



409 



necessary qualifications of a good, 
47 

polishing, 140 
Rats, 346 
Receptacles, for food, 54 

for polishing-cloths, 277 
Refrigerator, 55 

method of cleaning, 88 

situation of, 88 
Refuse, household, method of dis- 
posing of, 91, 92 
Registers, care of, 64 
Rice, boiled, 251, 259 
Rift (see Woods), 264 
Rigor mortis, 191 
Rinsing, importance of, 101 
Roasting meats, 239 
Room, cold, in cellar, 9 
Rooms, arrangement of, 11 
Routine, daily, of household work, 

61 
Rubber for polishing furni- 
ture, to make, 283 
Rugs, 64 

for hard-wood floors, 269 

to prevent corners from curling, 
338 
Running colors, to remove stains 

of, 305 
Rust, iron, stains, to remove, 306 

Sago, 2b9 
Saliva, 225, 226 
Salmon, 220 

Sal-soda, in the laundry, 99 

liquid, to make, 330 
Sashes, window, care of, 74 
Satinwood, 262 

Saucepans, rack for covers of, 55 
Scorch stains, 309 
Scouring.balls, of fullers' earth, 
335 

to clean with, 335 
Screen, for admitting air and ex- 
cluding dampness, 56 

for cellar windows, 91 
Service, table, 148 
Sewer-gas traps, 24 
Sheets, length of, 43 



Shellac, 280. 282 
Shoulder-blade, 175 
Shoulder clod, 178 

Sienna, burnt, 281 

raw, 318 
Silk undergarments, how to 

launder, 108 
Silver, cause of tarnishing, 76 

injurious treatment of, 76 

to clean, 76 
Simmering albuminous sub- 
stances, 238 
Sink, iron, to clean, 89 

iron, to remove rust from, 89 

iron, regular care of, 90 

kitchen, flushing, 93 

kitchen, strong solution of soda to 
remove grease from pipes of, 94 

kitchen, to prepare potash for, 95 

kitchen, trouble from liquid grease 
in pipes of, 94 

kitchen, weekly treatment of, 94 
Sirloin, cuts of, 176, 179 

thick or hip, 176 
Skeleton of an ox, 174, 175 
Slash (see Woods), 264 
Sleep, necessity of healthful, 40 
Soaking the clothes before 

washing, 99 
Soap, how to dissolve, 123 
Soft woods, 265 
Soil, dangers to health from, 6 
Solution of oxalic acid, 332 
Soot stains, 305 
Sorrel, 250 

Sorting the clothes for wash- 
ing, 100 
Spinach, 259 
Spinal column, 181 
Spine, 175 

Spirits of turpentine, 293 
Spontaneous combustion of 
oils, when absorbed by porous 
substances, 298 
Springs, bed, 45 

(see Water), 29, 30 
Spruce (see Woods), 264, 266 
Squash, 259 
Squirrels, 175 



410 



INDEX 



Stain, mahos^any, dark, 323 
mahogany, light, 324 
oak, 324 

oak, antique, 323, 324 
oak, very light, 324 
points on mixing, 322 
walnut, 323 
Staining, things important to re- 

member in, 325 
Staining floors, 322 
with ammonia, 321 
with chemicals, 320 
with nitric acid, 321 
with potash, 320 

with potassium permanganate, 320 
with sal-soda, 318 
Stains, acid, 308 
alcohol, on wood finish, 310 
alkali, 309 
amount required for one hundred 

square feet, 324 
black, on wood, 311 
blood, 301, 305 
cherry, 324 
chocolate, 307 
cocoa, 307 
coffee, 307 

first treatment of, 300 
fruit, 306 
grease, 305, 307 
grease, method of removing from 

delicate fabrics, 308 
grease, to prevent from spreading 

on fabric, 308 
grease, to remove by absorption 

and an alkali, 311 
grease, wheel, 309 
green, 305 

how color or shade should pre- 
dominate, 324 
ink, 301 

ink, to remove by absorption, 302 
ink, to remove with Javelle water, 

304 
ink, to remove with lemon, 302 
ink, to remove with lemon-juice 

and salt, 303 
ink, to remove with milk and water, 

302 



ink, to remove with muriatic acid, 

304 
ink, to remove with oxalic acid, 303 
ink, to remove with oxalic acid and 

cream of tartar, 303 
ink, to remove with red ink, 304 
ink, to remove with turpentine, 304 
ink, to remove from wood finishes, 

311 
iodine, 305 
iron rust, 306 
light, 323 
liquid, 321 
made from colors ground in oil, 

323 
made from colors in powder, 323 
on marble, difficulty of removing, 

66 
method of applying to floors, 321 
mildew, 309 
paint, 307 
pitch, 309 

removed before washing, 100 
roughness and stains made by 

heat on wood finishes, 310 
from running colors, 305 
scorch, 309 
soot, 3i05 
tar, 309 
tea, 307 

to prevent showing through white- 
wash and paper, 338 
value of chemicals when properly 

used in removing, 300 
varnish, 307 
vaseline, 305 

water, to remove from wood, 311 
wheel-grease, 309 
white, on wood finishes, 332 
wine, 307 
on wood, 310 
on wood finishes, 310 
for woods, 320 
Staircases, back and front, 12 
Starcfi, 227, 241-243 
bluing in, 115 

boiled, method of making, 114 
boiled. No. 1, very stiff, 113 
boiled, No. 2, moderately stiff, 114 



INDEX 



411 



boiled, No. 3, less stiff, 114 
boiled, No. 4, not very stiff, for 

dresses and skirts, 114 
boiled. No. 5, very thin, for table 

linen, etc., 114 
colored articles, when and how to, 

107 
digestion of, 227, 243 
gum-arabic, to make, 112 
raw, rules for making, 115 
rice, 112 

some points on. 111 
stiffening with gelatin, 113 
turpentine in, 112 
vegetables containing little or no, 
259 
Starched articles, how to secure 
the greatest ease in ironing, 114 
Starching, how boiled starch should 
be used, 116 
reason for ironing raw-starched 
articles very damp, 115 
Steel knives, to keep from rusting, 
79 
shavings, 341 
to remove rust from, 90 
wool, 341 
Stewing meats, 240 
Stoneware, 50, 52 

tendency to absorb fats, 54 
Stove, gas, 14 
heating, management of fire of, 

139 
showing direction of waves of heat 
when smoke-damper is opened, 
142 
showing direction of waves of heat 
when smoke-damper is closed, 
143 
Suet, melting-point of, 348 
Sugar, melting-point of, 348 
Sulphur fumes, to remove fruit 

stains, 306 
Summary, of method of airing 
house, 59 
of method of cleaning and restor- 
ing furniture, 285 
of method of cleaning and restor- 
ing polish on woods, 283 



of method of cleaning and waxing 

at the same time, 272 
of method of daily care of kitchen 

utensils, 84 
of daily program, 62 
of general directions for oiling 

floor, 274 
of method of preparing and stain- 
ing floor, 322 
of method of preparation for 

washing, 101 
of method of washing flannels, 104 
Sunny exposure for house, 2 
Sunshine for cellar, 8 
Supplies, general, purchasing and 

care of, 197 
Sweeping and dusting, general 

directions for, 63 
Sweetbreads, 194 
Synopsis of method of serving 
a dinner, 157 

Table, 49 

breakfast, the, 151 

dinner, the, 152 

etiquette, some points on, 158 

of foods that produce heat and 
force, 259 

of foods necessary for growth and 
repair, 259 

general arrangement of the, 150 

linen, how ironed, 121 

linen, quality of, 149 

linen, when it requires starch, 121 

luncheon, the, 152 

to protect from hot dishes, 166 

service, 148 

service, attitude at table, 158 

service, ceremonious entertaining, 
154 

service, ceremonious dinner, 156 

service, dishes should not be piled 
one upon another, 154 

service, evidences of true hospital- 
ity, 154 

service, how waitress should serve 
dishes, 153 

service, hostess with but one ser- 
vant, 155 



412 



INDEX 



service, importance of little things, 

160 
service, plates, hot and cold, 164 
service, position of knife, fork, and 
spoon when one has finished, 154 
service, pouring tea and coffee, 160 
service, ceremonious occasions, 149 
tea, 152 
of vegetables containing little or 

no starch, 259 
waiting on, 153 
ware, care of, 75 
ware, care of china, 77 
ware, danger of soap on gilt china, 

78 
ware, ghiss, 76 
ware, how the dish-towels should 

be held in wiping, 79 
ware, silver, 75 
Tapioca, 259 
Tar stains, 309 
Tea-kettle, care of, 87 
Tea-pot, care of, 88 
Tea stains, 307 

Temperature, when foods in a 
liquid bath or in air, difference 
in constancy of the, 240 
at which various fats bum, 231 
high, develops flavor in cereals, 

252 
of fats, how to determine, 232 
of the house, to regulate, 56 
of water, importance of, in washing 
flannels, 103 
Tendons, 178, 238 
Tests for impurities In water, 

33 
Tliermometers in tlie Icitclien, 

346 
Tfiymus gland, 194 
Tiles, how to clean and polish, 66 

in kitchen, 13 
Tin, block, 53 
cleaning with sand, 53 
utensils, how made, 52 
utensils, list of, 50 
ware, 49 
Tissue, connective, 173 
Tomatoes, 241 



Tongue, 193, 212 
Toothpicks, 161 

Traps, and their uses, 23 

sewer-«as, 24 
Trimmings, brass, on furniture, tu 

polish, 328 
Tripoli, 73, 283, 289 
Tul>ers, 241 
Turkey, 214 
Turnips, 250 
Turpentine, 7S, 271, 293, 307 

to remove ink stains, 304 

Ultimate fibers, 173 
Uml>er, 281 
Utensils, kitchen, 48 

Britannia, 49 

care of kitchen, 82 

coffee-pots, 88 

copper, 54 

to deodorize cooking, 87 

earthen, list of, 51 

earthenware, 50 

effect of acids, soda, and fats on 
iron, 85 

general rule for care of, 84 

granite or enameled ware, 49 

iron, 49 

iron, list of, 51 

iron, treatment of, 85 

methods of cleaning, 83 

miscellaneous, list of, 52 

necessary in the kitchen, 48 

pewter, 49 

qualifications necessary in cooking; 
49 

steel, 49 

stone, list of, 52 

stoneware, 50 

tea-kettle, cause of rust in, 87 

tea-pots, 88 

tin, list of, 50 

tinware, 49 

wooden, list of, 51 

wooden, proper care of, 86 

woodenware, 50 

Varnish, stained fioors, to, 321 
stains, 307 



INDEX 



413 



Vaseline stains, 305 
Veal (see Marketing), 186 
Vegetable substances, principles 

underlying cooking of, 241 
Vegetables, a plea for more atten- 
tion to preparation of» 249 
effects of over-cooking on, 249 
four general classes of, 241 
fresh, care not to over- or under- 
cook, 249 
fresh, necessary conditions before 

cooking, 249 
fruit and flowers, 241 
general rule for certain methods of 

cooking, 250 
green, 2& 

green, how to keep fresh, 198 
how to blanch, 247 
how the French cook them, 246 
leguminous, 245 
potatoes, boiled, 251 
rice, boiled, 251 
sautered, 247 

secret of success in cooking, 250 
tuberous, 246 
which contain little or no starch, 

259 
winter, 198 
Venison, 195, 212 
Ventilation, 55 
disease produced by breathing im- 
pure air, 58 
how to ventilate the kitchen, 59 
how to ventilate the sleeping 

rooms, 59 
ill effect of breathing air in badly 

ventilated rooms, 57 
importance of airing dining-room, 

157 
of soil-pipes, 24 

plan for daily airing of the house, 59 
symptoms which follow breathing 

impure air, 58 
under woodwork that comes near 
the soil, 19 
Vermin and insects, 341 
Vertebrae, 175 

Vestibule and entrance- Hal 1, 12 
Volatile oils, 293 



Waitress, announcing meals, 162 

duties of, 161 

how she shall serve dishes, 153 

mode of speaking to, 159 

personal appearance and dress of, 
161 

regular duties of, 162 

what she is responsible for, 165 
Wall-papers, 21 
Walls, advantage of thick, 3 

background for pictures, 21 

brushing, 63 

finish of, 4, 21 

of house, 1, 7 

of house to protect, when putting 
in coal, 133 

of kitchen, 13 
Walnut (see Wood), 265 

stain, 323 
Washing (see Laundry), 100 
Water, advantage of, in removing 
stains, 300 

bluing, for rinsing clothes, 102 

bugs, 342 

inorganic matter in, 29 

Javelle, how to make, 330 

Javelle, for stains, 304 

lime, how to make, 329 

lime, some uses of, 329 

methods of softening and purify- 
ing, 30 

necessity for pure, 27 

pipes, 1, 5, 30 

pollution of, 28, 29 

to purify by coagulation, 32 

removing temporary hardness, 32 

removing permanent hardness, 32 

seal, 24 

solvent power of, 28 

sources, of organic pollution in, 
29 

standard of purity, 27 

supply, 1, 27 

temporary and permanent hard- 
ness, 31 
Wax, for polishing furniture, 333 

method of applying to floors, 271 
Waxed floors, 270 
Waxing, preparing for, 271 



414 



INDEX 



Wells, depth of, 30 

situation of, 29 
Whalebone, how to revive and 

straighten, 338 
Wheel -s^rease stains, 309 
Whirl-bone, 176 
Whitewash, to prevent stains 

from showing through, 338 
Whiting, to clean paint with, 72 

and linseed-oil worked together 
to make putty, 318 
Wicks, lamp, 128 
Windows, 11 

cellar, when they should be opened, 
91 

how to wash, 67 

location of, 14 
Window-sashes, care of, 74 
Wine stains, 307 
Wood, action of resin on, 263 

ash, 264 

bass, 266 

bastard, 264 

cause of decay in, 18 

cedar, 263 

chestnut, 263 

used in closets, kind of, 20 

comb-grain, 264 

conditions destructive to, 263 

direction in which it shrinks, 264 

used in doors and sashes, quality 
of, 19 

fillers, 317 

finishes, alcoholic stains on, 310 

finishes, ink stains, to remove from, 
310 

finishes, roughness and stains made 
by heat on, to remove, 310 

used in floors, kind of, 19, 265 

Georgia pine, 263 

grease, to remove from, 311 

grease, to remove from, by absorp- 
tion and an alkali, 311 

hard pine, 265 

heart, 262 

how to protect, 263 



kinds having tendency to warp, 

264 
locust, 263 

log, brief description of, 262 
mahogany, 265 
manner of growth and cutting, 

264 
maple, 264, 265, 266 
oak, 265 

poplar, 263, 264, 266 
posts, how to protect, 263 
quartered, 264 
slash, 264 
soft, 265 
spruce, 264, 266 
stains on, 310 
walnut, 265 
white pine, 265 

Wrellow pine, 265 
oods, 262 

and polished floors, 262 

which do not require fillers, 318 
Woodwork, 279 

care of natural-wood finish, 73 

to clean and restore polish on, 283 

finishing of interior, 20 

in kitchen, 13 

list of colors used in restoring fin- 
ish and color, 281 

method of removing dents from, 
282 

to restore dry or cracked surfaces, 
73, 286 

to restore finish on, 279 

treatment of, finishes, 74 

ventilation between, and soil, 19 

Wrearly polishing of interior, 74 
ool, steel, 341 
Work, household, daily routine of, 

61 
Wringer, clothes, a few words 
about, 122 



Yacht-mop, 275 
Yellow octier, 281 



INDEX TO SUPPLEMENTARY CHAPTER 



Alkalies, in laundering woolens, Feathers, to cure, 367 

366 to deodorize and renovate, 366 
Ants, 382 Fly specks, to remove from gilt 
Asbestos and silicate of soda frames, etc., 356 

cement, 359 Fleas and mosquitoes, spray 

Bed-bus:8, 380 for, 384 

Beetles, two destructive carpet. Fleas, and remedies for them, 384 

379 Fumigate with sulphur, how 

Blue stains on fabrics, 365 to, 385 

Brass, cleaner, 353 Fullers' earth, to clean with, 372 

bean water for cleaning, 354 Furs, to clean light and dark, 367 

Brushes, hair, to clean, 357 putting away, 386 

Calcimined walls, to prepare for Garments, cloth, to mend on sew- 

paperinji:, 359 ing-machine, 375 

Carbolized mutton tallow, 376 Glass, bottles, to clean, 356 

Carpet, beetles, two destructive, window, to remove hard oil from, 

379 354 

grease spots on a, 373 window, to remove paint or var- 

soap for cleaning, 372 nish from, 354 

to restore color to worn places in Gloves, chamois, to clean, 369 

a, 372 Glue on fabrics or furniture, to re- 
Cements, for mending china and move, 355 

crockery, 359 Grass stains, 365 

Chamois gloves, to clean, 369 Grease spots on a carpet, 373 

China, cements for mending, 359 Griddle, soapstone, to treat, 355 

Cloth garments, to mend on sew- Hands, care of, 375 

ing machine, 374 preparation for softening and 

Cockroach, the domestic, 381 whitening, 376 

Colors, to set in cotton fabrics, House, how to prepare for closing, 

370 387 

to revive in colored fabrics, 370 Ink stains, to eradicate, 358 

to restore to worn places in car- Insects, concerning household, 377 

pets, 372 ants, 382 

Contracted muscles, caused by bed-bugs, 380 

burns, to cure, 377 carpet beetles, 379 

Crape, to renovate, 369 clothes moths, 378 

Crockery, cement for mending, cockroach, the domestic, 381 

359 fleas and remedies for them, 384 

Embroideries, silk, to launder, silver moths and silver fish, 381 

367 spray for fleas and mosquitoes. 
Enamel, stains from, 354 384 

Feather pillows, to wash, 366 spray for moths, 379 

415 



416 



INDEX 



Ironing of starched articles made 

easy, 368 
Kid, white, to dry-clean, 367 
L^ce, cleaning common, 362 
cleaning with gasoline or naph- 
tha, 364 
cleaning with absorbents, 364 
French method of cleaning fine, 

361 
methods of cleaning, 360 
starch for, 363 
tinting, 363 
washing fine, 362 
yellow spots on, to remove, 364 
Matting, to remove rust from, 

357 
Marble, stains from, 354 
Mending on a sewing machine, 

373 
Moths, spray for, 379 
Muscles, contracted, to cure, 377 
Mutton Tallow, carbolized, 

376 
Nickel, tarnished, to clean, 353 
Oil, hard, from window glass, 354 
Oil of Cedar, how to employ, 384 
Pointings, oil, to clean, 356 
Pillows, feather, to wash, 366 
Pongees, silk, to launder, 367 
Pounding in water pipes, 360 
Porcelain, stains from, 354 
Range, to keep clean and black, 

353 
Roach, the domestic, 381 
Room, how to seal, 385 
Rugs, oriental, to wash, 371 
Rust, to remove from matting, 
357 
on gas stoves, 355 
on nickel plate, 356 



Sewing machine, mending on, 

373 
Silver-moths and silver fish, 

381 
Silver, paste for cleaning, 355 
Soap for cleaning carpets, 372 
Spots on Garments, easy 

method of removing, 365 
Starch, gum-arabic, 363 

for lace, 363 
Stains, blue, from bluing, etc., 
365 
from enameled utensils, 355 
from marble, enamel and porce- 
lain, 354 
from garments, 365 
grass, 365 
glue, from fabrics and furniture, 

355 
grease from carpets, 373 
ink, to eradicate, 358 
peach, 365 

rust from gas stoves, 355 
rust from nickel plate, 356 
rust from matting, 357 
Sulphur, how to fumigate with, 

385 
Sunburn remedy, 376 
Tooth powder, 376 
Underwear, to mend with sewing 

machine, 374 
Walls, whitewashed or calcimined, 

to prepare for papering, 359 
Water, drinking, when it is neces- 
sary to boil, 360 
Woolens, effect of strong alka- 
lies on, 36 
W)utting away, 386 
rougtit iron, to clean, 353 



00, 

4, 






I3J 



C, 



g : 



