<^^ -^<l^ 0. 




^ 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/dietdieteticsOOgautuoft 



DIET AND DIETETICS 






DIET AND DIETETICS 

BY^Ar^AUTIER 

Professor at the Faculty of Medicine, Paris ; 
Metnber of the Institute 



EDITED AND TRANSLATED 

BY A. J. RICE-OXLEY, M.A. M.D. 




LONDON 

CONSTABLE AND COMPANY LTD. 



Published June 1906 



Preface of the Second Edition 

ALTHOUGH this Second Edition appears only a few months 
after the First, it has been much modified and, we think, 
improved. Numerous new chapters and documents have been 
added to complete the work : we will only indicate among the 
additions, the table of the food supply in Paris during the decen- 
nial period 1890-1900, the developments relating to the establish- 
ment of the coefficients of intestinal utilization of foods ; the 
experimental study of the requirements in energy of the man 
at rest or at work according to the last researches of Atwater ; 
the description of the mechanism of general nutrition, of the 
action of assimilatory and dissimilatory ferments and of the origin 
of vital energy. In quite another category of ideas will be found 
in this volume numerous details which we had not yet given on 
toxic foods ; the role of Salts in the system ; on the rules which 
enable us to fix the rate and the nature of alimentation according 
to climates, weight and height of the subjects. As to the diet 
of invalids, the chapters relating to arthritis, liver complaints, 
nervous diseases, etc., are modified and completed. I have 
given (p. 519) a somewhat long note setting forth the new project 
of alimentation for hospital patients proposed by the Medical 
Society of the hospital physicians and surgeons of Paris, etc. 
Thus this Second Edition is increased by more than 130 new 
pages. 

In striving to correct the imperfections and omissions of the 
First Edition I have endeavoured to respond to the confidence 
of those who have hoped to find in this work the solution of a 
number of questions upon which public health depends and 
which touch upon so many medical and sociological problems. 

Parts, May^ 1904. 



Contents 



PART I.— PRINCIPLES AND METHODS 

PAGE 

I Diet — Its Rdus — The Mechanism of AssiMXLATioisr . 1 
II Foods are Borrowed by Man from the Three 

Kingdoms — Type of Average Alimentation . 7 
III Normal Proportions of the Organic Fundamental 
Principles of Ordinary Alimentation — Methods 
of Experimental Study of the Nutritive Balance 
Sheet ........ 16 

rV Mineral Salts Necessary to the Human System — 

Principal Accessories, Useless or Harmful . 2& 
V Digestibility and Coefficient of Utilization of 
FijoDS — Assimilation of the Different Nutritive 
Principles ........ 37 

VI ExPENDITUTtE OF ENERGY IN THE CaSE OF A MaN AT 

Rest — Principles Relating to the Realization 
OF THE Energy Furnished by Foods — Value in 
Energy of the Alimentary Ration ... 49 
VII Experimental Calorimetry in a Living and 
FuNCTiONiNa Man — Atwater's Respiratory 
Chamber — Results Obtained .... 62 

Vni Alimentary Equivalents — Isodynamic Rations — 
Limits of Mutual Substitution of Alimentary 
Principles — Indispensable Minimum of Albu- 
minoids ........ 73 

IX Ration of Work compared with that of Main- 
tenance — ^The Yield of the Human Machine in 
Mechanical Work ...... 86 

X Nutrition — The Cellular Mechanism of Assimila- 
tion AND OF THE PRODUCTION OF VlTAL EnEROY . 101 

vii 



CONTENTS 



PART II.— ALIMENTS 



XI Richness of Obdinaby Aliments in Fondamentai, 

Nutritive Pbinciples — ^Classification of Aliments 114 
XII Meat — Its Consumption — The Flesh of Edible 

Mammifebs ........ 124 

XIII FOBMS UNDEB WHICH MeAT IS EaTEN : RaW, RoAST 

AND Boiled Meat — Beef-tea — Extracts of Meat 139 
Xrv Meats Pbesebved by Cooking, Dessication, Salting, 

Smoking ob Fbeezing . . . . . .152 

XV Meats of Wild ^Mammals — Meats of Bibds — In- 
ternal Organs and Blood — Fish . . .163 

XVI Milk 174 

XVII Derivatives of Milk — Cream of Mjlk — Whey — 
Fermented Milk — Pbepabations of Casein — 

Cheese 189 

XVIII Eggs and Milts — Fatty Bodies . . . .198 

XIX Aliments of Vegetable Origin — Cereals . . 208 

XX Wheat Bbead . 220 

XXI Seed Vegetables — Shoots, Bulbs, Tubebcles and 

Roots 230 

XXn Mushrooms — Hebbaceous Vegetables — Vegetable 

Fruits . . . . . . ... 249 

XXIII Fruits Properly so Called ..... 256 

XXIV Aromatic and Nervine Aliments — Coffee- — Tea — 

Cocoa — Mate, etc. ...... 263 

XXV Fermented Beverages — Alcohol — Wine . . 278 

XXVI Cider — Perry — Beer 295 

XXVII Brandies and Strong Alcoholic Liquors — Alco- 
holism ........ 304 

XXVIII Condiments 311 

XXIX Inorganic Foods 320 

XXX Drinking Water 330 

XXXI Drinking Waters of Different Origins . .344 

XXXII Maladies Attributable to Dbinking Watebs — 
Preservation and Purification of Drinking 

Waters ........ 352 

XXXIU Rational Preparation of Food — Distribution and 

Composition of Meals — Aids to Digestion . . 362 
viii 



CONTENTS 
PART III.— REGIMENS 



I 



XXXIV Alimentary Regimens — Their Influences on 
Races, Aptitudes, Mental Work — ^Variations 
Necessitated by Climate and Seasons . . 373 

XXXV Adaptation of Regimen to Age and Functions op 

THE Individual — Idiosyncrasies . . • 388 

XXXVI Insufficient Regimens — Excessive Regimens — 

Over-feeding .....•• 398 

XXXVII Exclusive Diets — ^Vegetarian Diet — Milk Diet — 

Meat Diet ........ 407 

XXXVIII Alimentary Regimen in Illness in General — 

Diets for Obesity — Arthritis — Gout — Gravel . 418 
XXXIX Diet for Dyspepsia — Abnormal States of Intes- 
tinal Function ....... 434 

XL Diet in Diseases of the Liver and Pancreas — 

Diabetes, Azoturia, Phosphaturia . . • 449 

XLI Diets in Cases of Nephritis — Diseases op the 

Urinary Passages — Uraemia .... 459 

XLII Diet in Chronic Diseases op the Heart and Vessels 

— Pulmonary Diseases . . . . • 465 

XLIII Diet in Cases of Anemia, Chlorosis, Scrofula, 
Rickets, Osteo-malacia, Skin Disease, Syphilis 

AND CACHEXLiE ....... 476 

XLIV Diet in Nervous Affections and Madness . . 483 
XLV Diet in Acute Diseases — Rules Relating to Diet 

IN Fevers in General ..... 487 

XLVI Diet in Different Febrile Disorders . . . 496 

XLVII Diet of Convalescents and op Surgical Cases — 
Loss AND Recovery of Minerals in the Tissues 
of the Organism ...... 506 

XLVIII Alimentation in Hospitals, Asylums, and Prisons 

IN France . . . . ' . . . . 513 

XLIX Alimentation by Artificial Methods — by the 
Stomach Tube — Nutritive Injections — Alimen- 
tary Hypodermic Injections, etc. . . . 526 

L Methods Enabling us to Examine the Effects on 
the System of Alimentary Regimens and Medical 
Agents ........ 531 



IX 



Introduction 

LIFE is a perpetual function ; it has for its seat the 
organs which, working and modifying themselves inces- 
santly, have a constant tendency to revert to their primitive 
type. Thence a continual current of exchanges, the upkeep 
of which is borne by alimentation. According to its nature, it 
preserves in a normal state the composition and the texture of the 
organs, or rather transforms slowly their substance and, with 
it, the functional acts. 

Nothing therefore is of greater importance than to know how to 
feed oneself properly ; nothing is, however, more difficult or more 
misunderstood, and directly it is a question affecting mankind, 
we have to take note of tradition and sentiment with regard to 
one of the main conditions upon which closely depends indivi- 
dual health, family prosperity, the improvement of constitutions 
and of races. It is well known how to feed an ox, a cow, a horse 
or a sheep, so as to make them produce the maximum of meat, 
of milk, of work or of wool ; one knows less well how to feed a 
man. Alimentation has varied with epochs, peoples and pre- 
vailing ideas ; it varies much at the present day, and this grave 
and complex problem of the daily repair of the instruments of 
life, without a superfluous capital or deficit, is still determined 
most often empirically or according to preconceived notions ; 
some, believing that they see the principal source of physical 
vigour and voluntary energy in flesh food, wish to have it 
in plenty, others protest that we already consume too much meat, 
that it charges the fiver and blood with poisons and waste products 
and that it ought, on the contrary, to be much reduced ; others 
extol vegetarianism and say that it suffices for all our needs and 
renders us less susceptible to disease. Many medical men 
to-day forbid alcohofic liquors, such as wine and beer, which they 
declare are at least useless, if not poisonous ; others believe 
them to be stimulating and even precious nourishment. One 
prescribes salt and spiced dishes, another forbids them. Yester- 
day, we were advised to drink as little as possible while eating ; 
to-day, it is necessary to purify the blood by an abundance of 
watery drinks to carry off all poisons and residues. 

Nevertheless alimentation goes on : if irrationally, it leaves every 
day a deficit or else, on the contrary, a vexatious excess of fat, 
flesh, water or mineral salts, and the effects of this careless diet 
accumulating in the midst of the gradually modified nutritive 
plasmas, the cells and the organs undergo a slow degeneration, 

xi 



INTRODUCTION 

health is enfeebled, the constitution becomes more and more 
affected, the tissues worn out and disease is established. 

It is of the utmost importance therefore that man should learn 
how to feed himself rationally and to preserve his youth and liis 
strengtli while there is yet time. It is also necessary that the 
physician should know how to prescribe for him the most effi- 
cacious diet, if he falls ill. I shall endeavour to set out in this 
Work the rules which respond to these fundamental needs. 

It is divided into three parts : 

In the prst I imfold the general principles of normal diet for a 
healthy man. 

In the second I explain the nature and application of each of 
the alimentary substances. 

In the third I study the variation of diet according to individuals, 
races, climates, ages, in health and in sickness. 

The laws of alimentary dietetics have a triple origin : tradition 
when it has withstood time and theory ; -physiological know- 
ledge of the normal function of the organs ; chemical statistics 
which connect the composition and daily expenditure of the 
organs with the composition and the balance-sheet of the foodstuffs. 
These three classes of considerations should support and explain 
each other, and alone are valuable in establishing the rules of 
good alimentary dietetics, those which flow simultaneously from 
these three sources of our knowledge and satisfy them. 

I have always endeavoured to conform my conclusions to tluese 
general considerations. 

The more I have thought about the subject I am treating 
in this work, the more I am convinced that a long empiricism 
has introduced little by little bad habits into our customs 
relating to alimentation. It appears to me that the various 
diatheses, which one is accustomed to attribute vaguely to deli- 
cate temperaments, to faulty constitutions and to idiosyncrasies, 
are most often derived from defective methods of nourishment, 
individual or hereditary. Arthritis, gout, megrim or neuralgic 
conditions, neurasthenia, dyspepsia, gastralgia, enteritis, rickets, 
arteriosclerosis and many affections of the skin, physical and intel- 
lectual deterioration which alcohol begets, and in an indirect way, 
many affections of the heart, Hver and kidneys, indeed some of 
the forms of diabetes itself, may be attributed directly or indi- 
rectly to exaggerated or indiscreet habits of diet and can be 
modified or made to disappear with them. 

I have thought it useful then that the numerous and delicate 
problems connected with the study of diet, in health or in sickness, 
should be examined by a biologist and a chemist, by the clear 
and penetrating light which our modern chemical knowledge 
throws on these important questions. This is the raison d'etre 
of this Work. 

xii 



PART I 

Principles and Methods 
I 

DIET — ITS KOLE — THE MECHANISM OF ASSIMILATION 

/jLIMENTATION has for its role the nourishment of the 
-^^ organs and the maintenance of their regular function. 

Life is only carried on by virtue of the continuous changes and 
expenditures which create the corresponding alimentary wants. A 
full grown man, in good active health, uses up each day, calculated 
in the fresh state, about 500 grms. of his flesh or of other 
albuminous compounds which form his blood and his tissues. 
He burns a part of his fats and furnishes by their combustion, and 
by that of sugars and starches, which foods put at his disposal or 
which his organs provide him with, a quantity of energy which, 
calculated in heat, amounts in the adult to about 2,400 Calories 
in 24 hours. He loses, besides, some water every day, 1300-1350 
cc. by urine, 600-700 cc. by the skin, 450 by the lungs. He 
exhales a quantity of carbonic acid ^ containing 610-690 grms. of 
oxygen and 230-260 grms. of carbon. He throws off nearly 
240-270 grms. of this last element by the total amount of his excre- 
tions. He loses by his faeces or by the urine 22-23 grms. of different 
mineral salts, more than half formed of sea-salt. Daily nourish- 
ment should provide for all this expenditure. 

Foods are therefore the solid, liquid or gaseous materials, 
suitable, when they are introduced into the system, for repairing 
the losses made by the organs and for assuring the exercise of their 
functions. The flesh of animals, their fat, the gluten and starch 
of cereals, ordinary sugar, water, salt, the oxygen of the air itself, 
are foods, because they have the property of maintaining our 
functions and preventing organic decay. 

On the other hand, the flesh and eggs of certain fishes and 
reptiles, the albuminoid matters of some vegetables, and of many 
mushrooms, certain gums and the sugars which correspond to 
them, the salts of heavy metals, the nitrogen of the air, ozone, 

1 Claudon and Morin, Comptes r^ndua, t. CV, p. 1109. 
T B 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

etc., are not foods because, notwithstanding their analogy with 
the preceding substances, they are unsuitable for the maintenance 
of life or for the reconstitution of tissuas. 

In reality, whatever may be its composition and actual form, 
a principle is only alimentary if it can be placed, in traversing the 
digestive tube or in reaching our organs, in such a form that these 
can utilize it either as constructive material or as a means of action. 

On this point it is expedient to give at once some explanations. 

Here are some particles of yeast, yeast of beer or mucor race- 
mosus of the pellicle of the grape ; sown, protected from the air, 
in some sweetened must, or even in a solution of cane sugar, to 
which is added a small quantity of phosphates of potash and 
ammonia, and traces of sulphate of magnesia and lime ; these 
little organisms are nourished, they multiply, and from their 
action results, with emission of heat, a production of materials 
of new formation, complex materials serving to construct the 
cells which have been formed. 

In 100 grammes, calculated in the dry state, of new yeast thus 
formed owing to the active nutrition and the reproduction of 
mother cells, we find : 



Nitrogenous albuminous matters 


. 38 00 grms 


Fats 


• 2-8 


Cellulose matters .... 


• 5-47 „ 


Starchy matters and glycogen 


. 4400 „ 


Leucin, Xanthin, Adenin, etc. 


. 300 „ 


Different organic acids 


. 1 00 „ 


Mineral matters .... 


. 5 50 „ 



From whence do all these new organic matters proceed ? 

These albumins, fats, celluloses and the starchy matters did not 
exist in the original sweetened liquor by which the yeast is nourished 
and in which it is re/produced. 

It must be then that these elements are fixed in the cells in 
the process of growth or of reproduction, not by virtue of a^ 
true intussusception, a kind of choice, owing to which the yeast 
would take from the liquor where it lives the prepared matters 
which it prefers, but rather, by reason of that mysterious aptitude, 
peculiar to all living organisms, which permits them to modify, 
to divide, to combine the substances presented to them by the 
nutritive plasma bathing them, in order to build up, with the 
products thus fashioned by them, the special materials indispens- 
able to their proper action, and the reconstitution of their proto- 
plasms. The particle of yeast does not choose from the nutritive 
centre where it lives even the substances of which it is constructed 
and which do not otherwise exist there : it manufactures them on 
the spot by means of simpler principles, which it combines to repro- 
duce the complicated specific substances of its protoplasms. Such 
is the mysterious phenomenon of the nutrition of the living cell. 

2 



I 



MECHANISM OF ALIMENTATION 

Let us try to analyse it, as nearly as possible, in the compara- 
tively simple case which we have intentionally chosen. 

Placed in contact with sweetened liquor, the cell of beer yeast 
takes possession at once of all the nitrogen of the ammoniacal 
salts, the sulphur of the sulphates, the phosphorus of the phos- 
phates placed at its disposal. All these salts have nearly disap- 
peared right from the very beginning. From the sugar already 
existing in the nutritive liquor, it has borrowed its carbon as well 
as the oxygen which is necessary to it, for it lives in surroundings 
deprived of air. From the mass of these elements (although we 
are not able in the present state of our knowledge to indicate the 
sequence of the intermediary processes), it has formed most com- 
plex substances : these albuminoids, phosphorated proteids, the cel- 
lulose, glycogen, etc., which we find in the cells of new formation. 

The nutrition of the yeast, far from being an act of simple 
intussusception or of chemical deposition in the living cells of 
matter pre-existing in the primitive liquid as when a crystal, 
for example, grows in its mother water, has been then in reality an 
extremely complex act. The little organism has broken up the 
chemical substances offered to it ; it has extracted from them 
the radicals, or the parts which are suitable to it, and has combined 
them in the form of substances which the vital action had caused 
to disappear, and from these materials, thus formed, it has nour- 
ished itself up to the point where, having reached its highest 
development, it has used these food stuffs to reproduce new 
cells capable of recommencing the same work. 

To nourish oneself, is then, in reality, to produce at the expense 
of the food, whatever it may be, a series of acts of dislocation, of 
simplification, and as a corollary and complement, of new associa- 
tions, from which results the reproduction of specific constituent 
principles which the vital action had destroyed. 

The cell of yeast adds a new act to this construction of complex 
and specific organic materials starting from different principles in 
the very simple case which we have chosen. With a little sugar 
and substances chemically inert, ammoniacal salts, phosphates, 
sulphates, etc., substances saturated with oxygen, it forms albumi- 
nous principles, fats, starch, glycogen, cellulose, etc., combustible 
matters filled with chemical potentiality. In order to succeed 
in thus changing inert material into combustible material, this 
organism required some source from which it could draw the 
energy contained in these products of new formation. Life can 
very well fashion matter but it can neither create it nor endow 
it with power. In the case under consideration, the yeast cell 
finds the source of energy indispensable to it in the destruction 
of the greater part of the alimentary sugar, transformed by it 
into carbonic acid and alcohol, a new system containing less 
chemical force than the sugar from which it comes. The difference 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

is partly fixed in the organic substances of new formation, partly 
lost in the midst of the liquid which is heated in the process of 
fermentation. 

Sugar is then a food to the yeast cell since it permits it to act, 
but an indirect food which it neither assimilates nor fixes in any 
appreciable form in its protoplasms. It is one of the foods which 
furnish it with the materials for its constructions : it is also the 
transient means of providing the yeast with the power which it 
needs to create new bodies of high chemical potentiality, in particu- 
lar those proteid substances suitable, by their simple hydrolytic 
divisions, to deliver up to the cell which will destroy them, while 
functioning, a part of the energy stored up beforehand in these 
bodies. 

One sees that food is not only every matter of which the ele- 
ments in being assimilated can enter into the constitution of 
living organs, but also every substance fit to allow them to dis- 
charge their functions, even if these substances were not at any 
time assimilated in nature. 

If, instead of making the ceU of yeast live in a solution of sugar 
to which had been added different salts, we had plunged it into 
must of sweetened grape, after having consumed at the outset the 
0"15 to 0"30 grms. of ammoniacal salts which this must could 
contain per litre in the natural state, the yeast, wanting then some 
nitrate of ammonia, would have taken possession of that which 
it had found in the albuminoids and other nitrogenous substances 
of the juice of the grape. Placed in its natural conditions, this 
cell, in order to construct the protoplasms, makes ase first of all 
of the simplest nitrogenous substances (nitrates, ammoniacal 
salts) ; and it is only after their disappearance that it touches the 
albuminoids of must which, however, much more nearly resemble 
in their constitution the principles which form its protoplasms. 
Thus the proteid substances of must, whilst being of the same 
family as those which enter into the composition of the cell of 
fermentation, are yet not identical with them. In order to 
transform the substance of those albuminous bodies with which 
it should nourish itself into the proteid principles suited to it, and 
fix them in the new tissues which it forms, the yeast is forced to 
a work of assimilation which seems more difficult and more costly 
to this little organism than when it makes these same specific 
albuminous substances out of salts, mineral sulphates and sugar. 
But this last aptitude is only suited to inferior organisms, and the 
cells of animal tissues are incapable of thus forming proteid bodies 
in their entirety. 

It is an interesting fact (and we shall see its application to our 
own tissues) that yeast can exist in two ways : instead of living 
in the complete absence of air, it can also perform its functions 
in breathing and absorbing oxygen in abundance. In this new 

4 



ASSIMILATION AND PRODUCTION OF ENERGY 

kind of work while continuing to feed itself with sugar, it no longer 
transforms this element, as by the anaerobic method, into alcohol 
and carbonic acid, but as an animal itself does, by changing through 
oxidization the sugar into water and carbonic acid. This second 
form of utilizing its principal food, no longer by simple division 
of the sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid, but by total destruc- 
tion, procures for the yeast cell a much larger quantity of chemical 
energy. Thanks to this excess of energy it can develop much 
more quickly in this second case ; it then rapidly assimilates the 
surrounding matters, no longer buds forth into thin rows of 
daughter cells, but into branching swelling bundles, and, jor the 
same quantity of siigar expended, it manufactures a weight, fifteen 
to twenty times greater, of new cells. 

We here draw singularly near to the method of nutrition and 
functioning of animals. They have not, like the yeast, the capacity 
of living in case of need without air ; but a part of the internal 
action of the cells of their tissues is produced anaerobically in 
deoxygenated and reduced surroundings. But what the animal 
cell could not do is to transform into nutritious substances mineral 
matters, such as the salts of ammonia, sulphates, phosphates, etc., 
fallen into chemical inaction. Like the cell of yeast living in 
air, animals breathe and work by virtue of the energy which they 
chiefly obtain from the combustion of their foods by the aerial 
oxygen. These foods are more complex than for the yeast cell. 
They should necessarily contain, besides sugars and analogous 
ternary bodies, albuminous elements which the animal is unfit 
to produce entirely.^ 

But these alimentary albuminoids are never the same as those 
which constitute the organs of those beings which are nourished 
by them ; it is necessary that each kind of animal, that each of 
the organs of the same kind or the same individual, form the 
alimentary element which they may receive and identify them 
with the principles of which they are composed. It is necessary, 
in a word, that they should assimilate them, in the literal sense 
of the word, to their own substance ; and that is their first work 
and their first expenditure. 

It is not the principal one. To live is to function : in the case 
of warm blooded animals, it is also to supply incessantly heat and 
mechanical power. We shall see that, like the cell of yeast living 
in air, an animal can only afford this outlay of energy by means 
of the combustion of the oxygen of the ternary materials (sugars 
and fats) supplied by its food. And as its organs are used up by 
work, it is also necessary to perpetually renew them by the fresh 
capital of proteid materials which the animal has first to sink, so 

* Exception might be made perhaps for the products of the division of 
the proteoses by the intestinal erepsin. 

5 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

to speak, in the mould of its organism proper, before it can 
utilize it in the reconstruction of its protoplasms. 

Such is, from a general point of view, the phenomenon of 
nutrition and assimilation and the sources from wliich the vital 
function borrows the energy which it expends. 

The adult man in full health recuperates daily by his food what 
he loses by his functions. In the normal state, the two conditions 
balance one another, but if by an internal or external cause an 
inequality is produced ; if the indi\'idual happens to lose more 
than he gains, or to accumulate more than he loses ; if the 
nutrition is abnormal, such or such cells charging themselves 
with albumin, Avith fat, with nitrogenous matters incompletely 
used up or oxidized ; if the organs of dissimilation are choked 
up or exhausted ; if the eliminating filters of materials harmful 
to life only work imperfectly ; if food no longer provides the 
necessary quantities of nitrogen, iron, phosphorus, potash, lime, 
magnesia, etc. ; if some of the rare and specific matters, the 
significance of which has escaped us for a long time, iodine, 
bromine, arsenic, manganese, etc., diminish or disappear from 
the aliments and the organs ; if the oxidations are not 
sufficiently assured through want of the oxidizing agents ; if 
the other ferments of the system are too strong or too weak pro- 
portionally, or rendered inactive by pathogenic ferments cf 
opposite action, etc., then the faulty temperament, morbid dia- 
thesis, predisposition, pathological state, acute or chronic disease 
are established, sometim^es quickly and more often gradually. 
Attention to the rules of diet is the method of alimentation specially 
designed in these cases to nourish the mdividuals predisposed 
or ill, so as to co-operate with medical advice properly given, in 
re-establishing the organs and functions in their normal state. 

How can we escape from the numerous causes of decay which 
we have just pointed out, and how can we normally regulate our 
food ? Theory, formulae, would be, d priori, powerless to resolve 
this too complex problem. We will, first of all, seek its practical 
solution in the examination of facts and statistics, and verify it 
methodically afterwards. 



I 



II 

FOODS ARE BORROWED BY MAN FROM THE THREE KINGDOMS 
— TYPE OF AVERAGE ALIMENTATION 

IN all countries and at all times, man has obtained from 
the three kingdoms — vegetable, animal and mineral — the 
nourishment which is indispensable to him. Without doubt, in 
extreme climates, the Laplander or Greenlander feeds liimself 
almost entirely on the flesh and fat of the fish or cetacea which 
he catches, the negro on the roots and fruits of his forests ; but 
neither one or the other seeks with less avidity the little vegetable 
or animal food which the scanty herbage of the polar regions 
furnishes them with, and the game or the rare domestic animals 
which can live in the Torrid Zone. The civihzed man of our 
country, rich or poor, forms his nourishment of meat, milk, bread, 
fruits, water, and of different salts which his foods bring him, or 
which he adds tO them. 

In thus varying liis food, and borrowing it at once from ani- 
mals, plants, and minerals, he obeys, as we shall see, an instinct 
which guides him more surely than his reason. 

Of all material mechanisms, Uving or not, that of the animal 
is the most complex : there enters normally into his constitution 
seventeen or eighteen simple bodies : hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur, 
fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic, 
carbon, silicon, potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, iron and 
perhaps copper, manganese, aluminium, boron and vanadium. 
All these elements (and perhaps those which we do not yet recog- 
nize), associated in a very complex manner, are like the special 
pieces, the wheels or constituent parts of complex principles with- 
out which the life of certain organs, and the general life of the 
individual, remain unreahzable. It appears then very improbable, 
if not impossible, that a single alimentary substance, be it milk, 
flesh or bread, and even that a single kingdom exclusively, either 
of animals or plants, could furnish all the elements at once, at 
least in relative acceptable quantities and in a sufficient weight. 

Carnivorous animals, it is true, can feed themselves indefinitely 
on meat and do without vegetables by reason of the aptitude 
they have of transforming into ammonia a notable quantity of 

7 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

their nitrogenous aliments and of thus alkahzing their blood. 
But man only possesses this faculty to a relative extent. 

The herbivorous man or the vegetarian can certainly hve 
solely on herbs or vegetables, but it is only by accumulating a 
mass of nourishment so that a considerable portion of it remains 
unused. It is rejected after having furnished the necessary 
principles, owing to the superabundance of some and to the in- 
utiUzation of others. 

Having neither the aptitude of the carnivora, nor the digestive 
capacities of the herbivora, man at all times and among all 
peoples has had recourse, in order to nourish himseK, to a mixed 
diet at once vegetable, animal and mineral. The most natural 
food for our species after milk, bread, even when water and 
salt have been added to it, does not indefinitely suffice, as the 
experience of the EngHshman Stark, who was the victim of it, 
has demonstrated. 

In a general way, we observe that our organs have above all, 
while destroying themselves by the very discharge of their 
functions, the need of drawing from nourishment the materials 
of which they are constructed, or those which resemble them 
the most by their constitution. 

In the normal state these organs are composed of cells formed 
of a membrane fiUed with an albuminous, very complex pro- 
toplasm, enveloping a nucleus very rich in phosphorus. 

The albuminous substances wliich, combined with water and 
some salts, compose in a young animal almost the whole weight 
of their tissues, form the great family of albuminoid or proteid 
matters, the most complicated elements of the animal or vegetable 
economy. They are called albuminoids because they have the 
general properties of the principal material of the wliite of egg 
or albumen. AU the albuminoid or proteid principles of the 
young cell and of its nucleus contain carbon, associated with 
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, more rarely 
iodine or iron. These protoplasmic albuminoids are most often 
amorphous, incapable of dialysis, of an inmost asymmetric 
texture, for they all act on polarized Ught. Chemically indifferent, 
they can play at the same time the part of bases or of very 
feeble acids. They are all capable of hydrolysis (that is to say, 
of dividing while taking up water) under the influence of acids 
diluted with water, of bases, of acids, ferments, etc. Owing 
to this first step of hydration, after having given a series of 
phosphorated derivatives, the nudeins, and different interme- 
diary bodies, they are transformed definitely into a series of com- 
plex amides, leucin, tyrosin, oxamide, aurin, glycocoU, urea, etc., 
which we find again in most of our humours and tissues. 

By the side of these fundamental proteid substances which 
compose the essential part of our cells, substances at once nitro- 

8 



NECESSITY OF A MIXED ALIMENTATION 

genized, sulphurated and phosphorated {cytoproteids and nucleo- 
proteids), there are generally to be found more simple albuminoids 
Uke these, but deprived of phosphorus. The albumen of egg 
is the prototype of them. They appear to arise from the pre- 
ceding by divisions or to proceed from ahmentary substances. 
With these we always find in the animal cells, fats resulting 
from the union of fatty acids with a common alcohol, glycerin, 
carbo-hydrates, like starch and sugar, glycogen (C^H^^O^)", 
glucose (C^ff^O^), inosit or muscular sugar (C*H^^O*'), etc. 

The albuminoid substances, phosphorated or not, are not 
free in the cell ; they are united with water and different salts, 
principally with phosphates of potash, magnesia and hme. The 
cellular elements of each tissue bathe, so to speak, in an inter- 
stitial humour or plasma of lymphatic or sanguineous origin, 
which receives the products resulting from the discharge of 
the functions of organs (ferments or materials destined to nourish 
other tissues or to be excreted) and which brings at the same 
time to each cell the nutritive principles of ahmentary origin. 
Of these last principles some, the smallest number, are stored 
up just as they existed in the aUments, some must be modified 
in their composition and structure before being utilized, as 
I have already shown (pp. 2-4). 

It is important then, for the best economy of the forces of 
which the Uving being disposes, that ahmentation should furnish 
it with those nutritive substances in a form nearest to that 
which will permit of their final assimilation. Hence, without 
doubt, the advantage of that varied aUmentation which a long 
experience guided by instinct has caused us to adopt. 

The necessity of providing each organ with a number of 
specific materials, varying according to the tissue, explains the 
folly of attempts made to artificially feed animals with mixtures, 
apparently reasonable, of alimentary elements too much sim- 
pHfied, or even entirely with natural foods, such as meats or 
bread, taken exclusively. 

It is necessary therefore to guard oneself against all theoretical 
feeding, even if apparently perfectly rational, and in order to 
feed normally, it is before all necessary to examine how comfort- 
able and prosperous populations feed themselves, to determine 
the abuses which a long usage has been able to introduce gradu- 
ally into general habits, abuses of which the criterion is a 
physical degeneracy and weakness of the powers of the mind or 
of the will. We shall estabhsh later on that it is indeed more 
exact and more sure (if not apparently more scientific) to take 
as a t5rpe of normal alimentation that of populations hving in a 
temperate cHmate and under average conditions of health and 
of mechanical work, than to base the rules of diet upon the study 
of some particular individual cases which may falsify the results. 

9 



a|s 


oo oo 


oooo 












O O C'l lO 


OS<N — -. 








10 CO 


N ooiN e^ i:^ 


2.SJJ. 


ti-H 't jiO oo 


<N IN O CO 


1 


j 


1 1 


1 W«op 


CO 00 00 -^ jJjIN 


ft) 

> (-1 bi 


J<!W t-.«^0 


-^ (N 6 5<l 


1 




1 1 


1 OD S t- 


OS CO 1> J«l^ 


tK CO-h 










t- 


00 r-t 


















„ 


<N-^ 


05 ec rf CO 








CO 

00 


•0 


1 


O OS 


lO fo — r- 








OS ^^ 


N >0 CO CO t^ 


1 1 ti®* 


lO ao -. IN 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 (X>*^eo 


^ t;. OS ti- 


1 1 .M(M <M 


IN lO (N W 


1 


1 


1 1 


i ""so 


M' CO CO 00 .;<; X 


Ir^ —1 












— 
















IN 




5D -H 


C5 CO t^ 00 











r- 


■ 


lo r^ 


IN lO W -H 








t^ 


CO 10 


Ob 


1 1 ti"?* 


r--^ t^ « 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 r^-^'^ 
1 ^'Sio 


t- ■* ^to 


w 


1 1 S^«>~ 


« >0 6 IN 


1 


1 


1 1 


la CO 6 CO J<i^- 


'^ 


to — 1 


^H ^- ^^ 








C5 


— 

IN j 




•* M 


CI5 CO Oi O 








05 


(^ 




CO (N 


00 10 








CO 


t^-* t~- t-. CO 


§ 


1 1 ti"?"? 


t^ 10 CO t~ 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 10^0 


r ? "f 9 ti9 


00 


1 1 ".o-^ 


6 1061N 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 ab:Sab 


t-- "H OS ob^r-- 


rH 


!0 -H 










00 


t^ 




t^» 


e<i r^ -H 








00 


CO 




05 IN 


■* — 10 r^ 








00 


OS CO <— I CO 00 




1 1 ti?9 


•0 t^ •* r^ 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 *£'? 


®r '9'r Bi"? 


00 


1 1 .Mcq IM 


«6©1N 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 00305 


CO CO OS t^ .Mr- 




«-^ 










lr~ 


OS 




O 00 lO 


<N C3 X 








CO 


r^ 




O 0510 


■* C5 -« CO 








— 


CO 10 05 CO 


a 


»'?' 1 =?■? 


IN .-< --I CO 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 CO ^eo 


t- 05 CO — tj^^ 


S 


J* i 1 M -H 


(N -J (N 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 ob SCO 


ocbo t^.«^- 


" 


2 ®- 


rt -< ^ 








t- 


05 — ; 




r^ — 


«5 CD «5 10 








10 


r^ 




IN — < 


tS 00 •* CO 








I- 


CD 5<l CO 


OS 


ti 1 9°P 


■* t^ 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 CO ^ >o 


IN OS IN tjjC^ 


00 


^ 2 ' -^ ® 


-^ -^ 6 IN 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 obst^- 


6 CO — ^-.« |4 




-* CO 










CO 


— 
IN 




C5 O 


>0 CO IN 








„ 


„ 






00 t^O CO 








CO 


00 IN 00 05 


a 


«i 1 ^rtr 


IN 00-* 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 ^- 10 


<N <0 — tJjIN 


00 


J<<C 1 o o» 


6-^6iN 


1 


1 


1 1 


^ OD — t^ 


-* OS 6 t^A!t^ 


'^ 


Tjl CO 










CO 


OS — 




o — 


00 e»5 








lO 







rt -^ 


« IN IN 








t^ IN 


000 c 


CO 


ti 1 '?'* 


(N ■<* CO 10 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 ®«i~* 


1 05 CD tiS 


00 


j« w 1 lo o 


-^ OCS-N 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 doSib 


CO 1 — eb.M^ 


^ 


■* « -H 










CO 


00 -H 




O «0 (N 


05 CO IN U5 








05 


05 




O 00 ■* 


CO t^ ■* 








IN 


t- t- 


05 


ti'* 1 '?'0 


IN IN 10 CD 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 9 1 


T 1 1 =? ti-^ 


00 


4<«0 1 ■<*< O 


"^ OS IN 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 00 1 


CO 1 1 00.^^ 




■^ CO — 


fH ^H 










00 




-* OS 


u5 ■* C5 r- 








■* 


•* IN OS CO Jo 




(N ■* 


OS -^f OS CO 











Oi 


ti 1 «"=? 


10 t~ ■* IN 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 *"* I 


^ OS 19 ^ 5<l 5i,5 


00 


a: CO 1 MO 


6 CO 05 e'l 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 00 1 


— CO •<* — t^ .M A, 

00 ^^ 


•^ 


•* CO -< 


p-H 1—1 












^^ 












"^ 




CO lO 


IN CO lO 








„ 


I 


§ 


t^ ■* 


t^ 05 IN t- 











S^ ■* t^O 


ti 1 fr 


■<t 10 C<1 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 ■? 1 


^- CD CO ■* jjjCO 


00 


Mis 1 ^O 


^ CO OS IN 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 00 1 


S 00 CO — CO .i< t- 




-* CO -< 


l-H ^^ 










r^ — 




• • •^- 


« .s . 


60 

> 


"5" 
1 






Wine 

Cider, perry, hydromel 

Beer 

Brandy .... 

Salt 




pies, cak 

's meat 
alted m 
d meats 
and gam 

kilogram 

leses . 


3 





M) 


u 

■1 




S 




Bread , 
Pastry, 

Butcher 
Pork, 8 


cookei 
Poultry 
Fish . 
Eggs (in 
Dry che 


-si 


3 0*2 
« c 





>>ei) 


<o 


^.S 


« 










'it 


> 








^ 


&« 




> > 


B 



!=;2 


S. 






•S" 


t^ 


^1 


^ 



§■?«£ 

-,^ og O 

i .«2 

o . a. o 

o " 

•■|'«'§ 
s «•■^•- 

S tr M ^ 

O « > 

°TJ.23 o 
■^ caK- • 



.w 3 3 » B 

o « o >>e 

•^affi »3 
o ••^ ^ *« 

o ^ c o ao 
"^^ o ^ 05 c 
T3 c. « S •> 

.^ ._ 3 b- o 
o t. O ., •S 

eg S C C r; "^ 

.2 C a) O tj, 

5 a « » g£ 
.23 bT « «8 ?? a 

.H tc_« "Sen 
> O •© 



10 



AVERAGE ALIMENTATION OF PARIS 

One cannot be too much on one's guard against the variations 
or exceptions which result from temperaments, from customs 
of races, from arbitrary choice made by the most conscientious 
investigators. Uncertainty increases in proportion to the small 
number of subjects which one thus studies, and the complicated 
analysis of so delicate a problem as the establishment of the 
alimentary balance increases it still further. 

Average alimentation of Paris— From this point of view I have 
thought that nothing would afford better demonstration than 
a detailed examination of the ordinary feeding of the whole of 
the inhabitants of a large community like Paris. The 2,800,000 
individuals (Parisians or foreigners) included within its walls 
receive annually an enormous quantity of most varied foods, an 
amount which I have verified by the entries of the municipal 
registers, complemented by the statistics of the weights of fresh 
and dry vegetables not inscribed in the books of the town, but 
which I have determined according to the consumption of a 
certain number of average families. It has thus been possible 
for me to establish not only the average quantity of food con- 
sumed in Paris, but the consumption that is made of each of 
the principal alimentary commodities.^ 

Here is the result of this inquiry for the last decennial period 
1890-1899.2 (See table preceding page.) 

From these figures, the totals for the dry or green vegetables, 
and potatoes, pastries, lard, sugars, sweetened preserves, etc., 
and thanks to the facts which I myself have remarked concerning 
a certain number of average families, it is ascertained that the 
daily consumption of an inhabitant of Paris in the last decennial 
period has been as follows ^ : 



* I have made, for the first time, a detailed study of the food of Paris at 
the request of the Minister of War, in view of the rules to be followed and 
the provisioning to be determined, to insure in time of war the defence of 
the intrenched camps. I have taken as my basis the consumption of Paris. 
I have intentionally mixed the adult men, women and children, considering 
that the work of the one almost compensated the lesser weight of the others, 
the average of this feeding would approximately represent the quantity 
of food utilized by the average male adult living quietly. Returning to 
this calculation and trying to keep an accoimt of the number and 
relative weights of the women and children, my colleague and friend, 
M. Ch. Richet, has arrived at a number a little greater than mine, but 
which I believe, not without reason, is too great because he has not suffi- 
ciently taken into account the fluctuating foreign population, nor the excess 
of consumption due to the working classes. 

2 I have made this inquiry for the preceding decennial period 1880-1889 
and I have given the result in the First Edition of this work (p. 12). (See 
Note 4 on next page. ) 

3 Obtained by dividing the annual average consumption resulting from 
the general table above (1890-1900) by the number of days in the year. 

II 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Average Food per Day of an Inhabitant of Paris (1890-1899). 



Bread 

Pastry and cakes 

Butclier's meat ' (beef, veal, mutton 

horse) .... 

Pork, salted meats, cooked meats 
Poultry, game .... 

Fish 

Eggs (weighed with shell) . 

Cheese (dry or cream) 

Butter, oil, etc. .... 

Fresh fruits .... 

Green vegetables 

Dried vegetables 

Potatoes, rice .... 

Sugar ..... 

Milk 

Wine ..... 

Cider, perry, hydromel 

Beer ..... 

Brandy, liqueurs, etc. 

ffitchen salt .... 



20 



} 



420 grms. 



30 (with bones I in boned 

3 1 1 and feathers f meat 216 



net 



33-4J 269-7 

27-4 klgrm. 
81 

28 

70 
250 

40 
100 

40 
213 cc. 
518-6 cc.) Total 

10-6 cc. 1557-6 cc or 

29.0cc.)532cc. to9° 

19-2cc.|I^P^^,} 9-5 cc. 
( alcohol J 

20 grms. 20 grms. 



I grms. 
24-1 grms. 
81 

282 „ 
70 „ 
250 
40 „ 
100 „ 
40 „ 
213 cc. 
532 cc.3 



2,078 grms. 

One will notice how constant the alimentary consumption 
of an inhabitant of Paris remains in comparing the average for 
1890-1900 with the average for the preceding years 1880-89 
which I give here in a note.* 

The consumption of bread and meat has remained practically 
the same. Thanks to the advice of medical men and to the practice 
of sterilization, that of milk has very sensibly augmented : 
from 150 cc. per head per day it has risen to 213 cc. It is only 
by reason of a verification of averages, which I consider most 



' Bones are included and count as a 50th part. 

2 Including fat and lard. 

3 All alcoholic liquors are here reduced or calculated to 9 per cent. 

* In our First Edition we have given as the average consumption per 
day of an inhabitant of Paris {Previous period 1880-1889) the following 
numbers — 

Bread, pastry, cakes ..... 430 grms. 



Meat, game, fish, fowl, offal (raw) 




266 „ 


Milk 




150 „ 


Eggs 




30 „ 


Fresh fruits ..... 




90 „ 


Herbaceous vegetables 




200 „ 


Dried vegetables .... 




40 „ 


Potatoes, rice, other thick foods 




100 „ 


Cheese ...... 




12 „ 


Sugar ... . . 




40 „ 


Butter and oil . 




28 „ 


Wine, beer, etc. (brandy calculated at 10 per cent.) 


650 „ 


Total weight .... 




2,036 grms 



12 



AVERAGE ALIMENTATION OF PARIS 

exact, that I have carried the consumption of herbaceous vege- 
tables from 200 to 250 grms. per day. The use of wine appears 
to have somewhat diminished in the last decennial period. It 
has, however, risen again during the last years. On the other 
hand, alcoholic liquors have advanced from 4 to 7 litres per head 
per year. 

Let us notice that these numbers relating to an average inhab- 
itant of Paris include children and women. The quantities per 
head per day of bread, meat, vegetables and wine would be a 
little higher if they were calculated for adults alone. But it 
seems that one may consider that the smaller alimentation of 
the woman and child, who weigh less and do not work, almost 
balances that of the adult workmen who work and eat more than 
the child and the bourgeois at ease. We will consider that 
the deficit of some compensates the excess of consumption of 
others, and that the alimentation thus calculated agrees very 
nearly with the maintenance of the average man of our climate 
living in a state of repose. 

We shall show, moreover, later on, that our figures correspond 
very exactly to the measure of the needs of the adult who 
does not furnish mechanical work, needs calculated according 
to other methods, in particular according to the nature and 
quantity of his total excretions, or according to the expenditure 
in energy of the average man, and we shall deduce our conclu- 
sions from these facts. 

For the moment we will confine ourselves to the statement, 
according to the tables given above, that at Paris the food con- 
sumed (drinking water not included) weighs about 2 klgrms. 
for 24 hours and that in this average quantity of food, for 100 
parts of foods (nourishing drinks, cider, beer and alcohol not 
included) one finds : 

Foods of animal origin . . . . • . 22*8 

Foods of vegetable origin . . . . . . 77'2 

Of the 22-8 per cent, of animal matter, meat and its congeners 
form 19-3 per cent. ; milk and eggs 3-5 per cent. 

In the 77 per cent, of vegetable origin, bread and its analogues 
account for 30 per cent., dry vegetables, potatoes and fecula, 
sugar, for 13 ; fresh vegetables and fruit for 22 to 23 per cent. 

Nourishing alcoholic drinks form about a quarter, or 25 per 
cent, of the total ration. 

Let us add that in the daily food fresh vegetables are repre- 
sented for about a fifth part by cabbages, a fifth by carrots, 
turnips, radishes, etc. ; the rest include sorrel, spinach, various 
salads, onions, celery, asparagus, mushrooms, peas, haricot beans, 
etc. 

One sees all the detailed information which the study of the 

13 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



feeding of this great human society provides us with and also how 
many varieties of foods and different elements, borrowed from 
the soil which nourishes the plant, are furnished by a vegetable diet. 

Finally let us add to our daily dishes about 8 to 9 grms. of salt. 

That is not all. Foods introduce into our organs a quantity 
of water insufficient to compensate for our losses ; whence the 
sensation of thirst. The water which the preceding estimate 
gives is calculated in the following table : 



Per Day. 



Meat, milk, eggs, cheese . 
Bread and its congeners . 
Fruit, vegetables, potatoes, etc. 
Wine, cider or beer (calculated 
at 9% for the wine) 



Quantities of 
Fresh Food. 



492 grnis. 
490 „ 
480 „ 
557 „ 



Quantities of 
Dry Food. 



Corresponding 
Water. 



123 grms. 

319 „ 
59 „ 
62 „ 



369 grms. 
171 „ 
421 „ 

495 „ 



Total water derived from the food, about 



1456 grms. 



Excreting daily by the kidneys, the skin and the lungs about 
2,450 grms. of water, the adult will then have need of the differ- 
ence (2,450— 1,456) or very nearly994cc., about a Utre, of water 
for his daily drink. 

Such is the balance-sheet of the normal alimentary allowance 
of an average population where the number of those who live 
sparingly, and scarcely consume what is necessary, nearly make 
up for the superfluity of those who allow themselves luxurious 
nourishment ; an active, intelligent population of workmen, of 
townsmen, of women and children, where the work of some, 
without being exaggerated, counterbalances the ease of the 
others ; an immense agglomeration, living in a temperate cli- 
mate, having a relatively large contingent of strangers from all 
parts of our country and of the civilized world ^ ; representing, 
in a word, a good mean as the type of feeding of modern people, 
energetic and laborious. We shall, in consequence, consider 
the preceding figures as a provisional but sufficient basis for 
discussion, established apart from any prepossession or theoretical 
consideration, except to verify afterwards these numbers by 
comparing them with the results given by other methods. 

I shall show later on that these data, deduced in a purely em- 
pirical manner, respond very exactly to the most precise teach- 
ings of the laboratory and to the best studied theoretical needs. 

Without doubt, even in our climate and in our country, on 
the coast of Brittany, in Limousin, the Auvergne, on the shores 
of the Mediterranean, there are peoples, who altogether producing 
a sufficient quantity of labour, are content with a very inferior 

* About the fifteenth part of the total population. 

14 



ALIMENTARY BALANCE-SHEET 

daily ration to that of Paris. Buckwheat bread, some butter, 
and, in times of plenty, some little fish and pork, suffice daily for 
a poor family of Breton fishers. Our peasants of the south, the 
hard workers which Spanish Catalonia especially and Piedmont 
send us, are satisfied with bread, salt, oil, garlic and with meat 
once or twice a week. Some handfuls of rice or dates suffice for 
the Hindoo and Arab on which to pass the day without suffering 
from hunger. But from individuals or populations so badly 
nourished, one must not expect great intellectual activity, 
laborious and continued work or energy indefinitely sustained, 
nor above all a resistance to the causes of decline which result 
in a premature old age. Upon the whole, whilst doing a sufficient 
amount of work, even excessive at times, these poor people, 
insufficiently fed, finish by languishing into a kind of passiveness 
and dreaminess and are exhausted more or less quickly. With 
this insufficient diet man is quickly worn out and dies earlier, 
whereas the better nourished workman of our large towns, in 
spite of the often vicious habits which the immoderation of 
civilization brings and permits, has generally before him several 
years longer to live. 

Thus, as we have already remarked, the alimentary regime such 
as one deduces from the observation of the great labouring 
and prosperous human agglomerations, is a mixed regime and not 
exclusively vegetarian. In Paris, for 100 parts of food, including 
alimentary liquors, 23 are borrowed from the animal and 77 from 
the vegetable kingdom. We shall see later that the property 
of these mixed regimes is to carry to its maximum the utilization 
of alimentary materials. Thanks to the association of vegetable 
and animal nourishment, about 92 per cent, of albuminoid 
substances, 95 per cent, of fats, 97 per cent, of sugars and starches 
are digested in the intestine and then utilized ; so that with a 
diet purely animal or vegetable the utilization of the albuminoids 
may fall to 85 per cent, and less, and that of the fats to 70 per cent- 
New proof that, if one places oneself in normal conditions, the 
facts deduced from observation form the most solid bases of our 
theories. The criterion of the exactitude of these latter will always 
be that they fit the most general facts of observation. 

We sliall try further on to determine exactly the alimentary 
needs of diverse populations varying with the climate, manner 
of living, customs, age, race, work furnished by the work- 
man, etc. 



15 



Ill 



NORMAL PROPORTIONS OF THE ORGANIC FUNDAMENTAL PRINCI- 
PLES OF ORDINARY ALIMENTATION— METHODS OF EXPERI- 
MENTAL STUDY OF THE NUTRITIVE BALANCE-SHEET 

THUS, as we have said, the tissues of animals are composed 
essentially of water and of albuminoid or phosphorized 
proteid matters combined with some salts. The tissues and 
plasmas contain, in a fresh state, the following percentage 
quantities of these albuminous materials, calculated here in the 
dry state, for some of our most important organs. 



Muscles . . . . 
Total blood . . . 
Red blood corpuscles . 
Blood plasma 
Lymph . . . . 

Liver 

Brain, etc 



Albuminoids. 


Water. 


20-7 


720 


20-3 


78-9 


20-6 


630 


8-3 


89-8 


34 


95 


12-9 


730 


11-6 


770 



Fats and some carbo-hydrates of the nature of sugars and 
starch, bodies directly supplied by ahmentation or, in some part, 
derived from the first step of division of the protoplasmic albumin- 
oids, generally accompany these latter substances in the cell in 
varying proportions, or accumulate in some of the tissues. At 
the same time one finds, as a result of vital action, the products 
of the continual destruction of the protoplasms : urea, different 
amides, complex nitrogenous extractive bodies, chlorides, sulphates 
and phosphates, carbonic acid, etc., so many waste products 
carried away by the circulation and destined to be rejected by the 
kidney, the skin, the lung or the intestine. 

In what measure and relative proportions the albuminous ele- 
ments suitable to the reconstruction of the protoplasms, on the 
one part, and on the other the ternary bodies in reserve, the sugars 
and fats which constitute the principal source of the energy of 
which the ^njmal di8poses,in what proportion ought these different 

J6 



METHODS TO ESTABLISH NORMAL ALIMENTATION 

elements to be provided for us by the daily food ? It is theoretic- 
ally impossible to calculate it, except with great uncertainty, 
for, as we shall show, we need not the precise necessary amount 
corresponding to the losses of the economy during the digestion 
of food stuffs, but a superfluity in order to evenly repair the wear 
and tear of the protoplasms and to provide for the expenditure 
of nitrogenous substances. The reserves or deficits of nitrogenous 
and ternary bodies already assimilated or lost, greatly influence 
also the proportions under which these different substances ought 
to be found mixed in the food. It is then a very delicate problem, 
beyond the authenticated statistics made on a great human 
community, to try to determine logically, by experimental study 
of a few individuals, the daily necessary proportion of each of the 
fundamental sources of normal ahmentation. I have tried, how- 
ever, to resolve this problem by various methods which I will 
now explain. 

A. Empirical methods. It seems logical to try to resolve this 
question by the strict observation of facts, whether one takes as 
an example a small number of individuals functioning and nourish- 
ing themselves freely, and in well defined conditions of age, 
weight, constitution, etc., and that one should generaHze from 
these observations : or whether we start with an examination of 
the ahmentation of a great human community living under 
normal conditions, and calculate the assessment of the albumin- 
oid and ternary elements existing in the average usual ration thus 
determined, reserving the right afterwards of comparing or con- 
trolling the empiric results obtained with those which are brought 
about by the study of the ahmentation of typical svhjects. This 
is the average empirical method which I have beHeved it prefer- 
able to have recourse to, for the reasons already shown (p. 10). 
Knowing the number of the inhabitants and, even in its details, 
the quantity and the nature of the foods consumed by the 
immense community of Paris during a period of ten years, and 
referring to the tables of the average composition of the foods 
which I shall give further on (Chapter XII), it has been easy for 
me to calculate per day and per head, the quantity of each of the 
nutritive fundamental principles (albuminoid bodies, fats, carbo- 
hydrates, salts) contained in the average daily ration thus deter- 
mined. I have made this calculation for the whole of Paris and for 
the 3,652 days of the decennial period 1889-1899. Here are the 
results obtained, for twenty -four hours, for the average individual : 



17 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Table of the Average Alimentation of an Inhabitant of Paris 
(Decennial period 1890-li 



Matter and Weight of Food 
consumed per head and per day. 



Gross 
Weight. 



Bread 

Pies, cakes, pastry . 

Butcher's meat 

Pork, salted meats, cooked 

meats 

Poultry, game .... 

Fish 

Eggs (with shell) . 

Cheese 

Butter, oil, etc. 

Fresh fruits .... 

Herbaceous vegetables 

(peeled) 

Dried vegetables . 
Potatoes, rice .... 

Sugar 

Milk 

Wine 

Cider, perry, etc. . 

Beer 

Brandy, liqueurs . 

Salt 



Total weight of daily ration 20780 grms. 



400 grms. [ 

20 „ ) 

175 3 „ 

30 „ 

31 „ 
33 4 „ 

27-4 „ 

81 „ 

280 „ 

700 „ 

250 „ 

40 „ 
100 „ 

40 „ 
213 cc. 
518 „ ] 

10-6 „ } 

290 „ J 

19-2 „ 

20-2 grms. 



Net weight 

(exempt 

from waste, 

bones and 

feathers). 



Alimentary Fundamental 
Group. 



420 grms. 



216 net,. 



24 2 „ 
81 „ 

280 „ 
70 „ 

250 „ 

40 „ 

100 „ 

40 „ 

213 „ 

532CC.1 

9-5 CC.2 
20 grms. 



Albu- 
mins. 



grms. 
30-20 



4376 



3 10 
709 
025 
015 

455 
9-44 
1 30 

7-79 



Fats. 



! Carbo- 
jhydrates 



grms. I grms. 
1-95 2010 



15-88 



300 
253 
240 



050 

0-80 
015 

773 



650 

10 
13 
000 
5-00 

1125 
22 24 
2000 
3840 
9-48 

691 

17-2 



102-1 j 56 54 400 403 



Such is in quantities, nature and proportions, the average daily 
ration for the maintenance of an inhabitant of Paris. 

In passing I may observe, in order that I may later draw 
conclusions from the fact, that of the 102 grms. of albuminoids 
566 grms., or more than half, are of animal origin. 

C. Voit had already observed that whilst the animal albumin 
consumed by a member of the middle class in easy circumstances 
amounts to 77 per cent., the vegetable to 33 per cent, only ; with 
the workman meat furnishes 37 per cent, only of the total of the 
proteid substances. Uffelmann in the food of four vigorous 
artisans finds 46 per cent, of albumin in the meat and 54 in 
the vegetables of their diet. These are almost the proportions 
yielded by the whole population of Paris. 

We think, Uke Uffelmann, that there is a danger of sensibly 

1 Calculated in alcoholic liquors brought up to 9°. The alcohol has been 
afterwards transformed and reckoned in corresponding glucose. 

2 Calculated in pure alcohol and corresponding sugar. 

3 This weight of 4004 grms. reduces itself to 314 grms. carbo-hydrate 
on an average, if one does not add, as one has done here, the sugar corre- 
sponding to the alcohol of the fermented liquors consumed per day. 

i8 



NORMAL ALIMENTATION 

exceeding these proportions and of asking muscular flesh for 
more than 60 to 65 per cent, of aUmentary nitrogen. 

From this instructive table of Parisian ahmentation we still 
maintain that, conforming to what is admitted by the most 
competent hygienists, the relation of the proteid substances 
to the ternary bodies (fats and starches) is 1 to 4*5 or 22 of the 
first for 100 of the second. We shall see that it is not desirable 
that the weights of the proteid matters should exceed one quarter 
that of the ternary substances. 

To the very detailed and precise quantitative statements 
which this table furnishes, doubtless it will be objected that the 
Parisian dietary, although calculated for a great number of 
individuals at once and for a period of ten years, cannot exactly 
represent the average alimentary maintenance of individual 
adults living at ease ; that it is not certain that the labour of some 
may be exactly balanced by the repose of others, or by their more 
feeble weights ; that man eating more than woman, the balance 
on this point is still doubtful. These objections may appear 
valid, but they entirely disappear if one compares the figures 
thus arrived at with those obtained from other very different 
methods wliich I shall now explain. 

B. Method of free alimentation of a few individuMs taken as types. 
The method followed by Forster^ Hock, C. Voit, Smolensky, 
etc., to determine the ration of maintenance and its average com- 
position, consists in studying the ordinary daily feeding of a few 
individuals specially chosen as types, hving in relatively simple con- 
ditions, in a state of perfect health and not varjdngjOr very little,in 
weight ; to give an account of the quantity and the nature of the 
foods which they consume in order to remain in this state of equiH- 
brium and health, then to deduct from these observations, made 
under conditions as well defined as possible, the quantities of 
each of the necessary ahmentary principles for the maintenance 
of health, and eventually to generahze the observations thus made. 
To this method I shall raise, as an objection, the influences that 
every individual introduces into his food, willingly or not. To 
counterbalance the chances or the possible caprice of these per- 
sonal regimes, it would be necessary that an observation should 
be made of a great number of people at the same time and for a 
considerable period. In a word, the study of alimentation con- 
fined to the observation of a too small number of persons with 
whom the weights, the state of actual health, that of the reserves 
or deficits, origin, habits, age, suggestion or preoccupation, of 
experience, etc., can do much to vary the needs, all these causes 
expose one to errors of appreciation which one would only be 
able to get rid of by means resulting from very numerous trials, 

» Zeitsch f. Biolog., Bd, IX, p, 381. 
19 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



even if the chosen individuals responded well to the average type, 
a condition always very difficult to estabHsh. 

Be that as it may, from the point of view of the fundamental 
alimentary principles of the daily ration of maintenance, the 
numbers which have been obtained by this method are as 
follows : 

NUTBITIVE PkINCIPLES CONTAINED IN THE REGIME OF MAINTENANCE OF 

A FEW Average Individuals ob Groups of Individuals submitted 
TO A Generous Diet. 





Nutritive Principles. 




Subjects. 






C bo- 


Authors. 




Albumin. 


Fats. 


hydrates. 






grms. 


grms. 


grms. 




Young doctor 


127 


89 


362 


Forster 


„ ,, 


134 


102 


292 


„ 


Man of 25 years 


116 


68 


345 




English citizen 


130 


95 


325 


jj 


English workman (work very 


132 


90 


450 


» 


moderate) 










English workman (not occupied) 


90 


80 


285 


„ 


German workman (70 kgrms.) 


137 


72 


352 


C. Voit 


(at rest) 










Doctor (48 years) 


92 


61 


235 


Beaunis 


English doctor (25 years) . 


108 


77 


378 


Hock 


A workman of the South of France 


85 


50 


378 


A. Gautier 


at rest, 29 years, 67 kg. (wine 










not included) 










Lawyers, professors, savants of 


112 


80 


305 


Atwater 


the United States (11 observa- 










tions) 










Men and women sedentary or 


100 


— 


— 


,, 


working very moderately 










Two poor workmen's famiUes at 


80 


95 


308 ( 
269 ( 


Atwater 


Pittsburg 






Beneke 


Doctors, Professors, lawyers 


110 


102 


Ranke 


(German) average 










Swedish doctor weighing 60-7 


995 


103 


299 


Siven 


kgrms. 










Danish doctor (37 years) 73-5 


135 


140 


250 


Juergensen 


kgrms. 










Doctor weighing 62-5 kgrms. 


90 


79 


285 


Beneke 


(German) 










Russian family diet .... 


100 


443 


470 


Smolensky 


Students of Padua, easy circum- 


104 


50-4 


351 


Serafini and 


stances 








Z agate 


Average .... 


110 


80-9 


317 1 





If, as in our calculation of the average consumption of Paris, 
we add to these numbers the alcohol (not estimated by the pre- 
ceding authors), which I have placed at about 40 grms. per day 
in whatever form it may be, which corresponds to about 80 
grms. of glucose, the average number of 3176 grms. of carbo- 
hydrates obtained becomes 397 "6 grms, 

20 



r METHODS TO ESTABLISH NORMAL ALIMENTATION 

In spite of the great errors in tlie numbers furnished by this 
method (errors which are enough to prove its insufficiency), 
we see that the average to which it leads for the weights and 
proportions of the albuminous principles, fats and carbo-hydrates 
of the daily ration of maintenance of the adult at rest, differs 
very little from ours. 

C. Method of study of normal alimentation founded on the pre- 
servation of nutritive equilibrium. A third method, certainly the 
most rational in appearance, consists in feeding a certain number 
of average healthy individuals in such a fashion that what they 
lose in nitrogen and carbon from their total dejections may be 
almost equivalent to their alimentary gains. If under these 
conditions the state of health and the weight of the body remain 
almost constant, and if in the period considered, the weights of 
the carbon and nitrogen lost and gained are approximately 
balanced, we can admit that the composition of the subject 
experimented upon has remained the same and that the needs of 
his organism have been exactly represented by the ahmentary 
deposits made at the same time with a small correction which we 
will now explain. In these conditions we are able to substitute 
for one individual principle of the ration under observation 
others of known weights and find out if they are equivalent, the 
equivalence being demonstrated by the maintenance of equili- 
brium, the weight of the subject and also by a like production of 
caloric or mechanical energy in the two cases. 

Concerning the measure of the elements of calculation of this 
nutritive balance, detailed explanations wiU be given later (see 
Chap. VII). For the moment we will only reason according to 
numerical results. 

Take for instance a subject who, after some trials and modifica- 
tions in his ahmentary ration, has lost by the total of his excre- 
tions, during a period of three to four days, nearly the same quan- 
tity of nitrogen and carbon as that which he absorbs by this food. 
Let us suppose that the calculation has given us for one day : 

Nitrogen. Carbon. 

Losses in f^y """'^ 17-5 grms. 9-5 grms. 

24 ho rq 1 ^y *^® excretions . . . 1-5 ,, 50 „ 

(By respiration, perspiration . . 00 „ 260-4 „ 

Total 

Gain in / ^ i^-^ g^"^«- ^J f bumin . 

24 hours I ^* » °^ *^*^ 

1^324 „ of carbo-hydrates . 

Total 18 grms. 256-8 grms. 

The subject under observation has then lost in twenty-four 
hours : 

Nitrogen = 19 grms. — 18 grms. = 1 grm., and 
Carbon =274-9 grms. — 256-8 grms. = 18-1 grms. 
21 



190 grms. 
Nitrogen. 


274-9 grms. 
Carbon 


1 8 grms. 
0-0 „ 


61-5 grms 
413 „ 


00 „ 


1640 „ 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The nitrogen having been borrowed from decompositions of the 
albuminoid substances, these latter containing 16 per cent., the 
excess of 1 grm. of nitrogen lost besides that of the foods, corre- 
sponds then to 6" 25 grms. of albumin consumed per day at the 
expense of the tissues of the subject under observation. But 
these 625 grms. of lost albumin correspond, as we know, to 336 
grms. of carbon,! [^ follows that of the 181 grms. of carbon lost 
by the subject in the course of twenty-four hours, 3- 36 grms. 
may be attributed to the destruction of his own proteid substances 
and that 18- 1 — 336 := 1465 grms. are derived from his fats, for 
these are the only principles not nitrogenous capable of destroy- 
ing themselves and wliich animals are rich in. But according 
to the average composition of fatty bodies (766"5 per cent, of car- 
bon), these 14*65 grms. of carbon correspond to 1912 grms. of fat. ^ 

It follows from this calculation that the individual experi- 
mented upon has consumed in the twenty -four hours considered : 



Albuminoids 
Fats . . . 
Carbo-hydrates 



Borrowed from the 
Body. 



Brought by Foods. ' ^"owea irom me ^^t^j 



112'5grms. I 6-25 grms. 

540 „ i 1912 „ 

324 „ I — 



118-75 grms. 
73 12 „ 
324 



The ration of maintenance then, for the subject under experi- 
ment, has been, not albuminoids 11 2' 5 grms. ; fats 54 ; carbo- 
hydrates 324, but albuminoids 118-75 grms. ; fats 73' 1 grm. ; 
carbo-hydrates 324 grms. 

If, instead of losing substance, the subject was, on the 
contrary, enriched by nitrogen and carbon, one would deduct 
proportionally from the apparent ration the quantities of 
albuminoids and fats stored up, in this second case, by the tissues. 

This method of determining the nutritive balance-sheet has its 
advantages and its inconveniences. The advantages are that, 
on the same subject, one can measure exactly the quantities of 
foods utihzed and the weights of proteid or fatty substances 
accumulated or consumed in the tissues. One can study the 
replacement of one substance by another, of meat for example by 
gelatine, fat or starch, of ternary bodies by alcohol. We can also 
by this method take account of the effects of substances termed 
" economizing," such as coffee, tea, kola, and aromatic matters. 
But this method also has its defects, which are chiefly technical. 
Its compUcation is such that one can only make the many deter- 
minations of which it permits by means of delicate and costly 
apparatus (respiratory bells of Regnault and Reiset, apparatus 
of Reiset, Pettenkoffer and Voit ; and Atwater's Respiratory Cal- 

^ Albumin contains 52 1 grms. per cent, of carbon. 
2 The weight of carbon multiplied by 1,307 gives the weight of the fat. 

22 



COMPARATIVE RESULTS OF THE THREE METHODS 

orimeter, see Chap. VII). The method forces one also (and this 
is the principal cause of its indefiniteness) to limit oneself to the 
study of a small number of subjects, chosen somewhat arbitrarily, 
with the risk of falling on special cases, of acquired or hereditary 
habits which cause the average to vary so greatly that the 
number of observations is necessarily restricted because of the 
multiplicity of the determinations and of the complication of the 
experiments. 

With regard to this third method, we must notice also that it 
is not quite certain that the total nitrogen is found again in the 
excretions, urine and faeces of the subjects examined, and that a 
part may under certain conditions be lost in a nitrogenous state, 
free or otherwise, by the lung and the skin. It is true that the 
experiments of Bidder and Schmidt, Ranke, Pettenkoffer 
and Voit (Zeitsch. f. Biolog., t. XVI, p. 508), and lastly 
Atwater, have estabUshed that in repose, at least, the greater 
part of the nitrogen is found again in the urine and faeces. But 
Seegen and Nowak (Pfliiger Arch., t. XIX, p. 347, and t. XXVI, 
p. 292) have asserted the contrary, and 'or myself I shall raise 
the objection that the fact that nitrogen is not set free by 
perspiration and expiration requires to be confirmed, above all 
for the working individual, i All the nitrogen lost by these last 
processes and that lost by the epidermis and the hair escapes in 
the calculation of the respiratory balance and is counted as 
accumulated by the subject. 

Lastly, and this is a serious cause of indefiniteness, it has been 
recognized that it is possible to vary in a sufficiently large degree the 
relative assessment of the foods which maintain the nitrogenous 
and carbonated equilibrium according as the subject is fat or 
lean, and according to the state and the nature of the reserves 
formerly acquired by him. Whilst preserving the nitrogenous 
equilibrium one is able, in the same individual, to change in the 
regime the relations between the albuminoids and the ternary 
bodies, an excess of the latter exercising on the former an economic 
action and vice versa. So that the proportions between the 
fundamental principles of ahmentation which allow us to preserve 
a nitrogenous and carbonated equihbrium, can vary very much 
according to the actual state of the subject. 

However that may be, by this third method, called nitrogenous 
and carbonated equilibrium, the average of different determinations 
has given, as the daily average ration of man undertaking only 
very light labour, or none at all : 

• One will see that the urea augments from 2 to 4 grms. per day during 
work, while the alimentary ration increases from 25 to 35 grms. of albu- 
minoids. In repose the excretion of nitrogen through the skin and lungs 
appears to be almost a negligible quantity. 

23 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Albumin 

Fats 

Carbo-hydrates 



110 grms. 
56 „ 
425 „ * 



If we now compare the means given by each of the three 
methods which we have just analysed we shall have : 





Alimentation cal- 
culated according 

to the average 
Parisian 

consumption.2 


Alimentation cal- 
culated according 
to the free choice 
of some healthy 
subjects as types. 


Albumin 

Fats .... 

Carbo-hydrates . 


102 
56-5 
400 


110-2 

80-9 

3970 



Alimentation 

according to the 

balance of nitrogen 

and carbon. 



110 

66 

425 



Of these three averages, the first seems to me to be the most 
accurate, that which has the greater weight, on account of twe 
enormous number of individuals upon which it is based. How- 
ever, if we take count of the other two, which differ only very 
httle from this one, we arrive at this definite conclusion, that in a 
state of rest, the average adult in health, has need for his daily 
maintenance of the following organic principles : 

Per day ^ 
Albuminoids ........ 107-3 

Fats 64-5 

Carbo-hydrates ....... 407*5 

Such is, in absolute and relative quantities, according to cal- 
culations which we can consider as very nearly accurate, the weight 
of the ahmentary organic principles necessary every day to the 
average adult man of the races of Europe and North America, 
to keep himself healthy whilst furnishing only a minimum amount 

1 The average figure given by German authors is 345 grms., but in order 
to compare their calculations with mine it is necessary to take into account 
the alcohol absorbed not reckoned by them, and which for 1,250 cc. of beer 
daily at 4 per cent, (average quantity) represents 40 grms. of alcohol 
corresponding to 80 grms. of sugar. 

2 According to Pfliiger and Bohland, Bleibtreu (Pfliiger's Arch., t.XXXVI, 
p. 165, and t. XXXVIII, p. 1 ) the average of total nitrogen found in the lu-ine 
during 24 hours of 99 adults (ordinary diet) has been 14"95 grms. We 
shall see later that with a mixed diet, 92 per cent, only of alimentary albu- 
minoid substances penetrate into the blood and are made use of. To 
calculate the quantity of alimentary nitrogen which has been received by 
these adults it will be necessary to multiply 1495 grms. by the fraction 
100/92, which brings the nitrogen introduced by the foods to 16*25 grms. 
These weights multiplied by the factor 6*25 give (as we have already seen) 
the corresponding quantity of alimentary albuminoids in 24 hours. It is 
then, according to this average, 101*56 grms., a number which approaches 
singularly near to the 102 grms. which we found in giving an account of 
the entire alimentation of Paris. It is a remarkable confirmation of our 
average. 

* Calculated for 100 albuminoids 



100 ; fats 61 ; carbo-hydrates 371. 



24 



COMPARATIVE RESULTS OF THE THREE METHODS 

of work or none at all. He needs every day about 107 grms. 
of albuminoids, 65 grms. of fats and 407 grms. of sugar or 
starch, a part of which^(about one-fifth) _can be replaced by half 
its weight of alcohol, as the observation of Paris proves, and as 
we shaU fully estabhsh later on.^ 

All the conclusions hitherto arrived at relate to the adult 
man. For the woman who is smaller, less heavy, and relatively 
richer in fat, we generally admit that her nutritive needs 
represent about four-fifths of those of the man. They will then 
be for her, on an average and per day : 

Albuminoids ....... 86 grms. 

Fats 52 „ 

Carbo-hydrates ....... 326 „ 

The proofs of the preceding averages, whatever may be the 
methods by which we have obtained them, are all hable to some 
objection :^through atavism, habit, pleasure, it seems that one 
eats a httle too much ; and in consequence the averages obtained 
may all be^sUghtly exaggerated, because of this abuse which has 
become part of our customs. In an interesting memoir which 
appeared in the Bulletin General de therapeutique (November, 
1902), Dr. Bordet tries to prove that 60 to 80 grms. of albumin- 
oids, 50 to 60 grms. of fats, 235 to 300 grms. of carbo-hydrates 
can suffice daily as a ration of maintenance for a man of ordinary 
weight ; so that our ahmentation has come to exceed the neces- 
sary and reasonable hmits by about one-third. Prof. Maurel 
(of Toulouse) will accept a very shghtly higher figure. In support 
of his opinion, M, Bordet states the case of a manager of a large 
industrial business, m excellent health, weighing 80 kilos, and Hving 
for the last twenty years (he is now 70) on the following ration : 

Morning. — Cup of tea, 20 grms. of sugar : 15-20 grms. of milk ; a roll 
(100 grms.). 

Midday. — 60-70 grms. of meat ; 100 grms. of vegetables (in grain) or 
green ; 100 grms. of bread ; 15-20 grms. of cheese ; a cup of coffee with 
20 grms. of sugar. 

Evening. — The same as midday with soup added and coffee omitted. 
800 ce. to 1 htre of vinous water in 24 hours. 

The calculation of this ration amounts to : 

Albuminoids ,,...,. 63 grms. 

Fats . . 53 „ 

Carbo-hydrates . . ' . . . . . 245 „ 

To these facts I raise the objection that peculiarities and excep- 

^ With regard to alcoholic drinks we shall show the theoretical possi- 
bility and sometimes the necessity of this partial replacement of carbo- 
hydrates by their isodynamic weights of alcohol. For the moment we shall 
limit ourselves by drawing this conclusion from the observation of the 
facts of alimentation and particularly of the alimentation of Paris. 

25 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

tions do not make the rule ; that, if it is true that some people 
can Uve and be healthy with the rations of a hermit, if it is good 
and logical to advise in general to reduce the regime rather 
than exaggerate it, we do not live any the less with the con- 
stitution that heredity and the needs of our race have transmitted 
to us. Is there much exaggeration in the modern habits of 
feeding ? Let us observe that, according to the facts and num- 
bers that I have given above, the same nutritive balances result 
from the examination of the diet of the most diverse populations ; 
that, the needs of the greater number, i.e. workmen and peasants, 
are generally not stimulated but reduced by the moderate 
resources that manual labour procures for them ; to such a degree 
that the great majority receive only absolute necessities. There 
is certainly some exaggeration in the habits of those who are not 
limited by the bare necessities of daily life. In the case of these, 
the hygienist and the doctor might plead for sobriety ; but even 
for them, it would hardly be possible for these habits to disappear 
from one day to another without immediate discomfort. For 
certain persons at ease, for a few working populations accus- 
tomed, however, to good feeding, a little alimentary exaggeration 
constitutes almost a necessity, and as soon as the article of diet 
which seemed instinctively indispensable is diminished, the 
individual suffers, sometimes wastes away, does less work or seeks 
a temporary pick-me-up in alcohoMc drinks. 

We shall observe that the three kinds of fundamental princi- 
ples of current alimentation, e.g. albuminoids, fats, carbo- 
hydrates, do not coincide in the normal proportions aforemen- 
tioned in the study of the nutritive balance-sheet in any of the 
natural foods taken separately : neither meat, bread nor milk 
would be sufficient in this case to satisfy us. The fundamental 
alimentary principles are included indeed in the following state- 
ment that I have calculated for 100 per cent, of albuminoids : 

Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


100 


59 


100 


28 


100 


65 


100 


99 


100 


52-5 


100 


12 



Average normal alimentation ... I 100 59 385 

Muscular flesh i 100 28 0-3 

Bread 100 65 750 

Milk 100 ^ 99 118 

Milk and bread in equal parts . . . 100 52-5 434 

1 part of meat and 3 parts of bread . . 100 12 562 



Thus neither milk nor bread nor a diet composed of bread and 
meat, in whatever proportions, can provide us with the funda- 
mental alimentary principles under normal relations deduced 
from the observation of facts. Alone milk and bread, taken in 
equal parts, satisfy the requisite relation between proteid matters 

26 



CONSTITUTION OF RATIONAL ALIMENTATION 

and ternary alimentary substances. It is well known besides 
that we can live almost indefinitely on bread and milk. 

It remains now to ask if the three kinds of nutritive organic 
principles that one finds in all complete and free alimentation are 
really indispensable, if their association in these proportions, 
determined by the examination of facts, is not a little fortuitous, 
and if certain of these principles could not make up the one for 
the other. The isodynamics or equivalence of food is a very 
important question which will be treated farther on. For the 
moment we will simply note that in four countries — France, Ger- 
many, England and the United States — where alimentary customs 
are sufficiently different, physiologists and modern hygienists have 
all arrived, by methods often very dissimilar, at averages which 
agree so well and at almost identical relations between the quan- 
tities of the fundamental alimentary principles which enter into 
the ordinary ration of a healthy man. For 100 parts of albumin- 
oids, experience has shown us that 50 to 68 grms. of fatty sub- 
stance and 366 to 386 grms. of actual carbo-hydrates (alcohol 
not included) are necessary, or adding up the ternary compounds, 
a little more than 4J times the weight of the albuminoids is 
needed. 

But a detailed study of the alimentary ration enables us to go 
still farther : in the alimentation of a Parisian, out of 102 grms. 
of albuminoids, 56*3 grms. or 55 per cent, are furnished by the ani- 
mal kingdom and 46"7 or 45 per cent, by the vegetable kingdom. 
In the nourishment of four vigorous and hale artisans, Uffelmann 
found that the animal albumin was to the vegetable in the pro- 
portion of one to two. In the cases of two labourers at light 
work, C. Voit observed that 47 '5 per cent, of albumin was furnished 
by meat and 52" 5 per cent, by bread. One can then make the 
general statement that satisfactory relative proportions of flesh, 
bread and vegetables are those which provide us with, from 40 
to 60 per cent, of albuminoids by means of animal food and 60 
to 40 per cent by means of vegetable food. Every regime which 
introduces more than 60 per cent, of its nitrogen in an animal 
form is too rich in flesh and disposes to arthritis, gout and eczema, 
etc. ; to these many morbid states it exposes all those at least 
who do not correct the excess of foods or muscular flesh by suffi- 
cient muscular exercise, especially those who lead a sedentary or 
cloistered life or who overtax the mind. 

We have already remarked, a propos of the average alimenta- 
tion of Paris, that foods of animal origin form in weight about the 
fourth of those of vegetable origin, aHmentary drinks included, 
and a third if we do not include in this calculation wine and beer, 
In this alimentation which has given us these proofs, we find 
then for 100 parts : 

27 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Foods of animal origin . . . . .23 parts 

Foods of vegetable origin (bread, vegetables, green or 

dry, etc.) , . . . . . . 44 „ 

Wine (650 cc. per day) 33 „ 

100 parts 

These relations would be a little different if the wine were 
replaced by a quantity of beer or cider of an equivalent ahmentary 
value. We shall see later on how the relations wliich we have 
just experimentally estabhshed can be usefully modified, and in 
what cases. 



28 



IV 

MINERAL SALTS NECESSABY TO THE HUMAN SYSTEM — ^PRINCIPAL 
ACCESSORIES, USELESS OR HARMFUL 

MINERAL SALTS NECESSARY TO THE SYSTEM 

CHLORIDE of sodium, the phosphates of potash, soda, Hme 
and magnesia, the sulphates, the oxides of iron, with a 
httle silica, fluorides, etc., are found in a constant manner in the 
residue left by the combustion of our organs and hquids. Their 
elements : chlorine, phosphorus, sulphur, potassium, sodium, 
calcium, magnesium, iron, siUcon, fluorine, etc., united amongst 
themselves and to the other organic' matters of the protoplasms 
and humours, form, so to speak, the mineral skeleton of the con- 
stitutive protoplasms functioning in the cells. These mineral 
principles are then absolutely indispensable to the tissues. 

Volkmann, in the corpse of a man weighing 62-5 kilogrammes, 
found the weight of the ashes to be : 

The skeleton ...... 2,247-3 grms. 

The soft parts 468-3 „ 



Total 2,715-6 grms. 

The total weight of the mineral compounds exceeds then 4-3 
per cent, of the weight of the whole human body, and the alkaline 
or earthy salts form about 0-76 per cent, of the soft tissues. The 
bones and cartilages contain five-sixths of the total of the mineral 
salts of the body ; whilst the whole of the soft or Uquid parts do 
not give more than 450 to 460 grms. of saline substances. 

Evidently it is necessary that we should find in our different 
foods all these mineral matters in suflicient quantity and under 
assimilable forms, for the system is continually impoverishing 
itself of them by its excretions, particularly by the urine. 

These sahne materials exist, besides, in different quantities in 
the several organs, but their proportion varies very little in the 
organ of one individual and that of another. In the blood, the 
salts vary from 0-9 to 1-3 per cent. ; in the muscles, from 0-9 to 
1-2 ; in the fresh bone, from 34 to 37 per cent, of fresh matter. 

29 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The following table indicates the proportions and the nature 
of the mineral substances entering into the composition of some 
of the principal tissues and humours of the system. 

Mineral Matters Coktained in the Principal Parts. 
(For 1,000 fresh parts; except bone.) 





Muscle 

of the 

Mamniifers. 


Nervous 
Substance. 


Dry 
Bones. 


Hepatic 
Gland. 


Globules of 
1000 cc. 
of blood. 


Plasma of 
1000 cc. 
of blood. 


General 
Lymph. 


Mineral nu 


it- 












ters in 10( 
grms. of tl 


)0 

le grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


For 1000 cc.of blood. 
Total 


grms. 


fresh sub 
stance con 


9-12 

- ' 


2-7 


620-690 


9-11 


7'5-10-12 grms. 


7-47 


taining : 


1 












Chlorine 


0-5-0-7 


0-4 


0-&-0-7 


0- 25-0-42 


036-0-9 


1-7-1-4 


308 


P205 . 


3-4-5 


85-14 


196-247 


502-4-27 


0-69-0-65 


0-71-2-2 


018 


S03 . 


2-2 


0-14 


0-20 


009-0-092 


— 


— 


009 


Si02 . 


— 








0027-0018 





— 


— 


K20 . 


3-39 


7 1-2- 12 


— 


2-52-3-47 


1-6-1-4 


015-0 20 


0-16 


Na20 


0-4-0-7 


075-1-3 


— 


1-46-M3 


0-24-0-65 


1-66-1 9 


3-07 


CaO . 


0- 9-0- 18 


003 


270-500 


0-36-003 


0-19-0-25 


006-008 


}015 


MgO . 


0-4 


0065-0-75 


4-6 


002-0007 


007 


002-005 


Fe203 


003-002 


004-012 


— 


0- 27-0- 17 


0-77 


006 


— 


C02 . 


— 


0-21-0-33 


32-45 


— 


— 


— 


0-50 



These mineral elements exist in our tissues in part imder the 
same forms under which they ehminate themselves by urine, 
faeces, epidermic desquamation, etc., in part, and especially, in the 
state of complex organic combinations, Uke sulphur in the albu- 
minoids, phosphorus in the nucleins, the lecithins and the tetra- 
methylenephosphoric acid, etc. ; or like magnesium in the 
nervous tissue and in chlorophyll, iron in the haemoglobin of the 
blood and in the hematogen of the egg. 

Indispensable to functioning, these mineral elements are then 
necessary to the life of the cell, and ahmentation ought to be 
able to supply us with them under assimilable forms and in 
sufficient quantities in the same measure as it furnishes us with 
organic principles, albuminoids, fats or starches. 

J. Forster has besides estabhshed that mice, pigeons, dogs fed 
with an excess of meat which has been drained of its salts by 
hot water, even if one adds to this meat, together or separately, 
starch, sugar, and the necessary fats, do not Uve beyond twenty to 
thirty days. Deprived of mineral matters, these animals behave 
almost as if they had been absolutely starved. 

We ehminate in twenty-four hours by the kidneys, perspiration 
and the faeces, the following quantities of mineral matter : 



30 



I 



NECESSARY MINERAL MATTERS 





Urine during 


Feecal Material 


Perspiration 

during 

24 hours. 


Aver- 




24 hours. 


during 24 hours.i 


age 
per day. 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Water 


1,300-1,360 


100-119 


600-750 


— 


Total saline material . 


17-3-21 


435-6 


1-3-20 


25-9 


These saline materials 










contain — 










Chlorine 


4-9-7-2 


0015-0035 


1-12 


7-4 


Phosphoric anhydride 


16-3 


0-76-0-82 


Traces 


3-05 


(P205) 










Sulphuric anhydride (SO'') 


1-8-2-8 


0060-017 


0005 


300 


Silicic anhydride (SiO^) . 


0003-0004 


0- 17-0 35 


— 


0-26 


Carbonic anhydride (CO^) 


— 


005 


— 


— 


Potassium oxide (K^O) . 


lft-31 


0-75-0-30 


0178 


2-88 


Sodium „ {Na20) 


416-5-9 


0-25-0-35 


0-80 


5-60 


(Calcium ,, (CaO) . 


0-25-0-36 


0-65-0-70 


Traces 


0-85 


Magnesium ,, (MgO) . 


0-56 





„ 


0-56 




0004-00132 


0023-00403 


— 


0-004 


Average weight of mineral 


19 -6 grms. 


4-3 grms. 


20 grms. 




material in 24 hours 











Of these principles some are eliminated just as they existed in 
the plasmas and tissues ; others as SO^, P^ 0^, MgO, Fe^O^, and 
perhaps SiO^, arise either from hydrolytic divisions of the 
constituent principles, or from the oxidation of sulphur, 
phosphorus, silicon, magnesium, iron, etc., closely united to 
certain organic principles. Others are excreted under complex 
forms insufficiently determined, by loss of hair from the head, 
from the epidermis, and by the extractive matters of the urine, etc. 

It is thus that, be it in the state of mineral matters properly 
so called, or under the form of mixed compounds, we lose every 
day from 24 to 28 grms. (26 grms. on an average) of mineral 
substances, about half composed of sodium chloride, the rest 
being represented especially by phosphate and sulphate of potas- 
sium and by the corresponding salts of soda, lime and magnesia 
in a far less proportion. Each day 1-2 grms. to 1-5 grms. of sul- 
phur and an average of 1-1 grms. of phosphorus are thus ejected 
as mineral salts. To these salts it is necessary to add some milh- 
grammes of iron and silicon and some hundredths or thousandths 
of a milligramme of arsenic, copper, manganese, iodine, bromine, 
boron, etc. These last elements are eliminated thanks especially 
to epithelial desquamation or by the hair of the body and head. 

Our daily alimentary ration ought then to be sufficient and 
varied enough to bring to us the complex ensemble of these mineral 
foods, and in assimilable forms. 



' According to Bischoff and Voit, and for the faeces of dogs ; but tlie 
quantity of matter and of water here calculated are those of human faeces 
after Wehsarg. 

2 According to Magnier de la Source. 

3 According to Lapicque (C.R. Soc. Biolog., April 3,' 1896). 

31 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

It is evident that in the normal state it provides us with them, 
at least for the major part, since the preceding statistics are 
founded on the observation of the excretions of the healthy 
adult provided that he feeds himself in an average way. So 
that in order to estabhsh the importance of the mineral dis- 
similation, we have only affirmed definitely that which occurs 
in ordinary ahmentation which may vary perhaps very much. 
But we know to-day that potash and the phosphates form 
an integral and necessary part of all the vegetable or 
animal cells ; chloride of sodium, of aU the plasmas ; iron, of the 
globules of the blood ; iodine, of the thyroid gland ; arsenic, of 
the ectodermic tissues ; bromine, of the skin and hair, etc. These 
elements are specific, locaHzed and consequently indispensable, 
whence, still upholding this point of view, the necessity and 
the role of a variety of foods. It explains the instinct which 
makes us have ^recourse to the many ahmentary sources each 
one of which provides us with some of the elements which, like 
magnesium, manganese, iron, arsenic, iodine, bromine, sihcon, 
etc., are far from being widespread and under acceptable forms. 

We will enlarge further on, in a chapter specially devoted to 
this important subject, upon the composition, origin and working 
of the principal minerals of the economy ; but it seems, at this stage, 
instructive to state what is the quantity of ordinary saHne 
materials which average feeding, such as we have defined it for 
Paris in particular (p. 11), brings to us. The following table gives 
the results of a calculation which I have made on this subject : 



Mineral Matter in an Average Daily Allowance of Food. 



Kind of Food. 



Bread and dough .... 

Meats 

Milk 

Eggs 

Fresh fruits 

Fresh vegetables .... 

Dry vegetables 

Potatoes 

Cheese 

Sugar 

Butter 

Wine (calculated at 10 per cent.) 
Drinking water 



Weight per day. 



420 grms. 
216 „ 
213 „ 

24 „ 

70 „ 
250 „ 

40 „ 

100 „ 

81 „ 

40 „ 

28 „ 
567 „ 
1 litre 



Corresponding 
Mineral Matter. 

3- 10 grms. 

2-48 „ 

133 „ 

022 „ 

0-65 „ 

2-70 „ 

110 „ 

100 „ 

0-22 „ 

025 „ 

002 „ 

1-54 „ 

0-30 „ 



Per day 14-81 grms. 



To these 1481 grms. of mineral materials conveyed by the 
daily foods and drinking water, one must add 8 to 10 grms. of 
salt which we mix daily and directly with our dishes, wliich 

32 



1 



ACCESSORY ALIMENTARY ELEMENTS 

makes a total weight of 24 grms. of saline materials. On an 
average, as we have seen, we excrete of the latter 25"9 grms. by 
the urine, perspiration and epidermis, etc. The small difference is 
due to the fact that a part of the organic sulphur and phosphorus 
is lost by combustion owing to a small error of appreciation. 

One wiU observe in the average allowance of food, the enor- 
mous portion of mineral materials of vegetable origin. Of the 
14'3 grms. of salts and saHfiable substances introduced by aH- 
ments (besides the salt added), vegetables furnish us with 10"24 
grms., or 69 per cent. Being given the considerable quantity 
of organic phosphorus and sulphur which we derive from this 
source, and the part played by the alkaline and earthy bases 
with which plants also provide us in the form of combustible 
acid salts, salts from which the tissues and plasmas especially 
take their alkahnity, as will be shown later, one sees the 
important part which, from tliis point of view, foods of vegetable 
origin play in the process of ahmentation. 

Plants bring us especially potassium, magnesium and phos- 
phorus, very httle chlorine and sodium, lastly a quantity of lime 
which is scarcely a tenth part of the weight of the alkaline bases. 

We shall again refer with care to the part which each of these 
mineral elements plays in the animal economy. At present it is 
sufficient to show in what proportion they enter into general 
alimentary statistics. 

ACCESSORY ALIMENTARY ELEMENTS — DOUBTFUL OR HURTFUL 
SUBSTANCES. 

As fundamental alimentary elements we find, as we have said, 
in our food stuffs, as in our tissues, albuminous materials phos- 
phorated and non-phosphorated, fats, carbo-hydrates and similar 
substances, water and the salts of which we have just spoken. 
But one must not think that all the albuminoid bodies, all the 
fatty elements, all the sugars and other carbo-hydrates are suitable 
for our food. Everything is ahmentary which, penetrating into 
the digestive tract, can be transformed into constitutive elements 
identical with those of our tissues, or everything which is to pro- 
vide us with disposable energy after having entered the blood. 

Many albuminous substances do not possess these aptitudes, 
or only possess them very relatively and only in connexion with 
certain very speciaUzed tissues. Thus, the ossein of bone, the 
chondromucoid of cartilage, elastin, etc., elements digestible and 
partly soluble in the intestine, appear very feebly suitable to 
nourish the Uving protoplasms, at any rate as far as man is 
concerned. The fact is, that these substances existing almost 
exclusively in a few special tissues, as bony tissues, cartilaginous, 
conjunctive, fibro-elastic, etc., tissues whose nutrition is rather slow, 

33 D 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

are not transformable in the system into ordinary albumins (serin, 
musculin, fibrin, etc.) or are not so without loss or great difficulty. 
A certain quantity of gelatin can be absorbed and utilized, but 
the greater part of this substance, if one consumes it in abundance, 
is finally destroyed or only serves, after the manner of fat or 
starchy matters, to protect the albuminoids of the ordinary tissues, 
of the muscular flesh, and of the blood, etc., albuminoids which it 
does not seem able to appreciably reproduce. Grelatin can even 
prevent the loss of fat ; it permits the animal to perform its 
functions with a less ration of albuminous substances, but it can- 
not be entirely substituted for these, even if one gives it in 
super- abundance. Nevertheless, so long as it does not exceed 
the sixth or fifth of the absorbed albumins, one can consider 
gelatin as nearly equivalent to albumin, at least for young 
animals, as I have shown. 

Of the other albuminoids such as mucin, conjunctin, keratin, 
chitin, elastin, etc., man does not seem able to assimilate them. 
This shows clearly that it is not sufficient that a substance, even 
digestible or soluble in the intestine, Hke elastin, should be nutritive 
in order to form part of our tissues. 

The nucleoproteids which especially form the nucleus of our 
cells, and the cyclo-proteids of the protoplasms, are they assimil- 
able ? They hydrolyze in contact with the pancreatic and 
intestinal juices, and a part of their phosphoric acid is found again 
in the urine.^ It appears then that they ought to contribute 
to the formation of the phosphorated albuminoids of the system. 
But the proof is not yet completely estabhshed. I shall say just 
the same of the lecithins and the jecorines ; nevertheless, their 
presence in the yolk of the egg and in fat appears fairly to indicate 
that they play an ahmentary part, at least for young cells, in the 
process of formation. 

The nitrogenous products of the decompositions of the albu- 
minoids, animal and vegetable, such as the complex amides, 
asparagins, lecithins, puric bases, extractive matters of soup, etc., 
appear some to be indifferent, others active ; these latter, no 
longer in the manner of ordinary foods, but hke veritable nervous 
stimulants. We shall come back to them when on the subject of 
nerve foods and condiments. 

Some decomposable matters whether nitrogenous or not, pro- 
duced by certain cells, are transported by the blood and react 
like active ferments or as modifiers of the assimilable substances. 
Others, resulting from the division of much more complex bodies, 
or of a kind of dissimilation of certain tissues, help to the fulfil- 
ment of different functions : such is the case of glycogen and 

1 Gumlich Zeitsch. f. Physiolog., Bd. XVIII., p. 508 ; , Popoff, ihid, 
p. 53. 

34 



ASSIMILABLE ELEMENTS 

glucose formed particularly in the liver by the division of its 
special materials, and which, poured into the blood, serve to con- 
tract the muscles and to maintain animal heat. The fats produced 
in the cells have almost the same origin and the same destiny. 

In general, the excretory matters not only are not aHmentary 
whatever their composition may be, but they even liinder the 
functions as soon as they accumulate in the tissues ; such as 
urea, the puric bodies (uric acid, allantoin, sarcin, guanin, carnin, 
etc.) the leucomaines (choUn, neurin, protoamines, etc.) ; amiro- 
acids (glycocol, leucin, taurin), indol, indogen, etc. 

Among the non-nitrogenous organic substances, the carbohy- 
drates are all far from being able to provide for human ahmenta- 
tion. The hgueous materials which the insect xylophagus eats, 
cellulose which nourishes the herbivora, the wool on wliich the 
larva of insects feed, etc., do not suit us, or at the least, as regards 
cellulose, for example, only assimilating very imperfectly and 
only certain kinds. Kniriem has observed, in himseK, that man 
only absorbs on an average 25 per cent, of the ceUulosic tissues 
of new formation (salad, fresh vegetables). Mucilages, gums 
do not seem suitable, or are only with great difficulty and partially 
fit to be utiUzed. It is generally thus with all the sugars, and carbo- 
hydrates, aldehydic or acetonic, as well as the corresponding 
alcohols which have per molecule a number of atoms of carbon 
which is not a multiple of three : tetroses or erythroses C*H^O*, 
pento3e3 C^H'•^0^ heptoses (7ff*0^ etc. (E. Fischer). 

The bodies called aromatic or cyclic are generally unassimil- 
able ; but certain of them can play the part of stimulants or, quite 
on the contrary, of inliibitors of the vital functions. Such are the 
aromatic alcohols, natural alkaloids, colouring matters, vegetable 
or animal, hydrocarbons, phenols, true essences, etc. 

As to ordinary alcohol, alcohol of wine and beer, we shall see 
farther on that it can supply the system almost entirely with the 
chemical energy which it contains in the latent state and which 
in consequence should be considered as aHmentary, although this 
may be an ahment of a very special order ; at the same time a 
producer of energy and a nerve stimulant. 

Vegetable or animal, the fats formed by the mixture of different 
ethers of glycerine (butyrin, margarin, stearin, olein, etc.) are 
all aHmentary. It is not the same of different bodies of a fatty 
kind but which have not glycerine as a foundation ; such as the 
ethers of spermaceti, those of cetylic alcohol obtained from Chinese 
wax or of melissic alcohol of bee's wax, etc. Although combustible 
and fatty, these bodies and their derivatives are not assimilable. 
With greater reason, the hydrocarbons properly so called 
(olefines, vaseHnes, etc.) are not assimilable. AU these bodies 
are incapable of being assimilated and of being converted into 
animal substances. 

35 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

We shall see, on the contrary, that the salts of the fatty acids and 
similar acids (acetates, butyrates, stearates, oleates, . . of 
potash, soda, hme, etc.) the citrates, malates, alkaline tartrates, 
etc., and the fatty acids themselves, substances which vegetables 
provide us with in sufficient abundance, fruits and some animal 
products, etc., are real foods. They become oxidized in the 
system in giving us caloric energy, whilst from their combustion 
arises carbonic acid,water and soluble carbonates or bi-carbonates, 
which alkalize the fluids and thus insure oxidation and the 
performance of the general functions. 



36 



I 



DIGESTIBILITY AND COEFFICIENT OF UTILIZATION OF FOODS — 
ASSIMILATION OF THE DIFFERENT NUTRITIVE PRINCIPLES 

IN the preceding chapters we have shown, both by statistics 
and calculations, what are the proportions and the nature 
of the principal organic and mineral materials which his daily 
food furnishes to man at rest. But in order to know the effective 
quantities which really reach our organs, whether as assimilable 
and plastic materials or as useful sources of energy, it is necessary 
to determine for each principle the percentage quantity which 
traverses the intestinal walls to be poured into the circulatory 
stream and reach the organs. 

DIGESTIBILTY OF THE ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

In passing through the digestive tube, the aUmentary materials 
undergo the action of the salivary ferments, likewise those of 
the stomach and intestine, and are transformed, but only in part, 
into substances fit to be reabsorbed by the intestine and to pene- 
trate into the lymphatics and the blood. These substances, 
from that time, are not yet assimilated but digested ; and one 
can for each aUment or alimentary principle measure this digesti- 
bihty by the inverse of the time which has been required to 
transform it into materials fit to traverse the intestinal walls. 

The comparison of the digestibihty of principles of the same 
kind is especially interesting : starches of different natures and 
origins, dextrins and special sugars, different fats, animal and 
vegetable oils ; albuminous principles originating from different 
organs ; aliments borrowed from animals or plants which have 
undergone certain preparations, such as for example meat — 
raw, boiled, roast, smoked, etc. 

It is necessary to distinguish between the digestibihty of the 
stomach and that of the intestine, the ferments of these two 
organs acting differently on each ahmentary principle ; that 
which happens in the first being in no way able to serve as a 
measure of that which takes place in the second. So, I will here 
only briefly refer to the ideas of Leube on digestibihty. Ex- 
amining hour by hour, by means of the gastric pump, the contents 
of the stomach, Leube classified the aliments according to the 
rapidity with which they passed from the stomach into the 

37 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

intestines. Broth, boiled eggs and biscuits formed the most 
digestible group. Whipped eggs, the flesh of fowl and pigeon 
stewed, brains, sweetbread, tapioca and semoUna soups con- 
stituted the second. Grated uncooked beef, minced ham, 
beefsteak lightly grilled, puree of potatoes, stale bread, cafe-au- 
lait, etc., the tliird. Fowl, pigeon, yoimg partridge roasted, 
cold roast beef, roast veal, eggs buttered or in omelettes, boiled 
fish, rice cooked in water, macaroni, spinach, baked apples, 
wliite or red wines diluted with water, formed the fourth group. 
All this appears to us very arbitrary. But who does not know 
that different foods are more or less digestible according to the 
particular stomach ; that there are those who digest milk with 
more difficulty than meat ; that raw meat is generally much 
better tolerated (provided that one swallows it without disgust 
and without chewing it) than boiled meat, fowl and especially 
pigeon ; that boiled fish is very often digested by convalescents 
who cannot bear beefsteak, eggs or macaroni ? I have known 
a lady who suffered from uncontrollable vomiting during preg- 
nancy, and having been prematurely deHvered, could not digest 
anything, after a compulsory diet extending over three weeks, 
except strawberries and cray£sh — each, it is true, in a small 
quantity. I have seen during the Siege of Paris, a young man 
taken with vomiting while fuUy and easily digesting horse-flesh 
pie, because a sorry jester suddenly declared that he had just 
been eating some rat from the sewer. Digestibility of foods, 
one has known for a long time, but especially since Pawlow's 
experiments, is largely influenced by stomachic reflexes, habits, 
and even, as one has just said, by the psychic states which accom- 
pany their digestion. 

Thus is explained the differences created by atavism and 
education. But idiosyncrasies put on one side, I think that in 
a healthy man, stomachs are on the average nearly the same in 
every country ; and that a Marseillais, a Parisian or a Flamand, 
if they had each been taken from home or accustomed to them 
from childhood, could have been brought up to easily digest the 
dishes of the country to which they had been transplanted. 
Nevertheless, give a Marseillais butter pap or beef soup, to 
a Flamand garhc soup, to a Parisian the aioH of Marseilles or 
the dried fish of the fishers of Dunkerque, and you will provoke 
in any of them disgust or indigestion. Recollections and ideas 
which accompany such and such aHments influence in such a 
degree their acceptation by the stomach and their digestibflity, 
that these psychic states can change entirely, and for a consider- 
able time, the digestive aptitudes of the individual. I have 
been witness of the following facts. A young child, aged seven, 
being forced to eat, whilst ill, some salad which he nevertheless 
liked, had an attack of indigestion and during more than ten 

38 



I 



DIGESTIBILITY OF ALIMENTS 



years he remained absolutely unable to digest this food of which 
he had formerly eaten very freely. A Uttle girl, aged five, 
having been given some ipecacuanha in her coffee, took such a 
disHke to the latter that its odour alone provoked nausea and 
from that time she could not bring herself to absorb the least 
quantity of a drink which she had looked forward to before this 
event. 

With these exceptions and only taking into consideration the 
most ordinary conditions, it is necessary that the physician should 
be informed of the average time which, in ordinary circum- 
stances, the stomach demands for the digestion of such and such 
alimentary materials. The stomach ought only to receive, in 
general, fresh foods after the preceding repast has been disposed 
of. In this respect the following observations, due to Penzoldt, 
present a practical interest : 

Average Time Necessary for the Stomach to Remove the Different 
Alimentary Materials which it Digests to the Intestine. ' 



A. Waters and Alimentary Drinks. 
Pure or gaseous water 

Infusion of weak tea 

Coffee 

Coffee with cream 

Pure cocoa 

Cocoa with Milk 

Beer 

Light wine 

Ordinary wine 

Malaga wine 

Gravy soup 

B. Flesh of Mammals or Birds. 
Cooked beefsteak, hot or cold . 

Roast beef 

Roast fillet of beef 

Raw beef (lean) 

The same boiled 

Raw ham 

Cooked ham 

Roast veal, hot or cold (lean) . 

Smoked meat 

Smoked tongue 

Sausage of raw meat 

Roast hare 

Roast goose moderately fat 

Roast duck 

Roast partridge 

Boiled pigeon 

Roast pigeon 

Boiled or roast chicken .... 

" 39" 



Quantity 


Time in 


in grms. 


hoi 
1 t 


ITS. 


100-200 


32 


300-500 


2 


3 


200 


1 , 


2 


200 


1 , 


2 


200 


2 , 


3 


200 


1 , 


2 


200 


1 , 


2 


200 


1 , 


2 


300-500 


2 „ 


3 


200 cc. 


1 „ 


2 


200 cc. 


2 „ 


3 


200 cc. 


2 „ 


3 


200 cc. 


1 , 


2 


100 


3 , 


4 


250 


4 , 


5 


100 


3 „ 


4 


250 


3 „ 


4 


250 


3 „ 


4 


160 


3 „ 


4 


160 


3 „ 


4 


100 


3 „ 


4 


100 


4 „ 


5 


250 


4 „ 


5 


100 


2 „ 


3 


250 


4 „ 


5 


250 


4 „ 


5 


250 


4 „ 


5 


230 


3 „ 


4 


230 


3 „ 


4 


195 


3 „ 


4 


250 


3 „ 


4 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



G. Other Dishes derived from Animals. 

Sweetbread 

Boiled calf's foot 

Calf's brain 

Boiled milk 



Soft-boiled eggs 

Hard-boiled eggs or omelettes 
Gravy Soup 

D. Fish and Analogous Dishes. 

Boiled carp 

Boiled pike 

Boiled haddock 

Fresh boiled cod .... 
Lamprey with \dnegar . 
Boiled Rhine salmon 

Salted or smoked herring . 

Salted caviare 

Raw oysters 

E. Cooked Vegetables. 
Steamed potatoes eaten with salt 
Mashed potatoes .... 
Potatoes with vegetables . 
Boiled cauliflower .... 
Cauliflower cooked in salad 
Cooked asparagus .... 
Rice cooked in water . 
Cooked turnips 



Boiled carrots 

Boiled spinach 

French beans 

Mashed peas 

Mashed lentils 

Green peas cooked in water .... 

F. Raw Vegetables. 

Cucumber salad 

Raw radish 

G. Bread and Biscuit. 

White bread, fresh or stale, dry or with tea 



Rye bread 
Albert biscuits 

H. Fruits. 

Apples 

Raw cherries 

Stewed cherries 

Cocoa (cup of) 



Quantity in 


Time in 


grams. 


hours. 


250 


2 „ 3 


250 


3 „ 4 


250 


2 „ 3 


100-200 


1 „ 3 


300-500 


2 „ 3 


100 


1 „ 2 


100 


2 „ 3 


200 


1 » 2 


200 


2 „ 3 


200 


2 „ 3 


200 


2 „ 3 


200 


2 „ 3 


200 


3 „ 4 


200 


3 „ 4 


200 


4 „ 5 


72 


3 „ 4 


72 


2 „ 3 


150 


2 to3 


150 


2 „ 3 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


2 „ 3 


150 


2 „ 3 


150 


2 „ 3 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


4 „ 5 


200 


4 „ 5 


150 


4 „ 5 


150 


4 „ 5 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


3 „ 4 


70 


2 „ 3 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


3 „ 4 


50 


2 „ 3 


150 


' 3 „ 4 


150 


3 „ 4 


150 


2 „ 3 


150 


2 „ 3 


200 cc. 


1 „ 2 



With all reservation as to the preceding remarks, we see that 
the foods which pass most quickly from the stomach into the 

40 



INTESTINAL UTILIZATION OF FOODS 

intestine are the alimentary drinks (cafe-au-lait, light chooolate, 
wine, beef -tea, vegetable broths, etc.) ; after these come milk, 
either boiled or not, eggs, cooked fruits, biscuits, brains, sweet- 
bread and boiled fish. Next are placed rice, herbaceous vege- 
tables and, nearly in the same rank, meat raw or cooked, and 
fowl. Fat meats, game, salt fish and some vegetables are 
difl&cult to digest ; finally very fat fish are the least digest- 
ible. Tliis indeed is what ordinary observation has already 
taught us. 

The forms under which foods are presented influence to a large 
extent the appetence and digestibility of various dishes. This 
is the role of culinary preparations, of spices and of fermented 
Uquids. We shall return to this. In general, the form which 
permits of the most rapid digestion is that which, for the same 
aliment, presents it as finely divided as possible. Emulsions, 
milk, cooked cocoa, etc., are in this category. Even the manner 
in which an aUmentary substance is swallowed largely influences 
its digestibihty. Give to a subject accustomed to raw meat, 
this alimentary matter under the form of pulp to take with a 
teaspoon, at the beginning of a meal, you will rapidly induce in 
him satiety and want of appetite for the foods which are to 
follow. Try the contrary, first let him eat these same foods 
and give afterwards, at the end of the meal, this same quantity 
of raw meat, pulped, in large balls of 20 to 30 grms. each, watching 
that it is swallowed without being chewed, in the second case 
you will neither provoke disgust nor satiety. The subject will 
succeed in digesting perfectly that which, taken otherwise or 
in the opposite order, would have provoked distressing reflexes, 
and for a long time have remained in the stomach. 

Because they have left this organ and penetrated into the 
intestine, foods are not for that reason digested ; but intestinal 
digestion escapes direct observation, it has therefore been agreed 
to measure the digestibihty of each food in the inverse ratio to 
the time necessary for stomachic digestion. We admit that it 
lasts from four to six hours for the whole of a normal meal and 
that an interval of six to seven hours is sufficient between two 
meals. Still this time varies much : it becomes singularly shorter 
in cold cUmates, with exercise or physical work, in men of different 
ages and especially in a child who digests much more rapidly. 

COEFFICIENTS OF INTESTINAL UTILIZATION OF FOODS. 

It is very important to determine for each food and each regime 
the quantum which, under ordinary conditions, is utilized and 
reabsorbed in the intestine, and the proportion which remains 
undigested to be thrown out of the body. According to Riibner's 
experiments, we find that 5-5 per cent, of the organic matters 

41 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of an average mixed diet are excreted as fseces.^ For a normal 
diet composed of 107 grms. of albuminoids, 64 grms. of fats and 
321 grms. of true carbo-hydrates^ this coefficient, for the total 
weight of 492 grms. of aUmentary matter, calculated dry, would 
give 27 grms. of organic faecal residue. Thus, according to 
Wehsarg, on an average we reject 140 grms. of excrements every 
day. This corresponds to 35 grms. of dry residue, containing 
5-3 grms. of different insoluble salts which brings the organic 
residue of the faeces to 28-7 grms. Again there enters into this 
residue a certain proportion of cellulose and other organic 
indigestible matters. It appears then that Riibner's coefficient 
of inutilization (5-5 per cent.) is a httle too high ; it should not 
sensibly exceed 5 per cent, for a good diet and normal digestion. 
We shall see that Atwater arrived at 4-5 per cent, in the case of 
normal ahmentation.^ 

This coefficient, variable according to the ahmentation, being 
estabhshed for a well defined ration, in order to determine the 
quantum of utiHzation of each kind of ahmentary matter, 
Riibner reduces this ration in a known proportion and replaces 
this deficit by foods of which he wishes to study the coefficiency 
of absorption. By deducting from the weight of the excrements 
that wliich corresponds to the retained portion of the primitive 
ration, one has, in the difference, the weight of the excrements 
proceeding from the addition of the food, the digestibihty of 
wliich we wish to study, and in consequence the percentage 
weight of it which has been absorbed. As to the utihzation of each 
of the albuminoid principles, fat or starch, composing the ahment 
under study, it follows : first, from the dosage of the quantity of 
excrementitial nitrogen which permits of calculating propor- 
tionally the residuary albuminoids and, by difference, the pro- 
portion of it wliich has been reabsorbed in the intestine, and 
secondly, from that of the fats or carbo-hydrates with which 
the faeces are enriched under the influence of the modification 

1 Between the two series of foods for examination Riibner, in order to 
be certain of the faecal matter belonging to each series, gave several days 
following some milk which discolours these matters, and allows one to 
recognize and thus to separate the excrements corresponding to the differ- 
ent consecutive experiments. It was still better, as Cramer did, to make 
the patient take a little lampblack or animal charcoal, wliich visibly separ- 
ates each excrementitial series. 

2 One must separate from the weight calculated 407*5 grms., that cor- 
responding to the alcohol of the fermented drinks, weight which we have 
added under the form of glycose about 96"5 grms. There remains then 
321 grms. of pure carbo-hydrates. 

3 A man in a state of inanition still excretes nearly 2 to 2'5 grms. a day 
calculated in the dry state, of faeces containing O'l to 0*3 of nitrogen. The 
result is that the calculation relative to the food used, deducting the nitro- 
gen thus secreted in the state of intestinal mucous material, gives too 
low numbers. 

42 



UTILIZATION OF ALIMENTS 



introduced into the normal supply of food. All that which is 
not recovered in the excrementitial matters has been absorbed. 
We shall return to this subject at the end of this book. 

By proceeding thus, Riibner, Prausnitz, E. Meyer, Woro- 
schilofif, Ranke, von Noorden, Zuntz and Magnus Levy, Uffel- 
mann, Atwater, etc., have arrived at the results which I reproduce 
in the following tables : ^ 

Table of Intestinal Utilization of Alimentaby Principles According 
TO REGIME (Experiments Anterior to those of Atwater). 





i-S 


|l 

.§■3 
o o fl 








Proportion utilized for 100 parts. 




S 2 

II 
II 


1 
d 

a o 

h 

o g 


a 

•»;> d 

d o 

aig 
■si 


no S 

Si 

"o-d 
«^ 
o2 






__A____ 








1 


d 

a 

d 


i 


J 

1 

o 


-3 


i 




■tf m ° 


1"" 

S 


1 


ss 

SI 


£ 
o 


< 
O 


o 


o 


m 

O 


A. Simple AlimenU 


J 




















(Riibner) 


gr- 


gr- 


gr. 


gr- 


gr- 












WTiite bread . 


1237 


779 


109 


28-9 


3-7 


96-3 


79 


— 


99 


93 


Rye bread 






1360 


773 


815 


115-8 


150 


850 


68-78 


— 


89 


64 


Macaroni . 






695 


626 


98 


27-0 


43 


95-7 


83 


94 


99 


76 


Rice . . 






i 638 


660 


195 


27-2 


41 


95-9 


80 


93 


99 


85 


Milk . . 






! 2438 


315 


96 


24-8 


8-8 


92-2 


89-99 


96-97 


100 


63 


Whole eggs 






i 948 


247 


64 


130 


52 


94-8 


97 


95 


— 


82 


Cooked meat 






1172 


307 


53 


17-2 


5-6 


94-2 


97 


95 


— 


82 


Potatoes . 






3078 


819 


645 


93-8 


9-4 


90-6 


78 


— 


93 


— 


Mashed potatoes wit? 


1 1 — 


— 




— 


— 


950 


80 


— 


96 


— 


butter 


1 




















Boiled savoy cabbage 


s 1 3831 


494 


1670 


73-8 


14-9 


85-1 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Carrots . . . . 


5133 


412 


1092 


850 


20-7 


79-3 


— 


— 


96 


— 


Mashed peas . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


910 


83 


— 


— 


68 


Fats 


— 


545 


299 


46-5 


8-6 


91-5 


— 


— 


— 


— 


B. Complex Alimenta 


. 




















Hon. 






















Diet .... 





615 


131 


340 


5-5 


95-4 


86-6 


944 


97 


85-4 


(Milk .... 
1 Clieese . 


2291) 
200/ 


420 


98 


27-3 


60 


94 


96 


97 


100 


74 


1 litre of milk, 30( 


) 1540 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


94 


95 


99 


— 


grms. of meat, 17^ 






















grms. of white 


) 




















bread, 60 grms. 






















butter. 























1 On the subject of these researches see Riibner, ZeitecA. /. Biolog., Bd. 
XV, p. 115, t. XVI, p. 119. Ranke, Die Erndhrung des Menschen (1871), 
p. 31 ; Prausnitz, Zeitsch. f. Biolog. Bd. XXV, p. 533 ; Bd. XXVI, p. 231 ; 
Bd. XXX, p. 354 ; Zuntz and Magnus Levy, Pfliiger's Arch., Bd. XLTX, 
p. 438 ; Bd. LTII. p. 544. UfTelmann Pfliiger's Arch., Bd. XXIX. p. 339, etc. 
Atwater, Nutrition investigations. Annual Report, Bd. S., June 30, 1901, 
p. 470. 

43 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





■^"n 


i^" 


o 


o 




Proportion utilized for 100 parts. 




a 2 


5 


.13 


■2s 




^ 








2 a 


fl a 
©■-- 


a 

« a 

a o 


_a 

g-2 


2 S 
a 








1 






n 


.5^ 
^1 


11 


a a 
o o 


Ot3 


M 


d 












S3 
o"a 




0,3 


Is 


>> 
ft 


a 


1 


J3 

s 


1 




■** OQ 






JS 


O O 














X3 o 


j3 »■« 




CD 


tH U 














ill 


01 d a 


i 


1 


1^ 


o 


o 


O 


o 


O 


Meat, peas, biscuits. 


4500 


805 




_ 





910 


83 


85 


96 


72 


cheese, rice, butter. 






















beer. 






















Meat, oatmeal, pota- 


4330 


787 


— 








870 


78 


77 


91 


;9 


toes, bread, fresh 






















butter, cheese. 






















Soup, macaroni, vege- 


— 


— 


— 








93-2 


81-4 


87-6 


95-9 


— 


tables, potatoes. 






















white bread, meat 






















(8 exps. Manfredi). 






















Rye bread, salted 


— 


— 


— 








924 


90-6 


945 


94-7 


71-5 


meat, milk, butter. 






















cheese, potatoes. 






















beer ( Johansen). 






















Diet of Italian stu- 


— 


— 


— 








93 6 


89-3 


923 


763 


78-7 


dents : bread, meat. 






















fish, eggs, potatoes. 






















rice, peas, wine 






















(Serafini & Zagato) 






















White bread, minced 


— 


— 


— 








972 


933 


95-6 


99 


— 


meat, eggs, butter. 






















sugar, broth, tea 






















(Khlopine) 






















Vegetarianism : Pum- 


— 


— 


— 








900 


59 


70 


91 


— 


pernikel or rye bread 






















with bran, fruits. 






















butter (Vict and 






















Constantinidi) 






















Vegetarianism : Black 


— 


— 


— 








— 


66 1 


76-5 


— 


— 


bread made with 






















bran, apples, dates. 






















oatmeal, rice, sugar. 






















nuts (Rumpf and 






















Schumm) 






















Mixed alimentation of 

















943 


88-6 


94-4 


97 


85-4 


Eiu-opeans (Eijkman) 








, 















According to the recent researches of Atwater, the coefficients 
of intestinal utihzation of alimentary principles of different 
origins are as follows : 



44 



UTILIZATION OF ALIMENTS 









Utqized for 100 Pabts. 


Principles. 


Albumin- 
oids 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Borrowed from flesh, eggs, milk 

,, ,, cereals .... 






97 

85 
78 
83 
85 

97 
85 
92 


95 
90 
90 
90 
90 

95 
90 
95 


98 
98 


„ ,, dry vegetables . 

„ ,, herbaceous vegetables 

,, ,, fruits 




97 
95 
90 


„ „ fecula .... 
,, ,, sugar .... 




98 
98 


Average for animal alimentation 

„ ,, vegetable ,, . . 
,, „ ordinary mixed alimentation 


98 
97 
97 



These researches have shown that white bread is the food 
which, taken exclusively, is best utilized. It is absorbed to 
the extent of 96-3 per cent. According to Riibner, a mixed 
diet of bread and milk, in equal parts, is absorbed in the pro- 
portion of 93-8 per cent. ; bread and eggs of 95-6 per cent. ; a 
regime of bread (2 parts) meat (1 part) which forms an average 
ahmentation well responding to the needs of the economy as 
regards albuminoid and ternary principles, has given to Riibner, 
as an average aumentary utilization, the proportion of 94-4 per 
cent. The mean coefficient of mixed alimentation, calculated 
according to the experiments of Atwater, leads to the coeffi- 
cient of ultiUzation of 95-5, that is to say, for a good average 
ahmentation, 4-5 per cent, only of the whole of the organic ah- 
mentary products, calculated dry, remain unused in the intestine. 

The complete diet of milk, meat, bread, butter ; or m^at, bread, 
rice, cheese, butter, beer ; or mexit, potatoes, gruel, peas, butter, 
cheese, which corresponds very nearly to the customary diet of 
the workman, gives a total utihzation varying from 95 per cent, 
(in the first case) to 87 per cent, (in the last case). 

We should remember once more that in virtue of some intes- 
tinal secretions, one reckons as unassimilated nitrogen, the nitrogen 
rejected with the intestinal mucus. These figures, and particu- 
larly those which relate to the albuminoids, are minimums. 

If the vegetable elements predominate in the ahmentation, 
the total utilization diminishes : 14 to 18 per cent, of the utiliz- 
able aUmentary material is then found in the faeces. They 
are accompanied besides by the hgneous and cellulosic portion 
abundant in these cases and almost inutihzable. 

Herbaceous vegetables leave then marked excretory residues, 
because their cellulose is not digested in the human intestine 
or only with very great difficulty ; because they also introduce 
some starchy or mucilaginous substances, often difficult to 
transform into sugar ; lastly, because their proteid materials have 
not time to undergo, at any rate in the case of man, in the course of 

45 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

a too short intestinal passage, the digestive transformations 
which precede their assimilation. 

These investigations of Riibner and those of Atwater show 
then that the quantum of utiUzation of equal quantities of 
albuminoids, of fats or of starches derived from different origins 
is far from being the same. The intestine makes a very different 
use of each of them and, in our species in particular, the materials 
of animal origin are always much better digested and absorbed 
than those which are furnished to us by plants. 

Of all aHments, flesh and fish provide us with the most utilizable 
albuminoids : 97-5 to 97-3 per cent, of these principles pass 
through the intestinal wall into the blood. Out of 100 parte of 
casein furnished by milk, only 95 parte are absorbed. But if 
we borrow the albuminoids from bread, for every 100 parte of 
gluten calculated in the dry state, 78-9 pass through the bowel 
into the chyle ; finally, there pass only 80 to 60 parts per cent, 
if we take the proteids from vegetables proper. 

Daily experience entirely confirms the researches of the 
laboratory : everybody knows that vegetables do not nourish 
so well as meat ; moreover, we here see, and in an exact manner, 
that they do not nourish so weU even with an equal weight of 
albuminoids ; in the relation of 85 to 97, or 87-5 {vegetable foods) 
to 100 {foods of animal origin). We will return later on to the 
important apphcations arising from these observations. 

Assimilation of Aliments. 

When ahmente have been digested, transformed in the intestine 
into producte capable of reabsorption, they have not yet acquired 
the faculty of nourishing us. As a matter of fact, the proteid 
substances of the tissues differ not only in different kinds of animals 
but in each kind of cell of the same animal, and in order to nourish 
each of these cells the albuminous matter brought by the 
circulation must undergo in each of them a final digestion. It is the 
same with fate and different sugars : the glucose and levulose 
originating from the intestinal digestion of cane sugar both reach 
the lymphatics, but the levulose disappears or is transformed in 
transit into glucose, which alone we find in the blood of the Vena 
Porta. When it has reached the Hver, this glucose itself is 
changed into glycogen, identical with that of the hepatic organ 
of the animal but sensibly different, as I have shown before, in 
each species of animal. It is only after it has undergone there 
many transformations, that we can say that the primitive sacchar- 
ose has been assimilated. 

It is the same as regards albuminoid matter, animal or vege- 
table, when it has been changed in the intestine into peptones 
and reabsorbable amido-acids by the viUi of the intestines, it 
is still not suitable for the nourishment of the protoplasms. 

46 






ASSIMILATION OF ALIMENTS 

While traversing the intestinal membrane, all these products 
of the digestion of the proteid bodies are again modified by a 
last ferment, erepsin, and so thoroughly, that in fuU digestion, 
we no longer find any trace of the peptones of the intestine in the 
blood of the mesenteric veins and Vena Porta. But in the blood 
plasma we do not find either muscuHn, casein, mucin, ossein, 
chondromucoid, elastin, nuclein or protagon, etc. ; in a word, 
any of the specific products from which are formed the different 
tissues which feed the blood. Thus, the mechanism by which 
each cell nourishes itself and grows, is not a kind of elective 
attraction, of selection which each tissue would exercise on the 
nutritive materials indiscriminately dissolved in the hetero- 
geneous miHeu wliich the lymph or the blood enriched by the 
digestive juices represent (pp. 2 and 4), In reahty, each kind of cell, 
those of muscle, nerve tissue, connective tissue, different glands, 
bone, cartilage, etc., manufactures different products in its 
protoplasms, while taking from the blood nutritive elements 
which are not those of which it is composed, hut which it is able 
to form by their union among themselves. Each cell assimilates, 
that is to say transforms into substances identical with its own, 
different materials brought by the blood. Each one produces 
the cytoproteids and nucleoproteids, the different fats which 
are suitable to it, according to the regions and tissues nourished 
by the same blood. 

One perceives then, that the origin of assimilable products 
has an influence on the rapidity of their definite adaptation to 
each organ. The vegetable albuminous principles assimilate 
with more difficulty and less completely than those of animal 
origin, and there are amongst animal products, specific albu- 
minoid matters which are unassimilable or assimilate with 
difficulty, viz. those of bone, cartilage, elastic tissue. 

It is thus that the coefficients of ahmentary utilization of 
Riibner and Atwater show that one could not without disadvan- 
tage replace, weight for weight, the albuminoid of animal origin 
by those borrowed from vegetables. It is the same with the 
substitution of starch or sugars for fats in chemically equivalent 
proportions. Fr. Hoffmann fed a man for several days with 
1,000 grms. of potatoes, 207 grms. of lentils and 40 grms. of bread. 
This ration contained 66 grms. of albuminoids, 18 grms. of fat 
and 255 grms. of carbo-hydrates. Under these conditions, the 
subject experimented upon lost 24 per cent, in weight of his ration 
calculated in the dry state, and 47 per cent, of the total nitrogen. 
The above ration was replaced by the following, principally 
animal, and containing nearly the same quantity of assimilable 
nitrogen and carbon : meat 390 grms., fat 126 grms., bread 
40 grms. The subject did not, from this time, lose more than 
17 per cent, of absorbed nitrogen, and did better work than in 

47 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

the first case, although, in the two regimes, the calculated quantity 
of ahmentary energy furnished to the subject during 24 hours 
was very sensibly the same. 

The adaptation of different nutritive substances to the needs 
of the system commences then in the intestine, continues across 
its walls and in the lymphatic gangha of the mesentery, follows 
on into the liver and terminates in each cell by a specific assimila- 
tion. In the digestive tube and its annexes, there takes place 
only a semi-assimilation. But we should be quite wrong to 
regard intestinal digestion of food as a simple hquifaction, 
destined only to allow of its passage into the blood. If this 
intestinal prehminary work is not accomplished, definite assimi- 
lation cannot be carried out. Hence the impossibihty, as we 
shall see further on, of nourishing patients by subcutaneous 
injections of peptone? or derived albumins, etc., because these 
substances have not undergone the preparatory transformations 
which the ferments of the intestine and mesenteric ganglia 
imprint on them. Soluble albumins, such as the white of egg, 
peptones, gelatin, not modified by intra-testinal digestion, if they 
are injected under the skin, pass rapidly into the urine. How- 
ever soluble, these substances remain inassimilable when they 
are introduced by this direct way, and are often even poisonous. 



48 



VI 

EXPENDITURE OF ENERGY IN THE CASE OF A MAN AT REST — 
PRINCIPLES RELATING TO THE REALIZATION OF THE ENERGY 
FURNISHED BY FOODS — VALUE IN ENERGY OF THE ALI- 
MENTARY RATION 

IF, during a given period, a healthy adult animal varies neither 
in condition nor in weight, we may say that the virtual 
energy of the ahments which he absorbs, in twenty-four hours 
for example, is entirely employed in compensating for the losses 
occasioned«by heat, work, etc., which have been induced by the 
activity of the organism. It is true that hydration, combustion, 
decompositions, etc., which provide him with the necessary energy 
are produced especially by the consumption of materials already 
assimilated and stored in his organs. But these materials being 
immediately replaced by the principles which alimentation con- 
tinually provides, we can say that, in a healthy organism, which 
rests in equihbrium of weight, general composition and condition, 
aU the energy expended corresponds to that which the ahments 
have introduced during the period under consideration. Thus 
the ahmentary needs, in the case of a normal adult man, will 
be proportional to the expenditure of energy of which he is the 
centre ; and such is the principle of a new method which in its 
turn will give us the measure of these needs, a method differing 
entirely from those which are based upon the statistics of general 
consumption by large human communities, or on the methodical 
and precise observation of certain particular cases, or on that of 
the nutritive balance. 

It is also necessary to ask oneself what are the needs and losses 
of energy of the man whose organs function normally, how to 
measure these needs, and how they can vary according to this 
same activity. 

Let us try to determine the amount of energy expended by 
the hving organism. 

This expenditure, if the animal is healthy and does not vary in 
weight and state, consists in losses of heat, the production of 
work, and phenomena of a nervous or psychic order. 

We mention these latter, since they constitute a form of vital 
activity ; but they cannot, in reahty, correspond to an expendi- 

49 E 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

ture of sensible material energy. An impression strikes our 
senses, it runs through the special nerve which has received it 
and which carries it to the nerve cells, where this impression is 
transformed, preserved, perceived or not, by the psychic centres. 
This impression acts then materially on the ganglionic or upon 
the central nerve cells, but it can only have for material equiva- 
lent the labour that is represented by the energy causing the 
impression. Now, the one thousand-millionth part of a gramme 
of an odoriferous substance like musk, or a quantity of hght 
scarcely capable of affecting a millionth of a milUgramme of 
silver salts, or the inappreciable energy contained in the sound 
waves which speech transmits to us, suffice to call into play our 
olfactory, visual or auditory organs. The transformations 
undergone by the nerve centres, through the action of outside 
agencies, are very real, but of inappreciable magnitude, equiva- 
lent as they are to a quantity of energy which is nearly insen- 
sible, comparable indeed in magnitude to that conveyed by the 
feeble hght wliich acts on a very sensitive photographic paper 
in the milhonth part of a second. It is true that the nervous 
action thus provoked can secondarily put in action such or such 
functional organs, excite or inliibit their activity, their circula- 
tion, the secretion of their ferments, etc., and thus produce some 
definite effects corresponding to an expenditure of energy superior 
to that which started it. But all these intermediate nervous 
phenomena of whatever nature, demonstrating themselves 
through interior labours, which follow and balance one another, 
disappear mathematically in the calculation of the definite 
expenditure of energy, when the individual has returned to his 
primitive material state. 

But if, after the series of these passing transformations, the 
subject has changed neither in weight nor in chemical or physical 
constitution (the insensible material modification nearly corre- 
sponding to the psychic or chemical act of the impression), the 
expenditure of energy relative to the cycle of operations under 
consideration will always be measured by the loss of heat or the 
production of exterior work on the part of the subject under 
experiment. 

In a word, the intermediate interior states do not play any 
part in the calculation of the expenditure of this energy. 

Thus, psychic phenomena may appear after the functional 
modifications which have originated them, and the energy which 
has successively caused them, have disappeared. These psychic 
acts, therefore, could not be equivalent to any part of tliis pre- 
paratory work of receiving and registering impressions. After 
the material phenomena have been produced, the aptitude to revive 
these impressions by the mind, to compare them with preceding 
impressions and to fudge their relations of analogy or causality, 

50 



i 



EXPENDITURE OF ENERGY IN MAN AT REST 

a comparison which constitutes the act of thought itseK, all 
these acts, more or less sensible to our consciousness, are not equi- 
valent to any expenditure of energy, because feeling, comparing 
and willing is not acting, also the material act, transforming 
itself by some modifications, material or even transient, alone 
corresponds to an equivalent expenditure of energy. 

In the case of a healthy adult, the daily alimentary needs are 
only equivalent to the exterior losses by means of heat and me- 
chanical work. Now, it is possible to calculate the energy relative 
to these two sorts of expenditure. According to direct observa- 
tions made by M. d'Arsonval with his anemo-calorimeter, 
a man weighing 74 kgs. seated and clothed, one hour after food 
and at a temperature of 18°, lost 69-6 Calories. MM. Bergonie 
and Segalas give the following figures for two men weighing 
respectively 72-750 kgs. and 70 kgs. : 



Surrounding Temperature. 


Calories Lost per Hour. 


Man weighing 72-750 kgs. 1 Man weighing 70 kgs. 


12° C. 
14° C. 
15 5° C. 


69-5 57-78 
68-5 79 

56-5 68-5 

1 



Taking the mean of these numbers and bringing them to 
15° and to 65 kgs. (the average weight of an adult), it is found that 
the expenditure of heat in the case of a man clothed, at rest and 
in a temperate climate, works out at about 64 Calories per hour, 
or 1,536 Calories per 24 hours. To these figures the following items 
should be added : 1st, that amount of heat which becomes 
latent by the transformation into vapour of 1,200 cc. of water, 
whether thrown off by the skin or the lungs ; let us put this at 1-050 
kg. X 582 = 611 Calories.^ 

In the calculation on the following page these figures should be 
reduced by that amount of heat which has already been regis- 
tered by the calorimeter when this vapour is cooled from 38° to 
the surrounding temperature. 

2nd, the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of 
the air which enters the lungs cold but issues from them warmed 
— roughly 80 Calories. 3rd, the amount of heat necessary to 
raise the temperature from 14° to 38° both of that part of the diet 



* The quantity Q of heat necessary to convert 1 kg. of water into the 
state of vapoxir at the same temperature has been found by V. Regnault 
to be : 

Q = (606-5 -0-695 t) Calories ; about 531-8 Calories when t = 38 °. 

51 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

which is received cold into the system, as well as the daily allow- 
ance of drinking water. This may be estimated at about 53 
Calories. 4th, the quantity of heat expended under the form of 
work, by the respiration muscles — about 50 Calories (calculat- 
ing the mechanical energy in Calories). 5th, the amount of heat 
which corresponds to the movements, the insignificant changes 
and involuntary actions of a man at rest which may be esti- 
mated at 150 Calories. By adding all these numbers together 
we shall have the total expsnditure in Calories, either lost directly 
or corresponding to the shght expenditure in the form of work, 
of an average man at rest. The following table gives the result 
of such a calculation : 

Calories 
Radiation frdVn the body of an average man . . clothed 1,536 

Latent heat due to the evaporation of about 1,100 grms. of water by 

the skin and lungs . . . . . . . .611 

Heating of the expired air ....... 80 

Heating of the aliments and drinking water taken cold and raised to 
the temperatiu-e of the body : heat lost by the urine and faeces : 

total 53 

Work performed by the heart and respiratory muscles. Other 
interior and minor exterior actions necessary to the mainten- 
ance of the activity of the organism ^ . . . .150 



Total expenditure (expressed in Calories) . . 2,430 

Such is approximately the total daily expenditure, expressed 
in Calories, of the average adult, hving at ease, in a temperate 
climate. 

Principles relating to the realization of energy supplied by 
food. Does our daily diet supply us with a quantity of free 
energy corresponding to this average waste ? Does it furnish 
us with a different quantity of energy if we have to perform 
mechanical work ? In the second case, what part of the ahment- 
ary energy is transformable into work ? 

Before discussing these questions it will be well to remember 
that if an individual in health who does not vary in weight, 
receives a given quantity of food and, after deriving nourishment 
from it, converts it into solid, liquid or gaseous excreta, he will 
benefit by a fixed amount of energy provided always that the 

1 The work of the heart and of the respiratory muscles, if estimated separ- 
ately, would alone greatly exceed 50 Calories, but it must be remembered 
that the greater part of this work is expressed in the form of friction — 
of the blood in the vessels, of the respiratory muscles, etc., and the amount 
of work which is thus changed into heat is included and expressed in the 
Calories radiated by the skixi. Finally, the last item, 150 Calories, which 
gives the amount of heat corresponding to involuntary and indeterminate 
actions, is subject to considerable variations to the behaviour of the subject 
in a state of relative repose. 

52 



PRINCIPLES OF ALIMENTARY ENERGY 

initial states — the body and food — and the final states — body and 
excreta — are the same, ivhatever the nature of the intermediate states 
may have been. This rule applies to all the cases which come 
under observation. Whether a certain quantity of sugar, 10 
grms. for instance, be burnt in a calorimeter slowly or quickly, 
or whether given to some animal to be utilized by it for its nour- 
ishment, if this sugar is entirely rejected by this animal, as if 
out of the calorimeter, in the state of water and carbonic acid, 
provided that the Uving creature remains materially as it was 
before being fed with this substance, these 10 grms. of sugar in 
changing into water and carbonic acid will have always set free 
a quantity of heat (39-6 Calories) identical with that which can be 
measured by its combustion in the calorimeter, and this is so 
whatever the intermediate states through which the animal and 
the sugar have passed. 

Sometimes a food, after passing through the human economy, 
is converted into waste matters which are only partially oxidized 
and still capable of combustion if brought to a red heat, by the 
agency of an increased amount of oxygen. In such cases, the 
heat produced (by oxidation or otherwise) by the combustion 
of this partially consumed food, is equal to that which would have 
resulted if it had been entirely burnt in the calorimeter, deducting 
the heat produced by the total combustion of all the residuary 
products still combustible into which the food-stuff is definitely 
transformed. 

For example, if 10 grms. of albumin are completely transformed 
by the organism (whilst absorbing 17 grms. of oxygen) into water, 
carbonic acid and 2-8 grms. of urea, whatever may have been the 
various intermediate states of the organs in which this transforma- 
tion took place, these 10 grms. of albumin, in being so destroyed, 
will put 48-57 Calories at the disposal of the animal ; that is to say, 
the quantity of heat which these 10 grms. of albumin would 
produce by their rapid and complete combustion in the calori- 
meter, less the number of Calories corresponding to the total 
combustion of 2-8 grms. of urea, that being the only residue of 
these 10 grms. of absorbed and transformed albumin which is 
still capable of combustion. And if, as is usually the case, it 
only produces 84 to 85 hundredths of the theoretical quantity 
of urea (in this case 2-38 grms., 15 per cent, of albumin having 
yielded nitrogenous bodies other than urea), it will be neces- 
sary in calculating the quantity of real heat produced, to subtract 
from the Calories furnished by the total combustion of 10 grms. of 
albumin, the quantities which the combustion of 2-38 grms. 
of urea and of the other nitrogenous bodies formed at the same 
time would give. 

If, during the period of alimentation which is under consideration, 
the animal has performed any external work, the heat radiated 

53 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

by it or rendered latent during this period, is equal to the heat 
produced by the chemical changes of the intermediate principles 
of its ahments, diminished by the heat equivalent to the exterior 
labour performed by the animal ; that is to say, one Calorie 
disappears for every 425 kUogrammetres produced. 

The result of these calculations, as M. Berthelot has already 
stated, is that : " TAe maintenance of life does not consume any 
part of the energy belonging to it, and that the nature of the inter- 
mediary transformations, through which the animal passes, does 
not play any part in the calculation of the energy necessary to its 
maintenance, provided that the initial and final states of the living 
being remain the same.^^ ^ 

These preUminaries being estabhshed, we can now calculate the 
quantity of total energy which the average alimentary allowance 
(determined experimentally as described above) puts at our 
disposal, provided that we know at the same time not only the 
composition of these aliments in assimilable and combustible 
principles, but the nature of the final transformations of these 
principles in the economy ; and lastly, the heat given by the com- 
bustion of each of these principles and of their residues. In order 
to calculate the energy which corresponds to the actual destruction 
of these matters, we must estimate : 1st, not the proportions 
which are introduced into the system by means of food, but rather 
the quantities which are re-absorbed and which traverse the intestinal 
walls. 2nd, the forms under which the alimentary residues are 
rejected by the economy. But before attacking the whole of 
the problem from the practical side, I think it would be useful 
to give in the following tables the quantities of heat produced : 
1st, by the total combustion in the calorimeter of the most impor- 
tant organic alimentary principles ; 2nd, by the total combustion 
of the albuminoids, minus that of the quantity of urea which 
theoretically corresponds to them. 

The figures in these tables give the measurements of the quan- 
tities of heat which correspond, in each case, to the combustion 
of each aHmentary principle, admitting that the combustion is 
complete. 

In the case of the albuminoids, these figures give in one column 
the amount of heat produced by their complete combustion ; and 
in the other, the amount of heat produced if we assume that their 
entire quantity of nitrogen passes finally into the form of urea. 

^ M. Berthelot, Essai de mecanique chimique, t. I, p. 91. 



54 



ALIMENTARY ENERGY 



A. Calories Produced by the Total Combustion, in the Calori- 
meter, OF Different Alimentary Non-nitrogenous Principles. 







Heat of Com- 


Quantity of 


Name of Substance. 


Formula. 


bastion in 
Calories for 1 


Material 
giving 






grm. of JIatter. 


1 Calorie. 








grms. 


Alcohol vinic 


C2H60 


7-061 


0-1417 


„ butylic . 






C^ioO 


8-55 


— 


„ amylic . 






C5H120 


9-96 


— 


Glycol . . . 






C2H602 


4-564 


— 


Glycerine 






C3H803 


4317 


02347 


Maimite . 






C6H1106 


4-003 


— 


Glucose and its is 


)Omeric 


s 


C6H1206 


3739 


0-2674 


Inosite 






C6H1206 


3702 


— 


Arabinose 






C5H10O5 


3726 


— 


Starch 






(CfiHioOS)™ 


4-227 


0-2364 


Inuline . 






(CeHioOS)™ 


4 184 


02390 


Dextrine 






(C6Hio05)P 


4-180 


0-2429 


Cellulose 






(C6H10O5)1 


4-209 


02376 


Saccharose . 






C12H22011 


3-962 


02524 


Lactose . 






C12H220U 


3777 


0-2648 


Acetic acid 






C2H*02 


3505 


0-2853 


Butyric „ 






C*H802 


5912 


— 


Valeric „ 






C5H10O2 


6-608 


— 


Caproic ,, 






C6H1202 


7 164 


0-10795 


Margaric ,, 






C16H3202 


9-262 


0-10601 


Stearic „ 






C18H3602 


9433 


0-10515 


Oleic 






C18H3402 


9-510 


— 


Oxalic „ 






C2H20* 


0-667 


— 


Succinic ,, 






CmeO* 


3-000 


02731 


Lactic „ 






C3H603 


3-661 


— 


Citric „ 






C«H607 


2-500 


0-4000 


Malic ,, 






C4H803 


4-549 


0-2198 


Benzoic „ 






C7H602 


6-319 


— 


Quinic „ 






C7H1206 


4-389 


— 


Trilaurine 
Triolein . 








1 C57H104O6 


( 8-945 ■> 
\_ 9-862 ] 


0-10140 


Tristearine 








C57H110O6 


9-840 


010163 


Pork fat 








— 


9-380 


0-1066 


Mutton fat 











9-406 


1063 


Butter 











9-192 


0-1088 


OUve oil 






• 1 — 


9328 


0-1072 



55 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Calories Peodtjced by the Principal Alimentary Nitrogenous 
Substances : 1. From their Total Combustion in the Calori- 
meter ; 2. In the Case where Urea is produced. 



Name of Substance. 


Fonnula. 


Heat produced 
by the total com- 
bustion in the 
Calorimeter of 
Igrm. of substance 


Heat calculated for 

the transformation 

into H20,C02and 

urea of 1 gram. 

of matter. 


Oxamide 

Alanin 

Asparagin .... 
Hippuric acid . 

Urea 

Tyrosin 

Taurin 

Leucin 

Uric acid .... 


C2H4N202 

C3H7N202 

C*H8N203 

C9H9N03 

CH4N20 
C9H11N03 

C2H7NS02 
C6H13H02 

C5H1N403 


3-250 
4-370 
3395 
5659 
2-690 
5918 
2503 
6-526 
2-747 


3 562 
2-306 
5490 
000 
5 203 
0000 
6-191 
1 040 



C. Calories Produced: 1. By the Total Combustion of the Sub- 
stance. 2. Allowing that the entire Quantity of Nitrogen 
IS Eliminated in the form of Urea. 



Name of Substance. 


Heat produced 

by the total 

combustion in the 

Calorimeter of 
1 j?rm. of matter. 


Heat produced 
by combustion of 
1 gram of matter 
assuming the for- 
mation of urea. 


Quantity of 

matter giving 

1 Calorie in the 

production of 

urea. 


Egg albumin 


5-687 


4-857 


grms. 
0-2059 


Blood fibrin 








5-529 


4-749 


02104 


Haemoglobin 
Casein 








5-914 
5-629 


4-964 
4-820 


0-2015 
02075 


Ossein 








5-414 


4-546 


0-2209 


Isinglass . 
ViteUne . 








5242 

5-784 


4-954 


02018 


Gluten 








5-994 


5-245 


0-1906 


Chitine . 








4-655 


4-235 


0-2361 


Yolk of dry egg i 






8-124 


7-704 


0-1298 



1 The following figures taken from Danilewsky, give the number of 
Calories obtained by the total combustion of different edible materials and 
per gramme of dry substance. 



Wheat flour 4-47 

Beef without fat . . . 5-43 

Flesh of frog .... 5-53 

Ox Blood 5-90 

Cow's milk (calculated dry) . 5-73 

Human Milk 4-23 

Potatoes 4-84 

White bread .... 4-35 



Rice 4-81 

Rye bread 447 

Lentils 4-89 

Maize 5- 19 

Brain 7- 14 

Oats (whole) 5- 10 

Cabbage 4- 12 

Hay 4-35 



All Danilewsky' 8 figiires are only approximate. 

A litre of cow's milk corresponds to about 750 Calories. With the 
addition of 60 grms, of sugar it represents about 1,000 Calories. 

56 



COEFFICIENTS OF ALIMENTARY UTILIZATION 

Coefficients of Real Utilization of the Alimentary 
Principles. 

It is now possible for us to calculate, by means of the three 
methods already described, at least theoretically, in the form of 
Calories, the energy contained in the alimentary allowance for 
twenty-four hours. We have found that the daily nourishment 
of an adult at rest ought to contain an average of 107 grms. of 
albuminoids, 64-5 grms. of fats and 407 of carbo-hydrates (see p. 24) . 
According to the table below, if these principles were strictly 
absorbed in the intestine, then transformed into water, carbonic 
acid and urea, in traversing the system, they would theoretically 
give the following figures : 



Weight ia Dry State. 



Albviminoids . 107 grms. 
Fats . . . 64-5 „ 

Carbo-hydrates . 407-5 „ 



Calories Produced. 



107 grms. x4-8 == 514 

64-5 „ x9-8 =- 632 

407-5 „ X 4-22 = 1720 

Total . . 2866 



But we have seen that Riibner, and later Atwater, have estab- 
Ushed the fact that in an average normal case, a proportion (5 
to 5-5 per cent, according to Riibner, while Atwater gives 4-5 per 
cent.) of the nourishment remains unutiUzed by the organism and 
passes into the faeces. The number of Calories therefore correspond- 
ing to the average ration should then be diminished by about 5 
per cent., that is to say 145 Calories. 

This is not all ; as we have already said, the proteid matters, 
fats and sugars, which penetrate into the economy, are not entirely 
transformed after intestinal absorption, the albumin into water, 
carbonic acid and urea, the fats and sugars into water and car- 
bonic acid. A part of these substances changes itself into pro- 
ducts of excretion which are only partially oxygenized, hence 
the production of a smaller amount of heat. Thus, of 100 parts of 
albumin received by the normal healthy organism, the maximum 
quantity which decomposes to form urea is from 83 to 90 
parts per cent., while from 10 to 17 per cent, are converted into 
other nitrogenous substances (uric and hippuric acid, xanthic 
bodies, extractive substances, colouring matters, etc.). In the 
same way, besides water and carbonic acid, the sugars and fata 
produce small quantities of acids — oxahc, succinic, lactic, ben- 
zoic, etc., which reappear in the diflferent excretions. Thus, the 
energetic coeflScient or actual or practical calorific is always lower 
than the theoretical coefficient. This practical coefficient has 
been established in two ways : 1st, by means of analysis of the 
excreta and the calculation of their residuary caloric energy, 
which must be deducted from the energy corresponding to the 
destruction of the entire amount of food under consideration. 

57 



DIET AND DIETETICS 




2nd, experimentally and directly by collecting and measuring 
the heat produced in each case. We give here Riibner's and At- 
water's coefficients to which, for the sake of comparison, we add 
the theoretical coefficients. 

1 grm. of assimilated matter yields in decomposition 



Animal albumin (with formation of 

urea) 
Vegetable albumin (gluten, etc.) . 

Animal fat 

Vegetable fat (olive oil) .... 

Sugar (glucose) 

Starchy matters 

Such are, on an average, the quantities of real energy, counted 
in Calories, which each of the aUmentary principles yields for 
each gramme of matter which, after having penetrated into the 
lymphatics and the blood, is eventually split up and destroyed 
in our organs. 

But Riibner had already recognized what Atwater afterwards 
confirmed, that the transformations into energy of the various 
proteid principles (fats, starches, sugars) varies sensibly according 
to the nature of the aliment from which they proceed and of the 
regime with which they are associated. By means of a long 
series of experiments with his respiratory calorimetric room 
Atwater, as will be shown later, has fixed the coefficients of energy 
resulting from these regimes, as follows : 

Calories, Accobdimg to Atwater, Produced by Destruction in the 
Economy of 1 gramme of the Different Fundamental Alimen- 
tary Principles. 





Calories 
for 1 grm. 
of proteids 
disin- 
tegrated 
intiie 


Calories 


Calories 


Propor- 
tion per 


Origin. 


for 1 grm. 
of fat de- 


for 1 grm. 
of disin- 


cent, of the 
actual 


stroyed in 


tegrated 


available 




tlie 


carbo- 


energy de- 




tissues. 


hydrates. 


rived from 










the foods. 


Flesh of mammals and fish 


4-25 


900 


_ 


87 


Eggs 






435 


900 


— 


89 


Milk and derivatives 










4-25 


8-80 


3-80 


93 


Average of animal food 










425 


895 


380 


89 


Bread and cereals . 










370 


8-35 


410 


91 


Vegetables in grain . 










3-20 


835 


405 


83 


Green vegetables 










2-90 


8-35 


385 


98 


Fruits .... 










3 15 


8-35 


410 


98 


Sugar 










— 


— 


400 


91 


Starch .... 










— 


— 


3 60 


88 


Average of vegetable food 








3 55 


835 


400 


02 


Average of mixed food . 








400 


8 90 


400 


91 



58 



COEFFICIENTS OF ALIMENTARY UTILIZATION 

Thus, one gramme of albumin split up in the economy and con- 
verted principally into urea, water and carbonic acid will yield, 
not 4-86 Calories, but 4-25 Calories, if it is derived from meat, 
and only 3-70 Calories if derived from bread. As a result of 
combustion in our organs 1 grm. of animal fat will give not 9-3 
Calories, but 9-0 Calories, and only 8-35 Calories will be yielded 
by vegetable substances. At water's table also shows that the 
following figures will result from the employment of a general 
mixed diet : 



For 1 grm. of disintegrated albuminoids 
„ 1 grm „ fats 

,, 1 grm. „ carbohydrates 



4-00 Calories 

8-90 

4-00 



Finally, the last column of the table gives the practical aliment- 
ary coefficients. It indicates, for 100 parts of energy virtually' 
contained in each of the nutritive principles which we have con- 
sidered, the proportion which according to the nature of the ali- 
ment, is utiUzable, giving an account on the one hand of the loss 
undergone by the intestinal non-utihzation of a fraction of these 
principles, and on the other of the coefficients of energy produced 
by each of them according to their origin, after decomposition 
in the economy. This last column shows, for example, that of 
100 Calories corresponding theoretically to one part of albumin 
derived from meat, if entirely absorbed in the intestine, and trans- 
formed into water, carbonic acid and urea — of these 100 Calories 
only 87 can really be utiHzed by man. It shows that on an average 
we reaHze 89 per cent, of the energy of our animal foods, 92 per 
cent, of that of vegetable origin and 91 per cent, of the total energy 
suppHed by an average diet. 

We know that, for a mixed regime, the intestinal utiHzation 
of each principle is therefore as follows : 



For 1 gramme. 


Absorbed in 
the Intestine. 


Retained in 
the Faeces. 


Albuminoids 

Fats . 

Carbo-hydrates 


0-92 grms. 
0-95 „ 
0-97 „ 


008 grms. 
005 „ 
003 „ 



The really utiUzable quantities of energy derived from a mixed 
diet and expressed in Calories, are therefore as follows : 



Mean 
MiTTPrt niPt co-efflcient of 
Mixed Diet. intestinal 
absorption. 


Calories 

per grm. 

after 

decomposition. 


Calories 

per grm. 

contained in 

the food. 


For 1 grm. of albumin . . 0-92 
„ 1 grm. of fats .... 0-95 
„ 1 grm. of carbo-hydrates . 0-97 


4 00 cals. 
8-90 „ 
400 „ 


3-68 cals. 
8-65 „ 
3-88 „ 



59 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Such are the practical multipliers which, in the case of a mixed 
diet, allow us to calculate the utilizable energy of each ration, if 
we know the composition of the ahments and the quantity of 
each which is daily consumed. 

We see that as a rule, either by incomplete intestinal absorption, 
or by imperfect combustion in the organs, the economy loses 
nearly a tenth of the theoretical energy which would be at its 
disposal if the total amount of the alimentary products were 
reduced by combustion, to water, carbonic acid and urea. 

Applying these ideas to the average normal regime of an adult 
at rest, such as already described (p. 24), we shall have : 





Quantities per 24 hours 

multiplied by 
Atwater's Coefficients. 


Corresponding Calories. 


Albuminoids 

Fats 

Carbo-hydrates . 


107-3 grms. x 3-68 

64-5 „ X8-65 

-407-5 „ X3-88 


394-8 cals. 
557-9 „ 
15811 „ 



Energy expressed in Calories per 24 hours 2533-8 cals. 

Expressed in Calories, such would be definitely the true value 
of the energy supplied by an average diet to a man in a normal, 
healthy condition. 

In illustration of this point some results anterior to ours, but 
calculated with Riibner's coefficients, here follow : 



Doctors, clerks, etc., ration of main- 
tenance 

English citizen 

German workman at rest 



Energy supplied 

by the 

Daily Diet (in Cals.) 



2631 Cals. 

2641 „ 
2859 „ 



Authors. 



Riibner. 

Forster. 

Pettenkoffer and 
Voit. 



These numbers, and particularly the last, have been since 
recognized as too high. They should be reduced by about a 
twentieth. We ourselves, in calculating the energy expended 
by an adult in a state of repose (p. 53), found the figures 3,459 
Calories per 24 hours too high. 

The number deduced from the average dietary in Paris is 
2416 Calories.! 

1 The calculation according to the data on p. 18 is as follows: — 

Albuminoids . . . .' 102 grms. x 3-68 Cals. = 375-4 Cals. 

Fats 56-5 „ x8-65 „ = 488-7 „ 

Carbo-hydrates . . . 400 „ x 3-88 „ =15520 „ 



Total 



2,416 Cals. 



6o 



DAILY EXPENDITURE IN ENERGY 

All these values agree. 

Working from Atwater's coefficients as the best, we find that 
in the case of a normal man weighing 65 kilos, and in a state of 
comparative repose, the utilizable energy derived from a normal 
diet increases to about 39 Calories per kg. of body weight. 

Here we speak only of the regime of maintenance or of relative 
repose. In a state of complete repose in bed, the number of 
necessary Calories falls on an average to 31 Calories net according 
to Ranke, and even to 24 Calories according to Tigerstedt,^ per 
kg. of body weight per 24 hours. 

These numbers are applicable to the average adult man, but 
they vary considerably according to age. The following numbers 
have been calculated by Riibner ^ for children, young people and 
full grown men. 







Total waste 


Calories 




Bodj' weight. 


calculated in 


per kilogramme 






Calories per 24 lirs. 


of body weight. 


Children of . 


4 030 kgs. 


368 Cals. 


91-3 Cals. 


,, 


11-800 „ 


966 „ 


81-5 „ 


j> 


16-400 „ 


1213 „ 


73-9 „ 


,, 


23-700 „ 


1411 „ 


59-3 „ 


Young men . 


40-400 „ 


2106 „ 


62 1 „ 


Men .... 


67-000 „ 


2843 „ 


42-43 ^^ 



We shall see in Part III, a propos of the variations of 
regimes with age and size, that the alimentary needs of the econ- 
omy are above all regulated by the temperature of the body, and 
depend on the surface of the subjects far more than on their 
weight. 

i Calories net, that is practically disposable. 

2 Zeitsch. f. Jiiolog., t. XXI, p. 396. 

3 All these numbers are certainly too high by about a tenth to a 
twentieth. 



6l 



vn 

EXPERIMENTAL CALORIMETRY IN A LIVING AND FUNCTIONING 
MAN — ATWATER's RESPIRATORY CHAMBER — RESULTS OBTAINED 

THE method of determining the average quantity of ahments 
necessary to the functioning of a man at relative ease, 
that is to say only doing work indispensable to his maintenance, 
has been set forth in the preceding chapters ; 1st, by calculat- 
ing the weight of his average food and the elements which com- 
pose it, and multiplying their weight by the coefficient of calorific 
utihzation of each of them ; 2nd, by estimating the defi- 
ciencies which have been caused by the expenditure of a given 
amount of energy ; by the heat lost by radiation, convection, 
pulmonary or cutaneous aqueous evaporation ; by the work of 
the respiratory organs ; finally, by the small expenditures (diffi- 
cult perhaps to appreciate) which correspond exactly to the fight 
and complex work of a man in health, who, though functioning 
freely, is nevertheless taking only that amount of exercise which 
is indispensable to his existence (see p. 53). 

It is possible to-day, thanks more especially to the important 
works of W. 0. Atwater, the learned director of the Experimental 
Station of Alimentation of the United States Agricultural Depart- 
ment, not only to calculate, but to measure exactly in the form of 
heat, the losses of energy (coofing, cutaneous and respiratory 
evaporation, mechanical work, etc.) of animals, of man in parti- 
cular, living, functioning and working, and to compare in each 
case, with the energy thus gathered, the energy furnished by the 
foods. 

Better than aU those which have preceded them, the splendid 
researches we are about to analyze have shown : ^ 

1st. The measurement of the amount of energy expended by 
the man in health and the relative proportions of this energy 
appearing under the form of lost caloric and of work produced. 

2nd. The exact determination of the coefficients of energy 
yielded by each afimentary principle (see preceding chapter) 

1 Published by Atwater and his collaborators from 1898 up to to-day, 
by the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture ; in the Annual Report of the Office of 
Experiment Stations, Washington. 

62 



EXPERIMENTAL CALORIMETRY 

and the variations of these coefficients according to the dietetic 

regime. 

3rd. The solution of the following problems : 

o. Whether the amount of alimentary energy or its utilization 

varies according to the state — whether of repose or of work, 

mechanical or psychic — of the subject. 

b. Whether stimulating or inhibitory substances exist, which 
have power to augment or diminish the transformation of food 
into energy, or to modify the coefficients of utilization of each 
ahmentary principle. 

c. Whether combustible substances (alcohols, ethers, aromatic 
bodies, etc.) exist which are able to pass through the system 
without being consumed in it, and to what extent certain of them 
may be utilized by the organs. 

The experiments of Atwater and his collaborators, with patients 
confined for several consecutive days in the calorimetric chamber, 
have further enabled us to measure the quantities both of oxygen 
consumed and of carbonic acid, water and nitrogen, etc., excreted. 
It is thus possible to establish, as much from the chemical as from 
the energetic point of view, the complete balance of nutritive 
activity. 

These delicate problems had already been partly solved by 
M. Reiset ^ in their relation to the larger farm animals, and by 
MM. Pettenkofier and Voit ^ in their relation to man. 

Atwater's study, by means of his calorimetric chamber or res- 
piratory calorimeter, of the utilization of food stuffs by the human 
organism, has been attended by results both masterly and precise. 

The subject under experiment eats, works and sleeps in the 
chamber for several days, and lives rationally in an atmosphere 
constantly renewed and maintained at a fixed temperature 
whilst the quantities of heat lost, of work accomplished, of oxygen 
absorbed, of water, carbonic acid and excretory matter lost by 
him, are collected and registered outside the apparatus. 

These data also permit of the following calculations : 

a. The slight variations to which the organism is subjected, 
it having been previously brought as nearly as possible into a 
state of equiHbrium as regards N and C. 

b. The energy expended by it in the form of heat, either radi- 
ated or latent, and of mechanical work. 

c. The influence wliich the substitution of one dietary for 
another and of one combustible principle for another, exercises 
upon the organism. 

Atwater's respiratory chamber AA (Fig. 1) and D (Fig. 2) 

1 Chemical researches on the respiration of farm animals. Ann. Chim. 
Phys. (3), t. LXIX, p. 129. 

2 Ann. Ghem. Pharm.,t. CXLI, p. 295 ; Sitzungsber. d. bayerischen Akad. 
d. Wissenschaft, 1867, 1. 1 ; Zeitsch. f. Ghem. (2) t. III. p. 30. 

63 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

(pp. 65 and 66) is formed by five concentric compartments, the 
two inner ones being constructed of metal, the three outer ones 
of wood. The innermost chamber is of red pohshed copper. It 
is connected by wooden crossbeams with the second casing which 
is formed of zinc. There is a space of 76 mm. between the two 
metallic walls. In this space and very near to the inner partition, 
are placed the weldings of 304 thermo-electric couples intended 
to convey to the outside, and there register, the exact temperature 
of the calorimetric chamber. 

Besides the patient, this room contains a table, chair, bed, 
and a fixed bicycle. Its temperature remains constant to nearly 
one hundredth part of a degree, owing first to the fact that the 
air before reaching the interior has to circulate between the five 
coverings, and secondly, to the regulation of the heat produced 
in the interior, by means of a current of cold water which is mani- 
pulated from the outside. The respiratory air is brought there 
dry and at the same temperature as that of the interior of the 
calorimeter and the volume of this air is exactly measured as we 
shall see further on. 

The food excretions and products of respiration and perspira- 
tion of the subject under consideration are all analyzed both on 
entering and on leaving the apparatus. The carbon, hydrogen, 
sulphur, phosphorus, chlorine and metals are estimated. 

On leaving, the amount of oxygen which has disappeared 
from the circulating air, the amount of COj, of nitrogen which 
has appeared (if necessary), and the total amount of water 
vapour whether excreted by the skin or by the lungs in the 
respiratory chambers, are all carefully computed. 

By comparing the increase or decrease in the quantities of 
carbon and nitrogen in the excreta with the amount of the same 
elements introduced by food (which has been previously analyzed), 
it is possible to calculate, according to the rules already given, 
the gain or loss of the patient in albuminoids and fats ; the gains 
being deducted from, or the losses added to, the original aUmentary 
total of these same elements. 

It is also possible, as will be seen later, to measure the quantity 
of heat given off by the patient in the course of the experiment. 
To this may be added the amount of heat represented by the 
excretion of water vapour, whether by the skin or lungs of the 
patient, the water being collected outside the apparatus. Thus 
the total loss of energy in the form of heat may be ascertained. 
A fixed bicycle with an ergometer attached to it regis- 
ters the amount of work performed. The axle of the apparatus 
is attached to a dynamo, by means of which all the work thus 
produced is transformed into an electric current, which is, in 
its turn, changed into equivalent heat in passing through an 
incandescent lamp placed in the respiratory chamber. The energy 

64 




(4 

<D 

XI 

o a 

CO 

> 

H S 2 " o ^ 
S « -^ ® fl 3 
^ 5 c -^^ S 

CO ji -3 

q|..* 

^-t . • ® 



d 



2 as 



.a o 



H o * * 2 

a: 2 §£ ®T^ 

^ S .2 ^ § J 

g ^ a ^ p. S 



H * S ^^ fe-^ 



^S 















ATWATER'S RESPIRATORY CALORIMETER 

lost in the form of radiated heat or of work produced by the 
subject, is thus completely transformed into heat which may be 
measured by the temperature of the water which comes out of the 
apparatus. 

The two figures 1 and 2 (p. 66) show, the first in perspective, 
the second, in horizontal projection, the whole of the installation 
of Atwater's calorimetric apparatus. In the middle AA (Fig. 1), 
D (Fig. 2), is the respiratory chamber with its five casings. 

This chamber is 2-15 m. long by 1-22 m. broad and 1-92 m. 
high. It is entered by the door FG (Fig. 1). During the whole 
of the experiment this door, which has double walls, is hermetic- 
ally sealed. It is through the porthole B, fastened inside and 
out (the latter well protected by a non-conducting mattress) 
that the patient passes out his excreta, liquid or solid, or receives 
what he requires. Between each of the five casings of the 
respiratory chamber AA there is a space where the air which passes 
regularly from one to the other at a temperature equal to that of 
the interior of the room, circulates as we shall explain farther on. 
On the left are the air pump E (Fig. 2) and the electric motor 
F. In front of the respiratory room, a little to the left, is the 
observer's table CC (Fig. 1), with the galvanometer where the 
thermo-electric wires wind themselves and register the tem- 
perature of the interior of the chamber. In front of the latter, 
the cooling trough containing chloride of calcium N, the use of 
which will be seen later. On the right the pump E (Fig. 1), 
L (Fig. 2), which serves to measure the calorimetric water which 
issues from the respiratory room. In N (Fig. 2) are three 
receivers which imprison a one-fiftieth part of the air leaving 
the chamber in order that it may be submitted to analysis. 
P^ (Fig. 2) is the outlet for the air from the refrigerator D going 
to the meter E (Fig. 1). 

The respiratory chamber AA (Fig. 1) is lighted by a double 
glass pane sealed into the partition and by the double glass 
door GF. 

To the right (near the door) is the measure for the water 
which penetrates into the chamber by a special tube and which 
leaves it at a temperature scarcely greater than that of the 
respiratory chamber, after having carried off the surplus of heat 
produced by the functioning of the subject. The temperature 
of this water is ascertained, at very close intervals, to nearly the 
one-hundredth of a degree, by means of mercurial thermometers 
placed into the tubes of entry and exit in which it circulates. 
In entering the apparatus, this water runs through a metalhc 
tube furnished with small wings placed against the internal 
partition of the calorimeter which it cools by carrying away 
the excess of heat produced by the patient. This water may 
be made to flow more or less quickly, and thus the internal 

65 F 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

temperature of the room is kept constant. The temperature, as 
already shown, is ascertained by means of a series of 304 
thermo-electric couples, with iron-silver joints, which are 
placed in the first space around the innermost metalUc 
partition of the chamber, and are almost in contact with it. 
The thermo-electric wires then meet and are connected with a 
galvanometer or bolometer placed on the table CC of the 
observer, where the temperatures of the interior of the apparatus 
are recorded. It may be regulated to the one-hundredth part of a 
degree almost, by allowing more or less water to pass into the re- 
frigerating tube. From the measurements of the volume of this 




Fig. 2. — ^Plan in Projection of Atwateb's Complete Apparatus 
FOR Measuring Nutritive Changes. AC. Aspiration ; D. Respiratory 
chamber ; E. Air pumps ; G. Ammoniacal refrigerator ; K. Cooler of 
the in-coming air ; L. Pump for circulating and measuring the water ; 
M. Dryers ; N. Three air exhausters ; Pj. Entrance for the air ; P4. 
Exit of the air from the respiratory chamber. 

water by means of the pump E (Fig. 1) and of the excess of its 
temperature on leaving the calorimeter, the quantity of heat 
produced may be easily calculated. 

The air which penetrates into the calorimetric room should 
carry with it neither heat nor humidity. Therefore the air 
drawn in from outside circulates at first in a metallic copper 
conductor which is immersed in the refrigerating bath ND 
(Fig. 1) of chloride of calcium maintained at — 19 ° C. or 
— 30 ° C. by the ebulUtion of liquid ammonia. In circulating 
through the metallic cyUnders plunged into the trough at this 
low temperature, this air loses at first the greater part of its 

66 



ATWATER'S RESPIRATORY CALORIMETER 

moisture which the cold causes it to "deposit in the form of 
hoar-frost. The nearly dry air which issues from the large 
tubes HH is then reheated to the temperature of the inner 
room before entering the calorimeter. With this end in view, 
an incandescent lamp is placed at the entry of the air-ducts 
after the cooling, by means of which this air may be reheated to 
the exact temperature of the interior of the respiratory chamber, 
as indicated by the bolometer. Thus heated and dry, the air passes 
first into the empty space between the first and second protecting 
wooden partitions ; it then traverses the space between the second 
and third ; from there to the fourth ; and finally enters the calori- 
meter at exactly the same temperature as the room. Thus the 
atmosphere of the internal chamber is uninfluenced by the passage 
of air from without. But when it finally issues from the calori- 
metric chamber the air has become charged with all the watery 
products of the physiological activity of the patient. It is again 
conducted to the refrigerator ND by the trough D, where it 
passes through two coppsr cylinders, which have been previously 
carefully weighed. These cylinders are plunged into a chloride 
of calcium bath at a temperature of — 20 ° C. 

The air deposits in these cylinders all the water that it contains 
with the exception of a very small fraction which may be esti- 
mated by analysis, as will be shown. The increase in weight of these 
copper cylinders gives the weight of the water, formed in the 
respiratory chamber, carried away by the air issuing from it, and 
condensed in the cooled cylinders. ^ 

Thus deprived of the greater part of its water, the air passes 
eventually into a pump which sucks it in and measures it. At 
the same time, a fraction equal to the fiftieth part of its volume 
is deducted automatically in order to determine by an «xact 
analysis the quantities of oxygen lost, of carbonic acid formed 
and of water remaining. From time to time similar analyses 
of the air are made before it is admitted into the calorimetric 
chamber. 

The experiments destined to control the value and accuracy 
of the results given by this delicate and complicated apparatus 
were made by burning pure alcohol in the calorimetric chamber. 
It was found possible to recover 999 per cent, of the heat produced 
by its combustion, the alcohol having been previously measured by 
means of the 6om6e calorimetrique (7-067 Calories per grm. of pure 
alcohol). Atwater is convinced that the air issuing from the cal- 
orimetric chamber would yield, in the same way, 99-9 per cent. 

* Naturally, in the calculation of Calories produced in the respiratory 
chamber, we must add to those which have been collected by the water 
which circulates there, the quantities of heat which correspond to the 
vaporization of expired and perspired water collected in the refrigerating 
copper cylinder of the trough D. 

67 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of carbon and 100-6 percent, (theoretic) of the hydrogen burnt in 
the respiratory room. Finally, out of tliirteen experiments 
yielding, according to a calculation of the calorigenic coeflficients, 
a daily average of 2,727 Calories, it was possible to recover 2,722 
Calories — that is to say, the exact quantity to about a two- 
thousandth part. 

As regards numerical results, I will only give here those which 
Atwater pubhshed in 1902. The experiments were made on 
four people working in his laboratory.^ 

E. 0., a Swede, assistant in the laboratory, age 32, weight 
70 kilos. ; A. W. S., assistant in physics, age 25, also weigh- 
ing about 70 kilos. ; 0. F. T., chemist, age 24, weighing 
60 kilos. ; J. F. S., chemist, Canadian, age 20, weighing 65 kilos. 
While the subjects under observation were at rest, they did nothing 
but make their beds, pass out their excreta by the aperture B, 
and take a few notes. The rest of the time was occupied in writing, 
reading or sleeping. In the working state, they worked on a 
fixed bicycle for about 8 hours, a sufficiently fatiguing form of 
exercise though not excessively so. 

The table on the following page gives a few of the results 
obtained. {See the whole of this series of experiments, p. 70). 

These interesting researches are very important from many 
points of view. They have been repeated, and corroborative 
results have been obtained by both Atwater and his pupils. They 
prove primarily by an experimental method that, as M. Berthelot 
states, the maintenance of organic life does not rob the organism of 
any part of its energy. In the case of patients Hving, working, 
sleeping, thinking, in Atwater's calorimetric chamber, the sum 
of the energy expended daily and registered outside the apparatus 
is exactly the same as that which would have resulted if these 
same food-stuffs had been transformed into the same products 
by combustion or any other process. Measured by the calori- 
meter, this energy may be stated as 2,727 Calories on an average 
per twenty-four hours. As we have just seen, it is actually 
represented by almost identical figures (allowing for a slight ex- 
perimental error) namely 2,722 Calories. 

A man in normal activity expends no energy which is not 
represented by production of some sort. For instance, muscle is 
able to transform into labour the latent energy given by food. 
But this labour, if it is inversely converted into heat, will reproduce 
the same amount of energy as that which would have resulted 
if the food had been converted into the same products, labour 
and heat, by means of the calorimeter or any other agency. No 
fraction of the chemical energy transformed into labour — which 

1 Experiments on the Metabolism of Matter and Energy in the Human 
Body (1898-1900), by Atwater and Benedict; Washington, 1902. 

68 



•peonpojd 






<35 ■* lO * ■»< 

t^ ■* 00 t--. * 

<N 5<1 O O N 
(M C<) <M (M N 



5fl e^ 05 d "3 t~ t^ 
<N eo 00 <N ® 00 00 

I> 05 lO Til lO tJI 50 

c*5 CO ro CO c*i CO co 



JO ui [•jBiuoiua 
am <y} iiiipaooov 






•«W JO sso| 



C<5«3®-H(3JCOO5-*>-H00 
^t^C0»t^O>lO(N00<©t- 
•5 -H (N -< -H (N IN 10 i-« 

■^ ' I + + + + + + + + 



■* Cq CO t^ <*• 

o •* -* ® * 

CO 'N O O N 
(N (N (M <M N 

■* 10 CO 00 10 
CO 00 CO o » 
<N CO <N e^ T< 

I ++++ 



05 — ^ 10 Oi CO 05 t^ 
(N O -^ CO t^ (N •<*' 
00 05 «5 ■* lO ® to 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 

«5 ■<»< t^ — < CO -"j" (M 
K5 t^ <N lO CO CO •-< 
■^ CO W f"^ CO CO CO 

I I I I I I I 



JO iiiij:Saq) }o 



• G^l CO -L, (N -^ CO t- .—(00 

,111 



I I I I I + I 



(M -H O ?0 00 
CO -H (N (N e^ 

I + M I 



O t^ 00 CO ■>* ■* •* 

-* -< (N l-H -H 10 -H 

+ I I I I I I 



'Baoa^j 9i\i JO 



05 05 CO ^ !N to 10 
CO ^^ Oi ^ ■^ (N CO 



ajiO— t^t^— 15OCOCO-H1H 

ri50-<toot— r->oioioo«D 

<N(N<N<M(M(M(M(NCO0« 



Tf ® o 05 eo 

CO OS OS 00 00 

<M 00 ^ T)t » 

(N (M IN e^i N 



.OOCOCOlNINOSlOOt^'l' Oi •* •* CC to 



I I + + + + + + + + I + + + + 



00 IN t- >0 t^ CO ■* 
t— 50 00 05 00 05 00 
«0 00 ■*■*■*■* "O 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 



■* t^ 00 05 OS O O 



+M' 



(-) S80J 
JO 

1+) nrao 



•8}.inpojd 

XjO^VJKlHdJ JO f 



.INOOtOOSt^TjlcOt^W 
:-*(NOcocb-HiN-H'^io 



to a> >o >o 00 

lo -^ CO ■* "i* 



I I 



I 1 i + I I + I I I 



M •* t:~ O «0 ■* — < F-i O th O t^ t^ M 00 
«obt^-H(N(N-*IN56i>i-l (N-H<£>^0 

■=> I I ++++++++ I ++++ 



-833a!j am JO 



■spooj am JO 



. t^ to «5 to » IN CO ■* OS 00 Tji to -H t^ ■<-< 

s-H>i4-4ico-*iot^tboob t--tbxiO«b 

ncO-<IN(N-HO©-^COi^ rtrtOS— !■<-< 

»!N (NIN<N<NINlN(Nff^ej INtN-HlNOJ 



«00t-tO-*00r-<-i*(NIC<O 

-cotbocO'^'Hi^-ooo 



O t- ■* o OS 
OS OS OS o o 



05— 4I:^tOOOOOOOSt^* 



(M OS <N 00 t- 



lOOt-O-^INlOOS-^OSCO 

:'*-Ht-«o'o-*coTj<osu5 

«IN S<l(N<NIN(NS^<N(Ne(I 



10 O CO 10 00 

^ t^ CO •* * 
IN (N (N (N e« 



•(-)»soi 

JO 

(+) n.«0 



•aiiun am jo 



.t-OSOtOi— lOSOCOCOOO 

ill I I I I I + I 



OS CO to t^ 00 



00000 

I + I I I 



; -H t- US -* >0 10 IN O <N >0 

• obi^-dsobdsdstbdsobob 



■^ ^ Tji CO CO 
10 to lib lo t- 



OS O O CO O OS -^ 
to CO lb <N lb —I CO 

+ I I I I 7 I 



■* O 00 CO (N OS OS 
CO IN O CO OS IN to 
CO CO IN >— IN CO IN 
I I I I I I I 



(N to OS 00 to ■* OS 

K5 iri ■* lb >b "b OS 



Tji N CO >-< to to (N 
<N O 00 00 (N ^ M 

rt IN rt -H -H 



t^ 10 to 10 O l> 00 

to CO CO -^ O lb tb 



f— I 10 00 CO 00 OS 10 

+ I I I I I I 



10 — < o to t^ t^ ■* 
» 00 to >b "b to CO 



« 


tOCOOStOlO'-ilNC-l 


00 


as 


00 OS OS * 


lO t;- <N CIS to t^ 

IN IN -^ 6 -^ >^ -^ 


^ 


u 


-HCOCOINCOlOININ 


" 


N 


c^ 


-HON 


N 




— < rt 








O O -H S-1 N 



•spooj aq'j JO 



i— it-OO-HOOt^-HOOOOftO 

pdstboosdsob'bdsdseb 



lO t- OS 00 o 
lb t-- >b lb ob 



10 IN 00 00 IN <N CO 
f^ (N O 6 -H rt t-H 



-^ 00 O -H — I O (N 
OS OS to CO to to «> 



CfiH 



OS ^ 



=0 8 



i^ T* 

io 



-^^ >» 



.oS, 



o ■ — • .S f^ 



fel 



CO •* CO I M) i 






E ©te- • 



<! <ii-i 



m f4 



*- 




S 




,0 

• eS 


^ 





"0 


"S 




1= 


ID 

J3 


00 
1 


1 





2. 


C 


« 


1 


IB 




a> 




bf 


m 


6( 




a) 


ftes 




"w 


- a, 
> 


IS 


> 




K 



<i; 




<! 







69 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

constitutes the life, the function of the muscular organ — is 
lost. 

Because this phenomenon, whatever may be its cause or its 
mechanism, consists simply in the power to convert energy 
from its passive chemical form into its active mechanical 
form. The same thing applies to nervous centres. Energy 
there is translated into feeling or thought but it is not exhausted 
in the process. The energy which is expended in the produc- 
tion of thought, judgment, comparison, reasoning, still continues 
to exist and, as Atwater's figures go to show, is found again un- 
diminished at its exit from the brain. This is true even of 
the psychic phenomena of conscience, judgment or wiU power. 

Atwater made one of these experiments, which lasted six days, 
to find out the influence of these psychic phenomena on the 
balance of energy. 

A young American student, aged 26, was put into the 
respiratory chamber. The first period of two days was devoted 
to muscular exercise. During the second the subject remained 
in bed, eating, sleeping, and making only necessary movements. 
He devoted the two last days to the study of physics and 
pure mathematics. During these three periods the subject 
received an unvaried diet. In each case, mechanical work, rest or 
intellectual work, the quantity of heat proceeding from the appar- 
atus corresponded exactly to the amount introdiiced by the foods. 

If, therefore, the mechanical acts had disappeared, transformed 
by the dynamo into their equivalent in heat, the psychic acts — 
or their resultants, comparison, judgment, memory — would have 
persisted without having sensibly borrowed anytliing from the 
energy supplied by food. 

In summing up all the experiments made up to the present 
time, that is to say, 155 days passed by subjects in the calorimeter, 
Atwater is able to affirm that 450,000 Calories thus collected by 
him in the course of the activity of subjects under examination 
represents, to nearly 50 Calories (allowing for a slight experi- 
mental error of one eight-thousandth) all the energy introduced 
into the calorimeter under the form of food. 

Atwater's researches, as the above table shows, demonstrate 
experimentally that life — that is to say, the ordered succession of 
functional acts necessary to the preservation of the individual 
and to the harmonious working of his organs — in its various 
manifestations, does not consume any portion of its material 
energy, and is therefore not equivalent to it. 

From quite another point of view, these experiments establish 
the fact that the average adult man, weighing from 60 to 70 
kgs., living at ease, at a temperature of about 17° C, and taking 
care to avoid all work and all unnecessary movement, requires 
about 2,250 Calories per day — that is to say, 33 Calories per kg. 

70 



ATWATER'S DETERMINATIONS 

It was seen in the preceding chapters that an adult hving in 
the open air and taking moderate exercise without actual work, 
has need of 38 to 39 Calories per day for every kg. of his weight. 
This slight excess — five to six Calories per kg. in the case of a 
man who takes a little exercise — is perfectly reasonable. 

The experiments of Atwater permit of the amount of alimentary 
waste caused by labour to be calculated directly and with pre- 
cision. They show that for a moderate amount of work, not ex- 
cessive, of eight hours per day, a supplement of about 1,400 Calories 
is necessary. We shall return later to this important point. 

These interesting observations have also permitted us to prove 
by means of experiment, a fact which had already been established 
in an abstract form, namely that the transformation of food into 
its equivalent in energy is independent of the nature of the 
intermediate physical states, whether chemical or vital. If the 
subject under experiment changes neither in nature nor in weight, 
this transformation must be the same as that which would be pro- 
duced by these foods if they were transformed in the calorimeter 
into the excretory products rejected by the Hving subject. 

In the hght of these experiments it is now possible — perhaps 
for the first time with accuracy in the case of man, at least — 
to regulate the balance between the various animal functions : 
the quantity of oxygen consumed, of carbonic acid and water 
produced, of proteid matters and fat lost or gained in each 
case of the subject, and the comparison between the amount 
of latent energy lost and that of the caloric energy produced in the 
same period of time. These gains or losses of albuminoids or of 
fats are given in columns 11 and 12 of the above table. It will 
be seen that the loss in proteids has remained almost unchanged, 
whether the subjects under experiment were at work or in 
repose, the variation being from only 3-5 to 5 grms. a day. 
This merely indicates that the dietetic regime of those particular 
patients was poor in nitrogenous matters. But a characteristic 
point is that, during repose, they all stored up fat which they as 
invariably lost during work, the average quantity being 33 
grms. in excess of what they received by means of food. This 
is an experimental illustration of the formula that work 
originates in the destruction, not of the muscular body, but of 
the fats and other ternary matters. 

The experiments of Atwater once more established the fact, as 
proved by Boussingault, Pettenkoffer and C. Voit, that almost 
the entire quantity of nitrogen contained in the food of a healthy 
animal is found again in its excretions, Uquid and solid. 

The observations of the same authority have given more exact 
figures than any previously pubhshed with regard to the propor- 
tions in which every kind of alimentary principle is utilized by a 
man in health. These figures are given on p. 59. They show that 

71 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

every alimentary element yields different quantities of heat, 
according to whether it is of animal or vegetable origin, and 
according to the regime to which it contributes. 

The table on p. 43 gives the coefficients of utilization for every 
food and for every ahmentary principle, whether albuminoid, 
fat or starch, the coefficient varying with the regime. We shall 
return to this point in the following chapter. 

Finally, Atwater's experiments definitely establisli the fact 
that certain substances, reputed by certain authorities to be 
toxic in their properties and by others to be at least useless and 
non-alimentary — alcohol, for instance — are consumed almost 
entirely in the economy, while others, on the contrary, although 
combustible, are not utilized by the economy in the production 
of energy, but exercise a stimulating influence on the nerves. 
We shall return to these interesting points in Part II of this 
Work. 



72 



VIII 

ALIMENTARY EQUIVALENTS — ISODYNAMIC RATIONS^LIMITS OF 
MUTUAL SUBSTITUTION OF ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES — INDIS- 
PENSABLE MINIMUM OF ALBUMINOIDS 

WE have established by different methods the ration of 
maintenance, that is to say, the average aUmentary 
ration of civiUzed man hving in health, in a temperate chmate 
and in a state of ease, or at least of relative ease. Before examin- 
ing how this ration should be varied according as the subject 
hves in a glacial or warm temperature ; whether he works instead 
of resting ; whether he is a child, a young or an old man, in good 
health or an invalid, etc. ; it is right to ask if the daily ration 
and the manner of feeding generally adopted would not result from 
unnatural habits, from customs which have become gradually 
vitiated ; if the manner of feeding adopted by human agglomer- 
ations, by populations, by towns hke London, Berhn or Paris, 
cannot be advantageously modified and made perfect, and by 
what character one could recognize the benefit estabhshed by 
these modifications, whether in the quantity of the food or in 
its character. 

It appears to me, that in order to solve this deUcate problem, 
there are two incontestable principles which should enlighten and 
guide us. The first is that the daily ration ought, in every case, 
to bring the individual the amount of energy indispensable to 
the carrying on of his functions, and that from this point of view 
all modifications of diet or substitution of one principle for another 
ought to be equivalent ; the second is that all change in diet, in 
quantity or quahty, should have as a guarantee of its utihty, or 
at IcEist of its harmlessness, the maintenance in a state of health 
and of functional activity of the individual or of the communities 
which have adopted it. 

Let us first ascertain what are the ahmentary equivalences of 
the energy which they represent. 

Isodynamics of Alimentary Rations. — The quantity of useful 
energy put at the disposal of the animal by each food, is measured 
by the number of Calories produced in the economy by the com- 
bustion or destruction of the whole of tliis food, which is really 
absorbed in the intestines. 

The utilizable alimentary energy of the total ration is measured 
by the sum of the partial energies thus determined, and can be 
expressed in Calories. 

73 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Whatever their relative compositions may be, two aUmentary 
rations will be called isodynamic, if their total energy corresponds 
to the same number of Calories thus calculated [Rubner). 

The quantities of two or several alimentary principles will be 
called isodynamic, or isodynamically equivalent, when by their 
combustion or the definite modifications undergone in traversing 
the body of the animal, a similar amount of disposable energy will 
result. 

Reciprocally, if the animal does not change in weight or per- 
ceptibly in chemical constitution, a certain quantity of an element 
(sugar for example) can be replaced in its ration by a quantity 
of some other element, such as fat, starch or albumin, so that a 
similar amount of energy under the form of heat or exterior work 
is produced in both cases. Isodynamic quantities is the name 
given to the alimentary principles which, under these conditions, 
can be mutually replaced. According to Riibner, the quantities 
of the following ahmentary principles are isodynamic : — 



Corresponding heat produced 
in tlie Organism. 



Fat ... . 
Muscular albumin 
Legvimin 
Cane-sugar 
Glucose 




930 Cals. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 



On the other hand, as we have said in Chapter VI, concerning 
the measure of alimentary energy, Atwater, shghtly correcting 
Riibner's figures, arrived at the following results, which indicate 
the number of Calories produced in the system, varying 
according to the origin of the food, by the dissimilation of 
1 grm. of alimentary matter : 



Proteid matters 



l" Animal 
Food -! Vegetable 
(^ Mixed 

(Animal 
Vegetable 
Mixed 



Practical calorific 
coefficients. 
4-25 Cals. 
355 
400 
8-95 
835 
8-90 
400 
360 



Fatty matters 

Starchy matters 
Assimilable sugars 

Furnished with these practical coefficients, if one would know 
the X isodynamic quantities of each of the alimentary principles, 
for example those which, in passing through the economy, will 
produce 100 Calories, representing by M the coefficients above, 
we shall have in each case : 

,, ,^^ , 100 

xM = 100 hence x 



M 



74 



EQUIVALENCE OF ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES 



By applying this formula, we shall 
of isodynamic quantities of each of 
able to produce 100 utilizable Calories, 
animal organism. 



obtain the following table 
the alimentary principles 
while passing through the 







Quantities producing 
100 Calories 

while being destroyed 
in the system. 






2353 grms. 
2819 „ 






250 








1118 








11-97 








11-23 








25-00 








27-78 





Protekl matters of animal origin 

„ „ vegetable origin 

„ „ mixed origin . 

Fatty matters of animal origin 

„ „ vegetable origin . 

„ „ mixed origin 

Starchy matters 
Assimilable sugars 

In all these calculations one must remember to deduct, in 
practice, the somewhat variable fraction for each alimentary 
principle which is not utilized in the intestinal tube, and which, 
in the case of mixed foods, diminishes the result of the general 
calculation by about 5-5 per cent, according to Riibner, and 45 
per cent, according to Atwater. 

The isodynamic regimes being those which produce by destruc- 
tion, quantities of equivalent energy in the economy, it is easy 
to estimate them, as we have just seen, by using Riibner's or 
Atwater's coefficients. 

But are the isodynamic regimes, composed according to the 
rules which we have just considered, equally efficacious ? In 
particular, can a considerable quantity of fat, sugar, starch be 
replaced isodynamically in the alimentary region, the one by the 
other in isodynamous quantities and, above all, can they be re- 
placed by their isodynamic weights of albumin, and reciprocally ? 

This question is of great practical and theoretical interest. 
Practical, because the market value of each kind of food differs 
according to its origin ; the cost of albuminoid foods used by man 
and animals is generally much higher than that of fat or starchy 
foods calculated by isodynamic weight, and because the net cost of 
ahmentary regimes influence in a large measure the composi- 
tion, the quantity, and in consequence the efficacy, of the regimes 
generally adopted. Theoretical, because it is important to 
know : 1st, if there is a minimum of albuminoid matter below 
which normal ahmentation is impossible and, in the case where it 
exists, to what physiological necessity this minimum responds. 
2nd, in the case where substitution, - at least partial, of the 
proteid elements would be possible, it is necessary to determine 
in what measure and proportion the nitrogenous fats, sugars and 
starchy matters can mutually replace themselves. 

As has already been said, it is not possible for an animal to 
create the whole of its constitutive albuminous elements. On the 

75 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



contrary, it continually destroys those of which it is formed, and 
the incessant secretion of urea is a proof of this dissimilation. It 
is then necessary for us to provide the animal with the albuminoids 
which it cannot do without, and which it cannot manufacture 
with the fat elements or the carbo-hydrates, even if they are 
accompanied by nitrogenous organic products nearest to the 
albuminoid bodies, or the more or less complex amides such as 
tyrosin, leucin, glutamin, asparagin,^ etc. 

If these albuminoid matters are necessary, are they sufficient ? 
Provided that an animal is fed with a superabundance of muscular 
flesh, for example, is it possible to entirely abolish the non- 
nitrogenous ternary substances, sugars, starches, fats ? C. 
Voit,2 C. Voit and Bischoff, Pettenkoffer and Voit,^ and Pfliiger * 
have tried to feed dogs with lean meat only. They have suc- 
ceeded, and the animals have often Uved under these conditions 
for several months and have even, during this period, done a 
considerable amount of work. But all these experimenters have 
remarked that, in this case, the quantity of muscular flesh neces- 
sary to nourish the animal while keeping up its weight is very 
considerable, a great part of the food being destroyed and unassi- 
milated in order to reproduce the fat which always tends to 
disappear and the sugar which is incessantly consumed in mus- 
cular contraction. If one further increases the quantity of meat, 
it is thrown out in nature, as the analysis of the faeces and the 
proportional non-absorption of oxygen indicate. This is demon- 
strated by the following figures, for which we are indebted to C. 
Voit: 

Enbichment or Loss of the Economy (Dog) submitted to an 
Exclusive Diet of Lean Meat. 



Lean 

meat 

introduced 

daily. 


Destroyed albu- 
minoid matter 
calculated 
after the 
eliminated 
nitrogen. 

grms. 
165 


Gains ( + ) or 
losses ( — ) 

in the 

economy of 

nitrogenous 

matter. 

grms. 
-165 


Gains ( -1- ) or 
losses ( — ) 

in the 

economy 

of body 

fat. 


Oxygen 
absorbed. 


Oxygen 
necessary 
to oxidize 

the lost 
. matters. 


grms. 



grms. 
-95 


grms. 
330 


grms. 
329 


500 


599 


- 99 


-47 


341 


332 


1000 


1079 


- 79 


-19 


453 


398 


1500 


1500 


00 


+ 4 


487 


477 


1800 


1757 


+ 43 


+ ^ ] 
+ 68 } 

+ 27 J 




592 


2000 


2044 


- 44 


517 


524 


2500 


2512 


- 12 


(average) 


688 



' Weiskie and Muiik have shown that asparagin possesses an economic 
action over the existing albuminoids, but it carmot replace them. M. 
Fiquet has established (in my laboratory) that the amides derived from the 
very careful hydrolysis of the albuminoids could no longer replace them. 

2 Zeitsch. f. Biolog., Bd. V, pp. 344, 444 ; Bd. X, p. 223. 

3 Ibid., Bd. VII, p. 133. * Annates of Pfliiger, Bd. I, p. 98. 

76 



MAINTENANCE OF EQUILIBRIUM 

These experiments show that it has been possible to keep a 
dog (weight 35 kgs.) in a state of albuminoid or nitrogenous equili- 
brium whilst feeding him with meat only, but to do this it was 
necessary that the quantity given should be as much as 1,500 
grms. a day ; whereas with a normal mixed diet, 530 grms. 
only of muscular flesh suffices for a man of twice the weight. 
The numbers show also that, proceeding from 1,500 to 1,800 
grms., if the muscular tissue freed from fat is still increased, the 
animal, far from profiting by it, loses the albuminoid nitrogen 
whilst gaining a Httle fat. 

On the other hand, we see that if the organism of the subject 
studied had formerly been submitted to a diet poor in proteid 
matters, his daily loss in nitrogen would be diminished and from 
that time a smaller quantity of albuminoids would suffice to 
maintain the nitrogenous equiUbrium. Briefly, the maintenance 
of this equihbrium is the ordinary function of the animal. If it 
has been previously impoverished in albumin, it will lose a little of 
it each day, and a minimum quantity of alimentary contributions 
will cover this loss ; if, on the contrary, before tlie experiment, it 
had received an abundant quantity of nitrogenized foods, and so 
acquired as much nitrogen as it could possibly store, the gain in 
nitrogen would only be very slight or nil, and its losses would 
vary very nearly at will with the quantities of alimentary albumin- 
oids. This is indeed the result of C. Voit's experiments. 

The minimum ration of albumin necessary to maintain the 
nitrogenous equilibrium of the subject, depends on his present 
state and his former method of nutrition, and the experiments 
made relative to this determination should only be performed on 
subjects in perfect health who have been normally fed for 
several days and whose weight does not vary. 

We see how much these conditions tend to real doubt, and how 
much uncertainty and difficulty is presented by the method of 
fixing the nutritive balance according to the conditions which 
maintain the nitrogenized and carbonated equilibrium of the 
subject we experiment upon. 

But there are still other causes of indetermination. 

By a mechanism which in a measure escapes us, the animal, 
whether it receives it or not by its foods, tends always to store up 
a reserve of fat. If then this is already sufficient, the quantity 
of albumin stored up by an exclusive or preponderant diet of 
lean meat, wiU increase more than if the animal had already 
exhausted its fats. In other words, a smaller quantity of albumin 
will be necessary to the fat animal to attain its nitrogenized 
equilibrium. 

Fat exercises then an economic action on the consumption of 
alimentary matters. An average ration of meat which maintains 
the nitrogenized equihbrium will cause at the same time a deposit 

77 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of muscular flesh and fat, if one adds to the regime an excess of 
these latter materials. 

Reciprocally, an excess of flesh food will increase the fatty 
reserves by the same quantity of body fat introduced. 

But, whatever may be the initial state of the organism, feeding 
exclusively on albuminoids cannot contribute long to increase 
the reserves, whether proteid or fat, of the animal, and a diet com- 
posed exclusively of flesh soon becomes repugnant and injurious. 
The same thing happens in a man as in a dog. Experimenting on 
himself, J. Ranke, who was fat and relatively poor in flesh, was 
able to take during two days 2,000 grms. of meat in twenty-four 
hours, but from the third day, although well served and appetizing 
in appearance, the meat provoked nausea, headache, and 
he could only absorb about 1,280 grms. These quantities of 
albuminoids would have been less nauseating if Ranke had been 
thinner and if, by very active physical exercise, he had con- 
stantly burnt up the fats which that incessant advent of com- 
pound proteid matters in excess tended to accumulate in his 
tissues. 

All the albuminoid substances : fibrin, gelatin, powdered lean 
meat, etc., have led to the same results. When given exclusively 
to man or animals (above all in the case of subjects at rest) they 
have not been able to support them for long, and great difficulty 
has been found in maintaining the nitrogenized equihbrium by 
their means. 

On the contrary, if to a purely meat diet one adds some fat, 
sugar, starch, bread, vegetables, not only all disgust disappears, but 
the quantity of albuminoids necessary to compensate for the losses 
of the economy in nitrogen, diminishes considerably. In a word, 
as we have already said, the ternary substances pave the way 
for tlie nitrogenized assimilation and lessen the dissimilation 
of the proteid substances. This is what the following figures, 
relating to Voit's experiments upon himself and the observations 
of Forster, show : 



Absorbed meat. 


Starchy 
matters. 


Fats. 


Dissimilated 
albuminoids. 


1 

grms. 

C. Voit: 1 

1 day 2000 

5 days .... 2000 
Next 6 days . . . 2000 

Forster : 
4 days .... 500 
Next 3 days ... 500 




250 











250 

300 



2044 
1793 
1883 

436 
522 



Fat, sugar and many other carbo-hydrates favour then the 

78 



NECESSITY OF TERNARY PRINCIPLES 

assimilation of proteid substances or hinder their dissimilation, 
and, reciprocally, these can to a certain point be substituted for 
ternary matters. 

Even in a state of absolute rest, an animal destroys a part of 
its albuminoids, and as it cannot reproduce these substances 
entirely, it is necessary that alimentation should continually 
provide him with them. In a state of rest and abstinence, even 
when prolonged, man and animals excrete daily a quantity of 
urea which is about the half of that which they would throw off 
if they fed normally. The result of this remark would seem to 
be that if, in the ordinary state, 107 grms. of albumin are suitable 
for the adult, 50 to 55 grms. ought to suffice to repair his nitro- 
genized tissues if he remains in absolute repose. But this is not 
absolutely the case as will be shown. 

Experience has shown that whatever the quantity of ternary 
matters (sugar, fat, starch) introduced by ahmentation, one 
never goes so far as to protect the animal against the dissimilation 
of its albuminoid tissues. If carnivora and omnivora are fed 
exclusively on carbo-hydrates or fats, they perish rapidly, nearly 
as quickly as if they had been submitted to a regime of complete 
inanition {Magendie). They consume their nitrogenized tissues, 
while sometimes laying up a small store of fat, and die as if they 
had been starved. But as soon as one adds to this exclusive 
diet a little meat, the excretion of urea diminishes immediately, 
their weight increases and they grow fat. Thus a small quantity 
of albumin would appear to be sufficient for their needs. But 
this proportion cannot be inferior, nor even strictly equal, to 
that which they lose during inanition. Munk has demonstrated 
this by giving to a dog with a diet sufficiently strong in carbo- 
hydrates and fats, the exact quantity of meat necessary to repair 
its daily losses in nitrogen. The nitrogenized equilibrium main- 
tains itself, it is true, but at the end of some weeks, the animal 
is seized with intestinal troubles, he can no longer digest the 
ahmentary fats, he becomes jaundiced, he refuses nourishment 
and dies. It is because in this diet, the stimulant of the trophic 
centres, meat and its extracts, is insufficient. Besides, variety 
is wanting, and without doubt, it no longer brings such or such 
specific elements in sufficient quantity or under forms which 
are suitable to the functioning of certain organs. 

In ahmentation, the carbohydrates can replace the fats almost 
entirely, and, reciprocally, the fats can be substituted almost 
completely for the carbo-hydrates. But these last substances 
protect the albumin of the tissues against dissimilation in a 
manner much more powerful than a similar quantity of fats, as 
the following figures show : 



79 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Flesh 
absorbed. 


Ternary substances 
absorbed. 


Albuminoid 

tissues 
disappeared. 


Gains or losses of the 
organism in albuminoids. 


grms. 
500 
500 

800 
800 

2000 
2000 


grms. 
250 fat 
300 starch 

250 carbo-hydrates 
200 fat 

250 carbo-hydrates 
250 fat 


558 
466 

745 
773 

1792 
1883 


- 68 
+ 34 

+ 55 

+ 27 

+ 208 
+ 117 



Moreover, the carbo-hydrates are not only opposed to the 
dissimilation of the albuminoids of the system, but also to that 
of the fats, the weight of which they even contribute to increase. 

Sugars and starches do not appear to be, however, absolutely 
necessary. In certain cases, and thanks to custom, man can 
nourish himself almost exclusively on fat meats. It is so with 
the Esquimaux, the Greenlanders, the Ostiaks, the inhabitants 
of the borders of the Red Sea, the keepers of the flocks on the 
American pampas, who live almost entirely on the products of 
their fishing and hunting. 

The fat of the meats which they consume and the small pro- 
portion of glycogen which accompanies them is sufficient to make 
them assimilate the proteid substance. It follows then that we 
can accustom ourselves to live on fat meat, but cannot fail to 
recognize the fact that man, by his teeth, his digestive organs, 
his tastes, is omnivorous and frugivorous, and that the capacity 
to live exclusively on meat is an exception created by necessity. 

From this discussion we shall conclude that if albuminoid 
matters alone are absolutely indispensable in food, their good 
assimilation and utihzation can only be realized in the presence 
of the ternary bodies : fats, sugars and starchy substances. 
Thanks to their combination in the relation of 100 parts of the 
first to 400 to 450 of the second, the animal maintains his weight 
and health with a minimum of alimentary expense, and while 
acquiring, as we shall see, the maximum of resistance to illness 
and of production in mechanical labour. 

Isoglycosic and Isodynamic Regimes. — M. Chauveau, basing 
his theory on his remarkable observations which show that only 
glucose which burns in the working muscle is the direct and 
nearly unique principle in the production of mechanical energy, 
considers that the equivalence of foods from the standpoint of 
their capability to furnish work, ought to be calculated according 
to the quantity of glucose that these foods are able to contribute 
to produce in the economy. The figures of Riibner and At water, 
proportional only to the calorific energy furnished by the foods, 

8o 



MINIMUM OF ALBUMINOIDS NECESSARY 

are in the estimation of M. Cliauveau, only isothermic coefficients ; 
the real isodynamic coefficients should be calculated according 
to the isoglycogenic power of each alimentary principle. I 
give below the isoglycogenic weights of the fundamental prin- 
ciples, according to this author, compared with their isodynamic 
weights. The isothermic and isodynamic coefficients of fat being 
the highest, we will take this as our unit in both cases : 





Isodynamic weights. 


Isoglycosic weights. 


Albvunin 

Fat 

Starch 

Saccharose .... 
Glucose 


2-35 grammes 

100 

2-29 

2-35 

2-55 


2 01 grammes 

100 

1-46 

1-53 

1-61 



Thus, according to M. Chauveau, 1 grm. of fat or 1-53 grm. of 
saccharose would be able to produce in the system, the first by 
oxidation, the second by reduction, the quantity of 1-61 grm. of 
glucose or 1-45 grm. of glycogen. In the light of this fact these 
quantities are isoglycogenic and isodynamic. They would be 
also isodynamous with 201 gr. of albumin, a quantity which can 
produce by combustion in the economy 1 grm. of fat. 

The isodynamic value of a food according to M. Chauveau, 
should equal in weight each of its constitutive principles multi- 
plied by its isoglycosic equivalent. It will thus be seen : 1st, 
that the isoglycosic equivalents of M. Chauveau appear somewhat 
vague : 2nd, the very principle which he urges does not seem 
to have been conclusively demonstrated. 

Minimum Quantity of Albuminoids Necessary to the Daily 
Ration. — We have just seen that the albuminoid substances 
cannot be supplemented in the alimentary ration, but that 
according to the actual state of the subject and the nature of 
the ternary bodies which enter into his regime, the nitrogenized 
equilibrium can maintain itself with quantities of very different 
proteid matters. Owing to this, F. Hirschfeld, who weighed 
73 kgs., was able to place himself in a nitrogenized equilibrium, 
thanks to a diet which only contained 43-3 grms. of albumin, a 
day, but on condition that he took at the same time 165 grms. 
of butter and 350 grms. of carbohydrates. Again, in two sub- 
jects weighing respectively 64 and 65 kgs., Klemperer was able 
to maintain the nitrogenized equilibrium with an expense of 
30 grms. of albumin only, while administering daily the excessive 
quantities of 262 grms. of fat, 406 grms. of carbo-hydrates and 
199 grms. of alcohol. 

Thus, with some exceptional diets, we can greatly vary the 
quantity of proteid matters sufficient to maintain the nitro- 
genized equilibrium. 

8l Q 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



On the other hand, it has been shown that it is a matter of 
some importance whether these albuminoids are of animal or 
vegetable origin. The intestinal utilization of the latter is only 
eighty-seven hundredths or even eighty-three hundredths of 
that of the former. Thus, it is essential to distinguish between 
the two when calculating the maximum quantity of albuminoids 
necessary in twenty-four hours. 

With so many causes of variation, it would be better to consult 
the facts once more before fixing the minimum of albuminoids. 

During the Siege of Paris (1870-71), the quantity of albuminoids 
absorbed by the population, to a large extent deprived of meat, 
vegetables and bread, was certainly less than half of the usual 
quantity, the official ration was indeed fixed at 30 grms. of horse- 
flesh and 120 grms. of bread of a very bad quality, foods to which 
each inhabitant could, if he had any supplies, add a little 
fat, rice, various preserved fruits, wine, alcohol, etc. With 
such a severe ration, the general health of the healthy part of 
the population was wall maintained in spite of a rigorous winter 
and various epidemics. The battalions of soldiers guarding 
the trenches during the very cold months of December 1870, 
and January 1871, formed of young men of 21 years, badly 
clothed, giving themselves up to work often very laborious, 
received the following diet as I have ascertained from the note- 
books of the Administration which distributed the provisions. 
I have completed these data by including small purchases 
of food which these young soldiers added themselv^es to their 
meagre rations. I give below the result of my inquiry on this 
subject in tabular form : 



Food per day. 


Weight of 
the fresh 
aliments. 


Proteid 
matters. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Fresh meat (or 100 grms. of pre- 
served meat) 
Rice (or beans, very seldom) . 

Soldiers' bread 

Biscuit 

Fat 

C!offee (officially delivered) 

„ (bought by the men) . 

Sugar (officially delivered) 

„ (bought by the men). 

Wine 

Brandy 


grins. 
175 

80 

250 

250 
20 
30) 
25/ 
20 
20 

125 ) 

75(»)/ 


grms. 
35 

4-4 
17-51 
22-5 [ 

33 


grms. 
9-45 

04 
2-85 
19 


grms. 
0-87 

64 
251-9 

6-50 
39 
964 


Totals 


— 


82-8 1 31-70 


457-4 



Thus, although suffering a little from hunger, but generally 

* Wine and brandy are calculated here in corresponding carbo-hydrates, 

82 



MINIMUM OF ALBUMINOIDS NECESSARY 

in good health, these young people were able to withstand a very 
cold winter, with about 83 grms. of albuminoids, the proportion 
of animal origin per day being 35 grms. only.^ 

The total of their ration corresponded to 2,470 Calories. 

According to the composition of portions and half portions 
distributed to the workmen frequenting the popular restaurants 
of Berlin, Hirschfeld thus estimates the average nourishment 
of the poor population of Northern Germany : 



Daily.2 


Average 

weight 

moist 

substances. 

grms. 
650 

600 
80 
50 


Average 

weiglit 

dry 

substances. 


Albu- 
minoid 
matters. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Principal repast (from 12 to 
2 o'clock ; half portions) 

Bread 

Fat and butter .... 

Cheese 

Coffee in the morning and 
soup in the evening 


grms. 
150 

390 


grms. 
25 

41 

14 

8 


grms. 
15 

6 

72 

3 

4 


grms. 
80 

300 



60 


Totals 


88 


100 


440 



This population, generally healthy, appears then to satisfy 
its daily expenditure with an alimentation in which we find 
only 88 grms. of albuminoids daily. The ration so constituted 
would give 2,800 utilizable Calories.^ 

On the other hand, the statistics collected by Payen show 
that in convents, amongst those who lead a sedentary life without 
the power or will to increase a dietary strictly sufficient, provided 
they do not undertake any fatiguing work, good and even flour- 
ishing health is maintained, except for a number of gastric 

^ It is necessary to add daily about 10 grms. of albuminoids borrowed 
from their tissues and proportional to their emaciation, which amounts 
altogether to 93 grms. of albuminoids per day. 

2 An estimate founded on the food of the workman of BerHn in the 
popular restaurants. He generally takes a half ration to which he adds 
a little bread, butter and cheese, phis coffee in the morning and soup in 
the evening. The half ration in the middle of the day is composed of 
about 560 grms. of white haricot beans, potatoes and beef ; or 560 grms. 
of peas, potatoes and pork ; or 560 grms. of fish and potatoes ; or 600 
grms. of fat soup with .strips of paste and boiled beef. 

^ In reality, the fat and butter have been arbitrarily brought by Hirsch- 
feld to the total amount of 72 grms. besides some 28 grms. of the midday 
repast and 4 grms. of the evening soup. I believe that this amount of 
72 grms. is too high, the German workman not as a rule receiving 100 
grms. of fat in his daily ration. Placing 80 grms. of fat and butter instead 
of 100 grms., the ration of this workman would only respond to 2,262 
Calories, a number which corresponds to the average Parisian food. But 
Hirschfeld has not taken into account in his calculation alcohol or beer, 
which ought to raise approximately the number of Calories disposed of 
by the average German workman of Berlin from 500 to 600. 

83 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

ailments of a nervous or inflammatory character, on condition 
that there is supplied to the organism daily 12 grms. to 12-5 grms. of 
alimentary nitrogen, a figure which would correspond to 75 or 
80 grms. of assimilable albuminoids. Yet, in this case, they are 
borrowed for the most part from vegetables. 

If we determine indeed the needs of the organism according 
to the dissimilation of nitrogenous principles, we see that man 
at complete rest, submitted to inanition, dissimilates at the 
expense of his tissues, be it in the form of urea or any other 
form, about 12 grms. to 12-5 grms. of nitrogen corresponding to 
the destruction of 77 to 80 grms. of albuminoids calculated dry. 

Thus the quantities of 77 to 88 grms. of albuminoids, on an 
average 82 to 83 grms., seem to be the minimum required in the 
alimentation of men in our climates of an average weight of 
63 to 70 kgs. for the maintenance of his health. This minimum 
quantity of albumin corresponds to 1-27 grms. of albumin per 
kilogramme of body weight per day, for the mean weight of 
65 kgs.^ 

But we know also that 2,000 to 2,200 Calories at the least, are 
necessary to man each day for his maintenance. The 82 grms. 
of albuminoids only furnish him with 330 Calories ; it follows that 
1,800 Calories need to be provided by the fats and the carbo- 
hydrates in this alimentation reduced to the minimum of albu- 
minoids. 



^ We cannot then agree with M. G. Bordetthat the number 075grnis. of 
albumin per kilogramme per twenty- four hours is sufficient to maintain the 
nitrogenized equilibrium (See Bull, therapeutique, December 10, 1900) ; 
especially if the individual does not remain completely at rest, in bed. The 
numbers furnished by M. Lapicque stating the demands in albumin, have 
nearly all this drawback, that they relate to a small number of individuals 
who were under observation for onlj' a very few days. They are, how- 
ever, so interesting, because they relate to individuals of different races, 
that I give the numbers here : 



Hirschfeld (excess of ternary body) 

Kamagava 

Breisacher 

Japanese 

Japanese student 

Abysinnian 

Malay 



Body 
weight 




Thus it is established that races accustomed to vegetable food poor 
in albumin (rice, sorghum, etc.) are content with 1 grm. to 1.2 grm. 
of albumin per kg. per day, whilst doing a moderate amount of work. It 
is very nearly the same number as we deduced earlier from our own 
observations. 



84 






MINIMUM OF ALIMENTS NECESSARY 

On the other hand, in calculating some of the practical needs 
which introduce into our daily food at least 50 grms. of fats, in 
recalling besides that these can be easily substituted by carbo- 
hydrates which readily transform themselves into fats in the 
economy, it is evident that the alimentary ration of the adult 
in relative repose, and only absorbing the indispensable pro- 
portion of albuminoids, ought to contain at least : 

grms. Calories. 

Albuminoids . . .82 328 

Fats 50 455 

Carbo-hydrates . .388 1,417 

Calories calculated . 2,200 

Such will be the regime of the adult, in relative repose, reduced 
to the minimum of nitrogenous and ternary elements. If he is 
doing only very restricted work, it is nearly sufficient for his 
maintenance in our climates. It is a poor diet, that of the 
prisoner, of the monk, of the unemployed workman, of the 
sedentary citizen. It suffices to maintain health, it even allows 
of a certain amount of activity, putting at their disposal 2,200 
Calories, when 1,900 would suffice in absolute repose. Resting in 
bed, 77 grms. of albumin, 50 grms. of fat and 255 to 300 grms. 
of starch or sugar, i.e. a regime of 1,800 to 2,000 Calories would 
be quite enough. It is noticeable that this alimentation, thus 
reduced to the minimum of proteid bodies, is also that which pro- 
duces the least nitrogenous waste. It will serve us as an example 
of how we should diet the gouty and the arthritic, and the 
patient whose liver, kidneys or heart are in such a state as to 
demand that these organs should be fatigued as little as possible. 
But this regime would suffice neither for the workman who is 
continually employed, nor for the inhabitants of cold climates, 
nor for the convalescent who has exhausted his reserves. Pro- 
viding him only with the indisputable minimum, it leaves the 
individual in so precarious a state that he is incapable of resisting 
the attacks of fatigue and the influence of disturbing and morbid 
agents. 

1 By Calories gross I mean the number of Calories calculated according 
to the hypothesis of the absorption and combustion of the aliments in- 
troduced in the form of CO2, HgCl and urea. 



85 



IX 

RATION OF WORK COMPARED WITH THAT OF MAINTENANCE — 
THE YIELD OF THE HUMAN MACHINE IN MECHANICAL WORK 

THE alimentary rations which we have calculated until 
now are those of the adult in comparative ease, in a regime 
of maintenance. We have fixed them, for absolute repose, at 
80 grms. of albuminoids, 50 grms. of fats and 250 to 300 carbo- 
hydrates ; for relative repose, that is to say in a state of activity 
without actual work, at 107 grms. of albuminoids, 65 grms. of 
fats and 400 grms. of sugar and starches. If man performs 
mechanical work, he must supplement his food in proportion 
to this particular loss in energy. 

One admits that a good workman who gives himself up to 
sustained exercise, without excess, provides in eight or nine 
hours a utilizable amount of labour of 80,000 to 100,000 kilo- 
grammetres. But the utilizable amount of labour depends on 
the mode of execution and the employment of real labour, and 
it is this which it is well to know if it is a question of calculating 
the expenditure in foods capable of being transformed into 
dynamic force. To make this calculation, it is necessary that 
the workman should be placed under conditions wliere it is easy 
to keep an account of the secondary labours of friction, dis- 
placements, movements of the body, respiratory acts, etc., 
which accompany every mechanical action, and which, added to 
the useful toil, represent the sum of the expenditure of energy 
transformed into force. 

The following are the observations which I have made on this 
subject. 

A good workman can raise in nine or ten hours from 140 to 
150 hectohtres of water, 10 metres in height, by means of a good 
suction and water pump. This work readily executed and 
continue during several consecutive days by the workmen in our 
warehouses and wine cellars, reduces the losses of mechanical 
energy by friction, useless movements, displacements of the 
body, etc., almost to a minimum. In working the handle of the 
pump which moves in the Uquid, the workman does not displace 
himself in space, but at each stroke of the piston (about 12,000 
in nine to ten hours), in the same time that he lifts up the column 

86 



CALCULATION OF EXPENDITURE 

of liquid, he raises and lowers successively the centre of gravity 
of the upper part of his body. He must overcome the friction 
of the piston of the pump and flywheel, frictions which are very 
slight in this case. Finally, his heart and respiratory muscles 
work on their part with an energy greater at least by a half 
than in a state of repose, in forcing the blood through the capil- 
laries, and in balancing the elasticity of the vessels and atmo- 
spheric pressure. The whole of all this work is calculated in 
kilogrammetres, in the following table : 

Filling of a tub of 150 hectolitres in carrying water to 
a height of 10 metres ..... 

Raising of half of the body (32 kgs.) for each piston 
stroke ........ 

Work to overcome the resistance of the pump and fly 
wheel, about ....... 

Excess of the work of the heart and respiration in 
comparison with a workman at rest 

Small expenditures corresponding to the supplemen- 
tary work of 24 hours after the work 



150,000 kilogrmts. 
52,700 
9,500 
1 38,250 



Total of actual expended work 



10,000 
260,450 kilogrmts. 

Frankland has found, on his part, 270,000 kilogrammetres 
for the total day's labour of a good workman labouring just to 
the border of fatigue, and I have calculated that a good chmber 
performs a total labour of 260,000 to 280,000 kilogrammetres in 
ascending in eight to ten hours from 2,200 to 2,500 metres. 
Out of these 270,000 kilogrammetres 160,000 to 170,000 cor- 
respond to the lifting up of the body while ascending. 

One may then admit that a good workman furnishes in a day 
of eight to ten hours from 260,000 to 280,000 kilogrammetres, 
out of which 25 to 65 per cent, are utilizable, according to the 
nature of the work done and the machine employed.^ 

In order to produce these 260,000 kilogrammetres in their 
day's work, workmen in the wine warehouses of the South 
of France consume in the autumn as additional daily foods : 



Bread and its analogues 

Fat 


400 grms 
24 „ 


Meat ...... 


. 200 „ 


Fresh vegetables. 
Wine at 9° 


. 200 „ 
1 litre 



1 Allowing here for the deduction for the additional energy expended 
by the labour of the workman and for the nature of this work, we only 
reckon the excess of the work of the heart and the thoracic muscles ; still, 
the work of the heart disappears almost entirely as work, transformed as 
it is, into friction and internal heat. 

2 My workman at the pump rendered 58 per cent, of useful work out of 
100 of the total work. My climber, weighing 70 kg., ascending in eight 
hours from 2,200 metres in altitude, produced 154,000 kilogrammetres 
of work for a total expenditure of 270,000 kilogrammetres, being 56 per 
cent, of useful work. 

87 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

These foods contain the fundamental nutritive principles, 
albumins, fats, sugars and starches, in the following propor- 
tions : 







Albu- 
minoids 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Bread and its analogues. 

Meat 

Fats 

Fresh vogetables . 
Wine at 9° 1 .... 


400 grms. 
200 „ 
24 „ 
200 „ 
1 litre 


33 grms. 
37 „ 

8-5 „ 


4-2 griiiB. 
4 „ 
21 
61 „ 

35-5 grms. 


200 grms. 
1 .. 

8-2 „ 
130 „ 


Total .... 


— 


78-5 grms. 


339-2 grms. 



Such is, for a workman forced to a work mechanically regulated 
and of which one can pretty easily calculate the total, the sup- 
plementary ration which corresponds to this work. If we add 
to this expenditure the strict alimentary ration of the workman 
at ease, we shall have : 



Albimiinoids 

Fats . . . 
Carbo-hydrates 



Strict ration 
of rest. 



78 grms. 
50 „ 
370 „ 



Supplementary 
ration of work. 



78-5 grms. 
35-5 „ 
339 „ 



Total ration 
of work. 



156-5 grms. 
85-3 „ 
709 „ 



We shall calculate directly how many Calories this ration 
corresponds to, and what is its coefficient of result in mechanical 
energy. But first it will be very interesting to compare the 
total expenditure of this workman confined to a definite, con- 
tinuous and regular work, with that which results from work, 
which might be called unregulated, of the agricultural labourer 
of the same country who happens probably to furnish daily the 
same total effort, if one judges him by his same fatigue, but with 
whom the daily occupations are very varied and often broken 
up, in the same day, by repose and by laborious work of every 
kind. 

In order to make this interesting calculation I have chosen 
two average peasant families, living and working very regularly, 
not drinking any alcoholic Uquors other than wine, and that 
taken very moderately. One of these famiUes was composed 



1 We shall establish in Part II that wine is really an ahment, suited in 
a large measure to furnish by combustion, in the economy, a little more 
than nine-tenths of its potential energy, and in our calculation, we 
transform here the alcohol of this wine into corresponding glucose. 



RATION OF WORKMAN AT WORK 

of six persons, the other of eight (of whom two were women and 
one a child of seven — these three persons counted as two adults). 
These thirteen people consumed exactly, in 5,003 days, the food 
wliich I indicate in the first column of the following table 
and wliich I also calculate in ahmentary principles per head 
and per day : 

Average Alimentation of the Agbicultural Labourer of the 
South of France. 





Total 

in 
5,003 
days. 


Per head 

and 
per day. 


Aliments containing 


per day : 


Kind of alimentation 


Albumin. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Bread 1 


kgs. 

4277 


grms. 
855 


grms. 
69-7 


grms. 
6-8 


grms. 
420 


Meat 


771 


154 


23 


5-9 


12 


Fat and oil 


304 


61 


— 


55 


— 


Potatoes 


2750 


526 


6-8 


1-0 


105-5 


Dry vegetables 2 ... 
Green vegetables 
Wine (67 hectolitres at 9°)3 . 
Supplementary sugar and 
coffee 


890 
1055 
6700 


178 
212 

1330 cc. 
10 


40 
9-5 


34 

7-0 

79 1 


95 

25 

174 

10 


Totals .... 


— 


149-0 


829-7 



This ration thus estabUshed differs very httle from that which 
we have already calculated (p. 87) for the workman subjected 
to the regular work of the pump in our wine vaults. We 
have : 



i 
Alimentary diet per day. ! Workmen in wine vaults. 


Agricultural labourers. 


Assimilable albimainoids . 

Fats 

Carbo-hydrates 


156-5 grms. 
85 
709 


149 grms. 

79 1 „ 
829-7 „ 



In order to obtain the maximum of work from the French 
workmen employed in the construction of the Rouen railway, 
Gasparin {Traite d' agriculture, t. V) relates that they were 
obliged to put them on the regime of the English workmen 



1 Of which 20 kgs. are Italian pastry. 

2 Principally beans with about one -fourth dry peas. 

3 The calculation of wine for one day gives 1-33 litres, which, at 9° cor- 
respond to 96 grms. of alcohol, corresponding to 192 grms. of sugar. Nine- 
tenths of this alcohol burning in the economy, the corresponding sugar is 
then 174 grms. per day. 

89 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

charged with the same work ; they received 660 grms. a day of 
raw meat, 550 grms. of bread, 1,000 grms. of potatoes, 50 grms. 
of fat and 2 litres of beer. This diet corresponds to the 
following composition, calculated in fundamental assimilable 
principles : 





Per day. 


Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo-hydrates. 


Raw meat 
Bread . . . 
Potatoes .' . 
Fat and butter . 
Beer (2 litres)^ . 


grms. 
660 
750 

1000 
50 


grms. 
98 
61-6 
14 

1 


grms. 
28 
66 
15 
48 


grm.s. 

3 
350 
201 

165 


Total . . . 


174-6 grms. 


84- 1 grms. 


716 grms. 



Here is, still according to the data of the same economist, 
the nourishment of the labourers of the Departement du Nord 
and the agricultural workmen of the canton of Vaud. I reduce 
them both to the ration of twenty-four hours ; but the numbers 
furnished by M. .de Gasparin, totaUzing the ahmentation of a 
certain number of important farms, and for the whole year, 
correspond to very liigh totals and in consequence to very safe 
averages. 



Labourers of the Department du Nord. 



Kind of alimentation. 


Daily. 


Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Rye flour .... 


880 grms. 


97-0 grms. 


18-0 grms. 


572 grms. 


Flour 


82 „ 


8-7 „ 


0-8 „ 


59-8 „ 


Barley 


130 „ 


148 „ 


20 „ 


91 9 „ 


Potatoes .... 


960 „ 


124 „ 


15 „ 


180 „ 


Peas and dry vegetables 


55 „ 


10 


0-7 „ 


28 „ 


Meat (chiefly beef) 


82 „ 


147 „ 


43 „ 


3 „ 


Bacon 


30 „ 


20 „ 


23 


— 


Butter 


55 „ 


— 


53 


— 


Milk 


450 cc. 


17 


162 „ 


20 „ 


Beer 


1 litre 


0-5 „ 




73 „ 


Salt 


33 grms. 


— 


— 


— 


Total .... 


— 


1771 grms. 


122 5 grms. 


1025 grms. 



• Calculation for beer : 2 litres of beer at 4° (average) represents 64 
grms. of alcohol corresponding to 128 grms. of glucose, of which nine-tenths, 
or 115 grms., are counted as corresponding to the alcohol burnt up. It is 
necessary to add to 2 litres of beer, 50 grms. of sugar or dextrins and 1 grm. 
of albimiin. 



90 



RATION OF WORKMAN AT WORK 



Alimentation of the Agricultukal Labourers of the Canton of 
Vaxtd (according to Gasparin). 





Per day. 


Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo-hydrates. 


Bread . 


784 grms. 


63 grms. 


6-6 grms. 


3900 grms. 


Potatoes . 


1000 „ 


13 „ 


15 „ 


200 


Green vegetables 


110 „ 


1 „ 


05 „ 


4-9 „ 


Lentils and drj 


T 








vegetables . 


35 „ 


7 „ 


0-8 „ 


18 


Dry fruits 




35 „ 


3 „ 


— 


8 


Meat . 




157 „ 


27 „ 


7-2 „ 


0-7 „ 


Cheese . 




79 „ 


23 „ 


24 


— 


Butter . 




29 „ 





26 


— 


Milk . . 




630 cc. 


23 „ 


22 „ 


28 


Wine . 




330 „ 





— ^ 




Cider . . 




275 „ 





- I 


64 


Coffee . . 






— 


- i 






160 grms. 


91-6 grms. 


713-6 grms. 



Here is again the detail of some rations which have been put to proof , 
in times of war or campaign, in the armies of different nations : 
Ration of the French Army during War. 



Kind of diet. 



Bread (or biscuit 735 grms.) 

Raw meat 

Vegetables in grain 

Sugar 

Coffee 

Wine at 9 5° (about) . 

Brandy . . . . 

Salt 

Total 



Per day. 



Albuminoids. 



Fats. 



lOOOgrms. 
300 „ 

60 „ , 

21 „ 

16 „ 
250 cc. 

60 cc. I 

16grms.i 



70-6 grms.! 4-60 grms, 



50-2 
158 



05 



il302 
114 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



= } 



626 grms. 

1-5 „ 

32 „ 

20 „ 

52 „ 



1371 grms. 18-76 grms. 631-5 grms. 



Daily Ration of the French Sailor during a Campaign. 



Kind of diet. 



Bread or its equivalent of biscuit . 

Fresh meat or its equivalent of salted 
meat 

Beans, peas, haricots (or their equiva- 
lent of rice, meat or cheese) 

Butter and olive oil 

Sorrel or sour-krout 

Sugar 

Coffee (infusion of 20 grms.) 

Vinegar, pepper, mustard .... 

Wine (or its equivalent) 

Brandy 

Salt 



Per 
day. 



grms. 
750 
300 

120 

21 
15 
25 



460 
60 
22 



Albu- 
minoids. 



grms. 
61-50 
62 

27-6 

0-1 
03 



Total j 1773 

_ _ 



1555 



Fats. 



grms. 

6 

153 

1-8 

17 5 
1 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



grms. 

3750 

1-4 

69 



1 
25 



120 



407 I 591-4 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Lasge Wab Ration of a Prussian Soldier (in time of Wab and in 
A Campaign). Regulation July 4, 1867. 



Kind of ration. 


Per 
day. 


Albu- 
minoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Bread 

Meat 

Rice, 160 grms. (or barley 120 grms., or 

dry vegetables 320 grms. or potatoes 

2000 grms.) 
Roasted coffee 


grms. 
750 
500 
160 

24 


t 
grms. grms. 

61-50 i 6 

10450 26-2 

173 26 


grms. 
375 
23 
247.0 


Total 


183 3 , 33 7 624 3 



Ration of the English 


Army in Crimea. 




£ind of ration. 


Daily. 


Albuminoids. Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Bread 


680 


64-4 


5-8 


340 


Meat, fresli or salted 


483 


96-6 


245 


2 


Rice 


56 


32 


0-6 


44-8 


Sugar 


56 


— 


— 


56 


Coffee 


28 


— 


— 


— 


Tea 


7-8 


— 


— 


— 


Rmn ...... 


14 





— 


14 


Lemon juice .... 


28 











Salt 


14 


— 


— 


— 


Pepper 


7 


— 


— 


— 


Total 


154-2 1 309 


456-8 



American Army in Time of War (Hammond). 



Kind of ration. 


1 Daily. 


Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Bread or flour 


625 


53-0 


55 


313 


Meat, fresh or salted . 


566 


114-8 


28-8] 


26 


Potatoes 


443 


h 5-8 


0-7i 


88 


Rice 


47 


31 


0-45 


37-6 


Beans 


85 


20-0 


1-27 


51-8 


Coffee 


47 











Tea 


7 











Sugar 


60 


— 





60 


Vinegar 


42 








— 


Salt 


21 











Pepper 


9 


— 


— 


— 




196-7 


36-7 


553 



We collect all these data in the following table by adding 
together those furnished by different authors for the ahmentation 
of workmen submitted to fatiguing work from eight to twelve 
hours a day. 

92 



RATION OF WORKMAN AT WORK 

Rations fob Fatiguing Wobk. 





Albu- 
min- 
oids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Calories 
theoreti- 
cally cal- 
culated. 


Authors. 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Cals. 




French workman pumping 


156-5 


85 


709 


4218 


A. Gautier 


(South of France) 












Agricultural labourer in the 


149 


79 1 


829-7 


4560 


J, 


South of France 












Railway labourer (Rouen) 


174-6 


84-1 


716 


4304 


De Gasparin 


Labourer of the Dept. du Nord 


1771 


1225 


1022-5 


5874 


,, 


Agricultural labourers (Canton 


160 


91 7 


713-7 


4274 


,, 


of Vaud) 












German wood cutter . 


135 


108 


876 


4664 


J. Liebig 


German farm labourer of 


143 


108 


788 


4696 


Ranke 


Laufzorn (average) 












English labourer .... 


184 


71 


570 


3655 


Smith and Play- 
fair 


Labouring families (U.S.A.) . 


97 


130 


467-0 


3415 


Atwater 


English blacksmitli 


176 


71 


666 


4007 


Playfair 


French soldier in time of war . 


137 


18-8 


632 


3247 


(Regulations) 


French sailor during campaign 


155-5 


40-7 


591 


3338 


» 


Prussian soldier, large war ration 


183 


337 


624 


3534 


,, 


American army in time of war 


196-7 


36-7 


553 


3327 


,, 


English soldier in time of war . 


154 


30-9 


457 


— 


J, 


Military workers (Chatou) 


160 


66 


580 


3554 


Smith and Play- 
fair 


Gangs of American boatmen . 


155 


177 


440 


3955 


Atwater 


Artisans (American) 


103 


150 


402 


3365 


,, 


Workers in the big towns of 


101 


116 


344 


2810 


J, 


the LTnion 












Averages 


152 


85 


630 


3884 




Weight per 100 of albumin . 


100 


4411 


425 


— 





The figures quoted in the preceding table are almost all aver- 
ages relative to the food of the most diverse workmen as to 
country, climate and habits, of such a kind that the general 
average which results from the whole of these data translates 
with great probable nearness the alimentary necessities of the 
workman submitted to fatiguing work, without being excessive, 
and in conditions where the subjects under observation have not 
been able to make an abuse of excess of provisions or to waste them. 

Calculated in utilizable calories, this average of working alimen- 
tation corresponds, for twenty-four hours,to the following number : 



For albuminoids 

For fats 

For carbo-hydrates 

Total 



152x3-68= 559 Cals. 

85x8-65= 735 „ 
630x3-88 = 2444 „ 



= 3,738 Cals. 



Workmen occupied in very rough work (carpenters, wood- 
cutters, blacksmiths, quarrymen, miners, navvies, etc.) especially 

93 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

those who live in a very cold climate, need a still more sub- 
stantial nourishment. I give here some examples borrowed 
especially from Smolensky : 



Necessary Rations 


FOB Fatiguing Work. 






Weight 
of nour- 
ishiuent 


Containing per 


day. 


Energy 
calcu- 
lated in 
Calories. 




Professions. 


Albu- 
minoids. 


Fata. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Authors. 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Cals. 




Sawers of wood at Astrakan . 


1587 


2106 


926 


867 


5105 


Soudekow 


Astrakan carpenters 


1944 


144 1 


72-8 


693 


3998 


,, 


Quarrymen, navvies, stone cut- 


2712 


220 


95 


931 


5429 


Ivanov 


ters of the Port of Cronstadt 














Tomsk miners 


2163 


2655 


603 


985 


5591 


Route vsky 


Novgorod agricultural la- 


2233 


151 5 


565 


798 


4296 


Griaznov 


bourers 














Swedish joiners and carpenters 


4596 


1886 


1101 


7144 


4590 


Siven 


(laborious work) 














German wood cutter 


— 


135 


208 


876 


5794 


J. Liebig 


Brickniakers of Munich (Italians^ 


1178 


167 


117 


675 


4409 


Ranke 


Austrian agricultural labourers 


1493 


181 9 


93 3 


967 7 


5420 


Ohlmiiller 


(full work) 














Boston carmen and carriers 


— 


254 


363 


826 


7535 


Atwater 


(work very laborious) 














Bicyclists racing at New York . 


— 


1865 


1854 


5846 


4730 


„ 


American footballers . 




226 


354 


634 


6590 


» 


Averages 


1913 


1322 


8108 


5290 





The average ration for fatiguing work corresponds then to a 
disposability of about 3,8(X) Calories ; for exceptionally severe 
work to 5,000 utilizable Calories. 

The question of race seems to have far less influence on aH- 
mentary necessities than one might have thought, especially if 
these races, differing greatly but living in the same surroundings 
and climate, have the same facihties for obtaining their food. 
Here are a few statistics taken from Atwater's researches : 



5 French Can£idian families living in Chicago . 
4 Italian families living in Chicago .... 
8 Bohemian families li\ing in Chicago . 
10 Russian Jews living in Chicago .... 
A family of Chinese farm labourers, California 

20 Negro families, Alabama 

19 Negro families, Virginia . . . . • . . 109 



Albu- 
min- 
oids. 

grms. 
118 
103 
115 
137 
144 
62 



Carbo- "^^^ 
Fats. L„2,„?l retical 
hydrates j,^,^^j^^ 



grms. 
158 

111! 

101 j 
103 
95 
132 I 
159 1 



grms. 

345 

391 

360 

418 

640 

436 

444 



112 122 433 



Cals. 
3200 
2965 
2800 
3135 
3980 
3165 
3625 

3267 



94 



DIVISION OF ENERGY INTO HEAT AND WORK 

Thus, these workmen of very different races doing a relatively 
moderate amount of work, disposed of an aUmentation which 
furnished them with an almost unvarjdng sum of Calories ; 
whereas an European workman, under the same conditions, 
furnishes about 3,230 or 3,300 Calories daily. 

Following the facts in the preceding table and those on p. 84 
we admit that an adult should, according to his work, dispose 
of an alimentation wliich furnishes him with the following 
quantities of energy, expressed in Calories : 



Complete repose .... 
Relative repose (exercise very 
moderate) 

Moderate work 

Fatiguing work 

Very fatiguing work 



Beal Calories. 1 



Atwater. 



Rttbner. 

1880-1900 
2200-2400 



2445-2868 2450-3050 

3300-3800 3400-3800 

4150-5300 



Calories 

corresponding 

to a kilogrm. 

of body weight. 



28-30 
35-38 

38-45 
45-55 

58-75 



If from the ration of the workman, such as we have described 
(p. 94), we deduct that of the same workman at rest (p. 85), 
we shall have the surplus ration necessitated by the production 
of mechanical labour : 





Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Workman at work 

Workman at rest 


grms. 
152 

78 

74 


grms. 
85 
50 


grms. 
630 

388 


Excess of alimentary principles necessary for 
work 


35 


242 



We have seen earlier how, and under what different forms, 
this excess of assimilable principles could be provided by the 
aliments. 

Such as it is, this average excess of assimilable elements which 
work causes to be additionally consumed, corresponds to a 
number of Calories easy to determine : 



For 74 grms. of albuminoids 

For 39 grms. of fat 

For 279 grms. of carbo-hydrates 

Total 



296 
311 
968 



Cals. 



1,575 Cals. 



* Calories deducted from the theoretic coefficients and multiplied by 
the relation 91/100 found between the theoretical and the real yield of 
energy in the case of mixed rations. 

95 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Tlie difference found by Atwater between the energy measured 
by the calorimeter in the form of heat set free by man in repose, 
and that corresponding to the losses of the same individual 
employed in fatiguing but not excessive work, is 1,400 Calories, 

These 1,400 Calories correspond theoretically to 597,125 kilo- 
grammetres. 

We have said tliat a very good workman produces in mechan- 
ical work, in a day of ten hours, 170,000 kilogrammetres of useful 
work ; from which it follows that 28-0 per cent, of the energy of 
the supplementary ration of work is utilized by good workmen 
to directly produce motive force. 

In a state of relative repose, of the 2,350 Calories which he 
disposes of, thanks to his ration of maintenance, the average man 
loses the following, calculated according to the number above 
and the observations of Atwater and Benedict : ^ 

49-35 Cals. or 2-1 per cent, of total energy transformed into exterior 
works of maintenance, frictions, involuntary movements, work of the 
respiratory muscles. 

1,694-45 Cals. or 72-1 per cent, corresponding to the caloric radiation of 
the body, to the loss of heat by conduction as well as by the warming of 
the air leaving the lungs. 

573-30 Cals. or 24-4 per cent, for the latent heat of the vaporization of 
water through the lungs and skin. 

32-2 Cals. or 1-4 per cent, for heat carried away by the fseces and urine. 

In a state of work, the 2,350 + 1,^0=3,'! 50 utilizable Calories, on 
an average are divided into the following proportions, still 
keeping for our bases the observations of Atwater and Benedict 
{lac. cit.) : 

75 Cals. being 2 per cent, for heat corresponding to slight unconscious 
movements, necessary displacements of the body and of its centre of gravity, 
frictions, respiratory movements. 

2,262 Cals. being 60-3 per cent, for heat radiated by the skin, and heating 
of the gases of the air leaving the lungs. 

1,155 Cals. being 30-8 per cent, for heat corresponding to evaporation 
of water from the lungs or lost by perspiration. 

^ Atwater and Benedict have given (Experiments on the Metabolism, 
p. 141, Washington, 1902) the following experimental mean numbers : 

State of State of 
Repose. Work. 
Per cent. Per cent. 
Heat radiated by the body, heat lost by conduction and by 

heating of the surrounding air .... 74 623 

Latent heat of vaporization of perspired or expired water . 244 308 
Heating of the urine and fseces . . . . I '4 05 

Heat equivalent to muscular work recorded by the ergo- 

meter ........ 00 6-4 

It is to be noticed that in this calculation all external work counts for 
nothing in the state of rest, which is only true of absolute rest. Really 
we ought to reckon as being absent in rest, from the radiated heat, the 
heat equivalent to the movements and work of the respiratory muscles, 
and all the work necessitated by the functioning of the human organism 
which is only in a state of relative rest. 

96 






DIVISION OF ENERGY INTO HEAT AND WORK 

18 Cals. being 0-5 per cent, for heat lost by the fa3ces and urine. 
240 Cals. being 6-4 per cent, for heat corresponding to work collected 
by the ergomoter. 

These figures, especially the first and last, are somewhat un- 
certain. According to each individual, the percentage in energy 
corresponding to non-utilizable labours, frictions, respiration, 
or to what may be transformed into useful work, varies somewhat 
largely. It changes also with the nature of the work. These 
two numbers may then be greatly modified. However, the average 
found by Atwater and Benedict for the quantity of energy which 
can be transformed into registrable useful work, is a percentage 
of 6-4. The 240 Calories that the subjects observed by these 
two American professors transformed into useful work, cor- 
responded to 102,000 kilogrammetres only. But, I have proved, 
as I have just said, that a good workman pumping can produce 
150,000 kilogrammetres of useful work in eight hours, and Frank- 
land has obtained as much as 180,000 kilogrammetres. These 
figures are in the same proportion ; but they clearly show that 
the amount of useful work obtained by scientists, shut up in 
Atwater's and Benedict's calorimetric room, is far below the 
average furnished by a man working in the open air. In reality 
a good workman can transform into useful ivork nearly 10 per 
cent, of the total energy of his foods. 

By comparing the averages obtained by the same subjects 
in repose and at work, we can draw the following conclusions 
from Atwater's numbers. 

During work man radiates by the skin a much smaller fraction 
of heat than in a state of repose (60-3 per cent, at work instead 
of 72 per cent, at rest), but the amount of absolute heat radiated 
during work is increased in about the same proportion as that 
which is lost by this process in a state of repose ; of 2,262 — 
1,694 = 568 Calories in the above case. 

Whereas in a state of repose, the heat lost by cutaneous evapora- 
tion and respiration was 573 Calories in Atwater's example 
recorded earher, in the working state, it is raised to 1,155 Calories, 
being 582 Calories more. This cutaneous evaporation, which thus 
causes 582 Calories to disappear, is employed to keep the 
temperature of the body which tends to rise during work 
owing to excessive combustion, constant. 

Finally, 240 + 15 Calories are transformed into utilizable work. 
The employment of the additional 1,405 Calories necessitated 
by the work in the example above is as follows : 

Excess of radiation from the body . . . 568 Cals. 

Excess of cutaneous and pulmonary evaporation . 582 „ 
Real work in Calories ..... 255 „ 

1,406 Cals. 

97 -H 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

In these experiments, out of the overplus of 1,405 aUraentary 
Calories (or corresponding energy) necessitated by work, 255 Calo- 
ries only, or a little more than 18 per cent., are transformed into 
work, but, as we have already said, this proportion may rise 
to 25 or even 30 per cent, in the case of very good workmen. 

Do organisms exist more capable than others of transforming 
into work a larger proportion of alimentary energy ? Are these 
aliments or stimulants capable of increasing the yield in work 
and of making a greater part of the energy, lost by evaporation 
or by radiation from the body, transform itseK into work ? It 
seems hkely that it is so. Certain races of animals and men, 
when working, utilize to greater advantage than others the same 
alimentary ration. Certain stimulants can augment, as we 
shall see, the yield in work. It seems that alimentary principles 
which produce by their combustion less water and consequently 
less cutaneous evaporation and radiation, assure a higher yield 
in work. The albuminoid matters transforming themselves 
in the system into urea, etc., give, for a Hke number of Calories 
producedjless water than thefattyand hydro-carbonated principles, 
it is a fact that they are more favourable to work, either directly 
or by stimulating the nerve centres. They seem also more 
capable of assisting the muscle to rapidly renew itself when it 
is wearing itself out : W. Edwards has proved by the dyna- 
mometer, that after a very rich meal of meat, his strength was 
increased much more than after a meal calorimetrically equiva- 
lent, but where vegetable substances predominated. In fact, 
people who eat much meat produce much work and are fit for 
all sportive exercises, and it has been practically observed that 
workmen, agricultural labourers or artisans, produce more work if, 
in their habitual ration, they replace a part of the hydro-carbonated 
or fatty foods by nitrogenous foods of equivalent energetic value, 
but without this substitution exceeding nevertheless a certain limit. 

Besides it remains proved to-day that muscular work sensibly 
increases the production of urea, and, in general, the dissimilation 
of extractive nitrogenous matters, although, in a measure, much 
inferior to those indicated by the calculation if the work per- 
formed had resulted entirely from the destruction or combustion 
of proteid bodies. One often quotes the experiments of Petten- 
koffer and Voit apparently showing that, by a mixed diet, the 
eUmination of urine and destruction of albumin are not sensibly 
increased by work, when it considerably increases the destruction 
of fats : 



In 24 hours. 


At Best. 


At Work. 


Urea 

Albumin disappeared. 
Fat disappeared . . . 


37-2 grms.-36-3 grms. 
137 grms. 
315 „ 


36-3 grms. 
137 ., 
323 „ 



98 



UTILIZATION OF ENERGY 

But one will notice that, in these experiments, the individual 
under observation was superabundantly fed, and that already 
he was destroying, in a state of repose, a quantity of nitrogenous 
and fat elements more than sufficient to provide for his work ; 
the superabundant quantity of ternary materials in reserve pro- 
tected him therefore against an excess of dissimilation of albumin. 

Besides, nothing could prevail against this observation that every- 
where the workman who works, eats, if he can, more meat than 
when he is unemployed and that, consequently, ceasing to assimi- 
late this albumin, he must furnish an excess of urea, if not pro- 
portional to the excess of nitrogenous foods, at least parallel to it. 

On the other hand, in hot or cold chmates, the workman 
invariably augments his ration, particularly and instinctively 
by starchy substances and above all by fats wliich are the prin- 
ciples whose combustion is most qualified to furnish energj'^ 
capable of being transformed into mechanical force : in spite of 
this, meat still remains the chief stimulant and regenerator of 
muscle. I say meat because experience has shown that it is 
not immaterial to provide for those who do arduous work, beef, 
fish, or plenty of bread and vegetables, containing Hke quantities 
of albuminoid principles. These principles, when they are of 
vegetable origin, are only assimilable in the proportion of 83 per 
cent., when 96 per cent, reach the blood if they come from meat. 
Further, albumin of plants can only be utilized after a more 
difficult and slower task of assimilation than when it is a question 
of animal albuminoids. Above all, it does not bring with it the 
nerve excitant, these alkaloids of muscular flesh, which neither 
gluten nor legumin would be able to provide us with. 

This is not the time to demonstrate what are the correct 
stimulants to hasten muscular action and to improve its produce. 
It is a very interesting question which we propose to study in 
detail in its place and which ought to be decided in the affirmative. 
(See " Aromatic Condiments and Spirituous Beverages.") 

It is necessary for man, when working, to dispose of the excess 
of combustible heat that work creates whilst only losing a small 
portion of it. His drink furnishes him with water wliich, by 
means of pulmonary and cutaneous evaporation, refreshes 
the blood and the tissues, provided however that this water is 
eUminated by the lungs and skin instead of by the kidneys.^ 

1 Weyrich, quoted by Ch. Richet (Z)ie<. o/P%sioZogf., article on "Heat" 
has found : 



L 



Moderate movements in the room 

Violent 

Moderate „ „ sun. 

Violent .. 



Quantity of sweat 
per hour in grms. 



7-6 grms. 

7-6 „ 
21-8 „ 
28-3 „ 



Gals, corresponding to 

the evaporation of this 

sweat. 



4-065 Cals. 

4065 „ 
11-728 „ 
16-225 „ 



99 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Atwater in his experiments has found the same results. Ac- 
cording to him, man doing an average amount of work — eight 
hours a day — absorbs about half as much food as he would 
require in a state of repose. He prevents his organs from 
becoming overheated, not only by eliminating through the skin 
the excess of water that he consumes, but also a part of that 
which, in a state of repose, would pass through the kidneys. 
With regard to this, I give here some very instructive average 
numbers taken from Atwater's experiments : 



A. In repose. 
1. Water received by foods . 
„ „ drinks 



Total water 



2. Water eliminated by the faeces . 
,, ,, ,, urine 

„ ,, ,, expiration 

and perspiration 

Total water 

B. In work. 
1. Water received by the foods 
„ ,, „ drinks 

Total water .... 



2. Water eliminated by the faeces . 
,, „ „ urine . 

,, „ „ respiration 

and perspiration 



Total 



Water per 24 hours.i^ 



Patient E. O. 



1037 grms, 
1407 .. 



2444 grms. 

59 grms, 
1810 „ 
977 „ 



2846 grms, 



1168 grms. 
1603 „ 

2771 grms. 

96 grms. 
1011 „ 
2275 „ 



3382 grms. 



Patient J. F. 8. 



1055 grms 
833 „ 

1888 grms 

52 grms. 
1219 „ 

830 „ 



2101 grms, 

975 grms, 
1250 „ 



2225 grms. 

52 grms. 
905 „ 
1670 „ 



2627 grms. 



Averages. 



2166 grms. 



1515 grms. 
903 „ 



2473 grms. 



2498 grms. 
1972 grms. 



3005 grms. 



We see that in the working state, these two subjects have 
eliminated 522 grms. more water than in the state of repose, and 
that this water, far from being found in greater quantity in the 
urine emitted during the working period, is less (an average of 357 
grms. less water in the urine) and that the quantity expired and 
perspired augments *to 1,069 grms. 

1 Average weight of patients : 68- 5 kgs. 



100 



NUTRITION — THE CELLULAR MECHANISM OF ASSIMILATION AND 
OF THE PRODUCTION OF VITAL ENERGY 

ALIMENTATION is but the first stage in the process of nutri- 
tion. It furnishes the plastic material wliich, successively 
modified by the intestinal ferments and finally by the assimilative 
digestion of the tissues, is continually repairing the loss which 
the vital functions necessarily create. The general life of the 
individual is maintained by the regular co-ordination of functional 
processes. These elementary processes, the succession and order 
of which alone appear to be in correlation with the structure 
of nervous tissue, and, in each cell, with that of its presiding 
nucleus, are themselves purely physico-chemical or mechanical 
reactions, wliich in tlieir turn derive from the molecular structure, 
from the chemical constitution and from the essential principles 
of which each of the cells of the organism is built up. 

Before passing to the study of foods and diet, in order to ter- 
minate Part I given up to the statement of Principles, I should 
like to show how nutrition, the working of the functions of the 
general life, is regulated by the inmost phenomena of assimi- 
lation and disintegration, which take place in the cell or in the 
tissues. Also how the normal development of the functions as 
well as the abnormal habits, peculiar constitutions, and later 
distinctly morbid states, are allied with primitive molecular 
chemical phenomena, all those, at least, which spring from 
irregular feeding or vicious nutrition of the organs. 

Mechanism of Nutrition 

We know that the constituent cells of each of our tissues are 
essentially formed of phosphorated proteid matters : cytoproteids 
in the protoplasms, nucleoproteids in the cellular nuclei. These 
proteids are distinctive in each kind of cell. They are generally 
associated there with other simpler non-phosphorated albuminous 
substances, and with still simpler forms (hexoses, lecithins, 
amine-acids, fats, glycogen, etc.) which appear to be derived 
from the simplified divisions of the cytoproteids and nucleoproteids 
and perhaps, in the case of some at least, to have been brought 
directly by the blood and stored in the cell. 

lOi 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

During the process, three complementary phenomena take 
place in succession : 1. The disintegration of the most complex 
and most unstable proteids which, by virtue of this same insta- 
bility, appears to start other chemical actions. 2. Inversely, 
the continual reproduction of these essential molecular organs 
of the cell which is due to the phenomenon of assimilation. 
3. Finally, the utiHzation of the albuminoids or ternary reserves 
which, in hydrating, decomposing, and becoming oxidized, etc., 
furnish the greater part of the energy which the cell uses up in 
functioning. All these processes in the life of the tissue are 
dependent on specific agents, that is to say, the ferments, of 
which we will now speak. 

Ferments. — These agents of the primary vital functions seem 
to be intended, some to pour into specific molecular moulds the 
surrounding matter which has been previously split up ; others 
to divide the nutritive material brought by the circulation into 
simpler assimilable parts by forming unstable combinations with 
them and which are eventually decomposed by water. Others, 
again, give to the surrounding matter the nascent oxygen or 
hydrogen with wliich they are momentarily charged under the 
form of dissociable peroxides or hydrurets, etc. These agents 
of molecular transformation, the promoters of assimilation, 
hydrations, oxidations, reductions and decompositions, etc., play 
an immense part in regulating, furthering and retarding the pro- 
cess of digestion. We shall try here to characterize their nature 
and the part they play. 

When the primary albuminoid substances of plants and 
animals undergo gastric digestion, they become peptonized by 
the action of stomachic ferments : their complex molecules 
divide into simpler albuminoids by means of hydrolysis or 
molecular intussusception of water. When it is a question of 
the phosphorated proteids, of the plasmas and cellular nuclei, 
digestion separates, on the one hand, the nucleins which carry off 
all the phosphorus, and on the other the propeptons and pep tons, 
bodies stQl of a proteid nature, but of less molecular weight and 
simpler formation than those of the nucleo-proteids or cyto- 
proteids from which they are derived. 

These new albuminoid bodies as well as the other grades of 
this first phosphorated division, the nucleins, penetrate into the 
duodenum and there undergo the action of fresh intestinal fer- 
ments such as trypsin, erepsin, etc. The result of this action is 
to simplify more and more, and always by successive liydrolysis, 
the albuminoid compounds which they succeed in transforming 
thus into a series of amino acids (alanin, leucin, glycocol, serin, 
tyrosin, etc.). We know to-day that the other class of the 
primary division of the cyto-and nucleo-proteids, the nucleins, 
are divided into phosphorated compounds {thymic acids) and 

102 



FERMENTS 

albumoses, compounds which pass into the circulatory system 
after having undergone the action of the ferments contained in 
the glands of the intestinal walls and in the lymphatic globules. 
In this way the proteid molecules which, in the cell, first con- 
stitute the complex phosphorated albuminoids of the primary 
protoplasm and of the nucleus, are successively divided and 
subdivided by means of these digestive ferments which hydrolyze 
and divide, into less and less complicated molecules which the 
blood carries pell-mell to the various organs. Through the dis- 
solving action of the digestive or dissimilating ferments and by 
virtue of the very functioning of the cell, the proteids of the 
nucleus and those of the plasma of the cell which has functioned, 
have lost a part of their substance, phosphorated, thymic com- 
bination, xanthic or pyrimidic bases, sugars, etc., which help to 
constitute in a perfect state the primitive essential proteids. 
But the cellular or molecular mould remains after the accessory 
parts have disappeared, and it tends to complete itself by means 
of the materials or analogous or identical couples which are 
brought to them by the blood enriched by digestion. Thus, the 
specific complete molecule forms itself anew, the remaining part 
of the organic construction involves and controls the disposition 
of the complement which has just nourished it. 

Assimilation then appears to us to be the result of a kind of 
continuous reproduction of these essential primary proteid 
molecules of the plasma and cellular nuclei, the specific forms of 
which would have been partially preserved owing to the greater 
stability of some of their parts. These latter would develop, 
owing to the surrounding nutritive medium, by extracting from 
it those materials which have sprung from the digestive divisions 
which, owing to their form, can repair the waste produced in the 
primitive proteid molecules of the cell : losses due to the partial 
destruction of the molecule which has performed its function. 
For, just as the entire cell reproduces itself in its primitive form 
when it has been injured, and as it repairs little by little the 
waste caused by the loss of substance or vital dissimilation, so 
one can understand the behaviour of the chemical integrant 
essential molecules of the nucleus and protoplasm. And if the 
free cells of yeast, the bacteria, the protozoa which possess the 
property of being able to nourish themselves and complete 
their substance by appropriating for themselves the surrounding 
matter which they disconnect, transform and continually assimi- 
late ; and if these same bacteria and yeast are named " figured 
ferments," in the same way we can give the title of ferments and 
ferments of proteid assimilation to those particular molecules 
of cytoplasma or of nucleoplasma which are able to reproduce 
continually their own substance at the expense of the surrounding 
material parts which they modify and assimilate in order to 
complete themselves. 

103 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

We know that the complex proteid matter in the intestine 
submitted to the action of the ferments of hydrolysis or dis- 
integration, divides itself into simpler parts. The same phenomena 
attend the divisions which take place in the cell. It possesses 
also dissimilating ferments. They appear to be contained 
there in the form ofjgranules, wliich under the microscope have a 
similar appearance, but their specific nature is easily recognized 
owing to their different effects. We have been able to extract 
simultaneously from a common body, aspergillus niger. the 
following : a rennet able to coagulate caseine ; a casease which 
liquefies and digests this coagulum ; a lipase suitable for 
splitting up the fats into glucose and fatty acids ; a sucrose able 
to transform, by hydration, the saccharose into glucose and 
levulose ; an amylase and maltase liquefying the starch and 
changing it into soluble sugar, etc. (Duclaux, Gerard, Bourquelot). 
Now, that which has been observed concerning this common 
organism, apphes to nearly all vegetable or animal cells. From 
the latter especially, we can always extract one or several proteo- 
lytic ferments which are capable of transforming the albumin- 
oids, after the manner of trypsin, into relatively simple amine 
molecules : leucin, glycocol, glutamic acid, tyrosin, etc., pro- 
ducts of more or less advanced disintegration, all resulting from 
the hydrolysis of the proteid molecule while functioning : and 
all formed by the transformation of a part of the virtual energy 
of the molecules into utihzable energy wliich the cell uses in 
furthering the life process. 

Like the ferments of protoplasmic assimilation, these ferments 
of dissimilation appear also to be essentially formed by the 
radicals or parts derived from the primitive albuminoid molecules. 
These radicals or soluble ferments preserve their specific mole- 
cular structure, a structure quaHfied to adapt itself to that of 
certain materials upon which henceforth they can operate, 
undoubtedly in virtue of the unstable combinations which belong 
to the very nature of these external forms. Reciprocally, 
those of the diastases which adapt themselves the best to the 
food which is offered to their activity, are also those which detach 
themselves easiest from the molecule which carries them and 
which appear in a greater quantity in the surrounding nutritive 
liquid. Thus, we perceive that the nature of these soluble ferments 
varies according to the food : aspergillus niger cultivated on 
glycerine or upon the starch of fecules, secretes chiefly amylase ; 
in milk it produces rennet and casease ; in solution with lactate 
of Ume, it furnishes sucrase with neither amylase, rennet nor 
casease. Likewise by a similar mechanism, emulsions of fresh 
liver or kidney injected into an animal of a different species 
produce Uttle by little in its blood a hepatolysin or a nephrolysin 
\yhich have the power of destroying the proteids of the liver or 

104 



I 



CELLULAR FERMENTS 

kidneys of animals belonging to the same species as those which 
furnished the stimulating agents of these specific secretions. 

Several of these ferments play reversible parts : they appear 
to operate until a certain equilibrium has been obtained between 
the fermentable materials and the products which are formed, 
the equilibrium being re-estabhshed if the Umit comes to be 
passed. Thus, according to Croft Hill, maltase which trans- 
forms maltose into glucose can, by acting on a somewhat con- 
centrated solution of glucose produce, not precisely maltose, but 
an isomeric body very similar to it, namely isomaltose. Accord- 
ing to Poitevin, the lipase of the pancreas would reproduce 
olein in the presence of a mixture of oleic acid and glycerin.^ 

E. Fischer and Armstrong have established that the diastase of 
kephir grains unites the glucose to the galactose in order to 
reproduce the isolactose which the kephir in weaker solutions 
splits up into glucose and galactose. But we perceive a priori, 
that the diastatic actions which are accompanied by little or no 
escape of heat, should alone be reversible. This fact assures me 
that the pure stomachic peptons, in somewhat concentrate or 
diluted solutions, cannot change into propepsines or albumins 
under the action of an excessive or feeble proportion of very 
active pepsin. 

We sliall terminate our observations concerning soluble fer- 
ments by remarking that they frequently supplement and 
mutually aid one another. Pawlow has established that pure 
pancreatic juice does not digest the albuminous substances but 
that, on the contrary, it dissolves them actively after the addi- 
tion of a few drops of a chilled intestinal infusion. This 
activity which excites the juice of the glands of the intestinal 
mucous membrane, and which disappears like nearly all diastases 
when the infusion of the glands is brought up to 80° or 100,° is 
due to a stimulating or complementary ferment of trypsin, the 
enterokynase which can be extracted from the mucous membrane 
of the intestine. 

This stimulating or complementary action of a ferment secreted 
by one cell on the ferment or on the operation of a cell of a differ- 
ent nature, appears to be a general phenomenon. It is thus that 
the internal secretions of the thyroid, suprarenal, testicular, 
ovarian glands, etc., act on nutrition, either by stimulating 
directly the life of certain tissues, or by exciting the secretion of 
their ferments, or by completing the action of the latter as is 
the case with the erepsin of 0. Conheim, which is able to 
transform th ; intestinal pepsins and propepsins formed by the 
trypsin and enterokynase into amino acids, while the erepsin 
alone is incapable of directly influencing the primary albuminoids. 

1 Poitevin, C. Rend. t. CXXXVI, p. 1,152. 
105 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

After having explained the idea which we have formed of 
these mysterious ferments which preside over general assimilation 
and dissimilation, I shall only briefly indicate the principal kinds. 

Ferments of Assimilation. — We have previously stated (p. 104) the 
manner in which we conceive that they work in the protoplasms. 

Ferments of Hydrolysis and Dehydration. — The ferments of 
hydrolysis are those which, by the intromission of water, promote 
the divisions which take place in the midst of the cellular pro- 
toplasms. Thus in every animal cell, there exist real trypsins 
wliich digest and hydrolyze the albuminoids in a slightly alkaline 
medium. Likewise we find albuminoids in nearly all the pro- 
ducts of digestion, peptons, propeptons, amine acids, etc. In 
the vegetable kingdom the starches, sucrases, maltases, lipases, 
etc., which hydrate the starches, sugar, maltose, fats, etc., are 
the well known representatives of these diastases most often 
with a reversible action. As regards the hydrolyzing fermenta- 
tions of albuminoid substances, I have already stated that they 
do not appear to me to be capable of reversing their action. 

It is owing to the phenomena of hydration taking place in the 
proteid molecules of the cytoplasmas that the latter, ^protected 
from all direct oxidation, are split up into globulins, albumoses, 
protamines, etc., and phosphoric cyteins. This second state, 
which contains all the phosphorus of the molecule, is capable 
of dividing itself by fresh hydrolysis into pyrimidic bases 
{thymin, uracile, etc.) into hexoses and phosphoric acid. 
The nucleoproteids or proteids of the cellular nucleus also divide 
themselves, by hydrolysis, into these same derivatives, but with 
the addition of the puric bases (guanin, sarcin, adenin, etc.) as 
intermediaries. It will be observed that all these derivatives, 
sugars, pyrimidic bases, puric bodies, with uric acid, etc., and 
urea itself which can be derived from them by simple hydrolytic 
reaction, all these bodies are formed without the intervention of 
the exterior oxygen. 

Oxidizing and Reducing Ferments. — Among these we include 
the oxydases of Schmiedeberg and Jacquet. In animals the 
principle appears to be found almost entirely concentrated in 
the white corpuscles.^ 

We find again an oxidizing ferment in the lacto-plasma, 
another in the hemolymph of the Crustacea. The oxydo- 
reducing ferments of the liver, kidneys and other organs 
change easily, while oxidizing, the salicylic aldehyde into 
salicylic acid {Abelous and Biarnez). That which MM, 
Abelous and Ribaut have extracted from the liver combines 
the glycocol witli benzylic alcohol which it oxidizes yielding 

1 Portier, thesis for the Doctor of Science degree of Paris 1897. Oxy- 
doi^ea in the Animal Series, p. 84. 

I06 



I 



CELLULAR FERMENTS 

hippuric acid. The laccase of the lac-tree [Hikorohuro Yosida; 
G. Bertrand), the tyrosinase of mushrooms {Bourqudot) are 
oxidizing ferments extracted from vegetables. 

A somewhat unexpected feature attributable to the tendency 
of ferments to frequently exercise inverse action, the oxydases 
of the tissues, especially those of the liver, possess at the same 
time a reducing or hydrogenizing power proportional to their 
oxidizing activity {Gerard, Abelous, and Aloy).^ They act as 
if, decomposing the surrounding or combined water, they convey 
the hydrogen on one molecule, or part of a molecule, and the 
oxygen on another. The liver and kidneys are the most charged 
with this singular ferment, the muscles and the brain the least. 

The researches undertaken in my laboratory by Dr. Helier in 
order to measure the reducing power of the tissues and liquids 
of the system 2 establish that, of all the media, lymph and the 
arterial blood are the most reducing ; then come venous blood, 
muscles, pancreas, kidneys, lung and spleen. The blood becomes 
especially charged with reducing products at the moment of digestion 
without it being possible to attribute this effect to a fermentative 
hydrogenating action. But is it possible to produce a more 
convincing proof of the necessity of the oxydases for promoting 
the oxidations of the system, than to see the cells irrigated by 
an essentially reducing blood ? ^ 

Ferments of Decompositions and of Re-composition. — The first of 
these was extracted in 1896 by Biichner from the yeast of fresh 
beer. When it is compressed to 500 atmospheres, a liquid 
proceeds from its cells which, mixed with a solution of slightly 
concentrated glucose (15 to 20 per cent.), immediately changes 
this body into alcohol and carbonic acid, exactly as the living 
yeast would do. 

Stoklasaand Cerny, in 1901, extracted * a similar ferment from 
animal tissues which also changed glucose into alcohol and 
carbonic acid : 

Q6JJ12 06 = 2C02 + 2C2H«0. 

They have found in human tissues another soluble ferment 
which divides the glucose into two molecules of lactic acid. 

These are the dissimilating ferments by decompositions. 

Coagulating and Liquefying Ferments. — The fhrine ferment which 
changes fibrinogen into fibrine ; thrombin which coagulates all 
the plasmas of animal cells ; rennet which curdles the casein of 

1 G. R., t. CXXX, p. 426 ; t. CXXXIV, p. 479 ; t. CXXXVII. 

2 C. R., t. CXXVIir. p. 319 and 687. 

3 Helier measured this power by reduction of permanganate. The 
action of the tissues might have been very different in the ease of another 
reagent. 

* See M. Bourquelot's articles in the Jonrn. de Pharmacie, sixth series, 
t. IV, p. 241, 440 and t. V, p. 8. 

107 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



milk ; and in the vegetable kingdom, pectine which coagulates 
certain juices of fruits, are all examples of coagulating ferments. 
On the contrary, casease which redissolves the curdled casein 
theaw<^7Arom6me5, etc., are decoagulating ferments, as in the case 
of vegetables, it is cytase which liquefies the envelope of the cells. 

All these ferments serve either to transmit the plastic or 
nutritive matter in soluble forms where it can circulate and 
later be oxidized or, on the contrary, polymerize, coagulate and 
render it insoluble, in order to store it, until the system has 
recourse to the reserves thus formed for the maintenance of the 
cellular life or the general functions. 

Products of Dissimilation. — It is now possible to rapidly examine 
the effects of this dissimilation of the primary albuminoid matter, 
or of that of the reserves stored in each cell, a dissimilation tlie 
working of which we have just studied. By entire disintegration 
in warm blooded animals, 100 grms. of albumin could theoretically 
produce 1 65 • 4 grms . of carbonic acid ; 4 1 • 4 grms . of water ; 39 grms . 
of urea ; 4-25 grms. of sulphuric acid, while absorbing at the same 
time 148 grms. of oxygen taken from the air, thereby adding 486 
Calories to the body. But, as a matter of fact, the total nitrogen 
is not found again in the urea produced, and the percentage 
proportion which is formed from it depends upon the state of the 
patient's organism and on his manner of feeding. In the case 
of the man of normal health, feeding on a mixed diet, 100 parts 
of nitrogen leave the system by urinary excretion as follows : 



In the form of urea .... 

„ „ ammoniacal salts 

,, ,, uric acid and xanthic bodies 

„ „ other nitrogenous matters . 



Gumlich gives the following percentages 



83-87 
2-5-5 
1-3 
7-10 

100 





Blixed Biet. 


Animal Diet. 


Vegetable 
Diet. 


Nitrogen 

In urea 

In ammoniacal salts .... 
In other nitrogenous matters . 


82-9-87-3 
3-8- 5-8 
8-0-119 


79-2-88-2 
3 5- 5-6 
7-5-17-2 


769-83-4 

3-4- 8-6 

10-5-17-6 



In the normal state, almost the whole of the absorbed nitrogen 
is found again in the total liquid and solid excreta of the subject 
(hair of the body, hair of the head, epidermis, faces). 

Urea, uric acid, ammoniacal salts, generally combined with a 
small amount of nitrates, are the final products of nitrogenous 
dissimilation, and the numbers in the above tables give no infor- 
mation concerning the intermediary substances, nor the nature 

io8 



NITROGENOUS PRODUCTS OF DENUTRITION 

of tlie nitrogenous residues known as extractives or indeterminates . 
It will be seen in Part II, under the study of Begimens, 
how very important these intermediaries are which, in the case 
of meat alimentation for example, produce an excess of nitrogen- 
ous substances in the system which have a tendency to acidify 
the blood, excite the heart, and intoxicate the subject, should 
there be the slightest disorder in the functions of the skin, lungs, 
liver or kidneys. 

Among the best known intermediary nitrogenous products 
are the following : 1st, the amino-acids such as glycocol, 
CH^NH^CO^H, and taurine CH2(NH2)CH2(SO=^H) which the Hver 
normally secretes in the form of glycocholic and taurocholic 
acids, or the kidneys under the form of hippuric acid (benzoyl- 
glycocol). It is these which, like the ammoniacal salts and 
ammonia resulting from a more advanced hydration, passing 
through the hver, produce urea. Among the amine bodies the 
following must be quoted : Tyrosin or paraoxyphenylamido'pro- 
picnic acid : 

„,„, .Cff - CH(Nff )C02H 

a substance produced by hydrolytic decomposition of the greater 
part of the albuminoids ; and in its turn, giving by the same 
process, alanine CH^CH(NH^)CO^H, lactic acid and phenol ; 
2nd, the creatinic bases, especially the creatin of the muscles 

NH^ 
NH = C<j^^(,jj3) _cH2 _.C02H ; 

the creatinin of the urine 

NH = C<-^^^^jj3^(^jj2>CO ; 

3rd, the lysatin and arginin, amines which are found in many 
of the glands : spermin ; neurin 

^^ ICH = CH^OH 
and cholin 

nJ C^H^OH 

i HO 
very poisonous bases of the brain and bile. 4th, the bodies 
of the pyrimidic series ( Uracile C*H*N^O^ [or 2-6 dioxypyrimidine] ; 
Cytosin [or 2 oxy-6 aminopyrimidine], thymine [or 5 methyl-2'6 
dioxy-pyrimidine]), rare bases, however, but necessary inter- 
mediaries of the decomposition of primary cellular proteids ; 
5th, the puric bases partly derived from the nucleo-proteids of 
the cellular nuclei of the system, and partly introduced by alimen- 
tation, amongst these are xanthin C^H*N*0^, sarcin C^H*N^O, the 
methyl and paraxanthins, adeninG^H.^'^^,methylgiuinin, etc., bases 

109 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

found in most of the glands. According to Kriiger and Salomon, 
1,000 litres of urine would contain about 9 to 10 grms. of these 
baises.^ Among these puric bodies, uric acid C^H*N^O^ is the most 
important. We eliminate by the urine 0-3 grms. to 0-5 grms. per 
day, but, with an entirely meat diet, the weight may increaae up 
to 2 grms. per twenty-four hours. We shall learn the part this 
variable production of uric acid plays according to the regimes. 
6th, it is necessary to add to these nitrogenous products of dissimi- 
lation urochrome, the normal pigment of the urine. It originates 
from the oxidation of a part of the colouring matter of the blood ; 
indoxylsulphuric acid C«ffNSO' or C«H«(SO='H)ON which draws 
away with it a part of the constitutional sulphur of proteid sub- 
stances. 7th, bases of the nature of ptomaines and some deriva- 
tives called nitrogenous extractives, sometimes not capable of 
dialysis, these latter being found extremely toxic, but in a very 
smaU proportion (01 30 grms. to 0150 grms. per litre of normal 
urine). 

It has been seen that the sulphur of the albuminoids is partly 
dissimilated in the form of indoxyl-sulphuric acid. It is foimd 
again among other products of cellular excretion : paracresol-sul- 
phate of potassium (with a little ortho- and meta-cresolsulphates) ; 
sulphocyanhydric acid ; neutral sulphurated bodies (trace of 
cystin, hyposulphites, taurin). The remainder of the oxidized 
sulphur of the albuminoids goes to saturate a part of the potash 
or of the soda of the tissues and the blood, and is ejected 
immediately in the form of mineral sulphates, by the urine 
which produces nearly 4 grms. per twenty-four hours. 

The constituent phosphorus of the tissues or that of the 
foods, is found almost entirely fixed in the state of combined 
phosphoric acid, in the nudeo- and cyto-proteids of the cells ; in 
the protagon, greatly resembling cyteins but possessing a neurinic 
and not a pyrimidinic or xanthic nucleus ; in the lecithins 
which appear to be derived from this protagon and which unite 
again in their molecule, the phosphoric acid, choUn, glycerin 
and fatty acids in consequence of a kind of etherification. A 
small part of the phosphorus of the foods or tissues (1 to 2 per cent, 
of the total phosphorus) is eliminated by the urine in the form 
of neutral products of which little is known ; the rest is rejected 
in the form of phosphates of which the urine produces nearly 
3 grms. per day. Nearly one-third of this mineral phosphoiiis is 
in the form of alkaline earthy phosphates and two-thirds in the 
forms of alkaline phosphates. 

Concerning the dissimilation of ternary bodies, amongst the 
urinary losses of an aromatic nature, I shall only quote : the 

1 Xanthin, 1-01 grms. ; heteroxanthin, 2-23 grms. ; methylxanthin, 
3«13 grms. ; paraxanthin, 1-53 grms. ; sarcin, 0-85 grms. ; adenin, 0-35 
;rms. ; epiguanin, 0-34 grms. 

no 



3«13 grms. ; paraxanthin, 1- 
grms. ; epiguanin, 0-34 grms. 



NON-NITROGENOUS PRODUCTS OF DENUTRITION 

phenols, scatols, benzoic acid obtained by decomposition of the 
tyrosins ; cholesterins which seem to have originally come from 
particular albuminoids of the blood corpuscles, from nervous 
tissue and from the protoplasm of young vegetable cells ; cere- 
hrins, etc. Among the non-aromatic ternary products it is 
necessary to place before all others, sugars {glucose ; inosit 
Cff^O*^), glycogen (C'^ffoO')", neutral fat bodies, and lastly 
fatty acids themselves {oleic, margaric, stearic, butyric acids). 
All these bodies appear capable of production from the direct or 
indirect division of albuminoids, with or without loss of carbonic 
acid. Under the influence of saponifying ferments, the fats 
produce glycerin, which is wholly or partially destroyed, and 
fatty acids, which, by combinmg with the alkalies of the blood, 
are oxidized by degrees until they are entirely transformed into 
carbonic acid and water, thus benefiting the system by an 
enormous amount of latent energy set free by this combustion. 
Heat thus produced represents nearly 85 per cent, of the total 
disposable energy. Among the other non-nitrogenous waste 
products of the system, are the lactic acids which are found in 
many glands and in the muscular juices ; oxybutyric acids which 
are sometimes found in the urine, and above all the acids in 
C"H2"-20* (oxalic acid C-H^O', succinic acid C^H«0*). 

A part of these last mentioned acids is introduced into the 
system directly in the foods, another proceeds from the dis- 
similation of the albuminoids and is produced in the normal 
state in our tissues. We eliminate every day 0002 grms. to 
0010 grms. of oxalic acid by the urine. In good health, the 
greater part of that which is formed transiently is destroyed in 
the organism, that which is introduced with the foods undergoes 
combustion like that resulting from the oxidation of fats and 
sugars or from the hydrolysis of pro teid bodies {Albahary). We 
shall revert to this point a propos of regimes and oxaluria. 

Besides the poisonous properties of the oxybutyric and oxalic 
acids (when under the influence of abnormal conditions of nutri- 
tion these bodies are produced in too great a number), they have 
a tendency to acidify the humours and to check the influence of 
the oxidizing ferments which could only operate in sufficiently 
alkaline media. This causes a marked state of acidity which 
is the origin of arthritis and a number of maladies said to be 
caused by retardation of nutrition. 

Origins of Vital Energy. — It has been shown in the preceding 
chapters that the actual quantity of energy which the ordinary 
amount of nourishment puts at the disposal of the average man 
in our own cMmates, is from 2,350 to 2,400 realizable Calories 
which can be measured in the calorimetric chamber. It is 
interesting to discover by what process this energy, virtually 
existing in food, passes into the organs of the system in a real 

III 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

and tangible form. We have seen that the nutritive principles 
assimilated or deposited in the cell are afterwards transformed 
by a series of reactions which simplify them and which determine 
the ferments : hydrations, decompositions, oxidations, etc. 
The Ufe of the cell and of the whole body arises from the trans- 
formations of this energy which from virtual becomes actual, 
whilst promoting the functions of the organs. 

Lavoisier was of the opinion that all heat proceeded from 
intraorganic combustion. R. Meyer discovered in 1842^ that 
animal force and animal heat had the same origin and that they 
could both reciprocally transform themselves in equivalent 
quantities. But Lavoisier's opinion that the origin of this 
energy should have been looked for exclusively in the com- 
bustions of the oxidizable principles of the system, was for a long 
time maintained. However, in 1866, M. Berthelot pointed out 
that a part of this heat may certainly be attributed to a series 
of hydrations and fermentative decompositions. Our organs 
are essentially formed^of albuminous matter which, by hydration, 
produces amino-acids ; in course of this transformation, these 
albuminoid molecules absorb nearly as many molecules of water 
as they contain atoms of nitrogen (Schiitzenberger). These 
characteristics are those of nitriles. M. Berthelot has established 
experimentally that every time nitriles are combined with 
water to produce amido-acids, they give off a somewhat large 
quantity of heat, between one eighth and one-tenth of the amount 
which would be produced by the total combustion of these 
bodies in a calorimeter. These hydrations, i.e. the first 
stage of the destruction of the constituent albuminoids in our 
tissues, are consequently a somewhat important source of heat 
for the system. It will be seen directly that the energy thus 
produced is not due, in any way, to oxidation, and that this initial 
stage of cellular activity is entirely anaerobic. I have been the 
first to insist strongly on this very important point of the analysis 
of the phenomena of animal cellular life. 

The transformation of carbo-hydrates into sugars and glycogen, 
into glucose by hydrolysis, liberates part of the latent energy 
of these principles. 1 grm. of starch by being changed into 
glucose and maltose, hberates 00026 Calories. The inter version 
with hydrolysis of cane sugar by yeast water produces 00112 
Calories per gramme of modified sugar.^ 

The molecular decompositions in their turn became sources 
of heat. When sweetened must ferments, it becomes heated 
owing to the transformation of its glucose into carbonic acid and 

1 Bemerkiingen iiber die Kraft {Ann. de Leibig, 1843). 
' Brown and Pickering, Chem. Soc, t. LXXI, p. 783, and t. LXXII, p. 
795. 

112 



ORIGINS OF VITAL ENERGY 

alcohol; tliis reaction produces 0167 Calories per grm. of fer- 
mented glucose. Similar modifications consisting of simply 
molecular decompositions occur at every moment in the various 
parts of the system. We know also to-day that our organs 
contain an alcohoHc ferment. The transformation of sugars 
into carbonic acid and fats is another example of these decom- 
positions, which are able to set free a part of the latent molecular 
energy of the principles which form our constitution. 

A few simple isomeric modifications can, in their turn, produce 
heat ; when cyanic acid, CNHO, which is so closely connected to 
urea and albuminoids, is changed in vitro into cyanuric acid, by 
trebhng its molecule, it sets free 0*336 Calories per grm. of acid 
thus modified. The changes of glucose into lactic acid and of 
levulose into glucose are examples of isomeric transformations 
taking place in our organs and furnishing us with energy without 
any intervention of free oxygen. 

But, as Lavoisier observed, the phenomena of oxidation are 
the most important sources of force and vital heat. These 
phenomena produce from 85 to 86 per cent, of total disposable 
energy. We have given in Chapter VI (p. 56) the table of theoretical 
degrees of heat which each aHmentary principle exhibits in the 
calorimeter. On p. 59 will be found the total amount of heat 
actually observed in the case of a man shut up in the calorimetric 
respiratory chamber. It would be necessary to deduct about 
14 per cent, of the total quantity of Calories really produced, in 
order to ascertain the true amount of heat due simply to the 
oxidations of these principles such as take place in our tissues. 

It is by the agency of ferments that the receiving centres of 
sensations augment or reduce the activity of the organs which 
are continually furnished by ahmentation with principles charged 
with latent energy. Slowly or quickly, according to the nature 
and order of succession of hydrolyzing, decomposing or oxidizing 
agents at work, the animal disposes at various points of variable 
quantities of energy which, in each organ, appears in the form 
of work, heat, chemical activity, etc., thus producing elementary 
functional activities, the disposition and order of which, directed 
by the nervous system, constitute the state of life. 



"13 



; PART II 

Aliments 

XI 

RICHNESS OF ORDINARY ALIMENTS IN FUNDAMENTAL NUTRITIVE 
PRINCIPLES — CLASSIFICATION OF ALIMENTS 

TAKING our stand on the statistics of the facts of alimenta- 
tion observed on a large scale, and comparing them with 
the daily losses of the economy in nitrogenous and ternary 
principles, as well as with its wants in heat and its expenditure 
of mechanical work, we have arrived by very different methods, the 
results of which agree however, at a determination of the normal 
alimentary ration of an adult man. We have expressed it in 
weight of each of the three kinds of fundamental nutritive princi- 
ples, albuminoids, fats and carbo-hydrates, which compose the 
ration for twenty-four hours, in the two principal states of repose 
or mechanical work. We shall see further on how age, sex, 
race, individual weight, exercises of the mind, climate, idiosyn- 
crasies, and above all the different pathological states ought, in each 
case, to modify the different diets in quantity and proportion. 
But in order to calculate and realize them, starting from the 
usual ahmentary principles, it is absolutely necessary to establish 
first the composition of the aliments which can operate in this 
way. By studying them and the preparations derived from 
them, we are able to state precisely our views and enlarge upon 
our means of action from the standpoint of rational alimentation, 
both for the healthy and the sick. Part II of this Work will 
treat of the origin, character, composition, variations, appli- 
cations and derivatives of each of our usual aliments. 

It would be practicable, for future raference and the calculation 
of the ahmentary regimes, to give here, at once and from its very 
beginnings, in some synoptic pages easy to consult, the average 
composition, in fundamental nutritive materials and mineral sub- 
stances, of our principal aliments. This is the object of the 
following tables. They allow us to calculate the amount of 
nutritive principles — albuminoids, fats, sugara or starches and 
minerals in a given ahmentary diet, when we know the quantities of 
meat, bread, fats, vegetables, fruits, wine, etc., which compose it. 

114 



COMPOSITION OF ALIMENTS OF ANIMAL ORIGIN 



Composition of the usual Pbincipaij Aliments with regabd to 
THEIR Fundamental Nutritive Principles, i 

(All those numbers are relative to 103 fresh parts in weight.) 





Albu- 




O O {ft 

1=1 a-2 








Aliments. 


min- 
oids. 


Fats. 


III 
o'aa 


Salts. 


Water. 


Observations. 


A. Meat of Mammals. 














Beef — average meat 


20-96 


5-41 


0-46 


114 


72-03 


According to J. Koonig, 












42 analyses (average) 


„ ,, of lean meat 


20-71 1-74 


— 


118 


76-37 


J. Koenig 


fat „ 


16-75 29-28 


— 


0-92 


53-05 


jj 


„ sirloin 


19- 17 6-86 


— 


l-38i73-48 


0-17 extract matter 


„ steak .... 


20-4 1 1-97 


0-4 


1-9 


74-7 


0-97 „ 


„ fillet (fresh) . . 


17-94 |15-55 


— 


0-78 


6511 


062 „ 


„ boiled „ 


35-1 


21 


— 


0-9 


56-9 


Balland 


„ roast ,, 


22-9 


5-19 


0-5 


10 


70-00 


,, 


Cow (av.) fat meat . 


19-86 


7-70 


0-41 


1-07 


70-96 


Koenig 


„ ,, lean meat 


20-54 


1-78 


0-01 


1-32 176-35 


jj 


Veal (av.) fat meat . 


18-88 1 7-41 


0-07 1 1-33J72-31 


,, 


„ ,, loan meat 


19-86 0-82 





0-50 78-84 


,, 


Mutton (av.) very fat 


16-62 


28-61 


0-54 


0-93 


53-31 


Koenig, Moser, Atwater 


meat 














Average mutton 


17-11 


5-77 


— 


1-33 


75-99 


Mene, Petersen 


" • • 


17-52 


6-23 


0-4 


1-25 


74-9 


0-49 extract mat. A. 
Gautier 


Pork (av.) fat meat 


14-54 


37-34 


— 


0-72147-40 


Koenig & Hammerbacker 


,, „ lean meat 


20-25 


6-81 


— 


110 72-57 


Mene, Petersen. 


,, (ham) .... 


15-98 34-62 


— 


0-69 


48-71 


., » 


,, salted and smoked 


25-07 8-18 


— 


71 


59-92 


j^ 


Ham — smoked . 


25-0 36-5 


— 


10-0 


27-0 


,, 


Beef — salted 


21-8 ill-5 


— 


11-7 


55-0 


Mene, Petersen 


,, smoked and salted 


271015-35 


— 


10-59 


47-7 


J. Koenig 


Horse (av. flesh) 


21-71 ! 2-55 


0-46 


1-01 


74-27 


According to J. Koonig 


Hare (leg) .... 


23-14 


1-97 


— 


1-19 


74-6 


,» >> 


Venison 


19-77 


1-92 


1-42 


1-13 75-76 


Von Bibra 


Rabbit 


21-47 


9-76 


0-75 


1-17 


66-8 


„ 


B. Meat of Birds. 














Meat of fat fowl 


18-49 


9-34 


110 


0-91 


70-06 


According to J. Koenig 


„ lean fowl . 


19-72 


1-42 


1-27 


1-37 


76-22 


,» >. 


Turkey (fairly fat) . . 


24-70 


8-50 




1-20 


65-60 


Atwater 


Goose 


15-91 


45-59 


— . 


0-49 


38-02 


J. Koenig 


Partridge .... 


25-26 


1-43 


— 1-39171-96 


,, 


Pigeon 


22-14 


1-00 


0-76 1-00 75-10 


Von Bibra 


Duck — domestic 


— 


— 


— 


— 


,, 


„ wild .... 


23-80 


3-69 


1-69 


0-93 


69-89 


C. Krausch 


Thrush 


2219 


1-77 


1-39 


1-52 


73-13 


J. Koenig 


C. Flesh of Fish and its 














Derivatives. 














Salmon (average) 


21-60 12-72 





1-39 64-29 


Atwater and Woods 


Fresh water eel . 


12-83 28-37 


053 


0-86 157-42 


A. Almen 


Fresh herring 


14-55 


9-03 


— 


1-78 174-67 


Atwater and Woods 


Mackerel (average) . 


19-36 


8-08 





1-36 


71-20 


A. Almen 


Shad 


18-76 


9-43 





1 35 


70-44 


Atwater and Woods 


Haddock .... 


16-93 


0-26 




1 31 


81-50 


W. 0. Atwater 



1 A great number of the data of these tables, particularly those which are sliown as being 
averages, are taken from the important work of J. Koenig, Chemische Zusammensetzung der 
menschlichen Nahrungs und Genussmittd, Berlin, 1889. — Several of the others are borrowed 
from various authors, especially from the works of M. BaUaiid, principal chemist to the army ; 
who has published them successively for 15 years in the Comptes rendus de I' Acad, des sciences 
and the Journal d'hygiine et de midecine Ugale, BaUliere, publisher. 

115 



DIET AND'DTPITETTCS 









iiS . 






^ 




Albu- 




§11 








Aliments. 


min- 


Fats. 


Salts. 


Water. 


Observations. 




oids, i 


III 

o-as 








Cod (gadua morrhua) (av.) 


16 23 0-33 


_ 


1-36 


72-25 


Atwater and Woods 


Dab 


18-71' 1-93 


— 


101 


78-35 


i» >» 


Sturgeon .... 


1808 1-90 


— 


1-43 


78-59 


>> • 


Solo 


17 -26! 0-81 


— 


0-87 


79-20 


Balland 


Pike 


18-35 


0-66 


— 


108 


79-50 


,, 


Carp 


15-71 


4-77 


— 


0-54 


78-90 


f» 


Trout 


17-52 


0-74 


— 


0-80 


80-50 




Skate 


22-08 


0-45 


— 


0-17 


76-40 


,j 


Dried and salted cod . 


81-54 


0-74 


— 


1-56 


16-16 


Av.of numerous analysss 


Salted and smoked cod 


2707 


036 


— 


22-10 


50-54 


Average 


„ herring . 


18-90 


16-89 


1-57 


16-41 


46-23 


„ 


„ and smoked herring 


36-76 


15-74 


— 


13-12 


34-38 


Atwater and Woods 


Caviare (average) . 


30-79 


15-66 


1-67 


8-09 


43-89 


— 


D. Accessory parts of 














Animals : Offal, 














Blood, Brains, etc. 














Derivatives of meat. 














Blood of animals (on an 


6-42 


0-18 


— 


0-83 


80-82 


According to J. Koenig 


average) 














Blood of beef 


7-09 


0-22 


— 


0-87 


79-61 


Poggiale 


„ mutton 




8-82 


0-18 


0-20 


0-98 


79-80 


,, 


„ pork 




7-68 


019 


— 


0-79 


76-89 


H. Nasse. 


„ chicken 




5-31 


0-20 


— 


0-87 


79-34 


„ 


Bacon — not salted 




0-41 


98-53 


— 


traces 


1-26 


J. Koenig 


„ salted . 




9-12 


75-75 


— 


„ 


9-15 


Mene 


Brains 







— 


— 


,, 


76-0 


,^ 


Calf's liver . 




17-66 


2-39 


— 


1-68 


72-80 


Von Bibra 


Kidneys — veal . 




22-13 


2-77 


— 


1-25 


72-85 


,, 


,, mutton 




16-56 


333 


0-21 


1-30 


78-61 


,, 


Tripe — pork 




23-00 


11-32 


— 


0-84 


63-84 


J. Koenig 


Tongue — beef 




17-10 


18-10 


— 


1-0 


63-80 


Atwater 


Lights 




12-37 


2-46 


0-21 


3-93 


8103 


J. Koenig 


Liebig's Extract 




30-86 


— 


3-20 


22-39 


15-26 


A. Gautier 


Beef tea . 




0-75 


— 


0-14 


0-41 


91-0 


„ (0-38 soluble salts) 


Lard (molted) 




0-26 


99-04 


— 


traces 


0-70 


J. Koenig 


E. Egg and its parts. 














Fowl's egg — entire . 


12-55 


12-11 


0-53 


1-12 


73-67 


Av. according to J. 

Koenig 


„ ,, the white . 


12-87 


0-25 


0-77 


061 


85-50 


>> 


„ „ the yolk . 


1612 


31-39 


0-48 


1-01 


5103 


>> >> » 


F. Milk and its Deriva- 














tives. 














Human milk (av.) . 


2-29 


3-78 


6-21 


0-31 


82-41 


Casein l-03,albuminl-26 


Cow's milk (av.) 


3-66 


3-62 


4-48 


0-68 


87-22 


„ 3-18, „ 0-48 


Cow, morning milk (av. ) 


3-24 


3-06 


4-88 


0-74 


88-08 


— 


,, evening ,, ,, 


3-19 


3-62 


4-99 


0-71 


87-49 


— 


Ewe's milk .... 


6-52 


6-86 


4-91 


0-89 


80-82 


Casein 4-97,albumin 1-55 


Mare's milk .... 


1-89 


1-09 


6-65 


031 


90-06 


— 


Ass's milk .... 


2-22 


1-64 


5-99 


051 


89-64 


Casein 0-67, albumin 1-55 


Skim milk (av.) . 


4-03 


1-09 


404 


0-72 


90- 12 


Average 


Preserved milk (without 


11-92 


12-42 


14-49 


2-18 


68-99 


„ 


sugar) 














Preserved milk (with 


11-79 


10-35 


5006 


2-19 


25-61 


Sugar of milk 13-84, 


sugar) 












ordinary sugar 36-22 


Cream of milk . 


3-76 


22-66 


4-23 


0-53 


68-82 


Average 


Butter 


0-80 
to 
3-6 


83-10 




0-07 
to 
3-6 


6 to 
20 


Swedish butter 



ii6 



COMPOSITION OF ALIMENTS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN 





Albu- 










Aliments. 


min- 
oids. 


Fats. 


other 

nitroge 

materii 

> 


Water 


Observations. 


Normandy butter (av.) 


0-80 


86-4 


018 — 


12-95 


E. Declaux (0-80 casein) 
comprising the ash 


Cheese, Gervais . 


14-32 !43-22 


— I 1-42 


41-04 


Average 


„ Brie and Camem- 


18-97 I25-87 


0-83: 4-54 


49-79 


„ Payen, Duclaux 


bert 






1 






,, Cantal . 


:24-59 


34-70 


— ! 4-45 


36-26 


Duclaux 


„ Cheshire 


27-68 


27-46 


6-89 501 


33-96 


Payen, Wolcker 


„ Gruyere or Emm- 


29-49 


29-75 


1-46 4-92 


34-38 


Average 


menthaler 






j 






„ Gorgonzola (av.) 


25-91 


32-14 


0-23; 4-00 


37-32 


Moser, Duclaux 


„ Dutch (av.) 


28-21 


27-83 


2-50' 4-86 


36-60 


2-43 salt added 


„ Roquefort . 


25-25 


30-61 


1-90' 5-39 


36-85 


3-10 of NaCl added on 
5-39 


„ Parmesan . 


4119 


19-52 


118 6-31 


31-80 


Average 


Whey 


1-86 


0-32 


4-79 0-65 

, 1-91 
alcohol 


93-38 


Average 












Koumiss (of mare's milk) 


2-24 


1-46 


177 0-42 

sugar, 
1 milk) 


90-44 


Av. with 0-91 lactic acid 








f 1-14 








„ do (of cow's milk) 


2-66 


1-83 


/alcuho 
4-09 
I sugar 
( 078 
alcohol 


0-68 


89-10 


„ » 0-55 „ 


Kephir 


345 


1-44 


\ 2-41 


0-43 


91-21 


„ .. 1-02 „ 








V Bttgar 1 






0. Molluscs. Crustacea. 














Reptiles. 














Oysters 


8-7 


1-43 


— 


204 


80-5 


Balland 


Mussels 


11-2 


1-21 


— 1 1-3 


82-2 


jj 


Snails 


16-1 


108 


— ' 1-55 


79-3 


„ 


Turtle 


16-2 


116 


— 2-91 


77-6 





Lobster 


18-13 


1-07 


— ; 2-47 


77-7 


0. At water 


Frogs 


16-4 


01 


— 1-6 


80-4 


— 


H. Cereals and their 












Flours ; Bread. 






1 






American com (whole) . 


11-60 


2-07 


69-47 1-79 


13-37 


Av. In addition 1 70 
cellulose 


French and foreign 


12-64 


1 41 


68-92' 1-66 


13-37 


In addition 2-0 cellulose 


wheats (av.) 














Rye (whole) 


12-90 


1-98 


68-11 


1-93 


13-37 


Av. and add 1-71 cel- 
lulose 


Oats (whole) 


10-66 


4-99 


58-37 


3-29 


1211 


Av. of France. With 
10-58 cellulose 


Wheat flour .... 


10-21 


0-94 


74-71 


0-48 


13-37 


Av. with 0-29 cellulose 


Rye flour 




11-57 


2-08 


68-61 


1-14 


13-71 


„ „ 1-59 „ 


Barley flour 




11-38 


1-63 


71-22 


0-59 


14-83 


„ „ 0-45 „ 


Oat flour 




9-65 


3-80 


69-65 


1-33 


14-21 


» ,, 1-46 „ 


Buckwheat flour 




8-87 


1-56 


74-25 


1-14 


13-51 


„ ., 0-67 „ 


Maize flour . 




7-12 


7-4 


60-68 


1-1 


17-4 




Rice flour 




5-6-4 


0-8-4 


78-83 0-68 


14-4 




Fresh wheat bread . 


7-0 
-9-3 


0-85 


46-55 0-6-1 


33-40 


Crust, 22-25 ; crumb, 
77 to 75 per cent. 


„ „ average . 


706 


0-46 


52-56 109 


35-59 


Fine German bread. 
Besides, sugar 4-02 and 
cellulose 0-32 



117 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





Albu- 


IIU 








Alimento. 


min- 
oids. 


ther 

troge 

aterit 


Salts. 


Water. 


Observations. 








o-as 








Rye bread .... 


611 


0-43 


46-94 


1-46 


42-27 


Besid&s, 2-31 sugar ; 
cellulose 0-49 


Rye bread made with 


7-59 


1-51 


41-87 


1-42 


43-42 


Be.sides, 3-26 sugar, 


whole grain i 












0-94 cellulose 


/. Seeds of Leguminosa. 














Haricot, dry (whole) 


13-8 
-25 


1-95 !52-9 
1 -602 


2-a-4 


10-20 


Balland 


„ „ (average) . 


23-6 


1-96 55-6 


3-66 


11-24 


According to many 
(with 3-88 cellulose) 


Broad beans, dry (av.). 


22-26 


1-5 57-5 


2-5 


13-0 


According to many 
(with 3-88 cellulose) 


Lentils, dry (average) . 


203- 


2-4- 56- 


2- 


11-13 


Balland. 




26-8 


1-5 i 62 3 


2-66 






Peas (average) . 


18-9- 


1-2- 62-2- 


2-2- 10-6- 


,, 




24-5 


1-4 611* 


3-5 14 




,» >> ... 


2315 


1-89 1 52-7 


2-6 13-92 


With 5-6% cellulose 


Soja trispida, yellow . 


3341 


17-68 29-31 


510 


9-89 


Av. with 4-67% cellulose 


K. Tubercles. 














Potatoes (average)'"' 


1-3 


0-15 


20-0 


10 


76-0 


Balland. 


„ Dutch , . . 


1-83 


— 


— 


— 


77-9 


„ 


„ called rod sausage 


1-46 


— 


— 


— 


76-9 


„ 


„ called royal blue 


1-56 


— 


17-3 


— 


72-8 


„ 


Sweet potatoes . 


1-50 


0-3 


16-5 


2-6 167-5 


Payen. 


Manioc 


117 


0-4 


28-3 


0-65 67-6 


„ 


L. Herbaceous Vegetables; 














edible Stalks and 














Roots ; Mushrooms. 














Beetroot — edible 


1-34 


0-14 


8-90 


1-14 


87-50 


Average ; J. Koenig 


Sugar Beetroot . 


1-27 


0-12 14-40 


0-82 82-25 


with 1-14 cellulose 


Pumpkin — edible . 


110 


0-13 6-60 


0-73 ,90-32 


Average 


Asparagus .... 


1-79 


0-25 2-63 


0-54 93-75 


„ with 1-04 cellulose 


Cauhflower .... 


2-48 


0-34 4-55 


0-83 90-89 


„ 0-91 „ 


Headed cabbage 


1-89 


0-20 4-87 


1-23 89-97 


„ 


Turnips 


1-54 


0-21 8-32 


0-91 87-8 


„ J. Koenig 


Boletus (Boletus adults) 


2-92 


0-61 4-72 


0-63 90 06 


F. Strohmer 


Mushroom — field (fresh) 


374 


0-15 3-51 


0-48 91-28 


Average 


„ cultivated 


4-67 


4- 3 13 
0-20 


0-46 91-0 

i 


— 


„ (cepes) 


4-89 


0-65 2-98 


0-83 90-6 


— 


Truffles— black . . . 


8-60 


0-62 810 


2-31 72-80 


„ J. Koenig 


Carrots . 




1-23 


0-30' 9-17 


1-02 86-79 


„ with 1-49 cellulose 


Spinach . 




3-49 


0-58 4-44 


2-09 88-47 


„ 


Salad (endive) 




1-46 


0-13 1-58 


78 94-13 


„ with 0-62 cellulose 


M. Oily Fruits 








1 




Almonds 




24-2 


53-7 9-7 


2-9 1 6-4 


66 % waste 


Nuts (average) 


. 


15-77 


57-43 1 13-03 


2-0 1 7-18 


J. Koenig 


Hazel „ 




17-41 


62-60 7-22 


2-49] 7-11 


„ 


Chestnuts 




4-8 


0-87 ,35-6 


1-52 53-7 


Moleschott 


Cocoa (nibs) 




8-88 


870 12-44 

1 


1-81 5-81 


4% of cellulose. 



1 German Pumpernickel. 

2 Not Including 2-5-4-6% of cellulose. 

3 Not including a-3-5 % of cellulose. 
« Not including 3-3-5% of cellulose. 

6 Three kgs. of fresh potatoes or 1,200 grms. of fried potatoes, contain about as much 
ftarchy and nitrogenous matter as 1 kg. of white bread. 

u8 






COMPOSITION OF ALIMENTS OP VEGETABLE ORIGIN 





Farts soluble in Water. 


Insoluble 
parte. 




Aliments. 


te 


Afl 


1 


R 


o SS 


•a 

a 




Observations. 




£ 


*S 


< 


§) 


r;=3 


f.i 


Is 






^ 


<1.S 

s 


£ 


3 


&n 


OS 






N. Sweet or Acid 


















Fruits. 


















Apples — edible (av.) 


84-79 


036 


0-82 


7-22 


5-42 


1-51 49 


About 0-2 insoluble 












1 




ash 


„ (maximum) 


890 


0-59 


1-88 


10-68 


— 13-79 


1-03 


„ 0-5 „ 


Plums (Mirabelles) . 


79-4 


0-38 


0-53 


3-97 


10-07 '4-99 


— 


R. Fresenius 


Greengages . 


80-3 


0-41 


0-91 


3 16 


11-46 3 39 


— 


„ 


Peaches (average) . 


800 


065 


0-92 


4-48 


7-17i6-06 


— 


Fresenius, Murgold 


Apricots „ 


81-2 


049 


1-16 


4-69 


6-35 '5-27 


— 


»> »> 


Cherries „ 


79-8 


0-67 


0-91 


10-24 


1-76:6-07 


— 


„ „ 


Pears „ 


83-8 


036 


0-20 


8-26 


3-54 4-30 1 — 


J. Koenig 


Strawberries „ 


87-7 


0-54 


093 


6-28 


0-48 2-85 iO-81 


With 0-53 fat 


Grapes — French 


77-81 


0-6 


— 


14-22 


— — 


0-53 


— 


„ (av. from Ger- 


78-17 


0-59 


0-79 


14-36 


1-96 3 60 


0-3 


R. Fresenius, Neu- 


man vineyard) 














bauer 


Prunes .... 


29-3 


2-26 


2-75 


44-90 


4-48 — 


1-37 


J. Koenig 


Pears (preserved and 


29-4 


2-07 


0-84 


29-48 


4-47 6-87 


1-67 


10-33 starch added 


dried) 










1 






Apples (preserved 


27-9 


1-28 


;3-60 


43-65 


4-84 4-99 


1-57 


With 5-56 starch 


and dried) 










1 






Raisins .... 


320 


2-42 


2-52 


54-56 


— 1-72 


1-21 


— 


Figs — dry 


31-2 


401 


— 


49-79 


— — 


2-86 


— 


Dates .... 


— 


0-2 


l — 


610 


— 


— 


— 


With 0-51 fat 



Aliments. 


1 


a . i 


-I 




CO 


o 


£■3 

Bu'S 


i 


Observations. 


0. Fermented Li- 




















quors ; Alcohol 




















(for 100 parts 




















in weight). 




















Red wine — Bor- 





7-80 


2-66 


0-27 


0-30 





0-57 


0-248 


Av. 0-73 glycerin 


deaux 


















added 


White wine — Bor- 





8-24 


303 














0-25 


Av. 0-97 glycenn 


deaux 


















added 


Red wine — Bur- 





7-8 

















0-18 


Av. 0-70 glycerin 


gundy 


















added 


Red wine from the 




8-8 














— 


0-30 


Av. 0-6-1-0 gly- 


South (France) 


















cerin added 


Tokay wine . 





9-03 


23-6 





1973 


— 


0-51 0-71 


Average 


Rhenish wine — 





80 


2-60 





0-20 





0-81 


0-23 


Av. with 0-85 


white 


















glycerin 


Rhenish wine — red 





8-0 


3-04 


0-32 


0-39 


0-15 


0-52 


0-25 


C. Neubauer 


Hungarian wine — 





8-0 


2-35 


0-17 


007 


— 


0-69 


0-20 


Av. with 0-77 


white 


















glycerin 


Cider (average) . 





2-92 


6-35 





1-72 


— 


0-37 


0-26 


J. Koemg 


Light beer „ 


90-53 


3-24 


B-23 


— 


0-20 


3-52 


0-14 


0-23 


„ 


Beer (average for 


90-10 


3-93 


5-79 


0-71 


0-88 


3-73 


0-15 


0-23 


Av. 0-165 glycerin 


home consumption) 


















added 


German beer of 


!89-01 


4-40 


6-38 


0-74 


1-20 


2-47 


0-16 


0-25 


J.Koemg. Average 


exportation 


1 


















Ale .... 


89-42 


4-73 


6-66 


0-61! 1 07 


1-81 


0-28 1 31 


•> >> 


Brandy 


— 


37-016- 


— ' — 


— 


012 — 


— — 






48 jO-5 


1 — 


— 


0-08 


— 




Kirsch 


— 


38-6-! _ 

42-4 1 


— i — 


— 


0-4- 
1-8 


— 


With 3-15 mgrms. 
of CNH per litre 



119 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Aliments. 



P. Other various 

Aliments. 

Chocolate in tablets (av.) 



Brown cane sugar . 

Honey (average) 
Sugar of starch , 



11 



618 

0-35 
0-76 



a3 . 



2102 sugar 1-89 

64-40 

starch 

4-40 

95- 11 



74-64 



0-76 



1-89 



2-16 



25 30-6 



64-33 0-66 16-99 



L Obserrations. 



With'0-67 theo-bromine 



With 1-78 of inverted 
sugar and 0-30 gums 
and acid. 

3-7 non-nitrogenous ext. 
mat. 

Of which 18-02 suIj- 
stances are organic 
materials not trans- 
formed into sugar. 



Decoction in water of 



100 grms. of roasted coffee 
100 grms. of ordinary dry tea 



Dry 
Extract. 



Nitro- 



Non- 
genous Essential I ""tfo- 
Sub- i Oil. 8»no^ 



25-60 
3364 



3 12 
1238 



6-18 



1314 
17-61 



Ash. 



4-06 
3-66 



These tables enable us to determine easily the richness of any 
portion in fundamental nutritive principles and of afterwards 
calculating it in Calories.^ They put before us the average 
composition of all our usual foods, neglecting for the moment 
their variations and accessory parts which will be treated success- 
ively in each case. 

These numerical data thus brought together give rise to the 
following remarks : 

Our foods provide us with the fundamental alimentary princi- 
► pies in very different proportions. 

The albuminoid bodies vary from 23 to 13 per cent, in the flesh 
of mammals, birds, Crustacea and some fish, wliile in salted or 
smoked meat and fish, they represent about a fifth of the weight 
of boned butcher's meat. The albuminoid matters in seed 
vegetables rise as high and even higher than 25 per cent. In 
boiled beef or mutton they reach 35 per cent. In cheese they 
vary from 15 to 44 per cent. 

We find from 13 to 8 per cent, of proteid substances in offa], 
brains, eggs, the flesh of some very fat fish, oysters, the meal of 
cereals, bread. 

1 On page 59 will be found the usual coefficients by which the weights 
of each of these principles ought to be multiplied, according to their origin, 
in order to obtain the real quantities of lieat furnished by them during 
Qonibustion in the bodies of animals. 

??9 



CLASSIFICATION OF ALIMENTS 

The proteid bodies only rise from 7 to 2 per cent, in milk, rice, 
mushrooms, dry fruits, starches and fata 

They fall to 3 and even 1-5 per cent, in some milks, such as 
human and ass's milk, in koumiss and kephir, in potatoes, 
cabbage, spinach, salad and mushrooms. 

They remain below 1 per cent, in most of the acid or aqueous 
fruits, fermented drinks, honey and chocolate. 

The fatty bodies vary from 99 to 85 per cent, in suet, lard, 
ordinary fats, butter, etc. 

From 62 to 45 per cent, in almonds, nuts, hazel-nuts, cocoa 
and also in foie gras. 

From 40 to 15 per cent, in fat meats, dry cheeses, the yolk of 
eggs, many very fat fish and chocolate. 

From 15 to 2 per cent, in fish in general. 

From 8 to 2 per cent, in the flesh of birds, offal, etc. 

From 4 to 1-8 per cent, in the lean meats of mammifers, birds, 
fish, game, liver, milk and in the majority of cereal flours. 

From 2 to 1 per cent, and under, in some fish with very lean flesh, 
blood, oysters, bread, dry vegetables, etc. 

Fats fall below 1 per cent, in potatoes, sweet potatoes, manioc 
and green vegetables. 

They are wanting in the majority of the fruits of rosaceae 
and in fermented liquors. 

The carbo-hydrates (sugar, starches and analogous bodies) 
vary from 78 to 58 per cent, in grains and cereal flours. 

From 57 to 46 per cent, in bread and the majority of grain vege- 
tables. 

From 28 to 16 per cent, in potatoes, sweet potatoes and manioc. 

From 15 to 7 per cent, in almonds, apples, cherries, grapes, the 
majority of root vegetables and in truffles. 

From 9 to 5 per cent, in many fruits, in ordinary mushrooms, 
carrot, turnip and also in milk. 

From 4 to 1 per cent, in some mushrooms, herbaceous vegetables, 
salad, offal ; in extracts of meat and in nearly all cheeses. 

From 1-2 to 0-5 per cent, in eggs, beer, koumiss, kephir and 
butter. 

From 0-5 to 01 per cent, in meat, beef-tea and dry wines. 

The mineral salts vary in animal matters from 002 (milk) to 
5-7 per cent, (cheese). 

In the vegetable matters they vary from 0-5 per cent, (aqueous 
fruits) to 5 per cent, (cocoa). 

These remarks are interesting from the standpoint of applica- 
tion. They allow us to choose in the very varied aliments 
furnished us by the two regimes, those which can introduce in 
the greatest abundance into our system, such or such necessary 
principles — nitrogenous bodies : mineral principles for example. 
They indicate to us how we may cause to disappear, as much as 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

possible, from alimentation, certain substances which have 
become harmful — ^fats and starches in the case of obese people ; 
sugars and other carbo-hydrates in the case of diabetics, etc. 
For the moment, we will draw from these data this immediate 
inference, viz. that it is not in the chemical constitution of ali- 
ments that we must seek for the principle of their classification. 
Without doubt, and in a general manner, we can say that animal 
ahments bring us above all proteid and plastic substances, and 
vegetable aliments, the carbo-hydrates or calorific or respiratory 
principles as well as mineral salts ; but, on the one hand, we see 
the leguminous fruits, peas, beans, lentils, haricots and some 
of the rosaceae, such a^ almonds, are richer in albuminoids than 
meat itself ; and on the other hand, that this latter, by means 
of the fat which accompanies it, can constitute a heat producing 
aliment as powerful as the vegetable aliments which are the 
richest in starchy or fatty substances. 

It is not owing then to the constitution or the richness in 
such and such immediate fundamental principles that we are 
able to class aliments. Above all, we will take notice of their 
origin, conforming in this to the usual practice and also to differ- 
ent theoretical considerations. We have, in fact, shown that 
the different proteid or plastic principles do not possess the same 
nutritive value or the same assimilability, although their com- 
position varies very little. According to their origin, be it 
animal or vegetable, they are more or less beneficial to us ; a 
certain quantity of albuminoids borrowed from the meat of 
mammifers, nourishes better than the same weight of proteid com- 
positions furnished, for example, by the leguminosae. 

On the other hand, as we shall see, each aliment tends to 
modify the living tissues and the functioning of the individual 
in a manner which is peculiar to itself : those of animal origin 
by acidifying the humoiu"s, moderating the oxidations, intro- 
ducing into the'plasmas some nitrogenous derivatives — stimulating 
and sometimes harmful ; those of vegetable origin, on the con- 
trary, by alkaUzation of the plasmas, and by bringing to them 
in abundance and in assimilable form, iron, phosphorus, alkalies, 
lime, magnesia, etc., of which they have need. This remark will 
amply suffice to maintain the division of aliments into those of 
animal and vegetable origin, whatever may be their relative rich- 
ness in proteid or ternary principles. 

By virtue of these considerations, we will first divide the 
aUmentary substances into organic materials (meat, milk, grains, 
vegetables, etc.) and into inorganic materials (water, salt and 
different salts). 

In the organic aliments we will study : — 
1st. Tfie organic aliments of animal origin comprising : the 
flesh of mammifers, birds, fish, Crustacea^ shellfish and the deriva- 

12^ 



CLASSIFICATION OF ALIMENTS 

tives of meat — eggs and milts — milks and the alimentary substances 
which come from them — fatty bodies of different origins. 

2nd. The organic vegetable aliments comprising : bread and 
the different flours ; vegetables in grain (peas, haricots, beans, 
etc.) ; potatoes, manioc and other edible roots ; herbaceous 
vegetables ; fruits proper, sweet, acid and oily. 

3rd. Aromatic and sweetened aliments and condiments compris- 
ing coffee, tea, cocoa, spices and different condiments, including 
sugar. 

4th. Alcoholic beverages such as wine and other fermented 
liquors : cider, beer, alcohol, etc. 

5th. Mineral aliments, that is to say drinkable water, salt 
and the other mineral substances which serve to nourish us. 

A propos of each of these aliments we shall have to show their 
origin, composition, characters, derivatives, their role in ali- 
mentation, and if need be, the mechanisms of their activity. 



123 



MEAT — ITS CONSUMPTION — THE FLESH OF EDIBLE MAMMIFERS 

MAN has always lived on fruits and meat. From his 
earliest existence he has hunted and devoured animals, 
as the bones found in the caverns of the quaternary period 
testify. Even at the present time in the most wild and 
miserable countries, man tries to capture animals, and in 
default of them, man himself, in order to obtain food. 

At this time, the most active and enterprising people are those 
who eat most meat. The rate of consumption of this food is 
raised everywhere in Europe with modern comfort and activity. 
Before the Revolution, it was scarcely eaten at all by the French 
peasant. Taine, in Origines de la France contemporaine, says : 
" According to the reports of the Commissaries, the^ founda- 
tion of liLs nourishment is oats ; in the district of Troyes, buck- 
wheat ; in la Marche and Limousin, buckwheat with chestnuts 
and beetroots ; in Auvergne, buckwheat, chestnuts, curdled 
milk and a little salted goat ; in Beauce, a mixture of barley 
and rye ; in Berry, of barley and oats. No wheat bread, no 
butcher's meat ; at the most, he kiUs one pig a year." 

The progress of civilization has greatly changed this state 
of things in all European countries, at least those of the Latin or 
Anglo-Saxon races. In 1852, in France, the average consumption 
of meat was already 20 kgs. per head per year. It reaches 
to-day 38 kgs. The EngUsh citizen eats in the year 59 
kgs. of meat or its derivatives. 

Here are the statistics which I have drawn up of the consump- 
tion, per head and per year, of the whole of the foods of animal 
origin in the various large towns of France^: 



1 According to the official reports of the Municipal Services and the 
registers of the octroi of the different towns quoted in this table. 

124 



MUSCULAR FLESH 



Towns. 


Years. 


Butcher's 
Meat. 


Cooked 
Meats. 


Poultry 
and Game 


Fish. 


Total of 

aliments of 

Animal Origin. 






Kgnn. 


Kgrm. 


i Kgrm. 


Kgrm. 


Kgrm. 




(1887 


671 


10-3 


112 


137 


102-3 


Paris 


ll891 


63-6 


10-2 


106 


11 2 


95-6 


" 1896 


61 


9-8 


i 115 


111 


93 4 




1899 


72-9 


12-9 


[ 12-5 


15-80 


113 1 




fl887 


58 


1 


5-4 


24 


66-8 


Lyons . 


-^1891 


55 


0-6 


4-9 


2-5 


610 




U896 


50 


0-5 


5-4 


20 


57-9 




ri887 


64 


25 


13 


83 


88-4 


Bordeaux . 


-^1891 


57-6 


34 


102 


93 


79-5 




U896 


56-4 


4-8 


12 


90 


82-2 




(1887 


54-7 


1-5 


34 


63 


61-9 


Marseilles 


J1891 


49-4 


1-3 


2-7 


60 


594 




11896 


45-2 


14 


2-9 


5-5 


550 


Rouen . 


. 1896 


473 


171 


5-8 


155 


85-4 


Hflvro . 


(1895 


361 


9-6 


2-5 


110 


59-2 


] 1896 


35-2 


10-2 


2-7 


110 


59-5 



Thus Paris consumes annually, per head, about 94 kgs. 
of meat and other foods of animal origin ; Rouen 85-4 ; 
Bordeaux 82-2 ; Lyons 57-9 ; Havre 59-5 and Marseilles 55 
kgs. The average of these six large towns is 72 kgs., much 
higher than the average consumption of the whole of 
France, which is at this time only 38 to 39 kgs., being 106 
grms. of fresh meat per day and per head instead of 269 grms. 
which the Parisian receives and which, as we have seen, corre- 
sponds to a normal rate. In a word, too little meat is eaten in 
our country places, and if more is consumed in the towns, where 
there is the most comfort, yet sensibly less of it is eaten than in 
England, where the consumption of animal matter is neverthe- 
less not excessive, rising only to 59 kgs. on an average 
in opposition to 94 kgs. per head and per year in the city 
of Paris, which is far from being extreme as I have shown. 

From these statistics, we conclude that it is desirable that 
the consumption of meat should increase in general without, 
however, reaching the high rate which it attains in certain well- 
to-do families of Paris or London. 

We shall observe that the preceding tables establish that the 
consumption of meat has tended to diminish in France for some 
years : at Paris it was above 103 kgs. per year and per head 
in 1887 ; in 1896 it was 93 kgs. It was on an average 94 
kgs. for the eleven years 1890-1900. At Lyons, it has fallen 
from 67 kgs. per head and per year to 58 kgs. ; at 
Marseilles, from 66 to 55 kgs. It is grievous to note, at 
the same time, in proportion as the quantity of meat consumed 
diminishes, that of alcohol proportionally increases. In France 
it was 2-70 Mtres per head and per year in 1870 ; 3-70 litres in 
1885 ; it has risen to 4-07 litres in 1895 ; and its consumption is 

125 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

still greatly increasing. It exceeds 9 litres in Denmark, 8 litres in 
Northern Germany, 5 litres in Switzerland and Holland, 4 litres 
in Sweden, etc. That is a state of things doubly to be deplored 
which a false conception of immediate fiscal interest and our 
regrettable present political morals keep up, at least in France, 
to the great detriment of the nation's future. 

We have seen that meat is pre-eminently the food of the worker, 
and he seems to want in France about 100 to 110 grms. of meat 
in twenty-four hours, if we rely on the conclusive observations 
of the regime adopted by the administrations and by the 
workmen collectively who produce the maximum of daily 
labour. Now, everywhere where the workman lacks meat, he 
drinks alcohol : this was reniarked long ago by Liebig, and we 
shall have to revert to it on several occasions. For the moment, 
it suffices for us to have shown that, in our large towns, the con- 
sumption of alcohol increases in proportion as the consumption 
of meat diminishes. 

Muscular tissue is the principal food borrowed by man from 
the animal kingdom. We will speak later of that of birds and 
fish. Meat called butcher's meat, which forms the principal 
subject of this chapter, comes especially from oxen, calves, and 
sheep. These animals furnish a little more than half of their 
living weight of it. As regards the remainder of saleable meat 
it contains for 100 parts, 10 to 23 parts of bone and aponeurosis, > 
from 4-5 to 13 parts of fat, and from 64 to 83 parts of muscular 
tissue proper including the interstitial fat of the muscular 
fibres, so that on an average, per kg. of butcher's meat, we can 
reckon : 

Bone and aponeurosis ....... 200 

Adipose tissue . . . . . . . 60 

Flesh proper ....... 740 

1,000 

These practical references have their importance in the 
calculation of food and diets. 

Whatever be its origin, flesh of good quality ought to be 
bright red, firm, elastic, grainy to the touch and close grained ; 
of a fresh and sweet odour. When cut, there oozes out under 
pressure a very minute quantity of clear red juice, slightly acid 
to litmus. On cutting good meat, fine branchings are seen which 
arise in well nourished animals from the infiltration of the muscu- 
lar tissue by fat. They give to these meats, generally excellent 
when they present this character, a marbled or spotted look of 
yellowish white upon bright red. 

Meat possesses a density of 1-055. 

^ In butcher's meat sold retail, bones represent from 18 to 20 per cent, 
on an average. 

126 



i 



COMPOSITION OF MUSCULAR FLESH 

Albuminoid elements form almost the whole total of the 
utilizable material of muscle separated from its adipose tissue. 

Treated by water, muscular tissue leaves an insoluble part a, 
and gives a soluble part b. 

a. The insoluble part is itself composed of three essential 
albuminoid principles, myosin, myostroin and ossein. The first, 
myosin, an albuminoid principle of the globulin class, forms 8 
to 11 hundredths of the weight of fresh muscle. It proceeds 
from coagulation, after death, of a syrupy and homotropous 
substance, which forms during life the clear part of the contractile 
fibrillae of striated muscles. It is an insoluble substance in 
water ; at the same time, like all the proteid bodies, nitrogenized 
and sulphurated (composition : C = 52-5 ; H = 7-0 ; N = 
16-7 ; = 22-3 ; S = 1-5). It dissolves, although slowly, in 
aqueous solutions of neutral salts alkaline to 5 or 10 per cent, 
(nitrates or chlorides), giving thus liquors coagulable towards 
60 to 70° and precipitable by an excess of chloride of sodium or 
sulphate of magnesia. Mj^osin also dissolves in water contain- 
ing 1 to I tliousandth of hydrochloric acid while transforming itself 
into syntonin. 

It is easily digested, even in vitro, by the gastric juice in acid 
liquor. 

Myostroin which accompanies myosin, albuminoid and like 
it insoluble, varies in the flesh of adult animals between 4 and 
5 per cent, of the weight of fresh muscle. It is that which 
constitutes the obscure striae of the fibrillae of red muscles. 
It is essentially formed by one or several nucleo-proteids and 
differs from the myosin by its insolubility in a solution con- 
taining 1 oVo t-h part of hydrochloric acid. We must remember 
here that the nucleo-proteids, which are met with especially in 
the nuclei of young cells, are the phosphorated albuminoid sub- 
stances, which water, helped by acids or the pepsic digestion, 
divides into albuminoids and nudeins. These latter transform 
themselves in the small intestine, by a more advanced hydrolysis, 
into peptons and nucleinic acids, acids fit to separate in their 
turn, by fresh hydration, into orthophosphoric acid, thymin or 
other bases of the pyrimidic series, carbo-hydrates and puric 
bodies (guanin, adenin, cytosin, uric acid, etc.). These last 
derivatives are not formed, if the primitive phosphorated proteids 
proceed from the cytoplasmas {cytoproteids or paranucleins) . 

It is by myostroin that the muscle furnishes phosphorus to 
the system at the same time that it carries to it the radicals 
which, by simple hydrolytic divisions, appear in the form 
of uric acid and other puric compounds playing a large part in 
troubles of the heart, as soon as their elimination becomes im- 
perfect. 

Ossein forms in the muscle the sarcolemmae and inter- 

127 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

fibrillar membranes which, by boiling in water, are tansformed 
into gelatin which, under the influence of cold water, coagulates 
into the form of meat jelly. 

b. The albuminoid part of m^uscular flesh soluble in water con- 
tains two substances forming together scarcely 2 to 3 per cent, 
of the weight of fresh meat, viz. an albumin and some peptons. 

The muscular albumin or myoalbumin wliich only represents 
about 1 per cent. of the total weight of the muscle, can be extracted 
by cold water. Heat causes it to coagulate. It is this which, 
during boiling, forms the scum on broth from meat, scum which 
is generally rejected. As to the peptons, a certain proportion 
of them are always found in the freshest meat, about a half 
to 2 per cent. Their quantity increases in proportion to the 
time the meat is kept ; the latter digests itself, or, as is generally 
said, becomes tender, before it is invaded by putrid ferments. 
The process of the meat becoming tender is then a kind of auto- 
digestion. In the case of meat kept under certain conditions 
in a damp state protected from putrefactive changes, it has been 
observed that this auto-digestion may cause to pass into a soluble 
state up to 12 per cent, of muscular matter, partly transformed 
into a soluble but coagulable albumin and partly peptonized. 
I have observed that at the time of this transformation, there 
appears also a weak quantity of a substance analogous to casein. 

When the muscular tissue, minced or grated, is again treated by 
cold water, there is left in an insoluble state myosin, myostroin, 
aponeuroses and fats, but the small quantities of myoalbumin 
and peptons which it contains, as also a small quantity of 
red colouring matter identical or very analogous to that 
of blood, and various substances soluble in water, are dis- 
solved, as well as lecithins, leucomains, or 'muscular bases, 
inosit, glycogen, lactic acids, different mineral salts. AU this 
soluble part, albuminoids excluded, scarcely represent 2 to 3 per 
cent, of the weight of the meat. The soluble mineral salts 
(about 0-5 to 0-7 per cent.) are composed of chloride of potassium 
with very little chloride of sodium, a trace of sulphates, but 
especially a great deal of bibasic phosphate of potash. There 
remains in the meat, drained by the cold water, myosin, 
myostroin, ossein, forming the aponeuroses, tendons and fats and 
about 0-5 per cent, of insoluble salts composed of phosphates 
of lime, magnesia and iron. 

These principal constituent materials of the flesh of mammifers, 
deprived of bone and rolls of adipose tissue, are in the following 
relations, calculated for 100 parts : 

Myosin .... 8-1 H Average of Extractive matters . 2-3 

Myostroin .... 4—5 '.albuminoids Soluble salts . 0-5-0-8 

Ossein and peptons . 2-3 1 18-5 per Insoluble salts . 0-3-0-5 

Myoalbumin . 1 •5-2-5 ■' cent. Water . . . 74-5-78 

128 



MUSCULAR FLESH 

The table below gives the composition of the fresh muscular 
tissue of various edible animals, after the packs of adipose 
tissue, interposed between the muscular strata, have been 
removed as much as possible. 

Composition of the Flesh op the usual Edible Mammifebs. 





For 1,000 parts in weight of Fresh Muscle. 




Mainmifers 




Beef 




Mutton. 






in 


Beef. 


(A. 


Veal. 


(A. 


Pork. 




General. 




Gautier). 




Gautier). 




a. Water . . . 


600-783 


600-780 


747 


723 


749-2 


474-725 


b. Organic matters — 














Myosin . 
Myostroin or 


35-106 \ 
78-161/ 


175 


109 6 » 
43 / 


146 


831\ 
44-9/ 


168 


nucleoproteids 














Myoalbumin . 


27-32 


22 


306 


26 


33-2 


20-88 


Elastin, keratin 








2-4 


— 


8-6 





and indigestible 














substances 














Gelatinous bodies 


— 


13 


22-4 


16 


133 


8-50 


and pre-existing 














peptons 














Fats. . . . 


35-160 


12-124 


19-7 


74 


523 


68-373 


Glycogen . 


4-5 


— 


3-8 


— 


4 


— 


Creatin . 


2 


>^ 


"\ 


\ 






Xanthic bodies 


0-4-0-7 







4 






Inosic acid . 


01 











Taurin . 


0-7 (horse) 


— 


9 7 J 




4-9 


— 


Inosit . 


003 





) 








Lactic acid . 


0-4-0-7 





^ 


0.7 






Unknown extract- 


— 


— , 








ive matters 














c. Mineral matters — 














Soluble . . . 
Insoluble 


= } 


19-20 


6-5 \ 
4-4 J 


13-3 


6-0 \ 
6-5 / 


7 2-115 


containing — 














Phosphoric acid 


34-5 


— 





— 


— 


— 


(P20S) 














Potash (K20) . 


2-9-5 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Soda (Na^O) . 


0-2-0-8 


— 





— 


— 


— 


Lime 


0-7-016 








— 


— 


— 


Magnesia 


0-2-045 








— 


— 


— 


Chlorine 


01-07 














— 


Fe203 . . . 


003-0 10 








— 


— 


— 


Total sulphur 


0-03-0 1 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


(measured in 














sulphate) 















For 100 parts of the flesh of beef, veal or mutton, the minimum, 
maximum and average of bases and acids have been, according 
to the analysis of E. Wolff: 



129 



K 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





Minimum. 


Mftximnrn, 


Average. 


K20 .... 


25 


48-9 


3704 


Na20 








00 


25-6 


1014 


CaO . 








0-9 


7-5 


2-42 


MgO . 








1-4 


4-8 


323 


Fe203 








03 


11 


0-44 


P205 . 








36 1 


481 


41-20 


S03 . 








03 


3-8 


0-98 


CI 








9-6 


8-4 


4-66 


SiOa . 








00 


25 


069 



In the ash of muscle, phosphoric acid, which comes chiefly 
from the nucleins, is united to the extent of two-thirds to the 
potash ; another part, not finding sufficient bases to saturate, 
renders this ash acid. The sulphuric acid that we find there 
comes especially from the sulphur of the albuminoids. It follows 
that the destruction of meat in the system tends to acidify the 
blood both by the mineral acids and the organic acids (uric, 
lactic, etc.), which originate from its decompositions. 

Muscular tissue, as well as the rest of the fate, has not the same 
taste, the same composition, nor the same nutritive and venal 
value for the various parts of the animal. Practically it is 




FlO. 3. — 1. Rump. 2. Steak with little bone. 3. Round. 4. Back. 

6. Fillet (interior part). 7. Round of beef. 8. Sirloin with fillet. 
9. and 11. Top ribs. 10. Gristle ribs. 13. Back of shoulder bone. 

14 and 19. Sticking. 16 and 17. Clod of beef, 18. Neck. 20. Flank. 

21. Plate of Ix^cf. 23. Brisket. 24. Shin. 25. Lower Shin. 26. 
Leg of beef. 27. Lower Leg of beef. 

130 



DIFFERENT PARTS OF AN OX 

necessary, from this point of view, to class and name each of them. 
We give here (Fig. 3 and legend) the indication and name 
of the principal parts of the animal, as distinguished by the 
retailer who cuts them up and places them on sale, each of them 
at very different prices. 

Here are besides, examples of the composition of various parts 
of muscular tissue taken from the same animal : 



Centesimal Composition of Different Parts of an Ox (Ch. Mene). 





Shoul- 
der. 


Rump. 


Sirloin. 


Round 
of Beef. 


Midrib. 


Fillet. 

71-20 
201 

11-46 
4-71 

9-86 
0-75 

351 


Upper 
Cut. 


Water- 

Soluble albuminoids ^ 
Tendons & membranes 2 
Collagenous and waste 

matters 
Fat matters 
Mineral salts . 

P205 3 

Total nitrogen for 100 
parts .... 


70-83 
309 

15-21 
633 

308 
1 45 
0-42 
441 


72-50 
3-65 

10-49 
7-18 

5-16 
101 
019 
355 


74-60 
2-50 

1353 
301 

5 42 
0-92 
033 
306 


68-91 

4-05 

1353 

8-45 

4-16 
0-90 
0-30 
5 11 


72-10 
4-73 

10-10 
5-71 

6-41 
0-95 
029 
335 


71-40 
2-71 
8-18 
6-10 

9-60 
201 
0-21 
451 



Centesimal Composition of the Different Parts of a Calf for 100 

FRESH parts. 



Water 

Soluble albuminoids * . . . . 
Tendons and membranes 
Collagenous and waste matters •'' . 

Fatty materials 

Mineral salts 

of which P205 = . . . . 
Average of PSQS =0-09 grms. p. 100 
Total nitrogen for 100 parts 



Shoulder. 


Fillet. 


Neck. 


Brisket. 


76-57 


72-50 


7521 


69-66 


2-01 


203 


1-49 


153 


3-09 


8-14 


2-20 


6-49 


13-00 


13 11 


13-83 


13 12 


362 


2-68 


618 


7-42 


1-71 


1-54 


1-08 


1-78 


0-11 


0-12 


0-07 


0-10 


2-92 


3 12 


2-30 


230 



Cutlet. 



76-26 
1 33 
6-72 

1251 
5-12 
1 67 
0-07 

2-' 2 



The average of a large number of percentage analyses of beef 
and veal, fat and lean, has given according to J. Koenig: 

■1 Part of the muscular flesh soluble in cold water with the addition 
of a thousandth of HCl. 

2 Part resisting to water diluted with HCl, afterwards to boiling. 

3 The average in F^O^ is from 2g-9 for 1,000 parts of meat. 

* Part of the muscular flesh soluble in cold water with the addition of 
a thousandth part of HCl. 

^ Parts resisting to water diluted with HCl, then to boiling. 



131 



DIET AND DIETETICS 







Beef. 




Veal. 




Very fat 
Meat. 


Average 
Meat. 


Lean 
Meat. 


Fat 
Meat. 


Lean 
Meat. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters 
Fatty matters . . . 
Non-nitrogenous extract- 
ive matters 
Mineral salts .... 


5301 
16-75 
29-28 

0-92 


7203 

20-96 

5-41 

0-46 

1 14 


76-37 

20-71 

1-74 

1 18 


7231 

18-88 

7-41 

007 

133 


78-84 

19-86 

0-82 

0-50 



According to Mene, the composition of the most edible parts 
of sheep is as follows : 

Composition of the Differknt Parts of the Flesh of Sheep (fob 
100 fresh parts.) 



Water 

Soluble albuminoids i 
Tendons and membranes 2 
Collagenous and waste matters 

Fatty matters 

Mineral salts 

of which P20s= . . 
Total nitrogen .... 



Leg. 


Shoulder. 


Chop. 


Neck. 


75-50 


75-70 


7550 


7453 


3-82 


4 14 


354 


325 


10-28 


9-75 


10 50 


11 54 


15 


014 


0-28 


0-85 


8-76 


9 03 


8-55 


8-52 


1 47 


1-26 


1 62 


1 32 


0065 


0078 


0-180 


0090 


1-68 


1-99 


1-69 


1-57 



The average composition of the flesh of sheep according to the 
numerous analyses of J. Koenig and Miitschler, Moser and Meisl, 
O. Atwater, Mene, Petersen, etc., is as follows : — 







Very fat Mutton. 


A^ 


erage Mutton 


W^ater 


5331 

16-62 

28-61 
0-54 
093 




75-99 


Nitrogenous matters (particularly 

minoids) 
Fatty matters 


albu- 


17 11 
5-77 


Non-nitrogenous extractive matters 
Mineral salts 


1 33 







The average composition of fat and lean pork is according to 
J. Koenig : 



Water 

Nitrogenous matters .... 

Fatty matters 

Non-nitrogenous extractive matters 
Ash 




Lean Pork. 

72-57 

2025 

6-81 

1 10 



1 Part of the muscular flesh soluble in cold water diluted with a 
thousandth part of HCl. 

\ Parts resisting water diluted with HCl, and then boiling. 



r 
r 



MUSCULAR FLESH 

The different parts of the meat of this valuable animal have 
not the same composition, as the following table, borrowed from 
Mene, shows : 

Percentage Composition of the Different Parts of the Meat of a 

Pig. 



Water 

Soluble albuminoids ^ . . . 
Tendons, keratins, membranes^ 
Collagenous and waste matters 

Fatty matters 

Mineral salts 

Total nitrogen 



Ham. 



69-60 
8-80 
710 

1007 
8-28 
114 
3 14 



Small 
Ham. 



69-32 
3-77 
715 

1355 
5-11 
110 
3-70 



Chops. 



73-00 
2-08 

10-46 
4-85 
8-65 
0-95 
2-16 



FUlet. 



7315 
212 
6-00 
9-20 
8-42 
1-10 
252 



Bib. 



74-11 
301 

1280 
1-94 
7-15 
0-99 
2-85 



On reading these various tables, so much more expressive 
because they interpret, for the most part, the averages of a 
large number of analyses, we notice : 1st, the relative rich- 
ness in nitrogen of beef compared with veal or mutton or even 
with pork. 2nd, the great variableness of the albuminoid 
bodies soluble in a thousandth part of hydrochloric acid and 
that of the indigestible residues, according to the various portions 
of the same animal, without the meaning of these variations in any- 
wise characterizing the idea that we generally hold of the digesti- 
bility, easy or difficult, or of the fineness of such or such parts 
of the flesh of the animal. Thus, in beef, the tendons, aponeuroses, 
etc., amount, according to these analyses, to 11-4 per cent, in the 
fillet and to 8- 18 only in the upper cut. 3rd, in all meats, fatty 
matters are very variable both as to quantity and quahty. 4th, 
in beef, the phosphoric acid may vary from the ordinary to as 
much more (upper cut 2 to 1 ; shoulder 4 to 2), and more still 
in mutton. 

At the same time as meats differ in composition, according 
to the parts of the animal, they also differ in sapidity. In the 
same animal, the flavour of the flllet, of the upper cut, of the 
leg, of the sirloin, etc., is different, as everybody knows. It is 
because the flavour of the meat depends less on its albuminoid 
matters than on the soluble extractive parts which accompany 
them, on their special fats, on the carbo-hydrates, etc., and above 
all on the modifications of these different substances caused by 
cooking. This flavour is accentuated where the fats, carbo- 
hydrates, fatty acids and phosphorated bodies are the most 
abundant. The matters of a basic nature called extractives 
such as creatin and the analogous leucomains, only contribute 
in a feeble degree to the sapidity of the meat by reason of their 

^ and ^. Same remarks as on page 132 (footnotes). 

133 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

slightly bitter taste ; but one cannot say that they heighten 
and improve the flavour of the flesh, because the flesh of animals 
which have been forced or overworked, which is very rich in 
these matters, is not agreeable to eat. 

The impression that muscular tissue produces on the gus- 
tatory papillae is especially owing to little known matters, 
furnished to the animal by its usual food or resulting from 
cooking. 

Meadow pasture, especially in sea-watered meadows, or the 
fattening up in the stable with sweetened hay of certain 
regions, improves the meat very much. 

The flesh which young animals (calves, lambs, kid§, etc.), 
nourished with milk only, provide, possesses an entirely different 
flavour from that of the adult animal ; it is developed by 
roasting. 

Animals fattened with grains, cabbages, turnips, oleaginous 
oil cakes, with the residue of meat or fish, give a meat of inferior 
quahty and often of very disagreeable taste. Everyone knows 
the dehcate flavour of thrushes and blackbirds kiUed in the 
autumn in a country where, as in Corsica, juniper berries abound, 
and, on the contrary, the fishy taste of certain kinds of 
palmipeds (ducks, blackdivers, etc.) which feed themselves on fish 
from the ponds inhabited by these birds. The inhabitants of 
the poultry yard, particularly the hen, the turkey hen, etc., 
provide a very succulent and sweetened meat, when they are 
only given grain, especially rice. These same birds have, on 
the contrary, flesh of a very disagreeable flavour, if they are 
given oilcake or flesh in their food, as happens in the case of 
a fowl brought up on the waste of large towns. 

The flesh of emasculated animals, whatever be the kind, is 
generally succulent and fat : it is easy to detect the taste of the 
meat of the ox compared with that of the bull ; that of the 
capon and pullet, with regard to the cock and ordinary hen. 
We know also that animals in rut — a cow, buU, he-goat, ram, etc. — 
furnish a mediocre or bad meat, the taste of which strongly 
recalls the odour of the animal. 

Chevreul long estabhshed the fact that rapid and forced 
fattening of animals for slaughter increased their fatty matters, 
especially in easily fusible principles (olein) ; their meats are 
more tender but less savoury, less nutritive and less stimulating, 
but richer in principles hable to gelatinize by cooking. I have 
also remarked that these meats are relatively poorer in myosin, 
syntonizable under the influence of hydrochloric acid, 1 in 1000, 
which only liquefies a small part of it. By their taste and feebler 
nutritive efficacy, they resemble the meat of the calf. 

The best butcher's meat is that of oxen fattened on pasture 
land and about six to eight years old. Here are also some figures, 

134 



DIFFERENT MEATS 

according to von Bihra, relative to the percentage composition 
of the flesh of young calves, older calves and young or old 
oxen : 



I 



Myosin, vessels, nerves 
Soluble coagulable albuminoids 
Collagenous matters . 
Extractive matters 
Fatty matters .... 
Water and waste matters . 



Calf, 4 
wks. old. 



15 00 
320 

2 10 

79-60 



Calf, 
1 yr. old. 



99 90 



1620 
2-60 

3 00 

78-20 

100-00 



Young Ox. 



1494 
1-29 

5-71 

78-06 



100-00 



Old Ox. 



1750 
2-20 

3 10 

77-50 
100-30 



As will be seen, myosin and the extractive matters of muscle 
increase with age, while water diminishes, as well as the albumin- 
ous parts — soluble in the cold and coagulable. The flesh of 
young animals gives up to 14 per cent, of its weight of extractives, 
whilst we find scarcely 1 to 3 per cent, in that of old animals. 
We know also the difference in the flavour of the meat of animals 
of the same age, according as they have or have not been exclu- 
sively nourished on milk. 

Contrary to the generally admitted opinion veal, richer in 
principles resisting the action of acid juices, poorer in myosin, 
more charged with nucleins, will be then more difficult to digest 
than beef of good quahty. The experiments of Penzoldt on 
digestibility seem quite to confirm these views (see p. 39), 
although it is always necessary to take account of the par- 
ticular susceptibility and habits of each stomach. As a 
general rule veal should be absolutely forbidden to those who 
have the least tendency to skin affections, especially eczema 
and acne or to those suffering from affections of the urinary 
tract. 

Meat of young animals, less rich in stimulating nitrogenous 
extracts, and that of birds of the poultry yard (fowl, turkey, 
etc.) and in general meats called white meats, nevertheless 
are regarded as being more easily digested than the red meats. 
This appears to apply only to the flesh of poultry. The flesh 
of animals which are too young is not always without disad- 
vantages, especially that of a calf from two to three weeks 
old. 

This flesh leaves sensibly more ash than that of beef, and this 
ash is more acid by reason of phosphoric acid proceeding from 
the oxidation of the organic phosphorus of the nucleins and of 
other phosphorated bodies more abundant in the meats of 
young animals. I give here a percentage analysis according 

135 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



to Staffel/ deduction being made of the chloride of sodium : 


Bibasic phosphate of potash 


. 68-05 


„ „ .. soda 








5-66 


„ „ ., lime 








3-72 


„ „ „ magnesia 








6-24 


Free phosphoric acid 








15-10 


SiHcic acid .... 








0-20 


Ferric oxide .... 








0-30 


Waate 








. 0-73 



99-27 

The ash of beef contains 1 per cent, at least of oxide of iron. 

We have hitherto spoken especially of beef, veal and mutton. 
Pork, of which we give the composition (pp. 129 and 133), also 
enters in a large degree into alimentation. It is very popular 
in Germany. In France many families amongst the peasants 
eat only the salted or smoked meat of the pig, which they fatten 
each year by means of the residue of the farm. From the point 
of view of its composition, fresh pork does not dififer very sensi- 
bly from beef or veal, but the meat is more compact, especially 
fatter than these latter and appears to be more difficult for some 
stomachs to digest. Pork is both firm and savoury. It requires 
to be well cooked and slowly masticated which makes it as digest- 
ible as beef. With respect to the diet of those suffering from 
Bright's disease, we shall see that it possesses a remarkable 
quality, that of assimilating more easily, of fatiguing the kidney 
of the patient less and in the case of albuminuria, or of hepatic 
congestion, of allowing the minimum quantity of albumin to 
pass by the kidney. 

We shall close this chapter by giving some information on the 
meat of other mammals less generally eaten. 

Horse flesh is used to-day by people, especially in large towns. 
It is consumed chiefly on account of its low price. About 10,000 
horses, asses and mules are eaten annually in France. 

Horse flesh has an alimentary value equal to that of beef if 
the animal has been weU nourished, not over-driven and is not 
too old. Its flavour recalls at once that of beef and venison, 
with a slight sweetish taste due to its exceptional richness in 
glycogen and glucose, of which it contains, on an average, 0-5, and 
can give up to 4-5 per cent. 

Asses' flesh is excellent ; it resembles venison. Xenophon 
relates that the Grecian army was weU nourished by the flesh 
of the wild asses of Mesopotamia at the time of the retreat of 
the Ten Thousand. 

The flesh of the mule resembles somewhat in its consistence 
and aspect that of beef, but it has a musky taste. 

1 Analysis of the ash of veal quoted by J. Liebig, Letters on Chemistry, 
p. 213. 

136 



MEATS OF HORSE, ASS, ETC. 

flereare some analyses of these different meats, according to 
M. Balland (Annates d' Hygiene et de Med. leg. August 1902) : 



Water .... 
Nitrogenous matters 
Fatty matters . 
Extractive matters . 
Ash 



Horse — 
average. 



Horse — leg 



74-27 

21-71 

2-55 

0-46 

1-01 



7310 

21-95 

2-95 

1 44 

0-56 



Ass— fillet. 



76-50 

19 14 

1-60 

2-29 

0-47 



Mule— flUet. 



74-20 

20-18 

213 

2-38 

0-81 



Venison is too well known to need any recommendation. Its 
taste differs sensibly from that of the meat of domestic animals, 
as differs that of all beasts, wild or not, which have not been 
directly deprived of their blood by the bleeding of the animal.*^ 

Here are two analyses of venison due to von Bibra. 

As a comparison I give the composition of this venison accord- 
ing to Balland : — 











For 100 parts. 




Young Full-grown 
Roebuck. Roebuck. 


Kid (leg). 


Muscular fibres with 

and nerves 
Sohible albimiinoids 
Extractive matters 
Fatty matters . 
Water and waste . 
Ash 


ve 


3sel 


3 


16-81 

1-96 

4-75 

0-50 

75-98 


18-00) 

2-30 1 
2-80 

78-83 


18-45 

1-69 
1-78 

77 
1-08 









We see that this flesh (and generally that of all game) is poorer 
in fat than that of domestic animals, and also richer in extractive 
matters where creatin predominates. 

As the rabbit and hare also form part of our consumption, it 
will be interesting to know the composition of their meat. It is 
as foUows, according to M. Balland : — 





Rabbit— leg. 


Hare — leg. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters . 
Fatty matters .... 
Extractive matters 
Ash 


720 
235 
3-14 
0-47 
0-90 


61-20 

29-88 

334 

2-55 

303 




100 00 


10000 



1 It is very interesting to compare the taste of a chicken bled to death 
or shot. In the second case the blood remains in the vessels of the animal 

137 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The flesh of reindeer, which reaches the Parisian market fairly 
abundantly, holds a middle place between that of vem'sonand 
that of beef. 

Certain kinds of dogs are fattened by the Chinese for the 
shambles. According to Irving, dogs were kept for the 
same purpose by the Indians on the upper Missouri {Astoria, 
Paris 1886, p. 122). Lewis and Clarke, in their long exploration of 
this country (1804-1807), relate that they existed on dog's flesh 
for a long time. Nansen was obliged to eat his dogs in his 
famous expedition to the North Pole ; and all those who went 
through the Siege of Paris know that the meat of the street dogs 
proved to be sufiiciently nourishing and rendered good service. 
It is only necessary to throw away the entrails and fat of these 
animals, to pickle their flesh in vinegar and spices, and to cook 
it sufl&ciently before eating it. 

An examination will now be made of the forms under which 
the meat of mammals is consumed in general, and the result 
of the different preparations which it undergoes. 

This wfll be the subject of the next chapter. 

and gives to the flesh a gamey flavour and deep colour, which makes it 
resemble game. We also know the difference in the case of duck killed 
by suffocation or by decapitation. 



I3» 



XIII 

FORMS UNDER WHICH MEAT IS EATEN : RAW, ROAST, AND BOILED 
MEAT — BEEF-TEA — EXTRACTS OF MEAT 

BEFORE studying the meats with which birds, fish, reptiles, 
Crustacea, etc., provide man, we shall examine the modifica- 
tions and transformations which the flesh of the most customary 
mammifers undergoes by cooking, and the different practices of 
salting, smoking, drying, etc. A description will be given in this 
chapter of the preparations derived from these meats : beef -teas, 
extracts, powders, etc. 

Raw meat. — Raw meat forms an excellent aliment, although it 
appears very seldom on our tables in this form. Cooking, 
employed by man from time immemorial, has the eJffect, on the one 
hand, of giving to meat an aroma or perfume which excites the 
appetite and provokes the secretion of gastric juice, and, on the 
other, of destroying the spores, germs and various parasites which 
are able to exist on and in meats and render them unwholesome. 
But in spite of these advantages, cooking — whether by roasting 
or by the action of boiling — has also its disadvantages. 

Fick has shown that raw meat is digested three times as quickly 
as cooked or even underdone roast meat. 

Cooking modifies the coagulable parts of the muscular tissue and 
generally makes the proteid substances more difficult to assimi- 
late : thus dogs fed with raw bones, broken or pulverized, can bear 
this diet for some months without losing weight or appearing to 
suffer from it, whereas, if one tries to feed them with these same 
bones previously cooked, they die of starvation after fifty or sixty 
days. 

The second disadvantage of cooking is that it destroys the 
zymases or natural ferments of this valuable aHment and causes 
the disappearance of the specific activity of those ferments which 
are capable of renewing stomachic excitation and the vital powers 
of invalids who cannot be nourished on roast or even underdone 
meat. 

Raw meat is the food which agrees best with very delicate 
stomachs, with the tuberculous, tabetics, chlorotics and even with 
many children who are obliged to be weaned prematurely ; but it is 
necessary to know how to choose and use it methodically. 

It is necessary to pay attention to the meat of sheep or of horse, 
rather than that of the ox, which may contain the eggs of the 
botriocephalus. Pig's flesh should be altogether avoided, as it is 

139 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

too firm and may transmit various parasites, among others, the 
trichina and the cysticercus. 

Meat intended to be eaten raw should be deprived of all fat, 
scraped and reduced to pulp with the edge of a good knife and not 
chopped. By scraping are left aside the greater part of the 
aponeuroses, tendons, etc. With this, pulp balls about the size of 
a small nut should be made, either directly and without other 
addition, or after having salted the meat a Uttle, or having added to 
it a little cognac, rum, sugar or the gravy of cold roast meat. 
These balls of meat pulp ought to he swallowed by the invcdid, with- 
out being chewed, an important condition in the case of very 
delicate stomachs, which can receive, in this form, up to 15*3 
grms. of this food at a time, even when they have no appetite and 
are disgusted with everything and with meat in particular. 
Raw meat thus absorbed is easily digested. It possesses a 
specific activity, especially valuable in the case of consumptives, 
chlorotics, anaemics, weak children and many invaMds whose 
functions it revives. 

Juice of Fresh Meat — When fresh chopped meat undergoes 
heavy pressure (25 kgs.per square cm.) it produces from 33 to 
40 per cent, of a reddish serum, filtrable through tissue paper. If 
the meat has been previously frozen it is possible to obtain as 
much as 50 per cent, of this serum. This is the nourishment that 
M. Ch. Richet advises for consumptives. It has Httle taste, is of 
neutral reaction and is capable of rapid change. It is possible to 
drink one Htre and more of it per day, when quite fresh} Mineral 
acids coagulate this juice. It becomes thick without discolouring 
at a prolonged temperature of 46° {A. Gautier) and the coagulation 
continues thus up to a temperature of 78° and 80°. Albuminous 
materials can be precipitated abundantly without heat from 
this juice by means of sulphate of ammonia. 

The juice of fresh meat gives, for 1000 cc, 67 grms. of dry 
extract, of which 10-5 grms. are albuminoids ; 89 grms. mineral 
salts ; 47-70 grms. undetermined extractive matters. 

The ash, rich in potassium phosphate, contains also a httle 
phosphate of lime and magnesia as well as salt. 

Cooked Meats — Beef-tea. 

Meat is generally eaten cooked, roast or boiled. 

Roasted meats. — Meat roasted on the grill or spit is the most 
savoury. Heat quickly forms on the surface, by coagulation of 
the albuminoids and concentration of the juices which tend to 
force their way out, a sort of crust which protects the underlying 

* He calls this method zomotherapy. An adult should take, in order 
to obtain good effects, more than a htre per day of this sanguineous liquid. 
It should be kept on ice, especially in summer. I have tried it in the 
case of invalids in strong doses as indicated by MM. Richet and Hericourt, 
and I must say that it haw not given me any very good results. 

140 



ROAST MEATS 

parts, prevents a too rapid evaporation of water and permits of 
cooking the fibre so to speak in its own juice. The odoriferous and 
tasty materials concentrate themselves there without the meat 
becoming dried up or raised to too high a temperature. Muscular 
tissue cooked in the oven or stove, in an enclosure at a temperature 
rising from 200° or 250°, resembles in look and quahties meat 
roasted in the open air, if the oven is large. It resembles boiled 
beef, if the oven is small, because the space is rapidly saturated, in 
this latter case, by steam. 

The temperature of the deeper parts of the roasting meat varies 
as a rule from 75° to 85° in a fairly large piece ; it may rise from 
88° to 97° at the depth of a centimetre only beneath the surface. 
Meat is more sensibly altered by cooking in an oven than by 
roasting in the open air. In both cases, but especially in the latter, 
the collagenous matters are in part transformed into soluble gela- 
tine, which we again find with different tasteful products, either in 
the meat itself or in the juice which it furnishes. 

Grilled or roast meats contain, in the dry state, nearly the same 
quantities of nitrogen, albuminoids, fats and salts as the raw meats 
from which they come. But since, after cooking, the quantity of 
water falls to 62 and even 42 per cent., it follows that for equal 
weights, grilled or roast meats are much richer in nutritive 
principles than raw meats (Balland). 

Here is, relating to 100 parts of each, the comparative com- 
position of the same meat raw and roast and of roast mutton and 
pork, according to Balland : 





Kaw Beef. 


Roast Beef. 


Roast Leg of 
Mutton. 


Roast 

Shoulder of 

Pork. 


Water 

Albuminoid substances 

(rauscnlin, serin, col- 

lagens) 
Albumoses and peptones . 
Fatty matters .... 
Extractive matters 
Mineral salts .... 


74-5 
165 1 

2-5 . 
1-9-5 
15 
1-0 


69-9 

2295 

5-10 
1-04 
105 


64-10 

27-08 

5-38 
2-04 
1-40 


56-40 

3266 

8-55 
1-08 
131 



On an average, flesh loses by roasting, in the case of beef 19 per 
cent., veal 22 per cent., mutton 24 per cent, of its weight. 

When meat is cooked in boiling water, we obtain boiled meat 
and broth. These two alimentary preparations are very different 
according to the method of preparation. 

If we wish to obtain savoury boiled meat, it is necessary to 
sacrifice the broth. The meat is placed in a glazed earthen 
vessel, ^ of small capacity, with salt, vegetables and the minimum 

1 Iron vessels affect the taste of the meat and broth, 
141 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

amount of water which will soak it. This vessel is closed with 
paper tied with string or even with parchment, the cover is then 
put on, so as to seal it as hermetically as possible. The meat is 
then submitted to a temperature of about 80° to 85°. At the end 
of 10 or 12 hours, according to the nature of the muscular tissue, a 
delicate boiled beef is obtained, and a liquid, which, on cooling, 
forms a jelly very agreeable to the taste. 

Liebig, for this preparation, recommends plunging the meat into 
already boiling water, boiUng it for a few minutes and then keeping 
it for several hours afterwards at a temperature of 70° or 75°. 
This method is by no means as good as the preceding one. 

On the contrary, if one wishes (as is usually the case) to obtain 
at the same time boiled beef of sufficiently agreeable taste, and an 
adequate quantity of good beef-tea, the meat should be plunged 
raw into cold water which is gradually heated up to 100 ° and kept 
at this temperature without removing the scum and fat floating 
on the surface, renewing the water when necessary. By this 
method we obtain, after separation of the congealed parts or scum 
and of tlie fats by filtration through moistened linen, a good brotli 
containing all the tasteful principles of the meat. The latter, on 
the other hand, has partly lost its taste ; it has become a little 
less nutritive and less easily assimilated. 

To make tliis ordinary culinary preparation, which provides at 
the same time the boiled beef and broth of our households, 
Chevreul, in his researches on this subject, recommends taking, 
for a kilogramme of lean meat, 2,500 cc. of water, 18 grms. 
of salt and 110 grms. of vegetables (carrots, turnips, leeks, 
celery). 

Let us investigate that which becomes, in the course of this 
preparation, on the one hand boiled meat, on the other its aqueous 
extract, broth. 

Boiled Meat. — Muscular tissue yields to water about 75 per 
cent, of its weight of materials reckoned in a dry state. Three per 
cent, composed of soluble and coagulable albumins, remain in the 
scum (myoalbumin, haemoglobin) ; 47 to 5 per cent, dissolve and 
remain in the broth. By maceration in hot water, meat loses to 
a large extent, its soluble and coagulable albuminoids, its pre- 
existing peptones, a part of the collagenous materials which the 
water, when warm, transforms into gelose,its soluble pigments and 
its ferments. Water thus takes away from the meat its basic, 
extractive materials or leucomains (creatin, amphicreatin, cruso- 
creatin and analogous bases ; only 3 to 5 per cent, of them exist 
in the meat), its lecithins, inosit, glycogen, lactic and inosic acids, 
a little taurin, finally its soluble mineral salts and a part of its 
fat and water. 

One thousand grms. of fresh meat give about 450 grms. 
of boiled meat. The greater part of this loss in weight is due 

142 



MEAT BROTH 

to the dehydration of the meat which does not contain more than 
56 to 57 parts of water in place of 74 to 75.^ 

Here is the comparative composition of meat (beef), raw and 
boiled, according to Balland {C. Rend. t. CXXX, p. 532) : 





Fresh State for 100 parts. 


Dry State for 100 parts. 




Raw Beef. 


Boiled Beef. 


Raw Beef. 


BoUed Beef.2 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters 
Fatty matters 
Extractive and unknown 

matters 
Mineral salts 


74-50 

21-67 

137 

1 39 

1-07 


56-90 

35-28 

209 

4-83 

0-90 


000 

84-98 

5-36 

5-46 

4-20 


0-00 
81-86 

4-84 
1120 

2-10 



Thus the operation of boiling removes from the meat chiefly 
its sapid substances, its salts and water. 

It is surprising to see that the extractive matters are more than 
doubled in boiled meat : but, on the one hand, the water by 
disappearing has concentrated them in the residue ; on the other, 
some collagenous substances have been made soluble. Volfhiigel 
found that the temperature in the middle of a piece of boiled beef 
weighing 3kgs. after boiling 2| hours, was 91° to 92° ; and 97° 
to 97 '5° at the depth of 2 centimetres from the surface. This 
proves that boiled meat is more affected by heat than roast meat. 

Deeivatives of Meat. 

Broth — Extract of Meat. — As has been said previously, 1 kg. 
of moderately fat beef, without bone, or 1-300 kg. with 
bone, gives, under conditions we have made known, 2| litres of 
good broth, leaving 18 to 23 grms. of dry extract per litre and 
containing per 1,000 cc. : 



Albuminoid matters 


. 7-50 


Creatinic bases 


. 0-9- 


Xanthin and xanthic bases 


. 0-25 


Inosic acid .... 


. 0-04 


Taiu-in, etc. .... 


. 0-12 


Inosit, glycogen 


. 1-40 


Lactic acid .... 


. 0-20 


Colouring, odorizing, etc., matters 


. 4-60 


Soluble mineral salts 


. 3-76 


Insoluble mineral salts 


. 0-38 




19-15 grms 



grms. 



1-31 



"}414 



^ According to the observations of Goubaux, lean boned meat loses in 
the pot, by boiling with water, from 11-6 to 29-6 per cent, of its weight. 
2 Analysed on taking it out of the saucepan. 

M3 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The presence of vegetables or salt in the cooking water does not 
sensibly modify the weight of materials derived from the meat. 
A test made with 1 kg. of lean beef and 2^ kgs. of water 
without salt or vegetables, gave me a broth leaving 19 grms. 
of dry residue per litre, which corresponds per kg. of meat 
to 475 grms. of extract. A comparative experiment made 
with the same quantity of meat and water, but adding 7 grms. of 
salt per litre, 45 grms. of carrots, 40 grms. of turnips, 25 grms. 
of leeks and celery, gave me a broth leaving 27 3 grms. of dry resi- 
due and 203 grms. if one subtracted the added salt. The difference 
of rSgrms. on the extract obtained without salt or vegetables seems 
to be due to soluble substances brought by the vegetable matters. 

Here are, according to P. Coulier, the relative weights of meat, 
bone, vegetables, salt, and the yield of boiled beef and broth for 
100 litres of water put in the saucepan : 



Production and Yield of Meat in Boiled Beef and Broth. 





Heat 
with 
bones.! 


Vegetables. 


Salt. 


Yield. 




Boiled 
Beef. 

16 360 kg 


Vegetables. 


Civil hospitals of Paris 
Formula of Chevreul ^ 
Military hospitals 
Duval broths . 
Marine hospitals ^ 


41 6 kg. 
37-27 „ 
36-36 „ 
35 „ 
25 „ 


8-600 kg. 
6-620 „ 

6 
10 


1-120 kg. 
0-808 „ 

0-750 „ 
0-248 „ 


6 960 kg. 



According to Liebig, 100 parts of mineral matters contained in 
the raw meat are distributed thus in the meat and broth : 





Raw Meat. 


Boiled Meat. 


Broth. 


K20 

CaO;MgO;FeO . . . 

KCl 

P205 

S03 


40-20 

5-69 

14-81 

3660 

295 


4-78 
2-54 

1036 


3542 

315 

14-81 

26-24 

295 




100 00 


17-68 


82-57 



1 We know that in the raw flesh of animals it is necessary to reckon 
the bones as a quarter or a fifth. 

2 Yield in broth 80 litres. The liquid is then concentrated a fifth during 
cooking. 

3 Yield in broth 75 litres. We shall notice that in the preparation of 
boiled meat and broth according to Chevreul's formula, 28-67 kgs. 
of fresh meat without bones, produce only 16-360 kgs. of boiled meat. 

144 



MEAT BROTH 

The mineral salts of broth have the following composition, 
calculated per litre of non-salted broth : 

Chloride of potassium . . . . . . , 0*72 

Do sodium . . . . . . , 0-15 

Sulphate of potash . . . . . . , 0'36 

Phosphate of potash (PO^K^H) 2-60 

Do. lime (PO^CaH) 0-12 

Do. magnesia (PO*MgH) .... 0-23 

Do. iron (PO^FeH) . . . . . 0-02 

The albuminoid matters of broth are of two kinds : 1st, gelatin 
or gelose, result of the action of hot water on the ossein of the 
connective tissue and sarcolemma. Its quantity generally 
increases in proportion as the cooking is prolonged, but a part is 
peptonized at the same time. 2nd, the albumins and peptons due 
to a partial peptonization of the meat produced during the life and 
after the death of the animal, peptonization which the water, aided 
by the salts and heat, continues. 

As we have just said, if we admit that the albuminoid matters of 
broth have the same composition as those found in Liebig's Extract 
of Meat (which after all is only broth concentrated in vacuo) 
we find that 75 grms. of albuminoids in a litre of broth are com- 
posed in the following manner : 

Gelose ........ 1'72 grms. 

Albumoses . . . . . . . 0-48 ,, 

Peptons 5-30 „ 

It is often said (and this is one of the reasons which has made 
broth fall into disfavour) that this preparation is not alimentary. 
In reality, broth contains per litre 7*5 grms. of assimilable 
albuminous matters, which correspond to about 40 grms. of fresh 
meat. Broth is plastic also by reason of its phosphates, potassium 
salts and lecithins. But it especially plays the part of an exciting 
agent in alimentation ; it is a nervine aliment (p. 264) through its 
gustative, odorous and sapid matters, which form about a quarter 
of its extract, by its leucomaines, creatinic and xanthic, tonic and 
bitter bases, which, in these small doses, when they are introduced 
into the stomach through the mouth (and not injected under the skin), 
have physiological effects comparable to those of the caffein and 
thein which we shall find again in tea, coffee and cocoa {Lehmann ; 
Robert). Like caffein and in the manner of salts of potassium 
themselves which accompany them, the bases of broth tone up the 
heart and accelerate the digestion and circulation. However, we 
must not forget that these bases are all poisonous in rather large 
doses. A guinea-pig of 410 grms. received in subcutaneous injec- 
tions, several consecutive days, from 5 to 12 milligrms. of sarcin ; it 
grew thin, passed deep yellow urine, slightly albuminous, and died 
at the end of 50 days. A guinea-pig weighing 408 grms. received 
100 milligrms. of creatin in subcutaneous injections, its urine 
became deep brown and slightly albuminous. The motionless 

145 L, 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

animal cried at the least touch, soon complete anuria set in with 
evident prostration, and death rapidly supervened. On autopsy, 
an epithelial nephritis was discovered (Gaucher). 

But unless we misuse broth and these consommes or concen- 
trated bro'ths, with which we formerly stuffed the sick and con- 
valescent, . in the small quantities in which they exist in these 
cuhnary preparations, the odorous or tasty bases and matters 
of the meat act only as tonics and excitants of the circulation 
and digestion. They are found again almost unaltered in the 
urine. 

As for the nutritive action of broth, it is very much reduced, 
although actual, by reason of the small proportion of albuminoids 
and phosphorated extractive which it contains. Assuredly 
more than half the proteid bodies of broth are formed of gelatin, 
or of a very analogous material, and since the observations of 
Donne and the experiments of Magendie, the nutritive qualities 
of these latter substances have been subject to doubt. But 
if it is true that a dog fed with the gelatin of bone mixed with a 
little bread and meat, grew thin and succumbed at the end of 
sixty to eighty days, a similar animal to that which perished with 
the bread sop and gelatin of bone, regains its fatness and vital 
forces, if this gelatin is replaced by meat broth. * 

The result of my experiments is also^ that young animals 
(guinea-pigs and dogs) can assimilate the gelatinous and collagen- 
ous matters that are given them in place of ordinary albuminoids, 
and continue thus to nourish themselves and prosper for some 
months, provided that the quantities of gelatin which they con- 
sume do not reach the fourth part of the total albuminoids whicli 
the rest of their aHments furnish to them. It has already been 
shown that gelatin plays a protective role to the other nutritive 
albuminoids.^ 

Daily facts show that broth is a valuable adjuvant to alimenta- 
tion. It momentarily and rapidly relieves the forces without 
the stomach having more to do than merely absorb it, and without 
there being any necessity for the action of the gastric juices, so 
often insufficient in the case of invalids. It excites the appetite 
and digestion, augments the gastric secretions, strengthens the 

* See Compte rendu, t. XIII and XVII of the works of the Commission 
relating to Gelatin (1841 and 1844). 

2 " Influence of Different Preparations Derived from Meat on the Growth 
and Health of Animals " (Bull. acad. Med. 3rd series, t. XLTII, p. 259, March 
1900). 

3 It even prevents the fats from being wasted, but it could not suffice, by 
itself, to replace the other albuminoids of meat whatever may be the 
quantity given of it. If it alone is consumed, it is not sufficient, even 
accompanied by fats and starchy matters ; in this case, the consumption 
of nitrogen is always greater than that which results from the gelatin 
introduced (C. Voit). , 

146 



EXTRACTS OF MEAT 

heart, and slightly increases the pulse ; raises arterial tension 
a little and helps the work of the kidneys. 

Broth can be taken at any time, during and between meals, 
hot or cold. It is easily digested. 

We shall notice, however, that the extractive organic matters 
of broth belong, in a great part, to the creatinic and puric series, 
and that the use of this aliment sensibly increases the excretion 
of uric acid and similar bodies. It is, therefore, not to be recom- 
mended to arthritic, gouty and rheumatic people, or those suffer- 
ing from heart disease, etc. 

In various countries, for children and convalescents, a specially 
concentrated broth is made by cutting up beef, veal or mutton 
— from which the fat has been removed — into small dice, about 
1 centimetre across, which are put into a large necked bottle with- 
out the addition of anything. It is sufficient, after having well 
corked the bottle, to heat it for twenty to thirty minutes in a 
pan of boiling water. Five hundred grms. of meat thus rapidly 
furnish 150 to 160 cc. of a tasty, very concentrated and slightly 
acid broth, containing 70 grms. per litre of fixed substances, 
of which 50 are organic matters (gelatin, albumins, peptons, 
lecithins, creatin, etc.). This is bottled beef-tea. It stimulates 
the heart and nervous system. It is sufficiently nourishing and 
should be taken in spoonfuls, in small doses at a time. 

Extracts of Meat. — These extracts are made principally in South 
America from the meat of oxen killed in large quantities, almost 
solely (formerly at least) for their skins and fats. These meats 
give, when boiled with water, a broth which, concentrated in 
vacuo up to a pasty consistency, constitutes extract of meat. 
These extracts must therefore have the composition and most of 
the qualities and defects of broth itself. 

Among these preparations the best known is Liebig's Extract, 
manufactured according to the formula of the celebrated chemist, 
from the meat of American oxen. It has been in great part 
deprived of its gelatinous and fatty matters during its prepara- 
tion and concentration in vacuo. 

Thirty kgs. of lean ox- meat furnish about 1 kg. of this 
preparation. 

It is to-day met with everywhere and renders good service. 
Easy to keep and transport, it enables us to instantly obtain a 
feebly nutritive liquid, exciting and agreeable to the taste, which, 
boiled with vegetables and spices, can easily replace the broth of 
ordinary meat. 

During my researches on alimentation, on muscular leucomains 
and the physiological action of alkaloid and saline STibstances of 
meat,^ I have had occasion to study and analyse with care this 
extract of meat. 

* Works quoted earlier. 

147 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



I give here its percentage composition which I compare with 
that of an analogous preparation : 



Water 

Albumin coagulable by heat 

Gelose 

Propeptons and albumoses 

True peptons 

Casein (precipitable by C^H^O^) , . . . 

Creatin 

Creatinin 

Camin 

Xanthin, sarcin 

Indeterminate insoluble matters . . . . 

Inosit and glycogen 

Lactate and inosate of potash . . . . 
Sapid, colom-ing and odoriferous matters 

lecithins or their derivatives soluble ir 

alcohol at 98° centesimal 

Soluble mineral salts 

Insoluble „ „ 



Liebig's Extract* Cibils* Extract 
(A. Gautier). " (G. Pouchet). 



15-26 
0-05 
8-49 
2-32 

I 12-26-00 



8-30 

} 0-89 
2-20-4-25 

11-98 



21-26 
1-13 



9-904 
1-012 

8-0881 

G-105 

0-658 
1-68 
1-92 
2-724 

11-598 

10-184 
23-105 



I 31-48 



The mineral salts, soluble and insoluble, of these extracts are 
those of brotli itself. A hundred grms. contain, according 
to M. G. Pouchet, the following salts : 



Lactate and inosate of potash 

Sulphate of potash 

Phosphate of potash (PO^KSH) 

soda (PO^NaH) 
Chloride of sodium .... 
Phosphate of magnesia (PO^MgH) 

calcium (PO<CaH) 
Alumina and oxide of iron 
Silica and insoluble residue in the acids 



Total ash 

Total nitrogen . 

Ammoniacal nitrogen 



For 100 parts of extract. 



Liebig. 



15-451 
0-982 
7-352 
6-924 
1-946 
2-088 
0-088 
0-042 
0-038 



25141 

9-57 
0-806 



Cibils. 

23105 
0-998 
2-686 
8-746 
8-887 
1040 
0-208 
0-397 
0-061 



31-481 
9-43 
0-506 



Thus, mineral salts in which lactate and phosphate of potassium 
predominate, constitute about a quarter of these preparations. 
This observation will deter us from the idea of making these 
extracts serve for direct alimentation. They should only be 

1 Syntonin mixed with a very feeble quantity of gelatin. 
148 



EXTRACTS OF MEAT 

considered, just like broth itself, as useful excitants, digestive 
and nervous adjuvants, particularly of the heart and circulation. 
But when we have tried to nourish animals on them, the results 
have been deplorable, more especially when these extracts 
entered to a large extent into the daily ration. Thus, P. Muller 
[Theses of Paris, 1871, No. 77) has observed that when he added 
to his daily ahmentation 30 grms.of meat extract, he was seized 
with diarrhoea. A dog weighing 65 kgs. nourished with 
200 grms. of bread, 200 grms. of water, 20 grms. of fat and 
20 grms. of Liebig's extract per twenty-four hours, had diarrhoea 
on the sixth day of this diet, and died from collapse on the ninth. 
But these experiments, in which the extract of meat was experi- 
mentally administered in excessive doses, which are never reached 
in ordinary ahmentation, should not invahdate the utiHty of 
these preparations, when they are given in moderate doses, as is 
customary. I have made a number of experiments with these 
extracts, with the result that, provided they are given in a quan- 
tity not exceeding one tweKth of the weight of the total albumin- 
oids of ordinary aliments,^ and on condition that they do not 
add to the daily alimentary portion more than 2 grms. of addi- 
tional potash, they are more favourable than detrimental to the 
growth of animals. 

Other original preparations of meat exist and we can compare 
them with the preceding. It has been seen that these extracts 
contain in reality, in the soluble and nutritious state, only a very 
feeble proportion of albuminoids, gelatins and peptons. Already, 
Liebig had advised, in order to dissolve the musculin of meat, to 
have recourse to the action of hydrochloric acid diluted to a 
thousandth part with water. Five hundred grms. of lean meat 
are chopped up and added to 400 grms. of water, 4 drops of liquid 
hydrochloric acid and 15 grms. of salt. It is mixed cold, allowed 
to rest for some minutes, then thrown on a sieve and the pulp 
washed with 180 grms. of fresh water. Thus there is obtained a 
reddish liquid, rich in syntonin, much more nutritive than the 
corresponding broth, but difficult to make invalids take. It is 
putrescible and one cannot warm it without coagulating it. We 
have then tried to perfect Liebig's method. One of the prepara- 
tions which is derived from it, a preparation at the same time easy 
to preserve, and with a rather agreeable taste of concentrated 
broth, and one which, taking into consideration these qualities, 
I have tried to experiment on animals with, is the pepton of 
meat, obtained by the method of Professor Kemmerich. It is a 
pasty substance and appears to me to result from the action of 
superheated water on beef. The analyses which I made on it in 
1896, with regard to its composition, have led me to the following 
results : 

1 Btdl. Acad. Med., IdOO, loc. cit. 
149 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Total Assimilable 
Albuminoids. 

Water 27-83 

Gelose 10-88] 

Propeptons and albumosos 9-70 J- 45-18% 

Albuminoids coagulable by heat .... 25"10j 
Extractive matters soluble in alcohol at 98% 

(lecithins and phosphorous derivatives ; 

lactic and inosic acid ; odorant, sapid, 

colouring matters, etc.) 9-20 

Creatinic and xanthic bases '7-30 

Glycogen, inosit 1-50 

Soluble mineral matters 7-44) ^.lo 

Insoluble „ „ 1-68/ 

100-00 

The mineral matters corresponding to 100 parts of tliis peptone 
weigh tlien about 9 grms. and contain two-thirds of their weight 
of potassium phosphite with 1-5 grms. of salt. 

I have tried to nourish young animals with this preparation. 
My observations agree with those made by Pfeiffer. Provided 
that the proteid matters borrowed from this source do not exceed 
the fifth part of the quantity of albuminoids in the total ration, 
the animals prosper better than those receiving the small doses 
of ordinary alimentary albuminoids. 

The solution of meat of Leube and Rosenthal, well known in 
Germany, is prepared in the following manner : To 1,000 grms. 
of lean meat, and without bone, we add a litre of water and 20 cc. 
of officinal hydrochloric acid ; this mixture is placed in a closed 
vessel of glass and heated forty-five hours in a digester at 100°. 
Then the solid parts are separated and pulverized in a mortar ; 
the liquid part is then re-added and the whole again heated for 
twelve hours. The liquid is then neutralized by carbonate of 
soda and finally is evaporated to a thick consistency on plates. 
Thus a sort of meat soup is obtained which can be mixed with 
broth or taken in spoonfuls. This preparation contains from 2 
to 5 per cent, of peptons and 9 to 11 per cent, of albumins 
and soluble gelatins. 

Other analogous industrial preparations are thus made, mix- 
tures of fresh meat juice, partly burnt sugar and a little good 
wine or even cognac. 

The essences and juices of meat prepared in England, Germany 
and America {Fluid meat, Meat juice, Succus carnis, Fluid beef. 
Liquid food, etc.) are brands well known to the medical profession. 

These preparations, in general, rather agreeable to the taste, 
contain from 2 to 10 per cent, of soluble albuminoids together 
with the other components of meat extract. They are often 
supplemented by a little brandy, and are only essentially 
distinguished by their high prices. 

The true 'peptons of meat are prepared by artificial digestion 

150 



MEAT DERIVATIVES 

of muscular tissue, either in liquid slightly hydrochloric, tartaric 
or citric (one to four thousandth parts) by means of pepsin or 
papain {pepsic peptons) ; or in water feebly alkalized by carbon- 
ate of soda in contact with pig's sweetbread well washed and 
cut up after the addition of volatile antiseptics {trypsic peptons). 
The products of these different digestions are then rapidly filtered 
through a straining bag, afterwards evaporated in vacuo, either 
to a dry state or to the consistence of a thick syrup. Very 
often a little alcohol is added to these preparations as a pre- 
servative. 

Well made peptons (the good French brands are excellent) 
ought to have only a feeble odour of strong glue and a neutral or 
slightly bitter taste. The bitterness, so common in these pre- 
parations, indicates the presence of more or less dangerous allca- 
loids. Those which are obtained with papain or pane reatin con- 
tain also fairly considerable quantities of leucin and tyrosin ; 
their alcoholic extract reddens diluted perchloride of iron. We 
cannot recommend the preparations which are advertised as 
particularly formed of propeptons, preparations often made with 
butcher's waste, the ossein of bone, etc., and which in doses of 15 to 
20 grms. cause diarrhoea and fatigue, or nauseate the patient. 

Besides, the works of Zxintz and PoUitzer have shown that 
albumoses and pure peptons nourish, for equal weight, like the 
albumins from which they come; the propeptons do not appear 
by themselves to have any advantage.^ 

Deitters, confirming the experiments of Voit and Maly, estab- 
lishes that, in the case of patients put into a state of nitrogenous 
equilibrium, up to 69 per cent, of the usual albuminoids borrowed 
from meat, can be replaced by their weight of good peptons with- 
out upsetting the nitrogenous equilibrium.^ 

It is not possible to give a better proof that true peptons 
are really assimilated. 

1 Pfliiger's Arch. Bd. XXXVII, p. 301. 

2 Beitrdge zur Lehre vom Stoffwechsel, Berlin, 1892. 



151 



XIV 

MEATS PRESERVED BY COOKING, DESSICATION, SALTING, SMOKING 
OR FREEZING. 

POISONOUS OR DISEASED MEATS. 

MEAT being pre-eminently the most stimulating nourish- 
ment, the invigorating food of the working class and 
of the rich, it has from all time been preserved, either to be con- 
sumed at favourable moments or for exporting it from countries 
which produce it in excess to those which have not enough. 

The preservation of meat is obtained by dififerent methods ; 
the principal being : cooking, dessication, salting, smoking, 
antisepsis, refrigeration and congelation or frigorification. 

We will not enlarge on other methods but will confine ourselves 
only to show their results when necessary. 

Meats Preserved by Cooking. The cooking of preserved meats 
is done in closed vessels, generally in tin-plated utensils from 250 
to 500 cc. in capacity. It can be carried out in two ways : — (a) The 
meat is introduced raw into the utensil which is filled with con- 
centrated beef tea. The metal cover is immediately soldered on 
and the temperature in the stewpan kept at 1 10° for a longer or 
shorter time according to the size of the receivers. It is then 
allowed to partially cool, the tins are taken from the stewpan 
and a hole is immediately pierced in the cover of each of tliese, 
whence the warm air and gas escape. It only remains to close 
this little orifice immediately by a drop of solder, then to finish 
the cooking. (6) The meat is put into tins after having been 
whitened by boiling, that is to say boiled some moments with 
water which carries off, under the form of coagulated scum, a 
part of its soluble albuminoids and fats. The broth thus obtained, 
filtered and concentrated, serves to fill the space left in the tin 
by the meat already boiled which has been put into it. The 
cover is then soldered externally and the meat submitted to a 
temperature of 115° or 120°, a temperature which should be 
maintained for a time proportional to the size of the jar, in order 
that the heat can penetrate the entire depth of the mass and 
destroy all the germs and hurtful ferments. 

BiUancourt's works manufacture in this way, for the needs of 

152 



PRESERVED MEATS 



the army, preserved meats which have been heated for 2 1 hours 
at 120°. When examined three years after, they were found in a 
perfect state of preservation, having the real odour of meat cooked 
in its gravy. Except for the consistence of its fibre which has 
diminished, these preserved meats have all the qualities of ordinary 
meat cooked in water and all its nutritive value (Vaillard). 

It is necessary only to be careful that at the time of filling the 
tins, the meat is fresh and not damaged. In this case, indeed, 
where there has been any fermentation before cooking, the toxins 
already formed cannot be made to disappear, and although steril- 
ized, the food will remain dangerous. 

Here are a few analyses of these preserved meats : 



Preserved j Meat | 
Meat ! Powder 
(Chicago). ' (English). 



Water .... 

Nitrogenous matter 

Fats .... 

Extractives 

Ash .... 



Meat preserved for the 

Army (analysis of an 

entire tin). 


Preserved 

Beef 
(Austrian). 


Paris 

Billancourt 

1899. 


Toulouse, 
1897. 


63-06 

26-16 

8-64 

0-84 

1-30 


58-94 

22- 14 

16-61 

1-28 

1-03 


66-20 

20-03 

12-42 

0-37 

0-98 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 



61-35 

26-33 

9-09 

2-37 

0-86 

100-00 



10-90 

66-03 

3-25 

7-52 

12-30 

100-00 



A kilogramme of preserved meat, including juice, corresponds 
to 1,500 grms. of boned fresh meat. 

1,000 grms. of preserved meat generally contains 750 to 800 
grms. of meat, 170 to 190 grms. of jellified broth and 30 to 70 grms. 
of melted fat. 

Under favourable conditions, preserved meat ought to be kept 
intact for five to ten years. 

Every tin which smells the least bad from the outside, ought 
to be thrown away. The broth put in the tin should be very 
concentrated, otherwise it will liquefy and become turbid and give 
the food an unappetizing appearance. 

The analysis of the tin of the boxes of preserved meats has 
shown that it sometimes contains a little lead ; it is the same and 
a fortiori, with the solderings where 30 to 35 per cent, of the 
latter metal may be found. The soldering ought then to be done 
externally and should never at any point come in contact with 
the contents of the box, otherwise a little of the poisonous metal 
might be introduced into the food. It is necessary to insist that 
the tinning of the boxes should be very white and quite bright. It 
is in this case free from lead. 

Dessication. — Dessication is a method of preserving meat which 
has been practised for a long time in warm countries. The came 

153 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

aecca or tosajo of the South Americans, the kdea or dried meat 
of the Berbers of the Sahara, are obtained by cutting up the meat 
into fine thongs and exposing it to tlie air and sun. The anti- 
septic action of sunHght is well known ; the meat dries without 
putrefying. It is the same with the flesh of fish : the maritime 
populations of the North of Europe readily enough eat the flesh 
of raw fish, slightly salted, put to dry on the yards of the fishing 
boats. 

Well dried meat pulverizes easily. Powdered meats introduced 
into medicine for the nourishment of invaUds, especially by 
M. Debove, are of great service when, suitably prepared, they have 
not undergone any commencing putrid deterioration or rancidity 
of their fats. Unfortunately it is not always so. Good meat 
powders ought to smell only of glue and roast meat. Those wliich 
leave a bad or doubtful odour should be rejected. 

We can ourselves make meat powder at home : scrape to a 
pulp with a knife some lean meat ; dry it in a water-bath on a 
large metal dish shghtly inclined, in order to separate the fat which 
melts, and then pulverize in a mortar the well dessicated matter. 
In this state it can be added to different broths and paps, milks 
etc. It is also possible, as M. Debove does, to force the powder 
down, diluted with a little Vals or Vichy water. 

According to J. Koenig the average percentage composition 
of powdered beef is the following : ivater, 10-99 ; albuminoids, 
69-50 ; fats, 5-84 ; non-nitrogenoits organic substances 0-42 ; 
mineral matters, 13-25. 

The pemmican of the North Americans and travellers in the 
Polar countries is powdered meat saturated with fat and mixed 
with salt, pepper and sugar. It is the food which possesses the 
maximum of nutritive powder in the least bulk. It offers very 
great advantages to sailors, explorers, hunters, etc., especially in 
very cold countries. 

Salted Meats. — ^The practice of salting consists in covering the 
fresh meat, previously cut into quarters, with a strong layer of 
salt generally mixed with 2 to 3 per cent, of nitre,^ a harmless 
substance in these weak doses, and which has the property of 
preserving in the meat its fine red colour. The muscular fibre 
toughens while absorbing a part of these salts, and in excreting 
about a third of its weight of constitutive water which carries away 
with it a small quantity of albuminoid and extractive matters. 

At the end of 10 or 15 days, the meat is drawn out from the 
partly liquefied brine, then placed in casks in beds separated 
by layers of fresh salts, often with the addition of spices (laurel, 
juniper, pepper, etc.). 

Here are some comparative analyses brought to 100 parts of 

* Sometimes replaced by sugar. 

154 



SMOKED MEATS 

beef and pork — afresh or salted. The two first are by Gerardin, 
the two following by Mene, the two last by M. Balland. 



Comparative 


Analysis of Fkesh and Salted Meat. 








Salt 




Salt 


Salt 


The 




Beef 


Beef 


Fresh 


Pork 


Bacon 


same 




fresh. 


(from the 


Pork. 


(from 


raw. 


after 






caak). 




cask). 


whole.cut. 


cooking. 


Water 


75.90 


49-11 


69 


62-58 


32-40 


28-80 


Musculin, cellular tissue 


} 15-70 


24-82 


7-11 


11-21 


1 




Collagenous material . 


10-75 


2-53 


[14-41 


19-01 


Albumin .... 


2-25 


0-70 


3-80 


8-58 


) 




Fats 


1-01 


0-18 


8-28 


8-68 


40-29 


48-22 


Extractives 


2-06 


3-28 


— 


— 


0-22 


0-18 


Soluble salts . 
Losses 


2-95 
0-13 


21-07 
0-84 


114 


6-41 


} 12-68 


3-79 


Phosphoric acid P205 


0-222 


0-618 











— 


Total nitrogen 


3 


4-620 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Salt 


0-409 


11-516 


— 


— 


— 


— 



These analyses prove that salted meat, richer in assimilable 
parts and poorer in water than the non-salted, contains almost 
the whole total of the nutritive materials of fresh meat. Never- 
theless, a part of its elements is passed into the brine, particularly 
a little albumin and some extractive matters. For 100 dry parts, 
natural beef contains 8-55, salt beef 6-44 only of these latter. 
This observation is interesting from the point of view of the 
alimentation of different invalids. 

1,000 parts of fresh beef yield to the brine, according toErwin 
and Voit : 

Water ........ 79-7 grms. 

Coagulable albumin . . . . . . 2-4 „ 

Extractives . . . . . . . 2-6 „ 

Phosphoric acid, especially in the form of phosphate 

of potash ....... 0-4 „ 

and absorb 42 grms. of salt. There passes then into the brine, 
where the meat lies, the tenth of its soluble albuminoid matters 
and more than a quarter of its extractives. Finally, the salting 
carries off from the meat scarcely 3 grms. of proteid matters per 
kilogramme of meat. 

Smoking. — Very often meat is smoked and salted at the same 
time. Smoking or smoke drying has been employed from all time 
by hunters and trappers as well as in the households of workmen 
and bourgeois, especially in wooded countries. In America, the 
first pioneers preserved their game by exposing it, in quarters, 
to the smoke of their camp fires. But the art of smoking has 
been particularly brought to perfection at Hamburg. The beef 
and smoked hams which come from there are remarkably pre- 
pared. These meats, after having been slightly salted, are 

155 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

exposed for some weeks in special chambers to the cooled smoke 
of hearths where slow burning fires have been made of chips and 
dried branches of oak, fir, pine, birch and juniper. They are 
thus slowly charged with creosote, different pyrogenous essences 
and pyroligneous acid, brought by the smoke. They dry a little, 
become imputrescible, always preserving a part of their red colour 
and elasticity, and acquire an agreeable savour, whilst keeping 
all their nutritive value. 

Here are some comparative analyses borrowed from Mene and 
Koenig (3rd analysis) of fresh and smoked hams : 



i 

Fresh Ham. 


Ham 

smoked and 
salted.i 


Smoked Ham 

lightly salted. 

average. 


Water 69-6 

Musculin and insoluble albuminoid 7'1 1 

materials [on.q^ 
Soluble albuminoid materials 2 . i 3-8 '^^ *" 
Collagenous and waste materials . ' 10-07 j 

Fatty materials 8-28 

Non-nitrogenous materials ... — 
Mineral salts 1-14 


59-72 
1261 1 

9-16 [25-07 

3-30J 
8-11 

7-08 


28-11 

24-74 

36-45 

0-16 

10-54 



It is seen that owing to the dessication undergone by the salted 
and smoked meats, the albuminoid matters have increased from 
about 6 per cent, in proportion to the fresh meats. The 
assimilability of these substances and their digestibility by the 
stomach does not appear to be sensibly modified, an important 
statement which we shall make use of later on for the prepara- 
tion of regimes. 

Lorraine, and especially Holland and Germany, manufacture 
sausages, black puddings, sausages called " aux pois " sausages 
with chopped pork or other meats, sometimes with giblets and 
waste of meat, to which vegetable or cereal meals are often added. 
These preparations are generally salted, smoked and very spiced. 
Naturally their composition and nutritive value are very variable. 

The following are a few of the best known analyses taken 
from Koenig : 



i ^ 


Pork 


Frankfort 


Westphalia 


"Auxiwis" 




Sausage. 


Sausage. 


Sausage. 


Sausage. 


Albumins . 


27-3 


11-7 


22-8 


16-0 


Fats . . . 


39-9 


39-G 


11-4 


39-5 


Carbo-hydrates 


51 


2-3 


1 — 


29-4 


Ash ... 


7-0 


3-7 


r7-2 


9-2 


Water . . . 


20-8 


42-8 


58-6 


6-0 



1 Remarkably lean hams, or analyses of the very lean parts of ham. 
^ Soluble in water with the addition of ^ooo hydrochloric acid. 

156 



CONGEALED MEATS 

Antiseptic Treatment. — The preservation of meat by anti- 
septics other than smoke, does not yet seem to have given quite 
satisfactory results. 

Creosote and carbonic acid communicate a special taste to 
meats recalling that of smoked meats, but more insipid and 
especially more disagreeable to many persons. 

The use of salicylic acid has been forbidden in France (Circular 
of the Minister of Agriculture and Commerce, February 7, 1881) 
because this agent is not tolerated by all stomachs, nor always 
easily excreted by the kidneys : in doses where it is advantage- 
ously employed to preserve meat, some accidents have occurred. 

Borax in solution has been rejected for the same reason and 
also because it sometimes contains lead. A trial has been made 
to powder meat, by means of beUows, with a mixture called 
preservation salt composed of 100 parts borax and 0-25 parts 
of salt. 

Formol possesses a very powerful antiseptic action, but its 
combination, even in a very feeble proportion, with the albumin- 
oids, renders these latter indigestible or very 'difficult to digest. 

An attempt has been made to preserve meat in an atmosphere 
of sulphurous acid, or to render it imputrescible by the addition 
of alkaline bisulphates. These bisulphates alter its fibre. The 
composition of meat thus treated is sensibly modified by contact 
with an antiseptic (A. Riche ; Masson, publisher, 1897). 

In England, Scollay and afterwards Gamgee have proposed to 
inject into the veins of the animal carbon monoxide immediately 
after its death, or to asphyxiate it by this gas. In the latter case, 
the cut up meat is afterwards left for eight days in contact with 
this same carbon monoxide which has been mixed with sulphuric 
acid. Cooking afterwards removes these antiseptic gases from 
the meat which has now become imputrescible. 

The only practical means up to the present of preserving meats 
by antisepsis consists of salting them, exposing them to smoke 
or to very strong spices. 

Refrigeration and Congelation. — The last process and the best 
to preserve meat is the action of cold. Different from the pre- 
ceding preserved meats, wliich always end by producing satiety 
or of wliich the savour is modified by salting or smoking, spices, 
etc., refrigerated or congealed meo.ts keep almost in the state in 
which they were at the moment when the animal was killed. 
They may entirely replace ordinary meat. 

The preservation of meat by cold has been in use for a long time, 
but it is necessary to distinguish between meat simply refrigerated 
and frozen meat. 

In refrigeration meats are preserved in a cool chamber towards 
0° C. They can only be kept thus with advantage during one 
or two months at the most. 

157 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

In an interesting report made to the Academy of Science on 
the methods of TelUer for the preservation of meat by refrigeration, 
Bouley, in 1874, wrote ^ : "It is not necessary that the cold 
chamber where the meat is preserved be rigorously maintained 
at 0° C. Experience has proved that the temperature may oscillate 
between + 3° and — 2° C. The large pieces can remain quite 
as much imputrescent in the freezing chamber as the medium or 
little pieces. . . . The duration of the preservation of organic 
matter in the cold chamber can be considered as indefinite from 
the point of view of putrescibility, but it is not quite the same from 
the comestible point of view. In proportion as the time of pre- 
servation is prolonged, the tenderness of the meat is increased 
gradually and, towards the end of the second month, their savour 
gives place to a sensation which reminds one of fatty matter 
(p. 743)." 

These observations by Bouley have been confirmed by Poggiale 
and by the Technical Commission charged, in 1889-90, by the 
Minister of War, to study the best conditions of preserving meat 
destined for the revictualling of the troops and entrenched camps. 
Not only does the refrigerated meat gradually change in taste, but 
as soon as it is no longer maintained at 2° or 3° C. in the ordinary 
air, it becomes covered with mould ; and in dry air, it becomes 
smoked, dried up and blackened. 

Things happen otherwise if, as is done in the large American 
establishments of La Plata or the Argentine Republic, the meat, 
as soon as the animal is killed and cut up, is carried into chambers 
maintained at — 10° or — 12° C. These meats, after having 
been rapidly frozen to the centre, are quickly placed in freezing 
chambers at — 5° C. Practically, in these conditions, they pre- 
serve all their qualities ; after six months or more, when they are 
allowed to thaw slowly in the air, they again take on a bright red 
look, the elasticity and nearly the same taste that they had at the 
time of their introduction into the refrigerating chamber. To-day, 
thanks to this industry, the pampas of South America, Australia 
and New Zealand provide Europe with a part of the supplement- 
ary meat which is necessary to it, and in a very satisfactory way. 
In 1894 England alone received from America 833,000 cwt. of 
mutton and beef thus refrigerated and almost as much from her 
colonies Australia and New Zealand. In France the importation 
of these products does not yet exceed 25,000 metric cwts. 

It is scarcely probable that the freezing and preservation of 
these meats sensibly modifies their composition, except in making 
them lose a little water or perhaps in allowing their soluble fer- 
ments to act slowly on the muscular fibre. In order to satisfy 
myself, however, and to reply to the questions raised from the 

- O. rend. t. LXXIX, p. 739. 
158 



FROZEN MEATS 



point of view of public health on the employment of this meat, as 
well as on the attempts to introduce this valuable food into the 
victualling of camps in time of war, I have made a comparative 
analysis of mutton and beef fresh on the one hand, and frozen, 
for eight to nine months, on the other. Here are the results : 

Comparison between Fresh and Frozen Meat. 



Composition for 100 parts. 



Water 

Globulins witli a little albumin 

corresponding to the part of the 

meat soluble in water 

Peptones 

Myosin 

Myostroin 

Indigestible matters (keratins, 

elastins) 
Extractives, ferments, leucomaines 

Glycogens 

Fats and cholesterins .... 
Soluble mineral salts .... 
Insoluble „ „ .... 



Fresh 

Mutton 

(shoulder). 



Total 



74-92 
3-32 



1-33 
8-31 
4-49 
0-86 

0-49 
0-40 
5-23 
0-60 
0-65 



100-52 



Frozen 
Mutton 
(shoulder 
(5-6 mos. 
at - 5"). 

73-66 
2-14 



1-29 

10-33 

4-04 

0-75 

0-95 
0-03 
5-38 
0-53 
0-44 



Fresh Frozen 

Beef I Beef 

(rump (5-6 mos. 

steak). at - 5°). 



100-24 



74-75 
3-06 



2-24 

10-96 

4-30 

0-24 

0-97 
0-38 
1-98 
0-65 
0-44 



99-96 



73-96 
2-69 



2-56 
9-29 
6-41 
0-94 

1-01 
0-16 
2-04 
0-47 
0-44 



100-02 



Further, for 100 grms. of these two kinds of meats, I 
found : 



have 





Fresh Meat. 


Frozen Meat. 




Mutton. 


Beef. 


Mutton. 


Beef. 


Dry extract of parts soluble in cold water . 


5-84 


6-92 


5-34 


6-99 


Dry extract after coagulation by heat of 


2-52 


3-86 


3-20 


4-50 


the albumins and globulins 










Dry extract of broth obtained by ebullition 


3-37 


3-98 


3-62 


4-17 


(8 hrs.) of meat minced with an excess of 










water 










Gelatinizable parts of the meat by heating 


2-72 


2-56 


2-69 


:.15 


at 115° the residue insoluble in water 










Nucleinic acids 


0-56 


0-44 


0-591 


0-66 


Reducing matters of meat calculated in 


0191 


0-24 


0-171 


0-1 


Glucose 











The results from the whole of these determinations are : — 
1st. Meats frozen and preserved for some months from 3° to 
5° contain about 1 per cent, of water less than the good butcher's 
meat of our country left one to two days in the open air. 

159 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

2nd. In 100 parts in weight of these frozen meats we find for 
the total of digestible albuminoids : 





Soluble Farts. 


Insoluble Parts. 


Total. 


For mutton . . 3-13 
For beef . . . | 5-25 


15-27 
15-70 


18-70 
20-95 



The assimilable albuminoids are a little more increased in these 
meats than in fresh meats : 





Fresh Meat. 


Frozen Meat. 




Mutton 

Beef 


17-45 
20-56 


18-70 
20-95 





3rd. Far from being more gelatinous than fresh meat, as has 
been stated, the congealed meats are rather a little less. 

4tli. As to composition and weight, the fat matters are equal 
in the fresh and frozen meats : but in the latter, they take a slight 
taste of tallow, which allows these meats often to be recognized 
even after roasting. 

5th. The extractive matters are not sensibly more abundant 
in the frozen meat, glycogen excepted. But this latter seems to 
disappear little by little during preservation. 

6th. Contrary to that which one would have feared from a 
gradual and slow alteration of the albuminoid matters by the 
natural ferments of the tissues, the leucomaines proportioned to 
the state of phosphomolybdates (allowance being made for the 
peptones), have been slightly less abundant in the frozen meat 
than in the natural meat. 

7th. The peptonized parts of these meats have not sensibly 
varied during freezing : 



Peptones in 100 parts of Meat. 


Frozen Meat. 


iFresh Meat. 


Mutton 


1-33 

2r24 


1-29 


Beef 


2,56 



8th. When, before consuming it, this meat is allowed to reach 
the ordinary temperature, it produces there, under the action of 
fts own ferments, a fairly rapid partial peptonization which con- 
tributes to the formation of an exudation more abundant than 
that produced by fresh meat ; this has led to the belief that 
frozen meat has a greater power of alterability or putrescibility. 
It is supposed that by the act of freezing the cells of the fibre 
break and allow, at the moment of thawing, their contained liquid, 

i6o 



I 



MEATS FROM DISEASED ANIMALS 

to run out. This is quite an erroneous opinion. Dr. LetuUe, 
who has made, in the refrigerating chamber itself, a careful micro- 
scopic examination of the sections of the muscular fibre thus con- 
gealed, has stated that it is perfectly intact, and that one does 
not see in it either ice crystals or lacerations of the fibre of any 
kind. 

9th. The flavour of frozen meat, when it is cooked, differs by 
a slight taste of burnt fat from that of ordinary meat. Boiled 
frozen meat is excellent and difficult to distinguish from ordinary 
meat. 

10th. Finally, I am sure that the digestibility of these meats 
by the gastric juice of the dog, or by a mixture of active pepsin 
and hydrochloric acid in a thousandth part, is identical with that 
of natural meats. 

As for their preservation, a slice of natural beef left in free air 
at 12° to 18° in the spring remained 198 hours without any dis- 
agreeable odour ; a similar slice of frozen meat acquired the odour 
of tainted meat at the end of 92 hours only. But there is a great 
gap between this and the assertion so often expressed that frozen 
meats putrefy immediately after being thawed. As a matter of 
fact, these meats can remain several days in the air, be loaded in 
wagons, transported pell-mell over several hundred kilometres, 
even in summer,^ without any signs of putrefaction appearing. 

It was important to establish these different facts from the 
point of view of the practical use of these meats, especially by the 
army, their transport by rail over long distances from the places 
where they were frozen and stored, their consumption only at the 
end of several days, and the possibility of provisioning forts with 
them. These verifications are the chief result and origin of the 
long work that I have carried out on this subject and which I have 
rapidly recapitulated.^ 

MEATS FROM DISEASED ANIMALS. — POISONOUS MEATS. 

The meats of animals affhcted with infectious diseases can 
transmit these diseases if the mouth and digestive tube of the 
persons consuming them are not healthy, and especially if these 
meats are not well cooked. But, strangely enough, experience 
has shown that it is possible to eat almost with impunity the 
cooked flesh of mad animals (Decroix) and those suffering from 
glanders, typhus, tuberculosis (Bollinger) without contracting 
these diseases. It naturally constitutes a defective and even 
dangerous alimentation if care has not been taken to thoroughly 
well cook the meat, above all, to have it well hailed ; but if this pre- 

1 Provided that they are transported in large quantities at a time and 
directly after they are taken from the refrigerating room. 

2 See my memoir on "Fresh and Frozen Alimentary Meats" in Revue 
(T hygiene de ValUu: April and May 1897. 

l6l M 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

caution is taken, the consumption of these meats is not as a rule 
followed by accidents. 

Animals affected with carbuncles have often been eaten during 
famine, and the spores of the bacteria, which are nevertheless 
remarkably resisting, have very rarely transmitted the carbuncle, 
because these spores are only produced after the death of the 
animal in the parts exposed to the air, where the action of heat is 
then generally sufficient to kill them. 

The meat of animals afflicted with typhus or pest is tainted, 
flabby, brownish and damp. Even after well cooking, it evi- 
dently seems wiser to avoid it. It is the same with the flesh of 



B 





Head and hooks of the 
bothriocephalus. 



Trichina encysted in the 
muscular bundles. 



Fig. 4. 



overdriven animals, those slaughtered in a state of fever or mad- 
ness. They taste doubtful and cause diarrhoea and sometimes 
provoke poisoning. 

Actinomycosic meats must also be avoided ; those which contain, 
as often happens in pork, cysticerci or trichinae (Fig. 4, on the right). 
Pike, salmon, fresh water herring, lote in certain regions (Lakes 
of Geneva, Annecy, etc.) also contain cysticerci and produce 
special toenia (Fig. 4, on the left). 

The meats which have begun to turn putrid are particularly 
unhealthy. They then not only contain very venomous ptomaines 
(collidin, hydrocoUidin, cholin, neurin, tetra and penta-methylene 
diamines), but also toxic albuminoids or toxins whose action on 
the digestive tube causes, sometimes at the end of two or three 
days only, serious enteritis which often proves fatal (Botulisme). 

The meats of veryyoung animals may sometimes act as purga- 
tives. 

162 



k 



XV 



MEATS OF WILD MAMMALS — MEATS OF BIRDS — INTERNAL ORGANS 
AND BLOOD — FISH 

ALIMENTS FURNISHED BY THE INVERTEBRATES. 

A/TEATS of Wild Mammals. — The hare, rabbit, deer, wild 
boar, etc., provide us with a certain contingent of aliment- 
ary meats. In general, the flesh of wild animals is more indigest- 
ible than that of the animals of the shambles, less fat and stronger 
in taste. The straining of the animal when it has been hunted 
before its death, and the non-extravasation of its blood are condi- 
tions which essentially modify the tastes of these meats. They 
are often more savoury, richer in extract, more stimulating, 
more coloured, harder to the teeth, generally more difficult to 
digest than butcher's meat, even when it is made tender by keeping 
it and allowing it to get high or pickling it. Game constitutes 
then an exceptional alimentation, very stimulating for people — 
healthy or otherwise. It is liable to cause intestinal troubles, 
cutaneous eruptions, hepatic and renal congestions, etc. 

We have given (p. 115) some analyses of these meats. 

Meats 'provided, by Birds. — The flesh of birds of the poultry yard, 
the fowl, turkey, guinea-fowl, pigeon, duck and goose, placing 
them in the order of their decreasing digestibility, contribute in 
a sensible degree to our ordinary alimentation. Pigeon consti- 
tutes a heating nourishment ; its meat is rich in extract, in phos- 
phoric bodies, in principles furnishing uric derivatives. Duck 
produces a very variable flesh according to the kind. 
Wild duck often furnishes an abundant and odorous fat with 
sometimes an unpleasant fishy taste. Goose is tough except 
when young. 

Here are some summary analyses of these bird meats ; the 
three first are due to Von Bibra. In the two others, due to M. 
Balland, the composition of goose flesh before and after roasting 
has been set forth : 

163 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





Fowl. 


Wild Duck. 


Pigeon. 

17-00 \ 

4-50 J 
2-50 
variable 

76-00 


Fat Goose. 


Boasted 
Goose. 


Muscular fibre, vessels, 

tendons, etc. 
Soluble albuminoids . 
Collagenous matters | 
Extractive „ / 
Fats 

Water and losses . 

Ash 


16-50 

3-00 

2-60 

very 

variable 

77-30 


17-68 

2-68 
1-23 \ 
4-12 / 
2-53 

71-76 


14-24 

0-58 
18-85 

66-00 
0-33 


26-82 

304 
17-29 

61-90 
0-95 



I have given other analyses of these meats (goose, turkey, 
partridge and thrush) in the general table on p. 115. 

White, Red and Black Meats. — We often classify the meats in 
white, red and black groups and we admit a priori that the white 
are lighter to the stomach ; the black are more exciting and more 
difficult to digest. In reality, white meats (gallinacean, veal, 
venison, lamb and fish) are most often less succulent than the 
black meats of wild animals, which above all owe their deep 
colour to the fact that they have not lost their blood the moment 
they have died. But certain white meats, those of veal, venison, 
rabbit, for example, are more difficult to digest than the red meats 
of beef or mutton, at least where there is an equal quantity of 
fat. White meats contain nearly as much extractive material, 
and some, in spite of their colour (rabbit, veal, venison, pigeon) 
are very rich in nucleins and produce more uric acid than the red 
meats, if not more than the black. Besides, the same animal, the 
rabbit or fowl, for example, furnishes white or red meat accord- 
ing to its various parts. The relation claimed between the colour 
of the meats and their digestibility is then very arbitrary. Save 
for wild animals, whose meats are more charged with extract, 
more stringy, less rich in fat, more exciting, more savoury, and 
amongst whom the blood is not extravasated at the moment of 
death, more or less colouration of the meat is not a sign of its 
lesser or its greater digestibility. 



INTERNAL ORGANS. 

Warm blooded animals provide for our alimentation, besides 
their muscular tissue, various accessory parts which we include 
under the general term of internal organs. Some are almost 
entirely muscular, such as the heart ; others differ more or 
less from meat in their composition, such as the liver, lungs, 
cerebral tissue, etc. Some practical indications on these acces- 
sory aliments of animal origin will be of some use here. 

The Heart. — It is a fibrous meat, of mediocre taste but very 
nutritious and furnishes an excellent broth. Here is given the 

164 



INTERNAL ORGANS 

average percentage composition in relation to the meat taken 
from the same animal : 



Nerves, tendons, fibres . 

Albuminous matters sol- 
uble in water acidulated 
with HCl (1 in 1000) 

Collagenous matters . 

Fatty matters 

Mineral salts .... 

Water 



Meat from 

Upper Cut 

of Beef. 



8-18 
2-72 



6-10 

9-60 

2-00 

71-40 



Heart of 
Same Ox. 



17-10, 

2-42 



8-86) 
2-30 
0-57 
68-75 



Heart of Ox 
(average). 



19-60 

13-7 

0-88 
56-7 



Heart of 

Sheep 
(average). 



17-65 

5-73 
0-91 
75-1 



These analyses show the excess of fibre, tendons, etc., found in 
cardiac muscle ; its poorness in fatty material and salts ; its rich- 
ness in collagenous substances liquefiable by boiling in water. 
The heart is rich also in glycogen and nucleins. 

The Spleen. — The flesh of the spleen is very little sought after. 
Its mean composition is, according to Kcenig : 





Beef. 


Pork. 


Nitrogenous matters . 

Fatty matters 

Non-nitrogenous matters . 
Ash 


19-87 
2-55 
0-17 
1-70 

75-71 


15-67 
5-83 
2-84 
1-42 


Water 


75-24 







L 



The assimilable portion of this organ is provided chiefly by 
the globulins and nucleo-albumins ; one of them is very ferru- 
ginous. The loose framework of the spleen is filled with close 
malpighian corpuscles containing white and red globules in the 
process of transformation, accompanied by numerous extractive 
materials — sarcin, guanin, xanthin, lecithins, tyrosin, leucin, cho- 
lesterin, etc. In conclusion this flesh is only a very bad aliment. 

Kidneys. — Their flesh is excellent when they come from very 
young herbivorous animals ; but these organs are bad when they 
come from old or carnivorous animals. In the first case they 
constitute a very nourishing aliment and easy to digest. Gott- 
walt ^ has found there 1 to 1*5 per cent, of serin ; 8 to 9 per cent, 
of globulins and nucleo-albumins ; 1*5 per cent, of a sort of casein ; 
4 to 5" 5 per cent of collagenous and undetermined substances. 
Sarcin has also been traced in it (0'068 per cent.), as well as 
inosit, taurin, a little cystin, lecithins, etc. 

^ Zeitsch. physiol. Chem. t. IV, p. 431. 
165 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Here is the composition of the kidneys of some comestible 
animals : 





Veal. 


Mutton. 


Pork. 


Nitrogenous substances .... 
Fats 


2213 

2-77 

1-25 
72-85 


16-56 
3-33 
0-21 
1-30 

78-61 


18-14 
6-69 


Non-nitrogenous extractive 

Ash 


0-97 


Water 


74-20 



The Liver. — This is a good aliment if it is taken from young and 
healthy animals ; but it needs sufficient cooking to destroy 
the infectious germs which it may contain. In it are found 
specific soluble proteids, coagulable at 45°, 50° and 56° ; a 
kind of myosin, a globulin ; a nucleo-albumin coagulable at 70 to 
71 ° ; some savoury and phosphorated fats and lecithins which, 
in foie gras can exceed 30 per cent, of the total weight of the organ ; 
finally glycogen, varying in proportion according to the mode of 
alimentation and the race of the animal, from 1 to 16 per cent. 
Liver contains besides a ferruginous pigment, hematogen, rela- 
tively abundant in the case of new born animals.^ The liver 
of young animals is also easily assimilable and as nutritive as 
meat. 

Here is the percentage composition of liver according to 
Von Bibra: 



Beef. 


Veal. 


Mutton. 


Pork. 


Water 


71-4 


72-80 


69-25 


7116 


Insoluble parts . 






11-3 


— 


— 


— 


Soluble albumins 
Collagenous matters 




2-4) 
6-3) 


17-60 


18-18 


18-61 


Fatty matters 






3-3 


2-39 


5-24 


8-32 


Extractive matters 






4-9 


5-47 


6-20 


— 


Mineral matters . 






1-0 


1-68 


1-13 


1-91 



The mineral matters of liver are especially rich in phosphates 
of potash and soda. 

Lungs. — The lung (commonly called " lights ") is a very little 
esteemed food, although fairly nutritive. It contains in the case 
of beef and mutton from 8 to 15 per cent, of nitrogenous 
materials, partly assimilable, formed especially of cartilage, elastin, 
mucin, keratin, with leucin, taurin, guanin and uric acid, etc., in 
which this parenchyma is very rich. These substances greatly 



* Calf's liver contains 0-18 grms. per cent, of iron at birth, and only 
0-032 grms. after some weeks. 

l66 



INTERNAL ORGANS 

diminish its alimentary value. ^ However, cats and dogs easily 
digest this aliment. 

Brains, Marrow. — Cerebral material is essentially formed of 
nitrogenous and phosphorated fats (lecithins) free or united with 
albuminoids (protagons), with ordinary fats (olein, margarin, 
stearin) and a sort of casein or globulin easy to digest and very 
nutritive. This composition resembles to a great degree the cere- 
bral material of the yolk of an egg. It contains from 70 to 80 per 
cent, of water. 

The following is the composition, according to Balland {loC. 
cit.), of calf's brain (scalded): 



• 
Water ...... 


. 69-10 


Nitrogenous matters 


. 13-26 


Fatty matters ..... 


. . . 16-33 


Extractive matters .... 


. 0-12 


Ash 


0-19 



100-00 

We find 02 to O"? per cent, of mineral salts in the brain formed 
chiefly of phosphate of potash and sodium chloride. 

As inutilizable substances, the nervous material contains a sort 
of keratin, some cholesterin and puric bodies. 

The spinal marrow is almost similarly composed. 

While possessing a very different constitution, bone marrow 
contains as much as 97 per cent, of fatty substances rich in phos- 
phorated lecithins. That of young animals pounded raw in cold 
water, gives a thick reddish liquid which appears to have been 
administered with success in cases of anaemia and chlorosis 
(Damford, Eraser, Ehrlich). 

Sweetbread or Thymus. — Sweetbread excels in its easy digestibil- 
ity. It is, above all, composed of special assimilable albuminoids 
and of some fats, phosphorated or not. Here is its rough per- 
centage composition : Albuminous substances, 22 ; collagenous 
substances, 6 ; fats, 0'4 ; salts, r6 ; water, 70 per cent. 

Skin ; Head ; Lard.— The soft parts of the derma are all comes- 
tible. The skin, head, ears and feet contain a certain quantity 
of muscular fibres, of assimilable albuminous materials, of cellu- 
lar tissue more or less rich in fat, elastic and connective fibres. 
These latter, by cooking in water, are transformed into a gela- 
tinuous material very rich in nucleins. It is also necessary to 
avoid giving these aliments to gouty people and arthritics. 

Skin with its cellular sub-layers charged with fatty bodies 
(especially in the case of animals submitted to forced fattening), 
forms lard. It has, like pork, the following composition with 

^ Composition of calf's lights according to Balland : Water, 78-00 ; 
nitrogenous matters, 16-36 ; fatty matters, 1-63 ; extractives, 2-65 ; ash, 
1-36 per cent. 

167 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

which we will compare that of the same aliment kept after salting, 
and as it is usually eaten : 



Lard in its Natural i 
Form. 



Lard Salted. 



Water 

Fatty matters 

Soluble albuminous materials 
Collagenous substances 
Aponeurosis and fibres 
Mineral salts 



69-55 
11-77 

23-31 



62-68 
8-68 

22-32 



110 6-42 

G^rardin C. Mene 

(lean animal) j 



9-15 
75-76 
1-13 
0-71 
7-28 
5-98 
C. Mene 



These analyses are certainly not applicable to a series of 
previous deductions which may be compared ; the third in 
particular, relates to lard with all its fat. 

Lard is a rather heavy aliment, but sought after for the savour 
which it communicates to vegetables. It accompanies and forms 
a good addition to dry vegetables. 

Blood. — Blood, especially that of the pig, is utilized under 
different forms in alimentation (blood saveloys, black pudding, 
Swedish blood bread etc.). It contains in the natural state, 
according to the kind, from 77 to 84 per cent, of water ; 8 to 16 
per cent, of a ferruginous albuminoid substance, haemoglobin 
3 to 8 per cent, of serin and globulin (albuminoids of the plasma) 
0-12 to 0-20 of fibrin ; from 0-12 to 0-30 per cent, of different fats 
and from 0*7 to 13 per cent, of mineral salts rich in phosphates. 

It is a difficult aliment to digest and assimilate. It should only 
be consumed mixed with lard and other fats and after being well 
cooked, because it rapidly changes and may, even in the fresh 
state, contain infectious germs. 

Here is a summary of the composition of the blood of a few 
comestible animals : 



Percentage Composition of the Blood 


OF Comestible Animals 


. 




Ox. 


Cow. 


Calf. 


Sheep. 


Pig. 


Babbit. 


Fowl. 


Gooee. 


Horse. 




Ve- Ar- 




















nous. terial. 




















blood, blood. 


Water 


79-6 


78-8 


83-6 


79-8 


76-9 \ 81-73 


78-50 81-49 81-5 81-98 


Red corpuscles . 


12-3 


12-6 


9-25 10-2 


14-6 1,7 07/ 15-1 


12-14 9-871 9-67 


Soluble albumins 


6-5 


6-7 


5-53 8-5 


7-29)^^-^^\ 


4-72 


5-08 8-12i 7-81 


Fibrin .... 


0-54 


0-63 


0-41 0-32| 0-39 0-38 


0-51 


0-35 0-50 0-53 


Fats .... 


0-22 


0-22 


0-13 0-18| 0-19 0-19 


0-23 


0-26 — 


— 


Extractives . 


— 


0-20 


0-30 0-20 — i — 


0-10 


— — 


— 


Ash ... . 


0-87 


0-98 


109| 0-98 0-79 — 


0-90 


0-80 — 


— 


Authors . 


Poggiale 


H. Nasse 


Poggiale 1 C16ment 



1 68 



I 



FISH 



FISH. 



I 



Fish has formed and still forms, the sole animal nourishment of 
certain people called ichthyophagists. If the Latin and Saxon 
races consume relatively a small amount of fish, those of the coasts 
of Northern Europe and Northern Asia nourish themselves on it 
almost exclusively. The Chinese and Japanese eat scarcely any 
butcher's meat ; fish with rice, and sometimes a little pork and poul- 
try, constitutes the groundwork of their alimentation. The flesh of 
fish is less nutritive than that of herbivorous animals, it contains 
less strengthening power. It is perhaps less universally supported 
by the majority of stomachs than ordinary meat. It is said 
to be slightly aphrodisiac. In some people it brings on nettlerash 
and eczema ; it is not altogether satisfactory for the gouty or 
arthritic and those suffering from diseases of the kidneys and 
bladder, etc., etc. But, except in the cases of certain very fat 
fish, as the eel or salmon, this flesh is equally if not more easy to 
digest than that of herbivorous and gallinaceous animals. 

It is besides very different according to the species from which 
it comes, and in the same species, according to the time of year 
and the place in which the fish live. The proportion of their fat 
varies enormously (from 0'14 to 30 per cent.) It is liquid and 
contains from 50 to 65 per cent, of olein rich in special phosphor- 
ated matters. 

The flesh of fish impregnates itself sensibly with the odour 
of the places in which they live. The difference in taste of mul- 
lets from the high seas is distinguishable from those which are 
nourished in pools and fishponds with stagnant water. The same 
kind of fish may become poisonous in certain places on the coast 
or at certain seasons only, as happens in the case of the horse 
mackerel fished for at Guadeloupe, the scorpena of St. Domingo, 
the fugu of Japan. It is well known how rapidly fish loses its 
freshness ; the least alteration in its flesh may give rise to 
itching, eczema and sometimes diarrhoea. 

Here are some analyses of the flesh of several common fish. 
They are due to M. Balland ^ and relate to 100 fresh parts : 
Analysis of the Flesh of Fish in a Fresh State. (Accobding to 

M. Balland.) 



Shad. 
S.R.2 


Eiver Eel. 
R. 


Pike. 
R. 


Carp. 
R. 


Gudgeon.' Trout. 
R. 1 R. 


Water 63-90 

Nitrogenous matters 3 21-88 
Fatty matters . . 12-85 
Extractive matters . 0-11 
Ash 1 1-26 


59-80 
13-05 
25-69 
,0-70 
0-76 


79-50 1 78-90 

18-35 ' 15-71 

0-66 4-77 

0-41 j 0-08 

1-08 ! 0-54 


81-20 

15-94 

1-03 

0-44 

1-39 


80-50 

17-52 

0-74 

0-44 

0-80 



1 C. rend., t. CXXXVI, p. 1,729.- 

2 S.R. =sea and river fish ; R. river fish ; S =sea fish. 

3 Calculated by multiplying their total nitrogen by the constant coeffi- 
cient 6-25 ; which evidently only gives an approximation. 

169 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Water 

Nitrogenous matters ^ 
Fatty matters 
Extractive matters . 
Ash 



Salmon. 
S.R. 



61-40 
17-46 
20-00 
•0-08 
0-87 



Sole. 
S. 



79-20 

17-26 

0-81 

1-11 

1-62 



Mackerel. 
8. 



67-60 

15-67 

1504 

0-28 

1-41 



Cod. 
S. 



84-20 

13-87 

0-14 

1-00 

0-79 



Fresh 

Herring. 

S. 



76-00 

17-23 

4-80 

0-46 

1-51 



Skate. 
S. 



76-40 

22-08 

0-45 

0-17 

0-90 



These figures show the variableness of the composition of the 
flesh of fish, in which water can rise from 59 to 84 per cent., the 
nitrogenous matters from 13 to 22 per cent, and the fatty matters 
from 014 to 25 per cent, and more. 

The numbers given above relate to the pure flesh. But in the 
calculation of an alimentation for supplying a family, a college, 
an administration, etc., it is necessary to take into account the 
waste matters — fish bones, fins, head, entrails, scales, etc. They 
reach, according to Payen, to 24 per cent, for the eel, 32 per cent, 
for pike, 37 per cent, for carp, 9 per cent, for salmon, 22 per cent, 
for mackerel, 19" 2 per cent, for skate, 40- 9 per cent, for whiting, 
etc. On an average 26 per cent. 

From these analyses we conclude : 1st, that for the flesh of 
fish, the quantity of nutritive nitrogenous matter is generally 
less, by from 2 to 4 per cent., than in the case of mammals ; 2nd, 
that the proportion of fat, as well as the nature of these fatty 
bodies, is very variable in the case of fish ; 3rd, that the matters 
called extractives are much less abundant in fish than in the case 
of beef. The flesh of less fat fish (pike, dab, whiting, cod, perch, 
skate, sole, tench, weever) is also the most nitrogenous and best 
digested. 

There is no connexion between the composition of the flesh of 
fish of the same group. 

In these animals the mineral matters are more abundant and 
richer in chloride of sodium for sea-water fish, and in potassium 
phosphate for fresh- water fish. Here is an example : 



Per cent, of ash. 


Haddock (sea- water). 


Pike (river). 


Potash (K20) 

Soda (Na20) 

Lime 

MgO . . 

P205 . . 

S03 . , 

CI . . . 










13-84 

36-51 
3-39 
1-90 

13-70 
0-31 

38-11 


23-92 
20-45 
7-38 
3-81 
38-16 
2-50 
4-74 


Weight of ash f c 
of flesh 


rl( 


)0p 


arts 


i 


11-26 


6-13 



1 Calculated by multiplying their total nitrogen by the constant coeffi- 
cient 625 ; which evidently only gives an approximation. 

170 



FISH 

By cooking in water, the flesh of fish loses a part of its soluble 
and extractive substances and becomes less exciting and a little 
less nourishing. That of thin-fleshed fish (sole, whiting, pike, 
perch, etc.), when it has been boiled, forms aplastic aliment which 
though light to digest, introduces into the system only a minimum 
of extractive exciting matters. It agrees particularly with conva- 
lescents. 

With fish and blood dried and pulverized, mixed with salt, 
flour, and spices, preparations are made in Sweden, rich in pro- 
teid bodies (70 to 80 per cent.), and which are very nutritive and 
at a price sufficiently low to contribute usefully to the alimentation 
of the people. 

We eat a large quantity of salted or smoked fish — salted cod, 
salted or smoked herring, salted and smoked salmon, etc. These 
aliments are very rich in albuminous materials, and being rela- 
tively cheap, are able to render good service. It is better to get 
rid of the excess of salt by soaking the fish in pure water before 
cooking. 

Here are some analyses of these aliments : 

Centesimal Composition of some Salted or Smoked Fish.i 





Dried Cod 

(average). 


Salted 

Cod 

(average). 


Salted Salted and 
Herring Smoked 
(average). Herring. 


Smoked 
Salmon. 


Sardines 
in Oil 
(flesh). 


Water .... 
Nitrogenous matters 

Fats 

Non-nitrogenous mat- 
ters 
Mineral salts . 


16-16 

81-54 

0-74 

1-56 


13-20 

73-72 

337 

9-92 


46-23 

18-90 

16-89 

1-57 

16-412 


34-38 
36-76 
15-74 

13-12 


61-78 
20-16 
15-68 

2-38 


56-30 

23-21 

14-07 

2-27 

4-15 


Authors 


Almen 
At water 


A. 

Almen 


A. Atwater ; Atwater 
Almen and | and 
Woods Woods 


Balland 



It is well known that there are certain parts of some fish 
which are or may become poisonous ; such are the eggs of barbel, 
pike, loach and conger eel. It is their flesh and eggs which are toxic 
at the time of spawning, as the fugu {Tetroden rubripes) of Japan 
and the Meletta thrissa. Others have a flesh freely poisonous 
at all times, although they may be excellent to the taste, such as 
the majority of the animals belonging to the Tetrodon and Diodon 
species, the boelassa anchovy of the rivers flowing into the Indian 
Ocean, the guiet, the false horse mackerel, the ostracean or trunk 
fish and the toad fish of the Cape. The signs of these poisonings, 
generally very rapid, are : reddening of the tongue, vomiting, 
diarrhoea, articular pains, dysuria, pruritus, irritation of the 



1 According to J. Koenig, loc. cit. 
171 



2 14-5 of salt. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



throat, dilatation of the pupils, hardness, frequency and small- 
ness of the pulse, state of syncope. 

ALIMENTS FURNISHED BY THE INVERTEBRATA. 

Reptiles, Crustacea, gasteropods, cephalopods, molluscs and 
radiata also furnish a certain number of aliments. 

The flesh of snakes is consumed in some poor countries in the 
guise of eel's flesh. I refer to it here, because it may be poisonous 
if badly cooked. 

The turtle gives a gelatinous flesh, dense and rich in fat, rather 
sought after. The eggs of these animals are consumed in great 
numbers on the river banks of South America, where these animals 
abound. They are even dried and their powder hawked about. 

The legs of the frog form a very acceptable dish, recalling the 
flesh of fowl but more easily digested. It is an aliment to be 
recommended to convalescents and to those with delicate 
stomachs. 

M. Balland has found for 100 grms. of this flesh : 



Water ..... 


. 78-40 


Nitrogenous matters . 


. 18-45 


Fatty matters 


. 0-47 


Extractive matters 


0-44 


Ash 


1-24 



On the contrary, edible snails, used in rather a large number 
in some countries as an aliment of taste, give a rather indigestible 
flesh which ought to be strongly seasoned in preparation. The 
most appreciated are the vine or Burgundy snails {Helix pomatia), 
the Helix sylvatica of Southern France, the H. aspersa, vermiculata, 
variabilis, etc., which they eat very much seasoned or with vinegar 
sauce, etc. Here is the composition of Burgundy snail accord- 
ing to M. Balland : 





Non-discharged. 


Discharged in Salt Water. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters . 
Fatty matters .... 
Extractive matters 
Ash 


85-00 

10-11 

0-72 

2-61 

1-50 


81-00 

14-27 

0-83 

2-46 

1-44 



Oysters are the most sought after of the number of aliments of 
luxury. In France the Ostrea edulis, the 0. hippopus, the 0. 
mediterranea, etc., are eaten. Their flesh, easily digested, is 
principally formed of very assimilable albuminoid substances 
accompanied by phosphorated fatty matters and glycogen. 

Unfortunately oysters change rather quickly when they are 
kept and are only succulent and without danger at the time when 
they are not spawning — from October to April. Again, it is 
necessary that they should not have been fished for at the mouths 

172 



FLESH OF CRUSTACEA, MOLLUSCS, ETC. 

of rivers or basins in which drains or cesspools are sometimes 
discharged. In this case they can become poisonous and 
transmit the bacilli of typhoid fever. 

Here is the percentage composition of the flesh of the oyster, 
of the comestible mussel, and the heart-shell or cockle {Gardium 
edule) : 





Oyster. 


Mussel. 


Cockle. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters . 

Fatty matters 

Non-nitrogenous matters 
Mineral salts 


80-52 
9-04 
2-04 
6-44 
1-96 


82-20 

11-25 

1-21 

4-04 

1-30 


92-00 
4-16 
0-29 
2-32 
1-23 




J. Koenig 
(Average) 


Balland 



The flesh of these animals appears to be very rich in a special 
glycogen, that of the mussel particularly. 

Amongst the edible Crustacea let us quote the crawfish, shrimps, 
crayfish, lobster, crab, etc. Their flesh is very phosphorated and 
very savoury, but rather difficult to digest, and ought only to be 
consumed seasoned and prepared with spices. 

Crustacea, mussels, etc., can provoke nettlerash, eczema, 
nausea and diarrhoea. Shrimps and certain crabs make delicate 
and peptogenic dishes. 

Finally, the ovaries of sea urchins, the ducts of some actiniae 
and certain medusae are eaten. These are exciting aliments, rich 
in phosphorus and organic bromine and iodine. 

Here are some analyses of the flesh of these animals : 



; Tortoise.i 


Frog. 

80-13 
16-0 
0-10 
3-46 


Shrimp. 


Lobster 
Flesh.i 


Crawfish. 


Water '77-60 

Nitrogenous matters . 16-25 
Fatty matters . . . 1-16 
Extractive matters . . '. 2-08 
Mineral matters . . . i 2-9 P 


78-80 

17-98 

1-00 

1-01 

1-21 


76-62 

19-17 

117 

1-2 

1-82 


82-30 

13-59 

0-57 

2-89 

0-65 



The flesh of the lobster, shrimp and frog is rich in nitrogenous 
matters. The oyster, mussel and cockle, on the contrary, are 
light aliments, kinds of condiments. According to A. Bourchardat, 
they are suitable for diabetics. 

* Analyses of Payen. I have found that on an average, in a lobster, 
the comestible flesh is just half its weight. The carapace, entrails, etc., 
form the other half. 

2 1-86 of soluble albumins and 2*48 of collagenous matters. 



173 



XVI 

MILK 

THE value of milk and its derivatives reaches annually, in 
France alone, to more than a thousand millions. This 
expresses the importance which this ahment plays in general 
alimentation. In London, each inhabitant consumes 40 litres a 
year, in Paris about 60 litres. Added to bread it constitutes a 
complete food which is sufficient for man for an indefinite 
period. 

The milk of various domestic mammals is a white opaque 
liquid, of a slightly creamy consistency, of a sweet and slightly 
perfumed savour, of an insipid odour, of variable composition 
and easily changeable. 

It is essentially formed of an opalescent plasma in which are 
held in suspension myriads of buttery globules of diameter 
varying from x^ o^h to yoVirt-h of a milHmetre ; this plasma holding 
in solution, more or less complete, some albuminoid substances, 
a special sugar and different salts. 

The bodies in suspension in the plasma of the milk are of 
two kinds : 1st, globules of butter which appear to be formed 
of a very fine extensible envelope of a proteid nature, enveloping 
a droplet of body fat ; the milk contains about 1,500,000 of them 
per cubic millimetre of these ; 2nd, fine granulations of phos- 
phates united to a special nucleinic albuminoid body. 

The density of milk varies from 1027 to 1032 — average 
1030 in a woman. This average density is 1032 in a cow ; 
from 1030 to 1034 in a she-goat ; from 1037 to 1040 in a 
sheep ; from 1*029 to 1-035 in a she-ass ; 1-030 in a mare. 

Pure milk, ordinary cow's milk, freezes at 0-53°C. This 
characteristic figure of the milk of this animal is an excellent 
sign of its purity {J. Winter). If water is added to milk its 
freezing point is nearer 0°C. 

Left at rest, milk separates itself slowly into two layers : the 
buttery globules, less dense, rise to the surface and form the 
cream ; the lower liquid, more aqueous, of a bluer tone, con- 
stitutes the skimmed milk. The rising of the cream can be 

174 



COMPOSITION OF MILK 

hastened by a temperature of 20° to 30° C. by means of centri- 
fugal machines. 

The reaction of fresh milk is neutral to litmus ; it is acid 
to phenolphthalein (Vaiidin). For cow's mUk, this reaction 
corresponds to about 1-1 grms. of free phosphoric acid per litre ; 
for woman's milk, to 1-20 grms. ; for that of a she-ass, to 0-3 grm. 
of free phosphoric acid per litre. This acid reaction is especially 
due to the proteid matters of milk. 

Milk oxidizes gradually when it is kept. It becomes acid 
to litmus, even protected from the air, and ends by curdling. 
This acidity, due to the production of lactic acid by fermentation 
of the sugar of milk, is hastened by slight heat. The matter 
which becomes insoluble by coagulation of the milk is casein, 
the principal albuminous substance of its plasma. Before its 
coagulation, this casein was not however dissolved, properly 
speaking, in the milk : it does not pass in fact through porous 
unglazed porcelain even in vacuo, when one tries to separate 
from milk its soluble parts by this mode of filtration. It exists 
in the milk in a distended and mucilaginous condition, forming 
an opalescent demi-solution whence the mineral and organic 
acids precipitate it in separating it from the phosphates, and 
taking possession of the potash and lime to which it is united. 
It is this case in which, modifying itself under the action of the 
special ferment of rennet (Casease or Lab.) and, transforming 
itself thus into an entirely insoluble matter caseum, or cheese, 
thus causing the curdling of the milk. 

Submitted to stomachic digestion, the casein of the majority 
of milks gives a residue of nucleins and para-nucleins. Together 
with this principal albuminoid, milk contains an albumin and 
a globulin coagulable by heat, constituting what has been called 
lact-albumin (Filhol ; A. Bechamp ; Sebelin ; Hammarsten ; 
Arthus). 

All these albuminous substances together form from 1-5 to 
5-5 per cent, of the weight of the milk. Neither proteoses nor 
peptons are found there. 

The caseins of different milks are not identical among them- 
selves. That of human milk does not precipitate by diluted 
acids. The butter from which the buttery globules are formed 
contains olein and margarin, with 2 per cent, of butyrin and a 
slight quantity of stearin and myristin. There are found in 
commercial butter, interposed with the buttery globules, some 
particles of casein, a little lactalbumin and lactose dissolved in 
a small quantity of serum, soluble ferments and microbes being 
the immediate causes of its souring. 

The proportion of butter is essentially variable in milks (10 to 
60 grms. per litre in that of a woman, 30 to 82 per cent, in that 
of a cow). 

175 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The milk-sugar or lactin which is found dissolved in the 
plasma of the milk, did not pre-exist in the blood of the animal ; 
it forms only in the breast. This sugar appears to be the same 
for all mammifers. It is a bihexose corresponding to the formula 
Qi2jj22Qu^ H^O when it has been separated from the serum of 
the milk by crystallization. It constitutes then a white matter, 
crisp under the teeth, slightly sweet, soluble in six parts 
of cold water, fermentable, reducing Fehling's solution, but not 
in the same proportions as glucose. Human milk contains 
from 25 to 70 grms. of this sugar per litre ; that of the cow or 
mare 35 to 50 ; that of the ass 50 to 75 grms. 

Besides the preceding organic matters, milk contains some 
lecithins, phosphorized and nitrogenous fat substances of which 
we shall speak a propos of the egg, and which constitute one of 
the good forms under which phosphorus is assimilated. Cow's 
milk contains, on an average, 0-90 grms. to 1-13 grms. per litre, 
that of a woman 1-70 to 1-83 grms. [Stoklaza). 

Another very important phosphorized and nitrogenous combina- 
tion of milk is phosphocarnic acid or nucleon (which is precipi- 
tated by the ferric salts). Nucleon, under the influence of water, 
of baryta water at 100°, divides itself into phosphoric acid, carnic 
or creatic acid C^^H^^N^O^ and carbo-hydrate. Out of 100 parts 
of total phosphorus, cow's milk contains 6 parts, that of a 
woman 4 parts, in the form of nucleon. This substance appears 
to be the principal agent of the assimilation of phosphorus, 
lime and iron in the system,^ Human milk contains 1-24 grms., 
goat's milk 1-10 grms., cow's milk 0-57 grms. of nucleon per 
litre. 

We also find in milk some traces of urea, creatin, citric acid, 
alcohol, colouring and perfumed matters, finally diastasic fer- 
ments and microbes. These diastases are found again in a 
measure in whey produced by the coagulation of milk by rennet 
or by acids. One of these diastases injected under the skin has 
the property of lowering the temperature of the feverish {Dr. 
Bloruiel) ; another, of gradually rendering casein soluble, even 
when coagulated ; another of liquefying and hydrolyzing starch 
(A. Bechamp). Milk contains also dissolved, suspended in its 
plasma or combined, valuable mineral matters for the develop- 
ment of young subjects : human milk on incineration yields 
from 1-36 to 6 grms. per litre ; that of the cow from 5 to 9 grms. ; 
that of the ass 5 grms. ; of the goat 5-6 grms. Here is the 
analysis of these mineral matters calculated to a litre of 
milk : 



* Seigfried, Bull., t. XVI, p. 146 ; t. XVIIl, pp. 912. 913. 
176 



GENERAL COMPOSITION OF MILK 





Woman. 


Cow. 


Chloride of sodium 

„ potassium 

Phosphate of Hme 

„ soda 

„ magnesia .... 

„ iron 

Carbonate of soda 

Soda (united with albuminoids) . 
Sulphate, silicate of potash . 
Fluoride of calcium 


1-35 
0-41 
3-95 

traces 
0-27 

traces 

traces 


0-81 
3-41 

3-87 

0-87 
traces 

traces 


0-46 
0-99 
3-46 

0-66 
0-25 
0-67 

0-79 


Total per litre 


5-98 


8-96 


7-28 




Filhol and Joly 


Marchand 



According to Bun 


ge, 1,000 parts of milk contain : 








K20 


Na20 


CaO 


MgO. 


Fe203 


P205 


CI. 


Human milk . 
Cow's milk 
Mare's milk . 


0-78 
1-77 
1-05 


0-23 
Ml 
0-14 


0-33 
1-60 
1-24 


0-06 
0-21 
0-13 


0-004 
0-004 
0-020 


0-47 
1-97 
1-31 


0-44 
1-70 
0-31 



According to Messrs. Friedjung and JoUes, 3-5 to 7 milligrms. 
per litre of iron is found in human milk. It appears united 
with the casein. 

Finally, by the air pump, we extract from 100 volumes of milk 
about 3 volumes of gas formed especially of carbonic acid with 
a httle nitrogen and oxygen. They are abundantly set free at 
the time of the digestion of the milk, or when it is filtered in 
vacuo through the semi-vitrefied porcelain. The carbonic acid 
appears to me to be feebly combined in milk, partly with the 
casein, partly with the phosphates and alkaline carbonates. 

A litre of cow's milk furnishes, on an average, 750 Calories ; 
sweetened with 60 grms. of saccharose per litre, it corresponds 
to about 1,000 Calories. Here are the characteristics of each of 
the most common milks. 

Human Milk. — The best milk for the development of the young 
is that which comes from women of 21 to 32 years of age, robust, 
of a calm and cheerful character, fair or dark, of an average 
stoutness, having a healthy skin, good teeth, and a sustained 
appetite. Such are the external characters of good wet-nurses. 

Human milk is opaline, rather sweet, alkaline to litmus, 
almost odourless. It does not coagulate even in heat, under 
the action of diluted acetic acid, but rennet curdles it into light 
flakes. The casein of this milk is not the same as that of cow's 
milk ; it does not precipitate by chloride of sodium, but by the 

177 N 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

addition of sulphate of ammonia in excess. It is a kind of 
laet-albumin. It differs furtlier from the ordinary casein in 
that its digestion does not leave nucleinic matters. The lact- 
albumin of human milk differs also from that of cow's milk by 
its rotatory power (Bechamp).^ 

It has already been said that human milk is much richer in 
lecithins, nucleons and directly assimilable phosphorus in 
organic forms, than any other milk and especially that of the 
cow. 

Here is a table of the composition of human milk : 

Composition (per litre) or Human Milk examined xjndeb Variable 
Conditions. 





Composi- 
tion, 
General 
Average. 


Rich in 
Kourish- 
ment. 


Insuffi- 
cient 
Nourish- 
ment. 


Nourish- 
ment rich 
in Fat. 


Nourish- 
ment poor 
in Fat. 


Average. 
English 
Women. 


Average. 

French 

Women. 


Density 
Water . . . 


1030 
8741 


885-6 


901-3 


906-6 


895-6 


877-9 


1-032 
868-2 


Casein . 
Albumin . 


10-3 \ 
12-6 / 


20-9 


16-0 


7-5 


7-2 


/25-3 
138-7 


243 
46-8 


Butter 


37-8 


46-9 


28-3 


195 


22-5 


564 


57-4 


Lactose 


62- 1 


451 


52-7 


70-7 


73 1 


— 


— 


Mineral salts . 


31 


1-5 


1-7 


1-8 


1-6 


2-5 


199 


Fixed residue 


125-9 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1236 


131 8 


Authors . 


J. 

Koenig 


Pfei 


ffer 


C. Kr 


auch 


Forster 


Vemois 
.feBec- 
querel, 
Doyere, 
etc. 



According to Lebedeff, the butter furnished by this milk is 
formed half of olein, half of palmitin and myristin, with a little 
stearin and traces of butyrin. The principal fats are accom- 
panied by lecithins. The butter of this milk melts at 30°. 

A woman who suckles, secretes from tlie third to the sixth 
month, from 1,000 to 1,300 cub. cent, of milk per day. A nour- 
ishment abundant in albuminoids increases especially the 
quantities of butter and sugar ; an excess of aUmentary fats 
impoverishes the milk in butter rather than increases it. An 
insufficient diet diminishes the casein and butter but not the 
sugar. The poverty of foods in albuminoids lowers the quantity 
of milk secreted and its richness in butter. 

Anaemic, cachetic, feverish or hysterical women have milk 
poor in casein and fats, and less plentiful. Suckling is neither 
good for them nor for their infants. It is well to avoid also the 



^ The same author considers human milk sugar different to that of 
cow's milk. He distinguishes it by its mode of crystallization and itf 
pweeter flavour. This remark deserves confirmation. 



78 



COW'S MILK 

milk of nurses who have undergone very violent emotion, fits 
of anger or prolonged grief. 

Cabbages, crucifers, garlic, onions, labiated plants, communi- 
cate their flavour and their odour to the milk. The addition of 
phosphate of soda to food increases the proportion of soluble 
phosphates in the serum of the milk. 

Repose of the nurse enriches her milk in butter. 

In a woman, the composition of the milk is scarcely modified 
from twenty to thirty-two years of age. After that age it con- 
tains less mineral matter. The return of the periods diminishes 
a little the lacteal secretion, but the milk is generally altered 
only at the menstrual periods ; they cause it to be slightly 
purgative. 

In the course of sharp illnesses, the lacteal secretion diminishes ; 
but for an equal quantity of milk, the casein and the salts 
increase. It is wise to avoid giving an infant the milk of a 
nurse suffering from tuberculosis. The milk of a syphilitic should 
also be prohibited. 

Woman eliminates by the milk a part of the normal or acci- 
dental principles of her sanguineous plasma ; if this is rich in 
phosphates, for example, or in lecithins, the milk will be remark- 
ably phosphorated or lecithinized. If the nurse drinks alcohol 
she will pass it by means of her milk to her nurseling, as has 
been well established by M. Nicloux. Opium, quinine, iodide 
and bromide of potassium, chloral, ether, Glauber's salts taken 
by the nurse, are also found again in the milk. Mercury, arsenic, 
salicylate of soda, antipyrin also pass into it but with greater 
difficulty. Many of the odoriferous or colouring matters of 
foods are partially eliminated with the milk. It is evident that 
the toxins and ptomaines of the sanguineous plasma of the 
mother, when she is ill, must be partially submitted to the child 
by the milk. 

The researches of Honigmarun prove that frequently human 
milk contains staphylococcus alhus and staphylococcus aureus. 
Escherich admits also that, in some cases, rs septicemia for 
example, the pathogenic microbes of the mother may pass into 
the milk. 

Cow's Milk. — This milk is white or yellowish white. Its 
casein precipitates easily at a temperature of 40° or 50° by dilute 
acetic acid. 

Water absorbed in drinking, salt, the meadow pasturage, etc., 
make the milk secreted by the cow much more abundant but a 
little more aqueous. Pollards, bran, sweetened roots, leguminous 
plants, oilcake, render it more abundant and more buttery. The 
leaf of the chestnut, barley straw, communicates some bitterness 
to it. 

In the various successive parts of the same milking, the butter 

179 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

steadily increases as well as the casein. Fatigue diminishes the 
butter in cow's milk. 

Clover, hays rich in labiated plants, aniseed, etc., give the milk 
agreeable tastes and perfume. Absinth, genista, shoots of the 
elder, artichoke, rape-seed, malt, oilcake ^ and sprouting potatoes 
communicate disagreeable and sometimes bitter flavours to it. 
The leaves of the oak render it astringent ; colchicum and 
euphorbia make it a dangerous drink. Carrot, saffron, indigo, 
mercuriales and madder communicate to it their colouring 
properties. These last milks exposed to the air become reddish, 
yellow, bluish, etc. 

If the cow is castrated during lactation, the butter of its milk 
increases by about a quarter. 

Here is a table, relative to a litre indicating the variations of 
composition of this valuable milk : 

Composition of Cow's Milk. 





Healthy 

Women of 
the Neigh- 
bourhood 
of Paris. 


Average 
(German). 


P.^t'^^nw Same Cow 
Cow milked Resting in 

ExercL. stable. 


Milk of 
200 Days. 


The Same 

Milk— 
310 Days. 


Density 


1-032 


1-033 


1-034 


1-031 


_ 


_ 


Water , . 


864-3 


857-7 


865-0 


857-0 


877-0 


868-0 


Albuminoids 


33-3 


54-0 


54-0 


49-0 


30-0 


34-0 


Sugar . 


52-8 


40-4 


38-0 


38-0 


47-0 


60-0 


Butter . 


42-0 


43-0 


37-0 


51-0 


45-0 


36-0 


Mineral salts 


7-6 


. 5-4 


6-0 


5-0 


1-0 


2-0 


Dry residue 


135-7 


142-9 


135-0 


143-0 


123-0 


132-0 




Adam 


Gonip- 


Lyon Playfair 


Bouss 


ngault 






B6sanez 




and 1 


je Bel 



GoaVs and Sheep's Milk. — Goat's milk is more creamy and 
more fragrant than that of the cow, which it resembles ; it 
curdles by rennet. Sheep's milk is rich in butter and casein and 
very nourishing. 



1 The malts are the parts of germinated barley, exhausted of their 
soluble principles. This same name is also applied to the residue of the 
expressed pulp of beetroot. Dreches, after they have begim to ferment, 
are often given to cattle. They make the milk watery and give it an 
unpleasant taste. Oilcakes are the residue of the oilpress ; they result 
from the expression while hot of the grain of colza, flax, sesame, field 
poppies, etc. This highly nitrogenous residue also contains fatty matter. 
These industrial foods modify the qualities of the milk. They often 
become more nitrogenous, more fatty, but mediocre and less agreeable. 
The oil-cake of sesame makes the butter too soft ; that of colza possesses 
a very disagreeable flavour ; the oil cake of field poppies diminishes the 
richness of the milk and gives it a special flavour. 

i8o 



ADULTERATIONS OF MILK 



Tlie following figures give the percentage composition of these 
two milks : 



Goafs MUk. 



Sheep's Milk. 



Water . 
Albuminoids 
Sugar 
Butter . 
Mineral salts 
Acidity . 



869-5 grms. 

44-3 „ 

48-5 „ 

60-7 „ 

9-1 „ 



( Average).! 
799-7 grms. 

61-8 

53-7 

74-0 

10-2 
3-7 



Dry residue per litre 



164-3 grms. 
(Ferry) 



(Average). 2 
814-4 grms. 

51-2 

52-6 

71-8 

10-2 
3-8 



200-3 grms. 185-6 grms. 

(Tillat) 



Ass's Milk : Mare's Milk. — Ass's and mare's milk singularly 
resemble human milk in their composition and the nature of 
their casein. That of the ass is a little poorer than human milk 
in butter and sugar ; it is sometimes a little richer and sometimes 
a little less rich in casein. The latter, like the casein of human 
milk, entirely digests without leaving any residue of nuclein. 
This milk is very changeable ; if it is kept after milking, it should 
be kept in a cool place and only warmed at the moment of drink- 
ing and in a water bath without sensibly exceeding 38°. For 
invalids, mare's milk can be used as a substitute for ass's milk. 
It has a preferable flavour and is still more easily digested. Here 
is the analysis of the two milks. They are calculated per litre : 



Density 

Water 

Casein and albumin 

Butter 

Sugar 

Extractive matters and salts 

Dry residue in 1,000 parts 



Ass's Milk, 
(average). 


Mare's Milk. 


1-032 


1-031 


914-0 


890 


12-3 


27 


31-0 


25 


69-3 


55 


4-5 


5 


1,031 grms. 


1,002 grms. 



CHANGES — ADULTERATIONS OF MILK. 

The milk of a cow which has calved a few days previously, 
presents some intermediary characteristics between those of 
colostrum and of perfect milk. Microscopic examination shows 
large white globules like raspberries, endowed with amyboid 
movements. The globules disappear towards the end of the 
second week. The milk is then saleable ; but it is not until the 
second month that it acquires all its qualities of sweetness, 
perfume and oiliness. 



^ Animal fed on granite soil. 



i8i 



2 Animal fed on chalky soil. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Milk, we have said, should be neutral to litmus paper. If it 
has been kept some time it may become acid and even curdle 
or " turn " when heated. This is sometimes remedied by adding 
a little carbonate of soda or lime water. 

By culture in gelatin or in some sweetened broth, it is possible 
to develop typical ferments which milk contains and which tend 
to alter it and even sometimes render it dangerous. The most 
remarkable of these microbes are : the lactic ferment, motion- 
less, aerobe from 1 to 2 p. long, which coagulates the milk and 
forms lactic acid at the expense of the milk-sugar ; the thyro- 
thrix tenuis which curdles, then rapidly liquefies the casern ; it 
is aerobic ; the T. filiformis which also peptonizes it, but less 
actively, after the manner of trypsin ; the T. distortus and 
geniculatus which transform the milk into a doubtful liquid 

containing acetate and valeri- 
anate of ammonia as well as 
leucin; the T. turpidus, an aero- 
bic ferment like the preceding, 
which liquefies the casein 
after having coagulated it, 
and produces ammonia, but- 
yric acid, leucin and tyrosin ; 
the T. urocephalum, in opera- 
tion aerobic but which, shelt- 
ered from air, liquefies the 
casein with the production of 
carbonic acid and free hydro- 
gen. In contact with it, milk 
acquires a putrid odour. The 
T. claviformis, purely anaero- 
bic ; it determines the coagu- 
lation, then the fluidification 
of the milk of which it at- 
tacks the casein and sugar with formation of peptons, alcohol, 
fatty acids, carbonic acid and hydrogen ; the T. catenula which 
modifies the milk whilst precipitating the casein and digesting its 
dissolved albumins which it changes into peptons, liberating car- 
bonic acid, hydrogen, and a little sulphuretted hydrogen ; lastly, 
the Bacillus butyricus which is killed by oxygen, but which, 
sheltered from the air transforms the milk-sugar into butyric 
acid with liberation of CO^ and H^ and dissolution of the casein.^ 
We may find accidentally in milk white and golden staphylo- 
coccus bacilli, suhtilis and several other microbes of the faeces. 

1 One has pointed out also in milk the Bacillus mesentericus vulgattis, 
the clostrydium hutyricum, some aacclmromyces, etc. ; lastly, that which is 
more serious, the microbes of typhoid fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria and 
scarlatina. 

182 




Fig. 5 — Milk Febments. — 1. Tyro- 
thrix distortus ; 2. T. virgula ; 3. T. 
urocephalimi ; 4. T. claviformis. 



ADULTERATIONS OF MILK 



The greater part of these micro-organisms, recognizable under 
the microscope after or before culture, are the agents of the 
spontaneous changes in milk and of the ripening of cheese. 

The milk of tuberculous cows presents under the microscope 
agglutinated globules, like mucus. The leucocytes are dis- 
tinguishable by their insolubility in ether, their disappearance 
under the influence of very diluted soda, their two or three 
nuclei which diluted acetic acid renders more apparent. 

Sterilization of milk with which we shall occupy ourselves 
farther on is not assured by simply boiling for a few moments ; 
certain spores can resist for several minutes 98° to 100°. But 
boiling also destroys the soluble ferments of the milk, alters 
its taste a little and even its composition, a part of the casein 
separating itself through insolubility in the state of floating mem- 
branules. Milk modifies itself then at 100°, and here is what 
would be, according to M. Ch. Girard, the composition of the 
same milk before and after being boiled : 





Before. 


After. 


Water 


882-7 
38-1 
49 
44-6 


864-5 


Butter 


44-7 


Lactin 


50 


Casein and albumin 


34-2 



We perceive that the apparent alteration affects above all 
the casein which partly disappears, without doubt, through 
becoming insoluble. 

Boiled milk, if it is more 
healthy, is therefore less nu- 
tritive and less assimilable 
than the raw. We shall 
speak farther on of steri- 
lized milk. The changes 
which milk can be volun- 
tarily submitted to are 
numerous. The principal 
one is skimming ; it con- 
sists in taking from the 
milk, either by spon- 
taneous separation, or 
by centrifugal action, the 
most buttery part and 
also the most savoury. 
Here is, according to M. 
Duclaux and M. P. Lem- 
aire, what would be the 




Fig. fi — A. Normal Milk before 
Skimming : B. After Skimming and 
the addition of 20 per cent, of water 
mixed with a little bicarbonate of soda. 



183 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

composition of pure milk, of skimmed milk and of cream, this 
last deducted in the proportion of 8 to 9 parts for every 100 
parts of milk : 

Comparative Composition of Pube and Skimmed Mh-k, 









Cream of 




The Same 


The Same 




Nonnal 


The Same 


this 


Normal 


Skimmed 


Skimmed 




Milk. 


Skimmed. 


Skimmed 
Milk 


Mak. 


afterl2 
hours. 


after 36 
houis. 


Water . 


87-25 


89-70 


58-63 


87-0 


89-8 


90-0 


Dry extract 


— 


— 


— 


12-9 


10-2 


10-0 


Buttery matters 


3-50 


0-77 


35-00 


4-36 


1-35 


0-93 


Casein . 


3-90 


4-02 


2-75 


2-7 


2-92 


3 07 


Milk-sugar . 


4-60 


4-74 


3-12 


4-98 


5-05 


5-06 


Mineral matters 


0-75 


0-77 


0-50 


0-79 


0-77 


0-80 


P203 . . . 


— 


— 


— 


0-105 


0-12 


0-12 




100-00 


100-00 
Duclaiix 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 
Lemaire 


100-00 



We see the advantage of skimmed milk in some cases, in the 
obese for example, also in the case of all those who, needing a 
milk diet, either digest badly or do not require an excess of fatty 
bodies. Milk from which the butter has been removed by churn- 
ing constitutes a very nourishing and easily digested drink. It 
is more easily kept than pure milk. 

Another adulteration of milk consists in the addition of water. 
We have observed before how it is possible to detect this adult- 
eration by determining the freezing point, which should be nor- 
mally 0"53° C. for pure milk. The density of the milk is also 
a practical and rapid means of check. The density of cow's 
milk ought not to be lower than 1029° at the temperature of 
15° C. 

Skimming and watering are the two principal adulterations 
of milk. The second is graver than the first, water added to 
milk bringing with it its living organisms, often injurious and 
rendering it at the least easily putrescible. 

Preservatiox of Milk. 

Milk left to itself rapidly becomes the prey of its ferments, 
and of the microbes of the air. It changes, becomes sour, 
coagulates and putrefies. It can besides carry with it the germs 
of various maladies : diphtheria, scarlatina, typhus of horned 
beasts, typhoid fever, etc. It was tried then to be preserved 
unchanged. 

The oldest method consists in boiling it ; the operation can 
be repeated if necessary. But heat changes the milk each time 
and does not always confer upon it a long immunity. It is 
preferable to preserve it by concentrating it. For this, the milk 
is evaporated in vacuo, mixed or not with a certain quantity of 

184 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 

sugar, to a thick consistency, then poured into metallic bottles 
which are soldered and afterwards heated in a digester. This 
condensed milk can be kept almost indefinitely.^ 

According to J. Koenig, condensed milk corresponds to the 
composition : 



Condensed Milk. 


With the addition of Sugar. 


Without Sugar.2 


Water 


26-61 


58-99 


Albuminoids 


11-79 


11-92 


Butter 


10-35 


12-42 


Lactose 


13-84 


14-49 


Saccharose (added) 


36-22 


0-00 


Ash 


2-19 


2-18 



Often milk is sterilized without evident concentration. Imme- 
diately after milking, it is filtered and pasteurized, that is to say, 
heated to 70° or 75°, then quickly cooled ; we thus confer upon 
it the power of resisting for several days spontaneous changes. 
Sometimes it is heated up to 70° with pressure of carbonic acid. 
But even in this case pasteurization does not destroy all the 
germs, particularly that of tuberculosis, the peptonizing bacteria 
of cowdung, and of the dust of houses and streets, etc. To 
obtain a complete sterilization allowing of the preservation of 
milk for several weeks, it is necessary to fill glass or metal jars 
with it. These are then heated for some minutes to 106° to 110° 
or better for one hour to 98° to 100°. If necessary the operation 
may be repeated. 

Milk sterilized at 102° still contains living spores, in particular 
those of cowdung, which they subsequently develop ; also 
sterilized milks can, after a time, become dangerous. Infantile 
scurvy or Barlow's disease, frequently noticed in the case of 
young infants nourished on sterilized milk, is due rather to the 
harmful qualities caused by its being kept too long, or by toxins 
which prevent it from being easily assimilated, than to the 
destruction of its ferments and above all to the pretended pre- 
cipitation of a little citrate of lime.^ 

If it is necessary for sterilized milks to acquire an almost 
indefinite resistance to subsequent changes ; if they have to be 

^ Another condensed milk, sterile and not sugared, is also manufactured. 
It contains 37 per cent, of dry substances, of which 10 per cent, are of pro- 
teid matter, 10 of butter and 12 of milk-sugar. Germany also makes 
peptonized milks with the addition of maltose, dextrin, albumin, albumin- 
ates, hypophosphites, phosphates, etc. These milks, condensed in vacuo, 
without sugar, after the addition of boiling water, etc., can be used to nourish 
infants in place of sterilized cow's milk. 

2 P. Cazeneuve, Sterilization of Milk, Lyons, 1895. 

•* The citrate of lime only becomes partially insoluble to heat, and it is 
too insufficient in milk for its partial precipitation to have any importance. 

185 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



sent far off into tropical countries, they are heated again up to 
1 10° two or three times in the digester at intervals of some days. 
Unfortunately, heating milk above 80° alters it somewhat seri- 
ously ; on the one hand it destroys the action of its natural 
zymases ; ^ on the other it seriously modifies the process of 
emulsion of the fats which, after this operation, tend to reunite 
themselves into clots and to float on the surface. Further, the 
casein of overheated milk is less assimilable, the lactoalbumins 
and lactoglobulins are coagulated ; finally, the milk-sugar 
becoming converted into caramel and sensibly axiidified by the 
heat, communicaites to the milk, cooked above 100°, a yellowish 
colour and a special taste. Sometimes if it is well sterilized, 
even to 106 to 112°, it is perfectly digestible by young children. 
M.Marfan rightly insists on the necessity of doing this sterilization, 
in the summer especially, immediately after the milking. It 

is not necessary indeed to leave the 
microbes of the milk sufficient time 
to secrete their toxins and other 
products of change which, once 
formed, would continue in the li- 
quid, even after the action of heat. 
Sterilization of milk can be 
done practically at home, thanks 
to the very simple apparatus of 
Soxhlet, Budin, etc. 

The milk is poured into glass 
bottles with large necks of 80 to 
120 cc. which it nearly fills (Fig. 
7). These bottles are covered by 
an indiarubber hood attached to 
the thick brim of the vessels. 
These are placed in a metal bas- 
ket which is plunged into a water 
bath with a cover in which the water rises a little above the level of 
the milk contained in the bottles. To obtain a sufficient sterili- 
zation, this water is kept boiling during 45 to 50 minutes. This 
operation can be repeated three days after, if necessary, on the 
same bottles. By cooling the steam, a vacuum is produced, 
and the india-rubber cover adhering closely to the neck of the 
bottle and incurving, as seen in Fig. 7, prevents all re-entrance of 
air and microbes. 

1 It is by the destruction of its oxydase that we can recognize that milk 
has been cooked or heated above 80°. To make an experiment characteris- 
tic of the cooking of mUk, to 10 cc. of this hquid we add 1 to 2 drops of weak 
oxygenated water, and 2 to 3 drops of a solution of 2 per cent, of chlor- 
hydrate of paraphenylendiamin. If the milk has not been warmed 
above 80°, it produces a greyish blue tint which soon turns to indigo blue. 
The milk remains white if it has been boiled. 

i86 




Fig. 7. Soxhlet's Apparatus 
FOR Sterilizing Milk at Home. 



STERILIZED MILKS 

These sterilized milks, produced in the manufactory or at home, 
render great service. They can, when really necessary, be 
substituted for maternal milk. They allow young children to 
combat with persistent diarrhoea and dysentery. Certain 
invalids who are unable to take ordinary milk, tolerate sterilized 
milk very well. It is accused, and this is a disadvantage in some 
cases, of constipating infants or invalids. It has been supposed 
that these milks provoke sometimes a sort of scurvy which had 
disappeared by substituting ass's milk or by the use of coffee or 
lemon.^ The statistics collected concerning these affirmations 
have not been well substantiated. 

In any case M. Budin does not consider it prudent to give 
sterilized milk to an infant during the first months. 

The great advantage of sterilizing milk by heat is that it 
causes its soluble ferments to disappear and especially its oxy- 
dases. It has been proposed to obtain this sterilization by the 
addition of chemical agents such as borax, salicylic acid, formol, 
oxygenized water, etc. Several objections must be raised to 
all these methods. The most general is that we cannot prove 
that the continuous use of these milks is without disadvantages, 
or that their assimilation is as easily produced as that of ordinary 
milks. The contrary has even been observed. Forster and 
Schlenker ^ have established that boracic acid diminishes the 
degree of absorbability of the albumin, stimulates the mucous 
hypersecretion of the intestine and exaggerates the elimination 
of phosphoric acid. Salicylic acid has the same disadvantages, 
even at 050 grms. per litre, a sufficient quantity to prevent the 
putrefaction of the milk. Behring, in his turn, has for some 
years proposed adding loocrTrth of formol to fresh milk. He 
writes that young calvea nourished with this milk thrive very 
well. But Trillat has made experiments which establish that 
formolized milk — even slightly so — digests badly or not at all. 

Another objection to these practices is that they do not kill 
the microbes, still less their spores, which are, as it were, asleep 
but which may be awakened in the intestine. 

Modified Milks. — Attempts have been made to give infants 
not only a milk exempt from microbes and toxins, but one 
approaching as nearly as possible in its composition, maternal 
milk. Hence these strange denominations of milks feminized 
or maternisized. They are generally obtained from cow's milk. 

Let us first remark the difference of composition in the average 
cow's milk and human milk. Calculated per litre, we have : 

1 Gaz. med. dea hopitaux, t. IX, 1903. 

2 "tJber die Verwenbarkeit der Borsaure," et?., Forster, Arch. Hygiene, 
t. II, p. 75. Milks sterilized by borax, salicylic acid, etc., are not inoffen- 
sive. 

187 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





Human Milk. 


Cow's Blilk. 


Water 


868 


857-7 


Casein and albumin . 


24-8 


34-0 


Butter 


42-8 


40-4 


Lactose 


56-9 


43-0 


Mineral salts .... 


2-0 


5-4 



858 grms 


. 23 „ 


. 39 „ 


. 52 „ 


3-6 „ 



Human milk is therefore poorer in casein and mineral salts and 
richer in sugar, than cow's milk. By an appropriate diet, one 
can obtain cow's milk nearly corresponding to the above average 
composition, but enriched in fatty bodies containing even 55 to 
60 grms. of butter per litre. These fatty milks, with the addition 
of half of their volume of a solution in water of 56 grms. of 
lactose or of saccharose per litre, then correspond with the 
following composition per litre of the mixture : 

Water 

Casein and albumin 

Butter 

Lactose 

IVIineral salts , . 

a composition which is singularly like that of human milk (Gaert- 
ner). Richt has proposed diluting cow's milk with boiled water 
(its volume or half volume) and then adding about 15 grms. per 
litre of the albumose of egg. 

Thus modified, these milks are only, it is true, a rude imitation 
of the milk of our species. They differ very sensibly by the 
nature of their casein and of their sugar (if cane sugar is used). 
But, well sterilized, they appear nevertheless to have rendered 
some real service. 

Various other preparations destined to replace human milk 
have been extolled : albuminous milks, milks with the addition 
of cream and whey, etc. Flours or dry powder, mixtures of 
milks and flour called milk foods have been made : they approach 
more or less nearly to the composition of milk, and experience 
has shown that they are readily accepted by the stomach of the 
yoimg child, at least from the sixth or eighth month, and that 
they can assist the nurse, and little by little be substituted for her. 
The best known of these preparations is obtained by adding to 
concentrated cow's milk some ordinary sugar and a powder 
which is prepared with paste of wheat, manufactured without 
salt or yeast, carefully cooked in the oven until it is transformed 
into dry and crisp flakes where the starch has been changed in a 
great measure into dextrin. This biscuit reduced in the mill 
into very fine powder, is afterwards perfectly mixed with con- 
centrated milk and the whole is dried, pulverized, sterilized and 
preserved in boxes protected from the germs of the air. This 
is a good preparation which allows weaning to take place without 
too great abruptness for the child or fatigue for the nurse, and 
which can sometimes be given to invalids. 

i88 



XVII 

DERIVATIVES OF MILK — CREAM OF MILK — WHEY — FERMENTED 
MILK — PREPARATIONS OF CASEIN — CHEESE 

MILK furnishes to alimentation a great number of deriva- 
tives : butter, cream, whey, fermented milks (koumiss 
and kephir), the alimentary powders and solutions of casein, 
cheese and the milk sugar. We are going to examine the deriva- 
tives, leaving aside for the moment the chief of them — butter — 
which we propose studying with the fatty bodies in one of the 
following chapters. 

Cream of Milk. — Cream separates, owing to its lesser density, 
from milk left at rest or centrifugalized. It rises slowly to the 
surface of milk left by itself. It is collected by skimming. 
Churning easily transforms it into butter, but the butter is not 
solely composed of cream. Cream contains besides fat bodies, 
casein, a few lecithoproteids, lactalbumin, and a good portion 
of matters which remain in suspension in the primitive milk 
(microbes, ferments, phosphatic and other granulations) drawn 
along by the rising of the butter. The composition of cream is 
very variable ; here are two extreme analyses of it : 



Water 


. 617 . 


. 733 


Butter 


. 320 . 


. 180 


Casein 


. 27 . 


40 


Lactose . 


31 . 


40 


Ash 


5 . 


7 



1,000 



1,000 



We see that cream is an aliment very rich in butter and very 
poor in casein. It is very difficult to digest if consumed in large 
quantities, it is unhealthy if the original milk has not been 
properly collected or if it comes from unhealthy cows. Cream 
is very changeable by reason of the microbes of the milk which 
it collects and which abound in it, and are reproduced owing to 
a sweet serum rich in phosphates, which it contains interposed 
between its fatty globules. Also, in summer especially, the 
cream spoken of as " whipped," has often been the cause of 
serious complaints. 

The milk from which the cream has separated and risen natur- 

189 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



ally to the surface, is called skimmed milk. It contains about a 
fifth of the fatty matters of the original natural milk, but almost 
the whole of the other substances is found there. 

Whey. — The term whey is often applied either to a clear or 
opalescent liquid which remains when milk is coagulated by 
spontaneously turning sour, or to that which results from the 
caseification of milk by rennet. This causes confusion and it is 
desirable to distinguish between these two liquids. The whey 
from caseification, the true whey, contains a proteose resulting 
from the division of the caseogen by the casease. This proteose 
does not exist in whey from acidification. In both liquids we 
find also the lactalbumins and lactoglobulins of the original milk 
(about 1 per cent, of the liquid), also some very small quantities 
of other organic matters (urea, alcohol, lactic acid, derivatives 
of lecithins, very active oxidizing and hydrolyzing ferments, 
etc.). Finally, whey contains the whole of the sugar and mineral 
salts of milk, with the exception, however, of the earthy phos- 
phates, the greater part of which is carried away by the cream, 
or is left in the coagulated casein. 

The composition of whey, per litre, is as follows : 





W. Fleischmann. 
(Cow's MUk). 


Lehmann. 
(Goat's MUk). 


Water 

Albuminoids .... 

Fats 

Milk-sugar 

Lactic acid, etc. . 
Mineral matters . 


933-0 grms. 
10-5 „ 

1 
44 
3-3 „ 

8-2 „ 


937-70 grms. 
5-80 „ 
0-20 „ 
49-70 „ 

6-60 „ 



It is a liquid slightly nutritive by its albuminoids, its lactose 
and its phosphates ; diuretic and a little laxative by its sugar 
and salts. It is particularly useful when it is important to 
free the system from its nitrogenous residue more or less toxic : 
affections of the liver, stubborn constipation, infectious diseases, 
etc. The "whey cure," formerly very much in vogue, is practic- 
ally abandoned now, perhaps because of the difficulty there was 
of being certain that the milk serum came only from healthy and 
well-kept cows. It is, however, necessary to remark that the 
infectious agents which jnay be found in the milk which furnishes 
whey, are in a very great measure, if not entirely, carried off at 
the moment of coagulation and remain in the curd. 

Butter-milk. — This name is given to a liquid left by the churn- 
ing of the cream of milk or of milk itself when the butter has been 
extracted from it. It has, in these two cases, very nearly the 
same composition. It is as follows, according to Lam, compared 
with that of the corresponding milk and calculated for 100 
parts ; 

190 



MILK DERIVATIVES 



Dry residue (average) . 

Butter 

Casein and lactalbumin 
Lactine or milk-sugar 



Cow's Milk. 



11-8-13-7 grins. 
2-8- 1-7 „ 
5-4 



Butter-milk. 



8- 7-9- 8 grms. 
0-5-0-9 „ 
2-5-2-7 „ 



404 „ ! 3-a-3-5 



Butter-milk is far poorer in fat than milk. It also appears 
poorer in casein, which is probably partly coagulated owing to 
the acidification of its centre and is carried away with the cream. 
Thus butter-milk is far from possessing the composition of 
skimmed mOk. It is most often acidified by the lactic acid of 
fermentation. It is recommended, mixed or otherwise, with 
cereal decoctions, for the alimentation of athrepsic children. It 
is generally used sterilized and sweetened. We shall revert to 
this subject (G. Jacobson, "Alimentation of Infants," Arch, de 
med. des enfants, February, 1903. See also Teixeira de Mattos, 
Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., January 1902). 

Koumiss ; Kephir ; Yaotjrt 

Koumiss. — This name is given to the product of lacto-alcoholic 
fermentation of mare's milk. Koumiss had long been used only 
in the steppes of Southern Russia and Tartary. But for some 
years it has also been made in Northern Russia and even in Ger- 
many for the needs of invalids. The Tartars for making koumiss, 
mix 10 volumes of fresh and tepid mare's milk with 1 volume of 
previously prepared koumiss and which contributes its own special 
ferment. This mixture is put into an upright cask which is placed 
in the fresh air, in summer, and not far from a stove in winter. 
From time to time the mixture is stirred with a stick. At the end 
of two or three hours, bubbles of gas begin to appear ; a rather 
intense lactic fermentation, afterwards alcoholic, originates in 
the mass ; the liquid acidifies and becomes alcoholic. If it has 
to be kept for some time, it is advisable, at the end of the first 
five or six hours of fermentation, to put it in strong and wired 
bottles which are kept in the fresh air. After some days, a foam- 
ing emulsioned liquid is obtained, of a taste at once acid and 
sweet, slightly recalling almond milk, stimulating the appetite, 
facilitating digestion and very slightly intoxicant. 

In new koumiss, the casein in very thin flakes becomes half 
dissolved if water is added to it. Later on this casein dissolves 
either under the action of lactic acid or by partial peptonization. 
As a matter of fact one finds in koumiss from 4 to 10 grms. of pepton 
per litre. 

•jft^^Casein thus rendered soluble must not be confounded with 
lactalbumin, 

191 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Here are some analyses of koumiss due to Wieth, and in com- 
parison with them, the composition of the mare's milk which has 
been used to make it : 





1 




Koumiss per litre. 






1 Primitive 
Mare's Milk. 










Of 1 day. 


Of 8 days. 


Of 21 days. 


Water . 


901-6 


918-7 


923-8 


924-2 


Alcohol . 


0-0 


31-9 


32-6 


32-9 


Fats 


10-9 


11-7 


11-4 


12-0 


Casein . 


V 


8-0 


8-5 


7-9 


Albumins 


Y 18-9 


1-5 


3-0 


3-2 


Peptones 


J 


10-4 


5-9 


7-6 


Sugar . 


66-5 


3-9 


0-9 


0-0 


Lactic acid 


— 


9-6 


10-3 


10-0 


Soluble salt 


s . 0-8 


10 


1-2 


1-2 


Insoluble sa 


Its . 2-3 


2-3 


2-2 


2-3 



Koumiss contains alcohol in the same degree as small beer. 
Its peptones, casein and its easily assimilated fats, considering 
their origin and extreme division, make of it a liquid at once 
nutritive, aperient and exciting. Some zymases are found in it 
analogous to those in the juice of fresh meat. 

Unfortunately we cannot easily procure good koumiss in 
France. 

Kephir. — An alcoholic and sparkling preparation very similar 
to koumiss is made by the inhabitants of the Caucasian moun- 
tains and the Tartars, with the milk of their cows and sheep. 
The fermentation of this milk is provoked, in this case, by a 
specific agent which bears the name of kephir and has been 
handed down from Mahomet, who was its protagonist. This 
ferment is sold in the form of irregular pellets of the size of a 
millet seed, welded together, granular and whitish yellow. Under 
the microscope two small organisms are discovered : the one is 
a special alcoholic yeast, the Saccharomyces mycoderma ; the 
other is a bacterium, the Dispora caucasica, which appears to play 
the part of partially peptonizing the casein. 

To prepare this liquid the inhabitants of the Caucasus pour the 
milk of their cows and sheep into leathern bottles, add the kepliir 
powder diluted with a little lukewarm water and leave it at a 
moderate temperature, stirring it from time to time. After one 
or two days the preparation is consumed or put into bottles. 
On the residue remaining in the bottle they pour some fresh milk, 
and so on. 

Kepliir very much resembles koumiss ; like the latter it is 
acidulated by lactic acid, but it is less alcoholic and less well 
peptonized. The following are the analyses, according to 
Hammarsten, relating to one litre of kephir two days old : 

192 



KEPHIR, YAOURT 



Water 






. 882-6 








890-9 


Alcohol 






70 








6-8 


Lactic acid 






81 








6-0 


Sugar 






27-8 








29-0 


Fat bodies 






53-5 








310 


Casein 






29-8 








27-4 


Lactalbumin 






2-8 








1-7 


Peptones 
Salts 






05 
7-9 








0-7 
6-5 



Thus, in kephir, a small part of the lactose of milk has been 
transformed into alcohol and carbonic acid, another part into 
lactic acid. A small portion of the casein has been peptonized. 
Moreover, the agents of this fermentation of milk have poured 
their diastases into the liquid. 

Kephir can change, become sour and stringy, etc. 

There are several kinds of kephir, according to the method 
and time of fermentation. 

Kephir has been prescribed in cases of apepsia, vomitings of 
pregnancy, tuberculosis and chronic enteritis. It is an excitant 
of the stomach and an agent of assimilation. It increases the 
amount of excreted urea, and diminishes the uric acid and urin- 
ary acidity. It is, like koumiss, contra-indicated in cases of 
hemorrhage, plethora, and in renal, vesical and cardiac affections. 

Yaourt. — This is a preparation of curdled milk which is 
obtained in the East by boiling the milk of cows, sheep, or goats on 
an open fire, concentrating it to about one-third and pouring it 
into bowls placed in a very hot place where under a large surface 
the milk still loses water and forms a skin. It is left to cool to 
38 or 40° and then a little of the yaourt of the previous day 
is poured, or rather injected under the skin which has formed 
without breaking it. Four to five hours later a creamy curd is 
obtained which becomes solid and can be turned over without 
running out. 

It is an acidulated aliment, very substantial and easily digested 
once one has become used to it. It can be kept for four or five 
days, but it quickly becomes sour. It is diuretic and antidysen- 
teric. When care has been taken to remove its upper and most 
creamy part, it is easier still to digest. In the East it is mixed 
with a number of other foods. It can be differently flavoured, 
sugared or salted. 

Alimentary Derivatives of Casein. 

Everything pointed to the fact that the principal albuminoid 
of milk — casein — which remains when butter is prepared, would 
attract the attention of hygienists and clinicians and become the 
foremost material of industrial preparations destined for the 
food of invalids, children, weak people, etc. Indeed, this casein, 
which has the composition of muscular tissue, scarcely produces 

193 o 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



during digestion either residues or toxins. It has been applied 
in therapeutics, especially at the instance of Salkowski, Berlin. 

He at first advised a soluble preparation, eucasin, obtained in 
separating by acids the casein of skimmed and centrifugalized 
milk, and redissolving it in the feeblest possible proportion of 
diluted ammonia. This substance and numerous analogous 
preparations {tropon, sanatogen, plasmon, nutrase, etc.) all con- 
taining, like casein from which they are principally formed, 
more or less nucleins, phosphates and different salts, seem to 
have very nearly the same alimentary value and to fulfil the same 
indications. The following are some summary analyses : — 



, 


Tropoa. 


Plasmon. 


Kutrase. 


Eucasin. 


Albuminoid matters . 


90 


77-3 


85 


80 


Milk-sugar .... 


— 


2-8 


— 


— 


Fats 


— 


1-3 


1 


2 


Extractive matters . 


— 


11 


— 


— 


Water 


9 


113 


1 - 


20 


Mineral salts .... 


1 


6-2 



Another preparation of the same origin, eidactol, contains 
not only the albuminoids of milk but its sugar and fats. It is a 
sort of condensed skim milk (albuminoids, 28 per cent. ; fats, 
44 per cent. ; lactose, etc., 46 per cent.). 

All these nutritive substances being nearly without taste 
can easily be consumed, either alone or mixed with other aliments. 
But it is necessary that they should be freshly prepared as often 
as possible ; the small amount of butter they contain will end 
by turning them rancid in oxidizing in the air. Fresh, they have 
the advantage of introducing into the system very few indigesti- 
ble residues, and, what is important, few materials suitable for 
transformation into extractive biliary or urinary matters. From 
this last point of view, especially, the preparations of casein have 
a real dietetic interest. One must not forget, however, that 
casein in its different forms of non-fermented cheese (white 
cheese, Neufchatel cheese, cream cheese, etc., of which we are 
now going to speak) can replace them and sometimes with 
advantage. 

Cheese comes from the curdling of milk, more or less skimmed. 
It is formed essentially by its casein which, passing to the insolu- 
ble state under the influence of rennet, draws along with it, while 
coagulating, a part of the fatty bodies, of the lecithoproteids and 
salts. The curdling of milk is obtained by means of the rermet 
of the young calf, or by an infusion in fresh warm water of the 
dried-up testicles of this animal. 

194 



CHEESE 

The distinction between the different kinds or groups of 
cheeses is of great importance to the hygienist and physician. 

Tliey ought to be divided into cooked cheese and fresh cheese. 
In their turn, they may be fermented, salted or non-salted, thin 
or fat. These latter come from non-skimmed milks. 

Cooked cheese always keeps for a long time. It is obtained 
generally with the milk of the cow. The principal are those of 
Gruyere or Emmenthaler, of Parmesan and of Bresse. The 
curd fat or semi-fat, coming from the action of rennet on milk 
more or less skimmed, is cooked first, then submitted to a good 
pressure which clears away the interposed serum, finally, 
put into loaves which are covered on the surface with salt and 
which are left for a long time in cellars where the cheese ripens. 
Their paste always remains acidulated. 

Cooked and non-fermented cheeses render great service in 
the alimentation of invalids. They afford variety in their 
regime and possess nearly all the advantages of milk, whilst 
often proving easier of digestion. 

Raw cheeses with strongly salted paste are those of Holland, 
Cantal and Chester, made with cows' milk ; and the cheese of 
Roquefort and Sassenage made with sheeps' milk mixed with 
that of the she-goat. Dutch cheese is obtained from non-skimmed 
cows' milk ; the curdle of this milk coloured with arnotto, pressed 
and coated with salt, is drained as much as possible of its brine, 
then it is compressed in the form of round loaves and kept in an 
aerated drying room where it ripens, that is to say where it under- 
goes the slow action of its natural diastases. It is then rubbed 
with litmus in hags which gives it its pretty red colour. 

Fresh Cantal contains, two days after it is made, 20 per cent, 
of casein and 4'1 per cent, of albumin. When it is ripe, 
not more than 12 to 13 per cent, of casein is found ; on the other 
hand, 7 to 10 per cent, of its albuminous matters have been 
peptonized by the ferment of the original milk. 

Roquefort cheese is made from a mixture of the very fat milk 
of the sheep and she-goat. Salts and specially suitable ferments 
are introduced into its curds, particularly a mould, the Peni- 
cilium glaucum which is cultivated on crumb of bread and which 
in developing forms in this cheese its greenish belts. During 
the ripening, the air is made to penetrate into the interior of the 
mass by piercing it through and through at different points with 
the aid of knitting needles. Finally, the mass completes its 
ripening in subterranean cellars in which the temperature is 
maintained all the year round below 9° or 10°. 

The principal cooked non-salted cheeses are those of Brie, 
Coulommiers, Gerardmer, Normandy, Brittany, Pont-Leveque, 
Camembert, Livarot, Mont-Dor e, etc. This last is prepared with she- 
goat's milk. Brie cheese is made from cow's milk that has been 

195 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

submitted to rennet at 35° ; the curd which result from it first 
pressed in the hand, is placed in a kind of basket, large and 
shallow, where it is pressed and drained with care. It is then 
rubbed with salt and kept for several days. Finally, it is heaped 
up in casks in a fresh and dry place, a bed of straw being placed 
between each cheese. It is now that it improves owing to the 
mould which develops on the surface. 

Fresh, non-fermented cheeses are made with cow's milk. They 
comprise cheese a la pie (fresh white), made with skim milk, and 
the fatty cheeses of Savoy, Gournay, Viry, Switzerland or Neuf- 
chatel. They contain from 50 to 60 per cent, of water. They are 
rich in fatty matters. 

In the ripening of cheese, a part of the casein is peptonized, as 
we have said, at the same time as leucins and tyrocins, etc., are 
formed, and often carbonate of ammonia, at least on the surface. 
A part of the casein is even transformed into a coagulable sub- 
stance by heat (Duclaux). At the same time very sapid and 
odorous products appear which give to each kind of cheese its 
aroma and taste. They vary with the nature of the micro- 
organisms which slowly bring about the ripening of the curd ; 
the secret of the cheese-maker consists in retaining the best pos- 
sible of those cryptograms which he has recognized as being the 
most fit to develop the special taste of these preparations, and to 
stop the intervention of harmful agents, of vibrios in particular. 

During the ripening, the milk-sugar in fermenting, the fats in 
being partially saponified under the influence of special ferments 
and of surrounding diastases, yield glycerine, alcohol ^ and fatty 
acids which are saturated by the amines and ammonia formed 
at the same time. The fatty matter changes thus little by little 
into compounds soluble in alcohol and carbon disulphide which 
potash distends and gelatinizes, and which absorb slowly the 
oxygen by colouring in the air. 

The tables on the following page give the composition of the 
most valued cheeses. 

Cheeses are excellent adjuvants of food. They are also pep- 
togenic and stimulants of the digestion. It has been stated that 
they increase the percentage utilization of the albumin absorbed, 
and that they aid the assimilation of fats and carbo-hydrates. 
Cooked cheeses as Emmenthaler, Parmesan, etc., may add to 
our daily alimentation an important contribution of easily assimil- 
able nitrogenous matters ; they can be partially substituted for 
milk in the milk diet. But the fermented cheeses of strong 
taste (Roquefort, Gorgonzola, Munster) are not accepted by all 
stomachs and could not be substituted for milk, nor, as a rule, 
given to invalids. 

^ The tvoQ^s of alcohol in Roquefort are larger. 
196 



I 



CHEESE 

Percentage Composition of the Principal Cheeses. 





Emmen- 












thalen or 


Parmesan 


Chester. 


Cantal of 


Dutch 




Gruyfire 


(average). 


8 months.i 


(average). 




(average). 










Water .... 


34-68 


31-80 


35-92 


36-26 


36-60 


Casein .... 


31-41 


41-19 


25-99) 




28-21 


Albumin 


— 


— 


— I 


24-59 


— 


Matters soluble in 


113 


1-18 


7-50J 




2-50 


boiling water 












Fatty bodies . 


28-93 


19-52 


26-2 


34-70 


27-83 


Soluble mineral 


] 






2-23 




salts 2 


I 3-85 


6-31 


4.16 




I 4-86 


Insoluble mineral 








2-22 




salts 












Authors 


Miiller 


J. Koenig 


Payen 


Duclaux 


Payen ; 
Mayer 





Roquefort 


Gorgonzola 


Camembert 


Brie 


Neufchatel 
(called 

Swiss). 




(2 mos.). 


(average). 


(average). 


(average). 


Water .... 


19-30 


37-72 


51-30 


49-79 


37-87 


Casein . . . \ 
Albumin . . / 


43-28 


25-91 


19-00 


18-97 


17-43 


Matters soluble in 


1-50 


0-23 


3-50 


0-83 





boiling water 












Fatty bodies . 


32-30 


32-14 


21-50 


25-87 


41-30 


Mineral salts . 


4-45 


4-00 


4-70 


4-54 


3-40 


Authors . 


Blon- 


J. 


Mala- 


Various 


Malagutti 




de an 


Koenig 


gutti 


authors 





1 The curd from which Cantal cheese is obtained contains, according to 
Duclaux: water, 40' 70 ; fats, 30'10; casein, 200; coagulable albumin, 
4' 10 : matter soluble in warm water, 430 ; salt, 080. 

2 These soluble salts are principally formed of alkaline phosphates ; 
the insoluble of phosphate of lime, with a little magnesia, oxide of iron 
and of silicon. 



197 



XVIII 



EGGS AND MILTS — FATTY BODIES 

IN terminating the history of the derivatives of milk, it re- 
mains to speak of butter, but we will defer the study of it 
to the end of the chapter so as not to separate it from the other 
fatty bodies. First, in order to complete the description of the 
aliments furnished by the animal world, we wiU occupy our- 
selves with eggs and milts. 

Eggs. 

Eggs of the gallinaceous tribe, especially those of the hen, 
enter, as one knows, into a large part of domestic food. Paris 
alone consumes more than 500,000,000 of eggs per year.^ 

A hen's egg weighs on an average 60 grms., thus more than 
30,000 tons of eggs are consumed yearly. 

The egg is composed of its shell (with its shell membrane), of 
white or albumin and of the yolk. 

These three principal parts are in the case of the hen's egg, 
in the following average weights : — 





Average Weight. 








For 100 parts. 


Shell 

Albumin 

Yolk 


7-2 grms. 
35-4 „ 
17-4 „ 

60-0 grms. 


for 8 


tn 


egg 


12 
59 
29 

. 100 



The albumin or white of the egg is essentially formed of a 
proteid material, ovalbumin, mixed with a little ovoglobulin, 
another soluble albuminoid by virtue of the alkaline salts of 
the white, and of a weak proportion of a proteid material analo- 
gous to fibrinogen {A. Gautier), a substance which, like the 
latter, coagulates by agitation. These three proteid bodies, 
mixed with an excess of water, are contained in little cells formed 
by the small membranules which divide and enclose the albumin. 

1 538,000,000 of eggs or 32,000,000 of kgs. were declared by the 
octroi of Paris in 1900. 

198 



THE EGG 

It is known that, raised to 70° or 80°, the albumin of the egg 
coagulates and becomes white, opaque and insoluble. 
Its average composition is as follows : — 



Water . . . , . 








85-5 


Albuminoid matters . 








11-8 


Membranules (about) . 








10 


Extractives .... 








03 


Glucose ..... 








05 


Fats 








025 


Mineral matters 








061 



1000 



A hundred parts of mineral matters left by incineration of 
the white of egg contain, according to Poleck and Weber : — 



NaCl 


9,16-14-07 


Magnesia . 


1-60- 3-17 


KCl ... 


4 1-29-42- 17 


Oxide of Iron . 


0-44- 0-55 


Soda (not united with 




P205 


4-83- 3-79 


CI) . . . 


23-04-16-09 


S03 . . 


. 2-63- 1-32 


Potash „ „ „ , 


, 2-36- 115 


Si02 


0-49- 2-04 


Lime 


1-74- 2-79 


C02 


. 11-60-11-52 



In the ashes of white of egg we notice its richness in potassium, 
the existence of alkaline carbonates coming in part from the 
pre-existing carbonates, in part from the decomposition of the 
albuminates ; the preponderance of magnesia over lime, and the 
presence of iron and silica, the latter in a relatively very large 
quantity. 

The yolk of egg is essentially composed of fatty matters of 
which some are nitrogenous and phosphorous, the lecithins, and 
of special albuminous substances, vitelline and nucleo-proteids, 
which remain insoluble when the yolk is treated with a mixture 
of water and ether. The vitelline is separated from the nucleo- 
proteids by means of slightly salted water which dissolves it. 
It has the property of splitting up under the influence of warm 
water into a coagulated albuminoid material (75 per cent.) and 
lecithin (25 per cent.). With regard to the nucleo-proteids, 
which are not dissolved by the solution of salt, their digestion 
by the gastric juice shows that they are formed of albuminoids 
free from phosphorus and of cytoproteids and nucleo-proteids, 
richly phosphorated. The yellow of egg is then an abundant 
source of assimilable phosphorus. 

By the side of these proteids of vitelline, it is necessary to 
point out the hematogen of Bunge, a material rich in organic 
iron destined to furnish this element to the blood of the new 
being. 

The fatty matters of yolk of egg are formed of a mixture of 
olein and margarine with a small quantity of lecithins, of choles- 
terin, etc. These lecithins of which, in a free or combined state, 
an egg contain up to 2 grms., are complex nitrogenous matters 

199 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



formed by the association of phosphoric acid, fatty acids, gly- 
cerine and neurinic bases. They play an important part in the 
assimilation of the phosphorus. According to the observations 
of different authors, but which have been contested, they even 
stimulate assimilation in general. 

In the case of fish in the spawning season, the lecithins appear 
in abundance in the eggs, while on the contrary the muscular 
masses disappear. 

The percentage average composition of the yolk of egg is as 
follows : — 



Water .... 

Albuminoids 

Fatty substances 

Soluble non-nitrogenous matters 

Salts .... 



51 03 

1612 

31-39 

0-48 

101 



In the 31-39 per cent, of fatty substances in the yellow of egg 
we find 8-43 of lecithins and 0-30 of cerebrin. The egg also 
contains a little glucose and two colouring materials, soluble in 
cold alcohol ; the one free from iron which appears to resemble 
the biliary bodies, the other more ferruginous which resembles 
hematoidin. The following is the percentage composition of the 
yolk of hen's egg : — 





Gobley. 


Schtitzenberger. 


Water 

Vitelline and other proteid matters . 

Soluble albumin 

Insoluble membranes 

Margarine and olein 

Cholesterin 

Lecithins 

Cerebrin 

Alkaline chlorides and sulphates 

Ammoniacal salt 

Phosphates of lime and magnesia 
Colouring matters (with iron) .... 
Glucose 


51-49 
} 15-76 

21-30 ^ 
0-44 1 
8-43 1 
0-30 ; 
0-277 ) 
0-034 \ 
1-022 j 

} 0-553 


48-55 
13-93 

2-84 
0-46 

31-85 
1-52 



If we now calculate the nutritious materials contained in an 
egg weighing on an average 60 grms. (with its shell), we shall 
have in useful materials : — 



Organic Matter of a Hen's Eqg. 
Albimainoids of the wliite . . . ... 4-5 1 

Vitellines, nucleo-albumins of the yolk ^ . . .2-61 

Fats of the yolk 4-1 1 

Lecithins ......... l-5j 



12-7 grms. 



1 Of which lecithins by decomposition =0-5 grms. 
an egg =2 grms. 

200 



Total lecithins for 



EGGrS 
For 100 parts of egg without its shell, we shall have : — 





Hen. 


Duck. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters 

Fats 

Non-nitrogenous substances . 
Mineral salts 


73-67 

12-55 

12-11 

0-55 

M2 


71-11 
12-24 
15-49 

1-16 



By reason of its albumins, fats, phosphorated organic bodies 
and its iron, an egg, like muscular tissue and even more so than 
the latter, is suitable for providing a young animal with the 
materials essential to the formation of its blood, muscles and 
nervous tissues. Thus, fresh eggs, boiled or buttered, form an 
aliment essentially assimilable, reparative and easily digested.^ 

The shell of the egg is porous. It has been recognized that 
it allows some microbes or spores of mould to pass through, 
after being kept a long time. It is also known that the odorous 
materials and vapours pass through it easily, and can transmit 
to the egg their defects or their qualities. 

Eggs of Fish. 
They compose a very small part of ordinary food ; the follow- 
ing is the composition of carp's and chad's eggs for 100 parts : — 





Carp (Gobley). 


Chad (0. Atwater). 


Water . . . . . . 


64-08 


72-1 


Vitellin 


14-06 


23-4 


Fats 


2-57 


3-8 


Cholesterin .... 


0-27 





Lecithins 


3-05 





Extractive matter 


0-39 





Membrane and envelope . 


14-53 





Colouring matter and iron 


0-031 





Mineral salts .... 


0-82 


1-6 



Caviare is much eaten in the North of Europe ; it is formed of 
slightly salted eggs of the sturgeon, and of some other big fish. 

It is composed on an average, according to the analysis of 
Payen, Lidow and Stiitzer, as follows : — 

Water, 43-89 ; nitrogenous matter 30-79 ; fatty substances, 
15-66 ; organic non-nitrogenous matter, 1-67 ; mineral salts, 
8-09 per cent, (with 6 parts of ordinary salt added). 

It is a very phosphorated and exciting substance which con- 

1 It has been possible to make preparations of fresh eggs dried in vacuo. 
They only contain 6 to 7 per cent, of water (Effner). 

201 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



valescents and those suffering from gastralgia support remarkably 
well. 

" La boutargue," (des Proven^aux) is a condiment highly 
appreciated, composed of the eggs of the mullet, preserved in 
their natural membrane and dried in the sun. 

Milt. 

By the side of the eggs of fish, one must mention their milts 
(seminal fluid of male fishes) which are richer than fish eggs in 
nitrogen, and in organic phosphorated substances. 

In the ripe milt of the salmon, Miescher found after dessi- 
cation : — 

Protamins 26 76 

Nucleins 48-68 

Albumins or Nucleoalbumins ..... 10-32 

Lecithins ........ 7-47 

Cholesterins . . . . . . . .2-24 

Fatty substances . . . . . . .4-53 

The protamines of Miescher, which largely enter into these 
alimentary products, are bases which Kossel considers like the 
most simple albuminoid matters. In uniting themselves to the 
nucleinic acids they form chromatines, the principal phosphor- 
ated substances of cellular nuclei. 

The milts of fish are perhaps the most nutritive aliment and 
at the same time the richest in phosphorus that is known. 

Fatty Bodies — Fats and Oils. 

Whether they are borrowed from the animal or vegetable 
kingdom, the analogy of constitution prevents the separation 
of butters, fats and oils. The study of them will serve us as a 
transitory stage to pass from animal ahments to those furnished 
to us by plants. 

We know that fatty bodies are formed by mixtures, in variable 
proportions, of different fatty principles mutually dissolvent 
(Chevreul). These fatty principles are all true ethers resulting 
from the union of a like alcohol, glycerine with three mole- 
cules of fatty acid or the isologs of these fatty acids (butyric, 
stearic, margaric . . . oleic acids, etc.) with elimination of three 
molecules of water. 

The butyrin, margarin, stearin and olein of our fats can 
in their turn be split up by hydrolysis and made to give back, 
thanks to the action of the water assisted by alkalies or saponi- 
fying ferments, the glycerine and fatty acid of which they contain 
the radicals. For example : — 

/OC*H'0 /OH 

C^H^^-OC^H^O + 3H20 = C^H^^-OH + 3C*H70,OH 
^OCH'O \0H 

Butyrin of butter Glycerine Butyric acid 

202 



FATTY BODIES 

Along with these properly called fatty principles, we can 
find in the fats and oils a small quantity of free fatty acids 
and some phosphorated bodies, colorants, odorants, etc. The 
usual fats and oils all have a very analogous percentage compo- 
sition :— C - 76 to 77 ; H = 11 to 12 ; = 11 to 13 per cent. 

The tables which I have already given (p. 115 and following) 
show the amount of fat in the principal foods. Fat meats can 
contain (although very exceptionally) as much as 30 and 35 per 
cent, of their weight of it : lean meats from 1 to 6 per cent. ; 
brains 15 to 17 per cent. The vegetable aliments also furnish 
it in very variable proportions ; almonds, nuts, hazel nuts, 
cocoa as much as 50 and 67 per cent. ; cereals and vegetables in 
grains from 18 to 6*5 per cent. ; rice 0-8 ; green vegetables from 
015 to 0-4 ; potatoes 015 per cent. Putting aside for the 
moment butter, of which we shall treat later, the principal 
comestible animal fats are : — 

The fats of beef, mutton and pork are rich in stearin in the 
inner parts of the animal, in palmitin and olein in the outside 
parts and the skin. They have the average composition : — 





Beef Fat. 


Mutton Fat. 


Pork Fat. 


Water . . . 
Membranes . 
Fat bodies . 
Ash ... . 


9-96 
1-16 

88-88 
Traces 


10-48 

1-64 

87-88 

Traces 


6-44 

1-35 

92-21 

Traces 



They contain in oleic and solid fatty acids combined, the follow- 
ing quantities for 100 parts : — 





Liquid Acida. 


Solid Fat Acids. 


Points of Fusion. 


Beef fat . . . 
Mutton fat . 
Pork fat . . 
Goose fat 


31 
15 

49 
62 


64 
80 
41 
31 


41°-49° 

42°-50° 
33° 
25° 



The fat of goose and duck fusible at 24° or 26° is rich in 
butyrin and caproin. 

The oils of fish in our climate are used more as medicines 
than aliments ; but the Esquimaux and Greenlanders consume 
them largely. In Russia, sturgeon oil is collected, melted and 
salted for use in the kitchen. 

Cod liver oil is extracted from the livers of different Gadus 
which are left to themselves until by reason of a diastasic fer- 
ment which is produced in them, the oil separates out and swims 

203 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

on the surface. It is also extracted directly by heating these 
livers in water or steam. Its density is 0-924. Besides the 
ordinary fatty bodies it contains some lecithins, some phospho- 
rated and iodized substances, and some bases analogous to 
ptomaines. Dolphin's oil, which is used for imitations, is 
formed chiefly of trivalerine. 

The principal oils and fats furnished by vegetables are the 
following : — 

Olive oil obtained by pounding, with heat, the ripe food of 
the oUve. Its density is 0-916 at 15°, It congeals at +2°. This 
oil is a greenish yellow, very fluid and of sweet taste. It is 
chiefly formed of olein and margarin with a little stearin. 

Colza oil is extracted from the seeds of Brassica campestris. 
It sohdifies at -6°-2. Density 0-913 at 15°. It is especially 
useful as lamp oil. 

Rape-seed oil is extracted from the seeds of turnip-cabbage 
and turnip-radish. Density 0-915 at 15°. 

Poppy oil is extracted from the seeds of Papaver somniferum. 
It solidifies at -18°. Its density is 0-925 at 15°. It is the oil 
which is vulgarly called white oil, although it is slightly yellow. 
It is often used as a substitute for olive oil on our tables. 

Cotton oil, almost colourless, is extracted from the cotton plant 
and also used as a substitute for olive oil. 

Oils of nuts and sweet almonds are also comestible. The 
first fluid, colourless, with a slight odour, easily grows rancid 
and has a density of 0-026 at 15°. It solidifies at -27°. 

The alimentary fats and oils, after having been emulsioned 
and partly saponified in the intestines, are afterwards trans- 
formed, at least in a very large proportion, whilst traversing 
the intestinal walls, into the specific fats proper to each animal. 
However, by amply nourishing a dog with oil-cakes or seeds of 
colza which contain the glycerine of erucic acid C^^H^^O^, a body 
entirely foreign to the tissues of this animal, Munk found again 
in its fats a certain proportion of this acid. Evidently, 
abundantly absorbed in the intestines, it had not had time to 
undergo completely the transformation into specific fatty prin- 
ciples proper to the canine species. 

Fatty bodies are useful in the preparation of our aliments, but 
their absolute necessity as ahments has not been demonstrated. 
They can result, in fact, from the division of the albuminoids 
in the system and especially from the sugars and carbo-hydrates 
by loss of C02 and H^O : 13C«H"0« = C^«H'°^0« + 2300^ + 26H20. 
Glucose. Fatty bodies. 

In fact, two or three hours after a repast rich in starch and 
sugars, the quantity of carbonic acid gas expired and perspired 
increases considerably and in larger proportion than that of 
the oxygen absorbed in the same time (Hanriot). We have 

204 



BUTTER 



seen (p. 56) that, of all the aliments, fats are those which, in 
the most feeble weights, introduce into the system the maximum 
of latent strength. Fats, like sugar and starch, are intended to 
provide the necessary energy for mechanical work and calorifi- 
cation. Fatty bodies being those of all the combustible princi- 
ples stored in our tissues which disappear the first and the most 
easily, may be considered as foods " sparing " the albuminoids. 
However their action is less from this point of view than that of 
the carbo-hydrates ; but we have said that, whatever be their 
relative abundance, ternary bodies could not entirely prevent 
the disintegration of the nitrogenous principles. 

Fats and oils can be consumed in large quantities in very cold 
climates. 

Butter. 

Butter is separated from the milk by skimming and churn- 
ing. Besides the ordinary fatty bodies, viz., olein, palmitin, 
stearin, it contains butyrin, caproin and caprylin and even a 
certain quantity of casein and traces of other albuminoids which 
the fatty globules carry away along with them ; we also find 
some interposed water holding in solution lactose and salts 
borrowed from the serum of the milk. In solidifying, butter 
carries with it in a very large proportion, the microbic and 
diastasic ferments of milk ; whence its liability to change 
and its facility for becoming rancid. Butter which has not 
been melted, but which is carefully washed and pressed, is less 
disagreeable because it is better cleared of the serum which 
remains interposed between the buttery globules. 

By reason of this constitution and its very low melting point, 
26°'5, butter is one of the most digestible of all the fatty bodies, 
especially if it is fresh. Spread on bread, one can consume it 
for some weeks without inconvenience, in a dose of 100 grms. 
and more per day. Here is, according to M. Duclaux {Annales 
de VInstitut agronomique, t. IX. 1884), the composition of fresh 
and salted butters made from cow's milk : — 





Fresh Butter. 


Salt Butter. 




Cantal. 


Isigny. 


Isigny. 


Water 


13-40 


14-24 12-40 


12-36 


Fatty matters 


84-30 


84-82 86-71 


80-56 


Salt 


0-94 


— — 


5-08 


Milk-sugar 


0-60 


0-50 0-16 


0-67 


Casein and salts . 


0-76 


0-44 0-73 


1-43 



The fatty material of butter of cow's milk gives on an average, 
the following composition according to W. Blyth : — Olein, 42 
per cent. ; palmitin with a little stearin, 50 per cent. ; butyrin, 

205 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

7-6 ^er cent. ; caproin and caprylin 0-2 per cent. The butyric 
and caproic acids are there in the proportion of 1 to 2 per cent, 
according to Duclaux. Butter made from sheep's or goat's 
milk contains very nearly the same proportions of these various 
volatile fatty acids. 

The colour of butter varies from white to an orange yellow, 
but its yellow tint is often due to anatto or to marigold or saffron 
which is added to it artificially.^ The savour of butter is sweet, 
its odour very slightly perfumed. Its reaction should be slightly 
acid. Its free volatile acids vary from 010 grms. to 0-25 grms. 
per kg. The different pastures and breeds of cows introduce 
notable variations into the organoleptic properties and into the 
composition of butter. If the animal has been fed in the stable 
on malt, oilcakes, etc., its milk and butter will have a disagreeable 
flavour. If also these foods are given abundantly to the animal, 
a part of their fatty principles non-transformed may be found in 
the butter.^ 

It is often adulterated. Most generally suet, horse fat, oleo- 
margarine and artificial margarine of which we shall speak 
farther on, are introduced into it. Or else turned or rancid 
butters are re-melted and made into an emulsion with a little 
milk and water charged or not with antiseptics and a little 
bicarbonate of soda, etc. ; it is then submitted to centrifugal 
force which reunites the fatty globules thus cleansed. They are 
afterwards consolidated by being made to circulate in very 
narrow conduits under strong pressure. It only remains to colour 
the butter thus purified and to perfume it very slightly with nut 
oil and sometimes a trace of essence of bitter almonds. 

The fat of kidneys, of intestines or of calves, ox or sheep's 
tails melted at a mild temperature combined with olein or the 
oil of sweet almonds and mixed with a little fresh butter finally 
malaxated and centrifugalized, allows of a fairly successful imita- 
tion of butter being made. 

Margarin. — A kind of fat imitating well natural butter 
is made under the name of margarine. The fatty parts of the 
internal organs of the ox, of the calf and even of the sheep are 
collected in a fresh state, hashed, cleansed and melted at 48° to 
50° whilst working them up under water. The fats thus 
purified and deprived of their membranes, are decanted and 
cooled to 30° until the stearin is crystallized. The mass is then 
submitted to great pressure which carries off the excess of this 
latter substance and leaves a more fluid material, oleo-margarine. 
This is sent in forced jets through fine tubes into receivers where 

1 Sometimes with dinitrocresol and Martius' yellow which are poisonous 
bodies. 

2|Lebedef£ ; Munk. Centralblatt f. deutache med. Wisa., 1882; Virchow 
Arch., t. 95, p. 416. 

206 



BUTTER 

it is divided and forms an emulsion which is mixed with a Uttle 
fresh milk and then coloured yeUow with roucou, and churned. 

An artificial butter is thus obtained which washed and strongly- 
compressed, appears similar to ordinary butter. 

Margarine well prepared with choice fats much resembles real 
butter. It is less changeable and more unlikely to become rancid. 
It is a good preparation when sold under its real name and used 
to replace butters of inferior quality. 

Its average percentage composition is : — Palmitin, 22-3 ; 
stearin, 46-9 ; olein, 30-4 ; hutyrin and caproin, 0-4. 



207 



XIX 

ALIMENTS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN — CEREALS 

THE study of the modes of alimentation of great human com- 
munities permits us to state (pp. 13 and 27) that allowance 
being made for drinking water, out of 100 parts of ahment, man in 
our climate borrows about 77 parts from the vegetable kingdom. 

The vegetable aliments therefore play a very important part. 

The most necessary of them, bread (or similar foods) enters into 
our ordinary allowance to the extent of 21 per cent. After it, the 
most common aliments of vegetable origin are the cereals and 
their derivatives, herbaceous or seed vegetables, roots, tubercles, 
fruits proper. 

Although vegetables bring us the same sorts of fundamental 
alimentary principles as those furnished to us by animal foods, 
albumins, fats, carbo-hydrates, these principles differ however 
in the details of their internal constitution. Besides, in plants they 
are mixed with a mass of cellulose material almost inassimilable 
by man ; and whereas in the aliments of animal origin, proteid 
materials predominate, it is the starchy materials and sometimes 
the sugars which are found in great abundance in the vegetable 
aliments. 

Let us also remark that meat, milk, eggs, blood, etc., provide 
us with their albuminoids almost in the same state in which they 
exist in our organs, and that on the contrary vegetable albumins 
such as legumin, almond, gluten, etc., further removed from the 
state which they must reach in the animal to enter into the con- 
stitution of its organs, demand, in order that we may use them, 
a more difficult work of assimilation if one judges of them, on the 
one hand, by the accepted belief that they nourish less for the 
same weight, that they are less fit to keep up our strength ; and 
if one remembers, on the other hand, that they are less completely 
and more slowly re-absorbed in the intestinal tube. According 
to Riibner, whereas out of 100 parts of proteid substances furnished 
by meat, 96 are utilized by man, 80 only are utilized if these 
albuminoids come from wheat and 82 if they are furnished by 
peas and other dry vegetables. 

It is almost the same with the ternary matters : the animal 
provides us with them to a very large degree in the state of imme- 

2o8 



VEGETABLE ALIMENTS 

diately assimilable fats ; the plant brings them especially in the 
form of sugared or starchy substances, which, before changing 
into fats in the system, have to undergo a loss of carbonic acid 
and water. Besides, a part of these starchy substances and a 
great part of the cellulose and analogous compositions (gums, 
mucilages, etc.) pass through the animal's intestine without having 
time to become either transformed or even absorbed. Out of 100 
parts of carbohydrates contained in different ordinary aliments, 
Hubner has found that the following proportions remained in the 
faeces : — 



WTiite wheat bread 

Rye bread 

Maize 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Carrots . 

Lentils . 



11 

10-9 
32 
09 
7-6 

18-2 
3-6- 



A very important part of the cellulose of herbaceous vegetables 
passes through the intestines without being absorbed : only a 
slight proportion of it is utilized. 

With regard to the vegetable fats, they are in general as easy 
to assimilate as the animal ones. One finds along with them in 
plants some bodies of a fatty nature, more or less soluble in ether 
and alcohol, but of a different constitution. They are often 
phosphorated and nitrogenized. Instead of dividing by hydro- 
lysis like true fats into glycerine and fatty acids, certain of these 
substances give glycerine, fatty acids, phosphoric acid and nitro- 
genous bases ; this is the case with the lecithins. According to 
Schultze and Stieger, the contents of the grains of cereals in 
lecithins varies from 0-52 to 0-74 per cent. 

Other substances of a fatty appearance are the true nucleins ; 
phosphorus exists there in an organic and easily assimilable 
state. Seeds and tubercles are very rich in this element. Nearly 
two-thirds of that which we consume, comes from these substances. 
It exists there in a very small quantity under the form of mineral 
phosphorus ; only 6 per cent, of total phosphorus is found there 
under the form of lecithins and nucleins ; but the greater part 
(from 70 to 92 per cent.) is again found under the form of a simple 
combination, the anhydroxymethylenediphosphoric acid dis- 
covered by M. Posternack^, a body corresponding to the compo- 
sition C^H^P^O^ and clearly decomposed by hydrolysis into inosit 
and phosphoric acid. This acid contains, in the organic state 26 'per 
cent, of phosphorus. In the seeds it appears united to potash and 
magnesia. 

The following table, borrowed from M. Postemack, indicates 



1 Compt. rend. Acad, sciences, t. CXXXVII, pp. 339, 439. 
209 P 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



the percentage quantities of phosphorus existing in some seeds 
under these different forms : 





Total. P. 


P. of Posternack's 

Acid 

for 100 parts of 

Grain. 


Acid 

for 100 parts of 

total P. 


P. of lecithins 

for 100 parts 

of total P. 


Hempseed shelled 
Peas .... 
Lentils . 
Haricots . 


1-460 
0-367 
0-299 
0-512 


1-330 
0-260 
0-247 
0-418 


91-44 
70-80 
82-60 
81-60 


1-02 
6-2 

6-7 
8-0 



The extracts and flours of cereals introduce into the system a 
large quantity of phosphorus in an assimilable form, without 
burdening the alimentation with an excess of albuminoids or 
nitrogenous waste. These extracts are also favourable to the 
growth of young animals, and excellent for convalescents and 
infants as has already been remarked by the ancient Greek 
physicians. 

The following table, due to MM. Schlagdenhauffen and Reeb ^, 
gives in phosphoric anhydride P^O^, the relative proportion of 
phosphorus contained in the natural alimentary seeds under two 
forms — mineral and organic. 





Ash. 


P205 






per 100. 


Mineral. 


Organic. 


Total. 


Wheat . . . 


2-22 


0-859 


0-183 


1-040 


Rye ... 


2-16 


0-739 


0-291 


1-030 


Barley . 


2-42 


0-557 


0-373 


0-930 


Oats . . . 


3-29 


0-680 


0-160 


0-840 


Buckwheat . 


2-97 


1-648 


0-070 


1-718 


Haricots 


3-13 


0-652 


0-187 


0-839 


Peas 


2-73 


0-581 


0-240 


0-821 



Plants also introduce into our food a certain quantity of iron, 
magnesia, manganese and, without doubt, some silica in organic 
form. Several of their combinations also contain phosphorus 
soluble in ether and even in petroleum ether.^ 

Vegetables, particularly herbaceous vegetables and seeds of 
leguminosae, play another very important part in alimentation. 
They convey to the animal organism in the form of salts of potash, 
soda,'magnesia and lime, the basis necessary to our tissues. They 
are contained in plants in the form of albuminates, malates, 
citrates, tartrates, oxalates, etc. The organic material of these 

1 Comptes Rendus, t. CXXXV, p. 205. 

2 In my researches on chlorophylls, I have shown that these vegetable 
pigments dissolved in petroleum ether contain a certain quantity of phos- 
phorus and magnesium ; after evaporation and calcination, we obtairj 
a residue containing phosphate of magnesia free from iron. 

210 



CEREALS 

salts during destruction in the system owing to a series or oxida- 
tions, gives up in the form of alkaline carbonates, the bases 
introduced in the form of organic salts. They saturate the 
uric, hippuric, lactic, sulphuric, phosphoric acids, etc., arising 
from the dissimilation of animal matters. It is chiefly by this 
mechanism that the alkalinity indispensable to their functioning 
is preserved in our tissues and plasmas. From this point of view, 
vegetables play in animal alimentation a role of the first import- 
ance. Potaph predominates in them ; according to Boussin- 
gault, spinach contains 4-5 grms., potatoes 3-2 grms., turnips, 
3-7 grms., cabbages 26 grms. chicory 1-7 grms., etc., for 100 dry 
parts. 

Out of the 4-5 grms. of potash (K^O) and 1-1 grm. of soda 
(Na^O) contained in his alimentary allowance for 24 hours, an 
adult receives from vegetables 3-2 grms. of potash, and 0-65 grms. 
of soda. Out of 1-15 grms. of lime and 0-65 grms. of magnesia 
in the same allowance, vegetables furnish him with 0'80 grms. of 
lime and 0-50 grms. of magnesia. 

We eliminate each day by the urine about 5 grms. of sulphuric 
anhydride (SO^) and 2-5 grms. of phosphoric anhydride (P^O^) 
arising from the sulphur and phosphorus of the albumins and 
nucleins. It is the acids thus formed, part by division and part by 
oxidation, which are saturated by the alkalies furnished by the 
plants. To this saturation, however, a feeble proportion of am- 
monia directly formed in the tissues contributes. This latter 
phenomenon, summary in the case of omnivorous animals, 
develops largely in carnivorous animals nourished solely on flesh. 

Classification of vegetable aliments. — We shall divide into five 
groups the aliments furnished by plants : 

(a) — Cereals (meals, bread, etc.) and their derivatives. 

(ft) — Seed vegetables (haricots, peas, lentils, beans, etc.). 

(c) — Roots and tubercles (potatoes, batatas, yams, Jerusalem 
artichokes, etc.). 

{d) — Herbaceous vegetables (spinach, sorrel, chicory, cabbages, 
salads, etc.). 

(e) — Fruits (apples, pears, peaches, strawberries, almonds, 
nuts, etc.). 

Cereals. 

The seeds of cereals are used in foods either in a direct form 
cooked in water after removing the husks and consumed in their 
natural state as barley, rice and corn itself, or else in the form of 
jHip or dovxjh as in the case of maize and buckwheat, or finally and 
generally in the form of bread. Before speaking of this last pre- 
paration, we state in the following table, composed solely of 
averages borrowed from J. Koenig ^ and each one corresponding 

1 Loc. cit. 
211 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



to a great number of analyses, the composition of the entire grain 
of the principal cereals : 



Average 


Composition of Grain of 


THE 


Principal Cereals. ^ 






1 






|e 




















Russian 

Wheat. 

(av.). 


^8^ 

ip 

•C.S 




Rye 
(av.). 


Bar- 
ley 
(av.). 


Oats 
(av.). 


Maize 
(av.). 


Rice 
(av.). 


Buck- 
wheat 
(av.). 


White 
Sor«!o 
(Bal- 
land). 




S 




1^ 

•< 


c 3 

1- 

















Water . , . 


13-37 


13-37 


1337 


1337 


1337 


14-05 


12-11 


1335 


12.58 


1412 


11-70 


Nitrogenous 


12-64 


17-65 


11-60 


12-92 10-81 


9-66 10-66 


943 


6 73 11-32 


932 


substances 










1 










Fats . . . 


1-41 


1-58 


2-07 


2-15 177 


193 4 99 


4-29 


0-88 


261 


2-25 


Starches and 


68-92 


\ ( 




1 












sugars 




1 65-74 


69-47 


67-98 70-21 


66-99 58-37 


6933 


78-48 54-86 


67- 63 


Celluloses 


2-00 


1 


1-70 


1-72 1-78 


4 95 10-58 


229 


051 14-32 


6-20 


Ash , . . 


1 66 


1-66 


1-791 1-86! 206 


2-42 3-29 


1-29 


0-82 2-77 


2-90 



We see that rice is the cereal richest in starchy matters : after 
it comes, in decreasing order, rye, wheat, maize, and lastly buck- 
wheat. 

Maize and oats are the richest in fatty matters, rice the poorest. 

Of all the cereals, wheat is the one which contains the most 
assimilable proteid matters (up to 18 per cent.) ; after that comes 
buckwheat (11-6 to 17 per cent.), then rye, barley and oats (107 
per cent.) The poorest are maize, sorgo, and especially rice (6-7 
per cent.). 

After being ground and passed through a bolter to separate out 
the germs, the bran and a small proportion of complex nitrogenous 
materials, the different grains of cereals give flours of whicli the 
following table indicates the average composition according to 
J. Koenig : — 

AVEBAGE PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF FlOURS OF CeBEAXS. 





Flour of 

Wheat 

(average). 


Flour of 
Rye. 


Flour of 
Barley. 


Flour of 
Oats. 


Flour of 
Maize. 


Flour of 
Buck- 
Wheat. 


Water .... 
Nitrogenous matters 

Fats 

Starches and sugars 

Celluloses 

Ash 


13-37 

10-21 

0-94 

74-71 

0-29 

0-48 


13-71 

11-57 

2-08 

69-61 

1-59 

1-44 


14-83 

11-38 

1-53 

71-22 

0-45 

0-59 


9-65 
13-44 

5-92 
67-01 

1-86 

2-12 


14-21 
9.65 
3.80 

69.55 
1-46 
1-33 


13-51 
8-87 
1-56 

74-25 
0-67 
1-14 



Wheat and buckwheat give the flour richest in starch ; oats 
contain most albuminoids, principles in which buckwheat and rice 
are the most destitute. The flour of oats and maize are the 

1 See the analyses of PeHgot {Ann. phyn. chim. 3rd series, t. XXIX, p. 34. 
on the composition of the different kinds of wheat. 

212 



I 



richest in fats in which, on the contrary, the flours of wheat and 
especially rice are the poorest. 

A propos of wheat flour, we shall presently give a few facts 
concerning the proteid materials of cereals. As for the fatty 
substances in part phosphorated and nitrogenous, they are above 
all formed from ethers of glycerine, of fatty acids, of free fatty 
acids, and finally of lecithins accompanied by others phosphor- 
ated bodies and of special cholesterins. The quantities of phos- 
phorus found in the ethereal extract in 100 parts of dry flours 
have been according to E. Schultze and E. Steiger : 

Wheat 0025 grms. 

Rye 0022 „ 

Barley 0028 „ 

We know that cereals form the basis of human alimentation. 
Unfortunately some of them introduce poisonous principles into 
the system. Rice often contains moulds whose spores are not 
destroyed by cooking ; maize can provoke pellagra, at least in 
countries where this grain is largely consumed by the people ; 
rye is dangerous by reason of its ergot, which is liable to produce 
gangrene of the extremities ; the flour of wheat may contain 
venomous seeds of rye grass (Lollium temulentum) and of corn- 
cockle (Agrostemma). It is possible by a good choice of grains to 
avoid these poisonous effects which are sometimes endemic. 

Wheat. 

The varieties of wheat are very numerous : winter wheats, sum- 
mer wheats, hard wheats and tender wheats or lammas wheats, etc. 
They differ in their average composition : winter wheats are 
poorer in gluten and richer in starch ; hard wheats are more 
charged with both and less aqueous. 

In general, gluten varies in the grain of wheat from 10 to 15 or 16 
per cent. ; on an average 12 per cent. The soluble albumins vary 
from 1-3 to 2-6 per cent. ; on an average 1-8 per cent. ; the weights 
of the assimilable albuminous materials of this precious grain 
rise on a general average to 13-5 per cent. But in Germany the 
ordinary weight of the albuminous bodies of different sorts of 
wheat rises only to 11-6, and in France to 12-6 per cent. The starch 
in a grain of wheat varies from 60 to 73 per cent, in Germany and 
from 62 to 74-5 per cent, in France. 

The hard wheats, with smaller grains, as it were corneous and 
somewhat translucid, come from the warm countries (South 
America, Africa, Asia, Spain, Italy). They are used in making 
oatmeal, dough, macaroni, semolina. These are the grains of 
cereals richest in nitrogenous matter. They yield from 82 to 83 
per cent, of a yellow flour giving from 140 to 143 kgs. of 
bread for 100 of flour and for 122 of grain. The tender wheats 
are the poorest in proteid materials. Their flour is whiter and 

213 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

more starchy. They furnish bolting from 72 to 78 per cent, of 
a flour which gives per 100 kgs., 130 to 136 kgs. of breads 

Here is the composition of two average samples of flour of 
wheat, spoken of as " of the first and second quality " : — 





First. 


Second. 


Water 

Gluten 

Fatty matters .... 

Starch 

Cellulose 

Mineral matters . 


13-34 

10-18 

0-94 

74-75 

0-31 

0-48 


12-65 

11-82 

1-36 

72-23 

0-98 

0-96 




100-0 


100-0 



The very white flours, obtained from tender wheats and groats 
by crushing in cylinders called Hungarian, which separate and 
cast the heart of the grain, are much less rich in gluten than the 
flours classed as being of the second quality, on account of their 
being less white. The first qualities are also poorer than the second 
in phosphorus and mineral elements. It follows that the com- 
mercial denomination of " first quality flour " and " second 
quality flour " indicates the inverse of the nutritive value of these 
products. 

Bran, which is sometimes left in bread for economy or for pre- 
tended motives of hygiene to which we shall refer again, has the 
following composition which I compare with that of the corre- 
sponding flour : 





Flour. 


Bran. 


Bran of a Flour bolted to 




20% according to Poggiale. 


Water 


15-54 


12-67 


12-67 


Nitrogenous matter {J^J^J^J^j^ 


11-17 


.12-99 


6-61 
7-38 


Fats 


1-07 


2-88 


2-88 


Starch 


70-43 


31-31 


21-69 


Dextrins and sugars . 


— 


— 


9-61 


Cellulose 


0-98 


34-67 


34-57 


Ash 


0-81 


5-58 


5-512 




100-00 


100-00 





1 On an average 100 parts of wheat give by grinding : — 

70 per cent, of very white flour 

5 per cent, of brown flour 
22 per cent, of bran 

3 per cent, of waste 
100 kgs. of corn give on an average 96 kgs. of fresh bread. 

2 This analysis proves that bran contains half its weight of assimilable 
matter, of which 10 to 12 per cent, are nitrogenous substances. 

214 



CEREALS 

The cellulose of grain is, as we can see, almost entirely contained 
in the seed coat. 

For 1,000 parts, the grain of wheat contains, on an average, 
17 parts of mineral matters, 8 of which are phosphoric acid. 1,000 
grms. of flour give no more than 5-5 parts of mineral salts, 
2-50 of which are phosphoric acid. It is the bran which has 
carried off this enormous quantity of phosphates. 

For 1,000 parts of grain the phosphorus is thus divided : — ■ 

Whole grain, 21p. of mineral salts of which 893 are P^O^. 

Flour, 5-5p. of salts of which 2-33 are F^0\ 

Bran, 15-5p. of mineral salts of which 50p. 100 are phosph. of 
K Mg, Ca. 

The average ash left by combustion of wheat has, according 
to E. Wolff, the following percentage composition : — 





Winter Wheat. 
(110 analyses). 


Summer Wheat. 
(16 analyses). 


Potash (K20) 

Soda(Na20) 

Lime(CaO) 

Magnesia (MgO) 

Ferric oxide (Fe203) 

Phos. acid (P205) 

Sulphuric acid (S03) 

SiUca(Si02) 

Chlorine 


31-16 
3-07 
3-25 

12-06 
1-28 

47-22 
0-39 
1-96 
0-32 


30-51 
1-74 
2-82 

11-96 
0-51 

48-94 
1-32 
1-46 
0-47 


Total ash for 100 parts of wheat . 


100-70 
1-96 


99-73 
2-14 



This ash is then almost entirely composed of phosphate of 
potassium (PO^K^H) and phosphate of magnesia (PO*MgH) 
with very small proportions of soda, chlorine and lime. It 
is always acid to litmus paper. A part of its phosphoric acid 
proceeds from the nucleins and the oxidation of organic phos- 
phorus. One will also remark the extraordinary richness of 
these ashes in silica. 

The principal nitrogenous matter of flour, gluten or vegetable 
fibrin, is composed of four bodies : gluten-casein, the true vege- 
table casein insoluble in alcohol^, and three other albuminoids 

1 We find in the flour of cereals and of leguminosae, a globulin crystalliz- 
able like its salts, edestan, it is soluble in slightly salted water, which cold 
water and dilute acids transform into an insoluble modification in the 
solutions, and which possesses basic properties : it is the edestin of Osborne. 
It dissolves in weak alkalies and combines with acids, particularly phos- 
phoric acid with which it is in combination in these grains. Edestin is 
precipitated from its solutions by an excess of NaCl. It is acid to phenol- 
phthalein. It dissolves in dilute acids and forms with them and with 
alkalies true combinations (see Bull. Soc. Chiin., 3rd Series, t. XXVIII, pp. 
186, 189, 303, 393, 395, 666, and t. XXX, p. 274). 

215 




Wheat Starch. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

soluble in this dissolvent, which are : gluten-fibrin, insoluble in 
water; gliadin which is separated by boihng water, and the 
mucedin. A vegetable albumin soluble in cold water accompanies 

the gluten ; it is very ana- 
logous to the albumin of 

egg- 

The starch of wheat is 
made up of grains from 49 
to 50/t. in diameter and has 
a special form (Fig. 8). It 
enables us to recognize this 
flour under the microscope 
and to distinguish the 
fraudulent additions of 
rice, barley, oats, fecula, 
potatoes, etc. 

The fatty material ex- 
tracted from flour of wheat 
by ether is easily fused at 
about 30°. 

It contains some lecti- 
hins and other nitrogenous 
or phosphorated com- 
pounds, in particular 
methylene- diphosphoric 
acid C^H^P^O^ of M. Pos- 
ternack, to which we shall 
return when speaking of 
mineral aliments. 

These data concerning 
the flours of wheat apply 
to a large extent to the 
flours of other cereals of 
which we shall only say a 
few words before studying 
bread — their chief indus- 
trial product. 

Rye, Barley, Oats, Maize, Rice, Buckwheat. 

Rye. — ^More recently discovered than corn, this grain enters 
into the alimentation of many countries. Rye is indeed the 
cereal which sprouts in the poorest soils. Its gluten cannot be 
extracted from this flour by kneading with water. 

Rye gives a brown bread, slightly sourish, lightly hygroscopic 
and of a rather sweet and peculiar odour. It is capable of being 
preserved without hardening and it is in this that its chief advan- 
tage lies. It is a little more difficult to digest than wheat bread. 

2X6 




Rice Starch. 




Grains of Potato Starch. 
Fig. 8. 



CEREALS 



We here give the analysis, according to J. Koenig, of bread made 
from flour of sifted rye (ordinary rye bread) and non-sifted (Pumper 
nickel of the Germans). 




Rye bread 
Nitrogenous matters 
Fats .... 
Sugar .... 
Starch .... 
Cellulose . 
Ash ... . 



The mixture of floui" of rye and wheat forms meslin, which 
produces a bread easy to keep and of fairly good taste. 

The consumption of rye bread made with flour coming from 
grains invaded by the Claviceps purpurea or ergot of rye, can 
produce epidemics, characterized especially by gangrene of the 
extremities. 

Barley. — This plant is valuable by reason of its rapid growth : 
four months suffice for its ripening. It can be cultivated in the 
coldest or hottest countries. 

The flour of barley is little valued — one knows the saying : 
rou^h as barley bread. However, we sometimes mix, for economy, 
the flour of barley with that of wheat. Thus we obtain a bread 
which rises badly, is of less agreeable taste than that of wheat 
alone, and above all, more indigestible. 

Decorticated barley (barley meal), cooked in water with milk, 
with or without the juice of meat, makes rather a good aliment. 
Soups of barley or oats, by reason of their mucilages and swelling 
of the fecula, possess a gummy aspect (mucilaginous soups of the 
Germans) and contain only 1-5 per cent, of albuminoids and 5-5 
to 5-6 per cent, of carbo-hydrates. They are useful for satisfying 
invalids without nourishing them much. 

Oats. — Oatmeal, largely used in the form of soups and pies for 
100 years in France, is no longer employed to-day except to prepare 
broths for children and weak persons, but it is used a great deal 
in England. These preparations are very slightly laxative. 
Oats are a somewhat exciting aliment ; they are the richest among 
cereals in fats, organic phosphorus and lecithins. It is said that 
the pap of oats is particularly used in the East to fatten young 
girls at the time of their puberty. If it is not perfectly ground 
and sifted, this flour may contain some husks and sharp hairs 
which hurt or irritate the stomach and intestines of children. 

Oatmeal porridge is sufficiently nutritive, very stimulating, 
"agreeable to the taste and has a slight perfume of vanilla. 

217 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Bread made from oats is very coarse and is only now consumed 
in very poor countries. Here is its average percentage composi- 
tion : — 



Water 


1304 


Nitrogenous matters ...... 


8-39 


Fatty matters ....... 


603 


Sugar ......'.. 


409 


Carbo-hydrates, etc. ...... 


6012 


Celluloses ........ 


5-28 


Ash 


3 05 



Maize. — Maize or Turkey wheat, known from time' immemorial, 
forms the basis of the alimentation of a multitude of countries, 
particularly Lombardy, the South-East of France, Turkey, 
Southern America, etc. Its yellow or white flour, according to 
the variety, cooked with water, into thick paps mixed or not with 
milk {polenta of the Italians) makes cakes of soft dough which are 
eaten instead of bread. Baked, this aliment is very easy to 
digest ; but 15 to 20 per cent, of its nitrogenous substances escape 
intestinal absorption. This cereal is also sometimes eaten in the 
form of seeds split by heating. Unfortunately the countries 
where maize is largely consumed, are those which suffer from 
pellagra. 

Rice. — Rice {Oriza sativa) is the plant which affords nourish- 
ment to the greatest number of people in the world. It forms 
the basis of the alimentation of the yellow races of mankind ; 
it is also largely consumed in India, northern America and 
Europe. Its flour is unfit for making bread. Rice can only be 
eaten cooked in water, milk or broth, or in the form of gruel. It 
is occasionally consumed as bread, mixed with a considerable 
quantity of wheat flour. The pap of rice is an aliment easy to 
digest, especially when eaten almost dry, after the custom of 
the Japanese. Rice can be associated with milk, fatty bodies, 
a little meat or cheese. It gives with water a somewhat astrin- 
gent decoction which is utilized in intestinal diseases. 

Although the least rich of all the cereals in fatty and nitro- 
genous matters, rice added to a little pork or fish, serves as the 
nourishment of immense populations in China, Japan, India, etc. 

It is a very prolific plant, but it can only be cultivated in rather 
warm climates and on lands which can be submerged, conditions 
which are unfortunately favourable to the development of paludial 
fevers. 

Buckwheat. — Buckwheat or hlackwheat is the grain of a plant 
belonging to the family of the polygonnse which we obtain from 
central Asia. 

It is to be found in most parts of Russia. In France it is con- 
sumed in Sologne, Brittany and in Normandy. Its crop in France 
is from 6 to 7 million metrical hundredweights. Its tetragonal 

2l8 



DECOCTIONS OF CEREALS 

grain furnishes a whitish flour, unfit for making bread ; but some 
very substantial cakes and paps of rather agreeable taste are made 
from it. According to M. Balland, its flour contains from 9-4 
to 11-5 per cent, of nitrogenous matters ; 2 to 2-8 of fatty- 
substances and 58 to 63-5 of starch. 

Decoctions of Cereals. — From all times decoctions of cereals 
have been used in medicine as drinks or light aliments for inva- 
lids ; some a srice water to arrest diarrhoea ; barley water or 
oats water as cooling draughts. This practice is perfectly rational. 
Not only do we thus obtain some sugared, salted, aromatized or 
alcoholized beverages which are pleasing to invalids, but which 
are also sufficiently nutritive by reason of the starchy and albumin- 
ous matters, but also salts and especially organic phosphorated 
salts of potash, magnesia and lime which they dissolve in small 
quantities. A decoction of 30 grms. of crushed barley or wheat 
per 1,000 cc. of water, boiled for one or two hours and filtered, 
contains per litre Oil grms. to 0-14 grms. of total phosphorus, 
of which 0-07 grms. to 0-09 grms. are organic phosphorus, part 
in the form of lecithins, part under the form of dissolved nucleins, 
part under the form of oxymethylenediphosphate of potash and 
magnesia (p. 210). These drinks, in the same way as milk, favour 
the development of the skeleton and growth of the child or con- 
valescent, and sustain the invalid as Dr. Ch. Springer justly 
remarks in his little work, The Energy of Growth^. 

These decoctions of cereals can be employed very advantage- 
ously to combat demineralization in invalids and in wet-nurses 
to improve the quantity and quality of their milk. We shall 
return to this a propos of diets. 

With these alimentary drinks we must mention toast and water, 
which is made with toasted bread boiled in water and afterwards 
passed through a sieve. It is a slightly nutritive drink by reason 
of its albuminous principles, its dextrin, sugar and salts and its 
organic phosphorated combinations. 

1 Paris, 1902. 



219 



XX 

WHEAT BREAD 

IN the two preceding chapters we have stated that it was 
indispensable to know about bread, pastes and paps made 
with flour other than that of wheat. We shall only concern 
ourselves in this chapter with bread made from wheat. 

Bread is with meat the principal nutritive substance of the 
civiHzed white man. He has never tired of these two aliments. 
The total consumption of bread in Paris alone is 900,000 kgs, 
per day. 

Bread is the result of kneading wheat flour with water and 
yeast, and baking this mixture. 

The art of making bread has been perfected with the ages. 
liaised or fermented bread appears to come to us from the 
Egyptian who, already at the beginning of historical times, 
was eating raised bread and drinking beer^. From this country 
the use of leaven penetrated into Phoenicia, Greece, Italy and 
Gaul. But the ancient people of Rome ate corn either under 
the form of pulmentum or pap, as we still eat buckwheat or 
maize pap, and the coiiscous of the Arabs, or under that of 
unleavened cakes, cooked under the ashes or on the firebrands. 

Flour of wheat (like all flour of graminaceae) when mixed and 
kneaded with water, a little salt and yeast, soon enters into 
fermentation : gases are produced — if it is a question of the dough 
of wheat or rye, the mass swells and becomes more or less porous 
and acidulated ; it rises, as we say, and in order to make it into 
bread, it is only necessary to submit it to baking. 

The leaven is sometimes formed of a part of the dough taken 
from a previous kneading and kept for some days, sometimes it 
is borrowed from the vat of the brewer. Leaven or specially 

1 The origin of leaven appears to be the sweetened juice of ripe grapes. 
In Egypt and Greece the juice of ripe grapes is kneaded with flour, and 
the whole dried in the sun under the form of little cones. There is thus 
obtained a preparation fairly easy to preserve, containing the mucors or 
yeast of the pellicle of the grape. Reduced to powder and mixed with 
sweetened liquids or with the bread mass, this powder caused its fermenta- 
tion. 

220 



BREAD 

selected yeasty is mixed at first with a littl ' water and fresh 
flour and kept for some hours at 20 or 50° {first leaven). This is 
in turn mixed with a sufficient quantity of flour and water 
{second leaven), and finally this second leaven is kneaded with the 
total amount of flour to be made into bread and the necessary 
water. The leaven is formed, as we know to-day, of a multitude 
of living microscopic cells, which, meeting in the dough some 
phosphates, nitrogenous soluble matters and sugars, develop 
there rapidly, especially at about 30° to 40°. By acting thus 
on the sugars of the flour, the leaven transforms them into 
alcohol and carbonic acid, and the gases thus produced in the 
heart of the dough tend to escape through the plastic mass, 
which they swell up and make porous and light. At the same 
time, under the influence of the diastases or starches of the 
leaven, the starch of the flour is hydrated and is in part liquefied 
in being transformed into dextrin. 

When, about the temperature of 18° to 20°, the bread fer- 
mentation has arrived at its height, the dough is divided by the 
baker into lumps or pastes, which are taken to the oven. These 
cakes still increase in volume owing to the development of the 
gas included in the mass and to the volatilization of the alcohol 
which has been formed. At the same time the starch is hydrated 
by cooking and partly transformed into amylodextrin. The 
surface of the loaf becomes reddish in arriving at a temperature 
of 220° to 250°, and the bread comes out of the oven made up of 
a golden crust and a white and porous crumb, the temperature 
of which during cooking has not reached even to 100°. This 
temperature is however nearly always sufficient to destroy all 
the organisms of the dough and leaven. 

We have here only to recall the manufacture of bread in its 
essential practices, without enlarging on the complicated art of 
bread making. It is sufficient for us to briefly point out the 
principles of it, and especially to study its product. 

According to the best authors (Rivot, Poggiale, J. Koenig, 
Wanklyn, etc.), bread made and cooked to a nicety, should have 
the following approximate composition : — 

Solid materials ........ 66 

Water 34 2 

100 

1 It is a curious fact that formerly Guy Paton (1668) and various mem- 
bers of the University of Paris were strong adversaries of yeast as also of 
potatoes. But supported by Perrault and other physicians, its use in 
the end prevailed by a decree of Parliament, March 21, 1770. However, 
the practice of using yeast as leaven, has remained for a long time reserved 
for best quality bread. 

2 Rivot gives for properly baked bread : Water, 30 to 33 per cent. ; 
Wanklyn and Cooper, 34 per cent. ; Ch. Girard, 33 to 34 per cent. The 

221 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Since 100 parts of flour ^ contain on an average 84 parts of 
solid substances and 16 parts of water, it follows that 100 kgs. 
of this flour ought to produce 129 to 130 kgs. of correctly baked 
bread. 

Amongst bakers, those who aim at fraudulently increasing 
their profits arrange that 100 kgs. of flour shall produce not 130 
kgs. of bread with 34 to 35 per cent, of water, but 140 to 162 kgs. 
with 34 to 40 per cent, of water. It is easy to obtain this result, 
either by adding to the flour of wheat a httle flour of rice or 
maize, lime water and different salts which maintain a degree 
of hydration higher than in the case of starch (these frauds are 
rather rare) ; or preferably by overheating the oven before 
putting the bread in it, in such a way as to seize the surface of 
the paste which is then cooked for a shorter time and which 
keeps under its crust a quantity of superabundant humidity. 
This fraud is to be feared especially in the case of the large house- 
hold breads consumed by the workman, who thus loses, on an 
average, 101b. of bread per 100 kgs^. 

Good bread ^ ought to be light, resounding and well raised. 
It should give a minimum of 22 per cent, of a golden crust *, 
brittle and difficult to detach from the crumb. The latter ought 
to be elastic and to have large cavities in it ; if, after the bread 
is cool, it is moderately compressed between the thumb and index 
finger, the crumb should not stick together, but should slowly 
return to its original volume ; it should not cUng to the fingers 
which knead it. Good bread should absorb a great deal of hquid 



customs and laws fix the amount of water at 34 to 35 per cent. In France, 
the process of mihtary bread-making produces 146 kgs. of bread at 38 per 
cent, of water. This bread, it will be understood, is too aqueous and 
would not keep well. The analyses made by Poggiale of ammunition 
bread (about 1860) give only 34- 17 per cent, of water in the bread of the 
French soldier ; with 4'45 of starch, 41 of sugar and dextrin, 9 of nitro- 
genous matters and 61 of bran. (See Rev. de medecine militaire, 2nd 
series, t. XII, p. 351.) 

1 A mixture such as is employed in good bread making contains one-half 
to two-thirds of the flour of tender wheat and one-half to one-third of the 
floiu" of hard wheat. 

2 If the humidity of bread is of 41 per cent, instead of 35. 

3 A priori we can say that there is no good bread in the hygienic sense, 
except that which is made mechanically. Hand-made bread has received 
not only the sweat and often the products of the cough of the bread maker, 
but also his epidermic scales and everjrthing that these may carry with 
them in cases of skin diseases when due regard is not paid to cleanliness, 
etc. In the better hand-made breads we sometimes find parts that have 
a sickly taste which are of human origin, or which come from insects and 
maggots in the flour. 

* Barral : Average of twenty-five analyses of Parisian bread : 23 per 
cent. Average of fancy breads, 41-6 of crust. Rivot : Proportion of 
crust, minimum 22-5, maximum 44-7. Payen : English bread, average of 
ape analyses, 24-4. 

232 



BREAD 

without being dissolved when it is moistened. It ought not to 
rub away under the fingers. The colour of the crumb ought 
to be very clear yellowish white and slightly translucid ; its sweet 
odour of wheat should recall neither sourness, mouldiness nor 
fermentation. Dried in the oven without being baked, good wheat 
bread should not lose more than 36 per cent, of its weight. Cut 
in slices 1 centimetre thick and left in the air, good bread in 
dr3dng ought not to diminish by more than 25 per cent, even after 
a fortnight. 

Bread which is too watery is heavy and only slightly sonorous ; 
its sticky crumb, when rolled between the fingers, leaves a visible 
oily mark. The crust of this bread weighs less than one-sixth of 
the total weight. 

In Paris for some time past, the only flours employed in bread 
making have been bolted to 28 per cent, at least, that is to say, 
from the raw product of the grinding of the grain, 28 parts have 
been thrown out in the form of bran. These flours have the 
advantage of giving a very white bread, but less rich in gluten 
and less savoury than bread made from flours bolted to 22 per 
cent. only. These latter give a bread a little less white, it is true, 
less leavened but more savoury, richer in organic phosphorus 
and gluten and more nutritive. In following this practice 
of exaggerated bolting, a practice at the most good for a rich 
man who finds nitrogenous aliments in superabundance in his 
daily nourishment, reality is sacrificed for appearance and the 
workman deprived of a more nutritive bread for which he would 
have to pay less. 

Bread which is just cool when it comes out of the oven is 
called soft or fresh bread. Its crumb retains for some hours the 
aptitude of consolidating under a sufficient pressure or by masti- 
cation. After twelve or fifteen hours the bread becomes stale. It 
crumbles then under the fingers and its taste is less delicate. 
But stale bread is easier to digest because it is more pervious to 
the digestive juices. This change in bread is not due to dessi- 
cation ; it takes place even in surroundings saturated with 
moisture. Besides, in becoming stale, bread only loses 2 per 
cent., and even less, of its water. The change of fresh bread into 
stale bread is due, as M. Lindet has shown, to the fact that a part 
of the starch which was transformed into amylodextrin (it forms 
about 10 per cent, of the weight of the bread when it comes out 
of the oven), returns at the end of twelve to twenty-four hours 
to the state of starch. The amylo-dextrin reappears in small 
proportions and for some hours only, when the stale bread is 
again put into the oven, which then again takes on some of the 
characteristics of new bread. 

The starch of fresh bread, which absorbs from four to five times 
jts own volume of water, will not absorb more than twice its owii 

223 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

volume when the bread is stale. The latter therefore, swells 
less in the stomach. 

Here are some analyses of the usual wheat breads : — 

AvEBAGE Percentage Analyses of White Wheat Bread. 





Rivot. 


J. Koenlg. 


Wanklyn and Cooper. 


Water 


43-33-2 


33-59 


34-00 


Starch . . . 


35-44-5 1 
9- 3-9 [ 
2- 1-3 


51-78 \ 




Dextrins . 


54-50 


Sugars 


4-02 / 




Fats .... 


1- 0-7 


0-46 


— 


Proteid matters 


9-3- 8-8 


7-06 


9-50 


Mineral matters 


0-7- 1-3 


1-09 


2-0 



Barral has given the following analyses of the whole loaf, of 
the crust and of the crumb, of a same loaf of Paris, weighing 
4 lbs. (known as Mason's loaf) : — 





Whole Bread. 


Crust. 


Crumb.i 


Water 


38-30 


17-15 


44-45 


Insoluble nitrogenous matters 


6-24 


7-50 


5-92 


Soluble 


1-86 


5-70 


0-75 


Soluble non-nitrogenous ,, 


4-04 


4-88 


3-79 


Starch . 


47-84 


62-58 


45-55 


Fats 


0-81 


1-18 


0-70 


Mineral matters 


0-91 


1-21 


0-84 




100-00 


100-00 


100-00 



100 parts of good fresh wheat bread give, according to Rivot, 
06 to 08 grms. of ash. This ash has the following composition 
per gramme : — 



Alkaline bases 

Lime 

Oxide of iron 

CI (expressed in HCl) 

S03 

P203 
C02 

Silica 

Sand and clay 



211-0 272 
111-0144 
0043-0051 
0065-0039 
0010-0007 
0-500-0-438 

0003 

0016-0019 
0040-0021 



The alkaline and earthy phosphates form the greater part, as 
we see, of this ash, but a notable portion of the phosphoric acid 
derives from the oxidation of the phosphorus of the lecithins, 

1 Crust 22-5 ; crumb, 77-5 per cent, of bread. 
/ 224 



BREAD 

nucleins, methylenephosphoric acid, etc., which have disappeared. 
In fact, to saturate in the state of bibasic phosphate the alkahne 
and alkahne earthy bases contained in the ash of 100 parts of 
bread, 0"232 grms. of P^O^ will suffice ; but we find on an average 
0"470 grms. The difference, say 0238 grms., is due in a great 
measure to the combustion of organic phosphorus. In traversing 
the system the phosphorated compounds of the bread eaten, 
are oxidized in the same way and pass to the state of phosphoric 
acid. It follows from these remarks that bread like meat tends 
to acidify the blood, an important observation to which we shall 
often return and which shows the necessity of the addition of 
vegetables to aUmentation. 

The crust of bread is more nourishing than the crumb ; it is 
more soluble in water and richer in nitrogenous matters in the 
proportion of one to two. It is also more easily digested and 
more exciting jbo the stomach. 

Toast and water, bread soup and rusks, can be quoted amongst 
ahments which are more favourable to the development of 
nurslings and convalescents. 

In large towns, breads for both rich and poor have been manu- 
factured from all time — fancy breads, first and second quality 
bread, plain bread, brown bread, black bread, etc. But here, 
especially, we must not judge things by appearance without 
examination. In Paris, the breads spoken of as fancy breads, 
are those which have not the weight (it often falls short by more 
than one -third). Made from a flour which has been too much 
bolted, they are richer in starch and poorer in gluten than the 
bread spoken of as of the second quahty. They are then better 
to look at but less nourishing. On the other hand they are 
cooked to a nicety, and often only contain 28 to 30 per cent, of 
water. 

On the contrary, in the country, the bread is coarser to look 
at, either owing to the addition of a certain proportion of rye 
flour, about an eighth, to prevent it drying and to give it more 
flavour (as in the case of ammunition bread of the soldiers), or 
because a part of the bran is left in it, or again because it is bolted 
to 15 or 16 per cent, only, which causes the flour to contain the 
epispermic ceUs of the grain with their special ferment cerealine 
of Mege-Mouriez ^ suitable for browning the bread during its 
manufacture. But this greyish bread, or brown bread, is more 
nutritive, savoury, richer in gluten, nitrogen and phosphorus 
than white bread. Magendie whilst studying bread from this 
point of view, noticed that a dog nourished solely with the best 
white bread, died at the end of 50 days, whereas another dog, 

1 C. rend. Acad, sciences, t. XXXVII, p. 427 ; t. XXXVIII, p. 505 ; 
t. XLVI, p. 126 ; t. XLVIII, p. 431 ; t. LXI, p. 1,137. 

225 Q 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

exactly similar, exclusively nourished on brown bread (flour and 
bran) lived indefinitely ^. 

The ancients ate only brown bread, and the people who in 
Europe hold to this custom are very healthy. Hence the recom- 
mendation to use once or twice a week bread called complete, 
that is to say, bread containing a part of its bran ; or even of 
bran bread which contains all bran.^ 

Brown bread, especially when mixed with a little rye, is more 
nutritious and refreshing than white bread. It must be added 
that, because of the intestinal peristalsis which it increases, 
brown bread is less used than white and gives more abundant 
excrements. Thus, after the ingestion of a pound of white 
bread, about 5 per cent, of the weight of its substances, calculated 
dry, corresponding to 20 per cent, of the total nitrogen and to 
1 per cent, of carbo-hydrates, remain in the faeces. Rye bread 
leaves in the excrements 10 to 15 per cent, of its weight calculated 
dry and 20 to 30 per cent, of its nitrogen. The bread spoken 
of as complete, that is to say without the separation of any bran, 
is still more imperfectly absorbed. 

The following analyses, due to M. Balland, whose competence 
in matters relating to ahmentation is well known, show the 
superiority in nitrogenous nutritive materials of farm bread 
and French ammunition bread over the white bread of Paris and 
especially over the extra-white bread called fancy bread. We 
add to it, according to the same author, the composition of bread 
used in French warfare and of the biscuits used by the troops : — 

Comparative Percentage Composition of Various Sorts 
OF Bread and Biscuits. 





Farm 
Bread 


Ammuni- 
tion Bread. 


Fancy 
Bread 


Bread in 
time of War 


Biscuit of 
tlie Forces 




(Bresse). 


(Paris). 


(Paris). 


(1894). 


Water .... 


32-60 


38-50 


31-60 


11-40 


11-30 


Nitrogenous matters 


7-25 


7-98 


5-99 


10-50 


13-20 


Fatty matters . 


fO-40 


0-15 


0-24 


0-60 


042 


Starch and sugar 


59-04 


52- 13 


61-59 


72-66 


73-75 


Cellulose .... 


0-14 


0-28 


0-14 


0-34 


0-44 


Ash 


0-57 


0-97 


0-44 


1-04 


0-89 



Flour ground by a cylinder and not by a millstone, flattens 
the grain before crushing it and causes a part of the gluten to 
pass into the bran. Here are some analyses of white bread 
according to M. Muntz ; the first has been made with flour crushed 
by a cylinder (yield 70 of flour per 100 of grain), the second with 
flour crushed by the millstone (yield 70 per cent.). 

1 Compt. rend. t. XXVITI, p. 40. 

2 Using bran bread once or twice a week is not equivalent, we must 
understand, to eating brown bread each day. 

226 



ADULTERATIONS OF BREAD 



Water 

Nitrogenous matters . 
Fatty matters .... 
Matters soluble in alcohol 

Sugars 

Mineral matters 
Phosphoric acid 



White Bread made 

from Flour 

crushed by a Cylinder. 



Crust. 



20-7 
8-06 
0-08 
0-32 
0-18 
•981 
0-19 



Crumb. 



41-4 
5-87 
0-02 
0-30 
014 
1-57 
0-13 



White Bread made 

from Flour 

crushed by a Millstone. 



Crust. 



21-5 

8-50 
0-19 
0-60 
0-29 
252 
0-28 



Crumb. 



37-8 
6-62 
0-10 
0-43 
0-20 
2-06 
0-20 



It is seen that the yield by the millstone is greater, and the 
weight of albuminoid matters higher. 

The exaggerated bolting of flours, since the departure 
made by the Hungarian grinding or cylinder grinding, in 
substituting for ordinary bread one which is whiter but less 
nutritive, less phosphorated and less nitrogenous, is certainly 
one of the causes of the impairment of the general health of 
Europe. 

The processes studied by Mege-Mouriez for eliminating the 
creatin or restraining its action on the flour which it darkens 
during the making of the bread, have enabled them to make for 
some time past in the factories which produce the bread for our 
hospitals, a bread almost as white as fancy bread, also quite as 
agreeable to the taste and much more nutritive. 

Harmful Substances. — Adulterations of bread. Bread made 
with sour yeast possesses a disagreeable acidulated flavour. It 
is the same if the yeast has been employed in an exaggerated 
proportion, usually with the object of using and raising flours 
of inferior quality. The bread may also have, in this last case, 
a slightly bitter taste. 

If it is made with damaged flours or is too aqueous and badly 
cooked, it is liable to be invaded (especially in the warm time of 
the year), either on the surface or in the interior, by different 
fungi : Oidium auruntiacum which covers it with a pale yellow 
efflorescence ; Ascophora nigricans which darkens it in the 
interior and makes the bread poisonous ; Aspergillus glaucus 
and A. flavus, Penicilium glaux^um rapidly invade it with their 
moulds. All these mouldy breads cause diarrhoea and some- 
times serious poisoning. Their taste, like their aHmentary value, 
is changed. 

The brown rust of wheat {Tilletia caries), blight {Pucinia 
graminis), rye grass, and mildew of the fields also communicate 
to the flour and bread some harmful properties. 

Finally, flours badly kept or too old are liable to be invaded 
by certain insects : the fleshworm or Tyroglyfvs siro farinae, 

227 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

the flourworm, etc., which leave in the bread after it is cooked 
their nauseous detritus. 

The principal adulteration of bread consists in its exaggerated 
hydration : we have spoken of this previously (p. 223). A bread 
containing more than 37 to 38 per cent, of water should be con- 
sidered as adidfcerated. This adulteration cannot be watched 
too carefully, as it especially affects the poor to the advantage 
of the manufacturers who draw an excessive interest on their 
capital. 

Sulphate of copper, in doses of ^^1 grm. per 35 kgs. of flour 
enables the quantity of water in the bread to be increased and a 
crust and crumb satisfactory to the eye to be obtained even with 
questionable flours. Alum and borax serve also to give some 
whiteness to breads made from flours bolted to a small degree. 

Finally, the addition to bread of flour of rice, black wheat, 
leguminosae of fecula, constitutes a fraud easy to recognize imder 
the microscope, by the examination of the grains of starch. 

Various Derivatives of Bread. — The nutritive power of bread 
can be increased by the addition of gluten powder or preparations 
of dry casein. 

We can also add to the flour milk, eggs and butter forming 
some savoury and very nutritive preparations from which cakes, 
biscuits, strips of paste, macaroni, etc., are made. With the 
addition of cheese the latter constitute the rational, very nutritive 
and cheap food of the poor Italian populations. 

Gingerbread is made with the flour of wheat, with rye and the 
addition of honey, molasses, aniseed, cloves, cinnamon and from 
1 to 1*5 per 1,000 of potassium carbonate. It is a rather agreeable 
ahment, very sHghtly laxative. One can, by various additions, 
make a medicated bread of it. 

Gluten bread, for diabetics, is prepared by drying gluten at 
100°, finally pulverizing and kneading it with a httle flour, 
water and butter or more often by adding powdered gluten to 
ordinary flour and finally converting it into bread. The bread 
called gluten may contain from 5 to 8 per cent, and sometimes 
as much as 25 per cent, and more of starch. It has been attempted 
to replace it by soja bread, very rich in gluten, more nutritive 
than ordinary bread, but of a not very agreeable taste. Bread 
is also made of the flour of wheat with the addition of a large 
proportion of flour of sweet almonds. 

There have been made or proposed to be made for the army 
some very nitrogenous breads, made with flour of wheat previ- 
ously raised to 140°, then kneaded with the flour of leguminosae 
and finally cooked in a baker's oven. These preparations, mixed 
with water and boiled, produce an aliment rather agreeable to 
taste and very nutritive. 

The composition of biscuits, brioches, croquets, wafers, etc., 

228 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 

which are often given to invalids and children, deserve to be 
stated here. I reproduce M. Balland's analysis : — 





Biscuits 


Dessert 


Brioche. 


Bordeaux 


English 


Ginger- 




in Tin. 


Biscuits. 


Croquet. 


Wafers. 


bread. 


Water .... 




[9-20 


14-00 


21-10 


1-00 


5-70 


14-60 


Nitrogenous matters 




,7-70 


9-82 


9-40 


10-50 


8-40 


3-74 


Fatty 




12-60 


6-35 


22-85 


12-15 


1-15 


1-15 


Sugary 


42-80 


59-86 


4-50 


43-17 


44-38 


28-90 


Starchy „ 


37-40 


8-62 


40-46 


31-83 


39-97 


48-86 


Cellulose 


0-10 


0-35 


0-35 


0-85 


— 


0-81 


Ash 


0-20 


1-00 


1-34 


0-50 


0-40 


1-94 




100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 



AU these preparations are made with flour, butter, sugar, 
yolk of egg, milk, sometimes almond paste, white of egg, etc., 
and are differently sweetened and flavoured. 



229 



XXI 

SEED VEGETABLES — SHOOTS, BUI^BS, TUBERCLES AND ROOTS 

BREAD and meat suffice to nourish man, but they cannot 
maintain hira indefinitely in health. They both, as has 
been seen, have a tendency to acidify the blood. Should vegeta- 
bles be wanting at any time, the humours will become less and less 
alkaline and symptoms of a scorbutic nature will appear. It is 
not only the use of salt meats which causes these ; scurvy in 
Paris, during the siege of 1870-71 attacked a population which 
had not been fed on salt meats but had wanted vegetables. 

They not only carry to the system a large proportion of 
alkaline and alkahno-terreous bases (potash, soda, Hme, magnesia), 
but especially some alkaline salts "with organic acids, suitable, 
by oxidation of the combustible part of their molecule, to trans- 
form themselves into carbonates in the tissues and plasmas 
where they saturate the phosphoric and uric acids, etc., originating 
the destruction of the nucleo-proteids, as well as the sulphuric 
acid which arises from the incessant oxidation of the sulphur of 
the albuminoids. Whilst the ash left by the combustion of 
wheat flour, rye, or of bread is formed of acid phosphates as 
we have seen, the combustion of peas, beans, haricots, cab- 
bages, etc., leaves, on the contrary, purely alkaline ash. This 
excess of alkali in the products of combustion of vegetables over 
the quantity which would suffice to neutralize the strong acids 
which are found there (phosphoric, sulphuric, etc.), arises from 
the destruction by fire of the salts with organic acids of these 
vegetable aliments. But we know, according to Woehler, that 
in the animal system, the alkaline tartrates, citrates, malates, 
etc. (which are absorbed by the mouth or given by injections), 
pass, in consequence of the successive oxidations which they 
undergo in the tissues, into the state of carbonates of potash or 
soda which alkalize the blood and urine. If the analyses of the 
ash of beans or haricots are calculated, one finds for 100 parts, 
in the beans twenty parts, in haricots seventeen parts of potash 
in excess of the quantity which is able to saturate the whole of 
the strong acids present. 100 grammes of beans in the natural 
state (dried in the air) have given me on combustion, 3" 93 grms. 

230 



I 



SEED VEGETABLES 

of salts of which 2-34 grms. of soluble salts alkaline to plienol- 
phthalein which correspond to 0-184 grms. of free soda. 

Dry vegetables then are an indirect source of alkalis. A 
fortiori it is thus with herbaceous vegetables. These are, in the 
case of the herbivorous animal, the large providers of bases and 
of mineral matters. For 100 parts of substances, calculated dry, 
cos lettuce brings from thirteen to twentj^-two parts of mineral 
matters ; spinach and celery from sixteen to twenty ; cabbage 
from twelve to ten ; Brussels-sprouts ten ; cauliflower nine ; 
turnip eight parts of mineral salts. All these ashes are strongly 
alkaline. 

It is the same with fruits : the most acid, such as apples, pears, 
peaches, cherries, gooseberries, strawberries, grapes, tomatoes, 
etc., also contain a large quantity of alkalies in the state of organic 
acid salts, which contribute, while becoming oxidized in the 
system, to alkalize the blood and the humours. 

Vegetables and fruits fulfil still another office. They regulate 
the stools in exciting by their cellulosic residues the intestinal 
peristalsis. Owing to them, the faecal matters form a sufficiently 
coherent mass, which does not wound the intestine by its hardness 
and which can be easily expelled. 

We have seen (Part I. ) that according to Riibner, Woroschiloflf, 
Atwater, etc., vegetables with equal weights of nutritive principles 
have not such a high alimentary value as meat, which is more 
favourable to the development of muscular force. Herbaceous 
foods tend to increase the hydration of the organs and to raise 
the absolute weight of the body, whilst diminishing its density. 

A good proportion of fresh vegetables in the food, about 
250 to 300 grms. a day, is the average quantity which may be 
considered as sufficient and necessary. 

In order to study these aliments, we shall divide them into seed 
vegetables, young shoots and buds, tubercles and roots. 

Seed Vegetables. 

The vegetables which we sometimes call dry vegetables, are 
peas, dwarf peas, haricots, beans, lentils, etc. 

Of all the nutritive materials, including meat, seed vegetables 
constitute the aliment most rich in albuminoid principles and 
ternary substances. These are then very nourishing products 
and one may say complete aliments. 

Riibner has been able to maintain the nitrogenous and car- 
bonated equilibrium of his subjects under experiments solely 
with 520 grms. per day of dry peas given in pap. The diges- 
tibility of seed vegetables is, it is true, a little weaker than that 
of meat and of bread and the assimilability of their principles 
a little more difficult, but the value they possess by their richness 
in nitrogenous, starchy and phosphorated principles should make 

231 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

them enter more largely into our daily food. That is what the 
Germans have very well understood in adopting for the army 
their sausage and vegetable tablets and I have been able to effect a 
like result in making the Technical Committees of the Minister 
of War since 1888 agree that these dry vegetables should enter 
into the food of the soldier and reserves of the entrenched camps. 
I add that peas, haricots and especially lentils, keep a long 
time — a year or more — without sensibly modifying their 
intrinsic constitution. They are very little subject to the attack 
of insects ; they can besides, if necessary, be dried and sterilized. 
These are valuable practical properties. 

The proteid matters of seed vegetables are especially formed 
of legumin, a kind of vegetable casein easily digested.^ It cor- 
responds, according to Ritthausen, to the composition C = 51-48 ; 
H = 7-0 ; N = 16-7 (peas, lentils) to 14-7 (haricots) ; S = 0-40 
to 0-45 ; = 24-3 (peas, beans) to 26-3 (haricots). Legumin 
forms with the alkalies some soluble salts ; but with Hme or 
magnesia it produces insoluble combinations which explains the 
hardening of these aHments when they are cooked in very chalky 
water. In this case, it is well to correct this by adding beforehand 
a Httle carbonate of soda (0-3 grms. to 0-5 grms. per litre of water) 
which precipitates the alkaline-earthy salts. 

The legumin is always accompanied in the seed vegetables by 
the oxymethylenediphosphates (see p. 210) and by the phosphor- 
ated nucleins so much the more abundant as these vegetable 
products are eaten in the state of seeds more imperfectly 
developed, or tender shoots, or buds, etc. 

Cooking, while hydrating the starch of seed vegetables and 
partly transforming it into amylodextrin, renders these foods 
more digestible and at the same time increases the weight of the 
material which is hj'-drated. Puree of peas contains 70 per cent. 
and more of water, whilst green peas only contain 14 per cent. 
at the most. This is partly the reason of the feeling of satiety 
which these purees occasion. 

On the other hand, after cooking, the cellulose, of which a cer- 
tain proportion always exists in every vegetable, can be absorbed 
in the intestine to the extent of a haK and sometimes more 
(Kniriem). 

As for the clilorophyll or colouring matter of green vegetables, 
it does not appear to have any nutritive value whatever.^ 

1 See note, p. 215, its relations with edestin. 

' In order to preserve in green vegetables the colour which is pleasing to 
the consiimer, many manufacturers in France, England and America add, 
during the cooking and packing of the preserves, a small quantity of salts 
of copper. The analyses of preserves thus prepared have given 001 6 
grms. to O'OSO grms. of copper per kg. of drained vegetables (A. 
Crautier, Anncdes Hygiene, etc., Paris, 1876, 3rd series, t. T, p. 6), These 

23? 



SEED VEGETABLES 

Mineral matters which by the green or herbaceous vegetables 
play in alimentation such an important part, vary very much 
with the soil in which these vegetables have grown. The follow- 
ing table gives the quantity which 100 parts of fresh vegetables 
furnish of it, and at the same time the percentage composition of 
these matters : — 

Composition of Ash left by Seed Vegetables. 





Lentils. 


White 
Haricots 


Worms 
Hari- 
cots. 


Dutch 
Peas. 


Alsace 
Peas. 


Beans. 


Ash for 100 fresh parts 


2-32 


3-29 


— 


2-88 


— 


1-66 


For 100 parts of ash : 














K20 


27-84 34-76 


39-51 


38-89 


34-19 


36-31 


20-82 


Na20 


8-76 13-50 


3-98 


11-78 


12-86 


1-76 


18-10 


CaO 


5-07 6-34 


5-71 


5-90 


2-46 


10-39 


7-26 


MgO 


1-90 2-47 


6-43 


9-03 


8-60 


12-24 


8-87 


NaCl 


5-18 4-63 


3-71 


0-55 


0-52 


1-90 


2-44 


Fe203 


1-61 2-60 


1-05 


0-11 


0-96 


— 


1-03 


P205 


29-07 36-30 


34-50 


31-34 


34-57 


31-00 


37-94 


S03 


15-83 1 


4-91 


2-49 


3-56 


4-84 


1-34 


Si02 


1-07 


— 


0-44 


0-29 


1-54 


2-46 


Authors .... 


L^vy 


Bous- 
sin- 
gault 


L6vy 


Thou 


Bous- 
sin- 
gault 


Bichon 



These numbers at once show the enormous proportion of 
alkaline phosphates contained in the ash ; the excess of alkalies 
over the phosphoric acid and the other radicals, the remarkable 
richness of some vegetables (haricots, peas, beans) in magnesia, a 
base which almost always accompanies organic phosphorus and 
sulphur. Phosphoric acid coming from the organic phosphorus of 
the lecithins, nucleins, etc., rises for 100 grms. of green peas to 
0-240 grms. and for 100 grms. of haricots to 0- 187 grms. with 2-7 and 
3-1 grms. of total ash. We see also that the proportion of iron 
in lentils, beans, haricots, etc., is considerable. It is in the rich 
vegetable matters which ether dissolves that the lecithins are 
found. 

Here is the most indispensable information concerning each 
of these foods in particular. 

Haricots. — There exist many varieties. I give here the analysis 
of some according to M. Balland ^ : — 



quantities of copper slightly change the flavour of the vegetables but 
do not appear to act susceptibly on the health of the consumer. It would, 
however, be as well if this practice were to be discontinued. 

1 This number corresponds in this particular case to that of the 
carbonic acid of the carbonates of the ash and not to that of SO^. 

2 Compt. Rendua, t. CXXV, p. 120. 

233 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





Seeds of White or Red Haricots. 


Frencli Beans in full 
Pods. 


For 100 parts. 


Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Water .... 

Nitrogenous matter 

Fatty matter . 

Sugar and starch . 

Cellulose 

Ash 


10-00 

13-81 

0-98 

52-91 

2-46 

2-38 


20-40 

25-16 

2-46 

60-98 

4-62 

4-20 


92-00 
1-90 
0-28 
4-17 
0-74 
0-82 



The maximum of fatty matters and the minimum of nitrogen- 
ous matters are only exceptionally met with and in the very large 
haricots of Spanish origin. The ash of these fats contains a large 
proportion of manganese. The digestion of haricots is only 
difficult for tired and weakened intestines. It is nevertheless 
not accomplished without the production of gas. It is a healthy 
and very nutritive food, especially for those in good health. 
French beans are contra-indicated in cases of arthritis. 

Peas. — The different varieties of peas (white peas of France 
and Germany, green peas of the East, of the North, of Noyon, 
Holland, etc.) have such a uniform composition that they more 
closely resemble haricots and lentils. Here it is according to the 
same author {loc. cit.). It concerns dry and not green peas : — 





Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matter 
Fatty matter .... 
Sugar and starch . 

Cellulose 

Ash 


10-60 

18-88 

1-22 

56-21 

2-90 

2-26 


14-20 

23-48 

1-40 

61-10 

5-52 

3-50 



The small green peas, not entirely formed, are richer than 
the large ones in nitrogenous matters (Poggiale). For the small 
green peas in seed, M. Balland has found : Water, 78-8 ; nitrogen- 
ous matter, 4-47 ; fatty matter, 0-24 ; extractives, 14-02 ; cellulose, 
1-65 ; ash, 0-72 per cent. 

Pea soups and purees are easily assimilable but relatively small 
in nourishment. Pea puree contains up to 70 and 80 per cent, 
of water. 

The split peas of commerce are more nourishing than the 
ordinary dried peas. 

We eat the husk of green haricots not yet developed in their 
pod and that of peas called " mangetout " ^ while it is full of 



1 Mangetout. A kind of haricot bean of which the French eat both 
pod and seed. 

234 



BEANS 



starchy and albuminous juices intended to nourish the scarcely 
formed seeds. These are aliments rich in sugar, assimilable 
cellulose, inosit and nucleins. 

Lentils. — Their composition shows some sort of analogy with 
that of beans but they are less rich in cellulose. The small len- 
tils of Egypt, of the South of France and of Auvergne are more 
savoury and more nitrogenous than those of Paris, Bohemia and 
Russia, the seed of which is at least twice as large. Here are some 
analyses of this vegetable before cooking : they relate to 100 
parts (the same author ; loc. cit.) : — 





Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Water 


11-70 


13-50 


Nitrogenous matter 


20-32 


24-24 


Fatty Matter .... 


0-58 


1-45 


Sugar and starch . 


56-07 


62-45 


Cellulose 


2-96 


3-56 


Ash 


1-99 


2-66 



Beans. — Beans from different countries (Artois, Burgundy, 
South of France, Egypt, Algeria, Koenigsberg etc.) differ somewhat 
amongst themselves in look and size, but their composition, at 
least that of the kernel deprived of the episperm, varies little. 

The bean is a very nutritive and nitrogenous aliment. Pliny 
relates that the people of Northern Italy used it in all their foods. 
The use of the bean deserves to be more general. Deprived of its 
outer covering, its seed forms an excellent vegetable, savoury and 
very nutritive. The low price of this aliment and its richness in 
legumin point very naturally to its being a food for the poor. A 
given weight of bean nourishes more than the same weight of meat. 

Here are, according to M. Balland {loc. cit.) some analyses — 
maximum and minimum — of the bean, kernel and skin included, 
for 100 parts : — 

Percentage Composition of Edible Bean. 



Minimum. Maximum 

1 1 


Whole Bean 

from the 

South. 


Kernel. 
83-2% 


Envelope 
15-1%. 


Water .... 

Nitrogenous matter 

Fatty matter . 

Starch, sugar, etc. . 

Cellulose 

Ash 


10-60 

20-87 

0-80 

50-89 

5-24 

2-06 


15-30 

26-51 

1-50 

58-03 

7-86 

3-26 


11-10 

22-95 

0-92 

54-11 

7-68 

3-24 


10-90 

26-98 

1-12 

56-74 

1-16 

3-10 


9-80 
3-44 
0-25 
34-561 
49-70 
2-25 




100-00 


100-00 


100-00 



1 34-56 of extractive matter from which starch is entirely absent. 

235 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The small Egyptian beans, brown or black in colour and round 
in form, are the most nitrogenous (nitrogenous matters, 26-51 
per cent.) ; after them, in decreasing order, come those of Bresse, 
Lorraine, Koenigsberg and Artois. The least nitrogenous are 
those of Algeria and Tunis. 

Peas or beans of Soja. — This is the oily pea of China and Japan 
where its cultivation dates from the earhest times. Its feeble 
quantity of starch and its richness in albuminoids has given rise 
to a proposal to make bread of it for diabetics. Here is according 
to M. Balland the composition of this interesting seed^: — 





Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Water 


11-30 


10-00 


Fatty matter .... 


14-80 


12-95 


Proteid „ .... 


38-41 


34-85 


Starch, dextrin, sugar 


3211 


26-74 


Cellulose 


6-20 


3-60 


JVIineral matters 


5-20 


4-35 



Its ash is chiefly composed of phosphates of potash and 
magnesia, with a little calcium sulphate. 

One will notice the exceptional richness of this aliment in nitro- 
genous principles. Starch rises on an average in this flour to 
28 per cent, instead of 45 per cent, in that of wheat. Unfortu- 
nately the taste of this vegetable is not very agreeable. 

In Japan the flour of Soja is mixed with cooked rice and left 
to ferment, and a sort of broth or sauce is thus obtained which 
takes the place of extract of meat. 

Powders of Comestible Flours of LEGUMmosiE and 
Gramlne^. 

The richness of the seeds of leguminosae and graminese in 
nitrogenous and phosphorated nutritive materials has given rise 
to a great number of specialities of flour and powders which, 
boiled in water or mixed with milk, broth or eggs form some very 
nourishing soups and purees. These powders are nearly all 
mixtures of the flour of grains of leguminosae with that of cereals 
(barley, maize, oats, etc.) in suitable proportions. These prepara- 
tions usually undergo a slight torrefaction which sterihzes them 
and communicates a slight perfume to them and also partly trans- 
forms into more assimilable materials some of their nutritive 
principles. Thus the starch in them is partially changed into 
amylo-dextrin and very digestible dextrins. Finally the seeds 



1 Compt. Rendus, t. XC, p. 1177 and t. CXXXVI, p. 936. 
236 



CONSERVES OF VEGETABLES 

destined to make these semi-medicamental preparations, are 
submitted to a commencement of germination whicli partly pep- 
tonizes their proteid principles and partly makes their starch 
soluble. The gemmules are then cleared away by means of 
appropriate mills and the grain from which the germ has been 
removed is transformed into flour. These are the flours called 
diastased. They are prepared with corn, wheat, oats, maize, etc., 
with the addition or not of leguminosse.^ 

We mix these flours among themselves in proportions which 
vary according to each brand. One of these which is the most 
in vogue, through being largely advertized, appears to be made 
with a mixture of .diastased flours of peas, haricots, lentils, oats, 
maize and cocoa. Sometimes the yolk of egg is added and 
worked up with these powders, afterwards being dried and pul- 
verized afresh. Finally, they can also be made with the addi- 
tion of milk, powdered milk, phosphates, etc. Good preparations 
are obtained by submitting to a slight heat a part of the dias- 
tased and degerminated grain, then adding the other part which 
brings its diastases intact and active. 

Heated with water these different preparations give very nutri- 
tive soups. They agree with children from the seventh to the eighth 
month. Before that age they are ill-supported, the starchy and 
leguminous matters which they contain being difficult for young 
stomachs to digest. They are, on the contrary, good foods 
during the second year. They may also be prescribed for con- 
valescents, except in the case of dyspeptics, the microbic fermen- 
tation of their sugars and dextrins in the stomach being very 
rapid, and capable of even preceding the hydrochloric secretion. 

Conserves of Vegetables, with or without Meat. 

Dried, compressed, powdered or shredded vegetables, with or 
without fat, with or without meat, render great service in the 
diet of soldiers, sailors and travellers. It will be useful to make 
here a few observations concerning them.^ 

Dried Vegetables and Vegetable Soups. — Different vegetables (cab- 
bages, carrots, potatoes, French beans, turnips, etc.) are chopped 
up by a machine into thin slices, dried in the oven so long as they 
contain more than 13 to 14 per cent, of water. They are then 
compressed into a mass whose density equals 1. 

Soaked in water, these preparations keep for quite a long time, 

^ J. B. Boussingault relates in his Memoirs (t. IV.) that at Chocco he 
has seen the Indians also feed themselves with flour made from grains of 
maize, slightly germinated, then heated, flour which they swallow after 
having simply mixed it with river water. 

2 We owe the following details chiefly to the works of M. Balland {Memoire 
dea Annales d'hygiene et de mid. legale. August 1901 in particular). 

237 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



swell a little, can be cooked and have the convenience of always 
being ready for use as a normal indispensable complement to 
meat foods. These preserved vegetables are of the greatest 
service to sailors, explorers, soldiers, etc. 

The conserves of French beans, green peas, etc., are to be got 
by first bleaching these vegetables by boiling for an instant in salt 
water, then pouring them into tin boxes with a certain proportion 
of prepared liquid (water, salt, spices, etc.) then sealing and carry- 
ing to the autoclave at about 115°. 

Here are some analyses according to M. Balland of vegetable 
soups, cabbages, dessicated haricots, etc., destined for the 
army. • 



Water .... 
Nitrogenous matter 
Fatty matters . 
Starchy matter and 

extractives 
Cellulose 
Ash 



Julienne of 
French origin. 



13-80 
7-75 
1-50 

67-33 

5-16 
4-46 



White Cab- 
bages in 
Dried Cakes. 



18-00 
8-12 
0-30 

63-13 

7-75 
2-70 



French Beans 
dried. 



10-60 

17-80 

1-15 

57-10 

8-65 
4-70 



Green Peas in 
Tins 
(drained). 



77-00 1 
5-36 
0-46 

13-96 

2-30 
5-17 



Conserves of Soups; Conserves of Meat and Vegetables. — In France 
attempts were made to prepare as food for the soldier while cam- 
paigning, complete dry conserves with peas, meat, fat and dried 
onions. They contained for 100 parts, 20 of pure cooked meats, 
20 of fat, 48 of pea flour, 4 of onions, 8 of salt and pepper. This 
preparation had no success ; it quickly becomes rancid, takes 
a sharp and disagreeable flavour, etc. 

After successive attempts the " conserve depotageaux haricots,''^ 
made with 60 per cent, of flour of peeled haricots,^ 30 of fat, salt 
and pepper was arrived at. The haricots should have been 
previously cooked and partly dried before being ground. This 
preparation is placed in tin boxes and sterilized at 115°. It 
looks like a homogeneous yellowish paste, and preserving its fla- 
vour for a long time without becoming at all rancid, it makes 
plentiful soups. The preserves of meat -vegetables for the army 
according to the Instructions published in the Bulletin mili- 
taire of February 6, 1901, contain for 100 parts : Flour of hari- 
cots cooked and dried before grinding, 54 ; fat, 25 ; lean pork meat, 
15 ; pared onions, 1 ; salt, 5 ; pepper, 0-3 ; it seemed to be better 
appreciated by the soldiers than the preceding preserves. 



1 Green Peas cooked in water and not dried. 

2 All vegetables not peeled become disagreeably bitter in time. 

238 



CONSERVES OF VEGETABLES 

The following are two analyses of these products :- 





Conserve of Soup with 
Haricots. 


Conserve of Haricot Puree 
witli Pork (mixed). 


Water .... 
Nitrogenous matter 
Starchy „ 
Cellulose „ 
Ash .... 






6-40 

13-55 

24-20 

44-31 

2-44 

9-10 


12-90 
18-85 
26-98 
33-75 
1-90 






5-62 






10000 


100 00 



The conserves of soups used in the German army are mixtures 
of cooked flours of haricots, lentils and peas with fat and salt. 
They contain a little more nitrogen than those of the French 
army owing, it appears, to the addition of extract of meat. They 
are also, and rightly so, more spiced than the French. 

They are transported in packets of flat round pieces wrapped in 
parchment paper ; each piece weighing 150 grms. when diluted 
with boiling water gives a thick soup. Here is the composition 
of a few of these preserved soups : — 





Conserve witii 


Conserve witli 


Conserve witli 




Haricots. 


Lentils. 


Peas. 


Water .... 


9-10 


8-90 


8-00 


Nitrogenous matter 


16-14 


17-97 


17-50 


Fatty 


22-10 


20-60 


19-05 


Starchy ,, 


41-98 


38-83 


42-45 


Cellulose 


3-96 


3-60 


3-10 


Ash .... 


6-72 
100-00 


10-00 


9-90 




100-00 


100-00 



The conserves for soups {Cartouches-rations) of the English 
army are very varied (fats, extracts of meats, powdered meats, 
haricots, potatoes, peas, rice). They seem to be little valued 
by the English soldier. 

Eibrennsuppe of Austria-Hungary is in square packets, 36 
grms. each, covered with parchment paper. They consist of flour 
of vegetables and wheat, of the pulp of potatoes, burnt onions, 
anise. . . . 

The Belgian conserves of souops have also the flour of leguminosse 
for their base, with the addition of fat, extract of meat, pepper, 
leek and salt. They are a little more nitrogenous and richer in 
cellulose than similar French makes. 

The tablets of viande-legumin are prepared with 1 part of meat 
powder and 6 parts of flour of peas, beans, lentils. They contain 
12 per cent, of water ; 28-7 per cent, of albuminoids ; 2-2 of fats ; 
50 of carbo-hydrates ; 3 of salt. 

239 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



The greater part of these aliments, and other similar products, 
keep well in a dry place but they have the property of becoming 
rancid when they remain exposed to the air for some time. 

Shoots, Bulbs, Tubercles and Roots. — In this class we shall place : 
Vegetables eaten in the state of buds or of young shoots, such as 
asparagus, artichoke, cabbage, etc. ; secondly tubercles, under- 
ground appendages of the stalk such as potatoes, Jerusalem arti- 
choke, sweet potatoes, yams, colocasia, etc. ; thirdly bulbs, 
onion, leek, garlic ; fourthly roots, carrot, turnip, salsify, viper's 
grass, etc. 

Shoots, Buds. — Asparagus which is eaten in the spring is consti- 
tuted by the young stalk, or shoot, of the plant which is gathered 
just at the moment when it is leaving the earth. It is a highly 
esteemed dish containing nucleo-proteids, mannite, asparagine 
C^H^N^O^, aspartic or amidosuccinic acid C^H'NO* and a sub- 
stance which, in traversing the system, communicates to the 
urine a very disagreeable special odour. 

Here is the analysis of white rose asparagus which I again 
borrow from M. Balland : — 





Heads cut at 0-05 m. 


Length of O-OSm. cut 




from the top. 


below these Heads. 


Water 


90-50 


92-80 


Nitrogenous matter 


1-31 


0-67 


Fatty bodies .... 


0-31 


Oil 


Starcli and mucilages . 


6-78 


5-40 


Cellulose 


0-69 


0-65 


Ash 


0-41 


0-37 




100-00 


100-00 



The artichoke is formed by the unexpanded heads of the 
Cynara scolymus of the famity of the Synantherae. The lower 
part of the scales and the receptacle which carries them, are 
rich in inulin and very nutritive nitrogenous albuminous matters. 

Here is, according to M. Balland, the analysis of the receptacle 
(bottom of artichoke) and the edible white part of the central 
leaves of the artichoke. 





Receptacle. 

80-80 

3-68 

0-21 
13-07 

1-27 

0-97 


Bottom of Leaf. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matter 
Fatty „ . . 
Extractive „ . . 

Cellulose 

Ash 


80-90 
3-76 
0-62 

12-73 
1-53 
0-56 




10000 


10000 



240 



CABBAGE 



We find manganese in the ash. 

The cabbage [Brassica oleracea, Cruciferse) has been cultivated 
from time immemorial as an alimentary plant. It contains a 
great quantity of water (from 89 to 94 per cent.). After a long 
boiling, if it is a matter of the cabbage in leaf, the residue consti- 
tutes a common dish, but savoury and very nutritive, rich in 
nitrogenous and sulphurated albuminous principles, recalling a 
little as to taste beef tea and extract of meat. 

There are a great number of edible varieties of this valuable 
vegetable : green cabbage, savoy cabbage, headed cabbage, red 
cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc. 

The ordinary green cabbage with large leaves and the headed 
cabbage are of great use in the aHmentation of the masses. With 
bread and bacon they provide a healthy nourishment for strong 
stomachs, economical and very nutritious, of which one does not 
become satiated. 

Cauhflower is formed by the budding branches of the stalk of 
the vegetable grouped in bunches still united amongst themselves. 
It produces a fleshy mass, tender, shghtly sweetened, where one 
may find a little starch localized in the outer parts. Boiled with 
water it constitutes a light food rather dehcate. 

Here are some analyses of headed cabbage {Brassica oleracea 
capitata), of green or ordinary cabbage, of caulifiovver {B. o. 
botrytis) and of so-called Brussels sprouts. They relate to a kg. : — 





Headed 
Cabbage. 


Green 
Cabbage. 


Cauliflower 
(average). 


Brussels 
sprouts. 


Water 

Albuminous matter . 
Starchy matters, etc. . 
Cellulose .... 

Fats 

Mineral matters 


899-7 
18-9 
48-7 \ 
18-4 j 
2-0 
12-3 


900 
33 

57 
15 


909 

24-8 

45-5 

9-1 

3-4 

8-3 


828-0 
38-0 
96-20 
17-90 
5-80 
14-10 



We shall give later the detailed analysis of the mineral matters 
of these vegetables. 

Sour crout is obtained by soaking in salt water, with the addi- 
tion of juniper berries, pepper, etc., the leaves of headed cabbage 
previously cut into thin strips. The water is renewed after ten 
or twelve days. A fetid and lactic fermentation develops which 
leaves, after washing and cooking, an acidulous aliment, easy 
to digest and nearly free frqm starch. 

The onion is the radical bulbous stalk, often very developed, of 
the Allium cepa (Liliacea). The leek is the elongated bulb of 
the Allium porrum. The detailed composition of these two 
vegetables deserves to be better known : we only know that 
they contain a volatile essence piquant to the eyes and nose, 
formed of ally lie ethers. Ordinary starch is not found in these 
two vegetables. 

241 R 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Garlic is formed by small bulbs or cloves of allium sativium 
(Liliaceae). 

It is chiefly used as seasoning. We find a very irritating sulphur- 
ated oil in it, sulphate of allyle exciting to the secretion of the 
intestine and stomach. After boiling in water, garlic can easily 
be eaten. It contains starchy mucilaginous and sugared materials. 

Here are two analyses of onion and garlic due to M. Balland : — 





Pink Onion. 


i Garlic. 

! 


Water 


83-50 


58-00 


Nitrogenous matters 


1-62 


! 6-52 


Fatty matters 


0-10 


0-15 


Extractive matters, starchy matters, etc. . 


13-691 


32-682 


Cellulose 


0-50 


1-22 


Ash 


0-59 


! 1-43 

1 



These three last vegetables are almost entirely used as condi- 
ments. 

All green vegetables are very rich in water ; it rarely falls 
below 83 per cent, and can rise to 94 per cent, and more. This 
water holds in solution with a small proportion of albumins, gums 
and mucilages, various salts in which alkalies predominate; 
100 grms. of fresh green cabbage gave me 1-09 of ash, composed 
of 0-338 insoluble salts and 0-752 soluble salts. These answered 
to an alkalinity of 0-06 grms. of soda, NaOH, measured by phenol- 
phthalein. 

Here is a complete analysis of the ash of some of these aliments. 
We shall there notice the predominance of alkaline phosphates, 
especially of phosphate of potassium and the surprising richness 
in silica of some of these vegetables. 

Centesimal Composition of the Inorganic Mattek of some 
Vegetables. 





Asparagus. 


Onion. 


Cole- cabbage. 


Cauliflower. 


Water in 100 fresh parts 


94 


86 


87 


91 


Salt „ „ „ 


0-436 


0-74 


1-40 


0-99 


Composition of 100 parts 










of these salts : — 










K20 


24-0 


25-1 


26-8 


26-4 


Na20 


171 


3-2 


13-9 


10-2 


CaO 


10-9 


21-9 


14-8 


18-7 


MgO 


4-3 


5-3 


4-2 


2-3 


Fe203 


3-4 


4-5 


1-6 


0-4 


P205 


18-6 


15-0 


13-2 


131 


S03 


6-2 


5-5 


12-8 


11-4 


Si02 


10-1 


16-7 


5-2 


12-8 


CI 


5-9 


2-8 


7-5 


6-1 



* 2 06 of which are sugar. 



2 With only some traces of sugar. 
242 



VARIOUS VEGETABLES 

Tubercles : Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, Yams, etc. 

Potatoes. — It is the type of aliments stored up by the under- 
ground portion of the stem. It is found on the radical parts of 
the Solanum tuberosum, of the family of Solanacese, a plant im- 
ported from South America into Italy and Spain towards the 
middle of the sixteenth century, afterwards into England by Sir 
Walter Raleigh in 1586. In France since that time it has been 
cultivated in La Franche-Comte and Burgundy where it was 
introduced by the Spaniards, also in Lyonnais. But the unfor- 
tunate prejudice which for a long time asserted that it caused 
leprosy, prevented its general use until the seventeenth century, 
when Parmentier caused it to be definitely accepted. 

At the present time the potato, in addition to bread and meat, 
is the most general and valuable aliment. Since it has become 
popular we can say that famine has disappeared from Europe. 

The production of the potato, which in France alone was 
42,000,000 cwt. in 1852, reached 100,000,000 in 1862 and 
130,000,000 in 1896 in that country. 

To-day more than forty varieties of this valuable vegetable 
can be counted. 

The analyses carried out by M. Balland {C.R. t. CXXV, p. 429) 
on the principal kinds : Early Rose, Hollande, Pomme de terre 
d'Auvergne, de Bourgogne, Hative Saint-Jean, Royale bleue, 
Saucisse rouge, Mille yeux, Vilelotte, Rosace d'Allemagne, 
gave him when fresh the following results for 100 parts. 





Average. 


Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Water 


74-98 


66-10 


80-60 


Nitrogenous matters 


2-08 


1-43 


2-81 


Fatty matters 


0-15 


0-04 


0-14 


Starchy and sugary matters . 


21-01 


15-58 


29-85 


Cellulose 


0-69 


0-37 


0-68 


Ash 


1-09 


0-44 


1-80 



It will be noticed how small the amount of proteid materials 
is in this ahment ; M. Balland found 1-43 of nitrogenous matter 
in 100 fresh parts of Early Rose of Bresse ; 2-32 in 100 parts of the 
same variety cultivated in Brittany ; 1-78 in the Hollande of 
Gatinais ; 2-57 in the Hollande of Pontoise ; 1-51 in the saucisse 
rouge of Nievre and Gatinais. 

The proportion of water appears to be independent of tlie variety 
and to depend rather on the rain and the nature of the soil. The 
Early Rose gave 80-5 per cent, of water in Burgundy and 67-50 
in Brittany. 

The small new potatoes differ little in composition from those 
which are fully developed. 

243 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



The juice of the potato contains asparagin, mahc acid and a 
glucoside soluble in alcohol. 

Potatoes cooked in water do not appreciably change in weight. 
Fried in fat or oil, they retain about 38 per cent, of water and ab- 
sorb 4 to 9 per cent, of fatty matters. Three kgs. of potatoes 
cooked in water, or 1,200 grms. of fried potatoes, represent very 
nearly the nitrogenous and starchy alimentary matter in a 
kilogramme of ordinary white bread. 

The following analyses due to J. Herapath {Chem. Soc. Journ. 
II., 4°) give the composition of the mineral matters in some of 
the principal varieties of this valuable aliment : — 

Composition of the Ash of Potatoes (English Varieties). 



Ash for 100 parts of fresh plants 

Composition of 100 parts of ash : 
1st. Soluble ash : — 

C02 

S03 

P205 

K20 

Na20 

NaCl 

2nd. Insoluble ash : — 

C03Ca 

C03Mg 

SO^Ca 

(P04)2Ca3 

(PO*)2Mg3 

(P04)2re2 & Mn2 ... 
Si02 



White 
Apple. 



1-30 



21-06 

2-77 

5-72 

63-47 

Traces 



:0-84 

3-53 

Traces 
3-36 
9-25 

Traces 



100-00? 



Prince's 
Beauty. 



1-06 



16-67 

4-94 

8-92 

64-17 

Traces 



2-05 

0-27 

Traces 

0-68 

12-30 

Traces 



100-00 



1-09 



18-16 
5-60 
6-67 

56-73 

Traces 



1-95 
2-56 

Traces 
5-37 
6-54 

Traces 



100-00 



Fortyfold. 



0-88 



13-33 

6-78 
11-43 
63-03 

Traces 
2-09 

2-29 

0-57 

Traces 

2-86 

7-62 

Traces 



100-00 



These analyses show : — 

1st, the great richness of these ahments in potash, and the 
excess of this base over the quantity necessary to constitute the 
neutral phosphate. The potash, in the potato, is united princi- 
pally with citric and malic acid. 2nd, the very large proportion 
of magnesia in comparison with the lime. 3rd, the absence of 
chlorides and salts of soda, except in the case of one variety. 

According to Riibner, if a man is exclusively nourished with 
potatoes, 9 per cent, of the dr}'^ substance, 30 per cent, of nitrogen, 
and 7 per cent, of carbo-hydrates remain in the faeces which 
become soft, acid and fetid. On the contrary, purees of potatoes 
made with the addition of milk or butter are much better absorbed. 
There only remains in the intestines 4-5 per cent. Of substances 
calculated dry and 1 9 per cent, of nitrogen. The poverty of the 

244 



SWEET POTATOES, YAMS, ETC. 

potato in proteid principles, and these last observations, show 
that it is far from being a complete and sustaining food. But 
it has this advantage over bread that^ far from acidifying the blood 
as is the case with the latter, they alkalize it. Unfortunately they 
cause fatness and obesity. 

Siveet Potatoes, Yams, Jerusalem Artichokes, etc. — With regard 
to the other amylaceous tubercles, we shall confine ourselves to a 
few indications . — 

The sweet potatoes are formed by the ovoid tubercles, white 
or yellow, formed on the roots of the Convolvulus batatas. In 
taste and composition, the sweet potato very much resembles 
the ordinary potato. It is rich like the latter in fecula and poor 
in albuminoids. It contains : Water, 66 to 79 per cent. ; fecula, 
9 to 16 ; sugar, 10 to 2 ; fatty matter, 1 to 0-3 ; albuminoid 
matters, 1-2 to 1-5 ; salt, 2-6 to 3-5 per cent. 

Yams are also radical tubercles, often very developed (they 
may be more than a metre in length and almost that in diameter) 
formed on the roots of different dioscoreacese ; Dioscorea sativa, 
D. Batatas. These products are used for the nourishment of 
man in India, Guiana, China, Japan, Florida, Virginia, etc. 

The China yams answers to the following composition : Water, 
83-4 to 87 ; fecula, 15 to 16-8 ; cellulose, 0-4 to 1-5 ; proteid sub- 
stance, 2-4 to 2-6; pectates, citrates, phosphate of potassium, 
magnesium, calcium . . . . 1-4 to 2 per cent. We see that the 
yam is nearly as rich in starch as the potato, and a little less poor 
than the latter in proteid substances. 

Manioc is derived from the tubercles of a plant, the Jalropa 
mnnihot, of the family of the Euphorbiacese of the gioup of castor 
oil plants. It has two principal varieties : the Yuca dulce and 
the Yiica hrava ; the latter is poisonous owing to a hydrocyanic 
compound^ but after cooking it can be eaten with impunity. The 
tubercles of manioc, often very large, are coarsely grated, their 
pulp drained and then slightly roasted in an earthen vessel. Thus 
we obtain cassave, a food which forms the basis of alimentation 
in many countries of South America, India and the Antilles, etc. 

Payen [loc. cit.) has given for 100 fresh parts of tubercles of 
peeled manioc, the following composition : — 



Water ........ 


67-65 


Fecula ........ 


2310 


Sugars, gums, etc. ..>-.... 


5-53 


Nitrogenous matter ...... 


117 


Cellulose, pectose, etc. ..... 


1-50 


Fatty matters . . . . 


040 


Mineral substances ...... 


0-65 



1 Payen {Comptes Rendus, t. XLIV, p. 404) has recovered four milli- 
grammes of hydrocyanic acid from 100 grms. of pulp. It seems to be 
found in the form of a very unstable glucoside. 

245 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



The Jemsalem artichoke, or Hdianthus tvherosus, originally 
from Brazil, bears on its running stem a number of pedicle shoots 
the size of a pear, covered with a red and green outer skin, and 
containing in their interior a white translucid pulp formed of a 
cellular tissue containing inulin in place of starch, and a juice 
rich in sugar and different salts (tartrates, malates, citrates, phos- 
phates and sulphates). This pulp can be eaten when cooked, and 
much resembles the artichoke in taste, consistence and composi- 
tion. Its taste is slightly disagreeable. 100 parts, when fresh, 
contain : — 



100 parts contain in a fresh state 



Water 

Dextrin, incrystallizable sugar . 

Inulin 

Cellulose, etc 

Gums 

Glutin, albumin 

Oil, cericin 

Extractives 

Citrate and malate of potash 
Citrate and tartrate of lime . 
SO*K2,KCl,P04K2H,P04CaH,Si02 




100-00 



The bulbous chervil is a vegetable too little cultivated, of a 
rather delicate SAv^eetish taste. It is the fleshy and tliick root 
of the Choerophyllum bulhosum (umbelliferce). It has, according 
to Payen (C. Rend. t. XLIII, p. 770), the following percentage 
composition : — 



Water ........ 


. 636 


Fecula and congeners ..... 


. 28-6 


Cane sugar ....... 


1-2 


Albumin and other nitrogenous matters 


. 2-6 


Fatty matters ...... 


. 035 


Cellulose, pectose, pectic acid .... 


. 210 


Mineral substances ...... 


15 



The bulbous chervil is richer than the potato in feculent and 
albuminous substances. 

Roots : Turnip, Turnip Radish, Carrots, Salsify, etc. The 
turnip is the fleshy, spindle-shaped root of the Brassica napus 
esculenta. 

It is an aliment very rich in starch, of a slightly aromatic, 
sugary savour, slightly piquant, differing much in composition and 
taste according to the soil, climate and variety. 

246 



FLOURS OF AMYLACEOUS VEGETABLES 



The radish is the radical succulent part of the Brassica oleracea 
caulo-rapa. 

Salsify, the cultivated root of the Tragopogon pratensis, is 
also a starchy vegetable like viper's grass, the roots of which, 
spindle-shaped, black outside and white inside, contain chiefly 
some starches, mucilages and raannite. 

The carrot is the radical tap root, completely modified by 
kitchen garden culture, of the Dauca? carotta {umhelliferce). 
It is a fleshy, sweetened and perfumed root suitable for the nour- 
ishment of man and animals. It contains some starch, cane 
sugar, mannite, fatty and essential oils, a colouring hydro-carburet 
carottine, asparagin and some malates and phosphates of potas- 
sium and lime, etc. 

The tap fleshy root of another umbelliferse, the cultivated 
parsnip, is also a healthy aliment sweet to the taste and slightly 
aromatic. 

Here are some average analyses of these different roots : — 

Centesimal Analyses of some Comestible Roots (according to 
J. Koenig). 





Carrots. 


Rad- 
ishes. 


Tur- 
nips. 


Pars- 
nips. 


Radisti. 


Water 

Starchy matter, etc., non-nitrogenous 

Cellulosic substances 

Nitrogenous matters 

Fatty bodies 

Mineral matter 


86-8 
9-2 
1-5 
1-2 
0-3 
1-0 


85-9 
8-2 
1-7 
2-8 
0-21 
M7 


87-8 
8-2 
1-3 
1-5 
0-2 
0-9 


82-0 
}l4-l 

M 

0-5 
1-0 


86-9 

6-8 

1-6 
0-1 
1-0 



Beetroot is the fleshy and sweetened tap root of the Beta 
vulgaris. It is employed chiefly for the nourishment of cattle 
and the production of ordinary sugar. Its red variety eaten in 
salad appears frequently on our tables. The composition of the 
beetroot is very variable according to its culture and its variety. 

Here is the average analysis of the comestible beetroot : — 



Water 


. 87-50 


Starchy matter, sugars 


8-90 


Nitrogenous matter . 


1-34 


Cellulose 


0-98 


Fatty bodies 


0-14 


Ash 


M4 



Beetroot only contains from 6 to 15 per cent, of saccharose. 

Flours of Amylaceous Vegetables.— Vox ordinary alimentation 
and for invalids some comestible flours, of which I will only say 
a few words here, are prepared with the bulbs, tubercles and roots 
which we have just studied. 

Tapioca is a fecula obtained from manioc. In the course of the 
preparation of cassava (see p. 245) the pulp of manioc which is 
thrown on large strainers gives a juice which carries with it a 
certain number of grains of starch. They are collected, washed 

247 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

and diied in the air ; thus we obtain moussache. This starch, 
slightly heated whilst damp on metallic plates, swells, becomes 
translucid and takes the name of tapioca. It is an aliment es- 
sentially amylaceous, formed of agglomerated and elasticopaline 
lumps. Ordinary tapioca, which serves to make our soups, is 
often obtained, at the present time, by submitting to the same 
treatment the starch of rice or the fecula of potato. 

Arrowroot is a fecula coming from the Marantaindica{Amoma- 
cce) of the Antilles. Its grains, slightly translucid, almost trun- 
cated, give an agreeable jelly when cooked with water. This 
flour is often adulterated with the fecula of the potato. Arrow- 
root contains 0-9 per cent, of albumin and 84-41 per cent, of 
fecula. 

Sago contains 87 per cent, of starch and only some traces of 
albumin. It is obtained from the pith of different palms. It 
sometimes takes the place of tapioca. It is used in cases of slight 
enteritis, during convalescence, etc. 

Sahp is especially an invaHd food. It is furnished by the bulbs 
of different orchis. It contains gums, mucilages and much starch. 
On boiling with water it takes the consistence of jelly. It is 
supposed to be fairly nourishing. 



248 



f 



XXII 

MUSHROOMS — ^HERBACEOUS VEGETABLES — ^VEGETABLE FRUITS 

GREEN or herbaceous vegetables enter into our alimentation 
to a very appreciable extent. I have said elsewhere that, 
in usual French customs, these aHments represent, on an average, 
12 to 13 per cent, of the weight of the daUy portion, drinking 
water not included. 

They are, in general, poor in nutritive principles : we find 
few fatty bodies and little starch, sugar and albuminoid matter 
in them. None of them give, after cooking, more than 2 to 
3 per cent, of assimilable carbo-hydrates, amongst which we 
must reckon inosit, mucilages and gums, the assimilability of 
which is imperfect or doubtful. But, as has already been said, 
these aliments bring us an abundance of salts with organic 
acids (maUc, citric, tartaric, oxaUc, succinic, quinic, etc.) and of 
salts with alkaline or terreous alkaline bases, which furnish to the 
cells and blood the potassium, magnesia and lime which are 
indispensable to them. These matters vary in these products 
from 4 to 2 per cent. Green vegetables and fruits proper are 
therefore aliments at once refreshing and alkaHzing. 

These carbo-hydrates are : starch, inulin, dextrins, mucilages, 
cellulose and feebly digestive gums ; cane sugar, glucose and 
levulose, sometimes mannite and some special sugars such as 
erythrite, dulcite, sorbite, inosit, galactose, etc. 

The albuminoid matters of green vegetables are : — 

Albumins, non-precipitable by dilute acetic acid and coagul- 
able by heat ; caseins and vegetable legumins, substances very 
slightly soluble in water where they only appreciably dissolve in 
the state of salts of potassium and sodium. Weak acetic acid 
precipitates them from their solutions ; rather strong acids and 
alkalies, or their carbonates^ re-dissolve them. By hydrolysis, 
these legumins spUt up into amino-acids : leucin, tyrosin, 
glutanic and aspartic acids, etc. 

With these substances it is necessary to connect : — 

1st. The cyto and nucleoproteids which may contain from 1-5 to 
3 per cent, of phosphorus and which heat and water splits up 
into nucleinic acids and coagulated albuminoids. 

2nd. Edestin, a crystaUizable substance generally united to 

249 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

phosphoric acid, as we have abeady pointed out, in the grains 
of cereals (p. 216). It greatly resembles casein. 

3rd. Gliadin, or vegetable gelatin, soluble in water alcoholized 
to 70°. It is found in vegetables, likewise in cereals and fruits. 

4th. Conglutin, very similar to the preceding, having the same 
characters of solubiHty in water, acids and alkalies. It splits 
up, in the manner of legumin, during the action of digestion or 
under the action of dilute acids. 

The fats of herbaceous vegetables are variable and in very 
feeble proportions. We often find in them those lecithins of 
which we have already spoken a propos of dry vegetables and 
the flours of cereals. 

The green pigment of vegetables, chlorophyll, is a nitrogenous 
phosphorated colouring matter soluble in alcohol and ether and 
seems to be indigestible. 

In this chapter we shall study successively mushrooms, herba- 
ceous vegetables and vegetable fruits. 

Mushrooms. — These aliments, by reason of their taste and 
richness in nitrogenous principles, deserve to be considered apart. 
They contain in general : 90 to 92 per cent, of water, except 
truffles which only give 72 to 73 per cent. Their very diverse 
fixed principles are : — 

1st. Nitrogenous matters about which we have little informa- 
tion. Three-fourths consist of proteid substances insoluble in 
water. Out of 4 to 5 per cent, of nitrogenous bodies contained 
in ordinary comestible mushrooms and 8 to 10 per cent, in the 
truffle, there are only 0-8 to 1 per cent, of coagulable soluble 
albuminoids. A good part of the proteid bodies is then in the 
state of insoluble globulins and nucleo-albumins. Alcohol at 
70 per cent, carries off a part of the nitrogenous principles and 
with them the perfumes of these aliments. Another part is 
dissolved in water. When it is concentrated by heat, this 
solution takes somewhat the aspect and savour of extract of 
meat. Besides different nitrogenous substances, boiling water 
also dissolves some viscous or mucilaginous matters, probably 
of the nature of gums or starches, some fermentable sugars in 
a small quantity, dextrin, and above aU mannite, especially in the 
case of truffles. 

2nd. Ether carries off from mushrooms, especially in the case 
of truffles, some very odorous fatty matters in a relatively high 
proportion. They are to a large extent composed of olein and 
margarin and of a substance which alkalies do not saponify — viz. 
agaracin ; probably a kind of cholesterin. 

Of organic salts we find in mushrooms some malates, citrates, 
tannates, fumarates, pectates, etc.^ 

1 Fumaric acid should be absent in truflEles, according to Lefort. 

250 



HERBACEOUS VEGETABLES 

The white parts of truffles or ordinary mushrooms are formed 
chiefly of cellulose ; the coloured or black part is rich in spores 
and sporanges. Nothing is known of the nature of this special 
brown pigment. 

The mineral salts of mushrooms are chiefly formed of the 
phosphates of potash and lime with a small quantity of sulphates, 
chlorides and silicates of soda, ammonia, calcium, magnesia and 
iron. 

Here is a table of the composition of some of these aliments : — 



Percentage Composition of Some Mushrooms. 





Black 


Bed 

Mush- 
rooms. 


Esculent 


Morils. 


Edible 


Edible 




Truffle. 


Boletus. 


Boletus. 


Agaric. 


Water 


70-5 


90-5 


90-6 


90-0 


91-3 


90-10 


Nitrogenous matter 


8-4 


4-6 


4-9 


4-4 


3-6 


2-68 


Coagulable albumins . 


0-6 


0-7 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Cellulose .... 


5-2 


3-2 


2-44 


2-96 


0-6 


0-64 


Fatty matters . 


0-55 


0-25 


0-65 


0-56 


0-2 


0-13 


Mannits and sugars . 


11-00 


M5 


0-6 


0-72 


3-7^ 
0-6 J 




Malates, citrates, fuma- 


0-65 


1-35] 






5-14 


rates 






0-83 


1-36 




Mineral salts 


1-49 


- J 








1-31 



Mushrooms preserved by dessication still contain from 10 to 
20 per cent, of water. 

Several poisonous mushrooms, such as the woolly, lose their 
toxic properties by drying or boiling with water. 

Herbaceous Vegetables. — We comprise under this head the 
vegetables of which the leaves and tender parts are eaten, cooked 
or raw, such as salads of all sorts (lettuces, endive, corn-salad, 
cresses, rocket, etc.), sorrel, rhubarb, spinach, white Ijeet, tetragon, 
etc., etc. 

As we have already said, these products of the kitchen garden 
introduce into the system very little assimilable organic matter, 
but much water and especially salts rich in potash, soda, lime, 
magnesia, phosphates, silica, and finally iron under the form of 
hematogen, etc. Out of eight parts of fixed matters contained 
in 100 per cent, of fresh lettuce (the rest being formed of water), 
there are 1-24 per cent, of^mineral salts. Out of twelve fixed 
parts left by 100 per cent, of spinach taken in a fresh state, 
1-98 or a sixth is formed of inorganic salts. 

In 100 parts of ash left by Roman lettuce we find K^O = 25-3 ; 
Na^O = 35-3; CaO = 11-9; MgO = 4-3; Fe^O^ = 1-3. And 
for acid radicals : P^O^ = 10-9 ; 80=^ = 3-9 ; SiO^ = 3-0 ; 
CI = 4-2. In spinach we have for 100 parts of mineral matters 
K^O - 16-6 ; Na^O = 35-3 ; CaO = 11-9 ; MgO = 6-4 ; 

251 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Fe^O^ = 2-3 ; P^O^ = 10-2 ; 80=^ = 6-9 ; SiO^ = 4-5 ; CI - 6-3. 
The richness of this ash in bases will be noticed especially in 
alkaline bases, as also the abundance of iron. 

These aliments, essentially aqueous, contain however some 
albuminous substances richly phosphorated, lecithins, fats, also 
some mucilaginous and starchy matters which are easily assimil- 
able. As Kniriem has shown, a part of the cellulose of herba- 
ceous vegetables, when in the young state, is like that of fruits, 
re-absorbed in traversing the digestive tube. 

The total of all these nutritive matters rarely rises in the case 
of green vegetables to more than one-twentieth of the total weight 
of fresh aliment. 

The starch may be replaced in these products (and it always 
is in the comestible parts of the family of Synantheireae, such 
as chicory, lettuces, artichokes) by inulin ; this observation 
is important from the point of view of the alimentation of glyco- 
surics. In the place of ordinary sugar we sometimes find mannite 
in many of these foods. 

The intestinal utilization of herbaceous vegetables is always 
imperfect ; after the ingestion of the green cabbage, about 15 per 
cent, of fixed matters remain in the faeces, 18 per cent, of total 
nitrogen, 15 per cent, of carbo-hydrates, 6 per cent, of fatty 
bodies escape intestinal absorption. It is almost the same in 
the case of the other green vegetables. 

The cellulose of young shoots is digested by man in about 
the proportion of 50 per cent. The parts of these foods which 
remain thus in the fsecal matters prevent their becoming hard 
and hinders constipation ; hence the qualifjdng term " refresh- 
ing " often given to green vegetables. 

The herbaceous vegetables can be divided into neutral and 
aciduloits classes : Chicory, lettuces, corn-salad, dandelion, 
cardoon, beet, tetragon, celery, spinach, etc., come in the first 
category ; sorrel, rhubarb, etc., in the second. These vegetables 
are eaten cooked or raw. 

We can only quote here the chief : — 

Celery is formed of a young shoot, blanched by sheltering it 
from the direct action of light, of the Apium dulce (umbelliferae). 
It is an aromatic aliment rich in mucilage which contains an 
essence and some aromatic products acting a little on the 
heart ; it has the reputation of being somewhat aphrodisiac. 
Bleached dandelion, which is eaten in salad, is only a bitter and 
tonic chicory reared in caves protected from the light. 

Lamb's lettuce or corn-salad is a valerian. Lettuce is rich in 
alkaline citrates. White beet or beet, the leaves of which, and 
especially the stalks, eaten cooked like those of cardoon, contain 
a slightly laxative principle. It is a Chenopodiacese. It is 
the same with spinach {Spinacia oleracea) rich in mucilaginous 

252 



HERBACEOUS VEGETABLES 

principles and sugars, which accompany some oxalates and 
various organic salts of potassium and lime. 

The acid herbaceous vegetables owe their acidity sometimes to 
oxalates, sometimes to acid citrates and malates. 

Sorrel and rhubarb belong to the family of Polygoraceae ; 
their leaves and young shoots are eaten. These are aliments 
which should not be given to gouty, arthritic, uratic and oxaluric 
people. These vegetables owe their acidity to tetroxalate and 
bioxalate of potassium. 

Here is their composition according to M. Balland : — 







Rhubarb (petioles for 




Sorrel. 


entremets). 


Water 


91-40 


94-50 


Nitrogenous matters . 


2-74 


0-43 


Fatty matters .... 


0-40 


0-49 


Starches, etc 


3-57 


3-47 


Cellulose 


0-60 


0-54 


Ash 


1-29 


0-57 




100-00 


100-00 



Cresses of the family of Cruciferce, provide us with thick 
mucilaginous leaves, of a piquant taste, exciting the appetite 
owing to the allylic essence which they contain. This vegetable 
is very rich in salt. M. Chatin was the first to point out the 
iodine in it which appears to exist in the organic state. It is 
a diuretic, refreshing and anti-scorbutic aliment. 

Here is, according to J. Koenig and M. Balland, the com- 
position of some of the vegetables of which we have just 
spoken : — 

Percentage Composition of some Common Vegetables. 





Spinach. 

88-47 
3-49 
0-58 
0-10 
4-34 
0-93 
2-09 


Celery 
(leaves). 


Cos 
Lettuce. 


Cabbage 
Lettuce. 


Cresses.i 


Eed 

Beetroot 
for salad.i 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters 
Fatty matters . 

Sugar 

Gum, starch, mucilages 
Cellulose .... 
Ash 


85-57 
2-26 
0-56 
0-94 
6-91 
1-32 
1-93 


92-50 
1-26 
0-54 

3-55 
1-17 
0-98 


94-93 
1-41 
0-31 

— \ 
2-19 / 
0-73 
1-03 


90-8 

2-87 
0-21 

3-19 

1-21 
1-72 


84-80 
3-09 
0-05 

9-14 

1-18 
1-74 



Vegetable Fruits. — The vegetable fruits are the tomato, mad- 
apple, all-spice, etc. ; and to these may be added cucumbers, 
melon, pumpkin, etc. 

The fruit of Lycopersicum solanum or tomato is a red berry 

^ According to M. Balland. 

253 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

fiUed with an acid pulp at the same time slightly perfumed and 
of a sHghtly disagreeable taste. It is rich in acid salts (citrates, 
malates) ; but contrary to general opinion, scarcely a trace of 
oxalates is found. Tliis fruit agrees particularly with arthritics, 
gouty and uratic people when their stomach digests it well. 

Tomato contains, according to W. Dahlen : ivater, 92-37 ; 
nitrogenous matters, 1-25 ; fatty matters, 0-33 ; sugars, 2-53 ; Twn- 
nitrogenou^ matters, 1-54 ; cellulosic matters, 0-84 ; ash, 0-63. 
Balland found 95-2 per cent, of water ; 0-89 of nitrogenous matters 
and 2-92 of non-nitrogenous soluble substances (sugars, etc.). 

The fruit of Solanum melongena, or egg plant, which grew 
originally in India, forms elongated berries, of purple colour,^ 
filled with a white bitter juice which is generally squeezed out by 
cutting up and draining the pulp, the pungency of which dis- 
appears on cooking. It is a fairly digestible aHment if well 
cooked, but it is difficult to prepare. Balland found : water, 92-30 ; 
nitrogenous mutter, 1-34; fatty mutter, 0- 11 ; extractive or starchy 
mutter, ^•ll ; cellulose, 0-87 ; ash, 0-55. 

Of fruits of the Capsicum, and coming from the same family, 
there are many varieties. One kind, sweet, in large inflated 
berries, more than a decimetre in length, is much eaten as a 
hors-d'oeuvre in the South of Europe. Its episperm is filled 
with a sweetish pulp, shghtly perfumed, containing seeds that 
are thrown away. A variety of this fruit from 2 to 5 centimetres 
in length, of a vivid red colour when ripe, is used as a condiment 
to flavour dishes and to excite the appetite by reason of its sharp 
and aromatic savour. 

The Chin of Cayenne, of a still more violent bitterness and 
very slight aroma, is dried, pulverized and sometimes used in 
place of pepper; it is a dangerous condiment if habitually used. 

Melon, water-melon, cucumber, pumpkin, gherkin, and gourd, 
are furnished by the family of the Cucurbitaceae. 

The fruit of the melon {Gucumis melo) is succulent, very 
aqueous, shghtly albuminous, rich in saccharose, scented when 
ripe and of good quahty, but very sHghtly nutritive. Its seeds 
are shghtly emetic. 

Cucumber {Cucumis sativus) has an aqueous, tasteless pulp, 
shghtly sweet. It is often eaten pickled in vinegar, raw or cooked 
and prepared in different ways. 

Gherkin is a kind of cucumber gathered before its maturity. 
The caper is the httle ovoid fruit of the caper bush (Capparidea^). 
Both are preserved in vinegar and serve as condiments. 

The water-melon is especially sought after for the sweetness 
of its pulp which is composed almost entirely of water and 
saccharose. 

1 The white vtiriety is poisonous. 

254 



PUMPKIN, GOURD, ETC. 

Here are, according to J. Koenig and M. Balland, three average 
analyses of melons, cucumbers and pumpkins : — 





Melon. 


Cucumber. 


Ordinary Pumpkin. 


Water .... 

Nitrogenous matter 

Fatty matter . 

Starches, sugars, etc. 

Cellulose 

Ash .... 






90-38 
1-0 
0-32 
6-53 
1-09 
0-68 


95-20 
1-18 
0-09 
2-21 
0-78 
0-44 


94-5 
0-35 
0-06 
4-08 
0-64 
0-37 









The pumpkin, red or yellow, forms big flattened fruits weigh- 
ing as much as 10 and 20 kgs. Its pulp, which is rather 
hard, is eaten after cooking. It is sweet in taste, slightly aro- 
matic and easy to digest. It is a very aqueous aliment. Its 
whitish seeds, tasting of almond, are anthelmintic. 

The gourd or calabash produces some comestible and poisonous 
varieties, particularly that in the form of a gourd. That with 
yellow pulp is very bitter. 

Gourd contains 85 per cent, of water and 0-4 per cent, of 
mineral matter. 

In fruits with neutral pulp, or almost neutral to litmus, such 
as the melon, water-melon, etc., the sugar is chiefly saccharose, 
but we may also find some levulose and levogyrate matters with 
considerable left rotation, the proportion of which varies during 
the whole time of ripening (Commaille). 



255 



XXIII 

FRUITS PROPERLY SO CALLED 

FROM the point of view of their composition and their utility, 
the fruits wliieh appear on our tables for " dessert," and 
which form an agreeable and rational addition to the repast, may 
be divided into three groups : — 

The aqueous acidul&us fruits, generally sweetened and perfumed, 
which the vine, orange-tree, gooseberry bush, and especially the 
trees of the family of the Rosaceae, provide us with. 

The properly so called sweetened fruits, of a flavour neither acid 
nor fatty, produced by the fig, date and banana trees, etc. 

Lastly, the starchy or oily fruits — nuts, chestnuts, almonds, 
hazel-nuts, cocoa, cocoanut and other exotic fruits. 

Aqv£cms Acidulous Fruits. — ^To this group belong apples and 
pears with their very numerous varieties ; plums, peaches, apricots, 
nectarines, quinces, cherries, medlars, strawberries, raspberries, 
etc., aU furnished by the Rosaceae; grapes, currants, black cur- 
rants, pine-apples, orange, lemon, pomegranate, etc., originally 
come from very different famihes, etc., and some fruits from 
tropical coimtries. 

These fruits are all remarkable for their richness in water (72 
to 90 per cent.) ; their very feeble amount of starchy matters, 
which almost entirely vanishes when ripe ; their poorness 
in albuminous principles, the total weight of which rarely rises 
to h per cent. ; their richness in saccharin, which varies from 4 to 
24 per cent. ; their constant acidity, and finally for this very 
agreeable perfume of their juice. A part of their cellulose 
becomes soluble in the intestines of man. These fruits are then 
in reahty rather aqueous, refreshing ahments, more pleasing to 
the stomach and palate than plastic aliments, unless they are 
consumed in very great abundance, as in the grape cure. 

Their acidity, due in a large measure to some acid salts (malates, 
citrates, tartrates, fumarates, etc.), varies from 0-2 to 1-5 per cent. 
These salts, with alkaline bases, are transformed in the system by 
the complete combustion of their organic part into soluble carbon- 
ates which alkalize the humours, as we have already said. 

256 



FRUITS OF ROSACE.E 

At the same time, by reason of the quantity of water that they 
provide and their special acidity, these fruits are, moreover, 
often a Httle diuretic and laxative, especially if they are not 
perfectly ripe. 

The saccharin matters which form the greater part of the 
substances dissolved in their pulp, are formed by a mixture, in 
nearly equal parts when ripe, of glucose and levulose with a little 
saccharose. 

Here is the average percentage composition of some of the 
principal fruits furnished by the Rosacese : — 

Composition of the Usual Vabiotts Fruits of the Rosacese. 



• 


Applesi 
(average). 


Pears. 


Plums. 

8118 

0-78 
0-85 
6-15 
4-92 

5-41 
0-71 


Green- 
gages.3 


Dried 
Prunes, 
Selected. 


Mirabelle 
Plums.6 


Water 

Albuminoid matters, etc. 
Free acid 2 . . . . 

Sugar 

Various non-nitrogenous 
matters 

Cellulose 

Ash 


84-79 
0-36 

0-82 
7-22 
4-81 

1-51 
0-49 


83-03 
0-36 
0-20 
8-26 
3-54 

4-30 
0-31 


78-30 
0-42 
0-38 

10-9 

9-28< 

0-62 
0-48 


19-80 
2-37 

46-3 
25-145 

4-13 
1-86 


79-4 
0-4 
0-5 
4-0 

10-1 

5-0 
0-6 



Composition of the Usual Fruits of the Rosacea (continued). 



Water 

Albuminoid matters, etc. 
Free acid 2 . . . . 

Sugar 

Various non-nitrogenous 
matters 

Cellulose 

Ash 





Apri- 
cots. 






straw- 


Peaches. 


Cherries. 


Quinces .7 


berries 








(average). 


80-0 


81-2 


79-82 


71-70 


87-66 


0-6 


0-5 


0-67 


1-12 


0-54 


0-9 


1-2 


0-91 


0-61 


0-93 


4.59 


4.78 


10-24 


6-70 


6-28 


7-2 


6-3 


1-76 


0-693 


1-01 


6-1 


5-3 


6-07 


18-79 


2-32 


0-7 


0-8 


0-73 


0-47 


0-81 



Rasp- 
berries. 



85-7 
0-4 
1-4 
3.9 
0-7 

7-4 
0-5 



1 According to J. Jacquemin and H. AUiot, a typical apple, ripened to 
a nicety for making cider, contains for 100 parts : water, 83-2 ; sugar, 
11; vegetable tissue, cellulose, 3; gums, pectase, 21; albumin, 0-20; 
malic, pectic, tannic, gallic acids ; lime, acetates, alkalies, oily and nitro- 
genous matters, 0-50. 

2 Expressed in weight of malic acid. 

3 Fatty matters. 

* 0-24 of which are fatty matters. 
5 0-40 of which are fatty matters. 
^ M. Balland's analysis. 

■^ This weight of sugar appears small ; Balland has given 8-9 of sugar 
as an average. 

8 According to Balland, 81 of sugar. 
8 According to Balland, 6-2 ofjsugar. 

257 s 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

1000 grms. of these various fruits leave an ash composed, 
according to Moleschott : — 

Composition of Ash of 1,000 pabts of Diffekent Fbuits. 





Apples. 


Pears. 
3-57 


Plums. 


Cherries. 


Straw- 
berries. 


Total ash for 1,000 fresh parts . 


3-65 
1-30 


4-80 


6-58 


7-56 


K20 


1-96 


2-63 


3-41 


1-77 


Na20 


0-95 


0-31 


0-42 


0-08 


2-27 


CaO 


015 


0-29 


0-23 


0-49 


1-20 


MgO 


0-32 


0-19 


0-22 


0-35 


Traces 


Fe203 


0-05 


004 


012 


0-12 


0-50 


P205 


0-50 


0-54 


0-85 


1-05 


105 


S03 


0-22 


019 


015 


0-34 


0-33 


Si02 


016 


0-05 


015 


0-60 


0-20 


NaCl 


— 


Traces 


0-03 


014 


0-24 



Let us again here note the simultaneous predominance in these 
ashes of potash and phosphoric acid, this latter moreover still 
being insufficient, even with the co-operation of the other acid 
radicals, to saturate the whole of the bases. Soda is relatively 
very abundant in the strawberry, also iron and lime, whereas 
there is a lack of magnesia in it. Figs, pears and plums give some 
traces of manganese. 

In fruits arrived at maturity but kept dry, such as dried apples 
and pears, dried figs, raisins, prunes, etc., the water falls to 33 
and even 30 per cent. 

All these fruits are too well known, there should be any necessity 
for me to give here a detailed description. They provide, besides, 
innumerable varieties which are distinguished by their taste, 
perfume, and their capabihty for cultivation in most different 
climates. 

The apricot comes to us from China. Its very bitter grains 
contain 74 per cent, of water and 18 per cent, of nitrogenous 
matters. They are fairly rich in a hydrocyanic glycoside. Those 
of the plum contain 45-5 per cent, of water, 7 to 8 per cent, of 
nitrogenous matters and 29 per cent, of oil. The peach which, 
in spite of its name (persica), has the same origin as the apricot, 
contains a kernel which may give per 1,000 grms. as much as 64 
milligrammes of hydrocyanic acid (Balland). The alimentary 
qualities of these three kinds of fruit are too well known to need 
any description here. Their percentage composition shows us 
sufficiently their small intrinsic alimentary value. 

The pear tree and apple tree are older than man in Europe. 
There are to-day innumerable varieties. Many kinds are eaten 
at our tables, others made into perry or cider. 

The strawberry is also indigenous to our regions.. The smaU: 
wild strawberries have given to M. Balland : Wat^; 85-6 ; nitrot 

258 ■ " • 



FRUITS 



genous matter, 1-36 ; fatty matter, 0-99 ; extractives, 8-85 (3-7 
of which are sugar) ; cellulose, 2-56 ; ash, 0-64 per cent. We know 
that they contain a salicylic derivative which often provokes skin 
eruptions and which is strongly irritant. 

To the fruits of the Rosacese we must add those that other fami- 
lies provide us with {Ampelidece, Grossulariece, Aurantiacece, etc.). 

We shall confine ourselves here by giving the composition of the 
grape, orange, currant and pomegranate. Except in the case 
of black grapes, we are again indebted to M. Balland for the 
analyses.^ 



Percentage Composition 


OF ORDINARY FrUITS BELONGING TO VARIOUS 






Families. 








Chasselas 












Currant. 


Black 
Grape. 


Grape. 

Whole 

with skin 

and 


Chasselas 
Grape. 
Pulp 
only. 


Dried 

Raisin. 

Pulp 

and 


Orange. 


Pome- 
granate 
Pulp 
without 








grape 


Skin. 




seeds. 




92-90 


78-17 


stones. 
80-00 


81-80 








Water .... 


19-80 


86-70 


84-20 


Nitrogenous matter 


0-31 


1-90 


0-49 


0-36 


0-45 


0-69 


0-59 


Fatty 


0-65 


— 


0-38 


0-31 


0-56 


0-26 


0-15 


Sugared „ 


5-462 


14-36 


17-69 


17-233 


76-70 


11-43^ 


11-86 


Extractives and 


1-43 


0-59 


1-24 


0-23 


1-85 


0-93 


2-91 


cellulose 
















Ash .... 


0-15 


— 


0-20 


0-07 


0-64 


0-28 


0-29 


Acidity 


— 


0-79 


0-20 


0-198 


100-00 


100-00 


0-220 




100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 



The currant, unknown to the Greeks and Romans, comes to us 
from Northern Europe, Siberia and Canada. 

The vine is indigenous to Europe, Asia and Africa. The natural 
acidity of its fruit, expressed in sulphuric acid, varies from 0-03 
grms. to 1-2 per cent. The volatile acids do not contribute to it. 
Its sugar may reach 25 grms. and more for 100 grms. of pulp, 
especially in the case of white vines and in warm countries. 

The lemon, so often employed as a condiment, possesses an 
acidity pleasing to the stomach. Its juice and pulp have been 
prescribed in large doses, and it appears not without success, in 
many diseases : in dropsy, yellow fever, scurvy, etc. The citron 
in sufficient doses appears to be endowed with a pronounced 
diuretic power (Trinkowsky). 

With the aqueous acidulous fruits containing 4 to 10 per cent, 
of acid (estimated in corresponding HCl) we shall place the neutral 
or sugared fruits, of which the banana, fig, date, etc., are types. 



Annalcs (Thygiene et de medecine legale, August 1 900. 
4-9 of which are sugar. 
16-6 of which are sugar. 
6-2 of which are sugar. 

259 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



The family Morus provide us with numerous varieties of figs : 
violet, green, grey, and white. Nearly all are rich in sugar and 
well perfumed at maturity. 

Here is, according to M. Balland, the comparative analysis of 
fruits in a fresh and dry state : — 





Fresh. 


Dry. 


Water .... 

Nitrogenous matter 

Fatty matter . 

Extractives 

Cellulose 

Ash .... 






84-80 
0-79 
0-32 

12-151 
1-23 
0-71 


0-00 
5-20 
2-10 
79-94 
8-06 
4-70 












100-00 


100-00 



The date, produced by the Phenix dactylifera (Palm family), is 
a fruit with a resisting sweet and aromatic pulp. It forms the 
principal nourishment of the population of many countries of 
Northern Africa, Persia and India. The following analyses give 
their composition : — 



For 100 parts of fresh fruit. 


Morin. 


Balland. 


Water 


43-6 


24-50 


Albuminoid and pectic matters 


2-9 


1-96 


Tannic acid and glucose 


47-9 


07-102 


Inulin 


Traces 


— 


Fatty matters 


0-4 


0-OG 


Cellulose 


1-9 


5-05 


Mineral matters 


3-3 


1-32 



The banana, originating from Southern Africa, provides alimen- 
tation for numerous people in the tropics, and is even used to 
make a special kind of bread. Here is the analysis of its pulp 
in a fresh state and of the flour which it provides^ : — 



Pulp. 



Flour. 



Water 

Cane sugar .... 
Inverted sugar 

Starch 

Cellulose 

Pectose 

Nitrogenous matter . 
Organic acids, extractives 
Mineral matters . 




66-1 
1-6 
14 
29 

2-2 



^ 8-3 of which are svxgar. 2 5]. 3 of which are sugar. 

3 M^rcano and A. Miintz, C. Rend. t. LXXXVIII, p. 158. 
260 



STARCHY FRUITS 

The ash of this fruit is very alkahne and formed of phosphate 
of potash with a little phosphate of soda ; chloride of potassium 
constitutes about a quarter of its weight. 

The starchy or oily fruits such as the nut, almond, chestnut, 
hazel-nut, cocoa and the fruit of the bread tree, etc., differ very 
notably from the preceding by their richness either in starch, 
sugar, oil or fats. These latter may rise even to 75 per cent. 
They are also further removed from them by their relative poverty 
in water,which rarely rises above 30 to 33 per cent, in fresh fruit ; 
finally, by their nutritive value which is somewhat high. Here 
are some analyses of these aliments. The three first are from M. 
Balland {loc. cit.) : — 



Percentage Analysis of some Starchy or Oily Fruits. 





Nuts. 
(October). 


Hazel-nuts 
(January). 


Sweet 

Fresh 

Almonds. 


Almonds 

of 
Cacoyer. 


Chestnuts. 


Proteid matters 

Fats and oils 

Alkaloids . 

Various sugars, etc. 

Cellulose 

Starch .... 

Ash 

Water .... 


11-05 
41-98 

17-5 
1-6 

1-30 
26-50 


15-58 
61-16 

13-22 
3-84 

2-70 
3-50 


5-67 
2-19 

0-42 
0-39 

0-96 
88-0 


13-18 

45-49 

1-5-2 

0-3-2-6 

5-80 

14-18 

3-5 

5-6-6-3 


4-46 

0-87 

19-90 
3-79 

16-55 
1-51 

53-71 



The almonds of the amygdaleae all contain a small quantity 
of asparagin (L. Portes). 

It is quite remarkable to see in some of these fruits (nuts, 
almonds), the starch almost entirely disappear as in the acidulous 
and aqueous fruits ; in the case of others, such as the chestnut, 
we still find from 13 to 15 per cent, in the ripe fruit. 

The bread tree (Artocarpaceaj) produces a greenish fruit, of 
the size of the head, containing near its surface 40 to 50 seeds 
similar to chestnuts and which are eaten roasted. The pulp which 
surrounds them, and which constitutes the principal part of this 
fine fruit, is richer in starch than proteid substances. The people 
of the Malay Peninsula and Oceania cook this pulp and feed on 
it like bread.^ 



1 In the same family the Brosimum galactodendron or cow-tree give, 
on incision, a milk thicker than that of the cow, but of slightly acid 
reaction, on which the Indians of South America nourish themselves 
(Boussingault, Comptes Rendus, t. LXXXVII, p. 277). This vegetable 
pseudo-milk contains a waxy material fusible at 50°, partly saponifiable 
by alkalies ; a nitrogenous substance analogous to casein ; some saccharin 

261 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



To the oily fruits .we must naturally add the olive, from which, 
when ripe, we extract the ordinary oil. This fruit is not usually 
oily when it appears as a hors d'oeuvre on our tables. In fact, 
the olive is eaten in two ways : when quite green, before matura- 
tion, after being deprived of a sharp and extremely bitter matter 
by means of repeated digestions for several weeks in alkalized 
water. It is then kept in brine and afterwards eaten cooked or 
uncooked. Or else it is left to ripen on the tree until November, 
to shrivel up and grow black, then salted and eaten with a Uttle 
oil, pepper and salt as an aperient. 

According to the time of picking, this fruit has a very different 
taste and composition : the proportion of water, which was from 
60 to 70 per cent, in the green fruit, falls to 25 per cent, in the ripe 
fruit. The very sharp and bitter substance found in the olive 
before ripening disappears to a great extent when the olive becomes 
black. In the green state we do not find there, or in very small 
quantities, any fatty principles, but it is rich in chlorophyll and 
mannite. These two last principles disappear and are gradually 
replaced by oil, in proportion as the fruit ripens (De Lucca, C. 
Rend., t. LIII, p. 380 ; t. LV, pp. 470, 506 ; t. LVII, p. 520). 

Here are the analyses due to M. Balland {loc. cit.) of two kinds 
of comestible olives kept in pickle : — 





Long Olive. 


Short Olive. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matter 

Fatty matter 

Extractives 

C!ellulose 

Ash 


75-40 
0-76 

14-48 
8-04 
0-90 
0-42 

100-00 


73-30 
0-67 

14-03 
9-81 
1-81 
0-38 




100-00 



matters, some salts of potash, lime and magnesia. Boussingault has 

found tlie following composition for this milk : 

Wax and saponifiable matters . . . . . 35 2 

Saccharin matters, etc. ...... 2-8 

Casein, albumin . . . . . . .1-7 

Alkaline and terreous phosphates ..... 0-5 

Undetermined matters . . . . . .1-8 

Water 58 

We see that this product slightly resembles ordinary milk. 



262 



I 



r 



i 



XXIV 

AKOMATIC AND NERVINE ALIMENTS — COFFEE — TEA — COCOA — ' 

MATE, ETC. 

APROPOS of aromatic aliments, which we shall now study, 
we shall here set out a series of considerations which we 
have not yet had occasion to develop, in reference to the various 
parts aliments play in the organisms. They are indispensable 
before going further. 

Take the case of a man fatigued, ill, exhausted by acute pain, 
or simply seized with migraine. He is incapable of making the 
least effort. He is given a hypodermic injection of ether, or of 
benzoate of caffein in the first case, morphia in the second ; he 
drinks a warm infusion of paulinia in the third ; almost at once 
his forces revive, the pain is eased, the aptitude for physical or 
intellectual work is renewed, the functions become active and 
regular. The four agents used in these circumstances, ether, 
benzoate of caffein, morphia, paulinia, are however materials 
entirely unfit to furnish by themselves (not being sensibly trans- 
formed in tiie system) an appreciable quantity of utilizable 
energy ; but they have the power of acting on the nerve centres, 
either to excite their activity or to ease the pain and to cause the 
nervous inhibitory action which it provokes, to disappear. These 
four substances are fitted in short to momentarily place the 
organism in a state of resistance or activity which allows it to 
react against the physical or functional decay which formerly 
prevented it utilizing its reserves. 

From these medicaments, called nervines, to the stimulating 
aliments of which we are about to speak, there is only one step. 

When to a tired man, overdriven by work, starved by watchings 
or want of food, we give a little alcohol, coffee, chocolate, a cup 
of soup, and as soon as the absorbed food and even before its assimil- 
able parts could have had time to pass into the vessels, the sensation 
of well-being, energy and the forces revive, we must admit that 
the patient thus treated has found in these aliments the comfort 
of which he already feels, before they are scarcely absorbed, the 
source and the effective cause of the energy of which he becomes 
immediately capable. These foods have then acted on the 
nerves, which they have put in tension ; they have caused the 
opposing influence created by fatigue, pain, inanition and perhaps 
toxins, to disappear. They have permitted momentarily the 

263 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

individual in a state of collapse to consume, at the expense of 
his reserves, fats, sugars, nitrogenous matters, etc., tUl then indis- 
posable, and from which he is able to draw henceforth utHizable 
energy. 

These nerve-exciting aliments may contain, and often do 
contain, like cocoa, alcohol, broth, etc., combustible principles 
fitted to furnish energy to the animal system by their ulterior 
transformation ; in this case, they act first as aliments proper 
and as excitors of the centres of activity : heart, brain, sympathetic, 
etc. 

But, if this aptitude of reinforcing the nervous actions which 
preside over the vital functions, or which cause the inhibition 
of the trophic centres provoked by fatigue, to cease, if this aptitude 
is particularly remarkable in coffee, tea, cocoa, alcohol, etc., 
it does not the less exist, although in a less degree, in all the 
other aliments. The sapid, odorous and aromatic properties 
of roast meat ; those of vegetables, of sweetened fruits ; those 
of the majority of dishes which please us, act equally on us 
distinctly before the principles which convey these properties 
have had time to contribute, by their assimilation and com- 
bustion, to the expenditure of energy necessary to function. 
A man is thirsty : he drinks abundantly and his thirst is immedi- 
ately quenched before the water he has scarcely swallowed has 
penetrated as far as his blood. In the same way, hunger is 
appeased directly the stomach receives nourishment, and well 
before any of the ahmentary principles, save the most volatile 
perhaps, have been re-absorbed. Deprived of everything in his 
terrible voyage to the North Pole, Nansen relates that he drank 
with delight the blood of seals which he succeeded in killing. This 
feeling of relief came to him the very moment when this blood 
penetrated into his stomach, before any part of it could have been 
really utilized. This was nevertheless neither a very savoury, 
rapidly digestible, nor diffusible aliment. 

Besides their directly nutritive action, all aliments exercise then 
an exciting action on our nerves, and before nourishing us they 
dispose us to function, thanks to the reflexes of the gustatory, 
olfactory and digestive nerves which they awaken. They stimu- 
late the trophic, assimilate ry and even psychic nerve centres 
before penetrating into the blood. 

This aptitude of thus placing the system in a state to resist 
fatigue, of furnishing more work, and of rapidly producing in a 
short time an amount of energy that it could only expend more 
slowly before receiving the exciting agent, seems to be particularly 
remarkable in the case of the alimentary products of which we 
are about to speak, in this respect — that the excitations which 
they provide, reach instantly a degree to which the usual aliments 
cannot always attain. Like the blow of the whip which draws 

264 



NERVINE ALIMENTS 

yet another effort from the used-up horse, at the end of his 
strength, in spite of the oats which he is meanwhile digesting, these 
ahments can rouse the organism to the point of excitation neces- 
sary for the excess of the momentary production of energy which 
it is desirable to obtain. An observation which I made by 
chance, appears to me suitable to explain these views. It hap- 
pened that a mule, a very beautiful animal, refused for some 
months, every time he was harnessed, to a heavy cart, to make 
the effort that was demanded of him. Neither hay, oats nor 
blows were of any avail. He was about to be sold again, when 
a farm servant proposed to apply to him the means which he 
said they employed at his home to overcome the resistance of 
these beasts when they do not feel capable of doing the work 
which one expects from them. There was then added to his 
usual food two litres of wine daily, a very small quantity com- 
pared to the size of this animal, weighing as much as seven average 
men. From that day, and as long as the wine was mixed with 
its daily food, this mule did the best work. I saw it a year after, 
always on the same diet and always undaunted and resisting 
fatigue. 

Thus this beast, which received oats in abundance and hay 
at discretion, would only furnish the effort necessary under the 
action of the special excitor which raised his nervous system to a 
state of sufficient tension. It is this state which ordinary food, 
provided that it be abundant, makes the highly bred animal, 
such as the racehorse, which is able suddenly to make a con- 
siderable effort which the ordinary horse cannot furnish, reach 
a state of tension to which the latter can nevertheless sometimes 
reach under the influence of stimulants which pure blood is able 
to do without. 

These exciting aliments are not then sparing aliments as they 
are sometimes called ; they do not diminish the expenditure for 
the production of a given amount of work. The activity which 
they impress on the system only finds in them the excitant 
which puts into action the virtual energy of ordinary aliments. 
Its productive source is not found in these excitants. Allowance 
being made for the small proportion of assimilable alimentary 
matters which these agents may bring, the energy developed 
under their influence is entirely borrowed from the destruc- 
tion of true aliments, and is proportional in every case to this 
destruction. 

But we know that this expenditure of energy is composed of 
two quite distinct parts : the loss in caloric and the production 
of mechanical work. In the normal state and in the case of a 
healthy man, we have seen that this work only represents 8*5 to 
10 per cent, of the total energy introduced by the aliments, and 
that a good workman can only furnish in the form of useful work, 

265 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

65 to 9 per cent, of alimentary energy, cutaneous evaporation 
and caloric radiation representing fourteen-fifteenths of the total 
energy expended (see page 98) . Now it is possible that under the 
influence of the nervine aliments a larger proportion of the 
disposable energy may be transformed into work : that the 
system, in short, may be put into such a state, that its output in 
heat being proportionally diminished, its yield in work is increased 
by a like amount. This hypothesis is moreover more plausible 
when we know that several of these nervine agents, coffee in 
particular, raise the central temperature whilst diminishing that 
of the periphery and, in consequence, thus diminishing the 
expenditure of heat lost b)'^ radiation and contact. Besides, this 
hypothesis of a more feeble loss of caloric energy by the skin 
under certain influences acting on the nervous system only, 
causes the same to take place in a healthy man as in the case of a 
febrile one. Here, manifestly, and for reasons of which the 
mechanism is in the innervation of the subject, the invalid, for 
a restricted diet, produces more heat than in the normal state, 
while at the same time he is incapable of furnishing a work pro- 
portional to the heat which he radiates, at least in the proportion in 
which the mechanical energy could produce itself, if he were in 
health. We see then that if the malady diminishes the aptitude for 
the production of work relative to the disposable and radiated heat, 
tlie improvement in the state of the individual, its tension under 
the influence of nervine stimulants, may reciprocally increase the 
aptitude to draw more work from a similar alimentation. 

As Pawlow has proved, the aliments act upon the stomach, 
and even upon the intestine, first by a psychic effect. The dog 
to which one offers meat, before he has swallowed it, already 
secretes abundantly a special gastric juice which makes him 
capable of receiving and digesting it. All the foods which by 
their taste please us and dispose us to employ them freely, act in 
the same way. Thus, we are influenced by the variety of the 
dishes at meals, the refined culinary preparations, and, in the 
summary feeding of the poor, by a little wine, spices, alcohol or 
coffee. 

Aromatic or gustatory foods may act as aliments of economy 
by diminishing the nutritive changes and by moderating disin- 
tegration. All aromatic principles, indeed, and ordinary alcohol 
itself, tend to reduce the changes which are produced in our 
tissues, and the excretion of urinary nitrogen. But they diminish 
proportionally the oxygen consumed, the carbonic acid exhaled, 
and reduce the temperature of the subject. The aromatic 
medicamental or alimentary principles definitely moderate the 
vital action after having sometimes raised it by means of reflex 
actions which they provoke at the beginning. But in these 
cases, to this sparing or diminution of dissimilation there is no 

266 



NERVINE ALIMENTS 

corresponding proportional profit in the yield in caloric or mechan- 
ical energy of the animal machine. Here therefore we have not 
real aliments of economy. 

It has been suggested that the aliments called nervines diminish 
the proportion of the expenditure which functioning calls forth. 
There may be produced, indeed, under the influence of these 
agents a better general use of the alimentary ration ; but experi- 
ence has shown that these exciting substances do neither prolong 
nor preserve the life of the animals, still less increase their weight, 
when, while being insufficiently nourished, these excitants are 
added to their daily ration. 

Is it possible, at least by their means, to maintain normally 
functions with a less expenditure of proteid materials, reserving 
the right of replacing the proportion of albuminoid substances 
thus saved by an isodynamic quantity of fats, sugar or starch ? 
In a word, can we, by means of nervine aliments, diminish 
the wear and tear of the animal machine and consequently the 
daily need of the proteid matters ? This hypothesis seems to 
be in certain cases conformable with facts : Borker has found 
that in the case of individuals doing an unvaried work, the 
addition of coffee to the alimentation increased the volume of 
the urines in diminishing the excretion of the urea and that of 
phospiioric acid, whilst allowing of the preservation of health, 
weight and the strength of the subject. With a daily ration 
where the nitrogenized aliments are extremely reduced, there 
are populations of South America, Africa and the islands of tlie 
Indian Ocean, where these nervine aliments are consumed in 
abundance, and who can produce a considerable aggregate of daily 
work. The strongly spiced rice of the Malays or Japanese, 
the couscous of the Arab washed down by many cups of coffee, 
the bread rubbed with garlic or the chocolate of the Spaniard ; 
the spiced tapioca and the rum of the mulatto and of the black, 
enable them to resist fatigues which in the case of one of our 
ordinary workmen, would necessitate an important addition of 
meat. 

Over and above the economic and physiological question, 
one also understands the importance which this question of 
economy of proteid aliments would have in the alimentation 
of invalids amongst whom it is desirable to reduce to a minimum 
the nitrogenized excretions, toxins and uratic deposits. 

Besides we have already seen that the fats, sugars and starchy 
matters are certainly " sparing " aliments of the proteid com- 
pounds, since they diminish in a certain degree the urinary 
excretion of nitrogen and the expenditure of the system in 
albuminoids, provided that these ternary bodies are assimilable 
and in excess in the alimentary ration. It has also been said 
that gelatinous matters prevent the rapid dissimilation of the 

267 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

nitrogenized bodies provoked by the tuberculous virus ; thy- 
roidin, phosphorus, etc. 

M. A. Javal has shown that the addition of a feeble quantity 
of salt to our aliments very sensibly diminishes the urinary losses 
of nitrogen, and augments the nitrogenous coefficient, the 
organism maintaining itself under this influence in health and 
in weight with an alimentation containing less albuminoids. 
Here is then the role par excellence of the " sparing " aliment. 
In the order of medicines, the arsenicals (especially organic) act in 
small doses in the same direction, reducing for a given alimentation 
the losses in nitrogen as well as the pulmonary exhalations of 
carbonic acid (A. Robin, A. Gautier). Like coffee, tea and 
alcohol, these agents form effective protectors against exaggerated 
wear of the animal machinery, the functioning and yield of 
which they appear to expedite and benefit. 

Nervine Aliments. 
We shall divide the nervine aliments into : (a) aromatic aliments 
(coffee, tea, cocoa, etc.) ; (b) alcoholic liquors (wine, beer, cider . . . 
alcohol, etc.) ; and (c) condim£nts (spices, vinegar, etc.). 

Aromatic Aliments. 

Under this head wo shall study coffee, tea, cocoa, kola, mate, 
guarana. 

These aliments should all be examined together owing to there 
similar physiological effects and their composition. They all con- 
tain the alkaloids of the puric family, that is to say being allied 
to xanthin and uric acid, to wit, caffein or thein C^H^°N*0^ (or 1,3,7- 
trimethylxanthin) ; one finds it in coffee, tea, kola, guarana, 
mate, cocoa ; theophyllin C^H^N^O' (or 1, S-dimethylxanthin), 
alkaloid of tea ; theobromine {3,7-dimethylxanthin), an isomeric 
of the preceding ; it exists in cocoa together with caffein, etc. 
These bases are not however the absolutely indispensable agents 
of the activity of these substances : as Hoeckel has shown in 
the case of kola, the powder of this fruit preserves in a large 
measure its exciting action upon muscles even when one has 
completely deprived it of caffein by chloroform, and with an 
equal quantity of caffein this latter acts much less actively in 
preventing fatigue, when it is administered alone, than when 
it is given under the form of coffee, tea or kola. 

Coffee. — Coffee, which graces the meal of the rich and facilitates 
its digestion, completes and sometimes replaces that of the 
poor. Since the seventeenth century, when the Dutch transported 
coffee from its original countries Arabia, Upper Egypt and the 
South of Abyssinia, into their colonies of Java and Batavia, 
then into Europe, the use of coffee has spread over the entire 
world. European consumption has increased unceasingly ; in 
1888 it was more than 350,000,000 kgs. of coffee in berries, of 

268 



COFFEE 

which 48,000,000 were for England, 102,000,000 for Germany 
and 67,000,000 for France. In France it is six times greater than 
in 1830. 

The coffee plant {Cofea arabica) of the Rubiacese, is an ever- 
green shrub, with opposite leaves ; they bear at their axil 
berry-shaped and elongated red fruits, containing two seeds, 
convex on one side, flat on the other with a longitudinal ridge. 
These berries are separated from the endocarp, washed and dried 
in the sun. Thus treated, these seeds form the coffee berries 
or green coffee. It is of a hard consistency, almost tasteless. 
But after roasting to 230 to 250° it yields a perfumed powder of 
which infusion in warm water constitutes the aromatic drink as 
it is now consumed. 

There are many varieties of coffee (Mocha, Bourbon, Martinique, 
Iquique, Hayti, Java, Ceylon, etc.). The most esteemed is Mocha, 
which comes to us from Arabia and particularly from Yemen ; 
its berry is small, yellowish and irregular, sometimes almost 
round. After slightly heating its aroma is fragrant. The berry 
of the Bourbon coffee is larger, less round and yellowish. The 
Martinique coffee, very rich in active principles, is formed of 
voluminous berries, greenish, with a very open ridge. It is a 
good kind. 

Green coffee, that is to say unroasted, has been the subject of 
much investigation : we know that it contains from 11 to 12' 5 
per cent, of water and nearly 33 per cent, of cellulose, 12 to 14 
per cent, of fatty matters, 13 to 14 per cent, of nitrogenous 
matters, about 10 of which are a kind of legumin ; some sugars 
and dextrines ; traces of a fragrant oil ; 3 to 4 per cent, of 
mineral matters ; finally, 09 to 2 per cent, of caffein, a very 
feeble base, partly free, and partly combined with a special 
tannic acid, chlorogenic or caffeotannic acid. 

Caffein is the best known of the active principles of this seed. 
Roasting does not appreciably modify it. This substance is 
found again in the infusion of coffee. 

It acts on the brain and does away with the tiredness and 
breathlessness which follow active work or a too quick walk 
(Lapicque and Parisot, Stewart). 

Caffein increases the central temperature and diminishes the 
peripheral temperature of animals (Leblond). In moderate 
doses it stimulates the heart's action, upon which it acts as a 
tonic and causes the arterial pressure to rise by contraction of 
the little peripheral vessels. It excites the central activity. 
In stronger doses it depresses the nervous system and cerebral 
centres, increases the excitability of the muscles, facilitates 
their activity and causes a part of the sensation of fatigue to 
disappear. M. Mosso has shown that, under its influence, the 
work of the first hour may be quadrupled. 

269 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Caff ein does not appear to sensibly modify the elimination of 
the daily chlorine and urinary urea, but it induces the production 
of psychic or mechanical work, which becomes greater with the 
same alimentation. 

Caffeotannic acid' (or chlorogenic of Pay en) with which the 
caffein is partially united in the coffee is, split up under the 
action of the dilute alkalies, into caffeic acid and mannitane : 
Q15JJ1808 + H20 - CH^O^ + C^H'^O'^ 
A. Caffeo-tannic. A. Caffeic. Mannitane. 

Caffeic acid is itself a dioxycinnamic acid. 

(C«H3)(0H)*(0H)='(CH = CH - CO^H)^ 

Caffeo-tannic acid is slightly antiseptic, like the infusion of 
coffee itself. 

The oleaginous substances of the coffee are partly composed 
of olein, partly of aromatic matters with a perfumed odour, and 
partly of a kind of wax. 

During heating, towards 230 to 250°, caffeo-tannic acid partially 
splits up, becomes coloured and swollen in setting at liberty a 
part of the caffein to which it was united. The cellulose and soluble 
carbo-hydrates experience a slight caramelization ; the sugars 
disappear or become changed ; carbonic acid and carbon 
monoxide are set free ; essences develop at the expense of the 
destruction of the soluble principles, and dissolve in the oily 
bodies which impregnate the caramelized mass.^ 

Among the fragrant py rogenic principles appears caffeol C^H'" 0^ , 
an essence with the odour of coffee, boiling at 196°, capable of 
being split up by potash by giving salicylic acid. 

Green coffee loses by roasting from 1 2 to 20 per cent, of its weight.^ 

Here is its average composition compared with that of roasted 
coffee, according to J. Koenig [loc. cit. p. 1,002) : — 





Green Coffee. 


Roasted Coffee. 


Water 

Nitrogenous matters .... 

Caffein 

Fatty matters 

Gums and sugars 

Caffeo-tannic acid 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter 


1123 
12-07 

1-21 
12-27 

8-55 
33-79 
18-17 

3-92 . 


1-15 
13-98 

1-24 
14-48 

0-66 
45-09 
19-89 

475 



1 This acid gives a marked green colour to the salts of iron. 

2 Exposed to light and air, heated coffee loses a part of these essences. 
To prevent this, a little powdered sugar (20 grms. per kg.) is some- 
times thrown on the coffee beans towards the end of torrefaction. It then 
becomes enveloped in caramel and preserves its perfume better. 

3 Green coffee previously exhausted of water no longer gives any aro- 
matic or bitter principles when it is roasted. 

270 



COFFEE 

The mineral matters of coffee have, according to Palm, the 
following percentage composition : — 

K^O = 62-47 ; MgO = 969 ; CaO = 628 ; Si = 054 ; 
CO^ -15-27 ; P^O^ = 13-29 ; Fe^O^* = 065 ; O = 0-61. 

One hundred grms. of roasted coffee yield to boiling water 
about a quarter of their weight of soluble matters. Here is the 
average composition of tliis liquid so widespread to-day. I have 
calculated it here for 100 grms. of coffee and also for 15 
grms. only, the quantity usually employed to obtain a cup 
of good coffee of 80 to 100 cc. 





For an infusion 

of 100 grms. 

of Boasted Coffee. 


For an infusion of 
15 grms. of Coffee (or 
1 Cup of strong Coffee), 


Nitrogenous matters .... 

(Of which : caffein) 

Oils 

Non-nitrogenous organic matters . 
Ash 


3- 12 
1-74 
5-18 
1314 
405 


0-47 
0-26 
0-78 
1-97 
0-61 


Total 


25-50 


3-82 



In 100 parts of ashes of a decoction of coffee, Lehmann has 
found 51-5 of K^O ; 36 of CaO ; 867 of MgO ; 025 of Fe^O^^ ; 
10 of P^O^ ; 4-01 of SO^* ; 205 of CO^ ; 198 of KCl. No soda 
or manganese. 

We have said before what we think of the action of coffee and 
what is known of the effects of its most important principle, 
caffein. It is not only shown that coffee acts like a real aliment 
of economy, but it seems to allow, for a like alimentation, the 
production of more work or the same work with less fatigue. 
It quickens, without doubt, the circulation of the blood and thus 
ridding the muscles of their waste products, it increases their 
energy, while at the same time it diminishes muscular and 
cerebral fatigue.^ 

Coffee helps many people to digest milk. The stimulating 
power ranks to a certain extent with that of alcohol, and we may 
say that in this excellent preparation we possess one of the most 
efficacious means of contending with alcoholism. 

Coffee passes as a digestive, slightly diuretic and a little anti- 
aphrodisiac. This was at least the firm opinion of Trousseau and 

1 See the researches of M. de Gasparin, Comp^es Bendus, Acad. Science, 
t. XXX, pp. 397, 729 and t. XXXI, p. 25. According to Borker patients 
subjected alternately to a diet of coffee voided in twenty-four hours : 
In the absence of coffee, 1,364 cc. of urine, containing 22-2 grms. of urea, 
0-578 grms. of uric acid and 1-29 of P^O^. With the use of coffee, they give, 
on an average, 1,733 cc. of urine, with 12-58 grms. of urea, 0402 of uric acid 
and 0-85 grm. of phosphoric acid. Rabuteau, Schultze and others have also 
pointed out the diminution of urea under the influence of coffee. But G. 
See and Lapicque thought that there was an increase in the elimination of 
total nitrogen, and Hoppe Seyler and E. Smith an increase of CO 2 exhaled. 

271 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

that which J. Boussingault expresses in his Memoirs (vol. IV). 
Its role as a proper aliment, is, so to speak, nil. 

Coffee, as every one knows, produces a nervous excitement, 
which, if abused, may lead to insomnia, hallucinations, troubles 
of the circulation and muscular innervation, to precordial dis- 
tress and to dyspnoea. One may become caffeic just as one can 
become alcoholic or a morphia maniac. Some people, never- 
theless, do not readily suffer from the abuse of it. But it ought 
to be especially forbidden to arthritics, to uratics, amongst whom 
it often causes gravel, to gastralgics, to dyspeptics and to those 
suffering from Bright's disease. 

It is the best antidote to opium and to morphia and to the 
deadly nightshade. It effectually combats the results of drunken- 
ness and accidents leading to coma. 

Tea. — Tea, the infusion of which is to-day drunk more or less 
everywhere, is constituted by the rolled, dried and slightly ter- 
rified leaf of the Thea sinensis, a shrub of the family of the Cam- 
eliaceae cultivated in China and Japan from time immemorial. 

It appears that the different kinds of tea may be produced by 
the same vegetable or by varieties very much resembling each 
other. The various kinds depend especially on the moment when 
the leaf is gathered and on the treatment to which it is afterwards 
subjected. Tea gathered in the spring is the most highly 
esteemed. Green tea is made from the first leaves of the year ; 
it is dried and slightly heated soon after it is gathered. Black tea 
is submitted to a slight fermentation in a heap before being dried. 
Then it is heated over again several times upon metal plates. 

Whether black or green, teas are subdivided each into numerous 
varieties : among the black teas Soiichong and Pekoe are very 
much esteemed. Among the green teas Hyson, Tonkay and 
gunpowder tea may be quoted. 

The consumption of tea in France exceeds annually 450,000 
kgs. ; it was in 1888 in England more than 100,000,000 kgs., 
and in Russia more than 9,000,000. 

Here are two analyses of teas in ordinary use : — 





Ch. Girard. 


J. Koenig (average 
of all kinds). 


Water 

NitrogenotLS matter 

Thein 

Essential oil 

Resines, chlorophyll, fats 
Gum and dextrin . . . . 

Tannins 

Pectins 

Cellulose 

Ash 


11-49 

21-22 

1-35 

0-67 

3-62 

7-13 

12-36 

16-75 

20-30 

5-11 


951 

24-50 

3-58 

0-68 

6-39 

645 

15-65 

16-02 

11-58 

5-65 




10000 


100-00 



272 



TEA 

Green teas are generally more perfumed, more charged with 
chlorophyll, more tannic, poorer in cellulose, richer in thein than 
the black. This base often rises in black or green teas to 2 per 
cent, and can reach in the latter even to 5 per cent, of dried 
leaf. 

In the natural state, as commerce supplies it, tea gives up in 
hot water from 31 to 44 per cent, of its weight of soluble matters. 
The infusion is made by pouring about 250 cc. of very hot water 
uponSgrms. of tea (for five cups) placed beforehand in a metal or 
porcelain teapot, throwing away immediately this water which 
has served only to warm the apparatus, and replacing it by 
600 cc. of fresh boiling water. After five or six minutes the 
infusion (made in a closed pot) is ready to serve. 

A cup of tea of 120 cc. does not contain beyond 04 grms. of 
soluble substances and 0*025 of thein ; rarely more, even for 
green teas. 

Other active bodies are found in the infusion of tea, known 
or unknown : a volatile essence of a sweet odour, but which 
disperses little by little with the steam ; xanthin tliat Baginsky 
discovered in this infusion, about 1884 ; hypoxanthin and 
adenin which Kossel discovered there at the same time as the 
theophylline W^WO- (or 1,3-dimethylxanthin), a diuretic base, act- 
ing slightly on the heart^ ; up to 30 per cent, of a particular tannin 
(colouring the iron salts green), an acid with which the thein is 
partly combined ; gums ; extractive nitrogenous matters little 
known ; resins ; finally from 5 to 7 per cent, of mineral matters 
formed particularly of the phosphate of potash, with lime, 
magnesia and manganese. 

Tea, properly speaking, is no more an aliment than coffee ; 
it is, like the latter, an exciting agent of the digestive functions and 
the kidneys, atonic of the heart and the muscles by its alkaloids. 
An infusion of tea conduces to mental and muscular work, 
accelerates the circulation of the blood, renders active the 
functions of the skin and the excretion of the urine, and reacts 
usefully upon the greater part of the other functions. 

A slight infusion of tea forms an excellent drink, especially in 
countries where, as in the centre of Asia, Morocco, etc., the 
filtration of drinking water is difficult or impossible. 

Cocoa and Chocolate. — The cacao nib with which the powdered 
cocoa and chocolate are made, is obtained from the fruit of the 
cacoyer {Theobroma cacao), of the Malvaceae, a tree of South 

1 It dissolves cold in 179 grms. of water and at 37° in 85 parts. A 
gramme dissolves in its weight of cinnamate of soda and seven parts of 
water. Its excitant and convulsive action on the nervous system is simi- 
lar to that of cafifein. Its diuretic action is considerable ; it is given in 
doses of 20 to 50 centigr. Unfortunately theophyllin sometimes fatigues 
Vhe stomach and causes sickness. 

273 T 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



45 


to 


8 


40 




51 


2 




3 


1 




3 


3 




4 


11 




15 


3 




4 



America. These beans, separated from their pulp and dried, 
are afterwards handed over for commercial purposes. 

Many varieties are distinguishable : that of Caracas is the most 
valued. The contents of these beans are greyish on the 
exterior. It has been terre, that is to say put into the ground, 
where it undergoes the commencement of germination or diastasic 
fermentation, which renders it more assimilable and causes a 
certain sharpness to disappear. The cocoas of Maragnan, Para 
and Martinique, with smaller redder grains, have not been so 
treated. 

For the preparation of chocolate, the grains of the cacao are 
first slightly heated, separated from the shells and seeds, ground 
and finally worked up with sugar and some aromatics. 

Deprived of its waste parts, the bean of the cacao plant presents 
the following composition : 

Water .... 

Fatty matters . 

Red colouring principles, tannin 

Theobromine 

Starchy matters 

Albuminous matters . 

Ash .... 

In cocoa a trace of asparagin is found and a little bitartrate 
of potash and a great deal of oxalate of lime. According to 
Esbach, it contains 4-50 grms. per kg. of the latter. 

The ashes have this percentage composition : P^O^ = 39' 6 ; 
K^O = 3714 ; MgO = 15-97 ; CaO = 288 ; SO^ = 3965 ; 
CI = 16-6. 

The shells or grabeaux and other waste products detached 
from the grain amount to from 5 to 15 per cent, in the raw bean. 
According to M. Duclaux a good deal of copper is found there. 

Cocoa is not only an ahment ; it is also an exciting and 
gustatory nervine by reason of its essences which roasting de- 
velops, and of its alkaloid, the theobromine C^H^N^O^, homologous 
with caffein of which the physiological properties are very analogous 
to those of this latter. By its amylaceous, albuminous and fatty 
matters, cocoa, and still more chocolate (or cocoa with sugar added 
to it), constitute a complete food rich in nitrogenous and ternary 
matters. The albuminous matters form the seventh part of the 
weight of the bean ; fatty substances nearly half. The butter 
of cocoa is a mixture of stearin and olein fusible from 27° to 31°; 
it brittles when cold. Generally it is partially removed in the pre- 
parations of powdered cocoa, in order to be able to pulverize 
the bean finely, and to render the matter more easily diluent in 
hot water. 

The torrefaction of the cocoa bean takes place at 230 to 260°. 
It modifies very little the centesimal composition of the substance. 

274 



COCOA 



I have stated that there is no sensible loss of nitrogen. But the 
natural sweetened matters undergo a slight caramelization, and 
the perfume which it develops adds its exciting effect to that of 
the alkaloid. 

We notice in the above analysis, the small quantity of starch 
or of dextrin in this grain ; infusion of cocoa takes, by the action 
of iodine, only a feeble reddish violet colouring. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding very finely 4 to 5 parts of 
sugar with 6 parts of cocoa, and generally adding a little vanilla 
or cinnamon. The chocolate of inferior quality may contain 
as much as 65 per cent, of sugar. 

It is a very agreeable food but difficult to digest, chiefly owing 
to the abundance of its fats. On the other hand, its great rich- 
ness in oxalate contra indicates it for all those who are exposed 
to uric or xalic diastases, arthritics, those suffering from rheuma- 
tism or gravel, or an excess of HCl in the gastric secretions, and 
generally people who are no longer very young and who do not 
take sufficient physical exercise. 

Here is, according to the Documents du labor atoire municipal of 
Paris, the analysis of some good French and Spanish chocolates : — 





Choc. Menier. 


Colonial Co. 


Spanish Choc. 


Cane sugar 

Cocoa butter 

Starch, glucose .... 

Theobromine 

Albumin 

Gums 

Tartaric acid 

Tannin and colouring matter 
Soluble cellulose .... 
Undetermined matters 

Water 

Ash 


57-47 
22-20 
1-83 
1-33 
4-75 
1 07 
1-48 
0-20 
4-70 
192 
1-28 
1-75 


56-34 
23-80 
0-97 
1-43 
4-99 
114 
1-58 
0-20 
5-04 
1-66 
0-98 
1.87 


41-40 
29-24 
1-48 
1-93 
6-25 
1-42 
1-98 
0-12 
6-21 
3-25 
4-38 
2-34 



An ordinary cup of about 70 cc. is prepared with 16 grms. of 
chocolate. 

100 grms. of powdered cocoa, freed from fat up to 25 per cent., 
contain : 1*3 grms. of theobromine, 17 grms. of total nitrogenized 
substance of which 8 per cent, consist of albumin, 10 to 12 grms. 
of carbo-hydrates. Ten grms. of this cocoa, sufficient for a 
small cup, will correspond then to a tenth of the above quantities. 

The comforting effect that a cup of cocoa or chocolate con- 
taining only 14 grms. of alible matter, of which there are 7 
grms. of sugar and 25 grms. of fat, instantly procures, in extreme 
fatigue, as I have assured myself, can only be explained by a 
nervous effect which the odour of cocoa provokes, which the 

275 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

tonic influence of the theobromine continues and which the 
nutritive part of the aliment completes in proportion as it is 
absorbed. 

Kola, Guarana, Mate, Coca. — These various products should 
be added to the preceding on account of their stimulating and 
tonic effects which they owe in part to the caffein and to other 
puric bases. 

Kola, which among the negroes of Central Africa, fills the part 
of resisting agent to fatigue, is the seed of the fruit of the 
Sterculia acuminata. Its seeds of yellowish, pink or reddish 
colour, have the consistency and slightly the form of a very 
large almond. Some may weigh up to 15 and 20 grms. Analysed 
in a semi-fresh state, they have given to MM. Heckel and Schlag- 
denhauffen the following results ^ : — 



Water 






1192 


Caffein ...... 






2-35 


Theobromine ..... 






002 


Fatty bodies ..... 






059 


Tannin (0027 soluble in chloroform) 






1 62 


Red of kola ..... 






129 


Glucose ...... 






2-87 


Starch 






3375 


Gum ...... 






3 04 


Colouring matters .... 






256 


Proteid matters .... 






6-76 


Cellulose ...... 






2983 


Ash 






332 



This fruit is therefore very rich in caffein. Besides some amyla- 
ceous matters which form more than a third of its weight, it con- 
tains also some active substances, in particular that denominated 
in the above analysis red of kola. When all the alkaloids have 
been extracted from the fruit by means of chloroform, kola 
still enables one to resist hunger and fatigue by virtue of some 
little known substances. 

M. A. Mosso- and M. Marie have demonstrated that kola 
increases the number and energy of the muscular contractions, 
prevents fatigue and overwork, renders respiration more free 
and more powerful. It is a heart tonic, also an efficacious agent 
in neurasthenia. Kola possesses, finally, exciting and aphrodisiac 
properties. It is employed in cases of intestinal atony, in affec- 
tions of the liver, etc. 

Guarana is a preparation which is made with the flour of the 
torrefied seeds of the Paullinia sorbilis (Hypocastanceae). 
Elongated cylindrical loaves which are exposed to smoke are 
made from it with a little water. Travellers in Brazil use this 



1 Comptes Rendus. t. XCIV, p. 802. 

2 Arch. ital. de biolog. vol. XIX, fasc. 2. 

276 



MATE, COCOA 

preparation of guarana mixed in boiling water (punch), sugared 
or not, to resist hunger and fatigue when on the march. 

It is said to be also endowed with antifebrile properties. M. 
Fournier has found in it some tannate of caffein, a principle 
particularly soluble in ether, turning it red in the light, some 
gums, tannin, starch, an aromatic volatile oil, a green oil of sour 
flavour, etc. 

Caffein in guarana amounts to about 4 per cent. 

Mate or Tea of Paraguay is especially made from the leaf of a 
shrub, the Ilex paraguayensis, which is found in Paraguay, 
Brazil and in the Argentine Republic. Dried and slightly 
roasted, these leaves produce a coarse brownish green powder, 
smelling of tan, and which is used as a kind of tea. Three or four 
lots of boiling water may be poured on the same leaves. The 
tonic and stimulating properties of the mate are partly due to 
the thein, of which it contains 0'5 to TSper cent., and partly to 
the matetannic acid (20"88 per cent, according to Strauch). Here 
is the composition of mate according to Peckolt : — 



Cellulose, moisture 










90-84 


Caffein 










0-55 


Matetannic acid 










1-68 


Pyromatetannic acid 










015 


Chlorophyll and resin 










061 


Extractives and caramel 










1 79 


Dextrin, salts 










1-82 


Brown acid resin 










255 


Volatile oil 










Traces 



The infusion of mate is a little bitter, aromatic and astringent. 
It regulates the evacuations. It is a neuro-muscular excitant. 

Coca, made from the leaves of the Erythroxylon coca (Rham- 
naceae), i? taken as an infusion ; the natives chew these leaves 
with a small quantity of ash or lime. It produces first a slight 
excitation, then it causes the sensation of hunger to disappear, 
but it does not nourish and does not allow of going long without 
food. Coca especially owes its effects, but not entirely, to its 
alkaloid cocaine. Chewed in a small quantity, the coca leaves 
sustain the forces for some time and allow fatigue to be borne 
without recourse to aliments. 

Its properties, at once anaesthetic and excitant, contain a 
number of products, cocaine and other bases, variable according 
to the species. The coca of Peru gives up to 1 per cent, of 
cocaine, that of Jamaica only 0'26 per cent. 



277 



XXV 

FERMENTED BEVERAGES — ALCOHOL — WINE 

ALCOHOLIC beverages have been made and consumed from 
the most remote ages by all people, civilized or savage. 
The Egyptians, Greeks, Germans and Gauls already knew how 
to produce fermentation of the grain of cereals, and made thus 
some kinds of beers or ales. In China, manduring and fan-tsou ; 
in India arak ; in Thibet chxytig and in Nubia houja have been 
made for centuries by causing infusions of rice or other boiled 
cereals, mixed or not with honey and spices, to ferment. 

Palm wine,, 'pulque, of Mexico, cachaca of Brazil, guarvzo of 
South America, mohi of Virginia, etc., are prepared with the 
sweet sap of the palm, American aloe, sugar cane, and decoctions 
of rice or potatoes. In Norway the sap of the birch is fermented ; 
in the Alps an infusion of gentian roots ; in the North of Europe 
they have made for a long time and still make hydromel from the 
honey of bees. 

Lastly, we know the kephir of the Arabs and the koumiss of 
the Cossacks obtained from the fermented mUk of the camel or 
mare. There is nothing, even to the kangangtsyjen, made by 
the Tartars with lamb's flesh, mixed with cooked rice and other 
vegetables, and fermented, which is not used as an alcoholic 
drink. This universal custom of making and drinking fermented 
liquids of every kind does not perhaps demonstrate their absolute 
necessity, but it seems to satisfy a universal, instinctive and 
powerful need. 

The characteristic and common principle of all these fer- 
mented drinks is alcohol. 

Before studying wine, cider, beer, etc., a question, the solution 
of which is indispensable, first presents itself, viz., whether this 
alcohol is a simple nervous exciter, whether it is only a more or 
less dangerous poison, or if it is at once an excitant, a tonic and 
an aliment in the true acceptation of the word. 

Opinions have long been divided on this subject. They are 
still so to-day ; but it follows definitely from the most irre- 
proachable modern observations and experiences that the alcohol 
absorbed by animals is almost entirely consumed in the system. 
Like fat or sugar, it should be considered as an aliment procuring 
us, as we shall show, the greater part of the energy corresponding to 
the number of calories which it would produce if it were com- 
pletely burnt in a calorimeter. Whether the individual works, 

278 



ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

or whether he be at rest, we think that we can here show, 
thanks to the most recent researches, tliat m the manner of fats 
and sugars alcohol protects the tissues, and in particular their 
protoplasmic matters, against the destruction which all vital 
functioning provokes, but on the condition nevertheless that it 
he given without abuse, the latter producing contrary ejects. 

Alcohol, in a word, behaves as a true aliment and even as a. 
valuable aliment, as long as it does not exceed 1 grm. per kilo- 
gramme weight of the body in the daily allowance, a dose known 
to be on this side of the dangerous zone, as we shall see. 

Liebig had suggested, without other proofs than those of 
common sense, that alcohol is an aliment analogous to sugar and 
that it is consumed in the system. " The ingestion of alcohol," 
he writes, " dispenses with the use of starch or sweetened aliments. 
... It is an exception to the rule that a well nourished indi- 
vidual becomes a drinker of brandy ; but when the workman 
gains less by his work than is needful to him to procure the neces- 
sary quantity of aliments, an imperious, inexorable need forces 
him to have recourse to brandy."^ 

This opinion of Liebig's was generally accepted when, in 1860, 
Ludger, then Lallemand and Duroy, and lastly and especially 
Maurice Perrin tried to show, by a series of important researches, 
that alcohol does not burn in our organs, that it only passes through 
the system, fixing itself momentarily in the nerve centres which it 
excites or intoxicates, to be slowly eliminated afterwards by 
the skin, lungs, and kidneys, either naturally or at the most, only 
oxidized in a very small proportion in the state of aldehyde. 

Perrin in fact showed that a part of the alcohol is found again 
in the sweat, urine, expired air, etc., even when it is taken in the 
form of wine and in a small quantity at a time. {Comp. Rend. 
Acad. Sciences, August 1, 1864). He thought that we could 
conclude from this that almost all the alcohol is thus eliminated. 
On the other hand, Prout, Lehmann, Vierordt, E. Smith, etc., 
have remarked, under the influence of alcohol, a diminution 
of the expired carbonic acid. This diminution, which varied 
from 5 to 22 per cent, in the experiments of Maurice Perrin, 
strengthened the supposition that the alcohol is not consumed 
in the system. A little later it was recognized that in the case 
of alcoholics, moderate doses of alcohol (1 grm. at the most per kilo- 
gramme of weight of the subject) do not modify the quantity of 
carbonic acid expired and oxygen absorbed ; but they only slightly 
diminish (from 6 to 7 per cent.) the excretion of urea (Fokker^, 
Munk^, Obernier^) an excretion which, on the contrary, 

1 New Letters on Chemistry (35th letter), French translation. 

2 C Voit, Handbuch, p. 170. 

^ Arch, de Du Boia- Raymond, 1870, p. 163. 
4 Pfliiger'a Arch., t. II, p. 503. 

279 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

increases if the alcoholic dose is doubled or trebled, producing a 
sUght excitation of the nerve centres (Munk, Keller, etc.). Some 
analogous results were observed concerning the influence of this 
body on the consumption of fats which it protects against oxidation. 
In a word, in small doses, alcohol behaves asa " sparing " aliment ; 
in strong doses, as a noxious substance and destroyer of protoplasm. 
But these experiences do not enable us to come to a definite con- 
clusion on the direct part played by this principle as a source of heat 
and energy in animals, and opinion remains divided : many medical 
men — Lussana, Lauder-Brunton, Dujardin-Beaumetz,A.Bouchar- 
dat, etc., think that alcohol is partially transformed and consumed 
in the system which profits by the corresponding energy ; on the 
other hand, Hoppe-Seyler, Hermann, Wolf berg, etc., remain con- 
vinced that the alcohol passes through the system without being 
sensibly decomposed in it. 

Renewing the study of this question by quantitative methods, 
Binz appears to have been the first to establish by some precise 
experiments (1880), that alcohol is almost completely consumed 
in our tissues. Botlander, Albertoni.Strassmann and Hedon came 
to the same conclusion. In 1891, Staumreich established that the 
isodynamic substitution of alcohol for a certain quantity of fat 
or sugar, in the diet of an individual in nitrogenous equilibrium, 
causes an increase in the dissimilation of the nitrogen (1 grm. 
to 15 grms. loss per 24 hours) ; this excess of lost nitrogen con- 
tinues two or three days after the use of alcohol has been stopped.^ 
R. 0. Neumann, in 1899, arrived at some analogous conclu- 
sions, as well as Rosemann, to whose works we shall return later. 
At Montpellier, M. L. Roos, the learned director of the onoe- 
logic station of Herault, in 1900, made the following experi- 
ment : two lots of guinea-pigs, of the same litter and initial 
weight, received the same nourishment, but one of the lots was 
given a daily supplement of 30 cc. of red wine, 9° per cent, per 
kg. weight of the animal. At the end of three weeks, the 
guinea-pigs receiving the wine made an advance in weight of 5-6 
per cent, on the others ; at the end of five months they weighed 
12-9 per cent more. 

In 1901, M. Chauveau^ was led to study the effects which 
result from replacing in the alimentary ration a part of the ternary 
aliments by alcohol in isodynamic quantity. A dog weighing 
20 kgs. received, per 24 hours, 500 grms. of meat and 762 grms. 
of sugar, and produced a certain amount of work measured 
by the distance that he traversed in a treadwheel which he caused 
to turn round. At the same time the gain or loss in weight of 
the animal was ascertained. These facts being established, a 
third of the sugar of his allowance was replaced by an isodynamic 

1 Arch. f. Hygiene, t. XXXVI, p. 1, 1889 ; Inavgur. Dissert., Berlin, 1891. 
- Comptes Bend. Acad, sciences, t. CXXXIT, pp. 65, 110. 

280 



IS ALCOHOL AN ALIMENT? 

weight of alcohol, say 49 grms. per 24 liours^ the work that the 
animal produced and also its weight, were measured. Under 
these conditions, alcohol in isodynamic weight always proves 
itself to be inferior to sugar. The dog without alcohol traversed 
10 kilometres in his wheel per hour, the dog with alcohol 7 kilo- 
metres only. M. Chauveau concludes {loc. cit., p. 114) : — 
" The partial substitution of alcohol for sugar in isodynamic 
proportion in the alimentary ration of a subject who works, 
entails : 1st, the diminution of the absolute value of muscular 
work ; 2nd, stagnation or diminution of the maintenance (in 
weight) of the animal." But, a propos of these last experiments, 

1 wiU remark that he experimented on dogs unaccustomed to a 
nourishment as different to their natural nourishment as alcohol 
was, and of which they received the considerable dose of 49 
grms. per 24 hours for 20 kgs. of animal. This weight would 
correspond proportionally for an average man of 66 kgs. to 

2 litres of wine at 9-5 or to 152 grms. of absolute alcohol, or 
to 380 cc. of ordinary cognac at 50 per cent. One could not but 
doubt that this quantity of spirituous liquor absorbed by a 
workman, accustomed or not to alcoholic liquors, would interfere 
with his nutrition and diminish his yield in work. 

In 1902, fresh experiments entirely convincing were carried out 
at Washington on this important and delicate question by Messrs. 
Atwater and Benedict.^ They first established for each of them 
a diet suitable for keeping their weight and the heat they threw 
off, constant. This was carried out by enclosing the experimenter 
himself for several consecutive days in the respiratory calori- 
meter already described (p. 63). Each of the subjects experi- 
mented upon, first put into equilibrium of weight as regards nitro- 
genous loss and heat emission, was introduced into the calorimeter, 
and the total amount of energy which he produced and the other 
constants of his state, were measured in the form of heat. After- 
wards a certain quantity of alcohol (the value of a litre of wine 
per 24 hours) was substituted in his diet for a period of three or 
four days, for a calorimetrically equivalent quantity of sugar or 
starchy material, and the calories produced were measured again. 
As a check, the subject returned for the following three or four 
days to the original diet without alcohol, and the same readings were 
again taken. It was thus experimentally established to almost a 
thousandth part, that the quantities of heat produced were identical 
either when alcohol was isodynamically substituted in the diet, 

1 M. Chauveau has even given as much as 84 grms. of pure alcohol to a 
dog weighing 20 kg. 

2 Experiments on the Metabolism of Matter and Energy in the Human Body, 
Bulletin, No. 69, U.S. Depart, of Agriculture ; office of experiment, 
Washington Station, 1899, and Mem. de VAcad. nationale des sciences, 
t. VIII, Washington, 1902. (See a resum6 of those researches in the 
Annates Institut Pasteur, 1902, p. 857.) 

281 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



or when the subject did not take any alcohol hut received in its place 
a proportional quantity of sugar or starch. 

The two experimenters examined afterwards the influence of 
alcohol on work. They effected this by means of a motor cycle, 
united to an ergometer, enclosed in the calorimetric chamber. We 
have said (p. 66) that a dynamo transformed the work produced 
into electricity, and that this was changed into equivalent heat in 
traversing an Edison lamp. Finally, all the work, that of friction 
included, was then transformed, in the chamber itself, into heat 
that was measured either during the ordinary alimentary diet, 
without alcohol, or during the'period of isodynamous substitution 
of alcohol for a part of the aliments. The heat collected in the 
calorimeter, during work, still remained the same either when 
the alcohol was substituted or when it was not. Here are some 
numerical results : — 

Experiments of Atwater and Benedict on the Isodynamic 
Substitution of Alcohol in Diet. 




\st. In a State 

of Rest. 
I. 3 days 

(Subject A.) 

3 days . 
(Subject A.) 



TI. 3 days 
(Subject B.) 



2nd. In a State 
of Work. 

III. 4 days . 
(Subject A.) 



IV. 3 days . 
(Subject B.) 



Albuminoids 

Ternary bodies (fats, sugar, starch) 

(no alcohol) 
Albuminoids same as in a 
Ternary bodies as in a, but with 
partial isodynamic substitution 

of alcohol 

Albuminoids 

Ternary bodies 

Albuminoids as in c 
Ternary bodies as in c, but with 
. isodynamic substitution of : 

alcohol 

The same alimentation as in c . 



/. Ordinary diet without alcohol 

with : albuminoids 
g. Same diet as in / with isodynamic 

substitution of : alcohol 
h. Ordinary diet without alcohol 

with : albuminoids 
i. The preceding ordinary diet, but 

with isodynamic substitution for 

the ternary bodies of : alcohol 
k. Retvu-n to diet h 



124 grms. 
sufficient 

quan.^ 
124 grms. 



124 grms. 
100 grms. 
sufficient 

quan. 
100 grms. 



99 grms. 

124 grms. 
121 grms. 

100 grms. 

99 grms. 



3061 

3044 
2490 



2491 
2489 



3862 
3891 
3487 



3458 
3495 



1 A sufficient qxtantity, that is to say a quantity sufficient to enable this 
diet to give the number of calories indicated (here : 3,061 ). In the period 
" b " a part of the sugars or starch of the period " a " is replaced by alco- 

282 



ALCOHOL AS AN ALIMENT 



In these experiments the work consisted of six to eight hours 
per day on the motor cycle. 

It can be seen from the figures in this table, that the work 
accompUshed for a given weight of alcohol replacing an isodyna- 
mic quantity of sugar or fat, was identical in the two cases (with 
or without alcohol) since the quantity of heat proportional to this 
work transformed into caloric by means of the dynamo remained 
exactly the same. This result is especially interesting as one of 
the experimenters was not accustomed to drink alcoholic liquors. 

On the other hand, from the point of view of the general nutri- 
tion and in particular of the losses or gains of the body in nitrogen, 
the results of these important researches were as follows : — 

Nitrogen lost or 
gained in 24 
hours by the 
subject under 
experiment. 
-0 70 grms. 

000 „ 
-0-60 „ 
+ 11 



Period of repose without alcohol 



Period of work 

Period of repose with alcohol 



1-9 
11 



There is then, under the influence of the substitution in isody- 
namic quantities of alcohol for fats and sugars, a slight increase 
in the nitrogenous excretion. The machine is very slightly more 
used up with alcohol than with sugar. 

This same conclusion is arrived at from the important work 
of R. Rosemann.^ The subject was first put into a state of 
nitrogenous equilibrium by means of a previous carefully 
studied alimentation, then a certain quantity of alcohol was 
isodynamically substituted for an equivalent proportion of 
sugar or fat. Here are the results obtained in the two cases 
of normal and insufficient nourishment : — 

First Series of Experiments : Alimentation in Nitrogenous 
Equilibrium. 



1st. Preparatory period 

2nd. Period of alcohol (60 grms. of bread and 
75 grms. of sugar replaced by alcohol) 

3rd. Period of return (return to the alimenta- 
tion of the first period )~ 

4th. Period of control (suppression of the 
same aliments as in 2nd period, but with- 
out replacing them by alcohol) 



Duration. 



9 days 
14 days 

6 days 

7 days 



Alcohol 
expressed 
in Wine 
per day. 

0-0 
1400 cc. 

0-0 

0-0 



Daily lo.ss 
or gain in 
Nitrogen. 

+ M370 
+ 0-7960 

+ 1-0487 

-1-4613 



hoi in isodynamic quantity, which would be in this case 124 grms., during 
the throe days of this period " b." 

1 Arch. f. gas. Phyniolog., Bd. LXXXVI, p. 307(1910), Der Einfluas der 
Alkohols auf den Eiiveissstoffwechscl. 

283 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Thus, according to these experiments, alcohol is opposed to 
the dissimilation of the albuminoids (0-7960 grms. fixed per 
day, instead of 1-4613 grms. lost when alcohol was not added) ; 
but it is less efficacious than an isodynamic quantity of carbo- 
hydrates (0-7960 grms. of nitrogen fixed per day, when pure alcohol 
was substituted, instead of 1-1370 with the ordinary aliments). 



Second Series of Experiments : NouRi 

NiTBOGEN. 


SHMENT 


[nsuffictent in 




Duration. 


Alcohol 
expressed 
in Wine 
per day. 


Lessor 
gain in 
Nitrogen 
per day.i 


1st. Preparatory period 

2nd. Period of alcohol (20 grms. of sugar and 
100 grms. of bread isodynamically re- 
placed by alcohol) 

3rd. Period of return to sugar (wine replaced 
by 220 grms. of sugar) 

4th. Period of control (alimentation of the 
2nd period less wine) 


9 days 
10 days 

5 days 
4 days 


000 
1400 cc. 

0-00 
0-00 


-0-8883 
-1-3389 

-0-3724 
-2-3728 



Alcohol has then a preserving action on the albuminoids, as 
the nourishment in nitrogen is or is not insufficient ; but, in the 
two cases, this action is a little less powerful than that of an isody- 
namic quantity of sugar, fats or starchy substances.^ 

On the other hand, it has been shown (Experiments of At water 
and Benedict) that alcohol is suited to replace isodynamic weights 
of starch or sugar, but on this condition, that it does not exceed 
a certain limit, which is about 1-2 to 1-3 per kg. of the weight of the 
body and per day. 

We see then how little foundation there was for the opinion 
of Maurice Perrin, Lallemand and Duroy, Hoppe-Seyler, Briicke, 
WoKberg, Chauveau, Bunge, Ch. Richet, etc., that alcohol cannot 
be considered as a true aliment, and that it cannot furnish its 
equivalent of functional energy.^ 

1 They analysed all the ahments and considered as gained or lost the 
difference between the alimentary nitrogen and the total nitrogen of the 
excretions. 

2 These results are analogous to those obtained by Mogiliansky. {Der 
. Einflusa der Alkohols auf die Assimilation und den Stoffwechsel der Sttck- 

stoffes an die Assimilation der Fette, Inaug. Wissench. St. Petersburg, 1889.) 
In these trials made on some subjects receiving a superabundant ahmen- 
tation and whenever they wished it, alcohol increased the assimilation, 
or rather kept down the dissimilation. They do not agree with those of 
Miura {Zeitsch. f. klin. Med., vol. XX, 1892), who experimented exaitly 
as Rosemann did, and who found that in replacing isodynamically in 
alimentation 110 grms. of carbo-hydrates by alcohol, or in suppressing 
this alcohol, the loss of the organism in nitrogen remained the same. 

^ Bunge expresses himself thus : " It has been recognized that alcohol 
is consumed (by animals) . . . Alcohol is then without doubt a source 

284 



ALCOHOL AS AN ALIMENT 

The only conclusion which results from the experiments of 
these authors is that in the case of man, in doses greater than 1-5 
grms. per day and per kg., alcohol should be considered as 
dangerous. But in moderate doses, and in these doses only, it 
forms an aliment suitable to quickly procure heat and vigour, 
to warm up the blood, as is the common expression, to protect the 
nitrogenous part of our tissues, and finally to place the subject 
in a state to be capable of suddenly furnishing an effort superior 
to that which alimentation without alcohol enabled him to make. 
The employment of this body does not answer then to an arti- 
ficial need, it is an aliment of immediate action, a momentary 
resource, although dangerous in its handling, for the insuffi- 
ciently nourished individual. Alcohol is at the same time a 
combustible and powerful nervous stimulant. Absorbed, even in 
small doses, it passes into the plasmas and is fixed in the nerve 
centres, from which it is afterwards only slowly eliminated (Nic- 
loux). Useful, sometimes valuable, as long as it is used in moder- 
ation, this excitation becomes disastrous if there is a repeated 
abuse of alcohol. But the deplorable consequences of this 
abuse, to which we shall return later (p. 308), ought not to make 
us reject this valuable addition to alimentation, any more than 
the abuse of morphia should make us abandon the use of this 
admirable drug. 

The universal employment of fermented beverages is therefore 
logical and well founded. It shows that the good sense of ordinary 
people may sometimes be rightly opposed to the too exclusive 
theories of a science which formed, and, in this particular case, 

of living force for our bodies ; but this does not mean that it is a food. 
In order to justify this conception it would be necessary to prove that this 
living force set free by its combustion, is employed in the accomplishment 
of a normal function. The combustion of alcohol ought to spare that of 
other aliments. But we cannot concede that either." {Ann. de chim. 
biolog., p. 124, 2nd German edition.) 

M. Chauveau {Diacoura a la Soc. nationale d' Agriculture, December 11, 
1901, p. 10) writes : "I am not then an enemy to wine . . . But is it a 
food ? Is it a simple drink ? A food ! To deserve this name it would 
be necessary that the potential energy that wine includes, under the form 
of alcohol and organic acids, should be incorporated in our system. But 
it is nothing of the kind. . . . These (the alcoholics) are in a manner 
the succedanea of true aliments. It is doubtful if they are ever employed 
by the organism for the execution of its physiological activities. Even 
if they did so, they would remain always vis-a-vis to the true potential 
furnished by the carbo-hydrates, in a state of pitiable inferiority." 

I recall here that traces of alcohol have been pointed out in the milk and 
urine, and that Professors Stoklaza and Czerny (of "Vienna) have stated 
that they "have found in our tissues an alcoolase which changes the 
sugar into alcohol, like the alcoolase of Biichner. It is then very probable 
that alcohol can be produced in our tissues, or be one of the necessary 
derivatives of their dissimilation." {Bull. aoc. chim., 3rd. S. vol. XXX, 
p. 339.) 

285 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

especially prejudiced, by the terrible evil of alcoholism, has long 
remained more utilitarian and persuaded, than experimental and 
confident. 

Used without abuse, fermented beverages agree with all those 
who find in too poor an alimentation only an insufficient recupera- 
tion : with the adult who works hard and is badly fed, with the 
convalescent who is recovering, with the old man who is decaying, 
and with the workman and sailor who have need of warmth. 
The use of wine and beer is a protection against the abuse of 
spirits. But generous wines, and alcohol itself, are especially 
valuable in cold, damp and marshy countries. Again it is well to 
know the danger to which the use of these Hquors which we are 
often tempted to abuse, exposes us. We shall revert to this 
important point in the chapter devoted to alcoholism (p; 307). 

Wine. 

Vegetable paheontology has established that the vine existed 
already in Asia, Africa and Southern Europe at the remote 
period of the tertiary age. Man found it there in the wild state ; 
he has collected, cultivated and modified it, he has produced 
innumerable varieties or species of vines. To-day the vine covers 
a fifteenth part of the land in France. It employs a sixth of the 
population. France annually gathers, on an average, 50,000,000 
hectolitres of wine. Spread over a population of 35,000,000 if 
all the French wine were consumed there, there would be 132 
litres per head per annum, or 362 centilitres per day. In reaUty, 
statistics showed that, in the towns, the consumption of wine is 
380 centilitres, or a little more than a third of a litre, per head per 
day, and a good deal less in the country. 

These figures show that if the danger of alcoholism exists in 
France, as everywhere in Europe, it is due not to the con- 
sumption of wine but to its very slight use, the tendency of the 
workmen for some years being to replace wine and beer, which 
only give the effects more slowly, by alcohol in its natural state, 
which has a stronger taste and which seems to bring him immediate 
comfort. 

Wins is the result of the alcoholic fermentation of the juice 
of the fresh grape arrived at maturity. It is an eminently 
complex liquid, varying according to the kind of vine, origin, 
year and the care which it has received, but always containing a 
set of principles which characterize it. These are, with water 
which forms 70 to 90 per cent, of it, vinous alcohol accompanied 
by a small proportion of homologous alcoliols, propylic, butylic 
and especially aniylic ; a very small quantity of ethers with a 
vinous or aromatic odour ; some glycerine ; sometimes a little 
mannite, inosit, glucose and levulose ; a trace of aldehyde, some 

286 



WINE 

pectic matters, gums and dextrins ; a very small quantity of 
fatty and albuminous substances ; some acids partly free and 
partly combined : acetic acid, propionic acid, malic, citric, suc- 
cinic, butyric, lactic and especially tartaric, the last in the form of 
acid tartrate of potash. Wine contains besides, some colouring, 
astringent and tannic substances, most often in the form of ferric 
salts ; some essences with an odour of fruits and vanilla ; various 
salts in which predominate potash, with a little lime, magnesia 
and alumin ; some phosphates, sulphates, chlorides, etc., and 
lastly some gases, carbonic acid and nitrogen. 

Of all these bodies water, ordinary alcohol, colouring matters, 
tartar, glycerine and sugar (the latter in the case of sweet wines, 
that is to say wines which have not completely fermented) are 
the most important by reason of their role and bulk.^ 

The weight of water varies in ordinary wines (sweet wines 
excepted) from 718 to 935 grms. per litre, that of alcohol from 
45 to 135 grms., that of glycerine from 4 to 13 grms., that of col- 
ouring matters from 0-6 to 2 grms. and more in red wines, that of 
tartrates from 1 to 3-75 grms. The whole of all the other sub- 
stances — -only reaches 9 to 13 grms. per litre. It is these, how- 
ever, which distinguish the different growths, which communicate 
to the wines their bouquet, vinous quality and special taste. The 
indefinite variations of these matters and their combinations 
which time slowly completes, make of some of these wines inimit- 
able beverages of an exquisite aroma and taste, differing with each 
wine and each growth. 

As we have already said, wine in moderate doses is a restora- 
tive aliment, a hygienic drink, a nerve exciter, qualities that 
it owes to its alcohol, its bouquet, to the ensemble of the materials 
which constitute it. 

Wines contain especially alcohol accompanied by ethers, 
essences and fixed substances. These last remain when these 
liquids are distilled. They form their dry extract, the weight of 
which varies from 14 to 90 grms. per litre. As a rule it is not 
less, for red wines, than four and a half times the weight of alcohol 
corresponding to this same volume of liquid. But still there are 
some wines which leave only 10 to 12 grms. of dry extract and 
others which furnish as much as 190 grms. per litre ; but the first 

1 By causing to ferment lOO kgs. of white sugar with the lees of 
white wines of Charente, MM. Claudon and Morin have obtained 50 kgs. 
of vinous alcohol, a little aldehyde, 158 grms. of isobutylenic alcohol, 
2,120 grms. of glycerine, 205 grms. of acetic acid, 452 grms. of succinic 
acid and 207 grms. of oils. The latter wore formed of 145 grms. of 
ordinary alcohol, 2 grms. of normal propylinic alcohol, 1 grm. of i.sobutylic 
alcohol and 50 grms. of amylic alcohol. Several of those products, the last 
in particular, are poisonous. They are mixed naturally in a very .imall 
proportion with ordinary alcohol, or with cognac extracted by the distilla- 
tion of fermented licjuids. 

287 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

more often come from mediocre and imperfectly ripened grapes ; 
the others are, on the contrary, sweet wines in which the sugar of 
the must originally exceeded, before fermentation, the weight 
of 200 to 220 grms. psr litre ; or else these are wines in which sul- 
phur has been put in which the sugar has been kept by an addition 
of alcohols, sulphurous acid, bisulphites, etc., substances which 
have paralyzed the action of the ferments. In general, the best 
red wines of our temperate countries (Burgundy, Bordelais, of 
the South) give from 16 to 26 grms. of dry extract per litre. 

Half of this dry residue is made up of glycerine, tartar, colouring 
matters and a few mineral salts. The other half comprises dex- 
trins, sugars, colouring or non-colouring tannins, aromatic prin- 
ciples, organic acid salts (succinic, citric, malic, tartaric), pectic 
matters and albuminoids, and finally some unknown principles. 

Alcohols enter into the constitution of wines to the extent of 
45 to 132 thousandths of their weight. They are almost solely 
represented by ethylic alcohol. Of the total weight of these 
alcohols, propylic alcohol forms at the most a thousandth part, 
butylic alcohol five thousandths, amylic alcohol 2-5 thousandths, 
but these proportions may be very variable. 

Wines, which like Madeira, Marsala and port contain more 
than 140 grms. of alcohol per litre, that is to say which show more 
than 17-5 degrees per cent, in the alcoholmeter, are alcoholized 
wines. Those which give less than 50 grms. of alcohol to the 
litre, or which show less than 6-2 degrees per cent, in the alcohol- 
meter, are wines too Hght, generally too green (that is to say, 
coming from badly ripened grapes) or else wines which have had 
water or sour wine added to them. However, some good wines 
of the South, of the Centre, of Burgundy, Bordelais, Alsace and 
Hungary can scarcely show 7 to 8 in the alcoholmeter. 

We have not to describe here ethylic alcohol itself. It will 
suffice that in the form of absolute alcohol it forms a spirituous, 
inflammable liquid boiling at 78-4°, of a density of 0-795 at 15°, 
gradually oxidizing in air, especially under the action of porous 
bodies or certain ferments, and gives aldehyde and acetic acid. 
We know that it produces drunkenness in man and animals when 
it is drunk to excess. 

Glycerine was discovered in wines by Pasteur. They contain 
from 4 to 13 grms. per Htre; even as much as 17 grms. per litre 
of it may be found in certain wines of Southern countries. This 
substance may be accompanied by mannite (wines of Bordeaux, 
Algeria), glycols, levulose, and perhaps erythrite. 

All these principles mixed with alcohol and succinic acid, con- 
tribute towards the vinous savour of the liquid. 

In the sweet wines, or j)ins de liqueur, in those called white wines 
made with a grape ripened on a screen before fermentation (white 
wines of Bordeaux, Rhenish wine), and in wines made from 

2m 



WINE 

dried grapes, some levulose may still be found in a very sensible 
quantity (50 to 60 grms. and more per litre) mixed or not with 
glucose. These are as many nutritive elements which cannot be 
neglected. 

Sweet wines, whether they come from grapes originally very 
rich in sugar, or whether they have been sweetened afterwards, 
like champagne, or whether they are the result of sulphured 
musts, that is to say the fermentation of which has been stopped 
before the sugar has completely disappeared, by the addition of 
an antiseptic such as sulphurous acid or alcohol, all these wines 
contain glucose and levulose in very variable quantities, being 
able to reach, as in certain Malagas, 150 grms. per litre. 

The organic acids, partly free or partly combined with mineral 
bases, partly etherized by alcohols, contribute to the flavour 
and bouquet of the wines. The most abundant, tartaric acid, 
is united almost entirely to potassium in the form of bitartrate 
of potash C^H^KO''. The acidity which this salt brings, varies in 
wines from one to two-thirds of the total fixed acidity, which is 
from 4 to 8 grms. per litre (expressed in SO*H^) for young wines. 
When they become old, this acidity diminishes and falls to 4 
grms., and even 1-5 grms. in the good French wines. 

Succinic acid is met with in all wines. In those from France, 
we find from 0-9 grms. to 1-5 grms. per litre with a little malic 
acid and perhaps citric acid. 

Lastly, the red wines may contain as much as 2 grms. per litre 
of oenotannic acid ; the white, only a trace. It is a special 
tannin which contributes to the preservation of wine. It gives 
with ferric salts a dark green precipitate soluble in the gastric 
juice. 

Amongst the volatile acids, we find in wines scarcely any (0-150 
grms. to 0-250 grms. per litre) acetic acid, with a trace of propionic, 
butyric and valeric acids (Ordonneau, Win(;kler). 

The bouquet of wines is only due in part to the whole of 
the ethers slowly formed by the union of the alcohols with the 
remaining free acids of the fermented liquid. 

M. Berthelot by drying wines with ordinary ether in a non-oxi- 
dizing atmosphere, has extracted from them the perfume. Its 
weight rose to about a thousandth part of that of the liquid. Of 
a fragrant odour for famous wines, this perfume is formed of amylic 
alcohol, of an essential oil in part mixed with true ethers, and a 
neutral principle appearing to belong to a group of very oxygen- 
ated aldehydes and forming the true bouquet essence. We know 
to-day that the materials which thus co-operate to give wines 
their very special aroma, are especially secreted by yeasts, the 
varieties of which differ according to the crus and vines. 

I have shown that the colouring substances of the red wines 
are not, as was formerly thought, one and the same material — 

289 U 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

cenoline — but that they differ with each variety of vine. How- 
ever they all belong to the same family of complex tannins char- 
acterized by their divisions, under the influence of melting potash, 
into phloroglucine and caffeic or hydroprotocatechic acids and 
a derivation of them, generally acrylic. These red pigments 
are substances with an astrigent taste, of an extreme oxidability 
in the presence of air and alkalies, colouring lead acetate violet, 
blue or dark green. 

The following is the composition that I have found for a few 
of them : — 



For Gamay 
„ Carignan 



C20H20O10 I For Grenache 
C21H20O10 1 „ Aramon 
I etc. 



C23H1801" 

etc. 



There are also nitrogenous matters in them, the amidogen 
NH^, partially replacing there the hydroxyl OH. 

The salts with mineral acids contained in wines are the phos- 
phates of potassium, lime, magnesia and of iron, chloride of 
potassium, etc. The sulphuric acid of the natural sulphates 
varies in wine from 0-109 to 0-308 grms. per litre ; the phosphoric 
acid from 0-15 grms. to 0-50 grms. ; iron from 0-008 grms. to 0050 
grms. per litre. We see that wine is not a negUgible source of 
iron for the organism. 

To sum up, a Utre of average wine contains the following pro- 
portions of the principal materials fit to provide us with energy 
by their combustion : — 



Alcohol 

Glycerine 

Reducing sugars, mannite, glycol 

Gum, dextrin, etc 

Cream of tartar 



Average. 



80 grms. 
6 „ 
1-5 „ 
1-0 „ 
2-0 „ 



Corresponding 
calories. 



5661 

25-8 

6-0 

4-2 

41 

606 



The combustion of the organic principles of a litre of average 
wine corresponds then to about 600 Calories. 

Now I will give you some average analyses of the most ordinary 
wines. In the following table alcohol is indicated in percentage 
degrees, which, multiphed by eight, would give in grammes the 
weight of this principle per litre. 



1 Beckoning that four-fifths alone of the fJcohol are utilized. 
290 



WINE 



Composition (Relating to the Litre) of Different French and 
Foreign Wines. 

















Eeduc - 




Alcohol 

in 


Dry 






Total 
acidity 




ing 
matter 




111 

Centesi- 
mal 
degrees. 


Extract 
at 


Gly- 
cerine. 


Tar- 
tar. 


ex- 
pressed 


Ash. 


reacting 
with 




100° 






in 
S0*H2. 




Trom- 
mer's 












grms. 




Test. 






grins. 




grms. 


grms. 




Red Burgundy. Average 


111° 


20-58 


— 


2-59 


4-53 


1-83 


1-31 


of " grand cms " 
















Cortona 


11-2 


23-8 


— 


3-76 


— 


1-92 


1-28 


Ordinary red Burgundy i 


9-14 


18-9 


6-0 


3-00 


5-24 


1-93 


1-32 


White Burgundy (average) 


9-02 


17-2 


— 





7-18 


— 


— 


Red Bordeaux (average of 


10-4 


20-3 


— 


2-09 


3-93 


2-31 


— 


" grands crus ")2 
















Ordinary red Bordeaux 


10-3 


22-08 


7-3 


1-57 


4-3 


2-33 


1-58 


(average) 
















White Bordeaux (Sauteme) 


10-4 


16-0 


— 


— 


— 


— 


3-6 


Medoc (Graves) 


11-6 


23-0 


— 


3-66 


4-45 


2-47 


1-60 


Red wines of Narbonne . 


11-0 


18-8 


— 


1-80 


4-2 


3-20 


0-95 


Wine of Aramon of Herault 


7-8 


17-0 





2-63 


5-10 


2-02 





Red wines of Gers . 


100 


21-4 


— 


1-08 


3-99 


1-19 


— 


Red wines of Algeria . 


11-3 


21-5 


— 


1-10 


4-51 


2-66 


0-70 


Red Italian wines (Ma- 


11-25 


16-05 


7-94 


— 


9-0 


1-20 


1-79 


rengo)'' 
















Red wine of Tuscany 


14-2 


13-9 


8-78 


— 


6-56 


1-82 


9-25 


(average) 
















Lacryma Christi (old red 


14-95 


108-9 


12-1 


-^ 


6-71 


4-95 


11613 


wine) 
















Muscat of Asti (white. 


13-73 


16-05 


7-94 


— 


9-0 


1-20 


1-79 


two years) 
















Ordinary red Spanish wines 


14-20 


23-1 


— 


1-08 


— 


2-60 


2-10 


Average red Rhenish wines 


11-50 


27-0 


— 


— 


7-0 


— 


4-09 


Average red wines of Alsace 


1114 


21-33 


— 


— 


3-30 


2-95 


0-49 


Average white wines of 


10-22 


19-54 


— 


— 


3-30 


2-21 


0-87 


Alsace 
















Hungarian white wines 


10-25 


26-30 


8-80 


— 


2-02 


1-80 


0-20 


( Feheztimpkon ) 
















Hungarian wine (Tokay) . 


12-00 


72-00 


9-0* 


— 


7-02 


3-00 


— 


Red wine of Corinth (Greece] 


14-84 


41-70 


8-86 


— 


4-57 


2-32 


3-84 



Wines, white or red, are slowly modified. The effect of their 
ageing consists : 1st, in the disappearance of a part of the fixed or 
volatile acids which, uniting with the alcohol, produce some fresh 
ethers accentuating and at the same time improving the bouquet 
and taste of these liquids ; 2nd, in the precipitation, by 

1 Analyses of twelve authentic Burgundy wines from two to four years 
old, by Ch. Girard. 

2 Average of twenty-one " grand crus " red Bordeaux. Analyses by 
the same. 

3 Analysis of Fausto Sestini. 

* This wine contained 51 grms. of sugar per litre, in addition. 

291 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

oxidation or other successive modifications, of colouring matters 
and tannins which leave a sediment in the form of lees. Old wine 
is more perfumed, lighter, less alcoholic, less charged with 
extract, and less intoxicating than new wine. 

Dry wines are those in which the sugar has almost entirely 
disappeared. They give in the mouth a warm and alcoholic 
impression. 

In sweet wmes, on the contrary, the sugar remains and its 
sweetness blends with the vinous and perfumed flavour of the 
drink. These wines, coming usually from very ripe and sweet 
grapes, may reach, either naturally or by the addition of alcohol 
at the moment of fermentation, the standard of 17 to 18 degrees 
per cent. Several of these are also obtained by adding to some 
fermented and alcoholized wines a certain quantity of must of 
grape, fresh or cooked. Malaga, Muscat, Port, Madeira, Sherry, 
are sweet wines. 

Sparkling wines are those which, such as the blanquette of 
Limouse, the wines of Asti, Champagne and Saumur, contain at 
the same time a certain quantity of sugar and a quantity of car- 
bonic gas sufficiently abundant to produce, when the bottle is 
opened, a sparkling froth which gives to these wines the piquant 
taste of carbonic gas due, generally, to the fermentation which 
has continued after the liquid has been bottled. 

We call some vinous liquids " piquettes," those which are derived 
from methodical mixing with a quantity of water, the fresh skins of 
grapes from which the forerunnings have already been extracted. 
These inferior wines are made on a vast scale, either for the cur- 
rent domestic needs, or with the object of adulterating genuine 
wines. The bouquet of bad wines is acidulous and rather agree- 
able when they are well made. Here are two analyses of them : — 





Inferior Wines made 

of the residuum of 

average Wine of 

Nar bonne. 


Inferior Wines made 

of tiie residuum of 

Wine of Roussillon 

(Grenach and Carignan). 


Alcohol (in centesimal degrees) . 

Extract at 100 

Reducing sugar 

Tartar . . 

Free tartaric acid 

Ash 

Total acidity in SO*H2 . . . 


5-9° 

17-9 grms. 
Traces 
3-59 grms. 
0-75 
4-681 
4-07 


6-1° 
19-0 grms. 
Traces 
3-30 grms. 
1-05 
4-94 2 
4-26 



The liquids which are obtained by adding to the residuum 
separated from the wine by means of a first pressing, a certain 

1 This inferior wine corresponded to 2-75 of S0'iH2 per litre. 

2 This inferior wine corresponded to 1-70 of SO^H^ per litre. 

292 



PLASTERED AND PHOSPHATED WINES 

quantity of tepid sugared water, then submitting the whole 
afresh to fermentation, we name sugared wines, grape-skin wines, 
wines of the second or third ferment, process wines, petiotises 
wines. The beverages thus obtained are agreeable and alcoholic 
and contain tartar in sufficient quantity, but they have 
neither the perfume, colour nor body of the wines of the first 
pressing. Their extract, vinous quality, their acidity and tannin 
are less than in wines properly so called. Here is a table of the 
composition of three of these wines made from the skins of grapes 
compared with the corresponding wines : — 





Alcohol. 


Extract 
in vacuo. 


Tannin. 


Tartar. 


Compara- 
tive 
Colora- 
tion. 




rWine of vintage 


12-4 


29-80 


3-62 


2-40 


100-0 


Tx i -nfx J 1 Wine of cor- 
Haut-MMoc-. responding 

. residuum 


ll-O 


18-13 


1-48 


1-98 


23-6 




Wine of vintage 
Wine of cor- 
responding 
residuum 


10-6 


24-10 


2-73 


2-68 


100-0 


Burgundy 


10-4 


17-40 


0-41 


1-77 


17-5 




Wine of vintage 
Wine of cor- 
responding 
. residuum 


9-5 


25-20 


2-66 


2-41 


100-0 


Isere 


9-1 


15-70 


1-20 


1-89 


51-5 



Some inferior wines or small wines called dry grape wines which 
are to-day rather generally consumed, are made from dry grapes, 
especially those which come to us from Greece, Spain, Turkey 
and Asia Minor. The dry fruit is partially pounded and digested for 
several days with warm water, and then submitted to fermentation. 
100 kgs. of dry grape of good quality can be made to give by this 
means about 3 hectolitres of a liquid showing 7 per cent, alcohol. 
These pseudo-wines are, as a rule, distinguished from ordinary 
wines by their richness in sugar and gums, and by their feeble 
proportion of tartar and extract. They are lacking in body and 
perfume. 

A propos of red wines it is again necessary to point out the 
rather general practice, immemorial in the South of France, which 
consists of plastering the vintage in order to give the wine more 
colour, vivacity and body. In rainy and hot years, the principal 
object of plastering is to purify, to precipitate the albuminoid 
and microbes — in brief to preserve them. But this addition of 
plaster to the vintage has the effect of introducing into the wine 
a corresponding quantity, not of sulphate of lime, but of acid 
sulphate of potassium and free tartaric acid. It is certain that 
the sulphate of potassium which forms in these wines, is unpleasant 
to many stomachs, and the Academy of Medicine in Paris, as well 

293 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

as the State, for the benefit of all interests, especially those of 
public hygiene, have a fixed maximum of plastering not exceeding 
2 grms. at the most of potassium sulphate per litre of wine. In 
this dose, this salt is most often inoffensive. As a proof of this we 
may note the state of the southern populations, French, Spanish or 
Italian who have used these wines, spoken of as plastered, con- 
stantly for centuries. But in exaggerated doses, from 4 to 7 grms. 
per litre, as was formerly employed in plastering, this practice 
has a dangerous influence on the health and comunicates besides 
a bitter and hard taste to the wine which lowers its quality. 
The plastered wines lose about haK of their natural phosphates. 
The non-plastered, on the contrary, gain in quality and fineness, 
if not in colour. It is necessary to be able to recognize that the 
antiseptic precautions applied to the grape, to the cellar and the 
casks, allow us to-day to do almost without plastering, even in 
the South of Europe and also in Africa. 

Bibasic phosphate of lime added to the vintage, exercises on 
the wine the effects of clarification and preservation which are 
obtained with plaster without its inconveniences (Hugounenq). 
Phosphating is then preferable to plastering, at least from the 
hygienic point of view. 



294 



N 



XXVI 

CIDER — PERRY — BEER 

EXT to wine the most general alcoholic beverages are cider, 
perry, and above all, beer. 

Cider — Perry. 

Cider. — Cider is the fermented juice of the apple ; perry, that 
of the pear. These two liquids appear to have been known from 
time immemorial in Europe, where apple and pear trees are abori- 
ginal. As early as Charlemagne we find, that in his Capitularies, 
that prince charges the administrators of his domains to engage 
men able to make cider or pomme (pomarium), men whom he 
calls siceratores? Cider, which used to be made in most of the 
provinces of France, gradually disappeared wherever they suc- 
ceeded in cultivating the vine. It was only towards tlie thirteenth 
century that it became the habitual drink of the Normans 
and then of the Bretons. However, it was made, and is still 
made, in small quantities in Maine, Gascony, Navarre, as well as 
in England and in the North of Italy. 

In France the annual production of cider, which before 1880 
did not exceed 10,000,000 hectolitres, reached an average of 
14,000,000 hectolitres during the twenty years 1879 to 1899. 
Normandy and Brittany consume on an average, 212 litres of 
cider per man per year. The consumption of perry does not 
reach a tenth of this figure. 

The cider apples are not generally edible. They are divided 
into three categories : — 

Sour apples which give an acid juice, clear, light and liable to 
turn black. 



1 Frenchmen in old days \vroto aidre and not cidre. This word conies 
from the Greek aix^pa- which is itself derived from a Hebrew term which 
signifies an intoxicating drink. •r 

295 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Sweet apples, less rich in juice, which yield a luscious extract, 
and a cider which is very agreeable but which tends to become 
sour. 

Bitter or rough apples which give a generous cider, coloured, 
having body and suitable for keeping. 

The best ciders are made by mixing the two last varieties. 
Sometimes pears are added to the extent of one-fifth to give the 
cider more bouquet. 

The cider apple when quite ripe is pounded mechanically, and 
20 per cent, of water are added to it. After some hours it is sub- 
mitted to pressure . 1 ,000 kgs . of apples thus yield 500 kgs . of j nice . 
This residuum is afterwards mixed with 150 to 200 litres of water 
and gives another 250 litres which brings the quantity of must 
corresponding to 1,000 kgs. of apples up to 750 htres.^ This juice 
is left to ferment either in casks or tubs, and after four or five days 
(the cellar being at a temperature which should not be less 
than 12° and not exceed 28°), it is decanted into small sulphured 
casks, the bung of which is only closed when the liquid has a 
density of not more than 1022, or 3° Beaume. The cider is drunk 
after it has passed through the winter and has been clarified, 
when the slow fermentation is ended, and when its flavour is 
developed. 

If we wish to obtain sweet and sparkling ciders, the ferment- 
ation is stopped when the liquid has only the degree of sweet- 
ness that is desired (or even a little more) ; from 8 to 10 grms. 
of bisulphate of potassium per hectolitre are added to the liquid 
and it is decanted into a small sulphured cask. After the 
winter, this clarified cider is bottled ; it remains sweet and in time 
becomes sparkling. 

Cider is, as we see, a more or less artificial drink. Looking to the 
fruit which lias furnished it and the subsequent preparations 
which it has undergone, it presents a very different composition. 
Here is the composition per htre of some good ciders according 
to the Laboratoire municipal and M. X. Roques : — 



1 In bad years the water added to cider ought to be diminished by half. 
If we wish the cider to have a ricliness of alcohol and to keep, we must 
add to the must a certain proportion of sugar. We reckon, that to raise 
the alcoholic standard 1 per cent, after fermentation, we ought to add 
1,800 grms. of sugar per hectolitre of must, and iu addition 100 to 150 
grms. of tartaric acid per 100 Utres of water. 



296 



CIDER 





Sparkling 
Cider of 
Gournay. 




DOCOMO-* 05 «o M rj CO 




to 


e 05 CO t^ o X o oo f5 CO 
K.c<) eo66 (N(n6<m6 


i 








T3 


cS 






5 


.9 0.2 a 




oo005(MCO (NCOCOt-— 1 


.1 


Sparkli 

Cider 

ViUavic 

(Spai 


»o 


g (N t;- M O OS 00 O O -^ 


1 




5c«5 iC 


a. 








"=**- "T- 








3°gS' 


o 


X CO (M O -* OCOMrHCO 






a o CO t- lo 00 o 00 >p CO 




S'OSJi 




S (N «o 6 o c^ (>i 6 (>i o 






to 


U)CO ■* 




d -i 








S ^ 








H M tj 


o 


oj -^fMOS OSOOMOW 




3 o 








S « 








on ^' 








fl 








a ^ 




OJOO-^OO: -^lO-^oiM 




S a^-n 


O 


gcot--*.^ -<^COC5<N 




a ft 


>C 


^lo -^od eh 0-1 S r^ c> 




"*i C/2 








oo i^ 








t>. 








ts 


g 


03 OO COOSt^iCO 




-tS § S 


00 


Kg ^ ' ' .•§ »C C^ (N <N 6 


^ 


3|g 


-* 




!2i 




u 


s 






s 








a< 


^ 


!s.S . 






CO 




^ 


^oo 2 Tit^cooo 




■* 






s!^ 


4 




^ o 




o 








1-H 




8 




o 




»rl ^ 




+3 




oarse Cii 

(about 

Bayeux 




grms. 
53-20 
16-50 

rem 6 

3-23 
2-68 
0-65 
215 
0-45 




o 




u 




t-t 




iti 


o 


05 00 t^ CO ^ CO 






grm 
66-9 

2-6 
1-7 
0-9 

2-5 
























00 


o 








o •* 








extract at 1 

acing sugar 

aric acid . 

lin 

in 

ity in H2S0 

total . 

fixed . 

volatile 
ble ash . 
lublo ash . 












"o 
^ 






o 
o 


fc,<Co3c3«« od 






< 



297 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

English ciders reach a standard of about 4" 8° in the alcohol- 
meter, those of Jersey 4°, those of Normandy 4' 6° to 3' 5°. The 
standards of 5° to 6° are suitable for keeping ciders. 

The amount of sugar in the juice of the apple being, on an 
average, 120 grms. per litre, the cider which comes from it should 
show 6" 8 in the alcoholmeter ; this result is very rarely attained. 

The tannin of cider is, like alcohol, a preserving principle, 
but if it is too abundant, the cider is rough and bitter. 

The acidity of cider is due especially to malic acid with which 
are associated traces of tartaric acid. The pear being in general 
more acid and more astringent than the apple, we understand the 
utiUty of the pear in making good cider, but only a small pro- 
portion of it should be added. 

The pectin or mucilaginous principle, forms a rather notable 
part of the extract. It gives body to the cider, which contains 
from 5 to 10 grms. per litre of it. 

The colouring matter of cider is not well understood. Its per- 
fume belongs to an essential oil partly formed of volatile ethers. 

If badly cared for, cider acidifies or turns thick and ropy. 
This last fault can be remedied by adding at the same time tar- 
taric acid, tannin and alcohol (500 cc. per hectolitre). In France 
they say that cider is " killed " when its light colour turns green 
or blackish. This is sometimes remedied by adding to the liquid 
40 grms. of tartaric acid per hectolitre and a little tannin. 

Cider is an excellent drink in which alcohol exists in an agree- 
able and diluted form. Nevertheless, for the worker who is 
greatly fatigued, it is not as good as wine, but it is as good and 
better than the latter as a refreshing liquid when it is mixed with 
water and used moderately. Cider, however, is a cold drink ; 
therefore like the beer-drinker, the cider-drinker accompanies 
his meal, if he can, with a small glass of brandy. It is there that 
the danger lies, the abuse of alcohol under the form of strong 
liquor very often growing little by little. 

Cider agrees with plethoric, arthritic and gouty people, 
according to the evidence of Garrod, provided that these invalids 
are not at the same time lymphatic or suflFering from cardiac 
affection. It owes these anti-gouty properties to its acid malates 
which excite renal activity and alkalize the blood. 

Badly fermented cider, thick, acid, viscous and ropy, as it is 
often drawn from casks into which air and fungi penetrate, 
is a bad drink, sometimes harmful by reason of the free acids and 
microbes which it contains. 

Perry. — Nearly all that we have just said of cider applies to 
perry. It should be made with special pears, quite ripe (mix- 
tures of sweet and sour varieties), brewed at the moment when 
their pulp yields to the pressure of the finger. Pears being a 
little less rich in sugar than apples, their must is obtained by 

298 



BEER 

adding to the pressed residuum only one-sixth of water. The fer- 
mentation ended, the Hquid is clarified and can be put into casks or 
bottles. The taste of perry is excellent. When well made, it 
very much resembles light champagne. But, the inferiority of 
perry to cider is due less to its greater acidity, than to a special 
exciting action which it exercises on the nerves and brain, an 
action which appears to be due to the exaggerated quantity of 
amylic ethers which it contains. 

Here is an average analysis after Behrend : — 



Per litre. 








Alcohol (in degrees) 


6-9° 




Extract dry at 


100° . 


51-6 grms. 




Sugar . 




. 28 




Malic acid . 
Acetic acid . 




. 5-64 „1 
. 0-71 „) 


Total 6-35 


Ash . 




4-3 




Density 




1011 „ 





Beer 

Beer is the result of the fermentation of the grains of cereals, 
saccharified by malt with the addition of hops, and submitted 
to the action of yeast which changes the sugar into alcohol. 

It is the beverage of the countries in which the vine or apple 
does not grow well. It was known to the Egyptians, the Aryan 
people, Greeks, Gauls and Germans. To-day, in Europe alone, 
more than 128,000,000 hectolitres are consumed per annum, of 
which 36,000,000 are consumed in England, 24,000,000 in Ger- 
many and 9,000,000 in France. 

Generally the first material of beer is barley grain ; but all 
grains rich in starch are susceptible of saccharification and can 
produce beer ; barley is preferable for reasons of economy and 
ease of manufacture. Rice and maize have also been much 
used for some years. Oats and rye yield a beer which clarifies 
badly and turns acid. 

The manufacture of beer involves four successive operations : 
malting, brewing, hopping and fermentation. 

Malting consists of transforming the grain into malt, that is 
to say into a product in which the starch is to a large degree 
changed into dextrin and sugar of malt or maltose. To effect 
this, the barley is moderately wetted and then spread in granaries 
warmed first to 18° and then to 30° and 34°. There it slowly 
germinates and at the end of seven or eight days the gemmule 
having reached the length of two-thirds of the grain, the germina- 
tion is stopped by aeration and cooling, then by drying the whole 
in malt-kilns, rooms with perforated floors, when the grain is grad' 

299 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

uaUy raised to an increasing temperature of 30° to 35°, then to 
60°, 80° and beyond. 

During its germination, a diastase is developed in the grain 
which, acting on the starch, transforms it almost entirely 
into dextrin and maltose, both soluble in water. Dessication 
has the effect of completing this action and afterwards of allow- 
ing the germ, which would give a bad taste to the beer, to 
be separated by means of special mills. A malt easy to keep 
and ready for the brewhouse is then obtained. 

When it is desired to transform it into beer, it is ground and 
submitted to brewing. In this second operation the malt is 
macerated with water at 60°. The water dissolves the ferments 
of the malt, diastases and invertines, bringing them into close con- 
tact with the starch, dextrin and maltose. The ferments change 
these almost wholly into glucose directly fermentable and which 
dissolves in the liquid. 

At last, the latter contains nothing more than some glucose, 
a little dextrin and some nitrogenous soluble substances origin- 
ating from the grain, the albuminoid matters of which have 
been peptonized in a small proportion and transformed into 
different amides. This must is then raised to boiling point and 
from 600 grms. to 1 kg. of hops per hectolitre are added. The 
object of this is to aromatize the liquid and to make it keep 
better. The hops act chiefly by means of their bitter principle, 
Iwpulin, a yellowish secretion accumulated at the base of its 
bracts. Their tannin, by precipitating a part of the albu- 
minoids, makes the beer also clearer and less changeable. 

After hopping, the rapidly cooled must is submitted to fermen- 
tation. The latter can be carried out either at a temperature of 
15° to 30° {high fermentation), or at about 4° to 5° [loiv fermen- 
tation). Very different beers are obtained by these two methods. 

In high fermentation the must is put to ferment at about 10°, 
with the fresh yeast resulting from a previous high fermen- 
tation.^ The splitting up of the sugars begins rapidly : they are 
transformed into alcohol and carbonic acid. This gas is dissolved 
in the liquid and is partly set free, at the same time that the 
yeast feeds and reproduces itself. At the end of some hours for 
small beers, and after two or three days for keeping beers, the 
fermentation is stopped. 

In low fermentation the must is leavened at a temperature of 
5° to 6° only, with some low yeast, a variety of yeast with ellip- 
soidal grains, and the liquid is kept in cooled cellars. The yeast 
falls to the bottom of the vats and the fermentation goes on 
slowly. After eight to ten days the beer is made. If we wish 
to obtain beers which are to be kept, a very slow fermentation 

1 Arborescent yeast with round cells. 
300 



BEER 

is allowed to continue in the liquid kept in the cellar for seven 
or eight months at temperatures of 2° or 3°. 

In Belgium and Holland some special acid beers called Faro 
and Lamhick, are made with wheat malt. The must which comes 
from it, pretty generally hopped,^ is, after cooling, put into 
fresh vats without the addition of yeast ■; a slow and special fermen- 
tation is developed in them whence result at once alcohol, acetic 
acid, lactic acid, etc. Finally, a clear, acidulous, slightly alco- 
holic liquid is obtained, one fairly easy to preserve. 

Beer before being delivered for consumption should be gener- 
ally clarified by settlement or by fining. 

Good beer makes an agreeable, healthy and perfumed drink, 
with an alcoholic standard varying from 3° to 7° per cent. It 
is always charged with carbonic acid which makes it sparkling. 
It holds in solution some nitrogenous matters, glycerin, dex- 
trins and sugars which communicate to it their nutritive pro- 
perties ; some bitter and resinous tonic products ; acetic, suc- 
cinic, lactic, malic and tannic acids ; some salts, particularly 
alkaline and earthy phosphates. 

Unfortunately beer is modified or adulterated, either by an 
excess of alcohol in order to give it more body and resistance to 
spontaneous alterations, or by replacing hops by the leaves of 
the pine, fir, box, willow ; sometimes by quassia or gentian ; 
more rarely by adding injurious bitter substances (picric acid, 
colocynth, coculus Indicus, nux vomica, strychnine). Traces 
of these latter substances suffice to give to beer a very pro- 
nounced bitterness. Preservative agents are also very often 
added : salicyclic acid and salicylates, sulphurous acid and bisul- 
phites, oxalic acid, etc. Or it may be coloured with caramel, 
fat and the carbonate of ammonia mixed and superheated, 
etc. These are some of the bad practices which can only be 
noted here, and which may make this drink a dangerous 
liquid. 

I recollect also that for some time, especially in England, beers 
have been consumed containing a quantity of arsenic sufficiently 
marked to have caused numerous cases of poisoning. These 
beers had been manufactured not from barley-malt, as it is made 
in Germany and France, but with syrups of glucose, themselves 
obtained by saccharifying starch or fecula of the potato by com- 
mercial sulphuric acid, which often contains much arsenic. 

Lead ought to be banished from all the vats or pipes connected 
with beer. 

Here are the compositions of some true barley and hop beers. 
I borrow them from Les Documents du laboratoire municipal of 

1 Each brewer adds a special infusion of plants which aromatize his 
beer according to the taste of his customers. 

301 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Paris (1885 ; p. 196 seq.) and from the important work, so 
often quoted, of J. Koenig : — 

Percentage Composition of some weio, known Beebs (fob 100 cc). 



Tourtel beer (Nancy) 
Sfcrasbiirg beer 



Fanta beer (Paris) 
Munich (Salvator) 
Nuremberg 
Lowenbrau beer 
Bohemian beer 
Dresden ,, 
Hamburg „ 
Pilsen „ 

Dreher „ 
Porter (London) 
Ale (Scotch) . 

Faro . 
Lambick . 



Alcohol 






in vol. 


Dry 


Ash 


p. 100 or 


Extract. 




degree. 






5-8° 


7-6 g 


0-35 


4-8 


5-62 


0-30 


4-2 


46 


0-30 


4-7 


6-53 


0-20 


4-35 


9-78 


0-7 


4-5 


7-05 


0-23 


30 


60 


0-25 


3-46 


4-91 


0-19 


2-36 


303 


012 


3-98 


6-76 


0-25 


3-47 


4-97 


0-17 


3-60 


5-54 


0-24 


5-2 


6-4 


0-32 


5-8 


10-5 


— 


4-32 


515 


0-29 


5-94 


3-30 


0-31 



Sugar. 



Acidity 

in Lactic 

Acid. 



0-85 0-41 

— 0-58 
115 — 

— 0-18 

— 017 

016 
013 

0-16 
0-16 
0-17 



Observa- 
tions. 



d = 1015 



0-48 



0-89 
0-99 



Beer is then less alcoholic than wine ; it is also less stimulating, 
less fitted to give resistance to fatigue. It introduces in the sys- 
tem for the average quantity of 32 grms. of alcohol per litre and 
30 to 105 grms. of extract, a very great quantity of water. It 
only appeases thirst momentarily to excite it afterwards by the 
feeling of dryness and stickiness which it leaves in the mouth. 
It makes the drinker heavy, particularly by the specific action 
of the hop, an action which has been compared, although with 
great exaggeration, to that of Indian hemp. Its consumption, 
if often excessive, may lead to an atheromatous state of the heart 
and of the arteries, to the weakening of the power of resistance 
in illness, to the production of intestinal and vesical catarrh, 
especially if the beer is too new. 

These are its defects ; but its qualities are also quite as re- 
markable : a good beer constitutes a refreshing drink, very 
agreeable, nutritive by its extract, by its nitrogenous principles 
as much as by its alcohol, its phosphates, its dextrins ; tonic 
by its bitter substances ; diuretic ; stimulating by its carbonic 
acid, light to the stomach. 

^ The ash of this sample had the following percentage composition : 
Si02=16 6 ; K20 = 48 ; Na2O = 5 ; F^O^ = 200 ; PO<3IgH = 200 ; 
POiCaH = 2 6. 

2 Ash containing per cent.: SiO2=140; K2O = 290; Na2O = 01 ; 
CaO = 60; MgO = 7-7 ; Fe2O3 = 8; NaCl = 6 0; P205 = 29-3; SO3 = 50. 

3 With dextrin for 100 = 1-84. 

302 



BEER 

The abuse of beer is conducive to obesity, to distension of the 
stomach ; it may become one of the predisposing causes of gly- 
cosuria, of gout, of atheroma of the arteries and hence, of diseases 
of the heart. 

Germans are almost unanimous in declaring that beer taken 
while eating is unfavourable to digestion.^ They drink it be- 
tween their meals. Unless beer is taken in great quantities oris 
too new, it does not appear to me to possess any inconvenience 
when taken at meals. 

From the hygienic point of view, replacing hops by other 
aromatic or bitter ingredients may be useful or dangerous : the 
shoots of the fir, birch and willow have been tried and may re- 
place them without inconvenience. Gentian communicates to 
this drink a bitterness to which the stomach easily accommodates 
itself. But it is not the same with box and still less so with 
colculus Indicus, nux vomica, aloes and colocynth. 

1 Buchner, Deuts. Arch. f. klin. Med., t.X.IV, p. 3 ; Ogata, Arch. f. Hyg. 
t. Ill, p. 204. 



303 



XXVII 

BRANDIES AND STRONG ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS — ALCOHOLISM 

THE distillation of fermented liquors produces alcohol 
accompanied by the secondary products which form its 
bouquet and communicate to it the characteristics that show 
its source. The addition to these alcohols and hrmidies of 
extracts of fruits, perfumes and sugar provides the different 
alcoholic liquors (cassis, chartreuse, menthe, anisette, absinthe, 
etc.) which we sometimes take between or after meals. 

Of all these strong liquors, brandies made by distilling wines 
are most esteemed. They show from 30 to 80 per cent, in the 
alcoholmeter. 

The best known is cognac, produced by the distillation of the 
wines of Charente and more particularly of those produced by 
the vines called jolle blanche. After making it by distilling the 
wines in little metal stills and before sending out cognac for 
consumption, it is kept for years in small oak casks in which it 
is slowly oxidized, its ethers are left to develop and it loses a 
part of its alcohol, becomes charged with colouring matters, 
borrowed from the wood of the cask. Good cognac shows then 
from 50° to 56° per cent. 

The perfume of this exquisite drink is due chiefly to the ethers 
which are produced in it, to the essences pre-existing in the 
grape and to a feeble trace of hydropyridic alkaloids, sweet, 
but poisonous in a little larger dose, and which are formed during 
fermentation. Here, according to M. Ordonneau, is the com- 
position determined with great care of one of these authentic 
cognac brandies, twenty-five years old and showing 50 per cent. 
In this analysis the numbers all relate to 1 hectolitre which 
was used for experiment. It weighed 91,000 grms. (see Bull. 
Soc. Chim., Paris, 1886, p. 334). There were found in it : — 

Ethylic alcohol .... 40,000 grms. 
Other alcohols and different essences . 408 „ 

Water 59,592 „ 



91,000 grms. = 100 litres 
304 



STRONG ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS 

The 408 grms. of alcohol other than ethylic alcohol, and the 
different essences indicated in this analysis, were in their turn 
composed as follows : — 



Acetic aldehyde 



9 grms. 



Acetic ether ....... 35 

Acetal ........ Traces 

Normal propylic alcohol . . . . . 40 ,: 

Normal butylic alcohol . . . . . 218-6 , 

Amylic alcohol 83 80 , 

HexyUc „ 0-60 , 

Heptylic „ ) 

Superior „ I 

Propionic and butylic ethers .... 3 

Caproic ethers^ 

Oenanthylic „ [ 12-40 

Oenanthic „ J 

Oenanthic acid ...... 4 

Different bases ...... Traces 



1-50 



Total 407-90 grms. 

Isobutylic alcohol has not been found in this product. The 
quantity of amylic alcohol (the most dangerous of these alco- 
hols) is, we see, only 0-83 grms. per litre of cognac, or 13 milli- 
grammes per small glass of 16 cc. 

Associated with the oenanthic ether, which contributes much 
to the flavour of cognac, we find some decigrammes in this 
liquor of a special terpene very oxidizable and boiling at 173°. 
This gives in part to wines and brandies their vinous character, 
so peculiar to them, and their perfume. Some open-chain 
amines and pyridic and hydropyric alkaloids (which I have since 
found in a very small proportion together with M. G. Hal- 
phen in musts and wines), also contribute to the bouquet of 
the brandies from Cognac, Armagnac, etc. According to M. 
Lindet, brandies made from wine residue and cider would con- 
tain from 5 to 6 milligrammes of these bases per litre. 

The residue of fermented grapes distilled with water gives a 
brandy called an eau de vie de marc. It contains furfurol and 
some butylic and amylic alcohols in rather large quantities. 

The juice of cane sugar, fermented and distilled, produces 
rum. The fermentation of molasses gives tafia. Rum contains 
in volume from 50 to 65 per cent of alcohol. 

Under this name is also sold a product manufactured with 
the parts of brandies made from grains or potato most charged 
with amylic alcohol. These very noxious liquors may contain 
as much as 100 milligrammes of jDyridic bases per litre. The 
taste and odour is disguised by adding an essence of artificial 
rum, a mixture of formate of ethyl and methyl. 

Kirschwasser is obtained by distilling the fermented juice 
of wild or black cherries. It contains from 45 to 50 per cent. 

305 X 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of alcohol by volume. We find in it 30 to 100 milligrammes of 
hydrocyanic acid per litre. 

Plum brandy, or slihowitz, is obtained by the distillation of 
the pulp of this fruit after fermentation. 

Arack is the product of the distillation of fermented rice or 
of palm tree wine. It contains a somewhat large proportion of 
amylic alcohol. 

Scotch whiskey is the result of the distillation of germinated 
and fermented barley. 

Anisette is an alcoholic infusion of anise or of the aniseed 
tree. It is a sweetened liqueur containing a feeble quantity 
of these essences. 

Absinthe. — This dangerous and strange beverage is obtained 
by distilling with alcohol the tops of large wormwood, hyssop, 
angelica, seeds of the aniseed tree, anise, fennel, etc. The 
liqueur absinthe contains, per litre, from 1 to 3 grms. of these 
essences. Its alcoholic standard varies from 40° to 70°. 
Absinthe is sometimes coloured with the juice of the nettle or 
hyssop, turmeric and sometimes even with aniline colours. 

The effects of this beverage are much more formidable than 
those of the alcohol which it contains.^ We shall return to this 
point later. 

Chartreuse, which slightly reminds one of absinthe, offers 
several varieties ; the green is the richest in alcohol. It is an 
alcoholate properly sweetened with juniper with tips of fir and 
odoriferous alpine plants. 

Bitter is obtained by steeping in alcohol at 50 to 60 per cent, 
some peel of bitter oranges and also different essences or aro- 
matics varying according to the brand. 

Cassis is an infusion made, when cold, of the well ripened 
fruit of the black currant bush in brandy of 50 or 60 per cent. 
At the end of some months the liquid is filtered and saturated 
with sugar. Taken in small quantities, as one often drinks it 
at the end of a meal, cassis is an inoffensive tonic and digestive 
liqueur. 

Vermont^ is obtained by the infusion in white alcoholized 
wines (18 to 20 per cent.), dry or sweet, of a certain number of 
roots or bitter species (small centaury, gentian, peel of bitter 



1 An average doso of 30 grms. of absinthe liqueur contains: — 



Half-refined absinthe 
Refined absinthe . 
Swiss absinthe 



Alcohol. 



15 grms. 
20-4 „ 
24-2 „ 



Essence of Absinthe. 



0-010 grms. 
0-010 „ 
0-010 „ 



2 From the German Wermuth, absinthe. 

306 



other Essences. 



0-046 grms. 
0-084 „ 
0-085 „ 



ALCOHOLISM 



oranges), then adding a flavour or extract of odoriferous plants 
(absinthe, cinnamon, nutmeg, meadowsweet, etc.), the flavour 
differing according to the brand. To sum up, it is a white wine 
strongly aromatized and alcoholized, the bitterness of which 
slightly stimulates the stomach, if it is used in moderation. It 
is drunk pure but more often mixed with water. 

We cannot here enlarge further on the other liqueurs or 
artificial alcoholic drinks, such as gin, cura9ao, kummel, 
maraschino, noyeau and many others. 

Here is the summary composition per litre of the best known 
liqueurs : — 

Analysis of some Liqueurs. 





Specific 
Weight. 


Alcoholic 
Degree. 


Sugar. 


Other 
Extract. 


Ash. 


Authors. 


Absinthe 


0-9116 


58-9° 


0-00 


4-99 


Adrian ; Des- 














champs. 


Bitters .... 


1-071 


52 


325-7 


34-3 


0-43 


Krauch and Al- 
dendorff 


Kummel 


1-083 


34 


311-8 


8-4 


0-58 


— 


CuraQao 


1-030 


55 


285 


10 


0-4 


— 


Yellow Chartreuse 


1-080 


43-2 


343-5 


17-8 


— 


0. Reinke. 


Bordeaux Anisette 


1-085 


42 


344-4 


3-8 


0-4 


Krauch and Al- 
dendorff 



Alcoholism. 

The abuse of spirituous liquors or alcohol in its natural state 
has become, like opium, one of the scourges of humanity. In 
Africa, in America, in Australia, it is in a fair way to destroy 
entire populations. It threatens and strikes everywhere the 
strongest races. From year to year the danger continues to 
increase. 

In France the consumption of alcohol in its natural state has 
increased from 1-46 litres per head per annum in 1850 to 3-8 
litres in 1888. In Paris to-day it exceeds 7 litres. The con- 
sumption is more than 8 litres per head in Germany and Belgium, 
5-5 litres in Hungary, 9 litres in Holland. About 1884, before 
the repressive licensing laws for alcoholic drinks in Russia, 
it had risen to 9 litres in the province of Moscow and to 16-58 
litre ; in the town of St. Petersburg ! 

Thus it is that nearly everywhere the consumption of alcohol 
is increasing, and everywhere are increasing with it, crime and 
insanity. The fact that the abuse of alcohol arises in short 
from misery and ignorance and engenders them in its turn, bring- 
ing with it a train of pathological and moral consequences which 
we will run over here very rapidly. 

In the case of the man who has just taken too much alcoholic 
liquor, the momentary sensation of well-being and apparent 
vigour which follows the introduction of the first quantities of 

307 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

fermented liquid or alcohol in its natural state, is quickly suc- 
ceeded by a general excitation, and exaltation of sensibility, of 
thought and of the physical forces, a very slight giddiness and 
a little genetic ardour ; it is the beginning of intoxication. 

If the dose has been sufficient, to these phenomena are soon 
added more or less delirious conceptions, disorder of speech, 
incoordination of ideas and movements, a tendency to conges- 
tion, to insensibility, to muscular relaxation and to collapse if 
moderation has been too far exceeded. A deep sleep of some 
hours' duration, followed by perspiration and an abundant flow 
of urine, mark in general this state of acute poisoning by alcohol. 
If this is often renewed, and even without this daily excita- 
tion needing ever to reach drunkenness properly so called, 
the individual becomes by degrees alcoholic. 

Dyspepsia and gastritis are the rule in the case of these latter 
invalids. After rising from bed, they at once feel sensations of 
nausea. The liver congested, then fatty, becomes enlarged 
in volume, and later on it may become cirrhotic. The face 
gradually assumes a special pallor. The mucous membrane 
of the larynx and bronchi is purple and thick, the voice becomes 
hoarse ; there is respiratory oppression and a passive and con- 
tinuous congestion of the lungs with a manifest disposition 
to tuberculosis. The heart tends to become hypertrophied. 

In a more advanced stage one perceives troubles of the sensi- 
bility and memory, insomnia, depression, anxiety, anguish, 
dyspnoea and hot or cold sensations, hyperaesthesia of certain 
parts, especially of the soles of the feet ; then a more or less 
intermittent anaesthesia which may spread from the extremities 
to the trunk. The alcoholic sees scintillations and muscae 
volitantes before his eyes, and has buzzings in the ears. 

The intelhgence is slowly obscured, the brain and the nervous 
matter, incessantly congested and impregnated with alcohol, 
as Maurice Perrin and M. Nicloux have proved, are not long in 
degenerating, delirium tremens and insanity show themselves. 

These then are the troubles of the chronic poisoning, a state 
which henceforth the smallest quantity of alcohol, a glass of 
wine, some cubic centimetres of brandy are sufficient to keep 
up. Sometimes these unfortunate creatures appear calm and 
preoccupied as it were with a dream or fixed idea ; sometimes 
they are restless, victims of delirious ideas which haunt 
them especially during the night ; very often they mjure and 
strike those who approach them ; they are pursued by the idea 
of suicide or murder, or they are seized with foolish gaiety. 
Their muscles are twitched by uneven movements, they have 
convulsive uncoordinated tremblings, followed sometimes by 
genuine epileptic fits. The attack of alcoholic delirium is ter- 
minated by a deep sleep which only leaves the invaUd a vague 

308 



ALCOHOLISM 

remembrance of what has happened, with a general extreme 
lassitude and a slight muscular trembling. 

A graver matter is that the alcoholic transmits his defects by 
heredity. A great number of children of these unhappy people 
are victims of convulsions, subject to epilepsy, tuberculous 
meningitis, hysteria and scrofula. At a certain age, the desire 
for strong liquids develops in them too ; they become suscep- 
tible, nervous, violent and vicious and produce a fresh genera- 
tion of degenerates or madmen.^ 

Unfortunately in France alcoholism, favoured by wrong ideas 
about the Budget and politics, has for some years been making 
formidable and rapid progress. The defective will and per- 
haps the ignorance of public bodies and forgetfulness of moral 
laws, thus little by little lead to this decadence all those whose 
ignorance and whose passions are not considered. 

All alcohols are not equally toxic ^ : vinous alcohol is. less 
dangerous than the superior alcohols, but as it is much more 
abundant, it is to this that the phenomena of alcoholic intoxi- 
cation are more particularly attributable (Joffroy). Here are, 
according to Dujardin-Beaumetz and Audige, the relations of 

1 Out of a litter of twelve pups given birth to by a normal bitch mated 
with a vigorous dog, but who for eight months had been receiving II 
grms. of absinthe per day, tliere were two stillborn ; seven others suc- 
cumbed shortly after birth to tuberculosis, enteritis and epileptiform 
attacks. An unintelligent and lazy bitch given birth to by a mother 
who liad been subjected to chronic alcoholism mated with a normal vigor- 
ovis dog bore three pups ; one died a few hours after birth ; at the autopsy — 
an atrophy of the big toes, a club foot and a cleft palate were found. 
(Mairet and Combemale, Acad. Sciences, t. CVl, p. 667.) 

Gilbert, Ballet and Faure observed during four years five pairs of alcohol- 
ized dogs. None of the pups born during alcoholization lived more than a 
month, they were all attacked by convulsions and showed arrests of devel- 
opment, etc. Livanoff has shown that rabbits chronically alcoholized, 
present a general atrophy of all the viscera (except the spleen which is 
increased 30 per cent.). M. Nicloux, as has already been stated, has 
shown that alcohol passes from the mother to the foetus, and invades 
the organs while being formed. It also passes into the spermatic matter 
(P. Renault). 

In the case of animals which, subjected to chronic alcoholism, do not 
succumb during the course of the experiment, it has been observed that they 
become either thinner or fatter. Many become snappy, vicious and unin- 
telligent. Others are seized with muscular tremblings, convulsions, 
epileptiform attacks, gastric and intestinal intolerance. The stomach 
becomes congested, the glandular epithelium degenerates and becomes 
sclerosed. Cirrhosis of the liver lias not been proved to be a result of 
alcoholism. The lungs, heart and meninges are normal. 

On the subject of alcoholism and its effects see the article by R. Romme, 
Revue generale des Sciences, July 30, 1902, from which we have partly 
borrowed these facts. 

2 See on this subject Recherches sur la puissance toxique des alcools, by 
Dujardin-Beaumetz and Audige. Doin, publisher, Paris 1879, 1 vol. in -8; 
and Joftroy, Paris 1890. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

toxicity between the different products extracted from fer- 
mented liquids : — 

Toxic Doses per kilogramme of Animal (Dog).i 



Ethylic or vinous 


alcohol 7-75 


grms. 


Oenanthylic alcohol 


8 grms. 


Pure methylic 


7-0 




Glycerine 


8-75 ,. 


Propylic 


3-8 




Acetic aldehyde 


M „ 


Isopropylic 


3-7 




Acetic ether 


4-0 „ 


Butylic 


2-0 




Acetone 


5 


Amylie 


1-6 









4. Alcohols and brandies from 

grains. 

5. Alcohols from beetroot. 

6. „ „ potatoes. 



Pure ethylic alcohol . 


64 kilos 


Martinique rum . 


65 „ 


Cognac at 50° .... 


65 „ 


Brandy from the residue 




of Burgundy 


68 ,. 



1-50 grms. to 3 grms. of ethylic alcohol per kg. weight of the 
body cause transitory drunkenness ; at 6 grms. the results are 
very severe and death comes in two or three days. 

From the point of view of their increasing harmfulness, the 
industrial alcohols should be classified as follows : — 

1. Alcohol and brandy. 

2. Cider brandy. 

3. Brandy made from residue of 

grapes and perry. 

According to M. Antheaume,^ a litre of the following alcoholic 
drinks kills the weight of living subjects which we here indi- 
cate : — 

Kirschwasser at 50° . 64 5 kilos 
Brandy from cider at 

50° 65 

Brandy from plums at 

50° 63-2 „ 

We see that if the impurities of alcohols are much more dan- 
gerous than ordinary alcohol, the preponderance of the weight of 
this latter in the different liqueurs determines the greater part of 
the toxicity of these products which appear to vary only slightly. 

But if vinous or industrial alcohol has essences of anise, badiane, 
origan, mint, balm-mint, absinthe, etc., added to it, the 
harmful effects are very sensibly increased. The most dan- 
gerous of these liqueurs are the two last, but more particularly 
absinthe. It can produce in time in the drinker, alcoholic 
delirium, violent and criminal madness and epileptiform con- 
vulsive attacks. Absinthism is even more dangerous than chronic 
alcoholism. 

A healthy and sufficient diet, facility for obtaining a light 
wine and heer cheaply, and the use of tea and coffee, are the best 
dietetic means with which to combat these grievous habits. 

But it is above all necessary that the workman should know 
that in being driven to drink, he becomes debased and degraded, 
that an iniquitous toll and tax are thus levied upon his salary, 
and that the only result for him and his, can be physical and 
moral misery. 

1 By subcutaneous injections. 

2 See the thesis of Antheaumo, Paris 1897. 

310 



XXVIII 

CONDIMENTS 

TO the aromatic or alcoholic foods and beverages which we 
have just studied, should be added the condiments with 
which we supplement the different dishes in order to heighten 
their flavour, to perfume them and to excite the digestive organs. 
At most all are agents of high seasoning, serving to awaken the 
appetite, not to satisfy it. 

Several, such as the aromatic spices, wine, coffee, tea, etc., corre- 
spond to a sort of universal instinct which tends to associate 
sensations of an almost artistic order with the coarse gratification 
of hunger. 

We have already spoken of Pavlow's researches relative to the 
influence which gustatory and psychical impressions exercise 
upon the secretory nerves of the stomach and of the intestine the 
activity of which they provoke. It is not to be doubted that in 
virtue of this mechanism condiments do facilitate the digestion 
and assimilation of foods. It is in this sense that they may be 
agents of economy. It is certain that the people who use them 
to the greatest extent are also the most sober. Speaking of the 
arrival of the Chinese in the Moluccas, Raynal {Hist. Philos. 
I, p. 17) writes : " A sober, independent people, opposed to 
work, had lived for centuries on flour of sago and cocoanut 
milk when the Chinese, having landed by chance in the Moluccas, 
in the middle ages, discovered there cloves and nutmeg, two 
precious spices that were unknown to the ancients." 

Of these condiments those to which every rational and well 
regulated kitchen has recourse, from the clove and nutmeg to 
sugar and salt, are valuable agents, which accelerate the circula- 
tion, the intestinal secretions and digestion ; but one must not 
use them to excess. After any excitement of the nervous sys- 
tem, one is conscious of relaxation of the mind, fatigue, debility 
and insensibility. Every one knows how much the exaggerated 
use of spiced condiments, for example, quickly fatigues the sto- 
mach which they excite and cloy very rapidly, causing the appetite 
to disappear. Like coffee, alcohol, wines, perfumes, it is neces- 
sary to know how to use condiments in moderation if one does 
not wish to lose, and more than lose, all the benefit which they 
may procure for us. 

311 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

In modifying almost indefinitely the savour and the odours 
of the same foods, such as meat and vegetables, condiments 
enable us to endure and digest them more easily. They also 
allow us to moderate the use of alcohoHc drinks. 

Several of these ingredients play yet another part. They 
behave like antiseptics, keeping in check microbic fermentation, 
either directly or by favouring the action of the soluble digestive 
ferments and the hydrochloric acid which the intestine secretes 
more abundantly under their influence. The aromatic spices, 
salt, garlic, horseradish, mustard, etc., are antiseptics. They im- 
prove the taste of foods, often coarse, sometimes even indigestible 
or damaged, which they render acceptable or inoffensive. Hence 
their widespread usage from time immemorial among the working 
classes. 

We shall divide condiments into aromatic, acrid or peppered, 
alliaceous, acid, salted, sugared and condiments of animal origin. 

(a) Aromatic Condiments. — The principal are : VaniUa, cin- 
namon, clove, nutmeg, aniseed, cumin, fennel, chervil, parsley, 
saffron, laurel, sage, savory, pimpernel, etc. 

All these ingredients contain essential oils, aromatic, excitant 
and antiseptic. We shall say of each of them only what is indis- 
pensable. 

Vanilla is the siliquous fruit of the Epidendron vanilla, an orchid 
of Mexico, Columbia and Guiana. The most esteemed is in 
pods 16 to 18 centimetres long, deep brown, with a soft surface, 
often covered with a crystalline rim,e. They exhale a sweet 
odour which they owe principally to the vanillin or vanillic 
aldehyde C«H=*(C0H)i(0H)^(0CH3)^ Good vanillas contain 
from 15 to 25 per cent, of it. This essence is accompanied 
by vanillic acid, fatty matters, a slightly odorous resin, and 
sometimes by another aldehj'^de which gives to the fruit a slight 
perfume of heUotrope. 

Vanilla in powder or in pods serves to aromatize sugared dishes, 
chocolate, etc. 

Vanillin, or rather a glucoside capable of producing it by hy- 
drolysis, exists also in oats. It is one of the agents of the stimula- 
tion which this food effects in the animal which feeds on it.^ 

Nutmeg is the kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree {Myristica 
moschata; Myristicem). Its powder exhales a strong aromatic 
odour ; its taste is both pungent and hot. A fragrant butter is 
obtained from the nutmeg, formed of myristin {(^W)"'{<^*W^O^f 
mixed with other oily glycerides, and with an essence C'°ff® which 
boils at 165°, and has a strong flavour and a very well developed 
odour of nutmeg (Cloez). 

1 Vanillin appears sometimes to exist in the blood of the horse fed on 
oats ; it has been found in some indigenous plants, among others in the 
Epipactia atrorubens (L. Maillard). 

312 



k 



AROMATIC CONDIMENTS 

The clove is the unopened flower of the clove tree {Caryophillus 
aromaticus of the myrtaceae family). The cloves of the Moluc- 
cas and of Bourbon are the most esteemed. This spice, which 
serves to perfume our dishes, contains, according to TrommsdorfF, 
18 per cent, of a volatile essence, pungent and aromatic, formed, 
out of 100 parts, of 92 parts of eugenol and 8 parts of a hydro- 
carbon in the (J^'W^ group. The eugenol C^'^ff^Qs jg ^he 
monomethylic ether of an allylpyrocatechine or allylgaicol 
C^W{Cn—GW=QW)\OB.f{OQW)\ It is also met with in 
the essence of cinnamon bark. 

In connexion with this oil, there is found in the clove a 
bitter and astringent matter (17 per cent.) ; water (15 per cent.) ; 
a resin (6 per cent.) ; cellulose (28 per cent.). 

Cinnamon is formed of the rolled bark of the Laurus cassia and 
cinnamomum (Lauracece) trees of Ceylon and China. Its colour 
is fawn, its taste hot, sweet and aromatic. It contains an essence 
formed of cinnamic aldehyde C«H«0 or C^ff — CH=CH— COH, 
cinnamene C^H®, cinnamic acid, a resin and a little eugenol. 

Aniseed is the fruit of the Pimpinella anisum (Umbelliferce). 
It has been from time immemorial mixed with certain kinds of 
cakes. It is used to perfume liqueurs and sweets. Its taste is 
piquant, agreeable, sweet and aromatic. Anise contains, like 
fennel, another umbelliferae also employed to aromatize some 
dishes, a hydrocarbon of the C^"H^^ system and a crystallizable 
ether, anethol (J^m^O or C«H4(OCH3)(CH=CH— CH^) which 
is again allied with the preceding essences. 

The concrete part of the essences of star aniseed (badiance) and 
of tarragon has a similar composition and constitution. 

Cumin, the seeds of which are also employed as if they were 
aniseed, contains an analogous essence from which cuminic 
aldehyde O°W^0, and even anethol are extracted. 

Chervil, which enters into our seasonings because of its agree- 
able aromatic flavour, is also furnished by an umbelliferae 
(Chcerophyllum sativum). It is the same with parsley 
{Apium petroselinum) the leaves of which are used to perfume the 
most various salted dishes. There is found in it an essential oil 
with a piquant odour and an oleaginous principle, apiol (J^W*0* 
or C«H(CH2— CH=CH2)i(OCH3)2(02CH2)"'' having a conges- 
tive action on the uterus and ovary. 

Sage, Wild Thyme, Thyme, Savory, -etc., which are used to aroma- 
tize our foods are labiated plants with analogous essences. That 
of thyme is acrid, very aromatic and penetrating and contains 
principally thymol (J^H}*0 or para-isopropylmetacresol 

(ywiOKncwYiCB. <ch')'' 

This body is accompanied by a little thymene C^^ff^ and 
cymene C^^H^*. 

313 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The laurel, another ingredient used in our kitchens, i 
he aromatic and stimulating leaf of the Laurus nobilis 
(Lauracece). 

The leaves of the cherry-laurel serve to perfume milk foods, 
syrups, etc. They owe their perfume to the essence of bitter 
almond C^H*'0 and to hydrocyanic acid feebly combined to- 
gether. 

Saffron is obtained from the stigmas, dried on screens, of the 
flower of the saffron or Crocus sativus (Iridece). It is cultivated 
and employed as seasoning, especially in Spain, in the South of 
France and Italy. It communicates a yellow colour to the 
dishes and an indefinable flavour, very peculiar, slightly sweet, 
bitter, aromatic and exciting. It contains 75 per cent, of a 
volatile essence, a fatty body fusible about 48°, an abundant 
colouring matter (68 per cent.) and crocin O^W^O^ or polychroUe 
soluble in water and diluted alcohol. This latter is capable, by 
hydrolysis, of being divided into sugar and an essential oil O^W*0 
of a strong saffron odour. 

Curcuma is used in India under the form of seasoning and 
often also in France, in the cary or curry mixed with capsicum 
and other aromatic spices. It is the root of an amomaceae 
Amomum curcuma) of Central Asia. It owes its flavour in a large 
measure to an acrid and odoriferous oil. It contains in abund- 
ance a yellow resinous matter, fecula, etc. Curcuma is an excit- 
ing and diuretic tonic. 

(6) Acrid or Peppered Condiments. — Amongst these we will 
mention ordinary pepper, ginger, capsicum, kava. 

These are excitants of the stomach and of the digestive tracts 
which they irritate and congest. Their antiseptic action is very 
restricted. 

Pepper is perhaps the most used of all spices. It comes to us 
from Malabar, Java, Borneo, Sumatra, Guiana. It is the fruit of 
the pepper-plant, a shrub of the family of the Piperaceoe. It is 
picked as soon as it is ripe and dried on canvas. It is the size of 
a very small pea covered with a very wrinkled rind, containing 
a greyish white seed, rather hard, of an acrid and aromatic flavour. 
This is the ordinary grey pepper. This same peeled seed, after 
steeping in salt or lime water, becomes white pepper, which is 
whitish grey and smooth on the surface. 

Pepper contains with a little ligneous matter, starch and some 
mineral salts, an essential volatile oil of the C^°H^^ system with 
the odour of pepper ; a very acrid concrete oil ; about 1 per 
cent, of a toxic alkaloid, piperidin, C^H'^N, and especially a 
crystallizable nitrogenous matter feebly alkaloid, the piperin 
Qi7jji9^Q3 wiiich pepper yields to alcohol. Potash transforms it 
into piperidin C^ff^N and piperic acid C^^ff "0* which seems to 
have itself the constitution ^^(C'H^— C0H)(0=^CH2)". 

314 



CONDIMENTS 

The average composition of pepper is according to Ch. Girard : 

Water .... 12 per cent. Albuminoid matters , 2 per cent. 
Volatile oil . . . 1-2 „ Starch .... 18 

Piperine .... 16 „ 

White pepper leaves about 1 per cent, of ash ; the grey from 
4"1 to 5'6. The alcohoHc extract may vary from 6'5 to 13'3 per 
cent. 

Pepper irritates the digestive and urinary tracts. It is aphro- 
disiac. 

Kava is another pepper not used in Europe. Its leaves serve 
as a masticatory in Eastern Asia. They are acrid, astringent, 
aromatic and sialagogue. 

Ginger is the tuberculous root of an Amomaceae of the Indies 
of Mexico, of the Antilles and of Cayenne, the Zinziber officinale. 
Its brownish powder possesses an acrid and sweet flavour, a 
strong odour, aromatic, slightly peppered. It is often added to 
pastry and to other foods. 

As regards vegetables we have already spoken of capsicum 
(see p. 254). It is slightly perfumed and more or less charged 
with a very acrid substance, capsicine, volatile at 100°, with an 
extremely stinging and caustic odour and flavour. The most 
dangerous of all is Cayenne pepper, capsicum haccatum or jasti- 
giatum. It comes from India and Java. 

(c) Alliaceous or Allylic Condiments. — Garlic, eschalot, scallion, 
onion, leek, rocambole, all furnished by the Liliacea? family ; 
horseradish, and especially mustard, of the family of Crucifer?e 
form this class of condiments. 

Except mustard, they have been already sufficiently described 
under ordinary vegetables (p. 241). 

The flour of mustard is prepared by pounding the seeds of 
Sinapis nigra (Cruciferae). It contains sweet oily glycerides 
(26 to 28 per cent.), glucose, gums, different colouring matters, 
chlorophyll, salts ; but its chief characteristic is the myronate 
of potash from which the essence is derived. This salt 
represents 1 to 2 per cent, of the weight of the seed. The 
essence of mustard, indeed, does not exist at first in the 
fruit ; it is developed in the flour only by the addition of cold 
or tepid water (not boiling), which, dissolving a diastase, myrosin, 
allows this ferment to act on the myronate of potash (Bussy). 
Under this influence this salt decomposes into glucose, sulpho- 
cyanide of allyl and bi-sulphate of potash according to the 



uation : 




C'off^NKS^O^" 


= Cff^Qs + C^HSN = C = S + SO^KH 


Myronate of 


Sugar. Sulpho-cvanido Bisniphate 


potash. 


of aliyl. of K. 


The essence of 


mustard is constituted by the sulphocyanide 



of allyl thus formed. 

315 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Horseradish, cress, radishes, contain the same principle and 
the same essence. 

Its action, irritant to the tongue and the olfactory nerves, is 
borne well by the stomach, the secretions and vigour of which it 
increases. But it possess 3S another valuable property besides, 
that of bein;? one of the most powerful antiseptics known. The 
sulphide of allyl (C^H5)^S of garlic and of other alliacea possesses 
the same characteristic. Mustard, garlic and onion allow then 
of the digestion of foods, sometimes doubtful, by exciting the 
stomach and rendering the digestive tracts aseptic. 

(d) Acid Condiments. — Vinegar, lemon, capers, gherkins and 
other preparations of this nature compose this fourth class. 

These condiments excite the taste and the appetite by their 
organic acids, free or in the form of acid salts : acetic, citric, malic, 

tartaric, oxalic acids They put the salivary glands and 

the stomach into a good digestive state if they are used in moder- 
ation. Mixed with water and sugar they provide excellent 
beverages to quench thirst. 

Vinegar made from wine, and especially that of wine from 
esteemed vintages such as Burgundy, Bordelais, South of France, 
Spain and Italy is a condiment of an agreeable and perfumed 
taste which has nothing but tlie acetic acid in common with the 
vinegars from beer, wood-alcohol or pyroligneous acid, etc. The 
colour of wine vinegar is yellow or red, its acid flavour is pure, 
its odour ethereal and delicate. It is often perfumed too with 
tarragon. Good vinegar may contain per litre from 40 to 60 
grms. of crystallizable acetic acid with which are joined the salts 
of the wine, and particularly cream of tartar. 

The vinegars of cider and perry somewhat suggest these liquors 
by their taste. They are yellowish and do not contain any cream 
of tartar. 

The vinegar of beer is yellow and suggests sour beer. 

Vinegar from wood always keeps a slight pyrogenous taste. 

That which is obtained l3y acidifying commercial alcohol by 
mycoderma aceti is not sensibly superior to it. These are liquors 
of which the dull acid flavour does not well satisfy the sense 
of taste. 

Capers, gherkins, pickles, etc., owe their acidity to the vinegar 
which is perfumed, as the case may be, with pepper, spices, tar- 
ragon, laurel, etc. 

(e) Salt Condiments. — Various salts of potassium, soda, lime, 
magnesia and iron are suitable for purposes of alimentation and 
play there an important part, as we shall see later (p. 321). 

But of all these salts chloride of sodium, or kitchen salt, is the 
salt which we introduce in its natural condition into our food. 
Salt exists in our extra-cellular plasmas, and we shall return 
again later to the importance of the part it plays in connexion 

3i6 



SUGARED CONDIMENTS 

with saline foods. We daily add directly from 6 to 8 grms. of 
it to our food. This addition is the more necessary the more 
alimentation is impoverished in chlorides. We have already said 
that salt protects the albuminoid substances against dissimilation. 
Salt is then pre-eminently an economical food. It enables the 
herbivora to take and digest fodder which they would refuse if 
it had not been previously salted. It excites the production of 
milk. It provokes in the omnivora the secretion of a more 
acid gastric juice. 

(/) Sugared Condiments. — We shall place among these condi- 
ments cane sugar, milk sugar and honey, although these ingre- 
dients are also genuine foods. 

Cane sugar or saccharose is extracted from the sugar cane, in 
the colonies, and from sugar beetroot in Europe. It is this 
which is principally found in sugared fruits slightly or not at 
all acid. Whatever be its origin, saccharose has always the 
same composition and corresponds, when it is pure and crystal- 
lized, to the formula C^^H^^O^"^. We will not describe this pro- 
duct here. It will suffice to say that this sugar, which is the 
commonest sugar, is white, crystalline, inodorous, very sweet, 
soluble in the third of its weight of water at 15° and in the fourth 
at 100°, Simple syrup of chemists is made with white sugar 
1,000 and water 525. This syrup boils at 105° and keeps without 
fermenting or turning brown. 

When saccharose is melted at 160° it gives a thick liquid which 
in cooling turns into a vitreous mass. It is this product which 
is wrongly called barley sugar. 

Saccharose is not only a condiment, it is also a food. Formerly 
a luxury, and even a medicine, it was replaced for the sake of 
economy by honey and the concentrated juices of sweet fruits. 
In France to-day 160,000,000 kgs. of sugar are consumed and, 
it seems, more than three times as much in England. 

In passing through the alimentary canal, cane sugar is inverted 
or changed into equal parts of glucose and levulose ; saccharose 
could not be directly assimilated if it were injected in the veins, 
as has been shown, since 1848, by Bouchardat and Sandras. 

Sugar is pleasant to the taste and nourishes after the manner 
of starch and fats. It is partly stored up in the liver under the 
form of glycogen. 

Lactine or milk sugar C^^H^^O^jH^O exists in the milk of mam- 
mals and also in some vegetables. Cow's milk contains 40 to 50 
grms., human milk 70 grms. of it per litre. It is a white substance, 
rather hard, which crackles between the teeth, not very sweet and 
soluble in six parts of cold water. Its specific rotatory power is 
[a](Z= -i-52°5. It may ferment directly under certain conditions. 
It is to this fermentation that koumiss and kephir owe their alco- 
hol. Milk sugar is transformed in the intestine into galactose and 

317 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

glucose which are afterwards reabsorbed. These sugars act 
Uke heat-producing foods. But M. Mosso has proved that, in- 
jected into the veins or given directly to animals, they possess 
also an evident exciting action on muscular contraction. 

We find in acid fruits such as cherries, grapes, gooseberries, 
etc., some inverted sugar formed by almost equal parts of glucose 
and levulose. This mixture is especially met with in honey. 
It is known that this product is disgorged by the bee after it has 
fed on the nectar of flowers. Separated from the cake of wax 
where it has been deposited, honey constitutes a semifluid sub- 
stance which becomes concentrated and hardens. It is formed 
of a mixture of glucose, levulose and a little saccharose with small 
quantities of aromatic and colouring principles. 

The most esteemed are those which come from Greece, Nar- 
bonne and Gatinais. Honey may be preserved indefinitely. 

It is shghtly laxative, especially the highly coloured kinds. 

Mead was the hqueur, more or less alcoholic, wMch was obtained 
by dissolving honey m ten to twelve times its weight of water 
and keeping this solution for some time ; it then underwent a 
spontaneous alcoholic fermentation. 

{g) Condiments of Animal Origin. — The preparations of half 
fermented fish, anchovies, caviare, botargo, made cheeses and 
extract of meat itself, should be cited in this place. 

The preparations of fermented fish which appear to be highly 
prized by the Cliinese, and formerly by the Ancients, are not so 
esteemed by us. 

Anchovies preserved in pickle, in pepper and other spices, 
smoked herrings, etc., are at the same time foods and stimulants 
of the appetite and digestive functions. Botargo, highly appre- 
ciated as a condiment on the French Mediterranean shores, is 
made of mullets' roes or of umbrina dried in the sun in the envelope 
of their gland. One should compare with this caviare, the eggs 
pressed and salted, sometimes shghtly smoked, of the great stur- 
geon, the sangle, the ablet and bream. Like botargo, caviare, 
concerning which we have already said a few words (p. 204), 
forms a dish very rich in nucleoproteids and other nitrogenous 
and phosphorated principles giving by decomposition some hexone 
bases (Kossel). Here is the composition, rather variable how- 
ever, of the caviare of the sturgeon, as being the best known : — 

Caviare of Sturgeon. 

Water 37-5 56-97 

Nitrogenous matters 29-2 27'87 

Fatty" matters 6-3 12-85 

Other non-nitrogenous organic matters . . 7-8 — 

JVIineral salts 9-3 2-31 

A part of the salts mentioned in these analyses (4" 8 out of 9' 3 
in the first case) is chloride of sodium added to this preparation. 

318 



CONDIMENTS 

The caviare of Astrakan is more esteemed than that of the 
Elbe. Certain caviares (the lastychnala for example) are pre- 
pared with very ripe eggs fermented and salted. 

AU these preparations appear to be very easily digested. 

Anchovies preserved in brine, aromatized with pepper, laurel, 
etc., form a delicate dish and a stimulant to the appetite. They 
contain in 100 parts : Water, 58 ; albuminoids, 23 ; fats, 2" 3 ; and 
salts, 24, of which 19 to 20 are ordinary salt. 



I 



319 



XXIX 

INORGANIC FOODS 

THE system not only needs organic alimentary matters ; 
water and the fixed mineral substances are absolutely in- 
dispensable to it. We shall first consider the latter. 

We have already seen (p. 29) that mineral salts enter into 
the composition of all the organs and plasmas of animals. In 
the bones, muscles, nerve-tissues, skin, different glands, blood, 
lymph, etc., these substances exist in relative quantities almost 
invariable, and for each organ they vary little according to the 
state of health. Normally, mineral matters only change in 
absolute quantity and proportions from one tissue to another : 
fresh muscles contain 11 to IS per cent, of them, the blood 09 
to 1-15, fresh bones 34 to 37 per cent. These statements will 
suffice by themselves alone to show that these salts play an 
important part in the organs since they are localized in them by 
selection. 

On the other hand, saline matters are constantly eliminated 
by the urine, faeces, sweat, epithelial desquamation, etc. The 
adult thus loses every day 26 to 27 grms. of these substances, 
about half of which is made up of sea-salt. The growth of young 
animals further increases the need of fixed salts : 3 to 38 grms. 
of phosphate of lime are necessary per week to form the body 
of the young child ; he must then find about 027 grms. of lime 
and nearly 010 grms. of phosphorus every day in the milk and 
other substances on which he is fed. The foods ought to repair 
these losses incessantly and to supply these mineral needs. 

The salts of the organism play besides an important part in 
the nutritive exchanges. Between two different contiguous 
ceUs, or between each of these cells and the plasma which bathes 
them, it is necessary, in order that the nutritive exchanges may 
be accomplished, that there should be a cause producing the 
circulation of the products. Salts, in becoming diluted in the 
humours of the organism, introduce their osmotic tensions that 
are best compared to a tension of vapour which presses on the 
cell walls and tends to traverse them in such a manner as to 
establish isotony, that is to say, equality of pressure on the 
two sides. Hence, this circulation from outside to inside and 
from inside to outside which, according to the nature of the 

320 



INORGANIC FOODS 

dissolved salts, carries away, chemically or physically, the sub- 
stances which are either combined with these salts or dissolved, 
the products of secretion and the matters for assimilation. 

Thus, as soon as one attempts to deprive the organism of its 
mineral matters, the discomfort daily becomes greater. However 
sufficient the alimentation may be in other respects, cachexia 
and death are the consequences of this privation. 

Chossat, Boussingault, then Forster and many others, studied 
the efifects on the organism of this privation of salts. Forster ^ 
fed some dogs with the powder of boiled meat drained of water 
(it only left 0-8 grms. of ash per cent.) ; to this aliment he added 
starchy substances and fats in the quantities and proportions of 
normal alimentation. He noticed that as the organism grew poorer 
in salts, the subjects under experiment grew weaker : stupidity, 
trembling, muscular weakness, sluggishness of the lower parts 
and convulsions appeared. Finally digestive troubles and 
vomitings took place. The animals died at the end of twenty- 
six to thirty-six days, whereas some other dogs subjected to 
complete alimentary inanition lived from forty to sixty days. 

Kemmerich also tried to feed two dogs with meat exhausted 
of salts by boiling water. To this imperfect nutriment he added, 
in the case of one of the two animals, a little of the residue 
obtained from the incineration of meat broth, in the case of the 
other, sea-salt only. The first dog prospered, the second no longer 
increased in weight. This observation at once shows the pre- 
ponderating influence of certain mineral salts which are met 
with in the tissues and plasmas, in particular of the alkaline and 
earthy phosphates of extract of meat. 

The fact is that all the proteid matters of our cells and humours 
are united to these phosphates, without which they would not 
be able to perform their functions. 

The indispensable mineral matters are brought to us by the 
usual foods in very different forms. Substances of animal 
origin contain, united with their albuminoid substances, organic 
phosphorus and sulphur which, by their decomposition and oxida- 
tion in the economy, are changed into phosphoric and sulphuric 
acids, thus furnishing an excess of these acids which tends to acidify 
the blood. The vegetable foods, on the contrary (except bread 
and cereals), always bring us an excess of bases. Thus they 
alkalize the humours. 

The following table gives, for 1,000 parts of fresh foods, the 
quantity in grammes of the alkaline and acid principles which 
they contain. We shall notice the relative poorness of animal 
foods in basic contributions and, on the contrary, the richness 

1 Zeitsch. fiir Biolog. t. IX, p. 297 (1873). See also R. Tigerstedt, Le^r- 
huch der physiolog. 1897. 

321 Y 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of the vegetable foods in alkalies and even in phosphoric acid, 
but always with an excess of alkaline ba;Ses. 

CONTBIBXJTIONS IN BaSES AND ACIDS OF SOME FoODS OF AnIMAL OR 

Vegetable Origin. 



For 1,000 fresh parts. 


K20 


Na20 


CaO 


MgO. 


Fe203. 


P205. 


S03. 


CI. 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Meat of mammals 


3-5 


0-55 


0-51 


0-4 


0-03 


4-2 


2-2 


0-6 


Liver 


3-0 


1-2 


0-15 


0-01 


0-20 


4-6 


0-09 


0-3 


Brain 


M5 


1-0 


0-03 


0-41 


0-08 


M3 


0-14 


0-4 


Flesh of pike . 


1-46 


1-24 


0-45 


0-23 


— 


2-32 


0-15 


0-3 


Human milk 


2-03 


0-59 


0-85 


0-17 


0-01 


1-22 


— 


1-12 


Cow's milk 


2-39 


1-50 


2-16 
0-89 


0-28 


0-004 


2-65 
3-35 


0-1191 


2-28 


Wheat bread . 


1-69 


— 


Haricots 


13-2 


2-80 


1-97 


211 


0-35 


11-5 


1-602 


0-8 


Peas 


9-58 


3-75 


0-68 


2-41 


0-27 


9-67 


0-993 


0-14 


Beans . 


6-24 


5-71 


2-17 


2-66 


0-30 


11-38 


0-40* 


0-24 


Cauliflowers 


0-26 


Oil 


0-17 


0-02 


0004 


0-13 


0-115 


0-06 


Apples . 


1-30 


0-95 


0-15 


0-32 


0-05 


0-50 


0-22« 


! — 



As the flesh of animals contains a quantity of pre-existing 
phosphoric and sulphuric acids, capable of saturating, and more 
than that, all the bases contained in this food, it follows that 
the carnivora which feed exclusively on it, could not find in it the 
materials suitable for alkalizing their blood. Moreover, as we 
have just said, the oxidation of the sulphurated and phosphorated 
organic products of this muscular flesh gives also a certain pro- 
portion of free sulphuric and phosphoric acids. Finally, the 
dissimilation of the nucleins of the meat produces a fixed acid, 
uric acid, which tends to acidify the blood and plasmas. Unable 
to find in their food the alkali to neutralize their humours, the 
carnivorous animals procure it by means of a mechanism on 
which we have been enlightened chiefly by Schmiedeberg and 
Walter and later by Halle vorden.'' They perceived that, in the 
case of carnivorous animals and even in the case of omnivorous 
ones which do not get a sufficient quantity of vegetable alkalies, 
the organism by the destruction of its albuminoids makes alkaline 
bases, especially ammonia, and that in a greater proportion 
according to the greater abundance of the acids to be neutralized. 
But this mechanism, very powerful in the carnivora, has however 
a limit, the omnivorous animal cannot long do without alkaline 
foods, and particularly vegetables. 



This number 0119 refers to the silica SiO^, in this case, and not to SO^. 
In addition SiO 2 = 0- 14 grms. 3 In addition 006 grms. of Si02. 
In addition 0-73 grms. of Si02. 5 jn addition 0128 grms. of Si02. 
In addition 016 grms. of Si02. 
Arch. f. exp. Path. t. VII, p. 148, and t. X, p. 124. 



ALIMENTARY ALKALIES 



The calculation of the table (p. 31) of mineral losses which the 
adult undergoes in twenty-four hours by the urine, faeces and 
sweat, leads, in the case of acids and bases, to the following numbers 
corresponding to the daily needs of the organism in each of the 
mineral principles : — 



MiNEKAL Substances Necessary per 24 Hours. 
Bases. Acids. 



K20 

Na^O 

CaO 

MgO 

Fe203 



3-22 grms. 2 
7-70 „ 
1-47 „ 
0-56 „ 
0-04 „ 



F-0^ 3-9 grms. 

S03 2-031 „ 

S02 0-25 „ 

CI 8-502 „ 

C02 0-05 „ 



Let us see how we obtain these materials. 

Alimentary Alkalies. — The allowance for twenty -four hours con- 
taining 107 grms. of albumin corresponds to about 1 grm. of sulphur 
which, oxidizing to the extent of four-fifths in the system, will 
give 2 grms. of sulphuric anhydride SO^. The organic phosphorus 
is transformed, by the same mechanism, into about 0'3 grms. of 
phosphoric anhydride P^O^ per day. These acids would require 
altogether 2 3 grms. of potash, K^O (or the corresponding quantity 
of Na^O), in order to be neutralized as they are in the blood and 
humours. Such is the minimum quantity of these bases, that we 
ought to find each day in the vegetable foods alone capable of 
presenting them to us in the form of organic salts fit to be trans- 
formed into carbonates in the system. 

The different foods are far from bringing us the two principal 
alkalies, potash and soda, in equal quantities. The following 
table, drawn up by Bunge, gives the absolute and relative rich- 
ness in potash and soda of the different tissues, humours and 
alimentary substances. All the numbers are expressed in 
grammes and refer to 1,000 dry parts of each food : 

K20 Na20 
grms. 
0-03 



0-1-0-4 

O-I 
0-2 
1-10 



Rice 


grms. 
. . 1 


Oats 


; }- 


Wheat . 


Rye . . 
Barley . 


Apples . 
Peas 


. . 11 

. . 12 


Milk of hert 


)ivora . 9-17 





K20 


Na20 




grms. 


grms. 


Herbs . 


6-18 


0-3-1-5 


Beef . . . 


19 


3 


Ox-blood . 


2 


19 


Milk of a bitch 
Human milk . 


1 5-6 


2-3 
1-2 


Haricots . 


21 


0-1 


Strawberries . 


22 


0-2 


Potatoes . 


20-28 


0-3-0-6 



1 In reality we do not receive from our daily foods the 3-9 grms. of 
P20-' and 203 grms. of SO^ here indicated ; but the organic phos- 
phorus and sulphur of these foods, passing into the system in this form, 
ought to be included here in the form of P^O'' and SO^. 

2 Including the chlorine and sodium of the salt brought by alimentation 
for twenty-four hours. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Meat and milk bring us only very little of salts of soda : 007 
per cent, of chloride of sodium in muscular tissue ; 01 in 
milk. 

Except for the blood, we see the small part that soda plays in 
the living body in comparison with potash. It is in fact by the 
potash that the tissues are alkalized, and it is owing to this that 
the combustions are brought about which tend to provoke the 
oxidizing ferments. It is then potash (bicarbonate, tartrate, 
citrate, etc.) rather than soda or sodium carbonate which it is 
expedient to introduce into the system when one wishes to acceler- 
ate organic combustion. For that matter this is what plants 
achieve. They possess the singular faculty, even in the soils 
poorest in potash, even in those in which soda predominates, of 
choosing the salts of potassium necessary for their wants and of 
transforming them, by a mechanism which still escapes us, into 
organic acid salts. 

Brought to our tissues by the foods, these salts are transformed 
into carbonates owing to the oxidation of their combustible 
part, either in the cells or in the blood of herbivorous and omnivor- 
ous an'mals where they meet sodium cliloride. They immediately 
undergo with it a double decomposition. This results in carbonate 
or bicarbonate of soda whichialkalizes the plasma of the blood, and 
chloride of potassium which is partly eliminated by the kidneys. 
The carbonates of potash and soda, as well as the soda set free 
by the production of the gastric hydrocliloric acid which the 
peptons neutralize, are afterwards united with the phosphoric 
and sulphuric acids coming from the oxidation of the phosphorus 
and sulphur of the albuminoids, as well as with the taurochoUc 
and glycocholic acids incessantly poured into the intestine in 
the form of salts of soda ; these phosphates, sulphates and other 
sodium salts, which have become useless from that time, are 
thrown out with the urine and faeces. We lose each day from 
9 to 14 grms. of sea-salt and from 2 to 4 grms. of potash K^O by 
the urine. Hence the animal's constant need of alkaline salts : 
of those of potash, in the form of assimilable and combustible 
organic salts ; of those of soda in the form of chloride, of which 
the negative element passes into the gastric juice, which the 
basic element alkalizes the plasmas and forms the biliary salts. 
In the case of the omnivora, a small part of the acids originating 
from the organic combustions is also neutralized by a little 
ammonia formed in a small proportion at the expense of the 
albuminoids. These ammoniacal salts are partly thrown off 
with the urine. 

The sea-salt and the salts of potassium having thus disap- 
peared by double decomposition and afterwards renal elimin- 
ation, the want of these alkalies makes itself felt afresh ; hence 
the continued necessity of alkaline bases. 

324 



\ 



ALIMENTARY ALKALIES 

On the other hand, in the ease of the flesh-eater, the produc- 
tion of ammonia becoming preponderant, the need of salts of 
soda or of potash diminishes or disappears. Thus whilst frugiv- 
orous and omnivorous populations endeavour to obtain alkal- 
ine salts, carnivorous individuals and people (Ostiaks, Ton- 
go usses) do without these salts to a very great extent. 

The more vegetable the diet, the greater is the amount of sea- 
salt which should be added to the food. Generally 8 to 9 grms. 
per day is sufficient. 

Whatever be the method of alimentation, salt always remains 
in the blood a very nearly constant quantity except in complete 
and prolonged abstinence, when it may fall to a third of its usual 
amount. 

C. Voit^ Dehn,^ Schaumann,^ and A. Javal have observed 
that the addition of sea-salt or chloride of potassium to the food 
of animals produces polyuria and azoturia. Under its influence 
urea, even if the water taken into the stomach is not increased, is 
eliminated in greater abundance. C. Voit, in an experiment which 
lasted forty-nine days, found an increase of 106 grms. of urea 
in the total compared with the ordinary elimination.* The 
other alkali salts possess an analogous action, but much less 
pronounced. 

It is owing to these salts, and particularly to the chloride of 
sodium, that the majority of the products of dissimilation are 
eliminated by the kidneys : urea, complex amides, leucomains, 
etc., and, in the case of diabetics, glucose, either because these 
bodies are united directly with these salts, or because the pro- 
ducts of decomposition of the tissues are rendered soluble and 
are carried out by the soda, like the biliary acids, soda which, 
originating itself from salt, has undergone a double decompo- 
sition with the potassium salts of the tissues. It is known that 
chloruration of the organism increases hydrochloric stomachal 
secretion (Dastre, Linnossier). 

Thus we understand the beneficial influence of ordinary salt 
on health, in particular that of stable animals, an influence to 
which is perhaps added that of small quantities of arsenic which 
I have always found in sea-salt, and which, in these feeble doses, 
stimulates very favourably the vital mechanism. Hence also 
the well known action of salt on the appetite and fecundity. 

Complete privation of salt has the effect of considerably 
reducing that which we eliminate by the urine. From the third 
day onwards this quantity falls to 2 grms. then to 1 grm. or a 

1 Untersuch u. d. Einfluss des Kochsalz, 1860. 

2 Pflilger's Arch., Bd. XIII, p. 367. 

3 Diasertat. Halle, 1893. 

^ It is to a certain extent by the same mechanism that the salting of 
meat partly eliminates the extractives in the form of brine. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



little less and afterwards remains constant (Forster). If salt 
is then given to the creature, this salt accumulates in the blood 
until the normal amount is re-established. On the other hand, 
if deprived of salt, the creature tends to dehydrate itself ; whence 
has arisen the practical observation concerning the treatment 
of oedema, dropsies, ascites and Bright's disease by dechlorin- 
ation. We shall return to this point a propos of methods of 
treatment. 

Salts of the Earthy Alkalines. — The salts of lime and magnesia 
are not less indispensable to life than the alkaline salts. They 
are very unequally furnished to us by the articles of food. The 
following figures, which indicate their richness in these bases, 
are borrowed from Bunge : 



For 100 parts of Dry Food. 


- 


CaO 


MgO. 


Cow's milk 


1-51 


0-20 


Yolk of egg 










0-38 


0-06 


White of egg 










013 


0-13 


Human milk 










0-243 


0-05 


Beef . . 










0-029 


0-15 


Brain 










0-080 


0-24 


Wheat . 










0-065 


0-24 


Potatoes 










0-10 


0-19 


Peas 










0-137 


0-220 



Lime, like magnesia, is found in the system : 1st. Under the 
organic form of lecithins, lecithalbumins, etc., or under still 
more complex forms of such a kind that these elements cannot 
be detected before the organic molecule which contains them 
has been destroyed. Magnesium is better fitted than calcium 
to furnish these complex combinations. 

2nd. Under a semi-organic form united to the albumins and 
complex substances of the tissues, under the form of albumin- 
ates which can be broken up by means of the action of weak 
acids and dialysis. 

3rd. Finally under the form of mineral or organic salts soluble 
or insoluble (sulphates, lactates, phosphates, etc.) which allow of 
the circulation and excretion of these combinations of metals. 

It was interesting to see how these two bases vary in the case 
of the same animul. Here are the quantities of lime and mag- 
nesia found in the different organs of the same dog by Professor 
Aloy^ of Toulouse. All these proportions are calculated in milli- 
grammes and refer to 1,000 parts of fresh tissue : — 

1 Le calcium et le magnesium chez les etres vivants, by Prof. F. Aloy. 
Toulouse, 1897. 



326 



CHALK AND MAGNESIA IN FOODS 



Brain .... 
Muscle .... 
Defibrinated \glohules 
Blood / serum 
Hair .... 

Aponeuroses 
Bone (tibia) 
Heart .... 
Liver .... 
Kidney .... 
Spleen .... 



Dog weighing 
10-5 kgs. 
(3 yrs. old). 



Ca Mg 

28 84 

147 270 

very sm.0-05 

80 24 

185 19 

130 

21000 450 

357 440 

175 48 

238 126 

392 64 



Bitch weighing 
13-2 kgs. 



Ca Mg 

14 72 

196 332 

nil 002 

50 12 

280 22 

180 36 

18900 631 

380 498 

259 66 

350 192 

448 72 



Ca 

Mg 



0-33 019 

0-54 0-60 

very small 

33 27 



8-2 
40 
40-6 
0-81 
3-6 
1-8 
7-5 



12-7 
5 

311 
0-76 
3-9 
1-8 
63 



Average. 



0-26 
0-57 
very small 
3 
10-4 
4-5 
383 
0-78 
3-7 
1-8 
6-8 



In the case of the horse, Prof. Aloy has found per kg. : — 

MgO 



Brain 
Muscle 



CaO 

0-050 

0-310 



0-150 
0-740 



We see that magnesia predominates in the brain, muscles, 
globules of the blood, thymus and suprarenal capsules. Eggs 
are also very rich in magnesium. Microbes themselves could 
not do without it. In no case can lime replace magnesia. For 
foods, magnesia accompanied by phosphates of potassium is 
met with, especially in the seeds. It is abundant in wheat 
bread, potatoes and the other tubercles, as well as in veget- 
ables. It is always accompanied by phosphorus. Lime, rare 
in these different parts of animals and plants, exceeds magnesia 
in the other organs. It is the base which is most especially 
abundant in foliaceous parts. In the case of animals, it pre- 
dominates in the supporting bony connective and cartilaginous 
tissues. Let us note that in the brain, magnesium is four times 
more abundant than lime ; probably it exists there (in part at 
least) in the organic state, as I have shown it happen in the case 
of chlorophyll. 

Magnesium is then the specific metal of the most differentiated 
organs, and calcium that especially of the supporting tissues. We 
see this well in the case of vegetables ; 100 parts of ash contain, 
according to Boussingault : — 





K20. 


CaO. 


MgO. 


P205, 


Grain of wheat 


. 30-12 . 


. 3-0 . 


. 16-26 . 


. 48-30 


Straw „ 


. 16-17 . 


. 7-28 . 


. 4-70 . 


414 



h 



It is the same in the case of the animal, as the figures of the 
preceding table show. 

The excretion of lime is irregular and varies with alimentation. 
Being a secondary chemical means of support, this base may 
undergo variations independent of those of the protoplasma. 

327 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

it is not the same in the case of magnesia : belonging to the 
most differentiated parts of the cell, its excretion follows the 
variations of that of urea or nitrogen in the case of the animal. 
With regard to this, here are some figures due to Prof. Aloy : — 

Urine during 24 hours. CaO. MgO. Urea. 

Alimentation very much > 1-350 lit. .. 0-31 .. 0-27 .. 38 grms. 

animalized / 1-400 „ . . 0-30 . . 0-28 . . 42 „ 

Ordinary mixed diet . 1-350,, .. 0-27 .. 0-15 .. 27 „ 

Bunge had already given the following figures : — 

Urine during 24 hours. CaO. MgO. 

Meat alimentation . . 1-672 lit . . 0-328 grms. . . 0-294 grms. 
Bread „ . . 1-920 „ . . 0-339 „ . . 0-130 „ 

According to Mairet and Thorion, brain work greatly increases 
the excretion of these two bases. 

The calcium salts are necessary to the constitution of the 
blood as antihaemorrhagics, and to the heart as stimulating its 
contractions. The serum of Locke {Water, 1000, CaCl^=0-20 
grms.; KCl=0-20 grms.; CO^Na2H=0-20 grms.; Naa = 9-50 
grms. ; glucose = 1 grm.) injected tepid into the vessels, main- 
tains the beats of the heart, even when extracted from the 
chests of animals, and causes these beats to return when they 
have stopped for some time. This same serum, when decalci- 
fied, no longer acts. 

The experiments of Chossat on the aHmentation of pigeons, 
of Boussingault on that of pigs, of Kemmerich on that of man 
and the dog, show that in the case of young animals or adults 
that have been deprived of lime, this base is assimilated even 
when it comes in the form of mineral salts, phosphates and 
carbonates, by foods and drinking water.^ 

Chossat had already demonstrated in 1842 that pigeons fed 
on grains of corn carefully chosen only form fragile bones. 
They only form a good skeleton when they receive lime. Seeds 
in fact furnish a great deal of magnesia but httle Hme. Fowls 
in granitic countries accustom themselves to the phosphate or 
even sulphate of lime, and this base is found again in their bones 
in the form of phosphate or in the shell in the form of carbonate. 
Partly deprived of Hme, these animals become but slightly pro- 
Hfic. 

The mineral salts of these bases can then be assimilated ; 
nevertheless the assimilation is infinitely better if the Hme and 
magnesia are offered to the animal in an organic form, the metal 

1 A pig under experiment fixed in ninety-three days, according to 
J. Boussingault, 150 grms. of lime in its bones ; the analysis of its foods 
showed that they only contained a total of 98 grms. of lime. The differ- 
ence of 52 grms. came from the water taken in. 

328 



IRON, MANGANESE 

remaining so to speak latent in these combinations, as in bread, 
milk, and dry vegetables, etc.^ 

Introduced into the system in the intermediary form of salts 
with organic acids, lactates, malates, glycero -phosphates of lime 
or magnesia, these bases are only assimilated with greater 
difficulty and incompleteness. 

In an alimentation surcharged with calcium or magnesium, 
the excess of lime and magnesia is eliminated by the intestine, 
a small part passes by the kidney. 

Iron, Manganese. — Even in a state of absolute inanition we 
eliminate every day some iron, especially by the faeces. It 
comes in a large degree from the dissimilation of the red cor- 
puscles. This elimination increases in fever (Salkowski). Bous- 
singault,^ estimates the daily need in iron of the full grown man 
at 0-060;grms. or 0080 grms. 

This metal exists in an organic and latent state, or simply 
in the mineral state, in many foods. Here are some figures on 
this subject borrowed from Boussingault and Bunge : — 

Iron (in Milijgkammes) in 100 Fkesh Parts (Boussingault). 



Butcher's meat 
Pig's blood 
Veal . . . 
Flesh of fish . 
Hens' eggs 



37-5 


mg. 


63-4 


„ 


2-7 


,, 


7-5 


„ 


5-7 


»» 



White bread . 
White haricots 
Lentils 
Potatoes . 



Iron (in Milligrammes) in 100 Dry Parts. 



Haemoglobin 
Hsematogen 
Pig's blood 
Yolk of egg 
Cow's milk 
Human milk 
Wliite of egg 
Flovir of wheat 
Bran of Wheat 
Bread . 
Cabbages (inner 

leaves) . 
Cabbages (outer 

loaves) . 



. 340 mg. 
. 290 „ 
. 622 „ 
. 10-24 „ 
. 2-3 „ 
2-3-3-2 „ 
traces 
1-6 mg. 
. 8-8 „ 
. 1-3 „ 



yellow 
green 



4-5 
17 



Peas 

Potatoes . . . . 
Lentils . . . . 
White haricots 
Carrots , . . . 

Rye 

Wheat . . . . 

Rice 

Apples . . . . 
Cherries . . . . 
Strawberries 
Hazel nuts (shelled) 
Almonds (shelled) 
Figs 



4-8 mg. 
7-4 „ 
8-3 „ 
6-6 „ 



6-4 mg. 

6-4 „ 

9-5 „ 

8-3 „ 

8-6 „ 

4-9 „ 

5-5 „ 

1-2 „ 

13 „ 

10 „ 

9-0 „ 

4-3 „ 

4-9 „ 

3-7 „ 



Iron certainly exists in the greater part of these foods under 
a metallic-organic form united with the protoplasms, and com- 
parable with the haemoglobin of the blood and with the haematogen 
(see below). It is only necessary to remark that this richness 



1 M. Vaudin has shown that in milk, the phosphates are dissolved by 
means of the milk-sugar, and that the products of saccharification of 
starch dissolve several insoluble earthy salts {Bull. Soc. Chim. t. XXVll, 
p. 416). 

2 C. Rend. t. LXIV, p. 1,353. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

in iron, calculated here for foods in a dry state, is compensated 
by the large amount of water which constitutes them. Red 
wine is also very rich in iron, especially when it is new. 

It is an interesting fa/ct that mUk is the poorest of all the foods 
in this metal. The explanation of this fact, apparently para- 
doxical, is due to Bunge : he establishes the fact that during the 
foetal life, the embryo accumulates at the expense of the blood of 
the mother (and in the case of the bird borrowing from the yolk 
of the egg) an organic ferruginous substance, hcematogen, a true 
nucleo-albumin, which the young animal, at its birth, possesses 
stored up in its organs and particularly in the liver. This 
matter, very rich in iron, is comparable to hsemaglobin. It is 
consumed little by little by the young being, in proportion as its 
blood is formed.^ M. Lapicque, who has confirmed the observa- 
tions of Bunge, has found in 1,000 grms. of liver, cleansed of 
blood, the following quantities of iron: at eleven days 0-20 grms. ; 
at twenty-one days 0-14 grms. ; at three months 0-043 grms. ; 
at six months 0-040 grms. Kriiger has also shown that the 
foetal liver in the case of a cow is ten times richer in iron than 
of the full-grown animal. 

The haematogen of the yolk of egg contains, according to 
Bunge: C = 4219; H = 6-08; N = 14-7; S=0-55; P = 5-19; 
= 31-0. Fe=0-29. 

A substance of the same nature has been detected also by 
Stoklasa in the nucleus of vegetable cells.^ One kilogramme 
of dry peas has yielded 0-9 grms. of it. The Boletus edulis, a 
mushroom free from chlorophyll, contains 3-05 grms. of it per 
kilogramme. Stoklasa found 1-68 grms.of iron in 100 grms. of 
this substance. 

It is scarcely doubtful that vegetables also contain an analo- 
gous nucleoproteid of manganese. Manganese has been de- 
tected in the ash of many comestible vegetables ; in that of the 
cauliflower, asparagus, salad, grape, wheat and maize, etc.^ 

The absorption of mineral iron by the alimentary canal 
(salts of iron with mineral or organic acids) is to-day positively 
assured. In these conditions this iron passes more abundantly 
by the urine and may accumulate in the liver. But the greater 
part of that which we assimilate by foods, is in the form of 
ferruginous nucleoproteids or haemoglobins. 

It is only eliminated in extremely small proportions by the 
urine and the bile. 

Iron introduced by foods or medicaments, accelerates the 
intraorganic oxidations of carbohydrates just as much as of 
proteid bodies (Linnossier and Debierre ; Pokrowski). Boussin- 

1 M. Zalesky, Zeitsch. physiolog. Chem. t. X, p. 453. 

2 Bull. Soc. Chim. t. XV£I, p. 523. 

3 C. Rend. t. LXXV, p. 1,213. 



CHLORINE, FLUORINE, BROMINE, IODINE 



gault estimates a man's need of iron at 60 or 90 milligrammes 
per day. 

Let us now pass to the mineral acid principles that foods 
bring us. 

Chlorine, Fluorine, Bromine, Iodine. — These elements come 
to us partly (chlorine chiefly) from salt, the important part 
played by which we have previously shown. Fluorine comes to 
us especially from drinking waters, probably in the form of alka- 
line fluorides ; bromine and iodine appear to enter into the con- 
stitution of the bromic and iodic nucleoproteids, comparable to 
those that are met with in the thyroid gland or in the iodospongin. 
Iodine predominates especially in the thyroid gland {Baumann) : 
it contains 0-075 to 0-130 grms. per cent, of it. There is a far 
smaller proportion of it in the other organs ; thus, in the rabbit 
Gallard has found (C. Rend., t. CXXVIII, p. 1,120) :— 

Blood ...... 0-42 mg. per 100 grms. 



Heart and lungs 

Liver 

Kidney and spleen . 

Brain and cerebellum 



0-50 
13 
015 
110 



Bromine and iodine are given us chiefly by certain plants. 
Amongst the iodized vegetable aliments we may cite particularly 
the following, according to Dr. Bourcet ^ : — 



Asparagus .... 0-24 mg. Sorrel 

Garlic 0-21 „ Household bread 

Pine-apple .... 0-31 „ Green peas 

Carrots 0-134 „ Potatoes 

Mushrooms .... 0-172 ,, Leeks 

White-heart cabbage . 0-21 „ Pears 

Strawberries . . . 0-17 „ Grapes 

Flour of wheat . . . 0-007 „ Rice 

Flour of oats . . . 0-009 „ Lettuce 

Green haricots . . . 0-32 „ Tomatoes 

Dry white haricots . . 0-014 ,, Artichokes 

Fruits and foods very rich in starch contain very little iodine. 
Grapes and wine are more or less iodized according to the nature 
of the soils. 

According to the same author, amongst foods of animal origin, 
the most iodized are the following : — 

Iodine per kg. of 

fresh material. 

Eel 0-80 mg. 



Iodine per kg. of 
fresh material. 
0-12 mg. 
0-000 „ 
0-080 „ 
0-010 „ 
0-12 „ 
0-017 „ 
0-020-0-00 „ 
0-17 „ 
0-012 „ 
0-023 „ 
0-017 „ 



Anchovy 0-95 

Bream . . 
Crab . . . 
Grey shrimp . 
Roach 
Smoked herring 



1-25 
1-82 
5-91 
1-38 
1-57 



Oyster 
Lobster 
Whiting 
Fresh cod 
Fresh salmon 
Fresh tunny 
Trout 



Iodine per kg. of 
fresh material. 
1-37 mg. 
1-78 „ 
0-31 „ 
1-23 „ 
1-40 „ 
0-88 „ 
0-08 „ 



1 See the fine treatise of P. Bourcet, These de Paris, 1900, p. C5 {Tra- 
vaux de mon laboratoire). 

331 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Bromine always accompanies iodine and often increases or 
diminishes like it, without, however, being proportional to it. 

Sulphur, Phosphorus and Corresponding Acids. — Borrowed 
originally from the soil, especially in the form of sulphate, per- 
haps partly under the form of organic compounds (such as vol- 
canic soils, produce), sulphur comes to us chiefly through the 
vegetable and animal albuminoids. Oxidized in the system, 
about four-fifths of tliis element reappear in the form of sulphates 
in the urine, a fifth remains in the form of cystin, taurin and 
other sulphuretted bodies of an unknown nature. A little 
sulphur is thus throwTi out by the various excretions, and the 
epidermic products, such as the nails and hair. An adult man 
eliminates on the whole 1 grm. of sulphur per day. 

It has not been shown that the mineral sulphur of our foods 
can co-operate in the formation of the specific albuminoids of 
the tissues. 

Phosphorus and its compounds are indispensable to the fix- 
ing of albuminoid matter by animals and to their growth. It 
comes to us through foods under the two forms of phosphates 
and organic phosphorated compounds, lecithins, nucleins, nucleon 
or phosphocarnic acid, lecithalbumins, protagons, jecorins, inosic 
acid and other complex bodies in which it may sometimes be very 
abundant. 

In the foods of animal origin, the following quantities of 
organic phosphorus directly assimilable are found ^ (expressed 
in P-'0=):— 





Human Milk 
per litre. 


Cow's MUk 
per litre. 


Eggs 
(yolk only). 


For 100 grms. 
of Fresh Meat. 


Casein .... 
Vitellin .... 
Lecithin .... 


0-132grms. 
0-133 „ 


0-580 grms. 
0-091 „ 


0-059 grms. 
0-071 „ 


0-OGO grms. 
0-039 „ 


Nuclein .... 


0-171 „ 


0-087 „ 


— 


0-008 „ 


Other combinations 


— 





— 


0-128 „ 


insoluble in water 










Combinations soluble 


— 


— 


— 


0039 „ 


in water, not pre- 










cipitated by CaO 












0*456grms. 

(0-48 grms. 

of P205 


0"758 grms. 
(1-81 of 
P205 total 


01 30 grms. 

(No mineral 

phospho- 


0-274 grms. 

(0-450 grms. 

of P205 




total) 


per litre) 


rus) 


total) 



Brain, liver, thymus, kidney, milt, contain almost the whole 
of their phosphorus in the organic state. The flesh of the 
lobster contains as much as 2-20 per cent, of it. The yolk of 



1 Gilbert and Postemack, La medication phoaphoree, December 1903, p. 26. 



PHOSPHORUS 

egg, the milt of fish and the nervous tissue are rich in nueleins 
and consequently in phosphorus. Of all the foods of animal 
origin, the thymus (12 grms. per kg.) and then the cardiac muscle 
(10 grms.) are the richest in total phosphorus. The brain and 
the liver only containrespectively 8grms. andSgrms. per kg., the 
kidneys 4-5 grms. The foods richest in organic phosphorus are, in 
decreasing order, the thymus, brain, muscles, liver and kidneys 
(A. L. Percival, G. Rend. Acad. Sciences, Dec. 1, 1902. Travaux 
de mon laboratoire). 

It is chiefly, but not solely, in an organic form that phos- 
phorus is assimilated by the organism. It has been long 
known that the soluble phosphates, alkaline or earthy, are only 
assimilated with difficulty. Here are a few fresh experiments 
made on man in reference to this subject,^ by MM. Gilbert and 
Posternack, 

In a preliminary period, these scientific men submitted them- 
selves to a slightly insufficient nitrogenous alimentation and 
drew up the complete schedule of the elimination of nitrogen 
and phosphorus. They found : — 

N. P205. 

Introduced by foods in 5 days . . 89-8 grms. . . 12-15 grms. 

Found in the excretions : 

Urine 88-62 „ . . 9-86 „ 

Faeces 12-25 „ . . 3-75 „ 

Thus, in this period and with this alimentation, the organism 
insufficiently nourished lost in five days 11-07 grms. of nitrogen 
and 1-084 grms. of P^O^. During a second period and without 
changing anything in the alimentation of the subjects, an addi- 
tion was made of 1-2 grms. of phosphoric acid in the form of 
bicalcic phosphate, and 2-6 grms. in that of monocalcic phos- 
phate. The result was : — 

N. P20S. 

Introduced with the food in 5 days . 89-8 grms. . . 15-95 grms. 
Found in the excreta : 

N. P205. 

Urine . . 83-10 10-222i _ . „„ ,^ nn« 

Faeces . . 11-65 6-685 1 ^^-TS „ . . 16-907 „ 



Difference not retained by the system . -4-95 . . -0-957 

Thus, receiving 3-8 grms. of phosphoric acid (in mineral form) 
more than in the preliminary period, the organism only 
kept 0-127 grms. (1-084-0-097) of this acid in its tissues. In 
another experiment, 2-966 grms. of phosphoric acid taken in the 
form of glycerophosphate gave almost identical results (0-136 
grms. of P^O^ assimilated). On the other hand, when an addi- 
tion was made to the food allowance of 1 grm. taken in five 

^ La medication phoaphoree, p. 36, etc. 

333 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

days of phosphoric acid under the organic form of phytin (anhy- 
droxymethylene calcic dipliosphate), the system wliich lost 
during the preliminary period 0-927 grms. of P^O^ gained 0-606 
grms. of it (total gain : 1-543 grms.). 

Lecithins give much less favourable results. 

Whether it be that the phosphoric acid comes from the 
organic combinations in which it existed before, united with nitro- 
genous radicals as in the nucleins and lecithins ; or whether it 
comes from the oxidation of compounds where the phosphorus 
is still less saturated with oxygen than in the preceding 
products, in any case, there results from these decompositions or 
combustions, phosphoric acid which unites with the alkalies of 
the blood or of the tissues which it tends to acidify. The 
same formation undoubtedly takes place in the system as when 
we subject to rough oxidation in the muffle furnace, raised to a 
red heat, the phosphorated materials of muscular flesh or nerve 
tissue for example. Now the ash which these tissues leave, 
always contains a very notable excess of phosphoric acid in com- 
parison to that which would neutralize (in the state of PO*R^H) 
the alkalies and alkaline earths present in these products. Here 
is an example already quoted by Liebig : — 



Earthv Alkaline 

Percentage Composition of the Ash of : Phosohates Phosphates 



Free 

Phosphoric 

Acid. 



Horse flesh (Weber) 16-43% 80-96% 

Beef drained of blood (Keller) . . 26-26 48-06 

Yolk of egg (Poleck) | 34-70 27-25 



2-62% 
17-23 
36-74 



Phosphoric acid coming from the destruction of the phosphor- 
ated principles of our tissues, is afterwards neutralized by the 
fixed bases of the blood, and, as has been seen, but to a smaller 
extent, by the ammonia which has a tendency to form in the 
system. These are the alkaline and ammoniacal phosphates 
which go to alkalize the humours of the omnivora. As for the 
herbivora, the organic salts with potash bases which the veget- 
able foods bring to them in abundance, are transformed into 
carbonates by oxidation, and alkalize their plasmas. Let us 
remark in passing that phosphates exist in the urine of carnivora 
but are lacking in those of the herbivora, because in the plas- 
mas which are rich in lime and alkaline carbonates of these 
latter, these phosphates are carried off, or are unable to pass 
through the kidney. It follows that the alimentary phos- 
phorus excreted is found again in the case of the herbivora 
almost entirely in the faeces. 

We eliminate per day with the urine 1-70 grms. of phosphorus 
or 3-9 grms. of anhydride P^O^ of which 1 to 1-3 per cent, is 

334 



SILICON 

ncompletely oxidized. A great part of this phosphorus only 
passes through the system, entering it and leaving it in the form 
of phosphates. However, we have seen that in certain cases 
these latter may be directly assimilated in the form of alka- 
line or earthy alkaline phosphates. 

Arsenic. — Contrary to what had been admitted up to that 
time, in 1900 I established the fact that arsenic enters in a very 
small proportion into the constitution of the ectodermic tissues : 
the epiderm, hairs, nails, thyroid gland, brain and breast. 
There are some traces of it, but much more feeble, in a few other 
organs. Arsenic appears to play in the system, to a large degree, 
the role of phosphorus. Perhaps it forms part of very unstable 
substances comparable to ferments. 

Some vegetables contain very small quantities of arsenic 
(cabbage, radish and a few cereals). According to my researches, 
its most abundant alimentary source is salt, and especially the 
grey or coarse looking salt. 

Silicon. — We do not well understand the part which silicon 
plays in the organism. It is found most particularly in the 
connective tissue. We also find it in many vegetable foods 
and sometimes in such a quantity that it is impossible that it 
should not have been selected by certain cells and play there 
a definite part as yet unknown. We eliminate a great deal of 
it by the hair of the head and by epidermic desquamation. 

In the case of the herbivora, silicon is almost entirely elimin- 
ated by the faeces and hair in the form of silica. 



335 



XXX 

DRINKING WATER 

OF all the mineral substances which enter into alimentation, 
water is much the most important. It constitutes, as a 
matter of fact, the milieu where the inmost acts of cellular life 
are carried out. It forms about three-quarters of the weight of 
our organs ; it assures the nutritive changes, charges itself with 
the residue left by dissimilation and conveys them away. By the 
urine and cutaneous and pulmonary perspiration we lose every 
day 2,000 to 2,300 grms. of water when at rest, and 2,600 to 2,800 
if we are doing mechanical work.^ 

It is necessary then incessantly to restore water to the system, 
which could not brook a perceptible diminution of it. Foods 
furnish us with a part of it (about 60 per cent.), the remainder, 
nearly 900 grms. to 1 litre a day, comes to us in the form of drinks 
We can understand then the great importance of good drinking 
waters. 

Water is the only drink indispensable to man. Many people, 
the Mahometan Arabs, the Turks, Indians, Chinese and 
Japanese, only drink water or aqueous infusions. They 
none the less make prosperous races, ready for work or con- 
quest, whose long history would sufl&ce to show their great 
vitality. 

Water plays in our tissues the role of a neutral substratum in 
the midst of which take place all exchanges. The hydration of 
the protoplasms is modified unceasingly, but to a very small 
extent. 

1 According to Petenkofer and Voit, a vigorous workman produces 
every day the following quantities of water {Zeitach. f. Biolog. t. II, p. 480). 





In repose 


At work 


By the urine 


. 1,280 . 


. 1,200 


By respiration and perspiration 


830 . 


1,410 


By the faeces 


80 . . 


90 



According to C. Voit's calculations, the quantity of water formed by the 
oxidation of the hydrogen of aliments, represents about the sixth of the 
total quantity of water eUminated. 



SALTS IN DRINKING WATER 

The supplies of water cause the excreta to vary ; that of 
urea, among others, may increase in the case of man from 50 per 
cent, and more if he drinks a great deal ; but if he continues 
to drink abundantly, at the end of one or two days the excretion 
of urea returns to its normal rate. An excess of drinking water 
likewise appears slightly to augment the destruction of fats 
(Ortel). 

Water not only plays the part of appeasing thirst, it is also a 
food. It forms four-fifths of the weight of our tissues, and 
it is certain that the water in our drinks plays its part in the 
constitution and formation of them by its mineral salts, at 
least in certain conditions in an adult, and in every case in 
the course of the period of development of young animals. 

In fact, a man from his birth to eighteen or twenty years of 
age, is building up his skeleton. If we reckon that flesh bone 
contains 36 per cent, of Ume and that the mineral matters of an 
adult skeleton and of the soft tissues weigh about 3,000 grms., 
we see that a grown man has stored up at least 1,080 grms. of 
lime in eighteen years, that is to say, on an average 0150 grms. 
of lime per day. 

This is not all ; the child and the adolescent lose on an average, 
by their urine, in twenty-four hours, 0-310 grms. of lime, and 
they also throw off 0-440 grms. with their excreta.^ The daily 
needs in lime will be then : — 

CaO 
For the formation of the skeleton .... 0150 

Lost by the virine ....... 0-310 

Lost by the faeces ....... 0-440 



Total 0-900 

The adolescent receives daily by his average alimentation (see p. 11) 

CaO 

In 260 grms. of fresh meat 0-080 

In bread, 420 grms. 0-250 

In dry vegetables, 60 grms. . . . . . 0135 

In fresh vegetables, 250 grms. ..... 0*300 



Say 0-765 

He is then obliged to borrow from water the rest of the lime 
which is missing, say 0-135 grms. at least, per day. But in how 
many cases is the food allowance insufficient and the supplies 
of lime less than those indicated [here ! In consequence, how 
much more pressing still is the need to find in drinking water the 
necessary supplement of lime. 

In the course of the growing period of human life, water 
appears therefore to help in making up the sensible deficiency 

1 See p. 31 

337 z 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of the foods in lime, and probably also in some rarer mineral 
matters (iron, fluorine, silicon, arsenic, etc.). 

For the adult, the needs are lessened since he is no longer 
growing. We shall have in this case : — 

CaO. 
To repair the daily loss of lime by the urine . 0-310 grms. 

For the lime lost by faecal matters . . 0-600-0-650 „ 



Daily needs in lime .... 0-910 „ 

In this case the normal ahmentation (exclusive of water) pro- 
vides daily, as has already been shown, the requisite quantity 
of lime. But if it happens to be impoverished, the adult is 
also obliged to borrow his hme partly from his drinking water. 

The preceding calculations have been confirmed by direct 
experiment. J. B. Boussingault ^ took three young pigs of 
nearly the same weight and from the same htter. In the case 
of two of them which he sacrificed, he measured the lime of the 
bones. The third was fed for 93 days on potatoes, the lime of 
which had been previously measured. The animal was then 
slaughtered and in its bones 140 grms. more lime were found 
than in the skeleton of the two young pigs taken as a standard 
of comparison. The solid food taken in by the third pig con- 
taining only 98 grms. of lime, it was inevitable that the 42 grms. 
of excess of lime found in its bones had been furnished to the 
animal by drinking water. As a counter-proof this water was 
analysed. The lime corresponding to the total of that which 
had been drunk rose to 180 grms. which, added to the 90 grms. 
of lime of the solid foods, give the total weight of 278 grms. 
Now, if one adds to the weight of 140 grms. absorbed by the 
bones that of 116 grms. of lime contained in the total of the 
excrements and urine passed by the animal, we arrive at the 
weight of 256 grms. nearly approaching the 278 grms. of lime 
furnished by the total alimentation. 

The 22 grms. of this base which appear to be here missing 
from the complete balance-sheet, correspond in reality to the 
lime which had entered into the constitution of the soft parts 
of the animal ; muscles, glands, cerebral matter, integuments, 
etc., newly formed. 

This important experiment proves the direct utihzation of one 
of the sahne elements of drinking water, Ume, even when absorbed 
in mineral form. But it is impossible to think that if this is 
assimilated, it is not the same with the magnesia, soda, fluorides, 
silicates, etc., which exist in drinking waters, especially since, 
though sufficiently supphed in our soUd foods, these salts never- 
theless make a necessary part of our tissues. 

1 a Rend. Acad. Sc, t. XXIV. p. 486 an4 XXII, p. 356. 



I 



DRINKING WATERS 

These conclusions, however, have not been accepted by all 
hygienists. Some have remarked that whole populations only 
use for drinking waters those almost devoid of salts of lime. This 
opinion may be correct for a town, a mass of people living on very 
varied foods, and which gets an excess of salts of every kind, and in 
particular, salts of lime with its food ; it is not so in the contrary 
case. How many mountaineers drink water almost demineralized 
and are ricketty and goitrous ! How many populations exist 
on insufficient food ! How many poor people are obliged to 
content themselves with potatoes, vegetables and cereals often 
grown on silicious soils which do not bring them the quantity of 
indispensable salts ! How many workmen are reduced in our 
large towns to the strictly necessary ! For all these, drinking 
water must provide the necessarj'^ supplement of calcareous and 
magnesian salts with which their meagre daily regime does not 
provide them. 

We shall then conclude that drinking waters, in order to be 
good and to satisfy in every case the general needs, should be 
slightly saline and calcareous. 

Facts of observation corroborate this deduction. Everywhere 
people have always considered as the best waters for drinking 
those which spring from cretaceous and Jurassic soils and 
which contain between 0-100 grms. and 0-300 grms. of calcium 
bicarbonate, with some other salts of which we shall speak 
later. 

These preliminaries established, taking into account the 
double part which water should play as a drink and as mineral 
food, it is easy now for us to determine the character of good 
drinking waters. 

Character of Good Drinking Waters. — Every drinking water 
ought to he fresh, limpid, odourless, slightly saline, agreeable to 
the taste, aerated, light to the stomach, imputrescible, suitable for 
the principal domestic uses. 

Drinking waters are fresh if their temperature is lower than 
that of the surrounding atmosphere during the average seasons 
of the year (spring and autumn). At Paris, the average of 
spring is 14° ; the average of August, September and October 
is 15°. Water is fresh in the spring if it has from 9° to 13° ; in 
autumn if it varies between 10° and 14°. 

The soil, at the depth of 10 metres, no longer shares in the 
variations of the surrounding temperature. At Paris it remains 
all the year at 10-8°. The result is that the water brought into 
the towns by pipes placed at this depth will always be sufficiently 
fresh. 

At 5° or 6° water is cold, and not merely fresh ; its habitua 
use may prove deleterious. 

The constancy in temperature and freshness of water from 

339 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

a gushing spring is a good index of its purity. It indicates in 
general that this water does not receive any infiltrations from 
the surface soil. 

The qualities of drinking waters, were they only apparent, 
contribute to their favourable effects. Very clear waters please 
the stomach and stimulate the appetite. A limpid water is one 
which, below a depth of 25 to 30 centimetres or more, allows us to 
distinguish the sharp edges and the forms of immersed objects. 
A shghtly muddy water is always suspicious and ought to be 
filtered. The sediment which gives a yellowish tone to the 
river waters, generally contains more than 1 per cent, of 
organic or organized matters ; these are often of the nature of 
microbes. 

Nevertheless, hmpidity does not imply purity : a hmpid water 
may be very dangerous. 

Good drinking waters have no odour. The best, when they 
are kept in a closed vessel nearly full, do not contract any bad 
smell after having been kept two or three weeks. On the other 
hand, water which under these conditions gets particularly thick 
by allowing of the deposit of yellowish, greenish, or odoriferous 
matters, and consequently any water which becomes putrid, 
ought to be thrown away or only drunk after having been sub- 
jected to filtration, or boUed or preserved several months. 

Every drinkable water possesses its own distinct flavour 
quite noticeable to people of a delicate taste. This flavour should 
be fresh, without insipidity {organic matters), without sweetness 
{alumina salts), without taste of wet earth {alumina), non- 
selenitious {sulphate of lime) and without bitterness {magnesia).^ 

Insipidity without any special taste characterizes the absence 
of, or great poverty in, salts. This is the case with rain water, 
and with certain very pure waters coming from granites. 

As we already remarked, water should be aerated, light to the 
stomach. Good drinking waters contain per litre from 25 to 35 cc. 
of gas formed by about a third of carbonic acid, the rest being a 
mixture of oxygen and nitrogen, in the proportion, in volumes, of 
31 to 33 per cent, of the first, and of 69 to 67 of the second. The 
quantity of oxygen is less in spring waters at their starting 
point. 

Aerated waters are light to the stomach, non-aerated waters 
appear heavy ; not, as is very often said, because this want of 
air renders them indigestible, but because this absence of oxygen 
generally coincides with the presence in these waters of organic 

1 F. de Chaumont is sure that most people easily recognize the flavour 
of carbonate of lime in a quantity of 01 70 grms. per litre ; of the sulphate 
in 0-36 grms. ; of chloride of sodium in 1 grm. per litre. But it is one thing 
to distinguish such or such a salt, another thing to judge that a taste is 
pleasant or unpleasant. 

340 



DRINKING WATERS 



and especially organized matters which are in process of decom- 
position by oxidation, and are consequently removing from the 
water the oxygen which they absorb and cause to disappear. 
These organic or organized matters, of a kind always suspicious, 
are unpleasant to the stomach which digests them with difficulty ; 
hence, as a consequence, arise both the want of aeration, the 
sensation of heaviness of these insipid and unpleasant waters. 
The heaviness is not due in reahty to the disappearance of the 
oxygen, because water boiled and cooked is not heavy to the 
stomach if it is of good quahty perceptibly free from organic 
matters. 

Here is, arranged almost in order of decreasing value, a certain 
number of waters with their contents in dissolved gas. It will 
be seen that their richness in oxygen is not proportional to their 
drinkableness. 

Gases Contained in some Drinkable Waters of Different Values 



Spring of Due (Jurassic soils, neighbour- 
hood of Narbonne) 

Spring of Saint-Pierre (Jurassic soils, 
neighbourhood of Narbonne) 

Rhine at Strasbourg 

Doubs at Besan^on 

Garonne at Toulouse 

Loire at Nantes (opposite the Chateau) . 

Seine at Bercy 

Well, near the Saint-Honor^ market-place 
at Paris 






N 


C02 


6-2 


15-4 


2-0 


5-3 


15-3 


91 


7-4 


15-9 


7-6 


9-5 


18-2 


17-8 


7-9 


15-7 


17-0 


5-5 


11-4 


0-5 


3-9 


12-0 


16-2 


1-4 


20-7 


1-0 



Total 

volume of 

gas per 

litre. 



23-6 

29-7 

30-9 
45-5 
40-6 
17-5 
32- 1 
26-2 



Although less rich in oxygen than the waters of the Rhone or 
of the Garonne, the two first waters are better and lighter than 
the river waters. We see that the oxygen diminishes in the 
worst of all, in the water of the Paris well. 

The suitability of water for the chief domestic purposes, 
particularly for washing with soap and cooking vegetables, is a 
very good test of its drinkableness. A water which, when hot, 
hardens herbaceous foods by forming with the earthy bases and 
the legumin of these foods an insoluble compound, is a water 
too heavily charged with salts of lime or magnesia. It is hard, 
harsh, selenitic. These waters, poured into a limpid solution of 
soap, form abundant insoluble clots, and cannot any longer be 
utilized for soaping. Most frequently they are not very agree- 
able to drink, with the exception of those which, like Saint Galmier 
for example, are charged with an excess of carbonic acid. StiU 
it does not suit everybody. 

341 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



The waters which do not lend themselves to domestic purposes 
cannot be considered as capable of utilization in all cases by the 
populations to which they are distributed. A water too rich in 
iron, for example, is at once unsuitable for laundry purposes, for 
dyeing, for paper making, etc. ; it leaves on the linen spots of iron 
mould and changes the colours. Too calcareous waters hinder 
the work of brewers and especially of dyers ; they form an 
incrustation on steam engines, etc. 

The Mineral Matters of Drinking Waters. — ^We have already 
established (p. 337) the fact that good drinkable waters are and 
ought to be mineralized, and that, according to the way in which 
we feed, they supply us daily with from 0-050 grms. to 0-150 
grms. of lime corresponding to 0-090 grms. or 0-250 grms. of 
calcium carbonate, on an average 0-170 grms. 

If, on the other hand, reasoning a posteriori, we examine the 
composition of the waters universally reputed the best, we see 
that the sum of their mineralizing elements varies between 0-150 
grms. and 0-300 grms. per litre and that about the half of this 
weight is due to carbonate of lime. The following figures 
indicate this : — 





Fixed Residue 
per litre. 


Co3Ca per litre. 


Water of the Rhine (before Strasbourg) . 
„ „ Seine (above Paris) 
„ ,, Rhone (Geneva) .... 

„ „ Vanne (Paris) 

„ „ Dhuis (Paris) 

„ ,, spring of Neuville (near Lyons) 
„ ,, Fontfroide (Narbonne) 


0-232 

0-224 

0-182 

0-264 ' 

0-312 

0-230 

0-212 


0-135 
0-165 
0-079 
0-209 
0-193 
0-201 
0-090 



We see that the average of calcium carbonate contained in good 
drinkable waters approximates singularly closely to the quantity 
which we have shown to be daily necessary. Reasoning in the 
same way as regards the other salts of drinkable waters, we shall 
allow that those may be considered as useful, which are met with 
in drinking waters, reputed the best, but on this double condition : 
1st, that they are found there constantly ; 2nd, that these salts 
also constitute an integral part of our tissues. 

We shall conclude then finally that the best drinking waters are 
those which, almost freed from organic matters, and particu- 
larly from living germs and microbes, contain from 0-150 
grms. to 0-350 grms. of mineral matters per litre. Experience 
has shown that in the best spring or river waters these mineral 
matters are generally composed, per litre, of 0050 grms. to 0-250 
grms. of bicarbonate of lime with 0-005 grms. to 0015 grms. of 
alkaline chlorides ; 0-003 grms. to 0-028 grms. of alkaline and 
earthy sulphates, 0015 to 0050 grms. of silica, 1 to 2 milligrms. 

342 



DRINKING WATERS 

of ferrous carbonate and finally a trace only of alumina, 
fluorides and phosphates. 

A good drinking water does not generally leave beyond 0-500 
grms. of fixed residue and does not contain more than 0-060 
grms. of sulphuric acid, and 0-010 grms. of chlorine per litre. 

We have recognized already the drawbacks of waters too rich 
in calcium, in earthy salts, in alkaline chlorides, in salts of 
magnesia or alumina, in earthy sulphates, etc. These last salts 
have the inconvenience of being reduced by contact with many 
organic matters which transform them into sulphurets of a dis- 
agreeable taste. On the other hand, waters containing too 
much magnesia are bitter and sometimes not too healthy by 
reason of microbes which can thrive in them. 

Mineral nitrates to the extent of 0-005 grms. to 0060 grms. 
per litre of water are not by themselves of any disadvantage. 
The waters of lakes, those which rise from primitive soils, from 
old sandstone, most frequently contain some of them. The 
best drinking waters from the Jurassic, cretaceous and triassic 
springs can dissolve more than 50 milligrms. of nitrates per 
litre, when the much more impure waters of the Seine, of the 
Marne and of the Oise contain, on an average, only 6 milligrms. 
per litre. But nitrates testify no less to the initial contamination 
of waters by nitrogenous organic matters later oxidized by nitrous 
and nitric ferments. The most important consideration is that 
these putrescible matters should have entirely disappeared, and 
that one should not find in drinking waters the products of the 
incomplete destruction of organic substances, and especially salts 
of ammonia whicli, without being dangerous in themselves, are 
none the less indications of an imperfect purification of waters 
originally polluted. 

The presence in drinking waters of salts of lead is always very 
dangerous. The smallest quantities of this metal ought to 
ensure their rejection. Traces of copper or arsenic would not 
present the same drawbacks. 



343 



XXXI 

DRESTKING WATERS OF DIFFERENT ORIGINS 

CONSIDERED from the point of view of their drinkableness 
and origin, drinking waters can be classified into running 
ivaters and stagnant waters. 

In the first class we include : (a) Main ivater and distilled water ; 
(h) Spring water and that of artesian wells ; (c) River and stream 
water ; (d) Mountain water (water from snows, torrents and lakes). 

In the class of stagnant waters we shall place : (e) The ivater of 
wells, ponds and marshes. These are generally mediocre waters. 

Rain Water. — Rain water does not make a good table water. 
If collected directly, it only contains some traces of nitrates, 
sulphates, chlorides of ammonia and soda and a little dissolved 
air ; but the rain catches the dust of the air and with it innum- 
erable microbes. If collected on roofs and kept in a cistern, being 
charged with the castings of birds, germs of moulds and bacteria, 
this water is putrescible and often dangerous to drink, at least 
if it has not remained some months in a cistern where it gets 
purified. Moreover, it is liable to come in contact with the lead 
and zinc of the covers and metallic solders of the roofs, to attack 
them and to hold a little of these metals, etc. Rain water then 
should be most frequently regarded with suspicion. Nevertheless 
many towns, Venice, Cadiz, Vanne, Cette, Neubourg, a great part 
of Constantinople, etc., only drink rain water, but rain water 
which has been kept in covered cisterns, sunk into the ground, 
where the water has time to purify whilst sheltered from the dust 
and light. 

Distilled Water. — Distilled water, to-day in current use on 
long distance ships, is procured generally from the distillation of 
sea-water. It can be drunk without inconvenience provided that 
it has been distilled in an apparatus of copper plated with pure 
tin^ and kept in reservoirs of wood, or sheet iron galvanized with 
zinc free of lead. Waters deprived of all nauseous tastes are 
obtained by distilling them in the presence of a slight excess of 
permanganate of potash or lime, to oxidize the organic matter. 

Spring Waters. — Spring waters, especially those which come 
from deep levels, the temperature of which is nearly invariable all 

1 It should not contain more than three to five ten- thousandths of lead. 

344 



SPRING WATERS 

the year, and lower at least by some tenths of a degree than the 
average annual temperature of the air in the locality, are the best 
drinking waters. 

Springs which rise from granite soils leave only a small residue 
(0007 grms. to 0030 grms.) of salts per litre. They are usually 
good waters but poor in mineral substances. 

It is from the silurian, devonian, Jurassic and cretacean soils 
that the best drinking waters come ; they are not however all 
irreproachable. These waters leave, per litre, from 0150 to 
0500 grms. of fixed residue (corresponding to 10 to 20 French 
hydrotimetric degrees) half of which residue is formed of calcium 
bicarbonate. Their mineral elements are generally in good 
proportions. Those whose temperatures vary less than 1° from 
summer to winter, have also a very nearly constant composition 
and are the purest. But in soils with much cracked strata, such 
as the cretaceous and overlying series (myocene and pliocene, 
etc.), it is rarely that spring waters are entirely free from organic 
matters and even from microbes originating from arable soil. 

Here is a table of the composition of some types of spring waters : 



Analyses op Different Types 


OF Good Spbing 


Waters. 1^ 










Vanne at 


Marly- 






Saint- 


Chalet du 


Font- 


Mont- 


les- 


Saint- 




Martial 


Compas 


froide 


souris 


Valen- 


Clement 




(Granite). 


(Granite). 


(Jurassic). 


(Cre- 
taceous). 


ciennes 
(Chalk). 


(Pliocene). 




grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 


Carbonate of lime 


0-0002 


0-012 


0-088 ^ 




0-254 


0-275 


„ magnesia 


— 


— 


0-014 


0-113 


0-018 


0-032 


„ protoxide 


0-0002 


— 


0-00 1 ) 




trace 


0-002 


of iron 














Chloride of sodium . 


0-0018 


— 


0-052 


0-008 


0-018 


0-023 


„ calcium . 


— 


0-007 


— 


— 


— 


— 


„ magnesium 


0-0054 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Sulphate of potassium 


— 


— 


0-0006 "1 




0-0015 


0-002 


„ soda . 


— 


— 


0-0058 




— 


— 


„ lime . 


0-0013 


— 


0-036 


0-136 


0-004 


0-012 


Silicate of lime 


— 


— 


0-007 


— 


— 


Alkaline silicates . 


0-0119 


— 


— 




— 


— 


Silica 


0-0030 


traces 


— 




0-011 


— 


Phosphoric acid and 














alumina 


0-00004 


— 


0-009 


— 


trace 


— 


Iodides, bromides \ 
Nitric acid . . J 


trace 


— 


trace 


trace 


— 


— 


— 


trace 


0-0025 


0-029 


— 


Organic matters . 


trace 


— 


0-0005 


0-004 


0-018 


— 


Total residue per litre 


0-0238 


0-019 


0-214 


0-263 


0-349 


0-346 



1 Water of Saint Martial. — From granite in the neighbourhood of Lim- 
oges. Good drinking water entirely free from nitrates and organic matters . 
Analysed by the author. 

Water from the Chalet du Compas. — Greatly esteemed, springs from a 

345 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

As long as the surface of the ground remains turfed or covered 
with wood, infiltrated waters and the springs which come from 
them, vary little. On the other hand their composition becomes 
variable, at least in the case of cretaceous and overlying soils if 
the state of vegetation, clearing of woods and cultivation change. 

When the composition and temperature of the waters of a spring 
remain constant, summer and winter, it is because it does not 
receive, as a rule, any admixture of rain-water. In this case 
contaminations of superficial origin are much less to be feared. 
The existence in spring waters of ammoniacal salts, the increase 
of sulphates, a rise in the number of microbes are the most sure 
signs of these temporary pollutions. 

Waters which come from gypsous soils containing salts, anthra- 
cite, pyrites or which are too rich in mould, those which come from 
the most modern quaternary soils, those whose temperature and 
composition are variable and those which contain ammoniacal 
salts, are bad spring waters. 

Waters from Artesian Wells. — Waters from artesian wells are, 
properly speaking, waters from artificial springs. In the same 
place they may sometimes differ in composition according to the 
depth of the bed which furnishes them. Indeed, if these beds 
are much inclined, the composition of the water of two wells very 
near together may be quite different. This is the case in the wells 
of Robert and Bellonet in the citadel of Calais. The water of the 
first gives 251 grms. of fixed residue per litre, that of the second 
only 058 grms. 

River or Stream Waters. — River or stream waters have for their 
origin, on the one hand, spring waters, on the other the streams 
from mountain rains, the melting of ice and snow. Their com- 
position varies therefore in their course and changes perceptibly 
with the seasons, rains, dryness, tillages crossed, etc. Thus the 
fixed residue of the water of the Rhone falls from 0'18 grms. to 

010 grms. per litre when the snow melts. 

Rains, by washing the arable soil and that of towns, afterwards 
pollute the water of rivers where they fiow away. They are 
charged, in the fields and cities, with matters undergoing decom- 

primary rock at the foot of the great Chamier (Isere). Analysed by 
Niepce. 

Water of Fontfroide. — Excellent drinking water from the Jurassic soils 
in the neighbourhood of Narbonne. Analysed by the author. 

Water of Vanne, greatly esteemed, excellent taste, from cretaceous soils. 

11 milligrms. of oxygen dissolved in 100 cc. CaO = 112 milligrms. (Ana- 
lysis of the water from the reservoir of the Vanne) (Laboratory at JVIont- 
souris). 

Water of Marly-les-Valenciennes. — Water very limpid, agreeable flavour, 
good water coming from chalky soils. 

Water of Saint-Clement. — Reputed excellent. It rises in the neighbour- 
hood of Montpelier from pliocene soil (Analysed by Rousset). 



RIVER OR STREAM WATERS 

position and with innumerable germs. They become enriched with 
sulphates, phosphates, nitrates, chlorides, ammoniacal salts, 
organic matters and carbonic acid, and lose part of their oxygen. 
To all these causes of inferiority of river waters are added those 
which result from the variations in the water levels, from overflows 
and muds which they carry away, from their flow in the open air 
which gives its dust to them, and from the enormous variations 
in temperature and supply of the waters at the different seasons. 
This shows that in almost any case it would be unwise for a big 
town to obtain its drinking water directly from the river which 
runs through it. 

After being polluted in the towns, the action upon the water of 
streams by air and light, eliminates in a long course the most 
numerous and dangerous microbes ; the water is aerated little by 
little and becomes again, fairly rapidly, good to drink. During 
the passage of the Seine through Paris, the number of microbes 
which had risen per cubic centimetre from 11,500 at Melun, before 
the great city, to 2,512,000 after having received the drains of Paris 
at Saint Denis, falls at Mantes, at the end of only 80 kilometres of 
its course, to 277,500 (Miquel). The water of the Wiipper, near 
Berlin, repulsive with filth at Elberfeld, becomes limpid again at 
Opluden, some miles farther on. 

The oxygenation of the water is besides in inverse ratio to its 
pollution. Here are some figures due to Milter ; they relate to the 
water of the Thames above and below London : — 



C02 



Proportion 



O 



Kingston 
Hammersmith 
Greenwich 
Erith . . 



30-3 

55-60 
57-0 



7-4 
5-1 
0-25 
1-8 



15-0 
15-1 
14-5 
15-5 



2 

3-7 

60 





932 


cc 




805 






6-99 






105 






6 12 






8-96 





For the Seine the dissolved oxygen has been found, per litre 
(Gerardin) : — 

At Corbeil, above Paris 

At its entrance into Paris 

At Auteuil, above the main drain . 

At Epinay, below the main drain . 

At the bridge of Poissy (about 60 kilom.) 

At Mantes (about 80 kilom.) 

In these waters, defiled by the debris of towns, ammonium may 
be produced, and, in presence of the carbonic gas of the air, cause 
the lime to partly disappear, precipitating it in the form of 
insoluble carbonate, whilst sulphuretted hydrogen and putrid 
odours are developed. However, after a course of 50 to 80 
kilometres, these waters again become drinkable. 

347 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Here are, as examples, some analyses of the waters of rivers due 
to M. Ch. Ste-Cl. Deville :— 



Composition of the 


Watek of Different Rivers (per litre) 




Loire 

(above 

Orleans). 


Garonne 
(above 
Tou- 
louse). 


Rh6ne 

at 
Geneva 
(above 

the 
Arve). 


Seine 
Bercy 
(begin- 
ning of 
Paris). 


Rhine 
Stras- 
bourg 
(May). 


Danube 

(above 
Vienna). 


Calcium carbonate . 

Magnesium „ . . 

Soda ,, 

Carbonate of manganese 

Chloride of soda 

Sulphate of potassium . 
„ soda 
„ calcium 
,, magnesium 

Nitrates 

Silicic acid .... 

Alumin 

Peroxide of iron . 


grms. 
0-048 
0-006 
0-014 

0-0048 

0-0034 

? 
0-042 
0-0071 
0-0055 


grms. 

0-064 

0-003 

0-006 

0-003 

0-0032 

0-0076 

0-0053 

0-0085 
0-0031 


grms. 
0-079 
0-005 

0-0017 

0-0074 
0-0466 
0-0063 
0-0085 
0-0238 
0-0039 


grms. 
0-166 
0-003 

0-0123 
0-0050 

0-0269 

0-0146 
0-0508 
0-0005 
0-0025 


grms. 
0-136 
0-005 

0-0020 

0-0135 
0-0147 

1 
0-002 
0-0025 \ 
0-0058 / 


grms. 
0-080 
0-013 

0-0033 

0-0164 

0-002 
0-002 


Dry residue .... 


0-1346 


0-1367 


0-1820 


0-2544 


0-2318 


0-1414 



Waters of Canals, Ditches and Drains. — Canal waters are gene- 
rally borrowed from rivers or come, like the Canal du Midi, from 
the gather of brooks and mountain torrents. By reason of their 
smaller supply and origin, these waters share in all the drawbacks 
of those of streams and rivers. Even more than the latter, they 
are liable to be polluted by industrial refuse, washing of linen, 
and drain waters. 

The waters of ditches, channels and drains, formed by waters 
which have passed over arable soil, are always very bad drinking 
waters. 

Waters from Rain, Snow, Lakes and Marshes. — Mountain waters 
have their origin in the rains which stream down over the soil 
and the waters which are formed by the melting of the ice and 
snows. 

The rains of high regions differ from those of the plains in the 
small proportion of microscopic organisms that they bring down. 
The air at 2,800 metres only contains 6 to 10 bacteria per cubic 
metre instead of 480 in the plain ; but life is everywhere, even at 
these altitudes, and organic detritus is met with in these waters as 
soon as they have flowed over the soil. Snow catches, whilst 
falling, all the small bodies floating in mountain air. Thus the 
microbes are removed on the surface of the glaciers, whilst 
the deepest bed melts and the mass of ice, by slipping over the 
rock and wearing it, forms the muddy torrent which emerges from 

348 



WELL WATERS 

it at the base of the valley. In studying the melted waters of the 
large glacier of Jostedalsbru in Norway, Schmelck found, per 
cubic centimetre at 1,800 metres, only 2 living microbes ; in the 
water of a stream which came from it, 9 to 15, and at 5 kilometres 
beyond that, 170 to 200 microbes per cubic centimetre of water. 
The most abundant of these organisms was the bacillus flu- 
orescens liquefaciens. The majority of the other microbes on the 
surface had been killed by the prolonged action of cold. 

Mountain torrents have then for origin, rain water and that 
which comes from the melting of glaciers. These waters, very poor 
at the beginning in saline materials, are enriched at the expense of 
the rocks over which they pass, in silicates, sulphates of lime, mag- 
nesia, chlorides, organic materials and gas from the air, and go to 
form lower down rivers or lakes. 

Thus formed the water of lakes rapidly becomes clear by settle- 
ment pit becomes limpid, if not always healthy to drink, having 
very often received excreta from flocks living on the mountain. 
But these waters may become good when they become running. 
Chicago takes its drinking water from Lake Michigan, Boston from 
Lake Cochituata and Edinboro' from Lake Katrine. The waters 
of Lake Geneva, through Vhich runs the Rhone, are sufficiently 
pure. 

It is not so in the so-called lakes of the plains, such as that of 
GrandHeu, in Loire-Inferieure, basins without perceptible flow 
which are ponds or marshes rather than real lakes. 

Those ponds which receive and retain rain water in the most 
sloping parts of the large plateaux, unfortunately form the only 
drinking water of large tracts of country — Sologne, Bresse, and 
the country of Caux in France for example. These are nearly 
always very bad waters. Innumerable bacteria multiply in them, 
absorb their oxygen, reduce their sulphates and may even make 
these waters ammoniacal. The elevation of temperature helping, 
a crowd of animalculse, larv?e, etc., live there, die and putrefy 
there, communicating to them that nauseous taste of marshy 
waters that one cannot drink without disgust, and often without 
danger, unless previously boiled. 

Well Waters. — These waters are of two kinds : sometimes the 
wells are dug near dwellings ; real upright drains, they gather the 
filtrations of the surrounding soil. These are bad or dangerous 
waters. Sometimes the wells are in the open country ; they pene- 
trate through the permeable beds as far as the clayey layers on 
which rests the sheet of subterranean water which runs through the 
subsoil. As a kind of artificial spring, these wells can furnish good 
drinking waters. However, the sheet of water being near the 
surface of the earth, they are liable to all the objections raised 
earlier against waters from too superficial springs. 
Wells dug in the middle of towns most often only provide danger- 

349 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

ous waters, such as the wells of Rodiz, Laon, Rheirris, real sources 
of goitre, and the water of the wells of Munich, Paris, etc., which 
may transmit typhoid fever. In these waters the weight of 
nitrates sometimes exceeds 1 grm. per litre and that of dissolved 
animal matters, originating from the ejections of man and animals, 
may rise to O'lO grms. Living micro-organisms multiply there 
owing to the incessant renewal of organic matter, to ammoniacal 
salts and nitrates. 

Table Mineral Waters — Natural or Artificial Ice. — Amongst the 
mineral waters which are drunk as table waters, we shall quote in 
the case of France : Saint-Galmier, Morny-Chateauneuf , Condillac, 
Saint-Pardoux, Vernet (Ardeche), Chateldon, etc. ; of West- 
phalia, Pyrmont ; of Alsace, Soultzmatt ; of Nassau, Seltzer, etc. 
These waters are sometimes acidulous and calcareous, sometimes 
acidulous and alkaline with a predominance of free carbonic acid. 
Very poor in organic matters, piquant to the taste, they are 
usually agreeable and facilitate digestion. But the habitual use of 
them should not be recommended, whether because the continued 
action of gaseous carbonic acid on the stomach is hurtful, or 
because the superabundant salts of lime fatigue the kidneys and 
bring on oxalic or phosphatic gravel in persons predisposed that 
way. With these natural gaseous waters, we must place waters 
artificially charged with carbonic acid, called artificial seltzer 
water. They have various disadvantages ; the chief is that they are 
very often made with river and well waters which have not been 
filtered, and are in consequence dangerous. They may also con- 
tain traces of salts of lead in suspension, as I have proved. This 
drawback has been much diminished since the new method of 
manufacture consisting in the injection of the carbonic acid into 
the syphons themselves. But this latter system has the disad- 
vantage of allowing the bottles, which pass from hand to hand 
without other cleansing, to be washed only under great difficulties. 
Iced water is much sought after, especially in the summer. 
Unfortunately the ice itself is generally introduced into the glass. 
Now, whether natural or artificial, the ice employed in drinking is 
not always healthy. It contains, more or less, the impurities of 
the waters which have produced it. Some beautiful natural ice 
sold by a Parisian company, ice originating from the ponds of 
Briche, of the Bois de Boulogne and of Chaville near Paris, gave 
the following results ^ : a litre of water melted from this ice ^ 
evaporated under shelter from the dust of the air, left 0*125 grms. 
of mineral salts. This residue was found to be nitrogenous, it set 
free ammonia when treated with alkaline carbonates, it gave the 
characteristic reactions of nitrous and nitric acids. Under the 

1 A. Biehe: " Rapport au conseil d'hygiene etde salubrite de la Seine." 

2 The melting of large blocks of very transparent ice, previously washed 
pn their surface with distilled water. 

350 



ICE WATER 

microscope it was observed to contain a large quantity of microbes 
and vibrios. 

Following a grave epidemic of diarrhoea, James Carder, 
examining in 1875 the ice of Rye Beach, near New York, seeing the 
amount of microbes in it, brought about the prohibition of the use 
of ice from Lake Onondaga for alimentary purposes. Frankel and 
Prudden in the ice of river and pond waters, also noticed several 
thousands of bacteria per cubic centimetre. Lastly, H. Anton 
and Rieder estabHshed in 1888 the fact, that many saprogenetic or 
pathogenetic microbes can be kept for a very long time in ice with- 
out losing their vitality or their virulence {InstU. imp. d'hygiene, 
Berlin 1888). These experiments have been carried out again and 
confirmed in Paris by MM. Chantemesse and Widal. 

Ice directly consumed on our tables should thus only be con- 
sidered healthy if it comes from boiled, or at least very carefully 
filtered water. 



351 



XXXII 

DISEASES ATTRIBUTABLE TO DRINKING WATERS — PRESERVATION 
AND PURIFICATION OF DRINKING WATERS 

TO conclude the study of the various drinking waters, we must 
ask if any diseases exist and are transmissible by drinking 
water ; if there are any relations between the state of deficient 
health or the endemic diseases which affect certain populations, 
and the nature of the waters which they drink. 

We shall afterwards treat of the purification of unwholesome 
waters. 

Diseases Attributable to Drinking Waters. 

Rickets, scrofula and tuberculosis perhaps appear to proceed 
from the invasion of the individual by organisms of decay as 
soon as the tissues are no longer protected by assimilation of 
sufficient lime, magnesia, iodine and arsenic, an assimilation 
which good drinking waters help to achieve. In spite of their 
small proportions the constant presence of certain elements of 
which we find traces in our organs, arsenic, bromine, iodine, 
copper and manganese in particular, leads one to believe that 
these elements play an indispensable part, and that in conse- 
quence, the small quantity which water furnishes of them cannot 
be neglected. Nevertheless, the importance of infinitesimal 
quantities (2 ^„th of a mgr. per litre) of iodine for example, in the 
waters of healthy countries, does not appear to have been suffi- 
ciently demonstrated even when this non-metal disappears totally 
as it seems to do from the waters of countries where goitre 
prevails (Chatin). 

When drinking waters are too rich in sulphates, bi-carbonate 
of lime, or in alumina salts, they get an earthy flavour which 
upsets the stomach. Sulphates entering in abundance into the 
alimentary canal may there be partly reduced to the state of 
sulphides and of sulphurets, salts which are far from being 
harmless, even in a small quantity. 

Since Hippocrates, physicians have charged waters which 
are too chalky with favouring the formation of urinary 
deposits. People suffering from calculus are, it appears, rela- 
tively numerous in the suburb of Avignon, called The Isle of 
Vaucluse, where they drink the very chalky water from the 

352 



DISEASES ATTRIBUTABLE TO DRINKING WATERS 

fountain of that name, as well as in the country which re- 
ceives the same waters, even when such cases are said to be 
rare in the rest of the town and country. In the same way, 
since the substitution of mountain waters for the too chalky 
waters of the Clyde, vesical calculi, formerly very frequent in 
Glasgow, have progressively diminished. The same facts are said 
to have been noted at Paisley, Bolton and other English towns. 

The presence of nitrates in waters, even to the amount of 
0-350 grms. per litre would not be alone too injurious, if these 
salts were not the sign of original pollution of these waters by 
nitrogenous ejections. 

Of all the dangerous mineral substances that one may acciden- 
tally find in drinking water, lead is the most formidable. It 
may be introduced by pipes, reservoirs, solder and the metallic 
roofs of our dwellings. Natural waters charged with sulphates 
and carbonates do not attack lead much, but rain water, dis- 
tilled water and water which contains chlorides, nitrates and 
certain organic matters dissolve it much better. 

In this respect here are some interesting experiments by P. 
Coulier. He plunged sheets of lead with a surface of 16 square 
decimetres in some glass receivers each containing 2,400 cc. of 
water half saturated with each of the salts indicated below. 
The evaporated water was replaced from time to time by 
its volume of distilled water. He observed that the sheets 
were attacked slowly and that they had undergone losses and 
alterations to the extent indicated in the following table :— 





Loss of weight in 






milligrams. 


Observations made after 




after 


after 


after 


8 years. 




64 days. 


5 years. 


8 years. 




Distilled water 


1-8 


60-1 


58-9 


Purple tint. The sheet is 
reduced to fragments. 


Water of the Dhuis . 


0-50 


0-60 


0-70 


Sheet is coloured brown 
with fern-shaped designs. 


Water of the Seine . 


0-15 


0-70 


0-16 


Sheet eroded in parts. 


Distilled water and 


0-35 


0-10 


1-05 


Sheet intact. Uniform 


carbonate of lime 








brown tint. 


Distilled water and 


0-30 


0-80 


0-80 


The sheet has assumed a 


sulphate of lime 








whitish tint. 


Distilled water and salt 


100 12-40 


13-9 


Brown tint, sheet perforated 








where bent. 



We see, therefore, that pure waters are really those which 
attack lead best. 

The best known example of lead poisoning through drinking 
water containing lead is that which in 1853 ^ attacked the 

1 Gueneau de Mussy (Ann. d' hygiene et de mid. legale, 1853, t. IV, p. 
318). 

353 A A 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Orleans family at Claremont. The spring water which before 
reaching the castle had passed through leaden reservoirs and 
conduits contained, according to the analysis of W. Hofmann, 
4 millgrms. of this metal per litre. Thirty -four persons out of 
100 were attacked. The children resisted much better than the 
adults. 

I have myseK made numerous researches into the conditions 
which introduce lead into our drinking waters.^ 

By remaining some days or some hours in contact with new 
lead pipes, spring waters or river waters become charged with 
about half a milligrm. and more of lead per litre. In old pipes, even 
when covered on the interior with a calcareous crust, they still 
take up a little lead partially dissolved, partially in suspension. 
These lead incrustations of the pipes are detached on the least 
effort. They may contain as much as 50 or 75 percent, of lead. 

The simple flowing through the leaden branch pipes which pass 
from the streets into dwellings does not introduce into these 
waters any ponderable quantity of this metal. But for the 
general distribution of the waters of a town, particularly when 
they have little lime, we must give up leaden pipes and have 
recourse to earthenware, to iron tubes or to lead sheathed 
with pure tin. 

The Influence of Organic Matters of Drinking Waters. — The 
ordinary organic substances of drinkable waters, matters called 
humic, unless they are very abundant, need not be feared. Waters 
which are contaminated with them are sometimes disagreeable 
to drink, they have a taste of mud, but they are not particularly 
dangerous. We only know that the yellowish water of rivers 
and the waters of muddy soils are slightly laxative. This is 
very often their only disadvantage. 

Certain drinking waters seen in mass appear coloured ; those 
of rivers which water the high plateaux of South America, show, 
in certain cases, a blackish tint which they owe to an acid humic 
matter borrowed from the granitic soils which they traverse 
(Miintz and Marcano). 

Nevertheless the populations of these countries prefer these 
black waters to the white waters of the same regions. 

The real danger of drinking waters lies above all in the lower 
organisms which can live there. They come, in a large measure, 
from the excrements of animals and human beings. Without 
doubt, pathogenic bacteria are frail and only multiply with 
difficulty in waters already inhabited by harmless microbes 
(Meade, Bolton) ; but they may still multiply there. In 1887 
Messrs. Chantemesse and Widal found the bacillus of typhoid 
living and cultivable in the water of the Seine at Paris. ^ The 

1 See my book : Le cuivre et le plomb dans V alimentation et Vindtistrie 
(Paris 1853, p. 152 seq.). 2 Arch, phyaiolog., April 1887. 

354 



I 



ORGANIC MATTERS OF DRINKING WATERS 

comma bacillus of cholera was discovered in 1884 by R. Koch 
in the water of the ponds of India where thousands of other 
microbes abounded. That of the septicae was taken by G. 
Gaffky from the waters of the Spree at Berlin. Nevertheless 
as Bolton, Karlinski and then Dubarry have shown, patho- 
genic bacilli disappear fairly rapidly from river waters owing to 
the harmless bacteria which live there. These rapidly suppress 
the bacilli of cholera, anthrax and yellow fever. Whilst in 
spring or stream water, previously sterilized, Dubarry again 
found the bacillus of anthrax living 131 days after he had intro- 
duced it there, and that of typhoid fever 81 days after, the first 
disappeared after 4 days, the second after 2 days, the cholera 
bacillus after 1 day, if the cultures of each of these microbes were 
put into the same non-sterilized waters. 

These facts and the history of epidemics show the possibility 
and the reality of the transmission of typhoid fever, cholera, 
yellow fever, etc., by drinking waters. We even ought, we think, 
to add the transmissibility of malaria by marsh water outside 
of the ordinary inoculation of the specific haematozoa by the 
stings of the anopheles. Finally, it is almost certain that waters 
are the means of carrying and transmitting dysentery. From 
1869 to 1873 the deaths attributable to this disease rose, in the 
capital of Austria, to 84 a year. From 1874 onwards, the time 
when mountain waters were substituted for those of the Danube, 
the annual mortality from dysentery fell to 12. To-day it has 
almost entirely disappeared. 

Endemics of goitre and cretinism have been attributed from 
all time to the use of unhealthy waters. They have been succes- 
sively accused of too much freshness, want of aeration, richness 
in magnesia, lack of iodine, decomposed organic matters, etc. 
I have previously criticized these opinions which are all ill 
founded. '^ 

As the result of an inquiry which lasted nearly twenty years, 
Mgr. Billat, Archbishop of Chambery, arrived in 1850 at his 
remarkable conclusion that endemic goitre is brought about by a 
miasmatic cause which is produced in certain soils, especially 
in magnesian soils rich in organic matters in course of putrefac- 
tion, miasmas which communicate to the waters their toxic pro- 
perties. In a word, as we should say to-day, the cause of this 
affection is attributable to a microbe, still unknown, breeding 
particularly in magnesian soils from which the drinking waters 
take it. 

We ought further to point out here the protozoas and ento- 
zoas which, in the state of eggs or larva?, are carried by drink- 
ing water ; the eggs of the bothriocephalus and toenia, ascaris 
lurabrie coidis, etc. ; the amboea of the diarrhoea of Cochin 
1 Les eaiix potables ; J. B. Baillere, publisher, Paris 1863. 

355 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

China, bilharzia of Egypt and of the Cape, the distoma hepatica, 
filaria of the blood, etc. But in a book on ahmentation it is 
not possible to enlarge, even incidentally, on this important 
branch of special pathology. 

Distribution of Drinking Waters ; Quantities Necessary. 

If it is a question of an urban population, of the choice of new 
sources, of the construction of cisterns or of basins, etc., the first 
question which always presents itself is that of the quantity of 
water which may be necessary per head per diem. This question 
admits of many solutions : from the strict point of view of daily 
needs, we may say that for personal toilet purposes or for the 
use of the house 100 litres of water are strictly sufficient per head 
daily. If it is a question of the needs of a town, with its watering 
of streets and gardens, its steam engines, its lifts and other 
hydraulic machines, its industries, etc., it seems that 150 to 180 
litres are indispensable daily for each inhabitant. According 
to Graham, 128 English towns receive on an average 142 litres 
per head daily ; Paris 250 litres ; Toulouse 160 ; New York 
300 ; Dijon 150. But with its monumental fountains and its 
waters gushing in almost every house and at each cross-way, 
ancient Rome used to distribute 2,000 litres of water daily to 
each of its inhabitants. 

Conduits, Reservoirs. — Drinking waters should be brought to 
towns by round pipes or covered channels. They may be made 
of pottery, of cemented masonry, of cast iron lined or not with 
coatings into which tar, asphalt, etc., enter, but never of lead. 
The reason has been given before (p. 353). 

Urban reservoirs are generally of concrete covered with 
hydraulic cement well smoothed. The best are those which are 
sunk for several metres in the soil or which have been hollowed 
out in the rock. Every reservoir of water ought to be covered, 
and if possible underground. 

Purification of Waters. — Water unfit to drink may be thick, 
muddy, contaminated with organic and organized matters. It 
may contain salts in excess. A different method of purification 
is suitable in each case. 

There are very few waters which can be drunk without having 
been previously clarified in the large reservoirs of towns. It is 
only at the end of from eight to ten days that the muddy water 
from rivers becomes almost clear there. 

This purification by deposit can only be viewed as a first rough 
treatment. Indeed microbes only disappear from these waters 
at the end of several weeks. It becomes necessary then, in 
almost every case, to complete the purification by a careful 
filtration. f 

This may be done either in the separate households by means 

356 



I 



FILTRATION OF WATERS 



of domestic filters or by the authorities for the needs of the whole 
town. 

A large number of systems of filters intended for separate 
households have been proposed. 

The simplest consists of a large sponge, well washed with 
hydrochloric acid at 2 per cent., which is forcibly pressed down 
to the bottom of a cast-iron cylinder, or if need be of an earthen- 
ware pipe, pierced with a hole in the bottom. Half the cylinder 
is then filled with well washed sand. The water poured in 
passes through the sand and the sponge for a distance of 20 to 
40 centimetres, depositing there a large part of its impurities. 
At the end of some days the sand is choked with the ordinary 
bacteria of water. The filtra- 
tion then proceeds more slowly 
but the water passes through 
with its dangerous impurities 
perceptibly lessened. This filter 
has the advantage of being able 
to be made quickly and almost 
anywhere. 

An iron or wooden cask may 
be used, at the bottom of which 
one or two sheets of flannel or 
of well washed felt are placed ; 
it is then filled with pebbles 
and fine sand interspersed with 
layers of charcoal and scraps of 
iron. A lateral tube, running 
to the bottom of the cask allows 
the air drawn in by the water 
to escape from the top of the 
filter. 

In the preceding filter the 
sand may be replaced by bone 

charcoal. The trade thus constructs some very good charcoal 
filters. One kind is formed by an agglomerated block, dense 
but porous, furnished with a central tubular hole to which is 
fitted an india-rubber tube which acts as a syphon. Tiiis block 
of charcoal being plunged in the water to be filtered, suction is 
made at the outlet of the india-rubber enabling the water to 
flow and so become purified while passing through the filtering 
cylinder. 

The following apparatus (Fig. 9) is preferable : 

Out of a thick asbestos cloth is made a kind of accordion pocket 
of a double cone a a e, supported in the interior by a shell G of 
stoneware pierced with holes in the base and terminating in an 
outlet e which serves for the water to escape. This apparatus 

357 




Soffc/^'j/s -^ 



Fig. 9. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



is placed in a cylindrical stoneware jar, V, the lower tubulature 
closed by a cork through which the outlet e passes. This jar V 
is itself placed in the centre of a reservoir F provided with a 
cover, and at the foot with a tap R. In the central jar V, 
between its walls and the filtering asbestos cone, is placed a 
layer of 30 and 40 centimetres deep of black animal char- 
coal partly grainy, partly pulverized, which fills it almost 
entirely ; on this the water to be filtered flows from above. It 
passes through the charcoal which it is not slow in inundating, 
then through the thick asbestos cloth and passes by the holes 
of the lower part into the central cone whence it goes to the 
reservoir F which it fills. The filtered water 
is collected by the tap at the foot. 

This filter, especially when it has been in 
use several days and is working well, causes 
the greater part of the pathogenic microbes 
which flow in it to disappear. It absorbs 
wholly or in part metallic salts of zinc, lead, 
etc., which the water may contain in a small 
quantity. It deprives it of a part of its lime 
and magnesia, of all its iron, and of a notable 
quantity of its organic matters, etc. 

Everybody knows the ordinary filter of the 
Parisian households. It is formed by a reser- 
voir of limestone and of sandstone separated 
into two compartments of unequal heights by 
f^ means of a thin inclined sheet formed of a 
porous stone and bound to the vertical walls 
by a special cement. The water which fills 
the fountain passes through this stone dia- 
phragm at a slight pressure and deposits its 
mud and microbes on the surface. When this 
filtering partition is intact and well cemented 
we may reckon on the purification of the 
water. It is only necessary to rinse out the 
apparatus from time to time and to gently scrape the upper 
face of the filtering stone. 

In 1884, I invented the filters of unglazed porcelain or earthen- 
ware for the purpose of sterilizing water and culture liquids.^ 
The filter called Chamherland (Fig. 10), which came after mine, 
consists of a tube of unglazed porcelain enclosed in a metallic 
mandrel, porcelain which the water traverses from the exterior 
to the interior. It gets rid of the greater part of its impurities 
on the filtering partition. These filters of porcelain paste incom- 
pletely baked have rendered real service, but they are far from 

1 See Bull. Acad, med., t. XI, pp. 314, 352, and BuU. Soc. chim., t. 
XL VII, p. 146, June 1884. 




Fig. 10. 

Chamberland 

Porcelain Filter. 



FILTRATION OF DRINKING WATERS 

presenting every guarantee of safety. The public demands, 
and trade provides it with more and more rapid filters. This 
apparent quality is only obtained by giving to the porcelain 
partitions more and more thinness and porosity. 

By the passage of the water, the porcelain at the end of a 
certain time disaggregates, its openings continue to increase 
instead of diminishing, and the rate of filtration increases more 
and more. My first observations on this subject, confirmed by 
MM. Bourquelot, Galippe, Villejean and Miquel in France, and 
Wolfhiigel and Riedel in Germany, have proved that several 
pathogenic or saprogenic microbes pass by degrees across these 
porcelain filters or penetrate into their partitions by their mycelia 
which traverse them. 

Attempts have also been made to replace unglazed porcelain 
by unglazed asbestos of a much closer and more efficacious grain. 
Generally the water to be filtered first passes into a cylinder of 
rough porous charcoal to pass afterwards across the partition 
of unglazed asbestos. 

When it is a question of purifying the water of an entire town, 
the preceding filters are insufficient, or at least cannot be looked 
upon as being destined to complete the purification of the water 
distributed in each house by the town pipes. Generally the 
water of towns is first purified by deposit in large reservoirs if 
it is a question of spring water, or by filtration through the soil 
if it is a question of that of streams and of rivers. The type of 
these last filters was that which was made at Toulouse in the 
eighteenth century by the engineer D' Aubuisson for the waters of 
the Garonne. By means of a series of galleries, the water of the 
stream traverses by its own weight a natural bank of sand and 
of pebbles formerly deposited by the Garonne. It is then 
collected in galleries of dry stone, the floor of which is 4-30 m. 
below the level of the soil and 1-lOm. above the level of the water 
of the surrounding wells. This latter condition protects the 
water received in the galleries from the infiltration of the waters 
of the subsoil, which are always infected by the refuse and 
detritus of the town. 

Since then, filtration of river water through sandy soils has 
been adopted at Warsaw, Berlin, Calcutta, Hanover, Strasburg, 
London, etc. At Berlin the waters taken from the Tegelsee, 
from the Rummelburgersee and the Spree, first drop their mud 
in some large basins where they stay twenty-four hours. They 
are then filtered across layers of gritty pebbles the grain of which 
constantly diminishes down to fine sand. The thickness crossed 
is l-40m. Waters thus treated should not contain more than 
some himdreds of microbes per cubic centimetre. The greater 
part have been arrested or destroyed by means of the action of 
the sandy layers inundated by deposit of very active zoogloea. 

359 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The soil possesses a marvellous power of destroying microbes, 
but on condition of there being no large fissures and of the water 
filtering regularly and slowly from layer to layer. When it is a 
question not of filtering river water, but of purifying sewer water, 
the speed ought to be such that through a layer of 2 metres thick 
not more than 15,000 to 20,000 cubic metres per hectare run 
per year. A surface of 1 metre square should not then give 
more than 5 to 6 litres of water per day. In the experiments 
made by D. Miquel for the town of Paris the water yielded per 
cubic centimetre : — Rain water, 35 microbes umters of the Vanne, 
62 ; vxbters of the Seine, 1,200 ; sewer water, 20,000. The same 
sewer loater on leaving the drains of GenneviUiers, after having 
filtered across the soil at the above-named speed, did not contain 
more than 24 microbes. R. Koch, at Berlin, has found : Boiled 
distilled water, 4 to 6 colonies ; water from the Rummelburgersee, 
32,000; sewage water, 38,000,000. In the same sewage water 
on leaving the drains of Osdorff, 37,800 were found — that is to say, 
a thousand times fewer. 

But for the filtration of drinking waters taken from rivers, 
generally sand filters l-50m. and even 50 centimetres thick, are 
considered sufficient, and the water is made to pass through at a 
speed of 15 centimetres per hour. Wibel has noticed that after 
this rapid filtration, water from the Elbe at Hamburg loses 34 
to 61 per cent, of its dissolved matters and 64 per cent, of its 
organic substances, but the micro-organisms and their germs 
pass through in part, and it is necessary before drinking these 
waters to purify them again by good domestic filters. 

We have remarked before that these last, even the most 
perfect, do not arrest the whole of the dissolved organic matters 
or even all the microbes. To effect a complete purification one 
may have recourse to two methods : chemical actions or heat. 

Many means of purifying drinking waters chemically have 
been extolled. The most practical are : the use of permanganate 
of lime or potash, ozone or peroxide of chlorine. 

The permanganates of potash or of lime should be added to 
the water until it remains slightly pink. It can then be filtered 
on charcoal. The organic matters, the microbes are in a large 
measure oxidized or destroyed by this process. 

Ozone also appears to be a good sterilizer of drinkable waters 
in the quantity of 6 milligrms. per litre, provided that its action be 
sufficiently prolonged and that the waters are not too rich in 
organic matters. Only the bacillus subtili would partially 
resist. Some experiments made at Lille by MM. Roux and 
Calmet have partly verified these results.^ 

Peroxide of chlorine, ClO^ has also been commended for steriliz- 

^ See Journ. pharm. et chim., June 1, 1899, p. 552. 
360 



PURIFICATION OF DRINKING WATERS 

ing drinking water. It would act sufficiently in the proportion 
of 1 grm. per cubic metre of water. It is obtained by the action, 
when cold, of sulphuric acid at 28° Beaume (3 parts H^SO* and 1 
part water) on chlorate of potash. The action of this gas ought 
to be prolonged for some time in order to be efficacious. There 
are other methods of chemical purification of drinking waters 
which allow us to do without filters, which we cannot have every- 
where, and which deprive the water of the substances which 
make it muddy or render it undrinkable, and at the same 
time of a large part of its micro-organisms. If the water is 
impure from organic matters it can be cleansed with slaked lime, 
with pipeclay, etc., a little alum may be added, then a little milk 
of lime. At the end of thirty-six to forty hours, the water is 
cleared and the precipitate has carried ofif nearly the whole of 
the suspicious matters. 

If the water is too selenitic, two thousandths of carbonate of 
soda may be added to it, or a little lixivium of wood ash which 
precipitates the lime to the state of carbonate. If it is over- 
charged with magnesian salts, like those of the African chotts, 
it is treated with a slight excess of clear whitewash : the liquor 
having become limpid, it is decanted and shaken in the air in 
order to finally render insoluble by carbonic acid the traces 
of lime which have remained in solution. 

Of all these processes of purification, including the careful 
filtration of water, none equals purification by heat or distilla- 
tion. Water boiled for some minutes may be considered as 
absolutely inoffensive : whether it is drunk after cooling in the 
air, where it becomes sufficiently aerated, or whether it is absorbed 
in the form of infusions of very weak tea or coffee. The in- 
habitants of Central Asia, China, India, Morocco, the Pacific 
Isles, etc., have no other process of rendering harmless the danger- 
ous waters of their marshes and rivers. In a time of epidemic 
it is always prudent to have recourse to the boiling of water. 
If boiled in the evening, for three or four minutes, the water is 
cleared and sufficiently aerated the next day ; it may be drunk 
without danger. To increase the precaution one might add 
before boiling some drops of permanganate of potash or lime 
until it becomes persistently pink coloured, which colour would 
disappear by boiling in a moment. By means of these pre- 
cautions, the most dangerous waters can be drunk without any 
disadvantage accruing.^ 

1 Some filters have been made where the water flows slowly after having 
been brought to boiling point and cooled (See Presse medicale, March 5, 
1904). 



36 X 



XXXIII 

RATIONAL PREPARATION OF FOOD — DISTRIBUTION AND COMPO- 
SITION OF MEALS — AIDS TO DIGESTION 

AFTER having established what is the normal allowance for 
a man in health, in repose or at work, and studied the 
different foods of animal, vegetable or mineral origin which 
turns to account, it remains for me, before passing to the exam- 
ination of alimentary diets, in each of the stages of health or 
sickness, to say some words on the rational preparation of foods 
and on the best composition and distribution of meals. 

Preparation : Presentation of Food. — The manner in which 
foods are prepared and presented may influence their use and 
digestibility still more than it influences their actual composition. 
The stomach has its perception on which the senses of sight, 
smell and taste react and is subject to psychical impressions, 
emotions and recollections, as Pavlow has established scientific- 
ally. He has shown that the sight of pleasing dishes (such as 
meat, for example, in the case of dogs) Uke their odour, pro- 
duces before they have had any direct contact with the mucous 
membrane of the mouth or the stomach, a specific salivary and 
gastric flow which prepares and provokes digestion and defin- 
itive pepsic secretion. It is necessary then that the appear- 
ance, odour, savour and variety of the foods should first please 
our senses and satisfy even our mind in order to prepare the 
stomach to digest them well. 

We should be wrong not to take count of these important 
factors. The pleasure and repugnance which such or such a 
method of presenting and seasoning a food inspires, spurs the 
digestion, so to speak, excites or hinders the stomachic func- 
tions, and if this is true in the case of a man in good health, it 
is still more so in the case of one weak or ill. 

A food which pleases will be generally well digested ; if it 
is repugnant it is already more than half useless ; often even 
indigestible and consequently dangerous. 

Cooking. — The cooking of food is an immemorial practice. 
Since man has known how to make fire, he has cooked certain 
dishes either when it was a question of meats to develop their 
aroma and flavour, or in the preparation of vegetables to make 

362 



TEMPERATURE OF FOODS 

them digestible. But cooking has another and more important 
role still. It acts as an antiseptic to the foods by destroying 
all that, while living, might become dangerous. 

From the point of view of chemical transformations, cooking 
does not modify fatty bodies and the sugars only very slightly. 
On the contrary, it hydrates, swells and brings about the burst- 
ing of the grains of starch which it transforms into amylodex- 
trins, dextrins and assimilable sugars. It softens and disag- 
gregates the tough parts, destroys the envelopes of many of the 
vegetable cells, and by increasing the surfaces assures insalivation, 
more complete grinding by the teeth and the stomachic or intes- 
tinal solution by the digestive ferments. 

The granivorous animal which digests grain is obliged to 
subject it to the mechanical action of his energetic muscular 
stomach ; it is sufficient for man to cook these same foods or 
their derivatives, to attain the same result with a much less 
powerful stomach. 

Albuminoid matters are modified, more or less profoundly, 
by boiling with water or roasting. Heat coagulates the albumin- 
oids, gelatinizes the cellular membranes or softens them. The 
roasting of meat raises it slowly in the centre to 70° to 85°. 
Liebig considered that it was cooked when it had throughout 
reached the temperature of 60° only. 

It has been said, a propos of muscular tissue, that cooking 
makes it more digestible and more accessible to mastication, 
but it also removes its natural ferments. By way of compen- 
sation, it destroys (at least in boiled meat) the morbid germs, 
the typical ferments, and nearly all the parasites that it may 
contain in the fresh state. For vigorous stomachs, raw or much 
underdone meats are not as good then as well roasted or boiled 
meats. 

The minute modifications which roasting causes meats to 
undergo, influence at once their composition, their taste and 
their digestibility or use (see p. 41). They should not all be 
subject equally to the action of heat. An old saying that I 
heard quoted many times at table in my youth used to run, 
and, I believe, with reason : Very young lamb ; underdone mutton ; 
roast veal; thoroughly cooked pork. Nothing is more unpleasant 
and sometimes more dangerous by reason of their parasites or 
febrile ferments than certain beefs or porks which are underdone. 

Temperature of the Foods. — As a rule foods ought to be taken 
warm and drinks cool. But drinks need not be icy or foods 
burning. Too much cold or heat causes the cracking of the 
enamel of the teeth, which slowly decay. Drinks which are too 
cold end by weakening the stomach by the constant stimulation 
they give. They may besides disagree and many visceral 
rheumatisms, which are not due to any other cause, disappear 

363 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

when tepid or warm drinks are substituted for icy or even cold 
drinks. 

As for solid foods consumed cold, they only agree with vigor- 
ous stomachs. Again warm nieals are always better than cold. 

Foods taken at too high a temperature are not to be recom- 
mended in any case. Kostjurin and afterwards F. Spoeth 
made some experiments on this subject on animals and man, 
from which it follows that all foods reaching the stomach at a 
temperature higher than 50°, occasion uneasiness, hyperaemia 
of the mucous membranes, hinder the production of the digest- 
ive juices and compromise the efficacy of their ferments. The 
stomachs of rabbits and dogs which have received by the oeso- 
phageal tube the water at 60°, even when it is followed imme- 
diately by a dose of cold water, are inflamed, infiltrated and 
sometimes ulcerated in places.^ 

The most appropriate temperatures for taking different foods 
are the following :— 



Drinking water . . . 9°-12° 


Soups 


. 40°-50° 


White wines, beer . . 8°-10° 


Purees . . . . 


. 40°-43° 


Red wines .... 16°-18° 


Roasted meats 


. 40°-45° 


Coffee, chocolate 


. . . 45°-50° 





It is advisable that one dish, at least, per meal be taken warm, 
and soup for preference. An entirely cold meal is a condition 
unfavourable for the liquefaction of the gelatines, fats, etc., or 
for bringing about their emulsioning and good digestion. Cold 
meals should at all events be accompanied by a warm beverage, 
such as tea or coffee, and in case of need, by some cubic centi- 
metres of brandy to excite the gastric secretion sufficiently. 
It is thus that the instinctive necessity of rewarming a stomach 
which only receives cold foods leads, or may lead, the workman 
and peasant, who is often obliged to eat cold things, to the 
abuse of alcoholic drinks. 

Condiments. — Condiments and sauces, etc., modify the taste 
of foods and are used to make them more agreeable, appetizing 
and stimulating. These skilful and sometimes delicate acces- 
sories are less agreeable to healthy and vigorous stomachs. They 
often correspond rather to the satisfaction of a pleasure, more 
or less artificial, than to a real want. 

Fatty sauces as a rule hinder digestion and only agree with 
strong stomachs. Spices hasten digestion but irritate the 
digestive tubes. All these preparations give to blunted or 
weak appetites a satisfaction — a little artificial it is true — but 
also sometimes a help. Some invalids may be allowed ,to 
employ them, but they do not agree with fever patients, gastral- 

1 St. Kostjurin, Petersburger mediziniache Wochen, 1879. F. Spoeth, 
Arch. f. Hygiene, 1886, p. 68. 



CULINARY VESSELS 

gics or hyperchlorics. Dishes too highly seasoned, too much 
spiced, may by degrees lead even healthy stomachs to an 
excessive consumption and all its consequences. 

Culinary Vessels. — The vessels in which we cook or serve up 
our foods ought to be suitably chosen. Earthen vessels covered 
with an impermeable vitrefied glaze and earthenware should 
only be employed for cooking vegetables if their glaze does not 
contain or yield any lead, even with vinegar and salt water, which 
is boiled in them for some time. Water and foods, especially 
acid foods, may in fact borrow this dangerous metal from the 
glazing of coarse earthenware when it contains lead and has 
been imperfectly baked in the fire. Several eases of lead poi- 
soning have been produced under these conditions, especially 
in our colonies. 

Vessels of glass and ordinary porcelain are very healthy. 
They have not the disadvantage of cracking like pottery, which, 
in becoming thus slightly permeable, always collects and keeps 
in its flaw, in spite of repeated washings, traces of previous 
meals. Becoming putrid, they communicate to these utensils, 
a special odour and may even sometimes become a cause of 
change in the dishes that one serves or keeps in earthenware. 

Cast-iron vessels give an inky taste to some foods. The iron 
should therefore be enamelled. An unchangeable enamel is 
made at the present time from an aluminous-alkaline-earthy 
silicate ; it is free from lead and stands fire well. Unfortun- 
ately many of these enamelled saucepans split, crack and may 
introduce little pieces of their glazing into the food. Good 
modern enamels are free from lead and have not this disadvan- 
tage. It appears to me a mistake to attribute to this cause 
cases of appendicitis which have become so numerous to-day. 

Vessels of red copper not tinned do not give rise to any appre- 
ciable danger, as M. Galippe has well established, but they 
communicate to foods a very disagreeable metallic taste which, 
moreover, suffices to warn one of the presence of this metal and 
prevent any serious accident. In reality, very bright copper 
vessels, well cleaned, may be said to present no danger. Those 
which are lined with pure tin (999 thousandths at the least of 
tin with 0-5 per cent, of lead at the most) and a fortiori silver 
utensils are excellent for cooking. The same holds good for 
pure nickel (A. Riche, Geerkens) and for vessels of aluminium, 
a metal indeed little suitable for use and very liable to be 
changed by culinary agents. The numerous alloys called 
white metal, Algiers metal, German silver, packfong, Britannia 
metal. Queen's metal, etc., alloys into the composition of which 
copper, lead, antimony, zinc, tin, and even arsenic, enter, are 
only suitable for other purposes. 

Tin vessels should be of pure tin. At most, and for reasons 

365 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of economy, certain hospital administrations and managements 
allow it to contain 5 per cent, of lead or other impurities. Un- 
fortunately many tin goblets, plates, etc., in our hospitals, 
and many old vessels of tin, contain 10 per cent, and more 
of lead. I have already proved elsewhere that with 10 per 
cent, and upwards of this last impurity, a tin vessel is slightly 
attacked by pure water, sweetened water or acidulous water, 
which dissolve a part of the toxic metal. 

Distribution of Meals. 

Like the ancient Greeks, our forefathers took three meals ; 
two light ones, one in the morning on getting up, the other in 
the evening when the day was done and the sun set, and a prin- 
cipal meal, that at midday, usually followed by a siesta with 
one or two hours rest. The needs of modern activity have 
caused the copious midday repast to be replaced by a lighter 
meal which allows, without the siesta, intellectual or physical 
work almost immediately afterwards, but which necessitates 
a second substantial meal in the evening, six or seven hours 
after that of midday, generally three hours before the night's 
rest. To these two principal repasts, of fairly modern origin, 
are usually added, in France and Grermany, the light dejeuner 
which follows rising and sometimes, at least in the case of 
children, the light meal, about four to five o'clock (five o'clock 
tea in England, the Vesperbrod of the Germans). This 
division of meals, without being absolutely hygienic, appears 
fairly suitable. In England, in families in easy circumstances, 
and in many houses in Germany, breakfast is taken at nine 
o'clock, dinner at two (this is the principal meal), and tea at 
five with a little tea, coffee, cocoa, beer, butter, bread or ham, 
and lastly a light supper before going to bed. 

Fifty years ago in France, the meals were more logically dis- 
tributed ; rising in the morning about six o'clock followed by 
a very light meal, dinner about eleven (not heavy), the principal 
meal, supper, being about six o'clock. One had thus from seven 
to eleven o'clock in the morning, from one to six o'clock in the 
afternoon, nine hours free for work ; a further three hours from 
seven to ten in the evening for pleasure, walking and family 
gatherings, with eight hours for sleep. Under these conditions 
the supper at six o'clock came just at the moment when the 
losses in substance corresponding to the daily bodily work had 
need of being made good. It was taken rather early in order 
that the stomachic digestion of this evening meal should be 
very nearly finished at the time of going to sleep. That of the 
midday meal was far advanced when one went back to business 
one or two hours afterwards. 

The nature of the meals should vary with the nature of 

366 



COMPOSITION OF MEALS 

the occupations. A sufficient but light dejeuner about midday 
suits those who are occupied chiefly with ofl&ce work or busi- 
ness. But for the workman or peasant, who, from six to seven 
o'clock in the morning to midday or one o'clock has already 
taken tiring exercise, the midday repast should be sufficiently 
liberal and allow him not only to make good his losses, but also 
to provide him afresh with disposable energy. 

What is not proper is to take all the nourishment for twenty- 
four hours at one time. The stomach digests it less easily ; 
under these conditions it remains surcharged for some hours, and 
the needs in actual or reserve energy are not so well satisfied. 

It is necessary in digestion that each transformation should 
take place at its proper time. Pavlow has shown that after 
meat has been introduced into the stomach, several minutes 
elapse before the pepsin is secreted. This is without doubt 
the time that the ptyalin employs to transform the cooked starch 
into sugar. Later the acidity of the gastric juice produced 
must be sufficient to secure that on arriving in the duodenum 
it excites the pancreatic and intestinal secretion. An insuffi- 
cient mastication, a hurried meal, upset this combination of 
acts which harmonize and complete one another under normal 
conditions ; digestion becomes laborious and abnormal in the 
contrary case. 

We must then eat without hurry, giving ourselves time to 
masticate and insalivate. Incomplete mastication causes linger- 
ing and imperfect digestion ; it may give rise to intestinal 
catarrh. 

However, meat badly masticated is more easily digested 
than the bread or vegetables which accompany it and which 
are too rapidly swallowed. Fr. Strumpell, after a dish of boiled 
lentils swallowed whole without being chewed, found 40 
per cent, of the nitrogen taken in under these conditions, in the 
faeces. The same thing practically applies to other vegetables 
or to bread too new and badly insahvated. 

Finally, one must not during meals give oneself up to intel- 
lectual work, reading, calculations or preoccupations of any 
sort. Meals taken alone are on tliis account unfavourable. 



Composition of Meals. 

Alimentation becomes more and more animal and richer in 
fat bodies as we get nearer to the Poles. The population on the 
borders of the Frozen Sea, the Laplanders, Greenlanders and 
Ostiaks feed almost entirely on fish and the flesh and fat of 
seals, as much from instinct as from the impossibility of doing 
otherwise. The Arab, on the contrary, is satisfied with some 
dates and a little couscous, the Neapolitan finds his macaroni 

367 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

sufficient, while the people of the intermediate zone mix in 
a rational proportion their nitrogenous, fatty, sugared and 
starchy foods. 

In France the amount of meat per head is, as we have seen, 
39kgs. per annum. We have said (p. 125) that it rises to 59 kgs. 
in England and 94 kgs. in Paris. It is 72 kgs. on an average 
in the big French towns and only 19 kgs. in the country. 
The peasant then has scarcely 26 grms. of fresh meat per 
meal. We see that this quantity is insufficient for the work- 
man and labourer who have most need of it. Even at the 
present time meat is only, so to speak, a relish for the country- 
man. A man living in a town, on the other hand, generally 
eats more meat than agrees with him. We have seen that 
in Paris the alimentary principles of animal origin exceed 
480 grms. per day, 260 grms. of which are meat, and this figure 
must be at least doubled for many unoccupied townsmen. 

Like the opium smoker, the individual who accustoms him- 
self to meat, feels that he misses it when he does not take the 
usual excess. It is the illusion of the morphia-maniac, the 
tobacco-maniac, of the alcoholic, etc., the harmful exaggera- 
tion of the man in easy circumstances who believes that he is 
satisf3dng a need only created by himself, who takes his pleasure 
in making himself ill, and who thus of ten imagines he is defending 
the interests of his health. 

Supposing that he takes two or three dishes at each of his 
two or more principal meals, the average man who does not do 
manual work ought not to eat more than 250 to 300 grms. of 
meat or fish per day^ — a woman a sixth less. For the other 
food it is enough if he does not depart perceptibly from the 
allowance that we have established by experiment and theory 
(see Part I., p. 24) 

In contrast with the man in easy circumstances, the peasant 
is short of meat, as we have just observed. His alimentation 
is too exclusively vegetable and forces on him a perpetual 
digestion of dishes of great size which nourish him badly : 
potatoes, green vegetables, fruits, etc., which bring him only 
an insufficient quantity of nitrogen. Hence the gastralgia, 
dyspepsia and enteritis so frequent in this class. This 
imperfect diet is happily counterbalanced by work in the open 
air, ventilated, isolated and sunny dwellings, good rest at night 
and sometimes in the middle of the day, and the minimum of 
incitements to intemperance or vice. But nevertheless, owing 
to his defective alimentation and in spite of so many other 
advantages, the average life of the countryman is still shorter 
than that of a man of the middle class and the workman in 
towns. 

1 Each egg may be reckoned at 40 grmsi of meat. 
368 



I 



COMPOSITION OF MEALS 

The workman in towns lodges, too, under insanitary condi- 
tions; he lacks open air and light, he often does work out of 
proportion to his alimentation. He sometimes sacrifices for 
his pleasures the time for sleep. 

The handicraftsman should consume per day at least 500 
grms. of meat, 700 grms. of bread and 80 to 100 grms. of fatty 
bodies. A diet composed of 300 grms. of meat, 250 cc. of milk, 
100 grms. of dry vegetables, 70 to 80 grms. of ham or bacon, 
200 grms. of potatoes with all the variations which present 
themselves in practice agrees with him perfectly, especially if 
he can add to it a little wine (250 to 500 cc. per day) and a 
cup of coffee. 

Whatever be the social position of the family or individual, 
what is to be especially avoided is exclusive alimentation. 
There are some tables from which vegetables are almost 
excluded because it is said that they are not sufficiently nour- 
ishing, or because they do not make a good enough show, or 
because they do not please palates accustomed to the incisive 
taste of meats, sometimes because their preparation demands 
more care and time than the housewife can give to them — for 
example, in families in which she goes out to work. It is thought 
possible by an excess of nitrogenous alimentation to make 
up for the deficiency, intentional or not, of vegetables. That 
is a very dangerous error. With such a dietary, children grow 
up nervous, cacochymic and eczematous ; later on they will 
be arthritic, gouty, calculous, megrimous and neuropathic. 
/ have no doubt that the degeneracy that has been noticed in many 
well-to-do families is due particularly to an alimentation com- 
posed too exclusively of flesh which they have gradually adopted. 
For a stronger reason we ought not to further exaggerate this 
tendency by replacing beef and mutton, roast or boiled, by pork- 
butcher's meat, hash, game, preserved fish, spiced stews, salted 
or smoked meats, by that of animals too young and by fer- 
mented cheeses with the necessary accompaniment of bitters, 
stimulants, spices, wines, liqueurs, coffee, tea, etc. . . . Such 
an alimentation entails every sort of disorder of the health, 
makes the race degenerate and decimates families. 

Bread, Meats, Fresh or Dry Vegetables. — That is the solid and 
rational basis of our meal, and if, in some cases, there is occasion, 
for reasons of hygiene or economy, to give preference to one of 
these categories of foods, it is towards vegetables that it would 
be wise to incline without excluding meat, or at least fish, from 
the principal meal. 

There is a period of life in which nitrogenous foods are more 
particularly indicated and, as it were, instinctively sought after. 
It is when puberty is being established. In the case of the 
young girl from fourteen to sixteen years of age and the boy of 

369 B B, 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

sixteen to nineteen years, an alimentation particularly rich in 
meat is as necessary as plenty of sleep, and often more food by 
weight, than in the case even of the adult, is necessary for these 
young people. It is not, unfortunately, the rule generally 
followed in our boarding schools and lycees, where everything 
continues to be done, not from the point of view of science and 
reason, but from that of administration, that is to say with 
parsimony and by routine. 

Beyond the age of adolescence, we think that it is not wise, 
when in good health, especially for those who do not take 
fatiguing exercise, to allow oneself to satisfy one's appetite 
completely at each meal. 

We have already said that the good preparation and agree- 
able presentation of the meal has a great influence upon the 
digestion. A clean and well laid table cheers the spirit and at 
once satisfies the stomach. The good smell of the dishes, 
their sapidity and warmth from the moment that they reach the 
mouth, excite the secretions of the digestive juices. Cold or 
warm drinks, by reason of the stomachic contractions which 
they provoke, rapidly carry towards the intestines the parts 
already more soluble. The stimulation of the muscular tissue 
starts in a still more active manner the hepatic and intestinal 
secretions. Variety in the dishes, by provoking different 
sensations, prevents the appetite from becoming used to a food, 
and preserves its keenness. 

For many reasons, which we have already developed, meals 
ought to be made up in such a manner that they bring us a 
total of sufficient alimentary principles in a moderate volume 
and weight. 

The meal of the Parisian weighs, drinks deducted, about 
550 grms. It scarcely reaches 1 kg. with drinks. The 
weight of the workman's or peasant's meal, especially in poor 
countries, drinks not included, rises to 1,000 and 1,500 grms. 
without furnishing him with a sufficient quantity of nutritive 
principles. 

Wlien eating, one ought to drink according to one's thirst, 
and not be stopped by the consideration that, in the case of 
hydrochlorics in particular, water diminishes still further the 
too low standard of acidity of the gastric juice. Warm or 
cold drinks taken in moderation provoke and increase rather 
than diminish this secretion. Besides, according to Von Mering 
and Moritz, drinks pass very rapidly through the stomach, the 
contractions of this organ pushing them rapidly, by successive 
jets, into the small intestine. 500 cc. of water pass thus in the 
case of a man through the pylorus at the end of half an hour, 
when, the stay of meats in the stomach in the presence of the 
gastric juice, the secretion of which continues, usually exceeds 
three hours. 

370 



AIDS TO DIGESTION 

The use of water, and I add beer and milk, during the meal 
can only be harmful when excessive ; but in the case of milk 
or beer, their nutritive principles should be taken into account. 
These are not simple aqueous drinks. 

Drinking water by charging itself with dissolved particles, 
makes their absorption more rapid and allows what remains 
in the stomach to be more easily digested. 

Aids to Digestion and Appetite. 

I shall confine myself to pointing them out here in a few 
words only. 

To help or accelerate digestion, we may have recourse to 
physical means, to chemical or alimentary aperients and to 
medicinal agents. 

Amongst physical stimulants, exercise and mechanical work, 
walking and movement in fresh air, residence in the moun- 
tains or by the sea, gymnastics, hydrotherapy and massage 
should be cited. 

Every one knows the influence which muscular fatigue exer- 
cises on the appetite and digestion when it is not excessive, 
as also bodily exercises, games and walking in fresh air, gym- 
nastics and sports of every kind. A simple holiday in the moun- 
tains or by the sea, living in the country, suffice to revive and 
give tone to the stomach. For invalids and convalescents, 
drives in an open carriage act in the same way and perceptibly 
favour digestion by the movement they give to the contents 
of the stomach. 

Sea baths in particular, and even merely a visit to the sea- 
side, powerfully excite the assimilatory functions. 

On the other hand, the appetite quickly becomes small in the 
case of a child, convalescent or invalid, deprived of pure and 
fresh air, living inactive in a confined locality in the middle of 
large towns. 

As to the question whether we should or should not take 
exercise immediately after meals, we shall reply that the solu- 
tion of this problem depends on the state of health of the sub- 
jects. Young people in full vigour have no need of rest to 
digest their food ; on the other hand old people, gastralgics, 
hydrochlorics, chlorotics, neurasthenics, etc., those who have a 
troublesome or weakened stomachic or intestinal digestion, 
those who suffer from giddiness, insomnia, headache, muscu- 
lar weakness, palpitations, etc., all these should be allowed, 
while their digestion is going on, some rest, an hour at least, 
after the meal. 

All intellectual work at all intense should be avoided imme- 
diately after eating. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Moderate massage, especially abdominal massage, may, up 
to a certain point, take the place of exercise, hasten the diges- 
tion and particularly cause constipation to disappear. Hy- 
drotherapy and cold baths act in the same way. 

Condiments are, as we have already said (p. 264), the alimen- 
tary stimulants of the stomachic and digestive function. But 
they should be used with prudence, particularly spiced or bitter 
condiments, because the stimulus they give, becoming slowly 
deadened, we are led to increase day by day the use of these 
dangerous agents. Gastritis and enteritis, or simply disappear- 
ance of the appetite, are the grievous consequences of this abuse. 

Amongst the more harmless alimentary digestives we can 
cite : wine taken in small quantities, fermented cheese, sugar, 
and in some cases coffee, tea and different aromatic dishes, 
such as seasonings, sauces or ingredients of which we have 
already spoken at some length. 

Finally, amongst the aperients that we can call medicinal 
we will mention the bitter beverages : hop, quinquina, rhubarb, 
bitter orange peel, gentian, alder, tansy, quassia, strychnia, etc., 
in maceration with water, sometimes in liqueurs which lessen 
their bitterness. 

These excitants should only be used in very small quantities 
and at meal times. 

The liquids called aperients are often aromatized with cin- 
namon, coriander, aniseed, cloves, nutmeg and vanilla which 
are also stimulants of the stomach. It is wiser to do entirely 
without these stimulating drinks when one can, or, at any rate, 
only to make exceptional and very sparing use of them. 



372 



PART III 
Regimens 

XXXIV 

ALIMENTARY REGIMENS — THEIR INFLUENCES ON RACES, APTI- 
TUDES, MENTAL WORK — VARIATIONS NECESSITATED BY 
CLIMATE AND SEASONS 

THE alimentary regimens are the modes of alimentation which 
more especially aim at satisfying certain needs of the indi- 
vidual, the object of which, in the case of pathological troubles is, 
while nourishing the invalid, to help to restore him to health. 

Whether, in the case of animals or man the object be, by means 
of special alimentation, to cause such or such aptitudes to pre- 
vail — for example, muscular force, resistance to extreme climates, 
force of character, cerebral activity, etc.^ or whether one is trying 
to satisfy in the best way possible the needs created by the rapid 
development of the young being, and later by the coming of 
puberty, by pregnancy and by suckling ; or whether efforts are 
being made to modify by alimentation the temperament of an 
individual or his mode of discharging functions, to renew the 
strength of the convalescent, to support the invalid according to 
the indications furnished by his constitution or present state in 
such a way as to restore him to health as quickly as possible, 
etc. ; in all these cases it is advisable to regulate ahmentation by 
a special regimen ; and the rules and practice which originate 
from this fact deserve to be carefully stated and discussed from 
the physiological, chemical and clinical point of view. 

Understood in its broadest sense regimen would include all 
that relates to foods, beverages, exercises of the mind and body, 
to sleep and to waking, to clothes, etc. ; in a word to all that tends 
to protect or serve the individual and to favourably modify 
this condition. But we shaU limit ourselves in this special work 
to the study of alimentary regimen. 

373 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Strict Regimen and Regimen " de luxe" ; Their Influence on the 
Constitution and Health. — We have already established in Part I, 
basing ourselves both on national empiricism and on observation 
of the physiological needs and the losses of the system, what are, 
in quantities and kind, foods best suited to the healthy adult, 
either inactive or at work. The alimentary allowance in our 
climate gives an ordinary average man per day 107 grms. of 
albuminoids, 65 grms. of fatty bodies and about 400 grms. of 
starchy or saccharine matters including those which have a 
potential value equal to that of alcoholic beverages. But we have 
established on the other hand that the quantity of albuminoid 
substances can be reduced strictly speaking to 80 grms. per 
day in the case of the man who does not work, on condition 
that his foods supply him at the same time with at least 50 grms. 
of fats and 485 grms. of carbo-hydrates destined to provide for 
the requirements of calorification, which varies greatly according 
to the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere. For the 
French workman who does eight to ten hours work, the daily 
ration should contain at least 135 grms. of albuminoids with 58 
to 100 grms. of fatty matters and 500 to 900 grms. of starchy 
matters according to the amount of fatiguing or excessive effort 
exacted from him. 

These different allowances may be realized with the most 
varied foods provided that they are sufficiently digestible and 
assimilable, and that the weight of the alcohol substituted for 
sugar and starchy substances does not exceed \2 grms. to \5 
grms. per kilogramme per day of the weight of the body of the 
subject. 

If then in our climate, and for the man in relative repose, 80 
to 82 grms. of albuminoids (about half of which are furnished by 
muscular tissue and half by other foods) are strictly speaking 
sufficient, and if into the daily alimentation, as happens in Paris, 
for example, there enter 102 grms. — the difference, that is to say, 
20 to 22 grms., corresponds to a regimen of storage or " de luxe." 

The same may be said of the other principles which enter into 
the ordinary allowance of food. 

What are, from the point of view of health, the significance 
and the result of this, at least apparent, excess of proteid or 
starchy principles in our daily regimen ? 

Like the small workman without capital, who lives from day 
to day, the man who receives only just the necessary amount of 
food is constantly in danger of a deficiency. Whether the work 
imposed upon the animal machinery happens to be irregularly 
increased ; whether the functions and particularly the assimUa- 
tory functions be slightly disturbed ; whether owing to a fall in 
the surrounding temperature, the radiation of the body in- 
creases ; or whether sleep brings about insufficient repair, etc., 

374 



INFLUENCE OF REGIMENS ON CONSTITUTION 

each of these causes, and many others besides, by diminishing 
the receipts or increasing the expenditure, will augment the 
deficiency, and if there are no reserves, it will be by the com- 
bustion of the substance of the organs that henceforth a part of 
the mechanical work or even the maintenance of the animal tem- 
perature will be effected. Our fats exhausted, we shall then 
destroy, at least in an intermittent way, the proteids of our 
tissues in place of the sugars and of the defaulting fats. In order 
to avoid these deficiencies and losses, in order not to be driven 
to warm the house by burning the utensils, the system must then 
have a reserve at its disposal, namely, that created by a regimen 
called " de luxe." At least it is necessary that the gain of to-day 
should suffice to compensate for the loss of to-morrow, and that 
by means of a sufficient alimentation, it should be possible for 
a sort of mobile equilibrium to be established, in which the losses 
will never exceed the supplies, especially in albuminoids and 
mineral salts. 

It is then very important that we should have a slight excess 
of these fundamental alimentary principles every day. But 
this excess in its turn becomes dangerous if it goes beyond certain 
limits. The alimentary fatty bodies, the albuminoids of mus- 
cular tissue for example, if they are not utilized and burnt up by 
means of mechanical labour, by the powerful working of the 
lungs and skin, a sufficient 'combustion and a proportional 
radiation of heat, will, with all their wastes, accumulate in the 
organism, producing there obesity, visceral congestions, neuro- 
pathic conditions, arthritis, diseases of the skin, etc. What 
would be an excellent regimen for the workman and the labourer 
working in the open air, will then become a deplorable alimen- 
tation for the sedentary citizen who takes but little exercise, or 
for the artist and the scholar who give themselves up to intellect- 
ual work only. In the case of young people, and those whose 
organs, whatever be their age, have nearly preserved their normal 
activity, a slight excess of alimentation will have no other effect 
than necessitating a greater activity of the lungs, muscles, skin 
or kidneys. But this will not apply to the man who is growing 
old, or whose constitution or bodily habits are defective to begin 
with. In such a case an excess of alimentation will daily accent- 
uate decay ; hepatic or pulmonary congestions, arterio -sclerosis, 
alteration of the kidneys, fatty degeneration of the various organs, 
etc., will go on increasing, thus will become established little by 
little, if not disease, at any rate a predisposition to it, a diathesic 
state and morbid bodily habit. If then, it is advisable to eat 
sufficiently, alimentation should be jproportional to our needs and 
regulated not only by our natural appetite but by our reason, 
aided, when necessary, by observation and science and not 
accommodated to bad habits or artificial stimuli. 

375 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Influence of Regimens on the Characters of Individiials and Races. 
— If alimentation acts on the general health by reason of its scanti- 
ness or excess, it acts on us stiU more perhaps by its nature. It 
is universally notorious that the most active, the most robust, 
and the most aggressive people are great meat -eaters. I shall 
only quote the English and the Germans. Granivorous and fru- 
givorous nations are nearly always peaceful, such as the greater 
part of the nations of Central Asia, for whom rice and vegetables, 
with a little pork or fish, form almost solely the whole food. One 
cannot help couphng with these facts the remark that carnivor- 
ous animals are generally fierce and dangerous, whilst the her- 
bivora, on the contrary, are easy to live with and to domesticate. 
More or less exclusive carnivorous aHmentation is, to a greater 
extent even than race, one of the factors of the gentle or violent 
character of an individual. It is known tliat the white rats of 
our laboratories, as long as they are fed on bread or grain, are very 
manageable and easy to tame, wliUst they become snappy and 
given to biting from the time they are fed on flesh. The same 
observations have been made in the case of a horse and even of a 
dog, although the latter is omnivorous. Liebig relates that a 
bear kept at the museum at Giessen was gentle and quiet when 
it was fed exclusively on bread and vegetables, but a few days 
of animal diet caused it to become fierce and dangerous to its 
keeper. They used to amuse themselves by thus periodically 
altering the animal's character. It is known, adds Liebig, that 
the irascibility of pigs may be increased by a meat diet to such an 
extent as to cause them to attack men {Nouvelles lettres sur 
la chimie ; 35th Letter). 

A carnivorous regimen then certainly influences personality ; 
it makes us more aggressive, harder, more self-wiUed. I am 
not speaking of its bad influence on the general health, which 
I shaU treat of later on a propos of exclusive regimens, my 
only object here being to show its special action on the moral 
quahties. 

Reciprocally, it is certain that a diet too exclusively vegetable 
weakens the violence of temperaments and softens manners. 
This has been weU understood by aU founders of religious orders 
both in Europe and in India, who limited or prohibited foods of 
animal origin. We liave seen that vegetable food is less com- 
pletely assimilated ; it imposes on the animal a far more power- 
ful intestinal work which diverts part of its disposable energy 
to the accomphshment of these lower functions, it introduces 
into the system, far less than meats, those bitter bases, those sapid 
extractive matters which are stimuli of the heart, the circulation 
in muscle and mechanical energy. It is then manifest that an 
alimentation too exclusively vegetable perceptibly weakens and 
softens the will. Food is perhaps sufficient to transform the 

376 



I 



REGIMEN OF INTELLECTUALS 

wolf and wild cat, some of the most dangerous carnivorous 
animals, into the domestic dog and cat. 

If diet acts thus on the development of the organs and char- 
acter, it is impossible to deny that it also modifies races. La- 
marck and Darwin were of opinion that alimentation which creates 
internal conditions was, with the influence exercised by external 
conditions, and selection, the preponderant cause of the varia- 
tions observed in animals and plants. Without sharing this 
opinion, for reasons I have stated at length elsewhere {Revue 
generate des sciences, Dec. 15, 1901, p. 1,046), I believe how- 
ever, that the qualities peculiar to each individual and each 
race are perceptibly influenced by the continuous action of ali- 
mentary regimens, and reciprocally when habits are contracted 
and temperaments created by a long heredity, special regimens 
often become necessary to races thus modified. An Englishman 
or Dutchman becomes weakened by being deprived of meat far 
more quickly than a Spaniard, Southern Frenchman or Italian, 
and these latter when fed on the same food, if it is almost exclu- 
sively vegetable, will do much more work than a member of the 
northern races. 

Influence of Diet on Mental Effort and of the Latter on the 
Digestive Functions. — The infiuence of diet on the physical vigour 
and character of races brings with it, as a consequence, its action 
on intellectual aptitudes. We have learned that man in order 
to do mechanical work, has need not only of an alimentation 
abundant in ternary principles, but especially rich in meat. 
This regimen, which develops muscular force, energy, vigour, 
even violence is, on the contrary, not very favourable to the 
culture of artistic or scientific aptitudes. To those who give 
themselves up to the speculations of thought, who require to 
exercise their power of observation or generalization, to develop 
or express their artistic sentiments, to cultivate abstract sciences, 
etc., bread, green vegetables, ripe fruit, a little wine, and for nitro- 
genous food 150 to 200 grms. of meat, fish and poultry per day, 
eggs, milk and other foods easily digested (rice, carrots, cauli- 
flower, asparagus, mushrooms, a small quantity of potatoes, 
etc.) and finally a few aromatic condiments such as coft'ee, tea, 
etc., are more suitable than diets too essentially carnivorous. 
And the more so because those who devote themselves to works 
of the mind or imagination, generally take insufficient physical 
exercise, thus constituting themselves candidates for arthritis, 
gout, hepatic, cerebral and renal congestions. Such predis- 
positions are often again increased in their case by the abuse of 
coffee or tea, sometimes of alcohol or tobacco, and the desire for 
condiments which momentarily excite the appetite which seden- 
tary work tends to weaken. For them the dishes to avoid are 
those which are difficult to digest or which require to be taken 

377 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

in a great quantity, too abundant meats, too starchy vegetables 
(dry beans, lentils, broad beans, etc.). 

In the case of all those in whom sentiments, artistic impressions, 
researches of the imagination, the speculations of ambition or public 
affairs predominate, the alimentary allowance should be that 
which corresponds to their feeble corporeal activity and to the 
cUmate in which they live, as psychic manifestations, we have seen, 
do not correspond to any sensible loss. Beyond all doubt, all brain 
work consumes energy corresponding to the effort made to put the 
sensorial machine in a fit state to receive an impression, trans- 
form it into a physical shape, and finally present it to the 
inner sense. All brain work causes then a real loss of energy felt 
and known by all those who know how to observe themselves. 
Every impression, besides, as Moritz Schiff has directly demon- 
strated, heats the brain and the organism and causes, as a conse- 
quence, an expenditure of energy. But this expenditure is so 
small that it is imperceptible from the alimentary point of view. 
In fact it has been recognized that intellectual fatigue does not 
increase either the quantity of the total urinary nitrogen and 
consequently the quantum of albuminoids broken up or the 
combustion of fats,* or even the weight of the phosphorus 
excreted in a given time. 

A last remark : Intellectual work should never be undertaken 
during a meal nor at the beginning of digestion, when the organ- 
ism requires that the blood should flow not to the brain, but to 
the stomach.^ 

Variations of Diet with Mechanical Work. — This important 
question has been already discussed at length in Part I of this 
work with reference to the variations of the food allowance in 
the case of a man doing nothing and at work (p. 88 seq). The 
next chapter will also give information concerning the 
variations of diet for workmen in different cUmates. 

Variations of Alimentation according to the Height and Weight of 
the Body. — In order to render proportional the alimentary allow- 
ance to the height and weight of the body, it will be necessary to 
remember that in Part I of this book it was estabUshed (p. 98), that 
in a state of repose or simple maintenance, about 72 hundredths of 
the virtual energy stored up with foods, are scattered at the sur- 
face of the body under the form of heat radiated or lost by con- 

1 Speck, Arch. f. exp. Pathol, u. Pharm., Bd. XV, p. 81; C. Voit, Zeitsch. 
f. Biolog., Bd. XIV, p. 57. 

2 Dxiring sleep, the destruction of the nitrogenous principles of our 
tissues does not appear to vary ; but that of the fatty bodies becomes 
greatly enfeebled without the amount of oxygen absorbed always dimin- 
ishing in proportion. There is often an accumulation of oxygen in the 
B3^tem during the night's rest, especisdly in the case of young children 
(Made. Bres ; Ch. Bouchard). 

378 



VARIATIONS OF ALIMENTATION 

duction, and 28 hundredths are transformed into different work 
or thrown off in the form of latent heat of vaporization with the 
water expired or perspired. Now this last part of the energy 
lost is proportional to the weight W of the individual function- 
ing, the heat lost by radiation is (all other things remaining equal) 
proportional to the surface of the body S. 

Supposing ourselves placed in normal conditions of health, 
let us represent by m the heat lost per unit of the surface of the 
body S expressed in square decimetres, and by n the heat lost at 
the same time (or energy expended) per unit of weight W expressed 
in kilogrammes, we shall have, representing by C the quantity 
of heat corresponding to the total energy expended, during a 
period of twenty-four hours for example : — 

{a) mS+ nW = C. 

We know also that, between the energy mS radiated by the 
surface'and that nW lost under the form of work, heat of vaporiz- 
ation, etc., the following experimental relation exists : — 

,,, mS 72. 
^^^ r^=28 

On the other hand, for normal or average cases, it is 
possible for us to know the habitual relation between the 
weight of the body and its surface. Professor Bordier has, at 
my request, kindly studied this relation, and the following are 
the results which he has obtained with adults by his integraiure 
de surface^: — 



1 M. Ch. Bouchard (C. Rend. Acad. Sciences, t. CIV, p. 844) gives for the 
normal man the following formula which endeavours to connect the weight 
of the body W, expressed in kilogrammes with the surface S, expressed 
in square decimetres, with the height T and the circumference C. 



W / P 

For man : S = 0, 48 CH + 8, 33 ^ + 3,47 H W g-j^jj 

W 7 P~ 

For woman .-8 = 0, 48CH + 6, 44 ^ + 3,03H a/ g ^^ ^ 



This formula applies particularly to subjects of normal corpulence. 

W W 

Tx = 4-2 for man and—- =3-9 for woman. 

Meeh's formula which connects the surface S with the weight W of the 

individual is S = K A/ W- ; this formula is inexact, the surface varying 

* o 
very perceptibly with the size in the human species. The coefficient K 
is about 41. 

379 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Relations obsebved between the Size, Weight and Subfaoe of the 
Human Body by Pkof. Bobdibb. 



Height. 


Total Surface S la 
sq. decimetres. 


Average of 
Besults. 


Weigiit W. 


Average of 
Weights. 


W 

Relation — 

S 


m. 
1-79 
1-75 1 
1-74 
1-70 
1-70 
1-70 
1-66 
1-65 
1-60 ^ 
1-60 2 
1-60 2 
1-55 1 
1-55 1 


s:[. dm. 
194-45 
194-20 1 
193-40 / 
188-14 ^ 
180-72 I 
172-92 J 
169-67 1 
167-10 / 
168-14 ^ 
175-00 I 
171-00 J 
159-92 ^ 
162-46 / 


193-8 

180-3 

168-4 

171 

161-2 


kgs. 
73-500 
80 1 
70 f 

69 ] 
66-500 } 
65-700 J 

70 ) 

60 / 
60-800 ) 
61-500 f 

61 ) 
53-300 I 
57-800 i 


kgs. 
73-500 

75 

67-1 

65 

61-1 

55-5 


0-377 
0-386 

0-366 

0-386 

0-357 

0-350 

■ 






General average 0-370 



We see that if the surface S is expressed in square decimetres 
and the weight W in kilogrammes, the above figures give the 
average value : — 

W 

(c) g=0-37 

(with some slight variations between 0-35 and 0-38). 

Having learnt (p. 61) that in the state of normal mainten- 
ance the energy C is equal to about 2,400 Calories, we shall obtain 
from the three equations (a), (6) and (c) : — - 

ri = 10-lCals. 
w- 9-586 Cals. 

Thus the average energy w, expressed in Calories, lost by man 
in a state of maintenance in the form of mechanical ivork or 
of latent heat of Vaporization of water per kilogramme of body 
weight, is 10- 1 Calories, and that which is lost at the same time by 
radiation or conduction and per square decimetre of surface m, is 
equal to 9-59 Calories. 

Knowing these coefficients, if-we refer to the table of averages 
resulting from the measurements of M. Bordier, it will be quite 
easy to find the number of Calories x necessary to the main- 
tenance of a man of weight W. For 75 kgs., for example, we 
shall have according to the equation (a) : — 

9-59 Cals. X 193-8 + 10- 1x75 = x; whence a; = 2,615 Calories. 

For the weight W = 65 kgs., we shaU find :— 

X = 2,271. 

1 For two difiEerent subjects. ^ pot three different subjects. 

380 



VARIATIONS OF ALIMENTATION 

According to the number given (p. 98) for the working 
adult, we should calculate in the same way the value of m and n 
in the case in which the adult gave himseK up to mechanical work, 
knowing that in this second case 60-3 per cent, of the energy is 
lost by radiation, and consequently increases proportionally to 
the surface, and 39-7 per cent, are proportional no longer to the 
surface but to the body weight.^ 

Practically, the weight and the surface of the human body are 
far from being in proportion to the height ; the more the latter 
diminishes, the more is the surface relatively increased and con- 
sequently, the alimentary needs. Small people eat, then, more 
than big for a Hke weight ; they also excrete a greater quantity 
of carbonic acid by the skin and lungs (Ch. Richet), they consume 



' M. Ch. Richet has estabUshed in a remarkable way that the loss in 
calorific energy of animals, and consequently their need of food to a great 
extent (72 per cent, in the case of man), is proportional not to the weight 
of the body, but to its surface. Here are some figures for rabbits {Chaleur 
animale, Paris, 1889 ; pp. 220, 221). 











Calories per kg. 
per d.ay. 


Calories lost per 

square decimetre of 

surface. 


Rabbits 


weigh 


ng500 


grms. . 


' 5495 


11-8 


jj 




2100 




4730 


113 








2300 




3985 


10-9 








2500 




3820 


lO-S 








2700 




3650 


105 








2900 




3570 • 


106 




J 




3100 




3320 ' • 


101 




' 




3600 




2690 


— 



By comparing a certain number of observations quoted by MM. Ch. 
Richet and Lapicque, it is possible to draw up for the human species the 
following table of the average expenditure of calories in relation to a 
kilogramme of weight of the subjects and to their surface. 



Weight of 
Subjects. 



Calories per 
kg. per 
24 hours. 



Calories per 

sq. decimetre 

of surface. 



Child (Riibner) ' 11-8 kgs. 

23-7 „ 

Young man (Riibner) . . . . ; 40-4 „ 

Man 67 yrs. old , 67-0 „ 

Workman (Voit and Pettenkoffer) . 70-0 „ 

Japanese student 46 „ 

„ soldier 59 „ 

Subject 2 of Lapicque and Marette 73 „ 



81-5 Cals. 13-43 Cals. 



59-5,^ 

52-1* 

42- 4 j 

43-2 

51.2" 

43-6) 

41-51 



13-89 
14-52 
13-99 
14-70 
14-30 
13-80 
14-20 



We see that with man, the need in calories varies per kilogramme of the 
body from simple to double ; that, on the contrary, this need is almost 
constant if it is compared with the surface. It would be about thirteen 
to fourteen calories per square decimetre of surface according to these 
numbers, which are evidently too high. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

more oxygen and appear to have need of a greater relative quantity 
of albuminoid substances. Riibner has somewhat arbitrarily 
drawn up the table of calories necessary to the adult according 
to the weight of the body if he is neither thin nor fat : — 



Weight of Body in 
kilogrammes. 


Energetic value of Foods 
in calories per day. 


Calories per 
kilogramme. 


50 
60 

70 

80 


2472 
2792 
3094 
3372 


49-4 
46-5 
42-2 
421 



All these figures of Riibner are too high, especially if they are 
applied to fat people with whom the nutritive exchanges are 
less powerful than with the thin, and who are usually less active. 
They should, we consider, be reduced from 9 to 15 per cent, 
according to the degree of stoutness of the individual and 
to his habits. 

It is certain that the necessary alimentary energy per kilo- 
gramme of body weight to maintain functional activity varies 
with the weight of the subject and diminishes very notably in 
proportion as this weight increases. In subsequently calculating 
the average number of calories consumed per day and per kilo- 
gramme by subjects weighing 70 kgs., Riibner found 2,303 calories, 
that is about 33 calories per kilogramme. In making the same 
calculation for subjects weighing on an average 65 kgs. I have 
myself found 2,500, that is 37 calories per kilogramme of body 
weight in our temperate climates. 

M. Bordier's table (p. 380) and other analogous calculations 
show that between the ages of twenty and thirty a man normally 
weighs, in kilogrammes, nearly the number indicated by his height 
expressed in centimetres, minus 105. Thus a man of 165 centi- 
metres in height should weigh about 60 kgs. But observation 
proves that a normal individual may lose a tenth of his height 
(6 kgs. in this case) without wasting, the loss being at the 
expense solely of the fat and water of his tissues, very little 
at the expense of his flesh. Reciprocally he may increase by a 
tenth of his normal weight without tending to become obese. 
For the height of 1-65 m. we shall have then : — 

Normal weight i ... 60 kgs. 

Minimum weight . . .60 kgr. — 6 =54. „ 

Maximum weight . . . 60 ,, +6 =66. „ 

Regimens should be in proportion to the normal weight of the 
individuals with these considerations taken into account. 

1 Weight taken in the morning t^feisting, after having emptied the 
bladder and the intestine. 

382 



I 



VARIATIONS OF ALIMENTATION 

The preceding calculations, which endeavour to connect regimen 
with the height and weight of individuals, refer only to the adult. 
They do not apply either to a child or to an adolescent, either to 
the old or to a woman. Of the regimen of these people we shall 
treat shortly. 

Variations of Regimen according to Climate and Season. — In cold 
climates and seasons the heat radiated, and loss of heat by breath- 
ing being greater, a richer alimentation for the same amount of 
external work is necessarily required ; and reciprocally, a poorer 
alimentation will suffice in a warm country. And as it is the 
heat radiated or rendered latent by evaporation of the water 
from the lungs or of sweat, which diminishes the proportion of 
energy at disposal and capable of being transformed into work, 
it follows that each time this loss by cooling is slight, the individ- 
ual will be able to live, discharge his functions and work equally 
well with a smaller alimentation. I have seen, for example, 
some Catalonians live on a regimen which provided them with no 
more than 1,900 to 2,000 Calories. They were none the less good 
tempered, healthy and muscular and did a great amount of work. 

During his voyage on La Semiramis, M. Lapicque ^ estimated 
the food of the Abyssinians of Ghinder (altitude — 900 metres) 
living in an average temperature of about 17°, at 50 grms. of 
albuminoids, 30 grms. of fats and 360 grms. of starchy or sugar 
substances per day for men of an average weight of 52 kgs., 
which gives 1,950 Calories gross (or 1,823 utUizable), that is about 
38 Calories per kilogramme per twenty-four hours. In the lower 
regions of Abyssinia, at Massaouah, in the average temperature 
of our summer, working men received 2,200 Calories per day 
(rectified calculation) : subtracting only 400 Calories for average 
work, there remain 1,700 Calories for maintenance allowance, 
that is 32 Calories per kilogramme per day. In Singapore, 
servants and Javanese paddlers received per day food corre- 
sponding to 2,050 Calories for an average weight of 52-6 kgs. If 
we subtract 400 Calories for indispensable current work, 1,650 
Calories remain for the maintenance allowance, that is 31 
Calories per kilogramme per day in this very warm climate. 
The quantity of albuminoids in their maintenance allowance 
did not perceptibly exceed 1 grm., and the ternary substances 
45 grms. per kilogramme of body weight, when they were not 
working, and 6 to 7 grms. when they were working (Lapicque). 

In a course of very interesting researches entitled Influence 
des climats et des saisons sur les defenses de Vorganisme chez 
Vhomme^ Prof. Maurel, of Toulouse, arrives at the following 
conclusions : — 

1 BuU. Soc. biologie, March 4, 1893 and Feb. 3, 1894. 

* Soe Archives de medecine navale, t. LXXIV, p. 366, t. LXXV, pp. 5, 81. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

In intertropical countries the maintenance allowance is almost 
five- sixths of that of temperate climates. 

For the maintenance allowance in our climate, the quantity of 
assimilable nitrogenous matters in the allowance should not fall 
below 1-2 grms. per kilogramme. It should remain about 1 grm. 
in intertropioal climates. 

The fatty bodies should never exceed 1 grm. per kilogramme 
of the weight of the body, especially in hot climates. 

Starchy bodies and sugars rise from 3-8 grms. to 4 grms, in 
these same climates. 

Alcohol, even in such beverages as wine, cider and beer, should 
not exceed 40 to 50 grms. per day. 

Moderate vxxrk increases by about one-sixth the losses corre- 
sponding to the maintenance allowance. 

The hot season of hot countries corresponds to average tempera- 
tures of 25° to 30° (Lowlands of Guiana, Antilles). 

The cool season of the intertropical zone and hot season of the 
temperate countries give a monthly average of 20° to 25° (winters 
of Senegal, Madagascar, Tonkin, Laos). 

The summer of cold countries, or the average season of temperate 
countries, corresponds to an average of 10° to 20° (France, 
Central Europe, Algeria in winter). 

The unnters of the temperate zone and the intermediate season 
of cold countries have an average temperature of 5° to 10°. 

The winter of cold countries corresponds to a monthly average 
lower than +5°. 

Here is the table given by M. Maurel for the maintenance 
allowance in hot seasons and hot countries, the cold season and 
cold countries, and finally the intermediate climates : — 

Matntena^tce Allowance according to Climates. 





Number of 

Calories 
per kilogrm. 


Calories per 24 hours : Man 


Climate and Seasons. 


weighing 
60kgs. 


weighing 
70 kgs. 


weighing 
80 kgs. 


Hot season of hot countries . 

Cold season of hot countries 
and summer of temperate 
countries 

Intermediate season of tem- 
perate countries and sum- 
mer of cold countries 

Cold season of temperate 
countries and intermediate 
season of cold countries 

Cold season of cold countries 


30 
35 

40 

45 

50 


Calories 
1800 
2100 

2400 

2700 

3000 


Calories 
2100 
2450 

2800 

3150 

3500 


Calories 
2400 
2800 

3200 

3600 

4000 



For the best application of these data, the weight of the sub- 

384 



VARIATIONS OF ALIMENTATION 

jects should be normal, that is to say equal in kilogrammes to 
that of the height reckoned in centimetres, diminished by 105, 
from the age of 20 to 30, and by 100 from 40 to 60. For the 
allowance for work, the number of calories should be augmented 
from 400 to 1,400 according to the cases. 

In cold climates, where muscular exercise becomes a necessity, 
meat should form a part of the regimen, in a quantity relatively 
more abundant and to a greater degree in proportion as more 
work is performed. If needful, man may in this case consume 
with advantage a certain proportion of alcoholic liquors. 

Liebig, in order to give an account of these facts which had 
been incompletely studied in his time (1843), had advanced his 
theory called that of the plastic and respiratory foods, a theory 
too absolute, it is true, but of which we must retain one part : 
"as long as blood contains with its albuminoids," he said, 
" matters having a great affinity for oxygen, this agent could 
not exercise its destructive action on the essential principles of 
our tissues. . . . Starch, sugar and fat serve to preserve the organs 
and to maintain the temperature of the body. . . . Whilst the 
nitrogenous principles of the foods preserve the organs and thus 
maintain the production of energy, the non-nitrogenous principles 
maintain respiration and heat. These last are then agents of 
respiration. ... As the faculty which bodies possess of evolving 
heat by their union with oxygen depends on the proportion of 
their combustible elements to equal weights, it is easy to calcu- 
late approximately the value of these bodies as producers of 
heat. ... Of all the agents of respiration fat is the best, and 
muscular tissue the worst." (J. Liebig Lettres sur la chimie, 
French translation, pp. 141, 148.) 

Such is Liebig's opinion on this interesting point. He does 
not say that muscle while acting and being consumed does 
not produce heat, but only that it is of all foods the one which 
produces the least ; that if we are trying to produce heat it is to 
the fatty matters and carbo-hydrates that we should turn ; 
and that, on the contrary, it is to the nitrogenous matters 
that we must revert if we wish to obtain work. As has been 
seen, these conclusions are not accurate, for we know to day 
that work is a form of energy which is actually derived from all 
parts of the foods, nitrogenous and especially non-nitrogenous. 
But the meat consumed in order to produce this work having 
above all the role of stimulating and regenerating tlie muscle, re- 
mains, as Liebig remarked, rather a plastic than a respiratory food. 

Thus when during a cold season or in a glacial climate it is a 
question of resisting the cold, it is the ternary foods, especially 
the fats and alcohol itself, which a universal instinct increases 
in the alimentation. We know that the Esquimaux and Green- 
lander, when possible, drink with relish several litres of fish oil 

385 CC 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

per day, and that in winter cruises and fishing expeditions in the 
North Sea, alcohol becomes an almost indispensable food to the 
sailor. Reciprocally, in tropical climates and hot seasons, fats, 
these great producers of heat, form instinctively only a small 
part of the daily ration, and water slightly sweetened and acidu- 
lated takes the place of alcoholic liquors. In these hot climates, 
on account of the abundant evaporation which takes place from 
the surface of the body, and which maintains the temperature of 
the organs at 38°, the regimen is instinctively enriched by her- 
baceous foods, acidulous fruits, and aqueous beverages which 
make up for the water evaporated by the skin to refresh the blood 
etc. ; to these very hght foods may be added as a sort of 
constant factor the proportion of proteid matters which are 
indispensable to the maintenance of the tissues. What is neces- 
sary in these climates is to avoid too fatty or too starchy foods, 
to partially abstain from fermented liquors and particularly 
from pure alcohol which, with the excess of nitrogenous foods, 
would lead much more rapidly than in cold climates, where 
they are utilized at once, to congestions of the brain and liver. 
But, and this is interesting, for the same habits, the same occu- 
pations, and an analogous yield in work, the workman consumes 
almost the same proportion of proteid matters and takes nearly 
the same quantity of them from animals and plants, whether 
the climates he cold and damp or hot and dry. Only the rate of 
ternary principles rises in cold climates. This is particularly 
demonstrated by the facts which I have summed up in the 
following table, relating to agricultural labourers in the coldest 
and hottest parts of France. We have already stated the same 
facts for workmen of other countries (p. 93 seq.). 
Agkicultubal Labouheks of the Department du Noed (France) 

ACCORDING TO GaSPARIN. 

Per Day. Albuminoids. Fats. Carbo-hydrates. 

Of animal origin . 29-3 grms. . . 99-8 grms. . . 1005-7 grms. 

Of vegetable origin . 128-1 „ . . 20-1 „ . . 14-3 „ 



Totals . . . 157-4 grms. 119-9 grms. 1020-0 grms. 

AORICULTtTRAL LABOURERS OF THE SoUTH OF FRANCE (NaRBONNE) 
ACCORDING TO THE AtTTHOR. 

Of animal origin . 27-0 grms. . . 39 grms. . . 737-9 grms. 
Of vegetable origin . 130-3 „ . . 46-9 „ . . 1-2 „ 



157-3 grms. 85-9 grms. 739-1 grms. 

Thus, living in very different climates, the agricultural labourers 
of the neighbourhood of Lille consume 157 grms. of alimentary 
albumin per day, like those in the neighbourhood of Narbonne ; 
but, on the other hand, the former resist their cold and rainy 
climate by adding to their ration 315 grms. of fatty and starchy 
substances more than the latter. For the Astrakan carpenter (see 

386 



VARIATIONS OF ALIMENTATION 

pp. 94 and 95) 144 grms. of albuminoids per day are sufficient, but 
he also requires 766 grms. of ternary matters, not inclvding alcohol. 
The peasant of Prasnysz (Northern Russia) requires only 135 
grms. of albumin in the winter, but his ration contains then 
955 grms. of ternary matters, still subtracting alcoholic drinks 
(Smolensky). The German wood-cutter of Liebig is contented 
with 135 grms. of albuminoids per day, but he receives (not includ- 
ing fermented drinks) 1,084 grms. of fatty or starchy principles. 
It is then these principles, and particularly the fats, which man 
instinctively accumulates in his regimen when he has to resist 
cold. As to mechanical work, it is provided to a great extent by 
fatty bodies and starchy substances, but not entirely, for the 
albuminoids in the allowance increase with work although much 
less than the ternary bodies, and not in proportion to the fall in 
temperature or to the glacial climate, but rather to the fatigue 
of the workman. And even, according to the figures published 
by Russian authors, it is in summer and not in winter that 
the peasant consumes the most meat and fish. 

These facts of observation, collected apart from all preconceived 
theories, agree well with those determined by experiments in the 
laboratory. A man weighing 76 kgs. fasting and at rest, 
excreted the following quantities of carbonic acid and urinary 
nitrogen, while living six hours successively in the gradually 
decreasing temperatures which are indicated here : — 



Temperature. 


C02 eliminated. 


Total nitrogen of the Urine. 


27° 
24° 
16° 

9° 

4° 


160-0 grms. 
164-8 „ 
158-0 „ 
192-0 „ 
210-7 „ 


4-0 grms. 
3-4 „ 
4-0 „ 
4-2 „ 
4-2 „ 



In proportion, then, as the surrounding conditions become 
cool, a man does not lose sensibly more of nitrogenous substances, 
and consequently does not consume more of them, but he burns 
more and more carbon, borrowed from ternary matters, which 
disappear proportionally to the cooling of the surrounding con- 
ditions, matters, the need of which, in consequence, is felt more 
and more if the temperatures of the surroundings diminish 
progressively. It seems, however, that the remark has been 
made that for equal weight and equal work the inhabitants of 
tropical countries eat nearly as much as those of cold climates 
(Eykmann, Lapicque). The enormous evaporation by the skin 
in very hot climates, would perhaps explain the necessity for an 
alimentation which is sufficient to make up for this loss of latent 
heat. 

387 



XXXV 

ADAPTATION OF REGIMEN TO AGE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE INDI- 
VIDUAL — IDIOSYNCRASIES 

BY constantly keeping our eyes upon the adaptation of diet 
to the circumstances in which the healthy individual lives 
and develops, we find other conditions than those of the surround- 
ings, of climate, of need for the production of mechanical or 
intellectual work, of the weight of the subject, racial customs, 
etc., which necessitate special regimens. Age and sex lead to 
very important modifications in alimentation from birth to old 
age. 

The child discharges his functions and breaks up compounds 
more actively than the adult. It needs for an equal weight more 
air, more albuminoids and more fats because it gives off, per 
kilogramme of body weight, more carbonic acid ; it produces more 
urea and more heat, as the following table indicates : — 



Age of Subject. 


Average weight 
of Body. 


Urea per day 
and kilogramme. 


€02 per kilo- 
granmie. 




{Camerer.) 


(Scharling). 


7 months 


7 kgs. 


_ 


_ 


. 18 „ 


9 „ 


1-35 


— 


3 years 


13 




0-9 


— 


5 » 


16 




0-76 


— 


7 „ 


19 




0-74 


20-0 


9-10 „ 


25 




0-69 


15-00 


13-15 „ 


33 




0-60 


1416 


16 „ 


36-45 




0-50 


12-7 


19 „ 


56 




— 


— 


25-30 „ 


65-70 




0-50 


— 


35 „ 


65-70 




— 


12-0 grm. 



In trying to fit alimentation to the losses of the system, Fliigge 
has been able to estimate, as follows, the alimentary necessities 
at the various ages of life : — 



388 



J 



REGIMEN OF THE NEWLY BORN 



Necessaky Alimentary Principles according to Age. 











Av. weight 

of Body in 

kilogrammes. 


Per day and 


per kilogramme of weight. 


Calculated 
in Calories 

per 
kilogrm. 




Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 




kgrs. 


grms. 


grms. 


grms. 




End of the 1st week 


3-5 


3-7 


43 


4-4 


73-20 


5th month . 


7-6 


4-5 


4-8 


5-6 


86-02 


12th „ 








9-6 


4-0 


4-0 


8-0 


86-40 


18th „ 








10-8 


4-0 


4-0 


9-0 


90-5 


2nd year 








12 


4 


3-5 


10-0 


89-9 


4th 








151 


3-8 


3-0 


10-0 


84-5 


6th 








18-0 


3-1 


2-2 


10-0 


74-2 


10th „ 








26-1 


2-5 


1-6 


9-0 


61-0 


14th „ 








40-5 


2-0 


1-0 


7-5 


48-3 


20th „ 








65-0 


1-8 


0-9 


6-0 


44-5 



Alimentation then, in infancy and adolescence, ought to be 
intensive. It ought also to be specialized at different ages, as will 
now be shown. 

Regimen of ike Newly Born. — The best regimen for the newly born 
child is maternal suckling. Moreover it needs to be normal and 
regularly conducted. The young child should be suckled during 
the first weeks every two hours, then every three hours during the 
day and twice again during the night. Consequently, in all, 
during twenty-four hours, suckled eight times with about 80 grms. 
each time for the first month, with 100 grms. the second, 120 grms. 
the third, and 140 to 150 grms. from the fourth to the sixth month. 
At least twice every day the weight of the milk should be verified, 
and once a week, at least, the weight of the child should be taken. 
During the two or three first months, it should gain from 28 to 34 
grms. per twenty-four hours. 

I have stated (p. 178) what were the exterior characteristics of 
good nurses. The best age is from twenty-one to thirty-one years. 
Above all they ought not to carry any mark or stigma of syphilis, 
scrofula, saturnism or of tuberculosis. Their milk should be 
abundant, gushing out of the nipples under slight pressure and 
in several jets. It ought to be creamy and not present under the 
microscope too many white globules. 

In default of woman's milk, we should, when possible, have 
recourse to ass's milk, and better still to that of a mare. It should 
be unboiled and collected with all the antiseptic care possible 
(washing the udders and rubbing the hands with soap, then with 
boiled borated water and with pure boiled water ; sterilization 
of the jars and glasses, etc.) Infants may be induced to take this 
milk either in a teaspoon or, which is better, in a cup, in small 
draughts. 

If it is not possible to obtain ass's or mare's milk, it is better 
to have cow's milk rather than goat's, which is too rich in casein 
and butter, too fragrant, too different from human milk in its 

389 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

constitution and the special nature of its proteids. This milk must 
be obtained from a healthy cow, 3 or 4 years old, having calved 
at least two months. It must be mixed with its volume, or haK its 
volume (according to the greater or less age of the child) of a 
solution of 5 parts of sugar of mUk, if necessary saccharose, in 100 
parts of boiled water. Tliis mixture of mUk and sweetened water 
should be sterilized at 100° in a water hath in one of the special 
apparatus already described (p. 187) and heated to boiling point 
15 to 20 minutes before being given lukewarm to the cliild. Each 
bottle thus sterihzed should contain the amount of one suckling, 
say 100 to 120 cc. The nursling should receive daily from 175 
to 180 grms. of milk per kilogramme of weight. 

Good milk sterilized at home, and commercial sterilized milk 
of good brands (provided tliis latter be not too old) is easier to 
digest than fresh unboiled milk. But this has been accused of 
constipating infants and rendering them anaemic and pale. It 
is sometimes necessary to give to these puffy babies a Httle raw 
pulped meat. The objection that boiled and sterilized mUk 
loses its salts of Ume, the citrate precipitating and disappearing by 
boiling, is purely theoretical. 

Riibner and Heubner have remarked that if the child receives 
an insufficient quantity of nourishment, it only loses its fat, 
whilst it continues to fix the albuminoids, and its flesh increases 
in weight. 

For children fed artificially from their birth, Biedert advises 
200 grms. of a mixture composed of 1 part of cow's milk, 3 parts 
of decoction of oats and 4 grms. of sugar being given daily, per 
kilogramme of weight, during the first two months. This mixture 
would correspond, per litre, to 9 grms. of albuminoid substances, 
9 grms. of fats and 50 grms. of sugar, and furnish 326 Calories. 

Heubner prefers to add to 2 volumes of milk 1 volume of decoc- 
tion of flour of wheat or oats (a coffee spoon of these flours per 
250 cc. of water). Of this mixture, the child is given : — 

During the 1st month ..... 600 cc. per day 
From the 4th to the 8th week . . . 800 cc. „ „ 

From the 8th week onwards . . . 900 cc. „ „ 

After the 3rd month . . . . .1 Utre „ „ 

Heubner's mixture corresponds to 595 Calories per litre. 
This quantity then will provide a child of three months, weighing on 
an average 6 kgs., with about 100 Calories per kilogramme per day 
instead of 40 which the adult receives, that is to say more than 
double ; but we know (Ch. Richet, Trav. du laboratoire, t. I 
Eecherches de calorimetrie) that the child loses per kilogramme 
per day 96 Calories, while the adult only loses 42, figures which well 
correspond to the preceding. 

The possibility of thus feeding the nursling artificially and 
without too much danger to him, removes the importance of this 

390 



I 



ALIMENTATION OF CHILDREN 



question : Can an invalid mother continue to suckle her child ? 
We shall reply no, if it can be done otherwise, or if the malady 
is grave, the milk exhausted, thin, insufficient ; no, if the child 
does not increase in weight, if it has green diarrhoea ; yes, in 
the case of a passing febrile complaint, and if the mother and child 
do not suffer too much from it and only temporarily. 

To the child who remains at the breast, may be given, starting 
from the seventh month, either cow's milk diluted with water, 
sterilized by heat and slightly sweetened, or light broths, lacteal 
flours, and other mixtures of concentrated milk with torrefied and 
pulverized bread, various flours, a Uttle cocoa, etc. He may also 
be allowed panadas of toasted and grated bread accompanied 
by a little fresh butter or yolk of egg. The use of these preparations 
is increased from month to month untU weaning, which then comes 
about gradually and of itself, from the twelfth to the eighteenth 
month, according to the seasons. 

At this time the child may be given sterilized or boiled cow's 
milk, sugared or salted, in which, when warm, are mixed flour of 
oats, wheat, barley, feculae of rice, arrowroot, the pulp of potato, 
lightly roasted in the oven, rusks in powder, etc. We then go on 
to yolks of eggs boiled or mixed with milk. 

Prof. Maurel, of Toulouse, fixed the allowance of nourishment 
during the first four months at 75 Calories per kilogramme, which 
amounts to about 102grms. of cow's milk, per kilogramme of weight 
per day. M. G. Variot, as a result of his observations on the chil- 
dren in the dispensary at Belleville, gives the following figures 
for the alimentation of the child with sterilized cow's milk : — 



Per Day. 


Pure MUk, 


Per Day. 


Pure Milk. 


Ist week 


240 grms. 


^ This milk must be 


3rd month 


960grms. 


2nd „ 


360 „ 


l diluted with J of 


4th „ . . 


1080 „ 


3rd „ 


415 „ 


j boiled water 


5th „ . . 


1280 „ 


4th „ 


545 „ 


^ This milk must be 


7th „ . . 


1440 „ 


6th „ 


672 „ 


[diluted with J of 9th-12th month 


1600 „ 


2nd month 


758 „ 


J boiled water 





Give the bottle every 2 hours during the first weeks, every 2^ 
hours from the second to the fourth month, and then every 3 hours. 
I must add here that I have seen some children, from 20 months 
to 2 years, with whom milk diet did not agree, who refused all 
alimentation in the form of milky or vegetable broths, who became 
weak and thin and who, put on a diet of soups made from boiled 
or grated roast or raw meat, took it with avidity and increased in 
weight from that time. One sees that it is not possible to have 
regimens with too arbitrary rules even for children. 

Children from Two to Fifteen years old. — These facts, as well as 
the observation of the results of alimentation followed apart from 

391 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

all preconceived theory, lead me to think that if milk ought to be 
made the foundation of the feeding of the child in the first two or 
three years of its life, muscular tissue may and ou^ht to he given 
to him,, cooked or raw, from the middle of the second year althouxjh in 
a very moderate quantity : roast mutton or lamb, beef, minced ham, 
rather than veal or chicken, with the addition of boiled or buttered 
eggs, creams and paps, rice, vermicelli in soups, butter, thoroughly 
ripe fruits, cooked or raw non-fermented cheeses, stewed pota- 
toes, green vegetables, cocoa, etc. The exclusive use of milk makes 
fat, puffy, lymphatic children, capable of standing little. This 
state is further accentuated by the abuse of sweetened dishes. 

It is also necessary at this age to avoid giving foods which are 
higlily seasoned, and too much salted : fat fish (herrings, eel, 
salmon) dry fish, salted or smoked, Crustacea, snails, cabbages, 
mushrooms. We must also avoid giving the child sauce with 
wine, vinegar or spices, raw, dry, unripe or too acid fruits. Fer- 
mented cheeses, alcoholic liquors of every description, coffee and 
tea should not be allowed. 

From the second to the sixth year the child gets accustomed 
to ordinary food : but it is still necessary to deprive him of spices, 
sweetmeats, wine, liqueurs and coffee. We should only give him 
sweetmeats exceptionally. Milk, eggs, roast meat, vegetable 
purees and bread ought to make the foundation of his ali- 
mentation. From six to fifteen years, the chUd ought to be 
provided with nearly twice as much albuminoid matter, per 
kilogramme of body weight, as the quantity which would corre- 
spond to the needs of the adult of the same weight. In fact, 
the elimination of urinary nitrogen is per kilogramme per day 074 
grms. in the case of a child of two years, 0'61 grms. in that of one 
from three to four, 04 grms. in one of five to seven years, whilst 
it is only 0"23 grms. in an adult. The fats also ought to be 
proportionally more abundant in the case of a child, who becomes 
cold, as we know, so much quicker than an adult. Here are, 
according to different authors, the quantities of alimentary prin- 
ciples recognized as being necessary to the different ages of child- 
hood, calculated for twenty-four hours and for individuals of 
average weight : — 





Albu- 
minoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Calculated 
in Calories. 


Children from 6 to 15 yrs. (average 

according to Voit) 
Children from 5 to 16 yrs. (average 

according to Camerer) 
Boy of 10| yrs. weighing 25 kgs. 

(Uffelmann) 


grms. 
79 

70 

65 


grms. 
37 

40 

46 


grms. 
250 

236 

206 


1639 
1627 
1539 



392 



ALIMENTATION OF ADOLESCENCE 

These figures appear to us a little high. 

From three to seven years the child should receive food every 
four or five hours. His diet should be httle stimulating and 
little varied, neither too sweet nor too salt, but sufficiently nitro- 
genized, at the same time rich in bread and vegetables, which 
among other things bring the supplement of mineral salts 
needed. 

Starting from five or six years he may have watery wine, cider 
and beer. But from seven to twelve years he ought still to avoid 
dishes which are stimulating, heating, too nitrogenous and too 
higlily spiced, and he should not be given either too alcoholic 
beverages, or coffee. 

In the case of the growing child, certain mineral elements, 
especially salts of potash and hme, as well as organic phosphorus, 
become particularly necessary to the growth of the tissues. Bread, 
cereal flours, milk, brains, fish, seed vegetables, broth, furnish 
these materials in considerable quantities. We must not lose 
sight of the fact that from its birth to one year old, a child ought to 
fix 600 grms. of mineral substances in his bones, and from 120 
to 150 grms. the following years. He needs the first year nearly 
05 grms. of lime a day. 

Adolescence ; Puberty. — The adolescent ought to have the free 
use of bread, eggs, meat and foods of every kind if he digests them 
well ; but he ought still to avoid spiced dishes and too generous 
wines. In the case of the young girl or boy it is useless indeed 
to provoke prematurely the hasty development of the functions 
of reproduction which would stop or would interrupt the normal 
growth and react on the other functions. The best stimulant of 
the appetite at this age is fatigue for boys, moderate exercise and 
walking in the open air for girls. 

The establishment of puberty is generally the establishment 
of exceptional needs of nutrition. From sixteen to eighteen 
years a boy eats as much as an adult, sometimes more (Panura, 
Uffelmann). He has need of a great excess of meat. The young 
man ought then to be able to satisfy his appetite fully. This is 
not perhaps the case with the boys in our lycees : the very big 
boys receive administratively 1,500 grms. of trimmed and boned 
meat per week, or 213 grms. per day ; the big boys (5th and 4th), 
170 grms. ; the average boys (3rd and 2nd), 150 grms., and the little 
ones (1st) 115 grms. on an average per day. From the 5th form 
upwards it is too little for the big boys. Fish, milk, dry vege- 
tables, cheese and eggs should complete this regimen. Moreover 
we must see that young people really do receive the ration allotted 
to them by the rules ; that the quality of the food is good ; that 
the meat is roasted rather than boiled, that dry vegetables are 
prepared with care and that the food is distributed regularly. 
From 14 to 20 all work, including intellectual work, is accompanied 

393 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

by an enormous expenditure. It is the age when the body takes 
its definite form, becomes virile, acquires strength and wastes. 
Only the use of stimulants, spices and fermented liquors then 
should be restrained. 

We have shown in Part I of this Work the quantitative and 
qualitative composition of the daily allowance for maintenance 
for the adult, whether he remains at relative repose or whether he 
is at work, and in the preceding chapter we have seen that 
intellectual work represents an effort which should be covered by 
a supplement, but by a minimum supplement, of food. Sobriety 
in the choice of dishes and their easy digestibility is more the 
safeguard of health for the studious man than for the sportsman 
or the manual worker. United with moderate exercise, if the 
original constitution is normal and the life regular, it puts off old 
age for a long time. 

Sex. — The same rules apply to the adolescent boy and to the 
young girl ; still more in the case of the latter, when puberty is 
becoming established, must we see that she eats healthily and 
abundantly, especially flesh foods, fish, vegetables in grain, ham, 
eggs, cheese. At the time of the periods, women should avoid 
stimulating dishes, Crustacea, spices, coffee, wine and too alcoholic 
liquors. 

With the adult woman, except in the very special cases of which 
we are going to speak, it is known that the regimen should be about 
four-fifths to five-sixths of that of a man^ ; as we have already 
said, whether she does not work or whether she does, in which case, 
the regimen should follow in proportion that of a workman living 
under the same conditions. 

Pregnancy. — During pregnancy the woman should eat that 
which pleases her most, especially in the course of the first months, 
when she is often subject to nausea and vomiting : coffee, tea, 
cocoa, extracts of meat, game, fruits, beer, wine, etc., are not 
unsuitable to her if taken in moderation. But a woman with child 
ought to lay particular stress on bread, seed vegetables, eggs, milk, 
meat and fish. Starchy or fatty foods ought to be taken in 
moderation, for the liver and heart have a tendency at this time 
to be invaded by fat. As meat forces the congested liver to 
supplementary work in eliminating toxins arising from muscular 
tissue, this latter ought to be entirely stopped if even traces of 
albumin should appear in the urine. Milk diet should be strictly 
adopted if there is any danger of eclampsia. 

It is a mistaken idea of Prochnovnik, and other accoucheurs 
before him, that the child develops less weU if the mother is 

1 Camerer fixes the alimentary needs of a woman of the same weight as 
a man at 84 to 90 per cent. Schmidt allows the figure 89 per cent. I do 
not know on what experimental data they found their opinions. 

394 



ALIMENTATION OF WET-NDRSES 

deprived of meat or other foods. Generally she alone suffers 
from it and the foetus arrives at the appointed time almost as 
if the mother had not suffered. 

A pregnant woman should avoid as much as possible acid and 
indigestible foods, too alcoholic and too abundant wines, too highly 
spiced and salted condiments, coffee, and even strong tea, at times 
corresponding to the end of the sixth, seventh and eighth month 
of her pregnancy. 

These foods favour premature accouchements. 
Immediately after delivery the woman may be fed on milk, 
eggs and biscuits ; the following days on bread, milk, meat 
in small quantities. She can then return to the diet which she 
prefers, avoiding nevertheless indigestible dishes, cabbages, and 
during the first two or three weeks, seed vegetables, and above 
all, particularly haricots. 

Wet-nurses. — The diet of wet-nurses should be watched, but not 
altered in nature and quantity to such an extent that it becomes 
an inconvenience or too great a disturbance of former habits. 
Women who suckle should be given meat, fish, brains, etc. ; 
allowed fatty bodies under all forms and in abundance if they can 
digest them well ; milk and milk foods including cheese ; starchy 
foods, such as potatoes, bread, rice, seed vegetables, green and 
dry peas, lentils, etc., which excite the lacteal secretion, but not 
dry haricots ; vegetables (with the exception of cabbages, cress, 
garlic, leeks, onions, mushrooms, salads and sorrel), very ripe 
fruits, and better still cooked fruits ; meals of good brands and 
casein powders, provided that their taste pleases and that they are 
not too stale, may also be useful. 

To the vegetables quoted above as not suitable for nurses or 
nurslings let us add too highly spiced or too salted dishes, strong 
cheeses, salt fish, too piquant pork, butcher's meats, Crustacea, 
mussels, herrings, anchovies, etc. 

It is weU to allow wet-nurses to take in abundance water 
mixed with a little wine or cider, but to forbid them to drink 
beyond half litre of good wine or a litre and a half of beer or cider : 
never alcohol or liqueurs. 

The woman who suckles ought to feed herself well, but not to 
excess : a daily alimentation furnishing her with 150 grms. of 
albuminoids, 100 grms. of fat and 450 to 600 grms. of carbo- 
hydrates, composed especially of bread, meat, dry and starchy 
vegetables, fatty bodies, beer, etc., is favourable to the production 
of milk. Here is an example of this allowance where we have 
calculated for one day the weight of the constituent alimentary 
principles of the allowance : — 



395 



DIET AND DIETETICS 





Weight. 


Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 




grms. 








Bread .... 


600 


50-0 


5-1 


300 


Meat .... 


400 


80 


28 


2 


Beans, peas, lentils 


100 


23 


2 


59 


Potatoes 


150 


2-4 


0-5 


30 


Butter .... 


65 


— 


60 


— 


Beer (1^ litres) 




T 


— 


20 




162-4 


95-6 


411 



The litre of beer or 110 grms. of meat may be replaced by 1 litre 
of milk, and the vegetables and fat by eggs. 

Weak tea and coffee in small quantities may be allowed. 

The wet-nurse may give the breast to the suckling when her 
periods return if her appetite keeps good, if the child continues to 
gain weight, if it does not get pale and has no diarrhoea or exan- 
themata. It is not the same when the woman becomes pregnant 
again. In this case it is necessary as soon as one can, to give the 
child another wet-nurse, or to supply the deficiency of the milk 
by a different sort of milk. As regards chlorotic, ansemic, and 
neurasthenic women, in their own interest and in that of the 
child, it is preferable that they should not suckle. 

Menopause. — The time when menstruation ceases necessitates 
some precautions in the choice of foods. The woman ought only 
to take those which she digests the best, to avoid alcoholic drinks, 
spiced dishes, excess of meat, condiments and too great abundance 
of foods. 

Old people. — Among old people, alimentation should be reduced 
but not to such an extent that it would appear to demand the 
impairment of their activity, because on the one hand, the radiation 
from the skin and the caloric loss by pulmonary and cutaneous 
evaporation remain nearly normal in their case ; on the other 
hand, the assimilation being less regular, the smaller utilization 
of the foods demands that these be taken in relatively larger 
quantities. 

Forster^ has given the following figures as a measure of the 
average daily ration of aged people from 65 to 80 years : — 



Men 
Women 



Albumins. 

92 . 
80 . 



Fats. 



45 
49 



Carbo-hydrates. 

. . 340 . 

. . 270 . 



Corresponding 
Calories. 
. 2173 
. 1883 



Too abundant meals, dishes difficult to digest or masticate, foods 
too rich in fat, not sufficiently nourishing or too herbaceous, should 
be avoided by old people. Broths and foods easy to take, legu- 



1 Zeitsch. f. Biolog., Bd. IX, p. 401. 



ALIMENTARY IDIOSYNCRASIES 

minous meals, milk, grated meats, eggs, well cooked doughs, 
creams, very ripe fruits, coffee and tea are particularly suitable for 
them. Wine should be allowed to the aged, and even in a pretty 
large quantity unless there are any evident signs of arteriosclerosis. 

Milk, easily digested meat, dishes to which by long usage they 
are accustomed and which do not require much mastication, are 
to be recommended at this age. But we must avoid an excess 
of bread, vegetables, potatoes, all of which give but little 
nourishment though large in bulk, of all that is indigestible, etc., 
as well as the repeated use of too alcoholic beverages. 

Idiosyncrasies. — Rules relative to alimentation cannot be 
absolute. For reasons which elude us, but in which heredity and 
custom enter in very large measure, there are some individuals 
who require food in greater or smaller quantities ; also some who 
cannot accustom themselves to the most natural foods. 

There are large and small eaters, races which need an abundant 
nourishment and others a moderate one. The appetite is a function 
which develops when cultivated, and vice versa. After the Siege of 
Paris, many persons had some difficulty in resuming their former 
alimentation ; it had become too abundant for them. Inversely, 
comfortable habits create artificial needs, especially when they 
have been followed for several generations. 

From the point of view of the nature of the foods, particular 
dispositions or idiosyncrasies may be extraordinary and very 
unexpected. Fonssagrives has quoted a family in which eggs, 
no matter in what form they were prepared, led to attacks of 
choleraic indigestion. I knew a young officer in whom the yolk 
of an egg, even when added to his food in a very small quantity, 
and unknown to him, led to a kind of suffocation, then indiges- 
tion. This condition persisted from his childhood without his 
ancestors or his sisters having shown anything similar. Persons 
have been known to be taken with derangement of the bowels 
when they tried to eat bread, even the crumb of it, introduced, 
without their being warned, into stews, when they could digest 
feculents and potato broths. 

There is known to be an insurmountable repugnance among 
certain subjects for dishes generally liked by every one ; shell 
fish, Crustacea, fish, pears, cheese, truffles, strawberries, etc., and 
an interesting fact is, that these idiosyncrasies are sometimes here- 
ditary and peculiar to families as if they were connected with a 
constitution in which the cellular protoplasms, transmitted by 
progenitors, showed a special lack of adaptability. 



397 



XXXVI 

INSUrriCIENT REGIMENS — EXCESSIVE REGIMENS — OVER- 
FEEDING 

WE have seen (p. 184) that the alimentary allowance 
suited to maintain the adult at rest in a state of health 
and without loss of weight, ought to contain at least per day : — 

Albuminoids ....... 78-82 grms. 

Fats 50-60 „ 

Carbo-hydrates 380-420 „ 

an allowance which represents in calorific energy about 2,220 
units. 

These figures agree sufficiently with the losses in Calories and 
minimum work (calculated in heat) of the adult at rest. The 
weight of 80 to 82 grms. of proteid matters also meets the excre- 
tion of urea and other nitrogenous matters which is produced 
in the course of the first days of complete abstinence, and which 
corresponds to the destruction of 78 to 80 grms. of albumin per 
twenty-four hours. But such a diet is quite the limit of the indis- 
pensable daily needs of the system. As soon as the quantities of 
each of the alimentary principles fall below the above figures, 
the individual wastes. He destroys first, not alone, but prin- 
cipally, his reserves of fat ; he afterwards draws from his mus- 
cles and plasmas the matters which are lacking in the foods ; 
and when the fats are almost completely absent, the albuminoids 
of the tissues themselves serve as a combustible to maintain the 
heat indispensable to life ; from that time the muscles shrink 
rapidly, the bones become rarefied and all the tissues waste at 
once. It is the regimen of inanition or of poverty. 

When man or animals are subjected to complete abstinence, 
their temperature remains at first normal for a long time, within 
nearly half a degree : but for reasons which we have just given, 
the weight of the body diminishes gradually and various grave 
troubles are produced. According to Chossat's experiments, 
when after two or three weeks a warm-blooded animal has thus lost 
from a quarter to a third of its weight, its temperature from 
that time falls very rapidly, and death occurs when the blood 
reaches the temperature of 25° to 26°. Very rarely, the animal 
dies before the temperature is below 29° and before it has lost 

398 



INANITION REGIMEN 



from 40 to 50 per cent, of its initial weight. In the case of a man, 
at the end of twelve to fifteen days, vomitings and diarrhoea 
supervene ; the stomach, which lacks the presence of alimentary 
stimulants, secretes a viscous mucus and becomes little by little 
incapable of producing a digestive gastric juice. At that moment, 
if one happens to feed the starving man, there is a risk of 
provoking in him serious disorders, especially uncontrollable 
diarrhoea. 

In proportion as the experiment is prolonged, the general 
sensibility becomes obscured, the heart weakens, troubles of 
the cerebral functions appear : the muscles lose their power ; 
the blood tends to be extravasated and flows without coagulat- 
ing on the least wound. It comes to contain less than 100 
grms. of red corpuscles (calculated in a dry state) per litre. 
Water accumulates in the organs where it replaces the fats and the 
rarefied muscular tissue ; oedema invades the trunk and the 
brain, finally the unfortunate sufferer from starvation is seized 
by convulsions and coma, and dies emaciated and resembling a 
skeleton. 

Such is a picture of the disorders caused by absolute want. 
They may be analysed more exactly by submitting to analy- 
sis and weighing day by day various portions of animals and 
each of their organs, while at the same time we measure the 
excreta. 

According to Chossat, when an animal dies of starvation 
each tissue has lost the following relative weights : — 



Total weight 


of 


Liver 


52-0 per cent. 


subject 




40-50 per cent. Muscle 


43-7 


Fats . . 




93-3 „ Heart . . . 


46-9 


Spleen . 




71-4 „ 1 Bone . . . 


16-7 


Blood . . 




75-0 „ ! Nervous tissue 


8-0 


Pancreas 




64-0 „ 1 





According to Voit, on the death of the animal, the brain has 
only diminished 3 per cent. 

Pettenkoffer and Voit, and then Ranke, calculated the losses 
suffered during the first twenty-four hours of fasting by normal 
beings. They found : — 



Losses in albumin 
„ fats . 

„ water 



Workman weighing 
71kgs. 



Ranke weighing 
69 kgs. 



78 grms.i 
215 „ 
880 „ 



51 grms. 
204 „ 
874 „ 



1 The workman of Pettenkoffer and Voit lost 215 grms. of fat of absolute 
diet in the twenty- four hours. If he had been provided with 50 grms. of fat 
he would only have lost the difference, or 165 grms. of fats, which correspond 
iso- dynamically to 380 grms. of carbo-hydrates. We may therefore say that 

399 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Therefore of these two men of almost the same weight, the 
one, Ranke, who was fat, had lost only two-thirds of the albumin 
which the other had lost. It is always thus in the case of 
subjects rich in fat ; it protects against the wear of the muscles. 

If starvation is prolonged, the loss in fat bodies becomes 
almost constant or scarcely diminishes, whilst the consumption 
of the albuminous tissues decreases notably and continuously 
during several weeks. Here are, according to Ziintz, C. Leh- 
mann, Munk, F. Miiller * and Lucciani,^ the losses of weight in 
albumin and fats of the celebrated fasters Cetti, Breithaupt 
and Succi who, during the experiment, only drank water : — 





Weight of Body. 


Loss in Albumin. 


Loss in Fats. 




kgrms. 


grms. 


grms. 


1st. Breithaupt. 1st day 


59-5 


63 


162 


2nd „ 


58-8 


62 


160 


6th „ 


56-4 


60 


160 


2nd. Cetti. 1st „ 


56-5 


95 


170 


5th „ 


52-6 


67 


166 


10th „ 


50-6 


60 


165 


3rd. Succi. 1st „ 


62-4 


104 


— 


10th „ 


56-7 


51 


170 


20th „ 


52-8 


33 


170 


29th „ 


50-2 


31 


169 



In the case of a man thus deprived of all food, the chlorides 
of the urine diminish rapidly, the salts eliminated fall to 2 grms. 
per day and stay there. The lime taken from the bones 
continues to remain fairly abundant. 

The urea which remains at 20 or 22 grms. the first days of 
abstinence, if the individual had continued until then normal 
and well nourished, falls to 13 grms. towards the tenth day and 
to 8 or 10 grms. on the twentieth day and continues at this 
last rate almost until death. The urea increases from 2 to 3 
grms. per day if the patient drinks water. 

In the case of a dog, as long as there are fats in reserve, 
the albumin breaks up at the average rate. But, most often, 
towards the fourth week, its destruction becomes rapid, the 
albuminous tissues are themselves burnt then, in order to insure 
calorification, and this phenomenon slightly precedes the end. 
Bidder and Schmidt had already noticed that in the case of cats 

this workman had thus consumed the first day : Albuminoids, 78 grms. ; 
fats, 50 grms. ; carbo-hydrates, 380 grms. ; figures which agree sufficiently 
well with those which I have given (p. 388) for the allowance for main- 
tenance in the case of a man at rest, receiving the minimum quantity of 
albuminoids. 

1 Virchow's Arch., Bd. CXXXI, Suppl6m. 

2 Fisiologia del diguino, Firenzo 1889. 

400 



INSUFFICIENT ALIMENTATION 

(which well fed excrete per day and per kilogramme about 3 
grms. of urea) this falls to 2-5 grms. the first day of fasting and 
to 1-9 grms. the second, and is maintained at about 2 grms. from 
the third to the fifteenth day with some slight variations. As 
in the above cases, a notable increase of the weight of the urea 
announces their approaching death. 

As to the carbonic acid exhaled by the lungs, it diminishes 
by liaK up to the fourth or fifth day of fasting, then becomes 
almost constant. 

We know from Regnault's and Reiset's experiments and subse- 
quently those of Ch. Richet, that animals consume a quantity 
of oxygen and produce a volume of carbonic acid so much the 
larger proportionally as they are small in size, that is to say, 
in proportion as their surface increases relatively to their weight. 
The same phenomenon is observed, and for the same reasons, 
in the losses of fat and albumin. Animals consume fats and 
proteid substances so much more largely and in consequence 
become exhausted of these materials by fasting so much more 
quickly in proportion as they are of smaller size. 

Here are two examples : — 



Animals submitted to 
an absolute Diet. 


Weight of Body. 


Loss of Flesh per 

kUogrm. of Animal 

per day. 


Fats lost per kilogrm. 

of Body Weight per 

day. 


Dog ... . 
Another dog . 
Cat ... . 
Another cat . 


kgs. 
31-7 
17-2 
2-83 
1-86 


grms. 

5-2 

7-0 

10-8 

27-16 


grms. 
3-25 
3-7 
3-6 
41 



In starvation with privation of water, man continues to 
excrete 250 to 260 cc. of urine per day. He loses from 800 to 
900 grms. of water in all (by urine, perspiration and expira- 
tion) : it is obtained by the combustion of his albuminous and 
fat principles as well as by the partial dehydration of his tissues, 
at least at the beginning. 

In alimentation insufficient in amylaceous matters (the best 
means, as we shall see, of fighting against obesity) there is a dis- 
appearance at once of fat and of albuminous principles. In 
the case of a subject receiving daily an alimentation equal to 
1,955 Calories and placed in a state of nitrogenous equilibrium, 
Miura suppressed a certain proportion of carbo-hydrate prin- 
ciples corresponding to 462 Calories. The subject covered this 
loss by taking the necessary calorific energy in the proportion 
of seventeen hundredths from the albuminoids and eighty-three 
hundredths from the stored fats. 

When we reduce proportionally all the nutritive principles, 
the losses are covered, according to Von Norden, for about 15 

401 D D 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

per cent, by proteid matters and for 85 per cent by fats. 
If a subject is placed on half his normal ration the loss of 
body weight is from 2 to 2-5 kgs. the first week for the aver- 
age adult. It falls to 1-5 kgs. and 1 kg. the following weeks. 
The sum of losses in albumin and fats is not increased so 
much as the total loss, which comprises at the same time the 
water eliminated. Later, on the contrary, as we have already 
said, the tissues appear to re-hydrate, there is some cedema 
and the apparent loss diminishes. This condition of aqueous 
puffiness has been observed in all cases of want, and partly comes 
from the abuse which the unfortunate sufferers from starva- 
tion make of herbaceous foods or of water which moment- 
arily slightly satisfies their hunger and increases the size of 
their stomach. With reference to the famine which desolated 
the centre of France in the spring of 1817, Gaspard {Jouryml 
de Magendie, t. I, p. 237, quoted by A. Bourchardat) writes : 
" One saw during the months of April, May and June the mead- 
ows and fields covered with miserable people who disputed the 
pasturage with herbivora ; the result was dropsy of the whole 
cellular system, without ascitis, without lesions of the liver or the 
abdominal viscera. From time to time some of these unfortu- 
nate ones fell by the roadside ; nevertheless there was no other 
serious epidemic among them." 

Exaggerated Alimentation — Overfeeding. 

As we shall see farther on, moderate overfeeding is indicated 
in certain morbid conditions in pretuberculosis and tubercu- 
losis, in some serious forms of hysteria and diabetes and gener- 
ally in conditions of emaciation due to somewhat diverse causes. 

Exaggerated alimentation which must not be confounded 
with overfeeding is that which exceeds necessity. Its immediate 
consequence is almost always obesity or arthritis. 

We eat too much from system, from habit, from whim 
because we endeavour to sharpen the appetite by ingenuity, by 
variety and by alimentary stimulants and finally forcing our- 
selves to satisfy it fuUy. But in the same way that a slight 
daily overdose of alcohol ends at length in creating an alcoholic, 
a slight excess of alimentation little by little causes arthritis or 
obesity. The appetite is not a good guide for us : we excite or 
appease it at will ; it is for many people a function arising from 
their habits. In particular, in the case of meats the more one 
eats the more the stomach secretes digestive acid juices ; and 
the more it secretes, the more one is induced to eat to weaken 
its impressions and to neutralize the stomachic acidity. 

Atony of the stomach, gastric disorders, intestinal troubles, 
dyspepsia, cramp in the stomach, pyrosis, flushes of heat in the 
face, hepatic and cerebral congestions, arthritis, gout, gravel, 

402 



EXAGGERATED ALIMENTATION 

sometimes albuminuria, vascular hypertension, arteriosclerosis, 
neurasthenia, etc., attack more or less those who eat too much, 
particularly too much meat. Among these, the fatty heart most 
often becomes weak and the brain itself only acts imperfectly, 
especially during active digestion. 

But exaggeration in the supply of the different alimentary 
principles acts differently upon each organ. 

Too abundant muscular tissue leaves in the blood and the 
tissues an excess of nitrogenous matters almost all harmful : 
bodies of the uric and pyrimidic series, creatin and its analogies, 
neurinic bases, undetermined nitrogenous extractive matters, 
etc., which fatigue the system and at the same time congest 
the brain, liver, kidneys and heart and become the most active 
agents of arteriosclerosis. 

An excess of meat only makes the muscle of the individual 
grow slightly if this excess is accompanied by an increase of 
the ternary principles, particularly fats. Again the excessive 
production of muscular tissue in the adult is only very slightly 
influenced by the exaggeration of the allowance of meat, unless 
the subject at the same time gives himself up regularly to physical 
exercises without nevertheless ever reaching too great a state 
of fatigue. 

Adipose tissue, on the contrary, develops, especially in repose, 
under the influence of fat foods, and more still if there is an 
excess of carbo-hydrates and particularly of starchy matters. 
But it remains established that the abuse of muscular tissue, 
even lean, may also contribute, although in a lesser degree, to 
corpulency. Claude Bernard and Sublotin after him, showed 
long since that animals fed solely on lean meat, produce 
glycogen in their liver, and we know that all the carbo-hydrates 
are susceptible in their turn of being changed into fats, in 
the system, by the loss of carbonic acid.^ 

As to the alimentary fats, they are absorbed and digested, 
with a little more difficulty than the sugars and starchy matters, 
but a part of them certainly becomes stored in the adipose tissue. 

In cases where we wish intentionally to overfeed an animal or 
a sick person, the preceding general remarks should not be lost 
sight of. There remain some practical methods for overfeeding 
which we wOl set forth while speaking of invalids, and especially 
of tuberculous subjects. 

It may be advantageous to increase the reserves of fat, for 
example, in cases of phthisis ; but it is necessary to know that 
overfeeding, whether by carbo-hydrates or meat, only acts in a 
very feeble degree on those reserves. As we were saying, the 

1 See Soxhlet, Zeitsch.d.landw. Vereines in Bayern, 1881. Meissl. Zeitach. 
f. Biolog., Bd. XXIT, p. 63. Henneberg, Ihid., Bd. XVII, p. 295, Miink, 
Virchow's Arch., 1895, Bd. XXIII, p. 273. Hanriot, Comptes Rendiis, 1888. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



excess of nitrogenous foods is only transformed into albuminoid 
tissue : 1st, if the individual takes daily exercise producing 
average fatigue ; 2nd, or if the subject is young and in 
course of development ; 3rd, if he is convalescent or in a state of 
inanition. In all other cases, the surplus of nitrogenous foods 
introduced is eliminated, whilst a greater or smaller accumu- 
lation of fats takes place. 

In a state of inanition, after haemorrhages, in the case of 
consumptives, etc., overfeeding produces quite other efifects : 
the least quantity, like the excess, of nitrogenous matters in 
this case contributes to make up the deficit without any part 
whatever of it being withdrawn in order to manufacture fats. 
This is often observed in the case of convalescents. In all these 
cases where nitrogenous overfeeding becomes necessary, it is 
very efficacious : 150 to 250 grms. of meat per day, roast, or 
better still raw and grated, constitute |a practical and average 
addition to ordinary alimentation. Muscular tissue pulped 
and swallowed without being masticated in bolus form of 20 to 
25 grms. each, is much better supported by weak stomachs than 
in any other form. Fresh lightly cooked eggs, milk (1,500 to 
2,000 cc. per day) may partially replace it. 

It is better in general, when one can, to have recourse to 
natural foods than to dessicated or peptonized preparations of 
meat, the origin and composition of which are often dubious 
and variable. Besides, these preparations are not always 
obtained in perfect antiseptic conditions. I must say the same 
of the nutritive flours and powders of different brands. 

If one wishes to effect an overfeeding in fats, fat fish, cream, 
and butter (80 to 100 grms. per day), potatoes, sugar, a small 
quantity of wine, vegetable soups, etc.. allow of giving to invalids 
under a relatively light and very digestible form, an important 
excess of nourishment suited to produce fat. 

Here is an example of a diet of average overfeeding : — 







Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Grated meat . 
Wheat bread . 
Green vegetables 

Dry 

Milk .... 






300 grms. 
300 „ 
100 „ 

80 „ 
1500 cc. 

70 grms. 
500 cc. 

40 grms. 


60 grms. 
25 „ 

16 Z 
53 „ 


16 grr 

2-5 

0-3 

1-5 
45 
65 


ns. 


l-8grms 
150 

6 
30 
60 


Butter . . . 
Wine (or 1 litre of be 
Sugar .... 


ler) 


80 

39 „ 




156 grms. 


130-3 grms. 


366-8 grms. 



This allowance easily digested would bring to the system 
energy equivalent to 3,200 Calories. 

404 



OVERFEEDING 



With regard to fermented liquors and wine, we have seen 
how valuable alcohol is in a small quantity in protecting the 
tissues against the wear and tear provoked by the destructive 
action of toxins in general, and of what use it may be to replace 
momentarily fats in the alimentation of invalids (tuberculosis, 
diphtheria, typhus, etc.) and to provide them in many cases 
and rapidly with the quantum of necessary energy. 

The results of Hirchfeld and Krug's experiments have been : 
1st, that if the alimentary contributions exceed by half and 
more the normal ordinary ration, the weight of the body 
increases from 3-5 to 5 kgs. in twenty days ; 2nd, that at the 
beginning of the overfeeding, the increase in weight of the 
subjects exceeds the sum of the united weights of the muscular 
tissues and of the fat consumed ; that in a word, at this moment 
there is a retention of water. Later, on the contrary, the 
inverse result is produced. Here are Hirchfeld's observations 
on this subject. These experiments made on man lasted three 
weeks. 





Foods cal- 


Increase 


Increase 






culated in 


in weight 


of 


Increase 
of Fats. 




Calories. 


of Body. 


Muscles. 




kgrms. 






Man, 30 yrs. old, vigorous, thin, 


2000 


3-4 


0-87 


2-84 


weighing 68 kgs. 










Man 49 yrs. old, weighing 56 kgs. 


4140 


4-5 


1-01 


3-49 


Workman 59 yrs. old, vigorous. 


4380 


5-1 


2-03 


4-82 


muscular, weighing 50 kgs. 










Man 51 yrs. old, rather stout, weigh- 


3590 


1-3 


0-45 


1-68 


ing 89 kgs. (lasted 15 days 










only) 










Young man 22 yrs. old, convales- 


3130 


4-1 


2-80 


2-98 


cent from typhoid fever, weigh- 










ing 47 kgs. 











These figures show that in the case of the overfed, the quantity 
of albumin assimilated is essentially variable and depends on 
the previous state of the subjects. In the above cases, with 
the young man convalescent from typhoid fever and the work- 
man aged 59, both badly nourished before their overfeeding, 
there was a gain in muscular tissue of 2-8 kgs. and 203 kgs. 
in 3 weeks, when the obese subject aged 51 only gained 
0-450 kgs. and the man of 30 in full health only 0-870 kgs. 
This enables us to foresee (and experience confirms it) that, 
if overfeeding is continued, the gain in albumin will diminish 
considerably and the subject, whilst increasing in weight, wiU 
only gain fat. 

It is thus that continued overfeeding rapidly becomes an 
exaggerated alimentation. It charges the liver, the heart, the 

405 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

kidnej^s, etc., with fats and is opposed to their regular action. 
Moreover, if the alimentation is too rich in meat it becomes a 
source of obstructive waste matters, and of toxins. It con- 
gests the hepatic gland and kidneys ; it excites and fatigues 
the heart by increasing the vascular pressure ; it saturates the 
tissues with residues all the more difficult to eliminate as it has 
had the effect of rendering the blood less alkaline and the oxi- 
dations less powerful. 



406 



XXXVII 

EXCLUSIVE DIETS — VEGETARIAN DIET — MILK DIET — MEAT DIET 

FROM the earliest times, man has fed on the fruits of the 
earth and the flesh of animals. But at certain epochs, 
under the influence of philosophic theories or religious ideas, 
sometimes on account of hygienic considerations, or even forced 
by necessity, he has, voluntarily or not, subjected himself to 
special diets : sometimes eating only fruits and herbs, sometimes 
adding milk to these vegetables, at other times on the contrary 
feeding himself almost entirely on meat, or else adopting a 
mixed diet, but one from which animal flesh was excluded. 
These exclusive methods of alimentation have led to some hygienic 
or social results which find applications in the dietetic treatment 
of invalids and which we are now going to describe. 

Vegetarian Diet. 

To entirely abstain from the flesh of animals was at first a 
religious practice. The Hindoos, followers of Brahma or Buddha, 
believed and believe still that the spirit or soul (aa-O/xa of the 
Greeks) can migrate from man to animals, which are our inferior 
brothers, and it has always been repugnant to those who share 
this opinion to expose themselves by eating their flesh to a kind of 
sacrilegious cannibalism. For a similar reason the religion of 
the ancient Egyptians forbade the use of meat (S. Sharpe). 
This is the doctrine which Pythagoras brought from that country 
into Greece, whence it has been transmitted to us modified by 
time. Its most impressive philosophic echo was heard in the 
Emile of J. J. Rousseau. 

But the human race is omnivorous by instinct, by its denti- 
tion, by its digestive secretions and by its need of activity. To 
work quickly and well, the modern man, especially, must have 
stimulating aliments which furnish him with the most active and 
most digestible plastic matter in the smallest volume. A 

407 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

mixed diet of meat and vegetables seems to agree with him from 
every point of view. 

It would be wrong, however, to suppose that privation of 
muscular tissue prejudices his physical energy ; but heredity 
and custom play a large part in this matter.^ 

According to J. Sinclair, the Hindoo pattamars, carriers of 
despatches, who only eat rice, run every day, passing from one 
town to another, twenty leagues at least, and continue thus for 
weeks. Russian agriculturists who live on vegetables, black bread, 
milk and garlic, work sixteen to eighteen hours per day, and their 
strength is said often to exceed that of the American sailors (Brem- 
ner and Howland). The Norwegian peasants scarcely know of 
animal alimentation ; they cover, however, whilst accompanying 
the carriages of tourists, from three to four leagues, running with- 
out stopping. Modern Egyptian workmen and boatmen, who 
from time immemorial have fed almost exclusively on melons, 
onions, broad beans, lentils, dates and maize have remarkable 
muscular strength (Lane and Catherwood). The miners of South 
America, very sober workmen, who do not eat meat, carry on 
their shoulders weights of 200 pounds, with which they mount 
twelve times a day, on an average, vertical ladders 60 to 80 
metres high (F. Head, L. Playfair and Darwin). According to 
H. Ranke, the woodcutters of Upper Bavaria feed almost exclus- 
ively on flour (1,100 to 1,200 grms. per day) cooked with hogs' 
lard (90 grms.) without eggs or cheese ; on Sundays only they have 
a little pork. They do, however, an enormous amount of work. ^ 
The Turkish soldier is extraordinarily abstemious ; he only 
drinks water or lemonade, feeds on pillaflf of rice and figs and 
scarcely touches meat. We know that his vigour is remarkable 
and his courage indomitable. The street porters of Salonica and 
Constantinople, who are fed in the same way, are of a proverbial 
strength. Hence the saying : As strong as a Turk. 

1 add that I have known very intelligent people, men and 
women, who, having become vegetarians from principle or for 
hygienic reasons after having formerly eaten flesh like every 
one else, have told me that they have done admirably with abso- 
lute abstinence from the point of view of their strength and of 
their health. 

Vegetarianism is then an acceptable, sufficient, and even useful 
practice in some cases, but we must know its disadvantages as 
well as its advantages. 

Its advantages are those which result from temperance : 
by this method of alimentation the tendency to arthritic, gouty 

^ We extract the majority of the following facts from the interesting 
work of Mrs. A. Kingsford (Theses de Paris, 1880). 

2 Zeitsch. f. Biolog., Bd. XIII, p. 130. 

408 



VEGETARIAN REGIMEN 

or rheumatic diathesis, to neurasthenia, etc., disappears or is 
weakened ; the character becomes supple and the mind seems to 
enjoy more rest and perhaps acuteness. 

I have shown (p. 376) what the influence of meat food is on the 
character of animals. As to the action of a vegetarian diet on 
the intelligence, here is the opinion of two celebrated men who 
were keen observers of themselves. 

Writing to his friend Firmus, who gave up the Pythagorean 
doctrine to eat meat, the philosopher Porphyre^ says : — 

"It is not amongst the eaters of simple and vegetable foods, 
but amongst the eaters of flesh that assassins, tyrants and thieves 
are met with. ... I cannot believe that your change of diet is 
due to reasons of health, for you yourself have constantly 
affirmed that vegetable diet is much more suitable than any other, 
Tiot only to give perfect health hut even a philosophic and balanced 
judgment, as a long experience had taught you^ 

And Seneca, who, preoccupied with the same considerations, 
had slowly adopted vegetarianism, writes {Epistol., 108) : " Struck 
by such arguments, I also have given up the use of the flesh 
of animals, and at the end of a year my new habits have 
become not only easy to me, but delicious ; and it even seems 
to me that my intellectual aptitudes have been more and more 
developed." 

After having shown the advantages of the vegetarian diet, 
let us analyse its disadvantages. The results are given in the 
following remarks : — 

Vegetarianism requires d priori integrity of functional energy. 
It is not suitable to constitutions weakened by heredity, ill- 
ness, age, etc., or to delicate stomachs. 

It is recognized to-day that alimentation, in order to allow 
an adult to produce the heat and mechanical energy which are 
necessary for him, and to make good his losses in nitrogen, should 
furnish each day, in our climate, from 80 grms. (in a state of rest) 
to 140 grms. (when at work) of proteid substances, accompanied 
by about four times their weight of ternary matters, starches or 
fats. If one keeps strictly to a vegetarian diet, one can no doubt 
mix the bread, vegetables and fruits in such a manner as to 
obtain the normal proportions of the necessary fundamental 
alimentary principles, but in order to get 100 grms. of albumin- 
oids, a quantity which we shall take as an average amount, it 
would be necessary (if one wishes to abstain from animal matters), 
to absorb sometimes immense volumes of vegetable foods. I 
have made the calculation of this amount, for some of them, in 
the following table : — 

1 Porphyre, really named Malk, born at Tyre in 233, a.d., taught philo 
aophy at Rome, where he died in 304. Ho published a life of Pythagoras. 

409 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Foods. 


Albuminoids. 


Starchy Matters 
and Fats. 


Weight of Fresh Foods 

containing 100 grms. of 

Albuminoids. 




grms. 


grms. 


grnis. 


Bread .... 


100 


662 


1,205 


Potatoes 








100 


1,536 


7,690 


Beans 








100 


246 


424 


Haricots 








100 


240 


512 


Peas 








100 


279 


454 


Salad 








100 


170 


7,142 


Apples 








100 


1,750 


25,000 


Cherries . 








100 


2,140 


14,300 


Chestnuts 








100 


617 


1,661 



Thus 1,205 grms. of bread, 7,690 grms. of potatoes, 424 grms 
of beans, 1,661 grms. of chestnuts, 7 kgs. of salad, 25 kgs. of 
apples would be necessary to furnish us each with the requisite 
quantity of 100 grms. of albuminoids. It is true that the excel- 
lent alimentary association of 603 grms. of bread and 222 grms. 
of beans would procure us 100 grms. of albumin and 403 grms. 
of ternary substances for a total weight of 815 grms. only of fresh 
foods. In the same way, 1 kg. of potatoes and 450 grms. 
of haricots would bring 100 grms. of albuminoids and 395 grms. of 
ternary substances. A similar mixture of bread or pap made 
of flour of beans, lentils, dwarf peas, etc., constituted indeed the 
rational and almost sole food of the peoples of ancient Italy, 
the pulmentum of the old Latins. Even at the present time it 
is sufficient for some classes of workmen. The agricultural 
populations of Siebenbiirgen (Germany) are fed thus, even during 
the very fatiguing time of harvest.^ The pap of maize is sufficient 
almost by itself for the Lombardy peasant and for the poor popu- 
lations of the South- West districts of France. But, except in 
cases where excessive work and fatigue suffice to give a relish to 
the foods, one could not every day return to the same vegetables, 
even if they were very nourishing. The vegetarian is obliged 
then to turn his attention, not only to bread and dry vegetables, 
but to other vegetable foods, fruits, tubercles and herbaceous 
vegetables, poor nourishments, which could only supply a suf- 
ficent amount of albuminoids in an enormous weight, since, in 
order to obtain 100 grms. of albuminoids, 25 kgs. of apples, 
14 kgs. of cherries, 7^ kgs. of potatoes, etc., would be neces- 
sary. It follows that, in order to obtain a vegetable alimen- 
tation sufficiently nutritive and varied the vegetarian is obliged 
to have recourse, sooner or later, to exaggerated weights of food ; 
a method of alimentation all the more fatiguing for the stomach 
and ahmentary canal because it encumbers them with a quantity 
of useless matters. The herbivorous animal is constructed so 

1 Ohlmuller, Zeitsch. f. Biolog., Bd. XX, p. 393. 
410 



I 



VEGETARIAN REGIMEN 

as to digest vegetables, but man digests them only very incom- 
pletely and more laboriously. We know besides that the albumin- 
oids which have this origin, are not nearly so well utilized by the 
human intestine as those of animal origin, and for this reason 
alone it would be necessary to increase these vegetable rations 
from 15 to 20 per cent. 

Efforts have then been made to mitigate the absolute vegetarian 
diet by the introduction of dishes originating from animals, such 
as butter, fat, milk, eggs, but at the same time absolutely exclud- 
ing meat. It is the fasting diet of the Catholic Friday and the 
orthodox Lent, and that of many monastic orders in all the 
countries of the Christian, Mussulman or Buddhist world. This 
alimentation is more rational ; it shares the different advantages 
of ordinary alimentation and exclusive vegetarianism. The 
following table shows that this mitigated diet is sufficiently 
practical : — 



Foods. 






Albuminoids. 


Starcliy Matters 
and Fate. 


Weiglit of Fresli 
Substances con- 
taining 100 grms. 
of Albumin. 


Bread 






grms. 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 


grms. 
562 
166 
431 
90 
86 
401 


grms. 
1205 


Cow's milk 

Milk and bread (equal weights) 
Eegs 


1852 

1528 

819 


Gruyere cheese 
Bread (807 grms) ; 
grms.) 


cheese 


(103 


308 
910 



Thus, equal parts of milk and bread would furnish us very 
nearly with the quantities of proteid and ternary principles 
of the normal allowance in the total weight of 1-528 grms. per day. 
In the same way, 807 grms. of bread and 103 grms. of cheese would 
bring us for 100 grms. of proteid matter, 401 grms. of ternary 
matters,^ very satisfactory proportions in very acceptable weights 
of nourishment. It would then be quite wrong to accuse mixed 
vegetarian alimentation of always surcharging the alimentary 
canal with useless matters. If some aqueous foods, such as fruits, 
are added, the weight of the food will increase, it is true, but the 
necessary quantity of drinking water diminishing, the surcharge 

1 Wheat and cheeses in cooked pastes (especially Ermenthaler or Gru- 
yere cheese) can be kept stored for years. Their mixture in the proportion of 
six parts of wheat to one of cheese forms in the smallest volume and in normal 
proportions the maximum of alimentary principles which can be brought 
together. We can mix with them dry seed vegetables some of which can 
be kept from one year to another sufficiently well. We see then that 
such a victualling, with the necessary salt, represents the best nutritive 
reserve for forts and entrenched cam,ps in case of siege. 

411 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

will no longer exist. Mixed vegetarian diet can besides be varied 
sufficiently, thanks to milk, eggs, fatty bodies, cheeses, sugar, 
wine, etc. It forms a very rational and acceptable diet, and one 
can, as we shall see, have recourse to it in certain pathological 
cases, or again when it is a question of softening the character of 
people individually or collectively, an end towards which our 
actual customs and the necessities of the present time ill direct 
us, I grant, but towards which we shall tend sooner or later if 
only from self-interest properly understood. It is this which 
vegetarian societies have understood, and pursue, although 
without too much success as yet. It is objected, it is true, that 
the vegetarian diet diminishes the physical and moral energy. 
It is very certain that a meal of meat sustains the strength better 
than a scanty meal ; but let us make allowance for heredity and 
custom, and do not let us settle this important question a priori. 
I have already pointed out the physical strength of certain popu- 
lations or associations which have been deprived of meat for 
untold ages. As to the energy of character, it is necessary to 
know how to avoid extremes. Does not the desirable balance he 
between the aggressive personaUty of the race or of the man essen- 
tially an eater of meat who goes straight ahead without any- 
thing (either law, pity, or sometimes morality) stopping his acts 
and arousing hesitation, and the passive energy of the Hindoo, 
an eater of rice, who accepts without question his poor destiny 
and protects even the life of the dangerous animal itself ? The 
diet of the one leads him to violence and the abuse of strength ; 
that of the other to peace-making, but also to passivity. In 
medio stat virtus. 

It has been said that the vegetarian diet provokes arteriosclero- 
sis, by reason of the excess of hme which it furnishes ; it has been 
observed, for example, that this malady is more common in the 
Orleanais, on a limestone soil, than in Auvergne, where the soil is 
granitic. But, whUst admitting that this remark is well founded, 
who does not know that of these two countries it is the second 
which is the poorest and eats least meat and most vegetables, 
and how can we attribute to the composition of the soil that which 
appears to depend on the very different alimentary customs in the 
two cases ? 

Exclusive herbaceous vegetarian diet tends to provoke intes- 
tinal catarrh and visceroptosis. It utihzes an important part 
of the assimilable principles carried off with the intestinal secre- 
tions which it exaggerates. According to Riibner, whilst for 
100 parts of starch 1-4 only are found again in the faecal matters 
if bread serves as the exclusive food, 7-6 are eliminated with po- 
tato, 3 to 7 with lentils and 18-2 with carrots, the richest in cellu- 
lose of the preceding foods. It is very nearly the same for pro- 
teid matters ; out of 100 parts, 20 remain in the faeces if these 

412 



MILK DIET 

matters are drawn from wheat bread, 17-5 if they come from peas, 
whereas the loss is scarcely 3 to 5 percent, when they originate 
from milk or meat. But these figures would change if the food, 
instead of being swallowed en bloc and often badly masticated, 
were taken in the form of powders or purees, still more if the ali- 
mentary canal had received for some centuries a different training. 
From these considerations we conclude that absolute vege- 
tarian diet does not answer well to the needs, interest and activ- 
ity of our European races ; but that mitigated by the addition 
of milk, cheese, butter, fats and eggs it has great advantages, 
that it alkalizes the blood, accelerates oxidations, diminishes 
the nitrogenous losses and toxins ; that it exposes one much 
less than the ordinary diet (especially if the latter is too rich in 
meats) to diseases of the skin, arthritism and congestion of the 
internal organs. This mitigated vegetarian diet tends to make us 
peaceful and not aggressive and violent beings. It is practical 
and rational. It should be accepted and commended by those 
who pursue the ideal of the formation and education of gentle, 
intelligent, artistic and nevertheless prolific, vigorous and active 
races. 

Milk Diet. 

Exclusive milk diet consists of nourishment by milk alone. 
This food par excellence of the newly born answers to such precise 
needs and renders such evident services that we have naturally 
been led to try it in many cases that we shall point out later on. 

However, milk diet, such as it has often been too radically 
applied, does not stand critical analysis. In fact, if in a normal 
state, as we have shown, the adult should receive per day on an 
average, 100 grms. of albuminoids and 400 to 450 grms. of ternary 
principles (fats or starches) in oider to draw these principles 
entirely from milk alone, he would need the following quantities 
of this food, parallel with which I place the quantities of ahmen- 
tary principles which exist in 3 litres of milk, an amount generally 
given to an adult when on an exclusive milk diet : — 





1,850 cc. of milk 


4,750 cc. of milk 


3 litres of milk 




contain 


contain 


contain 


Albumin 


100 grms. . 


. 258 grms. . 


. 162 grms. 


Ternary materials . 


154 „ . . 


. 400 „ . 


. . 250 „ 



To give then 3 litres of milk per day to an adult is to furnish 
him with a superabundant and useless quantity of albuminoids, 
and at the same time with far too small, an altogether insuffi- 
cient quantity of ternary materials, and yet while the weight of 
these latter is too small, the proportion of fatty bodies is very 
much exaggerated. If one wished to get from milk alone the 
necessary quantity of 400 grms. of these ternary substances 
(fat and sugar), it would be necessary to consume 4,750 cc. 

413 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of milk per day, in which case we should introduce into the sys 
tem the excessive weights of 258 grms. of proteid matters and 
170 grms. of fatty bodies, both calculated in the dry state. The 
logical and well balanced alimentation for an adult of milk alone 
is therefore impossible to attain. For practical purposes we must 
add to the milk the ternary matters it lacks, such as sugar, f ecula 
and bread, and there is no valid reason, because one has an 
interest in excluding meat from the alimentation, for taking 
the arbitrary course of rejecting at the same time the foods 
which complete and perfect with advantage the good effects of 
milk diet without the disadvantages of a meat diet or even of a 
mixed diet. 

Milk alimentation, in fact, has for its object and principal effect, 
whilst sufficiently nourishing the invalid, of reducing to a minimum 
the extractive and toxic matters which are derived almost entirely 
from the breaking up of meats : puric bodies, leucomaines, com- 
plex amides, extractive nitrogenous matters, etc., so many sub- 
stances which tend to block up the liver, irritate the nerve centres 
and fatigue and congest the kidneys. These harmful compounds 
are derived from meat and not from f ecula, sugar or even bread, 
it is then neither logical nor good, from any point of view, to 
deprive persons suffering from Bright's disease or disease of the 
liver of these latter foods. 

The addition to the strict milk diet,^ of herbaceous vegetables, 
cheese, bread, but without salt, gives the advantage that it is 
possible to use a much more varied range of foods, and that 
without introducing the poisonous residues from meat into the 
system, the constipation which a radical milk diet often tends 
to produce may be beneficially contended with. 

Giving an invalid per day two litres of milk sweetened with 
60 grms. per litre and 150 grms. of biscuit or toasted bread, 
furnishes him with the following quantities of ahmentary princi- 
ples and energy : — 

Albumin .... 90-3 grms. . . . 382 Cals. 

Fats .... 75-2 „ . . . 706 „ 

Carbo-hydrate . . . 2700 „ . . . 1,080 „ 



2,168 cals 
principles which are normal in quantity and proportions, but the 
amount of which can be increased proportionally when necessary. 
Naturally, the bread and biscuit could be replaced by tapioca, 
rice, pastes and flour of cereals, the milk be unsweetened and a 
supplement of casein in powder be added, cooked cheeses allowed, 
green vegetables, etc. In the place of pure milk the invalid could 
be given milk slightly and feebly coagulated by rennet, 
sweetened or not and perfumed. All these foods or ahmentary 

1 Provided it is not a question of dysentery or intestinal catarrh. 

414 



MILK DIET 

forms help to digest the milk, to conceal or increase the propor- 
tion of albuminoids in the allowance without changing their 
nature. 

We excrete every day, on an average, 10 to 12 grms. of salt by 
the urine. The preceding alimentation provides us with : — 

For 2,000 cc. of milk 1 20 grms. 

„ 120 grms. of sugar ..... 000 „ 
„ 150 grms. of ordinary bread . . . 012 „ 



Total 1 32 NaCl 

Is it necessary to add to this milk alimentation the chloride 
of sodium which is lacking in it, that is to say about 7 to 8 grms. 
of salt per day. if the chlorides already contained in the milk 
and in the bread are taken into account ? 

The experiments of MM. F. Widal and Lemierre and especially 
of MM. r. Widal and A. JavaP show, that in the case of invalids 
afflicted with parenchymatous or epithelial nephritis, the addition 
of salt to the milk or ordinary foods increases the urinary albumin 
and provokes fx-dema ; and that the subtraction of this salt from 
the diet, if the latter were composed of bread and meat, causes on 
the contrary oedema and urinary albumin to disappear ; but they 
reappear as soon as a sufficient quantity of salt is added to the 
exclusive milk diet. In the case of people suffering from Bright's 
disease and cedema, etc., it is especially necessary then, not only 
not to salt the milk but to avoid, as much as possible, salt 
entering into their other foods. 

It would even appear possible, as has been suggested by MM. 
F. Widal and A. Javal, to replace milk diet by an ordinary simple 
regime consisting of meat, bread, etc., but on the express condi- 
tion that all these foods are prepared without salt. 

Experiment has not shown for how long a time an invalid 
can thus support an alimentation entirely or almost entirely 
deprived of chlorides. 

If in spite of the preceding considerations, an exclusive milk 
diet is persisted in, it is possible to overcome the repugnance of 
some invalids by having recourse to sterilized milk which is more 
digestible ; by adding to ordinary milk, sweetened or not, a 
spoonful of cognac or kirscli ; by flavouring it with vanilla, lemon 
or essence of orange flower ; by substituting for one part of milk 
a similar quantity of an emulsion of sweet almonds. If 
diarrhoea occurs, the doses should be reduced ; an addition 
should be made to the milk of rice water, lime or Vichy water, 
and a little sub-nitrate of bismuth. If, on the contrary, the 
patient is constipated, barley, a decoction of oatmeal or laxative 

1 Soc. med. des hopitaux, June 12, 1902, and Presse medicate, June 27, 
1903, p, 469, 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

fruits (prunes) should be added. The patient should only return 
slowly with prudence to an ordinary diet by beginning with purees 
of vegetables, eggs, cooked cheese, biscuits and bread. 

In an absolute milk alimentation the milk should only be taken 
in very small draughts at a time, and rather slowly. 

The application of the milk diet to the treatment of different 
diseases will be indicated in the following chapters. 

Milk taken alone causes loss of flesh from the lack of starchy 
and sugared principles. By its lactose, salts and water, it acts 
as a light diuretic. Finally, it possesses an antiseptic action on 
the intestines. These useful properties explain the reputation of 
this regime and even its exaggerations. 

Meat Diet. 

An exclusive meat diet is sometimes accepted through necessity. 
It has been especially praised by those who think that meat 
forms the most nourishing and the most fortifjdng food. In fact, 
some men obliged to live a very fatiguing life, the trappers and 
hunters of the pampas of America and the Siberian steppes, the 
inhabitants of very cold climates, the fishermen living on the 
banks of the frozen seas, etc., can eat almost exclusively without 
suffering from it enormous quantities of meat or fish, but on two 
conditions, that the meat be accompanied with its fat and that 
the individuals subjected to this diet lead a very active life in the 
open air. According to Darwin, the gauchos of the American 
pampas can sustain themselves for whole months on the fat 
meat of the oxen they watch over. An Esquimaux can devour 
five to six pounds per day of reindeer or seal's flesh. But this 
alimentation becomes unbearable if the meat is lean. This has 
often been acknowledged, especially in England. We have 
elsewhere given an account of experiments made on animals 
with an exclusive flesh diet (p. 77) and have shown that for a 
dog weighing 20 kgs., for example, the enormous allowance of 
1,500 grms. per day of lean meat is necessary to keep its 
weight constant, whereas 400 grms. of meat and 200 grms. of 
milk, or 100 grms. of meat, 100 grms. of milk and 300 grms. of 
bread suffice to obtain the same result. 

It is the same in the case of man. In order to find the 280 grms. 
of carbon which are necessary for him each day for the repair of 
his organs and for the discharge of his functions, 1,600 grm.s. of 
meat (without fat) would be essential for an average man. This 
quantity would introduce as pure waste, four times more nitrogen 
or albumin than is used. These then are unfavourable conditions 
from the two-fold point of view of hygiene and economy ; no one 
besides could consume for any length of time such quantities of 
meat. 

Mixed alimentation, into which meat enters even in a rather 

416 



MEAT DIET 

large amount, is that which permits of giving to the system, in 
the smallest weight, the most stimulating and useful principles ; 
and it is that which sustains us best, at least granting our actual 
habits. 

But we must not conclude from this that if this alimentation 
were enriched in meat to the point of becoming one exclusively 
of flesh, the power of the subjects thus fed would be increased by it : 
although in carnivorous alimentation the nitrogenous coefficient 
rises in comparison with vegetable or mixed alimentation, a meat 
diet acidifies the blood and diminishes the oxidation. It charges 
the humours of the system with a superabundance of nitrogenous 
wastes, uric acid in particular ; it increases the urinary alkaloids ; 
it congests the liver ; it brings an obstinate constipation and 
causes dyspepsia, gastric difficulties and enteritis ; it leads to 
psoriasis, eczema, etc. ; it develops rheumatic, arthritic, gouty 
and nervous tendencies. An alimentation, not even exclusive, 
but only too rich in meat, could not be endured for long. It 
produces arterial hypertension and heart fatigue, and becomes one 
of the most active predisposing causes of arteriosclerosis (Hu- 
chard). M. Houssaye has shown that in the case of birds, a 
carnivorous diet produces sterility, arrest of development and 
an excessive proportion of males {C. Rend. 1903). 

Exaggeration in meat diet is then not favourable from any 
point of view. We have already said that it makes individuals 
more aggressive, more headstrong, and the intelligence less keen. 
Do not let us sacrifice to the worship of meat ! The well-to-do 
classes are only too carnivorous. Herbert Spencer may write 
very carelessly : " There is a marked contrast between the children 
of classes where the diet is often animalized, and those of classes 
where the diet consists of bread and potatoes. From both points 
of view, that of physical and that of intellectual vivacity, the 
peasant's child is far inferior to that of the gentleman." ^ 

From the point of view of physical health and strength it 
appears that it is the contrary which is correct ; as to the intel- 
lectual vivacity of the child of the well-to-do classes, it is merely 
the result of heredity, of the selection of progenitors and especially 
of education. 

A diet, the exaggeration of which is the origin of so many physi- 
ological and morbid disorders, could not be favourable to the good 
development of the family or of the race. 

1 H. Spencer, Education — Intellectual, Physical and Moral, p. 156. 



417 



E E 



XXXVIII 

ALIMENTARY REGIMEN IN ILLNESS IN GENERAL — DIETS FOR 
OBESITY — ARTHRITIS — GOUT — GRAVEL 

DIET and rest of ten contribute as much as, and more than, 
medicinal drugs to restore health to invalids. To help 
natura medicatrix, to return steadily to the normal state and by 
the most natural means, whilst avoiding as much as possible 
harmful stimuli, fatigue, the high temperatures of fever and 
dangerous chills and repairing losses of the organism by an 
appropriate diet ; not to introduce into the system substances 
either indigestible or in excess, or useless medicines ; to give to 
the invalid foods which correspond to that triple indication of 
raising the strength, producing the minimum of toxins and 
making the organs co-operate in ridding themselves of those 
which arise from abnormal action of the functions, is certainly 
not to abstain from interference and to abandon the patient to 
his fate. It is to serve him prudently and as well as possible, 
it is to avoid troubling unseasonably the complex and delicate 
internal work whence, as a rule, results the return to health. 

What can one do best in the greater number of these severe 
maladies, eruptive fevers, typhoid, pneumonia, etc. : where 
we have no specific medical treatment at our disposal and better 
still, in many chronic illnesses, where the noxious habit of an 
abnormal ahmentation, be it personal, of the famUy or of the 
race, often constitutes the most direct cause of the resultant 
damage, personal or hereditary, from which the patient suffers 
and the effects which it is necessary to mitigate or banish ? 

It has been justly said : " There is no regimen for such and 
such an illness that is independent of the soil in which the illness is 
developed.^'' It is certain that tuberculosis, sjrphilis, anaemia, 
scurvy, diabetes, heart diseases and the greater number of febrile 
affections may develop in subjects of retarded or accelerated 
nutrition, of sanguine or lymphatic temperament, and although 
we are obliged by the didactic exposition of our subject to 
separate diseases into distinct groups more or less natural, it 
is very evident that when it is a case of applying dietetic rules 
to them, one should in every case take into account at once 
the disease itself and the nature of the soil or temperament in 
which it develops, without forgetting the idiosyncrasies which are 
often so distinct. It is thus that one has regard to the individv/dity 
even of the invalid and may hope to act usefully and practically. 

418 



{ 



t)lET IN ILLNESS 

This is a very general observation which should be taken into 
account quite as much when it is a question of feeding invalids 
as when it is a question of. administering drugs to them. It 
applies in every case. 

From a clinical point of view, and also from that of the suit- 
ableness of the alimentary diet, it is necessary to separate 
maladies into chronic, which are most often afebrile, and into 
acute or febrile. These last allow of a rather restricted diet, of 
which more or less complete abstinence from food and the use 
of aqueous drinks form the principal and common part. In 
chronic illnesses, on the contrary, the diet should differ with 
almost each of them, and its composition, even its special details, 
are often essential. It is then by alimentation during the course 
of chronic illnesses that we shall commence this statement. 

But two other general remarks should find their place here : — 

(a) The alimentation of the invalid ought to be particularly 
attended to, his foods of good quality, pleasant to the smeU and 
taste, prepared with condiments which are allowed and some- 
times indispensable. The variety of aliments, like their quality 
and their good preparation, is, as we have seen, one of the con- 
ditions of their good digestion and of their assimilation. Already 
difficult to make acceptable to invalids who have little or no 
appetite their feeding would become impossible or precarious 
without this care. 

(6) In a general way in the feeding of invalids, is it best to be 
guided by their appetite ? Decidedly it is well in their case to 
have regard to this feeling of hunger, which is usually a good 
sign, but it is necessary also to take into account the artificial 
stimuli which have often created or modified this need. An 
obese person who consumes succulent and fatty foods, gouty 
and arthritic persons who eat more than they burn up and 
eliminate, arteriosclerotic people who feed according to the appe- 
tite and drink generous wines, may be compared to alcoholics 
and to morphia maniacs, who suffer an artificial need of alcohol 
and morphia. Often born with vicious habits, the invalid's 
appetite should be controlled by studying the functions and 
particularly, in the case of chronic invalids, by that of their 
losses in nitrogen and carbon according to methods which will 
be explained later. Generally, as has been seen, the man at 
rest consumes 32 to 38 calories per kilogramme per day ; but 24 
to 26 (that is 1,650 calories on an average per twenty-four 
hours) are almost sufficient for an average invalid in bed. It is 
possible to make the average calculation of their diet conform 
to these figures. 

Diet in Chronic Illnesses. 
From the point of view of their pathogenic relations and 

419 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

correlatively of the diet which suits them best, we will study 
alimentation in the course of chronic illnesses, in the following 
order : — 

(a) Obesity, arthritis, gravel, gout, arteriosclerosis. 

(6) Dyspepsia, gastralgia, hyperchlorhydria, hypochlorhydria, 
dilatation and atony of the stomach, enteritis, dysentery. 

(c) Congestion of the liver, cirrhosis, diseases of the pancreas, 
diabetes, azoturia, phosphaturia. 

(d) Nephritis, affections of the urinary passages. 

(e) Plethora, haemorrhages, hsemophylia. 

(/) Anaemia, chlorosis, affections of the heart and lungs ; dropsy. 
(g) Cachexias, skin diseases, cancer, rickets, osteo-malacia. 
{h) Overwork, neurasthenia, madness. 

Acid Dyscrasias. 

Diseases throtugh retardation of the nutrition, to use Ch. Bou- 
chard's expression, are generally of direct or indirect alimentary 
origin.^ 

They have as a common characteristic a tendency to acidity 
of the humours and to the production of acid compounds (car- 
bonic, uric, oxalic, etc.). They appear under the most diverse 
forms according to the organs and tissues where the inequality 
of the organic imports and exports is slowly, but without dis- 
continuity, produced. Our foods, we know, are specifically 
assimilated and dissimilated in each kind of organ and cell 
and the acid dyscrasia may attack the connective or adipose 
tissues, the aponeuroses, mucous membranes, the different glands, 
etc., and thus take the most varied forms. 

If there is a general cause which, apart from specific individual 
or hereditary causes, tends to retard nutrition, it is certainly the 
want of sufficient physical exercise. In the case of many men, 
brain or sedentary work constitutes the only exercise properly 
so called. The writer, scholar, artist, independent person, the 
indoor workman, etc., loses, so to speak, little or nothing in 
muscular force. The human machine tends more and more to 
be replaced by the steam or electrical machine, and in many 
respects man only acts as the director of the work which he 
supervises. His intelligence acts more than his muscles. 
Formerly distances were traversed by walking or riding ; to-day 
means of transport of every kind take us from one place to 
another without our legs performing their functions, without our 
having to make an inspiration or having a heart throb the more. 
It is only in the fields that the peasant takes his exercise ; further, 
agricultural machines are spreading so quickly that the work 

1 These pathological states are sometimes termed diseases through 
over-feeding ; we shall see a propos of obesity or arthritism that it is not 
elways so. 

420 



OBESITY 

both of labourer and farmer is becoming far less arduous and 
much more productive. Apparent well being increases from 
this, food in its turn becomes richer, more abundant, more 
fleshy, whilst, on the other hand, exercise and with it the organic 
oxidations and dissimilations diminish. Whence a double 
convergent current developing and generalizing the maladies 
essentially alimentary of which we shall speak now. 

Obesity. 

Obesity is, as it were, one of the forms of arthritis : gout, ^ 
megrimous and dyspeptic states belong to the same order. 

But from the standpoint of regimens it is necessary to dis- 
tinguish between these different forms of retardation of nutrition. "> 

Fat is the only principle of the organism which is able to 
undergo enormous variations in our tissues. It oscillates in 
man between 5 and 24 per cent, of the weight of the body. It 
is round the lieart and kidneys, in the abdominal cavity, and 
especially in the subcutaneous tissue that it accumulates. It 
also infiltrates the cells of different organs, of the liver and the 
muscles, for example, under the form of granulations often nitro- 
genous. Persons whom fat attacks abnormally become obese. 
We liave given (p. 378 sqq.) the characteristics which permit of 
defining obesity. In an adult from 20 to 30 years of age, the 
height being measured in centimetres, if we subtract from it 
the number 105 the result will be in kilogrammes the weight 
he should normally have. A subject of 170 centimetres in 
height will then weigh 65 kgs. Obesity commences from the 
time that this weight exceeds the normal number by more 
tlian one-tenth (if it reaches 72 to 73 kgs. in this case). 

Fat is produced in the system by the storing up of alimentary 
fats, but especially by the fatty fermentation of starchy sub- 
stances and sugars. A very small proportion in a healthy 
condition originates from the albuminoid bodies (E. Voit ; 
Subbotin). 

Is it sufficient to eat moderately in order to see obesity 
disappear ? 

It has been recognized that many obese subjects eat little ; 
they are obese by constitution, sometimes by heredity. It 
appears that among them the oxidations, and in general the 
acts of dissimilation, remain insufficient, perhaps by lack of 
activity or quantity on the part of the oxidizing ferments. It is 
known to-day that one of these ferments, and one of the most 
active, is poured into the blood by the thyroid gland ; another 
by the testicle and ovary ; another by the white corpuscles. 

The want of sufficient exercise joined to an exaggerated 
alimentation may also cause obesity. A liking for fat foods, 
starchy or sweetened, suffices to produce it sometimes temporarily. 

421 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



The following table, borrowed from J. Hirchfeld, shows that 
with a free alimentation in the leisured class, where there are 
more obese subjects than in the working class, and among 
the obese themselves, the consumption of fat or of starchy 
matters does not often exceed or does not reach that of persons 
who are not obese : — 

QUANTITIKS OF AlIMENTABY PbINCIPLE RECEIVED PeB DaY. 











Total of 




Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Ternary 

Com- 
pounds. 




grms. 


grins. 


grms. 


grins. 


1. Workman (not obese) .... 


98 


69 


490 


559 


2. Doctor „ 76kgs. . . 


112 


92 


340 


432 


3. Poor woman, 54 kgs 


67 


61 


344 


405 


4. Well-to-do woman, GG kgs. 


81 


74 


220 


274 


5. Obese man weighing 91 kgs. . 


124 


112 


320 


342 


6. Obese woman weighing 97 kgs. 


88 


82 


250 


332 



According to these figures we see an obese woman (6), weigh- 
ing 97 kgs., who only takes per day 332 grms. of fats and 
starchy matters, while the non-obese (3) only weighing 54 kgs. 
consumes 405 grms. The obese man (5), weighing 91 kgs. 
consumes 432 grms. per day of ternary foods, like the non- 
obese doctor, weighing 76 kgs. whose food contains almost the 
same quantity of pro teid principles. The non-obese workman (1) 
is the one who consumes most ternary matters, but he makes 
them disappear, oxidizing them rapidly by means of the mechan- 
ical work to which he gives himself up. 

A sedentary life, the abuse of fat or starchy aliments, the 
use of beverages too alcoholic or too abundant, the activity or 
destruction of the genital organs, elevation of temperature of the 
surroundings lived in, finally and especially a personal predis- 
position to fatty degeneration of most of the cells — a predis- 
position often hereditary and akin to arthritis — are the principal 
causes of obesity. 

The real obese appear to be those who, for a normal ' or super- 
normal alimentary consumption, burn or consume their fats 
and nitrogenous matters less than normal individuals. Here 
are some figures given by A. Robin for children^ : — 



Per kilogramme of weight per 24 hours. 



Quantity of urine | 28 cc, 

Total urinary extract 

Total nitrogen 

Urea 

Phosphoric acid 

Salt 

1 BuUetin de therapeutiqite, Paris 1897. 
422 



Normal. 


Obese. 


28 cc. 


10 cc. 


1-37 grms. 


0-622 grms. 


0-32 „ 


0-150 „ 


0-261 „ 


0-270 „ 


0-067 „ 


0-022 „ 


0-310 „ 


0-130 „ 



DIET IN OBESITY 

Obese subjects, often megrimous, anaemic from infancy, 
and sometimes asthmatic, are generally lymphatic and phlegmatic ; 
they suffer from anorexia, their digestions are troublesome ; 
they complain of muscular and cardiac weakness, of nervous 
troubles, etc. Many eat moderately but all their foods turn to 
fat. Nitrogenous dissimilation may sometimes be exaggerated 
in them. They cannot remain long without food, albuminoid 
and fat foods are especially sought after. 

There are other obese people, whom we might call false obese 
or voluntary obese, with whom the pleasures of the table, excess 
of foods and drinks associated with a lack of exercise and with 
sleep excessively prolonged, make the receipts exceed expenditure, 
the ternary matters accumulating in all tissues.^ 

We see that if, in the two cases, it is necessary to excite the 
oxidations and use up the reserves of fats by means of sufficient 
exercise, it is in the second especially that it is necessary to 
diminish the foods, particularly those which introduce fatty 
principles or those which are changed into fats in the system, 
namely saccharine and starchy matters. It is necessary to 
replace them by a little addition of meat. Hence the cure 
known by the name of Banting or rather of Harvey. That of 
Ebstein consists of almost entirely suppressing the carbo-hydrate 
foods (80 to 100 grms. of bread at the most per day) and thus 
reducing to a minimum the nitrogenous foods, while, however, 
acting progressively, and especially allowing fats, butter in 
particular, with the object of weakening the appetite. This is 
a diet accepted witli difficulty by invalids, it makes them anaemic 
and often provokes dyspepsia. 

More efficient and more rational is the practice of A. Robin, 
founded on the observations of Voit and especially of J. Ranke.^ 
Their experiments liave proved that if in ordinary alimentation, 
as much as possible of the ternary compounds are suppressed, not 
only the fats accumulated in the system would disappear rapidly, 
but the assimilation of the nitrogenous matters itself diminishes 
rapidly. M. A. Robin then leaves these invalids to feed them- 
selves almost to the extent which suits them, and four times a 
day, with eggs, fish, lean meat (this taken cold except at the 
evening meal). But he is careful to reduce bread to a minimum 
and all the starchy foods and to suppress almost entirely the 
fatty bodies. He replaces them by salads, cress, herbaceous 
vegetables cooked in salt water, and seasoned only with 15 to 
20 grms. of fresh butter. Some raw fruits complete these meals. 

1 Ebstein {Die Fettleibigkeit, Wiesbaden 1883), allows fats, and their 
exaggeration even, hoping thus to diminish the appetite of these invahds 
and because he says the animal and vegetable fats are not those which 
are deposited in our organs. But these are very debatable reasons. 

2 Arch. f. Anat. u. Phya. 1862, p^345. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Drink, one or two glasses of water slightly coloured red or better 
weak tea without sugar. To this diet M. A. Robin adds moderate 
exercise, under the form of walking for thirty or forty minutes 
after each meal. 

This is a very rational treatment for obesity ; it corresponds 
well with the two principal desiderata, satisfying the appetite 
and preventing the formation of reserves of fat. The need of 
food is indeed satisfied by the two meals of meat taken 
as wished twice a day and by the two little intercalary meals 
which cheat and amuse the stomach. If hunger is aroused, one 
can, two hours before the evening meal, take a cup of tea without 
sugar, which is at the same time a heart tonic, and I should see 
no disadvantage in replacing it by a little light cold broth. But 
with this diet the appetite is sensibly lessened by the absence of 
a variety of dishes, the suppression of every condiment (except 
salt), aromatic bodies, coffee, alcohol, etc., and the repetition of 
the little meals which occupy the stomach. 

Let us calculate by an example, what a diet thus arranged 
(or one or other of its variations) brings each day to the obese : — 



Aliments. 


Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 






grms. 


grms. 




Morning, 8 o'clock 


1 egg 1 


7-5 


3-6 


— 




1 5 grms. of bread 


1-2 


0-12 


7-5 




20 grms. of meat or ham 


4-2 


0-5 


0-08 


„ 10 o'clock. 


2 eggs 


15-0 


7-2 


— 




5 grms. of bread 


0-4 


0-04 


2-5 




[50 cc. of water mixed 


— 


— 


102 




with J of red wine 








„ 12 o'clock 


200-250 grms. of lean 
meat 


48 


5-5 


0-92 




35 grms. of bread . 


3 


0-30 


18-0 




150 grms. of vegetables 


3 


1-20 


7-0 




150 cc. of water mixed 










with 1 of red wine 


— 


— 


102 


Evening,4 o'clock. 


Tea withovit sugar 


— 


— 


— 


„ 7 o'clock. 


250 grms. of meat . 


53 


6-2 


MO 




35 grms. of bread . 


3 


0-30 


18-0 




150 grms. of vegetables 


3 


1-20 


7-0 




20 grms. of butter 


— 


18 


0-00 




141-3 


44-16 


82-20 



Such a regimen only corresponds to 1,290 Calories per day; 
and as it is established that in the case of the average adult in 
a state of relative repose, 2,100 to 2,200 Calories at least are 



1 In this regimen we consider it prudent to replace eggs by cheese or 
milk, as we shall point out farther on. 

2 Counted as sugar corresponding to the alcohol. 

424 



OBESITY 

necessarily lost by perspiration at the surface of the skin and 
by direct cooling of the body, it follows that with this diet, 800 
to 900 Calories will have to be compulsorily borrowed by the obese 
from the combustion of stored up fats, whence as a consequence 
their rapid and forced disappearance. 

Physiological experimentation as well as clinical observations 
confirm these theoretical conclusions. Dapper,^ experimenting 
on himself, demonstrated that with a daily ration of 127 grms. 
of albumin, 36 grms. of carbo-hydrate matters and 60 grms. of 
fats (a diet corresponding to 1,350 Calories), he lost 2-7 kgs. 
in eight days (at the beginning he weighed 93 kgs.) while fixing 
per day on an average 5-17 grms. of albumin. 

For an allowance of 153 to 187 grms. of albumin with a little 
more fat and a little less of carbo-hydrates, the result was nearly 
the same. One may then obtain in the case of the obese an 
emaciation in fat, without there being at the same time loss of 
proteid materials. 

Efforts have been made in the treatment of obesity to largely 
reduce drinks (Dancel ; Oertel ; Schweninger; Baelz). These 
authors do not give any convincing reason for it, although Oertel 
has affirmed that deprivation of water makes the fats disappear. 
But the puffiness of certain of these invalids is not due to an 
increase of water in the tissues. The cellular isotony regulates 
the water retained in the system and this does not sensibly 
increase or diminish when more or less is taken. The works 
of Bischoff, Voit and Schmiedeberg have besides established 
that water excites oxidations, probably by causing the oxidases 
to circulate by extracellular osmosis. On the other hand 
water is necessary to carry off the waste materials and to ensure 
a regular dissimilation which is rather feeble in the case of these 
invalids who are often arthritic, gravellous or gouty. Weak 
tea may agree with them and G. See allowed them even coffee. 
Alkaline waters, especially, appear to give good effects, the blood 
of the obese being in most cases insufficiently alkalinized. 

I only see then in favour of the suppression of liquids, praised 
by some German doctors, remarks made on great beer drinkers 
and some observations made on the Japanese by Boelz. But 
we know that beer fattens not by its water, bujb by its extract, 
its dextrins and its alcohol ; as regards the manner of feeding 
of the Japanese, it differs too much from ours for us to draw 
any certain conclusions from it. 

The meat allowed to the obese may be raw, roast, boiled, 
salted, but always with as little fat as possible. Lean fish, 
haddock, sole, pike, gurnet, cod, etc., suit them well. Skimmed 
milk cheeses may replace a part of the meat. Eggs ought to 

I Zicitsch. f. klin. Med., t. XXIII, p. US, 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

be given only in moderation by reason of the fats of the yolk. 
They are not besides good for arthritics ; genuine obesity being 
a form of arthritis it would be better to omit eggs from the 
diet. An egg can be replaced by 30 grms. of cooked cheese 
(Gruyere, Dutch, etc.) or by 250 grms. of green vegetables. Seed 
vegetables, haricots, peas, beans, etc., ought to be especially 
avoided on account of their richness in starches, fats and 
nucleins. 

I find excessive the absolute exclusion of milk from the diet 
of the obese because of its butter. Skimmed milk only contains 
1-2 to 1-5 per cent, of fatty matters. It has the great advantage 
of being diuretic and it may be very usefully substituted for a 
part of the water and of the wine. HaK litre of skimmed 
milk, instead of the 500 grms. of water reddened, would replace 
in the preceding regimen 20 grms. of sweetened matters (or the 
corresponding alcohol) by about 6 grms. of fatty matters and 
16 grms. of sugar and would only increase the Calories of the 
diet by 42 units or 3 per cent. This small quantity of milk, 
at the same time that it excites diuresis, allows without sensible 
nconvenience of the introduction into the regimen of the obese 
of a little more variety. 

Finally the cure of obesity may be helped by moderate exercise, 
walking, warm drinks and light purgatives.* The Marienbad 
treatment is thus realized. But it is necessary to remark that 
exercise increases the appetite ; that if it is prolonged, it tires 
the heart, already weakened by adipose infiltration, and that it 
is only slowly and progressively, especially in the case of lymphatic 
obese persons, that we must try to rid these invalids of their fat ; 
we must not demand from them either fatiguing exercises or 
exaggerated abstinence, or repeated purgations which may 
increase the nervous disorders, weakness or dilatation of the 
heart. 

Warm and lengthy baths at 37° to 38° bring about, it is true, 
perspiration and diminish the appetite, but their effects, in the 
cure of obesity, are very inconstant. 

The study of the therapeutic action of thyroidine, which 
strongly accelerates oxidations, as we know, and produces a 
rapid emaciation, does not come within our province. It is a 
medicine and not a diet. I would say, nevertheless, that this 
practice seems to me ill-timed especially because it often pro- 
duces cardiac troubles in patients whose heart is fat and already 
weakened : because we have seen these troubles prolonged even 
after the treatment has ceased ; also because a glycosuria, tem- 
porary or not, may be the consequence of this very active treat- 

1 The grape cure consisting of eating from 2 to 5 kgs. of this fruit 
per day acts as a laxative. But its effects are inconstant and doubtful. 

426 



I 



ARTHRITIS 

ment ; because finally for its uncertain action, the more sure 
and less dangerous dietetic means may be substituted which we 
have noted and discussed earlier. 

A good treatment of obesity ought to diminish the weight of 
the body, the first week, by 2 kgs. of which 800 grms. to 
1,200 grms. are lost at the expense of the fats and 800 to 200 
grms. by the muscles, according as the patient is more or less 
fat. The loss of weight falls afterwards to 100 or 150 grms. 
per day, about a quarter of which corresponds to the diminution 
of weight of flesh itself. 



Arthritis, Gout, Uric and Oxalic Gravel. 

These maladies are characterized by the accumulation in the 
cutaneous tissue, articulations and humours and in the different 
organs, of urates or of oxalates, the deposit of which produces 
painful sensations, direct or reflex. 

No more than for the obese can it be stated as an absolute 
rule that arthritics, persons afflicted with gravel and gout 
always eat too much ; but it is certain that the greater number 
eat beyond the limit of strict necessity and especially beyond 
the power which tliey have of destroying and burning the excess 
of the foods which they receive. 

Organic hyperacidity being the rule in the case of arthritics, 
the necessity of alkalines and particularly of the foods which 
alkalinize the blood is understood. Hence the restriction of all 
acid dishes, exclusive of vinegar, lemons and ripe fruits. But 
in the case of gouty people the excess of uric acid in the urine 
is far from being the rule. Only a trace of it is found in the blood 
outside of the attacks. On the other hand, in the coming on 
of gout, this acid may rise, according to Garrod, to 0-17 grm. and 
more per litre of blood. An interesting fact is that at this 
moment this acid diminishes in the urine until the end of the 
paroxysm, to be then abundantly secreted by the kidneys. 

In his lessons on Nutrition retardante, M. Ch. Bouchard advises 
persons threatened with gout warm baths, cold lotions with 
energetic friction, exercise, gymnastics, moderation in the use of 
meat, and the daily addition to the diet of herbaceous foods 
which temper the acidity arising from the meat and ensure better 
assimilation of the proteid substances. Garrod had already 
observed that vegetable alimentation substitutes hippuric and 
benzoic acids for uric acid. We do not yet know in the case of 
a gouty subject if this last acid is always produced more abun- 
dantly or if it is only deposited with more facility for an 
unknown reason which hinders its solubility. In these invalids, 
the blood does not appear to be perceptibly more acid than in 
the normal state. 

427 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

For the gouty, neither generous wines, beer, Hqueurs, coffee, 
chocolate nor spices are allowed. Not too much bread, little 
meat, and a great deal of green vegetables, few fatty bodies 
which the subject ill consumes and which impede nitrogenous 
dissimilation. No highly seasoned dishes, or foods which pro- 
duce uric acid in abundance or which determine its formation 
by checking oxidations. Garrod, however, allows these invalids 
to drink cider provided it is not too acid. A plentiful supply of 
aqueous drinks (Contrexeville, Vittel, Evian, Wilbad waters) 
hot rather than cold, mixed with a very little light wine ; 
alkaline waters taken in moderation or diluted solutions of 
bicarbonate of potassium to the extent of 4 grms. per litre 
or citrate of lithium (50 to 70 centigrms. per twenty-four 
hours). 

It is especially important in the case of persons predisposed 
to gout to avoid a sedentary life in too hot surroundings. 

Ch. Bouchard has excellently summed up the principal causes 
of arthritis and gout. " The uric acid increases by good fare, 
by too copious meals, by the abuse of nitrogenous foods, by acid 
dyspepsia, by drinks too insufficient, gaseous, acid and sweetened, 
by champagne and cider, by insufficient or exaggerated muscular 
exercise, by insufficient cutaneous activity, by cold, by a sedentary 
life, by habitual residence in confined air, by nervous atony, by 
sadness, by hypochondria." 

Let "US give here a few precise directions on the different foods 
allowed or forbidden to these invalids. 

Those which furnish the maximum of uric acids are meats and 
especially those of very young animals (veal, pigeon, chicken) 
and the gelatinous parts (head, feet, skin). Smoked meats, 
dishes very rich in nucleins (sweetbread, brains, eggs and bread 
itself) ; jellies and gelatins provoke at the same time the forma- 
tion of uric acid and of oxalic acid. Arthritics should abstain 
as much as possible from foods rich in free or combined oxalic 
acid (sorrel, spinach, etc.) without it being possible, however, 
to say that the tendency of these foods to produce uric acid 
is in proportion to the quantity of oxalic acid which they 
contain. 

Arthritics and gouty people should only take soup or extract 
of meat in great moderation. As much as possible they should 
take their meat boiled. 

Eggs are unsuitable for many arthritics although they only pro- 
duce very little uric acid : they cannot be absolutely for- 
bidden them. 

Arthritics ought to avoid foods too rich in fats, and sweet- 
meats. 

Milk is excellent for them ; it is diuretic ; it does not increase 
the uric acid ; it supplies the deficiency of meat, 

428 



DIET IN CHRONIC DISEASES 

Ordinary coffee should be replaced by that mixed with 
chicory. 

It is necessary to beware of too succulent dishes which excite 
the taste and appetite ; it is necessary to give up all spiced 
condiments except salt, vinegar and lemon. 

All green vegetables very rich in water may be recommended 
to these invalids ; but they must abstain from incompletely 
developed vegetables, or those rich in oxalic acid : green haricots 
in the pod, sorrel, spinach, stick rhubarb. Chocolate and 
cocoa should especially be avoided, although their noxious action 
is not in proportion to their oxalic acid. The tomato is wrongly 
forbidden to them when it is well digested by the stomach. This 
fruit only contains a slight trace of oxalates, and its malates and 
acid citrates alkalinize the blood. Besides I can state from exper- 
ience that on the contrary it possesses no disadvantages for 
arthritics. Moderate use of asparagus does not appear to have 
been proved as being harmful, although this vegetable has often 
been forbidden. 

The use of cooked, and especially raw onion, appears to be 
suitable to the gouty. It is known besides that this food is a 
stimulant of the functions of the skin and that respiratory 
activity increases with the cutaneous activity. 

Light non-acid wines, cider itself, small beer, weak tea in 
exciting the renal secretion, will be useful, provided that they 
are taken in great moderation. But generous wines, strong 
beer, brandy and liqueurs properly so called, coffee are by no 
means suitable. 

Pure water taken in abundance excites the oxidations and 
dissolves the uric acid (Bischoff, Schmiedeberg.) It is the best 
drink for arthritic and gouty people. At the same time a moderate 
use may be made of alkaline waters. 

Very ripe fruits are excellent for them, as well as the juices 
and compotes of cooked fruits ; cherries, grapes, plums, oranges, 
apples, pears, lemons, etc., of which the tartrates, malates, 
citrates, etc., are transformed in the system into carbonates which 
alkalinize the humours and dissolve uratic deposits. 

With regard to bread, it is necessary to use it very moderately. 
I have shown in speaking of this food (p. 226) that its destruction 
in the organism sets free an excess of 0-239 grm. of phosphoric 
acid per 100 grms. of new bread, an acid which does not find 
any bases which can neutralize it. Bread acidifies the blood by 
the phosphorus and sulphur of its nucleins and, by them also, 
enriches too the humours in puric bodies, two conditions which 
ought to cause the use of it to be formally restrained among these 
invalids.* 

1 A rabbit fed on herbs produces alkaline urine ; it still remains so if 
the animal is given 30 grms. of sugar per kilogramme per day. If the herb- 

429 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Rjasantzeff has proved besides that for an equal quantity of 
nitrogen introduced, bread produces more acid in the stomach 
(lactic and other acids) and more nitrogenous urinary wastes 
than many other foodJs — three times more than milk for ex- 
ample. 

Bread should then be partly replaced by stewed potatoes, 
wliich alkahnize the blood instead of acidifying it. I have 
directly assured myself of the remarkable effects of the partial 
suppression of bread in the case of these invahds. 

Moderate exercise, from half an hour to an hour's walk after 
the principal meals, regulates the digestion and favours dis- 
similation. Over-exertion, on the contrary, increases the uric 
acid. 

If the gouty person is cardiac or dyspeptic, the dietetic treat- 
ment for such conditions should be applied to him whilst con- 
forming to the preceding rules. 

Gravel is one of the comphcations of arthritis. It may be 
uric, oxaHc or successively assume these two forms in the same 
invahd.^ 

All that we have said of the diet of the artlu"itic and of the 
gouty applies then to an appreciable extent to those suffering 
from gravel. They should take exercise, keep the stomach 
free, avoid intestinal fermentations, which always increase 
oxaluria, guard against disorders of the alimentary canal what- 
ever they may be, of the respiratory and cutaneous apparatus. 
The subject ought also to refrain from the above-mentioned 
foods which are too rich in nucleins ; to avoid excess of meat, 
especially young or gelatinous. Weak tea may be taken once 
or twice at most per day. The sufferer must be extremely 
moderate in the use of alcoholic drinks and drink none at table : 
he should drink abundantly of water. Like all arthritics, the 
calculous patient sTiould abstain from foods rich in oxalic acid : 
spinach, sorrel and cocoa most particularly, as well as spices 
and acid wines. 

Here is, according to Esbach, Cipolina and Albahary, the value 
of the usual foods in oxalic acid : — 



aceous vegetables are replaced by seeds of cereals, oats for example, the 
urine becomes acid and a part of the sugar added to tliis new diet is trans- 
formed into oxalic acid, poisons the animal and kills it. But if at the 
same time, an addition of carbonate of lime is made to these foods which 
neutraUzes the oxalic acid formed, the urine remains in this case alkaline 
and the animal does not succumb (Hildebrant, BuU. Soc. chim. t. XXX, p. 
92). 

1 The adult secretes daily in the normal state from 0-35 grm. to 0-80 
grm. of uric acid and 0002 grm. to 0015 grm. of oxalic acid ; these 
figures vary very much from one individual to another, and in the same 
individual. 

430 



DIET IN CHRONIC DISEASES 



Richness in Oxaxic Acid of the usual Foods i (per kilogramme op 
I*RESH Substance). 



Cocoa 

Chocolate 

(A) Black tea 2 

Infusion of tea (5 

Pepper 

Coffee (infusion) 

Sorrel 

Spinach 

Stick rhubarb 

Green haricots 

White haricots 

Beetroots 

(C) Broad beans 

(C) White bread 

(C) Crust of bread 

(C) Crumb of bread 

Brussels sprouts 

Cauliflowers 

Beans 

Potatoes 

Buckwheat flour 

Rye , . . 

Lentils 

Green peas 

(A) White haricots 

(A) Dwarf peas 

(C) Turnip cabbage 

Green haricots . 

Chicory 



mins.) 



grms. 
3-52 -4-50 
0-724-0-90 
1-34 -3-75 
2-06 



2-74 
1-91 



3-25 

0-13 

-3-63 

-3-17 

2-47 

0-06 -0-21 
0-31 
0-39 
0-280 

0.047-0-130 

0-020-0-130 
0-270 
0-02 
0-00 
0-16 
0-05 
0-17 
0-00 
0-00 
0-00 
0-31 
0-425 
0-311 

O-OGO-0-284 
0-10 



Endive 

Corn-salad 

Cress 

Lettuce 

Radish 

(C) Cucumber 

(A) Asparagus 

Tomatoes 

Carrots 

(C) Chervil . 

(C) Dried figs 

(C) Cherries 

Currants in bunch 

Prunes 

Plums 

Raspberries 

Oranges . 

Lemons 

Cherries 

Strawberries 

Apples 

Grapes 

Red wine 

Pears, apricots, peaches 

melons 
(C) Milk . . 
(C) Liver . . 
(C) Flesh . . 
(C) Sweet-bread 



grms. 

0-02 

0-020 

traces 
0-00 

traces 
0-251 
0-028-0-044 
0-002-0-050 
0-030 
0-035 
0-270 
0-025 
0-13 
0-12 
0-07 
0-06 
0-03 
0-03 
0-025 
0-01 
0-01 

traces 
0-00 

traces 
0-00 

0-006-0-011 
traces 

0-011-0-250 



It will be noticed in this table how relatively strong is the 
proportion of oxalic acid contained in chocolate, coffee, green 
haricots, which, indeed, greatly favour the production or the 
deposit of urates and oxalates. The tomato, wrongly proscribed 
by the greater number of practitioners, scarcely contains, we see, 
any oxalates and never produces uric acid in the system, as I 
myself have proved. It should be classed with the fruits which 
may be on the contrary recommended to uratics, if they digest 
them well. 

Stewed potatoes in place of bread, herbaceous vegetables of 
any kind and pure water should also enter into the diet of those 
suffering from gravel. Water should be taken by them in 
abundance at meals. This condition alone when unfulfilled, 
suffices to cause the appearance of uric acid in the urine, whether 
because it does not find in the humours the necessary dissolvent 

1 Almost all the figures in this table are from Esbach except those 
preceded by (C) due to Cipolina and by (A) due to Albahary. 

2 Infused in boiling water for five minutes. Here is stated the amount 
of oxalic acid which passes with the infusion, calculated for one kilogramme 
of dry tea 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

or because the water regulates the action of the organs and 
especially promotes oxidations. This water may indeed be 
mixed with a very small quantity of red or white wine or with 
sweet cider, which make it better supported. These slightly 
alcoholic drinks help to partially alkalinize the blood and excite 
diuresis. 

Kephir appears to act in the same way. 

All strongly flavoured foods, all condiments, all aromatic 
dishes, liqueurs and brandies should be avoided. 

Oxaluria. — When in normal health, the oxalic acid brought by 
the food is destroyed for the most part in the system ; a small 
quantity however passes through the kidneys. Oxalates, always 
in a small proportion (2 to 12 milligrms. per litre), are found 
in normal urine. They are maintained in a state of half solution 
owing to the slight acidity of the medium. But oxaluria particu- 
larly attacks dyspeptics and still more nervous people and 
sufferers from hyperchlorhydria. For the rest it may be said 
that all the conditions which favour the increase of uric 
acid, contribute also to the formation of oxalic acid at 
the expense of the albuminoids of the tissues (A. Gautier, 
Lommel and Lecojur ; Albahary). Meat alimentation in parti- 
cular and gelatinous dishes still more increase the excretion 
of these two acids. The influence on this excretion of sugared or 
fat aliments is as a rule almost nil. But oxaluria especially 
attacks the obese, gouty and dyspeptic as the following table 
taken fromKirsch {Deutsch. med. Woch., 1893, p. 673) shows : — 



1. Obese (50 years) 

2. Gouty (56 years) 

3. Gastric troubles (27 years) 

4. Obese bon vivant (45 years) 

6. Grave dyspeptic troubles (40 years) . 

7. Obese (49 years) 

8. Dyspeptic obese (66 years) 

9. Nervous dyspeptic (50 years) 

10. Arthritic obese (57 years) 

11. Megrainous obese (52 years) 

12. Obese, asthma, csdema (52 years) 

13. Very obese, cardiac asthma, vertigo (45 years) 

14. Obese constipated, dyspeptic nervous (45 years) 
16. Obese, cardiac asthma (62 years) .... 



Oxalic Acid 
per litre 
of Urine. 


Sugar 
per litre. 


mgrms. 


grms. 


13-5 


38 


11-7 


11 


14-5 


0-0 


5-4 


017 


22-3 


33-6 


12-5 


67-6 


16-3 


Traces 


10-4 


15-9 


22-8 


6-0 


18-0 


Albumin 


40-0 


Traces 




sugar 


7-5 




53-6 


jj 


19-4 


1-09 



For all these invalids it is well first to avoid all foods rich in 
oxalic acid, secondly all those which are difficult to digest or 
which leave putrescible residues in the intestines. The ali- 

•432 



OXALURIA 

mentation which suits arthritic, gouty, dyspeptic and diabetic 
persons, including the partial abstinence from bread, also suits 
those afflicted with oxaluria. It is necessary again here to 
have recourse to milk, which greatly modifies the intestinal 
fermentations and, by its abundant salts of lime, neutralizes the 
oxalic acid which is formed. 

Hyperacidity of the blood results from a too nitrogenous 
alimentation, from incomplete oxidation in the system of the 
fats and fecula in excess, from an alimentation too highly spiced 
and too rich in leguminosse, from the habitual use of chocolate, 
tea, coffee, sorrel, etc. Alimentation should be watched then from 
all these points of view. 

In the case of these invalids the slightest indisposition, a 
chill, a gastro-intestinal disorder, over exercise, night watchings, 
fatigue, prolonged walking, etc., immediately increase the oxalic 
acid in the urine. In all illnesses accompanied by dyspnoea, 
oxaluria would be the rule (Benecke). This remark has how- 
ever been contested (Fiirbringer ; Lecoeur). 



433 F F 



XXXIX 

DIET FOR DYSPEPSIA — ABNORMAL STATES OF INTESTINAL 
FUNCTION 

THE term dyspepsia may comprise all the troubles of the 
digestion, which have their seat in the stomach or intes- 
tine, whether they] be of a nervous, mechanical or chemical 
order. 

Gastric Dyspepsia. — Gastric dyspepsia has given rise to much 
research. We wUl not explain it, having here only to treat of 
regimens. We shall only speak of the pathogeny of dyspepsia, 
when it can become the source of dietetic indications. 

Habitual abuse of food and drink by leading to a continuous 
overcharge of the stomach, and more particularly a daily excess 
of meat as well as fecula and fats which delay digestion and 
cause it to be often accompanied by abnormal fermentations 
with acid products more or less toxic ; the repeated use of pun- 
gent condiments ; that of strong liqueurs and so-called bitters ; 
the use of bitter wines called tonics (bitters, quinine wine, ver- 
mouth and others) ; the custom of drinking pure wine and beer 
between meals, the abuse of tobacco, coffee, tea ; ice taken 
habitually whilst eating ; foods taken too hot ; aerated waters ; 
excess of every kind ; irregularity and too great rapidity in meals, 
where there is not time to masticate the food ; violent and very 
fatiguing exercise ; office work immediately on getting up from 
the table, intellectual overwork, want of sleep ; a sedentary and 
wearisome life, desk work, etc., are so many causes of dyspepsia. 
Again I do not speak here of those which are the appanage of a 
crowd of pathological states, chronic or acute : clilorosis, anaemia, 
febrile maladies, arthritis, gout, tuberculosis, etc. 

From the point of view of treatment and diet, as well as of 
symptomatology, we shall divide stomachic dyspepsias into 
nervous, chemical and mechanical. 

Nervous dyspepsias (a type which we shall accept, subject to 
the reservations which we are about to make) are those which 
only appear to manifest themselves by uneasiness and pain with- 
out it being possible, with certainty, to connect them either with 
feebleness of the mechanical actions, which discharge regularly 
and periodically the stomach of its chymified products, nor 

434 



\ 



DYSPEPSIA 

with the fatigue due to the prolonged repletion of the organ, nor 
to the apparent disturbances of its function. The secretion, com- 
position and digestive power of the gastric juice are normal, the 
secretions are not exaggerated ; the acidity of the stomachic 
liquid appears normal or scarcely diminished ; but the stomach 
is over-excitable, subject to cramps, painful even between the 
digestions. These latter are only established slowly ; they 
drag, constipation often ensues and the appetite is irregular. 

To this type we shall add stomachic rheumatism, so often 
unrecognized as such, and the gastric fermentative disorders of 
A. Robin.i 

In the case of nearly all these invalids, digestion is slow in 
establishing itself. At a given time there may be hyperchlor- 
hydria, an abundant secretion of acid gastric juice, but this 
secretion is slow in arising on contact with foods, a condition 
which allows these latter, under the influence of their microbes 
and of those with which the stomach may have already been 
impregnated, to undergo abnormal fermentation, from whence 
lactic, butyric acids, etc., result, as well as the toxins correlatively 
formed. Hence arises with these invalids a heavy sensation, 
indicative of slowness of digestion, often of gaseous tension and 
stomachic pain due to the irritation of products which result 
from wrong fermentations. For those subjects especially 
who are overworked, neuropaths, suffering from rheumatism, 
exhausted, morphia maniacs, savants who are overworking the 
mind, choice light foods are advisable which please the stomach : 
meat if they like it or can digest it, and sometimes the most 
unexpected dishes ; minced ham, raw or smoked, oysters, boiled 
or grilled fish from which the skin has been removed, but never 
fried fish. Those which are too fat, such as eel, salmon, mackerel, 
fresh herring, etc., should be more especially avoided. Purees, 
of fresh vegetables (but not those of dry seed vegetables) boiled 
eggs, cream and broths — ^not too hot — thin herb soups, fresh 
butter, well baked bread, but in small quantity, ripe fruits, 
etc., generally suit these invalids. It is especially necessary that 
they should feed very moderately : 1 grm. of albumin at the most 
and 5 grms. of ternary matters per kilogramme of their normal 
weight ^ per day are generally sufficient for them. They should also 
as much as possible avoid dishes too highly seasoned, too highly 
spiced or too acid. 

As regards drinks, waters slightly alkalized and bicarbonated, 

1 Les maladies de Vestomac, Paris 1900, Rueff, publisher, p. 114. 

2 The normal weight, we have seen, is the weight in kilogrammes which 
corresponds to the figure of the height expressed in centimetres diminished 
by 100 to 105 according to age ; thus an individual of 1 -70 m. ought to weigh 
normally 65 to 70 kgs. If he is dyspeptic he should not receive per day 
more than 70 grms. of albuminoids and 280 to 300 grms. of ternary matters. 

435 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

such as de Vals, St. Galmier, Soultzmatt, etc., may be taken ; 
whilst eating, light red wines if there is no hyperchlorhydria 
(white wines are usually too acid) ; light beer but in a very small 
quantity. A little wine often prevents in these sufferers the 
feeling of heaviness which follows a laborious digestion. 

Truffles, mushrooms, pork-butcher's meat, higUy seasoned, 
stews, the juices of roast meat, always too fat or too rich in acid, 
fats and stimulating aromas should not be taken. Likewise, 
little or no condiments with the exception of salt and vinegar. 
It is better still to replace the latter by lemon juice. 

Chocolate particularly, concentrated broth, fermented cheeses, 
sweetmeats and sugared pastries, spices, generous wines, alcohols 
and liqueurs are absolutely forbidden to these dyspeptic people. 
They may perhaps digest coffee if they are not arthritic. 

All those who eat but little must not be expected to take more 
than a little exercise, and should sometimes be allowed complete 
repose. This applies to neurasthenics, chlorotics, anaemics, etc. 

The cessation of vicious alimentary habits, which we have 
already spoken of, and the abstinence from bitter condiments, 
from so called bitter or tonic beverages, cold and even fresh 
drinks if there is a rheumatoid condition of the stomach ; in many 
cases a few decigrammes of an insoluble antiseptic (benzonaphtol, 
iodide of bismuth and cinchonidin for example, mixed with a 
little bicarbonate of soda) taken at the end of a meal with the 
object of checking bacterial fermentations and of rendering active 
the stomachic secretions, the exclusive use, if necessary, of hot 
drinks, will be sufficient to cause many of these so-called nervous 
dyspepsias to disappear. 

This, however, as we have already stated, is a somewhat theo- 
retical standard, for there is no digestive trouble which is not 
accompanied by a modification of stomachic and even intestinal 
secretions. 

From the standpoint of the natural agent which best favours 
at once digestion and stomachic antisepsia, that is to say hy- 
drochloric acid, chemical dyspepsias may be divided into hypo- 
cklorhydria and hyperchlorhydria} 

Generally, stomachic hypersthenia is maintained by an excessive 
secretion of hydrochloric acid which arrives at its highest point 
three to four hours after the meal, especially during the night, 
and which may even be continued when the stomach is empty 
or nearly empty of food. At a certain time it manifests itself 
in persons suffering from pyrosis by a sharp pain in the epigastric 

1 Pavlow, Die Arbeit der VerdauungsdrOsen, Wiesbaden 1898. Von S. 
Ohlern, Berl. klin. Woch., 1891, pp. 491, 517 ; Bachmann, Arch. f. 
Verdauungskrankheiten, 1899, p. 336 ; Linossier and Lemoine, Valeur chini- 
ique du cliimisme stomacal, C -Rend., Congresfran9aism6d. intern. Lyon, 
1894. 



i 



HYPERCHLORHYDRIA 

hollow, exaggerated salivation, sometimes eructations, burning 
regurgitations of excessive acidity ; there may even be vomitings. 
All these troubles abate for a few hours at least with a glass of 
water, especially alkaliae water, a httle bicarbonate of soda, a 
cachet containing some decigrammes of a mixture of chalk and 
magnesia. An addition of 5 to 10 milligrammes of opium per cachet 
may be made. These attacks occur after each meal, especially 
in the evening ; they cause the patient to develop continuous 
acid stomachic secretion, chronic gastritis and ulceration of the 
organ. In serious cases of hyperchlorhydria after fasting seven 
or eight hours, 1 litre of gastric juice, very rich in hydrochloric 
acid, may be found in the stomach. 

Setting aside the therapeutics which we have not to consider 
in this work, what is the suitable regimen for these sufferers ? 

As regards quantity, they should be very moderately fed and 
generally should not exceed 1-2 grms. of alimentary proteids per 
kilogramme of their weight. 

Concerning the nature of the foods the question has been 
studied and answered in different ways by the following authors : 
Boas, Penzoldt, Einhorn, Ewald, etc., who recommend sufferers 
from hyperchlorhydria to eat raw or underdone meat because 
it is the most easily digested food ; Dujardin-Beaumetz, 
Rosenheim, Flexner, Moritz, Bachmann, etc., on the contrary, 
starting from more theoretical considerations, prefer a vegetable 
and starchy alimentation which stimulates much less the gastric 
secretions. But if meat produces a secretion of hydrochloric 
acid nearly twice as abundant as rice, for example, or other analo- 
gous vegetables, it also possesses the advantage of most com- 
pletely neutralizing this acid, in such a way that after a meat 
meal, the acidity in total HCl only exceeds, on an average, by 
22 per cent, that of the stomachic contents after an exclusively 
vegetable repast. 

From the standpoint of the production of the total hydrochloric 
acid formed in the stomach, the increasing order is as follows : 
MUk, bread, potatoes, flours, eggs, roast meat (Bachmann). Milk 
is then the food which has the least excito-secretory action on the 
stomachic glands ; it is also that which best neutralizes their 
free hydrochloric acidity. Milk is then the food which appears 
here also to be the most favourable. But in order to support 
it well, it is necessary to take it every three hours, a quarter of a 
litre at the most, and in very small draughts aft a time every two 
or three minutes. Two to two and a half litres are sufficient if 
the invalid is to be put on an absolute milk diet. 

But more often sufferers, from hyperchlorhydria may be 
allowed scraped raw meat, boiled brains, lean fish, boiled, and 
milk foods with or without eggs. Milk itself may be taken pure 
or sweetened, hot or cold, mixed or not with water or decoctions 

437 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of fruits, apples, pears, etc. ; mixed with lime water, sub-nitrate 
of bismuth, a few drops of laudanum if the patient has diarrhoea ; 
and a little calcined magnesia in the opposite case. Milk deprived 
of butter, or skimmed, is usually preferable in these different cases. 
This skimmed milk still contains all its natural nitrogenous 
plastic elements. 

The quantities of milk allowed to patients should be very 
moderate and in every case remain within the limits of digesti- 
bility. At the beginning, 1^ to 2 litres of milk per day are gener- 
ally sufficient. We shall recollect that 1 litre of milk sweetened 
with 60 or 80 grms. of sugar per litre, is equal to about 1,000 
Calories. Invalids undergoing this regimen should then only 
take a little exercise and live in warm and temperate surround- 
ings. If milk provokes acid regurgitations, we may combat 
them with powders of carbonate of lime and magnesia, this latter 
in a variable quantity according to the case. A little coffee and 
some biscuits may be added to the milk. 

There is nothing to prevent eggs, meat and vegetables also being 
taken, but the milk should always predominate. In fact meat 
accustoms the stomach by degrees to hydrochloric hypersecretion, 
which is often only the consequence of an abuse of carnivorous 
diet. 

Let us add that Ewald and Boas having proved that oils and 
alimentary fats greatly modify the acidity and the secretions of 
the stomach, it is natural to add oil, butter and cream, to the 
food of these invalids. 

When the acute stage has disappeared, the patient may pass 
little by little to boiled eggs, non-fermented cheeses, boiled fish 
— avoiding those which are too fat (see earlier) ; then he may be 
allowed to return to meat, especially raw or slightly smoked 
mutton, beef or lamb ; then roast meat, hashed and well masti- 
cated, cooked and slightly salted ham. Finally seed vegetables 
(peas, beans, lentils, etc.) in puree may be tried, but with 
prudence. 

These foods will aid the patients to fight against the acidity 
of the humours which the return to the too nitrogenous diet, 
which has most often provoked these troubles, would bring about. 
Cabbage, sorrel, dwarf peas, French beans, spinach, rhubarb are 
forbidden to these invalids. Fruits, especially cooked and quite 
ripe, are rather to be recommended. 

Bread should only be taken by them in a small quantity (150 
to 180 grms. per day). 

The best drinks are water, pure or mixed with skimmed milk, 
very light tepid infusions of tea or lime-tree flowers, mineral 
waters of St, Galmier, Condillac, Alet, Evian. 

Complete exclusion, from the regimen of sufferers from h3rper- 
chlorhydria, must be made of sauces with melted butter or highly 



HYPERCHLORHYDRIA 

spiced, fried food, game, pickled meats, fat fish, made cheeses, 
bitter or too acid condiments, pork-butcher's meat, mushrooms ; 
and especially too feculant foods such as potatoes, haricots, 
lentils ; sweetened dishes, etc., substances which for the most 
part may rapidly ferment in the stomach and produce lactic or 
butyric acid. Chocolate and cocoa should also be entirely pro- 
scribed. Again, wines and acid ciders should be avoided and 
only a very moderate amount of beer and other fermented liquors 
taken. Finally, it is well to give up liqueurs proper and generous 
wines. In a word, the sufferers from hyperchlorhydria should 
avoid all stimulants of the stomach and culinary delicacies, all 
over-eating, and should beware of drinks too hot, or iced and 
hasty meals. 

One often feels inclined to advise for these invalids alkaline 
waters or powder, with the object of diminishing the acidity of 
the stomachic juices. But these alkalines should not be taken 
whilst eating, which would again excite the gastric hypersecretion, 
but only three hours after the meal. It is better still to replace 
ordinary bicarbonate of soda by chalk mixed with hydrated 
magnesia which may be swallowed after having mixed the 
powder with a little tepid water ; whilst never rendering the 
stomachic contents alkaline, these powders do not indirectly 
provoke acid secretion. 

In the case of sufferers from hyperchlorhydria, the sharp 
attacks may be made to disappear by washing out the stomach, 
but it does not prevent their return. I have remarked, on the 
contrary, that salicylate and especially benzoate of soda in cachets 
of 20 grm. taken from the beginning of the attack, and three 
hours at least after the commencement of digestion, by substitut- 
ing for very corrosive hydrochloric acid an acid almost inert 
and antiseptic, allay the pain and diminish little by little the 
acid gastric secretions. 

Exercise after meals rarely suits these invalids. Most of them 
after having eaten require an hour's rest at least. They then 
support fatigue better. 

Chemical stomachic atony with hyperchlorhydria is as it were 
the opposite state and sometimes the ultimate consequence of 
the preceding : chronic asthenia of the stomach becomes estab- 
lished and is most often noticed in cases of anaemia, chlorosis, 
lymphatism, scrofula, neurasthenia, during febrile maladies and 
in advanced chronic illnesses. The painful crisis, pyrosis, heavi- 
ness, cramp, burnings, constriction of the stomach, etc., com- 
mences in this'case with digestion, and no longer, as is the case with 
sufferers from hjrperchlorhydria, three or four hours after the meal. 
This condition is to a great extent due to false acid fermentations 
(lactic, butyric and others), which become established at the 
expense of foods which are digested slowly or badly. Constipation 

439 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

is the rule amongst these weakened invahds. The acidity of the 
gastric juice is often only from 0"30 to 1 per 1,000 and rarely 
exceeds 2 per 1 ,000 instead of 4 to 5 per 1 ,000 which it should be 
normally. It appears that digestion in hyperchlorhydria takes 
place almost entirely in the intestines. 

To these inactive stomachs it is necessary to give only a little 
food at a time and not to be afraid of the use of antiseptics, for 
in their case the gastric juice, by reason of its feeble acidity, does 
not sufficiently impede the bacterial stomachic fermentations. 

Besides, antiseptics do not prevent the action of soluble fer- 
ments. The best are the most insoluble ; benzonaphtol (which 
may be taken indefinitely in doses of 010 grm. to 0-20 grm. per 
meal), iodide of bismuth and cinchonidin of A. Robin (2 to 10 
centigrms.), oxide of zinc, etc. We must avoid the benzoates 
and salicylates at the commencement of the digestion which 
they stop or render indolent. 

Under the influence of chemical considerations, German 
physicians especially, thought it possible to replace stomachic 
hydrochloric acid which is deficient in these invalids, by the ingur- 
gitation of a solution in water in the quantity of 1 to 3 or 4 thou- 
sandths of this free acid, the digestive action of which is well 
known. 

But it was soon noticed that the acid liquid had the disadvan- 
tage of checking the habit of the stomach of secreting its natural 
acid (Du Mesnil, Jaworski, Linnossier). This practice has 
therefore been given up and rightly so. Since then, M. Martinet 
has advised the use, twice a day, of normal phosphoric acid (5 
to 10 grms. of a solution of acid phosphate of soda, 20 grms. to 200 
grms. of water, the whole mixed with pepsin and pancreatin ; a 
teaspoonful each time). I think that the phosphoric acid may 
be very favourable at the beginning ; but it also tends to check 
the stomach in its secretion of an active gastric juice. 

The. treatment of these atonic dyspepsias by pepsins, even very 
active ones, does not appear any more to have given good results. 

The following foods are suitable for persons suffering from 
hypochlorhydria : Raw, roast or slightly smoked meats, beef, 
chicken, pork, lamb, ham, lean fish boiled in water and sprinkled 
with a little lemon, milk if it is digested well, eggs in every form, 
vegetable, farinaceous or meat soups. 

The following vegetable foods are allowed : Flours and purees 
of cereals and potatoes, tomatoes, vegetables boiled in water but 
without pungent spices such as pepper ; fresh butter, cream 
cheese ; cooked fruits if they are not acid ; rice and dishes very 
little sweetened ; bread, but in moderation. 

Strong beers, red wines rather than white, on condition that 
the patient is accustomed to them and that they are mixed with 
three to four volumes of water; coffee and tea may also be 

440 



STOMACHIC MUSCULAR ATONY 

taken by these invalids. But these drinks do not appear to 
sensibly correct stomachic atony. The best are bitter infu- 
sions, weak tea and slightly alkaline waters which provoke 
the hydrochloric secretion. 

Fat fish, high meat, pork-butcher's meat, cabbage, horse- 
radish, cucumber, sorrel (but not tomatoes), fried foods, flours of 
leguminosae, especially if they are diastasic, for they ferment 
with great rapidity in these weak stomachs, are forbidden to 
sufferers from hypochlorhydria. Pungent condiments, highly 
seasoned sauces and the juice of roast meats should also be 
avoided. 

In order to tone up the stomach it is preferable to replace the 
condiments by some bitters (a few drops of tincture of nux 
vomica or ipecacuanha) mixed with a little fluoride of sodium or 
ammonia, an excellent antiseptic if taken in doses of 1 to 2 centi- 
grms. immediately after meals (A. Robin). 

Nothing should be eaten which is not well cooked, well cut up 
and well masticated. All foods which are too heavy, too her- 
baceous, too fat and too indigestible should be avoided ; drinks 
should be neither too hot nor too cold. 

It would seem that preparations of peptons ought to agree with 
these invalids, for, since the stomach is incapable of fabricating 
them itself, it is logical to supply it with them ready made. How- 
ever, commercial peptons generally succeed rather badly in these 
cases : they irritate the stomach and the intestines. This 
applies especially to peptons of a bitter taste, to somatose and the 
albumose pepton of Autweiler produced by papaic digestion of 
meat. Those of Koch or of Kemmerich resulting from the action 
of overheated water on the flesh of beef, are more agreeable and 
better supported. The first contains 51 per cent., the second 
56*4 per cent, of albumin and extractives. With these the pre- 
parations of casein already mentioned (p. 194) may also be 
cited. But these indolent digestions must not be forced too much ; 
we must remember that the stomach may be supplemented at 
need by the intestine, which on the whole may suffice. 

Stomachic mitscular atony, stenosis of the pylorus due to 
different causes, especially to the hyperacidity of the gastric 
juice, and as an ultimate consequence the dilatation of the stomach, 
results in the stagnation of ill-digested products in this organ, 
and sometimes of hyperacid liquids secreted by the gastric 
mucous membrane. From the time that the motor function of 
the stomach becomes weaker, that it is dilated and the chimified 
juices are not regularly and periodically sent out towards the 
duodenum through the half-opened pylorus, there is a continu- 
ance of the residues of incomplete digestion in the stomachic 
pouch, overlapping of these digestions, discomfort of the organ, 
alteration in the stomachic secretions, due especially to the irri- 

441 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

tation provoked by the remains of the abnormal successive fer- 
mentations, etc. Thus it is that these mechanical dyspepsias 
pass by degrees into the form of nervous or rather chemical 
dyspepsias. 

We have not to determine here the primary causes of the 
asthenia of the organ, neither have we to describe the fer- 
ments and fermentations which thus take possession of weak 
stomachs (sarcins, bacteria, microbes, saponifiers of fats and 
producers of fatty acids, hydrogen, sulphuretted liydrogen, 
carbonic acid, ammonia, etc.). But since abnormal fermen- 
tations take place in these stomachs, the first indication is to 
prevent them. This may be done by two means : 1st, chemical 
antisepsis (2 to 6 centigrms. of fluoride of ammonia per meal ; 
[A. Robin] 2 to 10 centigrms. of double iodide of bismuth and 
cinchonidin [do.] ; 02 grm. of benzonaphtol, etc.) ; 2nd, 
mechanical antisepsis : washings out of the stomach, emetics, etc. 

These invalids should only be given very slightly fermentable 
aliments and in forms which permit of their prompt dissolution. 
The best are : Boiled or roast or light smoked and salted meats, 
but always taken grated, eggs, sterilized milk, or better still 
coffee with sterilized milk, preparations of casein and cooked 
cheeses, lean fish from which the skin has been removed (sole, 
whiting, brill, turbot, broach, red mullet, etc.), but not fried fish ; 
fresh butter, green vegetables, fruit well cooked and not much 
sweetened, toast in a moderate quantity. But all purees and seed 
vegetables which ferment abnormally in indolent stomachs must 
be avoided. 

The aqueous drinks to be recommended are : Water sterilized 
by boiling, mineral waters of Alet and Evian, etc. ; weak and hot 
tea ; infusions of barley or rice with lemon juice added ; light 
beer, red or white wine, etc., all in a small proportion. 

The forbidden dishes are : All foods which are too farinaceous, 
too saccharine, too fermentable ; cabbage, high meats, game, 
fried foods, ripe cheeses, fruits containing too much sugar or too 
much starch, aerated drinks, beer, too acid wines, pure milk 
and chocolate. 

Concerning the condiments we must bear in mind that some 
are stimulants of the digestion, which they quicken, and 
that several preparations of mustard in particular, are often 
well supported and constitute antiseptics of the first order — a 
valuable property in condiments where secondary stomachic 
fermentations due to the gastric stagnation of the foods are 
always to be feared. 

Rosenheim recommends his patients, and I think rightly so, 
to digest as much as possible in a horizontal position, in whicli 
case the weight of the foods fatigues the stomach less. 

In the grave cases consecutive or not to hyperchlorhydria 



STOMACHIC CANCER 

where there is a tendency to intestinal ulceration, the following 
alone may be allowed : Milk, buttermilk, raw meat, thoroughly 
antiseptic meat powders, eggs, light and not very hot soups, 
fresh water. At the same time the patient may have a little 
subnitrate of bismuth to act as a local antiseptic and anti- 
ulcerative, and in order to diminish the gastric acidity without 
retarding digestion. 

If there is an ulceration with a tendency to haemorrhage, the 
patient may be fed on sterilized gelatine mixed with soup or 
milk (10 to 20 grms. per day) ; but in sucli cases the surest way 
is to have recourse to nutritive injections ; we shall revert 
later to the technique of this mode of alimentation. These 
injections should be essentially composed of peptons, nearly 
insipid and as pancreatic as possible. The powder in water 
mulcifies with a little yolk of egg with the addition finally of a 
little dextrin (20 grms. per litre), salt (about 7 grras. per 
litre), and a little strong wine (Malaga, Roussillon, etc., 3 
tablespoonfuls). A few drops of laudanum are added to the 
whole. I have been able thus to feed an invalid in my family 
for three weeks, without his receiving any food or any drink by 
the stomach except a little water from melted ice to stop 
haemorrhage. The weight of the patient, which was 86 kgs., 
did not sensibly diminish. He was a very intelligent doctor, 
then aged 63 ; ten to twelve minutes after each injection he 
felt a sort of slight stimulation indicating the absorption of 
the nutritive substances and of the Malaga. The intestinal 
ulceration was cured and the haemorrhage disappeared. 

A propos of alimentation by indirect methods, we shall give 
later the varieties of this mode of nutrition. 

When, owing to the complete repose of the stomach, the ulcer- 
ative pains are allayed and for several days there has been no 
tendency to haemorrhage, the patient may return with prudence 
to milk, farinaceous paps taken in spoonfuls, purees of green 
vegetables, milky rice, then to grated raw meat, grated ham, 
purees of potatoes, bread, etc., but always in small meals repeated 
every two or three hours. 

In stomachic cancer, the best foods for the patient are those 
which leave very little residue, such as milk, raw meat, eggs, etc., 
all with the use of antiseptics such as benzonaphtol, subnitrate 
of bismuth, chlorate of soda, and even mustard, which it would 
be quite wrong to neglect under the pretext that it irritates the 
sore, which nothing irritates more than its own toxins and the 
acid products (butyric and lactic) of the stomachic or abnormal 
fermentations which always occur in such cases. 

Acidulated drinks (hydrochloric acid in yo'^o^Iis) may be 
useful to these invalids who often only secrete an intestinal 
juice bad for digestion and very poor in mineral acid. 

443 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Stomachic Giddiness. — Giddiness of stomachic origin can be 
connected with dyspepsia. It coincides fairly often with hyper- 
chlorhydria, more rarely with hyposthenia of the organ, but 
it is always, or nearly always, accompanied by secondary fermen- 
tations and by the production of harmful or toxic compounds in 
the stomach. 

This giddiness occurs especially when the stomach is empty, 
two or three hours after meals ; frequently also in the morning 
when fasting at the moment of rising. 

Bretonneau first, then his pupil Trousseau, and finally A. Robin 
advise, in this condition, the use of bitter tonics (quassia, tincture 
of nux vomica, etc.), but it is the dietetic treatment especially that 
they find useful in these nervous troubles. 

In the morning for breakfast, boiled eggs, a little bread, cooked 
fruit. No liquid should be taken at this meal. At the two 
others, pure or slightly alkaline water may be drunk. 

Milky soups or very light meat broths, meat or game, roast or 
boiled and slowly masticated, vegetables and paste cooked in 
water with the addition of a little fresh butter, boiled eggs, lean fish 
boiled without sauce, creams, rice puddings, etc., should be taken. 
Avoid cooked and fried butter, highly-seasoned sauces and stews, 
fried foods, pork-butcher's meat, preserves, salads and raw fruits, 
especially acid ones. 

Immediately after the meal, a very hot cup of infused lime-tree 
flowers, of mint or camomile, should be taken. 

After breakfast and dinner, one of the following packets should 
be swallowed with a little water : — 

Calcined magnesia ) r:- a 

Bicarbonate of soda. .1 ' ' * * * ' ' ^"^ ' 

Prepared clialk ) - - ,. 

Lactin I aaegrras. 

for twelve packets, i 

Diet est Pathological Actions of the Intestine. 

The pathological conditions of the intestine which are con- 
nected with the digestion or which influence it, are : Chronic con- 
stipation, chronic or acute diarrhoea, dysentery, typhlitis and 
appendicitis, cancer. Let us examine the regimens suitable in 
each of these cases. 

Chronic Constipation may result from three causes : 1st, from 
intestinal atony often maintained by a general morbid state 
(neurasthenia, chlorosis, tuberculosis, etc.) ; 2nd, from a want of 
equilibrium in the daily ration between the foods of animal and 
of vegetable origin, the latter being entirely or partially excluded ; 
3rd, from too sedentary habits. 

Constipation should be combated by the use of an alimentation 

1 A. Robin, Bull. gen. de Therap., March 23, 1904, p. 725. 
444 



DIET IN TYPHLITIS 

rich in herbaceous and starchy vegetables, by moderate exercise 
(walking, bicycling, boating, etc.) and by intestinal massage. 

We have made known the herbaceous foods in Part II and a 
propos of vegetarian diet we have shown the advantages, and in 
certain cases the disadvantages, of an abundance of green veget- 
ables in alimentation (pp. 208, 249, 407). The vegetarian diet, what- 
ever its advantages may be, should not be overdone. In cases of 
constipation, we must add to the animal foods a sufficient quantity 
(six to seven times their weight) of vegetable foods. The best are : 
Bread made from pounded wheat, and, better still, from rye or 
meslin ; black bread, vegetable and potato soups ; beetroots, 
cabbages, cauliflowers, salads, asparagus, cooked acid fruits. 
Mayonnaise and butter are also good. The following act as 
laxatives : Porridge, bran bread, churned milk, milk-sugar, whey 
as a drink with or without the addition of tamarind, especially 
acidulated whey ; honey, gingerbread, prunes, lactose (10 to 12 
grms.) taken in the morning fasting in lemonade or with a little 
hot cafe au lait or warm kola, these two last serve to regulate and 
slightly stimulate the peristaltic movements of the intestine ; 
lastly, aerated waters. 

Another good habit is to take, before breakfast, two glasses 
of cold water, of slightly bicarbonated water, or even of cold 
milk. 

I have not to speak here of medicinal laxatives. 

Avoid rice, cocoa, very strong and too generous wines, 
all fruits rich in tannin, too concentrated meat soups. Some 
authors think it advisable to abstain from potatoes ; I only see 
reason to the contrary. 

The too prolonged stagnation of food in the intestines, especially 
those of exclusively carnivorous origin, may lead to local inflam- 
mation of stercoral typhlitis which may involve the ileo-ca3cal 
appendix. Milk with the addition of lactin, kephir, whey, veget- 
ables in light purees, oatmeal, etc., serve to feed these invalids and 
may help, with the laxatives, to re-establish proper action. But 
here medicinal intervention should be placed in the front rank. 

If appendicitis is threatened, the repose of the patient and of 
the organ by means of opium and almost complete abstention 
from food are indispensable while the acute condition and nausea 
persist. The invalids should only be allowed a little milk and 
water if it is well supported, light vegetable broths with the 
flour of semolina or rice, milk of almonds and albuminous water. 
Complete abstinence from foods is necessary while vomitings 
occur. If these symptoms disappear, if the liglit foods appear to 
be supported, one can try then a little veal or chicken broth with 
semolina or tapioca, some milk gruel, paladas, clear purees of 
potatoes or of cooked apples, and later a little raw or grated 
mutton. This alimentation is also the proper one for peritonitis. 

445 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

The stagnation of stercoral matters, the abuse of irritating 
spices, too stimulating foods, too hearty meals and certain flatu- 
lent vegetables may lead to the hemorrhoidal state with or with- 
out hsmorrhage. In this case, all excess in diet must be sup- 
pressed, especially all excess in meat, wine and highly spiced 
condiments (most particularly pepper), whilst salt and vinegar may 
be taken. For a few days the patient should keep to milk foods, 
to purees of potatoes, carrots, rice, compotes and very ripe fruits. 
After, a little boiled fish may be added. He may only return 
slowly to boiled poultry, ham, fish, light wine and beer. All 
vegetables which leave too much residue, such as roots, cabbages, 
haricots, beans, onions, strong coffee, alcohol, etc., should be for- 
bidden. A sedentary life, and especially office life, is bad for these 
sufferers. 

Chronic Diarrhoea or Intestinal Catarrh is often caused 
or maintained by irrational alimentation. The use of green 
fruits or of coarse and unsubstantial herbaceous vegetables, 
black bread or bran bread, salad, dishes too salt or too fat, too 
acid wine, game and other high meats, raw foods, whatever be 
their nature if they are badly cooked, indigestible, or too sweet, 
too starchy, too fat ; the use of bad cider and of certain beers 
whilst eating ; bad waters which have not been filtered or boiled, 
or are too cold. Chill of the feet or stomach may also cause 
intestinal catarrh. In every case, the best diet consists in sup- 
pressing at first, or as soon as possible, all these foods or harmful 
habits. 

The following foods are also advisable in these cases : Albumin- 
ous waters ^ ; milk when it is well digested and especially steril- 
ized milk, which often produces slight constipation, milk mixed 
with arrowroot, decoctions of sago, raw grated mutton, mixed or 
not in soup ; later on the lean of grated ham, yolk of eggs boiled 
or taken with a little lemon. Later patients may be allowed 
lean fish boiled in salted water, grilled meat, hut only in a small 
quantity, purees of vegetables boiled in water previously decal- 
cined by a pinch of carbonate of soda, broths of rice and wheat 
flour (but not of oats), diastased or not ; white of egg cooked or 
merely beaten up 'and mixed with drinking water, farinaceous 
meat soups with bread or different pastes, cooked cheese, 
cream with egg and milk. Cocoa, quince or currant jelly, 
preserves of cherries and very ripe red fruits, etc., are 
suitable for these invalids. As regards drinks, the best in 
these cases are red wines rich in t annin such as those of Bordeaux 



1 To the white of an egg which has been beaten up to destroy the mem- 
branes and then passed through a canvas bag, add 400 cc. of water and a 
little sugar. If necessary a small quantity of coffee, cognac, Kirschwasser, 
lemon juice, etc., may be added to this preparation. 

446 



DIET IN ENTERITIS 

or the good wines of the South diluted with water, port, Malaga, 
tea, rice water, coffee of sweet berries, etc. 

But it is necessary to act with prudence whilst feeling our way : 
only feeding these invalids very moderately at first if one wishes 
to avoid relapses. Let me recall that in these cases 10 to 15 per 
cent, of the foods pass into the faeces (instead of 5 per cent, 
normally), and may irritate the intestines. 

The same observations in the case of acute diarrhoea, sus- 
ceptible to diet and medicinal means. 

Muco- Membranous Enteritis is an intestinal catarrh with an 
abundant elimination of mucus exfoliation of the mucous mem- 
branes and intermittent colics. The subjects who are attacked 
with it, are generally neuropaths and the most suitable diet for 
them is one which will cause the evil consequences of their ali- 
mentary habits to disappear whilst paying attention to their 
general health. 

These invalids should only partake of light meals : four to five 
per day. In the morning a little milk soup or a broth (with or 
without yolk of egg) or farinaceous soups (oats excepted), cream 
of rice, tapioca or sago. This light meal may be repeated at 10 
o'clock. At noon macaroni or grated cheese, potatoes with a 
little fresh butter, brains, lean fish cooked in water, cooked creams, 
preserves of red fruits. A small quantity of pure water may be 
taken. In the evening, the same meal as at noon with the addi- 
tion of a vegetable or meat soup, but light, some purees of veget- 
able, a fresh boiled egg, cooked fruits, etc. 

Rice water to which a little lemon has been added, weak tea 
as a drink and citronade may be recommended. 

In cases of dysentery, in view of the hyperemic and ulcerated 
condition of the great intestine, all cold drinks should be avoided 
because the reflexes would immediately congest this portion of 
the intestinal tube. Rice water or barley water rendered acid 
by the addition of a little lemon juice and slightly sweetened ; 
toast water, tea, milk of orgeat, may be given as drinks with the 
exception of Seltzer water, lemonades which are too acid, and 
coffee. 

Boiled milk, or better still, sterilized milk, provided it can be 
digested, forms a fundamental food for these invalids. Later, 
additions may be made of decoctions of flour of rice, semolina, 
powders of casein, and even yolk of egg, grated cheese (Gruyere, 
Parmesan) and finally the crust of bread and lean minced ham. 
If milk cannot be digested, raw grated mutton taken in small 
quantities at a time may be given. Likewise milky meal may 
be tried. Decoctions of barley, sweet almonds or rice are not 
so successful. Above all, the large intestine should be washed 
and disinfected in every portion with large injections (1 to 2 
litres containing 05 to 1 grm. of nitrate of silver, etc.). One or 

447 



DIET AND DIETETICS ; 

two of these injections are generally sufficient and permit after- 
wards of the digestion of light foods. 

The same treatment should be adopted in cases of diarrhoea 
of tuberculous patients ; here again the most easily supported 
substances are milk, grated meat, cocoa, red wine, etc. As 
in the preceding case, medicaments may be added such as 
opium coated with extracts rich in tannin (rhatany, coffee), which 
prevent its stomachic absorption, and have a direct effect on 
the intestine itself. 

Gastro- Intestinal Rheumatism. — The stomachic and intestinal 
walls may be the seat of pains analogous to those which attack 
the muscular aponeuroses, a pathological condition known as 
gastro-intestinal rheumatism. The principal rheumatoidal state 
of the intestinal membranes is still httle known, but it appears to 
us to be the origin of a crowd of disorders called nervous, mostly 
of unknown origin and very difficult to cure. In the case of 
arthritics it may be brought on by an excess of too cold drinks. 
In every case, the best way to remedy this condition is to abstain 
entirely from cold drinks and take only hot aqueous beverages : 
infusions, weak tea, hot water when needed, even while eating. 
The patient becomes quickly used to them and the satisfactory 
effects of this singularly active practice are not long in appearing. 



44^ 



I 



XL 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND PANCREAS — DIABETES, 
AZOTURIA, PHOSPHATURIA 

J^IET in Diseases of the Liver. — The function of the liver is to 
purify the blood and to separate from it, during circulation, 
the impurities of intestinal origin, to rid the system of the detritus 
of dissimilation : glycocol, taurin, pigments from the hsemoglobin, 
amide acids and ammoniacal salts, the ultimate states which the 
liver transforms into urea, etc. It also hastens the pancreatic 
digestion and the absorption of fats by the bile which it pours 
into the intestine. 

The liver plays a very important part in assimilation : albumin 
and peptons, when they are injected into the animal by the vena 
porta, disappear through the liver and are from that time assimil- 
ated ; they are, on the contrary, rejected by the kidneys when 
they are sent into the blood by any other vein, the jugular vein 
for example (C. Bernard; Ch. Bouchard and Royer; Seegen). 

The liver also arrests on its way the alimentary sugar which 
it changes into glycogen, etc. It elaborates and modifies the 
intestinal fats. Thus we perceive the very important assimil- 
ating function performed by this organ and the necessity of not 
overburdening its activity by an imprudent alimentation. 

Its physiological role, its multiple functions of purifying the blood 
and assimilating the albuminoids and fats, already show at once 
the way in which one should direct one's alimentation to avoid 
overworking the liver, or causing it to become permanently 
congested, or, if it is already out of order, giving it work beyond its 
power. 

Obliged to act immoderately if it receives digestive products 
which are too abundant, too nitrogenous, too fat or too alcoholic, 
the liver becomes gorged with blood and hypertrophied owing 
to the excessive work which these undesirable conditions im- 
pose on it ; it then becomes tired and weak and sooner or later 
incompetent. But whether it be in a state of over-activity or 
incompetency, the best thing to do for this organ, if it is diseased, 
is to reduce its activity to a minimum, for either it is in a 
state of hypertension which requires to be mitigated, or else it is 
in a condition of weakness, of slow or impaired work, and its forces 
should be husbanded; to attempt to remedy this incapacity 
by artificial stimulants is to treat it like a cab-horse which is roused 
to further effort by the whip, it is true, but at the expense of his 
final resources. 

449 G Q 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

These observations all aid us in dieting those suffering from 
hepatic ailments. They show that from this latter point of view 
there is no need to go beyond the classification of these into 
invalids . suffering from hyperstenic and hypostenic livers and 
invalids with enlarged or contracted livers.^ 

And since this organ is the great transformer of the alimentary 
chyle and the purifier of the mesenteric venous blood, it is well 
from the first to take precautions that the alimentation and 
digestion do not continue to impose work on it beyond its forces. ^ 

It is known too that nearly all complaints of the stomach and 
intestine have an influence on the action of the liver ; and 
reciprocally, the imperfections of nutrition which modify the 
action of this gland influence the digestive organs. 

The diet of the hepatic subject ought then, before all, to spare 
the stomach, to have regard to digestive troubles, particularly hy- 
pochlorhydria which alone suffices to excite and congest the organ. 

These subjects then must eat in moderation, restricting thus the 
work of the liver which, as is known, acts on the fats and sugars 
but especially on albuminous foods, and particularly on those 
of animal origin. It is from these foods that intestinal digestion 
produces the maximum of nitrogenous waste, harmful matters, 
ammoniacal salts, particularly oxamate and carbamate of 
ammonia, which the liver is eliminating by means of the bile, 
with other elements of innutrition if it has not been able to trans- 
form them into urea. 

It will be understood that it is necessary to impose on hyper- 
trophied or atrophied livers (it makes little difference) the least 

1 As signs of hepatic incapacity, M. A. Robin indicates the following 
{Bull, therapeutique, March 23, 1904; p. 168):— 

Ist. The presence of urocrythrin in the urine. It is the pink pigment 
which reddens the slightly acid urines of certain invalids, as well as the 
deposits which form there. 

2nd. The lowering of the nitrogenous coefficient — - — This 

total nitrogen 
coefficient becomes in these cases lower than 0-80. 

3rd. The lowering of the proportion of or the cnnffi- 

^ ^ ^ total sulphur "^ ^^"6 coem 

cient of the oxidation of the sulphur. 

4th. The more or less great discoloration of the excrements. 

5th. The diminution of the reactions of the liver submitted to the 
action of the cholagogues. 

1 add that in the case where the liver acts imperfectly, the toxicity of 
the urine rises above the normal, and the phosphotimgstic or silicotung- 
stic reactions indicate in the renal excretion the relatively abundant 
presence of nitrogenous matters of alkaloid nature. 

2 See, on the subject of Diet of Hepatics, Bulletin de la Societe de thera- 
peutique. Report of M. Linossier, Meeting, January 27, 1904 and discussions. 
Meetings of February 24, and March 23, works and discussions from which 
we have borrowed several of the views stated here concerning the diet 
of hepatic subjects. 

450 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER 

possible amount of this work of purification, of alimentary trans- 
formation or selection. 

Thus, those suffering from disorders of the liver of whatever 
kind they may be, should avoid an alimentation which is too 
abundant or too nitrogenous. The latter, moreover, while pro- 
voking hydrochloric hypersecretion influences the liver on the one 
hand by irritating on its way the ampulla of Vater and on the other 
hand by bringing the nitrogenous matters of anomalous fermenta- 
tions, gastric or intestinal, which provoke and augment the purify- 
ing work of the gland. 

It is well also to avoid the abuse of foods which are too succulent 
and too fat, spices and everything which may produce hyper- 
chlorhydria (p. 436). 

The same remarks apply a fortiori if there is jaundice with gravel 
or biliary calculi. 

Meats which are too young, and particularly veal, or too much 
charged with extract (venison, over-worked animals, high or 
pickled meats, Crustacea, fat or preserved fish) are especially to be 
feared. But as albuminoids are above all necessary, it is especially 
from a vegetable regimen and milk that we should obtain them 
without, however, absolutely excluding meat, except perhaps in 
cases of atrophic cirrhosis and other serious conditions of the liver, 
where a lac to -vegetarian diet should be exclusively adopted. We 
know that Nencki and Pavlow have proved that when, in the case 
of a dog, by means of an operation for fistula known as Eck's, the 
portal vein is directly brought into the inferior vena cava, thus 
suppressing the hepatic portal circulation, it is possible to feed 
this animal almost indefinitely on milk, vegetables and bread. 
But from the time it is given meat, the dog becomes surly and 
snappy, is seized with grave nervous disorders and ends by 
dying. Nencki established that, in this case, the liver no 
longer eliminates the poisons which form themselves, particularly 
the carbamate of ammonia, which is found again in the blood 
and which, henceforth, reacting by its toxicity on the nerve 
centres, produces the disorders noticed. 

It is true that milk introduces into the organism a super- 
abundance of fatty bodies which should be avoided as mucii as 
possible. But we may give skimmed milk, which does not contain 
more than 10 to 15 grms. of butter per litre and which has lost 
none of its albuminoids. 

M. A. Robin considers the milk diet as rigorously necessary in 
cases of hypertrophic cirrhosis, the congestive period which pre- 
cedes the state of atrophic cirrhosis, and in cases of patients with 
the big liver of Reichmann's disease, with gastric ectasia. M. 
Mathieu also recommends the lacto-vegetarian diet in all these 
cases, but most particularly in cirrhosis and in amniochohtis 
{Bull, therap., Seance of March 9, 1904, 

451 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

All fatty foods and consequently also farinaceous foods and dry 
vegetables (potatoes, dry peas, dry haricots, lentils, beans) 
should be equally restricted because their starchy matters are 
so easily transformed in the liver itself into fatty substances. It 
is from this latter point of view and also because of its stimulating 
action on the digestive and hepatic functions, that it is also 
necessary to proscribe alcohol and too generous wines, which con- 
gest the liver, provoke the formation of fats and prevent their 
combustion. Further, according to M. Lancereaux, plastered 
wines would be particularly dangerous and might become the cause 
of cirrhosis. 

These patients must give up coffee and especially chocolate, 
which are at once too stimulating, too fat and richly oxalic. 

They must also avoid all irritating and indigestible vegetables : 
green cabbage, Brussels sprouts, mushrooms, truffles, turnips, 
radishes, pickles and gherkins. 

Bread should be partly replaced by potatoes, which alkalize 
the blood instead of rendering it acid. 

Spices, especially pepper, have a directly irritating effect on the 
liver with a tendency to sclerosis (Budd ; Brix). 

Dishes too much seasoned with vinegar should be avoided. 
Lemon may be taken, but in moderation. 

Herbaceous vegetables, tubercles and roots, salads, cress, 
tomatoes and even cauliflowers (but not sorrel and spinach), fresh 
cheese not too fat, lean fish (sole, whiting, mullet, turbot, haddock, 
etc.), ripe fruits of every kind, are the foods which are most suit- 
able in these cases. A mistake has been made in forbidding eggs 
and certain fresh vegetables, such as dwarf peas and French beans, 
because they contain a little cholesterin. The cholesterin which 
may be deposited in the biliary vesicle does not originate in this 
way, the special cholesterins of the foods remaining entirely 
insoluble and incapable of assimilating in the alimentary canal. 

Water and milk diluted with water, very weak tea, and all 
other harmless infusions are the beverages for these invalids. 
If there is any hepatic colic, only skimmed milk, cooling draughts 
and vegetable or farinaceous soups should be allowed. 

Inatrophic cirrhosis oi Laennec, the same diet should be followed. 

If there is biliary lithiasis, all the preceding prescriptions apply 
equally and especially to the modified milk diet. It is well in this 
case to stimulate and regulate the course of the bile by means of a 
small quantity of roast meat taken at the morning meal, and 
aided, if required, by watery wine and cholagogues. 

In ailments of the pancreas, the assimflation of fats is generally 
badly performed ; they are found undigested in the faeces. They 
may be replaced by starchy or sugared materials, at least if there 
is not glycosuria at the same time. In this case, the diet of 
diabetics is the most suitable. 

452 



DIET IN DIABETES MELLITUS 

Diet in Diabetes Mellitus. 

Diabetes is an abnormal state of the functions of nutrition, the 
primary cause of which still escapes us, or at least is very obscure. 
It consists in an abnormal urinary excretion of glucose with 
concomitant azoturia which may exceed by 50 to 100 per cent, and 
more, the normal losses in nitrogen. The principal indication in 
this ailment is to avoid everything which may excite this 
azoturia and at the same time this loss of sugar, or its accumula- 
tion in the blood. 

In the slight forms (Glycosuria), the invalid may lose from 10 to 
100 grms. of sugar per day with 2,000 to 2,500 cc. of urine. Gener- 
ally in these cases, he retains his stoutness and tlie appearances of 
health. If the carbo-hydrates in his alimentation are almost 
entirely suppressed, the greater part of the sugar rapidly dis- 
appears from the urine. In serious forms of diabetes which very 
often coincide with the alteration of the pancreas, invalids may 
lose from 300 to 1,000 grms. and more of sugar daily and pass 3, 4 
and up to 10 litres of urine in twenty-four hours. In these cases, 
whatever is done, the sugar does not disappear from the urine ; 
the invalid has no longer the power for using or destroying 
what he form-? at the expense of his protoplasmic substances. 
He rapidly becomes thin, imd:;rgoing, as it were, a melting of all his 
tissues and soon succumbs, carried off most often by tuberculosis. 

The three principal dietetic indications in diabetes are : 1st, 
to banish as far as possible every food which may furnish glucose ; 
2nd, to cure the exaggeration of nitrogenous losses by a suitable 
animal diet ; 3rd, to conform, as much as possible, to the diet 
which agrees with the pathological state of which the appearance 
of sugar in the urine is only a symptom. 

Hence the following rules : Reduction to a minimum of cane 
sugar, glucose, ordinary fecula ; alimentation in meat proportional 
to the nitrogenous dissimilation ; replacement by fatty bodies 
of the habitual starchy foods ; special diet suitable to the vicious 
or morbid constitution of the subject. 

By reduction to a minimum of the sugar and starches, we mean 
that the patient should only take the sugar and starchy matters 
which he can tolerate without the glucose of the blood passing 
perceptibly into the urine. If, for example, a glycosuric patient 
taking an average mixed alimentation, loses 50 grms. of sugar 
by his urine, he should do away with at least 50 grms. of sugar 
or starch per day, and still more if necessary, until he passes little 
or no sugar by the kidneys. 

We say : Suppression of the saccharose or cane sugar and of 
glucose, but not of levulose, a special sugar which is not sensibly 
eliminated ; reduction of starchy foods but not of those which 
Kiilz has pronounced harmless and which are rich not in ordinary 
starch, but in inulin and inosit,special starchy saccharine substances 

453 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

which are unfitted to be changed directly into glucose : such are 
Jerusalem artichokes, viper's grass, scorzonera, salsify, French 
beans, chicory, lettuce, cardoons, onions, leeks, many mush- 
rooms, etc. 

As to asparagus, radish, cress, long radishes, turnips, horse-radish 
and especially the vegetables properly so called : spinach, sorrel, 
cucumber, cole cabbage, cauliflower, sauerkraut, salads of every 
kind, these may also be taken, as they contain but very few carbo- 
hydrates. Moreover, cooking carries off from these vegetables a 
large proportion of their sugars and partly dissolves their starches, 
which disappear with the water. 

Here are some figures which prove this : — 

Carbo-Hydrates fob 100 Parts. 



Cauliflowers . 

Spinach 

Headed-cabbage 

Asparagus 

Long radishes 

Sauerkraut 



Before Cooking. 


After Cooking. 


32 


1-4 


30 


0-8 


r>.7 


3-2 


2-6 


1-6 


31 


2-4 


— 


1-2 



Thus 100 grms. of cooked asparagus only contain 16 grms. of 
carbo-hydrates, 100 grms. of cauliflowers only 14 grms. These 
foods may consequently be given to people suffering from diabetes. 

Fruits properly so called, particularly those of the rosaceae 
(peaches, apples, apricots, pears, strawberries, raspberries), con- 
taining as a rule only 5 to 6 parts of sugar and 1 to 7 of starch per 
100, may, in case of necessity, be tolerated, provided they are not 
taken in excess, as 100 to 150 grms. per day do not introduce more 
sugar than 10 to 15 grms. of bread do. Moreover half of this sugar 
is in the form of levulose which rapidly disappears from the blood 
The same may be said of the orange, lemon, pomegranate, etc. 

With still more reason may those fruits, which contain scarcely 
any sugar or starch, be sanctioned : almonds, nuts, olives. On the 
other hand, it is necessary to avoid those which are rich in sugar 
or starch : bananas, chestnuts, cherries, grapes, etc. 

Bread with its 45 per cent, of starch is not good for these invalids. 

A bread called gluten (p. 228) is made for them ; but invalids do 
not much appreciate it, and these so-called breads contain besides 
from 8 to 25 per cent., and sometimes more, of ordinary starch. 

Breads have also been made from inulin, from almonds (a fruit 
almost entirely devoid of starch) from aleuronal mixed wdth flour 
called Ebstein bread,^ from gluten mixed yi'ith vegetable powders, 

* Prepared with the part of the ghiten adhering to the episperma. It 
contains 8 to 20 per cent, only of carbo-hydrates. 

454 



DIET IN DIABETES MELLITUS 

etc. Almost alljthese preparations contain starch and the invalid 
very soon tires of them. 

It is better to replace bread by potatoes, the use of which has 
been highly recommended (Mosse). It contains, for equal weight, 
more than half less starchy principles than bread. If then, 50 
grms. of bread were tolerated, they could be replaced with ad- 
vantage by 100 to 150 grms. of potatoes. M. Mosse has shown 
that this substitution caused the urinary sugar to diminish and 
that this food was indeed of all starches that which diabetics 
tolerated best, at least in average cases, and provided it was not 
taken in excess. 

For ordinary carbo-hydrates we may substitute to a great extent, 
but not entirely, fatty bodies. This end is practically reached by 
largely adding butter, bacon, fats, olive oil, to the vegetables which 
are allowed. Cream from milk well centrifugalized scarcely con- 
tains any sugar and is most useful in these cases. As much as 
200 grms. of fatty bodies may thus be easily given daily to these 
invalids. It is not always possible to totally replace the carbo- 
hydrates, and in order to assure good assimilation it is even desir- 
able that a small quantity of starches should be given to diabetics 
in the form of bread (50 to 60 grms. per day) or potato (100 grms.). 

We have stated that the food of a diabetic should be rich in 
nitrogen and proportionate to the excess of it which they excrete 
by the urine. 

Without doubt many of these invalids eat too much from 
habit and should regulate their allowance ; but in the case of thin 
diabetics especially, consumption becomes rapid even with the 
poorest and strictest regimen. In these cases, these invalids should 
be given all the nitrogenous food they can ask for or digest ; the 
same may be said if acetonuria is established. 

The animal food of the diabetic may besides be very varied : 
meats, pork-butcher's meats, hams, game, fish, Crustacea (re- 
commended by A. Bouchardat), molluscs, smoked and salted 
provisions, internal organs with the exception of liver, eggs under 
their multiple forms (two eggs only per day if there is albuminuria), 
cheese of every kind, etc. 

As to pure milk, it should only be used rarely and moderately 
and be reserved for those cases where it is indispensable, for 
example, in albuminuric diabetics, and replaced when possible by 
cream, kephir and cheese. 

For the vegetable part of the regimen, it is advisable to 
especially use the herbaceous foods already indicated. 

Spices and condiments of every kind are necessary to these 
invalids to facilitate the digestion of the fats. It is the same with 
coffee and tea. It is permissible, if it is absolutely necessary, to 
sweeten these infusions very slightly with a little saccharine or 
dulcin, although these medicaments quickly fatigue the stomach. 

455 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Levulose, erythrite and inosit would be preferable if it were not 
for their price. Generous wines and even cognac bring a valuable 
element of calorification. Alcohol facilitates the digestion of the 
fats and in certain cases diminishes the glycosuria and azoturia. 
But beer ought only to be allowed very occasionally to diabetics 
by reason of its dextrin. Cocoa without sugar, which is very poor 
in starch, may be allowed. 

Foods which it is necessary to forbid are : the feculents and 
flours of cereals and leguminosae, rice, tapioca, ordinary bread to a 
greater amount than 80 to 100 grma, per day. In serious 
cases, where it is necessary to make the invalid absorb large 
quantities of nitrogenous foods, we may authorize all the vegetables 
poor in carbo-hydrates which will allow of the digestion and absorp- 
tion of fat meat. Peas, carrots, beetroots ; all sweet fruits, 
pure milk (in case of need test the susceptibihty of the invalid), 
cane sugar, honey, liqueurs, chocolate, beer, sweetened lemonades 
are also forbidden. 

The beverages to be recommended are : Wine diluted witli 
water, pure water, water with the addition of tea or the juice of a 
lemon, etc. 

I will now give as an example (it may be varied very much) the 
calculation of a normal diabetic diet. Here is an average patient 
who loses each day with an ordinary mixed diet proportional 
to his weight, 42grms. of total urinary nitrogen, corresponding to 
266 grms. of dry albuminoids. This subject weighs 70 kgs. 
and consumes about 3,000 to 3,200 Calories per twenty -four hours 
(an average figure for these invalids). The following alimentation 
will meet perfectly these losses and needs : — 



Foods. 



Quantities. 



Beef or mutton (bone 

not included) 
Gluten bread . 
Green vegetables 
Potatoes . 
Fish . . . 
Cream 

Butter and fats 
Cheese 
Wine . 



Corresponding Calories: 

For 40 grms. of alcohol 

(see above) 320 Cals. 



900 grms. 



70 
300 

60 
150 
100 
100 

60 
500 cc. or 40 



„of 



alcohol 



Containing : 



Albu- 
minoids. 



Fats. 



180 grms. 40*8 grms. 



35 
16 

0-8 
23 

3-7 

1-0 
19 

1 



2-7 

0-07 

21 

22-7 

85 

17 



273-5 



; 170-37 



1,121 Cal. 1,600 Cal. 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



3"2 grms. 

10-3 „ 
13-0 „ 
12 

4-2 „ 
0-7 „ 



45-4 



186 Cal. 
320 „ 



606 Cal. 



456 



DIET IN PHOSPHATURIA 

We see that this diet, which only introduces 45" 4 grms. of starchy 
or siigared matters per day (instead of 380 grms. which is the 
ordinary rate), nevertheless furnishes to these invahds 3,227 
Calories per twenty-four hours, including the quantity of heat 
attributable to the combustion of 40 grms. of alcohol. This 
alimentation may be modified besides, by substituting eggs for fish, 
and even, as we have already said, a part of the potatoes by a 
little ordinary bread for which diabetics are most anxious. 

It is evident (and this observation has often been made already 
and may apply to all invalids) that the treatment of the diabetic 
patient, and no longer of diabetes, cannot be the same in every 
case. Hitherto we have only had in view two indications : to 
prevent the production of sugar, to supply the exaggerated nitro- 
genous losses. But a gouty, dyspeptic, obese, ana3mic, lymphatic , 
scrofulous or consumptive diabetic subject, a subject who only 
loses a few grammes of sugar per day and the one whose urine 
contains hundreds of grammes, and who is threatened with 
tuberculosis, etc., all these invalids should be very differently fed. 
In the different cases, in a word, we must satisfy at the same time 
the indications of the diabetic condition, and also the indication 
of the disease of which diabetes may only be one of the multiple 
manifestations. 

AZOTURIA — PnOSrHATURIA. 

In polyuria with immoderate loss of nitrogen without there being 
any sensible amount of sugar in the urine {Diabetes insipidus), 
the state of the invalid no longer requires abstinence from carbo- 
hydrates (sugar and starch). In this case again, the diet ought to 
be rich in nitrogenous matters but without excess of these latter 
in order not to increase the polyuria too much. The mode of 
dieting will be fixed by basing it on the preceding considerations 
and particularly on the quantity of the loss of total urinary 
nitrogen. 

I repeat that salt, coffee in large quantities, glycerine, wine, 
aromatic foods and medicines, diminish all the nitrogenous 
secretions. 

Phosphaturia with excess of daily elimination of phosphates is 
produced, more or less temporarily, in invalids suffering from 
nervous or pulmonary affections, in polyurics, diabetics, persons 
suffering from chorea and leucocythemia, chlorotics, dyspeptics, 
in invalids suffering from atrophy of the liver, and finally after an 
attack of epilepsy. The diet is in each of these cases that 
which suits these invalids. 

Foods which best allow the recuperation of the phosphorus thus 
lost are meat, fish, Crustacea, brains, milts, yolk of egg, sweet- 
bread, bread, and above all, seed vegetables. 

Real phosphaturia must not be confused with the deposit of 

457 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

phosphates which takes place, visibly in the urine, each time it loses 
its normal acidity, and without the quantity of total phosphoric 
acid eliminated being thereby modified. This phenomenon is 
produced in many cases by reason of the want of acidity of the 
urine (neurasthenia, polyuria, inflammation of the urinary 
passages, etc.) and without the quantity of the phosphates 
eliminated in the twenty -four hours being on that account sensibly 
increased. 

Excess of elimination of phosphates by the urine may some- 
times be due to the exaggeration of phosphorated alimentation ; 
that again is not real phosphaturia. Phosphaturia properly so 
called only exists if the quantity of phosphoric acid reckoned in 
P^O^ exceeds 4 grms. to 4| grms. per day, or 18 per cent, of 
the weight of the total nitrogen excreted. There are azoturia and 
phosphaturia together if, with these exaggerated proportions of 
phosphoric acid, the average nitrogen eliminated per twenty-four 
hours exceeds 20 to 22 gnms., the diet remaining otherwise average. 



458 



XLI 

DIETS IN CASES OF NEPHRITIS — DISEASES OF THE URINARY 
PASSAGES — UR/EMIA 

ATEPHRITIS. — In nephritis, caused by renal elimination of 
certain toxins (cholera, measles, small -pox, diphtheria, 
scarlatina, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, etc.) or by various poisons 
(arsenic, phosphorus, cantharidine, lead, mercury, alcohol, etc.), 
in those which are due to the effect on the kidneys of functional 
troubles of the skin provoked by colds, burns and various 
cutaneous diseases, in parenchymatous and interstitial nephritis, 
the kidney acts as an obstructed filter, which only allows the 
waste substances arising from the nitrogenous dissimilation to 
pass with difficulty, and therefore only slowly clears the system 
of its products of excretion. On the other hand, it may allow 
a variable proportion of the albumins of the blood to beexsuded. 
The alimentary proteid matters themselves are able to pass 
tiirough it, even in the normal state, when they are absorbed in 
very large proportions, or when the patient is submitted to very 
violent exercise which congests the organ. 

The relative impermeability of the kidney can be measured 
by the time that it takes to rid the system of methylene blue 
which the patient has been made to swallow. Again it is recog- 
nized by the retardation which waste matters experience in pass- 
ing into urine, when the proteid materials of the allowance are 
suddenly augmented or diminished. With regard to this, here 
is a table borrowed from Hirchfeld : — 





Alimentary 
Albumin per day. 


Daily Elimination. 




Healthy Kidney. 


Diseased Kidney. 




Nitrogen. 


Nitrogen. | Albumin. 


1st day . 


70 grms. 


10-1 grms. 


9-3 grms. 


2-6 grms. 


2nd „ . . 


130 „ 


14-5 „ 


11-7 „ 


— 


3rd „ . . 


130 „ 


18-6 „ 


12-7 „ 


— 


4th „ . . 


130 „ 


19-2 „ 


14-0 „ 


30 „ 


5th „ . . 


130 „ 


19-9 „ 


14-8 „ 


403 „ 


6th „ . . 


70 „ 


lfi-2 „ 


14-2 „ 


— 


7th „ . . 


70 „ 


12-9 „ 


15-2 „ 


— 


8th „ . . 


70 „ 


10-9 „ 


14-4 „ 


— 



459 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

We see that, according to these figures, the elimination of 
nitrogen rapidly falls, in the case of a healthy subject, on the 
sixth day as soon as the alimentary albumin is diminished ; on 
the other hand, in the case of the diseased kidney, the surcharge 
of blood maintains, even beyond the eighth day, the excess of 
nitrogenous renal dissimilation. 

The impermeability of the kidney shows itseK more com- 
pletely still if, after the injection or absorption of 8 to 10 grms. 
of salt, an incomplete elimination of this substance is observed 
during the following days (Achard, Claude and Maute) ; but 
especially if the chloride of sodium only appears twelve to twenty 
hours afterwards and if its elimination takes several days more.^ 

Chronic nephritis is usually accompanied by albuminuria 
(0-5 grm. to 3'5 grms. of albumin per day, seldom more). The 
urine for twenty-four hours is reduced to 800 and sometimes 
even to 500 cc. 

A person suffering from Bright's disease is as a rule dyspep- 
tic ; he suffers from want of appetite and diarrhoea. He 
utilizes his food badly ; he assimilates it incompletely. He is 
sometimes azoturic. 

From these various remarks we shall conclude that since a 
diseased kidney cannot, in these different cases, easily purify 
the blood and tissues of their toxins and other offensive pro- 
ducts, it is necessary to reduce the latter to a minimum by dimin- 
ishing the consumption of the principles from which they origin- 
ate, at the same time sustaining the patient whose assimilative 
functions are weakened. 

Fish, Crustacea, game, sweet-bread of veal, kidneys and espe- 
cially liver, must then disappear from his alimentation ; also 
gelatinous dishes, broth and meat juice, fermented cheese, very 
much salted foods, strong spices, beer, coffee, tea, brandy and, 
if necessary, wine. Amongst vegetables onions, garlic, radishes, 
celery, cabbages, asparagus, turnips, truffles and mushrooms 
will be forbidden. 

A milk diet is in these cases well indicated. Since Chrestien 
and Semmola, we know that rest and milk are great remedies 
for chronic nephritis ; skim milk, however, is better supported 
than pure milk. But the milk diet, in France at least, is applied 
with exaggerated severity. The digestive troubles that it may 
provoke, the abundance of liquid which it introduces, the heart 
fatigue and anaemia that it causes, finalyl, the necessity of 
building up again the strength of the invalid, who most often 
eats little and lives at the expense of his own substance, gener- 
ally oblige us to have recourse to a mixed diet that Von 

1 In these eases it would be preferable to administer bromide or iodide 
of potassium and to measure the quantities eliminated each day by the 
urine. 

460 



DIET IN NEPHRITIS 

Norden, Senator, Lecorche and Talamon, Hale, White, Polidoro 
Lucci, etc., have recognized as being more favourable than milk 
taken alone, at least if the kidneys are still moderately perme- 
able. In this case, cheeses, bread and pastes, soups made 
from meal, purees of dry vegetables and potatoes, rice, fresh 
herbaceous vegetables with the exception of asparagus and cab- 
bages, all fruits may be given to these invalids without danger. 
These foods do not produce, or only in a very small quantity, 
urinary toxins. The same may be said of well cooked eggs, 
according to the observations of Oertel,^ Ewald, Lowenmeyer,^ 
Hartmann, and of meat itself, which in the average case may be 
taken in a small quantity (100 grms. per day). It is curious to 
notice, in this respect, tliat, of all kinds of meat, pork is the 
best supported by persons suffering from Bright's disease, then 
beef and lastly veal, high game and fish. 

It is also shown in a remarkable work of MM. F. Widal and 
A. JavaP that beef, bread, etc., may enter fairly largely into the 
diet of those afflicted with Bright's disease, if these foods are 
taken without salt, a condition which suffices to diminish the 
urinary albumin and to cause the oedema, if it exists, to dis- 
appear. According to these last authors, it is in fact more by 
the small proportion of salt which it introduces than by the 
nature of the principles themselves of milk, that the milk diet 
acts in diseases of the kidney. 

A person suffering from Bright's disease placed on a milk diet 
and who did not lose more than 2 5 grms. of urinary albumin per 
day (instead of 12 grms. as before), had 10 grms. of salt added 
to the milk : the quantity of urine diminished by 600 cc, oedema 
reappeared, and the urinary albumin rose to 11 grms. The milk 
was replaced by 450 grms. of raw meat, 1,000 grms. of potatoes, 
100 grms. of sugar, 80 grms. of butter, 2,500 of water or diet- 
drink, the whole without the addition of salt. Under the 
action of this diet, the albumin fell to 1 grm., the urine passed 
from 1,500 cc. to 2,000 cc. and the oedema disappeared.* 

With regard to this, here are, according to Ch. Richet and 
Lapicque, the necessary quantities of chlorine contained in our 
ordinary foods : — 

Wine . . . 0-03 grms. per kg. Dry vegetables 0-60 grms. per kg. 

Bread without 

salt . . . 0-09 „ 

Fruits and vege- 
tables without 
salt . . 0-30 „ „ 

Fecula . . 0-30 „ 

1 Handbuch der allg. Ther. der Kreislaufstorungen, 1884, p. 108. 

2 Deuts. Zeitsch. f. klin. Med., Bd. X, 3, p. 252. 

3 Presse Medicate, June 27, 1903, p. 469. 

* Does the milk act at the same time by its poorness in chloride and by 
a kind of specific action ? M. Jaccoud affirms that in the case of people 

461 



Meat 


0-60 


Eggs . . 


MO 


Milk . . 


MO 


Salted bread, 




about . 


2 



1 14 

1 
120 


grros. 
grm. 


2-20 
340 


grms. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Our average daily alimentation contains, in the natural state, 
about 1 grm, of salt, but we add besides 10 to 12 grms. of salt 
which we may in these cases avoid. MM. Ch. Richet and Tou- 
louse have indicated the following regimens of hypochlorida- 
tion^ : — 

I. Foods of the ordinary allowance not salted ; contain 

Chloride of sodiuni in the natural state, about 1 grm. 
500 grms. of non-salted bread . . . 014 „ 

Total salt 

II. Foods of the ordinary allowance ; NaCl about 

Salted bread, 500 grms. .... 

Total salt 

III. Milk diet, 3 litres of milk ; NaCl about 

IV. Diet comprising 3 litres of milk with 500 grms. of 

salted bread ; NaCl about .... 6-40 „ 

When, in a case of Bright's disease, there is much albumin 
(more than 3 to 4 grms. per litre) difficult and slow filtration of 
salt given as a t&st, subacute attacks of nephritis, oedema, 
signs of uraemia and consequently difficult renal permeability 
and danger of eclampsia (in the case of a pregnant woman the 
least quantity of albumin in the urine accehtuates this danger), 
the doctor should have recourse to an exclusive milk diet. Fur- 
ther, powders of casein may be added to the milk as also fresh 
cheeses or cheeses d pate cuite but not salted. However, 
even in the majority of these cases, it wotdd seem, according to 
the observations of MM. Widal and Javal, that one could have 
recourse again to an ordinary diet provided salt is excluded 
from it as much as possible. According to them, dechlorida- 
tion of the foods, that of the plasmas, dehydration of the tissues 
and the disappearance of oedema, foUow the same cycle. Boiled 
meat without salt, bread without salt, rice, pastry, alimentary 
non-salted pastes, and sweet fruits would be suitable at this 
period of Bright's disease. 

In order to pass from the milk diet, more or less modified, to 
the ordinary diet, we should come back again to bread and green 
vegetables, then to potatoes, eggs, dry vegetables, later on to 
pork and finally to beef, all the time watching the urine for the 
reappearance of albumin. 

Alcoholic liquors, especially cider and beer, spices and smoked 

suffering from Bright's disease submitted to a strict milk diet, the albu- 
min often reappears in the urine during the night, that is to say, in the 
period of the twenty-four hours in which the milk is withdrawn. The 
milk would appear, he thinks, to play a specific role in checking the albu- 
minuria which would correspond, during sleep, to the dissimilation 
of the albuminoid tissues of the invalid. (P. Prieur, Theses de Par?* 1903.) 
1 Traitement par la bromuration et Vhypochloruration. Monde 

Medical, February 15, 1904. 

462 



DIET IN NEPHRITIS 

meats, ought to be forbidden to people afflicted with Bright's 
disease. 

In acute or chronic albuminuria, a diet composed of 2 5 litres of 
milk, 200 grms. of bread and 50 grms. of Gruyere would furnish_: — 





Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


2,500 cc. milk 

200 grms. of bread or 100 grms. of 

biscuit 

50 grms. of cheese 


70 

20-8 
16-2 


85 

1-7 
14 


130 
127 




107-0 


100-7 


257 



This diet would furnish 2,420 Calories per day. It would 
fatigue the kidney less than if it were necessary to obtain solely 
from 4 litres of milk the whole of the alimentary principles. It 
is certain that the exclusive milk diet recommended so often 
and in such an exaggerated degree, leads to a useless overload- 
ing in water and fat of the tissues of the stomach, intestine and 
kidneys ; a hypertension of the vessels of the heart, and 
certainly, in many cases, to satiety and repulsion for the invalid. 

In cases where milk causes diarrhoea, a little subnitrate of 
bismuth can be added to it, or one might try almond milk, 
casein soups, kephir, etc. 

In cases of dropsy due to Bright's disease, milk and foods 
without salt are efficacious. The patient must only be given 
light meals and his beverages reduced to a minimum ; tea and 
coffee which provoke diuresis and tone up and accelerate the 
heart, may be allowed. 

Cystitis. — Cystitis may be dealt with by the diet which agrees 
with nephritics ; milk with the addition of different flours, yolk of 
egg, vegetable and bread soups, raw or cooked fruits, etc. These 
invalids should abstain from spices, juices and extracts of meat, 
beef-tea, alcohol, coffee, wine and beer, and only use foods of 
animal origin with moderation. 

Veal and fish should be forbidden. They irritate the urinary 
passages and produce eczematous eruptions and oozings which may 
even sometimes bring blood. 

The invalid should dilute as much as possible his urine by 
drinking abundantly pure or slightly alkaline water (Soultz- 
matt. Saint Galmier, Seltz), decoctions of barley or the male 
tops of maize and balsamic drinks. Milk, cream and milk soups, 
emulsions of almond, yolk of egg and sugar dissolved in hot 
water, white cheese are also indicated. Fruits (grapes, pears, 
apples, etc.) cooked or raw, in jelly, etc., are favourable because 
they alkalize the urine and saturate the acids originating from 

463 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

the dissimilation of the albuminoids. If there is a tendency 
to the formation of deposits of urates, of urinary calculi, phos- 
phaturia, oxaluria or gout, the diet should be made to conform 
with what has been said a propos of these diseases. 

Blennorrhagia. — The same mild diet with great diminution 
of meat, complete abstinence from fish, veal and Crustacea, 
a predominance of milk, exclusion of stimulating dishes, which 
are highly spiced or too salted, of coffee, spices, wine, and beer 
is suitable, especially at the commencement of blennorrhagia. 
Later on, purees made from seed vegetables, herbaceous veget- 
ables, eggs and ham may be substituted for milk. Some vegetable 
foods : garlic, onions, celery, mustard, radish and asparagus ought 
to be avoided. 



464 



XLII 

diet in chronic diseases of the heart and vessels — 
pulmonary diseases 

Diet in Diseases of the Heart and Vessels 

r^ISEASES of the Heart. — According to M. Huchard, whose 
authority is so great in all matters concerning disorders 
of the circulatory organs, in cardiac affections, modifications 
of the arterial tension play the principal part. According to 
him, organic cardiac ailments should be divided into valvular 
and arterial, " the first characterized by their continual and 
progressive tendency to the lowering of the arterial tension ; 
the second characterized, especially at the beginning, by a con- 
trary tendency to hypertension." ^ 

Asystole, tachycardia, weakness of the heart, embryocardia 
and collapse, are signs of hypertension. It appears to result 
from the action of the toxins, generally of bacterial origin, on 
the bulbar centres which control the circulation. These char- 
acteristics are met with in typhoid fever, typhus, broncho- 
pneumonia, meningitis, serious eruptive fevers, influenza, tuber- 
culosis, angina pectoris, certain cases of poisoning (trinitrine, 
an overdose of opium, etc.). 

The regimen in these cases will be that which corresponds to 
these various ailments. Wine or alcohol in sufficient quantity 
(Stockes), thin soups (Ewald),- coffee and caffein (Huchard),^ 
tea, chocolate, aromatic condiments, etc., are in these cases 
particularly useful. It is necessary for the patient to abstain 
with care from fat and too starchy foods, when the heart is 
threatened with fatty degeneration, from salted foods if there 
is oedema. With feeble arterial tension, renal filtration is always 
badly effected and nitrogenous, particularly animal alimentation, 

1 Traite des maladies du casur et dea vaisseaux, 4th edition. 

2 M. Huchard is not much in favour of soup which introduces, he thinks, 
too many toxins derived from muscular tissue. But I would remark 
that the soluble parts of meat are only toxic by their excess and are, on 
the contrary, excellent heart tonics in a small quantity like those found 
in some cups of soup. If the kidney is healthy, light soup is therefore 
better to be recommended, as Ewnld states. 

■' As medicines, ergot of rye, strychnine, injections of ether. 

465 H H 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

should be diminished as much as possible, as Huchard has shown . 
Drinks should be moderate rather than abundant. Injections 
of artificial serum (water 1,000 grms., salt 8) may be very useful. 

It is quite otherwise in ailments with arterial hypertension ; 
sclerosis and hypertrophy of the heart ; arterio-sclerosis, arterial 
cardiopathies of acute rheumatism, of gout and diabetes ; 
myocarditis, aortitis, angina pectoris by alteration of the arteries 
of the heart or by the action of special toxins, renal or hepatic 
insufficiency, etc. Here, not only may diet have a great influence 
on the course of the ailment, but, as Huchard has empliatically 
established in his important publications, it is to errors of diet, 
it is in the application of an irrational diet, badly balanced or 
wrongly utilized by the subject, that most often it is necessary to* 
seek for the effective course which originates troubles of the 
heart and of the arterial circulation. It is consequently by 
influencing, from the very first, the diet, that we must endeavour 
to check the course of the pathological modifications which 
would slowly and continuously tend towards arterio-sclerosis 
and myocarditis. " I am convinced," says M. Huchard, " that 
excess, and especially errors in diet, by throwing into the system 
a great number of toxic substances, such as the ptomaines not 
eliminated by the renal filter which has early become insufficient 
and impermeable, are a frequent cause of arterio-sclerosis. . . . 
The result is, in the entire arterial system, a state of spasm more 
or less permanent, which first produces hypertension and follow- 
ing on that, arterio-sclerosis. The conclusion is this : that it is 
necessary to prescribe a diet from which all foods more or less 
rich in ptomaines and in extractive matters are excluded." ^ 

As the same author has established by 20 years of clinical 
study,^ among the determining causes of arterio-sclerosis 
connected especially with hygiene or dietetics we shall particu- 
larly mention : Alcoholism, oversmoking, abuse of spices, which 
moderate or check the movement of denutrition, excess at table, 
and particularly an alimentation too rich in meats which acidify 
the blood, diminish the oxidations, and tend to form deposits 
of urates, phosphates, etc. All these waste products, all these 
mineral salts, by diminishing the elasticity of the vessels which 
they cram up little by little, increase in consequence the fatigue 
of the heart which is obliged to struggle against these passive 
resistances. 

Intellectual or physical overwork by retarding or moderating 
the nutrition and dissimilation may act in the same way. 

From these different considerations, the question of the diet 
of these predisposed patients, and especially of patients suffering 

1 Huchard, loc. cit., p. 788. 

2 See Consultations medicates, vol. II, J. B. Baillicre, publisher, 

466 



J 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 

from cardiac hypertension, resolves itself quite naturally. Tliey 
must be fed on foods which leave the minimum of nitrogenous 
wastes, which do nob acidify the blood, and which do not 
encumber either the arteries, kidney or liver. This amounts 
practically to the milk diet (Huchard, Mitchell, Schombert, etc.). 
But, in spsaking of this diet (p. 413), we have shown how it 
should be rationally supplied. Here especially where it is neces- 
sary to combat arterial hypertension it is not an absolute milk 
diet which suits : it is necessary to qualify it by the addition of 
sugar, vegetables, cream, preparations of casein, etc., and even 
of a little meat and, if need be, of a smaU quantity of cognac, 
curagao or rum. The invalid can thus be perfectly fed not with 
3 litres, but with 1,800 grms. and less of milk, without enfeebling 
the heart too much, without increasing the arterial tension 
which would increase the absorption of large quantities of 
liquid, and without compelling the kidney to secrete too large 
a proportion of urine. 

Rumpf and Karell have quite wrongly rejected milk diet on 
the ground that it brings to the coats of the arteries too much 
lime. This theoretical objection collapses before clinical facts, 
and before this observation, that lime is furnished to us in an 
otherwise very important proportion by vegetable aliments, 
which it is impossible to do without in these cases. 

A little meat may be added to the milk, beef or fish boiled, 
and consequently, to a large extent, deprived of their extract ; 
they may be eaten with vegetables and a very little salt. They 
may be accompanied by a little cooked ham, eggs, fresh or cooked 
cheese, etc., for it is necessary to sustain the heart, which grows 
tired. Finally, a part of the albuminoids borrowed from the 
meat and milk may be replaced by the vegetable proteid materials 
of seed vegetables. Recourse should be had at the same time 
to other foods of vegetable origin, with the exception of cabbages, 
turnips, mushrooms, strawberries and especially celery, of all 
dishes too aromatic, and of uncooked things. 

Again, it is necessary to exclude from the alimentation of these 
invalids, all food which may over-excite the heart in a state of 
hypertension : Coffee, tea, chocolate, liqueurs, generous wines, 
vanilla, cinnamon, spices, food too much salted, extract of meat, 
thick soups, soups too highly seasoned or too hot, " advanced " 
cheese, salt provisions, pork-butcher's meat, etc., all that in- 
creases the tension of the arteries and in consequence the diffi- 
culties and fatigue already experienced by the heart, whose 
impaired muscular power is forced to make the blood mass 
circulate through a collection of vessels already contracted or 
but httle elastic. Hence also the need for diminishing the 
quantities of Uquid, and consequently of milk, by modif\nng, as 
we have already said, the strict milk diet, and only drinking 

467 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

what is necessary, choosing particularly diuretic waters (Martigny, 
Vittel, Contrexeville, Capvern, etc.). 

But, when the heart is growing weak, and its strength getting 
exhausted, and in the periods of asystole and dyspnoea, coffee, 
tea, wine, brandy and injections of artificial serum are on the 
contrary indicated. 

If there were cardiac oedema, it would be necessary to abstain 
as much as possible from all salt food. 

In great nervous or reflex anginas, meat is rather useful. It 
is expedient to avoid only too abundant meals, indigestible 
dishes, too exciting foods, fried fish, fish too fat, vegetables too 
fibrous or too aromatic, vanilla, coffee, liqueurs, chocolate, 
salt, etc. 

In these cases it is prudent also to take only a frugal meal in 
the evening. 

If, with arterial hypertension there is 'plethora, if the heart is 
large and hypertrophied, the pulse strong, if there are palpitations, 
a tendency to cerebral congestions, a full-blooded aspect, signs 
more or less developed of arterio-sclerosis, etc., it is necessary 
to have recourse to a considerable reduction of food, especially 
of nitrogenous food, and to suppress all condiments which excite 
the appetite and circulation, wine, coffee, spices, etc., in a word, 
we must follow the most severe regimen previously indicated 
for cardiac hypertension. 

Slight and repeated purgatives are in these cases almost a part 
of the dietetic treatment. 

Arteriosclerosis. — The invasion of the arterial coats by salts 
of lime, phosphates, urates, and other residues which little by 
little encumber the coats to which the vessels owe their natural 
elasticitj^ and their resistance, constitute a fault of arterial 
nutrition which is frequently met with amongst the gouty, the 
arthritic, the rheumatic, the plethoric and drinkers, especially 
beer drinkers, great eaters, and more particularly great meat 
eaters, etc. This last observation is enough to prevent our 
acceptance of the opinion of Karell and Senator who, on account 
of the excess of lime found in the state of phosphates, urates and 
carbonates in the arterial coats of these invalids object, as has 
already been said, to the employment of milk in the treatment 
of these invalids. Milk and vegetables, foods so rich in lime, do 
not possess, as is known in cases of gout, muscular rheumatism, 
arthritis, and in consequence arterio-sclerosis, the harmful 
influence of meats which only contain very little lime, nor above 
all the harmful influence of the abuse of too exciting foods which 
do not contain them, such as coffee, alcohol, generous wines, 
beer, spices, bitter or aromatic condiments. All that tends to 
produce in tlie system puric bodies (uric acid, xanthin, adenin, 
etc.) on the one hand, and on the other all that may impede the 

468 



TUBERCULOSIS 

movement of cellular dissimilation, must, above everything, be 
avoided. The dietary for arthritics and plethorics is then that 
which is best suited for these invalids. 

Hcemorrlmges. — In the course of all hiemorrhage, it is necessary 
to restrict diet, and to follow the rules previously indicated in 
cases of arterio-sclerosis and plethora — to avoid above all drinks, 
soups and foods too hot, all irritant condiments, all excitants of 
the heart, coffee, tea, aerated waters, abundant aqueous drinks. 
If there be intestinal haemorrhage, the patient should be kept 
to skim milk and very liglit soups, decoctions of gelatine, rice, 
barley, and in grave cases recourse should be had to injections 
of serum and to rectal feeding if necessarj', as has been already 
advised in the case of ulcer. 

Chronic Diseases of the Lung — Tuberculosis. 

Chronic and apyretic diseases of the lung, like asthma and 
emphysema, appear little amenable to dietetic treatment. For 
them, special medical treatment, not to be examined here, 
is above all necessary. We have nothing precise to say on 
the subject of the alimentation of these invalids. 

The same does not apply to pulmonary tuberculosis, whether 
it is apyretic or almost apyretic or febrile. 

Man is not born tuberculous ; he becomes so when the body is 
propitious or prepared by general atony, chlorosis, anaemia, 
overwork, physiological misery, scrofula, dyspepsia, diabetes, etc., 
to receive and nourish the microbe. It seems then advisable 
first, to point out here how, by dietary, it is possible for the organism 
to obtain the maximum of resistance to the development of this 
disease. 

Empiricism has established that nitrogenous and fatty foods, 
rich in phosphorus, are the most suitable to put the system in a 
state of defence against Koch's microbe. Among these, the best 
dietetic means to protect the individual against the invasion of 
tuberculosis and tlie destruction of the principal tissues are 
meat, fish, brains, milk, fat, especially of animal origin (cod 
liver oil is the best example in the order of medicaments) with 
exercise in the open air which furthers nutrition. 
' When the disease is established, food is of more importance 
than medicine ; therefore we sliall not separate here the apyretic 
tuberculous from the febrile tuberculous. What is neccvssary 
before all, is to make these patients take a substantial nourisliment 
whicli repairs, as much as possible, tlie losses, often enormous, 
of nitrogen and carbon, which take place every day by the 
kidney, skin and lung. Unfortunately dyspepsia has most often 
prepared the way for the disease and it is only confirmed with it. 
The appetite rapidly disappears, especially if there is fever ; a 

469 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

state of chronic stomachic and intestinal atony, generally 
accompanied by hjrpochlorhydria, stubborn constipation and 
later diarrhcBa, render all rational alimentation difficult or pre- 
carious. 

Sometimes when by hygienic care, life in the open air, rest, 
tannic and iodized medication, and especially the preparations 
of organic arsenic, the invalid has been toned up, the nutritive 
functions, especially the intestinal functions, awakened, sleep 
restored, nocturnal sweats which are so weakening made to 
disappear, the fever, when existing, partly lowered, then the 
alimentary treatment may be applied and will assure either a 
cure or a very long resistance to the malady. 

If the tuberculous patient is apyretic, he must feed abundantly, 
but it must be remembered that these subjects are generally 
dyspeptic and cannot digest excessive amounts of food. 

Sleepiness after meals, heaviness of the stomach, indigestion, 
diarrhoea, etc., are the signs of overfeeding. Pyrosis, stomachic 
pains, during the night especially, hot flushings of the face show 
stomachic hypersthenia or hyperchlorhydria. 

For the rest, no matter what has been said, the excess of food, 
even when well digested, the overloading of the stomach and 
fattening up, do not cure these invalids. If, after having become 
much thinner under tlie influence of medical and dietetic treat- 
ment, the tuberculous patient has gradually almost regained 
the weight which he had before falling ill, we must not go beyond 
that, nothing will be gained thereby. 

In these cases the most valuable foods are : Milk, yolk of eggs 
and milts, meat, Crustacea, fish, bread, seed vegetables, fatty 
bodies, red wine, cocoa, coffee. 

The best milks are those of the mare and ass. The stomach 
digests these most easily ; cow's milk only comes a long way 
after. Mare's or ass's milk has a very remarkable influence on 
nutrition, which it regulates, and on the evolution of the disease, 
which it checks. It should be taken warmed only in the water 
bath, and better still directly it comes from the udder, morning 
and evening, but not while eating or soon after, when the digestion 
of the previous meal is not yet finished, or else it causes diarrhoea. 
These milks are much more useful uncooked than cooked ; they 
have then a very remarkable effect. Long after them comes cow's 
milk ; it may be taken uncooked if the cow is healthy, or cooked 
under the form of a drink or boiled with rice, flours of barley, 
rye, wheat, oats, with or without the addition of yolk of egg, 
sugar, coffee, cocoa, etc. This milk may be mixed with a little 
brandy, cura9ao and vanilla ; or taken sterilized ; to be taken cold 
if there is any tendency to ha?morrhage. It should be re- 
membered that many stomachs digest milk sterilized but not 
uncooked ; but heated milk has lost its ferments. 

470 



TUBERCULOSIS 

The quantity of milk to be given to the patient depends at the 
same time on his capabiUty of supporting it, and on the nature 
and quantity of the other foods. But he ought to take at least 
700 to 800 cc. per day. 

Certain invalids can only digest milk mixed with cognac 
(30 to 60 cc. per day) or with good Kirschwasser. This mixture 
is good for them. 

Of the alcoholic derivatives of milk, kephir and koumiss, the 
first only is nowadays prepared in our large towns. Many 
people who cannot digest milk can take kephir. It may be 
taken under the guise of a drink, but it cannot always be given 
in sufficient quantity on account of its acidity ; at least all 
stomachs cannot get accustomed to it. Nevertheless, nothing 
would prevent the acidity from being almost entirely neutralized 
by a little bicarbonate of soda or Vichy water. 

Eggs may be given to tuberculous patients under all forms 
compatible with the tastes of the invalid. It is better, when 
possible, only to use the yolk ; after having separated it from 
tlie white without destroying its membranous envelope, it is 
sprinkled with a little lemon juice, it is salted (or not) very lightly 
on the surface, and swallowed down at a draught as one would 
take a large pill, either at breakfast or lunch, etc., and always at 
the end of a meal. Five to six yolks of fresh eggs may be thus 
easily taken in the twenty-four hours. 

Fish, a food very rich in phosphorus, may be given every day, 
either grilled or boiled, but not fried. Sea fish especially, cooked 
in salt water with a great many condiments, and better still shell- 
fish (lobsters, crayfish) convey to the system a very appreciable 
quantity of organic phosphorus which replaces that which the 
invalid dissimilates rapidly. The same may be said of brains, 
sweet-bread, etc. 

As to meat, it ought to be eaten partly roasted, partly raw. 
For this last, it is necessary to take mutton or even horse : it is 
scraped with a knife and made into a pulp from which five to six 
large pellets are made from 20 to 25 grms. each ^ ; they are 
sprinkled with some drops of lemon or brandy and are 
sivallowed without being masticated at the end of the meal when the 
appetite is already satisfied. It is the only method of well sup- 
porting this very important supplement of food. Raw meat 
brings with it not only its alible principles, but its assimilating 
ferments or very active exciters of the nutrition. 

Bread, especially well baked almost entirely formed of crust, 
is an excellent food for tuberculous patients. Crust contains, 
it is known, about 13 per cent, of nitrogenous matters easily 

1 250 grms. of butcher's meat grated, only give 120 to 140 grms. of 
quite homogeneous pu\p deprived of tendons, membranes, etc. 

471 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

digested and 67 per cent, of starch and dextrins. Bread is 
besides rich in nucleins, phytin and other phosphorated principles 
which make up the deficit caused by rapid dissimilation of the 
organic phosphorus of the system. Biscuits, rusks, etc., fill the 
same role. 

Flours of leguminos.TG, diastased or not, and seed vegetables 
(peas, haricots, lentils, decorticated beans, etc.) are also foods 
well fitted to restore rapidly the losses in nitrogen, phosphorus 
and carbon which exhaust these invalids. Of all the animal or 
vegetable foods, it is these which contain phosphorus under 
the most assimilable form (p. 210). From this point of view 
farinaceous vegetables are more valuable even than eggs. 

As to the herbaceous vegetables, in these cases they fulfil a 
triple indication : they help to combat the constipation, often 
stubborn, which torments these invalids ; they bring them iron 
in the form of hematogen, that is to say under the form the best 
suited to combat anaemia and the alteration of the blood glo- 
bules without congesting the lung or exciting cou^h; they con- 
tribute towards furnishing a large proportion of lime and mag- 
nesia necessary to the tissues, which in these invalids tend to 
become impoverished in these two bases. 

Fatty bodies are indispensable to the tuberculous, especially 
if they have fever. Formerly they were made to take cod liver 
oil which their atonic stomach supported and digested badly. 
To-day cream, butter and other fat foods, when they can digest 
them, which may be rendered easier by a little old wine, are 
strongly recommended. Cream and fresh butter of such easy 
digestion thus permit of 80 to 100 grms., and more, per day of 
fatty matters being acceptable to these invalids without too 
much difficulty. 

Coffee, tea, cocoa and red wine, which with their organic iron 
bring also their precious tannins ; sweetened dishes, brandy and 
alcohol in all its forms, but always in small quantities,^ in a word 
all the foods called " sparing " are particularly useful to them. 

If, however, there were any tendency to congestion, spitting of 
blood, threatened haemorrhages or painful palpitations of the 
heart, it would be necessary to forbid too strong coffee and tea^ 
wine and aromatic foods, as the koumiss, in the countries 
where it can be procured. 

Wine and beer are generally favourable to consumptives ; it 
is necessary to choose generous wines but not sweet wines which 
quickly displease, load the stomach and diminish the appetite. 

In the application of these rules of alimentation, there are 
difficulties which spring from different particular cases. The 

1 See on the subject of alcohol considered as very advantageous for 
consumptives, the work of M. Mircoli in Milnch. med. Wochcna., 1902, No. t). 

472 



4 



TUBERCULOSIS 

principal is the want of appetite, with stubborn constipation at 
the beginning, and later diarrhoea. 

We have previously said how necessary it is to excite the 
appetite by life in the open air, carriage drives, arsenic in its 
organic forms. Variety in food, the use of condiments of every 
kind, spices, etc., are also means not to be neglected if there is no 
dyspepsia. 

As stimulants for the inert stomach, Vichy or alkaline waters 
which stimulate the secretion of hydrochloric acid, should be 
resorted to, also bitters, soups mixed with meat juice, chicken 
jellies, smoked and scraped ham, anchovies and otlier analogous 
condiments, caviare when possible, sauces seasoned with mustard, 
lemon juice, or other acid fruits, etc. Sometimes cold meats are 
better tolerated by these invalids than warm. 

Scraped raw meat, swalloived without being masticated, as I have 
previously observed, is most often accepted by stomachs which 
refuse cooked meats (Debove). 

Inability to digest, heaviness of the stomach, etc., flushings of 
the face may disappear, if the patient is given after the meal a 
little coffee, a hot cup of tea, a little pancreatin and a table- 
spoonful of a solution, in hydrochloric acid, of phosphate of 
ammonia and magnesia to which a little cognac, sugar and lemon 
juice have been added. 

Against habitual constipation, sometimes very stubborn, 
the dietetic means are : herbaceous foods, the juice or broth of 
herbs, decoction of the flour of oats, fresh milk taken fasting and 
preceded by a glass of water : whey (500 to 600 grms. per day) 
mixed with 15 to 20 grms. per litre of lactose and, if necessary, a 
little Seidlitz powder or tamarind. 

If, on the contrary, there is diarrhoea, the invalid may be 
nourished on milk alone, if he digests it well (sterilized milk 
suits best in these cases) or raw scraped meat, ham, red wine, 
tea, cocoa, etc. If the diarrhoea continues, the invalid should 
be put on a diet of milk soups, tepid broth with yolk of egg or 
gelatine added to it (10 to 15 grms. of the latter per day) decoc- 
tions of rice, quince jelly, milk of almonds, meat soups, etc. 
Pastry, sweets, fruits, seltzer water are unfavourable. 

Such diarrhoea is often accompanied by intestinal ulceration 
which we can scarcely hope to cure. 

If there is any vomiting while eating, it is necessary to try 
tonics for the stomach and especially ice in quite small pieces 
which must be swallowed without sucking. It is also necessary 
to divide up the meals and not to neglect medical treatment with 
which I have not to deal here. 

We have already spoken of several of tliese conditions k propos 
of stomachic dyspepsia. 

Severe cough will be combated by sips of a hot mixture of 

473 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

milk and barley water slightly sweetened, and by the customary 
soothing agents, especially by the extract of hyoscyamus which 
does not weaken the appetite so much as opium or morphia. 

I have previously stated what should be done in cases of 
haemoptysis. When there is haemorrhage, complete rest in bed 
with tlie shoulders raised, draughts of chloride of calcium (2 to 
4 grms. per day), opium in a large dose and diet are indispensable 
to allow of the perfect repair of the vessels. In case of very few 
haemorrhages, we must have recourse to injections of ergotine, 
afterwards of artificial serum, the latter to sustain, if necessary, 
the failing heart. 

If there is much fever, rising to 39° and more in the evening, 
if it cannot be lowered by arsenical drugs (quinine is bad for these 
stomachs and besides useless ; pyramidon cannot be continued 
very long ; creosote lowers temperature but rapidly weakens the 
bodily forces), it is necessary to diet these invalids, to give only 
the small amount of food which they digest, to insist above all 
upon milk, to permit, if needful, a little cognac mixed with one 
or two yolks of eggs, which, with raw meat, jellies, decoctions 
of cereals as drinks, bread, creams of barley or rice, will form the 
basis of their alimentation. 

Here is, as an example, the arrangement of a concentrated 
diet for tuberculous patients :— 

Dejeuner, early : — Milk, 259 cc. Cocoa, 30 grms. Bread, 50 
grms. Butter, 20 grms. Sugar, 25 grms. The yolks of two 
eggs swallowed whole after this little meal with 20 grms. of 
brandy. 

Lunch at 12 : — Roast meat or fish, 100 grms. Farinaceous 
vegetables, 60 grms. Bread, 120 grms. Butter, fat, 20 grms. 
Wine, 260 cc. Fruits, 60 grms. 

Afternoon tea : — Milk, 300 cc. Cocoa, 30 grms. Sugar, 25 grms. 
The yolk of two eggs to be swallowed at the end of this meal. 

Dinner supper .—Soup with 50 grms. of bread. Bread, 100 
grms. Boast meat, 80 grms. Herbaceous vegetables, 100 grms. 
Butter, fat, 20 grms. Wine, 200 cc. Brandy, 20 grms. Fruits, 
60 grms. 70 grms. of scraped raw meat to be swallowed without 
mastication after the meal. 

At night : — Milk (if necessary), 150 grms. 

For a tuberculous patient of average weight placed, owing to 
dietary and medication, in a condition to maintain his nutrition, 
the daily alimentation we here indicate can be thus expressed 
in Calories : — . 



474 



TUBERCULOSIS 



Nature of the Foods. 



Milk 

Tlie yolks of 4 eggs . 
Roast meat or fish 
Raw meat 

Farinaceous vegetables 
Herbaceous vegetables 
Bread (well baked) 
Butter, fat 
Cocoa . 
Cognac 
Sugar . 
Wine . 
Fruits 



Quantities in 
the fresli state. 



700 cc. 

70 grms. 
180 „ 

70 „ 

60 „ 
100 „ 
320 „ 

60 „ 

60 „ 

40 „ 

50 „ 
500 cc. 
100 „ 

Totals 

Corresponding 

Calories 



Containing 



Albuminoid 
Matters. 



25-6 grms. 

11-2 

37-26 

14-63 

12-0 

2-0 
28-0 

0-0 

5-3 

0-0 

0-0 
0-2 



135-99 gms- 
544-3 



Fatty 
Matters. 



31-1 grms. 
21-4 

9-7 

3-8 

1-2 

0-3 

3-0 
51-6 
30-0 

0-0 

0-0 
0-1 



152-2 grms. 



1,354-5 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



38-5 grms. 

0-6 

0-6 

0-4 
35-4 

6-0 
170 

0-0 

7-2 
40 
46 
80 

7-0 



431-7 grms. 
1,725-6 



This ration corresponds to 3,624 Calories. It is ample in the 
bulk of cases and largely furnishes to the consumptive, especially 
if he is at rest, the nitrogenous, ternary, phosphoric and mineral 
elements suitable to make good his losses. It will be noted 
besides, how much the enormous proportion of fatty matter, 
destined to delay dissimilation and to supply the necessary 
Calories, is concealed in this alimentation. 

The concentrated ration which has just been indicated admits 
too of innumerable varieties. 

In osseous-tuberculosis the diet should be very substantial ; 
the same as in chronic pulmonary tuberculosis. 

The dietary of the consumptive should contain as much salt 
as possible, salt being very effectively opposed to the dissimilation 
of albuminoids and facilitating the excretion of nitrogenous 
waste products. 

It has been repeatedly written and said : every tuberculous 
patient who eats well and gains in weight is curable. This is 
unhappily not, quite an exact statement. But it may be said 
that among these invalids, resistance is proportional to appetite 
and to the digestive powers. Those only live long who feed well. 



475 



XLIII 

diet in cases ov an/emia, chlorosis, scrofula, rickets, osteo- 
malacia, skin disease, syphilis and cachexi.e 

An.^^.mia, Leuk.t:mia, Chlorosis. 

/INMMIA. — The anaemia which is caused by an insufficient 
and improper ahmentation, as well as that which follows 
loss of blood from any cause whatever, may be made to disappear 
under the influence of a healthy and abundant diet. In such 
cases albuminous foods are the more necessary, as in general 
anaemia and haemorrhage accentuate nitrogenous dissimilation. 
We know that by bleeding, the phenomena of oxidation become 
accelerated, at least for some time. In these cases then the sub- 
ject should take complete rest in order that he may provide 
oxygen according to his needs. These remarks apply especially 
to anaemia provoked by fairly large hremorrhage of every kind. 

In cases of chronic anaemia it is certainly necessary to try to 
feed the patient well, but it must be remembered that in such 
cases the nervous system kept in bad repair reacts on the stomach 
which has in part lost its digestive power. Exciting dishes, 
roast meat, raw meat (150 to 250 grms. daily), generous wines, 
strong beer of good quality, and in general all concentrated 
nourishing substances : fresh eggs, milk in a small proportion, 
purees of vegetable flours, green vegetables which bring at the 
same time phosphorus, and salts of lime and magnesia, underdone 
meat, meat soup, fish, cooked cheese, etc., may prove satisfactory 
for these weak stomachs. These invalids need only abstain from 
indigestible foods in great quantities, those which are too fat, 
starchy or sweet. 

Iron is necessary to anaemic persons, and we have already 
stated that apart from medicaments, red wine and green veget- 
ables both furnish an appreciable proportion of it under an 
organic and easily assimilable form. We have given (p. 329) the 
amount of iron in the different alimentary substances. 

Of the foods, blood and meat are much the richest in this 
element. Milk, on the contrary, is one of the poorest. The 
enormous amount of milk necessary to give sufficient nourishment 
brings so mucli liquid, that this alimentation fatigues the heart 
and the kidneys, as well as the stomach and the intestines of 

476 



SCROFULA 

which the muscles are already weakened, as the obstinate con- 
stipation from which anaemic and chlorotic subjects so often 
suffer, proves. 

The alkalinity of the blood of anaemic persons is almost normal. 

According to Danford, Fraser and Ehrlich, the taking of the 
raw bone marrow of young animals (10 to 15 grms. of fresh 
marrow of the tibia of the caK) enables us to combat usefully 
certain serious forms of ansemia and chlorosis itseK by rapidly 
regenerating the red blood corpuscles. 

Leukcemia. — The influence of alimentation on leukcemia is 
somewhat slight. Preparations of iron (oxalates, lactates) and 
ferruginous foods are again indicated here : but it is above all 
necessary to grapple with the initial cause of this condition where 
the haematogenous elements of the system seem to have lost their 
aptitude to reproduce the red corpuscles. It must also be borne 
in mind that in this ailment, the formation of uric acid becomes 
exaggerated. It would appear then that leuksemics should 
avoid foods in nucleins : too young meats, gelatinous tissues, 
broth and extracts of meat, sweetbread, etc. Milk on the con- 
trary may be taken. 

Chlorosis. — Chlorosis is generally a complication of anaemia ; 
it should be treated in the same manner from an alimentary 
point of view. In these cases, underdone meat, and better still 
mutton and horseflesh, raw or scraped, produce the best results. 
To these foods, the following may be added : Green vegetables, 
meat juice, eggs, cheese, good red wines of Roussillon or Bordeaux, 
two years old at most, wines very rich in iron and tannin. Salt, 
and particularly common kitchen salt, the most arsenical accord- 
ing to my investigations, and salted foods in general are also very 
beneficial to these subjects. They excite the appetite and hinder 
an excess of nitrogenous dissimilation. But above all chlorotic 
persons must be made to eat ; and it is in such cases that a stay 
in the open air, particularly at the sea-side, and verysmaU doses 
of organic arsenic (1 to 2 centigrms. daily of disodic m^thylarsenate 
or arrhenal) render the greatest services. 

The alkalinity of the blood of chlorotic patients is normal and 
even a little above normal (Kraus, Rumpf). It is not then in 
this direction that the treatment or aUmentation of these subjects 
should be guided. 

As they generally store up very few foods, they should not take 
too much exercise ; what they require is carriage drives in the 
open air, a stay in the country or by the sea-side, an open air 
life and moderate exercise without fatigue. 

Scrofula, Rickets, Osteo-Malacia. 

/S^cro/w^a.— Scrofula is generally the result of an alimentation 
which is defective, insufficient and too rich in herbaceous or 

477 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

starchy foods. It is prevalent among the poorer classes who eat 
bread of an inferior quality (sometimes mouldy) and little meat, 
drink either no wine or beer or too little of it, and live in damp, 
unhealthy and ill-lighted premises. The use of bad milks 
coming from diseased and tuberculous cows, or milks diluted 
with impure water, also contribute to develop this affection. 

Scrofulous persons require air, light, sunshine, sea air, foods 
rich in nitrogen and phosphorus (grilled meats, ham, fish, soups, 
good milk, eggs, cheese, good bread, red wines, coffee, cocoa) 
and alimentary stimulants : bitters, iodine, arsenic. 

These patients should not take foods of bad quality, sweet- 
meats, acid fruits, vegetables which contain too much water or 
starch (rice, potatoes, etc.), doubtful milks. 

Rickets, Osteo-Malacia. — In rickets the quantity of lime of the 
bony tissue diminishes considerably. The calcic phosphate of 
the bones may fall from 575, the normal figure, to 145 per 
cent., whilst the organic matter increases from 33-5 to 72 per cent. 
But although it has been demonstrated, particularly by the 
experiments of Haubner and Voit,^ that young animals deprived 
of salts of lime become subject to rickets, Rudel," Uffelmann and 
Baginsky » have established, on the other hand, that rickets may 
appear in children even when fed on an alimentation rich in 
salts of lime which, in these cases, they throw off abundantly by 
the urine. As a matter of fact, this disease essentially consists of an 
exaggerated proliferation of the elements of that part of the cartil- 
age in young animals which is destined to become bone, and which 
never reaches the state of transforming itself into bone or absorb- 
ing the lime, due to a cause which is as yet unknown to us. Is it 
the insufficiency of the stomachic secretion of hydrocliloric acid 
which hinders the assimilation of foods, as has been suggested ? Is 
it the too abundant production of lactic acid formed in the stomach 
by reason of secondary fermentations, an acid which, reabsorbed 
in the intestine, acidulates the blood and prevents deposits of 
phosphates and calcification ? This theory has been upheld with 
some reason by Heitzmann, Hoffmeister and Baginsky. 

It appears then necessary that these patients should avoid all 
foods which may undergo in the stomach acid fermentations, 
lactic or butyric : sweetmeats, indigestible foods too rich in 
cellulose and starch, green fruits, cow's milk substituted for 
human milk, frequent change of wet-nurse, lacteal diastased or 
other flours. Whether fed at the breast or on sterilized milk, the 
infant should be examined to see if he gains regularly in weight as 
much as is suitable to his age. Above all, care m ust be taken not to 
burden the stomach of a young child with foods he cannot digest. 

1 Zeitsch, f. Biolog., Bd. XVI, p. f)2. 

2 Arch. f. Path. n. Pharm., Bd. XXXIII, p. 90. 
^ Prakt. Beitr. z. Kinderheilk., 1882. 

478 



DIETS IN SKIN DISEASES 

In default of human milk, ass's milk, or if need be the freshly 
sterOized milk of healthy cows, may be used, but the latter with 
prudence. The pulp of raw meat from the twelfth month, if 
necessary roast scraped meat, eggs, broth and panades of white 
(torrefied) bread, purees of peas or lentils, a little Malaga or port 
wine, but very little — just to stimulate the digestion, constitute 
favourable foods or stimulants. Phosphated flours, or those 
naturally rich in organic phosphates, are strongly indicated. 
Hygienic care, open-air life, sea-air, salt and aromatized baths 
with the special therapeutic treatment, in these cases, are the 
most suitable adjuvants of this regimen. 

In osteo-malacia the earthly salts of the bones diminish and the 
organic substance becomes modified. It increases a little in 
weight and appears to be no longer able to furnish gelatine on 
boiling. 

The lack of calcareous material in foods leads, in the case of 
adults, to a veritable rarefaction of the bone which does not 
become soft, as in the preceding case, buj) brittle : this state is called 
osteo-porosia. It is easily dealt with by the use of calcareous foods 
(milk, bread, herbaceous vegetables, preparations of glycero- 
phosphates, etc.), a diet which also suits persons afflicted with 
osteo-malacia. 

Skin Diseases, Syphilis. 

Many skin diseases are caused by a defective alimentary diet : 
excess of fatty bodies, fish, shellfish, spices, meats, especially of too 
young animals and particularly veal, high game, etc., produce 
urticaria, eczema, impetigo, etc. 

Although a defective alimentation is not in itself sufficient to 
produce eczema, it always aggravates and develops it in persons 
predisposed to it, in arthritics for example. What nmst be avoided 
in these cases is fish, shellfish, too young meat, pork, game, straw- 
berries, fermented cheese, pork-butcher's meats, chocolate, coffee, 
beer, all highly spiced, too fat or too nourishing dishes. Wine 
should only be taken in very moderate quantities. 

Veal is particularly apt to encourage eczema and to cause per- 
sistent eruptions of acne to appear, to irritate the intestinal 
mucous membrane and that of the urinary passages. It is for 
these sufferers that vegetable diet is especially indicated, without 
however beef or mutton being forbidden any more than wine. 
As adjuvants, the use of alkaline mineral waters or arsenical 
waters or preparations may be advised. 

The very fat milks of some wet-nurses cause an eczematous rash 
in infants. In tliese cases it is better, if their age permits of it, to 
put them on sterilized milk, panades, milk foods and even raw 
scraped meat. 

In all skin diseases it is necessary to avoid exciting dishes or those 

479 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

which provoke an elimination of irritant matters by the cutaneous 
surface or by the mucous membranes. Under this heading are 
aromatic spices, bitter condiments, the flesh of too young animals, 
fish — especially if it is not quite fresh or too fat — Crustacea, 
mussels, and with some people yolk of egg, etc. Strawberries 
often produce urticaria in those predisposed to it. 

Among vegetable foods all those which bring oxalic acid must be 
avoided (sorrel, spinach, rhubarb, beetroot, French beans). 

The excess of nitrogenous alimentation with the exclusion of 
vegetable foods, especially provokes constipation and reabsorption 
in the intestines of matters undergoing more or less putrid fer- 
mentation which are particularly irritating ; these the skin finally 
eliminates while partly oxidizing them, but not without harm to 
itself. 

The true pellagra or endemic pellagria is connected with alimen- 
tation by maize which is invaded by a mould called verderame 
or Ustilago carbo (Balardini, Th. Roussel, Costallat). 

Although the consumption of rye bread is decreasing in France, 
2,000,000 hectares are still given up to the cultivation of this 
cereal and many persons eat also, at certain meals, rye bread or 
meslin as a refreshment. It is known that the grain of rye may 
be infested by the scleroid mycelium of a poisonous mushroom, the 
Claviceps purpurea, and that the bread which is produced may 
provoke endemics of ergotism with gangrene of the extremities. 

Syphilis. — In this disease, specific treatment is much more 
important than diet, which may be of quite an ordinary character. 
However it is very evident that if it is a question of an arthritic, 
obese, anaemic, cardiac person, etc., the regimens suitable for 
those conditions are indicated above all. 

For young syphilitic nurslings, if they are not nursed by the 
mother, they should be put on a diet of ass's milk or sterilized 
cow's milk which may be mixed with a third or a half of toast 
water and a little sugar of milk. 

Cachexia, Scurvy, Cancer. 

Ca/^hexia, Scurvy. — As in the preceding disorders, cachexias 
are above all susceptible to the specific medication corresponding 
to the cause from which they originate. The cachexia of myoe- 
dema, for example, may be successfully combated by the taking 
of thyroid gland : alcoholic cachexia may yield to the deprivation 
of fermented liquors ; mercurial and saturnine cachexias to 
cessation of the use of the preparations of mercury or of the absorp- 
tion of lead by the mucous membranes and the skin. 

In nearly all these cachectic conditions, roast or raw meat, 
eggs, milk, good bread, red wines in moderation, are the foods 
most indicated and the most valuable. 

There is a special form of cachexia which particularly results 

480 



DIET IN SCURVY 

from an unhealthy aHmentation : this is scurvy. It appears to 
be the result of insufficient feeding both as to^quantity and quality 
combined with a lack of hygienic care, excess of fatigue and moral 
depression, so many causes which render assimilation and nutri- 
tion defective. 

It has been stated that epidemics of scurvy disappear almost 
immediately on the return to a diet of fresh meat and vegetables. 
From the fact that on salt meats being replaced by fresh meats 
and vegetable foods, the scurvy was generally very quickly cured, 
it has been concluded that salted meats were the cause of this 
disease. From the fact that when fresh vegetables were brought 
to a crew or besieged town, the epidemic of scurvy was not long in 
abating, it has been inferred that scurvy was the consequence of a 
lack of fresh vegetables, and particularly, of those richest in salts 
of potash, such as potatoes. But we must again bear in mind that 
fresh meat assimilates better than salt meat ^ and that the latter 
is only reparative if it is in a good state of preservation, quite 
free from the products of more or less advanced decomposition and 
from toxins ; that meat alone, fresh or salted, is not properly 
assimilated if at the same time a certain proportion of herbaceous 
and starchy foods are not included in the diet. We have established 
this fact at some length in Part I of this work. Vegetables in 
these cases appear then to excite and improve the assimilation 
which the combination of different causes had helped to impair ; 
they also act by alkalizing the blood and accelerating the 
phenomena of oxidizing fermentations. 

In order, then, to avoid scurvy the diet should be sufficiently 
reparative, both animal and vegetable. If either preserved or 
salted meats are included in the diet, it will be necessary to be 
satisfied that they are in a good state of preservation ; that they 
were not fermented before salting ; that they are not unpleasant 
either to the eye or taste ; that the provisions have not become 
changed from having been kept too long, which by allowing the 
diastases to act upon them may have modified these meats by 
partly transforming them into starchy bodies which are little or 
not at all assimilable, and sometimes even poisonous. Fresh meat 
should be given in place of these old preserved goods as soon as 
it is possible. 

It is especially necessary that the alimentation of the sailor, 
soldier, the besieged and the explorer, should contain a sufficient 
quantity of preserved vegetables and better still, if possible, fresh 
herbaceous vegetables themselves. Lacking these, potatoes will 
render this service. If necessary peas, lentils, cabbage, onion, 
garlic, spinach, sorrel, cardoon, chicory, lettuce or different fruits 

1 Mr. Vincent has just proved, however, that salt introduced into the 
blood or under the skin, is favourable to the invasion of the system by 
infectious microbes {Soc. de Biolog., Seance of June 4, 1904). 

481 I I 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

may be replaced by decoctions of fir and bilberry buds, and if 
need be of common grass, moss, lichen and conferva brought by 
the sea, etc. Among fruits the most valuable are apples, plums, 
pears and especially lemons, oranges and grapes. Fresh or con- 
centrated miUi, grain and flours of cereals are also clearly indicated. 
Finally, wine and beer should be taken directly it is possible to do 
so. Wine by its richness in acid tartrate of potash and its easy 
preservation, is the most valuable alimentary drink as a prophy- 
lactic and cure for scurvy. 

As for beer it is more difficult to carry from place to place and 
to keep. A kind of small beer called epinette can be made on the 
spot, at least in fir and pine countries, from the following recipe 
given by Duhamel du Monceau : Into a large cauldron of boiling 
water a large sheaf of pjne or fir leaves is plunged. On the other 
hand a bushel of oats is cooked in a saucepan over a fire, and also 
7 kgs. of bread cut into rather thin slices are grilled on a hot 
slab. The whole is crumbled into the water of the cauldron, whicli 
is boiled for thirty minutes. The liquid is then skimmed, left 
to cool and poured into a Bordeaux cask. A watery solution of 
5 to 6 lb. of molasses and 12 to 15 lb. of sugar is added. When 
the mixture is only tepid, the must from a litre or two of yeast of 
beer mixed in water is added (if necessary, this yeast may be 
kept in a very dry state) ; the cask is filled up to a few centi- 
metres from the bung with tepid water, and left to ferment. 
After a few days the liquid is ready to drink. It constitutes a 
sort of light beer which may prove useful. 

Cancer. — The evolution of cancer and the cancerous cachexia 
which follows it may be checked by sufficient feeding. Generally 
it is necessary to restore the appetite (which is often lacking 
in cancerous persons) by means of bitters or even preparations 
of organic arsenic. They must then be allowed to take as far 
as possible the food which suits them and which they can digest 
best. In a general way the regimen which we have indicated 
(pp. 440, 469) for dyspeptics and tuberculous consumptives is 
suitable in this cachexia. 

It is not certain that the vegetarian diet recommended to these 
invalids by Beneke is altogether favourable to them. However 
as cancerous cachexia is due to the reabsorption of toxins which 
form in the organs invaded by the neoplasm, it seems logical to 
sustain the invalid by the alimentation whicli brings the smallest 
amount of nitrogenous residue to tlie system, that is to say by 
milk and vegetables. Again it is necessary that the patient's 
stomach should be satisfied and that this regimen should not help 
to weaken his already impaired forces. 



482 



XLIV 

DIET IN NERVOUS AFFECTIONS AND MADNESS 

EXCESSIVE intellectual work, anxieties of every kind, an 
idle life, repeated nervous excitements and the consequent 
exhaustion, loss of sleep, the abandonment of all fatiguing or 
stimulating exercise, unwholesome diet with an excess of muscular 
flesh, etc., contribute to create the jaded and neuropathic. 
Congenital weakness, all the causes of anaemia, the too exclusive 
methods of alimentation, the abuse of stimulants, of alcohol in 
particular, may little by little modify the nerve cells to the extent 
of causing a whole series of pathological conditions, from nervous- 
ness and over-excitability to insanity, a well-known result of the 
repeated abuse of fermented liquors. In all these cases it is 
worth while to look carefully into the question of diet sometimes 
as an efficient or occasional more or less direct and continuous 
cause of these nerve troubles, and sometimes as a means of 
improving them. 

Neurasthenia. — Physical overwork brings lassitude, depression 
and want of appetite, but rarely leads to neurasthenia. Intel- 
lectual overwork, associated with want of exercise, acts other- 
wise : if alimentation is abundant or moderate, income may 
very appreciably exceed expenditure ; organic dissimilation, 
oxidations, become incomplete and the excretory matters with 
raised molecular weight, generally offensive, soon accumulate in 
the tissues and plasmas, and render their action abnormal. 

The frequent repetition of emotions of all kinds, grief, business 
anxieties, the exaggeration and cultivation of excessive feelings 
from literary and artistic to erotic and depraved, the want of 
sleep, etc., act in the same way on nutrition and disintegration. 

Everything which troubles directly or indirectly the digestive 
and assimilatory functions appear to bring about an exag- 
gerated production of nitrogenous waste materials proved 
by the toxic state of the urine. These substances, almost 
all harmful and of a semi-alkaloid nature brought to the organs 
by the blood, act on the nerve centres and cause irritation, 
slow intoxication and loss of equilibrium. In particular, 
irregularity of the functions of the stomach, intestine, liver, 
kidneys, generative organs and their connexions, with exaggerated 

483 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

alimentary excitation and want of exercise, are frequent causes 
of neurasthenia. 

Without occupying ourselves here with the medical, physical 
or moral measures which may be employed in all these cases, the 
preceding considerations show that in these invalids it is necessary 
to provide the stomach with foods easy of digestion, sufficiently 
nutritive, but producing the least possible quantity of nitro- 
genous waste. 

Neurasthenia being like arthritis, gout, chlorosis and obesity, 
a malady of degeneracy by weakening of the nutritive functions 
with exaggeration of the nitrogenous alimentation of which 
sufficient exercise does not assure the dissimilation, it appears 
that it is necessary to diet neurasthenics in the conditions recog- 
nized as the best for each of these different maladies, the more so 
as dyspepsia is their common appanage and is sufficient to bring 
about neurasthenia when there is an hereditary defect. 

Finally, if it is observed that confirmed neurasthenics end 
by only being able to eat enough by the aid of stimulants, of 
condiments in particular, and that they only assimilate from 
that time a small proportion of the nourishment which they 
take in, as is proved by the small proportion of nitrogen which 
they eliminate by the urine and the exaggeration of the part 
of the nitrogenous bodies precipitable by the reaction of the 
alkaloids, it may be concluded again, from this point of view, 
that these invalids require a regimen of easy digestion, moderate 
rather than excessive, a regimen which may be gradually increased 
in proportion as the assimilative and nervous forces return, and 
as the organic residues better and better eliminated approach 
normal types. 

From these observations the treatment of Weir-Mitchell and 
Playfair is derived. The invalid is isolated, put to complete rest 
in bed, he receives first, in small portions at a time, 1 to 2 
litres of milk per day, conditions which are intended to reduce to 
the minimum the consumption of nitrogenous principles, whilst 
having recourse to those which give the minimum of wastes and 
toxins. The milk may be skimmed, cold or hot, sweetened, 
salted, with a little vanilla or caramel, etc., added to it according 
to the taste of the patient. At the end of three or four days, 
some farinaceous dishes may be added to the milk ; vegetable 
soups, one or two eggs, a little raw or roast meat, tea, coffee, 
cocoa and even wine with a little bread or biscuit. We must be 
especially guided by the state of the stomach and of the digestive 
functions which may be excited at the same time by electricity 
and massage. The proportion of food allowed is thus gradually 
increased until it reaches per day 300 grms. of meat, 200 to 250 
grms. of vegetables or stewed fruits, 500 to 800 cc. of milk, two 
glasses of good cider or one glass of generous wine, white or red ; in 

484 



I 



DIET IN NEURASTHENIA 

these conditions it is possible from the third or fourth week 
to allow the invahd to get up and walk a little. 

This is then a cure which tends to reduce to a minimum the 
needs as well as the expenditure of nitrogenous alimentary prin- 
ciples, and consequently their offensive residues. 

It does not succeed in the case of true melancholia or insanity, 
nor in certain forms of hysteria with vomiting, or epilepsy. 

These invalids must never be permitted a succulent regimen, 
above all a regimen rich in meats which would act on the 
nervous centres by the irritating nitrogenous substances which 
necessarily arise from them, substances especially dangerous 
to those invalids whose digestion and assimilation are imperfect. 

A fortiori will it be necessary to avoid, if not the very moderate 
use, at least the abuse of alcoholic drinks, the repeated stimulus 
of which is sufficient, in those predisposed, to provoke alterations 
of the nervous centres. 

Whey, light chicken broth, frog's muscle, seed or herbaceous 
vegetables, compotes, fruits ... in a word, the modified vege- 
tarian diet ; and for beverages : extract of malt, light wines mixed 
with plenty of water and acidulated drinks, form the best diet 
for these invalids. This was indeed the regimen of people 
attacked by vapours, as it was called in old times. Preparations 
of casein may be added, which have the great advantage of not 
fatiguing the liver and not giving appreciable nitrogenous resi- 
dues of an objectionable kind. 

The painful affections of nerves (sciatica, facial, dental and 
visceral neuralgias, etc.) are largely influenced by alimentation. 
Every one knows how often the pains become aggravated at the 
time when digestion furnishes the blood with the maximum of 
nutritive matters. In the same way that they over-excite neuras- 
thenics, regimens of too succulent a nature or too nitrogenous, 
especially when joined with an idle life, increase hysteralgia and 
all neuralgias in general. They keep up gastralgia if they do not 
originate it. The modified milk diet with 100 to 120 grms. of 
meat at most per day, vegetable broths, vegetable jellies, fruits, 
and in general the vegetarian diet, are favourable in these different 
cases. These invalids besides require foods sucli as milk, peas, 
lentils, etc., which give sufficient nourishment since angemia is a 
condition which over-excites the nerves. 

In essential asthma, in addition to medical treatment where 
arsenic, especially under organic forms, works wonders, little 
meat is required, no alcohol, but foods of easy digestion. But 
tea and coffee are useful rather than harmful. 

Insanity. — The demented, melancholies and epileptics are 

almost all anemic, dyspeptic, arthritic and most often uricemic 

and oxaluric. Adler ^ has found daily, in the urine of a neuras- 

1 Med. Record, 1893, XLIII, G73. 

485 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

thenic, 044 grm., in that of a melancholic, 075 grm. of oxalic 
acid in place of 0015 grm. which is the maximum rate in the 
normal condition. The diet generally suitable in the aforemen- 
tioned nervous affections is then tliat which should be prescribed 
for these patients. But special care must be taken that all 
gastric trouble and all constipation are avoided : hence the 
very sensible use, in cases of insanity, of milk, green vegetables, 
prunes, fruits and marmalades, etc. But these persons require 
a very substantial alimentation and all the more nourishing 
according to the state of restlessness or depression. In the 
depressed forms of anxious melanchoHa, in the case of epileptics 
and those whom agitation deprives of sleep, foods should be very 
nourishing, rich in assimilable phosphorus, an element that these 
subjects lose abundantly. Dry vegetables, and especially lentils 
and pea purees well supply this need. 

Insane people, and especially insane alcoholics, must abstain 
from aU fermented liquors as well as all exciting foods. Eggs, 
meat in small quantity, dry vegetables and the modified vege- 
tarian diet, constitute the most favourable diet. 

If we remember the examples which I have given as to the 
changes of character of animals under the influence of foods (p. 37G), 
the bear and the rat fed on meat becoming violent and ferocious, 
wliilst they remain mild and tractable with a vegetable diet, we 
can understand the advantage whicli may be derived from vege- 
tarianism among restless and dangerous lunatics. 

For the madman who refuses food, we are obliged to resort to 
the oesophageal tube introduced by the mouth or nasal passages 
(see Chapter XLIX). Dried meat and casein powders, milk, 
the yolk of eggs mixed with soup, vegetable purees, all foods 
which give good nourishment in a very small volume, are all 
naturally indicated in these cases. But feculents, which these 
invalids cannot digest well, should not be used too much, and 
if fats are given to them by this means, they must only be 
administered under the form of emulsions. 



486 



XLV 

DIET IN ACUTE DISEASES — RULES RELATENTG TO DIET IN EEVERS 

IN GENERAL 

ACUTE febrile diseases generally end favourably if no indis- 
cretions are committed and no unforeseen complications 
arise. Contrary to what holds in chronic diseases, the regimen 
here ranks only second in the sense, that for all fever patients, it 
varies but little the diet or rather a very light alimentation which 
allows of supporting the invalid without stopping the efforts the 
organism makes to return to the normal condition, being the 
rule in the greater number of cases. Also it may be said as 
regards quantity, most febrile patients may be fed alike. Thus 
the great English physician. Graves, has been able to sum up 
their regimen in the few following lines : — 

" In the case of these patients, the alimentation should be 
controlled with care and precaution, especially at the commence- 
ment of the fever. From the first to the third day, especially if 
the invalid is young and robust, water, weak barley water, whey, 
will suffice. Afterwards a sweet alimentation ought to be given. 
What I generally prescribe is an oatmeal gruel very well cooked, 
sweetened with sugar and to this add, provided there is no 
tendency to diarrhoea, a small quantity of lemon juice. I am 
also in the habit of ordering a very light panade, night and 
morning, during the latter part of the first stage and towards the 
middle of the course of the fever. The patient takes two or 
three large spoonfuls of it per day. . . . Later a little meat 
juice or broth may be allowed. One of the best means of 
alimentation in the middle or towards the end of a fever, is 
chicken broth given in small quantities at a time and with pre- 
caution. If the result be heaviness, stomach ache, redness of the 
face, agitated pulse with increase of fever, this diet must be 
stopped and the gruel and panade again given to the patient. . . . 
Simple drinks are the only ones that can be given in cases of 
fever : beer, ale, porter, light wine diluted with water ; tea and 
coffee are frequently given to fever patients ; they are very 
useful when seasonably employed." 

This statement of one of the most authoritative English 
practitioners sums up the regimen for fever patients, and we 

487 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

see here that Graves makes no essential distinction between such 
and such a form of acute fever. 

However, a few explanations and reservations are necessary. 

In what quantity should food be given to fever patients ? 
Formerly the regimen of a fever patient consisted of a diet of 
foods modified by the use of ptisans and broth. Abstinence 
from foods more or less complete has its advantages : it dis- 
encumbers the liver, intestines, lungs and brain : it lessens, the 
work of the heart ; it facilitates the reabsorption of toxins. 
But this diet has also its disadvantages : the fever consumes 
the tissues : the proof of this is given on the one hand, by the 
rise in temperature of the patients and the great quantity of 
heat that they lose even under conditions of absolute abstinence 
from foods, on the other hand, by analysis of their excreta. 
Krauss and Loevy have established that with fever patients put 
on slop diet, the absorption of oxygen and the elimination of 
carbonic acid are at least equal to, and sometimes higher than, 
what they are in the normal state. It has also been proved 
that in acute fevers, the dissimilation of total nitrogen and con- 
sequently proteid substances, as well as the production of wast« 
matters having this origin, exceed by 8, 10 and 15 grms. per day 
at the commencement and especially at the critical period, the 
quantity of nitrogen furnished by the food. The fever patient 
then is burning, but he is burning his tissues, his proteid matters 
as well as liis fats, as the abundant nitrogenous matters in the 
urine bear witness. 

As for the heat lost, it is almost the same as in healthy persons 
left at rest, that is to say from 2,000 to 2,400 Calories per day. 

This limited slop diet causes great anaemia. Denis found for 
1,000 parts of blood in a young man : Before dieting, blood 
corpuscles in the dry state 154, vxiter 770 ; after 40 days of this diet, 
dry corpuscles 111, water 804. 

The fever patient must then be fed very little. Besides, we know 
that abstinence from food, when too prolonged, alters the mucous 
membrane of the stomach, and destroys its aptitude for secreting 
the gastric juice. An over strict diet weakens the patient and 
prolongs convalescence. Formerly, when abstinence from food 
was carried to excess, patients have been known to die of starva- 
tion. Buss, Von Noorden, Albrecht have proved that typhus 
patients and fever patients in general, lose less weight, have less 
fever and a shorter convalescence when they are fed even with 
nitrogenous foods, than when they are subjected to a strict diet, 
provided only that the foods are Uquid and easy to digest, such 
as milk, panadas, hght soups and good brands of peptons, etc. 

" It appears to me," wrote Piorry (Pneumonies des vieillards), 
"that pneumonia patients when fed, make abetter and quicker 
recovery than those who are not fed." Trousseau and Pidoux 

488 



DIET IN FEVERS 

in their turn speak as follows • — " It is necessary to keep to a 
strict diet so long as the changing forces of the system have to 
carry out the necessary pathological work . . . later on slop 
diet becomes harmful ; it causes debility and nervous disorders 
which it does not do, so long as the forces of vital chemistry are 
occupied in digesting and feeding the pathological products." "• 

However, it is necessary to proceed with prudence in the alimen- 
tatioji of these invalids, for digestion and assimilation which in 
the normal state are hardly noticeable operations, are for them a 
heavy burden. The fever patient, like the overworked man, digests 
badly : he has no appetite, his salivary glands do not secrete, 
or secrete very imperfectly; his gastric juice, formed under 
bad conditions, is almost inert, poor in pepsins and hydro- 
chloric acid (Rosenthal, Ewald, Klemperer, Wolfram). The 
liver no longer acts if the fever is high and serious ; the intestinal 
secretions are partly exhausted. An overworked rich feeding 
fatigues the stomach made over sensitive by the fever ; it rejects 
heavy, over abundant or over stimulating foods. This is the 
case with meat, meat juice, fatty bodies, wine, etc. The dyspnoea 
and syncopes which may result from the weakening of the 
nutrition of the heart, are also more to be feared during digestion. 
We must then only think of feeding these invalids a little more 
if their fever has become chronic, if it continues, if the patient is 
wasting. To think of giving them 20 to 30 Calories per kilogramme 
per day, as Von Noorden suggests, is a theoretical and often 
impracticable proceeding. Nourishment must not increase the 
fever, and as Graves says, this is the best guide for regulating the 
alimentation. 

A second is the sensation of hunger ; apart from alteration in 
the stomach and intestines as in the case of ulcer of stomach, 
typhoid fever, dysentery, etc., and in cases of insanity, the patient's 
appetite may serve to regulate the amount of food we allow him. 
However this is not an absolute rule ; it should only be followed 
with prudence. The craving for meats and fats in the obese, 
for succulent dishes and generous wines in the gouty and arthritic, 
and bread in the diabetic, could certainly not serve us as a guide 
to their real needs. Nevertheless, with convalescent and fever 
patients appetite is always a good sign, and as a rule it should be 
at least partially satisfied. 

On the other hand, in the case of some invalids who require to 
be fed, tuberculous and anaemic patients for example, hunger may 
be lacking and not sufficiently indicate the real needs of the sys- 
tem. Here again appetite cannot be a good guide, and a some- 
what forced alimentation may become necessary. The rule 
is then that attempts at feeding should not increase the fever, 

1 Quoted by Lorrain, These (Vagregation de Paris, 1857, p. 26. 
489" 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

produce intestinal disorders, insomnia, cause sugar or albumin to 
appear in the urine, etc. 

Hunger during fever is not very rare, especially with young 
people and children. Often with this sign are associated depres- 
sion of the pulse, circulatory troubles and the commencement 
of a fall in temperature. These are so many concordant indi- 
cations that it is necessary to feed the patient a little more. 
These observations apply much more strongly still to the quite 
young child who rapidly consumes his substance and should be 
fed in a state of fever even before these signs begin to appear. He 
could not support fever diet for long : children digest during 
fever, and we ought not, in their case, to be stopped feeding them, 
save by disgust, vomitings and diarrhoea. Broth, milk diluted 
with water, very light vegetable or bread soups, cream, fruit, and 
meat jelHes form the foundation of alimentation for young fever 
patients. 

Foods Allowed for Fever Patients in General. — A light regimen 
of easy digestion is necessary for all stomachs that are starved, 
unused to food, weakened by fever. 

Facts have proved that of all foods those best digested by 
persons suffering from fever are carbo-hydrates ; tliose which are 
the least acceptable are the fatty bodies ; proteid substances are 
intermediate. It follows that tlie regimen sliould provide these 
patients above all with sugars, starchy matters, broth and even 
meat juice and a little milk, but these latter always in a small 
quantity and deprived as much as possible of fats which, in 
their case, do not find their habitual dissolvents and disagree with 
them. Still certain fatty bodies, like cream and butter, may be 
used in fairly large proportions. The fear that alimentation 
raises the patient's temperature, only holds good when the foods 
are badly digested or too abundant, or if the digestive canal be 
particularly attacked (peritonitis, typhoid, gastric fever, enter- 
itis). The albuminoids themselves are suitable, especially if the 
fever is prolonged and if tlie system has lost its nutritive reserves. 

In the series of useful researches made on this subject, 
Bauer and Kiinstley ^ experimented on a typhus patient with a 
diet at first very poor in albuminoids and then successively 
richer. Here are the nitrogenous losses observed by them : — 

Albuminoids in the foods. Nitrogenous losses daily. 

0-8 grms. . . . 13-9 grms. to 16-4 grma. 

395 „ ... 11-2 „ „ 11-5 „ 

51-7 „ ... 6-3 „ „ G-9 „ 

We see here this unexpected, almost paradoxical result, that 
the nitrogenous dissimilation diminishes in proportion as these 
patients are fed on products richer in nitrogen. 

1 Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. XXIV, Heft 1. 
490 



DIET IN FEVERS 

When the fever is of long duration (typhus, tuberculous), 
milk alone does not suffice. It may be partially and advantage- 
ously replaced by raw scraped meat, very lightly cooked eggs, 
peptons mixed with broth, meat or calf's foot jelly. 

As a rule, it is advisable to allow fever patients only semi- 
liquid or liquid alimentation. Solid meats which require masti- 
cation tire them, and mastication as well as digestion remain 
insufficient in these cases. It is better then to feed these patients 
with broths, soups, purees, nutritious juices, beverages. Care 
must be taken too, that the meals are never abundant ; they 
should be separated by intervals of about three hours and repeated 
four to six times per day, making them more frequent during the 
periods of abatement of the fever — in the morning for example. 
But the stomach should be empty every time it receives a fresh 
quantity of food. 

The patient's sleep should not be interrupted, and even in 
cases of insomnia, he should not be fed during the night if it can be 
avoided, unless it has not been possible to feed him during the day. 

To act otherwise is to postpone the moment when the patient 
returns to his regular habits of sleeping during the night and 
feeding during the day. However, this rule does not apply in 
cases of starvation or pressing need of food. 

Care must be taken that tlie patient's intestines are regularly 
emptied and that the mouth is kept very clean. 

The quantity of food should be regulated by the appetency of 
the patient and by the condition of his functions. Relatively 
to the weight of the patient, the quantity should be greater in 
the child who rapidly wastes away, and even in old people who 
have no reserves. Generally, and for an average patient in bed, 
25 Calories per kilogramme of body weight per day, or the ali- 
mentary energy corresponding to 1,650 Calories in twenty-four 
hours, are quite sufficient. 

It remains for us now to speak more particularly of the quality 
and nature of the foods most suitable to fever patients. 

We have just seen that all foods of animal origin should not be 
forbidden. Broth and meat extract contain a series of principles 
which act as tonics of the heart and stomach, stimulants of the 
appetite, peptogens, light foods. It is stating nothing new to say 
that for a long time it has been recognized that broth was agree- 
able to fever patients and sustained their forces. But broth is 
like wine and coffee : it must be used without abuse. There was 
a time when it was customary to overload weak stomachs cloyed 
too with these substances with extracts, meat jellies, concentrated 
broths, consommes, etc. In this way these were introduced into 
the patient's blood, already charged with the waste products of 
the fever, not the essential part of muscular tissue as was 
supposed, but an excess of extractive and irritant piincnples, the 

491 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

dissimilation of which remained imperfect and fatigued the 
stomach, liver, kidneys and heart. 

We must not, in fact, think of feeding very much with meat 
juice and concentrated broths of beef, veal or chicken. These 
preparations contain but few grammes of proteid matters 
per litre. As has already been stated (p. 144) broth is a con- 
diment and a tonic by reason of its sapid matters and its salts, 
rather than a food. The gelatine that it contains in a small 
proportion and with which it can be enriched, either by con- 
centration or by direct addition, could not be assimilated by the 
cells unless it had been previously peptonized. Besides, it only 
constitutes a very incomplete food. Meat jellies salted, sweetened 
or flavoured, may certainly play a part in the total of the patient's 
alimentation, but it would not be possible to give them in a rather 
large quantity without provoking satiety and disgust. How- 
ever, mixed with broth, lemon juice, sugar, white wine, cognac, 
etc., these jelhes may prove of some service to the sick person and 
the convalescent. They are easily digested and may be pre- 
scribed in serious fevers. 

As to the natural peptons which pass from the meat into its 
extracts, only a very small proportion of them is found in a cup 
of broth. 

Manufactured peptons, when they are not bitter, peptonized 
foods, casein powders, may be added to the broth in small 
quantities to make it a little more nutritious. A yolk of an egg 
can be mixed with tepid broth. 

Finally, broth soups may be made, less nutritious and less 
nitrogenous than the preceding, by the addition of sago, tapioca, 
ground rice, toast, etc. Meat broth is not always borne by the 
stomachs of fever patients ; in this case decoctions or broths of 
vegetables also called " herh broth " may be given instead. They 
are made by cooking in salt water the ordinary cooking vegetables 
(carrots, lettuce, potatoes, leek, etc., with the exception of 
cabbage) straining it and adding as required some light alimentary 
materials that we have just cited in connexion with meat broth. 

Milk is not easily digested, especially if the fever is high. It 
should be given, in any case, deprived of butter by churning or 
skimming, diluted with water or tisane, with the addition, if 
required, of a little tea, cognac, kirschwasser if there are definite 
indications for these stimulants. A mixture of boiled skimmed 
milk and cognac is the nourishment indicated, when the patient 
can support it, in septic diseases, eruptive fevers, etc., where it 
is necessary to restore the failing strength without overcharging 
the blood with nitrogenous products. Alcohol, in these weak 
doses, acts at the same time as a food, an antiseptic and a 
moderate reducer of the temperature (Binz, Schmiedeberg, 
Riegel), and as a stimulant of the renal secretion. Milk is 

492 



DIET IN FEVERS 

a somewhat active diuretic, but, taken in rather large doses, 
it provokes gastric and cardiac troubles. Kephir, which 
presents the nitrogenous elements of milk in combination, in an 
advantageous form, with a small quantity of alcohol, could be 
utilized in many of the cases if the somewhat high proportion of 
its fatty matters are not contra-indicated. Milk of almonds, 
egg and milk, whey and butter milk, may be substituted for 
milk if the latter is ill supported by the patient. 

Raw oysters, with or without the addition of lemon juice, 
form a light food that may be allowed to fever patients and to 
convalescents, provided they are very fresh and of good quality. 

Vegetables in thin puree, potatoes, peas, beans, carrots, pars- 
nips, tomatoes (with the exception of haricots and cabbages), 
as well as sops, soups of barley, of oatmeal gruel, wheat and 
rice (25 grms. of flour of wheat, barley or oats for 250 cc. of water) 
may be given to these patients in order to vary their alimentation 
from the time wlien the fall of the fever permits of their being fed 
a little more solidly. A little milk, yolk of egg, cocoa, broth, salt, 
sugar, vanilla may be mixed with these soups according to the 
taste of the patient. Again, after having boiled the gruel with 
water, an addition maybe made of sliced fruits, plums, prunes, 
apples, cherries, etc., and a little sugar added. It should then be 
set on the fire again and put through a strainer before being 
given to the patient. 

The flours of leguminosae are more difficult to digest than those 
of cereals, and should not be given to patients if they have too 
much fever. They should be reserved for those who, afflicted with 
chronic fever, require a more plastic nitrogenous food and one 
richer than bread or flour of cereals. The same may be said of 
flour of cocoa which is not suitable for patients in a condition of 
acute fever. 

The pungent condiments, pepper, pickles, etc., are naturally 
contra-indicated in the alimentation of fever patients whose 
stomach, heart and kidneys are fatigued by them. 

Sugar as a rule does not long please fever patients except per- 
haps in refi^shing lemonades. It is useless to force it on them. 
If they shrink from its too accentuated taste (and it is desirable 
nevertheless that sugar should enter into their alimentation), the 
ordinary saccharose may be replaced by glucose, and even by 
milk sugar, both of which are far less sweet for the same weight. 
From 20 to 60 grms. of these sugars may be given daily. 

Acid fruits such as grapes, oranges, lemons, currants, rasp- 
berries, apples, pears, etc., provided that they are very ripe and that 
the patient only swallows the juice, need not be forbidden to 
fever patients, unless the condition of the alimentary canal contra- 
indicates it. This also applies to preserves, fruit jellies and even 
to certain condiments such as lemon, salt, vinegar, aromatics, 

493 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

sweet spices, etc. The greater part of these adjuvants possess the 
great advantage of permitting variation in the aUmentation of 
the sick persons and of diminishing their disgust and stomacliic 
indigestion, of being refreshing and of alkaHzing tlie blood 
which tends to become acidified during the fever. Fruits are 
easily digested when they are ripe, or well cooked, and if they are 
taken in moderation. 

With these foods wine must be named, especially white wine 
mixed with four to five volumes of water and taken in very small 
quantities. It brings its cream of tartar, its free acids, its alkali ; 
it is agreeable through its acidulated flavour ; it acts as a tonic 
by its tannins and its alcohol ; it helps to slightly lower the 
temperature, to feed the patient and to revive his forces ; it is 
diuretic. " Beer, ale, wine, tea and coffee are frequently given 
to persons suffering from fever," says Graves, " and are of great 
help if properly used." But white or red viine, and always in 
very small quantities, is only beneficial if the patient's stomach 
bears it well. And this must always be the case. It is certain 
that great advantages may be gained by the use of wine and 
alcohol diluted with water, taken iced or hot, mixed with tea, etc., 
in adynamic conditions, whatever their cause may be, in septic 
fevers, pneumonia, influenza, catarrhal fever, especially at the 
commencement, toxic conditions with a tendencj'^ to collapse, 
the shivering period in attacks of malaria, typhoid fever, 
during convalescence, etc. Dr. Cabot {Boston Med. Journ., 
July 23, 1903) arrives at the conclusion that in the case of fever 
patients, alcohol taken in small doses does not sensibly increase the 
arterial pressure ; that it raises neither the temperature nor the 
pulse, and that it never produces delirium. Abott and Micoli 
appear to have proved that in the case of animals, alcohol pre- 
vents infection through the pathogenic microbes. Alcoholic 
drinks are only absolutely contra-indicated in cerebral disorders, 
gastro-enteritis, acute typhlitis and with children and nervous 
subjects. 

Wine and alcohol, too much neglected in France, far too much 
valued in Germany in acute diseases, do not act only as light 
anti-febriles and general tonics ; they have other qualities as well : 
they fortify the heart and excite the renal secretion, very valuable 
results in septic diseases. It has been experimentally proved 
that alcohol, far from raising the temperature, tends on the con- 
trary to lower it. Finally it protects the system against nitro- 
genous dissimilation. Yet this precious agent must only be 
resorted to when it is necessary, and if the fever and stomachic 
hyperaesthesia allow it. 

Beer may be given in nearly all chronic or acute illnesses. It 
should be forbidden only in meningitis, peritonitis, typhlitis, 
dysentery and also in the case of patients placed on milk diet. 

494 



DIET IN FEVERS 

We know that weak cardiac tension, whether it results from a 
feverish state or whether it comes from heart weakness, diminishes 
the renal secretion and contributes towards the retention of the 
poisonous urinary matters. By augmenting the sanguineous 
tension and the force of the heart, wine, beer, weak tea, coffee 
diluted with a great deal of water, broth and their alkaloids 
(caffeine, theophylline, theobromine, xanthic bodies, etc.) help 
to re-establish the normal condition. 

The usual drinks of fever patients are water, aerated water — 
artificial or not — with the addition of fruit juices, tisanes and 
lemonades. 

Pure water should not be recommended if the fever is prolonged. 
It helps to deprive the tissues of their minerals. Infusions of 
violet, mallow, barley, rice, decoctions of apples, pears, etc., taken 
cold or hot, are fairly well indicated if it is a question of quenching 
the thirst or ridding the system of its toxins. But tisanes and 
pure water do not successfully fulfil this latter indication if the 
arterial tension is too weak. Water mixed with a little coffee, tea, 
very light white wine, and in some cases with a little cold broth, is 
better than a sweetened infusion of violet or borage, and the 
patient may well prefer even pure water to this latter. It is 
best here to follow his caprice, or rather his instinct. 

Nevertheless, the patient must not be gorged under the pre- 
text of washing the blood with aqueous liquids which overload 
the stomach and intestines, increase the vascular tension, pre- 
dispose to congestions and fatigue the kidneys and heart. But 
the patient should drink enough to dilute his urine and prevent 
overcharging of the kidneys and intestines. For the usual tisanes 
we may substitute hot or cold lemonades of lemon, orange, 
pomegranate, apple, currants, cherry, etc., decoctions of rice and 
barley and even very weak tea, which are agreeable to the 
stomach and aid its secretions. These beverages must be given 
either very hot or cold ; but in this latter case, there must be neither 
lung congestion, diarrhoea, dysentery, nor visceral rheumatism, 
etc. Drinks simply tepid weaken the stomach. Hot drinks 
should be resorted to, especially when it is necessary to excite 
sweating and to warm the patient. 

The diet of the fever patient approaching convalescence is often 
a delicate matter to regulate. This is the time when, judiciously 
administered, milk, starchy soups (sago, barley, tapioca, ground 
rice, etc.), vegetable purees and later, fowl or lamb, boiled fish, 
light dishes, brains, scraped ham, cooked cheeses (Gruyere, etc.), 
pulp of cooked fruits, old and tonic wines, can render real 
service. 



495 



XLVI 

DIET IN DIFFERENT FEBRILE DISORDERS 

ALTHOUGH it is apparent that in acute febrile conditions 
the regimen we have just indicated, always remains 
nearly the same, there are variations necessitated either by the 
condition of the invalids or by the nature and seat of the lesion, 
particularly when it lies in the intestine or brain. It is these 
special cases which I now propose to review. 

Acute Lung Diseases : Pneumonia, Influenza. — In pneumonia, 
warm decoctions of barley or toast water suffice for the first two 
days ; but from the time the pulse becomes small, weak, rapid and 
irregular, and even before these symptoms of heart weakness ap- 
pear, and before there is any tendency to collapse, the patient must 
be sustained by alcoholic beverages taken in very small doses at 
a time, but repeated, such as old wines diluted with water, cham- 
pagne cognac (30 to 120grms. per day for the adult), etc., mixed 
with tea or broth. If needed, weak coffee with very little milk, 
and milk itseK mixed with water, are excellent if the patients 
can support them. Milk is diuretic and its digestion fatigues the 
intestines, liver and kidneys very little. Again, these invalids 
may be given decoctions of alimentary flours in milk, water 
or broth, especially if the pneumonia is prolonged. As was 
stated in the preceding chapter, there is no necessity to fear a 
rise of temperature in feeding or in giving wine or cognac, 
experience having proved the contrary. 

From the time the fever abates soups, vegetable purees, creams, 
raw meat, must again be resorted to. This tonic, diuretic, 
antiseptic and sufficiently solid diet is still more necessary in 
the case of old people and children suffering from lung disease. 

In pneumonia of the grave infectious type, alcoholic drinks, 
Todt's potion, etc., are particularly indicated. Taken with 
quinine and extract of quinquina, thej'- raise the strength of the 
patient and resist intoxication (Huxham, Laenec, Behier, Todt). 

Persons suffering from pneumonia must avoid everything 
which will provoke the cough ; drinks too sweet, too salt or 
too cold, spiced dishes, etc. 

Decoctions of barley, toast water or slightly sweetened water, 
are indicated during the first two days in lobular pneumonia 

496 



DIET IN FEBRILE TUBERCULOSIS 

of children, especially if there is a tendency to vomiting and 
diarrhoea ; they can be fed later with decoctions of flour. Milk 
with them is often the cause of intestinal troubles. 

The same regimen is suitable in pleurisy. If there are false 
membranes or effusions, the patient must be given not only milk 
and a little white wine, which act above all as diuretics, but 
roast meat, broth, eggs, at least from the time when there is 
no, or very little, fever. Persons with purulent pleurisy should 
be put on the same diet as chronic tuberculous patients, that 
is to say, the most solid alimentation the patient is able to 
support. 

In febrile bronchopneumonia, milk, broth, meat and fruit 
juice, grogs, generous wines mixed with water, tea, etc., are 
strongly indicated. The bronchopneumonia of old people re- 
quires the same regimen with the addition of scraped meat — 
roast or raw. 

The preceding rules are also applicable in cases of croupous 
pneumonia. Only the mUk should be replaced by raw scraped 
meat, mixed or not with tepid broth, white or red wine, and 
even cognac. 

In Influenza distinction must be made between the nervous, 
cardio-pulmonary and intestinal forms. 

In the first, the patient should be toned up, and the kidneys 
made to act by abundant drinks slightly alcoholic, sharpish 
and diuretic (couch grass, cherry stalks, aerated waters) ; the 
alimentation is almost the same as in acute pneumonia. In 
order to keep up the patient's strength, to relieve the heart and 
excite the renal functions, milk should be taken. To this, wine 
and even coffee may be added unless cerebral, nervous or 
nauseous phenomena predominate, in which case it is better to 
keep to milk diluted with ptisan of lime flowers, violets or orange 
flower or even with simple ptisans, etc. 

In the intestinal forms of influenza, the regimen is the same 
as in gastro-enteritis. 

If there is adynamia, it is advisable to insist on tonics, alcohol, 
coffee, caffeine. 

Febrile Tuberculosis. — We have already stated (p. 469) how 
the tuberculous patient ought to be fed. Fever is not in this 
case a contra-indication to concentrated alimentation, quite 
the contrary. Only these patients must not be allowed to take 
any but small meals and should repeat them every four hours. 

Dyspepsia and anaemia often impede their alimentation. 
But it is said that the pulp of raw scraped mutton taken at 
the end of a meal without mastication (100 to 120 grms. twice 
a day) is borne by nearly all these invalids. It is for them the 
most valuable of foods. After raw meat comes milk, cocoa, 
chocolate, the yolk of eggs, roast or smoked meat, butter, cream, 

497 K K 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

decoctions of flour of leguminosae, malted or not ; very ripe 
fruits if they can be digested. The milk should be taken as a 
drink, while eating or between meals, with a little coffee or 
cocoa powder. But pure milk or very hot strong tea would 
increase the fever. Bread which brings its phosphates, gener- 
ous wines, beer, cognac if needed, but in small quantities and 
as a digestive, kephir may also be recommended. 

Diffusible stimulants should be avoided if there is any tend- 
ency to haemorrhage. 

The diet of dyspeptic hypochlorhydria (p. 438) is usually that 
which agrees best with these patients who lack appetite. 

If diarrhoea comes on, the cooked meats, milk and eggs must 
be provisionally abandoned and replaced by raw scraped meat 
or the juice of fresh meat pressed raw, albuminous water, water 
and cream of rice, broth with the addition of sago, the white 
decoction of Sydenham, tea, and returning slowly to the ordinary 
diet, when the diarrhoea has completely disappeared. If there is 
a tendency to hemoptysis, wine and too hot or aerated drinks 
must be avoided. 

These patients should be so much the better fed the more fever 
they have, but on condition that the foods given to them are 
well taken, well digested and not in excess, and that the ahmenta- 
tion does not cause a rise of temperature. 

Rheumatism, Pericarditis, Endocarditis. 

Acute Articular Rheumatism. — During the acute period of this 
disease, a milk diet is the only logical one. It produces the mini- 
mum of toxins and increases diuresis. Again it is necessary 
to digest the milk. As drinks, citronade or the alkaline waters 
of Vichy, Boulou and Vals. 

The rest of the regimen is that of ordinary pyrexia. When 
the tem'perature has fallen, the patient is fed as during conva- 
lescence from eruptive fevers. 

Acute Pericarditis and Endocarditis. — Milk again constitutes 
the best regimen in acute pericarditis, but the quantity must be 
reduced to 1 litre per day at the most. Different flours, a little 
cocoa, coffee, tea, and even cognac or kirschwasser, may be added. 
When there is cardiac insufficiency, broth is not favourable. 

In acute endocarditis it is again milk and milk foods which 
best sustain the patient. Broth and meat juice rank second. 
The juices of fruits, acidulated ptisans (citronade, orangeade) 
are very favourable here. Later, eggs, boiled fish, light meats, 
vegetables, coffee and tonic wines may be allowed. 

In disturbances of compensation one can add to the milk 
diet a little raw or lightly grilled scraped meat (200 to 250 grms. 
per day), but it must be remembered that as soon as the arterial 

498 



DIET IN AFFECTIONS OF ALIMENTARY CANAL 

tension becomes insufficient, renal elimination becomes so too, 
and consequently it is necessary in these cases to reduce to a 
minimum the substances such as meat and broth which are the 
origin of nitrogenous waste in the system. 

Acute Meningitis. — In acute affections of the brain, the 
patients usually have nausea or vomiting, constipation and thirst. 
The first few days their food should be diminished inasmuch 
as the appetite is lacking, there is much fever, and it is important 
to reduce the cerebral congestion. Weak liquid diet then is 
indicated for this period and the patient will only be permitted 
iced water or cold infusions of barley, fruits and prunes, 
lemonades and water seasoned with vinegar or flavoured with a 
little mint. Above all these patients must not be given spirits, 
wine, coffee, tea, very hot beverages or broth. When the fever 
has abated, toast-water, fruit jellies, etc., may be given. Later 
the patients will come successively to panades, farinaceous 
soups, light broth, milk diluted with a great deal of water and 
then to cold broth with the addition of yolk of egg. But they 
must not be allowed, even at this stage, vinous liquors and beer, 
which might bring on vomiting again and increase the restless- 
ness. It is only by very slow degrees that the patients can 
return to tea or coffee. 

In cerebro-spinal meningitis the same regimen is admissible. 

If feeding by the stomach continues to provoke vomiting, 
injections of peptons, skimmed peptonized milk, etc., should be 
resorted to. 

Acute Affections of the Alimentary Canal. — In acute febrile 
gastritis (gastric embarrassment, synocha, fever and catarrhal 
fever) the appetite almost disappears. Fresh acidulated drinks 
agree with these patients ; tea, meat or vegetable brotlis gener- 
ally suit them also. When the fever abates, light foods may 
be given, a little fish, roast meat, a few vegetables, fruit, boiled 
eggs and a very small quantity of white wine. 

In cases of acute gastro-enteritis with fever, especially 
if there be vomiting and diarrhoea, and even with young 
children, the temporary suppression of all food is necessary. 
For twenty-four to forty-eight hours a little ice only should 
be permitted which should be left to melt in the mouth, a 
mixture of iced water with about one-twentieth of sUghtly 
sweetened coffee taken in small doses at a time. Later the 
patient may be given, with discretion, barley water acidulated 
with lemon juice and slightly sweetened, vegetable broths, 
albuminous water, toast water and later light farinaceous 
soups, milk diluted with water, taken almost cold and not 
boiled, and last of all, raw scraped meat. So long as the 
acute febrile condition persists, solid foods must not be taken, 
or those which leave any noticeable residue such as meat or 

499 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

vegetables, whatever they may be, even as a puree ; they would 
stimulate the gastro-intestinal peristalsis too much. 

At the commencement of gastro-enteritis, broth and milk should 
also be avoided : the first because it provokes contraction of the 
intestines and irritates the stomach ; the second because it is in 
many cases difficult to digest, especially by reason of its fats and 
because it may thus increase the diarrhoea and nausea. 

If the vomiting continues, the stomach should be given com- 
plete rest, only a little iced water being taken from time to time, 
with nutritious injections of peptons and peptonized milk, etc. 

We shall say a few words here concerning dysentery, although 
it is rarely febrile. 

In the acute stage of this malady, an almost absolute milk 
diet must be observed when it is well su pported . The patient may 
be given skimmed or sterilized milk, boiled and tepid, mixed 
or not according to the case, with a little lime water or sub- 
nitrate of bismuth. This milk (from 2 to 2 5 litres per day) 
should be taken in measures of 150 to 250 cc. at intervals of three 
hours, at least, in small coffeespoonfuls or through a straw ; in a 
word, it should be swallowed slowly and never a glassful at a 
time. If necessary, if this food cannot be supported at all, the 
milk may be replaced by herb broths mixed with a little flour 
or rice (not oats), rice water, albuminous water slightly sweet- 
ened, egg and milk. Fresh scraped mutton or horseflesh and 
skimmed milk diluted with water or a little tea constitute a 
system of feeding which is generally well supported when it is 
given according to the rules that I have so often set forth. It 
maintains the often greatly weakened forces of these invalids. 
It is especially necessary to avoid cold, iced or alcoholic drinks, 
broth, aerated waters and condiments which favour intestinal 
peristaltism. Strong coffee, in very small quantities, may be 
prescribed if the heart has need of a tonic. 

Later, if there is no fever and the diarrhoea is diminishing, the 
patient may return to soups, creams, paps, decoctions of cocoa, 
lentils and green peas, to boiled fish and especially raw scraped 
meat, etc. 

In acute peritonitis the very low diet is indispensable, at least 
at the beginning. Only ice, iced water or cold water, very 
slightly sweetened and alcoholized, must be allowed. But tea, 
coffee, seltzer water, alkaline waters, acid drinks, meat broths, 
hot or cold, should be forbidden. When the fever abates, only 
foods leaving scarcely any residue should be prescribed : rice 
water, toast water or albuminous water, herb broths, very light 
farinaceous soups (without milk or butter) of sago, alimentary 
caseins and cooked and grated cheese. Eventually milk may 
be taken and yolk of egg mixed witli a little thin broth, also 
biscuits, panades, etc. 

500 



DIET IN TYPHOID FEVEH 

In chronic peritonitis broth, jellies, grated meat may be giver! 
and even, in very small quantities, skimmed milk and a little 
Spanish wine or old Burgundy. 

Intestinal troubles of appendicitis should be treated in the 
same manner as we have just described for acute peritonitis. 
A diet of solid foods, sugar and water, mixed or not with a very 
little milk, toast water, light starchy soups, etc., constitute the 
regimen in these cases, when the intestines should above all be 
guarde against irritation, and irritable conditions allayed even 
by opiates. 

In typhoid fever, an absolute low diet is not suitable ; in spite 
of the temperature, and intestinal ulcerations, the patient must 
be fed in moderation with skimmed milk, oatmeal or sago soups, 
meat jellies, broth either pure or mixed with well prepared 
peptons ; wine, or even champagne cognac, tea and coffee, espe- 
cially if there is prostration, tremblings, stupor, adynamia, 
if the fever has lasted long and if the heart is growing weak. 
Alcohol should not be taken in cases of intense cephalalgia, acute 
delirium, extreme dryness of the skin or albuminuria (Murchisson). 
Alcoholic drinks are contra-indicated in the case of children, 
if there is high temperature or much cephalalgia. 

In this long illness, ptisans with sugar and even glycerines 
and decoctions of cereals do good service. The juices of dif- 
ferent fruits (apples, peaches, pears, currants, etc.) may be added 
to them, also fresh meat juice obtained by strong pressure (see 
p. 140), meat jellies and when possible skimmed milk, pure or 
diluted with alkaline waters. Milk is both diuretic and disin- 
fecting. Unfortunately it is very rarely supported, at least in 
the pure state ; it often provokes tympanites, colic and vomit- 
ing. It must besides be always given skimmed with the addition 
of a little cognac, rum, coffee, and a few drops of cherry-laurel 
water, etc. 

The diuretic ptisans, weak tea, aqueous drinks of fruit juices 
(apples, orange, lemon, cherries, currants) with the addition of 
a little coffee, which sustains the heart, should only be taken in 
small quantities at a time, but frequently. Care must be taken, 
indeed, not to distend the stomach and increase dyspnoea. 
With these precautions, 2 litres per day may be given of it. If 
there is vomiting, lemonades and aerated waters should be 
resorted to. Of all these drinks pure fresh water, as a rule, 
suits the patient best. Diarrhoea can be contended with by 
mucilage water, rice or quince water. 

In the sudorific, renal, haemorrhagic or hematuric forms, 
skimmed milk is most particularly recommended. 

Since the time of Brown and Graves, Enghsh doctors have 
fed fever patients, and particularly typhus patients. Trousseau, 
Aran, Behier, Piorry and Lorrain advised this method, and the 



t)IE!T AND DIETETICS 

recent trials made in France (Vaquez), Germany (Bauer and 
Kiintsley, Puritz), Russia (Gournitzki, Botkiii) to give typhoid 
patients a more solid nourishment, even with milk (half a cup 
every two hours), appear to have generally succeeded. Rice 
broth, broth with the addition of a little grated cheese, casein, 
yolk of egg or Malaga, soups, meat jelly and even (though in 
very small quantity) little balls of raw scraped meat or meat 
very lightly broiled, finally, and in a general way, all foods which 
are easy to digest and which leave very little intestinal residue 
(milk, oysters, lean fish cooked in water), all taken in small 
quantities at a time, in such a way as not to cause diarrhoea, 
may suit these invalids from the time their temperature falls 
and oscillates in the neighbourhood of 38°. 

Albuminoid foods are well digested by these invahds. It 
has been seen that with them eggs or meat do not produce 
albuminuria. They often cause diarrhoea to stop. Fever is not 
increased by them. Out of eleven patients thus treated, Vaquez 
has never had a case of haemorrhage ^ 

Naturally it is necessary here especially to avoid aU excess 
of foods ; the temperature becomes higher as soon as the 
diarrhoea increases. When there is indigestion and relapse, a 
stricter diet must be reverted to. 

When there is loss of blood by the intestines, the patient 
should abstain from food and be given only cold drinl^, iced 
ptisans of rice, barley, lemon, at the very most toast water or 
albuminous water. If it is absolutely necessary to sustain him, 
it must be by means of nutritious injections ; if the heart 
becomes weak, injections of artificial serum and of caffeine should 
be resorted to. 

Later, the patient may return to soups of flour, creams of 
rice or sago, to jellies, milk and even raw meat and boiled eggs, 
etc., but all foods which leave notable quantities of solid 
residue, such as ordinary meat and herbaceous vegetables, 
should be as much as possible set aside. 

It is in the adynamic states or during convalescence from 
this serious illness that wine, and particularly good old wines 
of Burgundy, Bordeaux and Roussillon, especially the red wines, 
may render great service. Red wine acts at once by its alcohol, 
its tannin and its tonic colouring matters, by its organic iron 
which allows of the reglobulization of the blood and by its per- 
fumes which revive the stomach. But whether white or red, 
wine sliould only be allowed in small spoonfuls at a time, 
diluted or not with water, sweetened or not, and always at the 
end of a light meal or after a little milk. 

The premonitory troubles of cJiolera are advantageously 

1 Vaquez, Alimentation dans la typhoide, Presse M^dicale, Paris, 1900. 

502 



DIET IN ERUPTIVE FEVERS 

combated from the diuretic standpoint by drinks acidulated 
with hydrochloric acid (medicinal acid 6 grms., water 1 litre) 
or with lactic acid (6 grms. per litre) mixed with a little cognac 
and sugar, or by allowing small pieces of ice to melt in the mouth 
in case of any tendency to vomiting. As foods, a little flour 
of rice soup, albuminous water, etc. If the illness progressed 
and if the collapse were becoming accentuated, hot wine, grogs, 
lemonade with the addition of rum and vanilla, coffee slightly 
sweetened and mixed with cognac, etc., would be particularly 
indicated. In cases of anuria, these last beverages should be 
insisted on, and if need be, injections of artificial serum should 
be given. After the crisis a return may be made to a more 
solid diet by adhering to the above rules and treating the 
patient in the manner described for convalescence after serious 
fevers. 

Acute Nephritis, Acute Cystitis. — Concerning acute' nephritis we 
must remember the injunctions that we gave apropos of chronic 
nephritis (p. 439). They must be applied here even more strictly. 
The patient must be kept severely at rest and on milk diet, he 
must avoid all meat extracts and meat itself so long as the acute 
stage lasts ; he must be limited to adding to the milk, deprived 
of its butter or not, a little bread or barley or oat flour ; all 
spices, coffee and fermented liquors must be avoided. 

During acute cystitis the same regimen must be followed ; 
the patient must drink abundantly of pure water, toast water, 
barley water, decoctions of fruits or cereals diluted and slightly 
perfumed, milk mixed with water. 

Eruptive Fevers. — They do not give an opening for special 
indications from the point of view of diet. One must be guided 
here by general principles, the signs given by the invalid, the 
intensity of the fever, the state of the heart. Except during 
the acute febrile stage in scarlet fever, the patient should eat 
if he is hungry. In measles especially, and in spite of the fever, 
the patient may be fed with broth, panades, with or without 
yolk of egg and meat juice. As drinks, lemonades, different 
infusions taken tepid, wine and water. If it were necessary 
to revive the strength, tea, coffee and even a little cognac should 
be given. In scarlet fever, on the contrary, by reason of the 
possible complication of nephritis, it is well during the whole of 
the acute stage to limit the invalid to aqueous acidulated drinks, 
to decoctions of cereals, to skimmed milk diluted with a great 
deal of water. But in this illness, whatever be the stage at 
which it has arrived, the kidneys must be relieved ; to do this, 
broth and meat extracts or juice, which bring their leucomains 
and other nitrogenous waste matters, must be avoided. Like- 
wise alcohol, highly seasoned and salted dishes must be for- 
bidden to these sick persons ; a milk diet must be insisted on, 

503 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

and the rules of alimentation applied that we have given for 
nephritis (p. 439). 

Patients attacked with exanthemaiic typhus should, accord- 
ing to Graves, be fed from the third or fourth day with milk, 
gruels, rice, broth, tea, coffee, wine, grogs if they can support 
alcohol. The drinks should be abundant, acidulated or slightly 
alcoholic. Phosphoric acid (10 to 15 grms. of medicinal acid 
for 300 or 500 grms. of beverage) has been recommended. 

In many infectious febrile diseases, one should take into 
account these last observations founded on the condition of 
the congested kidneys which are threatened with inflammation 
and degeneration and irritated by the poison which they excrete. 

The same applies when, during the course of these fevers, 
the intestine is inflamed or rather attacked with specific erup- 
tions and ulcerations, as in small-pox. It is advisable in these 
cases to feed the patient entirely on milk, panades, jeUies, starchy 
soups and, if necessary, to confine the diet to ptisans of cereals 
with the help of opiates. 

Puerperal Fever, Septicemia, Erysipelas, Diphtheria. — In puer- 
peral fever, as soon as it is possible, the patient's strength must 
be sustained by broth taken tepid, with or without yolk of egg, 
but above all and from the beginning by alcoholic beverages, 
iced champagne, meat juice, cafe au lait and coffee. If there 
is peritonitis, the patient should be fed in the way given, while 
speaking of this malady. 

This is also the regimen for septicemia, yellow fever, plague, 
and erysipelas, disorders in which it is necessary to take into 
account gastro-intestinal compUcations (see Typhoid fever, 
p. 501), and at the same time to sustain the patient's strength 
by diffusible stimulants such as broth, meat juice, alcohol, 
tonics of every kind, accompanied by abundant acidulated 
drinks. 

In erysipelas, where the kidneys may be altered by the elimi- 
nation of the toxins, milk diet is indicated, especially if there is 
any fever. In adynamic forms white wine, coffee, and tonic 
alimentation (see Tuberculosis, pp. 469, 497) may be necessary, 
but the kidneys must always be watched from the standpoint 
of albuminuria. 

During diphtheria, especially in grave forms, the patient 
must be sustained by coffee, alcoholic wines, diluted and sweet- 
ened cognac. Even children from three to four years old may 
be given 4 to 6 grms. of cognac mixed with two parts of sweet- 
ened water four times a day. Diphtheric patients require an 
alimentation as rich as possible, and if necessary their appetite 
should be stimulated by bitters. Milk is often proscribed in 
this case, as it may whiten the tongue and the throat and pre- 
vent the false membranes from being clearly distinguished. But 

504 



DIET IN SEPTIC FEVERS 

to-day, especially in cases of serotherapy, we must not reject 
milk which is an excellent diuretic, and can besides be diluted 
with tea, coffee and white wine mixed with water. As other 
foods, there are cream, meat juices and eggs, except if albu- 
minuria is present, in which case we must return to milk diet 
and to white wine mixed with water. 

Intermittent and Remittent Fevers. — In intermittent fevers 
the patient should be fed in the best way possible. During 
apyrexia, his regimen ought to be that of anaemic subjects. 
This is a case when it is especially necessary to prescribe strength- 
ening foods such as meat and tonics like coffee and generous 
wines, which the stomach of malarial patients generally manages 
to support very well. 

In remittent fevers the patient, as in hectic fever, must be fed, 
especially at the time when the temperature oscUlates. As in 
the preceding case, the foods which best suit their taste are 
above all tonic substances such as meat juice obtained by 
pressure, underdone meat, eggs, fish, milk, small quantities of 
cognac, Bordeaux and Burgundy wine, etc. 



505 



XLVII 

DIET OF CONVALESCENTS AND OF SURGICAL CASES — LOSS AND 
RECOVERY OF MINERALS IN THE TISSUES OF THE ORGANISM 

THE diet of convalescents and of those wlio have undergone 
operations should provide the tissues not only with the 
organic principles which they lack, but also with the mineral 
materials necessary to their reconstitution. So we shall treat 
in the same chapter about the diet of convalescence and about 
the methods of restoring minerals to the organism. 

Diet of Convalescents and of Surgical Cases. 

Diet of Convalescents. — The losses incurred by the organism in 
the course of febrile ailments may be enormous, especially among 
children and young people. They affect at the same time the 
nitrogenous, the ternary and the saline principles. The invalid 
reduced by abstinence or fever has then great need of food. But 
it must be given with prudence : convalescents often suffer 
from a dyspeptic condition or from a stomachic erethism which 
prevents their being well fed ; the intestines may remain irritable 
and the nerve centres only receive with an extreme morbid over- 
excitabiHty the impression of a fresh regimen. 

In the course of the febrile period, the invahds have first lost 
their fats, at the same time and in a less degree, they have 
become poor in albuminoid principles and mineral salts. The aim 
is to restore all the tissues in the quickest and best way possible. 
As to the fats, we know that they are easily recuperated by 
means of the alimentary carbohydrates. No need, in conse- 
quence, to insist on making convalescents take butter and other 
fatty foods which they would not always digest. Light soups of 
oatmeal, rice flour, rice, tapioca or the juice of fruits ; milk foods 
and creams made from a mixture of yolk of eggs, milk and flour 
of cereals ; honey, sweetened jams, very ripe fruits, particularly 
grapes, etc., enable us to introduce into the system sufficient 
carbo-hydrates easily assimilable to renew the lost fats. 

As far as proteids are concerned they must only be allowed 
with reserve for fear of indigestion. They do not always assimi- 
late easily, and fairly small quantities are sufficient for convales- 

506 



DIET OF CONVALESCENTS 

cents. Milk, eggs, grated ham given in small quantities at a 
time, some purees of seed or green vegetables and bread provide 
ample fare. In general, 50 to 60 grnis. daily of proteid substances, 
that is to say nearly half the albuminoids of the alimentary 
allowance of a healthy man, are a maximum. 

The convalescent must be fed by small meals only, every four 
hours for example, in order to try the stomach without ever 
overloading it. Salad, cabbage, mushrooms, acid, tough or oily 
fruits, spiced condiments, high game, pork, too fat fish, Crustacea 
and chocolate must be forbidden. ^ 

Milk is, par excellence, the food of convalescents ; if they can- 
not take it (which is rare) it is necessary to endeavour to make 
them tolerate it, sweetened or salted, or with the addition of a 
little cognac, kirschwasser, cherry-laurel or orange flower water, 
coffee, tea, and cocoa partially freed from its fat. Milk may be 
raw or cooked, mixed or not with water, lime water, Vichy, etc. 
When it has been freed from butter by churning and sterilized, 
it is an excellent food for convalescents. 

With or after milk soups, panades, semolinas, biscuits, meals 
and the farinaceous preparations which are manufactured in so 
many forms, vegetable purees and fish cooked in salted water, 
may be allowed. This fish (sole, dab, whiting, turbot) is rich in 
albuminoids and phosphorus and easily digested. Sprinkled 
with a little lemon, it is generally much more agreeable to con- 
valescents than ordinary meat, above all beef, veal or pork, 
which are more difficult to digest and which leave in the intestine 
more toxic compounds (E. Cassaet). The flesh of boiled fowl is 
also very easy of digestion. Grated raw meat, swallowed with- 
out being masticated, is still more so ; but it may be disagreeable 
to convalescents. 

Mineral salts are the third kind of food indispensable to con- 
valescents. Phosphates, above all the salts of potash, have been 
lost in the course of the illness and often in very large quantities ; 
the deglobulization has attacked the hsematogenous elements 
and caused the disappearance of these salts the elimination of 
which is, according to Salkowski, three to four times more ener- 
getic during fever than in the normal state ; lime and magnesia 
are at the same time passed in the urine without the incomplete 
recovery of the patient having been able to restore them. It is 
necessary then for convalescents, especially those who have been 
on low diet for a long time, for children and youths, as well as for 
every invalid who has undergone hoomorrhage, to have a diet 
which will replace minerals liberally. 

One of the most efficacious foods for this purpose, after milk, 

1 Pure chocolate, espocially boiled in water, is very indigestible; cocoa, 
when its fat has been removed, is less so. 

507 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

is meat broth whicli brings with it the salts of the museulai' 
tissue, that is to say of tlie tissue, the mass of which is mucli 
the most preponderant. Broth is particularly rich in phos- 
phates of potash and in salts of magnesia. If need be, casein 
powder may be added : this also provides its contingent of phos- 
phorus and lime. Bread, milk and vegetable purees especially, 
furnish the means of introducing into the system mineral 
substances, particularly phosphorus, in the most assimilable 
forms. We know that it is found in cereals and bread and 
especially in vegetables in the form of phytin, an oxymethy- 
lenophosphoric combination. Introduced directly into the 
system, the salts of this organic phosphoric acid seem to 
have given excellent results compared with the other phos- 
phorous compounds and in particular with mineral phosphates 
(see p. 333). 

Finally, in order to hasten remineralization, liquids or arti- 
ficial powders of a composition analogous to that of the ashes of 
the blood and containing in the same relations as these chlorides 
phosphates, carbonates ... of potash, soda, lime, magnesia may 
be resorted to. We shall return to these farther on (p. 511). 

Remineralizing drinks are also very useful. The best are decoc- 
tions of cereals (oats, barley, flour of wheat, etc.) accompanied by 
a Uttle old red Bordeaux wine which acts as a light and organic 
ferruginous tonic. Later on Burgundy or light beer may be 
allowed, in small quantities at a time. 

Together with small quantities of these stimulants, some spices, 
like salt, vinegar and bitters may be allowed when it is necessary 
to stimulate the intestinal functions and the appetite. 

Diet after Operations. — This diet resembles that of convalescents, 
but with some variations having their importance. 

The patient who is to undergo a surgical operation ought to 
have his stomach free from food for six or eight hours at least, 
and in consequence not to have eaten anything for eight or 
twelve hours, the action of chloroform generally provoking, 
during the twenty -four to forty-eight hours following the 
operation, a condition of nausea, and sometimes vomiting which 
it is necessary to guard against. After the operation, the 
patient should be given by spoonfuls, iced water mixed or not 
with a very small quantity of coffee, and later on a little broth and 
even wine. This diet is sufficient for the first twenty-four hours. 
Afterwards purees, panades, or other semi-liquid foods very easily 
digested may be given, and towards the third day, milk foods and 
the feeding of convalescents previously described. 

If the operation took place in the stomach, it would be neces- 
sary to give opium to take away the appetite, and only to feed 
the patient by the rectum for three or four days. We shall 
return to this (p. 527). Ifc is possible afterwards to return 

508 



DIET OF REMINERALIZATtON OF TISSUES 

to direct feeding, on the fifth or sixth day with soups, flours, milk, 
etc., all in small quantities at a time. 

The same precautions ought to be taken after operations 
on the intestine. Raw grated meat, milk, paps, eggs may be 
administered from the fourth or fifth day. 

Diet to Restore Minerals. 

Mineral starvation is produced in convalescence from nearly 
all acute and in many chronic illnesses, more particularly in 
pulmonary phthisis, in many cases of anaemia with or without 
chlorosis, in certain forms of haemoglobinuria, dyspepsia, diabetes, 
azoturia, etc. It exists to a more or less marked degree in all 
invalids. 

We know that the system deprived of salts only protects 
itself with difficulty against the action of toxins ; a dog fed on 
meat exhausted beforehand of mineral substances, dies more 
rapidly than one which has been put on extreme low diet 
(Forster). We know also that the muscular, and especially the 
nervous tissues, have need principally of phosphorus, potash 
and magnesia to restore themselves, that the red corpuscles dis- 
appear or no longer reproduce themselves if the plasmas are 
impoverished in alkaline salts ; that the elimination of the 
toxic nitrogenous materials is assured by the salts of soda ; 
finally that the intra-cellular oxidations can only be accom- 
plished in the midst of alkaline plasmas. 

Whilst it exhausts the plasmas of mineral salts, the illness 
enriches the urine with them, temporarily at least, and it is pos- 
sible, by the study of the blood and renal secretion, to have the 
proof of these two continuous actions which measure the 
demineralization. 

It is indeed characterized, on the one hand, by the impoverish- 
ment of the blood plasma in mineral salts, and by the enrichment 
of the urine in organic products on the other. M. A. Robin gives 
the name of coefficient of urinary demineralization to the relation 
existing between the mineral principles and the total residue of 
the urine. This relation varies in the normal state from 29 to 
32 per cent. Its general average is 30, that is to say that in a 
state of health, for 100 parts of dry urinary residue 30 parts are 
formed by mineral salts. But among invalids who are being 
demineralized, 50 per cent, and more of the urinary residue may 
be formed by mixed salts. In the same way, the proportion of 
the inorganic salts of the blood to the total residue, is in the normal 
state 5 per cent. ; but, if there is demineralization of the organism 
this proportion may be lowered to 3 per cent, and even less. 

Here is, taken from a feniale patient, an example of anapmia 
by demineralization of the liumours ; I borrow it from the same 
author : — 

509 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Per Litre. 



Density 

Total residue .... 
Organic residue 
Mineral residue 

mineral residue 



Ratio 



total residue 




The urine presented the following characteristics :- 



Density 

Total residue (per litre) 
Organic „ „ „ 



Jlineral 
Ratio 
Ratio 



mineral matter 



total residue 

P205 _ 

total nitrogen 
Nitrogen eliminated (per litre) 
Nitrogen eliminated (per kgrm. ) 



Urine of De- 
mineralization 
per 24 hours. 



1-017 grms 
36-6 
18-8 
17-8 

48-5% 



Per kilogrni. of 
Body Weight. 



0-852 grms. 
0-458 „ 
0-414 „ 

48-5% 



0-288 
0-240 



Korinal Urine 
per kilogrni. of 
Body Weight. 



1-018 grms. 

0-810 „ 

0-605 „ 

0-289 „ 

31% 

•^ /O 

0-161 „ 

0-146 „ 



The coefficient of urinary demineralization which rises here 
to 48*5 per cent, would (be enough to well characterize, in the 
case which we are analysing, the state of active impoverishment 
of the organism in mineral salts. In the course of some diseases , 
this coefficient rises remarkably above the normal, which is 31 
per cent. : in tvherculosis, for example, it rises to 45 and 46 per 
cent, at the beginning, then falls to 38 and 35 per cent., and only 
returns to 30 per cent, when, having reached the third period of 
the disease, the organism is almost exhausted of all its reserves 
of salts. In hsemoglobinuria, whatever be the cause or effect, 
demineralization still expresses itself by high coefficients reach- 
ing 43 per cent. In certain varieties of dyspepsia with hyper- 
chlorhydria, the coefficient of demineraUzation also increases, and 
may be maintained much above the normal even when hypo- 
chlorhydria succeeds to the first state. Scurvy is again a malady 
of demineralization or perhaps of non-mineralization for want of 
vegetable salts, of potash in particular. 

The demineralization of the plasmas acts necessarily on tlie 
anatomic elements which the salts are charged with preserving 
and nourishing. In a demineralized blood plasma, the globules 
of the blood alter. In the midst of a tissue irrigated by deminer- 
alized blood, organic an?emia, deglobulization, anoerobic cellu- 
lar destruction, succeed mineral anaemia and are the consequence 
of it. Hence haemorrhages, methemoglobinuria, discharges of 

510 



DIET OF REMINERALIZATION 

uric acid and toxins, diminution of the oxidations and particularly 
the lowering of the coefficient of oxidation of sulphur and of 
weight of urea in the twenty-four hours , which is observable in 
these cases. 

How can we remineralize the organism ? Evidently first by 
combating the causes of demineralization, hyperchlorhydria, 
dyspepsia, leucocytosis, anaemia, phosphorism, etc., on the 
other hand, by providing the organism abundantly with the salts 
in which it is lacking. These may reach the invalid by means 
of foods or medicaments. 

In order to choose between these two ways, it is necessary to 
take the state of the stomach into consideration : if it can digest 
vegetables, fresh or dry, bread, milk or wine, these will suffice 
at need to furnish the invalid with the quantity of salts of potash, 
lime, magnesia, phosphoric acid, etc., which he lacks. 

In the contrary case, medical treatment should be resorted to 
first, and the same salts given to the patient by the stomach in 
the form of powders or solutions, for the hypodermic method 
has numerous inconveniences. It does not allow the mineral 
elements to be organified in passing through the alimentary canal, 
that is to say, to take, whilst combining with the nitrogenous or 
ternary matter in process of digestion, the form which is most 
suitable to their rapid assimilation. 

Phosphorus in the state of phosphates, of glycerophosphates, 
of lecithins and phytine may be given by the stomach or in the 
digestible forms which it possesses in certain foods : yolks of 
eggs, seeds of vegetables, bread, fish, Crustacea, brains, etc., foods 
rich in phosphorated organic products very readily assimilable. 

Amongst the best remineralizing agents, we should mention 
decoctions of the flour of cereals (barley, wheat, oats) rich in 
organic phosphorus and in salts of potash and magnesia as has 
already been shown. 

We may also make use of the mineralizing powder formulated 
by A. Robin, a complex powder to which lie has given the signi- 
ficant name of theriaque minerale and which he compounds as 
follows : — 

grms. I grms. 

Salt 15 j Haemoglobin in powder . , 2-50 



Chloride of potash . 
Pliosphato of soda . 
„ „ pota.sh 

Fluoride of sodium 



10 ' Glycerophosphate of iron . 15 

13 Yolk of egg dry .... 15 

6 Lactose 10 

1 Casein 5 



Glycerophosphate of lime . ^ Powder of St. Ignatius bean 1 

„ „ magnesia >aa 1 | „ „ rhubarb ... 4 

Sulphate of potash . . ) I 

In this mixture, at once medicinal and alimentary, each element 
plays its special role. Tlie fluoride of sodium (lto2 centigrnis. 
per day) is added with the object of preventing in the stomach 

511 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

faulty digestion and bacterial fermentation. Two to three grms. 
daily may be taken of the powder. 

When anaemia continues for a long time and the red blood 
corpuscles increase slowly, a supplement of salts of iron is of great 
advantage either in the form of oxalate or of ferro-potassic 
tartrate or of h»matogen so abundant in the young leaves of 
edible vegetables such as spinach, salads, etc., or in the state in 
which the iron is found in the tonic wines of Bordeaux, Burgundy, 
RoussiUon or Spain. The small proportion of mineral or organic 
arsenic of foods may also play its part. 

In the case of the invalid of A. Robin, who was anaemic from 
demineraHzation, and which we have just quoted (p. 510), the 
remineralizing cure which we have described was confirmed, after 
treatment, by the following results : — 



Density of the urine 

Total residue . 
Organic „ 
Mineral „ 
Ratio : 

mineral matter 
total residue 
NaCl eliminated . 
Ratio : 

_ P205 

total nitrogen 
Eliminated nitrogen 



State of the Urine, 



Per 24 
Hours. 



1-009 
grms. 

41-25 

19 

16-25 



Perkilognn, 
of Body 
Weight. 



grms. 
0-993 
0-632 
0-361 



State of the Blood. 
Per litre. 



35-59% 


35-59% 


11-26 


0-247 


7-9% 


7-9% 



Density .... 

Solid residue per litre 
Organic residue . 
Mineral „ 
Ratio -. 

mineral salts 

total residue 



— i 0146 



1-050 
grms. 

204 

195-5 
8-85 



4-33% 



After the remineralizing treatment, the aggregate of exchanges 
had become normal (0- 994 grm.per kilogramme of body weight) ; 
the organic matters eliminated had passed from 0"438 grm. 
to 632 grm. per kilogramme of body weight, whilst the mineral 
matters were diminishing, passing from 4 14 grm. to 361 
grm. per kilogramme. The blood was enriched at the same time 
in organic and in mineral principles, but the latter had pro- 
gressed more than the former and the ratio — - — 

total residue 

had risen, for the blood, from 291 to 433 per cent., that is to 
say, the mineral matters of the blood plasma had increased 
more than one half. 



512 



1 



XLVIII 

ALIMENTATION IN HOSPITALS, ASYLUMS AND PEISONS IN FRANCE 

WE cannot in this work omit to treat of alimentation in 
asylums and hospitals, though not, as we have just done 
in the preceding chapters, by considering the diet which suits 
each complaint and each separate case, but by regarding it this 
time from the standpoint of the whole of the inmates of the 
hospitals, acute or chronic patients, old people, aided people, 
infirm people, invalids or healthy people of every sort, attached 
to these institutions. 

To the general study of alimentation in hospitals, we will add 
a few facts concerning alimentation in prisons ; the sick person 
lives a little after the manner of a prisoner and the latter is very 
often ill. It would not be possible to entirely separate the study 
of their respective regimens. 

Alimentation in the Hospitals. 

First of all two important remarks must be made here : On 
the one hand the sick person, either from want of appetite or lack 
of exercise or exaggerated impressionability, is more difficult to 
feed with common or badly prepared dishes than the healthy 
man outside the hospital with a strong stomach strengthened by 
the open air and by sufficient physical exercise. The sick person 
requires then, if not choice dishes, at least foods of good quality. 
On the other hand, wounded people, convalescents, and especially 
during the first weeks, a man of the lower classes attacked with 
a chronic disease who, when made to rest, is benefited by a 
regimen often more healthy tlian Ms usual regimen, generally 
eats more than in the normal state, and at first gains very sen- 
sibly in weight at the hospital. It is necessary then that in the 
case of the hospital patient who has no fever, the quantities 
of food allotted should be at least equal to those of a liealthy man 
of the same weight. It may be admitted that these foods ought 
to furnish those who receive tlie entire ration {4th degree or four 

513 L L 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

portions of the Paris hospitals) with a regimen corresponding to 
the following numbers of Calories : — 





For 8 Weight of Body of 


Men 
Women . 


50 kgs. 60 kgs. 
— 2,300 Cals. 
1,900 Cals. 1 2,100 „ 


70 kgs. 
2,500 Cals. 



Except for women during confinement and wet nurses, a 
woman requires about one-fifth less food than a man of the same 
age. On the contrary, we have seen that, for the same weight, 
children should be fed with twice as much as adults. A boy 
weighing 30 kgrms. should receive as much food as a grown man 
of 60 kgrms. 

Alimentation of Hospital Patients. — According to the Regulation 
of 1867 on the alimentary regimen of the hospitals of Paris, a 
regulation called after Husson i which has since remained in 
force, sick people may be subjected, according to the daily 
prescriptions of the physician, to the following four modes of 
alimentation : (a) absolute diet ; (b) simple broth diet ; (c) soup 
alimentation ; {d) solid alimentation. 

(a) Absolute diet. — Patients undergoing this regimen receive 
only non-alimentary liquids and ptisans. 

(6) Simple broth diet. — In this case patients receive four portions 
of 25 centilitres each per day (in all 1 litre) of thick broth ; 
children 800 centilitres. 

(c) Patients on soup diet. — With this regimen adult men receive 
per twenty -four hours : — 

Thick broth 500 cc. 

Thick meat soup ...... fiOO „ 

Wine 120 „ 

We shall see later how this broth and soup are obtained. 

(d) Patients on a diet of solid foods. — In their turn, these invalids, 
who receive meat and bread, are fed in four degrees differing 
according to their condition from the first degree, for those who 
are fed the least, up to the fourth, which corresponds to the 
alimentation of convalescents in full course of recovery. The 
second and third degrees are, however, very rarely used by the 
doctors. I shall indicate in the following tables for each degree 
only the quantities of food distributed to men, the corresponding 
regimen for women being the same, but lessened by a quarter to 
one-sixth according to the case, and that of children being double 
that which is necessary for the same weight of an adult. I shall 

' Reglement sur le regime alimentaire des hopitaux et hospices civils de 
Paris, 1867 (Husson, rapporteur). 



ALIMENTATION IN HOSPITALS 

also note in these tables only the weight of prepared dishes ; it is a 
fact that roast or boiled meat corresponds to a double weight of 
raw meat ; that cooked fruits lose a quarter of their weight, fish a 
third, fresh vegetables a third, after peeling and cooking ; that 
dry vegetables, on the contrary, increase by half ; that cooked 
rice increases fivefold in weight by absorbing water. These coeffi- 
cients will enable us, at will, to pass from the weights indicated 
above to those of each of the foods before cooking. Seasonings 
are not included in these tables. 

Here is, then, according to the Reglement administratij named 
after M. Husson, the composition of the four regimens of the 
Parisian hospitals for patients put on 1, 2, 3 and 4 portions. 



A. Patients op the 1st Degree (or Patients 

ON One Portion). 

a. For the \ White bread 

day /Wine 

b. Petit dejeuner before the doctor's visit. Milk 

c. Morning (Meat soup 

meal I Roast meat 

(1st Meat soup 
/Poultry (twice a week) . . 
2nd!°""°t " " " • • 
j or fish „ „ . . 
\oT fresh eggs (once a week) 

B. Invalids of the 2nd Degree (or Invalids 

ON Two Portions). 

a. For the ) White bread 

day /Wine 

b. Petit dejeuner before the j vegetable soup . 

doctor's visit lor milk 

Vegetable soup 

, . I Roast meat (5 times a week) 
lor stew (twice a week) 

1 Fresh eggs „ ,, 

or cooked fruit (once a week) 
or prunes (twice a week) . 
or rice in milk (twice a week) 

1st Meat soup 

Q w Boiled meat (5 times a week) 
( or fish (twice a week) . 
/'Vegetables in season (5 times a 
I week) 




Youths 
12-15 yrs. okl 



Midday 
meal 



Evening 
meal 



120 grms. 
240 ec. 
250 „ 
300 „ i 

60 grms. ! 
300 cc. 

60 grms, 

60 „ 

80 „ 
1 egg 



240 grms. 
240 cc. 
300 cc. 



00 grms. 

60 „ 
1 egg 
100 grms. 

90 cc. 
100 grms. 
300 cc. 

60 grms. 

80 „ 

80 cc. 



3rd 



(children, 4 times) 
otatoes in milk (twi( 
^OT preserves (once a week) 



I or potatoes in milk (twice a weekj 120 grms. 
I" 



90 grms. 
160 cc. 
200 „ 
250 „ 

40 grms. 
250 cc. 

40 grms. 

60 „ 

50 „ 

1 eee 



180 grms. 
160 cc. 



200 

250 

40 

40 

1 

60 

60 

50 

250 

40 

50 



grms. 

egg 

grms. 

cc. 

grms. 

cc. 

grms. 



50 cc. 
80 grms. 
30 grms. 



Each soup or stew includes 300 cc. of brotli, 30 grms. of bread 
or 20 grms. of paste for adults ; 250 cc. of broth, 20 grms. of 
bread or 10 grms. of paste for children. 

515 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



C. Invalids of the 3kd Degree (or Invalids 
ON Three Portions). 

a. For the \ White bread 

day i Wine . . ^ 

b. Petit dejeuner in the morning. Vegetable soup 
Vegetable soup 

[Roast meat (3 times a week) . 
I or internal organs (once a week) 
\ or boiled meat dressed (3 times 
I a week) 
Vegetables in season (once a 

week) 
or dry vegetables (5 times a 

week) 
or eggs cooked (once a week) . 

Meat soup 

Q^ , / Boiled meat (6 times a week) 
t or fish (once a week) 



Midday 
meal 



Evening 
meal 



1st 



2nd 



1st 



/'Fresh vegetables (3 times a week 
„ 1 I or potatoes (twice a week) 



D 



or rice with milk or with meat 
1, soup (twice a week) 

Invalids of the 4th Degree (or Invalids 
on Four Portions). 

a. For the ) W' hite bread 

day /Wine 

b. Petit dfjeuner in the morning. Vegetable soup 
( 1st Vegetable soup 

/Roast meat (3 times a week) . 
„ , I or internal organs (once a week) 
^ I or boiled beef dressed (3 times 
' a week) 

/vegetables in season (once a 
I week) or dry vegetables (5 times 



Midday 
meal 



3rd 



1 a week) 



[or cooked eggs (once a week) . 

I 1st Meat soup 
p , / Boiled meat (6 times a week) . 
I or fish (once a week) . 
r Fresh vegetables (3 times a 
meal \ I week) 

I ^ or potatoes (twice a week) . 
I or rice with milk or meat soup 
(twice a week) 



3rd 



Men. 


Youtlis 
12-15 yrs. old 


360 grms. 
360 cc. 


270 grms. 
240 cc. 


300 „ 


250 „ 


-r- 


250 „ 


60 grms. 
80 „ 


40 grms. 
60 „ 


60 „ 


40 „ 


120 „ 


80 „ 


* 120 „ 


80 „ 


1| eggs 
300 cc. 


legg 
250 cc. 


90 grms. 
120 „ 


60 grms. 
80 „ 


120 cc. 


88 cc. 


180 „ 


120 „ 


150 „ 


75 „ 


480 grms. 
480 cc. 


360 grms. 
240 cc. 


300 „ 


250 „ 


— 


250 „ 


90 grms. 
120 „ 


60 grms. 
80 „ 


90 „ 


60 „ 


160 cc. 


100 cc. 


1 60 grms. 


120 grms. 


2 eggs 
300 cc. 


H eggs 
250 cc. 


120 grms. 
160 „ 


80 grms. 
100 „ 


160 cc. 


100 cc. 


240 „ 


160 „ 


200 „ 


100 „ 



Alimentation of the Healthy, the Infirm, and Old People. — The 
healthy, the infirm, incurable old people and lunatics receive in 
our asylums the following quantities of food^: — 



1 It will be remembered that these quantities are calculated for prepared 
food and for adult men ; that for women tliere is a difference of a quarter 
to one-sixth less. 

516 



ALIMENTATION IN HOSPITALS 

Feeding of Adults (Men) Healthy or Insane in the Asylums of 

Paris. 



d. 



For the Q^*- ^tf.f T^ 1 

, , { 2nd. White bread 

'^^ 1 3rd. Wine 

' or milk 

[ Dry vegetables 

^ I . ! or fresh vegetables 

j or potatoes 

Dinner | I or rice 

I (^ Cheese 

^2nd- or prunes 

( or preserve of pears and quincet 
^ / 1st. Meat broth for soup . 
crupper 1 2nd. Boiled meat 




Insane. 

100 grms. 
570 „ 
120 cc. 
500 „ 
200 „ 
220 „ 
220 grms. 
330 „ 
200 „ 

40 „ 
150 ec. 

60 grms. 
450 cc. 
140 grms. 



Seasoninrjs are not included in these weights in any case. 

Alimentation of Pregnant Women and Wet Nurses. — The 
regimen in the special Parisian hospitals for pregnant women 
and wet nurses may be, as always, specially modified by order 
of the doctor, but in ordinary cases it is thus constituted : — 



Regimen for Pregnant Women and Wet Nurses. 

a. For the ] White bread 720 

day /Wine 200 

b. Dejeuner Vegetable stock for soup 000 

'1st Moat stock for soup 000 

2nd Boiled meat 140 

Dinner < T Dry vegetables 360 

„ . I f)r fresh vegetables 440 

j or potatoes 660 

lor rice 350 

d. Supper Boiled meat with vegetables or condiments . . 120 



grms. 
cc. 



grms. 
cc. 



grms. 



Regimen of Young Children in Charitable Institutions. — To 
these regimens relating to adults, youths from 12 to 15 years 
old suffering from acute diseases, infirm people, convalescents, 
healthy people, pregnant women and wet nurses, we will add 
the alimentary regimen of young children in our almshouses. 



Regimen of Young Children from 2 to 6 Years. 

a For the (Bread for soup 100 grras. 

Lu -Whito broad 300 „ 

y (Wine — 

b. Dejeuner. Vogota))lo stock for soup 300 cc. 

f. n;«M/.r / ^'^^- **«"^<^ ?>toQ\s. for soup 300 „ 

c. umner ( 2nd. Boiled meat ,. • • 70 grins. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



d. Supper ■ 



120 cc. 



/Dry vegetables >: . 120 cc. 

J . I or fresh vegetables 140 „ 



lor potatoes 210 

lor rice 200 „ 

I Cheese 40 grms. 

2nd or prunes 12 cc. 

\ or preserve of pears or quinces .... 50 grmis . 



From six to twelve j-ears the regimen of boys and girls is 
increased by one-third compared with the preceding regimen. 

Summary relating to the Regimen of Hospital Inmates. — It being 
understood that the quantities indicated in the above tables are 
those of foods after preparation and not those of fresh foods, the 
weights of which are higher in the proportions indicated above 
(p. 315) it is evident that the alimentation of our hospitals 
furnishes the patient with an invigorating nourishment in a 
suitable and quite sufficient form. Indeed, if we calculate in 
fresh food and in corresponding fundamental nutritive principles, 
the average alimentation of an invalid or convalescent having 
four portions, who is in circumstances comparable to those 
of the adult not in hospital, we shall find that he receives per 
day :— 







Containing 


Foods. 


Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Wliite bread 
Fresh meat . 
Green vegetables 
Dry vegetables . 
Butter or oil 
Wine 


540 grms. 
420 „ 
170 „ 
126 „ 
30 „ 
480 cc. 


44-8 grms. 
88-2 „ 
2-4 „ 
28-22 „ 


5-9 grms. 
21-46 „ 

0-51 „ 

2-4 „ 
28 „ 

57-36 grms. 


275-4 grms. 

1-9 ., 

10-2 „ 

70-0 „ 

78 1 „ 


Total . . 


— 


163-62 grms. 


435-5 grms. 



We see (if the rations distributed to the patients are really 
those entered in the administrative books) how rich the alimenta- 
tion is in albuminoids as well as in ternary foods, the weight of 
which rises, as it should, to nearly four times that of the nitro- 
genous foods. The alimentation of 4 portions in our hospitals 
is capable of producing 2,900 Calories per day. The quantities 
of food disposed of by our patients and convalescents of 4 portions 
are then amply sufficient, the maintenance allowance of the 
healthy man only furnishing him on an average with 2,400 
Calories. 

To the preceding data, and in order that it may be possible to 
find here the practical indications necessary to calculate and if 
need be reproduce the alimentary regimen of our invalids, we 

1 Calculated in corresponding sugar. 



ALIMENTATION IN HOSPITALS 



will add the following determinations also borrowed from the 
work of the late Directeur de 1' Assistance publique in Paris : — 

Meat Broths for Invalids. 





I. Broth for 
Invalids with 
Modified Diet 
(without solid 
foods). 


II. Broth for 
Invalids with 1, 
2 and 3 portions. 


III. Another 
Formula. 


rBeef . . 60 kgs. 
Meat] Pork . . 36 „ 

I Liver or bone 4 „ 

Salt 

Green vegetables .... 
Dry burnt sugar .... 
Water 


100 kgs.l 

3-0 „ 
20 
0-150 „ 
240 litres 


100 kgs. 

3-5 „ 
36 
0-180,, 
300 litres 


100 kgs. 

3-6 „ 

27 
0-200 „ 
350 litres 



Reduce by simmering from a twelfth to a fourteenth. 
Vegetable Soups of the Parisian Hospitals. 





Soup of Dry 
Vegetables. 


Soup of Leeks 
and Potatoes. 


Julienne. 


Water 


100 litres 


100 litres 


100 litres 


Butter and fat . 
Salt .... 


2-75 kgs. 
1-20 „ 


2-75 kgs. 
1-20 „ 


3 kgs. 
1-20 „ 


Pepper . 

Dry vegetables . 

Fresh „ 
Leeks 


0-005 „ 
10 litres 

0-00 kgs. 
0-500 „ 
(onions) 


0-005 „ 
0-00 „ 

0-00 „ 
6.00 „ 


0-005 „ 
4 kgs. (car- 
rots, turnips, etc. ) 
4-00 kgs. 
0-00 „ 


Potatoes . 


0-00 „ 


12-00 „ 


4-00 „ 



To these data we will add, combined in the following table, 
the composition of the regimens of four portions or maximum 
regimens of a few French (not Parisian) hospitals, while limiting 
ourselves to giving here only the figures relating to the alimenta- 
tion of adult patients of the masculine sex. 

Regimen of 4 Portions of different French Hospitals. 



France 
Naval. 



Bread . 
Wine . 

Meat . 
Soup . 
Fresh vege^ 

tables. 
Dry do. . 
Milk . . 



750 gtns. 
230 cc. 

280 gms. 

937 cc. 

00 

'250 cc. 
00 



France 
Military. 



750 gms. 
250 cc. 

280 gms. 

100 cc. 

00 

260 cc. 
00 



Lyons. 



500 gms. 
400 cc. 

250 gms. 
300 cc. 
300 cc. 

300 cc, 
00 



Lille. 



310 gms. 
00 

130 gms. 
250 cc. 
250 cc. 

100 cc. 
200 cc. 



Rouen. 



480 gms. 
600 cc. 
(cider) 
180 gms. 
300 cc. 
240 cc. 

240 cc. 
00 



Dijon. 



Bordeaux . ' Marseilles. 



500 gms. '600 gms. 
500 cc. 400 cc. 

250 gms. 238 gms. 
500 cc. 550 cc. 
250 cc. 000 



150 cc. 
500 cc. 



000 
200 cc. 



450 gms. 
380 cc. 

150gins. 
400 CO. 
120 CC. 

I 750 cc. 
I 12.'^ cc. 



1 In the case of patients on low diet the broth i.s made of meat without 
internal organs, and not including bone. 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

We see the great difference wliich exists between the regimens 
of the hospitals in the various parts of the country, as bread, 
meat, wine, milk, etc. 

It is almost useless to again repeat that, in every case, the 
doctor may modify or increase by special prescriptions his 
patient's alimentation by means of an entry in his visiting book.* 

Let us see by way of comparison how the feeding of invalids 
is managed in foreign hospitals. 

At the Charity Hospital in Berlin, there are five kinds of 
regimens. We borrow details from Ewald {Die naturwissen- 
schafUichen und medicin. SlaatsansUdten, Berlin, 1886, p. 354). 

1 The French physicians, and especially the Societe medicale des hopUaux 
de Paris, have formulated some objections to the regulation of the regimen 
of sick persons called after Husson which we have just set forth. Tliey 
object that the second and third degrees complicate their prescriptions and 
are never, so to say, used in practice ; that boiled meats and meat soup 
predominate too much in the alimentation of invalids thus imderstood ; 
that partial or entire milk diet is only exceptionally provided and remains 
insufficient ; that the same applies to eggs which are only digested with 
difficulty ; and that on the contrary wine appears to be granted too abund- 
antly. Their chief objection is that, in this regulation, the degrees of 
alimentation are founded rather on the quantities of foods than on their 
natiu-e ; that it is advisable, however, in regulating the hospital rations of 
the patients to let the foods play a large part. Consequently, through the 
agency of their Secretary, M. A. Chauffard, the doctors of the Parisian 
hospitals propose to provide and inscribe in the visiting books the following 
seven special alimentary regimens : 

A. Mixed or normal diet. For healthy subjects, hospital servants or 
crippled inmates, tabetics at the beginning, secondary syphilitic persons, 
mad people, etc. B. Diet of convalescents. C. Diet of superf ceding. D 
Diet of diabetics. E. Diet of dyspeptics. F. Milk-vegetarian diet. G. Whole 
milk diet. 

Here is the composition of each of these seven kinds of diet : — 

A. JIixED OR Normal Diet. — Meal before the doctor^s visit. — Soup with 
milk or vegetables, 300 cc. or cafe au lait, 300 cc. Morninxf meal. — Roast 
meat, 100 grms. or minced internal organs, lOO grms. Dry vegetables, 
150 grms., vegetables in season, 130 grms. with the addition of 1 egg. 
Evening meal. — Meat or \'egetable soup, 300 cc. Fish, 160 grms. or roast 
meat (or boiled meat dressed), 100 grms. Potatoes, 240 grms. Fresh 
vegetables, 160 grms., or rice in meat soup or in milk, 200 cc. or paste. 
Bread at discretion. Wine : men, 300 cc. ; women, 250 cc. (or milk, 1 
litre) ; or beer or cider 1 litre. 

B. Diet of Convalescents. — Meal before the doctor^s visit. — Milk or 
cafe au lait, or milk porridge or broth, 300 cc. Morning m,c(d. — Cutlet, or 
one-sixth of roast chicken. Puree of potatoes or dry vegetables, 150 cc. 
Evening meal. — Milk soup or broth, 300 cc. Lean fish, 160 grms. or 2 
eggs or brains. Cooked fruits or a compote, rice milk. Milk, 1 litre, 
wine, 200 cc. Bread at discretion. 

C. Diet of Dyspeptics. — Meal before the doctor' s visit. — Soup with milk, 
300 cc. Morning meal. — Roast meat, pounded or not, 100 grms. Piu-^e 
of green vegetables or feculents, 150 grms., or alimentary pastes, 120 grms., 
or 2 eggs. Evening meal. — Tiie same composition with the addition 
of 300 cc. of milk soup or vegetable soup. Milk IJ litres. 

D. Milk-Vegetarian Diet. — Two litres of niilk, 4 eggs, 2 milk 

520 



ALIMENTATION IN HOSPITALS 

Regimens I and II which follow, apply to fever patients ; 
regimens III, IV and V are for non-fever patients and con- 
valescents : — 

Regimen of Fever Patients (Chabitv Hospital of Berlin) 



II. 



Morning. Cafe au lait 
Midday. Broth .... 
Afternoon. Cafe au lait 
Evening. Flour or milk soup . 
Besides for] 



the day /White bread 



500 cc. 

250 „ 

500 „ 

250 „ 

80 grms. 



500 cc. 
500 „ 
500 „ 
500 „ 

250 grms. 



Regimen of Non-fever Patients 


(Charity Hospital of 


Berlin) 




III. 


IV, 


V. 


Morning. Cafe au lait .... 

(Broth 

Midday ■ Cooked vegetables 

'Meat 

Afternoon. Cafe au lait .... 

Evenifig. Soup 

Besides for \„j... . , 
th" day / ** hite or coarse broad . 


500 cc. 
500 „ 
500 cc. 
167 grms. 
500 cc. 
500 „ 

250 grms. 


500 cc. 

0-00 cc. 
500 cc. 
167 grms. 
500 cc. 
500 „ 

375 grms.i 


500 cc. 

0-00 cc. 
1000 cc. 

1 67 gi-ms. 

500 cc. 
1000 „ 

500 grms. 1 



soups. — The two eggs may be replaced by 100 cc. of cooked green veget- 
ables, or 150 cc. of purees of feculents, or 120 grins, of alimentary pastes. 

E. Whole Milk Diet. — Men, 3i litres of milk. — Women, 3 litres. 

F. Diet of Superfeeding. — It would comprise one of the above funda- 
mental regimens with a supplement consisting of 2 eggs, or sardines in 
oil, or 100 to 150 grms. of raw pulped meat, or cheese and butter. 

G. Diet of Diabetics. — Kind of food appropriate to this condition, but 
the quantity varying essentially in each case. 

Whatever be the diet adopted, the doctor will keeiJ the power of resort- 
ing, by moans of the special vouchers signed by him, to such a modification 
or special supplement as appears to him useful. 

For children, on the Report of Dr. Sevestre, the Commission has re- 
quested per day : — 

A. For Infants at the Breast. — Sterihzed natural milk, 1 litre. 

B. Weaned Infants. — 1| litres of milk ; 50 grms. of flour for pap ; 25 
grms. of sugar ; 1 egg. 

C. Small Children. — J litre of milk. — In the morning — Milk sou]>, 
vegetable soup, or chocolate twice a week. 2 eggs, or fish, chicken, roast 
meat, 80 grms. Puree of vegetables 80 grms., or potatoes, or green veget- 
ables, 100 grms. — Compote of fruit, 50 grms. Dinner. — Meat or vegetable 
soup, 250 cc. Vegetables, paste or creams, 60 to 80 grms. Stewed fruits 
or preserves, 50 grms. 

D. Children above 8 Years Old. — Milk J Hire or wine and water, 750 
cc. Bread at discretion. In the morning. — Milk soup or \egetablo soup. 
Cafe au lait or chocolate (twice a week), 250 cc. Dejeuner. — 1st. Roast 
meat, 80 grms. or stew or fish, 100 grms. 2nd. Dry vegetables (or rice or 

521 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



x\t the Moabite Hospital, Berlin, there are four degrees of 
alimentation. 

The first and most substantial is that of the inferior staff and 
convalescents. They have at midday a plate of meat with 
vegetables, in the evening eggs, herrings, sausages ; in all 40 to 
45 grms. of albuminoids corresponding to 200 or 220 grms. of 
fresh meat. They also receive : — 

Rye bread .... 250 grms. 1 Butter 50 grms. 

Wheat bread ... 150 „ | Beer 330 cc. 

In alimentation of the 2nd degree, soups predominate : in 
the evening only 200 grms. of bread are given, generally wheaten 
bread ; meat and indigestible vegetables are set aside. The 
3rd degree is composed chiefly of meat broths with rice, vermi- 
celli, egg, etc. For the 4th degree, the least substantial, the 
patient is kept almost entirely on milk and milk soups, the 
doctor adding in each case what he considers necessary. 

The calculated quantities of albumin and ternary matters 
corresponding to these four degrees are the following : — 



1st degree . 
2nd degree ^ 
3rd degree i 
4th degree . 



Albumin. 


Fats. 


83 

70 


85 
80 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Alcohol. 



340 
300 



10 



Correspond- 
ing Calories. 



2,600 

2,260 

800 

600 



At the Hospital of Halle (Prussian Saxony) the alimentation of 
sick persons admits likewise of four degrees. The richest provides 
them with 103 grms. of albuminoids, 96 of fats and 314 of carbo- 
hydrates per day. It corresponds to 2,600 Calories. 

Tlie average composition of the four kinds of allowances at 
the Bavarian military hospitals, includes (all calculations made) 
the following quantities of alimentary principles ^ : — 





! 1st Ration. 


2nd Ration. 


3rd Ration. 


4th Ration. 


Albumin . . . . 

Fat 

Carbo-hydrates . 


.110 grms. 

42 „ 
. 370 „ 


90 grms. 
40 „ 
340 „ 


70 grms. 
45 „ 
230 „ 


20 grms. 
19 „ 

21 „ 



paste), 100 grms., or potatoes or seasonable vegetables, 120 grms. Cheese 
(Gruyere) ; stewed fruit. Dinner. — Meat or vegetable soup, 250 cc, 2 
eggs or 80 grms. of fish, or 60 grms. of meat. Vegetables as in the morning. 

E. Milk Diet. Milk 2 litres. 

F. Diet for Convalescent Children. — Regimen B. or regimen C. with 
the addition of 00 grms. of meat or fowl. 

G. Diet of Stjperfeeding. — Regimon C. or D. with the addition of 100 
to 150 grms. of raw meat. — (Extract from tlio Annales d'hygiene publique 
et de medecine legale, Sept. 1902.) 

1 Not including the optional additions of the doctor. 

522 



ALIMENTATION IN PRISONS 

The highest ration is well conceived, a little weak perhaps for 
convalescents. It only furnishes young and vigorous men with 
2,300 Calories, whilst the adult who has no need to repair the 
losses of his tissues uses, when at rest, from 2,200 to 2,400 
Calories. 

It is easy to see that French patients, and particularly patients 

in the Paris hospitals, are better fed than German patients to-day, 

• especially when, owing to the efforts of the doctors and the 

Administration, a little more variety and choice of foods is 

introduced into the hospital regimen. 

Alimentation in the Prisons. 

It is obvious that the prisoner does not deserve luxury, but only 
maintenance ; still the convict should be placed in normal 
hygienic conditions and sufficiently fed. From the point of 
view of justice and humanity, no one would be able to claim the 
right of adding to the just punishment administered by the law, 
a fresh punishment arising from an alimentation inadequate to 
maintain his strength, which under the too often deplorable 
conditions in which the prisoner is obliged to live, soon cause 
his health to alter and very quickly make him an invalid 
expensive to the Administration by reason of the care which 
would be more than ever necessary to him. 

Since we owe the prisoner a sufficient nourishment for 
maintenance, it will suffice to turn back to the facts given, 
p. 82, and seq., in order to note that an adult placed in 
the conditions of a man at relative rest (as is the case of the 
prisoner if he does not work) requires at least 80 grms. of albu- 
minoids, 40 grms. of fat bodies and 400 grms. of starchy 
matters. This ration furnishes him with 2,150 theoretical 
Calories, in reality scarcely 1,950 Calories. If he works, and 
especially if he is bound down to fatiguing work, the prisoner 
should be fed like an ordinary workman with a minimum of 
135 grms. of albuminoids and 500 to 700 grms. of ternary matters. 
To force work from a man, even a prisoner, without feeding 
him sufficiently, is a grave fault from the moral and social, and 
a grievous error from the economic and physiological standpoint. 
The prisoner should pay the penalty by loss of liberty, not by 
that of his health or life, which happens only too often under 
the irrational system in force, as statistics prove. 

As a matter of fact, food of the best quality is never given to 
prisoners, and their foods are estimated in the raw state ; now 
in these meats, vegetables, bread of the second and even third 
class, the waste products are consideral)le ; the vegetable food 
which predominates in prison diet su])])orts the stomach less, 
as we have seen, and produces less force than animal foods. 
Besides the diet varies very little ; so that for all these reasons, 

523 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



the quantities of principles mentioned above should be considered 
far below the real needs. 

The administrative regimen of the prisons in France, cal- 
culated for the average day, is the following : — 





Quantities in the 
Fresh SUte. 


Containing : 




Albumin. 


Fats. 


Carbo-hydrates. 


Bread 

Fresh vegetables 

Potatoes . 


820 grms. 
70 „ 
110 „ 


68-0 grms. 
1-8 „ 
1-8 „ 


8-2 grms. 
0-2 „ 


311 grms. 

4 „ 

20 „ 


Meat . . . 


38 „ 


7-6 „ 


2-0 „ 


— 


Rice .... 


19 „ 


0-5 „ 


— 


7-2 „ 


Dry vegetables . 
Onions 


60 „ 
10 „ 


141 „ 


1-2 „ 


31 „ 
1 » 


Fats .... 


12 „ 


„ 


11 


» 




93-8 grms. 


22-6 grms. 


374-2 grms. 



This regimen, too poor in meat, would contain the necessary 
quantity of albuminoids if it were furnished by foods of good 
quality, if it were more animalized, if it did not offend by the 
nature of its nitrogenous principles which are nearly all taken 
from bread, finally if it were not too deficient in fat bodies. It 
only corresponds theoretically to 2,074 Calories, of which hardly 
1,750 Calories can be realized, an amount of energy which is 
not sufficient for the man who does not work, and d fortiori if 
he has to work. Indeed, the theoretic calculation of these 
Calories should be reduced by at least one-fifth if account is taken 
of the coefficients of digestibility of the herbaceous foods (of 
which prisoners' diet is chiefly composed) in comparison with 
the foods of animal origin as well as of the waste which is con- 
siderable for a diet which is cliiefly vegetable and of second 
quality. 

In England, military prisoners condemned to more than two 
months, receive per day 283 grms. of oatmeal, 340 grms. of rice, 
226 grms. of bread, 678 grms. of milk. If they are doing fatiguing 
work, they have three times a week 266 grms. of oatmeal, 900 
grms. of potatoes, 226 grms. of meat, 450 grms. of milk and 
220 cc. of beer. These regimens are all far better understood 
than ours. 

In Prussia, in prisons under the jurisdiction of the Minister 
of Justice, prisoners are given on an average per day : 650 grms. 
of bread, 43 grms. of meat, 25 grms. of fat. This is an altogether 
insufficient regimen. 

In the Belgian prisons, the prisoners dispose on an average 
per day of 625 grms. of bread, 12 grms. of fat and 57 grms. 

524 



ALIMENTATION OF PRISONERS 

of meat. They receive besides, in the morning, cafe au lait with 
chicory ; at midday and in the evening a pap of potatoes, vege- 
tables and meat, four times a week. This last is included here 
per average day. 

Usually these unfortunate people, weak, dyspeptic and anae- 
mic, whose nourishment is unvarying in its monotony, end by 
loathing their food and by enduring hunger rather than partake 
of dishes which are repulsive to them. It would be logical, it 
would be humane and in conformity with interest properly under- 
stood, to make a little variety in their alimentation were it only 
that it might be better utilized by them. Vegetables, cheese, 
wine, beer, cheap condiments (salt, pepper and mustard) should 
take a place in their menu. This would result in less hospital 
expenses, and so many complaints the less against a regimen 
which seems contrived to ruin the health of even the strongest. 

Well baked bread of good quality, dry vegetables seasoned 
with salt, pepper and fat ; a little supplementary meat, common 
but very nourishing herbaceous vegetables such as cabbage, 
potatoes, carrots, turnips ; cheese, (a pate cuite), salt fish (cod, 
herrings), milk, etc., added to the food of prisoners and in the 
small proportions that we have mentioned, would allow of intro- 
ducing into their regimen a little of the variety which preserves 
the appetite, of giving them more strength to work with, more 
resistance in the shape of health, whilst reducing their inner 
feelings of revolt and their ill-will as well as the expenses of super- 
vision and those of the hospital. 

It is sad to state that these desiderata have already been 
frequently named by prison doctors, by the estimable persons 
who interest themselves in the moral and material lot of these 
unhappy creatures, by the Press and the Administration itself. 

From the point of view of hygiene, of the good keeping of the 
prisons, remarkable progress has been made. A deaf ear has been 
turned to all demands which concern alimentation. Supple- 
mentary expense is feared. It is also thought, perhaps, better to 
conquer the often difficult character of the prisoner by a lowering 
nourishment. However, one cannot allow these unhappy con- 
victs to die because they have not the chance of complaining ! 



525 



XLIX 

ALIMENTATION BY ARTIFICIAL METHODS — BY THE STOMACH TUBE — 
NUTRITIVE IN JECTIONS-ALIMENTARY HYPODERMIC INJECTIONS, ETC. 

THERE are cases where a man cannot or will not feed liini- 
self in the ordinary way, whether from ulceration, stric- 
ture of the oesophagus or of the vocal cords, as in laryngeal tuber- 
culosis for example ; or because haemorrhage or gastric ulcer is 
threatened ; or because the patient suffers from vomiting which 
cannot be checked, or because he absolutely refuses to be fed, as 
some madmen do ; or because he no longer knows how to eat or 
can no longer swallow ; or finally because the patient has under- 
gone one of the intestinal operations which demand absolute 
rest of the alimentary canal. 

According to the case, the patient must then be fed bj' the 
oesophageal tube or by a stomachic fistula, or by the rectum, by 
the method of hypodermic injections, or by direct injection of 
certain nutritive substances into the blood. 

Alimentation by the Feeding Tube. — Its use is indicated amongst 
mad people who refuse all nourishment ; among invaUds stricken 
by paralysis of the muscles which control deglutition ; finally 
in certain affections of the tongue, of the pharynx or of the 
oesophagus which render deglutition very painful or impossible. 

In these cases, a soft tube is used and introduced by the mouth, 
or by the nasal passages, when it is impossible to do otherwise. 
Foods are, by means of this instrument, poured directly into the 
stomach which has generally twice in the twenty-four hours previ- 
ously been washed out. Yolk of egg may be thus introduced, milk, 
clear paps, broth, meat juice, solutions of peptons, egg and milk, 
fatty emulsions, sweetened syrups, wine and beer in small 
quantity. 

The stomach easily supports 500 to 600 cc. at first, then a litre 
of these nutritive liquids. 

When there is ulceration of the larynx or of the throat, very 
marked spasm or stricture of the oesophagus, it is necessary to 
introduce the tube with great caution, and if needed to slightly 
cocaine the painful parts beforehand. Generally, with these 
patients, rest in bed is necessary. 

Insalivation of the matters thus introduced, even when they 
are rich in starch, seems superfluous. 

526 



ALIMENTATION BY ARTIFICIAL METHODS 

Alimentation by Stomachic Fistula. — It finds its use among 
individuals who, in consequence of wounds with cicatrization of 
the oesophagus, are absolutely incapable of receiving food by 
the mouth even by means of the oesophageal probe. 

The use of the stomachic fistula is more delicate if it is a 
question of cancer of the oesophagus and of the cardiac portion 
of the stomach. 

The feeding is effected by the same substances as in the 
preceding case. 

Alimentation by the Rectum. — In cases where it is necessary to 
spare the stomach, whether because this organ absolutely refuses 
all nourishment, or because it is impossible to cause food to 
reach it, or because there is gastric haemorrhage, ulcer, etc., and 
it is necessary to leave this organ entirely at rest, food must 
be given by the rectum. But this mode of feeding cannot be 
indefinitely prolonged. Nevertheless I have been able, in a case 
of ulceration of the stomach of a gouty person, to feed him for 
twenty-two days by the rectum. The patient maintained his 
strength and liis stoutness the whole time. Invalids treated 
thus iiave been said to remain in good condition for two 
months or more. 

Clinical observation shows then that patients can be nourished 
by this indirect means. 

The analyses of Ewald made on subjects in nitrogenous equili- 
brium, have shown that it is possible, by means of nutritive well 
combined injections, to preserve this equilibrium for some 
weeks, and that it is possible to feed quite sufficiently in this 
way while giving the stomach complete repose. ^ Before Ewald, 
Voit and Bauer 2 had established the fact that peptons, juices of 
meat, and alkaline albuminates are absorbed by the walls of the 
rectum, and the cooked fecula is itself transformed into sugar 
which is afterwards reabsorbed. Propeptons, casein of milk, 
globulins, the albumin of egg when it is slightly salted or mixed 
with pepsin (Catillon), disappear fairly quickly^ ; but albuminous 
matters peptonized by pancreatine, especially when they are 
well prepared and without bitterness, are preferable. Kohlen- 
berger has shown that even undigested soluble albumins are 
directly absorbed by the walls of the rectum. Boas has made a 
similar demonstration for carbo-hydrates when they have been 
cooked and diluted in water. 

In its turn, the absorption of fatty emulsions in man and animals 
has been established by Czerny and Lats^chenberger and by Eich- 
horst. I have observed that wine (Bordeaux, port) is very rapidly 
absorbed by the rectal walls. 

1 Ewald, Zeitsch. f. klin., Med., Bd. XII. 

2 Zeitschr. f. Biolog., Bd. V. 

^ Arnim Huler, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. LXVII. 

527 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



One should, about an liour before the nutritive injection, give 
tlie patient an ordinary one, for purposas of cleanliness, with 8 
grms. of salt per litre, so as to empty the rectum. 

In order to take care that the nutritive solution enters, it is 
desirable to employ a long soft tube which is able to pass very high 
into the large intestine. Four or five nutritive injections may 
be given in the day once every three hours. Their volume may be 
200 to 300 cc. according to the power of endurance of the rectum 
which in the end supports them very well, especially if some drops 
of laudanum are added at the commencement of the treatment. 
With the injections for purposes of cleanhness, which in them- 
selves help to cause the water to be absorbed by the intestinal 
walls, it can be seen that an invalid may absorb even up to 2 litres 
of liquid daily. 

We may employ as a fundamental nutritive liquid, a solu- 
tion of a tenth to a fifteenth of pancreatic or pepsic pep- 
tons. We may also make an emulsion with the yolk of two 
eggs, or if necessary two whole eggs,^ to which is added little 
by little, blending it by whipping, a solution of glucose and cane 
sugar in 8 parts of water,^ a spoonful of flour, a spoonful of wine 
and 2 grms. of salt, the whole at 36°. If required a little tepid, 
milk may replace the glucose and the flour. I think that oily 
emulsions (facilitated by the addition of yolk of egg) are not so 
well absorbed as the starch of flour which plays the same role. 

Maragliano has given the following formula for nutritive 
injections : — 



Muscles of beef pulped by scraping with a knife 
Fresh ox pancreas minced .... 
After having mixed, add: 

Ox gall 

A litre of water containing : bicarbonate of soda 



300 grms. 
150 „ 

25 grms. 



It should be left for two hours at the temperature of the room 
and injected in four or five times. 

Milk mixed with 150 grms. of bicarbonate of soda per litre is 
very well borne by the intestine, but in this case, above all, it is 
necessary that the cleansing mjection which precedes, should be 
very scrupulously administered and even made antiseptic (03 
grm. of benzonaphtol) otherwise the colibacillus would coagulate 
the casein which would no longer be absorbed save with 
difficultJ^ 

1 Whipped and peptonized eggs (in presence of \'a milligrms. of HCl), 
or better pancreatinized , are absorbed more easilj'^ than eggs simply emul- 
sioned(Catillon, Huber). If the white of the egg is not tolerated, only the 
yolks of three or four, which are carefully emulsioned, may be used. 

2 Very concentrated glucose irritates the rectum and afterwards makes 
alimentation more difficult. It is better to replace a little sugar by the 
flour of wheat or rice or by a little dextrin. 

528 



ARTIFICIAL ALIMENTATION 

The patient who is fed by means of injections ought to remain 
quietly in bed and well covered up, to avoid as much as possible 
rectal intolerance and the alimentary needs which are increased by 
the losses of heat and the reflexes due to cold. The liquid sub- 
stances injected ought to have a temperature of 37° to 38°. 

Among stout women suffering from stomachic intolerance, 
two injections a day, each of 600 grms. of water and 4 grms. of 
salt, or 400 grms. of water and 200 grms. of soup given at 38° 
after a cleansing injection, allow of the preservation of strength 
for a long time and often of the calming of the stomach, which 
may then support dishes of easy digestion, such as raw meat or 
grated ham swallowed without chewing. 

Nutritive injections well composed and well administered allow 
of invalids being fed for a long time by the rectum ; but they 
must not be depended on too much if it is a case of children, 
nervous people, or those with whom a tumour or a stricture of the 
oesophagus prevents all natural alimentation. 

Alimentation by subcutaneous Injections. — It seemed natural 
to try to feed invalids by hypodermic injections ; but that 
method is far from having maintained what it appeared to 
promise. It was known to be impossible to get albuminoid 
matters absorbed with any utility in this way. Either the matters 
thus introduced provoke local troubles, indurations, abscesses, or 
they are only very partially absorbed ; or, after having pene- 
trated into the blood, they pass just as they are, into the urine. 
Albumin, different peptons, alkaline albuminates, propeptons, 
etc. — nothing has succeeded. Thus we only succeed in con- 
siderably irritating the kidneys and provoking albuminuria. 

We have already seen that before feeding the tissues, the 
albuminoids must pass, by traversing the alimentary canal and 
the lymphatic ganglions of the intestine, through a series of 
transformations and decompositions which allow of their final 
assimilation. It is these divisions which, in the case of hypo- 
dermic injections, are lacking in the albuminous matter injected 
under the skin, and this indispensable condition is sufficient to 
hinder tlie utilization of the greater number of alimentary 
principles. 

Glucose in solution to 60 or 80 grms. per litre, with the addition 
of 5 to 6 grms. of salt, is well absorbed by the subcutaneous 
method. But we cannot thus inject sufficient quantities. 

Subcutaneous injections of fats or of olive oil repeated two 
or three times a day, at the rate of 20 to 30 grms. each time, are 
well utilized by the system (Leube). The injections should be 
given slowly. Fatty bodies may even be used as vehicles or 
medicinal products, of creosote for example (Burlureaux), but 
we cannot feed very effectively thus. The fatty bodies to be 
injected should have been previously sterilized. 

529 M M 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

Alimentation by intra-venal Injections. — In very serious cases 
one is sometimes tempted to sustain the invalid by intra-venai 
injections eitlier with defibrinated blood, or with natural serum, 
or with artificial serum. Blood may be injected from vein to vein, 
but it should be taken from an animal of the same kind, which 
renders this method amongst men almost inapplicable. Natural 
serum should be sterilized ; it is not without its inconveniences, nor 
even Avithout danger. Artificial serum is better. It is prepared 
by dissolving 7 grms. of salt, 1 grm. of phosphate of soda and 05 
grm. of phosphate of potash per litre of water, raising to boiling 
point. We may also content ourselves with dissolving 8 grms. 
of salt in a litre of water which is afterwards sterilized by boiling, 
and left to cool sheltered from the dust of the air. 

The injection by the subcutaneous method of this artificial 
serum to the amount of 500 to 1,000 cc. and more in the twenty- 
four hours, constitutes one of the most powerful means which the 
medical man has within reach for rapidly repairing the strength 
of invalids and bringing back normal functional activity. 



530 



METHODS ENABLESTG US TO EXAMINE THE EFFECTS ON THE SYSTEM 
OF ALIMENTARY REGIMENS AND MEDICAL AGENTS 



7 



■^HE individual, whether in good health or ailing, who under- 
goes such or such a mode of alimentation or treatment, is in- 
fluenced by it for good or evil, and it is of much importance to be 
able to follow, so to say, day by day the effects of the regimen or 
medical treatment which has been instituted. 

Method of Clinical Observation. — To this end the medical man 
can have recourse to a purely clinical examination of the invalid, 
a method which consists in taking account of the characteristic 
signs of the state of different functions, the appetite, digestion, 
excretions, pulse, rhythm of the heart, vascular tension, tempera- 
ture, respiration, variations of sensation, muscular power, the 
general aspect of the patient, etc. 

Although full of interest and providing the most valuable 
indications, this method of observation, the old clinical medical 
method, gives above all general impressions, sometimes also 
precise indications, but indications which do not always give an 
exact, detailed and daily appreciation of the progress of the in- 
valid or of his return to health, still less of the losses or gains made 
by each of the principal organs or tissues. The clinical method 
is only able to indicate in a general way the sense in which such 
or such part of any regimen should be modified. 

Nevertheless, everything which can be measured exactly can 
be translated into curves, the component parts of which one can 
deduce and the significance of which is one of the most important in 
medicine. It is thus that the state of the forces gauged by the 
dynamometer, the number of the beats of the heart and pulse, 
the rh3rthm of the respiratory movements, the degree of arterial 
tension, that of the temperature, the counting of the red or white 
corpuscles of the blood, the volume or colour of the urine, all these 
data are valuable for estimating the effect of a regimen, or even 
of a medical agent, because together, sometimes even separately, 
they bring clear and definite indications. The continued lower- 
ing of the temperature in the case of a feverish, typhoid or tuber- 
culous patient, etc., if it is produced apart from any other inter- 
vention than the change of regimen, shows the good effects of it ; 

531 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

the elevation or arrest in the increase of the number of the red 
corpuscles of the blood in anaemia or convalescence according as 
he has recourse to such or such remedy or alimentation, may be 
sufficient to guide the medical man in the choice of his therapeutic 
or nutritive agents. 

There is another sign which also gives precise indications of 
the value of the alimentary regimen adopted — the variation in 
the weight of the subject. The weighing of invalids is adopted, 
we think, far too rarely. It is scarcely practised, save in tuber- 
culous cases or in chronic ailments. It would, however, be easy 
to weigh ordinary invalids, placed in an old armchair on the Ro- 
berval balance which can give the weight of a man to almost 30 or 
40 grms. This weight taken each day. or alternate days, would 
give us a serious check over the effects of the regimen followed, 
the efficacy of such or such a course of treatment, and the general 
state of the patient. Nevertheless, weight itself, like the other 
general signs, only gives us a summary indication ; it does not 
indicate which organ may have gained or lost in subst<ance, nor 
what tissues or what kind of principles^nitrogenous, fatty, etc. 
— have accumulated in the organs or have disappeared. Besides, 
fairly important modifications may come without weight giving 
any clue to them ; for example, a loss of muscular tissue com- 
pensated by an almost equal gain of fats or water. 

Formerly the medical man concerned himseK with the appear- 
ance of the urine and excretory matters ; he knew how to 
draw from these more or less precise conclusions as regards 
regimen and treatment. This examination can indeed furnish 
some summary information*' on the digestibility or indigestibihty 
of such or such alimentary matter, or relatively to its in- 
fluence on the urinary secretion, but to-day it is no longer by 
simply taking into account the superficial aspect of the excretions, 
but rather by examining their total composition, taking tlieir 
volume and weight and comparing them with the normal com- 
position, weight, etc. ; it is above all by striking the detailed and 
complete balance of the whole of the excretions and of the aliments 
introduced, that the modern biological chemist and physiologist 
are able to follow day by day, and almost organ by organ, the 
effect of a method of treatment or of a regimen. 

We are now able not only to determine exactly the influence 
which such and such a regimen has on the general health, but to 
mark the effects in detail and following the feeding adopted, to 
state precisely the daily gain or loss of the system in muscular 
matter, in fats, in water, in salts, etc. 

To obtain these precise indications, different methods are 
employed which we shall now explain. 

Method Founded on the Complete Determination of the Nutritive 
Balance. — The method which enables us to establish, at any 

532 



ESTABLISHMENT OF NUTRITION BALANCE-SHEET 

moment, the state of nutrition by the complete nutritive balance 
corresponding to a fixed regimen, is based on the following 
considerations : 

It has been established first, in particular by the experiments of 
J. B. Boussingault, then of V. Regnault and Reiset, and later of 
Bidder and Schmidt and of Voit, etc., that almost the whole of the 
alimentary nitrogen is found again in the urine, faecal matters and 
tiie products of desquamation. Further, the loss by the epiderm' ^ 
and hair only represents daily in man OS grm. to 04 grms. of 
nitrogen out of 16 to 18 grms. of total nitrogen eliminated. As 
to the exhalation of nitrogen, whether in a natural state or in the 
state of volatile nitrogenous products, more or less complex by the 
skin and the lungs, it is almost nil, as the preceding authors, and 
later Ranke, Pettenkoffer and Voit, etc., have established.^ 

If then the quantity of nitrogen which exists in the total sum of 
the foods of a subject experimented on is determined, and if, 
on the other hand, by collecting the whole of his excretions, the 
total nitrogen is measured, the difference in excess or deficit will 
give the nitrogen retained or lost by his tissues during the period 
which we are considering. But as a very large part of this nitrogen 
exists in animals and man in the state of albuminoid principles, 
and as these substances contain on an average 16 per cent, of 
this element, it follows that for each gramme of nitrogen vanished 
from the total of the excretions compared with that which the 
foods have introduced in the same time, the system has benefited 
by V'fv' grms. or 6 25 grms. of albumin ; and on the other hand, it 
will have lost this quantity by each gramme of nitrogen present 
in the excretions above that which the foods have introduced in 
the same time. 

Reckoning that the muscles form by far the most important 
albuminoid tissue in the animal, it is possible, as Voit did, to 
calculate the nitrogen gained or lost no longer in dry albumin, 
but in fresh muscular flesh. Now, as this contains for 100 parts 
3-35 of nitrogen on an average, it will suffice to multiply the 
figure representing the loss or gain of nitrogen observed in an 
animal or a patient under experiment by the coefficient 299 (or 
30 in round numbers), to obtain relatively to the period of time 
which we are considering, the gain or loss in muscular flesh of the 
subject under observation. 

As to the quantity of alimentary albumin absorbed, it is equal 
to the weight of total nitrogen of the foods, minus that which is 
found again in the intestinal excrements, the difference being 
multiplied by the coefficient 6 25 above. Generally for 18 grms. 
of alimentary nitrogen, the excrements contain daily 14 grms. 

1 A man eliminates, it is true, per day 4"o to 5 litres of nitrogen by the 
skin and the lungs, but the nitrogen is partly of atmospheric origin and not 
alimentary. 

533 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

of nitrogen. But it must be understood that this relation 
may be very variable according to the method of alimentation 
and the state of liealth of the individuals. 

The carbon of the organism being eliminated in the state of 
carbonic acid by the lungs and skin, and under the form of very 
varied organic matters by the urine and faecal matters, if by the 
methods of Reiset, Pettenkoifer and Voit, of Richet and Hanriot, 
of Atwater, etc., the quantity of carbonic acid CO^ expired or per- 
spired is determined in grammes, and if this quantity is multiplied 
by 0273 (the coefficient of proportional change in weight from 
CO^ into corresponding C) we shall get the carbon lost by the 
lungs and skin in the space of time during wliich the subject has 
been under observation. If to this carbon be added that which 
has been excreted during the period by the urine and feeces 
(it is known by an elementary analysis of the urinary residue and 
of the faecal matters) the total of the carbon lost in the course of 
the observation will be obtained. By deducting this weight from 
that of the carbon furnished by the foods, we shall have as the 
difference, the weight of the total carbon fixed or lost by the patient 
during this period. On the other hand if, as we stated above, the 
nitrogen lost or gained by the subject in the same time has been 
measured, it will be easy to infer from it the carbon assimilated 
in the state of proteid substances, because nearly the whole of 
the fixed nitrogen is under this latter form, and we know that these 
substances contain for 16 grms. of nitrogen, 54grms. of carbon. 
If then we multiply the gain or loss of nitrogen by jl, that is 
to say by the coefficient 3 4, we get the carbon fixed under the form 
of albuminoids. Thus calculated, this carbon subtracted from the 
loss or gain of total carbon, will give as the difference that which has 
been lost or gained under any other form than that of proteid 
bodies. Let us suppose for the sake of clearness that we may 
represent this weight of non-albuminoid carbon by p. 

Let us observe now that the animal only stores appreciably in 
his tissues as organic materials, muscle or fat (glycogen and other 
ternary substances only existing in it in very small proportions). 
We may then say that the excess of carbon p, that is to say that 
which does not correspond to the albuminoid matters gained or 
lost in the time considered, is the carbon which corresponds to the 
fats ; to those which are formed if this weight p is positive, or 
destroyed if it is negative. And as these fats contain on an average 
765 per cent, of carbon, it follows that we shall have the weight 
P of the assimilated or dissimilated fats by multiplying p by 
ijLii or by the coefficient ISIO. 

In order to apply what has just been said, let us take some ex- 
amples : First the case where the nitrogen of the foods for twenty- 
four hours exceeded, for example, the nitrogen excreted by 3 
grms. per day, and where, in the same time the carbon expired or 

534 



ESTABLISHMENT OF NUTRITION BALANCE-SHEET 

rejected by the excretions of every kind was less by 22 grms. than 
the aUmentary carbon. The system has then stored up in this 
time 3 grms. x 625 = 18-75 grms. of albuminoid matters. The 
carbon which corresponds to these 18-75 grms. of these matters 
is equal to 3 grms. x 3-4 = 10-2 grms. There has then been in 
this same time 22 grms. — 10-2^ grms. = 11-8 grms. of carbon fixed 
by the system under the form of fats, which corresponds to 118 
grms. X 131 = 15-45 grms. of fat bodies. We shall conclude then 
that during the period considered, there was : gain in albuminoids 
= 18-75 grms ; or calculated in muscular tissue, 3 grms. x 29-9 
= 89-70 grms. Simultaneously, the gain in fats was 1545 
grms. 

There may, on the contrary, be the very different case, where 
an excess of 3 grms. of nitrogen is found in the excretions of the 
subject under observation in comparison with the nitrogen of the 
daily total of foods, and let us suppose also that there have been 
22 grms. of carbon less in the excretions than in the whole of the 
foods consumed. In this second case 3 grms. x 625= 1875 grms. 
of albuminoid matters have been lost, but which contained 10*2 
grms. of carbon. These 102 grms. of carbon have disappeared from 
the system with the albuminoids ; and in order that the system 
"may have benefited by a gain of 22 grms. of carbon it 
is necessary that it should have made up the deficit of carbon, 
corresponding to the albuminoids lost, that is 10 2 grms. and still 
gained 22 grms. in addition ; in a word, it is necessary that it 
should have established, in the state of fats, the carbon corres- 
pondi ng to 22 grms . + 102 grms . = 30 ■ 2 grms . This number multi- 
plied by 1 -31 gives 3956 grms. which consequently corresponds to 
the weight of fatty bodies gained by the system during this period 
when the subject lost nevertheless 1875 grms. of albuminoids. 

It is thus that the abstract or exact balance of the alimentary 
nitrogen and carbon, compared with the total weight of the same 
elements found in the liquid or gaseous excretions of the subject, 
allows us to calculate, as we see, the quantity of albuminoids or 
(in multiplying this weight by about 5) the weight of muscular 
tissue and the quantity of fat gained or lost in a given time by the 
subject under observation. 

As to the balance of water gained or lost by the tissues, it is 
inferred from the difference between the water introduced by 
drinks and foods and that which is contained in the whole of the 
excretions including perspiration and cutaneous and pulmonary 
expiration. 

The balance of the mineral matters is established in manner quite 
similar according to the difference between the quantity of it 
which is introduced by the whole of the foods and that which is 
excreted by the different channels. 

Suppose now that we wish, for example, to test the influence 

535 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

which such determined alimentary or medicinal matter may 
exercise on the nitrogen and carbon changes, for example on the 
assimilation of albuminoids ; we shall begin by putting the organism 
into a state of nitrogenous equilibrium, that is to say we shall, by 
successive attempts, reach the point of giving the patient under 
observation a quantity of nitrogenous and ternary foods of known 
composition and weight, so that every twenty-four hours the losses 
and gains of the system in nitrogen balance almost exactly. After 
having established the exact nutritive balance, not allowing from 
that time more than a small loss or gain of nitrogen and carbon 
corresponding to the mode of alimentation and thus determined, if 
it is a question of the study of a nitrogenous alimentary matter, 
for example, a certain proportion of the nitrogenous foods of the 
preceding equilibrium allowance will be replaced by a quantity 
of the nitrogenous matter which we wish to study, a quantity con- 
taining the same weight of nitrogen as that which is withdrawn, 
and the loss or gain of nitrogen corresponding to this period, will 
be determined. This loss or gain will allow us to compare the 
utilization of the new matter with that of the matter it replaces. 
On the other hand, if we wish to determine what is the influence 
which a ternary matter, a sugar or fat for example, exercises on 
the assimilation of nitrogen compared with the action of another 
ternary substance, this sugar or this fat must be added to the 
allowance, or better, it may be substituted for an equivalent 
weight of sugar or fat to be compared, and the changes of nitrogen 
which will be effected under the influence of the new alimentation 
will be determined, care being certainly taken only to deter- 
mine the rate of the changes after a period of three days of the 
new regimen has passed, since the state of the previous nutrition 
influences the manner of dissimilation almost during this period 
of time (Moreigne). From the rate of the fresh nitrogenous 
changes we shall conclude what is the relative influence of the 
fats or sugars thus introduced on the assimilation or dissimilation 
of the proteid bodies of the ration under study. 

If we wish to study no longer the comparative influence of the 
substances, but the action of one and the same substance accord- 
ing to its weight, in a subject in nitrogenous equilibrium, we 
must add to a constant allowance of foods an increasing or 
decreasing weight of the substance under study, and the influence 
on the assimilation of the nitrogenous principles of these succes- 
sively increasing or decreasing quantities of additional ternary 
matter will be established by the balance of losses or gains of 
nitrogen. 

In the same way, the study of the fattening or loss of fats of the 
subject may be made, according as such or such foods take their 
place in his diet, the substances or agents the influence of which 
we yfiah to estimate being for the rest nitrogenous or not, ali- 

536 



CONTROL BY THE RESPIRATORY QUOTIENT 

mentary or medicinal, or even consisting of simple physical agents 
such as repose, exercise, cold, hydrotherapy, etc. 

Method hosed on the Determination of the Respiratory Coefficient. — 
The extent of the nutritive changes, and up to a certain point 
their nature, may be determined by consideration of the quantities 
of oxygen consumed and carbonic acid exhaled by the lungs. 
These quantities depend, it is true, on the nature of the alimenta- 
tion, but this varies little for each individual with a determined 
mixed alimentation, and whether the external conditions of work, 
repose, temperature and health happen to change, or whether, 
under well defined conditions, the mode of alimentation is made 
to vary, the extent of the pulmonary changes and their nature 
will give fairly precise indications on the phenomena of meta- 
bolism which are taking place in the organs of the subject 
whose nutrition is being studied or of the patient under treat- 
ment. 

From the point of view of technique, many methods have been 
proposed for measuring the respiratory changes. Generally an 
apparatus with valves ^ and meter for the purpose of measur- 
ing tlie quantities of air inhaled and exhaled, and of making as 
many times as one wishes, in the course of the experiment, 
successive collections of the air which comes out of the lungs and 
which is then submitted to analysis, allows of the calculation of 
the quantity of air inhaled, of the composition of the gases exhaled, 
of carbonic acid (CO^) which is produced and of the oxygen (0) 

CO2 
which has disappeared at the same time. The coefficient ^^ 

(expressed in volumes) is called the respiratory coefficient. We 
know that it varies in the normal state from 80 to 88 ; it is 
on an average 084. A healthy man of average weiglit and at 
repose, breathing freely, takes from the surrounding air from 
530 to 560 litres of oxygen per twenty-four hours and exhales 
450 to 470 litres of carbonic acid. 

The respiratory coefficient jr^ increases during work as well 

as the absolute quantities of CO^ and of 0^ produced or 
consumed. 

After having established what is, for an invalid or healthy 
person at rest, the value of his respiratory quotient and the 
absolute quantities of CO^ and of 0^ expired and consumed by 
him, it is possible, by introducing into his diet such or such foods, 
to determine their influence on the value of his respiratory 
coefficient, and on the quantities of carbonic acid formed and 
oxygen absorbed in the twenty-four hours, for example. When 

' Water or mica valves may be constructed which causo the disappear- 
ance of almost all friction and pressure {Dr. Bidet). 

537 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

the dissimilation produced in the midst of the tissues bears 
especially upon the sugar or on the starchy matters, the respira- 
tory quotient may equal and even exceed unity (Hanriot). It 
falls to 072 or 0-73 with a purely flesh diet and to 070 when the 
fats become more particularly dissimilated. 

The absolute and relative amounts of carbonic acid produced 
and oxygen absorbed are very variable from one individual to 
another. But, under average conditions, and especially in a 
state of repose and of emptiness of the intestines, these numbers 
vary very little for the same person. When his respiratory 
constants have been determined under these conditions, it will 
then be possible to examine the influence that the absorption of 
such or such an alimentary principle may have on these data. 

A similar study may be made by the same method if it is a 
question of determining the influence of such or such a medicine 
on the pulmonary changes. 

Method of Urinary Coefficient. — There is another method of 
studying the effects of different diets as well as of medical treat- 
ment, founded on the determination of the urinary coefficients. 
This method consists in measuring the principal elements of 
the urine and by drawing from their values and particularly 
from their ratios by weight, the indication of the mode in which 
the system is acting. In this way we do not measure, as we can 
by the preceding methods, the absolute extent of the nutritive 
phenomena, but the quality so to speak of the organic discharge 
of functions. 

The examination of the urinary coefficients may also allow 
of determining sometimes the nature of the changes and even 
the organs which are their seat. 

But before explaining the signification of these urinary co- 
efficients and their utilization, I think it useful to call to mind 
again that when passing from one diet (the constants of which 
have been determined) to a new diet, it is only three days at 
least after the substitution of the latter for the old, that the new 
state of functional equilibrium can be considered as attained. 
Then only is it permissible to compare the data thus obtained 
with the preceding data. 

The most useful ratios to know between the weight of the 
principles excreted daily by the kidneys are the following : — 

The ratio between the nitrogen excreted under the form of 
urea and the total nitrogen of the urine or nitrogenous coefficient ; 

The ratio of the urinary carbon to the total nitrogen ; 

The ratio of the phosphoric acid to the total nitrogen ; 

The ratio of the weight of urea to that of total fixed matters ; 

The ratio of uric acid to urea ; 

The ratio of the mineral matters of the urine to the total fixed 

mntters. 

538 



J 



CONTROL BY URINARY COEEFICIENTS 

™, .^ /r? • ^ nitrogen of the urea , . , . 

a. Ihe mtroqenous coefficient f-—j — , which is 

total nitrogen 

also called coefficient of nitrogenous utilization, measures the 
utilization of the assimilable nitrogenous products. It is ad- 
mitted that it attains its maximum when all the nitrogen 
which can be transformed into urea in the system has passed 
under this last form. This ratio in the normal state is equal 
to 0"87 ; it never exceeds 092 or 093 in a healthy man ; 
that is to say that for 100 parts of nitrogen arising from the dis- 
similation of the tissues, or received by the foods and eliminated 
by the kidneys, 87 (or 93 at the most) are found again in the 
urine under the form of urea. 

In the same subject this nitrogenous relation may vary from 
one day to another, but the nature of the food influences it very 
little. However, if the quantity of foods taken exceeds the 
normal limits, the system has not the time to utilize them, 
and as the urea produced diminishes relatively to the total 
alimentary nitrogen, this ratio falls below 080 and even 079. 
It becomes lower also in all illnesses in which the intraorganic 
oxidations decrease : anaemia, rheumatism, neurasthenia, 
hysteria, leucaemia, pneumonia, tabes, etc. Water and all 
aqueous drinks, especially alkaline drinks, raise the nitrogenous 
ratio. It rises with meat diet and decreases with vegetarian diet. 

On the other hand, the nitrogenous matters which have escaped 
oxidation can be revealed and measured by the variations of 
the quantities by weight that the phosphomolybdic, phospho- 
tungstic or silicotungstic acids precipitate in urine previously 
acidified by hydrochloric acid. The phosphomolybdic reagent 
which precipitates these nitrogenous compounds and which 
can be utilized at the sick-bed, is obtained in the following 
way:— 

Phosphomolybdic acid ...... 1 grm. 

Hydrochloric acid . . . . . . 20 „ 

Water 150 „ 

15 cc. of this reagent are added to 25 cc. of urine as a test. 
To obtain an exact determination, the precipitate which forms 
should be washed with hydrochloric acid diluted with its own 
volume of water, dried and weighed. 

This reagent brings with it in particular all the urinary al- 
kaloids. 

b. The ratio -r-r^i • .:— constitutes the real coeflfi- 

total organic matter 

cient of organic utilization. It measures the relative richness 
of the organic urinary wastes in urea. It is in the normal 
state from 89 to 90 per cent. The 10 per cent, of organic 
matters which do not normally change into urea are : — 

539 



DIET AND DIETETICS 



Uric acid ...... 

Hippuric acid ..... 

Urinary matters (colouring and extractive) 



for 



1-60 
1-80 
6-60 



in 10 
» 10 

„ 10 



The proportion varies almost like the preceding. 

^, .. total carbon . , ^, „ t ^ , 

c. the ratio — -, — .- , or ratio of Ch. Bouchard, has been 

especially studied by this savant. He has remarked that in the 
normal state, the liver is the organ which acts the most efficaciously 
in oxidizing the carbon in relation with the circulating nitrogen 
and in turning it, either by hydrolysis towards the intestinal 
channel, or by oxidizing it towards the pulmonary channel. 
This ratio appears then to vary inversely with hepatic activity 
and consequently to give the inverse measure of it. It changes 
with age : between fifteen and forty years it is 76 ; later it 
increases, and in old age it rises to 091. It is, on an average, be- 
tween forty and sixty years, equal to 87. It decreases if, owing 
to the carbon taken by the liver happening to increase, the urin- 
ary carbon diminishes. Hepatic insufficiency makes this ratio 
increase as well as exaggerated alimentation. 

, „, . ,. phosphoric acid} ,, , , . 

d. The urmary ratio ^ /, •, , or Zuelzer s ratio, repre- 

•^ totaJ, nitrogen ^ 

sents the rule of dephosphoration of the system, that is to say 
the losses of phosphorus corresponding to a certain state or to 
a determined weight of phosphoric foods. Each time that 
phosphorus is fixed in the tissues, this ratio diminishes ; it 
increases in the contrary case. Zuelzer's ratio is about 0-18 in 
the normal state ; and varies very slightly in one and the same 
healthy individual if the regimen varies little. It increases with 
milk diet as well as by taking foods rich in phosphorus such as 
bread, egg, etc. It allows us then to follow the fixation or the 
dissimilation of phosphorus in invalids or in subjects put on a 
fixed diet. 

e. The ratio measures the proportion of nucleinic 

urea 

matters dissimUated compared with the urea formed at the 
same time. It rises if the food is enriched in compound nitro- 
genous and phosphoric albuminoids and is proportional to them. 
In a state of health and under average feeding, it is at least 

equal to jt^ or 0025, that is to say that, normally, for each grm. 

of urea thrown off, the urine contains 025 grm. of uric acid. 
This ratio is lowered by the use of chloruretted alkaline waters, 
aqueous drinks and generally by all food which increases the 
excretion of urea. It rises if coffee, tea, chocolate and alcohol 
are used, if an abuse is made of bread, gelatinous or oxalic foods 

1 Expressed in P^O^. 



CONTROL OF ALIMENTARY REGIMENS 

and some other substances whicli increase the excretion of uric 

acid. It rises each time the patient has digestive, cutaneous or 

pulmonary troubles. 

, _,, ^ . sulphur of the sulphates „ ... 

/. ihe ratio - -J — ^— , — ^ , ov Baumann s ratio, waxies, 

total sulphur 

in the normal state from 080 to 090. It represents the coeffi- 
cient of oxidation of sulphur or that of the albuminoids which 
bring it, because it is known that the major part of alimentary- 
sulphur comes from proteid principles which contain 1 per cent, 
of it on an average, and which introduce daily into the system 1 
grm. at least of sulphur corresponding to 25 grms. and more of 
SO^. Baumann's coefficient measures then indirectly the more 
or less complete oxidation of the albuminoid substances, and 
ought to, and indeed generally does, follow the oscillations of the 
niti'ogenous coefficient. 

TT „ ., ,. mineral matters . „ , , ^ . 

q. J^mally, the ratio ^ ^ , ,, — ; — is called the coefficient of 

'' '' total fixed matters " ' 

demineralization. It has been particularly emphasized by A. 
Robin. It oscillates in the state of health between 0-.30 and 
032 ; that is to say, normally, the saline materials of the urine 
represent in weight 30 to 32 per cent, of the totality of the fixed 
substances of tliis excretion. The increase of tliis coefficient 
is the indication of an exaggerated loss of mineral salts, that this 
loss had its origin even in the alimentation which may, in some 
cases, introduce these saline substances superabundantly, for 
example in the case of the vegetarian, or that it has been pro- 
voked by a state of decay of the system such as tuberculosis, 
phosphaturia, diabetes, phosphorism, etc. We have seen (p. 509) 
this urinary coefficient rise to 48 5 per cent, in certain cases of 
anaemia, with rapid demineralization of the blood and tissues, and 
go down again to 35 6, that is to say to almost its normal value, 
after some weeks of a diet of remineralization. 

Method based on the Determination of the Average Weight of the 
Molecule. — The weight of the molecule of the albuminoids of our 
tissues varies according to its nature from 3,000 to 18,000 and 
more. The weight of the molecule of urea is 60, that of uric 
acid 168, that of the hippuric acid 179, etc. In proportion as 
the albumin of our organs is made to undergo a more complete 
disintegration, the molecular weights of its successive deriva- 
tives diminish, approaching more and more that of urea, the 
final form of this dissimilation. If, then, it were possible to 
obtain the average molecular weight of urinary molecules, we 
should have a number so much smaller and nearer to 60 as 
the dissimilation or vital metabolism had been more perfect. 

The cryoscopic methods of Raoult allow us to solve this problem. 
We know that water freezes at 0°. Now, Raoult has established 
that if water contains substances in solution, the lowering of the 

541 



DIET AND DIETETICS 

freezing points of the different solutions are in proportion to the 
molecular concentration, whatever be tlie nature of the dissolved 
substances. Equal lowerings indicate then that the liquids con- 
tain the same number of molecules. For one gramme molecule 
per htre of water, this lowering which is, we repeat, the same what- 
ever be the nature of the dissolved substance, is equal to 185°. 
This said, if A be the lowering of the freezing point observed 
for an aqueous solution, we shall have to express the number 

N of the molecules in solution, N = ,7„^. Let us suppose that the 

solution contains, per 100 cubic centimetres, p grms. of the dis- 
solved substance, the lowering of the freezing point, if the solution 

only contained 1 grm., would be then— , which is called the specific 

lowering of the freezing point. For a solution containing the 

weight M of a molecule expressed in grms. or M grammes for 100 

MA 
cubic centimetres, the lowering will be = 185, an equation 

whence we infer the weight M of the molecule in terms of A and 

. -Mr V 'X 1'85 
of «, or M = - — . 

^ A 

If it is a case of urine, the average molecular weight of the 
elaborated molecule which we will represent by fi is defined by Ch. 
Bouchard ; the averofje weight of the organic molecules of the urine 
(deduction being made of the chloride of sodium ^ and if possible 
of albumin and glucose which would give separately other indica- 
tions). To obtain /x we determine : 1st, the solid matters of 100 
cc. of urine ; 2nd, the chloride of sodium of these 100 cc. ; 3rd, 
the freezing point A of the urine. From the weight of the 
solid matters of 100 cc, the weight of the corresponding chloride 
of sodium is subtracted ; the difference gives the weight of 
elaborated matters.^ 

We multiply by 6 (lowering of the freezing point of a solution 

of salt at j~) , the weight found of chloride of sodium (let this pro- 
duct be d), and we deduct from the A found, the lowering d thus 
calculated which corresponds to the chloride of sodium ; thus 
we have A - (i = 8 for the lowering of the freezing point relative 

to the really elaborated matters. The formula /a = ^ — ^ 

allows of calculating the average weight of the elaborated urinary 
molecule. 

1 Considered in this ease as representing almost by itself the total influ- 
ence of mineral salts not elaborated. 

2 The weight of the albumin and sugar would be deducted in the same 
way if necessary. 

542 



CONTROL OF ALIMENTARY REGIMENS 

Ch. Bouchard has thus found that in general, for the normal 
state, the average weight of tlie elaborated urinary molecule is 
76, with oscillations varying from 82 to 68. 

The average molecular weight rises at tlie least disorder in 
health and augments very notably in sick persons. 

We see how numerous and precise are the indications which 
may be drawn from each of these methods of examination of the 
alimentary regimens in relation to the state of the various organs, 
and to the precise influence which may be exercised on the dis- 
charge of vital functions by the medical treatments or diets 
which are put into practice. 



THE END 



543 



INDEX 



Absinthe, 306 
Abstinence, 398 
Acids in fats, 203 
Adenin, 273 
Adolescence, 393 
Adulterations of milk, 181 
Adynamia, 497 
Agaracin, 250 
Albumin, 8, 145, 198 

transformation of, 53 

composition of, 199 

in vegetables, 249 

loss in, 400 
Albuminoids, 8 

in aliments, 120 

composition of, 9 

necessary, 24, 25, 80, 81, 83 
Albuminuria, 460 

treatment of, 463 
Albumoses, 103 
Alcohols, 35, 123, 278, 285 

abuse of, 283 

in albuminoids, 284 

as aliment, 283 

isobutylic, 305 

isodynamic quantity of, 280 

toxicity of, 310 

in wine, 288 
Alcoholism, 307 

heredity in, 309 
Alimentation, artificial, 526 

exaggerated, 402 

by feeding tube, 526 

by fistula, 527 

in hospitals, 513, 518 

insufficient, 401 

intravenal injections, 530 

milk, 414 ~ < 

necessary, 62, 85, 90, 91 

normal, 17, 19, 21 

in Paris, 11, 13, 18 

in prisons, 523 

during puberty, 369 

rational, 27 

rectum, 527 

its role, 1 

subcutaneous injections,5529 

variation of, 378 



Alimentary principles, 26 

coefficient of, 57, 59 

alkalies, 323 

accessory, 33 
digestibility of, 37 
aromatic, 263, 266, 268 

regimen, 373 

canal, affections of, 499 

idiosyncrasies, 397 
Aliments, sparing, 265, 267 

nervine, 266, 268 

alcohol as, 283 
Alkalies, alimentary, 323 

earthy, 326 
Almonds, 261 
Anaemia, 476 
Anchovies, 318 
Anemocalorimeter, 51 
Animal origin, aliments of, 1 15, 122 
composition of, 125 

condiments of, 318 
Aniseed, 313 
Anisette, 306 
Antheaume, 310 
Antiseptic treatment, 157 

action of, 440 
Aperients, 372 
Appendicitis, 445, 501 
Apple, 258, 296 
Apricot, 258 
Arack, 306 
Armstrong, 105 
Aromatic bodies, 35, 123, 263, 26ft 

condiments, 312 
Arrowroot, 248 
Arsenic, 335 
Arsonval £)', 51 
Arterio-sclerosis, 468 
Arthritis, 427 

treatment of, 428 
Artichokes, 246 
Artificial alimentation, 526 
Asparagus, 240 
Assimilation of aliments, 46, 105 

in different nations, 15 

mechanism of, 3 
Asthma, 469 
Atwater, 281 



545 



N N 



INDEX 



Atwater {continued) 

on energy, 70 

on loss of calories, 96 

on nitrogen, 23 

respiratory calorimeter, 63 

on utilization of foods, 42, 44, 
47, 58, 61, 94 

on water, 100 
Azoturia, 325, 457 

Balance-sheet of alimentation, 14, 
22 

determination of, 532 
Balland, 226, 233, 235, 238, 243, 253, 
254, 255, 259, 260, 262 

on calf's brain, 167 

on fish, 169 

on invertebrata, 172 

on meats, 141, 163 

on venison, 137 
Banana, 260 
Barley, 217 
Barral on bread, 224 
Beans, 235 
Beef- tea, 140 
Beer, 299 

abuse of, 303 
Beetroot, 247 

Benedict on loss of calories, 96 
Bergonie on energy, 51 
Bernard, CI., 403 

Berthelot, on energy, 54, 68, 112, 289 
Bibra, von, 137, 166 
Binz, 280 

Birds, meats of, 163 
Biscuits, 229 
Bitter, 306 
Blennorrhagia, 464 
Blood, as aliment, 168 
Boracic acid in milk, 187 
Bordet, on necessary diet, 25 
Bordier, 379 
Barker, 267 
Botulisme, 162 
Bouchard, 427 

ratio, 540, 543 
Bouley on refrigeration, 158 
Botisaingault, 328, 338 
Brains, 167 

work of, 328 
Bran, 214 
Brandies, 304 
Bread, 220 

adulteration of, 227 

composition of, 221, 224, 226 

derivation of, 228 

fancy, 225 

ginger, 228 

glut«n, 454 



Bread (continued) 

soft, 223 

starch in, 223 

-tree, 261 
Bright's disease, 460, 461 
Bromine, 331 
Broth, 143 
Buckwheat, 218 
Bunge on milk, 177 
Butter, 205 

in milk, 175, 178 

adulterations of, 206 

milk-, 190 
Butyrin, 202, 205 

Cabbage, 241 
Cachexia, 480 
Caffein, 263, 268, 269 
Calories, 52, 60, 380, 384 

by total combustion, 55, 56 
Calorimeter, Atwater's respiratory, 

65 
Calorimetry, 63 
Cancer, 482 

stomachic, 443 
Caper, 254 
Capsicum, 254 

Carbohydrates, necessary at rest, 
24, 25 

and fats, 79 

transformation of, 112 

in vegetables, 249 
Carbon, loss and gain of, 21, 64, 

69 
Carrot, 247 
Casease, 104, 108 
Casein in milk, 188, 193, 249 
Cassis, 306 
Cauliflower, 241 
Caviare, 201, 319 
Celery, 252 
Cellulose, 252 
Cereals, 211 

decoctions of, 219 
Chamherland filter, 358 
Chartreuse, 306 
Chauveau on foods, 80, 8 1 , 280 
Cheese, 194, 372 

non-fermented, 196 

composition of, 197 
Chervil, 313 

Ghevreul on fats, 134, 202 
Chlorine, 331 
Chlorophyll, 232 
Chlorosis, 477 
Chocolate, 274 
Cholesterin, 111 
Chossat, 328, 399 
Cholera, 502 



546 



INDEX 



Cider, 295 

composition of, 297 
Cinnamon, 313 
Cirrhosis, atrophic, 452 
Clinical observation, methods of, 

531 
Clove, 313 

Coagulation ferments, 107 
Coca, 277 
Cocaine, 277 
Cocoa, 273 

Coefificient of utiHzation of foods, 
41, 44, 47, 57, 59 

nitrogenous, 539 

iso thermic, 81 

respiratory, 537 

urinarv demineralization, 509 
Coffee, 268^ 372 

as digestive, 271 

excitement by, 272 
Cognac, 304 
Condiments, 311, 364 

of animal origin, 318 

aromatic, 312 

acrid, 314 

allyhc, 315 

acid, 316 

salt, 316 

sugared, 317 
Conglutin, 250 
Constipation, chronic, 444 

treatment of, 445 
Consumption of foods, 11, 13, 22 
Convalescents, diet of, 506 
Cooking, art of, 362 
Coulter, 353 
Cow, its milk, 179 
Cream, composition of, 189 
Cress, 253 
Croft Hill, 105 
Crout (sour), 241 
Cucumber, 254 
Cumin, 313 
Currant, 259 
Cyanic acid, 113 
Cystitis, 463 

acute, 503 
Cjrtoproteids, 9, 34, 101, 249 

Dahlen, W., 254 
Decomposition, products of, 34 

ferment of, 107 
Delirium tremens, 308 
Dessication, 153 
Diabetes, 453, 455 
Diarrhoea, chronic, 446 
Diastase in beer, 300 
Digestibility of alimentary prin- 
ciples, 37, 39 



Digestion, time of, 39 

aids to, 371 
Diphtheria, 504 
Disease in animals, 161 

Bright's, 460, 461 

chronic, 420, 429 

febrile, 487 

of the heart, 465 

of the Uver, 449 

of the lungs, 469 

of pancreas, 452 

skin, 479 

of water, 352 
Dissimilation, products of , 108, 11) 
Duclaux on butter, 205 
Dyscrasias, 430 
Dysentery, 447 

treatment of, 448 
Dyspepsia, 308 

atonic, 440 

gastric, 434 

treatment of, 435 

Eczema, 479 
Edestin, 249 

Edwards, W., on diets, 98 
Eggs, 198 

in fish, 200, 201 

white of, 198 

yolk of, 199 

composition of, 200 
Eibrennsuppe, 239 
Elements in body, 7 

assimilable, 35 
Endocarditis, 498 
Energy, calculation of, 54 

expenditure of, 49, 51 

furnished by foods, 52 

origin of. 111 

production of, 5, 95 

utilization of, 99 
Enteritis, 447 
Enterokynase, 105 
Equilibrium (N and C), 23, 77, 84 
Equivalence of foods, 80 
Equivalents, alimentary, 73 
Erepsin, 105 
Erysipelas, 504 
Eucasin, 194 
Excitors, 264 

Fats in aliments, 121 

and carbohydrates, 79 

loss in, 400 

in milk, 202, 204 

necessary at rest, 24, 25 

reserve of, 77 

use of, 80 

in vegetable, 250 



547 



INDEX 



Febrile diseases, 487 

treatment of, 488 

tuberculosis, 497 
Feeding, theoretical, 9 
Ferments, 102 

of assimilation, 103 

coagulating, 107 

of decomposition, 107 

of dissimilation, 104 

of hydrolysis, 106 

lactic, 182 
Fermented drinks, 278 
Fever, 488 

diet in, 489 

eruptive, 503 

foods allowed in, 490, 491 

intermittent, 505 

puerperal, 504 

remittent, 505 

treatment of, 502 

typhoid, 501 
Fick on raw meat, 139 
Fisher, E., 105 
Fish, 169 

smoked, 171 
Flesh in mammals, 129 

horse, 136 

offish, 169 

of invertebrata, 1 72 
Flours, 247 
Fluorine, 331 
Foods, 1, 13 

average expenditure of (Paris), 
12 

coefficient of utilization of, 41 

conversion of, 53 

additional, 87 

inorganic, 320 

preparation of, 362 

temperature of, 363 

water in, 14 
Forater on mineral salts. 30, 187, 
321, 396 

on normal alimentation, 19 
Fruits, different sorts of, 256 

composition of, 257 

oily, 262 

starchy, 261 

vegetable, 253 

water in, 256 

Garlic, 242 
Oaaparin on work, 89 
Gelatin, 34, 145 
Gherkin, 254 

Giddiness, stomachic, 444 
Ginger, 315 
Gliadin, 250 
Glucose, 46, 105 



Gluten, 228,'454 
Glycerine, 202, 287, 288 
Glycogen, 111 
Glycosuria, 453 

treatment of, 454 
Goat's milk, 180 
Gottwalt on kidneys, 165 
Gourd, 255 
Gout, 428 
Gravel, 430 
Guarana, 276 
Gumlich on dissimilation, 108 

Haricots, 233 
Heart, 164 

diseases of, 465 

treatment of, 467 
Heat, formation of, 95 
Hematogen, 199, 330 
Herapath on potatoes, 244 
Hepatic, diet of, 450 
Heubner, 390 

Hirschfeld, 81, 83, 405, 459 
Hoffmann on alimentary utiliza- 
tion, 47 
Hospitals, alimentation in, 513, 518 
Haemorrhages, 469 
Huchard, 465 
Hydrolysis of albuminoids, 8 

ferments of, 106 
Hyperchlorhydria, 437 

treatment of, 438 

Ice, 350 

Idiosyncrasies, alimentary, 397 

Inanition, 399 

Influenza, 497 

Insanity, 485 

treatment of, 486 
Intestinal utilization of foods, 41, 

44,59 
Invalids, diet of, 516 
Iodine, 331 
Iron in milk, 177, 329 
Isodynamics, coefficients, 81 

quantities of alcohol, 280, 282 

of rations, 73, 75, 80 
Isoglycosic regimes, 80 
Iso thermic coefficients, 81 
JavaX, A., 268, 325, 415, 461 

Kava, 315 

Kemmerich, 321, 328 
Kephir, 105, 192, 432 
Kidneys, 165, 459 
Kirschwasser, 305 
Klemperer, 81 
Kniriem, 232, 251 

on absorption of tissues, 35 



548 



INDEX 



Koenig, 131, 156, 212, 217, 247, 253, 

255, 270, 302 
Kola, 268, 276 
Koumiss, 191 

Labour, amount of, 86 
Lact-albumin, 175 
Lactine, 317 
Laurel, 314 
Lavoisier on heat, 112 
Lebedeff on milk, 178 
Lecithins, 110 
Leek, 241 
Legumin, 232 

vegetable, 249 
Lemon, 259 
Lentils, 235 
Lettuce, 251, 252 
Leube on digestibility, 37 
Leukaemia, 477 
Liebig, 144, 145, 148, 279, 385 
Lime, 326, 327 
Liver, 166 

diseases of, 449 

treatment of, 452 
Locke, serum of, 328 
Lucca, de, 262 
Lungs, 166 

diseases of the, 469 

Magendie, 225 

on fats, 79 

on broth, 146 
Magnesia, 326, 327 
Maize, 218 
Maltase, 105 
Maltose, 299 
Man, nutrition of, 8 
Manganese, 330 
Manioc, 245 
Margarin, 206 
Marrow, 167 
Mate, 277 

Matter, inorganic, in potatoes, 244 
in vegetables, 242 

organic, in coffee, 271 
in water, 342, 354 
Maurel on diet, 25, 383, 391 
Mead, 318 
Meals, composition of, 367 

distribution of, 366 
Meat, 124 

actinomycosic, 162 

antiseptic, 157 

boiled, 142 

colom*ed, 164 

congealed, 157 

diet, 416 

different, 135 

diseased, 161 



Meat {continued) 

extracts of, 147 

frozen, 159 

juice of, 140 

pepton of, 149 

preserved, 152 

raw, 139 

roast, 140 

salted, 154 

smoked, 155 

solution of, 150 

of wild animals, 163 
Mechanical work, influence of, 378 
Melon, 254 

Mene on sheep flesh, 132, 133 
Meningitis, 499 
Menopause, 396 
Mental effort, influence of, 377 
Microbes in water, 360 
Milk, 174, 389 

adulteration of, 181 

ass's, 181 

composition of, 177, 184 

cow's, 179, 180 

cream of, 206 

diet, 413 

goat's, 180 

human, 177 

modified, 187 

preservation of, 185 

reaction of, 175 

sterihzation of, 183, 186, 390 
Milk-sugar, 176, 317 
Milt, 202 

Mineral matters, 30, 31 
in fish, 170 
in food, 32, 121, 123 
in muscular tissue, 128 

salts in broth, 145 
in coffee, 271 
in extracts, 148 
necessar3% 323 
in vegetables, 233 
diet to restore, 509 
urinary, 538 

waters, 350 
Molecular concentration, 543 
Moleschott, 258 
Mosso, 269, 276 
Muntz on white bread, 226 
Muscular atony, stomachic, 441 

treatment of, 442 
Mushrooms, 250 

composition of, 251 
Mussel, flesh of, 173 
Mustard, 315 
Myoalbumin, 128 
Myosin, 127 
Myostroin, 127 



549 



INDEX 



Nephritis, 450 

treatment of, 462 

acute, 503 
Neurasthenia, 483 

treatment of, 485 
Nicloux on human milk, 179 
Nitrogen, loss and gain of, 21, 23, 
64, 69, 387 

Atwater on, 23 

in alcohol, 284 

in urine, 24 
Nitrogenous products, 109 
Nourishment, 7 
Nucleins, 8, 102, 127 
Nucleon, 176 

Nucleoproteids, 9, 34, 101, 249 
Nurses, wet, 395 

their alimentation, 517 
Nutmeg, 312 
Nutrition, 5 

mechanism of, 101 
Nutritive principles, 20, 88 
of aliments, 115 

Oats, 217 

Obesity, 421 

treatment of, 425 
Oenohne, 290 
Oils, 204 
Olein, 205 
OUve, 262 
Onion, 241, 242 
Organic materials, 122 

in egg, 200 
Organs, internal, 164 
Ossein, 33, 127 
Osteo-malacia, 479 

-porosia, 479 
Overfeeding, 404 
Ox, parts of, 131 
Oxalate of lime in cocoa, 274 
Oxalic acid, 111 

in foods, 431 
Oxaluria, 432 

treatment of, 433 
Oxidising ferments, 106 
Oyster, flesh of, 173 

Palmitin, 205 

Pancreas, diseases of the, 452 

Pavlow, 105, 266 

Payen, 83, 170, 245 

Peach, 258 

Pear, 258 

Peas, 234 

Pectin in cider, 298 

Pellagra, 480 

Penzoldt on digestion, 39 

Pepper, 314 



Peptons, 151 
Pericarditis, 498 
Peritonitis, 445, 500 
Perrin, 279 
Perry, 298 
Phosphaturia, 457 
Phosphorated compounds, 102 
Phosphorus, 332 

organic, 333 
Phosphoric acid, 130, 233, 333, 334 
Plants, 210 
Plethora, 468 
Pleurisy, 497 
Pneumonia, 496 

-broncho, 497 
Poisoning by fish flesh, 171 
Polyuria, 325 
Postemack, 209 
Potash, richness of, 323 
Potatoes, 243 

Poiichet, G., on salts in meat, 148 
Pregnancy, 394 

alimentation during, 517 
Prisons, aUmentation in, 523 
Proteids, 8, 198 

in aUments, 121 
Psychic phenomena, 50, 70 
Puberty, alimentation during, 369, 

393 
Pumpkin, 255 
Pyrimidic bases, 109 

Quotient, respiratory, 537 

Radish, 247 

Ranke on fat production, 78 
Refrigeration, 158 
Regimes, 43, 373 

inanition, 399 

influence of, 375 

intestinal utiUzation, 43 

isodynamic, 75, 80 

isoglycosic, 80 

de luxe, 374 

of newly bom, 389 

meat-, 416 

milk-, 413 

variations of, 383 

vegetarian, 407 
RemineraUzation, diet of, 511 
Rennet, 104, 175 
Rheumatism, gastro- intestinal, 448 

articular, 498 
Rhubarb, 253 
Rjaaantzeff, 430 
Rice, 218 
Richet, 381, 401 
Rickets, 478 
Rivot on ash in bread, 224 



550 



INDEX 



Robin, 422, 423, 450, 451, 511 

Roos, L., 280 

Roots, 246 

Rosemann, 283 

Rosenheim, 442 

RiJJbner, 61, 74, 208, 231, 244, 381, 

382 
Rum, 305 
Rye, 216 

Saccharose in fruits, 255 

as condiment, 317 
Saffron, 314 
Sago, 248 
Salep, 248 
Salsify, 247 
Salts in aliments, 121 

in meat extracts, 148 

privation of, 325 

in the system, 29, 320, 324 

in mushrooms, 250 

in water, 337 

in wine, 290 
Salted meats, 154 

condiments, 316 
Savory, 313 
Schlenker, 187 
Schmiedeberg, 322 
Scrofula, 477 

treatment of, 478 
Scurvy, 481 

treatment of, 482 
Seneca, on vegetarianism, 409 
Septicemia, 504 
Shoots, 240 
Silicon, 335 
Sinclair, J., 408 
Skimmed milk, 174 

composition of, 184 
Skin as food, 167 

diseases of, 479 

treatment of, 480 
Smoking, 155 
Smolensky, 19, 387 
Soda, richness of, 323 
Soja, beans of, 236 
Sorrel, 253 
Soup, 237, 238 
Soxhlet apparatus, 186 
Spinach, 251 
Spleen, 165 
Starch, 223, 236 

in cocoa, 274 

in fruits, 261 
Stearin, 205 

Sterilization of milk, 183 
Stoklaza, 107, 176, 330 
Stomach, time of digestion in, 39 
Strawberry, 258 



Succinic acid, 289 
Sucrase, 104 
Sulphur, 110, 332 
Sweetbread, 167 
Syphilis, 480 

Tafia, 305 
Tapioca, 247 
Tea, 272, 372 
Ternary principles, 208 
necessity of, 79 
dissimilation of, 110 
Thein, 268 
Theobromine, 268 
Theophyllin, 273 
Thirst, 264, 337 
Tissues, albuminoids in, 16 

muscular, 126 
Tomato, 254 
Tuberculosis, 161, 469, 470, 510 

treatment of, 471 

concentrated diet for, 474 

febrile-, 497 

osseous-, 475 
Typhlitis, stercoral, 445 

Vffelmann on albumin, 1 8 
on alimentary ration, 27 

Urea, 400 

Uric acid, 110 

Urine, 211 

Utilization, coefficient of, 41, 57, 59 
intestinal, 41, 47 
intestinal, 252 

Vanilla, 312 
Vegetables, dry, 231 

conserves of, 238 

amylaceous, 247 

fruits, 253 

foods, 321 

green, 249 

herbaceous, 251, 252 

soups, 237 

origin, aliments of, 117, 123, 
208, 210 

classification of, 211 
Vegetarianism, 408 
Venison, 137 
Vermont, 306 
Vessels, culinary, 365 
Vine, 259 
Vinegar, 316 
Voit, C, 325, 399 

on albuniin, 18 

on normal alimentation, 19, 27 

on exclusive diets, 76 
Volkm,ann on mineral principles, 29 



551 



INDEX 



Water from artesian wells, 346 

of canals, etc., 348 

character of, 339 

distilled, 344 

drinking, 336 

in foods, 14, 99 

in fruits, 256 

loss of, 337 

presence of lead in, 343 

mineral matters in, 342, 354 

oxygenation of, 347 

diseases of, 352 

mineral, 350 

distribution of, 356 

filtration of, 357, 359 

in potato, 243 

purification of, 356, 361 

qualities of, 339, 341 

rain, 344 

river, 346 

salts in, 337 

spring, 344 

composition of, 345 

from wells, 349 
Weight of molecule, determination 

of, 541 
Weir-Mitchell on neurasthenia, 484 
Wheat, 213, 220 



Whey, 176, 190 

Whiskey, 306 

Widal, 415, 461 

Wild mammals, meats of, 1 63 

Wine, 286 

alcohol in, 288 

dry, 292 

dry extract of, 287 

plastered, 293 

qualities, 291 

white, 288 
Woehler, 230 
Wolff, E., 129,215 
Work, exterior, 50 

mechanical, 87 

muscular, 98 

ration during, 89, 95 

Xanthin in tea, 273 

Yams, 245 

Yaourt, 193 

Yeast, formation of, 2, 3 

extraction from, 107 

low, 300 

Zomo therapy, 140 
Zuelzer's ratio, 540 



Butler & Tanner, The Selwood Printing Works, Frome, and London. 

552 






•d 




© 




n 




o 


•c 


1 ^ 


Si 


1 4> 


ti 


4* 


.^^M 




^<i 


k 


- • 


CI 


F"* 


c* 


'U)"§ 


•pi 


d} 


0) 

•rti 




Q; 


U 









.c 


i> 


'4>> 




3 


■«-' 


<U 


H 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBEAEY BUREAU 



