
{■Jass_XX7i51 

B()ok_i£?_7J 

('<ip\iiglil N" 

coPYRUiirr i)i:posit. 




opcalap 



A COLLECTION OF RECIPES 



AS USED BY 



npilt) ^J^apiaR ^olliii)^ 



N HER LECTURES. 



FOURTH EDITION. 



COPYRIGHTED, 1906, 

lY EMILY MARIAN COLLING. 



UBRARYof C0N6RF.SS 
Two Conies Received 

AUG 23 »906 

Co(wri«m Entry 
CLASfe O- XXc. No. 



(N 



/y^ 



<\ 



To the Public : 

Having received so many requests for 
recipes from all parts of the country 
where I have had the pleasure of appear- 
ing as lecturer and demonstrator, I have 
deemed it advisable to compile this little 
book of the most popular recipes used in 
mv lectures, and hope it will prove an 
assistance to housewives desirous of plac- 
ing- on their tables, daintv dishes at a 
moderate cost. 

In presenting these recipes to the pub- 
lic I desire to state that I lay little claim 
to originality, simply offering a collection 
of popular recipes of both my own and 
others as used in my lectures. 

EMILY MARIAN- COLLING. 



POPULAR DISHES. 



Coofttng with (5a6- 

Gas for cooking purposes is every year 
becoming more popular, and no wonder, 
for it is an ideal fuel. 

In warm weather where a gas range is 
used, one can cook without the discomfort 
of a hot cast iron range, the heat from 
which, added to that of the summer 
weather, makes life a burden, and cooking 
a drudgery. 

A gas range gives but little heat (un- 
less you wish it to) and cools off quickly 
after using. 

From five to ten minutes only are re- 
quired for heating the oven, while a cast 
iron or steel range usually requires an 
hour. With a gas range in the kitchen, 
cooking is a delight. In using gas for 
cooking, a few simple rules should be ob- 
served. Never light the top burners until 
ready to use them and when through with 
them turn the gas out. If needed again 
in a few minutes, it is better to relight 
than to leave them burning. Remember 
that matches are cheaper than gas. 

In lighting the oven burners, never 
turn the gas on until the match is lighted 



4 Popular Dishes. 

and ready to ignite it and remember that 
from five to ten minutes only are required 
to heat the oven. 

When broiHng or roasting, it is best to 
keep the damper in the stovepipe open. 
By so doing, the draft will draw all odors 
up the chimney. 

When a pot containing vegetables of 
any kind begins to boil, turn the flame 
down, or place over simmering burner, al- 
lowing just heat enough to keep it at boil- 
ing point. 

By a little care and practice one may 
bake bread and cake at the same time. 
One may also bake bread or biscuits in 
the upper oven, while roasting or broiling 
in the lower one. 

TO PLANK FISH. 

When using a gas range, one is enabled 
to serve planked shad or white fish, deli- 
cacies which only the possessors of gas 
ranges can indulge in. 

Have a piece of hard w^ood (oak or 
hickory) about one and a half inches thick 
and as large as your broiling oven will 
accommodate, made expressly for plank- 
ing. Have both sides planed very smooth- 
ly, so that it may be easily cleaned. 

Prepare the fish by splitting down the 
back and cleaning carefully. About ten 
minutes before it is needed place the plank 
in the heated broiling oven : when well 



To Plank Fish. 5 

heated through, remove and place the fish 
upon it, skin-side down. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and baste lightly with 
melted butter and lemon juice. 

Run the plank into the broiling oven so 
that the fish will come about six inches 
from the flame, which should be a mod- 
erate one. Allow it to remain until a nice 
brown and tender, which usually requires 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. Watch 
carefully, and if there seems danger of 
scorching, reduce the flame or move the 
tray one slide lower down. 

When done (which may be ascertained 
by trying with a silver fork), remove 
from the oven, baste again with melted 
butter, garnish with lemon and pasley. 
Arrange the plank on a tray and send at 
once to the table. Never use soap or any 
alkali in cleansing the plank, which should 
be kept carefully covered when not in use, 
to prevent dust from settling on it. 

BROILING FISH. 

Five minutes before putting the fish 
into the broiling oven light both burners ; 
grease the broiling rack to prevent the 
fish from sticking, place the fish on the 
rack, skin side down, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and baste with melted butter. 
When the broiling oven is hot, run the 
broiler in, on a slide which will bring it 
six or eight inches from the flame. Watch 



6 Popular Dishes. 

carefully and regulate the tiame. so that 
the lish may not scorch. \\'hen about 
half done, baste again with melted butter. 
When done (which may be ascertained 
by trying with a silver fork), carefully 
loosen the tish from the broiler with a 
limber knife, remove with care to a heat- 
ed platter, spread liberally with softened 
butter, garnish with parsley and lemon 
and serve. 

BROILING STEAK. 

Gas is the ideal fuel for broiling. When 
properly done, the meat is juicy, tender 
and delicious. To secure these results the 
following directions should be carefully 
carried out. 

Buy a steak at least one inch thick. It 
is a great mistake to buy thin steak for 
broiling. Trim off the surplus fat and 
shape nicely. Light the oven burners 
fully five minutes before putting in the 
steak as it is of the greatest importance 
that the broiling oven should be well heat- 
ed before the meat is put in. 

When it is hot put the steak on the 
broiling rack and run it into the broiling 
oven, on the slide which will bring the 
meat ver\- close to the flame. Leave the 
dcor open throughout the broiling and 
when one side of the steak is seared, turn 
it over and sear the other side. Allow the 
second side to become a rich, dark brown. 



Broiling Steak. 7 

then turn and brown the other side. When 
done remove to a hot platter and either 
pour over it the contents of the drip pan 
or spread with butter; sprinkle liberally 
with pepper and salt, garnish with pars- 
ley, slices of tomato and lemon and ser^-e 
at once. 

Three things must be remembered. 
First, be sure the broiling oven is hot 
when the steak is put in: second, sear first 
one side, then the other to seal in the 
juices : third, never pierce the meat with 
a fork while cooking, or after it is coc»ked, 
as this allows the escape of the juices, 
making the steak dr\- and tasteless. In 
turning the steak it is best to remove the 
drip pan and rack from the oven, placing 
it on the dropped door, if the range has 
one. if not, on the top of the range, or on 
the table, as the steak can be turned much 
easier and quicker in this way. 

ROASTIXG. 

With a gas range, one may have meat 
roasted, which is not possible in an ordi- 
nary range. For this the broiling oven 
must be used, and the dc>or left open all 
dtiring the process, unless the dor*r con- 
tains large perforations for the admission 
of fresh air. 

Light the oven burners fully live min- 
utes before putting in the roast, as it is of 



8 Popular Dishes. 

the utmost importance that the broiHng 
oven should be well heated. 

Put the meat on the broiling- rack, 
sprinkle with pepper and run it into the 
broiling oven, so that the meat will be 
about one and a half or two inches from 
the flame. When one side is seared, ex- 
pose another part to the heat, and so con- 
tinue until all sides are seared, thus seal- 
ing in the juices, then place on a lower 
slide to finish. Baste every ten or fifteen 
minutes with the fat in the drip pan, turn 
frequently, being very careful not to 
pierce it with the fork, which would allow 
the juices to escape, thus making the meat 
dry and tasteless. Allow about eighteen 
minutes to each pound of meat and one- 
half hour before the meat is done, sprinkle 
it all over with salt. 

At serving time remove the meat to a 
hot platter, drain off all but two or four 
tablespoon fuls of fat (according to the 
size of the family). To each two table- 
spoonfuls add two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour, rub to a paste, then add one-half 
pint of boiling water or stock, place over 
the fire and stir until it bubbles, season to 
taste with salt and pepper and serve. 
Many persons prefer meat cooked in this 
way to that baked in an oven, but where 
the latter method is preferred, bake as in 
an ordinary range, lighting the oven burn- 
ers ten minutes before putting in the meat. 
Place the meat in the oven, allowing a 



Roasting. g 

strong heat for thirty minutes (about 
500°). At the end of that time reduce 
the heat to about 410°, by turning off 
some of the gas, and finish baking at the 
reduced temperature, basting every fifteen 
minutes. When done finish the same as 
roasted meat. 

FRYING ON A GAS RANGE. 

Frying may be done more perfectly and 
with much greater ease and comfort (es- 
pecially in hot weather) over gas, than 
with any other fuel, as one has such per- 
fect control over it and can keep the fat 
at an even temperature, by a slight turn 
of the valve. 

For frying one should have a deep ket- 
tle, a wire frying basket, a plate to rest it 
on and receive any fat which may drop 
from it and a flat pan lined with soft 
paper, to receive the articles as they are 
taken from the basket. 

Have sufficient fat in the pan to com- 
pletely cover the articles to be fried ; place 
over the gas flame and allow it to heat 
until a bluish smoke rises from it, or until 
a small piece of bread will brown in it 
quickly. 

When frying croquettes put only two 
at a time into the basket, as more than 
this will lower the temperature so that the 
fat will soak into them, which must al- 
w^ays be avoided. After putting the cro- 



10 Popular Dishes. 

quettes in, place the basket in the hot fat 
and when they are a rich brown, lift the 
basket, placing it on the plate. Lift the 
croquettes one at a time and place them 
on the soft paper to drain. Have the 
oven warm and keep the pan containing 
the fried articles in it to keep them warm. 
When frying oysters, unless very large, 
three may be put in at a time. 

BAKING BREAD AND ROLLS. 

Five or ten minutes before the oven will 
be needed for baking, light both burners 
and before putting the articles to be baked 
into the oven, regulate the flame so as to 
obtain the desired amount of heat. 

A two-pound box loaf of bread should 
bake one hour in a temperature of 400° ; 
smaller loaves may be baked in a slightly 
hotter oven and removed when a nice 
brown. Ten minutes before taking the 
bread from the oven turn off the gas en- 
tirely, in order to utilize the heat remain- 
ing in the oven. 

Rolls require a temperature of about 

430°. 

Baking powder biscuits, gems and 
quick muffins about 500°. 

Li baking all these articles place them 
on the middle or upper rack, as the heat 
in a gas range oven is usually more uni- 
form in the upper part. 

If the proper amount of gas is used 



Baking Bread. ii 

everything baked in these ovens should be 
a beautiful and uniform brown. If the 
bottom scorches before the top is brown, 
it is usually an indication that too much 
gas was used. If one has not an oven 
thermometer the desired results may be 
obtained by carefully observing the 
amount of gas turned on each time, for 
each class of articles, if not just right the 
first time, more or less as required may be 
turned on the next and all succeeding 
times. By a little practice and intelligent 
observation one may soon obtain the most 
satisfactory results. 

BAKING PASTRY. 

Few things require as much care in 
baking as pastry. Before baking it should 
be thoroughly chilled. Light the oven 
burners ten minutes before putting in the 
pastry and in five minutes regulate the 
heat by turning off, if necessary, some of 
the gas; about 500°, or a temperature 
suitable for baking powder biscuits, will 
be found suitable for pastry. 

Place the pie or patties on the middle 
slide of the gas range oven, and when 
well puffed up (in about twelve minutes) 
turn off some of the gas and finish baking 
at a lower temperature (about 420°). 

In baking pattie shells they should be 
well puffed up at the end of twelve or fif- 
teen minutes : at that time reduce the heat 



12 Popular Dishes. 

and slip a thin sheet of asbestos under the 
pan, or on the shelf below them, to pre- 
vent them from scorching on the bottom. 

BAKING CAKES. 

Fully ten minutes before the cake is 
ready for the oven, light the front burner 
and in five minutes regulate the flame to 
furnish the desired amount of heat. 

A loaf cake containing butter requires 
a temperature of 400°, cookies about 
425°, layer cakes and pattie cakes 420°, 
angel food and sunshine cake 380°. 

Cookies should be baked upon the U|p- 
per slide of the oven, but the middle slide 
will be found most satisfactory for the 
baking of all other cakes. 

Where two slides are needed for layer 
cakes use the two upper ones, being care- 
ful not to place the tins so that one comes 
immediately over another. 

TOASTING. 

Toasting by gas is done quickly and 
easily. 

Light the oven burners, then cut the 
bread the desired thickness (one-half inch, 
luiless otherwise preferred). Place it on 
the broiling rack and run into the warm 
broiling oven. Leave the door open and 
give the toast constant attention until 
every piece is out. Watch carefully and 



Toasting. 13 

as each piece browns, turn and brown the 
other side. Serve at once, with or with- 
out butter, as preferred, the latter being 
preferable for those having weak diges- 
tive organs. 

There is a gauze wire toaster made, 
which may be used over the flame, which 
does beautiful work, the gauze wire pre- 
venting the flame from reaching the toast. 

TWICE BAKED BREAD. 

Cut stale bread into very thin slices, ar- 
range in a single layer on a large baking 
pan. Light one oven burner, place the pan 
in the oven and keep the oven at a very 
moderate heat until the bread is crisp and 
a delicate brown. This may be served 
either hot or cold (is delicious either 
way) and as the starch in the bread is 
partly converted into dextrin, it is the 
safest form of bread to give to a dyspep- 
tic or invalid. 

S0UP9. 

SOUP STOCK. 

One shin of beef, five quarts of cold 
water, one onion, one small carrot, one 
turnip, two bay leaves, one sprig of pars- 
ley, twelve cloves, one stock of celery, one 
level tablespoonful of salt. Wipe the 
meat well with a damp cloth, then re- 



14 Popular Dishes. 

move all the meat from the bone. Place 
the bones in the bottom of a large porce- 
lain-lined or granite soup kettle (never 
use an iron kettle for soup). Cut the 
meat into very small pieces across the 
grain and lay on top of the bones, add the 
cold water and stand the kettle on the 
back of the range for one hour, then place 
it over a good fire. When it begins to 
steam and the scum appears on the top 
place it over a more moderate fire, add 
one-half cup of cold water and remove the 
scum. Then cover the kettle securely and 
allow it to simmer gently for four hours. 
Now add the salt and vegetables and sim- 
mer one hour longer. Now remove from 
the fire, strain first through a colander 
and again through a fine sieve and put at 
once into a cold place. When cold and 
solid remove the grease and it is ready 
for use. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart of stewed tomatoes, or one 
quart can, one pint of stock, one small 
onion, one bay leaf, one stalk of celery, 
and a sprig of parsley, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful of baking 
soda, two level tablespoonfuls of butter, 
four level tablespoonfuls of flour, salt and 
pepper to taste. Put the tomatoes in a 
saucepan with the onion, bay leaf, parsley 
and celery, let it stew for about ten min- 



Soups. 1 5 

utes. Now press through a sieve fine 
enough to remove the seeds. Put it into 
a clean saucepan with the stock, place over 
the fire and bring to a boiling point. Rub 
the butter and flour together until smooth, 
and stir into the boiling soup. Stir con- 
stantly until smooth, then add the salt, 
pepper, sugar and soda, and serve. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Four roots of celery, one quart of milk, 
one pint of water in which celery was 
boiled, three level tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, six level tablespoonfuls of flour, about 
three level teaspoonfuls of salt, and white 
pepper to taste, one slice of onion. Wash 
the celery and cut into small pieces, cover 
it with boiling water and boil about one- 
half hour, or until tender, then press it 
through a colander. Put the milk on 
in a farina boiler with the onion. Rub 
the butter and flour together, and stir into 
the boiling milk, stir a moment, then re- 
move the onion and add the strained cel- 
ery and water, also the salt and pepper. 
When thoroughly heated serve. This soup 
is improved by using one-half milk and 
one-half veal or chicken stock. 

CREAM OF CHEESE SOUR 

One quart of milk, one slice of onion, 
one slice of carrot, one blade of mace, two 



1 6 Popular Dishes. 

tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, three heaping- tablespoonfuls 
of grated Parmesan cheese or three- 
fourths cup of American cheese, yolks of 
two eggs, salt and pepper. Directions: 
Put the milk on in the double boiler 
with the carrot, onion and mace; rub 
butter and flour together; when the milk 
has reached boiling point remove the veg- 
etables and add the butter and flour; stir 
constantly until it thickens ; add the cheese 
and stir until melted, then take it from 
the fire ; add beaten yolks of the eggs, salt 
and pepper. Serve at once. This soup 
cannot be heated over. 



CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP. 

One quart of fresh lima beans, or one 
can, one pint of milk and one pint of veal 
or chicken stock, or one quart of milk, two 
level tablespoonfuls of butter, two level 
tablespoonfuls of flour ; salt and pepper to 
taste. If fresh beans are used put into a 
saucepan, cover with boiling water and 
boil gently about one-half hour until ten- 
der, drain and press through a colander. 
Put the milk on in a double boiler, 
also the stock, if used. Rub the butter 
and flour together, add to the boiling mix- 
ture, stir until it thickens, then add the 
beans and salt and pepper, cover and let 
stand until hot, then serve. 



Soups. 1 7 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

One can (or one pint of cooked peas) 
one quart of rich milk, two rounding ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, three level table- 
spoonfuls of flour, salt to taste and white 
pepper if desired. 

If canned peas be used, drain the peas 
and wash through two waters. Press 
them through a colander or vegetable 
press. This will be found easier if they 
are first heated. Put the milk in a double 
boiler, rub the butter and flour together, 
when the milk is scalded add these, then 
salt and pepper and last the strained peas. 
\^nien thoroughly heated, serve. 

If French peas are used, or carefully 
cooked fresh ones, this soup is a delicate 
green, forming a very suitable one for a 
green and white luncheon. 

CREAM OF SALMON SOUP. 

One-half can of salmon, one quart of 
milk, two rounding tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, two rounding tablespoonfuls of flour, 
two level teaspoon fuls of salt, speck of 
cayenne. 

Drain the oil from the salmon, remove 
bones and skin, mash the salmon fine, add 
one cup of the milk heated and strain 
through a sieve or vegetable press. Put 
the rest of the milk into a double boiler 
over the fire, rub the butter and flour to- 



1 8 Popular Dishes. 

gether and add to the scalded milk, stir a 
moment, add salt and cayenne and last the 
strained salmon. When well heated, 
serve. 

If wanted for a pink luncheon, a drop 
or two of red coloring may be added to 
make it a little more decided pink. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Place in a saucepan one cup of tomatoes 
(stewed or canned), add a small blade of 
mace, two slices of onion, one level tea- 
spoon of celery salt, and a sprig of pars- 
ley. Cook ten minutes, strain, removing 
all seeds, add one-half teaspoon of sugar, 
one-eighth teaspoon of baking soda, the 
same of paprika and one level teaspoon of 
salt. 

Put one pint of milk into a double boil- 
er, melt three level tablespoons of butter, 
add to it two level tablespoons of flour, 
mix and add to the hot milk. Just before 
pouring into the tureen, combine the two 
and serve at once. 

FRUIT SOUP. 

These soups may be made from cur- 
rants, oranges, cranberries, or a mixture 
of currants and raspberries. One pint of 
juice, one pint of boiling water, one table- 
spoonful or arrowroot, sugar to taste. 
Moisten the arrowroot in a little cold wa- 



Soups. 19 

ter, add the boiling water and sugar, boil a 
moment and add the fruit juice. At serv- 
ing time, half-fill a punch bowl with crack- 
ed ice, pour in the fruit juice and it is 
ready to serve. Serve in punch glasses. 

HALIBUT BAKED WITH ONION. 

Have a halibut steak cut about one and 
a half inches thick. Butter the bottom of 
a baking pan ; sprinkle it with finely- 
chopped onion. Put the halibut steak on 
top of this, brush it over with the yolk of 
an egg, sprinkle with chopped onion, pars- 
ley, pepper and salt. Pour over it a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and place over it 
here and there small bits of butter, using 
in all about a rounding tablespoon ful, and 
bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. Gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve Bechamel sauce with it. 

HALIBUT STEAK WITH WELSH 
RAREBIT. 

Take a halibut steak one to one and 
one-half inches thick, sprinkle with salt, 
pour over it a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and the same of melted butter. Place 
on a fish sheet in a baking pan and bake 
rather slowly for half an hour, or until 
done, baste once with melted butter. 



20 Popular Dishes. 

When ready to serve, slide carefully onto 
a hot platter and pour over it a Welsh 
rarebit made as follows, and serve imme- 
diately. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Put into a saucepan a rounding table- 
spoonful of butter, place over the fire and 
melt, then add one-half pound of soft 
cheese chipped fine and stir until melted, 
then add gradually one-half cup of cream, 
when hot, stir in the beaten yolks of two 
eggs, add one-half teaspoonful of salt and 
a speck of cayenne. Take at once from 
the fire and serve. 

BAKED FILLETS OF HALIBUT. 

Two pounds of halibut, one-quarter cup 
of butter, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one-quar- 
ter teaspoonful of onion juice, one-half 
saltspoonful of pepper. Have the halibut 
cut into three-quarter inch slices, remove 
the skin and cut slices into fillets. Melt 
the butter and add the seasonings. Dip 
each fillet into this sauce, place on a fish 
sheet, or in a shallow pan and bake about 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven, serve with 
tomato cream sauce. 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT. 

Have the slice of halibut cut about one- 
half inch thick, divide each slice into four 



Fish. 21 

pieces of equal size. For each slice take 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, add 
to it one teaspoonful of lemon juice and 
one^eighth teaspoonful of onion juice, 
mix thoroughly, dip each piece of halibut 
in this mixture, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and roll into turbans. Fasten each 
with two wooden toothpicks, which have 
been dipped into melted butter. Place in 
a granite baking pan and bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. Have ready some 
boiled potato balls, pour melted butter 
over them while hot and sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. Arrange the tur- 
bans in centre of a hot platter and use the 
potato balls as a garnish. 

FRIED HALIBUT. 

Have the halibut cut in slices about 
three- fourths of an inch thick; cut in 
pieces about two inches square. Dip and 
fry the same as oysters. 

FISH ROLLS. 

One pound of raw fish, one and one- 
quarter cups of soft bread crumbs, one- 
half cup of milk, whites of two eggs, one 
level teaspoonful salt, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, a speck of cay- 
enne, one teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. 

Cut the fish very fine with a silver knife. 



22 Popular Dishes. 

Put crumbs and milk over the fire and stir 
until smooth. Take from the fire, add 
the fish, the unbeaten whites and season- 
ings. Mix well, turn out to cool. When 
cold form into small cylinders, cover with 
bread crumbs, egg and bread crumbs and 
fry like croquettes. 



ESCALOPED FISH. 

One pint of pieces of cold cooked fish, 
two eggs, one pint of milk, one rounding 
tablespoonful of butter, two rounding ta- 
blespoonfuls of flour, one blade of mace, 
one bay leaf, one sprig of parsley and one 
small piece of onion. Put the milk on 
in a double boiler, add to it the mace, 
onion, parsley and bay leaf. Rub the but- 
ter and flour together, and when the milk 
reaches boiling point remove the season- 
ing and stir in the butter and flour, stir 
until thickened (about two minutes), 
then add the well beaten eggs and remove 
from the fire; add half a teaspoonful of 
salt and a speck of cayenne; put a layer 
of this sauce in the bottom of the baking 
dish, then a layer of the fish, then another 
layer of the sauce and so on until all is 
used, having the last layer sauce. Sprinkle 
the top lightly with bread crumbs and put 
in the oven until a nice brown. This may 
also be served in scallop dishes or shells. 



fish. 23 

FISH TURBOT IN SHELLS. 

To every pound of cooked fish allow 
four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs, one round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, one rounding 
tablespoonful of flour, one cup of cream 
or milk, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Scald 
the cream; rub butter and flour together 
until smooth; add to the scalded cream, 
stir until it thickens; add the bread 
crumbs, and stir until smooth, take from 
the fire, add the fish, parsley and season- 
ing; mix carefully that the fish may not 
become stringy. Fill the greased shells, 
brush over with beaten egg; cover with 
bread crumbs and brown in a quick oven. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One pound can of salmon, one cup of 
milk, two level tablespoonfuls of butter, 
three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, one level 
teaspoonful of salt, three shakes of cay- 
enne pepiper. Remove the bone and skin 
from the salmon. Place the milk in a 
double boiler. Rub the butter and flour 
together and add to the boiling milk, stir- 
ring until it thickens. Add to the salmon 
the salt, pepper, chopped parsley and lem- 
on juice ; then pour the cream sauce over 
the salmon, stirring the whole together 



24 Popular Dishes. 

until thoroughly mixed. Spread out on 
a platter to cool. When thoroughly chill- 
ed roll with the hands into cylinder-shaped 
croquettes of suitable size, roll them in 
fine bread crumbs, then in a beaten egg, 
and again in coarser bread crumbs. Fry 
in deep fat. 

SALMON WITH SAUCE HOL- 
LANDAISE. 

Cover a can of salmon with boiling 
water and allow it to remain over a mod- 
erate fire for about twent}^ minutes. In 
the meanwhile make the sauce. Remove 
the can of salmon from the hot water; 
open the can and turn the salmon onto a 
platter. Pour the sauce around and serve. 

ESCALOPED SALMON. 

One can of salmon, one and one-quar- 
ter cups of milk, one rounding tablespoon- 
ful each of butter and flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice, pepper to taste, one-third cup of 
dried bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter. Turn the salmon onto a 
dish and remove all skin and bone, break- 
ing as little as possible. Make a cream 
sauce of the milk, butter, flour, salt and 
pepper, add the lemon juice to the salmon. 
Arrange one-half of the salmon in a but- 
tered baking dish, sprinkle very lightly 



Fish. 25 

with salt and baste over it one-half of the 
cream sauce, arrange balance of salmon 
and cover with remaining sauce. Rub the 
melted butter thoroughly into the bread 
crumbs, spread them over the fish mix- 
ture and brown in a moderate oven. 

SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Drain a one-pound can of salmon, re- 
move the bones and skin and mince it hne ; 
add to it a level teaspoonful of salt, three 
shakes of cayenne, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, and one tablespoonful of fine- 
ly chopped parsley. Place in a double 
boiler one-half pint of milk; rub together 
two level tablespoonfuls of butter and 
three level tablespoonfuls of flour; stir 
these into the milk when it reaches boiling 
point, and continue stirring until it thick- 
ens. Pour this mixture over the salmon 
and stir until well mixed. Now add the 
w^ell-beaten yolks of three eggs, and last 
of all, the three whites beaten to a stiff 
froth. Put into individual molds and 
bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 

SALMON TIMBALES. 

Drain the liquor from one can of sal- 
mon and remove all pieces of skin and 
bone ; mash fine with a fork and mix with 
three eggs beaten light without separat- 
ing, season w^ith salt and pepper, one tea- 



26 Popular Dishes. 

spoonful of lemon juice and a teaspoonful 
of parsley chopped fine; place in greased 
individual molds, place in a baking pan 
and pour in water until the moulds are 
two-thirds covered, cover with greased 
paper and bake in a moderate oven for 1 5 
minues. Serve with a half pint of cream 
sauce, to which has been added the yolk 
of one egg just before removing the sauce 
from the fire. 

LOBSTER TIMBALES. 

One can of lobster or two two-pound 
fresh lobsters, one cup of stale bread 
crumbs, one cup of milk, half cup of 
cream, four teaspoonfuls of essence of 
anchovy, level teaspoonful of salt, few 
grains of cayenne and the whites of six 
eggs. Chop the lobster fine; place the 
milk and bread crumbs in a saucepan and 
cook to a paste, add the cream, anchovy, 
salt and pepper, add this to the lobster 
and stir in carefully the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff; turn into small timbale 
moulds, filling three-fourths full ; place in 
a pan of hot water; cover with buttered 
paper and bake twenty minutes. Serve 
with lobster sauce. 

BAKED OYSTERS AND 
MACARONI. 

Break quarter of a pound of macaroni 
into small pieces and boil in plenty of salt- 



Fish. 27 

ed water for twenty-five minutes or until 
tender ; drain. Scald one pint of oysters in 
their own liquor and drain. Grease a bak- 
ing dish ; put in a layer of macaroni, then 
a layer of oysters, and season with salt 
and pepper; continue until all are used, 
having the last layer macaroni. Pour 
over this one cup of cream sauce and 
sprinkle over the top one-third cup of stale 
bread crumbs into which has been rubbed 
two tablespoon fuls of melted butter, and 
bake in a quick oven for about twenty 
minutes. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select large oysters, drain them and 
wash thoroughly, drain again and wipe 
perfectly dry with soft linen cloth, sprin- 
kle lightly with salt, roll in bread crumbs, 
cover with egg and cover again with bread 
crumbs. Place three at a time in a frying 
basket ; immerse in hot fat and fry until a 
nice brown; drain on paper and serve at 
once. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

One pint of oysters, one and one-half 
cups of milk, one rounding tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour, add salt and cay- 
enne to taste. Drain the oysters, saving 
the liquor, wash thoroughly and drain 



28 Popular Dishes. 

again. Put the milk over the fire in a 
double boiler, rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, add them to the scalded milk and 
stir until it thickens. Put the oyster liquor 
over the fire, when it reaches boiling point, 
remove the scum carefully and add the 
oysters, put them over a hot fire, watch 
carefully and stir occasionally. When the 
edges curl, turn at once into the cream 
sauce, add the salt and cayenne and serve. 



ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of soft 
bread crumbs, one-quarter cup of butter, 
one-quarter cup of oyster liquor or cream, 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain the oysters, wash and drain 
again. Put the oyster liquor over the fire,, 
when it reaches the boiling point remove 
the scum ; melt the butter and rub it well 
into the bread crumbs ; put a layer of these 
in a shallow baking dish, arrange over 
them a layer of oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, spread over them one-half the 
remaining bread crumbs, arrange over this 
the balance of the oysters, season and put 
the remaining crumbs on top, add care- 
fully the liquor or cream and bake in a 
hot oven about twenty minutes. 

To have these perfect only two layers 
of oysters should be put into the pan. 



Fish. 29 

PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Drain any number of oysters required 
and throw them into cold water for a mo- 
ment, then drain again. Wipe each oys- 
ter carefully on a soft linen cloth, slice 
some bacon as thin as possible, allowing 
a slice for each oyster. Place a slice of 
bacon on the palm of the hand, put an 
oyster on it and fold the bacon in such a 
Avay that the ends come together ; then run 
an ordinary wooden toothpick through 
both the bacon and oyster. Place a few 
at a time in a hot skillet, brown first on 
one side and then on the other. Serve hot. 



SWEETBREADS AND OYSTERS. 
MEXICAN STYLE. 

Soak and blanch one large pair of 
sweetbreads for one hour, cut into three- 
fourths inch cubes with a silver knife, re- 
moving as far as possible the skin and lit- 
tle pipes. Drain three dozen fine oysters, 
wash thoroughly and drain again. Place 
the oyster liquor (first drained off) into 
an agate stew pan, let come to boiling 
point, skim carefully, then drop in the 
cubes of sweetbreads. Cut one-half cup 
of buttter into small pieces, roll each in 
flour and add also, if convenient, three ta- 
blespoons of veal or chicken gravy. Let 



30 Popular Dishes. 

simmer gently until sweetbreads are ten- 
der — ten or fifteen minutes — then add 
one-fourth cup or more of good cream, 
salt and red pepper to taste, and when 
steaming hot add the drained oysters, stir 
gently until edges curl. Serve at once on 
toast, or in hot dish. 



KEBOBBED OYSTERS. 

Drain 50 oysters. Boil the liquor, skim 
and strain and stand aside until wanted. 
Take the white part from one bunch of 
celery and slice it very fine, chop sufficient 
parsley to make two tablespoonfuls. 
Spread out on the board about a pint of 
stale bread crumbs, beat four eggs, add to 
them about four tablespoonfuls ( f oyster 
liquor. Now dip each oyster, first in the 
egg and then into the crumbs. Arrange 
them neatly over the bottom of a baking 
dish, crowding them just a little; sprinkle 
over them salt, pepper, celery and parsley ; 
then dip again and put over another layer 
of oysters ; season, add parsley and celery 
and continue until the oysters are all used, 
having the last layer oysters. Cut a table- 
spoonful of butter into pieces and put 
them over the top. Pour one-half cup of 
oyster liquor over the whole. Bake in a 
quick oven 20 minutes. Serve smoking 
hot. 



Fish. 31 

OYSTERS AU GRATIN. 

Drain 25 oysters, put into a saucepan 
two level tablespoonfuls of butter, stir 
over the fire ; add two level tablespoonfuls 
of flour and rub together until smooth; 
add to this one cup of milk and stir until 
it bubbles ; add half a teaspoonful of salt 
and a speck of cayenne, grease some escal- 
op shells lightly with butter, place three 
or four oysters in each, cover with cream 
sauce, then sprinkle with fine dried bread 
crumbs which have been moistened with 
some melted butter. Place in a quick oven 
until a delicate brown and serve at once. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

For each person allow about five small 
oysters, which should be drained, washed 
in cold water and carefully drained again, 
then set in a very cold place. At serving 
time dispose in claret glasses. Pour over 
each two teaspoons of sauce made by com- 
bining two tablespoons of Harvey sauce, 
four tablespoons of tomato catsup, one 
teaspoon of pepper sauce, one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, and two tablespoons of lem- 
on juice. 

If preferred, this may be served in cups 
made of small, firm tomatoes ; when so 
served, place each tomato on a pretty let- 
tuce leaf, or in a nest made of head lettuce, 
or garnish with parsley. 



32 Popular Dishes. 

CLAM COCKTAILS. 

IMake the same as oyster cocktails, 
using very small clams. Omit the wash- 
ing. 

ESCALOPED CLAMS. 

Twenty-five clams, one and one-half 
cups of milk, three level tablespoonfuls 
each of butter and flour, one and one- 
quarter teaspoonfuls onion juice, one-half 
cup buttered bread crumbs, salt and pe*p- 
per to taste. 

Put the clams into a pan with just a lit- 
tle water. Place in a hot oven and when 
they open remove from the oven and take 
the clams from the shells, saving the 
liquor. Chop them fine, put them with 
the liquor and if necessary about one- 
fourth cup of water over the fire and al- 
low them to simmer gently for ten min- 
utes. Put the butter into a saucepan, 
place over the fire and when melted (do 
not let it brown) add the flour, mix, then 
add the milk and stir until it bubbles, re- 
move from the fire, add the onion juice, 
salt, pepper and cooked clams. 

Put into shells, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs and bake in a hot oven until the 
crumbs are a nice brown. 

SARDINE BALLS. 

Wipe the oil from twelve sardines, and 
mash to a fine paste with the hard-boiled 



Fish. 33 

yolks of three eggs, add one raw ^gg 
yolk, a dash of paprika, and two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. Soak one- 
half cup of soft bread crumbs in one- 
fourth cup of rich milk. Combine the two 
mixtures, press all through a vegetable 
press or coarse sieve. Form into balls the 
size of walnuts, cover with an Qgg diluted 
with one tablespoonful of water, roll in 
bread crumbs and fry in deep fat, in a 
frying basket. Serve on a dainty doily, 
garnish with parsley and lemon. 



fIDeata. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

One quart of cooked chicken cut into 
half-inch dice, three hard boiled eggs, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of ground mace, one- 
eighth teaspoonful of ground cloves, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth pound 
of butter, one-half cup of cream, salt and 
cayenne to taste and one gill of sherry. 
Place the cream in a double boiler; rub 
the butter and flour together, add to the 
cream, stir until it thickens ; add the hard 
boiled yolks, which have been pressed 
through a vegetable press or worked to a 
smooth paste, also the mace, cloves, salt 
and pepper; then stir in the chicken dice 
and when thoroughly heated add the sher- 
ry and serve immediately. Boiled or 



34 Popular Dishes. 

baked calf's liver is delicious served in the 
same manner as chicken. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Trim the fat from a pair of sweet- 
breads, place in a saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, add a small piece of celery 
and part of a bay leaf, simmer gently for 
fifteen minutes, remove from the water, 
and throw into cold water for ten minutes 
to blanch. Now take from the water, re- 
move any loose pieces of fat and any ob- 
jectionable part; lard the sweetbreads, 
place in a granite or earthenware baking 
dish, dredge w^ith salt, pepper and flour, 
cover the bottom of the pan with stock or 
water, and bake in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour, or until a nice 
brown, basting every ten minutes. When 
done, place on a platter, and arrange 
around them hot peas from which the wa- 
ter has been drained, and seasoned with 
salt, pepper and butter. 

PILAU OF MUTTON. 

Take one and one-half pounds of mut- 
ton from the neck, cut into slices about 
three-fourths of an inch thick and about 
two inches in size; cover with boiling 
water, boil rapidly for two or three min- 
utes, then place over a more moderate fire 
and simmer gently for about three-quar- 



Meats. 35 

ters of an hour, then add a level teas,poon- 
ful of salt, a little white pepper and a me- 
dium sized onion chopped fine. Wash 
three-fourths of a cup of rice, sprinkle 
over the top of the meat, and simmer 
gently until the rice is tender, about three- 
quarters of an hour. At serving time turn 
out on to a platter and cover with one- 
half pint of tomato sauce. 



CURRY OF MUTTON. 

Any piece of cold roast or boiled mut- 
ton may be used for this dish. If none is 
at hand, boil until tender about one and 
one-half pounds of mutton, and when ten- 
der place in a skillet two level tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, allow it to melt, and when 
hot add one large onion cut into very thin 
slices or chopped fine, and keep it stirred 
until a delicate brown; now sprinkle over 
it two level teaspoonfuls of curry powder 
and two level tablespoonfuls of flour, stir 
until well mixed and then add one-half 
pint of the broth in which the mutton was 
boiled, stir until it thickens, then add the 
meat, cut into rather small pieces; mix 
well with the gravy, add half a lemon 
sliced, then cover and let simmer gently 
for about ten minutes. Heap boiled rice 
in the center of a platter and arrange the 
curried mutton around it, or they may be 
served in separate dishes. 



2,6 Popular Dishes. 

BAKED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Take a veal steak about three-fourths 
of an inch thick; butter the bottom of a 
roasting pan, sprinkle it with chopped on- 
ion, salt and pepper, put the veal steak on 
top of this, sprinkle thickly v^ith chopped 
onion, parsley, salt and pepper, cover with 
a tablespoonful of butter, cut into small 
pieces, and bake in a moderate oven about 
half an hour. When done take from the 
pan and put on a platter ready for serving. 
Place in the baking pan a rounding table- 
spoonful of butter and a rounding table- 
spoonful of flour; mix thoroughly, then 
add half a pint of water or stock, stir until 
thickened and add half a teaspoonful of 
salt and four shakes of white pepper. 
Pour this sauce around the steak and 
serve. 

NUT ROLL. 

Take a thin slice of veal, sprinkle with 
chopped almonds and English walnuts, 
roll and tie securely with twine, place in 
a saucepan, nearly cover with boiling 
stock or water, add half a bay leaf, a stalk 
of celery and a slice or two of onion, sim- 
mer gently until done (about one and one- 
half hours), adding salt and pepper at the 
end of the hour. When done take from 
the saucepan, and when cold remove the 
string. Cut into thin slices and serve wHh 
alternate slices of tomato aspic. 



Meats. 37 

TASSE HAM. 

Six hard boiled eggs, one-third cup of 
bread crumbs, one-third cup of milk, one 
cup of cooked ham chopped fine. Remove 
the shells from the eggs, shave a thin 
slice from each end, cut in half and care- 
fully remove the yolks, put where they 
will keep warm. Cook the bread crumbs 
and milk together until they form a paste, 
add the ham, season lightly with mustard 
and cayenne ; beat one egg and add grad- 
ually until the mixture can be molded into 
balls ; now form into balls the size of the 
yolks and place one in each cup. Make 
one pint of cream sauce;, arrange the 
stuffed whites around the edge of a hot 
platter, pour the sauce in the center and 
press the yolks which have been seasoned 
with salt and pepper, through a vegetable 
press over the cream sauce. Place in the 
oven a few moments; garnish wnth pars- 
ley and serve at once. 

ITALIAN HAM TOAST. 

Three hard boiled eggs, one cup of 
chopped ham, six slices of toast cut round, 
one-half pint of cream sauce. Chop whites 
of eggs fine and press the yolks through a 
vegetable press; mix part of the cream 
sauce with the chopped whites and pour 
the rest onto a hot platter; spread the 
slices of toast with the creamed whites, 



38 Popular Dishes. 

then the chopped ham and last with the 
sifted yolks ; sprinkle any surplus ham and 
sifted yolks over the cream sauce; place 
the slices of toast on top and warm in the 
oven a few moments. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Put one pound of round steak through 
a meat chopper, then add to it one level 
teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, one-half teaspoonful of on- 
ion juice and a level tablespoon ful of 
chopped parsley. Form into six steaks, 
being careful not to have the edges thin- 
ner than the center of the steak. Broil or 
saute and serve with tomato sauce. 

BEEF LOAF. 

One pound of uncooked beef chopped 
fine, yolk of one egg, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, two tablespoon fuls of bread crumbs, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, three dashes of black 
pepper and a half teaspoonful of onion 
juice. Mix all the ingredients together, 
then form into a roll about six inches 
long; wrap in buttered paper; place in a 
baking pan and bake in a quick oven about 
thirty minutes; baste every five minutes 
with one-fourth of a cup of butter melted 
in one cup of boiling water; serve with 
brown mushroom sauce poured around it. 



Meats. 39 

BEEF LOAF NO. 2. 

Two cups of lean round steak ground 
very fine, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
melted, one-half cup of fine, soft bread 
crumbs, tw^o tablespoonfuls of Worcester- 
shire sauce, one tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, two teaspoonfuls celery 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, 
black or red pepper to taste. The meat 
should be entirely free from gristle. Mix 
all the ingredients together thoroughly. 
Form into a compact loaf with the hands, 
making it about six inches long. Place in 
a baking pan, pour into the pan barely 
enough boiling water to cover the bottom 
of the pan. Bake in a hot oven for about 
thirty minutes. Baste every five minutes, 
adding water a little at a time as needed. 
When done remove from the pan, place in 
the pan a rounding tablespoonful of but- 
ter, when melted add a rounding table- 
spoonful of flour. Mix, away from the 
fire, until smooth, add one cup of boiling 
water, half a teaspoonful of salt and a lit- 
tle pepper. Place over the fire and siir 
constantly until it bubbles. Serve gravy 
in separate dish. If preferred a tomato 
sauce ma}^ be served instead of the brown 
gravy. 

LITTLE VEAL ROLLS. 

Have slices cut from the leg of veal as 
thinly as possible. If thicker than one- 



40 Popular Dishes. 

fourth inch, pound gently until reduced 
to that thickness. Trim, removing far, 
skin and bone. Cut into strips about two 
inc^ies wide and four inches long. 

Pass any trimmings which may be left 
over, both lean and nice pieces of fat, 
through a meat chopper, or chop fine in a 
bowl, adding for every five rolls two 
ounces of salt pork. Chop this also. To 
this amount add one-half cup of soft stale 
bread crumbs, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one-half teaspoon of lemon juice, one- 
fourth teaspoon of onion juice, one level 
teaspoon of poultry seasoning, or parsley 
and a little pepper. Moisten with water, 
or water and egg mixed. Cover each strip 
with this mixture, being careful that it 
does not come close to the edge. Roll 
very firmly, tie with string. Place in a 
skillet some butter or drippings. When 
hot, add the rolls and brown each a deli- 
cate brown all over. 

Transfer to a saucepan having a secure 
cover. Add to the fat remaining in the 
pan enough butter or beef drippings to 
make three level tablespoon fuls, stir into 
this the same amount of flour, mix well, 
add one and one-half cups of stock or 
water, stir until it bubbles, add one-half 
teaspoon of salt, and a little pepper. Pour 
this over the rolls. Cover and simmer 
gently for about an hour, or until tender. 
Some finely chopped onion may be brown- 
ed in the fat before adding flour, if de- 



Meats. 41 

sired. When done, lift carefully from the 
saucepan, remove the strings, arrange on 
a platter and pour over them the sauce, 
which should be strained. 



nDeat an& jfiab Saucee* 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Two level tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
level tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half cup 
of stock, one-half cup of cream, yolk of 
one egg, one-half teaspoonful of salt and 
four shakes of white pepper. Melt the 
butter, being careful not to brown it, then 
add the flour and mix until smooth. Add 
the stock and cream and stir continually 
until it boils. Take from the fire, add the 
salt, pepper and yolk of the egg well 
beaten. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Place half a pint of milk in a double 
boiler; rub together a rounding table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour, stir this 
into the boiling milk and stir until it thick- 
ens ; add half teaspoonful of salt and four 
dashes of white pepper. Use as soon as 
possible after it is made. 

CREAM OF HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Measure five level tables,poonfuls of 
prepared horseradish, pressing out as 



42 Popular Dishes. 

much vinegar as possible. To this add 
one- fourth teaspoonf ul of salt and yolk of 
one tgg. Whip to a stiff froth, five table- 
spoonfuls of rich cream and stir this grad- 
ually into the mixture. 

TOMATO CREAM SAUCE. 

Place over the fire one-half can of to- 
matoes, add two slices of onion, a piece 
of bay leaf and a stalk of celery, simmer 
for ten minutes and strain. Into another 
saucepan put two rounding- tabl spoonfuls 
of butter, melt it and add two rou-iding 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stir until blended ; 
add one cup of milk and stir until it bub- 
bles ; add one level teaspoonful of salt and 
a few grains of cayenne. Measure one 
cup of the strained tomato, stir into it 
one-fourth teaspoonful of soda : add this 
to the cream sauce and when hot serve at 
once. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Half a cup of butter, yolks of two eggs, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of 
cayenne, one-third cup of boiling water, 
one-third cup of lobster meat. Cream the 
butter, add the o^gg yolks, beat well, add 
the salt and cayenne and very slowly the 
lemon juice, then the boiling water, cook 
over hot water until slightly thick, add 
the lobster meat cut into small pieces. 



Meat and Fish Sauces. 43 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Melt two rounding tablespoon fuls of 
butter, add one rounding tablespoon ful of 
flour, mix until smooth; pour over them 
one cup of boiling water and stir until 
thickened: then add the juice of half a 
lemon, half a teaspoonful of salt, speck of 
cayenne and just before removing from 
the fire stir in the beaten yolk of one egg. 

FRENCH SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

One-half cup of butter, the yolks of two 
eggs, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a 
few grains of cayenne, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, and one-third of a cup of 
boiling water. 

Cream the butter, add the seasoning. 
the egg yolks, and the lemon juice, drop 
by drop, and last the boiling water. Cook 
over boiling water until it thickens. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Place half a can of tomatoes over the 
fire, add to them one small onion, one 
small bay leaf, a sprig of parsley and a 
blade of mace, and simmer gently for ten 
minutes, then remove from the fire : press 
through a colander and then strain 
through a sieve to remove the seeds. Melt 
one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, 



44 Popular Dishes. 

add one tablespoonful of flour, rub to- 
gether until well mixed, add the strained 
tomatoes and stir a moment, season with 
half a teaspoonful of salt and four shakes 
of pepper and serve at once. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

One rounding tablespoon each of butter 
and flour, one cup (half pint) of soup 
stock or water, one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon of white or black pep- 
per, one tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, one-half pint of canned mushrooms. 

Melt the butter, stir until brown, add 
the flour and stir until a nice brown. Add 
the stock and stir until it boils. Add sea- 
sonings and last of all the mushrooms. 
Serve as soon as the latter are heated 
through. 

CREAM SAUCE WITH 
MUSHROOMS. 

One cup of milk or cream, one round- 
ing tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter 
saltspoonful of white pepper, three-quar- 
ters cup mushrooms cut into quarters. 

Melt the butter without browning, add 
the flour ; mix well, add the milk and stir 
constantly over the fire until it bubbles; 
add the salt, pepper and mushrooms; stir 
until it bubbles again and serve at once. 



Meat and Fish Sauces. 45 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Place in a saucepan two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of butter, heat just enough to 
melt it, and add one rounding tablespoon- 
ful of flour. Stir until mixed ; then pour 
over half a pint of boiling water. Stir 
over the fire until it boils, add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and pepper to taste. 

Cntreee. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 

Take the white meat of a three-pound 
cooked chicken ; chop it very fine. Meas- 
use; it should measure just one pint; now 
put a rounding tablespoon ful of butter 
into a saucepan; when melted add the 
same amount of flour; stir until mixed, 
add one-half pint of cream, stir until thick 
and smooth; take from the fire and add 
one-half cup of fine bread crumbs (not 
dried), beat just a moment; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper, a 
level tablespoonful of finely chopped pars- 
ley and the well beaten yolks of two eggs ; 
then stir in the chicken; beat the whites 
of four eggs to a very stiff froth and add 
to the mixture carefully. This may be 
baked in individual moulds or in a baking 
dish. If in individual moulds, bake like 
chicken timbales; if in a baking dish, set 
in a pan of hot water, cover with buttered 



46 Popular Dishes. 

paper and bake twenty or twenty-five min- 
utes in a quick oven. Serve immediately. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One pint of chopped chicken, one-half 
pint milk (or better, one-half cup of 
cream and one-half cup of chicken stock), 
one rounding tablespoonful of butter, two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of flour, one level 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon ful 
of onion juice, one grating of nutmeg, 
one-quarter teaspoonful of white pcipper. 

Chop the chicken fine, put the milk or 
cream and stock over the fire in a double 
boiler, rub the butter and flour together, 
add them to the scalded milk. Add all 
the seasonings to the chopped chicken and 
pour over it the cream sauce. Mix well 
and turn out on a platter to cool. When 
quite cold, form in cylinder-shaped cro- 
quettes, roll first in fine bread crumbs, 
cover with tgg (diluted with water in pro- 
portion of one tablespoonful of water to 
each tgg) then roll in coarse bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, using a frying 
basket and frying only two at a time. This 
will make seven croquettes. 

CHICKEN OYSTERS. 

Remove the skin from a boiled chicken, 
cut up as for fricassee and then into pieces 
the size and shape of oysters. Dip each 



Entrees. 47 

piece in tgg, cover well with bread crumbs 
and fry like oysters. Serve with border 
of peas. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. 

Take the raw breast of a three-pound 
chicken (it should weigh about one-half 
pound), remove the skin, chop it very fine 
and then pound to a paste with a potato 
masher. Now add, just a little at a time, 
half a cup of cream and when thoroughly 
mixed press through a vegetable press or 
colander, add, one at a time, the unbeaten 
whites of three eggs, stirring well all the 
while, a scant teaspoonful of salt, a little 
white or cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley and last of all stir 
in the well beaten whites of two eggs. 
Place in buttered timbale moulds, filling 
them about two-thirds full. Place in a 
pan containing boiling water (the water 
should come up about level with the chick- 
en mixture), cover with paper and bake 
from twenty to thirty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve with cream sauce with 
or without mushrooms. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES NO. 2. 

Chop fine one-half pound of chicken 
breast, pound to a paste and press through 
a colander ; cook to a paste one cup of soft 
bread crumbs and one-half cup of milk; 
remove from the fire; add one level tea- 



48 Popular Dishes. 

spoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of 
white pepper and the chicken. Fold in 
carefully the stiffly beaten whites of five 
eggs. Put into timbale cups ; set the cups 
in a pan, surround with boiling water, 
cover with buttered paper and cook in a 
moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes, 
or until firm to the touch. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES NO. 3. 

Put into a saucepan one-half cup of 
chicken stock, or boiling water, one round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup 
of soft bread crumbs, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and pepper to taste. Place over the 
fire and cook to a paste ; take from the fire, 
add two eggs well beaten; mix, then add 
one pint of cold cooked chicken chopped 
very fine and one level tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Mix well and press 
into buttered timbale moulds, about three- 
fourths filling them. Finish same as 
Chicken Timbale No. i . Serve with cream 
sauce, adding peas if wished. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

One pint sweetbreads (picked apart), 
one tgg, one-half pint of cream or milk, 
one rounding tablespoonful of butter, two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of flour, one level 
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, a 
slight grating of nutmeg. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, then cover 



Entrees. 49 

with boiling water to which add a level 
teaspoonful of salt and same of lemon 
juice to a quart of water, add half a bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and a small piece of 
celery, or a little celery salt. Simmer 
gently for twenty minutes. Remove from 
the water and cover with cold water. 
When cold pick apart and measure, reject- 
ing as much of the membrane as possible. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the 
flour; mix well, add the milk or cream, 
stir until it bubbles. Add all the season- 
ings and the yolk of egg: cook just a mo- 
ment longer and pour over the sweetbread. 
Mix well and turn out to cool. When 
very cold mould as desired, roll in fine 
bread crumbs, cover with egg (to which 
has been added a tablespoonful of hot wa- 
ter to each egg), roll in coarser bread 
crumbs. Fry two at a time in a frying 
basket in sufficient very hot fat to com- 
pletely cover, drain on soft paper and 
serve with cream sauce with mushrooms. 

CHEESE TIMBALES. 

Place in a saucepan two rounding ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter; stir over the fire 
until melted; add two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of flour and stir until blended. 
Add one-half cup each of milk, cream and 
white stock; stir until it bubbles, season 
with cayenne or paprika to taste and one- 
half teaspoonful of salt; add one-half 
4 



50 Popular Dishes. 

pound of cheese grated or chopped fine. 
When cheese is melted, add gradually 
four yolks and three whole eggs, well 
beaten together. Pour into buttered tim- 
bale moulds; place these in a pan, sur- 
round with boiling water ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven until firm. Do not allow the 
water surrounding them to boil. Serve at 
once with cream or tomato sauce. 

TIMBALES OF SALMON. 

One pound raw halibut, two ounces soft 
bread crumbs, one-half cup of milk, one 
cup canned salmon, one-half cup of milk, 
one level tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour. Pound the halibut to a paste and 
press through a wire sieve. Put one- 
half cup of milk and the bread crumbs 
over the fire and stir to a paste ; season 
with salt and pepper and add the halibut ; 
mix well. Cover the bottoms of timbale 
molds with paper and brush the sides 
with melted butter. Line the bottoms and 
sides with the paste made from the hali- 
but, crumbs and milk. Have ready 
a cream sauce made of the remaining 
half cup of milk, butter and flour ; season 
with salt and pepper ; add the salmon care- 
fully to the sauce and almost fill the lined 
timbale moulds. Cover with the halibut 
mixture. Place in a baking pan, surround 
with boiling water, cover with buttered 
paper and bake about twenty minutes. 
Turn from molds and serve with cream 
sauce. 



Entrees. 5 1 

TOMATO TIMBALES. 

Beat together until frothy three whole 
eggs and four yolks. Add to them half a 
cup of cream, half a teaspoon of salt and 
the same of onion juice, a saltspoonful 
each of soda and pa,prika and one tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Mix well and and add 
one cup of thick, strained tomato (puree). 
Stir until mixed and pour into buttered 
timbale moulds. Place these in a pan, 
surround with boiling water and bake in 
a moderate oven until firm, being careful 
not to allow the water in the pan to boil. 
When done turn from the moulds and 
serve either with cream sauce, to which 
has been added one cup of grated or 
chipped cheese, to each pint of sauce, or 
if preferred, cream sauce plain. 

VEAL BALLS IN CURRY SAUCE. 

Pass one and one-half pounds of veal 
and one-fourth pound of salt pork through 
a meat chopper twice. Add one and one- 
half cups of cracker crumbs, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one tablespoon ful of 
lemon juice, two eggs well beaten and 
one-half cup of stock, water or cream. 

Mix well and shape in balls the size of 
walnuts. Brow^i all over in salt pork fat, 
or butter. Remove the balls to a saucepan 
having a tight cover. Add sufficient fat 



52 Popular Dishes. 

to that in the pan to make four level table- 
spoonfuls; add one good-sized onion 
sliced thin; stir until a very delicate 
brown ; add one level tablespoonful of cur- 
ry powder and two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; mix well and add one pint of 
stock or water and one level teaspoonful 
of salt. Pour over the balls, which should 
be half covered with the sauce; cover 
closely and simmer gently for forty min- 
utes. Serve with boiled rice heaped in the 
center of a platter and the balls arranged 
as a border or mould rice in a border 
mould, turn out and heap the balls in the 
center. Pour sauce over the balls. Two 
slices of lemon added about ten minutes 
before senang is an improvement. 

(Ebee^e. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, then add two cups of grated cheese, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a little cay- 
enne. Form into balls the size of marbles ; 
roll in fine bread crumbs and fry in a fry- 
ing basket until a nice brown. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
one gill of milk, two ounces of bread, tw^o 
tablespoonfuls of butter, yolks of two 



Cheese. 53 

eggs, whites of three eggs, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt and a few grains of cay- 
enne. Put the bread and milk on to boil, 
stir and boil until smooth, then add the 
cheese and butter ; stir over the fire for one 
minute, take off, add seasoning and the 
yolks of the eggs ; beat the whites to a stiff 
froth and stir them in carefully. Pour 
into a greased baking dish and bake fif- 
teen minutes in a quick oven. 



' CHEESE CUSTARDS. 

One cup of milk, one level tablespoonful 
of corn starch, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
soda, one rounding tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of paprika or 
a speck of cayenne, three-quarters cup of 
grated cheese. 

Put the milk into a double boiler, add 
two tablespoonfuls of milk to the corn 
starch and add to the scalded milk, dis- 
solve the soda in a teaspoonful of boiling 
water and add. Cook about five minutes. 
Remove from the fire, add the cheese and 
butter and when these are melted, the sea- 
soning and the eggs, which have been 
beaten until frothy. Pour into buttered 
custard cups, bake in a moderate oven un- 
til well puffed up and brown and serve at 
once. 



54 Popular Dishes. 

CREAMED MACARONI WITH 
CHEESE. 

Break one-fourth pound of macaroni 
into pieces about one inch long, drop into 
two quarts of boihng salted water and boil 
about twenty minutes. While it is boiling 
grate or chop fine one-fourth pound of 
cheese. Also make a cream sauce. Place 
half a pint of milk in a double boiler, rub 
together one rounding tablespoonful each 
of butter and flour, add to the milk when 
boiling and stir about two minutes. Add 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a speck of 
cayenne. When the macaroni is tender 
drain it and add to the cream sauce, stir 
until mixed, add the grated cheese and 
stir until dissolved. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Boil macaroni the same as for creamed 
macaroni with cheese. While boiling place 
half pint of milk in a double boiler; rub 
together a rounding tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour, add to the boiling milk, 
stir until it thickens ; add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a dash of cayenne ; then stir 
in a cup of grated cheese ; stir until cheese 
is melted : when the macaroni is done, 
drain. Place in a baking dish, pour over it 
the sauce, and sprinkle with one-third of a 
cup of fine dried bread crumbs into which 
has been rubbed two tablespoonfuls of 



C lie CSC. 55 

melted butter; place in a moderate oven 
and bake for about fifteen minutes or un- 
til the crumbs are a nice brown. 

MACARONI A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare the macaroni as for creamed 
macaroni with cheese. When boiled have 
ready a tomato sauce, made of one-half 
can of tomatoes (see recipe for tomato 
sauce). Add the macaroni to the sauce, 
pour into serving dish and sprinkle over 
it one cup of grated, or chopped cheese. 
The heat in the sauce will melt the cheese. 



FRENCH OMELET. 

Put three eggs and three tablespoonfuls 
of water into a bowl and beat just enough 
to mix the yolks and whites; put a level 
tablespoonful of butter into an omelet pan, 
shake it over the fire until melted but not 
brown, pour in the eggs and shake con- 
stantly over a quick fire until set ; take 
from the fire and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and with a limber knife roll from 
you and turn out onto a hot platter. It is 
better to make several small omelets than 
one large one. They should be served as 
soon as turned out of the pan, as they be- 
come tough if allowed to stand. 



56 Popular Dishes. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Put three eggs and three tablespoonfuls 
of cold water into a bowl and beat just 
enough to thoroughly mix the yolks and 
whites. Put a level tablespoonful of but- 
ter into an omelet ,pan, shake it over the 
fire until melted but not brown. Pour in 
the eggs and shake constantly over a quick 
fire until set. Take from the fire and 
quickly sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
spread over it one-half cup of grated 
cheese, roll and turn out into a hot dish. 
It is better to make several small omelets 
than one large one. They should be served 
as soon as turned from the pan, as they 
become tough if allowed to stand. 

EGGS AU GRATIN. 

One heaping cup of soft bread crumbs, 
one-half cup of grated cheese, one round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter (softened), 
one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, a grating 
of nutmeg and three shakes of pepper, 
yolks of three eggs, eight whole eggs. 

Mix the crumbs, cheese, salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, butter and the three egg yolks to- 
gether, spread out on bottom of a butter- 
ed pudding dish (or a platter) and place 
in a hot oven until it begins to color. Take 
from the oven, break eight eggs over the 
mixture, sprinkle with cheese and return 
to the oven until eggs are cooked. Serve 
immediately. 



Eggs. 57 

POACHED EGGS WITH TOMATO 
hAUCE. 

Six eggs, six slices of toast cut round, 
one-half pint tomato sauce, one-half cup 
of grated cheese, salt and pepper. 

Have ready the tomato sauce and keep 
hot over hot water. Make the toast, trim 
it round, butter lightly and put where it 
will keep hot. Poach the eggs carefully 
and as you lift them trim off any irregular 
parts. Pour the sauce into a hot platter, 
arrange the toast on it and place an egg 
on each piece of toast, sprinkle lightly 
with salt and pepper, then with grated 
cheese, and put into a hot oven for a min- 
ute or two, then serve. 

FROTHED EGGS. 

Toast a good-sized slice of bread and 
cut round, butter lightly ; separate an egg, 
leaving the yolk in half of the shell, add 
a tiny pinch of salt to the white and beat 
vmtil very light and stiff; heap onto the 
piece of toast ; make a slight depression 
in the center and drop the yolk quickly 
and carefully into it ; place in the oven for 
about two minutes or until the white be- 
gins to change color ; remove and serve at 
once with a small piece of butter placed 
over the yolk, and a light sprinkling of 
salt. 



58 Popular Dishes. 

EGG TIMBALES. 

Beat four eggs without separating, add 
to them one cup of milk or cream, half 
teaspoonful of salt and four dashes of 
pepper. Butter ordinary custard cups, 
pour in the mixture, stand in a pan of boil- 
ing water and cook in the oven slowly 
until the timbales are "set" in the center. 
Turn into a hot dish and pour around 
cream sauce. 

EGG FONDUE. 

Beat six eggs just enough to thorough- 
ly mix, add to them four rounding table- 
spoonfuls or half cup of chopped cheese, 
one-half cup of cream, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt and dash of cayenne ; put 
one rounding tablespoonful of butter into 
a saucepan and allow it to melt but not to 
color. Pour in the tgg and cheese mix- 
ture and stir constantly until smooth and 
jelly-like. Serve on buttered toast. 

SCALLOPED HAM AND EGGS. 

Boil six eggs until hard ; make one pint 
of cream sauce; chop fine one cup of 
boiled ham ; chop the ^gg whites fine and 
put the yolks through a vegetable press; 
put a layer of ham, then a layer of 
chopped whites into buttered scallop 
shells ; pour over some of the cream sauce ; 
then put a layer of ham and one also of 



Eggs. 59 

sifted yolks; cover again with sauce; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs moistened 
with melted butter ; place in the oven until 
a delicate brown. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

Eight slices of toast, yolks of five eggs, 
three-quarters cup of cream, one-quarter 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, an- 
chovy paste. 

Spread the toast lightly with butter and 
put where it will keep hot. Beat the yolks 
slightly, add to them gradually the cream 
and mix well, stir over hot water until 
consistency of mayonnaise, add the sea- 
soning. Spread the toast quickly with an- 
chovy paste and cover with the cooked 
mixture and serve at once. 

If preferred one anchovy for each me- 
dium-sized slice of toast may be mashed 
fine and used instead of the paste. 

Degetablee. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

Put into a medium-sized omelet pan 
enough fat salt pork to yield one-third cup 
of fat; remove the pieces of pork. Have 
ready two cups of finely chopped, cold 
boiled potatoes seasoned with salt and 
pepper; add them to the fat and stir con- 
stantlv over the fire for about two min- 



6o Popular Dishes. 

utes, then press gently to make them com- 
pact ; place where they will brown slowly. 
In using an uncovered gas range, place 
an asbestos mat under the pan and turn 
the flame as low as possible. When nice- 
ly browned, which will require fully fif- 
teen minutes, fold over like an omelet, 
turn onto a hot platter and serve. A lit- 
tle practice is necessary to do this well. 

DEVILED POTATOES. 

Four cold boiled potatoes, six hard- 
boiled eggs, one pint of cream sauce, one- 
third cup of dried bread crumbs, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Make a cream sauce of one pint of milk, 
two rounding tablespoonfuls each of but- 
ter and flour, one level teaspoonful of salt 
and one-half saltspoonful of white pepper. 
Cut eggs and potatoes in one-fourth inch 
slices. Mix the melted butter thoroughly 
through the bread crumbs. Put alternate 
layers of potato and egg into a baking 
dish, having the bottom layer of potatoes 
and sprinkle each layer of egg very lightly 
with salt and pepper. Pour the cream 
sauce over gradually; cover top with the 
buttered bread crumbs and bake until the 
crumbs are brown, 

POTATO PUFF. 

Two cups of hot, mashed potatoes, half 
a cup of hot milk, two eggs, two round- 



Vegetables. 6i 

ing tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Prepare the potatoes as for 
mashed potatoes, add the butter and milk, 
salt and pepper; then add the beaten 
yolks, and when thoroughly mixed stir in 
gently the well-beaten whites of the eggs. 
Place in a baking dish and bake in a quick 
oven until a delicate brown. 

POTATOES ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Take six good-sized, smooth potatoes. 
Bake about one hour. When done cut in 
two lengthways and with a spoon careful- 
ly scoop out the potato into a hot bowl. 
Mash fine and add two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of butter, about half a cup of 
hot milk, a rounding teaspoonful of salt, 
and white pepper to taste. Beat until 
very light and then add the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs. Stir in gradually. 
Fill the skins with this mixture, brush 
over with the yolk of the eggs and place 
in the oven until brown, about fifteen min- 
utes. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes into half inch cubes, 
cover them wath boiling salted water and 
simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain 
and turn into a vegetable dish, and to each 
pint of cubes allow half a pint of cream 
sauce. 

(See rule for cream sauce.) 



62 Popular Dishes. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Prepare a pint of potatoes as for cream- 
ed potatoes, place the potatoes in a baking 
dish, pour over them the cream sauce and 
cover with one-third of a cup of dry 
bread crumbs into which two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter has been thoroughly 
rubbed. Bake until brown. 

(Half a cup of grated cheese may be 
added to the cream sauce just before pour- 
ing over the potatoes.) 

SWEET POTATOES ON HALF 
SHELL. 

Select nicely shaped sweet potatoes of 
medium size. Clean carefully and bake; 
cut in half lengthwise ; carefully remove 
the pulp and put through a vegetable 
press; season with salt, butter and a little 
cream ; beat well ; refill the shells with this 
mixture, using a pastry bag and star tube. 
Sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, 
and return to the oven until thoroughly 
heated. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

Select medium-sized potatoes, boil in 
salted water until tender, not an instant 
longer, drain and quickly scrape off the 
skin ; cut in half, lengthwise ; arrange in a 
buttered dripping pan, spread liberally 
with butter and sprinkle liberally with 



Vegetables 63 

sugar. Bake in a rather hot oven until 
well browned, which will require thirty to 
forty minutes. Remove carefully with a 
limber knife. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash one cup of rice in three waters, 
add one-half teaspoonful of salt and pour 
over it one pint of boiling water. Place 
over a moderate fire, cover, and let boil 
gently until the water is all absorbed, then 
see that it is securely covered, place on a 
cooler part of the stove and allow it to 
steam for about fifteen minutes. Try it 
and see if it is perfectly tender ; if not, re- 
place the lid and let it stand five minutes 
longer, then partially remove the lid and 
allow the steam to escape for from five to 
ten minutes, then serve. Rice, when 
cooked in this way, should be tender and 
white and every grain standing separate 
from the rest. On no account stir the rice 
while cooking. 

SPINACH WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Place six eggs in a saucepan, cover with 
cold water and let it come to boiling point. 
Allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes, 
drain and cover with cold water and al- 
low it to stand until the eggs are cold. 
Take the leaves and tender stems from 
half a peck of spinach, wash carefully and 



6-}. Popular Dishes. 

drain, place in a saucepan, add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and one cup of boiling- 
water. Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. 
Drain carefully and press through a col- 
ander. Place in a saucepan, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of lem- 
on juice or vinegar and a little pepper. 
Put it where it will keep warm. 

Make a sauce as follows : Rub together 
two rounding tablespoonfuls of butter 
and one of flour. Pour over them one 
cupful of boiling water. Stir over the 
fire until it boils. Add one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, one-quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Re- 
move from the fire and stir in the beaten 
yolk of one egg. Remove the shells from 
the hard boiled eggs. Cut a thin slice 
from each end, then cut in two crosswise, 
removing the yolks, and place where they 
will keep warm. Now pour the sauce in- 
to a platter. Fill the cavities from which 
the yolks were taken with the hot spin- 
ach, heaping it and rounding nicely. 
Place each one when filled on the plat- 
ter in the sauce. When all are filled, sea- 
son the yolks with salt and pepper, put 
them into a vegetable press and press 
them through, decorating the entire dish 
with it. Place in a moderate oven just 
a few minutes, and serve. 



Vegetables. 65 

SPINACH WITH EGG. 

Wash one-half peck of spinach, dis- 
carding the coarser stems; place in a 
saucepan; s,prinkle over it a half tea- 
spoonful of salt; over this pour one cup 
of boiling water ; cover closely and let boil 
over a moderate fire for two minutes. 
Now to insure a good color, finish cook- 
ing without a cover, giving the spinach 
an occasional stir. The time required for 
cooking will depend very much upon the 
age of the spinach. When tender turn 
into a colander, drain and press well to 
remove all water, then cut fine, return to 
saucepan; add butter, pepper (salt if 
needed) and a teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Reheat and place in serving dish. 
Sprinkle over the top the chopped whites 
of two hard boiled eggs, then the yolks 
pressed through a vegetable press. Put 
into a hot oven for about two minutes 
before serving. 

CAULIFLOWER A LA HOL- 
LANDAISE. 

One medium sized cauliflower, one- 
half cup of butter, the yolks of two eggs, 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a few 
grains of cayenne, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, and one-third of a cup of 
boiling water. 

Soak the cauliflower in cold water, 

5 



66 Po pillar Dishes. 

head down, for one hour; then boil in 
boihng salted water, head up, until tender 
(about half an hour). Remove from the 
water, separate into pieces and cover with 
a sauce made as follows : Cream the but- 
ter, add the seasoning, the egg yolks, and 
the lemon juice, drop by drop, and last 
the boiling water. Cook over boiling wa- 
ter until it thickens. 

CORN PUDDING. 

One can of kornlet or corn, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, one level teaspoonful of 
salt, one level tablespoonful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter. If a brand of 
canned corn is used in which the grains 
are large and solid it is advisable to press 
it through a colander before using it for 
pudding. 

Melt the butter and add to the corn. 
Beat the eggs until frothy, add to them 
the milk, salt and sugar. Stir these into 
the corn, pour into a greased pudding 
dish and bake about twenty-five minutes, 
or until a delicate brown and puffed up, 
serve hot, as a vegetable. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

If you have no appliance for scraping 
corn from the cob, take a sharp knife and 
score each row of grains, then with back 
of the knife press out the pulp. To each 



Vegetables. 67 

pint of this add one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, a little pepper, the yolks and whites 
of four eggs. If the corn is young and 
milky add one rounding tablespoonful of 
pastry flour, and if not freshly picked, 
add one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix 
these ingredients. Separate the eggs, 
beat the yolks very light and the whites 
until stiff. Add the beaten yolks, mix 
well and, just before cooking, cut and 
fold in the whites. Have ready a hot 
griddle, put a small piece each of butter 
and lard on it and spread over the sur- 
face. Drop the mixture from a table- 
spoon, to resemble the shape of an oyster, 
onto the hot griddle ; when brown on one 
side turn and brown the other side. Serve 
at once. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare six cucumbers, cut them into 
quarters, removing the seeds, and soak 
them in cold water for a half hour; then 
put them in a saucepan, cover with boil- 
ing water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and 
boil gently until tender, about twenty 
minutes. When done, turn them care- 
fully into a vegetable dish, pour drawn 
butter over them and serve. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose large, smooth tomatoes, cut a 
slice off the stem ends, and with your 



68 Popular Dishes. 

fingers carefully scoop out some of the 
seeds. Put one cup of stale bread crumbs 
into a bowl, add to them quarter of a tea- 
sjpoonful of onion juice, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a dash of cayenne, and 
moisten it with a tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Fill the tomatoes with the stuffing, 
heapmg it in the center. Place the toma- 
toes in a granite baking pan and bake in 
a quick oven thirty minutes. When done, 
take them up carefully, place on a heated 
dish and serve. 

(This stuffing with fill six tomatoes.) 



CROQUETTES OF PEAS. 

Place in a double boiler one cup of 
milk. Rub together two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of butter and three rounding 
tablespoonfuls of flour. When the milk 
reaches boiling point add the butter and 
flour and stir until quite thick. Add a 
level teaspoonful of salt, four dashes of 
white pepper, and one pint of canned 
peas. Mix thoroughly, spread out on a 
platter and set away till cold and firm. 
When firm mould into cylinder-shaped 
croquettes, roll in fine bread crumbs, 
cover with egg and again with bread 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 



Chafing Dishes. 69 

CbafiiiQ Biebea. 

CHEESE AND TOMATO RAREBIT. 

Add to one-half cup of carefully 
strained tomatoes, one-fourth teaspoon 
each of salt, soda and paprika and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Put into blazer 
one rounding tablespoonful of butter; 
when melted add two cups of soft cheese 
cut very fine ; stir until cheese is melted, 
then stir in gradually the tomato mixture 
and continue stirring until it thickens. 
Serve at once on toast. 

CLUB HOUSE RAREBIT. 

Put into the blazer one-half cup of ale ; 
have ready one pound of finely chipped 
cheese. Put into a tiny pitcher or glass 
one tablespoonful each of tomato catsup 
and Worcestershire sauce and a salt- 
spoonful of paprika, or a speck of cay- 
enne. 

Light the lamp and when the ale 
steams turn in the cheese ; stir vigorously 
and constantly until perfectly smooth and 
the proper consistency to spread, adding 
the sauces when the cheese is partly 
melted. Put out light and serve at once 
on buttered toast. 



70 Popular Dishes. 

WELSH RAREBIT NO. i. 

Have ready grated one pound of rich 
cheese. Rub the bottom of the chafing 
dish with a clove of garHc or piece of 
onion. Put in the cheese, add one table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, one of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, four shakes of cayenne and two level 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Light the 
lamp, stir until it begins to melt, then 
add very gradually, four tablespoonfuls 
of ale or beer. When soft, smooth and 
creamy, pour it over the toast or crackers. 

WELSH RAREBIT NO. 2. 

Take half a pound of grated or chip- 
ped cheese, two level tablespoonfuls of 
butter, half a cup of cream, yolks of two 
eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt and three 
shakes of cayenne. Put the butter into 
the chafing dish, light the lamp, and stir 
until the butter is frothy; then add the 
cheese and stir until melted ; add the cream 
gradually, then the tgg yolks, and last 
the salt and pepper ; stir until smooth ; 
put out the light, and serve at once on 
dainty crackers or toast. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

When the sweetbreads come from mar- 
ket, throw them into cold water for one 
hour. Then remove all fat and surplus 



Chafing Dishes. 71 

skin, cover with boiling salted water, add 
a slice of onion, one-half bay leaf, sprig 
of parsley and small piece of celery. 
Cover and let simmer from twenty to 
thirty minutes. Drain and throw into 
cold water until cool. When cold pick 
into tiny pieces, rejecting all skin. At 
serving time place in chafing dish two level 
tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour 
— for each pint of sweetbreads — light the 
lamp and rub together until smooth, then 
add one cup of rich milk and stir con- 
stantly until it bubbles, add one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt and four shakes of white 
pepper. Add the sweetbreads and stir 
until hot, put out the light and serve at 
once. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG. 

Take one can of lobster, keep in rather 
large pieces. Before going to the table 
rub together two level tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one of flour and put into chaf- 
ing dish. Mash fine the hard boiled yolks 
of three eggs and add to them gradually 
one-half cup of good cream. Strain this 
mixture into chafing dish, add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt and one-half salt- 
spoonful of white pepper. When ready 
to serve, light the lamp, stir until hot, 
not boiling; add the lobster and stir 
slowly until hot again. Add four table- 
spoonfuls of sherry or Madeira and serve 
at once from the dish. 



72 Popular Dishes. 

LOBSTER, DELMONICO STYLE. 

One large-sized can of lobster, one- 
fourth cup of butter, two level teaspoon- 
fuls of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a few grains of cayenne, one cup of thin 
cream, two raw tgg yolks, wineglass of 
sherry, a slight grating of nutmeg. Melt 
the butter, add the flour, salt, cayenne, 
nutmeg and cream. Stir until it thick- 
ens and add the lobster meat, cut in one- 
half inch dice. When thoroughly heated 
add the tgg yolks and wine. 

FRENCH SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat four eggs until well mixed, but 
not frothy. Put into the chafing dish one- 
half cup of milk and a level tablespoonful 
of butter. Light the lamp, and when the 
milk reaches boiling point, stir in the 
eggs, and continue stirring until the mix- 
ture loses its liquid appearance. Put out 
the light, season with salt and pepper and 
serve on toast. 

CHINESE EGGS. 

Make cream sauce, as for creamed 
sweetbreads, have ready six hard boiled 
eggs, cut into quarters. When the sauce 
is hot, season and add the eggs, let stand 
a moment covered, then sprinkle over one 
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley 
and serve. 



Chafing Dishes. 73 

SPANISH EGGS. 

Put into the blazer two level table- 
spoons of butter, add one-half of a Ber- 
muda onion, sliced very thin and stir un- 
til a golden brown, add one pint of 
strained tomato and three-fourths of a 
cup of chicken, ham or tongue, cut into 
tiny dice. When heated and bubbling 
add one-half cup of canned mushrooms, 
sliced thin, season with salt and paprika. 
Have ready five eggs beaten just enough 
to mix. Add to the hot mixture and stir 
gently and constantly until it thickens, 
do not allow it to bubble. Serve prompt- 
ly on buttered toast or square crackers. 

EGGS A LA CARACAS. 

Two ounces smoked dried beef, one 
cup tomatoes, quarter of a cup of grated 
cheese, a few drops of onion juice, two 
tablespoon fuls of butter, three eggs, a 
few grains of cinnamon, and a few grains 
of cayenne. 

Pick over the beef and chop finely, add 
the tomatoes, cheese, onion juice, cinna- 
mon and cayenne. Melt the butter, add 
the mixture, and when heated add the 
eggs well beaten. Cook until the eggs 
are of a creamy consistency, stirring and 
scraping from the bottom of the pan. 



74 Popular Dishes. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Have ready four slices of hot, buttered 
toast, and two cups (solid) of oysters, 
which have been carefully washed and 
drained. Make the blazer very hot. pour 
in one-half the oysters, stir gently until 
the edges curl, add one level tablespoon 
of butter, one-fourth teaspoon of salt and 
paprika to taste. Serve on one-half the 
toast. Repeat, using the other cup of 
oysters and two slices of toast. 

FRICASSEE OF OYSTER. 

Drain fifty oysters; throw cold water 
over them and drain again. When well 
drained, put into a ,pretty bowl, ready for 
the table, and keep in a cool place until 
ready to use. At serving time place by 
the side of chafing dish the bowl contain- 
ing the oysters, also a cup or small bowl 
containing the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
a pat Tone ounce) of butter and a level ta- 
blespoon ful of parsley chopped fine. Have 
ready in the chafing dish two level table- 
spoonfuls of butter and the same of flour, 
rubbed together. When ready, light the 
lamp, stir a moment ; then add one cup of 
milk and stir constantly until you have a 
smooth sauce. Now add the oysters ; stir 
until the edges curl; add one-half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, three shakes of cayenne, 
the beaten yolks and parsley. Stir a mo- 
ment : put out the light and serve. 



Chafing Dishes. 75 

FISH A LA PROVENCALE. 

One-fourth cup butter, yolks four hard 
boiled eggs, two cups of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, two cups cold 
fish, three level tablespoonfuls of flour, 
salt and pepper to taste. Put the butter 
into the chafing dish, light the lamp, and 
when the butter is melted add the flour, 
stir until mixed. Add the milk, stir until 
it bubbles. Add the yolks of the eggs 
which have been reduced to a smooth 
paste with the anchovy essence. Stir a 
moment, add the fish and when heated 
serve. 

BARBECUE OF CALF'S LIVER. 

Purchase one-half pound of calf's liver 
in one piece, cover it with boiling water 
and add one-half bay leaf, small piece of 
celery and a very small onion sliced. Sim- 
mer one hour. Remove from water, and 
when cool slice into chips. Place in a dish 
ready for the table. Have a bottle of sher- 
ry and one of tomato catsup by side of 
chafing dish. Put four level tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into the dish, when ready 
light the lamp and add to the butter two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry and same of 
catsup. When hot, add the liver, dust 
with salt and pepper and stir constantly 
until hot. Serve at once from chafing 
dish. 



76 Popular Dishes. 

MOCK TERRAPIN, 

Three level tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two level tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth 
saltspoonful of pepper, a few grains 
of cayenne, one cup of milk one 
cup and a half of chicken or veal cut in 
dice, two hard boiled eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sherry. Melt the butter, add 
the flour and seasonings and then the 
milk ; stir until it thickens ; add the meat, 
yolks of the eggs chopped fine, and the 
whites cut in larger pieces. Cook three 
minutes; add the wine and serve. 

Sala6 2)re00inQ0. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Put the yolks of two eggs into a cold 
soup plate. Beat or stir a moment with a 
silver or w^ooden fork, then add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne, and, 
if you like it, half a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard. Work these well together, then add 
a few drops at a time, about one pint of 
olive oil, stirring rapidly and steadily all 
the time. Stir only one way, as reversing 
the motion may cause it to curdle. While 
adding the oil, add also, occasionally, a 
few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. If 
too thick when finished, add vinegar or 
lemon juice until it attains the consistency 



Salad Dressings. yy 

you desire. The more oil you use, the 
thicker the dressing. If the dressing 
should curdle, begin again with one or two 
more yolks in another plate, and after stir- 
ring well, add one teaspoonful at a time, 
of the curdled mayonnaise, and when all 
has been stirred in, continue adding oil as 
before until the desired amount is obtain- 
ed. Everything used in making a mayon- 
naise dressing, the dish included, should 
be ice cold, especially in warm weather. If 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice be added 
gradually, before any of the oil, the latter 
may be stirred in more rapidly, without 
danger of curdling. 

COOKED DRESSING. 

One-third cup of butter, two level table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one-half pint of milk, 
three eggs, one level tablespoonful of salt, 
two level tablespoonfuls of sugar, two lev- 
el teaspoonfuls of mustard, a speck of cay- 
enne, one-half cup of vinegar. Put the 
milk into a double boiler, rub the butter 
and flour together, and stir them into the 
milk when it has reached boiling point, 
stir until it thickens, let it stand a moment 
while you mix the other ingredients. Beat 
the eggs until frothy, add to them the 
sugar, salt, mustard and cayenne, stir well 
until mixed, then stir in the vinegar, mix 
well and stir this mixture into the cream 
sauce in the double boiler. Continue stir- 



/S Popular Dishes. 

ring until smooth and thick (about two 
minutes), and take at once from the fire. 
When cold this may be placed in a tightly 
corked bottle and kept in a cold place two 
weeks. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of vinegar, three ta- 
ble&poonfuls of olive oil, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
black pepper. Put the salt and pepper 
into a bowl, and gradually the oil, rub and 
mix until the salt is thoroughly dissolved, 
then add the vinegar by degrees, stirring 
constantly for about a minute, and it is 
ready to use and should be used at once. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 

Place in a granite saucepan one round- 
ing tablespoon of sugar, two level tea- 
spoons of salt, two level teaspoons of mus- 
tard and a speck of red pepper, rub to- 
gether until all lumps are removed, add 
enough sour cream to make a smooth 
paste, then add the balance of a cup of 
sour cream, half a cup of vinegar and three 
eggs. Beat a moment to thoroughly mix, 
then stir over the fire (a moderate one) 
vmtil the spoon leaves a track behind, in 
stirring. Let cool. If kept in a tight jar 
in a cool place, it will keep a week or more, 
but becomes thinner with keeping. 



Salad Dressings. 79 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

Stir together in a double boiler until 
thick, four egg yolks, four tablespoons of 
sugar, four tablespoons of tarragon vin- 
egar and one-eighth teaspoon of salt. Let 
cool. This will become very thick. At 
serving time fold into this the whip from 
one pint of rich cream. This will serve 
fifteen persons. 

Sala^6. 

SALAD OF SWEETBREAD AND 
PEAS. 

Prepare sweetbreads as for creamed 
sweetbreads (omitting the cream dress- 
ing), marinate with French dressing, chill 
and mix with an equal measure of cooked 
peas. Serve with cooked or mayonnaise 
dressing in a nest of lettuce leaves. 

SALAD WITH TOMATO ASPIC. 

Place over the fire one can of tomatoes, 
add two slices of onion, one small bay leaf, 
sprig of parsley and stalk of celery. Let 
simmer ten minutes. Strain carefully, re- 
moving all seeds. To one pint of this add 
one-third box of gelatin, softened for ten 
minutes in one-third cup of cold water, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt and paprika 
or cayenne to taste. Pour into a border 



8o Popular Dishes. 

mould and let harden. At serving time 
turn out and fill centre with mayonnaise 
of celery. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Cut up equal parts of tender celery into 
half-inch pieces and apple cut into half- 
inch dice, selecting very sour, crisp apples ; 
add a palatable seasoning of salt and white 
pepper, and just before serving mix with 
mayonnaise dressing; turn into a salad 
bowl lined with lettuce leaves, or it may 
be garnished with white celery tops. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD. 

Make the same as Waldorf salad, add- 
ing to each cupful of apples and each cup- 
ful of celery half a cupful of sliced Eng- 
lish walnuts. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can of shrimps, two cucumbers, 
about half a cupful of mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Remove the shrimps from the can, 
throw into cold water and wash thorough- 
ly, drain and wipe dry, break into two or 
three pieces; peel the cucumbers and cut 
up solid part into strips, then cut across 
into small pieces, add to the shrimps; 
sprinkle with salt and mix with the may- 
onnaise dressing. Serve in a bed of let- 
tuce leaves garnished with slices of cucum- 
ber and tomato. 



Salads. 8i 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Cut one pint Malaga grapes in half 
lengthwise, and remove seeds with a sharp 
pointed knife. Cut into cubes one pint of 
tart apple, as soon as cut sprinkle over a 
tablespoon ful of lemon juice to prevent 
discoloration, mix with the grapes, and 
add one cup of sliced English walnuts. 
Mix with one-half cup of mayonnaise 
dressing, which has had one tablespoonful 
of whipped cream stirred carefully into it. 
Arrange in nest of lettuce leaves and serve. 

NUT AND FRUIT SALAD. 

Mix equal parts of California grapes, 
apple, nuts and pineapple; cut the grapes 
in halves lengthwise, removing the seeds ; 
cut the apples into cubes and moisten with 
lemon juice to preserve the color. Use 
hickory nuts, Brazil nuts or English wal- 
nuts, or a mixture of all three cut in slices, 
and brown skin of Brazil nuts removed. 
Cut pineapple into half inch cubes. Sprin- 
kle with salt and just before serving com- 
bine with Mayonnaise dressing, which is 
improved by the addition of whipped 
cream, which should be added at time of 
serving, care being taken not to thin the 
dressing too much. 

This or any other salad containing ap- 
ples may be served in red apple cases. To 
make these, select large, perfect apples 
6 



82 Popular Dishes. 

with stems. Cut slice off top, deep enough 
to leave stems attached, carefully scoop 
out the inside, discarding cores and using 
the apple scooped out, for some other dish. 
A round vegetable scoop is convenient for 
this work. Use slices cut from tops as lids. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Select sound, medium sized ripe toma- 
toes ; scald carefully and remove the skins, 
and with a sharp knife cut out a portion 
at the top; fill the cavity thus made with 
cucumber chopped fine and slightly salted ; 
place a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing 
on top, set in a nest of lettuce leaves on a 
salad plate and serve. In preparing the 
cucumber, cut the solid part into strips, 
place in a chopping bowl and chop fine. 

ORANGE AND ALMOND SALAD. 

Remove every particle of white skin 
from sweet oranges and slice them in thin 
slices lengthwise of the orange; slice 
blanched almonds also very thin and 
lengthwise of the almonds ; pour over them 
about three tablespoonfuls of olive oil to 
each pint of oranges and nuts sliced. When 
well mixed together add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice, according to the 
acidity of the oranges, and when well mix- 
ed, serve on a bed of lettuce leaves, select- 
ing for the purpose the tender, delicate 
heart leaves. 



Hot Breads. 83 

Ibot Breab0. 

ONE EGG MUFFINS. 

Two cups of sifted flour, two slightly 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon ful of salt, two rounding 
tablespoon fuls of sugar, one rounding ta- 
blespoonful of butter, one tgg, three-quar- 
ters cup of milk. 

Sift all the dry materials together, melt 
the butter, beat the ^gg until light and add 
the milk to it. Add the tgg and milk mix- 
ture to the dry materials, stir until mixed, 
add the melted butter and stir just long 
enough to make a smooth batter, not an 
instant longer. Put at once into greased 
pans and bake in a quick oven about fif- 
teen minutes. This makes twelve large 
muffins. 

TWO EGG MUFFINS. 

Two cups sifted flour, two slightly 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two eggs, and 
three-quarters of a cup of milk. "^ Sift the 
flour, salt, baking powder, and sugar to- 
gether ; rub the butter thoroughly through 
them, then pour over the milk"; add the 
eggs beaten, and stir quickly and lightly 
to a smooth batter, continuing the stirring 



84 Popular Dishes. 

just long enough to mix. Turn at once 
into buttered gem pans, and bake fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One cup of sifted flour, one cup of corn 
meal, two slightly rounding teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, one rounding tablespoonful of sugar, 
one egg, one cup of milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter. Sift the flour, corn 
meal, salt, baking powder and sugar to- 
gether; beat the egg until light, add the 
milk to it, pour into the dry materials, add 
the melted butter. Stir quickly and light- 
ly to a smooth batter, drop into the greased 
gem pans, and bake for fifteen minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One pint sifted flour, two slightly 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, three level ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, and about half a 
cup of milk. Sift the flour, salt and bak- 
ing powder together, add the butter, and 
rub together thoroughly. Stir the milk in 
quickly, turn out on a board, and knead 
lightly, just enough to form a smooth 
dough. Roll out about three-quarters of 
an inch thick, cut with a very small cutter, 
brush over with milk, and place in a bak- 
ing pan and bake for about fifteen minutes 
in a quick oven. 



Hot Breads. 85 

WHEAT GEMS. 

Two cups of sifted flour, two slightly 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one level teaspoonful of salt, one and one- 
third cups of cold, fresh milk. Sift the 
flour, salt, and baking powder together, 
pour over them the milk, stir to a smooth 
batter, and drop from a spoon into greased 
gem pans. Bake for about fifteen minutes. 

SOUTHERN RICE BREAD. 

Two cups white corn meal, one cup cold 
boiled rice, one and one-half pints of milk, 
three eggs, one rounding tablespoonful of 
butter, melted, one level teaspoonful of 
salt, three slightly rounding teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat the eggs without 
separating, until very light; add the milk 
to them, then the rice, and add the mix- 
ture to the corn meal, into which has been 
stirred the salt and baking powder. When 
partly mixed add the melted butter. Pour 
as soon as blended into buttered layer 
cake or pie tins and put at once into a hot 
oven. Bake about thirty minutes. This 
amount will be sufficient for two or three 
tins according to size. It should not be 
more than one inch thick when baked. 

CORN BREAD. 

Make a batter as for corn meal muffins. 
Pour at once into a shallow, greased pan 
and bake about a half hour. 



86 Popular Dishes. 

POP OVERS. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one-half 
teasjpoonful of salt, one pint of sifted flour. 
Beat the eggs until very light, add the milk 
and salt to them, and pour this mixture 
gradually over the flour, stirring constant- 
ly. When a batter of proper consistency 
for beating is formed beat until smooth 
and free from lumps, then add the balance 
of the liquid; beat a moment and strain 
through a fine sieve. Pour into very hot, 
greased cast iron gem pans (or earthen- 
ware cups made for the purpose) and bake 
in a quick oven about 25 minutes. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Sift together one pint of flour, two 
slightly rounding teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of sugar. Add 
to these two rounding tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; rub together until thoroughly mix- 
ed. Beat one Qgg until light, add to it half 
a cup of milk ; pour this over the dry mate- 
rials, and stir with a knife to a smooth 
dough ; turn out on a board, knead lightly 
until a smooth dough — no longer. Roll 
out about one-third of an inch thick. 
Cream two rounding tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; spread carefully over the dough. 

Mix a level teaspoonful of ground cin- 
namon with two rounding tablespoonfuls 



Hot Breads. 87 

of granulated sugar; sprinkle these over 
the dough; then sprinkle over three-quar- 
ters of a cup of dried currants. Roll care- 
fully from you into a compact roll, cut 
into slices about half an inch thick, place 
close together in a baking pan, and bake in 
a moderate oven about twenty minutes. 

Half a cup of chopped raisins and a 
quarter of a cup of finely chopped citron 
may be used instead of currants. 

Breat)0. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Select whole wheat flour, free from out- 
side bran, pour one-half pint of boiling 
water into one-half pint of fresh milk. 
When lukewarm, add one cake of Fleisch- 
mann's compressed yeast, dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls of warm water, two level 
teaspoonfuls of salt, one level tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one rounding 
tablespoonful of sugar. Mix and stir 
in sufficient whole wheat flour to 
make a batter that will drop from 
a spoon, beat well, cover securely to 
exclude air and stand in a warm place 
(about 75 degrees) for three hours, or 
until quite light, then stir in sufficient flour 
to make a soft dough, knead lightly for 
about ten minutes, making a softer loaf 
than in white bread. Now mould in two 
loaves, place in greased pans, cover and let 



88 Popular Dishes. 

stand in a warm place until the loaves are 
double their bulk, about one hour. Bake 
in a slow oven for about an hour and a 
half. If preferred it may be worked up 
into a solid loaf like white bread, and fin- 
ished the same, except that it must be 
baked longer. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Pour one-half pint of boiling water into 
one-half pint (one cup) of fresh milk, if 
not fresh the milk may be scalded and the 
water added cold. Add two level tea- 
spoons of salt, one level tablespoon of but- 
ter and when lukewarm, add one cake 
(one-half ounce) of Fleischmann's com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in one-fourth cup 
of lukewarm water, stir in enough good 
bread flour to make a light batter, about 
three cups, beat vigorously for from three 
to five minutes, then stir in sufficient flour 
to make a dough which can be turned out 
onto a board. Sprinkle the board gener- 
ously with flour, turn the bread out upon 
it and knead until it will no longer stick to 
the hands or the board, about twenty min- 
utes. It should be very firm and covered 
with blisters. Place in a clean bowl, cover 
securely to exclude the air, let rise in a 
temperature of from J 2^ to 75° for about 
three hours, or until double its original 
bulk. Divide in half, mould each half into 
a loaf, place in greased tins, cover and let 



Breads. 89 

stand about an hour, or until doubled in 
bulk. Bake in a moderate oven about one 
hour. Before placing in the oven brush 
over the top of each loaf with cold water 
and repeat as soon as they are taken from 
the oven, then turn out of the tins and 
place in such a position that the air can cir- 
culate freely around the entire loaf. Let 
cool uncovered. Do not put it away for 
three or four hours. 

RYE BREAD. 

Make and bake the same way as white 
bread, using two and one-half cups of 
spring wheat flour, then finish with rye 
flour. This requires a little less kneading 
than white bread. If liked, one tablespoon- 
ful of caraway seeds may be added. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Sift together in a bowl one and one-half 
cups of fine corn meal, one cup each of rye 
flour and entire wheat (or Graham) flour, 
one level teaspoon each of salt and baking 
soda. Have ready greased, four one-pound 
baking powder cans. Add to the dry in- 
gredients one-half cup of best molasses, 
two cups of thick sour milk and one cup 
of seeded raisins. Stir quickly to a smooth 
batter, pour into the tins, place tne covers 
on and steam two and a half hours. Re- 
move the covers and bake in a moderate 
oven one-half hour. 



90 Popular Dishes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Make the same as white bread, adding 
to the Hquid, before the flour, one half cup 
of butter and one teaspoon of sugar. Let 
rise until doubled, in bulk, turn out upon a 
floured board without kneading, roll out 
thin, cut with a round cutter. vSpread one- 
half of each with creamed butter, fold the 
other half over, making the edges come 
together. Place in a baking pan, not too 
close together. Let rise for about one 
hour and bake, for about twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. If not a nice brown 
in eighteen minutes, increase the heat and 
bake a few minutes longer. 

If a high glaze is desired, brush over the 
top, just before placing in the oven, with 
a mixture made of one-eighth cup of milk 
and one-fourth of an tgg yolk. 

2)e06ert0. 

FRUIT TOAST. 

Four tablespoons of sultana raisins, two 
cups of boiling water, one tablespoon of 
butter, two-thirds cup of sugar, two level 
tablespoons of cornstarch, two tablespoons 
of lemon juice, one-fourth cup each of or- 
ange, cut into small pieces, chopped or 
shredded pineapples and red glace cher- 
ries. Simmer the raisins in the boiling wa- 
ter until tender. Drain and measure the 



Desserts. 9 1 

water, if not enough to make one cup, 
add boiling- water. Return to the fire, add 
a thickening made of the cornstarch and 
butter, add the sugar and lemon juice, 
then the raisins and other fruits. When 
hot, pour over rounds of dainty toast and 
serve at once. 

PEACH CREAM. 

Whip one cup of rich cream, have ready 
one cup (or more if liked) of mellow 
peaches cut into tiny bits. Just before 
serving, carefully combine the two. Pow- 
dered sugar may be sprinkled over the 
peaches, or beaten with the cream. Serve 
in sherbet glasses. 

PEACH FOAM. 

Add to one cup of strained, mellow 
peaches one-half cup of powdered sugar 
and one tablespoon of lemon juice. Add 
the unbeaten white of one ^gg, and beat 
until very stiff and greatly increased in 
bulk. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Strawberries and red raspberries may 
be used in the same way. Omit len^on, 
when using strawberries. 

CARAMEL MOUSSE. 

Make a caramel syrup of three-fourths 
cup of sugar and same of boiling water. 
Pour very carefullv over the well beaten 



92 Popular Dishes. 

yolks of six eggs and cook over boiling 
water until the mixture coats a spoon. 
Strain into a saucepan or a tin basin, set 
this into ice water and stir constantly until 
cold. Add two teaspoons of vanilla and 
fold in carefully the whip from one pint of 
rich cream. Turn into a mould and pack 
in equal parts of ice and salt. Let stand 
from three to four hours. 



MAPLE MOUSSE. 

One pint of rich cream whipped stiff, 
one cup of maple syrup and yolks of four 
eggs. Add to the maple syrup one-eighth 
teaspoon of cream of tartar, boil until re- 
duced a little, then finish exactly like car- 
amel mousse. 



PEACH MOUSSE. 

Rub through a sieve enough mellow 
peaches to measure one and one-half cups, 
add one cup of sugar and two teaspoons 
of lemon juice. To this add one-fourth 
box of gelatin, softened in one-fourth cup 
of cold water and stirred over hot water 
until dissolved. Set into a basin of ice 
water, stir until thick. Carefully fold in 
whip from one pint of rich cream. Turn 
into mould and finish same as caramel 
mousse. 



Desserts. 93 

MACAROON CHARLOTTE. 

Put one-quarter box of gelatin to soak 
for at least ten minutes in one-quarter cup 
of cold water. Whip one pint of cream. 
Put into a double boiler one pint of rich 
milk or thin cream. Beat four eggs until 
light, add one-third cup of sugar and stir 
into the scalded milk; stir a moment, re- 
move from the fire, stir into this custard 
the softened gelatin and when dissolved 
add six ounces of powdered macaroons, 
two ounces of powdered lady fingers, one- 
half cup of English walnuts cut rather fine 
and one tables,poonful of vanilla or one- 
fourth cup of sherry. Turn into a basin, 
set basin in another containing chipped 
ice, stir constantly until it begins to thick- 
en, then stir in very carefully the whipped 
cream. Turn into a mould and place on 
ice for two or three hours. When cream 
is not obtainable use yolks of six eggs in 
the custard, beat the whites to a stiff froth 
and fold in carefully, in place of the cream. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Put one-third of a box of gelatin to soak 
in three cups of cold milk; let soak one- 
half hour, then place over the fire in a 
double boiler. Beat the yolks of three 
eggs until light, add to them one-third cup 
of sugar, and beat again until light. Put 
the whites of three eggs into a large bowl, 



94 Popular Dishes. 

beat to a stiff froth, then stir into the boil- 
ing milk the yolks and sugar ; stir until it 
thickens, take from the fire, add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and pour this hot cus- 
tard over the beaten whites ; stir and beat 
until thoroughly mixed, and pour at once 
into a mould which has been rinsed out 
with cold water. Set away at once in a 
very cold place to harden. Plain or 
whipped cream may be served with this. 

HAMBURG CREAM. 

Juice of one lemon, grated rind of half 
a lemon, two-thirds cup of sugar, four 
eggs, quarter box of gelatin. Separate 
the eggs, beat the yolks until light and 
add one-third of the sugar to them and 
beat again until very light. Beat the 
whites until light and stiff. Now^ put the 
lemon juice and balance of the sugar over 
the fire, stir until sugar is dissolved, then 
let it come to boiling point. Add the gel- 
atin, which has soaked for half an hour in 
one-fourth cup of cold water, let it again 
come to boiling point and stir in carefully 
the yolks and sugar, stir over the fire until 
it begins to thicken, add the grated rind, 
remove from the fire, add the beaten 
whites a spoonful at a time, beating con- 
stantly. When all is added turn quickly 
into a mould (earthenware is best) and 
set away to cool. Serve with or without 
whipped cream. 



Desserts. 95 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Cover one-half box of gelatin with one- 
half cup of cold water and let soak at least 
ten minutes. Place over the fire in a dou- 
ble boiler one pint of milk; separate five 
eggs, beat the yolks, add to them three- 
quarters cup of sugar and beat again until 
very light ; stir these into the scalded milk, 
stir a moment, remove from the fire and 
stir in the softened gelatin, continue stir- 
ring until it is dissolved. Turn into a 
basin, set this in another basin containing 
chipped ice. Stir until quite cold, then 
add one cup of orange juice and continue 
stirring until it stirs heavily, then fold in 
carefully the stiffly beaten whites of five 
eggs. Turn into a mould and place on 
ice for three hours. 



ORANGE JELLY. 

One pint orange juice, one pint cold 
water, one pint boiling water, one pint 
sugar, one box of gelatin. Cover the gel- 
atin with the cold water, and let stand 
half an hour, add the boiling water, stir 
until the gelatin is dissolved, then add 
the sugar and stir until that is dissolved. 
Add the orange juice, strain through a 
flannel, pour into a mould, and stand in a 
very cold place until hardened. 



g6 Popular Dishes. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

One-third box of gelatin, half cup of 
sherry, half cup of cold water, half pint 
of boiling water, one cup of granulated 
sugar, juice of one medium sized lemon, 
one banana, two ounces candied cherries, 
one slice of candied pineapple, a few 
grapes. Pour the cold water over the gel- 
atin, let soak half hour, then add the boil- 
ing water, stir until gelatin is dissolved. 
Then add sugar and stir until that is dis- 
solved. Add the sherry and lemon juice, 
and strain through a flannel, or two thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth ; pour into a pitcher. 
Now set a bowl into a basin of chipped 
ice, decorate the bottom of it with some 
of the mixed fruit, and pour over it 
enough of the liquid jelly to cover it; let 
stand until hard, then arrange another 
layer of fruit and cover with jelly, and so 
continue until the jelly is all used. Let 
stand in the chipped ice until solid, or 
place in a very cold refrigerator. 

ALASKA JELLY. 

Prepare a well flavored orange or lemon 
jelly and mould it in small cups. When 
firm turn out and -place them some dis- 
tance apart on a platter. Prepare a me- 
ringue, using two tablespoon fuls of sugar 
for each white of tgg and flavoring with 
a few drops of lemon juice. Heap this 



Desserts. 97 

over and around each mould, being care- 
ful to leave no spot of jelly uncovered. 
Have the oven very hot and on the upper 
grating place a thick board. Dust the me- 
ringues with powdered sugar, put the 
platter in the oven on the board and 
brown quickly. When done put at once 
on ice. Or cut oranges into halves, scoop 
out the pulp and with it prepare the jelly; 
mould in the orange skins, and heap the 
meringue on the top of each, finishing in 
the same manner. 

MACAROON CUSTARDS. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, quarter 
cup of sugar, half teaspoonful of vanilla, 
ten macaroons. Make a custard of the 
milk, eggs, sugar and vanilla. Pour into 
buttered custard cups, two-thirds filling 
them. Cover the top of each with the 
macaroons, broken into small pieces. Put 
into a baking pan, surround with boiling 
water and bake in a moderate oven until 
puffed up in the center and firm. Turn 
from the cups three minutes after taking 
from the oven. Serve very cold. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

Fifteen stale macaroons, two table- 
spoonfuls of sherry, four eggs, one pint 
milk, half cup of sugar. Roll one-half of 
the macaroons with a rolling pin. Place 

7 



98 Popular Dishes. 

the other half in a pretty serving dish, 
pour the sherry over them and let stand 
while making the custard. Put the milk 
into a double boiler, separate the eggs, 
placing the yolks in a bowl, beat them 
slightly, add the sugar and beat until very 
light, stir into the scalded milk and con- 
tinue stirring for about a minute ; remove 
from the fire, add half teaspoon ful of va- 
nilla extract and pour over the maca- 
roons. 

Make a meringue of the four ^gg 
whites and four rounding tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla extract and heap careless- 
ly on top of the custard. Place in a mod- 
erate oven until a delicate brown. Remove 
from the oven and drop a preserved straw- 
berry into each depression in the me- 
ringue. Serve very cold. The juice of 
an orange may be used instead of the 
sherry. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

White of two eggs; yolk of one tgg) 
one rounding tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar; a few drops of vanilla. Beat the 
yolk until light, then add the vanilla. Beat 
the w^hites until frothy, add the sugar, 
and beat until very stiff, then pour on 
them the yolk and vanilla, and stir very 
gently until well mixed; then put at once 
into individual dishes, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven, about five minutes. 



Desserts. 99 

MACAROON SOUFFLE. 

One cup of milk, one-third cup of 
sugar, three level tablespoon fuls of corn 
starch, four tablespoonfuls of water, one- 
quarter pound of macaroon crumbs, one- 
half teaspoonful of vanilla, whites of five 
eggs. Place milk in a double boiler, add 
the cornstarch moistened with the cold 
water. Stir and cook for three minutes, 
then add sugar and macaroon crumbs and 
let cook while beating the tgg white very 
stiff. Remove from the fire and stir the 
beaten whites gradually into the hot mix- 
ture. Pour into buttered souflfle cups, 
about two-thirds filling them. Place in a 
pan, surround with boiling water, and 
bake about twenty minutes. Serve imme- 
diately. 

VANILLA SOUFFLE. 

One-half pint of milk, one-quarter cup 
of sugar, one-quarter cup of flour, one- 
quarter cup of butter, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Put the milk into a 
double boiler over the fire. Melt the but- 
ter, add the flour and mix well, add to the 
scalded milk and stir until thick and 
smooth. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add 
the sugar and beat again until creamy; 
add the vanilla and stir into the mixture 
in double boiler. Remove from the fire. 
Beat the whites until verv stiff, add them 



lOO Popular Dishes. 

very carefully and gradually to the hot 
mixture; turn into a buttered pudding 
dish and bake in a rather slow oven for 
about one-half hour. Serve immediately, 
as all souffles fall soon after taking from 
the oven. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 

Make the same as vanilla souffle, add- 
ing one rounded tablespoonful of grated 
chocolate or one level tablespoonful of co- 
coa to the scalded milk, before adding the 
butter and flour, first melting it with two 
tablespoonfuls of the scalded milk. Serve 
with vanilla sauce. 

CORN MEAL SOUFFLE. 

One pint milk, one-half cup of white 
corn meal, one-quarter cup of sugar, one 
rounding tablespoonful of butter, four 
eggs. Put the milk over the fire in a dou- 
ble boiler. When steam can be seen com- 
ing from the lower boiler add slowly, stir- 
ring constantly, the corn meal. Cover and 
let cook thirty minutes. Separate the eggs, 
beat the yolks until light, add the sugar 
and beat very light, add these and the but- 
ter to the hot mixture, stir a moment, re- 
move from the fire and add carefully the 
stiffly beaten whites. Turn at once into a 
buttered pudding dish. Bake twenty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Serve with a 
hard or liquid sauce. 



Desserts loi 

LEMON SOUFFLE. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, grated 
rind and juice of one lemon. Beat the 
yolks until thick and light in color, add 
sugar gradually and continue beating. 
Add the lemon juice and rind and beat un- 
til very light. Beat the whites until dry 
and fold very carefully into the yellow 
mixture. Turn at once into a buttered 
baking dish, set dish in larger one con- 
taining boiling water and bake in a mod- 
erate oven about thirty-five minutes. Serve 
at once, with or without sauce. 



ANGEL SNOW. 

Make an angel cake with whites of five 
eggs, three-fourths of a cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of sifted pastry flour, one-half 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake about forty- 
five minutes. Use cold. At serving time 
have ready the whip from three cups of 
cream, sweetened and flavored to taste. 
Place the inverted angel cake on a chop 
dish or platter, heap the whipped cream 
on top and around the cake, completely 
covering it, then sprinkle liberally with 
blanched and chopped pistachio nuts, or 
with macaroon crumbs, or with candied 
cherries chopped fine. 



I02 Popular Dishes. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Wipe carefully and core four good- 
sized apples, place in a granite baking 
pan, put a teaspoonful of sugar into the 
space from which each core was removed, 
pour about one-quarter cup of boiling- 
water into the pan and bake carefully. 
When done set away to cool and when 
quite cold scrape the pulp carefully from 
the skins and press the pulp through a 
vegetable press or sieve. Add to it one- 
half cup of ,powdered sugar and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, mix well and add 
the unbeaten white of one egg. With a 
surprise egg beater, beat constantly and 
always one way, until the mixture is white 
and greatly increased in bulk, fully twenty 
minutes. Heap into a pretty dish and 
serve with custard sauce, or alone. 



BROWN BETTY. 

Put into a buttered baking dish a layer 
of sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon and cover with soft bread 
crumbs. Continue this process until the 
dish is full, having the top layer bread 
crumbs. Dot all over with small pieces of 
butter, add a few spoonfuls of hot water 
and bake in a moderate oven until apples 
are tender. Serve hot with cream. 



Desserts. 103 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Make a custard of yolks of three eggs, 
one and one-quarter cups of milk and one- 
half cup of sugar. Chqp or slice thin fif- 
teen hickory nuts, grate two very large or 
three medium sized tart apples, first peel- 
ing them. Add the nuts and grated ap- 
ples to the custard, mix well, turn into a 
shallow, greased baking dish. Bake in a 
very moderate oven until firm in the cen- 
tre. When done have ready a meringue 
made of three ^gg whites, three rounding 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a few drops 
of vanilla. Heap this upon the custard, 
sprinkle very lightly with sugar and place 
in the oven until a delicate brown. 

STUFFED APPLES. 

Wash and core six good-sized tart ap- 
ples, put into a granite baking dish, fill 
the centers with jam, add just a little wa- 
ter to the pan and bake, basting several 
times. When done make a meringue of 
the white of one ^gg and a rounding ta- 
blespoonful of sugar, flavor this with a 
few drops of vanilla or lemon extract, 
hea^p a small spoonful on top of each apple 
and return to the oven until a delicate 
brown. Apples may be stuffed with a 
mixture of candied cherries, pineapple and 
nuts, all cut into small pieces, or with 
mincemeat. The meringite may be omit- 



I04 Popular Dishes. 

ted if desired, but it adds greatly to the 
beauty of the dish. 

APPLE AND SAGO PUDDING. 

One-half cup of sago, one pint cold 
water, one-half pint boiling water, one- 
quarter cup of sugar, jelly, apples. Wash 
the sago and let soak in the cold water 
over night. In the morning add the 
boiling water and cook in double boiler 
until perfectly clear, then add the sugar. 
Pare and core enough tart apples to fill 
a medium sized baking dish; fill spaces 
from which cores were taken with sugar, 
add one-fourth cup of water and bake 
carefully. When tender, remove from 
the oven, fill core spaces with jelly or 
jam, pour the hot sago over and set away 
until quite cold. Serve with cream (and 
sugar if desired). If preferred, the jelly 
may be omitted and the core spaces filled 
with sago. 

FRUIT BALLS. 

One-half cup of finely chopped suet, one 
cup of fine, soft bread crumbs, one-half 
cup of currants, one-half cup of seeded, 
chopped raisins, one-quarter cup of fine- 
ly chopped citron, one-half teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one-quarter teasipoonful 
each of nutmeg and salt, whites of two 
eggs. Mix the dry materials and add the 
egg whites, beaten to a froth; mix thor- 



Desserts. 105 

oughly and form into balls, the size of 
walnuts. Drop into a kettle containing 
plenty of boiling water. Cover securely 
and simmer gently, until they float 
(about twenty minutes). Remove care- 
fully to avoid breaking. Place in a serv- 
ing dish and pour around them a rich 
brandy or lemon sauce, using the two tg^ 
yolks if desired. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

One pound of prunes, the whites of six 
eggs, and one-half cup of sugar. Soak 
the prunes over night, and boil gently un- 
til tender; remove the stones, chop fine, 
and sweeten. Beat the tgg whites to a 
stiff froth, add six tablespoon fuls of pul- 
verized sugar, and stii carefully into the 
prunes. Pour into a greased baking dish, 
and bake twenty minutes. 

MOCK CHARLOTTE. 

Three level tablespoons of corn starch, 
one cup of boiling water, one-half cup of 
sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla and whites 
of four eggs. 

Place the corn starch in a saucepan, 
moisten with three tablespoons of cold 
water, when well mixed add the boiling 
water and stir over the fire until clear, 
then add the sugar, stir it until it bub- 
bles. Remove from the fire, add the va- 
nilla, then the stiffly beaten whites of 



io6 Popular Dishes. 

eggs, a spoonful at a time until all are 
added, beating vigorously after each 
spoonful is added. Turn into cups or in- 
dividual moulds, or into one large mould. 
Serve with custard sauce poured around, 
using the yolks of four eggs, one and a 
half cups of milk, half a cup of sugar 
and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Let both charlotte and sauce be very 
cold when served. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One pint of sifted flour, two slightly 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, two rounding 
tablespoon fuls of sugar, two round- 
ing tablespoonfuls of butter, one ^gg, 
and three-quarters of a cup of milk ; add 
a cup and a half of dates cut into very 
small pieces ; flour the dates. Sift to- 
gether the flour, salt, baking powder, 
and sugar: rub the butter into this mix- 
ture thoroughly. Beat the Oigg until light ; 
add the milk to it : pour over the other in- 
gredients, and mix quickly and lightly 
into a batter: add the floured dates, and 
turn into a baking pan and bake for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Make a batter the same as for date 
pudding. Place in a baking pan and 



Desserts. 107 

cover as closely as possible with halves 
of peaches, filling the cavities from which 
the stones were taken with sugar, and 
bake about twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with sugar and cream, or 
with hard sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

Make the same as date pudding, add- 
ing one pint of huckleberries instead of 
the dates. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of sifted flour, two slightly 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, two rounding 
tablespoon fuls of butter, one rounding 
tablespoonful of sugar, one Q:gg, and 
about three-quarters of a cup of milk. 
Sift the flour, salt, baking powder, and 
sugar together; rub the butter through 
the dry materials. Beat the ^gg until 
light, add the milk to it, and stir into the 
dry materials. Stir quickly and lightly 
into a smooth dough ; turn out on a 
floured board; roll backward and for- 
ward lightly with the hands until lightly 
covered wnth flour, then divide in half. 
Roll out one-half into a thin sheet the 
size of a small biscuit pan ; place in a but- 
tered pan : brush over lightly with melted 
butter. Roll out the second piece the 



io8 Popular Dishes. 

same as the first, and place on the tqp of 
the one in the pan ; press out evenly with 
the finger tips, then place in a quick oven 
and bake for about twenty minutes. Have 
ready two quarts of sweetened strawber- 
ries; cut them quickly and lightly with a 
silver spoon. When the shortcake comes 
from the oven separate the two layers care- 
fully with the fingers, cover one layer 
with the berries, place the other layer 
over and cover with the balance of the 
berries, and serve. 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One pint milk, four level tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch, yolks of three eggs, 
one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Heat milk in a double boiler, 
add the corn starch moistened with a lit- 
tle cold water, cook three minutes. Beat 
tgg yolks and sugar until very light, add 
to hot mixture and stir until thickened ; 
add the vanilla. Pour into a pudding 
dish, sprinkle with shredded cocoanut, 
cover with meringue made with three Qgg 
whites, three rounding tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Brown 
in moderate oven ; serve cold. Macaroon 
crumbs may be used instead of the cocoa- 
nut. 



Desserts. 109 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, half cup of sugar, 
two ounces of chocolate, four level table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, yolks of three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Melt the 
chocolate in a double boiler, then add the 
milk heated and the sugar, stir and beat 
until chocolate is thoroughly combined 
with the milk. Moisten the corn starch 
with a little cold milk, stir into the hot 
mixture and cook several minutes. Beat 
the Qgg yolks and stir them and the va- 
nilla in. Turn into a pudding dish, cover 
with a meringue made with the three 
egg whites, three rounding tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a few drops of vanilla. 
Brown in a moderate oven. Serve hot 
or cold, as preferred. 

LITTLE CHOCOLATE PUDDINGS. 

Brush eight custard cups with butter 
and fill each with soft bread crumbs. 
Put into a double boiler one pint of milk, 
when heated add two ounces of choco- 
late cut fine, and one-half cup of sugar 
mixed; stir until smooth and uniform in 
color. Remove from the fire, add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, and when partly 
cold pour over three well beaten eggs. 
Baste this mixture over the bread crumbs 
in the cups. Place in a baking pan, sur- 
round w^ith boiling water, cover with but- 



no Popular Dishes. 

tered paper and bake in a moderate oven 
about twenty minutes, or until well 
puffed up in the centre. When done 
turn from the cups and serve with va- 
nilla or chocolate sauce. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

Four level tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 
one-half cup each of pineapple juice, 
grated pineapple, water and sugar, whites 
of four eggs. Put the grated pineapple, 
the juice, water and sugar over the fire, 
stir until sugar is dissolved and allow it 
to just reach boiling point. Stir about 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water into the 
corn starch and add to the boiling mix- 
ture ; stir briskly until it has boiled one 
minute. Remove from the fire and beat 
in, a little at a time, the stiffly beaten tgg 
whites. Beat vigorously for a moment 
and turn into a mould to cool. Serve 
very cold with a boiled custard sauce, 
made of the yolks of four eggs, one and 
one-half cups of milk, one-half cup of 
sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One-half pint of bread cubes, one pint 
of milk, one-fourth cup of sugar, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one cup 
stewed apples. Cut the bread into half- 
inch cubes; beat the yolk of the eggs and 



Desserts. 1 1 1 

one white together, add the sugar and va- 
nilla, and beat until well mixed; add the 
milk, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Pour this custard over the bread and 
bake in a moderate oven until set ; take 
from the oven and cover with stewed ap- 
ples. Make a meringue of the remaining 
two whites and two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of granulated sugar ; add a few drops 
of vanilla, spread over the apples, and 
place in a moderate oven until a delicate 
brown. Serve hot, with or without 
cream. Any kind of preserve or jelly 
may be used in place of the apple. 

CARAMEL CUSTARDS. 

Beat three eggs until light, add one- 
fourth cup of sugar, beat a moment, then 
add one pint of milk, and stir until the 
sugar is dissolved. Put one-third cup of 
granulated sugar into a skillet, stir over 
the fire until melted and of a deep amber 
color. Pour one tablespoonful of this in- 
to each custard cuip, lift each cup as the 
caramel is poured into it and run the 
caramel around the sides; do this quick- 
ly, or they will harden before they are 
all done. Now about three-fourths fill 
each cup with the custard, set them all in 
a pan containing boiling water, which 
should be almost as deep as the custard 
in the cup. Place in a moderate oven, 



112 Popular Dislies. 

and bake until set. Take out, turn them 
at once out of the cups, and set away un- 
til cold. 

1lce0. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Have ready frozen, one quart of lemon 
ice cream. Make an Italian meringue 
(boiled icing) of one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of water and whites of three 
eggs. Beat until cold, then add very 
gradually, beating constantly, one quart 
of freshly made strong cold tea. Stir 
this into the ice cream. At serving time 
add brandy or kirsch to taste. 

ORANGE CREAM SHERBET. 

One pint of boiling water, one and 
three-fourths cups of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of rich cream, juice of six large 
oranges and juice of one lemon, two level 
teaspoons of the yellow rind of an orange 
carefully grated. Boil the water and 
sugar five minutes from the time it 
reaches boiling point. Let cool and add 
the cream, the strained juice of orange 
and lemon and the grated rind. Turn 
into a freezer and freeze like ice cream. 
Let stand two hours or more to ripen. 

Sour cream may be used instead of 
sweet, in which case it is safer to add it 



Ices. 



113 



after the other ingredients are frozen, then 
stir until frozen again. 

SICILIAN SHERBET. 

Press one can of peaches through a col- 
ander; add one pint of orange juice, and 
one pint of sugar; stir until the sugar is 
dissolved; place in a freezer, pack in ice 
and salt, using three parts of the former 
to one of the latter. Freeze, remove the 
lid, stir in the whites of two eggs beaten 
stifif, replace the lid and turn the dasher a 
minute or two. Serve after it has stood 
an hour. 

FRENCH FROZEN PUDDING. 

Separate six eggs. Put over the fire 
one pint of sugar and one pint of boiling 
water ; stir until the sugar is dissolved and 
bring to boiling point, and boil five min- 
utes. Beat the yolks of the eggs until 
creamy, pour the boiling syrup over them, 
and beat until cold. Add one pint of 
cream, and one tablespoonful of vanilla, 
and freeze in a freezer the same as ice 
cream. 

CREME-DE-MENTHE ICE. 

Boil one cup of sugar and four cups of 
water twenty minutes. When quite cold 
add one-third cup of creme-de-menthe cor- 
dial, add green coloring to make a very 
delicate green, strain and freeze like ice 
cream. Serve in tinv glasses. 
8 



114 Popular Dishes. 

Sweet Saucee. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR 
ICE CREAM. 

Put into a saucepan three ounces of un- 
sweetened chocolate and two cups ( i lb. ) 
of sugar. Mix and add one rounding ta- 
blespoonful of butter and one-half cup of 
boiling water. Cook to soft ball stage. 
Pour hot over ice cream. 

MAPLE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Put into a saucepan two cups of maple 
sugar (i lb.) broken, or rolled fine, two- 
thirds cup of rich cream and one rounding 
tablespoonful of butter. Stir gently back 
and forth occasionally to prevent scorch- 
ing and boil to soft ball stage. When 
done, set saucepan in another containing 
boiling water, to keep hot until needed. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add grad- 
ually one cup of powdered or fine granu- 
lated sugar, continue creaming until very 
light. Flavor with vanilla to taste. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Make a hard sauce of one-half cup of 
butter and one cup of sugar. After add- 
ing all the sugar, add, a few drops at a 



Sweet Sauces, 115 

time, four tablespoonfuls of orange juice 
and if liked, a saltspoonful of grated yel- 
low rind, or a few drops of orange ex- 
tract. 

YELLOW SAUCE. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add grad- 
ually one and one-fourth cups of sugar. 
Add two eggs, beaten very light and give 
a vigorous beating. Cook in double boil- 
er about five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the fire, add one-half tea- 
Sipoonful of vanilla and serve at once. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Place in a double boiler a cup and a half 
of milk. Beat the yolks of four eggs un- 
til light ; add to them half a cup of sugar, 
and beat again until light, and stir into 
the boiling milk. Stir until the mixture 
will coat a knife blade; add a teaspoonful 
of vanilla, and set away to cool. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

Cream a half cup of butter; add grad- 
ually a cup of sugar, and beat until light 
and creamy. Into a saucepan put three 
level tablespoons of corn starch, moisten 
with four tablespoons of cold water, mix 
well and pour over it one pint (two cups) 
of boiling water; place over the fire and 
cook until clear. At serving time pour 



ii6 Popular Dishes. 

this hot mixture into the sugar and but- 
ter; stir until mixed, add one teaspoon of 
vanilla and serve at once. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Make the same as vanilla sauce, adding 
to the hot mixture the grated rind of a 
lemon and to the butter and sugar the 
juice of a lemon. 

GERMAN CREAM PIE. 
(Two Pies.) 

CRUST. 

i^ cups of flour. 

J^ cup of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. 

2 eggs. 

CREAM FILLING. 

1 pint of cream or milk. 
Yolks of 6 eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour (rounding). 
I teaspoonful of vanilla. 

MERINGUE. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. 

A few drops of vanilla. 



Pastry. 117 

Sift the flour, add to it the sugar and 
butter; cut the butter well into the flour, 
then with the hands rub until all lumps 
are removed. Now add the eggs, beaten 
just enough to mix thoroughly; stir and 
work to a smooth paste. Divide into 
halves, form into balls and flatten out 
(one at a time) on the board. Now, roll 
gently and carefully, keeping just as 
round as possible, until, when you place 
the tin in which it is to be baked (which 
should be a layer cake tin) in the centre, 
there will be a border about one-half inch 
all around. Now, with a knife carefully 
cut away this border; place the center in 
the tin, pressing it out to the edge if it 
shrinks while transferring it to the pan; 
moisten around the edge with a pastry 
brush dipped into tgg (a teaspoonful may 
be reserved for the purpose), and then lay 
the paste which has been trimmed off, 
around the edge for a border. This gives 
it the a,ppearance of a very large tart with 
a very small border. Pierce with a fork 
several times. Bake in a moderate oven 
until a good brown, watching carefully, 
and prick with a fork if they rise in the 
center. While they are baking, put the 
milk into a double boiler, beat the yolks 
until light, add the sugar, then the flour, 
and stir into the boiling milk; stir until 
thick, remove from the fire, add the va- 
nilla, and when the crusts are baked, turn 
them out of the pan and place upon the 



ii8 Popular Dishes. 

inverted bottom, in order to have a per- 
fectly flat surface. Now, put in as much 
of the fining as the crusts will hold. Make 
the meringue by beating the whites very 
stiff, and adding the sugar by degrees, 
just cutting it in, not beating any after 
sugar is added; add the vanilla, and put 
on top of the pies, making a border first 
and filling in the center after the border 
is complete. Place in a very moderate 
oven until a delicate brown. This must 
be served on the tin on which it is finished, 
or very carefully removed to a glass cake 
stand, as the surface must be perfectly 
level. 

FLAKY PIE CRUST. 

Three cups of sifted pastry (soft) flour, 
one-half cup each of butter and lard, one 
level teaspoon of salt, two level tea- 
spoons of sugar, about two-thirds cup of 
ice water. Have everything as cold as 
possible. Sift the flour, salt and sugar, 
into a large platter, add the shortening, 
and with a knife cut it into very small 
pieces, at the same time mixing it with 
the flour. At one end of the platter make 
a hole, pour in a very little ice water and 
with the knife stir in lightly as much of 
the dry mixture as the water will moist- 
en. Toss this to one side, wet another 
portion in the same way and so continue 
until all the flour is moistened. Tt mav 



Pastry. 119 

not take all of the ice water. Dredge the 
board with flour, turn the paste out on 
this without any further mixing, dredge 
any wet spots lightly with flour, roll light- 
ly and quickly from you, into a long, thin 
sheet. Fold first the sides, then the ends, 
turn half way around and roll from you 
as before. Now fold the ends only, turn 
around as before, and continue until it has 
been rolled out four times. Having fin- 
ished folding and rolling, cover very care- 
fully to exclude the air and keep very cold 
until needed. This may be used the same 
day, but is greatly improved, if kept until 
the following day or even longer. This 
amount will make two pies, each having 
two crusts. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One pint of stewed and sifted pumpkin, 
one pint of milk, two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one cup of sugar, one level 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, salt and 
ginger, one-quarter teaspoonful of nut- 
meg and four eggs. Put all the ingredi- 
ents, except the eggs, into a saucepan, 
heat to steaming point, remove from the 
fire and add the eggs beaten until light 
and frothy. Have two pie tins lined with 
pastry, fill with the mixture and bake in a 
hot oven for ten minutes, reduce the heat 
and bake until well puffed. If preferred 
the pumpkin custard may be poured into 



120 Popular Dishes. 

buttered custard cups and baked like cup 
custards, but cannot be turned out. 

ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

One cup of milk, three eggs, one-half 
cup of sugar, two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, grated yellow rind and juice 
of one small orange. Cover an inverted 
pie tin with good paste, prick with a fork 
six or eight times, and bake at first in a 
very hot oven, then reduce the heat and 
bake until a nice brown. While this is 
baking, make the filling. Put the milk into 
a double boiler, grate the orange and ex- 
tract juice. Separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks until light, add the sugar, grated 
rind and flour, beat again until light ; add 
the orange juice, mix well, pour into the 
heated milk and stir until it thickens, 
about five minutes. When the crust is 
baked remove from oven, remove from 
the tin and place inside. When the filling 
is ready, pour it into the baked crust, 
cover with a meringue made of three tgg 
whites, three rounding tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Brown 
in a moderate oven. 

SOUTHERN CREAM PIE. 

One and one-quarter cups of milk, one- 
third cup butter, one-third cup of flour, 
one cup sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Put milk into double boiler, 



Pastry. 121 

rub the butter and flour together and stir 
into the scalded milk, beat the yolks of 
the eggs until light, add the sugar, beat 
again until light, stir into the hot mixture 
and stir over the fire until thick (about 
two minutes). Take from the fire, add 
the vanilla; make a meringue of three 
tgg whites and one-half cup of powdered 
sugar; add a few drops of vanilla. Pour 
the cream mixture into a hot baked crust, 
spread the meringue over the top and 
brown in a moderate oven. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint tart apples, stewed rather dry 
and sifted, one-half cup of butter, three- 
quarters cup of sugar, two rounding ta- 
blespoonfuls of ,powdered cracker, grated 
rind of one lemon, yolks of four eggs, 
whites of two eggs. While the apples are 
still hot, sift them and add the butter; 
when butter is melted, add the sugar, 
cracker and grated rind and last the well- 
beaten eggs. Bake in one crust. When 
done cover with a meringue made of two 
egg whites, two rounding tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Re- 
turn to the oven until a nice brown. 

LEMON PIE— NO. i. 

Juice and rind of a large lemon, one 
cup of sugar, four eggs. Grate carefully 
the yellow rind of the lemon and squeeze 



122 Popular Dishes. 

out the juice, add the juice to sugar in a 
saucepan and stir a moment. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs in a bowl until light and 
creamy, beat the whites until stiff. Now 
put the sugar and juice over the fire and 
let boil a moment. Add the grated rind 
and pour gradually over the yolks, beat- 
ing constantly, return to the fire and stir 
just a moment, remove and beat in by 
spoonfuls the stiffly beaten whites ; give all 
a good beating and pour at once into two 
baked pie crusts, which should be hot. 
Bake a rich brown and serve hot or cold. 

LEMON PIE— NO. 2. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one 
cup of boiling water, one cup of sugar, 
four level tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
one rounding tablespoonful of butter, two 
eggs. Mix the corn starch with three ta- 
blespoonfuls of cold water and pour over 
it the boiling water, stir over the fire until 
clear, add the sugar, butter and grated 
rind and juice of the lemon, return to the 
fire and stir until it bubbles. Now stir in 
carefully the well beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Have ready a pie tin lined with a crust 
which should be baked and hot, turn the 
mixture into it; quickly as possible make 
a meringue of the two tgg whites and two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor 
this with a few drops of vanilla and spread 
over the pie. Put into a moderate oven 



Pastry. 123 

until a delicate brown. All pies with one 
crust made with a cooked mixture should 
have the crust baked first. The most ap- 
proved way of baking- this crust is to in- 
vert the pie tin and bake the crust on the 
outside instead of the inside of the tin. 
When baked, turn it over, put it into the 
pie tin and finish as above. 

NEW YORK LEMON PIE. 

One cup of milk, yolks of four eggs, 
whites of four eggs, three-fourths cup of 
sugar, two rounding tablespoons of flour, 
juice and rind of one lemon. 

Put the milk over the fire in a double 
boiler, beat the yolks of the eggs, add the 
sugar, beat well, add the flour, beat well. 
Add the lemon juice and grated rind. Stir 
this mixture into the hot milk, stir until 
quite thick, remove from the fire and add 
carefully the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

Make a meringue of whites of three or 
four eggs, adding to them a rounding ta- 
blespoon of sugar to each white, flavor 
with a few drops of vanilla. Pour filling 
into a baked pie crust, arrange meringue 
on top and brown in a moderate oven. 
The temperature should be such that from 
ten to fifteen minutes will be required for 
browning nicely. If the meringue is made 
with powdered sugar, sprinkle lightly 
with powdered sugar before placing in 
the oven. 



124 Popular Dishes. 

fIDertnfluee- 

MERINGUE— NO. i. 

Two tgg whites, two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar, a few 
drops of vanilla. Add a tiny pinch of salt 
to the tgg whites and beat until quite stiff 
but not dry. Add the sugar gradually, 
folding it in carefully ; add the vanilla and 
spread at once over the hot surface of pie 
or pudding and put at once into a moder- 
ate oven, for about fifteen minutes, or un- 
til a nice brown. This meringue requires 
great care in making, but is very light and 
dainty when properly made. Do not make 
it until ready for it and fold in the sugar 
with just as few strokes as possible. 

MERINGUE— NO. 2. 

Two tgg whites, two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a few drops 
of vanilla or lemon juice. Add a pinch 
of salt to the tgg white and beat until light 
and frothy, but not stiff. Beat in the sugar 
gradually, and last the vanilla. Beat until 
very stiff and firm. Spread over the pie 
or pudding while hot, sift powdered sugar 
over the top and brown in a moderate 
oven. 

MERINGUE— NO. 3. 

Three tgg whites, three-fourths cup of 
powdered sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful 



Meringues. 125 

of vanilla. Add a pinch of salt to the 
whites, beat until stiff, add one-half the 
sugar gradually and beat until very stiff 
and firm; add vanilla and fold in balance 
of the sugar. Spread over the hot pie or 
pudding, sift powdered sugar over the top 
and brown in a moderate oven. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

The whites of ten eggs, a cup and a 
half of granulated sugar, one cup of sift- 
ed flour, one level teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar and one teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. Sift the flour twice, then meas- 
ure and add the cream of tartar. Sift five 
times more. Sift the sugar twice, beat 
the whites until very stiff, add sugar grad- 
ually, stirring it in lightly, add the flour 
gradually, then the vanilla, and turn at 
once into an ungreased angel food tin. 
Bake in a very slow oven about one hour. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of seven eggs, yolks of five 
eggs, one cup of granulated sugar, two- 
thirds of a cU)p of sifted flour. Sift the 
sugar and flour same as for angel food, 
beat the yolks thoroughly and add flavor- 
ing to them, then beat the whites until 
frothy, and sprinkle over one-third of a 



126 Popular Dishes. 

tea.-poonful of cream of tartar. Continue 
beating until very stiff, mix the sugar in 
lightly and gradually, then the yolks thor- 
oughly, then the flour. Bake in a slow 
oven about one hour. 

SPONGE LAYER CAKE. 

Yolks of six eggs, and two cups of 
sugar beaten together for fifteen minutes, 
add one cup of boiling water, two and a 
half cups of flour, one-eighth of a nutmeg, 
two and a half even teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, and last the whites of three 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in three 
thick or four thin layers, and put between, 
either a chocolate or white icing. 

OLD FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, weight of the eggs in sugar 
and half their weight in flour, juice and 
carefully grated rind of one lemon. First 
weigh the sugar and flour and prepare the 
lemon. Next separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks and sugar together until very light 
(about ten minutes) then add the juice 
and rind of the lemon, and half the flour. 
Beat the whites until light and stiff, add 
one-half carefully to the mixture, next the 
rest of the flour and last the balance of the 
whites. Each portion of flour and whites 
should be stirred in very lightly and care- 
fully, otherwise it will be tough. Pour in- 



Cakes. 127 

to a flat cake pan and bake in a quick oven 
about three-quarters of an hour. 

SPONGE DROPS. 

Whites of three eggs, yolks of two 
eggs, one-third cup of powdered sugar, 
one-third cup of sifted pastry flour, one- 
eighth teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Beat the whites un- 
til light and frothy, add the sugar grad- 
ually and beat until very stiff. Beat the 
yolks thick and light colored, add the van- 
illa and pour over the whites and sugar ; 
fold in very carefully. Now add the flour 
gradually, folding it in very carefullv. 
Drop from a teaspoon onto pans lined 
with unbuttered paper, a little distance 
apart. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
bake in a moderate oven eight minutes. 
Remove while hot from the paper, with a 
spatula or limber knife. 

CHOCOLATE NOUGAT CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups of sugar, two cups of sifted 
flour, one-half cup of milk, three eggs, two 
level teaspoons of cream of tartar and one- 
half teaspoon of baking soda, sifted twice 
with the flour. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar grad- 
ually, continuing the creaming, then cook 
until smooth and glossy one-half cake of 



128 Popular Dishes. 

unsweetened chocolate, five tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water and one-half cup more of 
sugar. Add this mixture to the butter and 
sugar, beat in the eggs (yolks and whites 
beaten together), then the milk and flour 
alternately a little at a time. Beat vigor- 
ously a moment, turn into three large or 
four small layer cake tins and bake from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes. When cool 
spread between layers and on top boiled 
icing made of three cups of sugar, one cup 
of boiling water and whites of three eggs, 
add while beating one cup of blanched al- 
monds sliced thin lengthwise and flavor 
with vanilla or rosewater. If baked in 
four layers, this makes two nice cakes. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Make a cake batter the same as for rai- 
sin cake, omitting raisins, bake in two lay- 
er cake tins. Put together with caramel 
icing No. 3. 

WHITE LAYER. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of water, three cups of 
sifted flour, three level teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one teaspoon of vanil- 
la, whites of four eggs. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, continu- 
ing the creaming, then add the water and 
flour a little at a time, having the baking 
powder sifted with the flour; continue 



Cakes. 129 

stirring until the water and flour are all 
used. Now add the vanilla and well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, stir just enough 
to mix, and pour into three large or four 
small layer cake pans, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for 20 minutes. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

One-third cup of butter, one cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of water, one and 
seven-eighths cups of sifted pastry flour, 
two and one-half level teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, three-quarters of a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, whites of four eggs. 
Mix same as bride's cake; bake in two lay- 
ers about twenty minutes. 

YELLOW LAYER CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of 
granulated sugar, three eggs three cups of 
sifted pastry flour, three level teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one cup of water, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and about one-third 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix the 
same as gold cake. Bake in a moderate 
oven about twenty minutes, or until when 
touched lightly with tip of finger it will 
leave no impression. This may be baked 
in three or four layers, according to con- 
venience and put together with any kind 
of icing desired. 

9 



130 Popular Dishes. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Add to yellow layer cake just before 
putting into the tins, two squares of plain 
chocolate w^hich have been melted over 
steam. Put layers together with white or 
chocolate frosting. 

SPICED LAYER CAKE. 

Three-quarters cup of butter, one 
pound of sugar, one cup of water, four 
eggs, three cups of flour, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of cloves, one-half nut- 
meg, three even teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar by 
degrees, then add the yolks of the eggs 
and beat well, now add the water and 
flour alternately a little at the time, then 
the spices and baking powder and last the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in 
three deep jelly cake tins and spread be- 
tw^een the layers and on top a soft icing. 

GOLD CAKE— NO. i. 

Yolks of ten eggs, one-half cup of but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, one cup of water, 
three and one-half cups of sifted pastry 
flour, four level teaspoonfuls of baking 
pow^der, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one- 
quarter teaspoonful of nutmeg. Mix 



Cakes. 131 

same as raisin cake. This is especially 
nice for layer cake and may be put to- 
gether with any icing desired. 

GOLD CAKE— NO 2. 

Yolks of eight eggs, one cup of fine 
granulated sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup of water, one and three-quar- 
ter cups of sifted pastry flour, two level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, one-half teaspoonful 
of grated nutmeg. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar gradually, beat the tgg yolks 
until light and creamy, add to the butter 
and sugar and give all a vigorous beating. 
Sift the flour and baking powder together 
and add alternately with the water a little 
at a time. Add the flavoring, turn into a 
pan and bake in a very moderate oven one 
hour. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one- 
half ctips of powdered or fine granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of water, one-quarter 
cup of corn starch, two cups of sifted 
pastry flour, two and one-half level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-eighth 
teaspoonful of extract of bitter almonds, 
one-half teaspoonful of vanilla, whites of 
six eggs. Cream the butter, add the 
sugar gradually and beat until creamy, 
add the water and flour (containing the 



132 Popular Dishes. 

baking powder) alternately, a little at a 
time, next add the flavoring and last cut 
in carefully the Q.gg whites beaten very 
stiff. Put in a cake pan and bake in a 
slow oven one hour. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add grad- 
ually one cup of fine granulated sugar. 
After adding the last of the sugar, add 
two eggs, yolks and whites beaten togeth- 
er and give a very vigorous beating. Now 
add alternately, a little at a time, one-half 
cup of water and one and one-half cups of 
sifted pastry flour having added two level 
teaspoons of baking powder and about 
one^fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg to the 
latter. Add one-half teaspoonful of vanil- 
la. Place one-third of this batter in a sep- 
arate bowl and add to it one-half ounce of 
unsweetened chocolate melted, or one level 
tablespoonful of cocoa. Mix thoroughly. 
Now put a thin layer of the yellow batter 
into a long, narrow bread pan (about 4x 
9), then brown and yellow in streaks un- 
til all is used. Bake one hour in a slow 
oven. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

One-third cup of butter, one cup of 
sugar, two yolks and one whole tgg, one- 
half cup of water, one and one-half cups 
of sifted pastry flour, two level teaspoon- 



Cakes. 133 

fuls of baking powder, three-quarters of a 
teaspoonful of vanilla and one cup of 
raisins, seeded and cut in half. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually and 
when creamy add the eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten together until very light and 
give all a vigorous beating. Add the van- 
illa, then the water and flour alternately, 
a little at a time. Add the raisins, beat a 
moment and pour into a cake tin, bake 
one hour ; or bake in a sheet and serve cut 
into squares, either with or without icing. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half 
cups of sugar, one-half cup of water, two 
cups of sifted pastry flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, two level teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one cup of hickory nuts 
and whites of four eggs. Mix same as 
bride's cake. Add the nuts just before the 
egg whites. Bake in sheet about forty 
minutes, or in loaf one hour. 

ENGLISH GINGER-BREAD. 

One cup of butter, one cup of brown 
sugar, one cup of molasses, one cii^p of 
sour cream or milk, four cups of flour, 
three eggs, one level tablespoonful of gin- 
ger, one level teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one level teaspoonful of soda, juice and 
rind of one lemon, one level teaspoonful 



g 



134 Popular Dishes. 

of baking powder. Cream the butter, add 
gradually the sugar, continue beating, add 
the lemon juice and rind and the eggs 
well beaten. Beat thoroughly. Add the 
molasses and the cream into which the 
soda has been stirred, mix well and then 
stir in gradually the flour, baking powder 
and spices. Turn into two cake pans and 
bake slowly one hour. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Three pints of flour, one pint of milk, 
one cake of Fleischmann's compressed 
yeast, three eggs, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of butter, one level teaspoonful of salt. 
Scald the milk and let cool to blood heat ; 
add the yeast and salt and half the flour. 
Beat until full of air bubbles, cover and 
put into a warm place (about 75°) until 
double in bulk. Then add the butter, soft- 
ened, the sugar, eggs, and balance of the 
flour. Beat twenty minutes and let rise 
again, then pour into flat buttered pans. 
Cover liberally with a mixture of buttered 
bread crumbs, sugar and cinnamon. Let 
it rise again until double its bulk and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

One pint of sifted flour, four level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-quarter 
cup of butter, two eggs, one-third cup of 



Cakes. 135 

sugar, one half teaspoonful of salt, about 
three-quarters cup of milk. Sift together 
the flour, salt, sugar and baking powder 
and rub into them thoroughly the butter. 
Beat the eggs until frothy, add the milk 
to them and pour over the dry materials. 
Now with a knife or spoon, stir quickly 
to a smooth batter. Do not give one 
stroke more than is necessary to mix thor- 
oughly. Turn into a flat, buttered pan. 
Cover with a mixture of one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and one level teaspoonful of 
cinnamon. Bake about twenty-five min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

COCOANUT CONES. 

Cook one pound of fresh cocoanut 
grated and one and one-half cups of sugar 
together in a double boiler, until the mix- 
ture is somewhat stiff and clings to the 
spoon. Add the whites of two eggs, beat- 
en until dry and cook until well mixed 
and sticky to the touch. Spread in a pan 
rinsed in cold water, cover with a wet pa- 
per and chill on ice. Dip the hands into 
cold water and shape the mixture into 
small cones. Bake about twenty minutes, 
in a slow oven, on a greased paper. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

Whites of two eggs, one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, three-quarters of a cup of 



136 Popular Dishes. 

shredded or grated cocoanut. Beat the ^gg 
whites until light but not stiff, add grad- 
ually two rounding tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, beating all the time and when the 
second spoonful is added continue beating 
until stiff, then add gradually the rest of 
the sugar, folding it in ; when all is folded 
in, add the cocoanut, fold this in carefully. 
Have ready a large flat pan, the bottom of 
which should be covered with a piece of 
ungreased paper. Drop the macaroon mix- 
ture in tiny cakes on this paper, fully an 
inch apart and bake about eighteen min- 
utes in a slow oven (about 370°). Have 
ready a cup of cold water and a pastry 
brush. About one minute after taking 
them from the oven, lift the paper care- 
fully with both hands and place gently on 
a flat surface with the paper up, brush 
quickly and lightly over the entire surface 
twice with the brush dipped in cold water. 
Then carefully remove the macaroons al- 
lowing them to cool bottom side up. 

SOUR CREAM GINGER CAKES. 

One-fourth cup of molasses, same of 
brown sugar, one-half cup of sour cream, 
one and one-eighth cups of pastry flour, 
one-half teaspoon each of salt, soda and 
cinnamon, and one-half tablespoon of 
ground ginger. 

Mix half the soda with the sour cream 
and molasses, add the sugar. Mix with 



Cakes. 1 37 

the flour the balance of the soda, the sah 
and spices. Add the first mixture to the 
second, stir just long enough to thorough- 
ly mix and drop into greased muffin tins. 
Bake in a moderate oven twenty to twen- 
ty-five minutes. This rule makes twelve 
cakes. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup of hot water, one cup of flour, 
one-fourth cup of butter, four eggs. Put 
the water and butter into sauce-pan, place 
over the fire, and when it boils add the 
flour all at once, and stir quickly over the 
fire until it forms a ball which leaves the 
pan. Set aside until partly cool, then add 
one egg at a time, beating all the time. 
After adding the last egg beat vigorously 
for five minutes, then drop by tablespoon- 
fuls on buttered tins, about two inches 
apart. Bake in a rather quick oven from 
20 to 25 minutes, being careful not to 
scorch them. When done they are light 
in weight. When cold make an opening 
in one side with a sharp knife, and drop in 
a spoonful of the following cream filling : 

CREAM FILLING. 

One cup of milk, three eggs, one round- 
ing tablespoon ful of corn starch, four 
rounding tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the milk over 
the fire in a double boiler. Beat the eggs, 



138 Popular Dishes. 

add the sugar, and beat again until light, 
then stir in the corn starch, and stir all 
into the boiling milk. Stir until it thick- 
ens, remove from the fire, and when cool 
add the vanilla. 

PLUNKETS. 

Four eggs, three-quarter cup of butter, 
two cups of sifted flour, one cup of sugar, 
two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one-half teaspoonful of vanilla, a few cur- 
rants or caraway seeds, if liked. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually and 
beat light and creamy, add the eggs beat- 
en very light and give all a vigorous beat- 
ing, then stir in gradually the flour and 
baking powder, add the vanilla and the 
fruit if desired. Bake in small (patty) 
tins for about fifteen minutes. 

HERMITS. 

One and one-half cups of brown sugar, 
one cup of butter, two eggs, one-half cu]) 
of sour milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves, one-half tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, one cup of seeded, 
chopped raisins, one-half cup of chopped 
nuts (English walnuts or hickory nuts). 
Flour to make a batter which will drop 
from a spoon, about two and one-half 
cups. Mix the same as gold cake, adding 



Cakes. 1 39 

the spices and fruit, just before the tiour. 
Drop onto buttered tins about two inches 
apart and bake from ten to fifteen minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

HERMITS— NO. 2. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, three eggs, one tablespoon 
of milk, two cups of flour, one-half tea- 
spoon of soda, one-half teaspoon of nut- 
meg, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice, one cup of raisins and 
one cup of nuts. Mix and bake the same 
as No. I. 

VANILLA WAFERS. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, one-half cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, two cups of sifted pas- 
try flour. Cream the butter, add the sugar 
gradually and cream until very light, add 
flavoring, then the milk and flour alter- 
nately, beat vigorously for a minute. 
Spread thinly with a spatula on the in- 
verted bottoms of baking pans, which 
should be greased with melted butter and 
quite cold. Bake in a moderate oven, un- 
til a very delicate brown. Take from the 
oven, cut into squares, quickly remove and 
roll on the tin, into cork-shaped rolls. If 
they become brittle before all are rolled, 
return to the oven a moment until soft 
again. 



140 Popular Dishes. 

ALMOND WAFERS. 

Make and spread same as vanilla wa- 
fers, sprinkle chopped, blanched almonds 
over the surface. Roll same as vanilla 
w^afers. 

MAPLE FROSTING. 

Two cups of crushed maple sugar, one 
cup of cream. Put the sugar and cream 
into a granite saucepan and stir over the 
fire until sugar is dissolved. Continue 
boiling without stirring until it will form 
a soft ball in cold water. Take from the 
fire and beat constantly until the proper 
consistency to spread. Spread as quickly 
as possible over the cake. 

PINEAPPLE FROSTING. 

One can of grated pineapple, confec- 
tioner's XXXX sugar. Turn pineapple 
into a large bowl and stir in confection- 
er's XXXX sugar, which has just been 
sifted, until a nice consistency to spread. 
Use what is required and put balance into 
a self-sealing jar for future use. It will 
keep nicely for several weeks. 



Frostings. 141 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 
Place in a bowl the white of one egg, 
add to it one-fourth cup of cold water, 
then stir in three cups of confectioners' 
XXXX sugar, add a few drops of vanilla, 
and one ounce of unsweetened chocolate, 
which has been melted over steam. Mix 
thoroughly and spread at once between 
the layers and on top of the cake. 

CARAMEL FROSTING NO. i. 

One and one-half cups of granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of milk or cream, one 
rounding teaspoonful of butter, one and 
one-half squares of unsweetened choco- 
late, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. Put 
the butter, milk and sugar into a saucepan, 
stir until sugar is partly melted, put over 
a moderate fire and let come gradually to 
boiling point, then add the chocolate, 
which has been melted over steam, and 
boil without stirring for thirteen minutes. 
Take from the fire and beat constantly un- 
til the proper consistency to spread, which 
can only be ascertained by practice; add 
vanilla and spread quickly over the cake. 

CARAMEL FROSTING NO. 2. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of 
thin cream, one rounding teaspoonful of 
butter. Put all together in a saucepan and 
boil very gently for about forty minutes. 



142 Popular Dishes. 

or until it reaches the soft ball stage, 
which may be ascertained by dropping a 
small quantity into very cold water. Re- 
move from the fire and beat constantly 
until the proper consistency to spread. 
Spread as quickly as possible. 

CARAMEL FROSTING —NO. 3. 

One cup of light brown sugar, one- 
fourth cup of cream, one rounding table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
caramel and one-half teaspoonful of 
vanilla. 

Put the sugar and cream into a small 
saucepan. Stir over the fire until it bub- 
bles. Then cook gently without stirring 
until a little dropped from a teaspoon into 
cold water, may be rolled into a soft ball. 
Take at once from the fire, add the butter 
and beat until it begins to thicken, stir in 
the vanilla and caramel and spread quick- 
ly between and over the cake. This is 
only enough for two layers. 

CARAMEL. 

To make the caramel for this icing, 
place in a sheet iron skillet over the fire 
one-half cup of granulated sugar, stir con- 
stantly until all is melted. Have ready 
one-half cup of boiling water, add this to 
the melted sugar and let it boil gently 
until the hardened sugar is again a syrup. 



Frostings. 1 43 

When cool this can be placed in a glass, 
or bottle and kept ready for use. 



CONFECTIONERS' ICING. 

Make the same as chocolate icing, omit- 
ting the chocolate and adding a little more 
vanilla extract. 



ORANGE ICING. 

Grate the yellow rind of one large or- 
ange, add it to the juice and let stand 
about one hour, then strain through 
cheese cloth, add two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, then stir in sufficient confec- 
tioners' XXXX sugar to make the proper 
consistency to spread (about three cups). 



BOILED ICING. 

Boil two cups of granulated sugar with 
two-thirds cup of boiling water, until it 
will form a soft ball in cold water, then 
take from the fire and pour over the 
whites of two eggs which have been 
beaten to a stiff froth, beat well until 
thick enough to spread, flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla, and spread between the 
layers and on top of the cake. 



144 Popular Dishes. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING. 

Make a boiled icing with two cups of 
granulated sugar, two-thirds cup of boil- 
ing water and whites of two eggs. Be- 
fore making, place over the fire in a 
double boiler, one-half pound of marsh- 
mallows. As soon as the last of the hot 
syrup is poured over the beaten whites of 
eggs, add the softened marshmallows. 
Continue heating until the proper consis- 
tency to spread. 

LEMON FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Grated rind and juice of two lemons, 
yolks of three eggs, one-halt cup of but- 
ter, one cup of sugar. Mix and stir over 
the fire in a double boiler, until thick, 
bearing in mind that when cold it will be 
much thicker. Spread while warm, be- 
tween layers and on top of cake, or be- 
tween layers only. The top may be iced 
if preferred, with any white icing. 

FUDGE. 

Put two ounces of scraped chocolate 
into a good-sized granite saucepan and 
melt over steam or a very moderate fire. 
When melted add three-quarters cup of 
rich milk or thin cream, stir over the fire 



Candy. 145 

to a thick paste, then add two and one- 
half cups of granulated sugar and a round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, stir over the 
fire until it reaches boiling point, then 
boil just five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the fire and beat until 
slightly thickened, adding one teaspoonful 
of vanilla when partly cold. Pour into a 
buttered tin, about one-half inch deep and 
when cold mark in squares. English wal- 
nuts broken into rather large pieces may 
be added if desired, using one heaping 
cupful. 

COCOANUT FUDGE. 

Put over the fire in a granite saucepan, 
two and one-half cups of granulated 
sugar, three-quarters cup of thin cream or 
rich milk and one rounding tablespoonful 
of butter, stir constantly and boil just five 
minutes from time of coming to boiling 
point. Take from the fire, add one cupful 
of dessicated cocoanut and beat constantly 
until cold and thick, turn into a 
buttered tin to depth of one-half inch, 
when cold mark in squares. This is more 
difficult to get just right than the choco- 
late fudge. 

MAPLE FUDGE. 

Grind or roll very fine enough maple 
sugar to make three cupfuls. Place this 
with one cup of rich milk and a rounding 
10 



146 Popular Dishes. 

tablespoonful of butter in a granite sauce- 
pan and allow it to cook rather briskly, 
beating it constantly until it boils away 
from the sides of the kettle, or until it will 
make a soft ball when dropped into cold 
water. When done take from the fire and 
beat until thick enough to turn out into a 
buttered tin. Mark in squares. 

MAPLE CREAM BARS. 

Put one pint of maple syrup and one- 
half pint of good cream into a granite 
saucepan and boil briskly, stirring con- 
stantly to the soft ball stage. Take from 
the fire and beat until it begins to thicken, 
then if desired add one and one-half cups 
of English walnut meats and when thick 
enough, turn into a buttered pan, press 
into shape and when quite cool mark into 
bars. To be "professional" these should 
be nearly an inch thick, one and one-half 
inches wide, and about five inches long. 
In some parts of Canada this is made to 
perfection and nothing more delicious can 
be imagined. The "soft ball stage" is 
reached when a small portion (about one- 
half teaspoonful) dropped into very cold 
water will form a soft ball in the fingers. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, 
three-quarters cup of butter. Put all the 



Candy. 147 

ingredients into a saucepan and boil, stir- 
ring constantly, until it will snap (not too 
sharply) when chilled in ice water. This 
will require about fifteen minutes. When 
done pour into a buttered pan and when 
partly cool, mark in desired shape. When 
cold, finish cutting and wrap each piece in 
confectioners' waxed paper. 

PULLED SUGAR TAFFY. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-eighth 
cup each of vinegar and water, one level 
tablespoon of butter, one-half teaspoon of 
vanilla or any extract preferred. 

Put into a sauce pan the water, vinegar 
and sugar, stir until it begins to bubble, 
then boil without stirring until it reaches 
the soft ball degree, or until it spins a 
thread. Add the butter and cook until 
brittle when dropped into ice water. Pour 
onto a well greased pie tin, do not scrape 
the saucepan. When cool enough to han- 
dle, add flavoring and pull until light col- 
ored and stiff. Cut into one-inch pieces. 

COFFER 

In making boiled coffee, to secure per- 
fection, several points must be given care- 
ful attention, one of the most important 
being the article in which it is made. 



148 Popular Dishes. 

There are several reasons why it is not ad- 
visable to use a tin coffee pot ; use a gran- 
ite or glazed ware of some kind. 

Absolute cleanliness of the pot is one of 
the first essentials, and to insure a fine, 
delicately flavored coffee, the pot should 
be cleaned thoroughly after each time it is 
used and every two weeks it should be al- 
most filled with cold water, to which 
should be added a tablespoonful of sal. 
soda. Let the water reach boiling point 
and boil gently five minutes. Throw this 
water out, and very carefully rinse the pot 
and wipe dry. The soda is used to re- 
move the oil and other particles which al- 
ways cling to the pot, and if not removed, 
will very seriously injure the flavor of the 
coffee. 

Another matter of importance is that 
the water shall be freshly boiled, that is, it 
should be drawn fresh from the faucet, 
brought quickly to boiling point and used 
at once, as with the escaping steam pass 
off the gases which give the water flavor 
and it becomes flat and tasteless, produc- 
ing- inferior coffee or tea. 

One-third Mocha and two-thirds Java, 
is a favorite combination, but where a 
"heavier" flavor is preferred, some of the 
other combinations may be used. 

For so-called boiled coffee, have the 
berry ground rather fine (granulated). If 
ground coarser, the strength cannot be ex- 
tracted without boiling two or three min- 



Beverages. 1 49 

utes, and this not only spoils its flavor, 
but makes it unwholesome, as the contin- 
ued boiling extracts principles which are 
injurious toi health. 

If it is ground by your grocer, as soon 
as it reaches your home turn it into a large 
bowl, add to one pound, the whites of two 
eggs and mix with a spoon until every 
tiny grain has its share and all have a 
glossy appearance. Put at once into a 
tightly covered tin. This will not require 
any further settling at time of making. 

The best results are obtained by grind- 
ing the coffee just before time to put it 
over the fire. Where this is done, grind 
just the required amount, allowing from 
one rounding to one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of coffee to each cup of water, accord- 
ing to the taste of those who are to use it. 

Many persons who cannot drink coffee 
if cream and sugar are added, find that 
clear, unsweetened coffee has no bad ef- 
fect. Never use cold milk in coffee. If 
milk is used from choice, or from neces- 
sity, heat it in a double boiler. 

TO MAKE "BOILED'' COFFEE. 

Where six cupfuls are required, place 
in a bowl six tablespoonfuls of coffee. In 
another bowl put the white of one egg, 
add to this, half a cup of cold water, beat 
until thoroughly mixed and add half of 
this mixture to the coffee, * reserving the 



150 Popular Dishes. 

balance for another time. Mix thor- 
oug-hly and turn into the coffee pot. Pour 
over it six cupfuls (three pints) of boil- 
ing water; fill the spout with soft paper 
or cheese cloth, to keep in the steam; place 
over the fire and watch carefully until it 
boils, lift quickly from the fire. In a few 
seconds place it over the fire again, until 
it boils up a second time, then remove, stir 
down with a spoon, cover securely and 
put where it will keep hot, but cannot pos- 
sibly boil, for ten minutes. Pour a small 
quantity to clear the spout, return this to 
the pot, and it is ready to serve, and 
should be a beautiful amber and perfectly 
clear. 

When the coffee has had tgg added to 
it as soon as ground, omit the addition of 
egg and cold water, at time of making. 



FILTERED COFFEE. 

Many kinds of pots for making filtered 
coffee are offered for sale. Some of those 
most simple in construction give very sat- 
isfactory results. Do not purchase one 
having a perforated tinned strainer, as the 
perforations expose the iron of which 
these strainers are made and in a short 
time the color and flavor of the coffee is 
very seriously injured by contact with 
this iron. 



Beverages. 151 

TO MAKE IT. 

Place the coffee in the lower strainer, 
allowing- one rounding tablespoonful of 
very finely ground or pulverized coffee to 
each cup of freshly boiled water. Pour 
the water onto the upper strainer grad- 
ually, when full cover and let it percolate, 
continue until the desired amount of 
water is used, keeping it where it will 
keep hot, but do not allow the contents to 
boil. As soon as all the water has passed 
through, it is ready to use. 

TEA. 

As in making coffee, to secure the best 
results, freshly boiled water must be used. 
Never use a tin teapot; earthenware or 
china are preferable. Pour boiling water 
into the pot and let stand at least two min- 
utes, to thoroughly heat it, throw this wa- 
ter out and put in the desired amount of 
dry tea. Pour the boiling water in, cover 
and use at the end of three to five minutes 
according to brand of tea used. Do not 
place over the fire, as there is danger of it 
boiling. If tea is boiled, the llavor is 
ruined and the tannic acid extracted to 
such an extent as to render it highly in- 
jurious. Let me emphasize, never use a 
tin teapot, use freshly boiled water, scald 
out the pot just before using, upon no 
account allow the tea to boil, as tea boiled 



152 Popular Dishes. 

is tea ruined, and do not allow it ro steep 
more than five minutes, except where Ja- 
pan or English breakfast tea is used, when 
from eight to ten minutes will be found a 
better time. 

The amount of tea used to a given quan- 
tity of water depends entirely upon per- 
sonal taste, the kind of tea used and the 
price paid for it. Tea at a dollar a pound 
is no more expensive, if care is taken in 
making, than tea at seventy cents a pound 
(this will be found especially true in using 
Ceylon teas), as the more expensive 
brands are much stronger than the cheap- 
er, consequently less is needed in the mak- 
ing, and those at a dollar are so much 
finer in flavor that they are greatly to be 
preferred. 

To obtain the best results in using Cey- 
lon and India teas, care must be taken not 
to make them too strong, or to allow them 
to steep over three minutes. 

Green teas are highly injurious, so 
should be avoided. Where black teas are 
distasteful, a taste for them may be ac- 
quired by introducing at first a small quan- 
tity, say two ounces of black to fourteen 
of green, gradually increasing the amount 
of black in proportion to the green, until 
all black may be used and enjoyed as much 
as the green had been formerly. 

Tea taken with meals retards digestion 
seriously, especially where sugar is used 
in it. In the countries where tea is raised, 



Beverages. 153 

it is used freely by the natives between 
meals, but rarely with meals. Would it 
not be well for us to copy after these Ori- 
entals in this matter? 

ICED TEA. 

Allow four teaspoonfuls of tea to two 
cups of boiling water. Let it steep from 
three to five minutes and strain over 
chipped ice. Serve promptly. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Russian tea may be served either hot or 
cold, but always clear. When served hot, 
put a thin slice of lemon, with seeds re- 
moved, into each cup, pour over the hot 
tea and sweeten to taste. If served cold, 
lemon juice may be added to iced tea and 
a slice of lemon placed in each glass. A 
preserved strawberry or a candied cherry 
may be added to each cup or glass. 

COCOA. 

Cocoa being highly nutritious, is really 
a food, not a beverage, although often 
classed under that head. Cocoa contains 
less fat than chocolate and for that reason 
is more readily digested, consequently is 
preferred by most persons. The amount 
required for a given amount of liquid de- 
pends upon individual taste and the brand 



154 Popular Dishes. 

used. Where a high priced cocoa is used, 
less is required than when using a cheaper 
brand. Most cocoas require boiHng for a 
minute or two in order to thoroughly cook 
the starch. Where it is made in a cup, it 
will be found to be harsh and coarse to the 
taste, therefore boiling is not only recom- 
mended, but strongly urged, as uncooked 
starch is not only unpalatable, but un- 
wholesome. In order to boil it, water 
must be used, as it would not be advisa- 
ble to boil milk. Half water and half milk 
produce very satisfactory results, but 
where more milk is preferred, it may be 
used, heating it in a double boiler and add- 
ing the boiled cocoa to it just before serv- 
ing. 

BREAKFAST COCOA. 

Place in a saucepan one level table- 
spoonful each of granulated sugar and 
cocoa, mix well, add one cup of boiling 
water and let boil one full minute. Have 
ready one cup of milk heated in a double 
boiler, add the boiled cocoa and beat one 
minute with Dover egg-beater. 

CHOCA. 

Add to above rule for cocoa just before 
serving, one cup of very strong, clear cof- 
fee and eight drops of vanilla extract. 
This is nice for luncheon or for a five 
o'clock tea. 



Beverages. 155 

LEMONADE. 

Boil together one pint each of water 
and sugar for ten minutes. Let cool and 
at serving time add three pints of iced 
water and one pint of lemon juice, or 
"•inoii and orange juice mixed. Two 
lemons sliced thin may be added. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Place in a granite saucepan one pound 
(one pint) of sugar, add the grated rind 
of one lemon and one orange, to this add 
one pint of water and boil five minutes. 
Strain and add one glass of currant jelly, 
the juice of two lemons and two oranges, 
one pint of grape juice and one quart of 
ApoUinaris water. Add ice to chill and 
serve. 

FRUIT PUNCH NO. 2. 

Boil together for fifteen minutes, one 
grated pineapple, four cups of sugar and 
three cups oi water, add one cup of strong 
freshly made tea and strain. When cold 
add the juice of five lemons and six or- 
anges and one pint of strawberry or grape 
juice. At serving time pour into a punch 
bowl over a block of ice; add one quart of 
ApoUinaris water and five quarts of 
water. To this may be added one-half 
pint of Maraschino cherries, or if pre- 
ferred, fresh strawberries, sliced bananas 
or mint leaves. 



156 Popular Dishes. 

MINT CORDIAL. 

Four level tablespcwDns of finely chop- 
ped spearmdnt leaves, the grated or 
chipped yellow rind of one small orange 
and one lemon, juice of two lemons and 
two oranges, one and a half cups of sugar, 
one cup of boiling water. Soak the mint 
leaves in the fruit juice one-half hour. 
Bring the water and sugar tO' boiling 
point, add the grated rind and boil with- 
out stirring for five minutes. Remove 
from the fire, add the fruit juice and mint 
and strain carefully. Chill. If not of a 
delicate green color, it may have a very 
-mall amount of green coloring added, but 
this must be done with the utmost care, 
that too much be not used. In serving, fill 
tiny glasses with shaved ice, then fill with 
the cordial. 

nDi0ceUaneou6. 

EGG NOGG. 

Stir into one cup of cold, rich milk, one 
tablespoon of sugar. Separate the white 
and yolk of one tgg. Beat the yolk slight- 
ly and the white until very stiff. Fold the 
white into the yolk and pour over them 
the sweetened milk. Grate over a tiny 
grating of nutmeg. Pour into a glass and 
serve promptly. If ordered by the physi- 
cian, one tablespoon of wine or brandy 
may be added. 



Miscellaneous. 157 

BEEF TEA. 

Cover one pound of finely chopped meat 
with one pint of cold water; add to it a 
small stalk of celery, a bay leaf, a sprig of 
parsley and two whole cloves. Allow to 
soak for two hours, stirring frequently; 
then stand it over the fire and stir until it 
reaches steaming point. Do not allow it 
to boil ; strain through a colander or r.oup 
sieve and it is ready to use. Season with 
a little salt before serving. Any particles 
of fat found floating on top should be 
carefull) removed. 

BARTHELOW'S FOOD. 

Put two tablespoon fu Is of sago into one 
pint of milk; let it soak twenty minutes, 
then put it in a double boiler over the fire 
to cook for abottt ten minutes, or until the 
sago is clear. Now add one pint of beef 
tea, let it come to the boiling point, and 
take from the fire and add the well-beaten 
yolks of three eggs and one teaspoonful 
of salt. This must be made carefully or 
it will curdle. To reheat, place the vessel 
containing the desired amount in another 
containing boiling water and stir until 
quite hot. 

SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES. 

Beat one egg until light with a Dover 
egg beater, then add one-half cup of milk, 



158 Popular Dishes. 

and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Now 
stir in one cup of sifted winter wheat 
flour. When mixed to a smooth batter 
add one-half tablespoonful of olive oil. 
Let stand for one hour, stirring gently oc- 
casionally to break the air bubbles. Have 
a small kettle of fat heated, place the tim- 
bale iron in it for about five minutes. Have 
a cup about three- fourths full of the batter, 
lift the hot iron, allow the fat to run off, 
dip into the batter almost to the top, then 
quickly place it in the hot fat and fry until 
a delicate brown. 

MARGUERITES. 

One cup of chopped English walnuts, 
one cup of powdered sugar, whites of two 
eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
add the sugar and beat until very I'ght. 
Then stir in gradually the chopped nuts, 
spread thinly on waferettes. Place in a 
slow oven until a delicate brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup of grated cheese, half cup of 
sifted flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
speck of cayenne pepper and one egg. 
Mix the dry ingredients, add the egg and 
mix to a dough. Knead lightly until firm 
and smooth, roll out to and from you into 
a long thin sheet trying to keep the width 
about six inches. Roll about one-eighth 



Miscellaneous. 1 59 

of an inch thick, cut into strips about one- 
sixth of an inch wide. Lay carefully on a 
baking sheet and bake in a slow oven 
about ten minutes or until the ends are a 
delicate brown. 



CHEESE FINGERS. 

Roll out plain or puff paste into a thin 
sheet; cut in half; sprinkle one strip with 
grated cheese; place the other strip on 
top; roll very gentlv, to seal the two to- 
gether, then cut into strips about one-half 
inch wide and five inches long; place on a 
baking sheet, sprinkle again with grated 
cheese and bake in a quick oven about 1 5 
minutes. 

CHERRY JAM. 

Stone the cherries and to each pound 
(weighing after they are stoned) add 
one-half pound of sugar. Let them stand 
until the sugar becomes moistened with 
the juice, then place over a slow fire until 
sugar is dissolved, when it may be put 
over a quicker fire. When it reaches boil- 
ing point, observe the time and allow it 
to boil from thirty to forty minutes, ac- 
cording to the quantity. Put while hot 
into jelly glasses and when cold cover the 
same as jelly. 



i6o Popular Dishes. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Two large or three small quinces, one 
pint sugar, one pint boiling water. Put 
the sugar and water over the fire and let 
boil gently while preparing the quinces. 
Wipe them carefully and peel, then grate 
on a coarse grater as rapidly as possible, as 
they become dark quickly. As soon as 
grated add to the boiling syrup and boil 
from five to ten minutes. Put at once 
into glasses and cover the same as jelly, 
when quite cold. This quantity will fill 
three half-pint jelly glasses. Never make 
more than this at one time. As soon as 
one lot is put into glasses, begin another. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

One cup of yellow granulated corn 
meal, one rounding tablespoonful of flour, 
two level teaspoonfuls of salt, one level 
tablespoonful of sugar, one cup of cold 
water, three cups of boiling water. Put 
all the dry materials into upper part of 
double boiler, add the cold water, stir a 
moment, then add the boiling water. Stir 
over the fire until it bubbles, then set in 
lower boiler, cover and cook three hours, 
giving an occasional stir.. This is deli- 
cious eaten hot with cream, or it may be 
turned into an oblong bread pan and when 
cold and firm, cut in slices and fried on a 
griddle. To aid in browning, each slice 
may be dipped into flour. 



Miscellaneous. i6i 

LITTLE SUET DUMPLINGS. 

One-half cup of finely chopped suet, 
one cup of flour, one level teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix well, then add gradually, suf- 
ficient ice water to make a firm dough. 
Form into balls the size of marbles, and 
boil gently in soup for ten minutes, or into 
balls size of walnuts and simmer very 
gently in a stew for twenty minutes. 

CHEESE AND NUT BALLS. 

Put some mild cheese through a meat 
chopper, using a fine cutter. To each cup- 
ful add one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, sea- 
son to taste with paprika or cayenne and 
add sufficient rich cream, olive oil, or 
creamed butter to enable one to- mould it 
into balls. Now add (to each cupful of 
cheese) one-third cup of finely chopped 
English walnuts or hickory nuts. Mix 
well and form into balls a trifle larger 
than marbles. Chill thoroughly and serve 
with any kind of salad. Any of the soft 
cream cheeses put up in tin foil may be 
used in place of the older cheese. 

WAFFLES. 

Two and two-thirds cups of sifted 
pastry flour, two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, two rounding teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, half teaspoonful of 
salt, two eggs, one pint of milk. Sift to- 
gether the flour, salt and baking powder, 
II 



1 62 Popular Dishes. 

rub the butter thoroughly through them. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs very light, add 
the milk to them and stir into the dry ma- 
terials. Beat until perfectly free from 
lumps, then carefully cut in, the stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn into a pitcher and 
pour from that into the waffle iron. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

To make club sandwiches in the most 
approved way, toast some slices of bread 
a delicate brown, not too slowly; lay a 
crisp, dry lettuce leaf on a slice of toast, 
spread lightly with mayonnaise, on this 
place a layer of very thin sliced cold 
breast of chicken or turkey, sprinkle very 
lightly with salt and pepper, on this lay a 
thin slice of hot broiled ham or bacon, on 
this place a lettuce leaf, cover this with 
mayonnaise, then put on another piece of 
toast. Press down firmly with the hand, 
to make it more compact. Now cut across 
in two triangles, put onto a hot plate and 
serve at once. 

BEEF SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of entire wheat bread, 
trim off the crust and butter the slices very 
lightly. Cover half the slices with crisp, 
dry lettuce leaves, spread lightly with 
mayonnaise, place on each a very thin 
slice of cold roast beef, sprinkle lightly 
with salt and pepper, on the beef arrange 
rather thin slices of cucumber pickle, or 



Miscellaneous. 163 

cover with sliced olives, on this place a 
lettuce leaf, spread with mayonnaise, and 
then cover with another slice of buttered 
bread, press firmly together, cut into two 
triangles and serve at once. Mutton may 
be used instead of beef, and thin slices of 
tomato may be used with either, instead 
of either pickles or olives. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Cut very thin, slices of entire wheat or 
white bread, butter lightly with creamed 
butter. Remove skin and bones from a 
box of sardines, mix with an equal quan- 
tity of hard-boiled yolk of egg, which has 
been passed through a sieve or vegetable 
press. Season with salt and cayenne and 
add sufficient olive oil or creamed butter 
to admit of its being spread nicely. Spread 
this mixture on half the slices of buttered 
bread, cover with the other half, press to- 
gether firmly and cut into squares, trian- 
gles and oblong pieces. 

FIG SANDWICHES. 

Prepare bread as for sardine sandwich- 
es, have some figs chopped fine, to which 
has been added just a little lemon juice. 
Spread lightly on the buttered bread, 
sprinkle with chopped or thinly sliced 
English walnuts or pecan nuts. Cover 
with another slice of buttered bread and 
cut into fancy shapes. 



164 Popular Dishes. 

CHEESE AND ENGLISH WALNUT 
SANDWICHES. 

Take a cake of Neufchatel cheese, add 
sufficient creamed butter or olive oil to 
enable you to spread it like butter, season 
lightly with salt and cayenne pepper, add 
half a cup of chopped English walnuts, 
mix thoroughly and spread o^-er thin 
slices of bread, cover with another slice, 
and cut in fancy shapes. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES. 

Spread zephyrettes with Neufchatel 
cheese, cover with finely chopped olives, 
moistened with mayonnaise dressing. 
Place another zephyrette over each one 
and press together. Thin slices of bread 
may be used in place of zephyrettes. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Place a quarter of a pound of shelled 
almonds in a saucepan, cover with boiling 
water and iplace over the fire until they 
come to a boiling point. Drain at once 
and while still hot remove the skins, wipe 
dry. Put in a small baking pan a level 
teaspoonful of butter, place in the oven 
until melted, then add the almonds and 
stir around until mixed with the butter. 
Then place in a very slow oven and stir 
occasionally until a delicate brown. Take 
from the oven, place in another dish. 
sprinkle liberally with salt and set away to 
cool. 



Holds Amerlcm^s Highest PHxe 



BAKER'S 

Cocoa and Chocolate 




Registered U. S. Pat. Office 



Absolutely pure, with a 
most delicious flavor, made 
by a scientific blending of 
the best cocoa beans grown 
in different parts of the 
world. It is backed by 126 
years of successful manu- 
facture and by 46 highest 
awards in Europe and 
America — an unparalleled 
record of achievement. 



Be sure that you get the genuine with the trade-mark 
on the package. 

Directions for preparing more than one hundred dainty 
dishes in our Choice Recipe Book, sent free on request. 

Walter Baker <a Co. Ltd. 

Established 1780. DORCHESTER, MASS. 



Are you 
going' to buy 
a Refrigerator? 



If you are, look 
at the 



"Alaska" 



Made in 
Muskegon. Mich., 

before purchasing. 



It will be sure to 
please you. 



TO THE DISCRIMINATING 
HOUSEKEEPER 

Who uses only the best because she finds 
it the cheapest in the long run, Burnett's 
Extracts are the standard. She uses no 
other, knowing how easily a good dish is 
spoiled by the use of a cheap adulterated 
extract. 

Burnett's Extracts are guaranteed to be 
pure. You should know this for your 
own welfare and that of your family. The 
many adulterated, highly colored and 
falsely labelled extracts on the market to- 
day are not only impossible to tasteful, 
wholesome cooking, but perhaps harmful 
to health. 

The next time you order a bottle of 
Vanilla from your dealer, specify "Bur- 
nett's Vanilla," and then compare it with 
the kind you have been using. A compar- 
ison is all we ask. We shall be satisfied 
after that to abide by your own good 
judgment. If your dealer cannot supply 
you, do not accept some inferior substi- 
tute ; write us, mentioning his name, and 
we will see that you are promptly and 
conveniently supplied. We stand for pure 
goods and an honest label. 

Joseph Burnett Company, 

^6 India Street, Boston. 



Page, 

Cooking With Gas 3 

Baking Bread and Rolls 10 

Baking Cakes 12 

Baking Pastry 11 

Broiling Fish 5 

Broiling Steak 6 

Frying on a Gas Range 9 

Roasting 7 

Toasting 12 

To Plank Fish 4 

Twice Baked Bread 13 

SOUPS. 

Cream of Celery 15 

Cream of Cheese 15 

Cream of Lima Bean 16 

Cream of Pea 17 

Cream of Salmon 17 

Cream of Tomato 18 

Fruit Soup 18 

Soup Stock 13 

Tomato Soup 14 



FISH. 

Clams, Escaloped 32 

Clam Cocktails 32 

Fish Escaloped 22 

Fish Rolls 21 

Turbot in Shells 23 

Halibut, Baked Fillets of 20 

Halibut Baked With Onions 19 

Halibut, Fried 21 

Halibut Steak With Welsh Rarebit 19 

Halibut, Turbans of 20 

Lobster Timbales 26 



Index. 169 

Page. 

Oysters and Sweetbreads 29 

Oysters au Gratin 31 

Oysters Baked With Macaroni 26 

Oyster Cocktails 31 

Oysters, Escaloped 28 

Oysters, Fried 27 

Oysters, Kebobbed 30 

Oysters, Stewed 27 

Pigs in Blankets 29 

Salmon Croquettes 23 

Salmon, Escaloped 24 

Salmon Souffle 25 

Salmon Timbales 25 

Salmon With Sauce Hollandaise 24 

Sardine Balls 32 

MEATS. 

Beef Loaf 38, 39 

Chicken Terrapin 33 

Ham on Toast, Italian 37 

Ham Tasse 37 

Hamburg Steak 38 

Little Veal Rolls 39 

Mutton, Curry 35 

Mutton Pilau 34 

Nut Roll 36 

Sweetbreads, Larded 34 

Veal Cutlets, Baked 36 

MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 

Bechamel Sauce 41 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 44 

Cream Sauce 41 

Cream With Mushrooms 44 

Cream of Horseradish Sauce 41 

Cream of Tomato Sauce 42 

Drawn Butter Sauce 45 

French Hollandaise Sauce 43 

Hollandaise Sauce 43 

Lobster Sauce 42 

Tomato Sauce 43 



1 70 Index. 

ENTREES. 

Page. 

Cheese Timbales 49 

Chicken Croquettes 46 

Chicken Oysters 46 

Chicken Souffle 45 

Chicken Timbales 47 

Salmon Timbales 50 

Sweetbread Croquettes 48 

Tomato Timbales 51 

Veal Balls in Curry Sauce 51 

CHEESE. 

Cheese Balls 52 

Cheese Custards 53 

Cheese Souffle 52 

Macaroni a I'ltalienne 55 

Macaroni au Gratin 54 

Macaroni Creamed With Cheese 54 

EGGS. 

Egg Fondue 58 

Egg Timbales 58 

Eggs au Gratin 56 

Eggs, Frothed 57 

Eggs, Poached, With Tomato Sauce 57 

Omelet, Cheese 56 

Omelet, French 55 

Scalloped Ham and Eggs 58 

Scotch Woodcock 59 

VEGETABLES. 

Cauliflower a la Hollandaise 65 

Corn Oysters 66 

Com Pudding 66 

Cucumbers, Stewed 67 

Peas, Croquettes of 68 

Potato Puff 60 

Potatoes au Gratin 62 

Potatoes, Creamed 61 

Potatoes, Deviled 60 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown 59 

Potatoes on Half Shell 61 



Index. 171 



Page. 

Potatoes, Sweet, Glazed 62 

Potatoes, Sweet, on Half Shell 62 

Rice, Boiled 63 

Spinach With Egg 65 

Spinach With Egg Sauce 63 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 67 

CHAFING DISHES. 

Calf's Liver, Barbecue of 75 

Cheese and Tomato Rarebit 69 

Club House Rarebit 69 

Eggs a la Caracas 73 

Eggs, Chinese 72 

Eggs, French Scrambled 72 

Eggs, Spanish 73 

Fish a la Provencale 75 

Lobster, Delmonico Style 72 

Lobster, Newburg 71 

Oysters, Fricassee of 74 

Oysters, Panned 74 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 70 

Terrapin, Mock 76 

Welsh Rarebit 70 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Cooked Dressing 77 

French Dressing 78 

Fruit Salad Dressing 79 

Mayonnaise Dressing 76 

Sour Cream Dressing 78 

SALADS. 

Apple and Nut Salad 80 

Fruit Salad 81 

Nut and Fruit Salad 81 

Orange and Almond Salad 82 

Shrimp Salad 80 

Sweetbread and Peas 79 

Tomato and Cucumber Salad 82 

Waldorf Salad 80 

Waldorf Salad With Tomato Aspic 79 



172 Index. 

HOT BREADS. 

Page. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 84 

Cinnamon Rolls 86 

Corn Bread 85 

Gems, Wheat 85 

Muffins 83 

Muffins, Corn 84 

Pop Overs 86 

Southern Rice Bread 85 

BREADS. 

Boston Brown 89 

Entire Wheat 87 

Parker House Rolls 90 

Rye Bread 89 

White 88 

DESSERTS. 

Angel Snow 101 

Apple Custard 103 

Apple and Sago Pudding 104 

Apple Snow 102 

Apples, Stuffed 103 

Brown Betty 102 

Caramel Custards Ill 

Fruit Balls 104 

Fruit Toast 90 

Hamburg Cream 94 

Jelly, Alaska 96 

Jelly, Fruit 96 

Jelly, Orange 95 

Macaroon Charlotte 93 

Macaroon Custards 97 

Macaroon Pudding 97 

Macaroon Souffle 99 

Mock Charlotte 105 

Mousse, Caramel 91 

Mousse, Maple 92 

Mousse, Peach 92 

Orange Cream 95 

Peach Cream 91 

Peach Foam 91 

Pineapple Snow 110 



Index. 173 

Page. 

Pudding, Chocolate 109 

Pudding, Cocoanut 108 

Pudding, Date 106 

Pudding, Huckleberry 107 

Pudding, Peach 106 

Puddings, Little Chocolate 109 

Puddings, Queen of 110 

Souffle Chocolate 100 

Souffle, Corn Meal 100 

Souffle, Lemon 101 

Souffle, Omelette 98 

Souffle, Prune 105 

Souffle, Vanilla 99 

Spanish Cream 93 

Strawberry Shortcake 107 

SWEET SAUCES. 

Chocolate, for Ice Cream 114 

Custard 115 

Hard 114 

Lemon 115 

Maple, For Ice Cream 114 

Orange 114 

Vanilla 115 

Yellow 115 

ICES. 

Creme-de-Menthe Ice 113 

French Frozen Pudding 113 

Sherbet, Orange Cream 112 

Sherbet, Sicilian US 

Tea Punch 112 

PASTRY. 

Flaky Pie Crust 118 

Apple Custard Pie 121 

Cream, Orange 120 

Cream, Southern 120 

Cream, German 116 

Lemon 121 

Pumpkin 119 



174 Index. 

MERINGUES. 

Page. 

Meringue, Granulated Sugar 124 

Meringue, Powdered 124 

CAKES, 

Angel Food 125 

Brides' Cake 131 

Caramel 128 

Chocolate Layer 130 

Chocolate Nougat 127 

Cocoanut Cones 135 

Cocoanut Macaroons 135 

Cream Puffs 137 

German Coffee 134 

Gingerbread, English 133 

Ginger Cakes, Sour Cream 136 

Gold 130 

Hermits 138 

Hickory Nut 133 

Marbled 132 

Plunkets 138 

Quick Coffee 134 

Raisin 132 

Spiced Layer 130 

Sponge Drops 127 

Sponge, Layer 126 

Sponge, Old Fashioned 126 

Sunshine 125 

Wafers, Almond, Rolled 140 

Wafers, Vanilla 139 

White Layer 128 

Yellow 129 

ICINGS. 

Boiled 143 

Caramel 141 

Chocolate 141 

Confectioners' 143 

Lemon Filling 144 

Maple 140 

Marshmallow 144 

Orange 143 

Pineapple 140 



Index. 175 

CANDY. 

Page. 

Butter Scotch 146 

Fudge, Chocolate 144 

Fudge, Cocoanut 145 

Fudge, Maple 145 

Maple Cream Bars 146 

Pulled Sugar Taffy 147 

BEVERAGES. 

Choca 154 

Cocoa 153 

Cocoa, Breakfast 154 

Coffee 147 

Coffee, Boiled 149 

Coffee, Filtered 150 

Lemonade 155 

Mint Cordial 156 

Punch, Fruit 155 

Tea 151 

Tea, Iced 153 

Tea, Russian 153 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Barthelow's Food 157 

Beef Tea 157 

Cheese and Nut Balls 161 

Cheese Fingers 159 

Cheese Straws 158 

Cherry Jam 159 

Corn Meal Mush 160 

Egg Nogg 156 

Little Suet Dumplings 161 

Marguerites 158 

Quince Honey 160 

Salted Almonds 164 

Sandwiches, Beef 162 

Sandwiches, Cheese 164 

Sandwiches, Club House 162 

Sandwiches, Fig 163 

Sandwiches, Russian 164 

Sandwiches, Sardine 163 

Swedish Timbale Cases 157 

Waffles 161 



DERRICK PUBLISHING CO., PRINTERS, 
OIL CITY, PA. 



AUG 23 1906 



