PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

AND 

FOOD EXAMINATION 



ALSO BY DR. THRESH. 



THE EXAMINATION OF WATERS AND WATER 
SUPPLIES. With 19 Plates and 11 Figures in the 
taxt. Royal 8vo. 14s. net. 

A SIMPLE METHOD OF WATER ANALYSIS, 

especially designed for the use of Medical Officers of 
Health. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. Gd. 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

AND 

FOOD EXAMINATION 



BY 

JOHN C. THKESH, M.D. (Vic.) D.Sc. (LOND.), F.I.C." 

LECTURER ON PUBLIC HEALTH, LONDON HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE 
MEDICAL OFFICEK OP HEALTH, ESSEX COUNTY COUNCIL, ETC. 

AND 

AETHUK E. POKTEK, M.D.,M.A. (CANTAB.) 

ASSISTANT MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH AND CHIEF SANITARY INSPECTOR, CITY OF LEEDS 
DEMONSTRATOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH, LEEDS UNIVERSITY 





LONDON 
J. & A. C HUE CHILL 

7 GREAT MABLBOEOUGH STEEET 
1906 



PRISTKU BY 

3POTTISWOODE AND CO. LTD., NKW-STREET SQUAUK 
LONDON 



PEE FACE 

THE extraordinary increase, during recent years, in the use of 
preserved foods of various kinds, and especially of foods pre- 
served by the addition of antiseptics, has had far-reaching 
economic results, and the frequent objections made by Public 
Analysts to the use of antiseptics for this purpose have not 
only resulted in much litigation, but have threatened seriously 
to interfere with the development of industries whereby foods, 
produced in countries where there are not sufficient popula- 
tions to consume them, have been transferred to other coun- 
tries where the populations require more than they are able 
themselves to produce. There have not been wanting also 
members of the medical profession who, basing their opinions 
upon theoretical considerations, or upon experience of a very 
limited number of cases in which the use of such foods had 
apparently been followed by evil effects, have strongly objected 
to the use of antiseptics or preservatives. The result has been 
a desire on the part of the importers and preparers of such 
foods, and of the general public, for an inquiry into the whole 
subject, in order that, if possible, the truth might be ascer- 
tained. For this reason a Departmental Committee was 
appointed in 1899 by the President of the Local Government 
Board to inquire into the use of preservatives (and colouring 
matters) in the preservation (and colouring) of food, and to 
report : 

1. Whether the use of such materials, or any of them, in 



vi PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

certain quantities is injurious to health, and, if so, in what 
proportion does their use become injurious ? 

2. To what extent, and in what amounts, are they used at 
the present time ? 

The Committee examined thirty-seven witnesses represent- 
ing trading companies and societies, and forty-one chemists, 
medical men, and professional experts, and in 1901 a Keport 
was issued containing all the evidence, and the conclusions 
arrived at by the members of the Committee as the result of 
their deliberations. The recommendations made by the Com- 
mittee will be referred to elsewhere, but they arrived at the 
very important conclusion that ' the instances of actual harm 
which were alleged to have occurred from the consumption of 
articles of food and drink chemically preserved were few in 
number, and were not all supported by conclusive evidence.' 
-The inquiry showed that practically every person in the 
United Kingdom who has passed the suckling stage consumes 
daily more or less food containing chemical preservatives. It is 
obvious, therefore, that if such food were markedly deleterious 
some conclusive evidence should have been forthcoming. A 
study of our mortality records, however, shows that, during 
the period which has elapsed since such food began to be used, 
the death-rate as a whole has steadily declined, and it is very 
probable that one of the causes of this decline is the better 
feeding of the people in consequence of the introduction of 
cheaper foods, this being rendered possible by the use of 
chemical and other means of preservation. 

A careful study of all that has been written on this subject 
both at home and abroad, and of inquiries made of medical 
practitioners, leads one to the conclusion that the dangers 
arising from the use of preservatives have been greatly exag- 
gerated. It is impossible to say definitely that a single case of 



PREFACE vii 

illness has ever been conclusively traced to the preservative 
used in any article of food or drink. Preservatives have been 
used from time immemorial, and it would certainly be strange 
if with the advance of scientific knowledge better preservatives 
could not be discovered than those which were origin all j 
discovered by uncivilized or semi-civilized man ; yet the old 
preservatives are permitted without question, although some of 
them are more deleterious if taken in immoderate quantities 
than their more modern substitutes. Many articles of food 
contain small quantities of proximate principles of a poisonous 
character, yet no outcry is ever raised for parliamentary in- 
terference with their use ; whereas if minute traces of far less 
potent substances are introduced for the purpose of preventing 
decomposition, with the consequent formation of decidedly 
poisonous products, prosecutions at once follow, and attempts 
are made to show that the Food and Drugs Act is being 
infringed. The fact that the use of certain preservatives is 
prohibited in other countries is often quoted as a proof that in 
those countries the Government have been satisfied that their 
use was attended with danger to the health of the community, 
but when such cases are investigated it is always found that 
there were political reasons for their prohibition, that ' danger 
to health ' was merely a pretext, and that the evidence adduced 
thereof was of the most unconvincing character. 

The subject, however, is one which bristles with difficulties, 
and it may be that certain preservatives either from their 
quality or from their use in excessive quantity have an in- 
jurious effect upon health, and that the further increase in the 
use of preservatives may by their cumulative action dele- 
teriously affect certain organs, or insidiously undermine the 
constitution. Since the issue of the Departmental Commit- 
tee's Keport investigations have been conducted on scientific 



viii PRESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

lines, chiefly in America, and the results, which are referred 
to in the various sections, tend to show that danger may 
be apprehended from the indiscriminate use of certain pre- 
servatives. It may be desirable that there should be some 
restriction as to their employment, and that in certain cases 
their use should be forbidden, as, for example, in milk. The 
reasons for these statements will be found fully set forth in 
the present volume, in which will be found also a summary 
of all the facts elicited by the Departmental Committee, and 
which are scattered through their Eeport. 

The question of the danger, if any, arising from the use of 
colouring matters is a subject of much less importance, but it 
has been deemed desirable to include a chapter dealing with it. 

The Departmental^Committee urged the desirability of the 
appointment of a Court of Reference, such as had previously 
been recommended by the Select Committee on Food Products 
Adulteration (1896), the number of which should not be too 
large, but include at least a chemist, a bacteriologist, a pharma- 
cologist, a physician, a physiologist, and a representative of the 
Public Health Service. Failing this, they suggest that some 
definite obligation should be placed upon the Local Govern- 
ment Board to exercise supervision over the use of preservatives 
and colouring matters in foods. Unfortunately, as yet, no 
action has been taken, and in the Police Courts the most diverse 
decisions are constantly being given, the only right of appeal 
being to Quarter Sessions. Such a condition is in the highest 
degree unsatisfactory, both to the public and to those engaged 
in the preparation or sale of articles of food or drink to which 
preservatives or colouring matters are usually added. 

Closely related with the subject of food preservation is that 
of unsound food, and during recent years it has become notori- 
ous that serious and wide-spread epidemics of illness are 



PKEFACE ix 

attributable to the use of food which has become infected 
with organisms capable of producing disease. We refer, 
amongst others, to the cases of so-called ' ptomaine ' poisoning 
which are so frequently reported, to epidemics of scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, and other forms of illness due to milk, to outbreaks 
of typhoid fever due to contaminated shell-fish, water-cress, 
&c., and to the prevalence of certain forms of tubercular 
disease, probably due to milk from infected cows. 

In other cases, numbers of persons have been seriously 
injured by the use of food or drink which, during the process 
of manufacture, had become impregnated by some poison, such, 
for example, as the epidemic of arsenical poisoning in and 
around Manchester due to beer. 

We are not aware of any work in which this subject of 
unsound food in its relation to health is so fully dealt with as 
in the present volume, and we have endeavoured to make the 
sections relating thereto not only generally interesting, but 
of practical value to Medical Officers of Health, and others 
interested in the nation's welfare. 

Our thanks are due to Mr. Beck for advice re Legal 
Cases, &c., and to Mr. Pratchett for the drawings from which 
the various illustrations have been produced. 

JOHN C. THRESH. 
ARTHUR E. PORTER. 



CONTENTS 



PAKT I 

CHAPTEE I 

PAGE 

Preservation of Food by the Action of High and Low Temperatures, 
Exclusion of Air, &c. Growth of Moulds and Bacteria Effect of 
Temperature Sterilization Pasteurization Befrigeration Exclusion 
of Air Drying Smoking ....... 

CHAPTEB II 

Chemical Preservatives Sodium Chloride and Potassium Nitrate Pharmaco- 
logical Effects of Salt ; Effect on Bacteria Pharmacological Effects of 
Saltpetre ......... 11 

CHAPTER III 

Boron Compounds Germiciclal Powers Pharmacological Effects Salivary 
Digestion Action on Pepsin Action on Bennin Action on Amylopsin 
Action on Trypsin Experiments on Animals Experiments on Children 
Experiments on Adults ....... 16 

CHAPTEB IV 

Formaldehyde Action on Gelatin Action on Ptyalin, Pepsin, Bennin, 
Trypsin, and Amylopsin Experiments on Animals Experiments on 
Children Skin Disease . .56 



Sulphurous Acid and Sulphites Physiological Effect Effect on Animals 

Application to Meat . . . . . . . .70 

CHAPTEB VI . 

Salicylic and Benzoic Acids Presence in Fruits, &c. Effects on Digestive 

Processes Alleged Toxic Effects of Salicylic Acid . . . .78 

CHAPTEB VII 

Fluorine Compounds Pharmacological Action Alum Ammonium Acetate 

Copper Sulphate Sodium Carbonate and Lime Sulphuric Acid . . 87 



xii PRESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



CHAPTER VIII 

PAOK 

Formic Acid Sources of, and Distribution in Animal and Vegetable King- 
dom Pharmacological Effects Alcohol Saccharin Vinegar Peroxide 
of Hydrogen Buddeized Milk - Asaprol Crude Pyroligneous Acid . 91 



PART II 

CHAPTER IX 

Milk Bacteria in Clean and Unclean Milk Antiseptics used in Milk- 
Seasonal Variation in Use of Antiseptics Boron Compounds Formalin 
Preservatives Unnecessary Precautions Necessary for obtaining Clean 
Milk The Cows The Cowsheds The Milkers and Process of Milking 
Refrigeration The Copenhagen Milk Supply Company Pasteurization 
and Sterilization Effect of Heat upon Milk Milk and Infantile Scurvy 
' The Milk Supply Pasteur ' of Copenhagen Inspected Milk Supply of 
New York Preservation by Carbonic Acid and Oxygen Buddeized Milk 
Powdered Milk ........ 97 

CHAPTER X 

Cream, Butter, and Margarine "Preservatives 'usually employed Cream 
used for Infants ^Microbes in Butter Preservatives versus Refrigeration 
Danish, Irish, and Colonial Butters Carriage of Butter Dutch Mar- 
garine Free from Preservatives ...... 137 

CHAPTER XI 

Alcoholic Beverages Yeasts Starters Beer and Cider Salicylic Acid in 
Imported Beers Trade Preparations Wines, Foreign and British 
Medicated Wines ........ 151 

CHAPTER XII 

Temperance Beverages Carbonic 'Acid Gas Aerated Waters Temperance 

Wines Lime Juice Cordials Syrups Fruit Juices . . . 15ft 

. CHAPTER XIII 

Fruits, Jams, and Vegetables Bottled and Tinned Fruits Jams Anti- 
septics usually employed in Jams Fruit Pulp Desiccated Vegetables 
Sauces and Ketchups . . . . . .162 

CHAPTER XIV 

Meat, Game, Eggs, and Fish Salting and Pickling Bacon, Mild and Salt 
Increased Use of Boric Acid Amount Absorbed by Bacon Sausages 
Pork Pies Smoked Meat Drying Game Poultry Eggs Fish 
Refrigeration Smoking Pyroligneous Acid . . 165> 



CONTENTS xiii 

PAKT III 

CHAPTER XV 

PAQK 

Colouring Matters used in Food and Drink Government Laboratory Table 

Vegetable Colours Mineral Colours Copper Aniline Dyes . . 173 

CHAPTER XVI 

Mineral Poisons which may occur in Food and Drink Arsenic Epidemics 
of Arsenical Poisoning Classes of Foods in which Arsenic may occur 
Physiological Effects of Minute Doses of Arsenic Arsenic and Moulds 
Antimony in Aerated Beverages Lead and Tin in Canned Goods and 
other Articles of Food Copper ...... 191 

PART IV 

CHAPTER XVII 

The Law relating to Food Inspection The Public Health Act, 1875 The 
Public Health Acts (Amendment) Act, 1890 The Markets and Fairs 
Clauses Act Qualifications of a Food Inspector .... 205 

CHAPTER XVIII 

Unsound Food Meat Public Abattoirs Veterinary Inspection of Animals 
Characteristics of sound Meat Emergency Slaughter Early Signs of 
Putrefaction Immature Animals Tubercular Diseases Anthrax 
Black-leg or Quarter-evil Braxy Swine-fever Swine Erysipelas 
Diphtheria Septicffiinia Rinderpest Pleuro-pneumonia Tetanus 
Cow-pox and Vaccinated Animals -Rabies Glanders Foot-and-Mouth 
Disease Actinomycosis Poultry and Game . . . .211 

CHAPTER XI 

Animal Parasites Trichinosis Taenia mediocanellata -Tsenia Solium 
Bothriocephalus latus Echinococcus Distoma hepaticum and lan- 
ceolatum Round Worms Pentastomes Coccidia Sarcosporidia 
Protozoa Trypanosomata ....... 230 

CHAPTER XX 
Fish Shell-fish Green Oysters Typhoid Fever and Shell-fish Caviare . 246 

CHAPTER XXI 

The Bacteriological Examination of Shell-fish Detection of the Bacillus 
coli Houston's Method of Examination Klein's Method Detection of 
the Bacillus typhosus . . . ... . . 257 



xiv PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

CHAPTER XXII 

PAOB 

Milk and Dairy Produce Milk and Tubercular Diseases Diphtheria 
Typhoid Fever Scarlet Fever and Cholera in relation to Milk 
Epidemics of Sore-throat due to Milk Skin Disease alleged due to 
Preservatives in Milk Unsound Milk Unwholesome Condensed Milk 
Seizure of dirty Milk Cream Ice Cream Butter Cheese Eggs . 266 

CHAPTER XXIII 

Examination of Milk and Dairy Produce Collection and Examination of 
Sediment Pus Corpuscles Streptococci Tubercle Bacilli Diphtheria 
Bacilli Organisms of Intestinal Origin Oidium Lactis Enumeration of 
Bacteria Difference between Raw and Boiled Milk Condensed Milk- 
Cream and Ice-cream Butter Cheese ..... 284 

CHAPTER XXIV 

Unsound Fruit Vegetables and Corn Typhoid Fever due to Uncooked 
Vegetables Hydatid Disease Mushrooms and Allied Fungi Cereals, 
and their Animal and Vegetable Parasites Bread Fruit Tinned Fruits 
and Vegetables ........ 292 

CHAPTER XXV 

Food-poisoning frequently due to the Use of Preserved Foods Tinned 
Meats Flesh of Swine Food-poisoning generally an Infective Disease 
Outbreaks Investigated by the Local Government Board Proteid De- 
composition and its Products Ptomaines Toxins Intoxication versus 
Infection Micro-organisms associated with Food-poisoning . . 303 

CHAPTER XXVI 

Examination of Food suspected of causing Disease Detection of Ptomaines 

Of Toxins Of Tyrotoxicon Isolation of specific Bacteria . . 322 



PART V 

CHAPTER XXVII 

Detection and Estimation of Boron Compounds Of Sulphurous Acid and 
Sulphites Of Fluorine Compounds Of Formaldehyde Of Salicylic Acid 
Of Benzoic Acid Of Formic Acid Of Hydrogen Peroxide Of Abrastol 328 

CHAPTER XXVIII 

Detection and Estimation of Metallic Impurities Arsenic Lead Copper- 
Tin Antimony ...... . 357 



CONTENTS XV 

CHAPTER XXIX 

PAOK 

Examination for Coal-tar Colours ...... 369 

CHAPTER XXX 

Deceptive Appearances Foaming Preparations used in Beverages Pharma- 
cological Effects of Saponin Composition and Detection of Saponin 
Facing of Rice ........ 371 

CHAPTER XXXI 

Legal Cases The Food and Drugs' Act Prosecutions relating to Boric 
Acid To Formaldehyde To Salicylic Acid To Copper in Peas, A-C. 
Prosecutions relating to Unsound Food High Court Decisions . . 375 

APPENDIX I 

Abstracts from Report of the Departmental Committee on the Use of 
Preservatives and Colouring Matters in Articles of Food and Drink . 431 

APPENDIX II 

Law and Practice in certain Foreign Countries and the Colonies as to 

Preservatives and Colouring Matters in Foods .... 435> 



PLATES 

I. ACTINOMYCES. TRICHINA SPIRALIS 443 

II. TRICHINA SPIRALIS 445 

III. T.ENIA MEDIOCANELLATA. CYSTICERCUS Bovis AND CELLULOS.E. 

BOTHRIOCEPHALUS LATUS. T.ENIA EcHINOCOCCPS .... 447 

IV. ECHINOCOCCUS CYSTS 440 

V. DISTOMA. PENTASTOMUM. COCCIDIA. MIESCHER'S SACS. DEPOSIT 

FROM UNCLEAN MILK 451 

VI. VIISRIO TRITICI. TYROGLYPHUS FABINJE. PENICILLIUM. ASPEROILLCS 453 

VII. MUCOR MUCEDO. LOLIUM TEMrLENTUH. UsTILAGO SEGETU1T. UlSEDO 

FCETIDA 455 

VIII. DAMAGED FLOCR. CRUSHED WHEAT GRAIX. MAIZE. MOULDY JAM . 457 



INDEX 45JV 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 



AND 



FOOD EXAMINATION 



PART I 

CHAPTEE I 

PRESERVATION OF FOOD BY THE ACTION OF HIGH OR 
LOW TEMPERATURES, EXCLUSION OF AIR, ETC. 

THE changes which a food undergoes when it ' goes bad ' may 
be said to be due exclusively to the propagation and multi- 
plication of micro-organisms moulds, yeasts, and bacteria 
and the products, deleterious or otherwise, of such changes are 
a part of the life-history of the organisms in question. 

Speaking generally, these micro-organisms will only grow 
in the presence of moisture and between certain temperatures. 
Multiplication rarely takes place below about 10 C. (though 
bacteria and spores will survive exposure to a temperature 
of 180 C.), and ceases as a rule above 40 C. 

Nearly all bacteria are killed when submitted to a tem- 
perature of about 65 C. for a short time, although their spores 
are not destroyed unless heated to 100 C. or over for a few 
minutes. A few ' thermophylic ' bacteria, chiefly found in soil 
and water, appear to thrive best between 60 C. and 70 C.. 
but these are not concerned with the changes in food with 
which we are dealing. To take a concrete instance, it has 
keen found that the Bacillus acidi lactici, one of the most 

1 



2 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

important organisms concerned with the souring of milk, will 
not multiply below 10 C., that it begins to produce lactic acid 
at 15 C., and that this action reaches a maximum between 
35 and 40 C., and ceases at 45-5 C. 

Hence it is obvious that if a food is heated for a short time 
to 100 C. (or better to 105-110 C. under pressure), and 
afterwards stored in such a manner that no organisms can 
obtain access, bacteria, pathogenic or otherwise, will be 
destroyed, and the food will keep indefinitely. 

If heated to 65-70 C. for about twenty minutes, all the 
bacteria will be killed, and only their spores, if present, will 
remain. Fermentation and decomposition will therefore be 
arrested either until fresh bacteria have obtained access and 
have multiplied, or until the spores have germinated. As all 
the principal pathogenic organisms, with the exception of 
those which cause anthrax, tetanus, and possibly epidemic 
diarrhosa, are non-sporing, they will be destroyed by this 
process. The tubercle bacillus is somewhat more resistant 
than most of the non-sporing bacteria, but it has been shown 
that in the case of milk a temperature of 60 C. for twenty 
minutes is sufficient to destroy it, if the heating takes place 
in a closed vessel so that no film is formed on the surface. 
Otherwise a temperature of 65-70 C. for twenty minutes is 
necessary for this purpose. 

If, thirdly, the food is kept below 10 C., bacterial multi- 
plication will be held in check until the temperature again 
rises. 

These three processes are known as sterilization, pas- 
teurization, and refrigeration, respectively. 

Sterilization is employed chiefly for tinned foods, the tins 
being hermetically sealed during the process, and it is also 
applied to milk. 

In the case of sound meat adequately sterilized, there are 
no disadvantages except such as may possibly arise from the 
solution of the metal, but in that of milk there are several 
drawbacks. 



PEESEEVATION OF FOOD BY HEAT, COLD, ETC. 3 

In the first place, the milk has a ' cooked ' taste ; in the 
second, it is generally held to be less digestible, owing to the 
changes produced by heat on the proteid constituents ; and, 
thirdly, many physicians consider that infants fed exclusively 
on sterilized milk are liable to a somewhat serious, but com- 
paratively rare, disease known as infantile scurvy, or scurvy 
rickets. The evidence on which this view is based is not 
entirely conclusive, and the relationship has been doubted by 
many eminent members of the medical profession. It will be 
more fully considered in a later section. 

The disease is readily prevented by the addition of suitable 
articles of diet, and usually is quickly cured by the adminis- 
tration of the requisite antiscorbutic food : nevertheless, the 
possibility of its occurrence is, unless the relationship be 
disproved, a sufficient reason for hesitating to recommend 
indiscriminate sterilization, since other methods of maintaining 
the milk in a suitable condition are available. 

A further drawback lies in the necessity of the distribution 
of the milk in bottles, which afterwards require collecting and 
carefully washing. In spite of this difficulty the sterilization 
of milk is practised largely in Paris and Denmark, and the 
Aylesbury Dairy Company do a considerable trade in bottled 
(sterilized) milk. The Walker-Gordon Company supply un- 
treated milk in bottles, and contend that there is an advantage 
in so doing, as the risk of contamination is reduced. 

The compensating advantages are chiefly that, in addition 
to the keeping qualities of the milk, all germs, pathogenic and 
otherwise, are destroyed, and that a single daily delivery is 
sufficient. 

Pasteurization, though applied to wines and beer, is chiefly 
used for milk and cream. It is carried on to a small extent in 
England, and to a larger extent in Denmark and other Con- 
tinental countries. If, immediately after the heating process 
is completed, the milk is rapidly cooled, the ' cooked ' flavour 
is not noticed. Pasteurization is also less likely to render 
the milk indigestible, or to produce infantile scurvj 7 , than 



4 PRESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

sterilization, and it will be equally efficient in destroying the 
pathogenic germs usually conveyed by this fluid. 

On the other hand, since any spores present are unaffected, 
they will in time propagate bacteria at a suitable temperature, 
and, though the keeping period of the milk is considerably 
extended, decomposition is not indefinitely postponed. 

Refrigeration. As has already been pointed out, refrigera- 
tion is only a temporary means of arresting fermentation, 
which recommences as soon as the temperature rises above 
about 10 C. 

It is used chiefly in the case of fresh meat, poultry, 
game, fish, and dairy products, the temperature employed 
varying according to the time during which storage is 
necessary. 

Thus for meat, imported into England from abroad, the 
freezing chambers are kept at about 15 to 20 F. The meat 
is frozen into a hard mass, which may take some days to 
resume its natural condition when removed from the chamber. 
It is held by some that the flavour is partially destroyed by 
this process, but this opinion is not universal. Aiter thawing, 
the meat appears to become tainted somewhat more rapidly 
than fresh meat, though possibly this largely depends on 
the interval which has elapsed between slaughtering and 
refrigeration. Frozen meat is equally as nutritious and equally 
as digestible as fresh meat. 

Some large cold-storage firms have certain of their chambers 
maintained at about 20 F., and in these all kinds of flesh are 
stored for an indefinite period, whilst others are kept at about 
44 F., and are used for meat which only requires storage for a 
week or two. 

These low temperatures are attained by the compression 
and subsequent expansion of ammonia vapour. The cold 
produced by the expansion is communicated to brine, and 
thence to air, previously filtered, which is allowed to circulate 
through the chambers. 

An attempt has been made to apply the refrigerating 



PEESERVATION OF FOOD BY HEAT, COLD, ETC. 5 

process to hams imported in a fresh state from America, to 
be cured in England, but it has not proved to be a financial 
success. 

In the case of butter, Mr. James Riley l stated that New 
Zealand butter, containing no preservative other than a small 
quantity of salt, would keep for about three weeks after re- 
moval from the refrigerating chamber, and Dr. Voelcker's 
experiences with Australian butter under similar circumstances 
corroborated this. 2 

In the case of milk such low temperatures, although perhaps 
desirable, are not essential, since forty-eight hours should be 
an ample period between the times when the cow is milked 
and the milk is consumed. 

The relationship between the temperature and the multi- 
plication of bacteria in milk has been investigated by Freuden- 
reich and others. Expressing the number of organisms present 
at the commencement of the experiments as unity, Freuden- 
reich 3 found that the numbers at different intervals and at 
various temperatures were as follows : 






3 hours 


6 hours 9 hours 


24 hours 


59 F. 


1 


2-5 


5 


163 


77 F. 


2 


18-5 


107 


62,100 


95 F. 


4 


1,290 3,800 


5,370 



It will be noticed that at 59 F. (15 C.) little multiplication 
takes place for nine hours, while at the temperature of a warm 
summer's day the increase at the end of twenty-four hours is 
enormous ; this is probably largely due to common species of 
saprophytic bacteria, which grow more readily at this tem- 
perature than at one approaching that of the body, since at 
95 F. the increase, which is more strongly marked in six and 
nine hours than that at the lower temperature, is not main- 
tained. 

1 Report of Departmental Committee on the Use of Preservatives in Food. 

z Ibid. 3 Newman's Bacteriology and the Public Health, 1904, p. 185. 



6 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Another example is furnished by Professor Conn 1 in the 
subjoined table : 

NUMBER OF BACTERIA PER CUBIC CENTIMETRE ix MILK KEPT AT DIFFERENT 

TEMPERATURES 



No. at outset 


In 12 hours at 
50 F. 


In 12 hours at 
70 F. 


In 50 hours at 
50 F. 


In 50 hours or at time of 
cunlliug at 70 F. 


46,000 
47,000 
50,000 


39,000 
44,800 
35,000 


249,500 
360,000 
800,000 


1,500,000 
127,500 
160,000 


542,000,000 
792,000,000 36 hours 
2,560,000,000 42 hours 



Mr. James Long ' 2 stated that, according to one of the largest 
provincial dairy companies in England, milk, if cooled to 54 F., 
will keep for twenty-four hours, and, if first strained and 
afterwards cooled, for thirty-six to forty hours in the hottest 
weather. 

Dr. Schidrowitz, 3 by estimating the acidity of samples of 
milk cooled at once to 50 F., and subsequently kept at a 
temperature not greater than 60 F., found that the milk 
remained in a satisfactory condition for sixty hours, whilst 
without such treatment it would not keep for more than half 
this time. He further found that this process of cooling was 
more efficacious for the preservation of milk than the addition 
of 1 in 50,000 formalin, or 1 in 2,000 boric acid to uncooled 
milk. 

The whole subject of milk preservation will be fully dealt 
with in a separate section, as it is of the greatest practical 
importance both to the dairy farmer and the general public. 

Exclusion of Air. The enclosure of food substances in 
hermetically sealed coverings may be adopted subsequently to 
sterilization, as in the case of tinned meat and fish preparations, 
fresh and condensed milk, and the like, or it may be employed 
without such previous treatment as, for instance, the coating 
of fresh eggs with sodium silicate or the plunging of lard into 
boiling water. 

Under both circumstances the effects are twofold : evapora- 
tion and oxidation are prevented, and micro-organisms are 

1 Newman's Bacteriology and the Public Health, 1904, p. 185. 
Report of Departmental Committee. a Ibid. 



PKESEBVATION OP FOOD BY HEAT, COLD, ETC. 7 

excluded. Where complete sterilization is combined with the 
exclusion of air no putrefaction or fermentation can take place, 
and the food should remain unchanged indefinitely. During the 
process of sterilization practically all the air present in solution 
or in the interstices of the food is driven out, so that exclusion 
of air is complete. 

It is unnecessary to mention the different classes of food 
which are preserved in this manner, since innumerable 
instances will suggest themselves. 

The drawbacks to this method lie chiefly in failure to 
ensure sterilization, and, in the case of tinned foods, in the 
solution of the tin or solder by the juices of the food, with the 
consequent danger (?) of metallic poisoning. 

In the first case, putrefaction, when it has occurred to a 
considerable extent in a tinned food, is recognized by the 
' blown ' condition of the tin, by the absence of the inrush of 
air when it is opened, and by the resonant note elicited when 
the unopened tin is tapped. Such food often gives rise to 
symptoms of ptomaine poisoning, characterised by vomiting, 
diarrhoea, cramps, pyrexia, and prostration. 

Tin, zinc, and lead have been found in the food thus 
preserved, but this danger is avoided when glass or earthen- 
ware receptacles are used in place of tins. 

Instead of entirely excluding the air, meat has been 
preserved by removing a portion, and destroying the remainder 
of the oxygen by sodium sulphite (M'Call's process). 1 

Another method (Jones and Trevithick's process) consists 
in withdrawing the air, and substituting nitrogen and a little 
sulphur dioxide. 2 

Processes of this character are not extensively employed, 
since the bacteria must be previously destroyed, and providing 
this has been done effectually, and the exclusion of air is 
perfect, the food will keep for an indefinite period, and it 
matters nothing whether the gases left in the food itself 
consist of oxygen, nitrogen, or any other innocuous gas. 

1 Notter and Firth, Theory and Practice of Hygiene, p. 362. '' Ibid. 



8 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

During 1901 the Inland Bevenue Department of the 
Dominion of Canada sent schedules to medical practitioners in 
the various provinces asking for information as to whether any 
cases of illness, apparently attributable to the use of tinned 
foods, had occurred in their practices within recent years. 

Out of 1,313 schedules sent, 254 affirmative replies were 
received. 

In many cases the illness was attributed to the presence of 
metallic salts in the food, taken up from the solder or lining of 
the can. It is exceedingly doubtful, however, whether any 
preserved food of this character can take up sufficient metal to 
produce harmful effects, and the illnesses recorded were more 
probably due to some change which had taken place in the 
food-stuff with the production of ptomaines or other noxious 
bodies, either before or after the canning process, or to bacteria 
or their spores which had survived the process, and which, 
when introduced into the human alimentary canal, increased 
and multiplied, and there produced poisonous substances giving 
rise to nausea, diarrhoea, or febrile and other symptoms. 

Canned food which has produced symptoms of poisoning 
has frequently presented some peculiarity in appearance, odour, 
or taste, indicating that the food had undergone change. 

Drying". It has already been mentioned that micro-organ- 
isms require moisture for their growth. Hence by thoroughly 
drying a food microbic fermentation is inhibited. 

An example in the case of meat is furnished by the ' biltong ' 
of the Boers. Many of the proprietary invalid and infant foods 
are prepared in this way, such as Liebig's food and Horlick's 
malted milk. 

Bread dried by heat forms the ' pain biscuite ' of the 
French army, while vegetables, fruit, and white of egg are like- 
wise preserved by drying. Dried potatoes are either sliced or 
granulated, and after soaking become very palatable ; and the 
same is also true of dried green vegetables. They are said to 
be less efficient as antiscorbutics than fresh vegetables, but are 
valuable for many purposes. Even milk may be dried and 



PRESEKVATION OF FOOD BY HEAT, COLD, ETC. 9 

powdered, and if kept dry will remain sweet indefinitely, but 
whether, when mixed with water, it forms a liquid with the 
properties of the original milk remains to be proved. This 
simple method of preserving food has not, as yet, been utilised 
as fully as it might be with advantage. 

Smoking*. Several articles of food are frequently preserved 
by being exposed to the smoke from smouldering wood or saw T - 
dust. During this process they are partially dried and the 
material absorbs certain antiseptic substances from the smoke, 
the ultimate flavour depending upon the extent of the smoking 
and the nature of the material used to produce the smoke. 
Creosote is probably one of the active antiseptic agents. It is 
a very poisonous substance, and doubtless a great outcry 
would be raised were anyone to attempt to use it for pre- 
serving food, but so long as it is introduced into the food 
in an old-fashioned manner no objections are raised. It is 
only when someone wishes to improve upon ancient methods 
that the effect of prejudice and conservatism makes itself felt. 
It has never been alleged, so far as we are aware, that smoked 
meat is unwholesome, though its digestibility is almost 
certainly impaired. Any modern system of preserving which 
affected the digestibility to a similar degree would be strongly 
condemned. 1 

Two kinds of smoking are practised, the slow and the rapid 
methods. In the former, the meat is exposed to the smoke for 
several days at a temperature of about 25 C. ; and in the latter, 
largely used in the case of fish, smoke at a temperature of 
70 to 100 C. is employed for a few hours. The best woods 
for producing smoke are said to be juniper bushes, beech chips 
with juniper berries, and tan-bark with mahogany chips. Fir 
chips are not desirable, as they affect the taste of the meat 
unfavourably. 

Smoke has a powerfully destructive effect on cultures of 

1 Reference is made in Chapter XV. on ' Colouring Matters ' to a preparation 
called ' Smokene,' consisting of borax, salt, creosote, and a red coal-tar dye ; by 
the external use of this, hams and tongues may appear to have been well smoked. 



10 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

pathogenic organisms, even anthrax spores being destroyed 
within eighteen hours. Judging from experiments made, 
however, with artificially infected meat, the process of smoking 
appears to act less energetically, the smoke penetrating with 
difficulty through the layer of coagulated albumen formed on 
the surface of the meat. Consequently if the interior of a 
portion of meat be infected with pathogenic germs, although 
these may be held in check by desiccation, it is improbable that 
they will be destroyed. 



CHAPTEE II 

CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 

SODIUM CHLORIDE AND POTASSIUM NITRATE. 
SALT AND SALTPETRE 

Salt. Common salt is probably the oldest preservative in 
use, and it certainly is the commonest, since it occurs in 
practically every sample of ham, bacon, other forms of salted 
meat, salted fish, butter, and cheese in the market. It is 
frequently employed in conjunction with saltpetre, and less 
often with boron compounds. 

Many of the preparations used for this purpose contain 
from 90 to 100 per cent, of sodium chloride, others consist of 
varying proportions of salt and saltpetre, whilst ' Preservitas,' a 
substance largely employed by the butter trade, contains 47'8 
per cent, of boric acid, 8-6 per cent, of saltpetre, and 11-1 per 
cent, of sodium chloride. 1 

Before the introduction of the boron compounds both ham 
and butter were very strongly salted, the butter containing even 
as much as 15 per cent., whilst 6 to 8 per cent, were common 
proportions. Such large quantities would not now be tolerated, 
and mild butters usually have less than 2 per cent, of sodium 
chloride, while some contain none at all. The strongly salted 
butters keep sweet for a sufficiently long time for trade purposes, 
but there is no doubt that mild butter, made in the manner 
usually adopted in the British Isles and the Colonies, would 
be rancid long before it was consumed, if no more than 2 per 
cent, of salt were added. 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. (The composition of this and similar 
substances is not necessarily a constant one, and different samples of ' Preservitas ' 
may give different analytical results.) 



12 

Reference will be made to experiments on this point under 
the heading of ' Boron Compounds,' and it will be sufficient 
here to say that in one instance it was found that after nine 
months butter containing even 6 per cent, of salt had become 
uneatable. 

In one of the Cork creameries, 1 however, where the butter 
is made from pasteurized cream with the aid of a ' starter,' it 
has been found that 3 per cent, of salt is sufficient to keep the 
butter from two to three months. 

In the case of hams, occasionally the salt pickle is injected, 
but more usually the meat is kept in a dry mixture of salt or 
salt and saltpetre for a week to a fortnight, and is then for 
export purposes packed in boric acid. Formerly such hams 
were packed in salt, and the process of curing proceeded during 
the voyage, but even these highly salted hams were liable to 
become tainted and fly-blown. 2 

Sodium chloride differs from all the other principal chemical 
preservatives not only in being an absolutely essential article 
of diet, but also in occurring in considerable quantities in the 
human body, more especially in the fluid tissues. It is readily 
excreted by the kidneys. 

Deprivation of salt by use of a diet from which it is normally 
absent leads to general weakness, anaemia, and redema, as was 
evidenced in France before the repeal of the Salt Tax. The 
acid radicle is required for the formation of the hydrochloric 
acid, without which peptic digestion would not be efficiently 
carried on. 

In large quantities of a tablespoonful and upwards, salt 
acts as a mild emetic, and may also purge, indicating that 
it exerts an irritative effect on the gastro-intestinal mucous 
membrane. 

This is borne out by Liebreich's 3 observations on the 
action of solutions of sodium chloride on the gastro-intestinal 
epithelium of a dog, to which reference will be made later. 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 2 Ibid. 

3 Effects of Borax and Boric Acid on tlie Human System. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 13 

Distinct signs of inflammation were observed when the salt 
was present to the extent of 5 per cent. 

Scurvy was formerly ascribed to the use of salted foods, but 
this theory has since been disproved, although the etiology of 
the disease is still a disputed point. 

Braithwaite l has suggested a causal relationship between 
the consumption of salt and the production of malignant 
disease, but his arguments are not convincing. 

Luff has found that sodium chloride hinders the solution of 
biurate of soda, and hence considers that it is contra-indicated 
in gout. 

Beyond this, however, there is no evidence pointing to the 
production of deleterious results by the consumption of salt in 
moderate quantities, and it cannot with our present knowledge 
be considered a dangerous substance in the proportions used 
for the preservation of food. It will be observed, however, 
that it labours under the disadvantage urged so strongly against 
the use of other preservatives, viz. that in large quantities it 
produces ill effects, that it is contra-indicated in certain diseased 
conditions, and that it may render food less amenable to certain 
of the digestive processes. 

Experiments have been made in Amsterdam by Professor 
J. Forster and Heer de Freytag as to the effect of salting or 
pickling meat on various forms of bacteria. It was found 
that cholera bacilli were soon destroyed under the influence 
of abundance of salt, but that tubercle and typhoid bacilli, 
staphylococci, the streptococcus of erysipelas, and the bacilli of 
porcine infectious diseases retained their vitality for weeks or 
even months. Portions of the viscera of a tuberculous animal, 
preserved for a considerable time in salt, were found capable of 
causing tuberculosis in a healthy animal when introduced into 
the peritoneal cavity. On the other hand, 1\ per cent, of salt 
destroyed anthrax bacilli in the spleen of an animal in about 
eighteen hours. 

Obviously, therefore, salting has little effect upon many of 
1 Lancet, 1901, vol. ii. 



14 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

the bacteria found in unsound meat. These organisms remain 
as it were in a dormant condition until such time as they are 
freed from the influence of the salt, when they may again 
multiply and increase. 

Saltpetre. As mentioned under the heading of ' Salt,' 
saltpetre (using this term to include both the potassium and 
sodium salts) is largely used in salted meats, and to some extent 
in butter, and reference has been made to the change which 
has taken place in the quantity of these substances used since 
the adoption of boron compounds as preservatives. 

Pharmacologically there are, however, considerable differ- 
ences between the chloride and nitrate of sodium and of 
potassium. Potassium nitrate is liable to produce nausea, 
vomiting, and diarrhoea, and in large doses tends to inflame 
the urinary passages, causing hsematuria ; it is also a cardiac 
depressant, owing chiefly to the basic radicle, since all potassium 
salts exert this effect to some extent. Small doses are diuretic 
and diaphoretic, and the drug is occasionally administered for 
this purpose in doses from 5 to 20 grains. Excretion takes 
place chiefly through the kidneys. 

Liebreich l has investigated the effect of saltpetre on some 
of the digestive ferments. On ptyalin he found that no 
influence was exerted when the salt was present in the pro- 
portion of \ per cent. 

In the case of pepsin 0'5 gramme of the ferment, 0'8 gramme 
hydrochloric acid, and O5 gramme albumen were put into each 
of several flasks, and varying quantities of saltpetre were added, 
together with water up to 100 c.c. The flasks were kept at 
98-6 F. for twenty-four hours, after which the quantity of 
albumen digested was estimated. It was found that, when the 
saltpetre was present to the extent of O'l per cent., only three- 
quarters of the albumen was digested as compared with a 
control experiment, whilst when it reached a strength of 0'5 
per cent, digestion ceased. 

' Effects of Borax and Boric Acid on tlie, Human System. 



15 

On amylopsin, saltpetre up to 1 per cent, appeared to be 
without influence. 

The same observer ' gave 3 grammes of saltpetre daily in 
addition to ordinary food to a dog weighing 28 kilogrammes. 
After thirty-six days the dog had lost 5 '4 kilogrammes in 
weight (19'4 per cent.), and had suffered for several days from 
diarrhoea, to which no doubt the loss of weight was largely 
due. 

Liebreich 2 also investigated the action of saltpetre on the 
gastro-intestinal epithelium of a dog, and found that a certain 
amount of inflammation was caused by a \ per cent, solution, 
and that this became well marked when the strength reached 
2 per cent. 

Experimental and clinical evidence therefore indicate that 
saltpetre has the power of inducing irritation and inflammation 
of the epithelium of mucous membranes, and cannot be 
considered an inert substance. 

The experiments with pepsin also suggest that meat pickled 
with saltpetre is more difficult of digestion in the stomach than 
ordinary meat, although it is a matter of clinical experience 
that in some cases of flatulent dyspepsia meat thus cured is, 
if carefully masticated, more readily taken than other forms of 
flesh. 

The question, whether the quantity of saltpetre present in 
articles of food is sufficient to produce the inflammatory effects 
referred to, is difficult to answer, since, although the proportions 
used for curing are known, the quantity absorbed by the meat 
is not easy to estimate. It is fairly obvious, however, that if 
long custom had not sanctioned the use of this drug as a 
preservative, such use would be strongly condemned by those 
who have the supervision of the purity of our food supplies. 

1 Loc. cit. 2 Loc. cit. 



CHAPTEE III 

CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES (continued} 

Boron Compounds 

WITH the exception of salt, boron, in the form of borax or 
boric acid, or a mixture of each, has probably a more extensive 
application than any other chemical preservative. The presence 
of one or other of these compounds has been detected in milk, 
cream, butter, margarine, ham and bacon, fresh meat, salted 
beef, salted pork, game, poultry, venison, pickled tongue, 
sausages, pork pies, polonies, minced meat, potted meat, meat 
extracts, fresh and smoked fish, potted fish, shell-fish, caviare, 
eggs, lime-juice, lemon squash, wines, ales, fruit juices, vinegar, 
condensed milk, rennet, and cakes for feeding cattle. 1 

As a rule mixtures of the two substances in a solid or 
liquid form are sold for use under various trade names, though 
occasionally one or other is employed in a pure state ; some- 
times salicylic acid is added. Thus ' Sal Preservare ' has been 
found to consist of 42'6 per cent, of anhydrous boric acid 
mixed with 15-15 per cent, of borax; ' Preservitas ' of 39*5 
per cent, of the former and 26'8 per cent, of the latter. 
' Arcticanus ' and ' Conservare ' on analysis have yielded 85'5 
per cent, of boric acid, the remainder being borax. ' Burton's 
Household Milk and Food Preservative ' appears to consist 
solely of boric acid, whilst ' Health Guard ' has been found 
to contain boric acid combined with soda and salicylic acid. 2 

Borax and boric acid both possess very feeble germicidal 
powers. A saturated solution of the latter in water contains 
less than 4 per cent, of the salt, and has no effect on the 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. '-' Ibid. 



CHEMICAL PEESERVATIVES 



17 



spores of the Bacillus anthracis, and is unable to kill pus cocci 
after five hours' exposure, but Koch found that anthrax bacilli 
cease to multiply in a medium containing O12 per cent, (about 
10' 5 grains per pint). 

Borax is effective in about the same proportions. 

Both of these compounds nevertheless appear to have the 
power of inhibiting the organisms which cause the souring of 
milk in even more dilute solutions. 

Several observers have made experiments in this direction, 
and their results are on the whole concordant. 

Rideal and Foulerton ' found that milk curdled on being 
heated to 100 C. as soon as the acidity expressed as lactic 
acid reached the proportion of O25 per cent., and they took 
this figure as the point at which the milk might be considered 
sour and unfit for sale. They found that by adding 35 grains 
of a commercial mixture of boric acid and borax to a gallon of 
milk (equivalent to O05 per cent.) the souring point was 
delayed, and milk so treated would remain uncurdled for more 
than twenty-four hours at 75 F., whilst without such addition 
souring took place within that period. Apparently this is the 
smallest quantity which can be relied upon to keep milk sweet 
for twenty-four hours in warm weather. 

Mr. H. Droop Richmond, analyst to the Aylesbury Dairy 
Company, furnished the Departmental Committee with a similar 
set of figures, showing the number of hours during which 
milk will keep sweet at various temperatures with and without 
boric acid : 





Boric preservative added to milk, per cent. 


Temperature F. 




0-05 


0-10 




None 


(4 '4 grains per pint) 


(8-8 grains per pint) 




Hours 


Hours 


Hours 


60 


50 


84 


110 


70 


34 


43 


54 


80 


22 


26 


36 


90 


15 


18 


27 


100 


9 


12 


23 



Public Health, 1899. 



18 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The point at which the milk might be considered sour was 
slightly lower than that taken by Kideal and Foulerton, and 
was equivalent to an increase of 25 degrees of acidity (i.e. 
100 c.c. of milk required 25 c.c. more N/10 soda solution to 
neutralise it with phenol-phthalein as the indicator than when 
the milk was quite fresh). 

It will thus be seen that with the smaller quantity of 
preservative there is a gain of thirty-four, nine, and four hours 
respectively at the temperatures usually met with during the 
warmer months in England, whilst with twice this quantity the 
figures are sixty, twenty, and fourteen hours respectively. 
When the temperature is 80 F. the advantage gained by the 
use of 4-4 grains of preservative per pint is almost negligible. 

It is, however, open to doubt whether in these experiments 
the souring of milk can be taken as a true index of the 
various fermentative changes actually taking place. Many 
"chemical reagents have, to some extent, a selective action as 
regards the inhibition of the growth of bacteria. Bacillus 
coli and Bacillus typhosus will, for instance, grow readily as a 
rule in broth containing 0*05 per cent, of phenol, whilst most 
other bacteria are inhibited, and it is not therefore safe to take 
for granted that boric acid and borax act alike on all the 
organisms present in milk. Moreover, lactic acid is a product 
of carbohydrate fermentation, and is therefore unreliable as a 
criterion of any proteid decomposition that may be taking 
place simultaneously, and it is worth bearing in mind that it 
is by the latter kind of change that ptomaines and other 
poisonous bodies, which appear to be the causal agents in 
cases of food poisoning, are formed. 

Dr. Blaxall, 1 after a series of experiments, came to the 
conclusion that boric acid inhibited first the organisms pro- 
ducing lactic acid, then those giving rise to butyric acid, whilst 
certain vegetable moulds proved most resistant. 

Delepine 2 has shown that one of the most important group 
of bacteria having a causal relationship to summer diarrhoaa is 
1 Report of Departmental Committee. 2 Trans. Epidem. Soc. vol. xxii. 



CHEMICAL PEESERVATIVES 19 

the Bacillus enteritidis (Gartner). This bacillus flourishes in 
milk, producing neither permanent acidity, curdling, nor distinct 
smell, thus indicating that the usual criteria for distinguishing 
stale from fresh milk are practically useless. Delepine also 
finds that B. typhosus, B. coli communis, and B. enteritidis 
continue to multiply in milk at summer's temperature in the 
presence of as much as 140 grains per gallon of the usual 
borax and boric acid mixture. 

Similar experiments have been made by different observers 
as to the influence of boric acid on the keeping properties of 
butter. 1 

One series was conducted by an association of butter 
merchants in Limerick. A large churning of about 112 Ibs. 
of butter was made and divided into four equal parts. No. ] 
was cured with 1 per cent, of preservative ; No. 2 with 1 per 
cent, of preservative and 3 per cent, of salt ; No. 3 with 3 per- 
cent, of salt ; No. 4 with 6 per cent, of salt. These were 
stored in similar boxes for nine months. At the end of this 
period, Nos. 1 and 2 were good and eatable, while Nos. 3 and 4 
were uneatable and rancid. 

Mr. H. C. Cameron, Produce Commissioner to the New 
Zealand Government, related to the Departmental Committee 
experiments made by his Government. Six samples of butter, 
marked A, B, C, D, E, and F, from the same churning were 
treated with different quantities of salt and preservative (chiefly 
consisting of boric acid). These were examined and found to 
be practically identical in flavour, and were then kept at a 
temperature of 29 F. in a freezing chamber for eleven 
weeks, as representing the period necessary for transporting to 
England. They were then taken out and kept for ten days 
at a temperature varying from 45 to 60 F., corresponding to 
the period of storage in the English shops, and were re- 
examined by experts. As a result, it was found that box E, in 
which the butter had received 3 per cent, of salt and ^ per 
cent, of preservative, was superior to sample D, which was 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



20 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

treated with 2 per cent, of salt and 1 per cent, of preservative, 
and this was superior to F, which had received 3 per cent, of 
salt and 1 per cent, of preservative, whilst A, B, and C, which 
had no preservative of any kind, were all inferior to D, E, and F. 
They concluded, therefore, that the best results were obtained 
with \ per cent, of preservative, though it is not quite obvious 
why E and F should be of inferior quality, unless the extra 
amount of preservative was perceptible to the palates of the 
observers. 

On the other hand, Dr. Voelcker stated in his evidence that 
he had received from Australia samples of butter, some of 
which contained preservative and some of which were without ; 
these were kept side by side in his laboratory, and at the end 
of six weeks he was unable to detect any difference between 
them, although the observations took place during the summer. 
It is, however, possible that a butter expert would have been 
able to discern a difference. 

Discordant results such as these can be readily understood 
when the biological changes taking place in the manufacture 
of butter are borne in mind. If butter is made from pasteurized 
cream by means of a pure ' starter,' such germs as cause 
rancidity and other deleterious changes may not have an 
opportunity of gaining access, and the addition of boric acid or 
borax may therefore not have any marked effect on the flavour ; 
whilst if these organisms are not removed at the factory or 
creamery, they will indicate their presence unless checked by 
means of a preservative. 

In any case ^ per cent, is considered sufficient by a 
large number of those connected with the butter trade, and 
when containing this proportion well-made butter will keep 
a sufficient time to be imported into England and sold for 
consumption. 

A similar quantity of boric acid is, according to Mr. Hudson 
(of Hudson Bros.), sufficient to keep cream sweet until it comes 
into consumption. 1 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CHEMICAL PEESEBYATIVES 21 

In the case of ham and bacon boron preservatives are 
usually applied to the outside of the joint or side, the quantity 
used by different wholesale dealers for this purpose varying 
from to 1 per cent. A certain proportion of this appears to 
be absorbed, and is found in the interior of the meat. 

Boric acid is frequently used medicinally, both internally 
for disinfecting the urinary tract and for relieving flatulence, 
and externally as an application for inflammatory conditions, 
and for washing out suppurating cavities, &c. The dose, 
which was formerly 5 to 30 grains, was diminished in the 1898 
edition of the British Pharmacopoaia to 5 to 15 grains, the 
smaller giving as good results as the larger. 

Borax is often used as an application in cases of thrush 
and similar conditions of the mouth, and was formerly largely 
given internally for epilepsy. Like that of boric acid, the 
maximum dose has been halved, and is now 20 grains. 

. Both these substances are as a rule quickly eliminated by 
the kidneys. When given in small doses boric acid is excreted 
as a borate, but with larger doses it appears unchanged, 
indicating that the alkaline pancreatic juices have been unable 
to neutralize the acid. It has been found in the urine within 
four hours of the initial dose, and it generally disappears within 
forty to forty-eight hours after the drug has ceased to be 
administered. 

When, however, the kidneys are diseased the elimination 
is less rapid, and two instances were mentioned in the Report 
of the Departmental Committee in which boric acid was found 
in the urine forty-nine and fifty-three days respectively after 
the drug was left off. It is probable, therefore, that occasionally 
boric acid may have a cumulative action. 

Many experiments have been performed in vitro with a 
view to ascertaining what action, if any, boron compounds 
exert on the various digestive juices. 

For those who are unacquainted with physiological processes 
it may be briefly stated that digestion is carried out by the 
action of ferments secreted by special glands. The ferments 



22 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

split up the starchy and nitrogenous constituents of food into 
sugars and proteid bodies, capable of being absorbed into the 
blood and utilised by the body. 

In the mouth the food is masticated with saliva containing 
the ferment ptyalin, which splits up starch into dextrin and 
sugar. When the food passes into the stomach this process 
probably proceeds for a further period until checked by the 
hydrochloric acid secreted by the stomach. The latter organ 
also produces pepsin and rennin : the former, in the presence 
of hydrochloric acid, acting on the nitrogenous portion of the 
food, whilst the rennin precipitates casein from milk, and so 
allows the pepsin to convert it into proteid bodies capable of 
being absorbed by the intestine. 

The pancreas secretes two ferments, trypsin and amylopsin, 
which act respectively on nitrogenous and carbohydrate material, 
and so deal with any food which may have escaped the action 
of the ptyalin and pepsin. 

The functions of the intestines are chiefly concerned with 
the absorption of food prepared in the manner indicated, though 
a ferment, succus entericus, is also produced which appears to 
have some action on carbohydrate food. 

Fats undergo a slight chemical change as a rule, and are 
then absorbed in the form of an emulsion. The emulsifying 
effects are chiefly produced by the pancreatic juice and bile. 

When studying the effects of boron compounds on the 
various ferments, it must be borne in mind that whilst boric 
acid possesses very feeble acid properties, borax is distinctly 
alkaline, as the differences found in the action of these 
substances are probably largely due to their respective re- 
actions. 

Salivary Digestion. Chittenden l obtained mixed human 
saliva, filtered and neutralized it, and diluted it to one-half. 
His experiments were made in series, in which one digestion 
of each series served as a control for comparison. Ten c.c. of 
the diluted saliva was mixed with 1 gramme of perfectly 

1 Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette, February 1893. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 



23 



neutral potato or arrowroot starch, the volume made up to 
100 c.c. with water, and various percentages of boric acid or 
borax added. The mixtures were kept at 40 C. for fifty 
minutes, after which further fermentative action was stopped 
by boiling the solutions. The extent of the amylolytic change 
of starch into sugar action w r as ascertained by determining 
the amount of maltose formed in one-fourth of the solution. 

In the case of saliva acting on potato and arrowroot starch 
in the presence of borax, the following results were obtained : 





Maltose formed 




Potato starch 


Arrowroot starch 


O'OO per cent. 70'40 per cent. 67'08 per cent. 


0-005 


65-68 




o-oi 




65-96 




62-48 




0-05 




49-44 




39-16 




0-10- 




41-84 




36-84 




0-50 




40-56 




30-60 




1-00 




37-60 




27-20 




2-50 




29-36 




22-36 




5-00 




22-68 




17-32 




10-00 




17-56 




13-28 





From this it will be gathered that borax exerts an 
inhibitory effect on ptyalin, but is unable to arrest its action 
even when present in the large proportion of 10 per cent. 

Boric acid appears to have still less effect in this direction, 
as shown by the following figures, the amylaceous material 
being arrowroot starch : 



Boric acid added 


Maltose formed 


O'O per cent. 
0-05 

o-io 

0-50 
1-00 


67-08 per cent. 
67-72 
67-76 
68-08 
62-76 



It will be seen that the addition of boric acid up to a 
certain point actually appears to increase the quantity of 



24 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

starch converted into sugar. It was further found that this 
change was not prevented by an addition of salt up to 5 per 
cent. 

Liebreich l obtained similar results with borax, using 
10 c.c. of mixed human saliva with 20 c.c. of a 2^ per cent, 
decoction of starch, the whole being made up to 100 c.c. Two 
portions contained O'l and 0-5 per cent, of borax respectively, 
whilst a third was used as a control. The mixtures were kept 
at 50 C. for an hour and then boiled, and the sugar estimated. 
His results were as follows : 



Borax added 


Sugar formed 


Loss from addition of borax 


O'O per cent. 

o-i 

0-5 


0-2075 
0-164 
0-158 


20-96 per cent. 
23-85 





Similar experiments were performed, leaving the ferment 
in contact with the starch for twenty-four hours : 



Borax added 


Sugar formed 


Loss from addition of borax 


O'O per cent. 

o-i 

0-5 


0-249 
0-204 
0-205 


18-07 per cent. 
18-07 



These results have been further confirmed in England by 
Rideal and Foulerton and others, and tend to show that whilst 
boric acid rather favours the amylolytic action of saliva, borax 
and mixtures containing both substances retard it. It should, 
however, be remembered that starchy foods such as bread, for 
which this action is chiefly required, are not usually preserved, 
though, in the case of bread and butter and milk puddings, the 
addition of borax might retard this preliminary digestion by 
the salivary ferments. 

Pepsin Digestion. Peptic digestion takes place in an acid 
medium, and for this purpose hydrochloric acid is secreted by 
special cells in the stomach wall. This acidity at the height of 

1 Effects of Borax and Boric Acid on the Human System. 



CHEMICAL PEESEKVATIVES 



25 



digestion is equivalent to about 0'2 per cent, of hydrochloric 
acid. At the commencement of gastric digestion no free 
hydrochloric acid is present, as it forms a compound (hydro- 
chlor-protein) with the proteid material of the food. When 
the proteids are fully saturated, free hydrochloric acid appears. 
To a certain extent the flow of gastric juice is excited by the 
introduction of an alkali, and borax may therefore exert this 
effect, and also neutralize the lactic acid, which is an abnormal 
product and due to microbic fermentation of the food in the 
stomach. On the other hand, an excess of alkali may have 
a prejudicial effect in tending to neutralize the hydrochloric 
acid essential for the process of proteid digestion. 

Chittenden ] investigated the action of boron preservatives 
on pepsin by digesting coagulated egg albumin for a given 
time with varying quantities of borax and boric acid, using, as 
a control, mixtures in which there were no preservatives. 

Each mixture consisted of 9 grammes of albumin (contain- 
ing 1*247 grammes of dry proteid) and 100 c.c. of pepsin 
hydrochloric acid, prepared by dissolving O'l gramme of a 
very strong pepsin in 1 to 2 litres of a 0'2 per cent, solution of 
hydrochloric acid. The amount of albuminous matter dis- 
solved after standing for four hours at 40 C. was taken as a 
measure of the proteolytic action under the given conditions. 
The results were as follows : 



Borax added 


Boric acid added 


Proteid digested 


O'OO per cent. 


O'OO per cent. 


73-2 per cent. 


o-oi 


73-3 




0-05 





75-3 




0-20 


71-8 




0-50 





57-1 






o-io 




74-5 






0-30 




82-3 






0-50 




81-2 






1-00 




82-6 






2-50 




73-6 






5-00 




46-1 






6-00 




41-3 





1 Loc. cit. 



26 



In a second series of experiments a weaker digestive 
mixture was used in the presence of boric acid, while the 
proteid employed was 1 gramme of blood fibrin in each solu- 
tion. Digestion went on at 40 C. for six hours, the results 
being as under : 



Boric acid added 


Proteid digested 


O'OO per cent. 


36 - 2 per cent. 


0-05 


36-0 


o-io 


38-5 


0-50 


38-0 


1-00 


34-9 


5-00 


28-4 



These experiments seem to show that in vitro any effect 
which boric acid, in quantities up to about 1 per cent., may 
have on peptic digestion is rather in the direction of accele- 
rating than retarding the action. Borax, on the other hand, 
appears to inhibit the process when the percentage rises to O2 
per cent., possibly on account of its neutralizing effect on the 
hydrochloric acid. If this be the cause, it would probably be 
overcome in the stomach by the continued secretion of acid 
from the oxyntic cells. 

Chittenden's results were to a certain extent confirmed by 
Liebreich, 1 who, however, used somewhat different methods. 
He mixed O5 gramme pepsin, O8 gramme hydrochloric acid, 
and 4 5 gramme albumin with varying quantities of borax 
(neutralized by N/10 .hydrochloric acid) and boric acid : 
100 c.c. of water was added, and the flasks left for twenty- 
four hours at 35 C. 

In the case of borax he found that with quantities up to 
0'25 per cent, all the proteid was dissolved, whilst a small 
residuum was left when the strength reached 0'5 per cent. In 
the case of boric acid all the proteid was digested even when 
0-5 per cent, of the acid was added. These experiments are 
open to the objection that a contact of twenty-four hours was 
allowed, which is a longer period than would obtain naturally. 
1 Effects of Borax and Boric Acid on the Human System. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 



27 



Action on Rennin. Any effects produced by boron pre- 
servatives on rennin are of particular importance, since for the 
proper digestion of milk, on which infants and invalids so 
largely depend, it is essential that this ferment action shall 
take place before proteolytic action commences. Halliburton ! 
has found that whilst boric acid has no effect on rennin, 
minute proportions of borax, even Ol per cent., are sufficient 
entirely to arrest the curdling action for twenty-four hours at 
least. If, therefore, the acid present in the gastric juice is 
unable to convert the borax into boric acid, the digestion of 
milk to which the above quantity of borax may be added will 
probably be arrested. 

Action on Amylopsin. This ferment acts normally in an 
alkaline medium, though digestion will also take place in a 
neutral solution. 

Liebreich 2 found by experiments in vitro that 3 per cent, 
of boric acid did not inhibit the action of amylopsin, whilst 
borax had a slight effect in this direction. He obtained a 
solution of the ferment from the gland of a pig, mixed it with 
a decoction of starch, and allowed the mixture to stand for 
twenty-four hours at 35 C. The albuminoid bodies were 
separated, and the quantity of sugar estimated. His figures 
were as follows : 



Borax added 


Boric acid added 


Quantity of glucose formed 


O'OO per cent. 


O'OO per cent. 


0'791 gramme 


0-66 





0-768 


1-33 





0-770 


1-99 





0-753 




1-66 


0-790 




3-33 


0-789 



These experiments are open to the objection that they fail 
to show the presence or absence of any inhibitory effect which 
may be exerted during such period of time as the food is 
exposed to the action of the pancreatic ferments in the human 
body. 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee. 2 Loc. cit. 



28 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Foulerton, 1 in quoting experiments made by Eideal and 
himself, states that, taking the value of the digestive power of 
amylopsin on arrowroot starch as 100, by the addition of 
various quantities of a mixture (consisting of 75 per cent, boric 
acid and 25 per cent, borax), the process of digestion in thirty 
minutes was retarded as follows : 



Boric mixture added 


Quantity of sugar formed 


Weak amylopsin Strong amylopsin 


O'OO per cent. 
0-05 

o-i 

0-3 


100-0 

77-2 
63-0 
50-8 


100-0 

64-0 
53-6 
47-0 



It will be seen that these figures differ considerably from 
those of Liebreich, the explanation being probably in the great 
difference of time allowed by the two observers. If Kideal 
and Foulerton had estimated the sugar formed at the end of 
twenty-four hours, they would very likely have found that the 
additions had made little difference to the amount of starch 
converted into sugar. 

Their observations, however, are probably of more value 
than Liebreich 's, since pancreatic digestion cannot be supposed 
to continue for the length of time allowed in the latter's 
experiments. 

Action on Trypsin. Like amylopsin this ferment will act 
in an alkaline or a neutral medium, though in the intestine the 
former condition is the one which obtains. 

Chittenden 2 investigated the influence of borax in both a 
neutral and an alkaline solution, and that of boric acid in 
a neutral medium. The albuminous material employed was 
10 grammes of cooked beef proteids, which were mixed with 
50 c.c. of the neutral trypsin and varying quantities of borax. 
These mixtures were kept at 40 C. for four hours, with the 
following results : 

1 Lancet, November 1899. 2 Loc. cit. 



CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 



29 



Borax added 


Proteid digested 


OOO per cent. 


35*8 per cent. 


o-oi 




43-2 


0-05 ' 




43-7 


0-20 




51-3 


0-50 




56-9 


1-00 




57-2 


9 


2-00 




61-2 


f 


3-00 




59-1 


' f 


5-00 




56-1 


| 


10-00 




48-8 


' 



In an alkaline medium (containing O5 per cent, of sodium 
carbonate) similar results were obtained : 



Borax added 


Proteid digested 


O'OO per cent. 


57'5 per cent. 


o-oi 


64-1 


0-05 


65-0 


0-20 


67-4 


0-50 


69-2 


1-00 


63-3 


2-00 


64-5 


3-00 


56-5 


5-00 


52-9 


10-00 


45-7 



When a stronger solution of trypsin was used the 
accelerating effect of borax was to a large extent lost. 

In the case of boric acid a neutral solution of trypsin was 
used, the mixture being allowed to stand for seven hours before 
the amount of digested proteid was estimated : 



Boric acid added 


Proteid digested 


O'OO per cent. 


25'9 per cent. 


o-oi 


25-3 


0-02 


24-9 


0-05 


24-1 


o-io 


23-7 


0-20 


24-4 


0-50 


24-3 


1-00 


24-3 


2-00 


19-8 


3-00 


18-9 



30 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

It will be noticed from these experiments that whilst boric 
acid appears to exert on the whole a slightly inhibitory action, 
borax favours the action of trypsin. Similar results were 
obtained by Foulerton. 1 

Although the ferments thus experimented on cover the 
most important of those met with in digestion, the action of 
boron preservatives on the emulsifying properties of the bile 
and pancreatic juice have not been directly determined. It 
might be supposed that borax would favour and boric acid 
hinder this process, though the investigations, to be quoted 
later, on the results of administering borax and boric acid to 
children and animals would seem to show that no appreciable 
influence is exerted. 

To sum up, although too much stress must not be laid 
on experiments conducted in vitro, borax in small quantities 
appears to exert a markedly prejudicial effect on the action of 
rennin and a slighter one on ptyalin ; when present in a greater 
proportion than O2 per cent, it also retards peptic digestion. 
Unless added in large quantities it rather favours than retards 
the action of trypsin. 

Boric acid, on the other hand, has no action on rennin, 
slightly retards the action of ptyalin when present in the 
proportion of 1 per cent., favours peptic digestion until of a 
greater strength than 1 per cent., but begins to retard the 
action of trypsin when present to the extent of 2 per cent. Of 
the two substances, therefore, boric acid is less likely, judging 
from these experiments, to exert a prejudicial effect on digestion 
than'borax. 

As regards amylopsin, which is a most important ferment 
from a physiological point of view, there can be no question 
that small quantities of boric mixture retard the action, though 
after a considerable lapse of time the quantity of starch con- 
verted into sugar is almost the same whether the preservative 
is present or absent. 

Foulerton and Eideal 2 also estimated the digestibility of 

1 Lancet, November 1899. 2 Loc. cit. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 31 

meat and milk which had been in contact with a mixture of 
boric acid and borax. Fifteen grammes of beefsteak was 
allowed to stand for twenty-four hours in 100 c.c. of water 
containing the mixture (boric acid 75 per cent., borax 25 per 
cent.). The meat was then digested for an hour at 38 C. 
with pepsin. The dissolved nitrogen in the filtrate was then 
estimated, with the following results : 



Control Boric mixture 



(containing no preservative) 



0'05 per cent. O'l per cent. 0'3 per cent. 

100-0 



97-22 90-17 73-93 



In the case of milk 50 c.c. was allowed to stand in contact 
with the preservative for twenty-four hours, after which the 
mixture was digested with commercial extract of pancreas for 
half an hour at 38 C. The undigested casein was precipitated 
and the dissolved nitrogen in the filtrate estimated : 



Control 
(containing no preservative) 


Boric mixture 


0'05 per cent. 


O'l per cent. 


0-3 per cent. 


100-0 99-4 


97-3 


97-7 



It would therefore appear that, whilst the digestibility of 
meat may suffer when exposed to boric acid of a greater 
strength than 1 in 1,000, there is little effect in the case of 
milk. Similar experiments in which rennin and pepsin were 
used might give different results. 

Liebreich l has made a number of experiments with regard 
to the direct effect of boric acid and borax on gastro-intestinal 
epithelium. Under narcosis the stomach and intestine of 
several dogs were laid open and irrigated for five minutes with 
4, 1, 2, 3, and 5 per cent, solutions of boric acid and borax 
respectively. For purposes of comparison similar experiments 
were made with solutions of common salt, saltpetre, and soda. 
The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine was 

1 Arch* of Hygiene. 



32 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

examined while fresh, by the naked eye and microscopically, 
and permanent microscopic specimens were afterwards made. 

He found that boric acid even in a 5 per cent, solution 
exerts no irritating effect on the gastro-intestinal mucous 
membrane. Borax, on the other hand, began to cause excess 
of secretion and disintegration of the epithelial lining when a 
strength of 2 per cent, was reached. At 1 per cent, there were 
very slight changes visible under the microscope. He ascribes 
this to the alkaline reaction of the drug. With a 1 per cent, 
solution of soda he found a distinctly deleterious effect, though 
the comparison is perhaps hardly fair, as he should have com- 
pared equal degrees of alkalinity of borax and soda rather than 
equal weights. 

Experimenting with saltpetre he found that the injurious 
effect began with a \ per cent, solution, whilst a 5 per cent, 
solution of common salt exercised an inflammatory action on 
the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane. He concluded that 
boric acid is less injurious to mucous membranes than common 
salt or saltpetre, while the latter is capable of producing 
inflammation in weaker solutions than borax. 

The effects of the administration of boron compounds on 
the nutrition of animals have been investigated by Chittenden, 
Liebreich, Eideal and Foulerton, Tunnicliffe and Bosenheim, 
Annett, and others. 

Chittenden ] used dogs for the purpose of his experiments, 
bringing them first into a condition of nitrogenous equilibrium. 
They were then fed on a carefully weighed mixed diet of meat, 
fat, and carbohydrate for nine days. Each dog at the com- 
mencement of the experiments weighed 12 kilogrammes. For 
the next nine days 5 grammes of borax (about 77 grains) was 
administered daily in the same quantity of food, an amount 
equivalent to 1'3 per cent, of the solid food and 0'6 per cent, of 
the total food and drink. For a further period of nine days 
the borax was omitted. The nitrogen of the urine and faeces 
was determined daily, also the volume of the urine, together 

1 New York Medical Journal, February 26, 1898. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 33 

with its specific gravity, total sulphur and phosphorus, uric 
acid and combined sulphuric acid, &c. The fatty or ether- 
soluble matter of the faeces was also determined. 

Similar observations were made with boric acid, the experi- 
ments extending over thirty days equally divided into a fore, 
a boric acid, and an after period. From 1 to 2 grammes (15'5 
to 31 grains) of the salt was given per diem. 

A third series of experiments was made, lasting over fifty- 
six days. During the first eight days no preservative was given. 
An average quantity of 4 grammes of borax was administered 
per diem during the next eight days ; there was then a further 
period of eight days during which no borax was administered, 
.after which boric acid was given for a like period, the total 
average quantity per diem being 2 grammes. Another rest of 
eight days was allowed, after which an average quantity of 
8 grammes of borax was given daily for eight days, and finally 
this was followed by an equal period during which no antiseptic 
was administered. 

The experiments showed, in the case of borax, administered 
up to a maximum dose of 5 grammes a day, that while the 
weight of the animal remained constant, and the quantity of 
fat in the faeces was not increased, there was a slight rise in 
the quantity of nitrogen excreted in the faeces, which might 
indicate that less proteid is absorbed when borax is administered. 
The urine showed a tendency to become alkaline and to decrease 
: slightly in quantity. 

Boric acid in doses up to 3 grammes a day was apparently 
without influence on proteid metabolism or on the general 
nutritional processes of the body. It also had no effect on the 
volume of the urine, which remained acid. 

Both these drugs, however, when administered to the extent 
of l - 5 to 2'0 per cent, of the food were liable to produce nausea 
and vomiting. No cumulative action was observed, elimination 
.being completed in twenty-four to thirty-six hours. 

Liebreich 1 fed two dogs, weighing 12,700 and 8,530 grammes, 

1 Loc. cit. 

3 



34 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

on food containing 3 and 2 grammes of boric acid respectively 
per diem. Vomiting occurred on the twelfth and fifteenth 
days in the two cases, but the first dog in thirty-six days put 
on 260 grammes in weight. The weight of the second under- 
went no change. 

Three rabbits, varying from 1,170 to 1,370 grammes 
respectively, were given 0'3 gramme of boric acid for thirty- 
one days, and gained from 30 to 100 grammes in that 
time. 

A dog weighing 12,200 grammes had 5 grammes (77 grains) 
of borax administered daily in its food for ninety days. On the 
sixteenth day there were symptoms of acute intestinal inflamma- 
tion, but these passed away in a few days, and at the end of 
the period the dog had gained 3,400 grammes. 

The results of these experiments showed that in the case 
of borax there was no loss of weight, a slight increase in the 
quantity of faecal nitrogen, but no change in the ether-soluble 
constituents of the faeces, from which it was inferred that 
proteid and fat assimilation are practically not affected by 
doses of borax up to 5 grammes a day. The urine showed a 
tendency to become alkaline, together with a slight decrease in 
quantity. 

Boric acid in doses up to 3 grammes a day was likewise 
without influence on proteid and fat metabolism or on the 
general nutritional processes of the body. It also appeared 
to be without effect on the volume of urine, which remained 
acid. 

Neither drug had any influence on intestinal putrefaction. 

In order to ascertain the effects of boric acid on young 
animals a number of observations were made at the South - 
Eastern Agricultural College, Wye, by Messrs Hall, Hammond, 
and Tunnicliffe, sucking-pigs being used for the purpose. 1 
The experiments were very carefully conducted, and controls 
were used for comparison. Eight pigs of the same breed were 
matched in pairs as nearly as possible according to their 
1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 35 

weights. They were about two months old when the experi- 
ments began. They were fed to their maximum capacity on a 
diet consisting chiefly of meal made from barley, oats, or 
wheat ; each individual of a selected pair received the same 
quantity of food as the other, but to the food of one the boric 
preservative was added. Their initial weight ranged from 
30 to 40 Ibs., and their final weight, after nine weeks, was from 
70 to 90 Ibs. The daily dose of boric acid began at 3 grains 
and was gradually increased to 37 grains. During the last 
twenty days of the experiments the faeces were collected, and 
the fat and nitrogen estimated in two nine-day periods, the 
first period being one in which the dose was 18*5 grains, 
and the latter 37 grains per day. 

The results were, within experimental errors, entirely nega- 
tive that is to say, the pigs receiving boric acid throve as well 
as their confreres, and there was no evidence of appreciable 
diminution in the fat or nitrogen assimilated. 

As far, therefore, as experiments on animals can be con- 
sidered an indication of what would probably obtain in man 
under similar conditions, these experiments would seem to 
indicate that moderate doses of boron preservatives are not 
likely to produce ill-effects even when administered over a 
considerable period, and the experiments at the Agricultural 
College go a short distance to show that the same may also be 
true with regard to the young. It must be borne in mind, 
however, that the digestive processes taking place in animals 
are not entirely comparable with those in man. For instance, 
perchloride of mercury and iodoform can be given to dogs in 
quantities sufficiently large completely to sterilize the ali- 
mentary canal without ill effect, whereas corresponding doses 
would be fatal to man. 1 

Dr. Annett 2 has experimented on the administration of 
boric acid dissolved in milk to a number of kittens just old 
enough to lap milk. These were chosen as more nearly 

1 Halliburton, Report of Departmental Committee. 

2 Report of Departmental Committee. 



36 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

representing infants in the nature of their food, and presumably 
their digestive processes, than the animals used by other ob- 
servers. Some were fed on milk containing 80 grains of boric 
acid per gallon, and the others on milk containing half this 
quantity of acid, and the kittens were allowed to consume as 
much of it as they wished. At the same time control kittens 
were fed in a similar manner on milk free from preservatives. 

At the end of the third or fourth week all the kittens fed 
on the milk containing 80 grains of boric acid per gallon were 
dead, having previously undergone great emaciation, whilst 
those consuming the milk with 40 grains of the preservative 
per gallon became emaciated and died a little later. In all 
these cases diarrhosa was a prominent symptom. The control 
kittens remained perfectly healthy, and gained considerably in 
weight. Dr. Annett found that kittens three months old were 
practically insusceptible to milk containing these quantities of 
boric acid. 

Although the actual volume of milk consumed was not 
estimated, the experiments are extremely suggestive, as showing 
what might possibly happen to infants artificially brought up 
on milk to which boric acid has been added. The proportion 
of 40 grains per gallon is (as shown on p. 17) nearly the 
minimum quantity which can be relied upon to preserve milk 
for any appreciable length of time. 

Turning now to the observations made on children, Tunni- 
cliffe and Rosenheim l obtained the consent of the parents of 
three children to keep the latter under observation, whilst 
measured doses of boric acid and borax were administered. 
Two of them were typically healthy boys, two and a half and 
five years of age, whilst the third was a girl of four, delicate, 
and just recovering from pneumonia. During the whole period, 
lasting a little over three weeks, absolute control was kept over 
all ingesta, which were accurately weighed, and the excreta, 
which were daily collected without loss. The habits and 
exercise of the children were regular in every respect. Each 

1 Journal of Hygiene, vol. i. p. 168. 



CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 37 

period was divided into a fore, a boric, a borax, and an after period. 
The diet was a mixed one, consisting chiefly of milk, bread, 
butter, meat, and fruit, and so selected as to maintain a nitro- 
genous equilibrium. Each article of food was carefully analysed 
with regard to its percentage composition. The excreta were 
measured or weighed, and the nitrogen, phosphorus, uric acid, 
and fats estimated. 

The doses of boric acid and borax were the same in all 
three cases. 

For three days 7'7 grains of boric acid was given per diem, 
for three days 1O2 grains, and for one day, 15'4 grains. 
23-2 grains per day of borax was given for five days. The 
following are approximately the maximum quantities of the 
substances which w r ould be given medicinally : 






Boric acid 


Borax 


Boy aged 2| . 
Boy aged 5 . 
Girl aged 4 . 


8 grains 
13-2 
11-25 


13'5 grains 
17'6 
15-0 



The fore period lasted eight days in the first case, five days 
in the second and third. The boric acid and borax periods 
were in each instance seven and five days respectively, whilst 
the after period lasted five days in every case. 

The conclusions arrived at were as follows : 

BOEIC ACID 

' 1. Small doses up to 1 gramme (15-4 grains) a day exert in 
healthy or delicate children no influence upon proteid meta- 
bolism. The assimilation of the proteid food was improved in 
one healthy child. 

' 2. The phosphorus metabolism was unaffected in all cases. 
The assimilation of phosphorus was in all cases improved. 

' 3. The assimilation of fat was not affected. 

' 4. The body weight increased in all cases. 

' 5. The quantity of dry faeces was not affected. Their 
nitrogen percentage was slightly decreased. 



38 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

' 6. No inhibitory effect upon intestinal putrefaction could 
be demonstrated.' 

BORAX 

' 1. Continued doses of 1*5 gramme (23-2 grains) have no 
influence in healthy or delicate children upon proteid meta- 
bolism. The proteid assimilation was unaffected in healthy 
children, slightly depressed in the delicate child. 

' 2. The phosphorus metabolism was not affected in healthy 
or delicate children. The assimilation of phosphorus was 
improved in all cases, the improvement being least marked in 
the case of the delicate child. 

' 3. The fat assimilation was improved in the case of one 
healthy child, and unaffected in the case of the others. 

' 4. The body weight was increased in all cases ; the increase 
was most marked in the case of the delicate child. 

' 5. The weight of dry faeces and their nitrogen and 
phosphorus percentage remained unaltered. 

' 6. Borax tended rather to increase intestinal putrefaction.' 

BOEIC ACID AND BOEAX 

' 1. Both boric acid and borax were quickly eliminated, no 
cumulative action being therefore probable. 

' 2. Neither boric acid nor borax in any way affected the 
general health and well-being of the children.' 

If any criticism is needed upon these admirably conducted 
observations, we would point out that the period of adminis- 
tration was a somewhat short one, and although apparently no 
cumulative action took place, a more prolonged administration 
might possibly have led to some digestive disturbance. More- 
over, whilst the children were taking for the greater part of 
the time an amount of boric acid nearly equivalent to, or in 
one case exceeding, the maximum dose authorised by the 
British Pharmacoposia, the quantity of boric acid actually found 
in milk is, as will be mentioned in a later chapter, frequently 



CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 39 

20 grains 1 to the pint, so that an infant of, say, six months, 
consuming only a pint of milk in the twenty-four hours, might 
take considerably more boric acid than the quantity used in 
these observations. 

The increase of intestinal putrefaction in the case of the 
administration of borax suggests that possibly some of the 
food was unacted upon by the natural gastric and intestinal 
ferments, to be subsequently decomposed into useless products 
by bacterial action. 

The experiments throw little light on the effects which 
borax has been found to produce in vitro on amylolysis, but 
indicate that in the average child between two and a half and 
five years of age, boric acid and borax may be administered for 
several days, in quantities equal to, or exceeding, the usual 
medicinal doses, without any ill effects. 

Forster 2 came to similar conclusions after administering 
about 46 grains of boric acid to a man daily for three days 
with a mixed diet, and, in another instance, after giving doses 
of 23 and 7'5 grains of boric acid on two days with a milk 
diet. He found, however, a small increase in the faecal 
nitrogen, which he ascribed to a slightly diminished assimila- 
tion, together with an increased intestinal and mucous excretion 
from the intestine. 

The elaborate experiments recently conducted by Dr. Wiley 
in America, to be referred to later, lead to somewhat different 
conclusions, but the negative results of the greater number 
of observations quoted above seem to indicate that these 
preservatives in moderate quantities exert no prejudicial effect 
on the average child and adult. Annett's experiments, how- 
ever, suggest that in infants prejudicial effects may occur, and 
there is abundant medical evidence to show that in an appreci- 
able proportion of children and adults boric acid has caused 
serious toxic symptoms, apart from any influence upon the 
digestive ferments, when administered in ordinary medicinal 

1 As much as 80 grains a pint has been detected. 

2 Arch. f. Hygiene, 1884, ii. 



40 PEESEEYATIVES IN FOOD 

doses. As has already been pointed out, boric acid is excreted 
by the kidneys ; if, therefore, these organs are the seat of 
disease, or are otherwise deficient in excreting power, there is 
a strong possibility of a cumulative effect being produced. It 
is well known that this is true with regard to opium, which 
requires the most careful administration in cases when kidney 
lesions are present. Young children, too, are extremely sus- 
ceptible to the action of certain drugs : whether this is the 
case with regard to boric acid it is impossible to say, as the 
diseases for which it is usually administered do not obtain in 
infancy, and digestive derangements are so common in artifi- 
cially fed babies that it is difficult to ascribe the condition to 
any one cause as, for instance, to preservatized milk. 

A few instances of the ill effects produced by boric acid 
may be quoted from the evidence given by witnesses in the 
Report of the Departmental Committee. 

Dr. Handford stated that he had frequently used boric acid 
in doses of 10 grains three times a day for patients suffering 
from bladder trouble, but had to suspend it in from 20 to 40 
per cent, of the cases on account of digestive disturbances. 
These effects always disappeared on discontinuance of the 
drug. 

Dr. Briggs Wild administered doses of 15 to 20 grains a 
day to himself, with the result that after a few days he ex- 
perienced discomfort after food, loss of appetite, flushing of 
the skin and general malaise. The symptoms disappeared 
when the drug was left off. On taking quantities up to 120 
grains in four hours nausea and diarrhoea resulted. He also 
mentioned the case of an adult who was taking 10 grains three 
times a day. After three or four weeks there was a severe 
eruption spreading from the palms of the hands to the body, 
face, and head. The hair fell off, and nearly the whole skin 
was reddened and covered with scabs. This condition was 
ameliorated as soon as the drug was discontinued ; subsequently 
the treatment was adopted again, with similar results. 

Dr. Tubb-Thomas administered boric acid to himself up to 



CHEMICAL PKESEEVAT1VES 41 

15 grains a day, with the result that vomiting, diarrhoea, 
headache, and almost complete suppression of urine took 
place. 

Mr. A. E. Anderson stated that the majority of his patients, 
to whom he had given boric acid for bladder troubles, in doses 
of 10 to 20 grains three times a day, experienced in about a 
fortnight pain after food, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting 
and skin eruptions, the symptoms disappearing when the drug 
was stopped. Of his last fourteen patients, eight had found it 
necessary to discontinue its use. 

Similar cases have also been reported from time to time in 
the medical journals. In the ' Lancet ' of January 28, 1899, 
two instances were given. In the first, 30 grains a day were 
administered ; after 10 days an irritable papulo-erythematous 
rash occurred on the face, trunk, arms, and legs ; the urine 
was free from albumen. Similar results occurred in the second 
case, where, in addition to 15 grains taken daily by the mouth, 
the bladder was washed out with boric acid. In both instances 
the symptoms disappeared when the drug was stopped. 

In the ' British Medical Journal ' of the same month, a case 
is mentioned in which a patient, who was taking up to 60 
grains of boric acid a day for three weeks, became entirely 
bald, and was covered with an erythematous rash. 

In the same journal (June 7, 1899) another case is described, 
in which nausea and dryness of the skin were caused by rectal 
irrigation with boric acid of a strength of a drachm to a pint. 
They ceased when the injections were discontinued. 

As regards the ill effects of boron preservatives when mixed 
with foods, some were quoted by witnesses before the Depart- 
mental Committee. 

Dr. J. H. Jones stated that a delicate lady was suffering 
from dyspepsia : the milk and butter were examined and 
found to contain boric acid (to the extent of 1'3 per cent, in 
the case of the butter). The symptoms disappeared when a 
purer supply was obtained. 

Dr. Tubb-Thomas related instances of children suffering 



42 PEESEEVATIVES IN EOOD 

from diarrhoea, not occurring entirely in the summer, to whom 
he gave small doses of boric acid ; instead of recovering, they 
became worse, and some of them died. It was found that the 
milk they were taking contained from 40 to 120 grains of boric 
acid per gallon. Children in similar circumstances, but having 
different milk supplies, escaped. 

He had also met with cases of phthisis in which the patients 
had had to give up milk on account of the diarrhoea it caused. 
The milk was found to contain boric acid. When a fresh 
supply of milk was obtained, the patients were able to take it 
without ill effects. 

Probably the most striking instance of the ill effects pro- 
ducible by boracic acid was furnished by Dr. E. Hope. A 
lady had made arrangements with her milkman to supply pure 
milk for the use of her child. Expense was no object, and all 
the cows were examined by a veterinary surgeon. The child 
was taken violently ill one day, and it was ascertained that on 
that particular occasion the milkman had added boracic acid to 
the milk. Careful inquiries were made as to the possibility of 
the illness being due to any other article of food, but everything 
indicated the milk as the cause. The fact that a preservative 
had been added on that day is, however, suggestive of the 
milk not being the same as that usually supplied, or of its 
having shown signs of undergoing some change. However, 
Dr. Hope was strongly of opinion that the preservative was the 
cause of the illness. 

A far more serious aspect of the case is the alleged effect of 
borax and boracic acid on the kidneys. In 1901 Dr. Kister, 
of Berlin, published the results of his observations on the 
administration of boracic acid to strong and healthy subjects. 
He found that doses of 40 to 50 grains a day produced albumi- 
nuria in four to six days, the albumen persisting until the drug 
was discontinued. In some instances he found that a dose of 
15 grains resulted in vomiting and diarrhoea. With a 15-grain 
dose, exhibited to a healthy subject, boracic acid appeared in 
the urine in two hours, but eight days elapsed before the 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 



whole was eliminated. With half the dose the elimination 
occupied five days. Dr. Charles Harrington l conducted a series 
of experiments on cats, feeding one on food containing no 
preservative, six on similar food containing borax, and five on 
the same food containing some other preservatives which proved 
to be innocuous. The amounts of borax administered are 
given in the following table : 



Weight of borax 


Average daily dose 


No. of days 
administered 


No. 1 72'5 grammes 
2 112-0 


0'54 gramme 
0-84 


133 
133 




3 28-0 




0-66 




42 




4 108-0 




0-81 




133 




5 106-5 




0-80 




133 




6 48-0 




0-85 




56 



Three of the above six cats became ill. No. 3 died at the 
end of the sixth week, but the others remained active till the 
end of the experiments. The eleven remaining cats were killed. 
The organs of the six cats which had not received borax were 
healthy. In the case of those to which borax had been 
administered, the kidneys were in all, except No. 2, found to be 
affected with nephritis of varying degrees of intensity. The 
epithelium of the tubes, especially the convoluted tubules, was 
degenerated, and in the lumen of many of the collecting 
tubules there were granular masses of fragments of cells. 
Some tubules were almost entirely destroyed. This is fairly 
conclusive evidence that excessive amounts of borax are 
harmful, but it does not follow that, because - 54 to 0'85 
gramme (8 to 13 grains) administered daily to a cat causes 
nephritis, the same amount taken by a healthy adult would 
have the same effect. The difference in body weight is very 
considerable, and the human kidneys may possess greater 
powers of elimination than those of the cat. Still, taken in 
conjunction with Dr. Kister's observations, there is little doubt 

1 Lancet, September 17, 1904. Quoting from the American Journal of tlie 
Medical Sciences. 



44 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

that doses of 40 to 50 grains per day are not without effect 
upon the human kidney. It is very doubtful, however, 
whether any individual ever takes for any considerable period 
in his food more than 10 to 15 grains of borax or its equivalent 
of boracic acid per day on a mixed diet, and the kidneys of a 
healthy individual may be perfectly capable of eliminating this 
amount without suffering any damage. This view appears to 
be borne out by the results recorded by other observers. 
Dr. Merkel, of Nuremberg, administered 15 to 30 grains of 
boracic acid to a number of invalids for periods varying from 
two to eight days, and found they were much more sensitive 
to the action of the preservative than healthy persons. The 
amounts above mentioned caused excessive formation of gas in 
the stomach and intestines, with eructations, colic, epigastric 
pain and diarrhoea, but he records no production of albu- 
minuria or any symptom pointing to irritation of the kidneys. 
In the most elaborate and extensive series of experiments yet 
recorded, carried out by the United States Department of 
Agriculture, Dr. Wiley, in his report, affords no evidence of 
any affection of the kidneys having resulted from the prolonged 
use of moderate quantities of borax. This report is of such 
interest that a brief reference to it must be made here. 

The details are derived from Circular No. 15 of the Bureau 
of Chemistry of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
this in its turn being a digest of ' Bulletin No. 84 ' made by 
Dr. H. W. Wiley, Chief of the Bureau. Bulletin No. 84 
contained several hundred pages, and as, under the existing 
law, 1,000 copies of such a report is the largest number which 
can be published, Circular No. 15 was prepared for general 
circulation. Although it gives the general outline of the 
experiments and of the results arrived at, it is lacking in 
certain details which were no doubt present in the full report. 
There is, for instance, no detailed information as to the actual 
dosage of borax given day by day or week by week to the 
twelve volunteers who offered themselves for experiment, the 
quantities employed being mentioned only in general terms, 



45 

nor does it give the ages of the recipients, nor the exact periods 
during which the observations were maintained. 

A large number of young men offered themselves as subjects 
for the investigations, and twelve were selected. Each applicant 
was required to answer certain questions as to his health and 
habits, and only total abstainers were chosen. The moderate 
use of tobacco was not forbidden. 

The selected subjects were boarded at a special ' hygienic 
table,' but otherwise continued their usual vocations during 
the whole period of the experiment. They were placed upon 
their honour to observe the rules and regulations prepared by 
the Bureau of Chemistry, and to use no other food or drink 
than that provided, with the exception of water, and any 
water consumed away from the hygienic table was to be 
measured and reported. They were to continue their regular 
habits, and to indulge in no excessive amount of labour or 
exercise. After the experiments were over, each of the selected 
subjects was required to certify that these requirements had 
been kept, and that the data as regards weight, temperature, 
and pulse-rate had been accurately recorded by him. 

The maximum duration of the experiment was to be six 
months, though in point of fact the periods during which the 
candidates were actually kept under observation varied from 
thirty to seventy days. Periods of rest were given during 
which they were permitted to eat moderately at tables other 
than those of the Bureau of Chemistry. The hours of meals 
were : breakfast, 8 A.M. ; luncheon, 12 noon ; dinner, 5.30 P.M. ; 
the luncheon being only of a light character, with no meat. 
The meats were selected from roast beef, beefsteak, lamb, veal, 
pork, chicken, and turkey. Fish and oysters were given, and 
eggs twice a week. The butter was of the best quality, and 
free from colouring matter and salt. When preserved 
vegetables, fruits, or meats were unavoidable, such as had 
been preserved by cold storage, sterilization, or without 
antiseptics were selected. Assurances to this effect were 
required from the purveyors, and the products were examined 



46 PBESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

chemically from time to time. Tea and coffee were allowed in 
moderation. 

The observations were divided into three divisions, the fore 
period, preservative period, and after period. The time 
assigned to each of the periods varied, and the total time 
varied from thirty to seventy days. During the whole of this 
time the rations of each member of the ' table ' were weighed 
or measured, and the excreta collected. 

Before the fore period was commenced, a note was made of 
the quantities of food voluntarily consumed by each of the 
candidates, and from these the proper amount necessary in 
each case to maintain a comparatively constant body weight 
was calculated. When a suitable result was thus arrived at, 
the same quantity of food was given daily during the pre- 
servative and after periods. 

The preservative was administered in the form of borax 
and boric acid. At first it was mixed with the butter, but 
subsequently it was given in gelatine capsules (due allowance 
being made for the food value of the gelatine). This method 
was found to be necessary from the fact that when the pre- 
servative was mixed with the food in such a way as to conceal 
its physical appearance, a certain dislike of the food with 
which it was supposed to be incorporated was manifested by 
some of the members of the table. ' Those who thought the 
preservative was concealed in the butter were disposed to find 
the butter unpalatable, and the same was true with those who 
thought it might be in the milk or coffee. When, on the other 
hand, the preservative was given in the capsules with the full 
knowledge of the subject, much less disturbance was created.' 
Preliminary experiments with the capsules showed that the 
gelatine was dissolved in a few moments by the digestive 
ferments. 

The doses of preservative given at first were small, and 
approximately such as would be consumed in eating foods, such 
as butter and meat, which had been preserved with borax. 
The quantity was progressively increased in order to reach the 



CHEMTCAL PEESEEVATIVES 47 

limit of toleration for each preservative and for each individual. 
For each variation of the quantity given a separate study of 
the digestive processes as influenced by the preservative was 
made. 

At the end of the preservative period the after period began, 
approximately the same quantities of food being given as 
during the preservative period. 

During the entire time, from the beginning of the fore 
period to the end of the after period, the foods were weighed 
or measured and analysed, and the excreta collected and 
analysed. 

The candidates were kept under medical supervision, being 
examined once a week, and treated when necessary for ailments, 
such as influenza, when these occurred. The blood of the 
members of the special table was examined periodically as 
regards colouring matter and number of corpuscles. 

The subjects of the experiment themselves kept a record of 
the sublingual temperature before and after dinner each day, 
and at the same time counted the pulse rate. A daily record 
of the body weight was also kept. 

Dr. Wiley points out in his report that, although it is not 
possible to collect every particle of the nitrogen, phosphorus, 
and sulphur excreted from the body, and so ascertain the exact 
fate of these elements ingested as food, yet, if a relation can be 
established between the total amount of these substances 
entering the food and that leaving the body in the urine and 
faeces, any disturbance in the relation due to the addition of an 
abnormal constituent of the food, such as a preservative, can 
be easily detected. He considers it fair to assume that in spite 
of the difficulties encountered, any slight errors which may 
have occurred did not materially affect the conclusions based 
on the data as a whole. 

It is further pointed out that the regular habits of life 
entailed by the conditions of the experiment led to a high 
standard of general health among the members of the ex- 
perimental table, in spite of a few temporary ailments such as 



48 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

colds and influenza. Consequently it is not impossible that an 
unfavourable tendency, which might have been caused by the 
preservative in the case of persons leading a less regulated life, 
was counteracted by the good physical condition of the subjects 
of the experiment. 

Any unfavourable mental influences were as far as possible 
counteracted by the open administration of the preservative in 
capsules, in order that a dislike of any particular preservatised 
food should not be raised, and in addition the young men were 
cautioned to avoid discussing the development of any 
symptoms which they might rightly or wrongly attribute to 
the drug administered. It was found, as a matter of fact, that 
after the first day or two such mental influences were not 
noticeable. 

The experimental data are not set out in Dr. Wiley's 
report, but the magnitude of the undertaking is indicated by 
the fact that the observations were extended over a period of 
196 days, in which time analyses were made of 2,550 food 
samples, 1,175 urine samples, and the same number of fseces 
samples. In addition, 125 samples of urine and 60 samples of 
blood were examined microscopically. 

As regards the average ratio of food consumed to the body 
weight, the following figures are given by Dr. Wiley : 



Moist food, including 
water consumed 



Water-free 
food 



Fore period . . 4-20 per cent. 0*96 per cent. 

Preservative period . : 4-22 ,, 0'99 

After period . . | 4-21 1-01 



In every series of the experiments there was a marked 
tendency on the part of the preservative to diminish slightly 
the weight of the body. As a rule this loss of weight 
continued during the after period, though in some instances 
the loss was checked and occasionally partly regained in the 
: after period. 

On an average about 80 per cent, of the preservative was 
.excreted by the kidneys, only small traces being found in the 



CHEMICAL PEESERVATIVES 49 

faeces, and, unless the remainder was retained in the body it 
was presumably excreted in the perspiration. 

During the course of the observations 607-4 grains of either 
boric acid or its equivalent of borax were administered, and 
468-69 grains were recovered in the urine, being 77-16 per 
cent, of the whole. The percentage actually varied in different 
instances from 63*87 to 83'05 per cent, 

The effect of the preservative on the composition of the 
fseces was in general to slightly increase them both as regards 
water and dry matter. There was, however, no tendency to 
excite diarrhoea. 

On nitrogen metabolism the administration of boric acid 
had very little influence, but taking the results of all the 
observations there appeared to be a decrease in the excretion of 
nitrogen during the preservative period, and a still greater 
decrease after the withdrawal of the preservative. Thus, 
during the fore period, 94*2 per cent, of the nitrogen taken in 
the food was recovered, as against 93-6 per cent, in the 
preservative, and 90-1 per cent, in the after period. It is 
suggested that there may be a tendency of the preservative in 
large amounts to increase the formation of insoluble compounds 
of nitrogen, and thus to retard its elimination. 

As regards phosphorus the combined results of all the 
observations indicated that the preservative increased the 
excretion of phosphorus from 97-3 per cent, in the fore 
period to 103-1 per cent, in the preservative period, the 
percentage dropping to 97 - in the after period. 

The metabolism of fat appeared to be practically uninfluenced 
by the administration of the preservative, but there was evidence 
of a slight tendency for the boric acid to interfere with the com- 
bustion of food in the body, the tendency being most marked 
in the after period. Combining the results of all the data, 
6-4 per cent, of the combustible material in the food was 
eliminated unburned during the fore period, as against 6*6 per 
cent, during the preservative and 7-0 per cent, during the after 
period. 

4 



50 



PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 



The experiments showed that the boric acid tended to 
increase the total solids in the faeces and to decrease those 
excreted in the urine that is to say, that the preservative inter- 
fered with the processes of digestion and absorption. The 
daily averages were as follows : 






Quantity of solid 
food 


Percentage in 
faeces 


Percentage 
eliminated in 
urine 


Fore period 
Preservative period 
After period 


631'5 grains 
627-6 
614-1 


4-1 
4-6 
4-6 


10-2 
9-5 
9-1 



The figures in the third column, it should be noted, include 
the boric acid administered during the preservative period, 
and as the drug is excreted chiefly by the urine it would tend to 
increase the solids in the urine. 

As regards the effect of the preservative on the composition 
of the urine it was found that whilst 85-7 per cent, of the 
nitrogen was excreted in the fore period, the figure dropped to 
85-1 and 81-1 per cent, in the preservative and after periods 
respectively. 

The acidity was increased or reduced according as to 
whether boric acid or borax had been administered, and in 
some cases the reaction became alkaline, thus indicating that 
a large part of the borax was excreted unchanged. 

In the few instances where the urine contained a trace 
of albumen before the experiments, there was a tendency 
for this to be increased in both the preservative and after 
periods. 

No influence appeared to be exerted on the substances 
found by a microscopical examination of the urinary deposits. 

Similarly no conclusions could be drawn as to any influence 
of the preservative on the corpuscles and haemoglobin of the 
blood. 

The effect of boracic acid and borax on the general health 
varied with the amount administered. Quantities not exceed- 
ing ^ a gramme of boracic acid, or its equivalent of borax, given 



CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 51 

daily produced no immediate effects. The long-continued 
exhibition of such small doses appears to have produced the 
same results as the use of large doses extended over a shorter 
period. In many instances there was a manifest tendency to 
diminish the appetite and to produce a feeling of fulness and 
uneasiness in the stomach, and in some cases actual nausea 
was experienced. There was a further tendency to produce a 
sense of fulness in the head, manifested as a dull and persistent 
headache. These symptoms disappeared when the use of the 
preservative was abandoned. The continued administration of 
boracic acid to the amount of 4 or 5 grammes per day (or its 
equivalent of borax) resulted in most cases in loss of appetite 
and inability to perform work of any kind. In many cases the 
person became ill and unfit for duty. The administration of 
3 grammes per day produced the same symptoms in many 
instances, although it appeared that the majority of the men 
under observation were able to take 3 grammes a day for a 
somewhat prolonged period and still perform their duties. 
They commonly felt injurious effects from the dose, and it is 
reasonable to assume that a normal man could not long continue 
to receive 3 grammes (46 grains) per day. In some cases 
2 grammes and even 1 gramme per day appeared to cause 
illness, but it is acknowledged that these persons may have 
been suffering from influenza. 

The administration of borax and boracic acid to the extent 
of one-half gramme per day yielded results markedly different 
from those obtained with larger quantities. The experiments 
with this quantity extended over a period of fifty days, and on 
the whole the results are said to be ' that one-half gramme 
per day is too much for the normal man to receive regularly,' 
although for a limited period there may be no danger of im- 
pairment of health. 

Dr. Wiley sums up his conclusions in the following 
sentence : 

' It appears, therefore, that both boracic acid and borax, 
when continuously administered in small doses for a long 



52 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

period, or when given in larger quantities for a short period, 
create disturbance of appetite, of digestion and of health.' 

Dr. Wiley's report and conclusions have recently been 
exhaustively criticized by Liebreich, who has had the oppor- 
tunity of visiting Washington, of examining the building in which 
the men experimented upon were boarded, and of studying all 
the documents relating to the investigation. He points out that 
the results were so indefinite, and the number of persons under 
control so small, that ' one case of self-deception or forgetfulness 
only would throw into absolute uncertainty the solution of the 
whole question.' The premises used were not very suitable, 
being near kitchens and store-rooms for malodorous oils, and 
possibly * continuous eating in such rooms would tend to 
diminish the appetites of young men, especially those who are 
used to something better, and lead to the changes in metabolism 
attendant upon this decrease.' The fore-periods were, according 
to Liebreich, in nearly all cases too short to permit of the normal 
metabolism being ascertained, and far too much reliance was 
placed upon chemical results and too little on medical observa- 
tion. The diminution in weight, 680 grammes for each person 
(about 1 lb.), has little significance, and in fact may actually 
have indicated an improved general condition of the body due 
to the dieting and regular habits insisted upon. The pre- 
servatives were given as a single dose daily in a gelatine capsule, 
and not mixed with the food at each meal. This, in Liebreich's 
opinion, renders the whole results unreliable, as the effect of 
many substances mustard, salt, and alcohol, for example is 
very different if taken alone to what it is if they are taken well 
diluted in articles of food or drink. A very significant admission 
is also made by Dr. Wiley. He says, ' The unfortunate fact 
that many of the data are contradictory must be accepted 
without question. As the judge and the jury, in the light of 
contradictory evidence, seek to decide which is the more trust- 
worthy, so have the data herein contained been interpreted 

1 Third Treatise on tlie Effects of Bo/rax and Boric Acid on tJie Human System. 
London, J. & A. Churchill, 1906. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 53 

with a view, if possible, to giving the greater weight to those 
which deserve the greater credit.' Another admission of great 
interest and importance is also made. He says, ' It is, never- 
theless, an interesting fact to note that at the end of the year, 
after the final "after period" had been passed, they [the men 
experimented upon] appeared to be, and declared themselves to 
be, in better physical condition than when they entered upon 
the experimental work seven months before.' 

We cannot do better than give Liebreich's final conclusions, 
since they briefly summarise the whole matter, and appear to 
us, from a careful consideration of Wiley's Tables as given by 
Liebreich, to be perfectly fair and reasonable : 

FINAL CONCLUSIONS 1 

' The conclusion drawn from an exhaustive examination of 
the figures and reports drawn up by Dr. Wiley is that no 
injurious effect was produced by the administration of the boron 
preservatives. The symptoms of ill-health noticed during the 
attendance at the Borax-table must be attributed to inefficient 
hygienic conditions, and to an injudicious mode of administering 
the preservative, as well as in a few cases to an unsuitable 
choice of persons for this experiment in spite of medical 
examination. 

' 1. With regard to weight, Dr. Wiley assumes that a loss of 
weight resulted. The average loss of 680 grammes is so slight 
that it need not be ascribed to the use of boric acid and borax, 
but can be explained by chance occurrences at the preservative 
table. Moreover a loss of weight does not by any means always 
mean an injurious influence. 

' 2. The experiments on metabolism were undertaken with 
no equilibrium of nutrition. 

' 3. The fore periods were too short to prove regularity in 
feeding. 

' 4. The percentages of nitrogen and phosphoric acid in the 
food were constantly changing. Consequently 

1 Op. dt. p. 69. 



54 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

' 5. It is impossible to decide whether the excretion increased 
during the preservative period. 

' 6. Dr. Wiley calculates the elimination of phosphoric acid 
in percentages. This method of reckoning is a fault in calcula- 
tion when the supply of phosphoric acid is not constant, the 
more so that Dr. Wiley's figures are obtained promiscuously 
from positive and negative phosphoric acid balances in the fore 
period. 

' 7. On considering the separate tables we see that, in the 
rise and fall of the elimination of phosphoric acid, there is no 
connection between the magnitude of the dose of preservative 
or the number of days in the preservative period, and the 
amount of the elimination of phosphoric acid. 

' 8. The hygienic arrangements were not on a scale to do 
justice to every individual. 

' 9. The medical supervision and self -supervision were not 
sufficient for experiments of this kind. 

' 10. The administration of the preservative that is, of borax 
and boracic acid in capsules allows of no conclusions as to the 
effect of borates when added to food. 

' 11. It is not necessary to go into the question of calories. 
Dr. Wiley's own words explain this best. He says : " The 
data are not wholly decisive, but very suggestive." He does 
not say why they are suggestive, and he himself adds that his 
investigations were not exhaustive enough. 

' 12. No lasting injury to health was found, in spite of 
transient disturbances caused by the room used for experiment 
and the administration of the boron compounds in capsules. 
On the contrary, all the persons declared themselves to be in 
better physical condition after seven months than they had 
been before.' 

Assuming Dr. Wiley's conclusions to be justified it seems 
probable that no inconsiderable amount of ill-health, arising 
from disturbances of the digestive functions, may be due to the 
preservatives contained in articles of food, milk, butter, bacon, 



55 

&c., and yet the cause be rarely suspected, and still more rarely 
admit of proof. Certainly this has not been proved at present, 
but now that the attention of the medical profession is 
being directed to this subject it is possible that the causal 
relationship, if any, between indigestion, anomalous skin erup- 
tions, and kidney affections, and the use of boracic or other 
preservatives may be established. 

Whether boron compounds, when used in reasonable 
quantities as food preservatives, have any deleterious effect 
upon healthy individuals or not, there are two widely prevalent 
conditions which especially contra-indicate their use, namely 
kidney affections and atonic dyspepsia, and although there is 
no evidence of any weight with reference to the action of boric 
acid on the uterus, the possible danger to pregnant women 
should not be overlooked. The digestive functions of children 
being more easily disturbed than those of adults, there is 
nothing unreasonable in assuming that these preservatives will 
be more likely to be harmful to children than to adults. 

The action of boron compounds has been dwelt upon in 
some detail because they are more largely used than any 
others as preservatives in a greater variety of foods, and 
because the greatest diversity of opinion has hitherto pre- 
vailed with reference to their action upon the human system. 



CHAPTEE IV 

CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES (continued) 

Formaldehyde 

THIS preservative has to some extent supplanted boric acid 
in the case of milk and cream, but is not much employed for 
other articles of food, though it is occasionally painted or 
sprayed over the surface of meat, fish, and fruit, and it has 
been found in temperance beverages such as ginger beer. 

In a pure state it is a gas, but it is usually sold under the 
name of formalin, which consists of a 40 per cent, solution in 
water or dilute alcohol. It is sometimes purchased for dairy 
purposes in a weaker solution, such as 1 per cent. It does not 
keep well, as it readily undergoes oxidation into formic acid, 
and is also apt to polymerize. One of its most remarkable 
properties is its power of hardening albuminous substances. 
Apparently it is able to enter into combination with proteid 
material, which is thereby generally rendered insoluble and less 
easily acted upon by ferments. Serum albumen, however, is 
an exception to the rule, and remains soluble in water, but it 
is not coagulable by heat after it has been exposed to the 
action of formaldehyde. 

Cassal l found that gelatine, by the addition of O'l to 0-5 
per cent, of formalin (0*04 to 0-2 per cent, formaldehyde), 
became hard and horny, and would not dissolve in water, 
whilst egg albumen was converted into a gelatinous mass 
insoluble in water, after a few drops of a similar solution had 
been added. 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 57 

According to Weigle and Merkel the casein of formalined 
milk falls in thick voluminous flocculi, and is rendered 
insoluble even in the mixture of sulphuric and acetic acid 
used in Gerber's method of estimating milk fat, and equally so 
in a medium containing pepsin and trypsin (Benedecenti). 1 

Formaldehyde is an excellent germicide, and is largely 
employed in the form of a vapour or spray for disinfecting 
rooms, whilst the solution is used for sterilizing clothing, 
surgical instruments, &c. A 1 per cent, solution has been 
found to destroy non-sporing bacteria in less than an hour, and 
many species are prevented from multiplying by so dilute a 
solution as 1 in 20,000. Dr. Blaxall 2 found that milk is 
sterilized by the addition of formaldehyde in the proportion of 
1 in 500. 

Rideal and Foulerton 3 have shown that the organisms 
producing the souring of milk are checked for some hours 
when the proportion is only 1 in 50,000, and consider that this 
quantity need not be exceeded for practical purposes. 

The point at which the milk was deemed unfit for sale in 
these experiments was the same as that in the case of boric 
acid, namely an acidity equivalent to - 25 per cent, of lactic 
acid. The following table represents the percentage acidity 
of the milk after the addition of formaldehyde, at various 
temperatures : 



Milk without 
Temperature 



P. 



55-4 
64-0 
75-2 c 



formaldehyde 


formaldehyde had been added 


15 hours 


20 hours 


23 hours 39 hours 


15 hours 


2 hours 


23 hours 


39 hours 


0-18 
0-20 
0-23 


0-18 
0-20 
0-24 


0-18 i 0-19 
0-21 i 0-39 
0-28 j 0-80 


0-18 
0-18 
0-19 


0-18 
0-18 
0-20 


0-18 
0-18 
0-22 


017 
021 
059 



It will be seen that at 75*2 there is a gain of over three 
hours, and at 64 one of 16 hours by the use of the preservative. 

1 Zeitschrift fiir Hygiene und Infectionskranklicitcn, vol. 48, part i. 

2 Report of Departmental Committee. 
Public Health, 1899. 



58 



PEESEEYATIVES IN FOOD 



It is, however, as discussed in Chapter III., open to doubt 
whether the formation of deleterious products is likewise 
checked that is to say, whether lactic acid can be taken as an 
index of the effect of formic aldehyde on all the organisms 
which may produce toxic substances in milk. In fact, 
according to Delepine, 1 more than one part of formaldehyde in 
10,000 is necessary to check the multiplication of B. typhosus 
in fluid media, and a still stronger solution is required in the 
case of organisms of the B. coli group. 

Droop Richmond 2 conducted similar experiments on the 
same lines as those already quoted in the case of boric acid. 
The following results are expressed as the length of time 
during which milk will keep sweet at various temperatures 
with and without the addition of preservative : 



Temperature 


Formaldehyde added per cent. 


F. 


None 


0-0023 


0-0047 


0-0093 




Hours 


Hours 


Hours 


Hours 


60 


50 


60 


100 


140 


70 


34 


40 


58 


92 


80 


22 


29 


40 


66 


90 


15 


18 


31 


52 


100 


9 


11 


27 


44 



Thus with the addition of 1*15 parts of formaldehyde in 
50,000, a gain of 10, 6, and 7 hours respectively, is observed at 
60, 70, and 80, whilst with twice this quantity the corre- 
sponding figures are 50, 24, and 18 hours. 

Bearing in mind the powerful germicidal properties of 
formaldehyde, one would expect it to produce an inhibitory 
effect on the digestive ferments. That this takes place to some 
extent is shown by the experiments of several observers, and 
the following are a few of the results. 

Action on Ptyalin. Eideal and Foulerton 3 found that, 
expressing the amount of a given quantity of arrowroot starch 

1 Trans. Epidem. Society, vol. xxii. p. 58. 

2 Eeport of Departmental Committee. 

3 Public Health, 1899. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 59 

converted into sugar as 100, the quantity thus produced by 
ptyalin in the presence of formic aldehyde was as follows : 

1 in 100,000 formaldehyde . . . 99'8 

1 50,000 . . . 96-0 

1 10,000 ... 89-0 

This effect is apparently due to the action of the preservative 
not upon the starch, but on the ferment, as Bliss and Novy ; 
found that starch which had been exposed to a 1 per cent, 
solution of formaldehyde for five days behaved to ptyalin 
exactly like fresh starch. 

Action on Pepsin. Eideal and Foulerton 2 showed that 
1 part of formaldehyde in 50,000 inhibited the digestive action 
of pepsin by 2-4 per cent. 

Cassal 3 found that in a solution containing 1 part of 
formalin in 10,000 (1 in 25,000 formaldehyde), pepsin failed to 
digest fibrin in six hours, and that an insoluble deposit was 
formed at the bottom of the flask. In the absence of formalin 
digestion was practically complete in two and a half hours. 

This inhibitory effect increases with the concentration of 
the antiseptic. Thus, according to Starling, 4 fibrin, which had 
been exposed to a solution of 1 in 2,500 formaldehyde, was 
incapable of digestion by gastric juice, and this condition 
persisted even after the fibrin had been washed for two days in 
running water. 

It appears probable that the effect is due to the action of 
formaldehyde more on the albuminous material than on the 
ferment, since Bliss and Novy 5 have shown that the anti- 
septic has no deleterious effect on pepsin even when the latter 
has been exposed for some weeks to a 4 per cent, solution. 

Eideal and Foulerton 6 allowed 15 grammes of beefsteak to 
stand in 100 c.c. of water to which measured quantities of 
formaldehyde had been added. After twenty-four hours the 
meat was digested with pepsin for an hour at 38 C., and the 

1 Journ. of Experimental Medicine, 1899, vol. iv. p. 74. - Loc. cit. 
3 Report of Departmental Committee. ' Ibid. 

s Loc. cit. B Loc. cit. 



60 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

dissolved nitrogen estimated, a control experiment being made 
in which no preservative had been used. 
The results were : 



Quantity of formaldehyde 


Quantity of proteid digested 


None 
1 in 100,000 
1 50,000 
1 10,000 
1 2,500 


100-00 
91-45 
90-38 
85-25 
81-19 



showing that formaldehyde renders proteid material resistant to 
pepsin in proportion to the quantity present. 

Action on Rennin. Foulerton l found that a quantity of 
formalin, equivalent to 1 in 40,000 formic aldehyde, delayed 
the action of rennin a few minutes, 1 in 10,000 about an hour, 
while when the strength reached 1 in 1,000 the ferment was 
almost entirely inhibited. Bliss and Novy 2 have shown that 
formaldehyde may be added to rennet in the proportion of 5 per 
cent, without destroying the ferment, in which case the results 
of Foulerton's experiments must be ascribed to the direct 
action of formic aldehyde on the casein. Lowenstein has 
recently further investigated this subject and arrives at the 
following conclusions : 3 

1. Formaldehyde so alters the milk that it no longer reacts 
towards rennet. The degree of alteration depends, first, on the 
length of contact, and, secondly, on the strength of the formalin 
solution. 

2. These changes in the milk take place with the small 
quantities of formalin which are used in practice for preservation. 

Action on Trypsin. It has been shown by Eideal and 
Foulerton 4 that formaldehyde when present to the extent of 
1 in 50,000 has a slightly inhibitory effect on the proteolytic 
ferment of the pancreatic juice. The amount of fibrin digested 
in one of their experiments was 97*0 as against 300 in the 
absence of the antiseptic. 

1 Lancet, 1899, vol. ii. 2 Loc. cit. 

Public Health, April 1905, p. 457. 4 Ibid., 1899. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 



61 



Halliburton ' found that fibrin, which had previously been 
in contact with a 1 in 2,000 solution of formaldehyde for two 
days, resisted the action of pancreatic juice three times as 
long as ordinary fibrin, whilst if the strength of formaldehyde 
was doubled no digestion took place in twenty-four hours. 

Bliss and Novy 2 have shown that this ferment is itself 
destroyed by a ] in 500 solution of formaldehyde, and inhibited 
by one half this strength, apart from any action which the 
antiseptic may have upon the proteid substances to be digested. 
In this connection Eideal and Foulerton exposed milk for 
twenty hours to the influence of varying quantities of form- 
aldehyde, and then digested the mixture with extract of pan- 
creas. After half an hour the quantity of casein dissolved was 
estimated, with the following results : 



Quantity of formaldehyde 



None 

1 in 100,000 
1 50,000 
1 10,000 



Quantity of casein digested 

100-0 
94-6 
94-1 
91-4 



Possibly, if digestion had been carried on for a longer period, a 
larger proportion of the casein would have been dissolved. 

Action on Amylopsin. The same observers, using two 
different samples of this ferment, found the effects of the ad- 
dition of varying quantities of formic aldehyde to be as follows : 



Formaldehyde added 










Ferment A 


Ferment B 


None 


100-0 


100-0 


1 in 100,000 


96-4 


87-2 


1 50,000 


91-8 


84-2 


1 10,000 


91-5 


83-0 



Starling 3 found that 1 in 5,000 formalin (equivalent to 1 in' 
12,500 formic aldehyde) entirely stops the action of pancreatic 
juice. 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 

" Loc. cit. 3 Report of Departmental Committee. 



62 

No observations have been recorded as to the action of 
formic aldehyde on Succus entericus, or on the emulsifying 
agents in bile and pancreatic juice, but it will be gathered 
from the experiments just recorded that in vitro all the 
principal natural digestive enzymes are retarded to some 
extent by formic aldehyde even in such small proportions as 
1 part in 50,000. The effect seems to be most marked in the 
case of amylopsin a most important ferment in the digestion 
of farinaceous food and least in that of pepsin. 

In addition there appears to be a specific reaction, of the 
nature of a chemical combination, between the preservative 
and albuminous material, whereby the action of proteolytic 
ferments is retarded. 

There is thus a considerable contrast between boron com- 
pounds and formalin, as, in the case of the former, the action 
of many of the digestive ferments appears to be actually favoured. 

Nothing is known as to whether formaldehyde, in such 
weak solutions as those necessary for the preservation of food, 
has any direct effect on the secretory cells of the digestive 
tract. In concentrated solutions it undoubtedly has a depress- 
ing influence on their vitality, and it is possible, therefore, that 
this may take place when the substance is present in such 
quantities as those used in the foregoing experiments, in which 
case an additional inhibitory effect would be added. 

A few experiments have been carried out on animals in 
order to ascertain how far formaldehyde exerts a prejudicial 
effect on nutrition. 

At the South-Eastern Agricultural College at Wye l ob- 
servations, similar to those already mentioned in the case of 
boracic acid, were made on six young sucking-pigs. They 
were kept under observation until it was found that their rate 
of growth was steady, and were then matched in three pairs. 
The pigs in each pair always received equal weights of the 
same food, but one of them was given a dose of formalin 
suitably diluted. The experiments lasted over seven weeks, the 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



63 

initial daily dose of formalin being 2 c.c. (= O8 gramme 
formaldehyde), this being afterwards increased to 4 c.c. 

At the end of the time no deleterious influence was 
observed on the pigs to whom formalin was administered, and 
they grew rapidly, and fed as well as those to whom none was 
given. The formaldehyde represented a concentration varying 
from 1 in 185 to 1 in 730 of the total food. Annett l obtained 
different results by using, as in the case of boric acid, very 
young kittens, taken as far as possible from the same litters, 
for his experiments. 

A set of five kittens received milk containing 1 part in 50,000 
of formaldehyde, for seven weeks, whilst another set of four were 
fed on pure milk. Of the former, three died, and the average 
increase in weight per kitten was 177 -6 grammes, as against 
251*1 grammes in the case of the latter set. Annett considers 
this to indicate a retarding effect on nutrition to the extent of 
29-3 per cent. 

Similar experiments were made using milk containing 
twice this quantity of formaldehyde, with a result that the 
increase of weight was retarded by 39 '6 per cent. None of the 
kittens succumbed. 

With a concentration of 1 in 12,500, two kittens died, and 
there was a retardation in weight of 69*1 per cent. 

In no instance was the quantity of milk controlled, the 
kittens being allowed to take as much as they wished. 

Rideal 2 has criticised these experiments, pointing out that 
the results were extremely irregular in comparison with the 
number of kittens used, and that cow's milk is an unsuitable 
diet for these animals. Nevertheless the fact remains that 
five of the kittens fed on formalined milk died, whilst none of 
the controls shared this fate, and many of the former had 
symptoms such as loss of appetite, diarrhrea, gaseous distension 
of the abdomen, and changes in the fur, chiefly in the direction 
of roughening. Moreover, the loss of weight increased pari 
passu with the concentration of the preservative. 

1 Lancet, 1899, vol. ii. * Ibid., 1900, vol. i. 



64 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Kideal repeated the experiments by feeding kittens five 
weeks old with 70 c.c. of milk containing 1 in 5,000 form- 
aldehyde daily, but could detect no injurious effects. 

As has already been stated, the digestive processes in man 
and animals differ considerably, and it is not safe to attach any 
great importance to such feeding experiments. 

Observations as to use and effects of formaldehyde on the 
nutrition of children were made bj Tunnicliffe and Rosenheim. 1 
The same children to whom boric acid had previously been 
administered were employed for this purpose, the experiments 
lasting twenty-eight days in the case of the two healthy boys, 
aged two and a half and five years respectively, and twenty- 
one days in that of the delicate girl, aged four years. A mixed 
diet was given, and in each instance there was a fore and an 
after period of seven days. During the intervening fourteen 
or seven days formaldehyde was administered. 

In the case of the boys formic aldehyde was given in the 
morning and evening milk for seven days, in the proportion of 
1 part in 10,000, the total quantity being 0'05 gramme of 
formic aldehyde per diem ; the evening milk had been exposed 
to the action of the preservative for about nine and a half 
hours. During the next week twice this quantity was ad- 
ministered, partly in the milk, and partly with the meat at 
dinner. 

In that of the girl 0*1 gramme of formic aldehyde per diem 
was given, partly in the milk (in which it reached a concen- 
tration of 1 in 5,000), and occasionally in the meat, for a 
period of seven days. 

The constituents of the foods were ascertained by analysis, 
and the nitrogen, uric acid, sulphuric acid, &c., of the urine, 
and the nitrogen and fat of the faeces determined. 

The general conclusions arrived at were as follows : 

' 1. In healthy children formic aldehyde administered with 
the food in doses up to 1 : 5,000 in milk, or 1 : 9,000 in total 

1 Journal of Hygiene, vol. i. p. 321. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 65 

food and drink exerted no appreciable effect on the nitrogen, 
or phosphorus metabolism, or on fat assimilation. 

' The analytical figures suggest, however, that formic alde- 
hyde has a tendency to diminish phosphorus and fat assimila- 
tion, and hence it may be inferred that in larger doses, or if 
continued for a longer period, it would act in this direction. 
The effect is referable to an influence upon pancreatic diges- 
tion. 

' 2. In healthy children formic aldehyde in the above doses 
produces a retention of water in the body. 

' 3. In a delicate child formic aldehyde in the above maxi- 
mum dose had a chemically measurable deleterious effect upon 
the nitrogen, phosphorus, and fat assimilation, again referable 
to an action upon the pancreatic digestion, combined with a 
slight intestinal irritant action. There was a slight tendency 
to stimulate the katabolism of proteid material. 

'4. In a delicate child formic aldehyde increased the volume 
of urine and the weight of faeces. 

' 5. In all cases the excretion of lecithin in the fgeces was 
diminished under the influence of formic aldehyde. This 
effect is probably referable to a stimulating action of formic 
aldehyde on the lecithin-splitting ferment of the pancreas. 

' 6. In no instance did formic aldehyde exert any appreciable 
intestinal antiseptic action. 

'7. In no instance was there any influence on the general 
health or well-being of the children.' 

It will be observed that these conclusions are distinctly 
less favourable than those in the case of boric acid, when the 
results were practically negative, and this in spite of the 
comparatively short time during which the observations were 
carried on. 

If, however, we take O'l gramme of formaldehyde to be the 
maximum dose permissible for a healthy child of two and a 
half years, that for a baby of six months would be about one- 
fifth, or O02 gramme. This quantity would be contained in 
less than two pints of milk, supposing that the preservative 



66 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

were added to the extent of 1 part in 50,000, and the child 
would therefore be taking daily the maximum dose of form- 
aldehyde permissible, whilst this would, of course, be exceeded 
unless great care were taken to prevent an increase in the 
quantity of antiseptic added. If the child were a delicate one, 
even one- fiftieth of a gramme might possibly have deleterious 
effects on nutrition. 

Since formic aldehyde is rarely, if ever, administered as 
such by the mouth medicinally its ultimate fate in the body 
has been but little studied. 

Both formaldehyde and formic acid have been found in the 
urine of rabbits to which the former drug has been administered, 
and apparently oxidation takes place to some extent in the 
liver. Urotropine, the ammonium compound of formic alde- 
hyde, is excreted unchanged in neutral and alkaline urines, 
and as formic aldehyde in acid urines. 

This drug is frequently given to disinfect the urinary 
passages in cases of cystitis, and also in enteric fever, the usual 
dose being about 30 grains a day, without ill results. 

Formalin is sometimes administered as an inhalation in 
cases of phthisis and septic conditions of the lung, any dele- 
terious effect being usually in the direction of causing irritation 
to the air passages. 

In Dr. Maguire's Harveian Lectures l an instance was 
mentioned in which 50 c.c. of a 1 in 2,000 solution of form- 
aldehyde were injected intravenously for phthisis without any 
toxic symptoms arising. 

Vomiting and death in twenty -nine hours occurred after 
about two and a half grammes of this substance had been 
taken by a youth in the form of a 4 per cent, solution, 2 whilst 
Hehner 3 experienced violent abdominal pains, lasting for some 
days, after taking milk which contained 1 in 5,000 parts of 
formalin (1 in 12,500 formic aldehyde). 

1 British Medical Journal, 1900, vol. ii. 

2 Medical Press, 1899, p. 309. 

3 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CHEMICAL PEESEBVATIVES 67 

After a consideration of the experimental evidence on the 
hardening effects of formic aldehyde on proteids, its action on 
the various digestive ferments, and the observations on the 
effect of its administration to newborn kittens and to children, 
it is difficult to resist the conclusion that this antiseptic has 
powerful properties even when highly diluted, and, if used at 
all for preserving food, should be very carefully employed in 
order to prevent deleterious effects in the digestive processes of 
the consumers. 

Comparing it with the boron compounds, experiments seem 
to show that it exerts on the whole a more prejudicial effect on 
the digestive ferments, and on the nutrition of children, whilst 
evidence as to any possible toxic effects, when dilute solutions 
are used, are at present wanting, except such as are referable 
to direct irritation of the mucous membrane of the alimentary 
tract. 

The possibility of skin disease being caused by the 
continued use of milk preserved by the addition of formalin 
is suggested by Dr. Moncton Copeman's Eeport to the Local 
Government Board on an outbreak of Epidemic Skin Disease 
.amongst inmates of the Central London Sick Asylum, Hendon, 
in 1903. 

Some sixty-eight of the inmates were affected, and two of 
the cases terminated fatally. The epidemic was confined 
.entirely to the patients of the institution, and chiefly to those 
of comparatively advanced age, who were subjects of various 
-chronic ailments. The porters, officials, and nurses (with two 
possible exceptions) were unaffected. 

The eruption was chiefly erythematous, but in some of the 
patients it was papular or even bullous, whilst in many 
instances pustules, chiefly in connection with the hair follicles, 
occurred. All parts of the body were liable to attack, though 
in most of the patients the eruption was more or less localized, 
the forehead and scalp and the trunk being the principal 
seats. Desquamation, frequently very profuse, took place, and 
jthe rash was accompanied by much irritation. 



68 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Sources of local irritation, such as coarse body clothing, 
bad soap, or newly dyed bedding, infection from without, and 
personal infection, having been excluded, Dr. Copeman turned 
his attention to the food supplied to the inmates. Milk, bread, 
and butter were found to be the only foods which were par- 
taken of by practically all the inmates of the infirmary. The 
bread was of good quality, as was also the butter ; moreover, 
one of the inmates affected disliked butter, and had eaten none 
for over two months prior to the outbreak. 

A few cases occurred in June and the first half of July 
1903, but the disease only showed itself in epidemic form in 
the last week of July, continuing till the end of September, 
when it abruptly ceased. 

Suspicion having been thrown upon the milk supply, the 
patients were given Swiss milk, and the milk contract was 
transferred on October 4 to new hands, and at an increase in 
price of 4icZ. per barn-gallon. 

At least half a pint of milk is included in the dietary of 
nearly all the patients in the infirmary, and amongst the few 
who had certainly consumed no milk there was no instance of 
the occurrence of the skin disease. Previous attacks of eczema 
appeared to predispose to subsequent attacks of the special 
ailment. 

The milk was supplied by a contractor, and was derived 
partly from his own cows and partly from other sources. 
Milk, kept at the Asylum in open graduated tubes for the 
purpose of estimating the amount of cream, was noticed to 
remain uncurdled for three, four, or even more days in July 
during exceptionally hot weather, and there was, therefore, a 
strong presumption that a preservative had been added. The 
steward mentioned that the milk possessed a faint slightly 
burnt smell, absolutely unlike that of good fresh milk. It was 
not, however, until September 29 that samples of the morning 
and evening milk were submitted for analysis. They were of 
somewhat poor quality, especially as regards the non-fatty 
solids, whilst the ash was unusually high. Neither boracic 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 69 

nor salicylic acids were present, but both samples contained 
traces of formalin. 

Strong presumptive evidence was therefore obtained con- 
necting the epidemic with the milk supplied and with the 
presence of the preservative, but it by no means follows that 
the formalin was the actual cause. 

Similar outbreaks have occurred in other public institutions 
and have been attributed to the milk, but the possibility of 
the ' preservative ' being the cause does not appear to have 
been considered in these earlier cases. 



CHAPTER V 

CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES (continued) 

Sulphurous Acid and the Sulphites 

SULPHITES, chiefly the acid sodium and calcium salts, are 
frequently employed for the preservation of beverages such as 
beer, cider, wines, cordials, lime juice and lemon syrup, and 
also of various kinds of meat, poultry, and game, and they 
have been found in other food substances such as vinegar, 
pickles, catsups, anchovy paste, and in desiccated apricots and 
other fruits (0-2 to 1-15 per cent, of Na 2 S0 3 7H 2 0). 

The active principle of the sulphites is the available 
sulphur dioxide, which is a moderately active germicide, used 
largely for the disinfection of rooms, and also, in the absence 
of a steam sterilizer, for articles of clothing. When present to 
the extent of 1 per cent, of the cubic capacity of a room 
non-sporing bacteria are killed in a few hours, though it is 
doubtful whether even a much more concentrated vapour is 
capable of destroying their spores. Casks to contain beer, 
wine, or fruits, are often exposed to the action of the gas to 
ensure surface sterilization. 

Sulphites are used medicinally as an application in some 
parasitic skin diseases, and, although they are seldom ad- 
ministered internally, the dose of the British Pharmacopoeial 
preparation is up to a drachm, which is equivalent to about 
0'2 gramme of sulphur dioxide. 

Sulphites are obtained commercially for preserving purposes 
under various trade names. ' Meat preserve crystal ' has yielded 
on analysis both sulphite and sulphate of soda : ' Freeze-em ' 
has been found to contain sodium sulphite with traces of 



CHEMICAL PEESERVATIVES 71 

sodium carbonate and common salt ; whilst ' Hawke's Anti- 
ferment,' a preparation sold to cider manufacturers, consists 
chiefly of sulphite of calcium with traces of lime. 1 The basic 
portion, by neutralizing an excess of acid might presumably 
render an inferior and possibly injurious brand of cider 
palatable. 

Both sulphurous acid and sulphites readily take up oxygen 
from the air or from liquids in which they are dissolved. Such 
sulphites as are used for preservatives may, therefore, be 
gradually oxidized into sulphates, which are comparatively 
inert. In bottled beverages, however, oxidation would take 
place very slowly, if at all. The bisulphites used by butchers 
for dusting over meat and for preserving minced meat in 
sausages, &c., not only act as an antiseptic, but also as a 
deodorant and restorer of the red colour of the fresh meat, 
hence their advantages over the boron compounds and most 
other preservatives. 

The possible effects of the administration of sulphites 
on the human subject and animals have not been studied in 
England to any great extent, but they have been inquired 
into on the Continent, where there is a large consumption 
of minced meat ('Hackfleisch,' to which reference will be 
made later) preserved by these substances, and in America 
Dr. Charles Harrington, 2 Assistant Professor of Hygiene, 
Harvard Medical School, has collected a large number of 
facts, and added to them the results of his own experiments. 
It is from his work on the subject that the greater part of 
the following information is derived. 

Since sulphur dioxide is readily liberated from sulphites 
by the action of dilute acids, this dissociation will presumably 
be effected by the acids present in gastric juice, the extent 
being largely dependent on the amount of free acid present. 
Hyperacidity is by no means an uncommon condition in 
certain kinds of dyspepsia, and in such cases eructations 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee. 

- Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, pp. 555-59, May 26, 1904. 



72 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

containing sulphur dioxide, or possibly under certain con- 
ditions sulphuretted hydrogen, might be expected. In 1869 
Bernatzik and Braun l administered 80 mlgm. of free sulphur- 
ous acid in 360 c.c. of water, by divided doses extending 
over twenty-four hours, to each of fourteen women with 
various disorders of pregnancy. In twelve of the patients 
eructations of sulphur dioxide, an unpleasant taste, vomiting, 
diarrhoea, and general malaise ensued, the symptoms lasting 
for a day. 

Doses of 1 gramme of magnesium sulphite were also badly 
borne, causing vomiting and diarrhoea. The administration 
of 3'75 grammes of sodium bisulphite caused purging in eight 
women out of twelve after the first dose. 

Borntrager 2 found that eructations of sulphur dioxide and 
sulphuretted hydrogen, together with discomfort and headache 
lasting for some hours, were caused as a result of eating 
certain sausages, or of drinking certain Rhine and Moselle 
wines containing sulphites. 

Pfeiffer 3 applied aqueous solutions of sulphur dioxide 
to the gastric mucous membrane (presumably of animals), 
and found that inflammation was set up even by dilute 
solutions, and that death ensued shortly after the application 
of a 5 per cent, solution, there being marked corrosion of the 
layers of the stomach wall, and even of the surface of neigh- 
bouring organs. 

He also states that half a gramme of sulphite in dilute solu- 
tion causes oppression and discomfort in himself and others, 
whilst Leuch 4 asserts that wines containing free sulphur dioxide 
cause discomfort more readily than those which contain it in 
combination : 45 mlgm. of the former being equivalent in this 
respect to 250 mlgm. of the latter. These amounts taken 
in about two-thirds of a pint of wine caused irritation of the 

1 Wiener medicinische Wochenschrift, xix. 1869. 

- Die Beurtheilung des Zusatzes schwefligsaurer Salze zum Fleische von 
Sanitatspolizeilichen Standpunkte, Leipzig, 1900. 

3 Archiv fiir experimented Pathologie und Pharmakologie, xxvii., 1890. 

4 Correspondenzblatt fiir schioeitzer Aerzte, 1895, no. 15. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 73 

throat and headache. Severe headache and diarrhoea resulted 
with quantities of 55 and 350 mgm. respectively. 

In addition to these subjective symptoms, there is reason 
to believe that sulphites are liable to cause organic changes in 
the abdominal organs, especially the kidneys, even though 
symptoms of poisoning are not at once manifested. 

The earliest experiments were those of Kionka in 1896 ; he 
reported that repeated small doses administered to dogs pro- 
duced serious lesions in various parts of the system. 

His results were challenged by Liebreich and others, and 
his experiments repeated by Lebbin and Kallmain, 1 neither of 
whom was, however, a pathologist. They reported an entire 
absence of lesions on a post-mortem examination. 

A more extensive series of experiments by Kionka and 
Ebstein 2 confirmed the former's first results, and Schultz 3 
obtained similar results. In both series of Kionka's investiga- 
tions none of the dogs showed any outward appearance of 
injury, and in fact occasionally gained in weight. Two 
of Schultz's dogs suffered from purging, but in the end they 
all increased in weight ; nevertheless in every case nephritis 
was discovered at the autopsy. 

Dr. Harrington 4 employed cats instead of dogs, as about 
25 per cent, of the latter animals are subject to nephritis 
when kept caged and in confinement. Six cats were under 
observation for a period of twenty weeks, one of them acting 
as a control, the remaining five receiving six feedings weekly 
of meat containing 0'2 per cent, of sodium sulphite. The 
control animal showed a constant gain in weight throughout ; 
the others gained till about the ninth week and then began to 
lose ground, frequently refusing food or leaving it uneaten, 
but otherwise exhibiting no signs of injury. At the end 
of twenty weeks they were killed and examined by Dr. Tyzzer, 



1 Zeitschrift fiir o/entliche Chemie, 1901, p. 324. 

2 Zeitschrift filr Hygiene und InfectionsJcrankheitcn, xli. p. 123. 

3 DeutscJie niedicinischc Wochenschrift, 1902, p. 265. 

4 Loc. cit. 



74 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

of the Department of Pathology of the Harvard Medical 
School. To the naked eye the organs appeared normal, 
but microscopically the kidneys of all the cats, with the 
exception of the control, showed inflammatory changes. 
Among other conditions the kidneys were hyperaemic, the 
lining cells of many of the tubules, especially those in the 
medullary rays, showed a marked degree of cloudy swelling, 
and the cells of the convoluted tubules were loaded with fat. 
Fibrin was present in the lumen of the tubules, and in one 
instance there was an invasion of the interstitial tissue with 
lyrnphoid and plasma cells. The microscopic appearances of 
the kidneys of the control animal were normal. 

In the case of meat the sodium salt is the one usually 
employed, and it is applied externally, Ol to O2 per cent, 
being the smallest quantity which is likely to produce the 
desired effect, but even as much as 4 per cent, has been found. 1 
As already indicated a slow oxidation takes place with the 
formation of sodium sulphate, but Gartner has experimentally 
recovered from 56-8 to 87'3 per cent, of the original sulphite 
twenty-four hours after the admixture, whilst Polenski re- 
covered 81 per cent, from a sausage after three months, and 
from 72 to 77 per cent, after six months. 2 

The action of the sulphite on the meat appears to be 
threefold. It undoubtedly checks the growth of organisms 
even when present to so slight an extent as O05 per cent., 
whilst apparently its maximum influence is exerted when it 
reaches about 0'5 per cent. 

Comparing the number of organisms in meat so treated 
with plain meat, Altschuler obtained the following figures : 



- 


Plain meat 


Treated meat (5 per cent, 
sulphite). 


First day 
Fourth day . 
Ninth day 


1,200,000 per gramme 
1,829,100,000 


1,200,000 per gramme 
2,500,000 
300,500,000 



Dr. Charles Harrington, loc. tit. - Ibid. 



75 

Dr. Harrington experimented with hashed beef divided into 
two portions. To the one 0'2 per cent, of sulphite was added, 
and both portions were kept in a refrigerator under similar 
conditions. The number of bacteria per gramme was esti- 
mated daily. 1 






Plain meat 


Preserved meat 


After 1 day . 


610,000 


1,760,000 


2 days 


1,045,000 


1,600,000 


3 


2,709,000 


2,709,000 


4 


6,579,000 


3,999,000 


5 


10,346,000 


2,322,000 


6 


26,313,000 


3,483,000 


7 


Very foul odour 


Faint rnouldy odour 



The salt exerts its influence best when the meat is kept at a 
low temperature, and apparently quickly loses its power at 
ordinary room temperatures, having in fact less preservative 
influence than the low temperature of a refrigerator. Gartner, 
as quoted by Dr. Harrington, obtained the following results : 






Untreated meat kept at 39 F. in a 
refrigerator 


After 24 hours 

48 . 


320,000 organisms per gramme 
575,000 







Meat kept at room temperature and treated 
with 0-09 per cent, of sulphite 


After 24 hours 
48 . 


448,750 organisms per gramme 
5,385,000 







Meat kept at room temperature and treated 
with 0'36 per cent, of sulphite 


After 24 hours 
48 . . 


448,750 organisms per gramme 
678,000 



The number of organisms found in meat to which a sulphite 
has been added bears no relation to the quantity of preservative 
present, being no doubt dependent on the number originally 

1 Dr. Harrington, loc. cit. 



76 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

present before the addition. Stroscher ] examined a number 
of samples containing from 0-029 to 0-520 per cent, of sodium 
sulphite with the following results : 



Quantity of preservative 


Number of organisms per gramme 


0-065 per cent. 
0-075 
0-080 
0-430 
0-470 
0-520 


62,096,000 
54,056,000 
13,500,000 (approximately) 
147,000 
14,138,000 
50,917,000 



The second effect of the addition of sulphite to meat is a 
remarkable preservation of the red colour, which may even 
become abnormally bright. This effect is apparently due to 
the formation and preservation of oxy-hsemoglobin, and is one 
of the chief incentives to the addition of sulphites to meat. 
An enormous quantity of minced or ground meat is sold on the 
Continent under the name of ' Hackfleisch ' and in America as 
'Hamburg steak.' According to Dr. Harrington this is pre- 
pared largely from trimmings and various inferior parts not 
otherwise saleable, which accumulate in the receptacles for 
waste at meat stalls, and thereby acquire an extensive bacterial 
flora. Such meat when treated by the addition of a sulphite 
looks invitingly fresh even when actually stale and swarm- 
ing with bacteria. The red colour is most intense on the ex- 
terior of the mass, and the interior may be quite dark, though 
changing to a bright red tint on exposure to the air. It should 
be noted that even stale meat which has darkened in colour 
will attain a bright red tint if treated with a sulphite, so long as 
the addition is made before decomposition has proceeded too far. 

A third effect of the preservative is to act as a deodorant, 
and so mask the foul odours of decomposition. Altschuler ' z 
found that untreated meat yielded 1,829,100,000 bacteria per 
gramme at the ' stinking ' stage, whilst another portion to 
which 1 per cent, of the salt had been added was without 

1 Dr. Harrington, loc. cit, - Ibid. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 77 

odour until the number of bacteria reached 4,757,000,000 per 
gramme. 

The objections to the use of sulphites in the case of meat 
are therefore obvious, without even taking into consideration 
the possibility of injury to health from the action of the pre- 
servative on the abdominal organs. 

For the preservation of beer the lime and potash salts are 
those chiefly employed, and, according to evidence furnished to 
the Departmental Committee, about 1 part in 5,000 is the 
customary amount. In the case of cider one of the witnesses 
stated that 1 part in 10,000 was a sufficient quantity. It has also 
been found in vinegar to the extent of 1 part in 5,000. Al- 
though these proportions are small, it must be remembered 
that both beer and cider may be consumed in large quantities, 
and if the results of the experiments referred to are applicable 
to human subjects, even 1 part in 10,000 cannot be regarded 
as free from the risk of insidiously producing disease of the 
kidneys and possibly of other organs. 

It is somewhat disquieting to find that so many of the 
preservatives most largely employed for preventing the decom- 
position of foods are alleged to have an injurious effect upon 
the kidneys. If proved, this would be a strong argument, if 
not for refusing to permit the use of such preservatives, at 
least for limiting their use to the smallest amount possible,, 
and for insisting upon the declaration both of the quantity and 
character of preservatives present in all articles of food and 
drink. In any case, were this done, the risks of danger would 
cease to exist for those who wished to avoid articles containing 
such preservatives. 



CHAPTEE VI 

CHEMICAL PRESEEVATIVES (continued) 
SALICYLIC AND BENZOIC ACIDS 

1. Salicylic Acid 

CUBING recent years it has been discovered that salicylic acid 
is present in a large number of fruits, and in various odorous 
flowers. In certain natural wines its presence has been detected, 
but whether it is derived from the original grapes, or from the 
grape stalks, or whether it is produced during the fermentation 
process, has not been positively ascertained. The oil of winter- 
green contains nearly 90 per cent, of the methyl ester, and it is 
probably the same compound which occurs in fruits. The acid 
has been detected in Portuguese, German, and Austrian wines, 
but the amount is very small, probably not more than 1 mlgm. 
per litre ; in any case a large volume of wine has to be taken 
for its isolation and identification. 1 It has been detected in the 
following fruits, and will therefore be naturally present in their 
juices : strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, currants, plums, 
cherries, apricots, peaches, crab-apples, and oranges. 2 Des- 
inouliere has estimated the amount present in various kinds of 
cherries, and finds that it varies from Ol to O21 mlgm. per kilo- 
gramme. 3 Up to the present time it has not been found in any 
fruit in a larger proportion. This quantity is far too small to 
have any effect as a preservative, but unless its presence is 
remembered, a wine or fruit juice may be certified to contain 
it as an added preservative, especially as it is the chief antiseptic 
employed for jams and other forms of preserved fruit, and 
also for beverages containing a considerable quantity of sugar 

1 The Analyst, vol. xxvi. pp. 274 and 72. 

2 Ibid., vol. xxviii. p. 149. 3 Ibid., vol. xxix. p. 90. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 79 

and little or no alcohol, such as cider, perry, beer, British wines, 
sweetened lime and lemon juice, and syrups, though it is to 
some extent supplanted by the use of sulphites in the case of 
beer and cider. 

It has also been found in butter, sauces and ketchups, in 
meat juices, potted meat, and sausages, in sherry, port, ipeca- 
cuanha wine, and orange quinine wine. 

Occasionally it is employed, either alone, or more usually 
in conjunction with boric acid, for preserving milk and cream. 

Like the other preservatives already mentioned it is generally 
sold under various trade names. Thus ' Cynin ' contains 
salicylic acid, borax, and glycerine, while ' Walter Gregory's 
Powder ' consists almost entirely of salicylic acid mixed with 
red oxide of iron. 1 

For pharmaceutical purposes the acid is either obtained 
from the oil of winter-green or of the sweet birch, or is made 
by combining phenol with carbonic acid gas, in which case 
impurities, such as ortho- and meta-creasotic acids, are apt to 
be included. It is to these impurities, rather than to the acid 
itself, that many of the ill effects produced when it is used as 
a drug are to be attributed, since such effects were more 
frequently observed when the acid was first introduced than has 
been the case since a far purer article has been on the market. 

It is a fairly reliable germicide, a solution containing, 
according to some observers, 1 in 400, and, according to others, 
2^ per cent, of the acid being sufficient to kill non-sporing 
bacilli in a few hours, but it seems to be unable to destroj 1 " 
anthrax spores. Wool impregnated with the acid is frequently 
used as a surgical dressing, though, if applied direct to a raw 
surface, it is apt to produce irritation. 

It is a good antiseptic, its action in this respect being well 
marked when it reaches a strength of 1 in 1,000, and it appeal's 
to have the power of inhibiting especially the growth of moulds 
and of those organisms which cause fermentation in prepara- 
tions of fruit and in the beverages already referred to. In the 
1 Beport of Departmental Committee. 



80 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

case of jams 2 grains per Ib. (0*03 per cent.), and in that of 
beverages 7 grains a gallon (O'Ol per cent.) are considered by 
some manufacturers to be sufficient for preventing fermenta- 
tion, 1 though these quantities are frequently exceeded, as much 
as 108 grains a gallon having been found in lime juice, 140 
grains a gallon in black-currant wine, 28 grains a gallon in beer, 
37 grains a gallon in wine, and 8^ grains per Ib. in jam. 2 

With regard to the effects exerted by salicylic acid on the 
digestive ferments, less attention has been paid than in the 
case of boric acid and formalin. A priori, taking into account 
its antiseptic and germicidal properties, it would be expected 
to have an inhibitory action in proportion to the strength in 
which it was used. 

Lauder Brunton 3 states that the action of ptyalin is arrested 
by 1 in 1,250, pepsin by 1 in 250, and pancreatin by 1 in 9,000 
parts of salicylic acid. 

Williams and also Starling 4 have found that this effect is 
only exerted in an acid medium, so that, whilst gastric digestion 
should be retarded, that of the pancreatic juice would probably 
be unaffected. 

Salicylic acid, or more usually its sodium salt, is frequently 
employed medicinally, and its pharmacological actions have 
been studied, the maximum single dose being 20 grains (reduced 
from 30 grains in 1898), whilst as much as 120 grains in the 
twenty-four hours is not infrequently given under careful 
supervision. 

Unless well diluted it acts as an irritant to the stomach, 
causing pain and vomiting. It circulates in the blood as 
salicylate of soda, and is excreted chiefly by the urine, either in 
the form of salicyluric acid or salicylic acid, the sodium salt 
having been acted upon by glycin, or by the acid phosphates 
of the urine respectively. 

On the heart it exerts a depressing effect, though this is 

1 lleport of Departmental Committee. 2 Ibid. 

3 Pharmacology and Therapeutics. 

4 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CHEMICAL PEESEKVATIVES 81 

probably to some extent due to the impurities already mentioned 
as being present in the artificial variety. 

Occasionally it acts as an irritant in its passage through 
the kidneys, producing albuminuria and even haematuria. 
Sometimes skin eruptions, erythemata or petechise, follow its 
administration. 

It is one of the few drugs that appear to act as direct 
cholagogues, giving rise to an increased flow of bile. 

It will thus be seen that salicylic acid is a powerful drug, 
and one which requires careful administration, and this is 
emphasised by the fact that it affords one of the best instances 
of the effects of personal idiosyncrasy in the production of 
toxic symptoms by the administration of a drug. 

In a considerable proportion of persons according to Hale 
White as much as 60 per cent. 1 a train of symptoms known 
as ' Salicylism ' occurs when the drug is given in pharma- 
ceutical doses. Amongst these deafness, headache, delirium, 
vomiting, haemorrhage in various parts of the body, failure of 
the heart, and death have been recorded. The dose necessary 
to produce salicylism cannot be definitely stated, since it will 
vary according to the age of the patient, the degree of idiosyn- 
crasy, and the condition of the excretory apparatus. 

Children generally take proportionate doses well, but great 
caution is necessary where the kidneys are the seat of disease, 
and also where heart disease is present. Stevenson 2 has cited 
the case of a physician in whom a dose of 10 grains would 
bring down the pulse rate by ten beats a minute. 

The untoward results above described were much more 
frequent formerly than at present, and it has been proved that 
they were due to impurities contained in the salicylic acid. 
Since pure acid has been used they have rarely, if ever, been 
recorded. Kolbe took one gramme daily for nine months and 
continued in excellent health, and many other observers 3 have 



Mater ia Medica. z Eeport of Departmental Committee. 

3 Food Preservatives. E. G. Eccles, M.D., p. 4'J. 

6 



82 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

administered the acid in daily doses for considerable periods 
without producing any unfavourable symptom. 

This acid is only used to a limited extent, and chiefly in 
liquids or foods containing saccharine matter. It is unlikely, 
therefore, to be consumed in any quantity or for any lengthened 
period, and if the amount does not exceed that which is really 
necessary for preventing fermentation, possibly no harmful 
results will follow. It is absurd, however, to suggest the same 
limit for all fluids, as has been done by the Departmental 
Committee, irrespective of the quantities which may be 
imbibed daily, of the conditions under which they may be 
stored, and of the length of time they are required to keep. 
Lager beer, for example, requires only to be kept for a com- 
paratively short time and is always stored in a cool place, 
whereas British wines, fruit juices, and syrups are expected to 
keep indefinitely, whether in a cool cellar or in a shop window. 
The latter, therefore, must require more preservative than the 
former, and the larger quantity should be permissible seeing 
that such liquids are only used in small quantities at a time, 
whilst lager beer may be drunk by the pint many times daily. 
The declaration of its presence and amount would probably 
meet most of the objections that can reasonably be raised to 
its use. 

Drs. McAlister and Bradshaw, in an article contributed to 
' The Lancet ' (March 14, 1903) on ' Salicylic Acid as a Food 
Preservative,' say that the acid is alleged to be injurious to 
health on three grounds : (1) that, being an antiseptic, it is 
liable to destroy the digestive ferments ; (2) that after absorp- 
tion it interferes with nutrition ; and (3) that it is an irritant, 
and apt to injure the mucous membrane of the stomach and 
intestines. The authors contend that the first objection is 
refuted by the fact that a saturated solution of the acid (1 in 
500) retards artificial gastric digestion of proteid matter only 
to the same extent as a solution of common salt of equal 
strength, and that an equivalent amount of sodium salicylate 
does not retard at all the digestion of starch by the pancreatic 
juice. "With reference to the second objection, experiments 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 83 

conducted by one of the authors upon himself and on some 
healthy children showed that no ill effects were produced. 
The adult took 5 grains daily, the children less in proportion 
to age and weight, the experiments extending over one month. 
They suggest that previously recorded experiments made with 
cats were not conclusive, as the cats probably refused the food 
owing to its disagreeable taste, and consequently suffered loss 
of weight from this cause. The third objection they meet by 
arguing that pure salicylic acid is certainly not more harmful 
to epithelium than pure hydrochloric acid, and that the latter 
acid diluted to the same extent (1 in 500), so as to correspond 
with the strongest aqueous solution of salicylic acid which can 
be administered, is a constituent of the normal gastric juice. 

Finally the authors contend that, as temperance beverages 
must not only be made to keep when bottled, but also for a 
reasonable length of time after being opened, some antiseptic 
is necessary. If the use of such an antiseptic as salicylic acid 
is prohibited, manufacturers will be compelled to use artificial 
essences less prone to decomposition, but probably more 
objectionable than the antiseptic. 

It has recently been contended that salicylic acid has a 
cumulative action, because it can be detected in the urine 
many hours after the last dose has been taken. Einger ' 
states that it is speedily eliminated, though a trace may remain 
for four days after discontinuance of the medicine. Bruce 
says, 2 on the other hand, that it is but slowly excreted in the 
sweat, saliva, bile and mucous secretions generally. Wood 3 
says : ' Salicylic acid escapes from the body chiefly through the 
kidneys, its elimination beginning almost immediately after its 
ingestion, but its elimination proceeds slowly. Thus in a case 
of exstrophy of the bladder it was detected in the urine dripping 
from the ureters eight and a half minutes after ingestion, and 
it has been found in the urine eight days after the exhibition 
of the last dose.' No reference is made in any of these works 
to any cumulative action. Experiments made by one of us on 

1 Einger and Sainsbury, Therapeutics. 
Bruce, Tlierapeutics and Materia Medica. 3 Wood's Therapeutics. 



84 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

healthy adults indicate that the acid cannot usually be detected 
in the urine for more than twenty-four hours after the last dose 
of 5 or 10 grains of sodium salicylate. With the larger dose on 
one occasion the acid was detected after thirty hours but had 
disappeared at the expiration of thirty-six hours. After taking 
doses of 5 and 10 grains daily for a week, the acid had dis- 
appeared in 30 hours in all cases. 

The acid is most frequently found in Lime Juice preparations 
and especially in the Cordial ; in fact, it is difficult to obtain a 
sample free from it, though in a few cases sulphurous acid is 
used instead. In such cordials the amount present varies from 
4 to 8 grains per pint, and a drinker of this temperance 
beverage would have to take a large quantity to imbibe 5 grains 
of salicylic acid. The citric acid would be much more likely 
to disturb his digestive organs than the salicylic acid, and in 
any case the latter would be eliminated from the system with 
sufficient rapidity to prevent any cumulative effects. Most 
probably the diuretic effect of the citrates would assist in the 
elimination. 

There is apparently no evidence that salicylic acid employed 
as a preservative has ever produced any injurious effects, 
though Dixon Mann, in his evidence before the Departmental 
Committee, mentioned a case in which the consumption of 
cider, into which the acid had been introduced, appeared to 
cause looseness of the bowels. It is obvious, however, that 
if the acid does occasionally produce symptoms of gastro- 
intestinal irritation, such symptoms are induced by so many 
and varied agencies that it would be practically impossible in 
most cases to trace the effect to the preservative. 

The United States Treasury have requested that their 
Consuls in France may be instructed to refuse the authenti- 
cation of invoices of fruits preserved by the introduction of 
salicylic or benzoic acid, as they consider food so treated to be 
injurious to health. Dr. Eccles * strongly protests against the 
action of the Treasury, affirming that that Department cannot 
adduce a single instance of harm resulting from the use of 
1 Eccles, Food Preservatives. 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 



85 



salicylic acid in preserved food, and Professor Ingram, 1 after 
examining the organs and tissues of animals fed on such 
food, declares that there is no injurious effect on any internal 
organ. 

(2) Benzoic Acid 

This acid is widely distributed in nature, being found in 
such resinous products as benzoin, balsam of Tolu, storax, 
and dragon's blood ; in essential oils, in cinnamon, bergamot, 
calamus root, cloves, &c. 

The acid or its sodium salt is occasionally used as a 
preservative, chiefly for the same classes of foods for which 
salicylic acid is employed. Thus it has been found in wines of 
low alcoholic strength, in medicated and sacramental wines, in 
fruit juices, jams, jellies, and ketchup, in ham, bacon, potted 
meat, minced meat and sausages. In France, when salicylic 
acid was prohibited, benzoic acid was to some extent sub- 
stituted, and this may possibly be the case in other countries. 

It has been long known as an antiseptic in surgery. The old 
remedy Friar's balsam owes its antiseptic action to the presence 
of this acid, and has been a favourite application to wounds for 
centuries. It is probably quite as powerful an antiseptic as 
salicylic acid, but, no one having any special patent for its 
manufacture, there has been no inducement for manufacturers 
to advertise its properties. AVernitz found that it arrested the 
action of enzymes in aqueous solutions, and the following table, 
showing the strength necessary to effect this and comparing it 
with salicylic acid, is taken from Brunton's ' Pharmacology ' : 



Diastase 



Salicylic acid 
Benzoic acid 



1 in 5,100 
1 1,025 



Invertin 


Ptyalin 


1 in 166 

1 400 


1 in 1,250 
1 2,600 






Pepsin 


Pancreatin 


Eennet 


Salicylic acid 
Benzoic acid 


1 in 250 
1 200 


1 in 9,000 
1 2,600 


1 in 200 
| 1 300 



Eccles, Food Preservatives, p. 15. 



86 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Brunton, quoting Croix and Koch, also gives the results of 
experiments showing that with meat infusions benzoic acid is 
more powerful than salicylic acid. 






Prevents:develop- 
ment of bacteria 
in meat infusion 


Kills developed 
spores 


Prevents develop- 
ment of spores in 
unboiled meat 
infusion 


Salicylic acid . 
Benzoic acid 


1 in 1,003 
1 2,867 


lin 60 

1 410 


1 in 1,121 
1 1,439 



With anthrax spores different results were obtained by Koch, 
salicylic acid being the more powerful. 

In medicine the acid is used as a stimulating expectorant, 
and for disinfecting the urinary passages. Whether exhibited 
in the free state, or as the sodium or ammonium salt, it is 
absorbed by the blood and excreted in the form of hippuric 
acid, the urine acquiring an acid reaction and on occasions 
being somewhat irritating. A little is excreted from the lungs 
and possibly the skin. In medicinal doses (10 to 15 grains) it 
does not appear to produce any toxic effect, and no evidence of 
a cumulative action is forthcoming, though both of these would 
presumably occur in persons whose excretory functions are 
inactive, and possibly where idiosyncrasy exists. 

Hutchinson stated before the Departmental Committee 
that he had experienced irritating effects locally after taking 
5 to 10 grains of the acid on an empty stomach. This, how- 
ever, has no bearing upon its use in very small quantities as a 
preservative. The arguments for and against its use are 
precisely the same as those given in the previous section in 
relation to salicylic acid. Of the two, it seems very probable, 
judging from medical experience, that there are fewer objections 
to the use of benzoic acid than to salicylic acid, and as it is 
much more difficult to detect and estimate, it is probable that 
in the course of time it will be much more generally em- 
ployed ; in fact there are reasons for believing that it is at 
present more extensively introduced than is usually supposed, 
and that its presence is overlooked. 



CHAPTER VII 

CHEMICAL PEESEBVATIVES (continued) 

FLUORINE COMPOUNDS, &c. 

Fluorine Compounds. Certain compounds of fluorine are 
found to possess marked antiseptic properties, and they are 
used to a small extent for preserving butter, cream, and beer. 
An attempt has recently been made to introduce them into 
this country for use in the manufacture of jams and other 
foods, but as yet the attempt has either been unsuccessful, or 
analysts have failed to detect their presence. Hydrofluoric 
acid and fluoboric acid are probably the most powerful of the 
fluorine antiseptics. Richmond 1 has shown that when the 
former is added to fresh milk in the proportion of 0'5 per cent, 
the sample remains sweet for a period of some months. This 
is, of course, a much larger quantity than would be required 
to keep milk for ordinary consumption. 

In the case of fluoboric acid the same observer found that 
O02 to O03 per cent, had an appreciable effect, and he 
estimated that it was at least five times more powerful as an 
antiseptic than boric acid. He also experimented with sodium 
fluosilicate, but found it too insoluble to be useful as a pre- 
servative, yet ' Salufer,' a solution containing O6 per cent, of 
this salt, is said to have a greater antiseptic effect than a 1 per 
cent, solution of mercuric chloride. 

Hydrofluoric acid is too powerful a drug to be added to 

food-stuffs, and the same applies to its simple salts. The 

solution of the acid used in medicine contains only 0.16 per 

cent, of the pure acid, yet doses of 15 minims of this 

1 Eeport of Departmental Committee. Appendix, No. XXXII. 



88 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

exceedingly dilute solution are said to often cause headache, 
nausea, and vomiting. Ammonium fluoride also causes gastro- 
intestinal irritation, a lowering of the blood-pressure, and 
slowing of the heart's action. The dose is 5 minims of a 
1 per cent, solution, and this may give rise to unpleasant 
symptoms. 

Some years ago one of us was consulted with reference to 
the suitability of fluorine compounds for preserving dairy 
produce, as it was stated that butter was being imported 
which contained these bodies, and in 1902 Hehner 1 pointed 
out that certain samples of Brittany butter contained fluorides, 
and stated that he had detected fluorine in twenty samples. 
The maximum amount met with was 4 grains to the pound, 
and he points out that a person using such butter might easily 
consume half a grain of sodium fluoride per diem. As the 
result of his experiments he concludes that O04 per cent, of 
sodium fluoride prevents salivary action, and that O02 per cent, 
greatly interferes with peptic digestion. From these ex- 
perimental results, and the consideration of a quotation from 
the American Dispensatory given below, he concludes that ' the 
quantities of fluorides that are used as butter preservatives are 
not without injurious action upon the living body.' The 
following is the quotation referred to : ' Waddell states that 
the alkaline fluorides are not pronounced irritants, but when 
taken internally in doses of a grain to a grain and a half 
continuously they reduce the force and frequency of the pulse, 
at the same time depressing the temperature and increasing 
somewhat the flow of urine, without distinctly affecting either 
the respiratory or the cutaneous functions. This accords with 
the physiological studies of Tappeneiner, who found in animals 
the soda salt to powerfully depress blood-pressure loj acting on 
the vaso-motor centres. Death after profound collapse was 
produced by centric failure of respiration. Dr. "Waddell also 
affirms that there is an enormous decrease in the number of 
red corpuscles, which he believes, but does not prove, to be the 

1 TJie Analyst, June 1902. 



CHEMICAL PKESEKVATIVES 89 

result of a direct action upon the spleen.' The action of boro- 
fluorides and silico-fluorides does not appear to have been 
studied, but from what has been said it is obvious that there 
can be no justification for the introduction of fluorine com- 
pounds as preservatives. Even if certain of them are five 
times more powerful as antiseptics than boric acid, they have 
so much greater an effect upon the human system that 
the latter (boric acid) must be infinitely preferable as a pre- 
servative. In any case the onus of showing that the fluorides 
are harmless in the quantities used should rest upon the person 
using them. 

Ammonium and sodium fluorides occur in certain preserva- 
tives sold in America for use in beer, and it is possible that 
they are employed to some extent in England, but, probably, 
no analyst in this country systematically examines foods for 
fluorides. 

Alum. This substance is not generally considered to be 
an antiseptic, but it is a constituent of certain preservatives 
sold for curing hams. An American ham preserver was found 
to contain 70 per cent, of potash alum and 21 per cent, of 
saltpetre. 1 It is also used to harden vegetables for pickling, 
and in baking powder to improve the appearance of the bread. 

It is not a desirable addition to food-stuffs, although it may 
be difficult to prove that any harm results from its use in 
minute quantities. The medicinal dose is 5 to 10 grains, 
but it is rarely administered internally. In larger doses it may 
cause constipation or gastro-intestinal irritation. Apparently 
it is not absorbed by the blood. 

Ammonium Acetate. This salt is used occasionally for 
preserving meat. The flesh is dipped into a strong solution 
and then allowed to dry, when it is said to keep well for 
a considerable period. The ammonium salt disappears on 
roasting or boiling. 

Copper Sulphate. Salts of copper are probably used more 
for colouring purposes than for preserving. The copper 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



90 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

forms with certain proteids a compound possessing a dark 
green colour, hence the use of copper salts for colouring 
preserved peas, French beans, and other vegetables. The 
statement that copper merely preserves the natural colour of 
these vegetables is entirely without foundation, since chloro- 
phyll after treatment with copper sulphate has its green 
colour destroyed when boiled with water, whereas vegetables 
which have been similarly treated retain their green colour 
in boiling water. The copper salt also hardens the exterior 
covering of peas, so that when preserved in bottles or tins the 
peas remain intact and the surrounding fluid clear. The integu- 
ment of peas not treated with copper easily disintegrates, and the 
fluid becomes turbid. When this occurs the peas may be con- 
demned as unsound, whereas they are perfectly good and whole- 
some. The subject will be further referred to in the section 
treating of colouring matters. 

Sodium Carbonate and Lime. These substances are some- 
times added to milk and cream. They do not act as preserva- 
tives in the quantity employed, but, by combining with the 
acid products of fermentation, they delay the souring which 
is the popular index of fitness or unfitness for use. For this 
reason their use is strongly to be deprecated. A saccharine 
solution of lime is sold under a fancy name for the above 
purpose. Both are harmless in themselves in the quantities 
used. 

Sulphuric Acid. This mineral acid is occasionally added 
in small quantities to inferior vinegars, to prevent fermenta- 
tive change. Its addition is totally unnecessary, but in the 
quantity usually employed it cannot be said to have any 
deleterious effect upon the consumers. 



CHAPTER VIII 

CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES (concluded] 

Formic Acid. A 60 per cent, solution of this acid has 
recently been introduced into this country as a preservative, 
more especially for liquids prone to fermentation. It is 
closely allied to acetic acid, but has usually been considered 
inferior thereto as an antiseptic. This is probably a mistake, 
as a research at the Pasteur Institute showed that as little as 
0-014 per cent, of the acid retarded the action of yeast, and 
that - 08 per cent, entirely prevented fermentation. Eoscoe, 
quoting lodin, 1 says, ' Formic acid is a powerful antiseptic, 
preventing fermentation, putrefaction, &c., even more power- 
fully than phenol does.' 

It occurs in the common nettle, pine needles, tamarinds, 
lemons, limes, and grapes. In raisins it is met with in larger 
proportions than in grapes, and very possibly it would be 
found in many more fruits were it carefully sought for. It 
is probably produced in small quantities in all fermentative 
changes, resulting in the formation of acetic acid. It is 
formed in the alimentary canal by the action of putrefactive 
organisms on fat, and its presence has been detected in the 
spleen, pancreas, thymus gland, muscle, brain, milk, sweat, 
and urine. In leucocythaemia it has been detected also in the 
blood and bone-marrow. It is contained in quantity in the 
bodies of certain ants, hence its name, and these animals are 
eaten as a delicacy by the aborigines of Australia. 

It is evidently, therefore, widely distributed in nature, 
but it has found little use in medicine. Eecently, how- 

1 lodin, Compt. EencL, Ixi. 1179. 



92 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

ever, Clement and also Huchard have recommended its use 
as a tonic. Clement's l observations show that formic acid 
is a powerful stimulant of muscular action, and in its tonic 
effects is closely allied to kola, cocoa, and caffein. Adminis- 
tered internally it dispels the sensation of general lassitude. 
Experiments controlled by the dynamometer and ergograph 
show that the muscular power undergoes a marked elevation 
within two days of the commencement of the treatment, 
whilst the amount of bodily exertion which can be undertaken 
without fatigue is increased. The dose administered was 8 
to 10 drops, four times daily, of a 25 per cent, solution diluted 
with aerated water. Subcutaneously administered, it has 
been found useful in lupus and in chronic inflammation of 
the kidneys. Clement, however, found that even small doses 
long continued tended to produce irritation of the stomach, 
and this may militate against its use as a preservative, if his 
results are confirmed. Eight drops of a 25 per cent, solution 
contain 2 grains of the pure acid. Assuming that Ol percent, 
were used for preservative purposes, a person taking about 
2 ounces of fluid would receive this dose. Obviously, therefore, 
in many articles of food and drink it would be easy to exceed 
this quantity, and in beverages especially the dose might be 
frequently repeated. Its use, therefore, may not be entirely 
free from objection, but most probably its great dilution 
would prevent any irritant action. 

Alcohol. This liquid when diluted possesses comparatively 
feeble antiseptic properties ; even when ' absolute ' an exposure 
of one hour or more is required to destroy non-spore-bearing 
bacilli. The presence of a certain quantity, however, tends to 
check fermentation, the amount necessary for this purpose 
depending upon the nature of the fluid. Probably not less 
than 5 per cent, will prevent change in ' still ' liquors, though 
less may suflice in beverages charged with carbonic acid gas. 
In British wines a deficiency in alcoholic strength indicates 
defective keeping qualities, and to remedy this salicylic acid 
1 Presse m6dicale, 1903, No. 67, p. 601. 



CHEMICAL PRESEEVATIVES 93 

or other preservatives are often used. Whether the special 
preservative or the alcohol is the more harmful may be open 
to discussion. 

Foreign wines containing a large quantity of fermentable 
sugar, such as port and sherry, are fortified by the addition 
of alcohol, but this aspect of the case is of more interest to 
the officers of the Inland Revenue than to the physician. 

Strong spirits are used for certain preserving purposes. 
Housewives, for instance, generally soak the tissue paper, 
which they lay upon the exposed surfaces of jams before tying 
over, in brandy to prevent the growth of moulds, and probably 
the addition of rum to mince-meat has a preservative action. 
In Ceylon arrack is added to curried meat to improve its 
keeping properties. 

Saccharin. This substance may be mentioned in connec- 
tion with wines and sweet beverages, inasmuch as it is used to 
replace sugar, and so reduce the tendency to fermentation. It 
is added to ciders and beers in the proportion of one-eighth to 
one-half an ounce per 100 gallons. It is affirmed that its 
addition disguises inferior qualities or liquors already showing 
signs of taint. A number of similar substances derived from 
coal-tar have recently been introduced, and there is reason to 
believe that they affect the digestive functions. Dr. Plugge 
' has shown that the addition of saccharin in artificial digestive 
experiments with various digestive ferments interfered with 
the breaking up of food substances. Dulcin, another sweeten- 
ing body, which has been used as a substitute for saccharin, 
was given to a dog at the rate of 1 gramme a day. The animal 
died in three weeks (Aldehoff).' l 

Vinegar is a very popular condiment and preservative. 
Taken in' excessive quantities it interferes with the digestive 
processes, and its use in such quantities, if persisted in, 
ultimately causes emaciation. Used in moderation, however, 
it is not likely to produce injurious consequences; neverthe- 
less, if it were not one of the oldest preservatives in use, 
1 British Medical Journal, May 10 ; 1902. 



94 PEESEEVAT1VES IN FOOD 

objections would be raised to its introduction. The effect of 
excessive quantities on adults and children, and its potential 
effect on invalids, would be dilated upon, and its use probably 
condemned. 

Peroxide of Hydrogen. During recent years processes 
have been devised for preparing this powerful oxidizing agent 
at a cheap rate, and it has been proposed to utilize it for the 
preservation of certain articles of drink, such as milk and beer. 
It readily parts with a portion of its oxygen, especially at a 
temperature of about 50 C., splitting up into oxygen and 
water. The oxygen liberated in the nascent condition appears 
to exercise a germicidal effect, and as only a little water is thus 
added to the liquid no trace of antiseptic remains. Tangott, 
as the result of a long series of experiments, concluded that the 
pure peroxide is twice as strong a germicide as carbolic acid, 
and Schillow finds a O5 per cent, solution kills the cholera 
spirillum in three minutes, and a 0*3 per cent, solution in an 
hour. The typhoid bacillus, however, proved far more resistent, 
requiring a 14 per cent, solution to kill in three minutes, and 
a 2 per cent, solution to kill in one hour. Schillow also found 
that the peroxide solution was several times more powerful if 
used at 38 C. than at 18 to 20 C. Dr. Budde, of Copenhagen, 
has recently patented the use of this article for sterilizing milk 
and other fluids at 50 C., and Dr. Lewin and others have 
conducted investigations to ascertain the effect upon milk 
when used as Budde directs. Lewin added to milk the typhoid 
bacillus, diphtheria bacillus, tubercle bacillus, spore-bearing 
bacilli of anthrax and from hay, respectively, and submitted 
the mixtures to the influence of varying quantities of the 
peroxide for varying times. He arrived at the conclusion that 
' three hours' heating of the milk at 50 C., when the right 
proportion of hydric peroxide has been added, is quite sufficient 
to obtain a well-preserved milk, free from all spores and 
bacteria, pathogenic or non-pathogenic.' Milk so treated is 
unchanged in appearance and taste, but it is admitted that the 
enzymes present in the milk are affected, and it is probable 



CHEMICAL PEESEEVATIVES 95 

that it is by the interaction of the peroxide and the enzymes 
that the nascent oxygen is produced. How far this change 
will affect the nutritive quality of the milk remains to be seen, 
but physicians in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden have re- 
ported most favourably upon it. The treatment above referred 
to is now known as the ' Buddeizing ' process, and liquids so 
treated are said to be ' Buddeized.' l The liquor hydrogenii 
peroxidi of the British Pharmacopoeia contains 3 per cent, of 
H 2 2 , or ten volumes of available oxygen. Solutions much 
stronger than this are now prepared. The dose is one-half 
to 2 drachms (1-8 to 7 c.c.). The solution is more frequently 
used as a spray, gargle, or dressing. It decomposes so readily 
when mixed with organic substances that the whole more or 
less rapidly disappears. It is very unlikely, therefore, that it 
will ever be used in such quantities for preservative purposes 
as to have any injurious effect upon persons using liquids to 
which it has been added. 

Asaprol, or Abrastol. The substance sold under these 
names is a calcium salt of /S-naphthol-sulphonic acid. It is a 
white powder, freely soluble in water, and it is claimed that it 
has antiseptic properties equal, if not superior, to salicylic acid. 
We are not aware of its presence having yet been detected in 
any article of food or drink, but there is very little doubt that 
it is being used. In medicine it has been recommended for 
use as an antipyretic in place of salicylic acid, in doses of 10 to 
30 grains. Should this substance be found in any article of 
food or drink, it would probably rest with the person who 
had added it to prove that it was innocuous in the quan- 
tity employed. The use of new chemicals should not be 
permitted until extended series of experiments have been 
made to demonstrate their suitability for the purpose of food 
preservation. 

1 Whilst these pages were going through the press an article has appeared in 
Tlie Lancet, January 27, 1906, by Professor Hewlett, in which he records 
experiments confirming Lewin's results, and expresses the opinion that the 
process ' has a great future before it.' 



96 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Crude Pyroligneous Acid. This is the crude acid obtained 
by the destructive distillation of wood, and containing large 
traces of creosote and other tarry matters capable of imparting 
to fish and flesh the odour and taste of smoked products. Such 
food stuffs may be effectually preserved by immersion for a 
period in this acid and after drying they are sold as ' smoked.' 
The time occupied in the process is much shorter than that of 
' smoking ' and the whole process is more under control. There 
is no doubt that the antiseptic principle in both cases is creosote, 
an acknowledged poison. How far the use of such a powerful 
drug is permissible in the preservation of food stuffs may be a 
debatable question, but as ' smoking ' is an ancient mode of 
preservation the point is never raised. Had it been a recent 
introduction there can be no doubt that it would have been 
received with a howl of execration, and the evidence adduced 
of the poisonous nature of the antiseptic would have sufficed 
to put an end to the practice speedily. According to Brunton -1 
* Creosote destroys low vegetable organisms, and prevents the 
fermentation which they cause. When administered to small 
animals it causes great dyspnoea, weakening of the heart's 
action, paralysis and often sudden death.' It destroys the 
epithelium, and large doses cause nausea, vomiting, colicky 
pains and diarrhoea. In doses of 1 to 5 minims it is used for 
phthisis and to check sickness. 

1 Pharmacology, TJwrapeutics and Matcria Medica. 



PART II 

CHAPTEE IX 

MILK 

HAVING discussed the chief methods by which the preservation 
of various foods is effected, we propose to deal with the 
question of the necessity and desirability of these processes as 
looked at from a public health point of view, and for this pur- 
pose it will be convenient to consider separately each of the 
principal foods which are subjected to preservative processes. 

Milk is perhaps the most important food in this connection, 
since, while it enters largely into the diet of most persons, it is 
the chief or only nutriment for infants, young children, and 
invalids, who together form an appreciable proportion of the 
community. 

As it contains all the elements of food it forms an excellent 
culture medium for nearly all kinds of bacteria, pathogenic 
and otherwise, many of which, in addition to any direct 
injurious influence on the human economy, are capable of 
decomposing some of the milk constituents, with the formation 
of products which may or may not be deleterious to the health 
of the consumer. 

Milk as it leaves the glands of a healthy cow is sterile, 
and can be collected in this condition if elaborate precautions 
are taken, but the opportunities for the introduction and sub- 
sequent multiplication of micro-organisms are so great, that by 
the time it reaches the distant consumer it seldom contains 
under 1,000,000 bacteria per cubic centimetre (16,400,000 per 
cubic inch), and may contain 10,000,000 to 15,000,000 per 
cubic centimetre. In one sample which was taken in the 

7 



98 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

month of February, we counted 16,600,000 organisms per 
cubic centimetre, notwithstanding the fact that the milk 
contained about 90 grains of boric acid per gallon. There had, 
however, been an interval of fully 48 hours between milking 
and the examination, and the milk was turning sour. 

The greatest degree of pollution probably takes place at the 
time of milking, which is not surprising when one considers 
the dirty state of the udders and flanks of the cow, the polluted 
air of the byre, and the condition of the hands and clothes of 
the milker, in many farms where no especial precautions are 
taken. 

Professor Bussell l recounts some experiments carried out 
by him illustrating the possibilities of pollution by neglect of 
simple cleanliness : ' A cow that had been pastured in a 
meadow was taken for the experiment, and the milking done 
out of doors, to eliminate as much as possible the influence of 
the germs in the barn air. Without any special precautions 
being taken, the cow was partially milked, and during the 
operation a covered glass dish, containing a thin layer of 
sterilised gelatine, was exposed for sixty seconds underneath 
the belly of the cow in close proximity to the milk-pail. The 
udder, flank, and legs of the cow were then thoroughly cleaned 
with water, the milker's hands washed first with corrosive 
sublimate, and afterwards with pure water, and the milking 
resumed. A second plate was then exposed in the same place 
for an equal length of time, a control also being exposed at the 
same time at a distance of 10 feet from the animal and 6 feet from 
the ground, to ascertain the germ contents of the surrounding 
air. From this experiment the following instructive data were 
gathered. When the animal was milked without any special 
precautions being taken, there were 3,250 bacterial germs per 
minute deposited on an area equal to the exposed top of a 
10-inch milk pail. After the cow had received the precautionary 
treatment suggested above, there were only 115 germs per 
minute deposited on the same area. In the plate that was 
1 Dairy Bacteriology, p. 46. 



MILK S9 

exposed to the surrounding air at some distance from the cow 
there were sixty-five bacteria. This in dicates that a large number 
of organisms from the dry coat of the animal can be kept out 
of the milk if such simple precautions as these are carried out.' 

Had the milking been performed inside the byre, the 
pollution would undoubtedly have been much greater. Under 
ordinary circumstances it is difficult to produce a milk 
containing less than 50,000 bacteria per cubic centimetre. 
With extraordinary precautions the milk may still contain over 
2,000 per cubic centimetre. 

Further contamination may arise from dirty utensils and 
milk cans, and exposure of the milk during transit and storing, 
while, at a favourable temperature, multiplication will 
rapidly take place, even though the initial number of organisms 
be small. 

Bacteria may also be introduced when the milk ducts are 
the seat of inflammation (mastitis), the fore-milk being 
especially affected, and likewise by the addition of water for 
purposes of adulteration. 

It will be gathered from these remarks, and also from the 
section dealing with the preservation of milk by refrigeration, 
that in warm weather it is impossible to supply good milk to 
consumers at a distance without taking some means to check 
the introduction and growth of these organisms. 

The methods chiefly employed are sterilization, pasteuriza- 
tion, refrigeration, and the addition of antiseptics. 

We propose to deal first with the addition of antiseptics, 
since this has been largely practised, is the easiest method for 
the milk dealer, and has given rise to great differences of 
opinion among medical men, chemists, and those connected 
with the milk trade. 

The commonest antiseptics in use are boric acid or borax, 
and formaldehyde, whilst salt, saltpetre, salicylic acid, the 
fluorides, and sodium carbonate are occasionally employed. 

The extent to which these chemical substances are added 
varies considerably, not only in the different seasons of the year 



100 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



but also in different parts of England. It is probably largely 
influenced by the energy or the reverse shown by the local 
authority in taking action in this matter. 

Some indication of the prevalence of preservatives in milk 
is furnished by the returns of public analysts who have 
systematically searched for these substances, though their 
figures, based as they are on a comparatively small proportion 
of the total milk supply, must necessarily be accepted with a 
certain amount of reserve. 

The following figures, taken from the Keport of the 
Departmental Committee, show the number of samples of milk 
examined for preservatives in different parts of the kingdom : 





Preservatives 


j Total 








contain- 


Percent- 


Locality 


Authority JnSL 


Boron 


Formal- 


ing pre- 
serva- 


age pre- 
serva- 


- 


i 


com- 
pounds 


dehyde 


tive 


tized 


Various . 


Government 










Laboratory 296 


48 7 


54- 


18-2 


Birmingham . 


Dr. Hill ! 1,537 








135 


8-9 


Glamorganshire . Mr. W. C. Williams 976 


17 


. 


17 


1-7 


Liverpool. . . 862 


12 


6 


18 


2-1 


County of Lancaster - 253 


2 









County of Lancaster 


489 





H 





\ 2 - 2 



In Cardiff 8-5 per cent, of the samples of milk taken in 1898 
were reported as containing boric acid, and the percentage 
rose to 13*5 at a later date. 

The above figures refer to samples of milk examined 
regularly throughout the year. In the summer the percentage 
preservatized rises considerably. Thus Dr. Muter found that 
during the months of September to December 1899 the 
percentages were 41, 29, 18, and 13 respectively. 3 

During the latter half of September and the first half of 
October 1901, out of 49 samples of milk taken in Leeds, 
preservatives were found in 25, a percentage of 51. 4 

1 One sample contained both formalin and boric acid. 

2 Two hundred and thirty-six further samples (489 in all) were only examined 
for formalin, and, supposing the proportion to be maintained, the totrl samples, 
pveservatized with boric acid or formalin would be 11, or 2-2 per cent. 

3 Beport of Departmental Committee. * Ibid. 



MILK 101 

In Birmingham, from April 1896 to September 1900, 1,877 
samples were examined. 1 During the six months November 
to April the percentage containing preservative was 4, whilst it 
rose during May to October to 16. 

Similarly a variation is seen between Sunday and weekday 
samples. In the Government Laboratory the percentage in 
the former case was found to be 28'9 as against 14'2 in the 
latter. 

When successful prosecutions have been obtained against 
milk dealers, on account of the addition of boric acid, formalin 
is frequently substituted. In Birmingham, for instance, when 
convictions were obtained in 1897 and 1898, the number of 
samples containing boric acid decreased, whilst those contain- 
ing formaldehyde increased : 2 





Percentage of sample containing 


Boric acid Formaldehyde 


Both 


1896 (April to Dec.) 8-3 
1897 . . . 5-5 
1898 . . . 3-1 
1899 (Jan. to Sept.) 1-2 


3-3 

6-7 
6-3 


o-o 

0-4 

o-o 



No figures are available as to the proportion of samples 
which contain salicylic acid, saltpetre, or the fluorides. Until 
lately it has not been the general custom of analysts to make a 
routine search for preservatives, and even when this is done 
attention is chiefly paid to boron compounds and formalin. 

Milk offers exceptional opportunities for the repeated 
introduction of antiseptics by different individuals between 
the time of milking and its consumption, and it is therefore 
not surprising that the quantities which have been found by 
different observers vary enormously. This may possibly be 
due to the difficulty which undoubtedly exists in making an 
accurate quantitative determination, but the figures show 
variations too wide to be explained in this way. In the case 
of formaldehyde there is no recognized method by which 
1 Report of Departmental Committee. - Ibid. 



102 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

the amount which may have been added can be ascertained, 
and the fact that a definite compound appears to be formed 
between this substance and proteids adds to the difficulty. 

The following table, taken from the Keport of the 
Departmental Committee, shows the maximum and minimum 
quantities of boric acid which have been found by different 
observers : 



Authority 


Amount of boric acid in grains per pint 


Maximum 


Minimum 


Professor A. W. Blyth . 


80-0 





Dr. W. Williams . 


26-2 


1-7 


Dr. J. E. Kaye . 


20-0 





Mr. W. P. Lowe 


20-0 


6-0 


Professor Thorpe 


17-5 





Dr. A. Hill 


15-7 


0-625 


Mr. C. E. Cassal 


12-6 


2-4 


Dr. E. Walford 


9-2 


0-35 


Dr. J. S. Cameron . 


2-5 






Although these figures show considerable variations, the 
differences are, with the exception of Dr. Blyth's case, not so 
much greater than those in the quantities of boron pre- 
servatives recommended by the manufacturers of these 
preparations. According to a list drawn up by Professor 
Thorpe in the appendix to the Beport of the Departmental 
Committee, these amounts vary from 1'2 to 14 grains of boric 
acid per pint, whilst in the case of ' Burton's Household Milk 
and Food Preservative,' which is described as 'harmless and 
effectual,' and appears to consist solely of boric acid, it is 
recommended that ' for small consumers a teaspoonful will be 
sufficient for a quart of milk/ J If these directions were 
followed, the milk would contain about 45 grains of boric 
acid per pint. 

A large number of dairymen furnished the Departmental 
Committee with a statement of the quantities of boric acid or 
patent preparations which they were in the habit of adding 

1 Beport of Departmental Committee. 



MILK 103 

to milk. These generally varied from 1 to 2^ ounces in 17 or 
18 gallons, which is equivalent to about 3 to 8 grains per 
pint. 

According to Mr. Brierley, 1 the ordinary practice in the 
neighbourhood of the borough of Southamption is to take a 
pound of boron preparation, dissolve it in 1 gallon of water, 
and add a pint of the solution to 8 gallons of milk. This 
would be equivalent to about 12| grains a pint. 

The quantity of formaldehyde which is added to milk is, 
as has already been indicated, a difficult matter to determine, 
since it somewhat rapidly decomposes in the presence of 
organic matter. The amount recommended, however, by the 
manufacturers of trade preparations varies from 1 part of 
formaldehyde 2 in 32,000 to 1 in 120,000. 

It is quite possible that this proportion may be exceeded, 
and one dairyman, in reply to a request for information, stated 
that he was in the habit of adding 1 gill of Schering's formalin 
solution to 17 imperial gallons of milk, during the three or four 
hot months of the year. This is equivalent to 1 part of formic 
aldehyde in 780 of milk. Others employed a proportion of 
1 in 20,000. 

With so strong a solution (formalin contains 40 per cent, of 
formic aldehyde) a small error in the measurement of the anti- 
septic will make a considerable difference in the proportion 
which it bears to the milk. 

As regards saltpetre, this is occasionally added alone in 
about the proportion of 3 grains per pint of milk, but it will 
sometimes be present in smaller amounts, often in conjunction 
with common salt, as a constituent of some preparation con- 
sisting chiefly of boron compounds. 

In order to arrive at a conclusion as to whether or not the 
addition of chemical preservatives to an article of food should 
be permitted or prohibited in the interests of the public, it 
is necessary to consider the two following questions : first, 
whether the presence of these chemical compounds, in the 

1 Beport of Departmental Committee. - Ibid. 



104 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

proportions necessary for preservation, is likely to be attended 
with injury to health ; and secondly, whether the trade of the 
country can be carried on without such additions. If the first 
question can be answered in the affirmative, the case for the 
total prohibition of preservatives is clear, whilst if in the 
negative, the second consideration becomes of importance, 
involving, as will be shown later, in the case of butter and 
dairy products the interests of the large export trade of various 
countries, including Ireland and the Colonies. 

A further point which must be considered is the possibility 
or otherwise of limiting by legislation the quantity and kind 
of preservative which may be permissible in different species 
of food, supposing total prohibition to be undesirable. 

As regards the addition of boron compounds to milk it will 
be remembered that, according to various observers, the 
smallest quantity of antiseptic which is of any service for the 
preservation of milk is about 4^ grains per pint, and that this 
proportion delays the souring process for only a few hours 
in hot weather, whilst many times this amount has been 
found on occasions. Now a considerable portion of the 
population of England, consisting of hand-fed infants, and 
persons suffering from various illnesses, notably typhoid 
fever, rheumatic fever, and acute and sub-acute nephritis 
(inflammation of the kidneys), lives almost exclusively on 
milk, whilst the same food enters verj' largely into the 
dietary of older children, and those who are the subject of 
the different fevers, gastric ulcer, gastritis, chronic Bright's 
disease, and other conditions too numerous to mention. Milk 
is, in fact, par excellence, the food for infants, children, and 
invalids. 

The volume of undiluted milk which should be taken per 
diem apart from any other food varies from about 5 pints in 
the case of an adult to 3 ounces in that of a new-born child. 
If we accept 4^ grains as being the minimum quantity of boric 
acid necessary to preserve a pint of milk, the adult will take a 
little over 20 grains, and the baby about two-fifths of a grain, a 






MILK 105 

day ; in the former case the pharmacopceial dose will not be 
reached, in the latter it would probably be exceeded. 

A child of four months takes about 15 ounces of milk 
(exclusive of water added for purposes of dilution), and this 
would contain a little over 3 grains of boric acid, the suitable 
medicinal dose at this age being about 2 grains. 

It will thus be seen that in an exclusive milk diet a quantity 
of boric acid nearly equal to or exceeding the full medicinal 
dose authorized by the British Pharmacopoeia will be intro- 
duced, even supposing that no more than 4| grains is added 
per pint, and that this administration will proceed for a con- 
siderable period of time. 

Some grounds for doubting whether this amount is 
sufficient to retard all the fermentative changes which take 
place in milk have been mentioned, and the analyses quoted 
show that in practice it is frequently exceeded. 

Dr. Wiley's investigations, and the other experiments to 
which we have referred, indicate the probability that moderate 
quantities of boric acid may interfere with the digestive pro- 
cesses or the assimilation of food even in healthy individuals, 
and we have given instances showing that ordinary medicinal 
doses occasionally produce toxic effects in such persons ; but it 
is in regard to departure from normal health that the subject 
assumes the greatest importance. Boric acid should only be 
administered, if at all, under the most careful supervision to 
people suffering from kidney disease or digestive troubles, 
occasions on which a milk diet is especially indicated, and 
Dr. Harrington's experiments, to which we have referred, 
should be remembered in connection with the former condition. 
Moreover, acute nephritis is not an uncommon complication of 
scarlet fever, and boracized milk may therefore be a source of 
danger in such cases, whilst, as already mentioned (Chapter III.), 
boric acid should only be administered with great caution to 
pregnant women, some authorities alleging that the drug exerts 
a contractile effect on uterine muscle. Again, in typhoid fever, 
when milk usually forms almost the sole article of diet for six 



106 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

or more weeks, it is of paramount importance that the digestive 
functions should not be interfered with in the slightest degree, 
and it is impossible to guarantee that such shall not be the 
case when boric acid or borax are added to the extent which 
actually occurs. It must be admitted, however, that typhoid 
patients are often treated with powerful disinfectants, which 
must necessarily interfere with the various processes of diges- 
tion, and that such patients are said to be greatly benefited 
by the treatment, but when this is the case the antiseptic 
is administered in known doses and under careful super- 
vision. 

Annett's experiments with kittens certainly suggest strongly 
that boric acid may act unfavourably on the nutrition of the 
very young, and though confirmatory evidence is wanting, his 
results have not yet been disproved. 

So large a proportion of the general population is included 
in the above category, that one is driven to the conclusion that 
boric acid, in the proportion necessary to ' preserve ' milk, is an 
undesirable constituent, and that its addition may be associated 
with considerable danger to health. The further objection, 
common to all preservatives, that their use permits of an 
' unclean ' milk being regarded as ' clean,' will be referred to 
later. 

In the case of formic aldehyde, beyond the suggestive 
epidemic at the Hendon Asylum referred to in Chapter IV., no 
direct evidence is forthcoming to show that injury has been 
caused by its use as a preservative, though the effects ex- 
perienced by Hehner after the self-administration of 1 in 12,500 
formaldehyde have already been quoted. 

According to Kideal and Foulerton 1 part in 50,000 is 
sufficient for the preservation of milk, but we have seen that this 
amount is frequently exceeded. By a reference to the chapters 
dealing systematically with the chemical preservatives, it will be 
observed that the digestive ferments are inhibited in proportion 
to the strength of the antiseptic, and that a definite compound 
is formed with the proteid molecule, whereby its digestibility 



MILK 107 

may be impaired. Hence it is obvious that unless it be possible 
strictly to limit the quantity of formic aldehyde, there is every 
chance that the nutrition of those who have to depend solely on 
milk as a food will be retarded, with a consequent danger to 
health. Annett's experiments on kittens, and Tunnicliffe and 
Rosenheim's observations on a delicate child suggest that this 
may be the case. 

Unfortunately there is no accurate method of determining 
the amount of formaldehyde originally added to milk, and so 
many opportunities arise for the repeated addition of a pre- 
servative that a definite limit would be almost impossible to 
enforce, 

We must therefore agree with the conclusion of the mem- 
bers of the Departmental Committee, that formic aldehyde 
should not be used as a preservative for milk. 

Salicylic acid is seldom employed alone for the preservation 
of milk, and does not seem to be well adapted for this purpose, 
but is occasionally contained in small quantities in mixtures 
consisting chiefly of boron compounds. 

The same objections to its use in milk hold good as with 
boric acid. The marked idiosyncrasy which exists amongst 
a proportion of the population in the case of this drug has been 
already referred to, and is an additional reason for objecting to 
its use in milk. 

Saltpetre, curiously enough, received very little attention at 
the inquiry of the Departmental Committee. The effects of 
this salt on the digestive ferments, on the gastro-intestinal 
mucous membrane and on the kidneys, have been mentioned, 
and it appears to us that it is, at least, as undesirable an 
addition to milk as the boron compounds. 

With regard to salt it is doubtful if a quantity short of that 
required to produce a saline flavour would be of any real service, 
and even this addition would probably be unattended with evil 
consequences. 

The remaining preservatives, the fluorides, have not 
received much attention ; such knowledge as we have of them 



108 PEESBBVATIVES IN FOOD 

is distinctly unfavourable, and unless they can be shown to be 
harmless, they too should be dispensed with. 

As regards sodium bicarbonate, we have already pointed out 
that its chief function is to neutralize the lactic acid pro- 
duced by fermentation. In this way milk which is under- 
going decomposition may be rendered palatable, and its real 
condition be masked. There is therefore no defence for such 
an addition. 

It has been suggested by some that, instead of prohibiting 
the use of preservatives entirely in milk, these should be limited, 
and declaration made compulsory. It is extremely doubtful, 
however, when one considers the method in which milk is 
distributed, whether this would be possible. Moreover the 
average consumer is unlikely to be able to form a judgment 
as to the desirability or otherwise of purchasing milk to which 
an antiseptic has been added, and the labelling of a sample as 
' preserved ' might lead him to believe that it was a better 
article than ordinary milk. 

Before leaving the subject it should be mentioned that 
many medical officers of health are of opinion that the addition 
of antiseptics to milk is one of the causes of infantile diarrhoea, 
and of the high mortality amongst infants under one year of 
age. It is a striking fact that although sanitation has made 
enormous strides in recent years, with a consequent progressive 
lowering of the general death rate, the infantile mortality 
(deaths of children under one year of age per 1,000 births) has 
increased. This is shown by the following figures (for all 
England) taken from the Begistrar-General's reports, and 
grouped in five-yearly periods : 



Five-yearly period 


Number of deaths of 
infants under 1 year of 
age per 1,000 births 


General death-rate per 
1,000 living 


1878-82 


142 


20-3 


1883-87 


143 


19-4 


1888-92 


146 


19-0 


1893-97 


152 


17-8 


1898-1902 


152 


17-4 



MILK 109 

Though suggestive, these figures by no means prove the 
causal relationship, since infantile mortality depends on many 
factors, involving among others the consideration of the em- 
ployment of female labour, overcrowding, hand-feeding, &c. 
It is always higher in towns than in the country, and there is 
a steady tendency towards the aggregation of the population 
in urban districts, with its natural consequences. 

There is, however, another manner in which the use of 
preservatives in milk may influence the infantile mortality, 
apart from the presence of the antiseptics themselves, since it 
is possible that, by deferring the souring process, milk may be 
sold containing not only deleterious products of fermentation 
other than lactic acid, but also pathogenic organisms such as 
those of the B. coli type, capable of causing injurious effects 
on the infants consuming it. In other words, the milk may 
appear to be fresh and clean, yet be stale and unclean, and 
potentially dangerous, without the purchaser being aware of 
the fact. 

This is a cogent argument against the use of preservatives, 
as, if their use is prohibited, it will be absolutely necessary for 
dairy farmers to maintain a very much higher standard of 
cleanliness in and around their cowsheds and in the actual 
milking processes than is often the case. At present the farmer 
who pays attention to matters of sanitation obtains no better 
price for his milk than one who, by the addition of preservatives, 
is able to partially neutralize the effects of the filthy state of 
his byres. The Cowsheds, Dairies, and Milkshops Order is 
practically a dead letter in many parts of rural England, but 
the prohibition of the use of chemical antiseptics in milk should 
go a long way towards securing the improvements which the 
Order has failed to effect. 

From what has been said it will be gathered that pre- 
servatives added to milk are a source of danger to the health of 
a considerable proportion of the public, and we now propose to 
refer to our second inquiry, as to whether the milk trade of the 
country can be carried on without the use of preservatives. 



110 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

That such is the case is proved by the fact that for some 
years the Aylesbury Dairy Company have been able to supply 
at least 100,000 persons a day in London with milk absolutely 
free from preservatives, although a portion of their supply comes 
from Wiltshire and even Cheshire, a distance of 200 miles. A 
few complaints are occasionally received as to the milk being 
sour on delivery (in 1899, out of 5,000,000 deliveries from the 
head office, 78 such complaints were made), 1 but there is no 
doubt that these could be prevented by the provision of better 
means of straining and cooling the milk at the farms and of 
keeping down the temperature during transit. Although the 
families supplied by this company are largely members of the 
well-to-do classes, a considerable trade is also done with those 
who buy the milk in quite small quantities. No doubt the 
same is true of many of the other large dairy companies. 

It will be gathered also from the table showing the pro- 
portion of samples of milk found to contain preservatives that 
over 90 per cent, of the milk sold in Birmingham, and nearly 
98 per cent, of that in Liverpool, is free from such addition. 
Of samples taken in the former town, in the six warmer months, 
84 per cent, were free from preservatives. Mr. T. Carrington 
Smith 2 by straining and cooling his milk was for several years 
able to consign 100 gallons of unpreservatized milk a day to 
London from his farm in Mid-Staffordshire, a distance of 120 
miles, with perfect success. His only difficulty occurred on 
Sundays on account of the absence of a morning train. It is 
obvious, therefore, that milk can be sent long distances, and 
yet be supplied in a good condition to the consumers without 
the addition of any preservative or the aid of heat. By efficient 
cooling milk can be kept from becoming sour for many days, 
but something more than mere cooling is required for the 
supply of pure, clean milk, and whether the milk be preserved 
by cooling, pasteurizing or sterilizing, the public ought to be 
assured that the original milk was ' clean ' that is, that it was 
produced under cleanly conditions, with access of the smallest 
1 Beport of Departmental Committee. 2 Ibid. 



MILK 111 

possible number of microbes, and that tbe preserving process 
took place before the bacteria had had time to produce any 
deleterious products. If clean milk is to be supplied it must 
be clean from the beginning, and to secure this, attention must 
be given to (1) the cows, to (2) the cowsheds, and to (3) the 
milkers and the process of milking. 

1. The Cows. These should be healthy. The owner 
should exercise continual watchfulness, and at once separate 
from the herd any animal found to be showing signs of general 
illness, exhibiting any eruption on the udder or teats, or any 
affection of the udder, and no milk therefrom should be sold 
for human consumption. No person would willingly or 
knowingly drink milk from a diseased cow, and he has a right 
to insist that no such milk should be supplied to him. Un- 
fortunately, as the law at present stands, the taking of this 
precaution cannot be legally enforced, but it is probable that, 
under the ' Sale of Goods Act,' if any person suffers loss or 
injury from the use of milk from an unhealthy cow he could 
recover damages from the person who supplied the milk. 
When the provisions of this Act become better known actions 
for damages will be more frequent. It ought to be a penal 
offence to sell milk from a cow suffering from any disease unless 
a certificate has been obtained from a veterinary surgeon to 
the effect that the affection is one which cannot possibly impair 
the quality of the milk. 

2. The Cowsheds. The cows should be kept under healthy 
conditions. When they are housed in cowsheds these should be 
clean, roomy, well ventilated, and well lighted. A cow can no 
more be kept in perfect health in a dirty, stuffy, ill- ventilated, and 
badly lighted shed than can human beings under corresponding 
conditions. A cow should not be regarded merely as a milk- 
producing machine, kept for the purpose of producing the 
maximum amount of milk, irrespective of its quality, but as an 
animal for producing a pure milk of good quality. To secure 
the requisite cleanliness the floor of the cowshed should be of 
hard and impervious material, and be properly drained. The 



112 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

ventilating arrangements should admit sufficient fresh air, 
without causing unnecessary draughts, and the lighting should 
be such that all parts of the shed can be distinctly seen, and 
so arranged that the milkers can see what they are doing and 
have no excuse for not observing dirt on the cows' udders or 
flanks. The floors should be thoroughly cleansed daily and the 
cows groomed regularly. A dirty cowshed not only affects 
the cleanliness of the cows, but also the purity of the air in the 
cowshed, increasing the number of bacteria which enter the 
milk in the process of milking. 

3. The Milkers and Process of Milking". The milkmen 
and milkmaids should be taught the necessity for cleanliness : 
cleanliness of the cow, cleanliness of their persons and especially 
of their hands, and cleanliness of utensils. They should be 
provided with soap and water and clean towels, and it should 
be someone's duty to see that they use them. Clean overalls 
should be provided for use when milking, and the milking- 
stool should be kept scrupulously clean. The milk pail usually 
employed is a most unsuitable utensil, exposing the maximum 
amount of milk surface to the possibility of contamination. 
A closed can with a small projecting funnel about 6 inches in 
diameter is far preferable, since it reduces the area of the 
surface exposed to about one-sixteenth. In many dairies great 
attention is given to the scalding of cans, whilst everything 
else is neglected, but in some instances even the cans are not 
carefully cleaned. Such vessels are too often washed in water 
derived from brooks and ponds, and of a grossly polluted 
character. Cleanliness cannot be secured without an abundant 
supply of good water, and unless a farm commands such a 
supply it is unfitted for dairy purposes. In cleaning utensils 
the water must be properly used. It will not efficiently sterilize 
the cans, strainers, &c., unless it is employed at boiling tem- 
perature, and it will not remove grease unless a little soda is 
added to it. After washing, a final ' steaming ' is desirable, 
after which the cans may be placed upside down on clean racks 
to cool and dry. 



MILK 113 

As no practical precaution can prevent the access of hairs 
and dust to the milk, some kind of straining is always neces- 
sary. The ordinary wire strainer is of very little service. The 
milk should be passed through two or more layers of cloth or 
through some of the pads now sold for the purpose, or filtered 
upward through sterilized sand, &c., as is done in some parts 
of Denmark. A few large companies adopt a somewhat different 
method of removing particulate matter, passing the milk 
through a centrifugal machine and afterwards mixing the milk 
and cream together. It is surprising to find what an amount of 
slimy matter adheres to the side of the machine when a sample 
of ordinary clean milk is passed through. This process fails 
unless the machine is thoroughly sterilized before use. Eecently 
one of us had occasion to examine a sample of milk before and 
after centrifugalization, and found more bacteria in the finished 
product than in the original milk. 

Milk which has been produced under the conditions and 
with the precautions described may be considered to be ' clean/ 
and it now remains to discuss how it can be maintained in this 
condition for a reasonable length of time without the addition 
of preservatives. This may be done either by the application 
or withdrawal of heat, but inasmuch as the application of heat 
affects to some extent the character of the milk, whilst the 
withdrawal of heat, or cooling, has no such effect, the latter is 
to be preferred and will be considered first. 

Refrigeration. From what was said with reference to this 
subject in Chapter I., it is obvious that the bacteria in milk 
multiply with such rapidity at ordinary temperatures that 
refrigeration, to be effective, must be carried out at the earliest 
possible moment after withdrawal of the milk from the cow. 
If the milk has been very carefully collected and is promptly 
cooled down to 50 F. it may be kept for forty-eight hours 
without the bacteria present reaching a million per cubic 
centimetre, but if not collected with special care it might 
contain two or more millions at the end of that period. At 
40 F. a carefully collected milk will keep upwards of forty- 

8 



114 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



eight hours and remain perfectly fresh and free from any 
excessive number of bacteria. The following table, compiled 
from the experiments of Parks, shows the effect of keeping at 
these temperatures of milks taken (a) with special precautions, 
and (6) with ordinary precautions. It will be observed that 
the former (a) after keeping 96 hours at 40 F. is far better 
than the same milk kept only 48 hours at 50 F., and nearly 
as good as (b) after keeping twenty-four hours at 50. 



Number of bacteria per c.c. 


(a) Milk drawn with 
special precautions 


(6) Milk drawn with 
ordinary precautions 


40 F. 


50 F. 


40 F. 


50 F. 


When freshly drawn 
After 24 hours . 
After 48 . 
After 96 . 


2,400 
2,500 
3,600 
218,000 


2,400 
11,600 
540,000 


30,000 
38,000 
56,000 
4,300,000 


30,000 
89,000 
1,940,000 



We may take it, therefore, that it will suffice to cool the 
milk down to 50 F., if the milk can be kept at this tem- 
perature and supplied to the consumers in less than twenty-four 
hours, but if for any reason it has to be stored for a longer period, 
or cannot be kept continuously at 50, it should be cooled down 
to 40 F. in the first instance. 

For cooling to 50 F. spring or well water, used with a 
suitable refrigerating apparatus, will usually suffice. Deep-well 
waters can rarely be used, as the temperature often exceeds 50. 
Rainwater stored in large underground tanks may be kept suf- 
ficiently cool for the purpose. In many districts sufficient snow 
can be collected during the winter to serve for the summer 
months. Certain farmers near Manchester ! have been able to 
do this for many years, and report that the cost does not exceed 
2s. Qd. to 5s. per ton. The snow is stacked in the open, with 
a covering of peat moss or sawdust about two feet thick. 

For temperatures below 50 F. a special cooling plant is 
necessary in summer, unless ice or snow is available. There 
are several makes of machines which are specially adapted for 

1 Beport of Departmental Committee. 



MILK 115 

this purpose. By one of the machines a stock of brine can be 
cooled to about 20 F., and this is used in the refrigerating 
apparatus for cooling the milk. 

If carriage by rail is necessary the cooled milk should be 
despatched without loss of time in sterilized churns, so con- 
structed as to exclude dust, and carefully cleaned before use. 
There is no doubt that a considerable portion of the advantage 
gained by the cooling of milk at the farm is lost by exposure 
to the sun before the churns are placed in the train, and by 
the unsuitability of the wagons used for the milk traffic by 
many of the English railway companies. If possible special 
vans should be used for this purpose, and though these are 
provided on many of the larger lines, there is still much room 
for improvement in this direction. In reply to inquiries by 
the Departmental Committee, it appears that two of the 
Southern lines provide no special trucks for milk, and that 
on no line are the walls or roofs double, whilst ice-wagons are 
unknown. Most of the companies take no special precautions 
to keep the wagons in the shade when not in use. 

This is not a matter in which the railway companies are 
likely to make improvements unless pressure is brought to 
bear upon them, and this can only be done by the large dairy 
companies into whose hands the milk supply of the towns is 
rapidly passing. 

On arriving at its destination, if the milk is not immediately 
distributed, the cooling should be maintained, and scrupulous 
cleanliness again observed. 

As an example which might well be aimed at in this 
country, the following extracts from the account given of a 
visit paid by some of the members of the Departmental Com- 
mittee to the premises of the Copenhagen Milk Supply Com- 
pany may be of interest : 

' The business premises are situate at Frederiksberg, and 
they have in all entailed an outlay of about 15,000. There are 
employed some 170 adults and 160 boys, and fifty-eight horses are 
in working. The water supply is from a well in the yard, taken 



116 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

from a depth of 51 feet from the surface. The water contains 
much iron and is filtered before use. 

' The ice-house has double walls, with intervals of 2 feet, 
the space being filled with sawdust, and beneath the floor there 
are arrangements for draining off the water resulting from the 
melted ice. 

' In August last, thirty-five farms were sending milk to the 
company. Every farmer's milk is tested, from 100 to 120 samples 
being chemically analysed, and some 40 samples physically 
examined, each day. Cows furnishing the milk must be kept in 
the fields till mid-September. The application of the tuberculin 
test is now not compulsory. Much of the milk comes by rail 
in special ice-wagons belonging to the company. Ice is intro- 
duced by openings in the roof into ice receptacles situate at 
either end of the wagon, the receptacles being provided with 
waste-pipes for the escape of melted ice. The ice is put in at 
the city premises, in order that the wagons may be sent back 
with the empty churns in a cool atmosphere. The air of one 
wagon was tested and found to have a temperature of 14 C. 
(57 F.) on a hot August night, the wagons having finished a 
day's travelling to the farm stations. The temperature was 
17 C. (63 F.) at 7 o'clock A.M. after the doors had been open 
all night. Each wagon takes 1,000 Ibs. of ice, and holds 105 
milk cans, each containing 50 litres. The ice comes from 
Danish lakes, and costs 2s. per 1,000 Ibs., including labour of 
housing it in the huge store chambers. 1 The charging of a 
wagon costs about 2s. Qd. About five million pounds of ice 
were used in 1889 on the premises. 

' Milk comes a distance of from 10 to 50 miles, the longest 
distance occupying three hours in actual transit, It leaves the 
country stations from 7 to 7.30 P.M., and reaches the premises 
in Copenhagen from 10 P.M. till midnight. The ice-wagons 
are attached to passenger trains. The milk is despatched from 
farms so as to reach stations only half an hour before the 
departure of trains. 

1 Ice costs 16 kr. (17s. Wd.) per ton when imported from Sweden. 



MILK 117 

' Milk is sent out for delivery in the city only once daily, so 
that although customers get their day's supply in two rounds, 
it is the same milk, the carts doing the circuit twice for the 
convenience of householders. No complaints have been re- 
ceived from customers. On Sundays only one delivery is 
made. Forty carts start about 5 to 6 o'clock in the morning, 
each cart having its specified " round." At the houses of the 
customers the milk is emptied from the churns into small 
"cans," and from these into the domestic receptacles provided 
by the householders. The taps of the churns on the carts are 
covered by metal flaps to prevent the ingress of dust and dirt 
to the muzzles, and special milk in bottles is placed in ice in a 
separate covered part of the van. Superfluous milk left over 
after the day's distribution (some 5 per cent, as a rule) is put 
through a separator, and the resulting cream made into butter. 

' The farms furnishing milk have an average of 150 cows 
each. The conditions which regulate the feeding of milch 
cows, their milking, the delivery of milk, &c., are very strict, 
and have been in existence for many years. A translation by 
Mr. A. Stewart Macgregor, late British Vice-Consul at Copen- 
hagen, runs as follows : 

' EEGULATIONS FOE CONTRACTORS. 

' A, Feeding and Management 

' I. The food of the cows must be of such a nature and 
quality that no bad taste or taint may be imparted to the milk 
by it. 

' (a.) Brewers' grain and all similar refuse from distilleries 
are strictly forbidden, as also is every kind of fodder 
which is not fresh and in good condition. 
' (b.) Turnips, kohl-rabis, and ruta-baga are absolutely for- 
bidden. No kind of turnip leaves may be used. 
' (c.) Carrots and sugar beets (mangolds) are permitted up 
to half a bushel per cow, but only when at least 7 Ibs. 
corn, bran, and cake are given along with them. 



118 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Cows supplying infant milk may get carrots, but 
never more than a quarter of a bushel per head. 
' (d.) Oilcake. Rapeseed cake is the only oilcake which 
may be used ; 1 Ib. is the furthest limit, along with 
at least 5 Ibs. corn and bran. Infant milk cows must 
not receive any cake. 

' (e.) The proportions in which the different kinds of food 
are to be given must be arranged with the company 
before the contractor commences to supply milk. 
' II. Stall feeding in summer will not be permitted under 
any circumstances. The cows must be fed in the open air 
upon clover and grass. Vetches are forbidden. In case of 
necessity dry food or cut corn may be given, but on the 
field. 

' III. In autumn the cows must be clipped on the udder, 
tail and hind quarters, before being taken in. 

' IV. Calving should be so regulated that the milk sent in 
during the months of September and October is not less than 
two-thirds of the largest quantity in any other month. 

' V. The milk of cows newly calved must be withheld for 
twelve days after calving, and must not be less in quantity 
than 3 imperial quarts per day. 

' B. Milking 

1 VI. The greatest cleanliness must be observed during 
milking, and the milk must be strained through a wire sieve, 
covered with a clean woollen cloth. 

' VII. Immediately after milking, and during all seasons of 
the year, the milk must be cooled down with ice-water to 40 
Fahrenheit. 

' VIII. Every contractor must be provided with a Lawrence 
cooler, which he can obtain on hire from the company. 

' IX. Thirty pounds of ice, making due allowance for waste, 
must be kept in stock for every 100 Ibs. milk produced, which 
can be calculated from the fortnightly trial milkings. 



MILK 119 

' C. Delivery of Milk 

' X. (a.) The milk must be delivered at the nearest station 
once or twice daily, according to the requirements 
of the company, either as whole milk, or as ' half- 
skimmed ' milk and cream. 

' (&.) The milk must not be sent from the farm earlier 
than is absolutely necessary for its arrival in 
proper time at the railway station. 

' c. In summer the van for conveying the milk to the station 
must be provided with a cover to protect the milk 
from the heat of the sun. 

' XI. The company will supply the cans necessary for 
transport. 

' XII. The company cleanse the cans before returning them, 
but they must be carefully rinsed out with cold water as soon 
as they reach the farm again, to get rid of any dust or dirt 
which may have adhered to them during the return journey. 

' The cans must be placed in a cool airy spot, until again 
required, protected from all impurities, with lids off, and bottom 
upwards, but in such a position that the air can freely get into 
them. 

' XIII. The cans may not be used for any purpose but the 
conveyance of milk. 

' D. Further Regulations 

' XIV. The contractor is bound, upon word of honour, to 
answer any inquiries made by the company concerning the 
milk supply. 

' XV. The contractor must allow any of the veterinary 
surgeons of the company to inspect his cattle as often as the 
company requires, and must drive the surgeon to and from the 
station. The contractor is bound to follow out closely the 
instructions of the veterinary surgeon. 

' XVI. Any cow declared by the veterinary officer to be suffer- 
ing from tuberculosis must be instantly and entirely separated 



120 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

from the rest of the herd, and should be got rid of as soon as 
possible. 

' XVII. The contractor must promise immediately to inform 
the company of any case of illness which may arise between 
two visits of the veterinary officer. If necessary, he must 
withhold his milk until the veterinary officer arrives and 
inquires into the circumstances. 

' In such a case the full price will be paid for the milk. 

' XVIII. The contractor, to the best of his ability, must 
watch over the health of all who reside on his farm, or work 
upon it ; also the families of the latter. 

' Should a case of infectious disease arise among any of them, 
he must immediately report the fact to the company, and with- 
hold his milk, which will nevertheless be paid for as usual, if 
these conditions are fully complied with. 

' XIX. Either of the contracting parties, after having given 
six months' notice, can terminate the contract on the following 
1st of January. 

' XX. Should the company find the milk of inferior quality, 
and therefore unfit for sale, they shall be entitled to refuse to 
take it, without giving any compensation to the contractor. 

' XXI. If owing to an epidemic, or other unavoidable cause, 
the sale of milk in Copenhagen should be suspended, the 
contractor must withhold his milk for a shorter or longer 
period without compensation. 

' The milk is placed in ice-water almost immediately after 
arrival on the premises of the company. It is taken from the 
wagons as soon as they can draw up at the special siding for 
unloading, the cans being raised to the level of the floor by 
a miniature lift. The temperatures of different milks taken 
haphazard on a hot night were 13, 13, 13, 16, 16 C., and 
one was 17 C. It would be about 6 C. when it left 
the farm, and all milk was again cooled down to that degree 
(43 F.) Women test the sweetness of the contents of each 
milk-churn, and throw aside the sample tested ; and it is 
stated that not even so rarely as once a month has milk to 



MILK 121 

be rejected. Each churn's milk is also tested as to temperature, 
and a register kept. Each can bears a seal showing its source 
of origin. The milk remains standing in ice-water till morn- 
ing, save that for children, which stands only half an hour for 
purposes of cooling. 

' Besides the cooling on reception by the company, milk has 
also to be cooled at the farms, the morning milk being kept in 
ice-water, and sent up with the evening milk, but in separate 
cans. The evening milk is sent whole, but, as a rule, only the 
cream of the morning milk. 

' Milk is screened at the farms as soon as practicable after 
being drawn. It is screened in the fields in summer, the milk 
of every two or three cows being put through a fine wire gauze 
covered with a cloth. Cows are milked in the sheds in winter, 
the milk being drawn away at once and screened. 

' The milk is efficiently filtered at the company's premises 
through four layers of gravel of varying sized pebbles, and 
three layers of cloth. There is also a smaller filter with two 
layers of gravel and two of cloth to be used only for any 
small amount of milk urgently needed. The gravel is washed 
with hydrochloric acid, and also with soda and water, and 
sterilized at 120 C. (248 F.) after each time of using. It is 
then dried in a high-pressure steam oven. The process of filtra- 
tion is upward, first through the lowest layer of coarse gravel, 
then through the intervening finer layers to the cloths of close 
texture. Before being filtered, the milk that has been standing to 
cool is intimately mixed with a perforated crescent-shaped metal 
disc, and stirred to obviate any unequal distribution of cream. 

' The milk can be kept sweet in the hottest weather. No 
trouble has been felt in the twenty-three years during which the 
company have been working. Milk drawn one morning will 
not in ordinary course be all of it used till the evening of the 
next day ; and this after having left the establishment about 
6 o'clock on the morning of the day succeeding its being 
drawn, for delivery on two rounds to customers. 

' Milk for children comes from special farms, and is watered 



122 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

down for infants with water which has passed through a 
Pasteur-Chamberland filter, which is cleansed weekly. All 
such milk is bottled in , ^, and 1 litre bottles, and sold at 2|d. 
per litre. The filled bottles are kept in ice, both on the 
company's premises and in the covered carts. 

' Great attention is paid to the cleansing of milk and butter 
receptacles by the company. The workers throughout the 
establishment are all in white, and are supplied with clean 
covering aprons twice weekly. The cans are cleaned by 
brushing with hot water and soda, and later washing out with 
hot water and lime, a ladleful of soda, about ^ lb., being used 
for each pail of water, and 20 Ibs. of lime to 900 litres of water. 
The outside is then washed and steam injected into the cans, 
which are left to drain alike by the company's servants and 
by the farmers. The latter have not their own cans. The 
apparatus in which the cans are washed is itself subjected to 
like cleansing. Bottles are first washed in soda and water, then 
placed over revolving brushes, and then steam-sprayed. The 
corks, which are used only once, are of special make, and are 
tied by hand and sealed. The butter pots and lids are washed 
in soda and water, and the pots only in lime and water also.' 

Pasteurization and Sterilization. The former term 
as applied to milk refers to the process of heating to a 
temperature exceeding 140 F., but less than 212 F., for a 
period varying from five to thirty minutes, whereby all 
bacteria except those which are spore-bearing may be assumed 
to be destroyed. It is doubtless this wide range in time and 
temperature which is responsible for the different opinions 
expressed with reference to the properties of pasteurized milk 
(and cream). This difference extends even to the flavour, some 
asserting that pasteurized milk has a different flavour from 
raw milk, others denying this, or affirming that no difference 
can be detected if the milk is cooled rapidly after heating. 

The process of sterilization differs from the one just de- 
scribed, inasmuch as the milk is kept at a temperature at or 
exceeding 212 F. for a period sufficiently long to destroy the 



MILK 123 

spores of any bacteria which may be present. This is a two- 
fold advantage, since the milk is not only entirely freed from 
organisms, but will keep for an indefinite period if delivered 
sealed in the bottles in which it has been sterilized. In the 
homes of the poor, where proper storage is always difficult and 
often impossible, especially in summer, this advantage is very 
considerable, but unfortunately such milk must be sold at an 
enhanced price, and this is an effectual bar to the general 
adoption of the process. 

Both sterilization and pasteurization should be effected as 
speedily as possible after the milk has been taken from the cows, 
otherwise the bacteria present may produce deleterious sub- 
stances not capable of being destroyed by the subsequent heating. 

Effect of Heat upon the Milk itself. This is a most 
important subject, and one which has received a good deal of 
attention both from chemists and physicians during recent 
years. It is obvious that if the digestibility of the milk is 
decreased or its nutritive value impaired, the advantages to be 
obtained by the heating process are diminished. It then 
merely becomes a question as to whether the advantages 
outweigh the disadvantages, and this we shall discuss presently. 
Milk undoubtedly does undergo some change w T hen heated, 
and although the nature of the change is difficult to demon- 
strate, the fact that there is a change can be show r n by 
simple chemical tests, even when the heat applied has not 
been sufficiently great to effect any alteration perceptible by the 
unaided sense of sight or taste or smell. Boiling increases the 
opacity of the milk and causes the formation of a film, changes 
obvious to the unaided senses. When the heat has not 
been sufficiently great to produce these obvious alterations 
chemical tests will still show that a change has taken place. 
Boiled milk requires a larger proportion of mineral acid for 
coagulation than raw milk, and under the microscope the fat 
globules are found to be larger after boiling. According to 
Rotch lactalbumin is coagulated at 162 F., and the rennin 
enzyme rendered inert at 165 F., hence we may assume that 



124 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

both these changes will generally have taken place in pasteurized 
milk. The phosphates present in milk appear to be attached 
to the proteid matter, but the combination is so easily broken 
down that the application of heat results in the separation of 
insoluble phosphates of calcium and magnesium. Milk 
contains according to Soxhlet about 0*1 per cent, of citric acid, 
and Dr. Netterdrew asserts that prolonged heating in some 
way diminishes this amount, arguing therefrom that as citric 
acid is an antiscorbutic, its removal or partial removal from 
milk causes or predisposes to scurvy-rickets amongst young 
children fed on such altered milk. De Kothschild and 
Abramoff believe that there is a sort of auto-peptonization of 
the milk during the first stage of sterilization, before the 
temperature rises sufficiently high to destroy bacteria. This 
peptonization is said to take place very rapidly, and it is 
argued that, as the subcutaneous or intravenous injection of 
peptones in small quantities is followed by haemorrhages and 
other symptoms of scurvy, the administration of auto-pepton- 
ized milk may give rise to the same symptoms. 

Others assert that raw milk possesses distinct germicidal 
properties and that these are lost after heating ; moreover, that 
this change, and the coagulation of the lactalbumin, and the 
alteration in the casein, rendering it less precipitable by rennet, 
all make the milk less digestible. After sterilizing by heat the 
slight power possessed by milk of acting upon starch is lost, 
and cream separates more slowly and in smaller quantity. All 
the above facts indicate that such milk differs considerably 
from raw milk. 

Do these changes affect (a) the digestibility of milk, or (6) 
its nutritive value ? These are most important points, and the 
opinions expressed are of a very conflicting character. It is 
held by some that the pasteurized or sterilized milk is as 
digestible and as good in every other respect as raw milk, 
whilst others contend that it is less digestible, and that 
children fed upon it are liable to attacks of infantile scurvy 
and rickets. 



MILK 125 

With reference to the relative digestibility of raw and 
boiled milk, it seems probable that individual idiosyncrasies 
may account for the different results obtained by different 
observers. Thus Hutchinson says that boiled milk clots in 
the stomach exactly in the same way as raw milk ; whilst 
others argue that, because the clot formed in vitro is less 
dense and appears more slowly after the milk has been boiled, 
it must do the same in the stomach. Even if such were the 
case this is no proof of the digestibility being decreased or the 
nutritive value impaired. On the contrary, some assert that 
the use of boiled milk prevents the formation of compact curds 
in the stomachs of children, and is therefore an advantage. 
Many experiments have been made by swallowing definite 
quantities of milk and washing out the stomach after known 
intervals. The results of these experiments are conflicting, 
some observers finding that the raw milk is more quickly 
digested, and others that the boiled milk more rapidly 
disappears. The difference in any case cannot be very great, 
and may depend upon the individual. The more serious 
charge against pasteurized and sterilized milks, that they tend 
to produce a form of scurvy, is based on the observations of 
physicians and may be founded on fact. 

Dr. Clement Dukes l has very strong views on this subject. 
He believes that the use of cooked milk is the cause not only 
of infantile scurvy but also of rickets ; he maintains that the 
injury inflicted upon the children of the present generation by 
the use of cooked milk far exceeds that caused by the use of 
raw milk. He quotes the results of the investigation made in 
1896 by the American Psediatric Association on the nature of 
the food used by children suffering from infantile scurvy ; 379 
cases were investigated with the following results : 

Food No. of cases 

Breast milk 10 

Breast milk with other foods .... 2 

Eaw cows' milk 5 

Pasteurized milk ....... 20 

1 Lancet, January 31, 1903. 



126 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Food No. of cases 

Condensed milk . . . . ' . .' . 60 

Sterilized milk . . . . . . . 107 

Proprietary foods . . . . . . 214 

The total, 418, is due to the fact that children fed on more 
than one kind of milk are enumerated under each appropriate 
heading; thus a child which had been fed on sterilized milk 
and some patent food would be entered under both. There is 
a fairly general consensus of opinion amongst those who have 
studied the subject and had the opportunity of making observa- 
tions, that scurvy-rickets occurs chiefly amongst the children of 
the better classes, and especially amongst those who take the 
precaution of boiling all milk before allowing it to be used, or 
who purchase sterilized milk. Children using such milk are 
not infrequently found to show signs of impaired nutrition, yet 
to improve rapidly when raw milk is substituted for the 
sterilized. Frequently, however, proprietary foods are used 
with the milk, and many of these are well known to tend to 
cause scurvy-rickets. 

This subject is becoming increasingly important on account 
of the number of towns in which the authorities are establishing 
depots for supplying 'humanized milk.' This system was 
started in France, and in several towns humanized sterilized 
milk has been supplied by associations for over ten years. The 
milk is properly prepared, measured into bottles, each containing 
sufficient for one meal, and then sterilized, after which the 
bottles are sealed and the milk distributed. The infants using 
the milk are weighed each week, and a record of their weight 
and general condition is kept. Dr. Variot, who has made a 
special study of this subject, says that at some depots 150 to 
200 children are constantly under observation. Many of these 
when they first come under observation at the depots are in a 
wasting condition, some are in an advanced stage of atrophy. 
' The tracings of their growth, without being as perfect as in 
the case of infants nursed by their mother, are nevertheless 
satisfactory in general.' l The proportion of infants incapable 

1 Dr. Ransom, British Medical Journal, February 22, 1902 



MILK 127 

of assimilating the milk does not exceed 4 per cent, of the 
total number using it. He has never met with a case of rickets 
or infantile scurvy which could in any way be attributed to the 
sterilized milk. Dr. Eansom, referring to the results obtained 
at the Nottingham General Hospital, where the milk is sterilized 
by being kept at the boiling-point for about ten minutes, says 
that the improvement which occurs in the nutrition of wasted 
infants brought into the hospital is rapid and striking, and he 
has never known scurvy-rickets or atrophy result from the 
feeding of infants with such milk. Dr. Eansom quotes the 
experience of other physicians to the same effect. One of us 
has made inquiries from the medical officers of the English 
towns where such milk depots have been in existence two 
years and upwards, and they are unanimous in asserting that 
no harmful effects of any kind result from the supply of sterilized 
milk, and that the children fed thereon thrive lustily, and are 
less liable to suffer from infantile diarrhosa than those fed on 
raw milk. When we consider also that on the Continent it is 
the rule to sterilize milk before use, and that cases of infantile 
scurvy and scurvy-rickets are very rare, it is obvious that the 
danger of contracting these diseases from the use of boiled milk 
is very slight indeed, and has been grossly exaggerated. It is 
possible, however, that even the infinitesimal danger could be 
avoided if milk were merely pasteurized instead of being 
sterilized. The distribution of pasteurized milk could only be 
effectually conducted by associations or public authorities. 
This is done in Copenhagen by an association called ' The 
Milk Supply Pasteur,' and the following description of the 
methods of preparing and distributing the milk is taken from 
the report of the Departmental Committee on the use of 
preservatives : 

' This firm, which has been in operation for five years, and 
which deals in the main with bottled milk, was devised and 
projected by Director Krohne, and with the scientific co-opera- 
tion of Professor Faber and Dr. Schierbeck of Copenhagen. 
The staff is a large one, 300 workers, including boys, being 



128 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

employed, and eighty horses being necessary. There is an ice- 
making plant on the premises. About 40,000 bottles of milk 
are pasteurized daily. 

' The farmers supplying the milk are under detailed control, 
and every month ot three weeks the farms are visited by a 
veterinary surgeon attached to the establishment. There are 
fixed regulations as to the fodder of the cows, for treatment of 
the milk, and for the notification of tuberculosis. 

' The institution itself is situated in the outskirts of Copen- 
hagen, and the railway wagons which convey the milk to 
Copenhagen are not provided with ice-chambers. The milk 
on reaching the factory is received into a reservoir, when it is 
duly weighed and strained, and from this it is pumped to a 
filter consisting of layers of gravel and felt, the whole apparatus 
being carefully sterilized daily. 

' After filtration the milk passes to the cooling apparatus, 
and from this to a second reservoir, from which it is pumped 
to the pasteurizing apparatus (which is also sterilized daily 
after use), where it is raised to a temperature of 85 C., the 
whole process being so arranged as to exclude the admission 
of air-borne organisms. The milk is then cooled to about 
3 C., the pasteurizing and cooling occupying altogether about 
five minutes. From the cooler the milk is led to a reservoir, 
also guarded against the entry of extraneous organisms, and 
from there to the bottle-feeding apparatus, a machine fitted 
with tubes, by means of which the bottles can be conveniently 
filled. 

' The bottles, which are furnished with glass stoppers, are, 
after being filled, carefully sealed to prevent their being tam- 
pered with. 

* The employees who are brought in contact with the milk 
are all under medical supervision. In the event of their being 
ill they are refused admission to the factory, and the same 
exclusion obtains if infectious disease is present in their homes. 
They receive under such circumstances full pay during their 
absence. 



MILK 129 

' The bottles which are used for small quantities of milk, as 
also the cans which are used for large institutions, are first 
thoroughly cleansed in hot water to which soda has been 
added the interior of the bottles being washed out by means 
of revolving brushes and after this they are completely 
sterilized in a large steam disinfector, which is kept at a 
temperature of 105 C. for half an hour. 

' The several processes are daily under control, both chemi- 
cally and bacteriologically. Specimens of pasteurized milk 
are tested daily by Professor Storch's reaction to ascertain 
whether or not pasteurization has been properly accomplished. 
Bacteriological examinations are made daily, and the per- 
centage of fat is also estimated. 

' The advantages claimed by the process may be thus 
summarized : 

' 1. All danger from the possibility of infection of the milk, 
either at the farms or during transit, is thereby discounted. 

' 2. The distribution of the milk in sealed bottles is a safe- 
guard against its infection or contamination in the milk shops 
or in the streets. 

' 3. The milk awaiting consumption in the houses is kept 
free from contamination by means of flies, dust, or polluted air. 

' It is claimed that this is the only practicable bottle system 
for milk at moderate price, and that the pasteurization of the 
milk places less onus on the farmers as to cooling, &c.' 

Although this company sends the milk out in bottles 
chiefly, there is no reason why the distribution should not 
take place in the usual way, if desired. 

The chief objection to these heating processes is that they 
are not necessary, since a simpler method is available for 
keeping milk sweet for a reasonable time, a process which does 
not reduce its nutritive value in any way : we refer to the 
preservation by ' cooling ' of milk from healthy cows, collected 
under sanitary conditions. This will, of course, necessitate 
proper supervision of the cows, the proper construction of 
cow-sheds, cleanly methods of milking and of storing milk. 

9 



130 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

No doubt all this means trouble to the farmer, trouble which 
he is averse to taking and probably never will take. If such 
is the case, the next best plan is to pasteurize the milk, thereby 
killing all the known disease-producing organisms, and most 
of the other organisms which enter the milk from diseased 
cows, dirty udders, dirty milkers, unclean utensils, &c. 

To sum up what has been said with regard to milk, we are 
of opinion that if chemical preservatives are added the quantity 
of the latter which will be consumed by infants and children 
and invalids is so considerable that there is an appreciable 
danger of injury to health, partly owing to the comparatively 
large amount of the antiseptic necessary for efficient preserva- 
tion, partly to the opportunities which occur for repeated 
addition of the preservative, and partly to the difficulty of 
enforcing declaration or any legal limit. With the present 
system of house-to-house delivery it is obviously impossible 
for the presence of a preservative to be efficiently declared. The 
addition of preservatives is particularly objectionable in the 
case of infants and of persons suffering from certain diseases in 
which milk is largely employed as a food, and in which the 
preservatives commonly in use are contra-indicated on account 
of either deficient excretory power or abnormal conditions of 
the digestive organs. To this may be added the idiosyncrasy 
which undoubtedly exists with regard to boric and salicylic 
acids. 

On the other hand, due consideration should be given to 
the effect of partially decomposed milk, during the hot weather 
especially, a change which is to some extent checked by the 
introduction of antiseptics ; and there is no doubt that, with 
the milk as it is, this is a real danger, and it must continue so 
until the traffic is conducted on more enlightened principles as 
regards cleanliness, asepsis, and refrigeration. 

We have, however, indicated methods by which too rapid 
change can be prevented, and the milk kept perfectly sweet 
and wholesome for a sufficient length of time. Of the two, 
refrigeration and pasteurization, the former is in our opinion 



MILK 131 

greatly to be preferred, as it necessitates cleanliness in the 
production of the niilk, whilst pasteurization and sterilization 
will tend to the negligence of the precautions necessary for 
the production of a pure, clean milk. Whichever is adopted, 
the keeping of milk in the dwellings of the poor will always 
be a difficulty, but it may in a measure be overcome by the 
gradual spread of education, and the improvement in the 
housing of this portion of the community. 

Looking at the subject purely from the sanitary standpoint, 
the case against the use of preservatives is a clear one. What 
the effect of the prohibition of their use would be on the small 
retail trader is a matter for conjecture. It would probably 
result in his disappearance except in rural districts ; and 
already this process is in progress in large towns, where dairy 
companies are gradually displacing their smaller rivals. This 
is not an unmixed evil, if it can even be called an evil, since 
many retailers in towns carry on their trade in premises quite 
unsuited for the business. This natural disappearance of the 
less fit will cause less outcry than the enforcement of oppres- 
sive (?) measures by the local authorities. 

These views are to a large extent borne out by the evidence 
given before the Departmental Committee, by many witnesses 
connected with the dairying industry. Whilst some of them 
considered that the prohibition of the use of preservatives 
would result in the monopolization of the milk trade by large 
companies, others admitted that every town could be supplied 
with good milk free from preservatives, and were ready to 
welcome the prohibition of their use. In fact the Dairy 
Produce Association of the Central Chamber of Agriculture 
forwarded to the Departmental Committee the following 
resolution : 

' That this meeting is opposed to the employment of 
preservatives (and colouring matter) in articles of dairy 
produce, whether British or imported, and that it be an 
instruction to the witnesses appointed by this Chamber to 
give evidence before the Departmental Committee to urge 



132 PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 

that, as preservatives (and colouring matter) are believed to- 
be deleterious to the health of invalids and children, their use 
should be prohibited.' 

In this country we are far behind others in appreciating 
the dangers arising from the use of unclean milk, and in the 
steps taken to prevent the injury arising therefrom. We 
have already referred to what is being done in Copenhagen,, 
and the action now being taken by the city of New York 
is well worth consideration, as it will probably be of greater 
advantage than the mere establishment of depots from the 
sale of humanized milk for children only. Dr. Chapin ia 
the originator of the scheme for providing a pure milk supply 
by the simple method of cleanliness and cooling. Through 
his efforts a Committee of the Medical Society of the County 
of New York held consultations with the milk dealers, with 
the result that a series of rules were drawn up, and the 
milk dealers complying with them were authorized to use 
caps on their milk cans stamped ' Certified by the Commission 
of the Medical Society of the County of New York,' or 
' Inspected Milk Commission Medical Society, County of New 
York.' 

A full account of the rules is given in the ' British Medical; 
Journal,' April 18, 1903. In view of the general opinion 
of English farmers, one of the most interesting regulations 
for the ' inspected ' milk is to the effect that it must ' average 
4 per cent, of butter fat.' The cooling of the milk must 
commence within thirty minutes from the time of milking, 
and the temperature of the milk must be reduced to 55 F, 
within two hours, and to 50 F. within three hours, and be 
kept at this latter temperature until delivered to the con^ 
sumer. When delivered it must not average over 100,000 
bacteria per cubic centimetre from May 1 to September 30, 
and not over 60,000 from October 1 to April 30. 

The provision of pure milk, without resorting to pasteuriza-. 
tion or sterilization is, however, now receiving increased 
attention in this country, and there are grounds for hoping 



MILK 133 

that improved methods will gradually become more widely 
adopted. 

Among other instances may be mentioned the model farm 
at Sudbury, Middlesex, and a private farm near York managed 
by Mr. Sorensen. Mr. Sorensen is of opinion that clean 
bottled milk could be retailed at the same price as is at 
present obtained for ordinary milk, if customers would 
be content with a single daily delivery, as in many towns 
abroad. In Leeds the City Council had for some time con- 
sidered the question of providing a depot for the distribution 
of bottled milk chiefly for the poor, and, after making many 
inquiries into the advantages and disadvantages of sterilization 
and pasteurization, it was decided in the first instance to rely 
upon cleanliness, straining, and refrigeration alone. Owing to 
certain legal difficulties of a financial character, the Council 
were unable to undertake the entire management, but a depot 
has been started by means of private subscriptions which 
promises to give favourable results, and this will no doubt be 
continued by the Council when the necessary powers have 
been obtained. A contract has been made with a farmer, 
whose farm premises are of a satisfactory nature, for the 
supply of milk under conditions of strict cleanliness. The 
milkers are provided with clean overalls, and are required 
to keep their hands in a cleanly condition. The cows are 
examined at frequent intervals by a veterinary surgeon, and 
their udders and flanks are cleaned prior to milking. The 
process of milking is periodically supervised. All the vessels 
employed are thoroughly scalded after use. The cows are 
milked in their byre, but it is probable that in course of 
time a special shed will be found to be desirable for this 
purpose. The milk is at once removed to a building only a 
few minutes' distance from the farm, where it is strained 
through a filter, passed over a cooler supplied with ice-water, 
and at once bottled into sterilized stoppered bottles, which are 
then placed in ice. The morning's milk is ready for distribu- 
tion by about 10 A.M., and the afternoon's by about 6 P.M. ; 



134 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

the latter is, however, usually kept in ice until the following 
morning. 

Too short a time has elapsed to form a complete opinion as 
to the success of the scheme, but the results of repeated 
bacteriological examinations are encouraging, both as regards 
the total number of organisms present, and the presence or 
absence of organisms of the B. coli group. It is the exception 
for the latter to be absent in -^ to -joW c - c - ^ ordinary milk, 
whereas they have only been found on very rare occasions in 
similar quantities of the bottled milk. The afternoon milk, 
as sold the following morning, frequently contains less than 
10,000 organisms per cubic centimetre. The bacterial con- 
tents of the morning milk are usually higher, the difference 
probably being due to the cleanlier conditions of the byre in 
the afternoon. It will probably be necessary to have a 
special shed for the milking process, as time does not allow for 
a thorough cleansing of the byre before the morning milking 
takes place. 

In concluding this section certain recent introductions, 
which may have some effect on our milk supply, may receive 
brief reference. The first is the preservation of milk, after 
pasteurizing at a rather low temperature, by the introduction 
of a mixture of carbon dioxide and oxygen. The company 
which owns this patent claims that milk so treated will remain 
sweet for several months. The process is somewhat as follows. 
The milk is first heated to 150 F., and then forced in a fine jet 
against an agate piston to break up the fat globules. It is 
then cooled to 40 F., and charged in bottles with a mixture of 
3 parts of oxygen and 1 part of carbonic acid at a pressure of 
50 Ibs. to the square inch. The bottled milk is heated to 150 F., 
then cooled, and the process is again repeated, after which 
the milk is ready for sale. The milk is said to be chemically 
unchanged, and to be as palatable as, or more palatable than, 
raw milk. The trouble and expense involved in this process 
will probably prevent its ever being widely adopted. In a 
previous section reference has been made to the use of peroxide 



MILK 135 

of hydrogen as a preservative for milk. In Denmark large 
companies have already adopted Budde's process in lieu of 
pasteurization, and it is alleged that the product keeps better 
and retains all the virtues of the raw milk which pasteurized 
milk admittedly does not. An attempt is being made to intro- 
duce the process into this country, and ' Buddeized ' milk will 
probably soon be found upon the market. It can be delivered 
in the ordinary way, or in sealed bottles. In the latter case 
sufficient milk can be purchased at one time to last one or two 
weeks or more. If experience shows that the nutritive effects 
of the milk are not impaired there is no doubt a great future 
for this process, but it is sincerely to be hoped, that the fact 
that the milk will ultimately be sterilized will not lead to 
further carelessness on the part of the milk producers and 
dairymen. So far as can be ascertained, ' Buddeized ' milk is 
superior to pasteurized milk, and if it can be sold at the same 
price as ordinary milk, as is alleged, it must command a large 
sale. Dr. Hewlett ] says that 15 c.c. of a 3 per cent, hydrogen 
peroxide solution is required to sterilize one litre of milk, so 
that the quantity of water added to the milk amounts to 1'5 
per cent. The cost of the chemical is insignificant, as dilute 
solutions are obtainable at about 2s. per gallon. The cost of 
the chemical would therefore be about one halfpenny per 
gallon of milk treated. The cost of the plant necessary is not 
great, but is probably more than the small farmers will care to 
lay out, in which case the milk supply will the more rapidly pass 
into the hands of the large companies, especially in towns. A third 
innovation is the introduction of ' dried milk.' This is a flaky 
preparation, made by the rapid evaporation of the milk at a 
temperature of from 220 F. to 230 F. The product is flaked, 
or converted into a fine powder, or compressed into tablets. 
One pound of the powder is about equivalent to 1 gallon of 
milk, and the solution in water has somewhat the appearance 
of milk and the flavour is apparently unaltered. Provided that 
good clean milk is used in the manufacture of the dried article, 

1 The Lancet, January 27, 1906. 



136 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

and that the desiccation is carried out immediately after milking, 
the product from the chemical and bacteriological point should 
be excellent. The powder will probably be in great demand, 
but at present it is impossible to form an opinion upon its 
dietetic value, or to say whether its use will be liable to produce 
infantile scurvy or rickets. When dissolved in water the 
product differs little from the original milk, but the percentage 
of butter fat seems to be slightly lowered, and there is some 
change in the casein, which results, however, in its forming 
with gastric juice a fairly granular clot comparable with that 
from human milk. Medical men who have used it in in- 
stitutions and in private practice regard the results as being 
satisfactory. 



CHAPTER X 



CREAM, BUTTER, MARGARINE 

Cream. The principal chemical substances used for preserv- 
ing cream are the same as those employed for milk : namely, 
boron compounds, and formic aldehyde ; the former is frequently 
combined with salicylic acid, salt, saltpetre, saccharin, and 
cane-sugar, but occasionally salt and saltpetre are used alone. 
The employment of ' saccharated lime ' has already been 
referred to. 

A much greater proportion of samples of cream contain 
these preservatives than occurs in the case of milk, owing, 
probably, to the fact that the former is largely sold by grocers, 
which entails storage for a considerable time. 

This substance, in which the opportunities for bacterial 
pollution are equally great as in milk, is not often taken for 
analysis, but an idea can be obtained as to the prevalence 
of the use of preservatives when it is stated that the latter 
were found in all of six samples analyzed by Mr. Collingwood 
Williams, in seven out of eight samples by Dr. Hill, and in all 
of eleven samples supplied to St. George's and St. Mary's 
Hospitals. 1 

The following are the maximum quantities of boric acid 
which have been found by different observers : 2 



Authority 


Percentage 


Grains per pint 


Mr. 0. Hehner . 


0-800 


70-0 


Government Laboratory 


0-651 


57-0 


Dr. A. Hill . 


0-600 


52-5 


Mr. C. E. Cassal . 


0-515 


45-0 


Mr. James Hudson 


0-450 


39-4 


Mr. W. C. Williams . 


0-434 


38-0 


Mr. C. W. Sorensen . 


0-225 


19-7 



1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



Ibid. 



138 PKESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The amounts of the trade preparations of boron recom- 
mended for the preservation of cream vary from about 6 '2 to 
54 - 6 grains per pint expressed as boric acid, and similar 
quantities were stated to be used by various dairymen in 
supplying information with regard to this point. 1 

The difficulties which exist in estimating the quantity of 
formaldehyde apply to cream equally with milk. One example 
examined in the Government Laboratory was found to contain 
less than 1 part of formalin in 100,000, though it is doubtful if 
so small a quantity would have any considerable preservative 
effect. 

Salicylic acid is, as has been mentioned, generally employed 
in conjunction with boron compounds, and only small and 
innocuous quantities would therefore be present, unless the 
mixture were recklessly used. 

The same applies to salt and saltpetre, though the latter is 
occasionally used alone in the proportion of about 2^ to 3 grains 
per pint. 

The question of the possible danger to health involved by 
the introduction of antiseptics is slightly different in the case 
of cream from that of milk, for, although larger amounts of 
these chemicals are necessary, in view of the longer period for 
which storage is required, the volume of cream consumed is 
very much less. Of the three preservatives, boric acid, formic 
aldehyde, and salicylic acid, the first is the least likely to be 
harmful, and if limited to one-quarter per cent, (a little over 
20 grains per pint), as recommended by the Departmental 
Committee, there is little probability that any harm will result 
in the case of a healthy adult, even supposing that he consumed 
as much as 2 ounces of cream every day, a somewhat unlikely 
supposition. 

On the other hand, cream is frequently administered, partly 

as a substitute for cod-liver oil, to infants, children, and persons 

suffering from anaemia, phthisis, and various wasting diseases. 

Even in this class of persons the small quantity of boric acid 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CEEAM, BUTTEE, MAEGAEINE 139 

which would be thus taken is not likely to cause injury to health, 
unless further quantities are at the same time introduced in 
the various other common articles of food for which boron 
compounds are employed. 

Occasionally, however, a mixture of cream and water is 
used as a substitute for milk for hand-fed infants with whom 
the latter disagrees : Biedert, for instance, recommends 4 
ounces of cream with 12 ounces of warm water and half an 
ounce of milk sugar for a baby a few weeks old. This would 
result in a daily dose of 5 grains of boric acid, a very excessive 
quantity at such an age. 

For the protection, therefore, of infants and invalids it is 
absolutely necessary that the preservative, if permitted, should 
be declared on the containing vessel, together with the quantity 
used, so that the medical man in attendance can forbid the use 
of such cream if he thinks it likely to do harm. Unfortunately 
the prevalence of the use of antiseptics and the possible 
effects of the amounts used are not so widely recognized by the 
medical profession as they should be, and the purchase of such 
articles of food is of necessity left to the head of the household, 
who cannot be expected to recognize the possible danger of the 
addition of preservatives. There is no doubt that, if prohibi- 
tion were enforced, the supply of cream would be entirely 
limited to the fresh article, or to that which had been subjected 
to sterilization ; but as it is a great convenience to be able to 
purchase cream from grocers and others who stock the article, 
possibly the declaration and limitation of the amount of pre- 
servative used would prove sufficient protection to the health 
even of those who take considerable quantities. 

There is a further danger which must be borne in mind : 
namely, that if the preservative is simply powdered on the top 
of the cream, admixture will almost certainly not take place, 
and the top layer may therefore contain a very large quantity 
of the chemical. This has actually been known to occur. 

That cream can be sold without a preservative is shown by 
the fact that the Aylesbury Dairy Company, who formerly 



140 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

added 0-2 per cent, of boric acid, have for several years been 
able to supply cream absolutely free from antiseptics, and the 
same is the case of the cream supply in Copenhagen. 1 

A daily supply, in conjunction with the precautions as to 
cleanliness and refrigeration mentioned when the question of 
milk was discussed, are all that is necessary for this purpose. 

The use of formalin is objectionable on two grounds : 
first, that as there is at present no reliable method of 
estimating the amount originally added, the enforcement of 
a legal limit is impossible ; and second, that it appears to 
be a far more potent substance than boric acid, and likely, 
therefore, to act more injuriously on the human economy. 

Salicylic acid does not seem to be an efficacious antiseptic 
for dairy products, whilst its medicinal effects are more marked 
than those of boric acid, and similarly saltpetre presents no 
advantage over this antiseptic. 

We are led, therefore, to the conclusion that so long as 
boric acid is used, and is carefully mixed with the cream in a 
proportion not exceeding one-quarter per cent., harm is scarcely 
likely to accrue save under exceptional circumstances, whilst if 
the use of preservatives were prohibited, cream could only, 
under the present conditions, be distributed by a daily supply. 
The question of sterilization with the subsequent exclusion of 
air has not been much discussed, though there is no obvious 
reason why this method should not be employed by grocers 
and others who wish to stock cream for considerable periods. 

Possibly after the addition of preservatives to milk has 
practically ceased a process which is almost sure to occur 
either by statute or by frequent successful prosecutions 
the introduction of more cleanly methods of milking, and 
greater facilities for cooling and cold storage, may lead to the 
spontaneous abolition of antiseptics in cream also. 

In any case the declaration of the amount would give 
medical men an opportunity of studying the effects of small 
doses of boric acid on the consumer, and if these are found to 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



CEEAM, BUTTEB, MAEGAEINE 141 

be harmful, the necessary steps could be taken to prevent its. 
being employed. 

The addition of alkalis, such as sodium bicarbonate and 
lime, to cream cannot but be prejudicial, as these substancea 
possess little or no antiseptic properties, and only tend to mask 
fermentative changes, and so lead to a false sense of security. 

The only other dairy product in which preservatives are 
frequently found is butter. They are apparently not present 
in condensed milk or in ordinary cheese, since in the Govern- 
ment Laboratory 196 samples of cheese and eighty-six samples 
of condensed milk were examined without detecting any pre- 
servative. 

It is probable, however, that had some of the many 
varieties of cream cheese been examined, preservatives would 
have been found. 

Butter. The process of butter-making is an example of 
the decomposition of some of the constituents of cream by 
bacterial agency. The flavour of a sample of butter is entirely 
due to these products of decomposition, and it has been con- 
clusively proved that objectionable qualities, such as that 
occurring in ' turnipy ' butter, are due not to the pasturage, but 
to a special micro-organism which has found its way into the 
cream, and set up a form of decomposition leading to the pro- 
duction of a taint. A very large amount of work in connections 
with the bacteria concerned in the ripening of butter and other 
dairy products has been done in Denmark and America, and the 
micro-organisms concerned in the production of the most appre- 
ciated flavours have been isolated in the laboratory, and they 
can now be purchased by farmers. They are technically known 
as ' starters.' As cream taken from the cow contains innumer- 
able species of micro-organisms, some favourable and others 
unfavourable to the production of high-class butter, it is obvious, 
that theoretically the best way of producing such butter is to 
kill off all the organisms present in the cream, and then add 
the necessary starter. This is actually done in Denmark with 
the most favourable results. The cream is first pasteurized,. 



142 PKESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

and then a certain quantity of milk in which the laboratory 
starter has been allowed to propagate is added, and the whole 
kept at the temperature found to be most favourable to the 
growth of the organisms. The best results are said to be 
obtained when the cream has been pasteurized at about 90 C., 
a higher temperature than that ordinarily employed. 

In 1891 only about 4 per cent, of the butter exhibited at 
the Danish butter exhibitions was made from pasteurized 
cream with a pure starter, but in 1895 no less than 86 per cent, 
of the butter had been so produced, and obtained the prizes 
awarded for first-class butter. 

Butter as made in the way usually adopted in England is 
liable to contain as abundant a bacterial flora as milk. In the 
centrifugalizing process for the separation of the cream some of 
the bacteria are driven out with the milk, and the remainder are 
carried down with the cream, whilst chances of further pollu- 
tion occur during the churning and packing. In the centre of 
a pat of butter 2,465,555 micro-organisms have been found in 
a gramme (15-5 grains), and as many as 47,250,000 on the out- 
side. Although pure butter fat is not so good a culture medium 
for bacteria as milk, yet a certain amount of buttermilk is 
usually left in the process, and provides a suitable pabulum for 
putrefactive organisms. 

From a consideration of these facts it will be gathered that 
some method must be adopted to exclude such organisms or 
to inhibit their growth, especially as butter requires to be 
kept for some weeks before it reaches the consumer. These 
methods comprise pasteurization, refrigeration, and the addi- 
tion of antiseptics. 

A considerable proportion according to some observers as 
much as half of the butter sold in England comes from 
Denmark, and is free from preservatives other than a small 
quantity of common salt. The remainder, excepting such 
as is produced locally, is chiefly derived from Ireland, France, 
and the Colonies, and most of this contains an antiseptic, 
almost exclusively consisting of boric acid or borax, usually 



CREAM, BUTTER, MARGARINE 143 

in conjunction with a small quantity of salt or saltpetre. 
Formaldehyde is also occasionally used. The reason for 
this difference lies largely in the fact that, whilst butter- 
making takes place throughout the year in Denmark, it is 
limited in other countries to certain months of the year, 
chiefly April to November, on account of the expense of 
winter dairying. Consequently, whilst Danish butter is con- 
signed once or twice a week throughout the year and is 
quickly consumed, that from other countries may require 
to be stored for many months. A possible further factor 
may lie in the fact that Danish butter is, as has already 
been stated, made largely from pasteurized cream with the 
assistance of pure starters, whereby the entrance of organisms 
concerned in the production of rancidity and other deleterious 
changes is hindered. 

The following table, taken from the Eeport of the Depart- 
mental Committee, shows the percentage of samples which 
were found by different observers to contain boron compounds : 



Authority 


Percentage 
preservatized 


District 


Government Laboratory 
Mr. L. K. Boseley 
Dr. Walford 
Dr. Hill . 
Dr. Williams 


57-1 
50-0 
44-5 
35-0 
35-1 


Home and abroad 
London 
Cardiff 
Birmingham 
Glamorgan 



The percentage of preservatized butters at different seasons 
is not liable to such variations as occurs in the case of milk ; 
in fact, since the local manufacture takes place chiefly during 
the warmer months, the prevalence of antiseptics is likely 
to be greater during the winter, when a quantity of pre- 
servatized samples come into the market. As an illustration 
of this, the percentage of samples of butter found to contain 
preservatives in Birmingham was thirty-one from October to 
March, as against twenty-three from April to September, 
during the period July 1896 to September 1899. 1 

1 Dr. Hill, Report of Departmental Committee. 



144 



PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 



Whilst, as will be mentioned later, many of those con- 
nected with the butter trade in Ireland, New Zealand, and 
elsewhere consider that preservatives are unnecessary, others 
who advocate their use are generally agreed that one-half per 
cent, of boric acid (35 grains per pound) is sufficient for all 
practical purposes. 

The following quantities have, however, been found in 
samples taken for analysis by different observers : 





Maximum 


Minimum 


Authority 


Per- 


Grains Per- ; Grains 




centage 


per Ib. 


centage 


per Ib. 


Dr. W. Williams 


1-600 


112 


0-014 


1-0 


Dr. Bernard Dyer 


1-350 


94-5 


0-030 


2-1 


Dr. J. H. Jones . 


1-300 


91-0 0-710 


49-7 


Dr. E. Walford . 


1-020 


71-4 





Mr. W. W. Fisher . . 1-000 


70-0 : 0-250 


17-5 


Government Laboratory . 0*935 


65-5 0-477 


33-4 


Mr. W. C. Williams . 


0-885 


62-0 0-015 


1-1 


Mr. W. F. Lowe 


0-714 


50-0 0-100 


7-0 


Mr. H. D. Eichmond . . 0'705 


49-3 










The export butter trade is largely in the hands of com- 
panies, having depots fed by neighbouring farms. These 
depots consist either of ' creameries ' as in Denmark, or 
' factories ' as in France. In Ireland both exist. At the 
creameries the milk or cream is received from farmers and 
made into butter, whilst at the factories the butter arrives 
as such from the farms and is blended at the central depot. 
It is obvious that in either case there is an opportunity for 
a double addition of antiseptic. Usually the preservative 
is added in weighed quantities during the making or blending 
respectively, and there should, therefore, be no difficulty in 
limiting the amount present. 

In some cases, however, it appears that French and. 
Australian butter is made without the addition of an anti- 
septic (other than salt), and is covered with cloths which have 
been wrung out of boric acid. 1 A certain amount of the 

1 Mr. Wheeler Bennett, Report of Departmental Committee. 



CEEAM, BUTTEE, MABGAKINE 145 

antiseptic is found in the interior of the sample in such 
instances. 

As in the case of milk and cream, the quantity of boric 
acid recommended for use by the manufacturers of patent 
preparations varies considerably. If the directions accompany- 
ing ' Kamsden's Milk Preserver ' are carried out, the butter 
will contain 125 grains of boric acid per pound. This prepara- 
tion is described as being ' Totally harmless to the most 
delicate child.' In the case of a similar mixture a quantity 
corresponding to 114-5 grains per pound (1-637 per cent.) of 
boric acid is recommended, whilst 1 per cent, is a usual 
proportion. 1 

At one Irish creamery visited by members of the Depart- 
mental Committee, pure boric acid is mixed with common 
salt, and added by the dairymaid in the nominal proportion 
of three handfuls to 56 Ibs. of butter. The dairymaid stated 
that she was able to estimate the amount required in this 
manner, and did not, therefore, weigh the preservative. On 
investigation it was found that the handfuls varied from 
1^ to If Ibs., whilst she was also not able to gauge the amount 
of butter at all exactly. 

Formaldehyde is comparatively little used for the preserva- 
tion of butter ; if employed the sample is usually allowed to 
steep for half to one hour in a solution of varying strength, 
and the liquid is then worked out. 

Saltpetre is occasionally employed alone, but more usually 
in conjunction with boron preparations or common salt. 
Larger quantities are necessary than in the case of boric acid, 
about a quarter of an ounce to the pound of butter being 
sometimes employed. 

Common salt is not often used alone as a preservative, since 
the quantity necessary for this purpose (10 per cent, or even 
more) would not now be tolerated. In most parts of England 
butter containing a small proportion, from to 2 or 3 percent. 
(35 to 210 grains per pound), is preferred to an entirely 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 

10 



146 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

saltless article, and possibly even this may assist in preventing 
rancidity. 

Boron preparations appear to be especially well adapted for 
preserving butter, and if any antiseptic is needed at all, they will 
probably be less harmful than formaldehyde, salicylic acid, or 
saltpetre. One-half per cent, is, as has already been mentioned, 
sufficient for all practical purposes, and with this amount there 
is little likelihood of evil consequences, especially as the con- 
sideration with regard to infants and invalids mentioned under 
the sections on milk and cream hardly applies to butter, so 
long as the other articles of food consumed are free or almost 
free from the same chemical ; but if this is also present in milk, 
cream, ham, bacon, fresh meat, and various other articles of 
common consumption for which boron compounds are used, 
even a healthy adult may obtain an overdose. It is therefore 
of importance that if the addition of preservatives is to be 
allowed, the quantity should be strictly limited even in butter. 

With the danger referred to above, it is desirable that the 
use of preservatives should be reserved chiefly for those foods 
for which they are practically indispensable, and in spite of the 
opinions of many, it is doubtful if butter comes under this 
category, since none of the butter from Denmark contains 
any preservative (beyond common salt) ; and in reply to cir- 
culars sent out to a number of large butter establishments in 
New Zealand, 60 per cent, stated that they had found pre- 
servatives unnecessary, 20 per cent, were undecided, or declined 
to express an opinion, whilst the remainder, including, it is 
true, some of the largest exporters, considered that they were 
necessary. Moreover, formerly at all events, two-thirds of 
the samples which left New Zealand were free from pre- 
servatives. 1 

Preservatives are rare in Canadian butter, 2 whilst at one of 
the Cork creameries it has been found that butter made from 
pasteurized cream, with the aid of a starter, will keep two or 

1 Mr. Carl W. Sorensen, Report of Departmental Committee. 
* Mr. James Biley, ibid. 



CEEAM, BUTTER, MARGARINE 147 

three weeks with one-half per cent., and two to three months 
with 3 per cent, of salt. 1 

To ensure a supply of butter free from preservatives 
several things are essential. The manufacture must be con- 
ducted with care and cleanliness, the use of pasteurized 
cream and a starter is advisable, the process must be carried 
on throughout the greater part of the year, or failing this 
cold storage must be provided, and better means must be 
adopted for the carriage of the butter on railways than at 
present exists. 

As regards the use of pasteurized cream, many connected 
with the butter trade consider that the flavour is thereby spoilt, 
but the reverse opinion is held by others equally well qualified 
to judge. From a theoretical point of view it is difficult to 
imagine why the flavour, which is due to microbial activity, 
should be inferior when the proper organisms are introduced 
.alone, to that produced when they obtain access in a haphazard 
manner, in company with innumerable other organisms of 
.doubtful influence as regards their action on the cream. There 
is not the shadow of doubt that objectionable flavours are due, 
not as has been erroneously supposed to the pasture, but to 
particular species of organisms which can be excluded by 
pasteurization, and in more than one instance in Denmark a 
.district with a reputation for poor butter has been able by 
biological means to improve the quality ; moreover, the chief 
prizes at the exhibitions have been obtained by butter made 
from pasteurized cream. 

In order that unpreservatized butter may keep, it is also 
necessary that as much as possible of the buttermilk shall be 
squeezed out, and that the percentage of water shall be kept as 
low as possible. With reference to the influence of butter- 
milk on the keeping qualities an interesting piece of evidence 
was given by Mr. Brierley to the Departmental Committee. 
Two jars of butter were received simultaneously from the same 
larm. One of the jars was broken during transit, and it was 
Report of Departmental Committee. 



148 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

necessary to wash the butter and re-work it, by which process 
most of the retained buttermilk was removed. This butter 
remained sweet, whereas the butter in the second jar when 
opened was in such a state of decomposition that it could not 
be used. 

Beference was made in discussing milk to the unsatisfactory 
conditions under which railway transport takes place on many 
of the lines, and the same is equally true in the case of butter. 
Not only is there a lack of special wagons properly constructed 
so as to keep their contents as cool as possible, but the butter 
is frequently badly handled, exposed to the sun, or packed in 
dirty vans used at other times for fish or cattle, whilst, owing 
to the heavy freightage charged on passenger trains by some 
lines, it must be consigned by slow goods trains. 

Fortunately, however, these conditions are not universal : 
the Great Southern and Western Kailway Company in Ireland 
are building wagons fitted with ice-receptacles, and provided 
with double sides and roofs, whilst the floors are to be lined 
with felt and contain an air space. Moreover, a special 
night train is run during the summer to catch the steamer at 
Holyhead. 

The Great Central, Great Western, and London and North- 
Western Companies provide special vans for large consign- 
ments, which in the case of the first-named line are conveyed 
by special trains. The Great Western Company provide 
wagons with ice-receptacles in some cases. No special pro- 
vision is made on most of the other English lines. 1 

The vessels conveying butter from Denmark, and also some 
of the steamers of the Cork Steam Packet Company, are fur- 
nished with refrigerating chambers for the carriage of butter. 2 

Looking at the whole question from the point of view of 
the sanitarian, one cannot but express a wish that the use of 
preservatives in butter should be declared illegal, since there is 
no evidence to show that the trade could not be conducted 
without this addition if the precautions already mentioned 
1 Report of Departmental Committee. * Ibid. 



CEEAM, BUTTEK, MARGARINE 149 

were adopted, as the unnecessary and repeated introduction of 
a substance normally foreign to the body cannot be deemed 
desirable from a physiological point of view. 

If prohibition were to entail pasteurization of the cream, 
there would be a further gain in the interests of the public 
health in the diminished risk of the transmission of infectious 
diseases, to say nothing of the poisons such as tyro-toxicon and 
allied products of decomposition, which dangers undoubtedly 
exist at present. 

On the other hand, there is a strong probability that there 
would be a considerable quantity of rancid butter in the market 
during hot weather, until the necessary organization had been 
perfected, whilst the Irish and Colonial butter trade would 
undoubtedly suffer, unless, as suggested by some of the wit- 
nesses examined by the Departmental Committee, a period 
of two or three years were allowed to elapse before the addition 
of preservatives was declared illegal. Pasteurization of the 
cream would probably prove to be essential, in which case the 
factory system would require considerable modification. 

By making the declaration of the preservative and of its 
amount compulsory, an opportunity would be given to the 
householder of refusing to purchase butter thus treated. This, 
however, was not among the recommendations of the Depart- 
mental Committee. 

Failing complete prohibition, as comparatively small quan- 
tities of boron compounds are quite sufficient for all practical 
purposes, there is no reason for permitting the use of any 
substance other than salt for flavouring. 

Margarine. This substance is even more frequently pre- 
servatized than butter, the antiseptic commonly employed, 
apart from salt, being boric acid or borax. In Liverpool nearly 
all the samples contained boron compounds, whilst the per- 
centage found to be thus treated in Birmingham was 84, and 
in samples from various sources analyzed at the Government 
Laboratory 77-4. l 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



150 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The reason for the frequent use of antiseptics is probably 
the fact that margarine is usually churned with milk, whereby 
a readily decomposable substance is introduced, together with 
the organisms capable of producing such changes. The 
manager of one of the large Irish creameries stated before the 
Departmental Committee that, although he used no boron 
preservatives for his butter, he had found it necessary to add 
one half per cent, of boric acid to all the margarine manu- 
factured. 

On the other hand the margarine imported from Holland 
is not made with milk, and no preservatives are added ; never- 
theless it keeps fresh for a month. 

Expressed as boric acid, samples of margarine have been 
found to contain 1-1 per cent. (77 grains per Ib.) by Dr. Hill, 
and 1'05 per cent. (73'5 grains per Ib.) at the Government 
Laboratory. 1 

As regards the advisability of permitting the use of 
preservatives, the same considerations apply as in the case of 
butter. 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee. 



CHAPTER XI 

ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

THE formation of alcohol and of some of the flavouring 
essences of alcoholic beverages is dependent on fermentative 
changes set up by the action of micro-organisms, chiefly yeasts. 
Usually a mixed culture of these yeasts is added to the sugar, 
which is the basis of the alcohol and ethers, whereby micro- 
organisms are frequently introduced which are either useless 
or produce unpleasant flavours, giving rise, in the case of beer 
to ' sick ' beers. Several such organisms, known in some cases 
as ' wild yeasts,' have been isolated, and certain brewers there- 
fore only employ cultures of organisms capable of producing 
useful products. These are analogous to the ' starters ' used 
in butter-making, but there is scope for much further 
investigation to put the matter on a firm scientific basis. 

A pure alcohol-producing yeast will convert sugar into 
alcohol and carbonic acid until the alcoholic strength reaches 
about 13 to 14 per cent., after which time the action ceases. 
It can, of course, be checked by pasteurization at any earlier 
stage according to the strength of alcohol required. Other 
organisms are capable of oxidizing the alcohol into aldehyde 
and acetic acids, the latter substance giving rise to sourness. 
Usually, minute quantities of aldehyde and esters are also 
produced during the fermentation, which are responsible for 
the flavour or bouquet of the fermented liquid. 

Beer and Cider. It is evident, therefore, that with 
beverages of low alcoholic strength such as beer and cider it is 
necessary to check the fermentation at an early stage, and also 
to prevent the growth of organisms which are concerned in 
producing sourness and the diseases referred to above. 



152 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

If a ' still ' beer or cider is required, fermentation can be 
stopped by pasteurization, filtration, or the addition of anti- 
septics. In bottled beer and cider fermentation is allowed to 
proceed, whereby the liquid becomes so charged with carbonic 
acid gas that further fermentation is prevented. Another 
method occasionally employed is to pasteurize the liquid and 
then charge it artificially with carbonic acid, but the resulting 
flavour is generally inferior. If a mixed yeast is used for 
brewing there should be a great preponderance of the useful 
varieties, in order that the proper degree of fermentation shall 
have been arrived at before the wild yeasts have time to act. 
Theoretically, there is an obvious advantage in employing pure 
yeast cultures, and this is frequently done in the case of beer, 
and, no doubt, could be done in that of cider. 

Nevertheless, there seems to be a growing tendency to add 
antiseptics to beer, chiefly salicylic acid or the sulphites 
(generally in the form of bisulphites of lime). Boric acid, 
benzoic acid, saccharin, and the fluorides are also occasionally 
used. 

According to Dr. Schidrowitz, who gave evidence before 
the Beer Materials Committee in 1898, the addition of these 
preservatives has been largely brought about by the increase 
of competition in the brewing trade, and the considerable sums 
which brewers are compelled to expend on tied houses. As a 
result an increased amount of beer must be turned out by the 
same plant, necessitating a very considerable reduction in the 
brewing time and the gravity of the beer brewed, and it is 
difficult to produce a good keeping beer without the use of 
preservatives. 

Out of 100 samples of imported beer examined in the 
Government Laboratory nineteen contained salicylic acid and 
twenty sulphites, a percentage of thirty-nine. 1 What proportion 
of beers brewed in this country contain preservatives does not 
appear to have been recorded. 

The smallest amount of salicylic acid which is sufficient for 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



ALCOHOLIC BEVEEAGES 153 

keeping beer is probably about 1 in 10,000, or - 9 grain per 
pint, and this quantity has been found by Mr. Cassal in a 
sample of bottled beer. In the Government Laboratory some 
imported beer contained 3-4 grains per pint. 1 One part of 
sulphite of lime in 5,000 appears to be necessary for beer (or 
about 1 grain of sulphur dioxide per pint). Mr. Chapman and 
Dr. Eideal have found 0-88 and 0'79 grain per pint respectively, 
whilst a sample of imported beer analyzed at the Government 
Laboratory contained 1'6 grains per pint. 2 

As far as these analyses go, therefore, it does not appear 
that the requisite quantities are greatly exceeded, and there is 
not the same opportunity for the repeated addition of pre- 
servatives that exists in the case of milk. 

Although beer is frequently consumed in far larger quantities 
than milk, there are not the same objections to the use of 
preservatives in the former as in the latter, since it is not used 
in quantities by infants, young children and invalids. 

With anything like a moderate consumption of beer there 
is little fear that a harmful dose of either of these antiseptics 
will be taken, and little objection can be raised to their use so 
long as they are not added in excess, or in order to mask 
deficiencies in the malting or brewing, even though they may 
not be indispensable. Additions are apparently sometimes 
made to disguise inferiority of quality, and saccharin is sold as 
a ' cure ' for ' sick ' beers. 3 

Probably the sulphites are less likely to be harmful than 
salicylic acid, as a certain portion will, except in the case of 
bottled beers, be converted into inert sulphates by the time 
they reach the consumer. 

As regards salicylic acid, the recommendation of the 
Committee that the amount should be limited to 1 grain per 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 2 Ibid. 

3 At a meeting of the Departmental Committee the following extract from a 
prospectus was read : ' As a cure for sick beers. Even when such a dubious lot of 
beer already begins to show signs of incipient " taint," there may yet be time to save 
it by quick action in introducing, as may be needed, from 1 to 2 ounces of 
saccharin per 500 gallons, and thereby arresting the souring process, and at once 
making the beer drinkable and marketable.' 



154 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

pint, and its presence declared, would meet all possible 
objections. 

Similar preservatives are used by many cider-makers to 
keep the cider clear, and to prevent the conversion of all the 
sugar into alcohol. 

Amongst the trade preparations may be mentioned ' Sugar 
of Boron ' ; ' Cynin,' consisting of salicylic acid, borax and 
glycerine ; ' Walter Gregory's Powder,' containing salicylic 
acid and red oxide of iron ; ' Hawke's Anti-ferment ' ; and 
' Cider Pasteur.' l 

The last contains calcium sulphite, and, according to testi- 
monials, 1 it is able to restore cider when the latter is rendered 
apparently worthless by the action of wild yeasts. 

The quantity of these antiseptics recommended is about 
2 to 5 grains a gallon, and, in the case of saccharin, about half 
a grain a gallon. Such amounts can hardly do any harm, bat, 
as in the case of beer, their presence may be an indication that 
due care has not been taken in the manufacture. 

One large firm of cider-makers, 2 who turn out 15,000 to 
20,000 gallons a year, find no difficulty in dispensing with 
preservatives. Only sound fruit is used, and after fermentation 
the cider is filtered. In addition to scrupulous cleanliness, the 
only precaution which is found necessary is to burn sulphur in 
some of the vessels which are intended to receive the filtered 
cider, and even this is not always done. 

There is no doubt that preservatives are not necessary 
either in beer or cider if the liquor is properly brewed from 
sound materials. The detection of preservatives in these 
beverages, therefore, indicates inferiority of quality, to say the 
least, and there is little doubt that had the brewing interest 
been less powerful the use of salicylic acid would have been 
condemned. 

Wines. When either a considerable quantity of alcohol or 
only a small amount of sugar is present in ' still ' wines these 

1 Eeport of Departmental Committee. 

2 Mr. Kadcliffe-Cooke, Eeport of Departmental Committee. 



ALCOHOLIC BEVEEAGES 155 

are not very liable to undergo secondary fermentation, since in 
the former case the amount of alcohol will serve to prevent 
further action, and in the latter the saccharine solution will be 
too dilute to undergo this change. 

Preservatives, other than possibly a little alcohol in the 
form of brandy, are therefore seldom added, whilst in the case 
of sparkling wines undue fermentation is kept in check by the 
carbonic acid produced. Mr. Cassal has, however, detected 
salicylic acid in port to the extent of 0-4 grain per pint, and 
in sherry to the extent of - 2 grain per pint. 1 These small 
quantities were possibly introduced by the blending of a rich 
and a poor sample, the latter containing the preservative. 

No properly made wine requires the addition of an anti- 
septic, and none, with the exception of common salt up to 
1 gramme per litre, is allowed in France, the chief wine-pro- 
ducing country of the world. 2 

The ' plastering ' of wine comes under a different category, 
being employed chiefly for cleaning purposes, though its use is 
somewhat analogous to the use of alkalis in milk and cider. 

Mr. Alfred Gilbey, of the firm of Messrs. W. & A. Gilbey, 
the celebrated wine merchants, said in his evidence before the 
Departmental Committee that he had never heard of an im- 
ported wine containing any preservative, except brandy, or any 
foreign colouring matter. The wines of low alcoholic strength 
are not shipped to this country as they ' would not stand the 
journey.' The process of wine-making as described by him is 
as follows : The fully ripe grapes are separated from the 
stalk and placed in a vat. The broken-up grapes and juice 
speedily commence to ferment when the skins and pips float on 
the top. The wine is drawn off in about ten days into hogs- 
heads, where the fermentation goes on for another nine months, 
after which it is placed in cellars, and kept there until three 
years old, when it is bottled and sent to this country, and sold 
at prices varying from Is. per bottle upwards. With slight 
variations all light wines are made in this way. He is of 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee. - Ibid. 



156 PEESEEVATIYES IN FOOD 

opinion that the light wines sold at the above-mentioned price 
are as pure and wholesome as the most expensive wines, and 
he knows of no reason why they should not be, the juice of the 
grape being so cheap and plentiful. There is no difficulty in 
keeping such wine, and the addition of any preservative is 
therefore totally unnecessary. 

The case is very different as regards English wines, which 
frequently contain considerable quantities of preservatives, 
chiefly salicylic acid, benzoic acid, sulphites, and formalde- 
hyde. 

Salicylic acid has been found in raspberry, ginger, and 
black-currant wines in quantities varying from 3'3 to 19 - 2 
grains per pint, whilst calcium sulphite appears to be added in 
varying proportions, the wine being kept until all smell of 
sulphur dioxide has disappeared. 1 

Although small quantities of these antiseptics are not likely 
to do harm, some limit should be fixed, as otherwise inordinate 
amounts may be used. British wines are of low alcoholic 
strength and usually rich in sugar, hence they are very prone 
to ferment. Makers have no control over the way in which 
they are stored after reaching the retailer, and they may be 
kept for long periods and exposed in warm stores. Should 
fermentation take place the reputation of the maker suffers, 
hence the temptation to put in sufficient preservative to prevent 
decomposition under any condition of storage. These wines 
are never drunk in any quantity or taken systematically for 
long periods like foreign wines and beers, hence there is much 
less risk of harm ensuing from the use of reasonable quantities 
of preservatives. 

Mr. A. Gilbey is in error in supposing that very light wines 
are not shipped to England, as such wines made from grape 
must are largely used as a basis for British wines, fruit juices or 
flavouring essences and colouring matter being added according 
to the character of the wine desired. Such wines are perfectly 
wholesome, but do not correspond with home-made wines, and 

1 Beport of Departmental Committee. 



ALCOHOLIC BEVEEAGES 157 

the terms ' British ' and ' home-made ' are not therefore 
synonymous. 

The Departmental Committee expressed the following 
opinion : ' As regards wine, whether British or imported, we 
are of opinion that wine which cannot be kept without the use 
of preservatives had better not be offered for sale.' Doubtless 
this was based on evidence given to the effect that such wines 
can be made to keep without the addition of preservatives. 
Whether such is the case or not, the fact remains that most 
British wines do contain small quantities of preservatives, and 
makers of the highest repute assert that, unless some pre- 
servative is added, complaints are constantly received as to the 
keeping quality of the wines. 

Medicated wines have also been found to contain pre- 
servatives. These are usually taken in very small quantities 
and for limited periods, but, notwithstanding, such addition 
appears to us to be objectionable. The so-called medicated 
wines, sold at a cheap rate and containing quinine, or quinine 
and iron, or extract of meat, are often of very inferior quality, 
and preserved by the addition of salicylic or boric acid. These 
may be taken by invalids for considerable periods, hence the 
presence of preservatives therein is particularly objectionable. 




THE word ' temperance ' rather than ' non-alcoholic ' is used 
because, in such beverages as are of the sparkling variety, 
the dissolved carbonic acid gas is, in some cases, derived 
from the fermentation of sugar by a yeast, and a small 
amount of alcohol is therefore simultaneously formed. Some 
specimens of ginger beer, for instance, may contain as much 
as 3 per cent, of alcohol, whilst in herb beers the percentage 
may be less than one-half per cent., although it has been 
known to rise as high as 10 per cent. 

Many of these beverages, however, are free from alcohol, 
and where sugar is present atmospheric germs may gain 
access, and set up fermentative changes. Hence it is 
necessary to take steps either to check excessive fermentation 
or to prevent it entirely as the case may be, and this may be 
done by sterilization, pasteurization, filtration, or the addition 
of antiseptics. As regards the bottled beverages, alcoholic 
fermentation will be partly checked by the alcohol and 
carbonic acid gas formed. 

Carbon dioxide or carbonic acid gas is the gas used for 
aerating soda water, seltzer water, lemonade, ginger ale, &c., 
: and appears to have marked anti-fermentative properties, though 
it is not usually classed as an antiseptic. Beverages, which 
have been well aerated with this gas and efficiently stoppered, 
rarely, if ever, ferment or undergo any change due to the 
action of bacteria, and as a matter of fact such liquids if 
.examined a few days after preparation are usually found 
o be sterile. No doubt excessive indulgence in such aerated 



TEMPEEANCE BEVEEAGES 159 

beverages may cause inconvenience from their inflating pro- 
perties, but there has never been any occasion to think that 
the carbonic acid gas is harmful ; hence there cannot be the 
slightest objection to its use. These beverages are usually 
made by putting into each bottle or syphon a definite quantity 
of saline solution or of syrup, and filling up with aerated water. 
The syrups and solutions used are prone to change ; hence 
it is not unusual for them to contain preservative, and when 
such is the case the beverages prepared therefrom will contain 
preservatives. Imported syrup and fruit juices frequently 
contain salicylic or sulphurous acids, and are largely used for 
making beverages. 

In non-aerated beverages preservatives are frequently found. 
They have to be prepared in such a manner that the retailer 
may store them an indefinite period, and expose them in his 
windows ; and after sale the purchaser expects the contents 
of the bottle to keep fresh and sweet until all is consumed. 
Under such conditions it is surprising that more makers do 
not use antiseptics, and we are opinion that such are used to a 
larger extent than is usually supposed. Certain antiseptics are 
rarely sought for, and their presence is consequently overlooked. 

Out of 596 samples of temperance drinks examined at the 
Government Laboratory, preservatives were found in 115, or 
19'3 per cent. Salicylic acid was detected in sixty-four, boric 
acid in twenty-two, sulphites in nineteen, formalin in three, and 
a mixture of boric acid and salicylic acid in seven of the 
samples. 

Out of 103 specimens classified as ' Temperance Wines 
and Cordials,' preservatives were found in no less than eighty-six, 
or 83'5 per cent. In fifty-three cases the antiseptic was salicylic 
acid, in six sulphites, and in the remaining twenty-seven a 
mixture of salicylic acid and sulphites. 1 

Sulphurous acid is largely used for certain fruit juices and 
cordials. Benzoic acid is also probably used, but there is 
apparently no record of its presence being detected. The 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



160 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

amount introduced will depend upon the nature of the beverage, 
the length of time it may be in the hands of the retailer, 
and whether the whole contents of a bottle are likely to be 
consumed at once or to last for several days. Where the 
whole contents are consumed at once there is no need for an 
antiseptic, as, if the liquid is sterilized and bottled with proper 
precautions, it should keep an indefinite period. If, on the 
other hand, it is only used in small quantities at a time, it is 
difficult to see how it can be kept sweet without the addition 
of some preservative. 

Boric acid has been found in herb beers up to 7'3 grains per 
pint, and salicylic acid up to 8-1 grains per pint. In lime juice 
Mr. W. C. Williams has found 13-5 and Mr. Cassal 8 4 7 grains 
of salicylic acid per pint. In temperance wines and cordials 
salicylic acid has been detected in quantities up to 19 grains 
per pint, sulphites up to 4*5 grains of sulphur dioxide per pint, 
and formalin to the extent of 1 part in 25,000. 1 

Very much smaller amounts of these preservatives have 
been estimated in other samples which have kept equally well, 
and as considerable quantities of some of these beverages may 
be consumed by children as well as adults, it is desirable that a 
limit should be fixed and the presence of the preservatives 
declared. 

The suggestion of the Departmental Committee that the 
amount of salicylic acid permissible should be restricted to 
1 grain per pint is not likely to be adopted. It may be a 
proper quantity to fix for beers and beverages imbibed by 
the pint, but is too small to be of any service in syrups and 
concentrated essences used by the spoonful. In such beverages 
a larger proportion might reasonably be permitted. 

The objections urged against the use of antiseptics in milk 
do not apply in the case of temperance beverages, since they 
are not used as foods, nor are they articles of real necessity, 
but luxuries. Neither are they largely used by invalids or very 
young children, and if consumed in considerable quantities,. 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



TEMPERANCE BEVERAGES 161 

the sugar and acids, so generally present, are far more likely 
to cause derangement of the digestive functions than are the 
preservatives employed. Considering, however, that they are 
used most largely during the hot weather that is, at the 
time when preserved foods are more abundantly consumed, and 
when larger quantities than usual are likely to be found in dairy 
produce it is obvious that any danger arising from the anti- 
septics is likely to be accentuated by the employment of such 
beverages ; hence the desirability of reducing the amount used 
to the minimum, and of declaring the nature of the preservative 
present. The declaration cannot, of course, be hoped for unless 
rendered compulsory by law, as one maker is not likely to 
inform the public that he uses preservatives when his rivals 
do not. Were he to do so he would create a prejudice against 
the goods of his own manufacture, which might contain less 
preservatives and be in other respects more wholesome than 
the products of his rivals who make no declaration. Hence 
such declaration, if only partially adopted, might be harmful 
rather than beneficial to the general public. 

In aerated beverages, and in beverages intended to be 
consumed as soon as the bottles are opened, there is no real 
need for the use of antiseptics, and these are the beverages 
imbibed in the largest quantities. In concentrated liquors, 
syrups, cordials, and fruit juices, the use of suitable antiseptics 
in proper proportions may be permitted, as it is in the highest 
degree improbable that, in the dilute condition in which they 
are used, any harm will result. 



11 



CHAPTEK XIII 

FRUITS, JAMS, AND VEGETABLES 

As a rule fruits are very prone to change, especially if at all 
damaged, but no preservatives should be necessary to keep the 
fresh article a reasonable length of time. If the fruit is in 
such a condition that it will not keep without their use, it is 
almost certainly unfit for sale. Nevertheless formic aldehyde 
is occasionally sprayed on the surface of fruit to improve its 
keeping properties. 

In the case of bottled or tinned fruit and jams some method 
of preservation is essential, since a sample must be capable of 
storage for many months or even years. This can be effected 
by sterilization and exclusion of air, a method usually adopted 
in the case of whole fruits, though the colour and taste may 
suffer somewhat. Sulphurous acid or sulphites are occasion- 
ally added to bottled fruit, two samples out of forty-eight 
examined in the Government Laboratory being found to con- 
tain sulphites. 1 

Sterilization by heat is employed for jams ; the sugar added, 
however, may be regarded to some extent as a preservative. 

There is no doubt that with proper care jams can be 
made to keep for an indefinite period without the aid of pre- 
servatives. 

On the other hand a considerable proportion of jam-makers 
add antiseptics, chiefly salicylic acid, benzoic acid, or sulphites, 
and no doubt, if the fruit is not in a good condition, and if 
cleanliness is not observed, it is difficult to ensure the keeping 
qualities of jams without their use. Mr. Lowe detected their 
presence in half the samples which he examined, and Dr. Hill 
in five out of six. 2 

1 Eeport of Departmental Committee. ' 2 Ibid. 



FRUITS, JAMS, AND VEGETABLES 163 

It is claimed by those who advocate their use that the 
flavour of the fruit is partly lost by the prolonged boiling which 
is essential if preservatives are not added, whilst the jam also 
becomes thick and gluey, the sugar frequently crystallizing at 
the top. A more practical advantage gained by using antiseptics 
is that the jam so made will keep with about 6 per cent, more 
water in it than will an unpreservatized sample, and this 
represents 6 per cent, extra profit. 

The following quantities of salicylic acid have been found 
in samples of jam by different observers : l 







Salicylic acid 




Per een 


Grains per Ib. 

i 


Government Laboratory 
Mr. W. C. Williams . 


0-121 
0-064 


8-5 
4-5 


Mr. W. F. Lowe 


0-060 


! 4-2 


Dr. Voelcker 


0-050 


3-5 


Dr. Bernard Dyer 


0-007 


j 0-5 



The usual quantity employed by jam-makers is half an 
ounce to a hundredweight, or about 2 grains per pound. 

If preservatives are added in the small proportions indicated 
above no injury to health is likely to occur, but there seems to 
be no absolute necessity for their use, and it possibly encourages 
the employment of unsound fruit. Apricot jam, being made 
from the imported fruit pulp, is more difficult to manufacture 
without preservatives, since the pulp may often contain them, 
but it is quite possible to keep fruit pulp in stock tins or casks 
which have been fumigated with sulphur dioxide, if the pulp 
is first sterilized by boiling. 

Fruit pulp imported from the Continent is received in 
.casks, which when opened smell strongly of sulphurous acid. 
The amount of this preservative in the pulp appears to be 
very small and may be harmless. It is practically impossible 
to determine in such pulp what proportion of the fruit was 
rotten or in the early stage of decomposition, though a micro- 

'". ' Report of Departmental Committee. 



164 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

scopic examination may give some indication of the condition 
of the fruit at the time of packing. Many kinds of fruit, 
especially grapes and plums, can be successfully preserved by 
desiccation. 

Vegetables may be preserved by the exclusion of air, 
by desiccation, or by the addition of antiseptics, salt, saltpetre, 
or vinegar being chiefly used. As the last-named substance 
may contain sulphites, formic aldehyde, boric acid, or sulphuric 
acid, one of these may also be present in the pickle. 

The addition of copper to green vegetables is with the view 
of preserving the colour rather than to prevent fermentative 
changes, and this substance therefore hardly comes under the 
category of food preservatives. 

Vinegar has been found to contain 1*75 grain per pint 
of boric acid, 0-5 grain per pint of sulphur dioxide, and 2'5 
grains per pint of formalin. 1 These small quantities should be 
harmless, but they are quite unnecessary. 

Sauces and ketchups occasionally contain antiseptics other 
than salt, salicylic acid, sulphites, or benzoic acid being 
employed. These liquids have to be prepared so as to keep 
an indefinite period, and are only used in comparatively small 
quantities at a time, so that no harm whatever need be 
apprehended from the addition of reasonable amounts of 
preservatives thereto. 

1 Eeport of Departmental Committee. 



CHAPTEE XIV 

MEAT, GAME, EGGS, AND FISH 

MEAT foods are less liable to undergo rapid decomposition 
than dairy products, since the opportunities for bacterial 
pollution are usually fewer, and such organisms as gain access 
are only able to act on the outside of the carcass or joint. 

Nevertheless, during hot weather steps must be taken in 
the case of fresh meat to prevent decomposition whilst the 
meat is hung, and such measures are still more necessary in 
the case of ham, bacon, &c., which are not intended for 
immediate consumption. 

The methods adopted for different kinds of meat foods 
consist in refrigerating, sterilizing with subsequent exclusion 
of air, the addition of chemical preservatives, smoking, and 
drying, or combinations of these processes. 

The process of refrigerating calls for no comment. Cold 
storage is becoming more and more common in the large towns, 
to the great advantage of the butcher and the public. Such an 
establishment should always be attached to a public abattoir. 

The exclusion of air if properly carried out is satisfactory 
when the food has first been completely sterilized. There is, 
however, the risk of metallic contamination if tins are em- 
ployed : danger from this source is discussed elsewhere. 

Salting and pickling is carried out in four different ways : 

(1) salt is rubbed into the pieces of meat in a dry condition ; 

(2) the meat is soaked in brine ; (3) the brine is injected by 
means of a syringe into the connective tissue lying between the 
bone and muscle ; and (4) the pickling solution may be pumped 
into the aorta, and so, by means of the arterial system, into the 



166 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

substance of the meat. The last process is said to be com- 
plete in three or four minutes. 

Salt alone may be used, but usually a proportion of saltpetre 
is added. Alum and boracic acid are also frequently employed, 
and sugar enters into some formulae for pickling solutions. 
Common salt apparently acts partly in virtue of its antiseptic 
properties and partly by the abstraction of moisture. A 5 per 
cent, solution is said to hinder the growth of obligatory anae- 
robes, though not that of aerobes, whilst the growth of most 
bacilli is checked by a 10 per cent, solution. On the other 
hand brine appears to have little or no effect as a bactericide. 
Tubercle bacilli in cultures remain virulent after they have 
been covered with salt for two months, and cocci will thrive in 
a 15 per cent, solution. . 

The saltpetre is chiefly added to the pickle to prevent the 
decolourizing effect of salt on the muscle. 

The process of soaking meat in a solution of brine leads to 
an appreciable loss of nitrogen and phosphorus, certain 
albuminous bodies passing from the flesh into the pickle, 
reducing somewhat the nutritive value, and it is well known 
that the process of pickling renders meat somewhat more 
difficult to digest. Where the pickling by means of brine has 
not introduced any large quantity of salt into the meat, it is 
said to be ' mild ' cured, the term having special reference to 
bacon. 

English, Irish, and Danish bacon (using this term to include 
ham) seldom requires any further preservation, though occa- 
sionally during the summer a little boron compound may be 
dusted on the surface or introduced into the ' pocket ' (cavity 
from which the shoulder blade has been removed) to prevent 
fly-blow. Calcium sulphite is also used for this purpose. 

The change which has taken place during recent years in 
the public taste with regard to mildness has already been 
referred to, and, in the case of ham and bacon imported from 
America, it has therefore been found necessary to pack the 
' green ' sides in boric acid in order to prevent tainting and 



MEAT, GAME, EGGS, AND FISH 167 

fly-blow during the voyage. A small proportion of the products 
from these countries is still packed in common salt, but absorp- 
tion continues during transit, with the result that they are only 
saleable to that class of people which prefers to have such 
articles heavily salted. 

Although packing is the usual method of employing the 
boron compounds, they are occasionally mixed with the brine, 
and injected into the flesh during the process of curing. A 
recipe, for instance, given some years ago in the ' Grocer ' 
consists of 5 Ibs. of the boron preservative, with 45 Ibs. of 
common salt, 4 Ibs. of sugar, and 3 of saltpetre, the whole 
being dissolved in 20 gallons of water. 1 Such a mixture would 
be forced into the flesh under a pressure of about 56 Ibs. to the 
square inch. 

Another mixture recommended is made by the addition to 
the brine of 10 to 20 per cent, of a preparation containing 92 
per cent, of boric acid. 2 

Even when the hams are merely packed in boric acid, a 
certain quantity is absorbed into the interior, though the main 
portion is removed by washing and brushing before the ham is 
cooked or smoked. 

Mr. J. M. Harris 3 cut portions of bacon which had thus 
been treated from the middle of each of three joints close to the 
bone. In the samples it was found that the quantity of boric 
acid varied from O'lO to 0'13 per cent. There was no difficulty 
in detecting the presence of the same substance in the fat and 
flesh near the surface. 

The same observer also sprinkled borax on a piece of fresh 
pork, and, after the lapse of a week, the quantity present in the 
centre was found to be 0*15 per cent. 

The importation of bacon has increased enormously during 
recent years. The value of the exports of ham and bacon from 
Canada has risen steadily from 280,227 dollars in 1889 to 
8,034,616 dollars in 1898. It is not surprising, therefore, that 
the percentage of samples which have been found to contain 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 2 Ibid. * Ibid. 



168 



PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 



boron compounds is large. 1 In the Government Laboratory, 
out of 130 samples, no less than 120, or 92-3 per cent., had been 
thus treated, corresponding figures found by Dr. Bernard Dyer 
and Dr. Hill being 41-2 and 77'8 respectively. 2 

The following are the quantities of boric acid estimated to 
be present by different observers, though the portions of the 
joints from which the samples were taken are not mentioned : 3 



Authority 


Quantity of boric acid 


Per cent. 


Grains per pound 


Dr. Bernard Dyer 
Government Laboratory . 
Dr. Hill .... 
Dr. Williams 
Dr. Tubb-Thomas . 
Mr. H. D. Richmond 


0-750 
0-661 
0-400 
0-340 
0-300 
0-130 


52-5 
46-3 
28-0 
23-8 
21-0 
9-1 



The amount found by Dr. Dyer is probably unnecessarily 
large, and suggests that the boric acid had been injected 
together with the brine, and this quantity is possibly capable 
of exerting some effect upon health, when the weight of ham 
and bacon consumed daily is taken into consideration, espe- 
cially as boric acid may also be introduced to an appreciable 
extent by other articles of food. 

When the bacon is packed in the preservative a quantity is 
used varying from one-quarter to 1 per cent, of the weight 
of the side, and the smaller proportion is apparently adequate. 
The pork remains in contact with the preservative for a few 
weeks, and, according to one authority, 4 80 per cent, of the 
latter is removed when the side is washed. 

The quantity of common salt in mild bacon varies with 
different brands, and in different parts of the same sample from 
under 1 to about 8 per cent. 

Mr. Harold Faber 5 estimated the amount of this substance 
present in samples from different sources, and found that the 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee. - Ibid. * Ibid. 

4 Mr. J. Wheeler Bennett, Report of Departmental Committee. 
s Report of Departmental Committee. 



MEAT, GAME, EGGS, AND FISH 169 

percentage in the fat varied from 0'23 to 0'85, in the outside 
portion of the flesh from 3'75 to 7*27, and in the flesh near the 
hone from 218 to 4-03. 

If saltpetre is used alone, the quantities would presumably 
be somewhat the same. 

Many persons connected with the export trade consider 
that this would be ruined if the use of boron compounds were 
prohibited, and there appears to be no reason why prohibition 
should be insisted on if preservatives are used in moderation. 
From the experimental evidence detailed in a former chapter 
saltpetre seems to be a less desirable antiseptic, bulk for bulk, 
than boric acid or borax, and if the sides of bacon are simply 
packed in the boron compounds, the amount which will be 
absorbed is so small as to be probably negligible. The 
considerations which applied in the case of milk and cream to 
children and invalids no longer hold good when applied to 
ham and bacon, which are foods used by the robust. 

On the other hand, there is some reason for believing that 
the use of a preservative other than salt is not absolutely 
essential even for the export trade, since one firm l which 
transmits a very large amount of Wiltshire bacon to India and 
the Colonies, is able to dispense with its use. They employ a 
little more salt, and extra drying, the sides are then sown up 
in canvas and packed in salt. No complaints as to taint or 
fly-blow are received. If the sides are packed in a green state 
these consequences are sure to happen. 

In any case the custom of injecting the boron preserva- 
tive is objectionable, \ since as these substances are foreign 
to the human body, they should only be introduced in the 
smallest quantities necessary for practical purposes. 

The only alternatives to the use of boron preservatives for 
imported hams would seem to be either to increase the amount 
of salt and dry the unsmoked article, or to adopt cold storage. 
An increase in the amount of salt or saltpetre is undesirable, 
whilst refrigeration has been unsuccessfully tried by one 

1 Mr. J. M. Harris, Eeport of Departmental Committee. 



170 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

firm, 1 and would, in any case, very likely raise the price of the 
food. 

Benzoic acid has been used in Queensland for curing hams, 
and possibly this may occur elsewhere ; as it is a more power- 
ful drug than boric acid there are greater objections to its use. 

Among the remaining meat foods for which preservatives, 
other than salt or saltpetre, are used, fresh meat, sausages, pork 
pies, and meat extracts may be mentioned. 

During the hot weather butchers sometimes sprinkle the 
carcasses or joints of fresh meat with boron compounds, or 
brush solutions of formic aldehyde or sulphites over the 
surface. Although cold storage is preferable, these processes 
are not likely to be attended with injurious effects on the 
consumer, unless they are done to mask incipient decomposi- 
tion. The use of sulphites has been prohibited in Christiania 
on the ground that, whilst harm may accrue to the purchaser 
from the presence of the antiseptic, the latter seems to have 
the property of disguising the early stages of decomposition. 
Reference was made to this matter when the sulphites were 
being considered. The boron compounds are probably the 
least objectionable for this purpose. 

Sausages in addition to salt and saltpetre very frequently 
contain boric acid or borax, and sometimes benzoic acid. 
The two former were detected in two out of three samples 
analyzed by Dr. Hill, and in half of those examined in the 
Government Laboratory. 2 

The quantity found by the different observers varied from 
1'14 to O45 per cent. (79 - 8 to 31*5 grains per pound). 3 As 
sausages are not often a regular article of diet, a quantity not 
exceeding one half per cent, is unlikely to cause much harm, 
but with nearly 80 grains per pound, the amount of boric acid 
consumed in a day in conjunction with that present in other 
food substances, such as butter and ham, might easily approach 
the dose necessary to produce unpleasant symptoms in a 
person liable to be affected by this drug. Moreover, pork 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. * Ibid. 3 Ibid. 



MEAT, GAME, EGGS, AND FISH 171 

should as far as possible be consumed in a fresh state, and 
storage for any length of time is undesirable. There is no 
animal whose flesh has more often given rise to localized 
epidemics of food poisoning than the pig. 

Pork pies have also been found to contain frequently boric 
acid, and similar considerations apply. 

Boric and benzoic acids have been detected in potted 
meats. These should be unnecessary if they are properly 
prepared and hermetically sealed. 

Boric and salicylic acids have been found in meat ex- 
tracts. As these are frequently used for invalids the presence 
of such antiseptics is objectionable, and there should be no 
necessity for their use. 

The sulphites are being largely used in the preparation of 
sausages, and articles of that class, and when present lead to the 
suspicion that tainted meat has been used in their preparation. 

Examples of smoking as a means of preservation are 
furnished by several hog products such as ham, bacon, and 
some kinds of sausages, and also by certain forms of tongue. 

Drying is chiefly of use as furnishing a ready means of 
preserving and carrying meat under exceptional circumstances, 
as in the case of ' biltong,' and there is little doubt that the 
meat loses a certain amount of its nutritive value during the 
process, its digestibility being impaired. 

Game and poultry are subjected to the same methods of 
preservation as are adopted for meat, but game is usually 
kept until incipient decomposition has set in. At this stage 
poultry would be declared unfit for human consumption, and 
it is questionable whether the use of ' game ' in this condition 
is not often responsible for the production of nausea and 
diarrhoea, or of disturbances of the digestive functions. As, 
however, the purchaser and user know the condition of 
the flesh, they may be left to take the attendant risks. 

Eggs are preserved by immersion in various solutions, 
lime, salt, water-glass, sulphites and salicylic acid. These 
substances do not penetrate the shell, hence they are in them- 



172 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

selves unobjectionable, and so long as the shell contents are 
sweet the eggs are usable. Occasionally they are preserved 
by the rubbing of some kind of fat into the shells whilst warm 
and immediately after being laid, to exclude and prevent the 
action of air. 

Fish is more liable than meat to undergo decomposition, 
and the products may produce most serious effects. This is 
notably the case with regard to shell-fish and mackerel. Con- 
sequently, if efficient methods of preservation are not adopted, 
such fish quickly become unfit for consumption. 

The methods in use for preservation are practically the 
same as those employed for meat. 

With regard to refrigeration a word of caution is necessary. 
Where the fish is kept in a cold chamber the changes referred 
to are not likely to occur, but the common practice of storing 
it directly in contact with ice may introduce the very micro- 
organisms necessary to produce decomposition, unless the ice 
comes from a pure source and is kept free from contamination. 
As soon as the ice melts the fish is bathed in a watery solution, 
which may contain filth pregnant with putrefactive bacteria-, 
whose action is favoured by the moisture. 

When means of refrigeration are next available antiseptics are 
sometimes employed for fresh fish during hot weather, the sub- 
stances used being chiefly boron compounds or formic aldehyde. 

Boric acid has been found in herrings, caviare, and potted 
fish, and sulphites in anchovy paste, whilst salt, saltpetre, and 
vinegar are commonly employed in pickling fish. The amount 
of these antiseptics which would be consumed is practically 
inappreciable so long as they are added in moderate propor- 
tions. As much, however, as 95 grains per pound of boric 
acid has been detected in a sample of potted shrimps. 

In this connection it may be mentioned that apparently 
pyroligneous acid is sometimes ased for curing herrings instead 
of smoking. Whether this is a desirable procedure or not 
admits of a difference of opinion ; possibly the acid is as 
harmless as the empyreumatic products in the smoke. 



PART III 

CHAPTER XV 

COLOUKING MATTEES USED IN FOOD AND DRINK 

THE employment of pigments for the purpose of colouring 
articles of food dates back at least fifty years, and was the 
subject of many investigations by the proprietors of the 
' Lancet ' in 1851 and subsequent years. Cayenne pepper 
was found to contain sulphide of mercury, red lead, and various 
oxides of iron, no less than twenty-two out of twenty-eight 
samples containing mineral colouring matters; twenty-seven 
out of thirty- three samples of preserved bottled fruits and 
vegetables were coloured with copper; red lead was found in 
anchovies ; whilst various specimens of confectionery were 
shown to contain chromate of lead, gamboge, red lead, sulphide 
of mercury, umber and sienna, Prussian blue, carbonate of 
copper, and arsenite of copper ; and white lead was detected in 
ornaments used for adorning cakes. Of the vegetable matters 
turmeric was used for colouring milk even in 1851. 

With the advent of the aniline dyes mineral pigments 
have almost entirely ceased to be employed, with the exception 
of copper sulphate and oxides of iron, the former being 
practically the sole substance used for preserving the colour 
of green vegetables, none of the more recently discovered dyes 
being capable of producing the desired effect. Annatto, and 
turmeric also, are to some extent being similarly replaced. 

The colouring matters principally employed may be classi- 
fied according to their nature into animal, vegetable, and 
mineral, the chief representative of the first group being 
cochineal, which is used in jams, jellies, syrups, cordials, and 
certain preserved fruits such as cherries. 



174 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



The extent to which artificial colouring matters are to be 
found in articles of food is indicated by the following table, 
which is taken from the Report of the Departmental Com- 
mittee : 

SUMMARY OP SAMPLES OP FOOD (BOTH HOME AND IMPORTED PBODUCE) AND THE 
COLOURING MATTERS FOUND THEREIN (EXAMINED IN THE GOVERNMENT LABORATORY) 









Colouring matters 


q "<> 




No. 


Description 


Total 
samples 


o3 rt *2 fe 
aj| 


Per- 
centage 
co cured 


Coal-tar 


1 Vege- 
table 


Animal 


Mineral 


1 


Milk .... 


296 





3 








3 


1-0 


2 


Cream 


290 


9 


1 








10 


3-4 


3 


Butter 


364 


40 


87 








127 


349 


4 


Margarine . 


133 


100 


15 





109' 


81-9 


5 


Cheese 


196 


5 


107 


' 


111 2 


56-6 


6 


Condensed milk . 


86 

















7 


Bacon. 


210 








: 








8 


Ham .... 


185 








' 








9 


Sausages . 


226 


72 


1 


1 


74 


32-7 


10 


Potted meats 


165 


27 


2 


3 


32 


19-4 


11 


Preserved meats 


135 








1 


1 


0-7 


12 


Brawn 


56 


6 








6 


10-7 


13 


Fresh fish . 


43 








. 


! 


14 


Preserved fish . 


44 








1 


1 2-3 


15 


Meat jellies 


25 


3 





1 


4 1 16-0 


]6 


Fruit jellies 


28 


9 





4 13 46-4 


17 


Pork pies . 


48 











18 


Lard .... 


52 





. 








19 


Jam .... 


150 10 





' 


10 6-7 


20 


Preserved fruits . 


48 4 





2 


6 12-5 


21 


Fruit pulp . 


10 











i 


22 


Preserved vegetables . 


49 





17 


17 ! 34-7 


23 


Lime and lemon juice 


78 1 








1 1-3 


24 


Cordials 


24 12 





2 


14 58-3 


25 


Fruit syrups 


23 12 





1 





13 56-5 


26 


Temperance drinks 


769 56 





1 


57 7-4 


27 


Imported beers . 


100 





; 





28 


Wines and beers 


32 





! 








29 


Vinegar 


77 

















. 


30 


Meat extracts 


50 














31 


Sauces and ketchups . 


10 


5 


3 








8 80-0 


32 


Soups .... 


49 ! 1 











1 2-0 


33 


Sugars 


149 24 











24 16-1 


34 


Spices 


22 





2 





2 


4 18-2 


35 


Miscellaneous 3 . 


29 


2 





' 





2 


6-9 




Totals 


4,251 


398 


221 


11 25 


648 


15-2 



The principal vegetable dyes are annatto, turmeric, camwood, 
logwood. To these may be added gamboge, saffron, and 

1 Six of these contained both vegetable and coal-tar yellows. 

2 One of these contained both vegetable and coal-tar yellows. 

3 Invalid foods, &c. 



COLOUEING MATTEES IN FOOD AND DEINK 175 

carrot juice, which are used by some dairy farmers, and 
burnt sugar or caramel, which is occasionally employed for 
darkening brandy. 

Annatto is still the principal substance used by dairy 
farmers, though it is to some extent being replaced by aniline 
dyes such as methyl-orange. It is sold to the trade under 
various names, such as ' cowslip colour,' ' butter colour,' and 
' oleo-butter colour ' ; occasionally it is mixed with a coal-tar 
yellow, such as tropaeolin. It is used also for margarine to 
counterfeit butter. Annatto is an extract from the pulp of 
Bixa Orellana. This is usually sold either as an aqueous 
extract, or dissolved in cotton-seed oil. Of the commercial 
preparations the quantity recommended varies from a tea- 
spoonful in 16 to 1 in 60 gallons of milk, a proportion of 
about 1 in 20,000 to 1 in 80,000 respectively. According to 
Mr. Droop Eichmond, the chemist of the Aylesbury Dairy 
Company, the usual quantity is about 1 part in 30,000, which is 
equivalent to 1 part in 1,500,000 of actual colouring matter 
(bixin). 1 For butter about one teaspoonful is added to 3 
or 4 gallons of cream, and for cheese an ounce to about 
30 Ibs. The necessity for the addition of pigments to dairy 
products, if such exists, occurs chiefly during the winter, 
when the natural colour is usually paler than in the summer. 
According to the evidence of Mr. James Long, a member of 
the Central Chamber of Agriculture, a rich colour can be 
maintained throughout the year by the addition of a Jersey or 
Guernsey cow to every ten or twelve cows, and by a due 
selection of animals of the shorthorn breed. 2 Mr. T. Carrington 
Smith, Chairman of the Dairy Products Committee of the 
Central Chamber of Agriculture, was also of opinion that the 
colour of even winter butter could be maintained by natural 
means. 3 

As regards the physiological action of annatto, nothing 
appears to be known. Probably it is perfectly harmless, at 
all events in the quantities in which it is employed. 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee. - Ibid. 3 Ibid. 



176 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Turmeric is occasionally introduced into piccalilli, and some 
samples of mustard have been found to consist of a mixture of 
mustard and starch with the addition of this colouring matter. 
There is no reason to suppose that in the quantities employed 
any injury to health will result. 

Of the other vegetable dyes, logwood is well known in 
medicine as an astringent in virtue of the tannic acid it con- 
tains ; the dose of the decoction (1 part in 20) is from 1 to 
2 fluid ounces. Gamboge, on the other hand, is a powerful 
purgative, the pharmacopoeial dose being from \ to 2 grains. 
Both of these are therefore objectionable as colouring matters. 
The latter is now rarely if ever met with, its use having been 
supplanted by the relatively cheaper and less harmful aniline 
dyes. The former is said to be found in cheap wines, but 
there appears to be no foundation for the statement, as we can 
find no record of logwood having been detected of recent years. 

The mineral dyes or stains at present used are all metallic 
compounds. Reference has already been made to a number 
of poisonous metallic salts, which were formerly largely used 
in colouring confectionery, but as they are now rarely if ever 
employed they call for no further comment. The two chief 
metals in present use are copper in the form of the sulphate 
for green vegetables and fruit, and oxide of iron for sausages, 
cocoa, confectionery, anchovies, bloater paste, sauces and con- 
diments, and other foods of a dark red tint. One of the 
commonest forms in which an iron compound is used is known 
as ' Armenian bole,' which is an oxide mixed with a silicious 
earth. Although but little exception can be taken on purely 
medical grounds to the employment of such a compound, its 
addition is not infrequently made use of to disguise adulteration. 
Thus, Dr. Dupre, in analyzing a sample of cocoa, found it to 
contain only 30 per cent, of cocoa, the remainder being chiefly 
starch and sugar coloured with iron. 1 

Copper Salts. Copper, being by no means an inert sub- 
stance, may be expected to exert some deleterious effect on 

1 Report of Departmental Committee. 



COLOUEING MATTERS IN FOOD AND DRINK 177 

the consumer, and many prosecutions under the Sale of Food 
and Drugs Acts have been taken, with varying success, in 
different parts of the country, on account of the use of copper 
salts in colouring vegetables. The only evidence which has 
so far been adduced is of a theoretical nature, and unless 
special feeding experiments are instituted the effects of copper 
are likely to remain in doubt, since, even if a dish of vegetables 
coloured by this means is suspected of having caused dyspepsia 
or other symptoms after a mixed meal, it is obviously difficult, 
if not impossible, to fix the responsibility on this particular 
constituent. 

Copper sulphate, which crystallizes with 5 molecules of 
water, is employed both externally and internally in medicine. 
It is a powerful astringent, the pharmaceutical dose being 
to 2 grains. In larger doses of from 5 to 10 grains it acts as 
an emetic, and if this effect fails, inflammation of the gastric 
mucous membrane is liable to occur. Lauder Brunton says : 
' Small doses absorbed into the blood appear to have a tonic 
action on some parts of the nervous system, and exert an 
astringent action on mucous membranes.' It is ' excreted by 
the mucous membrane of the intestine, by the bile sweat, and 
kidneys.' So far as is known it is not cumulative i.e. it does 
not tend, like lead, to accumulate in the system. In a weak 
solution it inhibits the digestive ferments when the observations 
are made in vitro. The proportions of copper sulphate capable 
of arresting the action of the enzymes is as follows : ptyalin, 
1 part in 7,500 ; pepsin, 1 part in 110 ; pancreatin, 1 part in 
GjGOO. 1 Even in minute quantities copper salts are fatal to 
certain fresh-water algae, and even to pathogenic bacteria such 
as the Bacillus typhosus. Many of the public water supplies 
in the United States are subject to the growth of algae and 
protozoa, such as anaboena and uroglena, rendering the water 
unfit for consumption at certain seasons. Dr. George Moore, 
of the scientific staff of the United States Government, made 
experiments with a number of germicides, and found that 

1 Keport of Departmental Committee, p. 393. Appendix XVI. 

12 



178 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

sulphate of copper in dilutions of 1 in 10,000,000 to 1 in 
50,000,000 was sufficient to kill the algae. He further tried 
the effect of the salt on a large scale in the case of the reservoir 
of a town in Kentucky which was quite overgrown with 
anaboena. The reservoir had a capacity of 25,000,000 gallons, 
and it was found that a proportion of copper sulphate equivalent 
to 1 part in 4,000,000 destroyed the growth in twenty-four 
hours. In a similar instance, the water of a reservoir was 
purified in five days by 1 part of copper sulphate in 8,500,000. 
Experimenting with typhoid and cholera bacilli, Dr. Moore 
found that these were killed in four or five hours by 1 part of 
copper sulphate in 100,000, and that on a large scale this 
proportion was sufficient to sterilize a water supply. Copper 
sulphate added to water in this manner seems to disappear on 
standing ; apparently it is precipitated as a hydrate or car- 
bonate, or as an organic compound which settles on sedi- 
mentation. The salt appears to have more effect on plant 
than on animal life, since goldfish and minnows are unaffected 
by a strength of 1 in 200,000^ Eideal and Baines have 
repeated Dr. Moore's experiments with different results. Copper 
sulphate was found to destroy the typhoid bacillus in three 
hours at a strength of 1 in 10,000, and bacillus coli at a strength 
of 1 in 1,000. One part of copper chloride in 10,000 destroyed 
both bacilli in three hours, but weaker solutions were in- 
effective. 2 Even when simply allowed to stand for twenty-four 
hours in a clean copper vessel, water infected with the typhoid 
bacillus is apparently freed from this organism. Fleet-Surgeon 
P. W. Bassett-Smith 3 has confirmed the germicidal action of 
copper salts, and bright metallic copper on a number of micro- 
organisms, and has found in addition that iron and zinc exert 
a similar effect. 

Sulphate of copper has been used in America in over fifty 
cases for the destruction of algae in water reservoirs, and the 

1 Journal of State Medicine, vol. xiii. pp. 108, 364. 

2 A paper read at the Congress of the Sanitary Institute, Glasgow, 1904. 

3 Journal of State Medicine, vol. xiii. p. 388. 



COLOUEING MATTERS IN FOOD AND DRINK 179 

consumption of the water afterwards has not been found to pro- 
duce any ill effects. The quantity of copper used is exceedingly 
small, and little, if any, remains in the water after the deposition 
of the algae. In any case, the quantity cannot be compared 
with the amount contained in peas and other vegetables greened 
with copper, yet as water is used in large quantities and every 
day, the question as to whether traces of copper contained therein 
are likely to endanger health is an important one. Moore and 
Kellerman, Government Physiologists, in their report to the 
W. S. Department of Agriculture l state as the result of their 
inquiries that, ' There is no authentic record of fatal copper 
poisoning, and many of the best authorities do not consider 
copper a true poison ; they hold that it is a natural constituent 
of the body, and in minute quantities has no effect upon man.' 
Copper is undoubtedly very widely distributed in nature, and 
traces are found in many plants and animals. Dupre and 
others have found it in the liver and kidneys of man and 
domesticated animals, the amount sometimes exceeding 1 part 
in 20,000. It occurs in wheat, barley, linseed, peas, mustard, 
cocoa etc. It appears to be an invariable constituent of oysters. 
The amount present in these substances varies, and somewhat 
different results are obtained, in estimating such minute 
quantities as occur in these natural products, according to the 
process adopted. The following Table is from an article by 
Paul and Townley 2 on the ' Detection of Copper in Vegetable 
Substance.' 

Paul and Townley's estimation : 

Parts of metallic copper in 10,000 
of the substance 

Maximum Minimum 

Oysters 3'03 T81 

Cocoa, pure '47 
Cocoa containing sugar and starch '58 '29 

Brandy '01 '05 

Whisky -04 
Preserved Peas '54 1-40 

1 Bureau of Plant Industry. Bulletin No. 76. 

2 Phann. Jour. June 6, 1896. 



180 PKESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Vedrodi's estimation : 

Parts of metallic copper in 10,000 
of the substance 

Maximum Minimum 

Winter Wheat 8.6 2-5 

Summer Wheat 3'0 2'5 

Barley 0'9 O'l 

Linseed 1-9 1-4 

Peas 1-5 0-9 

Mustard Seed I'O 0'9 

Vedrodi's method of estimation probably gives higher results 
than is obtained by more modern processes, otherwise many 
vegetable substances contain more copper than do others to 
which a salt of copper has been added for improving or 
preserving the colour. The largest amount found in the 
samples of preserved peas by Paul and Townley does not equal 
the maximum recorded by Vedrodi, whose results were obtained 
with unpreserved peas. 

When a soluble salt of copper is added to green vegetables 
such as peas, a portion enters into combination with the 
chlorophyll forming a body which has been called copper 
phyllocyanate, and any excess combines with the proteid 
matter forming what has been termed copper leguminate. 
The former compound has in solution a characteristic spectrum ; 
it is easily soluble in alcohol and chloroform but not in water. 
It is this compound which gives the characteristic green colour 
to preserved vegetables. The leguminate not having nearly 
the same depth of tint, its copper compound is useless for 
' greening ' purposes ; hence if more copper salt is added than 
is necessary to combine with the chlorophyll, the vegetable 
contains an unnecessary amount and is to this extent objection- 
able. After extracting the chlorophyll compound with alcohol 
the compound with legumin can be dissolved in water rendered 
slightly alkaline by the addition of caustic soda l ; hence by 
estimating the copper in the two solutions an approximate 

1 Das Kupfer. Dr. A. Tschircli, p. 33. 



COLOUEING MATTEES IN FOOD AND DEINK 181 

idea can be obtained of the relative proportion of the two 
copper compounds, and if any appreciable proportion is found 
in the alkaline solution it is probable that more copper has 
been used than was necessary for the preserving process. 

Lehmann, 1 who has devoted much attention to the action 
of copper salts, says : ' Of demonstrable severe acute poisoning 
cases by copper produced by its admixture with food, not a 
single one has come to my knowledge. The reports in literature 
refer either to poisonings by ptomaines or to quite different 
poisons. . . . The danger of chronic poisoning by preserved 
vegetables . . . has, according to what has been said, probably 
never existed.' He quotes experiments made by Bourneville, 
Touissant and others showing that the system rapidly becomes 
habituated to salts of copper. For example, Kant 'took for 
fifty-one days copper acetate, beginning with 5 mlgr. and then 
increasing to 10, 15, 20, 25, and for the last sixteen days 
30 mlgr. The last dose is almost equivalent to O'l gram 
copper sulphate. He experienced no trace of indisposition.' 
Tschirch, 2 whose monograph on ' Copper,' published at Stuttgart 
in 1893, treats of the presence of the metal in animal and 
vegetable foods in an exhaustive manner, considers it proved 
that the small quantity of copper found naturally in foods or 
introduced carefully into the same for colour preserving is 
perfectly harmless, the metal being excreted by the liver and 
kidneys so rapidly that no accumulation occurs. He admits 
that larger quantities produce ill effects. His experiments 
with men and animals lead him to the conclusion that the 
largest amount which could be taken daily without danger was 
0-1 gram of copper for a man weighing 60 kilogrammes. The 
degree of solubility of the copper salt taken is, he asserts, 
without influence, the quantity and not the solubility of the 
copper compound being alone of importance. Where the above 
quantity is exceeded, symptoms of poisoning may appear, but 

1 Methods of Practical Hygiene. Translated by Sir W. Crookes, vol. ii. 
pp. 377-8, 

2 Das Kupfer, p. 114. 



182 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

very quickly disappear, the system returning to its normal 
condition. In round figures Tschirch gives - 05 gram copper 
oxide per kilogram of preserved vegetables as being absolutely 
harmless even if a kilo (2 Ib.) be consumed daily. Lehmann, 1 
in a more recent study, has found copper in a greater number 
of unsophisticated articles of diet than has been hitherto 
supposed, and computes that under ordinary circumstances 
each individual takes with his daily food O02 gram of copper. 
He thinks that harm may ensue if by the use of preserved 
vegetables the amount consumed daily reaches 0'120 gram. 
Tschirch's opinion corroborates this. He thinks that so long 
as the total quantitj^ of copper ingested does not exceed O'l 
gram per kilogramme of the food there can be no question 
of any injury to health by any preserved vegetable of which 
not more than \ a kilo is consumed by a person per day. ' To 
prohibit absolutely copper in food or drink,' he adds, ' is 
equivalent to prohibiting plants to absorb it from the soil, and 
to include bread, oysters and many other such articles of food 
in the category of articles " injurious to health." ' 1 

The quantity of sulphate of copper which has been found in 
preserved vegetables varies considerably. The usual amount 
appears to be from 2 to 3 grains per pound (expressed as the crys- 
tallized salt), but as little as a grain and as much as 26 
grains per pound have been recorded. 2 There is no doubt that 
bottled peas soon lose their green colour if preserved without 
copper, becoming brownish, although retaining their flavour. 
The copper also appears to harden the testa or outer covering 
of the pea, rendering it less liable to disintegrate. Peas pre- 
served without copper render the liquid in which they are kept 
turbid when shaken, and this has led to such peas being seized 
and condemned as unwholesome, although the prosecution 
failed when the case was tried. No substitute has yet been 
found for colouring vegetables, and, according to some experi- 
ments made by Professor Tunnicliffe, 2 grains per pound is 

1 Arch. Hygiene, xxiv. quoted in Year Book of Pharmacy, 1897, p. 204. 

2 Report of Departmental Committee. 



COLOUEING MATTERS IN FOOD AND DRINK 183 

approximately the smallest quantity of copper sulphate which 
is efficient in maintaining a dark-green colour, peas containing 
half this amount being of a yellowish tinge at the end of six 
months. The actual amount of the salt which must be added 
to the peas in the process of preservation is considerably in 
excess of that which is permanently retained by them. Thus, 
in one of his experiments, 8 grammes of copper sulphate were 
used by Dr. Tunnicliffe for 15'9 kilos of peas, which were found 
after the process to contain 74 mlgm. of copper (about 296 mlgm. 
of copper sulphate) per kilo after ten minutes' boiling, but the 
quantity taken up by the peas appears to be proportional to 
the strength of the sulphate in solution, when the time of 
boiling remains constant. 1 

When peas are boiled with copper sulphate there is ap- 
parently a definite combination between the metal and certain 
constituents of the pea, legumin and chlorophyll, and the whole 
of the pea is impregnated. The metal is not removed by plain 
water, acids, or alkalis, and the colour is not due to the natural 
tint of the copper salt. There is some conflicting evidence as 
to the extent to which the copper is capable of being removed 
by the digestive ferments. Mr. W. Collingwood Williams 
found that about 40 per cent, of the whole copper was dissolved 
out after peas had been subjected to the action of either pepsin 
and hydrochloric acid, or of pancreatic extract, for three hours 
in an incubator. Dr. J. Spottiswoode Cameron, on the other 
hand, was able to recover practically the whole of the copper 
from a sample of peas by the action both of pepsin and hydro- 
chloric acid, and of an alkaline pancreatic solution, the digestion 
being allowed to proceed at body temperature for twenty-four 
hours. 2 In the present state of knowledge concerning the 
action of small doses of copper on the human subject, the 
desirability of the addition of this substance to vegetables 
must be largely a matter of personal opinion. On the one 
hand it is certain that copper is a poisonous substance even in 
moderate quantities, and it is highly probable that some, if not 

' Ibid., Appendix V. 2 Report of Departmental Committee. 



184 

all of it, in preserved vegetables is in a form which is soluble in 
the digestive juices. On the other hand it is certain that, if 
the copper is omitted, the vegetables will lose their colour, and 
it is generally held that the appetizing appearance of food has 
considerable influence on the digestive processes. Three out of 
four of the members of the Departmental Committee agreed 
in condemning the use of salts of copper, whilst Professor 
Tunnicliffe considered that the public would be sufficiently 
protected if the colouring matter were declared, and if the 
quantity were limited to half a grain of metallic copper per 
pound (-07 parts per 1,000). 

Copper is prohibited in Germany, Austria, and Hungary, 
whilst in certain parts of Switzerland and Italy 1 part in 10,000 
of metallic copper is permitted. In the United States it is not 
forbidden, provided that the addition is notified and the 
amount stated. In France there was formerly an order 
prohibiting the use of copper, but this has subsequently 
been rescinded after a number of scientific inquiries on the 
subject. 1 

Tin Salts. Chloride of tin has been extensively used to colour 
and give a bloom to beet-sugar, causing it to resemble Demerara 
sugar, but it is probable that this custom has now ceased. 2 Save 
that it enhances the value of the sugar by improving its 
appearance, and thus permits of a fraudulent substitution, the 
addition is harmless. 

Coal-tar Dyes. The last, and probably the largest, class of 
dyes is that which comprises the coal-tar colours. They are 
practically unlimited in variety, and are used for confectionery, 
jellies, jams, meat especially sausages dairy products, tem- 
perance beverages, and wines. Apart from their function of 
producing a pleasing appearance, they are undoubtedly used 
fraudulently, as in margarine to make it resemble butter, in 
beet-sugar crystals to resemble Demerara sugar, and in adul- 
terated mustard to counterfeit pure mustard ; whilst over hams 
and tongues a compound that may consist of borax, salt, 

1 Eeport of Departmental Committee, Appendix I. 2 Ibid., Appendix XVII. 



creosote, and a red coal-tar dye, is sometimes brushed to make 
the meat appear well smoked. 1 

The quantity of dye used is generally very small, rarely 
exceeding 1 part in 1,000, and being often less than 1 part in 
100,000. The pigments are usually of the ' azo ' class, and 
generally sulphonated when required in a soluble form. In 
dairy products, for instance, the two commonest coal-tar dyes 
are dimethyl- amido-azo-benzene (butter-yellow) and certain 
tropaeolins, which are sulphonated azo compounds. 

The trade names are sometimes misleading ; for instance, 
a dye used in confectionery and called ' vermilion ' is a pure 
aniline colour. Many of the stains used in pathological, bacterio- 
logical, and chemical laboratories, such as eosin, Bismarck 
brown, picric acid, fuchsin, methylene blue, Hoffmann's violet, 
methyl orange, and Congo red are also employed for colouring 
articles of food and drink. 

Owing to the very small quantities of these dyes which are 
necessary to produce the desired effect it is almost impossible 
to form an opinion as to whether or not they are likely to be 
prejudicial to health. Many of the coal-tar products which 
are used in medicine are liable to produce toxic effects, and, 
on account of idiosyncrasy, even in ordinary doses. Sulphate 
of anilin has been used medicinally in \ to 3 grain doses, but 
has produced cyanosis. A case is recorded of a woman who 
drank 3 ounces of marking ink, chiefly consisting of aniline 
dye, with fatal results ; two 4-grain doses of acetanilide 
(phenylacetamide) have been known to cause very serious 
symptoms ; a 10-grain dose of phenazone (antipyrin, phenyl- 
dimethyl-iso-pyrazolene) has caused toxic symptoms and a 
rash ; many cases of poisoning by sulphonal (a dimethyl- 
methane-diethylsulphone) have been recorded ; 15 drops of 
nitrobenzole may prove fatal. All these substances appear to 
have similar toxic effects, the chief clinical symptoms being 
cyanosis and faintness, while the blood gives the spectrum of 
methsemoglobin, and the urine may contain haematoporphyrin. 
1 Dr. Hope, Report of Departmental Committee. 



186 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

Mr. Cochrane, of the Pennsylvania Station, found that 24 
to 32 drops of aniline yellow and methyl orange produced 
headache, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, and nervous de- 
pression. 1 

Weyl found that the following aniline dyes were poisonous : 
picric acid, dinitrokresol, Martius' yellow, Bismarck brown, 
Orange II., and mustard yellow ; and there is a case on record 
in French literature of a person who took 3 grammes of 
dinitrokresol with fatal results. 2 

Apart from such instances of what may be termed gross 
poisoning, nothing is known as to the effects of small doses of 
the coal-tar products on the human system. 

In Austria-Hungary a decree of 1866 forbids in food the 
use of any colouring matter which contains metals (iron 
excepted), gamboge, picric acid, or aniline. But in 1895 a 
large number of aniline dye-stuffs which do not contain arsenic 
were permitted to be used for sweetmeats, liquors, &c., speci- 
mens of such colours to be submitted yearly to official exami- 
nation. Ultramarine was only permitted when free from 
arsenic, and in such small quantities that in a 10 per cent, 
solution of water its presence is not distinguishable. 

All harmless vegetable colouring matters are allowed, and 
saffron, chlorophyll, and cochineal are largely employed. 

In France, a decree of December 29, 1890, sets out a 
list of colours which are prohibited, and also a list of certain 
coal-tar derivatives which are permissible in sweetmeats, 
lozenges, ices, and liquors. No colouring matter is allowed in 
wines or margarine. 

In Germany the following pigments are prohibited for 
colouring foods : those containing antimony, arsenic, barytes, 
lead, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, uranium, zinc, 
tin, gamboge, coralline, arid picric acid. 

In Italy the colouring of margarine is prohibited, and 
certain scheduled noxious colours are forbidden. 

1 Mr. James Long, Eeport of Departmental Committee. 

- Professor A. Wynter Blyth, Eeport of Departmental Committee. 



COLOUEING MATTEES IN FOOD AND DEINK 187 

In the United States no colouring matter is to be used, 
unless each package bears testimony as to the name and 
amount. 1 

The only instance of illness due to the action of colouring 
matter, which has come under our observation, was that of a 
child who had eaten a considerable quantity of red cachous. 
The urine became of an intense red colour, and the boy feeling 
sick, the mother promptly sent for a medical man. In this 
case, no doubt, the child had consumed an excessive quantity 
of the sweets in question, and it is not improbable that the 
sugar and flavouring matter rather than the colouring material 
upset his digestive system, the colouring matter in the urine 
merely causing alarm. The production of these highly 
flavoured and coloured sweetmeats at a very low cost is not an 
unmixed blessing, and it is conceivable that they may be pro- 
ductive of harm, especially if used by children and in excessive 
quantities. 

In the present state of knowledge the case for and against 
colouring matters can hardly be better summed up than in the 
words of the Departmental Committee : 

' 126. In regard to the colouring matters of modern origin, 
while we are of opinion that articles of food are very much 
preferable in their natural colours, we are unable to deduce 
from the evidence received that any injurious results have 
been traced to their consumption. Undoubtedly some of the 
substances used to colour confectionery and sweetmeats are 
highly poisonous in themselves, but they are used in in- 
finitesimal proportions, and before any individual has taken 
enough of colouring matter to injure him, his digestion would 
probably have been seriously disturbed by the substance which 
they were employed to adorn. 

' 127. The employment of copper sulphate to colour peas 

and other vegetables has been carefully considered by us. It 

is highly undesirable that what is admittedly a poisonous 

substance should be used, even to the smallest extent, in 

1 Report of the Departmental Committee, Appendix I. 



188 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

connection with such food as may be consumed in consider- 
able quantity. The public have got into their heads that 
vegetables ought to be green, and green they insist upon 
having them. Direct proof that vegetables containing copper 
are injurious to the consumer is from the very nature of the 
case difficult to obtain, and we must admit that we have not 
succeeded in obtaining it. There is evidence pointing to the 
conclusion that the copper, when added to the vegetables, 
forms a compound which is not easily soluble in the human 
economy. There is, however, evidence of a contrary character, 
and it is not clear to us that the copper added becomes, or 
remains, insoluble under all conditions. Be this as it may, 
recent events l have so incontestably demonstrated the serious 
and widespread mischief which may result from the consump- 
tion of food and drink, other than sweetmeats, containing 
even minimal quantities of poisonous metallic substances, that 
we are strongly of opinion that such poisonous substances 
should be rigorously excluded. 

' 128. There is such a wide choice of colouring matters 
suitable for the dairy trade, that no inconvenience would arise 
from restricting it to the use of innocuous substances, as these 
may be defined and permitted in the manner hereafter sug- 
gested. But the same reason which we have given for the 
prohibition of preservatives in milk offered for sale, namely, 
the large quantity thereof which may be consumed by an 
individual, appears to render it highly undesirable that any 
colouring matter should be permitted in milk. There is this 
further consideration, that milk is sold as an absolutely raw, 
unmanufactured article, of which the purchaser is entitled to 
be aware of the natural colour, and to draw his own conclu- 
sions therefrom as to quality. 

'129. In the butter trade and still more in the cheese trade 
artificial colouring has long been established. Highly coloured 
goods find favour in some markets, uncoloured or faintly 
coloured goods in others. We have not found that in the 

1 I.e. the epidemic caused by arsenic in beer. 



COLOUEING MATTEES IN FOOD AND DEINK 189 

interest of the consumer any interference is necessary with the 
customs of the trade in this respect. 

' 130. In regard to margarine, we have to deal with a 
cheaper and relatively inferior article, invariably coloured to 
resemble a more costly and superior article, and probably the 
only means of protecting the public from imposition would be 
to prohibit the introduction of any colouring matter into mar- 
garine which shall cause it to resemble butter. Be the regula- 
tions as to the sale of margarine under declaration what they 
may, they cannot protect the customer who calls for bread and 
butter at an hotel or restaurant from being served with bread 
and margarine, and paying for it at the rate charged for the 
superior article. But as the margarine may be assumed to be 
a perfectly wholesome article of diet, it does not fall within the 
terms of our reference to make any recommendation upon a 
practice which is not attended with risk to the public health.' 

It will be noticed that the Committee referred to the 
opportunities which the use of colouring matters afford for 
substituting inferior for genuine articles in the case of margarine, 
and, as we have indicated, other instances have been brought to 
the knowledge of public officials : for example, cocoa, mustard, 
and smoked hams. 

The recommendations referring to colouring matters made 
by the Departmental Committee were as follows : 

' B. That the use of any preservative or colouring matter 
whatever in milk offered for sale in the United Kingdom be 
constituted an offence under the Sale of Food and Drugs 
Acts.' 

' F. That the use of copper salts in the so-called greening of 
preserved foods be prohibited. 

' G. That means be provided, either by the establishment 
of a separate Court of Reference, or by the imposition of more 
direct obligation on the Local Government Board, to exercise 
supervision over the use of preservatives and colouring matters 
in foods, and to prepare schedules of such as may be considered 
inimical to the public health.' 



190 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Of the four members of the Committee responsible for the 
report, Professor Tunnicliffe alone took exception to paragraph 
127 and recommendation F, referring to the use of copper in 
preserved vegetables, and in a short minority report he said 
that he could conceive of no conditions under which the small 
quantity of copper present in properly preserved peas could be 
injurious to any consumer to whom the peas themselves would 
be harmless. As, however, unnecessarily large amounts of 
copper are often present in vegetables permanently coloured 
by it, he recommended that the presence of copper should in 
every case be declared, and that its amount should be restricted 
to half a grain of metallic copper per pound. 



CHAPTEE XVI 

MINERAL POISONS WHICH MAY OCCUR IN FOOD AND DRINK 

Arsenic. Arsenical compounds are very widely diffused in 
nature, and it has long been known that infinitesimal traces 
can be discovered in many materials used as food, or in the 
preparation of articles of food, but it was not until the great 
outbreak of arsenical poisoning, which occurred among beer 
drinkers in 1900, that serious attention was given to the 
subject. In November of that year Dr. E. S. Keynolds, of 
Manchester, came to the conclusion that the cases of peripheral 
neuritis under treatment at the Infirmary were due to arsenical 
poisoning ; as all the patients were beer drinkers he suspected 
the beer, and upon examining samples he discovered the 
presence of dangerous proportions of arsenic in many. A 
Royal Commission was appointed in February 1901 to ascertain 
what amount of recent exceptional sickness and death was 
attributable to arsenic, and whether such exceptional sickness 
had been due to arsenic in beer or to other food substances. 
This Commission, after collecting a large mass of evidence, 
published its final report in 1903, and to this report we are 
indebted for much of the information contained in this section. 
The Commission found that many thousands of persons had 
been affected, principally in Lancashire and Staffordshire, but 
Manchester and the neighbourhood suffered most severely, it 
being estimated that in Manchester and Salford alone at least 
3,000 persons suffered from arsenical poisoning, and that all 
the persons affected were addicted to the use of beer. The 
epidemic was traced to the consumption of beer from certain 
breweries using glucose made by a single firm. Samples of 



192 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

this glucose yielded arsenic varying from 0*015 to 0'131 per 
cent., equivalent to 1*05 and 9'17 grains of arsenious oxide per 
pound. This arsenic was further traced to the sulphuric acid 
used in the manufacture of the sugar, some samples containing 
as much as 2-5 per cent, of arsenious acid. The amount of 
poison present in beers brewed with this sugar differed widely. 
' Not only did the proportion of these sugars used in different 
beers vary greatly, but there is further material difference due 
to the stage at which the sugar was introduced into the beer.' 
The evidence goes to show that, in the process of brewing, a 
portion of the arsenic contained in arsenical brewing sugar 
added before fermentation will be removed by the action of 
yeast, and possibly also in other ways ; whereas, if arsenical 
sugars are used as ' priming ' after the beer has left the 
fermenting vessels, the whole of the arsenic present in the 
' priming ' solution will apparently remain in the beer. The 
quantity found in the implicated beers varied from grain or 
even less to 1^ grain per gallon, but in one sample no less 
than 3 grains per gallon were detected. 

The examination of beers from other makers not using the 
implicated sugars revealed the fact that arsenic was frequently 
present in quantities varying from ^- to ^ of a grain of 
arsenious acid per gallon. In these cases the poison has been 
traced through the malt to the fuel used in kiln-drying, and 
in a few instances traces of arsenic were discovered in various 
chemicals used in brewing. The compounds of arsenic present 
in the fuel are oxidized during the combustion, and a proportion 
of volatile arsenious acid is formed which condenses on the 
malt and in the kilns and flues. As hops are also kiln-dried, 
many samples were examined, and in nearly every case found 
to be free from arsenic, but in rare instances traces were 
detected. 

The examination of many other articles of food and drink 
rarely reveals the presence of arsenic, or of traces sufficiently 
large to determine, but, as both sulphuric acid and hydrochloric 
acid frequently contain arsenic in appreciable quantities, and 



MINEEAL POISONS IN FOOD AND DEINK 193 

are extensively used in the preparation of food and drinks, 
there is a danger of the poison being introduced into such 
preparations. 

Glucose is made by the action of sulphuric acid or hydro- 
chloric acid upon starch, and in samples other than that impli- 
cated in the outbreak of 1900-1 arsenic has been occasionally 
found. In the Government Laboratory 500 samples were 
examined. In the majority no arsenic was detected ; in the 
remainder, with only two exceptions, the amount present was 
below YFO grain per pound. Invert sugar, used by brewers of 
beer and cider, and in the manufacture of non-alcoholic 
beverages, is made by the action of acids on cane or beet 
sugar, and may, therefore, contain arsenic.. That made by 
means of the impure acid which led to the epidemic contained 
from 1-4 to 4'3 grains per pound, but other samples rarely con- 
tained as much as ^io grain per pound. Glycerine is another 
sweet substance which is liable to contain large traces of 
arsenic, 3 or 4 grains per pound having been reported. Caramel 
produced from glucose has been found to contain {- grain of 
arsenic per pound. Phosphoric acid and phosphates, boric 
acid and borates, tartaric acid and citric acid, acetic acid, 
sulphurous acid and sulphites, yeast and yeast foods, and 
alkaline carbonates, are all liable to contain traces of arsenic. 
Armenian bole, a red oxide of iron used in colouring sausages, 
&c., has been found to contain as much as 0'8 grain of 
arsenious acid per pound. Most of the malt now prepared 
contains less than -^ITO f a grain per pound, but samples have 
been examined containing -^ or of a grain of arsenic per 
pound. The foods, &c., which require to be systematically 
examined for arsenic are ' beer, foods in which a considerable 
proportion of glucose is used (e.g. table syrups, jams, marma- 
lade, and certain forms of confectionery), or which, like 
glucose, are prepared by the use of a relatively large quantity 
of sulphuric or hydrochloric acid (e.g. treacle, golden syrup, 
vinegar made from converted raw grain), and foods the princi- 
pal basis of which is malt or yeast, or into which glycerine 

13 



194 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

enters in any considerable proportion.' l A trace of arsenic has 
been found in West Indian sugars which have been treated 
with chloride of tin to give colour and ' bloom,' and was doubt- 
less introduced with the chemical. Traces have also been 
found with the following substances : chocolate (adulterated 
with Armenian bole), liquorice, sweets, chicory (doubtless from 
process of drying), coal-tar colours, and gelatine. 

Arsenic is often used as a seed dressing, and may be present 
in superphosphate manures, but there is no evidence showing 
that the grain or roots of crops so treated contain any arsenic. 
This poison is, it is alleged, sometimes given to poultry to aid 
in the fattening process, but fowls, fed on food containing 
distinct traces of arsenic, when examined yielded arsenic only 
from the feathers. Cooking vessels are alleged to be some- 
times enamelled with a preparation containing arsenic, but the 
Departmental Committee found no arsenic in the enamel of 
twenty-six specimens which they caused to be examined. 

The Committee obtained no evidence of arsenical poisoning 
due to the use of any article of food or drink other than beer. 
The excessive prevalence of alcoholic neuritis in Manchester 
and Liverpool leads to a suspicion that arsenical poisoning had 
been prevalent around these centres for some years before the 
epidemic outburst, and this view is supported by the fact that 
such cases of neuritis have become less common in those 
cities since 1902. In that year a series of cases of arsenic 
poisoning, three of which proved fatal, occurred in Halifax, 
all the persons attacked being beer drinkers. In this instance 
the implicated beers had been brewed from malt impregnated 
with arsenic, and the samples examined appeared to contain 
about ^ of a grain of arsenious acid per gallon. This 
quantity, therefore, seems capable of causing symptoms of 
poisoning, and Professor Delepine, from experiments made on 
rats, concludes that the continuous daily ingestion of j-fo of a 
grain of arsenic along with beer or food may be prejudicial to 
the human subje.ct. The Departmental Committee express 

1 Report of the Departmental Committee. 



MINEEAL POISONS IN FOOD AND DEINK 195 

the opinion that any quantity of arsenic, however small, is not 
to be regarded as admissible in any articles of food, and they 
think ' it should be the aim of food manufacturers to exclude 
arsenic altogether from their products.' 

In the epidemic of 1900 probably over 6,000 persons were 
affected, and a total of seventy fatal cases occurred after the 
nature of the disease was recognized, but it is probable that 
many others were erroneously attributed to 'chronic alcoholism, ' 
' cirrhosis of liver,' 'Addison's disease,' 'locomotor ataxy,' and 
various forms of neuritis. Dr. Niven, the Medical Officer 
of Health for Manchester, discovered a remarkable fall in the 
birth-rate in Manchester in 1901, a fall which was most 
marked in those districts which had principally suffered during 
the epidemic. This, he is inclined to attribute to the effect of 
the arsenic. The symptoms produced by the arsenical beers 
were of different clinical types, and are thus summarized in 
the second report of the Departmental Committee : 

' There occurred throughout the epidemic (and particularly 
it would seem towards its termination, when people had been 
drinking arsenical beer for many weeks or months, and so had 
taken considerable quantities of the poison), an abundance of 
cases in which, once the possibility of arsenic was entertained, 
there was comparatively little difficulty in deciding, on clinical 
grounds, that the illness was consistent with arsenical poison- 
ing. Such cases presented symptoms corresponding to those 
described as characteristic of subacute poisoning by arsenic, or 
which are met with in the poisoning which occasionally results 
from long-continued doses of arsenic taken medicinally. They 
showed, for example, inflammation of various mucous surfaces, 
leading to coryza, huskiness, lachrymation, and the like, gastro- 
intestinal disturbance and diarrhoaa, peripheral neuritis affecting 
sensory and motor nerves, and in some cases associated with 
herpes, or with well-marked erythromelalgia, keratosis, or 
recent pigmentation corresponding with that which not in- 
frequently occurs in persons taking arsenic for long periods. 

' On the other hand, symptoms of the above kind were often 



196 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

slight or absent altogether, and one of the most instructive 
points in connection with the outbreak is the occurrence of 
cases in which the symptoms, if taken by themselves and apart 
from the epidemic, would not have appeared to be readily or 
sufficiently explained by the suggestion that arsenic was the 
cause of the illness. Thus, in several comparatively mild 
cases, the sufferers complained merely of burning hands and 
feet, or they showed a variety of skin eruptions, which are 
observed in many conditions which have nothing to do with 
arsenical poisoning. In other cases, again, the main symptoms 
were those resulting from dilated heart, and special difficulty 
arose in cases showing evidence of well-marked peripheral 
neuritis not associated with symptoms pointing clearly to 
arsenic, and which appeared practically identical with " alco- 
holic neuritis," a disease previously considered to be the result, 
alike in drinkers of beer and spirits, of the toxic action of 
alcohol on nerve tissue.' 

It is probable that this neuritis is manifested more fre- 
quently when arsenic is taken along with alcohol than with- 
out, a view which is confirmed by an epidemic of arsenical 
poisoning which took place in Hyeres in 1887. Numerous 
cases of paralysis occurred, and it w r as an alcoholic drink 
wine contaminated with arsenic which caused the outbreak. 
This observation has led to the suggestion that the arsenic 
forms some compound with the organic matter found in wines 
and beers, differing in its effects from those of pure arsenious 
acid. There is no chemical evidence, however, of the existence 
of such a compound. The cacodyl compounds present some 
analogy to the hypothetical body, but they are relatively less 
toxic than arsenious oxide, and neither cacodylates nor allied 
bodies could be obtained from the implicated beers. 

Great differences in individual suceptibility were observed 
in the epidemic mentioned. This is only what would have 
been expected, as tolerance of arsenic is well known to exist 
amongst Styrian peasants, Cornish miners, makers of arsenical 
compounds, &c., whilst the administration of extremely small 






medicinal doses has been known to produce serious effects. 
Many people who drank large quantities of the arsenical 
beer remained apparently unaffected, whilst others who had 
taken comparatively small quantities exhibited symptoms of 
poisoning. 

Arsenic appears to be eliminated with comparative rapidity, 
but under certain conditions a cumulative action must be ac- 
knowledged in order to account for the observed facts. Many 
patients, for example, admitted to hospital in 1900 continued 
to show increasing signs of poisoning for weeks after beer had 
been discontinued, and an examination of the urine in several 
instances indicated that arsenic was being eliminated three 
weeks or more after the patient had been admitted to hospital, 
while in an exceptional instance Dr. Dixon Mann found 
arsenic in the urine after fifty-nine days. 

The arsenic appeared to be eliminated, not only by the 
urine, but in the sweat, by the shed epidermal scales, and by 
the hair. Dr. Dixon Mann showed that tissues containing 
keratin have a special affinity for arsenic, and he thinks that 
this may explain the effect of arsenic upon nerve tissue, since 
the nerve sheaths consist largely of keratin. 

Arsenical poisoning has also occurred from the use of 
confectionery coloured with arsenical pigments, and from the 
use of wearing apparel next to the skin dyed with colours 
containing arsenic or mordanted with an arseniate. Wall- 
papers containing arsenic have also given rise to symptoms of 
poisoning, and fatal results are believed to have followed on 
rare occasions. Whether the evil effects are due to dust from 
the paper, or to the impregnation of the air of the room with 
some intensely poisonous organic compound of arsenic, is not 
definitely known, but the latter explanation is the more 
probable, since such volatile arsenical compounds undoubtedly 
exist. Decomposing animal juices containing arsenic are 
intensely poisonous, and boiled potato made into a paste with 
a solution of arsenious acid, if kept in the dark, gives off some 
volatile matter with a distinct alliaceous odour. It is probably 



198 PKESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 

a compound of this kind, derived from the arsenic-stained 
paper, which causes the symptoms of arsenical poisoning. 
These products seem to be the result of the vital processes of 
low forms of vegetable life, since the Aspergillus glaucus and 
Mucor mucedo grow on arsenical pastes, with evolution of a 
garlic-like odour. The Penicillium breviculare flourishes so 
freely on paste, containing infinitesimal traces of arsenic, 
producing the characteristic odour, that it has actually been 
suggested as a delicate test for the presence of arsenic. These 
moulds grow most readily in the presence of oxygen, and at a 
temperature between 60 and 95 F. 

Since the dangers attending the use of arsenical stains, 
paints, and dyes have been recognized their use has practically 
been abandoned, but occasionally cases of illness occur which 
are traceable to the use of such compounds. 

Antimony. Quite recently Mr. Pond, of Liverpool, has 
directed the attention of the medical profession 1 to the fact 
that antimony is a constituent of the rubber rings forming a 
portion of the patent stoppers so largely used for mineral 
water, ale, and other bottled drinks, and that these rings are 
liable to crumble or wear, particles of the rubber getting into 
the liquid, to the possible detriment of the health of the 
consumers. His attention was first directed to this matter by a 
patient who was suffering from depression, with cold clammy 
hands, and had immediately afterwards to be operated upon 
for acute appendicitis. She was accustomed to drink daily 
about half a dozen bottles of non-intoxicating drinks sealed 
with these stoppers. Upon examining liquids bottled in this 
way he found in several cases particles of the red rubber 
which had evidently been derived from the ring on the stopper, 
and many of the stoppers were considerably worn. In one 
instance the ring had lost about 9 grains in weight, of which 
one-third would be antimony sulphide. Mr. Pond thinks 
these rubber particles, containing as they do about 30 per cent, 
of antimony sulphide, when introduced into the stomach, by 
1 The Lancet, June 10, 1905, p. 1,610. 



MINEEAL POISONS IN FOOD AND DEINK 199 

cumulative action produce antimonial poisoning, which may be 
a cause of appendicitis, probably also of dilated stomach, 
gastric ulcer, chronic constipation, &c. The ingestion of 
antimony may, in his opinion, lead to : (a) ' weakening of the 
muscular coat of the caecum and vermiform appendix, and the 
resulting appendicitis ; (b) weakening of the muscular coat of 
the stomach and dilatation of the stomach ; (c) irritation of the 
mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, and thereby 
some cases of gastric and intestinal ulcers ; and (d) weakening 
of the muscular coat of the intestine, and some cases of chroma 
constipation.' 

These rubber rings are said to contain approximately : 

Eubber 54 per cent. 

Antimony sulphide . . . 32 ,, 
Eed oxide of zinc ... 13 
Free sulphur .... 0*35 ,, 
Lime ...... 0'65 

It is obvious, therefore, that the particles of rubber getting into 
any beverage introduce an appreciable amount of antimony, 
and it is possible that the continued use of such beverages 
may cause ill health. According to Allbutt, 1 ' Towards anti- 
mony people exhibit a peculiar idiosyncrasy. Some are easily 
affected by the minutest dose, others are extremely tolerant of 
it.' Exceedingly small doses frequently administered cause a 
metallic taste in the mouth, with frequent vomiting, great 
prostration, clammy sweats and feeble pulse. In some cases 
vomiting maybe absent. Lehmann 2 states that 1 to 10 mlgm. 
of tartar emetic taken daily may cause chronic illness. Anti- 
mony like arsenic tends to accumulate in the nervous tissues, 
but no records appear to exist of its having produced any 
symptoms of peripheral neuritis such as is caused by arsenic. 
It is excreted with the urine, and it is probable that in any 
case of suspected poisoning antimony would be found in this 
fluid if the metal were the cause of the symptoms. 

1 System of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 942. 

2 Lehmann, Practical Hygiene, vol. xi. p. 382. 



200 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The subject is one of considerable interest and importance, 
and doubtless attention will be given to it, until Mr. Pond's 
theories are proved or disproved. 

A series of experiments made by one of us shows that no 
antimony enters into solution in soda water, lemonade, ginger 
beer, ale, stout, and wines from the rubber used with the 
stoppers, but that fine particles of such rubber are frequently 
found in the liquids, especially if the rings are old and 
becoming brittle. Thus, in six bottles of liquids with com- 
paratively new rings, traces of the rubber were only found in 
one, whereas in five bottles with old rings particles of rubber 
were found in three. The amount was very small, but doubt- 
less on occasions it may be appreciable. When a number of 
the rings were boiled in soda water for half an hour the 
antimony actually dissolved was too small to estimate, but in 
the residue left on the filter the antimony present averaged 
1 mlgm. per ring used. Boiled with a dilute solution of tartaric 
acid similar results were obtained, but the antimony was a 
little under 1 mlgm. per ring. All the rings had a red colour, 
and contained roughly from 15 to 25 per cent, of antimony. 
In opening some bottled fruits it was found that occasionally 
comparatively large pieces of the rubber rings broke off, but 
such pieces would be removed before the fruit was poured 
from the bottle. Our present knowledge will not permit of 
our asserting that there is any danger of poisoning from this 
cause, but it is obviously desirable that poisonous substances, 
especially if known to have a cumulative action, should not be 
allowed to come in contact with articles used for food or 
drink. 

Lead. Although cases of lead poisoning are far from un- 
common, the metal is rarely introduced into the system with 
the food or with beverages, other than water. Epidemics of. 
lead poisoning have occurred from the use of moorland waters 
stored in leaden cisterns or passing through lead pipes, and it 
is from the study of these outbreaks that we have learnt that 
infinitesimal amounts of lead administered over a lengthened 



MINEEAL POISONS IN FOOD AND DEINK 201 

period are capable of producing serious effects, and even death. 
Water containing y^-g- of a grain of lead per gallon is stated 
to have caused symptoms of poisoning, but this is doubtful, 
since waters acting on lead will at one time contain even less 
than j-j^ of a grain per gallon, and at others possibly as 
much as 1 grain, the amount depending upon the length of 
time the water has been in contact with the metal of the pipe 
or cistern, the temperature and other factors. There is a 
.general consensus of opinion that a water containing an 
average of T \j- of a grain per gallon is dangerous. Assuming 
that a person imbibes 3 pints of such water daily he would take 
.into the system a little over 1 grain of the metal per month. 
Very small quantities of lead, therefore, in a substance likely 
to be consumed in any quantity, or for considerable periods, 
should be sufficient to condemn it as dangerous to health. 1 

Aerated w r aters not infrequently contain traces of lead 
derived from the ' tin ' lining of the copper cylinders in which 
the water is impregnated with gas, the tin used for tinning 
copper vessels almost invariably containing a certain percent- 
age of lead. Tin-lined lead pipes also are not free from 
danger, as in some w 7 ay a small quantity of lead becomes 
diffused throughout the tin, and the lining is apt to give 
way at the bends. Lead has also been found in cider and 
ale, in the latter case derived from the pipes leading from the 
casks to the pumps at the counter. Naturally the ale which 
has been standing in the pipes all night will contain an 
appreciable amount of lead, especially if the ale has an acid 

1 In one large northern town, supplied with upland water, cases of undoubted 
lead poisoning occur occasionally which are attributed, rightly or wrongly, to the 
water supply. The plumbo-solvent action of the water is very slight, so much so 
that it gives negative results when tested after the manner recommended by 
Houston. Eepeated examinations show that the water which has been standing 
over night in the pipes contains between -^ and ^ 5 grain of lead per gallon, whilst 
during the day the amount falls to -^ or yJ^ grain per gallon. The patients are 
usually women, and although it is impossible to remove suspicion from the water, 
inquiries in connection with other articles of food giving negative results, it must 
be remembered that pills containing lead are occasionally surreptitiously employed 
by women to procure abortion, and these may be the cause of the symptoms 
observed. 



202 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

reaction. Fruits and vegetables preserved in tinned iron cans 
take up traces of both lead and tin, the amount varying with 
the acidity of the fruit, and to a certain extent with the time 
the fruit, &c., has been in the tins. In such cases the lining 
of the can usually shows signs of the effect of the acid, varying 
from a mere discoloration to distinct evidences of corrosion. 
The amount of lead dissolved in this way is small compared 
with the amount of tin. Experiments made in the laboratories 
of the Massachusetts State Board of Health with various 
kinds of tinned fruits, broths, soups, salmon, and lobster, 
showed that the total amount of lead dissolved and contained 
in the whole tin (0*5 to 1 kilo) rarely exceeded 1 mlgm., whilst 
the quantity of tin was frequently 100 times as much. If the 
acid liquid can come in contact with the solder, or if pieces of 
solder are found in the tin, the amount of lead dissolved may 
possibly be increased. Many articles of food and drink are 
preserved in vessels closed with a capsule of soft metal con- 
taining lead, or in bottles in which a ring of soft metal is 
placed between the stopper and neck. In such cases traces 
of lead may be dissolved. Citric acid, tartaric acid, and cream 
of tartar not infrequently contain lead, taken up from the 
pans in which the chemicals have been prepared, and occa- 
sionally minute particles of lead have been found in these 
articles, apparently due to the scraping of the leaden pan in 
order to separate the crystals which had adhered to the side 
during evaporation. These chemicals are largely employed 
for making beverages, hence the presence of any appreciable 
quantity of lead should be sufficient to condemn them as 
being dangerous. There need be no hesitation in condemning 
such samples, as the chemicals can be prepared, at little if any 
additional expense, in such a manner as to prevent contami- 
nation with lead. Tea which has been in contact with the lead 
foil of the packing case has been found to contain traces of 
the metal. 

Certain enamels used for glazing earthenware and for coat- 
ing iron cooking vessels, and the tinning on copper vessels, 



MINEEAL POISONS IN FOOD AND DEINK 203 

generally contain lead, and may give up traces of the metal 
to the food prepared therein. 

Lead poisoning has also been produced by the efficacious 
but dangerous method of cleaning out decanters by means of 
shot. 

It is obvious, therefore, that lead may be derived from 
very many sources, and though the quantity may be small, 
the metal may continue to accumulate in the system until 
capable of causing injury to health. There is certainly also 
a great difference between individuals in their susceptibility 
to the action of lead, a peculiar idiosyncrasy rendering some 
persons much more liable than others. There is also an 
hereditary disposition, and young women seem especially 
likely to be affected. There can be no doubt also that 
sufferers from kidney disease are very liable to injury, the 
limited powers of elimination being still further decreased. 

According to Oliver l lead poisoning occurs in four forms. 
' In the first colic is the most important symptom ; in the 
second the central nervous system is profoundly affected, the 
patient being the subject of epileptiform seizures, called " lead 
encephalopathy " ; the third is the neuro-muscular form in 
which " wrist-drop " is the most marked symptom ; and in the 
fourth are ' included all those cases of chronic plumbism 
characterized by profound cachexia, early decrepitude and 
albuminuria.' 

In the chronic form, resulting from the long-continued use 
of water and other beverages or articles of food containing small 
quantities of lead, a peculiar angemic condition is usually first 
observed, and when the mouth is examined a blue line is noted 
round the margin of the gums where they are in contact with 
the teeth. This blue line is not absolutely pathognomonic, 
since other metals have been known to produce it, but in 
the latter instances it speedily disappears, whereas if due to 
lead it is very persistent. It is absent where teeth 
have been drawn, and frequently where the tooth-brush is 
1 Allbutt's System of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 969. 



204 PEESEEVAT1VES IN FOOD 

adequately employed. The anaemic condition results in a 
general condition of malnutrition, especially affecting women, 
causing menstrual troubles and a great tendency, when 
pregnant, to abort. Attacks of colic are frequent, ' wrist- 
drop ' may be observed, or the joints may be gouty, or show 
signs of rheumatism. Sight may be affected from neuro- 
retinitis, and loss of vision may result. The functional 
activity of the liver and kidneys becomes deranged, and 
chronic interstitial nephritis may be found post-mortem. 
Death usually occurs from some intercurrent disease, the 
natural resistance of the constitution being so reduced as to 
make the sufferer an easy prey. When the action of lead is 
suspected the history of the case, together with the detection 
of traces of lead in the urine, may be regarded as conclusive 
evidence. 

Tin. Prior to the discovery of ptomaines, toxins, and 
other poisons produced in decomposing animal matter, the ill 
effects caused by foods preserved in tinned receptacles were 
usually attributed to the presence of tin, dissolved by the 
juices of the food. At the present time no one seriously 
contends that the amount of tin in solution in these foods has 
any effect upon the system. As a rule the quantity is very 
small, rarely amounting to one grain per pound of food 
substance. Very acid fruits may dissolve more than this 
quantity, and should be preserved in vessels of glass, but as it 
would be practically impossible to prove injury, or serious 
danger, to health from the use of such fruit, the subject is one 
to which no further reference need be made. 

Copper. The compounds of copper are rarely found in 
appreciable quantity in articles of food save such green 
vegetables as have had their colour preserved by the addition 
of a salt of copper, and this subject is referred to at length in 
the section relating to colouring matters. 



PART IV 

CHAPTER XVII 

FOOD INSPECTION: LAWS RELATING THERETO 

THE statutory powers governing the seizure and condemnation 
of unsound food in the provinces are contained in sections 
116, 117, 118, and 119 of the Public Health Act, 1875, extended 
by section 28 of the Public Health Acts Amendment Act, 1890, 
and for London in section 47 of the Public Health (London) 
Act, 1891. 

By virtue of section 116 of the Public Health Act, 1875, a 
medical officer of health or inspector of nuisances is enabled to 
inspect and examine, at all reasonable times, any animal, 
carcass, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, 
corn, bread, flour or milk exposed for sale, or deposited in 
any place for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale, 
and intended for the food of man. The onus of proving that 
the food was not exposed or deposited for any such purpose, 
or was not intended for the food of man, rests with the party 
charged. If the article of food appears to the medical officer 
or inspector to be diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or 
unfit for the food of man, he may seize and carry away the 
same himself or by an assistant, in order to have the same 
dealt with by a justice. 

Under section 117 the justice, if it appears to him that the 
article of food seized is diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, 
or unfit for the food of man, must condemn the same, and 
order it to be destroyed or so disposed of as to prevent it from 
being exposed or used for the food of man. 



206 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Further, the person to whom the same belongs, or did 
belong at the time of exposure for sale, or in whose possession 
or on whose premises the same was found, is liable to a penalty 
not exceeding twenty pounds for every animal, carcass, or fish, 
or piece of meat, flesh or fish, or any poultry or game, or for 
the parcel of fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, or flour, or for the 
milk so condemned, or, at the discretion of the justice, without 
the infliction of a fine, to imprisonment for a term of not more 
than three months. 

There are therefore two steps necessary in dealing with 
unsound food. In the first place it must be seized personally 
either by the medical officer of health or inspector of nuisances, 
and submitted to a magistrate for condemnation ; and, secondly, 
further proceedings may be taken, if the food seized is 
condemned, for the enforcement of the penalty. A second 
information is required for this purpose, the hearing usually 
being fixed for a date subsequent to that on which the food is 
condemned. 

Section 117 further provides that the justice empowered to 
inflict the penalty need not necessarily be the magistrate who 
ordered the food to be disposed of or destroyed an obvious 
convenience. It will be seen, however, that the food must not 
be destroyed without a magistrate's order, otherwise the local 
authority are liable to damages (Ormerod v. Mayor of 
Bochdale, 62 J.P. 153). In the proceedings for the con- 
demnation of the food it is unnecessary to summon the owner 
to attend, but the magistrate may hear evidence as to the 
condition of the food, and if he declines to condemn it the 
owner can obtain full compensation, including the costs 
incurred in opposing the condemnation (In re Bater and 
Williamson and Mayor, &c., of Birkenhead, L.E. 1893, 2 Q.B. 
77). Under section 116 live animals have been seized. 

In districts where Part III. of the Public Health Acts 
Amendment Act, 1890, has been adopted, the list of articles 
of food which can be seized and dealt with is made, by 
virtue of section 28 subsection (1), to include all articles 



FOOD INSPECTION: LAWS KELATING THERETO 207 

intended for the food of man, and moreover if the food has 
been sold, provided it has been properly seized, the person in 
whose possession it was found, or to whom the food belonged 
at the time of exposure for sale, is liable to the penalties 
authorised by section 117 of the Public Health Act, 1875. 

Under section 28 subsection (2) of the 1890 Act, a 
magistrate may condemn any such article of food and order it 
to be destroyed or disposed of, as mentioned in section 117 of 
the Public Health Act, 1875, if satisfied on complaint being 
made to him that such article is diseased, unsound, unwhole- 
some, or unfit for the food of man, although the same has not 
been seized as mentioned in section 116 of the 1875 Act. 
Apparently under such circumstances no penalty follows 
beyond the destruction of the article, and, judging from Firth 
v. McPhail (J.P. 69, p. 205), proceedings other than seizure 
will fail unless there has been an exposure for sale by the 
defendant, and not merely a deposit for the purpose of sale. 
This difficulty does not exist in London. 

Section 118 of the 1875 Act provides a penalty if any 
person prevents the medical officer of health or inspector of 
nuisances from entering any premises for the purpose of 
inspecting the articles of food specified in section 116, or if 
he obstructs or impedes the medical officer, or inspector, or his 
assistant, when carrying into execution the provisions of the Act. 

Section 119 provides for the obtaining of a search warrant 
on complaint made on oath by a medical officer of health, or 
by an inspector of nuisances, or other officer of a local 
authority, before a magistrate, for entry of any building, or part 
of a building, in which such officer has reason for believing 
that there is kept or concealed any of the articles detailed in 
section 116. There is also a penalty against any person 
obstructing such officer in the performance of his duty under 
such warrant. 

The extension of powers conferred by section 28 subsection 
(1) of the 1890 Act, also embraces the provisions of sections 
118 and 119 of the 1875 Act. 



208 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The provisions as to the sale of unsound food in the Public 
Health (London) Act are on similar lines to those in the two 
provincial Acts, the penalties being, however, increased to fifty 
pounds, or six months' imprisonment with or without hard 
labour. 

. Under section 15. of the Markets and Fairs Clauses Act, 
which is incorporated with the Public Health Act, any person 
exposing for sale any unsound food in a market under the 
control of the sanitary authority is liable to a penalty, but the 
procedure differs materially from that under the Public Health 
Act, since the justice must order the food seized to be further 
examined by competent persons before making any order for 
its destruction or otherwise. This important safeguard to the 
seller is not included in the Public Health Act. Under the 
Fairs Clauses Act, bye-laws may be made for preventing the 
sale, exposure for sale, &c., of unwholesome provisions. 

Under Section 31 of the Public Health Acts Amendment 
Act the occupier of any slaughter-house may have his license 
revoked if he is convicted of having in his possession or on his 
premises the carcass of any animal, or any piece of meat or 
flesh, which is unfit for human food. 

It is evident, therefore, that a medical officer of health 
should be acquainted with the appearances commonly met 
with in food which will justify him in asking a magistrate to 
condemn a specimen as being ' diseased or unsound, or un- 
wholesome, or unfit for the food of man,' and it is by no means 
always easy to steer a clear course between making seizures 
which cannot readily be justified, and allowing articles of food 
to be sold which theoretically might be expected to be capable 
of causing illness. Our knowledge of the effects of many 
abnormal conditions of food on the human economy is by no 
means an exact one, though it is becoming clearer with the 
advance of bacteriological and chemical research. To take a 
concrete example, it is usual to condemn as unfit for food the 
carcass of a cow which has died in parturition, though, as far 
as we are aware, there is no evidence that such meat is 



FOOD INSPECTION: LAWS KELATING THERETO 209 

prejudicial to health. Theoretically one would suppose that 
the tissues are filled with abnormal metabolic products derived 
from the muscular contractions in the course of labour which 
would render it unwholesome, and as a rule butchers acquiesce 
in the condemnation of such a carcass. Again, in the condition 
known as ' braxy ' in sheep the general practice is to condemn 
the carcass, although it is apparently regarded as a delicacy by 
some Scotch shepherds. 

The increasing consumption of bananas recently led to 
some conflicting evidence in a North of England police court. 
A quantity of this fruit was seized by the medical officer of 
health as being over-ripe and so unfit for the food of man, but 
the owner produced a number of witnesses connected with 
the trade, whose evidence was to the effect that bananas are not 
at their best until they begin to soften, and that in this 
condition they most nearly resemble the state in which they 
are eaten in their native land. The fruit was destroyed by the 
order of the court, though it is by no means certain that the 
opinion of the medical officer of health was the correct one. 
There is no doubt that acts of injustice have frequently been 
perpetrated by the destruction of an article of food before the 
owner has had the opportunity of having it examined by an 
expert, or without his having time to communicate with the 
merchants from whom it was purchased. It is very difficult 
sometimes to decide whether an article is unfit for food or not, 
and although from the sanitary point of view it may be the 
better course to seize it and get it condemned, it must not be 
forgotten that such action may most seriously affect the 
reputation and business of a perfectly innocent person. 

The most essential qualification of a food inspector is an 
intimate knowledge of the characters of articles of food of all 
kinds, and of the various changes to which they are prone 
when kept under different conditions. Without this intimate 
knowledge it will be impossible for him to decide whether any 
condition is abnormal or not, or whether the condition is such 
as to justify the seizure of the article of food as being unsound 

14 



210 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

or not. Even with this knowledge it is impossible in many 
cases to arrive at a conclusion which may not be challenged. 
A piece of fresh beef admittedly wholesome becomes by keeping 
decidedly putrid and admittedly unwholesome. The change is 
a gradual one, and it is impossible for anyone to say at what 
moment the wholesome meat becomes so changed as to be 
unwholesome. Not only may opinions differ, but customs 
differ. A piece of meat kept until it is tainted w r ould be 
condemned, yet the stage of decomposition attained may not 
be so advanced as that reached by game when ' high ' and 
in perfect condition. Cheese is not condemned because it is 
affected by moulds or infected by mites, whilst most other 
articles of food so affected would be unhesitatingly condemned. 
Physical, chemical, and sometimes bacteriological tests need on 
occasions to be applied, but unless these can be done quickly, 
they are of no practical utility. For example, a batch of oysters 
or a can of milk cannot be seized and kept until the results 
of a bacteriological examination are known ; if there is not 
anything obviously abnormal, there must be some other ground 
for seizure, but a subsequent bacteriological examination may 
be made to justify the seizure. 



CHAPTEK XVIII 

UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 

IN America, Germany, and other countries, far greater super- 
vision is exercised over the food supply than in Great Britain. 
In the numerous public abattoirs animals are carefully 
examined before slaughter, and the carcasses and organs 
are inspected during the process of dressing. This control is 
doubtless of great importance, but the amount of disease 
produced in this country, at least, from the consumption of 
unwholesome food, and especially by butchers' meat, is either 
very small indeed, or it escapes observation, and this notwith- 
standing the fact that as a nation we are great flesh consumers. 
Outbreaks of food poisoning from time to time occur, but these 
have usually been attributed to cooked meats, the change which 
rendered them deleterious having occurred subsequent to the 
cooking, and not being antecedent thereto. The correctness of 
these views will be considered later. The chief dangers to be 
apprehended from the use of unsound meat are the dissemination 
of tape-worms, echinococcus disease, trichinosis, tuberculosis, 
and 'ptomaine poisoning,' and systematic meat inspection may 
not only prevent these infections in man, but also prevent the 
infection of animals which are allowed to eat infected offal. 
The latter point is too frequently overlooked, but is an im- 
portant one to the farmer and cattle breeder. Of secondary 
but still of considerable importance is the detection of fraud, 
by the palming off upon the unsuspecting public of the meat of 
immature and diseased animals at the price of sound and 
wholesome meat. The consumer himself will, as a rule, take 
care to avoid eating ' putrid ' meat. 



212 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Domestic animals probably suffer from as great a variety of 
diseases as human beings, and certain of these diseases are capable 
of being transmitted from animal to animal, or from animals to 
man. The veterinary surgeon examining an animal during life 
may be able to decide whether it is healthy, or, if not, whether 
it is suffering from any disease which would render the car- 
cass or any part thereof unfit for food, but usually the meat 
inspector has to form an opinion from the examination of the 
dressed carcass, or portions thereof, without knowing any- 
thing of the animal previous to slaughter, and frequently 
without even the opportunity of examining the internal 
organs or all the portions constituting the carcass. This 
renders the process of meat inspection much more difficult, 
though sometimes the examination of even a portion of a 
carcass may enable the inspector to decide that the animal 
was suffering from some disease, and possibly even to specify 
the disease. Fortunately, the diseases most readily trans- 
missible to man can be discovered by inspection, if the carcass 
or any portion thereof is so infected as to be dangerous to the 
health of the consumer, and in other cases, although the 
particular disease from which the animal suffered may not be 
known, an opinion can be formed as to whether the flesh is 
wholesome or not. In addition to the inspection of the fat and 
muscular tissue, the examination of the viscera and lymphatic 
glands is always a great aid in arriving at a correct conclusion, 
and should be adopted as a matter of routine wherever possible ; 
but it is obviously impossible in the case of imported carcasses 
and of meat exposed for sale in shops. 

In good meat the muscle should be firm and elastic. The 
colour will depend largely on the age of the animal. The cut 
section should be of uniform appearance that is, the interior of 
the joint should not differ from the exterior, and the consistency 
should be uniform. The section should have a marbled 
appearance from the presence of interstitial fat, and there 
should be an absence of gelatinous or purulent fluid in the 
septa between the muscles. The intermuscular tissue should 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 213 

not be soft or tear easily, and when a piece of red litmus-paper 
is applied to it, it should not be turned blue. The fluid which 
oozes from it should be thin, red, neutral, or slightly acid in 
reaction, and without offensive odour. 

If the colour is a deep purple it suggests that the animal 
has not been properly slaughtered and bled, and, therefore, that 
it was killed on account of some accident or disease. If the 
colour is pale and the flesh ' watery,' the animal had probably 
been suffering from some disease causing dropsy. Commencing 
decomposition is indicated by the colour becoming paler, the 
flesh softer, and the juice alkaline, and by the distinctive smell 
of fresh meat being superseded by that of putrefaction. It is 
not until decomposition has advanced that the colour becomes 
greenish. Any evidence of decomposition should lead to the 
condemnation of the meat. Abnormal odours may be due to 
some physic administered to the animal before death, and such 
odours are rendered more evident if a little of the meat is 
chopped fine and drenched with hot water. 

By thrusting a knife into the joint the consistency as well 
as the smell of the interior can be tested. The resistance to 
the passage of the knife should be uniform, and the knife blade 
when removed should not have any objectionable odour. The 
meat of a healthy animal should ' set ' within twenty-four 
hours, and this property is often made use of as a criterion in 
doubtful cases. Kigor mortis is hastened by very strong 
muscular contractions before death, as in hunted animals, or in 
cases of tetanus, or of strychnine poisoning. In such a carcass 
rigor mortis may commence within a few minutes of death. It 
is frequently delayed in diseases such as septicaemia and dropsy. 

The fat varies in colour in different species of animals, 
being white in young cattle, sheep, goats, and hogs, and yellow 
in old cattle. In calves it is often at first a reddish yellow- 
white. In any case it should be firm and free from haemorrhages. 

Animals which have been subjected to so-called 'emergency 
slaughter' should be looked upon with great suspicion, and the 
meat should only be passed after a very careful examination of 



214 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

all the cavities and organs, as well as of the flesh itself. Apart 
from the question of the flesh being unwholesome on account 
of the cause which has led to the necessity for slaughter, the 
bleeding is in such animals not infrequently defective, and the 
keeping qualities are thereby impaired. If the history of the 
illness is not sufficient to enable a decision to be arrived at, 
special attention should be paid to the serous membranes, the 
thoracic and abdominal organs, and the lymphatic glands, for 
evidence of tubercle, and to the spleen for anthrax. In ad- 
dition to the routine examination of the chief organs, the 
following should not be forgotten : abnormal conditions of the 
sexual passages connected with parturition, parenchymatous 
inflammation of the udder, gastro-enteritis, peritonitis, and 
pleurisy. As regards the flesh in such cases, ' If the meat of 
animals slaughtered on account of disease shows an alkaline 
reaction within twenty-four hours after death, the meat is to 
be considered, in doubtful cases, as unqualifiedly foul, and 
therefore unfit for food. Likewise, in doubtful cases, the 
unfitness for food of the meat of animals slaughtered on 
account of disease is unquestionable if, within forty-eight 
hours after death, the muscle fibres show under the micro- 
scope a loss of their characteristic cross-striation, a granular 
cloudiness, and a disintegration into fragments.' 1 

In any case of doubt a decision should be deferred for at 
least twenty-four hours in summer and forty-eight in winter. 
In septicaemic conditions there will probably be sufficient 
alteration in the appearance and odour of the meat after these 
periods to afford reliable criteria for further action. In the 
section dealing with epidemics of meat poisoning, stress is laid 
on the fact that in certain infections bacteria may be 
circulating in the system before death, but may escape 
detection in the flesh immediately after slaughter, and that 
rapid multiplication takes place after death, rendering the 
carcass a most dangerous article of food, although normal in 
appearance and smell. 

1 Handbook of Meat Inspection, Ostertag, translated by Wilcox, 1904, p. 736. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 215 

A detailed bacteriological examination of doubtful meat 
will probably require too many days to be of any practical 
value, though the fact that in healthy flesh, examined soon after 
slaughter, the interior is sterile has occasionally been of service. 

When an animal is slaughtered on account of an accident 
the meat is usually passed as sound, if on examination no 
abnormal conditions are to be found. The same is also true 
when the slaughtering is effected on account of insuperable 
obstacles to parturition. 

In instances of ' natural death ' each case must be judged 
on its merits. It is generally infectious diseases and septic- 
aemia which are responsible for sudden deaths, and, in 
addition to the danger to the health of the consumers on this 
account, the absence of proper bleeding, and the retention of 
the thoracic and abdominal viscera favour rapid decom- 
position. Such carcasses as a rule should be condemned. 

The meat of immature animals is not apparently unwhole- 
some, but it is not usually considered marketable. During the 
first eight to fourteen days after birth the muscles are poorly 
developed, flabby, and watery. They may be soft enough to 
give way before the finger. There are, moreover, w T hat may 
be termed aesthetic reasons for rejecting such meat. In many 
countries local regulations exist as to the minimum age at 
which animals may be slaughtered for food, and as a rule eight 
days may be considered as the lowest reasonable limit. The 
meat of foetuses is universally held to be unmarketable, 
although among certain gourmands, notably the ancient 
Romans, such food was considered a delicacy. 

Of the non-infectious and parasitic disorders which lead to 
the condemnation of the whole or portions of the carcass, the 
commonest are cedema from heart, kidney, or liver disease, and 
tumours, the latter of which may be benign or malignant. In 
forming an opinion as to how much of the carcass should be con- 
demned, each case would require to be considered on its merits. 

The subjoined brief description of a few of the diseases of 
animals, which are of importance from the inspector's point of 



216 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

view, may be useful in showing the degree of risk incurred by 
consuming the flesh of animals suffering therefrom, and the 
parts of animals most likely to be affected, and, therefore, 
requiring particular examination. Unfortunately there is 
nothing in this country analogous to the methods adopted 
in some parts of the Continent, where meat from diseased 
animals, if not absolutely condemned, may be stamped as 
inferior or diseased and so sold, the purchaser knowing 
exactly what he is buying and how to avoid any risk ; or 
where certain meats are first treated by boiling or steaming so 
as to destroy all parasites and dangerous organisms, and the 
meat is then sold at a cheap rate to the poor. Here, we must 
either pass the meat as wholesome, or seize it and get it 
condemned as unsound, a method which no doubt on occasions 
results in the destruction of food which by appropriate treat- 
ment would have been quite wholesome and of full nutritive 
value. 

Tubercular Diseases. From the time of Koch's discovery 
of the tubercle bacillus until 1901, there was a general 
consensus of opinion that human and bovine tuberculosis were 
due to one and the same organism, although it was admitted 
that, whilst it was comparatively easy to infect cattle, pigs, 
sheep, horses, and other animals with tuberculosis by the use 
of bacilli of bovine origin, it was very difficult to infect cattle 
with bacilli of human origin. In 1901 Koch announced his 
opinion that human tuberculosis differs from bovine and could 
not be transmitted to cattle, basing it upon experiments con- 
ducted under his own observation, and alleging confirmation 
from the fact that a primary lesion of the intestine is rarely 
met with in man, as would be the case if the disease were 
communicable by the consumption of meat or milk infested 
with tubercle. This has such an important bearing upon 
public health that a Royal Commission was soon after ap- 
pointed by the English Government to investigate the relations 
between tubercle in man and animals. Up to the present the 
Commissioners have only issued a brief interim report (1904), 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 217 

in which they stated that they had inoculated bovine animals 
with more than twenty different strains of tubercle bacilli 
from human subjects, and that seven of these strains had proved 
capable of giving rise at once to acute tuberculosis in cattle. 
Most of the other strains produced more or less local lesions, 
but five of these, after being passed from one bovine to another, 
or through guinea-pigs, ultimately proved capable of producing 
general tuberculosis. The Commissioners, therefore, con- 
cluded that tubercle of human origin can give rise to bovine 
tuberculosis, the inference being that tuberculosis of cattle 
and man are practically identical in origin. Still more re- 
cently the Imperial (German) Board of Health has issued a 
report based upon researches carried out by Drs. Weber, 
Kossel, and Heuss, in which the opinion of Koch is confirmed. 
The reporters affirm that the bacillus tuberculosis humanus 
differs from the bacillus tuberculosis bovinus in its morpho- 
logical, cultural, and pathogenic properties. Cattle inoculated 
with the bovine type at once contracted general tuberculosis, 
whilst those inoculated with the human type remained in 
good general health, and suffered temporarily only from the 
localized effect of the introduction of the bacilli. Animals fed on 
food infected with the bovine type were speedily affected, 
whilst those fed on similar food infected with the human 
type remained quite healthy. Similar results were obtained 
by inhalation experiments. It is probable, therefore, that 
two types really exist, and that the seven strains, which the 
British Commission found capable of producing bovine tuber- 
culosis, were of the bovine type. The German Commission 
found this bovine type in six cases out of fifty-six of human 
tuberculosis, and all six cases were primary tuberculosis of 
the intestines and mesenteric glands occurring in children. The 
results obtained by Hamilton and Young, and published in 
the ' Transactions ' of the Highland Agricultural Society of 
Scotland (1903), l appear to be diametrically opposed to those 
obtained by the German pathologists, since they had no 

1 Eeprinted in Public Health, September 1903. 



218 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

difficulty in infecting calves, by feeding, inoculation, and by 
spraying. Their conclusions are summarized as under : 

1. That, although human tubercle is probably not as 
virulent for the calf as that derived from bovines, yet it can be 
readily inoculated upon that animal. 

2. That this holds good whether the tubercle inoculated be 
derived from tubercular lymph glands, tubercular lungs, tuber- 
cular sputum, or tubercular urine. 

3. That it produces this positive result irrespective of 
whether it be introduced by feeding the animal with the 
tubercular material, by subcutaneous inoculation upon a 
peripheral part, by respiration of a spray containing the 
bacillus, or by injection into the venous system. 

4. That the organs most affected are those in immediate 
connection with the part operated upon. 

5. That the lymphatic system is constantly involved in the 
resulting tuberculosis. 

6. That when administered by the mouth tubercular 
sputum induces an abdominal lymph gland tuberculosis, with- 
out necessarily the intestine being in any way involved. 

7. That when tuberculosis from a human source has been 
ingrafted upon a calf, it gains enormously in virulence by 
being reinoculated upon a second calf. 

8. That the morphological characters of the bacillus may 
vary according to circumstances, and are no guide to the 
source of the organism under observation.. 

9. That the above facts go to favour the view that the 
human bacillus and that of bovines are identical, but modi- 
fied somewhat by their environment. 

10. That these results are a direct contradiction of those 
alleged to have been obtained by Koch and Schutz. 

With such conflicting reports it is difficult to arrive at any 
definite conclusion, but it may be taken as proved that in a 
certain, but possibly small, proportion of cases tubercle bacilli 
of the bovine type are found in persons suffering from tuber- 
culosis, and that the persons from whom such bacilli are 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 219 

obtained had suffered from tuberculosis of the intestine and 
mesenteric glands, and that they had almost certainly been 
infected by tuberculous milk or meat. There is, therefore, 
some danger of infection from the consumption of the flesh of an 
animal suffering from tuberculosis, though possibly the danger 
is very small, much less indeed than has hitherto been 
supposed. 

Since the infectivity of tuberculous meat is still probable, 
in dealing with tuberculosis the recommendations made by the 
Royal Commission of 1898 should be strictly carried out the 
entire carcass and all the organs should be condemned : 

(a.) When there is miliary tuberculosis of both lungs. 

(b.) When tuberculous lesions are present in the pleura and 
peritoneum. 

(c.) When tuberculous lesions exist in the muscular system, 
or in the lymphatic glands embedded in or between the 
muscles. 

(d.) When tuberculous lesions exist in any part of an 
emaciated carcass. 

The carcass if otherwise healthy should not be condemned, 
but every part of it containing tuberculous lesions should be 
seized : 

(a.) When the lesions are confined to the lungs and the 
thoracic lymph glands. 

(b.) When the lesions are confined to the liver. 

(c.) When the lesions are confined to any combination of 
the foregoing, but are collectively small in extent. 

As regards pigs the Commissioners recommended that the 
presence of tubercular deposit in any degree should lead to the 
condemnation of the whole carcass and all the organs. They 
further recommended that seizures shall ensue in any case 
in which the pleura of foreign dead meat shall have been 
stripped. 

Although the post-mortem recognition of tuberculous 
deposits in animals usually presents no difficulties to those 
who are acquainted with similar processes in man, there are 



220 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

certain differences in appearance between human and bovine 
tuberculosis which should be borne in mind. Speaking gene- 
rally, it is unusual to find any large cavities in the lungs of 
animals suffering from tubercle, the commonest condition being 
a wide-spread tuberculous broncho-pneumonia, the amount of 
caseation which has occurred depending on the length of time 
that the disease has existed. The serous tuberculosis of cattle 
(grapes or perlsucht) has no counterpart in man. The tubercles 
on the pleura and peritoneum may be of any size, from miliary 
deposits up to large tumours 8 inches or more in thickness. 
In the kidneys of cattle the deposits may also be of a large 
size without breaking down, and may resemble new growths 
in consequence. The chief other pathological conditions with 
which tuberculosis is likely to be confounded, are actino- 
mycotic deposits, caseous echinococci and cysticerci, caseated 
pentastomes, and strongylus nodules in the lungs of sheep. A 
microscopical examination may be necessary in doubtful cases, 
the presence of the characteristic mycelia indicating actinomy- 
cosis, the striated or lamellated condition of the wall denoting 
echinococci, whilst in the case of pentastomes and strongylidaB 
the claws or booklets and the worms respectively will be 
found. The corresponding glands will, in addition, probably 
not be tuberculous. 

The presence of coccidia in the liver of the rabbit gives 
rise to an appearance somewhat resembling tuberculosis. A 
microscopical examination will readily differentiate the two 
conditions (see Coccidia). 

If tubercle is suspected, and if the thoracic and abdominal 
serous membranes and viscera are not available for examina- 
tion, special attention should be paid to the lymphatic glands. 
The most important group from this point of view is the set 
of glands which lie in the interchondral spaces on each side of 
the sternum. They are situated about an inch in front of the 
costochondral articulations, and beneath the fascia next the 
pleura ; generally they are partially covered by a layer of 
muscular tissue. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 221 

Another group affected early in tuberculosis is the set of 
glands situated on each side of the dorsal and lumbar verte- 
brae ; they are embedded in fat, and may be removed by the 
butcher along with the viscera. Similarly the deep inguinal 
glands, embedded in fat and situated on the anterior lip of the 
pelvis, should be examined. 

The popliteal glands are generally only affected in severe 
generalized cases of tuberculosis. The pharyngeal group is 
very seldom left in a carcass that has been dressed, but is 
usually attacked at an early stage of the disease. 

Anthrax. This disease affects man as well as animals, but 
it is very doubtful whether the disease is ever conveyed to man 
through the medium of meat. Butchers frequently become 
infected when cutting up an animal suffering from the disease, 
whilst those who eat the flesh remain entirely unaffected. In 
consequence of the frequency of such infection the Board of 
Agriculture and Fisheries has recently issued the following 
circular : 

NOTICE TO BUTCHERS, SLAUGHTERERS, KNACKERS, and other persons 
engaged in Great Britain in slaughtering Animals, or in dress- 
ing or otherwise handling Carcasses of Animals. 

ANTHKAX. 

Cases come under the notice of the Board of Agriculture and 
Fisheries from time to time of persons having contracted Anthrax 
whilst engaged in slaughtering Animals, or in dressing or otherwise 
handling the Carcasses of Animals. In connection with inquiries 
made under the Diseases of Animals Acts, 1894 to 1903, into out- 
breaks of Anthrax, it appears from the reports of the Board's Inspec- 
tors as regards the outbreaks which occurred in Great Britain during 
the period from the beginning of July to the end of December of last 
year, that as many as twelve person? are known to have contracted 
the disease whilst so employed, and that six of these persons died, 
whilst in one case amputation of the arm became necessary. 

The Board therefore think it desirable to warn persons against 
shedding the blood of an animal which appears to be ill from some 
unknown cause, and also against cutting or handling the carcass or 
skin of any animal which has died suddenly, until careful inquiries 



222 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

have been made with a view to see whether or not any symptoms ' 
of Anthrax had been exhibited during life. Should there appear to 
be any reason to suspect the presence of Anthrax, it is very desirable 
that the slaughter of the animal or the dressing of the carcass should 
not be commenced until steps have been taken to investigate the 
cause of illness or death, and that the owner should be warned of 
the grave risk to human life which might without such investigation 
be incurred. 

If the course above indicated be followed in suspicious or doubtful 
instances, material assistance would thus be rendered to the respective 
Authorities concerned in dealing with this very dangerous disease in 
man and in animals. 

T. H. ELLIOT, 

Secretary. 
Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, 

4 Whitehall Place, London, S.W. 
October 10, 190-5. 

Sheep are most susceptible to anthrax, but cattle are 
frequently infected, and occasionally pigs. Animals suffering 
from anthrax, or suspected to be so suffering, should be dealt 
with under the Anthrax Order of the Local Government 
Board. They are to be killed and buried unopened at a depth 
of not less than 6 feet, the carcass being covered with lime. 
It is obvious that, if the requirements of the law be complied 
with, the body of an animal suffering from anthrax would 
never be exposed for sale. There can be no hesitation, there- 
fore, in condemning the carcass of an infected animal. The 
detection of the disease may be difficult if the spleen cannot be 
examined, as this organ is most markedly affected, becoming 

1 The symptoms of Anthrax may be summarized as follows : The disease 
shows itself suddenly. It is very fatal, usually within forty-eight hours. It does 
not often in the United Kingdom spread with rapidity from animal to animal, but 
it may affect a number of swine at the same time if they have been fed on anthrax 
flesh or organs. A beast which a short time before appeared to be well is found 
dead or in a dying condition. Frequently blood oozes from the nostrils and the 
anus. In cattle there are no typical symptoms, but in horses and pigs the region 
of the throat is often found to be swollen. 

After death the carcass is swollen. Blood is found around the nostrils and 
anus. The muscles are often infiltrated with blood at certain points. The lungs 
and glands are congested. The spleen is very much enlarged ; it is softer and 
darker than normal, and its substance usually resembles tar. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 223 

greatly enlarged, and more or less diffluent, and the contents 
are of a tarry colour and consistency. Extensive haemor- 
rhages occur in all the organs, and especially under the epicar- 
dium. In pigs the spleen may be but little affected, the dis- 
ease in this animal being chiefly characterized by oedema of the 
neck. The bacillus of anthrax is recognized with comparative 
ease and may be obtained from the spleen, or, if this is not 
available, from the hsemorrhagic infiltrations or the blood. 
Ostertag directs attention to the necessity for distinguishing 
between this bacillus and that of certain cadaver bacilli. The 
latter form spores in the carcass which the former never do, 
and are decolourized by Gram's method, whilst the anthrax 
bacilli retain the stain. An instance of human anthrax, 
apparently due to infected meat, is recorded in ' The Lancet,' 
1905, i. p. 875. 

Black-leg* or Quarter-ill is an anthracoid disease affecting 
cattle, in which haemorrhagic effusion takes place into the 
subcutaneous tissues of the hind or fore quarters. Extra- 
vasations are found in the internal organs, and in the blood the 
characteristic bacillus can be demonstrated. Malignant oedema 
is an analogous condition due to a specific organism. Both of 
them are probably communicable to man, and render the flesh 
of the animal unsound. 

Braxy. This is a disease of sheep which is endemic in 
certain localities. In Scotland it occasions annually the loss 
of some 100,000 or more sheep. It is probably of bacillary 
origin and has been confounded with anthrax. Infected sheep 
often die very suddenly. The animal begins to stagger, falls 
down, becomes comatose, and dies. The stomachs are found 
greatly inflamed, with ecchymoses especially in the fourth 
stomach. The flesh rapidly suffers decomposition, w r ith the 
production of a very offensive odour. It is said to be eaten by 
Scotch shepherds. It is very doubtful whether the carcass of 
an infected animal is ever dressed for market. The term 
' braxy ' probably embraces more than one disease causing 
sudden death among sheep. 



224 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Swine-fever. This is an exceedingly infectious disease, 
the occurrence of which has to be notified, and the local 
authority may cause not only the infected animal, but also all 
contacts to be slaughtered, and pay the owner compensation. 
It is due to a bacillus, and runs a course not unlike typhoid 
fever in man. If the animal is killed in the early stage and the 
internal organs removed, there may only be a redness of the 
skin and subcutaneous fat to indicate that the animal has 
suffered from any disease. If the alimentary canal can be 
examined, the large intestines will be found ulcerated, and 
diphtheritic deposits may be found in various parts of the 
alimentary canal from the mouth to the anus. In severe cases 
or in a later stage of the disease the flesh wastes, and may be 
pale or dropsical, and have a disagreeable odour. In Germany the 
flesh may be sold in a cooked condition. If the carcass shows any 
signs of being affected by the disease it should be condemned. 
There is no evidence, however, of the flesh of an infected 
animal being injurious to man, but the bacillus is apparently 
related to the colon group (B. coli, B. enteritidis, B. typhosus, 
and the paratyphoid bacillus), and also to the B. psittacosis, 
all of which are pathogenic to man. 

Swine Erysipelas is said by Loeffler to be due to a bacillus, 
and is usually a rapidly fatal disease. There is no pronounced 
rigor mortis, and the flesh rapidly decomposes, hence carcasses 
rarely, if ever, reach the market. There is no evidence, however, 
of the unwholesomeness of the flesh ; on the contrary, it 
appears to be eaten with entire impunity. The skin is of a 
dark-red hue, as is also the subcutaneous fat. Haemorrhages 
under the serous membranes are common, the spleen is en- 
larged, the kidneys, liver, and heart show signs of degenera- 
tion, and the bacilli may be demonstrated in the blood or 
spleen pulp. The skin eruption affecting swine and known 
as ' diamonds ' is not improbably related to this disease. The 
flesh of an animal suffering from swine erysipelas must be 
considered as unfit for food, unless it were slaughtered at the 
very onset. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 225 

Diphtheria, so called, in calves is apparently caused by a 
streptothrix, and is of an entirely different nature from human 
diphtheria. If the disease is local and the flesh normal in 
appearance the meat need not be condemned. 

Septicaemia, Pysemia, and Sapraemia may arise in con- 
nection with wounds, injury to the freshly torn navel 
cord, parturition, osteomyelitis, and sometimes apparently 
idiopathically. It is unnecessary to describe in detail the 
pathological distinctions of the three conditions, which are 
strictly comparable to those occurring in man. Apart from the 
symptoms during life, the commonest post-mortem appearances 
are petechiae under the serous and mucous membranes and in 
the lymphatic glands, cloudy swelling of the liver, heart, and 
kidneys, and enlargement of many of the lymphatic glands. 
In pysemia, metastatic abscesses may be present. Possibly a 
bacteriological examination of the flesh would prove of service 
in doubtful cases. As a general rule the flesh of such animals 
is to be condemned, though possibly in slight cases of sapraemia, 
where the meat, when kept under observation as indicated 
previously, appears to be normal, the flesh may not necessarily 
be prejudicial to health. 

Rinderpest. This terribly infectious disease occurs in 
epidemics. Cattle suspected of infection are immediately 
slaughtered, and buried or otherwise destroyed. Should an 
infected carcass reach the market, it is consoling to know that 
its consumption would do no harm. Troops have been fed on 
animals suffering from the disease in nearly all stages, and 
without ill effects. 

Pleuro-pneumonia is another very infectious disease of cattle 
which necessitates the slaughter of the animal. So far as is 
known the disease is not communicable to man, and if the 
flesh is not deteriorated, being in all respects normal, it is quite 
unobjectionable and may be passed as wholesome, the lungs 
only being destroyed. It is difficult to recognize the disease in 
its early stage, when the animal merely refuses food and is 
feverish. Later, when the symptoms of pneumonia and 

15 



226 PKESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

pleurisy are well marked, the diagnosis is easy. The lungs 
and pleura exhibit the usual post-mortem appearances. The 
characteristic features are the ' extensive affection of the inter- 
lobular connective tissue, and the presence of inflammatory 
foci of different ages in the pulmonary parenchyma between 
the diseased interlobular connective tissue strands.' l 

Tetanus being a localized infection, the carcass of an 
animal which has been killed while suffering from the disease 
is not likely to infect man. Bleeding is, however, generally 
defective, and the meat of poor keeping quality. 

Cow-pox and Vaccinated Animals. Cow-pox is a trivial 
affection, never leading to the slaughter of the animal, and not 
affecting the value of the flesh for food. The sale of the flesh 
of calves which have been used for the production of lymph 
has given rise to much discussion, sentimental objections being 
raised against the use of such flesh as food. If in a healthy 
condition when slaughtered, the flesh is perfectly wholesome. 
In Germany ' the meat of vaccine calves and bulls in most 
abattoirs is admitted to the market after the removal of the 
cedematous infiltrated subcutis under the point of inoculation. 
No harm from eating such meat has ever been observed.' 2 

The flesh of cows and sheep suffering from pox may possibly 
be inferior if there has been much constitutional disturbance,, 
but there are no grounds for condemning the carcass except 
in the rare cases of ' cadaveric ' or ' gangrenous ' sheep-pox. 

Rabies is extremely rare, and considerable risk of infection 
would be run in dressing such carcasses. The flesh of an 
animal known to have been rabid should be condemned. 

Glanders is almost confined to horses, cats, dogs, and goats, 
but is, of course, transmissible to man. Sheep appear to be 
slightly susceptible. The carcass- of any food animal suffering 
from this disease should be destroyed without skinning. 

Foot-and-Mouth Disease. Cattle (and occasionally pigs) 
suffer from this disease, which generally appears in epidemics. 
It is characterized by the appearance of vesicles around tha 
1 Ostertag, Meat Inspection. * Ibid. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 227 

margin of the tongue, the gums, mucous membrane of the 
cheeks and the nasal septum, and also on the border and cleft 
of the hoofs. The disease often runs a fatal course, and it is 
transmissible to man by direct contact. There is no evidence, 
however, leading us to suspect that the disease may be com- 
municated by the eating of the flesh of an infected animal. It 
suffices, therefore, to destroy the obviously affected parts, but 
to pass the remainder of the carcass provided the disease has 
not caused any deterioration of the flesh. 

Actinomycosis (Plate I.) . One other disease due to infection 
with an organism belonging to the vegetable kingdom, viz. ac- 
tinomycosis, remains for special reference. Although this dis- 
ease can be, by inoculation, transmitted from man to animals 
and from animal to animal, no case of direct transmission by food 
has been recorded, and there is no proof that the consumption 
of the flesh of an infected animal has communicated the disease 
to man. The ray-fungus is by some considered to be a mould, 
but is probably a streptothrix. It has no sheath, and forms 
long and short rods, simple and branched threads, spiral threads 
and coccus-like bodies. In the animal tissues it is characterized 
by the rosette-like arrangement of the threads, and their club- 
like swellings. It is probably introduced into the system, both 
in man and animals, by the sharp awns of barley and other 
cereals which pierce the mucous membrane of the alimentary 
or respiratory tract. 

It affects cattle and pigs chiefly, but occasionally sheep and 
other animals are attacked. The tongue is the most frequent 
seat of this disease (' wooden tongue,' ' cancer'), the lower jaw 
coming next in order of frequency, then the upper jaw ; when 
the skin and subcutaneous tissue are affected, large tumours 
(' wens ') may be formed. The lips, pharynx, larynx, and other 
parts of the head are not uncommonly attacked, but the stomach, 
lungs, liver, and other organs may also be affected, and occa- 
sionally the disease becomes generalized. According to Ostertag 
actinomycosis does not produce suppuration in domesticated 
animals, but ' simply an extensive infiltration of round cells, 



228 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

and, in the neighbouring tissue, giant cells of a more irregular 
shape than in tuberculosis.' Where suppuration occurs in such 
animals he attributes it to a mixed infection with pyogenic 
organisms. The growth becomes surrounded by a thick layer 
of connective tissue, but ulceration may occur. The lymphatic 
glands become affected, but do not suppurate or caseate. The 
disease may be confounded with non-malignant tumours and 
with tuberculosis, but the microscopic examination, revealing 
the presence of the fungus, enables a correct diagnosis to be 
made. In man the ' clubs ' are absent, the growth consisting 
of threads and the coccus form. Pus formation is the rule, 
and the abscesses are apt to burrow in various directions. The 
lungs and abdominal viscera may be invaded, and in such 
cases the diagnosis may be obscure until the pus can be 
examined microscopically. 

In cases of actinomycosis the general feeling in England is 
in favour of condemning the whole carcass, but such an extreme 
measure is perhaps hardly justifiable in early and strictly 
localized cases, if the affected portions are carefully removed. 
In the rare instances in which the disease is generalized the 
whole carcass should certainly be destroyed. On the Continent 
it is customary to remove only the affected portion, and to pass 
the remainder of the carcass. It should be borne in mind, 
however, that secondary deposits are not always easy to 
determine by the naked eye. 

Poultry and Game. The length of time which should elapse 
between slaughter and consumption in the case of poultry and 
game varies very largely with the different species, fowls and 
rabbits especially being liable to cause gastro-intestinal dis- 
turbance if decomposition has set in, whilst in the case of 
pheasants and other game no evil results usually follow in the 
early stages. There are only two important infective diseases 
to which poultry are liable : fowl cholera, and fowl diphtheria. 
The former occurs in chickens, geese, ducks, pigeons, turkeys, 
and pheasants ; it is usually fatal in a few days, or even hours. 
Hsemorrhagic inflammation of the small intestine is found, 



UNSOUND FOOD. MEAT 229 

and occasionally haemorrhage under the pericardium, and 
inflammation in the lung tissue. When the intestines have 
been removed, the cause of death may sometimes be ascertained 
by the presence of dark-blue patches at the lower part of the 
abdomen and on the internal surface of the thighs. If a 
pigeon is inoculated in the breast muscles with the blood of 
the suspected bird, it will probably die within forty-eight 
hours. If the disease is at all advanced it renders the flesh 
unfit for food, but it is apparently not transmissible to man. 
Fowl diphtheria attacks chickens and pigeons, with the 
formation of an inflammatory membrane in the mouth, 
pharynx, respiratory passages, or alimentary tract, and occa- 
sionally on the surface of the eyes. Haemorrhages under the 
pericardium may be present, and the flesh should be considered 
unfit for food. The disease is, however, quite distinct from 
human diphtheria. 



CHAPTEE XIX 

UNSOUND FOOD (continued). ANIMAL PARASITES 

THE number of animal parasites infecting animals used for 
human food is very considerable, but fortunately few of these 
are capable of also infecting man. The others are of no 
importance, provided care is taken not to confound them with 
parasites capable of directly infecting man, or of indirectly 
affecting him after a change of host. In the following pages 
a description is given of all the parasites capable of infecting 
human beings directly or indirectly, so far as our present 
knowledge extends, and where a harmless parasite is likely to 
be confounded with a dangerous one, the points requiring 
attention to effect a differential diagnosis are recorded. 

Trichinosis. This disease is believed to have been intro- 
duced into Europe by the grey rat, which came from Asia 
about 1770, and which is peculiarly liable to infection by the 
Trichina spiralis, as many as 100 per cent, in certain localities 
being found to be attacked. Others believe that the worm was 
introduced earlier in the eighteenth century by pigs imported 
from China. It was not, however, until 1860 that it became 
known that the disease was communicable to man, though in 
1835 Sir James Paget had recognized the worm in the cadaver 
of an Italian ; but it is probable that many cases of trichinosis 
had previously occurred, the patients being considered to be 
suffering from rheumatism, rheumatic fever, or typhoid fever. 
The cases recorded in this country are very few, but in 
France, Denmark, and Poland localized epidemics have oc- 
curred, and in Germany extensive outbreaks have frequently 
been recorded, hundreds of persons being attacked, with a 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 231 

mortality rate of from less than 1 to over 30 per cent. This 
disease is invariably produced by the eating of infected 
pork, of sausages, or of similar prepared foods containing 
pork. 

The cause of trichinosis is a nematode worm, the adult 
male of which is from 1-2 to 1-5 mm. long, and the adult 
female about 3'5 mm. They are ovo-viviparous, and develop 
in the stomach or intestine when the envelope of the embryo 
has been dissolved by the gastric juice. In the intestine 
further development takes place, the sexual organs appearing. 
After copulation the male disappears, being digested or ejected, 
and the young trichinae are born about the seventh day after 
infection. These next make their appearance in the voluntary 
muscles (Plates I. and II.) and certain other tissues, but how 
they get there is a disputed question. Some affirm that they 
penetrate the walls of the intestines and travel along the con- 
nective tissue and spaces, but this seems very improbable, as 
the embryos at first possess no boring apparatus, and are said 
never to be found in the intestinal contents. Graham found 
that the adult trichinae make their way into the interior of the 
Lieberkuhn's gland, and that the embryos discharged there 
find their way into the chyle vessels, and are thence carried 
into the blood, and by the blood to the muscles. The evidence 
which he adduces appears to prove conclusively that the old 
migration theory is quite incorrect. The female parent, having 
produced her thousands of embryos, ultimately dies and is 
apparently voided. About the end of the third week after the 
reception of the worms into the stomach the invasion of the 
muscles is complete. The embryos lie within the sheath of 
sarcolemma, and cause a certain amount of irritation leading 
to an increase of connective tissue, and the formation of a 
capsulated cyst. The embryo assumes the larval stage, coils 
itself up, and becomes quiescent. Fat cells may develop 
around the cyst, and at a later stage the cyst itself may 
become calcified. The encysted trichinae survive a temperature 
much below freezing point, and after an infected ham has been 



232 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

pickled or smoked they retain their vitality for many months, 
and may infect any susceptible animal into which they are 
introduced. The temperature necessary for their destruction 
is unknown. It has been stated by some observers that a 
temperature of 50 C. maintained for a few minutes is sufficient 
to kill them, whilst others affirirrthat they resist a temperature 
of 80 C. Many outbreaks have followed the use of boiled 
infected pork, hence it is evident that very thorough cooking 
is necessary to destroy those in the centre of a joint. It is 
very probable that it is to the more careful and thorough 
cooking of pork practised in this country that our practical 
immunity from this disease is due. 

The symptoms of trichinosis in man vary at different 
stages of the infection. Within a few hours of the ingestion 
of the infected material there is more or less intestinal 
irritation, often resulting in vomiting and diarrhoea. About 
the end of the third week, fever ensues with severe muscular 
pain, oedema of the eyelids, &c. At a later date, as the larvae 
become encapsuled, the symptoms subside. When death occurs, 
it is usually from the intense infection of the diaphragm and 
intercostal muscles. The disease may be confounded with 
typhoid fever, rheumatism, cholera, and beri-beri. 

The principal muscles infected, and which ought therefore 
to be examined for this parasite, are the diaphragm, the 
muscles of the larynx and tongue, and to a less extent the 
abdominal and intercostal muscles. The cysts lie with their 
long axes parallel to the direction of the fibres. The only 
method of identifying trichinae with certainty is by a micro- 
scopical examination, a magnification of 40 diameters being 
ample. The addition of dilute acetic acid to the muscle 
renders the cyst and worm coiled up therein clearer, or the 
sections may be immersed for a few minutes in liquor potassae 
to make the muscle fibres translucent. The pig is the only 
animal used for food in which trichinae have been found, and 
any carcass infected is unfit for food and should be un- 
hesitatingly condemned. 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 233 

Tapeworms. These animals belong to the natural order 
Cestoda, and inhabit the intestinal canal of vertebrate animals. 
Twelve species are known which infest man, but most of them 
so rarely that only four need consideration. They are the 
Taenia mediocanellata, Tsenia solium, Taenia echinococcus, and 
Bothriocephalus latus. 

Taenia mediocanellata (Plate III.). This is one of the 
commonest and largest tapeworms infesting man, and is very 
widely distributed. In countries where cattle are badly tended, 
and where the inhabitants consume imperfectly cooked beef, 
infection is very common. It is alleged that practically every 
native in Abyssinia is infected, and that in North-west India 
a large proportion of the natives suffer from the presence of 
this tapeworm. In more civilized communities it is far less 
common, and in this country it is but rarely seen, though 
when a tapeworm is met with in England, it is usually of this 
variety. The worm, when fully developed, is from 4 to 
8 metres (13 to 26 feet) in length, and possesses over 
1,200 proglottides. The head is pear-shaped, and about 1-5 
to 2 mm. broad at the widest part. It has neither rostellum 
nor booklets, but it possesses four suckers. The eggs are very 
minute (0'03 mm.), and each contains an embryo armed with 
six booklets ; the shells are thick and striated. Alter entering 
the host, usually a bovine animal, the covering of the egg is 
digested, and the embryos find their way into the voluntary 
muscles, where small oval cysts about 1 to 2 mm. up to 1 cm. 
in length are developed (fig. 2). Occasionally these are also 
found in the lungs, liver, and brain. A capsule is formed 
round the cyst (cysticercus), and within the latter is developed 
the immature cestode, which consists of a caudal bladder in 
which the head is invaginated. This head is unarmed, but 
possesses four sucking discs. These cysticerci have not been 
found in man. 

About sixty days after the consumption of infected beef, 
proglottides of the tapeworm may be found in the stools. 

The Cysticercus bovis is said by Perronicito to be killed at 



234 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

a temperature of 45 C., but probably a temperature of 65 
would be required to ensure safety. Thorough cooking, 
roasting or boiling would therefore destroy the parasite. If 
infected beef is cut up and placed in brine, or if brine is 
injected, the cysticerci perish in less than fourteen days. The 
time, however, depends upon the mass of the meat, and on the 
strength of the pickling solution. It is more important to 
note that experiments conducted in Berlin, Dresden, and else- 
where l prove that the cysticerci perish if the meat is kept in a 
cold store for three weeks. The cold is merely to preserve the 
meat from decomposition, since the cysticerci die at ordinary 
temperatures within the period named. Cold, however, is not 
without effect, as by cooling to 8 or 10 C. the worm is killed 
in about four days. The Cysticercus bovis, or beef bladder 
worm, must be sought for in the masticatory muscles, the heart, 
the tongue, the cervical muscles, the muscular portions of the 
diaphragm, and the intercostal and the thoracic muscles, the 
actual situation of the cysts being the connective tissue 
between the muscle fibres. They vary in size, from a pin's 
head to that of a pea, and are frequently surrounded by in- 
flammatory tissue. The inflammatory process may be suffi- 
cient to cause the death of the parasite, and may end in 
caseation, calcification, or suppuration. The cysts should be 
distinguished from those of the harmless Cysticercus tenui- 
collis. The latter are frequently found in sheep, pigs, and 
cattle, and are the larval form of Taenia marginata of the dog. 
The cysts vary from the size of a pea to that of a man's fist, 
and occur most commonly immediately under the peritoneum 
and pleura, being situated in the underlying viscera, the 
omentum, mesentery, and occasionally the abdominal muscles 
and diaphragm. The head of the larval worm is armed with 
suckers and a double row of booklets, whilst that of Cysti- 
cercus bovis has no booklets, but possesses four suckers. In 
both kinds of cyst the head is normally invaginated. 

It is customary in this country to condemn a carcass of 

1 Ostertag, Meat Inspection. 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 235 

' measly beef,' and this is no doubt the safest procedure. 
Apart from the presence of the parasite, however, the muscles 
often assume a watery character when the invasion is extensive, 
rendering the meat quite unfit for food. 

Tsenia solium. The adult worm as found in the human 
intestines is from 8 to 12 feet or more in length. The head 
is very small, however, only about 1 mm. in diameter, but 
bears a double circle of booklets, twenty-six or twenty-eight in 
number, surrounding the rostellum, and four prominent suckers. 
The fertile proglottides when ripe are discharged, usually with 
the faeces, and the ova, which are spherical, about O03 mm. 
in diameter, and surrounded by a thick brownish shell with a 
striated appearance, are transferred to the stomach of a suit- 
able host, especially the pig (possibly also man). The shell is 
dissolved in the stomach, and the embryo, armed with six 
booklets, migrates in some way into the tissues of its host, and 
more especially into the connective tissue between the muscle 
fibres. Here, in the course of a few weeks, it forms a deli- 
cate, transparent, elliptical cyst, containing a single, spirally 
coiled, invaginated head (Plate III.) The head possesses 
twenty-six to twenty-eight booklets, suckers, and rostellum, 
thus resembling that of the adult worm. The pig is far more 
commonly infected than any other animal, and these small 
cysts or cysticerci are known as Cysticercus cellulosaa, or 
hog bladder worms. They are from 8 to 10 mm. in length, 
and the width is about half the length. Pork infected with 
this bladder worm is spoken of as 'measly.' The consumption 
of such meat in an imperfectly cooked condition results in the 
development of the Taenia solium in the intestines. The cysti- 
cercus is killed at a temperature of 49 C., and by prolonged 
pickling in brine. It is more resistant than the ' beef cysti- 
cercus,' since after cold storage, even for a period of six weeks, 
the meat may retain its infective properties. Thorough cooking, 
however, renders it harmless. Infection with Taenia solium is 
not nearly so common in Great Britain as in Germany, and in 
the latter country it is chiefly in the north, where more 



236 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

partially cooked or uncooked meat is eaten, that the infection 
is prevalent. The presence of this tapeworm rarely gives rise 
to any serious disturbance, but the general nutrition may be 
impaired and an semi a supervene. There is, however, a further 
danger, since man is also liable to infection by the cysticercus 
through swallowing the eggs of the tsenia, or possibly from 
some form of auto-infection. The cysticercus develops in the 
brain (cortex or covering), the eye, the heart, and other organs, 
rarely in the liver, and only occasionally under the cutis. The 
symptoms produced vary with the part or parts affected. If 
the eye, blindness may result ; if the heart, functional dis- 
turbance or even valvular disease; if the lungs, asthmatic 
symptoms ; if the brain, paralytic or epileptic conditions ; and 
so on according to the organ invaded. 

Cysticercus cellulosse, or the hog bladder worm, resembles 
the beef bladder worm in size ; the cysts are usually located 
in the abdominal and lumbar muscles, the muscular portions 
of the diaphragm, the tongue, the heart, the muscles of 
mastication, the intercostal and cervical muscles, and the 
gracilis and sternal musculature. They are also to be found 
in the brain and eye, the lymphatic glands, and the panniculus 
adiposus. It is only in very extreme cases that the cysts 
occur in the lungs, liver, and spleen. The disease can some- 
times be diagnosed during life by a careful examination and 
palpation of the tongue. The cysts may undergo similar 
degenerative changes to those of the beef worm, and they 
have been found occasionally in sheep, dogs, and deer. In 
cases of extensive invasion the muscles become greyish-red 
and watery. The head resembles the scolex of the harmless 
Cysticercus tenuicollis, to which reference has already been 
made ; the cysts of the latter, however, occur only under 
the serous coverings of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the 
abdominal muscles, and the diaphragm, and the booklets are 
more numerous, varying from thirty-two to forty in number. 

Measly pork being more dangerous than measly beef, it is 
the rule to condemn infected carcasses. In Prussia, however, 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 237 

the fat obtained by rendering or cooking may be utilized 
unconditionally, and the lean meat may be consumed in the 
butcher's own family, after having been cut up and boiled 
under supervision. 

Bothriocephalus latus. This tapeworm is of enormous 
length, 6 to 16 metres (20 to 50 feet), and may possess 3,000 to 
4,000 proglottides (Plate III.). The eggs are extruded before 
the embryo is formed, and have to lie in water for some time 
until the six-hooked embryo is developed. In shape they are 
oval (0'05 by 0'035 mm.), and are provided with an oper- 
culum. The embrj'o is ciliated, and when set free swims about 
in the water, till it gains access to fish, and finally becomes 
encysted in the viscera and muscles. The larva (fig. 8), 
when fully developed, is 1 to 2-5 cm. in length and 2 to 3 mm. 
broad, and has the head and tail usually invaginated. These 
larvae, which are not enveloped in any definite capsule, have 
been found in pike, eels, trout, grayling, salmon, and other 
fish. When the raw, smoked, or imperfectly cooked infected 
fish is eaten by man, or by dogs, cats, and certain other 
animals, the tapeworm rapidly develops. The chief centres of 
infection in Europe are the provinces bordering on the Baltic 
and the districts surrounding the Swiss lakes. In Japan, 
where fish is largely consumed, it is exceedingly prevalent. 
In this country very few cases occur, and doubtless the patients 
become infected abroad. The symptoms caused by the pre- 
sence of this tapeworm in the human intestine resemble those 
described under Taenia solium. Any fish in which the larvae 
are found should certainly be seized and destroyed. Human 
infection by the larva does not appear to have been recognized. 

Echinococcus or Hydatid Disease is very widely distributed, 
but it is only in Iceland that any considerable proportion of 
the population is infected. This is no doubt due to the large- 
number of dogs which are kept in proximity to the huts of the 
Esquimaux. In England comparatively few cases occur, and 
it is believed that in Scotland the disease is even rarer. It is 
not uncommon in the Australian bush. 



238 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

Kuchenmeister in 1851 first proved that the bladder worms- 
of certain animals were the larval stage of tapeworms, and Von 
Siebold demonstrated that the Taenia echinococcus (Plate III.) 
of the dog was developed from the echinococcus c} r sts of 
domestic animals. A dog infested with this tapeworm dis- 
charges ripe terminal proglottides with the faeces. These soon 
decay, and the ova being liberated may gain access to a 
susceptible animal, such as the pig, or to man, by becoming 
attached to garden produce, or by finding their way into the 
water supply. The envelope of the ova being dissolved by the 
digestive juices, the embryos are set free, and in some way gain 
access to the liver and other organs, and come to rest. Here 
they develop slowly. According to Verco and Stirling, 1 they at 
first form ' solid spherical bodies measuring 0'25 to O35 mm. in 
diameter, and bear a striking resemblance to a mammalian egg : 
that is to say, a thick, homogeneous, transparent, and elastic 
cuticle or capsule (ectocyst, Huxley) encloses coarsely granular 
contents, as the zone pellucida encloses the granules of the 
yolk. In the course of subsequent development the proscolex 
increases in size, the external envelope becomes distinctly 
laminated and the contents more transparent, owing to a partial 
liquefaction. Fluid has, in fact, begun to accumulate in the 
interior, and the solid mass has become a vesicle with a gradually 
increasing quantity of liquid. With comparatively slight 
increase in the size of the vesicle, an internal lining membrane 
appears upon the inner surface of the cuticle. This constitutes 
the germinal or parenchymatous layer (endocyst, Huxley). . 
The lamination of the cuticle becomes more marked, and remains 
always a conspicuous and characteristic feature ; its thickness 
increases with age. Meanwhile, even at this early stage, the 
presence of the growing organism, like other foreign bodies, 
excites changes in the tissues which harbour it ; thus ... an 
enveloping capsule of connective tissue is formed, bounding 
the parasite externally. . . Compared with other forms in the 
bladder stage, that of Taenia echinococcus undergoes relatively 

1 Allbutt's System of Medicine, vol. ii. 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 239 

slow growth ; but even when no more than 15 to 20 mm. in 
diameter (Leuckart), or sometimes in our experience consider- 
ably less, an important development may be already in progress, 
which still further distinguishes this proscolex from other 
varieties of bladder worm : this is the formation of numerous 
heads or scolices.' 

Two forms of echinococcus cyst are found in food animals,, 
probably derived from distinct though similar species of Taenia 
echinococcus. The commonest cyst is the Echinococcus poly- 
morphus or unilocularis (Plates III. and IV.). In this form 
there are one or more spherical single-celled cysts, surrounded 
by connective tissue, which may be sterile, or may contain a 
number of ' daughter ' and ' granddaughter ' cysts or brood 
capsules, developed from the parenchymatous layer lining the 
mother cyst. In food animals the cyst is usually non-fertile, 
though in sheep it is not uncommon to meet with a number 
of brood capsules in the interior. Echinococcus cysts of this 
unilocular character are to be found in sheep, cattle, and hogs, 
and occasionally in goats. The liver, lungs, and spleen are 
the usual sites, but the cysts also occur in the heart, kidneys,, 
peritoneum, marrow cavities of the bone, lymphatic glands,, 
udders and muscles. They may within limits be of almost 
any size, and not infrequently undergo inflammation, caseation,. 
and even calcification. They are usually surrounded by an 
adventitious capsule of inflammatory origin. 

The other kind of echinococcus cyst is the multilocular or 
alveolar form : in this species daughter cysts are formed 
outside the mother cysts by constriction, and these in turn are 
furnished with similar reproductive powers. The daughter 
vesicles become separated from the primary cyst by connective 
tissue, and, in consequence, the individual vesicles are of no 
great size, but the whole growth is capable of almost unlimited 
peripheral expansion, and has some resemblance to an acinous 
gland ; it is from this appearance that it derives its name,. 
Echinococcus alveolaris. This species is comparatively un- 
common, and chiefly aft'ects the liver of bovines, though it. 



240 PKESBEVATIVES IN FOOD 

has been found in sheep and hogs. In the liver it resembles 
actinomycotic granulations, the central portion being usually 
caseous and even calcareous, whilst, when it affects the 
structures beneath the pleura, it is almost indistinguishable to 
the naked eye from perlsucht. On microscopical examination, 
however, the cysts at the periphery of the growth will be 
found to be echinococcal in nature. 

Unless a cyst is sterile or has undergone secondary changes, 
the fluid when examined under the low power of a microscope 
will show a large number of scolices. They should be looked 
for in the liver, lung, and spleen, kidneys, and lymphatic 
glands. The smallest cysts will easily be visible to the naked 
eye, but their character may not be immediately recognizable. 
The larger ones present no difficulty, but the smaller may 
resemble those of Cysticercus bovis or cellulosae. In the latter, 
however, each cyst contains only a single cestode head, instead 
of the numerous scolices attached to an echinococcus cyst, and 
the situation and character of the contents should be sufficient 
to make the distinction easy. Even when caseation has 
occurred the cysts are distinguished from tubercle by the 
lamellar arrangement of the wall, and the freedom from 
infection of the lymphatic glands. 

Any organ containing echinococcus cysts should be care- 
fully destroyed, to avoid the danger of infecting dogs. The 
flesh of the infected animal, if normal, may be passed as being 
wholesome. 

The Echinococcus veterinorum (Plate IV.) sometimes found 
in the encysted form in the liver of the ox is harmless to 
man, nevertheless such an infected organ is better destroyed. 

Very many other tapeworms infesting animals are known, but 
with very rare exceptions the above are the only ones affecting 
man, and therefore requiring special consideration. Animals 
infested with other forms may be considered as not endanger- 
ing the health of those consuming the flesh, but few people 
would care to eat the flesh of animals containing the larvae of 
any kind of tapeworm. Cysticerci are often found also in 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 241 

rabbits, hares, &c. (Plate IV.), but as they are apparently 
quite harmless to man they are rarely sought for, and if 
observed the animals could not legally be seized. 

Other parasites which, whilst not necessarily infecting man, 
may cause the flesh or organs of an animal to be unfit for 
human food, are Distoma (liver-flukes), various round worms, 
Pentastomum tsenioides, and various forms of protozoa. 

Distoma. The flukes are trematode worms, and two of 
them, Distoma hepaticum and Distoma lanceolatum (Plate V.), 
are important on account of their frequent occurrence in 
cattle and sheep. Occasionally they are found in pigs, and in 
rare instances they have been found in man. The ovum gives 
rise to an embryo, which, when deposited on a suitable pasture, 
is believed to attach itself to a water-snail, within the body 
of which it undergoes a number of developmental changes 
(sporocyst, redia, cercaria), the final form passing out of its 
intermediate host and becoming encysted on a blade of grass, 
until it enters the stomach of a sheep, when the fluke 
develops. 

The Distoma hepaticum is a flat, obovate worm, from 15 to 
40 mm. long and 4 to 12 mm. wide. It has an oral sucker 
and buccal orifice. Behind the latter is the ventral sucker and 
the genital aperture. The surface is covered with fine scale- 
like spines projecting backwards. Flukes are chiefly found in 
the bile ducts, but may migrate in numbers into the lungs. 
In sheep they give rise to the disease known as ' sheep rot,' the 
symptoms of which are emaciation, dropsy, and enlargement 
of the liver. The disease is often fatal, and chiefly attacks 
flocks pastured on marsh land where water-snails abound. 

Distoma lanceolatum is smaller than the D. hepaticum, 
and, as its name indicates, it is lanceolate in outline. In 
sheep it, as a rule, gives rise to no serious illness. Any organ 
at all extensively affected by the parasites of this group is 
usually destroyed, and in the case of advanced invasion by liver- 
flukes it may be necessary to condemn the whole carcass owing 
to the oedematous condition of the flesh which ensues. There 

16 



242 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

is usually no difficulty in recognizing their presence ; they lie 
in the bile ducts, which become enlarged, the walls being 
thickened and their lining membranes ' gritty ' to the touch. 
The thickening of the bile ducts is often apparent on the 
surface of the liver, giving rise to streaks and lines. 

The flukes may occasionally be found in the lungs. 

Many other distomes have been found in animals, but they 
rarely occur in this country. A fluke has been detected in the 
muscle of the pig, but on a few occasions only. 

Round Worms. The Echinorynchus gigas, a round worm 
of enormous length which infects the pig, may cause inflam- 
mation of the bowels or even peritonitis. The ascaridae are 
often found' in abundance in the intestines and may cause 
emaciation. Occasionally they penetrate into the bile duct, 
and may then give rise to jaundice. Strongylus contortus, or 
the palisade worm, lives in the fourth stomach of the sheep 
(and goat), deriving its support from the blood of its host ; 
hence young animals may become emaciated from the presence 
of an abnormal number of these worms. Other species of 
strongylus infect sheep and cattle, some being located in the 
stomach, other varieties selecting the lungs. Strongylus 
paradoxus is very common in the lungs of pigs, the invasion 
usually being restricted to the bases, 1 causing bronchitis and 
bronchiectasis. The inflammatory reaction caused by the 
presence of strongylidse in the lungs may give rise to an 
appearance resembling tuberculosis. The glands, however, 
will be free from tubercle, and a microscopical examination 
will make the diagnosis clear. 

Pentastomes (N.O. Arachnoidea) are only of interest on 
account of the larvae, which, after becoming encysted, may 
caseate and resemble tubercle, especially when the lymphatic 
glands are affected. They are found in the viscera of cattle, 
sheep, pigs and other animals, and are flat, white, translucent 
bodies about 4 to 5 mm. long and 1'2 mm. broad, having 
about 80 segments, each furnished with numerous fine 
1 Ostertag, op. cit., p. 414. 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 243 

bristles. At each side of the oral aperture are two other 
apertures, from which minute claws protrude. The larva may 
become surrounded with pus cells, or caseate, or calcify. In 
the liver and spleen the larvae are encapsuled, but apparently 
not so in the lymphatic glands. Butchers' dogs are chiefly 
infested with this larval pentastome, the sexually mature form 
of which is 8 to 20 mm. long, and occurs in the nasal cavities 
of the dog, horse, and other animals. The larval form has 
frequently been found in man, doubtless derived from eggs 
deposited in the faeces of dogs. Apparently its presence 
produces no recognizable symptoms. 

The larvae of the Pentastoma denticulatum (Plate V.) may 
be sought for in the mesenteric glands of cattle, sheep, and 
pigs, where they form yellowish green or grey nodules, varying 
in size from a millet seed to a, pea. A low power of the micro- 
scope is necessary for identification. Even when the foci have 
become caseous the claws may be discovered ; though some- 
what resembling the booklets of cysticerci, they are easily 
distinguished therefrom. If found in the mesenteric glands, 
the liver and lungs should be examined, or, preferably, the 
whole of the viscera should be carefully destroyed. The flesh 
of the animal is not affected. 

Protozoa. Coccidia, myxosporidia, sarcosporidia and 
hematosporidia are protozoa, certain species of which infest 
animals. Coccidia are unicellular organisms chiefly affecting 
epithelium. The C. oviforme (Plate V.) is frequently found in 
the lining of the bile ducts of rabbits, and has been detected in 
the liver of man. This or an allied form also attacks the liver 
of pigs. To the naked eye the appearance resembles tubercle, 
but by squeezing some of the fluid from the organ infected 
upon a slide, or by cutting sections, the coccidia can readily 
be distinguished under the microscope. Each organism is 
surrounded by a capsule oval in shape, and with a double 
contour ; the length varies from 30-40/A and the breadth 
from 15-20//,. C. perforans appears to attack the mucous 
membrane of the intestines of sheep and calves. Another 



244 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

species is believed to be the cause of red dysentery, a disease 
which invades young cattle in certain parts of Switzerland. 
Chicken-pox of fowls, a disease of the mucous membrane and 
general integument of the head and neck, leading to wart-like 
growths and diphtheroid membranous formations, is probably 
caused by coccidia. Myxosporidia give rise to tumours on the 
bodies of fish, the spores becoming surrounded by fibrous cysts. 
The so-called Miescher's sacs (Plate V.), which consist of 
small membranous sacs containing round or oval cells, and 
often found within the striated fibres of the skeletal muscles of 
the pig, sheep, and other animals, are regarded as sarcosporidia. 
The sacs vary from O04 to 0'5 mm. in length and from O006 
to 0*4 mm. in breadth, and are often found calcified. They 
are exceedingly common in the pig, and are chiefly of interest 
on account of the ease with which they may be confounded 
with trichinae. So far as is known their presence has no 
significance, and does not render the flesh unwholesome. The 
organs of animals infested by coccidia or myxosporidia should 
be destroyed. Hematosporidia are microscopic protozoa found 
in the red blood corpuscles of the animals suffering from Texas 
fever. They are introduced into the blood by means of ticks. 
The flesh of an animal suffering from this disease would 
probably be quite unfit for human consumption. 

Tpypanosomata are flagellate infusoria. In the case of 
Nagana, so common in South Africa, the parasite is introduced 
into the blood by the bite of the tsetse fly. They are two or 
three times as long as a red blood corpuscle, fish-like in form, 
and actively motile. Infected animals either quickly succumb, 
or die after some months in an emaciated condition. Such 
animals are often slaughtered and appear to be eaten with 
impunity. Other examples of trypanosomiasis are furnished 
by Surra disease and piroplasmosis. 

In the accounts given of the various diseases which may 
render the flesh of animals unfit for human consumption, the 
parts most likely to be affected and more especially requiring 
examination have been indicated. Particles selected for 



UNSOUND FOOD. ANIMAL PAEASITES 245 

microscopical examination should be dissected out, placed in 
glycerine and examined under a magnifying power of about 
100 diameters. If this fails to show the structure when gently 
pressed between the slide and cover slip, the particles may be 
treated with warm 5 per cent, solution of caustic potash, or 
with glacial acetic acid. Where there is much fat a preliminary 
treatment with ether is desirable. After treatment the particles 
can be mounted in glycerine. When sausage or potted meat is 
being examined very thin slices should be taken from different 
parts, cleared with ether, alkali or acetic acid, and mounted in 
glycerine. 



CHAPTEK XX 

UNSOUND FOOD (continued). FISH 

CASES of food poisoning due to fish, or of disease of any kind 
communicated by fish, are comparatively rare in this country. 
During recent years, however, many cases of typhoid fever 
have been traced to the consumption of shell-fish taken from 
polluted sources, and it has been suggested that other fish may 
be specifically infected, and if imperfectly cleansed and cooked, 
be capable of causing typhoid fever. On two occasions within 
recent years limited outbreaks of this fever have been attri- 
buted to the consumption of fried fish, but on neither occasion 
was it possible to say how the fish became infected. 

As already mentioned, the larval form of Bothriocephalus 
latus is parasitic in certain fish, and is capable of giving rise to 
the adult tapeworm in man. Fortunately such cases in this 
country are rare. 

The chief class of disease, however, caused by the consump- 
. tion of fish is that generally known as ptomaine poisoning. 
Brieger has separated trimethylamine, dirnethylamine, methyl- 
amine, and the alkaloidal bodies neuridine, cadaverine, and 
putrescine from decomposing fish, all of which are poisonous 
in varying degree, and possibly to the formation of some of 
these bodies may be ascribed the toxic symptoms produced 
by fish which is not perfectly fresh ; but the subject of poison- 
ing by such products of decomposition will be dealt with in a 
separate chapter. It will suffice to say here that the symptoms 
produced by decomposing fish are similar to those induced by 
flesh under similar circumstances, but are more frequently 
associated with a rash, generally urticarial in character, and 



UNSOUND FOOD. FISH 247 

frequently accompanied by intense irritation. The rash may 
subsequently be followed by desquamation, or desquamation 
may occur without any rash being noticed. 1 

Stale fish is notoriously liable to cause nausea, vomiting, and 
diarrhosa, but fortunately the odour of fish which is becoming 
' stale ' is usually so pronounced that the condition is easily recog- 
nizable. The early signs of decomposition, besides alteration in 
smell, are loss of brilliancy in colour, excessive drooping of the 
tail when the fish is held in the hand, loss of sheen in the eyes, 
cloudiness of the cornea, pallor of the gills (these may occa- 
sionally be painted with blood by an unscrupulous vendor), 
softness of the muscles which pit on pressure, and looseness of 
the scales. In stale fish the appearance of the eyes may be 
fraudulently improved by the introduction, behind the eye-ball, 
of a pointed piece of wood. This increases the tension of the 
eye-ball and pushes it forward. Fresh fish will sink in water, 
but when decomposition has set in they will float. During the 
spawning season fish are said to be naturally flabby and to be 
unfit for human food ; and, according to Andrews, the livers of 
otherwise wholesome fish have been known to give rise, when 
eaten, to severe gastro-intestinal disturbance, followed shortly 
by a red rash, and later on by desquamation. 

The odour of decomposition can best be detected in the 
gills, and if this odour is pronounced the fish cannot be said to 
be fit for human consumption. 

It is not so easy to tell by external appearance when shell- 
.fish begin to be unfit for food. In the case of lobsters and 
crayfish the tail remains curled beneath the body so long as the 
fish is fresh, and when sliced, the fish should have its character- 
istic odour. Crabs must be opened so that the odour of the 
contents of the carapace may be ascertained, and unless 
perfectly sweet they should be condemned. 

Cockles, mussels, and oysters should have their shells firmly 
closed when taken out of water, and if in water the open shell 
should close when touched. When a marked proportion of the 
1 Lancet, 1904, i. p. 1,653. 



248 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

shells show a tendency to gape, and the shells of others are easily 
separated, the batch should be considered as unsound and unfit 
for food. In such cases the bodies of the fish will be found to be 
unusually soft, and to have acquired an odour different from 
that of a fresh fish. 

When in a fresh and healthy condition the winkle is not 
readily detached from its shell. If easily detachable, and 
having an unpleasant odour, the batch is probably unfit for food 
and should not be exposed for sale. 

Occasionally oysters are exhibited for sale the branchia and 
labial palps of which have a green colour. Oysters from 
diverse sources develop this colour under certain unknown 
conditions, whilst in some localities the oysters are almost 
invariably thus coloured. They are usually spoken of as green- 
bearded, and regarded as unfit for food, but this opinion is 
probably erroneous, as on parts of the French coast the oysters 
are not considered fit for the market until they have become 
green. It is not at all certain that this ' greening ' is always 
due to the same cause. In some cases it is apparently derived 
from a pigment allied to chlorophyll, whilst in others it may 
be due to copper. Thorpe has certainly shown that the green 
oysters of Cornwall contain more of this metal than the 
colourless ones. It may, however, be that a trace of copper in 
the water over the layings helps to fix the green colouring of 
the algae upon which the mollusc feeds. The green Falmouth 
oysters were found by Thorpe to contain O023 grain of copper 
each, whilst the white variety only contained 0*0062 grain. 
Whatever the cause of the greening, there is no reason for 
regarding such oysters as unwholesome. 

Until recently neither oysters nor cockles had received 
much attention as possible causes of ill-health amongst those 
who consumed them, whilst mussels appear to have been 
looked upon as a dangerous article of food from time im- 
memorial. The symptoms of mussel poisoning vary so much 
that it is doubtful whether all the cases of illness following the 
eating of mussels are due to one and the same cause. Possibly 



UNSOUND FOOD. FISH 249 

when polluted by sewage, or when undergoing incipient putre- 
faction, they may give rise to gastro-intestinal disturbance, 
vomiting and diarrhosa, as in the case of other shell-fish ; but some 
other cause must be assigned for the illness produced by fresh 
mussels, an illness unlike that caused by other shell-fish, and 
almost consistent with that of poisoning by curare. In these 
cases, the diarrhosa, vomiting, and epigastric pain are followed 
by an urticarial rash, swelling of the tongue and fauces, together 
with swelling of the eyelids and symptoms of coryza. There 
may be great prostration, tingling of the lips, dryness of the 
throat, loss of muscular co-ordination or even complete 
paralysis. Death not unfrequently ensues, the mind remaining 
clear to the end. In some epidemics diarrhoaa has been en- 
tirely absent, the abdomen being greatly distended and tym- 
panitic. In a few instances mussels from polluted sources are 
believed to have caused typhoid fever, but the evidence is not 
as conclusive as in the case of oysters and cockles. One of the 
earliest recorded outbreaks of mussel poisoning occurred at 
Leith in 1827, when some thirty persons were attacked, two of 
whom subsequently died. A dog and a cat which had partaken 
of the mussels were also affected. The shell-fish had been 
detached from the dock gates, and Dr. Christison evidently 
thought the poisonous effects might be due to copper, as he 
examined the mussel from the stomach of one of the patients 
for that metal, but was unable to detect it. In 1885 an out- 
break occurred at Wilhelmshaven, a number of persons who 
had eaten mussels taken from the bottom of two vessels 
anchored in the port being attacked, four dying. The illness 
commenced nineteen hours after the mussels were eaten, and 
some animals which had been fed on the same mussels quickly 
succumbed. It was from the livers of these mussels that 
Brieger isolated a ptomaine which he named mytilotoxine, 
from the name of the edible mussel, Mytilus edulis. Later 
Dutestre found that the alkaloid extracted from the liver of 
poisonous mussels had properties similar to those of curare. 
Dr. Bulstrode, in his report on oysters and other shell-fish 



250 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

('L.G.B. Eeport,' 1894-5), referring to these and other re- 
corded outbreaks, discusses their possible cause. The popu- 
lar impression that the poison is contained in the branchiae or 
gills is disproved by the fact that mussels, from which the 
gills have been removed, have caused symptoms of poisoning. 
The ' copper ' theory is likewise untenable, and there is no 
evidence to prove that the poison is only produced during the 
spawning season. It seems probable that mussels are capable 
of causing two distinct forms of poisoning, one due to the 
development within the animal, possibly by bacteria, of a 
ptomaine, mytilotoxine, the other due to the presence of 
bacteria derived from sewage-polluted water, exactly as with 
sewage-polluted oysters and cockles. 

The first outbreak of disease attributed to oysters of which 
we can find any record is one which occurred in France as far 
back as 1816. Cases of illness occurred in several towns 
following upon the consumption of oysters taken from a laying 
exposed to gross pollution. In 1880 Sir C. Cameron attributed 
some cases of typhoid fever to the eating of sewage-polluted 
oysters, and in 1893 Dr. Bulstrode expressed his conviction 
that the distribution of shell-fish from Cleethorpes and Grimsby 
had been concerned in the diffusion of scattered cases of cholera 
over a somewhat wide area of England, and that these shell-fish 
were so deposited and stored as to be almost necessarily bathed 
each tide with the sewage from different sewers at that time re- 
ceiving cholera discharges. In 1894 Dr. Newsholme described 
some cases of typhoid fever which he attributed to sewage- 
polluted oysters. Attention thus being called to the subject 
in England, cases were frequently reported of illness following 
the consumption of oysters, cockles, and occasionally other 
shell-fish. Many such cases happened in Essex, and invariably 
the oysters or cockles were traced to sources which were 
notoriously liable to sewage pollution. In 1894 occurred the 
serious outbreak of typhoid fever at the Wesleyan University, 
Connecticut, U.S.A., during which twenty-six persons who 
had attended a certain fraternity supper were attacked. The 



UNSOUND FOOD. FISH 251 

only article of food which had been partaken of by all was 
oysters, and these were found to have been derived from a 
creek receiving sewage from the outlet of a drain within 300 
feet of the layings. At the house connected with this drain 
were two cases of typhoid fever, so that the sewage at that 
time was specifically infected. In 1896 Dr. Chantemesse re- 
ported an outbreak in the town of Saint Andre-de-Sangonis. 
A barrel of oysters was consumed by fourteen persons and all 
were taken ill, other members of the same household not being 
affected. All appear to have been attacked with vomiting and 
diarrhoea, and two suffered from a severe type of typhoid fever. 
It was afterwards found that these oysters had been stored in 
grossly polluted water. In 1902 occurred a series of cases of 
typhoid fever following the Mayors' banquets at Winchester 
and Southampton, which were investigated by Dr. Bulstrode 
for the Local Government Board. Out of 134 guests at the 
Winchester banquet sixty-two were attacked with illness of some 
kind or other, and at Southampton out of 132 guests fifty-four 
were taken ill, and nine of the former, and ten of the latter 
suffered from typhoid fever. 1 Dr. Bulstrode summarizes the 
results of his observations as follows : 

1. Two mayoral banquets occur on the same day in separate 
towns several miles apart. 

2. In connection with each banquet there occurs illness of 
analogous nature, attacking, approximately speaking, the same 
percentage of guests and at corresponding intervals. 

3. At both banquets not every guest partook of oysters, but 
all those guests who suffered from enteric fever, and approxi- 
mately all those who suffered from other illness, did partake of 
oysters. The exceptions to this rule appear insignificant when 
all the facts are marshalled. 

4. Oysters derived directly from the same source consti- 
tuted the only article of food which was common to the guests 
attacked. 

5. Oysters from this source were at the same time and in 

' Local Government Board, Report of Medical Officer. 1902-3. 



252 PKESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

other places proving themselves competent causes of enteric 
fever. 

The presumption that the oysters were the cause of the 
illness amounts, therefore, to a practical certainty. In 1895 
Dr. Bulstrode had pointed out the dangerous proximity of the 
layings, from which these oysters were taken at Emsworth, to 
the sewer outfalls, and previous to the outbreak cases of 
typhoid fever had occurred at Emsworth. Considering that 
this disease had been prevalent nearly every year in the town, 
it is difficult to explain why similar outbreaks had not previously 
occurred ; but our inability to explain this does not in any way 
weaken the evidence against the oysters ; it merely reveals our 
ignorance of all the concomitant conditions necessary to so 
infect an oyster as to render it capable of causing typhoid fever, 
or illness of an allied nature. In 1902 one of us investigated 
an outbreak, including four cases of typhoid fever and twenty- 
one other cases of illness, which occurred in August of that 
year at Mistley, Essex. The oysters implicated were what are 
known as 'Portuguese,' and were sold from a fishing smack 
at various places. In a few instances only did the sickness 
and diarrhoea supervene within a few hours. In most cases 
the illness commenced from twenty-four to forty-eight hours 
after eating the oysters, suggesting infection by some such 
organism as the B. enteritidis of Gartner. The illness varied 
from a feeling of nausea and distressing weakness to a 
fatal attack of enteric fever. Only a certain portion of the 
oysters sold appears to have been capable of causing illness, 
all the cases occurring amongst those who purchased oysters 
from the smack whilst it was anchored at a certain place near 
a sewer outfall. Those which were sold at other places where 
the smack put in apparently produced no ill effects. We 
afterwards examined the layings from which the oysters were 
obtained but could detect no source of pollution. The smack 
owner denied having used any of the sewage-polluted water at 
Mistley for refreshing the oysters. The oyster merchants 
accounted for the illness by saying that the oysters were 



UNSOUND FOOD. FISH 253 

probably sick, and one or two persons who suffered said that 
the oysters looked yellow or had an unusual taste. The true 
native oyster (Ostrea edulis) is hermaphrodite, and spats from 
May to September. It is illegal to remove them for the purpose 
of sale from May 14 to August 4. The Portuguese oyster 
(Ostrea angulata), on the other hand, is unisexual and is said 
never to show the signs of ' sickness ' observed in the native 
oyster during the close season. Even the assumption that a 
' sick ' or spawning oyster is unwholesome does not explain 
why a certain few sold at a certain time and in a certain place 
should cause diarrhoaa, sickness, and typhoid fever. At present, 
therefore, the cause of the unwholesomeness of the oysters 
remains undiscovered. 

In nearly all the carefully recorded cases where shell-fish 
has caused typhoid fever other persons have suffered from 
diarrho3a, sickness, &c., and in our experience of Essex cases, 
those who are earliest attacked with diarrhoea are most likely 
to escape an attack of typhoid fever, and vice versa. 

The case against cockles is perhaps not quite so conclusive 
as that against oysters, since this humble bivalve does not 
appear on the menu at mayoral banquets, being consumed 
entirely by persons of the poorer class. Moreover, they are 
usually cooked before eating, but though the process of par- 
boiling to which they are subjected in the homes of the poor 
may possibly sterilize the outside of the animal, it certainly has 
little if any effect upon the stomach contents. 1 At Leigh-on- 
Sea, the chief centre of the cockle industry in the south of 
England, the cockles are now submitted to steam under pressure 
for a certain length of time, but since this process has been 
introduced cases of typhoid fever have to our knowledge been 
attributed to cooked cockles purchased there. One of us has 
investigated several outbreaks of typhoid fever in Essex, in 
which the disease was limited to persons who had partaken of 
certain cockles picked from polluted foreshores. In 1889 an 
outbreak occurred at Exeter amongst children who had visited 

1 See also Report of Medical Officer to the Local Government Board, 1900-1. 



254 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Exmouth in connection with school treats, and who had eaten 
freely of ' raw ' cockles from sewage-polluted mudbanks. Many 
medical officers of health have since reported cases of typhoid 
fever which they had reason to believe were due to the eating 
of cockles. In all these instances, where the source from which 
the cockles were taken was examined, the pollution by sewage 
was more or less gross and unmistakable. An examination of 
the bacterial contents of these bivalves shows that they almost 
invariably contain the Bacillus coli ; we have searched for this 
organism in samples taken from the reputedly safest known 
source round the coast, and have had no difficulty in isolating 
it from the body pulp. 

So far as we are aware, the only occasion on which the 
Bacillus typhosus has been detected in cockles suspected of 
causing disease was connected with an outbreak of enteric 
fever which occurred in Glasgow in 1903. The patients were 
Glasgow people who had been holiday-making at a neighbour- 
ing seaside resort. The occurrence was investigated by 
the Scottish Local Government Board in conjunction with 
Dr. Knight, and it was found that, in addition to the actual 
cases of typhoid fever, many other persons were attacked 
with vomiting and diarrhoea, apparently due to the same class 
of food. As already pointed out, this is the rule in epidemics 
of typhoid fever due to shell-fish. It is also noteworthy that 
the gastro-intestinal symptoms occurred within a few hours 
of eating the shell-fish, whilst in many of the persons 
who contracted typhoid fever no early symptoms appeared. 
Samples of cockles and ' muskins ' were collected from the 
suspected locality, which was known to be polluted by 
sewage, and the Bacillus typhosus was isolated by Buchanan 
from four cockles and one muskin, the Bacillus coli in 
these particular samples being comparatively few in number. 
From a loopful of the fluid from one of the cockles it was 
estimated that no less than 7,000 colonies of B. typhosus were 
obtained. 1 

1 Journ. Royal San. Inst. xxv. part iii. p. 463. 



UNSOUND FOOD. FISH 255 

The only univalve mollusc which is largely used is the peri- 
winkle (Littorina littorea). Although, when sold in towns, 
it is usually boiled before being eaten, it is not uncommon 
for excursionists and even residents near the coast to pick 
them up from the shore, abstract the bodies from the shells, 
and eat them ' raw.' Considering the localities from which 
some of the winkles are gathered, it is certainly curious that no 
illness appears to have been recorded as arising from eating 
them. 

In a recent report to the Fishmongers' Company Dr. Klein 
gives an account of some interesting experiments made by him 
with reference to the vitality of the bacillus of typhoid fever 
and of sewage microbes in oysters and other shell-fish. He 
found that native oysters, whether from a polluted or unpolluted 
source, after being placed in sea-water infected with very large 
numbers of the Bacillus typhosus, freed themselves from the 
presence of this bacillus in from six to nine days if transferred 
to clean sea-water. When placed in sewage-polluted water and 
similarly transferred he found the Bacillus coli disappeared 
with equal rapidity. This we have had occasion to confirm. 

On the other hand, cockles did not exhibit this tendency, 
the bacilli actually multiplying in the body of the animal for a 
time. In mussels the bacilli did decrease in number, but were 
still very plentiful after seven days' immersion in clean sea- 
water. It is fortunate, therefore, that these latter shell-fish are 
so rarely eaten without being cooked, and the necessity for 
thorough cooking is emphasized. 

Caviare consists of the roe of certain fish, usually the 
sturgeon, which has been specially treated to suit the market 
for which it is intended. It is generally imported in casks, and 
is then packed in small sealed bottles, jars, or tins, for sale. 
No one but an expert would venture to give an opinion upon 
the quality or condition of this substance. It varies greatly in 
colour, in consistency, and in odour, the latter being to many 
people at all times offensive. Cheese may be kept until it 
acquires a very strong odour, and in this condition be esteemed 



256 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

by some as a great delicacy, whereas by others it would 
be considered as rotten and unfit for food. In the same way 
differences of opinion may arise with reference to caviare. It 
may, however, become rancid, or acquire a mouldy taste, in 
either of which conditions it would be unsaleable and possibly 
unfit for food. If preserved in hermetically sealed vessels, these 
when opened under .water should not give off bubbles of gas 
with a distinctly offensive odour. Some caviare which had 
been sent to South Africa, and returned after the war, was 
examined by one of us. Nearly all the tins (each of which 
contained 4 ounces) were blown, and when pricked under 
water gave off from 2 or 3 to 20 c.c. of an inflammable gas with 
an offensive odour, and the contents were found to have become 
softer than usual, tending to become pasty. The caviare was 
regarded as being unfit for food. 



CHAPTEK XXI 

BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF SHELL-FISH, 
OYSTEES, COCKLES, ETC. 

THE unenviable notoriety which oysters (and cockles) have 
attained during recent years has led to many attempts being 
made to discover some method of examination which would 
reveal whether the shell-fish exhibited signs of sewage con- 
tamination. Shell-fish have been seized in the City of London 
upon the results of bacteriological examination, but un- 
fortunately no case has been contested in the Courts, and the 
legality of this procedure, based merely upon the results of 
such an examination, has not been decided." The Royal 
Commission on ' Disposal of Sewage ' express the opinion that 
section 116 of the Public Health Act is useless for preventing 
the sale of contaminated shell-fish. ' There is nothing,' they 
say, ' in their appearance to distinguish shell-fish which have 
been exposed to sewage contamination from those which have 
not been so exposed, and ... in the present state of knowledge 
it would be impracticable to make the distinction by the aid of 
a bacteriological examination as a routine measure.' Dr. Klein 
had expressed the view that the normal oyster does not harbour 
within its shell or within its body Bacillus coli communis or 
other organisms closely allied to it, and that the presence of 
these organisms ' in considerable numbers of oysters in a series 
of samples from a particular locality may be taken to indicate 
sewage pollution.' On the other hand, one of us pointed out 
to the Commissioners that the Bacillus coli was commonly 
present in cockles and oysters taken from layings remote from 

17 



258 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

the possibility of sewage contamination. Dr. Houston was 
therefore instructed to examine a large number of oysters 
from (a) the purest waters in which oysters are grown or 
fattened in this country, and (b) from layings obviously liable 
to pollution. The results showed that nearly all the oysters 
examined (over 1,000), from whatever layings they were taken, 
contained Bacillus coli communis or other bacilli closely allied 
to it. Moreover, he found and this has been repeatedly 
confirmed by one of us that the number of organisms belong- 
ing to the coli group obtainable from the contents of the 
stomach of the oyster was greater than that from the liquid 
contained in the shell. Observers who have confined their 
attention to the liquid only have failed repeatedly to isolate 
the Bacillus coli from oysters taken from admittedly polluted 
layings. The mere presence of the Bacillus coli in an oyster 
is therefore no proof of its being derived from a polluted source, 
and the same applies to the presence of the Bacillus enteritidis 
sporogenes and streptococci. The reason for this is not difficult 
of explanation, and it is surprising that no reference is made 
to it in the Report of the Royal Commission. All the noted 
oyster layings in this country are situated near extensive tracts 
of marshes, from which the ditches pour out on the foreshore 
vast volumes of water charged with organic matter in solution, 
and swarming with low forms of vegetable and animal life. 
It is probably this condition which renders such localities so 
eminently suited for breeding and fattening oysters. These 
waters contain an abundance of organisms of the coli group, 
and also of the Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes. The marshes 
are practically uninhabited, but large numbers of cattle may 
be fed upon them. In a tidal river recently examined by one 
of us, the most careful examination failed to reveal any trace 
of sewage entering the stream, yet the Bacillus coli was found 
both in the river-water and in the oysters taken from the 
layings, and, in the latter, in rather large relative abundance. 
Finally it was found that water was entering from a marsh 
ditch near the layings, a ditch which received no sewage, but 



BACTEEIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF SHELL-FISH 259 

merely water draining from the marshes and containing an 
abundance of the Bacillus coli. There is no doubt that 
organisms of this type form no essential part of the bacterial 
flora of deep-sea water, but they appear to be an essential part 
of the flora of waters suitable for fattening oysters. 

Whilst directing attention to the danger of attaching too 
much importance to any standard, Dr. Houston suggests 
tentatively two standards, one ' stringent ' and the other 
' lenient,' based on the collective examination of ten oysters 
made on the lines suggested in his report. 

Oysters containing less than 100 coli-like microbes per 
oyster, and less than ten spores of the Bacillus enteritidis 
sporogenes, would pass the ' stringent ' standard, but if con- 
taining above this number, but less than 1,000 coli-like microbes, 
and 100 spores of the Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes, they 
would pass the ' lenient ' standard. Oysters containing 
organisms in excess of the ' lenient ' standard he regards as 
' outside the pale of recognition.' A coli-like microbe he 
defines as one which produces acid and gas in litmus-glucose- 
taurocholate broth, grows on gelatine with the characteristic 
appearance of the Bacillus coli, and gives three out of four of 
the following reactions : fluorescence in neutral-red broth, 
acid and gas in lactose-peptone solution, indol in peptone 
solution, and acid-clotting of milk. He finds that about 
85 per cent, of the coli-like organisms give the whole of the 
four reactions. It follows from what has been above stated 
that he would be a bold man who would dare to condemn 
oysters (and therefore the layings from which they were taken) 
from a mere bacteriological examination. The examination 
of sources from which oysters producing disease have been 
taken, and a study of the description of other such sources, 
leads us to the conclusion that, in all the cases in which oysters 
have caused typhoid fever, the layings from which they were 
taken were grossly and obviously polluted by human sewage, 
and when oysters are known to be derived from such a source 
probably their seizure would be justifiable. 



260 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

From what has been said it is obvious that great care must 
be exercised in arriving at a conclusion as to whether shell fish 
are dangerously sewage polluted from a mere bacteriological 
examination. This applies more especially to oysters which 
are fattened and bred on the foreshores of estuaries. The 
mere fact that certain bacteria are present in the liquid within 
the shell or in the body of the fish is no proof of sewage con- 
tamination, but if they are present in large numbers there is 
presumptive evidence of such pollution. Two methods of 
examination have been adopted. In one a number of separate 
oysters (or cockles) are examined individually, the liquid in 
the shell of each being examined for the presence of the two 
bacteria above-mentioned, and the liquid which exudes when 
the body of the fish has been cut nearly through being similarly 
examined. If in a considerable proportion of these, say 30 to 
50 per cent., the two bacteria are found, the shell-fish are con- 
sidered as being derived from an unsafe source. The experience 
of one of us with this process is that it is less reliable than the 
alternative process, which consists in cutting up the bodies of 
say ten of the oysters or cockles, forming these into an emulsion 
with the liquid from the shells, diluting with water and exam- 
ining the mixture, taking portions of the liquid corresponding 
to an aliquot part, or the whole, of the contents of one pair 
of shells. 

The shells must be thoroughly scrubbed in running water 
with a nail-brush (the use of a little soap is recommended by 
Houston), and then well rinsed with sterile water, and laid out 
on a sterile plate with the flat shell upmost. The hands of 
the operator should then be sterilized by any ordinary process, 
and rinsed with sterile water. Each oyster grasped in a sterile 
towel is then opened with a knife, and a little experience is 
required in order to do this expeditiously and without losing 
any of the liquid out of the shell. The liquid is poured into a 
litre cylinder, and the oyster taken up by means of forceps and 
cut up with scissors, the fragments being allowed to fall into 
the cylinder. When ten oysters have been thus treated, they 



BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF SHELL-FISH 261 

are well mashed up with a glass rod expanded at the end. 
The rod, scissors, &c., should all have been recently sterilized. 
Sterile water is then added to 1 litre and the whole well mixed. 
One hundred c.c. equal the contents of one oyster, 10 c.c. 
-j 1 ^- of an oyster, 1 c.c. y^, of an oyster, and dilutions should 
be made so that 1 c.c. corresponds to T oVo~ ToiroD> ar| d 
i o <A> oir respectively, of an oyster. These solutions are then 
used for the tests for the Bacillus coli and Bacillus enteritidis 
sporogenes. Houston recommends that three primary cultures 
should be made with each, and the result considered negative 
unless the characteristic reaction is obtained with at least two 
out of the three. 

For detecting the Bacillus coli communis use bile-salt- 
lactose-litmus broth for the primary cultures. From the tubes 
in which fermentation is set up, inoculate bile-salt-lactose- 
neutral-red-agar plates, and from the colonies surrounded with 
haze, if any, inoculate milk (for acid and curd), peptone solution 
(for indol), and gelatine tubes (for non-production of liquefac- 
tion). Examine also in a hanging drop, and stain the bacilli by 
Gram's method. If positive results are obtained throughout, 
the presence of the true Bacillus coli may be considered to be 
demonstrated. If either the milk is not curdled or indol 
produced an allied organism may be present of the coli group, 
but the presence of the Bacillus coli communis cannot be 
asserted. If the organism liquefies the gelatine it is probably 
a proteus, it is certainly not one of the coli group (vide Thresh, 
' Examination of Water,' p. 352). 

For detecting the Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes, a series 
of tubes of recently boiled and cooled milk are used, and each 
mixture incubated anaerobically (op. cit., p. 356). The charac- 
teristic ' enteritidis change,' if found in two out of three of 
each series from the same dilution, may be assumed to indicate 
the presence of the spores of this bacillus in the amount of the 
liquid used. 

When both the true Bacillus coli and the spores of the B. 
enteritidis sporogenes can be found in y^- of an oyster by this 



262 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

method, it is probable that the batch comes from a contaminated 
source, as we have never found oysters from a source which 
upon examination could be considered satisfactory to give such 
high results, but oysters taken from the best layings round the 
coast have been repeatedly found by one of to us contain 
both organisms in -^ of the shell contents, but never in ^^ 
Houston's suggested tentative standards based on the average 
number of coli-like organisms and of spores of the Bacillus 
enteritidis sporogenes in each oyster, which differ slightly from 
the above, have already been given. His views will be found 
at length in vol. iii. of the ' Fourth Report of the Commission 
on the Disposal of Sewage,' pp. 169-72. 

Cockles, mussels, and other shell-fish may be examined in a 
similar manner, but there are no records which enable us to 
suggest even a provisional standard. One of us has failed to 
obtain from any source cockles which did not contain the 
Bacillus coli. The question, however, is one of comparatively 
little importance, since cockles and mussels, unlike oysters, are 
only consumed after being cooked. Although this process, as 
ordinarily conducted, does not sterilize the interior of the 
bodies, it must considerably reduce the risk to those who con- 
sume them. 

The method adopted by Klein * in examining oysters (and 
other shell-fish) gives results which differ considerably from 
those obtained by Houston's, though why this should be so is 
difficult to explain. Klein relies entirely upon the examination 
of individual oysters to ascertain the proportion in which the 
Bacillus coli is contained, and upon the approximate estimation 
of the number found in each. For this purpose he strongly 
recommends the use of the Drigalski-Conradi medium (nutrose- 
litmus-lactose-crystal-violet agar), which not only permits of 
the Bacillus coli being readily isolated, but also gives typical 
colonies of the Bacillus typhosus, and the Bacillus enteritidis of 

1 Experiments and Observations on the Vitality of the Bacillus of Typhoid 
Fever and of -Sewage Microbes in Oysters and other Shell-fish, by E. Klein, M.D., 
F.R.S. The Worshipful Company of Fishmongers, August 1905. 



BACTEBIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF SHELL-FISH 263 

Gartner when these are present. The following account of 
the method followed by him in his recent investigations for 
the Fishmongers' Company is taken from his interesting and 
valuable report : 

' The oyster, after the outside of the shell had been 
thoroughly washed and brushed under the tap, was opened 
with a sterile knife, the liquor was drained off as completely as 
possible, the body of the fish, with its mantle and branchiae, 
was then transferred to a sterile glass dish, and herein cut up 
(minced) with sterile scissors as finely as possible ; after 
thoroughly mixing the minced material, the fluid (thick, 
turbid) is removed with a sterile glass pipette and measured. 
From this fluid a definite amount, in no case more than Ol or 
0*15 c.c. was . . . directly transferred to a Drigalski plate. . . . 
After having by means of the sterile bent glass rod carefully, 
thoroughly, and uniformly rubbed the material over the surface 
of the dry medium (all previous moisture having been previously 
removed by allowing the plates to evaporate it spontaneously 
for two to three hours in the incubator), the plates are trans- 
ferred to the incubator at 37 C.' 

Two or more plates may be made from each oyster if so 
desired. On the Drigalski medium at 37 C., the B. coli of 
faecal matter, after twenty-four to thirty-six hours, gives 
colonies several millimetres in diameter, distinctly red, with 
distinct red halo when viewed in transmitted light. Such 
colonies are picked out for further examination and are not 
regarded by Klein to be the true B. coli unless they correspond 
to all the following tests : 

1. Give numerous gas bubbles in nutrient gelatine shake- 
culture in twenty-four hours at 20 C. 

2. Give on a gelatine slope, from a streak, at 20 C. a rapidly 
spreading dry band with irregular margin ; no liquefaction of 
gelatine at any time. 

3. Give a greenish fluorescence in neutral-red broth at 37 C. 
in twenty-four to thirty-six hours. 

4. Give acid and gas in MacConkey's fluid. 



264 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

5. Make phenol broth (-05 per cent.) turbid in twenty-four 
hours, with copious gas formation. Temperature, 37 C. 

6. Produce indol in nutrient broth at 37 C. in three to five 
days. 

7. Produce acid and gas in lactose-peptone-litmus broth in 
twenty-four to thirty -six hours. 

8. Produce acid in litmus milk at 37 C. within twenty-four 
hours, and clot the milk in one to three days. 

9. The flagellate bacillus is not stained by Gram. 

Klein remarks on the necessity of distinguishing the true 
Bacillus coli from so-called coli-like microbes, and quotes an 
instance in which out of fifty -eight coli-like growths, only twelve 
were found to be the B. coli communis. 

There can be no doubt that where these tests are applied, 
and no bacillus regarded as the B. coli communis which does 
not respond to every one, very few shell-fish from clean 
sources are found to contain this organism ; hence if any con- 
siderable percentage show the presence of this bacillus there is 
strong presumptive evidence of their being derived from a pol- 
luted source. 

In four instances Klein has found the B. typhosus in shell- 
fish. The method adopted appears to be the same as for the 
B. coli, using the Drigalski plate. On this medium the 
typhoid colonies may be recognized as isolated, translucent, 
blue dots in twenty-four hours, and in seventy-two hours the 
colonies are several millimetres in width. The colonies have : 
(1) a conical shape ; (2) a prominent centre ; (3) a flat thin 
margin, violet when viewed in reflected light on black ground ; 
(4) have a violet blue centre, and a finely granular, and moist 
or glistening aspect. The individual bacilli are short, cylin- 
drical in shape (not filamentous and not in chains), motile, 
and quickly clumping with typhoid serum. Subcultures should 
also be made on gelatine, in litmus-milk, and in MacConkey's 
solution and in broth. 

The B. enteritidis of Gartner may also be detected if 
present in the growth on the Drigalski medium. According to 



BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF SHELL-FISH 265 

Klein, it forms blue-violet colonies growing more slowly than 
those of the B. typhosus. The bacillus when examined is 
found to be shorter than the B. typhosus, it causes fluorescence 
in neutral red broth, turns litmus milk at first slightly acid, 
but after two or three days slightly alkaline, and it produces 
acid and gas in MacConkey's fluid. It does not agglutinate 
with typhoid serum in anything like the high dilution that 
B. typhosus does, and it is highly virulent to rodents after 
subcutaneous injection. 

Care must be taken to apply all the confirmatory tests to 
the growth on the Drigalski medium, as other organisms occur 
in sewage which in their growth bear a more or less close 
resemblance to those produced by the three specific organisms, 
but which can be differentiated by the subsequent tests. 

The bacillus of Gartner should always be sought for in 
cases of poisoning, whether due to shell-fish or any other 
article of food, especially where diarrhoea is a prominent 
symptom. 



CHAPTEE XXII 

UNSOUND FOOD (continued). MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE 

DAIRY products which have caused disease have usually 
presented no abnormal appearance to the consumer. Very 
rarely can unsoundness be detected by mere inspection ; hence 
seizures under the ' unsound food ' sections of the Public 
Health Acts are rarely made. Milk especially is frequently so 
contaminated as to cause disease, although to all appearance 
good and wholesome. Such milk was obviously unsound and 
unwholesome at the time of sale, although its dangerous 
character could not be detected by inspection. The chief 
specific diseases which have been ascribed to milk are tubercu- 
losis, scarlet fever, diphtheria, epidemic dermatitis, enteric 
fever, and cholera. A large proportion of the cases of ' summer 
diarrhoea ' (zymotic enteritis) among children is probably due 
to milk, and from time to time outbreaks of illness characterized 
chiefly by sore throat and general depression have been traced 
to this food. Thrush is also probably occasioned sometimes 
by impure milk containing Oidium albicans, and foot-and- 
mouth disease, or at all events a septic condition of the mouth 
and throat, may also be similarly conveyed. 

The identity of the bacilli of human and bovine tubercu- 
losis was considered in connection with meat, and the import- 
ance of establishing the true relationship is indicated by the 
fact that a very considerable proportion, probably 20 per cent, 
or more, of milch cows in England have sufficient deposits of 
tubercle within their bodies to react to tuberculin. Fortu- 
nately the bacilli apparently reach the milk solely when the 
mammary glands are affected, and this is said to occur in only 
3 to 4 per cent, of tubercular cows. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 267 

As, however, the milk sent out from a farm is mixed, a 
single cow with tuberculous udders is capable of inoculating a 
large amount of milk. Klein and Houston l found that out of 
ninety-eight samples from different farms, 7 per cent, contained 
virulent tubercle bacilli. In Liverpool in 1897, 2'8 per cent, of 
the milk produced within the city and 29' 1 per cent, of that 
produced outside the city was tuberculous. In 1898 the 
figures were 8-3 and 17'8 per cent, respectively. Kanthack 
and Sladen found 56 '3 per cent, of samples of milk from 
Cambridgeshire dairies to be tuberculous. In London dairies 
it is estimated that 25 per cent, of the cattle are suffering from 
tuberculosis, and Delepine finds that 25 per cent, of the 
samples of milk sold in Manchester are infected with tubercle. 
Similar figures have been given by Continental observers. 

That tubercular diseases are caused by the consumption of 
infected milk few people will deny, although absolute proof is 
practically impossible. Assuming that Koch is correct in 
asserting that the bacilli of human and of bovine origin differ 
in certain respects, it does not follow that the bovine form is 
harmless to man. On the contrary, the followers of Koch 
admit that they have found the ' typus bovinus ' in the glands 
of children suffering from primary intestinal tuberculosis. 
Dr. Nathan Raw, 2 who has had exceptional opportunities for 
studying tuberculosis in children and adults, adopts Koch's 
view that there are two distinct varieties of tubercle, the 
'typus humanus,' chiefly conveyed by infection from one 
person to another, and the ' typus bovinus,' chiefly received 
into the body by infected meat and milk ; but he is of opinion 
that bovine bacilli are very virulent for children, and are 
accountable for tabes mesenterica and other forms of abdominal 
tubercle. He further expresses the view that the bovine 
variety is more virulent for children than the human type, and 
he bases his conclusions upon the study of nearly 401 cases 
of tabes mesenterica observed during the last twelve years. 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1900-1, p. 330. 
* British Medical Journal, October 21, 1905, p. 1,018. 



268 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

With the exception of two children of consumptive mothers 
he has not known a single case to occur in a child fed entirely on 
breast-milk ; the whole of them (with the above two exceptions) 
were reared for some considerable time on cows' milk. He 
further points out that when pigs are fed on tuberculous milk 
they develop ' scrofula,' and he has repeatedly seen children, 
and in some cases adults, suffering from enlarged neck glands, 
who had been consuming milk from cows suffering from tuber- 
cular disease of the udder. Out of 123 cases of meningitis 
in children under four years of age, he found that all without 
exception had been fed on cows' milk. 

His experience in Liverpool, where much attention has 
been paid to the subject of tubercular milk, is most interesting. 
He has ' noticed a diminution in abdominal tuberculosis and 
enlarged glands during the last two or three years, due in a 
great measure to the rigorous inspection of all dairies,' and the 
supply by the city of sterilized milk for the poor. As the 
result of his extended experience and careful investigations he 
has arrived at the conclusion that, when tubercle is stamped 
out from cattle, surgical tuberculosis in children will to a 
great extent disappear with it. 

The majority of the members of the medical profession 
who have given attention to this subject are agreed that there 
is some connection between tuberculosis in milch cows and 
tuberculosis in children. It is exceedingly significant that the 
death-rate from abdominal tuberculosis amongst children, 
taking the country as a whole, and tuberculosis amongst 
dairy cattle show no sign of decrease, if they are not actually 
increasing. In many of our largest towns the milk supplies 
are from time to time examined for the presence of tubercle 
bacilli, and when evidence of their presence is obtained the 
milk is traced to its source and the cows examined. Almost 
invariably an infected animal is found. This is eliminated 
from the herd, but there is reason to fear that such cattle are 
not always destroyed, but are sold to the owner of other dairy 
farms. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 269 

Milk outbreaks of scarlet fever and diphtheria are by no 
means uncommon. Nearly every year such outbreaks are 
recorded, some of them of a very extensive character. The 
infection is nearly always, if not invariably, derived from a 
human source, and the possibility of cows being susceptible 
to either of these diseases has never been satisfactorily 
established. The classical Hendon outbreak of 1885 was 
considered by Klein and others to be due to bovine scarlet 
fever, but Sir George Brown, the head of the Agricultural 
Department, held that the disease from which the cows 
suffered was cow-pox, and that the scarlet fever was derived 
from human sources. 

Similarly it is extremely doubtful if cows suffer from a disease 
capable of transmitting diphtheria through their milk. In 1891 
Sir Kichard Thome Thorne, in reviewing the chief epidemics 
of milk diphtheria, referred to the almost invariable association 
of such epidemics with lesions of the udders of the cows in 
the affected dairy, and Klein made some inoculation experi- 
ments w T hich appeared to indicate that cattle w T ere susceptible 
to the diphtheria bacillus, and that the illness was usually 
accompanied by an eruption on the udders from which the 
diphtheria bacilli could be recovered ; but his experiments have 
been repeated with contrary results by Loeffler and Abbott. 
Dean and Todd L investigated a small outbreak of diphtheria 
directly connected with the milk from two cows. Both the 
cows were suffering from papules and ulcers on the udders and 
teats, and virulent diphtheria bacilli were isolated both from 
the lesions and from the milk. The eruption was of a 
contagious nature, and was experimentally communicated to 
the teats and udder of a healthy cow, but no diphtheria bacilli 
were to be found in the lesions so produced. Similarly the 
crusts were inoculated on the abdominal skin of two calves, 
one of which had previously received 10,000 units of diphtheria 
antitoxin ; in both cases ulcers resulted, but in neither case 

1 Journal of Hygiene, vol. ii. p. 194. 



270 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

could diphtheria bacilli be isolated from the lesions. The 
investigators came to the conclusion that the cows, whose 
milk was associated with the diphtheria outbreak, were not 
themselves suffering from diphtheria, but that the lesions on 
the teats and udders were of a non-diphtheritic character, 
and that the specific organisms had probably been introduced 
by the hands of milkers, and had multiplied in the ulcers. 

The typhoid bacillus inay be introduced into milk in several 
ways, probably the commonest being through water, used 
either for washing the utensils or for diluting the milk. The 
Clifton outbreak in 1897 ] is an example of the former, and 
the Moseley outbreak in 1873 2 of the latter. Similarly a 
milk-borne epidemic of typhoid fever occurred in Springfield, 
Mass., and was due to the milk cans being immersed in a 
polluted well to cool. 3 Personal contact was probably the 
means of introducing infection in the Penrith epidemic of 
1857, 4 the mother of a girl suffering from a mild attack of 
typhoid fever both acting as nurse and taking part in the 
milking. Contaminated cloths used for wiping the utensils 
appeared to be responsible for an epidemic in Barrowford, 
Lanes., in 1876, whilst to the introduction of particulate infec- 
tive material from dried excreta in a defective drain was ascribed 
an outbreak at Millbrook in Cornwall (1880) . 5 A small out- 
break in Leeds during the spring of 1900 appeared to be due 
to the infection of the milk during the emptying of a privy 
at a farm, the primary attacks suddenly occurring within a 
few days of each other and as suddenly ceasing. The privy 
under suspicion had been emptied about a fortnight before the 
first case of typhoid fever began. 

The possibility that flies may convey infection from a privy, 
or from fields fertilized with human excreta, &c., should also 
not be lost sight of. 

1 Trans. Epidem. Society, vol. xvii. 

2 Local Government Board Report, 1874. 

3 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1893, ii. p. 485. 

4 Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1858. 

5 British Medical Journal, vol. i., 1881. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 271 

In an epidemic described in the ' British Medical Journal," 
1880, vol. i. p. 89, is raised the suspicion that cows may them- 
selves suffer from an invasion of the typhoid bacilli, and be 
capable of transmitting the infection to man through their 
milk ; if this be the case it is probable that the bacilli reach 
the milk from the alvine discharges. The possibility of this 
happening is emphasized by an epidemic at Eagley and Bolton 
in 1876, investigated by Power. 1 

Cholera has also been spread by means of milk through the 
use of polluted water, but inasmuch as the comma bacillus 
does not thrive in an acid medium, milk is not so favourable 
a culture fluid as it is for other pathogenic germs. In this 
connection reference may be made to Klein's investigations on 
the behaviour of certain bacilli in milk. 2 Tubercle bacilli were 
found to flourish in milk at 37 C., and in some instances even 
to increase in virulency. The bacilli also grew in sterilized 
cream and upon sterilized cheese. The typhoid bacillus multi- 
plied in milk at 20 and at 37 C., and in cream at 20 C. 
Cheese was apparently unfavourable. Diphtheria bacilli grew 
in milk at 20, but not at 37 C., whilst cream and cheese 
appeared to be unsuitable media. The Streptococcus con- 
glomeratus flourished in milk at both temperatures, and to a 
limited extent in cream and on cheese at 20 C., but not at 
37 C. 

The germ or germs actually responsible for zymotic enteritis 
has been the subject of considerable speculation and investiga- 
tion. Delepine, 3 after discussing the literature and bacteriology 
in connection therewith, gives good reasons for believing that 
the majority of cases of milk-borne diarrhoea are due to infec- 
tion by the B. enteritidis (Gartner) or other species of the 
' colon group.' He holds that the infection takes place at the 
farm, though this is disputed by Newsholme and others. On 
the occasion of a milk-borne epidemic of diarrhoea in Manchester 

1 Hamer, Manual of Hygiene, p. 1^8. 

2 Local Government Board Report, 1899-lHOO. 

3 Journal of Hygiene, iii. 68. 



272 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

(1894), affecting at least 180 families, Delepine isolated a 
bacillus of the Gartner group from a sample of the implicated 
milk, which bacillus was pathogenic for guinea-pigs, and caused 
peritonitis, intense hypersemia of the small intestines, and con- 
gestion of the lungs. 

Outbreaks of sore throat due to milk have been reported by 
many observers. In 1875 an epidemic occurred in South 
Kensington, and was investigated by Sir B. Buchanan. 1 In 
1881 a similar outbreak at Rugby School was apparently due 
to the milk of a cow suffering from mastitis. 2 In 1899 Dr. 
J. King Warry reported on an epidemic conveyed by milk, 3 
the illness being characterized by sore throat of a septic 
character. An outbreak of illness not entirely distinguishable 
from scarlet fever occurred at Brighton in 1900, and was 
attributed to milk that had apparently been infected from 
human sources. 4 Dr. Pierce, Medical Officer of Health for 
Guildford and Woking, traced an extensive epidemic occurring 
in his districts in 1903 to milk from a special farm. The 
chief symptoms recorded were an affection of the throat, 
either quinsy, follicular tonsillitis, or ulcerated sore throat ; 
great constitutional disturbance ; and in some instances 
abscesses in connection with the lymph glands, and facial 
erysipelas, whilst in one patient a fatal attack of ulcerative 
colitis occurred. The chief organisms present in the throats 
examined were streptococci and staphylococci. Out of twenty 
cows examined at the farm four gave impure milk, and from 
two of them the liquid consisted largely of pus. From the 
pus, cocci, similar to those present in the throats of the 
patients, were isolated. Possibly, if the milk had been seen 
before it was mixed and delivered, it might have furnished one 
of the rare instances in which milk could be seized under the 
Public Health Act. 

An outbreak of disease mainly characterized by sore throat 

1 Local Government Board Report, 1876. 

2 British Medical Journal, 1881, vols. i. and ii. 

3 Annual Report, Borough of Hackney, 1900. 

4 Newsholme, Journal of Hygiene, vol. ii. p. 150. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 273 

occurred in Colchester during the month of April 1905, and 
was investigated by Dr. Savage, the Medical Officer of Health. 
It commenced on the 17th and ended on the 29th, and it is 
believed that between 500 and 600 people were attacked. It 
was confined to a limited area, the best part of the town, and to 
the users of milk from a particular farm. Of the twenty cows 
kept at this farm nineteen were healthy, but the twentieth had a 
diseased udder, and the milk drawn from one quarter was quite 
brown and consisted of dilute pus. Pus and the organisms 
associated therewith were found in the implicated milk. 

In 1904 an equally extensive epidemic occurred in Finchley 
and the neighbourhood, upwards of 500 persons being affected. 
Dr. Kenwood considered that the milk was infected through 
two cows that had suffered from indefinite symptoms. 1 

A milk-borne epidemic of somewhat doubtful character 
occurred in Lincoln in 1902, and was investigated by Dr. Darra 
Mair. 2 Some 200 persons were affected, and in many cases 
the medical attendants regarded the illness as scarlet fever, 
though the bacteriological examination of the throats did not 
bear out this view. It was suggested that the illness may have 
been due to a fungus of the nature of ' rust ' which had 
affected the field frequented by the implicated cows. In 
America ' tyrotoxicon ' has been found in milk which had 
given rise to poisonous symptoms in those consuming it, but 
no similar cases appear to have been recorded in this country. 

Several outbreaks of epidemic skin disease have been re- 
ported by the Medical Officers of the Local Government Board 
as having occurred in workhouse infirmaries. Most of these 
were attributed to the milk supplied, and in the most recent 
outbreak, referred to in a previous chapter, the implicated milk 
was found to contain formalin. It is also suggested that this 
chemical may have been the actual cause of the disease. Un- 
fortunately in the previous outbreaks this preservative was not 
sought for. This particular form of skin disease was first 

1 British Medical Journal, 1904, i. 602. 

2 Local Government Board Report, 1902-3. 

18 



274 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

described in this country in 1891 by Dr. Savill, then Medical 
Superintendent of the Paddington Infirmary, in which 163 cases 
occurred. In 1893 an outbreak (eighty-six cases) occurred at 
the Bethnal Green Workhouse Infirmary, and similar outbreaks 
of lesser magnitude in other infirmaries. The disease bears 
some likeness to pityriasis rubra and to acute general eczema, 
and the presence or absence of certain characters gives rise 
to two more or less distinct types, the ' dry ' and the ' moist.' 
The fatality ranged from 5 to 12 per cent, of the attacks. The 
evidence l with regard to the milk bearing some causal relation- 
ship to the disease was in most cases conclusive. In several 
instances the outbreaks occurred in different infirmaries which 
were being supplied with milk by the same contractor, and this 
milk was of a decidedly inferior character. 

The food upon which cows are kept rarely, if ever, affects 
the appearance of the milk, but on occasions has affected the 
taste, and when such milk has caused gastric disturbance this 
has been attributed to the food supplied to the cows. This is 
possibly erroneous, but if true it is only an additional reason 
for giving careful attention to the character of the food. 
Where cows have eaten of the leaves of the sumach (Rhus 
toxicodendrori) often found in shrubberies it is alleged that 
the milk has been affected, and has caused disturbance of the 
digestive system of those who consumed it. 

From time to time milk becomes infected with organisms 
which affect its appearance, but such milk is never offered for 
sale ; if offered it should certainly be seized as unsound. The 
Bacillus cyanogenes causes milk to become blue, the Bacillus 
synxanthus imparts a yellow tint, the Bacillus prodigiosus, the 
B. lactis erythrogenes, Sarcina rosea, and possibly other organ- 
isms, produce a red colour, whilst the Bacillus lactis viscosus and 
the Bacillus actinobacter are said to be the cause of the ropy 
character often found when cows are suffering from * garget,' 
but sometimes occurring in warm weather in the milk from 
apparently healthy cows. It is doubtful, however, whether 
1 Report of the Medical Officer of tlie Local Government Board, 1893-4, p. xix. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE 275 

any of the above-mentioned organisms possess pathogenic 
properties. Milk absorbs odorous substances with wonderful 
avidity. A short time ago one of us had occasion to investigate 
the cause of a disagreeable odour of the milk supplied by a 
certain dealer. It was found that the milkman had a wound 
in his hand which was covered with an iodoform dressing. 
When another person milked the cows the milk had no longer 
an objectionable odour. 

Milk occasionally acquires a bitter taste which affects the 
cream and butter made therefrom. This is no doubt due to 
some organism not yet recognized. Some time ago one of us 
had to advise a cow-keeper and dairyman as his milk was 
persistently bitter, if kept, and the cream and butter made 
therefrom had a similar taste. The dairy and cowsheds were 
thoroughly cleansed, hot-limewashed, and all the atensils dis- 
infected with formalin. There have been no complaints since. 
The milk did not apparently produce any ill effects on the 
consumers. Very rarely milk has been observed to be ' soapy,' 
having the taste of soap, and frothing much on agitation. 
The cause of this change is unknown, but it is probably due 
to the action of bacteria. The souring of milk from the 
production of lactic and butyric acids is a change so well 
known as not to require more than mention. 

Condensed milk is not unfrequently found to be unsound, 
and in consequence seized and condemned. Usually the only 
evidence of unsoundness is the generation of gas within the 
tins, and the consequent bulging of the ends. There are ap- 
parently no records of such milk being used and causing any 
injury to health. It is often, after seizure, allowed to be sold 
for pig feeding, and when so used we have been unable to 
hear of any ill effects following. A sample of such a batch of 
tins was recently examined by one of us. The tins were 
'blown.' The milk was normal in appearance and odour, but 
the taste was suggestive of something abnormal. Young pigs 
ate it with avidity, and certainly were not affected by it. It is 
a well-known fact that certain bakers purchase such condensed 



276 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

milk, and use it in making bread and pastry. No case of 
illness has come to our knowledge which has been attributed 
to this practice. Notwithstanding this, milk which is obviously 
undergoing decomposition with the evolution of gas cannot 
be considered fit for the food of human beings, and should be 
regarded as unsound. 

Milk has usually been looked upon as a food which could 
not be dealt with by seizure under the sections relating to 
unsound food, but obviously cases occur in which the milk 
may be so seized and taken before a magistrate for condemna- 
tion. The first, and as yet the only, recorded case occurred 
in St. Pancras in April 1905, and is of sufficient novelty 
and importance to warrant us in including an account of 
it, since it gives in detail the reasons assigned for seizing 
the milk, and the subsequent examination made to confirm 
the opinion that it was so polluted as to be unfit for human 
consumption. 

It is very probable that, if churns of milk were occasionally 
' strained ' by the inspector, sufficient evidence of the presence 
of filth would be found to justify seizure. A few prosecutions 
of this kind would tend to make the dairy farmer much more 
careful in the process of milking, and to insist upon greater 
cleanliness of his cows, and of his milkers. 

' DIRTY AND CONTAMINATED MILK DEALT WITH AS 
UNSOUND FOOD.' At Marylebone Police Court, on April 14, 
John Roberts, a farmer in Northamptonshire, appeared in 
answer to two summonses, taken out by the St. Pancras 
Borough Council, charging him, as owner of a churn of milk 
sold to the Dairy Supply Company (Limited), which was 
unwholesome and unfit for food, with depositing the milk at 
Euston Station for sale. Mr. Clarke Hall, barrister, prosecuted, 
and Mr. Freke Palmer, solicitor, defended. Mr. Clarke Hall 
said that the proceedings were taken under section 47 of 
the Public Health (London) Act, 1891. This was the first 
case of the kind in regard to milk. The defendant had been 
1 Public Health, June 1905. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 277 

under contract with the Dairy Supply Company since 
March 25, 1904, to supply them with pure new milk. On 
February 20 the churn of milk was sent to London, and was 
seen at Euston Station by a sanitary inspector in the employ 
of the Council, who found on the top, dirt, consisting of cow 
dung, straw, and hair. Dr. Sykes, the Medical Officer of 
Health, pronounced the milk unfit for food. It was brought 
to that Court, and Mr. Paul Taylor condemned it. Three 
samples, two from the top and one from the bottom, were 
submitted for analysis to Dr. Eyre, bacteriologist at Guy's 
Hospital. The result showed the presence of a brownish 
deposit amounting to at least 4 per cent, in the samples taken 
from the top, and 8 per cent, in the sample from the bottom, 
consisting almost entirely of faecal matter and pus cells. 
Experiments were made with this stuff on a healthy guinea- 
pig, and it was shown that the offensive matter contained 
tubercle bacilli, the post-mortem examination of the animal 
showing clearly that it was affected with tuberculosis. He 
submitted that it was milk of this kind that was responsible 
for the large mortality among children, and as it was a real 
danger to the public health the Council had determined to take 
action. Evidence was then called in support of the statement. 
For the defence, Mr. Freke Palmer said that the difficulty he 
had to contend with was that, unlike cases under the Food 
and Drugs Act, defendant was not made aware that the 
samples had been taken until some time afterwards, and was 
therefore unable to make any inquiries as to how the milk 
came to be in the state in which it was found. The milk was 
sent off in a clean, pure, and wholesome condition, and he 
suggested that the presence of the filth in it on its arrival was 
due to the carelessness, spite, or the interference of some one 
while it was in transit. He submitted that the Public Health 
Act did not apply to such a case as this. The defendant was 
called, and stated that all his cows were in a healthy condition, 
and this was supported by a local sanitary inspector and a 
veterinary surgeon. Mr. Chapman adjourned the case to the 



278 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Tower Bridge Police Court, where the hearing was continued 
on May 12. John Elliott, employed by the defendant to milk 
the cows, gave evidence for the defence as to the straining of 
the milk, and the care taken to prevent any impurities from 
getting into it. In reply, several railway officials were called 
to prove that the milk had not been tampered with on the 
railway. Charles Gill, station-master at Castle Ashby, said 
that on several occasions he had seen filth on the defendant's 
milk. Mr. Chapman came to the conclusion that the filth on 
the milk came from the defendant's farm. The defendant 
shared his responsibility with others, but the law made him 
responsible for the acts of his servants. The defendant was 
fined 25Z. and five guineas costs.' 

The milk from cows suffering from disease is frequently 
quite normal in appearance, but it may show some abnormality 
when submitted to careful chemical analysis. Frequently the 
proportion of salts is increased, or the presence of cholesterin 
may be detected, but no such tests afford any indication of the 
wholesomeness or otherwise of the milk. Where a cow is 
suffering from foot-and-mouth disease, pleuro-pneumonia, cattle 
plague, or tuberculosis of the udder it is illegal to supply the 
milk for human consumption, but it may be used for feeding pigs 
after being boiled. Milk from cows suffering from foot-and- 
mouth disease has on occasions proved fatal to calves and pigs, 
but possibly in such cases the milk had not been boiled. 
Unsound milk is most readily detected by microscopic examin- 
ation, search being made for pus cells, blood corpuscles, and 
certain specific organisms. Pus cells are said to be frequently 
met with in milk, but this is contrary to the experience of the 
authors (vide Chap. XVIII.). Eastes found them in 30 per 
cent, of the samples of milk examined, whilst Stokes and 
Wegefarth, in Baltimore, apparently found them in all milks, 
even from cows which had been submitted to careful veterinary 
examination and pronounced quite healthy. 1 An inflammatory 
condition of the teats and udder of the cow (' garget ') is very 

1 Journal of State Medicine, vol. v. p. 439. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 279 

common, and sometimes appears to be epidemic. The attack 
may be so mild as to escape observation, and pus cells be 
abundant in the milk. Stokes and Wegefarth refer to several 
outbreaks of disease (chiefly a form of gastro- enteritis) apparently 
attributable to the use of milk from cows with inflamed udders, 
and there can be no doubt that milk containing pus is not 
adapted for human consumption. Although they would not 
condemn a milk because it contained a few pus cells, they suggest 
that where ' the microscopical examination of the centrifugalized 
sediment of the milk from a herd of cows contains an excessive 
amount of pus ' a careful inspection of the herd should be 
made. It is noteworthy, however, that these observers found 
far fewer pus cells in the milk from well-fed and well-housed 
cows than in that from cows kept under insanitary conditions. 
It is a grave question, however, whether any milk containing 
purulent matter should be permitted to be sold. 

Unfortunately every sample of milk examined is found to 
contain traces of filth, almost innumerable bacteria, staphylo- 
cocci, and bacilli, with a few streptococci, spores of moulds, 
epithelial scales, and small cells easily confounded with pus 
cells, but staining differently with Ehrlich's triacid stain. 
If a cow is suffering from mastitis, pus cells will be very 
abundant, and be associated with streptococci. Leucocytes 
and occasionally blood corpuscles may be found in milk from 
apparently healthy cows. It is only, therefore, when these 
cells, &c., are found in excessive amount that objection 
can be taken to the milk. Milk which has undergone a 
change making it 'ropy,' discoloured, or imparting to it 
an odour, is certainly unfit for human consumption, and milk 
which contains particles of hair, straw, hay, faecal matter, 
and pus corpuscles should be condemned, especially if pyogenic 
organisms can also be detected. Most of these constituents, 
if present in dangerous amount, can be isolated for micro- 
scopical examination in a few minutes by means of a centrifuge. 
If suspected milks were promptly dealt with they could 
in many cases be examined and seized before reaching the 



280 PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 

consumer, and now that an example has been set by the St. 
Pancras Borough Council we may hope that other authorities 
will take similar action. A few prosecutions of this kind 
would probably effect a greater change for the better than 
all the bylaws which can be devised. 

Cream, as distinguished from milk, has not often been held 
responsible for cases of illness, though no doubt it is fre- 
quently capable of causing toxic symptoms. An outbreak of 
typhoid fever occurring among some guests at a certain dinner 
party held in South Kensington in 1875 was, however, ascribed 
to this article. 1 

Ice-creams have frequently given rise to gastro-intestinal 
disturbance among the consumers ; not only are they likely 
to contain such organisms and their products as may have 
been present in the original milk (though as a rule some 
degree of pasteurization or sterilization is adopted in their 
manufacture), but during their preparation and storage they 
are liable to be exposed to the most gross pollution at the 
hands of the street retailers, whose premises are frequently 
totally unsuited for the purpose. Dr. George Turner has 
described an epidemic of typhoid fever, occurring at Deptford 
in 1891, which was apparently caused by ice-cream, and 
several other outbreaks have since occurred attributable to the 
same cause. Bacteriological examinations frequently show 
that the ice-creams as sold by itinerant vendors swarm with 
bacteria, and are quite unfit for food. 

The following brief account of an outbreak of poisoning 
due to ice-creams is typical of many others recorded. It 
occurred in Birmingham during the summer of 1905, and was 
investigated by Dr. Eobertson, the City Medical Officer of 
Health. Out of 250 consumers served, fifty-two cases of illness 
occurred, four only of the patients being over fourteen years of 
age. The interval which elapsed between the eating of the 
ice-cream and the onset of the illness varied from half an hour 

1 Paper by Ernest Hart on Typhoid Fever, 1881. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIKY PEODUCE 281 

to eight and a half hours. All the persons suffered from 
diarrhoea and collapse. No irritant poison was discoverable 
by chemical analysis. Professor Leith examined the ice-cream 
bacteriologically and found therein a bacillus of the colon 
group, capable of causing the death of guinea-pigs. From an 
examination of the premises in which the ice-cream was 
manufactured, it appeared probable that it had become con- 
taminated whilst standing in the cooling shed after boiling and 
before freezing. Opposite this shed there were three water- 
closets in an extremely filthy condition, and possibly organisms 
of excremental origin had fallen upon one of the buckets of the 
cream while it was in a warm condition. These would rapidly 
multiply, and may have produced toxins or ptomaines. Neither 
the bacilli nor their poisonous products would be affected by 
the subsequent freezing. 

In London, and in several provincial towns, it is made 
illegal for an ice-cream maker or dealer to make, sell, or store 
ice-cream in any room used as a living or sleeping room, 
or to expose the ice-cream to any source of infection or con- 
tamination. Every itinerant vendor must exhibit on his barrow 
his name and address, or the name and address of the person 
from whom he obtains the ice-cream. This has been followed 
by the registration of all ice-cream makers and the frequent 
examination of their premises, and great improvements have 
been as a consequence effected. 

Butter, being produced by fermentative changes, is pre- 
sumably liable to contain many substances, which may be 
prejudicial to health, derived from the life-processes of the 
extensive bacterial flora usually present in cream, though, 
when the butter is made on scientific lines from pasteurized 
cream, there is little risk of such deleterious organic substances 
being present. Instances of poisoning are, however, uncommon 
or seldom reported. Accounts of two small outbreaks of 
disease apparently due to rancid butter are to be found in the 
' Journal of State Medicine ' (vol. iv. p. 512). In both instances 
' ptomaines ' were isolated from the suspected samples. Tyro- 



282 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

toxicon, to which reference will be made when cheese is under 
consideration, may occur also in butter and in milk. 

Klein examined twelve samples of butter bacteriologically, by 
making an emulsion and injecting portions into guinea-pigs ; two 
out of twenty-one of the animals developed localized abscesses, 
from which Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus was recovered. 

Butter is rarely if ever seized as being ' unsound.' If kept 
until rancid, it would certainly be unwholesome and seizure be 
justifiable, but the condition would be so obvious that no dealer 
would think of exposing it for sale, though he might dispose of 
it to an unscrupulous pastry-cook, the class of person who would 
purchase ' blown ' tins of condensed milk. 

Cheese. The most important illness associated with the 
consumption of cheese is that due to the presence of tyrotoxicon. 
This poison, formed by certain bacteria from nitrogenous 
substances, was first investigated by Professor V. C. Vaughan 
in connection with extensive outbreaks, involving some 300 
persons, in Michigan, U.S.A., during the years 1883 and 1884. l 
It appears to be an unstable substance, readily destroyed 
by heat, and is a virulent poison for many animals as well 
as man. The symptoms are mainly vomiting, diarrhosa, and 
collapse. 

Dr. Newman, 2 Medical Officer of Health for Finsbury, 
reported on an outbreak of this nature occurring in 1901. 
Seventeen persons were affected, the symptoms appearing in 
from two to eight hours after the cheese was eaten. Epigastric 
pain, rigors, vomiting, diarrhoea, prostration, and some fever 
formed the leading features of the illness. Convalescence 
commenced in about forty-eight hours. Mr. Colwell examined 
samples of the cheese (Dutch cheese) and detected the presence 
of tyrotoxicon. 

A similar epidemic, involving twenty-seven men with three 
fatal cases, happened at Aldershot in 1899, 3 among two field 
columns. The symptoms noticed were fever, the temperature 

1 Newman's Bacteriology and tlie Public Health, p. 251. 

2 Ibid. 3 Journal of State Medicine, vol. viii. p. 60. 



UNSOUND FOOD. MILK AND DAIEY PEODUCE 283 

ranging from 100 to 103 F., vomiting, hsematemesis, failing 
pulse, cramps, and in some instances jaundice. Autopsies in 
the fatal cases revealed ; inflammation of the stomach with 
submucous haemorrhages and oadema, and similar but less 
severe inflammation of the duodenum and jejunum. Eight 
sheep fed on remnants of the cheese sickened, and six of them 
died, similar post-mortem appearances being present. Portions 
of the cheese from the sheeps' stomachs were examined by 
Luff, and tyrotoxicon was found. Bacteriological examinations 
were made, but gave no clue as to the nature of the illness. 

Vaughan found a toxalbumin in some cheese which had 
caused the illness of those who had partaken of it. Tyro- 
toxicon was not detected in this sample. 

Mann says that ' old, decayed cheese yields an alkaline 
reaction, and has frequently given rise to colic, diarrhoea, 
dizziness, diplopia, precordial pain and collapse.' Doubtless in 
these cases some bacteria had gained access capable of producing 
a ' toxin ' or a ptomaine with poisonous properties, and Vaughan 
thinks this form of poisoning is more frequent than that from 
tyrotoxicon. 

Eg'g'S. It is probable that even eggs may at times contain 
micro-organisms capable of causing illness. In the ' Lancet,' 
1905, vol. i. p. 464, is an account of an epidemic of food poi- 
soning occurring in Paris, investigated by MM. Metchnikoff 
and Girard, the implicated food being ' cream cakes.' The 
' cream ' is made by slightly warming the white of eggs and 
adding a mixture of gelatin, sugar, and milk at a temperature 
of 80 C. This mixture should prove an excellent medium for 
the propagation of bacteria and their toxins, and M. Metchnikoff 
considered that the bacteria were derived from the eggs, which, 
he asserts, occasionally contain micro-organisms when laid. 



CHAPTEK XXIII 

EXAMINATION OF MILK AND OTHEE DAIRY PEODUCE 

Milk. Examination for Dirt. If the sample contains any 
visible participate matter, its character may possibly be recog- 
nized by the aid of a hand lens. If not it can be mounted in 
water or dilute glycerine, and examined under the microscope. 
Particles of hair, straw, hay, &c., may thus be recognized 
(Plate V.). 

The quantity of dirt present can be determined by using a 
litre of the milk, taken after thorough agitation, placing it in a 
long cylinder and allowing it to stand for three or four hours. 
The supernatant milk is then syphoned off, leaving about 
25 c.c. at the bottom of the cylinder. To this about half a 
litre of filtered water is added and the mixture again allowed 
to stand for a few hours. This process is repeated until the 
water remains clear, when the deposit is transferred to a tared 
filter, dried and weighed. 

A really clean milk will not yield more than 3 to 5 mlgms. 
of dry residue ; ordinary samples may yield from 10 mlgms. 
or even more, according to the degree of foulness. 

If this test yields much more than 10 mlgms. of dry 
residue, and the microscopic examination of the residue 
obtained by aid of the centrifugal machine shows that it is of 
an objectionable character, the milk may fairly be considered 
unsound and unfit for human consumption. 

In all cases, however, whether there are visible particles or 
not, 10 c.c. or more of the milk taken after agitation should 
be placed in a pointed tube, and submitted to centrifugaliza- 
tion for a few minutes. The cream will then come to the 
top and the particulate matter be deposited in the narrow end 



EXAMINATION OF MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE 1285 

of the tube. Pipette carefully off the cream and reserve for 
further examination, and afterwards as much of the liquid 
as can be removed without disturbing the deposit ; fill up the 
tube with distilled water and again treat in the centrifuge. 
The sediment then can be examined, its amount being 
approximately noted. In a clean good milk the quantity 
should be inappreciable. Spread the sediment evenly over 
the surface of one or more glass slides, and allow to dry 
at a very gentle heat without access of dust. Pass, in the 
usual manner, three times through the flame of a Bunsen 
burner in order to fix the film, and remove the fat by immers- 
ing for a few minutes, first in absolute alcohol, then in ether. 
When the excess of ether has evaporated the film may be 
stained with Loeffler's blue, or with Ehrlich's triacid stain, or 
by Grain's method, or by the Ziehl-Neelsen method, or different 
slides may be differently treated. The Ziehl-Neelsen method 
must be used if tubercle bacilli are being sought for. 

The preparations can now be examined, first with a ^-inch 
objective and afterwards by aid of the ^-inch oil-immer- 
sion lens. 

Examination for Pus Cells. Pus corpuscles may be 
found, and are of the greatest significance if abundant, and 
if blood cells and streptococci are also present the milk must 
be considered actually dangerous to health. The presence of 
blood corpuscles alone, if in any number, should suffice to con- 
demn the milk as unwholesome. 

Stokes and Wegefarth, 1 as the result of their investigations 
on the presence of pus cells in milk, suggest a standard for the 
exclusion of cows from a herd. They say, ' The standard for 
exclusion must of necessity be arbitrary, but following the 
method . . . described, an average of more than five pus cells to 
the field of the oil-immersion lens should exclude an animal 
from the herd.' It does not follow that they would approve 
of the use of milk from a herd in which anything like the 
above number of pus cells could be found. On the contrary, 
1 Journal of State Medicine, vol. v. p. 439. 



286 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

they would regard with suspicion any milk in which pus cells 
were easily found, and suggest an immediate examination of 
the herd. The process adopted by them and referred to above 
is thus described: 'The milk (10 c.c.) is first centrifugalized 
two and a half minutes by means of the Lentz centrifuge. 
The supernatant fluid is then poured off, and the sediment is 
spread evenly over the surface of an ordinary glass slide. 
The specimen is then dried over the flame of a Bunsen burner 
or in a water-oven. Ether is then applied until all superfluous 
fat is removed, and the slide is stained with Loeffler'smethy- 
lene blue. The examinations are made with a one-twelfth 
inch oil-immersion lens.' The question arises, however, as to 
what is a pus cell ? Leucocytes are found in all milks, and 
these Stokes and Wegefarth, and possibly others, seem to regard 
as pus cells. Leucocytes undergoing degenerative change and 
showing two or more distinct nuclei when treated with Ehrlich's 
triacid stain, or when stained with eosin and methylene blue, 
may be regarded as pus cells, and as indicating the presence 
of purulent matter. When present these will be found in the 
centrifugalized deposit associated with streptococci, and often 
also with red blood corpuscles. 

Examination for Streptococci. If not found during the 
examination of the deposit, a little of this may be diffused 
through 1 or 2 c.c. of normal saline solution, and brushed 
over the surface of agar plates. Incubate at 37 C., and 
examine with a lens the colonies as they appear, and pick 
out those which resemble streptococci. When found, the 
character of the particular organism isolated may be worked 
out if deemed desirable. 1 A portion of the culture injected 
into the groin of a guinea-pig will set up active inflammation 
with the formation of pus, in which the streptococci will 
abound. 

Examination for Tubercle Bacilli. The Ziehl-Neelsen 
stain may reveal the presence of bacilli resembling those of 

1 Vide Gordon on the ' Differentiation of Streptococci,' Lancet, Nov. 11, 1905, 
p. 1,400. 



EXAMINATION OF MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE 287 

tubercle in the deposit, but they are much more likely to be 
found in the cream. The result, however, is of little value, 
since the presence of tubercle bacilli can only be affirmed after 
an experiment on guinea-pigs. The deposit obtained from 
100 c.c. or more of the milk by aid of the centrifuge should be 
injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the groin of the animal 
and the effects noted. The rapidity of infection will depend upon 
the virulency of the milk. The inguinal and popliteal glands 
may show signs of enlargement in ten days, or not even until 
the end of a month. When killed, these glands and the spleen 
are examined for the detection of the specific bacilli. 

Examination for Diphtheria Bacilli. The diphtheria ba- 
cillus has rarely, if ever, been isolated directly from milk. If 
present, its detection may be attempted by injecting the deposit 
from 10 to 50 c.c. of the milk into the subcutaneous tissue of 
a guinea-pig, and examining the fluid from the consequent 
cedematous tissue. Portions of this fluid must be used for 
inoculating several tubes of blood serum, and the growths 
examined in the usual way. 

Examination for Organisms of Intestinal Origin. If milk 
is contaminated with an appreciable trace of faecal matter, 
there should be no difficulty in detecting both the Bacillus coli 
communis and the Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes. The former 
is occasionally found when the latter cannot be detected, in 
which case the organism may not actually have been intro- 
duced with a mass of fsecal matter, but with dust from the 
byre. 

To detect the Bacillus coli, dilute 1 c.c. of the milk with 
9 c.c. of sterile water, and make a further dilution with 1 c.c. 
of the mixture and 9 c.c. of sterile water. To a tube of bile- 
salt-lactose-litmus broth add 1 c.c. of undiluted milk, to a second 
1 c.c. of the first dilution, and to a third 1 c.c. of the second 
dilution. Place in the incubator at 37 C. (preferably 42 C.) 
for twenty-four hours, and if fermentation takes place proceed 
as described on p. 252. Should the Bacillus coli be found in 
the highest dilution, it is obvious that the milk contains more 



288 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

than 100 per c.c., a number which would never be found in 
a clean milk. 

The Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes may be detected and 
roughly estimated in the following manner. In a sterile tube 
place 10 c.c. of the milk to be examined, and into two tubes, 
each containing 10 c.c. of sterilized and recently boiled and 
cooled milk, add respectively 1 c.c. of the milk and 1 c.c. of 
a 1 in 10 dilution. Place all the tubes in a water-bath 
at 80 C., and pour over the surface of the milk in each 
sufficient sterile melted vaseline to form a column about half 
an inch in depth. At the end of fifteen minutes remove from 
the water-bath, cool, and place in the incubator at 37 C. for 
three or four days. In the presence of the Bacillus enteritidis 
sporogenes the milk will form a ragged clot, with a pink tint 
at the surface, the serum will be comparatively clear, and the 
vaseline plug will have been forced to the mouth of the tube 
by the gas generated. The liquid will have a strong odour of 
butyric acid, and the serum will be found to swarm with bacilli, 
not bearing spores. In a clean milk the spores of the Bacillus 
enteritidis sporogenes should not be found in 10 c.c. ; the more 
polluted the milk, the smaller is the quantity in which they 
can be detected. 

Oidium Lactis. The oidiurn lactis may be found in sour 
milk, and is possibly identical with the oidium albicans. It is 
more probable, however, that they are distinct species, otherwise 
' thrush/ which is due to the latter, would be far more common. 
A number of cases occurred some time ago in a small com- 
munity, children and adults being affected, which one of us 
thought were possibly due to infected milk. If present, the 
hyphae and spores would be detected by the microscope in 
the deposit from the milk (Plate V.). If very abundant, the 
milk should be regarded as unsound. 

Enumeration of the Bacteria present. To ascertain the 
number of bacteria capable of growing on gelatine present in a 
sample of milk a series of dilutions must be made with sterile 
water. 



EXAMINATION OF MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE 289 



(a.) 1 c.c. of milk to 1 litre of water . . 1 

(b.) 1 c.c. of (a) to 9 of water .... 1 

(c.) 1 c.c. of (b) to 9 of water .... 1 

(d.) 1 c.c. of (c) to 9 of water .... 1 



1,000 
10,000 
100,000 
1,000,000 



One c.c. of each dilution is used for making a gelatine plate, 
and the colonies counted from day to day by aid of a pocket 
lens. The actual number should be taken from those plates 
which are not liquefied, and upon which the colonies are 
countable at the end of the fourth day. The results, when 
two or more plates are counted, are not always concordant, as 
some of the bacteria in the milk occur in minute masses 
which may or may not become diffused during the dilution. 
The average of the numbers may be taken, bat, if the above 
supposition is correct, the highest count may most nearly 
approximate to the truth. 

The substitution of boiled or pasteurized milk for fresh 
milk may be ascertained by the following tests : 

1. To about 10 c.c. of the milk in a test-tube add a few 
drops of tincture of guaiacum ; if the milk turns blue it has not 
been boiled. If no blue tint appears, the milk has possibly 
been heated to or nearly to the boiling point ; but in our hands 
this test appears to be far from reliable. The following give 
much more satisfactory results : 

2. To a similar quantity of the milk add a few drops of a 
1 per cent, solution of hydroquinone (para-dioxybenzine), 
agitate and add, drop by drop, solution of hydrogen peroxide. 
A rose colouration develops in raw milk, but not in milk which 
has been heated to 80 C. or upwards. 

3. To another test-tube containing the milk apply the 
same test as (2), substituting for the hydroquinone a 1 per 
cent, solution of ortho-methyl-aminophenol. Again raw milk 
becomes rapidly rose coloured, whilst milk which has been 
heated to 80 C. or upwards for a short time remains uncoloured. 
If the milk has been kept at 75 C. for half an hour it does not 
acquire a rose tint. 

4. In this test metol is substituted for hydroquinone in 

19 



290 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

(2). Upon the addition of a drop or two of the 20 per cent, 
hydrogen peroxide solution unboiled milk rapidly assumes a 
dirty mauve colour, whilst boiled milk is not affected. 

Milk has probably never been seized merely on account of 
its having become sour. When the lactic acid produced by the 
fermentation of the lactose reaches a certain stage the casein is 
curdled and the milk is unsaleable, but long before this stage 
is reached the milk is unfit for food, especially for infants. 
Probably the odour alone would be sufficient to decide when 
this stage had been reached, a milk with a decidedly sour 
odour being regarded as unsound. Milk containing - 25 per 
cent, of free acid, estimated as lactic acid, will curdle when 
heated to 100 C., and 100 c.c. of such a milk would require 
28 c.c. y^- soda for neutralization. A milk, 100 c.c. of which 
requires 20 c.c. of ^ soda to neutralize its acidity, is decidedly 
sour and more or less unwholesome. Phenol-phthalein is 
usually employed as the indicator in milk titration. 

Condensed Milk. Condensed milk is rarely seized as being 
unwholesome unless the tins containing it are ' blown.' It is 
usually assumed that this is due to the formation of gas by the 
decomposition of the milk by means of bacteria, but this is 
certainly not always the case, since in some cases the milk 
from such tins is found to be absolutely sterile, and in other 
cases in which the tins are not ' blown ' the milk may not prove 
to be sterile. Dodge examined a number of blown tins 
containing sterile milk, and attributed the formation of the gas 
to electrolytic action between the metals of which the cans 
were composed and the acids generated by the growth of 
bacteria in the milk before the latter was condensed. It is a 
question, therefore, whether the presence of a small number of 
' blown ' tins justifies the condemnation of the whole batch of 
which they form a part. 

Cream and Ice-Cream may be examined in the same way as 
milk, after dilution with two or three volumes of filtered water. 

Butter may be examined by adding 1 gram to 50 c.c. of 
filtered water, warming to 35 or 40 C., and agitating until an 



EXAMINATION OF MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE 291 

emulsion is formed. The mixture can then be centrifugalized 
and the deposit examined. Portions of the emulsion may also 
be taken for making gelatine plates, and for the detection of 
certain organisms. In selecting the samples of butter the 
outside of the piece should be avoided, a portion being taken 
from the interior. 

Cheese must be judged by its physical characters, but it 
should be remembered that a condition which would condemn 
one variety may represent the state of perfection in another. 
Excessive mouldiness, associated with a fusty odour, and 
worms and mites penetrating the mass would justify seizure. 
The ' mite ' so common in cheese is the Acarus domesticus, 
whilst the so-called ' worms ' are the larvae of a fly, the 
Piophila casei. On rare occasions cheese has caused ill effects, 
but when this has been the case there has usually been nothing 
in its appearance, odour, or flavour to warn the consumers ; in 
some recorded instances, however, the taste w r as bitter or at 
least unnatural. A cheese with a bitter, rancid, or unnatural 
flavour should, therefore, be regarded with grave suspicion. If 
the odour is decidedly putrid the cheese must be unwholesome, 
but care must be taken not to confound putridity with the 
peculiar change some cheeses undergo in the process of ripen- 
ing. This change, which renders certain kinds of cheese 
disgusting to some persons, causes others to regard them as 
being in the perfection of condition, and as a great delicacy. 
The method for detecting tyrotoxicon in milk and cheese will be 
found in the section relating to the examination for ptomaines 
and toxins. 

NOTE. Whilst these pages have been passing through the press the Medical 
Officer of Health to the London County Council has presented a report, prepared 
by Dr. Houston, on ' The Bacteriological Examination of Milk,' in which he 
describes the processes adopted in examining about 100 samples of milk from 
different sources, and makes certain tentative suggestions as to standards. The 
report also contains diagrams of the apparatus used. 



CHAPTEE XXIV 

UNSOUND FOOD. FEUIT, VEGETABLES, AND COBN 

Ripe fruits usually begin to suffer change, chiefly of a fermenta- 
tive character, soon after being gathered, especially if of a 
pulpy nature, or if bruised, and readily become affected by 
moulds. If markedly mouldy or if the fermentative processes 
are advanced the fruit should be considered ' unsound.' The 
conditions under which a large proportion of fruit is gathered 
during the season render it surprising that more cases of 
specific disease have not been reported as due to the fruit 
having become infected. Probably fruit does not form a 
favourable culture medium for pathogenic germs. The 
ordinary fermentative changes which are observed in fruits 
apparently do not give rise to deleterious substances, or not 
until decomposition is so far advanced that the fruit is unsale- 
able. Toxins may undoubtedly be formed bycatabolic changes 
in the proteid constituents of fruit, but, as far as we are aware, 
no investigations have been made on the subject. 

As mentioned elsewhere, preservatives are frequently added 
to fruit and fruit products to prevent fermentation and the 
growth of moulds. It is scarcely conceivable that the spores 
either of moulds or of bacteria could withstand the boiling 
which the fruit undergoes in jam-making, but in transferring 
from the pans to jars, and in the process of covering, &c., 
yeasts, moulds, or bacteria may gain access, and in the absence 
of antiseptics set up fermentative or other changes. 

Vegetables. In connection with vegetables eaten in an 
uncooked condition, such as water-cress, lettuce, and celery, two 
classes of disease have been reported : namely, typhoid fever 



UNSOUND FOOD. FBUIT, VEGETABLES, AND COEN 293 

and hydatid disease. Many water-cress beds are liable to sewage 
pollution, and an epidemic of typhoid fever appears to have 
arisen from water-cress grown in certain beds in Essex. In 
1903 Dr. J. King Warry, 1 Medical Officer of Health for Hackney, 
reported that 110 cases of typhoid fever arose during the 
months of June, July, and August, a considerable proportion of 
the patients having partaken of water-cress from certain beds. 
Two waves of disease occurred ; in the first, there were forty-eight 
cases within a radius of one-third of a mile of a certain centre, 
64'4 per cent, having eaten water-cress at a period fitting in with 
the usual incubation period of the disease. The second wave 
involved some sixty-two persons within a radius of half a mile 
of another centre, and of these 55 g 3 per cent, had eaten water- 
cress. It will be noticed that the months (June to August) are 
not those in which typhoid fever is most common, and some 
especial cause was, therefore, indicated. Seventeen different 
samples of water-cress were submitted to bacteriological 
examination (six of them being derived from West Ham), and 
all of them were found to be polluted by sewage organisms. A 
sample of water from one of the West Ham beds contained no 
less than fifty specimens of B. coli communis per c.c. 

Hydatid disease, due to the cystic form of Taenia 
echinococcus, has already been described. Though not very 
common in England, patients so suffering are admitted from 
time to time to the hospitals for operations. It is obviously 
impossible to trace the exact sources of infection, but from the 
known history of the parasite there is little doubt that the ova 
have been conveyed to some vegetable articles of food usually 
eaten in a raw state, such as water- cress and celery, by the 
faeces of dogs or other animals, which act as hosts to the tape- 
worm. 

Mushrooms are, in the autumn, a very favourite article of 
food, and rarely a season passes without cases of mushroom 
poisoning being recorded. These cases differ very much in 
character, and it is impossible to say whether they arise from 

1 Lancet, 1903, ii. p. 1,671. 



294 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

the accidental admixture of poisonous fungi with the true 
mushrooms or from some abnormal quality of the mushrooms 
themselves. In any case mushrooms admixed with other 
fungi of unknown character should not be sold, and mush- 
rooms presenting decided signs of decomposition or any other 
abnormal character should not be used for human food. The 
edible mushroom, Agaricus campestris, and its varieties, may 
be recognized from the following description, and any fungi 
not corresponding thereto should not be permitted to be sold as 
mushrooms. It has a characteristic pleasant odour, the cap 
is fleshy and fairly thick compared with the gills, and its upper 
white surface is speckled with grey. It ' peels ' ver) r easily. 
The stalk grows from the centre of the cap, and does not 
produce any milky juice. Upon keeping the head does not 
become soft and wet. The gills vary in colour from a pale 
yellow-brown to a blackish-brown, and they are free from the 
stalk. 

Many fungi are undoubtedly poisonous. Thus the Amanita 
muscaria, or fly fungus, contains the toxic alkaloid muscarine, 
which is allied to the ptomaines (vide p. 309). The Amanita 
phalloides contains a poisonous principle closely related to 
the toxins. Most fungi contain a rather large proportion 
of proteid matter, that in the edible mushroom averaging 
about 17 per cent. Possibly in some cases this may under- 
go a change with the production of ptomaines or toxins, and 
as this change may not have occurred in all alike, certain 
mushrooms may be poisonous and others not. This would 
explain those cases in which in a family partaking of the 
fungus some members have afterwards exhibited symptoms of 
poisoning and others have not. Personal idiosyncrasy may in 
some instances be a possible explanation. 

In many cases vomiting and diarrhosa supervene soon after 
the mushrooms are eaten, and the poison is eliminated. 
Usually, however, the symptoms do not appear for some hours, 
or not until the day following. These symptoms may be of 
the gastro-enteric or neurotic type, or possibly both may be 



UNSOUND FOOD. FEUIT, VEGETABLES, AND COEN 295 

present in the same patient. Dixon Mann l gives the follow- 
ing description of these symptoms : 

' Gastn>enteric symptoms may not appear for six or ten 
hours after the fungi are eaten, and not unfrequently they are 
still further delayed. A feeling of uneasiness in the stomach 
gradually develops into pain, with a hard, tender condition of 
the abdomen, nausea is experienced, and then vomiting, which 
is followed by diarrhoaa. The vomiting and diarrhosa are 
not solely due to the immediate presence of the irritant, but to 
the condition set up by it in the gastro-intestinal mucous 
membrane ; therefore they do not at once subside when all the 
fragments of fungi are discharged. The enteric derangement is 
further shown by the character of the evacuations, which are 
serous, like rice-water, and contain flakes of lymph, and 
sometimes blood ; notwithstanding treatment, the diarrhosa 
and vomiting may persist for several days. Great thirst, 
prostration, shrinking of the tissues, livid countenance, cold 
surface, small pulse, and laboured respiration are the natural 
results of the excessive drain on the blood ; exceptionally 
jaundice may occur. 

' These symptoms may directly lead to death, with or with- 
out the appearance of any special nerve complications, or they 
may subside, and recovery may take place. 

' Neurotic symptoms comprise muscular twitchings, general 
convulsions or tetanic spasms, delirium, disorders of the 
special senses especially of vision, with dilatation of the pupils, 
and stupor, or profound coma. In some cases the symptoms 
are solely neurotic : such cases present all the appearances of 
certain forms of alkaloidal poisoning.' 

Possibly mushrooms may cause a train of symptoms of an 
entirely different character, to which attention has recently 
been directed by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson in a letter to the 
' British Medical Journal.' He says, ' It is, I believe, generally 
supposed that if a fungus disagrees it does so by causing 
stomach and bowel symptoms, and that the onset of these is 

1 Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, p. 645. 



296 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

speedy. Neither of these statements is true. The symptoms 
of fungus poisoning vary exceedingly in character (as probably 
do the poisons which excite them), and it is a most peculiar 
feature in some of them that their incidence may be delayed 
for very considerable periods. This latter circumstance ha 
no doubt led to the non-recognition of the true cause of many 
attacks of illness which were really due to meals which had 
been taken several days previously.' He then asks, ' Putting 
aside all cases of mere stomach and bowel disturbance, which 
are common enough and easily assigned to their causes, have 
cases been met with frequently during the last few months in 
which the principal symptom has been severe pain, referred 
chiefly to the walls of the chest and abdomen, without sickness 
or diarrhosa ? The pain in the cases to which I refer is very 
severe and peculiar, and is never described as griping, and it is 
such as to suggest to the surgeon the passage of a gall stone, 
and it is sometimes followed by slight jaundice and bile in the 
urine, which may seem to confirm that suspicion. There is 
never, however, any special tenderness over the gall bladder, 
and sickness may be wholly absent. I have good reason to 
believe that the whole group may be caused by sound mush- 
rooms, and that there may have been an interval of forty-eight 
hours or more between the meal and the first occurrence of 
pain, during which time the unsuspecting victim may have felt 
in perfect health.' 

Dr. Plo wright believes that practically all the deaths which 
occur in this country from the eating of fungi are caused by the 
consumption of one species, and one species only, and that 
they result from the mistaking of this particular species for 
the common mushroom, which it to a certain extent resembles. 
This is the Amanita phalloides, already referred to as contain- 
ing a powerful toxin, to which the name phallin has been 
given. The following description of this very poisonous fungus 
is by Dr. Plowright. 1 'A phalloides is never anything else 
but white under the cap, where everybody knows the mushroom 
1 British Medical Journal, September 9, 1905. 



UNSOUND FOOD. FEUIT, VEGETABLES, AND COEN 297 

is pink, purplish brown, or almost black. On the top phalloides 
is frequently nearly white, but one can always see traces of 
yellowish green, especially about the margin. The stem of 
the mushroom is nearly cylindrical that is, nearly as thick 
above as it is below but the stem of phalloides is always 
bulbous, and springs out of a cup made by the upper part of 
the bulb, the so-called "poison cup." It peels almost as well 
as the common mushroom.' 

Eighteen deaths have been recorded from the use of this 
fungus since 1900 in France alone. 

Cereals. The parasites which may affect wheat and wheaten 
flour, rendering it unfit for food, are of two classes, animal and 
vegetable. Of the former the corn weevil (Calandra granaria), 
the meal mite (Acarus farinas), and the ear cockle (Vibrio 
or Tilletia tritici) (Plate VI.) are the commonest. The 
weevil attacks the shell of the grains and abstracts the flour 
while the corn is standing. The ear cockle likewise affects the 
standing corn ; the grains become misshapen, greenish, and 
subsequently black ; they are filled with a white cotton-like 
substance, which, when moistened and examined under a 
microscope, is found to consist of the larval form of the worm 
in a state of activity. The Acarus farinae, which bears a 
superficial resemblance to the Acarus scabiei, is found in damp 
flour, which should then be regarded with suspicion as possibly 
unwholesome. 

The vegetable parasites (Plates VI. VII. and VIII.) include 
Penicillium glaucum, Aspergillus giaucus, Mucor mucedo, 
Puccinia grarninis (rust), Ustilago segetum (smut), Tilletia 
caries (bunt), and Claviceps purpurea (ergot). The first three 
common moulds occur in damp grain, indicating that it is 
unfit for food. Bust attacks many varieties of corn. A spore 
attaches itself to the grain, sending filaments into the interior 
from which is developed a dense mycelium, and as the result 
of its growth the cuticle ruptures, and the spores are found 
on the surface as 'rust.' Smut and bunt attack growing 
corn in a similar manner, replacing the starch grains by 



298 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

mycelia and spores. Smut chiefly affects barley and oats, 
and bunt affects wheat. Claviceps purpurea, which attacks 
rye, is a more important parasite from the medical point of 
view, as if present in any quantity it is capable of giving 
rise to ergotism. The ascospores of this parasite are carried 
to the rye flowers by the wind, and form a mycelium 
of delicate hyphae in the ovaries. As the grain ripens the 
hyphae invade and absorb the whole of the starch, until the 
mycelial growth bursts through the pericarp and appears like 
a spur, two or three times the size of the rye grain, projecting 
from the spike. It finally becomes dissociated from the grain 
and falls to the ground. The ergot grains are purple externally, 
whilst the interior is of a cream colour, consisting of a dense 
network of hyphae. Two varieties of ergotism are generally 
distinguished, the spasmodic or convulsive, and the gangrenous, 
according to the symptoms which predominate. The first 
variety, which is more common in children, is acute in 
character, the initial vomiting being followed by colic, purging, 
and convulsions, often quickly ending in death. In the 
gangrenous form, dry gangrene, due to the action of ergot on 
the blood-vessels, is the predominating symptom, and may be 
preceded by an erysipelatous flush, and be accompanied by 
intense pain. Ergotism in its epidemic form is now almost 
extinct, though it is by no means uncommon in Eussia. Pel- 
lagra, occasionally met with in North Italy, Eoumania, France, 
and North Spain, is due to the action of 'verdet,' the spores of 
Eeticularia ustilago, on maize (Plate VIII.) . The symptoms 
consist chiefly of digestive disturbances, and patches of ery- 
thema, occurring principally on surfaces exposed to the sun. 
In severe cases petechiae, bullae, and ulcers may arise, to be 
followed by paralysis of the limbs. After recurring attacks 
melancholia or mania may supervene, whilst tremors and 
epileptiform seizures are not uncommon. 

Lathyrism is a rare disease, occurring, among other 
places, in the departments of Loire and Chur, in Abruzzi, 
and in Allahabad. It is apparently associated with certain 



UNSOUND FOOD. FKUIT, VEGETABLES, AND COEN 299 

fermentative changes in the Chick Pea or allied pulses, the 
chief symptoms being those of spinal paralysis, principally 
affecting the lower part of the cord. 

Formerly it was not uncommon to find seeds of Darnel 
grass (Plate VII.) mixed with flour, accidentally or fraudulently, 
and as a result cases of poisoning have occurred, the symptoms 
being giddiness, tremors, vomiting, and convulsions. The starch 
granules resemble those of wheat, but the testas of the two 
grains show considerable differences. Pure flour, when mixed 
with alcohol, forms a straw-coloured fluid, whilst if Darnel 
grass is present, there is a greenish solution possessing a repul- 
sive taste, and, on evaporation, a resinous yellow-green extract 
is left (Parkes). 

Mouldy flour (Plate VIII.) is rightly considered to be unfit 
for food, though as far as we are aware no cases of illness, 
comparable with those produced by flesh foods, have been 
definitely traced to spoilt flour, but it is extremely probable 
that it is capable of causing gastro-intestinal disturbance. 
Mouldy bread is known to have caused illness, and deaths 
have been attributed to the use of mouldy black bread. 

Although illness is rarely traced to the use of cereals, it is 
possible that the omission is due more to defective observation 
than to any immunity from disease-producing powers possessed 
by such foods. In the Ohio Hospital for Epileptics, Gallipolis, 
U.S.A., an epidemic characterized by gastro-intestinal disturb- 
ance occurred in 1901, 218 of the inmates being affected. The 
cause was believed to be a batch of oatmeal which had been 
contaminated by dust derived from the road. A bacteriological 
examination of the flour indicated the presence of the B. coli 
communis and of the Proteus vulgaris. 1 

Maize, (Plate VIII.), corn, rice, &c., occasionally arrive in 
this country in an unsound condition, chiefly damaged by damp. 
Such materials may not be considered fit for human food, 
but they are rarely so affected as not to be usable by cattle, 
and their use for feeding purposes may be permitted. 
1 Public Health, xv. p. 279. 



300 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Meals and flours may on occasions require further exam- 
ination. There are many varieties prepared in this country or 
imported from abroad, differing in the degree of fineness to 
which they are reduced, and in the portions which have been 
removed by sifting. Some also have been exposed to heat so 
as to render more or less of the starch soluble, and instead of 
being reduced to powder may merely have been crushed by 
passing between rollers. 

A microscopical examination is only necessary where the 
odour, taste, or appearance of the flour indicates something 
abnormal. Under a low power search may be made for meal 
mites, Vibrio tritici, &c., and a little higher power used for 
the spores of moulds and fungi. If any appreciable number of 
the above organisms are found, the meal should be considered 
unsound. The same would apply if ergot is detected. Every 
flour must contain some small proportion of foreign seeds, the 
amount depending upon the cleansing of the corn. It is very 
doubtful, however, whether the seeds of any poisonous weed 
can be present in such quantity as to do harm. No recent 
record of any such instance is discoverable. 

The cereals and their flours, whilst frequently attacked by 
moulds, do not appear to be favourable for the propagation of 
bacilli. Klein and Houston, for instance, found that typhoid 
and diphtheria bacilli and the vibrio of cholera soon died off in 
media composed of the flours of wheat, oatmeal, and rice. 1 
The same observers examined six samples of wheat, six of oats, 
and two of rice obtained from wholesale firms. Spores of B. 
enteritidis sporogenes were present in each case, whilst bacilli 
resembling a typical species of B. coli communis were detected 
in many of the samples of wheat and oats. 2 The source from 
which these organisms, usually considered to indicate sewage 
pollution, is derived is uncertain. Possibly they were intro- 
duced through dust derived from the streets. 

Bread is only likely to be unsound from having been kept 
until stale and mouldy, and in this condition is not likely to be 

1 Local Government Board Report, 1900-1. 2 Ibid. 1899-1900. 



UNSOUND FOOD. FEUIT, VEGETABLES, AND COEN 301 

exposed for sale, though it may become an ingredient in such 
prepared articles as sausages, when mould, &c., if present would 
be detected by the microscope. 

Baking does not thoroughly sterilize bread, and bacteria 
and moulds may be cultivated from the central portions of a 
loaf. These, doubtless, are in most cases derived from the 
flour, but their number maybe increased by insanitary methods 
of kneading, baking, &c. Cockroaches infest many bakehouses, 
and it is not an uncommon occurrence to find portions of these 
animals in bread. Probably such a condition, implying care- 
lessness and want of cleanliness on the part of the baker, 
would justify the opinion that the bread was unsound. 

Fruit unsaleable in the open market is frequently sent to 
the jam factory, and it is often difficult to decide whether it is 
wholesome or not. In transit the softer fruits become pulpy 
and fermentation commences, but this alone is not sufficient in 
our opinion to justify seizure. If a fair proportion of the fruit 
appears to be rotten, or mouldy, or infested with maggots, it is 
certainly unfit for food. During certain seasons the raspberry 
is infested with the caterpillar of the raspberry moth (Lampronia 
rubiella), and the fruit contains so many of them, that one of 
us has not hesitated to condemn large quantities of imported 
fruit on this account. After being made into jam it is impossible 
to detect the presence of such foreign matter, but moulds 
and their spores may often be recognized, the boiling process 
having failed to effect complete disintegration (Plate VIII.). 
Probably by a microscopical examination the fact that the jam 
had been made from mouldy fruit could be ascertained. A 
layer of mould may have formed upon the surface of the pre- 
serve, but if the contents of the jar are otherwise sound this 
has no significance ; it certainly would not justify seizure. 

Tinned fruits and vegetables rarely require microscopical or 
bacteriological examination, and it is well to remember that 
such fruits, &c., are not always absolutely sterile. Probably 
spores may have resisted the action of the preserving process, 
and so long as these have not developed in the food, but have 



302 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

remained quiescent, their presence does not necessarily imply 
unsoundness, and unless it can be shown that they are spores 
of an organism likely to injuriously affect the health of the 
consumer, seizure would be unwarranted. 

Articles of vegetable origin rarely require more than a 
physical examination ; usually the appearance alone is sufficient 
guide, though where the normal appearance is lost there will 
generally also be some difference observed in colour, taste, or 
odour, confirming the fact that the food has become unsound. 
Fruits, dried or undried, found in a damaged condition, may be 
unfit for human consumption ; the greater the change from the 
normal, the more likely is the food to be deleterious. The 
presence of moulds or of fungoid growth indicates a degree of 
change sufficient to render the food unwholesome. It is very 
difficult to come to a decision when a portion only of the fruit 
is unsound, as when a small number of the bananas on a 
bunch are rotten, the remainder being fully ripe. If there is 
sufficient in a good condition to pay for the whole being 
picked over, there is no reason why this should not be per- 
mitted. To destroy, say, a whole cargo because a portion 
is bad is scarcely justifiable. Some articles arrive in this 
country in an uncleansed condition, and in such a state they 
are unfit for use ; but the manufacturer has the material so 
treated as to remove all the foreign matters, when the re- 
mainder becomes perfectly wholesome. 



CHAPTEK XXV 

FOOD-POISONING 

IN the great majority of cases flesh food is seized on account 
of its exhibiting signs of incipient decomposition, and it is 
frequently found that this change is taking place more rapidly 
than usual because the animal from which the flesh was 
derived was suffering from some disease, or prior to slaughter 
had been in a very exhausted condition. Flesh exhibiting 
these early signs of putrefactive change should be unhesi- 
tatingly condemned, the risk of poisoning being too great for 
us to depend upon cooking to render the food wholesome. 

It will be found, however, in the following pages, that on 
many occasions food, apparently perfectly wholesome, has after 
cooking developed poisonous properties, and that preserved 
cooked food frequently gives rise to cases of so-called ' ptomaine ' 
poisoning. In fact, most of the cases which have come to our 
knowledge have been due to the eating of tinned meats, but 
as such outbreaks, as a rule, only infect members of one 
family, and rarely prove fatal, they are not recorded, though 
occasionally they are noticed in the local press. 

Few of the larger outbreaks of food-poisoning have been 
attributed to preserved foods, but, as has been stated, most of 
the smaller" outbreaks have been due to the use of such foods, 
tinned meats and fish being especially prone to cause illness. 
In probably all cases this has been due to some change which 
has taken place in the food after it has undergone the preserving 
process, and it is difficult to see how sufficient supervision 
can be exercised to prevent these cases occurring. It is 
impossible to ascertain whether the meat was sufficiently 



304 

sterilized, or whether the food was in a fit state for consump- 
tion before the containing vessels were sealed, and unless the 
tins are 'blown,' the inspector rarely has any reason for seizing 
them and making a further examination. When the ends of 
the tins are convex outwards, and gas issues from a prick made 
in the end, the can being preferably under water, there can be 
no question that some decomposition has taken place, and that 
the food is unsound and should be seized and condemned. An 
unscrupulous dealer may prick the blown tins, and after re- 
heating, seal them up again. Any tin which has been twice 
soldered should therefore be regarded with suspicion. Where 
illness has been caused by the consumption of such food, the 
inspector would be justified in purchasing other tins from the 
same vendor and examining them, provided there were 
sufficient grounds for assuming that the meat had not been 
infected after removal from the receptacle in which it had 
been sold. 

After opening the tins the surface of the meat and the 
condition of the jelly should be carefully examined. Any 
abnormal odour or taste or appearance, especially if associated 
with liquefaction of the jelly, would indicate unsoundness, 
and therefore that the food was dangerous for use by man. 
Many cases of ptomaine-poisoning from tinned meats have 
occurred in which it has been declared that nothing abnormal 
was observed, but in other cases some peculiarity was noted, 
such as a ' soapy ' taste, a sickly odour, discolouration of the 
flesh, or liquefaction of the jelly. 

Meat from all kinds of animals has given rise to cases of 
poisoning. In many instances, especially on the Continent, 
the flesh has been found to be derived from an animal suffering 
from disease, but in the majority of cases such an origin has 
not been traced. 

The flesh of swine is responsible for a large number of the 
serious outbreaks of food-poisoning which have occurred both 
in this country and on the Continent. In Germany the pork 
has usually been consumed in the form of sausages, but as 



POOD-POISONING 305 

blood and the internal organs of animals are often used in the 
manufacture of such delicacies it is not always easy to deter- 
mine which constituent is responsible for the ill effects pro- 
duced. Dr. Ballard ' investigated fourteen outbreaks in this 
country. Ten of these were due to pig-meat of one kind or 
another, one was due to veal, one to beef, one to butchers' 
meat (kind unstated), and one to tinned salmon. 

As early as 1888, the Medical Officer of the Local Govern- 
ment Board said (19th Keport, p. 13) : ' The phenomena which 
we speak of as " food-poisoning," productive now of one and 
now of another sort of definite malady among consumers of 
certain foods, are claiming, on ever-growing evidence, to be 
regarded as true infective diseases, as much so as scarlatina 
or tuberculosis.' In other words, he regarded these outbreaks 
as being due to the action of specific organisms, and Dr. 
Ballard, as the result of his later investigations, supports this 
view, regarding ' the accession of the specific bacillus as what 
we commonly call "accidental," which,' he says, 'means that 
in this case it comes from somewhere beyond our present 
knowledge.' Below will be found a brief account of the more 
interesting outbreaks described by Dr. Ballard. For more 
complete details the original report may be consulted. 

One of the most interesting of these outbreaks followed 
the use of tinned meat and occurred at Oldham. A shop- 
keeper opened a 7-lb. tin of American pigs' tongues, and 
within half an hour effected three sales of a quarter-pound 
each, all from the top of the tin. No more was sold, since 
the remainder was seized by the sanitary authority and used 
for analysis and experiment. All the persons who partook of 
the portions sold were almost immediately nauseated, and 
most of them suffered from diarrho3a and subsequent collapse. 
The collapse was greatest when the patient suffered least from 
diarrhoea, and the most severe case was that of a person who 
had no diarrhoea. Those who ate the first slice of the meat 
suffered most severely. Dr. Klein fed a number of animals 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1890. 

20 



306 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

with the remainder of the meat without injury. Dr. Ballard l 
therefore concludes, ' either that the poison that so severely 
affected persons eating meat from this tin had disappeared 
from the material by keeping a few days, or it had been 
originally confined to that end of the tin which was first 
cut from. It is noteworthy that, in this case, there was 
something obviously wrong with the meat, since it is stated 
that ' one purchaser, finding the food bad, threw it away.' 

The Whitchurch outbreak, also referred to by Dr. Ballard, 
is interesting from the fact that roast leg of pork was eaten 
hot on Sunday for dinner, and cold for supper, without pro- 
ducing illness, but when eaten cold on Monday it made the 
people ill. Two persons died from its effects after thirty hours' 
illness. 

Another interesting outbreak referred to by Dr. Ballard 
occurred at Retford, eighty persons being attacked, one case 
proving fatal. The pork was made into pies and brawn. 
With the exception of one family, none who ate of this food- 
stuff on the first day after cooking were taken ill, and none 
who ate it the fourth day after cooking. 

In the Portsmouth outbreak, due to cold meat pies, the 
pies when first received by Dr. Klein proved poisonous to mice, 
but five days later, when the material had become offensive 
from putrefaction, they were no longer toxic. 

The largest and most extraordinary outbreak recorded 
occurred in 1888 at Middlesbrough, when some hundreds of 
persons were attacked with pleuro-pneumonia, and many 
died. Ballard, as the result of a most painstaking investiga- 
tion, came to the conclusion that it was due to the use of 
American bacon, all the samples collected proving poisonous 
to rodents. 

Ballard suggests that pigs' meat owes its unenviable pre- 
eminence as a cause of food-poisoning to the fact that it 
furnishes a large proportion of gelatine, jelly being a most 
favourable medium for the growth of pathogenic bacteria. His. 
1 Local Government Board, Report of Medical Officer, 1890. 



FOOD-POISONING 307 

final conclusion, on summing up the whole matter, is eminently 
practical. He says : s "What does it all indicate as an efficient 
precaution against food-poisoning ? Of course no one is likely 
to be hindered by any fear of infection from eating cold ham or 
gelatinized food of any kind, if he likes them, But if we do 
eat ham or bacon, cold or warm, it is a proper precaution to 
avoid them if not duly cooked throughout. The people who 
chiefly got pneumonia in Middlesbrough were a class who 
habitually only warmed the bacon they ate, by slightly toasting 
it before a fire ; they did not heat it sufficiently to kill any 
micro-organism, and hotel hams (indeed hams cooked at home 
too) are rarely thoroughly cooked. But the grand precaution 
of all is the very commonplace one, signified by the word 
cleanliness. Every factory where pork is converted into brawn 
or hams ought to be so arranged that light and a draught of 
air can penetrate freely everywhere ; there should be no corners 
where refuse matter can lodge and become a centre for the 
cultivation of morbid micro-organisms in filth, the rise of 
ground air should be obviated by cement under the pavement 
or flooring, the place should be kept scrupulously clean, and 
free from incursion of sewer air or unwholesome emanations of 
any kind. Kitchens, and above all pantries and places where 
food is stored in hotels, public refreshment rooms, or pastry- 
cooks' premises, and in private houses, should be similarly 
cared for. It should be held to be part of the business of con- 
servators of public health to see that these rules are observed, 
as well as the business of every master or mistress of a 
family.' 

The immediate causes of these epidemics of ' food-poisoning ' 
have only been investigated with any degree of completeness 
in comparatively recent years, and until lately the classification 
of the associated bacteria has been very imperfect ; but the 
work of Gartner, Van Ermengem, Klein, Delepine, Durham, 
and others, has thrown a considerable amount of light on this 
somewhat obscure subject. 

All proteid matter, whether of animal or vegetable origin, 



308 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

when suffering decomposition gives rise to the formation of 
small quantities of bodies possessing the chemical properties 
of the alkaloids, and to these chemical entities of animal origin 
the name of ' ptomaines ' was given by Selmi. Those derived 
from the cadaver were first discovered by Gautier in 1872, 
and a large number of them have since been isolated, and those 
having very definite chemical or physiological properties have 
received names. Long before the actual isolation of these 
alkaloids it had been remarked that in many cases of poisoning 
by decomposing or unwholesome meat the symptoms resembled 
those caused by certain vegetable alkaloids. Thus, in 1820, 
Kerner noticed that persons who had been poisoned by eating 
certain sausages presented the symptoms of poisoning by 
belladonna, the active principle of which is the alkaloid 
atropia. Since the discovery of the ' ptomaines ' the majority 
of cases of food-poisoning has been accredited to the action of 
these alkaloids, hence the frequency of so-called ptomaine- 
poisoning. When this term is used, the inference is that the 
ptomaines already existed in the food eaten, produced during 
some change the food had undergone, and to such cases, 
strictly speaking, should the term be restricted. In many 
cases, however, the poisonous substances are produced after- 
wards in the body, by the action of microbes introduced into 
the stomach with the food. The patient is as certainly 
poisoned in the one case as in the other, but, the processes 
being different, they should have different names. The former 
is an 'intoxication,' the latter an 'infection.' Keferring to the 
production of ' ptomaines ' and their virulence, Brunton states 
that ' The alkaloid products formed by the putrefaction of 
albuminous substances vary according to the stage of decay at 
which they are produced. At first the poisonous action of these 
products may be slight. As decomposition advances the poison 
becomes more virulent, but after a longer period they appear 
to become broken up, and lose to a great extent their poisonous 
power.' It must not be assumed, however, that poisonous 
substances are only formed when the decomposition is of a 



FOOD-POISONING 309 

putrid character, as such is certainly not the case. Neither is 
the presence of bacteria absolutely essential for the production 
of ptomaines, as Brieger has isolated an alkaloid from the 
products formed when fibrin is digested by means of pepsin, 
and in many cases of ptomaine-poisoning the food has exhibited 
none of the usual signs of incipient putrefaction. Almost 
certainly also ptomaines and allied substances are being con- 
tinuously formed within the body, but health is maintained so 
long as these are non-toxic or are not produced in quantities 
greater than the system is capable of eliminating. 

The more poisonous ptomaines which have received names 
are muscarine, neurine, choline, mydaleine, and sepsine. Accord- 
ing to Brunton, muscarine, neurine, and choline have a similar 
action, muscarine being the most and choline the least power- 
ful. All produce ' salivation, diarrhoea, vomiting, dyspnoea, 
paralysis and death.' Mydaleine causes a rise of temperature, 
' dilatation of the pupil, enormous secretion of tears, saliva, 
and sweat, vomiting, diarrhoea, paralysis, convulsions, twitch- 
ing, dyspnoea, coma and death.' Sepsine causes ' vomiting, 
diarrhoea, and bloody stools.' Other alkaloids resembling 
atropine and curare have been isolated, and from putrid maize 
a substance can be obtained with a narcotic and tetanic action, 
but Brunton thinks these effects may be due to two distinct 
alkaloids. 

It is exceedingly doubtful, however, whether the ptomaines 
ever occur in food-products in sufficient quantity to produce 
poisonous effects. In practically all cases, when a substance is 
being examined for ptomaines, it is found that the liquid 
containing them is far more poisonous than the alkaloids 
isolated therefrom, and many ptomaines which have been 
isolated have little if any deleterious effect upon the system. 
It is not surprising, therefore, that many now hold the opinion 
that the term ptomaine-poisoning is a misnomer, and that the 
poisons produced in food-stuffs from the proteid matter therein 
are not of the nature of alkaloids. To these poisons the 
generic term of ' toxins ' has been applied, and they appear to 



310 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

be more nearly related to such active principles as ricin and 
abrin occurring in certain plants, and with venin, the active 
principle occurring in the venom of various species of snakes, 
the chemical nature of which remains as yet unknown. 

The toxins produced by bacteria are probably not all of 
the same nature, but belong to different groups, some being 
comparable with ferments, and others with the albumoses, 
bodies formed at an early stage in various digestive processes. 
Uschinsky's researches indicate that some, if not all, the toxins 
are synthetic rather than analytic products, as he has succeeded 
in preparing virulent toxins by growing bacteria in fluids free 
from proteid matter. 

Certain bacteria, after death, are found to be extremely 
toxic, and in such cases the toxin must be contained within 
the bodies of the organisms. These are called ' intracellular ' 
toxins to distinguish them from the toxins found in the fluids 
in which bacteria are developing. 

The poisons produced in culture media may be first formed 
within the body of the bacteria, and then be excreted or pass 
into the liquid only upon the death and disintegration of the 
micro-organisms producing them. On the other hand the 
culture fluid may become extremely toxic, whilst the bacteria 
themselves remain practically free from the poison. The 
toxins appearing under such circumstances are called ' extra- 
cellular.' In some cases the toxin contained in the bodies of 
the bacteria differs in its properties from that produced in the 
culture medium, the organism apparently producing two 
distinct toxins, one intracellular and the other extracellular. 
Some of the toxins as, for example, that of tetanus are in- 
comparably more deadly than any known alkaloid. When in- 
troduced into the system the symptoms of poisoning may not 
occur immediately, in fact they may be delayed for many 
hours ; hence the question arises whether these are not bodies 
allied to ferments, possessing little if any toxic power in them- 
selves, but capable of the continuous production of powerful 
poisons when introduced into the system. At present, how- 



FOOD-POISONING 311 

ever, it is generally held that there is no decisive evidence to 
prove that any poison is so produced, and the delay in the 
production of symptoms admits of other explanation. 

Whatever the nature of the poisons it is evident that the 
pathogenic bacteria may produce them : (a) in the food before 
its consumption ; (b) in the body after the food has been 
eaten ; or (c) they may produce a certain amount of poison 
in the food, and afterwards continue the production of poison 
after ingestion. In case of (a), and possibly in that of (c), 
the poison may admit of isolation from the food, providing 
sufficient remains for this purpose, whereas in (b) no poison 
would be found in the food, though the organism producing 
it might be detected, and its ability to produce ptomaines or 
toxins ascertained by experiment. 

The symptoms due to eating food in a state of decomposi- 
tion are probably caused in some instances by the bacterial 
products, formed in the food-material prior to ingestion, and 
therefore are true ' intoxications ' ; but the large and serious 
epidemics of meat-poisoning, which have been recorded both 
in England and on the Continent, are more frequently of 
the nature of 'infections.' In the absence of a complete 
bacteriological and chemical examination it is not always 
possible to draw a distinction between the two processes, and 
the probability of both toxins and organisms being present 
together must be borne in mind. The chief criterion usually 
cited for drawing a distinction between the two processes is 
the presence or absence of an appreciable ' incubation period,' 
but this period in the case of certain infections may not 
exceed a few hours, whilst, in the presence of both bacteria 
and their toxins, symptoms due to the latter may be noticed 
almost immediately to be subsequently merged into those 
due to the infection. A temperature of 60 C. should be 
sufficient to destroy most of the bacteria known to be asso- 
ciated with meat- poisoning, whilst toxins are likely to be more 
resistant, many of them retaining their properties after boiling ; 
but it has frequently been shown that the interior of a pie or 



312 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

other article of food may not reach the temperature mentioned, 
even though the food has been subjected to a process of 
cooking, hence in cooked foods the ill effects may be due to 
bacteria which have escaped the action of the heat. 

Durham ! lays considerable stress on the association of meat- 
poisoning with bacteria rather than with their products ; and 
he points out that the dose of toxin necessary to produce the 
symptoms recorded would require to be a large one, and that in 
nearly every instance in which an outbreak has been investigated 
bacteriologically, certain special organisms have been found. 

With reference to food-intoxication, Martin 2 indicates that 
when putrefaction of meat takes place, there is a formation of 
gas, such as carbonic acid, hydrogen, nitrogen, sulphuretted 
hydrogen, and marsh gas ; of acids, such as formic, acetic, 
lactic, and butyric acids ; of ammonia, amines, albumoses ; 
and of certain compounds of the aromatic series, such as skatol 
and indol. (The so-called ptomaines are alkaloidal bodies of 
the amine class.) The more toxic bodies are apparently formed 
at an earlier stage than the substances possessing a disagreeable 
odour, and poisons may therefore be found in meat which is 
apparently fresh. The pyrexia which is frequently noticed 
Martin regards as being probably due to certain albumoses, 
which are also formed early in the process of decomposition. 

During recent years many outbreaks of food-poisoning 
have been very fully investigated bacteriologically, and the 
particular bacteria believed to be responsible for the pro- 
duction of the ptomaines or toxins have been isolated and fully 
described. The majority of these belong to the group of which 
the Bacillus coli communis is the most prominent member. 
Unfortunately, in the earlier outbreaks, bacteriological know- 
ledge was not sufficiently advanced to enable the bacteria 
isolated to be identified. 

One of the most important group of cases is due to 
the products of the Bacillus botulinus, first described by 

1 British Medical Journal, 1898, vol. ii. p. 1,797. 
- Clifford Allbutt, System of Medicine, vol. ii. 



FOOD-POISONING 313 

Van Errnengem, which produces ' botulism.' The food par- 
ticularly associated with the disease is pork, especially in the 
form of sausages. The bacillus is an obligatory anaerobe, 
which forms spores, and is slightly motile ; it grows best in an 
alkaline medium, and at a temperature between 20 and 30 C. 
It ferments glucose, but does not curdle milk. It is pathogenic 
to monkeys, guinea-pigs, &c. Its growth is checked by common 
salt when present to the extent of 6 per cent., and even the 
spores are said to be destroyed at a temperature of 80 C. The 
toxin which it forms, though extremely virulent, is apparently 
rendered inert at a temperature of 70 C. 1 The symptoms as 
a rule occur almost immediately after the meat is eaten, and 
consist chiefly of malaise, bodily pains, vomiting, constipation 
and prostration. Diarrhosa is rare, and, if present, does not 
generally arise till the second or third day. The most remark- 
able characteristic is, ho\vever, a more or less complete external 
or internal ophthalmoplegia, leading to loss of vision, diplopia 
or strabismus. Pyrexia is as a rule absent, and death may 
occur with symptoms resembling bulbar paralysis. The mor- 
tality is often high, sometimes rising to 30 or 40 per cent. 2 
Many outbreaks due to this organism have been recorded in 
Germany, but it is probable that some were true ' infections,' 
as the symptoms often did not appear within less than twelve 
hours after ingestion of the poison and often as late as twenty- 
four hours afterwards. It is noteworthy also that meat may be 
so affected by this bacillus as to be extremely poisonous, without 
any of the ordinary signs of decomposition being apparent. 

In connection with the subject of toxins reference may be 
made to the views of Dr. Vaughan Harley and others, that 
scurvy is due to the consumption of food which has undergone 
some fermentative change. The evidence of this relationship 
is, however, by no means established, and certain outbreaks 
which have been recorded can hardly be explained on these 
grounds. 3 

1 Ostertag, Handbook of Meat Inspection. J Ibid. 

3 British Medical Journal, 1902, i. p. 10 ; ibid., 1905, i. p. 020 ; Lancet, 1904, 
i. p. 1,714. 



314 PRESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The bacilli which are probably most frequently associated 
with epidemics of meat-poisoning are members of the B. coli, 
the B. enteritidis (Gartner), and the ' paratyphoid ' groups. 
It is only within recent years that the characteristics separating 
the last two organisms from the true Bacillus coli communis 
on the one hand, and the Bacillus typhosus on the other, have 
been worked out, and consequently the precise class under 
which the organisms, which have been isolated in some of the 
earlier epidemics (e.g. Welbeck), fall must remain undecided. 
The first exact bacteriological investigation of meat-poisoning 
was probably that made by Gartner in connection with an 
epidemic at Frankenhausen in 1889. Fifty-nine persons 
became ill after eating the meat from a cow subjected to 
' emergency ' slaughter. The symptoms were severe gastro- 
enteritis, fever and prostration. The bacillus known by 
Gartner's name was isolated both from the meat and from one 
of the fatal cases. 1 It produces a toxin which is not destroyed 
at the temperature of boiling water. 

An account of some of the bacilli which have been found 
associated with meat-poisoning, together with their cultural 
and other characteristics, and their relationship with the 
organisms of psittacosis, hog cholera, dysentery, &c., has 
recently been given in a paper by H. de E. Morgan, 2 and he 
has shown that bacilli of both the Gartner and paratyphoid 
group can be isolated from the excreta, and also from the 
scrapings of the intestinal mucous membrane, of normal 
animals. Bacilli of the former group were apparently scanty 
but virulent, and could only be isolated by the passage through 
a guinea-pig of a culture made from an emulsion of the 
substance under examination, whilst organisms of the para- 
typhoid group were comparatively abundant, and could be 
obtained directly from cultures. 

In addition to the Frankenhausen epidemic already referred 
to, the B. enteritidis has been proved by Delepine 3 to be 

1 Ostertag, op. cit. - British Medical Journal, 1905, vol. i. p. 1,257. 

3 Eeport on outbreak of food-poisoning in Derby, 1902 (Howarth and Delepine). 



FOOD-POISONING 315 

responsible for the Derby outbreak of 1902, where pork pies 
were the source of infection, by Durham l for the Chadderton 
outbreak of 1898 (veal pies), and by various Continental 
observers 2 elsewhere. 

The Chadderton epidemic may be taken as an example of 
this form of meat-infection. It occurred in July 1898, and 
was in the first instance reported on by Drs. Bo wen and 
Ashton, 3 and subsequently by Dr. Durham. 

The number of cases heard of in Chadderton was thirty-five, 
three of which were fatal, whilst twelve further cases with one 
death, occurring in the neighbouring town of Oldham, were ap- 
parently infected from the same source. The incubation period 
varied from three to twenty-nine hours, six to eight hours being 
the usual period. The symptoms included vomiting, diarrhoaa, 
griping, thirst?, pyrexia, and exhaustion. Colitis was the most 
noticeable feature at the autopsies. The food implicated con- 
sisted of a batch of veal pies, the confectioner making in all 
268 pies, of which 160 were veal, and the remainder pork ; the 
other batches were apparently harmless. The pies were said to be 
cooked for twenty minutes at a temperature of 400 to 500 F., 
but it is suggested by Durham that the batch concerned was 
insufficiently cooked, and that the interior especially had failed 
to reach the bacillary thermal death-point. This is rendered 
the more probable in that a portion of the meat in the interior 
of one of the pies examined appeared to have escaped the 
temperature at which the albumen should become coagulated. 
In every instance a period of about forty-eight hours elapsed 
between the time of cooking and the eating of the pie. Durham 
did not begin his investigations until too late a period to 
thoroughly establish the connection between the epidemic and 
the Bacillus enteritidis, but valuable evidence in this direction 
was obtained from the fact that the blood serum of every one of 
nineteen of the sufferers examined gave the specific reaction 

1 British Medical Journal, 1898, vol. ii. p. 1,787. 

2 ' Zur Etiologie der sogenannten Fleischvergiftungen,' Professor Bernhard 
Fischer, Zeitschrift filr Hygiene, vol. xxxix. 1902 ; Ostertag, op. cit. 

3 British Medical Journal, 1898, vol. ii. p. 1,456. 



316 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

with cultures of Gartner's bacillus, and a further indication that 
bacilli, and not toxins, were responsible, is that two persons were 
ill after eating sandwiches prepared in the same shop. As 
Durham points out, it is almost inconceivable that sufficient 
toxin could be transferred from the pies to the sandwiches, 
while contamination by bacilli readily explains the circum- 
stance. 

Durham also quotes experiments in which an ox was 
inoculated with B. enteritidis, killed and partially bled twenty 
minutes later. A few colonies of the bacillus were recovered 
from the spleen and liver, but none could be detected in the 
flesh nor in the blood. The meat was then kept at 20 C. for 
seventy-two hours, after which the bacilli were found in abun- 
dance, though they were only scanty when the meat was main- 
tained at 5 C. Of fifty-three persons who, although warned, 
ate the meat, fifteen became seriously ill. 

A bacillus resembling Bacillus coli was apparently 
responsible for an outbreak of illness in Sheffield in 1899. 
The meat implicated was a 6-lb. tin of corned beef : 4 Ibs. 
of this were sold, chiefly in quarter-pound pieces, and some 
twenty-four of the consumers were ill, with vomiting, headache, 
colic, diarrhoaa, and collapse. Half the patients were children 
under twelve, and one case proved fatal. The incubation 
period varied from one to three and a half hours. 1 

Bacilli apparently belonging to the B. coli group were 
found in connection with meat epidemics at Welbeck (1880), 
Nottingham (1881), and Middlesbrough (1881), pig meat being 
the food implicated in each instance. A virulent species of 
B. coli was isolated by Klein in an outbreak of poisoning at 
Mansfield in 1896. Potted meat was the vehicle of infection, 
and 265 persons were affected. The meat was freshly prepared, 
not tinned meat, and was eaten within a few days of cooking. 
The incubation period varied from five to thirty-six hours, and 
the symptoms resembled those in the epidemics already 
described. A variety of bacilli, cocci, and yeasts were isolated 

1 W. N. Barker, British Medical Journal, 1899, vol. ii. p. 1,367. 



FOOD-POISONING 317 

from the meat, and of these two forms Proteus vulgaris and 
B. coli were pathogenic to mice. 1 

In the Moorseele epidemic (1892) Van Ermengem isolated 
a bacillus from the bone marrow of two calves, whose flesh 
was responsible for the outbreak, belonging to the B. enteri- 
tidis group, but differing slightly from Gartner's bacillus in its 
staining reactions. It was pathogenic to calves, apes, dogs, 
guinea-pigs, rabbits and pigeons, and formed a toxalbumen, not 
destroyed by heating to 120 C. 

In connection with an epidemic at Breslau, Flugge obtained 
a pathogenic bacillus of theB. coli type from the blood of mice 
that had been fed on the infected meat. The bacillus differed 
from true B. coli in not producing indol, and in not coagulating 
milk. It was probably of a similar nature to the Moorseele 
bacillus, and formed a toxin similarly resistant to heat. 

An allied organism was isolated by Hoist from the spleen 
and intestinal ulcers of patients who had died during an 
epidemic of meat-poisoning at Ganstadt. 

In a similar epidemic at Denis, Kuborn obtained Staphylo- 
coccus pyogenes aureus, which he considered to be the cause 
of the illness. 2 

In all the epidemics we have mentioned, with the exception 
of that at Middlesbrough, the chief symptoms were gastric or 
intestinal or both. At Middlesbrough, however, the prevailing 
lesion was pneumonia. The epidemic was apparently as- 
sociated with American bacon, from specimens of which Klein 
isolated a bacillus capable of causing pneumonia in rodents. 
Moreover an epidemic of pneumonia occurred among monkeys, 
mice, and guinea-pigs, kept in the building where the experi- 
mental work was carried out. The same bacillus was recovered 
from the organs of the animals. 

It is a noticeable feature in the epidemics occurring in 
England that the history of the animal responsible for the 
outbreak has seldom or never been obtained. This lack of 
information, fostered by the system of private slaughter-houses, 

1 Local Government Board Report, 1897, p. 115. - Ostertag, op. cit. 



318 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

is a considerable handicap to medical officers of health, since 
a knowledge of the kind of disease likely to produce these 
serious epidemics in man is absolutely necessary for the safety 
of the public. Some light is, perhaps, thrown on the subject 
by the experiments of Morgan, which we have quoted, and 
those referred to by Durham, and still more by the history of 
many of the Continental outbreaks. 

In 1880 Bollinger read an important paper before a medical 
society in Munich, in which he reviewed all the principal 
cases of meat-poisoning that had been recorded in Germany 
and adjoining countries up to that year, and in which he 
included the researches of Siedamgrotsky comprised in a 
series of lectures to veterinary surgeons. A considerable 
number of these instances are detailed by Ostertag, 1 who 
extends the list up to the year 1898, and it is from his book 
that the accounts of the following outbreaks are derived. 

The majority were due to the ingestion of meat from 
animals which had suffered from septic conditions. In 1867 
an epidemic characterized by vomiting, diarrhoea, stupor, 
headache, delirium, and prostration, affected twenty-seven 
persons in Fluntern, Switzerland, after eating veal from a calf 
five days old which had ' yellow water ' in the joints probably 
a form of congenital pyaemia. Similar symptoms occurred 
in an outbreak in Bregenz in 1874, the meat being derived 
from a cow that had been subjected to emergency slaughter 
five days after parturition, on account of injuries to the sexual 
organs and retention of the placenta. Fifty-one persons were 
affected, the liver being apparently more toxic than the muscles, 
but both the meat and broth made from the meat were re- 
sponsible for many of the cases. In Wurzen (1877) no less than 
206 persons were poisoned by the meat of a cow which was 
slaughtered in a moribund condition on account of mammitis 
and paralysis of the posterior extremities. The meat was 
eaten partly raw, partly cooked, partly as sausages, and partly 
as pickled meat, within four days after slaughter. The 

1 Op.dt. 



FOOD-POISONING 319 

symptoms resembled those of cholera. A still larger epidemic 
occurred in Klaten (1878), 657 persons being affected, with six 
deaths. The outbreak was ascribed to the meat of a calf one 
week old, which had either died or had been slaughtered during 
the death agony. Two interesting points in this epidemic 
were that the veal appeared to have transmitted the infection 
to hams which had been stored alongside, and that secondary 
cases occurred, the infection being derived from the primary 
cases. This suggests that the illness was an infection and not 
an intoxication. 

In 1887 an extensive outbreak of poisoning occurred in 
Middleburg, Holland, affecting 286 persons. The meat was 
derived from a cow which was slaughtered in a moribund 
condition, the placenta having been retained for nine days and 
having set up septic metritis. Cooking did not destroy the 
poisonous substance, and the effects appeared after periods 
varying from twelve hours to one or two days after ingestion. 
An outbreak occurred in Cotta, Saxony (1889), affecting 136 
persons, with four deaths. The meat is said to have been 
normal in appearance and odour, and was derived from a cow 
subjected to emergency slaughter on account of mammitis. 

An epidemic characterized by gastro-enteritis, and affecting 
forty persons, occurred in Bulstringen (1898), and was due to 
veal from a calf that had been the subject of inflammation of 
the joints and diarrhoea. 

Next comes a group of cases in which poisoning resulted 
from the flesh of animals slaughtered on account of ill-defined 
diseases characterized by diarrhoea. Amongst these may be 
mentioned an outbreak at St. Georgen, near Friedrichshafen, 
affecting eighteen persons, the incubation period being two to- 
three hours ; an outbreak at Lauterbach in 1884, causing three 
deaths ; an epidemic in Schonenberg, Switzerland, in 1886, 
affecting about fifty persons, with one death ; a similar 
epidemic in Frankenhausen in 1889, with fifty-nine cases and 
one death. In this instance the cooked meat was injurious. 
When the cow was slaughtered the only abnormal condition 



320 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

found was a slight reddening of the intestines. An outbreak at 
Piesenkam occurred in 1891, due to the flesh of a cow which 
had suffered from gastritis, enteritis, and cystitis. In the 
interesting epidemic which occurred in Moorseele, Belgium, 
in 1892, in which about eighty persons were affected after 
eating veal, the chief symptoms were vomiting, diarrhoea, and 
lassitude. The meat came from two calves, one of which had 
died, and the other had been slaughtered while in a diseased 
condition. Both calves had suffered from acute diarrhoea, and 
the intestines were of a dark-red colour, and the livers were 
swollen ; the muscles appeared to be normal. The meat was 
eaten within twenty-four hours of slaughter, and it is said in 
every case in a well-cooked condition. The incubation period 
varied from three to twenty-four hours, though in one case at 
least forty-eight hours elapsed. In the Canton of Thurgau 
(1896) an epidemic of gastro-enteric catarrh affecting a number 
of persons was traced to cooked, pickled, and smoked pork, 
derived from animals slaughtered on account of a reddening of 
the skin and diarrhoea. In the same year forty-one persons 
suffered from symptoms resembling Cholera nostras in Sielkeim, 
East Prussia, the cause being traced to the flesh of two three- 
month-old calves slaughtered on account of diarrhoea associated 
with great depression. In the following year (1897) an epidemic 
characterized by similar symptoms affected forty-one persons in 
Kalk, near Cologne. The implicated meat was from a cow 
slaughtered on account of diarrhoea and general malaise. 
Illness was caused by the meat in both a raw and cooked 
condition. 

As regards the more specific diseases, Ostertag mentions 
several instances in which ill results followed the consumption 
of the meat of animals suffering from foot-and-mouth disease 
or its sequelae, but the symptoms of the victims resembled those 
described in the other epidemics. 

Localized outbreaks of so-called ptomaine -poisoning are 
recorded almost weekly, especially during the summer months, 
and deaths so frequently occur that no excuse is needed for the 



FOOD-POISONING 321 

somewhat lengthy reference which has been made to this 
subject. 

The histories of these outbreaks form a sufficient ground 
for regarding with grave suspicion the flesh of animals which 
have been slaughtered on account of the presence of some 
serious disease. Bacteriology has shown us that few of the 
bacterial diseases in man, formerly regarded as local, are in 
fact really so, and we may perhaps picture the steps leading up 
to an epidemic of food-poisoning as follows. A cow or pig is 
attacked with diarrhrea, possibly due to the Bacillus enteritidis, 
or an allied species, and some of the bacilli enter the general 
blood stream. The animal is slaughtered, and the flesh 
possesses the normal appearance. Probably at this stage no 
bacilli can be detected in the muscles, but a rapid multiplica- 
tion takes place after death, when the circulation has ceased. 
The meat is cooked or made into pies, or pickled ; the process 
is insufficient to destroy the bacilli in the interior, and an 
epidemic results ; or it may be that whilst the bacilli have been 
killed the toxins produced have escaped destruction, and these 
may be present in sufficient quantities to produce poisonous 
effects. 



21 



CHAPTEK XXVI 
FOOD-POISONING (continued). EXAMINATION OF THE FOOD 

WHEN a sample of food alleged to be toxic is submitted for 
chemical examination, most careful inquiries should be made 
with reference to its source, the quantity consumed by the 
individuals affected, the intervals between the partaking of the 
food and the onset of the symptoms of poisoning, and the 
character of these symptoms. If considerable quantities of 
food were required to produce the ill effects, and it had been in 
contact with any metallic vessel, the possibility of the poison 
being derived therefrom might receive consideration, especially 
if the symptoms corresponded with those due to arsenic, 
lead, copper, tin, or zinc. It is, however, as we have stated 
elsewhere, absurd to attribute the poisonous effect to these 
metals because a trace can be detected in the food ; and if only 
small quantities of the particular food submitted were required 
to cause illness, the probability of this being due to metallic 
contamination may be at once dismissed. The methods of 
detecting and estimating the various inorganic poisons which 
may occur in foods from the process of manufacturing, pre- 
serving, or from colouring, will be described in a later section ; 
it remains only, therefore, to deal with the method of examina- 
tion to be followed when the poison is suspected to be of 
bacterial origin. 

The following facts must be borne in mind in making such 
an investigation, and in forming an opinion from the results 
obtained : (1) That the poison may not be uniformly dis- 
tributed throughout the whole mass ; (2) that changes may 
have occurred in the food since the poisonous portion was 



FOOD-POISONING. EXAMINATION OF THE FOOD 323 

eaten, whereby the toxic principle has been destroyed ; (3) 
that any process requiring the use of acids or the aid of heat 
is likely to produce traces of substances giving many of the 
reactions of ' ptomaines ' ; (4) that results obtained by experi- 
ments on animals are not conclusive proof that the same 
results would be obtained with man ; (5) that it is a waste of 
time conducting any chemical investigation unless a consider- 
able amount of material is at disposal ; (6) that many chemicals 
used, especially alcohol, ether, and chloroform, may contain 
traces of basic substances giving alkaloid reactions. These 
solvents should therefore never be used as purchased without 
previously undergoing careful examination. 

Before commencing the chemical examination, feeding 
experiments should be made to ascertain whether the substance 
contains a poison or not, and to obtain an idea of its action 
and virulency. Mice may be used for this purpose, or kittens, 
or both. Babbits and guinea-pigs are not suitable, since these 
animals cannot vomit. The fact of the food being poisonous 
having been demonstrated, an attempt may be made to isolate 
the toxic substance, ptomaine or toxin. 

Processes have been devised for isolating ptomaines by 
Stas-Otto, Dragendorff, Brieger, Gautier, Etard, and others, 
but the Stas-Otto method, with proper skill, is undoubtedly 
the most reliable. 

The substance to be examined is treated with twice its 
volume of 90 per cent, alcohol. If solid, or semi-solid, it must 
first be minced or triturated into a paste. Enough tartaric 
acid is then added, if necessary, to give the liquid a slight, but 
distinctly acid reaction, and the whole digested with frequent 
agitation at a temperature not exceeding 70 C. for several 
hours. The liquid portion is filtered and evaporated in a 
partial vacuum at a temperature not exceeding 35 C. The 
residue is exhausted with absolute alcohol, the solution filtered 
and again evaporated with the same precautions as before. 
The residue is now dissolved in a little water, filtered if 
necessary, rendered slightly alkaline with sodium carbonate, 



324: PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

exhausted with pure ether, and the ether allowed to evaporate 
spontaneously. The residue can now be tested for ptomaines, 
or, if thought desirable, further purification may be attempted 
by redissolving the residue in water, again extracting with 
ether, &c. 

To small portions of the aqueous solution the following 
reagents may be applied, and the reaction obtained recorded. 
Unless the first two reagents give a distinct precipitate, 
ptomaines are either absent or present in infinitesimal 
quantities : potassium bismuthic iodide, potassium mercuric 
iodide, phospho-tungstic acid, phospho-molybdic acid, picric 
acid, tannin, iodine, platinic chloride, and gold chloride. If it is 
desired to ascertain whether the ptomaines correspond with 
any previously described, reference may be made to the tables 
in Vaughan and Novy's work on ' Cellular Toxins ' or to 
Brieger's on 'Ptomaines.' 

To examine for toxins, a filtered aqueous extract of the food- 
product is evaporated to a small bulk in a vacuum apparatus 
at a very low temperature, and the liquid supersaturated with 
crystals of ammonium sulphate. After standing in a shallow 
dish for twelve hours at a temperature of 37 C., a film or scum 
will be found upon the surface of the fluid. This, which 
contains the toxin, can be removed by means of a platinum 
spatula, placed on a watch-glass and dried in the dark over 
sulphuric acid, preferably in vacuo. The residue dissolved in 
water, or, better still, in normal saline solution, can be used 
for experiments on animals or for the application of chemical 
reagents. 

The toxins are amorphous, nitrogenous substances, ap- 
parently incapable of forming crystalline compounds, yet they 
are dialyzable. They are insoluble in ether and alcohol, and 
from an aqueous solution they are precipitated by alcohol and 
by saturation with certain neutral salts. They readily undergo 
decomposition in the presence of acids and alkalies. Many 
are destroyed at a temperature far below 100 C., and even 
exposure to light may exert a destructive influence. If, there- 



FOOD-POISONING. EXAMINATION OF THE FOOD 325 

fore, by the process above mentioned, a poisonous principle is 
isolated, containing nitrogen and possessing the above-men- 
tioned properties, it must be assumed to be or to contain a 
' toxin.' 

Tyrotoxicon, the poisonous principle first obtained by 
Vaughan from cheese, and since obtained from milk, ice-cream, 
&c., is not a true toxin but a diazo-benzene compound of very 
unstable character. Vaughan states that it may disappear in 
twenty-four hours from a sample of milk rich in the poison if 
it is allowed to stand in an open beaker. It is decomposed in 
water at a temperature of 90 C., and at ordinary temperatures 
sulphuretted hydrogen reduces it, and acids decompose it into 
phenol and nitrogen. It may be formed artificially by the 
action of nitrous acid on aniline salts. Its most stable and 
characteristic compound is formed by the action of potassium 
hydrate on the nitrate 

C 6 H 5 N 2 . N0 2 + 2KOH = C 6 H 5 N 2 OK + KN0 3 + H a O. 

This compound crystallizes readily in colourless, pearly, six- 
sided plates or prisms. These are insoluble in ether, but soluble 
in water, and the aqueous solution gives a white precipitate 
with silver nitrate. Acetic acid decomposes it into phenol and 
nitrogen, the phenol being recognized by the bromine and 
other tests. With a mixture of sulphuric acid and phenol in 
equal parts it gives a green colour. It does not decompose at 
a temperature below 130 C. 

Vaughan's process for the detection of tyrotoxicon in milk is 
as follows : The acidified milk is filtered and neutralized with 
sodium carbonate, agitated with an equal volume of ether, 
allowed to stand in a stoppered cylinder for twenty-four hours, 
the ether removed, and permitted to evaporate spontaneously in 
an open dish. The aqueous residue is acidified with nitric acid, 
then heated with an equal volume of a saturated solution of potas- 
sium hydrate, and the whole concentrated on the water-bath. 
On being heated the mixture becomes yellowish brown and 
emits a peculiar a-romatic odour. On cooling the tyrotoxicon 



326 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

compound forms beautiful six-sided plates, and these are found 
along with prisms of potassium nitrate. 

In applying the sulphuric acid and phenol test the green 
colour will not be obtained unless the pure crystals are used ; 
with the impure crystals obtained as above an orange-red 
colour is produced. The ether residue may be used for this 
test. Vaughan states that the physiological test should always 
be applied, as certain of the tyrotoxicon reactions may be ob- 
tained from cheese and milk which are not poisonous. 

The detection of the bacteria to which the poisoning may 
be attributed is in all cases a very difficult matter, and one 
which cannot be undertaken with any prospect of success by 
any but expert bacteriologists, with a well-equipped laboratory, 
and who have a licence to experiment upon animals. Each 
investigation is in fact an original research, and may at any 
stage require some original method of treatment. The recent 
observations of Durham l and Morgan 2 seem, however, to 
indicate that the specific organisms are in most cases members 
of the group which includes the B. typhosus, B. enteritidis of 
Gartner, B. coli, and the paratyphoid bacilli, all of which are 
usually associated with excremental matter, and Durham 
thinks that the B. enteritidis surpasses all others in importance, 
since it has been found more frequently than any other bacillus 
in the cases of food-poisoning recently investigated. 

In conducting such an investigation the earlier it is com- 
menced the more likely it is to be successful, since the patho- 
genic bacteria may possibly not survive for any lengthened 
period when once the organisms of putrefaction begin to 
multiply. For the examination it is not only desirable to 
have specimens of the implicated food, but in case of the death 
of a patient small portions of the kidney, liver, spleen and 
heart blood should be secured if possible. Durham suggests 
that, where the usual swabs and serum tubes used for diphtheria 

1 ' Outbreaks due to Meat Poisoning,' British Medical Journal, December 17, 
1898. 

* ' The Micro-organisms of Meat Poisoning,' British Medical Journal, June 10, 
1905. 



FOOD-POISONING. EXAMINATION OF THE FOOD 327 

cultivations are at hand, ' cultures should be made from the 
liver, spleen, kidney, and heart blood (after searing the 
surface of the organs with a red-hot poker) within ten or 
twelve hours of death, earlier if possible,' and that ' small 
portions of the organs not more than one-quarter inch thick 
should be put into rectified spirit for microscopic examina- 
tion.' He recommends also that the spleen, kidney, and a piece 
of liver should be cut out with proper precautions, placed at 
once in separate cloths wetted with O2 per cent, mercuric 
chloride solution, each separately folded in gutta-percha tissue, 
and each placed in a tin (tobacco tins). The tins are then to 
be packed in ice and salt and at once despatched to the 
laboratory. Samples of the food wrapped in tissue and packed 
in tins should be sent at the same time in the case containing 
the freezing mixture. 

It would be advisable to make cultures from the blood, from 
the organs above mentioned, and from the food on a number 
of plates containing Drigalski's nutrose-litmus-lactose-neutral- 
red medium at the earliest possible moment. This medium 
would enable the operator without loss of time to single out 
the colonies bearing a resemblance to those produced by the 
Gartner, typhoid, or colon bacillus for further examination. 



PART Y 

CHAPTEK XXVII 

DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF PEESERVATIVES 
BOBIC ACID 

Qualitative Tests. It is always desirable to perform a pre- 
liminary experiment to ascertain whether boron compounds 
are present or not, before making a quantitative examination, 
and there are two tests which are generally applicable, and 
which, if properly performed, are reliable : namely, the pro- 
duction of a green-coloured flame in burning alcohol, and the 
characteristic reaction of boric acid with turmeric paper. The 
latter is far more delicate than the former. 

The Flame Test. The ash of the material, prepared as 
described in the first quantitative test, is rendered strongly 
acid with a little sulphuric acid and hydrochloric acid (the two 
acids together render the test more delicate than either alone), 
and placed in a test tube with a little alcohol. The mouth 
of the tube is plugged with a rubber stopper through which 
passes a short piece of narrow tubing. The liquid is then 
boiled and the escaping alcohol vapour ignited. The pro- 
duction of a green flame indicates the presence of boric acid. 
Greater delicacy is attained if the experiment is conducted in 
a nearly dark room. 

Turmeric Test. The ash or extractive (free from fat) is 
acidulated with a little dilute hydrochloric acid, and a strip of 
turmeric paper is immersed therein and warmed for a few 
minutes. The paper is then removed, pressed between sheets 
of blotting-paper, and dried at a low temperature. If boric 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 329 

acid is present the paper will assume a characteristic red 
colour, changing to blue-green after moistening with an alkali. 
The presence of O01 per cent, of boric acid in the liquid may 
be detected by this method. 

Quantitative Tests. If the amount of boric acid present 
is likely to be small, one of the following colorimetric tests 
should be employed for its estimation ; but if fairly abundant, 
a volumetric process will give more reliable results. 

(a) Colorimetric Methods of Determination : Hebebrand's 
Process. 1 Especially applicable for fruits, fruit juices, &c., 
containing minute quantities of boric acid or borates. 

Twenty-five to 30 grammes of the liquid is mixed with 
5 c.c. of a 10 per cent, solution of calcium acetate (or calcium 
chloride), evaporated to dry ness, and the residue ignited until free 
from carbon. The ash is dissolved in the smallest possible quan- 
tity of hydrochloric acid, diluted with a little water, and made 
faintly alkaline to litmus by the addition of a dilute solution of 
caustic soda. The mixture is boiled, and the precipitate filtered 
out and w r ashed. The filtrate is evaporated to dryness, the 
residue treated first with 5 c.c. of dilute hydrochloric acid, and 
afterwards with 15 c.c. of absolute alcohol, and to this 15 c.c. of 
dilute hydrochloric acid is added, and the mixture cooled. This 
contains practically all the boric acid in the liquid taken, free 
from iron, phosphates and other possibly interfering substances, 
and upon the addition of 0-2 c.c. of a turmeric solution 
(1 gramme to 1 litre of 50 per cent, alcohol) a colour is developed, 
the depth of which corresponds approximately to the amount of 
boric acid present. The tint produced is compared with similar 
acid solutions containing known quantities of boric acid. 

Cassal and Gerran's Method. 2 When a solution contain- 
ing boric acid is evaporated to dryness with a little turmeric 
solution and oxalic acid a magenta colour is produced, and upon 
this reaction the method to be described is based, the depth of 
the colour varying approximately with the amount of boric 
acid present. Fifteen to 20 grammes of the milk, fruit juice, 

1 TJie Analyst, vol. xxviii. p. 37. 2 Ibid., vol. xxviii. p. 36. 



330 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

or other liquid to be examined is rendered alkaline with 
barium hydrate, evaporated to dryness in a platinum basin on 
a paraffin bath at 105 C., the residue charred, acidified with 
hydrochloric acid, extracted with hot water (70 to 80 c.c.), and 
the solution filtered. The filter paper and contents are rendered 
alkaline with barium hydrate, ignited and extracted with 
acidified water, and the filtrate added to that obtained from the 
carbonaceous residue and made up to 100 c.c. An aliquot 
portion of this, one-tenth, is added to 10 to 15 grammes of 
clean white sand in a porcelain basin, the mixture made 
alkaline with baryta water, and evaporated to dryness on the 
paraffin bath. The sand is then rendered acid with a few 
drops of very dilute hydrochloric acid, 2 c.c. of a saturated 
solution of oxalic acid and 2 c.c. of a solution of turmeric (O'l per 
cent.) are added, and the mixture again evaporated to dryness. 

To collect the small amount of boric acid which may be 
lost during the evaporation, the basin is covered with a funnel 
connected with a series of potash bulbs containing a few cubic 
centimetres of baryta water, and air is aspirated until the sand 
is dry. The colouring matter in the sand is finally extracted 
with alcohol and the solution filtered. The liquid in the 
potash bulbs is then neutralized, and the colouring matter 
extracted with alcohol, and mixed with that previously ob- 
tained. The liquid is diluted in a tube to a definite volume, 
say 25 c.c., and compared with that obtained from standards 
containing known quantities of boric acid. This method is 
probably more delicate than that of Hebebrand, but it is very 
tedious, and not likely therefore to take the place of the latter 
or the more simple volumetric process next to be described. 

(6) Volumetric Methods of estimating Boric Acid. The only 
volumetric methods which are generally applicable are based 
upon that devised by E. J. Thomson, in which the solution 
containing boracic acid is made neutral to methyl-orange, a 
quantity of glycerine added, and the liquid titrated with 
standard soda solution, phenol-phthalein being used as the 
indicator. On the addition of the glycerine the liquid becomes 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 331 

acid, the amount of acid liberated corresponding to that of the 
boric acid present ; hence, using a decinormal solution of soda, 
1 c.c. will represent 3'5 mlgm. of B 2 3 , 6-2 mlgm. of H 3 B0 3 , 
or 9-55 mlgm. of crystallized borax, Na 2 B 4 O 7 + 10H 2 0. The 
presence of phosphates vitiates the results, since the di-hydric 
phosphates are neutral to methyl-orange but acid to phenol- 
phthalein. The glycerine used should give a pink colour with 
phenol-phthalein upon the addition of a single drop of the 
decinormal soda solution ; if more than this is required the 
necessary correction must be made. 

Estimation of Boric Acid in Butter. Thomson's method 
as modified by Richmond and Harrison can be applied to butter. 
The percentage of water in the butter having been determined, 
weigh about 25 grammes of the butter into a 100 c.c. stoppered 
cylinder, and add sufficient distilled water to make with the 
water already present a number of cubic centimetres equal to 
the weight of butter in grammes. Then pour in 10 to 15 c.c. 
of chloroform, warm to melt and dissolve the butter, agitate 
and set aside to separate. Remove with a pipette an aliquot 
part of the aqueous liquid, render alkaline, evaporate to dryness 
and ignite. Treat the ash with hot water until all soluble 
matter is removed, make neutral to methyl-orange, boil to 
expel C0 2 , add about 10 c.c. of glycerol and titrate, using 
phenol-phthalein as the indicator. Each c.c. of the aqueous 
solution corresponds to 1 gramme of the original butter, hence 
the percentage of the boric acid is easily calculated. 

A simpler method has been devised by Richmond and 
Harrison which dispenses with the evaporation and ignition 
of the residue, &c., the time required for an estimation being 
thereby considerably shortened. It is carried out as follows : 

Weigh out 25 grammes of the butter in a beaker, add 25 c.c. 
of a solution containing 6 grammes of milk-sugar and 4 c.c. 
N. sulphuric acid in 100 c.c. Place in the water-oven until 
the fat is just melted, and stir well ; allow the aqueous portion 
to settle for a few minutes, and draw off 20 c.c. ; add a few drops 
of phenol-phthalein solution, bring to the boil, and titrate with 



332 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

seminormal soda solution till a faint pink colour just appears ; 
add 12 c.c.of glycerol, and titrate till the pink colour is restored. 
The difference between the two titrations, less the amount of 
alkali required by the 12 c.c. of glycerol, multiplied by 0-0368, 
will give the amount of boracic acid in 20 c.c., and this, 
multiplied by 

100 + p.c. of water in the butter 
~20~ 

will give the percentage in the butter examined. If the per- 
centage of water is about the average, it may be taken as 13 
without appreciable error. 

It will be observed that in this process methyl-orange is not 
used, and that the factor employed, G'0368, is higher than is 
required by theory, 0*031, for seminormal alkali. The authors 
found that using phenol-phthalein only, the presence of a small 
quantity of phosphates could be ignored, that titrating in a 
boiling solution in the presence of milk-sugar, the end reaction 
is more sharply defined, and that the difference between the 
two titrations constantly indicates 84-4 per cent, of the total 
boric acid, hence the factor 

n AQAQ ' 031 x 100 
~84"4~ 

The above process is rapidly conducted, and sufficiently accurate 
for all practical purposes. 

Estimation of Boric Acid in Milk. Take 100 c.c. of the milk 
in a long-necked flask, heat rapidly to the boiling point, remove 
the flame, and add 8 c.c. of 2 per cent, nitric acid. Lightly 
stopper the flask and set aside until cool. When cold, filter 
off 50 c.c. (the 8 c.c. of acid added corresponds approximately 
to the volume of the curd produced, therefore 50 c.c. of the 
liquid removed will correspond to 50 c.c. of the original milk). 
Add a few drops of a 10 per cent, solution of calcium chloride, 
and render faintly alkaline by the addition of sodium carbonate. 
Evaporate to dryness in a platinum dish and incinerate at a 
moderate temperature. Exhaust the ash with successive small 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 333 

quantities of boiling water and evaporate, if necessary, to 25 c.c. 
When cold, render neutral to methyl-orange, add 25 c.c. of 

glycerine, and titrate with -^ solution of soda until alkaline 
5 J 10 

to phenol-phthalein. 

This process is based upon one recommended by Konerigh, 1 
and gives very satisfactory results. The addition of the nitric 
acid removes the casein and fat, and the nitrate in the residue 
facilitates greatly the process of incineration. 

Estimation of Boric Acid in Cream. Weigh out 20 
grammes of the cream, dilute with 80 c.c. of water in a long- 
necked flask, and proceed exactly as described when examining 
milk. The 8 c.c. of acid introduced corresponds with sufficient 
accuracy to the volume of the fat and curd, so that the boric 
acid found in 50 c.c. of the filtrate represents the amount in 
10 grammes of the cream. 

Estimation of Boric Acid in Cider, Fruits, &c. It must 
be remembered that traces of boric acid are found in apples, 
pears, quinces, grapes, pomegranates, peaches, gooseberries, 
cherries, oranges, lemons (also in hops, radishes, and lettuce), 
and therefore may be detected in both foreign and British 
wines, in cider, perry, &c. The largest amount found in any 
of these substances appears to be 16 mlgm. of boric acid 
in 100 grammes (0-016 per cent.), and unless the quantity 
present considerably exceeds this it would be unwise to assert 
that it had been added as a preservative. 

The following process for the determination of the boric 
acid in fruit and fruit juices was described by Allen and 
Tankard. 2 At the same time a process based on the volatility 
of methyl-borate was given, but as it is more tedious and not 
more accurate than the one recommended, it is not likely to be 
used for practical purposes. 

One hundred c.c. of the cider, fruit juice, or other liquid is 
evaporated to dryness with a few c.c. of a 10 per cent, solution 
of calcium chloride. The dry residue is well charred, boiled 

1 The Analyst, vol. xxiv. p. 144. - Year Book of Pharmacy, 1904. 



334 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

with 150 c.c. of distilled water, and the liquid filtered. The 
carbonaceous mass is thoroughly incinerated at a moderate 
temperature, and when cold boiled with a further quantity of 
150 c.c. of water, and allowed to stand in the cold for some 
hours, or preferably overnight. The liquid is then filtered 
cold, and the filtrate added to the fruit extract. Although this 
filtrate usually exhausts the residue, the authors recommend 
that it should be treated a third time with water, and that this 
third extract should be titrated separately. The mixed 
aqueous extracts are next evaporated to about 30 c.c., and after 
cooling neutralized by decinormal acid, using methyl-orange as 
the indicator. As the borate exists in this solution as a 
calcium salt, which is only of moderate solubility, care must 
be taken to see that all the borate is in the solution before the 
titration is commenced. An equal volume of glycerine is next 

added, and the liquid titrated with phenol-phthalein and J^ 

anj 

caustic soda solution (free from carbonate). About 10 c.c. 
more glycerine should now be added, when, if the titration is 
complete, the red colouration will remain. The glycerine 
used should be previously tested to prove that it is neutral to 
the indicator. The process gives good results when the 
amount of boric acid present in the sample taken is not less 
than 0-005 gramme. 

This process can be adopted for the examination of jams 
and many kinds of preserved foods, using an aqueous extract of 
the material of known strength. Meat, sausage, &c., after 
being finely minced can be exhausted by macerating with luke- 
warm water, rendered faintly alkaline, and the filtrate con- 
centrated and treated as above described. 

SULPHUBOUS ACID AND SULPHITES 

Qualitative Tests. One or more of the following tests 
should be applied according to the character of the solution 
under examination. 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 335 

1. To the acidified solution add a little starch paste and a 
drop of a very dilute solution of iodine. If a blue colour 
develops sulphurous acid is either absent, or present in 
exceedingly small amount, but the non-appearance of a blue 
colour is no proof of the presence of a sulphite. 

2. To the acidified solution in a long test-tube add a few 
fragments of pure zinc. Cover the mouth of the tube with a 
piece of filter paper moistened with solution of subacetate of 
lead and warm. The nascent hydrogen reduces the sulphite, 
and sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved, producing a black stain 
on the paper cap more or less quickly according to the amount 
present. 

3. Mix the liquid with an equal volume of pure hydro- 
chloric acid, add a small piece of clean, bright copper foil, 
and boil for a few minutes. In the presence of sulphites the 
copper becomes coated with a dead-black film of sulphide. 

4. Acidify the liquid with phosphoric acid and distil a few 
c.c. The tube of the condenser should be beneath the surface 
of a little water in the collecting vessel. To the distillate add 
a few drops of bromine water and boil. In the presence of 
sulphurous acid, sulphuric acid will be formed, and the solution 
will give a precipitate with barium chloride. 

Quantitative Tests. The methods recommended by the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture are the following : l 

1. Twenty-five grammes of the sample, finely divided if 
solid or semi-solid, is placed in a flask with about 100 c.c. of 
water, and 10 c.c. of normal solution of soda are added. Shake 
thoroughly until the whole is well mixed, and allow to stand for 
about fifteen minutes. Ten c.c. of 25 per cent, sulphuric acid 

are now added, and subsequently a little starch paste, and ' 

50 

solution of iodine run in until a blue colour is produced. Each 
c.c. of the iodine solution used corresponds to 0-64 mlgm. of S0 2 . 
This process gives fairly accurate results, except in cases when 
the amount of sulphurous acid or sulphite is very small : the 

1 Leach, Food Inspector, p. 676. 



336 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

error is then one of excess, since many forms of organic matter 
take up small amounts of iodine. 

2. Take two equal volumes of the liquid to be tested, or of an 
infusion of a solid or semi-solid substance, and to one add a few 
drops of bromine water and boil. Estimate the H 2 S0 4 in both, 
and from the excess in the solution which has been treated 
with bromine calculate the corresponding S0 2 . 

It must be remembered that the amount of sulphurous acid 
found will rarely correspond with the quantity originally present 
in the substance under examination, since it has a tendency to 
undergo continuous oxidation, with the formation of sulphuric 
acid. 

FLUORIC ACID AND FLUORIDES 

Qualitative Test. If butter is the article suspected to con- 
tain a fluorine compound, a considerable portion of it should 
be melted and the aqueous layer separated for the test ; if fruit 
or jam is being examined, an infusion may be prepared. The 
liquid is rendered alkaline by the addition of lime water, 
evaporated to dryness, and ignited. One half of the residue 
is introduced into a platinum crucible, a little strong sulphuric 
acid added, and the crucible at once covered with a watch- 
glass, the convex surface of which has been coated with white 
wax, and some distinguishing mark scratched through it with 
a pin. The crucible is placed on a hot plate at about 80 C., 
and the watch-glass kept cool by filling with water. After 
standing an hour the watch-glass is removed, the wax melted, 
and the glass examined to ascertain if the distinguishing mark 
has been etched thereon. With as little as 1 mlgm. of a 
fluoride the etching will be distinct. Fluoborates and fluo- 
silicates may be present even if the action on glass is not 
obtained. To detect these take the remainder of the in- 
cinerated residue, and exhaust with dilute acetic acid, filter off 
the insoluble portion, dry, ignite, and again treat with dilute 
acetic acid. The acid liquid will contain calcium borate if a 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIG ACID, ETC. 337 

fluoborate was present, and it should, therefore, be tested 
for boric acid. The residue will contain calcium fluoride and 
calcium silicate if a fluosilicate was present in the original 
substance under examination. Treat the residue with strong 
sulphuric acid as above directed. 

A positive reaction at this stage, following a negative 
reaction when the test w r as applied directly to the incinerated 
residue, indicates the presence of a fluoborate or fluosilicate. 
If boric acid was detected in the acetic solution the compound 
present was a fluoborate ; if this acid was not detected, probably 
a fluosilicate was present. To confirm this a special examin- 
ation must be made. The incinerated residue obtained as 
above is exhausted with dilute acetic acid, and, after ignition, 
placed in a small test-tube with a little concentrated sulphuric 
acid, and kept at a temperature of about 100 C. for an hour. 
Fluosilicic acid will be found if a fluosilicate was originally 
present, a gas which forms dense fumes in moist air. If the 
test-tube is connected with a small U-tube containing a bubble 
of water, the separated silicic acid will deposit on the side of 
the tube, impairing its transparency, and flakes of gelatinous 
silica may be observed in the water. 

Quantitative Estimation. No accurate process for esti- 
mating small quantities of these fluoric compounds is known. 
Hehner weighed the ignited ash obtained as above described 
from a given quantity of material after treatment with dilute 
acetic acid, and again after treatment with strong sulphuric 
acid and ignition, the fluoride thus being converted into 
sulphate. As 78 parts of CaF 2 correspond to 136 parts of 
CaS0 4 , the amount of fluorine can be calculated. Hehner, 
however, found that there was a slight increase of weight in 
the absence of fluorides, and this amount was deducted from 
the total increase before making the calculation. 

Probably the following method would give more reliable 
results. Fuse the ash of the substance under examination 
with four times its weight of sodium carbonate, exhaust the 
smelt with water, and remove the silica by digestion with a 

22 



338 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

solution of ammonium carbonate. Filter, and nearly neutralize 
with hydrochloric acid, add a little calcium chloride, and 
evaporate to dry ness. Ignite gently, wash with water, dry, 
ignite, and weigh.. Moisten with strong sulphuric acid, again 
ignite, weigh. The increase in weight multiplied by -688 gives 
the amount of fluorine originally present : 

CaF 2 + H,S0 4 = CaS0 4 + 2HF 

FORMALDEHYDE 

Detection in Milk. The simplest test is one first suggested 
by Hehner. To about 3 c.c. of the milk placed in a test-tube 
add an equal volume of water, then introduce carefully at the 
bottom of the tube, by means of a pipette, 1 c.c. of strong 
sulphuric acid in such a way as to allow the dilute milk to 
float on the surface of the acid. Set aside for a time. If, 
formaldehyde is present, a violet ring will form at the junction 
of the two fluids. 

An acid containing a trace of iron acts better than pure 
sulphuric acid. This can be prepared by adding a drop or two 
of a solution of ferric chloride to about 100 c.c. of the strong 
acid. 

The test will detect 1 part of formaldehyde in 100,000. 
Luebert's modification of this test is said to give a reaction 
with 1 in 250,000. About 5 grammes of coarsely ground crystals 
of potassium sulphate are placed at the bottom of a 100 c.c. 
flask, and 5 c.c. of milk mixed therewith. About 10 c.c. of 
strong sulphuric acid are then delivered slowly from a pipette 
down the side of the flask. After standing a few minutes the 
salt becomes of a violet colour. If there is no formaldehyde 
present, a brown colour only is developed, ultimately becoming 
black. 

The Phlorog-lucol or Jorissen's Test. This depends upon 
the production of a salmon colour when phloroglucol and a 
caustic alkali are added to a solution containing formaldehyde. 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 339 

To 25 c.c. of the milk in a flask or test-tube, 10 c.c. of a Ol per 
cent, solution of phloroglucol are added, and the mixture 
shaken. To this is added 10 c.c. of a 5 per cent, solution of 
sodium or potassium hydrate. After agitating, the charac- 
teristic colour more or less quickly appears if formalin is 
present even to the extent of 1 part in 100,000. 

The alkali may produce a yellowish tint if the milk has 
been boiled, or if it contains added colouring matter, but such 
a tint is quite distinct from that produced by formaldehyde. 

In our experience it is preferable to use the following 
modification of this test. Eaise 100 c.c. of the milk to the 
boiling point, add a few drops of 25 per cent, sulphuric acid, 
and agitate gently so as to get as complete a separation of the 
curd as possible ; cool quickly and strain through linen. A 
portion of the liquid, which is now only slightly opalescent, is 
used for the phloroglucol test, another portion can be tested 
with alkali only for comparative purposes, and the remainder 
may be used for the following test. 

Schiff's Test. To 25 c.c. of the strained fluid add a few 
drops of Schiff's reagent (a solution of magenta decolourized 
with sulphurous acid). In the presence of formaldehyde a 
magenta colour appears more or less quickly according to the 
amount of the aldehyde present. This test cannot be applied 
to milk direct, since the latter contains some body which gives 
the formaldehyde reaction. Whatever the nature of this sub- 
stance may be, it is removed in the curd. 

Dr. Tebb, Public Analyst to the Borough of Southwark, has 
made a detailed study of the use of Schiff's reagent for the 
detection of formaldehyde in milk, and the following are the 
details of the process he has devised : 

' To Precipitate the Casein and Fat from Milk. Fifty cubic 
centimetres of the sample are measured out into a tall cylindrical 
glass of 250 c.c. capacity, the glass is filled up to the 250 c.c. 
mark with water, the milk and water are well mixed together, 
and 0'4 c.c. of a 25 per cent, solution of sulphuric acid is 
added. The mixture is well agitated with a glass rod for a 



340 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

minute or so. The casein and fat will then separate as a 
coarse precipitate, leaving a more or less clear liquid at the 
top. The precipitate is allowed to settle for about five minutes 
and the liquid filtered. In the majority of samples the filtrate 
will come through quite clear, but occasionally it will be 
opalescent or even milky ; when this happens the remainder of 
the 250 c.c. should be poured on to the filter, and it will be 
found that after about 100 c.c. have gone through, the filtrate 
will become quite clear ; this is owing to the precipitate itself 
lining the inside of the filter and increasing the filtering power 
of the paper. 

' Preparation of the Schiff's Reagent. One gramme of 
ordinary crystalline fuchsine (not the acid fuchsine) is weighed 
out and placed in a 50 c.c. flask, which is filled up to the mark 
on the neck with a cold saturated solution of sulphurous acid 
in water. The sulphurous acid solution may be conveniently 
prepared by means of a syphon of the compressed gas. After 
standing for several hours the fuchsine loses its colour and 
goes into solution, the liquid assuming a light yellow tint. 
Then dilute the 50 c.c. to 1 litre with distilled water, and 
proceed as follows : Two Nessler glasses are taken, to one of 
them is added 0'5 c.c. of a 1 in 1,000 dilution of formalin, 
and both glasses are filled up to the 50 c.c. mark with water ; 
then 5 c.c. of the Schiff's reagent are added to each glass, 
which is stirred and allowed to stand for ten minutes. It will 
be found that both solutions show a marked pink colour 
that is to say, that at this stage the simple dilution of the 
reagent with water will give a similar reaction to the form- 
aldehyde. To make the Schiff's reagent sensitive, sulphurous 
acid gas is bubbled in from the syphon for about ten seconds 
at a time until a point is reached when it will react in the 
Nessler glass containing formalin, but not with the plain water 
after standing for ten minutes. If the reagent is too strongly 
impregnated with sulphurous acid it will cease to react to 
the formalin, and hence the care required in conducting 
these operations. 250 c.c. of the Schiff's reagent prepared as 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOKIC ACID, ETC. 341 

above (Ol per cent, fuchsine) will be made sensitive by 
bubbling in the gas at a medium rate for about thirty or forty 
seconds. 

' Application of Test. Fifty c.c. of the clear filtrate from the 
sample of milk are poured into a Nessler glass, 5 c.c. of the 
Schiff's reagent added, and the mixture is allowed to stand 
for ten minutes. In estimating small traces of formaldehyde, 
which may readily be done if the Schiff's reagent is sufficiently 
sensitive, it is advisable to allow the liquid to stand for a longer 
period that is to say, for half an hour or even an hour. To 
estimate the exact percentage of formaldehyde a number of 
standards must be prepared of known amounts of formalin 
added to milk. Each standard is treated by precipitation, 
filtration, &c., in precisely the same manner as the sample. 
The Schiff's reagent is then added, and the colour of the sample 
in the Nessler glass is matched with the nearest standard. If 
the Schiff's reagent is already prepared, the whole analysis, 
including the precipitation, filtration, &c., of six or eight 
standards can easily be completed within the hour.' 

From experiments made to ascertain for how long after the 
addition of the formalin it is possible to detect it in the milk, 
Tebb found that this depended on the amount added. With 
O004 per cent, a considerable portion was present at the end of 
fifty-three hours, whilst with O001 per cent, all had disappeared 
by the following day. 

It is impossible to obtain the whole of the formaldehyde 
introduced into a sample of milk by distillation either of the 
milk alone, or after the addition of a little sulphuric acid, but 
apparently one-third of the total quantity present passes over 
in the first 20 c.c. distilled from 100 c.c. of milk. The tests 
above described can be applied to this distillate, but it seems 
to us to be preferable to use the whey, and to examine the 
sample as quickly as possible after collection. 

The following test suggested by Hehner may be applied to 
such a distillate. To about 20 c.c. of the distilled fluid add 
one drop of a 5 per cent, solution of phenol, and pour carefully 



342 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

into a test-tube containing a little strong sulphuric acid. A 
crimson colour is produced at the plane of contact of the two 
fluids if formaldehyde be present. The colour appears in a' 
very short time with 1 part of formaldehyde in 100,000, and 
instantly with a little stronger solution. The limit appears to 
be 1 in 200,000. 

Formaldehyde being a reducing agent, its presence can 
also be confirmed in the distillate by adding thereto a few 
drops of a solution of aminonio-nitrate of silver and setting the 
tube aside, in the dark, for twenty-four hours. The distillate 
from a pure milk may give a faint brown colour, but in the 
presence of any appreciable quantity of formaldehyde the liquid 
becomes black. The reaction can be obtained in the distillate 
(20 c.c.) from milk (100 c.c.) containing 1 part of the preservative 
in 250,000. 

As milk requires about 1 part of pure formaldehyde 
(2 parts of the 40 per cent, commercial solution) to 10,000 
in order to keep it fresh for three days, it is obvious that all 
the above tests should give very distinct reactions with milk to 
which sufficient preservative has been added to prevent rapid 
change. Unfortunately, however, as already stated, the aldehyde 
is gradually decomposed, and after some days it almost, if not 
entirely, disappears ; hence the amount present in a sample 
may- not at all represent that originally introduced. The 
tests, therefore, should be applied as soon after the milk is 
received as possible. The decomposition proceeds more rapidly 
if the formaldehyde is added to milk already tending to become 
sour. 

All the tests described have applied to milk simply because 
formalin is the most common preservative used for this 
commodity, and it is comparatively rarely found in other 
articles of food or drink. From most other articles the form- 
aldehyde may be obtained by distillation, and the various 
tests applied to the distillate. 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BORIC ACID, ETC. 343 

VOLUMETRIC ESTIMATION OF FORMALDEHYDE 

The simplest and, in our experience, the most accurate 
process for estimating small quantities of formaldehyde is 
the following. It is based on that devised by Seyewetz and 
Gibello, 1 and takes advantage of the well-known reaction of 
aldehydes with bisulphites. When formaldehyde is added to 
a strong solution of sodium sulphite, the latter is in part 
decomposed, with the formation of the compound of aldehyde 
and bisulphite and liberation of sodium hydrate. The amount 
of the latter can easily be determined, and, as the following 

41 

equation shows, 1 c.c. of sulphuric acid corresponds to 3 p O 

mlgm. of formaldehyde : 

2Na 2 S0 3 + H 2 S0 4 + 2H . COH = 2NaHS0 3 . H . COH + Na 2 SO 4 . 

The reagents required are : (a) a 20 per cent, solution of sodium 
sulphite, to which a very small quantity of phenol-phthalein 
has been added, and sufficient dilute sulphuric acid to just 
discharge the colour ; (b) a decinormal solution of sulphuric 
acid. The process is conducted as follows : Take 20 c.c. of 
the sulphite solution, add thereto the solution of formalin, 
obtained by distillation from the substance under examination, 
and allow to stand for two or three minutes. A pink colour 
appears, and the volumetric solution of acid is now run in 
carefully until this colour is entirely discharged. As each c.c. 
of acid used corresponds to 3 mlgm. of formic aldehyde, the 
quantity in the liquid is readily calculated. 

The following experiments were made to ascertain the 
reliability of the method : 

A solution of formaldehyde (Schering). guaranteed to 
contain 40 per cent., was employed and diluted to correspond 
to O'l per cent. This dilute solution was added to the neutra- 
lized sodium sulphite in varying quantities, and the titration 
effected. 

1 Cfamical News, March 25, 1905 



344 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Quantity of formaldehyde taken 
(calculated) 



lO'O mlgm. 

10-0 

7-0 
5-0 
2-0 



Quantity of formaldehyde found 



1O5 mlgm. 
10-5 

7-5 

5-1 

1-9 



Using a 1 per cent, solution of formaldehyde the following 
results were obtained : 



Quantity of formaldehyde taken 
(calculated) 


Quantity of formaldehyde found 


20 mlgm. 
50 
100 


21-0 mlgm. 
52-5 
106 



It is almost certain that the strong solution used contained 
over 40 per cent, of formaldehyde, as the mean of the three 
last determinations corresponds to 42-1 per cent. Such being 
the case, the results for the very small quantities are exceed- 
ingly close. In any case they are very concordant, and better 
than we have obtained by any other process. 

ABEASTOL OB ASAPEOL 

This substance may be detected, according to Leffmann, 1 
by the following process. If milk is being examined, take 
10 c.c. and treat with 0'5 c.c. of a solution of mercuric nitrate 
(prepared by dissolving mercury in twice its weight of nitric 
acid and diluting with five times the quantity of water). If 
abrastol is present a yellow colouration is quickly shown. A 
control experiment with pure milk should be made at the same 
time. In wines, &c., the preservative may be detected by 
acidifying with a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid and shaking 
with an equal volume of ether or chloroform. The ether or 
chloroform solution is drawn off, a few drops of the mercuric 
nitrate solution added, and the liquids shaken. Abrastol is 

1 The Analyst, p. 21, January 1906. 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 345 

indicated by the mercury solution turning yellow, and finally 
to bright red. If a fat is being examined it should be melted 
and the abrastol removed by shaking with 20 per cent, alcohol. 
The alcohol can then be distilled off and the mercuric nitrate 
applied to the residual aqueous solution. 

SALICYLIC ACID 

In comparatively few instances can tests be applied directly 
to articles of drink or infusions of food-stuffs for the detection 
of this acid, since so many substances interfere with the 
reactions, either masking them or preventing such as are 
characteristic. For this reason it is always advisable to 
attempt the separation of the acid in order to apply the tests 
to the acid itself or to solutions of neutral salicylates. Advan- 
tage is taken of the fact that the acid is but slightly soluble in 
cold water (1 in 550), whereas it is exceedingly soluble in ether 
(1 in 2) and in a mixture of ether and petroleum spirit. It melts 
between 156 to 157 C., and volatilizes completely below 
200 C. It slowly volatilizes at a much lower temperature, 
hence its amount cannot be accurately determined by drying 
and weighing. It is rarely present, however, in articles of 
food or drink in such quantities as to render a gravimetric or 
volumetric estimation practicable, but fortunately there is 
little difficulty in estimating small quantities colori metrically 
providing the pure acid is isolated. The reaction utilized for 
this purpose is the production of an intense purple-violet 
colour on the addition of a little ferric salt to a dilute solution, 
and it is very characteristic in the absence of other colour- 
producing bodies. This test, if properly applied, will detect 
1 part of salicylic acid in 300,000. 

If the fluid to be tested contains no appreciable amount 
of any substance, such as tannin, capable of giving a colour 
reaction with ferric salts, the acid may usually be obtained 
in solution sufficiently pure for estimation by the following 
process : 

Render the solution slightly alkaline with KHO, and 



346 . PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

evaporate to remove any alcohol present. Acidify with dilute 
sulphuric acid, and extract the salicylic acid by agitating with 
three successive quantities of a mixture of equal parts of ether 
and petroleum spirit. Distil off most of the ether mixture, 
and shake the concentrated fluid with water rendered slightly 
alkaline with solution of ammonia. The watery solution 
should be warmed to drive off the dissolved ether, and, after 
evaporation nearly to dryness and redilution, the liquid may 
be tested qualitatively by aid of a solution of ferric chloride. 
If the colour produced indicates the presence of interfering 
substances, the solution may be acidified, extracted with the 
mixture of ether and petroleum ether, &c., as before. In 
nearly all cases the acid, if present, will be sufficiently pure 
for detection and estimation. In the presence of tannin the 
following process devised by Harry and Mummery ' can be 
recommended : 

Into a 300 c.c. flask introduce 50 grammes of the fluid or 
pulp to be examined together with a little water, and mix with 
15 to 20 c.c. of a saturated solution of basic lead acetate. 
Add 25 c.c. of N. scda solution and afterwards 15 to 20 c.c. of 
strong hydrochloric acid. Dilute up to 300 c.c. and filter off 
200 c.c. Acidulate with hydrochloric acid and again filter if 
the liquid becomes turbid. The salicylic acid is then dissolved 
out by means of ether (three times), the ether evaporated off, 
the residue dissolved in a few drops of alcohol, diluted with 
distilled water to 100 c.c., and the salicylic acid estimated 
colorimetrically with ferric chloride or iron alum. In this 
process the alkali added first throws down the excess of lead, 
then redissolves the hydroxide, the albuminoids, and the lead 
salicylate, whilst the lead tannate remains undissolved. 

If the fluid examined contains alcohol this must be 
previously driven off by evaporating on the water-bath, the 
solution first being made slightly alkaline. 

The amount of lead acetate solution and of alkali may have 
to be increased a little, to secure rapidity of filtration and 
1 The Analyst, 1905, p. 124. 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 347 

solution of the minimal quantity of lead hydroxide. In most 
beers and wines it is merely necessary to render slightly 
alkaline, evaporate to remove all the alcohol, and, after acidify- 
ing, to extract with ether. When very small quantities of 
salicylic acid are present the evaporation may be prolonged so 
as to concentrate the fluid. A convenient quantity to take is 
200 c.c. evaporated to 50 c.c. 

Spica * recommends the following method for the recognition 
of salicylic acid and, incidentally also, of saccharin. The 
ether and petroleum-ether solution is divided into three 
portions in test-tubes and each evaporated to dryness. The 
residues are used for the following tests. 

1. To the residue in one tube add a few drops of strong 
nitric acid, warm for a few seconds, dilute with water, insert a 
piece of grease-free wool, and raise and maintain at the boiling 
point for some minutes. If the residue contained salicylic 
acid, the nitric acid would oxidize it to picric acid, and this 
would stain the wool a bright yellow. 

2. To the second residue add about a centigramme of quick- 
lime in fine powder and heat until charring commences. Add 
a few c.c. of water, boil, and decant the solution into another 
tube. Acidify with hydrochloric acid and add a fragment of 
zinc. After standing twenty minutes, pour off the solution, and 
add to it a few drops of a solution of potassium nitrate and 
a-naphthylamine hydrochloride. If saccharin were originally 
present, even in very minute quantity, a carmine colour will 
appear in a few minutes. 

3. To the third residue add a few drops of sulphuric acid 
and a small crystal of potassium permanganate and warm. 
Remove the excess of permanganate by the addition of a little 
oxalic acid or solution of sulphurous acid. Dilute with a few 
c.c. of water, and add at the bottom of the tube, by means of a 
pipette, a few drops of a solution of diphenylamine hydro- 
chloride. The presence of saccharin is indicated by the 
formation of a blue ring at the junction of the two fluids. 

1 The Analyst, 1900, p. 277. 



348 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

For the detection and estimation of salicylic acid in butter 
and milk special processes must be used, the fat present 
rendering the ordinary methods inapplicable. 

Milk. If the sample contains an appreciable amount of 
salicylic acid, the addition of a solution of ferric chloride, 
sufficient in amount to curdle the milk, will produce a dirty, 
pale-brown colour, and in the separated whey a tint of violet 
may be detected. The difference is very marked when com- 
pared with a genuine milk. 

Pellet's method consists in treating the milk with mercuric 
nitrate, and extracting the salicylic acid from the nitrate by 
means of ether. For this purpose 200 c.c. of the milk should 
be diluted with an equal quantity of water, warmed to 60 C., 
and 1 c.c. of acetic acid added. A solution of mercuric nitrate 
(free from any mercurous salt) is dropped in until no further 
precipitate is produced. The liquid is then filtered off, rendered 
slightly alkaline, evaporated to about 100 c.c., acidified, and 
shaken with ether. 

Butter. The method adopted in the Paris Municipal 
Laboratory consists in exhausting 20 grammes of the butter 
with successive quantities of warm water to which a little 
sodium bicarbonate has been added. The liquid is evaporated 
to a small bulk, acidified with sulphuric acid, and the salicylic 
and other acids extracted by ether. The ether is driven off 
at a temperature of about 80 C., and the residue dissolved 
in a little water, and the salicylic acid precipitated with 
mercurous nitrate. The precipitate is washed, diffused through 
a little water, and the acid liberated by the addition of a few 
drops of dilute sulphuric acid. This is taken up by ether, 
and the ethereal solution again evaporated nearly to dryness, 
and treated with petroleum spirit to separate traces of the 
other acids. Upon evaporation of this solution, the acid is 
then left in a condition sufficiently pure for detection and 
estimation. 

The results obtained by quantitative examination methods, 
which necessitate drying of the separated salicylic acid, must 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 394 

always be a little too low ; better results are obtained by 
colorimetric or volumetric methods. 

When the amount of salicylic acid isolated amounts to 
several milligrammes the volumetric method may be utilized 
for its determination, but even this quantity may be estimated 
colorimetrically, providing the solution is so diluted that it 
contains not more than 2 mlgm. of the acid in 100 c.c. of 
water. 

Colorimetric Method of Estimation. In using this method 
certain precautions must be observed to ensure reliable results. 
The salicylic acid must be sufficiently pure, and the solution 
containing it must be free from any trace of alkalinity. The 
ferric salt employed should, if possible, be iron alum, as this 
gives a purer and deeper colour than ferric chloride. According 
to Harvey J a trace of tannin does not affect the estimation, 
but it is obvious that any appreciable quantity would render 
it impossible to attain correct results. The solutions required 
are (1) a 1 per cent, solution of iron alum in distilled water, 
and (2) a 0-1 per cent, solution of salicylic acid, also in 
distilled water. The solution to be tested is diluted to 50, 
100 c.c., or more, according to the result obtained by a rough 
experiment, and to 50 c.c. in a Nessler cylinder is added 2 c.c. 
of the iron-alum dilution. Various solutions of the standard 
salicylic acid are then made until one is obtained which corre- 
sponds to that which is being examined. 

Volumetric Method. The volumetric method recommended 
by Fresenius and Grunhut 2 is applicable for quantities of 
salicylic acid from 5 mlgm. upwards, if proper precautions are 
observed, but unless the operator has had some experience 
with the process his results are likely to be unreliable. The 
method is based upon the following reactions : 

C ( ;H 2 Br 3 . OBr + 4HBr + C0 2 
C f) H 2 Br 3 . OBr + 2KI = C 6 H 2 Br 3 . OK + KBr + I 2 

from which it is evident that 6 atoms of bromine (480 parts) 
are equivalent to 1 molecule (138 parts) of salicylic acid. 
1 The Analyst, 1903, p. 2. 2 The Analyst, 1900, p. 20. 



350 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

The solutions required are : 

1. A solution containing 2'5 grammes of potassium bromate 
and lO'O grammes of potassium bromide in 1 litre of water. 

2. A decinormal solution of sodium thiosulphate. 

Upon adding a solution of salicylic acid to the acidified 
bromate solution the above reaction takes place, providing 
that the solution is not too dilute, and that a considerable 
excess (75 to 100 per cent.) of bromine is present, and the 
brominated derivative is deposited in an insoluble condition. 
Upon adding excess of potassium iodide, and titrating with 
thiosulphate, the excess of bromine can be determined, and 
each rnlgm. of bromine removed from the solution corresponds 
to 2-3 mlgm. of salicylic acid. The process must be carefully 
performed in the following manner. The approximate amount 
of salicylic acid must be known, either from a rough colori- 
metric determination, or by weighing, and it must be dissolved 
in water, 10 c.c. to each mlgm. of acid. 

Introduce into a flask and add 1 c.c. of the bromate solution 
for each 10 c.c. of the solution, and a volume of strong hydro- 
chloric acid equal to half that of the bromate solution. After 
standing not less than five minutes for the reaction to take 
place, add an excess of potassium iodide, and titrate the 
liberated iodine with thiosulphate. Each c.c. of bromate 
solution will correspond to 1-5 c.c. of sodium thiosulphate, 
and each c.c. of thiosulphate represents 8 mlgm. of bromine, 
or 2-3 mlgm. of salicylic acid. If a represents the number of 
c.c. of bromate solution used, and b the number of c.c. of 
thiosulphate required to combine with the liberated iodine, 
then (1*5 a b) x2'3=mlgm. of salicylic acid present. 

The following results were obtained by this process : 



Quantity of salicylic acid taken Quantity of salicylic acid found 



lO'O mlgm. 
5-0 
20-0 
44-0 
115-0 



9-89 mlgm. 

5-06 
19-55 
43-91 
114-49 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 351 

BEN zoic ACID 

Considering the marked antiseptic properties of this acid, 
it is singular that it is not more used. There is a probability, 
however, that its use is more extensive than is generally 
suspected. It is not so easy to detect with certainty as 
salicylic acid, and if a mere trace of the latter acid is present, 
the difficulty of discovering the presence of benzoic acid is 
greatly accentuated. For these reasons it is probably either 
not frequently sought for, or is overlooked in the presence of 
salicylic acid. 

Its isolation is attempted in exactly the same way as 
already described for salicylic acid. The ether solution, on 
evaporation, may contain salicylic or benzoic acids, or both, 
and also saccharin and traces of colouring matter arid acetic 
acid. None of these interfere with the ordinary tests for 
salicylic acid, but all interfere with certain of the tests for 
benzoic acid. Saccharin may be detected by the taste, colour- 
ing matter by the appearance, acetic acid by the odour, and 
salicylic acid by the ferric chloride test. If all these are 
absent, the residue may be dissolved in a small quantity of 
water to which a little solution of ammonia has been added, 
and the solution evaporated nearly to dryness to drive off every 
trace of ammonia. The residue may be slightly diluted, and a 
drop of solution of ferric chloride added, when in presence of a 
benzoate a characteristic flesh-coloured precipitate is produced. 
Unfortunately this is by no means a delicate test. 

In Massachusetts the State Board of Health frequently 
reports the finding of benzoic acid in jams, ketchup, &c. In 
the report for 1902 it is stated that, of samples of jams and 
jellies examined, seven contained benzoic acid, and three 
salicylic acid. They point out that the ferric chloride test as 
usually applied is inapplicable to such products as sweet 
pickles, by reason of the formation of basic ferric acetate 
when ferric chloride is applied, and that in the case of jams 
the characteristic colour of the ferric benzoate is apt to be 



352 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

obscured by the artificial colouring matter so often present. 
In such cases they recommend the following method of pro- 
cedure : 

' Extract the acidified sample with ether, add ammonia to 
the ether extract in excess, and evaporate to dryness in a large 
watch-glass. Fasten with clips or otherwise another watch- 
glass of the same size above it, thereby forming a double 
convex shell, a sheet of filter paper being preferably interposed 
between the two glasses, and heat the lower watch-glass on a 
small sand-bath, or over a small flame. If benzoic acid is 
present, crystals of the same will be sublimed on the upper 
watch-glass, where they may be recognized under the micro- 
scope ; or they may be dissolved in dilute ammonia, the solu- 
tion evaporated to dryness, the residue taken up with water, 
and the final solution tested by ferric chloride in the usual 
manner.' 

Peter's Method. In the absence of salicylic acid and 
saccharin, the benzoic acid may be oxidized to salicylic acid by 
the following process. 1 

' A portion of the residue, say Ol gramme, from the ether 
or chloroform extraction of the suspected article, is transferred 
to a large test-tube, and dissolved in from 5 to 8 c.c. of strong 
sulphuric acid. Small portions of barium peroxide are then 
successively added, and the tube shaken in cold water to keep 
the temperature down, using from O5 to O8 gramme of the 
peroxide in all. This should produce a permanent froth on 
the sulphuric acid solution. After standing for half an hour 
the test-tube is filled three-quarters full of water, and the 
mixture shaken, quickly cooled, and filtered. The filtrate is 
then extracted with ether-chloroform, and the extract tested in 
the regular manner for salicylic acid/ 

Erevan's Method 2 is said to be capable of detecting the 
presence of a milligramme of benzoic acid in the absence of 

1 Dep. Agric., U.S.A., Bureau Chem., Bulletin 65, p. 160 ; Leach, Food Inspec- 
tion, p. 674. 

2 Annalcs de Chiin. Analyt., vii. 43 ; Year Book of Pharmacy, 1902, p. 39. 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 353 

interfering bodies. The ether residue is transferred to a perfectly 
dry test-tube and O5 c.c. of aniline oil, containing O02 gramme 
of rosaniline hydrochloride in 100 c.c. of oil, is added. This is 
boiled on a sand-bath for half an hour, the mouth of the tube 
being covered with a small bulb of water to condense the 
aniline vapour. If benzoic acid is present the original red 
tint of the liquid will have changed to a more or less decided 
violet blue. After cooling, a few drops of hydrochloric acid 
are added to combine with the excess of aniline, and the 
mixture diluted with water. In the presence of benzoic acid 
in the original substance an insoluble dark-blue compound is 
deposited, which is collected, washed free from violet colour 
with water, and then dissolved in alcohol. The alcohol has a 
marked blue colour if the original substance contained as little 
as 1 mlgm. of benzoic acid. In our hands this test gives 
better results with salicylic acid than with benzoic acid. In 
some experiments recently made, the presence of saccharin did 
not appear to interfere with the reaction. The blue colour is 
best obtained by passing the turbid diluted liquid through a 
small filter, when the blue colouring matter is left on the 
surface of the paper, and after washing can be dissolved in 
alcohol. 

Meisol's Method. 1 Kender 250 c.c. of the milk alkaline 
with baryta water, evaporate in the water-bath to 60 c.c. 
and mix with sufficient plaster-of-Paris to make a paste, then 
continue the evaporation to dryness. Powder the residue, 
moisten with very dilute sulphuric acid, and exhaust with 
50 per cent, alcohol. Distil off the alcohol, and evaporate 
the residual aqueous solution to a low bulk, acidify with 
sulphuric acid if necessary, and exhaust by repeated shakings 
with ether. On evaporation of the ether, the benzoic acid is 
deposited, and may be recognized by its crystalline form, 
volatility, action with ferric chloride, &c. 

There are no methods of quantitatively estimating ben- 
zoic acid such as have been described for salicylic acid. An 

1 Chemical News, 1903, p. 283. 

23 



354 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

approximation may be obtained by using a larger quantity of 
material, and weighing the ether residue, carefully dried at 
as low a temperature as possible. 

FOEMIC ACID 

The substance under examination must be acidified with 
sulphuric or phosphoric acid, and distilled. The distillate, if 
acid, is neutralized with ammonia, and evaporated to a low 
bulk. With this solution, a formate being present, ferric 
chloride yields a reddish coloured precipitate, becoming more 
marked on boiling. Ammonio-nitrate of silver yields a white 
precipitate, becoming black on boiling, and mercurous nitrate 
yields a white precipitate, which quickly becomes grey from 
reduction to metallic mercury. Dilute solutions may give no 
precipitate with the silver salt, but deposit metallic silver on 
heating. 

Quantitative Estimation. We can find no method de- 
scribed for estimating small quantities of formic acid, but in 
our hands the following process has given excellent results. 
It depends upon the oxidation of the acid in the presence of an 
alkali by permanganate of potassium. 

To the distillate containing the formic acid, concentrated if 
necessary, add 10 c.c. of solution of sodium hydrate (20 per 
cent.), raise to the boiling point, and run in from a burette a 
solution of permanganate (1 c.c. = l mlgm. 0) in excess. Keep 
near the boiling point for fifteen minutes, more permanganate 
being added if necessary to keep the liquid very distinctly 
coloured. Allow to cool, add sulphuric acid in excess, dilute, 
put in a few crystals of potassium iodide, and titrate with 
sodium thiosulphate. The amount of permanganate added 
being known, the amount used up by the oxidation of the 
formic acid is estimated. As 16 mlgm. of oxygen will oxidize 
46 mlgm. of formic acid, the quantity of the latter present is 
readily calculated. 

2H.CH0 



DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF BOEIC ACID, ETC. 355 
The following results were obtained in testing this process : 



Quantity of acid taken 


Quantity of acid found 


3-3 mlgm. 
6-5 
13-0 
19-5 
32-5 
65-0 


3'8 mlgm. 
6-4 , 
12-6 , 
19-0 , 
32-6 , 
64-7 , 



If the sodium hydrate solution is not made from metallic 
sodium it is advisable to boil it, and add a very dilute solution 
of permanganate until a faint but permanent colouration is 
obtained. The excess of permanganate is so small that no 
correction is necessary. If sulphurous acid be present, this 
must be converted into sulphuric acid by the very careful 
addition of iodine solution before rendering alkaline and adding 
the permanganate. 

Hydrogen Peroxide. This compound when added to milk 
or cream, or to any substance rich in organic matter, so readily 
splits up into water and oxygen that it will probably never be de- 
tected in any article to which it has been added as a preservative. 
When hydrogen peroxide has been added to milk in a larger 
proportion than is necessary to ' Buddeize ' it, its presence can 
only be detected for a few minutes after it has been added to 
the milk. 

The most delicate test consists in the addition to 50 c.c. of 
the milk of 1 c.c. of 5 per cent, solution of potassium iodide, 
a little starch solution and 1 c.c. of dilute hydrochloric acid 
(1 : 6). In the presence of a minute quantity of the peroxide 
the blue colour appears at once. The limit of the test appears 
to be 1 part of H 2 2 in 50,000 parts of fresh milk. With such 
a dilution the reaction can only be obtained for a few minutes 
after mixing. If the milk is becoming sour the hydrogen 
peroxide appears to be decomposed instantly, and a far larger 
quantity must be added to admit of detection. 

Bach's reagent whilst differentiating between hydrogen 



356 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

peroxide and chlorine, nitrites, and other bodies capable of 
liberating iodine from potassium iodide, is far less delicate than 
the above. The reagent consists of two solutions : (1) O03 
gramme potassium bichromate and 5 drops of aniline oil in 
1 litre of water ; (2) a 5 per cent, solution of oxalic acid. To 
5 c.c. of the solution to be tested an equal volume of the bi- 
chromate solution is added and 1 drop of the oxalic acid 
solution. Upon shaking, the production of a violet red 
colouration, which reaches its maximum intensity very quickly, 
indicates the presence of a peroxide. 

Kingsett's method for determining the strength of solutions 
of hydrogen peroxide is as follows : Mix 10 c.c. of the solution 
with 40 c.c. of 25 per cent, sulphuric acid and 50 c.c. distilled 
water. Add 10 c.c. of this dilution to an equal volume of 
10 per cent, solution of potassium iodide and allow to stand for 
five minutes. Titrate the iodine liberated with decinormal 
solution of sodium thiosulphate, and calculate the amount of 
hydrogen peroxide from the equation H 2 2 + 2HI=2H 2 + I 2 . 
The thiosulphate being of the correct strength, each c.c. will 
represent 0'8 mlgrn. of available oxygen or !? mlgm. H 2 2 . 



CHAPTEE XXVIII 

DETECTION AND ESTIMATION OF METALLIC IMPURITIES 

Arsenic. The commission of experts appointed by the 
Manchester Brewers' Association recommended Eeinsch's test 
for the detection of arsenic in beer, and directed it to be per- 
formed in the following manner : 

' Take 200 c.c. of the beer in a porcelain evaporating dish, 
acidulate with 1 c.c. of pure concentrated hydrochloric acid, and 
evaporate until the volume of liquid is reduced to one-half. Then 
add a further 15 c.c. of the hydrochloric acid, and insert a piece of 
pure burnished copper foil, a quarter of an inch by half an inch in 
size, and keep the solution gently simmering for an hour, replacing 
the evaporated liquor from time to time by distilled water. If at the 
end of an hour the copper remains bright and red, the beer is arsenic 
free. 

' If a deposit is obtained on the copper, the foil should be removed, 
washed successively with water, alcohol, and ether, dried at a tem- 
perature not exceeding 100 C. and subjected to slow sublimation in 
a thin reduction tube, not less than 2 inches long and having an 
internal diameter of - 15 inch, the upper portion of which should be 
warmed before the sublimation begins. For the purpose of the 
sublimation a small spirit lamp should be used. If any sublimate is 
obtained, it must be examined under a magnifying power of about 
200 diameters. Any sublimate which does not show well-marked 
octahedral or tetrahedral crystals is not to be considered arsenical. 
Mere blackening of the copper, or deposit thereon, does not demon- 
strate the presence of arsenic. 

' The addition of oxidizing agents to decompose sulphites, and 
the use of reducing agents to decompose possible arsenates, is not 
recommended, as such a procedure is in our opinion unnecessary 
in the testing of beer, and introduces possible sources of error.' 

This test is not absolutely reliable, nor is it so delicate as 
the test next to be described. It will, however, detect one- 



358 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

fiftieth of a grain of arsenic in the gallon of beer (1 in 3,500,000). 
Neither this nor Marsh's test will detect arsenic in organic 
combination, hence when the presence of such a compound is 
suspected the organic matter must be destroyed before apply- 
ing tests. 

A conjoint Committee of the Society of Chemical Industry 
and of the Society of Public Analysts, appointed in March 
1901, after an examination of various methods of detecting and 
estimating arsenic, recommended the methods of Marsh- 
Berzelius, and finding great difficulty in obtaining arsenic-free 
chemicals, the Committee in their report described the methods 
they recommended for securing the requisite purity of the re- 
agents, &c., employed. The following is a copy of their report, 1 
every detail of which must be carefully followed if reliable 
results are to be obtained. 

' Materials required. Hydrochloric acid. The purest hydrochloric 
acid obtainable is very rarely free from arsenic. To the " pure " acid, 
as purchased for analysis, diluted with distilled water to a specific 
gravity of I'lO, sufficient bromine is added to colour it strongly 
yellow (about 5 c.c. per litre), sulphurous acid, either gaseous or in 
aqueous solution, is then added in excess, and the mixture is aUowed 
to stand for at least twelve hours. Or hydrobromic acid and 
sulphurous acid may be used. The acid is then boiled till about 
one-fifth has evaporated, and the residue can either be used direct, 
or may be distilled, the whole of the arsenic having volatilized with 
the first portion. 

' Sulphuric acid. This is more frequently obtainable arsenic-free 
than hydrochloric acid. If not procurable, to about half a litre of 
sulphuric acid, " pure for analysis," a few grammes of sodium 
chloride are added and the mixture distilled from a non-tubulated 
glass retort, the first portion of about 50 c.c. being rejected. For the 
purpose of the test to be described, one volume of the distilled acid is 
diluted with four volumes of water. 

' Nitric acid can, as a rule, be obtained free from arsenic without 
much difficulty, the pure redistilled acid being used. This should be 
tested by evaporating 20 c.c. in a porcelain dish, which should then 
be washed out with dilute acid, and tested as described in this 
report. 

1 TJie Analyst, February 1902, p. 48. 



DETECTION OF METALLIC IMPURITIES 359 

1 The purified acids should be prepared as required, and should not 
be stored for any length of time. If this be unavoidable, however, 
Jena flasks are to be preferred, since most bottle-glass is liable to 
communicate traces of arsenic. 

' Zinc. Arsenic-free zinc is obtainable from chemical dealers. It 
should be regranulated by melting it and pouring it from some height 
into cold water. 

' Lime. Caustic lime, even when made from white marble, is not 
always free from arsenic. A selection must, therefore, be made from 
various samples. If pure lime is not obtainable, magnesia may equally 
well be used, and can be more readily obtained of sufficient purity. 

1 Calcium Chloride. This salt often contains arsenic, and before 
being used as a drying agent must be freed from the volatilizable 
part of the impurity by moistening it with strong hydrochloric acid, 
fusing and regranulating. 

Apparatus. A bottle or flask, holding about 200 c.c. (for froth- 
ing materials preferably wider at top than bottom), is fitted with a 
doubly bored cork, india-rubber stopper, or with a ground-in glass 
connection, carrying a tapped funnel holding about 50 c.c. and an 
exit tube. The latter is connected with a drying tube containing, 
first, a roll of blotting-paper soaked in lead acetate solution and dried, 
or a layer of cotton-wool prepared in a similar way, then a wad of 
cotton-wool, then a layer of granulated calcium chloride, and finally 
a thick wad of cotton -wool. To this tube is fitted a hard-glass tube, 
drawn out as shown in the figure, and of such external diameter that 
at the place where the arsenic-mirror is to be expected the tube just 
passes through a No. 13 Birmingham wire gauge (corresponding 
with 0*092 inch). The exact size is not material, but all tubes used 
for standards and tests should be as nearly as practicable of the same 
diameter. A good Bunsen flame is used to heat the hard-glass tube 
close to the constriction. About 1 inch of tube, including the 
shoulder, ought to be red-hot. A piece of moderately fine copper 
gauze (about 1 inch square) wrapped round the portion of the tube 
to be heated assists in insuring equal distribution of heat. A suitable 
form of apparatus is shown in the figure on page 360. 

' About 20 grammes of zinc are placed in the bottle, and washed 
with water to clean the surface, as particles of dust may contain 
arsenic ; all parts of the apparatus are connected, and a sufficient 
quantity of acid (prepared as previously described) allowed to flow 
from the funnel, so as to cause a fairly brisk evolution of hydrogen. 
When the hydrogen flame, which during the heating of the tube 
should be kept at as uniform a height as possible (about a quarter of 



360 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



an inch), burns with a round, not pointed, tip, all air has been 
removed from the apparatus. The Bunsen burner should then be 
placed under the hard-glass tube as described, and more acid (10 to 
20 c.c. is generally enough) run in as required. With good materials 
no trace of a mirror is obtained within half an hour. Great care 
must be taken that when additions of acid are made to the zinc no 
bubble of air is introduced, since in presence of air the arsenic mirror 
may become black and unevenly distributed, whilst it is brown when 
the experiment has been properly conducted. 




' Should the blank experiment not be satisfactory it must be 
ascertained, by changing the materials methodically, whether the fault 
lies with the acid, zinc, other materials, or with the apparatus. 

' Preparation of Standard Mirrors. When a satisfactory blank 
experiment has been obtained, a series of standard mirrors must be 
prepared under the following conditions : 

' A hydrochloric acid solution of arsenious oxide, containing in 
each cubic centimetre O'OOl milligramme As 4 6 , is prepared by 
diluting a stronger solution with distilled water. Two c.c. of this 
solution (equal to 0'002 milligramme of arsenious oxide) are in- 
troduced into the apparatus, a new tube having been joined to the 
drying tube. If the zinc is sensitive, a distinct brown mirror is 
obtained after twenty minutes. It is important to note that some 
"pure" zinc is, from a cause at present unknown, 1 not sufficiently 

1 Vide Chapman and Law, The Analyst, 1906, p. 3. 



361 

sensitive that is to say, the addition of minute quantities of arsenic 
produces no mirrors. The portion of the tube containing the mirror 
should be sealed off while still filled with hydrogen ; in contact with 
air the mirrors gradually fade. Mirrors are now similarly made with 
0-004, 0-006, 0-008, and O'Ol milligramme of arsenious oxide. With 
a little patience it is easy to obtain the deposits of arsenic neatly and 
equally distributed. The standard mirrors, properly marked, are 
mounted on a white card or porcelain slip. It is to be understood 
that the first stage of every test must be a blank of at least twenty 
minutes. 

' Hydrochloric acid is somewhat more sensitive than sulphuric 
acid that is to say, it gives rather denser mirrors with minute 
quantities of arsenic. If for one reason or another sulphuric acid is 
preferred by the operator, he must make a set of standard mirrors 
with sulphuric acid, and use these for comparison. Organic 
materials, such as beer, yeast, &c., cannot be tested when sulphuric 
acid is used without destruction of the organic matter, whilst, as a 
rule, they can be directly tested with hydrochloric acid. However, 
many materials are met with in which it is preferable to destroy the 
organic matter. 

' Procedure without Destruction of Organic Matter. The apparatus 
is started, and a blank experiment allowed to go on for twenty 
minutes. If no trace of deposit is obtained, 10 c.c. of the liquid to be 
tested and about 10 c.c. of hydrochloric acid are put into the funnel, 
and slowly introduced into the bottle without air-bubbles. Some 
materials (beers, for example) are apt to froth, hence the necessity 
for slow introduction. If after about ten minutes no mirror appears, 
another 10 c.c. of the liquid, with 10 c.c. of hydrochloric acid, are 
added, and the experiment continued for fifteen to twenty minutes, 
acid being from time to time added as may appear necessary. 

' Malt. Fifty grammes of the malt are placed in a 300 c.c. 
separator funnel, furnished with a stopcock ; 50 c.c. of hydrochloric 
acid, prepared as described, and 50 c.c. of water are warmed to about 
50 C. and poured on the malt. The whole is then allowed to digest 
for fifteen to twenty minutes, with frequent agitation, and the acid 
then allowed to run off by the stopcock. About 60 c.c. of the acid 
liquor is thus obtained, of which every 20 c.c. contains the arsenic 
from 10 grammes of the malt. 

' Hops. Twenty grammes of hops are digested with 100 c.c. of 
dilute hydrochloric acid (one volume of the purified acid to one 
volume of water) at about 50 C. for half an hour, 50 c.c. of the 
strained-off liquid being used for the test. 



362 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

' Sugar and other brewing materials are dissolved in water, 10 c.c. 
of acid added, and the solution tested direct, operating upon from 
10 to 20 grammes of material. 

'Destruction of Organic Matter. (a) Acid Method. Ten grammes 
of the substance are placed in a S^-inch porcelain crucible, and 
covered with pure distilled nitric acid (about 10 to 15 c.c.). The 
whole is then heated on a sand-bath until the evolution of brown 
fumes ceases. Three c.c. of concentrated arsenic-free sulphuric acid 
are then added, and the heating continued until the mass just begins 
to char, when a further quantity of 5 c.c. of nitric acid is added. 
The heating is now continued until all the acid is expelled, leaving in 
the crucible a black, nearly dry, charred mass. The crucible is about 
half filled with water, and a few c.c. of hydrochloric acid, or of dilute 
sulphuric acid, run in (according as the one or the other is to be used 
in the Marsh apparatus), the whole being allowed to extract for about 
half an hour on a water-bath. It is then filtered into a porcelain 
basin, the charred mass washed with hot water, and the filtrate con- 
centrated down to about 30 c.c., which is allowed to cool, and is then 
ready for the test. It is essential that the mass should be thoroughly 
charred, and that the solution when filtered should be colourless. 

' In the case of beer, 10 to 20 c.c. are evaporated to dryness on a 
water-bath, and the residue oxidized as above stated. 

' Hops. Ten c.c. of pure nitric acid and 5 c.c. of pure con- 
centrated sulphuric acid are mixed in a 3^-inch porcelain crucible, 
and the hops are then added in small portions at a time, each 
quantity being thoroughly disintegrated by pressure under the acid 
with a glass rod, a further quantity of 5 c.c. of nitric acid being 
added when about half the hops have thus been introduced. The 
crucible with its contents is then cautiously warmed so as to avoid 
frothing over. When the evolution of dense red fumes ceases the 
heating is increased, and the acids are evaporated on a sand-bath, 
and a dry charred mass extracted with dilute acid, filtered, con- 
centrated, and introduced into the Marsh apparatus in the ordinary 
way. It may be noted that with many English hops of relatively 
fine texture the addition of the second quantity of nitric acid above 
recommended is unnecessary. 

' When, owing to the presence of larger quantities of arsenic, 
smaller amounts of substance e.g. 0'5 gramme to 2 grammes are 
taken, the quantities of acids recommended above may, of course, be 
reduced. 

' (b) Basic Method. The materials are mixed with pure lime or 
magnesia (1 gramme for 20 c.c. of beer), dried and incinerated. For 



DETECTION OF METALLIC IMPUKITIES 363 

sugars or other solid materials about half their weight of base is 
employed. The ash is dissolved in hydrochloric acid, and the solution 
tested. This method is not recommended for hops. 

' Of coal or other fuel, after careful sampling, two portions of 1 
gramme each are weighed. One portion is incinerated in a platinum 
dish in a muffle, and the hydrochloric acid extract of the ash tested 
for " non-volatile arsenic." The other is intimately mixed with 
1 gramme of lime or magnesia and also incinerated. The hydro- 
chloric acid extract of the latter gives the " total arsenic," the 
difference between the two determinations being the " volatile 
arsenic." It may in some cases be found that the above-mentioned 
quantity of fuel gives a mirror too dense to be measured. When 
this is the case the hydrochloric acid extract is diluted to a deter- 
minate volume and an aliquot portion taken. 

' Sulphites. The sulphurous acid must be oxidized by bromine, 
the excess of the latter being removed by heating. 

' The Committee have convinced themselves that arsenic in both 
states of oxidation can be detected and estimated by the procedure 
described. 

'As an additional precaution a fresh tube should always be 
substituted for that containing the mirror, and the experiment 
continued for a further period of fifteen minutes. Should a second 
mirror be formed, the quantity of arsenic with which it corresponds 
is to be added to that shown by the first. 

' It must be understood that the tests are only approximate, and 
that mirrors corresponding with less than 0*003 milligramme of 
arsenious oxide in the quantity of materials taken cannot be safely 
relied upon. When a mirror has been obtained, a duplicate test 
should always be made to preclude error by accidental contamination. 

' The proof that the mirrors are arsenical is obtained as follows : 
The narrow portion of the tube containing the mirror (which should 
not be denser that that produced by 0*01 milligramme of arsenious 
oxide) is cut off, the hydrogen replaced by air, and the ends sealed up. 
The tube, held in the tongs, is then heated by drawing it repeatedly 
through the flame of a Bunsen lamp until the mirror has disappeared. 
On cooling, minute crystals of arsenious oxide deposit, the sparkling 
of which can be seen with the naked eye if the tube be held before a 
luminous flame, and which can be readily identified under the 
microscope by their crystalline form. 

1 This test, as recommended, is one of such extreme delicacy, that 
with quantities of 20 grammes (or 20 c.c.) it will give an indication of 
the presence of 0-000015 per cent, (or 1 part in 7,000,000) of 
arsenious oxide.' 



364 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

This process gives excellent results and leaves little to be 
desired. It is the one now almost universally employed. An 
attempt has been made to simplify it, where an electric current 
of sufficient intensity is available, by generating the hydrogen 
electrolytically, using platinum electrodes. This method is fully 
described in the -report of the Inland Eevenue Departmental 
Committee. 1 

We have had no experience with this electrolytic process, 
but Sand and Hackford regard platinum electrodes as altogether 
unsuitable for the purpose, and recommend lead as a substitute. 2 

The advantages claimed for the electrolytic method are : 

1. That it obviates the use of zinc. 

2. That it is simple in execution. 

3. That the results obtained by different operators are 
strictly comparable. 

4. That the whole of the arsenic can be obtained from a 
beer in thirty minutes, and beer and aqueous extract of malt 
may be used without prior destruction of the organic matter. 

5. That the deposits obtained are more uniform in character 
than those furnished with the acid and zinc method. 

6. That a number of estimations may be made at the same 
time. 

The disadvantages are that the apparatus is costly, and 
that a current of sufficient intensity is not always available. 

Gauter 3 has described a method of separating very minute 
quantities of arsenic based on the fact that, on precipitating 
iron in the ferric state from the suspected solution, every trace 
of arsenic in solution is simultaneously carried down. The 
arsenic thus removed is subsequently determined by the Marsh- 
Berzelius method. The test is alleged to be so delicate that 
OOOl mlgm. of arsenic may be determined in a litre of water. 
Using this process Gauter has been able to show that arsenic 
is almost ubiquitous. 

1 Report Royal Commission on Arsenical Poisoning, vol. ii. p. 208. 

2 Proceedings, Chemical Society, xx. 123. 

3 Analyst, December, 1902, p. 367. 



DETECTION OF METALLIC IMPURITIES 365 

Many other excellent and delicate methods of detecting 
arsenic have been devised, but as the results would always 
require confirming by Marsh's test it is quite unnecessary to 
describe them. 

Lead and Copper. In water, and aerated waters free from 
saccharine matter, tests may be applied directly to the liquid 
for the detection of lead and for its estimation colorimetrically, 
but in all cases where organic matter is present the latter 
should be completely destroyed before proceeding to apply 
either qualitative or quantitative tests. 

A fair sample of the whole mass having been secured, it 
should be evaporated as nearly to dryness as possible in a 
porcelain capsule upon the water-bath, moistened with strong 
sulphuric acid (free from lead), and carefully heated until 
completely carbonized. The ignition may then be continued 
in a muffle until all the carbon has disappeared, the process 
being hastened, if necessary, by occasionally moistening the 
residue with strong nitric acid. The ash is then moistened with 
acetic acid, an excess of ammonia added with a little water, and 
the solution boiled and filtered. The process is repeated until 
the ash is exhausted, and the filtrate is made up to a definite 
volume. Small quantities may then be tested for copper by 
potassium ferrocyanide ; if any appreciable quantity is present 
the liquid will have a brown colour, if absent, lead may be 
detected by the addition of sulphuretted hydrogen, after 
acidifying with hydrochloric acid. If copper is present, a 
little potassium cyanide must be added to the solution before 
adding the sulphuretted hydrogen water to test for lead. 

The amount of copper present, if very minute, can be 
estimated colorimetrically by means of potassium ferrocyanide ; 
if present in appreciable quantity it may still be estimated 
colorimetrically by comparison with standard solutions of 
copper containing solution of ammonia, or it may be determined 
electrolytically. For this purpose a known quantity of the 
liquid is acidified, and placed in a tared platinum dish or 
crucible. This is connected to the zinc of a single Grove's 



366 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

cell. A platinum spatula or slip of platinum foil is connected 
with the platinum of the cell and suspended in the liquid, care 
being taken that it does not touch the side or bottom of the 
dish or crucible. The current is allowed to pass for several 
hours, or until a drop of the liquid removed ceases to give a 
colouration with dilute solution of potassium ferrocyanide. The 
dish is then removed, washed successively with boiling distilled 
water, alcohol, and ether, dried and weighed. The weight of 
the copper in the amount of liquid used being thus ascertained, 
a simple calculation gives the amount in the quantity of original 
material employed. 

In another portion the lead may be determined colori- 
metrically by the addition of sulphuretted hydrogen water, and 
comparison of the tint produced with that of solutions of lead of 
known strength. In the presence of copper, a little potassium 
cyanide must have been added prior to the introduction of the 
sulphuretted hydrogen. 

Paul and Cownley recommend the following process for 
the estimation of copper in vegetables. Carbonize about 100 
grammes in a platinum dish, extract the ash with strong 
hydrochloric acid, filter through an acid-washed filter into a 
porcelain dish. The residue, insoluble in acid, is moistened 
with a few drops of nitric acid, dried and ignited. The resulting 
mass is exhausted with strong hydrochloric acid filtered into the 
first portion in the porcelain dish, and the residue in the filter 
washed with hot water. The hydrochloric acid solution is 
then evaporated down to about 30 c.c., placed in a weighed 
platinum dish, the copper precipitated by pure zinc and 
weighed. If the deposited metal is not of a pure copper 
colour, it is dissolved in a little nitric acid, made up to a 
known quantity, and the metal estimated colorimetrically in 
an ammoniacal solution. 

Great differences are often found in determinations made 
by different chemists, and Vedrodi ! claims to have obtained 
a hundred times as much copper by the following method 

1 Chem. Zeit. May 1896, and Pharm. Journal, June 6, 1896. 



DETECTION OF METALLIC IMPUEITIES 367 

than by Lehinann's, which consists in destroying the organic 
matter with sulphuric acid. He burns the material in a muffle 
for eight hours, exhausts the ash with hydrochloric acid, pre- 
cipitates the copper as sulphide with sulphuretted hydrogen, 
and after ignition weighs as oxide. Dr. Paul has pointed out 
that it is unsafe to regard this final product as pure copper 
oxide. 

Tin. Proceed as directed for copper and lead to obtain the 
ash. Transfer this to a silver crucible and fuse with caustic 
soda, exhaust the smelt with boiling water acidulated with 
hydrochloric acid, and after filtration pass sulphuretted hydrogen 
into the solution. A yellow precipitate soluble in ammonium 
sulphide indicates the presence of tin, and the quantity may be 
estimated by collecting the precipitate in a small crucible and 
converting it into stannic oxide by the continued application 
of a gentle heat with free access of air, and weighing. 

Antimony. Beverages kept in bottles, the stoppers of 
which have rubber rings, should be examined for particles of 
rubber. For this purpose several bottles should be opened and 
the contents passed through a small filter paper. The deposit 
can then be examined with a magnifying glass and the pieces 
picked out, or the whole may, after washing, be boiled with a 
little concentrated nitric acid, evaporated to dryness, and the 
residue treated with a little hydrochloric and tartaric acid, and 
taken up in boiling water. The solution can then be examined 
by the zinc platinum test for the presence of antimony. 

If the presence of an appreciable quantity is indicated, the 
solution must be placed in a small flask, warmed, and a current 
of sulphuretted hydrogen passed through it until saturated. 
The flask should then be stoppered and kept for a few hours in 
a warm place, after which the excess of sulphuretted hydrogen 
is removed by a current of carbon dioxide, and the precipitate 
collected in a small tared asbestos filtering tube. It is then 
dried at a gentle heat in a slow current of carbon dioxide, after 
which the heat is carefully increased until the sulphide turns 
black and all free sulphur has volatilized. The tube is then 



368 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

allowed to cool, the carbon dioxide displaced by air, and the 
tube again weighed. The increase in weight corresponds to 
the amount of antimony sulphide in the material used. 

Smaller quantities may probably prove capable of determina- 
tion by Marsh's test, in the way described under arsenic. The 
antimony mirror is deposited nearer the flame than the arsenic 
mirror, and when heated in a current of sulphuretted hydrogen 
it is converted into the orange or black sulphide. If now 
dry hydrochloric acid is passed through the tube, chloride of 
antimony is formed and volatilizes. 

Our experiments in order to make this test quantitative 
proved very unsatisfactory, and the following method was 
adopted. A standard solution containing tartar emetic equi- 
valent to 0-1 nilgrn. of antimony in 1 c.c. was prepared, from 
which further dilutions were made as required. From 1 to 10 c.c. 
of these dilutions was acidulated with hydrochloric acid, placed 
in a platinum dish, a fragment of zinc added, and the deposit 
formed in the course of one or two hours compared with that 
derived from the same quantity of the fluid to be tested pre- 
pared as above described. The limit of the test appears to be 
about 0-1 mlgm. of antimony. Using 10 c.c. of liquid contain- 
ing O'Ol mlgm. per c.c., a decided stain was obtained, but with 
greater dilutions the results were negative, or the stain too faint 
to be recognizable with certainty. More concordant results 
were obtained by this method than by the Marsh-Berzelius pro- 
cess, and with very much less trouble and expenditure of time. 



CHAPTEK XXIX 

EXAMINATION OF FOOD AND DRINK FOR COAL-TAR COLOURS 

THE following simple tests have been found reliable in a recent 
investigation carried out by one of us. They are based on 
a method recommended by Sostegni and Carpentieri ' for the 
detection of acid dyes. The great majority of coal-tar dyes 
used for food colouring are ' acid,' very few ' basic ' colours 
being employed for this purpose. The basic colours are taken 
up by white grease-free wool upon boiling in a neutral or 
faintly alkaline solution, and the colour removed by the wool 
can be obtained in solution by treating the wool with a 5 per 
cent, solution of acetic acid. The acid colours are taken up 
by the wool from acid solutions, and can be recovered from 
the wool by treating the latter with a very dilute solution of 
ammonia. The double dyeing recommended below is necessary 
because certain vegetable colours, such as logwood and cochi- 
neal, are also capable of staining wool. These colours, how- 
ever, are not taken up from the wool when this is subsequently 
treated as directed. 

Make a clear solution or infusion of the substance to be 
examined and divide into two portions of 50 to 100 c.c. each. 
Render one faintly alkaline with ammonia and the other dis- 
tinctly acid with hydrochloric acid. Into each put about 
1 foot of white worsted which has previously been well boiled 
in distilled water rendered faintly alkaline with caustic soda, 
and afterwards washed to remove any trace of alkali. Place 
the flasks on a hot plate and keep the liquid at the boiling 
point for an hour, or less if the wool is distinctly dyed. The 
dyed wool is then removed, pressed between sheets of blotting- 
paper, and washed by boiling in two successive quantities 
(20 c.c.) of distilled water. 

1 Food Inspection and Analysis, Leach, p. 641. 

24 



370 

The wool from the acid solution is then boiled in about 
20 c.c. of dilute solution of ammonia (1 part of liq. ammon., sp. 
gr. 0*88, to 9 parts of water), whilst the wool from the alkaline 
solution is boiled in about the same quantity of 5 per cent, 
acetic acid. The wools are removed, and the alkaline fluid 
made acid by the addition of acetic acid, and the acid liquid 
made alkaline by the addition of ammonia. A fresh, grease- 
free piece of worsted, 2 or 3 inches in length, is now put into 
each tube, and both are placed in a water-bath for about half an 
hour, at the expiration of which time the wools can be removed, 
washed in distilled water, dried, and mounted for comparison 
with worsted similarly treated with known dyes. 

If an aniline dye were present in the original solution one 
of the samples will be brilliantly dyed. If the dye present 
were of a ' basic ' character, the wool originally inserted in 
the alkaline liquid will be dyed, whereas that in the acidified 
solution will be barely tinted. If, on the other hand, as is 
usually the case, the dye is of the acid type, the wool originally 
placed in the acidified solution will be the one most distinctly 
dyed. Such vegetable colouring matters as we have examined 
do not dye the short lengths of worsted, at the most giving 
them merely a dirty appearance. 

Assuming that it is wished to identify the dye, this may in 
many cases be done by comparing the wools as above sug- 
gested, or by applying tests to them or to the colouring matter 
removed, from the wool first used, by the action of an acid or 
an alkali. Allen's Tables l can be consulted with advantage 
for this purpose. 

Usually it suffices, when it has been ascertained that such 
a dye is present, to determine whether it contains arsenic or 
not. For this purpose the dye itself must be obtained and 
examined, or the article of food or drink submitted to the 
various tests for arsenic. In the latter case, however, the 
detection of the poison would in most cases be far from con- 
clusive proof that it was introduced with the dye. 

1 Commercial Organic Analysis, vol. iii. part i. 



CHAPTER XXX 

DECEPTIVE APPEAEANCES 

FOAM AND FACING 

A RECENT article in the ' Lancet,' l entitled ' Fraudulent Foam,' 
has directed attention to the fact that many beverages are 
made more attractive by the addition thereto of preparations 
which readily produce a foam upon the surface of the liquid, 
and it is argued that ' the practice of making things not what 
they seem is fraud, and nothing but fraud ; and even if perfectly 
innocuous substances are used for the same purpose, the 
intention is obviously again to deceive and to produce a 
wretched imitation of the genuine article.' No doubt foaming 
preparations may be used in beers and such like liquids to 
conceal staleness, and give an appearance of freshness and 
palatableness, but they are often used merely to give per- 
manence to an otherwise evanescent effervescence, and to pro- 
duce a more pleasing appearance. For this purpose gelatinous 
preparations, gums, and infusions and tinctures of quillaia 
bark have been used for a long series of years. These are 
added to syrups for mixing with aerated waters, and without 
any idea of fraud. The quillaia bark owes its property of 
producing a froth to the presence of a glucoside, saponin, 
which undoubtedly is a poison if taken in quantity, paralyzing 
the respiratory and vaso-rnotor centres. It has been recently 
recommended as an expectorant, in doses of 1^ to 3 grains in 
the form of tincture. An exceedingly small quantity is re- 
quired to produce the surface tension requisite for frothing, 
and it is exceedingly doubtful whether in the proportion used 

1 February 3, 1906. 



372 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

it can do any possible harm. The writer in ' The Lancet,' 
however, urges that ' though the effect of small doses may be 
inappreciable, yet the presence of a poison in beverages in any 
quantity at all is highly objectionable.' There are many 
substances which, when taken in quantities, are injurious to 
the system, which may therefore be regarded as poisons, which 
are perfectly harmless when taken in smaller proportions, and 
although saponin preparations have been used for forty years 
and upwards in the preparation of beverages no suspicion has 
ever arisen of their producing any evil effects. 

Saponin is now a generic name for a series of glucosides, 
or mixtures of glucosides, and other substances, obtainable from 
quillaia bark, root of the common pink, sarsaparilla root, &c. 
Kruskai in 1891 enumerated 150 varieties of saponin, and 
Kobert l has shown that these are all mixtures consisting of at 
least four organic substances, together with traces of inorganic 
bodies. The crude saponin from quillaia bark contains an 
acid, quillaic acid, which is slightly toxic ; sapotoxin, an 
acrid and very poisonous principle ; lactoxin, an inert carbo- 
hydrate; and saponin (C 13 H 30 10 ), which in a pure state is also 
inert. Crude saponins from different sources with the same 
general formula have different chemical characteristics, and 
differ in their degree of toxicity. They are soluble in water, 
slightly soluble in alcohol, and insoluble in ether, chloroform, 
and benzol. When a solution of saponin is injected into the 
blood stream the red-blood corpuscles are dissolved, but when 
administered per os they are much less poisonous, being 
difficult of absorption in the intestinal canal. They therefore 
do not act as blood poisons when swallowed. 2 According to 
Mitchel Bruce, 3 saponin is probably excreted in part by the 
skin and kidneys, both of which it stimulates, increasing the 
volume of urine and the most important solid constituents. 
Exceedingly small quantities may produce fatal effects in 

1 Tear Book of Pharmacy, 1886, p. 82. 

2 Mann, Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, p. 414. 

3 Bruce, Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 



DECEPTIVE APPEARANCES 373 

animals if introduced subcutaneously, but as much as 
2 grammes per kilogram of weight of the most toxic con- 
stituent is required to kill a dog when administered with food. 
The saponins of commerce are very variable in composition, 
and though capable of causing, in large doses, catarrh of the 
mucous membrane, it is very doubtful whether they come 
within the category of ' poisons.' One ounce of a 5 per cent, 
tincture or infusion of quillaia bark is generally added to a 
gallon of syrup, and about 2 ounces of this is added to 8 ounces 
of aerated water for making temperance beverages. Such a 
beverage would therefore contain about 1 part of quillaia bark 
in 15,000, or 1 of crude saponin in 1,500,000, an amount which 
it is difficult to conceive can have any deleterious effect even 
if such a liquid is imbibed largely and frequently. Notwith- 
standing this the use of saponin appears to have been interdicted 
in Austria. 

The detection of these minute quantities of saponin in 
liquids such as beer and saccharine beverages would be a very 
difficult matter. After neutralizing, a large excess of barium 
hydrate should be added, and the precipitated barium compound 
collected, washed with a little water, and decomposed by a 
current of carbonic acid gas. If the filtered liquid easily froths, 
saponin is probably present. The solution may be evaporated 
to dryness and exhausted with boiling alcohol, sp. gr. 853, the 
alcohol filtered off, and the residue examined. It should be 
acrid in taste, produce froth when shaken with water, and be 
precipitated from its alcoholic solution by the addition of excess 
of benzol or ether. 

Another type of deceptive appearance is that of the ' facing ! 
of rice. 1 By attrition, suitably applied, the surface of the rice 
grains is made smooth and shining, the appearance being thus 
improved. To this method there can be no objection, but it is 
now becoming common to introduce oil, paraffin, French chalk, 
and possibly other substances, during the attrition, apparently 
with the view of making inferior samples more closely resemble 

1 Lancet, February 10, 1906. 



374 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

rice of a superior quality. Messrs. Cribb & Richards, 1 who 
have recently examined a number of such samples, state ' that 
the proportion of foreign matter present in some cases is quite 
sufficient to constitute a fraud, inappreciable perhaps to the 
individual purchaser, but ample to give an unscrupulous vendor 
an advantage over his more honest rival.' They suggest also 
the possibility of the insoluble substance, chiefly used, being 
injurious to health, as it may possibly set up mechanical 
irritation in the intestines, or lead to the formation of faecal 
concretions. This is a somewhat far-fetched theory, if the 
material used is talc or French chalk, especially with the 
infinitesimal amount left adherent to the rice. It is possible, 
however, that more objectionable substances may be used. In 
all cases Cribb & Richards found that by washing the rice with 
distilled water the liquid became opalescent, and that the 
insoluble matter was not taken up by hydrochloric acid, and 
that it contained magnesia and silica. In normal rice the ash 
is nearly always under -5 per cent, and contains only a trace of 
matter insoluble in hydrochloric acid, and the magnesia as 
MgO forms only from 9 to 11 per cent, of the total ash. In 
the faced rice the insoluble ash almost invariably formed 
40 per cent, of the total ash, and consisted mainly of magnesia 
and silica. 

Facing with paraffin or other fat would be detected by 
washing the rice with petroleum ether, distilling off the ether 
and examining the residue. 

When such faced rice is washed before being used, as all 
rice should be, no possible harm can result from the facing. 
The process doubtless enables an inferior article to be classed 
as a superior one, and to this extent is fraudulent, but from 
the public health point of view the matter is scarcely one of 
importance so long as the ' facing ' is done with comparatively 
harmless substances. 

1 The Analyst, February 1906. 



CHAPTEB XXXI 

LEGAL CASES 

I. THE USE OF PEESEEVATIVES 

PERSECUTIONS with reference to the presence of preservatives 
and colouring matters may be taken under section 3 or 6 of 
the Food and Drugs Act, 1875. These sections are as under : 
' Section 3. No article of food intended for sale shall be 
mixed, stained or coloured, or powdered, so as to render 
it injurious to health.' 

' Section 6. No person shall sell to the prejudice of the 

purchaser any article of food or any drug which is not 

of the nature, substance, and quality of the article 

demanded by such purchaser. 

'Under this section no offence shall be deemed to be 

committed 

' Where any matter or ingredient not injurious to health 
has been added to the food or drug because it is required 
for the production or preparation thereof, as an article 
of commerce in a state fit for carriage or consumption, 
and not fraudulently to increase the bulk, weight or 
measure of the food or drug, or to conceal the inferior 
quality thereof.' 

It has generally been assumed that only a duly authorized 
inspector could take samples of foods or drugs for analysis and 
institute proceedings, but in a recent case in the High Court 
(Worthington v. Kyme, August 1905) the Lord Chief Justice 
ruled that a medical officer of health, an inspector of nuisances, 
inspectors of weights and measures, and other people are entitled 
to take samples and to have them analyzed, and the people who 



376 PRESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

may take samples may take proceedings when the result of 
the analysis is ascertained. Of course the purchaser would 
have to observe all the legal requirements with reference to 
the division of the sample, delivery to the analyst, &c. 

If action is taken under Section 3 it is necessary for the 
plaintiffs to prove that the preservative or colouring matter 
present is injurious to health. This is so exceedingly difficult 
a matter that prosecutions are now more frequently taken 
under Section 6, the preserved or coloured article being held 
to be not of the nature, substance or quality demanded by the 
purchaser, and leaving the defendants to disprove this, or to 
prove that the preservative or colouring matter is not injurious 
to health, or that it is a necessary addition to produce an article 
of commerce. 

These prosecutions arise in the Police Courts, with the right 
of appeal to Court of Quarter Sessions ; but the decisions have 
no binding effect on other Courts, and the conflicting decisions 
given emphasize the necessity for some modification of the 
law, and for the formation of some ' Court of Reference ' having 
power to regulate the practices of trade throughout the country. 
As the law now stands, there is no right of appeal to the High 
Court save on points of law, and as the decisions with reference 
to the use of preservatives and colouring matters are almost 
always on questions of fact, no appeal is usually possible. Com- 
mittees upon the administration of the Food and Drugs Acts 
have repeatedly recommended the appointment of a Standing 
Committee of Eeference, with powers to fix standards, &c., but 
no steps in this direction have been taken by the legislature. 
An alternative scheme would be for Parliament to give power 
to Justices to refer to the High Court at the request of either 
party concerned, debatable questions of importance, such as 
those affecting the whole of the members of a particular trade. 

The present position is admittedly unsatisfactory both from 
the commercial and administrative point of view. 

The subjoined brief account of prosecutions under the 
Sale of Food and Drugs Acts for the use of preservatives will 



LEGAL CASES 377 

probably be of interest, and may prove of value in other cases 
of a similar character. 

Boric Acid. 1. Margarine containing 51 grains of boric 
acid per pound. Conviction upheld upon appeal to Court of 
Quarter Sessions. Boadle v. Stewart. 

This case was first heard before the Liverpool Stipendiary 
Magistrate on May 30, 1900. For the prosecution Professor 
Boyce gave evidence as to the non-necessity of a preservative, 
which might be used to mask the ranciditj^ of the fat. The 
same proportion of boric acid when administered in milk to 
kittens produced violent diarrho3a and emaciation. The Public 
Analyst stated that margarine was usually free from pre- 
servatives. 

For the defence medical evidence was given to the effect 
that boric acid in small closes was not injurious to health. 

The defendants were convicted and fined 50Z. and 51. 5s. 
costs. Notice of appeal was given. 

The appeal to Quarter Sessions was heard by the Recorder 
on July 20, 1900. Medical evidence was produced for both 
sides. The appeal was dismissed, the Eecorder stating that 
from the evidence he was satisfied that boric acid was a drug 
which, in the hands of competent and skilled men, was capable 
of being administered for the good of mankind, but that he 
could not agree that, put indiscriminately into any articles of 
food, it was a matter or ingredient not injurious to health. 
As to whether the boric acid were or were not necessary, he 
held on the evidence that it was not required in the production 
or preparation of the margarine. 

2. Butter containing 25 grains of boric acid per pound. 
Conviction quashed by Court of Quarter Sessions. 

The case was first heard before the Folkestone Bench on 
August 15, 1901. Evidence for the prosecution as to the 
injurious qualities of boric acid was given by the Medical 
Officer of Health, who also stated that preservatives were 
unnecessary for butter. He was supported by another medical 
man. 



378 PBESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Medical evidence was also given for the defence. The 
amount of boric acid was returned as 25 grains per pound. 
The defendant was convicted. 

The appeal to Quarter Sessions was heard on October 23, 
1901. 

The Medical Officer of Health stated that boric acid was liable 
to cause illness, and that the effects would continue day by day. 
He had met with cases of intestinal disturbance at the time of 
year when preservatives were mostly used, and where he knew 
they had been added. At a religious institution in Dover five of 
the inmates were taken seriously ill with symptoms of poisoning, 
and he found that glacialme had been added to the milk. He 
made blancmange of the milk and gave it to fowls ; some of 
these died, and borax was found in the gizzards and stomachs. 
Cold storage was quite sufficient, without the use of preserva- 
tives. On cross-examination as to the use of salt as a pre- 
servative he pointed out that salt was a normal constituent of 
the body, whereas borax was not. He was cross-examined on 
the experiments of Liebreich, Chittenden, and Tunnicliffe and 
Kosenheim, and it was suggested that the fowls mentioned 
above had died of ptomaine-poisoning. Drs. Tunnicliffe, Luff, 
Thresh, Bell, and others had been retained for the defence, but 
were not called upon for evidence. The conviction by the 
Magistrates was quashed. 

3. Butter containing 84 grains of boric acid per pound. 
Birmingham, May 1899. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. Food and Drugs Act. Convicted. 

4. Butter containing 63 grains of boric acid per pound. 
Birmingham, May 1899. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. Convicted. 

5. Butter containing 84 grains boric acid per pound. 
Oxford, February 1900. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. Convicted. 

6. Butter containing 63 grains boric acid per pound. 
Birmingham, April 1901. Police Court Proceedings under 
section 6. Convicted. 



LEGAL CASES 379 

7. Butter containing 64 grains boric acid per pound. 
Southwark, April 1901. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. Convicted. 

8. Butter containing 68 grains boric acid per pound. 
Hey wood, September 1901. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. Convicted. 

9. Butter containing 54 grains boric acid per pound. 
Birmingbam, November 1901. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. 

Tbe Medical Officer of Healtb gave evidence for tbe prosecu- 
tion, alleging the injurious effect of boric acid, and stated that he 
did not prosecute unless the amount exceeded 23 grains per 
pound. For the defence the Folkestone case was quoted (2). 
The Bench considered that an excessive amount had been used, 
and convicted. 

10. Butter containing 120 grains boric acid per pound. 
Bootle, November 1902. Police Court proceedings under 
section 6. Convicted. 

11. Butter containing 70 grains boric acid per pound. 
Worship Street, London, February 1904. Police Court pro- 
ceedings under section 6. Convicted. 

12. Butter containing 55'3 grains boric acid per pound. 
Bamber Bridge, December 1904. Police Court proceedings, 
under section 6. 

Evidence for the prosecution was given by the Medical 
Officer of Health for the Lancashire County Council. He 
pointed out that the Departmental Committee recommended a 
maximum quantity of 35 grains per pound, and he held that 
any further amount was unnecessary and undesirable. He 
could not say that the amount present would be injurious 
to health, or that it had been added for the purpose of increas- 
ing the weight or making a larger profit. For the defence 
it was contended that on the evidence there was no case, and 
that the recommendations of the Departmental Committee 
had not become law. The Bench held that the purchaser had 
not obtained what he asked for, and convicted. 



380 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

13. Clotted cream containing 464 per cent, of boric acid 
(32^ grains per pound). Westminster, November 1899. Police 
Court proceedings under section 6. Whipps v. Hudson Bros. 
For the prosecution, after the Public Analyst's evidence, Mr. 
Droop Richmond, chemist to the Aylesbury Dairy Co., stated 
that his Company were able to dispense with the use of 
preservatives. Professor Corfield said that the quantity of 
boric acid present was sufficient to cause injury to health, that 
clotted cream was given to children, and that the half-pound 
jar contained 16 grains, the maximum dose of an adult. This 
evidence was supported by Dr. Hill (Medical Officer of Health 
for Birmingham), Dr. F. I. Allan (Medical Officer of Health 
for Westminster), and others. For the defence Drs. Gibb, 
Pattison, Marsh, Bryden, and Bond were called, and also 
Professor Attfield, F.E.S., Mr. Stokes, F.I.C., and Mr. Lloyd, 
F.I.C. The Bench, however, convicted. 

Since 1900, apparently every prosecution with one exception 
for the use of boric acid in milk has been successful, convictions 
being obtained. Only one appeal appears to have been made 
to the Court of Quarter Sessions, and in this instance the 
appeal failed, though the penalty was reduced. The amounts 
of acid added varied from 4'8 grains to 24 grains per pint. 

Under the circumstances one or two cases only need be 
referred to. 

14. Milk containing 7 grains of boric acid per pint. 
Southwark, October 1902. Police Court proceedings. Con- 
victed. 

An appeal was heard at the Newington Quarter Sessions. 
For the prosecution the recommendations of the Departmental 
Committee were quoted, and the Medical Officer of Health, 
the Public Analyst, and Professor Halliburton gave evidence as 
to the danger to be apprehended from the use of boric acid in 
milk. The Public Analyst for Paddington gave evidence for 
the defence. The conviction w r as affirmed, with a somewhat 
reduced penalty. 

15. Milk containing 62-4 grains boric acid per gallon. 



LEGAL CASES 381 

Maidstone, September 1903. Police Court proceedings. Con- 
victed. 

Dr. Thresh for the prosecution said : ' He had never con- 
demned the use of preservatives in toto, as he believed that in 
many cases they might be used with advantage both to the pro- 
ducer and consumer, and he regarded boric acid as one of the most 
generally useful and least harmful of all chemical preservatives. 

' On the other hand he had strong objections to preserva- 
tives being used where such were unnecessary, and in articles 
of food likely to be used by the very young, especially infants, 
as was the case with milk. 

' By the use of boracic acid, uncleanly milk, which more 
rapidly decomposes than "clean" milk, could be more easily 
foisted on the public. One day's milk could be kept over and 
sold the next day as fresh milk, and the public be imposed 
upon. Such being the case, carelessness in the cowshed, in 
the milking, in the scalding and cleansing of cans was fos- 
tered. Filth microbes remain undetected in the milk and 
might deleteriously affect persons, especially young children, 
consuming it. 

' The object of recent legislation, of bylaws adopted in 
nearly all districts, of the efforts of all Medical Officers of 
Health and Sanitary Inspectors, was to ensure clean cowsheds, 
clean milk, and clean vessels to contain it. Evidences of 
carelessness, and uncleanliness were concealed by the use of 
preservatives, and for this reason he very strongly objected to 
their use. 

' Milk, properly collected, stored, and refrigerated, can always 
be delivered to the consumers in a satisfactory condition. 
Boric acid does not kill the organisms in milk, it merely retards 
the growth of certain of them for a time. Others it does not 
even retard in the quantity generally used. Organisms derived 
from sewage and manure grow rapidly in milk, and rapidly 
turn it sour, and may, under certain circumstances, produce 
poisonous compounds. If a milk turns sour before there is 
time to deliver it, it is an indication that it is not safe to use, 



382 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

especially for infants, in whom it would cause indigestion and 
diarrhoea. The use of boric acid conceals this defect and 
does not remedy it, as the change continues when the milk is 
taken into the system, the harmful bacteria not being de- 
stroyed. 

* The action of boric acid on digestion has been carefully 
studied, and it has been asserted that where an animal has not 
developed its full digestive powers boric acid is practically a 
slow poison, preventing digestion, causing diarrhoea, emaciation 
and death. So very many infants die with such symptoms 
that it was, in his opinion, criminal to give them a milk believed 
to produce similar symptoms in animals.' 

16. (a.) Milk containing 13 grains boric acid per pint. 
Wakefield, August 1904. Police Court proceedings. Convicted. 

The Public Analyst, for the prosecution, pointed out that 
whilst boric acid prevented certain forms of decomposition, 
other forms proceeded unchecked. An infant taking one- 
pint of this milk per day would receive almost the maximum 
dose. 

(&.) Milk containing 4'8 grains of boric acid per pint. Wake- 
field, October 1905. Police Court proceedings. Case dismissed. 

Dr. Kaye, Medical Officer of Health for the West 
Riding County Council, gave evidence for the prosecution. 
Dr. Bradshaw, of Liverpool, for the defence, stated that since 
the use of preservatives in milk had been discontinued the 
infantile death-rate in Liverpool, mainly due to diarrhoea, had 
largely increased. The Bench dismissed the case on the 
grounds that it was not proved to their satisfaction that 
the amount of boric acid present in the milk was injurious to- 
health. 

17. Butter containing 68 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Heywood, October 1, 1901. Convicted, fined 1Z. 

18. Shrimps containing 61 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Liverpool, January 18, 1902. Convicted, fined 10s. 

19. Shrimps containing 46 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Ormskirk, July 15, 1902. Convicted, fined 51. 



LEGAL CASES 383 

20. Shrimps containing 45 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Rochdale, September 26, 1902. Dismissed on technical objec- 
tion. 

21. Shrimps containing 40 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Wigan, October 1902. Dismissed on technical objection. 

22. Butter containing 120 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Bootle, November 1902. Convicted, fined 40s. 

23. Sausages containing 85 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Bournemouth, October 3, 1903. Convicted, fined 30s. 

24. Butter containing 76'3 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
West London Police Court, November 14, 1903. Summons 
dismissed. 

25. Butter containing 70 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Worship Street Police Court, February 20, 1904. Convicted, 
fined 40s. 

26. Butter containing 1-4 per cent, boracic acid. Birming- 
ham, October 13, 1904. Dismissed on warranty. 

27. Sausages containing 30 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
South Western Police Court, October 22, 1904. Convicted, 
fined 20s. 

28. Sausages containing 60 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
In this case Dr. Brash, the Medical Officer of Health for the 
City, deposed that boracic acid was not a proper preservative 
to be used in any food. Exeter, January 21, 1905. Convicted, 
fined 5s. 

29. Butter containing 94 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Worship Street Police Court, February 11, 1905. Dismissed. 

30. Margarine containing 0'7 per cent, boracic acid. Liver- 
pool, June 10, 1905. Convicted, fined II. 

31. Butter containing 53-9 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Widnes, July 1905. Dismissed. 

32. Butter containing 1 per cent, boracic acid. Mistley, 
August 20, 1905. Convicted, fined 10s. 

33. Potted shrimps containing boracic acid. Blackpool, 
October 21, 1905. Convicted, fined 10s. 

34. Butter containing 60 grains of boracic acid per pound. 



384 PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 

Worship Street Police Court, October 2, 1905. Convicted, 
fined 31. 

35. Sausages containing 41 grains of boracic acid per pound. 
Worship Street Police Court, December 19, 1905. Convicted, 
fined 20s., but case stated for opinion of High Court. 

36. Potted shrimps containing 47 grains of boric acid per 
pound. Leeds, October 1902. Police Court proceedings. Case 
dismissed. 

The chief witness for the prosecution was the Medical 
Officer of Health, who pointed out that boric acid was not 
a normal constituent of the body, and that it was liable to 
produce deleterious effects when administered internally. 
Witnesses w r ere also called to prove that shrimps could be 
potted without the use of preservatives, and would keep for a 
reasonable length of time. For the defence the dealer stated 
that preservatives were absolutely necessary if the shrimps 
were to be kept more than a few days, and a medical witness 
expressed the opinion that the quantity of boric acid present 
was quite harmless. The Stipendiary Magistrate was assisted 
in his decision by the fact that the Departmental Committee 
recommended limitations in the use of boric acid only in the 
cases of milk, cream, butter, margarine, and invalid preparations. 

Formalin. In all the cases, with one exception, in which 
dealers have been prosecuted for the use of formalin in milk, 
convictions seem to have been obtained, and no appeal has 
been attempted. 

37. Milk. Formalin present, quantity not stated. Liver- 
pool, March 1900. Convicted. 

38. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 50,000. Manchester, 
June 1901. Convicted. 

For the prosecution the Public Analyst stated that formalin 
rendered milk less digestible, that by its use it was possible to 
sell stale milk as fresh, and that even 1 part in 100,000 would 
be injurious to children. Professor Boyce stated that he had 
fed kittens with milk containing 1 in 50,000 of formalin, that 
they lost weight, suffered from diarrhoea, and died ; that 



LEGAL CASES 385 

formalin introduced into the stomach neutralized the gastric 
juice, and also injured the cells of the mucous membrane. 

For the defence Dr. Rideal, in evidence, said that it was 
entirely a matter of quantity present; that the digestion of 
milk containing 1 part of formalin per 100,000 was only 
retarded as compared with pure milk in the proportion of 
forty-five to forty-four minutes. The Stipendiary, in giving 
judgment, said it had been proved to his satisfaction that 
formalin was so volatile that it was impossible to ascertain 
accurately the amount which had been added to the milk, but 
that on the evidence there was at least 1 part in 50,000. He 
considered it impossible to contend that formalin was not 
injurious to health. 

39. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 100,000. Lancashire 
County Police Court, January 1902. Convicted. 

40. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 200,000. Leigh, September 
1902. Convicted. 

41. Milk. Formalin present,! in 100,000. Lambeth, October 
1902. Convicted. 

42. Milk. Formalin present,! in 100,000. Lambeth, October 
1902. Convicted. 

43. Milk. Formalin present,! in 100,000. Barrow, November 
1902. Dismissed. 

In this case the defendant stated that formalin had been 
used for cleansing the cans, and had not been added to the milk. 
The Bench apparently accepted this statement, saying that the 
formalin had been used innocently. 

44. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 100,000. Salford, October 

1902. Convicted. 

45. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 25,000. Widnes, November 

1903. Convicted. 

46. Milk. Formalin present, quantity not stated. Ashton, 
October 1903. Convicted. 

The defence in this case was that the preservative used was 
sold as ' concentrated essence of limes.' 

25 



386 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

47. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 100,000. Birmingham, 
January 1904. Convicted. 

48. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 100,000. Birmingham, 
January 1904. Convicted. 

49. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 20,000. Greenwich, August 
1904. Convicted. 

50. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 33,000. Greenwich, August 
1904. Convicted. 

51. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 25,000. Harleston, 
September 1904. Convicted. 

The defendant pleaded that he had been asked by his 
customers to add a little formalin, and that he was unaware 
that it was injurious. 

52. Milk. Formalin present, 1 in 100,000. Greenwich, 
September 1904. Convicted. 

For the prosecution, the Medical Officer of Health for 
Lewisham stated that after taking daily a pint of milk con- 
taining 1 part of formalin in 100,000 for ten days, he felt a 
considerable amount of discomfort and nausea. He considered 
it must be deleterious, especially to young and delicate children. 
It was not possible to estimate the whole of the formalin that 
had been added to milk. He was supported by the medical 
superintendent to the Lewisham Infirmary, who said that 
formalin was an irritant poison. He had made experiments 
and found that he could tolerate formalin up to 1 part in 
10,000, after which it made him sick. There was no doubt that 
even 1 part in 100,000 hindered digestion and was injurious. 

For the defence Dr. Eideal said he had considerable ex- 
perience of preservatives and had never known formalin to 
be injurious to health, though he had given it to his own 
children, and to kittens and other animals. There was no 
evidence that 1 part in 100,000 was harmful ; he had given 
his son twenty times this amount. He had made experiments 
with fish, and a goldfish throve in water containing 1 part of 
formalin in 40,000. One part in 5,000 did not affect the heart 
of a frog. 



LEGAL CASES 387 

53. Milk. Formalin present, 0*00125 per cent. Lambeth, 
November 1904. Convicted. 

54. Milk. Formalin present, 0-00075 per cent. Lambeth, 
November 1904. Convicted. 

55. Milk. Formalin present, 0-0016 per cent. Southwark, 
November 1904. Convicted. 

56. Milk. Formalin present, 0-001 per cent. Woolwich, 
November 1904. Convicted. 

Salicylic Acid. The decisions given with reference to the 
use of this acid present no uniformity, though many convictions 
have been obtained. No case appears to have gone up to the 
High Courts, but in some instances the convictions of the 
Police Courts have not been upheld on appeal to the Court of 
Quarter Sessions. 

57. Ginger wine containing 13 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Liverpool, October 1900. Police Court proceedings. 
Dismissed. 

For the prosecution Professor Boyce stated that he had 
fed kittens four weeks old with milk containing a small quantity 
of salicylic acid ; the effects had been most injurious. Salicylic 
acid was unnecessary and harmful. The Public Analyst stated 
that salicylic acid was a foreign ingredient to ginger wine. 
Out of thirty-three samples analyzed the greatest quantity he 
had ever found was 4 grains per pint. 

For the defence two medical men considered that the 
quantity of salicylic acid which would be consumed in the 
ginger wine wmild be harmless. 

A member of the firm stated that when the wine was made 
from ginger, and not from an essence, a preservative was 
essential. 

58. Ginger wine containing 13 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Liverpool, February 1901. Police Court proceedings. 
Dismissed. 

59. Ginger wine containing 9 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Leyland, April 1902. Police Court proceedings. Con- 
victed. 



388 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

60. Raisin wine containing 8'5 grains salicylic acid per 
pint, 

61. Cherry brandy containing 6'0 grains salicylic acid per 
pint, 

62. Orange wine containing 8*5 grains salicylic acid per 
pint. Chorley, June 1902. Police Court proceedings. All 
convicted. 

63. Orange wine containing 15 grains salicylic acid per 
pint. Wiltshire County Sessions, August 1902. Convicted. 

64. Orange wine containing 7*1 grains salicylic acid per 
pint. Chester, January 1903. Convicted. 

65. Orange wine containing 10 grains salicylic acid per 
pint. Pontypridd, July 1903. Convicted. 

66. Elderberry cordial containing 5 grains salicylic acid per 
pint. Bury, October 1903. Convicted. 

67. Ginger wine containing 7 - 2 grains salicylic acid per 
pint. Coagh, May 1904. Dismissed. 

The only evidence for the prosecution was the Analyst's 
certificate. For the defence witnesses were called who testified 
as to the harmlessness of salicylic acid in the proportion 
present in the samples. 

68. Ginger wine containing 7 '2 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Belfast Petty Sessions ; appeal before the Recorder, 
September 1904. Conviction upheld. 

The case was first heard at the Belfast Petty Sessions, 
when the defendant was convicted under section 6 and fined 
20s. It was contended that as ginger wine had been known for 
a century or more, and as salicylic acid was a comparatively 
recently discovered drug, its use could not be essential in the 
making of ginger wine, that the larger manufacturers did not 
use it, and that it was injurious. For the defence it was 
alleged that either a preservative or alcohol was required to 
prevent fermentation, and that the amount of salicylic acid 
used was too small to be harmful. 

The appeal was heard before the Recorder of Belfast on 
September 23, 1904. 



LEGAL CASES 389 

The City Analyst proved that the wine contained 7*2 grains 
of salicylic acid per pint and 12-2 per cent, of alcohol, and 
stated that the latter was sufficient to preserve the wine from 
fermentation. 

Dr. O'Neill stated that he had been practising medicine for 
twenty-seven years, and before that had had practical experience 
in the making of ginger wine. He read formulae for its prepara- 
tion in Muspratt's ' Dictionary of Chemistry,' 1860, and also in 
the ' Chemist and Druggist ' of 1890. Ginger wine contained 
from 5 to 12 per cent, of alcohol produced by fermentation in 
the course of manufacture, and this was sufficient to preserve 
it. Salicylic acid was a dangerous drug, especially dangerous 
when given in any quantity to persons suffering from inflamma- 
tion of the heart, liver, or kidneys. Dr. Stanley B. Coates 
and Dr. Torrens supported Dr. O'Xeill's evidence. 

For the appellants, Mr. Charles Huxtable, pharmaceutical 
and analytical chemist, stated that he had had experience in 
the manufacture of ginger wine for four years, and that the 
addition of a preservative was essential. Salicylic acid to the 
extent of 7-2 grains per pint would be harmless, and less than 
this quantity would be ineffectual. Ginger wine might con- 
tain 16 to 20 per cent, of proof spirit, but this would be 
insufficient to prevent fermentation. When cross-examined on 
the experiments quoted in the Report of the Departmental 
Committee as to the effects of salicylic acid on the digestive 
ferments, it was stated that he had carried out experiments 
on the point, and found that there was no retardation in- 
duced by salicylic acid when present up to 10 grains per pint. 

Sir William Whitla, Professor of Materia Medica, Queen's 
College, Belfast, said the pharmacoposial dose of salicylic acid 
was 5 to 20 grains, but it was not unusual to give as 
much as 120 grains in the day. Anyone taking 120 grains of 
salicylic acid through the wine would have to consume also 
half a stone of sugar ; he did not think there was a particle 
of evidence to show that it did harm in small doses. He 
believed the statements continually made in books about 



390 PBESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

salicylic acid and its effects upon the heart and kidneys arose 
at the time when it was impossible to get the drug pure, and 
that the injurious effects were due to the impurities. With 
the present methods of purification the cardiac depression 
was not found even when enormous doses were given. He 
thought salicylic acid was preferable to alcohol as a preserva- 
tive. It was, he believed, being introduced into beer and light 
wines, but if a man took a couple of bottles of beer, a bottle of 
cider, and a bottle of claret, he would absorb only 30 grains of 
salicylic acid, and it would do him less harm than the alcohol. 

Dr. A. Montgomery gave supporting evidence. 

The Eecorder, in giving his decision, said that the question 
resolved itself into whether the drug was necessary or whether 
there was any doubt as to its being injurious, because if 
unnecessary it should not be introduced, and if injurious it 
should not be introduced. Ginger wine had existed long 
before the drug was introduced into it. Was the wine better 
than it used to be ? Having been existent so long without the 
drug he could not see how the drug was necessary, and if not 
required, it appeared to him that it ought not to be introduced 
into the wine. The decision of the Magistrates was therefore 
confirmed, and the appeal dismissed. 

69. Lime-juice cordial containing 8 grains of salicylic acid 
per pint. Southwark, October 1903. Dismissed. 

The Medical Officer of Health, in evidence, stated that 
salicylic acid was a drug which, under certain circumstances, 
produced injurious effects, and that as present in the sample it 
was prejudicial to health. In previous years some 85 per cent, 
of temperance drinks contained preservatives, but the latter 
were not so extensively used now. 

Dr. Tebb gave his opinion as to the injurious effects of 
salicylic acid in persons suffering from heart disease and 
kidney complaints. Any beverage containing a preservative 
should be labelled to that effect. The conclusions of the 
Departmental Committee were quoted. 

For the defence, the manager of the firm stated that sali- 



LEGAL CASES 391 

cylic acid had been used by the trade for twenty years, and 
that it was necessary to prevent the bursting of the bottles. 
He believed that nineteen out of twenty manufacturers used 
it. In spite of the recommendations of the Committee he 
thought salicylic acid was necessary for lime juice, and 1 grain 
per pint was insufficient. Their consulting chemist stated that 
out of eighteen samples examined, seventeen contained salicylic 
acid in proportions varying from 1^ to 12 grains per pint. 

Further evidence was given by Mr. Bannister, Dr. Luff, 
and Dr. Thresh. The last-named considered that the natural 
citric acid of the fruit might become more harmful than the 
salicylic acid, and would be more injurious to the kidneys. No 
evil effect- had ever been traced to the use of the preservative. 

Dr. Abbott Anderson stated that the mischief alleged to be 
due to salicylic acid was due to impurities, but that it could 
now be procured in a pure state. 

In his decision, the Magistrate stated that the onus of 
proving the injurious effects of salicylic acid used in the 
proportions present lay on the prosecutors, and this they had 
failed to do, relying almost entirely on theoretical evidence 
and the findings of the Departmental Committee. These 
grounds were not conclusive, or even satisfactory, to him for 
forming a judgment. Neither of the witnesses for the prose- 
cution had made a special study of the effects of salicylic 
acid, whilst for the defence several witnesses had given evi- 
dence in its favour. He had no evidence as to the kind of 
persons who habitually used the beverage except that they 
were generally teetotalers or children. He himself was pre- 
pared to accept the statement of Dr. Thresh that ' the general 
experience is that salicylic acid in food has been used by 
hundreds and thousands of persons day by day, and no one has 
ever reported an authenticated case of any sign of danger from 
it.' The information was therefore dismissed without costs. 

70. Jam containing 1'7 grains salicylic acid per pound. 
Llanrwst, November 1899. Police Court proceedings. Case 
dismissed. 



392 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

71. Jam containing 2*6 grains salicylic acid per pound. 
Stockport, August 1903. Police Court proceedings. Con- 
viction upheld at Quarter Sessions. 

On August 25. 1903, the defendant was convicted at the 
Stockport Police Court. 

The appeal was heard in October 1903, before the Cheshire 
Quarter Sessions at Knutsford. 

The chief witness for the prosecution was Dr. Delepine, 
who stated that a preservative was not necessary in jam 
making if the fruit were in good condition ; it was only when 
the fruit was too moist that jam would not keep without a 
preservative. Salicylic acid was a powerful poison, and the 
continuous taking of minute doses would be injurious to 
children and weakly persons. 

For the defence, the manufacturer, Mr. J. Greenhalgh, 
Eeddish, stated that they had been using salicylic acid in jam 
making for twenty-five years ; it was not used to conceal the 
inferior quality of the fruit, but to prevent mould and mildew 
and to check fermentation. It would be very difficult to 
manufacture jam without it, and bad fruit could not be made 
into good jam by the use of a preservative. 

Similar evidence was given by other manufacturers, who, 
however, admitted that since the issue of the Eeport of the 
Departmental Committee, they had reduced the quantity of 
salicylic acid to 2 grains or less per pound. 

Medical witnesses and analytical chemists gave evidence 
as to the harmlessness of the small quantity of preservative 
present in the sample of jam in question. 

The Bench upheld the conviction ; they did not consider 
that the jam was of the nature, substance, and quality demanded 
in that it contained salicylic acid. They were influenced by 
the fact that jam forms a staple article of diet among children 
in working-class districts, and they could not help thinking that 
even in minute doses, repeated, the drug would be injurious. 
In view of the Eeport of the Departmental Committee they 
considered that more than 1 grain per pound would be unsafe. 



LEGAL CASES 393 

72. Jam containing 2'25 grains of salicylic acid per pound. 
Guisborough, October 1903. Police Court proceedings. Case 
dismissed. 

For the defence the manufacturer stated that the use of 
salicylic acid had been the custom of the trade for twenty- 
five years, and that 2 grains per pound was the smallest 
quantity which would prevent fermentation. That 1903 was 
a wet year, and the fruit being unduly moist, preservatives 
were especially necessary. Two medical witnesses considered 
that the quantity of salicylic acid present would be harmless. 

73. Marmalade containing 5'5 grains of salicylic acid per 
pound. Liverpool, February 1904. Convicted. 

74. Jam containing 3'25 grains of salicylic acid per pound. 
Manchester, January 1904. Convicted. 

Evidence for the prosecution was given by Dr. Sargeant, 
Medical Officer of Health to the Lancashire County Council. 
He agreed with the Departmental Committee that any pre- 
servative added should not exceed 1 grain per pound : 3 
grains might not be injurious to the health of adults, but 
would be an amount inadvisable for children. It was possible 
that the preservative might be used to disguise inferior fruit, 
and he found personally that, by using equal quantities of 
fruit and sugar, jam kept well enough without preservatives. 

For the defence it was submitted that a small quantity of 
preservative was necessary in order that the jam might be in a 
fit state for carriage or consumption, and that, to keep jam for 
at least fifteen months under varying conditions of temperature 
and atmosphere, salicylic acid was necessary, whatever might 
be true of home-made jam for household purposes. 

Dr. Graham, of the Wigan Infirmary, stated that he had 
never met with a case of poisoning from the use of salicylic 
acid, and that he instructed his own cook to use 2 to 4 grains 
of the preservative to the pound of jam. 

The Stipendiary Magistrate convicted on the grounds that, 
as the Departmental Committee, after examining witnesses of 
the highest scientific knowledge, considered that 1 grain per 



394 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

pound was sufficient, lie could not support the contention of 
the defence that 3 grains per pound was a necessary quantity. 

75. Jam containing 2-5 grains salicylic acid per pound. 
Con way, May 1904. Dismissed. Evidence was given that 
salicylic acid was frequently used by the trade, and that in 
twelve samples examined the average amount present was 2'8 
grains per pound, that 1 grain per pound as recommended by 
the Departmental Committee was worse than useless, and that 
minute traces of salicylic acid were found in all fruits. Medical 
evidence was also called as to the harmlessness of the small 
quantity of preservative present. 

76. Orange wine containing 10 grains of salicylic acid 
per pint, Dudley, February 1, 1902. Case dismissed. Dr. 
Wilkinson, Medical Officer of Health, stated that in his opinion 
this quantity would be injurious to health if continually used. 
Evidence for the defence was given by Mr. A. Gordon Salamon 
and Dr. A. P. Luff. 

77. Cherry brandy containing 6 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Chorley, June 14, 1902. Convicted, fined 51. and costs. 

78. Orange wine containing 15 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Melksham, August 1903. Convicted, fined 51. 

79. Orange wine containing 7'78 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Chester, January 10, 1903. Convicted, fined 51. and 
costs. 

80. Orange wine containing 10 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Pontypridd, August 8, 1903. Convicted, fined Is. 

81. Jam containing 2'6 grains of salicylic acid per pound. 
Southport, August 29, 1903. Convicted, fined 5s. This con- 
viction was subsequently confirmed on October 24, 1903, by 
the Cheshire Quarter Sessions on the ground that the quantity 
exceeded the amount recommended by the Departmental 
Committee. 

82. Elderberry cordial containing 5 grains of salicylic acid 
per pint. Bury, October 17, 1903. Convicted, fined 20. 

83. Ginger wine containing 7 - 28 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Cookstown, June 18, 1904. Convicted, fined 5s. 



LEGAL CASES 395 

84. Ginger wine containing 8*7 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Dungannon Quarter Sessions, June 25, 1904. The local 
Magistrates had convicted defendant, but upon appeal evidence 
was given by Professor Tichborne, Dr. Graves and Dr. Saggers 
to the effect that the quantity in question was necessary as a 
preservative, and that no harm could result from its use. The 
appeal was allowed and the conviction quashed. 

85. Belfast Quarter Sessions, October 1, 1904. There was an 
appeal against a conviction in respect of orange wine containing 
7'2 grains of salicylic acid per pint. Evidence for the defence 
was given by Sir William Whitla, Belfast, and Dr. Alexander 
Montgomery. The decision of the Magistrates was upheld and 
the conviction confirmed. 

86. Ginger wine containing 13 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Southwark Police Court, January 14, 1905. Case 
dismissed. 

87. Orange wine containing 3 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Brentford, February 25, 1905. Case dismissed. 

88. Ginger wine containing 2'4 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Eglinton, March 11, 1905. Convicted, fined 21. 

89. Ginger wine containing 2'7 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Portrush, April 1, 1905. Case dismissed. 

90. Ginger wine containing 6 grains of salicylic acid per 
pint. Salisbury, July 29, 1905. Convicted, fined 20s. 

91. Lime juice cordial containing 6 grains of salicylic acid 
per pint. Southwark Police Court, March 7, 1906. Case 
dismissed. 

92. Jam containing 2-5 grains salicylic acid per pound. 
Altrincham, May 1904. Dismissed. 

93. Glucose. The following case is of considerable interest, 
and is included here because it was successfully contended 
that the addition of glucose to marmalade not only prevented 
crystallization, but also had a tendency to prevent mildew and 
fermentation : 

Smith v. Wisden. Appeal ; King's Bench Division, 
November 1901 ; before Alverstone, L.C.J., Darling, J., and 



396 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Channell, J, Conviction of West Sussex Quarter Sessions 
quashed. 

The marmalade was purchased by an Inspector of the 
West Sussex County Council, and was found on analysis 
to contain 13 per cent, of glucose. It was labelled ' Crosse 
and Blackwell's Pure Orange Marmalade, manufactured entirely 
from Seville oranges, and warranted pure.' The defendant 
was convicted at the Worthing Court of Summary Jurisdiction, 
and the conviction was confirmed by the West Sussex Quarter 
Sessions. 

It was proved at Quarter Sessions that glucose was com- 
posed of 40 per cent, dextrose, 40 per cent, dextrine, and 20 
per cent, water, that it had been employed by many marmalade 
manufacturers for years, that there was no legal standard for 
marmalade, and that glucose was not injurious to health, but 
was used to prevent the marmalade crystallizing, and that it had 
also a tendency to prevent mildew and fermentation. It was 
contended, therefore, that the sale was not to the prejudice of 
the purchaser. The Bench, in confirming the conviction of the 
Magistrates, found : (1) that in asking for marmalade the pur- 
chaser desired to buy a substance composed of oranges cooked or 
preserved with cane-sugar or beet-sugar, and had not consented 
to be served with a preserve to which starch glucose had been 
added ; (2) that the sale of the article, which contained 13 per 
cent, of starch glucose, was to the prejudice of the purchaser ; 
and (3) that it was the sale of an article not of the nature, 
substance, and quality demanded. 

The appeal in the Higher Court of Justice was allowed, on 
the grounds that the evidence had failed to prove that the 
article was not of the nature, substance, and quality demanded 
by the purchaser. 

In order to sustain such a contention Alverstone, L.C.J., 
pointed out that the alteration must be to the prejudice of the 
purchaser, and that the prejudice must be that which the 
ordinary customer suffers : namely, by paying for one thing and 
getting another of inferior quality. The words inserted in the 



LEGAL CASES 397 

clause (section 6) are intended to show that the offence is not 
simply the giving of a different, but the giving of an inferior, 
thing to that demanded and paid for. In the case under con- 
sideration it had been proved to the Magistrates that glucose 
had been employed in the manufacture of marmalade for a 
period of fifteen years by a large number of manufacturers, 
but not by all. Therefore it is plain that the Magistrates 
found as a fact that it was an alternative ingredient in marma- 
lade. They found that there is no standard for marmalade, 
but that glucose was a frequent but not invariable constituent 
in varying the receipt. They found also that the use of 
glucose to the extent contained in the analyzed sample was 
not injurious to health, that it prevented the marmalade from 
crystallizing, and had a tendency to prevent mildewing and 
fermentation. Consequently the purchaser got an article 
which, if it differed at all, was different in the sense that it was 
better. The Justices, therefore, were not justified in coming to 
the conclusion that the sale was to the prejudice of the pur- 
chaser. 

This decision was followed in the Sheriff Court, Scotland, 
in 1905 after much evidence and argument. 

II. CASES EELATING TO COPPEE IN FOODS 

94. Peas containing 2'53 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Eochdale, January 25, 1902. Convicted, fined 55. 

95. Peas containing 2-5 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. February 1, 1902. Convicted, fined 21s. 

96. Peas containing 1 grain of metallic copper per pound. 
Blackpool, April 12, 1902. Convicted, fined 5s. 

97. Peas containing 4 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Manchester, June 14, 1902. Case dismissed. 

98. Peas containing 5 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Manchester, July 1902. Convicted, fined Is. 

99. Peas containing 2-45 grains of crystallized sulphate of 
copper per pound. Aberdeen, August 2, 1902. Convicted, 
fined 21 10s. 



398 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

100. Peas containing 3 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Ulverstone, August 30, 1902. Convicted, fined 51. 

101. Peas containing 2^ grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Bury, September 22, 1902. Convicted, fined 2Z. 

102. Peas containing 2 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Lambeth, November 29, 1902. Convicted, fined 10s. 

103. Peas containing 2' 5 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Lambeth, December 1902. Convicted, fined 205. 

104. Peas containing 2*8 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. January 10, 1903. Convicted, fined 20s. 

105. Peas containing 3'9 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Marlborough Street, February 21, 1903. Convicted, 
fined 51. 

106. Peas containing 3' 57 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. South wark Police Court, March 14, 1903. Convicted, 
fined 20s. In this case Dr. Brown, the Medical Officer of 
Health for Bermondsey, said the amount in question was very 
injurious to health. If a person happened to eat a pound of 
peas he would be seized with vomiting and diarrhoea. 

107. Peas containing 3'37 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Dudley, August 15, 1903. Convicted, fined 20s. 

108. Peas containing 1'33 grain of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Dudley, September 15, 1903. Convicted, fined 20s. 

109. Peas containing 2*66 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Dudley, September 19, 1903. Convicted, fined 20s. 

110. Peas containing 0'44 grain of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Dudley, September 26, 1903. Convicted, fined 40s. 

111. Peas containing 2-4 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. October 21, 1903. Convicted, fined 10s. 

112. Peas containing 0'5 grain of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Barrow, January 9, 1904. Dismissed. 

113. Six cases of peas containing quantities varying from 
1'7 to 2'9 grains per pound. Southwark Police Court, January 
23, 1904. Convicted, each fined 20s. In this case evidence 
was given by Dr. Robert Hutchison, of the London Hospital, 
and Dr. E. A. Young, of the Middlesex Hospital. 



LEGAL CASES 399 

114. Nine cases of peas containing sulphate of copper in 
varying quantities, the highest being 3'1 grains per pound. 
Bournemouth, April 16, 1904. Conviction in one case, fined 
30s. ; remaining cases withdrawn. 

115. Peas containing 2 - 5 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Marlborough Street, June 4, 1904. Convicted, fined 51. 
Haricot beans containing 2'21 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Same court. Convicted, fined 4/. 

116. Peas containing 0'84 grain of sulphate of copper per 
pound. July 30, 1904. Convicted, fined 40s. 

117. Peas containing | grain of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Dunfermline, August 13, 1904. Case dismissed on 
ground that person who buys preserved peas must be assumed 
to know that something has been added to preserve them. 

118. Peas containing 3'4 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Bow Street, August 20, 1904. Convicted, fined 40s. 

119. Peas containing 3'24 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Blackpool, December 17, 1904. Convicted, fined 51. 

120. Peas containing 2-96 grains of sulphate of copper 
per pound. Liverpool, February 11, 1905. Convicted, fined 
3Z. 

121. Peas containing 2| grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Derry, April 8, 1905. Convicted, fined 31. 

122. Peas containing 2 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Derry, March 18, 1905. Convicted, fined 31. 

123. Peas containing 2| grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Barrow, April 13, 1905. Convicted, fined 51. 

124. Peas containing 3'4 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Marlborough Street, June 24, 1905. Convicted, 
fined 51. 

125. Peas containing 2-34 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Westminster, July 29, 1905. Convicted, fined II. 

126. Peas containing 3-22 grains of copper per pound. 
Eamsgate, October 14, 1905. Convicted, fined 5s. In a con- 
sidered judgment the Eamsgate Stipendiary stated that the 
preponderance of scientific opinion sufficiently established the 



400 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

fact that the quantity of copper in this case rendered the peas 
injurious. 

127. Peas containing 3 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Birkdale, October 21, 1905. Convicted, fined 40s. 

128. Spinach containing 5 grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Westminster, October 2, 1905. Convicted, fined 40s. 

129. Spinach containing 7^ grains of sulphate of copper per 
pound. Westminster, December 9, 1905. Convicted, fined 3Z. 

130. Spinach containing 3 - 32 grains of sulphate of copper 
per pound. Marlborough Street, December 9, 1905. Convicted, 
fined 51. In this case Dr. F. J. Smith, of the London Hospital, 
deposed that sulphate of copper in such small quantities was 
perfectly harmless. 

At the same Court on the same day two other defendants 
were fined for selling peas containing 3 - 4 and 4'47 grains of 
sulphate of copper respectively. 

131. Spinach containing 4'75 grains of sulphate of copper 
per pound. Liverpool, January 13, 1906. Convicted, fined 40s. 

132. Copper in spinach. Police Court proceedings, Novem- 
ber 9, 1905. Conviction. The case was tried at Marlborough 
Police Court on November 9, the Civil Service Co-operative 
Society, Limited, Haymarket, being charged with selling 
to the prejudice of the purchaser a tin of spinach con- 
taining 0-0166 per cent, of copper (the equivalent of 4 - 57 
grains of copper to each pound of spinach). Dr. F. J. Allan, 
Medical Officer of Health for Westminster, stated that in his 
opinion the use of copper in tinned spinach was unnecessary 
and harmful ; he had seen preserved spinach having its natural 
colour retained without the use of copper. For the defence it 
was contended that this particular spinach was not sold to the 
prejudice of the public, inasmuch as its nature was disclosed 
on the label : sulphate of copper had been recommended as a 
preservative, and was the only means of keeping spinach in an 
appetizing form. The Magistrates imposed a fine of 10Z., with 
51. costs. 



LEGAL CASES 401 

III. IMPOETANT APPEAL CASES 

133. Copper in peas. Appeal to Quarter Sessions (South 
London) from the conviction of the appellant for an offence 
against section 3 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, 
before E. N. Fen wick, Esq., sitting at the Southwark Police 
Court, May 1896. 

The following is an abstract of the judgment of the Court 
taken from the ' Justice of the Peace,' May 30, 1896. (The 
amount of copper in the peas was taken at 3 grains in the 
pound.) 

' Guy and Ferrier, in 1895, say that copper may be used 
medicinally on a human subject in doses from half a grain to 
2 grains as an astringent, and from 5 grains to 10 grains as an 
emetic. To animals, the dog especially, the quantity which 
may be given for considerable periods, without sensible effect, 
is very large. The same authors also quote recorded instances 
to show that human beings may take this same drug for a 
lengthened period without serious symptoms ; one of these 
refers to Eaermacher, a man known to the scientific world, 
who took it for eight months with no effect but a ravenous 
appetite and painless diarrhoea, but the Court would have 
difficulty in believing that an unnatural craving for food, and 
diarrhoaa, though painless, do not point to a condition of the 
system incompatible with a normal state of health. Touissant 
again is quoted as having taken from 3 to 7^ grains for 
fourteen days with no symptoms but metallic taste, and as 
having after taking various preparations of copper for six 
months remained quite well. Here again arises the question 
whether a metallic taste is compatible with sound health. 
The same authors mention a form of disease called copper 
colic as prevailing among workers in copper. This effect some 
attribute to the fumes or other influences of the copper itself, 
others to metal blended with it as alloys. Ogier, Charteris, 
and Snodgrass are severally quoted to show that the presence 
of salts of copper in small quantities has no bad influence. It 

26 



402 

has been urged in favour of sulphate of copper that it is used 
as a medical remedy, in doses of a half to 2 grains. It is, 
however, admitted that the use of it has been worthily discon- 
tinued, other more desirable and efficacious appliances having 
come into vogue. The Court has, however, found its attention 
drawn to the fact that the administering this drug where it 
acts and is acted upon by some already existing derangement 
of the system, whereby its effects are concentrated must be 
regarded in a different light from its being gradually absorbed 
into the system for a lengthened period. Tschirch l has been 
largely quoted by both sides. He says that salts of copper can 
cause poisoning and even death to man, but that the experi- 
ments show that such results, to say the least, are seldom 
found, and that mostly after ceasing the taking the parts 
deranged return quickly to their normal state ; but that he 
cannot regard in the light of such which from the context 
seems to mean to such a degree as lead, antimony, and other 
poisons. As to colouring he approves of it as rendering food 
more attractive to the eye, and thus promoting appetite, 
provided always that no injury to health attaches to the 
process. In colouring he says and this is important that 
the copper phyllo-cyanate alone acts, that copper leguminate, 
which is only formed freely when there is too much copper, is 
to be avoided, as it is useless for the purpose of colouring. 
The Court must notice here that in the case before it the 
proportions show one-third of copper phyllo-cyanate and two- 
thirds of leguminate. He regards as of great importance on 
principle the question whether copper salts should be allowed 
in food, in view that it is undoubted that it affects, though 
slightly, the health if taken in sufficient quantity, and it is 
desirable to fix a quantity which has been shown to be harm- 
less. This, he says, throws a great responsibility on the 
hygienic chemist. The quantity allowed by Tschirch varies 
from 1 in 40,000 to a maximum of 1 in 10,000, whereas in the 
case before the Court the quantity found is 1 in 8,750, or, 

1 Monograph : Das Kupler, Stuttgart, 1893. Vide also Blyth an Foods, p. 224. 



LEGAL CASES 403 

according to the appellant's contention, 1 in 8,772, thus exceed- 
ing Tschirch's maximum limit. For colouring purposes his 
proportion is 18 in 1,000,000, whereas the result in the case 
before the Court shows 114 in 1,000,000. The same author, 
however, considers that experiments have not been continued 
for a sufficiently long time to arrive at anything like certainty 
on the question. He seems to think that it would be abortive 
to prohibit absolutely copper in food and drink, because this 
would be equivalent to prohibiting the plant to absorb it from 
the ground, and to classify the consumption of bread and 
chocolate amongst the things injurious to health. The Court 
have had brought to their notice by the learned counsel for the 
appellant two prosecutions under this same statute and section 
in Glasgow, in both of which the defendants w r ere acquitted, 
but in the former of those cases the quantity charged was 1'4 
of added matter. The quantity in the second case was 2'5. The 
learned Sheriff Birnie declined to convict, because he had no 
evidence before him of the difference in effect between 1-4 and 
2- 5. To corroborate the general opinion that copper used for 
colouring matter is innocuous, the learned counsel for the 
appellant brought to the notice of the Court that in France 
there is no restriction as to its use whatever. Though this 
general statement does not influence the Court in this case, the 
proceedings of the French Government from time to time are 
not without interest. It appears that France is by far the 
largest exporter of preserved fruits and vegetables. In 1853 it 
prohibited the use of copper salts in preserved articles of food 
at first in Paris but the prohibition seven years later was 
extended to the whole country on the recommendation of 
appointed experts, who were of the opinion that, although the 
quantities extracted from certain samples were small and 
not likely to produce serious accidents, yet the presence of a 
highly poisonous substance in proportions without a fixed 
limit involved a risk which should not be permitted to exist. 
France, however, even at that time, had 20,000 hands and a 
capital of 40,000,000 fr. engaged in the manufactures, and 



404 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

appeals were made against this decision, and it was urged that 
greening for export should be permitted, but not for home use. 
At length in 1889, on the report of a consulting committee, 
prohibition was withdrawn absolutely. On the other hand, in 
most of the continental countries restrictions are in force. It 
has also been urged that the upholding of a conviction of this 
kind would be to seriously interfere with a very large and 
important branch of trade. The Court are not apprehensive 
on that score, seeing there are simple means of obviating such 
a result. But even were it otherwise, the Court do not think 
that such a consideration should influence their judgment. To 
quote all the authorities put before the Court in this case 
would exceed the limits of a judgment. It is to be observed 
that the proportion of the added foreign substance is in excess 
of that in all the cases brought forward except in a case at 
Bristol. After carefully perusing and considering the whole 
of the evidence oral and written, the Court are forced to the 
conclusion that, where the opinions of eminent authorities are 
still in a state of uncertainty, it would be mischievous to 
countenance an addition of this foreign substance to articles 
of food in a larger proportion than that which they suggest. 
The quantity in this case is considerably in excess of that 
quantity. The Court is therefore of opinion that the conviction 
should be upheld. The appeal is therefore dismissed.' 

134. From the < Law Times,' March 18, 1905. Copper in 
peas. King's Bench Division, Friday, November 4, 1904. 
(Before Lord Alverstone, C.J., Kennedy and Eidley, JJ.). 
Hull (appellant) v. Horsnell (respondent). 

Food and Drugs Preserved peas Sulphate of copper 
Injurious to health Certificate of analyst Sale of Food and 
Drugs Act, 1875 (38 and 39 Viet. c. 63) s. 3. 

Under section 3 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, 
the article of food must be rendered injurious to health by 
being mixed with some ingredient. It is not sufficient that the 
ingredient with which the food is mixed is injurious to health. 
The certificate of the analyst in the case of an alleged 






LEGAL CASES 405 

offence under this section is not sufficient, if it complies with 
the form in the schedule to the Act of 1875, merely because it 
does not state that the ingredient so mixed ' rendered the article 
injurious to health.' 

Case stated on an information preferred by the respondent 
against the appellant under the Food and Drugs Act, 1875, 
charging that the appellant did, on February 19, 1904, 
unlawfully and wilfully sell to the respondent a certain article 
of food to wit, bottled peas which to the knowledge of the 
appellant was mixed with a certain ingredient called sulphate 
of copper, which ingredient was injurious to health, contrary 
to the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 1875-1899. 

The respondent, an inspector under the Sale of Food and 
Drugs Acts, purchased of the appellant, a greengrocer carrying 
on business at Bexhill, a bottle of preserved peas for the 
purpose of analysis. 

The respondent divided the peas so purchased into three 
parts, and sent one part to the public analyst, who gave his 
certificate as follows : 

' I, the undersigned public analyst for the administrative 
county of East Sussex, do hereby certify that I received from 
yourself on February 20 (per registered parcel post) a sample 
of bottled peas, No. 14, for analysis (which then weighed about 
4^ oz.), and have analyzed the same, and declare the result of 
my analysis to be as follows : I am of opinion that the said 
sample is adulterated with sulphate of copper to the extent of 
at least 1'87 grains per pound. Observations. The copper 
salt has doubtless been added to improve the colour of the 
peas.' 

The respondent proved that the bottle containing the 
peas bore the following label, 'English Garden Peas . . . 
Colour preserved with a small portion of sulphate of copper. 
Finest English Marrowfat Peas. Preserved in Kent. Petty, 
Wood & Co., London.' 

The public analyst was called for the prosecution, and he 
proved : (a) That sulphate of copper was a poisonous substance 



406 PKESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

and injurious to health ; (&) that sulphate of copper was used 
to preserve the colour of the peas ; (c) that he had never 
known anyone personally, or heard of anyone injured by eating 
peas containing copper, but that he, the public analyst, suffered 
from colic if he ate coppered peas; (d) that out of eight 
samples examined by him during the previous quarter, seven 
contained copper. On behalf of the appellant it was contended 
that the information did not disclose any offence under the 
Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, because it did not allege 
that the admixture of the ingredient called sulphate of copper 
rendered the article of food namely, the peas injurious to 
health, but merely that the ingredient itself was injurious to 
health, that therefore the information was bad in law, and the 
appellant could not be convicted upon it. Tt was also con- 
tended on behalf of the appellant that the certificate of the 
public analyst did not disclose any offence, and was insufficient, 
and did not comply with the requirements of the Sale of Food 
and Drugs Act, 1875. 

On behalf of the respondent it was contended that the 
information did disclose an offence under the Act, that it is 
sufficient to constitute an offence under the latter part of 
section 3 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, if the 
ingredient itself which is mixed with the article of food is 
injurious to health, and it is not necessary to show that the 
ingredient renders the article of food injurious to health. 

It was also contended that the analyst's certificate was 
sufficient, being in the form provided by the schedule to the 
Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, and that the certificate 
need not disclose any offence. It was contended also that the 
insufficiency (if any) was remedied by the public analyst being 
called as a witness to give evidence of the facts. 

The Justices were of opinion that sulphate of copper, which 
was an ingredient in the peas, was injurious to health, and they 
therefore convicted the appellant, being of opinion that the 
ingredient necessarily rendered the whole article sold injurious 
to health. 



LEGAL CASES 407 

The questions for the opinion of the Court were : (1) 
Whether the information disclosed an offence under the Sale of 
Food and Drugs Act, 1875, and was valid in law ; (2) whether 
the public analyst's certificate was sufficient and valid in law. 

Lord Alverstone, C. J. : If the Justices had convicted the 
appellant of an offence under section 3 of the Sale of Food 
and Drugs Act, 1875, on the ground that the ingredient which 
was mixed with the article of food sulphate of copper was 
injurious to health, and not on the ground that the peas by 
reason of the addition of the sulphate of copper were rendered 
injurious to health, I am clearly of opinion that the conviction 
would be wrong. I have no doubt that in order to constitute 
an offence under section 3 the article of food must be found 
to be injurious to health by the addition of some ingredient. 
We have seen the summons which recites the information, and, 
speaking for myself, I think that the Justices have, in fact, 
found the article itself namely, the peas was injurious to 
health when they said that the ingredient necessarily rendered 
the whole article sold injurious to health. As, however, there 
may be some doubt as to whether they have so found, I think 
that the case ought to be sent back to them, with directions 
that if they can find the peas as sold were injurious to health 
the conviction should stand, but if they find, not that the peas 
were injurious to health, but that the sulphate of copper, the 
ingredient with which they were mixed, was, the conviction 
should not stand. 

Mr. Avory has taken a second point namely, that the 
conviction cannot stand because the certificate of the analyst 
is insufficient. (His Lordship read the certificate and con- 
tinued) : It was contended that at the end of the finding the 
analyst should have added the words, ' which rendered the 
articles injurious to health,' since the certificate, as it stands, 
does not show on the face of it that any offence has been 
committed. I cannot agree with that contention. The analyst 
could not know with what offence the person would be charged. 
In my opinion, the certificate is sufficient if it is one which is 



408 PEBSEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

in accordance with the terms of the schedule, and sets out the 
description of the goods sent for analysis, the weight, and the 
other requirements of the schedule. 

Kennedy and Kidley, JJ., agreed. 

Case remitted to the Justices. 

The following interesting case is quoted from the ' Justice 
of the Peace,' December 21, 1904. 

135. King's Bench Division, May 16, 17, 1904. Friend v. 
Mapp. 

Sale of food and drugs Adulteration Sulphate of copper 
used to colour preserved peas Sale to the prejudice of a 
purchaser Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875 (38 & 39 Viet, 
c. 63), s. 6. 

The respondent was summoned for selling preserved peas 
the colour of which had been retained by the addition of 
sulphate of copper, but in such small quantity as not to be 
injurious to health, and evidence was given that preserved peas 
are habitually sold with such addition. The Justices dismissed 
the summons. Held, that the decision was justifiable on the 
facts of the case. 

Case stated by Justices of the Peace for the county of 
London, acting in and for the Kensington Petty Sessional 
Division of the said county : 

1. The respondent was summoned for unlawfully selling to 
the prejudice of the purchaser an article of food, to wit, preserved 
peas (sample No. 75), which was not of the nature, substance, 
and quality of the article demanded by such purchaser, for the 
reason that the same contained, as stated in the certificate of 
the public analyst for the said borough, 0*00924 per centum of 
copper, equivalent to 2-55 grains per pound of crystallized 
sulphate of copper, contrary to the provisions of section 6 of 
the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875. 

4. The appellant called evidence to prove that copper was 
not a normal constituent of peas or of the human body. That 
a medicinal dose of sulphate of copper was from to 2 grains, 
and acts as an astringent. That in large doses sulphate of 



LEGAL CASES 409 

copper acts as an irritant, and is apt to produce vomiting, and 
is a cumulative poison. That its occasional consumption in 
such a quantity as had been found in the said peas would not 
harm a healthy individual, but that habitual consumption 
thereof might injuriously affect the health and produce chronic 
ill health, and that copper is added to preserve peas, to give 
them a fresh bright green colour ; but the appellant's witness 
admitted that such peas had been generally used for some 
years, and that he knew of no recorded case of injury arising 
from their use. 

5. No evidence was called by the respondent, and the 
correctness of the analyst's certificate \vas not disputed. 

6. The appellant contended (1) that inasmuch as copper or 
crystallized sulphate of copper was foreign to the said preserved 
peas, the same were not of the nature, substance, and quality 
of the article demanded ; and (2) that by reason thereof there 
had been a sale by the respondent to the prejudice of the 
purchaser ; and (3) that the addition of copper or crystallized 
sulphate of copper in the proportion aforesaid was injurious to 
health ; and (4) that in the absence of evidence by the respon- 
dent that the matter or ingredient w 7 as required for the pro- 
duction or preparation of the peas as an article of commerce 
in a state fit for consumption, even if the said copper or 
crystallized sulphate of copper was not injurious to health, an 
offence had been committed under section 6 of the Sale of 
Food and Drugs Act, 1875. 

7. It was contended on behalf of the respondent that, as 
the purchaser asked for preserved peas, and was supplied with 
peas usually known and sold as preserved peas, there was no 
sale to the prejudice of the purchaser within the meaning of 
the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875. 

8. It was within our own knowledge that preserved peas usually 
contain a small quantity of added colouring matter which is 
used for the purpose of preserving the natural green colour of 
the peas, and we found as a fact that the quantity of copper 
present in this instance, being only 1 grain of metallic copper 



410 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

to about 10,800 grains of peas, was not sufficient to render the 
peas injurious to health. We were further of opinion that, as 
the appellant asked for preserved peas, and was supplied with 
peas usually known and sold as preserved peas, and containing 
no foreign ingredient other than that which is usually found in 
preserved peas, and in no greater quantity than as aforesaid, 
there was no sale to the prejudice of the purchaser within the 
meaning of section 6 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875. 
The summons was dismissed. 

9. The question for the opinion of the Court was whether 
upon the facts stated we were right in point of law in dismiss- 
ing the summons. 

Manisty, K.C., and Courthope Munroe, for the appellant. 
The Justices were wrong. He cited Smith v. Wisden (1902), 
66 J.P. 150; 85 L.T. 760. 
Bonsey for the respondent. 

Manisty, K.C., in reply, referred to Pearks v. Ward [1902], 
2 KB. 1 ; 64 J.P. 774 ; and Eoberts v. Egerton (1874), L.E. 
9 Q.B. 494. 

Alverstone, L.C.J. I am of opinion that in this case we 
cannot interfere with the decision of the Justices ; but it must 
be quite understood that we are only dealing with the facts 
stated in this particular case, and that we express no opinion 
as to the views which ought to be taken by Justices in cases 
where the evidence is different ; nor must it be considered that 
we express any opinion as to what conclusion should have 
been drawn from the facts even as stated here. We must be 
satisfied, before we can interfere, that there has been some 
mistake in law, and it appears to me impossible to say that in 
the case before us the Justices have gone wrong in law. The 
case contains no statement which can admit of the point 
counsel for the appellant has endeavoured to raise, which in 
itself would be a point of substance, that when a person asks 
for a bottle of preserved peas he means to get a bottle of peas 
which have not been treated in any manner for the purpose of 
preserving them. If it can be said that preserved peas mean 



LEGAL CASES 411 

nothing more than mere peas in a bottle with water perhaps, 
and nothing else, there might indeed be some ground for such 
a contention, but the finding of fact in the case does not allow 
of such a point being raised. The finding in paragraph 3 (a) 
of the case is that ' the purchaser asked for and was served 
with a bottle of preserved peas ' ; and in paragraph 4 that 
' the appellant's witness admitted that such peas have been 
generally used for some years, and that he knew of no recorded 
case of injury arising from their use.' Furthermore, the 
Justices in paragraph 8 make the following statement : ' It 
was within our own knowledge that preserved peas usually con- 
tain a small quantity of added colouring matter which is used 
for the purpose of preserving the natural green colour of the 
peas ' ; and ' the appellant . . . was supplied with peas usually 
known and sold as preserved peas, and containing no foreign 
ingredient other than that which is usually found in preserved 
peas, and in no greater quantity than as aforesaid,' namely, 
' 1 grain of metallic copper to about 10,800 grains of peas.' 
Under these circumstances it seems to me that a great many 
of the arguments put forward by counsel for the appellant 
would be very properly used in some other case to induce 
Justices to come to a different conclusion of fact, or, on a case 
stated differently from the present case, to show that an 
offence had been committed, but in our opinion we cannot 
send this case back to them. Here the very finding of the 
Justices prevents the case coming within the initial words of 
section 6 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, which are : 
' No person shall sell to the prejudice of the purchaser any 
article of food or any drug which is not of the nature, sub- 
stance, and quality of the article demanded by such purchaser.' 
Had the appellant, the purchaser in the present case, not got 
what he asked for, I should have been of opinion that neither 
proviso (1) nor proviso (4) of section 6 would have afforded 
any protection to the seller ; since to justify the supply of an 
article different from that demanded under any of the provisos 
to section 6, evidence of a character entirely different from the 



412 PEESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

evidence suggested in this case must be given. I should like 
to point out that, so far as we are in a position to judge, the 
appellant's real remedy in this particular case would have been 
under section 3 of the Act, which prohibits the colouring of 
articles of food so as to render them injurious to health. But, 
as I have said before, to satisfy section 6 evidence very 
different from that given in the present case must be given ; 
and the only possible thing we could do would be to send it 
back to the Justices for further inquiry ; but as we certainly 
cannot send it back to them with a direction to convict, and 
since we cannot say that the Justices were wrong in law, I am 
of opinion that the appeal must be dismissed. 

Wills, J. I am of the same opinion. It is clear that the 
protection afforded by provisos (1) and (4) of section 6 cannot 
be claimed, for the substantive part of section 6 goes far 
beyond the provisos. I should certainly be sorry to say 
anything which would sanction the notion that people can sell 
unwholesome mixtures simply because they happen to be 
known in the trade by a particular name ; but when anyone 
asks for preserved peas he must be taken to know that he is 
going to get peas that have a colouring tincture of some sort. 
I am not prepared to say that in the present case I should, 
upon the evidence, have come to the conclusion the Justices 
did, but that is beside the question, for it was well within 
their powers to decide as they did, and, to put the matter 
shortly, they have stated the appellant out of Court. 

Kennedy, J. I agree. Appeal dismissed. 

Solicitors for the appellant : Pontifex, Hewitt and Pitt. 

Solicitors for the respondent : Neve, Beck and Kirby. 

IV. UNSOUND FOOD 

136. Canned French beans. At the Brighton Police Court, 
January 1901, a firm of Soho provision importers were con- 
victed for selling tins of French beans unfit for food. In all there 
were six cases, containing twenty-four dozen tins. Some of 
them were bulged, some leaking, and in 247 instances the tins 



LEGAL CASES 413 

had been pricked and resoldered. In many cases the contents 
were mildewy and foul. At the London premises a piercing 
iron, copper bit, and solder, had been found by the Sanitary 
Inspector of the City of "Westminster at a previous visit. The 
tins were sold to a restaurant-keeper at Brighton. 

137. Mouldy jam and fruit, and unsound condensed milk. At 
the Folkestone Police Court, May 1901, a dealer was summoned 
for exposing for sale in an auctioneer's sale-room thirty-four 
pots of jam, ten bottles of plums, one bottle of gooseberries, 
and six tins of condensed milk, which were unfit for food. 
The Sanitary Inspector deposed to having seen the foods de- 
posited in the sale-room for the purpose of sale and exposed for 
sale. The pots of jam were mouldy, fermenting, and sour, 
the plums and gooseberries being in a similar condition. He 
examined about forty tins of condensed milk, and four of them 
were blown and decomposing. Two of the tins were open, and 
the contents decomposing and mouldy. The Medical Officer of 
Health said he examined the articles. Four of the tins of milk 
were blown, and when one of them was pricked the gas rushed 
out. Such food if eaten would give rise to indigestion and 
diarrhoea. For the defence it was submitted that people had 
a right to eat what they liked, and that jam frequently crystal- 
lized and mould formed on the top, the jam beneath remaining 
quite wholesome. The same applied to the bottled fruit. Con- 
victed. 

138. Unsound fruit pulp. At the Birmingham Police Court, 
January 1904, a jam maker was convicted for having twenty- 
four bottles of preserved fruit and several casks of fruit pulp 
deposited on his premises for the purposes of sale, or of 
preparation for sale, which were unsound and unfit for food. 
Behind a door in the yard there was a cask containing goose- 
berry pulp. It was about two-thirds full of decomposed pulp, 
but was labelled ' not to be used.' Other casks containing 
similarly unsound pulp were likewise labelled. There were, 
however, three unopened casks of pulp, and twenty-four 
bottles of fruit, the contents of all being bad and in a state of 



414 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

decomposition. The Medical Officer of Health deposed to 
having examined the fruit and found it bad ; there were pieces 
of fungus in it. Jam made from such material would be 
dangerous to the consumer. For the defence it was contended 
that the pulp was not intended for use, but that the labels 
' not to be used ' had been washed off by rain. 

139. Bad crabs. At Yarmouth Police Court, October 1901, 
a restaurant proprietor was summoned for exposing for sale 
crabs unfit for food. For the defence it was contended that it 
was the practice of the trade to open the crabs before selling 
them to ascertain if they were sound, but that the public would 
not buy them if previously opened. Convicted. 

140. Unsound halibut. At the Grimsby Police Court, 
March 1903, a fish merchant was summoned for exposing for 
sale eleven unsound halibuts ; a twelfth fish appeared to be 
sound. The fish were condemned by a Magistrate and 
destroyed. For the defence it was contended that the fish 
were not bad, but were Norwegian halibut in prime condition ; 
others of the same batch had been sent to various towns and 
no complaint had been made. The defendant was supported 
by the fish Inspector of the Hull market. 

The Bench considered the weight of evidence to be in 
favour of the defendant, and dismissed the case. 

141. Oysters. At the Mansion House Police Court, 
December 1903, application was made under the Public 
Health (London) Act for an order to condemn certain oysters 
as being unfit for food. The Sanitary Inspector stated that 
he had seized 100 oysters at a fish saleswoman's shop, they 
having been exposed for sale in a barrel. Ten days previously 
the Medical Officer of Health for Wandsworth had reported to 
the Medical Officer of Health for the City of London that a case 
of typhoid fever had occurred in his district, which had presum- 
ably arisen from the consumption of oysters derived from the 
same source as those seized. Two batches of these oysters had 
in the meantime been procured and examined bacteriologically, 
and had been pronounced to be polluted by sewage. The oysters 



LEGAL CASES 415 

were therefore seized by the Inspector, and the application was 
made in order that they might be examined too. The applica- 
tion was granted, on the understanding that any further sale of 
these oysters would be at the seller's risk. 

142. The following cases under the Public Health Acts, 
recently decided in the High Court, and having reference to 
diseased meat, are of great importance to all concerned in the 
inspection of articles of food. 

Firth v. MacPhail, King's Bench Division, April 3, 1905. 
(J.P. 69, p. 203.) Cow slaughtered to ' save its life ' after 
parturition and sepsis. Bought with knowledge by appellant 
(a middleman), and consigned to a meat salesman, and deposited 
by appellant on salesman's premises. 

Consignor summoned and convicted in Court of Summary 
Jurisdiction under Public Health Acts Amendment Act, 1890, 
section 28, as being the person to whom the cow did belong 
when deposited for the purpose of sale. Case stated. Held 
that appellant could not be subjected to the penalties under 
section 117 of the 1875 Act since the meat was not exposed 
for sale, and that the amending section only increased the scope 
of the articles which could be seized and condemned, and did 
not create a new offence. 

143. High Court of Justice. Queen's Bench Division. 
June 6, 1899. A. L. Smith, L.J., Eigby, L.J., and Vaughan 
Williams, L.J. 

Walshaw v. Brighouse Corporation. Local Government 
Condemnation of meat unfit for food of man Compensation 
Arbitration Jurisdiction of arbitrator Cost of magisterial 
proceedings Public Health Act, 1875 (38 & 39 Vic., cap. 55), 
sections 116, 117 and 308. 

Where meat has been condemned and ordered to be destroyed 
by a Magistrate as unfit for the food of man, and the owner of 
the meat claims compensation under section 308 of the Public 
Health Act, 1875, the arbitrator appointed to award compensa- 
tion under that section has jurisdiction to decide the question 
of the soundness of the meat, and may award as part of the 



416 PKESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

compensation the expenses incurred by the claimant in pro- 
ceedings before the Magistrate. 

Appeal by the defendants from a judgment of Day, J., 
without a jury. The facts were these : The Sanitary Inspector 
and the Medical Officer of Health for the district of Brighouse, 
acting under section 116 of the Public Health Act, 1875, 
inspected a carcass belonging to the plaintiff, which had been 
deposited at the public slaughter-house at Brighouse for the 
purpose of preparation for sale, and was intended for the food 
of man, and came to the conclusion that the carcass was 
diseased and unfit for the food of man. They thereupon 
showed it to a Justice of the Peace, who on October 19, 1897, 
upon examination and inspection, found that the carcass was 
diseased and unfit for the food of man, and acting under 
section 117 of the Public Health Act, 1875, and section 28, 
sub-section 2, of the Public Health (A.) Act, 1890, ordered it to 
be destroyed, and it was destroyed accordingly. A summons was 
then issued summoning the plaintiff to appear before a court 
of summary jurisdiction to answer an information laid by the 
Medical Officer to the effect that the carcass belonged to the 
plaintiff and was deposited for the purpose of preparation for 
sale, and was intended for the food of man, and was diseased, 
and to show cause why he should not be fined or imprisoned 
under section 117 of the Public Health Act, 1875. This 
summons was dismissed upon the ground that, as the carcass 
was not in the possession of the plaintiff, or exposed for sale, 
there was no offence under that section. No order was made 
by the Justices as to costs, and no further proceedings were 
taken against the plaintiff. 

The plaintiff, not being content with the finding of the 
Magistrate that the carcass was diseased and unfit for the food 
of man, made a claim against the defendants, the local authority, 
for damage sustained by him by reason of the exercise by them 
through their officers of their powers under sections 116 and 117 
of the Public Health Act, 1875, in certifying that the carcass 
was diseased, and having the same condemned and destroyed 



LEGAL CASES 417 

accordingly. The defendants disputing the fact of damage and 
the amount of compensation (if any) to be paid, the plaintiff 
appointed an arbitrator under sections 308 and 179 of the 
Public Health Act, 1875, and gave notice to the defendants of 
the appointment. The defendants took no steps in the matter, 
and accordingly by section 180 of the Public Health Act, 1875, 
the arbitrator appointed by the plaintiff became sole arbitrator 
between the parties. At the hearing the plaintiff tendered, and 
the arbitrator, overruling the defendants' objections, admitted, 
evidence that the carcass was sound, wholesome, and in every 
way fit for the food of man on October 19. 

The arbitrator in due course made his award, which, after 
reciting the facts above stated, continued in these words : 

' I find as facts : 1. That the seizure and condemnation of 
the said carcass was made. ... 2. That the said magisterial 
information was laid and dismissed as alleged. 3. That the 
said carcass was not diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or 
unfit for the food of man on the said 19th day of October, 1897, 
when the said order to destroy the same was made. 4. That 
the said carcass on the 19th day of October, 1897, when the 
same was ordered to be destroyed as aforesaid, was sound, 
wholesome, and fit for the food of man. 5. That the said 
David Walshaw, by reason of the exercise of the said powers, 

has sustained damages as follows : 

s. d. 

(a) The loss of the said carcass 7 10 

(6) Expenses of and incident to the said seizure, and of 
and incident to defending himself in the said 

magisterial proceedings . 37 1 

(c) Loss in his said business which immediately and 
necessarily flowed from the said seizure, con- 
demnation, and magisterial proceedings . . 52 

Total 96 11 

The arbitrator further ordered and directed that the 
defendants should pay to the plaintiff his costs of and incidental 
to the reference and costs of the award, and that the defendants 
should bear their own costs of the same. 

The plaintiff brought an action upon this award, and the 

27 



418 PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 

case was heard at Leeds before Day, J., without a jury. Evidence 
that the carcass was unsound and unfit for the food of man 
was tendered by the defendants, but rejected by the learned 
Judge, who gave judgment for the plaintiff. 

The defendants appealed. 

Macmorran, Q.C., and T. B.. D. Wright appeared for the 
defendants. Scott Fox, Q.C., W. J. Waugh, W. Madden and 
G. P. Walker, for the plaintiff, were not called upon. 

A. L. Smith, L.J. : The arbitrator has drawn his award in 
the right form. It is not in form a decision on the question of 
the appellants' liability, but is a finding of facts upon which a 
court of law may decide that question. By section 308 of the 
Public Health Act, 1875, ' Where any person sustains any 
damage by reason of the exercise of any of the powers of this 
Act in relation to any matter as to which he is not himself in 
default ' the respondent says he has suffered such damage 
4 full compensation shall be made to such person by the local 
authority exercising such powers ' I will deal with the com- 
pensation presently ' and any dispute as to the fact of damage 
or amount of compensation shall be settled by arbitration.' 
What is the meaning of ' the fact of damage ' ? These words 
have been construed by Lord Selborne and Lord Fitzgerald in 
Brierley Hill Local Board v. Pearsall. Lord Selborne there 
says, ' That matter of fact no doubt cannot be ascertained 
without dealing with the actual state of facts, whatever it may 
be found to be ; and that actual state of facts may possibly 
raise questions of law as to what is or what is not done 
properly ' in the exercise of any of the powers of the Act, ' and 
also as to what is and what is not a default on the part of the 
claimant. But the inquiry does not cease to be an inquiry 
into the facts though the facts may raise questions of law. If 
the arbitrator goes into the inquiry, as he ought, as a question 
of fact, and if he deals with the facts as he finds them, but 
-deals with them in a wrong view of those facts according to 
law, then no doubt his award will not be final.' But it is not 
suggested that the arbitrator in this case has dealt with the 



LEGAL CASES 419 

facts in any wrong view. Then Lord Fitzgerald says, ' In 
establishing his case under that section ' section 308 ' the 
plaintiff has to sustain four propositions, viz. first, that he 
had sustained damage ; secondly, that such damage had been 
occasioned by reason of the exercise of the local authority of 
the powers of the Act; thirdly, that such damage arose in 
relation to some matter as to which he was not himself in 
default ; and fourthly, the amount of compensation to which 
he was properly entitled. Any dispute as to propositions 1 
and 4 is to be settled by arbitration. The fact of damage 
comes first in the section, and it is the foundation of all the 
rest. In the execution of his duties it is difficult to see how 
the arbitrator can avoid inquiring whether the acts complained 
of were matters done in the exercise of the powers of the Act, 
and as to which the claimant was not himself in default, so as 
to limit the scope of his assessment of compensation ; but his 
decision, if any, as to the liability of the defendants in point 
of law would not be binding, and would be inoperative.' 

If the award involves an error in law it is open to the party 
sued upon the award to set up the question of law as a defence 
to the action. Here the arbitrator finds that in exercise of and 
accordance with, or pretended exercise or virtue of, the powers 
and provisions of the Public Health Act, 1875, the defendants 
by their officer on October 19, 1897, seized the carcass and 
caused the same to be condemned by a Justice of the Peace ; 
and that the carcass was not diseased, or unsound, or un- 
wholesome, or unfit for the food of man, on October 19 when 
the order to destroy the same was made. It is said that he 
ought not to have gone into the question of the soundness of 
the meat. But how otherwise could he find the fact of damage ? 
In order to find that fact he must go into the question of the 
soundness. Then it is said he has not addressed himself to 
the question whether the claim for compensation was in rela- 
tion to a matter as to which the claimant was not himself in 
default. But if the carcass was sound, how was the claimant 
in default ? It is argued that he was in default immediately 



420 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

on the finding by the Magistrate that the carcass was unsound. 
But unless it was unsound in fact, he never came within 
sections 116 and 117 at all. 

The plaintiff having thus lost the carcass and been put to 
expense, it is next contended that the damage was not caused 
through the act of the defendants. But it was all the result 
of a blunder by their officer acting in the course of his duty. 
Then it is said that he cannot recover the 371. Is., the expenses 
of the proceedings. I ask myself ' Why not ? ' The words of 
section 308 are ' full compensation shall be made.' The only 
question is, had the plaintiff 371. Is. less in pocket through the 
action of the local authority ? It is said that these expenses 
are costs ; but Bater and Birkenhead Corporation, In re, is an 
authority that they may be recovered notwithstanding. True, 
in that case the claimant for compensation appeared before the 
Justice to show cause why the meat should not be condemned ; 
but what difference does it make whether the expense is incurred 
before or after condemnation ? In the words of Lord Esher, 
M.E., ' We are bound to read section 308 in its ordinary and 
grammatical sense. The words used are very wide, and it 
seems to me that they must include any pecuniary loss which 
a man suffers when he is not himself in default.' I think 
these are expenses for the payment of which the respondent 
was entitled to full compensation, and this appeal must be 
dismissed. 

Rigby, L.J., and Vaughan Williams, L.J., concurred. 

144. High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench Division. 

Before Kidley and Bigham, JJ. May 16, 1900. 

A Magistrate acting under section 47 of the Public Health 
(London) Act, 1891, must decide whether any article of food is 
unsound or unwholesome or unfit for food of man, but the 
question whether the goods are exposed for sale is not one 
for the Magistrates but for the Medical Officer of Health. 

Thomas v. Van Os. 

This was an appeal by way of a special case from the 
decision of the Magistrate sitting at the Thames Police Court, 
the question raised being whether, before a Magistrate acting 



LEGAL CASES 421 

under section 47 of the Public Health (London) Act, 1891, 
condemns an article as being unsound or unwholesome, or 
unfit for the food of man, it is necessary that the Magistrate 
should have before him evidence that the goods were intended 
for the food of man. In July of last year an application was 
made to the Magistrate to condemn 117 tubs of strawberries. 
The Magistrate refused the application on the ground that 
there was no evidence before him that the strawberries were 
intended for the food of man. A rule nisi was then obtained 
directing him to state a case, and this rule was made absolute 
on January 11, 1900. 

From the case as stated the following facts appeared : 
The appellant was the Medical Officer of Health for the 
district of Limehouse. On July 17, 1899, he saw a van in 
Devonport Street, Batcliffe, containing the fruit, which upon 
examination he found to be unsound and unwholesome, and 
unfit for the food of man. The strawberries were sent to the 
defendant from Holland under contract with one Van Nanien, 
and on arrival in London the defendant had ordered a carman 
to convey them to Messrs. John Moir, Limited, of Brook 
Street, Katcliffe, who on seeing them refused to take them. 
The defendant admitted that the strawberries were unfit for 
the food of man. The Medical Officer of Health, acting under 
section 47 of the Public Health (London) Act, 1891, caused 
them to be brought before the Magistrate, who refused to 
condemn them on the ground that there was no evidence that 
the fruit was intended for the food of man, or sold, or exposed 
for sale, or deposited for the purpose of sale at the time of the 
seizure. He held that when Messrs. John Moir refused to 
take the fruit any intention of applying them for the purposes 
of food or sale was exhausted. In the absence of such evi- 
dence he held that he had no jurisdiction to make any order 
of condemnation. 

B. D. Muir, for the appellant, contended that there was 
ample evidence that the strawberries were intended for the 
food of man, being deposited in a van for the purpose of sale ; 
that the defendant was unaware that Messrs. John Moir had 



422 

refused them, and that the intention to sell continued after 
such refusal. He further argued that the question whether 
the goods were exposed for sale was not one for the Magistrate, 
but for the Medical Officer of Health. He cited White v< 
Eedfern (5 Q.B.D., 15) ; Vintner v. Hind (10 Q.B.D., 63) ; In 
re Bater and Birkenhead Corporation (1893, 2 Q.B., 77). 

Ridley, J., in giving judgment, said that section 47 of the 
Act defined the powers of the Medical Officer of Health. He 
might enter upon the premises of the defendant and inspect 
and examine any article intended for the food of man. It was 
obvious that as a preliminary to putting his powers in force 
the Medical Officer of Health must make up his mind whether 
the articles examined came within the description in section 
47 that is, whether they were intended for the food of man 
or exposed for sale. Having made up his mind on that question 
his duty was to examine the articles. If he found them unsound 
or unwholesome, or unfit for the food of man, then, and not till 
then, the functions of the Magistrate came into operation. 
The Magistrate must then decide whether the articles were in 
fact unsound, unwholesome, or unfit for the food of man, and 
having decided that, his further duties were merely ministerial. 
The question whether the articles were intended for the food 
of man was, at this stage of the proceedings, immaterial, and 
did not become material until sub-section 2 of section 47 came 
into operation, and the person exposing the goods for sale was 
charged on summons for an offence under the Act. The case 
of White v. Redfern (5 Q.B.D., 15) was properly decided, and 
covered this case in principle. 

Bigham, J., concurring, the case was remitted to the 
Magistrate, with an intimation that the strawberries ought to 
have been condemned. 

Appeal allowed. 

145. Shutt v. Stockton Corporation. January 28, 1901. 

Before Mr. Charles Mellor (umpire) and Messrs. C. H. M, 
Wharton and A. W. Bairstow (arbitrators). 

In arbitration Public Health Act, 1875, section 308. 



LEGAL CASES 423 

On January 28, 1901, Mr. Charles Mellor, barrister, sat as 
umpire with Mr. C. H. M. Wharton, barrister (Manchester;) 
as arbitrator for the Corporation, and Mr. A. W. Bairstow, 
barrister (Leeds) as arbitrator for the claimant, to hear and 
decide a claim for damages by Mr. Langle Shutt, Stockton 
and West Hartlepool, for 4QL 13s. lid, against the Stockton 
Corporation in respect of the seizure of a carcass of beef 
alleged to be unfit for human food, which the claimant denied 
was unsound. Mr. Langley appeared for the claimant, and 
Mr. Luck, barrister, Darlington (instructed by the Town Clerk), 
for the Corporation. 

Mr. Langley said that the claim for compensation was 
under section 308 of the Public Health Act, 1875, on the 
grounds : (1) That the carcass was a perfectly healthy one ; 
(2) that the seizure was illegal being made by the Assistant 
Inspector ; and (3) that the Corporation had not allowed 
sufficient time for the carcass to be examined by experts. On 
behalf of Mr. Shutt, he asked for 491. 13s. lid, damages, 
being 12Z. 3s. lid cost of beast, and 371. 10s. in respect of 
consequent loss of business in the nine months that had since 
elapsed. 

The details of the case were as follows: On Thursday 
morning, April 5, 1900, Mr. Thomas W. Agar, the Assistant 
Inspector of Nuisances, visited the claimant's slaughter-house, 
and in it found what he considered a graped carcass of beef, 
the condition of which was thus described by Dr. Home (the 
Medical Officer of Health) and the Assistant Inspector : The 
midriff had been removed with the exception of a narrow strip 
attached to the ribs on each side, and known as the ' skirting.' 
The off-side skirting measured 16 inches by 2f inches, and its 
abdominal surface was covered for 20 square inches with 
tubercles from ^ inch to inch in diameter. On the adjacent 
parietal peritoneum was an oval area, 28 square inches in 
extent, of inflammation, with numerous tubercles. The near- 
side skirting exhibited a similar tuberculous area of 12 square 
inches, with an inflamed tuberculous patch, 10 square inches 



424 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

in extent, on the adjacent parietal peritoneum. The mesenteric 
glands were enlarged and tuberculous, and the tripe was 
inflamed and covered with numerous tubercles. The liver and 
kidneys were not examined, having been taken away to West 
Hartlepool. Both lungs were affected with miliary tuberculosis, 
and were congested at the apices, and the bronchial glands 
were enlarged and tuberculosed. 

The Assistant Inspector told the slaughterman that the 
Medical Officer of Health would have to see the carcass, and 
refused to allow the lungs to be destroyed and the rest to pass. 
Later in the day the owner inquired at the office what was to 
be done with the carcass, and asked the Assistant Inspector, 
(Mr. Agar) why he had reported the case to the Medical 
Officer of Health, and not to his (Agar's) master, meaning 
Mr. Crowther, the Chief Inspector, ' because Mr. Crowther 
knows as much about meat as any doctor.' Agar replied that 
Mr. Crowther was not his master, and had nothing to do with 
the case. The same afternoon, by direction of the Medical 
Officer of Health, the Chief Inspector (Mr. Crowther) examined 
the carcass and said to the owner : ' This is the finest beast you 
have had since Christmas and the best nourished,' and reported 
in writing to the Medical Officer of Health as follows : 

' The body itself is good solid beef, and firm to the touch ; 
on the open and closed side of the abdomen, and above the 
diaphragm, are small patches of inflammation, with a few 
tubercles forming on the outer surface. The heart is in a good 
healthy condition, lungs slightly congested at apex, with 
tubercles scattered over surface ; kidney in healthy condition : 
tripe had inflamed surface. There was no liver.' 

At 9.45 A.M. on Friday, April 6, the Medical Officer ex- 
amined the carcass, &c., pronounced it unsound and unfit for 
food, and instructed the Inspector to carefully measure up the 
affected parts, and to get a Magistrate's order for destruction, 
which was done about 3 P.M., the order being made out in the 
name, of Mr. Agar, the Assistant Inspector. Subsequently the 
Medical Officer of Health instructed him to let the carcass 



LEGAL CASES 425 

remain till seen by the Butchers' Association's inspectors. At 
10 A.M. on Saturday, April 7, the Assistant Inspector called at 
the slaughter-house, and found that a strip two-thirds of the 
length of the off-side skirting and about f inch wide had been 
cut away, together with the tubercles, &c., upon it ; also that 
structures round the windpipe, close to the apex of the lungs, 
had been removed. He reported the matter to the Medical 
Officer of Health, who, after conference with the Town Clerk, 
ordered him about noon on April 7, to take away and destroy 
the carcass, which he then did. 

The facts were subsequently discussed by the Sanitary 
Committee and the Town Council, and a minute was recorded 
on May 14, 1900, that the carcass was unfit for food, but that 
no further steps be taken in the matter. 

In support of his claim, Mr. L. Shutt stated that the 
animal in question ' was a very grand young beast ' it was 
the second best of four, for which he paid 12?. 10s. each. It 
looked very healthy, and ate and drank well ; the flesh was 
not soft and flabby, and there were no signs of tuberculosis. 
He gave evidence as to his subsequent loss of business, but 
admitted he kept no books. J. Hutchinson (slaughterman), 
Messrs. Thomas Eobinson, Councillor John Borrow (butcher), 
and William Ayre (meat-salesman) also stated that there were 
no signs whatever of tuberculosis, but each had noticed a 
slight discoloration of the skirting on one side, the result of a 
bruise. 

Mr. John Brand, butcher, said he was a member of the 
Meat Trades Association, and had laid the facts before the 
Federation. The carcass was of good quality, firm and bright, 
there was no sign of tubercle, and it was quite fit for food. 
One lung was slightly knotty, which might have been due to 
cold or it might be from tuberculosis. The discoloration on 
the diaphragm was a blood-stain which had ' run down and 
dried in,' and might have been caused by concussion producing 
internal injury. He had a key of the slaughter-house during 
the alleged tampering, and denied that it had taken place. 



426 PRESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

Agar told him that the slaughterman had another key. He 
asked Agar (the Assistant Inspector) to have a portion of the 
diaphragm put into spirits, but he refused. For the Corpora- 
tion it was asserted that the animal was suffering from gene- 
ralized tuberculosis, that the seizure was justified and regular, 
the Assistant Inspector having acted under the orders of the 
Medical Officer of Health, as his assistant, and that the 
claimant had sufficient opportunity to obtain expert evidence 
had he desired to do so, and would have had still longer if the 
carcass had not been tampered with. 

Mr. Thomas W. Agar stated that he was appointed in 
January 1899, Inspector of Nuisances for the east district of 
the town, to act under the direction of the Chief Inspector. 
On February 13, 1899, a resolution was passed by the Sanitary 
Committee that both the Assistant and the Chief Inspectors were 
to act under the directions of the Medical Officer of Health. He 
had received no intimation that this latter resolution had never 
been confirmed. He never consulted Crowther. He testified 
in detail to the condition and seizure of the carcass as above 
described, and to his conversations with the owner and his repre- 
sentatives. Dr. Home elaborated the Inspector's description, 
and said it was a case of generalized tuberculosis. He was 
positive that there was miliary tuberculosis of both lungs, and 
there were tuberculous lesions on both the pleura and peri- 
toneum. Either of these conditions rendered the carcass unfit 
for food. He asked to see the liver, as it corresponded in 
position to the larger inflamed patch on the diaphragm, but 
was told it had been sold. He was asked whether his relations 
with the Chief Inspector (Mr. Crowther) were strained, but 
Mr. Wharton (arbitrator) did not see how that affected the 
case. Mr. Crowther had told him that he would not condemn 
the carcass. 

Mr. W. C. Crowther, the Chief Inspector, said he had had 
fifteen years' experience, and had examined all the cases until 
Mr. Agar came. At Dr. Home's request he carefully examined 
this carcass on Friday, April 6. He considered it fit for 



LEGAL CASES 427 

human food, and told the Sanitary Committee he would not 
have condemned it. He had read the recommendation of the 
Royal Commission, and did not consider that, tested by these 
recommendations, his written report to the Medical Officer in 
itself furnished sufficient grounds for condemnation. 

Several Medical Officers of Health gave evidence in support 
of Dr. Home's views, and on February 11 the arbitrators 
decided : ' That the claimant was in default in respect of the 
carcass, and suffered no damage from its destruction, that the 
carcass was unsound, and unfit for the food of man, and was, 
in consequence, properly and lawfully destroyed.' The claimant 
was ordered to pay the costs of the award, and the arbitrators' 
and umpire's fees, and 20Z. to the Corporation on account of 
their costs. 

146. Important decision under Sale of Goods Act, 1893. ' 
High Court of Justice. Court of Appeal, February 1905. 
Infected milk. Frost v. Aylesbury Dairy Co. 

' When milk is sold by a dairy company for consumption as 
food there is an implied warranty on the part of the vendors 
that it is reasonably Jit for that purpose, and they will be held 
liable for damages caused by reason of its being infected, 
although such infection was latent and not discoverable by 
ordinary care and skill. 

' This was an appeal by the defendants, asking for a new 
trial or judgment in an action tried before Grantham, J., and a 
special jury. The action was brought by the plaintiff to 
recover damages owing to the illness and death of his wife 
from typhoid fever, caused, as he alleged, by the milk which 
was supplied to him by the defendants being contaminated 
with the germs of typhoid fever. The jury found a verdict 
for the plaintiff for 106Z., the expenses to which the plaintiff 
had been put in consequence of the illness and death of his 
wife, and judgment was entered for him accordingly. 

' MacMorran, K.C., and W. Mackenzie appeared for the 
defendants, and contended that under section 14 (1) of the 
1 Public Health, April 1905. 



428 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

Sale of Goods Act, 1893, the defendants did not impliedly 
warrant that the milk was free from infection, as no care and 
skill on their part could have discovered whether it was infected 
or not. They also contended that the verdict was against the 
weight of the evidence, and that the Judge at the trial had 
misdirected the jury, and introduced topics of prejudice against 
the defendants. 

'Duke, K.C., and Holman Gregory, for the plaintiff, were 
not called upon, and the Court dismissed the appeal. 

' The Master of the Eolls said that the first point taken was 
that, admitting that the milk was the cause of the typhoid 
fever, upon the facts of the case there was no actionable wrong 
on the part of the defendants. The question was whether, in 
the particular circumstances, the case had been brought 
within section 14, sub-section 1, of the Sale of Goods Act, 1893. 
It was said that the buyer had not made known to the seller 
the particular purpose for which the goods were required, so 
as to show that he relied on the seller's skill or judgment. They 
had not evidence in any precise detail of the inception of the 
relationship between the plaintiff and the defendants. They 
began with the fact that the plaintiff was dealing with the 
defendants. The result was that milk was purchased by the 
plaintiff from the defendants. That involved a contract for the 
supply of an article of food, namely, milk. The purpose for 
which the milk was supplied was obviously for consumption 
as an article of food. It did not require any evidence to prove 
the particular purpose for which the milk was supplied. The 
jury must be taken to have found that. Where was the 
condition so as to show that the buyer relied on the seller's 
skill or judgment fulfilled? If any seller ever did inform the 
mind of a buyer of his special care as a seller, as an induce- 
ment to the would-be buyer to deal with him, those defendants 
did. The book, which had been called the pass-book, which 
was supplied to the plaintiff, was full of particulars of their 
skill and knowledge in the matter. It contained paragraphs 
headed " Milk in relation to Tuberculosis and other Diseases," 
stating the precautions taken to ensure that only pure milk, 



LEGAL CASES 429 

free from all germs of disease and free from adulteration/ was 
supplied. One paragraph related to " medical inspection," 
another to " milk analysis," another to "veterinary surgeon." 
The buyer could not escape being permeated with the sense 
that he was secured against the possibility of danger if he 
bought the defendants' milk. Milk, therefore, for the supply 
of the plaintiff and his family was tendered by a seller with all 
his knowledge and skill. It was then said that the buyer 
could not rely upon the seller's skill or judgment in a case 
where no skill or judgment could have found out the defect. 
That was a contention that a person could not become liable 
for an undiscoverable latent defect. The law upon the point 
was the same now as it was at Common Law before the Sale 
of Goods Act, 1893. That point had been dealt with and 
decided by the Court of Appeal in Randall v. Newson (2 Q.B.D. 
102), where it was held that on the sale of an article for a 
specific purpose there was a warranty by the vendor that it was 
presumably fit for that purpose, and that there was no excep- 
tion as to latent undiscoverable defects. Then, with regard to 
the alleged misdirection, it was a well-established rule that, 
even if there was misdirection, still, if that misdirection did not 
affect the result of the trial, the Court would not be justified in 
sending the case down for a new trial. The case must there- 
fore be dismissed. Lord Justice Mathew delivered judgment 
to the same effect, in the course of which he said that there 
was no reason whatever for any reflection upon the defendant 
company. They had imposed stringent conditions upon the 
farmers from whom they obtained milk, but it was obviously 
impossible, where the milk was drawn from different parts of the 
country, to see that each farmer complied in every respect with 
their conditions and requirements. He (the Lord Justice) 
regretted that the use of the word " Aylesbury " in the name of 
the defendant company was reflected upon by the learned Judge. 
He desired to say that he did not concur in these reflections, 
and in his opinion the defendant company came well out of the 
inquiry. 

' Lord Justice Cozens-Hardy agreed.' 



APPENDIX I 

REPORT OF THE DEPAETMENTAL COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO 
INQUIRE INTO THE USE OF PRESERVATIVES AND COLOUR- 
ING MATTERS IN THE PRESERVATION AND COLOURING 
OF FOODS 

THE conclusions arrived at by this Committee are as follows : 

1. ' The medical evidence, speaking generally, comprises for the 
most part opinion arrived at after a general consideration of the 
issues involved, but such opinion was not always based directly upon 
fact. The physiological evidence consists of the citation of the results 
of more or less exact physiological experiments. But, unfortunately, 
in the majority of cases the conditions under which the experiments 
have been made have only partially imitated those conditions which 
obtain in the actual taking of preservatives by the human subject of 
all ages for indefinite periods of time. 

2. ' Further, even supposing that we were to assume that the 
physiological experiments which have been laid before us did imitate 
with sufficient exactness the actual conditions obtaining in the inquiry 
in point, they would certainly only do so in so far as relates to the 
use of one preservative during a given period of time. The facts, 
however, show that in ordinary life what actually occurs is the 
simultaneous ingestion of more than one preservative. A further 
condition, almost impossible of imitation by the physiological in- 
vestigator, is the consumption of these preservatives by all classes of 
invalids and by sucklings. The absolute effect of these substances 
upon sucklings is at present unknown, and it is also practically im- 
possible to infer with accuracy from facts at present ascertained what 
would be the effect of, for instance, formic aldehyde upon a patient 
suffering from uraemia. 

3. ' A factor still more subtle in its influence upon the question 
before us is idiosyncrasy. Certain individuals are extremely sensitive 
to certain drugs, and it appears that among these drugs must be 
reckoned at least one of the agents used as a preservative. Although 
legislation covering all possible idiosyncrasies would be too com- 
plicated to be practical, nevertheless, it must be pointed out that as 



432 PRESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

matters are at present, an individual possessing an idiosyncrasy with 
regard to the poisonous action of boracic acid would not be able to 
profit even by his own experienQe. For since the addition of this 
substance to food is not declared, he might be continually made ill 
by the repeated involuntary consumption of articles of food con- 
taining it. 

4. ' The actual material upon which to base trustworthy con- 
clusions has not existed heretofore, in that the declaration of pre- 
servatives, and also a regulation of, and notification of, the amount 
thereof present in any preserved food must be regarded as a necessary 
preliminary to any accurate observations or statistics upon the 
subject. Had declaration of preservatives been in force during 
recent years, we should probably now have been in possession 6f 
medical evidence more directly based upon fact than that which we 
have had laid before us. 

5. ' Notwithstanding the fact that trustworthy data as to actual 
injury are but few, there is evidence pointing to the probability that 
such injury does at times accrue. We cannot overlook the danger 
to which the uncontrolled use of drugs in the food of the population 
may be likely to give rise. 

6. ' Compounds of boracic acid have not been proved to be more 
hurtful than saltpetre to the consumer, yet saltpetre has been used 
from time immemorial in curing bacon, &c. The modern use of 
borax and boracic acid has enabled producers to dispense with a large 
proportion of common salt formerly necessary, thereby rendering 
bacon far milder to the palate, and protecting it from taint and fly- 
blow. 

7. ' Although the greater number of the witnesses disclaimed any 
knowledge that boracic acid or borax is actually injected into the 
carcasses, we are convinced from our own observations as well as 
from the testimony of certain witnesses, that these preservatives are 
used in the curing of hog products, ham having been found to contain 
amounts varying from 4 to 24 grains per pound, and bacon from 2| 
to 8| grains per pound. The use of boron preservatives, which began 
about twenty years ago, is now very general in the import trade in 
bacon and ham. No doubt they are exceedingly convenient, but that 
they are not indispensable is proved by the success of a large and 
well-known firm of exporters of Wiltshire bacon, which uses no 
antiseptics but salt and saltpetre. 

8. ' Concerning the physiological effects of the sulphites, a pre- 
servative often used by butchers, poultry dealers, and brewers, there 
has been no evidence laid before this Committee. It appears, how- 



APPENDIX I 433 

ever, that when sulphurous acid or its salts are added to organic 
compounds such as beer or butchers' meat, some is at once oxidized 
to sulphate, which may be regarded, at any rate in the amount 
present, as indifferent ; some attaches itself chemically to certain 
constituents of the food in question, and the compound formed is also 
innocuous ; a third portion remains as sulphurous acid, and it is this 
portion alone which is of permanent efficacy as an antiseptic. Con- 
cerning the effect of this moiety upon the consumer pharmacologists 
do not seem agreed, and further investigation is required before the 
sulphites can be regarded as either harmful or harmless. 

9. ' After very carefully weighing the evidence we have come to 
the conclusion that, as regards the trade in fresh and cured meat, 
fish, butter, margarine and other food substances in the consumption 
of which but small quantities of the antiseptic are taken into the 
system, there exists no sufficient reason for interfering to prevent the 
use of boron preservatives. Even butter, of which the imports from 
all countries, except Denmark, frequently contain boracic acid, is not 
consumed in such quantities by individuals as to convey more than 
a very moderate daily amount of the drug into the system. The 
evidence satisfies us that the amount of preservative corresponding 
to 0'5 per cent, of boracic acid is sufficient for the purpose of pre- 
serving butter. 

10. 'But the circumstances and considerations affecting the 
milk traffic are very different. Milk, a very perishable substance, 
peculiarly liable to bacterial contamination, forms a very large pro- 
portion of the daily food of the public. The nutrition of infants and 
young children depends greatly on the purity and abundance of the 
milk supply, and, seeing how frequently milk is prescribed for in- 
valids and convalescents, it is of the utmost importance that it 
should not be the vehicle of any unsuspected agent. While it is 
possible that milk containing boracic acid in sufficient quantity to 
act as a preservative (say 30 grains to the gallon) might be consumed 
to the amount of 4 or 5 pints a day, without harmful results, by 
most healthy children or adults, there is evidence pointing to an in- 
jurious effect of boracized milk upon the health of very young 
children. 

11. ' Moreover, there exists at present no guarantee against the 
addition of excessive amounts of preservative to milk. In 1896 the 
Medical Officer of Health for Birmingham estimated the amounts of 
boracic acid in a number of milk samples. Of these, one-half showed 
boracic acid in a proportion not exceeding 21 grains per gallon, in one 
fourth the proportion varied between 21 and 42 grains per gallon, while 

28 



434 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

in the remaining fourth it ranged from 42 up to 126 grains per gallon. 
Professor Blyth instances a sample of milk, purchased in Marylebone, 
containing boracic acid in the proportion of no less than 80 grains 
to the pint. This occurred in December 1899, and the witness 
assured us that from time to time he had found an equally high pro- 
portion in milk samples taken in summer. 

12. ' Clearly such random use of any drug in a food calls for regula- 
tion. At present milk may be subjected to several successive treat- 
ments with preservative before it reaches the consumer. The farmer 
or producer sometimes applies it ; so does the wholesale purveyor ; so 
does the retail dealer ; lastly, the domestic use of preservatives is 
increasing, and has become very general, and hence the milk may 
receive a fourth dose before it reaches the unsuspecting consumer. 

13. ' There is this further objection to the use of preservatives in 
the milk traffic, that they may be relied on to protect those engaged 
therein against the immediate results of neglect of scrupulous 
cleanliness. Under the influence of these preservatives milk may be 
exposed without sensible injury to conditions which otherwise would 
render it unsaleable. It may remain sweet to taste and smell and 
yet have incorporated disease germs of various kinds, whereof the 
activity may be suspended for a time by the action of the preservative, 
but may be resumed before the milk is digested. 

14. ' It has been put before us that it is not possible to supply 
large towns, especially London, with new milk without the aid of 
preservatives, but we have received abundant evidence to prove that 
this is no more than a matter of organization and system. No doubt the 
prohibition of preservatives in milk offered for sale would tend to the dis- 
advantage 'of small retailers who have no cold storage, but this is not a 
consideration which should stand in the way of a much-needed reform. 

' As to the feasibility of conducting the traffic in the largest towns 
without preservatives we have no doubt whatever. In Denmark the 
use of all preservatives in milk is strictly prohibited, and the prohibition 
is stringently enforced. Much of the milk consigned from the country 
to Copenhagen is conveyed in ice-wagons, or wagons otherwise 
specially adapted for the traffic, the property of purveying companies 
in the capital. 

15. ' It has been estimated that about 50 per cent, of the dairy- 
men of London use preservatives. One of the largest dairy 
companies in London (Welford Dairy Company, Ltd.) declined to 
furnish us with any information, but evidence was given by another 
large company (the Aylesbury Dairy Company, Ltd.) that they 
use no preservative whatever, either in milk, cream or butter. 



APPENDIX I 435 

16. ' Even more conclusive of the practicability of supplying the 
metropolis with milk unmixed with preservative was the evidence of 
Mr. T. Carrington Smith, who during a series of several years 
consigned milk to London from Mid- Staffordshire, a distance of 126 
miles, under a contract which prohibited him from the use of preserva- 
tives. The milk was carefully strained and cooled by means of 
water, precautions which the witness pronounced indispensable, and 
there never was any trouble from the milk going sour. Mr. Smith, 
who appeared on behalf of the Eoyal Agricultural Society, handed in 
letters from farmers, sending the milk from 500 to 1,500 cows daily to 
London from Faringdon and Didcot without the use of preservatives. 

17. ' In face of these facts we are of opinion that it is idle to 
pronounce it impossible to supply London with milk not artificially 
preserved. The business would be attended with some inconveni- 
ence at first, but we are impressed with the need for facing that 
inconvenience, and for rendering the vendors of milk containing 
preservatives subject to penalties under the Sale of Food and Drugs 
Act. Obviously the conditions under which milk is sometimes kept 
in the homes of the poor is likely to hasten the processes of decom- 
position, but we do not think this a sufficient argument in favour of 
the sale of chemically preservatized milk. 

18. ' In regard to cream the question is somewhat different. We 
are of opinion that, under present conditions, it would be difficult to 
maintain or increase the present supply of cream without the use of 
some preserving agent. The presence of a preservative is less objec- 
tionable in cream than in milk, because cream is usually consumed 
in much smaller quantities than milk ; but inasmuch as cream is now 
often prescribed for invalids and children instead of cod-liver oil, we 
consider that the obligation should be laid on the vendor of cream 
of notifying the presence, nature, and quantity of the preservative. 

19. ' One of the considerations which render it expedient to 
prohibit the use of any preservative in milk offered for sale, namely, 
the large quantity which may be taken into the system of the 
consumer, places, in our opinion, wine, cider, and temperance 
beverages upon a very similar footing. Moreover, while by far the 
greater proportion of preservatives used in the dairy industry 
consists of compounds of boron, a substance without any active toxic 
properties, it is otherwise with fermented and temperance drinks. 
The usual preservatives in these articles are salicylic acid and form- 
aldehyde, and although the quantity of each actually required is very 
small, it is often largely exceeded. 

20. ' Thus the Public Analyst of Blackpool, Blackburn, &c., found 



436 PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 

in sweetened lime-juice cordial, " consumed," as he said, " consider- 
ably at children's parties and such like festivities," amounts varying 
from 20 grains to 108 grains of salicylic acid per gallon. That the 
use of any preservative whatever in such drinks is unnecessary was 
proved to us by one of the largest manufacturers in this country, 
who stated that his firm never use them at all, although he considered 
that it would be convenient to do so. 

21. ' As stated above, we have not given attention to the prevalence 
of preservatives in beer, that matter having been threshed out so 
recently before the Beer Materials Committee, but in the manufacture 
of cider we found that the employment of salicylic acid is very 
general, both in the native and imported article. While one cider 
manufacturer told us that he used no preservative, another strongly 
advocated the use of salicylic acid. 

22. ' As regards wine, whether British or imported, we are of 
opinion that wine which cannot be made or kept without the use of a 
preservative had better not be offered for sale. We are confirmed in 
this view by the action of the Government of the chief wine-producing 
country in the world, namely, France, which by the law of January 11, 
1891, absolutely prohibited the use in wine of all preservatives 
(except chloride of sodium or common salt to the extent of 1 gramme 
per litre), and of all colouring matters whatever. 

23. ' In regard to the colouring matters of modern origin, while we 
are of opinion that articles of food are very much preferable in their 
natural colours, we are unable to see from the evidence received that 
any injurious results have been traced to their consumption. 
Undoubtedly some of the substances used to colour confectionery and 
sweetmeats are highly poisonous in themselves, but they are used in 
infinitesimal proportions, and before any individual had taken 
enough of colouring matter to injure him, his digestion would 
probably have been seriously disturbed by the substance which they 
were employed to adorn. 

24. ' The employment of copper sulphate to colour peas and other 
vegetables has been carefully considered by us. It is highly un- 
desirable that what is admittedly a poisonous substance should be 
used, even to the smallest extent, in connection with such food as 
may be consumed in considerable quantity. The public have got 
into their heads that vegetables ought to be green, and green they 
insist upon having them. Direct proof that vegetables containing 
copper are injurious to the consumer is from the nature of the case 
difficult to obtain, and we must admit that we have not succeeded in 
obtaining it. There is evidence pointing to the conclusion that the 



APPENDIX I 437 

copper, when added to the vegetables, forms a compound which is not 
easily soluble in the human economy. There is, however, evidence 
of a contrary character, and it is not clear to us that the whole of the 
copper added becomes, or remains, insoluble under all conditions. 
Be this as it may, recent events have so incontestably demonstrated 
the serious and widespread mischief which may result from the 
consumption of food and drink, other than sweetmeats, containing 
even minimal quantities of poisonous metallic substances, that we 
are strongly of opinion that such poisonous substances should be 
rigorously excluded. 

25. ' There is such a wide choice of colouring matters suitable for 
the dairy trade, that no inconvenience would arise from restricting it 
to the use of innocuous substances as these may be denned and per- 
mitted in the manner hereafter suggested. But the same reason 
which we have given for the prohibition of preservative in milk 
offered for sale, namely, the large quantity thereof which may be 
consumed by an individual, appears to render it highly undesirable 
that any colouring matter should be permitted in milk. There is this 
further consideration, that milk is sold as an absolutely raw, un- 
manufactured article, of which the purchaser is entitled to be aware 
of the natural colour, and to draw his own conclusions therefrom as 
to quality. 

26. ' In the butter trade, and still more so in the cheese trade, 
artificial colouring has long been established. Highly coloured 
goods find favour in some markets, uncoloured or faintly coloured 
goods in others. We have not found that in the interest of the 
consumer any interference is necessary with the customs of the trade 
in this respect. 

27. ' In regard to margarine, we have to deal with a cheap and 
relatively inferior article invariably coloured to resemble a more 
costly and superior article, and probably the only means of protecting 
the public from imposition would be to prohibit the introduction of 
any colouring matter into margarine which shall cause it to resemble 
butter. Be the regulations as to the sale of margarine under 
declaration what they may, they cannot protect the customer who 
calls for bread and butter at an hotel or restaurant from being served 
with bread and margarine, and paying for it at the rate charged for 
the higher article. But as the margarine may be assumed to be a 
perfectly wholesome article of diet, it does not fall within the terms 
of our reference to make any recommendation upon a practice which 
is not attended with risk to the public health. 

28. ' We wish to state as our opinion that the departmental 



438 PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 

machinery for controlling the preparation and conservation of food 
and drink in this country is not as complete as could be wished. 
The obvious fact has been referred to by several witnesses, that new 
methods of preserving, and new preserving agents and colouring 
matters, will continue to be introduced. We regard it as a matter of 
concern for the public health that the nature of such substances or 
processes should be critically examined, and their effects upon the 
human economy, if possible, ascertained. 

' Recommendations. Based upon the foregoing conclusions, we 
beg to make the following recommendations : 

' (a.) That the use of formaldehyde or formalin, or preparations 
thereof, in foods or drinks be absolutely prohibited, and that salicylic 
acid be not used in a greater proportion than 1 gr. per pint in liquid 
food and 1 gr. per pound in solid food. Its presence in all cases to 
be declared. 

' (b.} That the use of any preservative or colouring matter whatever 
in milk offered for sale in the United Kingdom be constituted an 
offence under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act. 

' (c.) That the only preservative which it shall be lawful to use 
in cream be boric acid or mixtures of boric acid and borax, and in 
amount not exceeding 0'25 per cent, expressed as boric acid. The 
amount of such preservative to be notified by a label upon the vessel. 

' (d.) That the only preservative permitted to be used in butter and 
margarine be boric acid or mixtures of boric acid and borax, to be 
used in proportions not exceeding 0'5 per cent, expressed as boric 
acid. 

' (e.) That in the case of all dietetic preparations intended for the 
use of invalids or infants, chemical preservatives of all kinds be 
prohibited. 

' (/.) That the use of copper salts in the so-called greening of 
preserved foods be prohibited. 

' (g.) That means be provided, either by the establishment of a 
separate Court of Reference or by the imposition of more direct 
obligation on the Local Government Board, to exercise supervision 
over the use of preservatives and colouring matters in food, and to 
prepare schedules of such as may be considered inimical to the 
public health.' 



APPENDIX II 

LAW AND PEACTICE IN CERTAIN FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND 
THE COLONIES AS TO PRESERVATIVES AND COLOURING 
MATTERS IN FOOD 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY. No special law obtains. Ministerial decrees 
are, however, in force prohibiting the use of certain well-known 
preservatives and colouring matters in foods. Generally at present 
exceptions to prohibition of preservatives are made only in respect 
of salt in butter to 5 per cent., and both salt and saltpetre to un- 
limited extent in meat preservation. But in milk, salicylic acid, 
borax, boracic acid, and soda are forbidden. 

In Austria-Hungary a decree of 1866 forbids in food the use of 
any colouring matter which contains metals (iron excepted), gamboge, 
picric acid or aniline. But in 1895 a large number of aniline dye- 
stuffs which do not contain arsenic were permitted to be used for 
sweetmeats, liquors, &c. ; specimens of such colours to be yearly 
submitted to official examination. 

BELGIUM. A decree of 1894 prohibits absolutely the use of pre- 
servatives in milk. 

FRANCE. By the provisions of the law of January 11, 1891, Art. 2, 
the use in wine of products such as sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, 
salicylic, or boric acids is prohibited. 

By an order dated February 7, 1881, the employment of salicylic 
acid as a preservative was prohibited. 

In a circular to the Prefects, dated October 18, 1899, the Minister 
of the Interior prohibited the sale of foods containing formalin. 

GERMANY. None of the following substances, nor mixtures con- 
taining any of them, are to be used in the preparation of wines or 
vinous liquors destined for human consumption, nor to be added to 
such liquors subsequently : soluble aluminous salts (alum, &c.), com- 
pounds of barium, boric acid, glycerine, kermes berries, compounds 
of magnesium, salicylic acid, impure spirits (i.e., containing pure 
amyl alcohol), impure starch sugar (non-technically pure), compounds 
of strontium, and colouring tar-stuffs. 



440 PRESEKVATIVES IN FOOD 

NETHERLANDS. In the Netherlands, by the law of 1889, butter 
must not contain, any foreign ingredients except salt and colouring 
matter. 

SWITZERLAND. In the Canton of Zurich a law of 1896 prohibits 
the employment of all preservatives save cooking salt and saltpetre, 
but borax continues to be largely used. 

UNITED STATES. No maximum limit laid down as to preserva- 
tives, but those having no marked toxic character not absolutely 
prohibited. All packages to bear testimony to amount and name, 
if any, used. 

As to colouring matters, no maximum limit fixed. No colouring 
matter to be used unless each package bears testimony to name and 
amount. No absolute prohibition of any colouring matter which has 
no marked toxic character. 

Legislation in the matter of the use of preservatives was passed 
during the year 1901 in the State of Massachusetts, in virtue of which 
the quantity and nature of the preservative is to be declared in the 
case of all articles of food and drink to which an antiseptic substance 
is added. 

Exception is made in the case of table salt, saltpetre, cane-sugar, 
alcohol, vinegar, spices, the natural product of the smoking process 
for smoked goods, and where small quantities of suitable preserva- 
tive substances are dusted on the surface of dried fish and meat. 

In the State of Pennsylvania it is a demeanour to manufacture, 
sell, consign, offer for sale, or have in possession with intent to sell, 
any article of food or drink which contains formaldehyde, sulphurous 
acid or sulphites, boric acid or borates, salicylic acid or salicylates, 
saccharin, dulcin, glucin, B.-naphthol, abrastol, asaprol, fluorides, 
fluoborates, fluosilicates, or other fluorine compounds, and all other 
preservatives injurious to health. Common salt, saltpetre, vinegar, 
and the condimental preservatives such as turmeric, mustard, pepper 
and other spices are permitted. The penalty for violation of the Act 
is a fine of not less than 12Z. nor more than 20Z., with costs, or im- 
prisonment not exceeding 60 days, or both. 

BRITISH CANADA. The law does not prevent the use of preserva- 
tives and colouring matters in food unless they are injurious to 
health. 



PLATES 



442 



PLATE I 

FIG. 1. Clump of actinomyces. x 800. After Klein. 

2. Nodule due to actinomyces from tongue of cow. x 300. After Klein. 

3. Actinomyces, section of nodule, x 120. 

4. Actinomyces in pus. x 120. 

5. Trichina spiralis in muscle. Longitudinal section, x 5. 

6. Trichina spiralis in muscle. Transverse section, x 5. 



PLATE I 




444 



PLATE II 

FIG. 1. Trichina spiralis in muscle. Longitudinal section, x 125. Showing 
the trichina encysted with fat-cells at the poles. 

2. Trichina spiralis in muscle. Transverse section, x 125. 

3. Trichina spiralis with cyst partially calcined, x 80. 

4. Trichina spiralis with cyst completely calcined, x 80. 



PLATE II 




2. 




4. 




446 



PLATE III 

FIG. 1. Tuenia mediocanellata, head of. x 35. 

2. Cysticercus bovis (beef bladder worm) with scolex extended. After 

Leuckart. x 4. 

3. Cysticercus cellulosae (hog bladder worm) with scolex included in 

vesicle. After Leuckart. x 4. 

4. Cysticercus cellulosse with scolex extended. After Leuckart. x 4. 

5. Scolex of cysticercus cellulosse showing booklets, x 35. 

6. Bothriocephalus latus, slightty reduced. After Leuckart. 

7. Bothriocephalus latus, one of proglottides, magnified, showing repro- 

ductive organs. After Leuckart. 

8. Bothriocephalus latus, larvae of. After Leuckart. 

9. Bothriocephalus latus, head or scolex of, showing slit -like sucker, 

and absence of booklets. After Leuckart. x 5. 

10. Tsenia echinococcus. After Leuckart. x 5. 

11. Cyst of Echinococcus polymorphus, showing brood capsules (slightly 

reduced). After Leuckart. 



PLATE III 




448 



PLATE IV 

FIG. 1. Echinococcus polyrnorphus. Brood capsule with scolices. After 

Leuckart. x 5. 
2. Echinococcus polyrnorphus, scolex of, with invaginated suckers and 

booklets. After Leuckart. x 150. 

8. Echinococcus polyrnorphus, scolex with suckers and booklets ex- 
tended. After Leuckart. x 150. 

4. Cysts of Echinococcus veterinorum, portion of, from liver of ox, 

showing scolices. x 35. 

5. Cysticercus of hare, head of, showing booklets and suckers, x 60. 

6. Scolex of Echinococcus veterinorum. x 250. 



PLATE IV 



i. 




2. 








450 



PLATE V 

FIG. 1. Distoma hepaticum. Liver fluke, x 1. 

2. Distoma lanceolatum. After Nicholson, x 6. 

3. Distoma lanceolatum. x 1. 

4. Pentastomum denticulatum, from liver of hare, x 30. 

5. Coccidia oviforme. Portion of bile duct of rabbit. 

6. Coccidia oviforme. Portion of bile duct of rabbit, sporocysts. 

x250. 

7. Miescher's sac, from muscle of pig. x 30. 

8. Deposit from unclean milk. 

A. Portion of wing scale of insect, x 250. 

B. Fragments of hay, straw, &c. x 250. 
c. Cotton fibre, x 250. 

D. Fat globules, x 500. 

E. Oidium lactis. x 250. 

F. Pus cells (?). x 500. 

G. H, K. Micrococci and spores of fungi, x 500. 
L. Bacilli and spirilla, x 500. 

M. Oidium albicans. After Grawitz. x 250. Introduced for 
comparison with Oidium lactis. 



PLATE V 




452 



PLATE VI 

FIG. 1. Vibrio tritici (red blight of wheat), x 80. 

2. Tyroglyphus farinse (meal mites), x 80. 

3. Penicillium glaucum (green mould). 

A. Constricted spores on sterigmata. x 250. 

B. Constricted spores on sterigmata, after boiling thirty minutes 

in syrup, 
c. Typical head of penicillium. x 75. 

4. Aspergillus (eurotiurn) glaucus (blue mould), x 250. 

A. Hyphae bearing sexual reproductive organs. 

B. Mature perithecium. 

5. Aspergillus (eurotium) glaucus. Thick hyphae bearing asexual 

reproductive organs (sterigmata). x 250. 
A. Spore, x 750. 



PLATE VI 




454 



PLATE VII. 

FIG. 1. Mucor mucedo (white mould). 

A. Mycelia and sporangia, x 15. 

B. Mycelia and sporangia, x 150. 

c. Hyphae showing columella and remains of sporangia after spores 
have been dispersed, x 120. 

2. Crushed Darnel seed (Lolium temulentum), diseased. 

A. Testa, or seed coat, x 125. 

B. Husk, x 125. 
c. Awn. x 125. 

D. Proteid cells, x 125. 

E. Starch granules, x 250. 

F. Teleuto-spores of Puccinia graminis. x 300. 

G. Conidial spores of ergot, x 300. 

H. One of cells of testa, showing structure of walls, x 500. 

3. Spores of Ustilago segetum (smut on wheat grain), x 500. 

4. Spores and hyphae of Uredo fretida (bunt of corn), x 500. 



PLATE VII 




4. 



456 



PLATE VIII 

FIG. 1. Wheat flour, damaged by exposure to damp, x 300. 

A. Starch granules. 

B. Mass of gluten. 
c. Yeast cells. 

D. Fungoid growth, resembling Oidium lactis, but larger. 
B. Particles of dust. 
The whole swarming with bacteria, chiefly large bacilli. 

2. Crushed wheat grain. 

A. Testa. x!25. 

B. Apical hair of grain, x 125. 
c. Starch, x 250. 

D. Layer of proteid cells immediately under testa, x 125. 

E. One of cells of testa, showing structure of walls, x 250. 

3. Maize affected by Ustilago maydis. 

A. Disorganized parenchymatous tissue, and spores, x 125. 

B. Spore of Ustilago maydis. 600. 

4. Jam made from mouldy fruit. 

A. Cells from fruit pulp, x 75. 

B. Penicillium, aspergillus, and other moulds showing mycelia and 

sporangia, x 75. 
c. Mould, spores of. x 600. 



PLATE VIII 



1. 




4- 



INDEX 



ABDOMINAL tuberculosis due to milk, 

267 
Abrastol, or asaprol, as a preservative, 

95 

detection of, 344 
prohibition in America of, 440 
A earns farina, 297, 300 
Acetanilide, poisoning by, 185 
Acetic acid, arsenic in, 193 
Acidity in milk, estimation of, 290 
Actinomycosis, 220, 227 
in cattle and pigs, 227 
examination for, 228 
Adults, effects of benzoic acid on, 86 
effects of borax on, 50 
effects of boric acid on, 39, 44, 50 
effects of copper salts on, 177, 179, 

181, 401, 408 
effects of fluorides of ammonium on, 

88 

effects of formic acid on, 92 
effects of formic aldehyde on, 66 
effects of hydrofluoric acid on, 87 
effects of salicylic acid on, 80, 81, 

83 

effects of sulphites on, 72 
Aerated waters, detection and estimation 

of copper in, 365 
lead in, 201 

detection and estimation, 

365 

Agaricus campestris, 294 
Air, exclusion of, as a means of pre- 
servation, 6, 164, 165 
Albumoses as a cause of food-poisoning, 

312 

Alcohol, action on bacteria, 92 
as a preservative, 92, 93, 155 
in temperance beverages, 158 
Alcoholic beverages, mode of production 

of, 151 

pasteurization of, 151 
sourness in, 151 
Ales and beers, 16 
Algae, action of copper salts on, 177 
Alum, dose of, 89 
in bread, 89 



Alum in hams, 89, 166 
in meat, 166 
in vegetables, 89 
in wine, prohibited in Germany, 

439 

pharmacological action of, 89 
Amanita plialloides, 294, 296 
America, action taken with regard to 
benzoic and salicylic acid in food 
by the Treasury of the United 
States of, 84 
laws relating to preservatives and 

colouring matters in, 440 
Ammonium acetate, as a meat preserva- 
tive, 89 

fluoride, as a preservative, 88 
dose of, 88 
in beer, 89 
Amylopsin, effects of boron compounds 

on, 27 

effects of formic aldehyde on, 61 
effects of saltpetre on, 15 
Anabcena, action of copper salts on, 

177 
Anchovies, red lead in, 173 

oxide of iron in, 176 
Anchovy paste, sulphites in, 70, 172 
Aniline compounds, used for colouring 

foods, 173, 184 

pharmacological action of, 185 
prohibited in Austria-Hungary, 

439 

Sec also Coal-tar dyes 
yellow, poisoning by, 186 
Annatto, as a colouring matter, 174 
in dairy produce, 175 
in margarine, 175 
trade preparations of, 175 
Anthrax, 221 

animals affected by, 222 
examination of a carcass for, 222 
human infection by, 221, 223 
Antimony, detection and estimation of, 

367 

excretion of, 199 
in bottled fruits, 200 
in mineral waters, 198, 200 



460 



PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 



Antimony in rubber, 198, 200 

prohibition as a colouring matter 
in Germany of, 186 

symptoms of poisoning by, 199 
Antipyrin, poisoning by, 185 
Arcticanus, 16 
Armenian bole, 176 

arsenic in, 193 
Arsenic, action of moulds on, 198 

dangerous dose of, 194 

diminished birth-rate due to, 195 

elimination of, 197 

in acetic acid, 193 

in alkaline carbonates, 193 

in Armenian bole, 193 

in beer, 191 

detection of, 357 
epidemics due to, 191, 194 
estimation of, 358 

in boric acid and borates, 193 

in calcium chloride, 359 

in caramel, 193 

in chicory, 194 

in chocolate, 194 

in citric acid, 193 

in coal, estimation of, 363 

in coal-tar dyes, 194 

in colouring matters, 173 

in confectionery, 173, 193 

in enamels, 194 

in fuel, 192 

estimation of, 363 

in gelatine, 194 

in glucose, 191, 193 

in glycerine, 193 

in golden syrup, 193 

in hair, 197 

in hops, 192 

estimation of, 361, 362 

in hydrochloric acid, 192, 358 

in invert sugar, 193 

in jam, 193 

in lime, 359 

in liquorice, 194 

in malt, 192 

estimation of, 361 

in manures, 194 

in marmalade, 193 

in nitric acid, 358 

in phosphoric acid and phosphates, 
193 

in poultry, 194 

in sugar, 194 

in sulphuric acid, 192, 358 

in sulphurous acid and sulphites, 
193 

in superphosphate manure, 194 

in sweets, 194 

in syrups, 193 

in tartaric acid, 193 

in treacle, 193 



Arsenic in vinegar, 193 
in wall-papers, 197 
in wearing apparel, 197 
in wine, epidemic due to, 196 
in yeast, 193 
in zinc, 359 

neuritis due to, 191, 194, 196 
poisoning by, 191, 194, 196, 197 
prohibition as a colouring matter in 

Germany, 186 

recommendations of Eoyal Com- 
mission, 194 
Arsenic-free chemicals, preparation of, 

358 

Asaprol, see Abrastol 
Ascarides, 242 
Aspergillus glaucus, action on arsenic, 

198 

in corn, 297 

Austria-Hungary : laws relating to pre- 
servatives and colouring 
matters in, 186, 439 
prohibition of the use of saponin 
in, 373 



BACILLUS ACIDI LACTICI, multiplication 

of, 1 

Bacillus actinobacter in milk, 274 
Bacillus anthracis, characteristics of, 

223 

effects of benzoic acid on, 86 
effects of boric acid on, 17 
effects of salicylic acid on, 79, 

86 

effects of salt on, 13 
Bacillus botulinus, 312 
Bacillus of cholera, effects of copper 

salts on, 178 
effects of hydrogen peroxide 

on, 94 

effects of salt on, 13 
vitality in media composed of 

flour, 300 

Bacillus coli communis, as a cause of 
food-poisoning, 312, 314, 
316 

effects of boron com- 
pounds on, 19 
effects of copper salts on, 

178 
effects of formic aldehyde 

on, 58 

in cockles, 254, 255, 262 
in meat, 316 
in milk, 134, 287 
in milk, method of detec- 
tion, 287 
in oatmeal, 299 
in oats, 300 
in oyster layings, 258 



INDEX 



461 



Bacillus coli communis in oysters, 255, 

257 

in oysters, method of de- 
tection, 261 
in potted meat, 316 
in water-cress beds, 293 
in wheat, 300 

Bacillus cyanogenus in milk, 274 
Bacillus of diphtheria, in cream, 

vitality of, 271 
in cheese, vitality of, 271 
in flour media, vitality of, 300 
in milk, 269 

in milk, detection of, 287 
in milk, vitality of, 271 
Bacillus enteritidis (Gartner), as a 
cause of diarrhoea, 19, 
252, 271 

as a cause of food-poison- 
ing, 314 

effects of boron com- 
pounds on, 19 
in excreta, 314 
in meat, 314, 316 
in milk, 19, 272 
in the normal intestine, 

314 
in oysters, detection of, 

264 
in shell-fish, detection of, 

264 
Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes, in 

milk, detection of, 288 
in oats, 300 
in oyster layings, 258 
in oysters, detection of, 261 
in rice, 300 
in wheat, 300 
Bacillus lactis erythrogenes in milk, 

274 

Bacillus lactis viscosus in milk, 274 
Bacillus prodigiosus in milk, 274 
Bacillus of swine fever, 224 
Bacillus synxanthus in milk, 274 
Bacillus of tuberculosis, effects of 

common salt on, 13, 166 
identity of human and bovine 

forms of, 216 
in cattle, 216, 266 
in cheese, vitality of, 271 
in cream, vitality of, 271 
in milk, 267, 285, 286 
in milk, detection of, 285, 286 
in milk, vitality of, 271 
thermal death-point of, 2 
Bacillus typhosus, effects of boron com- 
pounds on, 19 
effects of copper and copper 

salts on, 178 

effects of formic aldehyde on, 
58 



Bacillus typhosus, effects of hydrogen 

peroxide on, 94 
effects of salt on, 13 
in cheese, vitality of, 271 
in cockles, 254, 255 
in cream, vitality of, 271 
in flour media, vitality of, 

300 

in milk, vitality of, 271 
in oysters, vitality of, 255 
in shell-fish, 254, 255, 264 
Bacon, benzoic acid in, 85, 166 

boron compounds in, 16, 21, 166, 

432 

desirability of, 169, 170 
necessity for, 169, 432 
quantities present, 167, 

432 

colouring matters in, 174 
poisoning by, 306, 317 
salt in, 11, 165, 167 
saltpetre in, 11, 166 
smoking of, 171 
sulphites in, 166 
Bacteria, associated with food-poisoning, 

312, 314, 316, 317, 326 
effects of alcohol on, 92 
effects of benzoic acid on, 86 
effects of boron compounds on, 16, 

17, 19 

effects of carbonic acid on, 158 
effects of cold on, 1, 5, 113 
effects of copper and its salts on, 

178 

effects of formic acid on, 91 
effects of formic aldehyde on, 57, 

58 

effects of heat on, 1, 5, 113 
effects of hydrogen peroxide on, 94 
effects of iron on, 178 
effects of salicylic acid on, 79, 86 
effects of salt on, 13, 166, 313 
effects of smoke on, 9 
effects of sulphurous acid and sul- 
phites on, 70, 74 
effects of zinc on, 178 
in bread, 301 
in butter, 142, 282 
in cream, vitality of, 271 
in eggs, 283 

in flour media, vitality of, 300 
in foods, examination of, 326 
in milk, 97, 134 

examination of, 285, 286, 288 
in tinned foods, 301 
thermophylic, 1 
Bacteriological examination of butter 

290 

of cockles, 260, 262 
of cream, 290 
of ice-cream, 290 



462 



PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 



Bacteriological examination of meat, 

215, 222, 326 
of milk, 285, 286, 288 
of oysters, 259, 260, 262 
of shell-fish, 259, 260, 262 
Bananas, seizure of, 209 
Barium compounds in wines prohibited 

in Germany, 439 
Barley, copper in, 179 

smut in, 298 
Beans, copper sulphate in, 90 

seizure of unsound tinned, 412 
Beef, poisoning by, 305, 314, 318, 319, 

320 
Beef bladder worm, see Cysticercus 

bovis 

Beef (corned), 'poisoning by, 316 
Beer, aeration of, 152 
antimony in, 198 
arsenic in, 191 

estimation of, 358 
benzoic acid in, 152 
boron compounds in, 16, 152 
carbonic acid in, 152 
colouring matters in, 174 
filtration of, 152 

fluorine compounds in, 87, 89, 152 
foam producers in, 371 
hydrogen peroxide in, 94 
lead in, 201 
pasteurization of, 152 
percentage of samples preservatized, 

152 

preservatives in, 152 
desirability of, 153 
necessity for, 152 
saccharin in, 93, 152, 153 
salicylic acid in, 79, 80, 152, 153 

limitation suggested by De- 
partmental Committee, 
153, 438 

detection of, 347 
< sick,' 151, 153 
saponin in, 371 
sulphites in, 70, 77, 79, 152, 153, 

433 

See also Herb beer 
Belgium, prohibition of preservatives in 

milk in, 439 
Benzoic acid, action on bacteria, 86 

action on digestive ferments, 

85 

action taken by the United 
States Treasury with regard 
to, 84 

as an antiseptic, 85 
as a preservative, 85 
dose of, 86 
effects on adults, 86 
excretion of, 86 
in bacon, 85, 166 



Benzoic acid in beer, 152 

in British wines, 156 

in food, isolation and detection 

of, 351 

in food, estimation of, 353 
in fruit juices, 85 
in ham, 85, 170 
in jam, 85, 162 
in jam, detection of, 351 
in jellies, 85 
in ketchups, 85, 164 
in medicated wines, 85 
in milk, detection of, 353 
in minced meat, 85 
in pickles, detection of, 351 
in potted meat, 85, 171 
in sacramental wine, 85 
in sauces, 164 
in sausages, 85, 170 
in wines, 85 

occurrence in nature of, 85 
pharmacological action of, 86 

Biltong, 8, 171 

Bismarck brown as a colouring matter, 

185 
poisonous effects of, 186 

Bitter milk, 275 

Bixa Orellana, 175 

Black-currant wine, salicylic acid in, 156 

Black leg, 223 

Bloater paste, oxide of iron in, 176 

Blood corpuscles in milk, 278, 279, 285 

' Blown ' tins, 7, 275, 290, 304, 412, 413 

Blue milk, 274 

Boiled milk, test for, 289 

Borates, arsenic in, 193 

Borax, dose of, 21 

pharmacological action of, 21 
See also Boron compounds 

Boric acid, dermatitis produced by, 40, 

41 

dose of, 21, 104 
pharmacological action of, 21 
See also Boron compounds 

Boron compounds, action on adults, 39, 

40, 44, 50 

action on amylopsin, 27 
action on bacteria, 17, 19 
action on cats, 43 
action on children, 36, 41, 42 
action on dogs, 32, 33, 34 
action on epithelium, 31 
action on fat metabolism, 34, 

37, 38, 49 

action on the kidneys, 42, 43 
action on kittens, 35 
action on nitrogen metabolism, 

33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 49 
action on pepsin, 25 
action on phosphorus meta- 
bolism, 37, 38, 49 



INDEX 



463 



Boron compounds, action on pigs, 34 

action on ptyalin, 23 

action on rabbits, 34 

action on rennin, 27 

action on souring of milk, 17, 
19 . 

action on trypsin, 29 

arsenic in, 193 

as preservatives, 11, 16, 79 

detection and estimation of, 
328 

effects on the digestibility of 
meat, 31 

effects on the digestibility of 
milk, 31 

effects on the keeping qualities 
butter, 19 

elimination of, 21, 48 

in ale, 16, 152 

in bacon and ham, 16, 21, 166, 
167, 184, 432 

in bacon and ham, desirability 
of, 169 

in bacon and ham, necessity 
for, 169, 432 

in butter, 16, 19, 142,144, 145, 
433 

in butter, desirability of, 146 

in butter, detection and esti- 
mation of, 331 

in butter (legal cases), 377, 
378, 379, 382, 383 

in butter, limitation recom- 
mended by Departmental 
Committee, 438 

in butter, necessity for, 20, 
146 

in butter, percentage of samples 
containing, 143 

in butter, quantity advocated, 
20, 433 

in cattle-feeding cakes, 16 

in caviare, 16, 172 

in cider, 154 

in cider, detection and estima- 
tion of, 333 

in condensed milk, 16 

in cream, 16, 20, 79, 137, 138 

in cream, desirability of, 138 

in cream, estimation of, 333 

in cream (legal case), 380 

in cream, limitation suggested 
by the Departmental Com- 
mittee, 438 

in eggs, 16 

in fish, 16, 172, 433 

in fruit, estimation of, 333 

in fruit juice, 16 

in game, 16 

in ham and bacon, 16, 21, 166, 
167, 169, 184, 432 



Boron compounds in herb beer, 160 
in herrings, 172 
in jam, estimation of, 334 
in lemon squash, 16 
in lime juice, 16 
in margarine, 16, 149, 377, 

383, 433 
in margarine (legal cases), 377, 

383 

in meat, 16, 166, 170, 433 
in meat, estimation of, 334 
in meat extracts, 16, 171 
in medicated wines, 157 
in milk, 16, 17, 79, 98, 99, 102, 

433 
in milk, danger to health 

from, 104, 433 
in milk, estimation of, 332 
in milk (legal cases), 380, 382 
in milk, percentage of samples 

containing, 99 

in milk, prohibition recom- 
mended by Departmental 

Committee, 438 
in milk, quantity employed, 

102, 380, 382, 433 
in minced meat, 16 
in perry, estimation of, 333 
in polonies, 16 
in pork pies, 16, 171 
in potted fish, 16, 172 
in potted fish (legal cases), 

382, 383, 384 

in potted meat, 16, 171 

in poultry, 16 

in rennet, 16 

in sausages, 16, 170, 383, 384 

in sausages, estimation of, 334 

in sausages (legal cases), 383, 

384 

in shell-fish, 16 
in shrimps (legal cases), 382, 

383, 384 

in temperance beverages, 159, 

160 

in tongue, 16, 184 
in vegetables, 164 
in venison, 16 
in vinegar, 16, 164 
in wine, 16 
prohibited in foreign countries, 

439, 440 
trade preparations containing, 

9, 11, 16, 79, 102, 145, 184 
See also Borax, Boric acid, 

and Fluoboric acid 
BothriocepJialus latus, appearance of, 

237 

embryo of, 237 
fish invaded by larvae of, 237, 

246 



464 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



BoihriocepTialus latus, geographical dis- 
tribution of, 237 
larvae of, 237 
symptoms caused by, 237 
Bottled fruit, see Fruit, bottled 
Bottled milk, 126, 127, 133, 134 
Botulism, 313 
Brandy, caramel in, 175 

copper in, 179 
Brawn, colouring matters in, 174 

poisoning by, 306 
Braxy, 209, 223 
Bread, alum in, 89 

bacteria in, 301 

cockroaches in, 301 

dried, 8 

moulds in, 301 

mouldy, 299, 300 

mouldy, illness caused by, 299 

unsound, 300 
Brine, see Salt 
Broths (tinned), lead in, 202 
Buddeized milk, 94, 135 

detection of hydrogen peroxide 

in, 355 

Bunt in corn, 297 

Burton's household milk and food pre- 
servative, 16, 102 
Butter, annatto in, 175 

bacteria in, 142, 282 

bacteriological examination of, 290 

borax in, 142 

boric acid in, 19, 142, 144, 145, 377, 

378, 379, 382, 383 

boric acid in, estimation of, 331 
boric acid in (legal cases), 377, 378, 

379, 382, 383 

boric acid in, quantity said to be 
necessary, 144, 146 

boric acid in, quantity found, 19, 
144, 146, 377, 378, 379, 382, 383 

boron compounds in, 16, 142, 433 

boron compounds in, effects on the 
keeping qualities, 19 

boron compounds in, limitation 
recommended by Departmental 
Committee, 438 

boron compounds in, percentage of 
samples containing, 143 

boron compounds in ; quantity said 
to be necessary, 20, 433 

coal-tar dyes in, 174 

colouring matters in, 174, 175, 184 

colouring matters in, recommenda- 
tions of Departmental Committee 
with relation to, 188, 437 

creameries, 144 

disease due to rancid, 281 

factories, 144 

fluorine compounds in, 87, 88 

fluorine compounds in, test for, 336 



Butter, fluorine compounds in, estima- 
tion of, 337 

formic aldehyde in, 143, 145 

influence of butter-milk on the 
keeping qualities of, 147 

preservatives in, 142 

preservatives in, desirability of, 146 

preservatives in, laws in the Nether- 
lands relating to, 440 

preservatives in, necessity for, 146 

production of flavours in, 141, 147 

refrigeration of, 5, 142 

salicylic acid in, 79 

salicylic acid in, detection and esti- 
mation, 348 

salt in, 11, 19, 142, 143, 144, 145, 
146, 147 

salt in, effects on the keeping 
qualities of, 19 

saltpetre in, 11, 14, 143, 145 

starters, 141, 143, 146, 147, 151 

turnipy, 141 

tyrotoxicon in, 281 

tyrotoxicon in, detection of, 325 

unsound, 282 
Butter-colour, 175 
Butter-yellow, 185 



CADAVEKINE, 246 

Cadmium, prohibited as a colouring 

matter in Germany, 186 
Cakes, white lead in, 173 

for cattle feeding, boron compounds 

in, 16 

Calandra granaria, 297 
Calcium chloride, arsenic in, 359 
Calves, coccidia in, 243 

cow-pox in, 226 

diphtheria in, 225 

red dysentery in, 244 
Camwood, 174 
Canada, laws relating to preservatives 

and colouring matters in, 440 
' Cancer ' in cattle, 227 
Cane-sugar in cream, 137 
Canned food, see Tinned food 
Caramel, in brandy, 175 

arsenic in, 193 

Carbonate of soda, see Sodium carbo- 
nate 

Carbonates, arsenic in, 193 
Carbonic acid, as a preservative, 134, 
158 

in alcoholic beverages, 152 

in milk, 134 

in temperance beverages, 158 

in wine, 155 

Carrot juice as a colouring matter, 17 
Caterpillars in fruit, 301 
Cats, action of borax on, 43 



INDEX 



465 



Cats, action of sulphites on, 73 

glanders in, 226 
Catsup, see Ketchup 
Cattle, actinomycosis in, 227 

anthrax in, 222 

black-leg in, 223 

coccidia in, 243 

Cysticercus bovis in, 233 

Cysticercus tenuicollis in, 234 

echinococci in, 239, 240 

foot-and-mouth disease in, 226 

pentastomes in, 242 

pleuropneumonia in, 225 

quarter-ill in, 223 

rinderpest in, 225 

tuberculosis in, 216, 266 
Caviare, boron compounds in, 16, 172 

examination of, 255 
Cayenne pepper, metallic colouring 

matters in, 173 

Celery, hydatid disease due to, 293 
Cheese, annatto in, 175 

colouring matters in, 174 

colouring matters in, recommenda- 
tions of Departmental Com- 
mittee, 188, 437 

examination of, 291 

mites in, 291 

mouldy, 291 

preservatives in, 141 

salt in, 11 

toxalbumin in, 283 

toxins in, 283 

tyrotoxicon in, 282, 291 

tyrotoxicon in, detection of, 325 

unsound, 291 

vitality of bacillus of diphtheria in, 
271 

vitality of Bacillus tuberculosis in, 
271 

vitality of Bacillus typhosus in, 
271 

vitality of Streptococcus conglome- 
ratus in, 271 

worms in, 291 

Cherries, cochineal in preserved, 173 
Cherry brandy, salicylic acid in (legal 

cases), 388, 394 
Chickens, diphtheria in, 229 

fowl cholera in, 228 
Chicken-pox (in fowls), 244 
Chicory, arsenic in, 194 
Children, administration of borax and 

boric acid to, 36, 41^ 42 
of formic aldehyde to, 64 
of salicylic acid to, 81, 83 
Chlorophyll, action of copper salts on, 
90, 180, 183 

as a colouring matter, 186 
Chocolate, arsenic in, 194 
Cholera, due to milk, 266, 271 



Cholera, due to shell-fish, 250 

in poultry, 228 
Choline, 309 
Chromium prohibited in Germany for 

colouring foods, 186 
Cider, aeration of, 152 

boron compounds in, 154 

boron compounds in estimation of, 

333 

carbonic acid in, 152 
filtration of, 152 
lead in, 201 
necessity for adding preservatives 

to, 154 

pasteurization of, 152 
preservatives in, 152, 154 
quantity of preservative added, 154 
red oxide of iron in, 154 
saccharin in, 93, 154 
salicylic acid in, 79, 154, 435 
sulphites in, 71, 77, 79, 154 
' Cider Pasteur,' 154 
Citric acid, arsenic in, 193 

lead in, 202 

Claviceps purpurea, 298 
' Clean ' milk, 110, 114, 115, 132, 133 
Coal, estimation of arsenic in, 363 
Coal-tar derivatives, poisoning by, 185, 

187 

Coal-tar dyes, 173, 174, 184 
arsenic in, 194 
detection of, 369 
nature of, 185 

pharmacological action of, 185 
prohibited in wines in Ger- 
many, 439 

quantities employed, 185 
trade preparations of, 185 
Coceidia, 220, 243 
i Cochineal, as a colouring matter, 173, 

186 

Cockles, bacillus coli in, 254, 255, 262 
Bacillus typhosus in, 254, 255 
bacteriological examination of, 260, 

262 

diarrhoea due to, 254 
effects of steaming, 253 
enteric fever due to, 253 
examination of, 247 
Cockroaches, in bread, 301 
Cocoa, copper in, 179 

oxide of iron in, 176 
Cold, effects on Cysticercus bovis, 234 
effects on Cysticercus celluloses 

235 

effects on multiplication of bac- 
teria, 1, 5, 113 
storage, 4 

Colitis due to unsound milk, 272 
Colouring matters in dairy produce 
174, 175, 185, 187, 437 

30 



466 



PEESEBVATIVES IN FOOD 



Colouring matters, in dairy produce, 

necessity for, 175 
in dairy produce, recommenda- 
tions of Departmental Com- 
mittee, 189, 438 
in fish, 174 
in food, 173 

in food, detection of, 369 
in food, laws in foreign coun- 
tries relating to, 186, 187, 
439 

in food, poisoning by, 187 
in food, recommendations of 
Departmental Committee 
with reference to, 189, 438 
in margarine, 174, 175, 184, 

189, 437 
in temperance beverages, 174, 

184 

Condensed milk, boron compounds in, 16 
unsound, 275, 290, 413 
unsound, seizure of, 413 
Confectionery, arsenic in, 173, 193 
coal-tar dyes in, 184 
metallic colouring matters in, 173 
oxide of iron in, 176 
poisoning by coloured, 187 
Congo red, 185 
' Conservare,' 16 

Copenhagen Milk Supply Company, 115 
Copper, action on bacteria, 178 

action on chlorophyll, 90, 180, 183 
distribution in nature of, 179, 182 
detection and estimation in foods 

of, 365 
dose of, 401 
excretion of, 177 
in barley, 179, 180 
in bottled fruits, 173 
in brandy, 179 
in cocoa, 179 
in confectionery, 173 
in foods, legal cases, 397 
in foods, recommendations of 
Departmental Committee with 
regard to, 189, 438 
in foods, regulations in foreign 

countries, 186, 403, 439 
in the human and animal body, 

179 

in linseed, 179, 180 
in mussels, 249 
in mustard, 179, 180 
in oysters, 179, 248 
in peas, 179, 180 
in plants, 179 

in vegetables (legal cases), 397 
in vegetables, detection and estima 

tion of, 366 

in water and aerated water, detec- 
tion and estimation of, 365 



Copper in wheat, 179, 180 
in whisky, 179 

pharmacological action of, 177, 
179, 181, 401, 408. See also 
Copper acetate, &c. 
Copper acetate, action on man, 181 
Copper arsenite, in confectionery, 173 
Copper carbonate, in confectionery, 173 
Copper chloride, action on Bacillus coli, 

178 
action on Bacillus typhosus, 

178 

Copper leguminate, 180, 402 
Copper phyllocyanate, 180, 402 
Copper sulphate, action on algae, 177 
action on anabcena, 177 
action on Bacillus cholera;, 178 
action on Bacillus coli, 178 
action on Bacillus typhosus, 

178 
action on chlorophyll, 90, 180, 

183 

action on fish, 178 
action on man, 177, 179, 401, 

408 

action on pancreatin, 177 
action on pepsin, 177 
action on ptyalin, 177 
action on uroglena, 177 
desirability of the use of, 187, 

436 

dose of, 177, 402 
in beans, 90 
in fruit, 176 
in peas, 90, 179, 180, 183, 397, 

404, 408, 436 
in peas (legal cases), 397, 398, 

399, 400, 401, 404, 408 
in other vegetables, 90, 164, 
173, 176, 179, 187, 204, 436 
in other vegetables (legal cases), 

400 
prohibition in foreign countries 

of, 184, 403, 439 
recommendation of the De- 
partmental Committee on 
the use of, 189, 438 
solubility in the digestive juices 

of, 183 

Coralline, prohibited in Germany, 186 
Cordials, cochineal in, 173 
colouring matters in, 174 
formic aldehyde in, 160 
salicylic acid in, 159, 160 
sulphites in, 70, 159, 160 
Corn, bacteria in, 300 
copper in, 179, 180 
damaged, 299 
diseases due to, 298 
examination of, 300 
fungi in, 297, 300 



INDEX 



467 



Corn, parasites in, 297, 300 
Corn-weevil, 297 
Cow-pox, 226 

Cows, feeding of, 117, 128, 274 
garget in, 274, 278 
tubercle in, 216, 266 
Cowsheds, construction of, 111 
Cowslip-colour, 175 
Crabs, examination of, 247 

seizure of unsound, 414 
Crayfish, examination of, 247 
Cream, annatto in, 175 

boric acid in (legal case), 380 
boron compounds in, 16, 20, 79, 

137 
boron compounds in, detection and 

estimation, 333 
cane-sugar in, 137 
carbonate of soda in, 90, 141 
coal-tar dyes in, 174 
colouring matters in, 174, 175, 184 
desirability of adding preservatives 

to, 138, 141, 435 
enteric fever due to, 280 
examination of, 290 
fluorine compounds in, 87 
formic aldehyde in, 56, 137, 138, 

140 

lime in, 90, 137, 141 
necessity for the use of preservatives 

in, 139, 435 
percentage of samples containing 

preservatives, 137 
recommendations of the Depart- 
mental Committee with regard 
to the use of preservatives in, 
435, 438 

saccharin in, 137 
salicylic acid in, 79, 137, 138, 140 
salt in, 137, 138 
saltpetre in, 137, 138, 140 
sterilization of, 140 
vitality of bacteria in, 271 
' Cream cakes,' poisoning by, 283 
Cream of tartar, lead in, 202 
Creameries, butter, 144 
Creosote, a product of smoking, 9 
dose of, 96 

effects on animals, 96 
in hams and tongues, 185 
in pyroligneous acid, 96 
Cynin, 79, 154 
Cysticerci, resemblance to tubercles, 

220, 240 
Cysticercus bovis, appearances of, 233, 

234 
effect of heat and cold on, 

234 

effect of salt on, 234 
method of dealing with, 235 
situation in carcasses of, 234 



Cysiicercus cellulos<z, animals attacked 

by, 236 

appearances of, 235 
effects on flesh of animals of, 

236 
effects of heat and cold on, 

235 

method of dealing with, 236 
situation in carcasses of, 236 
situation in man, 236 
symptoms caused by, 236 
Cysticercus tenuicollis, appearances of, 

234 
situation in carcasses of, 234 



DAISY PRODUCE, colouring matters in, 

174, 175, 185 

colouring matters in, recom- 
mendations of Departmental 
Committee as to, 189, 438 
Darnel grass, 299 

detection in flour, 299 
Deer, Cysticercus celluloste in, 236 
Departmental Committee on preserva- 
tives and colouring matters in food, 
conclusions and recommendations of, 
431 

Dermatitis, due to boric acid, 40, 41 
due to formic aldehyde, 67 
due to milk, 67, 266, 273 
due to salicylic acid, 81 
' Diamonds,' 224 
Diarrhoea, due to cockles, 254 
due to milk, 18, 266, 271 
due to oysters, 251, 252, 253 
Diastase, action of benzoic acid on, 85 

action of salicylic acid on, 85 
Digestibility of meat, effects of boron 

compounds on, 31 
effects of formic aldehyde 

on, 59 
Digestibility of milk, effects of boron 

compounds on, 31 
effects of heat on, 124 
Dimethylamine, 246 

' Dinitrokresol, poisonous effects of, 186 
1 Diphtheria, due to milk, 266, 269 
in calves, 225 
in fowls, 229 
in pigeons, 229 
Distoma Jwpaticwn, 241 

examination of organs for, 242 
Distoma lanccolatum, 241 
Dogs, administration of borax to, 32, 34 
administration -of boric acid to, 33, 

34 

administration of dulcin to, 93 
administration of iodoform to, 35 
administration of perchloride of 
mercury to, 35 



468 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Dogs, administration of saltpetre to, 15 
administration of saponin to, 373 
administration of sulphites to, 73 
Cysticercus cellulosa; in, 236 
glanders in, 226 
pentastomes in, 243 
Tcenia echinococcus in, 238 

Dried milk, 8, 135 

Drying, as a means of preservation, 8, 
135, 164, 165, 171, 172 

Ducks, fowl cholera in, 228 

Dulcin, a substitute for saccharin, 93 
effects on dogs, 93 
prohibited in America, 440 

Dysentery of calves, 244 



EAR COCKLE, 297, 300 
Echinococcus cysts, 237, 293 

animals invaded by, 239, 241 
development of, 238 
identification of, 220, 240 
method of dealing with meat 

infested with, 240 
Echinococcus alveolaris(multilocularis), 

239 
Echinococcus polymorphic (unilocu- 

laris), 239 

Echinococcus veterinorum, 240 
Echinorynchus gigas, 242 
Eels, Bothriocephalus latus in, 237 
Eggs, bacteria in, 283 
dried, 8 

poisoning by, 283 
preservation by boron compounds, 

16 

preservation by fats, 172 
preservation by lime, 171 
preservation by salicylic acid, 171 
preservation by salt, 171 
preservation by sulphites, 171 
preservation by water-glass, 6, 171 
Elderberry cordial, salicylic acid in 

(legal cases), 388, 394 
Emergency slaughter, 213, 314 
Enamels, arsenic in, 194 

lead in, 202 

Enteric fever, due to cockles, 253 
due to cream, 280 
due to fish, 246 
due to ice-creams, 280 
due to milk, 266, 270, 427 
due to mussels, 249 
due to oysters, 250 
due to vegetables, 292 
due to water-cress, 293 
Enteritis, zymotic, see Diarrhoea 
Eosin, 185 

Epithelium, action of borax on, 31 
action of boric acid on, 31 
action of salicylic acid on, 83 



Epithelium, action of salt on, 12 
action of saltpetre on, 15, 32 
action of sulphur dioxide on, 72 
Ergot of rye, 297, 298 
Ergotism, symptoms of, 298 



' FACING ' of rice, 373 

dangers of, 374 
detection of, 374 
Factories, butter, 144 
Fat, character of sound, 213 

detection of abrastol in, 345 

effects of borax on the assimilation 
of, 34, 38, 49 

effects of boric acid on the assimi- 
lation of, 34, 37, 49 

effects of formic aldehyde on the 

assimilation of, 65 
Filtration of beer, 152 
Filtration of cider, 152 
Filtration of milk, 113, 121, 128 
Filtration of temperance beverages, 158 
Fish, action of copper salts on, 178 

boron compounds in, 16, 172, 433 

Bothriocephalus latus larvae in, 237, 
246 

colouring matters in, 174 

diseases caused by, 246, 247, 303 

enteric fever caused by fried, 246 

examination of, 247 

formic aldehyde in, 56, 172 

myxosporidia in, 244 

potted, boron compounds in, 16, 
172 

potted, boron compounds in (legal 
cases), 382, 383, 384 

preservation of, 172 

ptomaine poisoning due to, 246 

refrigeration of, 172 

salt in, 11, 172 

saltpetre in, 11, 172 

tinned, 6 

tinned, lead in, 202 

tinned, poisoning by, 303 

unsound, seizure of, 414 

vinegar in, 172 
Flesh, characters of sound, 212 

microscopical examinination of, 
214, 220, 228, 232, 240, 243, 245 
Flour, bacteria in, 300 

darnel grass in, 299 

disease caused by, 299 

examination of, 300 

mouldy, 299 

Flowers, salicylic acid in, 78 
Flukes, see Distoma 

Fluoborates, prohibited in America, 440 
Fluoboric acid, as a preservative, 87 

detection of, 336 

effects on the souring of milk, 87 



INDEX 



469 



Fluorides, detection of, 336 
estimation of, 337 
prohibited in America, 440 
See also Sodium fluoride 
Fluorine compounds, 87 

detection and estimation of, 

336, 337 

effects on animals, 88 
effects on digestive ferments, 

88 
effects on the souring of milk, 

87 

in beer, 87, 89 
in butter, 87, 88 
in cream, 87 
in jam, 87 
in milk, 87, 99 
in milk, desirability of, 107 
pharmacological action of, 88 
prohibited in America, 440 
Fluosilicates, detection of, 336 
prohibited in America, 440 
' Foam ' producers in beverages, 371 
Foetuses, flesh of, 215 
Food, bacteriological examination of, 

215, 326 

examination of, 205, 212, 214, 322 
examination of, laws relating to, 

205, 206, 208 
infection, 308, 311, 314 
intoxication, 308, 309 
poisoning, bacteria associated with, 

312, 314, 316, 317, 326 
poisoning by ptomaines, 308 
poisoning by toxins, 309 
poisoning, examination of food 

causing, 322 

tin in, danger from, 7, 8, 204 
tinned, bacterial spores in, 301 
tinned, examination of, 7, 275, 290, 

304 

tinned, lead in, 7, 202 
tinned, poisoning by, 8, 303, 304,305 
tinned, tin in, 7, 204 
tinned, unsound, 7, 275, 290, 304, 

412, 413 
tinned, unsound (legal cases), 412, 

413 

tinned, zinc in, 7 
unsound, condemnation of, 205 
unsound, seizure of, 205, 412 
unsound, seizure of (legal cases), 

412, 413, 414, 415, 420, 422 
Foot-and-mouth disease, clue to milk, 

266 

in animals, 226, 278, 320 
poisoning by flesh of 
animals suffering from, 
320 

Formalin, 56 
Formic acid, action on bacteria of, 91 



Formic acid as a preservative, 91 

detection and estimation of, 

354 

dose of, 92 
in fruits, 91 

occurrence in nature of, 92 
pharmacological action of, 91 
Formic aldehyde, action on ad alts, 66, 67 
action on aniylopsin, 61 
action on bacteria, 57, 58 
action on children, 64 
action on fat metabolism, 65 
action on gelatine, 56 
action on kittens, 63, 64 
action on nitrogenous meta- 
bolism, 65 
action on pepsin, 59 
action on phosphorus meta- 
bolism, 65 
action on pigs, 62 
action on proteids, 56, 59, 60 
action on ptyalin, 58 
action on rennin, 60 
action on souring of milk, 57 
action on trypsin, 60 
dermatitis caused by, 67 
detection of, 338, 339, 342 
estimation of, 343 
estimation of, difficulties, 101, 

103, 107, 138, 342 
excretion of, 66 
in British wines, 156 
in butter, 143, 145 
in cream, 56, 137, 138, 140 
in cream, desirability of, 140 
in fish, 56, 172 
in fruit, 56, 162 
in ginger beer, 56 
in meat, 56, 170 
in milk, 56, 99, 103, 384 
in milk, danger to health from, 

106 

in milk, dermatitis due to, 67 
in milk, detection of, 338 
in milk, difficulty of estimat- 
ing, 101, 103, 107, 138, 342 
in milk, estimation of, 343 
in milk (legal cases), 384 
in milk, percentage of samples 

containing, 100 
in milk, quantity added, 103 
in temperance beverages, 56, 

159, 160, 435 
in vegetables, 164 
in vinegar, 104 
pharmacological action of, 66 
prohibition in America, 440 
prohibition recommended by 
Departmental Committee, 
438 
properties of, 56 



470 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Fowl cholera, 228 

Fowl diphtheria, 228 

Fowls, chicken-pox in, 244 
coccidia in, 244 

France, prohibition of copper for colour- 
ing vegetables in, 184, 403 
prohibition of use of preservatives 
and colouring matters in, 439 

' Freeze-em,' 70 

French chalk, used for facing rice, 373 

Fruit, boron compounds in, detection 

and estimation, 328, 333 
bottled, antimony in, 200 
bottled, colouring matters in, 173 
bottled, lead in, 202 
bottled, sterilization of, 162 
bottled, sulphites in, 162 
caterpillars in, 301 
cochineal in, 173 
colouring matters in, 174 
copper salts in, 176 
dried, 8, 164 
examination of, 301, 302 
fluorine compounds in, detection 

and estimation, 336, 337 
formic acid in, 91 
formic aldehyde in, 56, 162 
jellies, colouring matters in, 174 
juice, benzoic acid in, 85 
juice, boron compounds in, 16 
juice, salicylic acid in, 159 
juice, sulphites in, 159 
maggots in, 301 
moulds in, 301, 302 
preserved, antimony in, 200 
preserved, coal-tar dyes in, 174 
preserved, colouring matters in, 

173, 174 

preserved, examination of, 301 
preserved, lead in, 202 
preserved, sterilization of, 162 
preserved, sulphites in, 162 
pulp, colouring matters in, 174 
pulp, microscopical examination 

of, 163 

pulp, sulphites in, 163 
pulp, unsound, 163, 301, 413 
pulp, unsound (legal case), 413 
salicylic acid in, 78 
sulphites in, 70 

tinned, bacterial spores in, 301 
tinned, examination of, 301 
tinned, lead in, 202 
tinned, sterilization of, 162. 
tinned, tin in, 202, 204 
toxins in, 292 

unsound, 292, 301, 302, 413 
unsound (legal case), 413 

Fuchsin, 185 

Fuel, arsenic in, 192 

estimation of, 363 



GAMBOGE, dose of, 176 

in confectionery, 173, 174 

pharmacological action of, 176 

prohibited in Austria-Hungary, 186, 
439 

prohibited in Germany, 186 
Game, boron compounds in, 16 

diseases of, 228 

preservation of, 171 

sulphites applied to, 70 
Garget, 274, 278 
Gartner's bacillus, see Bacillus enteri- 

tidis 

Gastro -enteritis due to milk, 279 
Geese, fowl cholera in, 228 
Gelatine, action of formaldehyde on, 56 

arsenic in, 194 

Germany, laws relating to the use of 
colouring matters in, 186, 439 

laws relating to the use of pre- 
servatives in, 439 
Ginger beer, alcohol in, 158 

formaldehyde in, 56 
Ginger wine, salicylic acid in, 156 

salicylic acid in (legal cases), 

387, 388, 394 
Glanders, 226 

Glucin, prohibited in America, 440 
Glucose, arsenic in, 191, 193 

in marmalade (legal case), 395 
Glycerine, arsenic in, 193 

in wine, prohibited in Germany, 

439 
Goats, echinococci in, 239 

glanders in, 226 

strongylus in, 242 
Gout, common salt in, 13 
' Grapes,' see Perlsucht 
Grapes, formic acid in, 91 
Green-bearded oysters, 248 



HACKFLEISCH, sulphites in, 71, 76 
Heematosporidia, 244 
Ham, alum in, 89, 166 

benzoic acid in, 85, 170 

boron compounds in, 16, 21, 166, 
167, 184, 432 

boron compounds in, desirability of, 
169 

boron compounds in, necessity for, 
169, 432 

boron compounds in, quantity em- 
ployed, 167, 432 

colouring matters in, 185 

creosote in, 185 

refrigeration of, 4 

salt in, 12, 166, 184 

saltpetre in, 12, 89, 166, 169 

smoking of, 17 1 

sulphites in, 166 



INDEX 



471 



' Hamburg steak,' sulphites in, 76 

Hares, echinococci in, 241 

' Hawke's Anti-ferment,' 71, 154 

' Health-guard,' 16 

Heat, effects on bacterial growth, 1, 5, 

113 

effects on Cysticercus bovis, 234 
effects on Cysticercus cellulose, 

235 

effects on digestibility of milk, 124 
effects on milk, 123 
effects on toxins, 311, 313, 314, 317, 

324, 325 

Herb beer, alcohol in, 158 
boric acid in, 160 
salicylic acid in, 160 
Herrings, boric acid in, 172 

pyroligneous acid for curing, 172 
Hoffmann's violet, 185 
Hog bladder worm, see Cysticercus 

cellulose 
Hops, arsenic in, 192 

estimation of arsenic in, 361, 362 
Horlick's malted milk, 8 
Horses, glanders in, 226 
pentastomes in, 243 
Houston's standards for the bacterio- 
logical examination of oysters, 259 
Hydatid disease, due to vegetables, 

293. See also Echinococci 
Hydrochloric acid, arsenic in, 192, 358 
prohibited for wines in France, 

439 

Hydrofluoric acid, as a preservative, 87 
dose of, 88 
effects on man, 88 
Hydrogen peroxide, action on bacteria, 

94 

as a preservative, 94 
detection of, 355 
dose of, 95 
estimation of, 356 
in beer, 94 
in milk, 94, 135 



ICE, contaminated, 172 
Ice-creams, diseases caused by, 280 
enteric fever due to, 280 
examination of, 290 
Ice-wagons on railways, 116, 148 
Immature animals, the flesh of, 215 
Infantile mortality, relation of preserva- 

tized milk to, 108 
Infantile scurvy, in relationship to heated 

milk, 3, 124, -125 
Infection by food, 308, 311 
Inspection of food, see Food 
Intoxication by food, 308, 311, 312 
Invertin, action of benzole acid on, 85 
action of salicylic acid on, 85 



lodoform, effects of administration to 

dogs, 35 
as a cause of abnormal odours in 

milk, 275 

Iron, action on bacteria, 178 
Iron oxide, 79, 154, 176 

arsenic in colouring matters 

containing, 193 
in anchovies, 176 
in bloater paste, 176 
in Cayenne pepper, 173 
in cider, 154 
in cocoa, 176 
in condiments, 176 
in confectionery, 176 
in sauces, 176 
in sausages, 176 



JAM, arsenic in, 193 

benzoic acid in, 85, 162 

benzoic acid in, method of detection, 

351 
boron compounds in, method of 

estimation, 334 
coal-tar dyes in, 174 
cochineal in, 173 

colouring matters in, 173, 174, 184 
desirability of preservatives in, 163 
fluorine compounds in, 87 
fluorine compounds in, method of 

detection, 336 
fluorine compounds in, method of 

estimation, 337 
moulds in, 301, 413 
salicylic acid in, 78, 80, 162, 163, 

391, 392, 393, 394 

salicylic acid in (legal cases), 391, 

392, 393, 394 
seizure of unsound, 413 
sterilization of, 162 
sugar in, 162 
sulphites in, 162, 163 

Jellies, benzoic acid in, 85 

benzoic acid in, method of detection, 

351 

cochineal in, 173 

colouring matters in, 173, 174, 184 
Jones and Trevithick's process for pre- 
serving food, 7 



KERMES berries, prohibited for wines in 

Germany, 439 
Ketchups, benzoic acid in, 85, 164 

benzoic acid in, method of detection, 

351 

colouring matters in, 174 
salicyclic acid in, 79, 164 
salt in, 164 
sulphites in, 70, 164 



472 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Kidneys, effects of borax on, 43 
effects of boric acid on, 42 
effects of salicyclic acid on, 81 
effects of sulphites on, 73 
Kittens, effects of administering boric 

acid to, 35 

effects of administering formic 
aldehyde, 63, 64 



LACTIC ACID, production of, 2 
Lactoxin in saponin, 372 
Lard, preservation of, 6 
Lathyrism, 298 

Laws relating to the use of preservatives 
and colouring matters in England, 375 
Laws relating to the use of preserva- 
tives and colouring matters on the 
Continent, 186, 439 
Lead chromate, in confectionery, 173 
Lead, detection and estimation in foods 

and beverages of, 365 
idiosyncrasy towards, 203 
in aerated waters, 201 
in beer, 201 
in cider, 201 
in citric acid, 202 
in cream of tartar, 202 
in enamels, 202 
in fruit preparations, 202 
in tartaric acid, 202 
in tea, 202 
in tin, 201, 202 
in tinned foods, 7, 202 
in vegetables, 202 
in water, 200 
in water, method of detection and 

estimation, 365 

poisoning by, 200, 201, 202, 203 
poisoning by, symptoms of, 203 
prohibited in colouring matters in 

Germany, 186 
red, in anchovies, 173 
red, in Cayenne pepper, 173 
red, in confectionery, 173 
white, in cakes, 173 
Legal cases, 375 

under the Public Health Acts, 

412 
under the Sale of Food and 

Drugs Acts, 377 
under the Sale of Goods Act, 

1893, 427 

Boodle v. Stewart, 377 
Firth v. McPhail, 207, 415 
Friend v. Mapp, 408 
Frost v. Aylesbury Dairy Co., 

426 

Hull v. Horsnell, 404 
Shutt v. Stockton Corporation, 
422 



Legal cases : 

Smith v. Wisden, 395 
Thomas v. Van Os, 420 
Walshaio v. Brighottse Cor- 
poration, 415 

Whipps v. Hudson Bros., 380 
Lemon squash, boron compounds in, 16 
colouring matters in, 174 
salicylic acid in, 79 
sulphites in, 70 
Lemons, formic acid in, 91 
Leucocytes in milk, 279, 286 
Liebig's food, 8 
Lime, arsenic in, 359 

for preserving eggs, 171 
in cream, 90, 137, 141 
in milk, 90 

Lime juice, boron compounds in, 16 
colouring matters in, 174 
salicylic acid in, 79, 80, 84, 

160, 390, 395, 436 
salicylic acid in (legal cases), 

390, 395 

sulphites in, 70, 84 
Limes, formic acid in, 91 
Linseed, copper in, 179, 180 
Liquorice, arsenic in, 194 
Liver-flukes, see Distoma 
Lobster, lead in tinned, 202 
Lobsters, examination of, 247 
Logwood, as a colouring matter, 174 
dose of, 176 
in wines, 176 
pharmacological action of, 176 



MAGGOTS in fruit, 301 
Magnesium compounds in wine, pro- 
hibited in Germany, 439 
Maize, alkaloids in, 309 
damaged, 299 
' verdet ' in, 298 
Malignant disease and common salt, 

association of, 13 
in animals, 215 
Malt, arsenic in, 192 

arsenic in, estimation, 361 
Manures, arsenic in, 194 
coal-tar dyes in, 174 
Margarine, annatto in, 175 

boron compounds in, 16, 149, 

377, 383, 433 
boron compounds in (legal cases), 

377, 383 
colouring matters in, 174, 175, 184, 

189, 437 
salt in, 149 
Markets and Fairs Clauses Act, 1847, 

208 

Marmalade, arsenic in, 193 
glucose in (legal case), 395 



INDEX 



473 



Marmalade, salicylic acid in (legal case), 

393 

Marsh's test, applied to foods, 358 
Martius' yellow, poisonous effects of, 

186 
Mastitis, a cause of pollution of milk, 

99 

McCall's process of preserving food, 7 
Meal mites, 297, 300 
Measly beef, 233 
Measly pork, 235, 236 
Meat, action of sulphites on the colour 

of, 71, 76 
alum in, 166 

ammonium acetate in, 89 
animal parasites in, 230 
appearance of normal, 212 
Bacillus coli in, 316 
Bacillus enteritidis in, 314, 316 
bacteriological examination of, 215, 

222, 326 
boron compounds in, 16, 166, 170, 

433 
boron compounds in, effects on 

digestibility, 31 
boron compounds in, estimation, 

334 
colour of, action of sulphites on, 

71,76 

colouring matters in, 174, 184 
decomposing, 303 
dried, 8, 165, 171 
examination of, 205, 212, 213, 214, 

215, 219, 245, 326 
formic aldehyde in, 56, 170 
formic aldehyde in, effects on 

digestibility, 59 
illness caused by, 303, 304, 305, 

307, 311, 312, 314. See also Meat 

epidemics 
inspection of, 205, 212, 213, 214, 

215 
microscopical examination of, 214, 

220, 228, 232, 240, 243, 245 
minced, see Minced meat 
cedematous, 215 
potted, see Potted meat 
refrigeration of, 4, 165 
salt in, 11, 165 
saltpetre in, 11, 14, 166 
smoked, 171 
sterilization of, 165 
sugar in, 167 

sulphites in, 70, 71, 74, 170, 432 
tinned, see Tinned meat 
tuberculous, 219, 422 
tumours in, 215 
unsound, 205, 303, 415, 422 
unsound, condemnation of, 205 
unsound, laws relating to, 205, 206, 

208 



Meat, unsound, seizure of, 205, 303, 

415, 422 
Meat epidemics, Bregenz, 318 

Breslau, 317 

Bulstringen, 319 

Chadderton, 315 

Cotta, 319 

Denis, 317 

Derby, 315 

Fluntern, 318 

Frankenhausen, 314, 319 

Ganstadt, 317 

Kalk, 320 

Klaten, 319 

Lauterbach, 319 

Mansfield, 316 

Middleburg, 319 

Middlesbrough, 306, 316, 317 

Moorseele, 317, 320 

Nottingham, 316 

Oldham, 305 

Piesenkam, 320 

Portsmouth, 306 

Eetford, 306 

St. Georgen, 319 

Schonenberg, 319 

Sheffield, 316 

Sielkeim, 320 

Thurgau, 320 

Welbeck, 316 

\Vhitchurch, 306 

Wurzen, 318 

Meat extracts, boron compounds in, 16, 
171 

colouring matters in, 174 

salicylic acid in, 79, 171 
Meat pies, poisoning by, 306, 315 
' Meat preserve crystal,' 70 
Medicated wines, benzoic acid in, 85 

salicylic acid in, 79 

Meningitis, due to tuberculous milk, 268 
Mercury compounds, prohibited as 
colouring matters in Germany, 
186 

sulphide, in Cayenne pepper, 173 
sulphide, in confectionery, 173 
Metallic poisoning, danger in tinned 

meats from, 7, 8 

Methyl orange, as a colouring agent, 
175, 185 

poisoning by, 186 
Methylamine, 246 
Methylene blue, as a colouring agent, 

185 

Microscopical examination, of flesh, 
214, 220, 228, 232, 240, 213, 
245 

of milk, 278, 284 
Miescher's sacs, 244 
Milk, abdominal tuberculosis due to, 
267 



474 



Milk, abrastol in, detection of, 344 
absorption of odours by, 275 
acidity of, estimation, 290 
annatto in, 175 
Bacillus actinobacter in, 274 
Bacillus coli communis in, 134, 

287 

Bacillus cyanogenes in, 274 
Bacillus enteritidis in, 19, 272 
Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes in, 

288 

Bacillus lactis erythrogcnes in, 274 
Bacillus lactis viscosus in, 274 
Bacillus prodigiosus in, 274 
Bacillus synxanthus in, 274 
Bacilhis tuberculosis in, 267, 285, 

286 

Bacillus tuberculosis in, examina- 
tion for, 285, 286 
bacteria in, 97, 113, 134 
bacteria in, effects of heat and cold 

on, 5, 113 
bacteria in, examination for, 285, 

286, 288 
bacteriological examination of, 285, 

286, 288 

benzoic acid in, detection, 353 
bitter, 275 

blood corpuscles in, 278, 279, 285 
blue, 274 

boiled, test for, 289 
boron compounds in, 16, 17, 79, 98, 

99, 102, 433 
boron compounds in, danger to 

health from, 104, 433 
boron compounds in, detection of, 

332 
boron compounds in, effects on 

digestibility, 31 
boron compounds in, effects on 

souring, 17, 19 
boron compounds in, estimation of, 

332 
boron compounds in (legal cases), 

380, 382 

bottled, 126, 127, 133, 134 
' Buddeized,' 94, 135 
' Buddeized,' detection of hydrogen 

peroxide in, 355 
carbonate of soda in, 90, 99 
carbonic acid in, 134 
centrifugalization of, 113 
cholera due to, 266, 271 
clean, 110, 114, 115, 132 
colouring matters in, 174, 175, 187, 

437 

colouring matters, recommenda- 
tions of Departmental Committee 
with regard to, 189, 438 
condensed, see Condensed milk 
dermatitis caused by, 67, 266, 273 



Milk, diarrhoea due to, 18, 266, 271 
diphtheria bacilli in, 269 
diphtheria bacilli in, detection of, 

287 

diphtheria due to, 266, 269 
dirt in, examination for, 284 
diseases due to, 266, 274 
dried, 8, 135 
effect of feeding materials on the 

flavour of, 274 
effect of Ehus toxicodendron on, 

274 

effect of heat on, 123 
effect of heat on the digestibility of, 

124 

effect of sterilization on, 123 
enteric fever due to, 266, 270, 427 
filtration of, 113, 121, 128 
fluoboric acid in, effects on souring, 

87 

fluoric compounds in, 87, 99, 107 
foot-and-mouth disease due to, 266 
formic aldehyde in, 56, 99, 103, 

384 
formic aldehyde in, danger to 

health from, 106 
formic aldehyde in, dermatitis 

caused by, 67 
formic aldehyde in, detection of, 

338 

formic aldehyde in, difficulty of 
estimating, 101, 103, 107, 138, 
342 

formic aldehyde in, effect on sour- 
ing, 57 
formic aldehyde in, estimation of, 

343 

formic aldehyde in (legal cases), 384 
formic aldehyde in, percentage of 

samples containing, 100 
gastro-enteritis due to, 279 
heated, see Pasteurized and steri- 
lized 
hydrofluoric acid in, effects on 

souring, 87 

hydrogen peroxide in, 94, 135 
hydrogen peroxide in, detection of, 

355 

infantile scurvy due to heated, 124 
leucocytes in, 279, 286 
lime in, 90 

meningitis due to tuberculous, 268 
microscopical examination of, 278, 

284 

moulds in, 279 
Oidium albicans in, 266, 288 
Oidium lactis in, 288 
oxygen in, 134 

pasteurized, 3, 99, 122, 127, 134 
pasteurized, relationship to infan- 
tile scurvy, 125 



INDEX 



475 



Milk, pasteurized, test for, 289 
powdered, 8, 135 

preservatives in, desirability of em- 
ploying, 103, 130, 433 
preservatives in, in relation to in- 
fantile mortality, 108 
preservatives in, necessity for the 

use of, 110, 434 
preservatives in, prevalence of the 

use of, 100 
preservatives in, prohibition in 

foreign countries, 439 
preservatives in, recommendations 

of Departmental Committee as 

to the use of, 438 

pus in, 272, 273, 277, 278, 279, 285 
pus in, examination for, 285 
red, 274 
refrigeration of, 5,99, 110, 113, 118, 

120, 128, 132, 133 
ropy, 274, 279 
salicylic acid in, 79, 99, 107 
salicylic acid in, detection and 

estimation of, 348 
salt in, 99, 103, 107 
saltpetre in, 99, 103, 107 
Sarcina rosea in, 274 
scarlet fever due to, 266, 269 
scrofula due to, 268 
soapy, 275 

sodium bicarbonate in, 108 
sore throat due to, 266, 272 
staphylococci in, 272, 279 
sterilized, 3, 99, 122 
sterilized, effects on nutrition of, 

126 
sterilized, relation of infantile 

scurvy to, 124 
sterilized, test for, 289 
straining of, 110, 113, 118, 121, 

133 

streptococci in, 272, 279, 285 
streptococci in, examination for, 

285, 286 
Supply Company of Copenhagen, 

115 

Supply, Pasteur, 127 
Tabes mesenterica due to, 267 
thrush due to, 266 
tinned, 6. See also Condensed milk 
tuberculosis due to, 266, 267 
turmeric in, 173 
tyrotoxicon in, 273 
tyrotoxicon in, examination for, 

325 

ulcerative colitis due to, 272 
unsound, 276, 285, 288, 290 
unsound condensed, 275, 290, 413 
unsound condensed, seizure of, 

413 
unsound, seizure of, 276 



Milk, vitality of pathogenic bacteria hi, 
271 

yellow, 274 

zymotic enteritis due to, 18, 266, 

271 

Minced meat, benzoic acid in, 85 
boron compounds in, 16 
sulphites in, 71, 76 

Mineral waters, antimony in, 198, 200 
Mites, in cheese, 291 

in meal, 297, 300 
Moulds, action on arsenic of, 198 

in bread, 301 

in fruit, 301, 302 

in jam, 301, 413 
Mouldy bread, 299, 300 

flour, 299 

jam, 301, 413 
Mucor mucedo, action on arsenic of, 

198 

in corn, 297 

Muscarine, poisoning by, 309 
Muscle, character of sound, 212 
Mushrooms, appearance of, 294, 296 

symptoms of poisoning by, 293 
' Muskins,' Bacillus typhosus in, 254 
Mussels, bacteriolgical examination of, 
262 

copper in, 249 

enteric fever due to, 249 

examination of, 247, 248 

poisoning by, 248 
Mustard, coal-tar dyes in, 184 

copper in, 179 

turmeric in, 176 
Mustard yellow, poisonous effects of, 

186 

Mydaleine, 309 
Mytilotoxine, 249 
Myxosporidia, 243, 244 



NAGANA, 244 

-naphthol, prohibited in America for 

foods, 440 
Natural death, sale of flesh of animals 

following, 215 
Netherlands, laws relating to the use of 

preservatives in, 440 
Neuridine, 246 
Neurine, 309 

Neuritis, due to arsenic, 191, 194, 196 
New York pure milk supply, 132 
Nitric acid, arsenic in, 358 

in wines prohibited in France, 

439 

Nitro-benzole poisoning, 185 
Nitrogen in Jones and Trevithick's 

process, 7 

Nitrogen metabolism, effects of borax 
on, 33, 34, 38, 49 



476 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Nitrogen metabolism, effects of boric 

acid on, 33, 34, 35, 37, 49 
effects of formic aldehyde on, 
65 



OATMEAL, Bacillus coli communis in, 

299 

illness caused by, 299 
Proteus vulgaris in, 299 
Oats, Bacillus coli communis in, 300 
Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes in, 

300 

smut in, 298 
<Edematous meat, 215 
Oidium albicans, in milk, 266, 288 
Oidium lactis, in milk, 288 
Oil used for ' facing ' rice, 373 
Oleo-butter colour, 175 
Orange II., poisonous effects of, 186 
Orange wine, salicylic acid in (legal 

cases), 388, 394 
Oxygen and carbonic acid, for preserving 

milk, 134 
Oyster layings, Bacillus coli communis 

in, 258 

Bacillus enteritidis sporo- 
genes in, 258 
Oysters, Bacillus coli communis in, 

255, 257 

Bacillus enteritidis in, 264 
Bacillus typliosus in, 255 
bacteriological examination of, 259, 

260, 262 

copper in, 179, 248 
diarrhoea due to, 251, 252, 253 
enteric fever due to, 250 
examination of, 247, 248 
green-bearded, 248 
illness caused by, 250 
native, 253 
Portuguese, 253 
seizure of contaminated, 414 
streptococci in, 258 



' PAIN biscuite,' 8 

Palisade worm, 242 

Parcreatin, action of benzoic acid on, 

85 

action of copper salts on, 177 
action of salicylic acid on, 80, 82, 

85 

Paraffin, used for ' facing' rice, 373 
Parasites, in animals, 230 
in cheese, 291 
in corn, 297 
in fish, 237, 244, 246 
Paratyphoid bacillus, as a cause of food 

poisoning, 314 
in excreta, 314 



Paratyphoid bacillus, in the normal 

intestine, 314 
Parturition, flesh of animals dying after, 

208, 215 
Pasteurization, 2, 3 

of alcoholic beverages, 151 
of temperance beverages, 158 
Pasteurized milk, 3, 99, 122, 127, 134 

relationship to infantile scurvy 

of, 124 
test for, 289 
Peas, copper in, 90, 179, 180, 183, 397, 

404, 408, 436 
copper in (legal cases), 397, 398, 

399, 400, 401, 404, 408 
Pellagra, 298 
; Penicillium breviculare, action on 

arsenic of, 198 

Penicillium glaucum, in corn, 297 
Pentastomes, 220, 242, 243 
Pepper, Cayenne, see Cayenne pepper 
| Pepsin, effects of benzoic acid on, 85 
effects of borax on, 25 
effects of boric acid on, 25 
effects of copper sulphate on, 177 
effects of formic alhehyde on, 59 
effects of salicylic acid on, 80, 82, 

85 

effects of saltpetre on, 14 
effects of sodium fluoride on, 88 
Perchloride of mercury, administration 

to dogs, 35 

Periwinkle, examination of, 248 
Perlsucht, 220, 240 
Peroxide of hydrogen, see Hydrogen 
Perry, estimation of boron compounds 

in, 333 

salicylic acid in, 79 
Phallin, 296 

Pheasants, fowl cholera in, 228 
Phosphoric acid, arsenic in, 193 
Phosphorus metabolism, effects of 
boron compounds on, 37, 38, 
49 
effects of formic aldehyde on, 

65 

Piccalilli, turmeric in, 176 
Pickles, detection of benzoic acid in, 

351 

sulphites in, 70 

Picric acid, as a colouring agent, 185 
poisonous effects of, 186 
prohibited in foreign coun- 
tries, 186, 439 
Pigeons, cholera in, 228 
diphtheria in, 229 
Pigs, actinomycosis in. 227 
anthrax in, 222 
coccidia in, 243 
cysticerci in, 235 
distoma in, 242 



INDEX 



477 



Pigs, echinocoeci in, 239, 240 
Echinorynchus gigas in, 242 
effects of administering boric acid 

to, 34 
effects of administering formic 

aldehyde to, 62 

foot-and-mouth disease in, 226 
1 measles ' in, 235 
Miescher's sacs in, 244 
pentastomes in, 242 
sarcosporidia in, 244 
strongylus in, 242 
swine erysipelas in, 224 
swine fever in, 224 
trichinosis in, 231 
tuberculosis in, 219 
Pike, Bothriocephalus latus in, 237 
Piophila casei, 291 
Piroplasmosis, 244 
Plants, copper in, 179 
Pleuro-pneumonia in cattle, 225 
Polonies, boron compounds in, 16 
Pork, Bacillus botulinus in, 313 
Bacillus coli in, 316 
boron compounds in, 16 
cysticerci in, 235 
echinocoeci in, 239 
illness due to, 304, 306, 313, 316, 

320 

Pork pies, Bacillus enteritidis in, 314 
boron compounds in, 16, 171 
poisoning by, 306, 314 
Port, salicylic acid in, 155 
Potatoes, dried, 8 
Potted fish, boron compounds in, 16, 

172, 382, 383, 384 
boron compounds in (legal 

cases), 382, 383, 384 
Potted meat, Bacillus coli in, 316 
benzoic acid in, 85, 171 
boron compounds in, 16, 171 
colouring matters in, 174 
microscopical examination of, 

245 

poisoning by, 316 
salicylic acid in, 79 
Potted shrimps, boric acid in (legal 

cases), 382, 383, 384 
Poultry, arsenic in, 194 

boron compounds in, 16 
diseases of, 228 
sulphites in, 70 
Powdered milk, 8, 135 
Pox in food animals, 226 
Preservation of foods by drying, 8 
by exclusion of air, 6 
by heat, 2 
by refrigeration, 4 
by smoking, 9 

Preservatives, conclusions and recom- 
mendations of the Departmental 



Committee with regard to the use of, 
431 

Preservatives employed in foods,, 
abrastol, or asaprol, 95 
alcohol, 92 
alum, 89 

ammonium acetate, 89 
benzoic acid, 85 
boron compounds, 16 
carbon dioxide, 134, 158 
copper salts, 89 
creosote, 9, 96 
dulcin, 93 

fluorine compounds, 87 
formic acid, 91 
formic aldehyde, 56 
hydrogen peroxide, 94 
lime, 90 
oxygen, 134 
pyroligneous acid, 96 
saccharine, 93 
salicylic acid, 78 
salt, 11 
saltpetre, 14 
sodium carbonate, 90 
sugar, 137, 162, 167 
sulphites, 70 
sulphuric acid, 90 

See also under the respective names. 
Preservatives in bacon, 165 

in beer, 152 

in bottled fruit, 162 

in British wines, 156 

in butter, 142 

in cheese, 141 

in cider, 154 

in cordials, 159 

in cream, 137 

in fish, 172 

in fresh meat, 165, 170 

in fruit, 162 

in game, 171 , 

in ham, 165 

in ketchups, 164 

in lime juice, 160 

in margarine, 149 

in medicated wines, 157 

in milk, 99 

in pork pies, 171 

in sauces, 164 

in sausages, 170 

in temperance beverages, 158 

in vegetables, 164 

in vinegar, 164 

in wine, 155 
See also tinder the respective foods 

and beverages. 

Preservatives, laws relating to the use 
of, in England, 375 

laws relating to the use of, in foreign 
countries, 439 



478 



PEESERVATIVES IN FOOD 



Preservatives, legal cases relating to the 

use of, 377 

methods of detection and estima- 
tion, 328 
Preserving food, Jones and Trevithick's 

process of, 7 
M'CalPs process of, 7 
Preservitas, 11, 16 
Prosecutions, under the Public Health 

Acts, 412 
under the Sale of Food and Drugs 

Acts, 377 
under the Sale of Goods Act, 1893, 

427 

Proteid metabolism, see Nitrogen meta- 
bolism 
Proteids, action of formic aldehyde on, 

56, 59, 60 

Proteus vulgaris, in oatmeal, 299 
Prussian blue, in confectionery, 173 
Ptomaine poisoning, 303, 308 

due to apparently sound food, 

303 

due to butter, 281 
due to fish, 246 
due to mussels, 249 
due to tinned food, 7, 303 
symptoms of, 7, 246, 309 
Ptomaines, examination of food for, 323 
in butter, 281 
nature of, 308 
tests for, 324 

Ptyalin, effects of benzoic acid on, 85 
effects of boron compounds on, 23 
effects of copper sulphate on, 177 
effects of formic aldehyde on, 58 
effects of salicylic acid on, 80, 85 
effects of saltpetre on, 14 
effects of sodium fluoride on, 88 
Public Health Act, 1875, seizure of 

unsound food under, 205, 412 
Public Health Acts (Amendment) Act, 
1890, seizure of unsound food under, 
206, 415 

Public Health (London) Act, 1891, 
seizure of unsound food under, 208, 
414, 420 

Pitccinia yraminis in corn, 297 
Putrescine, 246 
Pyaemia in animals, 225 
Pyroligneous acid, as a preservative, 96 
for curing herrings, 172 



QUARTER-ILL, in cattle, 223 

Quillaia bark, as a foam producer, 371 

Quillaic acid in saponin, 372 



RABBITS, coccidia in, 243 
echinococci in, 241 



Rabbits, effects of administering boric 

acid to, 34 
Rabies, 226 

Railways, ice-wagons on, 115, 116, 148 
Raisins, formic acid in, 91 
Raisin-wine, salicylic acid in (legal case) 

388 

' Ramsden's Milk Preserver,' 145 
Raspberries, caterpillars in, 301 
Raspberry wine, salicylic acid in, 156 
Red dysentery, in calves, 244 
Red milk, 274 
Refrigeration, 2, 4 

dangers of, 172 

effects on bacteria, 1, 5, 113 

effects on Cysticerciis bovis, 234 

effects on Cysticercus celluloses, 
235 

effects on Trichina spiralis, 231 

of butter, 5, 142 

of fish, 172 

of hams, 4 

of meat, 4, 165 

of milk, 5, 99, 110, 113, 118, 120, 

128, 132, 133 

. Reinsch's test, applied to beer, 357 
' Rennet, boron compounds in, 16 
Rennin, effects of benzoic acid on, 85 

effects of borax on, 27 

effects of boric acid on, 27 

effects of formic aldehyde on, 60 

effects of salicylic acid on, 85 
Reticularia ustilago, 298 
Bhus toxicodendron, 274 
Rice, Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes in, 
300 

damaged, 299 

' facing ' of, 373 
Rinderpest, 225 
Ropy milk, 274, 279 
Round worms, in food animals, 242 
Rubber, antimony in, 198, 200 

antimony in, detection and estima- 
tion of, 367 
' Rust ' in corn, 297 
Rye, ergot in, 298 



SACCHARIN, action on the digestive fer- 
ments of, 93 
in beer, 93, 152, 153 
in cider, 93, 154 
in cream, 137 

in foods, detection of, 347, 351 
prohibited in America, 440 
Saffron, as a colouring agent, 174, 186 
Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, 375 
Sale of Goods Act, 1893, 427 
Salicylic acid, action on adults, 80, 81, 

83 
action on animals, 83, 85 



INDEX 



479 



Salicylic acid, action on bacteria, 79, 86 
action on children, 81, 83 
action on diastase, 85 
action on epithelium, 83 
action on invertin, 85 
action on kidneys, 81 
action on pancreatin, 80, 82, 

85 

action on pepsin, 80, 82, 85 
action on ptyalin, 80, 85 
action on rennet, 85 
action taken by the United 
States Treasury with regard 
to, 84 

cumulative effects of, 83 
dermatitis caused by, 81 
detection of, 345 
dose of, 80 
estimation of, 349 
excretion of, 80, 83 
for preserving eggs, 171 
idiosyncrasy towards, 81 
impurities in, 79, 81 
in beer, 79, 80, 152, 153 
in beer, quantity required, 152 
in beverages, quantity required, 

80 
in British wines, 79, 80, 156, 

387, 394 
in British wines (legal cases), 

387, 394 
in butter, 79 

in butter, detection and estima- 
tion of, 348 
in cider, 79, 154, 435 
in cordials, 159, 160 
in cream, 79, 137, 138, 140 
in flowers, 78 

in foods, detection and estima- 
tion of, 345, 349 
in foods (legal cases), 387 
in foods, separation of, 345 
in fruit, 78 
in fruit juices, 159 
in herb beer, 160 
in jam, 78, 80, 162, 163, 391, 

394 

in jam, quantity required, 80 
in jam (legal cases), 391, 392, 

393, 394 

in ketchups, 79, 164 
in lemon juice, 79 
in lime juice, 79, 80, 84, 160, 

390, 395, 436 
in lime juice (legal cases), 

390, 395 

in marmalade (legal case), 393 
in meat extracts, 171 
in meat juice, 79, 171 
in medicated wines, 79, 157 
in milk, 79, 99, 107 



Salicylic acid, in milk, desirability of, 

107 

in milk, detection and estima- 
tion of, 348 
in perry, 79 
in potted meat, 79 
in sauces, 79, 164 
in sausages, 79 
in syrups, 79, 159 
in temperance beverages, 159, 

160, 435 

in wines, 78, 79, 80, 155, 435 
in wines, prohibited in France 

and Germany, 439 
irritation caused by, 79 
limitation recommended by 
Departmental Committee, 
438 

pharmacological action of, 80 
prohibition in foreign countries, 

439, 440 

tests for, 345, 347 
trade preparations of, 79 
Salicylism, 81 

Salmon, Bothriocephaltis latus in, 237 
illness due to tinned, 305 
lead in tinned, 202 
Sal preservare, 16 
Salt (sodium chl oride) , action on bacteria , 

13, 166, 313 
action on Cysticercus 

bovis, 234 

action on epithelium, 12 
action on the keeping 

quality of butter, 19 
action on Trichina 

spiralis, 232 
as a preservative, 11, 13, 

166 

deprivation of, 12 
for preserving eggs, 171 
in bacon, 11, 165, 167 
in butter, 11, 19, 142, 143, 

144, 145, 146, 147 
in cheese, 11 
in cream, 137, 138 
in fish, 11, 172 
in hams, 11, 12, 16G, 184 
in ketchups, 164 
in margarine, 149 
in meat, 11, 165 
in milk, 99, 103, 107 
in sauces, 164 
in vegetables, 164 
in wine, 155, 436 
pharmacological action of, 

12 
Salting of meat, effects on the nutritive 

value of, 166 
methods of, 165, 167 
Saltpetre, action on amylopsin, 15 



480 



PEESBRVATIVES IN FOOD 



Saltpetre, action on dogs, 15 

action on epithelium, 15, 32 

action on man, 14 

action on pepsin, 14 

action on ptyalin, 14 

as a preservative, 11, 14, 99 

dose of, 14 

excretion of, 14 

in bacon, 11, 166 

in butter, 11, 14, 143, 145 

in cream, 137, 138, 140 

in fish, 11, 172 

in ham, 12, 89, 166, 169 

in meat, 11, 14, 166 

in milk, 99, 103 

in milk, desirability of, 107 

in vegetables, 164 

pharmacological effects of, 14 
Salufer, 87 
Saponin, composition of, 372 

dose of, 371 

effects of administration to dogs, 
373 

in beer and syrups, 371 

in beer and syrups, desirability of, 
372 

in beer and syrups, detection of, 
373 

in beer and syrups, quantity em- 
ployed, 373 

pharmacological action of, 371, 
372 

prohibition in Austria of, 373 
Sapotoxin in saponin, 372 
Sapraemia in animals, 225 
Sarcina rosea in milk, 274 
Sarcosporidia, 243 
Sauces, benzole acid in, 164 

colouring matters in, 174, 176 

oxide of iron in, 176 

salicylic acid in, 79, 164 

salt in, 164 

sulphites in, 164 
Sausages, Bacillus botulinus in, 313 

benzole acid in, 85, 170 

boron compounds in, 16, 170, 383, 
384 

boron compounds in, estimation^, 
334 

boron compounds in (legal cases), 
383, 384 

colouring matters in, 174, 176, 184 

microscopical examination of, 245 

oxide of iron in, 176 

poisoning by, 304, 314, 318 

salicylic acid in, 79 

smoked, 171 

sulphites in, 171 

Scarlet fever, due to milk, 266, 269 
Schiff's reagent, preparation of, 340 
Schiff's test for formic aldehyde, 339 



Scrofula, due to milk, 268 

Scurvy in relationship to food, 13, 313 

Scurvy rickets in relationship to heated 

milk, 3, 124, 125 

Seizure of unsound food, see Food 
Sepsine, 309 

Septicaemia in animals, 225 
Sheep, actinomycosis in, 227 
anthrax in, 222 
braxy in, 209, 223 
coccidia in, 243 
Cysticercus celluloses in, 236 
Cysticerus tenuicollis in, 234 
distoma in, 241 

Sheep, echinococci in, 239, 240 
glanders in, 226 
Miescher's sacs in, 244 
pentastomes in, 242 
sarcosporidia in, 244 
strongylus in, 220, 242 
Sheep-pox, 226 
' Sheep rot,' 241 
Shell-fish, Bacillus typliosus in, 254, 

255, 264 
bacteria present in, 254, 255, 257, 

262 
bacteriological examination of, 260, 

262 

boron compounds in, 16 
cholera due to, 250 
enteric fever due to, 246, 249, 250, 

253 

examination of, 247 
seizure of, 257, 414 
See also Cockles, Mussels, Oysters, 

&c. 

Sherry, salicylic acid in, 155 
Shrimps, boron compounds in potted 

(legal cases), 382, 383, 384 
Sienna as a colouring matter in con- 
fectionery, 173 
Smoke, action on bacteria, 9 

action on Trichina spiralis, 232 
| ' Smokene,' 9 

Smoking, as a means of food preserva- 
tion, 9, 165, 171 
processes of, 9 
Smut in corn, 297 
Soapy milk, 275 

Sodium carbonate, in cream, 90, 141 
in milk, 90, 99 
in milk, desirability of, 108 
Sodium fluoride, action on peptic diges- 
tion, 88 

action on salivary digestion, 88 
estimation of, 337 
in beer, 89 
test for, 336 
Sodium fluosilicate, as a preservative, 

87 
detection of, 336 



INDEX 



481 



Sodium silicate, for preserving eggs, 6, 

172 

Sodium sulphite, in McCall's process, 7 
Sore throat due to milk, 266, 272 
Soups, colouring matters in, 174 
lead in tinned, 202 
tin in, 202 
Souring of milk, 17, 57 

effects of boron compounds 

on, 17, 19 

effects of fluorine com- 
pounds on, 87 
effects of formic aldehyde 

on, 57 

estimation of, 290 
Spices, colouring matters in, 174 
Spinach, copper in (legal cases), 400 
Staphylococci, action of salt on, 13 

in milk, 272, 279 

Starters, butter, 141, 143, 146, 147, 151 
Sterilization, as a means of preserving 

foods, 2 
of bottled and tinned foods, 162, 

165 

of cream, 140 
of jam, 162 
of milk, 3, 99, 122 
of temperance beverages, 158 
Sterilized milk, 3, 99, 122 

advantages and disadvantages 

of, 3, 123 

effects on nutrition of, 126 
relationship to infantile scurvy 

of, 124 
tests for, 289 

Strawberries, seizure of unsound, 421 
Streptococci in milk, 272, 279, 285 

in milk, method of detection of, 

285, 286 
Streptococcus conglomcratus, vitality in 

cheese, cream, and milk of, 271 
Streptococcus of erysipelas, effects of 

salt upon, 13 
Strongylidoe, 220, 242 
Strontium compounds in wines, pro- 
hibited in Germany, 439 
Sugar, arsenic in, 194 

as a preservative, 137, 162, 167 
burnt, as a colouring agent, 175 
chloride of tin in, 184, 194 
colouring matters in, 174, 184, 194 
invert, arsenic in, 193 
in wine, prohibited in Germany, 

439 

' Sugar of boron,' 154 
Sulphites, action on adults, 72 
action on bacteria, 74 
action on cats, 73 
action on colour of meat, 71, 76 
action on dogs, 73 
action on kidneys, 73 



Sulphites, action on meat, 71, 74 

arsenic in, 193 

detection of, 335 

dose of, 70 

estimation of, 335 

for preserving eggs, 171 

in anchovy paste, 70, 172 

in bacon, 166 

in beer, 70, 77, 79, 152, 153, 433 

in beer, quantities employed, 153 

in bottled fruit, 162 

in British wines, 156 

in cider, 71, 77, 79, 154 

in cordials, 70, 159, 160 

in fruit, 70 

in fruit juices, 159 

in fruit pulp, 163 

in game, 70 

in ham, 166 

in jam, 162 

in lemon syrup, 70 

in lime juice, 70, 84 

in meat, 70, 71, 74, 170, 432 

in pickles, 70 

in poultry, 70 

in sauces, 164 

in sausages, 171 

in syrups, 159 

in temperance beverages, 159, 160 

in tinned fruits, 162 

in vegetables, 164 

in vinegar, 70, 164 

in wines, 70, 72 

pharmacological action of, 70, 72 

prohibition in America of, 440 

tests for, 335 

trade preparations of, 70 
Sulphonal, poisoning by, 185 
Sulphur dioxide, action on bacteria of, 

70 

action on epithelium of, 72 
in jams, 163 

in Jones and Trevithick's pro- 
cess, 7 
Sulphuric acid, arsenic in, 192 

arsenic in, elimination of, 358 
in vegetables, 164 
in vinegar, 90, 164 
prohibition in wines in France 

of, 439 
Sulphurous acid, arsenic in, 193 

prohibition in America of, 440 
Surra disease, 244 
Swine erysipelas, 224 
Swine fever, 224 
Switzerland, laws relating to the use of 

preservatives in, 440 
Syrups, arsenic in, 193 

cochineal in, 173 

colouring matters in fruit, 174 

foam producers in, 371 

31 



482 



PEESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Syrups, preservatives in, 159 
salicylic acid in, 79, 159 
sulphites in, 159 



TABES MESKNTL-RICA, due to milk, 267 
Tcenia echinococcus, 238, 293 
TcBnia marginata, 234 
Tcenia mediocanellata, 233 
Tcenia solium, 235 

symptoms produced by, 236 
Tapeworms, 233 
Tartaric acid, arsenic in, 193 

lead in, 202 
Tea, lead in, 202 

Temperance beverages, alcohol in, 158 
antimony in, 198, 200 
boron compounds in, 159, 160 
carbonic acid in, 158 
colouring matters in, 174, 184 
filtration of, 158 
formic aldehyde in, 56, 159, 

160, 435 

pasteurization of, 158 
preparation of, 159 
preservatives in, 158, 159, 160, 

435 
preservatives in, necessity for, 

159, 160, 161 

salicylic acid in, 159, 160, 435 
sterilization of, 158 
sulphites in, 159, 160 
Tetanus in animals, 226 
Texas fever, 244 
' Thermophylic ' bacteria, 1 
Throat, sore, due to milk, 266, 272 
Thrush, due to milk, 266 
Tilletia caries, 297 
Tilletia tritici, 297 
Tin, lead in, 201, 202 

in foods, danger to health from, 7, 

8,204 
in foods, detection and estimation 

of, 367 
Tin chloride, arsenic in, 194 

in sugar, 183, 194 
Tinned fish, poisoning due to, 303 
Tinned food, bacterial spores in, 301 

examination of, 7, 275, 290, 

304 

lead in, 7, 202 

poisoning by, 8, 303, 304, 305 
tin in, 7, 204 
unsound, 7, 275, 290, 304, 412, 

413 
unsound (legal cases), 412, 

413 

zinc in, 7 

Tinned meat, poisoning by, 303, 305 
Tinned milk, see Condensed milk 
Tinned salmon poisoning, by, 305 



Tinned tongue, poisoning by, 305 
Tins, blown, 7, 275, 290, 304, 412, 

413 

Tongue, boron compounds in, 16, 184 
colouring matters in, 184 
creosote in, 184 
salt in, 184 
smoking of, 171 
tinned, poisoning by, 305 
' wooden,' 227 
Toxalbumin in cheese, 283 
Toxins, effect of heat on, 311, 313, 314, 

317, 324, 325 
' extracellular,' 310 
in cheese, 283 

in food, examination for, 324 
' intracellular,' 310 
nature of, 309, 324 
of Bacillus botulinus, 313 
poisoning by, 309 
tests for, 324 
Treacle, arsenic in, 193 
Trichina spiralis, 231 

effect of cold on, 231 
effect of heat on, 232 
effect of pickling on, 232 
effect of smoking on, 232 
Trichinosis, 230 

examination of carcass for, 232 
symptoms of, 232 
Trimethylamine, 246 
Tropaeolins, 175, 185 
Trout, BothriocepJialus latus in, 237 
Trypanosomata, 244 
Trypsin, action of borax on, 29 
action of boric acid on, 29 
action of formic aldehyde on, 60 
Tubercle bacillus, see Bacillus tubercu- 
losis 

Tuberculosis, due to milk, 266, 267 
in cows, 119, 266 
relationship between human and 

bovine, 216 
Tuberculous meat, method of dealing 

with, 219 

method of examining, 219 
seizure of (legal case), 422 
Tuberculous milk, 266 
Tumours in food animals, 215 
Turkeys, fowl cholera in, 228 
Turmeric, as a colouring matter, 173, 

174 

in mustard, 176 
in piccalilli, 176 
Turnipy butter, 141 

Typhoid bacillus, see Bacillus typhosus 
Typhoid fever, see Enteric fever 
Tyrotoxicon, in dairy produce, 149, 273, 

281, 282, 325 
poisoning by, 282 
tests for, 325 



INDEX 



483 



ULTBAMABINE as a colouring matter, 
186 

Umber as a colouring matter in con- 
fectionery, 173 

United States, action taken with regard 
to benzoic and salicylic acids in food 
by the Treasury of the, 84 

Unsound food, see Bread, Cheese, Food, 
Fruit, Meat, Milk, &c. 

Uranium, prohibited as a colouring 
matter in Germany, 186 

Uroglena, action of copper salts on, 177 

Urotropine, dose and action of, 66 

Ustilago segetum in corn, 297 



VACCINATED animals, flesh of, 226 
Veal, poisoning due to unsound, 305, 

315, 317, 318, 319, 320 
Vegetables, alum in, 89 

bacterial spores in tinned, 301 

boron compounds in, 164 

colouring matters in, 173, 174 

copper salts in, 90, 164, 173, 176, 
179, 187, 204, 397. See also 
Peas. 

copper salts in, detection and esti- 
mation of, 365, 366 

copper salts in (legal cases), 397 

copper salts in, recommendations 
of Departmental Committee con- 
cerning, 189, 438 

copper salts in, solubility in the 
digestive juices of, 183 

dried, 8, 164 

enteric fever due to, 292 

examination of, 302 

formic aldehyde in, 164 

hydatid disease due to, 293 

lead in tinned, 202 

salt in, 164 

saltpetre in, 164 

sulphites in, 164 

sulphuric acid in, 164 

vinegar in, 164 

See also Peas, Spinach, Water-cress &c. 
Venison, boron compounds in, 16 
Verdet in maize, 298 
Vermilion as a colouring matter, 185 
Vibrio tritici, 297, 300 
Vinegar, arsenic in, 193 

as a preservative, 93, 164, 172 

boron compounds in, 16, 164 

formic aldehyde in, 164 

sulphites in, 70, 164 

sulphuric acid in, 90, 164 



WALL-PAPERS, arsenic in, 197 
Walter Gregory's powder, 79, 154 
Water, aerated, lead in 201 



Water, aerated, detection and estimation 
of copper in, 365 

aerated, detection and estimation of 
lead in, 365 

detection and estimation of copper 
in, 365 

detection and estimation of lead in, 
365 

lead in, 200 

Water-cress, enteric fever due to, 293 
hydatid disease due to, 293 
Water-glass, see Sodium silicate 
Wearing apparel, arsenic in, 197 
' Wens ' in cattle, 227 
Wheat, Bacillus coli communis in, 300 

Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes in, 
300 

bunt in, 298 

copper in, 179, 180 
Whisky, copper in, 179 
Wine, abrastol in, detection of, 344 

alcohol in, 93, 155 

arsenic in, neuritis due to, 196 

barium compounds prohibited in 
Germany in, 439 

benzoic acid in, 85 

boron compounds in, 16 

boron compounds in, estimation of, 
333 

boron compounds in, prohibited in 
France and Germany, 439 

carbonic acid in, 155 

coal-tar dyes prohibited in Ger- 
many in, 439 

colouring matters in, 176, 184 

glycerine prohibited in Germany 
in, 439 

hydrochloric acid prohibited in 
France in, 439 

impure spirits and starch sugar 
prohibited in Germany in, 439 

kermes berries prohibited in Ger- 
many in, 439 

laws relating to the use of pre- 
servatives in Germany in, 439 

laws relating to the use of pre- 
servatives in France in, 155, 436, 
439 

logwood in, 176 

magnesium compounds prohibited 
in Germany in, 439 

method of making, 155 

necessity for use of preservatives in, 
155, 436 

nitric acid prohibited in France in, 
439 

' plastering ' of, 155 

salicylic acid in, 78, 79, 80, 155, 435 

salicylic acid in, detection of, 347 

salicylic acid in, prohibited in 
France and Germany, 439 



484 



PKESEEVATIVES IN FOOD 



Wine, salt in, 155, 436 

strontium compounds prohibited 

in Germany in, 439 
sulphites in, 70, 72 
sulphuric acid prohibited in France 

in, 439 

Wine, black currant, salicylic acid in, 80 
Wines, British, benzoic acid in, 156 
formic aldehyde in, 156 
preservatives in, desirability 

of, 156 
preservatives in, necessity for, 

156 

preservatives in, opinion of 

the Departmental Committee 

as to the necessity for, 157, 

436 

salicylic acid in, 79, 80, 156, 

387, 394 

sulphites in, 156 
Wines, ' home made,' 157 
Wines, medicated, benzoic acid in, 85 



Wines, medicated, boi'ic acid in, 157 

desirability of presence of pre- 
servatives in, 157 
salicylic acid in, 79, 157 

Wines, sacramental, benzoic acid in, 85 

Winkles, examination of, 248 

' Wooden-tongue ' in cattle, 227 

Worms in cheese, 291 



YEAST, arsenic in, 193 

Yeasts, alcoholic fermentation by, 151 

' wild,' 151 
Yellow milk, 274 



ZINC, action on bacteria, 178 

arsenic in, 359 

in tinned foods, 7 

prohibited as a colouring matter in 

Germany, 186 
Zymotic enteritis, see Diarrhoea 



PRINTED BY 

8POTTJSWOODE AND CO. LTD., NEW-STREET SQUARE 
LONDON 



s i 

i O i 

H* 

I -8! 

i CJi 

W i H I 

O J-t i ,i 

* H 3; * i 

to -pi "'i 

<O $H i t3 : 

<J; oi 

j f 



Oi 

PHJ 

CJ! 

a 



fii 
o| 

i 
TO; 
^ 



Td 
fi 
oJi 



jj 

H 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




BHBBBB 

rafimEHfiRRHBiHwHHRni 

HffimHHHfflljHHHHHHi 

SHffl^mlfflffiHHNHl I 

^^^^K^Hnnffli^ 



jHBJHPHfflffllfli 




