

iP^LVXpTi 


^^^ 


/v'h! 


mi 


(Lii) 


|» 




^1 IN 
... 


S^||f.„ 



BOSTOISI 
PUBLIC 
UBRARY 




THE NEW LUCILE 

COOK BOOK 




COMPLIMENTS OF 

Acker, Nerrall & Condit Company 



Copyright, 1906 
(All rights reserved) 






THK P. H. WAKKKN CO., PRINTERS, BOSTON. MASS. 



OF THE 

^cfeer, jHerrall Sc Conbit Company 

is organized with a definite purpose: It is intended to 
satisfy the requirements of the purchaser who is be- 
yond the personal influence of our salesmen. It sup- 
plies the wants of the large number of out-of-town 
residents, who are desirous of securing City quality at 
City prices, without the inconvenience and discomforts 
of travel. 

We have the most varied and choicest stock of 
Groceries, Liquors, Cigars and Perfumery in the 
World; everything you require in food products. 

Our brand — AMCEHAT — is your protection; 
everything bearing this label is Pure — Wholesome 
— Clean. 

^cfeer, iWerrall & Conbit Companp 

MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT 

135-137 West 42d Street, N. Y. City 

Orders of $20.00 or over will be delivered throughout the 
Eastern, Middle, or Southeastern States freight prepaid. 



THE STORES OF 

Acker, Nerrall & Condit Company 



NEW YORK 

130-132 Chambers Street 

135-139 West 42d Street 

5th Avenue and 42d Street 

57th Street and 6th Avenue 

7 2d Street and Amsterdam Avenue 

2675 Broadway 

125th Street and 7th Avenue 

Mail Order Department— 135-137 West 42d Street 

1215-1219 Fulton Street Brooklyn 

Hoyt and Fulton Streets Brooklyn 

301 Central Avenue Far Rockaway, L. I. 

67 Broadway Flushing, L. I. 

49 South 4th Avenue Mt. Vernon, N. Y. 

Main Street Yonkers, N. Y. 

NEW JERSEY 

Brighton Avenue Long Branch, West End 

5 South Street Morristown 

599-601 Bloomfield Avenue Montclair 

CONNECTICUT 

21 Greenwich Avenue Greenwich 

129-133 Atlantic Street Stamford 

RHODE ISLAND 
299 Thames Street Newport 

MARYLAND 
220 North Charles Street Baltimore 



INDEX 








Bread and Breakfast Cakes .... 193-210 


Butter and Cheese 






166 


Cake . . . . *. 






241-256 


Candies 






281-283 


Custards and Creams . 






259-267 


Frozen Dainties 
T-. J Sherbets .... 
D^«^=^^^ Water Ices . . . 
^Ice Cream 






269 

275-278 
278-280 
269-275 


Eggs and Omelets 






134-139 


Fish 






21-34 


Fish (Shell) 






35-45 


Forty Recipes of the "P^our Hundred" 






295-302 


Fritters 






191, 192 


Frosting and Filling for Cake . 






257, 258 


Game ...... 






103-115 


Jellies and Jams .... 






174-178 


Ketchup ..... 






184, 185 


Macaroni and Spaghetti 






163-165 


'Beef 

TLjf ) Mutton and Lamb 

ME^-^^Pork 

LVeal 






46-58 
59-65 
75-84 

65-74 


Pastry 






211 


Pie 






212-222 


Pickles ...... 






180-185 


Poultry • 






85-102 


Preserves ..... 






168-173 


Puddings 






223-236 


Sauces (For Meats and Fish) 






116-122 


Sauces (For Puddings) 






237-240 


Salads ...... 






123-133 


Salad Dressing .... 






131-133 


Sandwiches . . . • . 






186-190 


Soups ...... 






7-20 


Summer Beverages 






289-294 


Tea, Coffee and Chocolate 






285-288 


Vegetables 






141-163 




^Recipes for making the following exquisite desserts will be 
furnished free upon application : 



Angostura Grape Ice 
Angostura Grape Fruit 
Angostura Lemon Ice 



Angostura Wine Jelly 
Angostura Sherbet 
Tulti-Frulti Ice 



^Also the following delicious drinks : 

Cardinal Punch Tokay Punch 

Tutti-Frutli Punch 

^The popular appetizer is Sherry and Angostura 

SEND FOR BOOK OF RECIPES 

J. W. WUPPERMANN 



44 West 34th Street 



NEW YORK, N. Y. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



SOUP. 

''The fate of Nations depends upon how they ate fed. ■' 

Soup properly prepared is so wholesome and nutritious, and adds 
so much to the elegance of a dinner, that we could wish all our 
readers might succeed with at least a few of the more delicious 
kinds. 

Always put the meat to cook in cold water, for the reason that 
the juices are required in the soup, when if put into boiling water 
the pores will be closed at once and the juices retained. 

Never allow to boil rapidly, but let the kettle stand on the back 
of the stove or range and simmer slowly. Remove carefully the 
scum that will rise as the soup nears the boiling point; add cold 
water, a little at a time, to keep the liquid from boiling until it has 
been thoroughly skimmed, as without this precaution the soup will 
not be clear. 

Boil the meat several hours, or until it is very tender and falls 
easily from the bone; when done pour into an earthen crock and let 
stand until cool, or over night. In the morning remove every parti- 
cle of fat from the top of the stock, take out the meat and bones, and 
return the soup to the kettle ; it is now ready for the vegetables, and 
they will be sufficiently cooked in an hour. Fifteen minutes before 
the soup is removed from the fire add the herbs, as if they are boiled 
too long much of their delicate flavor escapes in the steam. Always 
strain before serving. 

If you wish to clarify your soup, proceed as follows: Beat the 
white of one egg for every quart of soup, stir the beaten egg into half 
a pint of cold water, now add a pint of the hot soup, stirring con- 
stantly; remove the kettle from the fire, stir in the mixture and re- 
turn to the fire. When near boiling, the egg will separate and be- 
gin to rise; remove at once from the fire and strain. 

Be chary of salt. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

Many kinds of soup are improved by the added flavor of fried 
bread or croutons. Cut stale bread in little square or dice shaped 
pieces and fry in drippings until a golden brown, put into the soup- 
tureen and pour the soup over. A medium sized slice of bread will 
be sufficient for two quarts of soup. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



VEGETABLES FOR SOUP. 

Celery and parsley roots, onions and leeks are the most suitable 
for this purpose. They should be well washed, then scraped, and 
again washed. The celery root should be cut up into small pieces; 
the onions may be put in whole; the leeks and parsley root cut into 
pieces about one inch long. To make soup for six persons half a 
large root of celery, two middle-sized onions, one leek, and a few 
pieces of parsley, would be the proper quantity. 

BOUILLON— BEEF. 

Put into the soup-kettle four pounds of lean beef, two pounds of 
breast of veal, and a year-old chicken; add six quarts of water (cold) 
and place on the stove where it will boil very slowly. Remove every 
particle of scum as it rises. Add, as it boils away, more water, as 
this quantity of meat should make six quarts of strong bouillon. Boil 
from three to four hours, or until the meat is very tender. Remove 
from the fire and set in a cool place over night, or until cool. Re- 
move carefully all the fat from the stock, and take out the meat ; put 
the kettle on the stove and add the following vegetables: One head 
of celery, three carrots, a small turnip and one onion previously roasted 
in the oven or before the fire until a nice brown. Slice the vegetables 
quite thin before putting them into the soup. Boil an hour, adding 
at the last salt and pepper to taste. If a smaller quantity of soup is 
desired, use less meat. If preparing bouillon for an invalid, it is 
better to omit all the vegetables except celery. 

JULIENNE. 

Clean, cut in slices and fry in butter or drippings, until slightly 
browned, two or three carrots, a small turnip, three or four celery 
stalks and an onion. Have ready three quarts of good stock, skimmed 
and strained; add the vegetables and simmer an hour; half an hour 
before it is done, add a quarter of a small head of cabbage, finely 
shred and parboiled, and a teacupful of cooked tomatoes or three 
large ripe ones, thinly sliced. Season with pepper and salt and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Put two dozen croutons in your soup- 
tureen, pour the soup over them and serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



TO MAKE MUTTON BROTH QUICKLY. 

One or two chops from a leg of mutton, one pint of cold water, 
a small bunch of sweet herbs, one quarter of an onion, pepper and 
salt to taste. Cut the meat into small pieces; put into a saucepan, 
with bones, into cold water, but no skin or fat ; add the other ingredi- 
ents ; cover the saucepan, and bring the water quickly to a boil ; take 
the lid off, and continue the rapid boiling for twenty minutes, skim- 
ming, as well, during the process; strain the broth into a basin. If 
there should be any fat left on the surface, remove it by laying a 
thin piece of paper on the top ; the greasy particles will adhere to the 
paper, and so free the preparation from them. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Cut a cleaned ox-tail at each joint and fry five minutes in butter 
or good dripping. Take out the meat and put into a warmed soup- 
kettle while you fry a sliced onion in the dripping left in the frying- 
pan. Turn this, with the fat, upon the pieces of ox-tail, rinse out 
the frying-pan with hot water and add this to the soup-kettle. Now 
cover with two quarts of cold water; slice a carrot thin, mince four 
stalks of celery and add these to the water. Cover closely and simmer 
for five hours. Season to taste and set aside until next day, remove 
the fat and strain the liquor from meat and vegetables. Pick out the 
best joints and return to the soup. Heat to a fast boil, skim, add 
kitchen bouquet to taste, and serve. There should be two or three 
joints in each portion. Some cooks slice two or three very small car- 
rots, parboil them and put into the strained liquor with the joints 
before giving the last boil. 

' CLEAR BROWN SOUP. 

After making, cooling and skimming your stock as directed in the 
beginning of this chapter, measure out a quart ; put over the fire and 
when lukewarm stir in the white of a raw egg. Bring quickly to a 
boil, stirring all the time. As soon as it bubbles, take from the fire, 
pour in a little very cold water and let it stand for three minutes. 
Then pour slowly ofiF the dregs through a flannel bag, or a double 
cloth. Let it drip as you would jelly. When all has run through, 
return to the. fire with a little soaked tapioca, or a handful of "ma- 



lo The New Lucile Cook Book. 

nestra," such as comes in shapes for soups; simmer five minutes, color 
with kitchen bouquet, or with caramel, and serve. 

MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. 

Joint a large fowl, as for fricassee, and cut into small pieces a 
pound of lean veal. Slice two onions and fry them in butter; pare, 
quarter and core two sour apples. Put all these into a saucepan with 
six quarts of cold water. Add four cloves and four peppercorns, 
cover closely and let it simmer until the fowl is tender. Remove it 
and cut the meat from the bones into small pieces. Return the bones 
to the kettle and add one level tablespoonful of curry powder, one 
level teaspoonful, each, of salt and sugar mixed to a smooth paste 
with a little water. 

Simmer another hour, or until reduced one-half, strain the soup, 
let it stand all night and remove the fat. Put it on to boil again, 
add the pieces of fowl and one cupful of boiled rice. This will make 
a large quantity of soup. Send around with it bananas, chilled by 
burying them in ice, for those who relish this accompaniment to curry 
dishes. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cut up a chicken and break the bones; cook until very tender in 
three quarts of water, adding water as it boils away, so that when 
done there will be three quarts of soup. Boil very slowly, and when 
done remove the meat and bones from the kettle, pour the soup into 
an earthen dish and let stand until cold, then remove every particle 
of fat from the stock, put into a saucepan and set on the stove. Have 
ready half a cupful of rice, looked over and washed, which add to 
the soup. Fry in a little butter one small onion, two or three stalks 
of celery, half a small turnip and one carrot; add to the soup and 
boil slowly for one hour. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one slice of onion, three stalks of 
celery, one cupful of cream, three tablespoon fuls of rice, salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion, and brown in butter. Add the turkey carcass 
and any dressing left over, cover with one quart of cold water and 



The New Lucile Cook Book. n 



simmer for two hours. Strain, return the broth to the kettle. Chop 
whatever meat can be taken from the turkey bones very fine, and add 
tc the broth with the rice and celery also chopped fine. Cook for one- 
half of an hour, or until the rice and celery are tender. Add the 
cream, season and serve. 

CHICKEN BOUILLON. 

Cut a four-pound fowl into pieces and put it over the fire with 
four quarts of cold water. Bring very slowly to the boiling point, 
and simmer gently for three hours, or until the meat is so tender that 
it slips from the bones. Add half of a sliced onion and three stalks 
of celery, and simmer for an hour longer. Turn into a bowl and set 
in a cold place for some hours. When thoroughly chilled, remove 
the fat from the surface of the soup, strain out the bones and skim. 
If the liquor is jellied after skimming it, set it on the fire long enough 
to melt the jelly from the bones. Strain through coarse muslin, 
letting it drip through, but not squeezing the bag. Put over the fire, 
and, when lukewarm, throw in the unbeaten white and broken shell 
of an egg; stir to a quick boil and again strain through muslin after 
seasoning to taste. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Cut a fowl at every joint and fry for five minutes in good drip- 
ping or in butter. Remove the meat and put into a soup-kettle. 
Cook two sliced onions in the fat left in the frying-pan. Put into 
the kettle with the chicken half a pound of lean salt pork, or corned 
ham, cut into small bits, and the fried onions. Add two quarts of 
cold water, and bring slowly to a boil, after which you should let it 
simmer two hours. Add, now, two dozen young okra pods, half a 
pod of green pepper, chopped, and half a can of tomatoes, or a pint 
of fresh, cut small, and simmer till the chicken is tender. Remove 
the larger bones, add salt to taste, and five minutes before serving 
add one pint of fine, sweet corn pulp, scraped from the cob, or one 
small can of canned corn, or one pint of oysters. Stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour, boil a few minutes and serve. If 
fresh okra cannot be obtained, use the canned. 



When and What to Drink 



^ DINNER (de Luxe) 

Appetizet — A "Tailhm" French Vermouth Cocktail, with or 

without Giibey Dry Gin. 
Oysters — A Dry Rliine Wine or Haut Barsac. 
Soup — Madeira or Dark East India Sherry. 
Fish — Haut Sauterne or Hock. 
Entrees — Vintage Claret. 

Roast — Burgundy (Pommard or Chambertin). 
Game — Champagne — not too dry. 
Pastry — Old East India Madeira. 
Fruit — A Sweet Sauterne (Chateau d'Yquem). 
Coffee — Fine Champagne Cognac or Liqueurs. 

All_ Wines should be served at the temperature of the room in which the 
Dinner is served, with the exception of Champagnes, which should be coU, but 
not frozen. 

Sautemes should be cool, but not coU. 

A later fashion has introduced a "Red" or "White" Dinner. Only Clarets, 
Burgundies and Ports are used at the former, and Rhine Wines, Sautemes and 
Sherries for the latter, but Champagnes are en regie at both — also Brandy and 
Liqueur. 

A SELECTION OF SUITABLE WINES AT 
MODERATE PRICES 

Champagne — "Ayala" Magnet Brand — the highest class of 

Champagne. 
Claret — Chateau Moulin de Soubeyrau Champagne — Chateau 

bottled Vintage 1900, 
Sautemes — Haut Sautemes Vintage 1899. 

Chateau La Tour Blanche Vintage 1900. 
Burgundy — Pommard & Chambertin "old" in Bottle. 
Hock — "Eltviller," a high-class Dinner Wine. 
Moselle — "Wintricher," a fine Dinner Wine. 
Port — "D," a fine Dry Wine, 11 years in wood. 
Sherry — Pale Solera, a soft delicate flavor "Dry." 
Madeira — A fine Wine old in Bottle — East India Style. 
Brandy — Boutelleau "Liqueur Brandv," white l.ilici, gold 

letters. 
Liqueurs — Rocher Freres — the finest in the world. 



Acker, Merrall & Condit Company 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 13 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 

The day before the soup is desired take lamb and veal bones (of 
course there is meat upon them), break them; put them in the soup- 
kettle, cover with cold water and boil three hours, adding hot water 
as it boils away, so as to keep the same quantity of soup, then set 
away until morning. A little while before the soup will be required, 
remove fat and bones, place upon the stove; when hot add a small 
onion, previously sliced and fried to a dark brown ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce. Season with pepper and salt. Any 
sweet herb may be added. Strain soup, return to kettle, and put in 
a quarter of a pound of vermicelli which has been boiled tender. Let 
;t boil well and serve. 

VERMICELLI SOUP (FOR INVALIDS). 

One pound of meat (beef, mutton, veal, alone or mixed poultry 
cuttings), I ounce gelatine, one ounce vermicelli, three pints cold 
water; seasoning if allowed. 

Cut up the meat and place with all the ingredients into a jar (first 
having soaked the gelatine in the cold water), soak for an hour, then 
simmer for several hours, stirring from time to time. Strain through 
a sieve. This may be given to an invalid in the form of a jelly, or 
again may be taken up hot with the addition of a little milk or cream, 
added at the time of serving. 

CHOCOLATE SOUP. 

A NOURISHING FOOD FOR CHILDREN. 

Ingredients. — One-quarter pound chocolate, tw^o and one-half 
quarts milk and water, sugar to taste, one egg yolk, a little vanilla or 
cinnamon. Cook the chocolate soft in a little water and add the rest ; 
when boiling, put in the other ingredients, and cook the beaten white 
of an egg in spoonfuls on top. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

After cutting off the head, let the turtle hang for four or five 
hours, with the neck downwards, to bleed; then separate the two 
shells with a knife, being careful to remove the entrails whole, which 



i4 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



throw away. The claws and fleshy parts are served, and any of the 
turtle meat not required for the soup, saved for entrees. Clean and 
boil in water enough to cover until the shells of the claws loosen. 
Remove and place in cold water for two or three minutes, then drain, 
cut into small pieces and put into about two quarts and a half of 
soup stock, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a sliced onion, pepper and 
salt. Cook slowly about three hours; remove from the fire, and 
strain; then return to the stove and thicken a little with browned 
flour and water made into a paste. Simmer for half an hour and add 
the green fat cut into lumps about three-quarters of an Inch square, 
and a few force-meat balls (or if there are eggs in the turtle, use 
them; they should be cooked three or four hours by themselves), the 
juice of a lemon, a glass of sherry, or Madeira wine, and the soup 
is ready to serve. Use canned turtle if a live one cannot be procured. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Boil a calf's head until the meat leaves the bones. Leave it in the 
seasoned soup until next day, then take it out, scrape off the fat and 
remove the bones. Put the jellied stock over the fire with the bones, 
the ears, chopped, one grated carrot, one sliced onion, a bunch of soup 
herbs, a teaspoonful of allspice, a saltspoonful of paprika and salt to 
taste. Boil for one hour. Take from the fire, strain, thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in as much browned flour, add 
two teaspoonfuls of kitchen bouquet, and, when the soup is thickened, 
drop in the tongue and parts of the cheek cut into dice. Add a gill 
0[ sherry and the juice of a lemon and pour upon force-meat balls in 
a hot tureen. Make the force-meat balls by rubbing the brains to a 
paste with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a little browned flour, and 
let them stand in a quick oven until crusted over. 

BISQUE OF OYSTERS. 

One pint of oysters, one tablespoonful of butter, yolk of one egg, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain the oysters free from their liquor, adding sufficient cold 
water to make one cup of liquid. Chop half the oysters fine. Bring 
the oyster liquor to a boil, skim, add the chopped oysters and simmer 
ten minutes. 

Scald the milk; rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the milk and stir until it thickens. Add the whole ovsters to 



The New Lucile Cook Book, 15 

the oyster liquor, and as soon as the edges curl remove all from the 
fire. Add the beaten j^ollc of the egg to the milk, take at once from 
the fire and mix with the oysters and their liquor. Season and serve 
at once. 

LOBSTER BISQUE. 

Two cupfuls of lobster meat, minced fine; one quart of boiling 
water and the same of milk; half a cupful of butter and a cupful of 
fine cracker crumbs ; paprika or cayenne and salt to taste ; a teaspoon- 
ful of flour. 

Rub the coral and a quarter of the meat to a paste; leave this in 
enough boiling water to cover it for half an hour. Then put the 
resented chopped lobster into a saucepan, with the cracker crumbs 
and half the butter; stir in the hot water and coral, etc., with the 
rest of the quart of boiling water. Cook gently half an hour in a 
double boiler after the water in the other vessel begins to boil hard. 
Stir often. In another saucepan heat the milk (with a bit of soda) 
and the rest of the butter worked up with the flour. Boil one min- 
ute. Turn the lobster into the tureen ; stir in the hot milk and serve 
at once. 

CLAM BISQUE. 

Thirty clams ; one cupful of milk and half as much cream, or two 
cupfuls of milk; two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour; three 
eggs; a tablespoonful of onion juice; one cupful of boiling water; a 
pinch of soda in the milk; one cupful of cracker crumbs. 

Chop the clams and put over the fire in the boiling water. Sim- 
mer half an hour. Heat milk and cream in another saucepan with 
the soda and crumbs. Stir in the roux, boil one minute and pour 
gradually, beating all the time, upon the yolks, previously whipped 
smooth. Heat in a double boiler for two minutes, or until the water 
in the outer vessel boils hard, and turn into the tureen. Season the 
boiling mince of clams with salt, cayenne and minced parsley, add 
to the milk in tureen and cover the surface with the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a standing froth. 

In serving, dip the ladle deep into the bisque, but see that each 
plate is mantled by the meringue. 



1 6 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



SALMON SOUP. 

Salmon soup is also very nice and cheap, prepared according to 
the following recipe: Boil one onion until perfectly tender, drain off 
the water, and add half a can of salmon, a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, a lump of butter as big as a walnut, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour a quart of milk over all these ingredients, boil 
up and serve immediately with a few slices of hard-boiled egg and a 
dash of cayenne in the tureen. 

FISH SOUP. 

Slice three middling-sized onions and fry them with one ounce of 
butter till turning yellow, add three or four pounds of fish — bass, 
pike, trout, salmon, or any fish having a firm flesh ; add also two car- 
rots, two onions, sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove of garlic, a 
hay leaf, one clove, six peppercorns and salt ; cover the whole with 
cold water and boil gently for two hours ; add more water if needed ; 
strain and use. 

SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take two pounds of shin of beef and two pounds of knuckle of 
veal ; remove all the fat, and break the bones and take out the mar- 
low; put into a pot with five pints of water; add a teaspoonful of 
salt, and then cover and let it come to a boil quickly ; remove the 
scum that rises, and set where it will simmer for five hours; one hour 
before serving add two young carrots, scraped and cut in slices, half 
a head of celery and a small onion cut into squares; in half an hour 
add one turnip, sliced, and, in fifteen minutes, one cauliflower broken 
in small pieces. 

SAVORY POTATO SOUP. 

Crack a good marrow-bone well and put over the fire with three 
pints of cold water, a small sliced carrot, a stalk or two of celery and 
a grated onion. Cook slowly until boiled down to one-half the orig- 
inal quantity. Set aside until cold ; remove the fat, take out the 
bones, and rub the vegetables through a colander back into the soup. 
Heat quickly to a boil, and pour upon your mashed potato, gradually, 
working in smoothly as you go on. Turn into a double boiler and 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 17 

when again hot put In a great spoonful of chopped parsley. Have 
ready in another saucepan a good cupful of hot water, in which has 
been dropped a pinch of soda. Stir into this a teaspoonful of butter, 
rubbed up in one of corn starch. Cook three minutes, add to the 
potato soup, stir briskly for half a minute and put into the tureen. 
If properly seasoned this is a delicious family broth. 

TOMATO CREAM SOUP. 

Cook a quart of tomatoes soft and rub them through a colander, 
or drain the liquid from a can of tomatoes. Heat it over the fire, 
cooking with it a pinch of soda and a teaspoonful of onion juice. Cook 
together in another saucepan a tablespoonful, each, of butter and flour 
until they bubble, and then pour upon them a pint of hot milk. Stir 
until it thickens, salt and pepper the tomato to taste, and mix with it 
the thickened milk. Add half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce 
and serve at once. 

RICE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

One cup of rice, yolks of four eggs, three quarts of water, one 
spoonful of butter, one pint of milk, pepper and salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, rubbing dry. Put it in a saucepan 
with one pint of cold water; when swelled add o. e pint of boiling 
water, and when it begins to get very tender add the remaining pint 
of boiling water. Add the pepper and salt. Beat up the yolks of 
the eggs with a few tablespoonfuls of cream. When quite smooth 
stir in carefully a few spoonfuls of the boiling rice water, and then 
pour the eggs and cream into the saucepan, stirring very briskly. 
Draw aside and stir for two or three minutes, but do not allow the 
soup to boil after the eggs and cream have been poured in. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Cut a bunch of celery into small bits and put it over the fire in 
enough water to cover it. Stew until very tender; rub through a 
colander, and stir into it a pint of hot veal or other white stock. Cook 
together two tablespoonfuls of butter and the same of flour, and pour 
slowly upon them a pint of hot milk in which a pinch of soda has 
been dissolved. When thick and smooth, add gradually, stirring 



J 8 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



constantly, the celery and stock. Season with pepper and celery salt, 
and serve. 

ONION CREAM SOUP. 

Into a quart of mutton stock slice six large onions and simmer 
for an hour. Rub through a colander, return to the fire, and thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour, rubbed to a paste with two of butter. 
Bring a half pint of milk to the boiling point and stir it into the 
soup. Season with salt, white pepper and a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Cut the stalks of a bunch of asparagus into half-inch lengths, and 
boil slowly for an hour in three cups of salted water. When the 
stalks are tender, drain through a colander, pressing and rubbing the 
asparagus that all the juice may exude. Return the liquid to the fire 
and keep it hot while you cook together in a saucepan a tablespoonful 
of butter and one of flour, and pour upon them a quart of milk. Stir 
until smooth, and add the asparagus liquor slowly with a cupful of 
asparagus tips, already boiled tender. Have ready beaten the yolks 
of two eggs, pour the hot soup gradually upon these, stirring all the 
time; return to the fire for just a half minute, season to taste and 
serve. 

CORN AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, put into it two 
fine-cut onions, one bay leaf and six whole black peppers; cook five 
minutes without browning; add one tablespoonful of flour, stir and 
cook two minutes; then one can of tomatoes, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of white 
pepper; stir often and cook ten minutes. Next comes one pint of 
boiling water ; cook five minutes, rub the tomatoes through a sieve into 
a clean saucepan and add one can of corn, put it into the soup and 
boil fifteen minutes ; mix the yolks of two eggs with a half cupful of 
cream or milk, stir into the soup, and serve at once. 

ONION AND CUCUMBER SOUP. 

Cut and chop fine two large white onions and three cucumbers. 
Fry them for five minutes without browning, in one tablespoonful of 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 19 



butter; add one pint of boiling water and simmer for forty-five min- 
utes. Press through a sieve, getting as much pulp as possible. In 
another saucepan mix together one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour, add gradually one pint of hot milk and stir 
until smoothly thickened. Gradually mix this with the cucumber 
puree, season highly with salt and pepper and simmer for five min- 
utes. Serve with croutons. 

COLD FRUIT SOUPS. 

Cold fruit soups may be made from all kinds of summer fruits by 
stewing the fruit until tender, pressing through a sieve, adding an 
equal quantity of water and enough sugar to have slightly acid. Re- 
turning to the fire, add a slight thickening of arrowroot — one tea- 
spoonful to the pint — cook until clear, set away and serve very cold. 
Bouillon cups or small glass bowls are generally used for these soups. 

LIMA BEAN SOUP. 

One cup of lima beans, two cups of milk, one cup of water, one 
bay leaf, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one 
small onion, salt and pepper to taste. 

Slice the onion and brown in the butter; add the flour; stir until 
smooth and brown. Add the water, bay leaf and beans, and cook 
twenty minutes, or until the beans are soft. Press through a sieve. 
Scald the milk, add the beans and cook until thickened. Season and 
serve. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

Take cold beans, put in a stew-pan with one onion and three or 
four whole cloves, cover them with cold water, and boil till soft, then 
press them through a strainer and return to stove; season with salt 
and pepper to taste. When about to serve have ready two or three 
hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and a lemon, sliced thin; add when sending 
to the table. If one prefers a thinner soup omit lemon and eggs, 
using hot milk. Serve toast in small squares. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

Open a can of peas, turn off the liquor and pour over them enough 
cold water to cover them. At the end of half an hour drain the peas. 



20 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



put them into a saucepan with a pint of water and boil until they are 
reduced to a pulp. Rub through a colander and add a teaspoonful of 
granulated sugar. Thicken a pint of rich milk with a teaspoonful of 
flour rubbed into one of butter, and stir the pea puree into this. Cook 
for a minute, season to taste, and turn into a heated tureen. Have 
ready a handful of dice of fried bread to throw upon the surface of 
the soup just before it is sent to the table. 

A SIMPLE SOUP. 

An excellent soup which costs almost nothing and is both nutri- 
tious and palatable, may be prepared thus: Take one cupful of beans 
or split peas, soak them over night, and in the morning put over to 
boil in two quarts of water. When half done, pour off the water, 
and add fresh; cook slowly, adding water from time to time, as the 
liquid evaporates, to keep it up to the required quantity. Simmer 
until the beans or peas are tender enough to pass through a sieve 
easily; add a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, return to the 
fire and, after boiling up once more, season with pepper and salt, and 
pour into the tureen upon squares of nicely browned toast. 

POT-AU-FEU. 

Take four pounds of beef without any bone, tie it into shape, and 
put into a pot with six quarts of water; when the water is boiling, 
put in half an ounce of salt ; take two carrots, two turnips, one pars- 
nip, one head of celery, and after washing, tie them together with a 
piece of string and put in the pot after the meat has boiled an hour; 
then tie together one bay leaf, sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 
and add also, one onion, into which stick three cloves; when the vege- 
tables have been in the pot tw^o hours, add one cabbage cut in two; 
when the contents of the pot have simmered gently for four hours, 
remove the meat onto a hot dish, and garnish with the carrots, turnip 
and parsnip, and pour over it a little of the liquor; serve the cabbage 
in a hot vegetable dish ; strain the liquor through a colander, and put 
aside to cool ; do not remove the fat until required for use. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 21 



FISH. 

" Master I marvel how the Fishes live in the sea ! " 

" Why, as men do a-land : The great ones eat up the Httle ones. "' 

There is no reason why every houeswife cannot get up as good a 
shore dinner at home as she can buy at the shore. 

There is always a goodly supply of fish obtainable in the local 
market, and only a little care in cooking is necessary to make a meal 
as enjoyable as any that ever was graced by roast or round. 

Here are some hints about the choice of fish foods and their prep- 
aration. Choose those that have full and prominent eyes, thick, firm 
flesh, scales bright and fins stiff, and be careful to clean thoroughly 
inside and out. 

The garnishes for boiled fish are: Parsley, sliced beets, lemon or 
sliced boiled egg. Do not use the knives, spoons, etc., that are used 
in cooking fish for other food, or they will be apt to impart a fishy 
flavor. 

Fish to be boiled should be put into cold water and set on the fire 
to cook very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is 
done. Unless the fish are small, they should never be put into warm 
water; nor should water, either hot or cold, be poured on to the fish, 
as it is liable to break the skin ; if it should be necessary to add a little 
water while the fish is cooking, it ought to be poured in gently at the 
side of the vessel. 

Fish to be broiled should lie, after they are dressed, for two or 
three hours wath their insides well sprinkled with salt and pepper. 

When frying fish the fire must be hot enough to bring the fat to 
such a degree of heat as to sear the surface and make it impervious to 
the fat and at the same time seal up the rich juices. As soon as the 
fish is browned by this sudden application of heat, the pan may be 
moved to a cooler place on the stove that the process may be finished 
more slowly. 

Fat in which fish has been fried is just as good to use again for the 
same purpose, but it should be kept by itself and not be put to any 
other use. 



Gorton's Codfish 



Is the best product of New England's 
oldest industry- 
Ask best dealers for GORTON'S SEA 
PRODUCTS and you can get them. 
They are standard goods, and are 
always Reliable. 



GORTON-PEW 
FISHERIES COMPANY 

Gloucester, Mass. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 2j 



BAKED SHAD. 

Stuff it with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter and parsley, and 
mix this up with the beaten yolk of egg ; fill the fish with it and sew 
it up or fasten a string around it. Pour over it a little water and 
some butter, and bake as you w^ouM a fowl. A shad will require 
from an hour to an hour and a quarter to bake. Garnish with slices 
of lemon, w^atercress, etc. 

Boil up the gravy in which the shad was baked, put in a large 
tablespoonful of catsup, a tablespoonful of brown flour which has 
been w^et with cold water, the juice of a lemon and a glass of sherry. 
Serve in a sauce-boat. 

BAKED SALMON. 

Wipe your fish with a damp cloth, but do not lay it in water. Rub 
with a little salad oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay in a 
haking-pan and dash over it a cupful of boiling water in which two 
tablespoon fuls of butter have been melted. Bake, covered, basting 
every fifteen minutes. When done transfer to a hot platter and set 
in the open oven while you thicken the gravy left in the pan with 
corn starch wet with cold water, and season it with lemon juice and 
a dash of onion juice. A little tomato catsup is an improvement. Boil 
up once and pour into a gravy-boat. Send to the table with the 
salmon, which may be garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

BAKED PICKEREL. 

Carefully clean and wipe the fish, and lay in a dripping-pan with 
enough hot water to prevent scorching. A perforated sheet of tin, 
fitting loosely, or several muflfin rings, may be used to keep it off the 
bottom. Lay it in a circle on its belly, head and tail touching, and 
tied; bake slowly, basting often with butter and water. 

When done, have ready a cup of sweet cream or rich milk to 
which a few spoons of hot water has been added; stir in two large 
spoons of melted butter and a little chopped parsley ; heat all by set- 
ting the cup in boiling water; add the gravy from the dripping-pan 
and let it boil up once; place the fish in a hot dish, and pour over it 
the sauce. 



24 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

Or an egg sauce may be made with drawn butter; stir in the yolk 
of an egg quickly, and then a teaspoon of chopped parsley. It can 
be stuffed or not, just as you please. 

BAKED BLUE FISH. 

If the fish is large, score it down the back; place in a baking-pan; 
pour over it half a pint of hot salted water, in which you have melted 
two or three tablespoonfuls of butter. Baste often. When done, re- 
move to a hot platter, put two tablespoonfuls maitre d'hotel butter on 
it, and set in the oven until the butter is melted. Garnish with slices 
of lemon, and send to the table at once. 

HALIBUT STEAK BAKED WITH TOMATOES. 

Make a rich sauce of tomatoes, fresh or canned, seasoning with 
butter rolled in flour, sugar, pepper, onion juice and salt, adding, if 
j'ou have it, a sweet green pepper, seeded and minced. Cook fifteen 
minutes, strain, rubbing through a colander, and cool. Lay the hali- 
but in oil and lemon juice for an hour, place upon the grating of your 
covered roaster, pour the sauce over it; cover and bake twelve min- 
utes to the pound if the oven be good. Sift Parmesan cheese over the 
fish, and cook five minutes longer. Serve upon a hot dish, pouring 
the sauce over it. 

BAKED RED SNAPPER. 

Draw, clean and wipe a five-pound red snapper and w^ash inside 
and out with salad oil and lemon. Make a stuffing as follows: One 
well-beaten egg, one-half cupful of powdered cracker and one cupful 
of oysters, drained and chopped. Season with one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
eighth teaspoonful of paprika and one tablespoonful of minced pars- 
ley, and moisten with cream and oyster liquor. It should be quite 
moist. Fill the fish and sew the edges together with fine white 
cotton. 

Put a layer of minced fat pork on the grating of your covered 
roaster, lay a few slices of tomato and onion on the pork, then the 
fish on this. Dredge the top with salt and flour, and put on more 
minced pork. Place it in a hot oven, add a cupful of boiling water. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 25 



and cover. Baste often, and add more water after each basting. Bake 
about one hour. Remove to a hot dish and serve with sauce Hol- 
landaise. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Prepare a stuffing of fine bread crumbs, a little salt pork chopped 
very fine; season with sage, parsley, pepper and salt. Fill the fish 
with the stuffing, sew it up, sprinkle the outside with salt, pepper and 
bits of butter; dredge with i^our and bake one hour. Baste often. 
Serve with egg sauce or parsley sauce. 

BAKED MACKEREL.— Fresh. 

Dress as for broiling; bake in a quick oven, and serve with a 
sauce made as for broiled salt mackerel. Pour a tablespoonful of 
vinegar over the fish just as it is put into the oven. 

HALIBUT A LA DELMONICA. 

One tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, one-half cupful of mashed potatoes, two cupfuls of cream or 
milk, two cupfuls of cooked fish, three tablespoonfuls of butter, yolks 
of two eggs, salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the potato until light and creamy, with the yolk of one egg. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add the corn starch, stir until 
smooth. Add the cream, stir until the sauce thickens, take from the 
fire, add the remaining egg yolk, fish and seasoning. Fill a greased 
baking dish with alternate layers of potato and fish. Cover the top 
with bread crumbs mixed with the cheese and the remaining table- 
spoonful of butter, melted. Cook for twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

FISH TURBOT IN SHELLS. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, one cupful of cream or milk, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
two cupfuls of cooked fish, one tablespoonful of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the cream. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the scalded cream, stir until it thickens. Add the bread crumbs 
and cook on the back part of the stove, or over hot water, for five 



26 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

minutes, stirring occasional Ij-. Take from the fire, add the fish, pars- 
ley and seasoning. Mix gently, that the fish may not become stringy. 
Fill greased scalloped shells or individual souffle dishes. Brush over 
the top with the beaten yolk of an egg and brown in a quick oven. 
This may be baked or browned in a single large turbot dish if desired. 

BOILED SALMON. 

The middle slice of salmon is the best. Sew up neatly in a mos- 
quito net bag and boil a quarter of an hour to the pound in hot salted 
water. When done unwrap with care and lay upon a hot dish, taking 
care not to break it. 

Have ready a large cupful of drawn butter, very rich, in which 
has been stirred a tablespoonful of minced parsley and the juice of a 
lemon. Pour half upon the salmon and serve the rest in a boat. Gar- 
nish with parsley and sliced eggs. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod — 
A fish, when fresh, to feast a god. 

BOILED FRESH CODFISH. 

Lay the fish in salt and water for an hour before cooking. Choose 
a "chunky" piece, as nearly square as you can get it. Sew up in white 
mosquito netting fitted to the shape of the fish. Put on in enough 
boiling water to cover it, adding four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
cook steadily ten minutes to the pound. Unwrap the fish and pour 
over it half of the sauce described below, putting the rest into a 
gravy-boat. 

EGG SAUCE FOR BOILED CODFISH. 

Make a white sauce by cooking together a tablespoonful, each, of 
butter and of flour until they bubble, pouring upon them a half pint 
of milk and stirring until thick and smooth. To this add one hard- 
boiled egg, chopped fine, one raw egg, beaten light, putting it in 
slowly, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the fish in the dish 
or serve in a sauce-tureen. 

BOILED RED SNAPPER. 

Clean, wash, wipe dry and sew up in coarse white mosquito net- 
ting. Put it into boiling water deep enough to cover the fish, and 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 27 



which has been salted and flavored with lemon juice. Let the water 
come to the boiling point, then reduce the heat so it will merely 
bubble. Simmer about half an hour. Lift carefully from the water, 
drain and unwrap ; put it into a hot dish. Garnish with parsley and 
serve with tomato sauce or with sauce Hollandaise. 

BOILED MACKEREL.— Salt. 

Prepare as for broiling. Put to cook in a generous quantity of 
boiling w'ater, allow to boil slowly twenty minutes. Remove to hot 
platter, scatter over a few bits of butter, pour over it a cupful of 
cream, add a dash of cayenne pepper, put in the oven for five minutes 
and serve. If preferred, use dressing prepared as for broiled mackerel. 
Serve whole boiled potatoes or baked ones with mackerel. 

BROILED SHAD ROES. 

Parboil the roes in salted w^ater as soon as they are taken from 
the fish. Cook ten minutes and leave in ice water until cold and 
firm. "Marinade" them in bath of lemon juice and salad oil for one 
hour. Wipe lightly and broil to a nice brown, turning several times. 
Pass with lemon sauce. 

FRIED SHAD ROES. 

Parboil as directed, let them get chilled in ice water, wipe dry, 
roll in beaten egg and salted cracker crumbs and fry in deep hot cot 
tolene or other fat heated gradually to the boiling point before the 
roes go in. 

BROILED SHAD. 

Split and wash the shad and afterward dry it in a cloth. Season 
it with salt and pepper. Have ready a bed of clear, bright coals. 
Grease your gridiron well, and as soon as it is hot lay the shad upon 
it, the flesh side down; cover with a dripping-pan and broil it for 
about a quarter of an hour, or more, according to the thickness. But- 
ter it well and send it to the table. Covering it while broiling gives 
it a more delicious flavor. 

BROILED BLUE FISH. 

Sew the fish in coarse netting, if you have no fish kettle. Boil 
very slowly in three pints salted boiling water, into which you have 



28 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

put a teacup of vinegar or tlic same quantity of wine, two or three 
cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a very small 
onion. Half an hour is usually long enough to boil the fish — it is 
done when the meat separates easily from the backbone. When done 
remove the netting, place on a hot platter, put bits of maitre d'hotel 
butter over the fish, set in the oven for five minutes, garnish with 
slices of lemon and serve. 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Split the fish down the back, take out the backbone, wash it in 
cold water, dry it with a clean dry cloth, sprinkle it lightly wath salt 
and lay it on a buttered gridiron, over a clear fire, with the flesh side 
downward, until it begins to brown; then turn the other side. Have 
ready a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of butter melted, a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of salt, some pepper. Dish up the 
fish hot from the gridiron on a hot dish, turn over the mixture and 
serve it while hot. 

BROILED MACKEREL.— Salt. 

Select a nice, fat mackerel. Remove head and black skin from 
the inside of the fish; wash carefully, place in cold water, skin side 
up, and allow to remain over night. When ready to cook, remove 
from the water, wipe dry, butter the bars of the gridiron, lay the fish 
on and broil over a clear fire. When you remove the fish from the 
gridiron, dip quickly into the boiling water, and send to the table, 
accompanied by the gravy-boat containing a dressing made as follows: 
Beat together very thoroughly four tablespoonfuls of butter 
(melted), three teaspoonfuls lemon juice (a few drops at a time), a 
tablespoon ful chopped parsley, and a slight sprinkling of white 
pepper. The sauce should be hot. 

MACKEREL A LA PARIS. 

Clean fish of even size till you have sufficient for the dish. Make 
some very savory force-meat, using plenty of chopped parsley and 
herbs. Season all with pepper and salt and fill the insides of the fish. 
Tie up with a string and lay in a baking dish. Season again with 
pepper and salt, and dot butter all over the fish, also a squeeze of 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 29 



freshly-cut lemon. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve with some good 
brown gravy. 

HALIBUT STEAK. , 

Cut the steaks three-quarters of an inch thick, wash and wipe dry, 
sprinkle with salt and white pepper, and allow to stand an hour be- 
fore cooking. Beat up two or three eggs, roll some crackers as fine 
as possible and sift. Dip the steaks into the beaten egg, then into the 
cracker dust, and fry in hot lard or beef drippings, using enough to 
float the fish. If preferred, dip the steak in milk and roll in flour be- 
fore frying. 

FLOUNDERS. 

Skin the fish and then cut straight down the back, and with the 
point of a sharp knife carefully push the meat from the bone half 
way out to the opposite edge; proceed in the same way with the other 
half; turn the fish over and remove the bone, cut ofi the fins, wash 
and wipe dry. Sprinkle the fish with salt, dip in milk, roll in flour, 
and fry in hot drippings; test the fat with a bit of bread before put- 
ting the fish into it — if the bread browns at once, put in the fish. When 
done and of a beautiful brown, which will be in about ten minutes if 
the fish is of medium size, remove to a hot platter, garnish with pars- 
ley and bits of lemon, and serve at once. 

CODFISH STEAK. 

Select a medium-sized fresh codfish, cut it in steaks crosswise of 
the fish, about an inch and a half thick; sprinkle a little salt over 
them, and let them stand two hours. 

Cut into dice a pound of salt fat pork, fry out all the fat from 
them and remove the crisp bits of pork; put the codfish steaks in a 
pan of corn meal, dredge them with it, and when the pork fat is 
smoking hot, fry the steaks in it to a dark brown color on both sides. 

Squeeze over them a little lemon juice, add a dash of freshly 
ground pepper, and serve with hot, old-fashioned, well-buttered 
Johnny cake. 

FRIED EELS. 

After cleaning the eels well, cut them in pieces two inches long; 
wash them and wipe them dry; roll them in wheat flour or rolled 



30 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

cracker, and fry as directed for other fish, in hot lard or beef drip- 
ping, salted. They should be browned all over and thoroughly done. 
Eels are sometimes dipped in batter and then fried, or into egg 
and bread crumbs. Serve with crisped parsley. 

STEWED EELS. 

Skin and clean; cut into short lengths, lay in cold water for half 
an hour; then put over the fire in cold water, just enough to cover 
them, and cook slowly for half an hour, or more, according to their 
size. A large eel may require an hour to make it tender. Turn od 
the water, cover the eels with a good white sauce seasoned with 
paprika, onion juice, salt and minced parsley; simmer five minutes 
and serve. 

FISH CUTLETS. 

Two cupfuls of cooked fish meat, chopped fine, one cupful of milk 
or cream, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, dash of paprika, 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Add the yolks of 
the eggs beaten light, take from the fire and mix gently with the fish. 
Season with the salt, pepper and parsley. Onion and celery extract 
may be used if liked. Cool, form into cutlets, cover with eggs and 
bread crumbs and fry in smoking-hot fat. 

AN AFRICAN DAINTY. 

In the line of vegetables N'gutti-N'sengo is a dish which is eaten 
all over Africa and which consists of egg plant, small fish — somewhat 
like sardines and known as n'sengo — and the roots of the manioca 
plant. To this is added small tomatoes, and all is placed in a vessel 
with water, seasoned with sal't and pepper and boiled. For palm 
chops, palm nuts are boiled in water until the pulpy substances loosen 
from the pit. Then the shell, which contains a very delicious oil, is 
placed in a wooden mortar and crushed and thrown into the vessel 
where the fish, etc., are cooking. Red pepper and salt are used as 
seasoning, and the mixture is boiled together. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 31 



PAN FISH. 

Place them in a thick bottom frying-pan with heads all one way. 
Fill the spaces with smaller fish. When they are fried quite brown 
and ready to turn, put a dinner plate over them, drain off the fat; 
then invert the pan, and they will be left unbroken on the plate. 

Put the lard back into the pan, and when hot slip back the fish. 
When the other side is brown, drain, turn on a plate as before, and 
slip them on a warm platter, to be sent to the table. Leaving the 
heads on and the fish a crispy brown, in perfect shape, improves the 
appearance if not the flavor. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

BROOK TROUT. 

1. If small, fry them with salt pork; if large, boil and serve with 
drawn butter. 

2. Wash, drain and split, roll in flour, season with salt; have 
some thin slices of salt pork in a pan, and when very hot put in the 
fish and fry a nice brown. 

HADDOCK STEWED WITH CLARET. 

Cut the fish in two, season with pepper, salt, a little mace and 
cloves, and lay it in a pan. Take four or five onions, shred them 
fine, some sprigs of parsley and thyme. Cover the fish with claret 
and water, one quart of claret to the pint of water, half a pound of 
butter and a little flour. When half done turn it. Let it cook on a 
slow fire. You can experiment with cider, in lieu of the New Jersey 



CROQUETTES OF FISH. 

Take cold fish of any kind and separate it from the bones and 
mince fine; add a little seasoning, an egg, a very little milk, and a 
teaspoonful of flour; brush with egg; roll in bread crumbs, and fry 
brown in hot lard. 

COLD SALMON MOUSSE. 

Cook the beaten yolks of two eggs, mixed with half a teaspoonful 
of salt, a dash of paprika and a grating of onion, in one-third a cup 



32 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

of cream, diluted with two-thirds a cup of fish stock or boiling water, 
until the mixture coats the spoon; add one-fourth a package of gela- 
tine softened in one-fourth a cup of cold water, then beat in a half a 
cup of cooked salmon pounded smooth in a chopping tray. Beat while 
cooling over ice water, then ford in one cup of cream beaten until 
increased in bulk threefold and as firm as possible. Turn into a 
chilled mold. Serve turned from themol d and with lettuce, oil 
and vinegar. 

FRIED SMELTS WITH LEMON SAUCE. 

Clean, wash and dry the smelts. Roll in salted and peppered 
flour, and leave in a cold place for an hour to get firm. Fry in deep 
cottolene or other fat to a light brown, laying each in a hot colander 
as you take it from the pan, to drain ofiE the grease. Serve in a hot 
dish. A pretty way of serving them is to fringe several thicknesses 
of white tissue paper at both ends, and lay in the bottom of the dish, 
the fringe showing beyond the heap of fish. Serve with — 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Heat (not melt) three tablespoonfuls of butter until you can beat 
it to a cream. Whip into it the strained juice of one large or two 
small lemons, with a heaping tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley. 
It should be like a light-green cream when done. Fill with this mix- 
ture the halves of lemons, from which all the pulp and inner skin have 
been scraped, and garnish the dish of smelts with them, serving one 
of the "cups" with each portion of fish. 

SEA CAPTAIN'S CHOWDER. 

Fry five or six slices of fat pork crisp in the bottom of the pot 
you are to make your chowder in ; take them out and chop them into 
small pieces, put them back into the bottom of the pot with their own 
gravy. (This is much better than having the slices whole.) 

Cut four pounds of fresh cod or sea bass into pieces two inches 
square, and lay enough of these on the pork to cover it. 

Follow with a layer of chopped onions, a little parsley; Summer 
savory and pepper, either black or cayenne. Then a layer of split 
butter, or whole cream crackers, which have been soaked in warm 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 33 

water until moistened through, but not ready to break. Above this 
put a layer of pork, and repeat the order given above — onions, sea- 
soning (not too much), crackers and pork, until your materials are 
exhausted. Let the topmost layer be buttered crackers well soaked. 

Pour in enough cold water to barely cover all. Cover the pot, 
stew gently for an hour, watching that the water does not sink too 
low. Should it leave the upper layer exposed, replenish cautiously 
from the boiling tea-kettle. When the chowder is thoroughly done, 
take out with a perforated skimmer and put into a tureen. 

Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of flour and about the 
same quantity of butter; boil up and pour over the chowder. Serve 
sliced lemon, pickles and stewed tomatoes with it, that the guests may 
add if they like. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE.— Cottage Style. 
(To serve six.) 

One-half a can of cream, three-quarters of a cup of cold water, three 
level tablespoonfuls of butter, three level tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, salt if needed, one finnan haddie, 
six potatoes, one-fourth of a cup of cream, one-fourth of a cup of 
water, two hard-cooked eggs (at discretion). 

Select a thick-fleshed fish. Cover with cold water and let stand 
on the back of the range from half to a whole hour ; at the last allow 
the water to come to the simmering point. Drain the fish and separ- 
ate into flakes, discarding skin and bones. For each generous cup of 
fish, make a cup of cream sauce. Melt the butter, add the flour and, 
when bubbling, stir in the cream diluted with water; when the sauce 
boils, add the prepared fish and turn the whole into a baking dish. 
Cover with the potatoes cooked, mashed, enriched with the cream and 
seasoned. Put the last of the potato in place, brown in the oven and 
decorate with the hard-cooked eggs cut in slices. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Two tablespoonfuls of cream, one egg, one cupful of salt fish, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, two cupfuls of potatoes, pepper to 
taste. 

Wash and pick over the fish, shredding it into small pieces. Peel 
the potatoes and cut in quarters. Put the fish and potatoes together 



34 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and cook twenty-five min- 
utes, or until the potatoes are tender. Watch them that they may 
not cook until soggy. Drain thoroughly, mash and beat with a fork 
until light. Add the butter, mix, and cool slightly. Add the eggs, 
beaten without separating, and the cream, unless the mixture be too 
soft, adding gradually, as the entire quantity given may not be re- 
quired. Make into balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry 
in smoking hot fat. If handled and fried carefully, these may be 
cooked if desired without the egg and bread crumb covering. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 35 



OYSTERS. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Choose large oysters for frying. Drain them on a cloth. First 
roll them in cracker dust, then dip in beaten egg, roll again in cracker 
dust and fry to a nice brown in hot butter, seasoned with pepper and 
salt. Three eggs will be required for a quart of oysters, butter may 
be added to the pan as needed, but none should be left when through 
frying. Send to the table hot, garnished with water-cress, curled- 
cress or parsley. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Select large oysters, drain, place on a plate in a steamer, over a 
kettle of boiling water. About twenty minutes will be required to 
cook them. Season with pepper and salt. Serve hot, on soft buttered 
toast. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 

Wash clean, and wipe dry, any number of shell oysters; remove 
half the shell, leaving the oyster in the other half, sprinkle with white 
pepper and salt, arrange on sheet-iron pan and bake in a hot oven. 
Send to the table as soon as done (in the shell), accompanied by dress- 
ing made as follows : Chop fine a small bunch of parsley, and beat in 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; add, if you like, a squeeze of 
lemon juice. 

Oysters may be roasted on the coals or on the top of a hot stove; 
as soon as the shells open they are done ; serve immediately. 

Clams may be roasted in the same way, but are apt to be a little 
tough. Serve baked sweet potatoes with roast clams and oysters. 

OYSTER TOAST. 

Select fifteen plump oysters; mince and season with minced pars- 
ley, and a pinch of nutmeg ; beat the yolks of four eggs and mix with 
half a pint of milk or cream. Put the whole into a saucepan, and 



THE USE OF 



WAW WAW SAUCE 



BECOMES A PLEASING HABIT 

A piquant, snappy sauce 
restores the jaded appetite 



FOR USE ON MEATS, 
FISH, SALADS, ETC. 



ADDS ZEST TO SOUP AND BROTHS 



The Brand tells the Story: Purity, Quality, Economy 



AMCEHAT 



TOMATO CATSUP 
CHILI SAUCE .-. .'. 
SALAD DRESSING 



Put Your Faith in AMCEHA T Brands 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 37 

set it over the fire to simmer until thick; stir constantly and remove 
from the fire just before it boils, to prevent curdling. Have ready 
some pieces of hot toast, nicely buttered ; pour over and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the desired number of oysters on a napkin for half an hour. 
Rub the wires of your broiler with a piece of suet, or a little melted 
butter, arrange the oysters on a broiler and broil over a clear, bright 
fire, turning the broiler often, to prevent the juices from escaping. 
Have ready some nicely buttered toast, heap the oysters on it, sprinkle 
lightly with pepper and salt and send to the table accompanied by a 
small dish of melted butter. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Choose large fresh oysters, just from the shell if possible. Split 
and toast Boston crackers, or pieces of stale bread, cut round to fit 
the bottom of "p^tty-pans." Put the liquor from the oysters in a stew- 
pan on the stove, boil and skim, season with pepper and salt, and 
butter. Put the crackers or toasted bread into the "patty-pans," 
moisten with the hot liquor, fill the pans with oysters, putting on each 
oyster as it is placed in the pan a bit of butter, a little salt and pepper, 
and if you choose a drop of lemon juice. Bake fifteen minutes in a 
very hot oven ; set the "patty-pans" on a platter, and send to the table 
at once. 

OYSTERS BAKED. 

Cut some very thin slices of fat pork into pieces about the size of 
your oysters; lay them on the bottom of a sheet-iron dripping-pan; 
on each piece of the pork lay an oyster, previously drained ; dust with 
white pepper, cover with a bit of the thin pork, and bake in a hot 
oven until the pork is crisp and of a light brown color; the oysters 
will then be sufficiently well done. Remove to a hot dish and serve 
at once. Pass sliced lemons with oysters cooked in this way. The 
pork is not usually served with the oysters. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Bread two dozen oysters, cut each one into three or four pieces 
and scald them in their own liquor. Put two ounces of butter in a 



^8 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



saucepan, dredge in sufficient flour to take up the butter, strain the 
oyster-liquor and put into the saucepan with the butter and flour ; add 
a blade of pounded mace, a little lemon juice, cayenne and salt to 
taste ; let boil up, put in the oysters and three tablespoonfuls of cream ; 
allow to heat but do not boil. Line patty-pans with puff-paste, and 
put into each a small piece of bread ; cover with paste, brush over with 
egg, and bake a light brown. When done, remove the lids of the 
patty cases, take out the bread, fill with the mixture, replace the 
covers, set in the oven for a moment and serve. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Line a deep pie-plate with puff-paste, fill the interior with bread 
crusts (to be removed later) and fit on a top crust, buttered about 
the edge on the under side that it may be easily taken off. Stew a 
quart of oysters for five minutes ; stir in very slowly a cupful of thick 
white sauce and the beaten yolks of two eggs. When the paste is 
done take off the top, remove the bread crusts, fill the centre with the 
creamed oysters, replace the top crust and set the pie in the oven for 
five minutes before sending to the table. 

CLAM STEW. 

Open fifty clams, saving the liquor, cut each clam into four or 
five pieces. Put the liquor on the stove in a saucepan, let come to a 
boil, and skim; now rub a tablespoonful of flour smooth in three 
ounces of butter, stir gradually into the clam liquor, to prevent 
lumps; boil two minutes, add half a pint of hot milk or cream, and 
half a teacupful of crushed crackers ; serve at once. 

SCALLOPED CLAMS. 

Select one dozen large clams in the shell and two dozen soft ones. 
Use care not to injure the shells which are to be used in cooking. 
Clean the shells well and put two soft clams into each one. Add to 
each a touch of white pepper and one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
minced celery. Cut into small dice a few slices of bacon and add four 
of these to each shell ; sprinkle bread crumbs over the top, put a piece 
of butter on top of each and bake in the oven till brown. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 39 



ROAST CLAMS. 

Wash the clams and lay them unopened in a bake-pan, and set 
on the top of the very hot range. Cook until the shells open wide, 
then remove the upper shell and transfer the lower — with the clam 
and juice still in it — to a hot platter. Squeeze upon each clam a few 
drops of lemon juice and serve in the shells. Pass tomato catsup or 
chilli sauce with them. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Chop a quart of clams, peel six potatoes and slice thin; mince a 
quarter of a pound of fat salt pork fine ; tie up in a cheese-cloth bag 
six whole allspice and the same number of whole cloves. Put the 
minced pork into the pot and fry it crisp; remove the pork and fry 
a small sliced onion in the pot to a light brown- Now put in the 
potatoes and a can of tomatoes, the spice bag, a quart of cold water 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cook for four hours. At the end of 
three and a half hours add the clams and four pilot biscuits that have 
been soaked in milk. Serve very hot. 

DEVILED CLAMS. 

Slice an onion and fry it to a light brown in a large spoonful of 
butter. Strain out the onion and put the hot butter back upon the 
fire. Chop two large (peeled) tomatoes fine, season with salt, half 
a teaspoonful of sugar, a good dash of paprika and the same of nut- 
meg. Stir into the hissing butter; stir for three minutes, and add a 
teaspoonful of butter rolled in half as much flour. Have ready the 
clams, drained and chopped fine, and mix them with the butter and 
tomatoes. Fill buttered scallop-shells, or clam-shells, or a buttered 
pudding-dish with the mixture; sift fine-crushed cracker over all, 
dropping tiny dabs of butter on top, and cook until delicately 
browned. 

FRIED CLAMS. 

Drain the clams and dry them by laying them on a soft napkin. 
Season with a dust of paprika. Beat two eggs light in a soup-plate 
and have ready in another deep plate an abundance of cracker crumbs. 
Dip each clam in the egg, and then in the crumbs, until thoroughly 
coated. Lay side by side on a large platter and set in a cold place for 



4.C The New Lucile Cook Book. 

an hour. Fry in deep, boiling cottolene or other fat to a golden 
brown, drain in a colander, then transfer to a hot platter. Garnish 
with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

STEWED TERRAPIN. 

(A Maryland recipe.) 

Drop the "diamond-backs" into boiling water and cook until the 
heads and feet "skin off." This should be in less than an hour. Let 
them get perfectly cold. Strip off the shells and extract the heart 
and entrails carefully, lest an incautious touch rupture the gall-bag 
and ruin everything. Cut off the head, tail and feet. Cut the meat 
up small with a sharp knife, put into a saucepan, cover with hot water 
and simmer fifteen minutes. Rub the yolks of half a dozen hard- 
boiled eggs to a powder and work in three tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Heat a cupful of cream in another vessel (with a pinch of soda) and 
work by degrees into the egg and butter, season with salt and cayenne 
and mix gradually with the hot terrapin. Cook one minute, add a 
glass of sherry, and pour out. 

TERRAPIN IN SHELLS. 

Boil, and remove the worthless portions from the meat, as directed 
for stewing terrapin. The shell should be removed carefully; scrape 
clean, scald and wipe them dry, so that they will be ready to use. 
Then put all of the meat cut fine into a saucepan with butter, pepper, 
salt, cayenne, a few bread crumbs, wet with a little Madeira or 
sherry, and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed smooth; mix 
together and only just boil up, then fill the shells, set into the oven to 
brown over. Serve hot. 

FRIED FROGS. 

Wash and put the legs into a spider, with water enough to cover 
them, add a little salt. Allow the water to boil away (being careful 
not to scorch the meat), then add butter and pepper, fry to a delicate 
brown. Be sure that they are quite tender when done. Serve hot, 
garnished with slices of lemon or cress. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 41 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

Half a pound of soft grated cheese; one gill of ale; two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of butter; one teaspoonful of lemon juice and the sanie 
of Worcestershire sauce and half a spoonful of celery salt. A pinch 
of cayenne and one of mustard. 

Put a broad saucepan over the fire and melt the butter. When 
it hisses stir in the cheese, then, still stirring, the dry seasoning. Have 
ready the eggs beaten separately and very light, before you stir them 
together in a bowl with a few swift strokes. Add three spoonfuls of 
the hot mixture to these, rapidly, then pour the eggs (now warmed 
by the hot cheese) into the saucepan, never letting the spoon rest. In 
one minute more add the sauce and lemon juice and put upon rounds 
of hot, buttered toast. 

SUBSTANTIAL "DREAMS." 

Dreams are a more substantial dish than their name indicates. 
Spread butter on slices of bread from which the crust has been cut, 
and put on a layer of American or Swiss cheese. Cover with another 
layer of bread, cut in two and saute in butter in the frying-pan until 
both sides are a golden brown. The American cheese will melt. The 
Swiss cheese just soften deliciously and some persons always use it for 
the purpose. Dreams are a favorite chafing-dish product. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER. 

Select three medium-sized, good, live lobsters, split them in halves, 
and take out the stony pouch and intestines ; glaze them slightly with 
sweet oil, and season them with half a pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper, and then broil them for seven minutes on each side. Plact 
them on a dish, moisten with a gill of good maitre d 'hotel, then serve. 

LOBSTER A L'AMERICAINE. 

Split two fine, good-sized, freshly boiled lobsters, remove all the 
meat carefully, then cut it up into pieces one inch in length. Have a 
pan on the hot range with half a gill of good olive oil, and when the 
oil is very hot add the pieces of lobster. Chop very fine one medium- 
sized, peeled onion, one fine, sound green pepper, and half a clove of 



42 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

peeled, very sound garlic; add all to the lobster, and let cook for five 
minutes, gently mixing meanwhile. Season with a pinch of salt and 
half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also half a wineglassful of 
good white wine. Reduce for two minutes, then add one gill of 
tomato sauce and one medium-sized, sound, red, peeled tomato, cut 
into small, dice-shaped pieces. Cook for ten minutes longer, gently 
shuffling meanwhile. Pour the whole into a very hot, deep dish, or in 
a hot tureen, and serve. 

LOBSTER SCALLOPED IN SHELLS. 

Two cupfuls of lobster meat, cut into small dice. One cupful of 
white stock, and the same of unskimmed milk. Two tablespoonfuls 
of butter made into a white roux with one tablespoonful of flour. 
Salt and paprika to taste. Minced parsley and juice of half a lemon. 
Beaten yolks of two eggs. Halves of two lobster shells, cleaned. 
Pinch of soda in milk. 

Stir the hot stock and the scalded milk into the roux, season, boil 
once; remove from the fire, add the eggs and lobster dice and fill the 
shells. Cover with fine crumbs, rounded, dot with butter, sprinkle 
with cayenne and bake to a delicate brown. 

CREUSTADE OF LOBSTER. 

Cut off the top from a loaf of stale bread, scoop out all of the 
interior, leaving a half wall, spread a coating of butter on the inside 
and bake until crisp; place a layer of cooked lobster meat over the 
bottom, then a layer of boiled thinly-sliced tomatoes, adding a white 
sauce, highly seasoned, between each layer; put fine bread crumbs on 
top, dot with butter and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven ; garnish 
with halved stufifed olives, lobster, clams and parsley. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Put three tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan on the stove; 
when melted, stir into it very gradually three tablespoonfuls of flour; 
when perfectly smooth, add a pint and a half of good stock, stirring 
all the time. Season to taste with mace, salt, white pepper and cay- 
enne. Cut three pounds of lobster meat into small pieces, add it to 
the prepared gravy; simmer five minutes and serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 43 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Pick all the meat from the shells of two good-sized freshly-boiled 
lobsters and cut into one-inch pieces, which place in a saucepan 
over a hot range, together with two tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
season with a pinch of salt and one of cayenne. Cook five minutes, 
pour in a glass of sherry; simmer five minutes, add the beaten yolks 
of three eggs and a cupful of cream, stirring all the time. When 
it thickens, pour out and serve. 

Do not omit to put a pinch of soda in the cream. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Mince the flesh of lobsters fine; season with salt, pepper and 
spice ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan ; mix with it one table- 
spoonful of flour; add lobster, finely chopped parsley; mix with it 
some good stock; remove from the fire, and stir into it the yolks 
of two eggs; spread out the mixture, and when cold, cut into cutlets; 
dip carefully into beaten eggs, then into fine baked bread crumbs; 
let them stand an hour, and repeat and fry a rich brown. Serve with 
fried parsley. 

LOBSTER RISSOLES. 

Boil the lobster, take out the meat, mince it fine, pound the coral 
smooth, and grate for one lobster the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs ; 
season with cayenne and a little salt; make a batter of milk, flour, 
and well-beaten egg — two tablespoonfuls of milk and one of flour 
to each egg; beat the batter well; mix the lobster with it gradually 
until stifF enough to roll into balls, the size of a walnut ; fry in fresh 
butter or best salad oil, and serve. 

LOBSTER PATITES. 

Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan on the stove; when 
melted stir into it sufficient flour to thicken it, add a small teacupful 
of stock or the same quantity of hot water, a little lemon juice, salt 
and cayenne to taste; let simmer a moment and then add the meat 
of a lobster finely minced. When thoroughly heated fill patty-cases, 
set in the oven a moment, and serve. Be careful not to put too 
much flour in your patties, the gravy should just mask a spoon 
slightly. 



44 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



DEVILLED LOBSTER. 

One pint lobster meat, four tablespoons butter, one teaspoon 
curry powder, one teaspoon prepared mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. Put into a hot pan three tablespoons but- 
ter, mix a paste of one tablespoon curry powder, Worcestershire 
sauce, mustard and a little salt. Put this in the butter, and when 
it bubbles add the lobster. Cook two minutes. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Wash thoroughly (it is better to use a brush), and let dry, 
sprinkle with cayenne and salt, roll in beaten egg, then in fine 
crumbs, again in egg, and once more in crumbs and fry in deep, hot 
fat. 

Garnish with water-cress, and pass sliced lemon with them. 

BROILED SOFT-SHELLED CRABS. 

Have six, good-sized, fresh, soft-shelled crabs, cleanse and wash 
them well, then drain, then oil them slightly, and season with a pinch 
of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Put them on the broiler, and broil 
for five minutes on each side. Have six pieces of toast ready, lay 
a crab on top of each, slightly glaze them with a little maitre 
d'hotel butter, and serve. This makes a delicious dish, but must 
be served very hot. 

CRABS IN THE SHELL. 

Boil the crabs until done, which will be when they assume a 
bright red color. Remove the meat from the shells and cut in small 
pieces; clean the shells. To six ounces of the meat, mix one ounce 
of bread crumbs, two hard-boiled eggs, chopped, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Stir all together, 
add enough cream or cream sauce to make very moist. Put the mix- 
ture into the shells, smooth, and dust with sifted cracker dust, and 
hake in a quick oven until a light golden brown. 

HOT CRAB. 

Pick the crab; cut the solid part into small pieces, and mix the 
inside with a little rich gravy or cream, seasoning, and bread crumbs; 
put all into the shell of the crab, and put it into the oven. Bake 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 45 

for five minutes on each side. Have six pieces of toast ready, lay a 
crab on top of each, slightly glaze them with a little maitre d'hotel 
butter, and serve. This makes a delicious dish, but must be served 
very hot. 

PICKLED CRAB MEAT. 

Scald some good cider vinegar, adding a bag containing whole 
cloves, celery seed, a clove of garlic, and a little mustard seed; co- 
riander seed may be added if desired; let the bag remain in the 
vinegar while it scalds, and pour while hot over crab meat that has 
been picked from the shells and cut into pieces of as uniform size 
a.-, possible; turn into a jar and keep sealed until used. 

BUTTERED SHRIMPS. 

Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; add a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and, when bubbling hot, a tablespoonful of to- 
mato sauce, paprika and salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of onion 
juice. Boil one minute and add a can of shrimps, washed and 
drained. Stir the mixture four minutes over a brisk fire and serve. 

Pass thin slices of buttered brown bread with them. 



46 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



HEATS. 

" There's no want of meats, sir; 
Portly and curious viands are prepared 
To please all kinds of appetites. " 

It is always wisdom from every point of view to buy only the best 
meat, and usually the best cuts will be found the most economical, 
a? requiring less w^aste. 

To prepare meat for the oven, wash in a pan of cold water, and 
wipe dry with a clean towel, or wipe the meat first with a wet 
towel and then a dry one. The tenderloin and sirloin are the most 
desirable roasts, and there are degrees of excellence even in these. 
The rib roast is the most economical for a small family, and the 
sixth, seventh and eighth ribs being considered the best; have your 
butcher remove the bones, which should be sent home with the meat, 
as they furnish a valuable contribution to the soup-kettle. Have the 
oven hot when the meat is put into it, allow^ twelve minutes to the 
pound if the roast is a small one, and fifteen if a large one; put a 
teacupful of hot water into the baking-pan and baste often until 
the meat is nearly done, but do not salt or pepper it, as the salt will 
cause the juices to flow, which should be retained in the meat, and 
the flavor of pepper is much injured by scorching; put these condi- 
ments into the gravy and use white pepper instead of black, its 
flavor is much more agreeable; turn the meat when one side is 
brown, that the other may be brown. Veal and lamb require very 
tliorough cooking, therefore your oven will not need to be quite as 
hot as for beef or pork; baste often as for beef until nearly done, 
then allow to brown. Boil all fresh meats and all kinds of fish very 
slowly; corned meats, such as ham and beef, should not be allowed 
to more than simmer, and if they are to be served cold, they should 
be allowed to cook in the liquor in which they were boiled. The 
sauces for boiled meats should be a little more piquant than those to 
be served with baked or roasted meats. Broiling is easily accom- 
plished, if you have plenty of bright live coals, have the gridiron 
well heated and rub with a piece of suet before putting on the meat ; 
turn often if it is steak or chops. 

Vinegar and lemon juice are invaluable aids in the business of 
"tendering" tough meats. Beefsteak, covered for some hours with 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 47 

vinegar or lemon juice, and olive oil, is made eatable by the action 
of the acid upon the fibers which are further "supplied" by the oil. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Wipe the meat first with a wet towel (never wash a roast) and 
then with a dry one; put it into the dripping-pan, add a cup of hot 
water, and put immediately into a hot oven, and roast twelve minutes 
for every pound, if the roast is a small one; allow ten minutes to the 
pound for a large roast. Turn the meat that it may be brown on 
all sides. When done remove to a hot platter. 

Never serve "made gravy" with roast beef. Pour the liquid 
from the pan into a bowl, and when the fat is solid, remove it and 
clarify for dripping. The residuum will add richness to your soup- 
stock, or make a savory base for stew or hash. 

Serve horseradish sauce and mustard with your rare roast, and 
put a little of the ruddy juice which exudes as the meat is carved, 
upon each slice when served. 

ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Fifteen minutes before taking up the roast just described, skim 
six tablespoonfuls of fat from the gravy, put into a smaller drip- 
ping-pan, or pudding-dish, and set in the oven. Have ready this 
batter : 

Sift an even teaspoonful of salt and one of baking-powder 
twice with a pint of flour. Beat two eggs light, add to them two 
cupfuls of milk, turn in the sifted flour and mix quickly. Set the 
reserved fat upon the upper grating of the oven; when it begins 
to bubble, turn in the batter, and cook quickly to a fine, golden- 
brown. Cut into squares and garnish the meat with them when 
you dish it. 

This is a better way than cooking the pudding in the roaster 
under the meat, as used to be the custom with English cooks. 

ROLLED BOILED BEEF. 

Cut an oblong piece of beef from the flank. It should be two 
inches thick, twelve inches long and six wide. Lay it on a dish and 
spread upon it this force-meat: 



HYGEIA DISTILLED WATER 



The recognized Standard of Purity for more than twenty years 



THE "SAFE" WATER FOR HOME USE 



Jlpgeia Carbonic 
^elt^er, Iffitf^Vf Hitftia 
l^icte tuitf) Hitijia 

Upgeia (ginser aie 
anb ^arsiapariUa 




As good as, if not better than any imported 

All our products are made from Hygeia Distilled 
Water as a basis. Recommended by Physicians 
and used in all first-class Hotels and Clubs 
throughout the country. 



HYGEIA DISTILLED WATER CO 

349-359 WEST 12th STREET, N. Y. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 49 



A cupful of cracker crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of finely- 
chopped salt pork, half a teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful, each, 
of tVme, marjoram, and sage, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a few 
drops of onion juice, or one teaspoonful of chopped onion, and one 
egg. Moisten with a good stock until soft enough to spread over the 
meat. 

Roll as you would a valise pudding, tie about with pack-thread 
and sew up in mosquito netting or cheese-cloth. Put on in plenty of 
boiling water and cook slowly for four hours. Let it lie in the water 
until the latter is a little more than lukewarm, and put under a 
heavy weight until next day. Remove the cloth, cut the strings and 
serve cold with horseradish sauce. 

Corned beef is very good prepared in this way. Add vinegar to 
the water in which it is boiled and omit the pork. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Cut two pounds of lean beef from the round into strips. Cover 
the bottom of a pudding-dish with thin strips of bacon, then put in 
half the meat and strew over this carrots, turnips and onions, sliced 
very thin. There should be four of these, part of them going over 
the first layer of beef, the remainder over the second layer of beef. 
With them go two bay-leaves broken into bits. Cover all with 
stock, make a paste of flour and water, rolling it out as for pie-crust, 
cover the top of the bake-dish with this, pinching it down about the 
edges so that no steam may escape. Bake for two hours in a steady 
oven, remove the paste cover, and send the dish at once to the table. 

HAMBURG STEAKS. 

One pound of steak from the round, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
or three drops of onion extract, one-half tablespoonful of pepper, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley. A very little thyme or sweet mar- 
joram may be added if desired. 

Chop the meat fine, mix well with the seasonings. Form into 
small steaks with the hand. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the 
frying-pan. When heated put in the steaks; let them cook slowly 
until done half-way through; turn over and cook the other side. 
Serve with a brown or mushroom sauce. 



so The New Lucile Cook Book. 



BEEF BRESLAU. 

Mix together one pint of chopped cooked beef, a half cupful of 
stock, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a half cupful of stale 
bread crumbs, one cupful of milk, three beaten egg yolks, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Press the mixture 
into greased cups, stand in a pan partly filled with boiling water and 
bake half an hour in a hot oven. Serve with tomato sauce. 

A NEW ENGLAND POT-ROAST. 

Lay a round of beef in a broad, deep pot. Pour in a cupful of 
boiling water, add two slices of onion, cover closely and cook gently 
ten minutes to the pound. Transfer to a dripping-pan, rub with but- 
ter, dredge with flour, and brown in a quick oven. Strain and cool 
the gravy left in the pot, take off the fat, put the gravy into a sauce- 
pan, season with pepper, salt and a little kitchen bouquet, and thicken 
with a heaping tablespoonful of brown roux. Boil up once and serve 
in a gravy-boat, or pour around the base of the beef. 

SAVORY RAGOUT OF BEEF. 

Cut a round beefsteak into inch squares. Fry minced salt pork 
in a pan until you have enough fat to fry the meat, then remove the 
bits of pork and lay in the meat, each piece of which must first be 
rolled in flour. When the meat is brown at the edges, add to the fat 
two tablespoonfuls of flour that has been lightly browned, stir in a 
pint of weak stock, or, if you have not that, of boiling water; stir to 
a brown sauce, and return the meat to it, throwing in, at the same 
time, a minced onion. Leave the meat at the side of the range where 
it will cook very slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Now season 
to taste with salt, add a bay leaf and a little kitchen bouquet. A 
little Worcestershire sauce is thought by some to be an improvement. 
Cover again and cook, still slowly, for over an hour, or until the 
meat is very tender. Stir in two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and turn 
out upon a heated platter. 

BEEF HOT POT. 

Two pounds of beef ribs; one tablespoonful of dripping; two 
chopped onions and six tiny green peppers, four slices of toast, a little 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 51 



black pepper, chives, vinegar, thyme, raisins, olives, tomatoes to taste, 
all minced. 

Heat the dripping in a saucepan, put into it the ingredients (leave 
the peppers whole, and mince the chives), cover closely and stew 
until boiled to rags. Thicken with butter rolled in browned flour. 
Serve on toast. 

BEEF'S HEART. 

This very cheap dish is remarkably nice if properly cooked and 
is not so much despised abroad as in our own country. Select a fine, 
large heart, wash clean, cut off the lobes and gristle and soak five or 
six hours in vinegar and water. Make a force-meat of chopped pork, 
bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, or whatever seasoning you prefer, fill 
the heart with the force-meat, sew a piece of netting around it, and 
simmer very slowly, large end up, three hours, or until tender; then 
remove from the kettle, take off the cloth, place in a dripping-pan, 
and roast in a hot oven, until a nice brown. A weak stock is very 
nice to boil the heart in, but in the absence of stock use water, putting 
cnovigh in the kettle to barely cover the heart. Use the broth in 
which the heart was cooked for gravy, thicken with browned flour. 
Serve horseradish sauce with beef's heart. A nice way of warming 
this dish is to slice the heart very thin ; while you are doing this, let 
the gravy, made by thickening the liquor in which the heart was 
boiled, be put in a saucepan on the stove, add half a glass of sherrj"^ 
or a tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, let simmer a few min- 
utes, draw to the back of the range, add the sliced heart, let stand 
long enough to get very hot and serve. Veal force-meat may be used 
in the place of the pork if preferred. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Soak for an hour in cold water. Put over the fire in plenty of 
cold water. Put into the pot with it a peeled carrot and a small 
onion, and for a gallon of water a tablespoonful of vinegar. Cook 
slowly, allowing twenty-five minutes to the pound if very salt, or if 
the meat has lain in the brine for some weeks. Let it lie in the liquor 
for half an hour after it is done. Lift it then, trim away ragged 
edges, lay on a hot dish and wash all over with butter in which has 
been beaten the juice of half a lemon. 



52 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



Strain a cupful of the liquor ; stir into it a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in one of flour, boil two minutes and add a great spoonful of 
minced pickles, or of capers. Some like to use pickled onions for this 
purpose. 

Send around horseradish and mustard with it. 

When it leaves the table put a plate with a heavy weight upon it, 
and leave thus all night. 

BOILED BEEF'S TONGUE. 

Wash well and cook in salted, boiling water until a steel skewer 
goes easily into the thickest part. Leave in the water for fifteen min- 
utes, trim, and lay on a hot dish. Pour sauce tartare over it and send 
more around with it. 

Broil lightly your beefsteak — to fry it 
Argues contempt of Christian diet. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Have choice steaks, porterhouse or tenderloin, cut three-fourths 
of an inch thick, rub the bars of the broiler with a piece of beef suet, 
lay the meat on and broil over a clear, bright fire, from twelve to 
fifteen minutes, turn as soon as it browns, and often enough to pre- 
vent the juices escaping. When done, remove to a hot platter, sprinkle 
lightly with salt and white pepper, put some generous bits of butter 
on it and set in the oven until the butter is melted. Serve at once. 
Maitre d'hotel butter is an excellent dressing for beefsteak; put two 
tablespoonfuls on two pounds of beefsteak when it comes from the 
broiler and set in the oven until the dressing is melted. Powdered 
mushrooms are also a nice dressing for steak; sprinkle over as soon 
as the meat is put on the platter, add the butter, pepper and salt, and 
set in the oven for a moment. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK WITH ONIONS. 

Peel and wash four medium-sized onions; slice and put in a spider 
with water enough to cover, and boil until tender ; pour off the water, 
add a little butter and fry until a nice brown, then draw the spider 
to the side of the stove to keep hot. Broil the large and tender steak, 
remove the bone and scatter over it bits of butter, salt and pepper, 
and cover with the onions. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 53 

PORTERHOUSE STEAK WITH OYSTERS. 

Broil a fine tender steak on both sides and transfer it to a hot 
dish. Pepper and salt well, then rub into the steak a mixture of but- 
ter rubbed to a cream with the juice of half a lemon. 

Put one pint of oysters into a saucepan without any of the liquor. 
Stir until the edges ruffle, add one tablespoonful of butter creamed 
with an equal amount of flour and cooked to a roux. Pour over the 
hot steak and serve at once. 

BEEF STEAK AND FRIED POTATOES. 

Put four ounces of butter into a frying or saute pan, set over the 
fire and let it get very hot; peel eight good-sized potatoes and cut 
them into long, thin slices ; put them into the hot butter and fry them 
till of a nice brown color. Now broil the steaks over a clear, bright 
fire, turning them frequently, that every part may be equally done; 
as they should not be thick, five minutes will broil them. Put some 
bits of maitre d'hotel butter over the steak, set it into the oven for a 
moment ; put fried potatoes around the edge of the dish and serve at 
once. If you would have this dish in perfection, a portion of the fillet 
of sirloin should be used. 

CHILLI CON CARNI. 

(A Mexican dish.) 

Beefsteak (round), one tablespoonful of hot dripping, two large 
red peppers (dry), two tablespoonfuls of rice, one-half pint of boiling 
water, salt, onions, flour. 

Cut steaks into small pieces. Put into a frying-pan with hot 
dripping, hot water and rice. Cover closely, and cook steadily until 
tender. Remove seeds and part of rind from red peppers. Cover 
with the chilli water, add garlic and thyme. Simmer until cold, then 
squeeze them in the hand until the water is thick and red. If not 
thick enough, add a little flour. Season with salt and a little onion 
if desired. Heat and pour sauce on the meat. Serve very hot. 

BEEKSTEAK PIE. 

Cut two pounds of round steak into small squares. Cover 
(barely) with cold water and cook tender, very slowly. Cut two 



54 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



veal kidneys into cubes (if you can get it) a sweetbread, blanched 
by throwing it into cold water, after parboiline it. Drain the liquor 
from the beef, and let both get almost cold. Make a good gravy by 
thickening this liquor with a tablespoonful of butter rolled in 
browned flour, seasoning well with kitchen bouquet, onion juice, salt 
and pepper. Let it simmer two minutes. Arrange the beef, kidneys 
and sweetbread in neat layers in the dish, interspersing these with a 
dozen small oysters. Pour in the gravy, cover with a good crust, half 
an inch thick, and cook, covered, one hour ; then brown. 

BEEF AND RICE. 

Half pound raw beef and one-third cup of rice mixed; add half 
a teaspoon of pepper and one teaspoon of salt ; cook a cabbage in boil- 
ing salted water five minutes so the leaves wall be pliable and still 
remove from the head in perfect condition; now form the croquettes 
of the beef and rice and wrap each in a cabbage leaf; arrange them 
in a baking dish and pour over them tomatoes enough to cover all; 
serve arranged in a dish with the tomatoes poured around them. If 
the tomatoes become too thick in cooking dilute with stock or water. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. 

Remove skin and gristle from any cooked meat, using several 
kinds if on hand. Cold mashed potato, rice or other starchy vege- 
tables may be used if handy, but not more than one-third of the whole 
quantity. To each pint of food add two-thirds of a cupful of thick 
brown sauce (using two tablespoonfuls of flour to the cup of liquid). 
Add seasonings to suit and set away until cold. Form in small cro- 
quettes. Dip each in beaten egg, roll in fine dry crumbs. Fry in suf- 
ficient smoking^hot fat to immerse the croquettes. When brown drain 
an instant on soft paper. 

NEW YORK HASH. 

To every cupful of chopped cooked meat take two cupfuls of 
chopped potatoes, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half cupful of boiling 
water or stock, seasoning to taste. 

For this, beef is most generally taken, although corned beef, 
chicken, turkey, veal or even mutton may be used. The cold meat 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 55 



should be chopped rather fine, and the potatoes not chopped until cold. 
Season the meat and potatoes, put the water and butter over the fire, 
and when the water boils again add the meat and potatoes. Nothing 
is better to cook hash in than an old-fashioned iron saucepan or spider. 
The difficulty of making good hash lies in the cooking, for it must be 
stirred, yet not too much, or it will be pasty; the water should boil 
away, yet the hash must not be dry, nor yet watery. Let it cook, 
stirring occasionally, until there is a coating on the bottom of the pan 
from which the hash can be freed without sticking. Serve at once. 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

may be made in the same way, or using equal proportions of chopped 
meat and potatoes. Many prefer a slight flavoring of onion, when 
it is advisable to use a few drops of onion juice or extract rather than 
the chopped onion itself. 

BAKED HASH. 

Two cupfuls of meat, two cupfuls of potatoes, one tablespoonful 
of butter, two cupfuls of stock, seasoning to taste. 

Melt the butter in the frying-pan ; add the stock and, when 
heated, the meat and potato well mixed. Season to taste and stir oc- 
casionally until well heated. Turn into a greased baking dish and 
bake thirty minutes in a moderately quick oven. 

MEAT CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of chopped cooked meat, three tablespoonfuls of 
cracker crumbs, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one small 
onion, salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion very fine. Beat the eggs light without separating. 
Melt the butter, add to the cracker crumbs, mix with the eggs, meat 
and seasoning. Make into flat cakes and saute in butter or dripping. 

MEAT SAUSAGES. 

A pinch of thyme or sweet marjoram, three drops of lemon juice, 
two level teaspoonfuls of pepper, one-fourth cupful of pork, two cup- 
fuls of meat, yolks of two eggs. 

Use cooked meat and chop very fine. The pork should be meas- 
ured after chopping and should be less rather than more than the 



FRED. HOLLENDER & CO. (Inc.) 

'•I C. TIELENIUS 




J 


PRESIDENT 




123-127 LaPaycttc St. 




New York 


1 

) 


TEL. 3738 FRANKLIN 




Importers of Genuine 

PILSNER WURZBURGER, KAISER 

HUMBSER, MUENCHNER, CULMBACHER, 

FURSTENBERGBRAU 

Sole Agents for Rochester 

^^RIENZI" and "LIBERTY" BEER 

Sole Owners of the 

AUTOMATIC BEER CASKS 

Tnese Casks contain 25 or 50 glasses and can te operated by anybody 
Just tne thing for Clubs, Home Dinners, Reception or Card Parties 

ANY KIND OF IMPORTED BEER AND BASS' ALE 
SMALL CASKS. $1,75; LARGE CASKS, $3.50 

ROCHESTER BEER AND CIDER 

Small casks, 75c.; lar^e casks, $L50 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 57 



amount given. Mix the dry seasonings with the meat and pork, and 
add the yolks of the eggs beaten light. When thoroughly mixed, form 
into small, flat sausage cakes and saute in a frying-pan. 

CORNED BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Two cupfuls of finel3'-chopped cold corned beef, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, two cupfuls of mashed potato, one-fourth cupful 
of cream, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato and the cream, and 
stir until it is well mixed and heated. Add the meat, and the salt 
and pepper. Take from the stove, add the chopped parsley, and the 
egg beaten light without separating. Mix well, but gently, and put 
away to cool. Form into croquettes, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep, smoking-hot fat. These croquettes should 
be served with sauce. 

BEEF SPANISH. 

Two cups finely chopped cooked meat, two tablespoonful's of but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one small onion, one cupful of stock, 
one cupful of tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt and brown the butter, add the onion, sliced, and cook until 
delicately browned. Add the flour and brown, stirring all the while, 
then add the meat. Add the stock and tomatoes and cook until thor- 
oughly heated. Season and serve on a hot dish garnished with tim- 
bales of rice. 

CANNELON OF BEEF. 

One pound of lean beef from the round, two drops of celery ex- 
tract, one egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of mixed spices, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. 

Chop the beef fine. Melt the butter, add to the meat, with the 
egg beaten light without separating, and the flavorings. Mix well, 
and make into a roll. Grease a piece of brown paper and roll around 
the cannelon. Put on a shallow tin or baking-pan and bake thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with melted butter. 
Unroll the paper and serve the cannelon with a sauce. 



58 The New Lucile Cook Book, 



CECILS. 

Two cupfuls of chopped cooked beef, yolks of two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one table- 
spoonful of bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs, and when well mixed, the 
meat, seasoned. Add the beaten yolks of the eggs and stir in a sauce- 
pan over the fire until the mixture is heated through. Cool, form 
into small, round balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs and fry in 
smoking-hot fat. 



AN ITALIAN ENTREE OF BEEF'S TONGUE. 

This is a good way to warm up the remains of a boiled or roast 
fresh tongue. Slice, cover with oil and lemon juice, and leave in the 
marinade for one hour. Then add salt, pepper, some sliced onion, a 
little parsley and a few mushrooms cut into halves. Place in a frying- 
pan and cook slowly for about fifteen minutes, moistening with a 
tablespoonful of sherry and a little lemon juice; just before taking 
from the fire add a little brown stock, and a little tomato sauce, well 
seasoned. 

CREAMED CHIPPED BEEF. 

Remove the coarse threads on the edges of the beef; cover with 
boiling water and let stand on the back of the range where it will 
keep hot while the sauce is being made; drain the beef and stir into 
the sauce. A beaten egg may be added with the beef. Serve at once 
with baked potatoes. For the cream sauce, melt the butter, cook the 
flour in the melted butter until the mixture is frothy, then gradually 
stir in the cream, diluted with the water. Stir and cook until the 
sauce boils. This sauce is particularly good for bits of cooked chicken, 
ham, veal or lamb, for hard-cooked eggs cut in quarters and for 
cooked onions, cauliflower, carrots, peas or asparagus. 

One-half cup of cream, one cup of water, one and one-half cups 
of chipped beef, three level tablespoonfuls of butter, three level table- 
spoonfuls of flour. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 59 



BRAISING. 

Braising is a method of cooking which is something like both boil- 
ing and baking, but differs from either. It is a favorite French way 
of cooking, and is regarded as both economical and good, for it con- 
verts inferior pieces of meat into tender, tasty dishes. 

First of all a pan having a tightly-fitting cover is essential. In 
France a special cover is made in such shape that live coals can be 
spread over the top ; this is necessary because much of their cooking is 
done with charcoal. With our stoves we can use either metal or 
earthenware ; the later is preferable because the heat is kept more uni- 
form, but any kind of deep covered pan or kettle will do the work. 

The meat which is to be cooked is arranged in the pan or kettle 
with or without eatables according to the flavor desired, water, sauce 
stock or a savory sauce added; the dish is then tightly covered and 
placed in a slow oven to cook. From half an hour to one hour is 
allowed for each pound of meat, according to its toughness. The 
meat will brown some even while a part of the liquid is evaporating. 
When it is desired well browned the cover is removed half an hour 
before dishing. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

Take a piece weighing about five pounds from any lean cut such 
as cross rib, lower part of the round, neck, etc. Bone it if possible. 
Heat a dry frying-pan very hot, lay in it the meat and quickly sear on 
each side, giving it a nice color. Place in the braising kettle. Add a 
pint and a half of good brown stock, and onion stuck with three cloves 
and a high seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover closely, place in a 
moderate oven and allow forty minutes for each pound. If kept 
closely covered until entirely cold it makes a good relish when sliced 
and served with horseradish for lunch or supper. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON WITH SORREL SAUCE. 

Wipe a leg of young mutton with a damp cloth, then with a dry. 
Put into a covered roaster, dash a cupful of boiling water over it and 



6o The New Lucile Cook Book. 



roast at the rate of twelve minutes to each pound of the meat. Fif- 
teen minutes before serving remove the cover and brown. If you do 
not use a covered roaster baste the meat every fifteen minutes, while 
cooking, with the gravy in the pan. 

Do not send made mutton gravy to the table with it. Pass currant 
jelly wdth it and such a sauce as this: 

Mince a cupful of field sorrel — young and tender — and stir two 
tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into one of browned flour into a cup- 
ful of boiling water. Add the sorrel, a dash of paprika and salt. Cook 
for one minute, take from the fire and beat into it, a very little at a 
time, the w'ell-whipped yolk of an egg. Set in boiling water until the 
mutton is served. It must not cook. 

ROAST SADDLE OF LAMB. 

This is considered a choice roast. Prepare it for the oven by 
wiping first with a wet cloth, and then with a dry one. Have the 
oven hot, and baste frequently all the time the meat is baking. The 
time required for baking will depend upon the size of the roast ; three 
hours will be sufficient for a large saddle of mutton, a little less time 
will be required for lamb. Serve with mint sauce and fresh salad, 
and send to the table with it either peas, cauliflower or spinach. Loin 
and ribs of lamb are roasted in the same manner, and served with the 
same sauce as the above. 

SHEPHERD PIE. 

Chop some cold, cooked mutton quite fine. Measure and for each 
pint add salt and pepper to taste, a half teaspoonful of onion juice, a 
dash of curry powder and a half pint of brown sauce. Mix and 
spread in a greased dish. Cover with a thick layer of hot mashed 
potato, dabbling the top with a little beaten egg yolk. Brown in a 
quick oven. 

BOILING. 

Liquids boil at varying temperatures, according to their density. 
Water is usually taken as the standard; it boils at 212 degrees F., 
when at the level. When it is boiling the bubbles break at the sur- 
face of the water, steam escaping from each bubble. No matter how 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 6i 



rapid the boiling the temperature of boiling water can never go above 
212 degrees F. For this reason, in most cases, to cook food at a 
moderate boil is better than to have the water "galloping." But when 
rice or macaroni is to be cooked we keep the water at a rapid rate in 
order that the force of the moving bubbles may keep the particles 
separate from one another. On the other hand, when meat is boiled 
rapidly for some time, it seems tender, because the fibres separate 
readily; but, when examined carefully, it will be seen that each indi- 
vidual fibre is really tough. 

It gives true epicures the vapors 
To see boiled mutton minus capers, 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Have the butcher bone a shoulder of mutton or three pounds or 
more of the breast. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, roll it tightly 
and tie down with twine or a strip of muslin. Put the bones in the 
pot with a half teaspoonful of salt and sufficient water to cover the 
meat and heat to the boiling point. Weigh the meat. Allow fifteen 
minutes for it to heat through, and fifteen minutes for each pound. 
Put the meat in the pot, draw over the hottest part of the fire that it 
may boil as quickly as possible; draw back gradually until the water 
bubbles on but one side of the kettle. Keep closely covered. When 
done, take out a pint of the liquid, thicken it slightly with flour, 
smoothly mixed with a little cold water, season to taste and boil five 
minutes. A tablespoonful of fine barley, rice or other cereal, a small 
onion, a carrot or a bit of celery may also be added to the water to 
give flavor. 

Your mutton chops with paper cover, 
And make them amber-brown all over. 

FRIED MUTTON OR LAMB CHOPS, PLAIN. 

Prepare as for broiling; then put an ounce of butter or drippings 
into your saucepan on the stove. Fry a nice brown, turning as soon 
as sufficiently cooked, that both sides of the meat may be seared before 
the juices have time to escape. When done, remove to a hot platter, 
sprinkle with pepper, salt and bits of butter, or use a dressing of 
maitre d'hotel butter. Set in the oven a moment, and serve. A nice 



62 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



gravy may be made by putting a cup of hot water or stock into the 
saucepan, thickening with browned flour and adding any flavoring 
you choose. 

LAMB CHOPS BREADED. 

Prepare as for plain fried chops; then dip in beaten egg, roll in 
finely sifted cracker or bread crumbs and fry or saute in clarified 
drippings, using enough to float the chops. When a golden brown 
remove from the kettle, drain, arrange on a hot platter, garnish with 
parsley or cress, and serve. Remember that the drippings must be hot 
before you attempt to cook the chops. Test by putting a bit of stale 
bread into the kettle; if it browns at once put in the chops. Aspara- 
gus, spinach or peas are the favorite accompaniment for lamb chops. 

Kidneys fine flavor gain 

By stewing them in good champagne. 

FRIED KIDNEYS. 

Cut three pairs of lambs' kidneys into halves. Fry eight thin 
slices of bacon until done; remove from the fire and keep hot while 
you fry the halved kidneys in the bacon fat. Cook slowly for ten 
minutes, turning often. Remove the kidneys and keep hot with the 
bacon while you stir a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and the 
same quantity of catsup into the gravy left in the pan. 

Put crustless slices of toasted bread on a platter, lay the kidneys 
on these, pour the gravy over them and dispose the crisp slices of 
bacon about the edge of the platter. 

LAMB SWEETBREADS STEWED. 

Soak three sweetbreads in warm water for one hour and then 
parboil them twenty minutes; throw them into cold water for ten 
minutes, to whiten them ; put them in a stew-pan with a pint of good 
stock and simmer gently for rather more than half an hour. Dish 
them, thicken the gravy with flour, rub smooth in butter; let boil, and 
add one tablespoon ful lemon juice, six tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
salt and white pepper to taste; allow the sauce to get quite hot but 
do not boil ; pour it over the sweetbreads and serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 63 



MUTTON RAGOUT. 

Two cupfuls of chopped cold meat, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one cupful of stock, one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of catsup, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

Melt and brown the butter, add the flour, stir until smooth and 
brown. Add the stock ; cook until it thickens. Add the mutton, turn 
into a farina boiler and cook for twenty minutes. When ready to 
serve, add the Worcestershire sauce and catsup; season further, if 
necessary, and serve. 

FAMILY STEW OF LAMB AND PEAS. 

Cut two pounds of coarse lean lamb into dice. There must be 
neither fat nor bone in it. Fry a sliced onion brown in two table- 
spoonfuls of dripping or butter. Strain the fat back into the pan, 
dredge the meat with flour and fry for three minutes in it, turning 
to sear both sides. Turn meat and fat into a saucepan, add a cupful 
of stock or of butter and water, cover closely and stew for an hour, or 
until the lamb is tender. Put in then a cupful of green peas with 
three leaves of green mint. Cover again and cook until the peas are 
tender, but not until they break. Have ready a broad dish lined with 
slices of toast soaked in tomato sauce. Take up meat and peas in a 
perforated skimmer and lay upon the toast. Keep hot, while you 
thicken the gravy left in the pot with a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in one of browned flour ; season, boil up and pour over the stew. Let 
it stand one minute and serve. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

Two cupfuls of chopped cooked mutton, one teaspoonful of curry 
powder, two cupfuls of stock, two teaspoonfuls of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one very small 
onion, salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion fine and brown in the butter with the curry pow- 
der. Add the flour, stir until smooth and brown. Add the stock and 
the meat, and when the sauce has sufficiently thickened, season and 
serve. One cupful of meat and one of vegetables may be used, lima 
beans or peas giving the best flavor. 



64 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



LAMB CROQUETTES. 

Two cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked lamb, one cupful of boiled 
rice, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, one cupful of cream, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one table- 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
then add the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Mix the meat, 
rice, parsley and seasoning well together. Mix with the thickened 
milk and cool. When cool, form into cone-shaped croquettes, cover 
with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking-hot fat. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND LIVER. 

Boil a cupful of rice in a quart of water until reduced to a soft 
paste. Mash this rice paste smooth with two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and salt and pepper to taste. Line a well-greased casserole with the 
mixture, pressing the paste firmly against bottom and sides, and leav- 
ing a large hollow in the centre. Set in a cold place until stiff and 
firm. Meanwhile boil a pound of lamb's liver, drain and chop fine. 
Heat in a saucepan two cupfuls of soup stock, season with a teaspoon- 
ful of kitchen bouquet, thicken with browned flour and stir into this 
sauce the minced liver. Fill the hollow in the centre of the rice with 
the liver mixture, sprinkle with bread crumbs and set in the oven to 
brown. 

PILAFF OF LAMB. 

Half cup of rice, two cupfuls of chopped cold lamb, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. 

Boil the rice in plenty of boiling, salted water for twenty minutes, 
or until tender. Drain and mix with the finely-chopped meat, which 
should be seasoned with salt, pepper and a few drops of celery extract. 
Add the butter, melted, and when the meat is heated turn the rice 
and meat into a greased tin mold. Place in the oven for ten minutes, 
or until the pilaff will keep its form when turned out of the mold. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

MUTTON SCALLOP. 

Two cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked meat, one cupful of tomato 
sauce, half cupful of bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of butter. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 65 



Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs and stir until they are thor- 
oughly greased. Season the meat with salt, pepper, a drop or two of 
onion juice or other suitable seasoning. Fill a greased baking disli 
with alternate layers of the meat, sauce and bread crumbs, covering 
the top with crumbs. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven and 
serve. 

LAMB SOUFFLE. 

Melt three level teaspoonfuls of butter; cook in it a slice of onion 
and half a green pepper pod until the vegetables are yellowed but not 
browned ; add two level tablespoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of paprika, and cook until frothy, then stir in, gradu- 
ally, three-fourths a cup of cream diluted with a cup and a fourth of 
lamb broth or boiling water ; stir and cook until the sauce boils, then 
strain over half a cup of fine, soft bread crumbs ; beat in the yolks of 
three eggs, beaten light, and when these are cooked slightly remove 
from the fire and stir in one pint of cooked lamb, chopped fine ; lastly 
fold in the whites of three eggs beaten dry. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes. To 
serve six. 

CREAMED LAMB WITH PEAS. 

Stamp out rounds from seven slices of bread; toast these, dip the 
edges in salted boiling water and spread with butter. In the mean- 
time, melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, cook in this two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika, 
then gradually stir in half a cup of cream and half a cup of boiling 
water; stir until the sauce thickens, then stir in about a cup and a 
quarter of cooked lamb, cut in small pieces. Dispose this on the 
rounds of toast with a spoonful of hot, cooked peas, seasoned with 
butter, salt and pepper on the top of each. 

VEAL. 

Roast veal, with rich stock gravy serve; 
And pickled mushrooms, too, observe. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Prepare the roast by wiping first with a wet cloth and then with 
a dry one. Put a cup of water and an ounce of butter into the baking- 



66 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

pan to baste with. When half done, add a little salt to the gravy. 
Bake in a rather hot oven until thoroughly done, basting freely and 
at the last with butter. Remove to a hot platter, thicken the gravy, 
and serve. 

STUFFED ROAST FILLET OF VEAL. 

Take out the central bone and skewer the fillet into a neat round. 
Make a force-meat of crumbs, minced pork, onion juice, parsley and 
half a can of mushrooms, minced. Wet with a few spoonfuls of stock 
or gravy; fill the bone-hole and ram the stuffing into the folds of the 
meat from both sides. Lay on your covered roaster, cover with very 
thin slices of fat salt pork, and dash a cupful of boiling water over 
top and sides. Roast, covered, twelve minutes to the pound. Fifteen 
minutes before you draw it from the oven remove the pork, wash with 
butter and dredge with browned flour. Then brown, uncovered. 

The fillet should be basted four times while roasting. After the 
fourth basting draw ofiF a cupful of gravy from the dripping-pan, set 
on ice, or in cold water until the fat rises, skim, add four tablespoon- 
fuls of strained tomato juice, thicken with browned flour, and cook 
three minutes before pouring into a gravy-boat. 

BREAST OF VEAL A LA JARDINIERE. 

Lard with strips of fat salt pork, and sprinkle with paprika. 
Dredge with flour and lay upon the grating of your covered roaster, 
add enough boiling water to cover it barel}^ and roast for an hour, 
basting with the gravy every ten or fifteen minutes. Then turn on 
the other side and spread over the roast a pint of tomatoes peeled and 
sliced, two onions, chopped fine, two sprigs of parsley, chopped fine, 
and two chopped peppers. Baste for another hour every ten minutes. 
When the meat is removed keep hot while you take up the vegetables 
with a split spoon, and keep them hot also. Strain the gravy, thicken 
with browned flour, and put into a boat. Lay the vegetables about 
the meat upon a metal or fireproof dish, dredge this last with browned 
crumbs, and dot with softened butter. Set upon the top grating of 
the oven for five minutes to brown and send to table in the dish. 

BAKED CALF'S HEAD. 

The head should be cleaned with the skin left on, also the ears, 
and split down the under side, leaving the top unbroken. Remove 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 67 

the tongue and brains, parboil and set them on ice. Put the head on 
in plenty of cold water, boil quickly and for one minute after the 
boiling point is reached. Take the head off and lay in ice-cold water. 
Change this for colder in ten minutes, and leave in this for several 
hours. 

Then put over the fire in boiling water, to which a tablespoonful 
of vinegar has been added, and a tablespoonful of salt. Cook gently 
until you can slip out the bones easily. 

Do this, drawing the teeth, cheek-bones and skull, taking care not 
to break the upper skin. Put into a bake-dish, restoring the shape as 
well as you can. Cut the tongue into slices and lay close against the 
cheeks; wash plentifully with butter rubbed to a cream with lemon 
juice, sift dry crumbs all over it and bake, covered, half an hour. 
Then brown. 

To make the gravy, rub the brains to a soft paste; pepper and 
salt, season with tomato catsup and onion juice, add enough of the 
liquor in which the head was boiled to make a boatful of gravy, 
thicken with butter rolled in flour, simmer five minutes and serve. 

There is no more savory preparation of calf's head than this. It 
goes to table in the bake-dish. The liquor from the pot in which it 
had the second boiling makes excellent soup stock. 

ROAST SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil two pairs of sweetbreads and blanch by throwing them 
into cold water. Drain, pierce three or four holes in each and press 
into these holes narrow strips of fat salt pork, allowing the strips to 
project a half-inch on each side. Lay the sweetbreads in a roasting- 
pan, pour a cupful of weak veal stock over them and rub them with 
melted butter. Cover and bake for twenty-five minutes. 

ROAST CALVES' HEARTS. 

You will need two hearts for a dish of moderate size. Wash them 
thoroughly, leaving in salt and water for an hour, to draw out the 
blood. Run a slender, keen knife from the large end of each heart 
straight to the centre, turning it around several times to make a cen- 
tral hole for the force-meat stuffing. Make this of cracker crumbs 
highly seasoned with onion juice, salt and pepper, thyme or mar- 



68 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



ioram. Moisten with melted butter, or use hot water and a little fat 
pork or bacon finely chopped. Sew the opening together, and thrust 
in several lardoons of salt pork. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. 
Fry one sliced onion in dripping in a frying-pan. Put in the heart 
and brown it lightly all over. Pour in stock to cover it — barely — 
add a bay leaf, two slices of carrot and one teaspoonful of salt. Cover 
the pan and cook in a moderate oven about two hours, or until very 
tender. 

When done remove the strings, put the hearts upon a hot dish, 
and thicken the gravy with browned flour. Add lemon juice and 
other seasoning if needed. Strain over the hearts. Garnish with 
Parisian potatoes alternately with small tomatoes, pared and baked. 
Pour melted butter and minced parsley over potatoes and tomatoes. 

VEAL POT-PIE. 

Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal in pieces about two inches 
square, put them in a kettle with a few very thin slices of fat salt 
pork, and enough water to just cover them, allow to boil very slowly 
until well done and very tender ; it will require about two hours ; half 
an hour before the meat is done, add salt and white pepper to taste, 
and if light a very little nutmeg and just a hint of cayenne; when 
done, thicken the gravy, by adding two tablespoonfuls of flour and 
the same quantity of butter, rub smoothly together. If the gravy is 
too thin, add more flour — it should be of the consistency of cold 
cream ; keep the same quantity of water by adding more as it boils 
away. Have ready a tin of warm soda and cream of tartar or baking- 
powder biscuit, break them open and lay them on a hot platter, crusts 
down; pour over them the meat and gravy, and serve very hot. If 
preferred, roll the dough about an inch thick, lay in the pot on top ot 
the meat, cover closely, and steam twenty-five minutes; or cut in 
biscuit form, and steam. In either case thicken the gravy and serve 
as before. The pork may be omitted, if objectionable, though its 
flavor is usually liked with veal. A small onion, sliced and put in the 
kettle with the meat, is an improvement for most tastes. Any kind 
of meat suitable for pot-pies may be prepared after the above direc- 
tions. Cold cooked meats may be converted into pot-pies, by using 
stock, which you can easily prepare from the bones and trimmings for 
the gravy in which the meats should be heated, not boiled. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 69 



CALF'S LIVER A LA JARDINIERE. 

Lard a large liver with strips of fat salt pork. Cover the bottom 
of a large saucepan with a carrot and a young turnip (all cut into 
dice), six very small onions, a handful of green peas and the same of 
string beans cut into short lengths. Lay the liver upon these, pepper 
it and pour in a cupful of stock, or a cupful of hot water in which a 
tablespoonful of butter has been melted. Cover closely and cook an 
hour and a half without opening. In a bake-pan cook four peeled 
tomatoes of medium size. Take up the liver and the vegetables, the 
latter with a split spoon. Lay the liver upon a hot dish, group the 
vegetables (the tomatoes included), each of a kind together, about it; 
keep hot in the oven while you strain the gravy into a saucepan, add 
a great spoonful of catsup and a tablespoonful of browned flour wet 
with cold water, and cook for one minute. Pour a few spoonfuls 
over liver and vegetables, the rest into a boat. 

A GOOD PREPARATION OF VEAL. 

1. The following is an excellent mode of preparing veal to be 
eaten cold, and for keeping it on hand for several days for immediate 
use; take, say, three and a half pounds (the thick part of the leg is 
preferable), with the tough tendonous parts removed, chop it fine 
without cooking; mix well with it four soda crackers rolled fine, three 
well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonfTil of 
pepper, half a nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of cream or a small piece 
of butter; make it into a loaf and bake in a dripping-pan without 
water, with quick heat at first to close the outside and retain the 
juices, and continue the baking from one and a quarter to one and a 
half hours; serve, cut in thin slices. An excellent lunch in traveling. 

2. Butter a good-sized bowl, and line it with thin slices of hard- 
boiled eggs; have veal and ham both in very thin slices; place in the 
bowl a layer of veal with pepper and salt, then a layer of ham, omit- 
ting the salt, then a layer of veal, and so on, alternating with veal 
and ham until the bowl is filled. Make a paste of flour and water 
as stiff as it can be rolled out, cover the contents of the bowl with the 
paste and over this tie a double cotton cloth; put the bowl into a 
saucepan or other vessel, with water just to the rim of the bowl, and 
boil three hours, then take it from the fire, remove the cloth and paste 



.M 



In keeping with the high standard which governs 
everything in our establishment 

"ESCOFFIER" 



SAUCES AND CONDIMENTS 

THEY'RE ENGLISH 



LOUIT FRERES 

FRENCH TABLE DELICACIES 



^ Every -woman of refinement is appreciative 
of the subtle charm of the Exquisite Perfum- 
ery Creations of EUGENE RIMMEL, of 
London and Pans. 

^ A. great variety of toilet requisites always 
on nana. 

ACKER, MERRALL 

^ 

CONDIT COMPANY 

SOLE AGENT''" 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 71 



and let it stand until next day, when it may be turned out and served 
in very thin slices. 

VEAL SOUFFLE. 

Two cupfuls of chopped cooked veal, three eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, one cupful of cream, one cupful of milk, seasoning 
to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning, add the flour, stir until 
smooth. Add the cream and milk; stir until it thickens. Add the 
veal to the sauce and, when it is thoroughly heated, add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Take from the fire and cool. When ready to use, 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth ; mix them gently with 
the meat and sauce. Turn into a greased baking dish and bake for 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Veal cutlet dip in egg and bread crumb ; 
Fry till you see a brownish red come. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Take one egg and beat it a little, roll the cutlet in it, then cover 
with rolled crackers. Have a lump of butter and lard mixed hot in a 
skillet, put in the meat and cook slowly. When nicely browned on 
both sides, stir in one tablespoonful of flour for gravy; add half a pint 
of sweet milk, and let it come to a boil. Season to taste, and pour 
over the meat or serve in a different dish as preferred. 

VEAL CUTLETS.— Broiled. 

Cut the veal half an inch thick, scrape the ends of che bone, if 
they are rib cutlets, for an inch or so, to make them smooth and white. 
Trim and pound the cutlets, then broil over a clear fire, turning often 
until thoroughly done, — rare veal is detestable ; remove to a hot plat- 
ter, put bits of butter over the cutlets, sprinkle slightly with salt and 
white pepper, set in the oven a moment, and serve. Or dress with 
maitre d'hotel butter. Follow the above directions in cooking veal 
steaks, mutton and lamb chops, and cutlets. 



72 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



VEAL FRICASSEE. 

Cut four pounds of veal in small pieces, put in the kettle cold 
water enough to cover, let come to a boil and skim ; set where it will 
boil slowly until very tender, adding, just before it is done, salt and 
a slight sprinkling of white pepper. Thicken the gravy by adding the 
following: Rub smoothly three tablespoonfuls of butter and the same 
of flour, remove from the fire and stir in slowly to prevent lumps, 
return to the fire, let boil up once, and it is ready to serve. Have 
ready a tin of warm biscuits, break open, lay upon a hot platter, press 
down and pour over the fricassee. A very small onion cooked with 
the meat is a welcome addition to some, but there should be only a 
suggestion of the onion. Add a squeeze of lemon juice just before 
serving. 

BRAISED VEAL. 

Have the butcher remove the bones from a shoulder of veal. Make 
a stuffing with a quart of stale bread, one chopped onion, a high 
seasoning of salt, pepper and thyme, and six tablespoonfuls of melted 
beef suet. Stuff and tie the meat in shape. In the bottom of the pan 
put a layer each of sliced carrot and onion, and a bit of bay leaf, two 
cloves and six peppercorns; on this place the meat. Pour round it a 
pint of stock (made from the bones), or water and a cupful of cooked 
tomato. Add salt and pepper. Cover closely. Place in a slow oven. 
Allow three-quarters of an hour for each pound (with bones re- 
moved). Strain the sauce, diluting if necessary. A knuckle of veal 
may be cooked in the same way, allowing an hour per pound. 

CALF'S BRAIN.— Sauted or Fried. 

Take the membrane from the outside of the brain; soak in cold 
water two or three hours; then put into a saucepan on the stove with 
a pint of cold water, half a tablespoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful 
of vinegar ; boil five minutes, plunge into cold water for ten minutes, 
and set in a cool place. When ready to cook, cut in inch pieces, dip 
in beaten egg, roll in cracker dust and fry in butter or drippings. 
Serve with tomato sauce; or you may have brains a la Milanaise, by 
cooking some macaroni with your tomato sauce and putting it around 
the brains. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 73 



VEAL PIE. 

Cut three pounds of lean veal into inch-square cubes; put into a 
saucepan with a cupful of cold water, and heat slowly. Remove the 
scum as it begins to boil; add two small onions, sliced, two table- 
spoonfuls of carrot cubes, and one teaspoonful of salt. Let it simmer 
until very tender. Put the meat then into a deep baking dish. 

Let the liquor boil down to one cupful and a half, strain it and 
remove most of the fat. Add one-half cupful of cream or of rich 
milk, and pepper to taste. Thicken it with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed in one of butter; cook it five minutes, and strain it over the 
meat. If you have any cold boiled ham you may add a little of it to 
the veal, cutting it into tiny pieces. 

Cover with a rich biscuit dough, half an inch thick, and bake one 
hour, covered with thick paper. Uncover and brown. 

KIDNEY PIE. 

Cut four kidneys into neat squares and stew gently in weak stock 
for half an hour. Cook a quarter-pound of macaroni till tender, and 
cut it into inch lengths. Butter a baking dish and put in a layer of 
macaroni; over that spread a layer of sliced kidneys, seasoned with 
pepper, salt and made mustard. Sprinkle over a little flour, and add 
a layer of tomatoes. Repeat these layers and cover with fine bread- 
crumbs when the dish is filled. Pour in a rich gravy made from the 
stock in which the kidneys were stewed ; put small bits of butter over 
the crumbs on top, and bake steadily for one hour. 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one cup- 
ful of stock, one cupful of cream, yolks of two eggs, twelve button 
mushrooms, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste, two cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked veal. 

Melt the butter without browning, add the flour and stir until 
smooth. Add the liquid, and when the sauce begins to thicken add 
the meat and the mushrooms cut in pieces. Stir until the sauce 
thickens, and when ready to serve, add the yolks of the eggs beaten 
light, and the parsley. Stir the eggs gently into the sauce, cooking for 
one minute only. Long standing, or too long cooking, cooks the eggs 



74 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



too much so they separate from the sauce. The blanquette may be 
garnished with whole mushrooms which have been heated in their 
own h'quor. 

The above recipe may be used for making veal patties or the fill- 
ing of bouche cases. In that case they would be more delicious if part 
sweetbreads were used with the chopped veal. 

VEAL PATTIES. 

Mince a little cold veal and ham, allowing one-third ham to two- 
thirds veal; add a hard-boiled egg chopped, and a seasoning of 
pounded mace, salt, pepper and lemon-peel; moisten with a little 
gravy and cream. Make a good puff-paste, roll rather thin, and cut 
it into round or square pieces; put the mince between two of them, 
pinch the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry a light brown in beef 
drippings. They may also be baked in patty-pans; in that case they 
should be brushed over with beaten egg before they are put in the 
oven. Oysters may be substituted for the ham with good effect. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Half cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, three pounds of veal, 
three tablespoonfuls of cream, two teaspoonfuls of salt, three eggs, 
one-fourth cupful of butter, half pound of ham, one teaspoonful of 
black pepper, half teaspoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of onion 
juice, two teaspoonfuls of summer savory. 

Chop the veal and ham very fine. Beat the eggs, without separat- 
ing, until light, and melt the butter. Mix the veal, ham, crumbs and 
seasonings well together; add the eggs, and, when well mixed, the 
cream and melted butter. Mix thoroughly. Press into a mold pre- 
viously wet with cold water, and turn out carefully onto a flat baking- 
pan. Bake for two hours in a moderate oven, basting occasionally 
with melted butter. 

SPECIAL SAVORY. 

Cut into half-inch square pieces an onion, a seedless green pepper, 
a seeded tomato, a cored apple and, if possible, a small piece of garlic. 
Melt a large tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, add above ingredi- 
ents, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour. Lightly stir and add 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 75 



a pound each of raw lean veal and pork cut into one-inch squares, and 
a half a pound seeded eggplant cut into three-quarter-inch pieces. Sea- 
son with a teaspoonful of curry powder, a saltspoonful of salt, a half 
teaspoonful of pepper and cook for ten minutes. Moisten with a pint 
of water. Tie in a bunch a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay 
leaf and place in pan. Cover pan, boil for five minutes and set in 
oven for an hour, being careful to mix once in a while. Remove, take 
out bouquet, arrange with boiled rice and serve. 

PORK. 

Roast pork sans apple sauce past doubt 
Is Hamlet with the Prince left out. 

ROAST PORK. 

Score the skin until the knife touches the meat under it. Rub 
into these lines or squares a mixture of fine crumbs seasoned with 
onion juice, a little grated lemon-peel and the juice of half a lemon, 
with pepper and salt to taste. Work in well until the stuffing stands 
out of the cracks. Put into your roaster, with a cupful of hot water 
under it, and after covering bring quickly to the point at which the 
water begins to steam. Slacken the heat then, and cook twenty-five 
minutes to the pound, basting often with its own gravy. 

Pour off this gravy twenty minutes before taking the meat up, 
and set in a bowl of ice to send all the fat to the top. Greasy pork 
gravy is an offense to the educated palate. Thicken with browned 
flour. 

A better plan is not to attempt to make gravy, but to send around 
apple sauce alone with the roast. 

CHINE OF PORK BRAISED WITH APPLES. 

Instruct your butcher to cut the chine with plenty of meat on 
both sides of the bone. Sprinkle it well with pepper and salt, and 
lightly with sage and sweet marjoram. Pare, core and cut into thick 
slices three large, tart apples. Cover the grating of your roaster with 
them, strew with sugar and lay the chine upon them. Dot the meat 
with butter ; cover and roast twenty-five minutes to the pound. At the 
end of that time transfer the meat to a dripping-pan, turning it over 
that the side which has lain upon the apples may be uppermost. Wash 



76 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



with butter, cover tliick with salted and peppered crumbs, and brown 
upon the upper grating of a hot oven while you make the gravy. 

To do tliis rub the cooked apple and the liquor with them through 
a colander into a saucepan, add a little hot water, a lump of butter 
rolled in flour, and, if very tart, a little sugar; pepper and salt to 
taste, boil up and turn into a boat. 

Serve peas, pudding or beans in some shape with the chine. 

ROAST SPARE-RIBS. 

This joint frequently comes to the table hard and dry from lack 
of basting. Put the spare-rib into a hot oven, put a cup of salted hot 
water into the baking-pan and baste constantly until the meat is done ; 
remove to a hot platter, turn off the drippings; add a cup of hot water 
to the glaze in the dripping-pan, let boil up, thicken with browned 
flour, season to taste; add a teaspoonful of finely chopped cucumber 
pickle and serve. Turn the spare-rib once in baking, that both sides 
may be browned. Powdered sage may be sprinkled over the spare-rib 
before it is put into the oven, and is considered an improvement by 
many. Spare-rib may be baked with a dressing; break the ribs across 
the middle so that they will fold, lay some force-meat or dressing on 
one-half and fold the other over it ; serve stewed apple with spare-rib. 

ROAST LITTLE PIG. 

A roasting pig should not be more than four weeks old; put the 
pig into cold water directly it is killed ; let it remain a few moments, 
then immerse it in a large pan of boiling water for a few minutes. 
Take it out and pull off the hair as quickly as possible. When the 
skin looks clean, make a slit down the underside of the pig and remove 
the entrails, well clean the nostrils and ears, wash the pig in cold 
M^ater and wipe it thoroughly dry. Take off the feet at the first joint 
and loosen and leave sufficient skin to turn neatly over. After pre- 
paring the pig for cooking, stuff it with a dressing made of finely 
grated bread crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and 
put into the body of the pig. Sew up the slit neatly; rub the pig over 
with a little butter, a very slight coating, or salad oil; put it into a 
baking-pan and bake in a rather hot oven, basting often with melted 
butter until there are sufficient drippings from the meat; turn, that 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 77 



it may brown nicely all over ; when perfectly done, place the pig on 
its side on a hot platter, or if the feet were skillfully removed, you 
can, if you choose, stand him on all fours. Put a small ear of corn in 
his mouth, and he is ready to carve. If your pig is too large to make 
a nice appearance on the table, let the head be removed. Pour the 
drippings from the baking-pan, set the pan on the top of the stove, add 
a cup of hot water, season with pepper and salt, thicken with browned 
flour, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and send to the table in a gravy- 
boat. Apple sauce and the old-fashioned currant sauce are not yet 
obsolete as an accompaniment for roast pig. 

PORK CUTLETS OR CHOPS, PLAIN. 

Cut the cutlets from a delicate loin of pork, bone and trim them 
neatly, and cut away the greater portion of the fat. Place the grid- 
iron on the fire; when hot lay the chops on and broil fifteen minutes; 
turn them three or four times, and be particular that they are thor- 
oughly done, but not dry. Dish them, sprinkle over them a little fine 
salt and white pepper, and serve plain or with tomato sauce, sauce 
piquante or pickled cucumbers, a few of which should be laid around 
the dish as a garnish. 

PORK CUTLETS BREADED. 

Cut the cutlets from a loin of pork, scrape the top part of the 
bone, cut away most of the fat, and dip them in a dressing made as 
follows: One egg beaten thoroughly, half a teaspoonful of minced or 
pounded sage, pepper and salt to taste. Dip the cutlets in the dress- 
ing, roll in cracker dust, and fry rather slowly until thoroughly done ; 
let them fry a nice brown before turning, as one turn should be suffi- 
cient; serve with mashed potatoes. Tomato sauce is well suited to 
pork cutlets. 

PORK TENDERLOINS. 

Broil over a clear, steady fire, turning as often as they begin to 
drip. Allow twenty minutes, if small ; more when large. Lay upon 
a heated dish, cover with a mixture of butter, lemon juice, onion 
juice, pepper, salt and a dash of powdered sage. Turn over and over 



78 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

in this as it melts ; cover closely and leave over hot water several min- 
utes to let the seasoning sink into the meat. 

Serve browned whole potatoes and apple sauce with them. 

PORK PIES. 

Cut some thin slices of fat pork (if salt, parboil them), then put 
n layer of pork into a baking-pan and season it with white pepper, 
mace or nutmeg, and salt, if necessary; add some slices of apple, 
cored, peeled and sprinkled with sugar. Proceed in this order until 
you have the required quantity ; let the last layer be of apples. Cover 
with puff-paste, or a crust made after the recipe given for soda arid 
cream of tartar biscuit. Just before the pie is done, brush over the 
top with beaten egg or melted butter. Some cooks put a glass of 
sw^eet cider into this pie before putting on the cover. 

FRIED SALT PORK. 

Take very fat side pork, cut in thin slices, remove the skin, lay in 
cold water for half an hour, then set the dish on the stove and let the 
water become scalding hot, but do not allow to boil, as boiling will 
shrivel the meat ; remove the meat, drain, dip in flour, lay in a frying- 
pan which has been moderately heated, and fry a nice brown on both 
sides ; your frying-pan must be quite hot or the pork will not brown. 
When done, crisp and golden brown, remove to a hot platter, drain 
every drop of the dripping from the frying-pan leaving the sediment 
of slightly browned flour at the bottom; now add a cup of thick, 
sweet cream, let boil up and if your gravy is not thick enough, add a 
small tablespoonful of flour stirred smooth in a little cold milk; let 
boil enough to cook the flour, season with pepper and salt, and send 
to the table in a gravy-boat. Milk may be used in the absence of 
cream, in which case you must add a small piece of butter, but it 
makes a very inferior gravy. Serve with baked potatoes. 

SALT PORK FRIED IN BATTER. 

Prepare as for plain fried salt pork; fry without putting in flour 
and when ready to remove from the frying-pan dip into batter made 
as follows: One egg beaten light, two tablespoonfuls of milk, and 
two tablespoonfuls sifted flour, or enough to make a rather thin bat- 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 79 

ter; stir until smooth, add a little salt, dip the fried pork into the bat- 
ter, put quickly back into the hot drippings ; turn as soon as it browns. 

BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over, wash, and put to soak over night a quart of dry beans; 
in the morning put them over to boil in two quarts of cold water; 
boil slowly half an hour, then drain off the water, and put on more; 
use hot water this time, the same quantity as before, boil half an hour 
and pour oflE this water ; now put enough hot water into the kettle to 
a good deal more than cover the beans. Put half a pound of pickled 
pork, which has been well parboiled, into the kettle and boil yellow 
until the beans are thoroughly cooked, adding water from time to 
time, if necessary. Remove to a baking-pan, add pepper, salt, if neces- 
sary and if liked, a tablespoonful of molasses or the same quantity of 
sugar ; put the pork in the centre of the dish with the skin side, scored, 
up, and bake in a hot oven until both pork and beans are of a light 
golden brown. See that there is plenty of moisture in the baking-pan 
when it is put into the oven, it will require a good deal ; when cold, 
baked beans should cut smooth and solid like cheese, and should be as 
moist as they can be and hold together; if they crumble, they have 
been baked too dry. Serve in the dish in which they were baked. It 
may be made presentable by pinning a folded napkin around it ; there 
should be always at hand a dainty case of some kind for such dishes. 

SAUSAGES. 

Three teaspoonfuls of sifted sage, two pounds of lean, fresh pork, 
two teaspoonfuls of white pepper, one pound of fat, fresh pork, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of allspice, three teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Chop the meat, fat and lean together, very fine, and mix thor- 
oughly with the seasonings. Make cotton bags the desired shape and 
length ; dip them in a strong brine and dry. Attach the sausage stuffer 
to the meat chopper, and with it press the meat into the bags as closely 
as possible ; tie the bags tightly and hang in a cool place. When using 
sausage from these the end should be turned back, and after the de- 
sired amount has been cut off, tie closely again. Cut the sausage in 
slices and saute until brown. 



8o The New Lucile Cook Book. 



SCRAPPLE. 

Separate one small hog's head into halves. Take out the eyes and 
brains; scrape and thoroughly clean the head. Put it into a large 
kettle, cover with four or five quarts of cold water, and simmer gently 
for two or three hours, or until the meat falls from the bones. Skim 
the grease carefully from the surface, remove the meat, chop fine, and 
return it to the liquor. Season it with one teaspoonful of powdered 
sage, salt and pepper. Sift in granulated yellow cornmeal, stirring 
constantly until it is the consistency of soft mush. Cook slowly for 
one hour, watching carefully, as it scorches easily. When cooked, 
pour into a greased, oblong tin, and put in a cold place. Cut in thin 
slices, and fry crisp and brown. 

BACON AND APPLES. 

This is a favorite southern dish, and good enough to be trans- 
planted. 

Slice bacon thin and fry it crisp. Transfer to a platter and keep 
it hot while you fry thick slices of unpeeled sweet apples in the bacon 
fat. When these are tender, drain and put in the centre of a hot 
platter. Lay the fried bacon about the edge of the dish, sprinkle 
sugar over the apples, and serve. 

TO BAKE A HAM. 

As a ham for baking should be well soaked, let it remain in water 
for at least twelve hours. Wipe it dry, trim away any rusty places 
underneath, and scrape and wash the skin until perfectly clean ; cover 
it with a common crust, taking care that this is of sufficient thickness 
to keep the gravy in ; place it in a moderately heated oven, and bake 
four or five hours, if the ham is a small one, longer if it is large. 
When done, take off the crust and skin, brush over with beaten yolk 
of egg, dust with finely sifted bread crumbs or cracker dust; return 
to the oven and let brown, or glaze the ham when you have removed 
the crust and skin ; in that case you will not return it to the oven. A 
ham may be baked without a crust, but a crust keeps the juices in, 
which give it a fine flavor, besides it will keep longer. This method 
of cooking is considered next to boiling. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



BOILED HAM. 

Soak eight hours, and scrub it hard with a stiff brush or whisk 
to get out salt and dirt. Cover with an abundance of cold water, and 
put into it two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Heat very gradually. At 
the end of the first hour it should not have reached the boiling point. 
Simmer gently four or five hours. Allow twenty minutes to every 
pound for a corned ham ; twenty-five for a smoked. Let it get almost 
cold in the liquor — entirely cold before you skin it. 

BROILED HAM. 

Prepare the ham as for frying, but cut the slices thinner ; remove 
most of the fat; the fire must be beautifully clear or the ham will 
have a smoky flavor far from agreeable. Serve poached eggs with 
broiled ham. 

FRIED HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut the ham in rather thin slices, taking care that they are the 
same thickness in every part. Cut off the rind, and if the ham should 
be to salt, soak it fifteen minutes in hot water and then dry it in a 
cloth. Put it into a frying-pan, set it over the fire, and fry until thor- 
oughly done and a nice brown ; then remove to a hot platter. Break 
the required number of eggs into a saucer, one at a time, slip them 
into the ham drippings, dip the hot gravy over the eggs until a white 
film covers the top of each; then remove them from the frying-pan, 
place them on the slices of ham, or serve on a separate platter; 
sprinkle lightly with salt and send to the table at once. The eggs 
will be more delicate if poached or fried in butter, but many like the 
flavor they acquire by being fried in the ham drippings or gravy. 
After the eggs are removed from the frying-pan, drain off the drip- 
pings, and if you want a gravy, pour a little hot water into the frying- 
pan ; let simmer a minute and pour it over the meat, in which case you 
will serve the eggs by themselves. 

POTTED HAM. 

Cut some slices from the remains of a cold boiled ham; fried or 
broiled ham may also be used ; mince them small and to every two 
pounds of lean meat allow half a pound of fat. Pound the ham, fat 



in tije sierbice 
of tije public 



THERE is only one absolutely 
satisfactory method, by which 
the householder can secure immu- 
nity from imposition, when purchas- 
ing food products. 

^ Buy from a reliable dealer. 

^The name of the Acker, Merrall 
& CoNDiT Company, on a piickage 
or tin, is a guarantee that the con- 
tents are pure and wholesome. 



A MC EH AT 



Cfjc branb represients; puritp, 
boncBt balue anb economy 
in foob probucts; 



The New Lucile Cook. Book. 83 



and lean, in a mortar to a fine paste, gradually adding half a tea- 
spoonful of pounded mace, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, a little all- 
spice, and a very small quantity of nutmeg. Be particular that all the 
ingredients are well mixed and the spices well pounded. Press the 
mixture into tiny jars, filling them to within an inch of top; pour 
over the ham enough clarified butter or drippings to fill the remain- 
ing space and keep in a cool place. Nice for luncheon or tea. 

HAM TIMBALES. 

Beat the eggs; add the cream diluted with the water, the ham, 
crumbs and seasoning; mix thoroughly and turn into buttered tim- 
bale molds. Set in a baking dish on several folds of paper, surround 
with boiling water, and let cook in a moderate oven until firm in the 
centre. To serve, turn from the molds and surround with the 
sauce. Finish with a sprig of parsley in each timbale. This mixture 
may be steamed in a tin holding a little less than a quart. 

Three-fourths a cup of cream, three-fourths a cup of boiling 
water, one cup of cold cooked ham, chopped fine, one-fourth a cup of 
fine, soft bread crumbs, two eggs, one-half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of paprika, cream sauce with peas. 

HAM RELISH. 

One cupful of cold boiled ham, chopped fine, half cupful of cream, 
three hard-boiled eggs, salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the cream. Rub the yolks of two eggs smooth with a little 
of the cream ; add to the cream in the farina boiler with the ham. 
Press the whites of the two eggs through a sieve, add to the mixture, 
and when thoroughly heated put on a hot dish. Slice the remaining 
egg over the ham and serve. 

HAM TOAST. 

One cupful of cold boiled ham, chopped fine, yolk of one egg, half 
cupful of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the cream, add the beaten yolk, stir until it thickens. Add 
the ham, and, when heated, season and serve on toast. 



^4 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



HAM PATTIES. 

One cupful of finely-chopped cooked ham, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth cupful of fine bread crumbs, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
pepper, one tablespoonful of butter, one-fourth cupful of milk. 

Mix the meat with the bread crumbs and seasonings; add the 
butter, melted. Moisten with the milk, and half fill greased patty- 
pans with the mixture. Break one egg carefully on the top of each, 
sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, and cover with fine bread or 
cracker crumbs. Bake eight minutes in a quick oven. Serve at once. 

HAM CANAPES. 

One cupful of chopped boiled ham, two tablespoonfuls of Par- 
mesan cheese, one-fourth cupful of cream, paprika to taste. 

Cut bread into slices one-fourth of an inch thick, and with a 
French cutter into circles. Fry to a delicate brown in smoking-hot 
deep fat. 

Pound the ham to a paste, adding the cream as needed. Season 
with the paprika, or cayenne pepper if preferred. Spread the mixture 
on the fried bread, sprinkle the cheese over the top, and brown in a 
hot oven. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 85 



POULTRY. 

"Even for our kitchens 
We kill the foule of season." 

In choosing chickens take those with yellow legs; the meat will 
be whiter when cooked, and the flavor is also considered superior to 
that of dark-legged ones; you may determine whether the fowl is 
young or not by examining the end of the breast bone, it being in 
young fowls a cartilaginous substance that will bend easily without 
breaking. If it has become bone the fowl is old. Young geese have 
yellow feet lightly tinged with pink, which age deepens to a rather 
bright red. All kinds of fowls should be hung necks downward as 
soon as the head is cut off, that they may bleed. At the end of half 
an hour, scald the fowl, if a chicken — geese and ducks are usually 
picked dry — and roll it in a dry cloth for a few minutes to drain and 
dry a little. Then pluck, singe and draw as quickly as possible, not 
forgetting to remove the oil bag ; wash thoroughly inside and out, but 
do not allow to soak. 

TO TRUSS A FOWL. 

Cut off the legs at the first joint if for roasting; for boiling, cut 
off the claws, dip the legs in boiling water for a few minutes, when 
the skin can be easily scraped off. Cut off the entire neck, having 
drawn back the skin for an inch or two, so that when brought for 
ward, it will cover the end of the bone. Turn the pinions under, run 
a skewer through them and the middle of the legs, which should be 
passed through the body to the pinion and leg on the other side, one 
skewer securing the limbs on both sides. Tie the legs together by 
passing a trussing needle threaded with twine through the backbone 
and securing it on the other side. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

When the chickens are nicely dressed and trussed, season them 
inside with pepper and salt and fill them with a dressing made as fol- 
lows : Cut the crust from three or four slices of stale bread ; butter 
the bread generously and cut it in tiny bits ; fill the body of the fowl 



86 Thh Nrw Lucile Cook Book. 



with the buttered crumbs or any dressing preferred ; place in a drip- 
ping-pan with an ounce of butter and half a cup of water if you do not 
use a roasting rack. Baste often ; allow an hour for baking, if the 
chickens are joung and tender; much more time will be required if 
they are at all old. Serve with giblet gravy made as for roast turkey. 
Pass crab apple jelly with roast chicken. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

When the fowl is ready for cooking, fasten the legs and wings 
to the sides of the body with very small wooden skewers ; put to cook 
in just enough boiling water to cover, to which add a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, a palatable season of salt, and a small piece of red 
pepper pod. Boil until thoroughly well done, then remove to a hot 
platter. Serve with white or oyster sauce. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Clean as usual, and dissect so thoroughly that the carver will have 
nothing for his knife to do in "helping"' the dish. The breast and 
the back should be in two pieces, each, and every joint be separate 
from the next. 

Wash, but do not wipe. Arrange the pieces, dripping wet, in a 
pot, scatter over each layer minced onion, parsley and chopped fat 
pork ; season with salt and pepper. Cover the pot very closely and set 
it where it will not begin to boil under an hour. Increase the heat 
somewhat, but cook slowly throughout. Cook until done! The 
toughest tendons will yield to slow stewing in time. 

When assured that your end is gained, take out the meat with a 
split spoon, heap upon a platter, the white at one end, the dark at the 
other, and keep hot while making the gravy. To do this, pour into 
a bowl, set in iced water to make the fat rise. 

MARYLAND CHICKEN. 

Take a chicken (an old hen well boiled will answer the purpose) 
and make a hash of it, carefully removing all the bones, and shredding 
the flesh into fine particles. Flavor it as you would season ordinary 
chicken hash, with salt, pepper, celery seed and a touch of onion, if 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 87 



you like that seasoning. Stew it thoroughly, and add a large lump of 
butter to make the gravy rich. Then take young, tender corn, cut it 
ofF and make into a batter with a pint of sweet milk, a couple of eggs, 
and a tablespoonful or two of flour to make it cohere well. Make 
it into cakes about the size and shape of a thick batter cake, lay the 
cakes on a large flat dish, and pour the chicken hash over them. You 
may have this dish even in winter, by making the fritters of canned 
corn. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED OR ROASTED FOWLS. 

Cut six slices of stale bread, remove the crust, and put it to soak 
for five minutes in cold water ; then squeeze it as dry as possible in a 
clean napkin. Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan on the 
stove, add a tablespoonful of minced onion and let it simmer a few 
minutes, but do not allow to color; now put in the bread, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped parsley, three of chopped celery, a little pow- 
dered thyme, a very small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pepper and 
salt to taste. When thoroughly heated, remove from the stove, add 
three tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, two well-beaten eggs, and a pint 
of select raw oysters. Stir all well together, and it is ready for use. 
If objectionable, the onion may be omitted. The above is a very nice 
dressing; if a simpler one is desired, the oysters may be omitted, also 
either or all of the ingredients used for flavoring. A very palatable 
and wholesome dressing may be prepared of bread and butter and a 
seasoning of pepper and salt, though I would advise the addition of 
a little chopped celery, previously fried in butter till slightly tinged 
with yellow. Chestnuts are a nice addition to a stuffing for turkeys; 
let them stand a few minutes in hot water, then remove the skins, 
boil in strongly salted water until tender, chop and add to the dress- 
ing. Both Irish and sweet potatoes, boiled, mashed and seasoned, are 
used for stuffing turkeys. 

FRIED CHICKEN WITH CREAM GRAVY. 

(A Maryland dish.) 

After dishing the chicken cooked as in foregoing recipe, strain the 
fat again, stir in a lump of butter rolled in flour that has been slightly 
browned, and, when it bubbles, a small cup of hot cream or milk to 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



which a pinch of soda has been added. Stir for two minutes to pre- 
vent scorching, add a tablespoonful of minced parsley and pour over 
the chicken. 

To roast spring chickens is to spoil 'em — 
Just split 'em down the back and broil 'em. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Use none but undeniably young chickens for broiling. Clean well 
and split down the back. Lay for an hour in a marinade of salad oil 
and lemon juice, if there is any doubt on this point. 

If certain of your subject, wash over with butter and lay upon 
a greased and heated gridiron, breast uppermost. The fire should 
be red and strong. Broil about ten minutes to the pound, lifting 
when it begins to drip and turning four times to insure thorough 
cooking. When dished it should be sprinkled with pepper and salt, 
and well buttered. 

CHICKEN A LA TERRAPIN. 

One pint of -finely-chopped cooked chicken, three hard-boiled eggs, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of flour, three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one cupful of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, stir until blended ; add the chicken 
and the cream. Stand over hot water or in the farina boiler, and 
when the mixture is thoroughly heated add the yolks of the eggs put 
through a press and rubbed smooth with a little of the cream. Add 
the whites chopped fine, and let the mixture 'come to boiling point. 
Season and serve. 

TIMBALES OF CHICKEN. 

Half cupful of cream, whites of four eggs, one tablespoonful of 
finely-chopped truffles, two cupfuls of the cooked white meat of the 
chicken, salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the meat very fine, and pound it to a smooth paste, adding 
the cream gradually. When well mixed, season and add the truflHes. 
Then add, one at a time, the unbeaten whites of two of the eggs, mix- 
ing the first with the paste until it has disappeared, before adding the 
second. Beat the remaining whites to a stiff, dry froth and stir them 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 89 



carefully into the mixture. Fill greased timbale molds half full of 
the chicken paste, place them in a pan of hot water (the water should 
come up as far on the outside of the tins as the paste fills the inside). 
Bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes, the time 
depending upon the size of the molds. If a single large mold is used 
the timbale will have to bake as long as thirty-five or forty minutes. 
Serve hot with a cream mushroom sauce. 

CHICKEN OKRA, COCOANUT. 

Half a fowl from which the bones have been removed, one small 
carrot, one white turnip and one onion, half a green pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of raw rice, three quarts of hot water, four small peeled 
red tomatoes and twelve good-sized fresh okras. Cut the fowl into 
small square pieces. Also cut the carrot, turnip, onion and green 
pepper into half-inch square pieces. Place all in a saucepan with one 
tablespoonful of butter and slowly brown for ten minutes, lightly 
stirring once in a while. Then add the rice and any raw chicken 
bones on hand. Lightly mix and moisten with the hot water. Season 
with a level tablespoonful of salt, cover the pan and allow to boil for 
thirty minutes. Cut the tomatoes and okras into small pieces and add 
them to the soup, then boil for thirty minutes more. Remove the 
bones. Now add the milk and the shredded meat of a medium-sized 
cocoanut. Mix well, let boil for ten minutes more and serve. 

CREAMED CHICKEN WITH CURRY OF RICE. 

Melt one-fourth a cup of butter; cook in it one-fourth a cup of 
flour and half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika. When cooked 
a little, gradually stir in one cup of cream, diluted with one cup of 
water. Let cook, stirring constantly until the mixture boils, then add 
a pint, well pressed down, of chicken meat cut in small cubes. Let 
stand over hot water to become very hot. Cook an onion cut in halves 
in three tablespoonfuls of curry powder, and when blended with the 
butter, gradually stir in half a cup of cream and one cup of water. 
Have ready half a cup of rice, heated to the boiling point in a quart 
of cold water, drained and rinsed ; add this to the cream and curry 
mixture with a teaspoonful of salt; let cook, over hot water, or on 
asbestos mat, until the rice is tender and the liquid absorbed. Remove 



QO The New Lucile Cook Book. 



the onion, add a tablespoonful of butter and a dash of pepper and dis- 
pose on a serving dish as a border; turn the creamed chicken into 
the centre of the dish. 

BOILED CHICKEN STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

Prepare as usual for boiling or roasting, then fill body and craw 
with small oysters, which have been dipped in peppered and salted 
melted butter. Sew up in netting and boil twenty minutes to the 
pound if young, thirty minutes if old. Unwrap, wash over with but- 
ter and lemon juice ; pour a few spoonfuls of oyster sauce upon them, 
the rest into a boat. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

This looks like a lot of bother, but it is worth it. Select a yellow 
Philadelphia fowl weighing four or five pounds ; clean carefully, singe 
and put it on in boiling water enough to cover it, and let it simmer 
gently until it begins to grow tender. Save this broth with the giblets. 
Now cut the chicken in small pieces ; slice a quarter of a pound of fat 
pork very thin and fry it with the chicken until it is brown. After 
the chicken and pork are fried take them up and stir into the pan in 
which they were cooked a tablespoon of flour; stir it over the fire until 
brown ; then add a pint of chicken broth, a teaspoon of salt, quarter 
of a saltspoon of pepper. Stir this gravy until it has boiled two min- 
utes and use it for the pie. 

To make the crust: Mix together in a bowl with a knife one 
pound of flour, one teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of butter and 
just enough cold water to hold it together. Roll it out about an inch 
thick ; cut a quarter of a pound of butter in large slices and lay it all 
over the paste; fold it and wrap in a floured towel and put in the 
icebox for half an hour. Roll it out, repeating same with another 
quarter pound of butter; roll it to a thickness of half an inch, fold it 
in three thicknesses and roll it out again. If the butter breaks through 
fold it again in a towel and cool for half an hour before using. Line 
a deep dish ; then put in alternate laj^ers of chicken. 

POT-PIE. 

The following receipt is good for any sort of pot-pie. They are 
all on the same principle. The meat is divested of the fat, and stewed 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 91 



first in a pot by itself, saving the gravy. The paste (of vi'hich there 
should always be an ample allowance) sufficient to line the sides of 
the pot all around, and reaching up nearly to the top, besides plenty 
of small square pieces to intersperse with the meat, and an upper crust 
to cover the whole. At the very bottom the meat and gravy only, as 
there the paste might burn. Pot-pies may be made of any sort of 
fresh meat, or of fowls, or any sort of poultry (cut up, as if for carv- 
ing), and previously stewed. If made of chickens, or pigeons, or 
rabbits, add a few slices of cold salt pork, and put in no other salt. 
For want of suet make the paste with butter, but it must be fresh and 
good. Allow a quarter of a pound of butter, and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, to a large quart of flour. 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 

Remove the skin from the white meat of a cold boiled or roast 
fowl; chop fine, and to every teacupful of the meat, allow a table- 
spoonful of cold boiled or baked ham, finely minced. Put these in a 
saucepan on the stove, add a gill of cold gravy, if you have it, or the 
same quantity of hot water, a quarter of a teaspoonful of grated lemon- 
peel, a little mace or nutmeg, and salt and white and cayenne pepper 
to taste. When hot add a tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in a 
like quantity of butter; let simmer a few minutes; remove from the 
fire, and add four tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. Line some patty- 
pans with puff-paste, rub the edge of the crust with melted butter to 
prevent the cover from sticking, put a piece of bread in each patty- 
pan, put on the top crust — roll thin, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done remove the top, take out the bread, fill with the prepared chicken, 
return to the oven for a moment, and serve. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One cold boiled chicken chopped fine; then take a pint of sweet 
milk, and when the milk is boiled stir into it two large tablespoonfuls 
of flour, made thin in a little cold milk ; after the flour is well cooked 
with the milk, put in a piece of butter the size of an egg ; add salt and 
cayenne pepper ; stir all well into the chicken ; roll up with your hand, 
and dip first into an egg beaten up, then into crackers rolled fine, and 
fry in hot tallow (fresh tallow, half and half lard, is very nice). 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 93 



CURRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut in thin slices two large onions ; peel, core and chop one apple ; 
fry these in two ounces of butter until a nice brown; then add one 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, one teaspoonful of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, half a pint of gravy, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Cut the meat from the remains of a cold roast fowl in neat slices ; add 
to the gravy and allow to simmer for fifteen minutes. Add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and serve with a border of boiled rice. 

CHICKEN WIGGLE. 

A cupful of chicken cut into dice is needed, and a cupful of canned 
corn or peas, free of liquid, is also necessary. Make a generous cream 
sauce, using three tablespoonfuls of flour and of butter, with a cup 
and a half of milk. The butter is melted in the chafing-dish, the 
flour and seasoning of salt and pepper added, then the milk and finally 
the chicken and vegetables. If it is desired to serve a number of per- 
sons, four eggs may be boiled hard and cut lengthwise into quarters, 
two cupfuls of milk being used for the sauce, with a slight increase in 
the quantity of flour for thickening. Better than "black or white 
pepper is a little paprika, or, by way of variety, occasionally use curry 
powder. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Cut the meat from the bones of a cold roast fowl; remove the 
gristle and skin, and to every pound of meat allow one-fourth pound 
of butter; salt and cayenne to taste, and a very small quantity of 
grated nutmeg or mace. A little boiled ham or tongue will improve 
the flavor. Cut the meat in small pieces, and pound it in a mortar 
with the butter until a smooth paste, adding very gradually the sea- 
soning. Pack in small jars to within an inch of the top ; fill the re- 
maining space with clarified drippings, taking care that the drippings 
adhere to the sides of the jar, and thus effectually exclude the air. Nice 
for luncheon and tea, also excellent for sandwiches. The remains of 
almost any cold meat, poultry or fish may be potted, if freed from 
gravies and everything that could interfere with the keeping qualities. 
In winter they will keep a long time, but in summer they must be 
eaten sooner. 



94 The New Lucile Cook Hook. 



JELLIED CHICKEN. 

By exercising a little forethought when preparing chicken for 
roasting, you may secure a delicious dish of jellied chicken without at 
all interfering with your roast. For this purpose save the neck, giblets 
and feet; if the latter are allowed to stand in scalding water a few 
minutes the skin can be easily removed ; take off also the nails. As 
the feet are very rich in jelly, they are an important factor in the dish 
we are preparing. Cut the meat from the remains of your roast fowls 
in neat pieces, removing all skin and gristle. Break the bones and 
put them in the saucepan on the stove with the feet and other giblets ; 
add a quart of water and simmer two hours; skim if necessary. It 
should be moist as you can work it ; make in little rolls two or three 
inches long and an inch in diameter; handle carefully tha^ they may 
not break apart; dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker dust and fry in 
hot drippings until a nice brown ; two minutes will be long enough 
to fry them. A teacupful of boiled rice may be used instead of the 
bread. 

CHOP SUEY. 

(A Chinese recipe.) 

One-half chicken (or quarter chicken and as much fresh pork, or 
j'ou can make it all pork, but chicken is much better), one large onion, 
a handful of mushrooms, a stalk of celery, six Chinese potatoes, a bowl 
of rice, a small dessert dish of Chinese sauce (which answers for salt). 

When the chicken is cleaned scrape the meat from the bones and 
cut into strips about one and a half inches long and one-half inch wide. 
If pork is used, cut the strips the same length. Slice the onions thin; 
soak the mushrooms ten minutes in water, then remove the stems; 
cut the celery into pieces one and a half inches long. Chinese potatoes 
require no cooking; simply wash and slice. 

First put chicken (or chicken and pork, or pork) into a frying- 
pan with fat and fry until done, but not brown or hard. Then add 
the sliced onions and cook a little. Add mushrooms. Now pour 
enough sauce over the ingredients to make them brown. Then add 
some water and stew a few minutes. Add celery, and after a minute 
add the potatoes. Finally, add a little floured water to it, making 
gravy of the water which stewed it. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 95 

The Chinese potatoes, mushrooms and Chinese sauce can be pro- 
cured at any Chinese grocery. If the rice is not cooked properly it 
will detract greatly from the good taste of the chop suey. Otherwise 
it is a very palatable dish. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Clean, wash and wipe dry. Rub with salt inside. Fill with 
dressing made of bread crumbs soaked in cold water and squeezed out 
as dry as possible, and seasoned with butter, pepper, salt and sage to 
taste (or any other dressing preferred), then sew up and truss. Put 
in the roasting-pan with water and a large piece of butter, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, a few bits of butter, or what is better, a few very 
thin slices of fat, salt pork. Baste often until nearly done. Chop the 
giblets fine and cook in a small saucepan on the stove until tender; 
when the fowl is done, add them to the gravy, which thicken with 
wetted flour. Bake the fowl until tender and a rich brown. 

A turkey must be young to be tender when roasted. An old one 
is better boiled or steamed. The same may be said of chickens. A 
goose should be parboiled before roasting. Domestic ducks require 
more cooking than wild ducks or other game. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a plump turkey, and when it has been carefully prepared, 
picked, singed, drawn, washed, wiped and trussed, season inside with 
pepper and salt, and stuff with any dressing or force-meat preferred ; 
sew up the opening with strong, not coarse, thread. Put the fowl into 
.1 baking-pan with two or three ounces of butter and roast in a hot 
oven until well done, basting frequently (I had almost said con- 
stantly), first with the butter and then with the drippings. Do not 
forget that the basting is an important part of the process of baking 
all kinds of meats, especially that of fowls; if this is neglected the 
meat will be dry and hard, instead of tender and juicy. Allow at least 
five hours for baking a large turkey and keep the oven hot from the 
moment the fowl is put into it until it comes out brown, tender and 
toothsome. Boil the giblets and neck in a pint of water until tender, 
then mash the liver and chop the gizzard as fine as possible and add 
them to the gravy, which make as follows : When you take the turkey 
from the baking-pan, pour off the drippings, set the pan on the top of 



96 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



the stove ; add the water in which the giblets were cooked — there 
should be at least two-thirds of a pint — rub the glaze from the bottom 
of the pan with the back of a spoon ; let boil up and add the prepared 
giblets, thicken with browned flour; season with pepper and salt, send 
to the table in a gravy tureen. Serve cranberry sauce or jelly, currant 
jelly or spiced currants, with roast or baked turkey. 

Boiled turkey, gourmands know, of course, 
Is exquisite with celery sauce. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Prepare as for roasting, with or without dressing, as you prefer; 
let the fowl be very firmly trussed and tied in position ; put it into just 
sufficient boiling water to cover it, add plenty of pepper and salt and 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice; boil very slowly until tender, turning 
once or twice, particularly if the water does not cover the fowl. The 
length of time required will depend upon the age of the turkey. When 
the breast and thigh can be easily pierced with a fork it is nearly done ; 
but do not remove from the kettle until it is very tender. Serve with 
oyster, parsley or cauliflower sauce, using some of the liquor in which 
the turkey was boiled for preparing it. Reserve the giblets and the 
remainder of the boiling liquor for soup. 

OYSTER STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 

Make a stuffing for turkey in the ordinary way of dried bread 
crumbs seasoned with parsley, thyme and sweet marjoram, and moist- 
ened with melted butter. To this add twenty small oysters chopped 
fine, and with this stuff the breast of the turkey. 

Or to the ordinary seasoned bread-stuffing for a turkey add two 
dozen small oysters, moisten the crumbs slightly with the oyster liquor, 
and fill the breast of the turkey with the mixture. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 

Boil one quart of the large French or Italian chestnuts, shell and 
peel them. Mash smooth and rub into them two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and salt and white pepper to taste. Stuff the turkey with this 
as you would any other kind of dressing. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 97 



FILLETS OF TURKEY WITH RICE. 

Skin the breast of a plump turkey, and slice away the breast. Use 
a sharp knife and hold it almost horizontal while at work. The slices 
should be nearly half an inch thick, and as nearly uniform in size as 
possible. Dip in beaten egg, then in salted and peppered cracker 
crumbs; again in the egg, and once more in the crumbs. Set on the 
ice while you cook the rice. 

Put one cupful of clear chicken or turkey stock into a saucepan; 
add a cupful of rice, one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, and the same 
of salt, and simmer slowly until the liquid is absorbed. When the 
rice is tender add two tablespoonfuls of butter; one tablespoonful of 
grated cheese, and season to taste. Cover and let it stand at the side 
of the fire until the fillets are ready. Heat five or six spoonfuls of 
pure salad oil slowly in a frying-pan, and when it boils, cook the fillets 
in it to a nice brown. Mound the savory rice in the centre of a hot 
dish and lay the fillets about it. 

When properly made this is an elegant entree. 

RISSOLES. 

Chop fine the remains of cold baked or boiled turkey, having first 
removed the skin and gristle ; put it in a saucepan on the stove with 
an ounce or two of butter and a half a teacupful of finely-chopped cold 
boiled ham or tongue for every teacupful of the hashed turkey ; add a 
slice of bread soaked in cold water until moist, and then squeeze dry. 
Season with white neoper, salt, parsley, grated lemon-peel and nut- 
meg. When thoroughly heated remove from the fire and add half a 
teacupful of sweet cream and two well-beaten eggs; mix thoroughly. 
Have ready some puff-paste — the trimmings from pies and tarts will 
do — roll thin and cut in circular pieces with a tumbler or tin cutter. 
Put a tablespoonful of the meat on one-half of each piece, fold the 
other half over, pinch the edges together and fry a nice brown in hot 
drippings. • 

GRILLED TURKEY. 

The drumsticks of a cold turkey are the parts usually served in 
this way, but other pieces may be used for this purpose. Score the 
meat deep and dip it in a dressing prepared as follows: A little more 



98 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



than half a tablespoonful of sharp vinegar, one tablespoonful of any- 
kind of catsup, a small teaspoonful of mustard, a little cayenne and a 
tablespoonful of salad oil or melted butter. Stir and beat these in- 
gredients thoroughly; dip the meat into the dressing, taking care that 
it has a good coating of it. Have the gridiron hot, rub it over with a 
piece of suet, lay the meat on it and broil over a clear fire, turning 
often, until nicely browned. Remove to a hot platter, put some bits 
of maitre d'hotel butter on the meat, set in the oven a moment, and 
serve. The legs of cold boiled or baked chicken, or pieces of rare mut- 
ton, or beef, may be served in this way. 

TURKEY GELATINE OR BONED TURKEY. 

Dress without cutting the skin on the breast; remove the neck, 
wings and legs ; cut the fowl in two down the back ; now begin at the 
edge and cut the meat from the bones as closely as possible, keeping the 
skin whole. Cut the breast or fillets from the bone without breaking 
the skin. When you have removed the bone from both sides of the 
fowl, spread the skin with what meat adheres to it on a clean meat 
board. Prepare a force-meat of two pounds of veal, a quarter of a 
pound of cooked fat pork or bacon, and the meat from the leg of the 
fowl; chop fine, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon- 
peel and chopped parsley. Put a layer of this force-meat on the inside 
(which has been placed uppermost) of the turkey skin; on this put a 
layer of the fillet cut in inch-square pieces and season with pepper and 
salt; now add a layer of dressed oysters, those from which the 
stomachs, or dark portions, have been removed ; also season with 
pepper and salt, then another layer of force-meat. Roll up the turkey, 
sew it in shape with a darning needle and a strong thread ; tie it in a 
piece of clean netting and put it into a clean saucepan and with 
enough hot water to cover it; add the turkey bones, broken, a small 
onion stock with three or four cloves, two or three carrots, half a 
dozen celery stocks, and a small piece of red pepper. Remove the 
scum as it rises; boil very slowly four hours; then remove from the 
fire and let stand until nearly cold ; take from the saucepan, tighten 
the cloth, and put a light weight on it until cold and solid. Strain the 
liquor in the saucepan and clarify after directions given for clarifying 
soups and stock. Return to the fire, add a glass of sherry or a squeeze 
of lemon juce; boil, until when cold it will be a stiff jelly; test by 
cooling a little on the ice or a cold plate. Take the cloth from the 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 99 



gelatine, put it into a deep dish and pour the jelly while yet warm over 
it. Send to the table enveloped with the jelly; slice when serving. 
Gelatines will keep in winter a week or two, and are a very con- 
venient dish for luncheon or tea. Thev are an elegant form of cold 
meat often served at parties, the fact that they may be prepared sev- 
eral days before they are wanted being a not unimportant consider- 
ation. Chicken gelatines may be prepared in the same way. 

TURKEY ON TOAST. 

Take the remains of yesterday's turkey and remove all the meat 
from the bones; chop rat-hpr fine; put two ounces of butter into a 
saucepan on the stove, add, if liked, a teaspoonful of minced shallot or 
cnion, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; then simmer until the 
onion is slightly colored, then put half a teacupful of hot water, or 
better still, cold gravy, into the saucepan ; when it is hot, add the meat, 
Avhich season with pepper and salt. Toast five or six small slices of 
bread, or a piece for each person to be served, remove the crust, ar- 
range on a hot platter, heap the hashed turkey on the toast, and serve. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Draw and clean, washing the inside in three waters, the second 
having a teaspoonful of baking-soda mixed with it. 

Plunge into ice-cold water; leave them there for fifteen minutes; 
wipe well inside and out, and stuff with a force-meat of dry crumbs 
seasoned with salt, pepper, onion juice and finely minced parsley. 

Personally, I do not like sage in the stuffing. It gives a "medi- 
cated tang," to my way of thinking — or tasting. Many people, how- 
ever, insist upon adding the venerable simple to the force-meat. Do 
not moisten the stuffing. Put it in dry, packing well. Dredge the 
ducks with peppered and salted flour; lay upon the grating of your 
roaster, pour a cupful of boiling water over them, and roast, covered, 
from twelve to fifteen minutes to the pound, according to age. Baste 
four times with the gravy from the dripping-pan. Uncover, wash 
with butter, dredge with flour and brown. 

To make the gravy, drain oliF the liquor from the pan; set in ice 
water to throw up the grease, strain, add the giblets minced very fine, 
thicken with browned flour, and boil for two minutes. Serve with 
currant jelly, or apple sauce, and pass green peas with them. 



lOO The New Lucile Cook Book. 

CREOLE SALMI OF DUCK. 

Melt in a saucepan two tablespoon fuls of butter, and stir into this 
a half tablespoonful, each, of chopped ham, onion, celery, sweet pepper 
and parsley, with a tablespoonful of flour, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt, and a half teaspoonful of paprika. Stir for three minutes, then 
add a cupful of consomme, two cloves and a blade of mace. Simmer 
for an hour; strain and add to it two cupfuls of cold duck, cut into 
neat pieces an inch long. Boil one minute to heat the meat thoroughly, 
and serve. 

Garnish with sippets of fried bread. . 

STEWED DUCK. 

Cut the duck in suitable pieces. Put two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan, in which fry one finely-chopped onion and three or four 
sprigs of parsley ; add the duck and allow to brown ; then add suffi- 
cient hot water to cover, two cloves, one sage leaf, dried and pow- 
dered, and pepper and salt. Cover closely and allow to simmer until 
tender; keep the same quantity of water in the saucepan by adding 
more as it boils away. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, add a 
squeeze of lemon juice and serve. Garnish with croutons. 

BRAISED DUCKS. 

Young ducks are essential for this purpose. Lay three slices of 
fat corned ham upon the grating of your roaster, and upon them a 
minced onion, a stalk of celery, chopped, a sliced carrot and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Clean and truss, but do not stufif the 
ducks; lay them upon the prepared "bed," and pour a cupful of boiling 
water over them. Cover the pan and let them cook, closely covered, 
in a moderate oven for about two hours. Take up the ducks, strain 
the liquor from the pan, and let it cool enough to remove all the fat. 
Then put it into a saucepan, and let it boil. Add one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, and thicken it slightly with browned flour. Return the 
fowls to the sauce till hot again, then serve with the sauce poured over 
them. 

FILLETS OF DUCK. 

Remove the breasts whole; if too thick, cut them in two length- 
wise; dip in melted butter and broil over a clear fire, turning often 



The New Lucile Cook Book. lOl 



until well done and nicely browned. When done, dust with white 
pepper and salt, and serve on buttered toast. The remainder of the 
duck can be stewed or fricasseed. 

GEESE. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Draw, clean, singe and truss as you would prepare a turkey. 
Always put onion and a suspicion of sage in the stuffing. Lay upon 
the grating of your roaster ; pour a cup of boiling water over him to 
cicatrice the skin and keep in the juices, and roast, covered, twenty 
minutes to the pound if of reasonable age. If of unreasonable, cook 
slowly, basting often with the liquor in the dripping-pan, at least half 
an hour for each obdurate pound. A goose is a most uncertain 
quantity. 

At the last, wash with butter, pepper and salt him, and dredge 
with flour, then brown. Drain off and skim the fat from the gravy 
before you season the goose. Goose-grease is valuable in the domestic 
pharmacopoeia, but neither palatable nor wholesome. 

Thicken the gravy with browned flour, add the giblets minced 
very fine, boil up and it is ready. 

Serve apple sauce with him. 

TO COOK A GREEN GOOSE. 

Geese are called green until they are about four months old, and 
should not be stuffed. After they have been properly dressed, truss 
them after directions given for roast goose, then put into the body a 
seasoning of pepper and salt and butter enough to moisten the inside. 
Roast in a hot oven, basting constantly until well done and nicely 
browed. Garnish with water-cresses. 

BRAISED GOSLINGS. 

Clean and truss without stuffing. Prepare a bed for them by 
slicing a carrot, an onion, a turnip (all younglings, like the birds) , also 
a pared apple, and cutting a stalk of celery into bits. With these 
cover the grating of your roaster; lay the birds upon them, dredge 
with salt, pepper and a little powdered sage, when you have poured a 



Idi The New Lucile Cook Book. 



little boiling water over them from the kettle. Cover, and roast 
slowly fifteen minutes to the pound. Wash with butter, dredge with 
flour and brown. 

Take the goslings up and keep hot while you make the gravy. Rub 
vegetables and liquor through a colander into a bowl. Set this in cold 
water to throw up the grease. Skim, thicken with browned flour, 
adding two teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup, boil up and serve. 

Serve apple sauce and green peas, or Lima beans, with the goslings, 
which are most eatable when half-grown. 

HASHED GOOSE. 

Cut up the remains of cold roast goose into pieces of convenient 
size; the inferior joints and trimmings put into a stew-pan to make 
the gravy. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan on the stove; 
slice two small onions and fry them in butter until a very pale yellow ; 
add these to the trimmings, pour over them about a pint of boiling 
water; stew these gently for three- fourths of an hour, then skim and 
strain the liquor. Thicken with browned flour, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of port wine and the same quantity of any kind of catsup ; add a 
seasoning of pepper and salt and put in the pieces of goose ; let these 
f^et thoroughly hot but do not allow to boil. Garnish the dish with 
iTOutons. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 103 



GAME. 

Use fresh game ; avoid stale or ripened game, as dealers call it. 

Venison can be used within a few hours after being brought in, 
or as soon as it becomes perfectly cold. Those who have never had 
the pleasure of eating fresh venison do not know how excellent it 
really is. 

The smaller animals, such as rabbits and squirrels, should be put 
into slightly salted water for a short time before cooking. 

All game birds should be plucked or skinned, and drawn as soon 
as possible after being killed, that the meat may not become tainted by 
the contents of the intestines. 

A bird to be properly plucked should have every pin feather re- 
moved ; singe by holding over a blazing paper, over the open stove, or 
by setting fire to a tablespoonful of alcohol on a plate, holding the 
bird over it ; then draw, cut off the head and feet, and be sure to cut 
out the oil bag from the tail, and see that every particle of the wind- 
pipe is removed. The giblets are the liver, heart and gizzard. 

Cut the gall-bag carefully from the liver. 

Cut the heart partly open or press it between the thumb and 
finger, that no blood may remain. Wash all parts carefully in clear, 
cold water. Do not parboil game, nor use too many spices in season- 
ing it — its peculiar flavor should be preserved. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR GAME. 

Prepare a pint of sifted bread crumbs ; put two-thirds of a pint of 
milk in a saucepan on the stove; add a scant teaspoonful of grated 
onion ; season with cayenne pepper, salt, a little nutmeg or mace ; let 
boil five minutes very slowly, add half the bread crumbs. Fry the re- 
mainder in an ounce of butter until quite dry and a golden brown. 
After the game is dished, sift the fried bread crumbs evenly over it, 
and pass the white sauce, or put a tablespoonful on each plate. 

In venison gravy, currant jelly 
Mix with old'port — see Francatelli. 

SADDLE OF VENISON. 

This is the cut of venison par excellence, and should always be 
roasted either before the open fire, or in a hot oven. Lard the meat 



104 The New Lucile Cook. Book. 

thickly with fat pork or bacon, and sprinkle with salt; place in a 
baking-pan with a cup of water and two ounces of butter ; baste often 
enough so that the meat shall not once become dry. Bake one hour for 
every three pounds; prepare the gravy in the roasting-pan, as for other 
baked and roasted meat ; add three or four tablespoonfuls of currant 
jelly to the gravy, and put a mold of currant jelly on the table to 
be served with the venison. 

BAKED HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Trim in good shape, and wipe first with a wet cloth, and then 
with a dry one; brush it over with melted butter, and put it into a 
baking-pan with a cup of hot water, and two or three ounces of 
butter; bake in a hot oven, baste continually until done, which will 
require at least five hours, if the haunch is a large one. Remove to 
a hot platter ; put the baking-pan on the top of the range, add a cup 
of hot water, a seasoning of cayenne and salt, half a teacupful of cur- 
rant jelly, a glass of port wine or sherry, and a little grated nutmeg; 
thicken with browned flour, and serve. A very nice plain gravy may 
be made without either wine or jelly. The above is the simplest way 
of preparing this roast. It will be more savory and juicy if covered, 
while baking, with a paste made of flour and water ; remove the paste 
half an hour before the meat is taken from the oven to allow it to 
brown. Baste with hot water until the crust is removed, and then 
add wine and butter. 

VENISON STEAK. 

Cut the steaks three-fourths of an inch thick, and trim them as 
5'ou would beefsteak; place on a buttered gridiron and broil over a 
clear fire, turning often until well done — they should not be served 
at all rare. Remove to a hot platter; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and bits of butter; set in the oven a moment, and serve. Some cooks 
put a tablespoonful or two of melted currant jelly on the steaks; but 
the flavor of broiled venison is so delicious, that I dislike to recom- 
mend anything but a dressing of pepper, salt and butter for this de- 
lectable dish. 

VENISON CHOPS. 

Dip the chops in melted butter, and broil over a clear fire, turning 
the broiler often, so that every portion of the meat may be thoroughly 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 105 



cooked. Season with pepper and salt. Have ready in a saucepan the 
following: A cupful of hot water, a tablespoonful of currant jelly, 
half a dozen peppercorns, two cloves; heat well together until the 
jelly is dissolved, then place the chops in the saucepan for five min- 
utes, and remove to a hot platter, with the sauce poured over them. 

STEWED VENISON. 

The neck and shoulder pieces of venison make very savory stews. 
If a shoulder of venison is to be stewed, remove the bone through the 
under side and fill the space made of bread crumbs seasoned with but- 
ter, cayenne, salt and sherry or port wine ; a slice of fat mutton finely 
minced, will be an improvement to the dressing. Bind the shoulder 
in shape with strips of tape or white cloth. Put to cook in a stew-pan 
with enough stock — made from the trimmings — or hot water to cover 
it; add salt and cayenne, and if liked, a glass of wine; allow to sim- 
mer until very tender. Remove the bands, and dish ; strain the gravy, 
thicken with browned flour, and add butter if necessary. Send to the 
table in a gravy tureen. If desired the shoulder may be browned in 
the oven after it is removed from the stew-pan. 

VENISON PIE. 

Cut the venison into strips two inches long, and an inch wide. 
Put into a stew-pan with sufficient hot water to cover ; add pepper, salt, 
lialf a dozen whole allspice, two cloves, and a glass of port wine ; re- 
move the scum and allow to boil very slowly until tender ; as the water 
boils away, replenish so as to keep the original quantity, thicken the 
gravy with two or three tablespoonfuls of browned flour rubbed 
smooth in the same quantity of butter. Put the fricassee into a baking 
dish, cover with a puff-paste, brush over with beaten egg, and bake. 
If the crust browns too quickly, cover it with a piece of buttered 
paper. 

VENISON HAM. 

Dried venison is a rare delicacy; the ham is the part generally 
used for drying; prepare as follows: Trim the ham in good shape; rub 
over with a mixture of sugar and salt in equal parts ; repeat the pro- 
cess every other day for eight or ten days; then dust over while moist. 



FADS 

FREAKS 

FLASHES 

AND FANCIES 



HAVE THEIR BRIEF DAY 
THEN FALL BY THE WAY BUT 




HUNTER 

BALTIMORE RYE 



WAS FIRMLY FOUNDED ON THE ROCK OF 
REPUTATION AND PUBLIC FAVOR MORE 
THAN FIFTY YEARS AGO AND IS TO-DAY 
THE MOST POPULAR WHISKEY ON THE 
AMERICAN CONTINENT 



So'd at all firstclafs cafes and by jobbers. 
WM. LANAHAN & SON, Haliuuore, Md. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 107 



with clean, sweet, wheat bran, and smoke or dry as preferred. It is 
more wholesome, and to most tastes more palatable, if dried without 
the flavor of smoke. Two ounces of saltpetre rolled fine and added 
to the sugar and salt will improve the color of the venison. Serve 
raw and in very thin pieces, cut across the grain. Dried venison may 
be prepared after either of the recipes given for dried beef. 

ROAST WILD TURKEY. 

Pluck, draw, wash thoroughly; lay in salted cold water for half 
an hour; rinse in cold water, wipe dry, rub inside with salt, fill with 
a dressing of moistened bread crumbs, seasoned with butter, pepper, 
salt, and a little sage (or any other dressing preferred), and sew up 
the opening. Some like the flavor a small onion chopped fine gives to 
the dressing. Place the turkey on its back in the roasting-pan, with 
a cupful of hot water and a generous lump of butter. Lay a few slices, 
cut very thin, of salt fat pork on the breast to season it while cooking. 
Cut the rind from the pork. Sprinkle the bird with a little salt. Baste 
frequently from the water in the pan until nearly done, or the meat 
will be dry. From an hour and a half to two hours will be required. 
Cook the giblets in a saucepan, chop fine, and have ready to add to the 
gravy after the turkey has been taken from the pan. Add more hot 
water to the pan as it may be needed. When done place the turkey 
on a hot platter, which garnish with water-cresses or parsley. A row 
of fried oysters may be placed around the platter next to the turkey. 
Thicken the gravy with flour and water, season with more butter, 
taste to see if salt enough, and, after adding the chopped giblets, send 
to the table in a sauce-boat. 

ROAST WILD GOOSE. 

Remove the feathers; dry, singe, draw, wash, lay in salted cold 
water for half an hour, rinse in cold water, wipe dry, rub inside with 
salt and fill with a dressing of moistened bread crumbs, butter, pepper, 
salt, a small onion and a small apple, both chopped fine, and a little 
sfge. Sew up the opening, place the goose on its back in the roasting- 
pan with a cupful of hot water and a piece of butter. Sprinkle with 
salt and place a few thin slices of fat salt pork on the breast to season 
it while cooking. Baste from the roasting-pan frequently during the 
first hour, adding water when necessary. By using a fork carefully it 



io8 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



can be ascertained when the meat becomes tender. When done, place 
on a hot platter, and garnish with parsleJ^ Drain the fat from the pan, 
add a cupful of hot water to the glaze, also a bit of butter, pepper and 
salt. Thicken a little with browned flour, strain, and send to the 
table in a sauce-boat. Serve the goose with the traditional stewed 
apple. 

ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Pluck, singe, draw, wash and lay in salt water for twenty min- 
utes; rinse in cold water; wipe dry; season inside and out with pepper 
and salt; place in the roasting-pan, in which put a cup of hot water 
and a generous lump of butter, with which baste frequently. Have 
the oven hot ; cook about thirty minutes. Do not fail to serve the bird 
hot, or it is better not to serve at all. Use the above rule in cooking 
duck for those fond of it served rare, especially hunters, whose daily 
bill of fare during their hunting excursions include game. 

For a home party, little accustomed to or not particularly fond of 
game, use the following rule : Prepare the duck as above, and fill with 
a dressing of moistened bread crumbs, seasoned with butter, salt, pep- 
per and sage (or any dressing preferred). Sew up the opening; place 
the duck on its back in the roasting-pan, in which should be a teacup- 
ful of hot water and a large lump of butter. Add water to the pan 
as required, for the flavor of the duck will be injured if allowed to 
scorch. Cover the breast of the duck with thin slices of fat salt pork 
(from which the rind has been removed) to season it, and in cooking 
it will shrivel and almost disappear. Be sure to baste frequently from 
the pan, until nearly done. The duck should be of a rich brown color, 
and very tender when done. The giblets should be cooked in a sauce- 
pan by themselves, chopped fine, and added to the gravy. Add a tea- 
cupful of water to the pan after the ducks are removed to the platter. 
Thicken the gravy with a little flour and send to the table in a sauce- 
boat. The oven should be hot and the ducks cooked from an hour to 
an hour and a half. 

HASHED WILD DUCK. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of stock, one tablespoonful 
mushroom catsup, one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, one-fourth cupful of port wine, one cupful of finely- 
chopped cooked duck, pepper and salt. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 109 



Melt and brown the butter, add the flour, stir until browned. 
Add the stock and duck. Cook until thoroughly heated, then put in a 
farina boiler. Five minutes before the hash is to be served add the 
parsley, catsup and wine. Let stand only until heated and serve on 
toast or with croutons. 

ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Select plump birds, pick and clean as you would chickens, washing 
them out quickly in cold water. To allow them to lie in the water 
injures their flavor. Tie the legs and wings closely to the sides and 
put the birds in a covered roaster with a cup of water under them. 
Rub with butter, dredge with flour and cook for half an hour. Now 
remove the cover of the roaster and baste the birds plentifully with 
melted butter. Replace the cover, cook for fifteen minutes longer, un- 
cover and brown. 

BROILED QUAILS AND WOODCOCK. 

Clean and split down the back. Wash carefully and dry inside 
and out with a clean cloth. Leave on ice half an hour and broil over 
a clear, hot fire. Dish, pepper and salt, put a piece of butter upon, and 
lay under each bird a round of delicate toast. 

QUAIL PIE. 

Joint as you would a chicken for fricassee, cover the baking dish 
bottom with thin slices of streaky bacon, first partially boiled to ex- 
tract the salt ; cover with a good white sauce, a few mushrooms, or a 
little mushroom catsup, and some chopped parsley, then with puff- 
paste. Cut a slit in the middle; bake, covered, and slowly, one hour. 
Uncover and brown. 

ROAST GROUSE. 

Clean, rinse out well with soda and water, then with pure water ; 
wipe inside and out, and cover with thin slices of corned ham — more 
fat than lean. Bind criss-cross with soft twine or narrow tape, pour a 
cup of boiling water over them, and roast forty minutes, basting with 
the gravy in the pan three times. Take off the bacon, wash the birds 
with butter, dredge with flour and brown while you make the gravy. 



no The New Lucile Cook Book. 

GROUSE KROMESQUIES. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one egg, one cupful finely-chopped 
cooked grouse, one cupful of finely-chopped ham or tongue. 

Melt the butter, add the grouse and ham, and season to taste. Mix 
with the egg, and miosten with stock only if necessarj'. Make into 
small flat cakes and saute in hot fat. 

REED BIRDS. 

Pluck, draw, wash, wipe dry, rub a little salt inside, and put into 
a saucepan, with butter, pepper and a light sprinkling of salt over 
them. Watch constantly, turning often, that they may not scorch. A 
dozen birds will need a heaping teaspoonful of butter. Have a piece 
of toast ready for each bird on a hot platter. After placing the birds 
on the toast, add half a cupful of stock to the pan, and a squeeze of 
lemon juice; when heated pour a little on each bird, using the whole 
quantity of liquor. In the absence of stock, hot water may be used, 
and a little more butter added. Serve with slices of lemon. 

TO COOK SMALL GAME BIRDS. 

The small game birds, such as plover, snipe, quail and partridge, if 
young and fat, should be broiled or baked, but if lean, and perhaps 
tough, they will be better served in a brown fricassee. Dress them 
nicely and cut each bird into at least four pieces; then fry in a sauce- 
pan, with plenty of butter or clarified drippings, until a nice brown ; 
add sufficient boiling water to cover ; season with pepper and salt, put 
a tight cover over the saucepan, and allow to simmer until the birds 
are very tender; then remove to a hot platter, on which are some 
slices of buttered toast ; thicken the gravy with browned flour, pour it 
over the birds and serve. 

SALMI OF GAME. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one cupful 
of stock, one teaspoonful of catsup, one-fourth teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, six button mushrooms, two or three drops of onion extract, one 
cupful of cooked duck, cut in even, delicate pieces. 

Melt and brown the butter, add the flour and stir until browned. 
Add the stock, stir until it begins to thicken, then add the meat ^nd 



The New Lucile Cook Book. hi 



mushrooms. Stir gently until thoroughly heated and when ready to 
serve add the catsup, onion extract and lemon juice. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

ROAST PARTRIDGE. 

Pluck, draw, wash and wipe dry; rub with salt inside and out; 
place in the roasting-pan with a cupful of hot water and two ounces 
of butter. Put a thin slice of fat salt pork on each bird. Be sure to 
baste often ; have a moderately hot fire. About forty minutes will be 
required, but it will depend upon the size of the birds. When done, 
remove to a hot platter, and serve with a plain gravy, as with chicken ; 
or a cupful of stock and half a cupful of claret may be added to the 
roasting-pan after removing the birds. Allow the liquor to come to a 
boil, strain, and send to the table in a sauce-boat. Garnish with 
cresses or parsley. If preferred, fill the birds with a dressing, the same 
as chicken. 

BROILED PARTRIDGE. 

Pluck, draw, remove the head and feet; cut in two, wash, wipe 
dry, dip in melted butter, and broil over a clear fire until well done, 
and of a nice color. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Put a teaspoonful 
of melted butter on each bird. Garnish with curled cress, or water- 
cresses, or pieces of lemon. 

PARTRIDGE FRICASSEE. 

Prepare the same as a chicken ; wash well, put in a saucepan with 
hot w-ater enough to cover, replenishing it if it boils away. Remove 
the scum as it rises, cook until tender, and thicken the gravy with 
flour and water. Season with butter, pepper and salt ; put a little salt 
into the water when first put over to boil. Have ready hot biscuit, 
split, and laid on a hot platter. Pour the meat and gravy over them 
and send to the table hot. 

ROAST SQUAB. 

Pluck, wash, drain, rub each one on the inside with a little salt, 
and place in a row in a roasting-pan, with a very thin slice of fat salt 
pork, about an inch square on each bird ; sprinkle a very little pepper 



112 The New Lucile Cook Booic. 



over them. Place the pan in the oven ; put a piece of butter and a 
little hot water into it. Baste frequently. Use only water enough to 
cover the bottom of the pan, and by tipping it a little there will be 
enough for basting. When done, if there is not a tablespoonful of 
liquor for each bird, add a little water. 

Place on a hot platter, pour the liquor over them and send to the 
table garnished with water-cresses. 

BROILED SQUABS. 

Pluck, remove head and feet, draw, wash, and wipe dry, split 
down the back, and press them open to flatten them. Dip in melted 
butter, and broil over a clear, steady fire until done, and of a nice 
delicate color; then sprinkle with a little pepper, salt and bits of but- 
ter. Send to the table on hot buttered toast on a hot platter. The 
toast should be made before beginning to broil the birds, and placed 
together, and put into the oven to be ready for use. 

STEWED WILD PIGEONS. 

Wash well, when you have cleaned them, rinsing out with soda 
and water, and leave in salt and water for an hour. Chop fat corned 
pork fine, season with onion juice and paprika, and put a teaspoonful 
into the body of each bird. Truss neatly, winding the body about with 
soft thread, and put into a saucepan. Cover with cold water and 
simmer gently until tender. Take up then and lay in a fireproof dish. 
Wash with butter beaten to a cream with lemon juice, onion juice and 
finely minced parsley. Cover and set in the oven over hot water. 

Thicken the gravy with browned flour, beat in a great spoonful 
of currant jelly, add two dozen champignons cut into halves, boil one 
minute, return the pigeons to the gravy and simmer ten minutes. 

SQUAB, OR YOUNG WILD PIGEON PIE. 

Skin, draw, wash, and put into a stew-pan with barely enough 
water to cover them, also a pinch of salt and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Cook gently until tender, replenishing the w^ater if it boils 
away, so as to keep about the same quantity. When done, add a little 
butter and pepper, thicken a little with flour and water, smoothly 
stirred together. Let it boil up, taste, to see if sufficiently seasoned; 



The New Lucile Cook. Book. 113 



then draw to the side of the stove, and dip out into a baking dish, 
which cover with a crust made as for biscuit, or a puff-paste may be 
used. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Skin, draw and wash inside and out, and cut into convenient pieces 
and put into a saucepan with sufficient hot water to cover; add a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, a piece of red pepper, and salt. Cook 
very slowly until tender, keeping the same quantity of water by re- 
plenishing as it boils away. When done thicken the gravy with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth in the same quantity of butter; 
put the pigeons with the gravy into a deep baking dish and cover with 
a crust made as for soda biscuit. Brush over with beaten egg and bake 
until the crust is done. Serve in the baking dish. 

COLD ROAST BIRDS. 

Both game birds and poultry that have been nicely roasted are 
much nicer seived cold for lunhceon or teas than they are in any of 
the warmed-over or made dishes, however elaborate the preparation. 
If the bird has not been carved, put it on the table whole and garnish 
with cress or parsley; but if it has been cut from and is, therefore, un- 
sightly, cut the meat from the bone in neat slices, arrange on a platter, 
and garnish as before. Parts that cannot be cut into presentable 
pieces, can of course be minced and warmed. Cold roast meats are 
equally desirable, veal and lamb being especially delicious when cold. 

PIE OF SMALL BIRDS. 

English sparrows, blackbirds, ricebirds and snipe may be used. 

Clean and stew the "birds for half an hour in weak stock. Let 
them get perfectly cold in this gravy; take out, put an oyster in the 
body of each. Arrange around the inside of your bake-dish, the necks 
all against the rim, the tails pointing toward the centre. Put a bit of 
butter upon each breast and sprinkle very finely minced salt pork over 
all. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, season well and pour 
upon the birds. Cover with a good crust, cut a slit in the middle, and 
bake, covered, half an hour. Then brown. 



114 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



ROAST RABBIT. 

Dress, removing the head and feet, and lay in salt water about half 
an hour, then rinse in cold water, wipe dry, rub inside with salt, fill 
with a rich dressing of moistened bread crumbs, butter, pepper, salt and 
a little sage (or any other dressing preferred). Sew up the opening, 
and place the rabbit in the roasting-pan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
and lay a few slices of fat salt pork along the top ; cut the slices as thin 
as possible. Place in a moderately hot oven and baste frequently. Be 
sure that it is well cooked ; a little over an hour may be required. 
Baste with the butter and water that should be put in the roasting- 
pan. Garnish with slices of lemon. Thicken the gravy and send to 
the table in a sauce-boat. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

Prepare as for rabbit fricassee ; after removing from the salt water 
and rinsing, wipe dry and place on a plate. Obtain a little fat by fry- 
ing a few slices of fat salt pork, remove the pork and add a generous 
piece of butter. Put the pieces of rabbit in the pan, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt and cook until well done and of a nice color, and send 
to the table hot. Garnish with slices of lemon and cress. If pre- 
ferred, before frying, dip the pieces in beaten egg, then in cracker dust, 
or very fine bread crumbs. For frying the rabbit should be very 
tender. 

RABBIT FRICASSEE. 

Skin, remove entrails, feet, head and neck of two rabbits; wash, 
cut into pieces, and lay in salted cold water for half an hour; rinse in 
cold water, then put into a saucepan, with hot water enough to cover. 
Put in a pinch of salt. Remove the scum as it rises. Cook until 
tender, thicken with flour and water, add a squeeze of lemon juice, 
butter, and a little pepper to season it. Serve at once on a hot platter. 

CURRIED RABBIT. 

One cupful of finely-chopped cooked rabbit meat, one-half tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, one teaspoonful of curry powder. 

Make a brown sauce, add the rabbit meat and season with the 
curry powder and onion juice. When thoroughly heated serve with 
rice. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 115 



RABBIT PIE. 

Clean, wash and joint, cutting each back into three pieces. Leave 
in salt and water for half an hour; wipe, and rub well with lemon 
juice, salt and pepper; where the meat is thick, make several cuts with 
a knife that the seasoning may penetrate. Lay them in a saucepan, 
add cold water to cover, then put in a bay leaf, eight peppercorns, a 
bit of mace and two sliced onions. Cook slowly till the meat is tender. 
Have ready a buttered bake-dish and when the meat is cool lay within 
this, alternately with sliced boiled eggs, a few minced olives and a 
dozen tiny young onions which have been parboiled. Thicken with 
browned flour the liquor in which the rabbit was stewed, and add 
more salt if needed. Strain it over the meat, using enough to make it 
quite moist. Cover the dish with a rich pastry or baking-powder 
crust, make a wide cut in the centre, and bake, covered, half an hour, 
then brown. 

BROILED SQUIRRELS. 

Skin, draw, wash, and lay in salted water ten minutes; rinse in 
cold water, wipe dry, and broil over a clear, steady fire until well 
done ; then sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put on a hot dish, and pour 
over a little melted butter ; cover closely and set in the oven for a few 
minutes. It is then ready to serve. 

SQUIRREL PIE. 

Prepare the squirrels as for broiling, then cut up and put in a 
saucepan with water enough to cover them. As soon as it boils up 
throw the water away and cover again with hot water, and boil until 
tender, then season with butter, pepper and salt. A little salt may be 
put in when the second water is put on. Thicken a little with flour 
and water stirred smoothly together, then draw to the side of the 
stove; taste to see if sufficiently seasoned, then dip into an earthen 
baking dish and cover with a crust made as for biscuit, or a pufE-paste 
may be used. Make an opening in the centre of the crust an inch or 
two long to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
until the crust is done and of a rich brown. 



ii6 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



SAUCES. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST BEEF. 

Melt a little butter in a gill of water ; pour it over a roast when 
put in the oven ; place under it an earthen dish to catch the drippings ; 
baste often for half an hour, then set it to cool ; when cool, remove all 
fat, heat the gravy, and pour it over the roast. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

One small onion chopped fine and fried with two tablespoon fuls 
of butter ; when nearly done add a tablespoonful of flour and cook a 
minute; then add one cup of stock, seasoning, chopped cucumber, pars- 
ley and a little mustard ; boil ten minutes, and when done add a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Make as for caper sauce, using milk instead of broth or water, 
and add cauliflower cut into small pieces; or add lemon, and the livers 
boiled and mashed. 

VEGETABLE SAUCE. . 

Equal quantities of ripe tomatoes and young okras ; chop the okras 
fine, skin the tomatoes and slice one onion. Stew all together very 
slowly until tender, and season with half a tablespoonful of butter and 
a little cayenne pepper and salt. For cold meat. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Two tablcspoonfuls of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of boiling 
water, one tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning, add the flour and stir until 
smooth. Add the boiling water gradually, stirring all the while, and 
cook until it thickens. For a simple drawn butter sauce, when served, 
a tablespoonful of butter cut in small pieces is added. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of capers to the above and cook until 
heated. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 117 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Add to the above drawn butter sauce, the yolk of one egg and one- 
half of a cup of shrimps, cleaned and cut in pieces. 

BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Yolks of three eggs, one teaspoonful of vinegar, three tablespoon- 
fuls of white stock, three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two or three drops 
of onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until very light. Add the stock and the 
oil gradually, stirring all the while. Put over the fire in a farina 
boiler and stir constantly until the eggs have thickened. Take from 
the fire, add the seasoning, mix well, and put away to cool. This 
sauce is served cold. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

One-fourth pound of butter, two dessertspoonfuls of minced pars- 
ley and pepper to taste, salt and a scant tablespoon ful of lemon juice. 
Mix all well together, but do not stir more than is necessary. Pack 
in tiny jars, leaving half an inch space at the top, which should be 
filled with clarified butter or drippings; cover close and' set away for 
use. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

The following is very nice for all kinds of baked fish, but especially 
for salmon or trout : Put two tablespoonfuls of hot water with a tea- 
cupful of sweet cream into a saucepan; stir in one tablespoonful of 
butter and a little chopped parsley. Set the saucepan into a kettle of 
boiling water; add the strained gravy from the dripping-pan, stir well 
together, boil up, take from the fire and add another tablespoonful of 
butter, then pour around the fish on a hot platter. Garnish daintily 
with parsley. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Three tablespoonfuls of chopped, fresh meat, a teacupful of vin- 
egar, two teaspoonfuls of sugar in the vinegar, put into a glass can 
or bottle. It will keep well and can be used any time. Serve with 
lamb. 



ii8 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



ONION SAUCE. 

Peel six or seven good-sized onions, and boil tender, drain and 
chop fine. Heat one pint of milk in a saucepan, add one tablespoonful 
of flour, and two of butter, stir in the onions, season with salt and 
pepper ; boil a few minutes, and serve with roast pork. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls of tomatoes, two slices of onion, two sprigs of pars- 
ley, one bay leaf, one leaf of celery, two cloves, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of flour. 

Put the tomatoes in a saucepan over the fire with the parsley, bay 
leaf, celery, onion and cloves. Simmer for twenty minutes. Press 
through a sieve. Melt the butter without browning, add the flour 
and stir until smooth. Add the strained tomato juice and cook, 
stirring gently until it thickens. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 

One cupful of mayonnaise dressing, one tablespoonful of chopped 
pickles, one tablespoonful of capers, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, half a teaspoonful of onion juice. 

Mix the pickles, capers, parsley and onion juice carefully with the 
mayonnaise dressing just before using. Olives may be used in the 
place of pickles if the sauce is not desired so tart. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

To one pint of drawn butter add a tablespoonful of curry 
powder, wet with a little cold water; let it simmer two minutes, and 
serve with broiled or fried meats. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Boil the giblets until tender. Chop them, but not too fine. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Add slowly a cupful of the water in which the giblets have 
been boiled and a cup and a half of rich milk. Add to this the chopped 
giblets and season with salt and pepper. Serve in sauce-boat. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 119 



CAULIFLOWER SAUCE. 

To a pint of white sauce add a cupful of chopped cauliflower. 
Reheat, and when ready to serve stir in a teaspoonful of butter and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Into one cupful of champagne put two cloves, four peppercorns, 
one bay leaf and a little sugar. Let all simmer for five minutes. 
Then add one cupful of brown sauce. Simmer for ten minutes more 
and strain. To be served with ham. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Wash a bunch of parsley in cold water, then boil it about six or 
seven minutes in salt and water. Drain it; cut the leaves from the 
stocks and chop them fine. Have ready some melted butter, and stir 
in the parsley, allow two small tablespoonfuls of leaves to one-half 
pint of butter. Serve with boiled fowls and fish. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Into a cupful of drawn butter beat a great spoonful of grated 
horseradish wet with lemon juice, and work to creamy whiteness. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put a dozen and a half of oysters into a stew-pan, with a teacupful 
of cold water; boil, skim and add a tablespoonful of butter and one 
of flour rubbed smoothly together, a little salt and pepper. Remove 
from the fire and add a little of the juice of lemon, and another table- 
spoonful of butter. Serve with boiled codfish, boiled chicken and boiled 
turkey. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Boil half a cupful of minced celery in a cupful of hot water for 
fifteen minutes. Strain through a cloth, pressing hard. Return the 
liquor to the fire and boil up. Then cook with it a roux made of two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and the same of flour. Have ready the yolk 
of an egg, beaten light. Pour the hot sauce upon it, stir less than one 
minute over the fire, season with salt and paprika and pour out. 

A nice accompaniment to boiled fowl and to boiled mutton. 



120 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, half cupful 
of cream, half cupful of mushroom liquor, half can of mushrooms, salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Cut the mushrooms in halves with a silver knife. Proceed as 
directed for the white sauce, adding the mushrooms just as the sauce 
begins to thicken. They should cook only long enough to be heated 
through and the sauce be served at once. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of milk or white stock, 
one tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning; add the flour, stir until it is 
blended and smooth. Add the liquid, stir until it thickens, season and 
serve. 

This is the basis for a large quantity of sauces which are used with 
fish, boiled fowl, roast turkey and chicken, veal and chicken cro- 
quettes, sweetbreads, many vegetables and eggs in various forms. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Use one-half of a cupful of stock and one-half a cupful of cream. 
When ready to serve add yolk of one egg. 

SAUCE SUPREME. 

Use one cupful of chicken stock, and when ready to serve add the 
yolks of two eggs. 

EGG SAUCE. 

To the white or cream sauce add two hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices, and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one cupful 
of stock or water, salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter and brown; add the flour; stir until smooth and 
thoroughly browned. Add the stock, stir until it thickens, season and 
serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 121 



It takes much longer to make a brown than a white sauce, as 
browning flour hardens the starch grains so they do not readily expand 
and thicken the sauce. 

From this sauce are made many, adding different flavorings, such 
as catsup, curry powder, Worcestershire sauce, etc. Brown sauce and 
its variations are served with dark-colored meats, game, ham, cutlets, 
etc. 

ASPIC OR ORNAMENTAL SAVORY JELLY. 

Remove the fat from three slices of ham, cut in small pieces and 
lay in the bottom of a stew-pan ; now cut in small pieces four pounds 
of knuckle of veal and any poultry trimimngs you may happen to 
have ; place in the stew-pan on the ham, add two carrots and an onion 
sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four cloves, a glass of sherry, 
salt and white pepper to taste, and three quarts of cold water ; let the 
whole simmer very gently four hours, carefully taking away all scum 
that may arise to the surface ; strain through a fine sieve and pour into 
an earthen dish to get cold, after which remove the fat should there 
be any ; put into a clean stew-pan, leaving the sediment behind, add the 
whites of three eggs to clarify; keep stirring over the fire until the 
whole becomes very white, then draw it to the side and let stand until 
clear. Strain through a cloth or jelly-bag. Useful for molding fish, 
oj'sters and chickens ; it is also a nice basis for salad dressing. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Beat a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce into a cupful of drawn but- 
ter, adding the juice of half a lemon and a dash of cayenne or paprika. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Into a cupful of drawn butter beat a good teaspoonful of anchovj' 
sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and half a can of shrimps minced fine 
and made very hot in a tablespoonful of boiling butter. Simmer for 
two minutes and serve. 

An excellent fish sauce. 

SAUCE FOR HALIBUT. 

Add a little water to the gravy in the roasting-pan, thicken a very 
little, add the juice of a lemon, one tablespoonful of tomato catsup or 



122 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



Worcestershire sauce, pepper and salt to taste. Send to the table in 
a sauce-boat. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Make a rich drawn butter and beat into it the coral of a lobster 
worked smooth with a tablespoonful of butter. Add the juice of half 
a lemon, cayenne and salt. Finally, add half a cupful of lobster meat, 
minced as fine as powder. Heat and serve. 

FISH SAUCE. 

One-half pint of walnut pickle, half a pint of port wine, one-half 
pint of mushroom catsup, one dozen anchovies, one dozen shallots, 
one-fourth of a pint of soy and half a teaspoonful of cayenne. Put 
all the ingredients into a saucepan, having previously chopped the shal- 
lots and anchovies very small; simmer fifteen minutes, strain, and 
when cold bottle for use. See that the bottles are air tight. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

Make a cupful of a brown sauce of butter, browned flour and a 
little caramel. Heat boiling hot and beat in four or five teaspoonfuls 
of currant or other tart jelly. 

Serve with game, lamb or mutton. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Wash and pick over carefully a quart of cranberries. Put into the 
inner vessel of a double boiler, fill the outer with boiling water and 
cook, keeping the cranberries closely covered until they are broken to 
pieces. Rub through your vegetable press into a saucepan, sweeten 
abundantly, bring to a boil (barely), and turn into a wet mold to 
torm. 

CLAM COCKTAIL SAUCE. 

Juice of three lemons, one teaspoonful of grated horseradish, one 
white onion grated, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire, four dashes of 
tabasco, quarter of a cup of catsup, two tablespoonfuls sweet Spanish 
peppers, one teaspoonful chopped green peppers, black pepper and salt 
to taste. Cut a grape fruit in half and extract from each half the core 
of the fruit. Put in about eight small clams and add the sauce. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 123 



SALADS. 

"My salad days, when I was green." 

There is, perhaps, no dish which adds more to the luncheon or tea 
than a nicely prepared salad. 

While nearly all meats, vegetables and fruits may be served as 
salads, the dressings are limited in kinds. Not only does the meat, 
vegetable or fruit to be used determine the mode of dressing, but the 
part the salad is to play in the meal has also something to do with it. 
If the salad be the main dish at luncheon or tea, it must be substantial 
and satisfying ; but if it be but an accessory it should be simple and re- 
freshing, an appetizer only. 

Meat salads, occasionally fish and some few vegetables are dressed 
with a mayonnaise; green vegetables are served with a French dress- 
ing. Fish, egg and meat salads are greatly improved by marinating, 
and for fish this first dressing should be acid. Green salads are wilted 
by remaining any length of time in the dressing, but many vegetables 
need to be marinated for flavor. 

SIMPLE LETTUCE SALAD. 

Mix a teaspoonful of salt with half as much pepper; fill a large 
spoon with vinegar, mixing salt and pepper well in this ; turn into a 
mixing bowl ; then fill the spoon three times with oil. Stir and toss until 
the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated. Two larger bowls should 
be ready at hand, one empty, the other heaped with crisp, cold lettuce 
leaves. Pick these apart lightly with the tips of your fingers and put 
into the empty bowl. When all are in pour the dressing over the let- 
tuce, tossing lightly and quickly with salad fork and spoon. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Chop cold, cooked chicken meat into even-sized pieces, not too 
small. Select the tender stalks of celery, as the outer tough pieces will 
spoil the salad. Wash, scrape and chop into small pieces. For every 
two cupfuls of chicken meat take one cupful of celery. Marinate the 
chicken and keep in a cool place until ready to serve. Mix with the 




'T/:e Salt of Kings 
The King of Salts"" 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

vshould be ''smooth" and clear 
and free from "grit," and if 

be used this result is assured 



IT IS ALWAYS PURE AND WHOLESOME, DAINTY, 

FINE AND DRY AND IS PARTICULARLY 

ADAPTED FOR TABLE USE 



CereboSi ^alt remains dry and free running when other brands have 
become a sodden mass 

PUT UP IN SEALED POURER PACKAGES AT 10 CENTS EACH 
FOR SALE BY 

^cfeer, jHerrall & Conbit Co. 

SOLE LMPORTERS 

Cereljog ^alt Company : : 50 Jf errp Street, i^eto l^orfe 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 125 



celery. For every quart of salad take one cupful of thick mayonnaise 
dressing, mix gently with the salad, leaving sufficient to use as a gar- 
nish with lettuce leaves or celery tops. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the boiled lobster meat into as even pieces as possible. Mari- 
nate and put in a cool place until wanted. When ready to serve, mix 
with shredded lettuce leaves and mayonnaise dressing in the propor- 
tion of one-half cupful of dressing to every pint of salad. Serve on 
curly lettuce leaves, garnished with the dressing and the powdered 
coral of the lobster, if desired. Fish salads of any description should 
be served at once after mixing. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred a white cabbage fine. Heat a cup of milk. Heat, also, a 
gill of vinegar, and when this last is boiling, stir into it a tablespoon- 
ful, eacli, of butter and sugar, a teaspoonful of celery essence, two salt- 
spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. When boiling hard, stir in the 
shredded cabbage, and as soon as this is really hot, remove it from the 
fire. Pour the scalding milk slowly upon two beaten eggs and cook, 
stirring steadily until thick, then pour upon the cabbage and toss until 
well mixed. Set in the ice for two hours. Serve very cold. 

HOT SLAW. 

With a sharp knife — there are knives made for the express pur- 
pose — cut up nicely a firm head of cabbage; sprinkle it with as much 
pepper and salt as you think necessary ; beat up the yolk of an egg, add 
a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a gill of cream, the same quan- 
tity of vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, an even teaspoonful of mustard 
and a pinch of bruised celery seed ; heat these condiments, mix to- 
gether in a tin cup, put the slaw in an oven, and pour the mixture over 
it boiling hot ; stir it until well mixed, and the cabbage slightly 
coddled, then send to the table hot. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil four good-sized potatoes ; when cool, remove the skin and cut 
in slices one-quarter inch thick. Put in salad bowl one layer potatoes 



126 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



sprinkled with a little salt, and one large spray of parsley, one mef^-'im- 
sized onion, and a few chives, chopped fine. Repeat until all is used 
up with chopped greens on top. Make a dressing of one-quarter cup 
vinegar, five tablespoons of olive oil, one dash of salt, one-quarter tea- 
spoon black pepper, one teaspoon sugar. Beat well with a fork and 
pour over the ingredients. 

SHRIMP AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Cut the tops from ripe tomatoes and remove the insides. Fill the 
tomato shells with cold boiled shrimps, with their backs up ; set each 
tomato upon a leaf of lettuce and pour mayonnaise dressing over all. 
A pretty salad. 

CRAB AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Carefully strip the skin from six large, firm tomatoes, and remove 
the centres. Fill the hollowed vegetables with the chopped and sea- 
soned meat of six boiled crabs. Set the stuffed tomatoes in the ice for 
several hours. Lay on crisp lettuce leaves, and put a spoonful of mayon- 
naise dressing upon each tomato. 

SALT COD SALAD. 

Soak over night a thick piece of cod weighing a pound or more. 
Drain, cover with cold water, heat slowly. Keep just below simmer- 
ing point for forty minutes, drain and cool. Break in large flakes, 
marinate with a cold cooked salad dressing and let stand two hours on 
ice. Arrange on a bed of lettuce, and more dressing and garnish with 
small red radishes. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel medium-sized ripe tomatoes and cut them in slices; set them 
in the refrigerator or on ice, where they will get thoroughly cold; 
cover with either of the mayonnaise dressings when ready to serve — 
the cream mayonnaise is very delicious for tomatoes. If preferred, the 
tomatoes may be served whole with a teaspoonful of dressing on each ; 
both tomatoes and dressing should stand on the ice until the moment 
of serving. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 127 

^ ASPARAGUS AND SHRIMP SALAD. 

To one cupful of shrimps add two cupfuls of cold cooked aspar- 
agus tips, and toss lightly together. Season with salt and pepper. 
Make a dressing of the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, rubbed through 
a sieve, and sufficient oil and vinegar to make the consistency of cream, 
using twice as much oil as vinegar. Pour over the asparagus and 
shrimps. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Take the tenderer stalks, separate, clean and place in cold water 
for half an hour. Shake off the water and cut in pieces half an inch 
long. Put into the salad bowl and pour over them a mayonnaise 
dressing (which should have been placed in the refrigerator for a 
while before using) ; toss up lightly until well mixed, then garnish 
with blanched celery leaves, and send to the table. 

CRESS SALAD. 

Look over carefully and wash, removing the greater part of the 
stems; cut in pieces, pile in a salad bowl and dress with pepper, salt, 
oil, vinegar, and a very little sugar. Serve immediately. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One pint of peas, the same quantity of string beans, three heads of 
lettuce, finely shred, a bunch of pepper-grass, parsley, or cress, and 
one or two small onions chopped very fine. Boil the peas and beans 
in slightly salted water until tender; drain, cut the beans in three 
pieces lengthwise ; mix all well together and cover with French salad 
dressing; toss up and serve. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Choose fresh, large cucumbers, they may be nearly or quite ripe; 
pare and slice very thin ; then lay in iced water for an hour or two. 
Dress with pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, to which add a few drops of 
onion juice. 

A MACEDOINE SALAD. 

One cup of green peas, boiled and cold, and the same of string 
beans cut into half-inch lengths, well cooked and suffered to get cold. 



128 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



One cup of celery cut into inch lengths. One-half cup of boiled car- 
rots, cut into tiny dice, also cold. One cup of red beets boiled and 
cut into small dice. Leave all these ingredients in the icebox until 
chilled and stiff. Have ready a chilled glass or silver bowl — a shallow 
one is best ; heap the beets in the centre, arrange next to them a ring 
of celery dice, then the beans, next the carrots, lastly the peas — all 
forming a mound. Pour over this a good French dressing, garnish 
with a wreath of nasturtium blooms about the base and set on the ice 
until needed. Pass, if you like, a mayonnaise dressing with it. The 
true salad lover will, however, prefer the French dressing alone. It is 
a beautiful salad and easily made. If you cannot get celery in sum- 
mer, substitute boiled corn cut from the cob to make the white ring. 

A FRUIT SALAD. 

Pare four juicy, sweet oranges, peel off every bit of the white 
inner skin from the fruit it incloses, pull the lobes apart, and cut each 
into four pieces. 

Scald a cupful of English walnut kernels, strip away the bitter 
skin and let the kernels get dry and cold. Mix with the bits of 
orange, set on the ice for an hour, heap in a glass salad dish lined with 
crisp lettuce and cover with a good mayonnaise dressing. 

Some consider a tablespoonful of celery cut into small pieces an 
improvement to this dish. 

FRUIT COMBINATION. 

Slice oranges, bananas and apples alternately into a glass bowl, 
sweetening with powdered sugar and adding a little chopped or shaved 
ice if desired. In another dish make a dressing of one part olive oil, 
two parts lemon juice and one part sherry or rum. Stir well together 
and add a sprig of crushed mint to give flavor. When the dressing is 
well mixed, pour over the fruit and place the mint on top. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD. 

Scoop the inside from fine, smooth, tart apples, and fill them with 
a mixture of cut-up celery and walnut meats, blanched and chopped, 
the whole well moistened with mayonnaise. Slices of pippins are 
sometimes mixed with water-cress and covered with French dressing, 
making a piquante salad that is especially good with roast duck. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 129 



CHEESE SALAD. 

Arrange some nice, crisp lettuce leaves in a circle on a plate, the 
stems pointing toward the centre; on the top leaf of each little pile 
put a small pat of cottage cheese and a hard-boiled egg from which 
the shell has been removed. In serving, dish an egg, a pat of cheese, 
and several lettuce leaves to each person, who cuts up, and dresses the 
salad with the French dressing of vinegar, pepper, salt, and oil, for 
himself. 

RUSSIAN SALADS. 

A Rusian salad is but a mixture of cold, chopped meats, and may 
be varied at will to suit the taste, or the exigencies of the situation. 
Beef, ham, tongue, chicken, lamb, mutton and veal may all be mixed 
after being finely chopped, but it rarely happens in the home that all 
these meats are on hand. A mixture of chicken, ham and tongue, 
with mushrooms and anchovies, may be served on lettuce with a 
French dressing or sauce Tartare. Roast beef with anchovies make 
a very good salad, and veal, turkey or chicken with tongue another. 
Small pieces of cold game may be used and are delicious with a sauce 
Tartare. 

PEACH SALAD. 

Pare a quart of ripe, yellow peaches, and cut into thin slices ; slice 
very thin a half cupful of blanched almonds. Mix the fruit and nuts 
with two-thirds of a cupful of mayonnaise, to which has been added 
one-third of a cupful of whipped cream. Serve immediately on lettuce 
leaves. 

ICED TOMATO SALAD. 

Cook a quart of raw tomatoes soft, strain and season with nut- 
meg, sugar, paprika, a pinch of grated lemon-peel and salt. Freeze 
until firm ; put a spoonful upon a crisp lettuce leaf in each plate, cover 
with mayonnaise and serve immediately. It is still prettier if you can 
freeze it in round apple-shaped molds. 

Canned tomatoes may be used if you have not fresh. 



130 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



ENDIVE SALAD. 

To fresh endives add French dressing. Use about two-thirds vin- 
egar to one-third olive oil, scant tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, two 
dashes tabasco, French mustard, paprika, and salt to taste. 

MIDSUMMER SALAD. 

Marinade in a French dressing, made with equal parts of oil and 
vinegar, seasoning to taste, two cold-boiled potatoes cut in dice and 
four hard-cooked eggs. Just before serving, pare two cucumbers until 
all the white fibre is removed, cut into dice and add to the marinade. 
Cover with a thick mayonnaise. It may be garnished with lemon, 
pimolas, olives or red peppers, or it may be served in tomato cups. 

GREEN PEPPERS ON TOAST. 

A delicious relish to serve with any chafing-dish compound is crisp, 
thin slices of toast sprinkled with green peppers that have been 
chopped to the last degree of fineness and covered lightly with a little 
mayonnaise. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER. 

Pour boiling water upon tomatoes, and pour off again at once, 
when the skins may be readily removed. Peel the cucumbers. Ar- 
range alternate slices of tomato and cucumber until six slices are piled 
one on top of the other. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and, if desired, 
garnish with red peppers. Serve ice cold with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

CHESTNUT SALAD. 

Make a slight incision in the outer skin of thirty large chestnuts, 
put in a saucepan of hot water and boil twenty minutes; drain, plunge 
into cold water and peel off the skins ; cut into quarters and dust with 
salt and pepper ; peel four sour apples and cut in pieces of similar size 
to nuts ; cut some of the dark meat ofi a cold roasted turkey, making 
pieces about the same size; arrange on lettuce leaves in the salad bowl, 
sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of chopped mixed pickles, pour 
a plain dressing over the whole and serve as cold as possible. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 131 



SALAD DRESSING. 

In dressing salad, mind this law; 
With two hard yolks use one that's raw. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Before beginning the dressing, chill the plate, eggs and oil, even 
the fork. Put the yolks of two eggs, carefully freed from the whites, 
in a soup-plate; add one-half of a tablespoonful of salt and stir with 
a silver fork until the yolks are well broken and mixed ; add the oil, 
drop by drop, at first, being careful to always stir in the same direc- 
tion. Add a drop of vinegar when needed, that is, when the oil and 
eggs show globules of oil, or, to use the common expression, the emul- 
sion looks oily. As the mixture becomes thick, the oil may be added 
faster, always stirring, not beating, and adding only suflficient acid to 
keep the dressing from separating. Two eggs will easily take a pint 
of oil. Season with salt and red pepper and lemon juice, if desired, 
or necessary. When finished, the dressing should be thick and smooth 
and a perfect mayonnaise should not be strongly acid, as that destroys 
the flavor of the oil. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, one teaspoonful of made mustard, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, the same of vinegar, then a sprinkling 
of pepper. Rub smoothly together, and add at the last half a teacup- 
ful of sweet cream. Beat thoroughly with an egg beater. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Use two-thirds oil to one-third vinegar. For every tablespoonful 
of vinegar and three of oil take one-half of a tablespoonful of salt and 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful of black or white pepper. Mix the salt 
and pepper with the oil and add the vinegar slowly, stirring all the 
while, until it becomes white and a little thickened. The dressing 
must be used or served at once or it will separate. 

To marinate is to cover with French dressing and allow to stand 
two or three hours. When ready to serve, the dressing not absorbed 
should be drained from the meat or vegetable marinated and the salad 
mixed with the dressing to be used. 



USE 



c>llpha Salad Cream 



AS A DRESSING 



FOR 



ALL SALADS 



CONTAINS NO OIL 



PURE, W^HOLESOME AND MOST DELICIOUS 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 133 



SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Have a cupful of rich, sour cream very cold, then beat hard for 
five minutes, adding, as you do so, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar 
and a half-teaspoonful of lemon juice. This dressing is delicious 
served with chilled cucumbers, sliced thin. 

BOILED DRESSING. 

Two eggs, one cupful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one-fourth cupful of butter, one-half 
teaspoonful of sugar. 

Beat the eggs light without separating; add the vinegar, salt, 
pepper, sugar and butter melted. Mix well and put over hot water. 
Stir constantly until the dressing is thickened; cool and serve. If too 
thick, thin with cream or olive oil, as desired. 



134 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



EGQS AND OMELETS. 

"The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 

BOILED EGGS. 

The time for boiling an egg must be varied to suit the different 
tastes. 

For those who wish to have the whites set, but the yolk a perfect 
liquid, three minutes and a half will be sufficient; for others who 
prefer the outer edge of the yolk a little hardened, four minutes will 
be required. Eggs for garnishing should be boiled about ten minutes, 
then placed in cold water for a moment that the whites may not be- 
come discolored. 

The water should be boiling hot when the eggs are put in. 

A wire basket is the most convenient; the eggs are placed in it, 
and submerged in the boiling water until cooked, then removed. 

In the absence of a wire basket, a perforated skimmer may be used 
for putting them in and removing them. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Fill a shallow pan nearly full of salted, boiling water. As soon as 
the water simmers, not boils, slip in the eggs, one by one, from a cup 
or saucer, into which they have previously been broken. Dip the 
water over them with a spoon, that the yolk may be cooked. When 
the white is firm and a film has formed over the yolk, take out each 
egg with a skimmer. Drain well ; trim the edges, place on even 
rounds of toast, sprinkle with salt, pepper and melted butter, and 
serve at once. 

OMELETS. 

Break four eggs into a bowl; beat until broken only. Add to four 
eggs three tablespoon fuls of cream or four teaspoonfuls of warm water 
and one teaspoonful of butter. Put the pan over the fire, and when it 
is hot put in one teaspoonful of butter, tipping the pan that the butter 
may melt and run over it quickly. As soon as the butter is melted 
turn the eggs into the pan, shaking it gently to keep the eggs from 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 135 

cooking too rapidly on the bottom. As the lower part cooks, lift with 
a spatula, allowing the uncooked upper portion to run on to the hot 
pan. When the omelet is of a soft, creamy consistency, season with 
salt and pepper, tip the pan, slip the knife under the omelet and care- 
fully roll it to the centre. Let it cook a moment longer to brown. 
Should it not brown quickly, add a little butter, letting it run under 
the omelet. Turn out on a hot dish and serve at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Four eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, salt and pepper to taste. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, add the cream and beat only enough 
to blend the yolks and whites. Melt the butter in the frying-pan, and 
when hot turn in the eggs. Do not stir until they begin to form, and 
then gently, lifting them up and over that the flakes may be large and 
the eggs tender and well cooked. As soon as the eggs are suffiicently 
set, remove from the fire and stir until dry. Season and serve. 

Scrambled eggs may be varied in the same way as omelets, adding 
chopped ham, parsley, mushrooms, minced chicken, veal or sweet- 
breads. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

For six hard-boiled eggs take one cupful of finely-chopped cooked 
meat, one-fourth cupful of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, melted, 
seasoning to taste. 

Cut the eggs in halves. Carefully take out the yolks, put them 
through a press and mix to a smooth paste with the melted butter. 
Add the meat and the seasoning; mix with the cream gradually, as 
it may not all be needed. When the mixture is of the proper con- 
sistency to stuff the eggs, season, fill each half carefully and make it 
even on top. Rub a little raw white of eggs over the pieces and press 
them together. Roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking-hot 
fat. Serve with a cream sauce. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Butter small "nappies" and drop an egg carefully into each, taking 
care not to break the yolk. Set the nappies in a pan of boiling water 
on the range, and cook until the white is set. Put on each egg a bit 
of butter, and a dash each of pepper and salt. Serve at once. 



T36 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



EGGS, OMAR PASHA. 

Poach twelve fresh eggs. Lay on a china dish and keep warm. 
Heat one and a half tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a small sauce- 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and thoroughly stir for one min- 
ute. Then add one cup of hot milk and briskly whisk until it comes 
to a boil. Season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne 
pepper and half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese and one raw egg. Sharply whisk for two 
minutes, then pour over the eggs. Place in a hot oven to bake for 
three minutes and serve. 



OMELET WITH CHEESE. 

Beat six eggs as light as possible ; put two ounces of butter into a 
saucepan on. the range; grate three ounces of good cheese — not too 
new — which add to the beaten egg; season with salt, cayenne, and 
white pepper, and add to the butter, which should be quite hot; stir 
constantly until the mixture is of the consistency of cold, thick cream ; 
serve at once. 

OMELET WITH RUM. 

Make a sweet omelet, and when serving pour over it a glass of 
rum, to which touch a light wax taper, and serve while burning. 

EGGS BROUILLE. 

Six eggs, half a cup of milk, or, better still, of cream ; two mush- 
rooms, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a slight grating of nutmeg. 

Cut the mushrooms into dice, and fry them for one minute in one 
tablespoonful of the butter. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper and cream to- 
gether, and put them in a saucepan. Add the butter and mushrooms 
to these ingredients. 

Stir over a moderate heat until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire and beat rapidly until the eggs become quite thick 
and creamy. Have slices of toast on a hot dish. Heap the mixture 
on these, and garnish with points of toast. Serve immediately. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 137 



OMELET WITH HAM. 

Take well boiled ham and chop it fine, then put into a frying-pan 
or spider with a little butter. Sprinkle with pepper and a little salt 
if necessary. When hot pour it over the eggs, which have been pre- 
pared as for a plain omelet. When the eggs are set, fold over by 
passing a wide bladed knife under it at the side nearest the handle of 
the pan; by raising the pan at the same time, the turning will be 
greatly facilitated, for it is not an easy matter for an inexperienced 
person to turn an omelet well. Send to the table at once on a warm 
platter. 

SCOTCH EGG. 

One cupful of cooked lean ham chopped very fine, one-third of 
a cupful of stale bread crumbs, one-third of a cupful of milk, half a 
teaspoonful of mixed mustard, cayenne enough to cover a silver five- 
cent piece, one raw egg and six hard-boiled. 

Cook the bread and milk together until a smooth paste. Add to 
the ham, and add the seasoning and raw egg. Mix thoroughly. 
Break the shells from the hard-boiled eggs and cover with this mix- 
ture. Put in a frying basket and plunge into boiling fat for two 
minutes. These are nice for lunch, tea or picnics. 

EGGS A L'INDIENNE. 

Six eggs, two onions, butter, a tablespoonful of curry powder, one 
pint of broth, a cup of cream, arrowroot. Slice the onions and fry in 
butter a light brown, add curry powder and mix with the broth, al- 
lowing to simmer till tender; then put in cream and thicken with 
arrowroot, simmer for five minutes, then add six hard-boiled eggs 
cut in slices. 

OLIVE OMELET. 

Half can mushrooms, quarter cup olives (plain or stuffed) and 
cream. Chop the olives and mushrooms and beat in enough strictly 
sweet cream to make a paste; season; make a plain omelet, and just 
before serving fold in the paste. Serve with stoned olives and pars- 
ley to garnish. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Before putting your omelet over the fire, have ready the filling. 
Chop a dozen oysters into tiny bits. Stir together over the fire a 



138 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



large spoonful of butter and one of flour. When smooth and bub- 
bling draw to the side of the range and add gradually three table- 
spoonfuls of cream (with a pinch of soda), and the same quantity 
of strained oyster liquor. Set back over the fire and stir until it 
boils. Season with paprika and salt ; add the chopped oysters, and 
bring again to a boil. Set in boiling water while you make the 
omelet. When this is ready to fold over, cover with the cooked 
oysters, fold, and turn out upon a very hot dish. 
Clam omelet is made in the same way. 

BAKED MUSHROOM OMELET. 

Peal and cut into quarters a dozen fresh mushrooms and put 
them into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, pepper and 
salt to taste, and a few drops of lemon juice. Cover the pan and 
simmer slowly for ten minutes. Add one cupful of thickened chicken 
or veal stock, and cook slowly ten minutes longer. Then stir in 
six eggs, well-beaten, turn into a buttered bake-dish, sift browned 
crumbs over the top, and set upon the upper grating of a quick oven 
until the eggs are "set." Five minutes should be enough. Serve at 
once in the bake-dish. 

BAKED SOUFFLE OF EGGS. 

Scald a cup of milk, putting in a tiny pinch of soda. Beat the 
yolks of six eggs until light and creamy, and the whites till stif? 
enough to stand alone. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of pepper and one rounded tablespoonful of butter to the milk and 
stir it into the yolks; then beat in the whites very quickly. Pour 
into a deep, buttered pudding-dish and bake in a moderate oven ten 
minutes, or to a delicate brown. Serve immediately in the bake- 
dish. 

FRIZZLED BEEF AND EGGS. 

To every half pound of chipped beef allow half a pint of milk, 
one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour. Put 
the butter into a frying-pan ; when hot add the beef and stir for 
about two minutes, or until the butter begins to brown, then dredge 
in the flour. Stir well, add the milk and a little pepper, and just 
before taking from the fire whip in two well-beaten eggs. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 139 



SCALLOP WITH EGGS. 

Butter a shallow baking dish; put a layer of crackers or bread 
crumbs in the buttom of it; add a layer of not very finely-chopped 
cold veal or lamb ; season with pepper, salt and bits of butter ; 
moisten with gravy, milk or cream; put a layer of cracker or bread 
crumbs on the top, and bake covered until the gravy bubbles up 
through the surface. Remove the cover and break into the dish 
enough eggs to well cover the top ; put pepper and salt and a bit of 
butter on each, and bake until the whites are well set. Serve in the 
dish in which the scallop was baked. Cold turkey or chicken may be 
used for the above. 

BROILED EGGS. 

Toast as many half slices of bread as the number of eggs re- 
quired ; butter the toast, break an egg carefully and put one on each 
piece. Hold a hot salamander, or a hot shovel over each egg until the 
white is set. Also sprinkle each egg with a little salt, white pepper, 
and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve at once. 



^The Housewife is always pre- 
pared for the unexpected visitor, 
when there's an assortment of 
AMCEHAT Boned or 
Potted Meats in the cupboard 
Dainty lunches quickly prepared 



L'ACADIE OLIVE OIL 



^bgolutelp ^ure 



FAR SUPERIOR TO LARD AND OTHER 
ANIMAL FATS, FOR USE IN COOKERY 

Recognized by the most prominent physicians 
as a potent factor in the cure of many ailments 

Acker, Merrall & Condit Company 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 141 



VEGETABLES. 

" A fat kitchen maketh a lean will. " 

There is one fact which many people have yet to learn, and that is 
that although it is advisable, if not necessary, during the cold weather 
to include meat in some form or other in the daily bill of fare, yet 
in the sweltering days of June and July it may with advantage be 
sometimes, if not always, omitted. 

As a nation Americans eat much more meat than is necessary; 
and even in this enlightened twentieth century there exist numbers 
of families who would consider themselves ill nourished unless a 
steaming hot joint appeared on their table on each of the 365 days of 
the year. 

Although an entirely vegetarian diet is not altogether urged, yet 
it will be greatly to every one's advantage if during the hot weather 
people arranged that "dressed vegetables," together with dainty con- 
coctions of macaroni and other nutritious foods, should form one of 
their chief meals. 

These dishes may, and probably will be, more trouble to prepare 
than a roast joint, with boiled potatoes, but the benefit obtained will 
be well worth the pains they cost. 

In the selection of vegetables too great care cannot be taken that 
only fresh ones be secured, for it is imperative that the health of a 
family be protected by rejecting all stale ones. 

POTATOES. 

Pare potatoes thin ; the mealiest, flakiest portion lies next to the 
skin. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash potatoes with a brush ; if you pare them remember that the 
dryest part of the potato is next the skin. When ready to cook, drop 
into boiling salted water; the moment they are done pour off the 
water, every drop, return to the fire for an instant, give the kettle a 
vigorous shake, and set on the back part of the range, where they will 
keep hot without scorching; cover with a crash towel. Send only 
enough to the table to serve once, and replenish the dish with hot 
ones as required. 



142 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



MASHED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes; boil in salted water; the moment 
the potatoes are done, drain; then return to the stove and mash, using 
the potato masher vigorously until not a lump remains. Have heated 
in a clean, bright saucepan half a cupful of cream, or two-thirds of a 
cupful of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, the white of an 
egg well beaten, and a teaspoonful of salt for a quart of mashed 
potatoes; beat this into the mashed potato until they are as light as 
possible. Put into a warm tureen, make into a smooth, symmetrical 
mound, dust with white pepper, and serve. Or, when you have 
beaten the potato as light as possible, press it through a heated 
colander into a warm tureen; heap it up as light as possible and 
serve at once. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Choose potatoes of uniform size and smooth skin, wash well, using 
a brush, and be sure that they are absolutely clean even to the deepest 
ej'e. Wipe dry or drain, put the potatoes into a hot oven and do not 
allow the heat to diminish, but rather increase while they are baking. 
Serve as soon as done — which will require about half an hour if the 
potatoes are of a medium size — in an open dish ; if covered the steam 
will settle upon them, causing them to be soggy. Serve baked pota- 
toes for luncheon and tea. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Peel three or four large potatoes; rub them over a potato or cab- 
bage cutter to cut them in slices as thin as possible ; place in ice water 
until chilled, then fry in boiling lard or drippings until slightly col- 
ored, remove with a perforated skimmer, drain, and sprinkle with 
salt. Serve hot or cold. Fry only a few slices at a time. Three 
large potatoes fried will be sufficient for six or eight persons. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel the potatoes and put them in ice water for ten minutes; dry 
them with a clean cloth and peel them into ribbons, cutting round 
and round. Fry and drain; sprinkle with salt; serve hot as a gar- 
nish for beefsteak. 



The New Lucile Cook Book, 143 



LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Put two ounces of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted add 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; fry until slightly colored, add 
a tablespoonful more butter and a quart of cold boiled potatoes, peeled 
and sliced ; sprinkle with pepper and salt and stir gently until thor- 
oughly heated. 

HASHED POTATOES, BROWNED. 

Pare, wash and cut eight fine potatoes into small cubes, not more 
than half an inch square. Put these over the fire with two table- 
spoonfuls of minced celery and half as much grated onion. Salt to 
taste, and cook until tender but not broken ; drain off the water and 
turn the potatoes into a buttered dish. Have ready a cupful of hot 
milk, into which stir a large tablespoonful of butter rubbed into one 
of flour. Do not cook them together, but add a tablespoonful of 
finely-minced parsley, and pour over the potatoes. Cover and bake 
fifteen minutes, then brown upon the upper grating of your oven. 
Serve in the bake-dish. 

The celery and onion impart a most agreeable flavor to the dish. 



CREAMED POTATOES. 

The best result is obtained by using freshly-boiled potatoes, stew- 
ing or creaming them while warm. This, however, is rarely done, 
as for breakfast potatoes boiled the day before are usually to be 
warmed over. Chop the potatoes in small dice, and to every pint 
of potatoes make a pint of cream sauce as follows: Melt one table- 
spoonful of butter, add one tablespoonful of flour. Mix until smooth. 
Add two cupfuls of good milk, or, better, one cupful of milk and one 
of cream. Stir until the butter and flour are well mixed with the 
liquid, then add the potatoes. Put on the back part of the stove, 
and cook slowly, stirring only occasionally, and then with care, until 
the potatoes have nearly absorbed the milk. If stirred often or vigor- 
ously the potatoes will become mashed and pasty, yet care must be 
taken that the milk does not scorch. Season, just before serving, 
with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. If the salt 
be added to the potatoes before cooking in the milk it often curdles it. 



144 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



POTATOES A LA MAITRE D' HOTEL. 

Cut eight cold boiled potatoes into rather thick slices; put a tea- 
cupful of cream or milk, an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, and pepper and salt, into a saucepan on the stove ; add 
the sliced tomatoes; let boil up; remove to a hot dish and squeeze 
over the juice of one lemon. 

POTATO BORDER. 

One and one-half cupfuls of mashed potato, yolk of one egg. 

The mashed potato may be cold or warm, but in either case it 
should have been mashed with butter and milk as usual. Mix the 
potato with the egg yolk, beaten light, and season with salt and 
pepper. Press it into a well greased border mold and bake twenty 
minutes in a moderately hot oven. Let it stand in the mold for 
five or ten minutes before attempting to turn out. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of mashed potato, yolk of one egg, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream or milk, salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolk of the egg light and add to the mashed potato with 
the salt and pepper. Add the cream if necessary only, for if the 
mashed potato be sufficiently moist the cream will make it impossi- 
ble to handle. When well mixed form into small, flat, round cakes, 
and saute in hot fat or dripping. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One cupful of mashed potato, one egg, one teaspoonful of butter, 
one-half cupful of cream or milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the egg light without separating and melt the butter. Add 
to the mashed potato with the cream or milk. Season and beat un- 
til quite light. Fill greased popover pans half full of the mixture 
and brown in a quick oven. Take out carefully with a limber knife 
or spatula and serve at once on a heated dish. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes, scrubbing them well with a stiflf brush and 
wipe dry: place in a hot oven and bake for one hour if the potatoes 
are large; small ones will require less time. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 145 



SWEET POTATOES BOILED. 

Wash thoroughly and cook with the skins on in salted boiling 
water until easily pierced with a fork ; remove the skins ; put a piece 
of butter on each potato, set in the oven a moment and serve. 

SWEET POTATOES FRIED. 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in slices and fry in hot butter un- 
til nicely colored; sprinkle with salt and serve. 

TURNIPS. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Prepare by peeling and washing; cut into slices crosswise, and 
lay in fresh, cold water for a few moments. Put into salted, boiling 
water, and cook steadily until done; then drain and mash fine with a 
spoon or potato masher; season with pepper, salt and butter. It is 
better to mash on the side of the stove, in the pan or kettle in which 
they were cooked, that they may be served hot. 

Turnips may be served in the slices, with or without melted 
butter. 

YOUNG TURNIPS STEWED WITH CREAM. 

Pare, lay in cold water one hour; cook tender in two waters; 
drain and cover with hot cream (heated with a pinch of soda) or hot 
milk, if j^ou have no cream. Simmer gently for five minutes; stir in 
a white roux made by cooking together a tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour, salt and pepper, and serve very hot. 

FRIED TURNIPS. 

Peel and slice young turnips, dropping them into cold water as 
j'ou do so. Turn into a pot of boiling water, and cook for twenty 
minutes. Drain carefully, so as not to break the slices. When cold, 
dip each slice in beaten egg, then in salted cracker dust, and spread 
all upon a platter. Let them stand for an hour and fry in deep, boil- 
ing fat to a golden brown. 



146 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



ONIONS. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel off the outer skins, cutting off the top and bottom ; wash, and 
lay in cold water for fifteen minutes; put over to boil in cold water; 
boil fifteen minutes, drain, and cover with boiling water; put in a 
little salt. When tender, drain, put into a hot dish, sprinkle with 
pepper and bits of butter. Serve hot. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Peel the onions and cut them in thin slices; put them into a fry- 
ing-pan, with sufficient butter to keep them from sticking to the pan ; 
season with pepper and salt, and fry until well done and nicely 
browned. Fried onions will be more delicate if they are parboiled in 
milk and then fried. 

SAVORY ONIONS. 

Select young onions for this dish. Lay the onions in a saucepan 
with a very little salted water and simmer for ten minutes. Drain 
off the water ; pour over the onions a small cupful of beef stock and 
cook for ten minutes longer. With a split spoon remove the onions 
to a hot dish, while you thicken the gravy left in the pan with a 
lieaping teaspoonful of browned flour rubbed to a paste in the same 
quantity of butter. When you have a smooth brown sauce season it 
with a teaspoonful, each, of kitchen bouquet and tomato catsup, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour this sauce over the onions. 

PARSNIPS. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 
Wash the parsnips and scrape them ; boil in slightly salted water 
until very tender; drain, put two or three ounces of butter into the 
saucepan, in which fry the parsnips a nice brown ; season with pepper ; 
01 when cooked tender, drain and pour melted butter over them. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Wash and scrape the parsnips; boil until tender in salted water; 
cut into lengthwise; fry a nice brown in melted butter; or when 



The New Lucile Cook Book.. 147 

boiled tender, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker dust, and fry as 
before. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil the parsnips until tender ; mash fine, season with butter and 
pepper, and add a well-beaten egg and two tablespoonfuls of flour for 
every pint of mashed parsnips. When cold make into little cakes, 
roll in flour, and fry or saute in melted or hot drippings. 

PARSNIP STEW. 

Cut half a pound of fat salt pork, from which the rind has been 
lemoved, into narrow strips; parboil it for half an hour; put into a 
saucepan with ten or twelve good-sized parsnips, cut in small pieces, 
and sufficient hot water to cover; when half done, add half a dozen 
potatoes, which have been parboiled and then cut in quarters; boil 
very slowly until the vegetables are done; season with white and 
cayenne pepper, and salt if necessary. This is a very old-fashioned 
dish, but it is very good, and is usually liked by those who are fond 
of parsnips. 

QREEN CORN. 

BOILED GREEN CORN— Whole. 

Select the ears of sweet corn that are full grown ; break through 
the husks to see that they are not hardened but full of milk. Strip 
the husks from the ears, picking off all the threads of silk; then put 
over to cook in a kettle of boiling water, in which put a little salt. 
Be sure there is plenty of water to cover the corn well, that it may 
not become discolored in the boiling. About thirty minutes will be 
lequired for boiling. When done, drain off the water and send the 
corn to the table hot, covered closely with a napkin. Some prefer to 
boil the corn with the inner husks on, but I fail to discover any ad- 
vantage to be derived from that way. If preferred, after boiling on 
the cob, it may be cut off, placed in a saucepan with butter, pepper, 
salt, and a little cream or milk, heated and served hot. 

ROASTED GREEN CORN. 

Strip off the husks and remove all the silk. Hold the ear with a 
fork or roasting iron over a clear fire, and roast carefully without 



148 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



burning, turning so that each row of kernels may be well done. Pro- 
ceed the same with as many ears as may be required ; place them in a 
napkin on a plate in the oven; when all are done send to the table 
that they may be served while hot. It is to be eaten from the cob, 
each one seasoning it with butter, pepper, and salt to suit the taste. 
Roasted corn, seasoned when hot, is a nice accompaniment to a picnic 
lunch. 

GREEN CORN CAKES OR FRITTERS 

One pint of grated sweet corn, one pint of sweet milk, or a part 
sweet cream would be better, and three well-beaten eggs. Stir all 
together, beating hard. Season with a little white pepper, salt and 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter, stirring it well in and adding a little 
flour to make the ingredients adhere together, being careful not to 
have them too thick. Bake one on the griddle first to test the batter, 
that it may be of the right consistency, and well seasoned before 
baking to serve. If preferred, fry in hot drippings or lard. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut sweet corn from the cob, but not deep enough to get any of 
the husky casing; scrape the cob gently to get all of the sweet, juicy 
substance of the kernel. For two teacupfuls of the corn, one of Lima 
beans will be needed. Put both together into a saucepan with cold 
water enough to cover. Add a little salt and cook gently. When the 
beans are tender, pour in a teacupful of sweet milk or cream; season 
with butter and a little pepper and allow to boil up ; then send to the 
table. 

BEANS. 

BOILED STRING BEANS. 

You cannot destroy this dish more eiifectually than by "stringing" 
the beans in the slovenly manner practised by at least one-half of 
American cooks, or those who represent the American kitchen. The 
neatest way of ridding beans of backbones is to pare each the whole 
length with a sharp knife. The flavpr is more delicate when this is 
done. 

Lay a handful of the pods upon a board with the ends even, and 
cut through all into inch pieces. Wash and cook in boiling salted 



The New Lucile Cook Book, 149 



water until tender. Drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, and 
serve. 

Full-grown beans demand much more time for cooking than young. 
Underdone beans have a rank taste and are unwholesome. 

STEWED LIMA BEANS. 

Put a pint of shelled Lima beans into slightly salted boiling 
water, with one or two slices of onion. When tender, drain them 
and remove the onion ; now add two ounces of butter, enough hot 
water or stock to moisten the beans, and a little white pepper; allow 
to simmer ten or fifteen minutes, and serve. 

LIMA BEANS WITH CREAM. 

Cook the same as "Stewed Lima Beans" until you drain off the 
water, then add a cupful of hot milk or cream, a small piece of 
butter, and pepper to taste; let simmer a few minutes, and serve. Ripe 
Lima beans may be soaked over night and then cooked the same as 
green beans. 

BAKED BEANS WITH PORK. 

Look over, wash and put to soak over night a quart of dry beans. 
In the morning put over to boil in two quarts of cold water, boiling 
slowly half an hour; then drain off the water, putting on the same 
quantity as before, but it should be hot water ; boil half an hour, and 
pour off again; now put on enough hot water to a good deal more 
than cover the beans. Put half a pound of salt pork, which has been 
washed and the skin well scraped, into the kettle, and boil slowly until 
both are thoroughly cooked, adding water from time to time if neces- 
sary. Remove to a baking-pan, add pepper and salt if needed, and 
if liked a tablespoonful of molasses or sugar. Put the pork in the 
centre of the dish with the skin side, scored, up, and bake in a hot 
oven until both beans and pork are of a golden brown. When cold, 
baked beans should cut smooth and solid like cheese ; if they crumble, 
they have been baked too dry. 

TOMATOES. 

DRESSED TOMATOES. 

Select large, smooth, ripe tomatoes; peel and cut in rather thin 
slices; set on the ice or in a cold place for an hour or two; season 



I50 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



with butter, salt and oil ; or omit tlie oil, and use sugar instead. Pass 
vinegar when serving. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Peel eight large ripe tomatoes, those with thick meat preferred ; 
cut a thick slice off from the top ; scrape out the seed and watery 
pulp, which put in a saucepan with pepper and salt, a tablespoonful 
of butter, a teaspoonful of grated onion, half a teacupful of sifted 
bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of cold boiled tongue, minced fine, 
and a teacupful of cold boiled or baked lamb, chicken or veal, 
chopped ; let get well heated and mix thoroughly ; fill the tomatoes 
with this force-meat; put on the tops; arrange in a buttered pudding- 
dish and bake in a hot oven for one hour, the first half hour covered. 

FRIED RIPE TOMATOES. 

Cut firm tomatoes into thick slices, but do not peel them. Sprinkle 
each slice with salt, dip into a beaten egg and then in fine cracker 
dust. Set in a cold place for an hour and fry in boiling cottolene or 
other fat, or in butter. 

BROILED RIPE TOMATOES. 

Cut large, firm tomatoes into half-inch slices, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and dip in fine bread crumbs. Put into a greased broiler 
and broil over a clear fire until heated thoroughly. Spread with soft 
butter and serve at once. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes into a porcelain-lined or granite ware 
stew-pan ; then set on the back part of the range, where they will boil 
for half an hour; season with salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and half a teacupful of sifted 
cracker or bread crumbs. This is about the proportion of seasoning 
for a quart of stewed tomatoes. Green tomatoes may be stewed in 
the same way as ripe ones. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Peel a couple of tomatoes, which split into four pieces; remove 
the seeds, and cut them into small dice; then fry them with a little 




GE.T YOUR 
WISH! 

If wishes were bis- 
cuits you could Iiave 
your wish any meal in 
the daj-. Simply use 

Old 
Grist Mill 

Self-Raising 
Biscuit Flour. 

No worry, no bother, 
no failure. Every one 
you eat makes j'ou want 
another. Try them. 

Flour at Your 
Grocer's. 



Grist 
at<]offli 



Pleasant 
iicl satisfying as 
coffee without the 
possibility of bil- 
iousness, nervousness 
or dyspepsia result- 
ing from its use. It 
possessesnourishing 
qualities without the 
false stimulating ef- 
fects of real coffee. 
Easy to make, simply 

Boil hard 
5 minutes. 

When you try it and 
find how excellent it 
is you'll regret not 
having used it before. 

School Children 

feel better and work bet- 
ter after a cup of OKI 
Grist Mill for breakfast. 
Try it to-day. 



Acker, Merrall & Condit Company 



152 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

butter until nearly done, adding salt and pepper. Beat the eggs and 
mix the tomatoes with them, and make the omelet as usual. Or stew 
a few tomatoes in the usual way and spread over before folding. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH MEAT. 

Select large, firm tomatoes, cut off the tops and scoop out the 
inside pulp. Do not peel. Chop fine a cupful of cold meat — it may 
be fowl, tongue or ham, or even lamb, mutton or beef, if the latter 
are well seasoned. With the meat put a half cupful of fine bread 
crumbs, a tablespoonful of butter and salt, pepper, parsley and onion 
iuice. The quantity of these to be used must be determined by the 
amount of seasoning there is already in the meat. After sprinkling 
the inside of the tomato shells with a very little salt and pepper fill 
them with the mixture of meat, crumbs, etc. If this seems too dry it 
may be moistened with a small quantity of gravy or soup stock, or 
even with milk or cream. Arrange the tomatoes in a pudding-dish, 
replace the tops, lay a cover over them and bake half an hour. Serve 
in the dish in which they were cooked. 

STEWED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Take good-sized green tomatoes before they begin to ripen ; wash, 
cut in slices half an inch thick, and put into a hot spider in which a 
generous lump of butter has been melted. Sprinkle with butter and 
salt. Cook until tender and serve hot, with sugar and vinegar, or 
plain as preferred. I cannot say as I consider this very wholesome, 
but I know of those that are very fond of tomatoes cooked in this 
way when it is still early in the season for them. 

ASPARAGUS. 

The proper way to cook asparagus is not generally known. Cut it 
fairly short, put in a deep pot, having scraped it and tied it in small 
bundles. Stand these upright in the boiling water with the heads an 
inch or so above the water. Boil until soft. If done in this way it 
will be found much better, and the heads will be perfectly cooked 
without being mushy, as is often the case when the bundles are al- 
lowed to float loosely around in the water. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 153 



ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Cut the woody part from a bunch of asparagus, and with a soft 
piece of twine tie it into a loose bundle. Have ready, boiling, enough 
salted water to cover the asparagus. The saucepan containing this 
should be large enough to allow the asparagus to lie at full length. 
Boil until tender, but not until the green tips begin to break. Spread 
upon a platter crustless slices of buttered toast; drain the asparagus, 
and lay it in a neat pile upon the toast. Of course the string must 
be removed from the bundle. Just before sending to the table pour 
a white sauce over the asparagus. An excellent plan is to pour this 
sauce only over the green ends of the stalks, leaving the white ends 
uncovered, that the fingers need not be soiled in handling the vege- 
table. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS. 

Reject the lower halves of your asparagus stalks and boil the 
upper halves until they are very tender. Then drain and chop. Cook 
together a tablespoonful of butter and two of flour until they bubble, 
pour on them a pint of milk with a bit of soda dissolved in it. Stir 
until smooth and of the consistency of cream, add the minced aspar- 
agus, with salt and pepper to taste. Set this mixture aside until cool, 
then beat into it three well-whipped eggs and two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Pour into a greased pudding-dish and bake covered for 
twenty minutes; uncover and brown. 

ASPARAGUS WITH EGGS. 

Boil a bunch of asparagus twenty minutes ; cut off the tender tops 
and lay in a deep pie-plate, buttering, salting and peppering well. 
Beat four eggs just enough to break up the yolks, add a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, with pepper and salt, and pour upon the asparagus. 
Bake eight minutes in a quick oven and serve immediately. 

BANANAS FRIED WHOLE. 

Peel and cut off the tip at each end ; sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, roll in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, again in egg, and again 
crumb them. Leave them upon ice for an hour or two, and fry in 
deep, boiling cottolene or other fat to a delicate brown. Serve very 
hot. 



154 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



EGO PLANT. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant into slices nearly three-quarters of an inch 
thick, peel these and lay them in a bowl of cold, salted water, putting 
a plate on them to keep them under the surface of the liquid. At the 
end of an hour remove the vegetables from the water and wipe dry 
on a clean cloth. Dip each slice in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs 
rnd lay on a platter. Set in the icebox for an hour and fry to a golden 
brown in deep boiling cottolene or other fat. Drain in a colander 
lined with tissue paper and pile on a folded napkin on a hot platter. 

BROILED EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant in slices half an inch thick, peel and leave foi 
an hour in cold, salted water, as in the preceding recipe. Wipe the 
slices dr}^ and lay in a bath of five tablespoonfuls of salad oil and two 
feaspoonfuls of vinegar. At the end of fifteen minutes remove the 
egg plant, drain in a colander, sprinkle each slice with salt and pepper, 
lay on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire. Cook for five minutes 
on one side before turning the broiler. Serve very hot. 

EGG PLANT, ASHANTEE. 

Cut into even halves three very small, sound egg plants. Make a 
few incisions inside each piece without disturbing the peels. Then 
gently drop them in boiling fat and fry for eight minutes. Remove 
them with a skimmer and let drain on a towel for ten minutes again 
with cut parts downward. Then with a teaspoon scoop out all the 
meat and mince it fine. Chop finely six small new onions and fry in 
a saucepan with half a teaspoonful of butter for one minute. Then 
add the scooped-out chopped meat, with a tablespoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley. 

BOILED GREEN PEAS. 

Shell and lay in cold water for ten minutes. Drain, turn into 
slightly salted boiling water and cook for about twenty-five minutes, 
or until very tender, but not broken. Drain in a colander, put into a 
dish, stir into the peas a lump of butter, and sprinkle very lightly with 
salt and pepper. 



The New Lucile Cook. Book. 155 

CANNED PEAS. 

Empty the peas from the can into an open dish, an hour before 
you wish to cook them, that there may be no unpleasant odor about 
them ; put them into a saucepan on the stove, with enough hot water 
to barely cover them ; simmer fifteen minutes, and season the same as 
fresh, green peas. 

GREEN PEA PANCAKES. 

Boil a pint of shelled peas, and mash while hot, adding a table- 
spoonful of butter and salt and pepper to taste. Now beat in two 
whipped eggs, a half pint of milk and five tablespoonfuls of prepared 
flour. Beat hard and fry on a hot griddle. A soapstone griddle is 
best. Then they are baked — not fried. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Squash is better to be steamed, boiled or baked in the shell, as it 
will be much dryer. 

Wash the squash and wipe dry; cut in pieces, according to the 
size of the squash ; remove the inside, and cook until tender ; then 
scrape off the shell, mash smooth, and season with butter, a little 
sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Do this quickly, and over the stove 
as much as possible, so that it may be served hot. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Many people do not pare summer squash, but it is better to do so, 
and also to remove the seeds. Put to cook in salted boiling water. 
When tender, remove from the saucepan, and press out every drop 
of water; mash smooth and season with pepper and salt, and butter. 
Serve very hot. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Peel, boil and mash two small squashes. When cold, beat in two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two whipped eggs, a gill of cream 
and salt and pepper to taste. Turn into a greased bake-dish, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and bake for a half hour. A good way to use 
squash left over from yesterday. 

CREAMED SQUASH. 

Peel two summer squashes and cut into dice of uniform size. Boil 
for fifteen minutes in salted water, or until tender, but not broken. 



156 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

Drain carefully in a colander and keep hot while you cook together 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of butter and the same quantity of flour 
until they bubble ; then pour upon them a cupful and a half of sweet 
milk. Stir until smooth ; turn in the squash dice, season liberally with 
salt and white pepper, and serve. 

CREAMED YOUNG BEETS. 

Cook with two inches of the stem on to prevent bleeding, and do 
not clip the tap root. Have ready a cupful of cream heated with a 
pinch of soda. Rub the skins off, top and tail the beets, and slice them 
thin into the cream, setting the saucepan containing it in boiling 
water. When all are in, stir in a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into 
one of flour, pepper, salt and a teaspoonful, each, of sugar and onion 
juice. Simmer two minutes to cook the flour, and dish. 

BOILED CARROTS. 

Carrots should be used in the early part of their season, and when 
they are fresh and firm. Wash thoroughly, scraping the skin all off, 
put into boiling hot water, in which there should be a little salt; 
boil until tender; drain, cut through lengthwise; or slice o£E in round, 
thin slices; put into a hot dish and sprinkle with pepper and bits of 
butter. A little vinegar may be served with them. Instead of being 
cooked whole, they may be chopped fine before boiling, then served 
as above. 

CARROTS SAUTES. 

Boil young carrots, not longer than your forefinger, for eight min- 
utes in salted water. Rub and scrape off the skins ; cover with boiling 
water and cook tender. Drain, lay for a minute in cold water until 
you can handle them, and cut each carrot in two, each half into strips. 
Heat a tablespoonful of butter in a frj'ing-pan with a half teaspoonful 
of white sugar, a little salt and pepper, and when it boils lay in the 
strips of carrot. Cook three minutes after the bubble recommences; 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, toss about for one minute, drain and 
serve hot. 

TO DRESS CUCUMBERS. 

Pare, and lay in cold water (ice water, if possible) for an hour; 
slice very thin; sprinkle a little fine salt over each piece; let stand 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 157 

an hour ; shake the dish briskly ; drain closely ; cover with good, sharp 
vinegar, and add a dash of pepper and serve. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. ' 

Pare two or three large cucumbers, cut them into slices one-fourth 
of an inch thick. Drain them on a cloth, season with pepper and salt ; 
dredge with flour, and fry in a little hot butter until nicely browned ; 
pile lightly in a dish and serve. Fried cucumbers are often served as 
a garnish for beefsteak. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Cut good-sized young cucumbers into halves, lengthwise, and 
remove the seeds. Fill the hollows thus left with a force-meat made 
of equal parts of chopped roast beef and minced boiled ham, with half 
as much fine bread crumbs. Moisten this stuffing with melted butter 
and season to taste. Place the halves of each cucumber carefully to- 
gether and tie with soft twine. Place in a roasting-pan, pour about 
them a cupful of skimmed beef stock, and cook until tender. Remove 
the strings, transfer the cucumbers to a hot platter, thicken the gravy 
left in the pan and pour it about them. This is a Syrian recipe. 

CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Select a medium-sized, firm, white, sweet, crisp head of cabbage; 
remove the outer leaves; cut in quarters and wash, examining care- 
fully to see that there are no insects; let stand half an hour in cold 
water ; and then put to cook in a kettle of boiling water ; when it has 
boiled fifteen minutes pour off the water and fill the kettle again with 
salted boiling water; allow to boil thirty minutes from the time it 
was first put into the kettle. Take the cabbage from the water into 
a colander ; remove the heart and all fibrous portions ; press out every 
drop of water possible ; put the cabbage into a saucepan on the range ; 
add salt and white pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and, if you like, half a teacupful of good cider 
vinegar; allow to get very hot, stirring enough to distribute the. sea- 
soning. Serve in a hot dish. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs. 



158 The New Lucile Cook Book.. 



BAKED CABBAGE. 

Boil cabbage tender in two waters, drain and set aside until cold, 
then chop fine. Mix together two beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful of salt and 
a dash of paprika. Stir this into the chopped cabbage and put it into 
a buttered pudding-dish. Sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and 
bake until brown. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

CAULIFLOWER BOILED WHOLE. 

Choose a fine, white head for this purpose. Put it, flower down- 
ward, into ice-cold salted water for half an hour. Tie, then, in coarse 
cheese cloth or netting, and plunge, head foremost, into a pot of boil- 
ing salted water. Cook half an hour, drain, take of? the cloth and 
dish. Pour a rich white sauce over it. 

CELERY. 

Let the roots be scraped ; remove all the decayed and outside 
leaves; wash thoroughly, carefully removing all specks and blemishes. 
If the stalks are large divide them lengthwise into two or three 
pieces and place roots downward in a celery glass, which should be 
nearly full of cold v^-ater. The top leaves may be curled by shredding 
them in narrow strips with the point of a clean skewer. 

STEWED CELERY— A la Creme. 

Boil six heads of celery in salted water until tender. Put half a 
pint of cream and a blade of mace into a saucepan on the range ; shake 
the saucepan over the fire until the cream thickens; dish the celery; 
pour the sauce over it, and serve. Stewed celery may also be served 
with white sauce, or with asparagus on toast, with melted butter 
poured over it. It is delicious in either way. 

KOHLRABI WITH LEAVES. 

Remove the outer leaveii from the swelled stalk, or turnip; wash 
thoroughly and throw into cold water. Drain both and put them on 
to boil in separate vessels of salted water. When the turnips have 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 159 



cooked for ten minutes, drain and pour over them fresh boiling water, 
to which a tablespoonful of vinegar has been added. Boil for ten 
minutes longer; drain, scrape and slice. Dip the slices, one by one, in 
melted butter and lay about the edge of a hot platter. Drain the 
leaves which have been cooked tender, turn into a chopping bowl and 
chop very fine. Return to the fire with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. Beat to a smoking mass, and heap in the 
centre of the heated platter, about the edge of which you have laid 
the sliced vegetable. 

BOILED BROCCOLI. 

Take off the outside leaves and cut the inside ones off level with 
the flower; look over carefully and cut off the stalk close at the bot- 
tom; put into cold salted water, heads downward, for half an hour. 
Put into a saucepan with boiling salted water — a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of salt to half a gallon of water — and boil quickly over a clear 
fire. Remove from the kettle the moment it is done ; drain, pour over 
il a little melted butter, and serve. 

BOILED BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Pick over and wash nicely; put to cook in a saucepan of salted 
boiling water; keep the pan uncovered and boil briskly until tender; 
drain, pour over them a little melted butter seasoned with pepper, and 
serve. 

BOILED SEA KALE. 

Prepare the kale for cooking, by looking over carefully, removing 
wilted or imperfect leaves, and washing thoroughly in at least two 
waters; tie in bunches, put it into boiling salted water, and boil 
quickly until tender ; drain, untie the bunches, and serve with melted 
butter or white sauce. If dressed with melted butter, a little vinegar 
or lemon juice may be added. 

STEWED SEA KALE. 

Prepare as for boiling; parboil it in salted water, and then stew- 
it for half an hour in good brown gravy; pour into a good warm 
vegetable dish and serve. 

OKRA. 

Select young, tender pods; boil in a tin or porcelain saucepan, in 
a little slightly salted water, until tender; drain, season with butter, 



i6o The New Lucile Cook Book. 



pepper and salt; stir until well mixed with the seasoning and thor- 
oughly heated. 

OKRA AND TOMATO. 

Slice 3'Oung, tender pods crosswise; peel and slice enough ripe to- 
matoes to make one-third as much by measure as you have of the 
sliced okra; slice one or two green peppers, and stew with the okra 
and tomato ; when cooked, season with butter and salt and serve. 

DANDELIONS. 

About a peck of dandelion leaves will be required for a pint when 
cooked. Look each leaf over carefully and after washing well in 
several waters, lay them in cold water for twenty minutes. Put over 
to cook in an abundance of boiling water; put in a tablespoonful of 
salt and cook from thirty to forty minutes. They will require a 
longer time if the leaves are not tender. When done, put into a 
colander, drain and press out all the water ; return to the stove in a 
saucepan ; season with a little pepper and a teaspoonful of butter. Cut 
through with a sharp knife and mix thoroughly. Put in a hot dish 
and garnish, if liked, with slices of cold hard-boiled eggs. Serve with 
vinegar. Some prefer to boil a small piece of fat salt pork, well 
washed, with the dandelions, putting it in when the water is changed. 
Dandelions make very nice greens and are considered very whole- 
some, but can rarely be obtained outside of rural districts. They cer- 
tainly should be as marketable as spinach. 

STEWED ENDIVE. 
Look over carefully and see that there are no insects. Wash 
thoroughly in plenty of water; put into slightly salted boiling water 
for fifteen minutes; drain and press the water all out; chop very fine. 
Put into a stew-pan with a pint of good stock for every six heads of 
endive; boil until perfectly tender. When done thicken the gravy 
with two tablespoon fuls of flour rubbed smooth in half as much but- 
ter; add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and a small lump of sugar; 
boil up and serve. 

CURLED CRESS. 

Those having a garden will find a satisfaction in having a small 
bed of curled cress. It is very nice for a relish at tea, for soups and 
for garnishing, and may be used in other ways which will suggest 



The New Lucile Cook Book. i6i 



themselves to the housewife. For tea, separate the leaves; look over 
carefully, wash, shake out the water, and place on a plate with the 
stems pointing toward the centre. Fill the plate quite full and put a 
little cold water in it ; send to the table and eat with salt. This makes 
an agreeable looking dish, as well as an appetizing one. 

STEWED SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

Wash and scrape ; slice thin and put immediately into cold water, 
in which there is a tablespoonful of vinegar; this will prevent them 
from turning dark. Put to cook in boiling salted water, allowing a 
pint of water for a pint of the cut salsify. When tender, add a tea- 
cupful of sweet cream, or milk, a tablespoonful of butter — two if you 
use milk — and a little white pepper. Let simmer two or three min- 
utes. Have ready in a tureen some slices of toasted bread cut in quar- 
ters; add the stewed salsify and serve. It may be necessary to add 
m.ore water to the salsify before seasoning, as the toast will absorb 
a good deal of the liquor and it should not be at all dry. The sea- 
soning in this recipe is intended for a quart of the sliced root after it 
is cooked. 

YRltD SALSIFY. 

Wash, scrape, cut lengthwise, and throw into floured water (as 
directed above) until the whole quantity is prepared; then put into 
boiling water with a little salt, and cook until nearly tender. Drain 
off the water and dip the piece into beaten egg, then in cracker dust, 
and fry to a delicate brown in hot butter, seasoned with pepper and 
salt. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

Boil the salsify very tender and mash smooth ; season with pepper, 
salt, butter and cream ; add a tablespoonful of flour and a well-beaten 
egg, for a pint of mashed salsify. When cold, make into small cakes, 
roll in flour and fry in hot butter or drippings. 

SPINACH. 

Look over each leaf carefully, rejecting the wilted or discolored 
ones. Wash thoroughly, changing the water until satisfied the grit 
is all removed ; then allow it to lie a while in cold water. Put into 
salted boiling water and boil from twenty to thirty minutes. Drain, 
cut into coarse pieces with a sharp knife, put into a hot dish, sprinkle 



i62 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



with a little pepper and fine bits of butter. Set in a warming oven a 
few minutes; garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs; serve a piece 
with a spinach to each, also vinegar should be passed with it. Many 
like spinach chopped very fine, but I think it is more agreeable in taste 
and appearance if cut or chopped coarse. 

SPINACH DRESSED WITH CREAM. 

Boil two pailfuls of spinach ; press out the water ; chop fine and 
put it into a saucepan with two ounces of butter; allow to simmer, 
stir until the butter is well mixed with the spinach; add half a tea- 
cupful of cream, previously heated, that it may not curdle, a small 
teaspoonful of sugar, and a very little grated nutmeg. Serve on a 
warm dish and garnish with croutons or slices of hard-boiled egg. 

FRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Melt a great spoonful of butter in an agate frying-pan. Peel the 
mushrooms and cut off their stems, scraping the latter. Lay the 
mushrooms with their scraped stalks in the frying-pan and cook, turn- 
ing often, until done. Serve very hot. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

Peel very large mushrooms and cut off their stems. Grease a 
shallow pudding-dish and put a layer of mushrooms, under sides up- 
ward, into this. Into each mushroom pour a few drops of melted 
butter. Do not put more than two layers in the dish. Bake, closely 
covered, in a quick oven until tender. This should be in about twenty 
minutes. When done, remove the cover, pour melted butter over the 
mushrooms, and serve very hot in the dish in which they were cooked. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Chop rather coarsely the remains of vegetables left from a boiled 
dinner, such as cabbage, parsnips, potatoes, etc., sprinkle over them 
a little pepper; place in a saucepan or frying-pan over the fire; put 
in a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut ; when it begins to melt, 
tip the dish so as to oil the bottom, and around the sides; then put in 
the chopped vegetables; pour in a spoonful or two of hot water from 
the tea-kettle; cover quickly so as to keep in the steam. When 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 163 



heated thoroughly take off the cover and stir occasionally until well 
cooked. Serve hot. Persons fond of vegetables will relish this dish 
very much. 

VEGETABLE OMELET. 

Make a puree by mashing up ready-dressed vegetables, together 
with a little milk, cream or gravy, and some seasoning. The most 
suitable vegetables are cucumbers, artichokes, onions, sorrel, green 
peas, tomatoes, lentils, mushrooms, asparagus tops, potatoes, truffles 
or turnips. Prepare some eggs by beating them very light. Pour 
them into a nice hot frying-pan, containing a spoonful of butter; 
spread the puree upon the upper side; and when perfectly hot, turn 
or fold the omelet together and serve. Or cold vegetables may be 
merely chopped small, then tossed in a little butter, and some beaten 
and seasoned eggs poured over. 

RICE. 

BOILED RICE. 

Into three pints of hot salted water, when at a fast boil, throw 
half a cupful of raw rice, previously washed and picked over. Keep 
it at a furious boil for twenty minutes, when test a grain to see if it 
is done. If it is soft, drain away every drop of water; set the un- 
covered pot at the back of the range for two minutes to dry off the 
rice, and serve. Not a spoon should touch it while cooking, and 
each grain should be whole and apart from the rest. 

This, the one and only way to boil rice properly, is also the easiest. 
Shake the saucepan up three times while the rice is in cooking, to 
make sure it does not clog. 

Serve in a hot, uncovered dish. Eat with butter, salt and pepper. 

" MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI. 

Grate Gruyere cheese on macaroni, 
Make the top crisp, but not too bony. 

Do not wash macaroni, but wipe it well with a clean, dry towel ; 
put it to cook in plenty of salted boiling water ; the length of time re- 
quired for cooking it will vary with the age and kind of macaroni, 
the large tubes will require about twenty-five minutes ; when the maca- 



164 Till' New Lucile Cook Book. 



roni is tender enough to break easily, it is done, and should be re- 
moved from the saucepan into a large pan containing cold water ; stir 
il about briskly until each little tube is entirely separated from the 
mass. It can now be heated with butter enough for seasoning, and a 
dressing of cheese. Onions previously fried in butter till a nice brown, 
with tomatoes, minced meats or mushrooms, or a white or brown 
gravy may be added to it. 

AN ITALIAN COOK'S MACARONI. 

Slice, very thin, one ordinary-sized onion and one carrot; put in 
a pot with one tablespoonful of butter, and let it fry for a little while; 
then put in the pot two pounds of tender, juicy beef, that has been 
cut in rather thick slices. Stir it about until it has browned nicely, 
then add one quart of tomatoes, two bay leaves, three cloves, pepper 
and salt to taste. Let it stew slowly for two hours or more, so that 
the sauce gets thick. Then strain it through a sieve until all the 
sauce is free from the meat. Take one pound of macaroni and boil it 
for twenty minutes in water salted to taste. Drain off the water and 
put it in a large deep dish, pour over it the sauce and put in a half 
pound of grated Swiss cheese. Mix all thoroughly, and serve hot. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI. 

Into boiling salted water put one-half pound of spaghetti, boil 
twenty minutes or until soft; drain and let cold water run through 
it, to keep it from becoming pasty. 

Into a baking dish put a layer of spaghetti, then two or three 
tablespoonfuls of "White Sauce" (made with a cup and one-half of 
hot milk, one tablespoonful of butter, and one heaping tablespoonful 
of flour) ; add two or three tablespoonfuls of stewed tomatoes — repeat 
this until the dish is filled — over the top put half cup of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Cook in the oven until the cheese is well browned. 

SPAGHETTI WITH CHICKEN. 

Slice four ordinary-sized onions; cook them slowly in butter until 
very tender ; add to the onions one quart of tomatoes ; stew one 
chicken and pick it into small pieces; add enough of the gravy to 
make one quart; pour this with the tomatoes and onions; let all cook 
together fifteen minutes. Into a kettle of boiling water put two 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 165 



pounds of spaghetti, with one handful of salt, and allow it to boil 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain off water and place a layer of 
spaghetti on a platter; over this throw some of the gravy or sauce 
already made, and sprinkle grated cheese. Do this alternately until 
all the ingredients are used. Parmesan cheese is the best. 

This will make enough for twelve people. By simply warming, 
h is quite as good the second day. 



1 66 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

TO SERVE BUTTER. 

Nothing adds more to the appearance of the table than the golden 
ball of perfectly sweet butter. With prime or gilt-edge butter, per- 
fect bread or rolls, and delicious coffee the most fastidious epicure 
may breakfast royally. 

Table butter, wrapped in dampened cheesecloth squares, keeps 
sweet and firm. 

Butter, made into balls for the table, should be kept in a bowl of 
cold water in the refrigerator and the water changed every morning. 

BONNY-CLABBER. 

The milk should sour and thicken quickly for this dish. Pour the 
sour milk, before it thickens, into a glass dish. When thick, set on 
ice. Serve cold with sugar and cream. It is a nice addition to a 
luncheon or supper table. 

DEVONSHIRE CREAM. 

The milk should stand twenty-four hours in cold weather, but 
twelve hours will be sufficient in warm weather; set the pan of new 
milk over a kettle of hot water until quite hot — the more slowly it 
heats the better ; when it is done, small rings will begin to appear on 
the surface; set it in the milk room until the next day, then remove 
the cream. Devonshire cream is very delicious eaten with fresh fruits. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Set a pan of sour loppered milk over a kettle of hot water, and 
heat slowly until the curd and whey separate. (Do not let the water 
get boiling hot ; as the milk will heat too quickly and it will make the 
milk tough.) Then drain well in a cloth; turn out the curd in an 
earthen dish ; season to taste with a little salt and butter ; a little milk 
or sweet cream may be added until moist enough. If the draining 
bag is not likely to allow the cheese to become dry enough to require 
the cream, give it a few light squeezes, as the milk or cream is a great 
improvement. Stir the seasoning in well and form into small balls 
with the hands, or serve in one mold. Put in a cool place. This is 
very delicious for the tea or lunch table, and is best when first made. 



New York Telephone : 30 Madison Sq. Organized in 1842 

Brooklyn Telephone: 1762 Prospect Incorporated in May, I860 

Harlem Telephone 2495 



Orange County Milk 
Association 



MANUFACTURERS 
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 



Consumers Condensed Milk 



CONDENSED AND EVAPORATED MILK 



ALSO BOTTLERS OF STRICTLY PURE FRESH MILK 



146 and 148 West 25th Street 
NEW YORK 



BROOKLYN OFFICE : HARLEM OFFICE : 

421-423 Classon Avenue 104-106 East 126th Street 



1 68 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



PRESERVES. 

CANNING RED RASPBERRIES. 

Fill the jars with fruit, shaking down well (but do not crush). 
Adjust covers and rubbers, and place in a kettle of cold water in the 
same manner as explained. Then bring to boiling point, and boil 
until the steam will issue from the jar of fruit when opened. Lift 
from the kettle, and fill to the brim with a hot (boiling) syrup made 
in proportion of one cup of sugar, half a cup of water, and, for a 
pint can of raspberries, add one tablespoonful of currant juice. The 
currant juice gives the berries such a rich flavor that those canned 
without it seem flat in comparison. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

For every pound of fruit weigh a pound of granulated sugar, put 
them with the sugar over the fire in a porcelain kettle, bring to a boil 
slowly about twenty minutes. Take them out carefully with a per- 
forated skimmer, and fill your hot jars nearly full; boil the juice a 
few minutes longer, and fill up the jars; seal them hot. Keep in a 
cool, dry place. 

TO PRESERVE BERRIES WHOLE. 

Buy the fruit when not too ripe, pick over immediately, wash if 
absolutely necessary and put in glass jars, filling each one about two- 
thirds full. 

Put in the preserving kettle a pound of sugar and one cupful of 
water for every two pounds of fruit, and let it come slowly to a boil. 
Pour this syrup into the jars over the berries, filling them up to the 
brim ; then set the jars in a pot of cold water on the stove and let the 
water boil and the fruit become scalding hot. Now take them out 
and seal perfectly tight. If this process is followed thoroughly, the 
fruit will keep for several years. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Take large, ripe cherries; weigh them, and to each pound allow 
a pound of sugar. Stone the cherries (opening them with a sharp 
knife), and save the juice that comes from them in the process. As 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 169 



you stone them, throw them into a large pan or tureen, and strew- 
about half the sugar over them, and let them lie in it an hour or two 
after they are all stoned. Then put them into a preserving kettle with 
the remainder of the sugar, and boil and. skim them till the fruit is 
clear and the syrup thick. 

TO CAN CHERRIES IN COLD WATER. 

Select perfect fruit, wash; pick off stems; pack in jars and let cold 
water run into the same until they will hold no more and the air all 
bubbles out. Dry and put on lids; cover with paper bag; set in a 
dark, cool place until wanted for use. 

PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 

The cranberries must be large and ripe. Wash them, and to six 
quarts of cranberries allow nine pounds of the best loaf sugar. Take 
three quarts of the cranberries and put them into a stew-pan with a 
pint and a half of water. Cover the pan and boil or stew them until 
they are all in pieces. Then squeeze the juice through a jelly bag. 
Put the sugar into a preserving kettle, pour the cranberry juice over 
it and let it stand until it is all melted, stirring it up frequently. Then 
place the kettle over the fire and put in the remaining three quarts of 
whole cranberries. Let them boil till they are tender, clear and of a 
bright color, skimming them frequently. When done put them warm 
into jars with the syrup, which should be like a thick jelly. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Allow pound for pound. Pare half the oranges and cut the rind 
into shreds. Boil in three waters until tender and set aside. Grate 
the rind of the remaining oranges ; take off and throw away every bit 
of the thick, white inner skin; quarter all the oranges and take out 
the seeds. 

Chop or cut them into small pieces; drain all the juice that will 
come away without pressing them, over the sugar. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 

Twist off the top and bottom, and pare off the rough outside of 
pineapples ; then weigh them and cut them in slices, chips or quarters, 
or cut them in four or six, and shape each piece like a whole pine- 



I70 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

apple; to each pound of fruit put a teacupful of water; put it in a 
preserving kettle, cover it and set it over the fire, and let them boil 
gently until they are tender and clear ; then take them from the water 
by sticking a fork in the centre of each slice, or with a skimmer into 
a dish. 

Put to the water white sugar, a pound for each pound of fruit; 
stir until it is all dissolved ; then put in the pineapple, cover the kettle, 
and let them boil gently until transparent throughout ; when it is so, 
take it out, let it cool, and put it in glass jars; let the syrup boil or 
simmer gently until it is thick and rich, and when nearly cool pour it 
over the fruit. The next day secure the jars, as before directed. 

Pineapple done in this way is a beautiful and delicious preserve. 
The usual manner of preserving it, by putting it into the syrup with- 
out first boiling it, makes it little better than sweetened leather. 

BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Select large, yellow peaches ; pare them ; cook them until clear in 
a syrup made of a pound of loaf sugar for every pound of peaches 
and water enough to dissolve the sugar ; take the fruit from the syrup 
and put it into glass cans; then boil the syrup until quite thick; add 
a quart of the best white brandy for eight pounds of peaches; pour 
over the peaches hot; seal the glass jars, and store in a cool, dark 
place. Pears and plums may be brandied in the same way; berries 
require only half as much sugar and brandy. 

BRANDIED CHERRIES. 

Select perfectly sound fruit, firm and not too ripe ; wipe dry with 
a soft cloth, and snip the stems from each one quite close to the fruit ; 
a very tiny bit of the stem should be left on the fruit, and the pit 
should not be removed. Pound and sift two pounds of loaf sugar for 
each pint of brandy used, and when the sugar is dissolved, pour the 
brandy over the cherries, covering them completely; cork closely to 
keep out the air, and run melted wax around the top. When about 
to use, the pit may be removed carefully from one side of the cherry, 
and the stem removed. They are useful in making salads of mixed 
fruits, are good with cheese salads; they may also be used in a mix- 
ture of frozen fruits. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Boil one barrel of new cider down half, peel and core three bushels 
of good cooking apples ; when the cider has boiled to half the quantity, 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 171 



add the apples, and when soft stir constantly for from eight to ten 
hours. If done it will adhere to an inverted plate. Put away in 
stone jars (not earthenware), covering first with writing paper cut 
to fit the jar, and press down closely upon the apple butter; cover the 
whole with thick brown paper snugly tied down. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Quarter without peeling or coring them, tart, juicy apples. Drop 
the apples, as you cut them, into cold water. When all are done put 
the fruit, with the moisture upon it, in the preserving kettle, and 
simmer very gently until the juice flows freely. Boil slowly until the 
apples are tender and broken. Turn, a little at a time, into a flannel 
jelly-bag, and allow the juice to drip through. If the bag is squeezed 
the jelly will be cloudy. Measure the juice, and to each pint of it 
allow a pound of granulated sugar. Put the sugar in pans in the 
oven to heat. Return the juice to the fire and boil for twenty min- 
utes; skim it, pour into it the sugac and stir until this is dissolved, 
bring again to the boil, and remove the kettle from the fire. Set jelly 
glasses on a wet cloth to prevent tneir cracking, and fill at once. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Ten pounds of ripe, yellow quinces; wash clean, pare, and core 
them, and cut them in small pieces. To each pound of quinces, allow 
half a pound of white sugar ; put the parings and cores into a kettle, 
with enough water to cover them, boil slowly until quite soft, then 
having put the quinces with the sugar into a porcelain kettle, strain 
over them, through a cloth, the liquid from the parings, and cover; 
boil the whole over a clear fire until it becomes quite smooth and 
thick, keeping it covered except when you are skimming it, and watch- 
ing and stirring closely to prevent sticking at the bottom ; when cold 
put in glass jars. 

GREEN GAGE PRESERVES. 

When the fruit is ripe wipe clean, and to one pound of fruit put 
one-quarter pound of sugar, which will make a fine syrup; boil the 
fruit until it is perfectly done, in this syrup ; then make a fresh syrup 
of one pound of fruit to one pound of sugar ; moisten the sugar with 
water; when the syrup boils put in the fruit and leave for fifteen min- 



72 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



iitcs; then put the fruit in jars; boil tlic syrup until thick, and when 
only milk-warm pour it over the fruit; tie the jars tightly and keep in 
a warm place. 

PRESERVED GINGER ROOT. 

Peel the green ginger roots and lay in cold water for fifteen min- 
utes, then boil, changing the w^ater twice, until very tender. Drain the 
ginger and weigh it before laying it in iced water. Allow a pound 
and a quarter of sugar to each pound of ginger. Wet each pound of 
sugar with a cup of water and put the sugar and water into the pre- 
serving kettle. Boil and skim until the scum ceases to rise, then re- 
move the syrup from the fire and set aside until cold. Wipe each 
piece of ginger and lay it in the cold syrup. Stand for twenty-four 
hours, drain the ginger and reheat. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Peel, stone and weigh firm white peaches, allowing to each pound 
of fruit a pound of white sugar. Arrange fruit and sugar in alternate 
layers in a broad preserving kettle, and set the kettle at the side of 
the stove where the contents will heat slowly. Stew for about half 
an hour after the preserves come to a boil, or until the peaches are 
tender when pierced by a fork. With a perforated skimmer take the 
peaches from the syrup, and spread them on a platter while you boil 
the syrup until clear and thick, skimming often. Pack the fruit in 
jars, fill these to overflowing with the boiling liquid, and seal im- 
mediately. Stand the jars in a pan of hot water while filling them. 

PRESERVED CITRON RIND. 

Peel and cut the rind into pieces of uniform size, rejecting all the 
seeds. Lay the rind in salted water for two hours, then drain and lay 
in cold fresh water for six or seven hours, changing the water three 
times during that period. Drain, put the citron on to boil in a gallon 
of water, to which you have added two teaspoonfuls of alum. Stew 
until tender, drain, and lay in cold water. 

Make a thick syrup of sugar and ^ " and when it boils cook 
the rind in it for fifteen minutes. Remove the rind, pack in jars, add 
to the syrup in the kettle enough lemon juice and ginger root to 
flavor it. 

When very thick, fill tlie jars with the boiling syrup, and seal. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 173 



TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Scald and peel ripe tomatoes; sprinkle over them their weight in 
sugar, and let them stand over night. In the morning pour off the 
liquid and boil to a thick syrup; add the tomatoes and boil until they 
look clear and seem well cooked ; the time required will depend upon 
their size ; cook with them, sliced thin, a lemon to each pound of the 
tomatoes. Put in a jar and, when cold, cover close. 

WATERMELON RIND PRESERVES. 

Remove the outside rind of the melon 'and scrape out the soft 
inside. Cut the rind into strips. Line a kettle with vine-leaves, lay 
in the rind in alternate la3^ers with more grape-leaves, sprinkle each 
layer lightly with powdered alum, pour in a very little cold water, 
cover the kettle closely, and steam the contents for three hours. Do 
not let the rind boil during this time. Drain the rind, and throw into 
cold water. Soak for four hours, draining and adding fresh, cold 
water every hour. 

Put into the preserving kettle two and a half pounds of granulated 
sugar and a quart of water, and bring to a boil, skimming off the scum 
as it rises to the surface. 

TO CAN RHUBARB. 

Select fresh rhubarb, wash in cold water and cut into pieces about 
one-half to three-quarters of an inch long without removing the skin, 
as that is the part which contains the flavor and color. Pack in jars 
until each jar is brim full ; set under hydrant faucet and let the water 
run for a minute or two. Wipe the top dry and screw on. Cover the 
jar with manilla paper bag and set in a dark, cool place until needed 
for use. Use no sugar, no heat ! 



174 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To every quart of raspberries allow a pound of granulated sugar. 
Put sugar and berries into a pan, and let them stand two or three 
hours. Then boil them in a porcelain kettle, taking off the scum 
carefully. When no more scum rises, mash them and boil to smooth 
marmalade. Any kind of berrj' or currant jam may be made in the 
same manner. 

. GRAPE JAM. 

Take skins from grapes and put them in a kettle with just enough 
water to cover; cook until they can be easily strained through a sieve 
to separate seeds. Return skins to the pulp, add one pound of sugar 
to one pint of fruit, and boil gently fifteen minutes. 

JELLIED GRAPES. 

A very delicious dish is made of one-third cup of rice, two cups 
of grapes, half cup of water and two spoonfuls of sugar; sprinkle rice 
and sugar among the grapes, place them in a deep dish, pour on the 
water, cover close, and simmer two hours in the oven. If served 
warm, as pudding, increase the rice and sugar a trifle. 

SPICED GRAPES. 
Pulp the grapes; cook them so that straining will separate pulp 
and seed. To seven pounds of grapes (half pulp and half seed) add 
four pounds sugar, one-half tablespoonful ground cinnamon and the 
same quantity of cloves. Boil four hours. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Take five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one tablespoonful of ground cloves 
and one pint vinegar. Boil slowly for three hours. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

Four pounds of stoned plums, one tablespoonful of mace, cloves, 
allspice, cinnamon and two pounds of sugar. Put into a kettle, cover 
with vinegar and boil until the mixture is clear. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 175 

WINE JELLY. 

One and one-fourth to one and one-half ounces gelatine, one and 
one-fourth pints of cold water, half pint of sherry, Madeira or mar- 
sala, one-fourth pint of lemon juice, five ounces of loaf sugar, two 
cloves, one inch of cinnamon, the rind of two lemons thinly cut, the 
whites of two eggs whisked. 

Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and then 
put all the prepared ingredients into a saucepan over a slow fire, and 
whisk it until it begins to boil. Allow it to boil up well (about ten 
minutes), and then simmer for another ten minutes or more without 
stirring. Strain through a clean, scalded cloth. Return through the 
cloth until clear, each time putting a basin rinsed with hot water 
underneath. When clear, set in a mold rinsed with cold water, and 
let it stand until firm. It is recommended that this jelly should be 
set in ice. Turn out and serve. With first-class sherry or Madeira, 
it is safe to add it after straining the rest ; or it may be added at the 
moment of straining, as by boiling some of the flavor is lost. 

PORT WINE JELLY. 

One ounce of gelatine, two ounces of white sugar candy, one tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, one and one-half pints of port wine, half 
ounce of gum arabic. 

Put the gelatine, the sugar candy, the gum arabic and the grated 
nutmeg into a jar. Pour the port wine over them, cover the jar with 
a cloth to keep out the dust, and leave until the following day. After- 
ward set the jar in a saucepan of hot water and simmer until dis- 
solved, stirring occasionally. Take the jar out of the water and pour 
the contents into a mold. The jelly must not be strained. If the 
flavor of nutmeg is not liked it may be omitted, and other spices used 
in its place. 

CLARET JELLY (EXCEPTIONALLY GOOD). 

Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half pint of claret, half 
pint of water, rind and juice of one lemon, a few drops of cochineal, 
one gill of raspberry jam or syrup from fresh fruit, four ounces of 
sugar, one clove and half an inch of cinnaomn or one tablespoonful of 
brandy. 



176 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

Soak the gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the 
ingredients together in an enameled saucepan. Whisk until it boils 
up well ; let simmer ten minutes. Color with the cochineal, and 
strain through a coarse cloth, scalded. Pour into a jelly mold rinsed 
in cold water, and allow to set in a very cool place. If preferred, 
pour into a border mold and serve with whipped cream in the centre. 

BRANDY JELLY. 

One and one-fourth ounces of gelatine, half pound of sugar, one 
quart of cold water, one gill of brandy, one lemon, whites of two eggs, 
nutmeg, six cloves and one bay leaf. 

Put the cold water in a saucepan with the sugar and gelatine and 
grate in the rind of the lemon, squeezing in the juice as well; mix 
thoroughly, allow to stand ten minutes, and then place the saucepan 
on a hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of the eggs and add to 
the above mixture a little grated nutmeg, six cloves and a bay leaf, 
and mix all well for one minute. Stir the preparation, and when it 
comes to a boil set back to a cooler part of the stove and stir for six 
minutes. Strain through a clean, scalded cloth until clear and then 
add the gill of brandy. Pour into a mold, pack in ice until set, then 
turn out, wipe and serve. 

ORANGE JELLY (CLEAR). 

One and one-half ounces of gelatine, sugar to taste, whites and 
shells of two eggs, one pint of orange juice, half pint of lemon juice, 
half pint of water. 

Soak the gelatine in the water, strain the orange and lemon juice 
and add to the gelatine, sweeten with loaf sugar and boil for a few 
minutes and allow to cool. Add the beaten whites and crushed shells 
of the eggs and boil the jelly up again. Strain through a clean, 
scalded cloth, pour into a mold and allow to set. 

RASPBERRY JELLY WITH CREAM ICE. 

Put half a pound or a pint of loaf sugar into a stew-pan with half 
a pint of cold water and the thinly pared rind of two lemons. Let 
the water come to a boil and then simmer for ten minutes. Stew 
until all the juice has been drawn from them, pass the juice through 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 177 



a fine hair sieve. Then measure and reheat, dissolving in it gelatine 
in the proportion of half an ounce to each pint of liquid. Taste to 
see if it requires any more sugar and strain it into a basin. If handy 
when the jelly is cool, add a wineglassful of sherry and pour all into 
a mold to set. Put a cup of milk into a double boiler with eight 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the thinly pared rind of a lemon. Stir 
on the stove until the sugar has dissolved and leave until cold. Whip 
a cup of cream, stir it into the basin containing the cooked milk and 
freeze. Serve together with raspberry jelly. 

PEACH JELLY. 

Pare the peaches, take out the stones, then slice them ; add to them 
about a quarter of the kernels. Place them in a kettle with enough 
water to cover them. 

Stir them often until the fruit is well cooked, then strain, and to 
every pint of the juice add the juice of a lemon; measure again, 
allowing a pound of sugar to each pint of juice; heat the sugar very 
hot, and add when the juice has boiled twenty minutes; let it come to 
a boil, and take instantly from the fire. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Peel ripe peaches, stone them and cut them small ; weigh three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar for each pound of cut fruit and a teacup 
of water for each pound of sugar; set it over the fire; when it boils 
skim it clear, then put in the peaches ; let them boil quite fast ; mash 
them fine and let them boil until the whole is a jellied mass and thick, 
then put it in small jars or tumblers; when cold secure it as directed 
for jellies. Half a pound of sugar for a pound of fruit will make 
nice marmalade. 

CHOCOLATE JELLY. 

One pint of boiling water, two pinches of salt, one and one-half 
squares chocolate, one-third package of gelatine, two level tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Put the water, salt and chocolate in a saucepan. Cook, stirring 
until the chocolate melts, then let it boil for three or five minutes. 
Soften the gelatine in a little cold water and pour the boiling mixture 
over it. Stir until dissolved, then add sugar and vanilla. Pour into 
a mold and set aside to harden; serve with cream and powdered 
sugar or sweetened whipped cream. 



178 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

RUSSIAN JELLY. 

Half a cupful of canned or preserved fruit or berries, half a box 
of gelatine, one cupful of boiling water, one-fourth cup of lemon 
juice, two tablespoonfuls of wine, half a cup of cold water, one and 
one-half cupfuls of sugar, half a cup of orange juice. 

Put the berries, if fresh, through the press, and cover with one- 
half cup of sugar. Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let it 
stand one-half hour. Add the boiling water, and when the gelatine is 
dissolved, add the sugar, fruit juices and wine. As soon as the jelly 
begins to harden, whip with a wire beater until the whole mass is 
frothy like snow pudding. Put away in mold previously wet with 
cold water, to harden. 

PLUM PUDDING JELLY. 

Half a box of gelatine, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of raisins, 
one ounce of chocolate or cocoa, two cupfuls of milk, one-fourth cup- 
ful of currants, one-fourth cup of sliced citron. 

Cover the gelatine with one-half of a cup of cold water and let 
stand for half an hour. Put the raisins through the seeder. Care- 
fully clean the currants and slice the citron. Cover the fruit with 
one tablespoonful of orange juice or sweet wine. Scald the milk, add 
the sugar and stir until dissolved. Melt the chocolate over hot water 
and add to the scalded milk. Dissolve the gelatine over hot water, 
strain into the milk and remove from the fire. Let the pudding stand 
until it begins to form before adding the fruit. Stir it gently until 
well mixed and the jelly has formed sufficiently so the fruit will not 
settle to the bottom. Turn into a mold previously wet with cold 
water, and put away to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

INVALID BEEF TEA JELLY. 

One-fourth of an ounce of gelatine, one-half pint of strong beef 
tea. 

Make half a pint of good beef tea and strain into a basin. Soak 
the gelatine in a little water, then dissolve over a gentle heat and 
strain into the beef tea. Season and pour into small molds rinsed 
in cold water or into china cases. When firm, dip the molds into 
hot water, and turn quickly out onto a dish — or if in china cases, serve 
in the case. Increase the gelatine in warm weather. This is usefully 
remembered in the case of invalids on tepid diet, as it is very palatable 
and soothing in that form. 



Holds America's Highest Prize 

BAKERS 

Cocoa and Chocolate 




Absolutely pure, with a 
most delicious flavor, made 
by a scientific blending of 
the best cocoa beans grown 
in different parts of the 
world. It is backed by 126 
years of successful manu- 
facture and by 46 highest 
awards in Europe and 



America — an unparalleled 
record of achievement. 



Kegistered U. S. Pat. Office 



Be sure that you get the genuine with the trade=mark 
on the package. 

Directions for preparing more than one hundred dainty 
dishes in our Choice Recipe Book, sent free on request. 

Walter Baker ®. Co. Ltd. 

Established 1780. DORCHESTER, MASS. 



t8o The New Lucile Cook Book. 



PICKLES. 

"Peter Piper picked a peck 
Of pickled peppers.'' 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Choose only small cucumbers, as they make pretty, as well as 
tender, pickles. Lay one hundred and fifty small cucumbers in cold 
water for an hour. Remove and drain, then turn into a perfectly 
clean stone crock, and pour over them cold brine, so strong that an 
egg will float on the surface. After standing in this for three days 
the pickles may be removed, drained and dried on a clean towel. 
Wash the stone crock and return the cucumbers to it. Cover with 
pure water until the next day. Have ready on the range hot vinegar 
in which j'ou have boiled two minced onions, twenty cloves, an ounce, 
each, of mustard and celery seed and a few blades of mace. Fill the 
jar with this boiling mixture, and add a cupful of sugar, stirring the 
cucumbers up from the bottom. Cover tightly. In a week scald the 
vinegar again, and return to the jar. Let the pickles stand for six 
weeks before using. Six months is even better. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Select small, white onions, put them over the fire in cold water, 
with a handful of salt; when the water becomes scalding hot, take 
them out and peel off the skins; lay them in a cloth to dry, then put 
them in a jar; boil half an ounce of allspice and half an ounce of 
cloves with a quart of vinegar; take out the spice, and pour the vin- 
egar over the onions while it is hot; tie up the jar when the vinegar 
is cold, and keep it in a dry place. 

PICKLED BEETS. 
Select nice red beets and boil until tender. Plunge each one 
separately into cold water, and with your hands give a little twist to 
strip off the skin. Cut lengthwise into strips. Place these, not too 
closely, in glass jars, leaving room that the liquor may surround each 
piece. To two quarts of vinegar add four pounds of brown sugar 
and one-half teaspoonful of alum, powdered. Let this boil. After 
skimming, add one teaspoonful, each, of cloves, allspice, mustard, a 
few peppercorns — all unground and tied in a bag. Boil again, adding 



The New Lucile Cook Book. i8i 

a little cayenne and salt. Pour over the beets. Next day drain off 
the syrup, bring to a boil, pour over the beets again, then seal. This 
pickle will be of a rich red color and very delicious. 

ENGLISH CHOW-CHOW. 

One-quarter of a peck of green beans, one quart of small onions, 
one quart of green sliced tomatoes, two dozen small cucumbers, one 
dozen small green peppers, one dozen chopped red peppers, one cauli- 
flower, two ounces of white mustard seed, the same quantity of black 
mustard seed, one-half pound of yellow ground mustard, one-fourth 
of a teacupful of sweet oil, a tablespoonful of tumeric powder, one 
teaspoonful of celery seed ; scald the beans, onions, pepper, tomatoes, 
cauliflower, cucumbers and vinegar, and drain through a colander; 
then place in a jar; put on the fire fresh vinegar sufficient to cover the 
pickle, and put into it all the seed and two-thirds of the ground mus- 
tard ; let it boil some minutes, then mix the remainder of the mustard, 
the tumeric and oil together; stir in, and let it boil up once and pour 
over the pickle. 

RED CABBAGE PICKLE. 

Quarter the cabbage and lay in a jar. Cover with salt and let 
it stand for twenty- four hours. Drain off the brine; wipe dry and 
cover with cold water for twelve hours. Bring two quarts of vin- 
egar to the boil, spicing it, as you do so, with equal quantities of whole 
cloves, white peppers and blades of mace broken into tiny bits, a half 
cupful of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of celery seed. Pack the cab- 
bage into a crock, and, after the vinegar and spices have boiled to- 
gether for ten minutes, cover the cabbage with the scalding vinegar. 
Cover, and keep in a cool place. It must not be used under six weeks 
or two months. 

STUFFED MANGOES OR PEPPERS. 

Cut the tops from green peppers, and with a sharp knife remove 
the seeds. Fill the peppers with salt and cover with cold water. Let 
them stand thus for two days, then drain; leave in cold water for a 
day and fill with a stuffing made of two tablespoonfuls of minced 
cabbage, two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, grated, a teaspoonful of 
minced onion, a half-teaspoonful, each, of powdered mace, nutmeg 
and ginger, a teaspoonful, each, of celery seed, peppercorns and 
ground mustard, a teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of salad 



'82 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



oil. When the peppers are stuffed tie on the tops with soft twine, 
pack in a crock and fill the crock with boiling vinegar. Repeat the 
scalding a week later. Cover, and let them stand for several months 
before using. 

CANTELOUPE PICKLE. 

Cut the fruit in slices, remove the seeds and soft part and peel very 
thin. Boil in lightly salted water ten minutes, remove and cool. To 
seven pounds of fruit allow one quart of vinegar, three pounds sugar, 
three pieces stick cinnamon four inches long and one ounce, each, 
allspice and cloves. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices together ten min- 
utes, add the sliced melon and cook five minutes. Take out the fruit 
with a skimmer and pack in jars. Cook the syrup ten minutes longer 
and pour over fruit in jars. Preserved ginger is considered an im- 
provement by many. 

PICCALILLI. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes, one-half peck of onions, sliced, 
sprinkle salt through them and let stand over night; in the morning 
drain off the water; put over the fire, with enough weak vinegar to 
cover ; let simmer slowly until a little tender, but not cooked to pieces ; 
drain in a colander, and put a layer of the pickle in a jar; sprinkle 
over black mustard seed, ground pepper, cinnamon, cloves, allspice 
and a little sugar; continue in this way until the jar is filled; sprinkle 
plenty of spice over the top, pour over cold, strong vinegar; cover 
tight, and set away. 

SPICED PEACHES. 
Pare and, if very large, halve one peck fine Crawford peaches; to 
one pint of vinegar allow three pounds of white sugar, and of this 
make a rich syrup; drop into the syrup a small handful of broken cin- 
namon, a very little cloves and mace, and a few pieces of ginger root; 
when boiling, add as many peaches as the syrup will cover, and let 
them simmer for about ten minutes, then take out carefully with a 
spoon, put into jars; then cook more peaches in the same syrup; when 
all are cooked, make fresh syrup, and put over them in the jars. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

Select ripe, but firm fruit, free from blemishes; peel them care- 
fully; allow a pound of sugar to a pint of good cider vinegar; place 
cloves and cinnamon in a bag, and boil in the vinegar. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 183 



When the vinegar has come to a boil, drop in the peaches (a few 
at a time), and let them remain till done through, but not soft or 
broken; then remove them carefully with a skimmer and place them 
in jars; repeat this process till all are done, then fill up the jars with 
the remaining vinegar, and seal while warm. 

In the same manner may be made sweet pickled pears, plums, 
crab-apples and cherries. 

SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes and two quarts of small white 
onions, and sprinkle over them a large cupful of salt. Let them 
stand over night m the brine. In the morning drain well and let 
them stand in cold water for a few minutes. Pour this water off and 
add enough vinegar to cover. Add two povmds of brown sugar, one- 
fourth of a pound of mustard seed and two tablespoonfuls each of 
allspice, whole cloves and stick cinnamon. Cook all together until the 
pickles are tender; put into jars and seal. 

PICKLED LIME RELISH. 

One dozen thin-skinned pickled limes soaked for twenty-four 
hours in cold water, changing the water two or three times. Put over 
the fire in a saucepan of cold water, boil till a straw can penetrate 
easily. Let cool, cut in eighths and remove seeds. Make a syrup 
of one and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup water and one cup vin- 
egar. Cook fifteen minutes and pour over the limes. Excellent served 
with cold meats and scalloped oysters. 

TO MAKE SAUERKRAUT. 

It is necessary to have a perfectly tight barrel or tub. It should 
be clean and sweet. Select good, firm heads of cabbage. Remove the 
outside leaves ; cut in halves, take out the heart and shave the cabbage 
fine with a cabbage cutter. Sprinkle a tablespoonful of salt over the 
bottom of the barrel, then a la}^er of twelve quarts of the cut cabbage 
and a tablespoonful of salt. 

Proceed thus until the barrel is as full as desired. One and a 
half pints of salt will be required for the barrel. Pound lightly each 
time after putting in the cabbage. Cover the top layer with a white 
cloth, then with a round wood cover that will fit the barrel nearly 
tight, on which place a weight according to the quantity of the cab- 



184 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



bage. Forty-five or fifty pounds weight will be required for a barrel 
of cabbage. In twenty-four hours the juice should be over the cover; 
ii not, add clear, cold water. 

In a week, wash, every other day, the cover cloth weight, and the 
barrel down to the cabbage ; to remove the scum. Do this as long as 
it seems necessary. If kept in a moderately warm place it may be 
used in about three weeks. It should then be set in a cool place. 

CATSUP. 

It is a comparatively simple operation to make catsup and chow- 
chow. Here are some recipes which, if carefully followed, will give 
the very best results. 

They have all been tried and tested thoroughly and have stood 
the test of time. If you want to enjoy some delicacies of your own 
making and surprise your friends with a delicious treat, set to work 
and try them for yourself. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Five pounds grapes, one pint of vinegar; boil the grapes in the 
vinegar until well boiled, then strain ; add two pounds of brown 
sugar, one tablespoonful of ground cloves and one each of ground 
cinnamon, ground allspice and ground black pepper; simmer all to- 
gether for an hour. 

TOMATO CHUTNEY. 

One-half peck tomatoes, one-half peck apples, pared and cored, 
one-half pound salt, one-half pound brown sugar, one-half pound 
raisins, one-quarter pound ginger, two ounces garlic, two ounces 
eschalot, three quarts vinegar. Boil gently from five to six hours. 
Press through a colander and bottle. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Half a bushel of tomatoes ; peel, stew and strain them ; then add 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of cloves, two table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, half a tablespoonful of red pepper, two-thirds 
of a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of mustard, one pint of vin- 
egar, a few onions; simmer slowly three or four hours. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 185 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two bunches of celery, two quarts green tomatoes, two quarts 
white onions, one-half dozen green peppers, one dozen medium-sized 
cucumbers, two small heads of cabbage. All chopped fine. One-half 
cup salt, stir, put in kettle and add one pound sugar, one ounce tur- 
meric, one ounce whole spice, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce all- 
spice, one ounce black pepper, one-half ounce cloves; simmer two 
hours. Bottle. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Five pounds of berries, two and a half pounds sugar; boil down 
until as thick as an apple butter; add cinnamon and cloves to taste, 
a pinch of salt, one pint of vinegar; strain through a hair sieve and 
bottle. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Three dozen large cucumbers, three white onions; grate all to a 
pulp, drain through a sieve several hours, add salt, pepper and good 
vinegar; seal in bottles. 



t86 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

SANDWICHES. 

Art is required in making sandwiches. Simply placing a slice of 
meat between two slices of bread and butter by no means completes 
the process, nor does it follow that the result is a tempting morsel. 

As one so often meets carelessly prepared sandwiches, a few hints 
on their preparation may prove useful, particularly as, during the 
summer months, when open air parties are in vogue, nothing can well 
take the place of delicately cut sandwiches. 

The bread, which may be brown or white, must be stale enough 
to cut evenly, at least a day old, and a tin loaf is the most economical. 
The slices should be about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 

The butter must be above suspicion. 

The mustard, freshly made and mixed with the butter for most 
savory sandwiches. Allow two teaspoonfuls of mustard (or more 
according to taste) to each half-pound of butter and mix the two by 
means of a wooden spoon. 

Meat, game and poultry must be free from skin and gristle and 
cut into small, thin pieces, and hard-boiled eggs coarsely chopped and 
seasoned lightly. 

The best part of lettuce should be used only, and needless to say, 
like all salad, must be absolutely clean. Peeled cucumbers must be 
cut into the thinnest possible slices and sprinkled with salt, pepper 
and a few drops of lemon juice. 

After forming the sandwich, press the bread and butter firmly to- 
gether. Trim off the crusts and cut into oblong, round, square oi 
crescent shapes. Keep them covered with a damp cloth until required. 
Serve on a folded napkin and garnish tastefully with parsley, etc. 

TOASTED CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

For luncheon sandwiches, cut very thin slices of bread, butter them 
and press them together, two and two, with a thin slice of cold 
chicken between. Then toast brown and serve quickly. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Required: Six tablespoonfuls of chopped boiled ham, the yolks of 
six hard-boiled eggs, four teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, two ounces 
of butter, one teaspoonful of made mustard. 

Chop the ham finely, then put it in a mortar with the hard-boiled 
yolks, mustard, parsley, the butter, which should first be gently 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 187 



melted, and pepper to taste. Pound these all well together, and the 
mixture is ready for use. 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES. 

One cupful of cold boiled ham, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, 
three teaspoonfuls of melted butter. 

Chop the ham fine. Rub the yolks of the eggs smooth with the 
butter, mix with the ham, mustard and lemon juice, and season to 
taste. Spread on thin slices of bread. Fold together or roll. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Make a dressing, one part mustard and five parts butter, add salt 
and pepper to taste and a little cayenne. Butter the bread with the 
dressing and lay between the slices thin slices of cold tongue. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES. 

Season the finely-chopped meat of a lobster with a few drops of 
Tabasco sauce, lemon juice and oil, and spread upon thinly-buttered 
bread. 

SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Remove the skin and bones from a can of salmon, shred with a 
silver fork and add the crumbled yolks of six hard-boiled eggs. Sea- 
son to taste and add any good salad dressing. Spread on thin slices 
of brown bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Pound eight boned and skinned sardines with two ounces of fresh 
butter, a little salt and cayenne. Spread the mixture on slices of 
brown bread and butter, and over them lay a slice of skinned tomato. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and a pinch of castor sugar. A few drops 
of lemon juice if liked. Form into sandwiches and cut into finger 
lengths. 

FISH SANDWICHES. 

Fresh fish should be flaked fine, seasoned with salt and peppei-, 
chopped pickle, lemon juice, celery or onion extract, and mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing, or moistened with a sauce. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



Anchovies, sardines or salt fish are better pounded to a paste and 
moistened with lemon juice. 

VEGETABLE SANDWICHES. 

These are very refreshing with cold meats. Tomatoes, cucum- 
bers, lettuce and water-cresses are most commonly used. 

Tomatoes or cucumbers should be chopped and mixed with a 
mayonnaise. Spread the bread with butter, cut Hplfc-fp slices, and 
spread with the vegetable. Put together and serve. 

Lettuce and water-cress should be shredded. Spread the bread 
with mayonnaise, and mix the lettuce or water-cress with a French 
dressing. 

Vegetable sandwiches should be served as soon as possible after 
making. 

CHOCOLATE SANDV^ICHES. 

Slightly butter thin slices of white bread, trim off the crusts and 
cut into the desired shape. Grate the bitter chocolate and sweeten it 
to taste with granulated sugar. Melt in a small piece of butter and 
add the chocolate to it. Take from the fire and cool. Moisten with 
a little cream if the filling is too thick to spread between the slices of 
bread. This is one of the sweet sandwiches appreciated with a cup 
of tea. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cottage cheese, spread upon a slice of buttered bread, and covered 
with a leaf of lettuce dipped in oil and vinegar, then with the second 
buttered slice, makes a nice relish. 

MONTPELLIER SANDWICHES. 

Mix three hard-boiled yolks with an ounce of butter, one dessert- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, or three boned anchovies, cayenne to 
taste. Pass the whole through a sieve and use. 

TOAST SANDWICHES. 

Slices of golden brown toast. Split the slices, place a spoonful of 
mayonnaise sauce (and a few chopped capers, if liked) with some 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



chopped game or poultry. Form into small sandwiches. These may 
be varied by substituting fish for the meat, and the addition of a little 
cress is an improvement. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES. 

Use French or milk bread in this case. Between the slices place 
a spoonful of thick cream, sweetmeat, cover with slices of banana or 
pineapple; strawberries, etc., may be used in the same way. Cut into 
dainty shapes and garnish with maidenhair fern. 

A CHANGE ON SANDWICHES. 

Delicious sandwiches are made of chopped sardines with a little 
mayonnaise, or cucumbers with a little mayonnaise, or caviar or green 
pepper. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Take one cup of peanuts rolled fine, stir half a tablespoonful of 
butter with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to a cream; add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of lemon juice, a table- 
spoonful of cream or milk and the finely-chopped white of the egg ; a 
cup of finely-chopped apples may be added just before the mixture is 
put between thin slices of bread. 

DATE SANDWICHES. 

Spread slices of thin graham bread with nut butter, and then with 
chopped dates, seedless raisins or figs. 
Nuts may also be added if desired. 

NUTTED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Put one cupful of English walnut meats through the nut grater 
or chop very fine. Mash a Philadelphia cream cheese with enough 
sweet cream to make a paste, gradually adding the nuts. Season with 
salt and a dash of cayenne. The mixture should be soft enough to 
spread easily. 

PEPPER SANDWICHES. 

Chop finely green bell peppers, mix with a few chopped olives and 
mayonnaise to make a paste. Spread between slices of bread cut very 
thin. 



igo The New Lucile Cook Book. 



GINGER SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of plain gingerbread. Spread with soft cream 
cheese. Put between the slices a thin slice of preserved ginger. 

MARMALADE SANDWICHES. 

Toast slices of bread, spread while hot with butter, fill with a 
thick marmalade and serve hot. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Chop the whites of the hard-boiled eggs very fine. Mix the yolks 
smooth with well-seasoned mayonnaise dressing, add the whites, and 
spread on the bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Grate the cheese fine. Rub it to a paste with melted butter, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and spread on the sandwiches. 

SWEET SANDWICHES. 

These may be made with marmalades, jam or jellies, anything 
which will spread without running. Lemon juice or extract flavor- 
ings may be used, if desired. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 191 



FRITTERS. 

"The discovery of a New Dish does more for the 

Happiness of mankind than the discovery of a New Planet." 

PLAIN FRITTERS. 

Mix three ounces of flour and half a pint of milk to a smooth 
batter; add three well-beaten eggs; beat the whole to a perfectly 
smooth batter. Drop by the teaspoonful into hot drippings and fry 
to a nice brown, turning when necessary. Drain and sift powdered 
sugar over them ; or serve with a sauce made of any kind of fruit, or 
pass maple syrup with the fritters. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

One pint of sweet milk, one cupful of fine bread crumbs, two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, a little salt, and soda in 
quantity the size of a pea, dissolved in a very little hot water. 

Heat the milk to boiling, pour it over the bread crumbs, and beat 
them until perfectly smooth ; then add the well-beaten yolks, the salt, 
butter and soda. Beat the whites stiff and add last. Fry in hot fat 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Melt half an ounce of butter to a cream, but not so as to be oily, 
and add to it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; beat well and add 
very gradually half a pound of flour and a palatable seasoning of salt ; 
thin with warm, sweet milk until the batter will drop from the spoon 
smoothly. Stir until perfectly smooth, then add the beaten whites of 
two eggs; beat for a few minutes and it is ready for use, but will be 
better if allowed to stand for a few hours. Pare, core, and cut in 
quarters some tart, ripe apples, dip them in the batter and fry for five 
minutes in hot drippings. Drain, dust with powdered sugar and 
serve. The fritters will be much improved if the prepared apples 
are allowed to stand for an hour or two in a syrup made of sugar and 
flavored with lemon, or any flavoring preferred. Peaches, oranges or 
pineapples may be used instead of apples, and will be found very 
delicious. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Peel and slice a dozen peaches, and stir them into a batter made 
by beating together three whipped eggs, a cupful of rich milk, a pinch 



192 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

of salt and a cupful of prepared flour. Drop this mixture by the 
spoonful into deep, boiling fat. When the fritters are of a golden 
brown color, drain in a colander and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 
Serve very hot. 

PEA PANCAKES OR FRITTERS. 

Boil a pint of green peas until tender ; mash them while hot, and 
rub through a colander; season with pepper and salt and a table- 
spoonful of butter; when cold, add to the pulp the yolk of two eggs, 
well beaten, a cupful of rich milk, one teacupful and a half of flour 
and one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, sifted 
three times with the flour, stir and beat well, and add, just before 
baking, the whites of the eggs, beaten stif¥. Bake the same as pan- 
cakes, and serve very hot. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Look over and wash six ounces of rice; pour over it a quart of 
rich milk and let it simmer over a slow fire until perfectly tender, 
which will require about an hour. When the rice is done, if it has 
not absorbed all the milk, drain it off and add an ounce of butter, 
three ounces of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, and a glass of orange 
marmalade. Stir over the fire until the eggs are set ; then spread the 
mixture on a dish to the depth of an inch. When cold, cut in the 
desired form, dip in a batter made as for apple fritters and fry in hot 
drippings. Drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Grate the corn from thirteen ears of sweet corn, add a little 
pepper, a pinch of salt, one tablespoonful of flour and two well-beaten 
eggs. Bake on a buttered griddle and serve at once. 

SWEET POTATO FRITTERS. 

Boil, skin, and dry in an open oven. Mash while warm, and rub 
through a colander, or a vegetable press. Stir into a pint of potatoes 
a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; finally, the j'olks of two beaten eggs. With floured 
hands shape into flat cakes, dip into the frothed whites, then in 
cracker crumbs, repeating the process. Leave upon ice two hours and 
fry in deep, boiling cottolene or other fat to a golden brown. 

Eat with lemon sauce. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. i93 

BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

" And now to Breakfast, with 
What appetite you have." 

Perfect bread can be made only from the best of materials, com- 
bined with the most scrupulous care and attention throughout the 
process. There can be no delay about mixing the sponge when light, 
molding the fermented dough into loaves or placing the loaves in a 
hot oven when they have attained the requisite degree of lightness, if 
you are ambitious to see upon your table that proud achievement of 
the notable housewife, excellent bread. 

Every bread baker will see the advisability of setting her sponge 
at night, if she wishes to have her bread baked in the early part of 
the day. If the weather is cold, warm the flour slightly for making 
the sponge, and also that used in mixing the bread. 

A few white, mealy potatoes smoothly mashed and added to the 
sponge will make the bread sweeter and keep it fresh longer. Make 
the batter rather stiff; if, after standing a while, the top is covered 
v,'ith water, more flour is required. Set the sponge in a moderately 
warm place to rise; the degree of temperature at which the sponge 
and dough is kept during the fermentation will materially afifect the 
quality of the bread ; great care must therefore be taken that it does 
not at any time become either chilled or overheated, as either con- 
dition will be ruinous. Keep bread sponge and dough, as nearly as 
possible, at a temperature of seventy-five degrees. It is an excellent 
plan to cover your bread-pan, especially in winter, with a heavy, 
folded, woolen blanket kept for the purpose. Mix the sponge as soon 
as light ; it should be like honeycomb and about twice the bulk it was 
when set. Add flour to make a rather soft dough; if too stiff, the 
bread will be hard and tough ; add flour until you can handle the 
dough without having it adhere to your fingers unpleasantly ; it should 
not be at all sticky, or wet, and yet must be soft. 

The kneading is an important part of the process of bread making; 
the more thoroughly it is kneaded, the whiter and finer of texture 
will be your bread. Half an hour should be spent in kneading bread 
sufficient in quantity for four good-sized loaves. Allow to rise to 
twice the bulk that it had when you stopped kneading and mold at 
once into medium-sized loaves. When the loaves have arisen to twice 
their original size, bake in a hot oven. Three-quarters of an hour is 
sufficient time to allow for baking medium-sized loaves. 



Insure success in Bread Making 
by using "Pillsbury's Best" Flour 



Pillsbury's 




THE FLOUR 



SOLD BY 



Acker, Merrall & Condit Co. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 195 



MILK BREAD. 

Sift two quarts of flour with a tablespoonful of sugar and an even 
teaspoonful of salt. Have ready a pint of boiling water into which 
you have stirred an even tablespoonful of butter. Add, while the 
water is boiling, two cups of milk, and take from the fire at once. 
When a little more than blood-warm, stir into the milk and water 
half a cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in half a cupful of warm 
water. Make a hole in the sifted flour, pour in the mixture and work 
quickly with a wooden spoon to a soft dough. Flour your hands, 
make the dough into a manageable ball and knead hard and steadily 
for ten minutes. Let the dough rise to double the original bulk in 
your covered bread-bowl, make into loaves when 30U have kneaded it 
for five minutes, and proceed as already directed. 

"SALT-RISING" BREAD. 

Dissolve a half-teaspoonful of salt in two cups of scalding water, 
and beat in gradually enough flour to make a very soft dough. Beat 
for ten minutes, cover and set in a very warm place for eight hours. 
Now stir a teaspoonful of salt into a pint of lukewarm milk and add 
enough flour to make a stiff batter before working it into the risen 
dough. Mix thoroughly, cover, and set again in a warm place to 
rise until very light. Turn into a wooden bowl and knead in enough 
flour to make the batter of the consistency of ordinary bread dough. 
Make into loaves and set these to rise, and, when light, bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One and a half cupfuls of rye flour, two cupfuls of Indian meal, 
half cupful of molasses, two cupfuls of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little hot water and added to the milk, stirring 
until it foams ; half a teaspoonful of salt. Stir all the ingredients well 
together, and beat quite hard before putting into the well-buttered, 
round, deep baking-tin in which it should be placed while cold. 

Steam two and a half hours, then bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 
It is better eaten warm, but it is very nice either warm or cold. 

HYGIENIC BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Pass through a sieve together the corn meal, rye meal and salt; 
add the molasses, the yolks well beaten and the cream diluted with 



196 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

water and mix thoroughly. Then fold in the whites of eggs beaten 
dry. Steam in a buttered mold three hours. 

No lightening agent save the eggs is the occasion of the name. 

One cup of corn meal, one cup of rye meal, one-half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one-half a cup of molasses, the yolks of two eggs, one cup of 
cream, one-half a cup of water, the whites of two eggs. 

NUT BREAD. 

Add the softened yeast cake to the evaporated cream, lukewarm 
water, molasses, salt and nuts, and stir in the flour. A little more 
flour may be required. Knead the dough until elastic, then set to rise 
in the temperature of the living room. When light shape in loaves 
and when again light bake about an hour. This is hearty bread for 
the dinner pail or lunch basket. 

Two-thirds a cup of cream, one and one-third cups of lukewarm 
water, one yeast cake softened in half a cup of water, four tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half a pound of filbert 
(hazelnut) meats, four cups sifted entire wheat flour, two cups sifted 
white flour. 

(Two loaves of about one and one-half pounds each.) 

OLD-FASHIONED RYE BREAD. 

Dissolve half a cake of yeast in a quarter-cup of lukewarm milk, 
with a small teaspoonful of white sugar. Pour this into a wooden 
bowl, add a pint of lukewarm water, a heaping teaspoonful, each, of 
salt and caraway seed, and a pint of rye flour. Stir well with a 
wooden spoon and set to rise in a warm place for two hours. When 
sufficiently risen it will be full of bubbles. Add then flour enough to 
make a very stiff dough. Beat this for at least ten minutes and set to 
rise for two hours more. Knead on a floured board, let it rise in the 
pan again until it begins to crack. Dip your hand in cold water, wet 
the loaf and put it into the oven. It must bake one hour. Do not 
open the door for ten minutes after it goes in. The oven should be 
very hot at fifst, and as soon as the bread is browned it should be 
covered with stout paper. 

If you like, you may omit the caraway seeds. Some people dis- 
like them exceedingly. Others would not relish rye bread "all of ye 
olden time" without them. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. i97 



GERMAN COFFEE BREAD. 

Heat a cup of milk to scalding, but do not let it boil. Stir into it 
while hot two tablespoonfuls of cottolene (never lard), or butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a little salt. Let it cool to blood-warmth, 
when add half a yeast-cake dissolved in one-quarter cup of blood- 
warm milk, and flour to make a stifE batter. Cover, and let rise until 
light. Add one-half cup of seeded raisins, cut into pieces. Spread 
one-half inch thick in a buttered dripping-pan; cover and let rise. 
Brush with melted butter, and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 
Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Cover for half of that 
time with thick paper. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of sifted flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one saltspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-pow- 
der, and sweet milk to make a soft dough. 

Put the flour and baking-powder into a dish and sift three times. 
Put the butter into the flour, add the salt, and lastly the milk. Mix 
as soft as possible. Roll three-fourths of an inch thick, cut with a 
biscuit cutter and bake in a quick oven. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT. 

Three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, to a quart of flour, if 
milk is used; but if water is used, four tablespoonfuls will be re- 
quired. First sift the baking-powder well through the flour, add the 
salt, work the butter in thoroughly, then mix lightly and quickly with 
the milk or water into a soft dough. Roll out three-quarters of an 
inch thick, cut with a round cutter and bake in a hot oven. 

CREAM BISCUIT. 

One pint of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
little warm water, and stirred into the cream, the wljite of one egg 
well beaten, and a little salt. When the cream foams nicely, as it 
will from putting in the soda, stir into it as quickly as possible, enough 
sifted flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut in biscuit form and 
bake in a quick oven. The sooner the biscuits are in the oven after 
the soda is put into the cream, the lighter they will be. 



igS The New Lucile Cook Book. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUIT. 

One pint of buttermilk, into which has been stirred one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, previously dissolved in a little warm water, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter or clarified beef drippings, a little salt, and sifted 
flour to make a soft dough. Mix quickly, roll, cut into small biscuit 
with a biscuit cutter, and bake in a quick oven. 

BREAKFAST OR TEA ROLLS. 

Soak half a cake of yeast in one pint of warm milk or water (if 
milk is used, it is advisable to scald it and let it cool till slightly more 
than lukewarm, before setting the sponge) ; when soft, add two large 
potatoes, boiled and smoothly mashed, a scant tablespoonful of salt, 
and sifted flour to make a rather stiff batter; beat the batter well for 
five or ten minutes and set in a warm place to rise. When light, mix, 
adding flour until you have a soft, elastic dough, which does not stick 
to the molding board — take care that you do not add too much flour, 
as the dough must not be at all hard or stiff; return to the rising pan, 
let rise to twice the bulk that it had when you stopped kneading, push 
down and let rise again ; repeat the "pushing down" process at least 
two or three times if you would have perfect rolls, for on the frequent 
risings depend much of that light, tender condition so desirable in 
rolls. When the dough has risen sufficiently, knead into it, very thor- 
oughly, three tablespoonfuls of butter (not melted), one tablespoonful 
of white sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little 
warm water, and the well-beaten white of one egg. Roll half an inch 
thick; spread with melted butter; cut with medium-sized cooky or 
biscuit cutter; fold over so that the edges will nearly meet; place in 
buttered tins, let rise very light, and bake in a quick oven. Send to 
the table in a folded napkin. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one quart of flour, half a cake of 
yeast, one pint of sweet milk scalded, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
At night scald the milk, add the butter, and when cool, the yeast 
(softened in warm water), flour and salt. Mix well together and 
beat hard nearly ten minutes, then set in a warm place to rise. In the 
morning roll out half an inch thick and cut with a large cutter or 
saucer. Fold each one over to form a half round, wetting a little be- 
tween the folds to make them stick together. Place on buttered tins 



The New Lucile Cook Book. i99 

so they will not touch each other and set in a warm place until light, 
which will require from thirty to forty-five minutes. Bake about 
twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Brush the tops with milk 
to give them a gloss. Send to the table hot, covered with a napkin. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One cake of yeast, softened in warm water enough to cover it, the 
beaten white of one egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one and a half pints of warm sweet milk or 
water, and a little salt. Use flour sufficient to make a sponge as for 
bread. Do this at night. In the morning knead well and let the 
dough rise again. When light, roll out about three-fourths of an inch 
thick, cut out with a large cooky cutter or saucer; butter the edges, 
roll each side towards and up to the centre; put in buttered tins, and 
when light bake in a moderately hot oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Soften the yeast cake in lukewarm water and add to cream, 
diluted with the boiling water and cooled to a lukewarm temperature, 
stir in one cup and a half of flour and beat very thoroughly, cover 
and set aside to become light and puffy. Add the sugar, salt, melted 
butter and the rest of the flour. When well mixed, knead fifteen min- 
utes or until smooth and elastic, then set aside, covered, to become 
light. 

When doubled in bulk, turn onto the board and roll into a sheet 
about half an inch thick, and cut in rounds. Brush over half the 
surface of each round with melted butter, fold the other half of each 
round over the buttered half and set into a buttered pan. Bake when 
light. Glaze the top of the rolls with a teaspoonful of cornstarch 
cooked in a little water. 

One-half a cup of cream, one-half a cup of boiling water, one cakfc 
of compressed yeast, one-quarter a cup of lukewarm water, one level 
tablespoonful of sugar, one-quarter a cup of butter, one-half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, three and a half cups of flour. 

ROLL BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Two coffeecupfuls of bread dough, when ready for the bread 
tins. Four scant tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
white of one egg well beaten, one saltspoonful of soda dissolved in a 



BREAD 



has been truly named the staff of life 
To obtain the best results use :: :: 

0mcei)at Jf lour 

Beautiful crisp, light loaves containing 
all the nutriment necessary for the build- 
ing of an alert mind and active body 



ACKER, MERRALL 
& CONDIT C0.= 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 201 



little hot water, and half a tablespoonful of ground cinnamon. Mix 
all thoroughly together, using sufficient flour to make dough stiff 
enough to roll. Roll one-fourth of an inch thick and spread with 
a paste made by stirring two-thirds of a cupful of sugar into one well- 
beaten egg. Roll up like jelly cake — cut transversely into pieces an 
inch thick, and set on the ends close together in shallow tins. 

Let stand until very light and bake in a rather quick oven. To 
be eaten either warm or cold with coffee. 

RUSK. 

One cup of white sugar, one cupful of warm milk or water, a 
small cupful of butter, two eggs, half a cake of yeast softened in a 
little warm water, and flour enough to make a sponge. Let it rise 
through the night and knead in the morning. After kneading down 
twice, mold into biscuit form and brush over the top with the sweet- 
ened white of an egg; let them stand until light, then bake. If de- 
sired for tea, the sponge should be made in the morning. 

CURRANT BUNS. 

Three cupfuls of flour, one of sweet milk or water, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a cake of yeast, four tablespoonfuls of butter, 
four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a coffeecupful of English 
currants. Have the cupful of milk lukewarm, stir in the yeast, 
softened with a little warm water, the salt and two and a half cup- 
fuls of flour. Beat hard a few minutes and put in a warm place to 
rise — it will require about five hours. 

When light, work in the butter and sugar, lastly the currants, 
which should be dredged with flour, using the remaining half cupful 
of flour for the hands and molding board. Roll out half an inch 
thick; cut in round cakes, lay in a buttered dripping-pan, and let 
stand until light. Bake in a good oven to a golden brown and brush 
the tops with the sweetened, beaten white of an egg. 

HOT-CROSS BUNS. 

Mix two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, one pound of 
English currants, one teaspoonful of mixed spices, half a teaspoonful 
of salt well together. Soak half a cake of yeast in half a pint of 
warmed milk ; add enough of above mixture to make a thin batter ; 
cover and set in a warm place until light ; then add half a pound of 



202 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

melted (not oily) butter, the remainder of the flour, and enough milk 
to make the whole into a soft paste. Cover and set to rise. When 
light, shape the dough into buns, lay them apart on buttered tins ; let 
rise until light. Press a cross mold on them (this may be done 
roughly with the back of a knife), and bake in a quick oven from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 

GLAZED BUNS. 

Soften the j'east cake in the cold water; add to the cream diluted 
with the warm water and stir in the first cup and a half of flour; beat 
thoroughly, cover and set aside to become light and puffy. Add the 
egg, butter, sugar, salt, currants and enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Knead until the dough is elastic, then cover and set aside to 
become doubled in bulk. Turn the dough onto a floured board and 
pat out into a sheet five-eighths an inch thick; cut into rounds, set 
these in a well-oiled pan and when light bake about twenty-five min- 
utes. Dilute the corn starch with cold water, pour over nearly a 
cup of boiling water, stir and cook till boiling, then let simmer until 
the buns are nearly baked ; brush over with the starch, dredge with 
granulated sugar and return to the oven. Repeat the use of the starch 
and sugar three or more times. 

One cake of compressed yeast, one-quarter a cup of cold water, 
one-half a cup of cream, one-half a cup of warm water, about one 
and one-half cups of flour, one egg, one-quarter a cup of softened 
butter, one-quarter a cup of sugar, one-half a teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half a cup of currants, about one and one-half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of corn starch and one-eighth a cup of granulated sugar. 

CEREALS. 

Cereals contain all the most necessary proportions of food elements 
and are most nutritious. They are by no means appreciated, many 
people never touching them from one year's end to the other. They 
are not difliicult to digest, as they are comomnly considered, but would 
be much better eaten without sugar. 

In the old days, when trained athletes performed miracles of 
strength, they lived entirely on a grain diet. 

Of all the grain foods wheat is considered the most important. 

Oatmeal is a flesh former, and contains ten per cent of fat. It 
is particularly a winter food. 

Rice i? easily digested and an invaluable food. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 203 



Cereals may be prepared in many forms, and here are some valu- 
able recipes: 

PORRIDGES. 

The following will serve for all dishes of this kind, whatever the 
cereal : 

Stir a quarter pound of meal into a little cold water until the 
mixture is smooth and uniform, add one pint of boiling water, and 
boil steadily for twenty minutes. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

One pint of sweet milk, one cupful of wheat flour, one cupful of 
graham flour, one egg, half a teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar. Beat the egg separately and stir all well together. 

Butter the tins and have them quite hot when the dough is put in 
them. Bake in a quick oven. 

MUFFINS. 

One egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, one-quarter cup of butter. 
Beat all together thoroughly. Add one cup of milk, a little salt and 
one cup of flour into which is sifted two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam 
baking-powder. Now add enough flour to make a batter a little 
stiffer than for griddle cakes. Bake in well-buttered, hot muffin-tins. 

INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One pint of Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup- 
ful of milk, one-third of a cake of yeast, a little salt, and one egg. 
Scald the milk and the butter, and when lukewarm, the yeast (soft- 
ened in warm water), the sifted meal and salt. Stir together, beat 
well a few minutes, and set in a warm place to rise. Do this at night. 
In the morning add a well-beaten egg, and put in buttered gem-tins, 
filling them half full. Let rise until light and bake in a hot oven. 
Send to the table hot, in a napkin. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One quart of Indian meal sifted ; one heaping tablespoonful of 
butter, one quart of sweet milk, a little salt, one tablespoonful of 
molasses, a quarter of a cake of yeast softened in warm water enough 
to cover it. Stir thoroughly and briskly. The batter will require 



-?04 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

about five hours to rise, or over night if for breakfast. Bake in but- 
tered muflrln rings or patty-tins. Send to the table hot in the folds of 
a napkin. 

BATTER BREAD. 

Put one cupful of white Indian meal to soak over night in boiling 
water enough to cover it. In the morning add two thoroughly-beaten 
eggs, one pint of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoon- 
ful of lard or "butter. Thin with water if too thick, for the batter 
should be very thin. Beat hard for ten minutes; bake a nice brown 
in a hot oven. This recipe may be used for muffins and griddle cakes. 

CORN MEAL PONE. 

To each pint of corn meal allow one tablespoonful melted lard, a 
saltspoonful of salt, and cold water enough to make a soft dough or 
batter. Beat well together and quickly spread on a well-buttered 
dripping-pan and bake in a quick oven. 

This is the famous corn meal pone of the South. It should be 
sent to the table hot, and broken, not cut. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one and a half tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, a small teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking- 
powder sifted thoroughly into the flour, and flour enough to make a 
soft batter. Bake quickly in buttered waffle-irons and send to the 
table hot. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

One and a half pints of sweet milk scalded, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one cupful of boiled rice, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
cake of yeast, three and a half cupfuls of flour and two eggs. At 
night scald the milk, add the butter and rice, and when cool, the yeast 
(softened in a little warm water), salt and flour. Beat the batter 
very hard for about five minutes, then set in a warm place to rise. In 
the morning, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake on a well-buttered 
waffle-iron. Bake one first to test the consistency, before sending to 
the table. They should be a golden brown. Serve hot. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 205 

RISEN WAFFLES. 

Four eggs, two cups of milk, three tablespoon fuls of melted butter, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, sifted with half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half yeast cake dissolved in warm water. 
Beat well and long; set in a warm place to rise and bake in waffle- 
irons. 

CRUMPETS. 

Three cups of warm milk, half a cup of yeast, two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one saltspoonful each of salt and soda dissolved in 
hot water, flour enough to make a good batter. Set these ingredients 
— leaving out the butter and soda — as a sponge. When very light, 
beat in the melted butter, with a very little flour; stir in the soda 
hard, fill patty-pans or muffin-rings with the mixture, and let them 
stand fifteen minutes before baking. 

RICE BORDER WITH FRUIT. 

Have ready a kettle of boiling water. Drop into it a half pound 
of well-washed rice and boil hard for five minutes. Drain, turn the 
rice into a double boiler, add a pint of milk and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and cook, stirring occasionally, until the milk is absorbed. Pack 
into a slightly buttered border mold and set away until cold, then 
turn out on a large platter. Press enough berries (or fruit of any 
kind) to give a scant cupful of juice, add sugar syrup to sweeten and 
with this baste the rice until it has absorbed most of it. Fill the 
centre with whole fruit, heap some stiflfly-whipped cream on top and 
send to the table. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Two quarts of warm water, one cake of yeast, softened in a little 
warm water, a scant teaspoonful of salt, and buckwheat flour enough 
to make a nice batter, not too thick; stir wtII, make the batter at 
night. In the morning thin the batter with a little warm water, if 
necessary, and add a teaspoonful of molasses to make them brown ; or 
each morning after baking, add to the batter left, a buckwheat cake, 
thoroughly soaked in a little warm water, so it can be mashed fine; 
to this add the water for the batter for the following morning. At 
least a teacupful of the batter should be left after baking, if cakes are 
desired for the following day. If the cakes seem sour, a little soda 
may be dissolved in the warm water added in the morning. 



2o6 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of sweet milk, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of Sea Foam baking-powder, a generous pinch of salt. Beat 
the egg very light; add the milk and, lastly, with just enough beating 
to mix all together, the flour, sifted twice with salt and baking- 
powder. Bake at once. 

BREAD CRUMB PANCAKES. 

Stale bread makes nice pancakes, and it is sometimes an econom- 
ical way to use up broken bits of bread if they have been properly 
cared for when taken from the table. Crumb the bread as fine as 
possible, and pour over them enough milk to a little more than cover 
them; allow to soak several hours, or over night. When ready to 
use, beat the bread crumbs smooth; measure, and for two cupfuls of 
the bread crumbs add one egg, well beaten, one cupful of flour, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and enough milk to make a thin batter. If you use 
sweet milk, sift one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking- 
powder with the flour. Corn meal may be used in the place of the 
flour in these cakes, and will be found very nice. 

BERRY BREAD. 
Take a stale loaf of bread, cut in thin slices and spread with but- 
ter. Stew a quantity of any kind of berries (adding some currants or 
lemon juice to make slightly tart). When soft, sweeten to taste. In 
a deep dish put a layer of the bread, pour over it a quantity of the 
boiling mixture, then more bread and fruit until all has been used. 
Serve very cold with cream. This simple dish is delightful. 

SOUR MILK CORN MEAL GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
One-half cup of white corn meal and the same of flour, one and a 
half cups of loppered milk or buttermilk, one tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses and the same of melted butter, one rounded teaspoonful of soda 
and half as much salt sifted twice with flour and meal, one egg beaten 
very light. Beat molasses and butter to a cream; add the milk, the 
egg, lastly the prepared meal and flour. Beat hard one minute. 

BREAKFAST GRIDDLE CAKES. 
One quart of sour milk, one egg, butter the size of an egg, three 
teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder dissolved in a little hot 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 207 

water. Add the baking-powder gradually to the sour milk until it 
becomes frothy in stirring, then add the egg, well beaten, the butter, 
a little salt, and enough flour to make the batter sufficiently thick. 
Bake one first to test them. Bake on a griddle and serve hot. Sweet 
milk may be used in place of sour; put the baking-powder into the 
flour. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of Indian meal, one and a half cupfuls of sour 
milk, three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. Dissolve in a 
very little hot water and stir into the sour milk until it foams; add 
the other ingredients, beating the eggs well. Bake on a buttered 
griddle, and send to the table hot. 

MUSH BATTER CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of mush, one of flour, two eggs, a pinch of salt. Use 
sweet milk sufficient to make the batter of the right consistency. Add 
the eggs, well beaten, last. 

GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

To every cupful of grated sweet corn, allow one egg, one table- 
spoonful each of cream, butter and flour, and a little salt. Beat the 
egg well and mix with the other ingredients. Bake on a griddle, first 
cooking but one to test the consistency. Thicken with flour or thin 
with milk as the case may require. 

BLACKBERRY MUSH. 

Whenever wild berries can be had in abundance or the cultivated 
ones are not too expensive this dish forms an agreeable substitute for 
the usual hot breakfast cereal. To each quart of washed berries add 
one-half cupful of water, stew until soft and rub through a sieve. 
Aleasure and to each quart add one scant cupful of farina and a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of salt and cook in a double boiler for forty-five 
minutes, stirring frequently until smoothly thickened. Pour into a 
wetted mold and serve very cold with sugar and cream. 



Jo8 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



FRIED MUSH. 

Cut cold Indian meal mush in slices three-fourths of an inch 
thick; roll in flour and fry a golden brown in melted butter or drip- 
pings (beef). Graham mush may be fried in the same way. Either 
makes a very nice breakfast dish. Fried Indian meal mush is a nice 
accompaniment to some kinds of roast small birds. 

SAMP. 

Take the desired quantity of crushed or coarsely-ground Indian 
meal, called "Samp," and wash it well to remove the bran; this is 
done by pouring water on the meal, and stirring it with a large spoon 
so the bran will rise to the top; pour the water off through a sieve 
into another dish to save the water; repeat the process, using the same 
water, until all the bran has been separated from the meal. The 
same water may be used in which to boil it ; for a quart of the washed 
meal about four quarts of water will be required, and one table- 
spoonful of salt. The water should not be heated, but put on the 
meal cold when placed on the stove to cook; stir frequently to pre- 
vent scorching; five or six hours will be required for the cooking, 
allowing it to boil slowly. It should seem rather thin when done, for 
when cold it will be quite firm. In cooking, should more water be 
needed, be sure that boiling water be used. Serve hot or cold with 
milk, or milk and sugar, the same as Indian meal mush. 

BOILED HOMINY. 

The hominy should be soaked over night, whether the large or 
small kind be used. Boil in slightly salted water for three hours, 
allowing a pint of hominy for a quart of water. It is a nice break- 
fast dish served with sugar and cream. If it is to be served as a 
vegetable, stir butter, pepper and a little cream into it while it is hot, 
and serve in a warm dish. 

HULLED CORN. 

Take good ripe field corn and boil it in lye (lye from wood ashes 
preferred) sufficiently strong to remove the hulls, which will require 
about an hour and a half; then test a few kernels by rubbing them; 
if the hulls loosen, take the corn from the fire and wash in several 
waters to remove the hulls and lye ; then return to the fire in a clean 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 209 

kettle with plenty of cold water ; season with salt ; cook five or six 
hours until tender. When done skim out the corn. Serve warm or 
cold with milk or cream, the same as mush. Hulled corn may be 
fried, and sweetened or not, as preferred; served as a vegetable. 

TOAST. 

Bread for toast should not be too fresh. Cut the slices thin and 
let them be evenly so; remove the crust (which can be used for bread- 
ing). Toast over a clear fire, holding the toaster far enough from 
the coals and turning often enough so that the bread may warm 
through and dry a little before it begins to toast; then allow to be- 
come a light brown. 

MILK OR CREAM TOAST. 

Bread that has been baked several days is preferable for toasting. 
Cut as many slices of bread as will be required, and it will be found 
better to place them in the oven a short time before toasting them 
(leaving the door open) to warm. Toast a golden brown, and be 
careful not to scorch them. 

Have ready the milk, which has been allowed to heat slowly in a 
spider or saucepan ; season it to the taste with a little salt, add a gen- 
erous lump of butter, and when it comes to a boil, thicken with a 
little flour and water rubbed smooth together. Draw the spider to 
the side of the stove ; take each slice of toast, dip quickly the edges of 
crusts in hot water, and put the slices in the thickened milk; then 
place in a warmed, deep dish; do this quickly and one at a time. 
When all have been treated in this way, pour the thickened milk re- 
maining in the spider over the toast and send to the table. About a 
quart of milk will be required for six slices of bread. Allow the 
milk to cook very little after adding the thickening, or it will become 
starchy. Make it quite rich with butter. This will be found very 
nice in the absence of sweet cream, as a substitute for cream toast. 
The slices will be more convenient to serve if cut into halves. If 
cream is used very little butter will be required. If preferred, omit 
the thickening, prepare the slices of bread as for the above, place dry 
in a dish, pour the hot milk over them and serve hot. 

GREEN PEPPER TOAST. 

Slice bread thin, cut ofiF the crusts and toast on both sides to a deli- 
cate brown, then butter and keep hot in the oven. Heat a cup of beef 



2IO The New Lucile Cook Book. 

stock in the saucepan. Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and 
the same quantity of browned flour and stir it into the beef stock. 
When you have a very thick brown sauce add salt to taste and a halt 
cupful of green peppers vviiich have been seeded, freed from the tough, 
white core and minced very fine. Stir to a paste, remove from the 
fire and spread upon the slices of hot toast. Set in the oven long 
enough to become very hot and crisp, and serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 211 



PASTRY. 

Have all ingredients very cold. Into a pound of flour chop three- 
quarters of a cup of firm, cold butter. When the flour is like a coarse 
powder stir into it a small cupful of iced water. With a spoon mix 
together, then turn upon a floured pastry-board, roll out quickly and 
lightly, fold and roll out again. Set the pastry on the ice until chilled 
through, roll out and line a pie-dish with it. Before filling the pastry 
shell with fruit, or other material of which the pie is to be made, 
wash over the lower crust with the unbeaten white of an egg, and, 
when the filling is put in, set the pie immediately in an oven that is as 
hot at the bottom as at the top. The oven must be hot and steady. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

A good rule for plain pastry for ordinary family use is, one-fourth 
?.s much shortening as flour, whether it be butter, lard or clarified 
drippings. Work the shortening thoroughly into the flour and add 
a little salt ; wet with ice cold water, using as little as possible to make 
the crust roll out conveniently. Mix quickly; avoid unnecessary 
handling, and bake as soon as the pie can be prepared. 

TO ICE PASTRY. 

This is the usual method adopted for pies and tarts ; beat the white 
of an egg to a stiff froth, add a tablespoonful of sifted pulverized 
sugar, and stir smooth. When the pie is done, take it from the oven ; 
spread the meringue over it and return it to the oven for a few min- 
utes to set the icing. It is advisable to leave the oven door open, and 
watch carefully if the oven is very hot, for when done, the meringue 
should be only nicely set. 



212 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

PIES. 

" No soil upon eatth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in Terrestrial I'ies." 

MINCE-MEAT. 

One quart of apples, measured after chopping; one-fourth cupful 
of candied orange-peel, grated rind and juice of one lemon, one-fourth 
cupful of candied lemon-peel, grated rind and juice of one orange, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-fourth cupful of candied fruit, one- 
half teaspoonful of allspice, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, two pounds 
of lean beef, three cupfuls of raisins, one-half pound of citron, one- 
half cupful of molasses, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-half cupful of 
brandy, one pound of suet, one cupful of currants, one cupful of 
sugar, one-half cupful of sherry, one cupful of cider. 

Chop the beef and suet very fine, and mix. Add the chopped 
apples. Seed the raisins, chop the candied fruit, candied lemon and 
orange-peel, and slice the citron. Add to the meat and suet with the 
currants, spices and salt. Mix and add the sugar, molasses, lemon 
and orange juice; when well mixed add the brandy, sherry and cider. 
It should stand several days before using to ripen or blend, and should 
keep all winter. Two cupfuls of hard cider may be used in place of 
the brandy and sherry, and the quantities of beef, suet and apples may 
be doubled to the amount of fruit given, if desired. If this is done, 
be careful to add sufficient moistening, and remember that the liquor 
ii added to keep the mince-meat, not especially for flavoring, as the 
quantity is so small that this is disseminated in cooking. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
Into a quart of stewed and strained pumpkin stir a quart of milk, 
a cup of granulated sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, and, last 
of all, five eggs, well beaten. Mix thoroughly, and pour the mixture 
into a deep pie-plate lined with puff-paste. Bake in a good oven until 
the pumpkin custard is "set." Eat cold. Canned pumpkin is used 
in the same way, and is almost as good as the fresh. 

SQUASH PIE. 
Pare, take out the seeds and stew till the squash is very soft and 
dry. Strain through a colander. Mix rich milk with it till it is a 
very thin batter, and add sugar to taste, and a little salt. Allow four 
eggs to a quart of milk, beat the eggs well and add them to the 
squash. Season with a little brown ginger. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 213 

APPLE PIE. 

Choose ripe, tart and juicy apples. Pare, core and quarter them 
(if too large, cut the quarters in two). Line the pie-plate with a 
crust; fill with the apples; sprinkle liberally with sugar (half a tea- 
cupful or more, as the apples may require), a few bits of butter, and 
a little cinnamon or nutmeg, as may be preferred. Put in two or 
three tablespoonfuls of water, cover with upper crust, wetting the 
edges of the lower so they will stick together, cutting away portions 
of the crust not needed. Bake a light brown. Through slits that 
may be in the centre of the upper crust, test daintily with a fork, the 
apple, to see if it has become soft, as it should be before removing the 
pie from the oven. Serve cold, with or without white sugar sprinkled 
over it. Sweet cream is a delicious addition to apple pie; add when 
serving. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. 

Those who are fond of these pies may have very nice ones by 
soaking apples (and they should be good ones) over night with water 
sufficient to cover them ; in the morning stew until soft, and when 
cold, fill a pie-plate lined with crust, with the apples; sprinkle over 
them a small teacupful of sugar; a few bits of butter, and two or 
three thin slices of lemon ; or the apples may be mashed, then seasoned 
with the sugar, butter and nutmeg or cinnamon. Bake with an upper 
crust or with a lattice work, made with thin, narrow strips of paste. 
A few dried or canned raspberries, blackberries or huckleberries 
stewed with the apple, are an excellent addition to dried apple pie or 
dried apple sauce. 

CREAMED SWEET APPLE PIE. 

Pare, core and quarter Campfield pound sweets, or other sweet 
apples. Put them into a pudding-dish with a few spoonfuls of water 
to prevent burning, cover closely and cook until tender, but not 
broken. Add two tablespoonfuls of sugar to each cupful and let them 
get cold in the syrup. Then cut into thin slices or tiny dice. Roll out 
some puff-paste quite thin ; line a pie-plate, sprinkle with flour, lay on 
another crust and bake until brown. When ready to serve, open the 
crusts, spread the lower one with the stewed apple, cover with 
whipped cream, put on the top crust and sprinkle that with powdered 
sugar. 



214 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



PEACH PIE. 

Pare, halve and remove the stones from a sufficient number of 
peaches for the size of plate used ; as soon as each half is ready, put 
into cold water and allow to remain until ready to use, to prevent dis- 
coloring. Line a pie-plate with crust, pour the water from the 
peaches and nearly fill the shell with pieces cut into quarters, or once 
again if the peaches were large; add a few tzrblespoonfuls of water 
(and sweet cream, if convenient), sprinkle with a little flour, nearly 
a cupful of sugar and a few bits of butter ; cover with upper crust 
and bake. 

PEACH MERINGUE PIE. 

Prepare peaches and proceed as in recipe for "Peach Pie," omitting 
upper crust. Bake until crust and fruit are done, then bake with a 
meringue made of the whites of three eggs beaten stiff, and three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; have this ready when the crust is 
done ; cover quickly, brown and remove from the oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon (being careful not to 
grate through the yellow into the white lining, as it will make it 
bitter), one tablespoonful of corn starch, one cupful of sugar, one 
egg, a piece of butter the size of a small egg, and one cupful of boil- 
ing water. Put the water into a small saucepan and add the corn 
starch, stirred smooth in a little cold water; when it boils up after 
stirring it in, set it off the stove, add the butter and sugar, which 
have been previously well stirred together ; when cool, add the beaten 
egg and lemon. Bake with upper and under crust, or with the under 
crust ; then cover with a meringue and return to the oven and brown. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

Cream a tablespoonful of butter with a cupful of sugar; dissolve 
a heaping tablespoonful of corn starch in a gill of cold water, and 
stir it into a cupful of boiling water. Stir until smooth ; then pour 
over the sugar and butter. Mix well and when cool stir in the grated 
rind and the juice of a large lemon, and one beaten egg. Line a pie- 
plate with puff-paste, fill with this mixture and bake. When done, 
cover with a meringue, and return to the oven just long enough to 
brown lightly. 



THERE ARE MANY COFFEES BUT ONLY ONE 



MAUNA 



Stimulating as the perfume laden zephyrs of the Tropic Shores 
Pure as the kiss of childhood 



,. JMavina Coffee « 



All the savor and relish of choicest Java blended with Arabian 
Mocha. Properly prepared, is a drink for the Gods 

The exhilarating effect of a good cup of coffee will tide you 
over the most dismal day. 



IN 1-2 AND 5-LB. PACKAGES HAVING AN INNER SEAL 
BENEATH COVER, 35 CENTS PER LB. 



Acker, Merrall & Condit Company 



2i6 The New Lucile Cook Hook. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie-plate with crust and fill with the following: Three 
eggs, half a cupful of sugar (or more, if preferred sweeter), one tea- 
spoonful of flour and a little grated nutmeg; beat all very thoroughly 
together and add milk enough to fill the plate; then grate a very little 
nutmeg over the top, and bake until the custard is well set. To be 
eaten cold. 

CREAM PIE. 

Line a pie-plate with a nice crust and bake ; while hot fill the shell 
with the following, which has been thoroughly stirred together and 
cooked for five minutes: One pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, yolks of two eggs, one and a half tablespoonfuls of corn starch 
nnd a piece of butter half the size of a hickory nut; then cover with 
a meringue made with the well-beaten whites of the two eggs and two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, sprinkling the top with cocoanut. 
Then return to the oven and brown lightly. 

CREAM JELLY PIE. 

Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teacupful of rich 
cream, three tablespoonfuls of quince or currant jelly, and one table- 
spoonful of butter. Beat the yolks and whites separately, then beat 
all the ingredients well together, bake with an under crust; then cover 
with a meringue and return to the oven to brown. 

JELLY MERINGUE PIE. 

Cover the bottom of a pie-plate with pie-crust half an inch thick ; 
when done, and cold, split open carefully with a long-bladed, sharp 
knife. Lay the under crust on a plate and spread with jelly well 
beaten; then lay the upper crust top side down on the jelly-covered 
crust and spread that with jelly. Then cover with a meringue made 
with the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, well beaten together. This is for a small pie ; for a large one, 
one more white and another spoonful of sugar will be required. 

Should one be so unfortunate as to have pie-crust left when 
making pies, it can be used for the above pie; also different kinds of 
jelly, which have been cut for the table, may be put together, beaten 
hard, and used for the purpose, just as well, as to open fresh molds. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 217 

PUFF-PASTE RINGS. 

Roll out some good puff-paste to the thickness of one-fourth of an 
inch, and with a round, fluted paste-cutter, or any cutter preferred, 
stamp out as many pieces as may be required ; cut out with a smaller 
cutter sufficient pieces to correspond with the larger ones. Stamp out 
the centre of the smaller rings, brush over the others with the white 
of an egg; place a ring of paste on the top of every large circular 
piece of paste; egg over the tops and bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Sift over sugar and put them back in the oven to color 
them; then fill the rings with preserves, marmalades or jellies of 
bright color. Very many pretty dishes of pastry may be made by 
stamping out puff-paste and filling the pieces, when baked with jelly 
01 preserves. It is a good way to utilize the trimmings of puff-paste. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Cream together a cupful of butter and two cupfuls of sugar, stir 
in the beaten yolks of six eggs, the grated rind of one, and the juice 
of two lemons, a dash of nutmeg, a wineglassful of brandy, and the 
stiffened whites of the eggs. Line patty-pans with puff-paste, and fill 
with this mixture. Bake in a quick oven and serve cold. 

ORANGE PIE. 

The yolks of three eggs, beaten until quite light, five tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar, the juice of two and the grated rind of one 
orange, a little salt and one cupful of cream or milk. Mix all well 
together ; then add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, and stir lightly. 
If milk is used instead of cream, put in a small piece of butter. Bake 
with an under crust. 

RHUBARB OR PIE-PLANT PIE. 

Use an equal quantity of rhubarb and apple. Wash the rhubarb, 
strip off the skin and cut in thin slices. The apples should be pared, 
cored and sliced. Line the pie-plate with crust and fill with the rhu- 
barb and apple. Sprinkle over it three-fourths of a teacupful of sugar, 
a few bits of butter and a tablespoonful'of flour; cover with an upper 
crust. Wet the edges of the under crust and cut a few small gashes 
in and near the middle of the upper crust, and lay it over the pie; 
press it gently to the edge of the under crust and cut off the over- 



2i8 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



lapping portions. Be sure that the edges are well pressed together 
so that the juice will not escape. The pie may be made entirely of 
rhubarb, but on cupful of sugar will be required, and one well-beaten 
egg is an improvement. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One cupful of powdered sugar, two eggs, one-half cupful of but- 
ter, one small pineapple. 

Grate the pineapple. Beat the butter and sugar together until 
creamy, add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the pineapple. When 
well mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff, dry froth, mix 
lightly and turn into the pie-plate. Bake with an under crust only. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of milk, one-fourth cup- 
ful of cream, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, two eggs, one-half of 
a cocoanut, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Grate the cocoanut. Scald the milk; beat the yolks of the eggs 
light with the sugar, add the corn starch and mix with the scalded 
milk. Cook and stir until it thickens, take from the fire, add the 
cream and the cocoanut and put away until cool. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, add to the custard with the vanilla. 
Bake the bottom crust, brush it over with the whites of eggs, put in 
the custard and brown in a quick oven. Let the pie cool before 
serving. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One lemon, one cupful of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one-half cupful of raisins. 

Select large, soft raisins, and seed. Cover with one cupful of cold 
water and soak two hours. Beat the eggs until light with the sugar, 
add the juice and grated rind of the lemon and mix with the flour. 
Add the raisins and water in which they have been soaking, and cook 
until the mixture thickens. Bake in two crusts. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Beat together one tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of sugar 
and one egg until light. Add one cupful of milk and two cupfuls 
of flour into which have been sifted one teaspoonful of ginger, one 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 219 



teaspoonful of cinnamon and one-half teaspoonful of Sea Foam 
baking-powder. Beat thoroughly until smooth. Line the Washing- 
ton pie-plate with a plain paste, put the mixture into it and bake in 
a moderate quick oven thirty minutes. When done, cover with frost- 
ing and set to cool. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Look the berries over carefully and wash them. Line a pie-plate 
with a plain or puff-paste, as preferred, and strew over it a pint of 
huckleberries, heaping them in the middle ; there will then be room at 
the sides for the juices and consequently less likelihood of their escap- 
ing between the crusts while baking; sprinkle with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and a teacupful of sugar ; add the top crust, in the centre of 
which cut a gash an inch or two long to allow the steam to escape; 
trim the edges neatly with a sharp knife. Bake in a quick oven. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-plate with plain or puff-paste; carefully look over a 
pint of ripe blackberries ; put them in the pie-dish, keeping them a little 
in the middle of the dish ; dust with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and 
add a cupful of sugar. Make a paste of a teaspoonful of flour and 
a little water, with which brush over the edge of the under crust, to 
prevent the juice from escaping; add the upper crust and trim the 
superfluous crust from the edge with a sharp knife. Bake in a quick 
even. Dust with powdered sugar or cover with a thin meringue, 
made of the white of one egg and a tablespoonful of pulverized sugar, 
or omit both and eat plain. 

RASPBERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with good paste; look over carefully one pint of 
raspberries, spread them over the crust, keeping them in the centre, 
sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour and a teacupful 
of sugar; brush over the edge of the crust with a thin paste (made 
by stirring a teaspoonful of flour into a little water), add the top 
crust; trim the edges neatly with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick 
oven. Glaze with a thin meringue made of the beaten white of an 
egg and a tablespoonful of pulverized sugar; the meringue to be 
added just before taking the pie from the oven, where it should 
remain long enough to set the icing. 



220 Thh New Lucile Cook Book. 



STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Hull the berries, look them over carefully and avoid washing them 
if possible, for it injures their flavor. In fact, it would be well if no 
berries need be washed to remove the grit. Line a pie-plate with crust 
and fill with the berries; sprinkle liberally with sugar, a little flour 
and bits of butter; add a few tablespoonfuls of water; then lay over 
the upper crust, press the edges firmly, after wetting the under one 
to make them stick together. Bake in a moderately hot oven. When 
cold, dust with powdered sugar or not, as preferred. 

CREAMED STRAWBERRY TARTS. 

After picking over the berries carefully, arrange them in layers 
in a deep pie-tin lined with puff-paste, sprinkling sugar thickly be- 
tween each layer; fill the pie-tin pretty full, pouring in a quantity of 
the juice; cover with a thick crust, with a slit in the top, and bake. 

When the pie is baked, pour into the slit in the top of the pie the 
following cream mixture : Take a small cupful of the cream from the 
top of the morning's milk, heat it until it comes to a boil, then stir 
into it the whites of two eggs beaten light, also a tablespoonful of 
white sugar and a teaspoonful of corn starch wet in cold milk. Boil 
all together a few moments until quite smooth ; set it aside, and when 
cool pour it into the pie through the slit in the crust. Serve it cold, 
with powdered sugar sifted over it. 

Raspberry and blackberry may be made the same. 

CHERRY PIE. 

One quart of cherries, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of flour. 

Stone the cherries, saving all the juice. Add the sugar and the 
flour and stir until will mixed. Fill the pie-plate, lined with pastry, 
cover with the upper crust and bake. When canned cherries are used, 
take only half the juice to the same amount of cherries, sugar and 
flour. 

CHERRY TART. 

Pick the stems from fresh, ripe cherries, and stone them. Choose 
small, deep pie-dishes for tarts; place a small cup upside down in the 
middle of the dish and fill the pie-dish with the cherries, adding two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar and a level tablespoonful of flour. Lay 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 221 

ri border of either puff-paste or short crust around the edge, put on 
the top crust and ornament the edges; bake in a brisk oven from 
thirty to forty minutes. When done, take from the oven, cover with 
a thin meringue made of the whipped white of one egg and a large 
tablespoonful of pulverized sugar; return to the oven, leaving the 
door open long enough to set the icing. Or the tart may be served 
plain, or the crust may be dusted with pulverized sugar before serv- 
ing. Berries and currants make delicious tarts. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Pick over and wash the cranberries ; stew them in a porcelain-lined 
saucepan until well done ; sweeten to taste ; line a pie-plate with paste, 
fill with the stewed cranberries and bake with or without a top crust. 
''A lattice work of thin strips of paste is often used for these pies.) 
Cover with a meringue when baked, or dust with powdered sugar 
when serving. 

CRANBERRY TARTS. 

Make a cranberry sauce according to directions already given. 
Line patty-pans with pufF-paste ; fill with the cranberry sauce, lay strips 
of pastry, cross-wise, over the tops, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done sprinkle with granulated sugar and set away to cool. 

GREEN CURRANT PIE. 

One teacupful each of good-sized green currants, sugar and sweet 
cream. Line a pie-plate with a good crust; beat the egg; add the 
cream and sugar ; stir well together ; pour into the shell ; sprinkle with 
a few bits of butter, and dust a little flour over the currants and add 
them ; cover with an upper crust and bake. When cold, dust with 
powdered sugar. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Remove the tops and stems, and wash the gooseberries ; fill the pie- 
plate (which has been lined with crust), and sprinkle over them a 
heaping teacupful of sugar if the berries are very sour, a few bits of 
butter and a little flour. Cover with a top crust and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven. 

FRUIT TURN-OVERS. 

Make a crust as for pies and roll one-quarter of an inch thick ; cut 
out with a saucer-sized cutter; put the fruit on half of the circle, 



222 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



folding the other half over it. Wet the inside edges so'thej- will stick 
together. If the fruit used be thinly-sliced apples, sprinkle them with 
u little sugar and cinnamon, add a small piece of butter and a table- 
spoonful of water before folding over the crust; but if berries are 
used, flour, sugar and butter should be used. When ready for the 
oven brush them with the white of an egg. They will require from 
twenty to thirty minutes to bake. When done dust with powdered 
sugar. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Parboil, peel, and when cold, grate enough sweet potatoes to make 
a pound. Cream a half cupful of butter with three-quarters of a cup- 
ful of sugar and the beaten yolks of four eggs, a teaspoonful, each, of 
powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, the grated potato, the juice and rind 
of a lemon, a w'ineglassful of brandy and, last of all, the whites of 
the eggs. Line a large pie-plate with puff-paste, fill with the mixture 
and bake. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

The yolks of six eggs, quarter of a pound of butter, one pound of 
loaf sugar, the rinds and juice of four lemons. 

Melt the butter in an enameled saucepan, put in the butter, and 
when it has dissolved add the grated rind and strained juice of the 
lemons. Next beat up the yolks and strain them in and cook the mix- 
ture very slowly until it is like thick honey. Stir it all the time, and 
on no account let it boil. Pour it into dry, clean jars, and when it is 
cold cover tightly. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 223 

PUDDINGS, 

"The proof of the pudding is in the Eating." 

Puddings are valuable as a summer dish. They are mostly light 
and easily digested, besides being most agreeable to the taste, and 
many of them cool and refreshing. 

A pudding may be made as substantial a dish as one chooses, quite 
solid and nutritious enough to make a whole tea or luncheon, or light 
enough to be simply a delicious course with which to finish a meal. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Chop very fine one pound of beef suet ; mix well with two pounds 
of flour and two pounds of very fine bread crumbs; add two pounds 
of stoned raisins, two pounds of English currants, washed, dried and 
chopped fine; half a pound of candied lemon or orange-peel, shaved 
as fine as possible, three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder and 
a little salt. Put in spices, nutmeg and ground cloves, or any pre- 
pared spices to suit the taste; add one pint of brandy and one dozen 
eggs, well beaten. Mix these ingredients very thoroughly. Have a 
pudding cloth well floured, or a mold well buttered, and put the 
pudding in; boil constantly ten or twelve hours. This pudding will 
keep a long time, and can be warmed over by steaming. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, stoned and chopped fine; half a pound of 
sugar and a pinch of salt; one-quarter of a pound of mixed peel, 
chopped fine; half a pound of bread crumbs. Prepare all these in- 
gredients and mix with six well-beaten eggs and a gill of milk. But- 
ter a mold, fill with the pudding mixture, and tie in a cloth. The 
pudding is to be put on in boiling water and kept at the boil for five 
hours. Turn out on a napkin and sprinkle the top with white sugar. 
Serve with "Brandy Sauce" or plain cream. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

Two pounds each of raisins, currants, bread crumbs, flour, suet 
and sugar, one dozen of eggs, half a pound of candied peel of citron, 
two teaspoonfuls each of salt, allspice and cloves; two nutmegs, 
grated, four teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, and half a pint 



224 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

of brandy. Stone the raisins, cliop fine; wash, dry and chop the cur- 
rants; pick over the suet carefully, so as to get off skin and hard bits, 
and chop it very fine ; beat the eggs thoroughly ; grate the nutmegs ; 
chop the candied peel of citron fine and put the baking-powder into 
the flour. Mix ingredients thoroughly together, and put into a 
pudding cloth or bag, which has first been dipped in hot water, wrung 
out and well floured on the inside ; the water should be boiling when 
the pudding is put over, and it should boil steadily for five hours. Eat 
warm with sauce. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
This pudding is to be served with roast beef, and is made as fol- 
lows: Rub six large tablespoonfuls of flour to a smooth, stiff batter in 
half a pint of milk; beat thoroughly, and add very gradually one pint 
of milk, and three eggs well beaten ; add a little salt and beat the mix- 
ture a few minutes. Pour the batter into a shallow tin baking dish, 
which has been previously well rubbed with beef drippings. Bake 
half an hour; cut in squares, and serve with roast beef. If you have 
a roasting rack upon which to place your beef while baking, the pud- 
ding may be baked in the same baking-pan with the meat, and will 
be much improved by receiving the drippings from the beef. It should 
be put into the oven half an hour before the meat is done. 

A GOOD PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk, one pint of bread crumbs, soaked in the 
milk, one cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, and the grated yellow part of the rind of one 
lemon. Stir all the ingredients well together and put into an earthen 
pudding-dish. Bake about an hour; then cover with a meringue made 
of the whites of the eggs, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and 
the juice of the lemon. Beat the whites very stiff before adding the 
sugar and lemon. Bake a nice brown, and remove from the oven. 
Serve either warm or cold. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Butter a saucepan ; put one quart of milk into it, salted to taste ; 
when it boils, stir into it about a pint of flour, allowing it to sift 
slowly through your fingers, stirring briskly all the time ; add at the 
last two well-beaten eggs; stir quickly for a moment, and serve. 
Cream and sugar are the best sauce for this pudding. The pudding 



SEA FOAM 



THE BEST ABSOLUTELY PURE CREAM OF 
TARTAR BAKING PO^A^DER IN THE WORLD 

Baking Powder 






Used by the 
Army and Navy, 
the best Hotels 
and Restaurants, 
the Department 
of Health of 



■9 




Greater New 
York and large 
institutions.Used 
and strongly en- 
dorsed by the 
best families 
throughout the 
United States. 



HIGHLY RECOMMENDED BY 



Acker, Merrall & Condit Company 



TO THEIR CUSTOMERS 



226 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



i> not apt to be lumpy if the flour is first stirred smooth in a little 
cold milk, and then added to the boiling milk, but it is not as light as 
when the flour is stirred, dry, into the boiling milk. If preferred, or 
more convenient, omit the eggs. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 
Heat a quart of milk to scalding, and beat into it gradually three 
cupfuls of Indian meal, into which you have stirred a scant teaspoon- 
ful of salt. When the meal is thoroughly beaten in and is free from 
lumps, add two heaping tablespoonfuls of powdered suet and remove 
from the fire. Turn into a bowl and set aside to cool. When the 
meal-mixture is very cold beat in four whipped eggs, a gill of 
molasses and a half teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Beat for five 
minutes and pour into a greased pudding mold with a closely fitting 
top. Boil for five hours, turn out upon a heated platter and set in 
the oven for five minutes before sending to the table. Eat with a 
hard or liquid sauce. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Make a baking-powder crust as for biscuit; roll thin and cut in 
circular form three inches in diameter. Have ready, pared, quar- 
tered and cored (or remove the core and peel, leaving the apple 
whole) some good tart apples; place on the crust in an upright posi- 
tion four large quarters, or one whole apple ; bring the crust together 
at the top and pinch together close. Lay the dumplings in buttered 
baking dishes, and bake one hour, or until the apples are tender. Serve 
with "Sauce for Apple Dumpling." 

FRUIT DUMPLING. 
Here is a simple recipe for a nice light currant dumpling, a food 
which is sustaining, easily digested and economical. Six ounces of 
beef suet, finely shredded ; eight ounces of currants, washed, picked 
and dried ; one pound of flour, two level teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam 
baking-powder. Mix the flour, baking-powder, currants and suet. 
Add a grating of nutmeg, a pinch of salt and sufficient water to make 
into a stiff dough. Mold the dough into a big ball, handling as little 
as possible. If the dumpling is to be boiled, tie it in a floured cloth 
and set it on in plenty of boiling water. Two hours should be allowed 
for the cooking. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 227 



STEAMED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Pare, quarter and core a dozen good-sized apples and place in a 
buttered pudding-dish. Make a crust as for "Baked Apple 
Dumpling"; roll three-fourths of an inch thick; put on the top of the 
apples; place in a steamer over a kettle of hot water, and steam an 
hour and a half. Serve with "Sauce for Apple Dumpling." 

SUET PUDDING. 

Slightly warm and stir together one cupful of molasses and one 
of suet, freed from strings and powdered. Have ready a cupful of 
seeded and minced raisins and two even cupfuls of flour, sifted with 
three even teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder and a saltspoon- 
ful of salt. Beat two eggs light, add to the warmed mixture, season 
with mace and cinnamon, put in the flour, lastly the fruit. Pour into 
a buttered mold and steam nearly three hours. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter the mold or basin in which the pudding is to be boiled, and 
stew over the bottom of it one ounce of candied peel, cut in small 
pieces, and a cupful of large, fine raisins ; on these place a layer of 
sponge cake, cut in thin slices; put a few drops of melted butter on 
each side of cake, and scatter a layer of English currants over the 
whole; then add another layer of sponge cake and more currants; 
proceed in this way until the dish is nearly full. Now flavor a pint of 
milk with some grated lemon-peel; add four eggs well beaten, and 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the mixture thoroughly; then 
strain it into the mold, which should be quite full. Let the pudding 
stand for two hours; then tie a cloth over the top, or cover closely; 
set in boiling water, and let boil for one hour. Let stand for a few 
minutes after taking it up before removing the cover; then turn 
quickly out of the mold or basin. Serve with 'Truit Sauce" or "Wine 
Sauce." 

BAKED CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, a small teaspoonful of butter, 
one quart of milk, a scant teacupful of sugar, three eggs and a little 
jelly or jam. Add the sugar and butter to the milk, and heat to boil- 
ing; stir in the corn starch, 'rub smooth in a little cold milk; boil a 
few minutes, stirring constantly; remove from the stove, and stir in 



228 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



thoroughly the beaten yolks of the eggs; pour into a buttered pudding- 
dish, then place in. a moderately hot oven for about fifteen or twenty 
minutes; then take from the oven; spread over it the jelly or jam — 
four or five tablespoonfuls will be required ; cover with a meringue of 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stifiE with three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar. Return to the oven to become a delicate brown. Eat 
cold with sweetened cream. 

FRUMENTY. 

Cook a cupful of raw rice with two cupfuls of hot water in the 
inner vessel of a double boiler for half an hour. Then turn it into 
three cupfuls of milk heated in the double boiler, and cook until very 
tender. Stir in one level teaspoonful of salt and one level tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Beat two eggs light wath two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and stir this into the hot rice when you take it from the fire. 

Rub to a light cream two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar with one 
of butter and season w'ith cinnamon. Turn the hot rice into a deep 
dish, spread this sauce smoothly over the top, and serve. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Soak half a teacupful of rice over night in a pint of milk; in the 
morning add a pint of milk and set on the stove, allowing it to heat 
very slowly until scalding hot ; remove from the stove ; add the yolks 
of four eggs, well beaten, a teacupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and a little grated nutmeg; stir the ingredients well together 
and bake until the pudding is well set, but do not allow to whey; 
cover with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs. Eat cold or 
warm as preferred. Raisins may be added to this pudding if desired, 
but it is more delicate without them. 

RICE CUSTARD. 
Half a cupful of rice, soaked in one and a half cupfuls of water 
until fully swelled ; add a pint of milk and boil slowly to a jelly; then 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs and four tablespoonfuls of sugar to 
the rice while boiling; turn into a baking dish, set into the oven for a 
few minutes ; then cover with a meringue made with the beaten whites 
of the three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of pwdered sugar; remove 
from the oven as soon as it becomes a delicate brown. Serve cold. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 229 

ROLLY-POLY PUDDING. 

Make a dough as for biscuit and roll it about a fourth of an inch 
thick. Spread over it — leaving an inch uncovered at the edges — almost 
any kind of fruit, berries, cherries, jam or marmalade. Roll it up 
quite tight. Sew the pudding in a cloth, leaving room for it to rise. 
Boil or steam an hour, if the pudding is of medium size. Serve with 
any pudding sauce preferred, or sugar and cream may be passed. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

A small-sized box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of boiling 
water. Add two cupfuls of sugar and the juice of two lemons; strain 
and put into a cool place until it begins to stiffen ; then add the whites 
of two eggs, well beaten. When perfectly mixed put into a mold ; 
make a soft custard of the yolks of the two eggs, one pint of milk, and 
sugar and salt to taste ; pour around the pudding when served. 

AN OLD-FASHIONED BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak a pint of fine crumbs in a quart of milk, and when they have 
soaked for two hours, stir in four well-beaten egg yolks, two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, a scant half teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
ik a little boiling water and a pinch of nutmeg. Last of all, fold in 
lightly the stiffened whites of the eggs. Bake in a well-greased 
pudding-dish, cover for half an hour, then uncover and brown. Send 
to the table as soon as done and eat with hot wine sauce. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Stir into a cupful of yellow corn meal a half teaspoonful of salt; 
pour gradually upon the salted meal two cupfuls of boiling water, 
and beat until free of lumps. Have ready heated in a large double 
boiler five cupfuls of milk, and into this stir the scalded meal. Boil 
for an hour. Whip four eggs very light, and into them a gill of 
molasses, a tablespoonful of melted butter, and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful, each, of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg. Now remove 
the boiled meal from the fire and add it very slowly, beating steadily, 
to the egg mixture. Turn all into a deep, greased pudding-dish and 
bake, covered, for nearly an hour. Uncover and brown. Serve the 
pudding from the dish in which it was baked. Eat with hard sauce 
flavored with lemon juice. 



230 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Butter an earthen baking dish ; put a layer of chopped apples 
(juicy, sour ones preferred) at the bottom ; sprinkle with sugar, cinna- 
mon and a few bits of butter; cover with fine bread crumbs. Pro- 
ceed in this manner until the dish is full, having a layer of bread 
crumbs on top. Cover close, and bake about three- fourths of an hour; 
then remove cover and allow to become a nice brown. To be eaten 
warm, with a hard sauce of butter and sugar, or a sweet liquid sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one cupful of white sugar, 
one egg, a light pint of flour, with three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam 
baking-powder sifted in; one cupful of sour milk. Mix butter and 
sugar well together; add beaten egg and flour, then the milk. For 
one loaf. Sauce for same: One and three-fourths cupfuls of pow- 
dered sugar and half a cupful of butter, stirred well together; then 
add three-fourths of a cupful of wine (Madeira or sherry are better). 
Put the mixture into a tin pail and put in a kettle of boiling water, 
stirring briskly all the time until hot. For the above pudding, pieces 
of stale cake may be steamed and used. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, two eggs, six 
Boston crackers, powdered fine, half a pound of raisins, half a nut- 
meg, grated, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and a little salt. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, 
stone and flour the raisins; mix all the ingredients together; pour into 
a buttered pudding-dish and bake slowly two hours. Serve with or 
without meringue, as preferred. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

There are two kinds of custard pudding, the one made with the 
whites of eggs, the other with yolks. It is desirable to select that 
kind which uses the eggs left by other dishes. The proportion and 
the mode of cooking are the same for both. Six whites (whites or 
yolks) ; if whites, beat to a froth; one cupful of cream, a little sugar, 
a very little salt, and two tablespoonfuls of sour wine, or a flavor of 
bitter almonds or lemon. Steam slowly in a mold (which should 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 231 

stand in a kettle of cold water for about twenty minutes). If the 
water is allowed to boil, the pudding will be tough, instead of elastic 
and light. Serve with a fruit sauce. 

FIG AND RAISIN PUDDING. 

Soak a large cupful of bread crumbs in a cupful of milk for an 
hour; stir into them three eggs, beaten very light, three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered suet, and three tablespoonfuls of flour sifted with 
a teaspoonful of Sea Foam baking-powder. Have ready a half cup- 
ful of minced figs and the same quantity of seeded and quartered 
raisins. Mix the fruit together, dredge thoroughly with flour, and 
stir it into the pudding batter. Pour the mixture into a large pud- 
ding mold with a closely fitting top, leaving an abundance of room 
in the mold for the pudding to swell. Steam for fully three hours. 
Turn from the mold, set the pudding in the oven for five minutes, 
and serve with a liquid sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Soak half a cupful of sago in a cupful of cold water for two 
hours. Drain, put into the inner vessel of a farina kettle with a 
quart of hot milk, and simmer until the sago is clear, stirring up 
from the bottom several times. Add, then, a tablespoonful of butter, 
four of sugar, a good pinch of salt and three eggs beaten light. 
Beat all well and turn into a buttered bake-dish. Bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. 

Eat hot with sauce, or cold with cream. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one-half cupful of sugar, two cup- 
fuls of sour milk, one quart of cherries, one egg, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, two cupfuls of flour, or enough to make batter as thick as 
for cake. 

Stone the cherries. Beat the eggs light without separating, add 
the sugar gradually and, when light, the butter, melted. Dissolve 
the soda in a little warm water, add to the sour milk, and add this to 
the batter alternately with the flour. Beat until light and smooth, 
add the cherries, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 



232 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



FRUIT TAPIOCA. 

Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one-third cup of cold water, two 
ciipfuls of milk, yolks of two eggs, one-half cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of peaches, pinch of salt, two or three drops of vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water for one hour. Scald the milk, 
add the tapioca and cook until clear. Add the j'olks of the eggs 
beaten light with the sugar; cook for five minutes, take from the 
fire, add the fruit, salt and vanilla. Mix well and cool. Other 
fruits or a mixture of several may be used at pleasure. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Cream together a cupful of butter and the same quantity of 
powdered sugar. Beat six eggs light and stir them into the butter 
and sugar. When thoroughly blended add three cupfuls of pre- 
pared flour and the grated peel of two lemons. 

Have already prepared a half pound of seeded and halved rais- 
ins, eight minced figs and a quarter of a pound of minced citron. 
Mix these, dredge them thoroughly with flour and stir into the 
batter. Boil in a very large mold for three hours. This is an ex- 
cellent company pudding and is a large one. Eat with hot liquid 
sauce. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Half a grated cocoanut, one quart of milk, three eggs, one tea- 
cupful of sugar, and any flavoring preferred. Beat the yolks and 
whites separatelJ^ Bake about three-quarters of an hour, or until 
the custard is well set; then remove from the oven, and cover with a 
meringue ; then return to the oven to brown. Serve cold. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding mold and sprinkle the bottom with chopped 
raisins, citron and currants; add a layer of sponge cake and sprinkle 
lightly with ground cinnamon and cloves. Alternate these layers 
until the mold is almost full. Beat four eggs until light, add one 
quart of milk and a little salt and four tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Pour over the cake. Let all stand one hour and then steam 
for one and a half hours and serve with a currant jelly sauce. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 233 



A RICH LEMON PUDDING. 

Required: Half a pound of flour, half a pound of fresh, white 
bread crumbs, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, half a pound 
of Demerara sugar, three lemons, three eggs. Mix the crumbs and 
flour, chop the suet finely, using some of the flour, etc., to prevent it 
sticking to the knife. Mix the suet and sugar with the flour and 
crumbs. Add the grated rinds of three lemons and the juice. The 
latter must be strained. Well beat the eggs, and then add them to the 
other ingredients, mixing all very thoroughly. Put the mixture into 
a well-greased mold or basin. Twist a piece of greased paper over 
the top, and steam the pudding steadily for four hours. Serve it 
turned out on a hot dish with lemon sauce. If liked the pudding 
could be boiled instead of steamed. It will then only take about two 
and a half hours to cook, but will hardly be as light. The above 
quantities would make a large pudding. 

APPLE MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Four cupfuls of well-sweetened apple sauce, run through a 
colander and beaten with an egg-whisk until light and creamy. 
One cupful of fine bread crumbs; three eggs; one glass of sherry; 
one tablespoonful of butter (melted) ; juice of a lemon and half the 
grated rind ; mace and cinnamon to taste. Mix crumbs, apple 
sauce and melted butter well together, add the seasoning, the lemon, 
and finely the beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat hard for one minute, 
turn into a buttered pudding-dish and bake, covered, for half an 
hour. Draw to the oven door and spread with a meringue made of 
the stiffened whites of the eggs. Eat ice-cold with cream. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cupful of tapioca soaked over night in a pint of water. In 
the morning add one quart of milk, stirring gently, and boil about 
twenty minutes; then add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, two 
teacupfuls of sugar, and a little butter, and allow to boil a few min- 
utes longer; flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla, and pour into an 
earthen dish; cover with meringue made of the whites of four eggs, 
beaten stifE, and four tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar. Serve cold. 



234 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



BAKED ORANGE PUDDING. 

Make a batter of two eggs, a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of 
melted butter and about three cupfuls of flour into which have been 
sifted two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder. Peel, seed 
and cut into bits four oranges; beat these into the batter and bake 
in a greased pudding-dish in a hot oven. Serve with hot liquid sauce. 

DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Boil one-half a cake of chocolate in a quart of milk. When 
quite dissolved, pour over one pint of bread crumbs and let it stand 
for one hour. Now mash through a colander or sieve until a per- 
fectly smooth mass is obtained. Add four well-beaten eggs, a cup of 
butter, two cups of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, one cup of seeded 
raisins, and one cup of blanched almonds. Steam one hour. Serve 
with cream. 

CHOCOLATE MERINGUE PUDDING. 

For a small pudding use one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls and 
a half of corn starch, one ounce of chocolate, two eggs, five table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Mix the corn starch with one gill of the milk. Put the remain- 
der of the milk on to boil in the double boiler. Scrape the chocolate. 
When the milk boils, add the corn starch, salt and chocolate, and 
cook for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs with three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Pour the hot mixture on this, and beat well. 
Turn into a pudding-dish that will hold about a quart, and bake for 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, and gradually 
beat in the remaining two tablespoonfuls of sugar and the vanilla. 
Spread this on the pudding, and return to the oven. Cook for fif- 
teen minutes longer, but with the oven door open. Serve either cold 
or hot. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE! 

Half a pint of milk, two ounces of chocolate, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one rounding tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, four eggs. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 235 



Put the milk in the double boiler, and place on the fire. Beat the 
butter to a soft cream, and beat the flour into it. Gradually pour the 
hot milk on this, stirring all the time. Return to the fire, and cook 
for six minutes. Put the shaved chocolate, sugar and two table- 
spoonfuls of water in a small pan over a hot fire, and stir until 
smooth and glossy. Stir this into the mixture in the double boiler. 
Take from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; then 
set away to cool. When cool, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Pour the batter into a well-buttered earthen dish that 
will hold about a quart, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty- 
two minutes. Serve immediately with vanilla cream sauce. 

CHERRY CREAM PUDDING (EXCELLENT). 

One-half ounce gelatine, one-half pint cream, one-half pint milk, 
two ounces preserved cherries, whisked white of one egg, a few drops 
vanilla or almond extract, two ounces castor sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen 
minutes, and then dissolve slowly over the fire with the sugar. Strain 
into a basin, and when a little cool add the vanilla. Whip the cream 
and add it with the remaining milk, and then incorporate gradually 
the whisked white of egg. When beginning to set, sprinkle in the 
cherries (cut in halves), and stir for a few minutes before molding. 
When firm, turn out and serve. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Soak two cupfuls of crushed crackers, very fine, in a quart of 
hot milk, and stir in a double boiler over the fire until it smokes. 
Then put in a tablespoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of Sea Foam 
baking-powder and four beaten eggs. Turn into a greased pudding- 
dish and bake until the custard is set. Send to table at once, and 
cat with hard sauce. 

VICTORIA PUDDING. 

Stir the well-beaten yolks of five eggs with one pint of apple 
sauce that has been strained, flavored and sweetened ; then add one 
spoonful of flour, one of butter, and the grated yellow part of the 
rind of a lemon (the white being bitter). Line an earthen pudding- 
dish with a crust, put the pudding into it and bake until the crust is 
done; then cover with a meringue of five whites, five tablespoon fuls 



236 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



of powdered sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the whites 
very stiff before adding sugar and lemon. Bake a delicate brown, 
and remove from the oven. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Heat a pint of milk to scalding in a double boiler. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs stiff — setting the whites in the icebox until 
they are needed for a meringue. Into the whipped yolks stir three 
tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and pour the scalding milk 
gradually upon these. Return to the fire and cook, stirring all the 
time, until the custard is thick enough to coat the spoon. Remove 
from the fire, and, when the custard is cool, flavor with a teaspoon- 
full of vanilla and turn into a glass bowl. Whip the chilled whites 
to a stiff meringue and beat into this, a little at a time, three table- 
spoonfuls of red jelly — catawba grape or currant. The meringue 
should be pink in color, and may be heaped upon the top of the cus- 
tard in the bowl. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

A pretty way to arrange blanc-mange is to mold it in small cups, 
then place a mold of jelly in the centre of a platter, with the molds 
of blanc mange around it. Sweetened cream should be served with 
it. To half of the blanc-mange chocolate enough to flavor may be 
added, then every other mold will be brown, making a nice effect. 

BOILED RICE WITH MILK AND EGG. 

Wash a cupful of rice and cook in an abundance of boiling water 
slightly salted until tender, but not pasty. Drain off every drop 
of the water, shaking the rice in a colander. Return the cereal to 
the fire in a double boiler and stir into it a quart of boiling milk, 
into which three beaten eggs have been gradually whipped. Cook 
gently for a few minutes, or until much of the milk has been ab- 
sorbed. Eat with sugar and cream. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 237 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

SAUCE FOR APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch (or sifted flour), and a little lemon juice or a sprinkling 
of nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; then add the corn 
starch ; mix thoroughly, and pour in one cupful of water, boiling hot, 
stirring constantly; add flavoring, and if you like have a gill of vnne. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Take a piece of butter the size of an egg, and two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar ; beat them to a cream ; add the well-beaten yolk of one egg, 
and a tablespoonful of corn starch ; mix well together. Put a cupful 
of boiling water on the stove ; add to it a little powdered cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Let the spices boil a few minutes in the water; then 
stir in the butter, well mixed with the other ingredients. Stir with- 
out ceasing until it is just ready to come to a boil; then remove at 
once or it will curdle and be spoiled. Flavor with two tablespoonfuls 
of good brandy. 

FOAM SAUCE. 

One cupful of powdered sugar and two eggs. Beat the sugar and 
yolks together in a bowl ; set in boiling water, and stir until hot ; then 
add the whites, beaten stiff. Put a small piece of butter and a table- 
spoonful of brandy in a dish ; pour over them the sugar and eggs just 
before serving. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Boil together for ten minutes three-fourths of a cupful of sugar 
and one-half cupful of water. Run through a vegetable press one 
pint of strawberries, and when the syrup is cool, add the strawberry 
pulp and one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

Obtain the juices of any ripe berries or larger fruit in a saucepan 
with a very little water, for a little while ; then strain through a thin 
cloth, but do not squeeze; add a teaspoonful of corn starch for a '^ 
pint of juice; sweeten to taste, and, if liked, flavor with wine or 
lemon juice. Let boil two or three minutes. The juice of canned 
fruit may be used, and will not need more sweetening. 



WE HAVE SOLD 



COX'S GELATINE 



FOR OVER FIFTY YEARS 



WE STILL SELL IT 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 239 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Boil together a half cupful of sugar and a cupful of water for 
five minutes; stir in four tablespoonfuls of chocolate dissolved in 
a gill of milk, and a tablespoonful of arrowroot dissolved in four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Boil for five minutes^ longer, stir- 
ring steadily, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and a dash of cinnamon, 
and serve. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Work two tablespoonfuls of butter and a cupful of powdered 
sugar to a white cream, then beat in the juice of a lemon and a 
pinch of nutmeg. Set in a cold place until needed. 

PLUM PUDDING SAUCE. 

One glassful each of Madeira brand}^ two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and sugar to taste. Put the sugar, butter, and a part of the 
brandy, into a saucepan; set on the stove, stirring until the butter 
and sugar are melted; then add the Madeira and the remainder of 
the brandy. Pour over the pudding or serve in a sauce bowl. 

SAUCE FOR BAKED PUDDINGS. 

One egg and one cupful of sugar beaten very light; pour on, 
very slowly, one cupful of boiling milk, stirring constantly while do- 
ing so. Flavor with grated nutmeg, or any extract. 

SAUCE FOR STEAM PUDDINGS. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, and two cupfuls of 
sweet milk; just scalded. Cream the butter and sugar; add the 
milk; then, just before sending to the table, the well-beaten white of 
an egg. 

SUET PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cupful of sugar and half a cupful of butter beaten to a 
cream; then add one beaten egg, and one teaspoonful of fllour; just 
before sending to the table, add three-fourths of a teacupful of boil- 
ing water, and boil a minute, or until clear. 

PLAIN WHIPPED CREAM. 

Add to one cupful of "double" cream, one-half cupful of pow- 
dered sugar, and one teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla. Put in a 



240 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

bowl and set in a larger bowl of cracked ice. Chill the whip, for 
everything must be very cold; whip until stiff and dry, then add 
the beaten white of one egg. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Beat well the yolks of six eggs, add one tablespoonful of sugar, 
half a pint of sherry, and the grated yellow part of the rind of a 
lemon. Warm until the sauce is about the consistency of cream. If 
brandy is used instead of wine, it must be diluted with water, and the 
juice of a lemon added. A little more sugar will be required if lemon 
is used. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

Add one well-beaten egg to one-half pint of milk. Sweeten to 
taste. Pour the mixture into a double boiler and cook over water 
until it begins to thicken ; take from the fire and add one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Serve hot. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 241 



CAKE. 

" Cookery is a icience ; No man is born a Cook.'' 

POUND CAKE. 

Take of butter, sugar and flour one pound each; ten eggs and 
four tablespoonfuls (one wineglass) of brandy. Beat the butter 
and sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and beat 
ten minutes more; now add the flour and stir until stiff and smooth; 
add the brandy and whites of the eggs, beaten stiff; beat all together 
until a smooth mass, the longer it is beaten the lighter the cake will 
be — at least thirty minutes' steady beating is required.' It will be 
observed that neither soda nor cream of tartar, nor baking-powder 
is used in this cake; the lightness depends upon the amount of beat- 
ing, the eggs and the baking. Bake one hour, having the heat of 
the oven quite moderate the first fifteen minutes, after which time it 
should be more brisk. Those round baking-tins having a tin tube in 
the centre are liked for large loaves of cake. 

RAISED CAKE. 

When ready for the tins, take two cupfuls of raised dough, and 
mix thoroughly into the following ingredients : Two cupfuls of sugar 
and one cupful of butter beaten together; one cupful of sweet milk, 
two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved 'in a little hot water, and one cupful of fruit (if English 
currants, they should be washed and dried ; if raisins, they should be 
seeded and chopped fine, and both floured) ; use ground cinnamon 
and cloves to suit the taste, though a teaspoonful of cinnamon and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of cloves will be found quite right for most 
people. Let it rise in the baking-tin until very light, then bake. When 
the dough will not adhere to a clean broom splinter, if pierced with 
it, it is done. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One and a half pounds of flour, one and three-quarter pounds of 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, six eggs, half a pint of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one pound of raisins, one of 
English currants, half a pound of citron, half a gill of brandy, one 
gill of wine, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, two of cinnamon, and 



242 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

two nutmegs grated. Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk, 
first putting in it soda dissolved in a little hot water; stir in the flour; 
then add the eggs, the yolks first, well beaten, then the whites beaten 
stiff; after which, add the remainder of the ingredients. The raisins 
should be seeded and chopped, the currants washed and dried, and 
the citron chopped fine; flour all the fruit. For frosting allow five 
tablespoonfuls of sugar to each white of an egg. Bake in one large 
pan or several small ones as preferred. This cake is better several 
weeks or months old. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound each of sugar, butter, citron and currants, two pounds 
of raisins, one and a half pounds of flour, two-thirds of a teacupful 
of brandy, twelve eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, the same of salt and 
one cupful of molasses. Divide the flour into two equal parts, into one 
part put the following spices: One teaspoonful of cinnamon, one nut- 
meg, grated, one-quarter teaspoonful of cloves and two-thirds of a 
teaspoonful of allspice. Mix the fruit thoroughly with the remaining 
half of the flour. Cream the butter and sugar in the cake bowl ; add 
the eggs, beaten light ; dissolve the soda in a little warm water ; stir 
it into the molasses, and pour into the cake bowl; add the flour and 
spices; stir smooth, then put in the flour and fruit; stir the batter 
until thoroughly mixed, then pour into baking-tins lined with but- 
tered paper. This will make two very large loaves. Bake in a 
moderate oven for two hours. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Two and a half cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of sweet milk, four cupfuls of flour, six eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
Sea Foam baking-powder. Sift the flour and baking-powder 
together at least three times. Put the butter and sugar together in 
the cake bowl and rub them to a cream ; add the milk, then the flour, 
a little at a time, and beat smooth; now break in the eggs, one at a 
time, stirring and beating the batter well after each egg. Bake in a 
moderate oven. This recipe makes a very nice layer cake. 

NUT CAKE. 

Cream one cupful of butter with two cupfuls of sugar ; add a cup- 
lul of cold water, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a half teaspoon- 

V 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 243 

ful of ground mace and cinnamon, mixed, and three cupfuls of pre- 
pared flour, stirred in alternately with the stiffened whites of the 
eggs. Do not get the batter too stiff. Now add two cupfuls of 
hickory-nut kernels, thoroughly dredged with flour. Stir in quickly 
and turn at once into a well-greased loaf-tin. Bake in a steady oven, 
covering the cake with brown paper for the first half hour it is in the 
oven. When a straw comes out clean from the thickest part it is 
done. When cold, turn out, and cover with a plain white-of-egg 
icing. Arrange half-kernels of hickory nuts at regular intervals on 
the top of the icing. 

FIG CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar (dark brown), one cupful of butter, one 
of water, one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and four 
eggs, two cupfuls of chopped raisins, half a glass of wine, one pound 
of figs, chopped, two cupfuls of English currants, washed and dried, 
three cupfuls of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking- 
powder. Bake in layers, which, in putting together alternate with 
layers made from the following: Two cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths 
of a cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, one of corn starch, 
two of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and the whites of 
six eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, four eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and a little grated lemon-peel. Stir the sugar and 
yolks of the eggs thoroughly together; add the flour and rind of half 
a lemon, grated fine, being careful not to grate through into the 
white, bitter part ; lastly add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake 
in lady finger tins, lined with buttered paper. Sprinkle with a little 
powdered sugar daintily, just before putting into the oven, which 
should not be too hot, for the lady fingers should be of a delicate 
brown. In the absence of tins, sheets of white paper may be put in 
St large tin, and the dough given the required shape by squeezing it 
through a paper funnel. 

LAYER CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of butter, three- 
fourths of a cupful of sweet milk, one and a half cupfuls of flour, one 
egg and two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder. 



244 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two eggs, three- 
fourths of a cup of cold water, two cupfuls of flour, and three tea- 
spoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder. Bake in three tins and put 
together in layers, with jelly made with three-fourths of a cupful of 
sugar, one egg, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon, thoroughly 
stirred and cooked over steam. A sour grated apple may be added 
to the abov^ jelly, before it is cooked, then a full teacupful of sugar 
will be required. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

For the light part : One and a half cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful 
of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam 
baking-powder, two and a half cupfuls of flour, and the whites of four 
eggs. For the dark part : One cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful 
of molasses, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of sour milk, half 
a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two and a 
half cupfuls of flour, yolks of four eggs, and spice to taste. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Half a cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three of flour, one 
oi sweet milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder 
and the juice of one orange. Sift the baking-powder well into the 
flour; cream the butter and sugar, add the milk, the flour, the well- 
beaten egg and the orange juice. Bake in layers, and put together 
with icing and very thin slices of orange; also covdr the top with 
icing. ' 

PLAIN CAKE. * 

Half a cupful of sugar, one-fourth of a cupful of butter, one egg, 
three-fourths of a cupful of sweet milk, one pint of flour, one and a 
half teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder. Beat hard and bakj 
quickly. 

SILVER CAKE 

Whites of four eggs, beaten st'ifi, one cupful of sugar, half a cup- 
ful of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of flour, two- 
thirds of a cupful of corn starch and two teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam 
baking-powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the milk, 
the flour, corn starch and baking-powder; 'after mixing them thor- 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 245 



oughly together, add, lastly, the whites of the eggs. Bake in a well- 
buttered cake tin, and put a thin white paper in the bottom of the 
tin. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, beaten three minutes; then add one and a half cup- 
fuls of sugar and beat five minutes more; add one cupful of flour and 
beat one minute more; then half a cupful of warm water, stirring 
lightly, and another cupful of flour; stir briskly before putting into 
the cake tins. Use one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam 
baking-powder, sift it thoroughly in the flour. It is better to use the 
long, narrow cake tins. 

VANITY CAKES. 

Two eggs, beaten well, a little pinch of salt, and all the flour that 
can be worked into the eggs with the hands, and roll out. The dough 
will be very stiff and difficult to roll out. Roll the whole quantity at 
first thin enough for wafe'-s; then cut out with a small biscuit cutter; 
take each one and roll as thin as possible, and fry in hot drippings or 
lard. Test the fat to see if hot enough, by putting in a sm^ni bit of 
bread; if it quickly browns it will be all right. These cakes should 
be a very delicate brown, and crisp, with little "bubbles" all over 
them; they are worth the trouble and will please the children. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound each- of powdered sugar, butter, flour and English 
currants; half a pound each of seeded raisins, chopped, and citron; 
twelve eggs; whites and yolks beaten separately; one teaspoonful of 
cloves, one of cinnamon, and two of grated nutmeg. Cream the but- 
ter and sugar together, flour the raisins and currants, and stir all the 
ingredients well together. Bake in large, square tins, lined with but- 
^tered paper. This cake will keep for weeks. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and remove the skins; 
when they are perfectly dry pound then to a smooth paste in a mor- 
tar, adding now and then a few drops of water to prevent the nuts 
from getting oily; add three-fourths of a pound of powdered sugar 
and the whites of three .eggs, beaten stiff. Beat all together until a 
smooth paste; line a baking dish with buttered paper and drop bits 



» 



246 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

of the mixture on the paper; they should be two inches apart; put 
three or four bits of almonds, at irregular distances on the top of 
each. Bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. If preferred, the al- 
mond paste can be bought at the confectioner's and the other ingredi- 
ents added to it. 

MERINGUES. 

Take one-half pound of fine sugar, sifted, and the whites of four 
eggs, beaten stiff ; stir these quickly together ; cover the bottom of your 
baking-tin with buttered paper; put the mixture on the paper, in 
small tablespoonfuls, about two inches apart; give the meringues the 
form of an egg and take care that they are of uniform size; dust with 
fine, granulated sugar, sifted, and bake in a moderate oven until they 
are nicely colored ; remove from the oven ; make a small lengthwise 
opening in the top of the meringue and remove the soft part. When 
required for the table fill them with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored ; put on the ice to set the cream. Very much depends upon 
the baking of meringues; they should be in the oven from half to 
three-fourths of an hour, and still be only slightly colored; if baked 
quickly they will not dry enough. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Sift together three cupfuls of pastry flour and three level tea- 
spoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder. Cream one scant cupful of 
butter with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, adding the sugar grad- 
ually; and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Add to this one-half cupful of milk alternately with the 
flour and last of all one cupful of cleaned and floured currants. Bake 
in a moderate oven about fifty minutes. 

COCOANUT AND CITRON LAYER CAKE. 

Rub together three-quarters of a cupful of butter and a cupful 
and a half of powdered sugar. When this mixture is like a soft 
cream, add six eggs, beaten light, a cupful of water and three cupfuls 
of flour sifted twice with a heaping teaspoonful of Sea Foam baking- 
powder. If the batter should be too thin, add cautiously a little more 
flour. Pour into three greased layer-cake tins, and bake to a delicate 
brown. 

Whip a pint of cream stiff with a generous half-cupful of pow- 
dered sugar. Have ready a fresh cocoanut, grated. Beat this into 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 247 



the whipped cream. When the cake is cold, spread each layer of it 
with this mixture, and sprinkle with minced citron. On the top layer 
heap the cocoanut cream, and dot it here and there with bits of the 
green citron. This cake must be eaten within a few hours after it 
is made. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one of sweet milk, three of flour, 
one-fourth of a cupful of butter, whites of four eggs, well beaten, two 
teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, and half a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Bake in four tins and put together in layers with cream, 
which make as follows : Whip one cupful of sweet cream to a froth, 
and stir gradually into it half a cupful of powdered sugar, a few drops 
of vanilla, and one pound of almonds, blanched and chopped ; spread 
quite thick between the layers of cake. Frost the top and sides. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

The whites of eleven eggs, one teacupful of sifted flour, and one 
and a half teacupfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful each of cream of tartar 
and vanilla. Mix the cream of tartar thoroughly with the flour. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, add the sugar, vanilla and flour, stirring 
lightly but thoroughly. Do not have too much fire; the oven should 
be a slow one, as this cake will rise graduall}^ Bake about forty 
minutes. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Three-fourths of a cupful of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, four eggs (the whites of two are kept for the chocolate fill- 
ing) , two tablespoon fuls of water, one coffeecupful of flour, and two 
teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, which sift well into the 
flour. Mix the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, then the flour 
and water, and lastly the beaten whites of two eggs. The following 
is for the filling ^'Boil one and a half cupfuls of sugar with three table- 
f^poonfuls of cream and half a cake of chocolate, grated until it will 
strand when poured from a spoon; then pour this over the beaten 
M'hites of two eggs; add a teaspoonful of vanilla; beat until it 
thickens ; put between the layers, over the top and over the sides. This 
makes nice cocoanut cake, by substituting cocoanut for chocolate. 



•248 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Eight eggs, half a pound of butter, three- fourths of a pound of 
flour, one pint of warm water. Stir the butter into the water, set it 
on the fire in a saucepan, and slowly bring to a boil, stirring it often. 
When it boils, put in the flour, boil one minute, stirring all the while ; 
take from the fire, turn into a deep dish, and let it cool. Beat the 
eggs very light, and whip into this cooled paste, first the yolks, then 
the whites. Drop, in great spoonfuls, upon buttered paper, taking 
care not to let them touch or run into each other, and bake ten min- 
utes. 

CREAM FOR FILLING. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, two eggs, 
two cups of sugar. Wet the corn starch with enough milk to work 
it into a smooth paste. Boil the rest of the milk. Beat the eggs, add 
the sugar and corn starch to these, and as soon as the milk boils pour 
in the mixture gradually, stirring all the time until smooth and thick. 
Drop in a teaspoonful of butter, and when this is mixed in, set the 
custard aside to cool. Then add extract of vanilla or lemon; pass a 
sharp knife lightly around the puffs, split them, and fill with the 
mixture. 

GRANDMOTHER'S APPLE CAKE. 

Three cups of dried apples stewed slowly in two cups of molasses, 
then set aside to cool. Three cups of flour, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of raisins, currants and 
grated lemon-peel, mixed ; eight teaspoonfuls of water, one level tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in the water, three eggs, spices to taste. 

This cake will keep for weeks. It is better when a few days old 
than when first made. 

The apples should be carefully washed, first in warm, then in 
cold water, lying in this last for half an hour. Drain and toss in a 
towel before adding the molasses. 

CORNUCOPIAS. 

Break one egg in a bowl, then add an equal quantity of flour, also 
an equal quantity of powdered sugar. Stir until perfectly smooth. 
Grease tin baking sheets and spread the mixture, a spoonful at a 
time, and very thin. Be careful it does not run together. Bake a light 
brown in a quick oven. Remove the cakes from the pans and bend 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 249 

into the shape of a cornucopia. Keep them warm while shaping or 
the cake will harden. Fill with sweetened and flavored whipped 
cream; chopped nuts may be added to the cream if preferred. 

COCOANUT CREAM PUFFS. 

These cakes, while requiring care in their preparation, amply 
repay one for the time spent in their making. 

Into a cupful of hot water stir a half-cupful of butter and bring 
to a boil. Then add a cupful and a half of flour, and cook (stirring 
constantly) for two minutes; take from the fire and pour into a bowl 
to cool. When the mixture is cold beat into it the whipped yolks of 
four eggs; lastly, the stiffened whites. Line a baking-pan with but- 
tered paper; drop the batter by the large spoonful upon it, and bake 
in a quick oven. The puffs should be done in fifteen minutes. When 
they are cold cut off the tops, fill with the following mixture and 
replace the tops. 

FILLING. 

Into two cupfuls of thick whipped cream beat a cupful of grated 
cocoanut, half a cupful of powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of bitter almonds. Whip up hard before putting into the puff 
shells. 

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour; five 
eggs, beat whites and yolks separately ; one small cup of ice water, two 
spoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder sifted in the flour, vanilla 
flavoring. Cream butter and sugar together until very light; add 
yolks of eggs, then whites, then flour, and finally the ice water. Bake 
in biscuit pans. When cold cut in squares. Have chocolate frosting 
ready in a bowl. Dip each square into the frosting and put on a 
platter to dry. For cocoanut cakes, have white frosting in a bowl and 
a dish of grated fresh cocoanut. Dip the squares into the frosting and 
then roll them in the grated cocoanut. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

Into two cups of grated cocoanut stir a cupful and a half of 
powdered sugar and a gill of cream, or just enough to wet the cocoa- 
nut. Add the beaten whites of two eggs, and mix all thoroughly. 
Line a baking-pan with buttered paper, drop the cocoanut mixture 



250 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

by the teaspoonful upon this and bake quickly in a hot oven. Sift 
powdered sugar over the macaroons while they are still warm. 

SPICED COFFEE CAKE. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, three 
eggs well beaten, one cupful of strong made coffee, three and one-half 
cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
ginger, one grated nutmeg, three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking- 
powder. Fruit may be added if desired. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Pour half a cup of boiling water over half a cup of cream; dis- 
solve one cake of compressed yeast in one-fourth a cup of boiled and 
cooled water and add to the cream and water cooled to a lukewarm 
temperature; beat in two cups of sifted flour, cover and let stand 
to become light, then add one-third a cup of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one cup of sugar, two eggs and flour to make a 
dough that can be kneaded. 

Knead until the dough is elastic, then cover and set aside to be- 
come light. Started at 3 o'clock the dough may be shaped about 6. 
To shape, pat out into a sheet an inch and a half thick and cut to fit 
baking-pans. Let stand, to double nearly in bulk, then transfer to 
the ice in the refrigerator. In the morning, brush the top of the 
dough with melted butter and dredge thickly with sugar and cinna- 
mon. Bake about twenty-five minutes. 

JUMBLES. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, four of 
flour, three eggs and three teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder. 
Mix thoroughly, and drop on buttered tins, with a large spoon; 
sprinkle with sugar before baking. 

MARSH MALLOW LAYER CAKE. 

Cream a cupful of butter with two cupfuls of sugar, and when 
smooth and light, add the well-beaten j^olks of six eggs, a cupful of 
milk and two cupfuls of prepared flour, alternately with the stifiFened 
whites of the six eggs. If the batter is too thin, add a little more flour. 
Flavor with vanilla and bake in layer tins. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 251 



FILLING FOR MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

Dissolve five tablespoonfuls of gum arabic in a gill of cold water ; 
then stir in a half-cupful of powdered sugar and boil all together 
until a little dropped in cold water can be rolled into a soft ball be- 
tween the finger and thumb. Have ready-beaten the white of an egg 
and strain the syrup into this, beating the stiffened egg constantly 
as you do so. Flavor with vanilla and spread upon the cake layers 
with a knife dipped in boiling water. 

CURRANT BUN. 

Warm a cupful of cream in a double boiler, take it from the fire 
and stir into it a cupful of melted butter, which has not been allowed 
to cook in melting. Beat three eggs very light, add them to the cream 
and butter, then stir in a cupful of sugar. Dissolve a half-cake of 
yeast in a couple of tablespoonfuls of water, sift a good quart of flour, 
make a hollow in it, stir into it the yeast and then, after adding to the 
other mixture, a teaspoonful, each, of powdered mace and cinnamon, 
put in the flour and the yeast. Beat all well for a few minutes, add 
a cupful of currants that have been washed, dried and dredged with 
flour, pour into a shallow baking-pan, let it rise for several hours, 
until it has doubled in size; bake one hour in a rather quick oven; 
sprinkle with fine sugar when done. 

SPONGE COOKIES. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs light with one cupful of sugar. When 
smooth, add the whites beaten to a standing froth, the juice of half 
a lemon, and, with quick, light strokes, a cupful of flour sifted twice 
with one teaspoonful of Sea Foam baking-powder and a little salt. 
Now work in more flour until you have a "rollable" dough. Cut into 
shapes, and bake quickly in a floured shallow pan. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

Cream two cupfuls of granulated sugar and one cupful of butter. 
Add three beaten eggs and flavor with lemon juice. Sift into the mix- 
ture enough flour to make the dough stiff enough to handle, roll thin, 
cut out and bake. 



252 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



COOKIES. 

One teacupful of white sugar, half a teacupful of butter, one 
egg, and two tablespoonfuls of sour milk. Dissolve soda in hot water, 
and add enough to the sour milk to make it foam. Grate in a little 
nutmeg. Roll thin, and before cutting out sprinkle with a little 
coarse sugar, and pass the rolling pin over softly, to prevent the sugar 
from scattering when the cookies are handled. Cut out and bake. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One and a half cupfuls of New Orleans molasses, one cupful of 
brown sugar, one and two-thirds of a cupful of hot water, two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda dissolved in hot water, and a little salt; season to 
taste with a little each of nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves and ginger. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cupful of molasses, one of sugar, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
six of butter, four of water, two of cinnamon, one of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and flour to mix hard. Roll thin and bake in a hot 
oven. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 

Beat one tablespoon of butter to a cream; add two tablespoons 
of sugar, two of milk and one beaten egg. When well mixed stir in 
half a cup of flour sifted with half a teaspoon each of salt and Sea 
Foam baking-powder. Add half a cup of finely-chopped peanuts, 
then drop by dessertspoons on an unbuttered tin, press into the top of 
each half a peanut and bake in a steady oven. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Half a cupful of sugar, one cupful each of butter, molasses and 
boiling water; two teaspoonfuls of soda, one egg, spice or ginger to 
taste, three teacupfuls of sifted flour. Pour the boiling water on the 
soda. Mix thoroughly and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

GINGERBREAD, "SUCH AS MOTHER USED TO MAKE." 

Mix together a half-cupful each of brown sugar and New Orleans 
molasses, and stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter, a teaspoonful of 
ground ginger and a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Set the bowl contain- 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 253 

ing these ingredients at the side of the range until the contents are 
hlood-warm ; then remove from the range and beat with an egg-beater 
until the batter is light brown in color. Now stir in a cupful of sour 
milk and three cupfuls of sifted flour. Beat very hard, adding, last 
of all, a teaspoonful of baking-soda dissolved in hot water. Beat for 
two minutes longer and bake in deep muffin-tins, or in a shallow 
baking-pan. 

SQUASH BREAD. 

One pint sifted squash, one-half cup lard, one-half cup molasses, 
two-thirds teaspoon soda, salt to taste; flour enough to knead it stiff, 
rise twenty-four hours; bake in cakes or pans as you would ginger- 
bread. 

MOTHER'S DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream a generous half-cupful of butter with two cupfuls of sugar ; 
add three well-beaten eggs, a cupful and a half of milk, and about 
five cupfuls of flour, which has been sifted with three teaspoonfuls of 
Sea Foam baking-powder. Add this flour gradually until you have 
enough to make a dough that can be rolled out, as it may not take the 
full amount. Roll out, cut into rounds, drop into boiling cottolene 
or other fat and fry to a golden brown. Drain in a colander, and 
while hot sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

CRULLERS. 

Rub together four tablespoonfuls of butter and a generous cupful 
of powdered sugar ; add to the cream thus made half a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon and beat it in thoroughly. Now add four well- 
beaten eggs, and whip long and hard. Last of all, sift in very gradu- 
ally enough flour to make a stiff dough. Roll this out and, with a 
fancy cake-cutter, cut it into small ornamental shapes. The bits of 
dough left over may be gathered up, put together and rolled out 
again, then cut into strips and small squares. After the crullers are 
cooked and drained free of fat, spread them upon a platter and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and cinnamon in the proportion of a 
teaspoonful of the spice to half a cupful of sugar. 

GEM FRIED CAKES. 

One cupful of sweet milk, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, two 
eggs, three small tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three teaspoonfuls 



ELECTRIC 
COOKING 




ELECTRIC 
HEATING 



^ In electric cookings it is of first importance that the character 
of heaters be considered. 

QThe Simplex Heaters are sealed in an insulating^ coat of enamel 
burned on to iron. It is the only method by which the heating 
element is so arranged as to insure uniformity of temperature^ an 
absolute essential in good cooking. 



Reliable 




Practical 



^ Simplex Electric Flatirons have stood the test of years of service 
(first made in 1893), andfrom a scientific or mechanical standpoint 
are correct. 

^They heat very quickly, and have the proper balance which 
insures ease of operation and a uniform heat over the entire bottom. 
The finish and all details are Simplex Standards. 

Descriptive Catalog " N " sent free for the asking 

Simplex Electric Heating Co. 



CHICAGO OFFICE 
MONADNOCK BLK. 




CAMBRIDGE 

MASS. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 255 



of Sea Foam baking-powder. Flour sufficient to roll out conveniently. 
Roll out the same thickness as for cookies, and cut out the same. Two 
circles of the dough are required for a cake; put a teaspoonful of jam 
or jelly in the centre of one, and lay the other over it, pressing the 
edges together; then fry in hot lard or clarified drippings (beef), and 
be sure that they are cooked through. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

Beat together one egg and a half cupful of sugar. Add one table- 
spoonful of butter, melted, one cupful of milk, two cupfuls and a half 
of sifted flour, one-third of a teaspoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder. Stir in one pint of picked berries, pour into two 
shallow greased pans and bake in a hot oven about thirty-five minutes. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Into one quart of sifted flour rub thoroughly three teaspoonfuls of 
Sea Foam baking-powder, half a teaspoonful of salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add sweet milk to make rather a stiff batter (or 
make and roll like biscuit dough, which will require a little more 
butter). Bake in two buttered pie-tins (if only one cake is desired 
use half the quantity of each ingredient mentioned in the recipe). 
When done, slit with a sharp knife, butter both halves; cover the 
lower half with a generous layer of perfectly ripe, fresh strawberries, 
Vv'hich should be plentifully sweetened and allowed to stand at least 
ten minutes before using. I consider it a decided improvement to 
crush the berries enough to allow the juices to escape, that they may 
mingle with the sugar; place the other half of the short-cake on top 
of this, in an inverted position, crust down — cover with berries, add- 
ing a generous sprinkling of sugar at the last. Send around a pitcher 
of sweetened cream with the short-cake. 

HUCKLEBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Sift two heaping teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder and 
one of salt into a quart and a pint of flour. Chop into this two table- 
spoonfuls of cottolene or other fat and two of butter. Beat two eggs 
light and add them to a pint of sweet milk. Make a hole in the flour, 
pour in the milk and egg, and mix with a wooden spoon. Turn out 
upon a pastry b(Jard and roll into two sheets, about a third of an inch 
in thickness. Line a greased biscuit-pan with one sheet, cover it 



256 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



three-quarters of an inch thick with huckleberries, strew these with 
granulated sugar, fit the upper sheet of dough on the pan and bake 
ill a steady oven until done. Cut into squares and send to table. Split, 
and eat with butter and sugar. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of butter, four eggs, one- 
half cupful of milk, one cupful of potatoes, one teaspoonful, each, of 
cinnamon and cloves, one-half cup of chocolate, two cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of Sea Foam baking-powder, one cup of almonds. 
Blanch and chop almonds; grate cold boiled potatoes; beat eggs 
separately, adding whites last. Bake in a shallow pan in a moderate 
oven, and cover with caramel frosting. 

JELLY PANCAKES. 

Make a batter of five beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, three cupfuls of milk, and about a quart of prepared flour. 
Mix well and fry in a large frying-pan in which a little butter has 
been melted. The batter should cover the entire bottom of the pan. 
When brown on one side, turn. When done, spread with fruit jelly, 
and roll up as you would a sheet of music. Sprinkle wath powdered 
sugar, and send at once to the table. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 257 



FROSTING AND FILLING FOR CAKE. 

WHITE FROSTING. 

Take five tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar and the white 
of one egg; whip the white of the egg until stiff; then add the sugar 
gradually; beat very hard. Flavor to suit the taste (or cake pre- 
pared) and spread smoothly over the cake with a broad-bladed knife, 
which dip frequently in cold water. A little strawberry, currant or 
cranberry juice will color the icing a delicate pink; yellow may be 
obtained by grating the rind of an orange or lemon, mixing it with 
two tablespoonfuls of the juice, straining through a cloth and adding 
to the icing. 

FRENCH ICING. 

Put three cupfuls of powdered sugar and one cupful of water on 
the stove in a saucepan ; let boil ten minutes without stirring, taking 
care that it does not burn ; have ready a bowl of ice water, into which 
drop a little of the syrup; if it sinks immediately, remove it, and if 
you can work it into a soft ball not at all brittle, the syrup has boiled 
enough ; take it from the fire, let it stand until partially cooled, then 
beat it hard for fifteen minutes or until it is very white ; pour it over 
the cake while still warm (the icing), and spread and smooth it with 
a knife, which hold in hot water until heated. If the icing becomes 
too stiff, set the bowl containing it in hot water and melt it as often 
as is necessary. If the syrup, Avhen tested, shows any sign of brittle- 
ness, add a little more water and boil again. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Put into a porcelain-lined saucepan a cupful of granulated sugar 
and a third of a cupful of hot water and boil without stirring until it 
threads, then pour slowly upon the beaten white of an egg to which 
has been added a pinch of cream of tartar. Beat steadily, adding, 
as you do so, two heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, a half teaspoonful of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 

SOFT WHITE FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Make a syrup of a cupful of granulated sugar and a third of a 
cupful of water and simmer over the fire until it threads. Beat the 



tSS The New Lucile Cook Book. 



whites of two eggs stiff, add a generous pinch of cream of tartar, 
and beat steadily while you pour in the hot syrup. Do not cease beat- 
ing until it is like a thick white paste; then flavor with vanilla or 
lemon and spread at once on the layer cakes. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

Put together over the fire three-quarters of a cupful of cream, 
half a cupful of sugar and a tablespoonful of butter. Cook until it 
spins a thread, add to it four tablespoonfuls of burnt sugar, or cara- 
mel, and a teaspoonful of vanilla. When it is cool, use for the filling 
and frosting of cake. 

. ALMOND FILLING. 

Beat three cupfuls of powdered sugar into the whites of three 
eggs. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds. Pound in a mortar until 
they make an even paste, with a little sugar. Then add to the whites 
of the eggs, and flavor with a little vanilla. Stir thoroughly. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 259 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 

"Simple diet is the best, 
For many dishes bring many Diseases." 

In heating milks for custards the saucepan should stand in another 
saucepan or kettle containing hot water ; if one has a set of the patent 
boilers, so much the better. The milk should come to the boiling 
point and be kept there long enough to set the custard. 

The rule for both boiled and baked custards is five eggs to a quart 
of milk, and a tablespoonful of sugar for each egg; cream and cus- 
tards that are to be frozen require more sugar than those that are not 
frozen. When mixing eggs and hot milk, stir a small quantity in 
slowly, at first, so that the eggs may not curdle. 

A very moderate degree of heat must be employed for all sauces, 
creams and custards made of the yolks of eggs. Do not set the vessel 
containing the custard into the water until the latter is at the boiling 
point, and remove the instant the custard is nicely set. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

For one large mold of cream use half a package of gelatine, one 
gill of milk, two quarts of whipped cream, one gill of sugar and two 
and a half ounces of chocolate. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water for two hours. Whip and drain 
the cream, scrape the chocolate, and put the milk on to boil. Put the 
chocolate, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one of hot water in a 
small saucepan, and stir on a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Stir 
this into the hot milk. Now add the soaked gelatine and the re- 
mainder of the sugar. Strain this mixture into a basin that will hold 
two quarts or more. Place the basin in a pan of ice water, and stir 
until cold, when it will begin to thicken. Instantly begin to stir in 
the whipped cream, adding half the amount at first. When all the 
cream has been added, dip the mold in cold water and turn the cream 
into it. Place in the ice chest for an hour or more. 

At serving-time dip the mold in tepid water. See that the cream 
will come from the sides of the mold, and turn out on a flat dish. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Put the fruit, whether canned or fresh, through the fruit press, as 
this separates the juice and seeds without straining. In using canned 



26o The New Lucile Cook Book. 



or preserved fruits, be careful as to the proportion of sugar, for if the 
fruit be rich enough no additional sweetness will be required. 

Two cupfuls of fruit juice, half cupful of cold water, half box of 
gelatine, one pint of cream, one tablespoonful of sherry or one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice mixed with one tablespoonful of orange juice, 
sweeten to taste. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak for a half hour ; 
dissolve over hot -water. Add the gelatine, sugar and flavoring to the 
fruit juice, and stir until it begins to thicken. Add the cream, whipped 
to a stiff froth, and mix thoroughly, but without beating. Turn into 
a mold previously wet with cold water, and put away to harden before 
servng. 

If the fruit juice be added to the cream before it has begun to 
thicken it is almost impossible to keep it from settling. Strawberries, 
raspberries, pineapples, peaches, apricots and oranges are the fruits 
generally used. 

BOILED CUP CUSTARDS. 

Heat a quart of milk in a double boiler, but do not bring it quite 
to the boil. Beat five eggs light and stir into them half a cupful of 
sugar. On this mixture pour the scalding milk very gradually, beat- 
ing steadily all the time. Return to the double boiler and cook, 
stirring constantly, until the custard is thick enough to coat the spoon. 
If boiled longer than this it will curdle and separate. Remove the 
custard from the fire, season with two teaspoonfuls of vanilla and set 
aside to cool. When cold, nearly fill glasses or cups with the mixture 
and heap with a meringue made by whipping the whites of two eggs 
stifiF with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, half a teacupful of sugar, and flavor- 
ing to taste. Put the milk in a pail or can and set it in another of 
boih'ng water; stir the sugar into the milk and when at boiling point 
add slowly the well-beaten eggs and flavor it; when well set, pour Into 
a dish to cool, and from which it will be served. When eggs are not 
plentiful two may be omitted, and a tablespoonful of corn starch used. 
A tiny pinch of salt is considered an improvement, by some, to a boiled 
custard. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 261 



BAKED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, half a teacupful of sugar, and flavor- 
ing to suit the taste. Stir the sugar and yolks together, adding the 
flavoring, the milk, and lastly the well-beaten whites. Pour into a 
warm baking-pan (or small molds for the purpose) and place in a 
moderately hot oven. When the custard is well set and of a delicate 
brown on top, remove from the oven. If a very sweet custard is pre- 
ferred, add sugar to suit the taste. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 

For the juice of five oranges, allow three-fourths cup sugar, the 
5'olks of five eggs and a cup of cream; put juice and sugar on to cook 
in double boiler; when the syrup reaches the boiling point skim care- 
fully, then set aside to cool; beat the cream to a froth; now return 
the orange syrup and beaten yolks to the fire and heat slowly, stirring 
until thick; add the whipped cream and pour into cups. Serve very 
cold. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Soak half an ounce of gelatine in cold water sufficient to cover it, 
for half an hour; then place it over boiling water, add one tablespoon- 
ful of coitee extract (or half a teacupful of strong coffee), and half 
a teacupful of sugar; when the gelatine is dissolved, take from the 
lire; stir in one and a half cupfuls of sweet cream, whipped, strain 
into a mold wet with cold water, and place in the refrigerator or a 
cold place until ready to serve. 

GINGER CREAM. 

Half ounce of gelatine, half pint of cream, half pint of custard, 
two ounces sugar, four ounces preserved ginger, three-fourths gill of 
cold milk. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then 
dissolve over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard, the sugar 
and the ginger cut into slices. Stir in a tablespoonful of the ginger 
syrup, then add the dissolved gelatine. Stir occasionally until begin- 
ning to set and pour into a mold rinsed with cold water. When firm, 
turn out and serve. 



262 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

FRUITED WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whip a pint of cream stiff, sweeten abundantly and stir into it 
lightly a cup of whole strawberries, a banana peeled, and cut into 
dice, an orange, treated in the same way, and a cup of finely-minced 
pineapple. Serve very cold. As the fruits are acid, the cream should 
be very sweet. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Put one pint of rich cream on the ice far an hour, or until thor- 
oughly chilled ; then whip, skimming off the stiff froth as it rises, and 
laying on a sieve to drain, and returning the cream which drips away 
to be whipped over again. Add to the whipped cream one cupful of 
sugar, and any flavoring preferred. Set on the ice half an hour before 
serving. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Scrape fine half a pound of chocolate and add milk enough to dis- 
solve it; cook for ten minutes; remove from the stove and allow to 
cool; then add a pint of cream, and sugar to taste. Beat the yolks of 
eight egg§, and the white of one; add to the chocolate cream; strain, 
and pour into little china cream pots or cups and set them into a 
shallow dish or pan of hot water until the mixture sets; then put in 
a cool place until required to serve. This quantity will fill twelve 
or more cups. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint of sweet cream, one gill of milk, one-third of a box of 
gelatine, whites of two eggs, and half a teacupful of sugar. Have 
uniform-sized pieces of cake or lady fingers and line the mold or dish 
intended for use. Whip the cream ; then add the sugar and the stifily 
beaten whites of eggs, stirring lightly. The gelatine should be soaked 
in half of the milk, heated ; then add the remainder of milk and when 
just warm add to the cream. Stir the custard lightly while pouring 
it over the cake. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Remove the stems of a quart of ripe, fresh strawberries; crush 
them slightly and cover them with a teacupful of powdered sugar. 
Let them stand three or four hours; then rub through a fine sieve. 
Stir together a pint of milk and a pint of cream, or use all cream. 
Sweeten slightly and warm. Stir in a strawberry pulp; then whisk 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 263 



the mixture, fill small china or glass cups, and serve them on a napkin 
if the cups do not fit into the dish. Raspberries or other fruit may be 
treated the same way. When the fruit is not quite ripe, it should be 
stewed before mixing with the cream. 

ORANGE CREAM. 
Soak half an ounce of cream in cold water sufficient to cover it, 
for half an hour, then place it over boiling water; when the gelatine 
is dissolved, take from the fire; stir in half a teacupful of orange 
juice and grated rind of one orange (the grated rind should soak in 
the juice while the gelatine is dissolving) ; the beaten yolks of two 
eggs and three-fourths of a cupful of sugar ; then add one and a half 
cupfuls of sweet cream, whipped; strain into a mold wet with cold 
water, and place in the refrigerator or a cold place until ready to 
serve. 

GELATINE AND CORN STARCH CREAM. 

Half an ounce of gelatine, half an ounce of corn starch, one egg, 
a few drops of vanilla extract, one and one-half pints of milk, one- 
fourth pint of cream, two ounces of loaf sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen 
minutes. Mix the corn starch smoothly with a little of the cold milk 
and place with the remaining milk in a stew-pan, and boil for eight 
minutes. Then add the whisked egg, sugar and soaked gelatine and 
stir until it thickens. Strain into a basin, add the cream, well beaten, 
and vanilla, and stir occasionally until cool. Pour into a mold pre- 
viously rinsed in cold water. Set aside until firm, turn out and 
serve. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Half an ounce of gelatine, three bananas, three-fourths pint of 
milk, three ounces of loaf sugar, half pint of whipped cream, juice of 
one lemon. 

Skin the bananas and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the 
pelatine to soak in a little milk for about fifteen minutes, and dissolve 
gently over the fire with the remaining milk, sugar, banana pulp and 
lemon juice. Allow to cool a little, and stir in the whipped cream. 
As soon as it begins to set, pour the mixture into a mold previously 
rinsed in cold water. Unmold in the usual manner, as described in 
the foregoing recipes, and serve. A dessertspoonful of brandy im- 
proves this recipe. 



264 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



PLUM BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a pint of cold water. Press 
through a sieve one pint of canned or freshly stewed and sweetened 
plums. Stir the gelatine over boiling water until dissolved ; stir the 
plums into this and mix well ; pour into a bowl set in ice, and stir 
constantly until it begins to thicken; then add one pint of whipped 
cream ; stir lightly until well mixed. Turn into a mold and stand in 
a cool place to harden. Serve with whipped .cream. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

Soak a half-box of gelatine in a scant cupful of cold water for an 
hour. Peel a small pineapple, and grate it; then cover with a cup 
of sugar, and let it stand for an hour before stirring the soaked gela- 
tine into it. Turn all into a saucepan set within a pan of boiling 
water, and stir until the gelatine and sugar are dissolved. Remove 
from the fire and let it cool, but not stiffen. Whip a pint of cream 
very stiff. Stand the saucepan containing the gelatine and pineapple 
in a deep bowl of cracked ice and, as the mixture stiffens, beat into it, 
by the spoonful, the whipped cream. Beat steadily until all the cream 
is in, and the jelly is stiff and white. Turn into a glass bowl, and set 
in the ice for some hours. Serve w^ith rich cream. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Take a teacupful of white wine, the juice of a lemon, half an 
ounce of gelatine, and sugar to taste. Let them simmer together until 
the gelatine is dissolved ; strain the mixture ; add one pint of cream, 
and stir the whole until quite cold. Pour into a mold and let it stand 
until set. 

PEACH CREAM. 

Half an ounce of gelatine, half pint of peach puree, half pint of 
cream, four ounces of sugar, half the juice of a lemon, three-fourths 
gill of cold milk. 

Put the gelatine to soak in the milk wath the sugar, then dissolve 
it gently over the fire. Whip thf cream ; rub sufficient peaches through 
a hair sieve to obtain half a pint of pulp ; add this to the cream and 
lemon juice. Then strain in the dissolved gelatine. Stir occasionally 
until cold and set in a mold. When firm, turn out and serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 265 



RASPBERRY AND CURRANT CREAM. 

Mash one quart of black raspberries and one pint of red currants 
with two and a half cupfuls of sugar. Let them stand several hours, 
strain off the juice and turn into the freezer. When partly frozen, 
add one cupful of sweet cream, sweetened, flavored and whipped. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Put a pint of milk on the stove in your double boiler, or set the 
saucepan containing the milk in a kettle of boiling water. Beat the 
whites of four eggs as stiff as possible, adding a little powdered sugar 
and any flavoring preferred ; take up the beaten whites by spoonfuls 
(making them as smooth as possible) and put them into the boiling 
milk ; let them stand a moment and then turn them over ; two minutes 
will cook them sufficiently; remove with a perforated skimmer and 
lay them on a plate to drain. Beat the yolks of the eggs with four 
tablespoon fuls of sugar; add them to the hot milk; stir until a smooth 
custard, but do not allow to whey; remove from the fire; add flavor- 
ing and pour into the dish from which it is to be served. Lay the 
poached whites on the top of the custard and set in a cool place or on 
ice. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Half ounce of gelatine, half pint of custard, two ounces of sugar, 
half pint of cream, one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, three-fourths 
gill of cold milk. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, dissolve 
gently over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard and sugar, and 
strain in the dissolved gelatine, flavor with vanilla extract. Stir occa- 
sionally until beginning to set, then pour into a jelly mold. Allow 
to set until firm in a cool place or on ice. Turn out on a dish and 
serve. This mold would be improved if masked with a thin layer 
of jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica. 

BURNT ALMOND CHARLOTTE. 

One cupful of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped fine, half a 
box of gelatine soaked two hours in half a cupful of cold water ; when 
the gelatine is sufficiently soaked, put three tablespoon fuls of sugar 
into a saucepan over the fire and stir until it becomes liquid and looks 
dark; then add the chopped almonds to it, and stir two minutes more; 
turn it out on a platter and set aside to get cool. 



266 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



After they become cool enough, break them up in a mortar, put 
them in a cup and a half of milk, and cook again for ten minutes. 
Now beat together the yolks of two eggs with a cupful of sugar, and 
add to the cooking mixture; add also the gelatine; stir until smooth 
and well dissolved ; take from the fire and set in a basin of ice water 
and beat it until it begins to thicken ; then add to that two quarts of 
whipped cream, and turn the whole carefully into molds; set away 
on the ice to become firm. 

Sponge cake can be placed around the mold or not, as desired. 

BANANA CHARLOTTE. 

In a double boiler heat a cupful of cream, to which you have added 
a pinch of soda. Sweeten slightly, and thicken with a heaping tea- 
spoonful of corn starch dissolved in a gill of cold milk. Keep warm 
over hot water — stirring occasionally to prevent lumping — while you 
nearly fill a bowl with alternate layers of sliced bananas and very thin 
slices of sponge cake — the latter moistened slightly with milk. When 
the bowl is three-quarters full pour over the contents the thickened 
cream and set aside to get vry cold. Fill the bowl with sweetened 
whipped cream, heap it high and serve. 

COFFEE OR CHOCOLATE JUNKET. 

Served with a little whipped cream comes in very nicely for hot 
days, and both are easily prepared. 

If coffee is used, make sufficient very strong coffee to flavor the 
milk, sweeten to taste, and add a teaspoonful of rennet for each full 
pint of milk used. 

If chocolate is preferred, take best quality chocolate and dissolve 
it with a little cold water over the fire till you have a thick paste. 

Add boiling milk to this, sweeten, and when lukewarm add rennet 
and put in a cool place. 

FRUIT JUNKET. 

Fruit junket is one of the best-tasting dishes in the menu during 
hot weather : 

Put one quart of new milk on back part of range, and when it 
becomes lukewarm pour into a glass dish ; sweeten, and flavor deli- 
cately with vanilla, stirring slightly. Add one rennet tablet, or three- 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 267 



quarters of a tablespoonful of liquid rennet. Set aside to cool thor- 
oughly, being careful not to jar it. Just before serving fill sherbet 
glasses with alternate spoonfuls of junket and sliced and sweetened 
fruit. Heap whipped cream on top, and put a piece of fruit dusted 
with sugar in the centre. 




M 11 Serve just after dessert the most 
^1 JeligKtful and aristocratic cordial 
~*i in the worla 



(3ran6 
/Ibarnicr 
Xiqueur 



USED BY EVERY COURT IN EUROPE 



Since J 827 made at 
Neauphle- le- Chateau 

F R A N C E 



^Vitk tlie coffee tkere is notKing to equal 
one of tne rare 

Cognac Branbies 

of A. C. MEUKOW & CO. 



(MEUKOW Brandy was tke only 
liquor served at tne luncheon to 
President Roosevelt given by Prince 
Henry of Prussia on board tne 
Imperial YacKt HohenzoUern) 




The New Lucile Cook Book. 269 



DESSERT. 
FROZEN DAINTIES. 

"An't please your Honour Quoth the Peasant 
This same Dessert is very pleasant." 

ICE CREAM. 

When ice cream is to be of rather light texture, an uncooked mix- 
ture should be used. Should a rich cream be desired, which will melt 
slowly, it is best to have the bulk of the cream cooked. Liquids 
always increase somewhat in bulk when frozen; uncooked materials 
swell more than those which have been cooked. A raw mixture in the 
process of freezing will increase its bulk almost one-third ; a cooked 
one swells less. On the other hand, the cooked mixture has more 
body and melts much more slowly. 

Ice for freezing should be broken into lumps not larger than a 
walnut, while the salt crystals should not exceed a pea in size; very 
coarse salt and imperfectly crushed ice are responsible for many fail- 
ures in home freezing. With some makes of freezers the ice must be 
pounded even finer than this. 

Measure the ice and salt. To every three measures of ice add one 
of rock salt and mix thoroughly. Put about three inches at a time in 
the pail around the can, work down, then give the handle a few 
twirls. Continue to pack until the ice is within two inches of the 
top of the freezing can. Carefully lift ofi the top, pour in the mix- 
ture to be frozen ; replace lid and top and begin to turn, slowly at 
first. When resistance shows that the mixture is thickening and freez- 
ing, turn more rapidly until it is too stiff to turn longer. Open the 
can, draw out the dasher. With a long spoon or paddle work the 
cream solidly down in the can. Lay a sheet of paraffine paper over 
the top and replace the lid, filling the dasher hole with a cork. Draw 
off half of the liquid brine, add more ice and salt — the ice in some- 
what larger lumps than before. Dip a piece of burlap or old carpet 
in the brine, cover the freezer and stand in a cold place that the cream 
may ripen. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

Scald one pint of cream in a double boiler. Add a half pint of 
sugar, stir until dissolved. Take from the fii-e, add a pint of chilled 



270 The New Lucile Cook Book. 

cream and set away until cold. Add one tablespoonful of vanilla or 
any desired flavoring and freeze according to directions. 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM. 

Scald one pint of milk in a double boiler. Pour in one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, dissolved to a paste, stir until slightly thickened, cover 
and cook thirty minutes. Add three eggs beaten with a half pint of 
sugar, stir until dissolved and thickened, strain and cool. Add one 
pint of cream and any desired flavoring and freeze. A half pint of 
crushed fruit may be added to either of these recipes according to 
the season. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Early in the morning scald a pint of milk in a double boiler. Add 
to it a scant tablespoonful of flour blended smoothly with a little cold 
milk; stir for a moment; then cover and cook for half an hour. Beat 
together one cupful and a half of sugar and three eggs; add this to 
the cooked milk and stir until thick as custard, then strain and cool. 
Rub one pint of raspberries through a fine sieve, add a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls of sugar and let stand for an 
hour. To the cold custard add one pint of rich cream, put in the 
freezer and give a few turns. When icy cold add the fruit and freeze 
until firm; then repack and stand away for two hours to ripen. 
With this serve angel or sponge cake, or if preferred, small fancy 
cakes. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

Blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts by pouring boil- 
ing water over them, letting them stand in this for ten minutes and 
slipping off the skins. Grind to a powder or pound to a paste, add- 
ing a few drops of cream in the latter case. Have ready a custard 
as for vanilla ice cream, made of six eggs, a quart of milk and a 
pound of sugar, and after this is cooked to a custard, and cold, add 
a quart of rich cream, the pistachio nuts and enough green vegetable 
paste to make it of the desired shade of green. Turn into the freezer 
and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

The yolks of four eggs, one teacupful of sugar, two teacupfuls of 
milk, four squares of a cake of chocolate, melted and a tiny portion 
of hot water poured upon it ; stir until smooth. Heat the milk, but 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 271 



do not allow it to boil; add the beaten yolks and sugar; when cool 
add a pint of cream, whipped, and freeze. When ready to serve, 
take the mold and by a quick movement of the hands immerse it in 
water (hot) for an instant, so the cream will turn out easily. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Break the whites of seven eggs into a chilled bowl, add to them 
two cupfuls of powdered sugar and a pint of rich cream into which 
you have stirred a bit of baking-soda the size of a pea. Put over the 
fire in a double boiler and make ft scalding hot, but remove before 
the boiling point is reached. Now set the inner saucepan in a pan of 
ice, and churn until cold and light. Turn into the freezer and 
grind. Peel and cut into small bits three peaches, an apple, an 
orange, a banana, two dozen cherries (chrystallized, if you cannot 
get the fresh), and cut into small pieces a half cupful of red rasp- 
berries. Mix all these fruits thoroughly together. When the cream 
is frozen, but not very stiff, carefully wipe off the top of the freezer, 
remove the cover, and take out the dasher. Turn the mixed fruits 
into the cream, and with a long-handled spoon stir them in. Press 
all down hard, replace the cover, and pack the freezer down in ice 
and salt for three hours longer. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Use good, rich cream for this ice, and ripe, luscious peaches (six 
for a quart of cream) ; remove the skin and stones; mash as smooth 
as possible, and add to the cream, beating thoroughly when ready 
to freeze. A little more sugar is required when fruit is added to 
the cream. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

Two pints milk, same of cream, six eggs, three teacups of sugar, 
one pint berries or peaches cut up small. Let the milk nearly boil, 
beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and add the milk by de- 
grees. Whip the whites of the eggs to a froth and add to the mix- 
ture; put all in a saucepan, stirring until it is a nice, thick custard. 
When perfectly cold whisk in the cream and freeze. If the custard is 
allowed to freeze itself, stir in the fruit after the second beating. 



272 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



DELAWARE MOUSSE. 

Boil together for five minutes one cupful of sugar and a half 
cupful of water. Pare and cut fine enough mellow peaches to make 
a heaping cupful. Pour over them the hot syrup, add a half cupful 
of blanched and chopped almonds, cover and set away until cold. 
Whip a pint of heavy cream to a solid froth and the whites of three 
eggs until stiff and dry. Mix the two whips with one teaspoonful of 
\anilla, add the peach mixture, pack in small molds with tightly fit- 
ting covers, bind the joints with narrow strips of muslin dipped in 
melted lard and bury in a mixture of equal parts of finely chopped 
ice and ice cream salt. Let stand for from two to four hours ac- 
cording to the size of the molds, that they may be well frozen through. 

FROZEN BERRIES. 

(Strawberries, raspberries or blackberries may be used in season) : 
One quart berries and juice, one pound of sugar, one quart of water, 
juice of two lemons; freeze and serve in molds. 

A CANTALOUPE DISH. 

Take small cantaloupes and cut in half, carefully removing all 
the seeds. Let one of the guests go to the nearest confectioner's for 
a quart of ice cream. Fill the hollowed half of the melons with ice 
cream and lay slices of sweetened peaches on top. If more conven- 
ient the melons may be filled with whipped cream into which small 
pieces of peaches have been stirred. Flavor this cream with bitter 
almond. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can, or twelve large peaches, two coffeecupfuls of sugar, 
one pint of water, and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; 
break the peaches rather fine and stir all the ingredients together; 
freeze the whole into form. 

Frozen fruits of any kind can be made the same way; the fruit 
should be mashed to a smooth pulp, but not thinned too much. In 
freezing, care should be taken to prevent its getting lumpy. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Put six ounces of Mocha coffee berries into the oven until nicely 
browned (until the surface has an oily appearance). Put a quart of 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 273 

milk on the stove, in which put the browned coffee; when scalding 
hot, remove from the stove and set away to cool; leaving the coffee 
in the milk until cold; strain, and return to the fire in a custard 
boiler; add the yolks of three eggs and sugar to taste; stir until a 
smooth custard, but do not allow to curdle, remove from the fire, 
add the beaten whites of the eggs, and when cold, a pint of thick, 
sweet cream that has been sweetened and whipped. Freeze and mold. 

BURNT ALMOND ICE CREAM. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs light, add to them a cupful of sugar 
and a pint of hot milk. Put over the fire in a double boiler, cook 
until the mixture thickens like a custard, take from the fire, whip 
in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and w^hen the mixture is cold 
stir in lightly half a pint of sweet cream, whipped stiff, a cupful of 
almonds, which have been shelled, blanched, chopped fine, browned 
in two teaspoonfuls of caramel sugar, and pounded to a course pow- 
der. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla and half a teaspoonful 
of almond extract. Freeze as you would other ice cream. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Remove the peel from eight ripe bananas; mash them into a 
pulp ; then beat them thoroughly with one quart of cream. Sweeten 
and freeze the same as ordinary cream. The bananas may be grated 
or chopped fine. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk, four eggs, and sugar to taste ; 
add a pint of whipped cream ; mash a pint of strawberries and strain 
the juice; add to the cream with more sugar, if needed, when ready 
to freeze. A few whole berries added just before freezing make a 
pretty effect. 

STRAWBERRY SURPRISE. 

Mash two quarts of strawberries to a pulp, add to them a pint 
of sugar, a pint of water, the juice of two lemons and the unbeaten 
whites of six eggs. Turn into the freezer and freeze. The turn- 
ing of the dasher will beat all to a foamy and delicious "surprise." 



^74 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



WHIPPED CREAM FROZEN. 

Set the cream on the ice until very cold ; then flavor and sweeten. 
using a third more sugar than if it were not to be frozen. Whip, 
and freeze the foam. 

FRUIT MERINGUE GLACE. 

This is one of the simplest and most delicious of desserts and 
may be made of any kind of fruit that is at hand. It is especially 
good when made of strawberries, red raspberries, or ripe peaches. 

Crush a quart of fruit to a pulp and cover it with a pint of granu- 
lated sugar. Pour on this a half pint of cold water and the un- 
beaten whites of five eggs. Mix and turn into the freezer. The 
grinding process will whip the contents into frozen foam, light yet 
firm. 

FROZEN MACEDONIA. 

One cupful of canned or preserved pears, one cupful of canned or 
preserved plums, one cupful of canned or preserved cherries, one 
cupful of canned or preserved pineapple. 

Drain the juice from the cherries; put the other fruits through 
the fruit press, and add the cherry juice. Sweeten to taste. If all 
preserved fruits are used no more sugar will be needed, but add one- 
fourth of a cup of cold water with two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. 
The addition of the water and lemon juice are needed to balance 
the extreme sweetness of the preserved fruits, so sugar, water and 
lemon juice must be added to taste in accordance with the fruits 
used. 

Freeze the juice or pulp, and when nearly frozen beat in the 
cherries. Pack and let stand at least an hour, longer would be better, 
before serving. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.— FROZEN. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, half a cup of sugar and a level salt- 
spoon of cinnamon together until very light; add slowly a cup of 
milk heated to boiling, beating well; then pour gradually over an 
ounce and a half of unsweetened chocolate melted by standing over 
hot water. Place this mixture in a double boiler, and stir constantly 
until it thickens and coats the spoon. When cold, add a cup of rich 
cream, vanilla to flavor, arid freeze. Prepare and have ready a cup 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 275 



of candied fruits, figs and seeded raisins. Cut the candied fruit and 
fig in thin slices, the raisins in halves. Make a syrup of a quarter of 
a cup each of sugar and water, add the fruit, boil until it is tender 
and plump, then drain. Add the drained fruit to the frozen mixture 
when it is almost done, and finish freezing. When done, put in a 
quart melon mold, and let stand an hour or more packed in ice and 
salt. Whip a cup of cream, sweeten with two tablespoons of sugar, 
and flavor with either a tablespoon of brandy or of maraschino. Turn 
out the frozen mixture, and surround with the whipped cream. 
This pudding is as beautiful as it is choice. 

SHERBETS. 

SHERBET. 

Squeeze all the juice from six lemons and one large orange. 
Put into this the grated rind of the orange, and of three of the 
lemons, and let it steep for an hour. Strain in a bag, squeezing 
this hard ; add two cupfuls of granulated sugar and one pint of 
M^ater. Mix well and put into a freezer. The length of time it will 
take to freeze depends upon the make of the freezer. Some require 
more time than others. 

LEMON SHERBET, WITH WHITE OF EGG. 

Two quarts of boiling water, eight lemons, one egg (white), 
one quart of sugar. Spread part of the sugar on a shallow plate or 
board, and after wiping the lemons with a clean, damp cloth, roll 
them in the sugar to extract the oil. Then cut in halves, remove the 
seeds, and squeeze out the juice. Boil all the sugar and water until 
clear. Remove the skum as it rises. Add the lemon juice to the 
syrup, and pour it gradually into the beaten egg. Then freeze as 
usual. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

One tablespoonful of gelatine, one scant pint of cold water, one 
cup of sugar, six oranges, or one pint of orange juice, and one-half of 
a cupful of boiling water. Soak the gelatine in half a cupful of cold 
water ten minutes. Put the sugar and the remainder of the cold 
water in a large pitcher. Cut the orange in halves, remove the seeds 
and squeeze all the juice into the pitcher. Add more sugar if the 




nil imr- 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 277 



oranges are very sour. Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water 
and add it to the mixture. Strain into the can and freeze. 

BERRY SHERBET. 

Mash one quart of berries, or enough to make one pint of juice; 
add one pint of sugar, and after the sugar is dissolved, add one pint 
of water and the juice of one lemon. Press through coarse lace, or 
cheesecloth, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Take fourteen ounces of picked strawberries, crush them in a 
mortar, then add to them a quart of water; pour this into a basin, 
with a lemon sliced, and a teaspoonful of orange-flower water ; let it 
remain for two or three hours. 

Put eighteen ounces of sugar into another basin, cover it with 3 
cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Remove the eyes from a large pineapple, then grate or chop very 
fine. Add one pound of sugar and pound well with a wooden beetle. 
Add the juice of two lemons and one orange and one quart of water 
and let stand for two hours. Strain and freeze to a mush. Stir in a 
meringue made by whipping the whites of three eggs and three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar to a glossy, stiff froth. Finish the freez- 
ing, then repack and let stand for two hours to ripen. 

MIXED ICES, OR MACEDOINES. 

One cup currant and one cup raspberry juice; or one cup orange, 
one cup pineapple and one-half cup lemon ; • or one cup grape and one 
cup plum; or one cup strawberry, one cup sherry, and one cup cur- 
rant. 

Use as much water as fruit juice, and sugar to make the mixture 
quite sweet. Freeze as usual. 

CAFE FRAPPE. 

Make some strong clear coffee, using any kind of a drip coffee pot. 
Set aside and when cold add to each quart one quart of cream and 



278 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



make very sweet with a string sugar syrup. Just before serving stir 
in one scant tablespoonful of vanilla and one cupful of cream, whipped 
to a solid froth. Place a large lump of ice in the punch bowl, pour in 
the prepared liquid and serve in glasses. This mixture may also be 
frozen to a mush and served in tall glasses. 

ICED BOULLION. 

Wipe and chop fine five pounds of lean beef (no bone). Add 
five quarts of cold water, let stand in icebox for an hour ; then heat 
slowly, skim and simmer four hours. Add four onions and two car- 
rots cut fine, a bunch of soup greens, four cloves, a blade of mace, a 
dozen peppercorns and two scant teaspoonfuls of salt. Simmer an 
hour longer, strain and cool. When chilled remove all grease and 
pour off the clear liquid; if cloudy it must be clarified. Add more 
salt if needed, slightly deepen the color with caramel. Serve icy 
cold, adding one tablespoonful of sherry to each pint. 

CANTALOUPE ICE. 

Take three pints of spicy cantaloupe pulp, add a pound of sugar 
and the juice of two lemons; put through a potato ricer or sieve, and 
freeze to a granular texture. 

WATER ICES. 

LEMON WATER ICE. 

Required: One pound of loaf sugar, one quart of water, three 
or four lemons, the whites of four eggs. 

Wipe the lemons, then rub some of the lumps of sugar on them 
till they are tinted a deep yellow. Put the water and all the sugar 
into a pan on the fire apd boil until the syrup is thick enough to 
form a thread between the thumb and finger. Then let it get cold, 
and add to it half a pint of lemon juice. Pour this mixture into 
the freezing pot and half freeze it, then add the stiffly-whisked whites 
of the eggs. 

Mix them in thoroughly, then continue to freeze the mixture 
\mtil it is all evenly frozen, scraping all frozen particles frequently 
from the sides of the freezer (if this is not done the ice will not be 
smooth ) . 

Serve in either cases hollowed out of ice or on small glass plates. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



279 



RASPBERRY WATER ICE. 
Pass one and a half pounds of sound, ripe raspberries through a 
fine hair sieve into a basin. Then add one and a half pints of syrup 
made according to the directions given below. Add the juice of two 
lemons and freeze the mixture until it is quite hard. For the syrup 
put three pounds of loaf sugar into a stew-pan with a quart of cold 
water, and stir occasionally until it is melted. Then place the stew- 
pan on the stove and let the syrup gradually reach boiling point, and 
continue to boil for about ten minutes. The scum should be re- 
moved as it rises, and when ready it should be strained and left until 
cold. This syrup, if kept well corked, will remain good for some 
time, and it may be employed to sweeten both cream and water ices. 
But when mixed with fresh fruit it must be added with discretion, 
and some kinds will need more than others. 



CURRANT PUNCH. 

This delightfully refreshing beverage requires three pints of ripe 
currants, one pint red raspberries, juice of two lemons, juice of two 
oranges, three quarts of water and sugar syrup to sweeten to taste. 
Crush the currants and raspberries, add the lemon and orange juice 
and the water. Let stand. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil two pounds of sugar and two quarts of water for five min- 
utes. Strain, add to it the juice of two lemons and one pint of freshlj^ 
grated pineapple. Let stand for three hours, then strain. Add sufK- 
cient shaved ice to make it palatable, one pint of fineh^-chopped pine- 
apple, a cupful of halved strawberries and (if desired) a few whole 
raspberries. 

MUSCAT WATER ICE. 

This ice, though named muscat, does not contain a drop of grape 
juice. Mix together the juice of four lemons, grated rind of one 
and a pint of granulated sugar and let stand one hour ; soak a table- 
spoonful of granulated gelatine in three tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
and when soft dissolve in a pint of boiling water. Add this to the 
lemon and sugar mixture, stir until dissolved, color a very delicate 
green and strain. When cold, add a half cupful of sherry and freeze, 
serving it in punch glasses. 



28o The New Lucile Cook Book. 



SYRUP FOR WATER ICES. 

Put two pounds of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a quart of 
water; boil until a quart of the syrup may be drawn into threads 
between the thumb and finger — usually about twenty minutes; 
clarify with the whites of two eggs, beaten. This syrup may be 
bottled and kept for use. 

PINEAPPLE WATER ICE. 

One-half pound of fresh pineapple, the juice of one lemon, half a 
pint of water, and one pint of clarified syrup. Chop the pineapple as 
fine as possible; add the lemon juice, sugar and water. Strain and 
freeze. 

GRAPE WATER ICE. 

Take the juice of four lemons, the grated peel of an orange, half 
a pint of water, one pint of clarified syrup, two glassfuls of grape 
syrup, and one of sherry. Stir the ingredients well together, strain 
and freeze. 

GINGER WATER ICE. 

Six ounces of preserved ginger, and one quart of lemon water ice, 
when ready to freeze. 

CHERRY WATER ICE. 

One pound of cherries, stoned and mashed, the juice of two 
lemons, half a pint of water, and a pint of clarified syrup. Strain 
the other ingredients before adding the syrup. Stir thoroughly and 
freeze. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 281 



CANDIES. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one and a half of water, half a teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, and butter the size of a small walnut. Flavor 
with vanilla. Do not stir while it is boiling; when it will drop to 
the bottom of a dish of cold water, and is not brittle it has cooked 
enough ; if brittle it will have to be returned to the stove and a little 
more water added. Stir briskly while cooling; then make into balls 
or any shape preferred; the meats from any kinds of nuts may be 
chopped and stirred into the candy while warm; press it into little 
paper cases, well buttered ; when cold take it from the cases and cut 
into the desired shape ; or, dip the meats whole, into the candy, when 
just warm to coat them nicely, and put on buttered paper to drain. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One quart of molasses, half a cupful of vinegar, one cupful of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of soda. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the vinegar, mix with the molasses, and boil, stir- 
ring frequently, until it hardens, when a little to test it is dropped 
into cold water; then stir in the butter and soda (dissolved in a little 
hot water) ; give one hard final stir and pour on buttered dishes. 
Work with buttered hands and pull in long sticks; put on dishes; 
v/hen cold it may be easily cut. 

MOLASSES TAFFY. 

Boil a pint of molasses for twenty minutes, then stir in two 
saicct^c-nfuls of baking-soda and boil for, fifteen minutes more, 
or until a Jjtde dropped into cold water is brittle. You must stir 
the taffy constantly while boiling, or it •^ill scorch. When it is 
done add a teaspoonful of vinegar and pour into buttered pans, or 
pull to a light brown. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Wet two heaping cupfuls of granulated sugar with a half pint 
of cold water and put over the fire in a porcelain-lined saucepan. 
When the sugar is dissolved, stir in a bit of cream of tartar (as 
large as a Lima bean) dissolved in a spoonful of cold water. Boil 



?82 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



the cand}^ until a bit hardens when dropped into cold water; re- 
move from the fire, stir in a teaspoonful of vanilla, turn into greased 
pans, mark into squares and set aside to harden. Or, as the candj' 
cools, pull it with buttered finger-tips into long white ropes. Let 
it get very cold and brittle before eating. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

Melt one-quarter cup of butter. Mix together in a separate 
dish one cup of white sugar, one cup of brown sugar, one-quarter 
cup of molasses and one-half cup of cream. Add this to the butter, 
and after it has been brought to a boil continue boiling for two and 
one-half minutes, stirring rapidly. Then add two squares of choco- 
late scraped fine. Boil this five minutes, stirring it first rapidly, and 
,then more slowly towards the end. After it has been taken from 
the fire, add one and one-half teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Then stir 
constantly until the mass thickens. Pour into buttered pan and set 
in a cool place. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE WITH FRUIT. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of molas- 
ses, one-half cup of butter; mix all together and boil seven minutes; 
add one-half cup of chocolate and boil seven minutes longer. Then 
add two tablespoonfuls of figs, two tablespoonfuls of raisins, one-half 
cup of English walnuts and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

WELLESLEY MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 

Heat two cups of granulated sugar and one cup of rich milk 
(cream is better). Add two squares of chocolate, and boil until it 
hardens in cold water. Just before it is done add a small piece of 
butter, then begin to stir in marshmallows, crushing and beating them 
with a spoon. Continue to stir in marshmallows, after the fudge has 
been taken from the fire, until half a pound has been stirred into the 
fudge. Cool in sheets three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut in 
cubes. ' 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Soak four ounces of pulverized gum arabic in a teacupful of 
cold w^ter for two hours. Put into a double boiler with cold water 
in the outer vessel and bring gradually to the scalding point. When 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 283 

the gum is dissolved, strain through coarse muslin, return to the 
double boiler with a heaping cupful of powdered sugar, and stir 
steadily until the mixture is white and stiff. Remove from the fire, 
beat verj' hard for a minute and flavor with vanilla; beat a minute 
longer, and pour into tins, the insides of which have been rubbed 
with corn'starch. When the paste is cool cut it into squares of uni- 
form size and turn each of these over and over in a mixture made of 
three parts corn starch and one part powdered sugar. Keep packed 
in a tin box until wanted, as they soon dry if exposed to the air. 

CREAMED ENGLISH WALNUTS. 

For this use the large English walnuts, cracking them carefully 
so as not to break the kerijels. Remove each half in one piece and free 
it from all bits of shell. 

Heat over boiling water half a pound of fondant like that for 
which directions have been given in the recipe for chocolate creams. 
Flavor it with a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, stir it until it be- 
comes creamy and dip into it with a pair of small sugar tongs the 
half of the walnut. Lift it out carefully and lay it on waxed paper 
until it is dry. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Beat the white of an egg light with a teaspoonful of sugar, add 
a teaspoonful of vanilla and enough confectioner's sugar to make a 
mixture stiff enough to be rolled into balls. Beat very smooth, then 
form- into balls the size of a small marble, and spread in a pan to 
get stiff and firm. Cover with a chocolate coating. 

PEANUT CANDY. 
Boil together two and one-half cupfuls of sugar and a gill of 
water, without stirring, until a little, when dropped into cold water, 
can be worked into a soft ball. Now add atablespoonful of butter 
and boil until the candy hardens when dropped into cold water. Stir 
in a cupful of shelled, roasted and skinned peanuts, turn the mix- 
ture into a buttered pan and cut into squares. 



PURE FOOD ASSURANCE 

Repeated Analysis and 
Experiment have Proved , 

^mcef)at Jflaboring Cxtractg 

TO BE ABSOLUTELY PURE AND TRUSTWORTHY 

Satisfactory Results Guaranteed 

\ 
A REVELATION TO THE FASTIDIOUS TASTE 
A BREATH FROM THE LAND OF THE GEISHA 

Jaya Garden Tea 

^vi exQU»£(ite tlenb tree from all impurities! 
SIXTY CENTS PER LB. 

In air tight 1-4, 1-2 and 1 lb. packages 

ACKER, MERRALL & CONDIT COMPANY 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 285 

TEA, COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE. 

There are many Coffees, but only one Mauna. 

MAKING GOOD COFFEE. 

There are various ways suggested by those who know and those 
who do not know. The only perfect way to make coffee, in our 
belief, is to use the Universal Coffee Percolator. 

The proportions are one heaping tablespoonful of coffee to one 
cup of boiling water, whether drip or boiled coffee is to be made ; but 
something does depend upon the number of people. One-half cupful 
of ground coffee and one quart of water will make coffee for five 
people, but for one person one tablespoonful of coffee and one cupful 
of water will not suffice, for the old idea of allowing so much for 
the pot has reason in its being. 

The secret of good coffee lies in having the best ingredients and 
in the proper making. By the best ingredients are meant those de- 
lightful coffees grown on well-watered mountain slopes, such as the 
famous Java and Mocha coffees, the Mocha and Java mixed half and 
half. 

Good coffee should never be boiled. Bear this in mind. The good 
Creole cook never boils coffee, but insists on dripping it in a covered 
strainer, slowly, slowly, drip, drip, drip, till all the flavor is ex- 
tracted. The water must be freshly boiled, and must never be poured 
upon the grounds until it has reached the boiling point. 

It is of the greatest importance that the coffee pot be kept per- 
fectly clean. This point is only too often overlooked, and yet the 
coffee pot requires more than ordinary care, for the reason that the 
chemical action of the coffee upon the tin or agate tends to create a 
substance which collects and clings to every crevice and seam, and, 
naturally, in the course of time will affect the flavor of the coffee. 
Very often the fact that the coffee tastes bitter or muddy arises from 
this. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

Scald out the coffee pot, and see that it is thoroughly heated. 
Grind the coffee, put it in the coffee pot, add the water, boiling, cover 
the spout and let the water come to the boiling point. Stir in an egg- 
shell, crushed, and mixed with one tablespoonful of cold water. Let 
the coffee boil one minute. Let it stand where it will keep hot, but 
not boil, for ten minutes, and serve. 



286 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



TEA. 



A LESSON IN TEA. 

1. Tea is the only beverage of which the purity and quality is 
protected by the United States government. The law passed by Con- 
gress in 1897, forbids the importation of adulterated, impure and 
spurious tea. 

2. Tea is the most economical beverage in the world. There are 
from 300 to 350 cups of tea to the pound, therefore at 50 cents per 
pound, five cups of this "tongue running, heart opening, wink tippling 
cordial" can be had at a cost of one cent. It is unwise to buy low 
grades of tea, when at $1 per pound the cost of two cups is under one 
cent. 

3. To prepare tea perfectly, observe the following rules: 

1. Take one teaspoonful of tea for every cup of water, indi- 
vidual taste must decide whether even or heaping. 

2. Water must be fresh and boiling thoroughly at the time 
of pouring on the leaves, which should be in a warm earthenware 
teapot. ' 

3. The water must remain on the leaves five minutes, never 
more or less, then strained into another heated vessel to be served 
when desired. 

This guarantees the most refreshing and harmless beverage known 
to civilization. 

COLD TEA. 

Strain the liquid from the leaves within a few minutes after it is 
poured on. Set away until cold. Half fill glasses with cracked ice ; 
add a slice of peeled lemon, a squeeze of lemon juice (if desired) and 
granulated sugar to taste. 

TEA ON TRAIN. 

Put into a little cheesecloth bag or square a half-teaspoonful of 
tea. Make as many of these drawings as you expect to use on your 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 287 



trip. When ready for a refreshing cup of tea ask the porter to bring 
you a pot of hot water, drop your tea bag into the bottom of your 
cup and pour the hot water over. Let it infuse three or four min- 
utes, remove the bag and drink. After using these little bags throw 
out, and you have no untidy mess of tea leaves to reckon with. A 
basket of fruit that is not easily perishable, a little tin box of pre- 
served ginger, a glass of jam if you will, and with occasional supple- 
menting of bread or fruit at places where you make long stops, you 
can achieve even a long journey comfortably and economically. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Heat two cupfuls of milk and the same of water. Rub six table- 
spoonfuls of chocolate to a thin, smooth paste with cold water; pour^ 
the water gradually upon it ; put into a saucepan and bring it quickly" 
to a boil. Cook thus five minutes, pour in the milk and boil ten min- 
utes longer. Sweeten to the taste of each drinker, and lay a table- 
spoonful of whipped cream upon the top. 

CHOCOLATE, VIENNA STYLE. 

Use four ounces of vanilla chocolate, one quart of milk, three 
tablespoonfuls of hot water, and one tablespoonful of sugar. 

Cut the chocolate in fine bits. Put the milk on the stove in the 
double boiler, and when it has been heated to the boiling point, put 
the chocolate, sugar and water in a small iron or granite-ware pan, 
and stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into 
the hot milk, and beat well with a whisk. Serve at once, putting a 
tablespoonful of whipped cream in each cup and then filling up with 
the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, but in 
that case use a teaspoonful of vanilla extract and three generous table- 
spoonfuls of sugar instead of one. 

BREAKFAST COCOA. 

For six cups use two tablespoonfuls of powdered cocoa, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, half a pint of boiling water and a pint and a half 
of milk. Put the milk on the stove in the double boiler. Put the 
cocoa and sugar in a saucepan, and gradually pour the hot water upon 



288 The New Lucile Cook Book. 



them, stirring all the time. Place the saucepan on the fire and stir 
until the contents boil. Let this mixture boil for five minutes; then 
add the boiling milk, and serve. 

A gill of cream is a great addition to this cocoa. 

COCOA NIBS. 

Put two ounces of cocoa nibs into a quart of boiling water, cook 
slowly one hour, strain and add a quart of boiling hot milk; take from 
the fire and serve. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 289 



SUMMER BEVERAGES. 

During the summer the system demands cold and refreshing 
drinks, and the housewife who understands this and regularly sup- 
plies a variety of really good drinks does much to preserve the health 
o^ the family as well as to increase their immediate comfort. 

Alcohol is to be shunned like the plague during the heated term. 
In a large proportion of the cases where men are struck down by the 
heat, over-indulgence in beer or whiskey and consequent overheating 
of the blood and congestion affecting the brain is one of the causes. 

Here are recipes for several delectable drinks that may be made 
at home at very small cost, and which serve to allay the thirst and 
produce no dangerous after-efFects. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP 

is the basis of a delightful beverage. Put six tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate into a saucepan over the fire, add two cupfuls of boiling 
water, simmer slowly, stirring occasionally until dissolved. Add four 
cupfuls of granulated sugar, stir until dissolved, remove the spoon, 
simmering for seven minutes longer. Now strain, and add two table- 
spoonfuls vanilla extract, and pour into bottles, which should be her- 
metically sealed. When ready to serve allow one and a half gills of 
ice-cold milk and two tablespoonfuls of syrup for every glassful re- 
quired ; put them in a large, cold fruit jar, shake well for three min- 
utes, pour into chilled glasses and drop a teaspoonful of whipped 
cream on each. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANTADE 

is made by heating over the fire one quart of currants and one quart 
of red or black raspberries, which crush and strain. Bring half a 
pound of granulated sugar and two gills of hot water to boiling point. 
When cold add the fruit juice and sufficient ice water to make a 
pleasant drink. Serve with pieces of ice in each glass. 

CURRANT WATER. 

Required : One pound of ripe red currants, half a pound of lump 
sugar, half a pound of castor sugar, three pints of water. 

Stalk and pick over the currants, then mash them with a wooden 
spoon, adding as you do so half a pint of water. Next put the fruit 



290 The New Lucii.e Cook Book. 



into a preserving-pan with the castor sugar. Stir it over the fire until 
it begins to simmer, then pass it through a hair sieve. Put the lump 
sugar into a pan with three gills of boiling water, let the sugar dis- 
solve, then boil it to a syrup; pour this on to the fruit juice, adding 
one and a half pints more water. Serve cold. 

GINGER BEER. 

Required : Two lemons, one ounce of ginger, one ounce of cream 
of tartar, three pounds of loaf sugar, three gallons of boiling water, 
two large tablespoonfuls of brewer's yeast, or two ounces of com- 
pressed yeast. 

Put the thinly-pared rinds and juice of the lemons in a large 
earthenware pan with the ginger, which should be first slightly 
bruised, the cream of tartar and loaf sugar. Pour onto these the boil- 
ing water, then add the yeast — if compressed yeast is used it must be 
mixed until it becomes liquid with two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 

Stir all well together, cover the pan, and let the beer stand in a 
warm place until next day. Then skim off the 3'east carefully, pour 
the beer into clear bottles, taking care to leave the sediment behind. 
Cork the bottle tightly, and in four days the beer will be ready for 

A REFRESHING DRINK FOR SUMMER. 

Put into a tumbler about two tablespoonfuls of broken ice, two 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate syrup, three tablespoonfuls of whipped 
cream, one gill of milk, and half a gill of soda water from a siphon 
bottle, or ApolUnaris water. Stir w^ell before drinking. A table- 
rpoonful of vanilla ice cream is a desirable addition. It is a delicious 
drink, even if the soda or Apollinaris water and ice cream be omitted. 
A plainer drink is made by combining tlie syrup, a gill and a half of 
milk and the ice, and shaking well. 

LEMONADE. 

Required: Two lemons, one pint of boiling water, two ounces of 
loaf sugar. 

Pare the lemons very thinly and put the peel in a jug; next take 
ofi every scrap of pith from the lemons, otherw isc the lemonade will 
have a bitter flavor. Slice the lemons thinly, and after taking out all 
the pips, put the slices in the jug, add the sugar, and then pour on the 
boiling water. Cover the jug and let it stand until the lemonade is 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 291 



cold. Then strain it into a clean jug, pressing the slices well. If 
possible add a few lumps of ice and a slice or two of lemons to it be- 
fore serving. 

Where it is difficult to procure fresh lemons, lemonade may be 
made from essence of lemon and citric acid. 

Care must be taken, however, to purchase a reliable brand of 
essence of lemon. 

FRUIT LEMONADE. 

Mix together one cupful each of lemon juice and the juice of any 
fruit in season, such as raspberries, currants, pineapple, etc. ; where 
the flavors blend well (as currants and raspberries) two or more 
fruits may be taken. Make agreeably sweet with sugar syrup, then 
measure and add three to four times as much ice water. Serve thor- 
oughly iced. Sugar syrup is made by boiling together for five minutes 
one pint and a half of sugar and one pint of water. This syrup will 
keep well if bottled and put aside in a cool place, and mixes more 
leadily with lemonade and kindred drinks than powdered sugar. 

HOPKOS. 

Boil three-quarters of an ounce of hops and half an ounce of 
gmger in one quart of water for twent-\'-five minutes; add one pound 
of brow'n sugar, boil for ten minutes longer, pour into a can and add 
five quarts more boiling water. Bottle when cold. It is then ready 
for drinking. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To four quarts of red raspberries put enough vinegar to cover and 
let them stand twenty-four hours ; scald and strain it ; add a pound of 
sugar to one pint of juice; boil it twenty minutes and bottle; it is 
then ready for use, and will keep for years. To one glass of w^ater 
add a great spoonful. It is much relished by the sick. Very nice. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Wash two and a half ounces of barley and put it into a little boil- 
ing water. After cooking a few minutes pour off and add two quarts 
of fresh boiling water, and let all cook slowly in a perfectly clean 
saucepan until reduced one-half. 

When cold, flavor with a little lemon juice. 



292 Thk New Lucile Cook Hook. 

CIDER CUP. 

Required : One quart of cider, two bottles of soda water, one 
bottle of lemonade, one ounce of castor sugar, two inches of cinna- 
mon, a sprig of mint. 

Cut a cucumber into slices without peeling it. Put it in a jug 
with the sugar, cider and mint. Let it stand, on ice, if possible, for 
two hours. Then add the lemonade and soda water, and if possible 
ice and remove the mint. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAILS. 

Cut perfect berries in halves, sweeten very highly with powdered 
sugar. Add to each pint of berries the juice of two lemons (about 
two tablespoonfuls), and four tablespoonfuls of orange juice. Set on 
ice to chill thoroughly, and just before serving, add to each pint one- 
fourth of a pint of cherry, maraschino or champagne. Some palates 
prefer a little creme de menthe in place of the wine. Serve in cock- 
tail glasses. 

The top of each portion may be garnished with a very little finely 
minced fresh mint leaves, or with candied mint leaves, or a brandied 
cherry may be used. Place the glasses containing the cocktails on a 
plate with doyly under the glass. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

To one quart of blackberry juice, extracted by the fruit press, take 
one quart of syrup made as directed, one teaspoonful of mace, two 
teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of allspice, four tea- 
spoonfuls of ground cinnamon. 

Add the fruit juices and spices to the syrup and boil until a syrup 
is formed. Take from the fire and cool. When cool add one pint 
of brandy to every quart of fruit juice used ; strain through a muslin 
bag, bottle and cork. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP. 

Into a granite-ware saucepan put one ounce — three tablespoonfuls 
— of soluble chocolate, and gradually pour on it half a pint of boiling 
water, stirring all the time. Place on the fire, and stir until all the 
chocolate is dissolved. Now add one pint of granulated sugar, and 
stir until it begins to boil. Cook for three minutes longer, then strain 
and cool. When cool, add one tablespoonful of vanilla extract. 
Bottle, and keep in a cold place. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 293 



RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

For every cupful of fruit juice take one-half cupful of cider vin- 
egar and two cupfuls of sugar. Put the fruit juice, sugar and vin- 
egar over the fire, stir until the sugar dissolves and boil to a thick 
syrup. Skim, if necessary, strain and bottle. 

All fruit juices are used in the same manner. When served, allow 
one-fourth cupful of syrup to three-fourths cupful of ice water. 
Should the syrup be too thin, do not adhere to this proportion of 
water. Taste is the best guide. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE. 

One pint water, one cup sugar, one can grated pineapple, juice of 
three lemons. Make syrup by boiling water and sugar together ten 
minutes; add pineapple and lemon juice; cool, strain and add one 
quart ice water. 

PINEAPPLE DRINK. 

Pare and remove the eyes from a large ripe pineapple, then grate 
it and add the juice of four lemons. Make a syrup by boiling four 
cupfuls of sugar and two cups of w^ater for five minutes, add the 
grated pineapple and juice. 

When ccld, add one quart of water. Chill thoroughly before 
serving. 

LEMON SODA. 

The juice of one lemon, a tumblerful of cold w-ater, pounded sugar 
to taste, half a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Squeeze the 
juice from the lemon, strain, and add it to the water, with sufficient 
pounded sugar to sweeten the w^hole nicely. When well mixed, put 
in the soda, stir well and drink while the mixture is in an effervescent 
state. 

LEMON SYRUP 
is made with three quarts of water and three pounds of sugar boiled 
for five minutes. Strain and add one ounce of tartaric acid and allow 
to dissolve. Flavor with lemon juice to taste, then bottle for use. 

One tablespoonful of this syrup will be sufficient for a glass of ice 
water. 

ICED TEA. 

Prepare tea in the morning, making it stronger and sweeter than 
usual; strain and pour into a stone jug or glass bottle, and set aside 



294 Thk New Llcii.i: Cook Hook.. 



in the icechest until ready to use. Drink from goblets without cream. 
Serve ice broken in small pieces on a platter nicclj- garnished with 
well-washed grape leaves. 

Iced tea may be prepared from either green or black alone, but it 
is considered an improvement to mix the two. Tea made like that 
for iced tea (or that left in the teapot after a meal), with sugar to 
taste, a slice or two of lemon, a little of the juice, and some pieces 
of cracked ice, makes a delightful drink. 

Serve in glasses. 

KOUMISS. 

Mix one pint of buttermilk with four pints of sweet milk and five 
pieces of lump sugar. Pour the whole from one pitcher to an- 
other till the sugar is melted. It takes from ten to fifteen minutes. 
Cover with muslin and allow to stand in a warm part of the kitchen 
for twelve hours. 

Pour into pint bottles, tie down the corks, and in four days it is 
ready for use. The bottles should be left lying on their sides in a cool 
place. 

MILK SHAKE. 

Have ready some sugar syrup made according to the directions 
in the recipe for iced orange juice. Sweeten a half pint of un- 
skimmed milk with the syrup ; flavor with a half teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract; turn into the glass of your shaker, and add enough 
crushed ice to fill the glass to the brim. Shake long and hard be- 
fore pouring into a chilled tumbler. 

EGG-NOGG. 

Beat until very light, the yolk of one egg and a teaspoonful of 
sugar; then add the white of the egg beaten to a stifF froth. Stir well 
together, pour into a glass, and add a teaspoonful of rum or brandy 
and as much milk as the glass will hold. It will give more nourish- 
ment if whipped cream is used instead of milk. 

Serve with grated nutmeg over the top. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 293 



FORTY RECIPES OF THE FOUR HUNDRED." 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 

MRS. GROVER CLEVELAND'S CELEBRATED RECIPE 
FOR BROWN BREAD. 

One bowl Indian meal, one bowl rye flour, one bowl sour milk, 
one large cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt. 
The whole must be mixed thoroughly and steamed two and one-half 
hours, then baked from twenty minutes to a half hour, depending 
upon the heat of the oven. 

JANICE MEREDITH'S MAIZE BREAD. 

One-half pint corn meal, scald with half cup of boiling water, one 
teaspoon salt, two eggs, one cup milk, one large teaspoon baking- 
powder. Mix thoroughlj^ bake in a pudding-dish and serve with a 
spoon. 

THOMAS JEFFERSON'S LAPLAND CAKES. 

Three eggs beaten very light and stirred in a pint of cream, then 
mix in one pint of flour, beating until perfectly smooth. Grease your 
shapes, pour in the batter and bake very quickly. 

WAFFLES. 

(Mrs. Joseph Patterson, Philadelphia.) 

One quart milk, two eggs, half teacup rice flour, two tablespoons 
yeast powder, and enough flour to make batter. 

CLERMONT MUFFINS. 

(Mrs. Robert K. Livingstone, New York, 1775.) 

Two eggs, two tablespoons butter, one large teacup cream, sweet 
or sour, one saltspoon of salt, flour enough for a very soft dough. 
Mix well, shape into small balls the size of an English walnut. Roll 
out in thin cakes, each one about the size of a dessert plate, not much 
thicker than paper. Bake in a pan in front of a hot fire. 




By Royal Appointment, Regularh Supplied to 
H. M. King Ednxiard VII. 
H. R. H. The Prince of Wales 




V>rLrVli/l3vyO O/Vl^ 1 recommended by 

tKte ^fjilaJJ^IptJia Retool of Coofeerp 

(405 NORTH 33 D STREET) 

They say — "We prefer CcrebOSi ^alt to others because it 
is excellnit, economical and wholesome. . . . We always recom- 
mend CcrefaOSf ^alt on account of its superior quality." 



EOR SALE BY 



^cfeer, Jlerrall $c Conbit Co. 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 297 

POPOVERS. 

(Mrs. Gouverneur Ogden, New York.) 
One egg, well beaten, one cup sweet milk, one cup sifted flour, 
salt to taste. Drop in hot gem tins and bake quickly. 

SOUPS. 

CALVES' HEAD SOUP. 

(Mrs. Julia Breckenridge, Va.) 

Put head in water to soak, then in salt water to boil (take brains 
out and tie in bag to boil). Strain liquor, cut all meat and brains in 
dice, six potatoes cut small, dumplings made of flour, water and lard ; 
small ; add red pepper, three bunches pot-herbs, tablespoon sweet mar- 
joram, four hard-boiled eggs cut fine. Meat balls (meat chopped fine 
with salt, pepper and flour) fried in butter; sherry to taste. 

BEAN SOUP. 

(Mrs. George Newbold Lawrence of New York.) 

Put one pint of kidney beans into two quarts of water, boil them 
three hours, then pour off the water, mash the beans through a 
colander, then with a wooden masher, then throw them back into the 
water in which they were boiled, add a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, a little salt and red pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour. 
Add a wineglass of white wine. 

GENERAL BURNSIDE'S CLAM SOUP. 

Two quarts clams, two onions, three quarts water. Boil two 
hours and then strain. Scald one quart milk thickened with a spoon- 
ful of flour, seasoned to taste. Chop the clams fine and remove the 
black out of the stomachs. 

FISH, 

FISH A LA CREME. 

(Mrs. Allen Maury, Ashland, Va.) 

Take four pounds halibut, whitefish, rock or shad and boil in salt 
and water. When done take off the skin, remove bones and shred 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 



fine. To one quart of cream mix well three tablespoons flour, one- 
fourth pound butter, one-half onion, one bunch parsley and a little 
cayenne pepper. Put into a deep dish, a layer first of fish and then 
of sauce until dish is filled. Put on top bread crumbs and bake one- 
half hour. 

STUFFED CRABS. 
(Mrs. Meredith Bailey.) 

Cook the crabs twenty minutes. When cold, cut them in two 
parts, clean the shells well and keep. Take out and hash the meat. 
Make bechamel sauce with cream, not too thick; add one onion hashed 
fine, and fry in butter. Spice strongly with cayenne pepper, mustard, 
spices and nutmeg. Cook crabs in this sauce ten minutes, add crumbs, 
and thicken with yolks of eggs. Bechamel sauce — Mix cold and well 
together :'n a saucepan two ounces of butter, one tablespoonful flour, 
add one pint of milk, set on fire, stir constantly. When turning rather 
thick, take off. Beat a yolk of egg with teaspoon of water. Turn it 
into the sauce; season. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 
(Mrs. General William B. Franklin, Hartford, Conn.) 

Mince lobster or crab fine. Boil one quart milk and stir in slowly 
two large tablespoons flour, mixed smooth with a little cold milk. 
Season with black and red pepper, .chopped parsley and a bit of onion. 
Fill dish with alternate layers of lobster and cream. Sprinkle bread 
crumbs on top and brown in oven. 

TERRAPIN BROWN STEW. 

(Mr. Joe McAllister, Savannah, Ga.) 
Have the terrapins boiled with onion, cloves and mace and celery 
seed. Add bread and black pepper and salt. When nearly done, put 
them into a chafing-dish into which you have mashed two large spoon- 
fuls browned flour, two of butter and a teaspoon of powdered all- 
spice. Boil until quite thick, add a glass of wine. Eat with lemon 
juice. 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 

(Mrs. Junius B. Mosby, Richmond.) 

Six quarts of water in an iron pot, two medium-sized chickens, 

two slices bacon. Boil until meat is falling to pieces. Take out and 

chop fine, putting meat and bones back in pot. Add six large tomatoes, 



The New Llcile Cook Book. 299 

rne pint butter beans, six medium-sized onions, season with salt, red 
and black pepper to taste. After this has cooked for one hour add six- 
Irish potatoes cut in slices. One-half hour before serving add six ears 
of corn with grain split and one-fourth pound of butter. Best to 
cook in thick iron pot and constantly stir to prevent burning. 

A LARGE OMELET. 

(Mr. and Mrs. John Cadwalader, Philadelphia.) 

Beat twelve eggs, yolks and whites, to a froth ; add two middling- 
sized onions, handful of fresh parsley, chop very fine and mince. Beat 
these ingredients into the eggs, pepper and salt to taste. Fry it in 
boiling hot butter — five minutes is long enough — over a brisk fire. 
The eggs will form into a pancake in the frying-pan ; when done 
double it lightly in half and dish it up hot to your table. (The 
French frequently add a little garlic or fresh leeks.) 

PASTRIFS AND SWEETS. 

SPICE CAKE. 

(Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt.) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, four eggs, four 
cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Sea Foam baking-powder, one teaspoon- 
kil ground cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg. 

A VIRGINIA PUDDING. 

(Miss Cary Randolph, of "Edgehill," Virginia.) 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of cream, one teacup of white 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, grated rind of one lemon ; beat yolks, sugar 
and lemon together and stir in the crumbs; bake a light brown. When 
it is done, spread over the top currant jelly or any small preserve; 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, spread on top ; serve either 
hot or cold. 

LEMON PIE. 

(Mrs. Nicholas Roosevelt, New York.) 

One lemon, grate the rind and squeeze the juice, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup of water, j^olks of three eggs ; boil 



.^oo I'nE New Lucile Cook Book. 

all until quite stitt. When the pie is baked a light brown, cover with 
the whites of the eggs to a froth with sugar, brown again in the oven. 

DOLLY MADISON'S WHIM. 

(This is Mrs. Dolly's own favorite cake, and was taken from the 
original book.) 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped ; six eggs and a wineglass of 
brandy, one nutmeg, a tablespoon of mace, one dessertspoon of soda 
dissolved in a wineglass of hot water ; beat the butter to a cream ; rub 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, add the butter, whip the 
whites to a stifiE frost ; add alternately with the flour, then the brandy 
and the nutmeg, and lastly the soda. Stir the whole mixture lightly 
and quickly and bake in a deep pan with the same heat required for 
pound cake. 

FRENCH PLUM PUDDING. 
(Mrs. Charles Brinton Coxe, Philadelphia.) 

One-fourth pound of sifted flour, one-fourth pound of bread 
crumbs, one-fourth pound of currants, one-fourth pound of raisins, 
two chopped apples, a little citron, one-half pound of suet, one-half 
pound of sugar, of which half must be browned to caramel; one small 
glass of brandy. Boil three and one-half hours in mold and eat with 
wine sauce. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

(Mrs. Nicholas Roosevelt, New York.) 

Cake — Three eggs, pinch of salt, one cup of sugar, one and three- 
quarter cups of flour, half a lemon, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one-half spoonful of soda dissolved in warm milk. Russe 
— Three-fourths pint of cream well whipped, two cups of sugar, 
whites of three eggs beaten light, one-half glass of wine, vanilla, table- 
spoon of gelatine dissolved in warm water. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

(Miss Schuyler, New York.) 

One pumpkin prepared, one pint of milk boiling, two tablespoons 
of butter, two cups of brown sugar, one large cup of dark molasses, 



I 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 301 



pinch of salt and mace, three tablespoons of ginger, two tablespoons 
of cinnamon; mix ginger and cinnamon with a little of the pumpkin 
until smooth ; add the boiling milk, then the pumpkin, and boil fifteeji 
minutes ; then beat four eggs light and stir in, not boil as for custard. 
Put in paste while hot. This makes three large pies. 

STILL-FROZEN ICE CREAM. 

(Mrs. Cadwalader Jones, Bar Harbor.) 

One quart strawberries (or any fruit), one pint sugar; mash well 
together. Put through a strainer and add one quart thick cream, mix- 
ing it well with a wooden spoon. Put in a mold and wrap the mold 
in a towel and bury in ice and salt for five hours. 

ICES AND TODDIES. 

SHERBET. 

(Mrs. Seth Barton French.) 

One gallon of water, twelve lemons, six oranges, one cup of cream, 
whites of eight eggs and sweeten to your taste. 

JOHN DABNEY'S MINT JULEP. 

(General Dabney H. Maury, Richmond, Va.) 

Crushed ice, as much as you can pack in, and sugar, mint bruised 
and put in with the ice, then your good whiskey, and the top sur- 
m.ounted by more mint, a strawberry, a cherry, a slice of pineapple, 
or, as John expressed it, "any other fixings you like." 

ROBERT E. LEE PUNCH. 

One and a half gallons (six quarts) Jamaica rum, eight quarts 
Apollinaris, two pounds sugar, one jar or can Maraschino cherries, 
one and a half dozen lemons, one can sliced pineapple, one small 
tumbler raspberry cordial. Reserve three quarts of Apollinaris; just 
before serving add, to produce an effervescent effect. It is best to 
place bowl of punch on a block of ice for some time before serving, 
instead of putting ice in the punch. Then look out for the nearest 
lamp-post. 



FOR 65 YEARS 




PURE LEAF LARD 

has been the standard of purity in New 
England. It is the most economical Lard 
to buy because of its purity, and it will 
shorten more per pound than any other 
Lard. 

JOHN P. SQUIRE & COMPANY, Boston 

MAKERS OF ARLINGTON SAUSAGE 
CURERS OF SQUIRE'S HIGH-GRADE 
HAMS AND BACON 







SQUIRE'S 
ington Sausage. 

A high-grade Sausage at a moderate price. 
Contains nothing but the choicest selected meat, 
chopped (not ground) and 
seasoned with pure spices.' 
"A Breakfast Delicacy," 
in pound packages. Sure to 
be clean because double 
wrapped in parchment paper at the factory. 




Made only by 






JOHN P. SQUIRE & COMPANY, 

Boston, Mass. 



Makers of Squire's Kettle Rendered Pure 
Leaf Lard and Squire's High- 
•% \ C^X Grade Hams and 

^#~1IE#\ Bacon. , 



The New Lucile Cook Book. 303 

RHINE WINE CUP. 
(Dr. S. Naudain Duer of Philadelphia.) 

One quart Rhine wine, one wineglass gin (the best), one curacoa. 
Mix in large-mouthed pitcher with one large piece of ice. Just before 
serving enliven with two short ''squirts" from a siphon of plain soda. 
The cup may be improved by a small piece of cucumber rind, left in 
for a few minutes only, as more than the faintest taste of cucumber 
will spoil it. Serve in Apollinaris glasses with a few sprigs of mint. 

TEA PUNCH. 
(Mrs. Francis T. Bojkin, Richmond, Va.) 

Three cups of strong green tea, into which put the rind of six 
lemons pared very thin, one and a half pounds of sugar, with the juice 
of six lemons. Stir together a few moments, and then let the ririd of 
the lemon remain several hours in the mixture to give flavor; then 
strain ofF and add one quart of the best rum, or three pints of good 
sherry. Fill glasses with crushed ice when serving. It will keep any 
time when put in bottles. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 06561 042 8 



/ ^ -^o /(-V 



