^iii^^«2^^^^.i? 




""wiiPfcii^ om-T-iii 



"vsifntt^i 



-ft 



^ 



y 





THE MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER AND CATERER 




o 
o 

< 
O 

00 

< 

Qi 

z 

O 

o 

UJ 

a, 

O 
O 



THE 

MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER 
AND CATERER 



A PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORK 
FOR THE BAKING AND ALLIED TRADES 



EDITED BY 

JOHN KIRKLAND 

LECTURER AND TEACHER OF BREAD- MAKING NATIONAL 
BAKERY SCHOOL BOROUGH POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE LONDON 



WITH CONTRIBUTIONS FROM LEADING 
SPECIALISTS AND TRADE EXPERTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. II 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

THIRTY-FOUR SOUTHAMPTON STREET STRAND LONDON 

1908 



"7/ 




CONTENTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. II 



SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

Page 

Chapter XXV. British Small Breads: Hot-plate Goods- - - 153 

English Muffins — Recipe for Muffins — Coke Hot Heartfi — Gas Hot Plates — Steam- 
pipe Plates — English Crumpets — Scotch Pancakes — Scotch Crumpets— Girdle Scones 
— Sweet Milk Scones — Syrup Scones — Curled Oatcakes. 

Chapter XXVI. British Small Breads: Oven Goods - - - 160 

Oven-baked Soda Bread — Irish Soda Farl — Morning Rolls — Coffee-house Rolls — 
Rasped Rolls — Sponge for Rolls — Nursery Biscuits — Old-style Dinner Rolls — Scotch 
Breakfast Roll or Bap — Irish Baps — Short Process for Baps — Sandwich Baps — York- 
shire Teacakes — Scotch Teacakes— Pulled Bread. 

Chapter XXVII. British Special and Fancy Breads - - - 165 

Definitions of Fancy Bread — Effects of Loose Definition in England — Compounded 
Breads — Allowable Additions to Bread — Effects of Added Milk or Butter — Confusion 
of Bread Names — Windsor or Castle Loaf — Relative Prices of Fancy and Plain Bread 
— Iron Box for Batch Bread — Straight Dough for Windsors — Limerick Cottage Bread 
— Jenny Lind Loaf — Prevention of Blisters and Holes — Linds from Sponge and 
Dough — Scotch French Loaf — Different Methods of Baking in East and West Scot- 
land — Holes in French Loaves — Rumpy Loaf — Strong Egg Wash — Scotch Coburg — 
Cut Designs on Loaves — Fancy Pan Loaves — Greasing Bread. 

Chapter XXVIII. Harvest Festival Bread 172 

Harvest Festival Bread — Making a Wheatsheaf — Wheat Ears — Making Straws — 
Sheaf Band — Long Harvest Loaf — Printing on Bread. 

Chapter XXIX. Milk Bread 175 

Milk Bread — Faults in Bread made wholly with Milk — Skim Milk Defects — Recipe 
for Milk Bread — Shapes of Milk Bread — Rich Milk Bread — Dried Milk. 

Chapter XXX. Currant and Sultana Bread 178 

Currant Bread — Mixed Fruit Loaf — Rich Fruit Loaf — Special Fruit Loaf — Eggs in 
Bread — Salt in Sweet Loaves — Barm Brak — Irish Fruit Loaves — Scotch Bun Loaves 
— Covering for Bun Loaves — Scotch Currant Bun — Blocking Buns — Baking Timfes 
for Buns — Mixed Spice for Buns. 



vi CONTENTS 

Page 

Chapter XXXI. Hand-made Hard Biscuits 182 

Hand-made Biscuits — Nature of Flour for Biscuits — French, English, and Scotch 
Flour — What makes Biscuits spring — Use of Aerating Agents in Biscuits — Ship 
Biscuit — How to make Biscuit Dough — Rolling or Braking Dough — When Dough 
cracks — Biscuit-cutting Machine — To know when Biscuits are Baked — Drying to pre- 
vent Mould — Water or Cheese Biscuits — Yeast in Biscuits — Cabin Biscuits — Cupped 
Biscuits — Abernethy Biscuits — Aerating Agents in Biscuits — Greasy Dough — Glasgow 
Abernethy Biscuits — Effects of Excessive Fat in Dough — Bath Oliver Biscuits, Fer- 
mented — Mode of Handling — Bath Olivers, Unfermented — Seed Biscuits— Butter 
Shorts — Cracknels — Boiling Process — Cooling and Soaking — Baking Cracknels — 
Ginger Biscuits — Rice Biscuits — Parliament Cakes: Old Method — Parleys: New 
Method — Baking and Keeping — Scotch Parkins. 

Chapter XXXH. Medicinal and Invalid Bread - - - - 188 

Toast for Indigestion — Tops and Bottoms — English Rusks — To Prevent Crumbling 
and Blisters — Malt Extract in Rusks — German and Dutch Rusks — Mode of Making 
Rusks in Germany, &c. — Why Diabetics need Gluten Bread — Preparing Crude Gluten 
for Bread — Use of Starchy Sediment — Moulding Gluten Loaves — Toasting Gluten 
Bread — Disadvantages of using Fresh Gluten — Why Gluten is allowed to Lie— Rich 
Gluten Bread — How to Handle Gluten — Time Gluten Rolls take to Bake — Yeast of 
no Value in Gluten Bread — Size of 3-oz. Gluten Roll — Gluten and Almond Biscuits 
— Bran Biscuits — Rich Almond Cakes — Spurious Gluten Flour — Test for Starch in 
Gluten Flour — Babies' Food — Effects of Baking Flour — Method of Baking Flour, 

Chapter XXXIII. British Vienna Bread: Moulding of Rolls - 192 

French and German Rolls — German Method — Real Vienna Rolls — Flour for Vienna 
Rolls — Sponge for Rolls — Hungarian Flour — Size of Rolls — Bun-divider — Method of 
Proving — Fancy Shapes — Rolls from Straight Dough — True Vienna Bread — Soft 
Rolls — To Mould Kaisers — Number of Points in Kaiser Roll — Cause of Bad Finish — 
How Experts Mould — To Mould Shells — How to Prove and Bake Shells — Crescents 
— How to Prepare Dough — Size of Sheet for Horse Shoe — Moulding Horse Shoes — 
Finish of Horse Shoe — Moulding Cannons — Purpose of Using Cloths — Must not be 
Wetted with Steam. 

Chapter XXXIV. British Vienna Bread: Glazing and Baking - 203 

Glazing Rolls — Water-saturated Atmosphere — Effect of Temperature on Saturation 
Point — Condensation caused by Cold Dough — At what Baking Stage Glazing is 
effected — Why Glazing is difficult in an Ordinary Oven — Boiling Water supplies In- 
sufficient Steam — Heat of Steam under Pressure — Heat of Ordinary and Pressure 
Steam when released — Condition of Glazing in Oven — Why Pressure Steam glazes 
Bread — How to Glaze in Ordinary Oven — Position of Steam Pipes in Oven — Time 
Rolls are Baked — Why Rolls become Soft and Tough — Draw-plate Oven for Vienna 
Bread — Washing with Water — Vienna Oven — Quantity of Steam Needed — Egg 
Glaze for Rolls — Preparing Egg Wash — Why Baked on Tins — Character of Egg- 
glazed Rolls — Cheap Wash for Bread — Preparing Starch Wash — Why Rolls become 
Streaky — Starch Glaze compared with Steam — Steaming under Covers — Glazing in 
Boxes — How to Prepare Rolls for Steam Boxes. 

CONTINENTAL BEEAD 
Chapter XXXV. Continental Vienna Bread 210 

Fashion in Continental Bread — Perfection of Vienna Bread — The Emperor-King's 
Baker — Kaisersemmel — The Mundsemmel — Recipe for Semmel Dough — Proving 
Temperature for Rolls — Influence of Quality of Flour on Rolls — Vienna Yeast — 
Ferment with Vienna Yeast — Method of Mixing and Kneading Dough— South 



CONTENTS vii 

Page 
German Methods — Butter in Rolls — The Wecken Roll — German Wecken Roll — 
Water Wecken and Milk Wecken — Laibel Roll — Kipfel Roll — Dresden Hornchen — 
Seed Rolls— Bretzel— Salt Flavour of Rolls. 

Chapter XXXVI. Continental Common Bread: Belgian, French, 

AND German 214 

Continental Common Bread — Belgian Millers and French Bounties — Smuggling Bread 
on Belgian Frontier. 

Belgian Bread: Belgian Miners and Good Bread. 

French Bread: Shapes of French Bread — Prices of Paris Bread — French Rye 
Bread. 

German Bread: German Rye Bread — Kniippel Rolls — Pumpernickel — Rhenish 
Blackbread — Milling Rye Flour. 

Chapter XXXVII. Continental Common Bread: Dutch Bread - 219 

Dutch Method of Bread-making — Quantities of Yeast and Salt — Method of Knead- 
ing — Low Temperature of Dough — Knip Brood — German or Papped Bread — 
"English" Bread — Dutch Household Bread — Schootyes Bread — Soft Rolls — Dutch 
Rye Bread — Oven for Rye Bread — Dutch Fancy Bread — Currant Bread — Christmas 
Bread — Swedish Rye Bread — Dutch Karlsbad Salt Sticks — Tea Sticks. 

YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPROVERS 
Chapter XXXVIII. Yeast Foods and Stimulants: Bread-improvers 224 

Nature of Yeast discovered — Functions of Yeast in Dough — Essentials of Yeast Food 
— Why Yeast Foods are used in Dough — Function of Yeast Food — Common Yeast 
Foods — No Need for a Yeast Food. 

Potatoes: Composition of Potatoes — Nature of Nitrogenous Matter in Potatoes — 
Potato Starch — Danger of Disease in Potatoes, and Rope in the Bread. 

Scalded Flour : Scalded Flour as Yeast Food — Experiments on Scalded Flour. 

Cane Sugar and Glucose: Effects of Excessive Sugar on Gluten. 

Rye Flour: Rye Flour and its Action — Composition of Rye and Wheat Flour 
compared. 

Germ and Malt Culms : Method of Using Germ— Malt Culms. 

Chapter XXXIX. Bread-improvers 232 

Malt Flour and Malt Extract : Preparation of Malt — Malt and Barley compared 
— Composition of Malt Proteins — Composition of Malt Extracts — Test for Malt 
Extract. 

Milk : Milk as Yeast Food— Milk Sugar— Composition of Dried Milk. 

CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS 
Chapter XL. Chemical Aerating Agents: Soda, Pearlash, etc. - 236 

First Aerating Agents — Liebig Powder — Gas produced by Aerating Agents — Sources 
of Sodium Bicarbonate and Pearlash— Result of heating Sodium Bicarbonate — Effects 
of Washing Soda on Flour- Sour Milk and Soda — Use of Pearlash in Gingerbread, 
&c. — Alum and Pearlash used — Why Gingerbread Aerates when Dough is kept — 
Salt produced by Chemicals— Testing Strength of Acid. 



viii CONTENTS 

Page 

Chapter XLL Chemical Aerating Agents: Baking Powders, etc. - 240 

Tartrate Powders: Tartaric Acid and Soda — Soda and Cream of Tartar — Im- 
purities in Tartrate Powders. 

Alum Powders : Test for Alum in Powders — Residues of Sulphate Powders. t 

Phosphate Powders : Properties of Phosphate Powders. 

Ammonia Powders : Ammonia Compounds — General Test for Aerating Agents. 

Other Methods of Aeration: Dauglish Aeration Method — Raising Properties of 
Eggs — Egg Substitutes for Aerating Purposes — Raising Powers of Yolk of Egg — Fat 
as an Aerating Agent — Why Puff Paste rises — Action of Fat in Short Paste. 

CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 
Chapter XLII. Bakers' Fats: Butter 246 

General Properties of Fats — Action of Heat on Fats — Rancidity and its Cause — 
Neutrality of Pure Oils — Chemical Composition of Oils — Hydrolysis of Fats — 
Saponification of Fats— Action of Alkali on Fat in Baking — Basis of Different Fats — 
Physical Properties of Bakers' Fats — Why Fats are used by the Baker. 

Butter: Chemical Composition of Butter — Water in Butter — Milk-blended Butter — 
Composition of Butter Fat — Influence of Curd in Butter — Colouring of Butter — 
Cause of Flavour — Commercial Value of Butter — Adulterants in Butter — Butter 
Analysis — Moisture — Salt — Curd or Casein — Foreign Fats — Valenta's Test — Micro- 
scopic Test for Butter — Preservatives — Test for Boric Acid — Test for Salicylic Acid 
— Test for Formalin — Test for Fluorides in Butter — Renovated Butter — Clarified 
Butter — General Composition of Edible Fats. 

Chapter XLIII. Bakers' Fats: Margarine, Lard, etc. - - - 253 

Margarine: Butter Substitutes— Animal Fat Extraction — Vegetable Oils in Use — 
Method of Margarine Manufacture — Constituents in Margarine — Average Com- 
position of Margarine — Nature of Fatty Acids in Margarine — Keeping Properties of 
Margarine— Test for Margarine. 

Vegetable Butters. 

Lard : Grades of Lard — Properties of Lard — " Refined " Lard, &c. — Lard Substitutes. 

Artificial Suets. 

Chocolate Fats and Cocoa Butter Substitutes. 

Chapter XLIV. Edible Oils 257 

Olive Oil: Adulteration of Olive Oil — Tests for Adulterants. 

Almond Oil. 

Arachis Oil. 

Cotton-seed Oil : Cotton Stearin — Becchi's Test. 

Maize or Corn Oil. 

Sesame Oil : Baudouin's Test for Sesame Oil. 

Rape or Colza Oil. 

CocoANUT Oil : Butter Properties of Cocoanut Oil 

Palm-nut Oil. 

Palm Oil. 



CONTENTS 



Page 



Chapter XLV. Sugars and Saccharine Materials: Cane and Beet 

Sugar - - - - 263 

Sources of Sugar — Sucroses and Glucoses — Changes from Cane Sugar to Glucose. 

Cane and Beet Sugar: Commercial Sugars— Cane Sugar — Molasses — Foot Sugar — 
Raw Sugar — Moist Sugars — Beet Sugar — Sugar-refining — Rough Test for Yellow 
Crystals — Loaf and Cube Sugars — Granulated Sugar — Pieces Sugar — Test for Ultra- 
marine Colouring — Golden Syrup — Testing Sugars — Barley Sugar — Test for Sugar 
Strength — Proximate Composition of Sugars. 

Chapter XLVI. Sugars and Saccharine Materials: Other Sugars 

and Sugar Substitutes . . 270 

Other Disaccharide Sugars: Sorghum — Maple Sugar — Malt Sugar — Milk Sugar. 

Glucose and Levulose: Starch Sugar — Levulose — Composition of Honey. 

Other Sweetening Substances: Glycerin — Artificial Sweetening Substances — 
Saccharin — Action of Saccharin on Enzymes and Ferments — Dulcin — Glucin. 

Chapter XLVII. Eggs - - - - 275 

Eggs as Aerating Agents — Chemical Composition of Eggs — Proportions of Parts of 
Eggs — To Detect Age of Eggs — White of Egg — Action of Fats and Sugar on Egg 
Whites — Weak Eggs — Yolk of Egg — Methods of Preserving Eggs — Water Glass — 
Dried Eggs — Composition of Dried Eggs — Eggs Preserved in Syrup — To Keep Eggs 
Left Over. 

Chapter XL VIII. Egg Substitutes - - 281 

Egg Powders — Commercial Albumen — Gelatin — Casein — Separated Gluten. 

Chapter XLIX. Flavouring Substances: Spices and Seeds - - 283 

Spices: Classification of Flavouring Agents — Adulteration of Spices — Ginger — Ex- 
hausted Ginger — Ginger Starch — Cinnamon — Cassia — Cloves — Adulteration of 
Ground Cloves — Pimento — Nutmeg and Mace — Adulteration of Mace. 

Arom.\tic Seeds : Aniseed — Coriander Seed — Caraway Seed — Fennel. 

Chapter L. Essences and Essential Oils 287 

Essences and Oils — Essential Oils —Adulteration of Essential Oils — Oil of Lemon — 
Flavouring Agent in Lemon — Essence of Lemon — Oil of Orange — Lemon-grass Oil — 
Citronella Oil — Oil of Peppermint — Essence of Peppermint — Flower Essences — 
Essential Oils from Spices — Oil of Bitter Almonds — Prussic Acid in Almonds — 
Artificial Oil of Almonds — Dangerous Substitute for Oil of Almonds — Nitrobenzene 
— Ratafia and Kirsch — Vanilla Beans — Vanillin in Vanilla Beans — Artificial Produc- 
tion of Vanillin — Vanilla Extract — Tonka Beans — Artificial Coumarin — Use of 
Vanilla — Vanillons. 

Chapter LI. Liqueurs and Fruit Essences 294 

Liqueur Flavourings — Cura^oa — Maraschino— Benedictine — Chartreuse — Angostura 
— Creme de Menthe. 

Fruit Essences: Nature of Fruit Essences— Pineapple Essence — Pear Essence — 
Apple Essence — Composition of Fruit Essences — Real Fruit Flavours — Table for 
Compounding Fruit Essences — Butter Flavour. 



CONTENTS 



CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

Page 

Chapter LII. Fermented Buns 296 

The old Cook Confectioners — Old-time Biscuit Bakers — Place of the Pastry Cook — 
Public Taste Altered — Biscuit Bakers Crushed Out — Modern Flour Confectioner — 
Mixture of Trades — The Bun — Influence of Flour in Buns — Strong Flour Mellowed 
— Kansas and Australian Flour for Buns — Hungarian Flour for Rich Buns — Purpose 
of Ferment Stage — Use of Ferment in Bun-making — Straight-Dough Buns — Thin 
versus Thick Ferments — Proper Quantity of Flour in Ferment — Temperature for 
Ferments — Sugar in Ferment — Sugar not a Yeast-producer — Aerating Bun Ferment 
— Eggs in Ferment — Effects of Excessive Fat — Mixing Fat or Melting — Cause of Fat 
affecting Fermentation — Effects of Oil or Fat on Yeast — Effects of Excessive Sugar — 
General Basis for Buns — Eggs not Necessary — Flavour of Buns — Salt in Buns — Plain 
Buns — Bun Washes — Sugar Wash. 

Currant Buns: Making the Ferment — Making Dough and Proving — Baking Tem- 
perature for Buns — Prepared Egg Wash — Syrup for Egg Wash — Method of Flipping 
when in Proof — Rich Penny Bun — Royal Currant Bun — Clarified Butter in Buns. 

Mince Buns. 

Lemon Tea Buns : Lemon-shaped Buns. 

Swiss Buns : Water Icing for Buns. 

Bath Buns : Cheap Bath or London Buns — Fermented Bath Buns — Rich Restaurant 
Bun — Method of Mixing Bath Buns — Imperial Bath Bun — Cause of Bath Buns 
Hardening. 

Jam Buns : Blocks for Biins — Baking Jam Buns. 

Hot Cross Buns. 

Chelsea Buns : Method of Adding Butter, &c. — Baking Chelseas. 

Dough Nuts: Ring Dough Nuts— Test for Heat of Fat — Burnt Fat— American 
Crullers. 



LIST OF PLATES 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. II 



Page 

A Confectioner's Artistic Tea Room (Colmired) - - - Frontispiece 

Types of British Small Bread 162 

Types of Scotch and Fancy Bread (Coloured) - - - - 168 

Harvest Festival Loaves - - - 172 

Milk Bread 174 

Toast and Milk Bread - - - 176 

Former Presidents, National Association of Master Bakers - 184 

Thomas Fletcher. Alfred Taylor. 

Robert Kirkland. Henry Matthews. 

British Vienna Rolls (Coloured) 192 

Vienna Fancy Bread— I - - - 200 

Do. do. —II - 204 

Do. do. —Ill ' - - - 208 

Do. do. —IV 212 

Do. do. —V 214 

French and Dutch Bread 218 

Types of Dutch Bread 220 

Representatives of the Glasgow Baking Trade - - - 242 

Sir William Bilsland, Bart. John Stevenson, 

James Macfarlane. William Beattie. 

Leaders in the Educational Movement of the Allied Trades 264 

Alexanher G. Wylie. Adam L. Johnston. 

Charles H. Paul. James D. Graham. 

Spice Plants (Coloured) - 286 

Fermented Buns 304 

xi 



BRITISH SMALL BREADS 153 

CHAPTER XXV 

BEITISH SMALL BREADS: HOT-PLATE GOODS 

In all parts of the kingdom there are certain kinds of small bread which 

find special favour. These are not so essentially different in the materials 

from which thev are made as in the shape and condition ^ ,.,,.«. 

. 1 1 T-i T 1 n- English Muffins, 

or the crust. Among such small goods the English 7)iujjin 

may be first noticed. At one time these were sold by nearly every baker 
who professed to make small goods, especially in the winter months, but 
the art of manufacture has now been almost lost to the general trade, and 
has been specialized, so that muffin-baking has become a distinct trade, the 
ordinary baker buying daily supplies on wholesale terms. Muffins are 
essentially old-fashioned fare, and custom has now so much changed that 
they are not regarded as essentials on the tea tables of the present genera- 
tion. This change of custom is responsible for the change in the trade. 
The ordinary baker sells so few that it is not worth his while to keep a 
hot plate for their manufacture. In provincial centres, and especially in 
country towns, the trade is still to a great extent in the hands of the 
ordinary baker, and considerable difficulty is frequently experienced in 
making them of the required lightness and the proper degree of holeyness. 

The following recipe and instructions will be found easy and safe. 
Weigh down 3 lb. of moderately soft flour and sift through it ^ oz. of 
bicarbonate of soda. Mix IJ oz. yeast with 1 qt. of water at Recipe for 
105'' F., and mix the flour into a tough batter and stand in a Muffins, 
warm place for an hour or until the batter has risen and dropped; f oz. 
of salt powdered is then stirred in until the batter is again toughened, 
and it is allowed to lie for 15 to 20 minutes more. Meanwhile f oz. 
of cream of tartar is dissolved in about a gill of milk and gently mixed 
in the batter. It is then ready for dropping on the hot plate. The bad 
results so frequently obtained are generally due to the method of cooking. 
If the batter is in the least degree too stiff" the muffins are certain to be 
" blind ". The same result follows if the flour is too strong, especially in 
the case when the flour is stronger than that with which one is familiar. 
It is better always to try one muffin first before filling the hot plate. Then 
if that fails to hole properly add a little more water or milk, or if it is too 
thin and has no substance, but runs out under the rings, a little flour may 
be added, but it is better if possible to avoid these additions after the 
batter is ready. The hot plate should be very hot and thoroughly well 
cleaned but not greased. The rings should be greased and placed in 
position on the plate and the same quantity of batter dropped in each with 
a small mould or ladle. As soon as the exposed part is covered with holes 
the rings are lifted off*, and with a palette knife the muffins are turned and 
baked on the holey side. They should be golden-brown on the side first 
towards the plate, but only browned enough on the holey side to remove 

f Vol. I. 20 

f 



154 



SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 



the sickly appearance they have when quite white. When done they 
should be light but tough, and although sufficiently cooked it is not 
intended that they should be eaten without previous toasting. In a good 
many districts picklets is the name given to what are called mujjins in 
others. 

There are now a good many types of hot plates on the market as 
compared with ten or twelve years ago. The old hot hearth was a thick 
Coke Hot ""o^^ plate, under which there was a long coke fire that required 
Hearth. a good deal of care if the plate was to be kept evenly heated 
over its entire surface: and whatever care was exercised there were sure 




Fig. 11.— Coke Hot Plate 

to be differences of heat at any one baking, whilst the plate was always 
liable to become cool unexpectedly unless the fire was carefully watched. 
There are still a good many of these old-style plates in use, but a modified 
form has recently been patented by Mr. Smith of Edinburgh, in which the 
coke fire can be regulated at diflferent parts of the plate by means of 
dampers (fig. 11). This plate is said to give excellent results with a com- 
paratively small quantity of fuel; but where the quantity of hot-plate 
goods to be baked is small the ordinary gas hot plate (fig. 12) is much more 
convenient. This has a thin plate, and the heat is supplied as wanted by 
Gas Hot several rows of atmospheric burners placed a little distance under- 
Plates. neath. The advantages of the gas hot plate are, that it requires 
to be heated only a few minutes before it is required, and by means of 
one tap the amount of heat can be accurately regulated, whilst so long as 
the burners are clear the heat over the plate is comparatively uniform. 



BRITISH SMALL BREADS 155 

The cost for heat is slightly greater than when a coke fire is used, but the 
cleanness and convenience more than compensate for this extra cost. The 




Fig. 12.— Gas Hot Plate 



most modern expedient for heating a large hot plate is by means of a series 
of sealed steam pipes (fig. 13), somewhat similar to those used in the steam- 




Fig. 13.— steam Hot Plate 



pipe oven. There is a very essential difference, however. In oven pipes 
the internal pressure can only be assumed from the heat regis- steam -pipe 
tered by the thermometer, but in the case of hot-plate pipes Plates, 
they are connected with an ordinary pressure gauge which shows the 



156 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

pressure of the contained steam, and which rings an alarm as soon as the 
danger point is reached. The good points about plates heated by this 
method are — that they cost little for fuel, are of almost uniform tempera- 
ture all over, can be easily regulated, and are capable of baking con- 
tinuously even when a large quantity of hot-plate goods is required. 

Muffins are usually associated in the public mind with crumpets, which 
are also hot-plate goods, but are different in almost every respect from the 
English muffins described above. Crumpets are thick, extremely light. 
Crumpets, fermented dough cakes that are not holey nor tough, and which 
can be eaten cold or hot as desired. For these cakes the following method 
may be used. Weigh 5 lb. moderately strong white flour. Make this 
into a very soft dough with 2 pt. water and 1 pt. milk, the temperature of 
both being 104° F.; 1 oz. salt, |- oz. sugar, and 2 oz. yeast. The dough 
should be made as tough as possible by much mixing on the table, and then 
placed in a warm place to prove for one hour. At the end of that period 
it is again kneaded thoroughly, the hands being kept free from the^ soft 
dough by dipping them from time to time in a little warm water. This 
dough is allowed to lie for another hour, and then divided into pieces about 
2 1 oz. each for single crumpets. The softness of the dough makes scaling 
of these pieces extremely awkward; so the usual method is to squeeze the 
dough through a ring made by the thumb and forefinger of one hand. This 
has the effect of producing a kind of round ball of dough, which is broken 
off when large enough by the other hand, and dropped on to a proving 
board very thickly covered with flour or cones. When this board is full 
it is best to cover it with a similar board, and the latter with a cloth, 
and put them in a warm place for about thirty minutes. In cold weather 
the proving board or drawer should itself be heated before the crumpets 
are placed on it. The pieces will spread slightly, but will still show a more 
or less rounded appearance when quite proved. They are baked on a plate 
only moderately warm, the side that was uppermost on the board being 
placed downward on the plate. When done on one side they are turned 
over on to the other. This expedient has the effect of making both sides 
of the crumpet about the same width when baked. It is not usual to bake 
these in rings, although this is sometimes done; and when that is the case, 
the rings are removed just after turning. The difficulty in baking these 
is the danger of their being underbaked in the centres, a condition likely 
to be produced if the plate is in the least degree too hot. When finished 
they should be about 3 in. in diameter and about 2 in. thick. They are 
sufficiently baked when an indent made g3ntly with the finger on the soft 
part of the side springs back and leaves no mark. It is possible to make 
crumpets with stift'er dough than here suggested, in that case scaling the 
pieces and rolling in the usual way as for buns; but it will be found that 
when made in that way, while light enough, they are not so light as those 
made from the soft toughened dough just described, nor is the texture 
so open and flaky as in the latter, a condition considered characteristic of 
cakes of this sort. 



BRITISH SMALL BREADS 157 

Although hardly belonging to the bread section, it may be useful to 
describe here the method of making Scotch pancakes, which, though 
sweet and of richer colour, are not unlike English muffins in scotch 
size and shape; and also to describe a method for what are called Pancakes, 
crumpets in Scotland, although these have nothing in common with English 
crumpets except the name, but are an imitation of English pancakes as 
made in kitchens on Shrove Tuesday. Scotch pancakes and crumpets are 
hot-plate goods. In poor neighbourhoods, or where the size sold for a 
halfpenny must be large, the mixture used is necessarily cheap, although, 
when fresh, the pancakes are not bad to eat. For a very cheap mixture 
the following method may be used. Into 4 lb. soft flour sift 1 oz. soda and 
1| oz. cream of tartar, and beat into a batter with 2h pt. of buttermilk 
in which 1 lb. of soft sugar has been dissolved. Drop at once either from 
a small cup or a spoon on to the hot plate, previously well greased and 
moderately hot. While soft on the plate a few currants can be sprinkled 
on the top of each. As soon as the sides next the plate are coloured 
the cakes are turned over. When finished they should be about 4 in. in 
diameter and h in. thick, and both sides as nearly as possible the same 
breadth. Care has to be exercised to turn the cakes at the right time: if 
they are turned too soon they become much thicker in the centre than at the 
sides, and the centre is not sufficientljT^ baked, whilst if they are not turned 
soon enough the top is much narrower than the bottom and they are 
spoiled in appearance. In good neighbourhoods a much better mixture 
is desirable, and may be as follows. Weigh 5 lb. soft flour — Hungarian 
if available — and sift into it 1|^ oz. bicarbonate of soda and 3 oz. cream of 
tartar, 12 oz. lard, 1| lb. sugar, and 6 eggs. This will require 2f to 3 pt. 
either sweet or butter milk, but the exact quantity depends on the strength 
of the flour. To obtain the best results the mixing should not be done in 
the ordinary scone-making way, but the lard should be first melted; the 
milk, eggs, and sugar are then well mixed together, and the prepared flour 
beat into this liquid to produce a tough batter. The melted fat is then 
gently but smoothly mixed with the batter, and the mixing is ready for 
dropping on the plate, which should be moderately hot and well greased. 
One advantage of mixing the fat last in the melted state is that the batter 
becomes a little firmer as it stands, while this method also seems to pro- 
duce a shorter and freer-eating pancake than if the fat had been rubbed 
into the flour in the usual way. Some skill is needed in dropping them on 
the plate so as to ensure perfect roundness. If a spoon is used it should 
be held comparatively high above the plate, and as the mixture is forced 
out by the finger, it is really thrown on to the plate with a force sufficient 
to spread it a little. A simpler expedient to ensure roundness is to drop 
the pancakes from an ordinary savoy bag. The same rules as to turning 
and baking apply to the richer sort as to the cheaper described above, 
but greater care is required in dealing with the former. The usual size 
is about 3 in. diameter and h inch thick, the price being a halfpenny, 
but these make an excellent selling line for afternoon tea if made smaller 



158 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

and sold at three for a penny. They eat short and nice, not unlike a 
sponge or a piece of Genoa cake, but less rich. The addition of flavouring 
essences is optional, but they are satisfactory without, and much better in 
that state than made nauseous with an overdose of lemon or vanilla. 

For the thin Scotch crumpets the quantities are 5. lb. strong flour, 
through which 1| oz. bicarbonate of soda and 3 oz. cream of tartar have 
Scotch been twice sifted; 2i lb. sugar, 1 lb. lard, 8 eggs, and 5 to 

Crumpets. 5| Y>t. milk. These are best made in the same way as pan- 
cakes, by mixing the eggs, half the milk, and all the sugar together, and 
first beating in all the flour. The fat is then added in a melted state, and 
then the remainder of the milk. The plate should be hotter than for 
pancakes, and must be well greased before each filling. As it is essential 
that the crumpets should be thin and holey and flexible when baked, it is 
as well to try one on the plate before starting the lot. A small ladle or cup 
is a suitable thing for dropping them. The soft upper surface should be 
quite covered with holes before they are turned over, and the colour is 
generally a good enough indication of sufficient baking. When done they 
should be about ^ in. thick and about 5 in. in diameter. They should be 
pliable enough to roll without cracking, and this result is best obtained 
when a tough strong flour is used. On Shrove Tuesday there is a good 
shop sale for these goods if dusted with sugar on which a little juice of 
lemon has been sprinkled. In Yorkshire and the Midlands of England 
small hot-plate cakes are made from a mixture consisting of 4 lb. flour, 
through which 1 oz. bicarbonate of soda and 2 oz. cream of tartar have been 
sifted. Into this 1 lb. of butter, or half butter and half lard, is rubbed, 
and a bay made. Into the bay 12 oz. sugar is weighed, and 12 oz. 
cleaned currants placed round the outside. Dough is made with 6 eggs and 
li pt. milk. This makes a free soft dough, which, after standing a few 
minutes to lose its toughness, is rolled out about ^ in. thick and cut out 
with a cutter 3 in. in diameter. These are baked on the hot plate and 
turned when half done. 

Scotch girdle scones are conveniently baked on a hot plate. These are 
usually quite plain, but to make them satisfactorily requires some care. 
Into 8 lb. of very soft white flour 2 oz. of bicarbonate of 
soda and 4 oz. of cream of tartar are thoroughly sifted; 
some bakers also sift 1| oz. of salt through the flour. Dough is made with 
about 3| pt. of buttermilk either on the table or in a basin. Mixing, 
while being sufficient, should not be excessive, to cause the dough to become 
tough, and to this end it is a practice in some bakeries to mix the dough 
lightly with a stick in a basin, then to turn it out on a dusted board and 
knead very lightly. To obtain light scones it is necessary to have the 
dough as soft as it can be to handle. The size of the scones is determined 
by the custom of the locality. In some places the usual size is that sold 
for a halfpenny, each scone, which is the quarter of a round, weighing 
about 3 oz. In the north of Ireland, where soda bread of this sort is in 
great demand, the penny size is more common, the weight in this case 



BRITISH SMALL BREADS 159 

being from 8 to 10 oz. The plate must not be over hot or there is much 
difficulty in baking the scones in the centre, as they are usually made 1 in. 
or li in. thick. It does not require to be greased. When baked on one 
side the scone is turned over gently and baked on the other side. The 
most convenient tool for readily turning the scones is a small piece of 
stick well sharpened at one end. If the flour available is rather strong and 
seems to produce tough scones, 1 oz. of lard to each pound of flour may be 
rubbed in, and this softens and shortens them to some extent, but it is 
better to secure very soft flour, and to depend on this and on light mixing 
to ensure that the scones will have the softness so much desired. 

Under the name of sweet milk scones there is another variety made 
which some customers prefer. For these weigh down 8 lb. soft flour and 
sift twice through it 2 oz. bicarbonate of soda and 4 oz. cream sweet Milk 
of tartar; into this rub 12 oz. of lard. Dough is made much Scones. 
stiflTer than for ordinary scones; so only about 3^ pt. of milk is required 
for this quantity, but 12 oz. of sugar and 1 oz. of salt are previously 
dissolved in it. Ordinary buttermilk may be used, and gives quite as 
good results as fresh milk. These scones are usually weighed at 8 oz. 
for four, and are sometimes sold in large flat rounds not more than | in. 
thick, or they may be cut into four in the usual way before baking. 
For these, on account of the sugar they contain, the plate must be only 
moderately hot; else they bake too dark in colour. In pinning out the 
rounds, the best plan is to pin each first only half the width it is desired, 
then, after it has lain a little, pin it out to the full size, which should be 
about 8 in. diameter, and then cut into four in the ordinary way, piling 
the scones on top of each other in fours until enough are 
done to fill the hot plate. A form of this kind of scone 
which at one time was common in Scotland, but made in private families 
rather than by bakers, contained the same quantity of aerating chemicals 
but no fat or sugar. In place of the latter 1^ oz. of golden syrup was 
used to each pound of flour. These are made in flat rounds about | in. 
thick, and are cut after being baked. 

The trade in curled oatcakes has now become much more an aflfair 
for the baker than formerly, when every Scottish housewife prided 
herself on the excellence of her oaten bread. Now a great Curled 
deal is made in the large bakeries and biscuit factories, but Oatcakes, 
there is nothing to prevent the small baker with a family connection 
holding this trade as his own. Oatcakes are best made from medium 
cut meal. For a small mixing use 3| lb. of oatmeal free from bitterness, 
and thoroughly mix | lb. strong flour with it. Rub into this 2 oz. lard. 
Make a bay, and weigh into it 1 oz. of salt, and use warm water to make 
dough in which has been dissolved in the bay about | oz. of bicarbonate 
of soda— no cream of tartar. Make dough rather soft at first, as it will 
stiffen very much while lying to be made up. Scale off" into pieces about 
6 oz. each and mould round, then pin out smoothly until about | in. thick 
and about 8 in. in diameter. This is not quite easy for anyone not familiar 



160 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

with the work, owing to the edges breaking and the dough at the begin- 
ning being sticky. The edges must be kept as even as possible by pinch- 
ing with the thumb and forefinger, and the dough kept from sticking 
by rubbing over on the top and underneath with a little dry meal. When 
enough are ready to fill the plate, they are neatly placed on it and 
baked on one side till nearly done, then turned over. Before they are 
sufficiently baked on the second side they will begin to curl slightly, and 
when this is the case they must be removed from the plate, or there is 
danger of producing a burned ridge along the back of each. Above hot 
plates specially adapted for oatcake work there is a rack fixed on which 
the oatcakes partially baked are placed, with the least-baked side towards 
the plate; in this position they are dried and more or less toasted by the 
heat radiated from the plate, and the process of curling is there completed. 
In the absence of such an arrangement it is sufficient to take the oatcakes 
from the plate, place them on a clean baking sheet, and dry them for a 
few minutes in an ordinary oven. Here, again, care has to be taken that 
they are not burned. The addition of a little flour to the mixture is only 
a baker's expedient to make them easier to handle; it is not used in home 
baking. The pinch of soda is to remove objectionable flintiness. The fat 
is for the same purpose, but some prefer oatcakes without any fat. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

BEITISH SMALL BREADS: OVEN GOODS 

Very nice soda bread can be made without the use of a hot plate by 
baking either on baking sheets or on the oven bottom. For this purpose 
Oven-baked ^^^ mixture given first for plain scones is most suitable. The 
Soda Bread, scones, weighing 2 lb. for four, are pinned out about f in. 
thick, and then cut into four and glazed over with an egg wash consisting 
of half egg and half milk. After lying a little they are stabbed over in 
the centre with a skewer to prevent blisters, and baked on flat tins or in 
rows on the oven bottom. When properly set they are turned over, those 
on the oven bottom with a thin small bread peel, those on tins by drawing 
the tins to the mouth of the oven and turning the scones over one at a time. 
The only difficulty in dealing with goods of this sort is in watching the 
proper time to turn them. If this is done too soon the scones may be thin 
and close; if it is delayed too long the top is already set, and when turned 
the glazed portion only touches the hot tin at one or two points, and its 
appearance is spoiled; while neglect in this matter usually results in large 
Irish hollow places under the skin. When properly made, this sort of 

Soda Farl. goda bread, called in the north of Ireland soda farl, looks very 
bright, and sells well. It is about 1| in. thick, and it eats freer than that 
baked on the hot plate, although that is the usual manner of baking. 



BKiTISH SMALL BREADS 



161 



Every district has its peculiar kinds of morning or breakfast rolls. In 
England generally, and particularly in London, this is either a flat round 
cake or a small long roll made in batches on flat tins. The Morning 
common practice is to make these from a piece of ordinary bread Rolls, 
dough, but it is better, if any considerable quantity is required, to make 
a special dough for themselves. As 
they are wanted early it is not 
always possible to make a straight 
dough for them in the morning, 
unless in cases where the men start 
very early or work during the night. 
If it is possible to allow three hours 
before the rolls are wanted the fol- 
lowing quantities may be used. For 
20 lb. medium strong flour use 6 oz. 
yeast, 4 oz. salt, 3 oz. sugar, and 
6 oz. lard or other tasteless fat. 
Make dough in the ordinary way 
with about 9 pt. of water at 104° F. 
This dough, kept in a warm place 
covered up for 1| hour, should after 
a good kneading be ready for scal- 
ing into the sizes desired. Where 
there is any quantity made it pays 
to have a small dough - dividing 
machine (flg. 14), which cuts out 
30 pieces at once from a weighed 
portion of dough. If small batched 
rolls are wanted these are simply 
moulded long and placed close to- 
gether on a baking sheet with deep 
edges, or one with small wood upsets 
round the sides. The sheet and sides 
should be slightly greased, and the 
rolls when tilled should be washed 
over with a little milk, and again 

when ready for the oven. These rolls will take quite half an hour to 
prove. If round bread cakes are made they are moulded coffee- 
round, pinned out to a little less than the width they are house Rolls, 
ultimately to be— because they spread a little — and washed over with 
milk or water. When sufficiently proved, and just before placing in 
the oven, they should be stabbed once or twice in the centre with a 
skewer, or indenting once in the centre with the finger will serve to 
prevent the blisters which are apt to form under the upper crust. A 
favourite shape of roll for which this dough is very suitable is that— 
generally about 3 oz. in weight— baked in a long round pan but open 




Fig. 14.— Dough-dividing Machine 



162 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

at the top. These rolls are occasionally baked with a very hard crust, 
which is afterwards rasped off, the name rasped roll being 
in that case used. The same dough is very suitable for 
making the large flat loaves called in Yorkshire bread or hatch cakes; 
only if to be used for this purpose it would require to stand in dough 
a half-hour at least longer than the time stated above, as these loaves 
present a drawn and unshapely appearance if the dough is in the least 
degree unripe when made up. 

In cases where it is not possible to wait so long, speed of working can 
easily be obtained by simply increasing the quantity of yeast. No bad 
Sponge for ©ffects will follow, except of course the increase in cost. Good 
Rolls. results are obtained, however, by making small bread from an 

overnight sponge, keeping that large in proportion to the total quantity 
of dough. For the same quantity of flour as that given above, the sponge 
would consist of 10 lb. flour, 1| oz. yeast, 1 oz. salt, 1 oz. sugar, and 3 qt. 
water at such a temperature as will make sponge 76° F. This sponge will 
be a very soft dough, and it should be well toughened by kneading. The 
most suitable vessel in which to keep this sponge is a small tub, which 
should be scalded, and, while wet, thickly dusted with cones. This sponge 
may stand seven hours; or, if nine hours is a more convenient period, 
then 1 oz. of yeast should be sufficient. It will rise and fall twice in 
that time, and in the morning should require very little breaking down. 
Dough would consist of 10 lb. flour, into which 6 oz. lard had been rubbed, 
3 oz. sugar, and 3 oz. salt, and 3 pt. water. This dough, given a rest for 
three-quarters of an hour, will be ready then for scaling and working up 
in any way desired. 

Some sorts of small fermented goods are made from stifler dough than 
the above. Of this sort are the small biscuit-like cakes cut out with a 
Nursery cutter, docked in the centre, proved, washed over with milk, and 
Biscuits, baked, and sold as nursery biscuits. These may be stiffened by 
adding flour, and 1 oz. more sugar for each pound of dough and flour used, 
or a special dough may be made as follows. Into 10 lb. of flour rub 12 oz. 
of lard or butter. Make dough with 1 qt. milk, 1 qt. water, 12 oz. sugar, 
2 oz. salt, and 8 oz. yeast. This dough should stand altogether two hours, 
and should then be well kneaded. As soon as the spring leaves it after 
kneading, it should be pinned out to about \ in. thick, then docked at 
regular intervals with a small docker about 1^ in. in diameter, then cut 
with a plain cutter about 2| in. diameter, each biscuit having the docker 
mark as nearly as possible in its centre. They should be neatly placed 
on clean baking sheets, washed over with milk, and allowed to prove in 
a dry heat for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, then baked in a warm 
oven. These biscuits or cakes should be stabbed once in the centre with 
a skewer just before placing in the oven. 

There is not now the same demand for dinner rolls as at one time 
existed, their place being taken for the most part by Vienna rolls; but 
where it is not possible owing to the lack of suitable appliances to make 




IRISH BAPS 




ENGLISH TEACAKES 




SCOTCH BAPS AND MORNING ROLLS 

TYPES OF BRITISH SMALL BREAD 



BRITISH SMALL BREADS 163 

the latter, it is better to keep to the old-fashioned dinner roll than to 
make unsatisfactory imitations of Vienna rolls. For dinner rolls weigh 
8 lb. flour, and rub into it 8 oz. lard. Make dough with 3^ oid-styie 
pt. water at 100° F., or, if a good price can be obtained, Dinner Rolls, 
use half milk and half water, 3 oz. yeast, 1| oz. salt, and 1 oz, sugar. 
Make the dough very smooth by thorough mixing. Knead at the end 
of an hour, then allow it to lie for another hour, when it should be 
ready for scaling. These are made in several more or less plain shapes: 
in some cases merely rolled round like buns, sometinies oval, and some- 
times round with a deep cut across the top. These forms all have crusts 
inclined to be tough. Much the best plan is to bake the rolls, weighing 
about 1| oz. each, in old-fashioned dinner- roll pans, like dariole moulds, 
about 2 1 in. high, and narrower at the bottom than at the top. The rolls 
sliould be proved till they just reach the top of the pan, and then baked. 
The usual practice is to rasp the tops of the rolls. The crust is crisp and 
sweet, and the crumb is fine and seems almost to dissolve in the mouth. 

The Scotch breakfast roll or hap (Plate, Types of British Small 
Bread) is a good selling article even out of Scotland. These rolls are 
generally made by the sponge - and - dough system, the scotch Breakfast 
sponge standing about twelve hours to suit the require- Ro^ or Bap. 
ments of Scottish labour conditions. With compressed yeast such a sponge 
would consist of 30 lb. flour, 3 oz. yeast, 4 oz. salt, 2 oz. sugar, and 2 gal. 
water at 86° F. These would be well stirred in a tub and scraped down 
at the sides, and thickly dusted over with flour on top. In the morning 
this will have risen in the tub and dropped 3 or 4 in. Dough is made with 
30 lb. flour, 8 oz. lard, 6 oz. salt, 6 oz. sugar, and 5 qt. water at 100° F. 
The dough is well toughened by mixing, and then allowed to lie about 
half an hour to recover, when it should be ready for scaling. If the rolls 
are to be of the smooth-topped sort (Plate, Types of British Small Bread) 
they are first moulded oval, then gently pinned out till they are about 
3 in. long and 2 in. wide. They are then placed close together in rows 
on the table and well watered on top, after which they are transferred 
to heated boards thickly dusted with cones. They are allowed to prove 
for about thirty minutes, and are then transferred to the oven, each roll 
being lifted from its board to a thin long peel used for the purpose by 
means of a flat tin lifter. They must be baked in a very hot oven; other- 
wise they have a tough skin and take no colour. Rolls and baps are 
sometimes made white, and either oval or three-cornered (Plate, Types of 
British Small Bread). In the latter case they are moulded in pieces 
weighing 9 oz., pinned out to about 8 in. in diameter, and then cut into 
three. This sort is not washed over with water, but simply placed on the 
heated boards when cut and then dusted over with flour, and asfain dusted 
just before being placed in the oven. This dusting causes the baps to be 
quite white but yet not sickly-looking when baked. To prevent blisters, 
the finger is pressed into the centre of each bap before setting in the oven. 

Irish baps (Plate, Types of British Small Bread) are made from 



164 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

dougli somewhat similar to the above, but are handled differently on the 
board. They are made round in the smaller sizes, but the larger 
sorts, weighing from 8 oz. to 1 lb., are made of diamond shape. 
This form is obtained by first moulding the bap in a sort of torpedo shape, 
thick in the middle and pointed at the ends. By pressing the two ends 
towards the centre with the thumb and fingers of each hand the thickness 
of the centre is exaggerated; then it is pinned out until it is about J in. 
thick and more or less diamond-shaped. It is then turned over and proved 
on its top on a board thickly dusted with flour. The baps are proved rather 
close together, but are prevented from sticking by being well dusted over. 
When sufficiently proved they are turned over on to the left hand by a 
deft movement of the right hand, which catches the bap on the side with 
the side of the thumb; and wdien it is slightly lifted up by this means the 
hand is smartly turned underneath it, and it is turned over on to the left 
hand and transferred to the peel. 

When baked these baps are about 2 in. thick, and are light and pleasant 
to eat. Baps or rolls of the Scotch type can be equally well made on a short 
Short Process straight - dougli system. Weigh 10 lb. flour and rub into 
for Baps. it 6 oz. lard. Make dough with 2 J qt. half milk and half 

water, 3 oz. sugar, 2 oz. salt, and 5 oz. yeast. This dough will be moderately 
soft, and should be toughened by mixing. After lying one hour it is well 
kneaded, and then allowed to rest about half an hour more. It is then 
scaled to the sizes wanted and moulded. If it is impossible or inconvenient 
to bake these rolls on the oven bottom they may be proved and baked on 
baking sheets, cleaned, and then dusted with cones. Made on the short pro- 
cess just given, they will require to prove — not in steam, however — for about 
an hour and a quarter. They should be baked till the skin just feels hard, 
but it will become very soft as soon as they cool slightly. Very small sizes, 
not much larger than an egg, may be made for use as plain sandwiches, 
Sandwich ^^^, ^s they are very soft, they taste very nice made up in this 
Baps. way. The sort dusted on top are more suitable for the purpose 

just mentioned than those that are washed over, as the skins of the latter 
incline to be tough. 

On the border line between bread and buns there is a fermented scone 
called a teacake. This is more common in Yorkshire than elsewhere in 
Yorkshire England, but similar things are made nearly everywhere. For 
Teacakes. Yorkshire teacake (See plate, British Small Bread) weigh 
5 lb. moderately strong flour, and rub into it 8 oz. lard. Make a ferment 
with 1^ pt. milk and 1 pt. water, both together at 100° F., 3 oz. sugar, 
8 oz. flour, and 4 oz. yeast. Whisk these ingredients together, and let the 
ferment stand in a warm place until it drops. This will take about three- 
quarters of an hour. There is enough liquor here to make dough, but 
1 oz. salt and 4 oz. sugar are added at this stage, as well as 1 lb. of 
thoroughly cleaned currants. The dough is allowed to stand covered up 
in a warm place for one hour, when it is ready for scaling. The pieces 
are weighed about 4 oz. each and pinned out about 5 in. in diameter, 



BRITISH FANCY BREADS 165 

and proved on slightly greased baking sheets. They are washed over 
with milk, or with a mixture of milk and egg, when first placed on the 
baking sheet; then just before baking they are stabbed with a skewer 
to prevent blisters. They should be baked in a rather warm oven. The 
Scotch method of preparing teacakes differs from the above only in the 
method of baking. The mixture may be the same, and the scotch 
dough is made with a ferment as above, but after the tea- Teacakes. 
cakes are pinned out and placed on the tin they are washed over with 
an e^g glaze consisting of about half egg and half milk. When properly 
proved they are placed in the oven, but as soon as they are set sufficiently 
to handle without spoiling they are turned over on their tops. It is 
not necessary to stab these, but one must be careful to turn them at 
the right time. If they stand over long before turning their tops become 
too much set, resulting either in the top being very narrow when baked 
or in the formation of a large blister. If they are turned too soon, the 
result is that they are thin and close and probably tough. Teacakes made 
in this way look very showy and sell well. Very small ones, weighing 
about 1 oz. each, but prepared in the same way, also sell well. 

Bakers who serve hotels and high-class restaurants are frequently asked 
to supply pulled bread. This consists simply of new bread, the crumb of 
which has been pulled in pieces about 2 in. long, IJ in. broad, p „ , „ 
and about J in. thick. These are placed on a baking-sheet, 
and nicely browned and dried in the oven until they are quite crisp. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

BRITISH SPECIAL AND FANCY BREADS 

The greatest diversity of opinion prevails amongst bakers as to what is 
fancy bread. The rough interpretation of the term as recognized by the 
Bread Laws is: Bread that cannot readily be mistaken for Definitions of 
plain bread. The distinguishing mark in this case is some Fancy Bread, 
difference in shape or in glaze; but the baker in a technical sense gives the 
term fancy bread a much wider meaning, and makes it include all sorts 
which involve more labour in manufacture, or entail greater cost for 
materials. In this matter, however, there is a verj^ marked diflference in 
the method adopted in different districts in fixing the position of any new 
sort of loaf by bakers. In Scotland, and to some extent in Ireland, there is 
one sort of bread universally recognized as plain: all other sorts whatever 
are classed as fancy. In England there is no well-marked division between 
plain and fancy, the result being that the fancy bread of one day becomes 
the plain bread of the next: and as the law requires that all plain bread 
must be sold by weiglit, whilst fancy bread is exempt, it becomes much to 
the interest of the English baker to make as few varieties of the former as 



166 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

possible, while in the case of the Scotch and Irish bakers each new creation 
Effects of Loose "^ ^^® ^'^^ ^^ '^ variety may be a source of fresh trade and 
Definition in pi'ofit, because its weight may be reduced below the usual 

Eng an . ^^ ^^^ amount sufficient to compensate for extra labour 

or materials, or in part payment of the ingenuity used in its production. 
On this account the variety of bread is generally greater in Scotland and 
Ireland than in England. 

Bread does not lend itself to great variations either of shape or com- 
position, nor is it a suitable medium for making up with other materials 
Compounded used as food. Compounded breads are more or less in the 
Breads. nature of fads, and never find much favour with the public, 

who are, after all, the arbiters in such matters. In making additions to 
bread there are several cardinal points which must be observed. The 
colour should not, by additions, be made brownish or gray, or in the least 
approach what is regarded as dirty; the taste of those added substances 
must not be so pronounced as to destroy and mask the taste of the bread 
proper; the added substances must be only such as have a mild flavour that 
Allowable ^^^' blend with the recognized nutty flavour of bread; nothing 
Additions must be uscd which will destroy the texture and vesicularity of 
to Bread, ^j^^ bread. Conforming to these conditions, we have milk, butter, 
lard, oil, malt flour, malt extract. Of these, milk is the most popular, and, 
all things considered, probably the most valuable. As the value of milk 
Effects of ^^ bread is due to the butter it contains, it follows that im- 
Added Milk provements due to milk and to added butter have much in 
or utter. common, only that when butter is used it must be mild in 
flavour, and the quantity must not be sufficient to make its taste decided 
in the bread. The effects of milk and butter are to improve the flavour, 
texture, colour, and physical properties of the crumb. Lard and tasteless 
oils affect only texture and shortness, whilst malt and preparations con- 
taining malt are only used to impart flavour to special breads. 

There is no rule or method followed in naming special and fancy breads, 
and in consequence the names are arbitrary and confusing, as the same sort 
Confusion of of loaf may be known by entirely different names in localities 
Bread Names, only a few miles apart. The names adopted for the following 
recipes are intended only as distinguishing marks, and not as signifying 
types of bread. In this respect it may be suggested that bakers do not 
make the best use of their opportunities in giving distinctive names to their 
special loaves, but content themselves with such common names as viilk 
loaf, curiunt loaf, &c., names in fact that are really the creation of the 
customers to express what they require rather than of the baker. 

The following recipe is for a loaf made in shape exactly like an ordinary 
household, but baked on a tin. Its special character depends wholly on its 
Windsor or quality. It is variously called a Windsor or a Castle loaf. It 
Castle Loaf, may be made on either the sponge or the straight-dough system 
as follows. Set a thin sponge with 10 lb. flour, 1 gallon of water at 100° F., 
or such temperature as will make sponge when finished about 82"" F., 7 oz. 



BRITISH FANCY BREADS 167 

yeast, and 2 oz. sugar. This sponge is best made in a small tub or wooden 
pail, and sliould not be stirred with the hand but beaten well with a stick 
or broad spatula. It should then be scraped from the side of the tub, the 
top thickly covered with flour, and the tub then covered with a sack and 
set in a warm place where it will not be disturbed. In about 45 minutes 
this sponge will have risen several inches and dropped. While it is ferment- 
ing weigh 40 lb. flour of high-class home millers' patent, or half home-milled 
and half Hungarian, and rub into this 1^ lb. lard, taking care to rub the 
latter till it is as tine as meal. Make a bay with the flour thus prepared, 
and weigh into it 4 cz. sugar and 9 oz. salt. Dissolve these in the water, 
of which If gallon at 100° F. will be required. Keep back half a gallon of 
this water to rinse out the sponge tub. Empty the sponge into the water 
in the bay and mix thoroughly, afterwards rinsing the tub as directed, 
using the rinsings as well to make dough. Toughen the dough by mixing 
and kneading until it is quite smooth. Pin it up close in the trough, and 
cover to keep warm. After it has lain about an hour and a half it should be 
well pinched and kneaded, and then in half an hour more it should be ready 
for scaling. If these loaves are to be sold at the same price as the ordinary 
2-lb. loaf, they should be weighed about 1 lb. 10 oz., and not more in any 

case than If lb. Loaves are handed up into boxes and o t .• n ■ 

* ^ Relative Prices 

allowed proof about half an hour. They are then moulded, of Fancy and 
each loaf in two halves, and one placed neatly on the top of ^^^^" Bread, 
the other, both closings downwards. After lying a minute or two to recover 
they are well pressed, bashed neatly in centre with the elbow, and placed 
evenly in an iron box close together, each row being greased with melted 
lard or tasteless oil. The box should be about 20 in. wide and 3| ft. long, 
and with sides all round about 5 in. deep. It should be iron Box for 
greased, not so much to prevent the loaves from sticking, Batch Bread, 
as to give them a short crisp crust when baked. The box should be slightly 
warmed before the loaves are placed in it. This size will hold thirty loaves, 
each being as nearly as possible 5 in. square. When all are in position 
their tops should be docked with a docker having teeth rather wide apart, 
and then washed over with milk. About twenty minutes' proof is allowed, 
and the loaves are then baked in an oven about 420° F. for one hour. 
When done they should be rubbed over on the top with lard while hot, and 
then turned out of boxes on their tops. W^hen separated these loaves have 
an extremely nice appearance, the crumb being white, with even texture 
and silky pile. They should not be more than about 4 in. high. They 
therefore cut an oblong slice with fine texture, and the bread eats short 
with good flavour. 

If it is more convenient to work with a straight dough, the following 
quantities may be used. With 50 lb. flour, half Hungarian and half first 
patent from English mill, or wholly the latter, use 8 oz. straight Dough 
compressed yeast, 5 oz. sugar, 9 oz. salt. As before, rub ^°^ Windsors. 
IJ lb. lard into flour, and make dough with 2f gallons water about 100° F. 
Mix the dough very thoroughly, and pinch and knead it until it becomes 



168 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

elastic and smooth. This dough will stand about three hours in trough, 
and should be kneaded well twice within that time. It is then scaled, 
handed up, and moulded in the same way as other dough. The straight- 
dough method does not produce quite such a clear-looking loaf as that made 
with sponge, and, when stale, it seems to be drier and shorter. In either 
case, however, if the loaves are allowed to prove too much in the boxes, they 
run into each other, and do not break with nice, smooth, bright sides. 

In parts of Ireland bread is baked in tins in this way, the dough, how- 
ever, being only ordinary sort. In Limerick this kind of loaf is called a 
Limerick cottage, being moulded exactly like an English cottage, the 

Cottage Bread. ^Qp being about half the weight of the bottom. These two 
parts are first moulded round in the ordinary way; then after proving a 
little separately they are rolled out long and topped, and placed in an 
iron box quite close together, but all in one row. For this sort of loaf 
the box is about 4|- ft. long and about 8 in. wide, with deep sides. When 
the tin is filled it is placed in a warm place, and the loaves are allowed to 
prove for 25 to 30 minutes, then baked in the usual way. These loaves 
look like fliat plates of bread about 7 in. broad, 5 in. high, and not more 
than 1| in. thick. In this case, as in the other, if they are given too much 
proof, they run into each other and do not break off flat and smooth. They 
are washed over on top before being set in the oven and with grease when 
they are drawn. 

In Scotland a t3'^pe of fancy loaf much more common thirty years ago 
than now is called a Jenny Lind, or shortly, a Lind (see Plate, Types of 
Jenny Lind ScoTCH AND Fancy Bread, No. 4). The source of the name 
Loaf. ^a^g obviously that of the great singer, but the reason for 

naming this particular kind of loaf after her is not so obvious. This loaf 
is round and flat, and consists of top and bottom about the same size rolled 
out with a rolling-pin, proved in hot air on baking sheets, and heavily 
glazed with egg before baking. The dough for these loaves is made much 
tighter than ordinary dough. The usual practice is to take part of the small 
bread sponge and mix in about 1 oz. of lard and | oz. of sugar for each 
loaf, then to stiflen up this sponge with flour to the required stifl'ness. This 
dough is, after lying a little, well braked or passed through biscuit rollers 
until it acquires a perfectly smooth skin. It is allowed to lie for about two 
hours, and then scaled off' in pieces, about 1 lb. 12 oz., to sell at the same 
price as the ordinary 2-lb. loaf. When all are moulded the halves of each 
loaf are pinned out to about 6 in. diameter and 1 in. thick, and placed one 
on top of the other, then pressed close with the heel of the hand and 
placed on baking sheets, slightly greased; the loaves are set some dis- 
tance from each other to allow for spreading; about eight loaves on each 
sheet is the rule. They are docked and washed over with milk when 
placed on sheets, and put away to prove in a dry heat, but protected from 
draughts. If they are placed in a prover with a moist atmosphere they 
need not be washed over in the first instance at all, but it is dangerous to 
use naked steam to prove these loaves, as it not only causes them to spread 



TYPES. OF SCOTCH AND FANCY BREAD 

1. French Staff or Long Vienna. 

2. Belgian Roll. 

3. Baton. 

4. Jenny Lind. 

5. Scotch Pan. 

6. Coburg. 

7. Fancy Milk. 

8. Fancy Rumpy. 







TYPES OF SCOTCH AND FANCY BREAD 



BRITISH FANCY BREADS 169 

too much, but spoils their appearance by producing blisters all over the 
crust. Owing to the dough being stiff they may take an hour to prove, 
whilst in some cases 45 minutes may be sufficient. They are prevention of 
carefully washed over with a strong egg glaze, but before Blisters and 
being placed in the oven they are stabbed in about six or 
eight places with an iron skewer, as a precaution against large holes form- 
ing under the top crust or in the centre of the top part. These loaves, 
even after being given a good proof, are very close in texture, yet not by 
any means heavy. The crumb is short and pleasantly sweet. Customers 
do not keep to this kind of bread constantly, but seem to tire of it readily. 

Instead of stiffening up an ordinary sponge or piece of dough to make 
this class of bread, a short sponge may be made thus. Take 5 lb. flour 
with 2 qt. water at 104° F. Mix 5 oz. of yeast into about 1 pt. Lj^ds from 
of the water, and add 2 oz. of sugar. Make the whole into Sponge and 
a thin sponge in a large jar. Allow it to stand one hour. °"^ " 
Make dough with 15 lb. flour into which 6 oz. of lard has been finely 
rubbed, and 3 pt. water in which 3| oz. salt and 1 oz. sugar are dissolved. 
It is better to keep one pint of this water to rinse out the jar in which the 
ferment or sponge has been made, and as this is a cooling operation the 
water at first should be about 104° F. The dough will be stiff', and on that 
account should, after lying half an hour, be passed several times through a 
biscuit brake, or, if this is not available, it should be well elbowed until 
quite smooth. Elbow or brake it again in another hour; then, after allow- 
ing it to lie about 15 minutes to recover, it may be scaled into the sized 
pieces already indicated, and moulded on to tins and treated as already 
described. Dough made in this way requires to be proved as loaves for 
from 45 minutes to one hour. 

In Scotland it is usual to make several different shapes from the same 
dough. The most common is that locally known as a French loaf. This is 
made generally about the same weight as the Lind. The scotch 
pieces are first moulded long, then, either through a biscuit French Loaf, 
brake or with a rolling-pin, they are made into long sheets of dough about 
14 in. long, 5 in. wide, and about | in. thick. The ends are folded into the 
centre, and the double ends thus formed are turned over one on the top 
of the other. These loaves are proved on tins, back to back, as by this 
arrangement the backs are prevented from crusting too quickly, and the 
fronts of the loaves spring first and open out in the manner desired. They 
require about as long to prove as the other, and, when ready, they are 
glazed over with egg wash and perforated several times through the back 
with a skew^er to prevent the formation of holes or blisters. This method 
of making Scotch French loaves is confined principally to country districts. 
The practice in the large towns is to make them from 
ordinary dough, a little stiffer than usual, and sometimes of Baking in 
with, but more often without, a pound or so of lard per ^^^t and West 
sack of flour. When the dough is of this sort the West 
of Scotland practice is to prove the loaves in boxes, and then set them 

Vol, I. 22 



170 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

with ends touching each other, but back to back, on the oven bottom, with- 
out any tins. The practice in the East is to bake these in long, shallow 
tins, with sides about 2 in. deep, the loaves, however, in this case as in the 
other being hatched or close together at the ends. These loaves take about 
one hour to bake, and, when done, are washed over the upper edge witli 
water only, which imparts a gloss to the surface, especially if the oven 
has been moderately warm. The standing difficulty in making this shape 
of loaf, whether from ordinary dough or from the stiff sort first described, 
is that of avoiding large spaces under the top crust, or, on the other hand, 
Holes in of preventing the two parts of the loaves from sticking 

French Loaves, together at the front, where they should open, and cracking 
at the back, where they should be continuous. One cause of the latter 
defect has been already noticed, viz., want of protection for the back and 
the formation of crust too soon. But another, and the most usual, cause is 
unripeness of dough. The persistency of holes is usually the result of bad 
moulding, but may also be due to the dough being over-ripe. This type of 
loaf is made in several parts of the country, although hardly in two 
districts under the same name. In some parts they are called bricks; but 
turnover is a more common name, whilst in Ireland large loaves of this 
shape are called lumps, and in some parts, notably in Limerick district, 
where they are made very thin, they are called household. 

Another shape of loaf made from the same kind of dough as Linds is 
one or other form of the rumpy or porcupine loaf (see Plate, Scotch and 
Fancy Bread, No. 8). There is no difference in the mode 
of manipulation, except that the loaves are first moulded or 
chaffed round, and then made oval, and proved on tins slightly greased. 
When sufficiently proved, they are glazed over with a wash consisting of 
one Qgg mixed with enough water to fill half the egg shell, or one yolk 
Strong with twice that amount of water, the water and egg in each 

Egg Wash, gg^gg being thoroughly well mixed, so that the texture or grain 
of the egg is quite destroyed; otherwise the loaves may be streaky. The 
wash must not be applied as soon as the loaves are moulded, as is some- 
times done, for the loaves are then hardly half the bulk they are after 
proof, and the smaller surface covered at first will only show as a round 
glazed patch after proof, while the greater part of the loaf has a com- 
paratively dull appearance. After washing over, the loaves are neatly 
cut with a sharp knife; a pocket knife serves best for this purpose. The 
usual design consists simply of straight parallel lines or of diagonal lines 
crossing each other, forming diamonds. The cuts must be very light, 
only cutting the skin; otherwise, if they are deep, they open out too 
much, and produce too broad a line of white as compared with the darker 
crust on each side. But clean cuts and not scratches must be made, or 
the crust of the loaf looks rough and ragged. As a rule, loaves allowed 
to prove thus freely are clearer and lighter than those confined in tins. 

The shape called Coburg (Plate, Scotch and Fancy Bread, No. 6) 
may also be made from stiff dough. It is manipulated in exactly the 



BRITISH FANCY BREADS 171 

same way as rumples. The loaves, after moulding oval, must in this 

case, however, be washed over and cut at once, as they have to be 

proved under the covers. Those covers are usually oval, ^ ^ ^ ,. 

^ 1,11 1 Scotch Coburg. 

similar to the brown bread covers; but oblong or round 

ones may be used for variety. The cutting is done in the same way 

as already described; but when covers are used, more ingenuity may be 

exercised in the designs with good effect. Besides parallel lines and 

diamonds, radiating lines, parallel angles, leaves, ferns, curves, &c., may 

all be made on the loaves by the use of egg; wash and a sharp knife. 

As in the case of brown bread baked under covers, it is better to keep 

one of the covers mouth upward to note when the loaves cut Designs 

are sufficiently proved; and as white dough springs a good °" Loaves. 

deal more than brown, the loaves must not be proved above 1| in. from 

the top of the tin before they are set in the oven, and 14 oz. of even 

stiff dough will be quite sufficient to fill a cover of 1 lb. size. This kind 

of bread, like all the others made from stiff dough, has a close and even 

texture, and breaks quite short. It eats sweet and moist, and keeps moist 

longer than bread made from much softer dough. It is, of course, sold 

at a higher price than plain — usually 14 oz. for 2d., or 1| lb. for Sd. 

Pan loaves of fancy shapes are generally recognized and sold as fancy 

bread. The ordinary round shape like a roller, called a pistol, may be 

made from ordinary dough; but like the fluted loaf, or what Fancy Pan 

is known as a toast loaf (Plate, Toast and Milk Bread), Loaves. 

it is better made from a special dough, for which the following method 

will be found suitable. Weigh 40 lb. English patent flour and make 

into a slack dough with 2^ gal. water at 100° F., 3 oz. sugar, 8 oz. 

salt, 8 oz. lard, and 10 oz. yeast. Work this dough till it becomes very 

tough and elastic, the operation taking by hand quite 20 minutes; or if 

a small machine is available, mix it in the machine for 15 minutes. 

When thoroughly toughened, work in 6 lb. more flour until it is 

thoroughly mixed. Allow this dough to lie in a warm place for 2| hours 

altogether, kneading thoroughly twice in that time. It should then be 

ready for scaling. As this dough is very elastic, 2 lb. of dough for each 

loaf will be as bulky when baked as 2 lb. 3 oz. of ordinary dough; and 

for close tins, whether round or oblong, the smaller quantity will usually 

be sufficient. The loaves must first be handed up, and then moulded after 

lying about 10 minutes. Moulding has to be done with some care, as the 

toughness of the dough makes it difficult to work for those familiar only 

with ordinary dough. When moulded, the loaves should be neatly placed in 

a row, and, when a sufficient number are done, well greased all over with 

melted lard, and then placed in the tins which have been cleaned but not 

greased. This plan of greasing the loaves over instead of 

the tins gives the loaves a nice rich bloom, and makes their '■^^^'"S 

crust very short and crisp. Loaves made from dough of this kind do not 

require to be proved so high in the tins before setting, but should be placed 

in the oven with a smaller proof than ordinary tin bread, as they spring a 



172 



SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 



great deal more while baking. The bread will be of an even texture with 
a fine pile, and will cut without crumbling; but bread made in this way 
seems to become dry when stale. This method is very suitable for plain 
pistols, for toast bread, or for Scotch pans baked four in one pan. Instead 
of using lard in the mixture, a better loaf is obtained for all the sorts 
mentioned by using half milk and half water for dough-making; but in 
this case it is necessary to bake the bread a little more; otherwise it seems 
underdone. This last sort of bread may properly be called milk bread, and 
sold as such, the price being, if possible, 50 per cent more than plain. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

HARVEST FESTIVAL BREAD 



Towards the end of September or the beginning of October each year, 
bakers, especially in the southern parts of England, are frequently asked to 
Harvest supply large loaves for harvest festivals in churches. Any- 

Festival Bread, thing large seems acceptable, such as a monster cottage, or 
a twist, or a long loaf of inordinate length, but preference is usually given 

to the wheatsheaf (see Plate, Harvest Fes- 
tival Loaves), as the emblem of plenty, and 
if this loaf is of good size and neatly made it 
approaches as near the ornamental as the bread 
baker can get. A convenient size for a loaf 
of this kind is about 26 or 28 lb. of dough. 
Ordinary bread dough made a little stifFer than 
for crusty cottage bread will suffice, but it is 
really better to make a special dough for the 
purpose. It is a mistake some bakers make 
to have the dough as stiff as that for biscuit, 
the result being that the loaf hardly springs at 
all, but is more like a hard tile than a plump, 
soft, healthy-looking loaf. Weigh 18 lb. patent 
grade flour similar to that used for bread, and 
make into a smooth dough with 6 oz. yeast, 
4 oz. salt, 2 oz. sugar, and 3| qt. water at 100° F. 
Allow this dough to lie 1 hour; then knead well, 
and after another 20 minutes beat out into a 
sheet of dough about 2 in. thick with the knuckles first, but finishing with 
Making a ^ thick rolling-pin, or through a biscuit brake if that is avail- 
Wheatsheaf. able. This gives you a sheet all alike in thickness, with a 
smooth surface and an even texture. From this piece of dough cut out with 
a sharp knife a part the shape of a wheat sheaf (fig. 15); then cut the edges 
all round in a sloping direction, so that the dough next the baking sheet ifc' 




Fig. 15.— Shape of Sheet of Dough for 
Harvest Festival Loaf 





< 
O 

< 

> 

P 

u, 

C/5 

m 
> 

< 
X 



HARVEST FESTIVAL BREAD 



173 





quite thin, and sloping upwards, to give the sheaf a rounded appearance. 

This shaped piece should be, at the head and widest part, about 2 in. less 

than the width of the baking sheet on which it is placed. The cuttings 

from the rough sheet of dough will be sufficient material for the wheat ears 

and stalks. Before making these the sheaf should be well watered all over, 

to prevent it skinning, as well as to act as a means of holding on the ears. 

These are made singly (fig. 16). Each ear should not contain more than 

about \ oz. of dough. This is rolled out under the hand, and „^^ 

"* * Wheat Ears, 

made pointed at one end and rounded at the other. The 

rounded end is pinched between the two forefingers, the ear lying or hang- 
ing along the palm of the hand with the point downwards. With a small 
pair of scissors thin cuts are made down the centre of the ear about \ in. 
deep, and in a direction nearly parallel to the ear itself, finishing at the 
pointed end. This 
has the effect of 
making a row of 
sharp-pointed pieces 
overlapping each 
other down the 
centre of the ear. In 
the same way cuts 
are made down each 
side of the ear, be- 
tween the flaps of the 
centre row. When 
finished, the ear is 
rolled gently under i?? stage 
the hand on the 
table. The result is 

a very good imitation of an ear of wheat. When a number of these are 
prepared (and they are easier to make than to describe) they are placed 
close together, but not touching, all round the top of the wheatsheaf. 
The next row is placed between these, but farther down, leaving about 
\\ in. of the first row exposed. To make the sheaf look natural, care 
must be taken after the two top rows are in position not to place the 
others too formally. To this end each succeeding row should not have 
the points too regular, either in distance apart or in position or direction 
(see Plate, Harvest Festival Loaves). The ears at the side should 
point in the same direction as that in the body at the head; only some 
of them should be turned slightly round as if drooping. Altogether 
about six rows of ears will be required; but, of course, as these approach 
the centre the rows become smaller. When enough are 
done and placed in position, wheat stalks have to be 
made. These are simply small pieces of dough no larger than those 
required for ears, but rolled out very long, and about the thickness of a 
wheat straw. The sheaf being kept quite moist by repeated washings with 




2nd Stage 3rd stage 4th Stage 

Fig. 16.— Stages in Preparation of Wheat Ears 



5th stage 



Making Straws. 



174 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

water, the straws when made are placed on it close together until the whole 
is covered; then a second row may be placed on top of these, especially in 
the centre, but not in formal order. The straws finish where the ears 
begin; and as it is not possible to make neat joinings or to hide them, a 
number of ears should be cut and placed at irregular angles, some drooping 
to one side and some to the other, with some bent round as if drooping 
towards you. The next thing is to prepare the band. This consists of 
about twelve straws placed together and twisted round loosely, then tied 
in a loose knot in the centre. This is then placed across the centre of the 
sheaf, bent slightly, but not pressed down at all, the two loose ends being 
tucked underneath at the sides. When all is finished, it is thoroughly 
glazed over with egg wash, care being taken to force the wash 
into the crevices between the ears and under the edges of the 
band. By the time all this is done the loaf will be ready for the oven; but 
before setting it there, it must be stabbed in a good many places with a 
pointed knife to prevent its cracking. The knife holes should be made in 
the same direction as the wheat straws and ears, so as to show no cross 
marks when the bread is baked. The oven should be about 420° F., and a 
loaf of this size ought to bake in from forty-five minutes to an hour. It 
must be very well baked, so that the crust keeps crisp even when stale. 
There is some danger of breaking this loaf when removing it from the tin, 
and the break always occurs just where the band is. It is to reduce this 
danger, as well as to make the sheaf look natural, that the band is not 
placed straight across, but is bent; for the same reason, also, thorough 
baking is advised. 

Crowns, anchors, and other strange shapes are sometimes made by 
bakers for harvest festival displays; but these, made with dough, are 
neither beautiful in themselves, nor are they appropriate to the occasion. 
Besides the wheatsheaf, there is another form of harvest loaf which is 
appropriate, and that is a long plain loaf as flat as possible on the top, and 
Long Harvest with the words harvest festival printed on it. The recipe 
L°^f- given above is very suitable for a loaf of this kind. The 

greatest ingenuity and skill can be displayed in the manner of writing the 
words on the loaf. Printing with icing sugar after the loaf is baked must 
be ruled out. The use of orange or lemon peel for the purpose is not so 
bad, as the contrast in colour between the brown of the bread and the 
darker brown of the peel is not so glaring as that between the bread and 
white sugar; but the proper material to use for the printing is bread itself. 
This is sometimes done by making little round pieces of very stiff dough, 
and forming the letters with these. The method is quite eflective, but not 
very ingenious. Another, and an easier plan, is to wash over the loaf with 
egg wash just before it is placed in the oven, then to cut the surface with 
Printing on a sharp penknife in the form of letters which open out and show 
Bread. -^qIq {^ ^ dark setting when the loaf is baked. If the cuts are 

carefully made of varying depth to represent hair and thick strokes, it 
is possible to make a large loaf look very neat in this way, particularly if 




BRUNSWICK LOAVES 




MILK LOAVES SHOWING DESIGNS ON TOP 




COBURG MILK LOAVES 



MILK BREAD 



MILK BREAD 175 

a little ornament in the same style is made as a border. The most appro- 
priate and the neatest way of forming letters and borders on harvest loaves 
is by the use of wheat ears. For the letters, these can be made of any size 
in proportion to the size of the loaf, and by making letters of fancy or 
rustic shape they may look very neat (see Plate, Harvest Festival 
Loaves). A harvest festival loaf of the size indicated above could not be 
sold under about 6s., and this sum would hardly compensate for the time 
taken; only such loaves have at times to be made to oblige customers, and 
some return may be obtained by way of advertisement. 



CHAPTER XXIX 

MILK BREAD 



All kinds of loaves are sold as milk bread, even some in which there is 
no milk used. A little glaze on the top or a little lard inside is sometimes 
made the excuse for the use of the name. In other cases, and 
these are probably most common, pieces of ordinary bun dough 
with the usual quantity of sugar and fat are baked in tins and sold as milk 
bread. The name is used now as signifying only bread made wholly 
or partly with milk in place of water. There is no technical difficulty 
about using milk wholly as the liquor with which to make dough; 
but the bread, from the baker's point of view, is not so satisfactory as 
bread made partly with milk and partly with water. When milk only 
is used, the bread is small and bound, probably because of the coagulation 
of the casein of the milk. If bulk is not specially desired, the proportion 
of milk to water may be as two to one; but excellent results are obtained 
if the proportions are half and half. Since the beneficent pauHg ,„ Bread 
effects of milk are due to the fat it contains, the best effects made wholly 
are only o})tained if new milk with all its cream is used. ^^^ ^ 
Skimmed milk is not, as might be supposed, suitable for use in bread- 
making, not so much because of the absence of its fat, but on account of 
the large quantity of milk sugar it contains in conjunction with lactic 
germs, which are always present in considerable number in milk, and 
which readily produce lactic acid from the milk sugar. This skim Milk 
lactic acid, quite apart from its sourness, has an excessive solvent Defects, 
action on the gluten of flour, with the result that bread made with milk 
much more readily becomes dry and crumbly than that made with water. 
If it is made wholly with skimmed milk, these bad effects are likely to be 
twice as great as when half new milk is used, and the good effects accruing 
from the latter are absent from the former. 

The general effects of the use of fresh milk are to give the crumb of the 
bread a rich creamy colour and an even texture, to make the crust thin 
and fine, and to improve the flavour of the bread. As a rule it is better 



176 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BEEAD 

to make milk bread rather slack. The following method is recommended 
when the quantity is considerable. Make a thin sponge with 1| gal, water 
Recipe for at 100° F., 15 lb. flour, 8 oz. yeast, 3 oz. sugar. This sponge 
Milk Bread, should be made very tough by beating well in the tub with 
the hand or a stick. It should then be scraped clean on the sides, the top 
covered with flour, and a clean bag placed over the tub to keep out dust. 
If allowed to stand in a warm place it should rise and drop in about 
45 minutes. For dough, weigh 33 lb. moderately strong flour, and of good 
colour, 9 oz. salt, 4 oz. lard or butter, 2 oz. sugar, 1 gal. milk, and | gal. 
water, the two last mixed together and heated to 100° F. Sponge is first 
broken as smoothly as possible with the milk and water and a smooth fine 
dough made. If a machine is used, the sponge need not first be broken 
up in the liquor but may be emptied in the machine on top of the flour, 
some of the liquor used to rinse out the tub, and the whole made into dough 
in the usual way. The dough should then lie in the trough for 1^- hour 
in all, and ought to be kneaded at least once and if possible twice. It 
should in that time be ready for scaling. It is usual to make it in small 
loaves weighing from 12 to 14 oz., which are sold at 2d., or in 1| lb. sizes or 
1 lb. 6 oz. to sell at 3d (See Plate, Milk Bread.) 

The shape may be anything convenient, but these loaves are usually 
made in tins. A small cake hoop, either round or oval, may be used, and 
Shapes of when the loaves are nearly ready for the oven they are cut 
Milk Bread, qj^ ^op rather deep with a sharp knife. Before cutting they 
should be washed over with a v/eak egg wash, not so much to make them 
glossy as to give them a rich bloom. A common shape is that already 
described as a Coburg (see Plate, Milk Bread). When this shape is made 
with soft dough it must not be allowed to prove quite so much as when the 
dough is stiff"; otherwise the cover will be lifted up and the loaf thrown on 
one side, giving it an unsightly appearance. Milk loaves may be made in 
long tins, a few cuts being made on top either lengthways or diagonally. 
A neat and rather fancy-looking loaf is obtained by rolling or moulding 
the dough into one long strip about 16 in. long, flattening it slightly, and 
rolling up from both ends into the form of an S-like scroll. This is proved 
in a fluted tin with .slightly sloping sides. The bottom part of the loaf 
looks quite as if moulded in one piece, showing only the fluted marks of 
the tin, while the top shows the scroll form produced at moulding. This 
loaf is well proved and glazed with egg wash before baking (see Plate, 
Toast and Milk Bread). If the milk bread is wanted crusty the loaf 
can be made round and proved on cloths upside down, then a crease made 
in the top as in the split Coburg (see the Plate, Scotch and Irish Loaves). 

Instead of making sponge as above, excellent milk bread is produced 
by the straight-dough method as follows. Weigh 20 lb. flour, 5 oz. yeast. 
Rich Milk ^h OZ. salt, 2 OZ. sugar. Make dough in the usual way, toughen- 
Bread. jj-^g {^ -y^eU \)y ^^ixing with 2 qt. water and 2| qt. milk mixed to- 

gether and heated to 104° F. Allow this dough to lie 2J hours, kneading 
well twice in that time; then scale, hand up, and mould in the usual way 




FLUTED TOAST BREAD 




FANCY MILK LOAVES 




TOAST BREAD 



TOAST AND MILK BREAD 



MILK BREAD 177 

into any form desired. A milk loaf of very superior quality may be made 
thus. Rub into 10 lb. flour 3 oz. of butter; then make dough with 1| qt. 
milk and 1 qt. water together raised to 104-'' F., 2 oz. salt, 3 oz. yeast, and 
2 oz. sugar. This dough will be soft, and must be well toughened in 
mixing to make it easy to handle. It should be ready for scaling in about 
two hours after it has been made, but should be kneaded once or twice in 
that period. The pieces for loaves should be weighed at 1;^ lb. to be sold 
for 3d. They are moulded round, and, after lying a little, are flattened 
with a rolling-pin to about 6 in. diameter; then baked under covers con- 
sisting of ordinary round cake tins of the diameter mentioned, and about 
2 in. deep. (See Brunswick Loaves, Plate Milk Bread.) These tins or 
covers must have holes pierced in the bottom to prevent the tin rising 
as the loaf proves. These loaves may be washed over with a weak 
egg wash before the covers are placed over them, and one cover should 
be allowed to stand open end upward to show how proof is proceeding. 
The loaves must be made quite flat, and are ready for the oven when 
about I inch from the top of the open tin. When baked they should be 
exactly the shape of the interior of the tin, the same thickness throughout, 
with a fine and perfectly even texture, the crumb of a creamy-white, 
and the crust golden -brown. 

Instead of using fresh milk for fancy bread, quite as good results may 
be obtained from the best quality of dried milk, of which there are now 

several brands on the market. This milk is guaranteed pure, 

. r ' Dried Milk, 

that is, containing all the constituents of fresh milk except the 

water. This is much better than the so-called condensed milk, which 

contains a greater or less quantity of sugar. It is better than fresh milk, 

as the quality is always the same, and also because there need be no waste 

in its use, and it can be stocked, if kept in a cool place, for any reasonable 

time. It can be used in the proportion of 3 oz. of dried milk to each quart 

of water, or, if the milk is wanted extra strong, 4 oz, to the quart. There 

is no trouble in preparing the milk. It is made first into a smooth paste 

with warm but not boiling water; then the remainder of the water is 

added, and the whole well stirred. It seems very soluble. It is best to 

be made just as required. If dried milk is used for the above recipes, the 

milk can be added in the powder form to the water in the proportion 

required for the amount of milk to be used. This dried milk is equally 

suitable for all sorts of small goods in which milk is used; it should be 

noted, however, that cheap dried milks, of which there are also several 

brands on the market, do not contain the cream or butter fat, and therefore 

do not give the same results as the best, nor the same as fresh milk. These 

dried skim milks may be used with advantage in scones, cheap cake, &c., 

and may be used in smaller proportion in bread, the effect being to improve 

the texture, and give the crust a finer appearance. 



Vol. I. 2» 



178 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

CHAPTER XXX 

CUERANT AND SULTANA BREAD 

There is considerable sale for a plain loaf containing a few currants or 

other fruit, and for the last year or so this bread has been in even greater 

, favour owing to extensive advertising undertaken by the 
Currant Bread. o »/ 

government of Greece to boom the currant trade. If 

currants only are to be used the general practice is to work about 1 lb. 

of currants into 16 lb. of bread dough along with about 4 oz. of sugar. 

When a quantity has to be made it is really better to make a lighter dough, 

euch as for tin bread, and mix currants along with it. Weigh 50 lb. flour 

and make it into dough with 2f gal. water at 100'' F., 10 oz. yeast, 8 oz. 

salt, 10 oz. sugar, 8 oz. lard or other fat, and 6 lb. currants. The dough 

should lie in the trough for 2 hours," to be well kneaded once in that time. 

It should then be ready for scaling. The loaves are weighed at the rate 

of about 2 lb. of dough for 5d. The best shape of tin for this sort of bread 

is long and narrow, say 8 in. long, 2 in. wide at the bottom, 2^ in. at the 

top, and 3 in. deep. This tin will enable a loaf weighing 16 or 18 oz. to 

look quite substantial and large. The top of the loaf, after proof, which 

may take half an hour after moulding, should be washed over with a weak 

egg glaze before baking. 

Instead of using currants only in this dough an excellently flavoured 
loaf is obtained by using the same proportion of fruit, but consisting of 
Mixed half currants and half sultanas with, in addition, 8 oz. of orange 

Fruit Loaf. ^qq[ q^^ very fine and 1 oz. caraway seeds. No change need 
be made in the method of handling if a slightly larger quantity of fruit is 
used, but the dough will require longer proof in tins. If the quantity of 
fruit is increased the weight of the loaves is decreased or the price raised 
to meet the extra cost; it is usually more convenient to reduce the weight, 
because of the need for keeping this sort of bread always at one price. 

There is, in some districts, a demand for a richer fruit loaf than that 
described above. This sort of loaf is best made with a sponge or ferment. 
Rich Fruit which may be prepared thus. Measure out 2| qt. milk and 
Loaf. 2| qt. water; mix and raise to 104° F. Mix 7 oz. of yeast 

thoroughly in a small quantity of this liquor, then whisk the whole 
well together, add 1 lb. of sugar, and then thoroughly beat in 10 lb. of 
flour. This will ferment very vigorously, and if kept in a warm place 
should rise and drop 2 in. or more in 45 minutes. Weigh on the board or 
into the trough 16 lb. moderately strong flour, and rub well in 3 lb. lard 
or other tasteless fat. Make a bay and place round it 3 lb. sultana raisins, 
3 lb. currants, and 1 lb. orange peel cut into small pieces about the size of 
currants. When the ferment has dropped, dough is made, no more liquor 
being required, but 3 oz. salt and 3 lb. sugar are dissolved in the ferment. 
After lying 1 hour, at the end of which the dough is well kneaded, it 



CUKRANT AND SULTANA BREAD 179 

should be ready for scaling. About 12 oz. of this dough for 2d., and 1^ lb. 
for Sd. are the sizes most saleable. As this dough is somewhat richer 
than the others given, it is more sluggish in proof, but if kept at a 
moderate heat in the tins, should be ready for the oven in about forty-five 
minutes. Owing to the greater quantity of sugar in this dough, and the 
larger proportion of fruit, the loaves keep moist for several days. 

It is often useful to make a speciality of a fruit loaf, and this should 
be done by making it of superior quality and different in shape from the 
ordinary; but when the quality and shape are determined, no special 
effort should be spared to keep it always alike. A very P*""'^ ^°^^' 
superior loaf may be made thus. Make a sponge in a jar with, say, 1 qt. 
water at 104° F., 4 oz. yeast, 2 oz. sugar, and 2 lb. flour. This sponge will 
rise and drop in a little over half an hour. Make dough then with 3 pt. 
milk and 1 pt. water mixed and heated to 100° F., 11 lb. patent grade flour, 
8 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, 1^ oz. salt, and 3 lb. sultana raisins carefully 
picked and cleaned. This dough will be softer than for ordinary bread, 
but stiffer than bun dough. It should be allowed to stand in a warm 
place for about one and a half hour, and then weighed into the sizes 
desired. To make a distinction between this and other fruit loaves, it may 
be made in the form of a twist and proved on a baking sheet. It will take 
twenty-five to thirty minutes to prove, but must not be made too light. 
After baking, it may be dusted over with icing sugar instead of being 
glazed. 

It may be noted that none of the recipes given above, except one, 
contains a large quantity of sugar, nor any eggs. Fruit loaves that are 
sweet are more in the nature of buns, and do not hold 
customers so steadily as those that are soft and nicely 
coloured without sweetness, except that naturally belonging to the dried 
fruit they contain. Eggs in bread do not enhance its value in anything 
like proportion to their cost, and the loaves containing them really seem to 
eat drier when stale than if made without. Eggs have, of course, a special 
value in producing a rich colour, and in increasing the salt in 
dietetic value of the bread. The small quantity of salt Sweet Loaves, 
added removes the unpleasant freshness which is so apparent even when 
much sugar is used without salt. 

The recipe given which contains the largest quantity of sugar should 
really be classed as one for a bun loaf. This article is in great favour in 
many parts of Ireland and in Scotland, particularly at Christmas and New 
Year season. In the north of Ireland this is made either in the form of 
a fruit loaf in 2-lb. and 4-lb. sizes, the latter selling as high as 3s. 6d. to 
48., or in flat shapes baked on baking sheets, and called harm 
hrak or brack. The price is determined by the quantity of 
fruit in it. The usual method, and not the worst, is to make a strong 
dough, or take a portion of bread dough and work in the other ingredients 
afterwards. For this purpose make a dough with 20 lb. moderately strong 
flour, 4 oz. salt, 2 oz. sugar, 6 oz. yeast, and 1 gal. water at 100° F. Allow 



180 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BEEAD 

this dough to lie 2 hours; then thoroughly work in 2 lb. butter, 2 lb. sugar, 
and 8 eggs; and when this is all thoroughly mixed, work in 2h lb. sultanas, 
2 lb. currants, and 1 lb. orange peel cut fine. This tearing and mixing will 
have made the dough close and tough, so it should lie an hour to recover 
before scaling. If wanted for barm brak, the pieces are from 1 to 1| lb. 
They are moulded round, then pinned out to about 7 in. in diameter and 
1 in. thick, placed on greased baking sheets, and glazed over with strong 
egg wash; then placed in a warm but dry prover. Owing to the large 
quantity of fruit they contain, they will take quite an hour to prove, and 
Irish Fruit will not then be bulky, as they are not intended to be extremely 
Loaves. light. Before setting, they are again washed over with glaze and 
stabbed with a thin skewer to prevent blisters. They must be thoroughly 
baked, and in an oven not above 420° F. The fruit loaves made in tins 
receive the same treatment, and are also glazed on top, but not stabbed 
with a skewer. However, they need long proof, careful watching in baking, 
and must be very thoroughly done. 

In Scotland the old-fashioned bun loaf is made in a different way. 
The centre is the loaf proper, but is covered round with a paste 
Scotch Bun made of fermented dough and contains butter as shorten- 
Loaves. j^g Pqj. ^]^q interior a straight dough made as follows is 

suitable. 20 lb. flour has 2 oz. mixed spice sifted through it and 2 lb. 
lard well rubbed in. A bay is made, and 2 lb. sultanas, 2 lb. raisins, 
and 1 lb. cut orange peel placed round it; 2^ lb. sugar is weighed into 
the bay, and 3 oz. salt. Dough is made with 2 qt. milk and 2J qt. 
water mixed together and heated to 100" F. 5 oz. yeast is dissolved 
in a small quantity of the liquor, and the whole is then made into 
dough. This may lie for about three hours and be kneaded once in that 
time, after which it may be scaled into pieces of the sizes desired. The 
outer crust may consist of 5 lb. bread dough, into which 10 oz. of butter 
has been worked till quite smooth. For each 2-lb. centre about 6 oz. of 
Covering for this covering dough will be sufficient. The piece is pinned 
Bun Loaves, q^^ i[\\ about ^ in. thick and more or less square. It is then 
well washed over with water and the fruit centre placed on it. Corners 
are cut out, and the four flaps thus formed turned up so as completely 
to cover the centre dough. This is pressed all over with the hands to 
ensure that the crust sticks to the centre dough and to prevent blisters. 
The whole loaf is then turned over, placed in a greased tin, and pressed 
well into the sides and corners, so that the centre at first is a little thinner 
than the sides. These loaves are generally made in flat oblong shapes. 
As the centre proves, the outer crust stretches with it, but the crust must 
be docked over on top, when first placed in tins, to prevent blisters. 
The loaves, kept in a warm place, will be ready for the oven in about 
forty-five minutes. They are then carefully stabbed with a skewer, and 
glazed over and baked. 

This bun loaf seems to be only a lighter and cheaper form of the 
Scotch bun, which can hardly be described as a loaf, as it consists 



CURRANT AND SULTANA BREAD 181 

wliolly of fruit; but since it contains fermented dough this seems the most 
suitable place to give the recipe and method of making. This bun also 
consists of a centre mostly of fruit, with an outer crust of Scotch 
fermented dough shortened with butter. For the interior, Currant Bun. 
take 7 lb. bread dough and mix thoroughly in it 14 oz. butter and 6 oz. 
mixed spice. When mixed spread out on the table, and weigh 10 lb. seed- 
less or stoned raisins, 10 lb. cleaned and washed currants, 3 lb. orange 
peel, and IJ lb. whole almonds (blanched). Place all these together on 
the top of the dough and tear the latter up amongst the fruit, gradually 
incorporating all together into a stiff dough, in which the dough and fruit 
are evenly mixed. This operation may require quite half an hour, turning 
the mixture backwards and forwards in small pieces, spreading and press- 
ing to get the fruit to stick. When well mixed and holding together, it 
may be allowed to rest for an hour. It is then cut into pieces and blocked 
to size. This is done by dusting well the inside of the tin to be ultimately 

used for bakinof the bun, and pressing the piece of fruit „, , . „ 

T, • 1 -1 1 ii , 'i ii Blocking Buns, 

mixture well into the sides and corners so that it exactly 

takes the shape of the tin; it can then be dumped out and will retain its 
shape. One tin of each size may be used to block all the buns of the 
respective sizes. The paste or crust for covering these is made by working 
2 lb. of butter into 9 lb. of bread dough till it is quite smooth. P'or a 
bun weighing 3 lb., 6 oz. will be sufficient for cover; 8 oz. for 4 lb.; 
12 oz. for 6 lb.; > and so on. The cover is pinned out till it is a little 
more than twice the size of the bun it is to cover: it is washed over, 
the bun placed in the centre, corner pieces are cut out and placed on the 
bun where the cover will otherwise be thinnest; then the flaps are drawn 
over so as completely to cover the central part. It is then squeezed up 
thicker by pressing on the sides and ends; the tin in which it is to be 
baked, already well greased with cold lard, is placed over it, and tin and 
bun are together turned over. It is then squeezed out with the heel of 
the hand again to fill the tin properly, the centre of the bun being made 
a little thinner than at the sides. It is at once docked with a biscuit- 
docker to prevent blisters forming under the crust, and is also washed 
over with a little milk or water. After lying in this condition for an 
hour, the buns are stabbed all over with a skewer and washed on top 
with a weak egg glaze, and baked in an oven not above 400° F. One 
weighing 3 lb. will bake in 1| to 2 hours; the larger sizes take a pro- 
portionately greater time. As the top crust becomes hard Baking Times 
while baking long before the bun is sufficiently done, it is ^°^ Buns, 
necessary, when trying whether it is properly baked, to turn it out of the 
tin and feel the centre of the bottom part with the finger. If done enough 
the bottom will be quite hard; if underdone, it will be soft and leathery, 
in which case it must be put back in the tin and allowed to stand some 
time longer in oven. When thoroughly baked the buns are turned out on 
their tops and allowed to lie in this condition until they are thoroughly 
cold before handling. This is a very old recipe for Scotch currant bun, 



182 SPECIAL BEITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

and has always given great satisfaction to customers. As the flavour is 
a special consideration, the spice mixture, which is also very old, may be 
given here, although it hardly belongs to bread-making; but it is suitable 
for all purposes in which spice is used. The quantities are: — Ground 
Mixed Spice coriander, 8 oz.; ground cinnamon, 8 oz.; ground ginger, 4 oz.; 
for Buns. ground nutmeg, 4 oz.; white pepper, 2 oz. These, of course, 
are intimately mixed together, and kept in a closed tin or wide-mouthed 
bottle for use as required. 



CHAPTER XXXI 

HAND-MADE HARD BISCUITS 



Biscuits are not bread, and yet can hardly be classed as confectionery; 
so there is a little difficulty in allocating the proper place in this w^ork for 
instructions concerning them. Except in Scotland, there is not a very large 
biscuit trade now done by ordinary bakers, and even there the products of 
Hand-made ^^^ biscuit factories have nearly destroyed a trade that twenty 
Biscuits. years ago formed a considerable portion of the work in nearly 
every Scottish bakery. There is still, however, a demand for hard biscuits 
of the water variety, and for ship biscuits, in the neighbourhood of fishing 
stations. In any case there is from time to time a return to old fashions, 
and on that account alone it is as well that bakers should retain the know- 
ledge of how to make those articles which were in high favour with past 
generations of customers and the old - fashioned amongst the present 
generation; in some localities these are still well worth catering for. 

Whatever kinds of hard biscuits are made, their quality depends on the 
character of the flour more than on anything else. Flours that are strong 
Nature of Flour ^^^ particularly suitable for bread are unsuitable for biscuit 
for Biscuits. work. For the latter very soft flours are needed, but not 

those which are soft only because they contain a high proportion of starch 
and a low proportion of soft gluten. Flours of this kind, of which some 
of the very soft American are good examples, produce biscuits that are thin 
and flinty and altogether unsatisfactory. Good biscuit flours are those 
which have very ductile glutens, and may have as much as 8 or 9 per cent 
without being too strong. French flours made wholly from French wheat 
are very suitable for biscuits; so also are flours from sound English wheats, 
French, English, ^^^ those from the good wheat areas of Scotland, although 
and Scotch Flour, some of the poorer Scotch wheat has not sufficient strength 
even for this purpose. In hard biscuits there is not as a rule any aerating 
or raising agent, so that the extent to which the biscuits spring in the oven 
What makes depends more on the expansion of the starch of the flour, 
Biscuits spring? but to some extent on the lifting tendency of the steam 
generated during baking. These springing effects in their turn are modified 



HAND-MADE HAED BISCUITS 183 

for good or evil according to the manner in which the dough has been 
manipulated before coming to the oven: if properly handled, the biscuits 
will be short and plump; if badly treated, they will be thin and hard, 
although in both cases the ingredients may have been entirely alike. When 
results of this sort are not caused by the mode of working, but, as already 
noticed, are due to the nature of the flour, the only thing to do is to add 
a small quantity of some aerating agent, either carbonate use of Aerating 
of ammonia or soda and cream of tartar. The quality Agents in Biscuits. 
of the biscuit also depends a good deal on the state of the oven, one that is 
hot producing much better results than one that is cold, with the reservation 
only that very thick biscuits cannot be baked in an oven suitably hot for 
thin ones, as they will acquire too much colour before they are baked in 
their centres. 

At one time for ship's biscuits nothing was used but dressed seconds 
flour, but now flour of household class is more common. The following 
quantities and method will be found to produce satisfactory 
biscuits. Weigh 40 lb. flour on to the table, or, if a small 
machine is available, into the machine. To make biscuit dough of this will 
require l|-lf gal. of water, in which 6 oz, of salt should be dissolved; no 
other ingredients are used. If dough is made in the machine, no special 
instructions are needed except that it should be made thoroughly. If it has 
to be made by hand, more care is needed to prevent scrap forming. The 
flour is formed into a bay on the table, and the salt placed How to make 
in its centre. The whole of the water is then measured into Biscuit Dough, 
the bay, and after the salt has been dissolved, the flour is drawn in until the 
whole is a mass of lumps of flour and water. This mixture is thrown back 
and forward with the hands until it appears to be all alike — no large lumps 
in one part and dry flour in another. This powdery mixture has then to be 
taken a little at a time, and rubbed very hard between the heel of the hand 
and the table, until it sticks together into little pieces of dough. This sort 
of manipulation must be repeated with the whole mass until it is really firm 
dough, the elbow being brought into use to stick it together at the last part 
of the operation. This dough should not be run through Rolling or 
the biscuit rollers at once, but should be allowed to rest for Braking Dough, 
half an hour or so. It is then well braked on the rollers, the sign of com- 
pletion of this operation being perfect smoothness of surface and a close 
smooth surface internally when cut. It may happen that in braking the 
dough the surface cracks badly. When this is the case, it is when Dough 
best to wash the dough over with water and allow it to lie cracks, 
covered up for some time, after which it will be more pliable. The dough 
should lie another hour or so before being finally made into biscuits. If 
these are hand-made, some skill is needed in moulding or chafiing the 
individual biscuits — an intelligible description of that operation is hopeless 
— but if any considerable quantity is required, a small brake Biscuit-cutting 
and cutting machine should be obtained. The biscuits are Machine, 
rolled out about a quarter of an inch thick, then cut and docked at one 



184 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

operation, if a machine is in use. If hand-made, each biscuit has first to 
be moulded round, then rolled out with a rolling-pin, and then docked. 
Biscuits made by hand are credited with being freer and "shorter" than 
those made on a machine. The sign of readiness when the biscuits are 
baking is an unyielding hardness on being pressed with the fingers, although 
To know when correct observation in this respect really only comes with 
Biscuits are practice. These biscuits are much better when baked on 
^ ^ ' the oven bottom than on tins, although in modern factories 

the latter method is always adopted. If ship biscuits are intended for long 
voyages, or to be kept a long time, baking only is not sufficient to prevent 
their becoming mouldy or maggoty: for such circumstances they have to 
Drying to ^^ very thoroughly dried for a week or two in a hot room, 

prevent Mould. It may interest those who are not familiar with the biscuit 
trade to know that from 1 cwt. of flour used not quite one hundred 
pounds of baked biscuits are obtained. 

A biscuit called sometimes cheese biscuit and sometimes water biscuit 
is made much in the same manner as above, only a better quality of flour 
Water or ^^ used, and the biscuit is made very thin, and, as a rule, 

Cheese Biscuits, smaller. This sort of biscuit, if hand-made, is pinned out 
to about one-eighth of an inch thick, either singly or in sheets, and docked 
two at a time, and drawn asunder afterwards. They should be baked on 
tins, and must be thoroughly dried; otherwise they are very tough. In 
Yeast in these, as in the ship biscuits, there are no ingredients used but 
Biscuits, flour, water, and salt. Another sort of cheese biscuit, which still 
finds favour, is made with a quantity of yeast in it. For a sack of flour 
8 or 10 oz. of yeast is used, and after dough is made, it is allowed to lie 
about two hours before being braked. The mode of handling is similar to 
that already described, but these biscuits are made small and thick, and in 
consequence of the yeast are lighter than the other, usually in fact rather 
hollow in the centre. 

Cabin biscuits are made with flour, water, and salt, but in addition they 

contain about 1 oz. of lard to each lb. of flour used. This biscuit is made 

about 3 in. in diameter, and belongs essentially to the 

hand-made sort. The dough should be stiff". It is either 

pinned out quite flat or slightly cupped, so that it can, if desired, be spread 

thick with butter and cream cheese. 

Cupped biscuits proper belong to a richer class, and for these the 
following may be used: flour (soft and white), 16 lb.; butter, or half butter 
and half lard, 1 lb,; sugar, 12 oz.; ammonia, about ^ oz.; 
"PP* ■ water, 2 qt. and 1 pt. This biscuit is made as already 

described, but cannot under any circumstances be cut out in a machine; 
each biscuit must be chafl'ed separately. The cupping operation is done by 
a dexterous use of an ordinary thin biscuit rolling-pin. The success of the 
operation depends on the dough being tough and more or less elastic, and this 
latter property is produced by the manner in which the biscuit is moulded. 
The operation of cupping cannot be described properly, but it consists in 




FORMER PRESIDENTS, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 
OF MASTER BAKERS 

Thomas Fletcher, bom in Liverpool in 1850, started business 
in his native town, but subsequently removed to Birmingham, 
where he conducts a large and successful bakery. He took an 
active part in founding the National Association of Master Bakers, 
of which he was President in 1887 and 1902. He has been a 
member of Birmingham Town Council since 1904. 

Alfred Taylor, of the Old Red House, Bath, was born in 
Wiltshire in 1840, and served a good part of his apprenticeship 
in the bakery of which he is now proprietor. At one time he also 
had a farm and a cheese and butter factory. He was President 
of the National Association in 1893-94, and is a Director of the 
Trades, Markets, and Exhibitions, Limited. He is an Alderman 
of the City of Bath. 

Robert Kirkland, born at Airdrie in 1853, gave up banking 
to join his brother in a baking and catering business in Liverpool. 
This business is now known as the Liverpool Vienna Bakery 
Company, Limited, and has Mr. Kirkland as Chairman. Mr. 
Kirkland is also Chairman of Fletcher's, Limited, Birmingham, 
He was appointed Baker to Queen Victoria, with authority to use 
the Royal Arms, and he is also baker to the Emperor of Austria 
and the King of Spain. He was President of the National Associ- 
ation in 1890-91. 

Henry Matthews, bom at Chudleigh, Devonshire, in 1821, 
learned the baking trade under his father. After a brief London 
experience' he started in business in Plymouth in 1845, ^^^ '^ now 
head of Matthews & Sons, Limited, the largest baking business 
in the county. He was President of the National Association 
in 1891-92. He has been a member of Plymouth Town Council 
and a Poor Law Guardian. 




THOMAS FLETCHER 

(Birmingham) 



ALFRED TAYLOR 

(Rath) 




ROBERT KIRKLAND 

(Liverpool) 



HENRY MATTHEWS 
(Plymouth) 



FORMER PRESIDENTS, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER BAKERS 



HAND-MADE HARD BISCUITS 185 

not allowing the pressure of the pin to pass the centre of the biscuit at 
each stroke, so that while the edges become evenly thinned down, the centre 
remains thick, this thickness being removed at the last few strokes of the 
rolling-pin. The elasticity of the dough draws up the sides under such 
circumstances. The original purpose of cupping biscuits was evidently to 
admit of their holding a supply of jam or stewed fruit when about to be 
eaten. This recipe makes a good short-eating biscuit, the pinch of ammonia 
helping in some degree to make it light also. 

Abe7"nethy biscuits have a reputation associated to some extent with the 
name of the famous physician. They really belong to the shortbread class 
of goods, and among all the hand-made biscuits are likely longest Abemethy 
to remain in public favour and to survive the rivalry of the Biscuits, 
machine-made article. The following is the recipe which has more than a 
local reputation: flour, 8 lb. (fine French); butter, 1;^ lb.; lard, 1^ lb.; sugar, 
1^ lb.; water, 1 qt. and 2 gills. If the flour is suitable and care taken in 
handling the dough — for with so much butter, &c., it requires some care — 
this biscuit should spring well and be plump without any Aerating Agents 
other raising agent; but if, on account of the flour or other in Biscuits, 
cause, there is a tendency to flintiness, then ^ oz. bicarbonate of soda and 
I oz. cream of tartar may be used with advantage. Owing to these biscuits 
being rich, the dough is liable to crack when braking or when moulding; 
on this account it must not be too stifl", nor should it be made with less than 
the proper quantity of water. This last precaution may seem superfluous, 
as the instruction not to make the dough stiff" seems to imply that the 
proper quantity of water is used in its preparation; but this 
dough may really appear to be quite soft, even with a good 
deal less than the proper water, owing to the butter and lard melting with 
the heat of the hands. But dough made soft by this means is so short that 
it cannot be moulded at all, and presents when baked a rough and greasy 
appearance. 

In Glasgow, where Abernethy biscuits are made by hand on a very 
large scale even in the bread factories, the mixture used is as follows: 
flour (soft), 16 lb.; sugar, 2 lb.; lard, 5 lb.; butter, 1 lb.; and qj^^ ^^ 
2^ qt. water. This mixture, it will be noticed, contains more Abemethy 
fat than the other given above, and fat, too, that has a low ^'scuits. 
melting-point. In consequence of this it is necessary to allow the dough 
to stand a long time before it is moulded into biscuits; otherwise these 
crack all round the edges. This dough is so greasy, espe- Effects of 
cially in warm weather, that it can hardly be chaffed at Excessive Fat 
all, but the pieces have to be rolled like buns, and then '" Dough, 
pinned out smartly. These biscuits have the quality of eating very short — 
in fact, not unlike ordinary shortbread. 

Bath Oliver biscuits are a speciality still made in great quantities 
in Bath, and in which some of the leading houses take Bath Oliver Bis- 
great pride. There is considerable diversity in the recipes cuits. Fermented, 
used as well as in the mode of manufacture, but all agree in making the 

VOL. I. 24 



186 SPECIAL BEITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

biscuit very thin and rich with butter only. Some use yeast in their 
manufacture, others do not. Rub 2 lb. of best butter into 8 lb. flour, 
and make into a stiff" dough with about 2| pt. milk in which 2 oz. yeast 
and 2 oz. sugar have been dissolved. If the butter is quite fresh, f oz. 
of salt may be added. Allow this dough to ferment in a moderately 
Mode of warm place for about 1| hour, then brake the dough till its 
Handling, skin is quite smooth. Allow it to rest for a little, then reduce 
the dough in pieces on the rollers till it is about % in. thick. Cut these 
out, generally two layers at once; dock with a plain docker and allow 
to stand for some time; then bake in a very warm oven. 

A biscuit equally good and less troublesome is made without any 
yeast whatever. For this the quantities are: flour, 8 lb.; butter, fresh 
and sweet, 2 lb.; salt, | oz. Dough is made with about 1 pt. water, 1;^ pt. 
Bath Olivers, milk, and 3 eggs. The dough is handled in exactly the 
Unfermented. same way as for the other hard biscuits, resting after being 
made, and again after braking. When they are cut out and docked the 
biscuits are baked in a hot oven. 

Seed biscuits are an old-fashioned sort made as follows. A dough 

much softer than for the other kinds of hard biscuits already described 

_ , _.. . is made with 8 lb. soft flour into which 1 lb. of lard has 
Seed Biscuits. . . , , , 

been rubbed; 1 oz. yeast is mixed with nearly 3 pt. water, 

and I oz. salt is also dissolved in it. The whole is then made into 

dough, about 2 oz. caraway seeds being mixed at the same time. This 

dough is allowed to prove for about 2 hours, after which 2 oz. carbonate 

of ammonia is thoroughly mixed in it, and the dough then braked till 

smooth. It is allowed to lie to recover, and is then cut out and moulded 

or chaffed into biscuits in the ordinary way, then pinned out quite 

flat to about ^ in. thick, docked, and baked on baking sheets. On 

account of the absence of sugar these biscuits are quite white, but they 

are very light and open in texture. If butter is used instead of lard, 

and 1 lb. of sugar added to the mixture and the seeds kept out, the 

biscuits are then called butter shorts. The old method 

of working was to make dough for these biscuits with a 

small quantity of home-made barm. In the recipe given above ordinary 

dry yeast is substituted and the time the dough requires to lie very much 

shortened, but the article produced is much the same as that made by 

the old method. 

Bakers do not now make cracknel biscuits; yet they can still be made 

profitably, and their preparation may serve to fill in odd time. The 

following recipe and method will be found satisfactory. Make 

a smooth dough with 3^ lb. flour, 6 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, 

and about | pt. water, in which is dissolved | oz. carbonate of ammonia. 

Brake this dough till smooth, then allow to rest for an hour or so. 

Roll out then to about \ in. thick, dock with a plain and wide-toothed 

docker, and cut with a 4-in. cutter, afterwards cutting each of those rounds 

into four three-cornered pieces; or the biscuits may be cut round or oval 



HAND-MADE HAED BISCUITS 187 

with a small cutter and afterwards docked with a docker of the same 
shape but of smaller size. When the biscuits are cut out, a large pan of 
boiling water should be ready, and as many of the biscuits g^jjj^^ Process 
dropped into it as will conveniently cover the surface. 
These will sink to the bottom when first put in, but will soon rise to 
the surface, and if allowed to boil a little will gradually acquire a 
cupped form. When this occurs they have been boiled sufficiently. The 
biscuits are then lifted out with a wire spoon. Better still, cooling and 
a strainer may be fitted in the boiling pan something like Soaking, 
that in an ordinary fish-kettle, by means of which the whole of the 
biscuits boiled at one time can be lifted out at once. They are transferred 
from the boiling water into another pan of cold water, in Baking 
which they are allowed to lie for two hours, after which they Cracknels, 
are strained and baked on wires in a hot oven. When done they should 
be cupped, glazed on the outside with a bright colour, and soft, dry, and 
creamy-white inside. 

A good selling, rather soft biscuit, is made as follows. Use 8 lb. flour 
(soft), 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. carbonate of 
ammonia, and about f oz. ground ginger. These are rolled 
round and then flattened out on the baking sheet by hand. They spread 
slightly and spring thick in the centre. 

The following is the recipe for a favourite rice biscuit: 4 lb. soft flour, 
1 oz. bicarbonate of soda, 2 oz. cream of tartar, 1^ lb. sugar, 12 oz. butter, 
12 oz. lard, 8 oz. ground rice, 8 eggs, and 1 pt. milk. The 
dough is comparatively soft, is not braked in any way, but 
is divided into pieces the size of the biscuits. These are rolled round 
and flattened out slightly on baking sheets and baked in a warm oven. 
They spread slightly, and crack on top. 

Parliament Cakes or Parleys are another form of old-fashioned biscuit 
or cake, which was at one time used principally to give to children who 
came to the baker's shop for the household bread. The dough parliament 
was invariably made in large quantities, and stocked in barrels Cakes: Old 
to be worked up afterwards as required. The aerating agents '^^^^o*^- 
were pearlash and alum, used in the proportions of two of the former to 
one of the latter. The dough was made with about 2 lb. of treacle or 
syrup to each 3 lb. of flour, and to that about 1 oz. of pearlash and 
^ oz. of alum would be added. This dough was not worked up until it 
was two or three weeks old, and on occasions could be kept for a year. 
The modern method of making parleys is much less troublesome. Use 
8 lb. flour, 2 oz. bicarbonate of soda, no acid, 2 oz. ground Parleys: 
caraway. The dough is made stiff" with golden syrup: New Method, 
about 5 lb. may be required. No acid is used, because the syrup already 
has some in its composition. This dough is at once rolled out into long 
sheets about -J in. in thickness, and cut out with either a round or oblong 
fluted cutter— docking is not necessary — and placed on baking sheets 
slightly greased and splashed with water. They are washed over with 



188 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

water and baked in a comparatively cold oven. They are quite soft when 
Baking and baked, although an impression made on the surface to try 
Keeping. them will disappear if baking is sufficient. They become quite 
hard and crisp on cooling, and will retain this crispness if kept in a closed 
tin. 

Scotch ParJcins belong to the same family as Parleys. For these the 

mixture is as follows: medium cut oatmeal, 3 lb.; soft flour, 3 lb.; 

bicarbonate of soda, 2 oz.; lard, 8 oz. ; sugar, 12 oz.: golden 

Scotch Parkins ' c^ ' •• o 

syrup, 4 lb.; mixed spice, 2 oz. Dough is made in the 
usual way, and the pieces for the separate biscuits at once broken off. 
These are rolled round, then well flattened out on a baking sheet slightly 
greased and splashed with water. They are then washed over with egg, 
and half of a split almond is placed in the centre of each. These spread 
a good deal, and present a marly or cracked appearance all over the top. 
They exhibit the same signs of being sufficiently baked as parleys, but 
like them also become hard when cold. They also soften if exposed to 
the air, especially if the atmosphere is at all moist. Another recipe for 
Scotch Parkins is: 3 lb. oatmeal, 3 lb. flour, 4 lb. treacle, 12 oz. lard, 12 oz. 
sugar, 1 oz. bicarbonate of soda, 1 oz. cream of tartar. The mode of mani- 
pulation is the same as above. 



CHAPTER XXXII 

MEDICINAL AND INVALID BREAD 

Many who are troubled with indigestion are advised by medical men to 
€at bread only that has been well toasted. The toast is at times difficult to 
Toast for obtain, and the requirement of these people soon degenerates 
Indigestion, {^^q ^ supply of ready-made toast in the form of rusks. The 
old-fashioned rusks of English confectioners' shops were called tops and 
bottovis, and were usually made from plain stale buns left from day to day. 
These were cut in halves and toasted on baking sheets in the oven, being 
Tops and ^s a rule turned over so that both sides were equally well 
Bottoms, browned. The bottoms were, of course, of nearly the same 
thickness all over; the tops were rounded on one side. When the sale 
for rusks is considerable, it is better to make a special dough as follows. 
Make a ferment by whisking together in a jar 1 pt. milk, 1 pt. water 
— together at 100° F. — 4 oz. sugar, 8 oz. flour, and 4 oz. yeast. Allow 
this to stand in a warm place for about 20 minutes, when it will have 
risen and dropped. Make a soft dough then with 4 lb. flour (home-milled 
patent), 4 oz. sugar, i oz. salt, 8 oz. butter or lard, and 
3 eggs. This dough is then allowed to stand about 50 
minutes, and is weighed into pieces about 1 lb. each, and moulded into 
long flat shapes and placed in long tins, so that the dough is about 1 in. 



MEDICINAL AND INVALID BREAD 189 

thick. This is proved at an ordinary bakehouse temperature and not 
forced by steam in any way for half an hour, and then baked in a hot 
oven. This produces a number of very light, long square loaves about 2 in. 
deep and about 3 in. wide. These are turned out and kept for one or two 
days till quite stale, and are then trimmed so as to make them all of equal 
thickness. They are next cut through the centre, then into little oblong 
pieces about 3 in. long, 1 in. wide, and ^ in. thick. These pieces are set out 
neatly and close together on clean baking sheets, and nicely browned in a 
warm oven. 

In making rusks in this way, it is necessary to take care that the dough 
is not overproved; otherwise it cuts very crumbly. To prevent blisters, 
and ensure a fine and even texture, the dough is better baked ^^ Prevent 
under covers, the width and depth mentioned above, and Crumbling 
about 14 in. long; or if only 1 in. deep, then the loaves will ^" isters. 
not require splitting before cutting into rusks. As malt extract gives 
flavour to rusks, besides adding to their nutritive value, 1| oz. of extract 
may be used instead of the sugar in the dough mixed with the ferment 
after the latter is ready; or it may be prepared by mixing with 4 oz. of 
flour and ^ pt. water, and kept for an hour about a tem- Malt Extract 
perature of 150° F., then added to the dough at the same time ^" Rusks, 
as the ferment. If this is done, | lb. more flour will be required in the 
dough. 

In Germany and Holland the trade in rusks is very large, and these 

really take the place of our biscuits. There the usual shape is round. The 

rusks are made wholly with milk and of soft dough. Each German and 

little piece, sufficient for two rusks, is rolled round and Dutch Rusks. 

pinned out flat, then baked under an iron cover about 3| in. diameter 

and f in. deep. This cover has one or more holes in it to allow the 

escape of air as the dough proves. When baked, the rusks are like thick 

soft biscuits the full thickness of the little covers under which they are 

baked. Thej^^ are kept in a cool room for about two days, and are then cut 

horizontally by an ingenious machine into two pieces. These are dried in 

the oven, as already described. Another form is made in ., , r »/, , 

. "^ , . . Mode of Makmg 

long bars, which are then cut into very thin oblong slices, Rusks in 
and after toasting are covered on top thinly with water Germany, &c. 
icing or whipped white of egg, and then with different flavoured sugars. 

It is common for customers to stipulate that the rusks should not be 
sweet. In this case the sugar in the above recipe may be left out of the 
dough but still retained in the sponge, the quantity of salt being increased 
to 1 oz. in the dough only. 

Customers who are troubled with diabetes in any form are most par- 
ticular as to the kind of bread they eat, and although this is, as a rule, 
obtained fiom the few bakers who make a speciality of ^j^ Diabetics 
such bread, the ordinary baker is very frequently asked need Gluten 
to supply local customers. As this disease requires that ^'■*^^- 
neither sugar, nor any starchy matters which the organs can transform 



190 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

into sugar, should be used as part of their food, and as, at the same time, 
it is necessary that they should obtain as much proteid matter as possible, 
Preparing gluten bread is usually recommended to them, and the baker 

Crude Gluten is asked to supply it. It is possible to make gluten bread 
°^ ^^^ ' of a sort by washing out the gluten from ordinary flour. 

When this is to be done, take about 1 lb. dough and manipulate it with 
the fingers in a pail of clean cold water, teasing it out and squeezing 
alternately until it seems to be free from starch. When this is done, the 
Use of Starchy water with the starchy sediment may be used to mix with 
Sediment. ^}jg ordinary water for bread. The gluten after washing 

should be broken into pieces about 2 oz. Each piece is then rolled well 
between the hands to press as much as possible of the water out, after 
which it is placed on a greased baking sheet and allowed to stand for 
Moulding about half an hour before being placed in the oven. When 

Gluten Loaves, ready, the loaves are best baked under covers, and in an 
oven at a temperature about 360° to 380° F. Pieces about the size men- 
tioned will require nearly an hour to bake, and they should not, if possible, 
be touched until quite done; otherwise they collapse and are very tough. 
The use of the covers gives the gluten loaves the pale colour so much 
desired. When sufficiently baked, and they should be quite hard on the 
outside, the loaves are placed on one side till cold. They are then cut into 
thin slices in the same way as for rusks, and toasted quite dry. This 
Toasting toasting is necessary, as the inside is rather stringy and 

Gluten Bread, tough. When the slices are cut, and before toasting, they 
can be dusted over with salt or any desired flavouring substance, as the 
gluten itself has a very insipid taste. 

It is sometimes required to use eggs and butter in the gluten bread. 
Disadvantages ^^^ ^^® incorporation of these things is impossible in the 
of using gluten directly washed from the flour as described above. 

Fres G uten. Yqj. other reasons it is not quite satisfactory to wash the 
gluten direct in this way; amongst other things, the resultant bread is 
Why Gluten usually rather close round the outside with large holes in 
is Allowed the centre. It is to get over this trouble that the pieces of 
*° '^" gluten are allowed to lie some time after moulding. 

Fortunately there is no need to wash gluten direct from flour, as there 
are several quite satisfactory brands of gluten flour now being sold. With 
gluten flour the following quantities and method will be found to give 
Rich Gluten good results. As Only small quantities are usually required 
Bread. g^^ once, 18 OZ. of gluten flour is mixed with | oz. salt, and 

12 oz. butter finely rubbed into it; two eggs are beaten up, and mixed 
with about If pt. of lukewarm water. The whole of these ingredients are 
then thoroughly mixed together. As directed above, it is better for the 
baker without special appliances to make the gluten loaves only small. 
How to This dough is allowed to lie for half an hour or so, then is 

Handle Gluten, broken into pieces, say, of 3 oz. each. If the hands are 
kept wet, there is no difficulty in handling the dough. These pieces are 



MEDICINAL AND INVALID BREAD 191 

rolled round and placed on a greased baking sheet, and a bread pan placed 
over each; then allowed to lie for half an hour before baking. The oven 
temperature, as already stated, should not be above 380° F. Three-ounce 
loaves will take at least two hours to bake, and should not Time Gluten 
be touched meanwhile. After baking, the loaves are cooled, Rolls take 

. to Bake 

cut up, and toasted as described above. It is usual to have 
a quantity of yeast given in recipes for gluten bread, but yeast adds 
nothing to the lightness but seems rather to make it more Yeast of no Value 
sodden. The time of lying after moulding results in '" Gluten Bread, 
softening the gluten, so that when placed in the oven it retains a con- 
tinuous texture, free from very large holes, and ensures its becoming 
very light and bulky. A loaf of 3 oz. will form a ball size of 3-oz. 
about 4 in. in diameter. Gluten Roll. 

Diabetic patients have to eat such insipid things that they are glad to 
take anything by way of a change from gluten bread. There are mixtures 
of prepared bran and gluten, and of almonds and gluten, Gluten and 
made into biscuits, for which the following recipe may be Almond Biscuits, 
used. Two pounds gluten flour, through which ^ oz. bicarbonate of soda 
and ^ oz. cream of tartar have been sifted, is thoroughly mixed with 3 lb. 
fine almond meal. One pellet of saccharin is used to sweeten. This will 
require about 2 pt. milk or water to make into a moderately stiff dough. 
It is allowed to lie for some time, then pinned out about -J- in. thick and 
docked, and then cut either with a knife or cutter into oblong pieces, and 
the biscuits baked in an oven about 400° F. Variety may be given to the 
biscuits by adding ground ginger or aniseed or vanilla. 

Bran biscuits are made by mixing 1 lb. of prepared bran with | lb. 
gluten, and making this into a firm dough, using a little salt. 
This dough is pinned out, docked, cut, and baked as above. 

A very expensive but really palatable small almond cake, suitable for 
those who can afibrd the price, is made as follows. The materials used are 
1 lb. ground almonds, 20 eggs, and 12 oz. butter. The almonds Rich Almond 
and the yolks of the eggs are rubbed into a smooth paste in Cakes, 
a mixing bowl, and 8 of the egg whites incorporated and the butter also 
worked in. The remaining 12 whites are well beaten to a froth, and 
lightly mixed with the paste formed from the other ingredients. The 
cakes are made very small, and are either baked in patty-pans, which must 
be well greased, or on greased baking sheets as drops. 

For all the goods described above genuine gluten flour should be used. 
There is an American product offered to the trade as gluten spurious 
flour which contains a large proportion of stai^ch, and is Gluten Flour, 
therefore not suitable for those who require bread free, or nearly free, 
from starch. The presence of starch in the gluten flour is Test for starch 
readily detected by the aid of a drop of weak tincture of ^" Gluten Flour, 
iodine: the intensity of the blue colour produced when that is mixed with 
the flour paste will roughly indicate the amount of starch present. 

Sometimes bakers are asked to supply cooked flour either for babies' 



192 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

food or for older people with weak stomachs. Flour contains all the 

T, .-• , X. . inojredients suitable for human nourishment, and in such 
Babies Food. . 

proportions, as meet the needs of the body; but the gluten 

of flour, although its most nourishing part, is too tough and tenacious, 

even when baked in bread, to be easily assimilated. If, however, the 

flour is carefully cooked in a dry state, the tenacity of the gluten is quite 

destroyed, and the flour so treated makes a smooth soft paste witli warm 

Effects of water or milk, which has a sweet pleasant taste, and is easily 

Baking Flour, digested and assimilated by even the weakest stomach. To 

prepare flour in this way it is only necessary to spread it in a layer about 

1 in. thick on a clean baking sheet, and keep it in an oven about 360° F. 

(after the bread is all baked is a suitable time) for half an hour or more. 

Method of turning it frequently while the baking is proceeding. The 

Baking Flour, effort should be to bake it thoroughly without browning. 

This flour should then be sifted through a very fine sieve, and kept in a 

close tin or made up in packets for sale. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

BRITISH VIENNA BREAD: MOULDING OF ROLLS 

Although crusty bread has been prime favourite in most parts of 

England for many years, it is curious to note that the manufacture of 

the crustiest of all varieties, Vienna Bread, has only become general 

within the last twenty-five years or so, although there were a few 

establishments in London at an earlier date where it was made in small 

quantities. Even now it is not extensively used as the bread of the 

household table, but is in greatest demand in restaurants and hotels, 

particularly in those conducted or managed by foreigners. But there is 

little uniformity in the method by which this kind of bread is made, 

and even less uniformity in character amongst the sorts sold as Vienna. 

Because this bread is usually glazed, although this is not an essential 

condition, it is considered justifiable by some bakers to call rolls or 

loaves Vienna if they are only glazed, although they may be made 

from sweet dough and the glaze applied as egcr wash. The matter is 

further confused by the custom of calling all bread Vienna which is 

French baked and glazed in an oven filled with steam, some of this 

and German bread — indeed, the bulk of it — being made after French or 
■p 11 
° ^' German methods rather than after those of Vienna. The 

former are made from very soft dough, more or less toughened by 

mixing, and generally with water only; the latter with at least half 

milk, the dough being stiflfer, and the rolls or bread therefore closer 

in texture, than the first. Those who make Vienna bread in Britain 

are for the most part German bakers, and in consequence the German 



BRITISH VIENNA ROLLS 

1. Cut or Potato Rolls. 

2. Seed Shoes. 

3. Crescent or Horse-shoe Rolls. 

4. Floured Batons. 

5. Batons. 

6. Kaisers. 

7. Shells. 

8. Seed Rolls or Salt Sticks. 
Q. Twists. 



BRITISH VIENNA ROLLS 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 193 

method generally prevails. This bread, like French, is very light, the 
crumb being tough and open, while the crust, especially if only water 
has been used, is of a bronze -brown colour, and is inclined to be very 
tough when a day old : if part milk has been used, the crust is German 
lighter in colour and more of a golden-yellow shade. Vienna Method, 
bread of the finest sort, as made in Vienna and by those in this country 
who employ Vienna bakers, is smaller in bulk; the crumb Real Vienna 
is close, but short and not at all tough, and the crust is crisp Rolls, 
and free, and remains in this condition even when the bread is a day 
old. 

It is usual to make a sponge for Vienna bread, whether of the soft 
or firm dough sort, but in many cases this preliminary stage is left out 
and straight dough made, and with quick-working yeast and plenty of it 
excellent results are obtained in this way. It is not necessary, as some 
suppose, that only Hungarian, or, as it is sometimes called, Vienna flour 
should be used in this kind of bread; indeed, for the soft dough sort, 
already referred to, Hungarian flour by itself is not very suitable, but is- 
better mixed with at least half of much stronger flour. Even for the 
bread made from stiffer dough unmixed Hungarian flour produces very 
small close rolls, although they may be very sweet and bright, so that for 
this sort also a mixture of stronger flour is desirable. The piour 
class of bread-making flours of top grades now made by our for Vienna, 
leading mills makes excellent Vienna bread without any ad- 
mixture whatever of Hungarian. There is, in fact, no need to pay the 
high price of the latter if a top grade British-milled flour is used. 

For Vienna rolls of the light sort, such as are sold in restaurants, the 
following quantities and method may be used. Make a batter sponge 
with 1 gal. water at 100° F., 8 lb. strong flour, and 6 oz. yeast. It is- 
not necessary to use either salt or sugar at this stage, although the 
addition of 1 oz. of sugar will cause the sponge to be ready a little 
sooner. The sponge is made in the usual way. The yeast is first mixed 
with about 1 pt. of the water, so as to make it into a thin paste, free 
from all lumps. This is then mixed well amongst the whole of the 
water, and the sugar, if the small quantity suggested is used, is also 
dissolved in the water. The flour is then mixed in and well beat up 
into a very tough batter with the hands, flapping it over and over for 
the purpose of toughening it, as well as to incorporate as much air in-, 
it as possible. A batter sponge of this kind may be very conveniently 
made in a cake machine, if there is one available. If 
made by hand, the best utensil in which to allow it to 
ferment is a deep small oak tub, or an ordinary lard pail, if large 
enough, suits very well. The sponge should be scraped from the sides 
of the tub in which it has been made, and then very thickly dusted 
over the top with flour. This flour will rise as the sponge rises, and it 
serves very well to keep the top of the sponge from becoming cooler than 
the remainder, as well as to prevent a skin from forming. The sponge 

Vol. I. 26 



194 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

should as a rule be allowed to drop, which will generally occur in about 

forty-five minutes to one hour after the sponge has been made. For 

dough, weigh on to the table 14 lb. flour, either home-milled patent, 

^, or half Hungarian and half spring wheat American 

Hungarian Flour. -nv i ^ 1,1, • ^ 

patent. Dissolve 4 oz. salt and 1 oz. sugar in 1^ qt. of 

water at 104" F., but do not dissolve these substances until after the 
water has been used to rinse the tub in which the sponge had been fer- 
menting. Make the dough very thoroughly by pinching and overlapping, 
80 that it becomes quite elastic. This dough is kept in a moderately 
warm situation, the temperature being as nearly as possible the same as 
that of the dough itself, and with a small piece of this size it is not 
difficult to find a corner in the bakery where this condition can be 
obtained. It is almost needless to say that the dough should be kept 
covered up to prevent skinning. In about half an hour after making 
Siz f R 11 ^^® dough will be ready for kneading, and in half an hour 
after that it should be ready for scaling. About 3 oz. is 
the usual size for a roll to be sold in a restaurant for a penny, but 
owing to excessive competition, and the desire of restaurant -keepers for 
a larger number for a shilling, the size varies considerably. 

It is usual, where many rolls are made, to have a bun-divider (fig. 14) 
for sizing the pieces, as a time-saver from weighing them either singly or 
_ . in pairs. The divider cuts out thirty pieces at once; so for 

3-oz. rolls the dough would require to be weighed into pieces 
weighing 5 lb. 10 oz. When cut out the pieces are usually rolled round 
first and well dusted with flour, and allowed to lie for ten or twelve 
minutes before moulding. When moulded the rolls are kept as' " green " 
as possible on the skin; that is, free from flour or cones. This soft dough 
is best suited for making ordinary round rolls that are slit across the 
top with a very sharp knife or an old razor blade just before setting in 
the oven. The instruction given that the rolls are not to be dusted in 
Method of ^^Y ^'^7 ^-^ter moulding — unless they are intended for the 
Proving. variety that are floured and partly white after baking — is to 
ensure that they will take a proper glaze in the oven when steamed, for 
dust or dry skin prevents glazing, however much steam is used. To the 
same end the rolls are not proved on dusted boards, but on boards on 
which are laid fine cotton cloths. On these the rolls are proved all 
upside down. No dust whatever is needed on those cloths, and however 
soft the dough may be the rolls will not stick to the cloths, while the 
surfaces next the cloth will keep soft and moist. If the boards on which 
the rolls are proving are kept away from draughts, as they should be, 
it is not necessary nor advisable to place any covering over the rolls, at 
least none that is in contact with them, such as either a damp or a dry 
cloth. When ready for the oven the rolls have to be turned over before 
being placed on the peel. 

Following exactly the same method, a better-class roll is made by 
using only 2 qt. water in the sponge, with 4 lb. flour, all the yeast, and 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 195 

1 oz. sugar; then, when making dough, use 2 qt. milk and 1 qt. water, with 

1 oz. sugar, 4 oz. salt, and 18 lb. flour. While this dough _ „. 

» ' ' -11 Fancy Shapes, 

is quite as soft as the other it will not seem so sticky, and 

is more suitable than that made wholly with water for making such 
fancy shapes as Kaisers, Cannons, Batons, &c., but it is still rather soft for 
producing satisfactory Crescents. 

If it is more convenient to make bread from straight dough the 
following quantities may be used: 40 lb. home-milled patent grade flour, 
8 oz. yeast, 5 oz. salt, 3 oz. sugar, 5 qt. milk, and 4 qt. water, both j^^jj^ ^^^^ 
together at 100^ F. The dough may require a pint or so more Straight 
water if the flour is specially strong. After the dough is well °"^ ' 
made and kept in a warm place for an hour, it should be ready for knead- 
ing. After standing another hour, or an hour and a quarter, it should be 
ready for scaling. The manner of manipulating the rolls after moulding 
does not differ from that already described. On account of milk being 
used in this dough the rolls look very bright, and have a sweet pleasant 




Fig. 17.— Ends of Vienna Loaves Proving in Cloths 

flavour, while the dough is stable and stands a full proof, so that the 
rolls are large and light. They may require thirty to thirty-five minutes 
to prove sufficiently. 

Vienna bread as made in Vienna is, as already noticed, made from 
rather firmer dough than that described above, and with other variations 
in the mode of treatment. It is invariably made with a True Vienna 
sponge, an exceptionally large quantity of yeast is used, and Bread, 
the temperature of the dough is kept comparatively low. For bread of 
thifi class the following ingredients and method should be used. Make 
a tough batter sponge by hand with 10 lb. flour, 1 gal. water at 
100° F., 2 oz. sugar, and 10 oz. yeast. Beat this sponge well, stretching 
and folding as much as possible, until it becomes quite elastic, then cover 
up with a thick layer of flour and allow to stand till it drops. This 
will occupy about forty to forty-five minutes. Dough is then made with 
28 lb. flour — half Hungarian, and half home-milled patents — 1 gal. new 
milk about 80° F., and 5 oz. salt. This dough will be about 76° or 78° F. 
when finished, and should be kept as near that temperature as possible 
while proving. It should be kneaded once, and ought to be ready for 
scaling in about an hour and three-quarters after making. The method 
of handling after the pieces are cut out is the same as that already 
described. In this case, however, owing to the dough being stiffer and 
colder, a longer time must be allowed for the rolls or loaves to prove. 
The same plan is invariably followed of proving all rolls and loaves upside 
down on cloths, without any dust; in the case of loaves the cloth is drawn 



196 



SPECIAL BEITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 




Fig. 18.— Basket for Proving Long Loaves 



up between each pair, forming really a double cloth partition, so that they 
do not touch at all, somewhat as in fig. 17. When the loaves are made 
very long or in ring shape, they are then proved in cloth-lined baskets 
specially made for the purpose (figs. 18 and 19), so that when sufficiently 
proved they can be turned over on to the peel without being handled at 
all. The shape called Crescents, or Horse Shoes (see Plate, British Vienna 
Rolls, No. 3) is generally made from special dough containing a proportio^ 
of butter — part of the dough just described, with 1 oz. of sweet butter per 
pound of dough thoroughly incorporated in it. Much care has to be taken 

that the butter used in bread 
is perfectly sound and sweet. 
There being no pronounced 
flavours of other sorts to 
mask that of the butter, the 
slightest rancidity can be 
easily detected, and the use 
of butter in such circumstances, instead of being any improvement, is 
really offensive. After moulding, crescents are best proved straight, and 
twisted round into horse-shoe shape only when about to be placed in the 
oven, and this shape is much more satisfactory when baked on tins than 
if baked on the oven bottom. 

There is a variety of soft roll made from Vienna dough similar to 
that used for Crescents, only this dough is further enriched by the 
addition of 1 egg for each 4 lb. of dough used. The shape 
of these soft rolls is invariably round, with either a cut on 
the top or else a split in the centre by being pressed with the side of 

the hand. They are also proved on 
cloths upside down and baked on tins, 
but without steam, in the oven. 

Besides the methods and mixtures 
given above there are all manner of 
variations of these, not in essentials, 
but introduced to please the fancy of 
individuals. It is still possible, how- 
ever, to have very fine and satisfactory 
dough and yet to produce very poor Vienna bread. For some of the shapes 
a good deal of skill and practice are required to obtain good results. The 
rolls may be spoiled by either under or over proof, but probably the most 
critical stage of all is the baking. Ordinary shapes, such as round or oval, 
or long like batons, any baker can produce without special experience, and 
as these, when nicely glazed and baked, look quite as well as the more 
fancy sorts, while occupying a good deal less time, it is better, when com- 
petition is so keen, to keep to the plain forms. Those of them that require 
to be cut should be cut clean and moderately deep, and to that end an old 
razor blade fixed in a plain wood handle is a convenient tool to use for 
the purpose, or, failing that, a shoemaker's knife, which usually takes and 



Soft Rolls. 




Fig. 19.— Basket for Proving Ring Loaves 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 197 

keeps a very keen edge, will suit. It assists matters, especially when the 
rolls are soft, if, while the cutting is proceeding, a jug of warm water 
is placed near, and the knife or razor blade is wetted from time to time. 
This expedient prevents the dragging which sometimes disfigures soft 
rolls cut with a blunt knife, or even with a sharp one used dry. It is 
necessary, however, on occasions to make the more elaborate shapes, espe- 
cially if customers demand them, particularly the shapes known as Kaisers 
and Crescents. It is not easy to give instructions as to how these should 
be moulded, but as there are many who have no opportunity of seeing 
them made, and must practise with only such instructions as can be given 
in a book, the task must be attempted. 

For all sorts of rolls the usual method is to roll the pieces round first, 
and to dust them well to prevent sticking, but when they are cut out on 
a table dividing machine the preliminary rolling is not really to Mould 
necessary. After the pieces have proved a little they are ready Kaisers, 
for moulding. In moulding a Kaiser roll (see fig. 20) the first operation 
is to flatten out the piece of dough with the palm of the hand, or the 
beginner may use a rolling-pin for the purpose, although it is as well to 
learn to do without this. The piece of dough is then folded over (stage 
1) about one-third its diameter; the thumb of the left hand is placed on 
top of the dough at the doubled part, and the other corner folded over 
so as to enclose the point of the thumb nearly up to the first joint, and 
so that the thumb points towards the centre of the roll (stage 2). The 
thumb is retained in this position, while with the side of the right hand 
the piece of dough is pressed down. The roll is turned slightly towards 
the operator and another part of the dough folded over, the corner being 
drawn about half an inch over the centre, and the dough again pressed 
along the fold with the side of the right hand (stages 3, Number of Points 
4, 5). This operation is repeated until five folds are made. ^" Kaiser Roll. 
At the last one the thumb is withdrawn from the position made by the 
first fold, leaving a cavity there, into which the last corner of the dough 
is inserted, this corner being forced inwards, and in towards the centre 
by the thumb of the right hand (stage 6). In moulding this roll there 
will be, after each fold is made, a corner formed by the folded dough. 
This corner must in each case be brought over about half an inch past 
the centre of the roll, the purpose being to make the folds in the 
finished roll cross each other a little past the centre, and not merely 
radiate from the centre like the spokes of a wheel. The difficulty the 
beginner finds with this shape of roll is in getting a neat cause of 
finish, when the thumb is withdrawn and the last corner of ^^^ Finish, 
dough inserted in the cavity. The trouble arises usually from the first 
fold being made too large, or from the last piece being too large. This 
difficulty is readily overcome by careful practice. The ex- How Experts 
pert moulder does not fold over the pieces with the deliber- Mould, 
ation described above, but is able by a deft movement of the side of the 
right hand, which is only acquired with practice, to lift over a piece of 



198 



SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 





1st stage 



2nd stage 





4th stage 





5th stage Gth and final 

Fig. 20.— Stages in Moulding a £aiser Roll 



the dough and fold it into its proper position, using one of the fingers of 
the left hand, the thumb of which is in a way imprisoned, to hold each 
piece as it is folded, until the next piece is placed in its position. The 
accompanying rough sketches will show the various stages of the roll 
formation as described. See also Plate, British Vienna Rolls, No. 6. 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 



199 



When the rolls are wanted in the form of shells the moulding operation 
is much more simple. In this case the piece of dough is beat out quite 
thin, on one edge only, with the heel of the right hand (Ist To Mould 
stage). The thick piece of the dough is then rolled up in the Shells. 
usual way between the hand and the table, until the rolled part is about 
half an inch from the thinned extremity (3rd stage). With the palm of 
the hand it is pulled over so that the thinned part will lie flat on that 
rolled (4th stage), but is not pressed tightly on it to make it adhere too 
firmly; the purpose of this treatment is to allow the thin part to curl back 
slightly from the body of the roll during baking. The accompanying 





1st stage 



2nd stage 




3rd stage 



4th aud tinal stage 



Fig. 21. —Stages in Moulding a Shell Boll 



sketches (fig. 21) will show the progress of the moulding operation, while 
No. 7 on the coloured plate of British Vienna Rolls shows good samples 
of the finished rolls. After the roll is moulded it is placed. How to Prove 
closing downward, on a cloth-covered board to prove, then ^^^ Bake Shells, 
baked with closing upwards, so that the thin piece opens outwards and 
curls slightly as already described. This shape of roll has a nice appear- 
ance when baked. It can be handled very quickly after a little practice, 
and does not require very much experience to learn to mould. 

Probably the most popular shape of roll as made in this country is the 
Crescent, or, as it is usually called, the Horse Shoe (see Plate, British 
Vienna Rolls, No. 3). For this roll the piece of dough has ^ 

• JT o Crescents 

to be pinned out with a rolling-pin. To facilitate this opera- 
tion it is better to pin several pieces out about half the size they are 



200 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

wanted, then to allow them to rest for a little before going over them 
a second time to complete the size. By rolling out at two stages instead 
of attempting to do so at one the work is done easier and quicker, because 
How to the toughness inseparable from fermented dough is not so 

Prepare Dough, troublesome when this method is used. When the dough 
for the roll has been pinned out, until it is about eight or nine inches long, 
four inches wide at the centre, tapering to about two inches at the ends, 
and the whole about one-eighth of an inch thick, it is ready for moulding 
(see fig. 22). The piece of dough is rolled up for about half an inch at top, 
Size of Sheet and the thick part thus formed then fixed (2nd stage) by 
for Horse Shoe, pressing with the hand. The left hand is used to pull and 
stretch the small sheet of dough, while with the palm of the right hand 
the other end is little by little rolled up at the same time that it is also 
pressed out from the centre, so that the rolled piece becomes wider, while 
the sheet of dough forming it becomes narrower by stretching, the result 
Moulding of this double action being to cause graduated ridges to be 
Horse Shoes, formed all along the roll (3rd stage), while the latter is thin 
at the two ends and thicker in the middle. The roll as thus finished should 
be proved on cloth, with the little piece where it was finished downwards, 
but the roll placed quite straight on the cloth. When sufficiently proved 
Finish of the side next the cloth is turned upwards. The little tag 
Horse Shoe, showing the finish should be placed so that its point is towards 
the interior of the crescent (4th and 5th stages), and care should be taken 
that these tags all point the one way on the individual rolls, so that all are 
alike. The rolls are of course turned round into crescent shape when 
placed on the baking sheet on which they are to be baked. 

A shape called the Cannon (see fig. 23) is made much in the same way 
as the crescent; but instead of the dough, as in the latter case, being pinned 
Moulding o^t into a broad tapering sheet it is for the former shape made 
Cannons, into a long string-like piece about sixteen inches long, then 
flattened out to about an inch and a quarter wide, and an eighth of an inch 
thick (1st stage). In this case the rolling is not done with the palm of 
the hand, but from both ends of the ribbon of dough at once (2nd stage), 
the thumbs and fingers being used, and the dough pressed in the centre of 
the mass as it grows, while being rolled towards the middle of the ribbon. 
At the same time this ribbon is stretched as the operation proceeds, so 
that in the end the piece at the centre will be as thin as possible. This 
shape of roll may be baked with the two rolls straight and together 
(3rd stage), in which case the piece of dough between is snipped with a 
knife or scissors before baking, or one of the rolled pieces may be twisted 
round and placed so that it forms a right angle with the other (4th stage). 
The bottom part of the upright half is then pressed with the hand to fix 
it in this position. The twisting of the roll should not be done till it 
is about to be set in the oven. 

The illustrations of Vienna rolls given on the plates in this volume will 
indicate the shapes into which rolls may be made. Except those already 



VIENNA FANCY BREAD— I 

1. Salzwecken (salt rolls). 

2. Mundsemmel (fancy or tasty roll). 

3. Salzstriezel (salt twist). 

4. 5. Mundbaunzerl (mouth roll). 

6, 8. Weisse Wecken (white rolls). 

7. Extrawecken (extra rolls). 

9, II. Mohnstriezel (poppy-seed twists). 

10. Extrabrot (extra bread). 




VIENNA FANCY BREAD-1 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 



201 











Vol. I. 



26 



202 



SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 



described few of these require any special skill in their manipulation. 
Reference has, however, been made to the general practice of allowing 
Purpose of these rolls to prove upside down on cloths without any dust 
Using Cloths, q^ ^^e latter. When the rolls are only small ones, the cloths, 
which should not be too coarse, are spread flat on the boards; when the 
rolls are large, the cloths, as already described, are drawn up so that there 
is a cloth partition between the pieces. By this arrangement the rolls can 
be proved in the open, without the aid of steam or other heating agent; 



2ud stage 





3rd and final stage 



Another Form 



Fig. 23.— Stages in Moulding a Cannon Roll 



the side next the cloth, if the rolls are only protected from draught, keeps 
soft and moist, and is therefore in the condition in which it will readily 
Must not be glaze when steamed in the oven. Rolls proving in this 

Wetted with Steam, -y^^y should not in any circumstances be placed in a 
prover containing naked steam, as the condensation of the steam will cause 
them to stick to the cloths. Care has also to be taken that rolls are not 
allowed to prove too much, or they fail to retain the neat shape given at 
moulding, do not open out as they should, and are in fact what bakers 
call blind. On the other hand, if not sufficiently proved they are small 
and pinched in appearance, close in texture, and inclined to be tough. 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 203 

CHAPTER XXXIV 

BEITISH VIENNA BREAD: GLAZING AND BAKING 

After careful moulding and proving the next point of importance, and 
in fact the most important point of all, is concerned with the baking of the 
rolls, especially that part of the baking process during which qj^^jj, j^Q^g 
glazing is effected. It may be stated at once that the glaze 
on rolls is produced as soon as they are placed in the oven, or at least as 
soon as this can be effected under the conditions which obtain there. Those 
conditions are that the oven atmosphere should be saturated or super- 
saturated with steam, and that the bread to be glazed is completely enve- 
loped by this atmosphere. It may be explained, for the benefit of those not 
very familiar with scientific matters, that any atmosphere Water-saturated 
is capable of holding a large quantity of water vapour in Atmosphere, 
suspension without depositing it in the form of water, and that the quantity 
of water or water vapour thus held depends on the temperature of the 
atmosphere; the rule being, roughly, that an increase of temperature raises 
the point of saturation of the atmosphere, that is, the point at which it will 
hold no more without throwing it down as water. On the other hand, the 
reduction of temperature of an atmosphere already Effect of Temperature 
saturated causes condensation of some of the invisible °" Saturation Point, 
water it had contained. It is on the principles here stated that the glazing 
of rolls depends. As soon as the comparatively cold dough is set in the 
oven with its steam-saturated atmosphere, the air in proximity to the cold 
rolls is considerably cooled and deposits some of its moisture on them, 
really covering them with a film of water. The Condensation caused 
condition required for glazing seems to be that this ^V ^°^^ Dough, 
deposition of water must be continued for some little time after the rolls 
are placed in the oven, or at any rate that their skins are not allowed to 
become dry until the glazing process is actually completed. That it is 
completed shortly after the rolls are set can be seen if one or two rolls are 
taken from the oven as soon as they can be handled. Al- ^^ ^^^^ Bakine 
though these rolls will be quite white and soft, they are Stage Glazing 
properly glazed, only requiring to be thoroughly dried and '^ effected, 
coloured as the baking proceeds. What actually happens is, that the film 
of water deposited on the outside of the roll quickly boils this skin, and the 
gelatinized starch of the flour thus produced gives the glazed appearance. 

It has been already stated that if the rolls are allowed to acquire a dry 
skin while proving, they will not afterwards glaze properly whatever the 
quantity of steam in the oven. The same result follows if ^^ Glazing is 
they are allowed to stand in the oven for only a minute or Difficult in an 
so in a dry heat before steam is let in. It is this that ^'^'''^'y o^«"- 
makes glazing of rolls so difficult in an ordinary oven. Even if there is 
a moderate supply of steam, part of this escapes every time the oven 



204 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

door is opened, and this part is not merely a quantity taken out of the 

front near the door and leaving the remainder of the oven full from the 

crown to the sole, but its escape causes the whole of the steam, or, at 

least, the saturated atmosphere, to lift several inches from the bottom, 

and it therefore leaves the rolls for a little free from the moist atmosphere, 

and they are subjected to a dry heat which causes the quick formation 

of crust. On this account in an ordinary oven with a swing door it is 

hardly possible to obtain a sufficient glaze on rolls with such steam - 

generating apparatus as a pot of boiling water, or steam sets, or even 

one of the patent generators which produce steam from cold water let 

into a hot chamber. None of these apparatus produces steam quick 

Boiling Water enough to compensate for the very large loss each time 

Supplies in- the door is opened; but in an ordinary oven it is quite 

sufficient Steam. ii n ti i-pn n, ■, 

easy to glaze rolls and bread it the source of steam supply 

is a pressure boiler. It has been suggested, not very wisely, that the 

secret of the success of pressure steam is in its temperature, which, on 

account of the pressure in the boiler, is hotter than steam at ordinary 

atmospheric pressure. Thus, while the latter is about 212° F., steam at, say, 

80 lb. pressure is about 310° F. But the steam is only at this temperature 

Heat of Steam while it is under pressure, that is, while it is still in the 

under Pressure, boiler, or in the pipes directly connected with it, but as soon 

as the pressure is relieved, as soon as the steam emerges from the pipes, 

it not only loses its comparatively high temperature but becomes colder 

than ordinary steam at atmospheric pressure. The explanation of this fact 

is, that as soon as steam under pressure leaves the pipe it expands suddenly 

and performs work, or uses its energy in pushing back the aii-, and as the 

energy in any given amount of steam is quite definite in quantity, therefore 

what it uses as energy to perform work it loses as energy manifested as 

Heat of Ordinary heat, and is therefore colder. In an oven, steam from 

and Pressure Steam a boiler is not under pressure; before it can be used 

w en e ease . ^^ glaze bread it has already left the pipes connected 

with the boiler, and cooled somewhat in the manner just described, although 

the high temperature of the oven atmosphere prevents the same degree 

of cooling as in the open air. Since it is undoubtedly true that bread 

cannot be glazed in an oven with an ordinary door by a small amount 

of steam, cannot in fact be glazed unless the oven has a direct supply from 

a pressure boiler, it is interesting to enquire as to the conditions which 

obtain under such circumstances. As already mentioned the one essential 

thing is that the oven atmosphere be thoroughly saturated with water 

vapour, so that the least local reduction of temperature will cause that 

vapour to change into water and deposit on the nearest cold surface. But 

in an oven with a swing door which opens down to the oven bottom, it is 

Condition of necessary to open this door to admit each peelful of rolls. 

Glazing m Oven, ^^(j although the opening may only be for a few seconds, 

the aperture is so large that a great quantity of the contained steam 

escapes and the whole saturated atmosphere of the oven may rise a few 



VIENNA FANCY BREAD— II 

1, 3, 4, 5. Butterschnitten (butter slices). 

2, 18, 20. Pariserkipfel (Parisian crescents). 

6, 7, 8, 30. Miirbe Laibchen (soft loaves or crisp loaves). 

9. Pragerspitz (Prague spike). 

10. Miirbes Weckerl (soft roll). 

11. Mohnstangerl (poppy-seed stick). 

12. 13. Gedrehte Kipfel (twisted crescents). 

14, 17, 26, 27. Miirbe Kipfeln (soft crescents or crisp crescents). 

15, 16. Giraffeln. 

19. Miirber Wecken (soft roll). 

21, 25. Miirbe Stangerln (soft sticks). 

22, 24. Baunzerl. 

23, Markus (mark). 

28; 32. Radetzky Kipfeln (Radetzky crescents). 
29, 31. Murbus Striezel (Murbus twists). 




VIENNA FANCY BREAD-ll 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 205 

inches from the oven bottom, this space being filled by comparatively dry 
air from outside, and if the steam-laden atmosphere is only half an inch 
above the surface of the rolls it is quite ineffective for glazing. The distance 
into the oven at which this rise of the atmosphere will take place depends 
on the time the door is allowed to stand open, and on the rate at which 
fresh steam is entering the oven from the boiler. It is evident that if the 
steam can be made to enter as quickly, or nearly as vvhy Pressure 
quickly, as it leaves by the open door, then the atmos- Steam Glazes Bread, 
phere of steam will hardly lift from the oven bottom at all. This is really 
the condition which obtains when steam is injected into the oven at about 
80 lb. pressure. Such a large quantity of water as steam enters in such 
a very short time that the saturated atmosphere of the oven is kept close 
down to the oven bottom, and therefore completely envelops the rolls, even 
when the swing door has to be frequently opened and shut; hence the 
glazing effects. 

When nothing but an ordinary oven is available and Vienna bread 
requires to be baked in it, there is a certain method of working which 
must be followed to secure the desired effect. A boiler of „ * r^i 

rlow to Glaze 

at least 40 gal. capacity should be available, and capable of in an Ordinary 
bearing in normal circumstances a pressure of 100 lb. If a ^^"' 
very large boiler is available, it is not necessary to have steam at such 
a high pressure. A word may also be said here about the manner 6f 
placing the steam ingress pipe in an oven of this type. The usual thing 
is to place it along one side and running from front to back pogj^joj, ^f 
of the oven, but greater economy is obtained by having two Steam Pipes 
ingress pipes controlled by a single tap and placed near the *" ^^"' 
back of the oven, running for some distance towards the door along 
both sides. The pipes should be perforated on top — next the crown 
of the oven — as they are a constant source of trouble by dripping water 
if perforated underneath. Before the setting of bread is started, care 
should be taken that the boiler is nearly full. Water in the pipes 
connecting the boiler with the oven should be drawn off by the tap 
usually provided for the purpose. When everything is ready, the rolls 
or loaves are placed on a broad peel, which should be about as large 
as the oven door will admit, and with the side of the rolls uppermost 
that was previously next the cloth on the proving board. The tap 
admitting steam to the oven is then turned on about one-third its total 
length until the oven is completely filled with steam. As soon as this 
is done the man who is handing the rolls on to the peel quickly opens 
the door, while the setter places his peelful of rolls in the oven and with- 
draws the peel smartly, when the oven door is at once closed. This 
operation is repeated as each peelful of rolls is set. In an oven with 
an ordinary movable light it is impossible to push the light in and 
out each time the door is opened and shut, and unless the oven is one 
with a patent light, it becomes necessary to set the rolls in their places 
virtually in the dark. This is awkward at first, and usually causes 



206 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

a waste of oven space, but after a little practice greater accuracy is 
obtained without much trouble. As soon as the oven is filled with 
rolls, steam is turned on full, until it begins to come out at the bottom 
of the oven door, when it is reduced again. 

After the rolls have been steamed in this way for about three minutes, 
the steam is turned off, as there should then be quite sufficient from the 
baking bread to keep the oven atmosphere completely saturated. If the 
bread is in the form of rolls, about ten minutes will be sufficient time to 
allow them to bake in the steam atmosphere. At the end of tha,t time 
the steam damper is drawn to allow all the steam to escape, and the baking 
of the rolls is completed in a dry heat. About eight minutes longer, or 
eighteen minutes in all, will be sufficient time for 3-oz. rolls, if the initial 
Time Rolls ^^^^ of the oven was about 480° F. If the steam is not allowed 
are Baked, to escape as described, the rolls, even if they seem hard and well 
baked when they come from the oven, will quickly soften and become quite 
tough, and it is to prevent this fault that steam is allowed to escape and 
baking finished in a dry heat. When the loaves are long ones, or at least 
are large, and when only one oven fitted with steam is available, it is a 
common practice to steam, and therefore glaze, those loaves in one oven, 

Why Rolls ^^^ ^^ '^^^^ ^^ ^^^^y ^^^ ^® handled to remove them to 
become Soft another oven in which the heat is dry. In such circum- 
an oug . stances the loaves take on a very dark colour in the second 
oven if its temperature is high. This expedient very greatly increases the 
baking capacity of the steam oven, as otherwise it would be occupied for 
a long time with each batch of large bread. 

The method of glazing bread described above may be followed with a 
side-flue oven if the furnace doors are moderately tight, but if this is 
the only type of oven available an arrangement should be provided, such 
as a large fire-block, to cover the end of the furnace as it enters the oven. 
This plan of baking in steam may be adopted successfully with ovens of 
Scotch type and with steam -pipe ovens. On account, however, of the 
large quantity of heat stored in the material of the Scotch oven, it has 
a larger baking capacity when steam is used than the steam-pipe sort. 
The latter cools very quickly when such an excessive quantity of naked 
D -olate steam is injected into it. Excellent results can be obtained 

Oven for Vienna in a draw-plate oven with an even smaller quantity of 
^^^ ' steam than in the peel sort, but even in a draw-plate it is 

not easy to glaze Vienna rolls by the aid of the small apparatus with 
which they are sometimes fitted which produces steam from cold water. 
"When a draw-plate is in use, the procedure is to fill the plate with the 
rolls or loaves, keeping the oven door close down meanwhile; then, while 
the plate is being filled, the tap controlling the steam from the boiler is 
turned on slightly, so that the oven will be quite filled with steam by 
Washing the time the rolls are all in position. If the rolls have become 
with Water, in the least dry or skinned, they may be lightly brushed 
or sprayed with water before the plate is run into the oven. When 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 



207 



everything is ready the steam is turned on about half full and the door 
lifted just sufficient to clear the tops of the rolls; then the plate is 
quickly pushed in and the door clamped down tight, at the same time 
that the steam is turned on full for about three minutes. At the end 
of that period it is turned off, and the baking continued, in the steam 
already in the oven and that produced by the bread itself, for ten 
minutes, after which the whole of the steam is allowed to escape, and 
the baking for the last eight minutes or so finished in a dry heat. 
This procedure is in all respects nearly identical with that described for 
adoption with peel ovens, but the draw-plate gives the great advantage 
of keeping the oven quite closed till the rolls are all in position, then 



Damper. 




^ 



EtI;l:i:■:;■^.^V;i^;^;■;?V^■.•::».?f^v.•^•;(^;i:>•;^■.■.;;;.; 



Line 



Fig. 24.— Vienna Oven 



Vienna Oven. 



immersing the lot at once into a steam-saturated atmosphere. There is 
much less trouble, a smaller quantity of steam suffices, and the glaze is 
more pronounced than in a peel oven. Still, there is a good deal more 
steam needed in any of the usual bread types than in a proper Vienna 
oven (fig. 24). The essential thing about the latter is that it 
retains any steam passed into it even if the oven door is open. 
This advantage is obtained by having the oven bottom and top sloping up- 
wards from the door, and by having the latter sliding up and down verti- 
cally. By this arrangement the oven chamber is wholly at a level higher 
than the bottom of the oven door when the latter is open. When the 
atmosphere of this oven is saturated with steam it remains so, and in the 
first instance only a very small quantity of water or steam is required 
to efifect this purpose, a few cupfuls of water being, in fact, sufficient if 
the oven itself is nearly steam-tight. With an oven of this type the use 
of a small boiler is an advantage, but no great quantity of steam is 



208 SPECIAL BRITISH CLASSES OF BREAD 

needed for any one batch, so that the boiler with very little attention is 
capable of supplying steam for batch after batch. The small quantity 
of steam needed, besides making for economy on its own account, has 
the same effect in another direction, because it does not cool the oven 
Quantity ^^^'^'Ij ^o much as does the large quantity used in an ordinary 
of Steam oven. With an oven of this kind the same precautions have 
to be taken as when other ovens are used with steam during 
baking. The bread must be very thoroughly dried; otherwise the crust 
will become soft after it has been taken from the oven a few minutes. 
In the case of ovens that are not steam-tight there may be no necessity 
to draw off the steam from the rolls to finish in a dry heat; but in ovens 
quite tight this is expedient. Where a large quantity of long loaves are 
required it is necessary to keep them in the Vienna oven only till they 
are glazed and set, and the baking may then be finished in an ordinary 
oven with a dry heat. It is, of course, only possible to build an oven 
with a sloping bottom for Vienna bread when there is a reasonable 
prospect that there will be sufficient trade to keep it going for that 
kind of bread alone, as the sloping bottom makes it unsuitable for bread 
of the ordinary sorts. (A full description of various designs of this and 
other types of ovens will be given in a later chapter, with drawings.) 

There are thousands of bakeries where it is impossible, from the want 
of steam, or facilities for producing it, to make Vienna rolls or bread by 
any of the methods described, and yet, to give variety to the window 
display, or to supply bread for a special occasion or for a special customer, 
most bakers are anxious to be able to make rolls that have at least a 
presentable likeness to the real article. To this end more or less simple 
expedients have to be resorted to. The very simplest, and not the least 
Egg Glaze effective, is to carefully wash over the rolls or bread after they 
for Rolls. are properly proved with ordinary egg wash. The rolls are 
moulded as neatly as possible in the manner described, and proved on cloths; 
then w^hen ready they are turned over and placed evenly on tins, after 
which they are washed and baked in a moderately warm oven in the usual 
way. The wash should not be wholly egg, but may consist of two parts 
egg to one part milk. It is necessary to break the grain of the yolk 
Preparing thoroughly and destroy by whisking the fibrous nature of the 
Egg Wash, white of the egg before mixing with milk. A soft brush 
should be used for washing over the rolls; otherwise they wnll be streaky 
and look far from enticing. Rolls or loaves that are washed in this way 
are best baked on tins, for, if baked on the oven bottom, the under part 
appears dry and coarse, while the upper part is bright and glossy. When 
Why Baked baked on tins the rolls flatten out slightly on bottom. If this 
on Tins. jg ^ fault it can be got over to some extent by heating the tins 
highly before placing the rolls on them, then setting them in the oven 
quickly. When this is to be done it is better to lay the rolls first on 
a board to wash them, and place them on the hot tins afterwards; 
this prevents the tins from cooling too much before they are again in the 



VIENNA FANCY BREAD— III 

1. Brioche. 

2, 8. Gallatschen. 

3. Gedrehte Brioche Stangel (twisted Brioche stick). 

4, 5, 6. Theestangel (tea sticks). 

7, 9, 19, 21. Dessertweckerl (dessert rolls). 

13, 16. Briochen Formstangel. 

10, II, 14, 15. Dessertlaiberl (small dessert loaves). 

12, 17. Karlsbader Brezel (Karlsbad crackers). 

18, 22, 25, 27. Briochekipfel (Brioche crescents). 

20. Briochestriezel (Brioche twist). 

23, 26. SioWe sometimes called Weihnachtstolle (Christmas 

currant bread). 

24, 28. Brioche Markus (Brioche Mark). 



1 




VIENNA FANCY BREAD— 111 



BRITISH VIENNA BREAD 209 

oven. Rolls that have been glazed with egg have an appearance not unlike 
that obtained by steam, but the resemblance ends there. The crust is soft 
and has not the same crispness nor the sweetness of rolls character of 
baked in steam. Egg wash may also be used for large Egg-glazed Rolls, 
loaves, but those are best baked on the oven bottom. After proving 
thoroughly on cloths the loaves are turned over and carefully glazed 
with a soft brush, and are cut only after they are placed on the peel or 
on the draw-plate. 

Instead of using egg wash, which is relatively expensive, a cheaper 
wash may be manufactured from either wheaten or corn flour, preferably 
the latter, as it is easier to prepare free from lumps. This cheap Wash 
wash is identical with that described for use on plain crusty ^°'^ Bread, 
bread, only made a stronger jelly. For this purpose 1| oz. of wheaten 
flour or 1| oz. of corn flour to 1 pt. of water is used. The most satisfactory 
way of preparing this is to mix the whole of the flour and water together 
into a thin milky fluid, then boil, stirring during the process, in a saucepan 
of water until the paste becomes brownish in colour and thickens. This is 
allowed to cool, then it is well stirred until it becomes a thick Preparing 
paste and its jelly-like nature destroyed. Owing to its thick- Starch Wash, 
ness this paste is not very suitable for use on small rolls, as they so readily 
move about under the brush, and are in consequence very liable to be 
streaky, but it suits very well indeed for larger loaves. These are man- 
ipulated and proved in the usual way, but are given a smooth coat of 
the prepared paste before being placed on the peel and before cutting. 
This application is not sufficient, however, to effect the why Rolls 
necessary glaze. In the same way as described for become streaky, 
rye bread the loaves must be drawn from the oven after they are quite 
set, but before baking is completed, and washed over a second time, then 
returned to the oven. If the latter is moderately warm this second applica- 
tion is generally sufficient to produce the proper glaze, but if not it is only 
necessary to wash over with a little clean water when baking is quite 
completed to secure that end. Bread glazed with gelatinized starch paste 
in this way may be made to appear quite like that glazed with steam; 
indeed, glazing is effected in both cases in much the starch Glaze com- 
same way. When bread is steamed the outer skin of pared with Steam, 
the dough is scalded and its starch gelatinized; in the other way just 
described the gelatinized skin is, as it were, prepared separately and 
smeared on with a brush. The paste -glazed rolls have neither the 
crispness nor the sweetness of the steamed. The former incline to be 
harder and drier, owing, no doubt, to the heat of the oven being dry during 
the whole time of baking. When, however, Vienna bread is made only 
for show purposes or for special orders, when no proper facilities are avail- 
able, glazing in this way with paste is as good an expedient as any. 

There is another method of preparing small quantities of Vienna rolls 
by actual steaming and without any special wash. Glazing in this case 
is effected with steam. If some rolls, moulded and proved as already 

Vol. I. 27 



210 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

described, are placed on an ordinary flat baking sheet, are well splashed 
with water, and are then baked in a hot oven under inverted bread tins, 
Steaming these rolls will take on the characteristic glaze of Vienna 

under Covers, bread. As soon as the glaze is produced, which will be when 
the rolls are in the oven about ten minutes, the baking may be completed 
without the covers. The rolls will have all the appearance and taste of 
proper Vienna rolls, except that they will be somewhat flat and have sharp 
edges at the bottom, with a tendency there to hardness. Matters are im- 
proved by heating the baking sheet well before placing the rolls on it, and 
using hot water for splashing. This expedient is, of course, only suitable 
when a very few rolls have to be made. For larger quantities special tins 
with lids which are more or less steam-tight may be used. Those generally 
■Glazing in use for baking cream buns are very suitable, or those now 
in Boxes. gQ^^j £qj. baking exhibition crusty bread; but whatever sort of 
tin is in use it is better that the deep part should form the lid, so that 
laefore the steam can escape it must completely fill the tin and therefore 
envelop the rolls. In the case of the cream bun and the other tins already 
alluded to, this condition is best obtained by using the lid of the tin as the 
bottom on which to place the rolls, and the body of the tin as the lid. By 
•doing this, steam cannot escape until it has reached the bottom. The success 
of this method of baking depends on the amount of water used. There 
must be enough in the tin to quite fill it with steam before the heat causes 
the rolls to skin. On the other hand, if too much water is splashed into 
How to Prepare ^^® *^^ ^^^ effect is to make the rolls hard and their skins 
Rolls for tough. If the tins are reasonably tight it is sufficient 

team oxes. merely to wash over the rolls with water, after placing 
them on the tin, which has previously been heated highly. A very little 
water sprinkled over before the cover is placed on will produce all the 
glaze necessary. As in the other cases it is best to complete the baking 
of the rolls in a dry heat, that is, without the covers. Of all the expedients 
for imitating Vienna rolls, the best results can be obtained by this method; 
and with, two or three tins, used only for baking up to the glazing stage, 
sufficient rolls can be made for an ordinary shop trade. 



CHAPTER XXXV 

CONTINENTAL VIENNA BEEAD 

Bread on the Continent is of endless variety, as far as its composition 
and outward form are concerned; but fancy bread, which figures largely on 
Fashion in ^^^ breakfast tables of the well-to-do classes in Austria-Hun- 
Continental gary, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, and Holland, is 
^^^ ' to a great extent modelled on the Vienna lines. The capital of 

Austria sets the fashion as completely in rolls and fancy bread as Paris 



CONTINENTAL VIENNA BREAD 211 

forty years ago dictated what bonnets ladies should wear. A Budapest 
miller once remarked to the writer, " We in Budapest know how to 
make flour, but if you want to eat the perfect bread you must go to 
Vienna." Without unreservedly endorsing this judgment, it is undoubtedly 
true that Vienna bakers have brought the art of making light rolls 
almost to perfection. All over the Continent the shapes of Perfection of 
rolls peculiar to Vienna are copied, with such modifications Vienna Bread, 
as local taste demands. A Continental wayfarer may look into bakers' 
windows in the fashionable quarters of Berlin, Dresden, Munich, Cologne, 
Brussels, and Paris, and he will see the same kinds of fancy bread as he 
admired in Vienna. 

The illustrations to this article, so far as they are concerned with rolls 
and fancy bread made in Vienna, are reproduced from photographs specially 
taken in that city. This bread was all prepared by Herr The Emperor- 
Josef M. Breunig, of Vienna, who holds by warrant the King's Baker, 
appointment of Baker to the Emperor-King, as his Majesty Francis Joseph 
is officially styled. 

Among the fancy rolls of Vienna none has acquired wider vogue on 
the Continent than the Semmel, a dainty little roll, round in shape, and 
always so moulded that the top has a sort of distant likeness . 
to a sea anemone closed, with wavy lines radiating from the 
centre, which in the anemone would be the closed mouth. This pretty little 
roll is also known in Vienna as a KaisersertiTnel (see Plate, Vienna Fancy 
Bread — IV, Nos. 8, 9, 14, 16), or a Mundsemmel (see Plate, Vienna 
Fancy Bread — I, No. 2). The former description doubtless implies a roll 
fit for an emperor's table, whilst the latter variety of Semmel is The Mund- 
usually small enough for one mouthful. Mund, be it noted, is semmel. 
German for viouth. The Vienna Semmel is supposed to be prepared from 
Hungarian top patents, but diflferent qualities of these rolls are made in 
Vienna as elsewhere. A Viennese recipe for making Semmeln recommends 
the addition to 100 kilos of flour of 3 kilos of brewers' yeast (roughly 6f lb. 
of yeast to 2 cwt. of flour). This mass is doughed by means Recipe for 
of 40 to 50 litres (4J litres go to the gallon) of water and Semmel Dough, 
milk in equal proportions, and the dough is kneaded in the usual way, care 
however being taken to add sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff 
dough. 

Vienna bakers attach a good deal of importance to the temperature of 
the bakehouse; for instance, rolls on leaving the moulding board are 
supposed to be proved for a little while in a temperature Proving Tempera- 
of about 85° to 95° F. before being put in the oven. ^^^^ fo"" Ro"s- 
They are proved on long boards on fine cloths placed on hanging racks 
above the bakers' heads. The poorer the flour (by which presumably lack 
of strength is meant) the higher should be the temperature of the proving 
room. When flour of lower quality is used the dough influence of Quality 
should be stiffer. Not infrequently the so-called Vienna °^ Flour on Rolls. 
yeast is used in place of brewers' yeast. This is a ferment prepared 



212 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

from hops. To 100 kilos (2 cwt.) of high-class flour 12 litres (roughly 

2 gal. 5^ pt.) of this ferment may be added; for poorer flours 2 gal. would 

be ample. This ferment, moreover, should be diluted with 

ir icnri3. Yc£LSt 

25 to 30 litres (about 5^ to 6f gal.) of warm water about 
100° F. The sponge may then be allowed to rise and drop. When the 
sponge has dropped, 25 to 30 litres more of w^arm water may be added, and 
Ferment with sufficient flour to form a firm dough which will not work 
Vienna Yeast, ^qq quickly. Many Viennese bakers prefer this process as 
giving a more stable dough, a point to which they attach some importance. 
In preparing the sponge they are careful to heap up the flour at one end 
of the trough, forming at the same time a hollow in the middle, into which 
the liquid ferment is poured, till the latter has been thoroughly absorbed 
by the flour, an operation which is hastened by pushing down the flour 
in little masses into the cavity. As soon as the water has been thor- 
Method of Mixing ^^g^^y absorbed by the flour the kneading can begin; 
and Kneading this Operation should be taken in hand gently at first, 

°"^ ■ the pressure being increased towards the end. When 

the dough has been worked stiff the warm water can be gradually 
added. Working in the water in this way makes the dough very 
elastic. 

In South Germany bakers who make rolls, such as the popular Wecken, 
of which several illustrations are here given, usually begin making up the 
South German sponge about noon. This is made slack, with flour, barm. 
Methods. ^^^ water, and is allowed to ferment in a rather high tem- 

perature for six to nine hours, when more flour is added. In about an 
hour the kneading is begun, and two hours afterwards the rolls are 
moulded and ready for the oven. As a rule, with 100 kilos (2 cwt.) 
of flour, 60 litres (between 13 and 14 gal.) of water and "25 kilo 
(rather over ^ lb.) of yeast are used. The same kind of roll is some- 
. times made with milk, when the same process is followed, 

except that milk takes the place, in about the proportion 
of one-half, of water. Not infrequently butter is used as well as milk, 
the usual proportion being 1 kilo (2-2 lb.) of butter to 18 litres of milk. 

A characteristic Vienna roll is the Wecken, of which various kinds are 
shown on the plates of Vienna Fancy Bread, I-IV. The name has many 
The Wecken variations, being also written and pronounced in different 
,^°^^- localities, Weckel, Weckle, Weckerl (as in Vienna), Weckchen, 

and Week. The Wecken in its original shape is a small elongated roll 
with rather sharp points — in fact, a sort of miniature Vienna roll, as made 
in London. In Vienna, and over Austria generally, the Wecken is usually 
a plain-shaped roll, without lines or indents. Sometimes there is a strong 
line of demarcation down the centre, as in the Salzwecken (see Plate IV, 
No. 3). We have seen in Germany neatly moulded double Wecken, form- 
German ing two perfect little rolls joined in their whole length. 
Wecken Roll. Sometimes the Wecken is indented at the top with a Maltese 
cross. Like other Continental fancy bread, the Wecken is made either with 



VIENNA FANCY BREAD— IV 

t. Kaiserweckerl (Kaiser roll). 

2. Barches (twist). 

3. Salzweckerl (salt roll). 

4. 6. Kaiserlaibchen (Kaiser loaves). 

5. Mohnkipfel (poppy-seed crescent). 

7, 10. Franzoserln (small French rolls). 

8, 9, 14, 16. Kaisersemmel (Kaiser rolls). 
II, 12. Erdapfel Wecken (potato rolls). 
13, 17. Salzstangeln (salt sticks). 

15, 19. Franzosische Wecken (French batons or rolls). 
18, 20. Wasserkipfel (water crescents). 

21, 23. Patentwecken (patent rolls). 

22. Kaiserwecken (Kaiser rolls). 



1 




VIENNA FANCY BREAD— IV 



CONTINENTAL VIENNA BREAD 213 

or without milk. The Wasserwecken is a plain roll made from an ordinary- 
dough, whilst the Milchweckchen (Plate V, No. 1) is water Wecken 
prepared with milk. Again, an Eierweckel has a golden ^"^ ^^^^ Wecken. 
tinge from the use of eggs, and soda is used in making up a Laugenweckle. 

Another fav^ourite shape of breakfast roll is the Laibel, known in Vienna 
as Laiberl (see Plate, Vienna Fancy Bread — III, Nos. 10, 11, 14, 15). 
This is a small round roll, frequently quite plain, but sometimes with a 
deep cut or crease through the centre. It is also known as 
a Mundlaibel (Plate I, No. 4-5). In Munich a similar kind 
of roll, but of oblong shape, with a very round face, and indented with a 
Maltese cross, is known as a Viezerl. 

Crescents (see Plates, Vienna Fancy Bread, II-IV) and Horse Shoes are 
in great request all the Continent over, and are made up with and without 
milk. In Brussels crescents are made up with a lot of butter, and are 
not at all unpalatable, though we imagine their constant consumption 
would require a sound liver. The crescent is known to the bakers of 
Austria and Germany as a Kipferl or Kipfel. It is made up 
in any number of ways. Twisted, it is known in Vienna as a 
gedrektes Kipfel (Plate II, Nos. 12 and 13). When the horns of the crescent 
are wide apart it is termed a Pariser Kipfel (Plate II, Nos. 2, 18, 20), 
from its resemblance to the croissant of Paris. When the points almost 
meet the name changes to Damenkipfel, or ladies' crescent. We are now 
using the terms current in Viennese bakeries. The Hornchen, which has 
much resemblance to a horse shoe, is found all over the Continent. The 
Plunderhornchen and Nusshornchen are names used by the leading bakers 
of Dresden, and typical specimens of the Hornchen are largely Dresden 
displayed in bakers' windows in Germany and Austria. In the Hornchen. 
capital of the latter country, however, the Hornchen is often known by 
the name of Kipfel. 

All these fancy rolls may be sprinkled on the top with aniseed or 
any other kind of seed. Hence we get KUmTnelbrot, KumTnelwecken, 
and so forth. Both in Germany and in Austria a piece of 
fancy bread which is in considerable request is the Bretzel, 
or Pretzel — the t is sometimes omitted. To form a Bretzel the baker 
takes a string of dough and twists the ends round till they cross one 
another, when they are twined together and then pulled apart, each of 
the two ends being drawn to opposite sides of the circumference of the 
circle which has thus been formed. The Viennese specimens we 
illustrate are good examples of the Bretzel (see Plate, Vienna 
Fancy Bread— III, Nos. 12, 17). The Dresden Plunderbretzel is also 
well moulded. It is worth noting that the ends of a Bretzel are generally 
moulded into snakes' heads. The figure of a curled -up snake is a mystic 
emblem, believed to signify immortality — "that which has no beginning 
or end" — and is said to be thousands of years old. It is not to be supposed 
that the consumers to-day of Bretzeln are mystics in any shape or form. 
These small goods are almost invariably highly glazed, and are usually well 



214 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

flavoured with salt. They are said to be in great favour with purveyors 
of malt and other liquors, who judiciously strew them about the counter as 
Salt Flavour thirst-awakeners. Not that the Bretzel is peculiar in being 
of Rolls. seasoned with salt. In many districts of Austria and Germany 

salt is highly relished as a bread condiment; hence the SalzwecJcen (Plate I, 
No. 1, and Plate IV, No. 3) and Salzstange (Plate IV, Nos. 13, 17), or Stan- 
gerl, which are in such wide request. The latter is a roll shaped like a 
slender rod. 

To describe fully all varieties of Continental fancy bread would take 
more space than can here be spared, but we may call attention to the 
partiality of the Viennese for all kinds of twists. Not only the Kipfel, 
but Wecken, Stangel, and many other sorts of fancy bread are moi-e or 
less elaborately twisted. Good examples are the Striezel and Markus. 
The Briochestriezel is a very elaborate piece of work, as may be seen from 
our illustrations; it is rather cake than bread. See the plates of Vienna 
Fancy Bread. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 

CONTINENTAL COMMON BEEAD: BELGIAN, FEENCH, AND GEEMAN 

It would be a great mistake to suppose that the people on the Continent 
consume only the dainty rolls wdiich are served to tourists at hotels with 
the morning cup of coffee. It is true that Vienna rolls and small goods 
have made the tour of Europe. They have made their way to Belgrade, 
Sofia, and Constantinople, and in the better found hotels of those capitals 
they may be enjoyed in perfection. The masses, however, neither in 
Continental Eastern nor Western Europe, live upon rolls and buns. Far 
Common from it. This is not a political article, but truth compels 

Bread. ^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ British working man is better off' as regards 

his daily bread than nine-tenths of his brother workmen on the Continent. 
This is true both of quality and of price. The best value we have seen in 
bread on the Continent, speaking, that is to say, of household bread, 
w^as in Holland and Belgium. We believe that to-day the price of bread 
in Holland is about the same as in Britain. At any rate a careful com- 
parison of very recent prices has failed to show any essential difference. 
In Belgium bread is tolerably cheap. An import duty, nearly equal to 
2s. per sack of 280 lb., is levied on foreign flour, but wheat is free, and 
the competition of the Belgian millers is severe enough to keep prices at 
a moderate level. The import duty on foreign flour was imposed in 1895 
to meet the bounty-fed competition of French flour. In those days the 
B leian Millers Belgian miller was crying out that he was being ruined 
and French through the French system of granting a drawback to ex- 

ounties. porters of flour. This drawback was regarded in Belgium 

as a virtual bounty, and as the drawback system was then administered 



VIENNA FANCY BREAD— V 

1, 3. Bosniaken (Bosnian loaves). 

2, 8. Grahambrot (Graham bread). 

4, 6. Geschnittene Schusterlaibchen (cut shoemaker's rolls). 

5. Molkinbrot (whey bread). 

7, 9. Schwarzbrot (black bread). 

10, 12. Glatte Schusterlaibchen (smooth shoemaker's rolls). 

11, 13. Croutonbrot (crust bread). 




VIENNA FANCY BREAD— V 



BELGIAN BREAD 215 

in France, we believe this charge was not unfounded. But the duty of 

2 francs per quintal (roughly 2 cwt.) imposed in 1895, had the effect of 

reducing an average import of 630,000 sacks (taking 1889-95) to a yearly 

average of 120,000 sacks (1896-1902). 

That Belgian bread is, however, sensibly lower in price than French 

is made clear by one curious fact. Along the Franco-Belgian frontier 

have spruns: up many considerable bread factories, but all 

. . . Smuggling 

are located on Belgian soil. It so happens that in France Bread on 

dwellers on the frontier are allowed, on crossing the frontier, Belgian 
to bring back duty - free a certain amount of bread or 
flour. This concession, illogical, it must be admitted, in a protectionist 
country, has been made in the interest of the large working-class popu- 
lation who live sufficiently near the Belgian frontier to be constantly 
crossing it in search of work. That the boon thus accorded is very real 
is proved by the large trade done in France by these Belgian frontier 
bakeries; in fact, for years past the French government has been besought 
by millers and bakers alike to put an end to what they describe as " the 
scandal" of this frontier traffic. Oddly enough, the same indulgence 
has been extended to its frontier subjects by the ultra-protective govern- 
ment of Germany. The result has been just the same as in France. The 
Imperial German government has been petitioned by the Association of 
German Millers to stop or restrict the free importation of bread and 
flour across the frontier, but has not seen its way to interfere. 

Belgian Bread 

Returning to Belgium, we find excellent household bread. The loaves 
have a great similarity to bread of the same class consumed in the north 
of France. We never remember having eaten more palatable Belgian 
bread than in some parts of Belgium, which is a great bread- Bread, 
eating country. Though its production of wheat is insignificant (between 
1,500,000 and 2,000,000 qr. per annum), it is a free importer of Danubian 
and La Plata wheats, as also of Anierican, when the latter are in the 
market. The shapes of bread favoured by Belgian bakers are mostly 
elongated; long rolls with diagonal cuts on the top (see Belgian Roll, Plate 
Scotch and Fancy Bread) are much in evidence. Belgian bread is made 
on the same system generally as English, compressed yeast being almost 
universally used. In the mining districts of Belgium the quality of common 
bread is very fine. Miners are everywhere remarkable for Bei„ja_ 
their insistence on the best bread. In their standard of good- Miners and 
ness is almost invariably included a very white loaf; that is °° ^'■^^'^• 
to say, they make a great point of colour. But they are not content with 
mere whiteness. In the mining districts of Belgium much the same kind 
of bread is in demand, so far as colour and strength are concerned, as in 
the Rhondda valley, where the miners, it is said, will have, and are ready 
to pay for, bread a good deal above the average. At St. fitienne, a great 



216 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

French mining centre, there is the same demand for fine, white bread, 
though French millers have not the same choice of strong wheat as their 
Belgian brothers. 

French Bread 

France grows practically all the wheat it consumes — about 43,000,000 
qr.— a duty of 12s. 2d. per qr. of 480 lb. excluding all but 1,500,000 
qr. of imported wheat. French wheat is not unlike British in many 
respects, but is certainly not remarkable for strength. After a wet harvest 
the flatness of loaves throughout the country is very noticeable'. For 
all that it is remarkable what good bread is made in France 
under normally favourable conditions. Such grand domes 
as are quite usual on English household bread are not to be found in 
France, but notwithstanding the absence of strong wheat some well- 
piled loaves are to be seen in Paris and other great cities. Household 
bread is known in France both as pain de Tnenage and pain ordinaire. 
(See Plate, French and Dutch Bread.) The shapes of loaves vary a 
good deal in different parts of France, but in Paris long rolls, more or 
Shapes of l^ss cut on the top, are much in evidence. Another shape 

French Bread, ig a loaf somewhat like a sole, rather flat, and generally 
marked with diagonal cuts. In country districts we have seen large 
round loaves, close in texture and not over-appetizing in appearance. 
Though distinctly stodgy, this bread had the merit of cheapness, the 
price being below that of the ordinary bread to be bought in this 
country. But putting aside farmhouse bread and loaves from the village 
bakehouse, bread in France has been kept in price at a distinctly high 
level during the past twenty years. In the well-to-do quarters of Paris 
the price of bread has in recent years often reached 8d. the quartern. 
Of course this is top price bread, but the official returns of the mean 
price of first-quality bread for all France from 1882 to 1901 show that the 
average of only one year (1900) fell below 30 c. the kilo, which is nearly 
6d. the quartern. In 1900 the average dropped to 29 c, or about 5hd. 
Prices of Paris the quartern. In many of these years the average rose 
Bread. g^g high as 7d. per quartern, and in some years this average 

was exceeded. A pretty French loaf is known as a couronne; it is 
circular in shape, and is moulded at the top in ornamental scrolls, some- 
Avhat like our wedding cakes. We have seen some fine specimens from 
the north - western departments of France. The use of rye bread is 
apparently dying out in France, except in certain parts of the country. 
The rye loaves are usually round and rather flat, with diagonal cuts 
French Rye across the top. The French peasant likes his rye loaf 
Bread. thoroughly baked. Though rye bread and loaves from 

coarsely ground wheat flour are still to be seen in parts of rural France, 
the typical Frenchman prefers a white loaf. Twenty-five years ago the 
peasant was still content, to a great extent, to eat dark bread, but to-day 
things are greatly changed in this respect. The land is now covered 



GERMAN BREAD 217 

■with roller mills from north to south, from east to west, and in small 
villages in typical rural districts white bread is often to be seen. It 
is noteworthy that the cult of brown bread has made little headway 
in France. The mass of Frenchmen have no liking for dark-coloured 
loaves. This may be explained by the fact that French bread in the 
main is of agreeable flavour; French wheat has a good deal of sweetness 
about it, and the bulk of the bread baked in France recalls the best speci- 
mens of English bread made from blends into which entered a generous 
proportion of Norfolk or Cambridge flour. In this land of ours a good 
deal of the popularity of the darker-coloured patent breads seems attribut- 
able to the malt extracts and other preparations with which most of them 
are flavoured. 

German Bread 

In Germany rye bread is still in considerable vogue, and the taste 
for it is by no means confined to the poorer classes. Whatever may 
be his breakfast fare to-day. Kaiser Wilhelm some years German 
ago would have no Kaisersemmeln on his table; such airy ^y^ Bread, 
trifles were not to the taste of this strenuous ruler. His breakfast rolls, 
known in Berlin as Kniippel, were prepared from a mixture of wheat 
and rye flour. These rolls are rather small and round; 
they have somewhat the appearance, minus the sugar, of 
the Berlin dough nuts which are a familiar object in London bakers' 
windows. The Kniippel, however, is smaller than an ordinary dough 
nut. The flavour of rye bread or of bread into the composition of which 
much rye has entered is very characteristic, and perhaps would not 
commend itself to every English palate, although at one time rye bread 
formed a good part of English working men's diet. But tastes, as the 
Romans said, are not a matter of argument. 

With a population of 60,000,000 Germany only raises, according to 
official statistics, between 15,000,000 and 16,000,000 qr. of wheat, as 
compared with some 42,000,000 qr. of rye. On the other hand, the mean 
imports of wheat — of course we are not speaking of the abnormal imports 
of the first half of the 1905-6 cereal year — are about double those of rye. 
It is very clear that rye still plays a most important part in the feeding of 
the German people, though it by no means follows that all the rye raised is 
used in bread-making. Everything points, however, to the conclusion that 
Germans are consuming more and more wheaten bread. A typical German 
dark rye bread is the Pumpernickel of Westphalia. The 
loaves are usually shaped somewhat like a fish torpedo, with ""ipemic 
not too high a dome. On cutting the loaf a very dark colour is disclosed, 
which is to be expected of the coarsely ground rye from which this bread 
is made. In preparing Pumpernickel a certain amount of rye meal is placed 
in a wooden trough and made into a thick paste by the addition of a suit- 
able proportion of boiling water. After a preliminary kneading the dough 
thus formed is left for some time in the trough at a fairly high temperature. 
Vol. 1 28 



218 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

No yeast has so far been used, but in time a certain fermentation sets up in 
the mass, and this may be quickened by a further mass of dough and a small 
amount of barm being kneaded into the first dough. When brought to the 
proper consistency, which should be very firm, the dough can be moulded 
into loaves, which often exceed 6 lb. in weight. The loaves undergo two 
bakings; the first time they are put in the oven they are only kept long 
enough to allow a crust to form and the crumb to set, on which they are 
withdrawn, and each loaf is sprinkled with water on its upper surface. As 
soon as this operation is completed the oven is recharged, great care being 
taken to keep the door tight, and the batch is baked in three to four hours. 
The result is a loaf heavy in more than one sense of the word, but with a 
not unpleasant taste, at least according to the writer's palate. 

Sometimes, we believe. Pumpernickel is made without any barm at 
all. The sprinkling or washing of the loaves when half-baked produces 
the characteristic glaze like varnish. Much the same process used to be 
followed in Prussia in preparing soldiers' bread, known as Kommishrot 
A mixture of rye meal and rye flour was used for Kommisbrot; a sponge, 
of which the basis was about 44 lb. of dough kept over from the previous 
doughing, was the only ferment used for this sort of bread, while to the 
dough a small amount of salt was added. Each loaf was supposed to 
weigh Ih kilo, or about 3j^ lb. 

In some parts of Rhenish Prussia a very black bread is made, known 
Rhenish Black- as Rheinisches Schwarzbrot, or, as we should say, Rhenish 
*"'^*^- Blackbread. Its constituents are rye meal, coarser even 

than that used for Pumpernickel. 

It must not be supposed that all the rye bread consumed in Germany 
is dark. The milling of rye is a great industry in that land and in 
Austria, and large merchant mills have been erected in both countries 
for the production of rye flour of different grades of fineness. Rye flour 
Milling Rye is made by machinery having considerable affinity with that 
Flour. used for flouring wheat, but rye-milling and wheat-milling 

are distinct processes and need separate plants. Not infrequently German 
household bread, known as Haushrot or Tafelbrot, is made from a mixture 
of rye and wheat flour; such bread is termed Ualhweisshrot, or whitey- 
brown bread. We have sampled rye bread made from fine flour which 
cut an excellent colour, but invariably a rye loaf, or a loaf into which 
any proportion of rye has entered, has a characteristically dark -red crust. 
The favourite shapes of household bread, both in Germany and Austria, 
are either round or long, with more or less pointed ends. Sometimes the 
ends are rounded. This shape is very common in Dresden, the Schrotbrot 
being a wholemeal loaf. The round-shaped household loaf may be seen 
in the Vienna Schwarzbrot (Plate Vienna Bread — IV, Nos. 7 and 9). 
Such loaves will often weigh 3 kilos, or over 6^ lb. 




DUTCH BREAD AND ROLLS 

FRENCH AND DUTCH BREAD 



DUTCH BEEAD 219 

CHAPTER XXXVII 

CONTINENTAL COMMON BREAD: DUTCH BREAD 

Though Holland is only a very small country, the bread-making pro- 
cesses are interesting enough to be dealt with in detail. Should an English 
baker visit a Dutch bakery he would be surprised to feel Dutch Method 
the springy, slack doughs made there. As a rule milk is of Bread-making, 
used instead of water to make the dough because of the cheapness of milk. 
Generally the baker gets his milk by contract during the year at the price 
of 5|(i. to *ld. the gallon. The quantity of yeast is also considerably larger 
than in the British sponges, even as long-system doughs are unknown to 
the Dutch bakers. The proportion of yeast is not expressed, as Quantities 
in England, to the sack, but to the kilogram, which is equiva- of Yeast 
lent to 2^ lb. In some districts now the rate is 20 gm. (j^^ oz.) 
to the kilo, and in others even 25 gm. (|^ oz.), or 5'6 lb, to 7 lb. per sack 
of flour of 280 lb. The quantity of salt used is also greater, and chiefly 
at the rate of 41 to 46 lb. per sack. 

The rule that flour takes half its own weight in water to make dough 
is neglected by the Dutch baker. For instance, the stiffest doughs contain 
even 60 per cent liquor, and there is really no limit for slackness, though 
70 to 75 per cent may be taken as the general maximum. It seems rather 
strange to one who is used to the stiff" English cottage dough to imagine 
dough of this slackness, and one is rather inclined to think of a paste. The 
method of making this kind of dough is peculiar to itself. Instead of wooden 
troughs, galvanized-iron ones are largely used all over the country. To 
make the dough a thin ferment containing all the liquor and two-thirds 
of the flour is set; this is allowed to stand some twenty or twenty-five 
minutes, and then the remainder of the flour and the powdered salt is 
worked in. When these are sufficiently mixed, the difficult task for the 
Dutch baker starts. To make the dough tough and springy it wants much 
working. Small pieces of about 10 to 12 lb. are pinched off" Method of 
the main lump by both hands, and beaten and stretched Kneading, 
against the side of the trough. When one little bit is worked enough 
it is thrown into the corner of the trough, and the same operation is 
repeated on the remainder. In this way the dough is worked from 
one side to the other of the trough and back again several times, till 
the experienced baker thinks that the dough is worked enough. To 
prevent the dough from sticking to his hands, the baker dips his hands 
occasionally in a basin of water, to keep them wet all the time he is 
pinching and spreading the dough. The troughs are not dusted to prevent 
the dough from sticking, but are greased or oiled. 

As a rule Dutch doughs feel rather cold; the temperature of the liquor 
is seldom higher than 80°-85° F. Dutch bakers maintain that bread 
baked from dough which has been made from a liquor at a higher 



220 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

temperature than 85° F. never has such a rich golden colm^r as that 
Low Temperature baked from dough of which the temperature of the 
of Dough. liquor was 80°-85° F. / 

The handing up is done in a way similar to that followed in England. 
The moulding or rolling differs somewhat, as the main shape is oblong, but 
this, of course, is done as for English tin bread. 

Bread laws never existed in Holland, and this enables the Dutch baker 
to scale his bread off at his own option. The price of a loaf scaled off 
at 1 lb. 10 oz. to 1 lb. 12 oz., made from so-called milk dough, is about 
2ld. retail. The crust of Dutch bread is darker and more brownish 
than that of English bread, while also the texture is more open. When 
newly baked it is very moist and springy, but it becomes very dry when 
stale. 

The photos illustrating this article will give a better idea of the shape 
and other noticeable qualities and faults. 

The most popular Dutch loaf is the Tin or Pan Loaf (see Plate, 
Dutch Bread, No. 2), as a rule (in a large bakery) made from dough 
a little stiffer than that described above. After the loaves have been 
moulded 12 to 14 in. long, they are proved upside down on a cloth. 
The cloth is raised up between adjoining loaves to prevent them from 
sticking to one another. When proved sufficiently they are cut by an 
ingenious little machine, which has the appearance of a long row of 
pairs of small scissors, worked by two handles at each end. Every 
time after the machine has been used, the scissors are dipped in a small 
tank of oil, so as to prevent the dough from sticking to them, 
and to oil at the same time the different cuts of the loaf. This 
kind of loaf is called Knip Brood (see Plate, Dutch Bread, No. 4), 
which really means bread cut by scissors. 

No. 6 on the Plate shows German or Papped Bread. The broken crust 
is obtained by brushing the tops of the loaves over with a peculiar kind 
German or of paste, consisting of flour, ground rice, yeast, foot sugar, 

Papped Bread, ^nd water. Under the influence of steam, either evolved by 
the bread itself, or introduced into the oven, this paste bursts or cracks, and 
gives the loaves their rather pretty appearance. This paste is made as 
follows. 1 lb. 6 oz. of flour is boiled with 10 pints of water till the paste 
thickens. This is thinned down by the addition of cold water when about 
to be used, so as to spread easily. A raw paste is then made with 10| pints 
water, about 9 oz. yeast, 6^ lb. flour, 8J lb. ground rice, 4 oz. sugar, and 
about 3 oz. melted butter or sweet oil. This raw paste after fermenting a 
little is first spread on the tops of the loaves rather thickly, or at least well 
smeared over them with a brush. Some of the boiled paste is spread on 
top. 

No. 3 on the Plate shows what is called English Bread. Why this 
"English" strange name was given is a mystery, the shape not being at 
Bread. ^ji ji^g ^he chief shape of English bread. Such loaves are as 

a rule baked in couples, as shown in the Plate. 





I. DUTCH RYE BREAD 




3. "ENGLISH" BREa\D 



2. PAN BREAD 




4. KNIP BROOD (SNIPPED BREAD) 




5. DUTCH HOUSEHOLD BREAD 6. GERMAN OR PAPPED BREAD 

TYPES OF DUTCH BREAD 



DUTCH BREAD 221 

Household Bread, illustrated in No. 5 on the Plate, differs somewhat 
from the former. The chief moistening agent is water Dutch House- 
instead of milk. These loaves are set in rows of eight or ^°^^ Bread, 
ten. The two outside ones are sold as crusty, and the inside as crumby 
loaves, at the price of 2<^. per 2 lb. 

The lowest illustration on the Plate of French and Dutch Bread 
shows some that are merely a repetition of the other photos, but there is a 
couple we have not dealt with yet. On the extreme left and right sides are 
specimens of Dutch Brown Tin Bread. Brown bread is usually made of half 
white flour and half wholemeal. The left of the two centre loaves is called 
Schootyes Bread. It is shown clearly on the photo that the loaf schootyes 
consists of small pieces of dough, which, after having been moulded, Bread, 
are joined together. They are proved on long slips of wood, which are 
about the same length as the depth of the oven, and 3 in. in width. When 
they are proved enough, they are set in the oven in long rows lengthways. 
After baking, they look like long bread bars. For Id. or 2d. a certain 
number of these pieces are purchased. The very light and soft 
breakfast rolls shown on the right of the photo are made from 
a dough consisting of the following ingredients: 22 lb. of flour, 6J qt. 
of milk, 13 oz. of yeast, 5 oz. of salt, 9 oz. of butter, and 11 oz. of sugar. 
A ferment is made as described before; then after dough has been made, 
the butter is kneaded in. After sufficient proof, they are scaled off at 
3 J oz. each, and moulded round like buns. When all moulded, the first 
lot is shaped in the following way. The hand is brought down smoothly 
on the dough with a sawing motion, thus nearly dividing it into two equal 
parts, only a small strip of dough keeping them together. They are proved 
on a cloth in rows of four, with the cloth raised up between each row. 
They have to be baked in a very hot oven. As a rule Dutch bread is 
baked at much higher temperatures than English bread, the oven in the 
case of the former being from 480° to 500° F. 

No. 1 on the Plate of Dutch Bread is a photo of Rye Bread, perhaps 
the most interesting one for the English baker. For its manufacture 
rye meal is exclusively used. 100 lb. of rye meal is mixed Dutch 
with 80 lb. of very hot water into a thick paste, the rye Rye Bread, 
being almost scalded. Sometimes a small quantity — 2 or 3 lb. — of treacle 
is added, but always from 2|-5 lb. of salt is mixed with it. When the 
paste is cooled down sufficiently the loaves are moulded and shaped in 
a square wooden frame, till they have the form and size, though not 
quite so thick, of an ordinary wall brick. To prevent sticking they are 
dusted wnth bran. The setting of this bread requires a good deal of 
experience, as no room has to be wasted. On top of the loaves wet 
boards are placed, and on top of these again a thick layer of wet offal 
is spread. Then the door is screwed to the mouth of the oven and the 
bread allowed to bake, or stew rather, in its own steam from twenty-four 
to forty-eight hours. The length of time allowed is determined by the 
amount of colour desired — whether it is wanted brown or black. The 



222 CONTINENTAL BREAD 

oven is, of course, becoming colder all the time the bread is baking, as 
the heat is not augmented in any way while the bread is in the oven. 

The oven used for baking this bread is of the old "pot" type. A fire of 
peat, wood, and sawdust is made on the oven bottom, and when heated to 
Oven for ^^^^ proper degree the fire is taken out; and, after a good clean- 
Rye Bread, ing, the bread is baked by the heat radiating from the bricks. 
There is no internal flue in this kind of oven, the draught being through 
the door opening only. In order to prevent the smoke from filling the 
bakehouse, a funnel-shaped screen, which projects the entire width of the 
oven, and has a depth of some 3 ft. at the bottom, is fixed over the door. 
On top of this funnel is the mouth of the flue, which is built on the top of 
the oven. 

As regards fancy bread, there is more variety in Holland than in 
Britain. It is called pain de luxe, and is in most cases a kind of fermented 
Dutch confectionery. Very often a Dutch baker proudly calls him- 

Fancy Bread, self " Vienna, Dresdener, and Parisian baker ". This indicates 
that he is able to make the different fancy rolls familiar in these cities; but 
there are some fancy breads peculiar to Holland. 

For variety the Dutch families have, besides the ordinary white and 
brown bread and the famous rye bread, very often currant bread on the 
Currant table. The well-to-do classes have a richer kind than the poorer. 
Bread. A. very common currant bread, that is not much dearer than the 
ordinary white bread, is sold in great quantity. The dough for this 
consists of 100 parts of flour, 2 of yeast, 1"5 of salt, 65 of water, and 85 of 
currants. It is made in the same waj^ as described above, only the currants 
are added last of all. The price of these loaves is 1 lb. 10 oz. for 2|d. 

The rich kind is different altogether. The dough for this consists of 
the following ingredients: 100 lb. of flour, 70 lb. of currants, 30 lb. of 
sultanas, 50 lb. of citron peel, 8 lb. of yeast, 75 eggs, 15 lb. of butter, 60 lb. 
of milk, 1 lb. of salt, and a few drops of citron oil. After a dough has been 
made of the flour, milk, eggs, salt, and yeast, and allowed to prove for some 
fifteen minutes, the butter is worked in first and then the fruit. It lies till 
proved sufficiently, and is then scaled off*, handed up, and moulded in oblong 
loaves from 12 to 14 in. in length. These are proved on baking sheets, and 
washed over with egg, and cut like a baton with a knife before going in. 
The baker gets a fairly good price for this, averaging from 1 lb. 10 oz. 
for 8d. 

The Englishman now has his plum pudding, mince pies, &c., at Christ- 
mas. The Germans, and in our days to a great extent the Dutch people, 
Christmas ^ave their Weihnachtstolle (see Plate, Vienna Fancy Bread — 
Bread. JV^ Nqs. 23, 26). The Dutchman sometimes gives them the 

same name, but he also speaks very often of Kersthrood, which means 
the same thing. To make a good Weihnachtstolle requires much care 
and experience. As a rule it is difficult to obtain a good recipe for this 
bread. Many bakers, especially in Germany, make it their special one. 
Some bakers increase the quantity of butter, whilst others add some 



DUTCH BREAD 223 

ground bitter almonds. Make a dough of the following ingredients: 
10 lb. of flour, 3^ pt. of milk, 8 to 10 eggs, 1| oz. of salt, and 6^ oz. of 
yeast (a ferment should be made with all the liquor and one-third of the 
flour). When the dough has lain for some fifteen to twenty minutes, work 
in the butter (2^ lb.), and last of all the fruit, 6 lb. of sultanas and 4 lb. 
of citron peel (sometimes a little citron oil is added). Care should be 
taken that the dough feels firm and springy when the butter is worked 
in. When proved sufficiently scale off" to weiglit desired, hand up, and 
mould in the usual way. When moulded round, press the centre quite 
thin with a rolling-pin, so that the dough is nearly divided into two 
halves; then fold one half over the other. The loaf thus obtained will 
have the appearance shown on the plate. After baking dust them over 
with icing sugar. The best way to do this is to sieve the sugar over 
the loaves. The latter get then quite a snowy appearance. This kind 
of business pays the baker well. Weihnachtstolle weighing about 2 lb. 
are sold at Is. Sd. to 2s. 

A peculiar kind of rye bread, different from the English or Dutch rye 
bread, is very popular in Sweden. 15-20 lb. of water, at 105° F., 50 lb. of 
rye meal, 8 oz. of salt, 4 oz. of yeast, and a little caraway seed Swedish 
(if wanted) is made into a dough. When the dough has been Rye Bread, 
made it is dusted with flour, wrapped up in a cloth, and covered with a 
woollen blanket, and allowed to prove from two to three hours in a warm 
place. If after that time the dough has shifted, it is kneaded again with 
some flour, and allowed to ferment some time again in the same way. 
After sufficient proof it is scaled off and moulded. The lumps of dough 
are — edther with a rolling-pin or by hand — made into flat round cakes, 
from 12 to 14 in. in diameter and ^ in. in thickness. In the centre a hole 
of 2 in. in diameter is cut. These cakes are removed by special forks to 
a board and allowed to prove sufficiently. Then they are baked on the 
bottom of the oven, which has been previously heated by a wood fire. 
After the baking the cakes are brushed to remove the dust, and placed 
on sticks. To dry the cakes thoroughly, the sticks are suspended from 
the ceiling of a warm room for a couple of days. When baked they 
should have a light yellow-brown appearance. They are made to keep 
for any length of time when thoroughly dried. A better quality of this 
bread is made by taking milk instead of w^ater, and by the addition of 
a small quantity of butter and white flour. 

To make Dutch Karlsbad Salt Sticks, take 11 oz. of flour, 1 oz. of 
sugar, 4 oz. of butter, a pinch of salt, and h oz. of yeast, or an equivalent 
quantity of baking powder. Make with cold milk into a stiff dough. Then 
cut small pieces, roll them to the length and thickness of an Dmch 
ordinary lead-pencil. Wash them over with water, and sprinkle Karlsbad 
salt and ground caraw^ay over them. Place them on tins, and 
bake them them off quickly at a steady temperature. After baking, soak 
them with melted butter. 

The following is the recipe for Dutch Tea Sticks: 9 oz. of butter 



224 YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPEOVERS 

melted, 1 lb. 6 oz. of flour, 9 oz. of sugar, 5 eggs, 1^ oz. of carbonate of 
ammonia. Stir the melted butter, sugar, and eggs well to- 
getlier. Then add the flour gradually, and work this well in. 

Flavour with the zest of one lemon. Make from this dough short cut 

sticks, and bake lightly on tins. See Plate, Vienna Fancy Bread — III, 

Nos. 4, 5, 6. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 

YEAST FOODS AND STIMULANTS: BREAD-IMPROVERS 

To bakers of less than fifty years ago, with vague ideas as to the nature, 
properties, and functions of yeast, the title of this chapter would have been 
Nature of Yeast but a meaningless phrase, yet they were daily using pro- 
discovered, cesses, the outcome of ages of practical experience, which 
resulted in the formation of materials admirably suited to the growth and 
reproduction of yeast. Such processes had been arrived at by purely 
empirical methods, and it remained for science to explain the reasons for 
their use, and to amplify the methods by indicating possible variations. 
To a native of Delft, by name Antony van Leeuwenhoek, belongs the 
honour of having discovered yeast to be a living organism. He died in 
1723. It was not, however, until 1837 that three independent investigators, 
namely, Cagniard Latour, Th. Schwann, and F. Kiitzing, brought forward 
evidence to show that fermentation was a result of the life activity of 
yeast. It remained for Pasteur, in 1862, to dispose finally of the theory of 
spontaneous decomposition, and to establish the vitalistic theory of fermen- 
tation. The yeast cell having been admitted to the realm of living matter, 
its activities naturally became classifiable with the metabolic functions of 
all other living bodies. Its capabilities of growth, reproduction, and decay 
being once demonstrated, the problems of its nutrition, respiration, and 
excretions followed as a natural consequence. To these questions an army 
of workers have devoted themselves, and great advances have been made, 
yet much still remains to be done before the life history of a yeast plant 
can be authoritatively written. 

For the baker, unfortunately, much of the knowledge gained aftbrds 
very little enlightenment respecting the important part played by yeast in 
p . f the fermentation of dough. Narrowing the problem down to 
Yeast in its simplest aspects, we may say that in a dough yeast per- 

Dough. forms two functions: it produces the gas necessary to bring 

about vesiculation of the bread during baking, and it also induces altera- 
tions in the chemical nature of the gluten of the flour, softening it, and in 
extreme cases destroying its original physical properties entirely. In order 
to discharge these functions efficiently, so that the effects are in perfect 
equilibrium — that is to say, sufficient gas production and just the right 
amount of gluten change being both effected in approximately the same 



YEAST FOODS 225 

time — it is essential that the yeast shall be capable of living and growing 
vigorously, and not merely vegetating or sluggishly fermenting in a par- 
tially moribund state, conditions which can only result in low fermentations 
and sour, heavy, unpalatable bread. Yeast, then, in order that it may 
function normally, requires food; in other words, it must be supplied with 
material it can assimilate and utilize for building up its cell matter and 
reproducing itself. 

It is of the first importance to ascertain how far the medium into which 
a yeast is sown is capable of supplying the requisite nutritive principles, 
and to what extent it should be supplemented by the addition Essentials of 
of special materials which we shall designate yeast foods. Yeast Food. 
Now, the principal needs of yeast, as of all living cells, are water, air, nitro- 
genous matters or proteins, carbonaceous matters, as sugars, &c., and salts. 
It is important to note that the nitrogenous matter is needed in several! 
different forms, partly as true protein, and partly in certain combinations 
known to chemists as amides and amino acids. These latter bodies are of 
great importance, since they act as powerful accelerators of yeast activity. 
They are indeed similar in constitution and properties to the extractive 
principles obtained from meat extracts, and consequently are true physio- 
logical stimulants. Apart from water and air, all the nutritive principles 
will need to be present in flour if it is to suffice for yeast sustenance with- 
out the addition of special foods. 

In olden times the baker did not need to buy a yeast food. He un- 
consciously made one every time he set a ferment or made a sponge. 
Sown into a nutritive medium, generally of flour with boiled potatoes, the 
yeast multiplies rapidly, the condition of ample liquid supply being espe- 
cially favourable. Moreover, during growth and reproduction other secondary 
changes proceed in the medium, partly as an outcome of the yeast activity,, 
and partly due to the bacteria which always accompany yeast. As a net 
result of these actions, the gluten in the medium becomes radically altered 
in constitution; it takes on very active properties towards other gluten^ 
which it quickly softens, so that when a dough is made with a sponge or 
ferment it rapidly becomes sufficiently ripened for the oven. It is to the- 
introduction of straight-doughing systems, in conjunction with the use of 
highly cleaned modern flours, that we must ascribe the very general demand 
for some form of yeast-accelerator as an adjunct in fer- why Yeast Foods 
menting bread. The growing opinion in favour of a ^^^ ^^^^ '" Dough, 
shorter working day also distinctly favours the adoption of anything which 
tends to hasten the process along. Yeast foods are sometimes used for 
sentimental reasons: bakers who have discarded potatoes think they must 
use something, although excellent bread can be made without any addition 
to flour except yeast, water, and salt. 

A good yeast food fulfils two important requirements. By presenting 
readily fermentable matter to the yeast, it facilitates gas pro- Function of 
duction, its function in this respect being that of a conser- Yeast Food, 
vator of yeast effort; secondly, it may furnish material of a soluble nitro- 

VOL. I. 29 



226 YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPROVERS 

genous nature for the growth and reproduction of the yeast, and in this 
case it is truly a food. The materials commonly drawn upon to furnish 
yeast foods are compai-atively few in number, they are very similar in 
character, and with one or two exceptions are quite inexpensive. The 
baker who is master of his craft should therefore have no difficulty in 
providing a yeast food suitable to his trade and mode of working from 
ordinary materials which may be bought in the open market. A very 
cursory glance at the list of substances given below will show that in 
Common all of the common yeast foods carbonaceous matter for 

Yeast Foods, conversion into alcohol and carbon dioxide is the chief con- 
stituent. Sugar, or some form of modified starch capable of ready trans- 
formation into sugar forms the basis. Thus we have: scalded flour, mashed 
potatoes, malt flour, malt extract, baked flour, cane sugar, glucose. In 
considering the nature of yeast foods, it is important to make a distinction 
between some of the many substances commonly classed under this heading. 
Moisture-retainers and flavourers are to be placed in quite a different cate- 
gory. They may or may not be yeast foods, but in any case they ought 
not to be confounded with true yeast foods, but should be considered as 
bread-improvers. 

When the composition of flour is critically considered, it may fairly be 
asked whether indeed there is real necessity for such substances as yeast 
No Need for a foods. From a large number of analyses it is found that 
Yeast Food. flour contains an average of 2 to 3 per cent of sugar, which 
is said to consist of maltose and cane sugar in about equal proportions. 
Now Dumas has shown that the amount of carbon dioxide required to 
raise an ordinary dough can be obtained from less than 1 lb. of sugar for 
each 100 lb. of flour. Again, the soluble proteins in flours vary between 
the limits of l'5-2'5 per cent; that is to say, in 1 sack (280 lb.) of flour 
there is present from 4 to 7 lb. of soluble nitrogenous matter ready for 
absorption by the yeast plant. Apparently, then, there is sufficient to 
permit of a fivefold to sevenfold increase in yeast. Even should this 
quantity of protein become exhausted, there remains the gluten, which we 
know from experience is slowly converted into soluble forms during fer- 
mentation, and may in that condition become suitable for absorption by 
the yeast. The figures clearly show that the crude materials required for 
fermentation already exist in flour abundantly sufficient to satisfy the 
requirements of bread-making. Why, then, add more? The answer has 
been given above, viz., for greater speed of fermentation. 

Potatoes 

Potatoes must be considered as the earliest yeast food. Where and 
when they were introduced no records now exist to show, but it is certain 
Composition that until recent years potatoes were universally in use for 
of Potatoes, ^j^jg purpose throughout England. The mean composition of 
raw potatoes is given by Konig as follows: — 



YEAST FOODS 



227 





Water. 


Proteins. 


Fat. 


Carboliyihates, 
chiefly Starch. 


Cellulose. 


Salts. 


Mean of 239 analyses... 


74-93 


1-99 


•15 


20-86 


•98 


1^09 



At first sight, then, it would seem that potatoes can liardly be con- 
sidered of much use as yeast food, since they are so very poor in nitro- 
genous matters. The explanation Ol their efficacy must i^at^re of Nitro- 
be sought in the qualitative nature of these nitrogenous genous Matter 
constituents. According to Kellner, fully one-half of the '" otatoes. 
total nitrogen is present as amides and other extractive bodies. E. Schultz 
found, among other bodies, peptone, xanthin, asparagin, leucin, and tyrosin 
in the non-albuminous, nitrogen compounds. Of these extractives asparagin 
at least has been proved to exercise a powerful stimulating effect upon 
enzyme activity; thus J. Effront found that upon adding -05 gm. of 
asparagin to a starch solution containing diastase, a yield of 61^2 per cent 
of maltose was obtained in the same time as 863 per cent maltose was pro- 
duced in a check experiment without this reagent. It will be noted that 
the activity of the enzyme is increased nearly eight times by the addition 
of only "05 per cent of asparagin. It has been determined that potatoes 
contain about S per cent of asparagin, so that in a one-sack dough, for 
which from 7-12 lb. of potatoes would be used, nearly ^ oz. of this stimulat- 
ing agent would be present, and there appears to be good ground for the 
view that although the nitrogenous matter in potatoes is small in quantity, 
yet a very high proportion of it is present in forms which are especially 
useful to yeast. 

When potatoes are boiled the starch grains do not become disintegrated, 
as in the case of cereal pastes, unless the boiling is unduly prolonged. 
This is to be attributed to the fact -that the walls of the cells into Potato 
which the starch grains are packed exert considerable pressure upon Starch, 
the contained starch, and thus prevent the individuals bursting. The conse- 
quence is that each starch grain, although greatly swollen and fissured, 
remains intact, the granulose or gelatinous part of the starch remaining still 
enclosed. In this condition starch is a very efficient water-retainer, without 
that stickiness which results with scalded flour. Further, the starch grains 
are sufficiently altered for diastasic enzymes to act upon them when present, 
and to convert them into sugars. This property of potato mash explains its 
undoubted value as a moisture-retainer and bread-improver in the physical 
sense. 

On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that potatoes are very 
prone to certain diseases, and dangerous fermentative bacteria are fre- 
quently present on the skins. The presence of the ropy j^anger of Disease 
bread organism Bacillus viesentericus can frequently be in Potatoes, and 
demonstrated by washing the skins, especially around the ^^^ *" *^® Bread. 
eyes, with some sterilized water, and then inoculating sterile bread and 
cultivating for 12 hours in the incubator at 35' C. (95° F.). 



228 YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPROVERS 

Potatoes are nearly always used in ferments, though a few bakers who 
have adopted straight-dough methods have transferred their old custom to 
the new process and continue to use fruit, as potatoes are called in the 
bakehouse. They are generally used in quantities of 7 to 12 lb. per sack, 
the washed potatoes being thoroughly boiled in about 1 gallon of water, 
and afterwards mashed to pulp and strained off the skins. The resulting 
mash is then seeded with yeast, with the addition of a small quantity of 
flour. 

Scalded Flour 

In various forms scalded flour has been largely used during recent 
years. It is perhaps the baker's sole attempt to manufacture a bread- 
Scalded Flour improver, for, as will presently be shown, scalded flour has 
as Yeast Food. ^ Jq-^ value as a yeast food. In composition it will closely 
resemble the cereal from which it is prepared, the chief alterations taking- 
place as a result of scalding being the rupture of the starch grains and 
conversion of the material into a gelatinous paste, the rendering of the 
albumins insoluble by the heat of scalding, and the destruction by the 
same agency of any ferments which may have been present. As a true 
yeast food, therefore, scalded flour is distinctly lower in value than raw 
flour, since it is flour with its soluble proteins and ferments destroyed. 
On the other hand, the starch has been rendered soluble, and if any dias- 
tasic ferments are introduced with the yeast, doubtless maltose will be 
formed, and this material then becomes a good basis for gas formation. 

From a large number of experiments conducted at the National Bakery 
School, London, it would appear that the effects of scalded flour in bread 
Experiments on are physical rather than chemical, and for this reason it 
Scalded Flour, must be regarded primarily as a bread-improver, and to a 
very small extent as a yeast food. These experiments showed that only a 
very slight change of the gelatinized flour into glucose could be detected, 
whilst the characters of the bread produced were such as might be expected 
when a difficultly drying gelatinous material is added. Thus in proportions 
up to 3 lb. per sack beneficial results were noted. The colour of crust was 
better, the crumb was whiter, and the retention of moisture was markedly 
improved. The volume, however, instead of being greater, as might cer- 
tainly be expected if gas evolution resulted in increased amount, was indeed 
entirely in the opposite direction of closeness. This effect is accentuated 
with increasing quantities of the scalded flour, so that when 10 lb. per sack 
is used the bread becomes soggy and impossible to bake thoroughly. 
Bread containing such large quantities as this has a marked raw, starchy 
flavour, even when quite dry, and this lends additional support to the views 
expressed above. 

Cane Sugar and Glucose 

Cane sugar and glucose are two substances very frequently employed, 
mainly perhaps because it is popularly thought that the chief function of a 



YEAST FOODS 



229 



yeast food is to yield gas. As we have already sliown, this is an incorrect 
view, and these substances being practically devoid of nitro- cane Sugar 
genous constituents are not yeast foods at all. The follow- ^"'^ Glucose, 
ing analyses of these substances will show the chief differences in com- 
position between them: — 





Water. 


Cane Sugar 
(Sucrose). 


Glucose and 
Maltose. 


Dextrin. 


Ash. 


Remarks. 


Cane Susfar — 














Centrifugal, good ... 


1-5 


96-5 


0-75 





0-40 




Beet, first quality ... 


2-0 


95-0 


0-00 





1-25 




Refined, granulated... 


00 


99-8 


0-20 


— 


0-00 




Refined, yellow 


6 


82-0 


7-50 





2-00 






16-27 


— 


68-25 


14-91 


0-57 


J Mean of 52 
( analyses. 
[Mean of 59 


Glucose 


18-47 


— 


44-86 


35-55 


0-99 


• analyses, 
V American. 




14-38 


— 


49-38 


35-16 


0-14 


Dry chips. 



Refined cane sugar is probably the purest chemical substai>ce met with 
in commerce, the solid matter consisting as it does of 99 per cent sucrose. 
It contains practically no nitrogen, and consequently is neither a true food 
nor a stimulant. It is, in fact, a gas-producer pure and simple. Cane sugar 
is a disaccharide, and is not directly fermentable by yeast. It must first be 
changed into a monosaccharide, and this change is accomplished by yeast 
through the agency of its enzyme, invertase. When working with cane 
sugar, not more than 2 lb. per sack are necessary, this quantity being more 
than sufficient to yield all the gas required, and at the same time still leave 
a residue which will give the bread a sweet flavour and a rich bloom. It 
is, in fact, for the purpose of giving the bread this bloom that sugar is 
generally used. 

Glucose is a monosaccharide, and consequently is directly fermentable 
by yeast. It is usually obtained from starch by the action of an acid and 
the subsequent purification and concentration of the resulting syrup. In 
addition to the substances shown in the analysis there are usually small 
quantities of undetermined bodies which result from the action of the acid, 
and sometimes give a slightly unpleasant flavour. Like cane sugar it 
contains no nitrogenous matter, and cannot assist yeast multiplication; it 
is, however, quite the best gas-producer which can be used, since the yeast 
can begin to act upon it the moment contact is made. It thus affords a 
valuable aid where extremely short systems are desired with corresponding 
good bulk. Glucose comes into market in two forms, as solid chips or 
in thick syrup. On account of the larger percentage of moisture and its 
very much lower sweetening power, it can be used in doughs in slightly 
larger proportion than cane sugar, but the limits should generally be about 
2 lb. per sack. In addition to its gas-producing properties, glucose may 
also act as a bread-improver. 



230 



YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPEOVERS 



Both cane sugar and glucose may have seriously detrimental effects if 
the dough is allowed to become overfermented. The bread will then be 
Effects of ^^y ^^^ crumbly to an extraordinary extent. A remark- 

Excessive Sugar able fact in this connection is the peculiar action of glucose 
on uten. ^^^^^ cane sugar upon gluten. It has been found by J. 

Kirkland that when large quantities are used in dough the tenacity of the 
gluten is completely destroyed, so that in a very little time it becomes 
impossible to separate any gluten by the ordinary method of washing out. 
The reason for this action is not at present clear, but it is evident that 
considerable danger is entailed by the use of excessive quantities of these 
sugars. 

Rye Flour 

Rye flour has long been considered a very efficient quickener of fer- 
mentation, and this is attributed to the relatively large amount and the 
Rye Flour and nature of the soluble proteids in rye flour. Very little has 
its Action. been done to test the correctness of this view, and it should be 
borne in mind when considering the question, that rye is never so finely 
milled and separated as wheat is. The product in consequence is darker in 
colour, and it is also quite fair to assume that the activity of rye flour is 
largely due to the aleurone constituents of the rye bran, which would be 
separated if rye went through the ordinary separations practised in wheat- 
milling. The peculiar efl^ect of newly milled wheat flour from stone mills 
was very similar in kind, but incomparably less in intensity, to that noted 
Composition of ^^ ^^^ ""^^ ^^ ^Y^ flour, and it is reasonable to attribute 
Rye and Wheat both effects to the same agency. The following analyses 
our compare . ^^ ^^^ ^^^ wheat flours will serve to show the important 
differences between them, part of which may be due to mode of milling: — 





Water. 


Nitrogenous Matters. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrates 
(Sugar and Starch). 


Cellulose. 


Salts. 


Soluble. 


Insoluble. 


Rye flour 
Wheat flour 

(a) fine 

(b) coarse 


13-85 

15-54 
14-25 


3-33 

1-34 
1-45 


9-11 

9-82 
12-39 


2-17 

1-07 
1-25 


66-21 

71-27 
68-27 


3-93 

0-32 
0-99 


1-40 

0-60 
1-40 



It will be noted that rye contains rather more than double the proportion 
of soluble nitrogenous matter present even in coarse wheaten flour. Rye 
flour can be used safely in quantities up to 3 lb. per sack, the latter only 
if flour is very strong. The best method of preparation consists in mixing 
the flour into a moderately thick paste with water at 165^ F., and allowing 
the mixture to stand for three to four hours. The object of using water 
at 165° F. is to utilize any diastasic properties to the fullest advantage, 
for at this temperature starch transformation takes place very rapidly. 



YEAST FOODS 



231 



Hio-her temperatures will destroy the enzymes. In a series of experiments 
with rye flour it was found that the gas yield was more than doubled 
compared with a wheaten flour test carried on for the same time. The 
proteins of rye have a degrading action on the gluten of wheat flour, and 
in excessive quantity make the dough runny and the bread flat. 

Germ and Malt Culms 

Germ and malt culms are less known and more seldom used as yeast 
foods, although both these materials contain relatively large amounts of 
chemical compounds favourable to the growth and mul- Germ and Malt 
tiplication of yeast. The following partial analyses of germ Culms, 
and culms will give an idea of the general composition of these bodies: — 



~ 


Water. 


Nitrogenous Matters. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrates. 


Cellulose. 


Salts. 


Soluble. 


Insoluble. 


Gums and 
Sugars. 


Starch, 
&c. 


Germ - 
Culms ] 


8-7 
11-5 
141 

8-5 
7-5 


6-6 
10-5 

12 
15 
14 


26-5 
12-6 

08 

89 

9 


150 
120 
3-46 

1-85 
2-51 


230 

9-7 

11-9 

13-4 


10-0 
30-5 


1-7 

5-9 

15-2 

12-5 


5-4 
3-9 
9-63 
12-6 
4-5 



It was at one time thought that germ was rich in diastasic properties, but 
further investigations do not support this view.^ The enzymes of germ are 
incapable of transforming the starch which is present in the germ. The 
diastasic properties are very low, and the yeast-stimulating eflects of the 
material are not due to its powers of starch-conversion, but to the soluble 
nitrogenous constituents, in which it is very rich. We have already 
alluded to the amides, e.g. asparagin, leucin, &c., and it is these bodies which 
constitute a considerable proportion of the nitrogen content of germ, sup- 
plemented by albumoses and plant peptone. It has recently been shown 
by Dr. H. Brown that these bodies are of vital importance to yeast growth, 
for, with their exhaustion from a medium, the activity of yeast gradually 
declines, ultimately ceasing, even though there may still be considerable 
amounts of soluble nitrogen left in solution and a large amount of sugar 
unfermented. From the analyses it may be concluded that there is no 
necessit}'- to consider diastasic activity as indispensable, for it will be seen 
that germ contains from 10 to 20 per cent of ready-formed sugars, or 
nearly 7 oz. in 3 lb. of germ upon the average. The eflfects of germ are 
certainly best explained by the theory that they increase yeast. The 
results of a series of interesting experiments bearing upon this point, pub- 
lished by J, Kirkland, are reproduced here. Roughly, it will be seen that 
gas production was increased proportionally to the quantity of germ added. 
In these tests, ferments containing 4 oz. flour and ^ oz. yeast in 400 c.cm. of 

^ This is still a matter in dispute, and some recent experiments clearly show that fresh germ does 
exercise considerable diastasic activity. 



232 



YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPEOVERS 



water at 90" F. were kept in a warm-water bath, and the gas evolved was 
measured at regular intervals. The figures obtained were as follows: — 





20 min. 


45 min. 


2 hr. 45 min. 


3 hr. 45 min. 






cu. in. 


cu. in. 


cu. in. 


cu. in. 


I. 


Ferment + ^ oz. germ 


9-1 


26-0 


56-0 


57-5 


II. 


+ 1 . 


U-0 


30-4 


63-4 


75-9 


III. 


+ 1 „ 


13-0 


32-0 


63-3 


74-3 


IV. 


+ H „ 


14-2 


36-0 


70-2 


82-2 


V. 


+ n „ 


14-2 


37-0 


70-4 


82-2 


VI. 


„ + 21 „ 


19-0 


45-0 


80-2 


95-2 



Germ may be used in quantities up to 2 lb. per sack with perfect safety. 
The best method of use for white bread is to make a decoction by steeping 
Method of the desired quantity of germ in water at about 160° F. for an 
using Germ, hour, and then straining the liquor off through muslin. In 
white bread it is better not to use the solid germ, on account of the yellow 
colour of the particles; yet if the germ itself is clean and mixed, not in 
the flour, but in the water, it is very difficult to see any yellow spots in 
the resulting bread. The liquor, however, will impart no colour to the 
resulting bread, unless used in very excessive quantities. 

Culms, or malt coombings, are the broken rootlets from malt. They are 
similar in all respects to germ as regards their yeast-stimulating properties. 
They are already used considerably as yeast food in the in- 
dustries of brewing and yeast-making. Culms may be used up 
to 2 lb. per sack, and should be introduced in exactly the same manner 
as germ. Both these substances are to be recommended in preference to 
potatoes. Germ and malt culm extracts contain all the stimulating proper- 
ties of potatoes minus the dangerous bacteria. In the bread, also, germ and 
culms are natural flavour-producers, imparting richness and nutty taste. 



Malt Culms. 



CHAPTER XXXIX 

BEEAD-IMPEOVEES 

Malt Flour and Malt Extract 

Perhaps the most widely used yeast foods and bread-improvers at the 
present time are the various forms of malt flour and malt extract; yet 
Malt Flour and there are few substances liable to wider variations in com- 
Malt Extract. position and value or which present such great difficulties in 
detecting those differences. For the non- technical man there exist no tests 
by which good samples may be sorted out from poor ones. 

Malt may be obtained by artificial germination of any cereal. For 
several reasons, however, barley is the one generally employed. The grain, 



BREAD-IMPROVERS 



233 



after cleaning, is first steeped in several changes of water, and then spread 
out in tliin layers upon floors and allowed to sprout. The Preparation 
process occupies about eight days, during which time the °^ ^^'^• 
mass is frequently turned to prevent local heating, &c. When sufficiently 
grown the " piece ", as the floor of grain is called, is transferred to the kiln, 
a kind of oven where it is slowly dried, and finally raised to a tempera- 
ture sufficient to cure it and produce the required flavour. Malt and Barley 
The following analyses of barley and malts will show the Compared, 
changes brought about by the process of malting. The analyses of the 
malt are by O'Sullivan. 





Water. 


Nitrogenous Matters. 


Carbohydrates. 


Cellulose. 


Fat. 


Salts. 


Soluble in 

Cold or Warm 

Water. 


Insoluble 

Cold and at 

70° C. 


Sugars. 


starch. 


Bfirley ... 

Malt, No. 1 

„ No. 2 


13-88 
5-8 
7-4 


1-7 

6-71 

5-31 


12-4 
6-38 
8-49 


4-13 
21-23 
19-39 


55-57 
44-15 
45-13 


7-76 
11-57 
10-09 


2-66 
1-65 
1-96 


2-3 
2-6 
1-92 



As a consequence of the growing process malt contains, when properly 
made, large quantities of the active bodies called enzymes. The following 
are known to be present: diastase, maltase, invertase, peptase, and cytase(?). 
In addition to these powerful chemical agents it also contains large 
amounts of soluble carbohydrates formed from the starch of the endosperm. 
The most important property of malt products is the content of active 
agents, but these delicate substances are exposed to many risks at every 
stage of the process of preparation, and it may often happen that an 
extract or flour will be quite devoid of diastasic or proteolytic activity. 
In malt flours age is perhaps the greatest danger. When ground, malt 
absorbs moisture with great avidity, and the enzymes are quickly weak- 
ened, and destroyed when the malt becomes at all slack. Similarly, too 
gi-eat heat in kilning, extracting, or in the final evaporation of a malt 
extract, will have the same effect, and the resulting extract will be little 
better than a concentrated syrup. On reference to the analyses of 
O'Sullivan it will be seen that quite large amounts of fermentable sugar 
exist in malt, and by careful extraction this may be largely increased if 
the temperature is properly regulated. If the temperature is carried to the 
extreme diastasic limit, the whole of the starch in the malt will be changed 
into sugar, and will thus become capable of extraction, but this result will 
be obtained at the expense of the diastase, which in all probability will be 
entirely lost. 

Dr. H. Brown has recently shown that the soluble proteins of malt 
consist of albumoses, peptones, and amino acids to the extent of 60 per 
cent of the total soluble nitrogen present. It is important Composition of 
to remember that in low-temperature extractions the active ^^^^ Proteins, 
enzymes increase the soluble nitrogenous matters. It will also be seen how 

30 



Vol. I. 



234 



YEAST FOODS AND BREAD-IMPROVERS 



important it is that during concentration the temperature is not raised 
too high, else the soluble proteins are coagulated and thrown out of solu- 
tion. Malt extracts are generally used in comparatively small amounts, 
insufficient to have any pronounced -effect in either direction. Except on 
the ground of cost there is no reason why quantities up to 5 or 6 lb. per 
sack should not be used, in which case distinctive results would be ob- 
tained. In excessive quantity — 10 lb. or more — malt extract acts similarly 
to other sugars; the bread becomes short and crumbly, and the colour is 
adversely affected. The use of malt extracts is largely due to the attempt 
Composition of to provide the subtle flavour supposed to have been lost 
Malt Extracts, through the exclusion of germ and bran cerealin from 
modern roller-milled flours. The following analyses will give an idea of 
the composition of some commercial malt extracts: — 



Sample. 


Specific 
Gravity. 


Total 
Extract. 


Acidity. 


Nitrogenous 
Matters. 


Maltose. 


Dextrin. 


Ash. 


Time Taken 

to Transform 

Equal Weight 

Starch. 


A 
B 
C 


1-38 
1-42 
1-49 


72-3 
76-6 
79-8 


•26 
•29 
•43 


3-32 
3-11 

4-87 


62-5 
65-4 
61-32 


5-2 

6-9 

12-3 


1-21 
M9 
1-23 


5 mill. 
10 „ 
5 „ 



The diastasic property is the most important principle of a malt extract, 
and a good sample should be capable of converting an equal weight of 
starch in ten minutes at 55° C. (131° R). During fermentation of a dough 
there is probably very little starch conversion, even with the most actively 
diastasic extract, unless there is gelatinized starch of some kind present 
also, in which case sugar will be formed and gas evolution will be 
accelerated. When only the raw starch of the flour is present, practically 
no change can take place until the bread is in the oven. Here, as the 
interior of the loaf will rise very slowly to 212° F., there will be time for 
some starch change to take place whilst the temperature ranges from 
140° to 180° F., and considerable sugar may then be formed. These sugars 
will remain in the bread, forming flavour and moisture retainers, since it 
will be impossible for yeast to attack the sugar, as it is killed at tempera- 
tures below that of starch transformation, viz. about 125° F. It is as a 
bread-improver, therefore, that malt extract needs to have a good diastasic 
power. 

A ready method of evaluating the diastasic power of a malt extract 
consists in treating '5 gm. of dry starch with hot water and bringing 
Test for ^o the boil; then make up to 100 c.c. Dissolve 5 gm. of 

Malt Extract, the sample extract in 100 c.c. of water. Take 20 c.c. of 
starch solution and cool to 60° C. (140° F.); then add 1 c.c. of the malt 
extract solution, and place in a water bath at 60° C. (140° F.). At intervals 
of 15 minutes remove one drop of the solution with a glass rod and place 
on a tile; then add one drop of solution of iodine in potassium iodide. 



BREAD-IMPROVERS 235 

Continue until the iodine solution, instead of giving a deep -blue, yields 
only a pale -yellow colour. Add fresh quantities of 1 e.c. malt extract 
each half-hour until this result is obtained. If the malt extract is good 
it will not require more than 2 c.c. to obtain this result. 

Milk 

Milk is used to some extent in bread-making, and it may be properly re- 
garded as a bread-improver. There are now upon the market many brands 
of dried milk, and as this material can be very conveniently Mjik as 
stored without risk of deterioration, it is generally preferable Yeast Food, 
to purchasing the liquid. Much of this dried milk, however, has more 
or less of the original fat removed, and in some cases may be little more 
than a mixture of casein and lactose. It is better, therefore, to obtain a 
guarantee of the fat content when purchasing. 

Milk sugar (lactose) is commonly said to be non-fermentable by yeast, 
but certain yeasts (kephir) are now known which can split this sugar into 
dextrose and galactose by means of a special enzyme, after 
which fermentation takes place in the usual way. But ex- 
periments have shown that the compressed yeast used by bakers has 
practically no effect on milk sugar. Generally lactose becomes fermented 
to lactic acid, as is expressed in the following equation: — 

CjgHaaOi^ + H2O = 4C3H6O3 

Lactose. Water. Lactic acid. 

This change is brought about by many species of bacteria. The 
flavour, colour, and texture of bread are very materially improved by 
the use of milk, and doubtless the soluble albumins also furnish some 
food for yeast growth. It should not be used in excessive quantities, 
because of the binding effects of large quantities of casein. The best 
mode of using is to dilute the milk with an equal bulk of water. Fer- 
mentations of milk bread should not be too prolonged, else the multiplica- 
tion of lactic germs may proceed so far as to cause destruction of gluten, 
and consequent crumbliness in the bread. 

There is little doubt that the fat introduced with milk contributes 
largely to the silkiness and texture of the bread; hence care should be 
exercised when using dried milks to ensure getting a material which 
has not been entirely deprived of its fat. A genuine dried unseparated 
milk should have approximately the following composition: — 



Composition 
of Dried Milk. 



Such a powder, upon reconstitution with warm water in the proportion 





Per Cent. 


Moisture 


4-5 to 7-16 


Fat 


28-7 „ 2-2-45 


Proteids 


25-3 „ 26-83 


Carbohydrates 


36-18 „ 36-31 


Ash 


5-24 „ 6-93 



236 CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS 

of 1 part by weight to 8 parts of water, will yield a fluid exactly similar 
in composition to ordinary cows' milk. 



CHAPTER XL 

CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS: SODA, PEARLASH, ETC. 

In order to raise bread or other goods, a gas must be liberated within 
the mass, which, by its expansion under the rising teinperature of the 
First oven, can form a multitude of cavities throughout the material. 

Aerating keeping the layers apart until such time as the gluten sets into 
^^" ^' .a tenacious film. The earliest aerating agent was undoubtedly 
yeast in the form of leaven, and later, when its properties became known, 
brewers' yeast, or that prepared by the baker in his barms. With the 
advancement of chemical knowledge it became evident that other methods 
of obtaining this gas could be employed without resorting to the process 
of fermentation. Such processes yield unfermented or chemical bread, 
and among the objects of the originators of these methods may be men- 
tioned the saving of time effected and the prevention of that loss of solid 
matter, variously estimated at from 1 to 3 per cent, which results from 
the fermentation of sugar by yeast. It has also been claimed that the 
addition of certain of these saline substances to bread replaces the reduced 
salts in white flour brought about by the removal of the bran. The 
best example of such a substance is the Horsford-Liebig 
Powder, well known in Germany, and one of the earliest of 
baking powders. This consists of a mixture of acid calcium phosphate 
and sodium bicarbonate. 

On the other hand, it is well to remember that with the majority of 
these artificial aerators there is a considerable residue of chemicals left 
in the goods which is of a more or less potent medicinal cliaracter, whilst 
the chemical agents used do not exercise those softening effects upon the 
gluten which occur during yeast fermentation, and, in consequence, bread 
made by such processes is apt to be flat and raw-tasting. In the case of 
fancy goods, e.g. scones, cakes, &c., this failing is not so noticeable on 
account of the sweetening and flavouring materials present in predominat- 
ing quantities. For this reason, and also because in some mixtures, where 
large quantities of sugar, milk, and eggs are being used, it is difficult, and 
sometimes impossible, to get yeast to work, the artificial aerating materials 
find more favour with confectioners than with bread-bakers. One product 
of the bread baker has, however, been frequently made by artificial agents, 
viz., brown bread. The idea was, that on account of the bran principles 
which are included in wholemeal flour, the doughs made with them will 
not stand any lengthy yeast fermentation without great alteration of 
gluten, and there is great danger of insufficient gas formation unless the 



SODA, PEARLASH, ETC. 



237 



fough is allowed to become badly over-ripe. This was only true, however, 
with slow- working barms and long processes; and the difficulty is easily 
overcome with a quick-working yeast. In order to avoid this trouble in 
the past, artificial raising was largely practised, and even now it is some- 
times resorted to. Of course in such cases the flavour of the bran masks 
any defect in ripening flavour. Certain proprietors of wholemeal breads 
adopt this method in part by adding small quantities of baking powder 
to act as aids to the yeast. 

It seems highly probable that the earliest applications of artificial 
aeration were due to accident rather than design, for it is in such foods 
as gingerbread, honey cake, &c., where yeast is inappli- Q^g produced by 
■cable, that their use would appear to have originated. Aerating Agents. 
The only gas which has been successfully applied to this purpose is 
carbon dioxide, which, curiously enough, is the gas naturally produced 
by yeast. Two properties make this gas particularly suitable for the 
purpose, the first being its great solubility in water, and the second the 
harmless nature of the substances from which it can be prepared. No 
other gas could be obtained from solid materials without leaving behind 
powerful chemical salts, which would in most cases be highly poisonous. 
Almost the sole source of the carbon dioxide (COg) used in the bakery 
is sodium bicarbonate (NaHCOg), though potassium carbonate (K.^COg) 
is used to a small extent. The acid used for liberating the gas, however, 
varies greatly, and it is to the variation in the acid constituents that 
the different baking powders owe their origin. 

Sodium Bicarbonate, or Saleratus (NaHCOg), was formerly obtained 
by passing carbon dioxide gas into solutions of normal sources of Sod' 
sodium carbonate. The reaction which took place is re- Bicarbonate 
presented by the equation — 



and Pearlash. 



NaoCOg 

Sodium carbonate. 



+ 



Water. 



+ 



CO, = 

Carbon dioxide. 



2NaHC03 

Sodium bicarbonate. 



The bulk of it is now, however, made by the Solvay process, which 
consists essentially in passing carbon dioxide gas under pressure into 
a brine solution saturated with ammonia gas. The change is given 
below — 



NaCl 


+ 


NH4HO 


+ 


CO., = 


= NHCl 


+ 


NaHCOg 


Sodium 




Ammonium 




Carbon 


Ammonium 




Sodium 


chloride (salt). 




hydrate. 




dioxide. 


chloride. 




bicarbonate. 



Potassium Carbonate, Potashes, or Pearlash (K^COg), was originally 
obtained by calcining wood and plant refuse. The ash was extracted 
by water, and the salts obtained by evaporation of the liquid -formed 
potasJtes. Potashes is generally slightly impure, and is purified by treat- 
ment with water and recrystallization, the product then being known as 
pearlash. Potassium carbonate is also obtained from beetroot residues 
obtained from the manufacture of beet sugar. Large amounts are now 
also obtained from the Stassfurt deposits in Germany. 



238 CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS 

When sodium bicarbonate, either alone or in solution, is heated above 
Result of heat- ■'^^^° ^- (^12° F.) it yields one-half its carbon dioxide and 
ing Sodium becomes converted into normal sodium carbonate. Thus — 

Bicarbonate. 

(a) 2NaHC03 = " Na..C03 + H^CO., 

Sodium bicarbonate. Sodium carbonate. Carbonic acid. 

(6) H2CO3 = H,0 -f- CO., 

Carbonic acid. Water. Carbon dioxide. 

The carbonic acid which results from the first change cannot exist in 
the free state, and therefore it breaks up, producing carbon dioxide and 
water. In studying the foregoing reaction, it should be noted that we 
start with an acid salt, and the result of heating it is to dissociate it 
into a normal salt and the excess acid, the latter being then resolved 
into carbon dioxide and water. The character of the residue also re- 
quires consideration. Sodium carbonate is common soda, similar to that 
used for washing purposes, and has a strongly alkaline reaction. Its 
effect upon flour and saccharine materials is to impart a strongly marked 
Effects of yellow colour, and it also gives the goods the strongly 

Washing Soda caustic taste familiarly associated with the name of soda. 
On account of these unpleasant results sodium bicarbonate is 
never used alone, though owing to the use of improper proportions in making 
baking powders excess of the bicarbonate is often present, which immedi- 
ately becomes apparent in the goods. The household method of making^ 
Sour Milk soda scones by means of sour milk, or buttermilk and saleratus, 
and Soda, ig a close approach to the use of soda alone. In the process of 
butter-making the milk is soured by the action of bacteria present, with 
the production of small amounts of lactic acid. This acid rarely amounts 
to more than "5 per cent, and even in very sour milk will not reach nlore 
than 1 per cent. Unfortunately, such small quantities of acid are quite 
insufficient to neutralize more than a fraction of the bicarbonate which 
must be used if proper aeration is to be attained, and the unchanged bicar- 
bonate, on heating in the oven, undergoes the change already described,, 
leaving alkaline sodium carbonate as a residue in the scone. The reaction 
between lactic acid and sodium bicarbonate may be written thus — 

HC3H5O3 + NaHC03 = NaC3H503 -|- Hp -f CO^ 

Lactic acid. Sodium bicarbonate. Sodium lactate. Water. Carbon dioxide. 

Sodium bicarbonate requires rather more than its own weight of lactic acid 
to neutralize it. It would, therefore, be quite impossible to use sufficient 
sour milk to neutralize the bicarbonate required for scone-making. 

It is well known that in mixings containing large quantities of sugar, 
syrup, honey, or treacle, the yeast plant cannot thrive and ferment properly; 
Use of Pearlash consequently such articles cannot be raised by the fer- 

in Gingerbread, &c. mentative process. It was long ago discovered, how- 
ever, that if pearlash was added to the treacle or other syrup material 
before putting into the flour, the doughs so made, after keeping for a time,. 



SODA, PEARLASH, ETC. 



239 



which may vary from two days to nearly twelve months, would be partly 
aerated, and turn out good gingerbreads or honey cakes as the case might 
be. This is the basis of the Dutch and German methods of honey-cake 
making, and also that of gingerbread production in this country. It was 
considered necessary at one time to add also small quanti- Alum and 
ties of alum, which, as we shall see later, is an acid sub- Peariash used, 
stance capable of liberating carbon dioxide from potashes, but probably the 
great value of this salt lay in its hardening action upon the gluten, thus 
preventing too great a softening. 

In this country sodium bicarbonate is still used alone in making ginger- 
bread, peariash being discarded. The chief agent bringing about the libera- 
tion of gas is to be found in the syrups, which are usually vvhy Gingerbread 
slightly acid at the time dough is made. This acid slowly Aerates when 
increases during the time of lying, chiefly owing to the °"^ ^^ ^^ ' 
increase of certain bacteria. The reaction bringing about gas evolution is 
very slow, partly because of the high viscosity of the medium and partly 
owing to the very small amounts of acid actually present. It is not 
possible to give an equation for the reaction taking place, because the 
exact nature of the acids present has not been fully investigated. The 
addition of rapid gas-producers like tartaric acid would not be of any use 
in such mixings as the above, because the carbonate would be exhausted 
long before the material was required for the oven. 

The idea of producing carbon dioxide by means of a chemical reaction, 
so as to leave only neutral salts in the product, was first patented by 
Dr. Whiting in 1837.^ The materials he used were sodium salt produced 
bicarbonate and hydrochloric acid in the proportions required ^y Chemicals, 
to combine exactly with one another. The reaction is expressed as follows: 



Residue left in goods. 

NaHCOg + HCl = NaCl -f R^O 

Sodium bicarbonate. Hydrochloric acid. Sodium chloride. Water. 



+ 



CO, 

Carbon dioxide. 



The great advantage of this method lies in the fact that only common 
salt (NaCl) remains as a residue when the right quantities are used. Care 
needs to be exercised to ensure that minimum quantities of the reagents 
are used to obtain the desired leavening effects. Perhaps the chief difficulty 
in the use of Whiting's method is to be found in the liquid form of one of 
the reagents and the consequent liability to variation in strength. The 
best method of overcoming this is to check the neutralizing power of the 
acid upon a sample of the bicarbonate. This may be done by weighing 
out about 10 gm. of the bicarbonate and dissolving in distilled water in a 
beaker. Bring to the boil, and add a few drops of litmus solution, -pestin 
Fill a burette with the acid, and then run slowly into the hot Strength 
soda solution until the colour just changes to red. Read off on the °^ ^^^^' 
burette the numl:>er of c.c. of acid used, and this will give approximately the 
volume of acid required to neutralize a given weight of sodium bicarbonate. 



> In a work published in Glasgow by a baker in 1832 reference is made to the use of soda and 
magnesium carbonates, and the same author alsp refers to the use of soda and hydrochloric acid. 



240 CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS 

In applying this method in practice it is necessary to mix the bicar- 
bonate of soda well into the flour. Add the requisite amount of acid to 
the water for dough-making, and then make dough in the usual way. 
The quantities of reagent to be used should be based upon the amount of 
sodium bicarbonate required for ordinary baking powders, and the neces- 
sary acid adjusted to suit; about 10 oz. of sodium bicarbonate should be 
sufficient for 1 cwt. flour. The chief danger attending the use of hydro- 
chloric acid is the possibility of contamination with arsenic. It must be 
guarded against by purchasing the purest acid under guarantee of freedom 
from this poisonous element. These substances were once extensively used 
in making wholemeal bread, but are hardly ever employed now. 



CHAPTER XLl 

CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS: BAKING POWDERS, ETC. 
Tartrate Powders 

An important advance was made in artificial aeration by the substitution 
of solid acid substances for the liquid hydrochloric acid, for this enabled 
mixtures of aerating materials to be made with the flour for long periods in 
advance of requirements, thus securing a great economy of labour. Self- 
raising flour then became a marketable commodity. Another advantage is 
that water only is needed to bring about gas production. The typical acid 
used for this purpose is tartaric acid (H2C4H40g). It is prepared from 
argot, a crude deposit of potassium hydrogen tartrate, obtained as lees from 
the casks used in wine-making. The reddish-coloured deposit is boiled with 
water to purify it, and the solution afterwards crystallized. A fresh solu- 
tion of the crystals is then made and treated with chalk, so that insoluble 
calcium tartrate is formed. The deposit is collected and treated with the 
exact quantity of sulphuric acid required to liberate the tartaric acid, the 
calcium sulphate thus formed is separated ofl", and the tartaric acid solution 
Tartaric Acid is then allowed to Crystallize. Tartaric acid crystals may be 
and Soda. reduced to powder and mixed with sodium bicarbonate, no 

reaction taking place between them so long as moisture is absent. In order 
to minimize the danger of moisture attacking the powder, all commercial 
baking powders are diluted with a proportion of air-dried starch, which 
acts as a drying agent. The quantity of starch used for this purpose is 
very variable, but generally ranges between 23 and 50 per cent of the total 
mixture. In some few powders lactose or milk sugar is used instead of 
starch. When tartaric acid is used, the reaction results in the production 
of neutral sodium tartrate in accordance with the following equation: — 







Residue left in goods. 








H2C4H406 


+ 2 NaHCOg 


Na^C^H^Og 


4- 


2H2O 


+ 2C0o 


Tartaric acid. 


Sodium bicarbonate. 


Sodium tartrate. 




Water. 


Carbon dioxide. 



BAKING POWDERS 



241 



The practical drawback to the use of this agent is that the evolution 
of £jas is too rapid, and the reaction is spent before the goods are ready for 
the oven. This results in considerable loss of carbon dioxide in moulding, 
&c., and there is no reserve for gas evolution during baking, so that there 
is danger of insufficient bulk in the finished articles. This difficulty is 
overcome by the substitution of Potassiwni Hydrogen Tartrate (Cream of 
Tartar) for the free acid. This salt is the original form soda and Cream 
in which tartaric acid occurs in the wine lees, and it is °^ Tartar, 
obtained by simple solution and recrystallization. For preparation as a 
baking powder, cream of tartar is powdered and mixed with sodium 
bicarbonate and starch in the usual manner. When treated with water, 
however, owing to the lesser solubility of the acid salt, it does not quickly 
enter into action with the soda, but when the goods are brought into the 
oven, the increasing temperature facilitating solution of the acid salt 
causes a rapid evolution of gas just at the time it is most necessary. 
The reaction is expressed thus: — 

Residue left in goods. 



KHC^H.Og 


+ NaHCOa 


KNaC,H,0, 


+ 


HoO 


+ 


CO2 


Potassium hydrogen 
tartrate. 


Sodium bicarbonate. 


Potassium sodium 
tartrate. 




Water. 




Carbon' 
dioxide. 



The residual salt, potassium sodium tartrate, is known commercially as- 
Rochelle salts. 

Both the residues left when tartaric acid is used have somewhat 
marked purgative properties, and care should be taken not to use them in 
excess. Another danger attending tlie use of tartrate impurities in 
powders arises from the liability of the tartrates to Tartrate Powders, 
contain lead. The lead is dissolved by the acids from the vessels used in 
the process of manufacture; and though only present in very small quan- 
tities, yet, in view of the serious cumulative effects of small amounts of 
lead, it is very desirable to avoid introducing such dangerous poisons into 
foodstuffs. From the large number of prosecutions lately occurring under 
the Food and Drugs Act, it appears to be very common for traces of this 
metal to be present in baking powders which contain tartaric acid, and it 
is therefore necessary to obtain a written warranty of freedom from lead 
when purchasing tartrate powders. A good cream-of-tartar powder will 
yield about 13 per cent of gas. The common impurities and adulterants 
of cream of tartar are gypsum (calcium sulphate), calcium phosphate, 
bone meal, &c. These impurities, being insoluble, will be found mixed in 
the starch after treatment of the powder with hot water. They may then 
be recognized microscopically. 



Alum Powders 

The very successful application of cream of tartar soon led to the 
attempt to replace this comparatively expensive salt by 
something of a cheaper nature, and various acid sulphates 
and phosphates have been put upon the market. The alum powders belong 



Alum Powders. 



Vol. I. 



31 



242 CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS 

to the sulphate class, and consist generally of calcined potassium or am- 
monium alums, or mixtures of aluminium sulphate with ammonium or 
potassium sulphate. When mixed with the right proportion of sodium 
bicarbonate, and treated with water, the following reaction takes place: — 

Residues left in goods. 

K2Al2(S04)4 + GNaHCOg = A12(6H)6 + SNa^SO^ + K^SO^ + BCOo 

Burnt Sodium Aluminium Sodium Potassium Carbon 

potash alum. bicarbonate. hydrate. sulphate. sulphate. dioxide. 

Much controversy has raged around the use of these substances, and 
authorities have been pretty evenly divided as to the harmfulness, or 
otherwise, accompanying their use. It is claimed by those seeking to 
abolish their employment that the aluminium hydrate has a distinctly 
retarding action upon digestion, by coagulating and hardening the proteins 
of food, whilst the sodium and potassium sulphates are more powerful 
purgatives than tartrate salts. On the other hand, the very small quan- 
tities of these substances entering into finished foods, together with the 
long period during which they have been used without producing marked 
ill effects, are put forward as points in favour of the view that the damper 
to be feared is greatly exaggerated. Without expressing an opinion upon 
the physiological aspects of the question, it must be remarked that the use 
of alum in bread is strictly prohibited, and that the use of such powders in 
confectionery is also liable to be attended by unpleasant consequences in 
those districts where officials holding pronounced opinions upon this subject 
administer the Food and Drugs Act. 

Alum is readily detected by means of the logwood test. A small por- 
tion of the powder to be tested should be made into a paste, with a little 
Test for Alum water and two cubic centimetres of a fresh alcoholic tincture 
in Powders. gf logwood added; then add another two cubic centimetres 
of saturated ammonium carbonate solution to ensure alkalinity. If alum 
is present, a more or less purple colour will result, becoming more pro- 
nounced on drying. In the absence of alum the colour will be pink. 

The other sulphate powders in common use are potassium hydrogen 
sulphate and sodium hydrogen sulphate. The reaction with these salts is 
as follows: — 

Residue left in goods. 

I. KHSO4 + NaHCOg = KNaSO^ + B^O + CO^ 

Potassium hydrogen Sodium Potassium sodium Water. Carbon 

sulphate. bicarbonate. sulphate. dioxide. 

II. NaHSO^ + NaHCOg = Na^SO^ + Kfl + COo 

Sodium hydrogen Sodium Sodium Water. Carbon 

sulphate. bicarbonate. sulphate. dioxide. 

Both the residual salts are strongly purgative, and for this reason the 
sulphates are not to be recommended as constituents of baking powders. 
„ . , , The sulphates may be detected by making a solution of the 

Sulphate powder, and filtering clear. To the clear solution add a few 
Powders. drops of hydrochloric acid until the solution is distinctly acid, 
then add a drop or two of barium chloride solution. A heavy white 



REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GLASGOW 
BAKING TRADE 

Sir William Bilsland, Bart., born in Stirlingshire in 1847, 
spent his early years on a farm, and in 1869 started business as 
a grocer in Glasgow. Three years later he opened a bakery, from 
which has developed the large firm of Bilsland Brothers, now 
including also the old-established concern of Gray, Dunn, & Co. 
Elected to the Town Council in 1886, he became Lord Provost and 
Lord Lieutenant of Glasgow in 1905. He is a fellow of the Society 
of Antiquaries of Scotland and a member of the Royal Scottish 
Geographical Society. He was created a Baronet in 1907. 

John Stevenson, born in Glasgow in 1847, was educated at 
the High School and Helensburgh Academy. He served an 
apprenticeship in a law office, but abandoned the law to join his 
father and brother in the business of corn and flour merchants. In 
1867 the firm acquired a baking concern and installed machinery, 
then little used in bread-making. The business of J. & B. Steven- 
son has grown steadily, and now has large bakeries in Glasgow 
and London. Mr. Stevenson has been Deacon of the Incorpora- 
tion of Bakers and President of the Corn Trade Benevolent 
Association. 

James Macfarlane, born in Glasgow in 1857, was educated 
in the High School and University, and received his first business 
training in a shipowner's office. In 1878 he joined his father's 
baking firm of Macfarlane, Lang, & Co. He was President of the 
Scottish Association of Master Bakers in 1900. In 1893 he was 
Deacon of the Incorporation of Bakers, and in 1899 Deacon Con- 
vener of Trades. 

William Beattie, born in the North of Ireland in 1853, settled 
in Glasgow in 1866, and served his apprenticeship to baking. He 
started business on his own account in 1876, and is now head of 
the Dennistoun Bakery, which has a great reputation for hand- 
made bread. He is a leading member of the Royal Glasgow 
Institute of the Fine Arts. 



1 




Sir WILLIAM BILSLAND, Bart. 



JOHN STEVENSON 




JAMES MACFARLANE WILLIAM BEATTIE 

REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GLASGOW BAKING TRADE 



BAKING POWDERS 243 

precipitate indicates the presence of sulphates. Since alum will also yield 
this reaction, the logwood test should also be applied if it is desired to 
differentiate between alum and the alkali sulphates. 

Phosphate Powders 

The phosphate powders are by far the most successful substitutes for 
tartrates in baking powders, and most of the cream powders with which 
the market is now flooded are compounded with acid phosphates phosphate 
of calcium (lime), potassium, or ammonium, either alone or in Powders, 
admixture with proportions of tartrates and sulphates, and sometimes even 
alum. 

The calcium salt is obtained by acting upon bone ash with just sufficient 
sulphuric acid to remove two-thirds of its calcium as calcium sulphate, 
thus converting the insoluble tricalcium phosphate into soluble acid cal- 
cium phosphate. These powders are very cheap as compared with tartrate 
powders. 

Cream powders have no definite fixed composition, the compounding of 
them generally being trade secrets, and varying at the caprice of the 
manufacturers. The Horsford-Liebig powder, which is one of the oldest 
of these compositions, has the following proportions: Acid phosphate of 
calcium, 550 parts; sodium bicarbonate, 113 parts; potassium chloride, 100 
parts. About 10 lb. of this mixture is recommended per sack of flour. 
One of the best-known proprietary self-raising flours in this country is 
also made with phosphate powder. 

The reaction when acid calcium phosphate alone is used with sodium 
bicarbonate, is expressed thus — 

Residues left in goods. 

CaH4(P04)2 -I- 2NaHC03 = CaHPO^ + Na2HP04 + 2H2O + 2CO2 

Acid calcium Sodium Calcium hydrogen Disodium Water. Carbon 

phosphate. bicarbonate. phosphate. hydrogen phosphate. dioxide. 

whilst with acid potassium phosphate it is expressed thus — 

Residue left 
in soods. 

KH2PO, + 2NaHC03 = Na.,KP04 + 2H2O + 2C0.^ 

Potassium Sodium Disodium Water. Carbon 

phosphate. bicarbonate. potassium phosphate. dioxide. 

Good phosphate powders will yield 12 to 13 per cent of COg. 

The great advantage of these phosphate powders is found in the low 
aperient action of the residual salts. Furthermore, the phos- properties of 
phates possibly have a certain dietetic value, and they are Phosphate 
entirely free from the danger of contamination by lead, °^ ^"* 
and also arsenic, if the acid used in their manufacture has been reason- 
ably pure. 

Ammonia Powders 

All the baking powders hitherto dealt with leave a saline residue after 
the evolution of gas has been accomplished; the one we now have to 



244 CHEMICAL AERATING AGENTS 

consider differs from all of them in that it is completely resolved into 
Ammonia gaseous compounds under the influence of heat. Ammonium 
Compounds, carbonate, "volatile", or "vol", are the common names by 
which it is known. It is in reality, however, not ammonium carbonate, 
but a mixture of ammonium bicarbonate and ammonium carbamate. The 
substance occurs in hard fibrous lumps, which continually evolve ammonia 
gas. When treated with water, the powder is not decomposed with evo- 
lution of the gas, as in the case of other baking powders, but upon appli- 
cation of heat it is completely dissociated according to the following 
equation : — 

(NH4)2NH2HC03C02 = SNHg + H^O -f- 2CO2 

Arnmoiiium carbamate and Ammonia. Water. Carbon dioxide, 

ammonium bicarbonate. 

The whole of this powder, therefore, becomes gaseous; but although vola- 
tilized, it does not entirely escape from the goods during the baking, and so 
articles made with " vol " can generally be detected by the nose. It is more 
commonly used in biscuits than in any other goods. No danger whatever 
can attach to its use, and in this respect it is one of the safest of baking 
powders. 

The most important test to make when valuing a baking powder is the 
determination of available carbon dioxide, since upon this property depends 
Q , ,p . its practical value to the baker or confectioner. The deter- 
for Aerating mination may be made very easily in a yeast-testing ap- 
-^S^"*^- paratus (fig. 8 in Vol. I, p. 86). A small flask should be 

attached to the apparatus by means of some rubber tubing. Bore the 
cork of the flask with two holes, and connect one by means of a piece 
of glass tube to the rubber tube. Through the other hole pass a thistle 
funnel completely to the bottom of the flask. Into the dry flask place 
about 2 gm. of the powder to be tested, then firmly fix the cork, and 
connect to the gas jar of the yeast apparatus, which should be filled 
with water. When all is ready, pour into the thistle funnel about 50 c.c. 
of water, and warm the mixture in the flask until gas ceases to be given 
off". Allow to cool, and read the volume of gas produced in the gas jar. 
Deduct the volume of water added, e.g. 50 c.c, from the number obtained, 
and the remainder. will be the volume of gas given oflf by the weight of 
baking powder taken. The amount of COg in " vol " cannot be tested in 
this manner, but it may be found by substituting dilute acid for the water 
in the foregoing experiment. Perhaps the best test for vol is to heat 
a portion in a porcelain dish. If pure the salt will be completely vola- 
tilized. 

Other Methods of Aeration 

A method of aerating bread doughs, the invention of Dr. Dauglish, was 
Da li h introduced in 1856. It consists in impregnating the water used 
Aeration for dough-making witli carbon dioxide under pressure. The solu- 
Method. yiity of all gases increases directly with the pressure, and it is 
possible, therefore, to cause water to take up very large amounts of gas by 



BAKING POWDERS 245 

suitable compression; this is indeed the principle of the manufacture of 
soda water and other aerated drinks. 

In the Dauglish system the carbon dioxide was obtained by acting upon 
chalk with sulphuric acid, and absorbing the gas evolved in water in strong 
compression cylinders. The dough was then made in a closed apparatus simi- 
larly under pressure, so that the finished dough was really saturated with 
carbon dioxide gas. Upon baking, this gas by its expansion caused the vesi- 
culation of the loaf. The method has been worked continuously since its 
inception, but has never been adopted by any manufacturers, except the 
company originally exploiting the process. It is well adapted to factory 
working, but requires too much special machinery to be capable of adoption 
by small craftsmen. The bread produced by this method is in most respects 
similar to other unfermented bread. It has the advantage over these 
breads, however, in being free from any saline residues of the reactions. 
The method has been modified in several respects since its introduction. 

Many articles of confectionery depend for their aeration upon the use 
of eggs or other film-producing liquid. By far the most efficacious agent 
for this purpose is white of egg, which, by proper beating or Raising 
whisking, can be made to form a stiflf froth which will stand Properties 
firm, and when heated will expand without bursting the walls ° ^^^' 
of the vesicles. Gluten and blood albumen in a less degree also possess 
similar properties. 

Certain substitutes which are put forward for use in place of eggs, 
however, are of very small value. They generally consist of powdered 
gelatines, and though quite capable of being whipped into ^^^ Substitutes 
a lasting froth, yet they utterly fail to expand when put for Aerating 
into the oven. The explanation for this difference in phy- urposes. 
sical behaviour must be sought in the chemical nature of the substances. 
Albumens, of which white of egg is a typical example, when heated strongly 
are converted into insoluble substances generally of a flexible horny nature 
— in other words, the substance is capable of setting even in presence of 
much water. The gelatines, on the contrary, when heated in this way do 
not harden or set, but actually become softened, and in presence of suflacient 
moisture they melt and form thin liquids. 

Yolk of eggs can also be made to retain air by whipping, but not to 
anything like the same extent as whites, because of the smaller proportion 
of albumen yolk contains, and the presence of larger Raising Powers 
proportions of fat, both these factors tending to prevent °^ ^°^^ °^ ^SS- 
the formation of strong films which produce a froth. This eflfect of oil or 
fat is at once apparent should any become accidentally mixed with white 
of egg which has been separated for beating purposes. 

Fat is largely used by the confectioner as an aerating and shortening 
agent, and familiar instances are to be found in pufif and short p^^ ^^ ^^ 
paste, shortbreads, &c. The mode of operation of fat is best Aerating 
illustrated in puff" paste, where the fat is first made to form a thick ^^"*' 
layer upon the sheet of dough, and then by successive foldings and rollings 



246 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

the two layers are reduced to extreme thinness and piled upon one another. 
If such a dough is cut through, it may be likened to a number of sheets of 
paper closely pressed together, yet each sheet prevented from adhering to 
its neighbours by the grease film which covers it. Now imagine such a 
piece of dough brought into the oven. The moisture in the mass is slowly 
converted into vapour, and in expanding forces the layers apart, since the 
matter forming the layer is too closely compacted to open out on account 
of its impregnation with the melted fat. The paste is thus formed into a 
light friable mass consisting of very thin leaves. 

The lifting power of moisture in pufF pastes is not great, and conse- 
quently considerable care has to be taken not to exert too much force during 
Why Puff working; else the layers become forced into one another, really 
Paste rises. Jq^q their continuity, and allow the steam when produced to 
escape without lifting the layers, a heavy paste being the result. 

In short pastes and shortbread the method of incorporating fat is 
different, and is not designed to bring about the formation of layers. The 
Action of Fat mechanical action of the fat is, however, quite similar to its 
in Short Paste, effects in puff paste, for during the rubbing in, it coats the 
individual particles of the mixing, and isolates them from each other, thus 
preventing any lumping together. When heat is applied, the vapour 
formed in the interior forces these fat -surrounded particles away from 
each other, and a short or open crust is formed having no continuity of 
the binding agent. 



CHAPTER XLII 
BAKERS' FATS: BUTTER 

All greasy substances obtained from animal or vegetable sources may 
be called oils whether they are solids (fats) or liquids. The whole of 
General Pro- the bodies belonging to this class of substances possess the 
perties of Fats, characteristics of unctuousness, i.e. greasy feel, insolubility 
and immiscibility in water, solubility in certain organic liquids, such as 
ether, chloroform, alcohol, carbon disulphide, benzene, turpentine, &c. 
They are all lighter than water, the specific gravity var3ang between 
•910 and "970. They form stains upon paper which cannot be evaporated. 

Fats and oils have no boiling-point, and when heated to about 480°- 
570° F. they are decomposed, the oil becoming dark in colour and emitting 
Action of Heat much acrid vapour (acrolein) and carbon dioxide. When 
on Fats. exposed to air and light, oils gradually undergo change, 

becoming paler in colour and eventually bleached, and acquiring a strong 
unpleasant odour and taste {rancidity). This change in odour and flavour 
Rancidity and of the oil is accompanied by an increase in the amount of 
its Cause. fj.gg fatty acids; but it has been clearly shown by manj 

observers that the quantity of free fatty acids cannot be used as a measure 



BUTTER 



247 



of rancidity. Direct oxidation by contact with air, assisted by the action 
of light, is now considered to be the cause of rancidity. This action of 
air is greatly accelerated by the presence of nitrogenous matters in the 
oil, considerable amounts of which are always to be found in crude or 
badly refined oils. In consequence of its complex nature rancidity cannot 
be determined by purely chemical processes; taste is the ultimate criterion 
to determine whether a given oil is suitable for alimentary purposes. 

Pure fats and oils are neutral in reaction, but owing to their exposure 
to light and air aU commercial oils have a more or less marked acid 
reaction. With one or two exceptions (croton oil, castor oil), Neutrality of 
which contain certain toxic principles, all oils obtained from ^^^^ ^^^^• 
animal or vegetable substances are edible, though many are not used for 
that purpose in Europe by reason of certain harsh or peculiar flavours. 

In chemical composition all naturally occurring oils are now known 
to be complex mixtures of ethereal salts. The base present in these salts 
is glycerol, the acid radicals being various members of the chemical Com- 
group of fatty acids, the lowest member of which is acetic position of Oils, 
acid. The number of these fatty acids is very large. The most important 
for industrial purposes are the following: — 



Acid. 


Formula. 


Acid. 


Formula. 


Butyric 

Valeiic 

Laurie 

Palmitic 

Stearic 


CoH^COOH 
C^H.COOH 
CiiH,,COOH 

Ci,h;cooh 
c,;h3,cooh 


Arachidic 

Oleic 

Linoleic 


C„H39COOH 
C,7H33COOH 
Ci^HgiCOOH 



All these acids are monobasic, i.e. they contain only one atom of replaceable 
hydrogen, and this is exhibited in the formula by separating the group 
containing this hydrogen. Glycerol belongs to the alcohol series of com- 
pounds. Its chemical formula is 03115(011)3. The termination "in" is 
applied generally to all combinations of glycerol with fatty acids to form 
glycerides or fats, e.g. butyrin, stearin, laurin, olein, linolein. 

Like other salts these glycerides may be broken up into their con- 
stituent acids and glycerol by suitable reagents. The process Hydrolysis 
in the case of fats is called hydrolysis. Thus treatment of °f ^^^s- 
a fat with steam at high pressure, or heating with sulphuric acid, yields 
glycerol and fatty acid according to the following equation: — 

(Ci5H3iCO,)3C3H5 -h 3H,0 = 03H,(OH)3 + 3C,5H3i-COOH 

Palmitin. Water. Glycerol. Palmitic acid. 

This process is largely employed in the manufacture of candles, &c., and 
in the production of rancidity it probably also plays a part. Saponifica- 
When certain other reagents, such as the alkalies, are em- ^ion of Fats, 
ployed to decompose fats the reaction is called saponification. In such 



248 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

cases the alkali combines with the acid radical to form a new salt called 
a soap. This is represented by the equation — 

(CiyHggCCJgCsHs + 3NaOH = C3H5(OH)3 + SCi^HgiCOONa 

Olein. Sodium hydrate. Glycerol Sodium oleate (soap). 

When soda is employed a solid or hard soap results, and when potash is 
used soft soap is produced as a result of this combination. In baking. 
Action of ^^® ^^® ^^ excessive quantities of sodium carbonate as an 

Alkali on Fat aerating agent in goods containing fat would result in the 
a ing. conversion of some of the fat into soaps, with consequent 

decrease of nutritive and digestive properties, the soaps being slightly 
purgative in their action. 

The consistency of the fats and oils depends entirely upon the pro- 
portions in which the chief constituents are present. Now the chief 
Basis of Dif- constituents of all the common fats and oils are stearin, pal- 
ferent Fats. mitin, and olein, the other glycerides occurring only in small 
quantity. Stearin is a hard solid fat at ordinary temperatures; palmitin 
is solid, but of a more buttery nature, whilst olein is liquid. In the hard 
solid fats, such as tallow and mutton fat, stearin predominates; in the 
softer solid fats, like beef fat, palmitin is present in largest amount, or, as 
in hog's fat, a considerable quantity of olein is present; whilst the liquid 
oils are composed chiefly of olein. This is of importance to the baker, for 
the tough character so important for paste-making will depend upon the 
Physical Pro- pi'esence of a due proportion of stearin and palmitin, and on 
parties of the other hand sufficient of the softer olein must be present 

a ers ats. j£ ^ ^^^ ^^ ^^ possess good creaming properties. The manu- 
facturer of butter substitutes thus has it in his power to obtain either 
property at will, and there is no reason why the individual baker by 
judicious selection should not compound his own fats if he is prepared 
to take the trouble. 

Fats are introduced into bread and confectionery for a variety of 
reasons. They increase the nutritive value; this, however, is by no means 
Why Fats ^^® primary reason for their use by the baker and confec- 
are used by tioner. In bread they improve the texture and sheen, and 
* ^ ^ ^^' impart richness to the eating qualities. In cakes and pastry 
they exert well-known shortening properties, and upon the body of the 
fat used depends largely the quality of the product. Finally, fat is used 
for the flavour it imparts. In this respect butter stands alone; all other 
fats, however well they may fulfil the other requirements, fail entirely to 
produce the characteristic mellow flavour yielded by pure butter. 

Butter 

Butter is the typical fat for confectionery purposes. It consists of the 
fat of milk, together with small quantities of curd, milk sugar, and salts. 
This substance is produced by churning milk, or more usually cream, by 
which process the tiny globules of fat are caused to coalesce and form 



BUTTER 



249 



granules. The fine spongy mass, containing much liquid milk, is next 
worked to remove the liquid portion until it forms a homogeneous mass, 
which is then ready for market. The following is the average normal 
composition of pure butter according to Konig: — 



Fat 


87-0 


Casein (cmd) 


0-5 


Milk sugar 


0-3 


Ash 


0-3 


Water 


11-7 



Chemical Com- 
position of Butter. 



Owing to the method of manufacture, butter is liable to variations in 
its composition, chiefly in the percentage of water contained. It is illegal 
(Butter and Margarine Act, 1907) to sell butter containing more water in 
than sixteen per cent of water. Recently there has been put Butter, 
upon the market a mixture made by churning milk into butter; it is sold 
as Milk-blended Butter, but a distinctive name is to be Milk-blended 
devised for it by the Board of Agriculture. By this process Butter, 
the moisture is greatly increased, but the Act already referred to makes it 
illegal to sell this kind of butter with more than twenty-four per cent of 
water, and the actual percentage of water or moisture must be declared 
on the wrapper. The great fault to be found with such butter, apart from 
the excess of moisture, is its greatly deteriorated keeping quality, in spite 
of the presence of boric acid preservatives. 

Pure butter fat is a complex mixture of the glycerides of butyric, 
caproic, capric, caprylic, palmitic, stearic, and oleic acids. About 7 per 
cent of the fatty acids are soluble in water, and this very Composition of 
high percentage forms one of the most characteristic Butter Fat. 
features of butter fat, so that upon a determination of these acids the 
analyst is frequently able to form an opinion of the purity of the sample. 
The composition of butter fat was found by Bell to be as follows: — 

Butyric acid 

Caproic, capric, and caprylic acids 

Palmitic, stearic, and myristic acids 

Oleic acid 

Glycerol ... 



613 
2-09 
49-46 
3610 
12-54 
106-32 



Of the insoluble fatty acids oleic is the most abundant, and conse- 
quently the melting-point of butter is very low, about 31° to 34° C. (88° to 
^21^ F.). The fat of the human body is also largely composed of olein, and 
the close approximation of butter to human fat largely explains the ready 
digestibility of butter fat. Butter is very apt to turn rancid. Some of 
the glycerides become decomposed with liberation of the free fatty acids, 
notably butyric acid, which gives the butter a very offensive odour and 
flavour. This decomposition is largely dependent upon the presence of 
Vol. I. 32 



250 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

nitrogenous matter in the form of curd; and when all foreign substances 
Influence of are removed from the fat, butter may be kept indefinitely. 

Curd in Butter, "pj^g butter is melted and kept hot until all water is driven 
off; this is known to be the case when all crackling ceases. The liquid 
fat is then strained through muslin, poured into bottles, and cooled. If 
kept well corked it will remain good for any length of time. In hot 
climates this process is extensively used (Indian Ghee). 

Perfectly pure butter is frequently almost pui'e white, and is seldom 
more than very pale yellow. For the market, however, it is usually 
Colouring coloured by means of vegetable colouring matters, e.g. annatto, 
of Butter. turmeric, saffron, &c. Upon exposure to light butter loses its 
colour, and becomes tallowy in taste and smell. The peculiar aroma and 
flavour of butter are due to the presence of micro-organisms which take 
an active part in the ripening of the cream. This is proved by the fact 
Cause of that the desired odour and taste are not found in sweet cream 
Flavour. butter, or butter made from sterilized cream, both of which 
have insipid flavours. This question has been very fully studied during 
recent years, notably in America, where pure cultures of the bacteria pre- 
pared in the laboratory have been distributed to the dairies; and by this 
means the well-known "June flavour", only found in certain districts for 
short seasons of the year, can now be artificially produced at any time. 

Commercially butter is valued not only for purity as determined by 
chemical tests, but also for odour and flavour. Such valuation requires 
c mmerciai ^^P^^t skill which can Only be acquired after long experience. 
Value of Adulteration is now practised upon a most extensive scale. 
Butter. Y,^^ ig practically confined to the admixture of small quantities 

of foreign fats, the non-fatty adulterants being too easy of detection. 
Adulteration has kept pace with the advance of analytical knowledge, and 
Adulterants mixtures are now made which will closely conform to the 
in Butter. standards of the public analysts. The detection of small 

quantities of foreign fats, such as lard, goose grease, cotton-seed oil, cocoa- 
nut oil, palm-nut oil, and margarine, involves the possession of considerable 
Butter analytical skill, and should be entrusted to a trained chemist. 
Analysis. The examination for water, curd, salt, and preservatives will, 
however, be found useful at times to detect the grosser forms of adultera- 
tion. 

Moisture is best determined by drying 5 or 10 gm. of the sample at 
105° C. (221° F.) in a small weighed dish until all crackling has ceased. 
Cool and reweigh; the loss is equivalent to water. The percentage is 
found by multiplying the loss by 100, and dividing by the weight of fat 
taken. 

Salt. — The fat should be burnt off, preferably in a fume chamber. The 
residue may be taken as salt, and calculated as a percentage in the same 
manner as moisture. Salt in butter should not exceed 3 per cent in mild 
butters, but may rise to 5 or even 10 per cent in salt or pickled butters. 

Curd or Casein. — Drive the water off a weighed portion of the sample 



BUTTER 251 

(5 gm.). Carefully decant the clear fat from the solid residue; then wash 
the residue with ether or hot amyl alcohol, decanting the liquid each time 
after the solid has settled. Finally, dry the residue and weigh. This 
represents curd and salt. Deduct the salt already found, and the remainder 
is curd. 

Foreign Fats. — The fat may be examined by Valentas test, which is 
useful for indicating admixtures of large amounts of foreign fats. A test- 
tube is graduated by running from a burette two quantities of Valenta's 
3 c.c. of water; make a file scratch indicating each graduation. '^^^^• 
Dry the tube and then introduce 3 c.c. of the melted clear fat and 3 c.c. 
of acetic acid of 99 per cent strength. Warm the mixture to 40° C. 
(104° F.), when, if the sample is butter fat, the contents of the tube will 
become clear. If margarine is present it will not dissolve below 75° C. 
(167° F.). The best way to carry out this test is by immersing a ther- 
mometer in the mixture. When the solution is clear, remove the tube from 
the flame, and while stirring observe the liquid carefully. As soon as a 
turbidity is seen following the bulb of the thermometer note the tempera- 
ture. Another test useful for sorting out samples has been put forward 
by A. W, Stokes. Place a small portion of the unmelted Microscopic 
butter upon a glass microscope slide; press a cover glass ^^^^ *^°'' Butter, 
upon it, and examine with 1-in. or |-in. objective with polarized light. 
Genuine butter appears almost uniformly dark throughout the whole field, 
but if crystalline fats like margarine are present, more or less well-marked 
lighting of the field will be observed. This test is rapid, but should not 
be accepted as conclusive, because old butters may show somewhat crystal- 
line appearance. 

Preservatives. — Formerly the only preservative added to butter was 
salt; but with the advance of chemical knowledge many other substances 
have been proposed. The chief substances used are: boric acid, salicylic 
acid, formalin, and fluorides. 

Of these hoiHc acid is the most important. There is a difference of 
opinion among dietetic authorities as to whether it is harmful or not. The 
recommendations of the Preservatives Committee limit the amount of 
boric acid which should be present in butter to 5 per cent, and they 
strongly recommend that no preservative of any kind should be used in 
food intended for infants or invalids. The recognition of boric Test for 
acid is comparatively easy. A portion of the butter should Boric Acid, 
be reduced to ash after adding a little carbonate of soda. To the ash add 
a few c.c. of concentrated sulphuric acid and a little alcohol; then apply 
a light. If boric acid is present a green-tinged flame results. The reaction 
is delicate, allowing of the detection of 01 per cent of the acid. Practically 
all imported butters contain some boric preservative. 

Salicylic acid is seldom used now. It gives a violet colour with 
ferric chloride. After extraction of the watery portion Test for 
with ether evaporate the ether, take up the residue in a Salicylic Acid, 
little water, and add a few drops of ferric chloride. 



252 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

Formalin is more frequently used in milk. It may be detected by 
Test for Hehner's method. Add to a portion of the melted fat a little 
Formalin, milk, and then carefully pour down the side of the tube an 
■equal bulk of strong sulphuric acid. A violet colour at the junction of 
the liquids indicates the presence of formalin. 

Fluorides are now used at times, especially in butters coming from 
Brittany. Melt a portion of butter, separate the watery layer, and make 
Test for Fluorides it alkaline with carbonate of soda. Evaporate to dryness 
in Butter. ^nd put the residue in a lead or platinum dish; add a few 

•drops of concentrated sulphuric acid and cover with a waxed watch glass 
upon which a few marks have been made with a sharp point. If fluorides 
^re present the marks will be etched into the glass wherever exposed. 

Renovated butter, or process butter, is largely made in the United 
States, where the output has reached some 5,000,000 lb. per annum. It 
Renovated is prepared from unsaleable, rancid butter by melting it and 
Butter. separating the fat from the watery layer and curd. The fat 

is next "blown" with air to remove the objectionable flavour, and then 
quickly cooled so as to prevent the separation of the liquid from the more 
solid fats. The cooled fat is afterwards churned again with fresh milk, 
to which suitable bacterial cultures have been added to obtain the requisite 
flavour. The milk sours and forms an artificial curd, which contains about 
the same amount of nitrogen as the curd of genuine butter. It is im- 
possible to detect renovated butter by chemical methods, the proportions 
of the various constituents being usually carefully regulated to simulate 
pure butter. Crampton obtained the following mean percentage com- 
position from some 75 analyses of renovated butter: — 



Fat 


82-05 


Curd 


1-47 


Ash 


2-85 


Water 


14-44 



Hess and Doolittle state that process butter does not yield a clear fat 
layer when melted even upon long standing, whereas genuine butter fat 
•clears very quickly after melting. 

Clarified Butter is a term often used by confectioners. This is butter 
which has been melted and from which the scum that rises to the top has 
been skimmed. This scum consists of the casein, and some of the water is 
also drawn off" by heating. 

Butter, suet, dripping, cocoa butter, &c., are rarely purified before send- 
ing to market. For most of these naturally occurring cooking fats substi- 
General C m- ^.utes are now manufactured by the admixture of various 
position of animal and vegetable oils and fats. To this there can be 

1 e ats. little objection from a sanitary or dietetic point of view, the 
use of the cheaper and quite as nutritive oils being perfectly legitimate 
so long as they are sold under their proper names. 



MARGARINE, LARD, ETC. 253 

CHAPTER XLIII 

BAKERS' FATS: MARGARINE, LARD, ETC. 

Margarine 

Butter substitutes were originally known by a vast variety of names, 
all of which are now suppressed by law in favour of margarine. The 
production of a satisfactory substitute for butter was worked Butter Substi- 
out to a manufacturing process by the French chemist M. tutes. 
Mege Mouries in 1870, at the instance of Napoleon III. All butter substi- 
tutes consist of mixtures of animal and vegetable fats and oil, coloured 
with annatto or some aniline dye, e.g. methyl orange. It is absolutely 
essential that the ingredients used be perfectly pure and fresh. 

The animal oils generally used are oleo oil and neutral lard, both 
ingredients being prepared from the freshest beef or hog fat. The fat 
must be removed from the animal as quickly as possible, Animal Fat 
washed, sorted, and put aside to cool and harden. The fat Extraction, 
is then shredded in a machine and finally ground into a pulpy mass. This 
is next put into tin-lined vessels and heated to not more than 45° C. 
(113° F.). The more liquid portion of the fat separates, and salt is freely 
spread over it to aid separation and clearing. This liquid fat, technically 
known as "premier jus", is run off into shallow trays and put aside to cool, 
when the bulk of the stearin separates as a solid. The crystalline paste 
is then cut up and the pieces brought into a hydraulic press, and the 
liquid fat separated. This oleo oil which runs from the presses forms 
the main ingredient of margarine. 

Among the vegetable oils used cotton-seed oil and cotton-seed stearin 
are most frequently employed. The quality of the oil used depends upon 
the quality of margarine to be made, but in any case the oil vegetable Oils 
must be perfectly free from fatty acids. The best cotton- *" ^^^• 
seed oil is known in America as butter oil. Arachis, olive, and sesame oils 
are largely used in Europe, and recently refined cocoa-nut oil has come into 
use as a constituent of margarine. The oleo oil and vegetable oils, with 
a suitable proportion of pasteurized and skimmed milk, are next churned 
at a slightly raised temperature, the object being to prevent the tendency 
of oleomargarine to crystallize, and also to pulverize the mass into butter- 
like globules, producing a complete emulsion. After churning, the mass 
is cooled as rapidly as possible by circulating cold water through the jacket 
of the churning machine, and the margarine is then run into Method of 
marble or slate cooling tanks. While running out, the mass Margarine 
is made to come in contact with a strong current of ice 
water, wliich thoroughly pulverizes the margarine and solidifies the 
globules of fat so as to resemble butter granules. The mass Constituents 
next goes upon a kneading table, where salt and colouring '" Margarine, 
matter are worked in and excess of moisture is removed. The following 



254 



CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 



is claimed to be the composition of the three chief grades of margarine 
as made in the United States: — 





High-grade. 


Medium. 


Low-grade. 


Oleo oil ... 


100 


315 


459 


Neutral lard 


130 


500 


265 


Butter ... 


95 


— 





Cream ... 


— 


280 





Cotton-seed oil ... 


— 


— . 


315 


Milk 


— 


280 


255 


Salt 


32 


120 


120 


Colour ... 


0-5 


1-5 


1-25 



In low-grade products maize oil is sometimes used, but it imparts 
a grainjT^ flavour to the margarine. In Europe lard is not used to 
any extent, and beef fat is substituted in this country exclusively. 
Mutton fat is used on the Continent, but it imparts an unpleasant animal 
flavour. 

The chief object of the manufacturer is to remove the tallowy flavour 
which characterizes margarine, and, where allowed by law, this is usually 
accomplished by adding pure butter. In this country 10 per cent is the 
maximum amount of butter permitted to be used, in accordance with the 
act of 1899. Other methods consist in adding small proportions of volatile 
acids, aldehydes, and glycerides, or butter perfumes, which consist princi- 
pally of volatile ethers such as propionic, butyric, and caproic ethers. 
Another important point aimed at is to produce a margarine which froths 
and browns like genuine butter when cooking. In genuine butter these 
properties are due to the presence of milk sugar and casein, and conse- 
quently the more milk that is used in making margarine the nearer this 
object is approached. In countries where the quantity of milk to be 
added is limited by law, patents have been taken out for the addition 
of a variety of substances said to produce similar effects. Among others, 
albuminoids, casein, waxes, bees'-wax, and cholesterol may be mentioned. 
The average composition of margarine is as follows: — 



Average Composition 
of Margarine. 



Water 


9-3 


Proteid (curd) 


1-3 


Fat 


82'7 


Ash 


6-7 



From this it will be seen that the fat is present in almost the same pro- 
portion as in average butter. The composition of the fat differs from that 
of genuine butter in the relatively large amount of stearic acid and very- 
low percentage of the soluble fatty acids, as evidenced by the following 
partial analysis of Partheil and Ferie: — 



MARGARINE, LAKD, ETC. 



L'oo 



Nature of 
Fatty Acids in 
Margarine. 



Stearic acid 


19-14 


Palmitic acid 


6-08 


Myristic acid 


U-33 


Lauiic acid 


7-04 


Unsaturated acids, e.g. Oleic, &c. 


47-06 



The low amount of volatile fatty acids may even be claimed as a 
point in favour of margarine, since when butter turns rancid it is these 
volatile acids which are liberated and cause the un- Keeping Properties 
pleasant flavour and odoui-. The smaller quantities of °^ Margarine, 
protein are also in favour of margarine, since there is less tendency to 
rancidity. From a physiological point of view there is still some differ- 
ence of opinion. It is held by some authorities that margarine is less 
digestible than butter, but, on the other hand, Hutchison is of opinion 
that margarine is almost as completely absorbed as butter, 102 lb. of 
margarine being equivalent to 100 lb. of butter. The deficiency of soluble 
fatty acids in margarine has been to some extent overcome of late by the 
use of cocoa-nut oil and palm-nut oil, which are being used in some 
margarines to the extent of 30 to 40 per cent. 

Hehner gives the following as a good test for margarine which contains 
no butter. Heat a portion of the fat with a small quantity Test for 
of alcoholic caustic potash. If any butter is present there will Margarine, 
be an odour of ethyl butyrate (pear essence). With margarine containing 
no butter no such odour will be obtained. 

The melting-point of margarine ranges from 34° to 40° C. (93°-104° F.), 
and its specific gravity is •859--863. 



Vegetable Butters. 



Vegetable Butters 

In order to supply the huge population of India, whose religious tenets 
forbid the use of beef or hog fats as food, a butter substitute was prepared 
from cocoa-nut oil and palm-nut oil. It has, however, 
since found considerable favour in Europe among vegeta- 
rians, and is also extensively used in confectionery and as a cooking fat. 
It is sold under a great variety of fancy names, e.g. lactine, vdgetaline, 
cocaline, laureol, nucoline, palmine, cocose, albene, kunerol, &c. The best 
brand of cocoa-nuts (Cochin) is used for the preparation. The selected 
kernels are ground and pressed in hydraulic presses. The oil obtained is 
purified and freed from fatty acids by treatment with alcohol and charcoal, 
or by neutralizing with magnesia. The resulting butter is a soft white fat, 
consisting practically of pure cocoa-nut or palm-nut oil. 

Another kind of vegetable butter consists almost entirely of cotton-seed 
stearin (see p. 260); it is known as " vegaline ", " cottolene ", " electol ", &c. 



256 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

Lard 

Next to butter, lard is the most important fat used in confectionery and 

baking, and for many years it was the only substitute for butter. The 

term lard is now applied to all fat obtained by melting hog's fat, 

from whatever part of the animal it is obtained. At one time, 

however, the term was limited to fat obtained from the omentum or leaf 

(kidney and bowel membrane). The great bulk of the lard coming into 

commerce is manufactured in America, and according to Dr. Wiley it is 

usual to recognize the following classes: — 

Neutral No. 1 oi Leaf Lard is rendered from pure leaf carefully selected, 

r. . , T . at temperatures of 45° to 50' C. (113° to 122° F.). The 
Grades of Lard. , . „ . . 

resultmg fat is practically neutral, and is used exclusively 

in the manufacture of margarine. 

Neutral No. '2. — This consists of back fat rendered at the same tem- 
perature, and as carefully as No. 1. It is chiefly used by bakers, biscuit- 
makers, and confectioners. 

Kettle Lard. — This is a harder lard, obtained from the residues from 
No. 1 lard rendered under pressure. This lard has a melting-point about 
45° C. (113° F.). 

Prime Steam Lard. — This is an inferior variety obtained from trim- 
mings and all fat parts of the animal. Melting-point about 38° C. 
(100° F.). 

Pure lard has a salve-like consistence and granular texture. In colour it 
is perfectly white, and it possesses an agreeable taste. The lower qualities 
Properties are somewhat insipid in flavour. Fresh lard is practically 
of Lard. neutral, but upon exposure to air it gradually becomes acid in 
reaction. Pure lard varies in specific gravity from '931 to '932, and in 
melting-point from 42° to 48° C. (107° to 118° F.). The fatty acids present 
in lard are palmitic, stearic, oleic, lauric, myristic, the oleic being the pre- 
dominating acid. 

Lard is largely adulterated. At one time the product was always 
sold as "refined lard". Some refined lards coming from America have 
been found upon analysis to consist entirely of cotton- 
seed oil, mixed with just sufficient beef stearin to give 
it the requisite consistency. The application of the Food and Drugs 
Act has caused these products to be marketed as " compound lards " during 
recent years. It is claimed, however, in America that cotton-seed oil im- 
proves lard, whilst the addition of 5 per cent of beef stearin is said to be 
necessary to stiffen it. Artificial lard solidifies to a coarsely crystalline 
mass with a polished surface, whilst genuine lard is finely crystalline, with 
a dull wrinkled surface. Owing to the practice of feeding hogs upon maize 
and cotton-seed cake, modern lards are much softer and more buttery than 
formerly. Indeed, lard rendered from such hogs will yield the special tests 
for cotton-seed oil, so that positive results with the Halphen or Becchi 
tests cannot be taken as evidence of fraudulent adulteration. An older 



EDIBLE OILS 257 

form of sophistication, seldom practised now, consisted in the addition of 
water. This was accomplished by beating the lard with water in whisking 
machines. 

Pure lard should be neutral, and of a bland pleasant taste and odour. 
When melted practically no water should be found in it, and the fat should 
be quite clear and free from suspended particles of membrane. Lard 
&c. Lard substitutes consist chiefly of lard stearin, or lard Substitutes, 
mixed with beef fat, cotton-seed stearin, cotton-seed oil, maize oil, arachis 
oil, sesame oil. These substitutes are made by simply churning the molten 
fats and oils together, and then cooling rapidly. 

Artificial Suets 

Artificial suets are cooking fats sold as substitutes for suet or dripping. 
They are generally mixtures of suet, tallow, and cotton-seed stearin. They 
possess a consistence between that of tallow and lard which 
depends upon the quantity of cotton-seed oil present. Such 
fats are sometimes flavoured with onions, &c., to resemble dripping more 
closely. 

Chocolate Fats and Cocoa Butter Substitutes 

The manufacture of chocolate, calling, as it does, for the employment 
of large quantities of cocoa butter, a demand has arisen for cheaper fats to- 
take its place. For this purpose animal fats are unsuitable, because they 
impart a distinct flavour to the chocolate which is unpleasant. Vege- 
table fats are therefore chiefly used. At present refined cocoa-nut 
and palm-nut oils are used. The pure oils being too soft, the stearins 
are separated in the same way as oleo stearin, that is, by melting and 
cooling the fat to crystallizing point, then pressing the pasty mass to remove- 
the olein. According to the time the mass remains under pressure, so the 
melting-point of the residual stearins becomes higher. The melting-point 
of these stearins is still too low for manufacturing purposes, however, and 
they are therefore strengthened by the addition of small amounts of animal 
fats. In examining such fats the most important fact is to determine the 
melting-point. It should be about 31° to 33° C. (88° to 91° F.). 



CHAPTER XLIV 

EDIBLE OILS 



Most vegetable oils are suitable for edible purposes and preserving; 
hence practically all the oils may be and are employed thus. In India, 
for instance, both rape and linseed are readily marketable for 
food, though they are seldom used in Europe, being substituted 
by the smoother flavoured oils, such as olive, cotton, and sesame oils. Oils- 

Vol. I 33 



258 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

intended for food purposes are always refined by physical methods, the 
use of mineral acids as purifying agents introducing objectionable flav'ours. 
Alkaline reagents are not so bad, and are used to some extent. The 
general method of refining consists in extracting the oil by hydraulic 
pressure in the cold — "cold-drawn". The crude oil is then ti-eated with 
boiling water or steam, and filtered to remove suspended matter and 
moisture. If it is necessary to decolorize the oil, it is treated with 
charcoal or fuller's earth and again filtered under pressure. Chief atten- 
tion is directed to as complete a removal of free acids, mucilaginous 
and albuminous bodies as possible, since their presence predisposes the 
oil to rancidity. Edible oils should not congeal at low temperatures. 
As a rule olive oil conforms to this demand, but many other oils, such 
a.s cotton-seed oil, must be " demargarinated" before marketing. Cotton- 
seed oil deposits stearin at 40° F., and originally demargarinating was 
accomplished by-storing it through the winter, when the stearin deposited 
and the clear oil could be decanted off. In modern establishments the 
oil is cooled in refrigerators and the separation made by filter-pressing 
the pasty sludge. The term edible or table oil is no longer to be regarded 
as denoting a single oil. Practically all table oils are now blends, and 
it is only when such are sold as olive or other specific oil that these 
mixtures are to be considered as adulterations. All natural oils are 
slightly acid in reaction; a perfectly neutral oil is insipid in flavour. 

Olive Oil 

Olive oil, also called salad oil and sweet oil, has a specific gravity at 
15° C. (59° F.) of -914; solidifying-point, 3°-4° C. (37°-39° F.) It is obtained 
from the fruit of the thornless olive, Olea europcea saliva. The 
finest oil is expressed from hand-picked and peeled olives; a 
second grade is obtained from the whole olive, and low grades from the 
kernels by pressure and the use of solvents. Olive oil varies greatly in 
colour; good oils may be anything between colourless and golden yellow. 
Some oils are tinged green owing to the presence of dissolved chlorophyll; 
these are generally low-class oils. The value of olive oil depends greatly 
Adulteration upon its flavour, and this varies with the locality in which 
of Olive Oil. \)[yQ olives are grown. The Tuscany fruits generally possess 
a more agreeable flavour than those grown in the Ligurian district. The 
rank, harsh taste of some of these oils disappears upon keeping some time. 
The fatty acids of olive oil consist principally of oleic, linoleic, palmitic, and 
arachidic acids. On account of its high dietetic value olive oil is adulterated 
enormously, the commonest adulterant being cotton-seed oil, which is fre- 
quently entirely substituted for it. Other oils used for this purpose are 
sesame, rape, poppy, arachis, and lard oils. The detection of certain of 
these substitutes is not particularly difficult when they are present in 
considerable quantity, but the ingenuity of the adulterator is directed 
chiefly to the addition of a small quantity of a mixture of oils which have 



EDIBLE OILS 259 

the effect of neutralizing each other, so that detection of the fraud becomes 
a matter of great delicacy which can only be successfully Tests for 
undertaken by an expert oil chemist. The following oils can Adulterants, 
be detected when present in large quantity, or substituted entirely for 
olive oil: — 

Pea-nut oil reveals its presence by the bean-like odour and flavour 
which it possesses. 

Lard oil yields the characteristic odour of lard when a portion of it 
is warmed. 

Cocoa-nut oil in from 12-15 per cent admixture causes the sample to 
solidify when placed in ice water. 

Cotton-seed oil may be detected by the Becchi test (see under Cotton- 
seed oil, p. 260). 

Sesame oil can be recognized by means of Baudouin's test (see under 
Sesame oil, p. 261), 

Almond Oil 

Almond oil has a specific gravity at 15° C. (59" F.) of •914-920: 
solidifying- point, —10° C. (-f 14° F.). This oil must not be confounded 
with oil of bitter almonds, i.e. essence of almonds (see Chap. L, 
p. 291). The oil is expressed from the seeds of the sweet and 
bitter almond tree, Prunus amygdalus dulcis and Prunus ainygdalus 
atnara. In colour it is pale yellow, and it has a bland taste. The oil is 
largely adulterated, but usually only with peach kernel or apricot kernel 
oil; indeed much foreign almond oil consists entirely of these oils. Peach 
kernel oil may be detected by shaking 3 parts of the oil with 1 part nitric 
acid of 1'4 specific gravity. Almond oil yields a light-yellow colour turning 
brown, whilst peach kernel oil gives a bright-red colour. Almond oil con- 
sists almost entirely of olein, and as it does not become quickly rancid it 
is used to a large extent in pharmaceutical preparations. 

Arachis Oil 

Common names for this oil are pea-nut, ground-nut, and earth-nut oil. 
Its specific gravity at 15° C. (59° F.) is 919; solidifying-point, -25° C. 
(-|-27"5° F.). This oil is extracted from the seeds of the 
creeping plant Arachis hypogcea, a member of the order 
Leguminosse. The best-quality oils are obtained by cold pressure of the 
dried seeds; they are colourless, and possess a pleasant kidney-bean flavour. 
By further pressure of the moistened residues a yellow oil of inferior 
value is obtained, which is sometimes sold as butterine oil. In its chemical 
and physical characters arachis closely resembles olive oil, of which it 
frequently forms an adulterant. When present in only small amount its 
detection is a matter of considerable difficulty, depending upon the sepa- 
ration of arachidic acid, a fatty acid peculiar to this oil, and occurring 
to the extent of about 5 per cent. When arachis oil is used in large 



260 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

quantity in admixture with other oils its peculiar odour and flavour will 
enable it to be recognized. Arachis oil is largely produced in Holland 
and France, in which countries it is used as a substitute for olive oil, and 
also to a very large extent in the making of confectionery. 

COTTON-SEED OiL 

Cotton-seed oil has a specific gravity at 15° C. (59° F.) of -922 to -930; 

solidifying point, 3° to 4° C. (37° to 39° F.). This oil is obtained from the 

, ^.. seeds of various species of Gossypium, belonp-ingf to the 
Cotton-seed Oil „ , m- , ■, • t t -A ... 

mallow order, now cultivated in India, Jligypt, America, &c. 

The seeds are hulled and then crushed, the mass being then placed in bags 
and submitted to hydraulic pressure, first in the cold and afterwards hot. 
The oil expressed from the seeds is dark red, almost black. On treating 
with caustic potash the upper layers become blue and afterwards violet, a 
characteristic reaction of cotton-seed oil. Just sufficient caustic is added to 
carry down these colouring matters in the soap formed, and the clear oil is 
then drawn off and washed. The refined oil is pale yellow^ in colour, possess- 
ing a bland taste and pleasant odour. Owing to the method of refining with 
alkalies, cotton-seed oil usually contains only about 1 per cent of free fatty 
acids. Cotton-seed oil is very suitable for edible purposes, but owing to 
popular prejudice its sale under its proper name has been very restricted, 
and it is generally marketed under some fancy designation, as table oil, 
sweet-nut oil, butter oil, &c. In addition to this it is frequently used to 
adulterate olive oil, and it enters largely into the manufacture of cooking 
fats, margarine, and compound lards. Commercial oils are known as 
SurriTner Oils and Winter Oils, the difference being that, from the winter 
oil some of the stearin has been removed, so that the oil will no longer 
solidify during cold weather. Such oil is said to be " demargarinated ". 
The by-product, or solid cotton stearin, is a yellow buttery fat, largely 
used in the manufacture of margarine, compound lard, 
vegetable butter, and cooking fats. Cotton stearin has a 
melting-point about 40° C. (104° F.). For baking and confectionery this 
cotton stearin forms an excellent butter substitute even when used alone, 
whilst the confectioner possessing a whisk or beating machine can com- 
pound his own substitutes, using cotton stearin as his base and blending 
in butter, lard, or other oil, according to the consistency he desires his 
fat to have. 

Cotton-seed oil may be detected by the following test. Dissolve 1 gm 
of silver nitrate in 100 c.c. of 95-per-cent alcohol; add 20 c.c. of ether 
and 1 drop of nitric acid. If 2 c.c. of this reagent is 
well shaken with 10 c.c. of the oil under examination 
and then placed in boiling water for ten minutes, a blackening due to 
reduced silver will prove the presence of cotton-seed oil (Becchi's test). 
This test cannot be relied upon as proof of the adulteration of butter 
or lard with cotton-seed oil, because it has been shown that, w^hen cows 



EDIBLE OILS 261 

or hogs are fed upon cotton-seed cake, the butter or lard obtained from 
such animals yields the cotton-aeed test. 

Maize or Corn Oil 

Maize oil has specific gravity at 15° C. (59° F.) of '852; solidifying- 
point, 16°-14° C. (61°-57° F.). The germs of maize contain some 20 per 
cent of oil. In the process of starch and glucose manufacture . 

these germs are separated ; they are then submitted to hydraulic 
pressure, a yield of 15 per cent of oil being obtained. Maize oil is golden 
yellow in colour, possessing a pleasant odour and flavour like fresh grain, 
by which it may be identified. Maize oil contains a large amount of 
unsaponifiable matter, chiefly consisting of lecithin, a phosphorized fatty 
substance. The fatty acids present are palmitic, stearic, and arachidic. 
The supply of this oil comes chiefly from the United States, where it is 
largely used in the manufacture of margarine and compound lard. It 
is also used as an adulterant of olive oil. 

Sesame Oil 

This oil is also called gingili oil and teel oil. Specific gravity at 15° C. 
(59° F.) -923; solidifying-point, -5° C. ( + 23° F.). It is obtained from 
the seeds of Sesamum orientate and S. indicum. The cold-pressure oil is 
pale jT^ellow and free from odour, with a pleasant taste. The fatty acids 
are chiefly oleic and linoleic. In edible value it is equal to olive oil, of 
which it is a probable adulterant. Sesame oil when present in even small 
quantity can be recognized by the following test. Dissolve Baudoui * 
•1 gm. of cane sugar in 10 c.c. of hydrochloric acid of 1'2 Test for 
specific gravity. To this add 20 c.c. of the oil to be tested; Sesame Oil. 
shake thoroughly and allow to stand. If sesame oil is present the watery 
layer will become crimson (Baudouin's test). The test is capable of in- 
dicating 2 per cent of sesame oil. 

Eape or Colza Oil 

Rape or colza oil has a specific gravity at 15° C. (59° F.) of •914-'9l7; 
solidifying-point, -4° to -6° C. (-^25 to 21° F.) It is obtained from the 
seeds of a variety of Brassica campestris, the wild form of the 
turnip plant. The seeds of several allied plants are also used, 
all these oils being known as rape oil in this country. The crude oil is 
purified by treatment with sulphuric acid, and afterwards with alkali. 
The refined oil is dark yellow in colour, with a harsh unpleasant taste. 
The cold-drawn oil is used as food in India, and it has been used for 
baking purposes in this country when lard and other fats reach a very 
high price. 

CocoANUT Oil 

The specific gravity of cocoanut oil at 15° C. (59° F.) is '925; solidifying- 
point, 205° C. (69° F.). It is obtained from the fruit of Cocos nucifera, 



262 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

there being three qualities. The best, or Cochin, is gi-own on the Malabar 
coast. Ceylon is also a good quality, and both these varieties 
are prepared where cultivated. Copra is the common grade 
prepared in Europe from dried imported kernels. The oil is extracted by 
pressure and refined by heating with water. It is a soft, white, butter- 
like solid at ordinary temperatures. The fresh oil has an agreeable odour 
and flavour, recalling its origin, but it speedily becomes rancid. The fatty 
acids present are palmitic, oleic, myristic, and lauric. For edible purposes 
only selected nuts are employed. The free acids and odour are removed 
by means of alcohol and charcoal or magnesia, the resulting fat being 
almost neutral, and possessing only the faintest odour. Most of the well- 
known brands of vegetable butter consist simply of this cocoa-nut oil, and 
under various names it is extensively used in confectionery and biscuit- 
Butter Pro- making. Recently it has acquired a new interest, as it is 
parties of being used in the adulteration of butter. The ordinary 

ocoanut i . Qj^gj^jg^l constants of this oil are closer to those of butter 
than those of any other fat, and consequently the detection of small 
quantities of it when used as an adulterant is only possible by careful 
comparison of all the constants of a suspected sample with those of a 
genuine butter. 

Palm-nut Oil 

The specific gravity of palm-nut oil at 99° C. (210° F.) is -873; melting- 
point, 23° to 28° C. (73° to 82° F.). This oil is obtained from the kernels 
of the fruit of Elwis guineensis and E. melanococca after the 
fleshy part has been removed. The method is similar to that 
used for obtaining cocoa-nut oil. Palm-nut oil is a white, neutral, pleasant- 
smelling solid having an agreeable nutty taste. Palm - nut oil usually 
contains much free fatty acid, usually 3 to 13 per cent, reckoned as 
oleic acid. The chief constituent of palm - nut oil is lauric acid. The 
chief use of palm -nut oil is as a constituent of vegetable butters. For 
this purpose its melting-point is too low, and therefore the more liquid 
oil is separated from the stearins by hydraulic pressure. The solid stearins 
resulting from this process are used in niaking vegetable butters, adulter- 
ating genuine butter, and also for making substitutes for cocoa butter for 
use in chocolates. 

Palm Oil 

Palm oil has a specific gravity at 15° C. (59° F.) of '92; solidifying- 
point, 38° C. (100* F.). This oil is obtained from the fleshy part of the 
palm-nut. It varies greatly in colour from orange yellow to 
dirty red, and possesses a pleasant violet-like odour. The oil is 
used as food by European and native alike in Africa, but owing chiefly 
to bad methods of extraction it is so rancid upon arrival in Europe that 
it is quite unfit for food. It is common for this oil to contain 20 to 50 
per cent free acids. Its chief use, therefore, is for soap-making. 



SUGARS AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS 



263 



CHAPTER XLV 

SUGARS AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS: CANE AND BEET SUGARS 

Nearly all the natural substances employed as sweetening agents belong 
to the group of chemical compounds called the carbohydrates, of which 
they constitute the largest division under the name of sugars. 

The sugars are found in almost every plant structure, fruits, stems, 
leaves, and trunks of trees, the most commonly occurring 
sugars being cane sugar and fruit sugar. The following 
table is an abstract of a large one given by Buignet showing the average 
quantities of sugar occurring in fruits: — 





Sucroses or 
Disaccharides. 


Reducing Sugar or 

Monosaccharides 

(Glucose type). 


Apricots 
Pineapples ... 

Figs 

English cherries 
Strawberries 
Raspberries ... 
Oranges 

Apples 

Pears 

Grapes (hot-house) . . . 


6 04 
11-33 
0-00 
0-00 
6-33 
2-01 
4-22 
5-28 
0-36 
0-00 


2-74 

1-98 

11-55 

10-00 

4-98 

5-22 

4-36 

8-72 

8-42 

17-26 



On account of their great solubility, and consequent ease of absorption 
into the system, the sugars form one of the most important groups of 
nutritive substances. The process of digesting starch involves its con- 
version into sugars, so that the transformation of starchy and other carbo- 
hydrates into sugars, which takes place in the plant tissues during the 
period of ripening, is a true predigestion of great utility to the animal 
economy. 

Of the large number of sugars entering into the various food-stufFs 
only a few are of practical and commercial importance, and Sucroses and 
they are conveniently classified by division into two groups: — Glucoses. 

1. The sucroses or disaccharides, the formula for which is generally 
written CigHgaOji. The principal members of this group are cane sugar, 
beet sugar, maple sugar, palm sugar, malt sugar, milk sugar. 

2. The glucoses or monosaccharides, having the formula CqH.^2^q, the 
chief members of which are dextrose or grape sugar, levulose or fruit 
sugar, and invert sugar, a mixture of the two former sugars found naturally 
in honey. Glucose or starch sugar is another name commonly applied to 
dextrose. 



2U 



CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 



The members of these two groups are intimately related, and invariably 

nu „^^ f, the addition of a molecule of water to the disaccharides 

Changes irom 

Cane Sugar brings about their dissociation into two molecules of a mono- 
to G ucose. saccharide in accordance with the following equation: — 



^12"-22^11 



+ 



H,0 = 



2C6Hi20g 



This reaction may be brought about either by prolonged boiling with water 
in presence of air, or more rapidly by means of very dilute acids. It is 
naturally induced by certain plant and animal ferments. 



Cane and Beet Sugar 

Cane sugar or sucrose originally obtained its name from the fact that it 
was exclusively prepared from the sugar cane (SaccharuTn offLcinarurti). 
It is the most commonly occurring of the natural sugars, and by reason of 
its powerful sweetening properties is technically of greatest importance. 
In these days, when it is computed that in this country the annual con- 
sumption of sugar reaches 80 lb. per head, it is difficult to realize that what 
is now regarded as so essential an article of diet was a few centuries ago 
a most expensive luxury, the use of which was practically confined to 
medicine. One of the earliest official records of the use of sugar in this 
country is to be found in the Scottish Chamberlain's Records for the year 
1319, when its price was Is. 9|c?. per lb. 

The sugar of commerce is chiefly obtained from two sources, about two- 
thirds of the world's supply being yielded by the sugar beet, and one-third 
Commercial by the sugar cane. In this connection it must be understood 
Sugars. that, when properly refined, the sucroses, from whatever source 

they are obtained, are identical in all chemical characteristics, and it is 
only possible to differentiate them when, owing to imperfect refining, some 
impurities are left in them. 

The composition of sugar cane and the juice yielded by 
it is given as follows in Thorpe's Dictionary of Ap2)lied 
Chemistry: — 



Cane Sugar. 





Canes. 


Juice. 


Water 


71-04 


79-4 


Sugar 


18-02 


/1 9-6 (crystallizable). 
\ -.3 (uncrystallizable). 


Cellulose 


9-56 


— 


Albuminous matters 


0-55 


0-37 


Fatty and colouring \ 
matters ... ... J 


0-35 








Soluble salts 


0-12 


] 


Insoluble salts 


0-16 


I 0-25 


Silica 


0-20 


J 



LEADERS IN THE EDUCATIONAL MOVEMENT 
OF THE ALLIED TRADES 

Alexander Grant Wylie, born at Crieff in 1845, served an 
apprenticeship to a baker in his native place. He soon migrated 
to London, and in 1870 started there on his own account. He is 
now a leading family baker, and has done much for trade organi- 
zation in the capital. In 1898 he was President of the London 
Master Bakers' Protection Society, and he is the prospective 
President for 1908 of the National Association of Master Bakers. 
In 1907 he was appointed a Governor of the Borough Polytechnic 
Institute, as representative of the National Association. He is a 
Councillor and Alderman of Islington. 

Adam Lawson Johnston, bom in Edinburgh in 185 1, the son 
of a baker, commenced business on his own account in Edinburgh 
in 1880. He afterwards went to South Shields, and ultimately to 
London in 1886, when he started his present successful business in 
Wimbledon. He is a Vice-President of the National Association, 
and has several times declined the Presidency for health reasons. 
He was for many years Chairman of the Association's Education 
Committee, and was the first practical baker to be appointed an 
examiner under the City and Guilds of London Institute. He is 
now Honorary Consulting Examiner. He was Chairman of the 
Exhibition Judges for several years, and was one of the chief 
founders of the National Bakery School. 

Charles H. Paul, born in London in 1853, started business 
in Finsbury after considerable experience as journeyman and as 
manager of Boland's at Chester. He has since been in business 
as a confectioner and caterer in several parts of Greater London, 
since 1902 at Ealing. He has been one of the Confectionery Judges 
at the Annual Exhibition from the first. He is a member of the 
National Association's Education Committee and an Examiner 
under the City and Guilds of London Institute. 

James D. Graham, born at Dunblane in 1854, served his 
apprenticeship as a baker in his native town, and afterwards went 
to London. He acquired an extensive experience there and started 
on his own account near Covent Garden, and afterwards at St. 
John's Wood. He is a Vice-President and a Trustee of the 
National Association, one of the Exhibition Judges, and an 
Examiner under the City and Guilds of London Institute. In 
1 900- 1 90 1 he was Chairman of the Master Bakers' Pension and 
Almshouse Society. 




ALEXANDER G. WYLIE 
(London) 



ADAM L. JOHNSTON 

(London) 




CHARLES H. PAUL 

(London) 



JAMES D. GRAHAM 

(London) 



LEADERS IN THE EDUCATIONAL MOVEMENT OF THE ALLIED TRADES 



SUGAES AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS 265 

The process of extracting sugar consists in crushing the canes, and the 
crude juice is collected and freed from organic acids and nitrogenous matter 
by heating and treatment with lime (defecation). The clarified juice is 
next concentrated by evaporation in vacuo, and the resulting syrups 
allowed to crystallize. About 87 to 91 per cent of raw, brown, or " mus- 
covado " sugar is thus obtained, which is separated from the mother syrups, 
consisting of uncrystallizable sugars, by drainage, or, in modern sugar 
works, by means of centrifugals. 

The crude syrup remaining is called molasses. It has a dark-brown or 
greenish-black colour. Formerly this residue found a market in London 
in lari^e quantity, and was known as black treacle. Its chief , , 

I»olclSS6S* 

applications were in cookery and distilling. Modern methods 
of extracting the sugar have greatly reduced the quantity of this residue, 
however, and comparatively little of it now reaches the market. The spirit 
rum was formerly exclusively obtained from molasses. 

Before the advent of beet sugar, the operations of sugar-winning from: 
the cane were very crudely performed on the plantations, being practically 
confined to crushing the stems to expel the juice, and then concentrating the 
liquor in open pans. The pasty crystalline mass, which was of a blackish 
hue, was then packed into bags and despatched to the various European 
refineries. 

Foot sugar was the name given to this dark -brown to black pasty 
mass, which was frequently very dirty. It was imported in enormous- 
quantities at the great refining centres of London, Liverpool, 
Greenock, and Glasgow. With the installation of modern 
extracting plants at the plantations this supply has now nearly ceased. 
The syrups are worked more completel}'' into crystalline sugars, so that 
only better-grade muscovado sugars now leave the plantations, the im- 
purities being retained and used for manuring the land. Foot sugar 
found some applications in confectionery, chiefly in the production of rich 
wedding and other cakes. Its dark colour and large content of non- 
crystalline sugars were the characters for which it was chiefly prized. 

The raw sugars, brown or grocery sugars, now chiefly coming to market 
are the impurest forms of sugar now met with in commerce. They are all 
muscovados, diflfering from one another according to the 
degree of " curing " they have undergone. " Curing " is the 
technical term for the whitening or bleaching which results from a more 
perfect separation of the uncrystallizable syrup from the crystals. The 
earlier methods of curing simply consisted in packing the moist sugars into 
barrels having perforated bottoms upon which rushes had been spread. 
The syrup thus drained away, and was collected in tanks. Modern 
methods consist in whirling the sugars in centrifugal machines, so that the 
syrup is thrown oflT. 

Of the moist sugars now entering the market, the following may be 

noted: Barbados, usually dark-brown to reddish in colour; Demerara, of 

a golden colour and rich flavoiir, generally highly prized for domestic- 
Vol. I. 34 



266 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

purposes; Brazilian, a white sugar possessing a fine characteristic flavour, 

, . „ and liardly any residue of syrups; Cuban, dark-coloured, and 

Moist Sugars. „ .1,1/, mi • , 

irequently harsh flavour. ihese sugars are moist to the 

touch, and adhere in lumps owing to the relatively large quantity of 

syrup present. These raw sugars usually possess characteristic flavours 

in addition to sweetness, which are due to the presence of small amounts 

of non -saccharine bodies and aromatic substances. 

Beet sugar, prepared from the sugar beet (Beta vulgaris), is produced 

chiefly in Germany, France, Belgium, and Holland. In Britain the attempt 

^ „ to introduce the industry has not yet been attended with 

Seet Sugar. " . 

success. The common forms of beetroot contain but little 

sugar (about 6 per cent), and the chief difficulties to be overcome in 

extracting from the roots consisted in the separation of much acrid matter 

from the product, and the very low percentage of recoverable sugar. 

Scientific culture, however, has succeeded in so improving certain strains of 

beetroot, that they now yield 12 to 18 per cent of recoverable sugar, whilst 

the acrid substances are present in greatly reduced amount. The method 

of extraction consists in slicing or rasping the roots, and treating with 

water. The liquors obtained are defecated and clarified, and then evaporated 

in vacuo by methods similar in principle to those used in the case of cane 

sugar, but adapted to the special requirements of the beet. 

The raw sugars, whether obtained from sugar cane or beetroot, are 

generally refined in special factories devoted entirely to that work. The 

^ . process of refining simply consists in dissolving the raw 
Sugar-refining. . o 1 •/ o ^ 

sugars in water, filtering and clarifying by means of special 

reagents, and decolorizing by means of animal charcoal. The use of 
blood albumin for this purpose is now almost entirely abandoned. The 
colourless liquids are then evaporated in vacuo until of sufficient density 
to crystallize. The operation of making the different sizes of crystals is 
performed in the vacuum pan, the large crystals being the result of 
large and heavy charges of syrup at long intervals, so that the crystals 
can grow during boiling. Fine crystals, on the other hand, result from 
frequent and light charges. The preparation of Demeraras involves the 
addition of small quantities of sulphuric acid to the charge in the pan 
just before the "massecuite" is grained and ready to run out. This re- 
sults in a small quantity of the sugar being converted into a slightly 
caramelized form, thus imparting the fine golden yellow tint so much 
sought after in sugars of this class. This blooming is also assisted very 
frequently by the addition of small amounts of chloride of tin, but usually 
this is only done in inferior sugars. The finest Demeraras owe their 
brilliancy to care in clarification and defecation. 

Very frequently in recent years it has been found that so-called 
Demeraras are ordinary colourless sugar stained with aniline dyes. They 
Rough Test for are really beet sugars which have been put forward as 
Yellow Crystals, substitutes for genuine Demeraras. They are usually sold 
now under the name of Yellow Crystals. Such sugars may be detected 



SUGARS AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS 267 

by examining with a pocket lens, when the crystals will be seen to be un- 
equally coloured. Dilute acid will often turn such sugars pink or red, whilst 
absolute alcohol will abstract the dye and leave the sugar colourless. 

Loaf and cube sugar, with their derivatives, castor, granulated, and 
icing sugars, are the purest food materials found in commerce, consisting 
as they do of 99-8 per cent pure sucrose. The refining of L^^f and 
these sugars is precisely similar to that mentioned already, Cube Sugars, 
but no acid is added on evaporation. Loaves are made by running the 
syrup in the condition of " niassecuite " into iron frames of conical shape, 
having a hole in the tip for syrup to drain away. When the first charge 
has cooled and drained, fresh quantities of syrup are poured on and 
allowed to percolate through the mass until a solid block is obtained, by 
which means the colour becomes whiter and the loaf more solid and 
dense. When sufiiciently solid the loaves are removed from the moulds 
and placed in hot rooms to dry. Sugar candy is made by slowly crys- 
tallizing purified sugar upon lengths of string suspended in the concen- 
trated syrup. By this means large bunches of crystals are obtained. It 
is made in both white and yellow form. Cube sugar was originally 
obtained from the sugar loaf by cutting it with a pair of scissors or 
nippers. It is now, however, made at the refineries by various ingenious 
machines which mould the cubes upon the surface of a cylinder. Other 
methods consist in crystallizing the sugar in flat slabs, and cutting with a 
series of saw blades, or sheets of cutters arranged to work in a machine. 

Granulated is fast becoming one of the most popular types of sugar in 
commerce. It is made by boiling the syrup to the " massecuite " stage, until 
it has a sharp grain. The syrup is run out; the sugar is 
then freed from syrup in the centrifugal, and afterwards 
washed to clean the crystals. The wet crystals are then fed into a granu- 
lator, w^hich generally consists of a long revolving cylinder. The crystals 
pass through this cylinder and are subjected to heat, so that they become 
dried. The dry crystals then pass into an elevator, and are conveyed into 
a dressing machine which sorts the crystals into the various grades accord- 
ing to size. The largest of these crystals are called coffee crystals, the 
medium-sized ones are the ordinary granulated, and the smallest are 
castor sugars. Icing sugar is prepared by grinding the cube, granulated, 
or waste pieces from the manufacture of these varieties in disintegrators, 
and passing the product through dressing reels. Several different grades 
are thus obtained, which are used chiefly in biscuit manufacture, confec- 
tionery, and pharmacy. 

Pieces is a soft sugar having little or no grain, usually obtained from 
beet -sugar refining. The syrups from which first and second crystals 
have been obtained are boiled to a jelly, and allowed to stand 
two or three days in order to crystallize. The mass is then 
centrifugalized to separate the remaining syrup, and the crude sugar ob- 
tained is known as First Pieces. The syrup residues are again treated in 
a similar manner, when they yield an inferior grade called Second Pieces. 



268 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

Pieces usually have an unpleasant odour, and a slightly acrid flavour due to 
the large amounts of saline impurity in them. Their chief use is in biscuit 
and confectionery manufacture. 

The best white sugars are usually dressed with a little ultramarine blue 
in order to destroy any faint trace of yellowness. In order to test a white 
Test for Ultra- sugar for ultramarine, dissolve several ounces of the sugar 
marine Colouring. [^ water, and allow to stand until the colouring matter 
has settled; decant off the liquid, and wash the residue with water. On 
treating the residue with hydrochloric acid the blue colour is destroyed if 
it is ultramarine. 

As in crude sugar-making, so also in refining, a residue of syrup is 

obtained which does not crystallize, owing partly to impurities and saline 

matters, and partly to the presence of non-crvstalline sup-ars 
Golden Syrup. . , ^i l ■ i. crT 

As, however, tliese syrups may contain as much as 50 per 

cent sucrose, they undoubtedly form valuable sweetening agents. By 
means of certain complex processes much of this sugar could be recovered, 
but in the case of cane-sugar syrups this practice is seldom resorted to, the 
syrup being sold under the name of golden syrup, for which there is a 
considerable demand. The syrups obtained from beet-sugar refining, how- 
ever, are unfit for human consumption by reason of their nauseous flavour, 
which is due to the large amount of saline impurities they contain. Such 
syrups are now largely utilized in preparing certain well-known cattle 
foods. Golden syrup contains much invert sugar as a result of the fre- 
quent boilings to which the sucrose has been subjected. In addition to 
this, however, some manufacturers have adopted the practice of adding a 
small proportion of glucose, with the object, it is said, of preventing grain- 
ing, i.e. crystallization of the syrup. Such syrups should be sold with a 
declaration of the addition upon them, for proceedings have several times 
been taken under the Food and Drugs Act for passing such mixtures as 
pure golden syrup. 

Good cane sugar should be perfectly soluble in half its weight of cold 
water, and the solution should be free from dirt and other impurities which 
would yield a deposit on standing. This forms a rough- 
and-ready test for buying sugars. On boiling a solution 
of sugar at atmospheric pressure water is given off"; but, unlike most 
liquids, the temperature does not remain constant until all the water is 
driven ofl! As boiling proceeds, the temperature slowly rises and the mass 
becomes faintly acid, and invert sugar is gradually formed, so that the 
power of crystallizing on cooling again is lost entirely. 

When heated to 160° C. (320° F.) crystallized sugar melts, and, on 
cooling again, yields a golden-yellow solid of a glassy nature called barley 
sugar. If the heating is carried above 160° C, the sugar 
undergoes considerable chemical modification and parts with 
some of its water of constitution, being converted into non-saccharine 
bodies at 190° C. (374° F.). It gradually darkens, and forms the body 
known as caramel. This caramel is marketed in the form of a dark-brown 



SUGARS AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS 269 

viscous liquid, or as a vitreous solid. Its solution in water is used for 
colouring rum, brandy, whisky, vinegar, fruit essences, and many articles 
of confectionery and cookery. During the boiling of a watery solution of 
sugar, products having different physical properties are obtained according 
to the degree of temperature to which the boiling is allowed to proceed. 
The sugar-boiler recognizes some nine or ten of these stages between the 
temperatures of 220° F. and 350° F. These stages he usually recognizes 
by certain practical tests, and but seldom boils by the thermometer. The 
various products are utilized in the making of soft and hard fondants and 
ball or stick toffees.^ 

Cane sugar has no reducing action upon Fehling's solution or am- 
moniacal silver nitrate solution. Dilute acids convert cane sugar into 
invert sugar, a mixture of dextrose and levulose, and then the solution 
reduces Fehling's solution and ammoniacal silver nitrate. Cane sugar 
possesses the power of rotating the plane of polarized light, and this is 
made use of in the testing of sugar for purity. Its specific optical rotation 
is [a]d + 66*5° for 10-per-cent solutions. This specific rotatory power is 
defined as the angle through which a ray of polarized light is rotated when 
it traverses a column 1000 mm. in length of a solution containing 10 gm. 
of the substance in 100 c.c. Since the rotation varies directly with the 
concentration of the solution it is possible, when the substance and its 
specific rotation are known, to ascertain the percentage in any solution by 
means of the polarimeter. When treated with alkalies, sugar becomes of a 
dark-brown colour on heating, and is gradually decomposed. This brown- 
ing can be seen in scones and other goods made with excess of soda. 

The strength of cane sugar solutions or syrups may be determined with 
fair accuracy by means of the specific gravity of the solution. Hydro- 
meters are made expressly for gauging sugar solutions, and Test for Sugar 
in those of Balling and Brix the percentage of sugar is Strength, 
marked in degrees upon the stem for every increase in specific gravity. 
In the absence of these specially marked instruments an ordinary hydro- 
meter giving specific gravities may be used, or the specific gravity may 
be determined by means of the bottle or picnometer. It has been care- 
fully determined that the addition of 1 gm. of cane sugar to a solution of 
100 c.c. raises its specific gravity by 386, and this is approximately true 
throughout a long range. It follows, therefore, that by a reversal of 
reasoning we can find the weight of sugar in solution if its specific gravity 
is known. This is done by subtracting 1000 from the observed specific 
gravity x 1000, and dividing the remainder by 3-86. This gives the 
weight of sugar present in a given volume of the solution. For example, 
suppose the observed gravity is 1050, then 

w-w f VA 1050-1000 .,-„^ . ,^^ 

Weight of solids = ^^ = 12-95 gm. in 100 c.c. 

This method may also be applied to all the other sugars in solution. 

^ See Chapters on Sugar Boilmg m a later volume. 



270 



CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 



^. 



Proximate Com- The following table of analyses by many authorities 

position of Sugars, shows the average composition of the various types of 
sugar: — 





Sucrose 


Glucose 










orDi- 


or Mono- 


Ash. 


Non- sugars. 


Water. 




saccharides. 


saccharides. 








Raw Cane Sugars — 












West India 




94-4 


2-2 


0-2 


0-3 


2-8 


Dominica ... 




88-3 


3-36 


1-22 


2-17 


4-9 


Jamaica ... 




90-4 


3-47 


0-36 


1-55 


4-2 


Porto Rico 




87-5 


4-84 


0-81 


2-60 


4-2 


Trinidad ... 




88-0 


5-14 


0-96 


1-67 


4-2 


Surinam ... 




86-8 


4-31 


2-28 


5-34 


5-27 


China 




72-5 


9-19 


1-80 


9-75 


6-76 


Benares ... 




94-5 


2-63 


1-50 


0-39 


0-98 


Jaggery ... 




75-0 


11-00 


2-0 


4-00 


8-00 


Manilla ... 




87-0 


5-50 


1-25 


2-50 


400 


Eaw Beet Sugars — 












Average ... 


93-64 


trace 


1-67 


2-07 


2-62 


Beet, firsts 


95-0 


0-00 


1-25 


1-75 


2-00 


Beet, seconds 


91-0 


0-25 


2-50 


3-25 


3-00 


Refined Sugars — 












Tate's crystals 


99-20 


0-00 


trace 


trace 


trace 


French pulverized 


99-70 


trace 


0-10 


0-00 


0-20 


Duncan's granulated 


99-80 


trace 


0-10 


none 


0-10 


Martineau's tablets 


99-80 


none 


0-10 


none 


0-10 


Friezel's crystals ... 


99-86 


none 


0-01 


none 


0-13 


White coffee crystals 


91-00 


2-40 


0-30 


0-80 


5-50 


Beet loaf-sugar ... 


99-10 


trace 


0-15 


none 


0-25 


Yellow sugar, XC 


87-0 


4-50 


1-00 


1-50 


6-00 


Yellow sugar 


82-0 


7-50 


2-00 


2-50 


6-00 



CHAPTER XLVI 

SUGAES AND SACCHAEINE MATEEIALS: OTHER SUGARS AND 
SUGAR SUBSTITUTES 



Other Disaccharide Sugars 

Sorghum (Andropogon Sorghum, var. saccharatus) is a grass which 
grows largely in America, some varieties containing as much as 8 per cent 
of sugar. Though at present it is not of much account in the 
production of sugar, yet during recent years its cultivation has 
greatly extended under the assistance of the U.S. Board of Agriculture. 



Sorghum. 



SUGARS AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS 271 

The chief difficulty in the manufacture of sugar from it arises from the 
presence of starch in the grass. 

Maple Sugar, prepared from the sugar maple {Acer saccharinum), a 
tree of eastern North America, is a special variety of sucrose very highly 
prized on account of its peculiar flavour. Its production is 
almost exclusively confined to Canada and one or two states 
in U.S.A. The maples are tapped, and the juice which is collected is boiled 
down in open pans to a proper consistency. The scum is removed very 
carefully, since its retention would be likely to give rise to fermentation 
in the finished sugar. It is estimated that each tree yields an average of 
4 lb. of sugar per annum. Maple sugai- is never refined, since its chief 
value depends upon the impurities, its flavour being due to small quantities 
of ethereal substances. Maple sugar is slightly laxative in its eflfects. The 
following analyses are given by Leach: — 

Sucrose ... 71-80 to 86-89 

Glucose ... ... ... ... ... ... traces „ 12*19 

Water 6-77 „ 11-57 

Ash 0-31 „ 1-50 . 

Maple sugar is frequently adulterated with molasses or brown cane sugars, 
and inferior maple sugars are fortified with syrup or commercial glucose. 
These adulterants are usually capable of detection by the flavour they 
impart. 

Maltose or Malt Sugar (C12H2.2O11) seldom comes into market in the 
pure state. It is, however, the principal sugar occurring in malt extracts, 
and is produced in all eases where diastase acts upon starch. 
It also occurs in glucose syrup, since the action of dilute acids 
on starch results in its formation, together with other bodies. The formula 
representing its production by the action of malt diastase upon starch is 
given in the following equation: — 

SCi^H^oO.o + 4H2O = 4C,2H2Ai + 2C,H,A 

starch. Water. Maltose. Dextrin. 

This change takes place under the best conditions at 60°-65° C. (140°-149° F.). 
The sugar may be separated from the other products of the reaction by 
treatment of the solution with strong alcohol, which precipitates the 
dextrin, and the sugar can be crystallized by evaporation of the solvent. 
Maltose is less sweet than cane sugar. It is also less soluble both in water 
and alcohol. It rotates the plane of polarized light to the right, its specific 
rotatory activity being [a] d = +139°. Maltose crystallizes in tiny needles 
or warty masses with one molecule of water, which is expelled at 100° C. 
(212° F.), the resulting sugar being then extremely hygroscopic. Dilute 
acids and certain ferments convert maltose into dextrose. Yeast does not 
directly ferment maltose, but it secretes a ferment which quickly converts 
it into glucose, and it then becomes fermentable. Maltose reduces Fehling's 
solution. 



272 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

Lactose, Milk Sugar (C^2^22^n)> ^^ ^he sugar present in milk. Prac- 
tically the whole available supply is prepared from cows' milk by sepa- 
rating; the cream and precipitatingr the casein with rennet. 
Milk Sugar. . r x- » 

The whey is then evaporated and the lactose crystallizes in 
hard, semi-transparent prisms containing one molecule of water. By treat- 
ment with animal charcoal and recrystallization the sugar is finally obtained 
perfectly pure. The polarizing power of lactose is [a]a = 4-52"5''. On 
heating lactose to 130° C. (266° F.) it gives up its water of crystallization, 
and at 180° C. (356° F.) it becomes converted into lactose caramel. As 
previously mentioned, lactose is not fermentable by yeast under ordinary 
circumstances, but in contact with decomposing proteins it undergoes 
splitting, and then fermentation results, with production of alcohol and 
lactic acid.^ Certain yeasts appear to be capable of carrying out this trans- 
formation of lactose, and these occur in the fermented beverages made from 
milk in Russia, &c., e.g. koumiss and kephir. When boiled with dilute acid 
lactose is converted into a monosaccharide and a disaccharide, viz. dextrose 
and galactose. Lactose reduces Fehling's solution and ammoniacal silver 
nitrate without previous inversion. Lactose is not quite so sweet as maltose, 
producing a somewhat gritty sensation in the mouth. 



Glucose and Levulose 

Glucose, Dextrose, or Starch Sugar (CgHjgOe), is the chief member of 
the monosaccharides occurring in commerce. It never comes into the 
market in a pure state, being always associated with dextrin, 
which is produced at the same time. Starch is converted by 
the action of dilute acids into dextrose, maltose, and dextrin; the resulting 
liquors are treated with chalk to neutralize the acid, filtered and evaporated 
to a thick syrup, or concentrated so that on cooling the mass solidifies. 
Dextrose is the chief sugar present in ripe grapes. It crystallizes in warty 
masses, containing one molecule of water. Dextrose melts at 146° C. 
(295° F.), and at 170° C. (338° F.) loses water, and is converted into 
glucosan, CgHioOr,, and at higher temperatures into caramel. The specific 
rotation of dextrose is [a]d = -|-52"7°. Alkalies turn dextrose dark 
brown in colour, and prolonged treatment with acids converts it into non- 
saccharine substances. Dextrose is not very sweet to the taste. It enters 
readily into fermentation with yeast, and reduces Fehling's solution and 
ammoniacal silver nitrate solutions. 

Glucose is principally made from cheap starchy materials, e.g. maize in 
America, and potatoes in France and Germany. It occurs in two forms, 
liquid and solid. Liquid glucose is a colourless syrup, containing from 12 
to 14 per cent of moisture. Solid glucose generally occurs in large cheesy 
lumps or chips having a pearly lustre. The principal impurity which 
glucose is liable to contain is arsenic, which may be derived from the acid 

' This condition never arises practically in bread fermentation. 



SUGARS AND SACCHARINE MATERIALS 



273 



used for converting the starch, 
composition of these products: 



The following analyses show the variable 





Liquid Glucose. 


Solid Glucose. 


Dextrin 


29-8 to 45-3 ... 


00 to 9-1 


Maltose 


4-6 „ 19-3 ... 


... 0-0 „ 1-8 


Dextrose . . . 


34-3 „ 36-5 ... 


... 720 „ 99-4 


Ash 


0-3 „ 0-5 ... 


... 0-3 „ 0-75 


Water 


14-2 „ 17-2 ... 


... 0-6 „ 17-5 



Levulose. 



Glucose, when care is taken in manufacture to ensure the absence of 
arsenic, is a perfectly healthful and pleasant product, enabling the con- 
fectioner to obtain results which cannot readily be otherwise produced. 
Its much lower sweetening properties than cane sugar also enable it to 
be used in relatively large amount without producing sickliness. Glucose 
is the principal material used in the production of caramel. 

Levulose is the sugar occurring in flowers and in some fruits. It is 
also produced in equal quantity with dextrose upon inverting cane sugar 
by acids or ferments. It is difficultly crystallizable, and usually 
occurs in commerce in the form of a brown syrup. It is probably 
quite as sweet as cane sugar. It is chiefly remarkable in polarizing in the 
opposite direction to all the other sugars, and hence its name of left-handed 
sugar. Its rotatory power is [a]d = — 98'8°. Levulose reduces Fehling's 
solution and also ammoniacal silver nitrate. 

Honey consists of about equal parts of dextrose and levulose. It is 
obtained chiefly by bees from the nectaries of various flowers. During 
its stay in the body of the bee the sucrose, which is the Composition 
chief sugar abstracted, becomes inverted into dextrose and of Honey, 
levulose. The flavour of honey varies greatly, according to its source. 
In addition to sugars, honey contains small amounts of mineral matter, 
pollen, wax, and certain acids, chiefly formic acid. The following analyses 
of pure and adulterated honeys show the general composition of these 
products: — 





Pure Honey. 


Honey adulterated 
with Cane Sugar. 


Honey adulterated 
with Glucose. 


Sucrose 

Invert sugar (e.g. dextrose) 
and levulose) ... . . . ) 

Ash 

Water 


0-5 to 7-6 

60-3 „ 78-8 

03 „ 0-5 
120 „ 330 


431 to 170 

42-4 „ 67-2 

- „ 0-06 
42-4 „ 15-5 


8-8 to 0-0 

461 „ 49-8 

003 „ — 
151 „ 23-7 



Honey is often grossly adulterated with glucose or cane-sugar syrups, and 
though such mixtures are quite harmless, and probably quite as nutritive as 
pure honey, they should not be sold at the price of genuine honey, because 
they are so much more cheaply produced. 



Voul. 



35 



274 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

Other Sweetening Substances 

Glycerin, 03115(011)3, is perhaps the only natural sweetening agent 
which is not a sugar or even a carbohydrate. It is in reality an alcohol 
belonging to the fatty hydrocarbons. It exists naturally in large 
quantity in all fats, where it is combined with various acids, 
forming ethereal salts (see Ohap. XLII, p. 247). Pure glycerin is obtained 
from fats by hydrolysing them with steam under pressure. As ordinarily 
obtained it is a colourless thick syrup, of specific gravity 126, and looking 
very like glucose syrup. It boils at 290° 0. (554° F.), but usually de- 
composes owing to the presence of impurities. Glycerin has great affinity 
for water, which it rapidly absorbs from the air. It has a distinctly 
sweet taste, but produces a slightly rough, drying feeling in the mouth. 
On account of its hygroscopic properties glycerin is frequently used in 
bread and cake making in order to assist the moist-keeping qualities of 
the products. It is also much used in diabetic cookery as a sweetening 
agent, where it can be safely used instead of sugar. Glycerin is some- 
what liable to be contaminated with lead and arsenic, impurities which 
are derived from the reagents and vessels employed in its manufacture. 
The most highly refined glycerins, as prepared for medicinal purposes, 
are usually perfectly free from these poisons, and may be safely employed 
in the preparation of foods. 

During recent years certain purely artificial products have been dis- 
covered which possess sweetening properties far in excess of any sugar 
Artificial Sweetening hitherto known. These bodies, which are obtained 
Substances. from coal-tar products, find an application in the pre- 

paration of foods for diabetic and gouty patients, and are also used to 
a large extent in the manufacture of mineral waters and some preserves. 
These substances have no food value whatever, but from their powerful 
nature they can be used in very minute quantity and still impart a 
considerable sensation of sweetness to the articles they are blended into. 
Their use is likely to be strongly objected to by health authorities, except 
in certain well-defined cases. 

Saccharin or Benzoyl Sulphimide (CgH^CO . SOgNH) is the best known 
of these sweeteners. It is a white powder having a melting point of 
224° 0. (435° F.). It is soluble in about 230 parts of cold water. 
In sweetening power it is 300 to 500 times as strong as cane 
sugar, and the addition of 1 part saccharin per 1000 parts of commercial 
glucose renders this syrup as sweet as cane sugar. Saccharin is pre- 
pared from the hydrocarbon toluene by treatment with concentrated 
sulphuric acid. The sulphonic acids thus formed are next converted into 
chlorides, one of which, the ortho salt, upon interaction with ammonia, 
yields the imide. A sodium salt of saccharin has been put upon the 
market. It is more soluble in water than the pure saccharin, and at 
the same time possesses about equal sweetening properties. Saccharin is 
largely administered in the form of tablets. 



EGGS 275 

In addition to its sweet taste saccharin possesses positive antiseptic pro- 
perties, and consequently may be considered as a preservative. It certainly 
has a retarding action upon the digestion by virtue of these properties. 

Accordine: to Squibb, saccharin has anti-ferment action equal . . 

1 • • 1 T 1 1 1 1 .• 11 Action of 

in intensity to boric acid. It should therefore never be used Saccharin on 

in infant or invalid preparations without disclosure of the Enzymes 

fact. When saccharin is fused with an alkali and potassium 

nitrate, the sulphur in it is oxidized to sulphuric acid. Upon dissolving 

the mass in water and adding barium chloride, the presence of the sulphuric 

acid becomes apparent. In this way saccharin may be detected, and, if 

necessary, quantitatively determined. 

Diilcin, Siicrol, or Paraphenetol Carbamide (C2H5O.C6H4.NH.CO.NH2), 
is a white powder sparingly soluble in cold water. It is soluble in 800 parts 
cold and 50 parts boiling water, whilst 25 parts of 95-per-cent 
alcohol also dissolve it. It is about 400 times sweeter than cane 
sugar. It melts at 173° C. (343° F.), and decomposes when strongly heated. 

Glucin is a light-brown powder readily soluble in water. It decom- 
poses without melting at 250° C. (482° F.). It has 300 times the sweeten- 
ing power of cane sugar. If glucin is dissolved in dilute hydro- . 
chloric acid, and the cooled solution is treated with sodium nitrite 
solution, a few drops of alkaline 8 naphthol produces a red coloration 
which may be considered characteristic of glucin. These bodies, however, 
are used to a much smaller extent than saccharin. 



CHAPTER XLVII 

EGrGrS 

Eggs constitute one of the most important of the raw materials used 
in confectionery, entering as they do more or less largely into the great 
majority of the articles made, and in many cases being the indis- Eees as 
pensable ingredient without which certain goods cannot be made. Aerating 
The confectioner relies upon his eggs to perform two important &^"^s. 
functions. By reason of the property they possess of film formation, there- 
by occluding large amounts of air, they act as an excellent aerating agent 
which can be used in rich mixings where both yeast and chemicals are 
inadmissible. Their chemical composition is such that they greatly enrich 
all other materials witli which they are blended, the improvement effected 
not being limited merely to an increased food value, but extending to better 
appearance, colour, and flavour, qualities which the confectioner is com- 
pelled to regard as of paramount importance in the productions of his 
handicraft. 

The eggs of many kinds of birds are used as food in different parts of 
the world, but by far the most widely employed in cookery are the common 



276 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

hen's egg, and to a much smaller extent the duck's egg, whilst goose and 
turkey eggs are rarely used except in domestic cookery. Generally speak- 
ing, it may be stated that the eggs of all birds are closely similar in 
chemical composition, though they differ markedly in weight and also in 
flavour. The hen's egg has been the most completely investigated at 
present, and will here be taken as typical of eggs in general. An egg 
Chemical Com- contains in primitive form all the necessary materials 
position of Eggs, requisite to form blood, bone, muscle, and indeed all the 
tissues of the young chick. It follows, therefore, that the chemical nature 
of the chief constituents must be nitrogenous in character, consisting of 
bodies called proteins by the chemist. In addition there must be a large 
supply of mineral matter for bone formation, and fats to supply heat. On 
the other hand, the carbohydrates, e.g. starch, sugars, &c., are not required, 
since such bodies act mainly as heat producers and require oxidation. As 
no active life is possible within the shell, this group of substances is hardly 
Proportions of represented at all. For the purpose of considering its prac- 
Parts of Eggs. t,ical value, an egg may be conveniently divided into three 
parts: (1) the envelope or shell; (2) the almost colourless slightly jelly-like 
albumin layer or white; (3) the globular deep-yellow coloured yolk. In 
hens' eggs these parts bear about the following proportions to each other: — 

Parts per 100. In One. 

Shell 10 5 gram. 

White 59 33 „ 

Yolk 31 18 „ 

Average hen eggs weigh 2 oz. (56 gm.), duck eggs 2| oz. (70 gm.), goose 
eggs 5 to 6 oz. (160 gm.), and turkey eggs 4 oz. (110 gm.) each. The best 
hen eggs are those which weigh about 8 to 10 to the pound. When smaller 
the whites are usually weak, and the loss due to excessive proportion of 
shell makes such eggs more expensive than the larger and higher-priced 
ones. 

The shell of an egg consists chiefly of carbonates and phosphates of 
calcium and magnesium deposited upon a thin tough membrane which 
encloses the liquid portion. It is very porous, and consequently permits 
free passage of air and the various impurities suspended in it. In course 
of time this brings about evaporation of moisture and gradual shrinkage 
of the egg mass, and eventually results in setting up decomposition of 
the chemical compounds present. The various methods of preserving 
eggs, therefore, have for their object the closing of these pores in the 
shell, thus effectually preventing decomposition. 

The classical method for detecting stale eggs consists in holding the 
egg between the eye and a bright light. The egg is fresh if it appears 
To Detect perfectly clear and transparent, with only a faint indication 
Age of Eggs, of the air chamber at one end. If it is not fresh, a more or 
less cloudy appearance will be observed, and in extremely old eggs the 
whole mass is opaque. Another method by which it is stated the age of 



EGGS 



277 



an egg can be approximately determined consists in placing the egg in 
a 10-per-cent solution of common salt. Should it sink and rest upon the 
bottom it may be regarded as perfectly fresh; if it is about three days 
old it will remain suspended in the liquid; but if it floats upon the surface 
it is at least five days old. This method is not applicable to eggs which 
have been preserved by methods which will be referred to shortly. The 
following mean composition of hens' eggs is given by Konig: — 





Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Non-nitrogenous 
Substances. 


Salts. 


In the Dry Substance. 


Nitrogen. 
Per Cent. 


Fat. 
Per Cent. 


Whole egg ... 

White 

Yolk 


73-67 

85-75 
50-79 


12-55 
12-67 
16-24 


12-11 

0-25 

31-75 


0-55 
0-13 


1-12 
0-59 
1-09 


7-66 

14-25 

5-30 


45-99 

1-78 

64-43 



White of Egg. 



Although composed almost entirely of fats and proteins, it must not be 
concluded that the constitution of eggs is therefore simple. On the con- 
trary, it is of the highest complexity, the white being made up of many 
different proteins, and the yolk containing many complex combinations 
of fat with proteins, forming highly elaborated structures, many of which 
are as yet only partially understood. An egg must be regarded as a 
congeries of individual cells. 

Egg white, or the albuminous part of an egg, is the portion out of 
which the several tissues of the chick are formed. It is a transparent 
faintly yellow-coloured ropy fluid, having a weak alkaline 
reaction. The more jelly-like the white the better it is for 
confectioners' purposes. It consists physically of two parts, being essen- 
tially a thin fluid enclosed in a framework of firm fibrous material, which 
forms a cellular membrane throughout the mass. The fluid portion is 
really very liquid, but the presence of the membranous envelopes gives 
it a high viscosity. The membrane is insoluble in water and in dilute 
salt and acetic acid solutions. If whites of egg are thoroughly beaten 
up in water the albumin passes into solution, and the insoluble membrane 
can then be filtered off". The presence of this membrane in white of egg 
is of the greatest importance to the confectioner, since it provides the 
fibrous structure around which the viscous protein solution can form 
thin walls, thus converting the mass into millions of air-cells when the 
whites are beaten or whisked. Good whites can be readily beaten into 
a perfectly stiff" froth, but this cannot be accomplished if even small 
traces of yolk are included or if grease of any kind is present. Anything 
which tends to reduce or destroy the viscosity of the fluid, such as dilution 
or addition of oily substances, renders the production of Action of Fat 
this froth an impossibility, because under these conditions and Sugar 
the films stretching between the fibrous structure become °" ^^ whites, 
broken as fast as they are formed. Sugar has the opposite effect, aiding 



278 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

the formation to some extent, because, by forming a syrup with some of 
the water present, it increases the viscosity slightly, and thus contributes 
to the stability and permanency of the film when it has formed. 

Eggs which are technically known as " weak " owe their inferiority 
to a deficiency in the amount of the membranous portion of the whites. 
It may be overcome to a considerable extent by exposing the 
broken eggs in a dry airy place for a few hours before whisk- 
ing. By this means some of the water is evaporated from the fluid portion 
and its viscosity is increased, and, at the same time, the relative proportion 
of membrane to fluid is also slightly raised, so that the frothing can be 
better accomplished. The custom of adding small traces of acetic acid and 
cream of tartar also possibly slightly increases the power of frothing by 
converting some of the albumen into acid albumen. 

White of egg has a specific gravity of 1'045, and by evaporation at 
temperatures not exceeding 60° C. (140° F.) it yields from 12 to 13 per 
cent by weight of solid substance of a yellowish horny character. 
The salts present in white of egg are mainly sodium chloride and 
sodium carbonate, and it is this latter salt which imparts the alkaline 
reaction to whites. When heated with water to a little above 60° C. 
(140° F.) egg albumin gradually becomes cloudy, forming small flocks; 
if the temperature is increased to 72° C. (161° F.) it becomes quite in- 
soluble, forming a dense white, opaque, jelly-like solid, which cannot be 
dissolved again in water. It is soluble in dilute acetic acid or in solutions 
containing pepsin, but with alteration of its properties. Very dilute acids 
do not cause precipitation of egg albumin, but strong acids cause it to 
coagulate. 

Yolk of egg is the stored nutriment designed to serve for the support of 
the young chick during the period of development within the shell; con- 
sequently it has a composition wholly diflerent from that 
of whites. It may be looked upon as the part corresponding 
to the endosperm in the cereals. Yolk contains a larger proportion of 
solids than whites, but the predominating constituent is fat. Egg yolk 
is a thick, yellow, opaque fluid of an oily nature. It is composed of a 
larger number of substances than whites, the chief constituents being the 
fats, olein, palmitin, and stearin, which are identical with the principal 
fats occurring in the animal body, and the proteins, nuclein and vitellin, 
with certain highly complex phosphorized fatty proteins, among which 
lecithin may be noted. The colouring matter is called lutein, and contains 
iron in an organic form. To this body the fine tinctorial property of eggs 
is due. 

The principal protein in yolk is vitellin, which is insoluble in water 
but soluble in saline solutions. It differs considerably from the proteins 
of whites. The coagulation of yolk by heat takes place at a higher 
temperature than that of whites. Yolks cannot be beaten into a stiff* 
froth like whites, though by whisking a certain amount of air can be 
incorporated. This is the result of the operation of several causes, among 



EGGS 279 

which may be noted the different character of the proteins, albumin being 
present in very small quantity, the absence of a fibrous structure around 
which cells can be formed, and the presence of relatively large quantities 
of fatty matter. 

The yolk, however, yields by far the most valued of the food con- 
stituents in eggs, namely, the fats and phosphorized compounds, whilst 
the rich colouring and flavouring properties render it indispensable to 
the confectioner. 

It has already been noted that the porous character of the shells is 
the cause of the speedy deterioration of eggs which are kept for any 
time after laying. When first laid an egg is coated with a natural pre- 
servative in the shape of a thin layer of mucilage, but this is speedily 
removed by handling or washing. The preservation of Methods of 
eggs has been a problem of great practical importance Preserving Eggs, 
for many years, and a large number of methods have been proposed to 
attain this end. The earlier processes simply consisted in packing the 
eggs in some loose absorbent material, such as bran, salt, charcoal powder, 
so as to fill up all spaces between the eggs and exclude air as far as 
possible. Thus treated, eggs keep much longer than would be the case 
if air had free access, but the method is not satisfactory for any long 
period. Other methods, employed with more or less success, involved 
the coating of the shell with some impervious material, such as butter, 
vaseline, gelatine, or varnish. Solutions of common salt and lime water 
yield very good results, the eggs being packed into jars or tubs and 
covered with the solution. In a series of tests made in France with a 
large variety of methods, it was found that the use of lime water was 
among the three best processes, there being no failures with it during the 
period of the test. 

Undoubtedly the best practical solution for egg preservation is sodium 
silicate or water glass. In 1893 Bourne took out a patent in France for 
the use of silicate of soda, the egg being dipped into the 
solution and then removed and allowed to dry. This is not 
a perfectly satisfactory method of applying the preservative, and although 
somewhat more cumbrous, and necessitating the use of large receptacles 
where any number of eggs are to be laid by, there can be no doubt 
that the permanent immersion of the eggs in a dilute solution of the 
reagent is by far the safest process. The eggs should be packed into 
stoneware jars in the unwashed condition; a solution of water glass of 
10 per cent strength (obtainable at any chemical dealer's or drysalter's) 
is then poured upon them, so as completely to cover them over. Thus 
treated, eggs may be preserved for six to eight months easily. The chief 
drawback of the process is that the shells become very brittle, but this is 
not of great importance to the confectioner. The danger of weakening the 
whites by transfusion of water through the shell is not nearly so great 
with water glass as with other liquid solutions. Cadet de Vaux pro- 
posed to plunge the eggs into boiling water momentarily, and thus form 



280 



CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 



Dried Eggs. 



a thin skin of coagulated albumin on the interior wall of the shell. This 
would form an impervious coat and protect the rest of the egg. Various 
forms of preserved eggs are now placed upon the market, and there is 
really little difficulty attending their production. 

Desiccated eggs, both mixed or whites and yolks separated, are readily 
obtained by evaporation in the open air at low temperatures, 
if the material is first thoroughly broken up by beating. The 
temperature of evaporation should not exceed 45" C. (113° F.). Whites 
so dried yield a horny solid easily poM^dered. The powder, which is of a 
greyish tinge, keeps well for unlimited periods. It dissolves rather slowly 
in cold water when required for use. Yolks dry quite as easily, but owing 
to their fatty nature they cannot readily be reduced to fine powder. Dried 
yolk forms large yellow granules of a soft cheesy nature. Kept in a closed 
receptacle they acquire a faint odour, but do not go bad if properly dried. 
They may be kept two or three years. Recent improvements in drying 
eggs consist in Emulsifying the egg with water to break it up into a fine 
homogeneous state, the mass being treated usually with a small amount 
of sodium bicarbonate to facilitate resolution of the dried powder. The 
emulsion is then sprayed upon heated revolving cylinders, which cause 
the water to be quickly evaporated, and the dried egg forms a thin skin 
upon the surface of the drum, from which it is removed by means of a 
knife held with its edge against the face of the cylinder. This method 
is similar to that employed in drying milk. 

The following analyses of two samples of dried eggs obtained in 
America are given by Leach: — 



Composition of 
Dried Eggs. 



Water 

Proteins (N x 6-25) 
Protein by difference 

Fats 

Ash 



Sample A. Sample B. 

6-80 5-95 

45-20 48-15 

51-20 — 

38-50 40-56 

3-50 5-34 



These were undoubtedly genuine dried egg powders. An attempt was 
made a few years ago to put upon the market eggs preserved in syrup. 
Eggs preserved The eggs were homogenized so as to form a liquid, and 
in Syrup. glucose syrup added to form a preservative. The fluid 

was then packed in hermetically sealed tins, similar to those used for 
condensed milk. A sample of this product which came into the author's 
hands yielded the following analysis: — 

Per Cent. 
Water 35-29 



Fats 

Proteids (N x 6-33) 
Glucose 

Ash 

Unestimated 



11-89 

14-03 

32-52 

0-94 

5-33 

100-00 



EGG SUBSTITUTES 281 

The mixture kept good for about two months when exposed to air, after 
which it slowly became mouldy. The large quantity of To Keep Eggs 
glucose is the chief objection to its use as a substitute for Left Over, 
fresh eggs in confectionery manufacture. The use of a definite quantity 
of sugar to mix with eggs left over on any day will keep them sound for 
use for several days, the sugar thus added to them being allowed for in the 
mixing in which they are ultimately used 



CHAPTER XLVIII 

EGG SUBSTITUTES 

Many powders have been put forward from time to time for the pur- 
pose of substituting eggs. Some of these substances contain considerable 

amounts of nitrogenous matter, being prepared from gelatin, ^ ^ 

. Egc Powders, 
gum, blood albumin, or casein. They are generally sold in 

the trade under fancy names, and occur in the form of white or greyish 
powders. The so-called egg powders sold to the public usually bear no 
resemblance to eggs except in colour. They are mainly starch, with the 
addition of a chemical aerating agent, such as cream of tartar and sodium 
bicarbonate, coloured brilliantly with turmeric or some coal-tar dye. All 
the principal proprietary egg powders are of such composition, and it 
is needless to remark that they cannot properly fulfil the functions per- 
formed by eggs. Of the albuminous powders already referred to, it may 
be said that such substances will yield a very good froth when whipped 
up with small amounts of water. They cannot, however, be brought to the 
same degree of stiffness as white of eggs, and when articles made with them 
are brought into the oven they fail to expand, the air-cells tending to burst, 
or the whole mass may sink down again after having risen. The reasons 
for the failure of these substances must be sought partly in their chemical 
and partly in their physical nature, for whilst they all possess considerable 
viscosity^ none has the elasticity which egg albumin is found to have. 

Blood alhwmin is the substitute bearing the closest chemical resemblance 
to egg albumin. It is obtained from the watery serum of blood after the 
clot consisting of fibrin and corpuscles has been removed. The commercial 
commercial article is made in several qualities, the best refined Albumen, 
being of a yellowish colour; the dark-coloured albumins have been im- 
perfectly refined. It sh6uld be in thin layers or flakes, transparent, free 
from objectionable smell, and completely soluble in cold water when well 
stirred. It is liable to be adulterated with gum dextrin, sugar, casein, &c. 
Fish albumin is occasionally met with, but is easily recognizable by its 
odour. Blood albumin forms a good substitute for white of egg, but owing 
to the absence of fibrous membranes it does not yield so stiff and good a 

foam when whipped. 

VOL. I. 36 



282 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

Gelatin is obtained from hoofs, horns, bones, hides, &e., by boiling with 
water or steaming. The liquor is strained, and skimmed, and concentrated, 
and then allowed to gelatinize in thin sheets by cooling. Pure 
gelatin is a white glassy solid, devoid of taste or smell. When 
heated it softens but does not melt. Placed in cold water it swells greatly, 
absorbing much water; it does not, however, dissolve to any extent, but 
upon warming to 30° C. (86° F.) it is dissolved completely. Upon cooling, 
solutions of gelatin set to a firm jelly. It will be seen from these properties 
that gelatin bears no resemblance to true albumins, for it is insoluble in 
cold water; nor does it set and becon)e insoluble when heated to near the 
boiling-point of water. This great difference in properties renders gelatin 
<iuite unsuitable as a substitute for eggs in all goods requiring to be baked, 
though doubtless it is fairly efficient if required for preparing royal icing 
or ice cream. Meringues or macaroons made with gelatin cannot be ob- 
tained of any bulk, because the gelatin begins to soften and pass into solu- 
tion just when it is required to coagulate and form an insoluble film. On 
boiling gelatin for long periods, or by repeatedly raising the temperature 
of gelatin to the boiling-point of water, its power of setting is completely 
destroyed. The suitability of a gelatin for food purposes is readily tested 
by pouring boiling water upon it and allowing it to stand for a short time. 
If the gelatin is pure the solution will remain unaltered in colour, and no 
unpleasant odour will be noted. The solution should be perfectly trans- 
parent and tasteless. A yellow colour or offensive odour shows the material 
to be unfit for culinary purposes. Isinglass is a variety of gelatin obtained 
from the swimming-bladder of the sturgeon and other fishes. It is some- 
times adulterated with bone gelatin and other kinds of glue. On treating 
isinglass with hot water it swells to a whitish opal jelly and dissolves. 
On account of its greater solubility and inferior viscosity it is less 
suitable than gelatin as an aerating agent. 

Separated dried milk is the latest addition to the number of substitutes 
for eggs. It is a whitish flocculent powder, having a faint caseous odour. 
It is prepared from milk by separating the fats and then acidify- 
ing the solution with acetic acid. The precipitated casein is 
afterwards washed and dried. Casein solutions can be whipped, but do 
not yield a stiff or permanent froth. The froth possesses very little lifting 
power, though upon baking the casein films set to a horny insoluble 
condition. Casein is now used considerably in the manufacture of diabetic 
specialities. Bread and biscuits which are perfectly free from starch are 
made from it, and they are much more palatable than the gluten and bran 
products to which sufferers from this complaint were formerly confined. 

There does not appear to be any natural substance possessing quite the 
same physical properties as white of egg, though it is somewhat closely 
Separated I'esembled by wheat gluten, with its insoluble glutenin, forming 
Gluten. a framework upon which the slightly more soluble gliadin can 
form a film stretching between the fibrous net-work. In is this dual nature 
to which both materials owe their usefulness as aerators. Separated gluten 



SPICES AND SEEDS 283 

now finds its way into the market in considerably larger quantity than 
formerly. It is generally obtained as a by-product from the manufacture 
of starch. Its chief present use is in the manufacture of diabetic bread and 
biscuits and other invalid food preparations, but it may at some future 
time become an egg substitute, since it certainly possesses aerating pro- 
perties perhaps excelling eggs themselves. 



CHAPTER XLIX 

FLAVOURING SUBSTANCES: SPICES AND SEEDS 

In order to impart to his products those delicate flavours and odours 
upon which their palatability very largely depends, the confectioner lays 
under contribution a great variety of substances, almost all of which are 
derived from vegetable sources. The appreciation of flavour is an idio- 
syncrasy not alone of individuals, but applying equally to nations, and 
consequently it will be found that the most incongruous substances have, 
at one time or another, been valued for their flavouring properties. To 
attempt even an enumeration of all the substances which have served this 
purpose in the past, or which may be in use at the present day, would be of 
no utility. Our attention will therefore be confined to short notices of the 
characters and properties of the materials having chief commercial impor- 
tance, whilst special attention will be paid to those artificial substances 
which in some instances have almost displaced the natural products. 

Spices 

The principal flavouring substances are roughly divided into three 
groups: — 1. Spices. 2. Aromatic seeds. 3. Essential oils and liqueurs. 
The spices are invariably used in the form of powder, classification of 
They comprise almost every vegetable structure: fruits. Flavouring Agents, 
flowers, buds, leaves, stems, barks, and roots. The reduction of many of 
these substances to a fine pulverulent form is a matter of considerable 
difficulty, necessitating heavy machinery, and they are consequently nearly 
always purchased from the merchant or spice-grinder in powder form. 

Owing to their strong odour and flavour, spices are comparatively 
easily adulterated with worthless material, the high cost of the spice 
furnishing a powerful incentive to unscrupulous traders. The Adulteration 
commonest form of adulteration consists in grinding along °^ Spices, 
with the spice quantities of husks or shells. Among those so used 
cocoa-nut, Brazil nut, almond shells, olive and date stones, sawdust of 
various trees may be noted. Other adulterants are bran of different 
cereals, cotton-seed shells, and the hulls of peas, beans, and vetches. 
Although the addition of some of these substances may not be actually 



284 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

harmful, yet since it considerably reduces the flavouring power of the 
spice, it is a distinct monetary loss to the confectioner. The pungency 
of most spices is due to essential oils which they contain, and another 
form of sophistication consists in exhausting the spice with alcohol, thus 
extracting a considerable portion of the essential oils, and afterwards 
grinding the residual marc. 

The recognition of foreign husks can be readily accomplished with 
the microscope, which is, indeed, indispensable for the examination of the 
powdered spices. It, however, necessitates considerable acquaintance with 
the microscopic appearance of the pure spices, if it is to be applied suc- 
cessfully. The detection of exhausted spice can usually only be accom- 
plished by chemical methods, the best test being, perhaps, determinations of 
the ether extracts. The volatile ether extract gives the amount of essential 
oil, and the non-volatile indicates the amount of fixed or fatty oil. 

Powdered spices require to be thoroughly blended into the flour before 
any other ingredients are added. 

Ginger is the root-stock of the herb Zingiber officinaLe, a native of India 
and China, but now cultivated in America, Africa, and Australia. The root 
is dug up when the plant is one year old. Whole ginger appears 
in commerce in two forms. The most highly prized is hlach ginger, 
which is the root simply boiled immediately after digging, to prevent ger- 
mination, and then dried. WJiite ginger is the scraped or decorticated 
root, sometimes bleached or covered with carbonate of lime to impart 
greater whiteness. Black ginger has a greyish wrinkled skin with a brown 
under layer. The interior of the root is of a yellowish colour, horny and 
compact in structure. The dark epidermis contains a large amount of 
pungent resin, and this explains why its removal results in depreciation of 
value in the root. White ginger is usually sent to market in slightly 
longer pieces than the black variety, but owing to removal of the cortex 
the diameter is less than that of black ginger, whilst the aromatic proper- 
ties are somewhat lower for the same reason. Ginger contains a greenish- 
yellow aromatic oil, the amount of which varies greatly in the different 
varieties of the root. Good ginger generally contains from 4 to 6 per cent. 

The commonest form of sophistication consists in exhausting the root 

with alcohol, by which the flavour and pungency are greatly reduced. 

Exhausted There appear to be two kinds of exhaustion practised, the first 

Ginger. being by means of strong alcohol for the purpose of making 

essence or tincture of ginger, the other being by means of dilute alcohol or 

water, in the manufacture of ginger ale, &c. Exhausted ginger is seldom 

substituted alone, but is usually mixed with some whole ginger so that 

detection of the fraud may be made as difficult as possible. Other rare 

adulterations, which can only be made in ground ginger, are, the addition of 

turmeric, cereal starches, and sawdust; these are recognizable microscopi- 

„. „ ^ cally. The starch of ginger is of a characteristic ellipsoidal 
Gmger Starch. '' . .i £ £ • / i • 

Shape, and very transparent; the presence oi foreign starch is 

therefore easy to recognize. 



SPICES AND SEEDS 285 

Preserved ginger is made by boiling the root in water and then placing 
in syrup. 

True cinnamon is a native of Ceylon, and consists of the bark of a 
species of the laurel family, CinnamomuTn zeylanicum (see Plate, Spice 
Plants, No. 3). It has been highly prized as a spice from very 
ancient times. Crops are gathered in May and September, the 
two-year shoots being stripped of their bark. Cinnamon comes into the 
market in long cylinder-like rolls, having a pale yellow-brown colour, and 
slightly furrowed outer surfaces covered with dark spots. Cinnamon con- 
tains from '5 to 1 per cent of a valuable essential oil, the characteristic 
properties of which are due to cinnamic aldehyde. This constituent, like 
all the aldehydes, acts as a powerful food preservative. On account of 
the very small yield of oil and the scarcity of the true bark real cinnamon 
oil is exceedingly expensive, averaging about 7s. Qd. per fluid oz. The 
oil is very pungent, and the odour persists for very long periods. 

On account of its cost, cinnamon is largely substituted by cassia, the 
bark of CinnamiomuTn Cassia, indigenous in China and India. Cassia is 
comparatively abundant, and consequently much cheaper than true 
cinnamon. In appearance it is similar, but coarser in texture 
than true cinnamon. It is generally about four times as thick and of a 
darker colour. The wavy light-coloured lines on the exterior surface are 
also absent from cassia. The essential oil of cassia is similar to that 
occurring in cinnamon, but smaller in quantity and lacking in delicacy of 
flavour and aroma. Cassia buds are largely used in powdered cinnamon. 
They are the dried flowers of Chinese cassia. 

Cloves consist of the dried flower buds of an evergreen belonging to the 
order of myrtles, Eugenia caryophyllata (see Plate, Spice Plants, No. 1). 
The chief supplies come from Zanzibar and the West Indies. The buds 
are gathered as soon as they assume a reddish colour, and are 
spread out in the sun to dry, when the colour changes to a deep 
brown. Cloves possess a strong hot flavour, due to a volatile essential 
oil. The chief constituent of this oil is eugenol, an aldehyde which con- 
stitutes 70 per cent of the total oil. It is used as a basis for preparing 
artificial vanillin. The removal of the essential oil from the whole cloves 
is so easy that it is very frequently practised, and the exhausted cloves 
are afterwards sold, after being mixed in the proportion of about 10 to 
25 per cent with fresh ones. The only method by which this fraud can 
be detected with certainty is by a chemical determination of the quantity 
of oil, the mean quantity being about 16 to 18 per cent. The ground spice 
is often adulterated with clove stems, whilst pimento is sometimes entirely 
or in part substituted for cloves. Pimento is about one-fifth ^jy^ ^ t' 
the price of cloves, hence the inducement to use it. The struc- of Ground 
ture of this spice precludes its substitution for whole cloves, ^^°^^s- 
and when it is used for adulterating ground cloves the microscope will 
reveal the fraud. 

Pimento, allspice, or Jamaica pepper is the dried fruit of Pim£nto 



286 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

officinalis (see Plate, Spice Plants, No. 5), an evergreen belonging to the 
myrtles, growing largely in Jamaica and India. The berry is grey to 
reddish-brown in colour, of a globular shape, with wrinkled skin. 
On breaking the berry open it is found to consist of two cells, 
each containing a small kidney-shaped seed. The berries are gathered just 
before they are ripe, as, if they are allowed to mature further, some of the 
aroma is lost. The oil obtained from pimento contains eugenol, but the 
total amount of oil only reaches some 4 per cent. On account of its cheap- 
ness the form which adulteration takes usually is the addition of ground 
cocoa-nut shells, olive stones, or exhausted ginger. 

Nutmegs and 'niace are different portions of the fruit of the nutmeg tree, 
Myristica fragrans (see Plate, Spice Plants, No. 2), growing largely in 
the Malay Archipelago. As these spices are generally 
bought in their original condition adulteration is not 
easy or of frequent occurrence. The fruit of the nutmeg tree resembles 
a peach in size, and when ripe the fleshy portion splits into two, revealing 
the seed closely enveloped in a deep-red branching arillus. This aril is the 
Tnace, which, on removal and drying in the sun, becomes of a buff colour. 
The seed is also dried, and, after removal of the hard shining coat, it forms 
the nutmeg of commerce. Nutmegs are of a greyish-brown colour outside, 
due to the practice of liming to which they are submitted. The interior is 
grey in colour and oily. Nutmegs contain very large amounts of fixed oil, 
together with some volatile oil, the total fatty content amounting to about 
36 per cent of the seed. 

Mace is brittle and translucent, occurring in commerce in pieces about 
1| in. long. It contains about 22 to 37 per cent of oil. The commonest 
Adulteration form of adulteration of mace is the substitution of false or 
of Mace. Bombay mace. This variety is almost devoid of aroma and 
flavour, and its sale constitutes a distinct fraud. A test for distinguishing 
this adulterant from genuine mace consists in steeping strips of filter paper 
in an alcoholic solution of the suspected mace. On treating the paper with 
dilute sodium hydrate solution a red colour is produced if Bombay or wild 
mace is present. 

Aromatic Seeds 

Seeds are not used to any large extent in the whole, unground state, 
in bread or confectionery. The principal seed used in England is the 
caraway, but in Continental bakeries a wider variety of seeds are in use, 
chiefly for sprinkling over finished goods, as semmels, pretzels, &c. Among 
seeds in frequent use may be noted aniseed, coriander, caraway, fennel, 
poppy seed. 

Aniseed, the fruit of anise {Pimpinella Anisum), is a native of Egypt, 

but now cultivated in many parts of Europe. The fruit is ovoid in shape, 

tapering to a point at the top. It is of a greyish-brown colour, 

about I in. long, and usually has the stem attached at the base. 

Anise contains from 2 to 3 per cent of essential oil. The oil, either in the 



SPICE PLANTS 

1. Clove. 

2. Nutmeg. 

3. Cinnamon. 

4. Black Pepper. 

5. Allspice or Pimento. 



h 




SPICE PLANTS 



ESSENCES AND ESSENTIAL OILS 287 

form of alcoholic tincture or essential oil, is largely used in the preparation 
of cordials and in confectionery. 

Coriander is the fruit of Coriandmrri sativum, a native of Italy 
and the Mediterranean coast. In shape it is globular, about \ in. in dia- 
meter, and having ten fine ribs upon its exterior. The 
remains of the calyx teeth are usually to be found at the 
top. The colour is light brownish-yellow, sometimes in places passing to 
purple. The fruit is hollow, and crushes readily in the fingers. Coriander is 
used for flavouring gingerbread, honey cake, jellies, &c., whilst the alcoholic 
extract is used for improving the flavour of low-grade cocoas in chocolate 
manufacture. The flavour of coriander is mild and faintly sage-like. 

Caraways are by far the most widely used of all seeds in the whole 
state. In England they are still used to a very large extent in cake and 
biscuit manufacture, but the alcoholic extract is slowly dis- 
placing the seed in many districts. The caraway is the 
fruit of Carwni Carvi, a native of Europe. The small seed-like fruits are 
somewhat spindle-shaped, about \ in. long, and curved slightly. In colour 
they are nearly black, with sharp ribs of light brown running the length 
of the seed. The flavour is pungent and stimulating. The chief method of 
sophistication consists in exhausting the whole seeds by alcohol. 

Fennel is the fruit of a wild plant (Foeniculum vulgare). At one time 
this was known in America as " meetin' seed ", from the custom among the 
Puritans of taking sprigs of it to church to nibble during the 
service. Fennel closely resembles caraway in shape, but it is 
considerably longer and broader. In colour it is sage-green, with ribs of 
brown. In flavour fennel is quite unlike caraway, being closely similar to 
anise, though somewhat more pungent and penetrating. The seed, both 
whole and ground, is used in cookery. The essential oil also is used for 
flavouring confectionery. 



CHAPTER L 

ESSENCES AND ESSENTIAL OILS 



The flavouring substances most frequently used by bakers and con- 
fectioners are liquids, since fluids lend themselves most readily to thorough 
incorporation and accurate dosage. The absence of inert matters which 
tend to darken colour or mar the appearance of the goods places them far 
in front of spices. 

There are two principal kinds of these liquids, viz., essences and essential 
oils. Essences, including liqueurs,, waters, &c., are fluids in which alcohol is 
the chief constituent, forming the solvent for the flavouring matter. Essences 
Essential oils are the actual flavouring principles in the most and Oils, 
concentrated form. For most purposes the essential oils are to be preferred 



288 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

to the essences, waters, and other extracts, but it is not always possible to 
obtain them. For instance, the essential oils of strawberry, raspberry, and 
many other fruits are not known, and they are therefore represented by 
artificially prepared essences. 

Essential oils are obtained from practically every part of the plant ana- 
tomy. Fruit, flower, seed, leaf, bark, wood, root, each and all are laid under 
• 1 n-1 contribution. As a rule, however, the characteristic oil is 
located in greatest amount in one part only; for instance, 
lemon and orange oils in the rind of the fruit. In some cases the oil can 
be obtained from every part of the plant, as in the case of peppermint. 
Essential oils are nearly all limpid liquids. They are, when pure, probably 
all colourless; but as obtained in commerce they usually exhibit more or 
less colour due to small quantities of impurity extracted from the plant 
with the oil. Almost all are insoluble in water, and for this reason the 
addition of water to alcoholic extracts causes turbidity to occur. They are 
all very inflammable, and burn fiercely with much smoke. Most of these 
oils distil under atmospheric pressure, and all pass readily in a current of 
steam; they possess a hot burning taste and very pronounced odours, some 
pleasant, some otherwise. Essential oils do not feel greasy to the touch, 
but impart a rough, dry feeling to the skin; they have, indeed, no con- 
nection with the fatty oils whatever, and the name oil is a misnomer. It 
is, however, retained partly by custom, and used to indicate that the 
substances are the concentrated principles embodying the odour and 
flavour of the materials from which they are obtained. The essential oils 
undergo oxidation very readily, and they should consequently be stored in 
small bottles, kept as nearly full as possible, in a dark place. In specific 
gravity these oils vary greatly, some being lighter than water, and others 
heavier. Though insoluble in water, they are more or less soluble in almost 
all organic liquids — alcohol, ether, chloroform being the chief solvents. In 
chemical composition they vary enormously, many of them being complex 
mixtures of chemical compounds. Most of them can be classified into 
two groups, as (I) Volatile Oils or Hydrocarbons, and (II) Oxygenated 
Oils or Aldehydes and Ketones. The principal methods of winning 
these oils are by expression, distillation, and extraction by solvents. 
Descriptions of these methods will be given in dealing with the individual 
oils. 

It is necessary to utter a word of warning in connection with the 
purchase of essential oils. Probably in no other trade has adulteration 
Adulteration of become such an art involving so little risk of detection as is 
Essential Oils, ^j^g ^g^gg to-day in the essential-oil industry. Except by the 
highly trained chemist, who has specialized in this branch of analysis, the 
detection of adulteration is a matter of practical impossibility, and it is 
quite possible for every ofiicial test to be met by an oil which is entirely 
an artificial mixture. It is therefore absolutely necessary to purchase only 
from those reputable firms who will sell under strict guarantee that the 
articles are genuine natural products. It is perfectly true that in many 



ESSENCES AND ESSENTIAL OILS 289 

cases the synthetic products are identical in chemical composition with 

tlie natural ones; still, it is better to purchase such substances at market 

rates, with one's eyes open, as artificial products, than to buy them at an 

enhanced figure under the impression that they are cheap natural ones. 

Again, it must be remembered that the strongest smelling and tasting 

oils are not always the most satisfactory. Flavour should always be 

more or less a creation of the mind, just induced by a suspicion of some 

marked principle rather than that coarse biting taste which overpowers 

the taste nerves and revolts the educated palate. Great moderation 

should always be exercised in the use of these concentrated materials, 

so as to avoid spoiling good products through a too liberal use of the 

flavour bottle. 

Of all the essential oils, that of lemon is the sheet-anchor of the 

confectioner, and used in just the right proportion none is more pleasant 

and refreshinof. Unfortunately this essence is sometimes used ^., . _ 

. ,.,... ,. „ , Oil of Lemon, 

in such lavish quantity to mask interior ingredients of the 

mixing that there is danger of its falling into bad repute. Oil of lemon 
is obtained from the fruit of Citrus limonuTn. It is generally prepared 
during the months of November to April. The chief centre of the in- 
dustry is Messina, though much is also produced in the Palermo district 
of Sicily. The oil is obtained sometimes by means of strong pressure 
upon the rinds, by which the oil cells become ruptured and the oil escapes 
and is collected on the surface of water. Another method consists in 
removing the rinds in three pieces, scraping the surfaces, and pressing 
upon a sponge. The sponge is afterwards squeezed to recover the oil. 
By this process a worker can produce 1^ lb. of lemon oil per day. Re- 
covery by distillation is not practised except in the case of poor qualities, 
since lemon oil is injured by this process. To purify the oil it is simply 
filtered. 

Citral is the constituent to which the flavour and odour of lemon oil are 
chiefly due, and it occurs in pure oil to the extent of about 5 to 7 per cent. 
The great bulk of the remainder of even pure lemon oils Flavouring 
consists of terpenes. Unfortunately even the citral content Agent m Lemon, 
cannot be relied upon as a test of purity, for low-grade lemon oils are 
commonly fortified by the addition of citral obtained from lemon-grass oil. 
Citral is artificially prepared by oxidizing geraniol with chromic acid. 
Other methods of adulteration consist in treating orange oil with turpentine 
in such quantity as will escape detection. The chief method of adulterating 
now consists in adding the " terpenes " — obtained in the process of making 
" terpeneless " oils — to turpentine. It is practically useless to test lemon 
oils for adulteration by any simple process, since every test of the Pharma- 
copoeia is easily evaded by the adulterator. 

Lemon oil is imported in original coppers containing 10 to 100 lb., and 
genuine oil will cost about 5 to 6 shillings per lb. 

Lemon essences should contain 5 per cent of lemon oil in dilute alcohol. 
In making cheap essences the chief object is to use as little alcohol as 

VOL. I. ' 37 



290 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

possible on the score of expense; but if less than 45 per cent spirit is 

Essence of used no lemon oil will be dissolved at all. Still, such fluids are 

Lemon. frequently made, and they do possess a certain odour and taste 

of lemon, although no oil can be detected by analysis. The flavour is 

sometimes reinforced by artificial citral, citronella, or lemon-grass oil, whilst 

colouring in the form of turmeric or coal-tar dyes is used to obtain the 

characteristic tint. 

Oil of orange is obtained from orange peel in the same manner as lemon 

oil is prepared. It is a yellow-coloured liquid, of mild flavour, some- 

^., - ^ times used as a substitute for lemon oil after mixing: with 

Oil of Orange. ... " 

terpenes or turpentine to impart the necessary pungency. 

Lemon-grass oil is obtained by distillation from Andropogo7i citratus, 
a grass cultivated in India. The oil is reddish-yellow in colour, with an 
Lemon- intense lemon-like odour and flavour. It contains large quan- 
Grass Oil. titles of citral, amounting often to 75 per cent. 

Citronella oil is the distillation product of the grass Andropogon 
Nardus. It is a yellowish to brown liquid. It does not resemble lemon 
C't 11 0"1 ^^^ ^^^^ much in odour, though its flavour is somewhat 
similar. 

Peppermint oil is the product of Mentha piperita, growing wild in 
some parts of England, and cultivated to some extent in Cambridgeshire, but 
Oil of notably at Mitcham, Surrey. The whole plant is rich in the 

Peppermint, fine-flavoured oil, which is obtained by distillation. The oil 
has a greenish -yellow colour usually, and the odour is strong and pene- 
trating. It contains menthol, to which the cold feeling in the mouth 
is attributable. The oil should dissolve in four times its volume of 
70-per-cent alcohol. 

Essence of Peppermint essence should contain 3 per cent of the 

Peppermint, essential oil. 

Among the many other essential oils may be mentioned the various 

extracts of orange flowers, e.g. neroli, petit grain, otto of roses. These 

oils are prepared principally for the perfumery industry, 

but they also form the basis for some of the waters used 

in flavouring lozenges, &c., in confectionery. 

Essential oils can be prepared from all spices and aromatic seeds, and 
consequently essential oils of anise, cloves, coriander, cassia, cinnamon. 
Essential Oils caraway, ginger, mace, and nutmeg are commercial products, 
from Spices. They are obtained by the general methods already mentioned, 
the process being adapted to produce the finest quality of oil. In many 
cases these essential oils are displacing the spice mixtures, of which they 
form the flavouring principle, the reason for this being largely, that the 
use of the oils obviates the disadvantage of introducing quantities of inert 
coloured cellular and fibrous matter into mixings, thus to some extent 
affecting the delicacy of colour. By using essential oils also various delicate 
blended flavours can be obtained, which would be almost impossible if the 
spice substances had to be used. 



ESSENCES AND ESSENTIAL OILS 291 

Oil of bitter almonds is obtained by maceration of crushed bitter 
almonds in water and subsequent distillation of the liquid, the distillate 
being the impure oil. The bitter almond, Amygdalus com- oil of Bitter 
Tiiunis, was the original source of this flavouring material, Almonds, 
and hence the name which is now applied to this oil whatever source it 
is prepared from. It may be obtained from peach, plum, and apricot 
kernels, laurel leaves, mountain-ash bark, and indeed all members of 
the group Amygdalinse. The oil does not exist free in these bodies, but 
is contained in the form of a glucoside known as amygdalin. This 
substance can be split into three parts, forming respectively benzaldehyde, 
glucose, and hydrocyanic acid. The formula for this change is usually 
written thus: — 

C20H27NOH + 2H2O = CyHgO + HON + 2C6H,20e 

Amygdalin. Water. Benzaldehyde. Hydrocyanic acid. Glucose. 

This change is brought about by the agency of a ferment or enzyme found 
in almonds, called emulsin. When the crushed nuts are macerated in 
water the above change takes place, and upon distillation of the liquid 
the benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid pass over with some of the water. 
Hydrocyanic acid (prussic acid) is a deadlj^ poison, and the prussic Acid 
distillate is freed from this dangerous impurity by means ^" Almonds, 
of lime water and ferric chloride. The oil is then redistilled and dried over 
calcium chloride. It is well when buying natural oil of bitter almonds to 
obtain a guarantee of freedom from prussic acid. 

Benzaldehyde is a faintly yellow mobile liquid having a burning bitter 
taste and strong almond odour. It boils at 180° C (356° F.), and on stand- 
ing in air becomes oxidized to benzoic acid. It is very soluble Artificial Oil 
in ether and alcohol and but slightly so in water. Benzalde- °^ Almonds, 
hyde can be synthetically prepared by many methods, perhaps the best 
being treatment of toluene by chlorine. The benzyl chloride thus formed 
yields benzaldehyde on distillation with lead nitrate. Thus the oil is 
obtained directly from coal tar. This synthetic oil has exactly the same 
chemical constitution as the natural oil, and has in consequence largely 
replaced it upon the market. Its chief claims to use are entire freedom 
from any trace of prussic acid, and great cheapness. 

Benzaldehyde was at one time often substituted by oil of mirhane, but 
the discovery of synthetic methods of making the true oil has almost 
entirely superseded the use of this artificial substance. Dangerous Sub- 
Nitrobenzene is the true chemical name for this body, stitute for Oil 
It is a heavy yellow oil, boiling at 205° C. (401° F.), and °^ Almonds, 
having a strong sickly odour and taste of almonds. It is obtained by 
nitrating benzene and distilling the product to purify it. Its chemical 
formula is CgHgNOg, and it will be seen that it is quite unlike true benzal- 
dehyde in composition. Nitrobenzene is markedly poisonous, 
and instances of death through inadvertence have occurred 
on several occasions. This substance should on no account be used as 



292 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

a flavouring agent in food-stuffs, and no justification whatever can be 
urged for its employment. To .detect nitrobenzene boil 15 c.c. of the 
extract with a little strong potassic hydrate solution. A blood-red colour 
will result with nitrobenzene. Nitrobenzene is only about one-third the 
price of synthetic benzaldehyde or the common natural oils obtained from 
peach kernels. 

Raiafia and Ratafia and kirsch essences owe their principal flavours to 
Kirsch. benzaldehyde. 

The vanilla bean (vanilloes) is the fruit of a climbing orchid, Vanilla 
planifolia, indigenous in South America and the West Indies. Mexican 
beans are the most highly prized; but practically the whole 
available supply is absorbed in America, the European 
demands being met chiefly by the Seychelles and Mauritius products. 
The beans, as they are erroneously called, are about 8 in. in length and 
I in. thick, narrowing and slightly curving toward the ends. They have 
a rich dark-brown colour, and feel waxy to the touch. Deep rifts traverse 
the length of the pods, the surface of which is frequently covered with a 
fine frost-like coating of vanillin crystals. In the centre of the pods a 
thick yellow granular balsam is found, and to this the delicious odour of 
the fruit is largely due. This balsam is not soluble in water, and when 
very dilute alcohol is employed it is not extracted, and consequently 
extracts weak in. alcohol are inferior in quality. Upon soaking in w^ater 
the pods swell up and become triangular in shape. When gathered, the 
fruits are of a yellowish-green colour and without odour. The odour is 
developed as the result of a fermentation or " sweating " process, the 
method difl'ering slightly in various countries. The best method consists 
in sun-drying the pods for about a month, with alternate pressing between 
blankets and exposure to the air. The famous Mexican vanilla is prepared 
in this manner. Another method consists in using artificial heat, and then 
drying the pods by exposure to calcium chloride. By this means the time 
of maturation is greatly reduced, but the quality of the pods cured in this 
manner is decidedly inferior. Vanilla owes its characteristic odour and 
flavour to the chemical compound vanillin, a derivative of protocatechuic 
aldehyde. This substance crystallizes in fine needles. It is scarcely 
soluble in water, but readily in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. Its melting- 
point is 80° C. (176° F.). 

The quantity present in vanilla pods is variable, and the highest prized 
Vanillin in beans have the smallest content of vanillin, as the following 

Vanilla Beans, figures of Tiemann and Haarman show: — 

Mexican beans ... ... ... ... 169 per cent vanillin. 

Bourbon „ 2-48 „ 

Java „ ... ... ... ... 2*75 „ 

In addition to vanillin, the pods contain notable amounts of gum, resin, 
sugar, &c., all of which contribute to the formation of the final flavour. 

Vanillin (CgHgOg) can be produced artificially in a variety of ways. 



ESSENCES AND ESSENTIAL OILS 293 

Oriji;inally it was obtained by the oxidation of coniferin, a substance 
occurring in pine trees. This process, however, is now super- a t'fi ' l 
seded by one which consists in using eugenol and iso-eugenol Production of 
as the base substances, which upon oxidation in alkaline ^^"'^^^"• 
solution yield vanillin. Eugenol is found in large amount in clove oil. 
Many other methods are also now in use. The vanillin obtained artificially 
is identical with natural vanillin in all respects, being a pure chemical 
substance; but it does not possess the full bouquet associated with natural 
extracts from vanilla pods. 

Genuine vanilla extracts should contain 10 parts of the soluble matter 
from vanilla pods in 100 parts of dilute alcohol. Most extracts are sweetened 
with sugar, and many contain also glycerin. The best extracts Vaniila 
are obtained by macerating the pods in alcohol for several months. Extract. 
The content of vanillin in even the best extracts rarely exceeds 2 per 
cent. Some makers use alkalies to obtain greater extractions, especially 
when using very dilute alcohol, but this practice greatly injures the flavour. 
Adulterations of vanilla extract usually take the form of substituting 
artificial vanillin and colouring the product with caramel. Body and 
colour also is imparted to factitious extracts by means of prune juice. 
Tinctures of coumarin and tonka beans are also largely used as sub- 
stitutes for vanilloes. Such artificial compounds, whilst often possessing 
a strong vanilla flavour, are nevertheless much coarser, and lack the 
refinement so marked in genuine extracts. Another form of adultera- 
tion consists in treating the marc, after alcoholic extraction, with water, 
and fortifying the liquid obtained with artificial vanillin and colouring 
matter. 

Tonka beans are seeds of a tree native in Guiana, and known as 
JDipteryx odorata. The pods are almond-shaped, having a single seed 
about 1| in. long, in shape like a kidney bean. The bean is of Tonka 
a dark-brown colour, with a shining, brittle skin. The active Beans, 
principle is coumarin, the anhydride of coumaric acid. Coumarin can 
be extracted from the beans by means of alcohol; it crystallizes in slender 
needles, shorter and thicker than vanillin crystals. The melting-point 
is 67° C. (153° F.). Coumarin is only slightly soluble in water, but very 
soluble in alcohol, ether, Szc. Coumarin is now synthetically prepared 
by heating salicylic aldehyde with acetic anhydride and sodium acetate. 
The resulting acetocoumaric acid decomposes, forming acetic acid and 
coumarin. This artificial coumarin is often used in making factitious 
vanilla extracts. The presence of coumarin in vanilla extracts Artificial 
is readily detected by anyone acquainted with both kinds, by Coumarin. 
the odour alone. In the case of coumarin the odour is always more 
pungent than vanillin, and when in admixture it usually predominates 
over the milder vanilla odour. Acetate of lead added to a portion of 
the extract should produce a heavy precipitate with genuine vanilla 
extracts. If none is obtained this is conclusive proof that the extract 
is artificial. If only a cloudy precipitate is obtained which does fiot settle 



294 CONFECTIONERY MATERIALS 

well, the extract should be regarded with suspicion, as it is probably 
coloured by caramel. 

Vanilla is used in a variety of ways. Either the pod is pulverized 
and used, as in the case of chocolate-making, or it may be used as a tincture. 
Use of or mixed with sugar either as the whole pod or as extract. 
Vanilla. Vanilla extract is made by macerating 3 to 4 oz. of the finely 
chopped pods in 1 pint of rectified spirit, 50 per cent strength, for about 
one month. Filter and preserve in a closely stoppered bottle. Vanilla 
sugar is made by dissolving 1 oz. of vanillin crystals in 4 oz. of alcohol 
by warming to 35° C. (95° F.). Pour over about 14 lb. of sugar in a 
mortar and mix thoroughly. Leave exposed to air for twenty-four hours 
to dry, and then pack into a stoppered bottle to store. 

Vanillons are the fruits of the wild vanilla plant. The odour is quite 
. unlike that of true vanilla, and resembles heliotrope rather 

closely. These beans are used only in perfumery. 



CHAPTER LI 

LIQUEURS AND FRUIT ESSENCES 

Liqueurs 

Liqueurs are simply strong alcoholic syrups, in which small quantities 
of certain essential oils are dissolved. For the purpose of making them 
Liqueur it is necessary that the oils used should not cause turbidity 

Flavourings, upon addition of water, or else the appearance of the product 
would be spoiled. For this reason only oils containing little or no resin 
can be employed, and oxygenated oils are mostly drawn upon. In the 
preparation of confectionery, ices, &c., the most highly prized liqueurs are 
the following: — 

Curagoa is made by distilling spirits in which have been soaked 
cinnamon, cura(;oa peel (a rare species of orange), and other 
spices. De Brevans gives the following recipe for its pre- 
paration: — Alcohol (85 per cent), 5 litres; cinnamon, 4 gm.; mace, 2 gm.; 
rasped skins of 18 oranges; white sugar, 1750 gm. Macerate the alcohol 
and spices for fourteen days. Distil and add sugar to distillate, and 
colour with caramel. 

Maraschino was originally obtained from the sour Italian cheiTy. It 

is now commonly made by distillinsf a mixture of wild cherries. 

Maraschino. «/ %/ o ^ ' 

raspberries, cherry leaves, peach nuts, and orris root, sugar 

being added to the distillate. 

Benedictine contains much sugar, and is flavoured by 

angelica, hyssop, nutmeg, and peppermint. 

Chartreuse. Chartreuse is similarly made. 



Benedictine. 



LIQUEURS AND FRUIT ESSENCES 295 

Angostura is made with Angostura bark and other 

^ " Angostura, 

spices. 

Greme de Menthe, according to De Brevans, is made as follows: — Pepper- 
mint, 600 gm.; balm, 40 gm.; sage, 10 gm.; cinnamon, 20 gm.; Creme de 
orris, 10 gm.; ginger, 15 gm.; alcohol, 80 per cent, 5030 gm.; Menthe. 
sugar, 3750 gm. 

The green colour is sometimes imparted by chlorophyll in the best 
qualities, but in cheap grades it is obtained by coal-tar dyes. 

Fruit Essences 

Fruit essences are almost entirely artificial productions, since it is 
practically impossible to extract from the fruits their dis- Nature of 
tinctive flavours in quantities sufficient for commercial ^'■"'* Essences, 
purposes. 

As a rule, these flavours are compounded from various ethers; and 
whilst these do possess a certain resemblance to the real fruit flavour, yet 
they are generally much coarser and lack the delicacy which is so distinc- 
tive of the natural substances. Some of the compound ethers bear odours 
and flavours which strikingly resemble certain fruits, and such can be used 
singly. In other cases complex blends have to be made in order to simu- 
late nature. It is needless to remark that such substances should never be 
sold as " pure fruit essences ", but should always be declared as of artificial 
origin. Among the best-known essences are the following: — 

Pineapi^le essence is butyric ether dissolved in alcohol. It is prepared 
by mixing butyric acid and alcohol in equal parts, and treat- Pineapple 
ing with concentrated sulphuric acid. The mixture is distilled Essence, 
to obtain the ether. It is a colourless liquid insoluble in water, with a 
boiling point of 228° C. (442° F.). 

Pear essence is an alcoholic solution of amyl acetate. The ether is 

prepared from amyl alcohol and potassium acetate by dis- ^ ^ 

^ . .. ... Pear Essence. 

tillation with sulphuric acid. The colourless distillate is 

insoluble in water and boils at 137° C. (279° F.). 

Apple essence is amyl valerianate dissolved in alcohol. It is made by 
taking equal parts of amyl alcohol and sulphuric acid and adding Apple 
to the cooled mixture valerianic acid, and subsequently distilling. Essence. 
The ether boils at 188° C. (370° F.). 

An extraordinary number of blended essences are put upon the market. 
Among the more important may be noted the following, the formulae for 
which have been selected from Kletzensky's table in the Composition of 
United States Dispensatory. In all cases the number of Fruit Essences, 
parts given in the table are to be added to 100 parts of rectified alcohol. 

In many cases instead of using essences or oils it is more satisfactory 
to use the fruits themselves for flavour. Thus, lemon flavour Real Fruit 
can be imparted to cakes and ices best by using the zest; orange Flavours, 
by using peel cut so fine as to be imperceptible in the cakes. Ginger in the 



296 



CONFECTIONEKY GOODS 



preserved form is an excellent addition to rich cakes. When oils or essences 
are used .it is better to obtain good qualities and use them with great care. 



TABr.E I'OR Compounding Fkuit Essences 





(O 

1 


i 
1 

1 
1 

5 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

5 
1 

4 


1 

§ 

o 
O 

1 
5 

1 
1 

5 

1 
1 


c5 

2 


^ 

V 

U 


S 

s 


*5 
B 

a 

Z 

a 


i 

8 
"E 


Chloroform ... 
Nitrous ether 
Aldehyde ... 
Acetic ether 
Formic ether 
Butyric ether 
Valerianic ether .. 
Benzoic ether 
(Enanthic ether 
Oil of persicot 
Sebacic ether 
Methyl salicylic eth( 
Amyl alcohol 
Amyl acetic ether . . 
Amyl butyric ether 
Saturated alcoholic s 

Tartaric acid . . 

Oxalic acid 

Succinic acid .. 

Benzoic acid 
Glycerin 


iV 

lolution of — 


1 

5 

1 

5 

1 

3 
2 

2 


2 
2 
2 

10 

1 

5 

3 

10 


10 

5 
2 

1 
3 


5 
5 
1 
2 

4 

8 


1 

5 

1 
1 

5 

1 
1 


1 
1 

10 
5 

1 

2 
1 
1 

4 



In addition to the flavours already given may be added butter flavour, 
now frequently sold for use in goods made with the various substitute fats, 
Butter to impart butter flavour. This essence consists of butyric ether 
Flavour, dissolved in alcohol, sometimes with the addition of traces of 
myristic ether. 



CHAPTER LII 



FERMENTED BUNS 



Not so many years ago the craft of the confectioner in Great Britain 
was as much separated from that of the bread baker as it is still in most 
The old Cook Continental countries. The cooks — men and women — were 
Confectioners, the confectioners, and while there was a firmly-established 
craft of old English confectioners, their duties were not distinctively con- 
fined to flour confectionery. The old title of pastry cook betrays the posi- 
tion they occupied as attendants on cooks, or as cooks themselves, with 
pastry baking as a sort of by-occupation. Midway between the cooks and 
Old-time ^^^ bread bakers were the biscuit bakers, who were of very 

Biscuit Bakers, great importance in the days before the biscuit factories. 
Modern developments have resulted in the pastry cook becoming more and 



FP:RiMENTED BUNS 297 

more divorced from his duties as cook, and more and more engaged in those 
of the pastry baker. This is especially true of those who are employed in 
ordinary bakery establishments, but is not quite so true of piace of the 
those employed in the kitchens of hotels and restaurants. Pastry Cook. 
The old confectioner was also a man who had to concern himself a great deal 
with sugar and sugar-boiling. His modern representative has still to know 
a great deal about sugar, but is much less of an expert in sugar-boiling. 
The reason of this seems to be that the tastes of the consuming public 
in the matter of table confectionery have very much altered. Public Taste 
and there is a dwindling demand, or an entire disappearance of Altered, 
the demand, for the elaborate and costly confections made from pulled and 
spun sugar, the place of which has been taken by Continental delicacies in 
which fondant and flavoured creams occupy so prominent a place. 

The occupation of the biscuit baker as a distinctive craftsman has also 
suffered by the change of public taste and by the competition of the large 
factories. The modern confectioner has therefore to gain an Biscuit Bakers 
exhaustive experience of the kind of goods which not so Crushed Out. 
long ago were considered purely Continental. He has also to take up the 
residuum of the work which used to be done by the biscuit Modem Flour 
baker, and last but not least, he has to be skilful in pro- Confectioner, 
ducing the common goods which form the bulk of the sales in the majority 
of bakers' shops. 

There are still a great many establishments in which flour confectionery 
only is made, a larger number still in which bread and confectionery are 
kept strictly apart, some in which both are produced by the Mixture of 
same hands, and some in which bread only is made. But these Trades, 
distinctions and divisions are gradually disappearing. There are very few 
bread bakeries in which cake and some sorts of confectionery are not now 
being made, and, on the other hand, those which have hitherto been devoted 
only to the confectionery trade are gradually opening out with bread. 

To meet the needs of all, the purpose underlying the scheme of the 
Confectionery Section of this work is to deal with the whole confectionery 
trade thoroughly, nothing being considered too plain, cheap, or common to 
warrant neglect, and nothing too costly or uncommon to place it out of the 
range of careful treatment. In pursuance of this plan the simplest matters 
relating to confectionery — the consideration of the goods, in fact, which 
usually fall to the bread bakers to make — will be dealt with 
first. Buns answer this description, and are otherwise worthy 
of first place, because they are old in favour and yet seem to retain the 
respect if not the love of the average customer amidst all the changes of 
taste that are taking place in other directions. 

In making fermented buns there are certain considerations which are 
common to all sorts and varieties. Amongst these it is impor- influence 
tant to take stock of the kind of flour with which the best of Flour in 
results are to be obtained. The nature of the flour, perhaps, ""^' 
more than anything else determines the kind of bun that will be produced. 

Vol. I. 38 



298 CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

If only bulk is to be considered, then very strong flour may be used, 
the fat employed being to some extent corrective of the harshness which 
Strong Flour follows the use of very strong flour by itself in bread. But as 
Mellowed. softness and keeping properties are of really more considera- 
tion than bulk, flour that is a little less than the strongest is very suitable 
for all this class of goods. The writer has obtained these qualities in buns 
Kansas and ^^ ^ ^^S^ degree when using a patent grade Kansas flour, 

Australian Flour a high grade Australian, and a patent grade British-milled 
flour. In recipes sometimes made public, the use of Hun- 
garian or, as it is generally called, Vienna flour, is strongly advised, but, 
except for buns that are not wanted large, and that can be sold at a full 
price, it is a mistake to use this sort of flour, when better results can be 
obtained by the use of the products of our own mills at a lower price. 
Flour that is suitable for bread-making, containing almost 105 per cent 
of dry gluten, is generally suitable for fermented buns. A reservation 
Hungarian ^^7' tiowever, be made in the case of very rich buns of the 
Flour for Bath type. These, owing to their richness, are not wanted 
ic uns. |g^j.gg^ g^j^^j jjQ^ being fermented very much, would be tough 
if made with very strong flour. Flour of the Hungarian or Australian 
sorts is therefore best suited for such goods. 

It is an almost invariable practice in bun-making to make a ferment 
with milk, sugar, flour, and yeast as a preliminary stage. The object is 
p to make a small quantity of yeast do a great quantity of work 

of Ferment by actually multiplying the number of yeast cells in the fer- 
Stage. ment itself; but probably quite as much advantage is obtained 

by the development of the yeast cell in its flour environment, which is 
akin to a sort of acclimatizing influence that fits it better to stand the 
Use of Ferment conditions prevailing in the subsequent dough stage. It 
in Bun-making, is not impossible to make buns, and very satisfactory 
buns, too, by the straight-dough method, but the yeast in such cases seems 
Straight- ^^ work much slower, especially at the beginning of the 

Dough Buns, process. The explanation seems to be that the presence of 
so much fat and sugar mixed with the flour produces a condition not very 
favourable to the activity of yeast when it is first immersed in it. 

There is great diversity of opinion amongst bakers and confectioners 
as to the proper quantity of flour and other ingredients to use in the 
Thin versus ferment. Some favour one that is very thin, whilst others 

Thick Ferments, think the best results are obtained with one that is rather 
thick, or, as it is called, a strong ferment. It may be urged against a 
very thin mixture that the flour in such a ferment falls to a layer at 
the bottom, and although the sugar added, with that naturally in the 
flour, as well as the soluble proteids of the latter, will still be available 
for yeast food and growth, the ferment is unsatisfactory, because it either 
does not rise in a healthy way or it drops too soon. A very thick ferment, 
on the other hand, is more like a soft dough, and confines the action of the 
individual yeast cell to a very prescribed area, because there is little or no 



FERMENTED BUNS 299 

flow of the matei'ial of the ferment from one part to another. The best 
results are obtained with a ferment that is just thick enough to support 
its own material without allowing the flour to deposit, and yet not thick 
enough to prevent a free movement of the material, and proper 
therefore of the yeast within the ferment. This result Quantity of Flour 
will generally be obtained by using about 8 oz. of flour '" erment. 
to 1 qt. of liquor, whether milk or water. It is quite a safe plan to make 
and maintain a ferment at 86" to 90° F., and this will gene- Temperature 
rally require w^ater about 100° to 104° F. A ferment of this for Ferments. 
kind should drop in from thirty to forty minutes. Some men are very 
particular to reckon the amount of sugar in the ferment as a deduction 
from the total sugar required to sweeten the buns, but this need sugar in 
not be done. It is not necessary to have more than 2 or 3 oz. of Ferment, 
sugar for each quart of liquor used in the ferment, but it should be remem- 
bered that after this sugar has been fermented it has no sweetening effect 
whatever. As yeast growth and not gas production is the desideratum in 
a ferment, it is a mistake to use even the larger quantity of sugar here 
stated at the ferment stage, as it is known that when yeast is at its 
maximum activity in producing gas and alcohol it is less active sugar not 
in producing new yeast. The latter eflfect may be increased, a Yeast- 
however, by the manner in which the ferment is prepared. ^'^° ^^^^' 
The yeast should be thoroughly broken down and mixed in a small portion 
of the water only, as it evades the mixing utensil if first placed in the 
whole of the liquor. When made into a paste with some of the water 
it may then be easily mixed through the remainder. The Aerating 
sugar should be added, then the flour, and a small hand Bun Ferment, 
whisk used to mix thoroughly and aerate the whole ferment. The incor- 
poration of a considerable quantity of air in this way is credited with 
increasing the vitality and activity of the yeast, if only care is taken not to 
reduce the temperature. 

Some profess to find great virtue in adding part of or all the eggs at 
the ferment stage, but the advantages are very doubtful. If only a few 
eggs are to be used in a mixing, their addition to the ferment Eggs in 
is a matter of little moment, but if the ferment is one for rich Ferment, 
buns, the addition of the eggs at that stage acts rather as a cloy or hin- 
drance to yeast activity. The proteids of egg or of the parts of egg are 
not directly suitable for yeast food, and their addition to the ferment is 
not, therefore, as some suppose, a means to greater vitality. 

Coming now to the dough stage of bun-making, it is important to note 
that, with regard to both fat and sugar, there are limits to the proportions 
that may be used. For fats, experience teaches that it is Eifects of 
nearly impossible to get any fermentation at all if more than Excessive Fat. 
4 oz. of fat to each 1 lb. of flour is used. With care in handling this 
quantity can be used, but only along with moderately strong flours, and 
then only if the fat is added in such a way as not to give the flour a 
greasy feel. On this account it is better, if the quantity of fat is large, 



300 CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

to rub it in with the flour very loosely, rather than to run it in melted, or 
Mixing Fat rubbed amongst the flour very finely. One very curious point 
or Melting, about the influence of fat on flour is, that if these be rubbed 
together and then allowed to lie for a week or two in that condition, and 
then made into bun dough with a ferment, the dough will flatten out and 
look greasy and the yeast activity will be almost stopped. This eflect is 
c of produced even if the quantity of fat used is not excessive. 

Fat affecting The Only reasonable explanation that can be oflered is that 
Fermentation. ^^ some way the starch of the flour, with the sugary and 
proteid matter adhering, gets coated over with grease, which thus im- 
prisons, as it were, the materials on which the yeast works and lives. 
Effects of Nearly the same eflects are produced if yeast is immersed in 
Oil or Fat oil or melted fat before being used in a ferment or bun dough, 
on east. j^ ^j^-^ ^^^^ ^^^ yeast cells are evidently rendered impermeable 
to food from outside, whilst their enzymes are from the same cause pre- 
vented from coming out to perform their usual functions. 

Nearly the same limit — viz. 4 oz. per lb. of flour used — is the maximum 
in the case of sugar. If a larger proportion than this is mixed the buns 
Effects of ^^^^ ^*-*^ ferment, but run out flat. This may be the result of 
Excessive two distinct causes. The amount of sugar here stated— 4 oz. per 
^^^^- lb. of flour — would be equivalent to about a 40-per-cent solution 
if the quantity of liquid used is taken as the basis of measurement, and it 
is well known that a sugar solution of this density offers a very unsuitable 
medium for the growth of yeast. The other part explanation of the 
flattening of the buns may be that already referred to in connection with 
the effect of too much sugar in bread, that the gluten of the flour is 
softened, and its elasticity destroyed by an excessive quantity of sugar. 
General Basis As a basis for all bun calculations, it is safe to assume that 
for Buns. fQjr. every 1 lb. of flour used not more than 3| oz. of fat and 

Sh oz. of sugar can be used; and as a matter of fact these quantities, 
without any addition of eggs whatever, produce buns that keep soft and 
moist for a considerable time, and are otherwise satisfactory. 

Eggs are certainly useful in giving buns a rich colour and a fine 
Eggs not appearance when new, but they do not keep the buns moist 
Necessary, jj^ ^^g same way as the maximum quantity of yeast and sugar 
mentioned above does. 

One defect in flavour of ordinary buns made with sugar, lard, eggs, 
yeast, and flour is a certain insipidity or mawkishness that is hardly 
Flavour pleasant. This is not very noticeable in those containing much 
of Buns, fi-uit, but it is in plain sorts; and to improve the flavour it is 
rather a common practice to add essence of lemon. This is not harmful if 
used in moderation, but the rule is generally to use too much. If butter is 
used in buns, or even if the fat is lard or other tasteless sort, the addition 
of ^ oz. of salt at the dough stage, to each 4 lb. of flour 
used, removes the insipidity referred to, without in any way 
destroying the sweetness or seriously hindering the fermentation. 



FERMENTED BUNS 301 

For a common plain bun that pays to sell at about seven for Sd. the^ 
following mixture may be used. Make a ferment with 1 qt. milk and 
1 qt. water, the two together at 100'' F. Stir into this 4 oz. . 

sugar and dissolve 5 oz. yeast, then beat 1 lb. of flour well into 
it with a whisk. This ferment, kept in a warm place, will rise and drop in 
about thirty-five minutes. Make dough with 8 lb. flour, into which If lb. 
of lard or neutral fat has been rubbed, 1^ lb. sugar, and 1 oz. salt, and the 
ferment as above. Let the dough stand exactly one hour; then knead well 
and scale into pieces 3| lb. each to cut on the machine into thirty buns. 
These are rolled and placed on greased baking sheets, and proved in a steam 
cupboard for about twenty-five minutes. The buns may be glazed with 
e^g wash, consisting of one egg and enough water to fill half the shell, 
just before setting in the oven, in which case either a camel - hair or a 
paper brush must be used. They may be glazed while hot after baking 
with one of the following glazes: (1) The plain egg wash \kt u 

described above; (2) a glaze made with 1 egg, a gill of 
water, and 1 oz. sugar; (3) clear syrup made by boiling about 6 oz. sugar 
in ^ pt. water, in which | oz. gelatine has been previously soaked; (4) a 
clear strong syrup alone. Any of these will produce a good glaze, the last 
one being the least satisfactory, as, unless it is washed on immediately the 
buns come from the oven, they are liable to be sticky. This \at h 

mixture may be used for plain buns, or for small afternoon 
tea buns or fingers (see Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 2, 3, 9, 11), or for 
Sally Lunns, which are simply bun dough pinned out flat for Id. size, or 
baked in hoops for 2d. size. 

The following recipes are all well tried, and will produce buns of excel- 
lent quality, at the same time giving variety, which is so conducive to good 
business. The old familiar currant buns may be made as follows : — 

Currant Buns 

Ferment set with liquor Dough 

at 100° F. 4 lb. flour (English patent). 

1 pint milk. 6 oz. butter. 

1 pint water. \ lb. lard. 

3 oz. sugar. \ lb. sugar. 

8 oz. flour. 6 oz. currants. 

2\ oz. yeast. | oz. salt. 

Prepare the ferment by whisking together all the ingredients in a jam 
jar or other suitable vessel, and placing this in a warm cupboard for about 
forty minutes. Sift the flour, and then rub the butter and Making the 
lard into it. Make a bay, into which place the sugar; sprinkle Ferment, 
the currants over the flour. When the ferment is ready, stir it well, and 
ejnpty into the bay; make all up into a dough, using no liquid except 
that in the ferment. This dough must be perfectly smooth and free from 
scraps. Slightly warm a pan, and dust with flour; place the dough in this 
and cover over with a bag, and allow it to stand in a warm cupboard for 



302 CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

about forty minutes. It will then be found to be in full proof, when it 
must be turned out upon the board, well kneaded, and then allowed to 
prove for another thirty minutes. At the end of this time the dough will 
Making Dough be ready for dividing up. Weigh into 6-oz. pieces, halve 
and Proving. these and hand up lightly, and place about four in a row 
on warmed greased baking sheets. Allow to prove in a warm cupboard 
which contains only sufficient steam to prevent a skin forming on top of 
g . . the buns. Prove to about double their original size, and bake 

Temperature in a hot oven at 450° F., noting carefully, however, that they 
for Buns. ^^^.^ done sufficiently by trying them at the light-coloured 

parts at the sides (about eight minutes is sufficient time to bake them 
thoroughly). Bake to a rich colour. On removing the buns from the 
oven, wash over with bun wash made from ^ pt. milk, 2 eggs, and sufficient 
Prepared sugar to sweeten. A large quantity of sugar must not be 
Egg Wash, added, as this will make the buns sticky. Syrup may also be 
used as bun wash, if preferred. It is made by boiling together for a few 
Syrup for minutes 3J lb. lump sugar and 1 qt. water, and may be kept in 
Egg Wash, stock to use as required. Another method of washing them 
over is by breaking two eggs into a basin, stirring these well together with 
a wash brush, and washing over the buns before proof and again before 
baking. The latter operation must be done with a soft camel-hair brush, 
, , , or, failing that, with a piece of soft paper folded and cut 

Flipping when several times to represent a brush, and the washing must be 
in Proof. done very gently to prevent the proof being destroyed. The 

following is another method for currant buns: — 

Dough 
4^ lb. flour (English patent). 
Rich Penny Bun. 10 oz. butter. 

6 eggs. 
Ferment as given far \ lb. orange peel. 

first method. 6 oz. currants, 

f lb. sugar. 
^ oz. salt. 
Prepare the ferment and dough as for the previous mixture, scale at the 
same weight, wash over with egg before baking, and place a thin piece of 
orange peel on each: or they may be dusted over with castor sugar only 
instead of glazing. 

A third method for currant buns is as follows: — 

Dough 
4^ lb. flour (English patent). 
Royal Currant Bun. | lb. melted butter. 

10 oz. castor sugar. 
Ferment as described 4 eggs. 

for first method. 8 yolks. 

\ lb. lemon peel. 
6 oz. currants. 
J oz. salt. 



FERMENTED BUNS 303 

Prepare the ferment as for the other currant buns. For the dough sift 
the flour and make a bay, add the sugar and eggs with the ferment, and 
make all up into dough. Give this a good beating; carefully clarified 
work in the warmed clarified butter until the dough is smooth Butter 
and tough; then mix in the fruit. Store this dough away until *" ""®' 
ready for a little over an hour, then scale off at 2|-oz. pieces. Hand 
these up and place upon greased wnrmed baking sheets, and prove with 
little steam. Before baking, wash over with egg, and place some sugar 
nibs on the top of each. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 15, 17.) 

Mince Buns 

Prepare a dough as for currant buns (third recipe above), leaving out 
the fruit. Scale off in 2:^-oz. pieces, roll round, and then turn each piece 
over upon the board previously dusted with flour. Slightly 
flatten the dough with the hand and place a piece of Banbury 
meat in the centre of each piece, and fold over as for dough nuts. Keep 
them perfectly round, place upon greased baking sheets, and prove with 
little steam. When half proved, take a sharp knife and make five or six 
cuts around the border of each bun. Finish proving, bake in hot oven, and 
wash over with bun wash; before this dries, dust some granulated sugar 
over the top of the buns. 

Lemon Tea Buns 

Prepare these buns by following the same method as for the mince 
buns, but flavour the dough with essence of lemon, and add a small tea- 
spoonful of lemon curd to each in place of the Banbury meat. Lemon Tea 
The shape of these buns may be varied by rolling them long Buns, 
with a point at each end and about 1^ inch wide. When half proved, one 
cut is made in the centre of the top of each lengthways. Lemon-shaped 
They are as before washed over with egg, and again with Buns, 
bun wash when baked, and some granulated sugar is spread over their tops. 
These buns are sold at a penny each. 

Swiss Buns 

Dough 
A\ lb. flour (English patent), 
f lb. lard. 
Ferment as for huns J lb. sugar. 

already given. Essence of lemon. 

Egg colour. 
A little powdered cinnamon. 

Prepare the dough with ferment as used for the other buns, only add a 
little colour to give the appearance of eggs. Scale in 5^-oz. pieces, halve 
these, and roll round in the usual way; then cover with a warm cloth for 
five minutes. Prepare some wanned greased baking sheets, roll each piece 



304 CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

of dough out pear-shape about 3 in. in length, and place these on the 
baking sheets in groups of six or seven as required, arranged in a circle 
(see Plate, Fermented Buns, No. 16), so that the points of the pieces come 
together in the centre. Wash over with egg or milk, slightly dust with 
castor sugar, prove with little steam in a warm cupboard, and bake in a 
hot oven. Upon taking these from the oven splash them over with bun 
wash. 

Another method of making these buns is to roll them out to a length of 
4 in. all the same thickness, and place them about | in. apart upon greased 
Water Icing baking sheets. When baked and almost cold, brush over the 
for Buns. ^ops some warm- water icing, prepared by mixing fine pulverized 
or icing sugar with warm water into a stiff paste. This sugar paste runs 
smooth when spread on buns. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 1 and 4.) 

Bath Buns 

It frequently happens that buns of some sort are wanted at very short 
notice, and Bath buns are not infrequently specified. The following mix- 
Cheap Bath or ture is one that produces a bun that keeps soft and moist 
London Buns. fQj. ^ good time, and is very suitable for shop trade where 
customers will not readily pay more than a penny and yet expect a large 
bun for this money. Mix well 8 lb. rather soft flour, 2 oz. bicarbonate of 
soda, and 4 oz. cream of tartar. Into this flour rub 1| lb. lard or other 
neutral fat. Make a bay and weigh into it 1|^ lb. sugar, 1 lb. cake crumbs, 
and 8 eggs. Place round the outside of the flour 1| lb. orange peel, cut 
fine, and 1^ lb. sultanas. Make all into a dough with 2 quarts butter- 
milk. Should there be any fermented dough left from a previous bun- 
mixing, it may be broken down amongst the milk and mixed with the 
other ingredients in the dough; such addition is a decided improvement in 
keeping the buns longer soft, although they keep moist without it. There 
is, however, an advantage in being able to use up bun dough in this M^ay, if 
less had been needed for the ordinary fermented goods than the usual 
mixture produced. After the dough is made it can be immediately dropped on 
the tins. The dough is somewhat soft, and the buns in consequence are not 
weighed and rolled in the usual way, but pieces are cut off" by the fingers 
the size of each bun and dropped on the greased baking sheet in such a way 
as to give them a rough appearance. The buns are then washed over with 
a strong egg glaze, and some sugar nibs are placed on the centre of each. 
If the dough contains any fermented dough, it is better to let the buns 
stand for ten minutes before baking; but otherwise they may be baked off' 
at once in a rather hot oven, say about 460° F. This quantity of dough 
should produce about 8 dozen buns at one penny each. 

For penny Bath buns of the ordinary kind the following may be used. 
Fermented Take about 6 lb. of dough as prepared for currant buns (first 
Bath Buns, recipe), and when half proved, work into it 1 lb. sultanas, | lb. 
currants, 4 oz. orange peel, a few eggs, or yolks and eggs mixed together, 



^1 



T. 



> 



Hi 

i 



FERMENTED BUNS 




I, 4, Iced Buns or Queen's Rolls. 2, 3, Small Tea Buns. 5, 6, 7, 10, Crullers or American Dough Nuts. 

8, 12, Berlin Pancakes or Dough Nuts. 9, 11, Tea Fingers. 13, 14, Chelsea Buns. 15, 17, Currant 

Buns. 16, Swiss Bun. 18, 21, Raspberry Buns. 19, 20, Snowballs. 22, 23, 24, 25, Bath Buns. 




FhKMBNlhD BUiNS 



Ferment as already given. 



FERMENTED BUNS 305 

and tighten the dough up with scone flour. Allow to lie for 30 minutes, 
break off in pieces about 2.^ oz. each, and shape up upon baking sheets 
about four in a row. Wash over with egg, place some sugar nibs on top, 
prove slightly, and bake in a sharp oven. When they are baked splash 
them over with bun wash. 

In opood neighbourhoods and in high-class restaurants a much richer 
bun is required. The following may be UvSed for buns to sell at 2d. each: — 

Dough 
4 lb. flour (English patent). 
1^ lb. butter. Rich Restau- 

I lb. sugar nibs. f^"* ^""• 

6 oz. sultanas. 
\ lb. mixed peel. 
6 eggs. 
12 yolks. 
A pinch of yeast. 

Sift the flour on to the board, rub the butter into it, make a bay, and 
place in the centre the eggs and yolks, together with the usual ferment. 
Make up a medium stiff" dough. Allow this to lie for one hour in a warm 
cupboard, then return it to the board and chop in the sugar nibs and mixed 
fruit with a scraper. Place all back again in the cupboard to rest for 
twenty minutes; turn it out again upon the board; break off" pieces about 
3 oz. each and place upon greased baking sheets. Wash the tops with egg, 
sprinkle on some sugar nibs, and prove for a short time in a warm dry 
cupboard, bake in hot oven, and splash with bun wash. 

Another method of making these buns is to add part of the eggs to 
the ferment, make the dough up without fruit, add castor Method of Mixing 
sugar instead of lump, hand them up round and wash ^^*^ Buns, 
with egg wash thin, then sprinkle some castor sugar over before baking. 
This is the form of bun that finds favour in the city of Bath now. 

The necessity for mixing the sugar nibs and fruit after bun dough is 
half proved may not be very apparent, but it is done because it is important 
that the sugar nibs should remain as nibs, and not be dissolved as long as 
fermentation is proceeding; otherwise so much sugar prevents the yeast 
from working altogether. 

A richer Bath bun than the above, and one that gives satisfaction, is 
made as follows. 1 quart of milk and 1 quart of water is heated up to 
104° F., and 4 oz. sugar and 7 oz. yeast dissolved in it; then 1 lb. imperial 
moderately strong flour is thoroughly mixed and well aerated ^^^^ ^""• 
by stirring with a whisk. This ferment should rise well in the jar and 
drop in about 25 minutes. Dough is made with 9 lb. English-milled patent 
flour, into which has been loosely rubbed If lb. sweet butter, all the fer- 
ment, 1 dozen eggs, and a few drops essence of lemon. The dough is 
allowed to stand covered up in a warm place for one hour, then 4 lb. sugar 
nibs, 1| lb. orange peel chopped very fine, and lit lb. sultanas are w^orked 

Vol. I, 39 



306 CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

into the dough. It is then ready for dividing into buns and placing on 
baking sheets. As this dough is moderately firm, it is not so suitable 
for breaking out in pieces with the fingers, but it can be conveniently 
weighed in large pieces, say 5 lb., then cut out in 30 pieces in a machine, if 
such is available. If not, each pair of buns will be 5| oz. Each piece 
is then torn into smaller pieces on the baking sheet to give it a rock-like 
appearance. The buns are given about 15 minutes proof, and are then 
Cause of Bath glazed with a strong wash consisting of yolks and a little 
Buns Hardening, water well mixed, so that the grain or fibre of the former 
is thoroughly broken. They are baked in a warm oven, and care must be 
taken that they are not overbaked, as there is a danger with such a large 
quantity of sugar in them that this sugar will run out at the bottoms of the 
buns and produce a black hard crust of a bitter taste. When this happens 
the buns become very hard when stale, but if only sufficiently baked in an 
oven not overheated at the sole, they keep soft and moist, and are alto- 
gether satisfactory. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 22, 23, 24, 25.) 

Jam Buns 

To obtain variety in buns, jams of various sorts may be used as centres 
in the following manner. Make a ferment in the usual way with 1 qt. half 
milk and half water at 100° F., 8 oz. flour, 2 oz, sugar, and 2^ oz. yeast. 
When this drops make dough with 

4^ lb. flour (English patent). 
Jam Buns. 10 oz. butter 

1 lb. sugar. 
4 yolks. 

2 eggs. 

Prepare the dough as for currant buns. When proved sufficiently, scale off 
at 4 oz.; halve these pieces, hand up, and place them about 1 in. apart on 
greased baking sheets. Press each slightly with the hand, and place to 
prove in a warm, dry cupboard, free from draughts. When half proved. 
Blocks place upon the top of each a thick biscuit, made with flour and 
for Buns, water, about 1 in. in diameter, and kept for use day after day; or a 
piece of cork may be used, and will answer the same purpose. Slightly press 
these on to the dough, dust the border of each bun with castor sugar, and 
finish proving with some steam. Bake in a sharp oven, remove the pieces of 
biscuit, wash the buns over with bun glaze, and when cold fill in the centre 
of each with some greengage jam. It will be necessary to grease slightly 
the pieces of biscuit or cork which may be used, so that these may be 
removed without breaking the buns. These buns should be square in 
Baking shape, and baked to a light golden colour. Before proving in 

Jam Buns, the warm cupboard, the sides of each bun should be touched 
lightly with the butter brush, so that they may be separated with smooth 
sides. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 18, 21.) 



FERMENTED BUNS 



307 



Hot Cross Buns 

A very satisfactoiy hot cross bun for Good Friday trade is made as 
follows. Make a ferment as already described with 14 oz. 
yeast, 1 lb. sugar, 3 lb. flour, 2 qt. milk and special 
4 qt. water at 104° F. When this is dropped. Hot Cross 
make dough with 25 lb. flour, 4 lb. sugar, 4| lb. ""^' 
lard, 16 eggs, 3 lb. currants, and h oz. essence of mixed 
spice and 1^ oz. salt. The buns are 
cut out and rolled in the usual way, 
and allowed to prove for some time 
dry before being docked with a cross 
(figs. 25 and 26). They are then 
glazed with egg wash and proving is 
finished in steam if possible. The 
buns look creamy-yellow in crumb, 
and are much better without any egg 
colour. 





Fig. 25.— Hot Cross 
Bun Docker (vertical) 



Fig. 26.— Hot Cross Bun 
Docker (end view) 



Chelsea Buns 

A popular bun in English confectioners' shops — but, it must be con- 
fessed, not so popular as it was at one time — is that known as the Chelsea 
Bun. This is more difficult to make nicely than the ordinary bun, but if 
good materials are used, and care taken, it is very nice to eat. A ferment 
is made as for ordinary buns, then the dough consists of — 

4| lb. flour (English patent). 

f lb. butter. Chelsea Buns. 

^ lb. sugar. 

4 eggs. 

8 yolks. 

^ lb. currants. 

Sift the flour and rub in | lb. of the butter; make a bay, place in it half of 
the sugar, add the eggs, and then with the ferment, when ready, make all 
up into a smooth dough. Allow the dough to lie until fully proved, then 
divide it in two pieces and pin each out to an oblong shape about 18 in. 
long, 12 in. wide, and | in. thick. Take the remainder of the Method 
butter, which should be quite soft, and brush half of this over of adding 
each piece of the dough; sprinkle on the sugar and the currants, ""^r, c. 
dividing these between the two pieces of dough, and spread them over 
the butter. Fold the dough over as when turning puff* paste; pin it out 
again, finishing at about the same thickness and width; brush over the 
remainder of the butter, wet the edges with egg wash, and carefully roll up 
as for Swiss roll. The rolling up must be carefully done, or else a few 
badly-shaped buns will be the result; brush some clarified butter or lard 
over the dough, and cut it up into pieces scaling at 2| oz. each, about ^ in. 



308 . CONFECTIONERY GOODS 

thick; lay upon greased baking sheets, cut edge down, within | in. of 
each other, and prove in a warm cupboard with very little steam. When 
sufficiently proved, and the pieces of dough are touching, wash over with 

milk, slightly dust with castor sugar, and bake in a hot oven. 

When baked, and while quite hot, dust over with fine pul- 
verized or icing sugar. As these buns are baked close together, care must 
be taken that they are thoroughly done. This is best seen by separating 
some of the outside ones and noting the condition of the sides of some of 
the buns in the centre of the baking sheet. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, 
Nos. 18, 14.) 

Dough Nuts 

Dough nuts belong to the bun class, but are boiled, or rather roasted in 
fat, instead of being baked. We speak of fat boiling, but it does not boil; 
^ , «, the ebullition noticed when it is heated only lasts as lonp- as 

Dough Nuts. .^ . i -n 1 1 , 

it contams any water. J^or dough nuts, then, prepare some 
plain bun dough as already described, and when ready, scale off at 5 oz. per 
pair and hand up. Turn the pieces of dough over upon the board, slightly 
flatten with the hand, place some raspberry jam in the centre, and fold 
each carefully to enclose the jam. Prove these upon a bag or cloth placed 
upon a baking sheet in a warm cupboard without steam. When ready, fry 
them to a light colour in some hot lard, then drain them on a wire tray. 
Ring Roll in some castor sugar. Dough rings may be made from the 

Dough Nuts, same dough, handed up, pinned out, and the centre of each cut 
out with a small plain cutter before proving. Care is necessary when pre- 
paring the lard for frying to ascertain when it is hot enough. To this 
Test for Heat ^nd throw a few drops of cold water on the hot fat; if ready 
of Fat. for frying — that is, if it is hot enough — it will give off a 

crackling noise; if not hot enough, this noise will not be produced, and 
the pieces of dough must not be placed in it. On no account wait until 
smoke is seen to arise from the fat, as this will indicate that 
it is beginning to burn, which will not only give the dough 
nuts a bad colour, but will prevent them growing while cooking to their 
full size; then the fat will be useless for frying a second time on account of 
the bad colour. 

The ring form of dough nut mentioned above is in imitation of the 
American cruller, but this cake is usually made from a dough aerated 
American by soda and cream of tartar. The following mixture produces an 
Crullers. excellent cruller. Into 4 lb. of soft flour sift thoroughly 1 oz. of 
bicarbonate of soda and 2 oz. cream of tartar. Rub into this 8 oz. sweet 
butter or lard and make a bay, into which weigh 8 oz. castor sugar. Make 
a firm but smooth dough with 4 eggs and 1 pint milk. Allow this to 
lie for a little to lose its toughness, then pin out half at a time into a sheet 
about h in. thick and cut out with a ring cutter, or, alternatively, cut the 
outer circumference with a plain cutter about 3 in. in diameter, and then 
with a 1-in. cutter cut out the centres of the larger pieces. 



THE 
QRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

34 AND 35 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, LONDON, W.C. 
J^ J& J^ J^ 

The Horse 

ITS TREATMENT IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, with a Complete Guide to 
Breeding, Training, and Management. Edited by Professor J. Wortley Axe, 
M.R.C.V.S., ex- President of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons; late Lecturer at the 
Royal Veterinary College, and at the Agricultural Colleges of Downton and Wye; Chief 
Veterinary Inspector to the Surrey County Council ; Consulting Veterinary Surgeon to the 
British Dairy Farmers' Association; author of "The Mare and Foal", "Abortion in Cattle", 
"Anthrax in Farm Stock", "Examination of Horses as to Soundness", "Glanders, its 
Spread and Suppression", "Swine Fever", "Lithotomy, or the Removal of Stone from the 
Bladder of the Horse". Complete in 9 handsomely-bound divisional- volumes. 

The work is divided into over twenty main sections, including Exterior of the Horse, Conformation 
and its Defects, Varieties of the Horse, Principles of Breeding and Management of the Breeding Stud, 
Horse Training for the Course, the Hunt, and the Show; Stable Management and Stable Vices; Exa- 
mination as to Soundness, &c. Each section is virtually a book in itself, dealing exhaustively with 
every phase of its subject, the information in each case being brought down to the month of publication. 

To the owner or responsible custodian of any horse or pony it is absolutely indispensable. 

The New Popular Encyclopedia 

A LIBRARY IN ITSELF. A General Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, Literature, Biography, 
History, The Practical Arts and Handicrafts, Law, Medicine, Household Matters, Education, 
Music, Games, and Sports. Edited by Charles Annandale, m.a., ll.d.. Editor of 
Ogilvie's " Imperial Dictionary of the English Language". Profusely illustrated. Complete 
in 14 handsome volumes, super- royal octavo, bound in cloth. 

Special attention has been paid to questions that have recently arisen and come under public notice, 
and the latest inventions and discoveries, whether in the fields of science, the arts, or travel, have suitable 
articles devoted to them. In carrying out the work of revision the most recent publications, British and 
foreign, have been consulted; the latest statistics of population, trade, &c., have been sought for; and 
all the most reliable sources of information have been drawn upon. 

Ogilvie's Imperial Dictionary 

OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Ne7u Edition, revised and greatly augmented. 
A Complete Encyclopedic Lexicon, Literary, Etymological, Scientific, Technological, and 
Pronouncing. Edited by Charles Annandale, m.a., ll.d. Illustrated by above 3000 
engravings on wood, besides a splendid series of full -page plates, many of which are 
coloured. Issued in 8 divisional-volumes of a handy size for reference, bound in cloth, 
with a fine design on side; also in 4 volumes, Roxburghe library style. 

The reception accorded by the press and the public to this new edition of the Imperial Dictionary 
shows that it will continue fully to maintain its established position as a standard lexicon of the English 
language. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 

1 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 



Practical Coalmining 

By Leading Experts in Mining and Engineering under the Editorship of W. S. Boulton, 
B.SC., F.G.S., Associate of the Royal College of Science, Member of the South Wales Institute 
of Engineers, Professor of Geology at University College, Cardiff. To be issued in 6 super- 
royal octavo divisional-volumes, bound in cloth. 

This book is virtually an encyclopedia of coal-mining. The geology of the coal-measures, the 
composition and analysis of coal, trial borings and shaft-sinking, blasting, coal-cutting, methods of 
working, timbering, haulage, winding, pumping, ventilation, transmission of power, mine-surveying, 
lighting, explosions, mineral leases, preparation of coal for market, the economics of coal, and relief and 
exploratory work in case of accidents — such is the wide range of its subject-matter. 

Practical Coal-mining is thus a practical work for all concerned in coal-mining. 

The book is profusely illustrated with diagrams. Machinery, structures, implements, details of all 
kinds are carefully pictured. There are also some excellent coloured drawings and black-and-white 
plates of interesting scenes and details connected with coal and coal-working in some of its phases. The 
slates include maps of the great British coal-fields. 



The Gardener's Assistant 

A Practical and Scientific Exposition of the Art of Gardening in all its Branches. By 
Robert Thompson, of the Royal Horticultural Society's Gardens, Chiswick, &c. New 
Edition, revised and entirely remodelled under the general Editorship of William Watson, 
F.R.H.S., Curator, Royal Gardens, Kew, with contributions by many eminent specialists. 
With many illustrations in colour and black-and-white. In 6 divisional-volumes, imperial 
octavo, bound in cloth ; also in 2 handsome volumes, Roxburghe library binding. 

As the book covers the whole subject, from the laying out of the ground to the packing of flowers, 
fruits, and vegetables for market, it should be indispensable to gardeners. To country gentlemen it will 
be of the greatest value in giving them an all-round view of both the principles and the practice of 
modem gardening. For all who cultivate flowers, whether in gardens, under glass, or in window- 
boxes, the book will be invaluable. The subject of Floral Decoration, too, receives particular attention. 

Everything has been done that could be done to elucidate the text by the free use of illustrations. 
These represent recent gardening appHances, houses, heating apparatus, flowers, trees, &c. 



The Household Physician 

A Family Guide to the Preservation of Health and the Domestic Treatment of Illness. 
By J. M'Gregor-Robertson, m..^., m.b., cm. (Honours), f.f.p.s.G., f.r.s. (Ed.), formerly 
Lecturer on Physiology in the University of Glasgow. New Edition, igoy. The work is 
issued alternatively in 4 half-volumes, cloth, or in 2 volumes, Roxburghe library binding. 

The aim of The Household Physician is to supply, in as plain language as possible, some know- 
ledge of what Science has to say as to the body which we inhabit, and also to give reliable assistance in 
the domestic treatment of simple ailments. It deals with health, human anatomy, and physiology, 
and then examines the main ailments, their nature and treatment. Much space is given to the subject 
of children's ailments, and to the care of children both in health and disease. Other subjects dealt 
with are general hygiene — embracing foods and feeding, clothing, exercise, climate, health resorts, house 
sanitation— medicines and drugs, first aid, minor surgery, treatment of accidents, sick nursing, 
invalid cookery, and, indeed, all the details that appertain to the care of the sick and the duties of 
the nurse. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 



The World of To=Day 

A Survey of the Lands and Peoples of the Globe as seen in Travel and Commerce. By 
A. R. Hope Moncrieff. Complete in 6 imperial octavo volumes. 

This is a new work which, within comparatively narrow compass, presents a comprehensive survey 
of all the countries of the world. 

Every volume contains much material of the greatest interest at the present time. Thus, in the first 
volume, which deals with Asia, the reader will learn much about China ; of the strange Tibetans, with 
their mechanical religion and their repugnance to foreigners ; of the vast empire which Russia has built 
up in central and northern Asia; of the "hermit kingdom" of Korea; of Manchuria; of the vast 
Indian Empire, with its great variety of races, languages, and religions ; and of Japan, which has suc- 
cessfully claimed a place among the Great Powers. 

There are numerous illustrations in half-tone and four beautiful coloured plates in each volume. 
Each volume also contains a series of carefully-prepared maps in the text, besides large coloured maps. 

By means of a full, well-arranged index the work will be found to supply in large measure the pur- 
poses of a gazetteer. In fact it is at once a description of the world, a dictionary of commerce, an 
atlas, and a gazetteer. 

The British Empire 

An Account of its Origin, Progress, and Present Position. With full descriptions of Canada, 
Australia, South Africa, India, and other Colonies and Dependencies. By Edgar SANDER- 
SON, M.A. (Cantab.), Author of " History of the British Empire", "Outlines of the World's 
History", &c., &c. Beautifully illustrated throughout with full-page drawings by the most 
eminent artists. New Edition. Greatly enlarged, and brought down to the reign of King 
Edward VI I. In 6 volumes, cloth elegant, olivine edges. 

The reader will find a full account of every colony, possession, and dependency where flies the 
Union Jack. The wonderful tale of our progress in the United Kingdom receives full justice and is not 
less interesting, embracing as it does the civil and military history of our country, the reform legislation, 
the foreign policy of Britain, and the chequered history of Ireland. While the narrative deals, for the 
most part, with the nineteenth century, a thoroughly interesting account of Great Britain in the 
eighteenth century is also presented. 

The riodern Plumber and 
Sanitary Engineer 

Treating of Plumbing, Sanitary Work, Ventilation, Heating (Electric and Other), Hot- 
Water Services, Gas-Fitting, Electric Lighting, Bell-Work, Glazing, &c. By sixteen 
specialist contributors under the Editorship of G. Lister Sutcliffe, a.r.i.b.a., m.r.s.i.. 
Editor of " The Principles and Practice of Modern House Construction ", &c. With 
Appendices of Tables, Memoranda, Mensuration, &c. To be completed in 6 super-royal 
octavo volumes, bound in cloth. 

This is a work for the master plumber, the operative plumber, the plumber-electrician, and, in 
fact, for all who are in any way practically concerned in plumbing, sanitary engineering, or any of the 
associated trades ; for all who have to do with the building, sanitation, ventilation, lighting, and heating 
of houses and other edifices. 

The illustrations are a special feature. They include diagrams, half-tone pictures, full-page and 
folding plates, many of the last in colour. There are upwards of 40 plates and iioo illustrations in 
the text. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



4 THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

The Practical Grocer 

A Manual and Guide for the Grocer, the Provision Merchant, and Allied Trades. By 
W. H. SiMMONDS. With contributions by specialists, trade experts, and members of the 
trades. Illustrated by a series of separately printed plates. Complete in 4 volumes, cloth. 
Grocery says : " That most excellent manual ... a most useful work ". 

riodern Electric Practice 

Prepared under the Editorship of Magnus Maclean, m.a., d.sc. Professor of Electrical 
Engineering in the Glasgow and West of Scotland Technical College, assisted by over thirty 
specialists. Copiously illustrated. Complete in 6 volumes, super-royal octavo, cloth. 
A new and thoroughly up-to-date practical work written by practical men for practical men. 

Modern House=Construction 

Including Water-supply and Fittings, Sanitary Fittings and Plumbing, Drainage and Sewage- 
disposal, Warming, Ventilation, Lighting, Sanitary Aspects of Furniture and Decoration, 
Climate and Situation, Stables, Sanitary Law, &c. Edited by G. LiSTER SUTCLIFFE, 
Architect, Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects, Member of the Sanitary 
Institute. Author of "Concrete: Its Nature and Uses", &c. The Work is printed on 
fine paper, demy quarto, and issued in Six Divisions, strongly bound in cloth ; also in two 
volumes, Roxburghe binding. 

Modern House-Construction is accurate, thorough, and up-to-date, and therefore invaluable to 
professional men engaged in house-construction or house-inspection, including Architects, Civil Engineers 
Sanitary Engineers, Doctors, Medical Officers, Sanitary Inspectors, Building Inspectors, &c. 

The Modern Carpenter, Joiner, 
and Cabinetmaker 

A Complete Guide to Current Practice. Prepared under the editorship of G. LISTER 
SUTCLIFFE, Architect, Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects, Member of 
the Sanitary Institute, Editor and Joint-Author of " Modern House-Construction ", Author 
of "Concrete: Its Nature and Uses", &c. With Contributions from many Specialists. 
Illustrated by a Series of about a hundred separately-printed Plates and a thousand Figures 
in the Text. Complete in 8 divisional-volumes, super-royal quarto, bound in cloth. 

The Modern Carpenter comprises no fewer than sixteen sections. Within the eight divisional- 
volumes of the work we have a treatise on every branch of the craft, distinguished by four outstanding 
qualities. It is (i) complete, (2) clear, (3) practical, and (4) up-to-date. 

The Book of the Home 

An Encyclopedia of all Matters Relating to the House and Household Management. 
Produced under the general Editorship of H. C. Davidson, assisted by over one hundred 
specialists. Copiously illustrated by coloured and black-and-white plates and engravings in 
the text. In 4 volumes, cloth, with artistic design ; also in 8 divisional-volumes, cloth. 
An indispensable ally to the novice and a valuable work of reference to the more experienced. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 5 

Works of Shakespeare 

Edited by Sir Henry Irving and Frank A. Marshall, with a general Introduction and 

Life of Shakespeare, by Prof. Edward Dowden, and many hundred illustrations from 

drawings by Gordon Browne and other artists. In 14 volumes beautifully bound in cloth. 

The ideal edition of Shakespeare, embodying the result of everything of value done before in the text 

and illustration of our great poet. 

The Qresham Library of 
Standard Fiction 

A Series of 21 Standard Works of Fiction by the most eminent authors, each volume illus- 
trated with six full-page drawings, many containing a biographical sketch of the author and 
a critical estimate of his work. The set of 21 volumes bound in leather back are : Barchester 
Towers, Scenes of Clerical Life, Hajji Baba, After Dark, Ormond, Jane Eyre, The New- 
comes, Westward Ho!, The Caxtons, David Copperfield, The Heart of Midlothian, Pride 
and Prejudice, Harry Lorrequer, The Scarlet Letter and The House with the Seven Gables, 
Lavengro, Cranford and Mary Barton, Framley Parsonage, Tom Burke of "Ours", The 
Mill on the Floss, John Halifax, Gentleman, Coningsby. 

Charles Dickens' Novels 

The Imperial Edition of the Novels of Charles Dickens, in 16 volumes, large square octavo, 
cloth extra, gilt top. The following is a list of the volumes in the Imperial Edition : The 
Pickwick Papers, Oliver Twist, Nicholas Nickleby, Martin Chuzzlewit, The Old Curiosity 
Shop, Barnaby Rudge, David Copperfield, Bleak House, Sketches by Boz, Christmas Books, 
Dombey and Son, Little Dorrit, A Tale of Two Cities, Great Expectations, Hard Times and 
Master Humphrey's Clock; Charles Dickens: A Critical Study, by GEORGE GiSSlNG. 

The Choice Library of the 
English Poets 

With Introductions by Alice Meynell, Arthur Symons, Owen Seaman, Alfred Austin, 
and other eminent writers. Beautifully bound in cloth, with frontispiece photogravures, 
24 volumes, in neat box. The volumes are as follows : — Tennyson, Christina Rossetti, 
Milton, Wordsworth, E. B. Browning, Robert Browning, Byron, Shelley, Keats, Burns, 
Coleridge, Cowper, Calverley, Herrick, Longfellow, Whittier, In Memoriam {Tennyson's), 
Arnold, Keble ( The Christian Year), Keble ( The Psalter in English Verse), Herbert, Six- 
teenth Century Anthology, Seventeenth Century Anthology, Eighteenth Century Anthology. 

The Warwick Library of English 
Literature 

Prepared under the general Editorship of C. H. Herford, Litt.D., Professor of English 
Literature in the Victoria University of Manchester. In 8 uniform volumes. The volumes 
are as follows: — English Lyrics, English Pastorals, English Masques, English Tales in 
Verse, EngHsh Satires, English Literary Criticism, English Essays, English Historians. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



6 THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

The Brontes' Works 

The Complete Works of Charlotte Bronte and her Sisters. With many illustrations and 
portraits. This series includes Jane Eyre, Villette, Shirley, The Professor, and Emma, by 
Charlotte Bronte ; Wtithering Heights, by Emily Bronte ; and Agnes Grey, and The Tenant 
of Wildfell Hall, by Anne Bronte ; also the Poems of the three sisters, and Mrs. Gaskell's 
Life of Charlotte Bronte. Complete in 7 volumes, limp lambskin. 

Casquet of Literature 

A Selection in Prose and Poetry from the best authors. Edited, with biographical and 
literary notes, by Charles Gibbon, author of "Robin Gray", and Miss MARY CHRISTIE. 
In 6 volumes, handsomely bound in cloth. 

The Cabinet of Irish Literature 

Selections from the Works of the chief Poets, Orators, and Prose Writers of Ireland. Edited 
by Charles A. Reade, f.r.h.s., and Katharine Tynan Hinkson. In 4 volumes,, 
super-royal octavo, cloth extra, gilt edges. 

In the Land of Burns 

Select Illustrations of the Life and Writings of the Scottish Poet from Paintings by D. O. 
Hill, r.s.a. 24 Engravings, carefully printed on fine paper, imperial 4to (size 15x11 inches), 
accompanied by Descriptive Notes, indicating their association with the life and works of the 
poet. Issued in an artistic portfolio. 

A Popular Family Commentary 

ON THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Rev. ALBERf Barnes, author of "The Life of the 
Apostle Paul", "The Way of Salvation", "The Evidences of Christianity in the Nineteenth 
Century", " Notes" on the Book of Job, on the Psalms, and on the Prophecies of Isaiah and 
Daniel. With 70 finely-engraved illustrations, and a valuable series of maps and plans. 
Complete in 1 1 beautifully-bound volumes in handsome case. 

Encyclopaedia Biblica 

A Dictionary of the Bible. Edited by the Rev. T. K. Cheyne, m.a., d.d.. Oriel Professor 
of the Interpretation of Holy Scripture at Oxford, and formerly Fellow of Balliol College, 
Canon of Rochester ; and J. SUTHERLAND BLACK, M.A., LL.D., formerly assistant Editor of 
" The Encyclopaedia Britannica ". Assisted by many contributors in Great Britain, Europe,, 
and America. Complete in 4 volumes, cloth and half-leather. 

The Qresham Dictionary 

The Gresham Dictionary of the English Language, founded on the great works of NOAH 
Webster, ll.d., and John Ogilvie, ll.d. With 1200 illustrations. In i volume, super- 
royal octavo cloth. Also supplied in Roxburghe binding (library style). 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 7 

The Modern Cyclopedia 

OF UNIVERSAL INFORMATION. Edited by Charles Annandale, m.a., ll.d., 
Editor of " Ogilvie's Imperial Dictionary", &c. New Edition, 1907. With many pictorial 
illustrations and a series of maps and plates. Complete in 8 volumes, square octavo, bound 
in rich cloth, coloured edges, or in fine leather binding (library style). 

The Natural History of Plants 

Their Forms, Growth^ Reproduction, and Distribution. From the German of the Late 
Anton Kerner Von Marilaun, Professor of Botany in the University of Vienna. By F. 
W. Oliver, m.a., d.Sc, Quain Professor of Botany in University College, London, with 
the assistance of Lady Busk, b.Sc., and Mrs, M. F. Macdonald, b.Sc. With about 2000 
■original woodcut illustrations. Complete in 2 handsome volumes. 

The Natural History of Animals 

The Animal Life of the World in its various Aspects and Relations. By J. R. AiNSWORTH 
Davis, m.a., of Trinity College, Cambridge, and of University College, Aberystwyth. Pro- 
fusely illustrated with full-page colour and black-and-white plates, and engravings in the text 
by eminent animal artists. Complete in 8 half-volumes or in 4 volumes, cloth extra. 

Comprehensive History of England 

Civil and Military, Religious, Intellectual, and Social. From the Earliest Period to the 
Present Time. Illustrated by above 11 00 engravings in the text, 65 finely engraved plates, 
and many excellent separate page engravings, including portraits of sovereigns, pictures of 
important historical events, &c. Complete in 4 volumes, super-royal octavo, cloth. 

A History of the Scottish People 

From the Earliest to the Latest Times. By Rev. Thomas Thomson and Charles 
Annandale, m.a., ll.d. Illustrated by W. H. Margetson, Walter Paget, Gordon 
Browne, and other eminent artists. In 6 divisional-volumes, cloth elegant. 

Gladstone and his Contemporaries 

Seventy Years of Social and Political Progress. By Thomas Archer, f.r.h.s. Revised 
and extended to date by Alfred Thomas Story, author of "Life of John Linnell", "The 
Building of the Empire", &c. Illustrated. In 4 volumes, super-royal octavo, cloth. 

Queen Victoria 

HER LIFE AND REIGN. By Thomas Archer, f.r.h.s., author of "Sixty Years of 
Social and Political Progress", &c., and Amelia Hutchison Stirling, m.a., Examiner 
in History in the University of St. Andrews, author of "Torch-Bearers of History", &c. 
With many highly-finished illustrations. In 4 volumes, cloth extra. 

Mr. Chamberlain 

His Life and Public Career. By S. H. Jeves. Profusely illustrated with portraits, views, 
and illustrations of notable events. Complete in 2 volumes, cloth, gilt top. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



8 THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

The Home Teacher 

A Cyclopedia of Self-Instruction. Edited by Samuel Neil, author of " Culture and Self- 
Culture ", " Art of Reasoning "; Editor of " The Cyclopedia of History ", &c., &c. Copiously 
illustrated with full-page plates and engravings in the text. In 5 volumes, cloth. 

Modern Practical Farriery 

A Complete Guide to all that Relates to the Horse. Its History, Varieties, and Uses — 
Breaking, Training, Feeding, Stabling, and Grooming — How to Buy, Keep, and Treat a 
Horse in Health and Disease, &c., &c., forming a complete system of the Veterinary 
Art as at present practised at the Royal Veterinary College, London. By W. J. Miles, 
M.R.C.V.S.L. Including Practical Treatises on " Cattle : their Management in Dairy, Field, 
and Stall ", by John Walker ; " Pasture-Grasses and Forage Plants ", by Samuel P. 
Preston; "The Practice of Sheep Farming", by Charles Scott ; "The Diseases and 
Treatment of Cattle, Sheep, and Pigs ", by J. I. LuPTON, M.R.C.v.s.L. In i volume, bound 
in cloth, or in half-calf. 

The Modern Practical Farriery has long been accepted as the standard work on its subject. 

Agriculturist's Calculator 

A Series of 46 Tables for Land Measuring, Draining, Manuring, Planting, Weight of Hay 
and Cattle by Measurement, Building, &c., forming a complete ready-reckoner for all 
engaged in agriculture. Sixteenth thousand. Bound. 



Engineers' flanual 



Of Rules, Tables, and Data, based on the most recent investigations. By Daniel Kinnear 
Clark, author of " Railway Machinery", &c. With many diagrams. Fifth edition. Large 
octavo (1000 pp.), cloth, or half-morocco. 

Peddie's Practical fleasurer 

Or, TRADESMEN'S AND WOOD MERCHANTS' ASSISTANT. Tables for the use 
of Wood Merchants, Builders, Carpenters, &c. With a Treatise on the Mensuration of 
Superficies and Solids. Illustrated with diagrams and examples. Foolscap octavo, bound. 

The Practical Decorator 

AND ORNAMENTIST. For the use of Architects, Painters, Decorators, and Designers. 
Containing 100 plates in colours and gold. With Descriptive Notices, and an Introductory 
Essay on Artistic and Practical Decoration. By GEORGE ASHDOWN Audsley, LL.D., 
F.R.I. B.A., author of several works on architecture and decorative art, and MAURICE 
ASHDOWN AUDSLEY, Architect. Folio (i6i by 11 J inches). In cloth portfolio, complete. 

Decoration and Ornament 

Suggestions in Design. A Comprehensive Series of Original Sketches in Various Styles 
of Ornament, arranged for application in the Decorative and Constructive Arts. By John 
Leighton, f.S.A. Accompanied by Descriptive and Historical Letterpress, with above 
300 explanatory engravings, by J. K. Colling, f.r.i.b.a. One volume. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



TX 
763 

K57 
V.2 



Kirkland, John 

The modem baker, 
confectioner and caterer 



3toMi|i 



THE MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER AND CATERER 



,^\ 


ra^<5^ 


SSfL 


mtj^ 


|te' 


3' ■ 


I V 


^ 


%Ji 


L^%2. 


Ipm 






^:\^V:"1\':m. 



< 

o 

D 





Q 


" 


UJ 


a 


Q_ 


LU 


CL 


00 




< 

0:i 


LU 

z 

LU 


~ 


U 




O) 




O 




z 




H 




Qi 




o 




0- 




(/) 



;.A»\;--';»^ 



\/// 






■/?ii;.vt''^-v 



THE 

MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER 
AND CATERER 



A PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORK 
FOR THE BAKING AND ALLIED TRADES 



EDITED BY 

JOHN KIRKLAND 

LECTURER AND TEACHER OF BREAD-MAKING NATIONAL 
BAKERY SCHOOL BOROUGH POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE LONDON 



WITH CONTRIBUTIONS FROM LEADING 
SPECIALISTS AND TRADE EXPERTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. IV 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

THIRTY-FOUR SOUTHAMPTON STREET STRAND LONDON 



CONTEiNTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. IV 



ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

Page 

Chapter I. Moulding and Casting Figures in Gum Paste - - 1 

Natural Flowers on Wedding Cakes — Gum-Paste Ornaments — To Prepare Gum Paste 
— Moulding with Gum Paste — Character of Plasticine — Modelling a Cupid— Casting 
from a IModelled Cupid — Preparing Double Mould for Peach— Use of Sulphur in 
Mould-making — Moulded Stand in Rice, Wax, or Sugar — Making Grained-Sugar 
Ornaments — Hollow Grained-Sugar or Wax Stands. 

Chapter II. Lace Piping and Chocolate Medallions . . . 5 

Modelled Plaques and Festoons for Cakes — Lace or Net Piping — Duplicating Designs 
— Chocolate Medallions for Cakes — Soft Chocolate Centres on Cakes — Chocolate Dough 
— To Keep Medallions — Preparing the Paste — Quantity of Sugar to Use — How to Fill 
the Moulds — Use of Ice for Cooling — Another Method of Moulding — Third Method 
of Moulding — Recipe for Medallion Varnish — Another Varnish Recipe — Chocolate 
Easter Eggs — Grained -Sugar Easter Eggs. 

Chapter III. Figure and Art Piping 8 

Figure Piping a New Art — Originality of Design — Where to Seek Models — Preparing 
Icing for Figure Work — Signs of Readiness of Icing — Best Materials to Pipe on — 
Subjects from Fanciers' Journals — Birds a Simple Subject — Stags Easy — Horses 
Difficult — Grouping should be Original — Flying Birds — Piping Lions' Manes — 
Copying by Tracing — Piping on Glass — Grouping Animals — Country and Sport 
Journals to Copy from — Mixing Colours — Landscape Piping — Different Features 
of Trees— To Pipe the Oak— Autumn Tints— Poplar Trees — Use of Trees in Per- 
spective — The Beech Tree. 

Chapter IV. Boiling Sugar 12 

Uses of Boiled Sugar— Sugar Thermometer — Degrees of Boiled Sugar — Use of Per- 
forated Spoon or Wire for Testing — The Blow Degree — The Feather Degree — 
Precautions against Burns — The Hard Ball Degree — How to Hold the Fingers to 
Dip into Sugar — The Soft Crack Degree — The Hard Crack Degree — Testing Sugar 
with the Teeth — The Caramel Degree — Sugar Properly Boiled should Keep Dry — 
Use of Acid and Glucose to Prevent Graining— Use of Cream of Tartar. 



vi CONTENTS 

Page 

Chapter V. Caramel Nougat 15 

Caramel Nougat — To Prepare Nougat — Nougat k la Parisienne — Moulding Nougat — 
Another Method of Filling Moulds — Uniformity of Colour — Nougat Montelimar. 

Chapter VL Spun-Sugar Decoration - 16 

Old Method of Spinning Sugar — Height to Boil Spinning Sugar— How to Spin Sugar 
— Uses of Spun Sugar. 

Chapter VII. Pulled-Sugar Work 18 

Effect of Pulling Sugar — Preparation of Pulled Sugar — Preparing the Slab — Making 
Stock Syrup for Boiling — How to Pull Sugar — Effects of Overworking — How Sheen 
is produced — Effects of Overheating when Moulding — Colouring the Sugar — Use of 
Powdered Aniline Colours — Keeping Pulled-Sugar Goods — Building up Sugar Roses — 
Natural Flowers as Models — Preparing and Fixing Stems — Moulding Leaves. 

Chapter VIII. Pulled-Sugar Articles and Built Meringues - - 21 

Building of Sugar Baskets — Instructions for Basket-making — Finishing the Baskets — 
Basket with Lid Partly Open — Four-handled Basket — Fancy Flower Pot — Sugar 
Slipper — How to Keep Stock Meringues — How to Prepare Shapes — Building Bee- 
hives — Meringue Boxes. 



SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 
Chapter IX. Marrons Glaces and Caramel Fruits - . - - 24 

Marrons Glaces — Density of Syrup for Preserving — Density of Syrup for Storing — 
Use of Glucose in Preserving — Finishing Marrons Glaces — Caramel Oranges — 
Pyramid of Oranges — Croquenbouche of Fruit — Caramel Walnuts — Caramel Pre- 
served Fruits — Caramel Prunes— Caramel Strawberries — Caramel Grapes — Wires 
for Dipping Fruits — Finishing Dipped Fruits — Disguised Chestnuts — Caramel 
Cherries. 

Chapter X. Fondants, Creams, Crystallized Fruits, Etc. - - 28 

Utensils for Making Fondants — Profitable Sweet-making — Making of Fondants — 
Syrup for Crystallizing — Crystallizing Fondants — Flavouring of Fondants — Crystal- 
lizing Prunes — Marzipan Shapes — Small Cockles — Centres for Chocolates— The 
Covering Chocolate — Coating Centres with Chocolate — Preparation of Fondant 
Centres — Preparation of the Chocolate — Danger of Overheating — Nougat Creams 
— Hard Nougat Centres— Pralinee Centres — Fruit Centres — Liqueur Centres — Pre- 
paration of Soft Centres for Covering. 

Chapter XL Jellies - - 35 

Calves' -Foot Jelly — Preparation of Calves' -Foot Jelly — Recipe for Sweet Jelly — 
Straining through a Jelly-bag — Use of Isinglass or Gelatine — Recipe for Stock 
Jelly from Gelatine — Method of Clarifying — Macedoine Jellies — Method of Filling 
Moulds — Printaniere or Spring Jellies — Pineapple Jellies — Gold-Leaf Jellies — Marbled 
Jellies — Whipped Jelly — Neige or Snow Jelly — Autumn Jellies — Tricolour or Rubani 
Jellies — Valentine Jellies — Champagne Jellies — Harlequin Jellies — Method of Filling 
the Mixed Jellies — Punch Jellies — Noyau Jellies — Maraschino Jellies— Orange Jellies 
— To Prepare Oranges for Jellies — Crofttes of Peaches — Other Kinds of Moulded 
Jellies — Aspic Jelly — To Test Consistency. 

Chapter XII. Chartreuses of Fruits 40 

Chartreuses of Fruits — Jelly for Whipped Cream — Chartreuse of Bananas — Preparing 
Whipped Cream — Special Precautions with Tinned Fruits — List of Fruit Chartreuses. 



CONTt:NTS vii 

Page 

Chapter XIII. Charlottes and Moulded Creams - - - - 41 

Russian Charlotte — Venetian Charlotte — Charlotte Coloniale — Charlotte ^cossaise — 
Charlotte Normande — Charlotte Mignons— Fruit Juices for Flavouring — Chopped 
Jelly for Decoration — Moulded Creams — How Creams are Spoiled — Vanilla Cream — 
Brown-bread Cream — Italian Cream — Pistachio Cream — Sicilian Cream — Chocolate 
Cream — Coffee Cream — Millefruit Cream — Bavaroise Creams — Custard for Cream 
Mixing. 

Chapter XIV. Compote of Fruit and Supper Dishes - - - 44 

Fruit Dishes— Supreme of Pineapple — Supreme of Cherries — To Cook Fresh Cherries 
— Riz a rimperatrice — Blancmange — CroAtes of Pineapple — Forming Dish of Crotites 
— CroAtes of Peaches — Crolites of Tangerines — Crofites of Madeira — Savarin and 
Cherries — Savarins with Cream — Savarin and Apricots — Savarin and Peaches — 
Swallow's Nest — Small Nests of Marron — Mont Blanc Chantilly — Marron and 
Meringue — Venetian Pudding — Neapolitan Cream — Cream Gaufres. 

Chapter XV. Entremets ... 48 

Vanilla Souffle — Vanilla Souffle Pudding — Vanilla Souffle Fritters — Chocolate Souffle 
— Coffee Souffle — Rice Souffle— Sauce with Souffles — Apple Fritters — Use of the 
Salamand — Peach Sicilian — Pears Sicilian — Filling for Peaches — Apple Charlottes — 
Bread Fingers for Lining — Short Paste Lining for Charlottes. 

ICES 
Chapter XVI. The Preparation of Ices 51 

Good Materials Necessary — Utensils Needed — Best Machines — Moulds for Ices — 
Proportions of Ice and Salt — Breaking the Ice— Stationary Machines — Use of the 
Spatula — Use of the Saccharometer — Method of Stacking Freezer for Transport — Ice 
Caves — Fresh Fruits best for Ices — Cream and Water Ices — Vanilla Cream Ice — 
Vanilla Seeds in Ices — Vanilla Custard Ice — Why Custard must not be much Boiled 
— Cheap Vanilla Custard — Use of Gelatine and Corn Flour — Coffee Cream Ice — 
Strawberry Cream Ice — Cheap Strawberry Ice — Raspberry Cream Ice — Banana Cream 
Ice — Serving in Banana Skins — Moulding Banana Ices — Pineapple Cream Ice — 
Preparing Pineapple for Ices — Glace a la Creme Pralinee — Chocolate Cream Ice — 
Apricot Cream Ice — Peach Cream Ice — Orange Cream Ice — Pistachio Cream Ice — 
Walnut Cream Ice — Ginger Cream Ice — Brown-bread Cream Ice — Plain Biscuit Ice 
— Green-tea Ice — Nesselrode Ice Pudding — Pear Cream Ice — Cherry Cream Ice — 
Hazel-nut Cream Ice — Caramel Cream Ice. 

Chapter XVII. Souffles, Mousses, Etc. 59 

Souffles — Cream and Egg Souffles— Souffle of Yolks — Moulded Mousses — Parfait 
Souffles, 

Chapter XVIII. Water Ices and Sorbets 61 

Whipped Whites in Water Ices— Lemon Water Ice— Orange Water Ice— Tangerine 
Water Ice — Pineapple Water Ice — Peach Water Ice— Apricot Water Ice — Melon 
Water Ice— Strawberry Water Ice— Raspberry and Red-Currant Ice— Cherry Water 
Ice — Sorbet — Lemon Sorbet — Pineapple Sorbet — Sorbet au Champagne — Orange 
Sorbet— Grape Sorbet— Millefruit Sorbet— Granite Sorbet. 

Chapter XIX. Moulded Ices and Puddings 64 

Preparing Moulds for Ices— Neapolitan Ices— Order of Layers in Mould — Bomb 
Dahomey Ice — Melon Ice Pudding — Brazilian Ice — Pineapple Ice — Italian Ice — 
Glace le Mogador — Glace Comtesse Marie — Glace Cronstadt— Apricot Plombiere — 
Tutti-Frutti Glace— Biscuit Imperial Glace— Dutch Biscuits— Forced Tangerines — 
Small Peach Ices — Punch k la Romaine. 



viii CONTENTS 

MENU DISHES 

Page 

Chapter XX. Hors D'CEuvres - - 69 

Restaurant and Outdoor Catering — Hors d'ffiuvres — Huitres au Naturel — Lax sur 
Crofttes — Canape k la Zanzibar— Smoked Salmon — Bologne Sausage— CroAtes a la 
E-osamonde— Huf tres au Caviar — CroCltes k la Burlington — Crofites aux Olives Farcies 
— Tartines de Cat'iar — Caviar sur Croiites — Crofltes a la Marie — Little Salad of 
Prawns — Russian Salad in Cases. 

Chapter XXI. Preparation of Soups - 71 

Clear or Gravy Soup — Consomme k la Julienne — Consomme k la Jardiniere — Con- 
somme k la Brunoise — Consomme a la Printaniere — Consomme a la Chiffonade — 
Consomme a la D'Esclignac — Consomme a la Royale — Consomme aux Profiteroles — 
Consomme aux Quenelles — Clear Vermicelli Soup — Clear Macaroni Soup — Consomme 
a la Lelie — Consomme Pompadour — Consomme a la Princesse — Consomme a la Pales- 
tine — Consomme k la Valetta — Consomme a la Nivernaise — Consomme Dauphine 
— Clear Ox-tail Soup — Clear Mock Turtle Soup — Clear Turtle Soup — Clear Game Soup 
—Thick Tomato Soup— Thick Mock Turtle Soup— Thick Ox-tail Soup— Thick Grouse 
Soup — Thick Partridge Soup — Pheasant Soup — Rabbit Soup — Hare Soup — Ox-cheek 
Soup — Prince of Wales Soup — Queen Soup — Potage a la Bonne Femme — Thick ■ 
Asparagus Soup — Scotch Broth — American Soup. 

Chapter XXII. Vegetable Soups -------- 79 

Chestnut Soup — Carrot Soup — Barley Soup — Spinach Soup — Artichoke Soup — Turnip 
Soup — Green-Pea Soup — Potato Soup — Dutch Soup. 

Chapter XXIII. Fish Soups - - - 80 

Lobster Soup— Crayfish Soup — Oyster Soup— Mussel Soup — Shrimp Soup — Prawn 
Soup. 

Chapter XXIV. Sauces 81 

White Roux Thickening for Sauces — Brown Roux Thickening for Sauces — Brown 
Sauce — White Sauce — Italian Sauce — White Italian Sauce — Sharp Sauce — Tomato 
Sauce — Genevese Sauce — Matelote Sauce — Lobster Sauce — Maltre d'Hotel Sauce — 
Curry Sauce — Mayonnaise Sauce — Green Mayonnaise Sauce — Red Mayonnaise Sauce 
— Tartar Sauce — Remoulade Sauce (Cold)— Remoulade Sauce (Hot) — Provengal Sauce 
— Sauce for Cold Meat, Brawn, &c.— Caper Sauce — Brown Caper Sauce — Black Butter 
Sauce — Egg Sauce— Mustard Sauce — Bread Sauce — Fennel Sauce — Shrimp Sauce — 
Ravigote Sauce — Green Ravigote Sauce— Sauce Robert —Parsley Sauce— Anchovy 
Sauce — Horseradish Sauce— Mousseline Sauce (Hot) — Mousseline Sauce (Cold) — 
Gherkin Sauce — Dutch Sauce — Mussel Sauce — German Sauce — Sauce Bearnaise — 
Sauce Supreme — Mint Sauce — White Chaudfroid Sauce — Brown Chaudfroid Sauce — 
D'Uxelles Sauce — Cumberland Sauce — Madeira Sauce — Financiere Sauce — Devil 
Sauce— Norwegian Sauce — Bordeaux Sauce — Sauce for Venison — Sauce for Roast 
Veal — White Onion Puree — Brown Onion Sauce — Fine Herb Sauce — Bechamel Sauce 
— Mayonnaise Dressing for Salad— Maitre d'Hotel Butter— Fish Glaze— Mushroom 
- Sauce— Port- wine Sauce— Plain White Sauce or Butter Sauce— White Onion Sauce 
— Oyster Sauce— Cherry Sauce— Neapolitan Sauce. 

Chapter XXV. Cooking and Serving Fish- 91 

Lobster Coral— Fish Cream or Fish Farce— Fried Fillets of Sole— Soles in White 
Wine— Surprise Fillets of Sole— Filets de Sole a I'Orly— Filets de Sole k la Normande— 
Filets de Sole a la Richelieu— Filets de Sole en Belle-vue— Mayonnaise of Fillets of 
Soles— Soles au Gratin— Sole k la Colbert— Boiled Salmon— Fillets of Salmon — 
Mayonnaise of Salmon— Grilled Slice of Salmon— Fried Slices of Salmon— Red 
Mullet— Grey Broiled Mullet— Rougets aux Fines Herbes— Rougets k la Maltre 



CONTENTS ix 

Page 
d'Hotel— Boiled Turbot— Fillets of Turbot— Broiled Turbot— Turbot au Gratin— 
Turbot au Gratin a I'ltalienne — Turbot a la Russe and Turbot a la Morny — Turbot 4 
la Creme Gratin — Fillets of Turbot k I'lmperatrice — Fish Rissoles — Smelts a I'Anglaise 
— Smelts Curled and Fried — Smelts for Invalids — Whiting — Fillets of Whiting — 
Filets de Merlans a la Regence — Filets de Merlans k I'Americaine — Filets de Merlans 
k I'Ambassadrice — Cream of Whiting — Cream of Whiting in Aspic Jelly — Whiting 
Pollock — Trout — Fillets of Trout — Slices of Trout— Medaillons de Truites en Caisses 
— Boiled Haddock — Fillets of Haddock with Tartar Sauce — Filets de Merluche k 
rindienne — Halibut — Whitebait— Devilled Whitebait — Sturgeon — Grilled Sturgeon 
— Stuffed Pike — Tunny Fish — Weevers — Carp — Forced Carp — Fried Carp — Stewed 
Carp — Fried Dabs- — Cod with Dutch Sauce — Slices of Cod Fried — Tranches de 
Cabillaud a I'Espagnole — Grilled Cod — Grilled Cod a la Colbert — Eels — Spitchcocked 
Eels — Eels a la Georgina — Flounders — Fried Flounders — Flounders k I'Orly — Hake 
-Baked Hake — Gudgeon — Gurnard en Matelote — Fillets of Gurnard a I'ltalienne. 

Chapter XXVI. Shell Fish - - - - - - - - - 104 

Crab — Crayfish — Scallops in Shells — Oyster Patties — Oyster Vol au Vent — Oysters a 
la Bechamel (Cold) — Croquettes of Oysters — Kromeskies of Oysters — Oysters a la 
d'Uxelles — Scalloped Oysters — Huitres a I'Americaine — Homard k I'Americaine — 
Lobster Cutlets — Lobster Patties — Lobster Mayonnaise — Lobster Mayonnaise in 
Cases — Lobster Rissoles — Scalloped Lobster — Curried Lobster — Potted Lobster — 
Quenelles of Lobster — Mussels — Scalloped Mussels. 

Chapter XXVII. Fish Entrees 110 

Rice Borders for Entrees — Oyster Fritters — Oyster Fritters k la Villeroi — Oysters on 
Skewers — CroAtes d'Huitres a la Calaisienne — Oyster Pudding — Devilled Oysters 
—Sardine Fritters — Scalloped or Buttered Lobster — Chartreuse of Fillets of Sole — 
Crepinettes k la Cardinal — Filets de Soles k la Venetienne (Cold) — Mousseline de 
Saumon k la Mcmtmorency (Cold) — Bread Panada — Mousse of Lobster in Aspic — 
Fillets of Sole in China Shells. 

Chapter XXVIII. Sweetbread and other Entrees - - - - 113 

Sweetbreads — Medallions of Sweetbreads — Sweetbreads k la d'Uxelles — Sweetbreads 
k la Villeroi — Sweetbreads a I'Orly — Sweetbreads in Cases — Fried Sweetbreads — 
Sweetbreads k la Toulouse — Sweetbreads a la St. Cloud — Ris de Veau a la Melita — 
Fillets of Sweetbread with Aspic Jelly — Ris de Veau k la Marie Louise — Ris de Veau 
k I'lmperiale — Sweetbread with Pistachio Nut — fipigramme de Ris de Veau — Ris 
d'Agneau k la Milanaise — Lambs' Sweetbreads and Spinach — Petites Caisses de 
Ris d'Agneau au Gratin — Escalopes de Ris de Veau a la Dauphine — Escalopes de Ris 
de Veau a I'Archiduchesse — Ox Kidney Saute — Tripe a la Fran9aise — Calves' Brains 
k la Spezia— Minced Veal — Veal Croquettes — Calves' Feet Fritters — Calves' Feet, 
Toulouse — Grenadins de Veau k la Nivernaise. 

Chapter XXIX. Foie Gras and other Entrees 118 

Petites Caisses de Foie Gras aux Truffes — Foie Gras Cutlets with Perigueux Sauce 
— Russian Kromeskies — French Kromeskies — Foie Gras Souffles — Parfait de Foie 
Gras — Mousse of Foie Gras — Sweetbread in Timbale — Timbale k la Milanaise — 
Vegetable Chartreuse — Chartreuse en Demi Duel. 

Chapter XXX. Entrees of Poultry, Game, Etc. - - - - 121 

Zephyrs de Caneton a la Belle lie — Miroton de Dindonneau k la Chatelaine — 
Grenadins de Lapereau k la Maintenon — Small Galantine of Chicken — Fillets of 
Chicken in Aspic — Curried Fowl — Rice for Curry — Filets de Volailles k la Boulang^re 
— Stewed Chicken, Marengo — Fillets of Chicken, Supreme — Fillets of Fowl k la 
Bigarure — Fillets of Chicken, Regence — Fillets of Chicken, Duchesse — Fricassee of 
Fowl — Blanquette of Fowl and Mushrooms — Quenelles of Chicken, Francaiae— 



X CONTENTS 

Page 
Chicken Quenelles, Lucullus — Chicken Bread, Victoria — Chicken Zephyr, Cream 
Sauce — Parisian Timbale — Victoria Sausages — Chicken Fritters — Chicken Panada, 
Princess — Petites Timbales k la Royale — Small Chicken Souffles — Compote de 
Pigeons k la Financiere — Pigeon Compote and Peas — Compote de Pigeons k la 
Zingara — Pigeon Medallions and Asparagus — Pigeon Cutlets — Pigeon Cutlets, 
Bourguignotte — Pigeon Cutlets, Pompadour — Pigeon Cutlets, Lucullus — Pigeon 
Fillets, Varenne — Pigeon Turban — Fillets of Guinea Fowl — Fillets of Grouse a la 
Bohemienne — Lark Pudding — Mauviettes a la Comtesse Rosetti — Crepinettes k la 
Chasseur — Larks in Small Cases — Larks, Montgolfier — Lark Turban — Filets de 
Mauviettes en Caisses aux Fines Herbes — Filets de Mauviettes en Hatelettes — 
Quails, Syrienne — Stuffed Quails in Casserole — Quails Farced a la Financiere — Quail 
Salmis and Stuffed Tomatoes — Farced Quails in Cold Consomme — Compote of Quails 
and Farced Olives — Turban of Quails — Quail Cutlets, Perigord — Quail Cutlets, Villeroi 
Quail Cutlets, Financiere — Farced Quails, Rothschild — Fillets of Hare, Neapolitan — 
Fillets of Hare, St. Hubert — Hare Cutlets, Reform — Turban of Hare and Mushrooms 
— Petits Pains de Lievre a I'Essence — Small Cases of Game — Salmis of Partridge and 
Truffles — Chartreuse of Partridge and Cabbage — Fillets of Wild Duck, Bigarade. 

Chapter XXXL Meat Entrees 135 

Smoked Tongue — Ox Palates — Ox Palates with Stuffed Tomatoes — Noisettes of 
Lamb with Asparagus Points — Mutton Cutlets, Victoria — Mutton Cutlets, Alexandra 
— Mutton Cutlets, Chevreuille — Mutton Cutlets, Pompadour — Mutton Cutlets, 
Descartes— Mutton Cutlets, Eugenie — Cutlets of Lamb, Maintenon — Grenadins de 
Veau k la Jardiniere — Veal Kernels — Tendons of Veal — Beef Olives, Lucullus — 
Fillets of Beef, Neapolitan — Fillets of Beef, Strasburg — Steak a la Bordelaise — Steak 
a la Maitre d'Hotel — Steak a la Beamaise — Steak a la Chateaubriand — Steak and 
Oyster — Tournedos of Beef — Scallop of Beef with Turnip — Scallop of Beef, American 
— Scallop of Beef, St. James — Fillets of Beef, Sydney — Fillets of Beef, Seville — Vienna 
Steaks— Fillets of Beef (Cold)— Fillets of Beef, Gratin— Cutlet of Beef, Rome- 
Minced Beef — Fillets of Beef, Orient — Filets de Pore a la Crapaudine — Foie Gras 
Sevigne — Cotelettes d'Agneau k la Menthe. 

Chapter XXXII. Poultry, Meat, and Game Pies, Etc. - - - 142 

Pigeon Pie — Veal and Ham Pie — Rump — Steak Pie — Steak and Oyster Pie — Chicken 
and Ham Pie — Shepherds' Pie — Partridge Pie — Venison Pie — Hare Pie— Rabbit 
Pie — Steak and Kidney Pie— Jugged Hare — Haricot Mutton — Kidneys with Bacon 
— Stewed Pigeons — Raised Pheasant Pie — Paste for Raised Pies — Raised Pies with 
Hot- water Paste — Galantine of Veal — Galantine of Chicken — Pressed Beef— Pickle 
for Brisket of Beef. 

Chapter XXXIII. Joints U7 

Roast Sirloin of Beef— Braised Sirloin— Roast Fillet of Beef— Roast Fillet of Beef, 
Reform— Braised Fillet of Beef— Braised Fillet of Beef, Milanese— Fillet of Beef, 
Lorraine — Braised Fillet of Beef, Roman — Braised Fillet of Beef, American — Braised 
Fillet of Beef, Palestine— Braised Fillet of Beef, Sevano— Braised Fillet of Beef, 
Delmonico — Braised Fillet of Beef, Ligny — Boiled Beef — Round of Beef — Roast 
Leg of Mutton — Boiled Leg of Mutton — Braised Leg of Mutton — Stuffed Leg of 
Mutton — Roast Shoulder of Mutton — Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton — Rolled Shoulder 
of Mutton with Oysters — Roast Saddle of Mutton — Braised Saddle of Mutton, Grand 
Duke— Braised Saddle of Mutton with Celery— Boiled Neck of Mutton— Roast Neck 
of Mutton. 



LIST OF PLATES 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. IV 



Page 

"Raised": A Sporting Scene Piped with Sugar 

(Coloured) Frontispiece 

Specimens of Gum-Paste Ornamentation 2 

Modelling in Plasticine 4 

Piped Designs for Cake Sides 8 

Animal Outlines for Piping 12 

Specimens of Modelling in Sugar - 16 

Pulled Sugar and Nougat Centre Pieces (Coloured) - - - 20 

Built Meringues 24 

A Three-Tier Wedding Cake 34 

Cold Entremets (Coloured) 44 

Four Presidents - 54 

Sam B. Leicester. William Arundel. 

Henry Smith, J.P. Richard Taylor. 

Moulded Ices (Coloured) - - - 64 

Specimens of Cake Decoration 80 

Moulded Marzipan Fruits (Coloured) 100 

Four Notable Bakers 140 

W. H. Palmer. Joseph Merritt. 

B. T. Bell. W. H. Curtis. 



THE MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER AND CATERER 



CHAPTER I 

MOULDING AND CASTING FIGUEES IN GUM PASTE 

In addition to the piping on wedding cakes, natural and artificial flowers 
and leaves are used. It is the usual practice in some high-class establish- 
ments to decorate all large cakes with natural flowers, Natural Flowers on 
and as much as thirty shillings for this purpose is Wedding Cakes, 
allowed for a three-tier wedding cake costing about ten guineas. The 
flowers are generally made up in festoons, sprays, and horseshoes, with 
a wreath for the bottom, and a bouquet for the top to be placed in a 
vase. Orange blossoms, white roses, various kinds of lilies, and other 
white flowers, mixed with small leaves, are used for the above purposes; 
they are fastened on with white pins. 

Formerly the preparation of gum-paste ornaments, flowers, and leaves 
formed an important branch of the confectioner's work. Many of the 
older business houses had in use a large stock of moulds Gum -Paste 
and other utensils for this work. Gum -paste ornaments Ornaments, 
were also much used for decorating wedding and other cakes, but these 
have now been superseded b}^ various ornaments made with china, in 
the shape of Cupids and vases for holding natural or artificial bouquets. 
There does not appear to be any indication of gum paste again becoming 
popular. The demand is more than ever for those decorations which 
are quickly prepared and at moderate prices. 

There is even greater objection to gum-paste ornaments than to decora- 
tions in royal icing on the ground of hardness. For show cakes and 
dummies, however, gum paste has still its uses, and it lends to Prepare 
itself especially to the preparation of show pieces for the shop ^""^ Paste, 
window. There is no quite definite recipe for the preparation of gum paste. 
Its general composition, however, is always a mixture of gum tragacanth, 
icing sugar, and fine starch powder. The gum is soaked in cold water 
until it becomes quite soft and soluble, only enough water being used to 
make it of a thin jelly-like consistency. As there is invariably a quantity 
of foreign matter amongst the gum, it may be necessary to pass it through 
Vol. II. 1 61 



ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 



a piece of muslin before mixing. It is then made into a smooth, pliable 
dough, with a mixture of about 4 oz, of starch powder to 14 oz. of finest 
icing sugar. In the course of mixing, a little liquid blue should be added 
to the gum to make the paste look very white when it dries. As another 
precaution to ensure whiteness, care must be taken that the slab on 
which the paste is mixed and the mixer's hands are scrupulously clean. 
When the dough is made it should be kept in 
a jar with a lid, or under a basin on the slab, 
and only the quantity being manipulated should 
be exposed to the air, as it so readily becomes 
dry and crusted. The gum for the paste re- 
quires to be soaked in cold water for twenty- 
four hours, or until the whole becomes quite 
soft and pulpy and free from any hard pieces; 
and as it is frequently dusty, it should be 
washed by passing a stream of cold water over 
it in a wire sieve before soaking. 

Moulding the paste is an operation requiring 
care and patience. Moulds may be prepared by 
Moulding with the confectioner himself with 
Gum Paste. plaster of Paris, from figures or 
designs modelled with plasticine or wax, or from 
metal work on which there may be some suit- 
able design. Special moulds for this work 
may, however, be bought at a moderate 
price (fig. 86). In casting or moulding with 
gum paste the mould is first dusted with 
a little starch powder shaken in with a 
muslin bag, or the mould may be quite 
filled with the powder and then emptied 
and tapped gently several times on the 
table to remove all the powder except the 
thin film adhering to the design. The 
gum paste is then pinned out to about the 

length and thickness required to fill the mould, and is pressed in gently 
but firmly with the thumbs. Too much pressure must not be used or 
the paste is likely to stick. If the mould is more than full, the excess 
paste is cut ofi' level with the edge of the design with a sharp knife. A 
slight tap of the edge of the mould on the table ought to be sufficient 
to relieve the casting. If it sticks, it is either becausa too much pressure 
has been exerted or because the mould has not been properly prepared 
and dusted. When the design is very delicate or very thin, it is necessary 
to strengthen it by fixing fine netting on the back. After the casting 
is trimmed in the mould the back is brushed with a thick solution of 
gum arabic, and a piece of netting about the same width and length as 
the design is pressed evenly on it. The mould is then tapped gently, 





86. — Plaster Moulds for Table Ornament 




O 

< 

z 

m 

:^ 

<c 
z 

cc: 
O 

UJ 

< 
a, 



O 

O 

(/) 
z 

u 

UJ 

Du 



MOULDING AND CASTING FIGUEES IN GUM PASTE 3 

and the gum -paste design is relieved but adhering to the netting. The 
Plate, Specimens of Gum-Paste Ornamentation, shows some neat designs 
moulded in the manner described above, the figure being first modelled in 
plasticine and then cast with plaster of Paris. These pieces can be used 
for bending W'hile soft round the side of a cake, or for edges, or for build- 
ing a drum for the top of a wedding cake on which the vase containing 
the flowers stands. 

With some knowledge of modelling, either with plasticine or soft 
wax, various models may be prepared for casting in sulphur or plaster 
of Paris. The moulds prepared with either of these materials character of 
may be used for moulding with gum paste, stearine v^^ax, Plasticine, 
marzipan, or grained sugar. Plasticine is in many respects the best 
material for the purpose. It is easily worked, does not dry hard, and 
may be used without covering with oil or fat when casting the moulds. 

The Plate, Modelling in Plasticine, shows four stages in the 
modelling of a Cupid. This was shaped with the fingers and finished 
with a small modelling tool. The figure is fixed securely on Modelling 
a piece of zinc to prevent its being removed when raising ^ Cupid, 
the casting made with the plaster. This work is not very difficult, and 
becomes very easy after a little practice. The fourth figure on the 
plate shows a mould prepared from the model, made with fine plaster 
of Paris in the manner explained in the following direc- Casting from a 
tions. Prepare four pieces of clay or plasticine J in. wide Modelled Cupid, 
and 2 in. deep, joined securely together round the figure so as to leave 
a margin of about 1 in. Place sufficient plaster of Paris of as fine a 
quality as possible in a bowl and cover with water. Mix together, and, 
when the mixture begins to thicken, pour part over the model until it 
is barely covered. Blow on this plaster while still soft, so that it is 
forced into each small groove on the figure; then add the remainder to 
make the mould about 2 in. deep. Allow all to set quite firm before 
removing. Within thirty minutes the mould should be raised and put 
to dry for a few hours in an ordinary drying oven. To protect the 
sides of this or other similar moulds from breaking while in use, a piece 
of felt or baize should be glued on. 

The preparation of the above mould is very simple as compared with 
some others that are larger and must be made in sections. To give some 
simple ideas of the method generally adopted for the Preparing Double 
preparation of these moulds, we shall take one suitable Mould for Peach, 
for moulding almond -paste peaches. Prepare a small frame of wood or 
clay 3 in. deep, from 3 to 4 in. square. Cover the inside with oil or 
any soft fat and half-fill with soft plaster. With a camel's-hair brush 
cover a nice -shaped fresh peach with oil and press this halfway into 
the plaster. With the point of a small knife make two holes on one 
side of the latter about 2 in. apart. Prepare a second mixture of plaster, 
cover that which has set in the frame with oil, and fill above the level 
of the peach with the soft mixture as it begins to thicken. When the 



ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 



whole has set quite firm, remove the frame, pull apart the two halves 
of the mould, take away the fruit, and the mould is ready for use. 

Sometimes the centres of 
these small moulds are prepared 

Use of Sulphur in with sulphur. 

Mould-making. i^ this case 
the small mould of sulphur is 
made in two separate pieces, and 
enclosed in a frame of plaster of 
Paris. There is an advantage in 
using sulphur moulds, as they 
give a better finish than those 
prepared with plaster only. 
Such moulds are useful for 
making moulded fruits, cockles 
with cherry centres, green paste 
almonds, and other fancy bon- 
bons for crystallizing or cover- 
ing with caramel sugar. 

For table decorations, for 
dishing up entrees, or for choice 

Moulded Stand V}^""^^ of COnfec- 

in Rice, Wax, tionery, centre 

or Sugar. stands are made 

from carved blocks of prepared 

rice, or are moulded in stearine 

wax or grained sugar. Plaster moulds (fig. 87) are necessary when the 

stands are made with sugar or wax. The moulds are soaked in cold water 

for at least one hour before using. In either case, moulding with these 

materials is not a difficult operation. To 

obtain a wax model, take the required 

quantity of wax and melt this over a 

bain-viarie (on no account must it be 

made very hot). Remove the mould from 

the water, shake thoroughly to obtain a 

clear surface, and fill in with the liquid 

wax. In a few moments this will have 

set quite firm. The several parts of the 

mould may then be removed, to liberate 

the moulded wax. 

To mould these articles in grained 
sugar (fig. 88), boil the required quan- 
Making Grained- titles of sugar and water 

Sugar Ornaments, to the soft-ball degree. Remove from the stove and 
stir the syrup with a spoon until it begins to thicken and becomes opaque. 
Drain off all excess water from the mould, fill in with the grained sugar, 




Fig. 87.— Plaster Moulds for Wax Centre Piece 




Fig. 88.— Grained-sugar Compote Stand 




MODELLING IN PLASTICINE 



(The last figure is a plaster east from the finished model) 



LACE PIPING AND CHOCOLATE MEDALLIONS 5 

and allow to lie for ten minutes before removing from the mould. If 
these stands are wanted hollow, this may be accom- Hollow Grained- Sugar 
plished by pricking a small hole into the warm wax or '^^^ Stands, 
or sugar before setting firm, and turning the moulds upside down to run 
out part of the filling. 



CHAPTER II 

LACE PIPING AND CHOCOLATE MEDALLIONS 

Moulded festoons or moulded figures are frequently used for the sides 
of cakes. These are made either in gum paste or marzipan. Figures 
are used for inset panels and make the side of a wedding Modelled Plaques 
cake appear much better than if wholly piped (see Plate, and Festoons 
Specimens of Cake Decoration). The fashion within ^°'" ^^'^^^• 
the last few years has grown in favour of making all the piping very light, 
mostly hollow and following patterns that are familiarly called lace work. 
As this takes much care and patience, and as it is generally Lace or 
necessary to pipe from several different directions, this fine ^^^ Piping- 
work must be done off the cake. Pieces of tin or zinc neatly bent to 






Fig. 89.— Zinc Shapes for Lace Piping 

the desired shapes (fig. 89) are covered with fine waxed paper on which 
the design, if a difficult one, has been drawn with pencil on the unwaxed 
side, and, as the paper is quite transparent, this is easily seen on the upper 
side. The pieces have to be piped in small portions at once. Duplicating 
but as there are many parts that should be exact duplicates Designs, 
of each other, it is a good plan to take a number of pieces of waxed 
paper corresponding to the number of duplicated parts required, and draw 
the desired design on all at once with a pencil and pieces of carbon paper 
between the pieces of waxed paper. Exact duplicates of the design are 
obtained in this way with the minimum of trouble. The fine piping readily 
leaves the waxed paper when the work is finished, and is then fixed on 



ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 



the border of the cake, or wherever wanted, with a little piping sugar. 
The fine piping is usually made strong by simply piping one fine line on 
top of another. Fig. 89 shows some of the shapes that may be used for 
this kind of work. 

On birthday cakes small chocolate medallions produce nice contrasts 
in colour with the white or coloured sugar. The medallions for cake 
Chocolate sides are generally round or oval, and have figures, scenes, or 
Medallions monograms piped on them. For cake tops, round, oval, or 
°^ ^ ^^' shield-shaped medallions are used, and on these the inscriptions 
required are piped. A chocolate centre run on the cake top with coloured 
Soft Chocolate royal icing or with chocolate fondant is always flat and 
Centres on Cakes, soon becomes dull, and does not look nearly so well as 




Fig. 90— Quarter Sphere on Nail for 
Lace Piping 




Fig. 91.— Bain-marie 



a properly moulded medallion of chocolate, neatly piped and decorated 
with flowers, leaves, figures, &c. 

These may be prepared by warming small cakes of chocolate until 
quite soft, and shaping this dough in moulds. The medallions are best 
Chocolate made in lots at once and kept well wrapped until required. 
Dough. When the cakes of chocolate are prepared with other material 
than pure cocoa, sugar, and cocoa butter, small streaks appear on the 
medallions as the mixture hardens. For the Christmas season, when a 
To Keep large number are required, these should be prepared in advance, 
Medallions, covered with thin soft paper, and stored in air-tight boxes. 
For the dough weigh into a clean pan 1 lb. of pure, unsweetened block 
cocoa, cut into small pieces. Place the pan over a bain-marie (fig. 91), 
Preparing and warm the Cocoa gradually until it melts. Then mix in 
the Paste, i \}j qJ cocoa butter. When both substances have dissolved, 
stir in enough warm dried icing sugar to form a medium stifl" dough. 
Remove the pan from the bain-marie, knead the dough with the hand, 
and place this in the drying cupboard for six or seven hours before mould- 
ing. On no account should the dough be made hot. It should be kept at 



LACE PIPING AND CHOCOLATE MEDALLIONS 7 

a temperature of 85° to 90^ F., as overheating will cause the chocolate to 
cliange its colour quickly. The quantity of icing sugar Quantity of 
necessary to form a dough of a working consistency will be Sugar to Use. 
between 1 and 1^ lb., but this greatly depends upon the quality of the 
cocoa and the cocoa butter used. 

For preparing the medallions use only moulds that are quite smooth 
and bright. Warm these upon the oven stock, and with the fingers press 
in sufficient dough to fill the shallow moulds. While this is How to Fill 
being done gently tap the moulds on a cloth on the table, and ^^^ Moulds, 
as soon as the chocolate shows an oily surface place them at once in a 
cool place to set firm. As the chocolate hardens it will contract and 
come away from the side of the mould. The medallions should be taken 
out, but without touching the smooth surface of the chocolate. They are 
placed on papered trays ready to receive a coating of varnish. Moulded 
chocolate dough requires to be quickly cooled, to prevent the use of Ice 
ingredients from separating. The cooling may be effected ^°^ Coolmg. 
quickly by placing the moulds upon crushed ice for a few minutes, then 
removing to the coolest part of the bakery and leaving them until the 
chocolate leaves the sides of the moulds. Slow cooling, bad moulding, or 
heating the dough too much spoils the surface of the chocolate plaque. 
The best moulds for these articles are of thin tin, slightly concave, and 
with polished surface. 

There are two other methods of moulding which will also answer the 
purpose. The first is that usually adopted in factories, where the dough 
is made soft and placed in the mould with a small brush. Another Method 
A thin coating of chocolate is added, and when quite dry °^ Moulding, 
another is run over it. When turned out of the mould these medallions 
are much thinner and more profitable than those made solid. A third 
method is to line the moulds with a thin coating of un- Third Method 
sweetened block cocoa, and when this has set firm, to fill °^ Moulding. 
in with ordinary chocolate dough. The disadvantage attending this 
method is that the unsweetened cocoa is not so rich in colour as the 
reddish-brown chocolate. 

As chocolate is very hygroscopic, the surface of the medallions must 
be protected from the air by covering with varnish prepared with 14 oz. 
of rectified spirits of wine, 3 oz. of resin, 3f oz. gum Recipe for 
sandarach, and h oz. of brown shellac. Crush the dry Medallion Varnish, 
ingredients together, heat the alcohol to 94° F., place all together in a 
bottle, cork this, and store in a warm cupboard for twenty-four hours; 
then pass through a filter paper. This varnish must be applied smoothly 
with a broad camel's-hair brush. This mixture does not make a thick 
sticky varnish, but two coverings are necessary to form sufficient glaze 
on each medallion. The varnish should not be applied to the chocolate 
too soon after moulding, as the spirit evaporates in a short time, and the 
varnish becomes smeared if brushed while in this condition. This varnish 
should be kept stored in a corked bottle when not in use. 



8 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

Another Varnish Another kind ot' varnish is made by mixing together 4| 

Recipe. Q2. of gum benzoin with 1;^ gill of rectified spirits of wine. 

Chocolate Easter eggs may be prepared with dough as for medallions. 
Two thin coatings of this are necessary to have the eggs of the proper 
Chocolate thickness. If the dough is too soft or " runny ", add more 

Easter Eggs, warm icing sugar. The eggs may be filled with fondants, 
chocolate creams, or other fancy bonbons, the separate halves sealed 
together with chocolate dough, and wrapped in tinfoiL to preserve the 
glossy surface. For show purposes it is necessary to coat them over 
with the varnish. 

Grained sugar may also be used for the manufacture of Easter eggs. 
In this case the eggs are cast in plaster moulds. They are prepared in 
Grained- Sugar exactly the same manner as described for making sugar 
Easter Eggs. centre pieces (see p. 4). These should be made hollow, 
filled with chocolates, or other dainties, and an inscription or some fancy 
design piped on top. 



CHAPTER III 

FIGUEE AND AET PIPING 



It is very probable that if the average confectioner had been con- 
fronted with the above title, say twelve years ago, he would have been 
Figure Piping ^t a loss as to its exact meaning, for it will be generally 
a New Art. admitted by " old stagers " that, as far as the exhibition 
bench or shop window was concerned, the art of figure piping was then 
in its infancy. There were a few — a very few — exponents about that 
time, but they kept their work at home, and if they did bring it out 
occasionally it was assumed by others to be something turned out of a 
mould, and no further comment was passed upon it. At about the advent 
of the new century, however, this kind of work began to creep into the 
confectionery classes at the big exhibitions, and when figure piping pure 
and simple beat all other forms of artistic work in the sugar line in 
a class specially devoted to artistic confectionery, it was interesting to see 
how exhibits of this kind began to increase, so that now it is a standard 
form of decoration. The majority of those who attempt it have discovered 
that it is not quite so easy as it looks. 

The writer of this chapter has had large experience, and has met with 
considerable success in this branch of work. He will here draw upon this 
Originality experience to give some instruction to others who may wish to 
of Design, practise the art, accompanied by original designs, which are 
the outcome of either memory, imagination, or close observation, but 
certainly not copies from anybody's work. He does not mean it to be 
inferred from this that students and persevering figure and landscape 




PIPED DESIGNS FOR CAKE SIDES 



FIGURE AND ART PIPING 9 

pipers should not copy, but he would advise all those who have become 
proficient in copying, and those who have the gift or have acquired the 
art of freehand drawing, to strike out as early as possible on original 
designs of their own. He has stated before in print, and it will bear 
a good deal of repetition, that the finest copies extant are from nature's 
own handiwork. 

We may find subjects for our paper cornet everywhere around us — 
on the river, in the street, the park, the country lane, and even in the 
Zoological Gardens. Limited to a few yards of exercise where to 
ground, most members of the deer tribe may be observed ^^^^ Models. 
in those gardens, and in that confined space you may easily see the pro- 
portions of the stag and his stately walk; you may observe, too, the 
stork and the crane as they stand like sentinels by the edge of the 
water as if watching for fish that do not exist there; the lion, tiger, 
and leopard, too, which are all object lessons in their way for the figure 
piper; and when you have got them on your medallion or whatnot, 
with that natural attitude embodied in the design, their identity becomes 
unmistakable. It is this identity we have to aim at all through the 
practically boundless studies with which nature has provided us, not only 
in the animal world but in their equally important environments, such 
as trees, shrubs, and general landscape. It is the writer's intention to 
assist the student, if possible, in the art of making a veritable sugar 
picture, and to gain this end the surroundings are as important as the 
figures. 

As these instructions appeal mostly to learners, it will be well first 
of all to lay down simple rules for making up the royal icing for our 
studies. This is very simple, and may be made as follows. Preparing icing 
Break two or three whites of eggs (quite free from yolk) ^°^ Figure Work, 
into a very clean basin; then add enough of the very best icing sugar 
to these (probably 6 or 8 oz.) to make a fairly thick paste when stirred 
together. Add a very slight dash of powdered blue, and two or three 
drops of acetic acid, or a little lemon juice if acid is not available. Beat 
this well together till it becomes light and white, using a small wooden 
spoon or a wooden spatula for the purpose. When you think it is 
beaten sufficiently pull up the spoon perpendicularly, and if g- c 

the icing hangs downwards from the spoon (as an icicle from Readiness 
an iron spouting would) it is beaten enough for our purpose, °^ Icing, 
although it would not be beaten enough for wedding cakes. Having 
got your icing to this stage, put a damp cloth over the basin to keep 
the icing from crusting on the surface. Take a paper cornet of small 
size and about half -fill it with the icing; close in the top, and cut the 
point so that a small round hole is formed. 

Have ready a large slate, a black japanned tray, or some other dark 

foundation to work on, and, if you are a real beginner. Best Materials 

procure some drawings of birds, dogs, horses, &c., from the *° ^^'P^ °"' 

very excellent fanciers' papers which now exist, to copy from. The majority 
Vol. II. 62 



10 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONEKY 

of these pictures are either reproductions of photos from life or from draw- 
Subjects from ings by artists who are themselves naturalists. See the 
Fanciers' Journals. Plate, AnIMAL OUTLINES FOR PIPING. These pictures 
are most valuable for your purpose. The outline can be copied in sugar 
on to the slate or tray, and repeated over and over again till the outline 
form assumes the correct proportions. Further progress can be made by 
filling in the body, as all the best artists make it plain to the casual 
observer where the greatest relief is required in a black-and-white study, 
Birds a whether it is a bird or a stag, and of course the copyist 
Simple Subject, -y^in Jq ^rg}} ^,0 follow out those indications and get his 
relief accordingly. Birds are about the simplest studies for a figure 
piper, and perhaps dogs and the smaller quadrupeds come 
next; and the writer has found that stags lend themselves 
more readily to the sugar artist than horses, perhaps because their horns 

_ _ , do so much to establish their identity. Whether the 
Horses Difficult. , i . n -i Tmi,,i i 

student linds one more dimcult than another or not, it 

will be well for him to stick to the object he has in view and overcome 

his difficulties, and when his art of proportion and anatomy is once 

Grouping should acquired he will find the task is a very easy one when 

be Origmal. ^^ comes to grouping. It is at this stage that he should 

dispense with his copies and study nature as much as possible, so that he 

can make up his own groups or copy those from the parks or country 

lanes. 

In the management of such studies as a flying bird, a huntsman 
on horseback, or a lion, considerable care has to be exercised with the 
royal icing. It has to be fairly soft, but not soft enough 
to go beyond the form the subject is intended to be. In 
the case of the flying bird, it is necessary to let the body get fairly dry 
before piping on the wings; otherwise they will sink in, and with their 
additional bulk will spread the outline out of shape. For the same reason 
it is necessary to let the huntsman's horse dry before you put the rider 
on his back, or his legs will sink in. With the lion, make him first 
Piping Lions' like a lioness (maneless), and when that is dry the mane 
Manes. grj,n be added with safety. The icing should be made a 

little stifFer for such purposes as these, however. A small quantity taken 
out of the basin, with a little more sugar added, would answer this 
purpose, and then the mane of the lion can be piped on in irregular 
streaks, commencing with the semblance of a rough crown on top of 
the head and between the ears. A very great deal depends on how this 
mane is managed, but when well done it is a good subject, and will draw 
far more attention perhaps than the most elaborate bit of scrolling or 
lace work that may have taken treble the time to accomplish. 

Should, however, the freehand copyist find it very difficult to copy 
Copying by pictures in the manner described, owing to lack of draughts- 
Tracmg. mansliip in his composition, or even lack of patience, another 

and simpler method may be adopted, namely, to place a sheet of glass 



FIGURE AND ART PIPIKG 11 

over the picture and then trace the outline of the subject thereon with 
the piping bag. This will not be such meritorious work as that accom- 
plished by freehand, but still it will leave a strong white out- Piping 
line, and the piece of glass can be filled up with such outlines. °" Glass. 
After this a piece of black paper may be lightly gummed at the back, 
and the student can then copy from these freehand once more, for it is 
the freehand work, and that only, that leads up to originality, which 
should be the ultimate goal. 

The next thing to be considered is grouping. A group of deer or 
cattle, land birds or water fowl, all lend themselves readily to figure 
piping. Here a good illustrated book on natural history, or Grouping 
the excellent periodicals devoted to sport and country life. Animals. 
may be of great assistance, supposing the operator's visits to the real 
-scenes are infrequent. A great variety of trees may be country and 
found, too, in these periodicals, with rustic cottages and Sport journals 
the like, mostly reproduced from actual photographs. ^° ^"^^ ^''°"^" 
Notice in them how distant objects melt away, so to speak, and work 
your sugar accordingly, bringing the foreground objects out as boldly 
as possible. B}'- these means you get perspective. 

The figure piper of to-day has immense advantages over those of over 
a decade ago, for if our memory is at all lacking at the present time 
as to colour of rustic scenery, the professional artist has come to our 
assistance with the popular and inexpensive post card. There we can find, 
if need be, subjects which will embrace the four seasons of the year, and 

the confectioner's "colourist" will supply us with almost ,.. . 

. . , Mixing Colours, 

any tint that is required. It the piper is bent on land- 
scape, spinach green, saffron or yolkine, browning or " black jack ", and 
carmine will, if properly blended, produce all the effects that are necessary, 
on a chocolate medallion for instance. They require blending just in the 
same way as water or oil colours. The green as a rule is too "violent", 
80 it has to be sobered down with a little of the yolkine and black jack. 
Yolkine and browning blended in different proportions (without the green) 
are exceedingly useful in autumn tints — just such a scene, in fact, as that 
shown on the coloured plate entitled " Raised ". 

In land.scape piping a good knowledge of trees is as indispensable 
as that relating to the general anatomy of birds and quadrupeds, as the 

branches and foliage of the majoritv of them have all , , „. . 

. !• 1 . • TkT P • , Landscape Piping, 

their own pecuhar characteristics. Note, tor instance, 

the marked difference between the poplar and the oak, or the horse- 
chestnut and the birch. It may seem unnecessary to Different Features 
attempt to make these distinctions in sugar, but as °^ Trees, 
long as there does exist a wide divergence in their form we may as 
well represent them as nearly like the model as paper cornet and royal 

icinjr will allow us. If we desire to represent an oak ^ „. . ^ , 

1 • , 1 i 1 1 ^i • 1 To Pipe the Oak. 

tree, we can make its trunk somewhat rough and thick 

in proportion to its height. The branches should spread out almost at 



12 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

right angles, and twist and turn in a most wayward fashion. In the 

autumn tlie leaves turn a reddish-brown, and should be 

Autumn Tints. , i- i mi i i • p ^ 

treated accordingly. Ihe poplar tree is very usetul to 

convey the idea of distant effects, as they are generally seen in a line, 

and their branches having a tendency to grow upwards, 

they reveal their identity clearly enough, even when seen 

at any range It is absolutely necessary, however, to pipe them \ery 

faintly and very small in comparison with the trees in the foreground. 

Use of Trees in in order to get the necessary effect of perspective; for 

Perspective. j(^ seems to be an established rule that these trees should 

be associated with our rural scenery, but seldom associated with woods 

_^ „ , ^ and forests. The beech is a beautiful " autumn " tree, 
The Beech Tree. , , , , . • , t c • , 

the bark being comparatively smooth and of a greyish 

tint, while the leaves at that period are a brilliant reddish-yellow, showing 

up well in a subject piped in colours. It is trees and tints such as these 

that may be safely introduced in fox-hunting and pheasant- shooting 

scenes, always avoiding the brilliant greens of spring and sunuiier for 

such subjects. 

The writer has sanguine hopes that art piping will still go on gathering 

recruits. In many ways it helps to relieve the monotony at our exhibitions. 

It helps to elevate the mind and educate the hand of the operator, and it 

makes him a keen observer of nature's pictures. 



CHAPTER IV 

BOILING SUGAR 



Boiled sugar is used for covering fruit and almond-paste centres, or 
in the preparation of centre pieces for table decoration, made with caramel. 
Uses of spun, grained, or pulled sugar. It is prepared by boiling 

Boiled Sugar, ^q g^^ given temperature a solution of sugar and water with 
a little cream of tartar or glucose. The clear solution of sugar is made 
by adding 1 gill of v/ater for each pound of sugar, and heating to 
220° F. It is necessary that all the sugar crystals should be dissolved 
before the syrup begins to boil, as the lumps do not readily dissolve in 
the boiling sugar, and if in little pieces may cause recrystallization and 
grain the whole mass. Very slow boiling changes the colour of the sugar, 
and for this reason the copper pan containing the liquid sugar should 
be set over a good bright fire that it may boil quickly. Another point 
to remember is, that by adding more water than is necessary, the sugar 
has to remain longer on the fire before the required temperature is reached, 
and this tends to spoil the colour. At the same time enough water is 
required to dissolve the sugar crystals thoroughly; the quantities given 
above should prove sufficient. 




ANIMAL OUTLINES FOR PIPING 



BOILING SUGAR 



13 



A sugar thermometer (fig. 92) is generally used for testing the boiling 
sugar; there are other means of ascertaining this, but they Sugar 
are not so clean or so reliable. The following scale will serve 
as a guide for those who are not acquainted with the thermometer: — 



Thermometer. 



Syrup 


= 220 


Thiead 


= 225 


Pearl 


= 230 


Blow 


= 235 


Feather 


= 240 



Soft ball 


= 245° 


F. 


Hard ball 


= 250 


>j 


Soft crack 


= 280 


5> 


Hard crack 


= 312 


5> 


Cai-amel 


= 350 


JJ 



Degrees of 
Boiled Sugar. 



Perforated 
Spoon or 
Wire for 
Testing. 



As just stated there are other ways of testing the boiling sugar without 
a tliermometer. A perforated iron spoon, a piece of bent wire, use of 
or the fingers only, may be used. The spoon 
or piece of wire may be employed with fair 
results until the sugar reaches the soft -ball 
degree. Then it is necessary to use the fingers. 

The first workable degree to which sugar is boiled is 
that known as the blow. To test roughly for this degree 
the spoon or piece of bent wire (Vol. I, p. 330) The Blow 
is dipped into the sugar, and then lifted out Degree, 
and blown through, when small particles of clear syrup 
will blow off. The next degree is that known as the 
feather. When the boiling sugar has reached The Feather 
this stage it may be blown easily from the Degree, 
spoon or wire in long shreds. The soft-hall or full-feather 
degree is tested by making a small bulb of sugar between 
the fingers while cooling in cold water, or by obtaining 
long feathery pieces from the spoon or bent wire. 

As the novice may be fearful about dipping his finger 
into boiling syrup, it may be stated that all that is 
recjuired to prevent burning is to first dip Precautions 
the finger into water, then into the boiling Against Burns, 
sugar, then into the cold water again; but even if the 
finger is dipped into the hot sugar without previous wetting it does not 
burn. The explanation is that the moisture in the finger or, when water 
is used, on the finger forms a thin layer of water vapour, formed by the 
heat of the sugar, which serves as a vapour cushion and prevents actual 
contact between the sugar and the finger. 

For the manufacture of some fondant-cream centres for chocolate 
covering, sugar is boiled to the next stage, five degi-ees The Hard-Ball 
higher, known as the hard hall. This again is tested by Degree, 
dipping the fingers into the hot sugar, and quickly cooling in water. Some 
practice is required for this method of testing, to keep the pj t H id 
fingers slightly bent while taking out the sugar, also while the Fingers to 
working this into a ball in the water. By holding the ^*P *"*° ^"^"• 
fingers quite perpendicular while dipping in the sugar, there is not suffi- 



^ 


h 


fjl ^XJI 


:| M 


3-320 


-^ 


^300 


-\ 


^280 


— E 


^260 


—3 


V240 


-3 


=^220 


-f 


~z-iW 


-| 


^180 


-f 


=-160 


-\ 


~— 140 


-: 


_ 1 20 


-: 


r— 100 


-^ 


— 80 


-: 


;-- 60 


-^- 


"- 40 


1" PN 


L4--J-d 


\ 



Fig. 02.— Sujjiir 
Tliermometer 



14 ' ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

cient clinging to them to obtain satisfactorj'' results, and again what quantity 
there is may readily drop off into the water and quickly dissolve. This 
The Soft-Crack does not SO readily happen when more water has boiled 
Degree. gut, and the sugar is thicker, when the next stage, the soft 

crack, 280°, is reached. 

Sugar at this degree quickly rises in temperature. Within a few 
The Hard-Crack minutes it will have reached the hard crack, and must 
^^S'"^^- be instantly removed from the pan if required for making 

pulled sugar. At this stage, if tested with the wet fingers, it will quickly 
set hard and will easilj^ snap when pressed. Besides breaking this between 
the fingers to ascertain whether the sugar is ready, remove the pan to 
Testing Sugar the side of the stove, while biting a small piece of the 
with the Teeth, sugar between the teeth, and if it sticks to the teeth, return 
again and boil a few minutes longer. Sometimes sugar that has not been 
cooked sufficiently will grain while pulling, and will then be only fit for 
making syrup or black jack. Or where this does not happen, and the 
pulled sugar is used for building vases and other articles, these may fall 
to pieces, and all labour will be lost. As there is some difficulty, which 
can only be overcome by experience, in boiling and working sugar at 
this stage, the best plan is to test always with a sugar thermometer. 

Sugar boiled to 350°, or what is known as caramel, is slightly dark 
The Caramel in colour. At One time this was much used for making 
Degree. ornamental handles to decorate built trifles. Caramel is 

still used for some purposes. It should be of a bright golden colour. 

If pure refined sugar is used for boiling, the goods made from it should, 
Sucar Properly under fair circumstances, remain perfectly dry for two or 

Boiled should three days, but this is impossible where the quality of the 
Keep Dry. ^^^^^, -^ ^^ ^^^^^ 

When a boiling solution of sugar and water has passed the soft-ball 
Use of Acid and degree, it may readily grain unless some kind of acid 
Glucose to Pre- or glucose is added. Cream of tartar is mostly used for 
vent raining. ^-^-g purpose when the boiling has to be carried to a high 
temperature. If too large a quantity is used it will cause the sugar to 
Use of Cream change colour quickly, and goods covered or made with it 
of Tartar. q^^q likely to be soft and sticky. One gram of cream of 

tartar, mixed with the smallest possible quantity of water upon a bright 
spoon, wnll be sufficient for 2| lb. sugar, or 1 oz. to about 70 lb. of 
sugar. This should not be added until all scum has been removed from 
the boiling sugar, and the sides of the pan cleansed from hard particles. 
Boiling sugar intended for pulling or such purposes is all the better for 
the addition of a teaspoonful of glucose with the cream of tartar. Glucose 
should not be used alone as a preventive of graining when sugar for 
pulling is being boiled, as a larger quantity would be necessary, and 
as this softens more rapidly than sugar itself, a very small portion is 
needed. 



CARAMEL NOUGAT 15 

CHAPTER V 

' CARAMEL NOUGAT 

Caramel nougat is very useful for the preparation of many articles 
made for filling with whipped cream or mixed fruits. The nougat is 
prepared with chopped or filleted almonds, pistachio nuts, icing Caramel 
sugar, lemon juice, and glucose. To obtain nougat with a rich Nougat, 
clear appearance and a golden colour great care is necessary in preparing 
the almonds. These should not be overdried before using. If blanched 
the day before use, they will then be soft enough for this purpose. As the 
nougat in most cases has to be pinned out thin on the slab, its appearance 
is quickly spoiled if hard dry almonds are used. These break when rolled 
along with the caramel sugar, and produce white specks on the surface. 

Prepare the nougat as follows. Into a small clean copper mixing-bowl 
weigh 1 lb. of icing sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of 
glucose. Stand the pan over a steady fire, and stir all with to Prepare 
a spatula until the sugar melts and changes to a light golden Nougat, 
colour. The sugar during this process should be kept together in the 
centre of the bowl. Remove from the stove and mix in 12 oz. of chopped 
almonds, previously warmed and sifted to remove the very small pieces. 
Place the pan again on the fire, stir all together for a few moments, and 
turn out at once on a small baking sheet or thick saute pan. To keep the 
nougat soft, while part is being used for shaping in moulds or for pinning 
out, stand this on the oven stock. 

A kind known as nougat a la Parisienne is prepared by melting 
the sugar and using warm, thin, filleted almonds. Split Nougat a la 
blanched pistachio nuts are also used, and placed upon the Parisienne. 
warm nougat while it is being shaped. These may be mixed in, if required, 
with the other almonds, but the colour is not so efiective. 

Moulding or shaping the nougat with the fingers has to be done while 
the mixture is fairly soft. The moulds or other utensils used for the 
purpose should be warmed and covered with a thin coating of Moulding 
oil, clarified butter, or white vaseline. As noted, the nougat Nougat, 
should be pinned out on a marble slab, but in addition it is well to have 
in use at the side a clean, greased, and warmed baking sheet. The paste 
may then be transferred from one to the other until thin enough for the 
purpose required, care being taken, however, not to allow it to become too 
cold for moulding. For many purposes the slab need not be used; two flat 
baking sheets are sufficient. The nougat basket shown on the coloured 
plate (Pulled Sugar and Nougat Centre Pieces) was made by pinning 
the paste very thin and pressing into warm greased moulds. This may 
be shaped in another way. The nougat is pressed in Another Method 
small pieces into the mould until the complete shape is °^ Filling Moulds. 
obUiined. This, perhaps, is the better method when deep fancy moulds 



16 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

are used, but nougat pinned out thin and then moulded is much better 
for ordinary plain shapes. 

When making several articles, or one on to which a number of other 
pieces of nougat have to be fastened, they should all be of one colour. 
Uniformity of "^^^^ colour may be obtained by slovirly rewarming the hard 
Colour. trimmings, which are made when cutting out the various 

shapes, and using the rewarmed material for the small extra pieces. 

Nougat Montelimar is another kind of mixture in which almonds 
are used. This is made to sell in small square or oblong pieces shaped 
Nougat i^ moulds on wafer paper. It is necessary, as much as possible, 

Montelimar. t,o protect this confection from the air, as it easily takes up 
moisture and softens. Prepare the following ingredients: 2| lb. filleted 
almonds, 2| lb. lump sugar, | lb. blanched Sicilian pistachios, 1^ lb. white 
honey, 6 whites, 2 vanilla beans, | lb. small bright cherries, ^ lb. glucose, 
rose- and orange-flower water. Put the almonds and pistachios into a warm 
drying oven, in order that they may be quite dry when required. Place 
the glucose and honey together in a copper pan over the bain-Tnarie, and 
stir these ingredients together until the mixture is made quite hot. Boil 
the sugar, and vanilla beans with 2^ gills of water and a pinch of cream 
of tartai", to the hard-crack degree. Whisk this in with the whites, which 
have been beaten to a stiff froth; remove the beans, and mix this meringue 
together with the honey and glucose. Continue to stir the mixture still 
over the hain-marie until it becomes stiff; then add the other ingredients 
along with a little rose- and orange-flower water. Fill into oblong frames 
wliich have been lined with wafer paper, cover over with the same paper, 
and when almost cold cut into shapes and wrap in wax paper. 



CHAPTER VI 

SPUN-SUGAR DECORATION 

There is not now so much spun sugar used in table decorations as there 
was some years ago, and amongst what may be called shop confectioners, 
as distinguished from those employed in hotels, the art of spinning sugar is 
almost unknown. Yet pretty things can be made from spun sugar, and on 
this account it is as well that modern confectioners should not altogether 
neglect this branch of the business. About 150 years ago spinning sugar 
was one of the high arts of the kitchen, and all sorts of fancy table 
decorations were made from spun sugar. Here is the instruction from 
Old Method ^^ ^^^ work published 150 years ago to "spin a silver web 
of Spinning for covering sweetmeats ". " Take \ lb. of treble-refined sugar, 
in one lump, and set it before a moderate fire on a silver salver 
or pewter plate. Set it a little aslant, and when it begins to run like clear 
water to the edge of the salver, have ready a tin cover or china bowl, set 




SPECIMENS OF MODELLING IN SUGAR 



SPUN-SUGAR DECORATION 17 

on a stool with the mouth downward, close to your sugar, that it may 
not cool by carrying too far; then take a clean knife, and take up as 
much of the syrup as the point of the knife will hold, and a fine thread 
will come from the point, which you must draw as quick as possible 
backwards and forwards and also round the mould, as long as it will 
spin from the knife. Be very careful you do not drop the syrup on the 
web, if you do you will spoil it; then dip your knife into the syrup again 
and take up more, and so keep spinning until your sugar is done or your 
web is thick enough. Be sure you do not let the knife touch the lump 
on the plate that is not melted, it will make it brittle and not spin at 
all." A gold web was made by heating the sugar in a chafing dish over 
a charcoal fire. In the first case the melting of the sugar, to wdiich no 
water had been added, would easily raise it to the thread degree, while 
the higher heat of the charcoal fire would produce caramel of some of 
the sugar, hence the golden thread. 

The modern method of spinning sugar is to boil the required quantity 
of sugar and water, with a pinch of cream of tartar and a little glucose, 
to the hard -crack degree. Remove from the stove, and to Height to 
prevent the sugar from changing its colour stand the copper Boil Spinning 
pan in some cold water. When it has cooled sufficiently take "S^*"- 
it out of the cold water and place in a cake hoop in a slanting direction, 
so that the sugar comes to one side. Place two baking sheets lengthways, 
turned upside down upon the floor, and while holding a greased rolling- 
pin out straight over the sheets dip a spoon in the sugar, and with the 
left hand on a level with the shoulder spin off" the sugar How to Spin 
by shaking the spoon backwards and forwards over the Sugar, 
rolling-pin. The sugar will fall across the rolling-pin in long threads. 
Continue the operation until enough spun sugar is obtained; then cut 
off" the ends which adhere to the baking sheets, and press as required 
into moulds, or shape on the cold slab. When more sugar is required 
for spinning, and that in course of spinning is too firm for use, warm 
the copper pan over a slow fire so that the sugar does not change 
colour. By having two spoons ready for spinning the sugar some advan- 
tage is gained, as the sugar will quickly set firm upon these, and must 
be removed by tapping the spoon upon the table. When one is finished 
with, the other is ready for use, and no time need be lost. If possible 
the spun sugar should be prepared without needing to be rewarmed. 

Besides spinning the sugar ofi" from the spoons in the manner referred 
to, this may be accomi)lished by fastening two forks back to back; or a 
small bundle of wicker sticks or pieces of wire will answer uses of 
the same purpose. The hard sugar may be quickly removed Spun Sugar, 
from these, and either will serve as well as the spoons. Whatever is used 
for this purpose should be warmed before being dipped into the sugar. 
Spun sugar is used for making birds' nests and for finishing many dishes 
of dessert, &c. 

Vol. II. 83 



18 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

CHAPTER VII 

PULLED-SUGAR WORK 

Pulling sugar is a more modern art than spinning. The effect of 
Effect pulling is to produce a bright sheen, and to make the sugar 

of Pulling very crisp and free to eat. Pulled sugar, as used for table 
Sugar. ornaments, flowers, &c., is made with sugar boiled to the hard- 
crack degree. It is worked backwards and forwards until the whole 
Preparation "^^^s becomes silvery, with a rich sheen. To prevent the 
of Pulled sugar from sticking to the slab the latter should be lightly 
^^^^' coated with salad oil or white odourless vaseline, then smoothed 

over with thin paper. Only very slight oiling with either is necessary; 
Preparing if i^ large quantity is used it becomes highly heated by the sugar 
the Slab. j^jj(j burns the hands. In some factories gloves are worn by the 
workmen when pulling the hot sugar. This is not necessary when pre- 
paring small quantities for baskets, 
or for small pulled-sugar leaves for 
ices and other purposes. No fat 
should be rubbed on the hands; 
there is less danger of these blister- 
ing when kept quite dry. While 
pulling the hot sugar the surface 
should not be torn, and if care is 
Fig. 93.-sugar-boiier taken in this respect the hands 

will be less affected by the heat. 
When two or more boilings of sugar are required, sufficient sugar and 
water should be mixed for the lot, with a few drops of acetic acid, and the 
Making whole made into a clear syrup by boiling for a few minutes. 

Stock Syrup Remove the scum, pass all through a hair sieve into a cool pan, 
oi ing. ^^^ ^j^ig ^-jj £qj.j^ ^Yie stock from which each boiling may be 
made. This method is much better than preparing a small quantity of 
sugar and water for each boiling. The stock sugar should be covered 
with a wet cloth to prevent a layer of crystals from forming on the 
surface. 

Measure into a copper sugar-boiler (fig. 93) the quantity of clear syrup 
required, and stand the pan on the stove. Allow to boil as quickly as possible, 
and after a few minutes add the cream of tartar. W^hen the syrup reaches 
a temperature of 312° F. pour at once on the oiled slab. x\fter a few 
moments raise the edges of the sugar and turn these towards the centre. 
Wait for the sugar to cool further, then roll it into a ball and remove 
How to to the coolest part of the slab. Commence pulling by laying 
Pull Sugar. ^}jQ igf^ hand on the sugar and stretching it with the right 
hand. With the right hand holding one end of the sugar bring it over 
to the left, so joining both ends together. Repeat this operation until the 




PULLED-SUGAR WORK 19 

whole mass becomes more solid, when both hands should be employed 
together by pulling out the sugar in a long thin band. By pulling the 
sugar out thin, about 4 to 5 in. wide, it quickly cools, and less pulling 
is required. It is important not to overwork the material Effects of 
during this process, and as little air as possible should be Overworking, 
worked in. If this is done the sheen will quickly leave the sugar, which 
will grain and become useless. The bright sheen, which should How Sheen 
be so pronounced on pulled-sugar articles, is made, not so much '^ Produced, 
by working the sugar on the slab, as in the later operations of shaping and 
handling after leaving the cooling table. 

As soon as the sugar is sufficiently pulled on the slab roll it into a 
ball, place on a wire sieve, and stand this on the oven stock, or over a 
steam-heated iron table similar to the hot tables used in some hotels and 
restaurants. While shaping into fancy forms it should Effects of Over- 
not be overheated. Overheating renders the sugar soft, heating when 
and in consequence easier to handle, but it also causes it 
to grain and set firm like candy. Pieces of the pulled sugar may be 
slio-htly warmed by holding them over the flame of a small spirit lamp. 
The sugar is moved to and fro, so that no part becomes overheated and 
sticky. 

When coloured sugar is required use those colours that are in powder 
form, and dissolve in boiling water. Weak colours should not be used, 
as they lower the temperature and the gravity of the sugar. Colouring 
The colouring matter may be added to the boiling sugar a few *^^ Sugar, 
moments before it is sufficiently boiled or directly it is poured on the 
slab. If suitable colours are employed this is the best method to follow. 
The best colours for boiled - sugar work are aniline use of Powdered 
powders. These are more expensive than some others Amhne Colours, 
used by confectioners, but are of exceptional quality. The powder is 
soluble in boiling water and very powerful, two or three drops being 
sufficient to colour 2 lb. of sugar. As these are very bright they are 
worth the extra cost. 

Flowers made with pulled sugar are more effective in appearance than 
those prepared with royal icing or marzipan paste. They are, on account 
of the sugar quickly setting firm, more difficult to prepare. Keeping Pulled- 
To retain the gloss or sheen which gives them such a showy Sugar Goods, 
appearance, it is necessary to keep them in an air-tight glass case. These 
flowers ())• Irives, which may be made in the quiet season, will reinain hard 
and retain the sheen if carefully stored in tin boxes, made with a reservoir 
for (juicklime at the bottom. The lime absorbs the moisture, and keeps the 
air in the box extremely dry. Built baskets, and other pieces made and 
stored in glass cases for showing in the shop window^ will remain firm and 
retain some of their freshness when small hard pieces of lime are placed 
in the case under cover. 

The preparation of roses, the shaping and curling of the petals, and the 
building of the separate pieces together are almost the same for pulled 



20 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 

sugar as for marzipan paste. These flowers may be made with three petals 
or more as required, and fastened together when shaped, or placed in posi- 
tion when hard, by rewarming the lower part of each petal over the spirit 
lamp. For the centre of the rose, pull a piece of sugar with the thumb 
and forefinger of the right hand, and break this oft" short without leaving 
a long sugar thread hanging to it. With the fingers of both hands shape 
the piece round, and with a thin edge. Press this in the centre, and fold 
over to bring the thin edges almost together to represent the centre of a 
rose just beginning to open. Arrange three small leaves or petals slightly 
Building up higher than the bud, and outside of these fasten four or five 
Sugar Roses, others as required. It is well to remember when making the 
roses to have the sides bulging. Fasten the lower parts of the petals so as 
to leave the other edge standing out from the bud. As each of the flowers 
is prepared, stand these halfway into plain cutters to keep the petals from 
falling out of shape. A fine effect may be produced by working two 
coloured pieces of sugar together for these flowers. By pulling yellow 
sugar with a piece of pink one-third the size, a delicate and natural blend- 
ing is made. 

As soon as the art of pulling and shaping the flower petals is mastered, 
very little knowledge is required to fix these in shape. Where possible, a 
Natural Flowers real flower should be employed as a pattern, more especially 
as Models. when making flowers with various-coloured centres, such 

as orchids, lilies, and others. Mounting the flowers on pieces of wire is 
necessary when making floral vases or baskets. With this accomplished, 
they may be arranged in any position by bending the wire. Prepared 
pieces of wire covered with green paper or cloth may be procured for this 
Preparing and purpose, or ordinary wire will answer if it is covered with 
Fixing Stems, green sugar. It is necessary, when fixing the flowers, either 
to make the piece of wire hot and then force it into the flower, or to 
make the hole first and then press in the wire covered with hot boiled 
sugar. 

To make the flowers more effective, green pulled-sugar leaves are neces- 
sary. These require to . be made thin, and may be pressed upon shapes 
Moulding made of lead or plaster. Where these shapes cannot be ob- 
Leaves. tained, shape the pulled sugar, and while this is soft press upon 
the surface with the finger nail to form the veins of the leaves. When 
shaping holly and other leaves, it is necessary to cut the sugar with a pair 
of scissors to the desired shape. 











PULLED SUGAR AND NOUGAT CENTRE PIECES 



PULLED-SUGAR ARTICLES AND BUILT MERINGUES 



21 



CHAPTER VIII 

PULLED-SUGAR ARTICLES AND BUILT MERINGUES 

Constructing baskets and other fancy articles with pulled sugar, as 
shown on the coloured plate, Pulled-Sugar and Nougat Centre Pieces, 
is a branch of art neglected by most British confectioners. These are 
very effective for table decoration. The bright sheen on the sugar, pre- 
pared with fine colours, looks delicate and rich. Pulled-sugar ornaments 
look much neater than those made with nougat or marzipan paste. 

The wicker baskets shown on the plate are made by bending lengths 
of pulled sugar round wooden skewers, which are fixed Building of 
upright in a thick piece of board. To make these baskets Sugar Baskets, 
of any shape required, it is necessary to have small holes drilled into a 
thick piece of w^ood cut to the shape 
desired. Special prepared sugar 
stands can be made, on which up- 
right sticks of sugar have been fas- 
tened. As the former method of 
preparing baskets with a wooden 
frame is the less difficult of the two, 
instructions are given accordingly 
(fig. 94). 

On a thick piece of smooth board 
mark with a pencil the pattern re- 
quired, and drill in an odd number of small holes 1 in. apart, 
surface with a thin coating of vaseline, and in each of the holes 
place a wooden skewer about the thickness of a pencil. These 
should be quite round (small penholders suit very well for this 
purpose, and they may be bought for a few pence). With a soft brush cover 
these sticks with vaseline. The frame is then ready to receive the sugar. 
As it is necessary to work close to the oven, fix a small table in position; 
pull out pieces of sugar about 24 in. long as thick as an ordinary lead 
pencil, and twist this round the sticks as in basket-making. As one layer 
of sugar is placed above another it should be gently pressed down with 
the fingers. Prepare another length of sugar, warm one end in the flame 
of a spirit lamp, and twist round the sticks. Continue this operation until 
the wicker-work reaches to within 1 in. of the top. Another method 
which is more simple, but not so effective, is to twist the sugar round the 
sticks, while it is being pulled and shaped by an assistant. The objection 
to this plan is that the band of sugar has not time to set firm before 
the next layer is placed above it. The finished article in consequence has 
a clumsy, uneven appearance. 

Sugar boiled to the hard-crack degree, and pulled into lengths when 
nearly cold, requires quick and careful handling to prevent breaking; but 




Fig. 94.— Stand with Pegs for Uuikliiig Sugar Basket 



Cover the 

Instructions 
for Basket- 
making. 



22 



ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY 



this i? the condition in which it should be pulled to obtain perfect finish. 
Finishing When the round bands of sugar are all in position and set, 
the Baskets, then remove the sticks; gently raise the basket and place 
on a silver dish, or on a prepared base of sugar. Fasten in small sticks of 
sugar to replace those removed, and cover the border with a band of rope- 
shaped sugar, as shown on the oval basket in the plate. Make the handles 
with pieces of twisted sugar, and decorate with flowers, leaves, and ribbon 
bows all made of the same material. When preparing high handles on the 
baskets for exhibition pui-poses, these may be made stronger by twisting 
the sugar round a piece of wire. Shape the wire as required, pull out long 
pieces of sugar, and fold this evenly over the wire. Needless to say, the 
wire must not be seen in the finished handle. 

On the top right corner of the coloured plate a basket is shown with 
the lid partly open. This cover was made on a row of skewers, stand- 
B k w'th ^^^ upright; the pieces of pulled sugar were twisted between 
Lid Partly these. When finished, these were replaced with sticks of 
P^"" sugar with a rope-shaped piece fastened round the border. 

This basket was filled with sugar flowers — roses, fuchsias, violets, and lilies. 
The cover was then placed in position, and the right-hand corner decorated 
with a large lily and leaves. 

The four-handled basket shown on the plate was made by a diflerent 
method from that just described. The base (fig. 95) is prepared as follows. 
Four-handled A wire frame, about 10 in. square, is laid on the slab about 
Basket. 1 jjj thick. Fill in with sugar boiled to the hard -crack 

degree, and when this has cooled suflSciently to handle, fold over each 

corner towards the centre. To 
that 



ensure tnat these are the same 
height, place a small jar or bottle 
under each loop of sugar, upon 
which it may cool. While these 
corners are setting firm, prepare 
a long band of sugar, 3 to 3i in. 
wide, and shape in position round 
a greased cake hoop or jar. When this has set firm, fasten in position, as 
shown in the illustration, with hot sugar. Shape two handles on the slab, 
both the same length and width, by pulling the sugar round the base of 
a jam jar on the slab. Fasten one of the handles to the base of clear 
sugar, and cut the other in two pieces with a hot knife. Fix as shown 
in the illustration. Decorate the handles with violets and leaves. On 
each corner of the basket there are lilies and various coloured roses. The 
sugar base may be prepared without a wire frame by using glace royal 
to make the shape. Pencil the square shape on the slab, fill a paper cornet 
with icing, and pipe four lines over the pencil marks. When this has 
partly dried, pour in the hot sugar. Before shaping in position it is 
necessary to scrape off the dried sugar icing. 

The fancy-shaped flower pot shown on the top left corner of the plate 




Fig. 95.— Base of Four-handled Basket 



PULLED-SUGAR ARTICLES AND BUILT MERINGUES 



23 



was prepared by fixing together pieces of pulled sugar. Four small pieces 
were fastened at each corner of the base, to which a thick Fancy 
square piece of sugar had to be joined. Small sugar leaves Flower Pot. 
were used to cover up where each piece had been put together, and further 
decorated with red roses. The centre was filled with spun sugar after the 
flowers and leaves had been placed in position. 

The sugar slipper shown on the coloured plate is made by cutting 
with sharp scissors the various shapes required, as shown in tig. 96, and 
joining them together with the smallest possible quantity 
of melted sugar. The pulled-sugar body of the slipper 
should not be thick, but pulled out as thin as possible without breaking. 





Front of Slipper 



Bottom of Slipper 



Back of Slipper 
Fig. 96.— Templets for Sugar Slipper 



Take a piece of sugar and pull it to the size required for the sole of the 
slipper, lay this on a greased templet made of cardboard, trim with a pair 
of scissors, and, if convenient, bend this over a wooden last turned upside 
down and press in position. The most difficult piece to shape and cut to 
pattern is the front portion of the slipper. While the sugar is pliable, 
shape this over the last, and remove before it sets firm. Prepare and 
shape the next piece for the back, and join all together with clear hot 
sugar. Cut and fix a piece of sugar to represent the heel, decorate the 
front with small flowers, and place on either side a small bow of ribbon 
sugar. This slipper may be filled with chocolates and other bonbons, and 
used at a wedding luncheon as a table decoration. 

When there is not time or opportunity to prepare pulled-sugar orna- 
ments, Built Meringues are frequently used. These were at one time 
greatly in vogue, but now, owing to the introduction of other y^^^ ^ 
kinds of gateaux and pieces mont(5es, they are only seen on Keep stock 
rare occasions. With little trouble or expense some varieties enngues. 
may be prepared and kept in stock ready for filling with cream or 



24 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

mixed fruits. These should be stored in air-tight boxes, and, if possible, 
in a warm cupboard to keep dry. Several specimens of these meringues 
are shown on the plate of Built Meringues. They were prepared with 
a mixture of cold meringue laid out in various shapes on greased paper 
and dried in a warm cupboard. They were then fastened together with 
meringue, and finished, as shown, in the form of beehives, baskets, 
boxes, &c. 

To obtain the correct shapes for building the pieces of meringue 
How to Pre- together, the outline of each should be pencilled off on greased 
pare Shapes, paper, which may be then covered with the mixture with the 
bag and tube. 

The body of the two beehives consists of rings of meringue of the 
required sizes dried and placed together, then covered with meringue 
Building coloured yellow, and further dried. The decoration was fur- 
Beehives, nished with small marzipan flowers and leaves made of the same 
material. Others shown on the plate were also prepared in sections, placed 
together and piped with glace royal or meringue. 

Meringue Meringue boxes are useful for filling with chocolates or other 

Boxes. bonbons, either for table decoration or for sale at the Christmas 
season. 



CHAPTER IX 

MARKONS GLACES AND CARAMEL FRUITS 

Preserving marrons glaces (glazed chestnuts) is very interesting work, 
and may be made quite profitable, especially where a high-class trade is 
done. The marrons, being served up in paper cases, are 
very often placed with other preserved fruits, chocolates, 
and fondants upon buffet, supper, luncheon, and dinner tables. These are 
sold at a good price over the counter, and the broken pieces which are made 
during the preserving process may be used by the confectioner for flavour- 
ing his ices, creams, or petits fours glaces, or for making up several kinds 
of entremets. Early in the season choose some fine large Italian chestnuts, 
and remove the outer skin without cutting the kernel. Cook the nuts 
gently in boiling water until they become soft, but they must not be over- 
cooked and broken. The boilings should not be large. When ready, 
remove from the fire, pour off the water, and cover them with fresh 
boiling water. Remove the second skin from the nuts by lifting it ofi" with 
a small knife. This second skinning must be done while the nuts are hot, 
so that only a few nuts should be taken from the boiling water at once. 
Density of H^^e ready a pan of hot syrup registering on the sacchar- 
Syrup for ometer 16 degrees, into which the nuts should be dropped. 
Preserving, pjg^gg ^j^g bowl containing the syrup and nuts over a steady 
fire, and allow to simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Drop into the syrup 




BUILT MERINGUHS 



MARRONS GLACES AND CARAMEL FRUITS 



25 



one or two split vanilla beans, and lay on top a piece of cartridge paper 
with a small hole cut out of the centre to allow the steam to escape. Store 
away till the next day, when the same process of heating should be 
repeated. The preserving should go on for four or five consecutive days, 
until the nuts are saturated through with the syrup. At this stage the 
syrup should have a density of 35 to 36 degrees, when the nuts density of 
may be kept stored in this thick syrup in a cool place, or may Syrup for 
be sterilized at once in tins soldered down, or in bottles made to'"'"^- 
perfectly air-tight. In tliis state they should keep for years. The pieces 




Fig. 97.— Paper Cases 

may be dried off or kept in syrup ready for using. Where possible, the 
nuts should be lifted carefully from the syrup previous to each boiling, 
placed upon hair sieves to drain, and gently dropped into the syrup as soon 
as it begins to boil. When storing these marrons glaces in jars without 
sterilizing, add a little glucose to the syrup at the last use of Glucose 
boiling. To prepare the marrons glaces for the counter or '" Preserving, 
table, they should be coated with vanilla syrup. Boil up some clear syrup 
containing a split vanilla bean to the blow, 235° F., slightly grain by 
rubbing some of the syrup on the side of the pan with a Finishing 
wooden spatula or spoon, then scrape this down into tiie Marrons Glacis, 
syrup, and mix all together. Gently drop in the marrons glac(5s a few at 
a time, and quickly lift out with a brass fork; lay tiiem upon wire trays, 
stand in a drying oven for a few minutes, when it will be found that the 
nuts are coated with clear dry sugar. They are then ready for laying in 
paper cases (fig. 97). 



Vol. II 



64 



26 SWEETS AND ENTRExMETS 

Caramel Oranges 

Take some sound oranges, remove all rind, and trim with a small 
sharp knife so that the inner skin of the fruit is clear and not broken. 
Prenarine Separate the fruit into quarters, and lay these on a papered 
Oranges tray to dry for a few hours; if required, colour half the 

arame . oranges with carmine by rubbing this on with a camel-hair 
brush. For the caramel covering boil some sugar to the hard -crack 
degree, remove this from the stove, dip in the oranges, lift them out 
with a dipping fork, and lay them on an oiled slab to cool. The fruit 
should only carry sufficient sugar to cover them. When raising the 
fruit from the sugar, the fork, or whatever utensil is used for dipping, 
should not be drawn over the edge of the pan, as the sugar running off 
back into the pan may cause the mass to gi-ain. 

Pyramid of Oranges 

A pyramid of oranges or any kind of mixed fruits may be built up 
around a cone-shaped or charlotte mould, and just before serving up at 
Pyramid of table should have whipped cream tilled in the centre. 

Caramel Oranges, 'pjjg fruits must all be dipped in caramel sugar and 
allowed to set, then joined together with the smallest quantity of hot 
Croquenbouche sugar. Another name for this pyramid of fruits is cro- 
of Fruit. quenbouche of fruit, and the base upon which the fruit 

is built consists of chou paste dipped in sugar and covered with chopped 
pistachio nuts. This may be made more effective by placing a vase of 
spun sugar on top. 

Caramel Walnuts 

Take some shelled walnuts perfectly fresh and of good shape. Prepare 
three pieces of marzipan paste, one pale green, another pink, and another 
Caramel white. Roll the paste up into small round shapes the size of 
Walnuts, a large cherry, and use these for sandwiching the nuts together. 
Dip the walnuts in caramel sugar, and if required to mix with petits 
fours glaces, or fondants for the table, serve them up in small paper cases. 

Caramel Preserved Fruits 

These are preserved mixed fruits cut into small pieces and decorated 
with coloured marzipan paste placed on in the shape of small leaves, 
knots, &c., and dipped into caramel sugar. 

Caramel Prunes 

Carefully remove the stones from a number of the prunes by cutting 
the fruit open on one side, and fill up with a piece of white, pink, or 
Caramel pale-green marzipan paste. Slightly press the fruit together. 
Prunes, leaving part of the marzipan paste showing, and dip all into 
caramel sugar. These fruits also look attractive if filled with stiff apricot 
jam, a little of which is forced out at the side where the prune has been 



MARRONS GLACfiS AND CARAMEL FRUITS 27 

cut. They are then rolled in souie chopped almonds before covering with 
sugar. 

Caramel Strawbeuries 

Choose some fresh, well -shaped, sound strawberries, and cover them 
with a thin coating of caramel sugar, which may be done cleanly and 
well by holding the green stem of the fruit with a pair caramel 
of nippers. After dipping they are allowed to cool on the Strawberries, 
marble slab. The stems should on no account be removed when dipping 
the fruit, or else the juice coming out will spoil the sugar. Small short- 
paste cases, half or three-quarters filled with plain cream, with one of 
these strawberries placed in the centre, make an attractive confection, 
which looks well on a dish for table or counter. 

Caramel Grapes 

Caramel grapes are coated with sugar in the same way as the straw- 
berries. One black and one white grape, placed in a small nougat caramel 
basket, make an effective contrast. Grapes. 

For dipping various kinds of fruit into caramel sugar, especially those 
which are dry, such as prunes, forced walnuts, preserved fruits decorated 
with marzipan paste, small pieces of wire, 3 to 3i in. in wires for 
length, should be kept in stock. When using these, stick I^'PPing Fruits. 
a piece of wire into each piece of fruit, and as soon as these are dipped 
into the sugar, have a wicker sieve turned upside down, and stick the 
pieces of wire all round this, allowing the fruit to hang over the sides. 
This method not only saves time, but is much better in many respects 
than the method of laying them on the slab as soon as Finishing 
dipped, as it is cleaner and saves the sugar. Cut off' what Dipped Fruits, 
little sugar may be hanging to the fruit with a pair of scissors, then pull 
off from the wire and place in paper cases. 

Disguised Chestnuts 

Disguised chestnuts are made by pounding broken pieces of marron 
glac^ in a mortar, then passing all through a fine wire sieve and 
mixing with it some cream, vanilla sugar, and a little kirsch. Disguised 
This paste is then shaped up into small pieces about the Chestnuts, 
same size and shape as an ordinary chestnut. Into the back (or flat 
top) of each piece stick a thin wooden skewer. Boil up to the hard- 
crack degree some caramel sugar, to which some unsweetened chocolate or 
caramel colouring has been added, and dip each chestnut into the sugar, 
leaving only the top of the nut paste uncovered. After dipping, hold 
several of the skewers in the hand at one time with the nuts hanging 
down until the sugar has set; then they may be laid upon a marble slab 
to cool. When set, cut off the long pieces of sugar which may be hanging 
from the points of each, remove the akewei-s, fill up the holes caused by 
these with some of the chestnut cream, and finish by dipping this part 



28 



SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 



of the nut paste on to some cocoa powder. These are served in paper 

cases. 

Caramel Cherries 

These cherries are generally kept in stock in jars of brandy, and 
when required for dipping into caramel sugar they are laid on a clean 
Caramel Brandy cloth and dried in a warm cupboard for a few hours 
Cherries. before being covered. The stalks must be left in the 

fruit. Each cherry should be dipped into the sugar so that all the fruit 
is covered with the caramel. As they are dipped, lay them on an oiled 
slab, and when the sugar has set place them in small paper cases. 



CHAPTER X 

FONDANTS, CREAMS, CRYSTALLIZED FRUITS, ETC. 

It is the usual practice for most confectioners to buy factory-made 
sweets such as crystallized fondants, fruits, marzipan shapes, chocolate 




Fig. 98.— MouMs for Fondant Shapes in Starch 

creams, and liqueur drops. The object of wu-iting these notes is to assist 
those who feel inclined to try to make these goods for themselves. Others 
who already do so may be able to pick up a few hints that \\\\\ make 
their task easier and more profit- 

For the manufacture of high- 
class crystallized fondants in small 
quantities few new utensils are 
necessary. Most of these, such 
Utensils ^^ copper or enamel 
for Making saucepans, bain-marie, 
Fondants. j^^^j^ ^-^^^^^ ^^^ ^.p_ 

ping forks, are in daily use. 
Starch trays (fig. 99) made of 
smooth wood, about 30 by 15| in. 
and IJ in. deep, should be spe- 
cially made, and provided with blocks about | in. thick at the bottom 
corners, which serve as feet and separate the trays when they are packed 
up upon each other. Other requirements are: several dozen fancy-shaped 
chalk moulds (fig. 100), a pair of bellows, a broad hair brush, crystallizing 
pans (fig. 103), with wire trays, a funnel and stick for filling purposes 




Fig. 99.— Staixli Tray for Moulding Fondants 



FONDANTS, CREAMS, CRYSTALLIZED FRUITS, ETC. 



29 



(fig. 101). For the preparation ot* fondants, rubber moulds may be used 
in preference to starch trays. The former are much cleaner, but are 




expensive when several have to be purchased. The advantage gained by 
their use in preference to starch for fondants is that no powder has to 
be used, and the creams leave the moulds clear and ready for crystallization 

or dropping, whereas those moulded in the 
starch need brushing and blowing with the 
bellows to remove any powder adhering to 
them. Those who ai'e anxious to manufacture 
these goods apart from their ordinary work 
of flour confectionery should, besides working 
with the starch trays, procure two or three 
sheets of rubber moulds for making quickly 
prepared fondants. 

Although a separate branch of the trade, 
the preparation of these sweets (bonbons) is 
easily accomplished by those who desire to be 
in the front rank among those Profitable 
confectioners who have during Sweet-making, 
the last few years found this work moat profit- 
able. Formerly this work was entirely in the 
hands of continental confectioners, who owned or managed some of the 
best houses in this country. As there is a tendency on the part of the 
public who can aflford to pay, to buy chocolate and other confectionery 




rig. 101. -Filling Funnel for Fondants 



30 



SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 



r\ 



r\ 



which is prepared on tlie premises, this branch of confectionery work 
must not be overlooked, and is certainly worth learning. 

Fondants prepared for crystallization are made as follows. Fill the 
wooden trays with starch powder which is quite dry and has been 
Making of previously sifted through a fine sieve. Level with a smooth 
Fondants, ij^r of wood, and mould the impressions with chalk moulds 
fastened in rows on wood, as shown in fig. 98. Each line made in the 
starch powder should be at least half an inch from its neighbours. To 
prevent any of the shapes being spoiled, the pressing or moulding must 
be done lightly; otherwise extra pressure will cause the powder to blow 
up. Place in a saucepan some fondant in which a little cream of tartar 
has been used while boiling, or with 1 lb. less glucose 
than is given for fondant used for covering purposes 
(see Vol, I, p. 829), and boiled to a temperature of 
248'' F. Make hot over the bain-marie: colour and 
flavour as required; reduce with stock syrup if too 
stiff to run smoothly. To fill the moulds, warm the 
funnel and fill with the hot sugar, and hold this over 
the moulds in the starch. By slightly raising the 
stick, the end of which fills the point of the nozzle, 
sufficient fondant is allowed to flow out into each 
cavity. To prevent the fondant from setting firm 
in the funnel, this should be quickly used while hot. 
When each tray is finished, stand these in a warm 
(but not hot) drying cupboard for a few hours. 

Clear syrup is required for crystallizing. Boil 
sugar and water together as for stock syrup (see 
Syrup for Vol. I, p. 334), Using 1 pt. water to each 

Crystallizing, pound of sugar. Needless to say, the 

syrup for this purpose should be clean and free from sugar crystals after 
removing the scum. Stand the saccharometer (fig. 102) in the boiling 
syrup; when this registers a density of 31° remove the pan from the 
stove. On the hot sugar lay a piece of paper witli a small hole cut out 
of the centre, and place in a cool part of the bakery until required for 
use. W^hile cooling the syrup, neither this nor the pan should be dis- 
turbed; otherwise the sugar will grain and become useless for crj'stallizing. 
It is not necessary that this should be quite cold before using, but cooled 
enough not to grain while using, and not so hot as to soften the fondants. 




Fig. 102.— Sacoharometers 



Crystallizing Fondants 



To prepare the fondants for covering with the syrup, turn tliese out 
from the starch trays into a wire sieve. Remove all powder from tiie 
The Crystallizing creams by sifting, blowing with the bellows, and lightly 
of Fondants. brushing with a soft hair brush. Pack these close 

together in the crystallizing pans (see fig. 103), cover with a wire tray, and 



FONDANTS, CREAMS, CRYSTALLIZED FRUITS, ETC. 



31 



-finish as follows. If the syrup is ready, and cooled sufficiently, remove 
the paper covering and any crystals which may have formed, and pour 
enough over the fondants in each tray to cover them completely. What- 
ever utensil is used for transferring the syrup should not be drawn over 
the side of the pan. The vibration set up by doing this is likely to cause 
the syrup to grain and set firm in the pan. When all are covered, store 
away for ten to twelve hours in the warmest part of the bakery, and 
cover with a damp cloth. To prevent any danger of graining the syrup, 
it would be wise to place the trays before filling in the position where 
they are to remain for the time stated. Within ten hours the syrup 
may be drained off' by removing a small screw at the end of the crystal- 
lizing pan. The fondants may then be taken out, placed on hair sieves, 
and stored in a warm cupboard. These should not be taken from the 
cupboard until quite dry, when all over their surfaces there should be 
a covering of fine bright sugar 
crystals. When a specially thick 
coating of these crystals is de- 
sired, it is necessary to leave 
the fondants longer in the syrup. 
With this preparation there need 
be no waste of material. All 
sugar left in the pans should be 
removed and made into stock 
syrup, but not used again for 
the purpose of crystallizing. 

It is usual to flavour the fondants with various kinds of fruit essences, 
liqueurs, and vanilla syrup, and to colour the fondant in the first case 
with the colours usually associated with the distinctive flavours. Vanilla 
syrup is prepared by soaking eight or ten large vanilla beans in 1 qt. of hot 
stock syrup. Needless, perhaps, to say, the bottle should be Flavouring 
corked, and after a few days the syrup will be ready to use. °^ Fondants. 
Flavouring thus prepared is better than vanilla essence coloured with 
caramel, especially if it is to be used with white fondant. After the 
flavouring has been partly extracted from the beans, these may be dried 
and pounded with lump sugar, to be used afterwards as vanilla sugar 
for other flavouring purposes. 

Crystallizing Prunes 

Crystallized prunes make a nice assortment of confectionery. They 
are attractive and useful for mixing with fondants. Prepare and force 
some prunes with marzipan pjuste, white, pink, and green (see Crystallized 
*' Caramel Prunes" on p. 26); place in crystallizing pans Prunes, 
and cover with syrup of 35°. Allow to remain covered for twelve hours; 
then finish as described for fondants. The almond (marzipan) ptiste used 
for the.se fruits should be highly flavoured with licjueurs, such as kirsch, 
Tnara.schino, noyau, or cura(;oa. W^hen the cost of production is considered, 




Fig. 103— Crystallizing Pan for Fondants 



32 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

the surprise is that more of these fruits are not prepared in this manner. 
The crystallized prune or other fruit mixture may be placed in paper 
cases, and mixed with other fruits for table display; or may be displayed 
on silver plates and exhibited with fondants and mixed chocolates. 

Marzipan Shapes 

Marzipan shapes may be made in plaster moulds or shaped between 
the hands. Two small useful moulds for this purpose are those for shaping 
Marzipan green almonds and cockles. The former confections are prepared 
Shapes. ]jy flavouring marzipan paste with kirsch and orange -flower 
water, and colouring with " Breton " green. The paste is pinned out to 
^ in. thick, and the required number of pieces cut out with a |-in. plain 
cutter. The pieces are then covered with an inverted pan, to prevent 
them from drying. The two halves of the plaster mould are dusted 
with corn flour. Two of the small rounds of paste are pressed one into 
each half of the mould. With a camel's-hair brush wet one piece, and 
lay on this a small blanched almond and almost close the two sides of 
the plaster mould. When the moulds are opened the shape of the almond 
will be complete; both pieces of paste will be almost closed, with the 
blanched nut showing between. Little practice is necessary to prepare 
these goods, and, with the paste cut to the size required, they are quickly 
made. Another method whereby these may be prepared without using 
a mould is to roll the paste between the hands to resemble as nearly as 
possible that of the almond. Wliile holding this between the thumb 
and forefinger, make an incision along the centre, and press in a split or 
whole blanched almond. To crystallize these, cover with syrup 32°, and 
finish as for fondants. 

The other mould referred to is for preparing small cockles. The 
marzipan paste for this purpose should be flavoured with 
rose water and orange zest, and coloured with yellow 
" Breton " paste. It is pinned out as explained above and stamped out 
the size required. Fill in each half of the mould, brush over with syrup 
or water, add a small bright cherry, and finish as described for green 
almonds. These small confections will then be ready for crystallizing. 
With a variety of moulds many fancy shapes may be prepared in the 
same manner, and crystallized with syrup as described. 

Centres for Chocolates 

Centres for covering with chocolate " coverture " are made of soft 

and hard material. Some of those that are most popular are 
Chocolates. . . . 

prepared with rich-flavoured fondant used alone, or along with 

crushed caramel nougat or chopped mixed fruit. Other kinds of soft 
centres are made with marzipan paste, fruit jelly, or nougat montelimar, 
and various pastes made with roasted almonds or hazel nuts. 

Before describing the method of preparing these centres some instruc- 
tion is necessary as to the manner of using the covering chocolate. This 



FONDANTS, CREAMS, CRYSTALLIZED FRUITS, ETC. 33 

is most important and needs great care. If made too hot it will turn 
white and be spotted with dark specks when cold, thus The Covering 
becoming unsaleable. On the other hand, it must not be Chocolate, 
used cold; where the chocolate takes a long time to dry, the various 
ingredients in the mixture separate, and dry a bad colour. As a sign 
whether the dipping chocolate is in proper order, it should be noted 
that when dipping the various centres, and transferring the covered 
chocolates to pieces of grease-proof paper, the first piece should be dry 
by the time the fourth or fifth piece has been dipped. By adopting this 
principle failure may be avoided. When working with these goods, care 
must be taken that no steanj, or draught, should on any account be 
brought into contact with the chocolates, as either will seriously affect 
them. 

The centres are marked with chocolate coating by means of wire 
dips, some in the shape of small brass forks, or made Coating Centres 
with a small ring at the end (fig. 104). Besides being with chocolate, 
useful for dipping purposes, the end is used for forming small scrolls of 
chocolate on top of the covered articles. 

There are two ways of preparing fondant centres for chocolate creams. 




Fig. 104.— Dipping Wire for Fondants 

First, the fondant may be made firm by working into it sufficient icing 
sugar to make a tight dough. Add flavour and colour as Preparation of 
required, and mould into various shapes with the hands. Fondant Centres. 
Place away to dry and use as requij-ed. This method, for several reasons, 
does not give satisfaction, and is detrimental to the eating qualities of 
the cream. The other and better method is to mould the hot fondant 
in starch powder, or in rubber moulds, as when preparing fondants 
for crystallization. Fancy- shaped moulds should be avoided for this 
purpose, on account of the difficulty in covering with chocolate. It is 
essential that the goods prepared for coverin- should be perfectly dry 
and free from starch powder. 

To prepare the cliocolate for covering, place into a small pan the 
quantity of chocolate required, and slowly dissolve over a bain-marie. 
Stii- occasionally with a wire fork to prevent the fat from Preparation of 
separating, and begin to cover the fondant creams by drop- *^^ Chocolate, 
ping them one or two at a time into the chocolate and lifting out with the 
wire dip. Place these i\s covered on pieces of paper about 8 by 10 in., and 
form a small scroll on the top of each. After a few have been covered, 
ascertain whether these are drying with a glossy surface. If the chocolate 
shows signs of being too warm allow it to cool, while stirring with the 
dipping tool. Finish the chocolates by placing something on top to indicate 
the flavour inside. Pistachios, almonds, walnuts, hazel nuts, violets, crystal- 

VOL. II. 65 



34 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

lized rose leaves, are some indicators of the kind which may be used for 
this purpose. As some centres require a thinner coating of chocolate than 
others, cocoa butter, in the proportion of 1|^ oz. of butter to 2 lb. of chocolate, 
should be used for mixing with the " coverture ". 

When it is possible to melt the chocolate gradually in a warm dry 
Danger of cupboard, there is less danger of overheating than when it 
Overheating, jg placed directly over the bain - marie, and overheating is 
probably the con)monest cause of faulty finish. 

For Nougat Creams, weigh on the slab ]. lb. of marzipan paste; add 
a little icing sugar, 8 oz. of crushed caramel nougat; make 
all into a stiff dough, and shape in small pieces. Allow 
these to dry for a few hours, and then cover with chocolate. Another 
kind of nougat cream is made by passing hard nougat between granite 
rollers until it becomes soft, then flavouring it with vanilla, and moulding 
in various shapes. These pieces should be made small, and rolled in crushed 
nougat previously passed through a fine wire sieve, then put to dry and 
afterwards coated with chocolate. 

For Hard Nougat Centres, prepare a mixing of caramel nougat 
Hard Nougat (Chap. V, p. 15), and while hot transfer to the greased slab. 
Centres. j^qU out in long pieces, and with a sharp knife cut these 

into small shapes. Cover in the usual manner, and place on the centre 
of the top of each sweet some roasted almonds. 

Pralin4e Centres for chocolate covering are prepared much in the 

_ .. , _ same way as caramel nougat. Roast 1 lb. of clean 

Pr£ilin66 Ocntrcs 

unblanched almonds. Rub these on a coarse wire sieve, 

and mix with 12 oz. of melted castor sugar. Place the pan on the 
stove, and add two vanilla beans. Continue to keep these ingredients 
mixed, until the sugar is of a dark-brown colour. Turn out on the 
slab, and when cold, crush between the granite rollers, or pound with 
a pestle and mortar; pass all through a coarse sieve, and use for mixing 
with marzipan or fondant. 

Fruit Centres are frequently used for covering with chocolate. These 
. may be mixed with other ingredients or used alone. Pre- 

served ginger is cut into small squares and" dried before 
covering with chocolate. That bought in jars is best for this purpose. 
The syrup with which it has been preserved may be used for making 
ginger fondant creams. 

Among the many varieties of soft and hard centres prepared for these 
chocolates, those made with liqueurs occupy a premier 
position. With the liquid centre they require very 
careful handling. These may be prepared as follows. Boil to the soft- 
ball degree the quantities of sugar and water required. No cream of 
tartar or glucose should be added. Remove from the stove, and while 
adding the flavouring essence, mix this and the hot syrup together while 
shaking the pan; but no utensil should be used for stirring, as this 
may result in the sugar graining. Cover with a damp cloth and allow 




A THRhE-TlER WbDDlNG CAKE 



JELLIES 35 

DO lie for fifteen to twenty minutes; then fill into shapes moulded in 
starch powder. Cover with a thin coating of starch sifted through a 
hair sieve, and place in a drying cupboard for twenty-four hours. The 
funnel and stick already described is the best implement for filling the 
starch moulds with the syrup. Any crystals that may have formed 
on the syrup while cooling should be removed without disturbing the 
sugar more than is necessary. 

For covering these soft centres with chocolate, they should be quite 
free from any of the starch from the moulds. This Preparation of Soft 
may be removed by careful sifting. The soft hair Centres for Covering, 
brush should also be used for this cleansing. Cover with the chocolate 
and finish as required. 



CHAPTER XI 

JELLIES 

Formerly calves' feet were alone used in high-class shops for the 
preparation of sweet jelly. In some establishments this was sold in 
jars, and retailed at high prices. Besides its value as a food Calves'-Foot 
for invalids, the preparation, sold at a fancy price, yielded J^^^y- 
far more profit than can now be obtained from that prepared with 
gelatine. Customers had great faith in its nutritive value, and were 
prepared to pay high prices for the calves'-foot jelly made by confec- 
tioners. The preparation is now more or less factory-made, put in glass 
bottles, and sold in most grocers' shops. 

To prepare the genuine jelly, take the required number of calves' 
feet, cleanse by careful washing, joint them, place all into a stock-pot, 
cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. A thick scum preparation 
will rise to the surface, which may be removed with a spoon, of Calves' - 
or, better still, by throwing away the boiling liquor and °°^ J^ y- 
covering the feet with fresh water at the same temperature. The stock 
should simmer at the side of the stove for ten to twelve hours, and 
should then be strained through a hair sieve and allowed to set firm. 
Three medium-size feet should make 5 qt. of stock, the strength of which 
may be ascertained by cooling some of this in a small mould placed on 
ice before the whole is removed from the fire. Where this does not set 
firm, add to the boiling stock a small quantity of isinglass. It is 
essential to have the clear stock set in a firm jelly, which will permit 
of the oil being washed off with hot water; also to make allowance for 
the addition of other ingredients, such as lemon juice, wines, or spirits. 

To prepare sweet jelly from the stock, remove the oil from the surface 
with hot water, and then with kitchen paper. Transfer to Recipe for 
another pan kept expressly for the purpose, place over a Sweet Jelly. 
slow fire, and dissolve gradually. To 5 qt of stock add the zest of 



36 



SWEETS. AND ENTREMETS 



5 lemons, the juice of 10, 2 lb. of lump sugar, 5 bay leaves, 12 cloves, 
10 whites and shells of eggs, a piece of stick cinnamon, and a little crushed 
coriander seed. Bring slowly to the boil, then remove to the side of the 
stove, cover with a cloth, and allow to remain for ten minutes. Prepare 
Straining *^^® J^Hy-bag, place under this a clean pan, and have another 
through a in readiness. Pour in the jelly, and as it runs into the pan, 
Je y- ag. pour back into the bag until it runs through quite clear. Close 
the cupboard (fig. 105) to keep the liquor warm, and in the course of an 
hour or so all will have passed through. The necessary wine or spirits 
may then be added to the jelly if it is quite clear; or it may be poured 
into the bag before the jelly has all passed througli. This is the stock 
jelly, which will set moderately 
firm. 

In most catering houses stock 
jelly is kept ready-made for 
moulding in various shapes 
and forms. This is mostly pre- 
Use of pared with isinglass 

Isinglass or or gelatine. When 

Gelatine. • • i ' i. 

isnioflass IS too ex- 

pensive for this purpcse, gela- 
tine, which is soluble and 
tasteless, may be used without 
spoiling the delicate flavour of 
the jelly. There are some 
varieties sold at about 2s. per 
pound, which give every satis- 
faction. Made with this quality, 
the jelly has the soft velvety 
feeling to the palate which is 

not obtained by using cheap inferior gelatine. This gelatine is also able 
to stand the acidity of the lemons and the addition of viane and spirit 
without losing its gelatinous properties. The following recipe will make 
about 12 qt. of jelly: — 




Fig. 105.— Jelly Cupboard 



Recipe for Stock 
Jelly from Gelatine. 



2 lb. shredded gelatine. 

11 qt. water. 

5 lb. lump sugai'. 

1 2 bay leaves. 
24 cloves. 

1| oz. coriander seeds. 
22 whites, with shells. 
Juice of 22 lemons. 
Zest of 11 lemons. 
4 3-in. sticks cinnamon. 
1 pt. brandy. 
Ih pt. sherry. 



JELLIES 37 

Place the gelatine to soak in one-third of the water. Pour the remainder of 
the water into the jelly-pan; mix in the whites and shells previously beaten; 
also the other ingredients, except the wine and gelatine. Stand Method of 
over a slow lire, whisk all together, and when hot stir in the Clarifying, 
gelatine and the remainder of the water. At this stage the whole should 
be mixed with the whisk until it comes to the boil, then removed to the 
side of the stove. Cover over and allow to remain for fifteen minutes, then 
add the wine and spirits and filter through the bag. This jelly will form 
the foundation for many varieties, as the following notes will indicate. 

Moulded jellies are almost endless in variety. Some consist of fruit 
and jelly mixed together, or with whipped cream. To prepare macedoine 
jellies proceed as follows. Take the quantity of jelly required Macedoine 
for this purpose, and dissolve half in a clean pan. Add a little Jellies, 
maraschino to flavour, and pour sufficient in the mould to cover the bottom. 
Stand the mould in ice water, and when the jelly is firm drop in two or 
three pieces of fresh fruits. Cut some pieces from the firm stock jelly, 
lay part upon the fruit, and fill the mould to within | in. of the top with 
alternate layers of liquid, set jelly, and mixed fruits. When Method of 
all has set firm, fill the mould with liquid jelly to give the Filling Moulds, 
finished article a smooth appearance. Tliis method of adding pieces of 
firm jelly prevents the fruit from remaining in layers, which spoil its 
attractiveness. The fruits used should be those that are in season, or, if 
these are too expensive, pieces of preserved apricots and greengages may 
be added, with a few bright preserved cherries. 

P'or spring jellies, proceed as for macedoine jellies. The fruit should 
consist of mixed grapes, blanched walnuts, hazel nuts, pre- Printaniere or 
served cherries, and pineapple, flavoured with maraschino. Spring jellies. 

Fresh fruit, prepared for pineapple jellies, is cut into small squares and 
boiled in weak stock syrup. This cooking is necessary on account of the 
acid contained in the fruit, which, if mixed with the jelly in pineapple 
its fresh condition, w^ould prevent the jelly from setting firm. Jellies. 
The fruit should be drained and dried with a cloth before using. Flavour 
the jelly with chartreuse and decorate with gold leaf. 

For gold-leaf jellies, decorate the top of the moulds with a little clear 
jelly and three pieces of fresh or preserved fruits of distinctive colours. 
Dissolve the remainder of the jelly necessary for filling, and Gold-Leaf 
when cold mix in a few pieces of gold leaf (to be obtained in Jellies, 
small books). If these pieces of gold leaf mix readily with the jelly and do 
not sink to the bottom of the pan, transfer at once to the moulds set in ice. 

Marbled jellies consist of clear jelly filled in with w i^i h t 
alternate pieces of white and pink whipped jelly. To be 
successful with the preparation of this beaten jelly, all utensils should be 
free from grease. Place the liquid jelly into a pan and 
beat with a whisk until it thickens to a foam, transfer part 
to another vessel, colour with carmine, and allow both to set firm. The 
jelly should not be beaten hot. 



38 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

To make snow jelly, top the mould with clear jelly and a few pieces 
of silver leaf. Whip some brandy jelly to a foam and add a little melted 
Neige or gelatine. As soon as it shows signs of being ready, pour at 
Snow Jelly. Qjjce into the mould. The whipped jelly should be beaten fairly 
stiff, and yet of such consistency as will allow this to run freely in the 
mould. If this is added warm, part will sink to the bottom of the mould 
and leave a useless froth on top. 

Autumn Autumn jellies are flavoured with cura9oa, coloured with 

Jellies. carmine, and decorated with seasonable mixed fruits. 

Tricolour or Rubani jellies are prepared with clear jelly flavoured with 
sherry, and moulded with pieces of red, white, and pale-green blancmange. 
Tricolour ^^^ ^^ '"^ shallow mould or pan some white blancmange pre- 
or Rubani pared with milk, cream, ground almonds, bay leaves, cinnamon, 
je les. ^ little sugar, and sufficient melted gelatine. Place on ice to 

set firm, add another layer of pink, and when ready pour on another 
mixing, coloured with green " Breton " paste. When these have set firm 
turn out upon a dish, cut into small strips, and use for tilling in the 
mould with liquid and pieces of firm jelly. 

For Valentine jellies, prepare small heart-shaped pieces of blancmange, 
Valentine stamped out with a heart-shaped cutter. Cut small pieces of 
Jellies. angelica to represent the darts, place one through each piece of 
blancmange, and fill in to the mould with liquid and pieces of set jelly. 

To make champagne jellies, flavour some clear jelly with chartreuse and 
maraschino. Mix in some pieces of silver leaf broken very small; with this 
Champagne three-quarters fill some champagne glasses, and stand in ice to 
Jellies. ggt Finish by covering the surface of each with a thin layer of 

whipped jelly to represent the froth. These jellies are attractive and novel. 

For harlequin jellies, prepare an even number of dariole moulds; divide 
into four lots, and stand in ice water. Fill one set with clear red jelly. 
Harlequin another with whipped jelly, the third with chopped pistachio 
Jellies. mixed with jelly, and those remaining with silver-leaf jelly. 
When firm enough to handle, turn each out upon a cloth. With a small 
knife dipped occasionally in hot water cut each into four (quarters, and 
M th d f veturn to the moulds as follows. The whipped jelly, being 
Filling the very light, should be placed in the mould first; add two 
Mixed Jellies, q^j^^j. coloured pieces, and before pressing the last piece in 
position, this should be dipped into liquid jelly. Within a few moments 
these will be ready for turning out of the moulds. 

Punch jellies are flavoured with rum, and coloured with carmine. Top 
the moulds with mixed fruits set in clear jelly, and cover 
with a thin layer of whipped jelly. The filling in must be 
carefully done; otherwise the whipped jelly will rise to the surface. 

Noyau jellies are flavoured with noyau, coloured red, 
and moulded. 
Maraschino For maraschino jellies, add half a wine-glass of liqueur to each 
Jellies. quart mould, colour with carmine, and fill in decorated moulds. 



JELLIES 39 

When orange jellies are required in small quantities, mix in some 
orange zest while the jelly is hot. Allow to remain for ten minutes; then 
strain through a piece of muslin, and mould as required. 
When pieces of fruit are to be mixed with the jelly, these 
should be prepared as follows. Remove with a sharp knife both the outer 
and the inner rind of the orange. The small quarters of /j.^ prepare 
fruit may be then cut away free from any substance likely to Oranges for 
spoil the flavour of the jelly. Allow these to set firm in some ^^ '^^" 
clear jelly before adding to the moulds. This is to prevent the acidity of 
the oranges from spoiling the jelly used in the moulding. 

For croutes of peaches small moulds are required. These are made of 
tin or copper the shape of half peaches. Place in each some liquid jelly; 
when partly set, press on this a piece of tinned or fresh fruit CroGtes of 
coloured slightly with carmine, and cover with jelly. Turn out Peaches, 
of the moulds, and serve on a small round piece of gateau paste. These 
may be served separately, or dished upon silver dishes with whipped cream 
piped between them. 

Many other varieties of moulded jellies may be, and are, made besides 
those referred to. The method adopted for these is prac- 
tically the same, and it would be needless repetition to refer 
in detail to them. 

To make aspic jelly, put into a stewpan 4 qt. of water, or stock, the 
beaten whites and shells of twelve eggs, ^ pt. of tarragon and plain vinegar 
mixed, some peppercorns and allspice, together with the follow- a • t n 
ing vegetables cut very small: four sticks of celery, four small 
onions, and three small carrots. Add some crushed mace and the juice of 
three lemons, and place the pan over a steady fire. Before the mixture 
reaches boiling-point add 1 lb. of gelatine previously soaked for three 
hours in 2 qt. of water. Stir all together with a whisk; bring to the 
boil; draw the pan to the side of the stove, and allow to simmer gently 
for ten to fifteen minutes. Pour through a jelly bag until it runs clear. 
It is advisable to add salt or other seasoning as required to the jelly 
before removing it from the stove. A few drops of caramel colouring 
will improve the colour. 

To a.scertain the consistency of the jelly while on the stove, place a little 
in a dariole mould and set this on ice. It will soon set and give sufficient 
indication whether the whole jelly requires more gelatine or to Test 
more water. For some purposes this jelly requires less gela- Consistency, 
tine, especially when made for eating and not for show. The flavour may 
be improved by the addition of three gills of sherry. 



40 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

CHAPTER XII 

CHARTREUSES OF FRUITS 

Chartreuses of fruits are made with jelly, whipped cream, and various 
Chartreuses fruits. These are attractive in appearance, and require more 
of Fruits. care in moulding than plain jellies. 

Before giving directions for their preparation it is necessary to refer to 
the liquid or melted gelatine which will be used for setting the whipped 
J 11 f cream. In many catering houses this is kept in stock, made 
Whipped with a definite quantity of water, and measured oft" as re- 
Cream, quired. By using a small ^-gill ladle for this purpose the con- 
fectioner will know from experience the correct quantity required to set 
the cream without making it stiff. Place into a tinned copper saucepan 
some shredded gelatine, cover with cold water, and stand away for two 
hours. In that time the gelatine will have absorbed most of the water. 
Drain off any that may have been unused, and melt the gelatine over a 
slow fire. Provided that a fair quantity of water was added in the tirst 
place, this dissolved mixture will be of such consistency as will mix readily 
with the whipped cream. As this melted gelatine is useful to the con- 
fectioner for other purposes in making fancy confectionery, it is advisable 
to keep it thus prepared in stock. Waste is sometimes caused by dissolving 
1 oz. or a less quantity of gelatine for setting creams. It is impossible to 
work successfully with these small quantities, as the necessary quantity of 
gelatine required to set plain creams varies according to the acidity of fruit 
juices used for flavouring. 

For chartreuse of bananas (see Plate, Cold Entremets), set in the top of 
a charlotte or fancy-shaped mould a thin layer of jelly. Take some sound 
Chartreuse bananas, remove the rind, cut the fruit in small round pieces 
of Bananas. ^ {^^ thick, and lay them on a clean cloth. With a skewer 
dipped in liquid carmine make three dots of red on each. Use a number 
of these cut pieces to cover the top of the mould, and set Arm with jelly. 
Take a plain cutter (a tin with the bottom removed will answer the 
purpose) 1 in. less in diameter than the charlotte mould, and stand this 
upright on the set jelly. Fill the open space between the mould and the 
cutter with layers of banana and liquid jelly. To enable these to set firm 
quickly, the jelly used should be cold. 

Prepare the filling as follows. Whisk up the quantity of cream required, 

flavour with banana pulp made by forcing the fruit through a hair sieve, 

T, • and sweeten to taste; add a little lemon iuice, and whisk in a small 
Preparing ' , . 

Whipped portion of the melted gelatine. Remove the cuttei- by pourmg 
Cream. gome warm water into this; then turn the mould upside down, 
and pull out gradually without breaking the jelly. Fill in with the cream, 
and in a short time this will be ready for serving. The charlotte or other 
moulds may be lined with fruit and jelly without using the cutter or tin 



CHARLOTTES AND MOULDED CREAMS il 

centre, but longer time is necessary for the preparation. The moulds are 
placed on crushed ice, with a small quantity of liquid . ^^^ Method 
jelly, and constantly turned until the jelly begins to set, of Lining Moulds 
when pieces of fruit are added until the mould is covered. ^ Fruit. 

When using tinned fruits for this purpose, such as peaches, apricots, or 
pineapples, these should be brought to the boil in hot syrup g ... p 
and drained before using. This destroys the " tinny " taste, cautions with 
and removes some of the acid which the fruit contains. Tinned rmts. 

The following is a list of chartreuses of various fruits which may be 
prepared in the manner described above: — 

Chartreuse of strawberries. 

Chartreuse of apricots. List of Fruit 

Chartreuse of peaches. Chartreuses. 

Chartreuse of grapes. 

Chartreuse of oranges. 

Chartreuse of tangerines. 

Chartreuse of pineapple. 

Chartreuse of cherries. 



CHAPTER XIII 

CHAELOTTES AND MOULDED CREAMS 

To prepare a Russian charlotte (see Plate, Cold Entremets, No. 4); 
cover the bottom of a plain charlotte mould with clear jelly, and decorate 
with pieces of preserved fruit. When this has set, line 
the sides of the mould with finger biscuits slightly 
trimmed to fit closely together. Prepare some whipped cream, sweeten 
to taste, and flavour with vanilla; then add a little melted gelatine, and 
pour into the prepared mould. Half an ounce of gelatine will be sufficient 
to set three gills of cream. 

For Venetian charlotte, ornament the bottom of an oval charlotte mould 
with a layer of clear and one of whipped white jelly. Line the mould with 
pieces of gateau paste cut in fingers, and coloured 
alternately pink, chocolate, and yellow. Arrange these 
so that each piece overlaps the next, tis shown on the Plate CoLD 
Entremets. Fill in with three layers of cream — one chocolate, one 
strawberry, and one vanilla. The chocolate cream and cake should be 
flavoured with melted unsweetened cocoa, which should be dissolved in hot 
milk, and then cooled before using. 

Prepare Charlotte Coloniale with two or three ^kinds of gA,teau pjiste. 

Fill in with prepared cream flavoured with vanilla, ^. . 

, . , , ,, . /. 1 / Charlotte Coloniale. 

kirsch, and small pieces or marron glace. 

For Charlotte Ecossaise top a plain mould with pink jelly. When this 

Vol. II. 66 



42 SWEETS AND ENTREMET^ 

is set, decorate with whipped white jelly forced out with a paper cornet. 

. . For the lining trim some finger biscuits, ice one-third 

with chocolate water icing, another with pink, and the 

remainder with white. When the icing has set firm, arrange the biscuits 

with alternate colours in the mould. Fill in with cream flavoured with 

rose water and maraschino. 

For Charlotte Normande prepare two pieces of gateau paste (No. 4), 

4 in. square and ^ in. thick. Split in two; sandwich one piece with red- 

, , ^, , currant ielly, the other with apricot pulp coloured 

Charlotte Normande. . t, - l rpi -.i T. i •<? 

With green Breton paste, ihen with a sharp kniie 

cut each piece into fingers about ^ in. thick. Have ready a prepared 

mould, and line this with the cake, the colours to be arranged alternately. 

Whip up the cream necessary, flavour with sherry, add the gelatine, and 

pour into the mould. 

Charlotte mignons are prepared in dariole moulds lined with pieces of 

plateau paste, sandwiched with red and green apricot 
Charlotte Mignons. ^ , \ , ^u -ni i. />i t- 

pulp or jam, as shown on the Flate, Cold Entremets, 

No. 5. The filling consists of whipped cream flavoured with pineapple. 

By using fruit juices, these charlottes may be prepared in large variety. 
As the method is practically the same as stated above, it would be repeti- 
Fruit Juices tion to deal with each separately. There are, however, two 
for Flavouring, essentials which should be carefully noted when flavouring 
creams with fresh or bottled fruits. The flavour is improved by the 
addition to the cream of a little lemon juice or citric acid dissolved in 
water. In the second place, more liquid gelatine is needed to set the fruit 
creams than to set those flavoured only with essences or liqueurs. 

The appearance of these articles at the time of serving is improved by 
placing pieces of chopped jelly round the base, on the silver or glass dish on 
Chopped Jelly which they are served. The jelly should not be cut so fine 
for Decoration, j^g ^q i^iake a pulp, but ill small separated pieces to produce 
a bright and clear appearance. 

Moulded Creams 

Moulded creams usually consist of whipped cream flavoured with fruit 

juices or liqueurs, and set firm with gelatine. Other sorts made after 

Continental methods consist of cream and custard mixed 

together, and set with isinglass or gelatine. The latter 

varieties are named Bavaroise, and will be dealt with later. 

Too much stress cannot be laid on the fact that many moulded creams 
How Creams are spoiled in the making. Overwhisking curdles the cream 
are Spoiled, q^^^ gg^g j^ \[]^q butter, thus afi'ecting the flavour and appear- 
ance; and stiffening with an overdose of gelatine also spoils them. 

For vanilla cream top a quart jelly mould with clear red jelly, drop in 

two or three black grapes, and allow the jelly to set 

firm. Meanwhile place 1 pt. of cream into a cold pan, add 

vanilla syrup with the necessary castor sugar to flavour and sweeten. 



CHARLOTTES AND MOULDED CREAMS 43 

and then beat lightly with a whisk. Mix in 1 gill of milk, then about 

1 gill of melted gelatine, and transfer at once to the decorated mould. 
This cream, when turned out of the mould, should be soft and yet of 
sufficient consistenc}" to remain firm and upright. Where the cream beats 
up very light, it may be that this quantity will be sufficient to fill the 
mould without the addition of any milk. 

To make brown -bread cream, pass the crumb of a stale brown loaf 
through a fine sieve. Place the crumbs in a hot oven, and colour to a 
light brown. Whip up 1 pt. of cream, add a little milk, with Brown-bread 
vanilla and sugar to sweeten, and mix in the gelatine and Cream. 

2 oz. of the toasted bread crumbs. Fill into a quart mould previously 
decorated with red jelly. 

Italian cream is made as follows. For a quart mould prepare 1 pt. of 
cream with which a little milk has been mixed; sweeten and flavour with 
the zest of one lemon and half a wineglassful of brandy. 
Add the gelatine, and fill into a decorated mould. Dip a 
skewer into some liquid carmine, and with this make a few streaks of 
colour in the moulded cream. 

As little or no flavorcring is obtained from pistachio nuts, and as they 
are expensive, the necessary flavouring for pistachio creams should be 
prepared as follows. Bring to the boil i pt. of milk, 
Ih oz. ground almonds, and the zest of one orange. Pass 
this through a wire sieve, and add to tlie cream. Add also two table- 
spoonfuls of noyau, a little green colouring, and the necessary gelatine; 
after whipping, pour into a quart mould decorated with clear jelly and 
filleted pistachio nuts. 

Sicilian cream is flavoured with crushed ratafia biscuits and half a 
wineglassful of kirsch, and poured into a mould decorated 
with jelly and preserved apricots and cherries. 

To flavour 1 qt. mould of chocolate cream, dissolve 1 oz. of block cocoa 
in 1 gill of hot milk. Mix this with vanilla and castor sugar, and the 
usual gelatine with the whipped cream, and transfer to ^, 

diocol&tc Crcsm 

a mould previously decorated with one layer of plain 

and one of whipped white jelly. A few spots of carmine maj'^ be added 

to give the cream a reddish-brown colour. 

Cream used for making coflTee creams should be flavoured with a 
strong infusion of prepared cotFee essence, and a little 
vanilla sugar and brandy. Before moulding, drop into the 
mixture a few small coffee liqueurs — small sweets filled with strong 
coffee. 

Millefruit cream is prepared by adding elder-flower syrup, with a little 
maraschino and various coloured preserved fruits cut small, to whipped 
cream. Decorate the mould with gold-leaf jelly and „ ,, , . 
four pieces of different coloured fruits. 

An endless variety of these creams may be prepared either in large 
decorated or small plain or fancy dariole moulds. The writer has found 



U SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

that by using small liqueur drops of the same flavours as the creams, the 

eating quality oi" the creams is much improved. 

The foundation for Bavaroise creams consists of a mixture of custard, 

whipped cream, flavouring, and isinglass or best-quality gelatine. They 

are not so rich as those made with cream only. They are 
Bavaroise Creams. iiii-i ,i n c ^ ■ 11 

moulded, like tiie other creams referred to, m moulds 

ornamented with jelly and fruits. As these should be prepared of a jelly 

consistency, it is essential that melted gelatine just sufficient to set the 

cream be added. 

The following recipe and method will make a rich custard which may be 

used with cream for preparing a large variety of moulded creams. Place 

Custard for into a basin four eggs, six yolks, and 6 oz. of castor sugar. 

Cream Mixmg. ggat these together, and whisk in 1 pt. of boiling milk. Stand 

the basin over a slow Are, and continue to stir the custard until it is of 

sufficient thickness to coat the spoon; then transfer to a cold pan. The 

custard should be quite cold before mixing with the whipped cream. 



CHAPTER XIV 

COMPOTE OF FEUIT AND SUPPER DISHES 

In addition to jellies, creams, &c., which are served as sweets ("Entre- 

. mets"), the following list of cold and hot dishes will be found 

useful for dinner, luncheon, or supper parties. 

For a supreme of pineapple prepare a ring of No. 4 gateau paste about 
5 in. in diameter and 3 in. thick. Lay this on a glass or silver dish, and 
Supreme of AH the centre with a mixture consisting of chopped pineapple. 
Pineapple, apricot pulp, and maraschino. Mask the cake with whipped 
cream flavoured with maraschino, and decorate the top with diamond- 
shaped pieces of preserved pineapple and small bright cherries. Pipe 
whipped cream round the sides of the cake with a bag and |-in. star 
tube. 

For supreme of cherries flavour some gateau paste with noyau syrup 
splashed on with a brush. Cut a ring of this, and place on a dish; fill in 
Supreme of the centre with cherries mixed with apple jelly. Mask the 
Cherries. cake and fruit with whipped cream flavoured with noyau, and 
decorate the top with cherries and diamond-shaped pieces of angelica. 
With a bag and plain tube pipe on the sides some bulbs of cream, and lay 
on the centre of each bulb a small piece of cherry cut out with a ^-in. plain 
tube or cutter. 

When fresh cherries are used for this purpose, these, after stoning, 
To Cook Fresh should be cooked in weak syrup. The syrup may then 
Cherries. ]qq u^q^. in place of the apple jelly, but made thick by 

adding a little corn flour or arrowroot, mixed with the smallest possible 



COLD ENTREMETS 



1. Charlotte Colonial. 

2. Croiites of Peaches. 

3. Chartreuse of Bananas. 

4. Charlotte Russe. 

5. Charlotte Mignon. 

6. Swallow's Nest. 

7. Chartreuse of Apricots. 

8. Harlequin Jellies. 

9. Macedoine Jelly. 

10. Riz Imperatrice. 

11. Chartreuse of Grapes. 

12. Marble Jelly. 












^♦v* ♦♦*'* 




COLD ENTREMETS 



COMPOTE OF FRUIT AND SUPPER DISHES 45 

quantity of water, after the fruit has been removed, and bringing all to 
the boil. 

For Riz a I'lmperatrice (see Plate, Cold Entremets, No. 10) boil 3 oz. 
of rice with ^ pt. of milk and an equal quantity of water. Add the zest 
of one lemon, a piece of vanilla bean, and enough lump sugar Riz 4 I'lm- 
to sweeten. Cook the rice until quite soft; then remove from p^ratnce. 
the stove, and stir in some cream and sufficient gelatine to set the mixture 
to jelly consistency. Prepare an oval quart mould with centre tube, and 
pour a layer of clear jelly in the bottom with pieces of preserved apricots 
and cherries. When this jelly has set, place on top a thin layer of the 
cold rice; cover with cold jelly, and when firm continue to fill the mould 
with alternate layers of jelly and rice. Stand this in ice water, and when 
set firm turn out on an oval dish and fill in the centre with stewed apricots 
or whipped cream. 

For blancmange bring to the boil 1 pt. of milk, IJ oz. of ground 
almonds, three bay leaves, the rind of one lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon, 
and sufficient lump sucrar to sweeten. Pass the mixture _. 
through a hair sieve into a shallow basin, stir in 1| oz. 
of soaked gelatine, and add i pt. of cream richly flavoured with noyau 
and brandy. When cold, pour into a quart mould previously decorated 
with red jelly, and set firm in some ice water. 

Fresh or tinned fruit may, as desired, be used for the preparation of 
croutes of fruit. Take a whole pineapple, and remove the peel. Cut it in 
round slices about I in. thick, and divide each into two pieces crodtes of 
of equal size. Bring this fruit to the boil in weak syrup. Pineapple. 
Drain ofi" the syrup on a hair sieve, and prepare the croutes as follows. 
Lay the pieces of pineapple in a saut^ pan or shallow tray about ^ in. 
apart, and cover with jelly. Stand the pan on .some ice, so that the jelly 
sets firm. Meanwhile cut out some thin oval pieces of gateau paste the 
same size as the fruit. With a knife, dipped occasionally in hot water, cut 
out each piece of fruit from the firm jelly, and place these Forming Dish 
on the shaped pieces of gateau paste. Build the croutes in °^ CroHtes. 
position, each piece half-resting upon the other, to form a circle on the 
border of a glass or silver dish. Prepare some whipped cream, and flavour 
this with the fruit syrup whicli has been previously reduced by boiling. 
Fill in the centre of the croiites. 

Croiites of peaches (see Plate, Cold Entremets, No. 1) may be prepared 
in a shallow tray, or moulded in half-peach moulds. The latter method 
is more economical, and prevents waste. Stand the moulds in Croates of 
ice water, and set a little jelly in each. Slightly colour the Peaches, 
tops of the half-peaches with carmine, and set one in each of the moulds. 
Fill thcvse with jelly flavoured with kirsch, and when set, turn out on a 
thin round piece of cake the same diameter as the mould. Place on the 
dish to form a circle, and fill in the centre with cream from a bag and 
star tube. Another mode of dishing up is to build a pyramid with the 
crofttes, and pipe bulbs of cream between them. 



46 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

Black and white grapes, strawberries, and other fruits may be prepared 
according to the above instructions, and moulded in shallow fancy-shaped 
Crodtes of moulds. Tangerines are useful for the preparation of various 
Tangerines, entremets, especially for these croAtes which are made without 
jelly or moulds. Cover some pieces of dry tangerine with caramel sugar. 
Take a sheet of No. 4 gateau paste | in. thick, and with 2|-in. plain cutter 
stamp out the number of pieces required. Dip the end of a piece of caramel 
orange into some hot sugar and fix this on the border of the cake. Take 
a second piece, dip both ends in the sugar, and fasten one end on the cake 
and the other to the first set piece of fruit. Make a circle of these, place 
a caramel cherry between, and fasten with hot sugar to the cake. Fill the 
centre with orange - flavoured cream through |-in. star tube to form a 
pyramid. 

Another very nice entremet is known as Croutes of Madeira. This is 
one of those, to which reference has already been made, prepared with 
Crotites of savarins (see Vol. I, p. 312). Prepare the cake in a shallow 
Madeira. mould with a pipe centre. Do not soak the savarin in syrup, 
but cut it into thin slices, holding the knife diagonally. Place these on 
a baking sheet, dust with castor sugar, and colour in a hot oven. Mask 
one side of each piece with hot apricot jelly, place on this a thin slice 
of pineapple, and build together on a silver dish so as to re-form the 
original shape of the savarin. Fill in the centre with fresh fruit mixed 
with a little stock syrup and flavoured with madeira. 

For savarin and cherries soak a plain savarin in hot syrup, sprinkle 
some noyau over it, place on a dish, and mask with hot apricot jelly. 
Savarin and Remove the stones from some fresh or bottled cherries, and 
Cherries. bring these to the boil in w^eak syrup. Remove the fruit, 

and thicken the syrup with a little corn flour; flavour with noyau and add 
to the cherries. Fill the centre of the savarin, and serve either hot or cold. 

Savarins may be served with the centre filled with whipped cream, 
and the fruit and syrup placed round the base. Stewed pears mixed 
Savarins with Cream may be served along with soaked savarins, and 

with Cream, q^q combination is an excellent dinner sweet. The fruit may 
be prepared by stewing in syrup coloured with carmine, or served as 
prepared in tins. When the fruit has been cooked in the syrup, the 
latter should be made thick with red-currant jelly, then flavoured with 
port wine and the rind of a lemon. 

For savarin and apricots steep a savarin in hot syrup, sprinkle some 
kirsch over it, and place on a dish; mask with hot apricot jelly. Fill the 
Savarin Centre with cream, and place round the border some pieces 

and Apricots. Qf apricots taken from a thick syrup flavoured with kirsch. 

Savarin and peaches is prepared as follows. Soak in syrup and 
Savarin and finish as for savarin of apricots. Use a mixture of noyau and 
Peaches. kirsch for flavouring. The addition of bright glace cherries 

mixed with the other fruit gives these entremets a brighter appearance. 

The swallow's nest entremet (see Plate, Cold Entremets, No. 6) 



COMPOTE OF FRUIT AND SUPPER DISHES 



47 



is prepared with crushed pieces of marron glace highly flavoured with 
kirsch and vanilla sugar. Press this paste through a wire sieve Swallow's 
and shape it in a fluted savarin mould. Turn out on a dish, Nest, 
and All in the centre with whipped cream to which a little gelatine 
has been added. Pipe on the centre enough cream to represent a bird, 
and fix the tail and wings in position. These appendages may be cut 
from baked gaufre paste or from a thin piece of angelica, and masked with 
cream. With caramel colouring and a skewer, mark two small specks to 
represent the eyes. Pipe bulbs of whipped cream round the base and 
sprinkle some chopped pistachio over this to represent 
green moss. 

Small nests may be prepared by shaping the 
marron (preserved chestnut) in moulds, small Nests 
and transferring to a biscuit base made °^ Matron, 
of Shrewsbury paste (see Vol. I, p. 404). 

For Mont Blanc Chantilly pound pieces of marron 
glace and vanilla sugar together in the mortar. Add 
whipped cream and a little kirsch, and Mont Blanc 
pass through a sieve. The paste should Chantilly. 
be rich with cream and of such a consistency that it 
will pass through the sieve in separate pieces. Lay 
this on the centre of a dish in pyramid form, and 
cover with whipped cream. Before serving, it should 
be sprinkled over with sugar crystals as usually 
served with coff*ee. 

Another sweet that is easy to prepare is made 
with baked meringue and cream of marron. Line a shallow shortbread 
hoop with sweet short paste. Fill in with apple jam and bake Matron and 
in a hot oven. Mask this with a thin layer of cold meringue, Meringue, 
and return again to the oven to colour. When cold, take a mixture of 
marron cream, and with a forcing-bag and a small plain tube pipe lines 
of cream to partly cover the meringue. Sprinkle some pieces of pistachio 
over this. 

For Venetian pudding prepare a mixing of custard with 1 pt. of milk 
as for Bavaroise; dissolve in this 1 oz. of gelatine, and stand away to cool. 
Place some pieces of dry finger biscuits and ratafias into a basin, Venetian 
and soak with a mixture of brandy, sherry, and a little noyau. Pudding. 
Cut some preserved apricots, greengages, and cherries into small pieces. 
Mix these with the custard and soaked biscuits, and turn all into a quart 
fancy-shaped mould previously decorated with gold-leaf jelly and difi^erent 
coloured fruits. The above mixture may be served with a rich cream 
sauce made with custard cream flavoured with wine or liqueur. 

For Neapolitan cream prepare a light mixture with three gills of 
whipped cream, a little gelatine, pieces of preserved ginger, and Neapolitan 
enough castor sugar to sweeten. Pour into a bomb mould Cream, 
(fig. 106) and set in ice water. In the meantime prepare two separate 




Fig. 10«.— Bomb Mould 



48 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

mixings of chopped jelly, one white and the other coloured with carmine. 
Turn the cream on to a silver dish and cover with piped lines of coloured 
jelly, alternating one colour with another. Place a split preserved green- 
gage on the centre, and cover the dish with chopped jelly. Very little 
gelatine is required to set this cream. If made stiff the jelly will not 
adhere to the side. 

For cream gaufres line a round or oval charlotte, and mould with pink 
and white wafers made in cigarette shape with the same paste as used 
Cream for making copeaux (see Vol. I, p. 425). Make the wafers to fit 
Gauffres. close together and join them with glace royal. When these 
have set firm, turn out on to a base of fondant-iced gateau paste. Fasten 
round the centre a piece of pale -green ribbon, and fill in with vanilla 
cream. Decorate the base with preserved cherries and angelica. To 
give this cream an attractive appearance it is essential that the wafers 
should be made thin and baked in a very hot oven. 



CHAPTER XV 

ENTEEMETS 

Vanilla Souffle 

For vanilla souffle weigh into a basin 2 oz. of plain flour, 1 oz. corn 
flour, 2-| oz. castor sugar, and 1 oz. vanilla sugar; whisk all together with 
three yolks and | pt. of milk added gradually. Bring to the boil over a 
slow tire while stirring quickly to prevent the paste from becoming lumpy. 
Remove the paste to a cold pan, and when it has cooled stir in four yolks. 
Whisk three whites of egg to a stiff" foam, and mix these with the paste. 
Pour into a buttered souffle dish lined with a buttered paper band, and 
How to Serve bake in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Remove the 
Souffles. paper band, dish in a silver souffle case or on a flat dish; 

dredge with vanilla sugar, and serve at once. This entremet requires great 
care, owing to its being very light. It should be served at once. 

Vanilla Souffle Pudding 

The foundation of this rich pudding consists of a light cream-bun paste 
mixed with yolks and whipped whites. Prepare the hot batter with 3 oz. 
flour, 3 oz. butter, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, and 2 gills milk. Transfer to a cold 
basin, beat in five yolks, and add gradually six whisked whites. Dress a 
Cooking Souffle plain fluted mould with clarified butter, three-parts fill with 
in Steam. ^j^g mixture, secure a round of greased paper on top, and 

steam slowly for about forty-five minutes in a covered stewpan. Turn on 
to a hot dish, and serve with vanilla cream or preserves. 



ENTREMETS 49 

Vanilla Souffle Fritters 

Prepare a mixing of paste as used for eclairs; flavour with vanilla 
essence. Have ready a pan of clear hot lard or oil. Drop in the mixture with 
a dessert spoon, and fry the fritters to a light brown. Drain sauce with 
on a papered tray, and dust with icing sugar before serving. Souffles. 
Vanilla whipped cream may be served in a sauce boat witli these, or some 
raspberry jam may be forced into each fritter from a paper cornet. 

Chocolate Souffle 

For chocolate souffle add 2 oz. of unsweetened cocoa, to the hot paste as 
prepared for vanilla souffle. Colour with a few drops of carmine; mix in 
the whites, and bake in a greased dish. Before serving, dust over with 
vanilla sugar and powdered cocoa. 

Coffee Souffle 

The best flavour for this entremet is obtained by boiling hot, roasted 
coffee beans along with the milk. When this is not convenient, reduce the 
quantity of milk by 1 gill, and add some strong coffee to Secure Best 
infusion. Use the same formula as for vanilla souffle, and Coifee Flavour, 
bake in large lining of souffle case, or in paper ramaquin cases. 

Rice Souffl^ 

Bring to the boil 8 gills of milk, add 2^ oz. of castor sugar, the zest of 
one orange, and 1^ oz. of ground rice. Beat the mixture with a whisk 
until it thickens and is quite smooth; then transfer to a cold pan. Add 
four yolks and the whipped whites of ffve eggs. Pour into a buttered 
souffle case or plain fluted mould, and bake for about forty-five minutes. 

Apple Fritters 

Apple fritters are composed of thin slices of apple soaked in brandy, 
then covered with batter, and fried in hot fat. Other fruit may be used 
in the preparation of these sweets, with or without spirits or liqueurs, and 
finished according to the following directions. Take some sound apples, 
and cut them into slices f in. thick; remove the cores with a Preparing 
plain round cutter, pare and trim each piece so that all are of *^^ Apples, 
the same size; cover with a little brandy. Prepare the batter as follows. 
Weigh into a basin 8 oz. of flour and 1.1 o/.. ci-.tor sugar; add a pinch of 
salt, and mix in with the hand sufficient warm water to make a pa.ste thick 
enough to coat a spoon. Add two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and allow all 
to remain for thirty minutes; then mix in the well-beaten whites of two 
small eggs. Dry the apples with a cloth, and dust with flour. Dip each 
separately into the batter, and cook to a light golden colour in the fat. 
Drain on a papered tray, dust with fine sugar, place under the use of the 
salaniand until the sugar is melted, and serve at once. These Saiamand. 
fritters make very nice entremets, and are suitable for first-class catering. 

Vol, II. 67 



50 SWEETS AND ENTREMETS 

Very often in restaui-ants and hotels where they are in everyday demand. 

a pan of batter is kept prepared; this makes a lighter fritter than if the 

batter is fresh made. 

Peach Sicilian 

For Peach Sicilian open a tin or bottle of preserved peaches, place them 
to drain on a sieve, and put the syrup into a saucepan with 2 oz. of loaf 
sugar. Reduce to half the original quantity. Drop in the peaches and 
bring to the boil; shake all together, and turn out on a wire sieve. Cover 
Filling for the centre of a silver dish with firm vanilla custard; force the 
Peaches. centre of each half - peach with paste consisting of crushed 
ratahas and a little apricot preserve flavoured with kirsch. Turn each 
piece of fruit on to the custard to almost cover the latter; then brush a 
little apricot pulp over each, and sprinkle on some crushed ratatias; sala- 
mand for a few minutes, and serve hot. 

Pears Sicilian 

Another very nice-eating sweet is called Pears Sicilian. In this case 
the fruit used is pears, but the method is the same as for the foregoing. 
Prepare with vanilla custard, and soak the crushed biscuits with maras- 
chino. 

Apple Charlottes 

Apple charlottes are quite different from those mentioned in the list of 
cold entremets, as these are served up hot with a rich sauce. Prepare the 
tilling as follows. Pare and divide the required number of apples, put into 
a saucepan with the smallest possible quantity of water, cover, and stew 
gently till the fruit is quite tender. Drain on a wire sieve. Place the pulp 
back again into the saucepan with the rind of one lemon, a piece of stick 
cinnamon, two bay leaves, four cloves, a little apricot preserve, and 2 oz. of 
fresh butter. Keep the mixture stirred, and allow all to simmer for ten 
Bread Fingers miiiutes. Butter a plain charlotte mould, cover the bottom 
for Lining. ^nd sides with thin finger-shaped pieces of bread dipped in 

clarified butter; those for the bottom must be cut into pear shapes with a 
round piece for the centre; those for the sides into f-in. strips the same 
length as the mould used. Each piece should overlap its neighbour. 
Remove the rind of the lemon, bay leaves, and cinnamon. Fill the mould 
with apple puree; place a round of bread on top, and bake for thirty 
minutes in a hot oven. Turn out on to a silver dish, and serve with hot 
sauce made with the juice of the apples, mixed with apricot puree, and 
Sh t P t flavoured with rum. Another method of preparing these char- 
Lining for lottes is to line the moulds with rich short paste, fllling in with 
Charlottes. ^^i^ apple preserve, covering the top with a round piece of the 
same paste, and baking for forty-five minutes in a hot oven. 



THE PREPARATION OF ICES 



51 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE PEEPAEATION OF ICES 

The manufacture of ices forms one of the most important departments 
of the confectionery trade. Within the last few years this branch of the 
catering business has greatly im- Good Materials 
proved, but there is need for further Necessary, 
improvement in regard to both materials and utensils. 






Fig. 107.— Pewter Freezer 



Fig. 108.— Ice Tubs ami Freezers 



Too often ices are spoiled by materials of inferior quality, or through 

use of the wrong proportions of ingredients. 

For a small trade the best utensils to use for freezing the ices are a 

pewter freezer (fig. 
107), a wooden tub 
with a plug hole near 

the bottom, utensils 
and a spa- Needed, 
tula (fig. 109). Many 
of the patent ice 
machines on sale are 
inefficient and useless 
for either cream or 
water ices. Two 
most efficient ma- 
chines are Best 
of Aus- Machines, 
trian and French 
manufacture respec- 
tively, but these are 
expensive. The 

Kirchoff (Austrian) 
is the better of the 
two, but the Nouvelle 

Turbine k Glacer (French), shown in fig. 110, is nearly as great a favourite 

with expert " ice-men ". 




Fig 105).— 
Ice Bpntula 



Fig. 110.— French Ice Slachinc (Turbine k Olacer) 



52 



ICES 



Moulds for Ices. 





MOULD IMPRESSION 

WALNUT 





HEART 



HALF PEACH 



LION 






The demand for fancy ices is much greater than it was a few years ago 
and to meet this demand it is necessary to have a good variety of moulds 
in stock (tig. 111). These moulds are made of white metal. 
They require careful drying each time of using, as other- 
wise they quickly corrode and give the ices an astringent flavour. Pewter 
moulds last longer. They may be obtained in all sizes, for large puddings, 
bombs, mousses, &c., or for small ices only sufficient for one person. 

To prepare a sharp frost for freezing the cream or water mixings, add 
one small shovelful of coarse salt to 
Proportions of eight shovelfuls of 
Ice and Salt. crushed ice. By add- 
ing extra salt a much sharper frost 
may be obtained, but too much salt 
quickly melts the ice. In some ice- 
freezing departments a machine is 
used for crushing the ice; this is 
suitable where a large trade is done. 
Where the turn-over for these con- 
Breaking fections is not so large, the 
the Ice. ice may be broken with a 
sharp needle ("ice prick", fig. 112), 
or placed in a wooden frame and 
pounded with a flat-bottomed pestle. 
An old tub from which the bottom 
has been removed answers the pur- 
pose, and prevents the ice from being 
wasted. Fine crushed ice is waste- 
ful; the pieces should be broken only 
to about the size of large walnuts. 

There are some machines consist- 
ing only of a closed cylinder or box. 
Stationary around wliich the ice and 
Machines. ^^\^ j^j-g packed. The cream 
or mixture to be frozen is simply 
placed in this receptacle, and allowed 

to freeze till it is set quite firm. These machines do not produce a soft, 
smooth, creamy ice, but rather one that consists of hard and soft parts. 
When using the ordinary freezer, or either of the two machines named 
Use of the above, the spatula is kept in constant use mixing the materials 
Spatula. until the mixture is ready. By adopting this method even 
water ices may be frozen to a rich creamy substance without any signs 
of coarseness. The smoothness so essential, especially with water ices, is 
not, however, the result of careful freezing only. There must be a proper 
proportion of stock syrup or castor sugar added to give the mixture body; 
otherwise it freezes hard and coarse like frozen water or milk only. To 
prevent mistakes in this direction, more especially with water ices, it is 



BASKET 






PEAR 



ORANGE 




OYSTER ASPARAGUS 

Fig. 111.— Pewter Ice Moulds 



THE PREPARATION 07 ICES 



53 



advisable to use a saccharometer for testing the density of the syrup 
(see fig. 102). Water ices are simply flavoured syrups, and use of the 
for their preparation in hot weather the flavoured mixture Saccharometer. 
should have a density of 17 to 18 degrees by the sacchar- 
ometer. The density may be two degrees higher in very 
cold weather. When finished, the frozen ice cream should 
cut like firm butter, and should be rich in flavour with- 
out any sign of hardness. 

It is necessary at times that ices should be made to 
carry long distances. When this is the case the mixture 
should contain a little less sugar. The 




Method of 
ices should be frozen carefully, then the Stacking Freezer 
freezers packed in large tubs charged with °^ ranspor . 
a weak frost — that is, the ice must not have so much salt 
with it, — then covered with a heap of plain ice over which 
a little salt is sprinkled. To keep the ice from melting 
too quickly, it should be covered with a wet sack secured 
with cord or with small nails. The greatest danger in 
transporting charged freezers for long distances by road or 
rail is that the brine from the melted ice and salt may find 

access to the contents of the freezer. Every precaution must be taken 

to prevent this. 

Ice caves are generally employed for storing various soufilt^s, or for 



Fig. 112.— Ice Prick 





Ice Caves 



For 



Ice Caves. 



sending out on order ices already dished for placing on the table 
many years oval and round caves made with galvanized iron 
painted ever have been in use in the majority of catering 
establi.shnsents. These are made with a cover which has a rim on top 
about 3 in. high, which allows a fair quantity of ice and salt to lie on top. 
Better caves are those shown in fig. 113. This is cleaner, better to handle, 



54 ICES 

and more convenient than those packed in tubs. When fancy large ices 
require decorating with one or more other kinds of cream, it is safer to 
open the door of the cave without letting in the salt water than to raise 
the cover of the other sort of cave described, on which the ice is placed. 

Before dealing with the various kinds of ices which may be prepared 
and served in many shapes and styles, it is necessary to refer to some of 
Fresh Fruits the ingredients used in the manufacture. Wherever possible, 
best for Ices, fresh fruits sbould be used rather than those preserved in 
water or syrup, or in the form of jams. When fresh fruits are out of 
season, or when the price is too high, the next best is fruit puree or fruit 
juices. With some brands of these pulps it is possible to obtain the proper 
fresh-fruit flavour and a nice bright colour. Jams, as a rule, are very 
unsatisfactory in both those respects. 

All kinds of ices may be grouped under two headings: as cream ices 
and water ices. Various cream ices, including souffles, mousses, pai'faits, 
Cream and biscuit glace, &c., are prepared with mixtures of cream, or 
Water Ices. custard and cream frozen together. Several recipes and 
methods are given below, which, if carefully followed, will give satisfaction. 

Vanilla Cream Ice 

Vanilla cream is one of the most popular ices. It is flavoured with 
specially prepared vanilla sugar, essence of vanilla, or vanilla syrup, as 
convenient. The best flavouring is that obtained by boiling the natural 
vanilla pod or bean in milk, but as this leaves small black seeds, resembling 
particles of dust, in the cream, customers not familiar wdth the nature of 
Vanilla Seeds vanilla complain of the spots and think they are dirt. It is 
in Ices. qj^ \^\^{^ account that confectioners use powdered sugar or an 

essence. In preparing this sugar it is essential to use a hair sieve, through 
which the pounded sugar and vanilla beans may be passed. Vanilla ice 
cream may be prepared as follows. Mix together in a basin 1 qt. of cream 
with 3 gills of milk; add 9 oz. of castor sugar and 2 oz. of vanilla sugar. 
Pass all through a fine sieve, and freeze with a sharp frost. 

Vanilla Custard Ice 

Vanilla custard ice is more difficult to prepare, on account of the ease 
with which the custard may be spoiled. Place in a mixing-bowl nine eggs, 
eighteen yolks, and 1 lb. of castor sugar; mix all together with a whisk, 
and while doing so add quickly 2 qt. of boiling milk flavoured with vanilla. 
Place the pan on the stove, and continue to stir the mixture until it is of 
sufficient thickness to coat the spoon. Transfer at once to a cold basin; 
add 1 pt. of cream, and allow the whole to cool before freezing. While the 
Why Custard i^i^ture is being prepared it should not be actually boiled, 
must not be as the extra cooking of the eggs causes a tendency in the 
mixture to curdle, and in this state it is useless. It is a 
matter of choice w^hether the cream is added to the boiling milk, or mixed 
in when the cold custard is ready for freezing. 



FOUR PRESIDENTS 

Samuel B. Leicester, bom in Liverpool in 1843, entered his 
father's milling and baking business, and on its transformation 
into a limited company in 1888 became managing director. The 
milling and baking businesses were then separated. Mr. Leicester, 
who is now retired from business, was an active member of the 
Liverpool Master Bakers' Association, and was President of the 
National Association in 1898-99. He is a member of the Society 
of Friends. 

William Arundel, born at Gloucester in 1840, removed to 
Birmingham at an early age. Atter serving an apprenticeship 
to baking, he started business on his own account in 1865 and 
met with great success. He retired from active work in the 
business a few years ago, and now devotes all his time to public 
work. He has been a Poor Law Guardian since 1880. He was 
Treasurer and then Chairman of the Birmingham Master Bakers' 
Association, and from its foundation has been Treasurer of the 
National Association, of which he was also President in 1907. 
He is an active member of the Primitive Methodist Church. 

Henry Smith, J. P., bom in Edinburgh in 1857, learned the 
baking trade in Pitlochry, where he now runs a flourishing business, 
founded in 1882 as a branch of one started in Leith in 1876. He 
took a leading part in forming the Scottish Association of Master 
Bakers, and was elected President in 1908. He is Chairman of 
the Pitlochry Parish Council and a member of the School Board. 

Richard Taylor is one of the leading master bakers in 
Liverpool, where he has been for several years President of the 
local Bread and Flour Trade Association. He has an excellent 
reputation as a peacemaker in trade disputes affecting prices and 
such matters. 






'- 




^ 


1 


•8 


dH^ 


* ■ : 




C 


.A\'(. 






■a 



SAM. B. LEICESTER 

(Liverpool) 



WILLIAM ARUNDEL 
(Birmingham) 




HENRY SMITH, J.P. 
(Pitlochry) 



RICHARD TAYLOR 

(LivcrjHJol) 



FOUR PRESIDENTS 



THE PREPARATION OF ICES o5 

Cheap Vanilla Custard 

A cheaper vanilla cream is prepared by mixing together 1 oz. corn flour, 
five eggs, 9 oz. castor sugar, and 2 gills cream. One quart of boiling milk 
is poured on to the mixture; then the custard is finished as described above. 
It is flavoured with vanilla essence before using. The addition of corn 
flour or gelatine to these mixtures prevents the frozen use of Gelatine 
cream from softening when exposed to tlie atmosphere, *"^ ^°^^ Flour, 
but such additions naturally reduce the richness which is obtained from 
either of the above mixtures, and if either corn flour or gelatine is used in 
excess it makes the ice tough and livery. 

Coffee Cream Ice 

By adding strong coflee essence to either of the above creams, with 
additional colouring (black jack), a rich coffee cream ice is obtained. The 
flavour may be obtained for this purpose direct from the coffee bean as 
follows. Roast some beans in a pan over a sharp fire, and when highly 
coloured drop them into the hot milk and proceed to make the custard. 
The addition of vanilla and one wineglassful of brandy to each quart of 
custard will improve the flavour. When it is not convenient to make the 
coffee flavour by this method, a strong infusion of coflee may preparinff 
be used. This is obtained by pouring boiling water through infusion 
ground coffee placed on a piece of muslin stretched across the ° ° ^^' 
top of a basin. For those ices made rich with cream, add some small coflee 
liqueurs at the time of moulding or when serving for the table. 

Strawberry Cream Icf 

Strawberry cream is another popular ice. The best flavouring is fresh 
fruit when that is in season. Pass 1| lb. of ripe strawberries through a 
fine hair sieve; add 1 qt. of cream, ^ pt. of milk, 12 oz. of fine castor sugar, 
and the juice of one lemon or a little citric acid. Colour with carmine, and 
the mixture will be ready for freezing. The quantity of fruit required to 
impart the necessary flavour depends upon its ripeness. Some varieties, 
when fully ripe, contain sufficient flavouring for 1 lb. to make 2 (\t. of 
frozen cream. 

Cheap Strawberry Ice 

Very nice strawbeny ice may be made by using milk instead of cream. 
In this CH.se a little more sugar must be used, and the mixture should be 
frozen quickly. It should be quite smooth and of a good flavour. When 
fresh fruit cannot be obtained, strawberry pulp (purc^e) will The Best 
supply the necessary flavouring. Jam is not suitable for the Flavouring, 
purpose, as it does not give much flavour, and imparts a dark colour to the 
prepared mixture. As a last resort, essence of strawberry may be used, but 
it is not very satisfactory. 



56 ICES 

Kaspberry Cream Ice 

Raspberry cream ice is prepared in the same manner as the above, but 
in place of strawberries, fresh raspberries are used, or prepared pulp, with 
a little more carmine to produce a deeper colour in the mixture. 

Banana Cream Ice 

Banana cream ice is insipid by itself, and requires to be mixed with 
kirsch and lemon juice. The fruit, which must be ripe, should be passed 
through a hair sieve, and thus made into smooth pulp, and mixed at once 
with cream, or part cream and milk, to prevent its becoming discoloured. 
Sweeten to taste with castor sugar, and freeze ready for moulding, or it 
may be served from the tub. Banana ices for dinner or other functions 
Serving in may be served in the real banana skins laid on green leaves 

Banana Skins, niade with pulled sugar. Another method is to mould them 
in two colours, green and yellow, in pewter moulds of banana shape, 
Moulding and serve at table on sugar leaves. Both methods may be 
Banana Ices, recommended. The former is, however, the most novel. The 
skin of the fruit is carefully sealed after the cream is forced in. Some 
surprise is created when an ordinary-looking banana is found to contain 
frozen ice cream. 

Pineapple Cream Ice 

Pineapple cream is made by adding fresh or tinned fruit to cream, or 
part milk and cream, with sugar and a little citric acid. Needless to say, 
the best flavour is that obtained from fresh fruit. This may at certain 
seasons be purchased at a low price, made into a syrup or pulp, and pre- 
served for future use. Bruised pineapples may be obtained ranging from 
bd. to Gd. per pound, and, after pulping, these show a better return than 
tinned fruit. 

There are many other purposes, besides flavouring ices, for which this 
fruit may be used. The best way to prepare the fruit for ices is to pound 
Preparing Pine- it in the mortar with a little milk or syrup, and then pass 
apple for Ices. ^\^^ pulp through a fine sieve before mixing with the other 
ingredients. When the cream is frozen, some small pieces of preserved 
fruit of the kind which gives the cream its name are mixed in, and it is 
then moulded as required. 

Glace a la Creme Pralinee 

For glace a la creme pralinee, roast in the oven 6 oz. of whole almonds, 
rub them on a coarse sieve, and mix them with 8 oz. of castor sugar which 
Pralinee has been boiled to a caramel in a copper sugar-boiler. Add a 

Cream Ices, small piece of vanilla bean, stir all together for a few moments 
over the stove, and then transfer to a greased marble slab. When this 
caramel is cold crush it under a rolling pin, or in the mortar. Pass the 
very fine pieces through a wire sieve and put the coarse pieces away for 
decorative purposes. Place in a basin 1 pt. cream, 1 pt. milk, and a little 



THE PREPARATION OF ICES 57 

kirscli. Stir in the caramel powder, and then freeze in the ordinary way. 
The coarse ahnonds and sugar may be mixed in at this stage, or may be 
kept for sprinkling over the moulded ices directly these are turned out of 
the moulds. 

Chocolate Cream Ice 

Chocolate cream ice is made by flavouring with unsweetened chocolate 
a mixture of cream, sugar, and milk, or vanilla custard. The colour will 
be improved by the addition of a few spots of carmine. 

Apricot Cream Ice 

Apricot cream is another rich -eating ice. It is made by mixing 
together twelve large ripe apricots, with 5 gills cream, 1 gill milk, 8 oz. 
of castor sugar, and the juice of one lemon, with a little kirsch or noyau, 
and sufficient yellow colour to give the required tint. This is passed 
through a hair sieve, and finished as required. 

Peach Cream Ice 

To make peach cream ice obtain some bruised fresh fruit, remove the 
stones, and pass the pulp, with as much of the rind as possible, through a 
hair sieve. Add some kirsch, with cream, castor sugar, and lemou juice, 
and finish as required. 

Orange Cream Ice 

For 1 qt. of orange cream ice prepare the following materials. One 
pint of cream, 7 oz. castor sugar, 1 gill milk, two large oranges, and the 
juice of half a lemon. The best method of removing the zest from the rind 
of the fruit is by rubbing this on to a piece of lump sugar. The sugar will 
quickly become saturated with the oil from the fruit, when this may be 
scraped off" with the heel of a knife and mixed with the cream. Where 
this sugar is not to be obtained, remove the zest with a special zest-scraper 
(see Vol. I, p. 335). Mix the zest with the milk, and warm on the stove. 
Pass the orange and lemon juices through a hair sieve, add the cream and 
sugar, strain on to this the hot milk; then colour with yellow and carmine, 
and finish as required. The orange flavouring should not be retained in 
the hot ujilk longer than necessary, as it will impart an unpleasant taste. 
Tangerines and lemons may be used in the same manner for flavouring 
their respective creams. 

Pistachio Cream Ice 

Prepare the following for pistachio cream ice: 1 pt. cream, 1 pt. milk, 
3 oz. ground almonds, 10 oz. castor sugar, one liqueur glass kirsch, one 
liqueur gla.SH orange-flower water, and the zest of half an orange. Bring 
half the milk to the boil, with the ground ahnonds and orange zest. Place 
all in a UKjrtar, and work together with the pestle until the mixture 
ns(iiil)le8 cream. Pass all through ;i li.iir siixc; then add the other 
Vol. II. 68 



68 ICES 

ingredients, colour with Breton green, and tiniah as re(iuired. Very 
Flavouring for little flavouring is obtained by using pistacliio nuts alone 
Pistachio Cream. f-Qj. ^^j^jg cream, and as these are much more expensive than 
ground almonds, it is not advisable to use them. 

Walnut Cream Ice 

Walnut cream ice is a favourite. It is prepared as follows. Roast 4 oz. 
of shelled walnuts, rub them in a coarse wire sieve, and chop them small. 
Mix with some frozen cream made with the following ingredients: 1 pt. 
cream, h pt. milk, 7 oz. castor sugar, half a liqueur glass of maraschino, 
with an equal quantity of rose water. Wliere necessary, the roasted 
walnuts and sugar may be roasted to a caramel, as for pralin^e or burnt- 
almond cream. 

Ginger Cream Ice 

Ginger cream ice is quickly prepared. Flavour some cream, or part 
cream and milk, with ground ginger previously mixed with syrup. 
Sweeten to taste, and when made firm in the freezer, drop in some small 
square pieces of preserved ginger, 

Brow^n-bread Cream Ice 

For brown-bread cream ice mix together 1| pt. of cream, | pt. of milk, 
7 oz. of castor sugar, one liqueur glass of maraschino, and pass the mixture 
through a hair sieve. Partly freeze in a sharp frost, and at this stage add 
■D 2 oz., or more if required, of roasted crumbs, which are obtained 

Kaw or ' T. ' ' 

Roasted by passing the crumb of a stale brown loaf through a wire sieve 
rum s. ^^^ further drying in a hot oven. Some confectioners use the 
crumbs as passed through the sieve, but it is better to roast them further 
as described above. 

Plain Biscuit Ice 

Plain biscuit ice is prepared by mixing with cream partly frozen, a 
mixture of crushed finger biscuits and almond ratafias made with part 
bitter and part sweet ground almonds. A little sherry or brandy should 
be added when mixing. 

Green-tea Ice 

To prepare green-tea ice cream, mash 1 oz, of green tea in 1 pt. of 
laoiling milk. Strain through a piece of muslin into a saucepan with 1 pt, 
of cream, 9 oz. castor sugar, a piece of vanilla bean, and six eggs. Whisk 
all together, place on the stove, and continue stirring until the mixture 
thickens; then transfer to a cold basin. Freeze and finish as required, 
using a little kirsch or maraschino to heighten flavour. 

Nesselrode Ice Pudding 

For Nesselrode ice pudding prepare a rich custard with the following: 
1 pint of milk, 3 gills cream, eight yolks, two eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, 
four bay leaves, the zest of one lemon, and a small piece of stick cinnamon. 
Strain through a fine sieve, and freeze in a sharp frost. In the meantime 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, ETC. 59 

soak some pieces of preserved fruits, cherries, greengages, apricots, and 
marron glace in a mixture of half best Jamaica rum and half maraschino. 
Mix all with the frozen cream, and mould as required. Less sugar is 
required in hot weather for this pudding, and it is advisable not to make 
the ice too rich with liqueur; otherwise it will not set tirm. 

Pear Cream Ice 

For pear cream ice bring to the boil i pt. of milk, with three bay- 
leaves, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and part of the zest of one lemon. 
Strain, and mix with 5 gills cream, 1 gill milk, and 7 oz. castor sugar. 
Take the number of preserved pears usually contained in a small tin, and 
pass these through a hair sieve. Mix all together, and finish as required. 

Cherry Cream Ice 

To prepare cherry cream ice with fresh fruit, take 8 oz. of sweet bright 
cherries and pound to a pulp with pestle and mortar. Add one liqueur 
glass of noyau, and force the juice and pulp through a hair sieve. Mix in 
1 pt. of cream, 6 oz. of castor sugar, and the juice of half a lemon; colour 
slightly with carmine, and finish quickly. When it is not required so rich, 
add custard or part cream and milk to the fruit. Bottled cherries will give 
satisfactory results where fresh fruit is not to be had, only use a little extra 
noyau. When using hard fruits, pound in the mortar, then cook in weak 
boiling syrup until tender. 

Hazel-nut Cream Ice 

Hazel-nut cream is prepared, like pralinee ice, by using roasted hazel 

nuts in place of almonds, with the addition of half a liqueur glass of rose 

water. 

Caramel Cream Ice 

Caramel cream is made by adding to custard, or a mixture of milk and 
cream, sufficient caramel sugar to colour and flavour. Place 2 or 3 oz. of 
icing sugar into a copper pan, and stir over a slow fire until it acquires a 
transparent brown colour; then add sufficient hot milk to prevent its setting 
hard. On no account should the sugar burn during the preparation. 



CHAPTER XVII 

SOUFFLfiS, MOUSSES, ETC. 

Souffles do not require freezing in a freezer or ice machine. The mix- 
ture is frozen for six or eight hours in a souffle^ cave charged with a sharp 
frost, then removed, decorated with other frozen cream, preserved 
fruits, or various kinds of nuts, and served in small paper or 
large silver cases. There are three styles of these ices. The first kind are 



60 



ICES 



made wholly of whipped cream; the second with part whipped whites of 
eggs and part cream; and the third of a light sponge made by heating 
together yolks of egg and stock syrup. The tirst kind is that made mostly 
by English confectioners. The method is as follows. Place in a mixing 
bowl 1 pt. cream, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, 3 oz. castor sugar, and whisk all 
together. When the mixture begins to thicken, transfer to the lining of 
a souffle case. Dredge on top a little powdered cocoa, place in a cave the 
outer case of which is charged with salt and ice, cover with a damp cloth, 
and allow to remain until required for use. This method is simple and 
efficient. Many kinds of souffles may be made from the san)e mixture hy 
the addition of various flavours. 

Another kind of souffle, which does not eat so rich, and yet gives satis- 
faction, is made by adding to each pint of whipped cream the whites of 
Cream and six eggs beaten to a stitf foam. As this mixture is less firm 
Egg Souffles, than that made with all cream, it will be necessary to place 
a collar of cartridge paper round the lining of the souffle case. This paper 
should be removed when serving the cream. The smooth sides of the 
frozen mixture will show above the case. On no account must the cream 
be too much whipped for these dainty dishes, as this would curdle it and 
produce a souffle with a buttery flavour and a rugged appearance. In 
warm weather, when beating the cream, have all utensils quite cold, and, 
if possible, lay the mixing-bowl upon a bed of ice. 

Souffle of Yolks 

For the third kind of souffle place in a small 
freezer six yolks, one egg, and half a pint of 
Souffles of Yolks syrup at a density of 20 degrees, 
and Syrups. After mixing these ingredients 

together, stand the freezer in a pan of boiling 
water. Allow to thicken until it coats the spoon; 
then transfer at once to a cold pan. With a 
light whisk beat the eggs and syrup together 
until the mixture becomes light like sponge 
batter. Beat until quite cold; then add half a 
pint of whipped cream; flavour with vanilla 
sugar, liqueurs, or fruit juices, and set firm in 
a case lined with a paper collar. The above 
mixture will give satisfaction for the prepara- 
tion of a large variety of souffles and other very 
light ices. It should show an even texture when cut, resembling a sponge 

cake. 

Moulded Mousses 

Corresponding to the souffle ice is that known as Mowise. This is made 
Mousse according to either of the recipes given above (generally the 
Moulds, last) and moulded in a bomb mould, as shown in tig. 114. Owing 
to this cream being light, great care is necessary when turning it out 




Fig. 114.— Bomb Mould for Ices 



WATER ICES AND SORBETS 61 

from the mould. On this account each mould is fitted with a screw top, 
which is easily removed after dipping the mould in warm water. This 
allows the air to enter, and with a little shaking the ice glides out. 

Parfait Souffles 

Another variety is known as Parfait. This ice is shaped in a mould 
slightly different from that used for the mousse. The foundation consists 
of Qgg yolks, and syrup prepared as for souffles, and mixed with Parfait 
whipped cream and flavoured with liqueurs or fruit purees. For Souffles, 
the preparation of all ices made with the cream referred to, the following 
quantities will make a useful base: twenty-five large yolks and \h pt. of 
syrup at 20 degrees. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

WATER ICES AND SORBETS 

As refreshing confections water ices are particularly pleasant. There is 
a slight difference in the several varieties. Some contain more sweetening 
than others; those which have the least are less smooth, whipped Whites 
and in a way resemble snow. Some confectioners add *" Water ices, 
whipped egg whites to plain water ices, but this does not really improve 
the eating qualities. Egg whites should not be added unless required 
as a cheapening agent. 

Lemon Water Ice 

One of the best-known water ices is that of lemon water. To prepare 
a quart, place half a pint of stock syrup in a basin, and add the zest and 
juice of three lemons. Place the saccharometer in the pan and mix in 
enough water to give the liquor a density of 18 degrees. Strain through 
a hair sieve and freeze quickly to obtain a smooth, firm, creamy ice. 

Orange Water Ice 

For a quart of orange water ice Ave require three oranges, the juice 
of half a lemon, or a little citric acid, with the same quantity of syrup 
anl witi r. Colour with yellow and carmine liquids. 

Tangerine Water Ice 

To flavour water ices with tangerines, use one orange and six small 
tangerines for each quart. 

Pineapple AV'ater Ice 

Pineapple water ice is prepared by flavouring the syrup with fresh 
or tinned pineapple, pounded fine in a mortar, or with preserved fruit 



62 ICES 

pur^e. Colour yellow, and when the ice is ready for placijag into moulds, 
or serving in paper cases, drop in some dice-shaped pieces of preserved 
fruit. 

Peach Watkr Ice 

• 

Flavour peach water with the puree obtained by passing bruised or 
bottled fruits through the hair sieve. Very good peach puree should 
be used for this purpose; some varieties are put down in glass bottles. 
Before freezing, add a little citric acid and half a liqueur glass of 
kirschwasser. 

Apricot Water Ice 

Another very nice refreshing ice is that flavoured with apricot puree 
and half a liqueur glass of kirsch or noyau. Colour with yellow and 
carmine. 

Melon Water Ice 

To prepare melon water ice remove the pulp from the inner rind of 
a large ripe melon. Pass this pulp through a hair sieve, and add three 
gills of syrup, the rinds of two oranges, a glass of maraschino, a little 
citric acid, and sufficient water to make the mixture of a density of 
18 degrees on the saccharometer. 

Strawberry Water Ice 

Strawberry water ice is a popular favourite. For this pass 1 lb. of ripe 
fruit through a hair sieve, add a pint of syrup, a little acid, and the 
usual quantity of water to produce a density of 18 on the saccharometer. 
Colour with carmine. 

Raspberry and Red-currant Ice 

Another well-known ice is that flavoured with raspberries and red 
currants. Pass through a hair sieve 1 lb. of raspberries, and ^ lb. of red 
currants. Add 1^ pint of stock syrup, colour with carmine, mix to the 
usual density with water, and add a few drops of citric acid. 

Cherry Water Ice 

For cherry water ice obtain the flavouring by pounding fresh or bottled 
cherries, pass the pulp through a tammy or a hair sieve, and mix with 
nOyau, syrup, and the necessary water. Sharpen with citric acid and colour 
with carmine. 

Sorbet 

Another variety of water ice is known as sorbet. This is mostly made 
with less syrup, and frozen rough to resemble snow. The ices are some- 
times made to serve in small glasses, flavoured strongly with choice liqueurs. 
These are generally handed round at the dinner-table before the roast is 
served. 



WATER ICES AND SORBETS 63 

Lemon Sorbet 

To make lemon sorbet prepare lemon water ice with a syrup of a 
density of 15 degrees. Before serving in glasses add the whites of two 
eggs partly whipped. 

Pineapple Sorbet 

When preparing pineapple sorbet add half a liqueur glass of brandy, 
with an equal quantity of maraschino, to each quart of ice. 

Sorbet au Champagne 

Sorbet au champagne is prepared by adding half a pint of champagne 
and a glass of kirsch to a quart of frozen lemon water. When ready for 
serving, drop in some pieces of fresh pineapple, with a few Muscat grapes 
and small strawberries or cherries. 

Orange Sorbet 

For orange sorbet prepare a quart of orange water of strength 15 
degrees, and before serving add two glasses of Marsala wine, with pieces of 
orange from which the pips and rind have been removed. 

Grape Sorbet 

For grape sorbet mix 6 oz. of ripe Muscat grapes with a quart of 

elder-flower syrup of strength 15 degrees. Sharpen with acid or lemon 

Juice, add a glass of sherry, and pass through a hair sieve. Prepare in 

a sharp frost and serve with Muscat grapes; add one piece of fruit to each 

glass. The stones should be removed from the fruit before mixing with 

the sorbet. 

Millefruit Sorbet 

The water ice for millefruit sorbet is flavoured with sherry and elder- 
flower syrup (see Vol. I, p. 334). When ready for serving, add some finely- 
cut mixed fruits, either fresh or preserved in sugar. 

Granite Sorbet 

Granite water ice is very similar to sorbets. The mixture is prepared 
with a density of 16 degrees, and is left in the machine and only stirred 
occasionally while freezing. On this account the mixture is very rough 
when served; hence the name of granite. 

Water ices, when served in a semi-frozen con.sistency, are very refresh- 
ing, and the rule is to serve them just before the roast. Besides flavouring 
with various wines and liqueui-s, fruit pulps, coffee and tea essences may 
be used. The ices are served in fancy cups or small glasses. 



64 



ICES 



CHAPTER XIX 

MOULDED ICES AND PUDDINGS 



Moulding ices is not a difficult task; but when 
two or three kinds of frozen cream or water 
Preparing mixture are added to one mould, 

Moulds for Ices, caution is necessary to keep each 
colour distinct. For this purpose the moulds 
should be quite cold before using, and for some 
purposes it is advisable to partly bury them in 
some finely broken ice and salt. This precaution 
is essential when lining a bomb or other mould 
with a thin layer of water ice before filling the 
centre with a light mousse. 

Neapolitan Ices 




Fig. 115.— Large Ice Mould 





For the preparation of these ices it is necessary to use a mould as 
shown in fig. 116. Generally three different coloured ices are placed in 
Order of Layers layers to fill the mould, which is then covered with a sharp 
in Mould. fi-ost. Within 

two hours the ice cream will 
be frozen hard, and ready for 
turning out from the mould 
and cutting into convenient 
pieces. Place each into a 
Neapolitan paper, or shallow 
box, and serve on a napkin 
or dish paper. It is advisable, 
when using one water and 
two cream ices for these 
moulds, to place a layer of 
the former in the centre of 
the two creams, as this 
method enables the frozen mixture to be cut into pieces more easily than 
if water ice is placed at the bottom. 

Bomb Dahomey Ice — Bombe Dahomeenne 

To prepare the ice Bombe Dahomeenne, line a mould with chocolate 
cream; fill the centre with a rich pralinee cream made according to the 
Taking Ices third recipe; cover over with a piece of paper, fix on the lid, 
from Moulds, ^nd cover the mould with a strong frost. Allow^ this to 
remain for four hours; then remove the mould, dip into warm water, and 
turn the cream out on a dish. 





iiimiiiii 



Fig. 116. — Neapolitan Ice Mould 



MOULDED ICES 

1. Pineapple Ice. 

2. Fancy Shape made with Chocolate and Pistachio Cream Ices. 

3. Ice Pudding. 

4. Comtesse Marie Ice. 

5. Mixed Ice. 

6. Fancy Shapes consisting of Lemon Water Ice with Orange 

Cream centre. 

7. Bundle of Asparagus. 









^ 



\ \ 





MOULDED ICES 



! 



MOULDED ICES AND PUDDINGS 



as, 



Melon Ice Pudding 

Another very nice shape is made in a melon 
mould (fig. 117). Line the mould with pistachio 
cream ice, and fill in the centre with melon water 
ice, coloured pink and mixed with some thin filleted 
almonds. When ready, turn out on a dish and 
decorate with tendrils and green leaves made with 
pulled sugar. 

Brazilian Ice — Glace Bresilien 




Fig. 117.— Melon Ice Mould 



This ice is made the shape of a piece of Gruyere cheese. Line a special 
mould shaped like a small cheese with chocolate cream, fill in the centre 
with vanilla cream, and cover with ice and salt for two 
hours. 

Pineapple Ice — Glace Ananas 

Fill a pineapple mould (fig. 118) with a rich cream 
with which small pieces of fruit have been mixed. When 
ready, turn out on a dish, fix on top a bunch of green 
pulled-sugar leaves, and cover the sides with small eyes 
made by touching the ice with a skewer dipped in caramel 
and carmine. (See the plate of Moulded Ices.) 

Italian Ice — Glace Italien 




Fig. 118.— Pineapple 
Ice Mould 



Line a bomb mould with pineapple water ice, and fill in with coffee 
cream made according to the third recipe for souffles (see p. 60). 

Glace le Mogador 

Line a charlotte mould with coffee cream. Fill in with apricot water 
ice, and, when turned out on a dish, decorate 
with chopped roasted almonds and pistachio 
nut. 

Glace Comtesse Marie 

Prepare a square ice mould (fig. 119) with 

peach or orange water, arrange this in a thin 

layer, and fill in with a light souffle mixture 

flavoured with kirsch. When ready, turn out 

on a silver dish; ornament the top with small 

flowers and leaves. Finish by piping on a 

border with vanilla cream ice. (See plate of 

Moulded Ices.) 

Glack Cronstadt 




Fig. 119 — Hkiuare Ice Mould 



Cover the inside of a bomb mould with apricot water ice; fill in 

with rich mousse filling, flavoured with kirsch. Freeze solid for three 

hours; then turn out and decorate with crushed violets. 

Vol. II. 69 



66 



ICES 




Fig. 120.— Plombifere Mould 



Apricot Plombiere 

Line a Plombiere mould (fig. 120) with apricot 
cream ice, till in the centre with apricot conserve, 
cover with a layer of cream, and set in a sharp frost 
for three hours. When dished, serve with a sauce 
made with apricot pulp and kirsch. 

Tutti-Frutti Glac^ 

Trim some finger biscuits, sprinkle some kirsch 
over them, and line a plain charlotte mould. Fill 
with alternate layers of lemon water, strawberry, and 
vanilla cream ices, with a layer of mixed fruits, cur- 
rants, raisins, and chopped apricots between the ice 
layers. Place in the ice cave to set firm before serving. 
The mixed fruit should be soaked in maraschino and 
kirsch prior to using. 

Biscuit Imperial Glace 

The most suitable utensils for the preparation of these choice ices are a 
square wooden box with a small hole near the bottom, and an ice cave about 
3 in. smaller to place inside, with a deep collar round the border to keep in 
the frost. Small oblong paper boxes, or small souffle cases, may be used 
for the biscuits. Prepare as follows. Three gills of syrup (at 20 degrees 
by saccharometev) and twelve yolks are made into a rich sponge batter, as 
directed in the third recipe for souffles. Charge the square tub and cave 
with a sharp frost; remove the cover, and lay in position the number of 
small paper boxes as required. These should be laid close together, with 
a thin wood or zinc baton placed on either side to prevent the cream from 
flowing over. Prepare some whipped cream, thin it with vanilla syrup and 
maraschino, and pour a little on to the bottom of each paper box. Take 
part of the egg mixture; flavour strongly with kirsch, and add to it some 
whipped cream. Pour this also into the paper cases. This cream should 
cover the shallow boxes entirely and half-way up the sides of the batons. 
Cover over, and leave for two hours to set firm; in the meantime flavour 
the remainder of the biscuit cream with maraschino, add some whipped 
cream, and colour a delicate tint with carmine. Fill in the frames with 
this sponge, and cover over until ready for the next operation. When 
quite firm, remove the ices from the cave, separate from the batons with 
a sharp knife, and cut each biscuit apart. Decorate with crushed violets or 
pistachio, and return to the cave until required for use. Instead of using 
violets, a nice finish may be given by masking the tops with thin red water 
ice. 



MOULDED ICES AND PUDDINGS 



67 
















Fig. 121.— Fancy Ice Moulds 



68 ICES 

Dutch Biscuits— Biscuits Hollandaises 

Prepare some small souffle cases, place round each a collar of white 
paper, till in with a biscuit cream flavoured with kirsch, and place in a 
tub and cave for three hours. When quite firm, pour some water ice (in 
a semi-frozen condition) on each. Place away to remain ten minutes for 
the covering to set; then remove the paper bands and serve. 

Forced Tangerines 

Obtain some small bright-coloured tangerines. Cut the top of each 
with a |-in. plain cutter, remove the cut piece of rind, and with a small tea- 
spoon remove the pulp from inside. Place these away into a cave charged 
with frost, and proceed to prepare some tangerine cream ice. When the cases 
have frozen, remove from the cave, and with a forcing-bag and plain tube 
fiiU each with the prepared ice. Place the small piece of rind in position to 
cover the hole, and serve at once; or decorate each with a small tendril and 
green leaf made with pulled sugar. 

Small Peach Ices 

Small peach ices are made by lining small peach-shaped moulds with 
peach water ice coloured a very pale green. The centre is filled in with 
caramel cream flavoured with kirsch, and frozen for thirty minutes in a 
sharp frost. Turn the ices out with warm water, and colour each by 
touching the sides with a muslin bag containing a mixture of powdered 
carmine and corn flour. There are a large variet}'' of both large and small 
fancy moulds with which some very neat and natural shapes may be 
prepared and dished on sugar or nougat stands; or stands may be pre- 
pared by freezing coloured water in suitable moulds, in which case, of 
course, they are really ice stands. 

Punch a la Romaine 

For Punch a la Romaine prepare 1 qt. of lemon water ice at a strength 
of 16 degrees. Mix in h pt. of champagne, i gill of rum, and some Italian 
meringue made with two whites and a little boiled syrup. Whisk all 
together; add extra lemon juice if the mixture is too sweet, and serve at 
once in small fancy glasses. 

Another recipe for the preparation of this punch is as follows: one 
pint of frozen lemon water, J gill of cura^oa, i gill of brandy, h gill of rum, 
and a little Italian meringue. Some caterers add a strong infusion of green 
tea in addition to the other ingredients referred to. 



HORS D'CEUVRES 69 

CHAPTER XX 

HORS D'CEUVRES 

A great many bakers and confectioners have found a profitable outlet 
for capital and energy in opening restaurants and in catering for social 
functions. As a rule, even middle-class people when Restaurant and 
they wish to entertain friends on any extensive scale Outdoor Catering, 
prefer to place the whole arrangements in the hands of a competent 
caterer rather than endeavour to do all the work with the ordinary 
household staff. The caterer supplies the whole plant and all the service 
for preparation and for entertaining, and gives the hostess no great trouble 
except paying the very moderate bill which is now the rule. This branch 
of the business is exceedingly ramified, and it is not the intention in the 
present work to supply either a complete cookery book or complete 
instructions, say, for conducting a large residential hotel. The functions 
undertaken by the baking and confectionery trades are roughly divided into 
two quite distinct branches. The restaurant business may be of the light- 
refreshment sort, in which the viands provided are usually cold; or it may 
be a restaurant proper, in which substantial meals are provided. Outside 
catering may be confined to functions, such as formal receptions, at which 
only light refreshments are provided, or light suppers requiring only cold 
snacks; or it may be so elaborate as to include full luncheons or dinners. 
All these functions will be dealt with in due course; but as following on 
from the methods of preparation of desserts and sweets, the preparation 
of substantial dishes for the I'estaurant or dinner table will first be given. 

Hors d'oeuvres are commencing dishes intended to 
1 1 ,-i rni 11 1 11 Hors d'CEuvres. 

whet the appetite. Ihey are usually served on small 

plates, one to each person. 

HuixRES AU Naturel 

Hultres an Naturel are oysters served in their shells (either the deep 

or the flat shell; the latter is most used), and should be provided at the 

rate of four for ladies and five for gentlemen. Cut a lemon into eight 

parts, and place one piece in the centre of each plate with the oysters 

round it. Slices of brown bread and butter, either folded or rolled, must 

be served with them. 

Lax sur CroCtks 

Lax sur Crodtea are slices of salmon preserved in oil on croAtes of short 
paste, cut into finger shapes, and garnished with chopped pai-sley and hard- 
boiled yolk of egg passed through a sieve. 

Canapk a la Zanzibar 

Take some small diamond-shaped water biscuits and spread over them 
a thin layer of chutney. Whip sufficient cream to cover then>, mixing in 



70 MENU DISHES 

with the cream a little grated horse radish, vinegar, pepper, and salt to 
taste; add just enough melted aspic jelly to make it set, then spread it over 
the chutney. Lay small strips of smoked salmon across, and a caper 
between each two vows. Dish on small cress, one to each person. 

Smoked Salmon — Saumon Fume 

Saumon FuviS is smoked salmon, a favourite hors d'oeuvre with Jews. 
Cut in very thin slices, and dish either on a mound of small salad or on 
croutes. Slices of brown bread and butter should accompany it if not 
served on croutes. 

BoLOGNE Sausage — Saucisson de Bologne 

Saucissons de Bologne are thin slices of Bologne sausage dished neatly 
on a layer of small salad. Other sausages may be served in the same way, 
such as Lyons, German, &c., but of course the name must be altered accord- 
ingly. 

Croutes a la Rosamonds 

Take some small round tomatoes, and cut in slices i in. thick. Lay in 
a dish, and sprinkle with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Then make some 
round crovltes of short paste a little larger than the tomato; place one slice 
of tomato on each, a rolled fillet of anchovy on the top, and garnish with 
hard-boiled yolk of egg and a small piece of white endive. 

HutTRES Au Caviar 

HuUres au Caviar are oysters on thin slices of lemon spread with 

caviar on a croute of fried bread or pastry, and dished on small cress, one 

on each plate. 

CroOtes a la Burlington 

Croutes a la Burlington are oval-shaped croutes spread with some 
finely-chopped chicken in Tartar sauce, garnished with a strip of tomato 
and whipped cream, and a stuffed olive cut in half on top. 

Croutes aux Olives Farcies 

These are stuffed olives served on croiites of short crust, spread with 
anchovy paste, and garnished with hard-boiled yolk and white of egg. 

Tartines de Caviar 

Tartines de Caviar are small sandwiches of brown bread and butter 
spread with Russian caviar. They are cut into fancy shapes, and garnished 
with pieces of lemon and parsley. 

Caviar sur Croutes 

This is Russian caviar spread on finger-shaped croutes, and piped round 
the edge with butter. It is dished on small cress. 



PREPARATION OF SOUPS 71 

Croutes a la Marie 

Pass a small tureen of foie gras through a fine wire sieve. Put in a 
basin, add pepper and salt, and then stir in gently half a gill of cream. 
Pipe with a star tube on to a round croute of short crust; garnish with 
dried cherries cut in strips and with whipped cream. 

Little Salad of Prawns — Petite Salade de Crevettes 

Shred some lettuce very fine with a little endive and small cress. Mix 
with mayonnaise sauce, and fill a small fancy paper case. Place a prawn 
on the top, having previously taken the shell from the tail, decorate with 
beetroot and cucumber, and sprinkle over with lobster coral. 

Russian Salad in Cases — Petites Caisses a la Russe 

Prepare a Macedoine of vegetables as directed in last recipe. Then cut 
some small dice of cooked chicken, together with some cooked salmon, 
anchovies, and a little small cress (if preferred, add some caviar); put all 
into a basin, season and mix lightly with mayonnaise sauce with wliich a 
little anchovy essence has been previously mixed. Place in small oval or 
round paper cases, and sprinkle over with lobster coral. 

A great many other dishes suitable for hors d'oeuvres may be taken 
from the cold savouries. 



CHAPTER XXI 

PREPARATION OF SOUPS 
Clear or Gravy Soup 



Take 30 lb. of leg of beef and a small knuckle of veal, remove the meat 
from the bone, break up the bones and put them into the stock-pot with 
the legs and carcasses of two chickens. Next cut up the meat into squares, 
and place it with the bones, keeping a third back, and pour on to it 30 qt. 
of cold water. Put the stock-pot on a good fire, and covei*. Next place 
^ lb. of butter into a braising pot; when melted, put in the meat kept back 
for the purpose, and braise over a sharp fire to a nice brown colour; then 
throw this also into the stock-pot, which by this time should be nearly 
boiling. When just on the boil, ease the meat a little by pushing a 
skimmer down, and slightly lift it to assist the scum to rise to the top; 
take oft' every particle of scum, and after it has boiled for a Clearing the 
minute or two throw in a quart of cold water. This will fetch Stock, 
up any scum that has not previously come to the surface. Let it boil for 
about ten minutes to make sure of taking oft* all the scum; then move 
gently on to a cooler part of the stove or, better .still, on to a gas stove 
of sufficient heat only to keep it on the simmer, as quick boiling would 



72 MENU DISHES 

tend to cloud it. Let it simmer gently for five hours. Then cut up 
5 carrots, 2 turnips, 7 medium-sized onions, 1 good head of celery, and add 
8 blades of mace, a dessertspoonful of whole allspice, 3 of black pepper, a 
few sprigs of thyme, 2 cloves of garlic, and 6 bay leaves; place all into the 
pot, and bring to the boil; then let simmer as before for 1| hour. Next 
strain through a cloth into flat dry pans, and place in a cool place for 
future use. This, being seasoned and coloured, is the foundation or gravy 
Julienne and Clear soup, as it is called, from which a good niany clear soups 
Ox-Tail Soups. are made. For ordinary shop use the above soup is 
generally served as Julienne by adding the garnish, and as clear ox-tail by 
adding pieces of cooked ox-tail and vegetables. For dinner parties a much 
stronger soup is required, and it is necessary to proceed as follows. 

Consomme a la Julienne 

Take 2 lb. of gravy beef, cut all the sinews out, pass through a mincing 
machine along with 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, and 1 leek. Put all in a 
bowl with the whites of two eggs. Take 5 qt. of stock or gravy, previously 
made, just warm this, and stir all together; put into a stewpan, and keep 
stirring until it boils. Remove to the side of the stove, and continue 
simmering for 2| hours; then strain through a cloth, removing any grease 
by laying pieces of kitchen paper on top; season with salt * and a little 
sugai'. The consomme should now be of a clear bright colour. Cut tlie 
red part of two carrots, the same quantity of turnips, and two leeks in thin 
shreds a good inch long; put into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter and a 
pinch of sugar; stir over the fire until of a nice light brown colour; moisten 
with the consomme, and simmer gently for half an hour. Ten minutes 
before serving add some shredded cabbage and lettuce, previously blanched 
by lying in boiling water for a minute; simmer for a few more minutes; 
take oft' the butter, and serve. 

Consomme a la Jardiniere 

Take two carrots and two turnips; scrape and wash and cut into fancy 
shapes with cutters. Cut the firm white head of a cauliflower into small 
flowerettes, blanch them by placing them in boiling water for three or 
four minutes, strain and put into 3 qt. of consomme, and simmer for thirty 
minutes; then add the white leaves of two lettuces stamped out with a 
cutter the size of a sixpence, and a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. 
Continue boiling until these are cooked. Before sending to table, place in 
the tureen a few green peas previously cooked; season to taste, and serve. 

Consomme a la Brunoise 

Prepare as for Consomme a la Julienne, but cut the vegetables (carrots, 
turnips, leeks, and French beans) into small dice, and fry them in a pan to 
a light-brown colour with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of sugar, and a 
little salt. Throw in the consomme, and boil until the vegetables are done. 
Remove the butter, and serve. 



PREPARATION OF SOUPS 73 

Spring Soup — Consomm^ a la Printaniere 

Prepare as for Jardiniere, adding to the vegetables a few sorrel leaves 
stamped out like the lettuce, and place in the tureen with the peas the 
same quantity of asparagus heads previously cooked. 

Consomme a la Chiffonade 

Remove the tillets of two young chickens, and boil in some good stock. 
Chop the remainder of the chicken bones, and mix with the clarification (as 
for Julienne); simmer for 2i hours and strain; then add the white leaves 
of two cabbage lettuces, a few leaves of sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, 
and a little celery, all shredded fine. Boil until cooked, season, and serve. 
Care should be taken to keep this soup of a delicate flavour. 

Consomme a la D'Esclignac 

Break into a basin six yolks of eggs with a little pepper and salt; beat 
together for a second or two; then add a gill of cold liquid consomm^, pour 
into a plain buttered mould, and place into a tightly-covered stewpan con- 
taininir 1 inch of boiling water. Remove to the side of the stove so as to 
keep just under boiling-point (as by boiling the custard curdles). Leave 
until it is firm in the centre; when cold, cut into shapes, mix with squares 
of cooked turnip, and add to consomm^. 

Clear Soup with Custard — Consomm^ a la Royale 
Consommd a la Royale is the same as above, omitting the turnip. 

Consomme aux Profiteroles 

Take a little petit chou or Eclair mixture (see Vol. I, p. 397), and stir in 
a little grated Parmesan cheese. Pipe this out on a baking sheet, with a 
bag and small tube, in pieces about the size of peas, and bake to a golden 
colour. These little balls are thrown into the consomnn^ at the last minute. 
If kept too long in the soup, they become sodden, and are, of course, spoiled. 

Clear Soup with Quenelles — Consomm^ aux Quenelles 

Cc/nsommd aux Quenelles has, in its ordinary form, very small que- 
nelles either of chicken, beef, or veal. For ConsommS de Gibier aux 
Quenelles, of course, quenelles of game nmst be used. It will be found 
best to shape them with two teaspoons. Spread one spoon with a knife, 
and with the other spoon, previously dipped in hot water, divide in half the 
one that is spread ; place on a sauted pan, cover with boiling clear stock, and 
simmer for five minutes. 

Clear Vermicelli Soup — Consomm^ au Vermicelle 

Take 2 oz. vermicelli, break it into the lengths required, and place it in 
boiling water. Continue boiling for five minutes, then throw into a ba-sin 
of cold water, strain and put with 2 qt. of consommt^; bring to the boil, 

Vol. II 70 



74 MENU DISHES 

skim off any froth that may rise to the top, and simmer gently until the 
vermicelli is cooked. This soup should be served with grated Parmesan 
cheese served on a separate plate. 

Clear Macaroni Soup — Consommi^: au Macaroni 

This should be prepared in the same way as the preceding, only adding 
to the boiling of the macaroni a pat of butter and a little salt and pepper. 
It will take about thirty-five minutes to cook. Cheese should accompany 
this also; in fact it should accompany any soup that has a garnish of paste. 

Consomme a la Liiilie 

Place in the tureen some shredded chicken, carrot, a little tarragon 
previously cooked, and some shredded blanched almonds. Pour on the 
boilinix consomme and serve. 

Consomme Pompadour 

Cut some carrots and turnips into small fancy shapes. Cook and mix 
with some small shapes of steamed whites and yolk of egg, as for a la 
Royale (having only half the amount of consomme for the whites), and 
colour a little of each before steaming. Keep the coloura very pale. Place 
all into a tureen and pour on boiling consomm^. 

Consomme a la Princesse 

Consomme a la Princesse contains small quenelles of chicken which 
have been made from the fillets of two chickens, the bones, &c., having 
been used wnth the clarification and reduced until a good chicken flavour is 
produced. Strain, and add to the quenelles some fancy shapes of carrots 
and turnips and a few green peas. 

Consomme a la Palestine 

This has a garnish of Jerusalem artichokes (cut into small balls with a 
vegetable scoop) previously cooked and placed in the tureen. 

Consomme a la Valetta 

This has a garnish of slices of Tangerine oranges and shredded peel 
of the same. Care should be taken to remove all pips. 

Consomme a la Nivernaise 

Take two good carrots, shape into pieces the size of an olive, and boil 
for ten minutes. Strain and throw into 3 qt. of boiling consomme. Cut 
three turnips in the same way and place in a saute pan with a pat of 
butter and a pinch of sugar. Shake over the fire until of a golden-brown 
•colour; put also in consomme and simmer gently until they are done. 
Cook some very small Brussels sprouts and place in a tureen, after remov- 
ing the butter from the surface of the consomme; season and serve. If the 
price allows, some very small quenelles of game should be added. 



PKEPARATION OF SOUPS 75 

Consomme Dauphine 

This is a chicken consomme, with a o^arnish of custard cut into shapes 
along with asparagus heads and a few tarragon leaves. 

Clear Ox-tail Soup — Consomme aux Queuks de Bceuf 

Cut an ox-tail through the joints, and cut the large pieces again. 
Blanch for fifteen minutes and cook in 3 qt. of consomme. Skim well 
all the time. When nearly done add some pieces of carrot and turnip, and 
simmer until all are cooked. Remove the fat, season, and serve. 

Clear Mock Turtle Soup — Consomme Tortue Fausse 

Take half a calf's head, remove the brains and tongue, take off the scalp 
in one piece, wash and place in a stewpan, with 3 qt. of water and 3 qt. of 
stock; add ^ oz. basil, ^ oz. marjoram, 2 blades of mace, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 
1 turnip, a sprig of thyme, 2 bay leaves, and a little parsley and celery. 
Bring to the boil and simmer until the scalp is cooked. This will take 
from two and a half to three houi-s. When done, lift out and place between 
two dishes with a weight on top to press, set to get cold, let the remainder 
of the stock boil another hour, then clarify in the usual way, adding, if 
required, a quart of consomm^. Cut the pressed pieces of scalp into li-in. 
squares, and before sending to table season and add a gill of good sherry. 

Clear Turtle Soup— Consomm^ Tortus 

The following directions are given for killing, dressing, and preparing 
turtle for soup, though it is advisable, unless very large quantities are 
required, to procure it from turtle dealers, where any quantit}'^ of fresh 
meat can always be had. Take a turtle of about 70 or 80 lb.; kill it 
by cutting off the head, and allow it to bleed for some hours; then lay the 
turtle on its back and cut between the two shells, working round the edge 
of the belly shell. Take off this shell and remove all the inside, taking 
care not to lose any of the green fat, which must be put to 
steep in cold water. Cut off the fins and remove the fleshy 
parts, divide the shell into several pieces, and place head, fins, and pieces 
of the shell in a pot of boiling water. Boil for ten minutes; then take 
each piece out and remove the thin shell; place all in a stock-pot, giving 
plenty of water, and boil until tender; remove the meat, and press; put the 
bones back and continue boiling until very strong. Add an equal tjuantity 
of good consommf^, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves, white pepper, 4 oz, green 
basil, 2 oz. marjoram, 1 oz. lemon thyme, and a handful of parsley; continue 
boiling for 1^ hour, adding half a bottle of good sherry; season and strain, 
and keep for use. Cut the cold pressed turtle meat into pieces not less 
than 1^ in. square, and allow to sinnner for twenty minutes before serving. 
Lemon cut in pieces should accompany this soup. 



76 MENU DISHES 

Clear Game Soup — Consomme be Gibier 

Remove the fillets of two pheasants and one partridge. Chop the 
remainder up and place in a stewpan, with 1 oz. of fresh butter, 2 carrots, 

1 turnip, 1 onion, and 1 leek; braise over a brisk fire for a few minutes, 
stirring all the time; then add 4 qt. consomme, bring all to the boil, skim 
and remove to the side of the stove to simmer gently for two hours. In the 
meantime make some very small quenelles from the fillets and place in 
a tureen ready for use; strain the soup, and, if required, clarify with two 
whites of eggs, add a wineglassful of good sherry, season, and pour on to 
the quenelles in the tureen. Any other game may be prepared in the same 
way as above. 

Thick Tomato Soup — Puree de Tomates 

Take two each of carrots, turnips, and onions; slice with a little ham 
and place in a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter and a few parsley roots. Stir 
over the fire for ten minutes; then add 2 qt. of stock and 10 ripe tomatoes. 
Boil gently for two and a half hours; then pass through a hair sieve; 
return to the stewpan, and, if required, add a little roux; season, and 
serve. 

Thick Mock Turtle Soup— Potage Tortue Fausse 

Take a calf's head and remove the scalp, tongue, and brain. Chop the 
remainder up and place with the scalp in a large oval pot containing 6 qt. 
of water, and continue simmering gently until the scalp is tender. This 
will take about two hours. Lift out and place on a dish. Press and place 
in a cool place until wanted. Let the remainder continue boiling for one 
hour. In the meantime strain and place in a braising pot 6 carrots, 4 
onions, 3 turnips, 1 head of celery, 2 cloves of garlic, 2 cloves, 2 bay leaves, 

2 blades of mace, a few whole spice, black pepper, 1 oz. basil, h oz. mar- 
joram, I oz. thyme, some sliced ham, and h lb. of butter. Place the pot 
over a brisk fire and continue stirring until of a nice golden-brown colour; 
then stir this into the stock and boil for one hour. Remove to the side 
and add sufficient brown roux to thicken. It should be of the consistency 
of a thin sauce. Boil for half an hour longer, then pass through a tammy 
cloth into another stewpan; place on the fire and bring to the boil, remov- 
ing all scum, and stand on the stove side to allow any fat to come to the 
top. Remove the fat, then add seasoning and half a bottle of sherry, also 
a little lemon juice. Ten minutes before serving throw in pieces of scalp 
cut into l|-in. squares and a few forcemeat balls. 

Thick Ox-tail Soup — Potage aux Queues de Bceuf 

Take two good ox-tails and cut into pieces about 1 in. long — the large 
pieces of course must be divided into four. Place into a braising pan with 
4 carrots, 2 small turnips, 3 onions, 1 head of celery, a little basil, mar- 
joram, and thyme, a handful of parsley, 2 bay leaves, 2 blades of mace, and 
some black peppercorns, I lb. butter, and a thick slice of ham. Give them 
a good braising over a sharp fire; then stir into 4 qt. of good stock, and 



PREPARATION OF SOUPS 77 

simmer gently until the meat is thoroughly done. Lift out, and finish the 
soup as for mock turtle (omitting the sherry). Add a teaspoonful of mush- 
room ketchup and a small glass of port wine. Put in at the last minute 
the pieces of tail and some mixed vegetables previously cooked. 

Thick Grouse Soup — Potagk aux Coqs ue Bruyere 

Take four grouse and roast them. When cooked, reuiove all the meal 
from the bones, the latter to be placed in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, 
an onion, a carrot, a little celery, 3 cloves, 2 shallots, a blade of mace, and a 
sprig of thyme. Simmer these over the lire for a quarter of an hour; then 
pour in 2 qt. of good stock, simmer for two hours, then strain. While this 
is being done, cook three tablespoonfuls of rice in a good stock; mix the 
meat with it (except the tillets, which must be cut into dice to go into the 
soup when tinished), and pound in a mortar; then add to the stock made 
from the bones. Boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time; then pass 
through a hair sieve or tammj^ cloth; season, and add a gill of cream; then 
serve. 

Thick Partridge Soup — Potage aux Perdreaux 

Prepare as for above, substituting partridges for grouse. If desired, 
small cjuenelles of game may be added to these soups. This addition makes 
a good tinish. 

PuKASANT Soup — Potage aux Faisans 
This is made in the same way as for grouse soup. 

Rabbit Soup — Potage aux Lapereau 

Roast two rabbits. When done, remove the meat. Chop the bones and 
boil them with a carrot, a small onion, a turnip, a little thyme, some parsley, 
a blade of mace, and 3 qt. of good white stock for an hour; then strain and 
add the pounded meat and half a cup of pearl barley which has been 
previously cooked for the purpose. Simmer the whole for twenty minutes; 
then pass through a tammy cloth; season, and add ^ pt. of cream. 

Hare Soup — Potage de Lievre 

Take a good-sized hare and cut into pieces. Place in a stewpan, with 
2 can-ots, 2 onions, a head of celery, a sprig of thyme, 2 bay leaves, a blade 
of mace, 3 cloves, and \ lb. butter. Fry all these of a light-brown colour; 
sprinkle a handful of flour over, and moisten with half a pint of port wine; 
then add 3 qt. of good stock; bring to the boil; simmer gently for two 
hours, taking care to remove the butter as it comes to the top. Take out 
the pieces of hare when done; put the best pieces aside and pound the 
remainder; then stir the pounded meat in the soup again, pass through 
a tammy cloth, sea.son, and add pieces of hare kept back for this purpose. 
If desired, small forcemeat balls can be added to this soup. 



78 MENU DISHES 

Ox-cheek Soup— Potage A la Hessk 

Prepare as for ox-tail soup, adding to the vegetables some small button 
onions and pieces of the ox cheek. 

Prince of Walks Soup — Potage a la Prince ue Galles 
This is mock-turtle soup, with (juenelles of veal added. 

Queen Soup — Puree a la Reine 

Take two fowls and boil for an hour in chicken stock with a little vege- 
table. Remove the fillets and pound the remainder with some boiled rice. 
Return to the stock, boil for one hour, then pass through a tammy, make 
hot, season, and add a gill of cream to each quart of soup. Small dice of 
fried bread should accompany these soups. 

Potage a la Bonne Femme 

Put 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan. When melted, add four lettuce leaves 
and a handful of sorrel, previously shredded as for Julienne. Stir over the 
fire for ten minutes: then add 2 qt. of good chicken broth; boil for an hour. 
Remove from the fire and add eight yolks of eggs mixed with | pt. of 
cream, 1 oz. fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar. Stir the soup over the fire 
to cook the thickening, season, and pour into a tureen. Add some dried 
crusts of French roll cut small. 

Thick Asparagus Soup — Puree d'Asperges 

Take a good bundle of spring asparagus. Wash and cut up, and place 
in 2 qt. of boiling veal stock. Continue boiling until the asparagus is quite 
cooked; then rub through a tammy. Season, and add a little spinach green 
to give it a delicate green colour, and serve with croutons of fried bread. 

Scotch Broth — Potage a l'Ecossaise 

Cut up a neck of mutton, and, after removing the best of the cutlet 
meat, put in a stewpan with 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, 1 leek, parsley, 
and thyme. Boil for three hours. When time allows, this stock should be 
prepared the day before it is wanted, as the fat can then be easily removed. 
The cutlet meat which has been kept back should be cut into small cutlets, 
and cooked with 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 1 leek, and 1 head of celery. 
Cut into small dice and add about a breakfast-cupful of Scotch barley 
previously boiled for a quarter of an hour. Add the broth, and cook until 
all are tender; season and throw in a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

American Soup — Potage a lAmlricaine 

This is a white chicken soup with some puree of tomato added, and also 
some pieces of chicken and skinned tomato cut into dice. 



VEGETABLE SOUPS 7.9 

CHAPTER XXII 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Chestnut Soup — Puree de Marron 

Take 2 lb. of chestnuts, slit the skins with a knife, and drop into 
boiling fat for two minutes. While hot, remove both the outer and inner 
skins ; then place into a stewpan with 3 qt. of boiling veal stock ; cook 
until quite tender. Take the chestnuts out and pound them in a mortar, 
adding a pinch of nutmeg; return to the stock, stirring all the time, and 
boil for half an hour. Be sure that the soup is thick enough. Strain 
through a hair sieve, and add half a pint of cream; make hot, but do not 
boil; season, and serve with croutons of bread. 

Carrot Soup — Puree a la Crecy 

Take a dozen carrots; cut up small, and place in 3 qt. of veal stock. 
Simmer until quite tender; then pass through a hair sieve, and return to 
the stewpan; bring to the boil, season, make sure the soup is of the right 
thickness, and add half a pint of cream. 

Barley Soup— Creme d'Orge 

This is a white chicken soup thickened with pearl barley. If small 
quenelles of chicken are served in it, a la Louise is the correct name. 
Croutons of fried bread should be served with it. 

Spinach Soup — Puree d'Epinards 

Cook 2 lb. of spinach in the usual way with one lettuce and a few 
sorrel leaves. Having prepared 3 qt. of white veal soup, chop the spinach, 
&c., and add to the soup, stirring all the time; simmer for half an hour; 
season, and add a pinch of nutmeg; pass througli a hair sieve, and add 
half a pint of cream. Croutons to be served with it. 

Artichoke Soup — Puree a la Palestine 

Peel and wash 4 lb. of Jerusalem artichokes. Cut them up and put 
them in a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter and a sliced onion; simmer gently 
on a slow fire until beginning to reduce, taking care to keep them perfectly 
white. Then add 3 qt. of veal stock and a teaspoonful of castor sugar 
Simmer gently for an hour, pass through a fine hair sieve, make hot again, 
season, and add half a pint of cream. 

Turnip Soup — Puree .\ la Brktonne 

Proceed exactly in the same way as for artichoke soup, using turnips, 
and adding a pinch of nutmeg. 



80 MENU DISHES 

Green-pea Soup— Purine dk Pois Verts 

Put 2 qt. of green peas, 6 good sprigs of mint, a handful of parsley, and 
3 green onions into 3 qt. of boiling stock. When the peas are quite done, 
strain, and pound all together in a mortar. Return to the stock, stirring 
all the time. When thoroughly mixed, pass through a hair sieve; make 
hot, season, and add half a pint of cream. If the soup does not seem to 
be of a good colour, a little spinach green should be added. 

Potato Soup — Puree de Pommes de Terre 

Take a dozen good potatoes, cut up and place with one onion and a 
little celery, also cut up, and 2 oz. of butter, in a stewpan. Reduce until 
nearly a pulp, taking care, however, not to brown them. Add pepper, 
salt, and a little nutmeg; pour on 2 qt. of boiling white stock, and simmer 
gently for three quarters of an hour; pass through a hair sieve, make hot, 
and add half a pint of cream. This soup is often called Potage Parmentier. 

Dutch Soup — Potage a la Hollandaise 

Cut 3 carrots, 3 turnips, and 1 cucumber into small half-moon shapes. 
Cook them in 3 qt. of good stock (veal). When done, remove and place 
in a soup tureen. Mix well together nine egg yolks with half a pint of 
cream, and stir into the stock, which should be kept hot, but not boiled, 
until of a nice smooth consistency. Season, and pour on to vegetables. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

FISH SOUPS 

Lobster Soup — Bisque de Homakd 

Take two good lobsters, break open and place all the shell in 3 qt. of 
boiling white stock. Meanwhile pound the lobster meat (unless any is 
required to be cut up to put into the soup, which some people prefer) with 
a small teacupful of boiled rice. Strain the stock from the shells, when 
as much nutriment as possible has been abstracted, and add the puree. 
Simmer for half an hour; rub through a hair sieve; return to the stewpan, 
and add pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace, a little anchovy essence, and a 
spoonful of good white sauce. Before sending to table, add half a pint of 
cream. 

Crayfish Soup — Bisque d'Ecrevisses 

Take two dozen live crayfish, and place in a bowl of clean water. Cut 
up 1 carrot, 1 small onion. 1 turnip, a small head of celery, and place in 
a stewpan with \ lb. of butter, adding two bay leaves and a sprig of thyme. 
Fry all these for five minutes; then throw in the crayfish. Continue 
stirring for another five minutes; then add a glass of white wine and 
2 qt. of good white stock. Boil for twenty minutes; then remove the 




COMMERCIAL CHRISTMAS CAKES 




EXHIBITION BIRTHDAY CAKE 



SPECIMENS OF CAKE DECORATION 



SAUCES 81 

crayfish, and strain the stock, pressing the vegetables to get all the flavour 
out of them. Take the shell off' the tails, taking care not to break thera, 
and place the tails in the soup tureen; pound all the remainder in the 
mortar and return to stock, adding half a pint of white sauce and a little 
anchovy essence. Boil for half an hour, and rub through a tammy cloth. 
Make hot, add a little cream, season, and pour on to the tails. 

Oyster Soup — Bisque aux HutxKEs 

Take two dozen oysters, place them in a stewpan, and bring to the boil. 
Take the oysters out (saving the liquor), pull off" the beards and hard part, 
and place the hard part in a stewpan with two whitings cut up, one carrot, 
a little celery, a blade of mace, and a sprig of thyme. Boil all together in 
2 qt. of white stock, adding a glass of white wine. Simmer for an hour; 
then strain and thicken with a little white roux; season, and add half a 
pint of cream and a little lemon juice; pour on to the fleshy parts of the 
oysters, which have been kept back for the purpose. 

Mussel Soup — Bisque a la Dupoise 

Pi'oceed as for oyster soup, keeping back the delicate parts of the fish. 
Mix four egg yolks in with the cream, and pour into the soup. Keep just 
under the boil for five minutes, and pour on to the mussels in the tureen. 

Shrimp Soup— Bisque a la Normande 

Take 3 pt. of good shrimps. Pick and cleanse 1 pt. of them ; place the 
remainder in a stewpan with one carrot, a little celery, a little parsley, a 
sprig of thyme, and 2 oz. of butter. Fry all these over a slow fire for ten 
minutes; add 2 qt. of white stock, and boil for half an hour. Take out the 
shrimps, and pound in a mortar; put back in the broth, and thicken with 
white roux; add a little anchovy essence. Continue simmering for half an 
hour; rub through a tanmiy cloth into a soup pot; bring to the boil; skim, 
season, and add a little cream; then pour on to the picked shrimps. 

Prawn Soup — Bisque de Crevettes 

Prepare 'exactly as for shrimp soup, using three dozen large prawns in 
place of shrimps, and carefully shelling the tail parts to place in the soup 
when finished. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

SAUCES 



White Roux Thickening for Sauces 

Place 1 lb. of butter in a bain-marie and stand on the corner of the 
stove to melt (or clarify). Pour gently into a stewpan, taking care not to 
let any of the dross go in; then stir enough flour in to make a stifiT paste. 

Vol. II. 71 



82 MENU DISHES 

Leave on the side of the stove for two hours, stirring occasionally (but 
taking care not to brown); turn into a basin. Always keep some on hand. 

Brown Koux Thickening for Sauces 

Prepare exactly as above, only leave on a hotter part of the stove to 
acquire a deep golden colour, taking care to do so gently and not to burn. 

Brown Sauce— Sauce Espagnole 

This is the foundation of most brown sauces, and in a business estab- 
lishment should be kept always on hand for preparing the brown sauce. 
Reduce 4 qt. of good stock with any trimmings (veal or rabbit bones will 
do) to half its quantity, and pour on to 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 turnip, a hand- 
ful of parsley, and some sliced ham which have been well braised in a little 
butter over the fire. Add some tomato puree, and boil for half an hour. 
Thicken with brown roux, a little thicker than will be required when 
finished, to allow of other ingredients being used in it. Simmer gently 
and remove all fat from the surface. Pass through a tammy cloth, and 
keep in a cool place for use. If not quite of a rich brown colour, add a 
little glaze, or, if necessary, a little colouring 

White Sauce — Sauce Veloute 

Use seasoned white veal or chicken stock for this sauce. Reduce it, 
and thicken with white roux. When stock is not available, a good plan 
is to add an equal quantity of boiled milk, after the stock has been 
thickened, and pass through a tammy for use. 

Italian Sauce— Sauce Italienne 

Chop a small onion with a handful of fresh, dark mushrooms, and place 
in a stewpan with 1 oz. butter, a little thyme, and a bay leaf. Reduce over 
a fire for ten minutes, remove the bay leaf and thyme, and add 1 pt. 
of brown sauce. Boil for twenty minutes, season, skim, and, if desired, add 
a little dark sherry. 

White Italian Sauce— Sauce Italienne Blanche 

Use white mushrooms, and proceed exactly as for brown Italian sauce, 
using white sauce (veloute) instead of brown (Espagnole). Add a little 
white wine and cream. 

Sharp Sauce — Sauce Piquante 

Chop fine 6 gherkins, 3 shallots, and a few capers. Put to boil in a gill 
of vinegar, with a little thyme and a bay leaf. Reduce to one-half, add 
1 pt. of Espagnole sauce, simmer gently for twenty minutes, season with 
cayenne pepper and salt, and then remove the thyme and bay leaf. 

Tomato Sauce — Sauce aux Tomates 

Take six ripe tomatoes and squash them in a basin. Put about ^ lb. 
gammon, cut small, into a stewpan containing a little butter, an onion cut 



SAUCES 83 

up, a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme. Fry these for a few minutes over 
the fire; then add the tomato, and simmer until all are melted. Then 
pass through a sieve and return to the stewpan. Add half a pint of 
chicken or veal stock; thicken with roux, and season with cayenne 
pepper and salt and a dash of vinegar. Pass through a tammy or very 
fine strainer. 

Genevese Sauce — Sauce G^inevoise 

Make a braising of a little gammon cut up with an onion, a carrot, 
a little celery, some parsley, butter, and mushroom. Braise over the fire 
for a few minutes; then add a gill of claret and boil for five minutes. Add 
a pint of Espagnole sauce; simmer gently for twenty minutes; then skim, 
and pass through a tammy. Stir in a spoonful of chopped parsley, half a 
spoonful of chopped capers, a little lemon juice, some anchovy essence and 
grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. 

Matelote Sauce — Sauce Matelote 

Take the stock that fish has been cooked in, and strain it into some 
Espagnole sauce. Reduce well, skim, and add a little anchovy essence, 
grated nutmeg, and mushroom ketchup. Season well and serve. 

Lobster Sauce — Sauce de Homard 

Break up the shells and head, &c., after removing the flesh of the 
lobster. Put to boil in 1| pt. of milk and reduce for a few minutes. Strain 
and thicken with white roux, and add the spawn passed through a sieve. 
Add a little anchovy essence, also pepper and a little salt if required; then 
pass through a tammy on to pieces of lobster cut into small dice. 

MaItre d'H6tel Sauce 

To a pint of boiling velout^ sauce add a dessertspoonful of chopped and 
blanched parsley, a little lemon juice, a pat of fresh butter, pepper, salt, and 
a very little cream. 

Curry Sauce— Sauce A l'Indienne 

Slice up an onion, a carrot, and a little celery, and place in a stewpan, 
with a little butter, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, two bay leaves, and 
some parsley. Fry for ten minutes over the fire; then add a tablespoonful 
of good Indian curry powder. Continue frying for a few more minutes, 
taking care that it does not burn; then stir in sufficient flour to thicken it, 
and moisten with stock made from whatever it is to be served with. Let 
it simmer gently and remove all fat; then strain and pass through a tammy 
for use. 

Mayonnalse Sauce— Sauce Mayonnaise 

Place the raw yolks of three eggs in a basin with a little pepper, .salt, 
and mustard. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon or whisk, adding salad oil, 
a few drops at a time at first, until it begins to get thick; then it can be 



84 m?:nu dishes 

added in larger quantities. When nice and stiff, add a little vinegar and 
lemon juice. Make sure .that it is seasoned correctly. Just before serving, 
stir in a little cream. 

Green Mayonnaise Sauce — Sauce Mayonnaise Verte 

Use some finished mayonnaise sauce and colour with vegetable green, 
or, if preferred, blanch some tarragon, chervil, and parsley. Squeeze in a 
cloth, pass through a hair sieve, and mix with the mayonnaise. 

Red Mayonnaise Sauce— Sauce Mayonnaise Rouge 

This sauce is made by pounding some lobster coral and passing through 
a sieve, and mixing with some mayonnaise sauce. Of course it is to be 
used only for fish. 

Tartar Sauce— Sauce Tart are 

Make in the same way as mayonnaise sauce, using tarragon vinegar, 
and, when finished, add some chopped tarragon, chervil, and capers, 

Remoulade Sauce (Cold) 

Blanch in a little white wine some tarragon, chervil, parsley, and a 
clove of bruised garlic. Strain, remove the garlic, and pound the re- 
mainder with five hard-boiled egg yolks. Add three tablespoonfuls of salad 
oil, one of tarragon vinegar, and a little tomato ketchup. Season with 
pepper and salt, and add a few finely-chopped capers. 

Remoulade Sauce (Hot) 

Take a handful of fresh mushrooms chopped very fine, and place them 
in a stewpan with 1 oz. butter and a bruised clove of garlic. Fry over the 
fire for ten minutes; then remove the garlic and put the mushrooms in 
a pint of veloute sauce. Bring to the boil, remove the butter from the top, 
and stir in the yolks of two eggs (and set them) and a little vinegar, mus- 
tard, and chopped parsley. 

PROVENgAL Sauce 

Prepare as for cold remoulade sauce, pounding some capers and filleted 
anchovies with the other ingredients, and, when finished, add some very 
finely chopped parsley. 

Sauce for Cold Meat, Brawn, etc. 

Put in a basin 3 parts of salad oil, 2 of vinegar, 1 of castor sugar, some 
French mustard, a little Al sauce, some pepper and salt, and mix well 
together and serve. 

Caper Sauce — Sauce Capre 

Boil I pt. of milk, add to it | pt. of mutton stock, and thicken with 
white roux. Season and add capers, either wliole or chopped, a dash of 
faper vinegar, and a little cream. 



SAUCES 85 

Brown Caper Sauce 

This consists of Espagnole sauce with capers, a little vinegar, and a 
little of the liquor from whatever it is to accompany. 

Black Butter Sauce — Sauce Beurre Noir 

Brown some butter in a stewpan by letting it fry for a little while. 
Skim and strain into a stewpan with a gill of vinegar, some chopped 
capers, mushroom ketchup, Harvey sauce, pepper, and salt. Bring to the 
boil, adding a piece of dark glaze. This sauce invariably accompanies 
skate or grilled mackerel. 

Egg Sauce — Sauce aux (Eufs 
Make some melted butter sauce by putting a little butter in a stewpan. 
When melted, tighten with flour. Pour on some hot milk and stir well 
until boiling. Season with pepper and salt, and strain on to some hard- 
boiled egg cut into dice, and serve. 

Mustard Sauce — Sauce Moutarde 

Make hot 1 pt. of velout^ sauce. Add one tablespoonful of mixed mus- 
tard and 1 oz. of French mustard, also a dash of tarragon vinegar. 

Bread Sauce — Sauce Pain 

Put half a pint of milk to boil with a small onion, leaving a clove stuck 
in it. Add a few bread crumbs, and boil for ten minutes. Remove the 
onion and stir in a little fresh butter. Season and serve. 

Fennel Sauce — Sauce Fenouil 

Blanch some fennels and chop very fine, add to some plain butter sauce, 
season with salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice. This sauce goes well 
with mackerel. 

Shrimp Sauce — Sauce aux Creveti'es 

Take some butter sauce and mix in a little anchovy essence and lemon 
juice. Season with cayenne pepper and stir in some picked shrimps. 

Ravigote Sauce 

Put some Harvey sauce and tarragon vinegar in a pan on the stove to 
reduce to one-half. Mix with some good butter sauce; then blanch and 
chop fine some tarragon, chervil, and parsley, and stir into the sauce. 
Bring to the boil and serve. 

Green Ravigote Sauce — Sauce Ravigote Verte 

Pound some blanched tarragon, chervil, and parsley, and add to some 
butter sauce. Stir in a little Harvey sauce and vinegar, and season. For 
cold ravigote sauce use mayonnaise instead of white sauce. 

Sauce Robert (for Pork) 

Cut a good-sized onion into small dice. Fry in a little butter to a 
golden colour. Take out of the butter and place in half a gill of vinegar. 



86 MENU DISHES 

Let it reduce for ten niioutea, then add half a jjint of Espagnole sauce. 
Let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour, skim, and add a teaspoonful 
of French mustard. Season with pepper and salt. 

Parsley Sauce— Sauce Persil 

This is melted butter sauce, with the addition of blanched and chopped 

parsley. 

Anchovy Sauce— Sauce d'Anchois 

This is melted butter sauce, with anchovy essence stirred in. 

Horseradish Sauce— Sauce Raifort 

Grate some horseradish and stir in some cream which has been slightly 
whipped. Add some vinegar, cayenne pepper, and salt. 

Mousseline Sauce (Hot) 

Take some Dutch sauce, and just before serving stir in some whipped 
white of egg. This sauce is suitable for hot asparagus. 




Fig. 122.— Aspic and Mayonnaise Sauce 

Mousseline Sauce (Cold) 

Take some mayonnaise sauce to which has been added some cream, and 
stir in a little whipped aspic jelly, which is made with liquid aspic quite 
cold and beaten by rolling the handle of a whisk between the two hands. 

Gherkin Sauce — Sauce aux Cornichons 

This consists of Espagnole sauce with vinegar and shredded gherkins 
stirred in. Season with cayenne pepper and salt. 



SAUCES 87 

Dutch Sauce — Sauce Hollandaise 

Put four egg yolks into a stewpan with a little grated nutmeg. Stir 
quickly with a whisk and add 1 pt. of white sauce. Make hot to set the 
egg, and season with pepper, salt, a little tarragon vinegar, and a little 
cream. 

Mussel Sauce — Sauce aux Moules 

Stir some thoroughly clean and picked mussels into some German 
sauce, add a little anchovy essence, season, and serve. 

German Sauce— Sauce Allemande 

Take 1 qt. of boiling velout^ sauce; add a little mushroom ketchup; stir 
in six egg yolks, a little grated nutmeg, lemon juice, and cream. Keep 
just under the boil to cook the eggs; then season, and pass through a 
tammy for use. 

Sauce Bearnaise 

This sauce is made by placing four egg yolks into a small saut6 pan, 

with a little salt and pepper and 1 oz. fresh butter. Stir quickly over 

the fire until it begins to thicken; then add 3 oz. more of butter, 1 oz. at 

a time; also a little tarragon vinegar, and chopped and blanched tarragon 

and parsley. 

Sauce Supreme 

Reduce some good white chicken stock to which some white mush- 
rooms have been added, and add to some veloutd sauce. Reduce gently 
until the sauce coats the spoon, and add a little cream. 

Mint Sauce— Sauce Menthe 

Wash and chop some mint leaves, with sufficient brown sugar to 
sweeten it, and stir into the vinegar. See that all sugar is dissolved 

before serving. 

White Chaudfroid Sauce 

Take some veloute sauce and add to it the reduced liquor of whatever 
it is intended to cover. Reduce the whole well and add a little gelatine, 
sufficient only to set it with a little aspic jelly; also a little cream. 

Brown Chaudfroid Sauce 

Proceed as for the preceding, using Espagnole sauce, and of course 
omitting the cream. 

D'Uxelles Sauce— Sauce d'Uxelles 

Chop finely a little lean, cooked ham with some white mushrooms and 
parsley. Fry in a little butter without colouring for a few minutes; then 
add to some German sauce, or if brown is required use Espagnole sauce. 

Cumberland Sauce 

Mince finely two peeled shallots; place in a stewpan with the strained 
juice of a lemon and the shredded rind of a lemon and an orange. Add 



88 MENU DISHES 

I gill of water and cook for ten minutes; strain and return to the stewpan; 
add a dessertspoonful of mixed mustard, | gill of marsala, ^ gill of port, a 
pinch of ground ginger, two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, the juice of 
a lemon and an orange, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Season with pepper, 
salt, and cayenne. Boil, and add a very little arrowroot mixed in cold 
water. Boil for three minutes; strain, and serve cold. 

Madeira Sauce— Sauce Madeira 

This sauce is made by reducing Madeira wine with a little glaze to half 

its quantity, and mixing with Espagnole sauce and seasoning with pepper 

and salt. 

FiNANCiERE Sauce 

Add to some Espagnole sauce some trutfle liquor, mushroom ketchup, 
and a little claret. Reduce until the sauce coats the spoon. Pass through 
a tammy for use. This sauce may also be served with hot tongue. If 
required for game, then the reduced liquor from the same should be added; 
likewise for lish. 

Devil Sauce — Sauce a la Diable 

Slice two shallots and place in a stewpan with 1 oz. butter, some 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and a clove of garlic. Fry for ten 
minutes, then add a little pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and 1^ pt. 
Espagnole sauce. Simmer for twenty minutes, skim the butter off, pass 
through a tammy, and stir in a teaspoonful of French mustard. 

Norwegian Sauce (for Salmon, etc.) 

Take a pint of cream, and whip until it begins to thicken; then add two 

tablespoonfuls of finely grated horse radish previously soaked in white 

malt vinegar. Add a little green colouring made from blanched tarragon 

and parsley pounded in the mortar. Season with cayenne pepper and salt 

and a little whipped aspic jelly. Whisk until thick; then bury in ice until 

required. 

Bordeaux Sauce — Sauce Bordelaise 

Reduce with a little finely chopped shallot some white wine, Sauterne 
preferred. Add to it some Espagnole sauce, and before serving season and 
stir in some blanched and chopped parsley. 

Sauce for Venison 

Reduce a gill of port wine to half its quantity, and add a small jar of 
red-currant jelly. Add 1 pt. of Espagnole sauce; strain and serve. 

Sauce for Roast Veal 

Take a pint of meat stock in which a sprig of thyme has been boiled for 
ten minutes; strain, and add a gill of Espagnole sauce, some chopped parsley, 
and a little lemon juice. Season with cayenne pepper and salt. 



SAUCES 89 

White Onion Puree — Puree A la Soubise 

Cut up some onions and cook in white stock until done. Add some 
velout^ sauce, and pass through a hair sieve or t^mmy cloth. Season, and 
add a little cream. This may be served as a pur^e, which it really is, using 
more onion and proceeding as above. 

Brown Onion Sauce — Pur:^e 1 la Bretonne 

Peel some onions and place in boiling water. Continue boiling for ten 
minutes; then drain, cut up, and place in a stewpan with a little butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little sugar. Fry to a nice brown colour, and add some 
Espagnole sauce. Reduce and pass through a hair sieve or tammy. 

Fine Herb Sauce — Sauce aux Fines Herbes 

Prepare exactly in the same way as above, either white or brown. 
Before serving add a dash of nutmeg, a little lemon juice, and some chopped 
parsley. 

BECHAMEL Sauce 

This is veloute sauce reduced, and with the addition of a little boiling 
cream. 

Mayonnaise Dressing for Salad 

Take half a pint of mayonnaise sauce. Add a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, half as much castor sugar, and half a gill of cream. Stir well 
together and pour over the salad. 

MaItre d'H6tel Butter 

Take ^ lb. fresh butter; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the 
juice of half a small lemon. Mix well with a palette knife on a plate, and 
place on ice until required. If desired, the plate may be rubbed first with 
a clove of garlic, which will be found an excellent addition with steak, 
chops, &c. 

Fish Glaze 

Place into a saucepan any trimmings of raw fish with a cod's head, two 
turbot heads, two whiting, and the bones of twelve sole. Cover with cold 
water, bring to the boil and skim well. Then add a leek, an onion, a carrot, 
a sprig of thyme, two bay leaves, a little parsley, and a wineglassful of 
white wine. Reduce gently to one-half; then strain into a basin. When 
cold and set, remove any sediment and place in a stewpan. Reduce over a 
brisk fire, stirring all the time, until it adheres to the spoon; pour into a 
basin and keep for use. Fish glaze is generally made after using a quan- 
tity of fish, so that all the bones and trimmings can be used for it. 

Mushroom Sauce — Sauce aux Champignons 

Put sliced mushrooms in white sauce or brown, as the case may be, and 
reduce. 

Vf)L II. 72 



90 



MENU DISHES 
Port-wine Sauce 



Take a small jar of red-currant jelly, a gill of port wine, the rind of a 
lemon, and two cloves. Boil for a few minutes, strain into a gill of demi- 
glaze, and reduce for a few minutes longer. 

Plain White Sauce or Butter Sauce (for Cauliflower, 
Seakale, etc.) 

Use half milk and half water. Thicken with white roux, add a pat of 
fresh butter, and strain. 

White Onion Sauce — Sauce a la Soubise 

Cut up three onions and place in a stewpan; cover with cold water, and 
bring to the boil. Simmer for ten minutes; then drain and press the water 




Fig. 123.— Taiumyiiig 

out; put back in the stewpan with a pat of fresh butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of white sauce. Season with pepper, salt, and a dash of nutmeg, 
and add a small pinch of castor sugar. Cover with a tight-fitting lid, and 
sweat gently until the onions are quite done. Then add half a pint of 
white sauce and a gill of cream: simmer gently for five minutes, and pass 
through a tammy cloth. 

Oyster Sauce — Sauce aux HuItres 

Put twelve oysters into a stewpan with the liquor that comes from 
them. Bring to the boil, strain the liquor ofi", and put into the stewpan 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 91 

half a pint of milk. Thicken with white roux. When boiling, add the 
liquor from the oysters, boil for ten minutes, pass through a tammy cloth 
(fig. 123) on to the oysters, which have been bearded and had the hard part 
removed. Season with salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice, and stir in a 
little cream. 

Cherry Sauce for Ham, Venison, etc. — Sauce aux Cerises 

Place in a stewpan the contents of a jar of red-currant jelly, half a 
pint of water, a gill of claret, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, a stick of 
cinnamon, and six cloves. Boil for five minutes; slightly thicken with a 
little arrowroot; strain on to ^ lb. glace cherries, and simmer for ten 
minutes. 

Neapolitan Sauce— Sauce Napolitaine 

To a pint of Espagnole sauce add a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, 
the same amount of claret, and a little grated horseradish. Reduce and 
add a little lemon juice. Strain ready for use. 



CHAPTER XXV 

COOKING AND SERVING FISH 
Lobster Coral 



Lobster coral is found in the back of the hen lobster. Break away the 
head from the back of a boiled hen lobster; then remove the red coral; 
rub it through a wire sieve and dry it. If stored in an air-tight jar, it will 
keep some time without losing its colour. It makes a very pretty decora- 
tion for hot or cold fish. 

Fish Cream or Fish Farce 

Pound in a mortar the flesh of two whiting, with 2 oz. of bread, free 
from crust, previously dipped in milk, squeezed dry, and rubbed on the 
table until quite smooth. When pounded to a paste, add the whites of two 
raw eggs; pass through a fine wire sieve into a basin, adding salt and 
pepper to taste and a gill of cream. Beat well together. The best way is 
to try a small quantity by steaming it; then if it requires softening add 
more cream. 

Fried Fillets of Sole— Filets de Soles Frits 

These should be egged and breadcrumbed and fried to a nice golden 
colour. It is usual to serve fried parsley with them, and any sauce that 
may be preferred handed separately. Plaice may be prepared in the same 
way (fig. 124). 



92 



MENU DISHES 




Fig. 124. — Plaice, partly filleted, with fillets alongside 



Soles in White Wine — Filets de Sole au Vin Blanc 

The fillets are folded over and just slit with a sharp knife to prevent 
them from moving while being cooked. When prepared in this way, place 
in a saute pan previously buttered, along with some white wine, a carrot, 
a small turnip and onion, a sprig of thyme, pepper and salt, and the bones 
of the soles. Cover with a piece of buttered kitchen paper, and place in 
the oven for about a quarter of an hour; lift the fillets carefully out on to 
a dish to keep warm; strain all the liquor into a stewpan, and thicken with 
white roux; add a little cream; make sure the seasoning is correct, and 
serve. 

Surprise Fillets of Sole — Filets de Sole en Surprise 

Cut the fillets crossways into thin strips, dry them on a cloth, then 
shake them into some flour, and proceed exactly in the same way as for 
whitebait, which the dish is intended to resemble. 

Fillets of Sole in Batter — Filb:ts de Sole a l'Orly 

Take the fillets of two soles; trim, and lay in a dish with a sliced 
carrot, onion, turnip, sprig of thyme, and the juice of a lemon. Let them 
remain for one hour; turn them over once, and then take out. Drain them 
on a cloth, dip in some good batter, and fry of a golden colour. Dish on 
a napkin with a garnish of fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. 

Filets de Sole a la Normande 

Prepare the fillets as for vin blaoc. Place in a saute pan with some 
good fish stock made from the bones, to which has been added some good 
brown sauce. Cook in the oven until done; then take out, and place the 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 93 

.iquor on the fire to reduce; blanch some oysters off, and when the sauce 
IS finished throw them in for a few minutes. Dish the soles on a potato 
border; place the oysters and some picked shrimps in the centre; pour 
sauce all over, and sprinkle a little lobster coral on each fillet, and serve. 

Filets de Sole 1 la Richelieu 

Prepare the fillets by folding one end over the other, making a small 
cut with a knife in the folds to prevent them from moving. Fill the 
cavity up with fish farce, and dip into chopped truffle. Place in a^-saut^ 
pan, moisten with wine, and cook in the oven. Dish on a border of potato, 
with a garnish of small quenelles of fish and pieces of cooked tomato in the 
centre, and pour tomato sauce round. Sprinkle the soles with hard-boiled 
yolk of egg pressed through a sieve. 

Filets de Sole en Belle-vue 

Take the fillets of two soles; lay overlapping one another on the table, 
and cut the ends all the same length; then dust with flour, and spread with 
some fish farce, in which has been mixed some chopped truffle. Roll up 
neatly and place in a cloth, which should be rolled and tied tightly, and 
boil with the bones for a quarter of an hour. Take out the roll and tie 
tight again; allow to lie till it gets quite cold; then cut into pieces | in. 
thick, and set into little shallow moulds of very clear aspic jelly. 

Mayonnaise of Fillets of Soles — Filets de Soles en Mayonnnaise 

Cook the small fillets of two soles. When cold, coat them with mayon- 
naise sauce, to which has been added a little aspic jelly and, if in hot 
weather, a small quantity of melted gelatine. Sprinkle over some chopped 
parsley and lobster coral, and dish on a good salad mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing. These may, by folding them as for Richelieu, and then covering 
with mayonnaise, be placed in paper cases, one to each person, so as to 

make a very pretty dish. 

Soles au Gratin 

Place a sole on a buttered dish and moisten with a little wine, season 
with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven; then pour over them a layer 
of brown Italian sauce; sprinkle some bread crumbs over, and put back in 
the oven. Just before going to the table, get it a nice brown colour by 
holding the red-hot salamander over it. 

Sole a la Colbert 

Slit the sole straight down the back with a knife; then flour and egg, 
breadcrumb, fry. When done, remove the backbone, and fill with maitre 
d'hotel butter. Pour round it some fish glaze, and serve. 

Boiled Salmon — Saumon BouiLLii 

Boiled salmon is served with a good many sauces. Some of the best 
are Norwegian, Genevoise, Tartare, Piquante, Mayonnaise, Ravigote. 



94 



MENU DISHES 



Cucumber is cut up, seasoned, oil and vinegar poured over it, and handed 
separately. 

Fillets of Salmon — Filets ue Saumon 

Take about 2 lb. of a medium-sized fish and cut down the back, remov- 
ine^ tlie backbone; then cut each piece lengthways again and divide them 
into oval-shaped pieces. Place them on a buttered saut(; pan; season with 
pepper and salt, add a little vinegar and water, and cook in the oven until 
done. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, and pour sauce over. A nice 
garnish of cucumber cut into small olive shapes and cooked in boiling 
water with a little vinegar in it, and when done placed in the centre, is 
a good addition. 

Mayonnaise of Salmon — Mayonnaise de Saumon 

Either cut into slices across the fish, or into small fillets as above. 
When cold, mask them over with mayonnaise sauce, to which has been 
added a little aspic jelly and a small quantity of gelatine; decorate with 
lobster coral, chopped parsley, the rind of cucumber, beetroot, &c. Dish on 
salad, and place slices of cucumber round. 

Grilled Slice of Salmon — Tranche de Saumon Grillee 

Take a slice of firm fish about 1 in. thick, pour a little salad oil over it, 
and grill. 

Fried Slices of Salmon — Tranches de Saumon Frites 

Either hot or cold, this will be found a favourite dish with Jews. Take 
a slice as above, dry it in a cloth, and dip in flour; have some yolk of egg 




Fig. 125.— Saute Pan (with cover), and Frying Basket 



beaten in a pie-dish, and put salmon in. Cover all over, lift out, and again 
flour all over; place in a frying basket, and fry in boiling oil until done. 
Garnish with fried parsley if hot, or, if cold, with sliced cucumber. 

Red Mullet — Rougets 

Take some good red mullet and slightly cut, slanting, four times down 
each side of the fish. Place on a dish with some oil and vinegar, a carrot, 
an onion, a turnip, and some parsley, and soak for two hours; remove the 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 95 

vegetables, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven, basting them 
during the process. When done, dish head to tail, pouring sauce over them. 




Fig. 126.— Red Mullet 

and serve. Genevoise or brown Italian sauce should be used for them, with 
the liquor from the fish added. 

Grey Broiled Mullet — Mulets 

Take a fish about 1| lb.; clean and scale. Make four or five cuts on 
each side, and place in a little oil. Drain and broil for twenty-five minutes 
on a steady fire. 

Rougets aux Fines Herbes 

These are «ooked with wine, anchovy, and Harvey sauce, and served 
with a fine-herbs sauce. 

Rougets a la MaItre d'H6tel 

These are filleted and cooked and dished on a border of potatoes with 
maitre d'hotel sauce. Rougets a la sauce verte are served with green sauce. 
Rougets a la Ravigote are served with ravigote sauce. 

Boiled Turbot — Turbot Bouilli!: 

Take a good plump fish; wash and rub well over the white side with 
the juice of a lemon; make a small cut down the black skin, which will 
help to keep the white side from splitting; place on a drainer in a turbot- 
kettle of cold water, and cook gently until done. Shrimp, Lobster, and a 
good many other sauces may be served with it. In carving, cut down the 
fish, then in slices towards the sides. 

FiLLKT-s OF Turbot — Filets de Turbot 

Take the meat carefully from the bones by cutting straight down the 
fish; then pass the knife along the bone under the fillets towards the sides. 



96 



MENU DISHES 



Cut into pieces a little larger than are required when cooked (to allow for 
shrinking) and place on a buttered saute pan. Season with pepper and 
salt, pour some good fish stock over, and cook in the oven. Dish on a 
border; make a garnish of shrimp, lobster, cucumber, or anything that is 
preferred; pour sauce over, and sprinkle with lobster coral. These fillets 
when cold may be masked over with mayonnaise, tartare, or ravigote 
sauce, according to taste, and dished on salad. 



Broiled Turbot 



Take a small fish, dry 
well on a cloth, place on 
a dish, season with pepper 
and salt, and pour over it 
six tablespoonfuls of oil 
and two of vinegar and a 
little lemon juice. Soak 
for one hour; then place 
in a double gridiron so as 
not to disturb it in the 
turning, and broil over a 
slow fire until done, which 
will take about twenty- 
five minutes. The sauce 
is handed separately. 




Fig. 127. — Oven Pan for Joints, with Stand 



TURBOT AU GrATIN 



Take any cold fish that may be left, and place a layer in a buttered 
silver dish; then pour over it a layer of well-seasoned bechamel sauce (if 
desired, a little grated Parmesan cheese may be added). Sprinkle over 
with bread crumbs and a piece of butter made hot in the oven, and bring 
to a nice brown colour by passing the red-hot salamander over them. 



TURBOT AU GrATIN A L'ItALIENNE 

Proceed as above, using Italian sauce instead of bechamel, and some 
spaghetti macaroni cut into pieces 1 in. long and mixed with it. 

TURBOT A LA RUSSE AND TURBOT A LA MORNY 

Turbot d la Russe is served with horse-radish sauce, and turbot a la 
Morny with a cheese sauce. 

TURBOT A LA CrEME GrATIN 

This consists of alternate layers of turbot and a white butter sauce with 
cream added, and chopped parsley sprinkled with grated Parmesan cheese 
and bread crumbs, and browned in the oven or in front of the fire. 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 97 

Fillets of Turbot a l'Imperatrice 

These are small fillets coated with a white fish farce, and mixed with 
lobster spawn passed through a fine sieve, and piped with a star tube on 
to the white farce. Cook in the oven in a saut^ pan with a little fish stock. 
Dish, and pour over it a good white sauce made from the bones, with some 
dried lobster coral mixed with it. 

Fish Cakes — Fish Rissoles 

Any fish left over from dinner may be turned into a nice breakfast dish 
by proceeding as follows. Chop up and mix with some mashed potatoes, 
to which has been added the yolk of an egg; season with pepper and salt, 
and form into small flat shapes; egg and breadcrumb, and cook in a frying- 
pan with a little lard. Dish on a fish napkin. 

Smelts a l'Anglaise — Eperlans a l'Anglaise 

Smelts a l'Anglaise are floured, egged, and breadcrumbed, except the 
head and tails, which should be left clear and fried. They are served on 
a napkin with fried parsley and a boat of anchovy sauce. 

Smelts Curled and Fried — Buisson d'Eferlans Frits 

Have the tails of the smelts fixed in their mouths, breadcrumbed and 
fried. It is usual to hand round melted butter with them. 

Smelts for Invalids 

Take two smelts and place on a buttered soup plate. Sprinkle very 
little salt on them, and cover tight with another plate. Place over a stew- 
pan half-filled with boiling water, and continue boiling for twenty minutes. 
The fish when cooked this way will be found to retain all their flavour. 
Any other fish may be treated the same way, such as fillets of sole, plaice, 
whiting, &c. 

Whiting — Merlans A l'Anglaise 

Whiting are floured, egged and crumbed, and fried with their tails 
in their mouths. Any sauce that is preferred should be handed separately. 

Fillets of Whiting— Filets de Merlans A l'Orly 

Remove the fillets from the bones and take off" the skin by laying the 

fillet flat on the table, akin side underneath, and sliding the knife along it. 

Then place in a pie dish, with three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, 

two bay leaves, one sliced shallot, a sprig of thyme, and a little parsley, 

pepper, and salt. Soak for about an hour; drain, flour, and fry in hot fat. 

Dish on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce. 
Vol. II. 78 



98 MENU DISHES 

Fillets of Whiting, K^gence — Filets de Merlans a la Regence 

Take eiglit nice fillets, trim them, and cook on a buttered saute pan 
with a little fish stock, and cover with buttered paper. Put in the oven 
until done ; then dish the fillets crossways on mashed potato down the 
middle of a flat, oval, silver dish. Cover with a good white sauce to which 
the essence of the fish has been added, and decorate alternately with dried 
lobster coral and chopped truffle. Place a pyramid of tiny quenelles of 
whiting, which, after being cooked, have been breadcrumbed and fried to 
a golden colour, in the centre of the sauce at each side, and serve. 

Fillets of Whiting a l'Americaine — Filets de Merlans 
A l'Americaine 

Prepare in the same way as above, using tomato sauce and garnishing 
with gherkins and fillets of anchovies. Cut into thin strips. 

Filets de Merlans a l'Ambassadrice 

Fry some very small fillets of a golden colour. Dish on a border of 
potato. Place in the centre a good pyramid of very small quenelles, half 
of them white and half coloured red with lobster spawn, and pour a rich 
white sauce round them. 

Cream of Whiting — Creme de Merlans 

Take two good whiting, fillet them, scrape all the flesh from the skin, 
and pound in a mortar. Next take a handful of stale bread crumb and 
moisten with milk; squeeze tight in a cloth and rub on a marble slab until 
of a velvety appearance. Add to the fish and pound quite smooth; then 
mix in two or three egg whites according to size, and pass through a fine 
wire sieve into a basin. Add pepper, salt, a small pinch of mace, and a gill 
of cream. Try it by putting a little in a buttered dariole mould, and 
steaming it; if too firm, add a little more cream; then, having made sure 
it is seasoned correctly, butter a plain " well mould ", decorate with slices of 
truffle, and place in first a layer of farce which has been mixed with 
lobster spawn, and fill up to within an inch of the top with the white 
farce. Place in a stewpan with a tight-fitting lid and steam gently for 
thirty-five minutes, taking care not to boil quickly, and so cause it to blow. 
Turn out on entree dish and pour over it a rich, white, well-seasoned sauce, 
made from the bones, &c. Any garnish that is desired should be placed 
in the centre. 

Cream of Whiting in Aspic Jelly — Creme de Merlans en Aspic 

Cook off in the usual way the fillets of two whiting. When cold, pound 
in the mortar; pass through a fine sieve, season, and add a gill of cream 
and a little aspic jelly. Place in the centre of a dariole mould previously 
decorated and lined with aspic jelly. When set, place on a silver dish, and 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 



99 



garnish with the white parts of endive (fior. 128). This aspic, and in fact 
all that is used for fish, must be made with fish stock, to be made up 
exactly the same as for savoury aspic 




Fig. 128.— Cream of Whiting in Aspic 

Whiting Pollock— Colin 
This should be prepared in the same way as red mullet. 

Trout — Truites 

Trout are cooked in the same way as salmon, and served with the same 
kind of sauces, cucumber, &c. 

Fillets of Trout — Filets dk Truites a l'Italienne 

Cut the fillets as for salmon. Cook and dish on a border either of 
potato or fish farce. Pour over them some Italian sauce, and place in the 
centre some tiny quenelles of whiting and prawn. 

Slices of Trout — Tr.vnches de Truites 

Take two medium-sized trout and cut into pieces across the fish ^ in. 
thick. Cook the same as for fillets. When done, put away to get cold; 
then remove the bones, taking care not to break the fish, and fill up the 
cavity with either Mayonnaise, Tartar, Norwegian, or any other sauce, 
bearing in mind that the dish must be named from the .sauce used. Brush 
over with aspic almost on the point of setting, and sprinkle with dried 
lobster coral and chopped parsley. When the aspic is set, dish on a founda- 
tion of finely-cut salad, and garnish with slices of cucumber. 

Medallions of Trout in Cases— Mkdaillons de Truites en Caisse.s 

Cut the fillets, after being cooked, with a round cutter the size of half- 
a-crown. • Treat then> as above. Cut some salad up fine, mix with 



100 



MENU DISHES 



mayonnaise sauce, fill some small round paper cases with it, and place the 
medallions of fish on top. 

Boiled Haddock — Merluche Bouillie 

Take a large haddock and form it into an S shape by fastening a string 
to the tail, passing it with a trussing needle through the middle, and tying 
it to the jaw. Simmer gently until done. Dish, and serve with a good boat 
of egg, or any other kind of fish sauce. 

Fillets of Haddock with Tartar Sauce — Filets de Merluche 

A LA Tartare 

Trim, breadcrumb, and fry fillets of a nice golden colour. Dish on a 
napkin, and serve with a tureen of Tartar sauce. 



Fillets or Haddock with Curry Sauce- 

A l'Indienne 



-Filets de Merluche 



Prepare the fillets as for whiting a la Regence. Dish, and pour over 
them some curry sauce. Garnish with boiled rice. 

Halibut — Fletan 

Halibut are prepared in the same way as turbot, but as they are a very 
coarse fish, extra time must be allowed for cooking, and they must be 
served with a highly-seasoned sauce. 

Whitebait — Blanchailles 

Whitebait should be obtained as fresh as possible, washed, and dried on 
a cloth, thrown into some flour a handful at a time, and sifted on a wicker 
sieve, then placed in a frying basket, and dropped into some boiling lard 
or oil. Shake them about while cooking, and when quite crisp take out 
and throw on to a dish with some kitchen paper on it to absorb the fat. 
Sprinkle a little salt over them; dish on a napkin, and serve with thin slices 
of brown bread and butter and a lemon cut into eight. 

Devilled Whitebait — Blanchailles a la Diable 

These are prepared as above and sprinkled over with a mixture of 
cayenne pepper and salt. 

Sturgeon — Esturgeon 

Take about 1| lb. of fish. Remove the skin, tie round tight with a 
piece of cloth, and place in a stewpan with one carrot, one onion, three 
cloves, two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, a few pepper- 
corns, whole spice, a glass of w^hite wine, and sufficient water just to cover 
it. Cook gently for about three-quarters of an hour; lift out, and pour 
over it either piquante, lobster, or Dutch sauce, or any other that may 
be thought suitable. Garnish with prawns or crayfish. 




MOULDED MARZIPAN hRlJI IS 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 101 

Grilled Sturgeon — Esturgeon Grille 

Cut a good slice of tish and lay it in some salad oil, to which have been 
added salt, pepper, bay leaves, and bruised cloves. Leave for half an hour; 
then place in a double gridiron, and broil over a slow fire. Serve with 
a well-seasoned sauce. 

Stuffed Pike — Brocket Farci 

Take a pike weighing about 6 lb.; clean, and remove the scales; fill the 
inside with highly seasoned veal stufiing. Stitch it up with a trussing 
needle and string, and form into an S shape in the same way as for 
haddock. Place in a buttered tin with some chopped onion, carrot, a sprig 
of parsley, some mushroom trimmings, and a little sherry; cover with 
buttered paper and cook in the oven, basting it frequently with the liquor. 
When done, lift out, removing any of the flavouring that may adhere to 
it. Mix with the liquor some good brown sauce, making sure it is of the 
right consistency. Then pour over the fish. 

Tunny Fish — Thon 

This fish, which is caught in the Mediterranean and is sold in Britain 
preserved in oil, can be either cut into thin slices and dished on salad cut 
fine, with capers mixed with it, or cut in pieces and fried. In both cases 
serve remoulade sauce with it. 

Weevers — Vives 
These tish can be served au gratin, a I'ltalienne, k la maitre d'hotel, &e. 

Carp — Carpe 

The best carp for cooking purposes should weigh about 5 lb., and, since 
they are muddy fish, extra care must be taken in cleaning them. It is best 
to remove the gills and the gall, which will be found at the back of the 
liead; then lay in salt water for an hour. Next rinse them in clear water 
and wipe dry. Lay on a dish with a little oil, pepper, and salt, and broil 
over a slow fire. Serve with maitre d'hotel sauce, to which a little Harvey 
sauce has been added. 

Forced Carp — Carpe Farcie A lTtalienne 

Stuff the carp with some quenelle forcemeat of whiting. Season and 
roll in well-buttered paper, and bake gently in the oven. Dish, and serve 
with a boat of brown Italian sauce. 

Fried Carp— Carpe Frite 

Split a small carp down the back, removing the backbone, &c. Lay on 
a dish and pour a little oil and vinegar over, adding a bay leaf, shallot, a 
little thyme, pepper, and salt. Allow it to remain two hours; then drain, 
flour, egg and breadcrumb, and fry to a nice golden colour. Dish, garnish 



102 



MENU DISHES 



with fried parsley, and serve with either Genevoise or Italian sauce, or, 
indeed, any fish sauce well seasoned. 

Stewed Carp— Carpe 1 la Roma 

Fillet the carp and stew in fish stock and red wine. Dish, and cover 

with Italian sauce, and garnish with shredded gherkin, capers, and lobster 

coral. 

Fried Dabs — Limandes Frites 

These are trimmed, floured, and fried in lard or oil, dished on a napkin, 
with the sauce served separately. 

Cod with Dutch Sauce — Cabillaud a la Hollandaise 
This is cod boiled and served with a boat of Dutch sauce. 



Slices of Cod Fried — Tranches de Cabillaud Frites 

This consists of slices of cod, egged, breadcrumbed, and fried, 
of anchovy, lobster, or other sauce is served separately. 



A boat 



Slices of Cod with Espagnole Sauce — Tranches de Cabillaud 

A l'Espagnole 

Take some very small slices of cod (tail end); flour them, and fry in a 
little clarified butter to a nice brown colour. Remove the skin and place 
in some boiling stock containing a little claret, just enough to cover them. 
Add pepper, salt, a shallot, two cloves, and a little lemon juice. Simmer 
gently until done. Lift out, strain, reduce the liquor, and add to it some 
Espagnole sauce. Dish, and pour sauce over. 

Grilled Cod — Cabillaud Grille 

For this, slices of cod are soaked in oil, with pepper, salt, bay leaves, 
mace, shallot, and parsley, and placed on a double gridiron to save disturb- 
ing the fish when turning. Grill over a slow fire. Anchovy essence should 
be served with it. 

Grilled Cod a la Colbert — Cabillaud Grille a la Colbert 

Proceed as above. When going to table lay some maitre d'hotel butter 
over it, and serve with a boat of maitre d'hotel sauce. 

'. Eels— Anguilles 

For stewed eels proceed as follows. Take three live eels and kill by 
passing a sharp skewer or pointed knife through the back of the head, 
piercing the spine. Loosen the skin about the gills with a small knife 
until able to procure a firm hold. Take the head in a cloth with one hand, 
and with the other di-aw the skin carefully down; then cut ofi' the head, 
cleanse the fish, and lay by for an hour or two before using. Cut into 
pieces 3 in. long and lay in a buttered pie-dish with some stock. Season 
with pepper, salt, a blade of mace, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and 



COOKING AND SERVING FISH 103 

parsley. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven. When 
cooked, which will take about one hour and a quarter, lift the pieces out, 
dish, and strain the gravy over; then sprinkle with chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

Spitchcocked Eels 

Skin and cleanse as above; then remove the backbone and cut into 
pieces 3 in. long. Brush each piece over with clarified butter to which 
a little lemon juice has been added, and sprinkle over it some very 
finely chopped parsley and shallot, pepper and s.i'*;. Flour, egg, and 
breadcrumb, and fry in boiling fat to a nice golden colour. Dish neatly 
on a potato border. Pour round it any of the following sauces: Italian, 
piquant, tomato, Genevoise, or cardinal. If preferred, either Tartar, mayon- 
naise, or ravigote sauce may be handed separately, but in this case the eels 
would be dished on a napkin. 

Eels a la Geohgina — Anguilles a la Georgina 

These consist of pieces of eel about 3 in. long, with backbone removed, 
and larded with strips of Georgina anchovies and braised in fish stock. 
When cooked, glaze and dish round on a border of potato, with a garnish 
of small potato balls in the centre and tomato sauce poured round Cut 
the potato balls with a scoop, parboil, then finish in the oven with a little 
clarified butter. 

Eels may also, by being first boned and stewed, be set into moulds of 
fish aspic, or covered over with mayonnaise sauce and dished on salad. 

Flounders — Carrelets 

For SouchS de Carrelets, trim, cleanse, and place the flounder on a 
buttered saute pan. Add some white wine and fish stock; also some very 
finely shredded carrot and turnip. Season with pepper and salt and cook 
gently until done. Lift the fish carefully out on to a silver dish; place the 
vegetables on top; sprinkle some chopped parsley over; then reduce the 
liquor and pour round. 

Fried Flounders — Carrelets Frits 

These are trimmed, floured, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried; or, if 
preferred, simply floured and fried. Serve with a boat of anchovy sauce. 

Flounders k l'Orly — Carrelets A l'Orly 

These are flounders soaked in oil and lemon juice, with a bay leaf, a 
clove, and a blade of mace, and dipped in batter and fried. Serve with 
a boat of tomato sauce. 

Hake— Mkrlus 

This fish, which is very common in the West of England, may be cut 
into slices, crumbed, and fried, or, as a good many West Country people like, 
sliced, floured, and fried with bacon. 



104 * MENU DISHES 

Baked Hake 

Slice some nice firm hake about f in. thick. Place in a dish which has 
been thickly buttered and sprinkled with bread crumbs, with which have 
been mixed some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and a very little finely 
chopped onion. Pour a little fish stock in the dish with them, cover with 
the crumbs, &c., place some butter on top, and bake in a moderate oven. 
If preferred, grated Parmesan cheese may be mixed with the crumbs. 

Gudgeon — Goujons 
Gudgeon are generally breadcrumbed and fried as for smelts. 

Gurnard en Matelote — Grondin en Matelote 

Remove the fillets. Cut into nice shapes. Flour, eg,g, and breadcrumb, 
and fry to a nice golden colour. Dish on a border of potato, in the shape 
of a crown, and pour some matelote sauce round, using a good fish garnish 
for the centre. 

Fillets or Gurnard a l'Italienne — Filets de Grondins 
A l'Italienne 

These are filleted and placed on a saute pan and cooked in the oven, 
with some good white wine and the bones with them. Then dish, and 
pour a white Italian sauce over. Several other sauces may be sub- 
stituted, such as maitre d'hotel, Genevoise, &c., of course changing the name 
of the dish accordingly. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

SHELL FISH 
Crab — Crabe 



For dressed crab, take two good male crabs, which may be known by 
having much larger claws than the female. Remove all meat, throwing 
away the gills and apron. Mix with about a tablespoonful of oil, some 
vinegar, a little pepper, salt, and mustard, or, if preferred, with mayon- 
naise sauce. Put the mixture in one of the shells and garnish with 
chopped parsley and lobster coral. 

Crayfish — Ecrevisses 

Crayfish may be shelled and put in aspic jelly, using the heads for 
garnish, after being cleaned and brushed over with aspic; or they may be 
put into a sauce made from the shells, heads, &c., and used for filling patties, 
vol-au-vent, &c. 



SHELL FISH ' 105 

Scallops in Shells — Petoncles en Coquilles au Gratin 

Take a dozen live scallops and open as for oysters, taking care not to 
break the deep shell, which must be scoured well and put to dry. Remove 
the beard and wash them well in several waters; then put them to drain. 
Butter the shell and sprinkle a few bread crumbs over and fill in with 
the scallops, which have been minced and tossed in a little white sauce 
well seasoned, with a little vinegar added. Cover with bread crumbs, 
with a little butter on top, and brown in the oven. Dish on a folded 
napkin and serve. 

Oyster Patties — Bouchees aux HuItres 

Prepare some small patty cases from pufF paste (see p. 342, vol. i) and 
make the filling as follows. Take twelve sauce oysters and bring them 
to boil in their own liquor. Take out and remove the beards and black 
substance between the hai-d and soft parts. Cut into small dice, and leave 
until the sauce is ready. Reduce the liquor to one-half; then add half a 
pint of boiled milk; and thicken with white roux. Care must be taken to 
have it a little thicker than is required when finished, as the moisture from 
the oysters will tend to thin it. After it has boiled for a few minutes add 
salt, cayenne peppei", a little cream, and a little lemon juice. Pass through 
a tammy cloth into a stewpan and mix in the dice of oysters. Bring to 
the boil, stirring all the time; then place in a basin to cool until ready 
to fill the cases. 

Oyster Vol au Vent — Vol au Vent aux HuItres 

Proceed as above, using only the soft parts and leaving the oyster 
whole. For a vol au vent to serve for six persons twenty-four oysters will 
be required. 

Oysters A la Bechamel (Cold) — HuItres A la Bechamel (Froid) 

Scald the oysters as above, keeping only the soft parts, and reduce 
the liquor until only a tablespoonful remains. Mix this with a little 
Bechamel sauce; add a little lemon juice and melted gelatine, just 
enough to set it; cover each of the oysters with this mixture, and place 
a small pinch of cayenne pepper in the centre of each. When cold, 
brush over with aspic jelly and place on a cheese biscuit cut with a 
round crimped cutter a little larger than the oyster. When finished, dish 
on small salad and decorate with aspic jelly. 

CROQUEri'ES OF Oysters — Croquettes aux HuItres 

Prepare as for patties, using, after the sauce is prepared, the yolk of 
four eggs and a little gelatine. Set the yolk in the sauce, stir in the 
dice of oysters, and place on the ice to set. Then make into shapes by 
rolling them in bread crumbs. Egg well and breadcrumb, and fry to a 

Vol. II. 74 



106 



MENU DISHES 




Fig. 129.-Croiltes aux Iluitres 



golden colour, 
the garnish. 



Serve cold or hot. If served hot, fried parsley should be 



Kromeskies of Oysters — Kromeskys aux HuItres 

Use the same preparation as above. When cold and set, roll into 
pieces about the size of a wine cork. Fold these neatly in calves' flare, 
then dip in a good batter, and fry in boiling fat to a golden colour. 
Dish on a napkin with fried parsley. Another more expensive way is to 
set hard on the ice a slab of butter about 2 in. thick; then cut with a 
round cutter about the size of a shilling. Flour them, and egg and 
breadcrumb twice over. Make a mark at one end with a smaller cutter, 
and fry in very hot fat. Of course tlie butter will be lost, and the case 
remains to be filled up with the hot mixture. 

Oysters a la d'Uxelles — HuItres a la d'Uxelles 

Scald the oysters, retaining the delicate soft part. When cold, cover 
with d'Uxelles sauce to which has been added enough melted gelatine 
to set it, and place on the ice; then roll in bread crumbs and egg, and 
breadcrumb them twice over to save them from bursting. Dish on a 
napkin with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of d'Uxelles sauce. 

Scalloped Oysters — Coquilles aux HuItres 

Prepare the sauce as for patties, adding two egg yolks. When finished, 
place a little of the sauce in either silver shells or the deep shells of the 
oyster, and put in two oysters. Cover with the remainder of the sauce; 
sprinkle over with bread crumbs and a few pinches of butter on the top, 
and brown in the oven. Dish on a napkin. Grated Parmesan cheese may 
also be added if desired. 



SHELL FISH 



107 




^ ^'^^%\ 



mi. 




Fig. 130.— Scalloped Oybiers 



Oysters, American Style— HutxRES A l'Amfricaine 

These are scalded, egged, breaderumbed, fried, and served with tomato 
sauce. 

Lobster, American Style — Homard A l'Americaine 

Take some live lobsters and put them in boiling water with a little salt, 
and cook, if of medium size, about twenty minutes. Then divide the tail 
shell, and halve lengthways by splitting it with a knife. Remove the meat 
and clean the shells. Cut the meat into scallops, place back in the shells, 
and cover over with a sauce made as follows. Chop two shallots, and place 
in a stewpan with a pat of fresh butter. Fry for a few minutes, and add 
a little white wine. Reduce, and add a pint of tomato sauce and a gill of 
Espagnole sauce; then strain, garnish with lobster coral, and dish on a 
napkin, or, better still, on a long, narrow silver dish with dent in which to 
fit the shells. Hand a boat of sauce separately. 

Lobster Cutlets — COtelettes de Homard 

Remove the meat from the shell of a good lobster, and cut into dice 
ready for use. Break up the shell and head, saving the claws, and put on 
to boil with a pint of milk and a gill of water. After boiling long enough 
to extract all the flavour from the head, &c., strain, and thicken with white 
roux, adding a little anchovy essence, seasoning, the yolks of four eggs, and 
a little gelatine. After setting the yolks well, stir in the dice of lobster and 
bring to the boil; then place to cool. When set, make into cutlet shape by 
l)ending the right hand inwards and forming the hollow with the thumb 
of the left hand curved outwards. Egg, breadcrumb, and fry to a golden 
colour. Cut pieces of claw about 1 in. long, and stick in the top. 



108 



MENU DISHES 
Lobster Patties — Bouchees de Homard 



Prepare as for cutlets, and make sauce from shell, head, &c. When of 
a nice consistency and well seasoned, stir in the meat. Boil, and place to 
get cool, ready to till in the cases. 




Fig. 131. -Bouchees de Homard 

Lobster Mayonnaise — Mayonnaise de Homard 

Make a nice salad, and form into shape on a silver dish. Cut the 
lobster up, and save a few of the best pieces for garnishing. Lay the 
remainder on the salad, and cover all over with mayonnaise. The mayon- 
naise must be stifFer than the mayonnaise sauce, and it is a good plan to 
work a little aspic jelly in it. Before spreading, garnish with the pieces of 
lobster saved for the purpose, coral, cucumber, hard-boiled egg, &c. 

Lobster Mayonnaise in Cases — Petite Mayonnaise de Homard 

en Caisses 

After taking out of the shell a good firm lobster, cut it into good-sized 
pieces and cover with mayonnaise sauce, to which some aspic jelly and a 
little melted gelatine have been added. Sprinkle over with lobster coral, 
and put to cool. When set, brush over with melted aspic. Prepare a salad 
of lettuce, endive, and small cress, mix with mayonnaise and the trimmings 
of lobster, and proceed to fill some fancy paper cases, either round or oval. 
Lay one piece of prepared lobster on the top of each. Garnish round with 
sliced cucumber, dish on a lace papei', and serve. 

Lobster Eissoles — Rissoles de Homard 

Prepare as for patties, fold about a dessertspoonful in short paste, stick- 
ing it of course with egg, cut into a semicircle shape with a crimped cutter. 
Egg over and sprinkle with vermicelli or bread crumbs, and fry in clear 
fat. When hot, serve fried parsley with them. 



SHELL FISH 109 

Scalloped Lobster — Coquilles de Homard 

Take some lobster patty meat, adding two yolks of eggs. Split the 
body shell in half with a knife, clean it, and butter and sprinkle with 
bread crumbs. Lay in the preparation, cover with bread crumbs, with a 
piece of butter here and there, and brown in the oven. 

Curried Lobster — Homakd au Kari (Kari de Homard) 

Cut the lobster into good slices, and throw into some good curry sauce. 
Make thoroughly hot, and dish within a wall of plain boiled rice. 

Potted Lobster 

Pound all the meat from a hen lobster to a smooth paste, adding about 
a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a little cayenne and grated nutmeg, and 
6 oz. of butter (fresh). Pass through a sieve, place neatly in jars, and run 
a thin layer of creamed butter on the top. 

Quenelles of Lobster — Quenelles de Homard 

Pound the flesh of a fresh-boiled lobster along with a good-sized 
whiting, and proceed exactly as for quenelles of whiting, using the spawn 
of the lobster passed through a sieve to colour it with. 

Mussels — Moules 

This shellfish requires careful watching, as by being on the fire too 
long it becomes hard. To prepare them for garnishing scallops, &c., the 
best method is as follows. Take a quart of mussels, thoroughly scrape 
and wash them, and place in a stewpan, with half a pint of white wine, 
a carrot, a sliced onion, and a handful of parsley. Cover, and proceed to 
make hot. When the shells are opened, take out and remove the black 
part, and beard* and keep for use. 

Scalloped Mussels— Coquilles de Moules 

Proceed as above; then butter some silver shells (well-scoured scallop 
.shells will do) and lay some mussels in each. Moisten with the reduced 
li(|uor obtained from them; season, and cover with bread crumbs, place 
some pieces of butter on top, and brown in a sharp oven. 



no 



MENU DISHES 



CHAPTER XXVII 

FISH ENTRfiES 

Rice Borders for Entrees 

Wash two handfuls of rice and put in a stewpan with half milk and 
half water, cook gently, adding more water as it soaks up, until it is ((uite 
a pulp, turn into mortar and pound quite smooth, lift on to a marble slab 
and tighten up with ground rice until firm; then roll out with rolling pin 
and cut out size required, pinch the edge (as shortbread) and let get cold. 
This is a very simple way of making a border, and will be found very useful. 

Oyster Fritters — Beignets d'HuItres 

Obtain some large fat oysters; beard them, and drain on a hair sieve. 
Sprinkle them with pepper and salt and some chopped parsley. Dip each 
one separately into a light fritter batter, and fry in hot dripping or lard. 
Dish on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Oyster Fritters a la Villeroi — Beignets d'HuItres a la Villeroi 

Scald some large, fat oysters; remove the beard and tough portion; 
drain on a sieve or napkin. Reduce the liquor until almost lost ; add 
enough German or white sauce to cover them. Bring the sauce to the 
boil, and add a yolk or two of egg. Then dip each oyster in this pre- 
paration, and lay them on a dish to get cold. Dip each in egg and bread 
crumbs. Fry to a nice light-brown colour. Put two or three on a small 
silver skewer, dish on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Oysters on Skewers — Hatelettes d'HuItres 

Scald some large fat oysters; drain them, and remove the tough portion. 
Put three or four on a tiny wooden skewer. With the liquor make a 
similar sauce to the above, adding a little chopped parsley. It must be 
made moderately thick, so that it can be poured all round the oysters and 
put away to get cold. Shape them with a knife into something like a 
cork; roll in bread crumbs; to assist this, dip in egg, and then in bread 
crumbs; do that twice. Fry to a nice light brown in a pan of hot di'ipping 
or lard. Remove the wooden skewer, and put a small silver one in its 
place. Dish on a d'oyley, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Oysters on Croutes— Croutes d'HuItres a la Calaisienne 

This dish can be served cold as well as hot. Cut and bake some 
croiitons of short paste about the size of half-a-crown. Scald and trim 
some large fat oysters. Reduce the liquor until almost lost; add milk and 
cream; thicken with some white roux; add pepper and salt to taste, and a 
little nutmeg. The sauce must be moderately thick. Dip each oyster into 
this sauce and lay on the croutes, one to each. Drop a few grains of 
cayenne on each one. If this dish is served cold, it will be advisable to add 



FISH ENTREES 111 

a little gelatine to the sauce. When cold, brush over with diluted aspic 
jelly. Dish up as a cold entree, and garnish with aspic, prawn, and parsley. 

Oyster Pudding — Boudin aux Hu1tre.s 

A plain or ornamental mould should be well greased with clarified 
butter and decorated with steamed yolk of egg, a little truffle, some lobster 
€oral (if procurable), and chopped pai-sley. Line the mould with a delicate 
but firm forcemeat made with a fresh whiting or haddock. Some large 
oysters (three to each person) should be scalded, and the beard and tough 
portion removed. Put the trimmings of the fish and oysters together in 
some milk and the oyster liquor; add a touch of onion and a piece of 
parsley, and boil all together to make sufficient sauce both for the inside 
■of the boudin and for garnishing when dished. With the oysters put a 
few sliced mushrooms and some small quenelles made from some of the 
forcemeat; add a little of the sauce, and till up the boudin. Put a layer of 
forcemeat over the whole, and steam for an hour. Turn on to the dish, but 
■do not remove the mould for a minute. Pour the remainder of the sauce 
ail over just before serving. 

Devilled Oysters — HuItres a la Diable 

Put three fat oysters and three discs of partly cooked thin streaky 
bacon alternately on a small silver skewer. Ten minutes before serving 
put them in a moderately hot oven to finish cooking. Season liberally 
with cayenne pepper and a little salt. Dish on a napkin, and serve some 
■devil sauce in a boat. Care should be taken to serve this dish very hot. 

Sardine Fritfers — Berjnets de Sardines a la Farringford 

Take some boneless sardines and remove their skins. Season with 
cayenne and a little salt. Fold each one in a piece of very thin short 
paste. Dip them in a nice light fritter batter, and fry in a pan of hot 
■dripping or lard. Dish on a napkin and garnish with fried parsley. Serve 
a. boat of good tomato sauce witii them. 

Scalloped or Buitered Lobster— Coquille de Homard 

Split the lobster right through lengthwise. Carefully remove the flesh 
fio as not to break the four pieces of shell. Boil shell and trimmings in 
milk, adding a piece of onion and parsley; boil these to make into sauce 
with some white roux. Cut the meat into very small dice; mix it with 
some sauce, adding a little chopped parsley and the necessary seasoning. 
Fill each piece of shell with the preparation; sprinkle bread crumbs over 
And a little clarified butter. Put in the oven to get hot; serve on a d'ojdey. 
To make this a satisfactory entree nmall lobsters should be chosen. 

Chartreuse of Fillets of Sole— Chartreuse dk Filets de Soles 

Spread the fillets full length and sprinkle them alternately with lobster 
coral, chopped paraley, and chopped truffle. Roll them up tightly and bind 



112 MENU DISHES 

round with a piece of cotton or thread. Boil them in some salt water for 
five or ten minutes and take out to get thoroughly cold. Butter well a 
plain mould and decorate it with slices of fillets. Line with a delicate 
forcemeat made with a fresh whiting or haddock. Cut up the remainder 
of the soles; add sliced mushroouis and a few quenelles made from the 
forcemeat; add also a little sauce made from the fish bones, and with this 
preparation fill in the Chartreuse. Put a layer of forcemeat over all and 
steam from one to one and a half hours. Turn on to the dish, but do 
not remove the mould for a minute. Pour sauce all over just before 
serving. 

Crepinettes a la Cardinal 

Make a good forcemeat from the rough parts of two lobsters and a fresh 
whiting. Colour this with some prepared spawn, and fold portions in a 
pig's caul that has been previously soaked in cold water. See that the 
forcemeat is properly seasoned, and a little essence of anchovy added. The 
crepinettes should be about 2 in. long and !{ in. wide, and as thick as 
a cutlet. Fry them in clarified butter. Serve with a ragout made from 
the best parts of the lobsters, some mushrooms, quenelles, and a truffle 
sliced. Pour a good cardinal sauce made from the shell trimmings, &c., 
round the base of the entree. 

Fillets of Sole, Venetian Style — Filets de Soles a la 
Venetienne (Cold) 

Take the fillets of soles. Skin and lay on a table, skin side up; dust 
with a little flour and spread with fish farce, which has been coloured 
with lobster spawn. Then fold and lay in a saute pan with a little fish 
liquor. Season with pepper and salt, cover with buttered paper, and cook 
in an oven for ten minutes. When cold, cover with a sauce made' from the 
liquor and two yolks of eggs and a little aspic jelly to set it. Sprinkle with 
chopped tarragon, brush lightly over with aspic jelly, and dish on salad 
decorated with cucumber. 

Mousseline de Saumon a la Montmorency (Cold) 

Take 1 lb. of salmon cut into small pieces free from bone and skin. 
Pound in a mortar with 1 oz. of bi^ead panada (crumb of bread soaked in 
milk and rubbed smooth). Add the whites of three raw eggs and pass 
Bread through a fine wire sieve; put into a basin and beat well. Season 
Panada ^yith pepper and salt and a dash of anchovy essence. Add a gill 
of cream and place on ice until required. Then shape in a spoon with 
a knife and lift ofiT with another spoon on to a saute pan. Pour boiling 
fish stock round them, and poach gently for ten minutes. When cold, 
cover with white sauce (fish) in which is mixed chopped truffle and lobster 
coral. Brush over with aspic, and dish on a border of whipped aspic. 
Garnish with cucumber. 



SWEETBREAD AND OTHER ENTRIES 113 

Mousse of Lobster in Aspic — Mousse de Homard en Aspic (Cold) 

Pound the meat of a hen lobster, taking care to save the coral for 
decorating. Soften with a little cream and pass through a wire sieve. 
Put into a basin and gently stir in a gill of good cream, a little anchovy- 
essence, and a spot of cochineal. Whip up the whites of two eggs stiff, and 
stir all gently together with a little aspic jelly. Pour into mould (or souffle 
case) previously decorated with coral, truffle, and parsley. 

Fillets of Sole in China Shells — Filets de Soles en Coquilles 
A LA Favorite (Cold) 

This consists of china shells filled with fillets of sole and pieces of 
lobster, coated with mayonnaise, and decorated with a prawn and tarragon 
leaves. Dish on a folded napkin. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

SWEETBREAD AND OTHER ENTRIES 

Sweetbreads — Ris de Veau 

Take a good pair of calves' breads, and bring to the boil in cold water. 
As soon as they boil throw into cold water; then pick any skin off and cut 
the superfluous part away. Put with trimmings into a stewpan with a 
carrot, a small turnip, half an onion, a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
a bay leaf, and a blade of mace. Cover with half white stock and half 
milk ; cook until done. Lift out on to a plate, strain the liquor, and thicken 
with white roux. Season and add some cream, and pass through a tammy 
cloth. Dish and pour sauce over. 

Medallions of Sweetbreads — M^daillons de Ris de Veau 

Cook as above, taking care not to cook them too much. When cold, cut 
crossways into slices ^ in. thick. Make the sauce as above, unless any 
special one is required, and dish the pieces round on a border of potato or 
on a forcemeat border. Place a garnish in the centre and pour sauce over. 
Lay a slice of truffle on each medallion. 

Sweetbreads A. la d'Uxelles — Ris de Veau A la d'Uxelles 

These are slices of sweetbread prepared as above and covered all over 
with d'Uxelles sauce. When cold and set, roll in bread crumbs; then egg 
and breadcrumb and fry. Dish and serve with d'Uxelles sauce poured round 
and a garnish of mushroom and truffles. 

Sweatbreads a la Villeroi— Ris de Veau A la Villeroi 

These are served in the same way as above, using German sauce to 

coat thctii with. Ganiish with a vegetable garnish and white sauce poured 

round. 

Vol. II. 76 



lU 



MENU DISHES 



Sweetbreads 1 l'Orly — Ris de Veau a l'Orly 

These consist of slices of cooked sweetbread dipped in batter, fried, and 
served with tomato sauce and fried parsley. 

Sweetbreads in Cases 

Cook some sweetbreads according to number recjuired. Make the white 
sauce from the liquor they were cooked in, adding extra cream. Season 
well. When cold, mix with the pieces of sweetbread and sliced mushroom 
and truffle, and fill in fancy paper cases. Place some bright chopped aspic 
jelly on top, and garnish with a little chopped truffle. 

Fried Sweetbreads — Ris de Veau Frits 

Blanch and skin, then braise in some stock with vegetable parsley and 
a blade of mace. Keep in the oven until nearly done; then take out, and, 
w^hen cold, cut into slices, or, if preferred, serve whole. Egg and bread- 
crumb and fry to a golden colour, and serve with tomato, Italian, or other 
well-seasoned sauce. 

Sweetbreads 1 la Toulouse— Ris de Veau 1 la Toulouse 

Blanch and skin a pair of good sweetbreads; then lard them by cutting 
strips of fat bacon, called larding bacon, which can be purchased for the 



Fig. 132 

a, Lardoon. 6, c, Larding needles. In 6 the lardoon is thrust down the split head. 
In c the lardoon is "threaded" through the ring 

purpose, and drawing them in neat rows in the top of the sweetbread 
with a larding needle (iig. 132). Braise in some good white stock with 
vegetable, parsley, a sprig of thyme, a few peppercorns, and a blade of 
mace until done. Dish with a financiere garnish and some good white 
sauce made from the liquor. This is sometimes called sweetbreads jinan- 
ciere, though more often sweetbreads financiere are served brown. 

Sweetbreads a la St. Cloud — Ris de Veau a la St. Cloud 

These are larded with pieces of tongue and truffle and braised and 
dished on potato, and white sauce is poured round, A garnish of steamed 



SWEETBREAD AND OTHER ENTRi:ES 115 

yolk and whites of egg cut into rounds and chopped truffle is sprinkled 
over them. 

Ris DE Veau a la Melita 

Prepare the sweetbreads exactly as for medallions; then coat each piece 
W'ith chicken quenelle or farce. Decorate with trutfle and pistachio, place 
in a saute pan with the liquor, cover with buttered paper, and place in the 
oven just long enough to set the farce. Have ready a croiiton of bread cut 
from a half-quartern stale sandwich loaf in the form of a bridge and fried 
in deep fat to a golden colour. Dish on the bridge so that they overlap 
each other. Stick a cutlet spike in each; put a pyramid of vegetable (cub 
in Julienne) on each side, and pour sauce made from the sweetbreads round 
the whole. 

Fillets of Sweetbread with Aspic Jelly — Filets de Ris de Veau 

A LA Gel^E 

Cook the sweetbreads as for medallions. When cold, cut into slices 
about ^ in. thick. Season, and coat over with foie gras which has been 
passed through a fine sieve, and put in a cool place to get firm. Then 
mask over with Bechamel sauce, decorate with truffle, and, when set, brush 
over several times with cold melted aspic. Dish on a rice border, and pipe 
some chopped aspic jelly (just a dash of melted aspic mixed with the 
chopped will be found much easier to pipe with) in between the fillets. 
Several garnishes may be used, such as olives turned and stuffed with 
puree of sweetbread made from trimmings, or mixed vegetables, tomatoes, 
peas, &c. &c. 

Sweetbreads, Marie Louise Style — Ris de Veau 1 la Marie Louise 

Lard the sweetbreads with truffles and fat bacon. Wrap them in a thin 
slice of fat bacon and buttered paper. Braise in some strong white stock 
well flavoured with vegetables, &c. Glaze them, and serve with a nicely 
dressed Mac^doine of vegetables and German sauce, in which are a few 
slices of truffle. 

Sweetbread Imperial — Ris dk Veau A lTmp^riale 

Lard the sweetbreads; braise and glaze them. Serve with pur^e of 
peas and a rich P^rigueux sauce. 

Sweetbread with Pistachio Nut — Ris de Veau aux Pistaches 

Stud the sweetbreads with blanched pistachios. Wrap them in a slice 
of fat bacon and buttered paper, and braise in a good, strong, well-flavoured 
white stock. Serve with a pur^e of celery, in which mix some chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

£PIGRAMME DE RiS DE VeAU 

Braise two sweetbreads and let them get cold. Cut them into slices. 
Cover half of the slices on one side with a light quenelle forcemeat and 
decorate. Stand these in a little gravy, cover with buttered paper, and 



116 



mem: dishes 



finish in the oven. Dip the other half in some German sauce and leave 
until cold. Egg and breadcrumb them and fry in deep fat. Dish them on 
a border of potato alternately. Garnish and sauces can be varied according 
to taste. 

Lambs' Sweetbreads, Milanese — Ris d'Agneau A la Milanalse 

Blanch the breads and lard the heart ones. Braise them in some good 
stock and glaze them nicely. Dish in a circle on a border of potato or 




Fig. 133.— Kis d'Agneau ii la Milanaise 



quenelle, and fill the centre with a mixture of macaroni, shredded tongue, 
mushrooms, and truffles, which has been dressed with Parmesan cheese, 
butter, and the necessary seasoning. Pour a rich tomato sauce round. 

Lambs' Sweetbreads and Spinach — Ris d'Agneau aux Epinards 

Lard and braise the sweetbreads and dish them on a plateau of dressed 
spinach. Pour some demi-glaze all over. 

Lambs' Sweetbreads in Cases, Gratinated — Petites Caisses de 
Ris d'Agneau au Gratin 

Braise enough sweetbreads to fill the necessary number of buttered 
raraequin or other paper cases. Cut the sweetbreads and put them in 
the cases. Fill with a very rich and rather thick Italian sauce, well- 
flavoured with sherry. Sprinkle some brown-bread crumbs over the top 
and stand them in a saute pan to make thoroughly hot in the oven. 

Scalloped Sweetbreads, Dauphine Style — Escalopes de Ris de 
Veau a la Dauphin^; 

Braise the sweetbreads and let them get cold. Cut them into slices 
and lay in a saute pan to warm in some German or Bechamel sauce. 
Cut some erotitons of tongue the same size round as the sweetbreads Lay 



SWEETBREAD AND OTHER ENTREES 117 

these in another saute pan, glaze them, and warm in the oven. Dish 
alternately on a border of potato. Put a garnish of mushrooms, truffles, 
tongue, and any odd pieces of sweetbread that may be over in the centre, 
and pour some German or Bechamel sauce round the base. 

Escalopes de Ris de Veau a l'Archiduchesse 

Blanch the sweetbreads and cut them into slices. Lard one with 
truffles, the next with bacon. Braise them and glaze nicely. Dish 
them alternately on a border of potato. Put a puree of peas in the 
centre, and a rich Espagnole sauce flavoured with sherry round the base. 

Ox Kidney Saute 

Take an ox kidney and cut it in thin slices. Melt a pat of butter in 
a saut^ pan and place the kidney in. Season with pepper and salt, and 
keep it on the move for ten minutes. Dredge over wuth flour. Add 
a gill of good stock and half a gill of Chablis. Simmer for five minutes, 
add some chopped parsley, and serve. 

Tripe A la Franqaise 

Shred two onions and 1 lb. of tripe about 1^ in. long. Place the 
onion in a saute pan with 1 oz. of butter and fry to a golden colour. 
Add the tripe and continue frying for five minutes more. Moisten with 
1 gill of stock, 1 gill of Espagnole sauce, and a little tomato pur^e. 
Simmer for twenty minutes. Skim, and throw in some chopped parsley. 

Season and serve. 

Calves' Brains a la Spezia 

Soak two calves' brains in cold water for an hour. Skin and put to 
boil in water with a little salt and vinegar added. Cook gently for 
fifteen minutes; set them under the hot-water tap for five minutes; then 
put to cool. In the meantime prepare some small onions and fry to a 
golden brown; put into a pint of brown sauce along with some fresh 
cooked mushrooms. Simmer gently by the side of the stove till the onions 
are cooked. Slice the brains into pieces | in. thick. Dust with flour, 
egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat to a light brown. Dish on a potato 
border, with onion and mushroom in centre, and pour sauce round. 

Minced Veal 

Cut any remains of cooked veal into small squares, and lay in a stew- 
pan. Season with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg, dredge a 
little flour over it, and add a little white stock. Simmer gently for half 
an hour. Just before serving add a little lemon juice and cream. Dish 
with pieces of toasted bread cut in triangle shapes. 

Veal Croquettes — Croquettes de Veau 

Prepare as for minced veal, adding when ready a tcaspoonful of 
chopped parsley and the yolks of four eggs. Keep on the fire for a few 



118 



MENU DISHES 



minutes to set the yolks, stirring all the time; then turn out on a dish, 
and place on ice. When quite firm, spread some bread crumbs on the 
table. Roll out the mixture into the shape and size of corks; roll them 
in bread crumbs; then dip them in eggs (which have been beaten for a 
minute) and roll in crumb again. Fry in deep fat to a golden colour 
and dish on a napkin, with fried parsley. 

Calves'-Feet Fritters — Pieds de Veau en Friture 

The calves' feet must be boiled in just enough water to make them 
quite soft. Strain away the liquor; pick out all bones. Season the meat 
with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, put between two dishes 
to press, and get thoroughly cold. With a round cutter cut out enough 
pieces for the entree and lay in a little vinegar and oil for an hour or 
so. Drain on a sieve; dust on both sides with flour; dip in a light 
fritter batter, and fry in a pan of hot fat. Dish on a napkin. Garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve piquante, tomato, Italian, or some other 
rich sauce with them in a boat. 

Calves'-Feet, Toulouse — Pieds de Veau a la Toulouse 

Prepare and press the calves' feet. Cut out enough pieces with an 
oval or round cutter. Spread some thick German sauce on each side; 
dip them in egg and bread crumbs twice. Shape them nicely and fry 
in hot fat. Dish on a border of potato. Put a garnish of button nmsh- 
rooms, scallops of tongue, and a sliced truffle in the centre, and pour a 
rich white sauce flavoured with sherry round the base. 

Veal Grenadins, Nivernaise — Grenadins de Veau a la Nivernaise 

Lard some thick veal cutlets with strips of fat bacon. Braise and 
glaze them richly. Dish on a border of potato, and in the centre put 
some nicely dressed turnips that have been cut with a fancy cutter. 
Pour some German sauce round the base. 



CHAPTER XXIX 
rOIE GRAS AND OTHER ENTRIES 



Small Cases of Foie Gras and Truffles— Petites Caisses de 
FoiE Gras aux Truffes 

Oil the ramaquin cases, and put them in the oven for a minute or 
two to dry. For this entree the whole liver should be used. Cut it 
into small thick pieces and lay in the cases alternately with some sliced 
trufile. Fill up the cases with a well-flavoured German sauce and make 
them thoroughly hot through in the oven. 



FOIE GRAS AND OTHER ENTRIES 119 

FoiE Gras Cutlets with Perigueux Sauce — (^telettes de Foie 

GrAS a la PjfeRIGUEUX 

Slice a liver and shape into cutlets. Pound the trimmings into a paste. 
Add a few fresh bread crumbs, a little white sauce, and a yolk or two of 
egg. Lay a slice of truffle on the cutlet, and then spread some of the 
mixture on both sides. Dip them in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in a 
pan of hot fat. Dish on a border of potato, and pour over them a sauce 
made with good Espagnole, in which place some chopped truffles. Flavour 
well with sherry. 

Russian Kromeskies — Kromeskies k la Russe 

Make a salpicon by cutting into very small dice some chicken, tongue, 
mushrooms, and truffles. Mix them in some boiling white sauce and add 
two or three yolks of eggs. Lay this mixture on a dish to get cold. Roll 
portions of it into the size and shape of an ordinary cork, and cover all 
over with a slice of very thin fat bacon which has been parboiled in stock. 
Sprinkle with flour. Dip them in a light batter, and fry in a pan of hot 
fat. Dish on a napkin and garnish with fried parsley. 

French Kromeskies — Kromeskies A. la FRANgAisE 

Put the salpicon in some very thin short paste; pat them out flat and 
oblong. Dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in the ordinary way. Dish 
on a napkin and put a bouquet of fried parsley in the centre. 

FoiE Grab SouFFLis— Petits Souffles de Foie Gras 

With some pate de foie gras mix a little German sauce, fi'esh bread 
crumbs, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Season to taste. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth and gently stir into the mixture. Half- 
fill some well-buttered or oiled ramaquin cases with the mixture, and bake 
80 that they are done just in time to serve, which will be from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Dish on a napkin. 

Pa UFA IT DE FoiK Gras 

Pound and pass the foie gras through a tine sieve, boat up stiff' ths 
whites of three eggs, stir into a gill of half-whipped cream, and stir gently 
into the foie gras. Season with salt and pepper, and add some cold liquid 
juspic. Pour into a silver souffle dish, and when set decorate with truffle 
and cover the whole with \ in. of aspic jelly. 

Mousse of Foie Gras — Mousse de Foie Gras 

Prepare as for parfait, but fill into a mould lined with aspic jelly and 
decorated. 



120 



MENU DISHES 



Sweetbread in Timbale— Timbale de Kis de Veau en demi Duel 

Butter well a plain mould and decorate it with truffles and steamed 
white of egg. Cover the whole decoration with a rather thick layer of 
delicate quenelle forcemeat, and fill the cavity with small pieces of sweet- 
bread, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles mixed with a little thick white 
sauce. Cover with a thin layer of forcemeat and steam for an hour and a 
half. Turn on to the dish, but do not remove the mould for a minute. 
This allows it to settle, and prevents it from breaking. Pour some 
white sauce all over, and sprinkle round the base with a little chopped 
truffle. 

Timbale, Milanese Style — Timbale a la Milanaise 

Take a round plain Charlotte mould and butter well. Make a paste by 
rubbing 1 oz. butter into 3 oz. flour with the yolks of two eggs, a pinch of 
sugar, and very little water, mixing to a firm paste and setting in a cool 
place. Lay some strips of the paste round the mould, brush over with 
water, and put a lining of pufl" paste all over. Boil some spaghetti till 
cooked, drain on a cloth, and cut into pieces 2 in. long. Mix with some 
grated Parmesan cheese, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nut- 
meg. Fill in the mould, cover with paste, and bake in a medium oven. 
When cooked, turn out on an entree dish, cut out the centre of the top, 
and take out some of the spaghetti, sufficient to hold about a dozen small 
chicken quenelles, some finely shredded tongue, &c., mushroom and truffle 
mixed in German sauce and brought up to a pyramid on top. Pour some 
German sauce round, and decorate with chopped truffle on the sauce. 

Vegetable Chartreuse — Chartreuse de Legumes 

Butter a plain Charlotte mould well. Decorate it with a variety of 
partly cooked vegetables; then line it with a delicate forcemeat made from 
veal or chicken. Fill the centre with a Macedoine of cooked vegetables, a 
little thick white sauce, and the necessary seasoning. Put a layer of force- 
meat over all, and steam like a pudding for an hour to an hour and a half. 
Turn on to the dish, but do not remove the mould for a minute or so. Pour 
a nicely flavoured white sauce round. 

Chartreuse en demi Duel 

Butter a Charlotte mould or small Timbale moulds well, and decorate 
with black truffles and steamed white of egg. Put a layer of light quenelle 
forcemeat all round the top and fill the centre with chicken, tongue, mush- 
rooms, and small quenelles mixed in German sauce. Put a layer of 
forcemeat over and steam like a pudding for an hour and a half. Do 
not remove the mould for a minute or so after turning it on to the dish. 
Pour some German sauce round the base, and sprinkle chopped truffle over 
just before serving. If small moulds are used the filling should be cut into 
dice. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 121 

CHAPTER XXX 

ENTRfiES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

Zephyrs de Caneton a la Belle Ile 

Take all the meat off a nice firm duck, pound in the mortar with 2 oz. 
bread panada (see p. 112), add two raw eggs, and pass through a fine wire 
sieve. Beat well, season with pepper and salt and a dash of nutmeg, add 
half a pint of cream, then try a little by steaming in a small mould (it must 
be only just set). Next fill into a round small savarin mould, buttered, and 
steam gently for twenty minutes. Have ready some round croutes of puff 
paste (baked) I in. thick, and turn out on each croftte. Dish on a puree of 
spinach lengthways on a long dish, and fill the centre of each zephyr with 
small cherries (which have been simmered in red wine for five minutes). 
Make the sauce by chopping up the carcass of the duck with an onion and 
a pinch of sage, reduce and add to some Espagnole sauce, also a table- 
spoonful of the wine from the cherries, and pour all round. Chicken may 
be done in the same way, using a mac(^doine of vegetables for garnish and 
white sauce. 

Small Rounds of Turkey Fillets — Miroton de Dindonneau 
A LA Chatelaine 

Take the fillets from a plump young turkey, beat out with a cutlet- 
beater, and lay in a saute pan. Slice a small onion, half a leek, a carrot, 
and a turnip; put with some trimmings of ham into a stewpan; add a little 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay leaves, a blade of mace, and a pat 
of butter. Simmer for five minutes and spread over the fillets. Pour a 
pint of stock over the whole, cover with buttered paper, and cook gently in 
the oven until quite tender; then put aside to cool. In the meantime pre- 
pare with the meat from the thighs a quenelle meat (same as for chicken); 
then cut with a round cutter the size of a five-shilling piece as many fillets 
as may be required. Spread ejich piece witli the farce and decorate with 
smoked tongue. Put back in the saut(5 pan; cover, and steam for ten 
minutes to set the quenelle meat. Trim as many artichoke bottoms as 
there are fillets, hollow out the centre, and fill in with star tube a pur^e of 
chestnut. Dish bridge-fashion down a dish with the artichokes and noisette 
potato alternately. Serve with velout^ sauce to which has been added 
reduced liquor from the fillets. 

Small Pieces of Rabbit Braized— Grenadins de Lapereau 
A LA Maintenon 

Take a young rabbit, chop ofl' the legs and cut the btick (with the fillets 

on) into equal-sized pieces, and lard them with bacon fat. Cut up a carrot, 

a turnip, a leek, and an onion; place in a stewpan with a pat of butter, 

a little parsley, a few peppercorns, and a Hprig of thyme; sot it to frizzle 
Vol. II. ' 76 



122 MENU DISHES 

gently; then lay the pieces of rabbit on top and continue for ten minutes. 
Add a pint of boiling stock and simmer gently till quite tender. Lift out, 
strain the liquor, and reduce with a gill of Chablis. Add half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce and dish on spinach. Glaze the rabbit and pour sauce 
round. 

Small Galantine of Chicken — Ballotines de Volailles 

Lay a boned fowl, meat side up, on the table; divide the meat equally 
and cut into pieces (sufficient when forcemeat is on and rolled to be about 
2 in. in diameter). Season with pepper and salt and spread with a galantine 
forcemeat, of course cutting the strips of tongue, &c., smaller. Roll up in 
a cloth; tie each end, and tie once in the middle very tight. Boil the 
ballotines in some good well-flavoured stock. When cooked, which will 
take about three-quarters of an hour, lift out; when cold enough to 
handle, undo, roll up again, and re-tie; then set to get quite cold. Glaze, 
sprinkle the top with chopped pistachio, and just slice through slantwise. 
Dish on salad or rice socle with aspic jelly. 

Fillets of Chicken in Aspic — Fillets de Volailles en Belle Vue 

Remove the breasts of two fowls, beat out with a cutlet bat, and lay in 
a buttered saute pan, with some well-flavoured chicken stock. Cover with 
buttered paper and cook gently in the oven. When quite tender, lift out, 
press, and put to cool. Cut with a round cutter the size of half-a-crown. 
Mask over with Bechamel sauce, decorate with a round of truffle, and 
round that a ring of tongue and a ring of steamed yolk of egg outside the 
tongue. Brush over with aspic, and set in small round moulds with very 

clear aspic jelly. 

Curried Fowl — Kari de Volaille 

Cut a fowl into eight nice pieces. Place in a stewpan with a pat 
of butter and fry to a light golden colour. Season, add a carrot, a turnip, 
an onion cut up, some parsley, and two bay leaves. Put the lid on and 
sweat for ten minutes. Add a tablespoonful of curry powder and one 
of flour; stir, and add three pints of stock. Simmer gently till the fowl 
is tender; then lift out, strain, and skim the liquor, and put the chicken 
back in it to be kept hot until required. Dish in the centre with plain 
rice round. Chutney should be handed with it. 

Rice for Curry 

Wash the rice well two or three times in clean cold water; then put 
into a stewpan with plenty of boiling water and a teaspoonful of salt. 
Stir to keep the grain separated, and, when almost cooked, strain well, 
and place in the oven on a sieve to dry. 

Filets de Volailles a la Boulangere 

These are fillets of chicken sauted and masked over with chicken 
quenelle, in which has been mixed some finely chopped truffle. Have a 



ENTRilES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC 123 

garnish of stewed pieces of cucumber (cut into olive shapes), and serve with 
a white chicken sauce. 

Stewed Chicken, Marengo — Poulet Saute A la Marengo 

Cut a chicken into eight nice-sized pieces. Place in a saute pan, with 
a gill of salad oil made hot, and fry to a golden colour on both sides. Lift 
out into a stewpan containing some Espagnole sauce, to which have been 
added half a pint of tomato sauce and a little chicken stock. Stew gently 
for half an hour, or until quite tender. Skim away carefully any oil that 
may be on the top. Add about a dozen mushrooms sliced; dish, and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley; pour sauce all over. 

Fillets of Chicken, Supr£;me — Filets de Volaille en Supreme 

The breast of the fowl should be cut into four small cutlets. Lay 
them in a saute pan with oiled butter. Cover with buttered paper; add 
a little stock or water, and cook in the oven. Dish loosely on a border 
of potato, and pour a white cream sauce made from the carcass of the fowl 
all over. Then between the fillets place a slice of tongue made hot in demi- 
glaze. Put a garnish of white button mushrooms in the centre, and pour 
.some supreme sauce round. 

Fillets of Fowl a la Bigarure — Filets de Volaille a la Bigarure 

Cut the breast of the fowl into four small cutlets; cook them, and press. 
With the legs of the fowl make quenelle farce, and cover each fillet with a 
dome of it. Sprinkle them with some finely chopped tongue, and lay them 
in a saut^ pan with a little stock or milk. Cover with buttered paper, and 
cook them in the oven. Dish on a border of potato. Put some nicely 
dressed spinach in the centre and a puree of celery and sauce round. Just 
before serving, sprinkle some finely chopped pistachios over the sauce. 

Fillets of Chicken, Regence — Filets de Volaille a la Rkgence 

Cut the breast of a fowl into four small cutlets; cook and press. Put 
a dome of light quenelle on each, and decorate with truffles, tongue, and 
pistachios. Lay them in a saut^ pan with a little stock or milk, cover with 
buttered paper, and cook in the oven. Dish on a border of potato. Fill 
the centre with a garnish of cocks' combs, mushrooms, truffles, and tongue, 
and pour a white cream sauce all round. 

Fillets of Chicken, Duchesse— Filets de Volaille A la Duchesse 

Cut the breast of a fowl into four cutlets, and lard them alternately 
with tongue, truffle, and bacon. Brai.se them in some chicken stock. Dish 
on a border of potato. Put a pur^e of green peas in the centre, and pour a 
white Italian sauce round the base. 



124 



MENU DISHES 



Fricassee of Fowl — Fricassee de Volaille 

Cut a chicken into small neat joints, and cover with cold water. Add 
a little salt, bring to the boil, and carefully skim. Add onion, carrot, 
thyme, and a little grated nutmeg, and boil until the parts are quite 
tender. Strain the liquor, and make into a cream sauce. Add some 
button mushrooms and sliced truffles. Dish the fowl in a heap, and pour 
the sauce all over. Garnish with a few fried croutons of bread or glazed 
tongue. 

Blanquette of Fowl and Mushrooms — Blanquette de Volaille aux 

Champignons 

Cut up a boiled fowl into small pieces, to which add some small button 
mushrooms. Mix all together, season with pepper and salt and a little 




Fig. 134,— Blanquette of Fowl (cold) 

nutmeg, and add some rather thick chicken cream sauce. Fill a border 
mould with some boiled and well-dressed rice. Turn on to the dish, and 
pile the preparation of chicken to the shape of a dome. Pour some cream 
sauce round the base, and sprinkle a few slices of truffles over it. This is 
a useful entree where chicken is left over from a previous dinner. 



Quenelles of Chicken, Fran^aise — Quenelles de Volaille a la 

Fran^aise 

Boil a leg of the fowl. Make the rest into a light quenelle fa^ce. 
Mince the leg very fine, and mix with a little stiff white sauce. V/hen 
moulding the quenelle in the spoon, put a little of the mixture in the 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 125 

middle, and finish in the ordinary way. Poach them in some chicken 
stock. Dish on a border of farce or potato. Cover with a white cream 
sauce, and sprinkle alternately with finely chopped tongue, truffles, and 
pistachios. 

Chicken Quenelles, Lucullus— Quenelles de Volaille a la Lucullus 

Chop a truffle finely, and mix with a little chicken glaze. Put a 
portion of this in each quenelle. Decorate them, and poach in some 
chicken stock. Dish on a border of farce or potato. Cover with a cream 
sauce flavoured with some pate de foie gras. Put a fried croustade of bread 
in the centre, with a silver skewer on which place a good black truffle. 

Chicken Bread, Victoria — Pain de Volaille A la Victoria 

Pound well a partly boiled fowl. Add half as much bread crumbs as 
fowl, the whites of three eggs, and a little cream. Season with pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg; also a pinch of cayenne. Put in a well-buttered mould 
which has been decorated. Steam for forty-five minutes, according to size 
of mould (which should be a fluted one for preference). Pour a white 
cream sauce all over. 

Chicken Zephyr, Cream Sauce— Zephyr de Volaille 1 la Creme 

This preparation is the same as the foregoing, except that the chicken 
should be uncooked, and the cream must be whipped just before mixing 
and steaming; and care should be taken that it is cooked just in time to 
serve, as it is very light in its consistency. These entries can also be 
served as petits pains, &c., by using small timbale moulds. 

Parisian Timbale — Timbale A la Parisienne 

Take a Charlotte mould or small timbale moulds well buttered and 
decorated. Line them with some light chicken farce, and fill the cavity 
with a ragoiit of chicken, tongue, mushrooms, truffles, and a small quantity 
of thick white sauce. Cover with another layer of farce, and steam like a 
pudding. Turn on to the dish, and let it stand a minute before removing 
the mould. Pour a thin cream sauce all over just before serving. If small 
moulds are used, the chicken, «fec., should be cut into small dice. 

Victoria Sausages — Cr^inettes A. la Victoria 

Remove all skin and gristle from the flesh of a boiled fowl. Add some 
fat ham or bacon to the meat; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little 
sweet herbs. Chop it all together, or put through the mincing mjichine to 
make it into sausage meat. Soak a pig's caul in cold water. Then roll 
portions of the mixture in the caul to make flat, oblong sausages. Saut^ 
these in clarified butter, and dish on a border of potato. Lay a slice of 
truffle on each, and pour a rich tomato sauce round. 



126 MENU DISHES 

Chicken Fritters— Poulets en Friture 

The flesh of a cold roast or boiled fowl should be cut into rather small 
pieces. Lay them in a marinade of vinegar, oil, onion, thyme, parsley, and 
pepper and salt for two or three hours. Dip each piece in a light fritter 
batter, and fry in deep fat. Dish on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve piquante sauce in a boat. This entree is useful where fowl has 
been left over from a previous dinner. 

Chicken Panada, Princess — Pain de Volaille A la Princesse 

Pound the flesh of a partly cooked fowl to a complete pulp; add half 

the quantity of fresh bread crumbs, three or four whites of eggs, a gill of 

cream, and the necessary seasoning. Put in a well-buttered and floured 

fluted mould, and steam for three-quarters of an hour so as to be cooked 

just in time to serve. Pour over it a cream sauce made from the bones of 

the chicken. Put some finely shredded French beans in the centre, and a 

few thin scollops of glazed tongue round the base. In making entrees of 

this description it is advisable to cook a little of the preparation to test its 

correctness. It should be very light, though firm, and therefore may need 

more egg to bind, or cream to soften it. Steam some in a tiny mould 

to try it. 

Petites Timbales a la Eoyale 

Ornament the small moulds with tongue and steamed white of egg. 

Line them with some light quenelle meat, fill the cavity with a mixture 

of chicken, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles cut into small dice, and mix 

in some reduced Espagnole sauce. Cover with a little more quenelle meat, 

and steam for twenty or thirty minutes. Turn them on to the dish, but do 

not remove the mould for a minute. Pour some w'hite chicken cream sauce 

round. 

Small Chicken Souffles — Petits Souffles de Volaille 

Pound the flesh of a partly cooked fowl, and rub it through a wire 
sieve. Add two or three spoonfuls of fine fresh bread crumbs, and stir all 
together in a basin with the white of one egg and a spoonful of cream. 
Season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Whip the whites of three or four 
more eggs to a stiff" froth, mix carefully but thoroughly in the mixture, 
and half-fill some oiled or buttered ramaquin cases. Bake for fifteen or 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven, so as to be cooked just in time for 
serving. Dish on a napkin. 

Pigeon CoMroTE, Fin ANgiERE— Compote de Pigeons 1 la FiNANgiERE 

Bone the pigeons, put some w^ell-flavoured sausage meat in them, roll 
them in a cloth, and boil like a galantine. Keep them small. Let them 
get thoroughly cold. Cut them in halves lengthways, then each half 
diagonally, so that there are four pieces to each pigeon. Lay the pieces 
in a saute pan or stewpan with a little stock to make hot again. Dish on 
a border. Put a ragout of cocks' combs, mushrooms, tongue, and truffles 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 127 

in the centre, and pour all over a rich brown sauce made with the pigeon 
bones and flavoured with tomato and sherry. 

Pigeon Compote and Peas — Compote de Pigeons aux Petits Pois 

The compote is to be prepared as above, but some well-dressed peas are 
to be put in the centre, and a brown sauce round. 

Pigeon Compote, Zingara — Compote de Pigeons A. la Zingara 

The forcemeat should be flavoured with some pate de foie gras and 
truffles. Dish on a border, and garnish with stufled olives and fresh button 
mushrooms. Pour a Perigueux sauce round the base. 

Pigeon Medallions and Asparagus — Medaillons de Pigeons aux 

POINTES d'ASPERGES 

The galantine of pigeon should be made as for compote; but it should 
be cut in slices, and kept as round as possible. Lay them out in a saute 
pan in stock to make hot. Dish on a border. Garnish with the tender 
part of asparagus cut into inch lengths, cooked and dressed, and pour a 
white or brown sauce made from the bones round the entree. 

Pigeon Cutlets — C6telettes de Pigeons 

To cut a pigeon into cutlets, cut it down the breast and through the 
wing joint. Carefully cut all the flesh from the bone, pull the leg joint 
out of its socket, and draw all away to the centre of the back. In this 
way four cutlets are made from each pigeon. Take one bone from the thick 
part of the leg to the joint, cut the foot part off at the other joint, and cut 
away the wing. Lay them out flat in a saute pan, and cook until tender. 
Place them between two dishes to press until quite cold. Another way is 
as follows. Take out the two fillets, cook and press, and keep a leg bone 
to stick in each fillet when finishing. There is still the following third 
way. Bone the pigeon, fill it with a forcemeat of some kind, roll it in 
a cloth, and boil like a galantine. Before it gets quite cold cut it in half 
lengthways, then each half diagonally, so that each piece is long and 
pointed. Lay them between two dishes and press flat. This will make 
four cutlets. ,The result will show which way is preferable. 

Pigeon Cutlets, Bourguignoite— C6teleites de Pigeons A la 

Bourguignotte 

Trim the pigeon cutlets into shape, and put a dome of light quenelle 
forcemeat on each. Smooth them with the blade of a knife dipped in hot 
water. Lay them out in a saute pan with a little st(x;k. Cook in the oven 
and glaze them well. Di.sh on a border of potato or forcemeat. Put a 
garnish of button mushrooms, braised button onions, small quenelles, and 
sliced truffles in the centre. The sauce made from the pigeon l)ones, 
flavoured with port wine, currant jelly, and a little lemon juice, should be 
pourerl round. 



128 



MENU DISHES 



Pigeon Cutlets, Pompadour — C6TELErTEs de Pigeons a la Pompadour 

Trim the cutlets into shape, and cover each with some German sauce 
in which mix some chopped mushrooms. Dip them in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. Dish on a border. Put a garnish of dressed 
green peas in the centre, and pour round Soubise sauce flavoured with the 
pigeon bones. 

Pigeon Cutlets, Lucullus — C6telettes de Pigeons A la Lucullus 

Mix a few bread crumbs and a yolk or two of egg in some pat^ de foie 
gras. Cover the pigeon cutlets with this mixture, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Dish on a border. Garnish the centre with 
stuffed olives, mushrooms, quenelles, and truffles, and pour a Perigueux 
sauce made from the pigeon bones round the base. 

Pigeon Fillets, Varenne— Filets de Pigeons 1 la Varenne 

Cook and press the pigeon fillets. Make a dome of quenelle forcemeat 
on each. Brush with white of egg and sprinkle chopped truffles over each. 
Lay in a saute pan with some stock. Cover with buttered paper and cook 
in the oven. Dish on a border, put a puree of peas in the centre, and a rich 
Italian sauce round. 

Pigeon Turban — Turban de Pigeons 

Bone the pigeons, lay them out flat and cut right down the breast, put 
a roll of forcemeat or foie gras in each, and roll each half to the size and 




Fig. 135. — Pigeon Farci 

length of a sausage. Tie in a cloth and then tie tightly acruss the 
centre. Cook and get them cold. Cut them across the centre, which 
will make four pieces of each pigeon. Make a circle of forcemeat and 
lay the pieces of pigeon on end all round. With a forcing -bag pipe 
farce between the pieces of pigeon, and decorate turban fashion with 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 129 

chopped tongue, truffles, and pistachios. Put some buttered paper round 
and steam or bake it to finish. Ditlerent garnishes and sauces can be used 
according to fancy. 

Fillets of Guinea Fowl — Filets de Pintade a la Lorraine 

Braise two young guinea fowls. When cooked and cold, cut from the 
breasts twelve good fillets, spread over a puree of ham, and mask with 
brown chaudfroid sauce. When set, brush over several times with cold 
melted aspic. Decorate with steamed white of egg, dish on an aspic 
border, and garnish with green peas mixed with mayonnaise. 

Fillets of Grouse a la Bohemienne 

Lift the breasts from two young grouse, flatten out a little with the 
cutlet bat, and lay in a saute pan with a braise of vegetables and a little 
stock. Cover with buttered paper and cook gently in the oven till quite 
tender. W^ith the trimmings of meat left make a well-seasoned farce. 
Pass through a fine wire sieve. Trim the fillets (each side should make 
two) and pipe over with a star tube and forcing-bag; then prepare farce. 
Set in the oven for ten minutes. Dish in the shape of a crown on a potato 
border, put a garnish of foie gras (cut into small rounds with half a cherry 
stuck on with a little farce) in centre, pour round a well-seasoned brown 
sauce flavoured with grouse, and serve. 

Lark Pudding — Boudin de Mauvieti'es 

Line a pudding basin with suet crust (^ lb. beef suet chopped fine to 
1 lb. flour and a little salt, then mixed with water rather stifl"). Have 
ready 1 lb. rump steak, cut in slices and beaten out, 24 larks boned and 
stuffed, 18 oysters bearded. Put a layer of steak in first, then a layer of 
oysters, one of larks, and so on till full, seasoning with pepper and salt and 
a little flour. Pour in some good stock; cover with suet crust; tie a pud- 
ding cloth tightly over, and put in boiling water. Keep boiling for three 
hours. Dish on a folded napkin with another round basin. 

The stuffino- for larks is made as follows. Take h lb. veal cutlet and 
i lb. sausage; pound together in a mortar; pass through a sieve. INIix with 
a little chopped truffle, tongue, ham, and parsley (if available, a little foie 
gras is a great improvement), a few bread crumbs, and two eggs. Force 
into the larks with a piping bag and a large tube. 

Mauvieties a la Comtesse Rosetti 

Prepare and dish same as turban, using a garnish of cocks' combs dipped 
in batter and fried golden. Pour Espagnole sauce round, with the reduced 
liquor from the bones of the larks added. 

Crepinettes a la Chasseur 

This is a sausage meat to be made from some kind of game. Mix in it 
some dice of fat bacon that has been partly boiled; also mushrooms and 
Vol II. 77 



130 MENU DISHES 

truffles and a little sherry. Season to taste; then roll portions in a pig's 
caul, and shape into flat oval pieces. Saute them in clarifled butter. Serve 
with a ragoiit of stufled olives, mushrooms, and truffles put in the centre, 
and a rich Espagnole sauce flavoured with the game bones poured round. 

Lauks in Small Cases — Mauviettes en Petites Caisses 

Bone the larks, one for each case. Stuff" with forcemeat made from 
liver, or with veal flavoured with some pate de foie gras. Roll each lark 
into shape and put in buttered paper. Lay them in a tin and bake for ten 
minutes, or braise them for the same time. Oil and dry the paper cases; put 
a lark in each and fill in with a good brown sauce made with the bones, &c. 
Put a button mushroom on the top of each, and make hot through in the 
oven. 

Larks, Montgolfier — Mauviettes a la Montgolfier 

Bone the larks. Farce them and make into a small ball. Roll in paper 
or a cloth and cook them. Let them get quite cold, and put a layer of 
salpicon all round them. Roll in a piece of pig's caul, keeping them as 
round as possible. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in deep fat. Dish 
on a napkin. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve tomato sauce in a 
boat. 

Lark Turban — Turban de Mauviettes 

Bone and stuff" the larks. Cook them and get them cold. Have some 
quenelle forcemeat and proceed as for turban of pigeons. The garnish and 
sauce can be varied according to circumstances. 

Cases of Larks' Fillets and Fine Herbs — Filets de Mauviettes 
en Caisses aux fines Herbes 

Fillet the larks, and set them off" in a saute pan. Add some sliced 
truffle, Espagnole sauce, chopped mushroom, parsley, and a little onion. 
Braise all together until the fillets are thoroughly tender. Fill the paper 
cases, which must be previously oiled and dried. Lay them on a tin, 
and make hot through in the oven. 

Fillets of Larks on Silver Skewers — Filets de Mauviettes 
en HItelettes 

Fillet the larks and braise them. Put three fillets and two slices of 
mushroom or foie gras on a tiny wooden skewer. Cover them round with 
some thick sauce made to set. Let them get thoroughly cold. Shape them 
round like a cork, dip in egg and crumbs twice, and fry in deep fat. Take 
out the wooden skewer and replace it with a small silver one. Dish on a 
napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Quails, Syrienne — Cailles a la Syrienne 

After having boned, stuff'ed, and cooked the quail, cut in halves and 
coat over with a brown game farce. Decorate with steamed 3'olk and 
white of egg and set off" in the oven. Dish on a potato border round a 



ENTRIES OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 131 

pyramid of tiny chicken (juenelles. Pour a rich game sauce round and 
serve. Care should be taken to set the legs perfectly straight; otherwise 
an untidy appearance is produced. 

Stuffed Quails in Casserole — Cailles Farcies en Casserole 

Prepare the quail as for cailles farcies a la financiere; divide in halves 
and lay overlapping each other in an oval or round casserole pot. Ari-ange 
the legs nice and even; pour in enough sauce financiere to little more than 
half-cover the quail; make hot in the oven and pltice a vegetable or other 
garnish as required in the centre. Place the casserole on a napkin and 
serve. Plain roast quail, &c., may be served with gravy in the same 
way. It has the advantage of keeping nice and hot. 

Quails Farced a la Financiere — Cailles Farcies k la Financiere 

Bone the quails and stuff' with a quenelle farce made of liver, veal, 
or foie gras. Roll them in buttered paper to keep in shape; lay them in 
a saute pan with a little stock, and braise them in the oven until cooked. 
Get them thoroughly cold, and cut in halves lengthwise down the breast. 
Lay them out again in the saute pan to make hot through. Dish on 
a border of potato or forcemeat, with croiites of fried bread between the 
pieces of (|[uail. Put a ragoilt of cocks' combs, tongue, quenelles, mush- 
room, and truffles in the centre, and a rich brown sauce made with the 
bones and flavoured with sherry round the base. 

Quail Salmis and Stuffed Tomatoes— Cailles en Salmis aux 
Tomates Farcies 

Truss and partly roast the quails, get them cold, and cut them in halves. 
Lay them out in a shallow stewpan or saut^ pan, and cover with a rather 
thin rich brown sauce. Braise and reduce the sauce to a proper consis- 
tency. Flavour with sherry. Dish the quails on a border with a croute 
of fried bread between the halves. Pour the sauce round the base. The 
stuffed tomatoes are prepared as follow\s. Cut through like an orange, 
squeeze out the liquor, and take out the pips. Fill in with a mixture 
of chopped mushrooms, parsley, a little onion, a few bread crumbs, the yolk 
of an egg, and a spoonful of brown sauce. Sprinkle with a few brown 
crumbs and bake for about ten minutes. Put these in the centre of the 
entree. 

Farced Quails in Cold Consomm^— Cailles Farcies au Consomm^ Froid 

Bone, farce, and cook the quails. When thoroughly cold cut in halves 
and lay them flat in an entree dish on a layer of set consomm^. Decorate 
each piece with cg^, truffle, and tongue, and cover entirely with a nearly 
cold, clear consomm^ flavoured with the bones and made to set, with 
gelatine added if necessary. The consomme must be well flavoured and 
not too firm, so that they can be served from the dish with a tablespoon. 



132 MENU DISHES 

Compote of Quails and Farced Olives — C6mpote de Cailles aux 

Olives Farcies 

Bone, farce, and cook the quails; let them get cold. Cut them in 
halves and make hot in a good Espagnole sauce. Dish on a border 
with a croiite of fried bread between the halves. Stone and stuff the 
olives with a well-flavoured quenelle forcemeat. Put them in the sauce 
and boil a minute or two, which will add to the flavouring. Put them in 
the centre of the entree. 

Turban of Quails — Cailles en Turban 

Proceed in the same way as for turban of larks and pigeons, but use the 
halves of a quail, boned, stuffed, and cooked. 

Quail Cutlets, Perigord — C6telettes de Cailles a la Perigord 

Bone the quails, lay them out flat, and cut in halves right down the 
breast. Lay them in a saute pan in a little stock and cook until nearly 
done. Press them between two dishes until cold. Make a dome of quenelle 
on each, egg them, and sprinkle well with chopped truffle. Lay them again 
in the stock, cover with buttered paper, and finish in the oven. Dish on 
a border, with a fried croute between the halves, a decorated croustade in 
the centre, and a rich Perigord sauce poured round. 

Quail Cutlets, Villeroi — C6telettes de Cailles k la Villeroi 

Prepare the cutlets as above. When cold, dip them in some German 
sauce, made to set with yolks of eggs and a little gelatine. Shape them, 
and egg and crumb them twice; fry in deep fat. Put some dressed green 
peas, asparagus, or a macedoine of vegetables in the centre of the entree 
when dished, and pour a white sauce, flavoured with the bones and a little 
sherry, round. 

Quail Cutlets, Financiere — C6telettes de Cailles a la Financiere 

Prepare the cutlets as for a la Villeroi. Dish on a border, put a 
financiere ragout in the centre, and pour a rich Espagnole sauce flavoured 
with sherry round. The bones should always be used to flavour these 
sauces. 

Farced Quails, Eothschild — Cailles Farcies a la Rothschild 

Bone, and stuff the quail with quenelle, in which put some rather large 
pieces of foie gras and a few pieces of truffles. Cook them, and get them 
cold; cut in half and lay them in a saute pan with a little stock, make 
them hot in the oven, and glaze them nicely. Dish on a border with thin 
croutes of fried bread between the pieces. Put a garnish of mushrooms, 
tongue, truffle, and small quenelles in the centre, and pour round them a 
rich Espagnole sauce. 



ENTEEfiS OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 133 

Fillets of Hare, Neapolitan — Filets de Lievre a la Napolitaine 

The two fillets should be cut right down the back of the hare, and after 
skinning they should be cut into six or eight cutlets, according to the 
size of the fillets. Pat them out and lard with strips of fat bacon. Lay 
them in a marinade of oil, vinegar, onion, thyme, parsley, pepper, and salt 
for three or four hours; then braise and glaze them. Dish on a border. Fill 
the centre with a garnish of macaroni, tongue, mushroom, and truffle which 
has been dressed with Parmesan cheese and seasoned. Make a brown 
sauce flavoured with some of the bone, flavour further with a spoonful of 
currant jelly and port wine, and pour all over and round the fillets. 

Fillets of Hare, St. Hubert — Filets de Lievre a la St. Hubert 

Prepare the fillets as above. Dish on a border with thin croiites of 
fried bread between the pieces. Fill the centre with some dressed spinach. 
Make a brown sauce with some of the hare bones, and pour round. 

Hare Cutlets, Reform — C6telettes de Lievre a la Reforme 

The fillets should be small and beaten out flat. Saute them, and press 
until cold between two dishes. Make a rich brown sauce, flavour with 
some of the bones, and add a yolk or two of egg and gelatine to make 
it set. Turn the cutlets into shape and dip each in this sauce before it 
gets cold. Lay them aside to set, then dip twice in egg and crumb, and 
fry in deep fat. Dish on a border, and put a small piece of a rib bone 
(previously cooked) in each. Garnish with a cutlet frill. In the centre 
put a garnish of tongue, gherkin, truffle, and steamed white of egg, all 
cut into shreds like Julienne vegetables. A few shredded mushrooms can 
be added. The sauce is made from the bones, and flavoured with a small 
spoonful of currant jelly, port wine, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
Pour round the base. 

Turban of Hare and Mushrooms — Turban de Lievre aux Champignons 

Make a light quenelle farce with the leg portion of a hare. Fill an 
ordinary plain border mould with this preparation and steam it. Prepare 
the fillets as above, and when it is time to dish, turn out the border on 
to the entree dish, and lay the fillets, nicely glazed, all round the top of 
this border. Garnish the entrde with fresh button mushrooms, and pour 
a well-flavoured brown sauce all over. 

Petits Pains de Lievre a l'Essence 

Partly cook enough hare for the purpose; remove all bone and gristle, 
pound it to a complete pulp, and pass through a wire sieve. Add 
half the same quantity of bread crumbs, sea.soning, and sufficient eggs to 
make it all set firmly but delicately. Decorate some tiny moulds with 
truffles and steamed whites of eggs, dust tliem with flour and fill with 



134 MENU DISHES 

the preparation. If a little diluted game glaze can be added to the mix- 
ture it will make a great improvement. Steam them so as to be cooked 
just in time to serve. Turn on to the dish, and pour a rich brown game 
sauce flavoured with port wine or champagne all over. 

Small Cases of Game — Petites Croustades de Gibier 

Line some small timbale moulds with a thin short paste, in which put a 
yolk or two of egg. Fill them with dry bread crumbs, flour, or bran, and 
bake them. Turn them out, clean them, and brush over with yolk of egg, 
and bake again. Fill these with a pui-ee of hare or any other game, highly 
seasoned and made as rich as possible. Put a patty top (made of pufl" 
paste) on each, and dish on a napkin. Garnish with fried parsley. These 
cases can be filled with a variety of ordinary patty meats and purees, and 
named accordingly'-. 

Salmis of Partridge and Truffles — Salmis de Perdreaux aux Truffes 

Half-roast a partridge and let it get cold. Cut it into neat joints and 
pieces, and with the trimmings prepare a rich and not too thick brown 
sauce. Put the pieces of partridge in this, and slowly simmer until 
thoroughly cooked. Add sherry and seasoning to taste, and put in suffi- 
cient sliced truffles. Dish in a mound, pour the sauce all over, and garnish 
with some fried fancy-shaped croutes of bread or baked short paste. 
Salmis of pheasant, wild duck, or any other game is prepared in the same 
way. 

Chartreuse of Partridge and Cabbage — Perdreaux et Choux en 

Chartreuse 

Truss the partridges in the ordinary way. Put in a stew-pan with a 
w^ell-washed heart of a savoy cabbage, a carrot, a piece of bacon, pepper, 
salt, and sufficient stock to cook all in. Cover tightly, and thoroughly 
braise until the birds are tender. Take them out to get cold, strain the 
liquor away from the cabbage, &c., and proceed as follows. Decorate a 
large plain mould with cooked vegetables of different colours. Then line 
the mould with a light, firm quenelle meat made of veal. Then place over 
this a layer of cabbage that has been thoroughly chopped and got as dry 
as possible. Cut up the best parts of the partridges into neat pieces, as 
free from bone as possible. Add the bacon, also cut, and a little thick 
brown sauce. Fill the mould up wntli this mixture, cover with a little 
more farce, and steam like a pudding for an hour or longer according to 
size. Turn on to the dish, but do not remove the mould for a minute or 
two. Pour a nice game sauce all over. 

Fillets of Wild Duck, Bigarade — Filets de Canards Sauvages 

A LA Bigarade 

Fillet the wild duck, and cut each fillet according to size into two or 
three pieces. Lay them in a marinade of oil, vinegar, thyme, parsley, 



MEAT ENTREES 135 

pepper, and salt for an hour or two. Drain them, and saute them in 
clarified butter. Dish on a border with a croute of fried bread between 
each two pieces. Make a brown sauce with the carcasses. Add the juice 
of one orange and a little lemon. Boil some of the orange peel, have it 
perfectly free from pith, and cut into very thin shreds; throw these into 
the sauce. Put a decorated croustade in the centre of the entree, and pour 
the sauce round. 



CHAPTER XXXI 

MEAT ENTRIES 

Smoked Tongue— Filets de Langue Fumes 

Soak in cold water a smoked ox tongue for twenty-four hours. Put 
to boil in cold water and cook gently until tender, which should take about 
four hours. Lift out, dip in cold water, and skin; put aside to cool. Cut 
and trim into pieces ^ in. thick and lay in a saute pan; cover with con- 
somme; make hot gently in an oven, and dish on a border of spinach or 
potato, with a garnish of finely shredded French beans in centre. Pour a 
Neapolitan sauce round. 

Ox Palates — Palais de Bceuf a la d'Uxelles 

Proceed as for palais de boeuf aux tomates farcies, but do not stuff 
them. Lay the palates on a dish; press and cool; cut into oval-shaped 
pieces. Spread a little d'Uxelles sauce on a dish, lay a palate on, put 
another layer on top. When cold, shape, eg^ and breadcrumb, and fry 
brown. Dish on potato with a garnish of fried parsley. Pour d'Uxelles 
sauce round and serve. 

Ox Palates with Stuffed Tomatoes — Palais de B(eufs aux 
Tomates Farcies 

Wash and put on to boil in cold water six ox palates. Continue boiling 
for five minutes; then remove and scrape the skin away with the point of 
a knife. Wash well again and put to boil in stock with an onion, a carrot, 
a turnip, some parsley, two bay leaves, a blade of mace, and a little tomato 
puree. Simmer gently until tender, which will take some hours; then lift 
out, and when just cool enough to handle, lay on the table, overlapping each 
other. Trim and spread with a farce of veal mixed with chopped pistachio 
nuts. Roll up and tie in a cloth in the same way as galantine, and put 
back in boiling stock and cook for half an hour. Lift out and re-roll 
up tight, perfectly round, and put aside to cool. Then cut into slices i in. 
thick, and warm very gently in the oven. Dish on a potato border and 
irarnish with forced tomatoes. Pour over it a sauce financi^re. 



136 MENU DISHES 

Noisettes of Lamb with Asparagus Points — Noisettes d'Agneau aux 

POINTES D'AsPEUGES 

Remove (by passing the knife along the backbone) the meat from a 
loin of lamb. Lay flat on a table and cut into slices i in. thick ; trim them, 
and curl them round, the meat part in centre. Either tie with a string, or 
pass a thin skewer through to keep them in shape. Lightly set off in a 
saute pan over a sharp fire, and put in the oven to braise until quite tender. 
In the meantime cook a bundle of asparagus; when done, cut the tops into 
one-inch lengths. Lift out the noisettes, lightly pass the glaze brush over 
them, take off" the string or skewer, and dish on a potato border. Put the 
asparagus points in centre, and pour round the sauce made from the braise. 

Mutton Cutlets, Victoria — Cotelettes de Mouton a la Victoria 

The cutlets must be partly cooked, and then pressed. When cold, 
spread a salpicon of mushrooms, truffle, tongue, and a little white sauce 
on each side of the cutlet. Dip in egg and bread crumbs, shape them 
nicely, and fry in a deep pan of hot fat to a light brown. Dish on a 
border of mashed potatoes. Put a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, cocks' 
combs, and quenelles in the centre, and pour a rich Espagnole sauce round. 

Mutton Cutlets, Alexandra — Cotelettes a l'Alexandra 

Lard the lean part of the cutlet with strips of fat bacon, braise them 
in a rich gravy, and glaze them nicely. These and similar cutlets should 
be dished upside down on a border of mashed potato; so the bone should 
be cut very short. Put a nicely dressed macedoine of fresh vegetables in 
the centre, and pour a well-flavoured Soubise sauce round. 

Mutton Cutlets, Chevreuille — C6telettes a la Chevreuille 

Lard the cutlets well as above, and lay them in a marinade of oil, 
vinegar, onion, thyme, parsley, pepper, and salt for three hours, or even 
four. Braise them in a good strong gravy, and glaze them nicely. Dish 
on a border of potato. Fill the centre with a garnish of button onions 
(nicely braised), mushrooms, truffles, and small quenelles. The sauce is 
made by reducing the liquor and removing all fat, mixing in some 
Espagnole sauce, and flavouring with port wine and a spoonful of red- 
currant jelly. 

Mutton Cutlets, Pompadour — Cotelettes a la Pompadour 

Lard some thick mutton cutlets with two or three pieces of fat bacon 
through the eye. Braise them and press. When cold, trim to the usual 
size, and cover them with a good Soubise sauce that has had yolk of egg 
added to make it set. When cold, dip in egg and crumbs, shape them 
nicely, and fry in deep hot fat. Dish on a border of potato. Garnish 
with dressed peas in the centre and German sauce round. 



MEAT ENTREES 



137 



Mu'iTON Cutlets, Descartes— CdiELEXTES 1 la Descartes 

Partly cook and press the cutlets. Cut a small piece out of the eye 
with a round cutter; fill this up with a little salpicon; dip in egg and 
bread crumbs, shape, and fry in deep fat. Garnish with ragout made with 
the eye that has been cut out, mushrooms, and braised chestnuts. Pour 
round the whole a rich Espagnole sauce flavoured with sherry. 

Mutton Cutlets, Eugenie — C6telettes a l'Eugi^nie 

The cutlets must first be partly cooked, then pressed. Trim them and 
spread a light quenelle farce over one side, and decorate them with cooked 




Fig. 136. -Mutton Cutlets 

vegetables. Lay them out in a saute pan with a little strong gravy; cover 
with buttered paper, and put into the oven to finish cooking. Dish them on 
a border of potato, fill the centre with a pur^e of peas, and pour some demi- 
glaze round. Lamb cutlets may be dressed in all the forms given for mutton. 

Cutlets of Lamb, Maintenon — C6telettes d'Agneau A la Maintenon 

Take the best end of a neck of lamb, chine it, and cut into cutlets (two 
bones to each). Take the bones out with the point of a knife, flatten with 
the cutlet bat, and trim. Next split the meat to the bone, and spread a 
layer of mushroom puree inside; fasten together, and grill. Glaze and dish 
on a border of potato. Pour some d'Uxelles sauce over, and serve with a 
garnish of button mushrooms. 



Grenadin of Veal with Vegetables- 
Jardiniere 



-Grenadins de Veau a la 



Lard some thick cutlets cut from the leg with strips of fat bacon. 

Braize them in some wliite stock, and glaze them lightly. Dish on a 
Vol. II. 78 



138 MENU DISHES 

border of potato. Put a macedoine of fresh vegetables in the centre, and 
some rich bt^chamel sauce round. 

Veal Kernels 

Take eight veal kernels and lay in cold water for an hour; then boil 
for three minutes. Throw into cold water and drain; press, and set to cool. 
Cut and place in a stewpan a carrot, a leek, an onion, a turnip, some 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, a few peppercorns, and a little ham fat; cover, 
and sweat for ten minutes. Trim and lay the kernels on them; cover 
again, aiid continue braising for another ten minutes. Pour sufficient 
good stock to just cover them, and cook till tender; remove, strain, and 
skim the liquor, put back into the stewpan, and reduce to a demi-glaze. 
Then put the kernels in, and toss in the glaze. Dish round a puree of 
vegetables, such as spinach, artichoke, green peas, &c. Garnish with fried 
croutons of bread, and pour demi-glaze over. 

Tendons of Veal 

Take out the tendon from the breast of veal. Soak in cold water for 
an hour, and set to cook as for kernels; they will take about three hours. 
When done, lift out, press, and put to cool. Cut into pieces and make 
them thoroughly hot in the reduced liquor. Dish as for kernels, and pour 
demi-glaze over. 

Beef Olives, Lucullus — Beef Ollas a la Lucullus 

Beat out a thin slice of beef steak about 4 in. long by 2| in. wide. 
Season with pepper and salt, and spread a very thin layer of sausage 
meat over. Put a thick piece of foie gras right across, and a slice or two 
of truffle. Roll all up, and wrap in a piece of oiled paper. Cook these in 
stock for an hour, and leave until cold. Trim them; put back in stock to 
make hot again. Serve with a rich Perigueux sauce made with Espagnole 
and chopped truffles, and flavoured with sherry. 

Fillets of Beef, Neapolitan — Filets de Bceuf a la Napolitaine 

Lard some small thick fillets of beef with strips of fat bacon; braise 
them and glaze them nicely. Dish on a border of potato. Fill the centre 
with a ragoiit of macaroni, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles flavoured with 
Parmesan cheese, and make the sauce with the liquor, some Espagnole, a 
little rich currant jelly, and port wine. 

Fillets of Beef, Strasburg — Filets de Bceuf a la Strasbourg 

Saute the fillets in clarified butter, glaze them, and on each lay a slice 
of foie gras. Dish on a border of potato. Fill the centre with some very 
finely cut straw and fried potatoes, and pour a rich brown gravy round 
flavoured with chopped olives. 



MEAT ENTREES 



139 




Fig. 137.— Filet de Boeuf 



Steak 1 la Bordelaise 

From between two rib bones of beef cut a good thick steak. Pour in 
a dish a little oil; add salt and pepper; lay in steak for ten minutes, turn- 
ing over once; then grill (keeping on the underdone side). In the meantime, 
remove some marrow from a marrow^ bone; blanch and slice it, and put on 
steak; glaze and put in the oven for three minutes. Place on an entree 
dish, and pour some Bordelaise sauce round. 

Steak a la MaItre d'H6tel 

Cut across a fillet of beef a steak 1^ in. thick. Rub a little oil, pepper, 
and salt on, and grill. Glaze and place some maitre d'hotel butter on top. 
Put some fried-potato fingers round, and serve. 

Steak A la Bearnaise 

Prepare same as maitre d'hotel. Pour over some Bearnaise sauce, and 
garnish with finely cut straw potatoes. 

Steak A la Chateaubriand 

This should be cut thicker than the other fillet steaks. Prepare in the 
same way, with Chateaubriand sauce poured over, and garnish with potatoes 
cut into olive shapes. 

Steak and Oyster, sometimes called Carpet Bag 

Cut a large rump steak, pouch shape, split at one end inwards, push 
in six oysters, bearded, sew up, and grill. Pour over reduced oyster liquor 
in brown sauce, a little lemon juice, and chopped parsley. 



140 MENU DISHES 

TOURNEDOS OF BeEF 

These are cut from the fillet of beef in round shapes about the size of 
a five-shilling piece and 1 in. thick. Rub a clove of garlic on a dish, pour 
a little oil in, add pepper and salt. Just mix, and lay the tournedos in for 
three hours, turning over several times. Put a little fresh oil in the saute 
pan, and fry rather brisk. Drain, dish, and pour either plain reduced 
gravy or any sauce likely to go with it, naming them after the sauce used, 
and garnish v\?ith potato or vegetable as required. 

Scallop of Beef with Turnip — Escalope de Bceuf A la Nivernaise 

Cut eight scalloped pieces from the fillet of beef about three quarters of 
an inch thick; also small pieces of the fat from the fillet. Lay in oil, &c., 
for half an hour, and cook quickly over a fire in a saute pan. Pour off 
the grease, and put in a gill of Espagnole sauce and a gill of consomme. 
Simmer for ten minutes. Glaze and dish on a potato border, with a 
garnish of small balls of turnip (cut with a vegetable scoop) in centre. 
Pour sauce round. 

Scallop of Beef, American — Escalope de Bceuf a l'Americaine 

Prepare as for Nivernaise. Season with tomato sauce and a garnish of 
stufi'ed tomatoes and straw potatoes. 

Scallop of Beef, St. James — Escalope de Bceuf a la St. Jacques 

Prepare as for Nivernaise. When cooked, put a layer of foie gras on 
each, and put in the oven for three minutes. Garnish with shredded mush- 
rooms and halves of cherries simmered in white wine for five minutes. 
Pour sauce over, and serve. 

Fillets of Beef, Sydney^Filets de Bceuf a la Sydney 

Prepare the fillets as for Napolitaine. Dish and garnish with finel}^ cut 
French beans. Pour round some sauce piquante, with some grated horse- 
radish and red-currant jelly added. 

Fillets of Beef, Seville — Filets de Bceuf a la Seville 

Prepare as for Nivernaise. After draining the grease from them add 
half a pint of brown sauce and a gill of red wine. Reduce for ten minutes. 
Glaze the fillets and dish them lengthways down the centre of the dish. 
Arrange an orange salad on each side of them. Skim the sauce and serve 
in a boat. 

Vienna Steaks 

These are rump steaks passed through the mincing machine, with a little 
chopped parsley, shallot, pepper, and salt added. They are shaped round, 
floured, and fried in a saute pan, and served with brown gravy. 



FOUR NOTABLE BAKERS 

William H. Palmer, born at Swansea in 1868, started business 
as a baker in 1894, and has equipped his bakery with the most 
up-to-date machinery. He was President of the South Wales 
Federation of Bakers' Associations in 1907, and he has been 
appointed first Chairman of the Bread and Flour Sale Note 
Clause Board of Reference. 

Joseph Merritt was born in 1873 at Cardiff, where he has 
now a successful baking and confectionery business. He was 
formerly Hon. Secretary of the South Wales Federation, and in 
1906 he was President of the Cardiff Association. 

Benj.\min T. Bell was born in 1848 at Rotherham, where 
his father was in business as a baker. He began on his own 
account there in 1870, but removed to Sheffield in 1884, where 
he erected one of the best-equipped bakeries in Yorkshire. He 
retired in favour of his son in 1904. Mr. Bell was formerly an 
enthusiastic cricketer, with a great reputation as a bowler. 

William H. Curtis, born at Birmingham in 1861, was educated 
at Bristol, and at the age of fifteen began his apprenticeship in 
his fathers bakehouse. He succeeded to the business on his 
father's death in 1895. He was first President of the Bristol 
Master Bakers' and Millers' Association, and has been President 
of the South Wales Federation. He is a member of the Executive 
of the National Association, of which he has been a Vice-President. 
Mr. Curtis has served on various public bodies, and takes an 
active part in church work. 



MEAT ENTREES 141 

FiLLEis OF Beef (cold) — Chaudfroid de Filets de Bceuf a la Lucullus 

Prepare and cook as for a la Napolitaine. Allow to get cold with a dish 
on top to press them. Trim smooth, put a thin layer of foie gras (passed 
through a sieve) on each, and mask over with brown chaudfroid sauce. 
Decorate with truffle and pistachio. Dish on salad and garnish with 
stewed cucumber and tomato. 

Fillets of Beef, Gratin — Filets de Bceuf au Gratin 

Saute some small, thick fillets of beef in some clarified butter. Dish 
on a border of potato, and pour over reduced and rather thick Italian 
sauce, well flavoured with sherry. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and a little 
oiled butter. Put in the hot closet to warm up, and pass a hot salamander 
over to gratinate the bread just before serving. 

Cutlet of Beef, Rome— COTELErrES de Bceuf k la Rome 

Prepare some beef farce; try a little by steaming it; have it firm but 
light. Butter the number of cutlet moulds required and fill in with the 
farce. Steam ver}' gently till cooked, turn out and dish on pur^e of arti- 
choke. Garnish with a Milanaise garnish. Pour tomato sauce over, and 
stick a cutlet spike in each. 

Minced Beef 

Cut 1 lb. of any remains of cold roast beef into small squares. Chop a 
shallot very fine and place in a stewpan with 1 oz. butter. Simmer gently 
till light brown, throw in the beef and moisten with half a pint of brown 
sauce and a gill of stock. Season with pepper and salt; simmer for 30 
minutes; add a little chopped parsley, and dish. Garnish with pieces of 
toast cut into triangle shapes. 

Fillets of Beef, Orient — Filets de Bceuf a l'Orient 

Braise some very small fillets of beef. Glaze and dish round a border of 
rice, as for curry. Put a garnish of turned olives and sliced gherkins 
mixed with chutney liquor in centre. Pour a good curry sauce round. 

Filets de Porc A la Crapaudine 

Remove the fillets from underneath a loin of pork, cut into slices I in. 

thick, trim, flour, egg and crumb, cook in saute pan with clarified butter. 

Braise some very small onions and mix with button mushrooms. Dish the 

fillets on puree of cabbage, put garnish in centre, and pour Sauce Robert 

round. 

Foie Gras Skvkjnk 

Prepare some rings of puff paste ^ in. high and the size of a five- 
shilling piece, leaving a border ^ in. round. Fill the centres with foie gras, 
decorate with chervil, and brush well with cold aspic. Dish on finely 
shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with tomato salad. 



142 



MENU DISHES 



COTELETTES D'AgNEAU A LA MeNTHE 

Cut as many lamb cutlets as required. Place in a saute pan with a 
little clarified butter. Brown quickly over the fire, season, and put into 
a stewpan containing some good strong stock with vegetable and tomato 
puree added. Simmer gently till the cutlets are quite tender; lift out and 
press. When cold, trim and brush over several times with a dressing pre- 
pared as follows. To one tablespoonful of meat glaze add two teaspoonfuls 
of aspic jelly and one teaspoonful of chopped mint. When almost about 
to set, brush over the cutlet, place a cutlet frill on each bone and dish on 
salad, with green peas in centre. Decorate round with aspic jelly. 



CHAPTER XXXII 



POULTEY, MEAT, AND GAME PIES, ETC. 



Pigeon Pie 

Take two pigeons (drawn), cut the points of the wings and legs oflT, 
then slice each pigeon down in three, remove the liver, and take away 

the back. Just slit the breast 

piece down, and take out the 
bone; chop the livers very fine 
with a little parsley and a few 
mushrooms, and spread on each 
piece of pigeon. Cut f lb. rump 
steak into slices; beat them and 
put a layer in the bottom of the 
dish, then a layer of pigeon, and 
so on, seasoning with pepper 
and salt. Add a gill of stock; cut two hard-boiled eggs into four parts and 
lay round; cover with puff' paste, and cook in a moderate oven for one 
hour and three-quarters. Fill the pie up with gravy made from the heads, 
bones, and stock. Stick the feet out of the top of paste. 




Fig. 138.— Mould for Raised Pigeon Pie 



Veal-and-Ham Pie 

Take 1 lb. veal cutlet and cut into good-sized pieces. Beat out with 
a cutlet bat, season with pepper and salt, and spread a layer of sausage 
meat over it. Cut very thin as many slices of gammon as there are of 
veal, and roll them up. Put a little veal stock in the bottom of the 
dish, cut each roll in half, and stand in. Cut two hard-boiled eggs into 
eight pieces. Sprinkle parsley all over, and cover with puflf paste. Bake 
for one hour and a half in a moderate oven. Fill up with gravy when 
done. 



POULTRY, MEAT, AND GAME PIES 



143 



Rump-Steak Pie 

Cut the steak into slices, beat out, season, and spread on it a layer 
of sausage meat. Roll up; cut and finish as for veal-and-ham pie. 

Steak-and-Oyster Pie 

Cut Ih lb. rump steak into slices, beat out thin, put a layer into a 
dish, season with pepper and salt, then add a layer of oysters, having 
taken the beards off, and repeat till the dish is full, using 2 doz. oysters. 
Melt a gill of espagnole sauce; reduce the oyster liquor, and add to the 
sauce with a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup; then pour over. Cover 
with putt" paste and bake for one hour and a half. 




Fig. 139.— Chickenand-Haiu Kaised Pie 



Chickhx-and-Ham Pie 

Cut a young chicken into 
eight pieces, chop the livers up 
with a little parsley, ham, and 
mushroom. Spread some of 
this on each piece of chicken. 
Put a few slices of ham in the 
bottom of the dish with a little 
chicken stock, then a layer of 
chicken, season, and so on till 
full. Add two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped up; sprinkle over with 

chopped parsley, cover with puff paste, and bake for one hour and three- 
quarters. Fill up with chicken stock, well seasoned. 

Shepherd's Pie 

Chop fine any remains of cold meat; reduce in a little brown sauce 
and stock, with finely shredded shallot, for fifteen minutes; season, and 
pour into a pie-dish. Mash some 
boiled potatoes, add the yolk of 
an (igg to it, season, and either 
spread on with a knife, or pipe 
with a forcing-bag and star 
tube. Bake in the oven till 
of a nice colour. 

Partridge Pie 



Proceed as for pigeon pie, 
adding a little pounded mace 
to the seasoning. 




Fig. 140.- Rataed Pie Mould 



144 MENU DISHES 



Venison Pie 



Cut the meat into slices and beat out. Mix together a little chopped 
parsley, a very little grated lemon rind, pepper, and salt. Put the meat 
in layers in a dish, seasoning with the mixture. Reduce some espagnole 
sauce with port wine and red-currant jelly added, and pour over the veni- 
son. Spread over it some chopped mushroom and truffle, cover with puff 
paste, and bake. This requires half an hour longer than steak pies. 

Hare Pie 

Cut the hare into fair-sized pieces; chop off" the fine rib bones, head, 
and neck; pound the liver in the mortar, add the blood to it and a 
little chopped parsley and thyme, also pepper and salt. Put a layer of 
this in the bottom of a disli; roll round each piece of hare a thin 
piece of streaky bacon; then lay on the liver; spread any liver left 
over the top. Cut up a carrot, an onion, and a turnip, and place in a 
stewpan with a pat of butter; fry for a few minutes. Chop up the head, 
neck, &c., and add to it; put the lid on and simmer for fifteen minutes; 
moisten with a pint of stock and a gill of espagnole sauce. Simmer for 
half an hour, strain, skim, and pour into a dish; cover with paste and bake 
for two hours in a moderate oven. 

Eabbit Pie 

Cut the rabbit into ten pieces and wash well in cold water. Place 
in a dish with slices of thin-cut bacon; season with pepper and salt, 
chopped parsley, and thyme. Reduce the heads and trimmings in stock; 
season, and put a little in the dish; cover with paste and bake for one 
hour and a half. Then fill up with gravy. 

Steak-and-Kidney Pie 

Prepare as for steak pie, slicing the kidney and laying it in with the 
steak. 

Jugged Hare 

Chop the hare into good-sized pieces, taking care of the blood and 
liver. Slice a carrot, a turnip, an onion, and a leek; put into a stewpan 
with some ham trimmings and a pat of butter. Add a little parsley, 
thyme, black pepper, a blade of mace, and three cloves. Simmer for a 
few^ minutes, then put the pieces of hare in, cover, and simmer for twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add two quarts of good stock and 
simmer till tender. Skim and strain. Put the liquor back in the stew- 
pan and thicken with brown roux. Add a jar of red-currant jelly and 
half a pint of port wine; simmer for ten minutes, removing any grease. 
Place the hare in a clean stewpan; season the sauce and pour over. 
Pound the liver in the mortar; moisten with the blood; add a few bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley and thyme; season with pepper and salt; 



POULTRY, MEAT, AND GAME PIES 145 

dust a little .flour on the table and roll into balls; throw them into 
boiling stock and simmer for five minutes; then add to hare. 

Haricot Mutton 

Cut a neck of mutton into cutlets, trim off most of the fat, heat a 
little clarified butter in a saute pan, lay the cutlets in and brown on 
both sides. Lift out and put into a stewpan containing a thin brown 
sauce with a little tomato puree added. Place in the saute pan about 
a dozen very small peeled onions and shake over the fire until quite 
brown. Put them in with the mutton and continue simmering. Cut 
some carrots and turnips into half-moon-shaped pieces, toss in a little 
butter over the fire for a few minutes, and place these with a small 
bunch of parsley with mutton, When cooked, take out and dish the 
mutton and vegetable, remove the parsley, skim and reduce the liquor 
and pour all over. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over and serve. 

Kidneys with Bacon 

Skin six fine sheep kidneys, split them lengthways, but do not separate 
them; remove the white part, and push a thin skewer through them; pour 
a little oil, with pepper and salt mixed in, on a disli; turn the kidneys 
over in this; grill them for about three minutes on each side over a 
good fire. Cut six round pieces of toast, lay a piece of bacon on each, 
and lay the kidneys on top. Pour a little melted butter over the kidneys 
before serving. 

Stewed Pigeons 

Truss the pigeons as for roasting. Lay in a stewpan a few slices of 
bacon, a carrot, an onion, a little parsley, and a pat of butter. Place 
the pigeons on this, cover and simmer for ten minutes. Moisten with 
brown sauce and stock, half of each; cover and simmer till the pigeons 
are cooked, then lift out, strain, skim and reduce liquor. Dish the pigeons 
on croiites of fried bread (if preferred), garnish with a macedoine of 
vegetables, and pour sauce over. 

Raised Pheasant Pie — Pate de Faisan 

Line a raised pie mould with some paste made for raised pies. Bone 
a pheasant and split down the back; lay in a forcemeat as for galantine; 
season, roll up, and cut into good-sized pieces and lay in case. Between 
the layers spread some sliced mushroom and trufiie. When the pie is 
full, cover with a piece of buttered paper and a layer of paste, and cook 
in a moderate oven for two and a half hours. If the wise is a thin 
one, some paper should be tied round to s^ive the crust from getting too 
much colour. While the pie is cooking, prepare the gravy as follows. 
Chop up the bones from the pheasant; cover with good stock; add an 
onion, carrot, turnip, some peppercorns, and parsley; simmer gently until 
of a good flavour. Then strain and clarify with the white of an egg] 

Vol. it. 79 



146 



MENU DISHES 



strain through a soup cloth; season, and add a little sherry. Put a little 
of this gravy in a mould, and stand on ice to make sure that it will 
set. Remove the top of the pie and fill up with gravy; continue doing 
so until the meat is quite covered; then leave to set. Cut round the 
top edge with a sharp knife and remove the case. Cut a lemon length- 
ways and slice very thin; lay the pieces of lemon round the edge of 
the pie, overlapping each other. Chop the remainder of the gravy or 
aspic jelly and pile up in the centre. Other game, such as partridge, 
grouse, &c., may be treated in the same way. 

Paste for Raised Pies 

To 1 lb. of sifted flour rub in 6 oz. of butter. Make a well in the 
centre and place in two egg yolks, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Add water and mix to produce a rather firm but smooth 
dough. Let it stand for about ten minutes; then roll out and fold over 
in the shape of a pouch. The paste should then be about I in. thick. 
Press into a case, using a piece of paste to press well into the mould. Fold 
well over the top edge of the mould and fill in. 

Raised Pies with Hot-water Paste 

Another way of making raised pies is with hot-water paste, but in 
this case the crust is uneatable. Boil some water with a little butter 
(about 1 oz. to the quart); make a bay in the centre of the flour and 
pour the water in. Mix while hot to a firm dough. Knead quite 
smooth, or, if convenient, pass through a biscuit roller until of a velvety 
appearance. Cut a strip of the length required and stick the two ends 
together with egg', fasten round a piece cut out for the bottom, and pinch 
together with the pastry nippers. Mark the top edge in the same way; 
then decorate round with leaves, flowers, fruit, birds, &c., made in moulds 
with the paste, and keep until dry. Fill this shell in with cooked game; 
brush over the paste with white of egg, and proceed in the same way 
as for pheasant pie. These pie cases can be prepared and kept some time 
before using. When they come from the oven they should be brushed 
over with reduced aspic jelly until quite shiny. 

Galantine of Veal 

Take a breast of veal; bone it and lay it out on the table, skin side 
down, and equally divide the meat. Season with pepper and salt, and 
spread a layer of forcemeat over, with a little foie gras mixed in; then 
cut some tongue into strips, some fat bacon, and steamed yolk of egg, 
and la}'' these strips in rows, and in between spread some pistachio, 
sliced trufile, and mushroom. Put another layer of forcemeat all over 
this; roll up and tie tightly in a cloth; cook in well-flavoured stock; 
then lift out. When cool, untie and waah the cloth; roll up tight again 
and tie very tight; put a dish or board with weight on to press, and 



JOINTS 147 

leave to get quite cold; then take out of the cloth, trim the ends, and 
brush on or dip in glaze. Decorate with aspic jelly, cut in circles, 
diamonds, &c. 

Galantine of Chicken 

Bone a chicken and split down the back; divide the meat evenly, 
and proceed as for galantine of veal. If preferred, this galantine can 
be masked over with bechamel, tomato, or brown chaudfroid sauces 
instead of glaze, or it may be set in aspic. 

Pressed Beef 

Remove the bones from a good plump brisket: rub well with salt; 
lay in a pan for two days, rubbing the salt well in occasionally. Then 
place in pickle for eight days. When sufficiently pickled lay on a drainer 
and place in boiling water with some spice (a few peppercorns, whole 
spice, clove, mace, bay leaves, and a stick of cinnamon crushed in a 
mortar) tied in a piece of cloth. Simmer gently until thoroughly tender; 
then lift out and press in a frame made from strong wood, or in an iron 
one. Leave until the following morning; then turn out and cut into 
pieces of the size required. Glaze, and decorate with aspic jelly. 

Pickle for Brisket of Beef 

Boil 2 gal. of water and pour on to 8 lb. of salt, A lb. brown sugar, 
and ^ lb. saltpetre. When cold, throw in a few bruised cloves, mace, 
bay leaves, thyme, and a stick of cinnamon. Stir well; it is now ready 
for use. Turn the brisket over every day, and wash well before cooking. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

JOINTS 

Roast Sirloin of Beef— Aloyau de Bosuf R6ti 

Trim the sirloin and skewer the flap part underneath. If roasting, 
hang close to the fire for the first twenty minutes; then place farther 
away. Baste well at intervals, and a little while before finishing dust 
over with salt. Make the gravy from the pan, after removing all fat, 
by pouring some boiling stock in season. Pour round the meat. Scraped 
horseradish or horseradish sauce is an excellent addition. Allow for 
cooking at the rate of two hours for 7 lb. 

Braised Sirloin— Aloyau de Bceuf Braisi^ 

Remove the bones from a 7-lb piece of sirloin; roll it quite round, 
fastening the flap round with a skewer, and bind round with a piece of 
tape. Lard it, and place in a braising pan on a braise of vegetable, a 



148 MENU DISHES 

few whole spice, peppercorns, cloves, bay leaves, and a clove of garlic. 
Simmer on a good tire for ten minutes; add some stock and red wine; 
place in the oven, covered tightly, and cook gently for two hours. 
Remove the beef; then strain and reduce the liquor, and add to it some 
brown sauce. Stand the beef in the oven to keep hot; glaze over, dish, 
and pour sauce over. The name of the dish depends on the garnish used; 
thus with a mixed vegetable garnish the name is a la jardiniere. 

Roast Fillet of Beef — Filet de Bceuf R6ti 

Take about 6 lb. of fillet of beef. Trim, and lard it well with bacon 
fat. Pour some salad oil in a dish; add a little pepper and salt; lay 
the fillet in this for two hours, turning over occasionally. Then roast 
before a good fire or in the oven till done, basting well. If cooked in the 
oven cover with beef fat, and when nearly done take fat off and brown. 
Make a good gravy and pour round. It will take about one hour and a 
quarter to cook. 

Roast Fillet of Beef, Refokm — Filet of Bceuf R6ti 1 la Reforme 

Prepare and lard the fillet, cover with ham fat, and bake in an oven; 
baste well meanwhile. Dish on a potato crustard of mashed potatoes 
shaped like the fillet and browned in the oven; put a Reform garnish on 
each side and pour Reform sauce over. 

Braised Fillet of Beef — Filet de Bceuf Braise 

Cut, trim, and lard the fillet, and cook in the same way as braised 
sirloin of beef. When done, glaze, and reduce the liquor. Add to it 
some espagnole sauce. Allow one hour for braising a 4-lb. fillet. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, Milanese — Filet de Bceuf Braise a la 

Milanaise 

Prepare and cook the fillet as above; reduce the liquor with some 
espagnole sauce; season it, and mix with it some cooked spaghetti 
macaroni. Cut into 2-in. pieces some shredded mushrooms, tongue, and 
trufiie; add some grated Parmesan cheese to this, and stir gently together. 
Make a foundation of spinach, or boiled rice and cheese, brushed well over 
with Qg^g and browned in the oven. Slice the fillet, place the parts 
together again, and dish on the foundation. Garnish with the macaroni, 
&c., and pour sauce over. 

Fillet of Beef, Lorraine— Filet de Bceuf a la Lorraine 

Prepare and braise the fillet as before. Prepare some potato border 
and make a socle down a dish the size of the fillet and 2 in, high; brush 
over with egg, and brown in the oven. Slice and place together again 
and dish on potato. Garnish with some small button onions, braised; 
some potato, made from the potato border, with a little cream added, 
and laid out on a baking sheet with a star tube, and browned in the 



JOINTS U9 

oven; and some braised small cabbages. After reducing the liquor add 
to some Neapolitan sauce and pour over. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, Roman— Filet de Bceuf Brais^ A la Romaine 

Proceed exactly as for a la Milanaise, substituting tomato sauce for 
espagnole. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, American — Filet de Bceuf Braisi^ 
a l'Americaine 

Cut, trim, and lard the fillet with strips of bacon; braise and disli 
on spinach; glaze over and garnish with small tomato cut in halves. 
Fill with mushroom puree and finely-cut straw potatoes. Reduce the 
liquor to a demiglaze and pour over. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, Palestine — Filet de B<euf Brais^ A la 

Palestine 

Trim and braise the fillet. When done, glaze, cut, and dish on mashed 
potatoes; garnish with balls of artichokes cut with a vegetable scoop, 
parboiled and finished in clarified butter in the oven, with small braised 
button onions. Add to the reduced liquor some financiere sauce. Reduce 
again and pour round. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, Sevang — Filet de Bceuf Braise A la Sevang 

Cut and trim the fillet and lard each side of it, leaving the top plain. 
When done, glaze, and lay a strip of the following down the part not 
larded. Chop finely eight gherkins, with two or three leaves of tarragon; 
place in a stewpan on the stove until quite dry; stir in the yolks of 
three eggs and one teaspoonful of velout^ sauce. Spread this smooth 
with a palette knife and decorate with truffle. Make a garnish of olives 
stuffed with mushroom pur^e, and dish alternately round with green peas. 
Reduce the liquor to a demiglaze and pour round. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, Delmonico — Filet de Bceuf Brais6 A la 

Delmonico 

Cut and trim and braise a rather thin fillet of beef. When cooked, 
coat over with a chicken farce mixed with some finely chopped ham 
and tomato puree. Set back in the oven until the farce is firm and 
cooked; then slice and lay down the centre of a casserole, on croiitons of 
fried bread to raise it up. Place a garnish of finely shredded French 
beans on one side, and very small potato croquettes on the other side. 
Reduce the liquor to a half-glaze and pour over. 

Braised Fillet of Beef, Ligny— Filet de BG'Xf Braise A la Ligny 

Prepare, lard, and braise a thin fillet When done, glaze, and slice, 
about i in. thick; put together again and dish on a mould of spiuacli. 



150 MENU DISHES 

Garnish with shredded red cabbage, braised, and potato "chateau". 
Reduce the liquor witli a little red wine and pour over. 

Boiled Beef — Bceuf Bouillie 

Place 10 lb. of silverside or round of beef in pickle for seven days; 
take out, wash, and put to boil; skim off any scum and simmer gently 
for three hours. Make some suet dumplings and place with the beef 
an hour before it is done. Cut up some carrots, turnips, and leeks, 
and cook these with the beef. Send to table with the fat fastened 
with a silver skewer. Garnish with the dumplings and vegetables. 

Round of Beef — Culotte de Bceuf Bouillie 

The large round of beef, cold, is excellent for outdoor catering, and 
makes a capital jpiece de resistance. 

Roast Leg of Mutton — Gigot de Mouton R6ti 

Choose a M^ell-hung leg of mutton about 7 lb. Saw off the shank 
bone; with the point of a steel make a hole in the knuckle end along 
the bone; push a small clove of garlic in. Dust over with salt and 
jQour, and roast or bake in the oven for one hour and three-quarters. 
Make the gfravy from under the meat, and serve with a paper frill round 
the knuckle. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton — Gigot de Mouton Bouilli 

Put a 7-lb. leg of mutton in an oval pot, just covered with cold water. 
When boiling, add a little salt, and simmer gently for two and a quarter 
hours. Cook some pieces of carrot, turnip, and small onions with it; 
if desired, small suet dumplings also. When done, reduce some of the 
liquor to add to the caper sauce which, as a rule, accompanies this dish. 

Braised Leg of Mutton — Gigot de Mouton Braise 

Take a 7-lb. leg of mutton; cut off the shank bone and lay on a 
braise of vegetable (made of three carrots, two turnips, four onions, three 
cloves, and a blade of mace, a little ham fat, which has been simmering 
for ten minutes). Cover, and continue simmering for twenty minutes; 
add 3 qt. of stock and put in the oven to cook, which will take about 
five and a half hours. Dish with a paper frill round the knuckle. 
Garnish with carrots, turnips, and small onions, also braised. Strain, and 
pour gravy over. 

Stuffed Leg or Mutton — Gigot de Mouton Farci 

Remove the bone from a 5-lb. leg of mutton by beginning at the 
knuckle end and passing a thin knife round the bone, folding the meat 
away from you as you proceed. Saw off at the end of the leg bone; 
season, and fold the meat back again. Fill in with veal farce or veal 



JOINTS 151 

stuffing, to which add a little mushroom pur^e. Sew up the end and 
braise as above for three hours. Send to table with a boat of piquant 
sauce and any vegetable garnish that may be preferred. 

Roast Shoulder of Mutton — £paule de Mouton R6tie 

Choose a plump 5-lb shoulder of mutton. Chop off tlie bone just 
above the joint; sprinkle with salt and a little flour, and set to roast in 
front of the Are, basting well, for one hour and a quarter. If cooked 
in the oven, lay some clean dripping on and cover with greased paper. 
Make the gravy from under the meat; season, and pour round. It is 
usual to serve a boat of onion sauce with this joint. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton— Epaule de Mouton Farcie 

Bone the shoulder of mutton, without cutting the skin; lay it on 
the table; season the meat with salt and pepper and stuff it as for 
stuffed leg of mutton. Sew it up into a round shape and braise it. 
Either reduced braised liquor or piquant, Italian, or any well-seasoned 
stock sauce may be served with this joint. 

Rolled Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters — £paule de Mouton 
RouL^E aux HuItres 

Bone a small shoulder of mutton, season the meat, and lay in twenty- 
four oysters (with beards removed). Sew up into a roll shape; braise, 
and when quite tender, glaze over, and pour a brown oyster sauce round. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton — Selle de Mouton R6tie 

The saddle is the whole double loin with the legs cut off. Trim the 
outside skin off, and mark the other with the point of a sharp knife, 
diamondwise. Fold the flap underneath and bind round three times 
with string. Split the tail, curl round, and skewer a kidney in each 
half; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour; cover, and baste well in the 
cooking. Allow two hours for a 10-lb. saddle. Make the gravy from 
under the meat. Red-currant jelly should always accompany saddle of 
mutton. 

Braised Saddle of Mutton, Grand Duke— Selle de Mouton k la 

Grand Dug 

Proceed exactly as above. Glaze and garnish with points of asparagus 
cut about IJ in. long, and small heads of stewed chicory, coated with white 
sauce. Add to the reduced liquor a little red-currant jelly and qort wine, 
and pour round. 



152 MENU DISHES 

^RAISED Saddle of Mutton, with Celery — Selle de Mouton Braisee 

Au Celeri 

Prepare and braise as above. Glaze, and garnish with small bundles 
of stewed celery. Pour some demiglaze round, and serve with celery 
sauce handed separately. 

Boiled Neck of Mutton — Carre de Mouton Bouilli 

Chine a neck of mutton by sawing away the backbone from the 
cutlet meat. Then trim and bare the top of the bones about 1 in. 
down and put to boil with some vegetable. Simmer until quite tender. 
Dry the fat in the oven for a minute or two; dish on one side of a 
mound of mashed potato (previously browned in the oven), bones upwards. 
Put whatever garnish is to be used on the other side; place a cutlet frill 
on each bone and pour sauce round. Caper, soubise, piquant, or other 
sauce may be served with this dish. 

EoAST Neck of Mutton — Carre de Mouton E6ti 

Prepare as for boiling. Dust over with salt, pepper, and flour; place 
in a baking tin and cover with buttered paper, or roast in front of 
fire. Keep it of a nice golden colour. Make the gravy from under the 
meat and pour round. 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



TX 

763 

K57 

v,4. 



Kirkland, John 

The modem baker, 
confectioner and caterer 



BV> 



►Vie* 



THE MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER AND CATERER 






n 



H \ 



u 





z 

O 

P 

m 
O 

uu 

O 
z 

Q 
Q 

UJ 

o 

Ul. 






THE 

MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER 
AND CATERER 



A PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORK 
FOR THE BAKING AND ALLIED TRADES 



EDITED BY 

JOHN KIRKLAND 

LECTURER AND TEACHER OF BREAD- MAKING NATIONAL 
BAKERY SCHOOL BOROUGH POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE LONDON 



WITH CONTRIBUTIONS FROM LEADING 
SPECIALISTS AND TRADE EXPERTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. V 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

THIRTY-FOUR SOUTHAMPTON STREET STRAND LONDON 

1909 



m 

MS 




CONTENTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. V 



MENU DISHES 



Page 

Chapter XXXIV. The Preparation of a Boar's Head - - - 153 

Commercial Boar's Head — Size of Head — To Bone the Head — Dry Pickle — Pickling 
in Brine — StuflBng for Boar's Head — Seasoning for Force Meat — Covering to Boil in 
— Cutting the Ears — Tying up the Head — Boiling in Stock — Boiling in Water — 
Cooking the Ears — Head allowed to Set — Farce for Moulding — Moulding the Head — 
Method of Glazing— Placing Eyes and Tusks — Piping Figures, &c. 

Chapi'er XXXV. Vegetable and Fruit Salads 156 

Salad Vegetables — Salad Dressing — Oil for Salad — Plain Dressing — Rich Salad 
Dressing — Sugar in Salad Dressing — Potato Salad^ — Plain Green Salad — Garnishing 
Salad — French Salad — Keeping Eggs Bright— Skinning Tomatoes — French Spring 
Salad — Radishes — Plain Cucumber Salad — Tomato Salad — Chopped Parsley and 
Spanish Onions — German Salad— Apples in Salad — Macedoine Salad — Russian Salad 
— Ham and Tongue — Prawns and Crayfish — Caviar — Lobster Salad — Italian Salad — 
Fish and Meat Salads — French Method of Salad Dressing — Fruit Salads — Iced 
Macedoine of Fruits — Tim bales for Fruit Salad — Use of Tinned Fruits — Orange Salad 
— Cherry Salad — Banana Salad — Pear Salad — Whipped Cream and Strawberries. 

Chapter XXXVL Vegetables for Garnishing and Second-Course 

Dishes ........ 162 

Boiled Potatoes — New Potatoes— Mashed Potatoes— Potato Balls— Chip Potatoes — 
Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel — New Potatoes, with Cream — Stewed Green Peas — 
Peas, French Method — Glazed Turnips — Glazed Carrots — Vegetable Marrows — As- 
paragus — French Beans, with Supreme Sauce — Broad Beans a la Creme — Cucumber, 
with Espagnole Sauce — Cucumber, with Veloute Sauce — Tomatoes, with Italian Sauce 
—Forced Mushrooms — Cauliflowers— Cauliflower with Cheese — Celery— Celery, with 
Espagnole Sauce — Vegetables for Garnishing. 

Chapter XXXVII. Puddings and Sweets 168 

Caramel Rice Pudding— Balmoral Rice Pudding — Balmoral Pudding, No. 2— Rice 
and Apple Pudding— Apple Marmalade — Palermo Pudding — Semolina Pudding — 
Vanilla Pudding — Chocolate Pudding— Coffee Pudding— Tutti-Frutti Pudding— 



vi CONTENTS 

Page 
Ginger Pudding — Amber Pudding — Lemon Sauce for Amber Pudding— Princess 

Pudding — Chestnut Pudding — Raspberry Pudding — Plain Raspberry Pudding — 

Bread Crumbs in Puddings — Pineapple Pudding — Coburg Pudding — Saxony Pudding 

— Apricot Pudding — Orange Pudding — French Pudding — Ostend Pudding — Cabinet 

Pudding — Plain Bread Pudding — Conservative Pudding — Tapioca Pudding — Nouille 

Pudding — Parmesan Cheese Pudding — Imperial Pudding — Christmas Pudding — 

Christmas Plum Pudding, No. 2 — Noir Pudding — Strawberry Pudding — Biscuit 

Pudding— Bread and Butter Pudding — Plain Plum Pudding — Rice and Stewed Fruit 

— College Pudding. 

Chapter XXXVIII. Sweet Sauces for Puddings - - - - 179 

Madeira Sauce — Apricot Sauce — Rich Vanilla Sauce — Plain Custard — Apple Sauce — 
Orange Sauce. 

LIGHT REFRESHMENTS 
Chapter XXXIX. Wine Cups and Iced Light Refreshments - - 181 

Claret Cup — Hock Cup — Moselle Cup— Burgundy Cup — Badminton Cup — Loving 
Cup — Champagne Cup — Cider Cup — Beer Cup — Other Cups — Lemonade — Orangeade 
— Iced Coffee. 

Chapter XL. Sandwiches and Savoury Rolls - - - - - 184 

Sandwiches and Petits Pains — Sandwich-cutting— Mustard -and -Cress Sandwiches — 
Cucumber Sandwiches — Tomato Sandwiches — Ham Sandwiches — Tongue Sandwiches 
— Smoked Salmon Sandwiches — Beef Sandwiches — Potted Beef — Potted Veal-and- 
Ham Sandwiches — Chicken Sandwiches — Chesterfield Sandwiches — Fowl and Mush- 
room Sandwiches — Foie Gras Sandwiches— Sardine Sandwiches — Anchovy Sandwiches 
— Lobster Sandwiches — Shrimp Sandwiches — Petit Pain de Foie Gras — Chicken 
Rolls — Lobster Rolls — Shrimp Rolls — Salmon Rolls — Chicken Rissoles. 



OUTSIDE CATERING 
Chapter XLI. The Confectioner-Caterer - 190 

Outdoor Catering a Special Business — Folly of Cheap Estimates — Meanness of Enter- 
tainers — Calculate Cost of Transit — Need of Good Service— Customers Prefer Atten- 
tion of Principals — Staff Required— Proportion of Waiters to Guests — Carting and 
Packing — Taking Care of Plant — Counting the Guests — Punctuality Necessary. 

Chapter XLII. Estimating and Hiring 195 

Careful Estimating — Expedients for Cheapness — Keeping Own Hire — Hire Prices — 
Conditions of Hiring — Rates for Different Periods — Total Hire for Functions— Goods 
Required for a Dinner for Twenty Persons — Sit-down Wedding Breakfast or Ball 
Supper for Twenty Persons— Buffet Breakfast or Supper List for Fifty Persons — 
Wedding Reception for Twenty Persons — Cost of Hiring Plated Ornaments, &c., sepa- 
rately — Cost of Hiring Tables, Seats, and Chairs — Capacity for Various Functions, and 
Prices of Hire, of Marquees with Square Ends without Decorations. 

Chapter XLIII. Arranging the Tables 202 

Breadth of Tables — Caterers' Difficulties — Temporary Rooms, Tents, &c. — Table Room 
for Each Person — Carving and Service Tables — Suitable Arrangement for Small 
Parties — Plan for about Sixty Persons — Service Position for Large Tent Party — 
Arrangement for Large Party in Small Space — Cosy Arrangement of Tables — Buffet 
System for Light Refreshments — Circular Tables — Arrangement of Small Tables — 
Value of Straight Passages — Importance of Careful Table Planning. 



CONTENTS vii 

Page 

Chapter XLIV. Estimating for Teas, Luncheons, Ball Suppers, &c. 208 

Small Margins — Estimate for a Tea for 200 Persons at 9d. per Head — Tea for 200 
at Is. — Luncheon for 200 at 2s. — Plain Dinner for 500 at tin. — Dinner for 100 at 
3s. — Dinner for 100 at 6s.— Ball Supper, including Light Refreshments, for 100 at 6»., 
with Hot Soup on Departure — Reception for 500 at 3s. 6d. — Garden Party for 200 at 
3s. 6d.— Ball Supper for 200 at 5s.— Wedding Breakfast for 50 at 7s. 6d. 

Chapter XLV. Sample Menus 224 

Dinner Price Factors — Special Menus from Recipes — Dinner for 100 at 6s. — Dinner 
for 100 at 7s. 6cJ.— Dinner for 100 at 9s.— Dinner for 100 at 12s. 6d.— Dinner for 
100 at 158. — Dinner for 100 at 17s. 6d. — Ball Suppers and Receptions. 



RESTAURANT CATERING 
Chapter XLVI. The Restaurant Kitchen 228 

Restaurant v. Dining-room — Keep Departments Separate — The Stockpot — Stewpans 
— Bain-marie — Frying Kettle — Frying Pans — Sieves — Large and Small Coolers — 
Pointed Strainers — Fish Kettles — Cast-iron Boiling Pots— Block-tin Boiling Pots— 
Small Utensils — Enamelled - iron Dishes — Mincing Machines — Mortar— Carving in 
Dining-room — Hot Tables — Duties of Carver — Sweets in Restaurant Menu — Pastries 
as Sweets — Staff for Restaurant— Scullery Maid — Relation of Manager and Chef — 
Difficulties of Starting — Duties of Chef — Second Cook's Duties —Duties of Kitchen 
Maid — Duties of Vegetable Cook — Duties of Kitchen Porter — Duties of Scullery Maid 
— Supplies— Making up Left Viands — The Cold-Meat Table — Permanent Dishes — 
Chef, Manager, and Head Waiter — To Use up Cold Lamb — Use of Cold Veal — To 
Use Cold Poultry — Liquor from Boiled Meats — Typical Menus for Restaurants — 
Cottage Pie — Lancashire Hot Pot — Bouchees and Patties — Importance of Carving 
— Checking in Dining-room — Checking in Kitchen — Checking Goods Received. 

Chapter XLVII. The Management of a Restaurant - - - 241 

Classes of Restaurant — London and Provincial Restaurants Compared — To Hold 
Customers — A Restaurant for 200 — The Service Staff — Staff for Carving — Checking 
Accounts — Check on Kitchen — Checks on Waiters — Books to be Kept — Monthly 
Stocktaking — Checking Tradesmen's Accounts — Importance of Chef and Waiter — 
The Carver — Diary for Prices — Petty Cash Purchases — Manager's Ability to Carve — 
Hints on Carving — Knives for Different Purposes — Choosing the Joints — How to 
Carve a Joint — Carving a Sirloin — Boiled Round of Beef — Leg of Mutton — Haunch 
of Mutton — Carving Leg of Pork — Carving Large Fowl — Fowls, Ducklings, &c. — 
Haunch of Venison — Veal, Ham, and Tongue — Restaurant Fittings — An Efficient 
Carving Table — The Silver Grill — Setting out Cold Joints — Table d'Hote Luncheons 
— Country Hotel Ordinary — Variety the Essential — Specimen Restaurant Menus — 
Dishes in Season — Moderate Charges, 

Chapter XLVIII. Luncheon and Tea Rooms 253 

Definition of a Tea Room — Savouries in Tea Shops — Tariff of Leading Tea Shops — 
The Crockery — Dirty Tablecovers — Civil Waitresses — Tipping System — Payment by 
Returns — Uniformity of Quality — Coffee-house Tea — Combination Appliance — Good 
Coffee — Siphons for Coffee without Grounds — Percolating Coffee Machines — Counter 
Hotplate — Water-boiler and Hotplate — Combined Appliances — Boiling- water Pillar — 
Steam Counter Combination — Profits in Poor Districts — Self-steaming Cookers — 
Jacketed Pie-warmer — Counter Pastry-warmer and Hotplate. 



CONTENTS 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

Page 

Chapter XLIX Bakery Ovens 269 

Importance of Good Ovens — Essentials of a Good Oven — Value of Appearance — The 
Best Oven — Simplest Kind of Oven — Old Scotch Ovens— Management of the Old 
Scotch Oven — The Wagon Oven — Modern Scotch Oven — Management of the Scotch 
Oven — Heat Capacity of the Scotch Oven — Source of Heat in the Scotch Oven — 
Cottage Loaves in a Scotch Oven — Advantages and Disadvantages of the Scotch 
Oven — Side-flue Ovens — Heating in Side-flue Oven — Flat-crowned Ovens — Advantages 
and Disadvantages of Side-flue Ovens — Use of Coke in Side -flue Ovens — Austrian 
Oven — Externally Heated Ovens — Advantages and Disadvantages of Externally 
Heated Ovens — Hot-air Ovens — Baker's Patent Oven — Chamber Ovens — Heat Trap 
Oven — Economy of Fuel — Reel Oven — Merits and Defects of Reel Oven — "Yankee " 
or "Boomerang" Ovens — Rotary Oven — Travelling Ovens— Steam-pipe Ovens — 
Inventor of Steam -pipe Oven — Use of Dead plate — Increasing Bottom Heat — Radiant 
Heat and the Carbon-Monoxide Flame — The Firing of Steam-pipe Ovens — Oven 
Temperatures — Method of Heating Steam-pipe Ovens — Drawplate Ovens— The Split 
Drawplate — Use of Producer Gas — Loop-tube Ovens — The Hawkins Oven — " Hotso " 
Oven — "Viennara" Steam-pipe Oven — Essential Points in Steam-pipe Ovens. 

Chapter L. Fuels: Their Composition and Heating Values - - 307 

Chemical Combination and Heat Production — Composition of Fuels — Air Supply foi 
Combustion — Anthracite Coal — Bituminous Coal — Cannel Coal — Brown Coal or 
Lignite — Peat — Coke— Wet Coke — Small Pieces of Coke Best — Economical Use of 
Coke — Firing Records — Heating of Ovens by Gas — Producer Gas — Water-gas Plant 
— Producer Gas and Water Gas Compared — Liquid Fuel — Electric Heating — Draught. 

Chapter LI. Machinery in the Bakery 316 

Introduction of Machinery into the Bakery — Growth of Large Factories — Cost of 
Labour per Sack of Flour — Machine-made Dough— The "Globe" Dough-making 
Machine — Speed in Dough-making Machines — Dough-making Machinery and 
Labour-saving — Hand-driven Machines Useless — Requirements of a Good Power- 
driven Machine — Machines that Break Sponge — Choice of Dough -mixing Machine 
— Methods of Machine Dough-making — Cost of Machinery — The "Universal" Dough- 
mixer — The "Viennara" Machine — German Dough-making Machine — The Drum 
Dough-making Machine — Bread- dividers — The Original Dough-divider — Handing-up 
Machines — Handing-up and Moulding Machine — Callow-Baker Moulding Machine — 
Moulding Machine for Long Tin Loaves — " United " Moulding Machine — Room for 
Invention — Werner, Pfleiderer, & Perkins' Automatic Plant — Joseph Baker & Sons' 
Automatic Plant — Oven-loading Conveyors — Conveyors for Unloading Ovens. 

Chapter LII. Confectionery Machinery ------ 332 

Confectionery Machines — Sponge-beating Machines — Cadisch Whisk — Cake-making 
Machines — Almond Cutting, Grating, and Slicing Machine. 

Chapter LIII. Power— Gas and Oil Engines 334 

Gas Engines in the Bakery— Action of the Gas Engine— Working of the Gas Engine 
—Oil Engines— Ignition Methods — The Homsby Oil Engine— The Crossley Oil 
Engine — Prices of Gas and Oil Engines. 

Chapter LIV. Electric Motors -------- 338 

Advantages of Electrical Power— Considerations Affecting Choice of Machine— Cost 
of Motors and Starters— Size of Plant needed— Types of Continuous-current Motors 
— Position of Motor- Starting the Motor— Adjustment of Speed— Sparking at the 
Brushes — Failure to Start — Excessive Heating of Parts. 



LIST OF PLATES 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. V 



Page 

Buffet for Wedding Reception {Cnhnred) ... - Frontispiece 

Boars' Heads 154 

Four Notable Irish Bakers - - - 180 

G. F. Inglis H. Kennedy 

George Baine P. Lyons 

Tent Catering 204 

Specimen Supper Tables 216 

High-class Restaurant 228 

High-class Confectioner's Tea Room -.--... 234 

A Restaurant Interior 240 

A Restaurant Dining-room - - 246 

Scheme for a Tea Room and Club Room {Coloured) - - - 252 

Scheme for a Luncheon and Dining room {Coloured) - - - 258 

Interior of the Dutch Kitchen Restaurant, Cardiff - - 264 

Well-known Caterers --...--.. 292 

William Kirkland . I. Salmon 

H. J. R, Matthews Thomas Stevens 

Corner of Restaurant Bakery - - 316 

"Viennara" Kneader; Four-c;ylinder Dough-dividing Machine 322 

Moulding Machinery 326 

Complete Automatic Bread-making Plant (Werner, Pfleiderer, 

& Perkins, Ltd.) 328 

ix 



LIST OF PLATES 

Page 

Automatic Bread-making Plant (Joseph Baker & Sons, Ltd.) - 330 

Conveyor System for Loading and Unloading Ovens - - 332 

Priestman Oil Engine and Crossley Horizontal Gas Engine - 336 

Cake and Bread Machines driven by Electric Motor - - 340 



THE PREPARATION OF A BOAR'S HEAD ' 153 

CHAPTER XXXIV 

THE PKEPARATION OF A BOAR'S HEAD 

There are probably more historical associations connected with this 
" dish " than with anything else to be found on the table during the 
Christmas or ball -supper season. Old pictures remind us that it was 
popular in the reign of King Charles I, and the daily papers of the present 
day remind us that it is still patronized by royalty and at country 
mansions, while the dish is frequently required at public functions. It 
has its grades, of course, and it naturally follows that the average pro- 
vincial caterer who goes in for the commercial boar's head Commercial 
can scarcely be expected to turn out an article precisely Boar's Head, 
similar to that whose original owner may have roamed through the wild 
forest domains of the Kaiser. For our purpose we will fall back on our 
British-bred hog to supply us with the foundation at least of this most 
substantial and decorative piece de resistance. 

In the first place it will be necessary to obtain a pig's head cut as long 
in the neck as possible — 3 or 4 inches away from the ears at least. If this 
weighs between 14 and 16 lb. it will make, when finished, 
a good average-sized head, about 18 to 20 lb. If possible, 
procure a head on which the nose is left intact; some slaughterers chop 
away the snout. Having procured a suitable head, proceed to bone it. 
This may be easily accomplished with a small butcher's knife to Bone 
by cutting the flesh from the bone, and commencing at the base *^® Head, 
of the skull to push the skin and meat over the ears. Extra care should 
be exercised at the top of the skull and down the forehead, as the skin 
itself should not be pierced anywhere. When the skull is freed from 
skin and flesh down to within about 4 in. of the snout, withdraw the skull 
as far as possible and saw through the remainder of the snout and under 
jawbone, and the head will then be ready for further preparation, with, of 
course, the snout left on. 

Now make up a mixture of 5 lb. salt, 3 oz. crushed saltpetre, 4 oz. 
Demerara sugar, 1 oz. ground pimento, | oz. mace (ground), 2 cloves garlic, 
and a tablespoonful of fine-powdered marjoram. Rub this 
mixture well into the head, and lay it on an earthenware or 
enamelled-iron dish. Put in a very cold place till next day, piling up the 
superfluous salt, &c., on the head. The following day the head may be 
turned over and the rubbing process repeated, and should the weather be 
cold it may be rubbed in this way about every forty-eight hours until it 
has been in the salt for about ten days. Should, however, the weather 
be mild or changeable, it will be as well to immerse it in liquid pickling 
brine after the first day's rubbing, as this will guard against all *" Brine, 
risks. The brine may be made as follows. Take about the third of a bar 
of salt; place this in a deep tub or earthenware pan, and pour on suf- 

VOL. II. 80 



154 MENU DISHES 

ficient cold water (probably about 2 gal.) to make a brine strong enough 
to cause an egg to float; add to this | lb. of Demerara sugar and 6 oz. 
of saltpetre, either pounded very tine or dissolved in 1 pt. of hot water. 
The head may be placed in this, with a weighted board or flat stone to 
keep it down, and left for about eight days, when it will be pickled 
sufticiently for further preparation. 

Before the pickling is completed, however, have ready the following: 
one boiled ox tongue, a piece of fat bacon about 1 lb. in weight, a pint tin 
Stuffing for of champignons, a small bottle of trufiles, 2 oz. pistachios. 
Boar's Head. 2 cloves of garlic, a bunch of parsley, marjoram, 2 eggs, 6 lb. 
very fine sausage meat or 5 lb. pork to make same, salt, pepper, ground 
mace or nutmeg. Should the operator decide on making his own sausage 
meat, it is only necessary to cut up the pork in small squares and grind 
through a mincing machine. This meat may be weighed, and one-fourth 
of its weight in bread may be added. The bread should be soaked in cold 
water for about twenty minutes, and then squeezed in a cloth to extract 
all superfluous moisture. It should then be thoroughly mixed with the 
Seasoning for meat and ground through with it twice if necessary. The 
Force Meat. seasoning should consist of 4 oz. salt, 1 oz. ground white 
pepper, | oz. nutmeg, ^ oz. ground mace. 

Before stuffing the bead it will be necessary to procure a good strong 
cloth to tie it in. This should be quite 36 in. square, and, if it has to be 
Covering to purchased, the material called Holland linen is the most suit- 
Boil m. able. This, of course, should be well washed in several waters 
before using. Several yards of strong tape or twine, preferably the former, 
will also be required for tying up. 

Having got all the foregoing articles ready, take the head from the 
brine, and after allowing to drain off" some minutes, wipe it well with a dry 

. cloth and proceed to cut off" the ears very carefully and 

with plenty of " root " to them, as we do not boil them full 
time with the head. Take every particle of bone from the ox tongue, and 
cut off' the tip and superfluous part of the root. The tip of the tongue 
may be cut in cubes about f in. square (also the fat bacon), the cham- 
pignons sliced, and the parsley chopped finely, the truffles cut in small 
pieces, and the garlic chopped exceedingly fine. When all these are ready, 
place the fine sausage meat in a large mixing-bowl; break in the eggs and 
add the seasoning, chopped parsley, garlic, and about a dessertspoonful of 
fine-powdered marjoram; then all the other ingredients, reserving, of course, 
the ox tongue. Spread out the cloth to its full extent, and place the pig's 
head on it with the nose in the centre and pointing to one of the corners. 
Slightly flour the inside of it to cause the sausage meat to adhere more 
readily, and push some of the mixture into the interior with some force. 
Repeat this till it is nearly all in. At this point the ox tongue may be 
pushed into the centre with its tip towards the pig's nose, and, when that 
is in, the remainder of the farce or sausage meat may be added. The 
head should now assume something of the shape of the original, without 




BOARS' HEADS 



THE PREPARATION OF A BOAR'S HEAD 155 

the ears, of course, which must be left out. Having got all the meat in, 
place a common dinner plate on this to keep it in position, and proceed 
to reach over the head and draw the farther point of the cloth towards you 
over the snout and forehead so as to meet the point nearest you. Tying up 
Now gather up the right and left corners of the cloth and pull *^^ Head. 
them tightly across the head, gathering all four comers together, and 
holding them tightly to keep the plate in position. Tie these four corners 
securely together at the back of the plate, leaving a strong loop in the 
twine for a purpose to be explained later. 

If a needle and strong thread are handy, it will be as well to stitch up 
folds of cloth down the pig's forehead; and, to make all more secure, the 
head may be tied round tightly with tape to keep it in as good a shape as 
possible. 

If the pot in which this is to be boiled is not quite ready, an ordinary 
butcher's S hook may be put through the loop, and the head hung some- 
where, nose downwards. If a large common stock pot is 
available, the head may be boiled in stock for about six 
hours. In lieu of this, water will have to be the medium, and it should 
always be at boiling-point; there should be plenty of room for the head. 
Two or three sliced onions, carrots, a pinch of thyme, and a few pimentos, 
with odds and ends of celery, should also be added. The • w 

head should now be carefully lowered into the boiling 
liquor, and when it has boiled gently for about three hours should be 
carefully turned completely over and allowed to complete the six hours. 

While this is going forward, the ears may be tied on the end of a piece 
of twine and dropped in at the side of it. These will only require cooking 
for about forty-five minutes to one hour, when they p . . >, p 
should be lifted out and placed carefully on a dish (back 
downward) with two weights placed on them so that they will set in a 
good shape for further use. When the head is cooked sufficiently, insert 
a meat hook in the loop of twine at the base. Lift out and hang it in 
some cold place till the following day, when it should be set Head allowed 
sufficiently for further manipulation. In the meantime pro- *° ^^** 
cure a pair of glass eyes and a pair of tusks from the taxidermist if there 
are none in stock. 

All being ready, take down the head and damp the cloth slightly with 
warm water, and proceed to remove it very carefully. The head, being 
minus its ears, will show little indication at this stage of what it is to be. 
Remove the plate and trim round the farce at the neck part, and with 
these trimmings and any odd pieces of tongue or ham in the Farce for 
larder add about 6 or 8 oz. butter. Grind this finely through Moulding, 
a mincing machine. Now examine the head from the front, and with the 
point of a knife make two incisions for the placing of the ears. Moulding 
Fix these in with short wooden skewers, and complete the joints ^^^ Head, 
with the farce. The snout may also be moulded up with this medium, and 
the head made as correct in shape as possible by its use after the mannei 



156 MENU DISHES 

of a sculptor with his modelling clay. Smooth all down with the blade of 
Method of a knife which has been dipped in boiling water. 
Glazing. j^ ^[\\ i\iQii be ready for glazing. This should be done 

very carefully, with about three coats, and when it is completed cut out 
Placing Eyes the sockets for the eyes, which may be set in with a little 
and Tusks. Qf ^^g farce, and incisions may also be made for the tusks. 
The head is now ready for piping in butter (see Chapter III, Vol. II), 
Piping and may be further embellished with hatelette skewers, aspic 

Figures, &c. jelly, or a wreath of holly, according to the exigencies of 
the occasion. (See the plate.) 



CHAPTER XXXV 

VEGETABLE AND FEUIT SALADS 

In nearly every month of the year there are in season various kinds 
of lettuce and other edible plants, such as French beans, broad beans, 
Salad asparagus, cucumber, beetroot, radishes, tarragon, chervil, garlic. 

Vegetables, onions, endive, watercress, cauliflower, dandelion leaves, 
and parsley, that are suitable for salads. People in this country do 
not consume these " green meats " to anything like the extent of 
Continental people. The demand, however, appears to be on the in- 
crease, and for outdoor functions or for the restaurant trade in hot 
weather nothing is quite so suitable as properly prepared salad. Any 
kind of salad mixed with Lucca oil, a small quantity of vinegar, and 
the necessary seasoning is wholesome and very refreshing. Fresh vege- 
tables only should be used. These must be thoroughly cleansed in cold 
water (to v/hich a little salt has been added), then drained in a colander 
and dried on a cloth. The vegetables should not be left in the water 
too long, as they lose flavour and that crispness which is essential in a 
good salad. To remove all water from the salad, close the corners of the 
cloth containing it so as to form a bag, and swing this backwards and 
forwards. When preparing endive and lettuce for some varieties of salad, 
these should not be cut with a knife, but pulled apart in pieces with the 
fingers. 

Salad Dressing 

Before dealing with the several varieties, instructions are necessary 

as to the method of preparing plain and rich salad dressing. Lucca oil 

s 1 d ^® ^^^® principal ingredient in either mixing, and if this is 

blended judiciously with the other materials the full flavour 

of the salad will be brought out. For the plain dressing use two and a 

^, . ^ . half tablespoonfuls of oil to one spoonful of vinegar, a little 
Plain Dressing. , ^ ■*■ . 

salt, fresh-ground pepper, and mustard. Place the vinegar 

in a small basin or in a salad bowl; then mix in the seasoning, add 



VEGETABLE AND FRUIT SALADS 157 

the oil, and stir all together. It is then ready for use. No dressing 
should be added to the salad until it is about to be served. 

For a rich dressing prepared with ma3^onnaise, place in a clean, cold 
basin two yolks of egg; add a little dry mustard, salt, and pepper; mix 
all together with a spatula, and while stirring drop in gradu- Rich Salad 
ally about 1| gill of Lucca oil. Continue mixing until it has Dressing, 
a firm appearance, quite smooth, like butter cream; then add a few drops 
of vinegar, with a little lemon juice. It will then be ready for thinning 
down with cream and tarragon vinegar to form the dressing. The writer 
has used a very small portion of castor sugar with this sugar in 
dressing and has found it satisfactory. Dressing thus Salad Dressing, 
prepared may be kept for several days in the larder, stored in corked 
bottles. Another kind of dressing may be prepared by passing through 
a fine sieve some hard-boiled yolk of egg, and mixing with the oil and 
vinegar as for plain dressing. 

Potato Salad 

To make a salad of potatoes, obtain small kidney potatoes early in 
the season; cook thoroughly without breaking, and when quite cold cut 
into slices. Prepare a plain dressing; add some chopped parsley, a little 
onion chopped very fine, and mix all together. The potatoes should not 
be broken during the mixing. Sprinkle some parsley over them before 
serving. 

Plain Green Salad 

Another plain salad may be prepared with cabbage or cos lettuces. 
Wash and dry the best parts; break into small pieces, and mix to plain 
dressing with which chopped tarragon and onion have been Garnishing 
mixed. Lay on the top a few small pieces of bright-coloured Salad, 
beetroot and four or five pieces of hard-boiled egg cut into quarters. 

French Salad 

French salad consists of a mixture of lettuce, endive, a little mustard 
and cress, tarragon, chervil, and the whole mixed with plain dressing to 
which hard-boiled yolks have been added. This may be decorated with 
beetroot, cucumber, tomatoes, and hard-boiled eggs as required. 

When eggs are used for these salads, care should be taken to keep 
them a good colour. Procure some fresh eggs, boil them for Keeping Eggs 
ten minutes, and allow them to remain in cold water until Bright, 
required. When tomatoes are used they should be quite fresh. It is 
advisable to remove the skin. This may be done by dipping skinning 
them in boiling water and peeling with a sharp knife. Tomatoes. 

French Spring Salad 

French spring salad is composed of dandelion leaves, lettuce, some 
leaves of Indian corn, finely chopped onions, the whole mixed with plain 



158 



MENU DISHES 



Radishes. 




dressing with which chopped tarragon and a little mint have been mixed. 
Small potatoes and tomatoes cut into slices are an improvement to this 
salad. Some varieties of these plain salads are decorated with beetroot, 
cucumber, and tomatoes, cut in slices and made to represent 
some fancy design. Small pieces of hard-boiled eggs are also 
arranged on top. Radishes may be mixed with 
either of the above salads. These should be 
small, quite fresh, and used whole or cut in 
slices. 

Plain Cucumber Salad 

Plain cucumber salad, as generally served 
with cold salmon, is prepared as follows. Re- 
move the rind from a fresh cucumber, cut this 
in thin slices, lay on a flat dish, and sprinkle 
some salt over. Allow this to remain for thirty 
minutes, then drain off what water has exuded 
from the vegetable, and pour some oil over and 
a little vinegar. Season with salt and pepper, 
and it is then ready to serve. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomato salad is prepared by mixing with slices of tomatoes a plain 
Chopped Parsley ^''^^^^ dressing made with salad oil, vinegar, finely chopped 
and Spanish tarragon, and onions. Before serving sprinkle some 

Onions. chopped parsley on top. Some prefer to mix thin slices 

of Spanish onions with this salad, but this is according to taste. 

German Salad 

Many kinds of cooked vegetables are used for German salad. There 
are several recipes which may be adopted. Prepare some small Brussels 
sprouts, some pieces of cauliflower, sliced cold potatoes, some broad beans, 
and dress with parsley, oil, vinegar, and seasoning. More vinegar is 
added to this salad than is used for the others already 
referred to. The writer has seen slices of apples used for 
garnishing, but there does not appear to be a set rule for this mixture. 



Fig. 141. —Vegetable-slicing Machine 



Apples in Salad. 



Mac:^doine Salad 

To make a Mac^doine salad, prepare and cook the following vege- 
tables: French beans, carrots, turnips, green peas, white pieces of cauli- 
flower, haricot beans, and asparagus tops. Before cooking the turnips 
and carrots they should be cut into small dice-shaped pieces. Drain 
these on a cloth, then mix with rich dressing made with mayonnaise 
and cream. Arrange all carefully in the salad bowl or dish, and orna- 
ment with pieces of various- coloured vegetables. Prepared Mac^doine 
of vegetables, sold in tins or bottles, may be used for this salad; these 



VEGETABLE AND FRUIT SALADS . 159 

require to be rinsed in water before using, especially those preserved 
in tins. 

Russian Salad 

Russian salad is similar in some respects to that just referred to. 
It also consists of a Macedoine of vegetables, with the addition of 
pieces of ham and tongue, cut into small dice shapes, 
and mixed with prawns or tails of ciaytish. Place in 
a basin some small pieces of cooked vegetables, such as green peas, 
French beans, turnips, carrots, and asparagus tops; add to these some 
pieces of gherkin, small capers, beetroot, ox tongue (cut from the 
tip), and a few prawns and crayfish tails. Mix all together Prawns and 
with mayonnaise and raise to a pyramid on the centre of a Crayfish, 
silver dish. Decorate this with alternate layers of various -coloured 
vegetables, stamped out with a |-in. plain cutter. Each colour should 
form a ring round the salad. Finish the top with a few prawns or 
crayfish tails. Another style of serving this salad is to make a border 
mould of aspic jelly and vegetables. This is turned on to a round or 
oval silver dish, and the salad raised pyramid -shape in the 
centre. When required, Russian caviar may be used in the 
decoration by pressing pieces together and laying them round the base. 

Lobster Salad 

Lobster salad is another popular dish. This is a special favourite 
among the various items prepared for supper parties. It may be served 
in salad bowls or on glass dishes, but is more attractive when neatly 
arranged on round or oval silver plates. Prepare as follows. Divide 
into pieces of convenient size some freshly washed and dried lettuce 
and endive, and season with salt and pepper. Raise this to a pyramid 
on the dish. Remove the meat out of a fresh lobster; cut it into slices 
and lay the pieces on top of the salad. Cover this with mayonnaise, 
spread on with a palette knife. Garnish the base with a border com- 
posed of pieces of small round slices of beetroot and cucumber, arranged 
so that one slice overlaps the next. Arrange in position a border of cut 
cucumber on the side of the dish, with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and 
sprinkle over the mayonnaise some coral which has been passed through 
a line wire sieve. 

Italian Salad 

Italian salad is composed of a mixture of buds of cooked cauliflower, 
French beans, Brussels sprouts, green peas, and haricot beans, to which 
may be added pieces from the breast of a fowl, or any kind of game or 
other meat. Mix all together, without breaking the vegetables, with 
mayonnaise sauce, to which have been added some chopped gherkins 
and tarragon. Raise this on a silver or glass dish, and garnish with 
farced olives. Neatly arrange some pieces of bright-coloured beetroot, 



160 MENU DISHES 

stamped out with a plain |-in. cutter, on the top of the salad, together 

with a few capers. 

Fish and Meat Salads 

With many salads, as prepared on the Continent, various kinds of 

fish, such as anchovies, pickled herrings, sardines, shrimps, and crayfish 

are added. In addition to these, poultry and game, also various kinds 

of smoked sausage and fresh-cooked meat, are used. It is not advisable 

to mix these or any other salads with the dressing until required for 

the table, as they lose their fresh appearance quickly when saturated 

with the oil. 

French Method of Salad Dressing 

The French style of preparing salads may be adopted for many of 
the other Continental dishes referred to, by changing the principal ingre- 
dients. Cut four anchovietj into very small pieces, from which all bones 
have been removed. Prepare a very small piece of garlic, and chop this 
very fine with some parsley, a small onion, and one shallot. Place these 
into a salad bowl; season with salt, pepper, and French mustard; add 
the oil and vinegar and mix thoroughly. Drop in some pieces of cold 
roast fillet of beef or other kind of meat. Sprinkle over it some chopped 
tarragon or parsley, and serve plain, or decorate with pieces of beetroot 
or potatoes, previously pickled in vinegar. 

Fruit Salads 

Fruit salads are made with fresh or bottled fruits, cut into small pieces, 
mixed with syrup and various liqueurs, and iced prior to serving. 

Iced Macedoine of Fruits 

Iced MacMoine of fruits is the queen of these salads. During the 
summer months, when varieties of fresh fruits are obtained at small cost, 
this is in great demand for luncheon, supper, and other parties. It may 
be served in salad bowls or in silver dishes, and a mould of rich lemon 
Timbales for water ice placed on the centre of each. The writer has 
Fruit Salad. used small timbales made with rich, short paste, the borders 
decorated wuth sugar liqueur rings of various colours, for serving this 
salad. These were useful as well as attractive, especially for hotel and 
restaurant trade. Prepare as follows. Place some apple jelly in a shallow 
pan and mix with clear stock syrup. Add some small, ripe strawberries, 
pieces of bananas, peaches, pineapple, apricots, pears, greengages, and 
black and white grapes. Flavour with two or three wineglassfuls of 
maraschino; turn all into a freezer, place in a tub and charge with plain 
ice. Allow to remain three or four hours before sending to table. 

When the price of fresh fruits does not permit of these being used, 
Use of Tinned add preserved cherries, or pieces of apple previously cooked 
Fruits. in red syrup, with tinned or bottled apricots, pears, and 

peaches. 



VEGETABLE AND FRUIT SALADS 161 

Orange Salad 

To prepare a salad of oranges, choose some sound fruit, and remove 
every particle of the rind with a sharp knife. Remove the fillets of 
the oranges, leaving out the pips and inner skin. Place on a china or 
glass compote stand and cover with a little stock syrup and sufficient 
Curasao to flavour. 

Cherry Salad 

To prepare a salad of cherries, remove the stones from some bright- 
coloured fruit, and bring this to the boil with some syrup, the rind of 
a lemon, a few bay leaves, and a small piece of stick cinnamon. Drain 
off" the syrup; place the fruit on a dish or salad bowl; sprinkle over it 
some noyau, and add part of the syrup in which the fruit was cooked. 
Boiling in syrup is necessary only when the fruit is not soft or sufficiently 
ripe. 

Banana Salad 

Salad made with bananas should not be prepared until required for 
serving, as the fruit changes colour quickly. Cut into small pieces and 
serve with syrup flavoured with a little noyau and maraschino or kirsch- 
wasser. 

Pear Salad 

Stewed pears and port wine are served mostly as a dinner sweet. 
Remove the rind from some well-shaped pears. Cut in halves, remove 
the core, and simmer gently in weak syrup containing some carmine, a 
few bay leaves, and pieces of stick cinnamon. When the fruit is cooked 
through, remove the pieces to a basin and reduce the syrup by further 
boiling; then add to it some red-currant jelly. Strain this mixture 
on to the fruit. When quite cold, and just before sending to the table, 
add a little port wine. This fruit, if iced, is a favourite dish at ball 
suppers, &c. 

Whipped Cream and Strawberries 

Iced whipped cream and strawberries is prepared as follows. Beat 
some double cream quite firm, and sweeten with fine castor sugar. Mash 
the strawberries and mix with the cream; place in a freezer charged 
with plain ice, and when thoroughly cooled and firm serve on small ice 
plates or in paper cases. The fruit should not be mashed into pulp, but 
only broken into small pieces. 



ToL. II 81 



162 MENU DISHES 

CHAPTER XXXVI 

VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING AND SECOND-COURSE DISHES 

Boiled Potatoes 

It is not a bad test of a cook's knowledge and carefulness when simple 
boiled potatoes are always turned out satisfactorily. In restaurant kitchens 
there are usually suitable appliances for cooking the potatoes by steam, but 
they may be cooked quite as satisfactorily with care by boiling in water. 
Wash the potatoes carefully, and if they are to be cooked in their skins, 
it is better to scrub them to get the mould out of the eyes. Otherwise, 
pare and place them in a suitable saucepan with enough cold water, in 
which a piece of salt is dissolved. Boil the water until the potatoes are 
sufficiently cooked; the average time required to cook them after the water 
is boiling is about twenty minutes, but the time varies according to the size 
of the potatoes and their kind. Some sorts need very careful watching, as, 
unless they are strained at just the right moment, there is a danger of their 
breaking up and becoming watery. 

New Potatoes 

When potatoes are quite new the skin is so thin that it can be readily 
scraped off, after the potatoes are washed. They are cooked in the same 
manner as old potatoes by boiling or steaming, but as they are smaller than 
old potatoes the time required may be a little less, unless the new ones are 
of the waxy sort, when they require longer cooking. After they are done 
and strained a piece of butter is added, and some raw spring onions, 
chopped small, well mixed with them, and the wdiole nicely seasoned with 
pepper and salt. 

Mashed Potatoes 

When potatoes are required to be mashed they should be carefully 
cooked to a mealy state. The potatoes are then broken up until quite 
smooth and free from lumps, and a little salt butter and milk or cream 
added, with sufficient pepper and salt to season nicely, and the whole beaten 
with a fork until of a light creamy consistency. 

Potato Balls 

When a quantity of boiled potatoes is left over, there is no better way 
in which they can be advantageously used up than in the form of potato 
balls. The cold potatoes are passed through a fine sieve, as they cannot 
easily be mashed to smoothness except when they are newly cooked. After 
they are passed through the sieve they may be further mashed to render 
them as smooth as possible. About 1 oz. of butter for each pound of pota- 
toes is added, and sufficient milk or cream to make the mixture of a firm 
consistency. About one e^g is added as the binding agent and the whole 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING 



163 



mixture beaten light. They are then moulded with a spoon or in the hand 
to any desired shape and size, washed over with egg, and rolled in bread 
raspings. They are then cooked in a saucepan containing sufficient depth 
of fat to keep the potato balls off the bottom of the pan, or in a wire 
basket which fits into the saucepan. When cooked to a golden brown they 
are served up, either quite dry or along with brown gravy in a sauceboat. 

Chip Potatoes 

In the restaurant business, especially in establishments where chops and 
steaks are the only hot dishes served, potatoes are more often asked for in 
chip form than in any other. There are two 
forms of chipped or fried potatoes in common 
request. One form is for the potatoes to be 
sliced in round very thin leaves about the 
thickness of a shilling, and cooked in hot fat 
to a golden brown and until quite crisp, and 
then with a little fine salt sprinkled over. 
After cooking, the potatoes should be drained 
well before the fire or in a hot cupboard to 
remove as much of the adhering fat as pos- 
sible. The other and much more common 
method of serving fried potatoes is in oblong 
pieces cut by hand or in a small machine 
(fig. 142). The potato can be cut longways 
into say eight pieces, and fried in the usual 
way as described above,drained, and sprinkled 
with salt. Successful frying of potatoes de- 
pends on the fat being perfectly clean and 
sufficiently hot. The pan containing the fat 
should be cleaned out daily; fat of sweet or 

neutral taste should always be used, and it is better always to fry the 
potatoes in a frying basket. If the fat is bubbling up it is not readj^, the 
bubbling being due to the water it contains boiling out. The fat when 
hot enough should appear quite still, but hisses violently when a few drops 
of water are thrown on it. Potatoes cooked in fat too cold will not colour 
nicely, are tough, and taste greasy. When the fat is sufficiently heated 
they are of a nice golden brown, crisp, and free from the least taste of 
greasiness. 

Potatoes 1 la MaItre d'Hotel — Pommes de Terre a la 
MaItre d'Hotel 

Small French kidney potatoes are best suited for this dish. Prepare 
them in the usual way, and when ready cut them into slices about ^ in. 
thick; put them into a saucepan with a little white sauce, a little butter, 
a few drops of lemon juice, and a little seasoning of salt, white and cayenne 
pepper. Toss them over the fire until all are mixed; then transfer to a 




Fig. 142.— Chip-potato Macliine 



164 MENU DISHES 

silver or china dish; sprinkle over them some chopped parsley, and serve 
with small croiltons placed round. 

New Potatoes, with Cream— Pommes de Terre Nouvelles 

k LA CrEME 

Cook some new kidney potatoes, cut into slices, put them into a sauce- 
pan with some fresh cream, seasoning with a little grated nutmeg and a 
few drops of lemon juice. Toss them over the stove without breaking the 
vegetables; transfer to a dish; sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top; 
arrange in position some small croiitons of fried bread, and serve while hot. 

Stewed Green Peas — Petits Pois 

Put 1 pt. of peas into a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to cover; 
add a small faggot of mint, a little parsley, and one small onion; stir in 
one teaspoonful of sugar and 1 oz. of fresh butter, also a little salt. The 
peas should not be overcooked. When ready, strain off the liquor, add a 
little clarified butter to the vegetables, turn out and dish with small crotltons 
placed round. 

Peas, French Method — Petits Pois 1 la Franqaise 

Prepare the peas as directed above, with only sufficient water to cover; 
add a small piece of soda and extra sugar. When cooked, strain off the 
liquor, and add to the peas a small quantity of light-coloured glaze — a piece 
of butter previously mixed with some flour. Toss all together over the fire 
without damaging the vegetable, and serve with croutons placed round. 

Glazed Turnips — Navets a l'Allemande 

Turn about one dozen turnips into the form of rings about 2;^ in. in 
diameter, put them into a saut6 pan, thickly spread with fresh butter, and 
sprinkle over them about 1 oz. of castor sugar. Add 1 gill of strong con- 
somme, and set the vegetables to simmer gently over a moderate fire for 
about thirty minutes. When these are nearly cooked, remove the lid and 
place them over a brisk fire to finish cooking, and to reduce the liquor 
down to glaze. Gently roll the turnips in this, with great care to avoid 
breaking them. Dish on a silver dish, and pour the glaze over them. 
The quantity of consomme required for the above purpose will depend 
upon its quality, as well as on the thickness of the vegetables. 

Glazed Carrots — Carottes 1 l'Allemande 

Take the required quantity of young carrots and trim them so as to 
make all of equal size. Parboil them in water, with a little salt, for 
about fifteen minutes; drain them on a colander or hair sieve, and 
immerse them in cold water. After they have been in the cold water 
for twenty minutes, drain them again, and lay them on a cloth. Next 
place the carrots into a saut^ pan with some fresh butter, a little castor 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING 165 

sugar, and some strong consomme. Set the vegetables to boil over a 
steady fire, then over a brisk fire until cooked and the moisture is re- 
duced to glaze. Turn out on a hot vegetable dish, and pour round them 
some Allemande sauce (see vol. ii, p. 87) mixed with some parboiled 
chopped parsley. 

Vegetable Marrow 

Cut the marrows according to their size into suitable pieces, and place 
them in a deep saute pan, thickly spread with butter, and season with 
salt, pepper, and a little castor sugar. Moisten with some white stock, 
and set to boil gently over a steady tire for about fifteen minutes; then 
boil briskly until the liquor is reduced to a glaze. Add some Espagnole 
sauce (see Vol. II, p. 82) to the glaze, and a few drops of lemon juice; mix 
all together, and pour out on a dish without spoiling the shape of the 
vegetable. 

Another method of preparing vegetable marrows is to boil them in 
water with seasoning; then strain, and serve with a rich white sauce. 

ASPARAG US — ASPERGES 

Prepare the asparagus for cooking by scraping the stalks clean, washing 
them in cold water, and tying up into bundles of about twenty in each. 
Keep the heads one way, and cut the stalks even so as to have them 
about 8 in. in length Put the asparagus into hot water, with sufficient 
salt to season, and boil for about twenty minutes. When ready, strain 
them on a cloth, taking care not to break off the heads. Place a piece 
of toasted bread into the bottom of a dish, lay the vegetable on top of 
this, and serve with white sauce or hot clarified butter, 

French Beans, with Supreme Sauce — Haricots Vert's A. la MaItre 

d'H6tel 

String some fresh beans, shredded into small pieces. Wash them in 
plenty of water, drain, and turn them into a pan of boiling water; add 
some salt, and boil them briskly until they become tender. Drain them 
in a colander, then upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture. Place into 
a saucepan a small quantity of supreme sauce (see vol. ii, p. 87), with 
2 oz. fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of half 
a lemon, and a little seasoning. Stir these well together over che stove, 
and when ready, throw in the beans, and toss all together over the fire 
until ready for serving. Where so desired a border of fried croutons 
may be dished with the beans. 

Another method of preparing these beans for the table is to mix them 
when removed from the boiling water with a hot mixture, consisting of 
chopped shallots, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, the juice of a lemon, 
fresh butter, and chopped parsley. The beans should be tossed over the 
fire with the above ingredients before serving. 



166 MENU DISHES 

Broad Beans a la Creme 

Beans for this purpose must be youn^. Boil them in plenty of water 
containing some salt and a small faggot of parsley and onion. Drain 
them in a colander, and put them into a saucepan with some fresh butter, 
a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Toss them over 
the fire, and add some white sauce before serving. 

Cucumber, with Espagnole Sauce— Concombres a l'Espagnole 

Prepare some pieces of cucumber about 1| to 2 in. long; trim them 
round and smooth at the ends, and remove the skin and seeds. Parboil 
them in water and salt for five minutes, and then drain on a cloth. Fill 
each piece of cucumber with some quenelle forcemeat of chicken (see 
Vol. II, p. 124); then arrange them in a saut^ pan, lined with thin layers 
of fat bacon; cover also with bacon; add a little consomme, and set them 
to simmer gently over a slow fire for about twenty-five minutes. When 
quite tender, dish them in pyramid form, and pour over them some bright 
Espagnole sauce. * 

Cucumber, with Veloute Sauce — Concombres a. la Poulette 

Prepare some pieces of cucumber cut into small scallops about IJ in. 
long, place in a basin, and sprinkle over them some salt and vinegar. 
Allow these to remain for three or four hours; then drain oft' the liquor, 
and finish as follows. Put the cucumber into a saute pan with some 
fresh butter, a little crushed mace, and a tablespoonful of sugar, and 
allow these to simmer over a slow fire until quite tender. Drain oflf 
what liquor is in the pan, place the cucumbers on a dish, and pour over 
them some veloute sauce (see Vol. II, p. 82) to which has been added 
some chopped parsley and lemon juice. 

Tomatoes, with Italian Sauce— Tomates a la Proven^ale 

Take some sound English tomatoes, and select them as nearly as 
possible of the same size; cut ofi' the lower part that adheres to the 
stalk; scoop out the seeds without breaking the fruit, and finish as follows. 
Chop together a handful of parsley, some mushrooms, and two or three 
shallots; put these into a stewpan with 2 oz. of fat bacon; season with 
pepper, salt, and thyme. Fry these over the fire for several minutes, 
then add four yolks, 2 or 3 oz. of bread crumbs, and finish cooking. 
Then remove this mixture, and use for filling each tomato. When the 
fruit is filled with this preparation, sprinkle some raspings of bread over 
each. Prepare a saut^ pan containing a little hot salad oil, lay the 
forced tomatoes in this, cover with a round piece of buttered paper, and 
bake them in a hot oven. When ready, dish up in the form of a dome, 
and pour over it some Italian sauce (see Vol. II, p. 82). 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING 167 

Forced Mushrooms— Champignons au Gratin 

Prepare some mushrooms by removing the skin and stalks, trim the 
edges, then fill each mushroom with a preparation similar to that pre- 
pared for Tomatoes a la Proven^ale. Sprinkle some raspings over each, 
place into a saute pan previously covered with a layer of fresh butter; 
cover with buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen 
minutes. Dish them up in pyramid form, and pour some Italian sauce 
over them. 

Cauliflowers — Choux-fleurs 

Choose those cauliflowers that are close and white. Trim off some of 
the leaves, taking care that there are no caterpillars about the stalk, 
and soak the vegetable for one hour in cold water. Boil them in milk 
and water, or water only, until they are tender; then remove, drain on 
a sieve, and serve with a white sauce poured over the cauliflower. To 
keep this vegetable of a good colour it will be advisable, while boiling, 
to remove all scum as it rises to the surface. 

Cauliflower with Cheese— Choux-fleurs au Gratin 

Prepare and dish up the cauliflowers as directed above. Put | pt. of 
velout^ sauce into a stewpan; add 3 oz. of Parmesan cheese and a little 
fresh butter, three yolks, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, with a few 
drops of lemon juice. Stir this mixture over a steady fire until it 
becomes quite hot, — but do not allow to boil. Smooth the dish of cauli- 
flower over with a knife, and mask it entirely with the preparation. 
Sprinkle over it some grated Parmesan cheese, and place the dish into 
the oven for about fifteen minutes. Remove when the contents have 
acquired a light- brown colour. 

Celery — Celeri 

Wash six heads of celery, and strip off their outer leaves. Either 
split into halves or leave them whole, according to their size; cut into 
lengths of about 4 in Put the pieces into a stewpan with a cup of 
broth or weak white gravy. Stew until tender; then add a little white 
sauce, season, and allow all to simmer for a few minutes. 

Celery, with Espagnole Sauce — Celeri avec Sauce Espagnole 

Trim a few heads of celery; wash, and cut them about 5 in. in length. 
Parboil them in water for about ten minutes, and then steep them in 
cold water. Drain on a sieve, then place them into a stewpan with some 
Espagnole sauce made rich, and allow to cook until quite tender for 
serving. 

Another method of finishing the celery after parboiling, is to braize 
it in a pan of clear-coloured glaze, and serve it on a very hot dish. 



168 MENU DISHES 

Vegetables for Garnishing 

When preparing vegetables for garnishing purposes it is necessary to 
keep them as nearly as possible of one size. After being parboiled it is 
the usual practice to saut^ them over a steady fire in clear-coloured glaze, 
or in a rich sauce, either white or brown, according to the variety of 
vegetable. Sometimes it happens that two or more kinds of vegetables 
are braized together; it is then necessary to have all the pieces about 
one size, and cooked just enough to make them tender without spoiling 
their appearance. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 

PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 

Caramel Rice Pudding 

Line the mould with a thin coating of liquid caramel prepared as 
follows. Dissolve 3 oz. of castor sugar in a small copper pan over a 
steady fire, and when it becomes a light-brown colour, pour it at once 
into a warm mould. The mould should be quite dry before using. By 
turning the mould round, the sugar will form a thin coating on the bottom 
and around the sides. Bring to the boil 1;^ pt. of milk, 2 oz. of castor 
sugar, the rind of half a lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and two 
bay leaves. While the mixture is being stirred with a spoon, sprinkle in 
2^ oz. of ground rice, and cook the whole for eight minutes. Remove 
the lemon and cinnamon; add a gill of cream or a small piece of fresh 
butter; mix thoroughly and pour into the prepared mould. When quite 
cold and firm turn out on a dish. Sufficient sauce is produced by the 
caramel sugar having partly dissolved. This pudding should not be 
made stifi", and when no cream is used it is advisable slightly to increase 
the quantity of milk. 

Balmoral Rice Pudding 

Line one or more plain charlotte moulds with caramel sugar and a 
mixture of cold rice prepared as for the rice pudding. Then with a palette 
knife spread on the rice to about an inch thick; fill in the centre with 
stewed apricots free from syrup; cover all with another layer of rice^ 
and stand the moulds on a bed of ice until ready for turning out. 

Balmoral Pudding, No. 2 

This pudding consists of alternate layers of two kinds of filling pre- 
pared with the following ingredients. The first mixture is made by 
creaming together 1 oz. of honey, 4 oz. butter, 3 oz. moist sugar, and 
six yolks, then adding the whipped whites of four eggs, 4 oz. of pre- 



PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 169 

served cherries cut small, one liqueur glass of noyau, and 5 oz. flour. 
The other filling is prepared by mixing together 8 oz. of crumbs from 
a stale brown loaf and 3 oz. of currants, with sufficient milk to moisten 
and form a paste. Flavour with vanilla, and till into dressed moulds 
with alternate layers of the other preparation. Steam these in the 
usual manner, and serve with clear apricot sauce. 

Rice and Apple Pudding 

Line a fancy-shaped mould with a mixture of stewed rice as prepared 
for Balmoral pudding. This should have a thickness of an inch. When 
the rice is too soft to be used for this purpose, add extra ground rice 
before taking the pan off the stove; or, better still, stir in a small 
quantity of melted gelatine. The preparation should then be allowed to 
cool before using. Fill the hollow with apple jelly or apple marmalade; 
cover with rice and, when quite cold, turn out on to a silver or glass 
dish. Decorate the top with some jelly piped on with a paper cornet; 
also arrange a small quantity around the base. 

A large assortment of moulded rice puddings may be made by carefully 
following the instructions given above. All kinds of stewed fruits or 
prepared jelly may be used for the filling. They are easily made, and will 
be suitable for a first- or second-class trade. Where a good price can be 
obtained flavour the fruit with liqueurs, and make the appearance more 
attractive with extra decoration, 

Apple Marmalade 

Apple marmalade has been referred to, and as this conserve is used 
in other varieties of puddings, it is advisable at this stage to give 
directions for its preparation. Cut thirty sound cooking apples (Ribston 
or Blenheim orange pippins) in quarters; peel and core them, and place 
in a tinned copper stewpan. Add a small quantity of water; stand the 
pan over a steady fire; place on the cover and cook the fruit without 
allowing it to mash. When ready add 3 oz. of fresh butter, the rind 
of two lemons, a few bay leaves, sufficient castor sugar to sweeten, and 
a piece of stick cinnamon. Mix all together and cook further until the 
apple is stewed to a pulp. Remove the lemon, &c., and the marmalade 
will be ready for use. It should not contain much liquor, especially if 
only a small quantity of water was added for steaming purposes, 

Palermo Pudding 

Prepare a plain mould, dress with clarified butter, and decorate the top 

with quarters of preserved orange and split cherries. Fill with alternate 

layers of stale sponge cake and apple. The latter should be prepared 

without rind or core, and cut very thin. Have ready the following: 3 gills 

milk, 1| oz. castor sugar, two eggs, and three yolks. Mix all together with 

a whisk, flavour with the zest of orange, and pour into the mould. To 

ensure the cake being soaked through with the custard, the latter should 
Vol. II. 82 



170 MENU DISHES 

be poured on gradually. Fasten a piece of buttered paper on the top of 
the mould, and bake in a fairly hot oven. Serve hot, with a sauceboat 
of whipped cream and custard mixed, and flavoured with cura9ao. 

Semolina Pudding 

Place in a saucepan 10 oz. of semolina, 1 pt. of milk, and 4 oz. castor 
sugar. Stir this over the fire until the mixture boils; then work it per- 
fectly smooth with a spoon, and continue working the paste over the stove 
until it ceases to adhere to the sides of the pan; then lift it from the fire 
and gradually mix in 4 oz. fresh butter, 4 eggs, 4 yolks, and ^ gill orange- 
flower water. Dress a pudding mould with butter, fill with the semolina, 
and while so doing sprinkle in some coarse crushed pieces of ratafias. 
Cover the mould with buttered paper; stand this in a saucepan con- 
taining a small quantity of hot water; place on the cover; stand over 
the fire, and steam for one hour. When ready turn the pudding out 
on to a dish, and serve with custard flavoured with orange-flower water. 

Another method of preparing this pudding is to bake it in a shallow 
pie dish. Place in the bottom of the dish a layer of orange marmalade; 
round the border fasten a narrow strip of best puff* paste; notch this 
with the back of a knife; fill in with the prepared mixture, then sprinkle 
the ratafias on top and bake for twenty minutes. 

Vanilla Pudding 

Cream together 4 oz. of fresh butter and an equal quantity of castor 
sugar; beat in six yolks; add the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiflF 
foam; flavour with essence of vanilla, and stir in lightly 3 oz. of flour 
and 1 oz. of corn flour. Dress a fancy-shaped mould with butter; place 
in the bottom a small piece of greased paper; decorate with cherries 
and angelica; pour in sufficient mixture to three-quarters fill; cover 
with paper, and steam for one hour. When ready turn the pudding out 
on to a dish, remove the paper, and serve with a rich vanilla custard. 

Chocolate Pudding 

Prepare a mixture of butter, sugar, and eggs, as for vanilla pudding; 
stir in 1 oz. of melted, unsweetened, block cocoa; add a little vanilla essence, 
and lastly the flour. Dress a plain mould with butter, cover this with 
some fresh-cut filleted almonds; three-quarters fill with the preparation, 
and steam in a covered saucepan. When ready transfer to a glass oi 
silver dish, and serve with chocolate custard, with which some whipped 
whites of egg have been mixed. 

Coffee Pudding 

Use the same mixture and method as given above for chocolate pudding, 
only, instead of using cocoa for flavouring, add coffee essence and a full 
tablespoonful of brandy. Serve hot with custard flavoured with coffee 
and brandy. 



PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 171 

TUTTI-FRUTTI Pudding 

Another very nice-eating sweet is that known as Tutti-Frutti Pudding. 
Cream together 5 oz. fresh butter, 1 oz. of white honey, and 3 oz. castor 
sugar; when these ingredients are beaten to a light creamy substance, 
add 6 yolks, the whites of 5 eggs whipped to a foam, and 4 oz. of 
chopped mixed fruit, consisting of preserved cherries, greengages, apricots, 
and angelica. Stir in lightly 5 oz. of flour, and pour the batter into 
a mould previously buttered and decorated with various coloured fruits. 
Steam for one hour; when ready turn out on a dish, and pour over it 
some clear apricot sauce flavoured with maraschino. 

Ginger Pudding 

Cream together 2 oz. of golden syrup, 4 oz. of fresh butter, and 3 oz. 
castor sugar. Beat in 5 eggs; add | oz. ground ginger, 3 oz. of preserved 
ginger cut into small cubes, and 5 oz. of wheat flour. Dress a plain mould 
with butter and small pieces of preserved ginger; add the mixture, and 
finish by steaming for one hour. Turn out on a dish and serve with 
clear ginger syrup. 

A large variety of puddings may be made by the above methods, 
by simply changing the flavour and serving with either custard or clear 
syrup strongly flavoured with liqueurs, spirits, or other flavourings. 
Special care should be taken with the steaming of these puddings; the 
water should not cover more than one-third of the mould, and on no 
account must it be allowed to boil furiously. Precaution is also necessary 
not to touch the pudding until cooked, as the mixture being so light may 
drop and become heav}?^ if disturbed. 

Amber Pudding 

Take 8 oz. of suet, free from skin, and chop it very fine; pass all 
through a wicker sieve, and mix with it 8 oz. of bread crumbs, and an 
equal quantity of moist sugar. Place these ingredients in a mixing 
bowl; add 8 oz. of orange marmalade, the zest and juice of two lemons, 
and five eggs and three yolks. Mix thoroughly, and transfer to a mould 
previously prepared with clarified butter; cover with paper and steam 
gently for three and a half to four hours. Caution is required in the 
preparation of amber pudding, not to disturb it while being steamed; 
and as it requires thorough cooking, on account of its containing suet 
and marmalade, ascertain whether it is ready for serving by inserting 
the blade of a small knife in the centre. When the knife is removed it 
will be quite dry if the pudding is ready for the table. 

Lemon Sauce for Amber Pudding 

Lemon -flavoured sauce is required for amber pudding. It may be served 
in a sauceboat, or, in the case of small puddings made in dariole moulds, 
poured on to the dish. This sauce should contain the zest of lemon 



172 MENU DISHES 

removed from the fruit in long shreds. This adds to the flavour, and 
improves the appearance. Bring to the boil 3 gills of weak syrup, the 
zest of two lemons, and the juice of one lemon, four bay leaves, and 
a small piece of stick cinnamon. When boiling add 1 oz. of arrowroot 
mixed with the smallest possible quantity of water; bring all to the boil. 
After removing the bay leaves and cinnamon the sauce will be ready for 
serving. 

Princess Pudding 

Prepare a large fancy-shaped charlotte mould, or small dariole moulds, 
with clarified butter; place a piece of greased paper in the bottom and 
sprinkle on top of this a mixture of chopped cherries and preserved melon. 
Weigh down 4 oz. butter, 5 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. wheat flour, 2 oz. 
ground almonds, 1 oz. corn flour, five whole eggs, five yolks, half a liqueur 
glass of maraschino; 4 oz. of preserved cherries and melon cut into small 
cubes. With a light whisk beat the butter and sugar together until both 
these ingredients become light and creamy. Add the eggs and yolks 
gradually, then stir in lightly the other ingredients. The mould or 
moulds should not be more than three-quarters filled with this light 
mixture; cover over with grease-proof paper, and steam in the usual 
way. Serve with a rich custard sauce, flavoured strongly with mara- 
schino and noyau. 

Chestnut Pudding 

Get ready 4 oz. butter, 3 oz. golden syrup warmed, 2 oz. moist sugar, 

3 oz. of preserved chestnuts (niarrons glaces) passed through a wire sieve, 

4 oz. wheat flour, 3 oz. bread crumbs, one liqueur glass of kirsch, three 
eggs, and a little milk. Cream together the butter, sugar, and eggs; add 
the syrup and the other ingredients, and fill in moulds prepared and 
dressed with butter and a few filleted almonds and pieces of preserved 
chestnuts. This pudding will require more time for cooking, and should 
be served with a rich sauce consisting of apricot pulp flavoured with 
kirsch. 

Easfberry Pudding 

Prepare 8 oz. of suet, 6 oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. ground almonds roasted, 
6 oz. moist sugar, 6 oz. best quality raspberry jam, five eggs, and the zest of 
two oranges. Chop the suet and pass it through a wicker sieve; add the 
other ingredients, and mix all together into a medium soft paste. If this 
should be too firm, moisten with milk. Fill into dressed moulds; steam in 
a small quantity of water; and serve along with stewed raspberries. If 
fresh or bottled fruit cannot be obtained, prepare a rich custard and flavour 
with essence of raspberry, and colour with carmine. 

Plain Raspberry Pudding 

Another raspberry pudding, not quite so rich, is made by lining a 
greased mould or basin with a mixture consisting of bread crumbs moist- 
ened with milk, and adding two eggs to each 8 oz. of crumbs. The mould 



PUDDINGS AND SWEP:T.S 173 

is then filled in the centre witli raspberry jam, and another layer of crumb 
mixture placed on top, when the whole may be steamed, or baked in a fairly 
hot oven. When ready for serving, turn the pudding out on to a dish and 
dust with fine castor sugar. 

Bread Crumbs in Puddings 

Bread crumbs may be used largely in the preparation of various kinds 
of puddings. For a plain pudding take a portion of crumbs; sweeten with 
sugar; flavour with lemon, orange, or other flavour as may be required; 
moisten with milk and eggs; force all into a mould or basin dressed with 
fat, and bake or steam until firm, so that the pudding may be turned out 
without breaking. Puddings made with crumbs as suggested and nicely 
flavoured give satisfaction to customers and yield a fair profit. 

Pineapple Pudding 

Pineapple pudding is prepared in a manner slightly different from the 
others already given, but any of the above methods will give satisfaction 
by substituting pineapple flavouring in place of that given in the recipe. 
Prepare a plain charlotte mould with a dressing of clarified butter into 
which a little flour has been mixed. Cover the bottom and sides with thin 
pieces of preserved cubes of pineapple; cover these in turn with a 1-in. layer 
of paste, made by mixing together a portion of bread crumbs with yolks of 
egg and milk. Weigh down into a mixing bowl 4 oz. of butter (previously 
clarified), 3 oz. castor sugar, and 1 oz. of honey; cream these ingredients 
together; beat in four eggs; add 1 liqueur glass of maraschino, and stir in 
lightly 3 oz. of flour and 1 oz. of corn flour. Fill the centre of the mould 
with this preparation, cover with greased paper, and steam until cooked, 
when the pudding will be light and spongy, and may then be turned out of 
the mould. Serve with a rich sauce flavoured with pineapple puree. 

CoBURG Pudding 

For this pudding it is necessary to have some ready -baked currant 
buns; those of the previous day's baking are most suitable. Cut in circular 
slices, place on a dish, sprinkle over them some maraschino, and cover each 
with a thin layer of apricot jam. Dress a plain mould with butter, decorate 
with preserved cherries and angelica, and fill with the prepared slices; the 
mould must then be filled with custard, made by mixing together 1 pt, of 
milk, 3 oz, castor sugar, three eggs, and four yolks. Steam in the usual 
way, and serve with boiled custard flavoured with a split vanilla bean. 

Saxony Pudding 

Prepare 12 oz. of brown bread crumbs, 6 oz. of castor sugar, six eggs, 
^ pt. of whipped cream, some lemon zest, and a little pounded cinnamon. 
Mix the bread crumbs, sugar, the yolks of eggs, whipped cream, the lemon 
and cinnamon together in a basin; then add the whites whipped to a stiff 



174 MENU DISHES 

foam, and set the mixture aside. Dress a plain charlotte mould with but- 
ter; cover this with brown bread crumbs, then spread a large spoonful of 
the preparation at the bottom of the mould, and arrange a layer of small 
bright fresh or preserved cherries upon it. Cover this with more of the 
preparation, and continue with the cherries until the mould is filled. Cover 
with greased paper, place on a baking sheet, and bake for forty minutes. 
When ready turn out on to a dish, and pour over it some clear sauce made 
with cherry pur^e and flavoured with kirsch and noyau. If the sauce is 
not required, cover the pudding with a mixture of cinnamon sugar. 

Apricot Pudding 

For apricot pudding the following ingredients are required: 5 oz. of 
butter, 8 oz. of preserved apricot, 3 gills milk, 1 gill of cream, six large 
eggs, 5 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. of flour. Put the butter, sugar, cream and 
milk into a saucepan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to boil remove 
the pan from the stove and stir in the flour; then put this paste back again 
on the stove, and continue stirring it for three or four minutes. It must 
then be withdrawn, and the six eggs beaten gradually into it. Cut the 
apricot into small pieces, add these to the preparation, and pour into a 
mould previously greased and decorated with pieces of apricot. Steam for 
one hour and forty minutes; turn out and serve with either apricot syrup, 
or rich custard flavoured with kirsch and a little lemon. 

Orange Pudding 

For orange pudding the following ingredients are required: the zest and 
juice of three oranges, | pt. of cream, 1 gill of milk, 4 oz. of crushed rata- 
fias, 5 oz. of bread crumbs, fourteen yolks, four whites, 10 oz. castor sugar, 
and a little powdered cinnamon and nutmeg. Place the ingredients (with 
the exception of the whites) into a mixing bowl, and whisk all together for 
about eight minutes. Whisk the whites to a stiff" foam ; add to the prepara- 
tion; mix all together without overworking, and pour into a pie dish pre- 
viously buttered and prepared with a border of puff" paste placed around the 
edge. Bake in a steady heat for half an hour, and dust with fine sugar 
before sending to table. 

The above recipe will make the foundation for several kinds of pud- 
dings, all that is required being to change the flavouring, and where neces- 
sary to use other crumbs than those made from ratafias. 

French Pudding 

Weigh into a large basin 11 oz. of chopped marrow, 7 oz. of flour, 3 oz. 
bread crumbs, 6 oz. of apricot jam, a little cinnamon sugar, the zest of two 
oranges, 4 oz. chopped apples, 5 oz. of preserved cherries, 5 oz. of chopped 
drained orange and citron peel, 3 oz. castor sugar, a little grated nutmeg 
and mace; five whole eggs, a glass of brandy, and half a pint of cream and 
milk mixed. Mix all the ingredients together, to the consistency usual for 



PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 175 

ordinary suet pudding, and turn into a buttered mould or basin previously 
dusted with flour. Tie the pudding in a cloth, boil for four hours; turn 
out and serve with a light custard sauce (see next chapter). 

OsTEND Pudding 

For Ostend pudding the ingredients required are: 12 oz. of bread and 
cake crumbs mixed, the zest of three lemons, two glasses of madeira, 2 oz. 
of sweet ground almonds, J oz. of ground bitter almonds, and 6 oz. of 
sultanas. Place all into a basin and add a caramel custard made with 
eight yolks, two eggs, h pt. of cream, ^ pt. of milk, 8 oz. of castor 
sugar, with sufficient burnt sugar to flavour. Prepare a greased mould; 
decorate with pieces of preserved orange peel and stoned raisins; till in 
with the above mixture, and steam for about one hour and a half. When 
done turn out on a dish; cover with a rich custard, or arrowroot sauce, and 
serve while hot. 

Cabinet Pudding 

There does not appear to be any set recipe for the preparation of this 
pudding. Sometimes it is made with crumbs of cake or bread made into 
a paste coloured with caramel and mixed with fruit; on the other hand, 
it sometimes consists of pieces of cake soaked in a custard, then moulded 
and steamed. The following method will turn out a satisfactory pudding, 
which may be prepared in large charlotte or fancy-shaped dariole moulds. 
Spread the inside of a mould with butter, and ornament it with pieces 
of preserved cherries, orange peel, and angelica. Fill the mould with 
alternate layers of slices of stale sponge cakes, crushed macaroons, rata- 
fias, currants, and sultanas; then fill up with custard prepared as follows. 
With a whisk mix eight yolks of eggs, one whole egg, 1 pint of milk, 
4 oz. castor sugar, and the zest of one lemon. This custard should 
not be boiled or heated, just mixed together and used at once. Steam the 
pudding in the usual way for one hour and a half, and when done serve 
with rich custard sauce. 

Plain Bread Pudding 

Prepare three whipped whites, eight yolks, the zest of one lemon and 
one orange, 1 pt. of milk, 3 oz. of butter, 7 oz. castor sugar, and 13 oz. of 
bread crumbs. Put the crumbs, milk, yolks, flavouring, and butter together 
into a mixing bowl. When the bread is saturated with the milk, add the 
whipped whites, and transfer the whole to a greased mould and st.am. 
Turn out on a dish and sprinkle over it some roasted sponge-cake crumbs. 
Serve with a leraon-flavoured arrowroot sauce. 

Conservative Pudding 

Place into a bright tinned saucepan 1 lb. raspberries, | lb. red currants, 
and the rind of one lemon, together with 1 gill water and sufficient sugar 
to sweeten, and bring to the boil over a steady fire. Prepare a deep pudding 



176 MENU DISHES 

basin, line it with the crumb of a new tin loaf, having the bread about 
i in. thick. Pour upon this the fruit and juice; allow all to settle; then 
cover with a plate; place a heavy weight on top and store in the larder 
until the next day. Turn out from the basin on to a shallow dish and 
cover with whipped cream. Several varieties of fruit may be used in the 
preparation of this pudding; it makes a nice-eating sweet for hot weather, 
and does not cost much to produce. 

Tapioca Pudding 

Place into a stewpan 10 oz. tapioca, 2 oz. butter, the zest of one lemon, 
together with 1 qt. milk. Bring to the boil; then allow the mixture to 
simmer for twenty minutes until the tapioca is cooked. Withdraw the pan 
from the stove, turn the mixture out into a cold basin, add eight yolks, two 
whipped whites, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and pour into a buttered pie 
dish on which has been laid previously a narrow border of rich short 
paste. Sprinkle over it a little grated nutmeg and bake in a solid oven. 
If desired, this pudding may be steamed in a buttered mould, and served 
with a prepared sauce. Rice, sago, or semolina may be served in the same 
manner. 

NouiLLE Pudding 

Nouille paste as prepared for this pudding is made by mixing into a 
tight dough: flour, yolks, and a small quantity of salt. This is then pinned 
out as thin as possible, allowed to dry partly, then cut up into very thin 
shreds. In this condition it is used as a substitute for macaroni, and 
many nice-eating dishes are made with it either as a sweet, or as a savoury 
with Parmesan cheese. Bring to the boil 1 qt. milk, drop into this the 
amount of nouille required, and allow all to simmer gently; when cooked, 
finish as directed for semolina pudding. It may be that more or less milk 
will be required, but this must be decided at the time of preparing. 

Parmesan Cheese Pudding 

Mix together 4 oz. flour, 4 oz, butter, a little pepper and salt, and 
1 pt. milk; place all into a saucepan and stir the mixture over the fire 
until it boils. Work the batter quickly with a spoon to render it perfectly 
smooth, then add 12 oz. of Parmesan cheese grated, and twelve yolks of 
eggs; whip twelve whites of eggs quite firm and stir these into the pre- 
paration. Fill small or large souffle cases with the mixture, bake for about 
forty minutes, and send to the table as soon as ready. The whites for this 
mixture should be beaten quite firm, and must be gently mixed in, so as 
not to render the pudding heavy. 

Imperial Pudding 

Prepare 2^ oz. castor sugar, S^ oz. butter, 5 oz. flour, 1^ oz. corn flour, 
two large eggs, a pinch of baking powder, essence of vanilla, and a little 
milk. Cream the butter and sugar together; beat in the eggs; add flour 



PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 177 

and corn tlour previously sieved with the powder, then the milk and 
essence. Put two full tablespoonfuls of bright-coloured raspberry jam into 
the bottom of a well-greased pudding basin; pour in the mixture, cover 
with greased paper, and steam for one hour. Serve with custard sauce 
flavoured with raspberry and vanilla. 

Christmas Pudding 

The ingredients are : 12 oz. of sultanas, 10 oz. of sugar, 8 oz. bread 
crumbs, 10 oz. mixed peel shredded, ten eggs, 1| lb. of raisins, 1^ lb. of 
currants, 1^ lb. of finely chopped suet, 4 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of almonds 
blanched, ^ oz. of best mixed spice, a little crushed mace, a little salt, two 
wine glasses of cura(;ao, one glass of brandy, and an equal quantity of 
maraschino or best Jamaica rum, the zest and juice of two lemons, and the 
zest of two oranges. Thoroughly mix all the above together, fill into two 
greased moulds or basins, cover with grease-proof paper, tie a piece of cloth 
over, and cook each for from five to six hours. When ready serve with 
a clear sauce, flavoured with rum and lemon zest. These puddings are 
usually made a considerable time before they are to be used, in which 
case they require reboiling or steaming for about two hours to make them 
hot right through. 

Christmas Plum Pudding, No. 2 

Skin and chop very fine 13 lb. of beef suet, and mix with this 4 lb. 
bread crumbs, 6 lb. flour, 5 lb. soft sugar, 5 lb. orange peel chopped very 
fine, 20 lb. seedless or stoned raisins, 8 lb. currants, 2 lb. almonds chopped 
very fine, and 3 lb. apples chopped into small pieces (about 4 lb. with skins 
and cores). Season with 6 oz. of mixed spice, consisting of- 2^ oz. ground 
cinnamon or cassia, 1 oz. ground coriander, 1 oz. ground ginger, 1 oz. ground 
nutmeg, and ^ oz. ground cloves. Mix into a soft dough with 5 pints eggs 
and 5 pints milk. When half mixed, sprinkle in one bottle best rum, and 
^ bottle maraschino. The mixture is placed in pudding basins, covered 
with greased paper, and cloths tied over, and boiled in the usual way. A 
two-pound pudding takes about three hours to cook, larger sizes requiring 
proportionately longer time. Care must be taken when adding fresh water 
to the boiler that the added water is also boiling or nearly so. The basins 
must be quite filled with the mixture, or there is a danger of water entering 
and making the pudding sodden. 

NoiR Pudding 

Weigh down 6 oz. of chopped suet, 7 oz. of black treacle, 12 oz. bread 
crumbs, 4 oz. com flour, 6 oz. currants, 6 oz. sultanas, 4 oz. of finely chopped 
orange peel. Mix all together and moisten with two eggs and sufficient 
milk to make into a medium stifi" dough. Pour into a basin previously 
greased and lined with roasted bread crumbs; cover with greased paper, 
and steam for two and a half hours. Turn out on a dish; dust with fine 
sugar mixed with an equal quantity of cocoa, or serve with caramel sauce. 

Vol. II. 83 



178 MENU DISHES 



Strawberry Pudding 



Prepare some custard with 5 gills of milk, 2 oz. of sugar, IJ oz. corn 
flour, five yolks, the zest of one lemon, and three bay leaves. When the 
custard boils remove the bay leaves, pour the custard into a greased pie 
dish, and cover with a layer of bright-coloured strawberry jam. Beat three 
whites of eggs to a stiff foam, sweeten to taste, flavour with vanilla, and 
spread this over the custard. Dust with fine sugar, and bake for seven 
to eight minutes in a fairly hot oven. Apple pur^e and other kinds of 
prepared or fresh fruit may be used with advantage for puddings prepared 
with custard and meringue. 

Biscuit Pudding 

Fill a large mould, or some small basins previously buttered, with 
alternate layers of pieces of stale sponge cakes, crushed macaroons, pieces 
of preserved melon, and long shreds of the zest of lemon and orange. Pre- 
pare a custard — not made hot — with 1 pt. of milk, 1 gill of cream, 4 oz. 
castor sugar, four eggs, two yolks, and a little vanilla essence. Pour the 
preparation into the moulds to soak the cake, cover with paper, and steam 
for one hour. Serve hot or cold with custard sauce or with stewed rasp- 
berries and red currants. 

Bread and Butter Pudding 

Fill a greased pie dish with thin slices of buttered bread; sprinkle on 
each layer a few currants, sultanas, and finely chopped lemon peel. Cover 
all with custard as prepared for biscuit pudding, and when the bread is 
saturated with the preparation bake for thirty minutes in a hot oven. 
Dust when ready with fine sugar. This may be served hot, or when cold 
cut out of the dish and sold in small portions. 

Slices of bun, brioche, or savarin, toasted and covered each side with 
fresh butter, and baked with custard, make a rich -eating pudding, and 
may be prepared at a small cost. 

Plain Plum Pudding 

Weigh down 1 lb. of flour, 4 oz. of bread crumbs, and 12 oz. of finely 
chopped suet. Mix these together, with the zest of two lemons and suffi- 
cient water to make all into a medium stiff" dough. Work into this 1 lb. of 
stoned raisins. Place the mixture in a buttered basin, cover with greased 
paper and cloth; boil a pan of water, stand the pudding in it and boil for 
three hours. Turn out on a dish, dust with fine sugar, and serve with 
custard. Although a fair proportion of suet is added to the above mixture, 
the pudding will not be light unless the suet is carefully prepared. It 
must be free from skin or gristle, and before being chopped it should be 
shaved into flakes, and this will render the pudding less liable to become 
heavy and unsatisfactory. 



SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 179 

Rice and Stewed Fruit 

In many catering establishments it is the usual practice to keep a pan 
of cold rice prepared for moulding and serving with various kinds of 
stewed fruit. The process of preparation is simple and will give satis- 
faction if the following directions are adhered to. Wash thoroughly the 
rice intended for boiling; place this in a stewpan and add sufficient milk 
and water to cover. Add a few bay leaves, a piece of stick cinnamon, some 
crushed mace, the zest of one or two lemons, and bring all to the boil. 
More water and milk may be required before the rice is cooked, but too 
much will make it "sloppy" and unsuitable for the purpose required. 
When ready sweeten to taste, add a little cream or some fresh butter, and 
transfer to a basin to cool, ready for use. 

To mould the rice when preparing portions for one or more persons, 
press the quantity required into a mould or basin, turn this Moulding 
out on a dish, and arrange the portion of stewed fruit at the Boiled Rice, 
side. 

College Pudding 

Put into a basin 12 oz. of currants, 10 oz. castor sugar, 14 oz. of bread 
crumbs, 9 oz. mixed peel chopped small, 10 oz. of suet, and 10 oz. of marrow, 
both chopped and passed through a wicker sieve. Moisten with four or 
five large eggs, 1 gill of sherry, 1 gill of brandy. Add the zest of two 
lemons; bake or steam in buttered moulds, and serve with Madeira sauce. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 

SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 

Madeira Sauce 

Put into a stewpan 1 gill of madeira, ^ gill of brandy, a full tablespoon ful 
of castor sugar, five yolks, and two eggs. Stand the pan over a slow fire, 
and whisk the mixture until it becomes quite light; but it should not be 
made very hot. Serve at once by pouring part over the pudding, and send 
the remainder to table in a sauceboat. 

Apricot Sauce 

Place in a stewpan | pt. of stock syrup (see vol. i, p. 334), the rind and 
juice of one lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon, five bay leaves, and 2 oz. 
of sweet ground almonds. Bring to the boil; then add | pt. of water 
mixed with 2 full tablespoonfuls of arrowroot. Allow all to simmer for 
a few minutes, then remove from the stove, strain through a hair sieve, 
add one liqueur glass of noyau, and serve in a sauceboat. 

The above mixture and method of preparation will serve as the 



180 MENU DISHES 

foundation of many kinds of fruit sauces. With this a rich rum sauce 
may be prepared for Christmas Pudding; flavour with rum and brandy 
just before sending to the table. 

Rich Vanilla Sauce 

Mix together 1 pt. of milk, four yolks, three eggs, 3 oz. of castor 
sugar, half a vanilla bean; place all into a stewpan over the stove, and 
keep well stirred until the mixture is thick enough to coat the spoon. 
Remove at once to a cold pan; add ^ pt. of cream, remove the vanilla 
bean, and the custard will be ready for serving. 

Plain Custard 

Bring to the boil 1 pt. of milk with 3 oz. of sugar, remove from the 
stove and pour the hot milk upon a mixture consisting of four yolks, 
mixed with | oz. of corn flour. Whisk all together, return again to the 
stove, and bring to the boil. This custard may be served with many 
kinds of pud;^!ngs, flavoured as required, and will give satisfaction if 
made quite sinoijth and free from lumps. 

Apple Sauce 

Peel the number of apples recjuired, cut them into quarters, and place 
them in a stewpan with some weak stock syrup, a few cloves, and a 
little lemon zest. Bring all to the boil, and when the fruit is cooked, 
take them out of the syrup, thicken the latter with a little arrowroot, 
then return the apples, cook them for a few minutes longer. Strain all 
through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, and serve while hot. 

Orange Sauce 

Place into a saucepan 1 pt. of water mixed with li oz. of arrowroot, 
add the zest of three oranges, the juice of two (without pips), sufiicient 
lump sugar to sweeten, and bring all to the boil. Strain the sauce through 
a tammy and serve hot. 

Enough has been said to give a general idea of the method of pre- 
paring various sauces for puddings. Using these as a basis to work upon, 
and with the various fruits and other flavouring material at hand, the 
cook or confectioner need never be at a loss to prepare suitable sauces 
for all kinds of sweets, either for private or for public functions. 



FOUR NOTABLE IRISH BAKERS 

George F. Inglis, born in Dublin of Scotch parents and edu- 
cated in Glasgow, was for a time in the drapery trade in Dublin, 
but in 1883 joined his brother in the baking firm of Inglis & Co. 
in Belfast. The firm was converted into a private limited company 
in 1886, and was floated as a public company in 1894, Mr. Inglis 
having been since then managing director. He has been President 
of the Belfast Master Bakers' Association since its formation in 
1901, and he was first President of the Irish National Master 
Bakers' Association. He has also served as President of the 
North of Ireland Grain and Flour Trade Association. 

Hugh Kennedy was born at Dublin in 1864, and was trained 
in a solicitor's and commercial office. In 1885 he succeeded his 
father as proprietor of an old-established bakery business in his 
native city. He is Treasurer of the Irish Master Bakers' Associa- 
tion, and has been a Member of Council of the National Association 
of Master Bakers. 

George Baine, born in Larne in 1868, served an apprenticeship 
there as a baker, and afterwards joined his brother in a baking 
business. In 1894 he established a business of his own in Larne, 
and from 1902 to 1908 he was managing director of the business of 
Messrs. Wilson & Strain, Belfast. He has been very successful in 
the competitions at the London Exhibition. He was for several 
years Secretary of the Belfast Master Bakers' Association, and 
was one of the most active founders of the Irish National Master 
Bakers' Association. He takes a great interest in Technical 
Education. 

Peter Lyons, born in Drogheda as a master baker's son, 
served an apprenticeship as a baker in Dublin, and in 1885 re- 
turned to Drogheda, where he bought a baking business, which 
is now well equipped and flourishing. He has been a member 
of the National Association of Master Bakers almost since its 
foundation, and he took a leading part in establishing the Irish 
National Master Bakers' Association. He is an expert in judging 
horses. 



■A INF 




G. F. INGLIS 

(Belfast) 



H. KENNEDY 

(Dublin) 




GEORGE BAINE 

(Belfast) 



1'. LYONS 
(Drogheda) 



FOUR NOTABLE IRISH BAKERS 



WINE CUPS AND ICED LIGHT REFRESHMENTS 181 

CHAPTER XXXIX 

WINE CUPS AND ICED LIGHT REFEESHMENTS 

Wine cups are extremely popular for wedding breakfasts, receptions, 
ball suppers, luncheons, and, in fact, all sorts of parties. They consist 
of various wines flavoured with liqueurs, and spirits, slightly sweetened, 
reduced with mineral waters, and iced for at least one hour before being 

served at table. 

Claret Cup 

2 bottles good sound claret. 

2 bottles soda water. 

2 bottles seltzer water. 

2 bottles lemonade. 

2 oz. castor sugar or crushed sugar candy. 

A small bunch of balm and borage. 

12 thin slices cucumber or the rind of same. 

4 lemons sliced. 

1 wine glass brandy or sherry. 

About 2 lb. clean rough broken ice. 

Place all the ingredients into a large bowl or pan. Stir all together, 
and cover over for one hour. Strain through a muslin or hair sieve into 
large glass jugs, and serve from these. Many never put the ice inside, 
but ice only by standing it in ice tubs. 

The following is another recipe for a claret cup: One bottle of claret, 

one bottle of seltzer water, one bottle of soda water, a little lump 

sugar, a piece of cucumber, the rind of one orange, one lemon cut into 

slices, a small bunch of balm and borage. Mix all together, ice for one 

hour, strain, and, before serving, add one liqueur glass of brandy, and 

one of cura9ao. 

Hock Cup 

2 bottles hock. 

2 bottles seltzer water. 

2 bottles soda water. 

4 lemons sliced. 

A bunch of balm and borage. 

4 oz. bruised sugar candy. 

One wine glass cura9ao. 

About 2 lb. clean rough ice. 

Put all the ingredients together into a large bowl, stir, cover up, and 
stand for one hour. Strain, and serve from glass jugs. 

Moselle Cup 

For this cup use the following, and prepare in the usual manner: 
One bottle of sparkling Moselle, one bottle seltzer water, one bottle of 



182 LIGHT REFRESHMENTS 

Apollinaris water, a little balm and borage, two lemons sliced, a piece of 
cucumber, a little sugar or stock syrup, one wine glass of brandy. 

Burgundy Cup 

Ingredients: One bottle of red Burgundy, one quart bottle of seltzer 
water, a bunch of balm and borage, the rind and juice of one orange, the 
rind of one lemon, a few slices of cucumber, three bay leaves, a little 
syrup, one wine glass of cura9ao, and one small piece of stick cinnamon. 
Prepare in the usual way and strain through a piece of muslin. 

Badminton Cup 

2 bottles red Burgundy. 

2 bottles soda water. 

2 bottles seltzer water. 

The juice of 4 oranges. 

4 oz. bruised sugar candy. 

A bunch of balm and borage. 

A sprig of verbena. 

One glass maraschino. 

A pinch of ground nutmegs and cloves. 

About 2 lb. clean rough ice. 

12 slices cucumber or the rind of same. 

Place all the ingredients into a large bowl or pan. Stir up, and cover 
for one hour; strain through a muslin or hair sieve into glass jugs, and 
serve. 

Loving Cup 

1 bottle brandy. 

^ pt. orange juice. 

The rind of 4 oranges rubbed on loaf sugar. 

The juice of 4 lemons. 

1 qt. water. 

^ lb. castor sugar or bruised sugar candy. 

2 lb. rough ice. 

Stir all together. Cover and stand for one hour in a bowl, and serve in 
a loving cup. 

Champagne Cup 

2 bottles champagne. 

2 bottles seltzer water. 

2 bottles soda water. 

2 oranges and 2 lemons shced. 

About ^ lb. pineapple, torn off with a silver-plated fork. 

A bunch of borage. 

\ lb. bruised sugar candy. 

2 lb. broken rough ice. 



WINE CUPS AND ICED LIGHT EEFRESHMENTS 183 

Mix all together in a bowl, and stand for two hours. Strain, and serve 
in glass jugs. 

Another champagne-cup recipe is as follows. Into a large jug or 
decanter put one bottle of champagne, one bottle of soda, and one bottle 
of seltzer water, one lemon sliced, a small bunch of mixed borage and 
balm, a few cubes of sugar, and a very small piece of cucumber. Stand 
the vessel on a bed of rough ice, or better still, in an ice bucket for one 
hour; then strain through a piece of muslin, and it is ready for serving. 

Cider Cup 

2 bottles cider. 
, 2 bottles seltzer. 
2 bottles lemonade. 
A bunch of balm and borage. 
4 oz. bruised sugar candy. 

1 glass brandy. 

2 sliced oranges. 

2 lb. clean rough ice. 

Stir all together, and stand for one hour. Strain into glass jugs, and 
serve. 

The following is another cider- cup recipe. Into a covered jug place 
3 pints of cider, 1 pint bottle* of seltzer water, 1 pint bottle of Apollinaris 
water, a little borage, the rind of one orange, the rind and juice of one 
lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon, a little syrup, and a little brandy. Stand 
the jug in ice, and finish in the usual manner. 

Beeei Cup 

Into a jug pour 1 qt. ot stout, 1 pt. of old ale, a little syrup, a small 
quantity of grated nutmeg, a piece of stick cinnamon, a few bay leaves, 
and a small piece of ginger. Finish in the usual manner, and serve in 
tumblers. 

There are several other kinds of wine, spirit, and fruit cups, such as 
Perry Cup, Chablis Cup, Pineapple Cup, Punch Cup, Gin 
Cup, and Chianti Cup, which are prepared in much the same 
manner, mixed with mineral waters, and strengthened with liqueurs and 
spirits. 

Lemonade 

4 qt. water. 
12 good-sized lemons. 
1 pt. simple syrup. 

Rub the zest of six of the lemons on ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and scrape the 
same. Add to the water or juice; also 2 lb. of clean, broken, rough ice 
added. After all the ingredients have been strained through a muslin 
or hair sieve, very good lemonade is obtained, which is generally appre- 
ciated. Serve up in glass jugs. 



184 LIGHT KEFRESHMENTS 

Orangeade 

Proceed as directed for lemonade, using the zest and juice of twelve, 

oranges and four lemons, and a little less sugar than for the lemonade. 

. , Many other fruitades can be made in the same way 

Other Fruitades. . . '' -^ 

when m season. 

Iced Coffee 

Make a strong coffee of 1 lb. of freshly ground Mocha coffee, made with 
6 pt. of cold water, clarified and strained through a muslin or flannel bag. 
When cold add 1^ pt. simple syrup, 1| pt. new milk, and 2 pt. double 
cream, whipped. Put it into a freezer, and work up until it is thick, 
and serve up in small glasses or cups. 



CHAPTER XL 

SANDWICHES AND SAVOURY EOLLS 

Among light refreshments generally served at wedding receptions, 
dances, &c., sandwiches and petits pains occupy a foremost position. 




Fig. 143.— Bread-cutting Machine 



Sandwiches and This has not always been the case. Formerly at wedding 
Petits Pains. receptions the menu consisted of roast joints, poultry, game, 

&c., with large sweets. During the last two decades a change has come 
about, and to meet this the caterer should supply articles that are small 
and tasty, which may be served with spoon and fork from the buffet table. 



SANDWICHES AND SAVOUEY ROLLS 185 

The following list of sandwiches and small rolls (petits pains) will supply 
a large variety which will be found useful for the purpose mentioned. 

Bread intended for cutting into sandwiches should be a day old, and 
to save waste and time it should be baked in long 4-lb.-loaf tins. The 
number to be cut from each loaf depends on the size o^ c o • t, 
the sandwiches required. The usual number is six dozen, 
which yields a moderately large sandwich such as required at most recep- 
tions, dances, and whist drives. Sandwich-cutting is usually a long and 
tedious job, and does not appear to give such good returns as are obtained 
from other articles supplied for such functions. It saves time to have the 
butter in a condition suitable for spreading on the bread with ease and 
without using more than necessary. To prepare this take the butter 
required, soften Mnth the hand, then beat it with a whisk until it becomes 
quite light of a creamy consistence. An efficient bread-cutting machine 
(fig. 143) is a great assistance in this kind of work. 

Mustard-and-Cress Sandwiches 

For hand-cut sandwiches use a long, thin, sharp knife. Cut from the 
loaf the top crust, that from the sides, also from the right-hand end; leave 
only the left-hand crust, against which the hand should be placed while 
keeping the loaf in position. Butter the bread, then cut a thin slice length- 
ways of the loaf, and continue until the loaf is used up. Lay all the slices 
side by side upon the board. Take some mustard and cress (previously 
washed, picked, and dried upon a cloth), and sprinkle this on top of half 
the number of slices of buttered bread. On top of the cress drop some 
chopped hard-boiled eggs, add some mixed seasoning made with salt and 
white and cayenne pepper. Cover each prepared slice of bread with those 
left plain, press them together lightly with the hand, pile one on top of 
another, then trim, and cut into plain or fancy shapes as required. When 
dishing up the sandwiches, place these in small heaps on a dish covered 
with a fancy paper or serviette, and cover entirely with a damp cloth until 
required for the table. When dishing the sandwiches some cooks prefer to 
arrange them so that one overlaps the other. This may appear neater than 
the method of heaping them on the dish, but the sandwiches dry very 
quickly when so exposed to the air, and are soon unpalatable. 

Cucumber Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Concombres 

Remove the skin from a fresh cucumber, and cut it into thin slices. Lay 
them in a shallow dish, sprinkle some seasoning over them, and partly cover 
with vinegar. Allow the cucumber to remain in the vinegar for one hour, 
then remove and drain on a cloth ready for laying on the buttered bread. 
Prepare some slices of bread and butter as already described, and lay 
these in position. Use half of them only for covering with cucumber, 
then sprinkle on them some white pepper, and cover with the plain slices. 
Finish as directed for mustard-and-cress sandwiches. Some lemon juice or 
a little white wine may be added to the butter to sharpen the flavour. 

Vol. II. 84 



186 LIGHT REFRESHMENTS 

Tomato Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Tomates 

Prepare some sound English tomatoes as follows. Remove the stalks, 
steep the fruit in boiling water for a few moments, then remove and peel 
off the skins without cutting the tomatoes. With a sharp knife cut the 
tomatoes into thin slices and lay them in a deep dish with some seasoning, 
a little vinegar, and a few slices of Spanish onion. Drain the tomatoes on 
a cloth and remove the onion; prepare the slices of bread and butter, and 
finish in the same manner as cucumber sandwiches. Some chopped parsley 
may be added to these sandwiches mixed with the butter, or sprinkled over 
the fruit. 

Ham Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Jambon 

These sandwiches are often spoiled by using ham of inferior quality; 
otherwise they are probably the most popular sandwiches. Cut some very 
thin slices from an English ham, and lay these on slices of buttered bread, 
the butter containing a little mustard. Cover with plain slices of buttered 
bread, press together, and cut into oblong, diamond, or square shapes. 

Potted ham may be used for these sandwiches. Trimmings cut off the 
ham bone, and pounded with a little stock, then passed through a fine wire 
sieve, make suitable potted meat for sandwiches. Before using add some 
fresh butter, also a little grated nutmeg and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Spread this on the bread, cover each prepared slice of bread with one that 
is not buttered, and finish as required. 

Tongue Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Langue 

Prepare these sandwiches by placing between two layers of buttered 
bread very thin slices of ox tongue. Pressed tongues are more economical 
for this purpose than fresh tongues, as they cut to better advantage. 
Before covering each layer of meat add a little mixed mustard, or if pre- 
ferred, the mustard may be mixed with the butter. 

Smoked Salmon Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Saumon Fum6 

It is essential to have the salmon sliced very thin for this purpose. Use 
as directed for tongue sandwiches without mustard; trim, and cut into small 
oblong pieces. Fresh salmon, pounded with some mayonnaise sauce (see 
vol. ii, p. 93), seasoned with cayenne pepper, and passed through a fine 
wire sieve, is useful for making choice fish sandwiches. By adding suf- 
ficient butter to this it will spread more easily, and no butter need be 
previously spread on the bread. 

Beef Sandwiches — Sandwichs de B(euf 

Thin slices of pressed or roast beef may be used for these sandwiches, 
but usually potted beef is employed, and when this has been carefully pre- 
pared and flavoured a nice-eating sandwich is obtained. When preparing 
the sandwiches with thin slices of roast beef, mix some mustard and a 



SANDWICHES AND SAVOURY ROLLS 187 

little finely-chopped horse radish with the butter used to butter the bread. 
Neither of these need be added when using pressed beef, as this is, or should 
be, already richly flavoured with seasoning and spices. 

Potted Beef 

Potted beef is prepared by placing into a stewpan some finely-cut pieces 
of gravy beef or buttock steak, a few bay leavts, some stock, and a little 
butter, and allowing all to simmer on the stove until the meat is cooked 
and the liquor reduced to a very small quantity. At the same time suf- 
ficient moisture must be left in the pan to prevent the beef becoming dry. 
Drain off what gravy is left in the pan, remove the bay leaves, turn the 
meat into a mortar, and pound until quite soft. Pass all through a sieve, 
return again to the mortar, add some butter, the gravy left from the boiling, 
a little mace, some grated nutmeg; colour and season to taste, and after 
mixing thoroughly transfer to a bowl, when it will be ready either for 
making into sandwiches or for potting. 

Potted Veal-and-Ham Sandwiches 

Potted veal and ham makes rich-eating sandwiches, and is worth the 
extra expense incurred in the preparation. Place into a stewpan 2 lb. of 
fillet of veal and 1 lb. of gammon of ham, cut into small pieces; add a little 
butter, some stock, a few bay leaves, and a little mace, and allow to simmer 
gently until the meat is tender. At this stage drain off the liquor and 
further reduce it on the stove; while this is proceeding pound the meat in 
the mortar and pass all through a sieve. Place the pounded meat in the 
mortar, then add the gravy, which, by the way, should be cold. Add the 
necessary quantity of fresh butter, some seasoning, and a little grated nut. 
meg, and mix all together with the pestle. This preparation will then be 
ready for spreading and making into sandwiches. There should be very 
little stock with the meat while stewing, and when care is taken in the 
cooking there will not be much left to be reduced on the fire after the meat 
is removed. 

Chicken Sandwiches— Sandwichs de Poulet 

Spread some slices of bread with a mixture of butter and supreme sauce 
(see vol. ii, p. 87). Sandwich these together with pieces of boiled chicken 
cut thin, and seasoned with salt, cayenne, and white pepper. Trim, cut as 
required, dish up, and ornament with pieces of watercress or parsley. 

Chesterfield Sandwiches 

Place on the board the required number of buttered slices of bread. 
On half the number sprinkle some finely-chopped boiled fowl, also some 
gherkins cut or chopped very small; throw some seasoning over them; 
place the plain slices of bread on to those which are covered with the 
chicken, and finish as required. 



188 LIGHT REFRESHMENTS 

Fowl and Mushroom Sandwiches 

A mixture of fowl and button mushrooms chopped very small, and 
mixed with some fairly stiff supreme sauce, makes a very satisfactory 
sandwich. Little sauce is required to bind the chopped fowl for spreading 
on the bread; if too much is used it will not only sodden the bread but so 
spoil the appearance of the sandwiches. Veal may be added to the pre- 
paration. This mixes readily with the fowl, and slightly reduces the cost. 
Cook some fillet of veal in a little stock, and remove all skin before chop- 
ping. This may then be mixed with the other ingredients. As a very 
cheap addition to fowl for sandwich purposes, boiled rabbit — Ostend for 
choice — may be used. 

FoiE Gras Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Foie Gras 

For these sandwiches it is not necessary to use foie gras of best quality, 
as this would be too expensive. Potted foie gras, such as is usually sold in 
glass jars and tins, will give satisfaction, and if necessary, this may be mixed 
with some cooked liver previously pounded and passed through a sieve. 
Remove the foie gras from the jar, turn into the mortar, add some butter, 
season to taste, mix thoroughly, then use as directed for potted beef 
sandwiches. 

Sardine Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Sardines 

These sandwiches may be prepared with potted sardines and herring 
mixed, or as follows. Prepare some buttered slices of bread, and cover them 
with split sardines from which the bones and skins have been removed. 
Cover these with other slices of bread on which has been spread a mixture 
of butter, finely chopped parsley, and a veiy little onion, with a few drops 
of lemon juice or vinegar. Press all together lightly, cut oblong shape, and 
dish with pieces of parsley. 

Anchovy Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Anchois 

These sandwiches are prepared as those referred to above, by substi- 
tuting anchovy for the sardines. As the flavour of this kind of fish is 
often too pronounced for many tastes, better results are obtained by 
sandwiching the bread with potted anchovy instead of the whole fish. If 
the latter is used, spread a thin layer of mustard and cress between the 
buttered bread while adding the split anchovies. This salad may also be 
added to the sardine sandwiches, as it greatly improves their appearance 
and also makes them more palatable. 

Lobster Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Homard 

Remove the meat from a hen lobster and pound this to a very smooth 
paste with a little anchovy essence and about 10 oz. of fresh butter. Season 
with cayenne; add some grated nutmeg, and pass all through a fine sieve. 
It is then ready for use. When time permits, the flavour of this fish may 
be improved by adding some essence obtained from the lobster shells as 



SANDWICHES AND SAVOURY ROLLS 189 

follows. Chop the shells and claws together; put them into a stewpan with 
a little stock; allow all to simmer on the stove and reduce to obtain the 
essence; this, by the way, should be added when quite cold. 

Shrimp Sandwiches — Sandwichs de Crevette 

Pound some tinned or fresh -picked shrimps to a smooth paste, with 
some fresh butter, a little cayenne, anchovy essence, and a small portion 
of fish essence obtained from bones and lobster shells. Colour with some 
pounded coral or with a little carmine, and place a thin layer between the 
slices of buttered bread. Another kind of sandwich may be prepared by 
using whole shrimps for sandwiching. These make very nice sandwiches, 
and may be further improved with mustard and cress. 

Petit Pain de Foie Gras 

Prepare some small brioche fingers, 2^ in. (see Brioche Paste, vol. i, 
p. 313); these should have a rich glazed appearance, which is obtained by 
washing the paste twice with egg and baking in a moderately hot oven. 
Split down the centre, and fill in with a nice layer of potted foie gras; dish 
up on an entree dish and decorate with chopped parsley. Various kinds 
of potted meat, poultry, game, and fish may be used for filling purposes. 
These meats when cut or chopped small may be mixed with some suitable 
sauce made fairly stiff". 

Chicken Rolls — Petits Pains de Volaille 

Prepare some small oblong rolls, 3 by IJ in., with rich brioche paste 
having each end of the roll square, and not rounded as for fingers. With a 
sharp knife make an incision on the top of each 2 by 1 in., and hollow this 
out, thereby forming a small case. Prepare some stiff white sauce (see vol. 
ii, p. 82); add to this some wdiite pieces of chicken cut very small, some 
chopped button mushrooms, and a little truffle. When it is quite cold use 
this preparation for filling the brioche cases, and decorate with chopped 
aspic jelly and truffle. Serve up on papered dishes, and ornament with 
mustard and cress, or parsley. 

Lobster Rolls — Petits Pains de Homard 

Prepare some small cases as for chicken rolls ; fill with a mixture of 
lobster sauce (see vol. ii, p. 83), to which has been added some finely chopped 
lobster and shrimps. Cover with aspic jelly, place in the centre some 
powdered coral, and serve on fine salad. 

Shrimp Rolls — Petits Pains aux Crevettes 

Mix some picked shrimps with sufficient shrimp sauce to bind all 
together. Have ready some small finger-shaped rolls, made either with 
brioche or from bread dough containing milk; make an incision down the 
centre, and fill with the preparation. 



190 OUTSIDE CATERING 

Salmon Rolls — Petits Pains de Saumon 

Choice salmon rolls may be prepared by filling some small cases, made 
with bread dough, with a mixture consisting of chopped salmon, tarragon, 
chervil, and mayonnaise sauce (see vol. ii, p. 82). 

In addition to brioche and bread dough being used for the preparation 
of these finger rolls and small cases, choice sandwiches may be made by 
using cream sandwich batons (see vol. i, p. 319). These eat nice and short, 
and are not only serviceable for the buffet table, but may also be served on 
the counter. Those fillings mentioned above for the petits pains, also those 
referred to for the preparation of sandwiches, may be used for serving in 
the split scones. 

Chicken Rissoles 

Very dainty and choice dishes suitable for serving with petits pains and 
sandwiches may be made in the shape of rissoles. Remove all bone and 
skin from some pieces of boiled chicken, chop the meat very small, add 
some pieces of ham, together with some button mushrooms, and mix with 
white sauce made with chicken stock. It is necessary to have the sauce 
made fairly stiflf, so that when it is turned out on to a flat tray and is 
cooled, it sets firm and is easily shaped. Divide the paste into very small 
pieces, about twice the size of a walnut ; drop these on some bread crumbs ; 
shape into lengths about 2 in., and dip each into a mixtiire of beaten eggs, 
and roll upon some bread crumbs. Have ready some very hot clear fat and 
fry the rissoles to a light golden colour. Dish up and serve with plain or 
fried parsley. Another style of shaping is by rolling the various pieces in 
the shape of a cone, and finishing in the fat as for rissoles. 

When a variety of sandwiches are supplied at any function it serves 
to indicate the kind if the various sorts are of different shapes; but as 
round or oval shapes are wasteful in cutting, the shapes used must follow 
those possible with straight lines. Thus some may be square, some oblong, 
and some triangular. The varieties can be indicated by little flags on 
which the names are neatly written, or by more expensive and substantial 
bannerettes of silk or silver, but very small. 



CHAPTER XLI 

THE CONFECTIONER-CATERER 

Some confectioners and restaurateurs make outdoor catering a special 
business and give much more care and attention to that than to ordinary 
shop trade, but even when energy is not specially concentrated on this 
Outdoor Catering a branch it is necessary, if it is to be made profitable, that 
Special Business. j^ should be Specialized as much as possible and kept 
distinct from ordinary shop and customer business. It is entirely doubtful 



THE CONFECTIONER-CATEIiEIt 191 

if any substantial profit is made by those who obtain small outdoor orders 
at long intervals, who have to hire all or nearly all the plant, and to depend 
entirely on a staff engaged only for the occasion. Work of this sort entails 
an enormous amount of trouble and worry, and for want of practice and ex- 
perience, and inasmuch as everything has to depend on thought and memory 
and nothing on routine, there is always the danger of troubles and hitches 
arising at critical moments, the effect of which is to spoil all the work and 
care expended in other directions and to leave on the guests an impression 
of failure more intense than the little lapses may justify. When there is 
a constant and considerable catering trade being done, on the other hand, it 
is possible to organize a special department for this work, with a qualified 
manager to attend properly to it, and much of the preparation for func- 
tions becomes then a matter of routine and the danger of mistakes is 
reduced to a minimum. When this branch is considerable, it is also 
possible to keep a large quantity of the necessary plant, the hire of 
which otherwise absorbs the greater part of the gross profit. There is 
a tendency amongst confectioners to take up this branch Folly of Cheap 
of the business very lightly and to make extraordinary Estimates, 
sacrifices to secure orders; offering for work at a price that does not 
pay, in the hope that a business may be established that will ultimately 
be very profitable. This hope is very often frustrated, and a business 
started on low prices remains a low-price business, in which it is either 
impossible to make reasonable profits or to establish a reputation for 
quality. The caterer in the matter of price is often sorely tempted. 
People who entertain are generally more anxious to be grand than to be 
generous. It is quite a common practice for people getting up either 
a public or private function to obtain prices from several caterers, and 
to use the knowledge of the prices from one as a basis for beating 
down the prices of the others. The unfortunate man who ultimately 
obtains an order of this sort endeavours to make ends meet by econo- 
mizing in all directions, and succeeds often enough in displeasing every- 
one. The hostess, if everything is not as it should be, is careful to let 
the guests know that Mr. So-and-So, the caterer, is doing the work, 
and that he is responsible for all shortcomings, but she Meanness of 
is not so careful to let her guests know that the price she Entertainers, 
is paying is ridiculously small. The caterer in consequence is placed 
in a bad light before a great many people, with no chance of defence, 
and his cheap contract brings him no profit on its own account and 
destroys his chance of getting orders afterwards from those who are 
guests on that occasion. It is easy to explain away a fault in bread 
on occasions, or account for a defect in confectionery, but a set function 
of any kind is in such a glaring light that mistakes or faults however 
small are not readily forgotten or forgiven. 

In making an estimate for outside work there is a tendency to negl'^-ct 
some items which ought always to be charged in estimates, even H tne 
circumstances are such that they do not actually require to be paid for 



192 OUTSIDE CATERING 

at the moment. Thus, because a horse and van are kept for other purposes. 
Calculate Cost it is assumed that the cartage for catering costs nolhmg, 
of Transit. 13^^ this item, as well as the share of the vanman's time, 

especially if that is considerable, ought to be allowed for in the price 
quoted. Again, when a caterer has accumulated a large quantity of 
valuable " hire " he ought to allow in his estimate for the loan of this 
as a separate item from cost of material, as well as allowing a definite 
percentage for breakages and wear and tear. This may appear a counsel 
of perfection in view of the cutting prices now prevailing in catering 
work, but it is doubtful if it is worth doing at all unless all these items are 
allowed for. The capital required to procure a large plant and the break- 
ages and losses entitle the caterer to a fair profit on this account alone, 
apart from the work done. 

There is no branch of the business in which quality is so much 
appreciated and in which it brings so good a return as in catering. 
This is true particularly of those functions for which a good price is 
charged and the guests are habituated to well-cooked meals, but even 
within the limits of cheap functions the best quality possible at the price 
Need of should be supplied and the most careful service given. 

Good Service. Caterers doing a steady business always keep a manager 
to see to all the details of the work, apart from the head waiter, whose 
business is to attend to the staff and the service, but whenever possible 
it is better that the master himself should attend at the commencement 
of the function or for that matter wait all through. Whether the master 
is himself an expert or not does not make so much difference as long as the 
staff" is efficient, but customers recognize his presence as the real indication 
of his desire to please, and are themselves in all the better mood to be 
satisfied because of this courtesy. The waiters and attendants are then 
more alert and anxious to please, and should any little trouble arise the 
master can at once take steps to overcome it, whereas even a manager 
might hesitate if a question of expense were to arise, and would perhaps 
incline to let matters take their course rather than incur extra expense 
to set them right. But should a difficulty arise that cannot be mended, 
a word of explanation and apology from the master at the moment is 
always appreciated to an infinitely greater degree than an explanation 
c Pre- ^^^ a-pology fi'om a man in charge, and then a belated 

fer Attention apology afterwards by letter from the master, who has 
of Principals. ^j^^ ^^ confess that his knowledge of the trouble is only 
secondhand. The head waiter should be a man of good manners and 
presentable appearance, and above all he should be sober in his habits. 
Whenever the function is on profitable lines he should be given full 
control of the service staff", and his instructions as to procedure should 
be quite clear and definite; then when he has control he has also to accept 
responsibility. It is better, of course, when the caterer is himself an expert 
at the work and is capable of directing everything personally, but even 
when that is the case it is as well that the head waiter should be held 



THE CONFECTIONER-CATERER 193 

responsible for the work that properly comes under his control, and such 
instructions as he is to be given should be quite definite before the function 
starts. This advice is given to prevent the clashing of instructions while 
the work is in progress, for a very little alteration of arrangement or a 
conflict of instructions is sufficient to spoil a scheme, which above all things 
should run smoothly. At the same time the caterer is better if he is not 
too much under the control of his own head waiter, as sometimes happens, 
but knows the business well enough to give instructions and to see that 
they are carried out, as head waiters with too much power and practically 
no financial responsibility are inclined at times to have extravagant 
notions as to service, &c., and may readily make functions that should 
show a reasonable profit quite unremunerative. 

There is necessarily some diversity of opinion as to the size of staff* 
to be employed for different functions. So far as table attendants are 

concerned, the general rule prevails that the better the „ 

'. , V ^ , 1 r. ., Staff Required, 

price obtamed the more generous can the scale ot atten- 
dance be. For a cold collation at say about 2s. or 2s. 6d. per head, in 
marquees or other temporary structures, one smart waiter should be 
capable of attending to about twenty people; if the price obtained is 
not more say than Is. Qd., it is better to employ only waitresses, in 
charge of one or two smart waiters. As a rule, after the function is 
over, the waitresses, as part of their duties, assist in washing up and 
packing the hire. Dressed in neat black dresses, with white aprons and 
caps, waitresses give an air of lightness and brightness to a function 
that to the majority of people is more pleasing than the effect produced 
by waiter attendants, and waitresses are generally more obliging to guests, 
or at least have the appearance of being so, than the ordinary run of 
waiters who can be engaged for odd jobs, and there is wanting also that 
hungry look which the latter acquire when the end of the luncheon is 
approaching and the expectation of tips is near. For an affair of higher 
class, at which from 3s. to 5s. is charged, the number of waiters p .^ 

should then be not less than, say, one waiter to fifteen persons of Waiters 
if the viands are cold, but if it is a hot luncheon or dinner, *° °"^^*^' 
then one waiter to eight or ten persons is not too generous a provision. 
When considerable quantities of china, glass, &c., have to be unpacked 
and repacked after use, the caterer ought to keep special cases for their 
transport, each box and lid having the nature and quantity of its contents 
neatly stencilled on it. This provision is necessary if the hire is the 
caterer's own property, but even if hired from a ball fur- Carting and 
nisher it looks better, and is a good advertisement if all Packing, 
dishes, &c., are taken to the function in the caterer's own boxes on 
which his name is neatly printed. To ensure reasonable safety it is 
better, whenever the price will allow, to place a porter in charge of all the 
packing and unpacking. The vanman attending the job, if at a consider- 
able distance from home, is sometimes deputed to this work, as he has 
nothing to do while waiting to take back returns. Failing this, however. 

Vol. II. 85 



194 OUTSIDE CATERING 

it pays to have a careful man in charge of this work, who can also assist 
at odd work in the intervals when the dishes, &c., are in use. 

Whenever convenient it is economical to make suitable arrangements 
to have the dishes at least carefully washed and dried at once before 
Taking Care being packed away, this arrangement saving time and re- 
of Plant. ducing the chances of breakage. It is not so easy to clean 

plate and cutlery, but these should be wiped dry and clean always before 
packing and properly cleaned as soon as possible after returning home, 
so that when required again they need only the minimum of work. The 
satisfaction of customers depends a great deal on the expedition and tidi- 
ness with which the utensils and all dishes and food are removed after 
a function is over, and it always pays to have a trained staff to attend 
to this part of the business. Yet while expedition is so essential, both 
in preparing for a social event and in removal of the goods, appearance 
of hurry or undue bustling should be carefully avoided. The people who 
attend these affairs are not themselves in a hurry, but are in a relaxed 
mood, and much racing about and bustling on the part of the attendants 
seems in consequence to be incongruous, and grates on the feelings of 
the guests. Quiet dispatch can be obtained if the staff is properly 
trained. 

As the caterer usually undertakes work at so much per person, it 
is necessary to be particular in counting the number actually served. 
Counting When the affair is a purely private one the counting should 
the Guests. \)q ^0^9 without observation; this is quite easy when the 
number of guests is small. At functions where the guests move about 
and do not sit down together the counting is more difficult, but if the 
number is at all large a safe check can be obtained by the number who 
leave hats, &c., at the cloak rooms. At public functions of a high class, 
where tickets are not desirable, the numbers can be very quietly obtained 
by the head waiter or the caterer himself walking up and down the room 
noting only if there are any vacant chairs, the number previously placed 
in position before the guests arrived having been counted. When tickets 
are provided these should be of different colours for separate meals, or 
should the numbers be so large as to necessitate relays following each 
other, then each section should be provided with cards of different colours. 
The most expeditious and most satisfactory method of collecting tickets 
of this sort is before the guests enter the hall or marquee. All possible 
mistakes can then be rectified before the guests sit down to table, and 
much confusion may thereby be prevented. 

Amongst all the general points needing careful consideration none is 
so important as punctuality. A caterer's reputation may readily be ruined 
by keeping the guests waiting at table or outside the hall after the ap- 
pointed time, although it may readily happen, in fact very frequently 
Punctuality does happen, that those for whom the entertainment is pro- 
Necessary, vided keep the caterer waiting. When this happens all that 
can be done is to be, and appear to be, in perfect readiness at the proper 



ESTLMATING AND HIRING 195 

time, then by hints and courteous requests to those in charge expedite 
matters as much as possible. Whatever happens it is never wise to 
give any indication of temper, at least not while those providing the 
entertainment are near, although it may often be necessary to take a 
strong line and exhibit a good deal of firmness when departures from 
the contract engagement are proposed at the last moment, as they fre- 
quently are; but even this can be done in a manner not likely to give 
offence. To prevent any misunderstanding, however, it is better always 
to confirm a verbal understanding regarding a catering job by a formal 
note, setting out specifically the essential points, and requiring an acknow- 
ledgment from those providing the entertainment. 



CHAPTER XLII 

ESTIMATING AND HIEING 



The very greatest care should be exercised in the giving of estimates 
in all classes of catering work, and the cost should be thoroughly gone 
into as far as possible beforehand. It is best, when cheap and good 
class work are both taken in hand, that two diflferent qualities Careful 
of hire should be kept in stock, one class for good work, and Estimating, 
another for cheap. This secures a great saving on the wear and tear; 
and should hiring be necessary, get a price from the ball furnisher or 
hire agent for all goods required at so much per head for the lot that 
is requisite to carry out the work, as it generally works out much cheaper 
than at so much per dozen. Some of the quantities given here in the 
way of china and glass are estimated generously for breakages which may 
occur in transit or packing, as it is very awkward to run short some 
distance away from home, so as to replenish any of the china or glass that 
may come to grief. For cheap outdoor work it is better to substitute 
fancy paper serviettes for linen napkins, as they can be bought very 
cheaply, and may have your name printed on them in gold Expedients for 
for large quantities for very little or no extra cost. Should Cheapness, 
you have ver}'^ young children to cater for in the way of teas, you can 
substitute small mugs for cups and saucers, also calico tablecloths for linen 
or damask cloths. 

When a caterer has a reasonable expectation of a good many jobs 
during the entertaining "season, it is much better that he should provide 
himself with as much catering plant as possible, even if it is only obtained 
a little at a time. Silver and plated goods, when not in use, Keeping 
serve to give the confectionery shop a rich substantial appear- ^^" Hire, 
ance, which to some extent supplies the air we call high -class, and for 
this ornamental effect even they serve a good commercial purpose. China, 
glass, &c., are less expensive and should be kept in stock sufficient for the 



196 OUTSIDE CATERING 

kind and quantity of work generally done, then all extras can be hired 
from the ball furnishers in the usual way when any function is undertaken 
greater than the plant in hand will suffice for. Unless a caterer is able 
to keep a considerable quantity of plant of his own, there is not much 
profit to be made out of this class of work at the prices which now obtain 
if everything or nearly everything has to be hired. As, however, nearly 
all confectioner caterers have to hire at one time or another, and the goods 
required vary very much, we append here the general conditions to which 
the hire is subject and the prices charged by one of the leading London 
houses. These prices are somewhat higher than those charged by provincial 
hiring firms, but the comparative prices between one part 
of the plant and another are about the same. The prices 
given are for what may be considered high-class furnishing. The hirer 
may send his own vans for the goods and return them by the same 
means, and in this case the hirer is responsible for any loss or damage 
by breakage or otherwise that may occur in transit as well as that 
while the goods are in use. If, however, the hiring firm delivers and 
Conditions collects the goods, all damage or loss while in transit is at 
of Hiring, ^jjg j.[^]^ of that firm. The cost in the latter case is of course 
considerably greater than when the hirer uses his own van and takes 
the extra risks. No specific charge is made for delivery or collection 
within a limit of four or five miles from the premises of the hiring firm, 
and the radius of free delivery is extended in proportion to the quantity 
of the hire. For country customers the hiring firm delivers free at any 
London terminus, the hirer paying all rail and delivery charges after- 
wards and taking all risks. When the goods are delivered by the fur- 
nisher's vans a delivery list of articles is sent with the goods, and a 
responsible person should be in attendance to receive these and sign for 
them. Goods short or broken on return are charged at cost price in 
addition to the hire. 

When the hire is for one day only^ — and che prices quoted are on 
that understanding — the goods are delivered one day and are due to be 
returned on the next. If past this time an extra charge is made. In 
the case of china, glass, furniture, linen, lights, &c., there is a reduction 
in the rate when the hire is for more than one day. Thus, for two or 
three days the charge is one and a quarter that for one day; for a week 
J, r the charge is as one and a half days; for two weeks, as two 
Different and a half days; for three weeks, as three and a quarter days; 
Periods. ^^^ ^^^^ weeks, as four days; and for longer periods, as two 
days for each month. For marquees, temporary rooms, &c., the list price 
is for one day; two consecutive days are charged at a sixth more than 
one day; for three days it is one-third more than one day; a week is 
charged as a day and a half, and for longer periods special quotations 
are given. The stipulation is made with regard to cutlery that it must 
be cleaned and dried before repacking for return, and the same regu- 
lation applies to all goods likely to be afiected by wet. Any damage 



ESTIMATING AND HIRING 



197 



caused through mildew or rust is charged against the hirer. When 
marquees or temporary rooms are hired the furnishers send experienced 
men to erect and fit up these in any manner desired. 

Reference is made above to cases in which the furnishers supply 
everything for a function at so much per head. The Total Hire 
following lists show what is provided, and the prices 
charged by the London firm already alluded to. 



for Functions. 



Goods Required for a Dinner for Twenty Persons 

Charyes for Hire Only — Best, at 4«. per Head; Ordinary, 
at Zt. per Head 



18-ft. legged table. 
Cloth for same. 
20 table napkins. 
20 doyleys. 

4 glass cloths. 
20 chairs. 
80 meat plates. 
60 pie plates. 
20 cheese plates. 
20 soup plates. 

2 18-in. dishes. 

2 14-in. dishes. 

6 vegetable dishes. 

4 entree dishes and covers. 

2 soup tureens. 

4 sauce tureens. 

2 salad bowls. 
24 dessert plates. 
20 coffee cups and saucers. 
20 coffee spoons. 
20 ice spoons. 

4 salt spoons. 

2 hot milk jugs. 

2 cream jugs. 

2 sugar tongs. 

2 milk jugs. 

2 sugar basins. 
48 table knives. 
24 dessert knives. 
20 fish knives and forks. 
20 fruit knives and forks. 

2 pairs meat carvers and steel. 



2 pairs poultry carvers. 
1 pair fish carvers. 
1 champagne nipper. 

1 corkscrew. 

20 champagne glasses. 
20 claret glasses. 
20 sherry glasses. 
20 port glasses. 
20 liqueur glasses. 
12 |-pt. tumblers. 

4 water bottles and ups. 
20 finger bowls. 
20 hock glasses. 

2 large flower epergnes. 
4 small flower epergnes. 
6 glass dishes. 

4 salts. 

8 vinegar cruets. 
20 ice plates. 

^ wine decanters. 

2 claret decanters. 

2 celery glasses. 
40 table forks. 
40 dessert forks. 
20 dessert spoons. 
12 table spoons. 

1 gravy spoon. 

2 salad spoons and forks. 
2 soup ladles. 

4 sauce ladles. 

2 grape scissors. 

2 butter dishes and knives. 



198 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Sit-Down Wedding Breakfast or Ball Supper for Twenty Persons 



Charges for Hire Only— 
at 

Tables, 2 ft. for each person. 
Rough covers for same. 
Tablecloths. 
20 napkins. 
2 flower ornaments. 

1 epergne (E.P.). 

2 salvers. 

2 candelabra (3 lights). 

4 glass comports. 
40 meat plates. 
20 pie plates. 

2 entree dishes and covers. 
12 dishes. 

48 large knives (ivory haft). 
40 large forks (King's). 
20 small knives. 
20 small forks. 

4 pairs carvers. 
12 table spoons. 
20 dessert spoons. 
10 salts (E.P.). 
10 salt spoons. 

2 decanters. 

2 decanters (claret). 

2 water bottles and glasses. 
12 tumblers (J-pt.). 
12 glass dishes. 



-Best, at 2s. Qd. per Head; Ordinary, 
Is. 9d. per Bead 

20 fish knives and forks. 
20 sherry glasses. 
20 champagne glasses. 
20 claret glasses. 

4 mustards and spoons. 

2 salad bowls (china). 

2 salad servers. 
12 ice spoons. 
12 ice plates, 
12 cups and saucers. 
12 tea plates. 
12 tea spoons. 

1 claret bowl (china). 

1 claret ladle. 

1 soup tureen. 

1 soup ladle. 
12 soup cups. 

1 sugar basin. 

1 pair sugar tongs. 

1 cream jug. 

1 tea pot. 

1 coffee pot. 
12 champagne tumblers. 



6 l^-pt. tumblers. 
6 soda tumblers. 
2 glass jugs. 
12 wine glasses. 



Buffet Breakfast or Supper List for Fifty Persons 

Charges for Hire Only — Best, at Is. Qd. per Head ; Ordinary, 
at Is. per Head 



Tables (buffet and round). 
Rough covers for same. 
Cloths for same. 
Chairs for round tables. 
50 napkins. 

1 epergne. 

6 dessert stands. 

2 E.P. urns. 

4 E.P. salvers. 
2 E.P. sugar basins. 
2 sugar tongs. 
2 milk jugs 



2 candelabra. 
24 table spoons. 
40 dessert spoons. 
24 tea spoons. 

72 small forks. 
72 small knives. 

3 pairs carvers. 

6 knives and steel forks for small 

carvers. 
6 salts and ladles. 
2 mustards and ladles. 

4 breakfast cruets. 



ESTIMATING AND HIRING 



199 



Buffet Breakfast or Supper List for Fipty Persons — {Continued) 



36 champagne glasses. 
40 champagne tumblers. 
24 tumblers. 

6 decanters. 

6 water bottles 
100 plates. 
20 meat dishes. 
24 cups and saucers. 
36 ice plates. 



36 ice spades. 

10 glass dishes for jellies 

6 comports. 

3 glass jugs. 
24 tea plates. 
24 soup plates or cups. 

1 soup tureen. 

1 soup ladle. 



Wedding Reception for Twenty Persons 

Charges for Hire Only — At Is. 3cL per Head 



High buflfet table (10 ft. by 3 ft.). 
Cloth for same. 

2 glass cloths. 

6 china comports. 
20 dessert plates. 
40 tea plates. 
18 tea cups and saucers. 

2 hot-milk jugs. 
12 coffee cups and saucers. 

2 cream jugs. 

2 bread and butter plates. 

1 slop basin. 

2 table knives. 

20 fruit knives and forks, 
12 champagne tumblers. 
6 |-pt. tumblers. 



2 flower epergnes. 
2 glass dishes. 
20 ice plates. 
2 water jugs. 

1 water bottle, 
30 tea spoons. 
20 ice spoons. 

2 sugar basins, 
2 milk jugs. 

2 sugar tongs. 

1 pair grape scissors. 

1 salver. 

2 E.P. epergnes. 
1 small tea urn. 

1 small coffee urn. 



Cost of Hiring Plated Ornaments, etc., Separately 



Bacon dishes (hot water), each 2s. 
Basket, bread and cake, each Is. to 2s. 
Bowls, salad, E.P. mounts, each Is. 6d. 
Salad servers, E.P. mounts, per pair Qd. 
Bride cake stands, each 2s. to 7s. 6c?. 
„ saw and knife, each 6d. 

and Is. 
Butter dishes, each Is. 
Candlesticks, &c., each Is. &d. to 3s. Qd. 
„ with 5 to 13 lights, per 

light 9d. 
Centre pieces, each 5s. to 7s. 6c?. 
Claret jugs, E.P. mounts, each Is. 
Coffee pots, each Is. and Is. 6d. 



Cream jugs, each 8c?. 
Dessert stands, each 3s. to 5s. 
Epergnes for fruit and flowers, each 

2s. 6d. to 5s. 
Frames, cruets, &c., each Is. to 3s. 
Ice pails and stands, each Is. to 7s. 6d. 
Kettles, with spirit lamps, each 2s. 6c?. 
Knife rests, per pair 3c?. and 6c?. 
Labels for wines and spirits, per doz. 

2s. 6d. 
Loving cups, each Is. 6c?. to 2s. Gd. 
Milk jugs, each 8c?. 
Mustard pots, each 3d. and 6d. 
Nut crackers, E.P., each 3d. 



200 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Cost of Hiring Plated Ornaments, m:c.— (Continued) 



Salt cellars, each 6d. 

Salvers (10 to 24 in. diameter), each 

8d. to 3s. 
Soup cups, per doz. 4s. 
Specimen vases, per doz. 6s. to 8s. 
Sugar basins, each 8d. 
Tankards for champagne or claret cup, 

each Is. 6d. to 2s. 
Tea pots, each Is. and Is. 6d. 
Toast racks, each 6d. 
Urns, plated, each 2s. 6d. to 6s. 

„ tin, with lamp, each Is. 6d. to 2s. 
Champagne nippers, per doz. 2s. 
Dishes, meat, each 6d. to 2s. 6d. 

„ well, each 3s. to 3s. Qd. 

„ venison, each 4s. to 6s. 

„ side or entree, forming 8 plain, 
per set 4s. to 6s. 

„ vegetable, with warmers and 
divisions, each 2s. 

„ souffl6e, each Is. 
Forks, bread, per doz. 4s. 

„ dessert, per doz. 8d. to Is. 

„ pickle, per doz. Is. 6d. 

„ table, per doz. lOd. to Is. 2d. 
Grape scissors, per pair 4c?. 
Knives, fish carver and fork, per pair 
9d. and Is. 

„ fish eating, with forks, per pair 
2s. and 2s. 6c?. 

„ fruit, with forks, per pair 2s. 
and 2s. 6d. 

„ butter, each 2d. 
Ladles, punch, each 4:d. 

„ salt ajid mustard, per doz. id. 
to 8d. 

„ soup, per doz. 4s. to 6s. 

„ sauce, per doz. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. 

„ sugar, per doz. 3s. to 4s. 
Sauce boats, each 6^. 
Sugar sifters, per doz. 4s. 
Spoons, gravy, per doz. 2s. 6i. to 3s. 

„ table, per doz. lOd. to Is. 2d. 

„ dessert, per doz. 8d. to Is. 

„ tea or ice, "per doz. id. to 8d. 

„ coffee, per doz. 6d. 

„ fruit, per doz. 4s. 



Spoons, jam, per doz. Is. 
Spoon warmer, each Is. 
Tongs, asparagus, each 6d. 
„ ice, each 4d. 
„ sandwich, each 6d. 
„ sugar, each 2d. and 3c?. 
Knives, table, per doz. 6rf. to Is. 2d. 

„ dessert, per doz. 6c?. to Is. 
Salad bowls, glass, per doz. 6s. 
Celery vases, per doz. 4s. to 6s. 
Champagne saucer, per doz. Is. and Is. 6i. 
„ goblet, per doz. M. and Is. 

,, tumblers, per doz. 6c?. and 9ci?. 

Comports, per doz. 3s. to 4s. 6c?. 
Clarets, per doz. &d. and 9c?. 
Cruets, mustard, pepper, and vinegar, per 

doz. Is. 
Custard, per doz. 6^. 
Decanters, quarts, 4s. to 12s. 
Dishes, round or oval glass, per doz. Is. 6i. 

to 5s. 
Flower troughs, per doz. 2s. 
Finger glasses, per doz. Is. and Is. M. 
Hocks, per doz. 6c?. and ^d. 
Jelly glasses, per doz. 6c?. 
Jugs, claret, plain, each 6c?. to 9c?. 
„ „ cut, each 9(/. 
„ milk and cream, per doz. 2s. 
Liqueurs, per doz. M. and 9c?. 
Tumblers, per doz. M. and 'dd. 

„ soda, per doz. %d. and 9i. 
Water bottles, per doz. 2s. and 4s. 
Wines, ports, and sherries, per doz. 6rf. 

and 9c?. 
Cheese stands, each Qd. 
Cups and saucers, per doz. 6d. to Is. 
Dessert centres, per doz. 6s. 

„ plates, per doz. 8c?. and Is. 
Dishes, butter, each 3c?. 
„ cheese, each 6d. 
„ game pie, each 6c?. 
„ pie, per doz. Is. 
„ raised pie, each 6c?. 
Flower pots, ornamental, per pair Is. 
„ , majolica, each 5s. 
„ pedestals for same, each 

2s. 6c?. 



ESTIMATING AND HIRING 



201 



Cost of Hiring Plated Ornaments, KTij.—(Confuiaed) 



Jugs, each 2d. to Is. Gd. 

„ hot water, per doz. 3s. 

„ milk, per doz. Is. and 2s. 
Menu holders, per doz. Is. 6d. 
Mugs, per doz. Qd. to 9d. 



Plates, per doz. 6d. to 2s. 
Punch bowls, each Is. and 2s. 6d. 
Slop and sugar basins, per doz. Is. and 2s. 
Tea pots, Japanese, each id. and 6d. 
Toilet ware, per set 3s. and 5s. 



Cost of Hiring Tables, Seats, and Chairs 



Chairs, Austrian, per doz. 4s. to 6s. 
basket, per doz. 18s. 

„ coloured cane, per doz. 
30s. 
fancy coloured pillows, per doz. 

6s. 
concert, leather seat, per doz. 

6s. 
dining-room, leather, per doz. 

18s. to 24s. 
garden, high back, per doz. 5s. 
„ low back, per doz. 
4s. 6d. 
saddlebag easy, each 2s. Qd. 

and 5s. 
tapestry easy, each 5s. to 10s. 
Cushions, damask, for chairs, per doz. 
2s. 6d. 
„ plush, for chairs, per doz. 6s. 
Forms, plain wood, per ft. run Id. 
Rout seats, common, per ft, run l^d. 
„ walnut, folding fibre seat, 

per ft. run 2d. 
„ cane seat, best, per ft. 

run 2d. 
„ white and gold, uphol- 

stered in silk, per ft. 
run. Is. and Is. 6d. 
„ cushions, damask, per ft. 

run Id. 



Rout seats, cushions, velvet, spring seat, | 
per ft. run id. ; 

Tables, deal, on trestles, with rough cover, 
per ft. 3d. to Gd., according to 
width. 
„ on legs, per ft. 6^/. to 8'/. 
„ card, for progressive whist, covered \ 
green, each is. < 

„ „ Lyle's patent, each 2s. 
„ „ folding, mahogany, 3 ft. dia- , 
meter, each 2s. 6c?. 
Couches, each 10s. 6d. to 21s. 
Cloak tickets, per 100 Is. 
Curtains, per pair 2s. 6(/. to 13s. 
Hat racks, 5-shelf, per ft. Is. to Is. 3d. 

„ with 18 pegs, per* rack 6s. 

Looking glasses, each 5s. to 45s. 
Screens, each 5s. to 10s. 
Dancing cloths, per sq. yd. id. to 9d. 
Baize, per sq. yd. id. to 8d. 
Carpet strips, per yd. id. to 6d. 
Cocoanut matting, per sq. yd. 3d. 
Table cloths, damask, per yd. id. 
„ common, per yd. 3d. 

Table slips, per yd. 2d. 
Butlers' tray cloths, per doz. 3s. 
Tray cloths, per doz. 3s. to 12s. 
Serviettes, fine damask, per doz. Is. 6^. 

„ common, per doz. lOd. 

Doyleys, coloured or white, per doz. Is. 



In addition to the list here given, caterers' furnishers are open to provide 
anything for the kitchen in the way of cooking utensils, also for the fitting 
up of stables or of bedrooms, and will supply bands and entertainers of any 
kind. 



VOL. II. 



86 



202 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Capaciit for Various Functions, and Prices of Hire, of Marquees with 
Square Ends without Decorations 











For a Concert, 




Size of 


To Seat at 


To 


For a 


including 


Plain 


Marquee. 


Table. 


Dance. 


Reception. 


Platform and 
Gangways. 


Marquee. 












£ 8. d. 


20 X 10 


16 


— 


18 


30 


1 15 


25 X 15 


24 


33 


28 


56 


2 


30 X 15 


32 


40 


34 


72 


2 7 6 


35 X 15 


35 


48 


40 


88 


2 15 


30 X 20 


56 


53 


44 


88 


2 17 6 


40 X 20 


82 


70 


60 


132 


3 10 


50 X 20 


106 


88 


74 


176 


4 5 


60 X 20 


130 


106 


88 


220 


5 


35 X 25 


70 


75 


62 


126 


3 10 


40 X 25 


80 


88 


73 


154 


4 


45 X 25 


96 


100 


84 


182 


4 10 


55 X 25 


120 


122 


102 


238 


5 5 


65 X 25 


135 


144 


120 


280 


6 


40 X 30 


112 


106 


88 


187 


5 


50 X 30 


142 


133 


110 


255 


5 10 


60 X 30 


186 


160 


133 


323 


6 


70 X 30 


220 


186 


155 


374 


7 


90 X 30 


295 


240 


200 


493 


8 


110 X 30 


370 


293 


244 


612 


10 


60 X 40 


240 


215 


178 


360 


8 


80 X 40 


340 


285 


236 


500 


9 10 


100 X 40 


440 


355 


296 


640 


11 10 


120 X 40 


540 


426 


354 


780 


13 10 


140 X 40 


640 


500 


414 


920 


15 10 


65 X 45 


330 


260 


216 


456 


8 10 



CHAPTER XLIII 



AEEANGING THE TABLES 



In regard to table arrangement it has often been discussed whether 
horseshoe or square blocks are best for working at, but a great deal 
depends upon the space or room available to cater in, also upon the 
Breadth of width of table. The most convenient width is about 3 ft., 
Tables. g^ ^j^g guests can converse with those on the opposite side 

more freely, and it takes up much less room than wider sizes. The 
writer was once a guest at a very fine dinner given at one of our very 
high-class modern hotels to some very prominent chefs and others con- 
nected with catering, and when the dinner was served he was struck 
with the room as not being a very convenient one. It was a long 



ARRANGING THE TABLES 



203 



narrow room with a horseshoe table and service from the very far 
end. The attendance was not very good, as the waiters were very much 
in one another's way, and many of the guests had to wait a long time 
before being served. The writer expected to see the affair carried through 
in much better style at this hotel. Its service kitchen should have 
been much nearer the room where the banquet was held, and there 
should have been a more suitable dining-room. In outdoor catering, 
however, one has to put up with all kinds of places and to Caterers' 
do the best possible under the circumstances. If one has Difficulties, 
to erect tents or temporary rooms, and if not tied down to price, one 
can have just what suits oneself, but when confined to ordinary rooms 
or halls a good deal of trouble may be experienced. 




Fig. 144.— A Marquee for Catering 

Tents and temporary rooms have to be estimated for as an extra 
item. They can be put up at different prices. You can have them 
very elaborately fitted up with electric light and par- Temporary Rooms, 
quet floor, without nail or screw on the surface. Tents, &c. 

In planning the tables for a sitting-down function of any kind the 
allowance for each person, if the capacity of the room will permit, is 
about 2 ft., but as both sides of the table can usually Table Room for 
be occupied the allowance is really 1 ft. per person in Each Person, 
length of table. Thus a table 20 ft. long, the ends of which are not 
occupied, should comfortably seat twenty persons. The next important 
matter is to arrange for the service. It is always best to have the 
kitchen as near as possible to the room where the dinner or luncheon 
is to be if the dishes are hot; if it is a cold collation, carving and 
a carving table placed at one end of the dining-room Service Tables. 
or tent, and of sufficient length to accommodate all the dishes, is the 
most suitable arrangement, or if the room is crowded with tables, then 
the nearest convenient room can be occupied for service purposes. 
When the number to be catered for is very large, it is better to have 



204 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



carving tables at each end, or in rooms or tents at both ends of the 
place in which the luncheon is to take place. The arrangement of 
tables must of course depend on the number of persons. For a small 
Suitable Arrange, "um^^er, say twenty persons, a long table about 20 ft. 
ment for Small long is suitable, the host or chairman occupying one 
end of the table. When the number is about thirty, 
and the room long enough, a 
table planned in the form of 
a large T (fig. 145) is very 
convenient: the cross table or 
the long one can of coui-se be 
arranged to fit the dimensions 
of the room. 



Chairman 



Chairman 



Vice Chain 

Fig. 145.— Arrangement of Tables for about 
Thirty Persons 



Service 



Fig. 146.— Arrangement of Tables for about Sixty 
Persons 



When the number of guests is still larger, the forms as indicated in 
figs. 146 and 147 might be suitable, the service in one case being in another 
Plan for about room, in the other the viands being served from a separate 
Sixty Persons, table in the same room. The service door is shown in fig. 
147 as in the centre of the room, which is the most convenient when there 
is only one door, but it may be nearly as convenient if at one side. It is 
better, however, when there is more than one door, that they should be at 
the ends away from the head of the table, although that is naturally the 
table at which service begins, and if possible the chairman should never be 
placed right in front of the service door, or if this is unavoidable a large 
draught screen should stand in front of the door. 

An arrangement very suitable for a large oblong room or a long tent to 




INTERIOR OF TENT FITTED WITH HORSE-SHOE SUPPER TABLE 




INTERIOR OF TENT FITTED WITH BUFFET AND ROUND TABLES 

TENT CATERING 



ARRANGING THE TABLES 



206 



Chairman 



seat about two hundred persons is in- 
dicated in fig. 148. Service doors are 
shown, but if the function is in a tent 
it is more convenient to have the carv- 
ing and service table along the side of 
the tent at which are o o „• 

Service Position 

the free ends of the for Large Tent 
short tables, or if there ^*'"*y- 
are two service tables, then one at each 
side parallel with the short tables. This 
latter arrangement when possible is 
really the most convenient for a quick 
and efficient service. Another arrange- 
ment suitable for a tent luncheon is 
indicated in figs, 149 and 150. In one 
case the position for the chairman is 
shown at the end of one table, in the 
other at the middle of what will of 
course be the top table. 

Fig. 151 is intended to show an 
arrangement of narrow tables suitable 
for a function for which Arrangement for 
the price obtained is Large Party in 

low and the accommo- ^"^^^ ^P^"' 
dation stinted. In this case the tables 
may be not more than 18 in. wide, or if some appearance of good style 
must be provided, then they may be about 2 ft. wide. A particularly 



y (St > 



Fig. 147.— Arrangement of Tables for about Sixty 
Persons : Service from Outside 



Entrance 



Chairman 



Service 
f 



Fig. 118.— Arrangement of Tables for Large Tent Party 



Entrance 

r 



Service 



cosy arrangement for a good-class function is shown in cosy Arrange- 
fig. 152, in which a number of short tables are arranged '"*^'^* °* Tables. 



206 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



in two series In the centre with a long table top and bottom. Service 
doors are shown where they w^ould be most convenient, but the caterer has 



Entrance 



J 

Entrance 



Entrance 
r 



Entrance 



Fig. 140.— Arrangement of Tables for a Tent Luncheon 

generally to accommodate himself to arrangements much less convenient. 
Those plans all show straight tables, but it is quite easy, though a little 



Service 



Chairman 



Entrance 

r 



Service 



Fig. 150.— Arrangement of Tables for a Tent Luncheon 



more expensive, to have the tables arranged in concentric circles, crescents, 
or horseshoe shapes. 

For receptions at which the refreshments provided are only light, the 



ARRANGING THE TABLES 



207 



Service 



Service 



usual plan is to have a long 
buffet table erected along one 
side or one end ^^^^^ g^^^^^ 
of the room or for Light Re- 
tent, according f-^^shments. 
to the number of guests to 
be provided for, and then the 
guests are expected for the 
most part to help themselves. 
If there are a number of 
small tables arranged about 
the room at which the guests 
distribute themselves, the 
refreshments to be taken to 
them by waiters or wait- 
resses, then a smaller buffet 
table, which is in fact only 
a service table, is required, 

Fig. 151.— Arrangement of Tables for Large Party in Small Space and it may be placed in any 

convenient position, where 
the stock of viands for the whole service can be kept handy. When the 
space for the buffet table for standing-up refreshments is very limited, 

the shape giving the 

^^ ^ maximum of apace to the 

guests on the outside of 
the buffet is that of an 
arc of a circle against the 
wall of the room (fig. 
153). 

When the reception 
or other function is ar- 
ranged so that the guests 
can either obtain refresh- 
ments at the buffet or 
be attended to circular 
at small tables Tables, 
placed about the room, 
on the lawn, &c., the cir- 
cular form of table is still 
the most convenient, and 
looks ornamental with a 
smaller outlay for decora- 
tions than a straight table, 
A circular table of this 
kind can, of course, be easily made in sections; only the first cost is a little 
greater than that of a quite plain one. 



Entrance 



Chairman 



Entrance 

r 



J 

Service 



Service 

r 



\. 



Fig. 152.— Cosy Arrangement of Tables 



208 OUTSIDE CATERING 

At a ball supper, when the refreshments have to be served in the room 
where the dancing takes place, a convenient corner is the best place in 
which to erect the buffet, and then the circular form of table is the least 
obtrusive and most convenient for the guests, and provides the maximum 
of space for the attendants. When a number of small tables have to be 
Arrangement of arranged about a large room or tent or outside, it makes 
Small Tables. ^qq formal an appearance to have all the tables the same 
shape and size or arranged in too regular order. Yet it is much better 
to give the appearance of variety by difference in the shape and size of 
tables than by irregularity in their distribution. One form in any case 
Value of Straight should be carefully maintained — the passages radiating 
Passages. from the service rooms between the tables should be as 

straight as possible, so as not to interfere with the work of the Waiters 

or waitresses any more than 

necessary. Informality and 
the sense of ease cto be 
equally well obtained by 
having the cross lines of 
Fig. 153. -A re Buffet Table tables irregular. Arranging 

them around the wall of the 
room, with, of course, a convenient space between wall and tables, and 
with the service as much as possible next the wall, is a suitable arrange- 
ment that interferes very little with the freedom of the guests in the 
Importance of c®^^'^^- Nothing conduces more to the success of a social 
Careful Table function than care in arranging all such little details as these, 
annmg. rpj^^ great aim of the caterer is to give satisfaction to his 

customers, and after quality of the viands has been secured a quick and 
smooth-working service is the next factor in the problem, and nothing 
conduces so much to smooth working as a well-thought-out and deliber- 
ately executed table plan. 




CHAPTER XLIV 

ESTIMATING FOR TEAS, LUNCHEONS, BALL SUPPERS, ETC. 

The following series of estimates have been carefully worked out from 
catering work actually undertaken in the course of business by an experi- 
Small enced London caterer. In a business so varied there is much 

Margins. room for diversity of practice with regard to the amount of 
furnishing, food, or attendance to be provided ; but it must be carefully kept 
in mind that in the stress of competition profits are now comparatively 
small, and economy must be practised in every detail if the account is 
to be balanced on the right side. It is a decided weakness with those 
newly entering the catering business to strain after showy effects, and to 



ESTIMATING 209 

deliberately forgo profit for this purpose, or by very loose estimating to 
forgo profit without knowing it. Want of profit either way is fatal. If a 
great deal more than value is provided on one occasion at the expense of 
the caterer, a precedent is created that is not forgotten by the customer, 
and equal value is required on all subsequent occasions for the same price. 
Once an extravagant scale is established, there is the gi*eatest difficulty in 
afterwards reducing it to a paying limit, because people think nothing of 
absolute value or even of prices, but make comparisons of one occasion 
with another, and are unforgiving at the least falling off. It is better to 
begin the catering business, like all others, in a sound business way, and 
endeavour to secure a fair if only a small profit on every undertaking, 
commending yourself to customers rather by prompt attention to enquiries, 
by the greatest care in the preparation of everything, by punctuality and 
efficient service, and by personal supervision, than by providing goods past 
the price obtained. 

The estimates here given might be extended to include hundreds of 
functions which may vary in several details, but sufficient is given to show 
the general lines, and anyone can make the needed alterations to fit the 
special occasions. These details show more clearly than a mere expression 
of opinion how needful it is that a considerable quantity of furnishing 
should be bought by the caterer; otherwise, if hire has to be paid on each 
occasion, the profit would be entirely absorbed. 

All kinds of functions must be provided for, and some of the plain 
affairs if carefully done are quite as profitable as those designated high- 
class. Estimates are here made out showing furnishings required for teas 
from 9d. per head, to dinners at 6s. without wines; and a series of typical 
menus will be given for similar functions at the usual run of prices. 

Estimate for a Tea for 200 Persons at 9d. per Head, including Hire, 
Cartage, Attendance, etc., and the Profit 



Hire needed 








156 ft. tables and trestles. 48 milk 


jugs. 




56 yd. table cloths. 6 tea urns. 






300 ft. seating. 12 large 


tea 


pots. 


220 cups and saucers. 12 large glass cloths. 


200 tea spoons. 6 large 


jugs. 




220 small plates. 2 large urns or milk churns, to 


50 large plates. make tea 


in. 


48 basins. 








Cost of Materials. 












£ 


s. d. 


24 gal. tea 








16 qtn. bread at 6i. ... 







8 


8 lb. butter. Is. 







8 


3 lb. tea, Is. 6rf. 







4 6 


20 qt. milk, 3(^. 







5 


40 lb. cake (mixed), %d. 




1 





Carry forward 




2 


5 6 



Vol. II. 87 



210 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Brought forward 

12 lb. biscuits, 6d. 

18 lb. jam 
144 small buns (jammed and cut in two) 
18 lb. sugar 
Plants for tables... 
10 attendants 
Cartage 



Receipts : — Tea for 200 persons at 9c?. 
Cost (excluding hire) 

Gross Profit 



5 

6 

6 

5 

3 

5 

1 10 
10 



5 9 


6 


£ s. d. 
7 10 
5 9 6 




2 6 





Estimate for a Tea for 200 Persons at Is. per Head, giving Quantities 
FOR Hire, Cartage, and Goods Required, etc., with Profits 



Eire needed 



156 ft. of tables and trestles. 

56 yd. table cloth (calico). 
300 ft. of seating (forms). 
220 cups and saucers. 
200 tea spoons. 
220 small plates. 

50 large plates for bread, butter, 
and cake. 



48 basins. 
48 milk jugs. 

6 large milk jugs. 

6 tea urns. 
12 tea pots. 
24 salts and spoons. 
24 jam glass dishes. 



Cost of Materials. 



24 gal. of tea 
12 qtn. bread 

8 lb. butter 

3 lb. tea at Is. Qd. 
24 qt. milk 
30 lb. sugar 
40 lb. cake, 6d. ... 

8 lb. biscuits, 6^/. 
18 lb. jam 
12 bd. cress 
24 lettuce 

Salt 

10 attendants at 3s. 
Cartage ... 
Plants for table . . . 



Receipts: — 200 persons at Is. 

Cost (excluding hire) 

Gross Profit 



s. d. 








6 










8 










4 


6 







6 










3 


9 




1 













4 










5 













9 







2 













3 




1 


10 










10 








5 


4 







4 


3 


£ 


s. 


d. 




10 










5 


4 


3 
9 




4 


15 





ESTIMATING 



211 



Estimate for a Luncheon for 200 Persons at '2s. per Head, including 
Hire, Cartage, etc., and the Profits 



Hire needed 










156 ft. tables and trestles. 


200 small knives. 




56 yd. table cloths. 


6 


pairs < 


carvers. 




200 seats. 


48 


mustards and spoons. 


200 paper serviettes. 


48 salts and spoons 




6 table ornaments. 


200 tumblers. 




12 table spoons. 


18 water bottle.s. 




200 dessert spoons. 


12 dishes 






200 table forks. 


220 


plates 






200 small forks. 


220 


small 


plates. 




200 table knives. 










Cost of Materials. 














£ s. 


d. 


50 lb. roast beef at lOd. 






2 1 


8 


24 lb. boiled beef, 9d. 








18 





24 lb. ham, Sd. ... 








16 





4 veal-and-ham pies 








1 4 





Salad (various) . . . 








6 





12 fruit tarts, 2s. 6d. 








1 10 





10 qt. custard, 2s. 








1 





12 lb. cheese 








8 





/ 6 lb. butter, l.s. 2d. 








7 





4 rolls celery ... 








4 





250 rolls 








10 


6 


Salad dressing ... 








6 





2 pt. vinegar ... 











6 


12 waitresses, 35. 








1 16 





2 carvers, 5s. ... 








10 





Flowers and plants for t 


.able 






7 











12 4 


8 




£ s. d 




Eeceipts: — Luncheon for 200 


persons at 


2s. 


20 




Cost, without hire 






12 4 8 




Gross Profit 


... 


... 




7 15 4 





Estimate for a Plain Dinner for 500 Working Men 
at 2s. per Head 

Alenu 

Roast ribs of beef. 

Horse-radish sauce. Roast leg mutton. 

Boiled and baked potatoes. 

Brussels sprouts. Plum pudding. Cheese. 

Butter. Dinner rolls. 

Water cress. 



212 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



440 feet tabling. 
150 yd. table cloths. 
1000 meat plates. 
500 pudding plates. 
500 cheese plates. 

24 meat dishes. 

48 soup plates for cress. 



Hire needed 

120 vegetable dishes. 
5 gravy tureens. 
5 sauce tureens. 
50 peppers. 
50 mustards. 
50 salts and spoons. 
500 large knives. 

Cost of Materials 



500 small knives. 
10 pairs carvers. 
500 large forks. 
500 small forks. 
500 dessert spoons. 
500 tumblers. 
500 paper serviettes. 



£ s. d. 

7 15 10 

4 5 

3 

18 

12 

2 8 

1 5 
3 
5 
14 
9 4 
2 

5 
2 
4 



6 

6 



6 



220 lb. beef 

120 lb. mutton 

Meat for gravy 

3 bush, potatoes 

96 lb. Brussels sprouts 

30 bunches water cress 

700 rolls 

20 plum puddings ... 

5 qt. brandy sauce ... 
28 lb. cheese 

8 lb. butter 

500 serviettes 

Mustard, pepper, and suit.. 

25 waitresses 

6 porters 

10 carvers ... 

Hire plants for table 

Cartage 



Receipts: — 500 persons at 25. 
Cost, without hire 

Gross Profit 

Note. — Profit, less for hire; if own hire, 10 per cent ought to be allowed in the estimate for 
wear and tear to pay for same, breakages, and upkeep. 

Estimate for. a Dinner for 100 Persons at 35. per Head. Including 
ALL Goods and Hire, Attendance, Cartage, etc. 

If ivith Poultry 6d. per Head Extra 

Menu 

Soups. 
Clear soup. Tomato soup. 

Fish. 

Boiled cod and oyster sauce. 

Eoast ribs of beef. Boiled mutton, caper sauce. 

Baked and boiled potatoes. 

Brussels sprouts. Mashed turnips. 

Damson tart and custard. 

Cheese and celery. 





1 


10 





27 


19 ] 


10 


£ 
50 

27 


s. 



19 


d. 



10 




22 





2 





ESTIMATING 



213 



Hire needed 



75 ft. tables and baize or covers. 
28 yd. table cloths. 
156 ft. seats or 100 chairs. 
100 paper serviettes. 
110 soup plates. 
350 meat plates. 
6 meat dishes. 
110 cheese plates. 
4 savice boats. 
8 celery vases. 
2 soup tureens. 
18 vegetable dishes. 
6 cruet frames, 



100 large knives. 

100 small knives. 

100 large forks. 

100 small forks. 

100 fish knives and forks. 

1 pair fish carvers. 

4 pairs meat carvers. 

2 soup ladles. 

24 salts and spoons. 

100 tumblers. 

100 dessert spoons. 

24 table spoons. 



Cost of Materials 

2^ gal. clear soup 
3 „ tomato soup 

12 lb. leg beef 

6 „ tomatoes 

Cow heel and bones for stock 

Vegetables and seasoning 

48 lb. cod ... 

4 doz. oysters 

1 gal. sauce . . . 

20 lb. ribs of beef 

20 „ leg mutton 

50 „ potatoes 

1 bush, sprouts 

3 lb. caper sauce 
6 heads turnips 
6 damson tarts 

4 qt. custard 
6 lb. cheese ... 
3 „ butter ... 
1^ rolls celery 
150 rolls 

2 lb. castor sugar 
Cruets, salt, &c. 
Wages, 7 waiters 

,, 2 carvers 
Hire of plants and flowers 
Horse and van 



Receipts: — 100 at 35. 

Cost, without hire 



£ s. d. 



6 





2 





2 








6 


16 





2 





2 





16 


8 


16 


8 


4 


2 


5 





2 





1 


6 


12 





8 





4 





4 





1 


6 


5 








5 


3 





1 15 





12 





7 





10 





8 18 


~5 


£ s. d. 




15 




8 18 5 





Gross Profit 



6 1 7 



2U 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Estimate for a Dinner for 100 Persons at Qs. per Head 

Menu 

Spring soup. Tomato soup. 

Turbot. Hollandaise sauce. New potatoes. 

Escalopes of veal milanaise. 

Roast haunch mutton. Cauliflowers. 

Potato croquettes. 

Roast chicken. Dressed salad. Bread sauce. 

Potato straws. 

Apple charlotte. Ice pudding. 

Cheese. Dessert. 



80 ft. of tables and 

covers. 
33 yd. table cloths. 
100 chairs. 
100 napkins. 

4 soup tureens. 
108 soup plates. 
400 meat plates. 
200 pudding plates. 
12 meat and fish dishes. 
8 sauce boats. 
16 vegetable dishes. 
8 salad bowls. 



Hire needed 

20 entree dishes. 
10 cruet frames. 
300 large knives. 
120 small knives. 
6 pairs carvers. 
100 fish knives and forks. 
100 Dessert knives and 
forks. 
3 pairs fish carvers. 
36 table spoons. 
100 ice spoons. 
300 large forks. 
120 small forks. 

Cost of Materials. 
12 lb. stock meat ... 



12 qt. spring soup, 

Bones, &c. ... 

8 qt. tomato soup, vegetables and seasoning 

8 lb. tomatoes 

Sundries 

40 lb. turbot 

3 qt. hollandaise sauce 
10 lb. new potatoes 
14 lb. veal cutlets ... 

4 qt. sauce milanaise 
Sundries 

40 lb. haunch mutton 
30 cauliflowers 

14 stone potatoes, frying and preparings 
14 roast chickens ... 
Bread sauce ... 
Potato straws 
20 lettuces for salad 
French dressing for do. 
12 apple charlottes and sauce 
8 ice puddings 

Carry forward 



4 soup ladles. 
8 sauce ladles. 
24 salt cellars. 
24 salt ladles. 
100 claret glasses. 
100 hock glasses. 
100 champagne glasses. 
100 finger bowls. 
100 dessert plates. 
3 epergnes. 
12 fruit stands. 
8 assorted candelabra. 



£ s. d. 

6 

2 

1 

2 8 

1 

1 13 
2 
1 




4 
6 
3 
14 



4 

3 

1 13 
7 
5 

2 9 
2 
2 6 
3 4 
2 
12 
16 

10 3 5 



ESTIMATING 



215 



2 lb. Gorgonzola cheese 
2 „ Cheddar 
2 „ butter ... 

2 „ biscuits 
36 bananas ... 
36 tangerines 
6 lb. apples ... 
8 „ white grapes 
4 „ black grapes 
Rolls and bread 
Flowers and plants 
Cruets, salt, &c. 
8 waiters 

3 carvers 

2 persons to wash 
Cartage 
Cooking, &c. 



Receipts: — 100 persons at 6s. 
Cost, without hire 

Gross Profit 



Brought forward 



£ 


8. 


d. 


LO 


3 


5 





1 


8 





1 


8 





2 


4 





1 








3 








2 








2 








8 








6 








10 








15 








3 





2 


4 





1 


1 








5 








10 





2 


2 






19 


1 1 


£ s. d. 
30 
19 1 1 




10 18 11 





Estimate for a Ball Supper, including Light Refreshments, for 100 
Persons at 6s. per Head, with Hot Soup on ±jeparture 

Menu 

Salmon mayonnaise. Cucumber salad. 

Oyster patties. Veal and ham patties. 

Roast boned turkey. Dressed ham. Roast chickens. 

Dressed ox tongue. French salad. 

Tomato salad. Golden jelly. Strawberry cream. 

Vanilla cream. Maraschino jelly. 

Trifle. Maids of honour. 

Fours glacis. Ice pudding. Dessert. 

Coffee. 

Light Refreshments at Buffet Table 

Claret cup. Still lemonade. 
Orangeade. Soda and seltzer water. 

Tea and coffee. Coffee biscuits. 

Brown and white bread and butter. 

Genoa, Madeira, and cherry cake. 

Bonheur biscuits. Mascots. 

Almonds and raisins. Meringue biscuits. " ' 

Lemon water ice. Ice wafers. 
Strawberry cream ice. Parisian biscuits. 
Vanilla cream ice. 
Dessert, sweets, and chocolates. 



316 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Cost of Materials. 










£ 


s. 


d. 


24 lb. salmon 


1 


6 





Cucumber salad 





3 





36 oyster patties ... 





9 





24 veal and ham patties 





6 





2 boned turkeys 


2 








2 ox tongues 





10 





1 dressed ham 





12 





20 roast chickens ... 


3 








Mixed salad... 





5 





Tomato salad 





2 





150 rolls 





6 





12 jellies 


1 


4 





6 creams 





18 





6 trifles 


1 


4 





36 maids of honour 





3 





36 fours glacis 





4 


6 


10 ice puddings 


1 


10 





Dessert 


1 








Coffee 





10 





Parsley and cress for garnishing . 





1 





10 bot, claret 





10 





20 qt. orangeade 





5 





36 „ still lemonade 





8 





24 bot. soda 





2 


6 


24 „ seltzer water 





2 


6 


2 lb. tea 





3 





1^ „ coff'ee... 





2 


6 


Bread and butter ... 





2 





Genoa cake ... 





2 





Madeira cake 





2 





Cherry cake... 





2 





Bonheur biscuits 





2 





Mascots 





1 





Almonds and raisins 





2 





Meringue biscuits ... 





1 





2 qt. lemon water ice 





8 





2 „ strawberry cream ice 





10 





2 „ vanilla cream ice 





10 





Ice wafers ... 





1 


6 


Parisian biscuits 





1 


6 


Dessert, sweets, and chocolates . 





5 





6 waiters 


1 


10 





4 attendants 


1 








Cartage 





10 







22 


17 







£ 


s. 


d. 


Bipts: — 100 persons at 6s. 


30 








Cost, without hire ... 


22 


17 





Gross Profit 


7 


3 







CO 

m 

-J 

QQ 
< 

0^ 
LU 
Ou 

if) 

z 

LU 

:^ 

U 

LU 

Q- 



ESTIMATING 



217 



Estimate for Reception for 500 Guests at 3s. Qd. per Head 

Menu 

Sandwiches. 
Ham. Ox tongue. Salmon cream. 
Foie gras. Egg. 
Cucumber. Potted beef. Cress. 



Rissolettes of lobster. Chicken medallion. 

Oyster patties. Veal and ham croquettes. 

Maraschino jelly. 

Strawberry cream. Meringues a la creme. 

Fours glaces. Mascottes a la Reine. 

Marrons glaces. 

Genoese pastry. Parisian biscuits. 

Cherry, Genoa, Madeira cake. 

Strawberry cream ices. Cherry water ices. 

Vanilla cream ices. Ice wafers. 

Dessert. 

Sweets and chocolates. Fruits, various. 

Tea. Coffee. Lemonade. 

Claret cup. Champagne cup. 



Hire needed 



60 ft. buffet table, according to 

measurement of room. 
62 ft. baize to cover. 
25 round tables and cloths. 
22 yd. table cloths. 
6 epergnes. 
8 branch candelabra. 
16 plated stands. 
16 glass dishes for fruit. 
4 soup tureens. 
16 entree dishes. 
250 knives. 

6 coolers for plants. 
500 forks. 
250 dessert spoons. 
60 table spoons. 
30 salt spoons. 
30 mustard spoons. 

4 soup ladles. 
20 high glass dishes. 
24 flat glass dishes. 
30 salts. 
Vol. II. 



30 mustards. 
12 small cruets. 
250 wine glasses. 
250 champagne tumblers. 
96 tumblers. 
18 decanters. 
18 water bottles. 
18 glass jugs. 
60 soda tumblers. 
144 cups and saucers. 

60 tea plates. 
144 tea spoons. 
4 plated urna 
8 milk jugs. 
8 cream jugs. 
8 sugar basins. 
8 sugar tongs. 
144 ice plates. 
144 ice spoons. 
70 meat dishes. 
500 plates. 
18 salvers. 



88 



218 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Cost of Materials. 

40 doz. sandwiches, ham ... 

20 „ „ beef 

20 „ „ tongue, 5 dozen cucumber 

20 „ „ salmon cream 

10 „ „ foie gras, 10 doz. 

120 rissoles of lobster 

120 chicken medallion 

120 oyster patties 

120 veal-and-ham croquets 

24 maraschino jellies 

24 strawberry creams 

24 dishes meringues and cream 

4 lb. marrons glacis 

3 „ mascottes k la Reine 
8 „ cherry cake ... 
8 „ Genoa cake ... 
8 „ Madeira cake 

10 qt. strawberry cream ice 
10 „ cherry-water ice 
Ice wafers ... 

4 dishes dessert sweets 

4 „ chocolates 
Fruits, various 

5 gal. tea ... 
8 „ coffee 

18 ,, claret cup ... 
10 „ champagne cup 
20 waiters ... 

2 head waiters 

8 attendants 
Plants and flowers ... 
Cartage 
Sundiies 



Receipts: — 500 guests at 3s. &d. 
Cost, without hire 

Gross Profit 



Note. — Prices of goods vary according to season. 



£ 


s. 


d. 


6 








3 








3 


15 





3 








3 








1 


10 





1 


10 





1 


10 





1 


10 





2 


8 





3 


12 





2 


8 








9 








4 


6 





6 








6 








6 





1 


10 





1 


5 








5 








10 








10 





3 











8 


4 





17 





3 


12 





2 


5 





5 


10 








15 





1 


12 





2 








1 








1 











s. 

10 
13 


60 


13 


10 


£ 
87 
60 


d. 


10 






26 


16 


2 





Estimate for Garden Party for 200 Persons at 3s. M. per Head 

Memt 

Sandwiches. 

Ham. Tongue. Cress. 

Cucumber. Potted beef. Anchovies. 

Salmon cream. Foie gras. 



Gateaux. Genoa cake. Madeira cake. 
Mocha. St. Honore. 



ESTIMATING 



219 



Menu (Continiied) 

Strawberries and cream. Fruit jelly. 

Vanilla cream. Petits fours. 

Genoese pastry. Biscuits, assorted. 

Chocolates. Bonbons, assorted. 

Lemonade. Orangeade. 

Claret cup. 

Tea. Coffee. Iced coffee. 

Strawberry ice cream. Vanilla ice cream. 

Lemon water ice. Ice wafers. 

Dessert. 





Hire needed. 








24 ft. buffet table, according 


144 dessert spoons. 




12 


water bottles. 


to measurement of room 


. 48 table spoons. 




12 


glass jugs. 


24 ft. baize to cover. 


24 salt spoons. 




84 


cups and saucers 


10 round tables and cloths. 


24 mustard spoons. 




36 


tea plates. 


9 yd. table cloths. 


16 high glass dishes. 




84 


tea spoons. 


4 epergnes. 


16 salts. 




2 


urns. 


16 plated stands. 


16 mustards. 




4 


milk jugs. 


8 coolers for plants. 


8 small cruets. 




4 


cream jugs. 


24 glass dishes. 


144 wine glasses. 




4 


sugar basins. 


12 entree dishes. 


144 champagne tumbl 


ers. 


4 


sugar tongs. 


20 meat dishes. 


60 tumblers. 




100 


ice plates. 


600 plates. 


36 soda tumblers. 




100 


ice spoons. 


100 knives. 


12 decanters. 




6 


salvers. 


• 


Cost of Materials. 


£ 

7 




d. 



50 doz. sandwiches, various 


10 


3 Mocha gateaux ... 





4 


6 


3 St. Honore 


gateaux 





4 


6 


8 lb. Genoa cake ... 





6 





6 „ Madeira 


cake 





4 


6 


6 strawberry ( 


jreams 





18 





12 fruit jellies 




1 


4 





6 vanilla creams 





18 





Genoese pastry 


., . ... ... 





5 





Petits fours .. 







5 





4 lb. biscuits, 


various 





3 


4 


4 dishes chocolate, bonbons, assorted 





10 





30 qt. claret cup 


1 


10 





36 ,, lemonade 





9 





15 „ orangeade 





3 


9 


8 „ tea 


• • • • • • • • • 





2 





16 „ coflfee .. 








6 


8 


8 ,, strawberry ice cream 


1 


12 





4 „ lemon water ice 





12 





Ice wafers 


... 





2 







Carry forward 


17 


10 


3 



290 



OUTSIDE CATERING 



Brought forward 
Dessert 

Plants and flowers 
10 waiters 

2 head waiters 

2 attendants 
Cartage 

8 qt. milk ... 

8 lb. sugar ... 



Receipts: — 200 guests at 3.?. 6d. 
Cost, without hire 

Gross Profit 



£ s. d. 

17 10 3 

1 10 

1 

2 15 
15 
7 
10 
2 
16 



24 


10 


9 


£ 


s. 


d. 


35 








24 


10 


9 


10 


9 


3 



Estimate for Ball Supper for 200 Persons at 55. per Head 

Menu 

Mayonnaise of salmon. 

Dressed ham. Boned turkey. 

Dressed tongue. 

Pressed beef. Galantine of chicken. 

Roast fowls. 

Veal and ham pies. 

French salad. Tomato salad. 



Golden jellies. 

Strawberry cream. Maraschino jellies. 

Charlotte russe. Meringues. 

Fancy pastries. 

Trifles. Ice pudding. 
Wafers. 



Fours glac6s. 



Soup on departure. 



Light refreshments during the evening. 

Genoa cake. Madeira cake. 

Genoese cake. 

Coff"ee biscuits. Parisian biscuits. 

Wine biscuits. Small macaroon biscuits. 

Still Lemonade. Orangeade. 

Claret cup. 

Coffee. Neapolitan ices. 

Dessert. 

Sweets and chocolates. 



ESTIMATING 



221 



150 ft. tabling and trestles. 
154 „ baize. 

54 yd. table cloths. 
200 chairs. 
200 napkins. 
4 centre pieces. 

24 fruit stands. 

12 dessert stands. 

10 candelabra. 
400 large knives. 
200 small knives. 

24 pair carvers and forks. 
200 large forks. 
200 small forks. 
200 dessert spoons. 



Hire needed. 

80 table spoons. 
200 fish knives and forks. 
8 salts. 
8 mustards. 
4 soup ladles. 
400 plates. 
72 dishes, assorted. 
4 soup tureens. 
200 soup cups. 
24 high glass dishes. 
24 flat dishes or entrees. 
48 glass salts. 
48 mustards. 
200 wine glasses. 

Cost of Materials. 



40 lb. mayonnaise of salmon 
2 dressed hams ... 

2 boned turkeys 

3 braised ox tongues . 
8 lb. braised beef 

2 galantines of chicken 

3 veal-and-ham pies 
30 roast chickens 
16 French salads 
10 tomato salads 

6 golden jellies ... 
6 maraschino jellies 

2 charlotte russes 

4 strawberry creams 
12 dishes meringues, with cream 
36 „ French pastries 
36 „ fours glaces 

5 „ trifles ... 
20 pt. ice puddings 
Ice wafers 
220 supper rolls ... 
Flowers and plants 
16 qt. soup 
Sundries ... 
16 waiters 
2 head waiters ... 
4 attendants 
Cartage 

Light refreshments- 

4 lb. assorted cake 

4 „ „ biscuits 
36 qt. lemonade ... 
15 ,, orangeade 
36 „ claret cup 

3 gal. coft'ee 

Carry forward 



200 claret glasses. 
200 champagne glasses. 
72 tumblers. 
96 ice plates. 
96 ice spoons. 
200 lemonade tumblers. 
96 cups and saucers. 
96 tea spoons. 
2 urns. 
4 cream jugs. 
4 sugar basins. 
4 sugar tongs. 
6 salvers. 
200 small plates. 



£ s. d. 

3 

1 

2 
15 
10 
8 
15 

4 10 
8 
5 
18 
18 
10 
12 
12 
3 

3 

1 5 

2 
3 

9 2 

1 
12 
10 
4 8 

15 

1 
10 



3 

3 4 

9 

3 9 

1 16 
5 

32 19 3 



222 



OUTSIDE CATEKING 



Brought forward 
300 Neapolitan ices 

4 dishes dessert, sweets, and chocolates 
8 qt. milk 
8 lb. sugar 



Receipts: — 200 guests at 5s. 
Cost, without hire 
Gross Profit 





£ 


s. 


d. 




32 


19 


3 




1 


5 










10 










2 










1 


6 




34 


17 


9 


£ 


8. 


d. 




50 










34 


17 


9 




15 


2 


3 





Estimate for Wedding Breakfast for 50 Persons at 7s. Qd. per Head 

Including Hire of TaUes, Seats, Table Linen, Plate, Glass, China, Cutlery, Plants, 
Cartage, and Attendance. 

Menu 

Consomm^ a la royale. 

Salmon mayonnaise. Cucumber. 

Roast boned turkey. 

Braised York ham. Braised ox tongue. 

Raised pigeon pies. 

Roast chickens. 

Aspics of foie gras. Aspics of prawns. 

Galantine of veal. 

Braised beef. Lobster salad. 



Maraschino jellies. Strawberry creams. 

Meringues with cream. 

Charlotte russe. Sherry jellies. 

Fours glaces. 

Mascottes k la Reine. Maids of honour. 

Swiss pastries. 
Strawberry cream ice. Lemon water ice. 
Ice wafers. 
Dessert. Coffee. 



38 ft. tables, trestles, and baize. 
50 chairs. 

14| yd. table cloths. 
50 napkins. 
1 bride-cake stand. 

1 cake saw. 

2 epergnes. 

8 fruit and flower stands. 
125 large knives. 
50 small knives. 
6 pairs carvers. 
Large knives and steel forks. 
50 large forks. 
50 small forks. 



Hire needed. 

50 dessert spoons. 
20 table spoons. 
50 ice spoons. 
50 soup spoons. 

2 soup ladles. 
12 salt spoons. 

6 mustard spoons. 
32 dishes, assorted. 
150 plates. 
50 soup plates. 

2 soup tureens. 
10 high glass dishes. 
10 entree dishes. 
50 wine glasses. 



50 champagne glasses. 
50 hock glasses. 
25 tumblers. 

6 decanters. 

4 claret decanters. 

4 glass jugs. 

4 water bottles. 
12 salts. 

6 mustards. 
50 ice plates. 
10 flat glass dishes. 
18 hatelette skewers. 

2 salvers. 



ESTIMATING 223 

Cost of Materials. 



12 qt. soup ... 

12 lb. salmon 

2 pt. mayonnaise 

2 cucumbers 

1 roast boned turkey ... 

1 braised ham ... 

2 „ ox tongues ... 

1 raised pigeon pie 
6 roast chickens 

3 aspics of foie gras 

3 aspics of prawns * ... 

2 galantines of veal 
8 lb. braised beef 

3 lobster salads... 

4 maraschino jellies 

4 strawberry creams 

3 dishes meringues, with cream 
2 charlotte russes 

2 sherry jellies... ... ■... 

36 fours glaces ... 

1| lb. mascottes k la Reine 

24 maids of honour 

24 Swiss pastries 

4 qt. strawberry ice cream 

2 „ lemon water ice ... 
1 lb. ice wafers 

Dessert, assorted ... 

50 coffees (best coffee) ... 

Sundries, cruets, milk, and sugar 

3 waiters 

1 head waiter ... 

2 attendants or porterc 
Cartage 

Rolls 

Flowers and plants 



£ 


s. 


d. 





12 








18 








4 











8 


1 











10 








10 








5 








18 








10 








6 








10 








8 


8 





12 








12 








6 








6 








8 








6 








3 








2 


3 





2 








2 








12 








6 








2 








14 








4 


2 





4 








16 


6 





7 


6 





5 








10 








3 








5 






14 



£ s. d. 

Receipts: — 50 guests at 7s. 6d. ... 18 15 

Cost, without hire ... 14 

Gross Profit 4 15 



Note. — The prices vary according to season. 



224 0UT8IPE CATERING 

CHAPTER XLV 

SAMPLE MENUS 

The prices obtained for dinners and other functions for which the 
confectioner -caterer estimates do not depend wholly or even principally 
Dinner Price on the cost of the viands supplied. The number to be 
Factors. catered for, the amount of service desired, the distance at 

which the function is to be held, and the proportion of the cost to be 
expended in decoration, are all important factors in determining the cost 
to the caterer, and therefore the price at which they can be profitably 
undertaken. Estimates have already been given showing in detail what 
proportion these items usually bear to the total cost of entertainment, and 
these figures will serve as a general guide; but customers have often fancies 
in one direction and another, and to carry tliese out generally increases the 
expenses. The following menus for dinners, ball suppers, wedding break- 
Special Menus fasts, &c., are compiled from recipes and instructions given 
from Recipes. [^ previous parts of this work. They can be varied and 
multiplied to almost infinite extent from the same sources, but those here 
set out will serve as examples which may be followed with confidence, and 
may suffice to guide those who have not yet undertaken outside catering 
work very extensively. The prices for dinners only are given, the numbers 
assumed being not less than 100 in each case. Alternative menus are 
given for each price. 

Dinner for 100 at 5s. per Head. {IFines Extra) 

Menu No. 1 

Consomme a la Printaniere. Puree de Pois Verts. 

Turbot Bouille. Pommes Nouvelles. 

Ris d'Agneau a la Milanaise. 

Poulet R6ti. Salade. 

Gelee au Rhum. Glace a la Fraise. Dessert. 

■ Menu No. 2 

Consomme a la Princesse. Puree a la Palestine. 

Cabillaud a la HoUandaise. Pommes Nouvelles. 

Filets de Volailles a la Boulangere. 

Boeuf R6ti. Epinards. Chartreuse d'Abricot. 

Glace au Citron. Dessert. 

Menu No. S 

Potage a la Hesse. Puree a la Bretonne. 

Cabillaud a la HoUandaise. Pommes Nouvelles. 

Poulet Saute a la Marengo. Filets de Boeuf. 

Legumes. Glace Citron. Dessert. 



SAMPLE MENUS 225 

Menu No. 4 

Consomm^ Bourgeois. 

Turbot au Gratin k I'ltalieiine. 

Noisettes d'Agneau aux Pointes d'Asperges. 

Pommes Nouvelles. Poulet en Casserole. Salade. 

Glace Plombi^re. Fromage. Dessert. 

Dinner for 100 at 7s. 6^/. per Head 

Menu No. 1 

Consomme Julienne. Saumon Bouille. Sauce Vert. 

Agneau Eoti. Sauce Menthe. 

Pommes de Terre Nouvelles. Epinards. Canard R6ti. 

Sauce aux Pommes. Salade. Charlotte a la Vanille. 

Salade de Fruits. Glace aux Fraises. 

Dessert. Cafe. 

Menu No. 2 

Consomme aux Queues de Boeuf. Potage k la Bonne Femme. 

Filets de Soles Frits. 

Escalopes de Ris de Veau a I'Archiduchesse. 

Filets de Volaille a la Bigarure. 

Poulet Saut6 a la Marengo. Salade. Macedoine de Fruits. 

Glace Fraise. Fromage. Dessert. 

Menu No. 3 

Puree a la Palestine. Saumon. 

Sauce Homard. Pommes Nouvelles. 

Croustades de Ris de Veau aux Petits Pois. Selle de Mouton. 

Chou-fleur au Gratin. Tomates a la Proven9ale. 

Gel^es Variees. Patisserie. 

Glalce Vanille. Fromage. Dessert. 

Dinner for 100 at 9s. per Head 

Menu No. 1 

Potage — Consomme Julienne. 

PoissoN — Barbue Bouillie. Sauce aux Crevettes. 

ENTRi;E — C6telettes d'Agneau k la Maintenon. 

Eeleve — Civet de Li^vre k I'Anglaise. 

Pommes de Terre. Choux de Bruxelles. 

Rot— Poulet R6ti. 

Salade. Entremets — Petits Poudings k la Victoria. 

Bombe d'Abricot. Dessert. Caf^. 

Vol. II. 89 



226 OUTSIDE CATERING 

Menu No. 2 

Potage de Queue de Boeuf. Eperlans Frits. 

Filets de Turbot au Gratin. 

Salmis de Gibier. Filet de Boeuf Braise k I'Ainericaine. 

Pommes de Terre. Pur^e d'Epinards. 

Poulet R6ti. Salade. Souffle a la Vanille. 

Gelee au Citron. Fromage. 

Dessert. Cafe. 

Dinner for 100 at 12s. M. per Head 

Men% No. 1 

Hors-d'oeuvre. Huitres. Potage de Tortue Clair. 

Pur^e de Pols Verts. Turbot. Sauce Mousseline. 

Blanchailles. Ris de Veau a la d'Uxelles. 

Quenelles de Volaille. Selle de Mouton. 

Punch k la Romaine. Perdreaux Rotis. Pouding a la Reine. 

Bombe d'Abricot. Croiites a la Burlington. 

Dessert. Cafe. 

Menu No. 2 

Huitres. Consomme a la Julienne. Puree de Tomates. 

Blanchailles. Turbot. Sauce Mousseline. 

Cailles Farcis. Selle de Mouton. 

Pommes de Terre. Choux de Bruxelles. Sorbet Maraschino. 

Faisan R6ti, Salade. Chartreuse d'Ananas. 

Glace au Pistache. Dessert. Cafe. 

Dinner for 100 at 15s. per Head 

Menu No. 1 

Hors-d'oeuvres. Lax sur Croiites. Consomme a la Brunoise. 

Puree de Tomates. Saumon. 

Sauce Allemande et Concombres. Blanchailles. 

Ris de Veau a la Melita. 

Zephyrs de Caneton a la Belle lie. 

Sorbet Fine Champagne. Cailles Farcies en Casserole. Salade. 

Celeri a la Cr^me. CroHtes aux Ananas. Bomb Dahomey. 

Petits Fours. Dessert. 

Menu No. 2 

Hors-d'oeuvres. Huitres au Naturel. 

Consomme a la Julienne. Puree d'Asperges. 

Turbot Bouille. Sauce d'Homard. Mayonnaise de Saumon. 

Ris de Veau a la d'Uxelles. 

Compote de Pigeons a la Zingara. 

Sorbet d'Orange. Cailles en Salmis aux Tomates Farcies. 

Savarin au Peach. Comtesse Marie. 

Petits Fours. Dessert. 



SAMPLE MENUS 227 

Dinner for 100 at 17s. 6 J. per Head 
Menu 

Huitres au Nature!. Tortue Claire. Filets de Sole k la Richelieu. 

Rougets aux Fines Herbes. Steak k la Chateaubriand. 

Filets de Pintade a la Lorraine. 

Chou-fleur au Gratin, 

Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Ris de Veau aux £pinards. Sorbet au Champagne. 

Faisan en Casserole. Salade. 

Macedoine aux Fruits. Glace Framboise. 

Crotites a la Burlington. 

Dessert. Cafe. 

Ball Suppers and Receptions 
Menu No. 1 

Chaud. 

Consomme de Volaille en Tasse. Cotes de Mouton aux Haricots Verts. 

Compote de Cailles aux Olives Farcies. 

Froid. 

Filet de Volaille en Belle Vue. Mousse de Foie Gras. 

Jambon de York a la Gelee. P4te de Faisan. 

Galantine de Volaille. Pate de Perigord. Salade k la Russe. 

Macedoine de Fruits au Liqueur, Gelees Varices. 

Meringues a la Cr^me. Dessert. 

Menu No. 2 

Froid. 

Filets de Saumon Mayonnaise. Poulets Rotis. Chapon Farci. 

Jambon. Langue de Boeuf. 

Chaudfroid de Cailles. Parfait de Foie Gras. 

Cdtelettes d'Agneau a la Victoria. Boeuf R6ti. Salades de Homard. 

Gelee Macedoine. Gelee au Noyau. Chartreuse d'Abricots. 

Gateau a la Grecque. Pouding a la Venetienne. 

Petites Meringues. Patisserie. Pouding Glace a la Nesselrode. 

Menu No. 3 

Tranches de Truites. Mayonnaise de Saumon. 

Filets de Ris de Veau a la Gelee. Ballotines de Volailles. 

Filets de Volailles en Belle Vue. 

Filets de Pintade a la Lorraine. Cotelettes d'Agneau en Aspic. 

Sandwiches — Jambon. Langue. Foie Gras. Anchois. 

Volaille. Saumon Fume. CEufs et Cresson. 

Gelees Variees. Cremes Assorties. 

Chartreuse de Tangerines. Chartreuse d'Abricots. Meringues a la Creme. 

Gateau Fedora. Biscuits Assortis. Marron Glac^. 

Petits Fours. Chocolat. Fondants. 

Glaces. Cr^me aux Fraises. Cr^me k la Vanille. 

Eau de Citron. Limonade. Dessert. 



228 RESTAURANT CATERING 



Menu No. 4 



Filets de Soles en Belle-Vue. Mayonnaise de Saumon. 

Salade d'Homard. C6telettes d'Agneau en Aspic. 

Galantine de Volaille. Pouleta R6tis au Cresson. Langue de Boeuf. 

Dinde Farcie Braisee. Pat6 a la P^rigoid. 

Gel^es au Vin et Fruits. Crimes Variees. 

Meringues a la Creme. Petit Chou. 

Macedoine de Fruits. Dessert. 

Menu No. 5 

Mayonnaise de Honiard. P^te de Pigeon. Pat^ de Gibier. 

Galantine de Veau. Poulets Rdtis. Poulets a la Bechamel. 

Jambon de York. Langues de Boeuf. 

Dindon aux Truffes. Boeuf Roti. 

Salade a la Fran^aise. Cremes aux Fraises. 

Crimes a I'Orange. Fanchonettes. Bonne Bouchee. 

Meringues a la Creme. Dessert. 



CHAPTER XLVI 

THE RESTAUEANT KITCHEN 



The restaurant, of which the name has been adopted from the French, 
Restaurant v. has practically superseded the old-fashioned dining-rooms of 
Dining-Room. ^^ Georgian and early Victorian era. Our French friends 
have certainly introduced more variety on the menu with the new title, 
and their " soups and stews and choice ragouts " have (at any rate a good 
many of them) caused a considerable number of the old-time dishes to 
become obsolete as far as the everyday menu is concerned. The roast 
beef of old England still flourishes, however, almost daily, as do also 
the grilled chop and steak, and these old standards are likely to hold 
their ground in the restaurant menu of Great Britain for very many 
years to come; indeed, it is a risky business to leave them out even for 
a single day. The writer has been told by more than one traveller who 
has " done " some of the very best hotels and restaurants on the Continent 
that he has always been glad to get back to the steaming hot cut from the 
joint, and the grilled chop or steak. The word Restaurant, however, is 
very far-reaching — as elastic, in fact, as the word Hotel. It may denote 
anything between the palatial establishments patronized by the creme de 
la creme of society and those humbler havens for the hungry where you 
may obtain sausage and mash for 4cZ. 

This article is intended for neither of these, however, but for the higher 
middle -class restaurant, that may or may not have another business 
attached to it, such as a general catering establishment or confectioner's 




Z 

< 

< 
H 
C/5 

LU 

C/5 
C/) 

< 

U 

o 



THE RESTAURANT KITCHEN 



229 



shop, one where the daily patronage may be anything between fifty and 
one hundred and fifty per day. The proprietors of these establishments 
are most likely to become the readers of this work, and to them it will 
be almost superfluous to lay down the advice always to make it a 
point to have the bread and confectionery and kitchen Keep Depart- 
work done in separate departments, even if there is "^ents Separate, 
nothing but a stone or table to separate them; but a wall would be 
better still. A responsible man called the 
foreman usually superintends the former, 
whilst the chef takes charge of the latter. 
Supposing, then, that a business of this 
kind is about to be established in some good 
provincial town, and the cooking arrange- 
ments, such as hot plate, gas stove, and 
other fixtures, are complete and ready for 
working, the next important consideration 
will be the necessary utensils with which 
to furnish the kitchen. It will be a really 
wonderful list that will embrace every- 
thing required in a new venture of this 

kind, because so much has to be discovered after the business has started, 
but we will endeavour to enumerate the most important items — those which 
are practically indispensable, in fact, for the class of business indicated 
above. First and foremost on the list should be two stockpots (fig. 154), 




Fig. 154.-Stockpot 



each holding about 12 to 16 gal., with a tap and drainer in 



The Stockpot. 



each for the purpose of draining off* stock, &c. These may be 
made of copper or block tin (tinned iron); if of copper, they are, of course, 
expensive, but will last a lifetime, though they require retinning occa- 
sionally. A sure indication of this necessity 
is when your stock has a tendency to turn 
smoky-black in colour. The block-tin pots 
might last with great care from five to ten 
years, but they have a bad habit of leaking 
when least expected. They will stand new 
bottoms once or twice in that time, but they 
have to be cut down two or three inches by 
the tinman each time this operation is per- 
formed, so that their capacity becomes less. 

Otherwise they are good pots where initial economy is the consideration. 
The necessity for having two stockpots will be obvious, for although it 
may be very seldom that they are required on the stove at one time, 
that necessity may arise any day, or the one in use may spring a leak, 
and the business won't wait till the tinman has effected the repairs. 

Next in importance on our list of utensils should be six or 
eight copper stewpans (fig. 155) of a capacity of 4 to 12 qt., 
with say six auxiliaries in black saucepans for emergencies— -the boiling of 




Fig. 155.— Stewpan 



Stewpans. 



230 



RESTAURANT CATERING 



vegetables, &c. A bain-marie case is another important item. This is really 

a shallow pan (see fig. 156), usually about 18 in. square and 

about 6 in. deep. It is about half-tilled with hot water, so 

that sauces and entrees, whith are already in pans, may be kept hot with- 

. out burning. The frying kettle is another important asset 

in the kitchen. This is oval, with a wire drainer usually 

made of steel and welded together, as hot fat will melt anything in the 

way of soldered joints. Six ordi- 
nary frying pans will be required, 



Bain-Marie. 





Fig. 156.— Bain-Marie Pan 



Fig. 157.— Fish Pan 



Frying Pans. 



including four large oval and two small round, the latter for 
omelets, pancakes, &c., and the former for bacon, ham, and 
other fried meats. We also require two hair sieves (fig. 158), one rather 
coarse, the other fine, and two wire (brass) sieves, one coarse 
and one fine. These should be about 14 in. in diameter. The 
hair sieves are required for straining stock, soup, &c., whilst the wire 
Large and sieves are required for making bread crumbs (brown and 

Small Coolers, white), and for other 
purposes too numerous to mention. 





Fig. 158. —Sieve 



Fig. 159.— Pointed Strainer 



Six or eight large block -tin or enamelled coolers are required for the 
reception of stock, &c., and about the same number of smaller ones, 
Pointed the latter for remnants left from the day's entrees and the like. 
Strainers. Two or three pointed strainers (fig. 159) are also indispensable. 
These may be medium and fine, as they are required for straining gravies, 
sauces, &c., and are in almost constant demand. 

In addition to the larger pots already enumerated, a turbot kettle 
(fig. 160) will be necessary. This, as its name implies, is 
practically built for the turbot, and is of that shape, but, of 
course, it will cook other fish just as well, and is especially handy in a 



Fish Kettles. 



THE RESTAUKANT KITCHEN 



231 



restaurant, as several portions of any sort of boiled fish may be kept hot 
in it for quick serving. There is a very useful pot on the market which 
is made of cast iron, this being its weakest point, for it will not stand 
knocking about without cracking, in which case the tin- cast-iron 
man cannot mend it. It will last a great many years with Boiling Pots, 
careful handling, and is most useful for a great variety of purposes, such 
as the boiling of a large quantity of vegetables, hams, tongues, special 





Fig. 160.— Turbot Pan 



Fig. 161.— Oval Cast-iron Pot 



beef, &c. There is another pot equally useful, without the disadvantage 
of being breakable, which is made of tinned iron or block Block-tin 
tin. It is more of an oblong pattern, and when big enough Boiling Pots, 
will boil a round of beef or boar's head, with enough surrounding liquid 
to obviate the necessity of replenishing with hot water. It is somewhat 
after the fashion shown in tig. 162, and probably holds about 10 gal. 
If the local ironmonger does not stock them so large as this, the tin- 
smith can readily make one to order. ' 
We now come to the smaller utensils, such as the ladles and spoons. 

At least four each of these will Small 
be required, with four fish slices. Utensils. 
They may be in copper or iron and of 
various sizes. In addition to these we need 





Fig. 162.— Block-tin Boiling Pot 



Fig. 163.— Whisk 



six wooden spoons, a wire frying basket, and a couple of whisks. The 
old-pattern whisk with a wooden handle is of little use for rough wear, 
the wood and the wire having a tendency to dissolve partnership with 
heavy work. Therefore, the best one for our purpose of the ready-made 
type is that with a wire handle, as it will last out three Enamelled -iron 
or four of the old-fashioned type (fig. 163). It is always Dishes, 
well to have a good supply of enamelled-iron dishes, for the more you have 
of these the fewer breakages there will be among the breakable ones. 
Two important items still to be mentioned are the mortar and the 



232 



RESTAURANT CATERING 



Mincing Machines. 



mincing machine. It is as well to have two kinds of mincing machines. 
There is a cheap American machine that is admirable 
for mincing cooked meat, apples, and the like, buib which 
is useless for raw meat, and there is another of British manufacture which 
is good for raw meat. It is true that you can pound nieat in the 
mortar, but the macliine work is much more effective and expeditious. 

The mortar is practically indispensable in any kitchen where economy 
has to be studied, but it is necessary to have one at least 12 in. in diameter, 
inside measurement. This should be fixed on a solid foundation, 
and have the regulation lignum-vitse pestle, the handle of which 
works through a ring overhead. When once fixed this arrangement will 



Mortar. 




Fig. 164— Carving Table and Hot Cupboard 



speedily pay for itself, as it will very quickly convert dried scraps of bread 
and toast into serviceable bread crumbs for fish-crumbing purposes, and will 
crush up a bar of salt in an amazingly short space of time, besides being 
useful for other crushing and mixing purposes too numerous to mention. 

In the majority of the larger restaurants the grilling and the joint- 
carving are done almost in the presence of the diner, that is, in the 
Carving in dining-room itself, in which case one of the staff is told 

Dining-Room. Qff from the kitchen to perform these functions for a 
couple of hours or so each day. Where this is not the rule a " half-day 
man " (a waiter and carver combined) is usually employed, and in some 
instances the proprietor himself presides over the hot joints. These 
methods, however, depend on the amount of trade and the amount of 
space in the dining-room, and may be entirely superseded by this work 
being done in the kitchen, especially if the cooking and the dining are 
not too far apart, as cold draughts and a long journey will speedily 
convert a hot plate of meat into a lukewarm one, and a few incidents 
of this kind will soon damage the reputation of any restaurant. 



THE RESTAURANT KITCHEN 233 

The well-known firms who are in the habit of fitting up kitcliens 

have several excellent plans for fixing up the necessary plant for 

keeping joints hot. Those heated with boiling water are 

very effective and economical. The water is heated by 

gas as a rule, and this of course may be turned on or off at the will of 

the operator, and one of these fixtures may easily be capable of keeping 

a variety of three joints hot with necessary gravies, sauces, 

" ^ Duties of Carver, 

and vegetables, so that the carver — if not overwhelmed 

with business — may take command of the whole lot, although the vege- 
table maid usually presides over her department in this respect. 

The " sweets " course of the average restaurant menu is not as a 
and rule very extensive in variety; at least something easily served 
bearing a good old-time reputation seems to suit the sweets in Res- 
patrons of these establishments far better than the more taurant Menu, 
elaborate entremets from the Continent. So to keep pace with these 
demands, enamelled-iron pie dishes and plain pudding m.oulds will be 
absolutely essential among the rest of the necessary utensils. Such 
articles as jellies, creams, and blancmanges are very seldom patronized 
for this class of trade, although stewed fruits of various kinds with 
custard have a good following. Should the restaurant be " run " in con- 
junction with a confectioner's shop, the mince pies, cheese- Pastries 
cakes, and other pastry goods would be supplied from that ^^ Sweets, 
department, also the patty cases and the rolls — in fact, anything that may 
be on the everyday list of the bakehouse proper. 

Having disposed of what we may term the main features of the 
restaurant kitchen of the class indicated in the early part of this chapter, 
let us take a view of the necessary staff to work it. Assuming that the 
restaurant business is likely to embrace between a hundred and one 
hundred and fifty patrons as a daily average, with an occasional ball 
supper or other outdoor function in addition, it would be staff for 
necessary to employ a chef to take over the control of the Restaurant, 
kitchen, and with him a young fellow to act as second, a good reliable 
kitchen maid, and either a good general female help or a vegetable 
maid, and a strong young fellow to act as kitchen porter. If all the 
plates and dishes are washed in this department a good scullery maid 
would be necessary. She would take a large share of the scrubbing, 
and assist in the preparation of vegetables, such as peeling potatoes, 
washing cabbage, &c. It may be remarked here that although this last- 
mentioned servant is placed practically on the lowest rung mm 
of the restaurant ladder, her importance is very great, and 
a really good scullery maid is invaluable. To her we look for the clean 
plate from which we take our food, to her we look to a very great degree 
for the cleanliness of the place from which we get that food, and provided 
she is naturally industrious and intelligent, her possibilities are extensive. 
She may by observation acquire sufficient knowledge to become vegetable 
maid, her next promotion would be to kitchen maid, then to chef's assistant. 

Vol. II. 90 



234 RESTAURANT CATERING 

and afterwards she could take charge of a kitchen as woman cook. This 
is no imaginary picture, for the writer has several first-class female cooks 
in his mind at the present time who commenced in the way described. 
There is a great demand for first-class female cooks to-day, but the supply 
is not equal to the demand, as the training is not sufficiently "genteel" 
for the average middle-class daughter. She wants her freedom, the print 
dress and white apron are wormwood to her, and in the event of her not 
having a home to go to, she would prefer dispensing with a banking 
account altogether and barely live from hand to mouth in lodgings in 
order to keep up appearances behind a shop counter, or as a female 
clerk. 

But to resume the consideration of the staff" of a restaurant kitchen. 
We will assume that the place is about to start business, and the staff" 
enumerated above are engaged. It would of course be expedient for the 
R 1 t" of manager or manageress to have consultations with the chef 
Manager in advance as to the class of business and compilation of 
and Chef. suitable menus, according to the class of customers likely to 
patronize the establishment. The experienced chef will naturally know 
the various duties of all his subordinates, and will act accordingly, but 
however experienced he might be, he will doubtless find that a new 
Difficulties business will not go very smoothly for the first few days, 
of Starting. ^]^q machinery will be somewhat stiff" at the starting, and 
the amount of trade will be a matter of speculation. It is wasteful to 
be much overstocked with supplies, and it is bad form to run short, so 
that the first few days of any business are a trying time. Let us now 
give a rough outline of the average duties of a kitchen staff" of the 
above type. 

The chef's duties may be summarized thus: to take general control, to 
write menus, to keep the store book, to write orders, to check incoming 
_^ . r rv, f stores, to direct the kitchen staff" and see that their duties 
are performed, to finish soups, entries, &c., which are 
beyond the abilities of the second cook, to give orders, and superintend 
the general serving out of all dishes for the dining-room. If the chef 
is a good disciplinarian, without being altogether a martinet, it will be 
all the better for himself, his staff", and the business. 

The duties of the second cook (in some establishments they have what 
is termed an improver at this post) would be to carry out the instructions 
Second Cook's of the chef, to be his right-hand man in fact, and to 
Duties. represent him during his absence. He would probably — 

with the aid of the kitchen porter — be responsible for the plain roasting 
of joints, poultry, &c.; see to the supply of good stock and foundations 
for soups, sauces, &c.; cut chops and steaks, and, in the absence of a 
regular carver, assist with the carving and the grills. In fact, he invari- 
ably possesses the ambition to become a chef, and the more painstaking 
and industrious he is the sooner he will reach that goal. Two most 
valuable qualities in his composition would be willingness and respect 




O 

o 

< 
CO 

m 
z 

g 
o 

u. 
z 

O 
O 

C/) 
C/) 

< 

O 

X 

O 



THE EESTAURANT KITCHEN 235 

for his instructor, and if he has natural ability as well his ultimate 
success is assured. 

The next servant in importance is the kitchen maid. Her duties are 
various, but important. It generally falls to her to make all sorts of 
stuffing, apple and other plain sauces, and bread crumbs Duties of 
(white and brown); also to crumb fish for frying, to look Kitchen Maid, 
after the chef's meals, in the absence of a vegetable maid to boil the 
vegetables and fry the potato chips, and in conjunction with the scullery 
maid to keep the kitchen dressers clean. The kitchen maid's post is no 
sinecure as far as duties are concerned, but then she is rising in the 
profession, and it is she who will be the woman cook mentioned earlier 
in this chapter. The typical kitchen maid is a picture: clean print dress, 
snow-white apron, white cap, bare arms, compact figure, and quick move- 
ment. She may be looked upon with disdain by the average shop girl, 
but she is not a whit inferior in her financial worth or in the importance 
of her post; indeed, the possibility of a banking account is far greater in 
her case than in that of her more stylish sister. 

The next assistant in importance on the kitchen staff is the vegetable 
cook (if one is kept), and if she is capable of taking over this department 
entirely, using judgment at all times, and serving up the Duties of 
vegetables with unvarying success, she will be invalu- Vegetable Cook, 
able. As her title implies, her all-important duties will be in connection 
with the management of the vegetable department, and in a good many 
ways assisting the second cook or the chef in the preparation thereof for 
soups, sauces, &c. Her opportunities are great, therefore, for picking up 
a good knowledge of cooking, and in this way she will learn more by 
observation and practice than she would by a constant perusal of all the 
cookery books on the market, or by watching a demonstrator at the 
technical institute. 

The kitchen porter, as his name implies, should do the heavy work 
of the department. His duties generally consist of scouring stockpots 
and stewpans, the cleaning of the kitchen floor and of Duties of 
all the brass and steel work, lighting fires, and carrying Kitchen Porter, 
coals, besides giving assistance to the second cook in roasting joints, &c. 
It is a common thing in America for a kitchen porter to rise from his 
position to that of chef in the same establishment, and there is no reason 
why he should not, if he possesses the necessary ability. Very fre- 
quently in Britain kitchen porters get engaged as roast cooks at the 
large hotels. 

The last, but by no means least, on our present list is the scullery 
maid. Humble as is her position, it is an important one, and her one 
and only motto is work. Besides her regular duties of Duties of 
peeling potatoes, washing plates and dishes, she is prac- Scullery Maid, 
tically ready for all emergencies. If an entree or a tureen of sauce is 
accidentally upset in the dining-room, it is the scullery maid who is invari- 
ably called upon to bring her bucket and floorcloth to clean it up; in 



236 RESTAURANT CATERING 

short, she is a kind of reserve force in the establishment,, and if her 
temper is not always exactly as it should be, she has a good deal to 
ruffle it at times. If she is shrewd, however, she will bide her time 
and watch her opportunities. 

In regard to supplies it would be difficult to lay down a hard-and-fast 
rule, but the prevailing custom in restaurants is for the chef and the 
manager to spend half an hour together after the luncheons 
are over, to discuss the following day's menu, and for this, as 
a rule, some fresh supplies are required. The chef would naturally make 
notes of what he has left from that day's menu, and make up that for 
the following day accordingly, so as to use up as much as possible in 
a presentable form to the customers. Where a variety of two or three 
joints are kept hot daily, in addition perhaps to a couple of kinds of 
Making up poultry, there is sure to be a greater run on some than on 
Left Viands, ^jjg others; consequently there will be something to spare, 
which should be turned into money the following day. The great point, 
however, in the ordering of fish, joints, and poultry from the market, is to 
get the best quality. The British public will follow quality, and, as a rule, 
are willing to pay a little more for it. Customers will come again, and 
perhaps bring one or two friends next time, but if inferior meat is served, 
they will perhaps be lost to the establishment after the first trial, espe- 
cially if there is much opposition in the town. The finest chef in existence 
cannot manipulate a joint of inferior beef to equal that cut from a prime 
English beast, so that the good-quality stuff carries its own advertisement, 
whether it be sold as hot joint, entree, or what not. 

As it is the custom to have a cold-meat display in the restaurant, 
especially in the summertime, there is no harm in having a joint of beef. 
The Cold- or even lamb, left from the business, as these make up for 
meat Table, cold, with the addition of salad; but there is little use for 
cold pork or mutton on this table, therefore these should not be over- 
stocked. Poultry, on the other hand, can always be worked up for the 
following day's menu, and when uncut may accompany cold ham and 
tongue for the cold meat table. It is in connection with this depart- 
ment that outdoor catering may come in with advantage, for if a ball 
supper is catered for, say the previous night, there is invariably more 
provided than is actually required, for it is bad policy to cut the supply 
too fine. Therefore, what is left, such as game pie, galantine of turkey, 
and the like, all helps to increase the display on the cold-meat table at 
the restaurant or in the public window; in fact, it is a common occurrence 
for a customer to buy one of these savoury dishes right out for some 
little party he may have at his private residence. 

Whatever changes may be made on the daily menu in regard to 
poultry, entrees, and the minor joints, it will be found advantageous to 
Permanent keep roast beef, and grilled chops and steaks, on the perma- 
Dishes. j^gjj^ jjgt^ Although the beef, of course, may be cut and 

served immediately, the customer is always willing to wait from seven 



THE KESTAURANT KITCHEN 237 

to ten minutes for his chop and steak, as unless it comes to him direct 
from the grill he will not get it to perfection. This, as the reader is 
doubtless aware, is a recognized condition in any restaurant, for a ready- 
cooked chop or steak which has been standing some time is not to be 
compared to one fresh from the grill. 

The general extent of the meat supply should, to a very great extent, 
be left to the discretion of the experienced chef, although it is absolutely 
essential that he should work hand in hand, so to speak, with the manager 
and the head waiter. It is the last-named who is chef. Manager, 
actually in touch with the customers, and slight errors ^"^ Head Waiter, 
may come under his observation which he can handle with tact so as 
to prevent friction. An even-tempered and tactful head waiter is a most 
valuable asset in any restaurant, hotel, or club. 

We have now given some idea as to the most economical joints to 
prepare daily, but naturally enough there will always be something left, 
however cai-efully the list of supplies is made out. Cold lamb which is 
too far cut into to be presentable on the cold-meat table To Use up 
may be minced and served with poached eggs as an entree ^°^^ Lamb, 
the following day. The remains of veal may be served in the same way, 
in which case a little rolled bacon may be added to the dish, use of 
It may also be converted into croquettes, rissoles, kromeskys, ^°^^ Veal, 
bouchees, or patties, and figure among the entrees, each and every one a 
palatable dish. The remains of poultry may be potted for to Use 
the cold-meat table, or converted into curry, saute de poulet, ^°^^ Poultry, 
fricassee de poulet, or put to any of the uses mentioned above for veal. 
There is no need for waste in a restaurant kitchen. The very bones, 
with the assistance of the all-important stockpot, may be converted into 
a variety of soups. To bear out this statement the writer may repeat 
the remark that a rag-and-bone merchant made to him some years ago: 
" Hotel and restaurant bones are not worth buying. Them stockpots give 
'em such a doing that there's no goodness left in em." So we may 
assume that it is the bones from the private houses that have the 
" goodness left in 'em ". 

Especial care should be taken of the liquor in which legs of mutton 
or chickens and turkeys have been boiled, as these make excellent 
soups, such as Scotch broth, cockie-leekie, and the like. Liquor from 
Although they are not very strong in themselves to start Boiled Meats, 
with, they become so with the addition of mutton bones and trimmings 
from the larder in the case of the former, or chicken, turkey carcasses, 
and veal bones in the case of the latter. Indeed, these soups when sold 
advantageously will go a long way to settle the account of the meat 
that was originally boiled in theni. It is in this way that a restaurant 
kitchen should be able to pay with a good balance on the right side. 

Perhaps it will be as well at this point to give a Typical Menus 
couple of typical menus for a restaurant, such as would f°'" Restaurants, 
be suitable for the business indicated above. Of course changes can be 



238 



RESTAURANT CATERING 



made as the season advances, but the variety here indicated will be found 
sufficient for our present purpose. 



Saups 

Consomra^ brunoise, 4rf. 
Scotch broth, id. 
Mulligatawny, id. 
Tomato puree, 4^. 
Thick mock turtle, 6d. 



Cold Meats 

Roast beef, lOd. 

Lamb and mint sauce. Is. id. 

York ham, 10c?. 

Ox tongue, Is. 

Pressed beef, Is. 

Hot Joints, from 12 ^o 3 

Roast beef, horse-radish sauce, lOd. 
Roast mutton, onion sauce, 10c?. 
Roast veal and bacon, 10c?. 
Roast chicken and bacon, Is. 3d. 

Sweets 

College pudding, 3d. 
Tapioca pudding, 3c?. 
Apple pudding, id. 
Prunes, rice, and cream, Qd. 
Apple tart and custard, id. 



Sample Menj, No. 1 



' Entries 



Minced lamb and poached eggs. Is. 2d. 
Mutton cutlets, with peas. Is. 4c?. 
Braised sweetbreads, with tomato, Is. id. 
Tournedos k la Fran^aise, Is. id. 
Chicken saute, Is. 6d. 

Grilled chop or steak, lOd. 
Two kidneys, 10^/. 

Fish 

Fried fillet of plaice, anchovy sauce, 8d. 
Cod steak, egg sauce, 9o?. 
Small fried sole, tartan sauce, lOd. 
Brill k la supreme, 10c?. 



Vegetables 

Peas, id. 
Cabbage, 2d. 
Cauliflower, 3c^. 
Boiled potatoes, 2c?. 
Baked potatoes, 3d. 

Cheese, &c. 

Gruy^re, 2c?. 
Gorgon zola, 2c?. 
Old Cheshire, 2d. 



Sample Menu, No. 2 



Soups 

Consomm^ au Spaghetti, 4c?. 
Thick ox-tail, Qd. 
Cockie-leekie, 4c?. 
Consomm^ k la Reine, Qd. 

Chill 

Chop, \0d. 
Steak, 10c?. 
Fillet steak. Is. 
Tomato, 4c?. 



Hot Joints, from \2 to 3 

Roast beef, Yorkshire pudding, \0d. 
Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, lOc^. 
Roast pork, apple sauce, 10c?. 

Fish 

Fri«d whiting, sauce beurre, M. 
Boiled halibut, Dutch sauce, %d. 
Fried fillet of sole, shrimp sauce, 1 Oc?. 
Salmon, parsley sauce. Is. 6c?. 



THE RESTAURANT KITCHEN 239 

Hot Entries Vegetables 

Saute of rabbit, with mushrooms, Is. Brussels sprouts, \d. 
Vienna steak, with fried onions, l.s. 2d. Cabbage, 2rf. 
Veal and ham patties, \s. 2d. Cauliflower, 4c?. 

Stewed kidneys, \s. Carrots and turnips, 3c?. 

Boiled potatoes, 2d, 

Baked potatoes, 3c?, 

Fried potatoes, 3c?. 

Sweets Cheese, &c. 

Rhubarb tart, 4c?. Gorgonzola, 2c?. 

Rice pudding, 4fl?. Old Cheshire, 2fi?. 

Stewed fruit and custard, 4c?. Gruy6re, 2c?, 



Pastry, 3c?. 



Sardines (3), 4c?. 
Sardines on toast, (Sd. 



There is not sufficient space here to give a great variety of menus, 
nor is this necessary, as a competent chef will naturally study the 
seasons and work up the contents of his larder to the best advantage. 
Moreover, the tastes of the average person in this country are apt to vary 
very much according to the district in which he lives. Take 
as an instance the cottage pie. The writer knows a district in 
which this economical dish is exceedingly popular^ and may be on the menu 
three or four days a week, its patrons being high-class people too. The 
way it is made there is as follows. The remains of cold roast beef, lamb, 
or mutton are cut from the bone, and passed through a mincing machine. 
This is then stirred into about half its quantity of good boiling brown 
sauce or gravy, to which a small quantity of finely chopped onion has 
been added, and if possible some of the meat essence which has run from 
the joint. Season this up with pepper and salt, and when it is of nice 
consistency pour it into a pie dish. Have ready some well-seasoned and 
smoothly mashed potatoes, and spread this carefully over the mixture 
so as to form a species of pie crust with it. Slightly egg over, bake 
sharply till brown on the top, and it is ready for serving. Should this 
pie be served in the dining-room within view of the customers, it may 
be made more ornamental by a decorative edging of mashed potatoes forced 
through a large star tube and piping bag. This dish may be popular at 
any time, but it is especially so in winter, and it is a good line for using up 
cold joints which may be too much cut down to be presentable on the cold- 
meat table as they are. 

There is an exceedingly popular dish which is invariably to be found on 
the restaurant menus in Lancashire in the winter time, namely, Lancashire 
the Hot Pot. As there seems to be no reason why it should ^°' P°*- 
not be introduced in other districts we will give it here. It is perhaps 
not quite so economical as the preceding, but still it will assist in econo- 
mizing some of the remnants of the larder. Supposing you have a few 




240 KESTAURANT CATERING 

chumps of mutton (after the loin chops are cut from them) which are 
Recipe for eligible, cut them into pieces about 4 oz. each, and if you have 
Hot Pot. jj^^y underdone remnants of joints from the previous day these 
could be cut up also. Remains of stewed kidney may be also utilized, but 
if none are left, about half a bullock's kidney should be cut up. They 
use in Lancashire a round fire-proof dish of the shape shown in fig. 165 
for the purpose, and the method is to fill this up with alternate layers 
of sliced potatoes, kidneys, mutton, and beef, and season with pepper and 
salt. Some prefer a good proportion of sliced onion with every alternate 
layer of meat, but although this makes it savoury enough it does not suit 
all palates. A small quantity of onion, however, is always desirable when 
this dish is almost full. Water is added, and the whole 
is surmounted with either rather small potatoes or 
large ones cut in two. It is then baked in a steady 
oven for a couple of hours, the grease is skimmed off, 
and it is then lit to serve out in portions. In some 
places oysters are added either before or after the 
Fig. 165.— Hot-pot Dish baking, and they certainly impart an additional 

savoury flavour to this North Country dish. 
Bouchees and patties may be filled with the remains of minced veal, 
Bouchees and cliicken, turkey, or sweetbreads, and if a little chopped ham 
Patties. Qj. tongue is added, with a few yolks of eggs, and a small 

quantity of melted gelatine to make it workable when cold, it may 
be moulded into cutlets or croquettes, crumbed and fried. Sometimes 
these are served in a napkin or dish paper as a dry entree, but the 
writer thinks they go better with a little sauce of some kind and a 
spoonful of spinach; indeed, they are light and tasty entries which are 
not only suitable for the midday lunch, but answer admirably for a ball 
supper or other function when solidity may not be required. 

To come to the more solid portion of the menu, such as the joints 
themselves, it matters not whether the carving table is in an annexe 
to the dining-room or in the kitchen, but great care should be taken 
Importance of in this department. The writer has heard it asserted that 
Carving. "^ good carver is bom, not made" — indeed, a really good 

carver will save his wages by the skilful manipulation of the joints 
and poultry; and if he is quick withal he is invaluable, for he not only 
economizes the joints themselves but makes an appetizing display on 
the plate for the diner, and leaves no waste behind him. Considerable 
waste may be made in the placing of food on a plate, whether it be soup, 
fish, entree, or joint, and it is as bad to err on the side of plenty as on 
that of defect. An overdose of sauce for the fish or entree, or too much 
gravy for the joint, gives them a messy appearance, and tends to take 
away the recipient's appetite before he attempts to partake of it. Vege- 
tables are usually served separately on small dishes, so that the diner can 
help himself. 

The system of checking and giving orders varies considerably. There 




A RESTAURANT INTERIOR 



THE MANAGEMENT OF A EESTAUEANT 241 

are plenty of places where the old-time system of paying the waiter or 
waitress and getting a small cheek receipt is in vogue, but perhaps the most 
expeditious and business-like is when the waiter or System of Checking 
waitress carries a check book with counterfoil, and '" Dinmg-Room. 
after noting the extent of the customer's lunch, gives him or her a check 
for the amount, which is handed in at the cashier's desk with the payment. 
This, of course, refers to the dining-room itself, but everything served from 
the kitchen should be checked also. The best plan for this is to have a 
blackboard with hooks or spikes on which to hang waiters' checking in 
checks for everything served from that department, these Kitchen, 
being collected after the business is over by the clerk or cashier, and 
compared with the waiters' check book and cash taken. By these means 
the amount of profit on each joint may be arrived at. 

There is one important piece of furniture which is often neglected in 
the larder, and that is the weighing machine, for incoming checking Goods 
goods should be weighed and checked, and the invoices Received, 
should be collected weekly or monthly as the case may be, to compare 
with the tradesmen's accounts. By these means the incoming and the 
outgoing are always under the observation of the chef, and it will 
naturally enough be to his interest to make the department that he 
controls a paying concern. 



CHAPTER XLVII 

THE MANAGEMENT OF A RESTAURANT 

What a wide field for research is covered by the above heading, not 
only for the customer himself, but also for the proprietor, the manager, 
and the whole of the staff right down to the scullery man! There are 
restaurants and restaurants, of course, and they vary in their character 
in much the same way as their not very distant relations, classes of 
the hotels. There are the highly decorated and high-priced Restaurant, 
restaurant palaces of the metropolis, and those which are scarcely less 
palatial in the larger cities and towns of the provinces. There is also 
a second, third, and even fourth grade (possibly more than that) all 
floating under the title of restaurant. Whatever the grade, there is 
one common aim for the proprietors, namely, to keep them floating 
and to show a good profit if possible. Let us dwell for a brief space 
on the upper middle class restaurant, for what might be called second 
class in London would answer very well for first in tq h d p 

the provinces. The business men of the town generally vincial Restau- 
patronize these, and fair but not exorbitant charges are ^^^^^ Compared, 
made as a rule. Fair prices, with a reputation for viands of good quality, 

are a greater advertisement for restaurants of this description than a richly 
Vol. il 91 



242 



RESTAURANT CATERING 



uniformed doorkeeper or an elaborately decorated interior; for the average 
Briton sees more beauty in a nicely grilled and juicy mutton chop or steak 
than he does in a blue and gold dado. Restaurants can be made inviting 
without undue decorations, and the good things on the menu should always 
To Hold be in the front rank of the attractions laid out to entice the 
Customers, man about town. Feed him consistently and let him pay 
reasonably and he will not only come again himself, but will probably 




Fig. 166.— Cai'ving Table with Covers 

bring his friends; in fact, he will become a walking advertisement for 
the establishment. On the other hand, give him plenty of gold and 
glitter and let him depart almost as hungry as when he entered the 
door, and he won't forget it, neither will he forget to talk about it, so 
that he becomes an advertisement in this case also. 

In the working of a restaurant which, we will assume, is capable of 
A Restaurant supplying about one hundred and fifty to two hundred 
for 200. meals per day, a manager is generally appointed, unless 

the proprietor himself superintends matters. In the latter case he may 



THE MANAGEMENT OF A RESTAURANT 



243 



have a sub-manager, who may look after the books as well, and repre- 
sent the chief during his temporary absence, check wines from the 
cellar, &c. A cashier, either male or female, is essential in the busy 
part of the day, a head and second waiter assisted by waitresses, a 
plate man, who may also assist a light porter in doing heavy The Ser- 
cellar work in the morning, and a good carver, who is generally ^'^^ ^^^^• 
a half-day man — that is, he commences his duties, perhaps with the cutting 
of chops and steaks about 11 a.m. and finishes about 4 o'clock. In the busy 
time (between 12 and 3) of cutting joints, &c., one of the younger assistants 
from the kitchen can be spared to assist him. About 3.30 there staff for 
is a general clear up — the waitresses see to tablecloths and ser- Carving. 

viettes, the light porter looks after knives 
and forks, and so on; a few of the staff 
being told off to look after possible teas, 
which generally commence about this time. 
The all-important parts of the day's 
programme consist in giving satisfaction to 
the customers and in the accurate Checking 
checking of accounts. The last Accounts, 
item of course has to answer the vital 
question as to whether the concern is float- 
ing with a profit or sinking with check on 
a loss. To keep a proper check Kitchen, 
on the kitchen or service staff each waitress 
should be provided with checks or tokens 
representing portions of different values of 
vegetables or meats, which she should pay 
to the carver or server as the portions are 
taken away. It is necessary to provide the 
waiters and waitresses each with a check 
book, which is manufactured for the pur- 
pose and has a distinctive number attached. 
There is a counterfoil to each leaf, with soup, fish, entrees, poultry, joints, 
&c., thereon. The waitress makes a double entry, and tears checks on 
off a leaf which serves as the bill to the customer, and he in Waiters. 
his turn takes it to the cashier's desk as he departs, and pays the 
amount. The cashier files the small bill for future reference, and so 
the business proceeds to the end of a restaurant day, which is generally 
about 6.30 or 7 o'clock, although in London some places keep open till 
12, but it depends on the district. An ingenious device is in use in 
some restaurants in which a large business is done, in the form of a 
ticket punch (fig. 167) carried by the waitresses. A ticket is torn from the 
strip and punched against the price of the article supplied, and as this is 
done at the time of serving there is no danger of any item being for- 
gotten, as happens sometimes in the busy part of the day when a waitress 
is attending to several customers at the same time. The customer hands 




Fig. 167.— Ticket Punch 



244 RESTAURANT CATERING 

in the punched slip in the usual way at the pay desk. The last duties 
in the desk department are, to count up the checks, to add up the sum 
recorded thereon, to see if it tallies with the cash in the till or cash 
Books to register, and to enter that sum in the Day Cash Book, which 
be Kept, should be ruled so that there is a heading for Meals, another 
for Bar (drinks, &c.), and a column for Total. At the end of the 
week these daily accounts should be inserted in a Weekly Cash Book, 
showing total amount for each day during the past week. At the end 
Monthly of the month stocktaking should be done, and tradesmen's 

Stocktaking. }^[i\g compared with takings, giving credit, of course, for 
amount of stock in hand. This plan carried out regularly will show 
unmistakably the balance of profit in hand — independent of the fact 
that all tradesmen should send in a check with each lot of goods de- 
livered. During the week they should send in also a weekly account, 
Checking Trades- and their book at the end of the month, when the 
men's Accounts. account should be settled. This gives the firm's repre- 
sentative a good reputation for paying, also an independent right to go 
elsewhere if the goods are not of the quality required or demanded, besides 
the knowledge of the fact that the banking account is absolutely sound. 

As already noted the best draw for a restaurant is the good quality of 
the refreshment to be obtained there, whether it be for eating or drinking. 
Even with those valuable assets, however, the general good management 
of the establishment is absolutely essential. There is, of course, a great 
amount of responsibility on the manager, who has to show great tact and 
even affability occasionally under trying circumstances, for accidents will 
happen and oversights occur even in a restaurant. Little less in import- 
Importance of ance to the manager are the chef and head waiter, the 
Chef and Waiter, former being mainly responsible for the good things to be 
served, and the waiter and his staff for the proper serving of them. 

The carver follows closely, if he is not exactly in social position 

equal to the last two; his post is important all the same, and a good 

quick and clean carver will earn his wage by the dexterity and 

economy of his methods, whereas a bad carver will not 

The Carver. 

only cut to waste, but his plates will have an uninviting 

appearance, although the quality of the meat served may be first-class. 

The writer recommends the plan of keeping a diary, in which may 
be recorded the fluctuations in the price of meat from one year to 
another, also those of fish and vegetables. By these means the profit 
Diary for on a joint of ribs of beef, weighing say 25 lb. at the time of 
Prices. roasting, may be ascertained, the same with 1 cwt. of potatoes, 
and so forth. A petty cash book is also indispensable, for slight and 
Petty Cash unforeseen expenses occur almost daily, which should on no 
Purchases, account be entrusted entirely to memory, as it very often 
causes confusion when it comes to the counting up of the day's takings. 

Although the employment of a good reliable carver is here advo- 
cated, it will be always found a very great advantage if the manager 



THE MANAGEMENT OF A RESTAURANT 245 

and his deputy make themselves efficient in this important line. A 
sudden indisposition of the regular man with no one Manager's Ability 
else available at the time may necessitate such assist- *° Carve, 
ance, or even an extra rush of business through some important event 
taking place in the town will cause a sudden influx of customers, who 
are as a rule very impatient, and the more quickly they are served the 
better it is for all concerned. It is in this emergency that the manager 
would shine if he were expert with the carving knife, and having 
"stemmed the tide" so to speak, he could leave the regular man to his 
post. This knowledge of carving is not at all unusual either in managers 
or even proprietors of restaurants and hotels; indeed, the writer knows 
more than one of the latter class who can give most carvers a long start 
in the manipulation of the carving knife, and take a great interest in it, 




Fig. 168— Cutting Table for small Restaurant with Enamelled Vegetable Dishes 

knowing as they do the great importance of that branch of the business, 
and that the carver is often the man on whom profit or loss depends. 

Perhaps a few general hints on the art of carving will not be 
out of place at this juncture. They may be of some use Hints on 
to the inexpert, and may act as a slight incentive to some Carving, 
readers to acquire a practical knowledge of an art which should be 
known in every household; for who has not in his travels at some time 
or other seen a leg of mutton or a piece of beef " half murdered " by 
bad carving, and when placed on the table as a cold joint for lunch 
or supper presenting the appearance of having been " mauled " by the 
lodging-house cat, the result of bad and wasteful carving. Every father 
and mother should acquire a knowledge of carving, for there is woeful 
waste in private houses for the lack of it, and singular to say, those 
who have been in service and even those from the mansions of the rich 
are generally the worst offenders. 

In taking on a carving job either in public or private the all-important 
utensil is a good keen-edged carving knife. There are three or four 
patterns for meat, a round-of-beef carver being of a totally Knives for Dif- 
difFerent type to that used for ribs or poultry. All these ferent Purposes, 
should be kept sharp, and the two last somewhat stiff in the blade, for if 
they have a tendency to bend like the round-of-beef carver you will un- 
wittingly get into the habit of " scooping " the meat, whereas it should be 



246 RESTAURANT CATERING 

kept straight and clean cut, so that the remains of a "ribs of beef", which 
has been served hot, may present a trim appearance on the cold-meat table 
next day. Economical carving should follow it even there till it is neatly 
carved to the very bones, which may in their turn be committed to the 
stockpot, helping others of a like nature to make the soup. 

In choosing joints of beef for roasting, the standing ribs are the 
best for carving and the most economical, and a piece of say 25 to 
Choosing 30 lb. from the right side of the bullock is the best. In 
the Joints, q^q cutting the butchers are very fond of getting too far 
into the shoulder. This causes unavoidable waste, as he cannot get 
nice slices from this part, but if he just encroaches on the blade bone 
with his knife all will be well. All these joints, from whichever side 
of the beast they may come, should be cut (when cooked) in the same 
way, that is to say, the thick or chine end should be away from you, 
How to Carve and then you cut from the left side. Paradoxical as it 
a Joint. jjiay seem, this is called right-hand carving, whereas if 

you cut from the right it is left-handed. A man used to cutting one 
way finds it awkward to continue a joint begun in the other way. 

Following the standing ribs is the time-honoured sirloin of beef. This 
is carved in an entirely different way to that adopted with the ribs. The 
Carving fillet side being uppermost, it is cut completely across, but when 
a Sirloin, q^q fillet side is used up, the joint is turned over and then treated 
the same as if it were a " ribs ". This is not such a paying joint, however, 
for the price is usually high, and there is a good deal of fat attached which 
cannot be used up in the carving. Moreover, everybody expects fillet 
from a sirloin, and of course this will not go very far unless you have 
an extra piece of fillet roasted, at the side of the dish to eke it out. 

A boiled round of beef, with dumplings, or carrots and turnips, on the 
other hand, is practically all economy, for, with the entire absence of bone, it 
Boiled Round can be carved out to the last ounce almost. A special carving 
of Beef. knife is used for this — long and straight in the blade — and if 

this knife is sharp, a fine spread of thin slices can soon be made by carving 
away at the top, and holding the knife in a horizontal position. If it is 
not desirable to have the entire round, a silver side, which is a section of 
the round, may be used with advantage, in which case it may be cut 
either horizontally or vertically, according to the size of the joint. 

Legs of mutton, provided they are of good size and quality, may be 
counted among the profitable joints. These may be carved in slices from 
the centre at first, and then turned over and carved 
from the otlier side, until little but the bone remains. The 
haunch of mutton, consisting as it does of loin and leg attached, if carved 
in a legitimate way, is rather wasteful; but a great many treat it as a 
hind quarter of lamb, in which case the loin part is jointed, so that the 
carver can serve this part in chops, with perhaps a slice from the leg if the 
mutton is not large. Saddles of mutton are too extravagant for ordinary 
restaurant work, although suitable for special dinners, in which case they 




o 
o 

0:: 

6 
z 

z 

Q 

h- 
z 

< 

a: 

< 

h- 

c/) 

LU 



THE MANAGEMENT OF A RESTAURANT 247 

may be cut straight down on each side of the bony ridge in the centre. 
Hind-quarters lamb is always jointed at the loin, and may be served as 
the haunch of mutton as described above. Fore-quarters lamb Haunch of 
should be carefully jointed before it is cooked. This makes it Mutton, 
easy enough to carve. Serve a small cutlet or chop with a piece of the 
breast to each guest. 

A leg of pork should be well " scored " and slowly and thoroughly 
cooked before serving, when it may be carved like a cold ham. A neck 
of pork should have the chine or backbone taken away Carving Leg of 
with a saw before cooking, and if it has the skin on. Pork, 
should be well scored, which will make it a very easy joint to carve. 

Turkeys, geese, ducks, and chickens now come under our notice. A large 
meaty turkey, accompanied by sausages or other garnish, will generally 
cut out well. It is a good plan to take off the legs in carving Large 
advance, and cut the meat from them in slices, keeping Fowl, 
this warm around the dish, so that when plates of turkey are called 
for, a slice from the leg and one from the breast may go on each plate, 
accompanied by stuffing, sausage, &c. In this way the legs get used 
as well as the breast. Geeee may also be used up like this if large, but 
if on the small side the leg may be chopped in about three portions, each 
accompanied by some of the breast, with apple sauce, stuffing, &;c. Fowls 
will generally run into four portions, and ducks into five; spring chickens 
into two, and ducklings into three. In the case of fowl a Fowls, Duck- 
distinction is madt3 between leg, wing, and breast portions, li"&s, &c. 
ham, bacon, or tongue being served with it. Duck may be carved in a 
similar way to fowl; so with pheasant, but being rather more meaty a few 
slices may be taken from the breast to go with the legs. Pigeons and 
partridges may be served half for a portion, the same with quails; in 
the case of the latter the portion is usually served on buttered toast. 

A haunch of venison is not a very common luxury on the ordinary 
restaurant carving table; but sometimes at special dinners this noble dish 
may be on the menu, served with red-currant jelly and port- Haunch of 
wine sauce. This should not be jointed in any way, but dished Vemson. 
with the fat side upwards. It should be cut so that a portion of fat and 
one of lean, neither of them too thin, may be served on each plate with 
French beans if procurable. This is the orthodox way of carving a real 
haunch of mutton too; but, as before stated, it is not the most economi- 
cal way. 

Necks and loins of veal may be treated the same as pork, leaving out 
the apple sauce and sage and onions, of course. A fillet of veal with stuffing 
in the centre is treated as a round of beef. Almost everyone Veal, Ham, and 
can carve a ham, but those from the right side of the pig Tongue, 
are easier to manipulate than those from the left. A tongue may be cut 
from the centre, first using up the ends with the best slices in as neat 
a manner as possible. Practice, however, will do more for the reader than 
a volume full of instructions. 



248 RESTAURANT CATERING 

Tlie kind of fittings in the restaurant must depend on the amount of 
business done, but it is better to obtain appliances specially made for the 
Restaurant work required than to makeshift with any sort of expedient 
Fittings. which, as likely as not, may only serve to spoil the food after it 
is cooked. In restaurant business food has always to be kept in as good 
a condition as possible for some three or four hours after it is first ready, 
and it is on the way that things are managed during this waiting period 
that the satisfaction of customers depends. If the meat is made stringy 
by overcooking, or leathery by being dried, or the vegetables become 
stewed and sodden, the growth of trade becomes hopeless. Even for small 
restaurants useful appliances have been designed by which joints and 
vegetables can be kept in a condition nearly as good as when first cooked, 
and plates can be kept always hot, the whole requiring little outlay after 
the first cost of the apparatus. In the large restaurant much of the cooking 
is done by steam, and carving tables and other appliances are kept highly 
heated by the same means, the steam being carried by pipes from a pressure 
boiler situated in some place away from the kitchen. The carving table 
shown in fig. 166 (p. 242) does not require any separate steam supply, but is 
An Efficient entirely self-contained. Underneath the bottom steam-gener- 
Carving ating pan a patent atmospheric gas burner is provided. By 

^ ^' filling the generator with water and lighting the gas, steam 

is obtained in about thirty minutes. The steam is driven to the top of the 
hot closet, and the whole of the apparatus is made thoroughly hot. The 
gas can then be lowered sufficiently to keep the water boiling. The hot 
closet becomes charged with hot moist air, which does not dry up the food 
or give ofi" obnoxious fumes. 

The restaurant-keeper has to supply the legitimate wants of his cus- 
tomers, but has frequently to pander to their fads and idiosyncrasies. The 
grill room is an institution designed principally for this end. Some men 
are extremely particular as to the quality and condition of their chop or 

^, „., „ .„ steak when cooked. They like to select it while in the raw 
The Silver Gnll. , , .,.,,,.,,. ., 

state, and have it grilled m their presence on a "silver 

grill". It is only in very busy restaurants that this department can be 
made to pay the proprietor, as the grill cook may have very frequent 
intervals of waiting, and the usual prices obtained for grills are not suffi- 
cient to allow a very large margin. Although it may for a little please 
some customers to have a separate grill in a grill room, it is probably much 
more satisfactory and profitable in the long run to have the grills cooked 
in the kitchen, as part of the ordinary work, depending on the excellence 
of the cooking as the recommendation, and as compensation for the work 
being done out of sight. 

In the restaurant it is a good plan to have all the cold joints intended 
for the day's service set out in neat array on a long table in some con- 
Setting Out venient position near the entrance to the dining-rooms, so 
Cold Joints. ^j^^t customers when they enter may have their appetites 
or their fancy stimulated by the good-looking joints or cold sweets of any 



THE MANAGEMENT OF A RESTAUKANT 249 

kind. It is, of course, always necessary to keep the small and mean-looking 
joints out of sight, although they may appear on the menu if there is still 
good cutting on them. 

It is a growing feature in many restaurants of the middle class to 
supply a table d'hute luncheon or dinner at a very reasonable price — 
usually two prices, in fact, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. It is surprising Table d'H6te 
how many people enter a restaurant hungry, and have hardly Luncheons, 
any idea what they would like to eat. The luncheon on the menu gets 
over their uncertainty, and in most cases gives satisfaction because of its 
variety, when a choice from the ordinary menu may be very disappointing 
and more expensive. The table d'hote system has this advantage for the 
restaurant proprietor, that it secures something like an even consumption 
of all the dishes cooked for the day, and obviates the difficulty arising from 
the indiscriminate choice of customers, namely, a run on one dish and 
its speedy exhaustion, while another is partly wasted for the want of 
customers. The simplest and oldest form of a set luncheon or dinner with 
us is, of course, the old country hotel " ordinary", consisting country Hotel 
of a cut from the joint and two vegetables with pudding; Ordinary. 
but the modern restaurant is run on more ambitious lines, and follows the 
methods rather of the Continental caf^. There is nothing in the table d'h6te 
luncheon that is not offered also on the same day in the general menu, 
but the portions in the former are much smaller, and nicely graduated to 
the whole price charged; then in entries, or joints, or sweets, an alternative 
of one kind or another is allowed, and in some cases the customer is given 
the choice of soup or fish, and of sweets or cheese. The difference between 
the cheaper and dearer luncheons is usually less in kind than variety the 
in quantity and variety. Thus, for 2s. 6d. one course more Essential, 
may be provided, and the portions of each course made a little larger. 
Many menus might be given of popular luncheons of this kind, but the 
following, which is taken from the card of a successful provincial cafe, may 
serve as an indication of what can be profitably supplied, remembering at 
the same time that the washing up for this kind of trade is very largely 
increased over that required for meals d la carte. 

Table d'Hote, 2s. Gd. (Six Courses) 

Served from 12 noon to 3 p.m. Also from 6 to 9 p.m. 

Soup 
Consomme aux Nouilles. Thick spring. 

Fish Entrde 

Boiled haddock. Egg. Ice. Curried chicken. 

Joint 

Steak and kidney pudding. Roast lamb. 

Sweets. 
Raspberry and currant tart. Jam roll. 

Cheese 
VOL. TT. 92 



250 



RESTAURANT CATERING 



Special Table d'Hote (Five Courses) 

13 to 3, Is. 6d. 



Consomm^ aux Nouilles. Thick spring. 
Fillets sole. 



Steak and kidney pudding. Cutlets and peas. 

Fruit jellies. Stewed apples. 
Cheese 

The prices charged for dishes must depend on the locality, and the 
nature of the trade, but the following may be considered as reasonable 
anywhere. This is an actual menu from a popular West of England 
restaurant. 

Soups 



J. 


s. 


d. 


30 mins. Bordeaux pigeon en 






Real turtle, i6> wms. ... 


3 


6 


compote ... 


2 





Consomme vermicelli ... 





6 


Calf's head vinaigrette 


1 


6 


Consomme with poached egg . . . 





9 








Tomato soup ... 





6 


Savouries 






Gravy ... 





4 




s. 


d. 


Thick mock turtle soup 





6 


Anchovies, plain 





6 


Oxtail 





6 


Anchovies on toast 





8 


Mulligatawny ... 





6 


Buck rarebit ... 


1 





Consomme macedoine... 





6 


Macaroni au gratin 





10 


Thick vegetable 





6 


„ italienne... 





8 


Pea soup 





6 


„ milanaise 





8 








Sardines on toast 





8 


Fish 






Scotch woodcock 


1 











Soft roes on toast 





9 


Regulated by market prices. 


From 


Spaghetti au gratin 





9 




s. 


d. 


Welsh rarebit ... 





8 


10 ruins, fried or grilled sole ... 


1 


9 


Terrine de foie gras . . . from 


2 


6 


10 „ fillets of sole, vin blanc 


1 


9 


Astrakhan caviar . . .per pot 


3 


6 


10 „ lemon sole 


1 





Golden buck 





9 


10 „ whiting, tartare sauce 





10 








10 „ fillets of plaice, lemon 





10 


Beady Dishes 






10 „ hake steak ,, 





10 








10 „ cod steak „ 





10 


From 12 to 3 and 6 to 9. 




fi. 


Whitstable oysters (selected), 






Boiled haddock 





10 


with brown bread and butter, 






Fillets sole 







per dozen ... 


2 


6 


Salmon... 




6 








Curried chicken 




3 


Entries 






Roast lamb ... 




2 




s. 


d. 


Cutlets and peas 




3 


10 mins. ox tongue, sauce pi- 






Steak and kidney pudding 







quante 


1 


3 








10 „ mutton cutlets and 






Grill 






peas 


1 


3 




«. 


d. 


25 „ Surrey chicken saute 






Bordeaux pigeon 


1 


9 


chasseur ... 


2 





Chateaubriand, sauce bernaise 


4 





30 „ calf's sweetbread aux 






„ plain ... 


3 


6 


jus 


1 


6 


Entrec6te steak 


2 


6 



THE MANAGEMENT OF A RESTAURANT 



251 



Entrecote steak (double) 

Fillet steak 

Grilled bone ... 

„ devilled ... 

Grilled ham or bacon ... 
Half grilled fowl and ham 

„ chicken k la diable 

Kidneys (two), plain 



devilled 
toast 



or on 



Mutton chop ... 
Chump chop ... 
Mutton cutlets (two) . . . 
Porterhouse steak for two 
Sausages (two)... 
Rump steak 
Tomato... 
Steak and chips 

Sauces 

Horse radish ... 

Maitre d'hotel butter ... 

Tomato... 

Tartar or mayonnaise . . . 



Vegetables 



Braised onions... 

Braised tomatoes 

Cabbage 

French beans . . . 

Carrots ... 

Cauliflower 

Brussels sprouts 

Mashed turnips 

Spinach 

Peas 

New potatoes . . . 



Potatoes 



s. d. 

4 

1 3 

1 

1 3 

10 
3 
3 

1 

1 3 

10 



s. d. 

6 

4 

4 

4 



s. d. 

4 

6 

2 



Potatoes, boiled, 2d. Chips, M. 
Baked, Id. Fried, 2d. Lyonnaise, 4c?. 
Maitre d'hotel, 4c?. Mashed, 3c?. 
Saut6, 3c?. Straw, 3c?. 
Rissole, 4d 

Cold Joints, <&c. 

s. d. 

Lamb and mint sauce ... ... 1 

Roast beef 10 

York ham 10 

Ox tongues ... ... ... 1 

Surrey fowl, wing portion ... 1 6 

„ leg „ ... 1 3 

Chicken and ham or tongue ... 1 6 



Salads 



Potato ... 
Tomato... 
Mixed salad 
Celery ... 
Asparagus 



Sweets 



Meringues k la Chantilly 
Pineapple fritters 
Fruit salad, a spicialM 
Stewed apricots 
Stewed pears ... 
Apple tart and cream . . . 
Fruit tart in season . . . 
Ices 

F'l-uits 

Bananas 

Pineapple 

Oranges 

Grapes ... 

Tangerines 

Pears ... 

Raspberries and cream 



Cheese, &c. 



Camembert 
Cheddar 
Gruy^re 
Stilton ... 
Gorgonzola 



Sundries 



Small pot of tea for one 

CofFge, per cup, large with milk 

Coffee, Turkish, sp4cialit4 

Cream ... 

Two eggs with ham or bacon . . . 

Eggs, fried (two) 

Eggs on toast, poached 

Eggs, scrambled 

Mango chutney 

Milk, per glass... 

Omelette, cheese 

ham 

jam 

kirsch ... 

kidney 

plain 

rum ... 

savoury 

sugar 



s. 


d. 





4 





6 





6 





2 





8 


s. 


d. 





6 





6 


1 


6 





6 





G 





6 





6 





4 


s. 


d. 





2 





9 





2 


1 








2 





3 





6 


a. 


d. 





3 





2 





3 





3 





3 


s. 


d. 





3 





4 





6 





2 


1 








6 





8 





8 





2 





2 





8 





10 





8 


1 


3 


1 








8 


1 


3 





8 





8 



252 



KESTAUKANT CATERING 



Omelette, tomato 
Olives, Spanish 
Pancakes 
Pickles ... 

„ mixed ... 

„ onions ... 

„ piccalilli 
walnut... 



Soups 

Clear — Pontoise 

Mock turtle ... 

Sevign6 
Thick — Bisque de honiard 

Jenny Lind ... 

Puree game ... 

Fish 

Boiled turbot, prawn sauce ... 
Cod, oyster sauce 
Fried fillets of sole, tartar sauce 
Smelts, citron sauce ... 

Entries 

Tournedos and mushrooms ... 
Chicken saute a la Marengo . . . 
Sweetbreads and peas ... 
Curried fowls ... 
Braised ox tongue and spinach 
Mutton cutlets and grilled to- 
matoes 

Joints 

Sirloin of beef, Yorkshire 
Saddle of mutton 
Fillet of veal and bacon 

Poultry, Game 

Roast duck, apple sauce 
Boiled fowl, celery sauce and 

ham ... 
Roast pheasant and chips 

Sweets 

Apple and cranberry tart 
Herodotus pudding 
Wine jelly 
Pears and cream 
Compote of fruits 



s. 


d. 




8. 


d. 


1 





Red-currant jelly 


. 


2 





6 


Sardines 


. 


6 





4 


Sandwiches 


. 


3 





2 


Roll or bread ... 


. 


1 





2 


Butter ... 


. 


1 





2 


Dry toast 


. 


2 





2 


Buttered toast ... 


. 


3 





2 


Biscuits... 


. 


2 


of 


a popular London suburban restaurant: 


— 






Grill 


8, 


d. 


s. 



d. 

6 


Rump steak 




6 





6 


Mutton chop ... 










6 


Kidneys and bacon 










6 


Mixed grill 










6 


Devilled leg 










6 


Fowl and ham ... 











Cold Dishes 


8, 


d. 




d. 


York ham 


. 


10 





10 


Ribs of beef 


. 


10 





10 


Galantine of chicken ... 


. 


10 





10 


Ox tongue 


. 


10 





10 


Fowl and ham ... 


. 


10 






Vegetables 


s. 


d. 


s* 


d. 


Potatoes — ^Boiled, fried, saute, 




1 


3 


mashed, rissoles, roast 


. 


3 


I 


3 


Cauliflower, sprouts, cabbage. 


. 


3 


1 


3 


Braised leeks, dressed spinach. 




1 


3 


peas ... 


. 


3 


1 


3 


Sundries 


s. 


d. 


1 


3 


Boiled egg 


. 


2 






Poached egg on toast ... 


. 


4 






Omelette, savoury 


. 


6 


s. 


d. 


Omelette, sweet 


. 


6 


1 





Sardines on toast 


. 


6 


1 





Welsh rarebit . . 


. 


6 


1 





Tomato salad ... 


. 


4 






French salad .. 


. 


6 






Plain salads 


. 


4 


s. 


d. 


Lettuce 


. 


2 


1 


6 


Watercress 


. 


2 






Pickles 


. 


2 


1 


6 


Chutney 


. 


2 


1 


6 


Butter ... 


. 


1 






Cheese ... 


. 


2 






Tea, cup 


. 


3 


s. 


d. 


„ pot, roll and butter 


. 


5 





6 


Coff'ee, cup 


. 


3 





6 


Cocoa „ 


. 


3 





6 


Chocolate, cup... 


. 


4 





6 


Roll and butter 


. 


2 





6 


Toast, buttered, per round 


. 


2 




o 
o 

CQ 

:d 
-J 
u 

Q 
z 

< 



O 
O 

a: 

< 

UJ 



o 

UJ 

X 
O 
c/) 



LUNCHEON AND TEA ROOMS 253 

Some of the dishes here given are seasonal, and would be left out of 
the menu when not in season or not to be obtained at a reasonable price. 
It is always better to charge a moderate price and secure Dishes in 
many customers than to be exacting and secure only a few. Season. 
It is the appearance and general air of the restaurant that secure the 
popularity and large clientele, and not the exclusiveness which is ob- 
tained by high prices. The best kind of customer of moderate Moderate 
means likes everything clean and quiet and comfortable, and Charges, 
above all likes to be courteously or even genially treated, but never objects 
to be moderately charged. Moderate charges in fact confirm such cus- 
tomers, and induce them to make the restaurant their home from home, 
where they entertain their friends, and bring their acquaintances as cus- 
tomers also. 



CHAPTER XLVIII 

LUNCHEON AND TEA EOOMS 



There is no clear line of demarcation between the restaui'ant proper and 
the modern luncheon and tea room. The restaurant is assumed to supply 
substantial and hot meals at almost any hour of the day or Definition of 
evening; the luncheon room confines its hot luncheons to a ^ ^^* Room, 
few hours in the middle of the day, but supplies cold meats, tea, coflfee, &c., 
at any time during business hours; the tea room is open for the vending 
of tea, coflfee, cocoa, milk, aerated waters, &c., the hot-meat dishes being 
confined for the most part to chops and steaks, while cold meats sold are 
in the form of sandwiches, pies, patties, or plates of ham or cold beef with 
salad. A luncheon room can only be profitably conducted in those neigh- 
bourhoods where a good many business people, clerks, &c., are employed, 
who live too far from their homes to enable them to go there for their 
midday meal. The tea room thrives best at popular resorts in the country, 
or at the seaside, or in shopping and busy thoroughfares in towns, where 
people may M-ant refreshments of a light sort to tide over the few hours 
till they return home. It is a mistake to endeavour to make a restaurant 
trade in a neighbourhood only suited for a tea shop, but it is equally a 
mistake to keep the latter kind of establishment with no sort of substan- 
tial fare on the menu. There are always a good many customers who do not 
care for sweetmeats, even with tea or coflfee, and it is well to have some- 
thing savoury to offer them. The tendency is for the tea- Savouries in 
room establishments to broaden their menu towards that of '^^^ Shops, 
the restaurant. This tendency is especially noticeable in London, where 
the remarkable success of one large catering company in the tea-shop line 
has been in great part due to the variety on its menu, while the seemingly 
declining fortune of another large company, longer established, is probably 
due to the narrowness of its methods and the persistence in character of 



254 



RESTAURANT CATERING 

The menu and prices of a 



supplies of which people have become weary 
leading London firm are given here. 



Tariff of Leading Tea Shops 



Special To-day 
Blackberry and apple tart, 2d. 

Tea Specialities 
Rock buns, Madeleine cakes, Congress 
tarts, jam tarts, shortbreads, sponge 
sandwiches, cocoanut, macaroon, and 
raspberry buns, each \d. 

Beverages 
China tea, per cup 2d.; per pot per 

person 3o?. 
Tea freshly made for each peison, per 

cup 2d. ; per pot per person M. 
Coffee, per cup 2d. 

„ black, per cup (small) 2d. 
„ „ „ (large) 3d. 

Chocolate (speciality), per cup 2d. 
Cocoa, per cup 2d. 
Milk, per glass Id. 

„ (hot), per glass Id. ; per cup 2d. 
Cream (preserved). Id. and 2d. 
Bovril with hot milk, per cup 3d. 
„ with biscuits, „ 3d. 
Egg and milk, 3d. 

Soda and milk, small Ihd.; large 3d. 
Caley's table waters, 2d. 

„ brewed ginger beer, 2d. 
Proset, per bottle 2d. and 3d. 
Schweppe's lemonade, large id. 

„ soda, seltzer, and potass 

waters, large 4o?. 
„ ginger ale," dry "or "sweet", 

large 4d. 
Lemon squash, id. 

Rose's lime juice cordial, per glass 2d. 
„ lime juice cordial and soda, small 

3d. 
„ lime juice cordial and soda, large 
id. 

Hot Meat, Pies, &c. Served from 12 till 3 

Stewed steak with tomato sauce, M. 
Curried beef with rice, per portion ^d. 
Irish stew, per portion 6 J. 



Steak and kidney pie, per portion 6rf. 
Rumpsteakand kidney pudding, each 6(/. 
Veal patties, each 3d. 

Vegetables 
Potatoes, per portion 2d. 
Macaroni with tomato sauce, 2d. 
Fresh spinach, 2d. 

Fresh spinach and poached eggs, 6(/. 
Haricot beans with tomato sauce, 2d. 

Cold Meats 
Veal and ham pie, per portion M. 
Veal, ham, and Qgg pies, each M. 
Roast beef, per plate 6d 
Pressed beef or ham or tongue, per 
plate id. 

Cold Fish 

Fried fillets of fish (two pieces), per 

portion 6c?. 
Fish rissoles, each 3d. 
Soused herrings, each 2d. 

Sweets 
Baked apple dumplings, each 3d. 
Baked pear puddings, each 3d. 
Marmalade pudding, per portion 3c?. 
Tapioca pudding, per portion, 3d. 
Bananas with cream or custard, 3d. 
Fruit pudding, each 3c?. 
College pudding, each 3d. 
Stewed figs, 2c?. ; with custard or cream, 

3d. 
Stewed apples, 2d.; with custard or 

cream, 3d. 
Stewed prunes, 2c?. ; with cream, custard, 

or rice, 3c?. 
Fruit tart (cold), 3d. ; with cream, id. 
Rice and jam, per portion 3c?, 
Trifle with custard, 3c?. 

Sundries 
Soft herring roes on toast, per portion 

2d. 
Butter, per pat \d. 



LUNCHEON AND TEA KOOMS 



255 



Canadian Cheddar cheese, per portion 

Id. 
Ham sandwiches, each 2d. 
Welsh rarebit, per portion 3c?. 
Poached eggs on toast, 6<^. 
Poached eggs on macaroni, 6d. 
Eggs, boiled, hard boiled, or poached, 

each 2c?. 
Croquettes (veal, ham, and tongue), 2d. 
Smoked breakfast sausage. Is. each; 

portion 3c?. 
Cambridge or smoked sausages, each 2d. 
Sardines on toast, 4(/. 
Sardines, each Id. 
Pickles (Lazenby's), Id. 
Chutney, per portion Id. 
Tomatoes, per portion 2d. and 3d. 



Bread, Cakes, and Pastries 

Batons or crescents, 4 for 3|c?., 

for 6c?.; each Ic?. 
Bread and butter, two slices Ic?. 
Bread, per portion Ic?. 
Kusks, ^d. each, with butter lie?. 
Bath bun, 2c?. 
Plain bun, Id. 
Biscuits, various, 1^. 



or 



Chocolate wafers, Id. 

Ginger biscuits, Ic?. 

Cake, cherry, per piece 2d. 

almond pound, per piece 2d. 

Dundee, per piece 2c?. 

Genoa, per piece 2c?. 

lunch, per piece Ic?. 

sultana, per piece 2d. 

seed, per piece 2c?. 

tennis, per piece 2d. 
Scotch gingerbread, per piece Ic?. 
„ oatcake, Id. 
„ shortbread, rich, 2c?. 
Swiss roll, piece 2d. 
French pastries, each 2c?. 
Viennese pastry, piece 2d. 
Russian pastries, each 2d. 
Lemon cheese cakes, each 2c?. 
Meringues with cream, each 2c?. 
Scones, sultana, each 2d. 

,, half toasted, with butter, 2c?. 
Toast, dry, per round Ic?. 
Toast, buttered, per round 2d. 
Toasted bun or sultana scone, each 2d. 
Jam, apricot, black currant, raspberry, 

or strawberry. Id. 
Honey or marmalade, Id. 



To ensure success it is not necessary that a light-refreshment establish- 
ment should be elaborately fitted or luxuriantly furnished, but it should 

be at once dainty and cosy. It gives a decided air of sub- _, ^ 

. ,., , "^ , , n ,1 , , ,, The Crockery, 

stantiality to a place when all the crockery has the name 

of the proprietor or of the tea room printed on it; but whatever kind of 

crockery- ware is in use it should, as nearly as possible, be all of one pattern, 

and cracked or chipped cups and saucers should on no account be offered 

to customers. A warning on this point may seem unnecessary, but in 

some establishments that make pretension to respectability, and that are 

well patronized, cracked and chipped cups and saucers are much too 

common, and in consequence customers are loud in complaints; and these 

firms seem to be gradually losing their position in the front rank. 

People used at home to having their meals set before them in a clean, 

tidy, and enticing fashion, resent any tendency to slovenliness in a 

luncheon or tea room, feel the food distasteful, and regard such service 

as discourteous. What is true of crockery-ware is even more Dirty 

true with regard to clean cloths on the tables. It may Tabiecovers. 

not be always possible to use the finest damask tabiecovers in an ordinary 

second-class tea room, but a quite common tablecloth perfectly clean is 



256 



RESTAURANT CATERING 



inlinitely better than tlie finest material with stains of one kind and 
another over it. Even quite plain people do not like to eat meals in the 
vicinity of stains on the tablecloth made by other people. It is not always 
convenient in the rush of business to change tablecloths, and the usual 
thing is to spread a serviette over any accidental stains made by a cus- 
tomer; but it is better, and not more expensive, to keep special cloths for 
the purpose, that seem as if placed on the table for ornament rather than 
to hide blemishes. The rule in all tea rooms is to have waitresses, and 
Civil the kind of waitresses secured has a very great influence in 

Waitresses, determining the success or failure of the business. It is en- 
tirely doubtful how far familiarity of the waitresses with customers tends 

to good business. Familiarity is 
prone to develop very quickly 
into giggling and " larking ", and 
whenever this becomes prevalent 
in a tea room staid and quiet 
people, who in most cases con- 
stitute the majority of customers, 
are turned away, as they find 
that they are hardly treated with 
attention when the customers of 
the other sort, who may be much 
less profitable, are present. 

It is still a vexed question how 
far the system of tipping should 
be allowed to go in tea rooms. 
Several of the large London res- 
taurants ask customers not to give gratuities to waitresses, but these notices 
Tipping have by no means stopped the pi-actice, and the fault probably 
System. i[qq more with the customers than with the proprietors of the 
establishments or the waitresses. All things considered, it is much better 
for the success of a tea room that tipping should be entirely discouraged. 
Payment yet it seems necessary to have some system of paying by 
by Returns, vesults, to ensure that the attendants feel, and therefore show 
that they are pleased to serve customers. The method generally adopted 
is to pay a definite commission on the amount taken at each waitress's 
tables. This system is an incentive to the waitress to be solicitous that 
the customer has as much as possible, and the customer, in turn, is pleased 
with the attention bestowed to that end. It is much better to give the 
waitresses a direct interest in the business by some such method than to 
regulate all their actions by rule. There can be such a thing as over- 
regulation. 

Equally important with the cleanliness and efficiency of service is the 
quality of the refreshments supplied. Although tea rooms are intended 
for eating as well as for liquid refreshment, it is on the latter that the 
reputation of an establishment very often depends. Even men are par- 




Fig. 169.— Jacketed Butter-cooler 



LUNCHEON AND TEA ROOMS 



liO/ 



ticular about the quality of tea or coffee they drink, and will patr-onize the 
shop at which their taste is best suited. Bread should always be nicely 
cut, and butter, even in summer, should always be firm. 

One of the constant troubles in a tea room is to secure regularity, and 
this is impossible when waitresses are allowed to spoon out of the teacaddy 
to the teapot, while it is troublesome to have portions for each teapot ready 

weighed or measured into 
small packets. In the 
hurry of business it is a 
common mistake, when the 
latter plan is followed, foi* 

the attendant Uniformity 

to use a packet °f Quality, 
prepared for one person in 
a teapot intended for two, 
with the result that the 
tea is very weak. The 
customer thus treated may 
make no complaint at the 
moment, but will shun that 
shop in the future, while 
the attendant who com- 
mitted the mistake may be 
quite unconscious of any 
fault. If tea must be 
measured at the moment it 
is wanted, small measures 
should be kept for the pur- 
pose for one or two or more 
persons; or measures for 
one and two may suffice, to 
be filled more than once if 
the number to one teapot 
is more. An ingenious tea- 
measuring machine (fig. 
170) can be obtained for 
fixing on the counter, 
which delivers quantities 
of tea directly into the teapot, accurately measured for the number of 
persons. This machine is accurate in its measurements, thus ensuring 
uniformity of strength to customers, and also effecting a considerable 
saving in tea; but not the least important of the uses of the machine 
is the record it keeps of the number of pots of tea actually supplied. It 
can be accurately adjusted to deliver a definite quantity of tea into the 
teapot; then it cannot be tampered with or changed, except by someone 
in authority. 




Fig. 170— Tea- measuring Machine 



Vol- II. 



93 



258 



KESTAUKANT CATERING 



It is not usual in high-class tea rooms to keep tea made in bulk and 
to sell it out in cups, but we cannot all be high-class caterers, and in 
Coffee-house working-class neighbourhoods, or in the vicinity of factories, 
'^^^- there is profit to be made out of the trade in tea in pints and 

half-pints, or in cups. For this purpose a strong, large urn is required. 
An illustration of a cheap. urn of this kind is here given (fig. 171). The tea 
is enclosed in a muslin bag and placed in the water at boiling temperature 
until it is sufficiently " drawn ". The bag is then taken out, and the tea is 
kept warm, without deterioration, as long as required, by the boiling water 

in the outer portion of the urn. 
A better plan is to make the tea 
in a separate "brew-pot" and only 
keep it warm in the urn. Tea or 
hot water can be drawn off as 
required by the taps provided. 

A more showy and more efficient 
apparatus (fig. 172) has a special 
lining of earthenware. A, with an 
outer jacket containing the hot 
water. The dome shape at the 
top is an arrangement by which 
the condensed steam is carried 
into the outer water jacket, and 
not into the earthenware lining 
with the tea. The sloping bottom 
of the inner lining, as shown in 
the illustration, allows the whole 
of the contents to be drawn off 
without tilting the urn, so that the 
following brew is not contamin- 
ated by mixture with stale tea or 
coffee, as in the case of urns fitted 
with flat-bottom inner linings. 
A more elaborate piece of apparatus (fig. 173) contains two patent 
sloping-bottom earthenware jars, a jug for hot milk, and a water-boiler, 
Combination and in centre is a small hot closet or pastry-warmer, with a 
Appliance. drop -down door. A combination apparatus of this kind is 
extremely useful for the confectioner who serves teas and coffees with hot 
pies or pastries, and who has not room in his shop or on the counter for 
separate urns and warmers for each purpose. With this, coffee and tea 
can both be made, and kept hot as long as necessary, and hot milk and 
pastries supplied with the minimum of trouble and at a very small cost 
for heat. In these cutting times all economies of this sort have to be 
studied. 

In all the counter urns already noticed the coffee is, as a rule, made by 
boiling in what is called the ordinary way, but lovers of coffee prefer to 




Fig. 171— Cheap Tea Urn 




o 
o 

o 

z 
z 

Q 

Q 
z 

< 

z 

O 

X 

o 

Z 

-J 

C/) 
CO 

< 

-J 
CJ 

i 

O 
x. 

O 

UJ 

DC 
U 



LUNCHEON AND TEA ROOxMS 



259 



Good Coffee. 



have it made on what is called the percolating system, or by some method 
of distillation by which the full natural flavour of the coffee is preserved. 
An ornate combination urn, which the patentees have named 
the "Criterion", can be obtained, which produces excellent 
coffee and tea and hot water. It is claimed for this machine that one 
brew of coffee after another can be obtained without waiting, and that 
it is impossible to draw water from the machine unless it is boiling, so that 
all the conditions are present for properly infusing the tea. The percolating 




Fig. 172.— Superior Tea Urn: General View and Section 



box which contains the ground coffee, through which the boiling water is 
forced and extracts the crude essence, is shown at the left-hand side of the 
illustration (fig. 174). The water supply is regulated by a head valve from 
the water main; the gas supply is regulated automatically so as to rise or 
fall as required to keep the apparatus up to boiling pitch. 

Caterers are now paying much more attention to the manufacture 
of coffee than they did a dozen or so years ago. The siphons for Coffee 
essence -of -coffee bottle was at one time the common without Grounds, 
resort, and although the coffee made from such a source was better 



260 



EESTAURANT CATERING 



than the product of the stewed grains made from burnt beans, it was 
not satisfactory. Something like continental care is now taken with 
coffee manufacture. In some of the leading refreshment establishments 
what are called siphon coffee machines are used. The illustrations of 
single and double machines of this type here shown (figs. 175 and 
176) will make the working of the apparatus quite clear. Each ball 
has a capacity of about 1 gal. The ground coffee is placed in the 
long jar, and the quantity required of boiling water poured over it. 
About half a cupful of hot w^ater is at the same time poured into 




Fig. 173.- -The Confectioner's Patent Double Urn. 

the metal ball. The siphon is then fitted tight into the ball, the per- 
forated end being allowed to rest on the bottom of the jar. When all 
the water in the ball is driven over into the jar as steam the bubbling 
noise in the jar will cease, the gas under the bottle is then extinguished, 
and a vacuum being created in the ball the infusion of coffee passes 
over through the siphon. No coffee grounds pass with it, and it can be 
kept hot and in perfect condition with a very small flame. The contents 
of the ball, which is pivoted on two stout pillars, can be poured into cups 
as required by simply tipping the ball forward. 

Another type of coffee-making machine (fig. 177) is now in use in many 
Percolating large establishments and gives complete satisfaction. 

Coffee Machines. This machine works on the principle of a percolator. The 
water is poured first into the bottom vessel, and the ground coffee into 



LUNCHEON AND TEA ROOMS 



261 



the top one. There is an atmospheric burner under the bottom vessel. 
As soon as tlie water boils, which will be seen when steam blows off at 
the relief tap, that tap is turned off and the pressure of the steam forces 
the water into the top vessel amongst the coffee. This is allowed to brew 
for some time, and when sufficient the gas is turned out and the relief 
tap opened, then the coffee infusion will return to the lower vessel and 
may be drawn off as required in the usual way. A small jet of gas can 




Fig. 174.— "Criterion" Coffee aud Tea Urn 



be lighted to keep the coffee infusion hot. When either of the last two 
types of machines are in use for coffee-making, it is necessary to have 
a small hotplate on which to keep the small coffee-pots, if it is served in 
these, and the milk jugs with milk quite hot, or all the care in coffee- 
making will be wasted if it is served in cold coffee-pots or with half- 
warmed milk. If the top of a suitable urn is not available for the purpose 
a small counter hotplate as shown in fig. 178 serves the purpose Counter 
well, and a few small plated coffee-pots and milk jugs on a Hotplate, 
plate of this kind gives the shop or tea room quite a smart and cosy 



26*2 



REST AU RAIN T CATERING 



appearance. Or, if there is a 
trade in pots of tea, an oval 
water-boiler with a flat top as 
Water-boiler shown in flg. 
and Hotplate. 179 is a suitable 
arrangement for keeping milk 
hot and heating tea, coffee, 
and chocolate pots. For the 
usual supply of hot water 
where only a moderate trade 
is done, this form of water- 
boiler is quite efficient and 
gives the shop a nice appear- 
ance. 

To meet the needs of larger 
trades an ingenious piece of 
apparatus (fig. 180) is in the 
market which is a combina- 
Combined tion of a water- 
Appliances, boiler, coffee - in- 
fuser, and milk-warmer. The 

centre body is a water-boiler of 6 gal. capacity, fitted with a gauge glass to 
indicate the quantity of water in boiler. The watiir cannot be drawn oft 




Fig. 175.— Siphon Coffee Machine 




Fig. 176. —Double Siphon Coffee Machine 



LUNCHEON AND TEA ROOMS 



263 



unless it boils. Coffee is infused in a silver-plated infuser placed in one of 
the side urns, by means of the delivery tube on top of boiler. The other 
side urn is intended for hot milk or chocolate, and both jars are fitted 
with sloping bottom linings. A smaller and cheaper arrangement for the 
same purpose of supplying water, coffee, chocolate, and hot milk is shown 





Fig. 178.— Counter Hotplate 



Mg. 177. — CoSee-infusing Machine 




Fig. 179.— Oval Water-boiler 



in fig. 181. The jugs, as shown, have a capacity of about 3 pt. each. 
The sloping bottom jar in centre for coffee holds 1 gal. The body holds 
about 3^ gal. of water for making pots of tea, &c. This type of urn has 
a homely and comfortable appearance about it that makes it very suit- 
able for, say, a confectioner's shop in which the refreshment business 
consists only of teas, coffees, &c. 

In refreshment bars, coffee and tea rooms, and other establishments 
where a quick and large supply of boiling water is needed, the counter hot- 



264 



RESTAURANT CATERING 




Fig. 180— Water-boiler, Coffee-infuser, and Milk-warmer combined 



water fountain, an illustration of which is here shown (fig. 182), is a very 
Boiling-water efficient appliance, and has the advantage of taking up very 
^^^^^^- little room on the counter, while the boiling water can be 

drawn oft, at least for all ordinary purposes of supplying pots of tea, as 




Fig. 181. — Combination Water-boiler, Coffee and Milk Warmer 




U- 

Q 

< 
U 

Z 

< 

< 
cn 

LU 
X 

z 

LU 
X 

u 

O 
Q 

LU 
X 

H 

LU 

o 



o 

m 
z 



LUNCHEON AND TEA EOOMS 



265 



quickly as a staff of waitresses can carry them away. In this illustration 
there are two pipes shown, one to carry off the gas fumes, and the other to 
supply boiling water. The pillars are polished and nickel -plated, and in 
consequence have a bright and ornamental appearance standing up from the 




Fig. 182.— Fountain Hot-water Pillar 



counter. The water supply to the boiler underneath is automatic, and the 
gas is also automatically regulated so that no more is used than necessary 
to keep the water boiling. This sort of fountain is being extensively 
adopted in the refreshment bars of railway stations, and other places where 
the hot-water requirements are intermittent but needed in considerable 
quantity for short periods. 



VOL. II. 



94 



266 RESTAURANT CATERING 

A more elaborate fountain of the same type as that described above is 
shown in fig. 183. This combined appliance, besides the boiling- water pillar, 
has a twin coffee-extractor, a hot-milk urn, and an egg-steamer. The whole 




Fig. 183.— Water Pillar, Coffee-extractor, Milk Uru, aud Ejjg-steaiiier 

is worked by the steam from the boiler underneath the counter, and by 
Steam Counter one gas burner which is raised or lowered automatically. 
Combination. "phe water Supply to the boiler is also automatic, but cannot 
be drawn off till boiling. The coffee is made by placing the required amount 
of coffee in the percolating box in the vessel, and then turning the boiling- 
water tap on till sufficient coffee is extracted, the quantity being shown on 



LUNCHEON AND TEA EOOMS 267 

the gauge glass. By repeating this operation with the second vessel a 
continuous supply of coffee can be maintained. 

From the illustrations here given and the description of appliances 
the extent to which this light -refreshment business has developed within 
recent years can to some extent be gauged. When carefully managed, and 
the neighbourhood is suitable, this form of catering can Profits in 
be made very profitable; but it is one of the conditions ^°°'" Districts. 
of success that the trade catered for is nicely adjusted to the character of 




Fig. 184.— Form of Water-boiler witli Coffee and Milk Jars on top 

the neighbourhood. In poor or in working-class districts there is money 
to be made with refreshments if the class of goods sold and the price is 
adjusted to the wants of the customers; but even in places of this kind it 
is the wisest economy to have all the appliances, down to the salts and 
mustards, as nice as possible, even if plain, and counter appliances cannot 
be too bright or too smart looking. 

As part of the menu in working and middle class neighbourhoods, espe- 
cially for midday and evening sales, consists of hot puddings, pies or 
pastries, while little other cooking is done, two forms are here shown of 



268 



RESTAUEANT CATERING 




Vig. 185.— Steam Cooker, No. 1 



Fig. 186.— Steam Cooker, No. 2 



Self-Steaming self-generating steam cookers to be used with gas (figs. 185 
Cookers. ^^j 186). No. 1 is a comparatively light cheap appliance, 

and can be used with gas stand, range, or gas stove. The steam is gene- 




Fiji. 187.— Counter Pie-warmer 



BAKERY OVENS 269 

rated in the bottom of the closet, and a passage is provided on the inner 
side of the door by which the condensed steam which runs down the door 
is conveyed back into the water well, thus preventing the waste and 
annoyance caused by the water running down outside. The jacketed 
same appliance is also made as a jacketed food and plate Pie-warmer, 
warmer, so that the generated steam is conveyed in such a way that the 
whole body and shelves are made very hot, but without allowing any steam 
to come into contact with the contents. No. 2 is a stronger and more 
expensive appliance. It is fitted with a copper steam generator, and is 
jacketed. The hot air from the gas burner is conducted through the 
jacket and out of the flue at the top. This keeps the counter Pastry- 
cooker very hot, and makes the oven at the top very warmer and 
suitable as a plate- warmer, or for heating pies, &c. When ° P ^ 6- 
a small hot closet for counter use only is required, for hot pies, pastry, &c., 
something ornamental should be provided. Fig. 187 shows an appliance 
of this kind. While the inside can be used for the purposes named the 
top serves as a teapot-heater, or for keeping milk, coffee, or chocolate warm. 



CHAPTER XLIX 

BAKERY OVENS 



Having now dealt exhaustively with the part of the scheme relating 
to restaurants and catering, we may take up the threads of the story 
of the bakery so far as concerned with its fixtures and fittings and with 
equipment of machinery, &c. 

When one opens a new bakery or takes over an old one there is no 
part of the fixtures to which more attention should be paid than the 
ovens. The youth anxious to make a start on his own importance of 
account somehow, is prone to think that any kind of oven Good Ovens, 
will do for a start, and is not particular enough as to his requirements 
in his agreement with the landlord; or if he pays for the oven himself 
chooses one that is cheap to construct without satisfying himself that 
it is also efficient and economical to heat and use. When an oven is 
gluttonous for fuel and loses heat quickly on account of bad construc- 
tion, the accumulating yet unseen waste from these sources may really 
make what would otherwise be a profitable business into one in which 
ends do not meet. 

The essentials in an oven are that it should be an efficient baker in 
which top and bottom heat should always bear a steady relation to each 
other, and yet one in which it is possible to produce top Essentials of 
or flash heat at will; after being solidly heated it should ^ Good Oven. 
be so constructed as not to lose heat except in performing the work for 
which it has been designed; it should be easy to heat with only a moderate 



270 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

quantity of fuel. That an oven should be clean may be considered as an 
extra essential — not because cleanness in itself is not wholly desirable, but 
because it is quite possible to have an oven that in ordinary circumstances 
may appear not clean, and yet by care and systematic cleaning can be made 
to satisfy the most exacting in the clean and efficient manner in which it 
can be made to bake all that is required, while on the other hand there are 
ovens in which every care has been taken to ensure cleanliness and yet out 
of which goods may be produced in a dirty condition. It is noticeable 
that when everything has been done to prevent dirt or dust in the oven, 
the bakers may readily take much less care to remove that which does 
accumulate than in the other case where the removal of dust, &c., is so 
necessary a part of the routine work before any baking whatever can be 
done. This is the explanation of the fact that the cleanness of the goods 
from such types of ovens as the Scotch or the side-flue compares very 
favourably with the goods from the steam-pipe and other types of exter- 
nally heated ovens. 

The bright exterior and ornamental fittings of an oven, desirable as 
these may be, are also to be classed as extras. They give an air of 
Value of brightness and lightness to a bakery that are not without 
Appearance, effect on the men, who may on account of their surroundings 
become brighter and go about their work in a better and more active 
spirit, which is a factor in the production of good work. But embellish- 
ments do not add to the efficiency of an oven, while they may add very 
materially to its cost. Yet when the substantiality of the structure is 
assured, and the furnace, wherever it is situated, is made of material that 
will withstand the enormous heat to which it will be subjected, when the 
doors are proved to be tight and properly fitted, then there are some kinds 
of ornamentation that should always be preferred even if they do add 
slightly to the cost. Thus all the bright work about oven doors, and wheels 
and rods to work doors of drawplates, should be plated instead of being 
merely polished. The plating detracts nothing from their strength, lasts 
about as long as the fittings, and prevents constant rusting by the steam 
from the oven. Whenever possible the front wall of an oven should be 
of glazed brick with one or two rows of coloured bricks as relief from the 
pure white. 

Those about to build ovens are always anxious to know which is the "best 
The Best oven ", and nearly every oven-builder is prepared to vouch that 
Oven. }^ig ig ^jje ]3ggf; It is surprising what results can be secured 

with care out of the oldest and oldest-fashioned ovens. But as there has 
been a constant change in the manner of heating ovens, although not neces- 
sarily in the ovens themselves, there was evidently a demand for the 
changes, and they have had a marketable value, although not all the 
changes have really been improvements. 

Simplest Kind The very simplest kind of oven, examples of which are 
of Oven. st,iii in daily use in our own and in many other countries, 

consists of a single brick or stone structure with no opening whatever 



BAKERY OVENS 



271 



into it except the oven door. That door may be a simple iron plate with- 
out hinges but with two handles. The chimney, which is generally a wide 
aperture, is above the oven stock, and has no direct communication with 
the oven chamber, or indeed with the fire the gaseous products of which 
it is required to carry away, except the same aperture that serves for the 
oven door. Fig. 188 shows a section of such an oven and indicates roughly 
the manner of heating. Some forty years ago ovens of this type were 
almost universal in country towns in Scotland, in Ireland, and generally 
in the south of England. In Ireland the fuel burned was peat, a heap 
of which was set alight in the centre or at one side of the oven, on the 
bottom without any furnace bars; when this was partly burned down the 
remains of the fire were scattered over the whole oven bottom, and left till 
the embers burned out. 



In the English type of 
ovens of this class the 
fuel burned was mostly 
wood. Faggots were 
set alight in one side of 
the oven or in several 
places at the same time, 
but always on the oven 
bottom, and these with 
additions were allowed 
to burn till the whole 
oven was sufficiently 
heated. The air supply, 
to burn the peat or 
wood as the case might 

be, entered by the oven door, and the products of combustion found a 
passage to the chimney through the upper part of the same door. The 
English and Irish types of this class of oven had a flue, opening directly 
into the oven, long before the same arrangements were adopted in connec- 
tion with the Scotch type. The burning of the fuel in the former type was 
conducted with closed door and open damper. 

The Scotch ovens of the old type, which will be vividly remembered by 
some of the older men still actively engaged in the trade, were old Scotch 
mostly built of stone, except perhaps the crown. The stone Ovens, 
bottom or sole was about 6 or 8 in. thick, generally laid on a bed of sand 
solidly filled underneath with stones or gravel. The door, generally referred 
to as the " back ", was set in position when the oven was being heated in 
the manner shown in the section (fig. 188) by the dotted line, the sloping 
position being maintained by a brick placed under the handles. In this 
case as coal was the commoner fuel, especially in the districts where coal 
was comparatively plentiful, a form of grating had to be used so that the 
draught might get fairly under the fire. Fig. 189 represents such a grating. 
This was cast all in one piece, and stood on three short feet about 2 in. 




I'ig. 188.— Section of Old-type Oven for Peat or Wood 



272 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 




Fig. 189.— Corner Chaffer for Coal- 
fired Scotch Oven 



high. It was pushed into the corner of the oven by using an iron hook on 
a wooden handle. There was an iron fender (fig. 190) placed in position 

around it to keep the great heap of coal which 
formed the night's fire in position on the 
"chafier bottom". The procedure in heating 
the oven was to pile on about a hundredweight 
of coal — ordinary soft kind — on a fire already 
made with wood at night after the day's work 
was done, and to set the " back " on the slope 
so that there was an opening about 3 in. wide 
at the top. This arrangement kept the coal 
burning very slowly for twelve or thirteen 
hours, the oven chamber for the first part of the 
time being filled with thick smoke and a dull 
red flame, but afterwards with a moderately 
bright fire, really of coke, after all the gaseous 
matter had been driven out of the coal and 
burned. The radiation from this fire, continued 
as it was for several hours, was sufficient, along with the hot currents of 
jj, . heated products from it, to heat the oven interior thoroughly. 

of the Old The first work in the morning was to draw the greater part of 
Scotch Oven. ^-^^ remaining fire from the oven, leaving sufficient to retain 
a strong top heat for the baking of morning goods and sufficient to light 
the clumps of wood that were thrown on when the 
top heat required to be augmented. The heat in 
ovens of this type was necessarily "solid", because 
the whole structure of the oven was solid and was 
heated in all its material to a high degree of inten- 
sity. The sole or bottom of the oven, made of thick 
stone, retained its heat for the whole day's baking; 
the crown, which at its centre was never less than 
3 ft. from the sole, was also well heated, and on 
account of a thick layer of soot which always covered 
it the heat was radiated slowly, and the solid brick 
thus retained its heat for a long time. It was part 
of the ordinary routine work of the bakery to re- 
move the soot from the oven crown with a long 
rough brush at least three times a week, and the 
combustion of coal was so incomplete that pendants 
of soot 1^ or 2 in. long completely covered the back 
of the oven crown. When the batch was about to 
be set the fire was completely drawn from the oven, so that the bread 
was baked in a heated and rather dirty stone pot. With such an oven 
the greatest skill and care were needed on the part of the workmen to 
ensure cleanness of the goods baked, and as customers would not take them 
otherwise the use of those old ovens served as an excellent training of 




Fig. 190.— Fender 



BAKERY OVENS 



273 




Fig. 191.— Oven Blowei- 



careful workmen, and dirty and troublesome as they were some old-school 
bakers were loth to part with them even when something better was 
offered. It is doubtful if there are any of those old ovens still in use in 

Scotland, but in Holland ovens 
of similar type in which the 
fuel is peat are in use for bak- 
ing rye bread. 

The oven types were ulti- 
mately changed, but strangely 
enough tlie method of change 
was different in the three coun- 
tries named. Thus in some 
parts of England, notably in 
Lancashire, the older pot type 
was altered into the The Wagon 
form still much in Oven, 
use in the county, which is 
designated " the wagon oven ". 
To convert a pot oven as de- 
scribed into a wagon oven it 
was only necessary to enclose 
the chimney with an iron box, 
around the bottom of which 
another movable iron box called a blower, with handles, could be fitted, 
with an opening through it for a large pipe. Fig. 191 shows such a box. 
The small hole in the upper part is intended as a peephole to ascertain the 

condition of the fire. This 
box and the other fittings 
are from photographs taken 
quite recently, all the ap- 
pliances shown being still in 
actual use. The wagon or 
movable chaffer consists of 
an ashbox and a firebox (fig. 
192). The ashbox has two 
flanges at one end into which 
a long iron pipe is fitted, 
this pipe passing through 
the opening already alluded 
to in the box forming the 
oven door. The firebox fits 
on top of the ashbox, and as 
its name indicates contains the fire (fig. 193). The long pipe passing 
through the hole in the door conveys the air for the combustion of the 
coal through the ashbox, and up through the fire the products of combus 
tion pass along the roof back to the box at the door and up the chimney 

VOL. IL 96 






Ash Box 



Hopper or Fire Box 
Fig. 192 



274 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

The strength of the draught can be regulated by a damper fixed at the 
bottom of the chimney. As the tire burns, the position of the wagon in the 
oven is altered, one of the lengths of pipe being removed as the wagon is 
pulled down nearer the front of the oven; or if the firing is started near 
the front, the second length of pipe can be added as the wagon is pushed 
towards the back of the oven. This type of oven is a great improvement 
on the original pot oven. The crown can be burned clear and free from 
soot owing to the strong draught produced through the pipe. Then the 
intensity of the heat of the crown is greater than in the old form, and a 
flash heat can be produced readily, time being allowed by burning another 
fire. The persistency of this type of oven in some parts of Lancashire, 
where it has been common for about ninety years, is testimony to its 




Fig. 193.— Wagon ready for Lighting, showing Draught Pipe 

possession of many good points, although it is undoubtedly both trouble- 
some and dirty. 

The change from the old pot oven to a variety of the blast type was 
of much more recent date in Scotland, and the change took a different 
Modern form. The first alterations required no great structural 

Scotch Oven, changes in the oven itself, except that the chaffer and fender 
were discarded, and in their place a cast-iron set of furnace bars, all in one 
piece, were fixed, generally in a large block of firebrick, in one corner of 
the oven. The set of firebars are about 16 in. long by 10 or 12 in. wide. 
Fig. 194 shows their position in the oven bottom. An ashpit with door 
was cut through the wall under the furnace bars. The fuel was changed 
from soft coal to gas coke or anthracite coal. To keep the fuel on the 
bars a broad piece of iron bent at right angles formed a fender. The old 
chimney was, in the first instance, continued in use, but, as in the case of 
the wagon oven, it was reduced in size by boxing in with sheet iron; then 
a box exactly like that shown in fig. 192, but without the large pipe-hole, 
was placed over the oven mouth, and really formed the opening to the flue 
or chimney. The air to supply the fire entered by the ashpit door. The 
products of combustion pass across the roof to the back wall, are then 
forced to descend there, and they return across the oven at the level of 
the top of the oven door, and pass through the box up the chimney. This 
arrangement ensured a very considerable draught, and as sufficient air 
could be admitted to burn the fuel properly, the crown of the oven would 



BAKERY OVENS 



275 



be quite clean and bright, and more intensely heated than was possible 
with the older type, the absence of smoke from the fuel also contributing 
to the same end. But the iron box or " blower " was merely a temporary 
expedient, and was soon superseded by an arrangement exactly similar to 



"rT" 



T^ 



III 



I II 



1 — r 



I I I I 1 



I I I I 



55 



I I I 1^ 



III 



eS 



"rrr 



i^ 



i^W^ 



K 



CHAMBE 



R ^ 



i 



LJ 



t 

FURNACE 



'^oveh'^'=^ 



I I I I I I 1 / MOUTH \ I I I 



Fiif. 194.— Plan of Modern Scotch Oven 



|--T' i"^ 1 


SANO 


-^1 1 










' 1 ' 1 ' 1 


1 1 










1 1 1 


i 1 






1 I 






^Cu\3i-^ ^^^u.U^>^ 


^^ 




1 1 A 


V^>^^- ^ ^ ^C^^ 


^> , i^j 




1 ' 1 ' 1 \\ 


./, L>^ 




1 1 |v 


"^ OVEN CHAMBER ^ -4^ 




V -> -> -»■ — ^ — > OF OVEN 


' 1 ' 1 ' 1 




' 1 ' 1 ' 1 


1 1 


1 1 


1 1 1 


^:-9-:^^>^}-}!^;-00^i^^^^ 


-^-Lp- 




1 1 1 








1 1 




' 1 ' 1 ' 1 


^M:m 








1 1 




' 1 ' 1 ' 1 








1 i 




' 1 ' 1 ' 1 








i 1 




J-jJ->J_L- 


==^iJu-^^-^-JO^ZJ!wi3-Aj^ 







Fij;. 195. — Section of Modern Scotch Oven 

that still in use in the modern Scotch oven. A proper flue is built in the 
front wall of the oven in a position opposite to the side in which the fur- 
nace is placed (fig. 194), and this is controlled by a damper exactly in the 
same way as a side-flue oven. When the oven door, which is now usually 
swung on hinges in the orthodox way, is shut, and the ashpit door is open, 
the coke fire soon burns to a white heat, and the crown and walls can be 



276 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

heated to high intensity when necessary for "flash" purposes. But the 
Scotch oven is still essentially a solid structure, and on account of the 
close-packed bread baked in it its heat must also be solid; that is, it must 
not be so much a surface heat as a sort of heat reservoir in which a great 
quantity of heat is stored. To ensure this the heating process has to be 
done slowly. The usual practice is to pile on a considerable quantity of 
coke on the top of a small, bright fire after the usual work of the day is 
done, and by leaving the ashpit door a very little open, and the damper 
also open about an inch, to keep this fire burning very slowly all night or 

Manaeement ^^^ ^^^' ^^ *^® ^*^® ^^^ ^^- ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^.t generated in 
of the producing the first bright fire by blowing, this slow com- 

Scotc ven. i^yg^^QQ Qf t,he coke has been sufficient to saturate — if the 
word may be used in this sense — the crown, walls, and sole with a large 
quantity of heat. At the beginning of the day's work the fire will be still 
alight, but the greater part of the fuel burned away; a clinker consisting 
of the incombustible mineral matter of the fuel congealed together will be 
formed on the bars. This clinker is first removed, the live part of the fire 
raked together and freed from dust through the ashpit, then a few shovel- 
fuls of coke are thrown on, and the fire allowed to blow for about twenty 
minutes for the purpose of giving the intense surface heat needed; then the 
oven is ready for the day's work. If a batch of bread is the first thing 
to be baked in the oven, it may be necessary to allow it to " lie down " 
a little before setting of bread commences, so that the intense surface heat 
may penetrate into the solid material of the oven. 

The modern Scotch oven is still a very high-roofed structure, about 
2 ft. 10 in. in the centre of the crown being the usual height. Amongst 
H t C > its virtues may be mentioned the capacity it has for absorb- 
of the ing and retaining heat. The heat-retaining properties of 

Scotch Oven, ^j^^ oven crown are much assisted by its formation. Refer- 
ence to fig. 195 will show that the spring of the arch is some distance 
above the top of the oven door, so that even if the oven door is open, the 
highest heated air in contact with the oven crown will not descend to 
the height of the top of the door to fly out The part of the oven above 
the level of the door, therefore, forms a kind of closed box of more or less 
stagnant but extremely hot air, which protects the crown from access of 
cold air without hindering radiation. Some oven -builders intensify this 
effect by keeping the top of the oven flue, through which the products of 
combustion emerge when the fire is burning, about the same height as the 
top of the oven door, so that these products have to descend a little before 
they reach the level of the exit. This arrangement, while it slightly reduces 
the draught, is one making for economy. The hot products, on which the 
heat of the oven partly depends, have more time to be absorbed, and the 
level of the crown being above the level of the exit, these products are 
likely to pass up the chimney at a lower temperature than in the case 
where the opening to the flue is nearly continuous with the crown. The 
Blight reduction in draught is due to the partial obstruction which the part 



BAKERY OVENS 277 

of the wall above the flue presents to the liighly heated currents from the 
lire as they rush along the roof of the oven to the flue, but partly also 
to the reduced temperature of these currents when they do pass up the 
chimney. Figs. 194 and 195 show the direction of the products of com- 
bustion in an oven of this class. On account of the height of the crown 
it is possible to keep a small coke fire burning very gently even while the 
bread is baking. Active combustion is not allowed during that time, but 
the fire is kept alight, and as a rule some damp coke is thrown on it before 
setting commences, and the ashpit door kept closed, so that not more air 
is allowed than enters, virtually, above the fire, by the oven door. This 
arrangement keeps the fire burning without producing any appreciable 
quantity of fumes. The purpose is to allow a flash heat to be given the 
oven between batches if necessary; or it is not uncommon to allow the oven 
to " blow " for some time, that is, to allow the fire to brighten up while, 
say, the last batch is in the oven, if it is desired to secure a better colour 
and bloom on the top crust than the oven in its comparatively cold 
state would give. This plan is quite safe in an oven with such a high 
crown, and in w^hich the opening to the flue is considerably above the top 
of the baking bread, for the products of combustion with such an arrange- 
ment need not reach the top of the loaves, the bloom and colour on the 
latter being really obtained by radiant heat from the newly and intensely 
heated crown. Those who fear to lose the steam in an oven while bread 
is baking will regard the method of obtaining bloom just described as 
very strange, but if it is considered that the expedient is only adopted 
in a case when the oven is very cold, and therefore in circumstances under 
which the bread has probably not lost the normal quantity of moisture, 
and when it is remembered also that the reduction of moisture in a loaf 
to a definite extent is an essential condition of its being properly baked, 
the strangeness of the method disappears. The conditions under which 
Scotch loaves are baked also prevent undue drying, as the top crusts 
of the loaves are nearly continuous, and the crumb is but little exposed 
to excessive evaporation, even under the conditions mentioned. It is 
not possible to actually heat the crown of an internally heated oven 
while the bread is baking if the crown is low, as in the side-flue oven, 
yet, other things being equal, it is not a bad plan to complete the baking 
of a batch of bread in a perfectly dry heat — that is, in an atmosphere 
quite free from steam. Leaks in the oven structure or in the door fittings 
may prevent the atmosphere within the oven being quite steam-saturated, 
but when it is even nearly so the eflfect is to toughen the crust of the 
bread after it has cooled, whereas, if the last four or five minutes' baking 
takes place in a steam-free atmosphere, the crust is rendered crisp and 
retains this property. 

The greater part of the heat in the sole of a Scotch oven is obtained 
by conduction directly from the fire, the heat passing through the stones 
from one particle to another outward from the furnace. On this account 
the stones around the furnace are much hotter than those away from it. 



278 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



and the differences in this respect are so pronounced that more care is 
s ce of needed in baking small goods in this type of oven than in 

Heat in the any other, to ensure anything like regularity; the systematic 
Scotch Oven, ^.^j-jji^g Qf baking sheets while the goods are baking is a 
necessity. The crown of the Oven, like that of other types of internally 
heated ovens, secures its heat by convection currents of heated products or 
by flame from the fii'e, while the surface heat of the sole is in part obtained 
by radiation from the crown after that is heated. This latter source of 
heat to the sole is, however, much less effective in the case of a Scotch 
oven than in a low-crowned side-flue oven, because of the much greater 
height of the crown of the former. It may be interesting to note here the 
effect that distance has on the value of radiant heat from any source. 
Stated in a scientific manner, it has been proved that radiant heat — or, as 

it is called, radiant energy — 
is modified in its effects in- 
versely as the square of the 
distance from the source of 
the heat. The meaning of 
this in common language, as 
applied to the heating effects 
of the oven crown at the oven 
bottom, is that if two crowns 
were heated to exactly the 
same intensity, but one was 
twice as far from the oven 
bottom as the other, the value 
of the radiant heat from the 
higher crown in a given time would not, as one might ordinarily expect 
be half that of the low-crown one, but would be only one-quarter. Simi- 
larly, if one crown were three times the height of another, and both were 
heated to the same intensity, the radiant heat from the higher one in a 
given time would only be one-ninth that of the lower. It will thus be 
seen that to get the same baking capacity from a high-crown oven as 
from a low one, the former needs to be heated to a much greater degree. 
Yet, as already indicated, the high roof and other peculiarities of struc- 
ture in the Scotch oven are conducive to heat-retention, which is one of 
the properties specially desirable in an oven used for closely packed bread 
that requires long baking. 

It is a curious fact that the very high-crowned Scotch oven is not well 
suited for baking the English type of loaf called a cottage; it makes them 
p , high, and in the case of many of the loaves nearly separates 

in a the tops from the bottoms. The baker generally gets over 

Scotch Oven. ^j^^ difficulty of explaining this by saying that the high 
crown " draws " or pulls the tops off, but there is no reasonable explana- 
tion ever offered as to why this should happen, or by what means the 
"drawing" is effected. The probability is that the cause of the trouble 




Fig. 196.— Scotch Oven Front 



BAKERY OVENS 279 

is the extreme dryness of the atmosphere of the high-crown oven for a 
very considerable time after the loaves are set in it, owing to its large 
cubic capacity, Tlie dry heat radiated from the crown causes a hard 
and inflexible crust to form very quickly after the loaves are set, much 
more quickly than would happen in an oven with the same heat in a 
moist atmosphere. The hard crust is formed before the interior crumb 
stops growing, and as the crust will not yield, the top is lifted from its 
position all in one piece. In an oven with a low crown, and therefore of 
much less cubic capacity, the steam from the baking bread very quickly, 
after the door is shut, fills the oven atmosphere with moisture to a degree 
at least to prevent the crust from becoming too rigid before the interior 
has stopped growing. 

The general excellences of the Scotch type of oven consist in its great 
work capacity, small fuel requirements, and its longevity and low cost for 
repairs. Some of its defects, from a modern and universal 
point of view, have been pointed out, but its worst fault Disadvantages 
is the dust and dirt inseparable from its use. When the °^ ^^^ 
fuel has to be thrown on the fire through the same aper- 
ture as that through which the bread is set, and when ashes and fire have 
to be withdrawn through the same door, a great deal of dust is necessarily 
raised. To get over one difficulty, a firm of oven-builders have patented 
a set of firebars that can be tilted, so that when necessary the fire or ashes 
can be withdrawn through the ashpit door instead of in the usual way 
through the oven door. The writer has had some personal experience of 
this arrangement, and can vouch for its efficiency as an improvement. 
There have been ovens of the Scotch type erected with furnaces like 
those of the side-flue oven, situated in the oven front wall, but the diffi- 
culty attending the use of such furnaces is that the thick oven sole does 
not get heated to anything like the intensity required, because the wall 
furnace does not heat the sole in the same way, by conduction, as a fur- 
nace continuous with the sole, and in close contact with it on two sides; 
then the wall furnaces, as constructed, were not suitable for burning coke, 
and with that fuel the back of the oven could hardly be heated. There 
is no reason, however, why the furnace of a Scotch oven should not be 
readily fed with fuel through the front wall, by a special passage which 
could be properly closed, while the fire is burning, by a hinged fire block 
swung behind and above the fire. One peculiarity of the method of coke 
combustion in a Scotch oven will be referred to in the chapter on fuel. 

In the south and midlands of England, and in Ireland and some parts 
of Scotland, the old pot ovens were succeeded by the type we now know 
as the "side-flue". The position of the furnace and flue and side-flue 
direction of the currents in this oven are shown in the plan, Ovens, 
fig. 197, while the direction of the products of combustion when the fire is 
burning is shown in the section, fig, 198. The furnace is comparatively 
long and narrow, and is built in a slanting direction in the front wall. In 
some cases the roof of the furnace is sloped very slightly upwards so as to 



280 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



run continuous with the crown of the oven. Sometimes the furnace bars 
are quite level, but in other cases they are made to dip a little towards 
the interior of the oven. The top of the flue is usually continuous with 
the oven crown, and the flue opening is nearly as deep as the interior wall 



-" !'■' 1 1 1 1 


1 1 i 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 


1 1 1 1 1 


1 1 1 1 1 1 , 1 1 1 ( 1 ' (■ ' 


' 1 1 1 1 1 


1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' 1 


1 1 1 1 1 


1 I.I 1 1 1 I.I 1 f 1 1 " 


1 1 1 1 1 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 r ' 1 ' 1 


1 1 1 1 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' 1 1 ' 


II 1 1 1 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 


III II 


1 1(11 


1 1 1 1 1 






1 1 1 1 1 II 












t— 














T 






r r 1 




T 














<« 


— 




•r 








j 




; 1 1 1 1 f ; 










i/ 










^r 




1 




























\ 


















> 


if' 




"^ 




X 












/ 


/ 
















_jt 












* 




/ 














\ 4 


>, 




1 ' 1 ' 1 ' 1 










o\ 


'E 


N 


C 


H/ 


KN 


B 


"P 


1 


















A, 












— ''■ 




















1 




































t 


\ 










1 












i 


















I 


























































i 




































r 1 1 1 






> 


















-U 


RN 


ACE 


' 1 ' 1 ' ' 1 ' 


1 1 1 1 r- 


__J-H 


J 


*—^ \ 1 \\\\\^ 


n-i 1 1 i 


L 


7 °v^^ ^^^^ 


Villi 


' 1 ' 1 ' 1 ' 1 "T 1 


V 


1 1 1 1 


1 1 1 1 1 1 i 


' MOUTH VL-AWW^ 


,111 


/ 




S-. 


_\ 


W! 


A. 


^111 



rig. 197.— Plan of Side-flue Otcu 




mssmMimmmi^ 




Fig. 198.— Section of Side-flue Oven 

of the oven. The bottom of the flue opening is on occasions raised the 
thickness of a tile above the level of the oven bottom. The fuel almost 
universally used is coal, as a long flame is necessary to the effective heating 
of the oven. When the fire is burning, the oven door is shut and the flue, 
damper, and ashpit doors open. As the coal is freshly burning a long 
flame stretches from the furnace diagonally across the oven and spreads 



BAKERY OVENS 281 

itself out in fan-like form. As this flame is in closest contact with the 
roof the latter becomes intensely hot, and gradually becomes almost white, 
through all adhering matter being burned off, and on account of the intense 
heat of the brickwork. When the oven is all clean and white the firing 
is considered sufficient, and no more fuel is used. The whole process of 
heating an oven of this type for the day's work may not occupy more than 
from two to three hours, according to the kind and quantity of baking to 
be done. Economy of fuel depends very much on the ovensman. A care- 
less or uninformed man may readily use a large amount of fuel without 
obtaining anything like the equivalent heat from it. The most wasteful 
custom is that of allowing the fire to burn into holes, or to burn very low 
before adding fresh fuel. When holes are allowed in the fire the inrush of 
cold air through these is greater than is needed by the burning fuel, or at 
least it does not combine with the fuel, but serves to reduce materially the 
temperature of the actual products of combustion; in some cases when the 
fire is " green " the heat may be actually below the ignition point of the 
gases produced, the result being that there is much smoke and little heat, 
the combustible gases passing up the chimney unconsumed. When the fire 
is allowed to burn too low before fresh fuel is added the cold air entering 
under the grate is likely to be greater than the fuel can combine with; 
the products of combustion are therefore seriously reduced in temperature, 
and may even be at a lower temperature than the hot brick surface of the 
oven on which they impinge; that surface is therefore cooled instead of 
being heated. Most bakers are familiar with this sort of thing, and speak 
of the oven "blowing cold". Alternate heating and cooling of the oven 
due to such causes as just described are extremely wasteful. There is 
another trouble that sometimes arises through inexperience or carelessness. 
The experienced ovensman when about to add a fresh charge of fuel is 
careful to first push part of the white-hot coke left from a former charge 
of coal, after all the gas has been driven out of it, well towards the head 
of the furnace, and to place the fresh charge behind it and nearer the door, 
taking care, however, to leave enough bright fire underneath to light the 
new fuel. As the gas is driven out of the new fuel it is ignited as it passes 
over the white-hot coke at the head of the furnace, and none of the gases 
are allowed to pass away unconsumed, while the longest and hottest flame 
possible is produced by this means. The inexperienced man may throw his 
fresh fuel to the back of the furnace, and in consequence much of its pro- 
ducts may pass up the chimney wastefully as smoke. In a side-flue oven 
when the gases are burned out of the coal, and the fuel is in the condition 
of coke, the oven cannot be readily heated by radiation from the white- 
hot coke owing to the comparatively small aperture of the furnace, but 
by convection the products of the burning of this coke convey the heat 
to the surface of the oven. 

Reference has already been made to the heating effects on the oven sole 
of the radiant heat from the highly heated crown. This is probably one of 
the most effective sources of heat in the case of the side-flue oven. The 

Vol. II. 96 



282 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

crown is very near the sole, and it is heated up by the contact of flame 
Heating in Side- to almost a white heat, in which condition it radiates a 
flue Oven. great quantity of its heat to the sole. The heat in a side- 

flue oven is intense but essentially superficial. It is produced in a very 
strong draught in a short time, and from the burning of as much fuel as, 
or more fuel than, would be required to heat more "solidly" an oven of 
equal size of the Scotch type. After the oven is " clear ", which is the sign 
that it is sufiiciently heated, it is much too hot on the crown for baking 
bread, or indeed for goods of any kind, and in consequence a stated time, 
say half an hour, is allowed for the oven to " lie down ", so that the exces- 
sive heat may be absorbed further into the interior of the oven material, 
from which again it may be paid out in a steady stream during the course 
of the day's work. But as this type of oven is easily and quickly heated 
so it is also easily cooled. The cooling is accelerated by the manner in 
which the crown is usually built. There is no ledge between the top of 
the door in most cases and the spring of the arch, but the open door almost 
exposes the oven for its full height except the very small curve of the 
arch. In consequence of this every time the door is open the hot air, right 
up to the crown, rushes out, and cold air from outside rushes along the oven 
bottom to take its place. Some builders arch the crown very little and 
keep it low, and this has no doubt the effect of making the oven easily 
heated with the minimum quantity of fuel and of obtaining the maximum 
value of the heat in the baking chamber, but, as just indicated, it also 
Flat-crowned facilitates loss of heat every time the door is open. There 
O^^"^- is a limit to the flatness of an oven crown, and in any case 

the less arched it is the greater is the strain on the oven walls. The 
writer is familiar with a case in which a number of ovens were built with 
perfectly flat crowns. Steel X girders were placed transversely across the 
oven, and between these beams stones similar to those forming the sole 
were fixed. The oven was then simply a flat stone box with iron plates 
running across the top. The experiment was a total failure. The fuel 
used was coke, but no appreciable draught could be obtained, partly because 
of the flat roof and partly because the draught was intercepted about every 
foot by the thickness of the projecting iron plates. The hot gases from 
the coke fire necessarily tended to make their way along the crown, but 
the series of projecting plates, although not more than f in. deep, were 
sufficient to direct the currents momentarily downwards, and their progress 
was therefore arrested by the eddies thus produced. 

Side-flue ovens, to those familiar with them, are economical and 
efficient, and they are particularly suitable for baking crusty bread and 

for small goods after the bread is baked. When an oven of 
and'^Disfdvan- t^is type is in use for a mixed trade the usual practice is to 
tages of Side- give the oven a second fire after the bread is baked, but only 

a small one is needed. The greatest defect in this type of 
oven is that it is in no sense continuous. Between every two batches it 
requires more firing, thus breaking the continuity of the work. A Scotch 



BAKERY OVENS 



283 



oven, on the other hand, is capable of baking at least three or at a pinch 
four batches of close-packed bread without any stoppage for firing between ; 
and as these batches require from 1^ to 2 hours each to bake, the same 
quantity of heat would be capable of baking five or six batches of crusty 
bread which take from 40 to 45 minutes each. 

Many attempts have been made to adapt side-flue ovens for burning 
coke. This has been successfully accomplished, but only by adopting 
measures suitable for coke-burning. It may be regarded as ^se of Coke 
impossible without a forced draught to heat a side-flue or any in Side- 
sort of oven with coke from start to finish, in the short time 
required to heat a side-flu© with flaming coal. When it is considered expe- 



Flue Ovens. 




Iblocki 



1 FURNACE 



.1.-:.....,....' .......... '."^... ■:... ' ' ' ^ . \l..:.Jl:..J.........J. 



SAN D. 



RUBBISH 



Fig. 199.— Section of Oven tlirough Furnace 




dient to use coke as the fuel in a side-flue oven the furnace needs to be 
enlarged, not because coke requires more space in which to burn, but because 
it is necessary to burn a comparatively large fire very slowly in the same 
way as in a Scotch oven, and the ordinary side-flue furnace is not large 
enough to contain a fire that will keep alight for the length of time. The 
most efiicient way of altering the furnace is to lower the bars about 
3 inches, and allow them to dip slightly towards the interior of the 
oven. This makes the furnace a little larger at the bridge than at the 
door. In addition the top of the furnace should be sloped upwards so that 
it forms a continuous line with the oven crown. Double doors on the 
furnace in the usual way, and a fire block cased in iron, and hinged so as 



284 BAKEEY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

to cover the mouth of the furnace in the oven, complete the necessary- 
alterations. This fire block in the iron frame may be hung either from the 
top or the side, but in either case it must be fully open when the fire 
is burning, and a recess must be made into which it fits when open. The 
purpose of this fire block is to shut off" the furnace completely from the 
oven chamber when the bread or other goods are being baked. In an oven 
with a furnace so constructed the mode of firing may then be exactly 
similar to that described for a Scotch oven. After the day's work is 
done a good bright coke fire is produced by blowing the oven for about 
fifteen minutes in the usual way; then the furnace is heaped up with fresh 
coke and the oven shut up, except that the ashpit door is left open about 
half an inch to admit enough air to keep the fire alight, and the damper 
kept open very slightly to carry ofi' the fumes generated by the slow com- 
bustion. In the morning or at the beginning of the day's work the clinker 
is removed from the furnace after the fire has been blown till it is bright; 
then about five shovelfuls of coke are thrown on, and the fire blown for 
about half an hour or less according to the kind of work to be done. The 
large all-night fire gradually compensates for the heat that was used in the 
previous day's baking, and raises the whole of the materials of the oven to 
a sound baking temperature. The shorter sharp fire in the morning gives 
the necessary surface intensity to supply the bloom on bread or small goods 
baked. It is then that the use of the fire-block stop comes in. It is turned 
down and the furnace efiectively shut off" from the baking chamber, but 
the fire in the furnace is still alight and must be kept so, as this type of 
oven cannot be heated to the same " solidity " as one of the Scotch type, and 
it is necessary to supply a flash heat between the batches. It would be 
quite inefiective to relight a coke fire on each such occasion; hence the need 
for keeping a bright fire ready for use immediately it is required. To this 
end the furnace is provided with another damper not connected with the 
oven chamber, and while the furnace block is down during baking this 
damper is open slightly to take away the fumes if the fire is intended 
only to burn very slowly, or it may be opened full while a batch is drawing 
to get the fire up to a high degree of brightness, so that it may be turned 
into the oven at once by raising the block as soon as the oven is empty. 
Worked in this way, and with furnace fittings of this description, there is 
no difficulty in using coke or anthracite coal in a furnace or side-flue oven, 
and the arrangement effects a considerable saving in fuel. 

The description of internally heated ovens already given nearly ex- 
hausts the types of this sort with which we are familiar iin Britain. 
Austrian In Austria there is an internally heated type used both for plain 
Oven. bread and fancy rolls in which the furnace bars are placed directly 
in front of the oven door. The bars are sunk about an inch under the 
surface of the oven bottom. The fuel used may be either coke or wood 
faggots. There are one or more flues fixed at the head of the oven, so 
that the heat may be directed to one side or the other as desired by open- 
ing either damper. The fuel is heaped up as in an ordinary fire on this 



BAKEEY OVENS 285 

flat grid and allowed to burn, the draught being supplied in the usual way 
through the ashpit. When the oven is sufficiently heated the bars can be 
tilted and the ashes tipped into the ashpit, all the ashes scattered in the 
oven being drawn into the same receptacle. The sunk grid is then covered 
with a thick iron plate, which, when in position, is flush with the oven 
bottom. The peel, in setting the bread, slides back and forward over this 
plate, which is really indistinguishable from the oven bottom. This seems 
a rather ingenious way of heating an oven, and for the low calorific value of 
the fuel used it seems efficient and economical. Some of the ovens of this 
type are round internally while some are of the usual oblong shape. The 
ovens, except for the ashpit, are built quite solid with thick tile bottoms. 
A point of some interest in their construction is that the part under the 
tile sole is filled wholly with loose dry gravel, the purpose being to con- 
serve the heat of the bottom as much as possible, and to this end gravel is 
really more effective than solid material, the air spaces between the small 
stones acting as better non-conductors than even the solid material of the 
gravel. Loose filling of this kind is cheaper, and does not expand with 
heat as may solidly built material when that is used for filling. 

The ovens hitherto noticed have all been of a perfectly simple kind, 
internally heated, and with only one damper to regulate the fire, although 
a small steam damper is a common fitting, even in such ovens, to let oflf the 
steam before starting to draw the bread. There is nothing complicated 
about the building of such ovens and little difficulty in their working, 
and there are no patents involved in their construction. They can readily 
be built by an ordinary bricklayer under the direction of the baker. 
Externally heated ovens are for the most part proprietary Externally 
structures involving special features patented by their respective Heated 
builders. The simplest of such ovens consists essentially of a 
brick or tile chamber, under the bottom and over the top of which a series 
of flues communicating with the fire at the back of the oven are conducted. 
The top of the bottom set of flues is usually built of fire blocks to with- 
stand the great heat of the combustion products as they first leave the 
furnace. These flues can all be regulated together by a single damper fixed 
in the chimney, or each flue can be regulated by a separate damper so placed 
in its passage as to increase the top or the bottom heat at will or to direct 
the heat to particular parts of the oven. The fuel used in ovens of this 
type may be either coal or coke, although the latter is in more general use. 
This type of oven is another example of a case in which it is advantageous 
to burn the coke at two stages — that is, first to produce carbonic oxide 
in the furnace, and then to burn that in a long blue flame in the first 
section of the flues into carbon dioxide (COo). The total heat is the same 
as if the coke were properly burned at once in the furnace to CO,, but the 
flame of CO in the flues carries forward the point of maximum heat a good 
distance from the furnace, and therefore provides a better opportunity for 
the top flues to get their full quota of heat than if the heat maximum were 
in the furnace itself. 



286 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

There is very great variation in the eflSeiency of externally heated 
ovens. Unless the flues are carefully built and of first-class material there 
is a constant danger of parts collapsing, as they are burned out, and choking 
up the passage. As the flues need to be periodically cleaned out from 
soot, boxes are conveniently built in for the purpose, and as this may be 
, roughly done by a careless man, another opportunity is 

Disadvantages aflorded of either choking up the flues by pushing the soot 
H ^''^f "^^^^^^ into the bends and corners, or by actually disturbing or 
breaking the brickwork of the oven. Other disadvantages 
attending the use of the ordinary externally heated oven are the difficulty 
of getting up the heat of the oven chamber quickly if it has been allowed 
to cool unduly, and the further difficulty of cooling the interior rapidly 
if it should be overheated, as the heat is necessarily solid. The hollowness 
surrounding the oven chamber increases the liability to the formation of 
cracks in that chamber, with the consequent loss of heat and loss of steam 
while the baking is proceeding. The quantity of fuel needed in an oven of 
this type is greater than in one heated internally. The advantages per- 
taining to these ovens are the comparative cleanness of the oven chamber 
and the absence of ashes, dust, and excessive heat, from the furnace, within 
the bakery. Then the ovens are practically continuous, because the fire 
can be kept going while the bread is baking, and so batch after batch can 
be baked without stopping. This saving of time enormously increases the 
capacity of the oven over the ordinary side-flue type. 

External-flue ovens, generally referred to as hot-air ovens, have been 
largely adopted in the south and west of England and in the Midlands, but 
. have not found great favour in Ireland or Scotland. An 

oven of this type, but modified to get rid of some of the 
disadvantages referred to, was designed and patented a few years ago in 
Scotland, and has met with a fair measure of success. This oven, called 
Scott & Richards' "Peeler" oven, is adapted for either close-packed or 
crusty bread, or for small goods, and may be built for peel use or as a draw- 
plate. By an ingenious arrangement of dampers it is possible to direct 
the heat from the furnace directly into the interior of the oven, and so 
provide an intense "flash" or surface heat at will. When the oven is very 
hot and goods requiring a cold oven are to be baked it can be cooled down 
very rapidly. The writer had an opportunity of working with this oven 
under circumstances disadvantageous to the oven — it had been built less 
than a week — yet it was thoroughly efficient to bake both crumby and 
crusty bread, and by the use of the various dampers already mentioned, 
lighter goods than bread were baked before and after the batches. The 
oven also showed a most favourable record in consumption of fuel. 

Amongst externally heated ovens one of the best known is that called 
the Baker's Patent (fig. 200). In this oven the flues are external to the 
Baker's oven chamber, but to obviate the difficulty of supplying a flash 

Patent Oven. j^gg^^. yp-hen necessary the actual flame from the furnace can 
be directed into the oven chamber. This oven has therefore the advantages 



BAKERY OVENS 



287 



of the cleanness and continuity of the externally heated oven with the 
adaptability of the side-flue oven for getting up an intense surface heat 
when required. To ensure a comparatively moist atmosphere in the oven, 
when desired, iron channels are sometimes built in the side walls in the 










Fig. 200.— Baker's New Patent Hot-air Peel Oven (flred at back) 

oven along which a quantity of water can be directed at will. Those 
familiar with this type of oven speak highly of its continuous baking 
properties, and of the small quantity of coke needed for its heating. But 
it is an oven that needs to be managed with care; otherwise the adapt- 
ability to emergencies which the several dampers make possible may 




Fig. 201.— Typical American Oven of Flue Type 



readily be a disadvantage for the single purpose, say, of breadraaking. 
This oven is now in use so extensively in peel and drawplate forms that 
its reputation is firmly established. 

These externally heated or hot-air ovens belong essentially to the class 
of chamber ovens. These may be defined as those in which the products 



288 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



of combustion do not enter the oven chamber (exceptions have ah-eady 

_ been noted), the oven chamber bein^ really a highly heated 

Chsmbcr Ovens. o »/ o >/ 

brick or iron box. There are, however, two distinctive 




PLAN A. 
Fig. 202.— Cox's Heat Trap Oven : Plan A A (see fig. 204) 



types of ovens in use in this country that better deserve to be called 
chamber ovens, as in both types the baking compartment is within a large 
brick chamber highly 



heated externally. The 
ovens referred to are that 
known as Cox's Heat Trap 
Oven, and the mechanical 
type called the Reel Oven. 
The first mentioned consists 
of a large brick chamber 

Heat Trap (figS. 202-204), 

Oven. underneath one 

side of which there is a 
comparatively small fur- 
nace to burn coke. This 
furnace has communication 
with the chamber already 
referred to by flues run- 
ning under it and upwards 
through flues in its four 
corners. The products of 




SECTION B. 
Fig. 203.— Cox's Heat Trap Oven : Section bb (see fig. 202) 



combustion therefore enter this chamber at the top, but cannot find egress 
to the chimney until they descend to the bottom, for the opening of the flues 



BAKERY OVENS 



289 



to the chimney — or which there are four at the sides — have their open ends 
near the bottom of the large chamber. The effect of this arrangement is to 
make the highly heated products of combustion descend to the bottom, 
parting with their heat gradually on the way. The baking chambers 
consist of iron flat boxes suspended or fixed within the heated chamber 
referred to. The atmosphere of the latter being highly heated, quickly 
by conduction passes this heat through the sheet iron to the interior of the 
baking chambers or boxes. The theory is that the heat in the large 
chamber should be alike throughout, but in practice it does vary slightly, 
and the variation is in the opposite direction to that shown in the ordinary 




Fig. 204.— Cox's Heat Trap Oven : Section CC (see flg. 202) 



type of decker oven; the top oven in this case, if there are two or three, 
one above the other, is hotter than the bottom one. The baking chamber 
is quite flat in each case, and has no direct opening into the hot chamber 
in which it is fixed. The heat throughout the oven, with the slight 
exception referred to, is therefore alike, and the writer is informed by 
those who are habitually using this type of oven that the loaves or other 
goods are baked with great regularity. The most advantageous point 
about this oven is its economy of fuel. The arrangement of flues is 
conducive to a very slow draught in consequence of the drawing flues 
having their openings at the bottom of the heating 
chamber. The descent of hot air is naturally a slow 
process, so that when it gets to the chimney it is likely to be comparatively 
cool, much cooler at any rate than the hot air in the chimney of a side-flue 
oven. This reduces the speed of the draught in the former. But it is 



Economy of Fuel. 



Vol. n. 



97 



290 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



quite evident that if a slow-burning coke fire can be made to supply all 

the heat necessary to bake batch after batch of bread or other goods, then 

a given weight of coke in such a furnace is likely to last longer than one 

in which the draught is quick, because the air in the chimney, after it has 

passed its work, is very hot. The products of combustion in this heat trap 

oven should part with the greater part of their heat in actually heating 

the baking chambers. The ovens are continuous. They can be built in 

tiers of two, three, or more, and for use with the peel or as drawplates. 

The writer has not personally used these ovens, but from trade friends 

he has received the assurance that the ovens are very eflBcient, and 

that in practice they faithfully bear out the claims made for them in 

the matter of low consumpt of fuel and fitness for steady work. 

The other type of chamber 

oven alluded to is the reel oven 

„ , ^ (fig. 205). This oven 

Reel Oven. .*'.,■; , , 

18 said to have been 

patented in America by a grocer 
named Adams who took up baking 
early in the last century. It is 
not subject now in Britain to any 
patent rights, and as a bread oven 
is much less used than it was some 
twenty to twenty-five years ago, 
but is still extensively used in 
American and Canadian bakeries, 
and has there been very much 
altered from the original form and 
brought quite up to date both in 

the matter of fuel and in the automatic attachments with which it is fitted. 
The essential points about a reel oven are: that it is a large brick or in- 
sulated iron chamber nearly square internally, with one or two furnaces 
underneath that have flues outside the back of the chamber. The products 
of combustion do not enter the baking chamber but are confined to the 
flues. In the baking chamber is an iron frame, between the sides of which 
iron shelves, about 2^ ft. deep, and with backs, are suspended. These 
shelves extend the full width of the oven. The oven door also extends the 
full width of the oven, like the door of the modern drawplate. The internal 
frame revolves, either by mechanical or hand power, while the bread is 
baking. It is only suitable for baking tin bread, although it has been 
largely used for biscuits. The shelves can be stopped exactly in front of 
the door to be filled or emptied. When all the shelves are full the 
frame is kept turning slowly but steadily for the full time the batch is 
baking, the purpose being, of course, to bake the bread on all the shelves 
alike, for otherwise those at the bottom of the oven and those near the 
flues would be much overbaked, and those near the front of the chamber 
would not be sufficiently baked. The revolving arrangement gets over 




Fig. 205.— A Eeel Oven 



BAKERY OVENS 



291 



this difficulty in two ways: by assisting mechanically to equalize the 
temperature of the oven atmosphere, and by moving the loaves slowly 
through and out of the hottest parts just above the furnaces. This sort 
of oven is not economical for a small trade, but is an efficient and quick 
baker where there is a very large tin-bread trade done. The oven, how- 
ever, was never in common use here, except in the large Glasgow factories, 
in one or two in London, and in two in Ireland. It has now been almost 




Fig. 206.— American Reel Oven 



if not quite discarded. Its good points are its large capacity and economical 
working in factories where the machinery is always Merits and Defects 
running. The faults that have caused its displacement of Reel Oven, 
are the great labour and excessive strain it imposed on the men in charge 
of it; the tendency to break down of some of the moving parts; or the 
accidental tipping of a shelf or of one or two tins, which would cause the 
stoppage of the whole machine and spoil a whole batch, as there was no 
means of getting out the loaves except by the door, and they had to remain 
till the oven had cooled. 

This type of oven was introduced here directly from America, and 
in those bakeries where it was in use was generally referred .. Yankee " 
to as the Yankee oven, but the originals were known in "Boomerang" 
America as the "Boomerang" ovens. As noticed above, o^^"^- 
they are still extensively used there, and the latest development is to 



292 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

have the oven built on an iron frame, the two ends of which are A-shaped. 
The spindle of the movable frame has its ends in bosses at the apex of each 
A-shaped standard. The shelves are arranged in the same way as in the 
older type, but the door for filling is situated down near the bottom of 
the chamber; and in one patent oven there is a mechanical tipping arrange- 
ment with an opening in the bottom of the oven opposite to the filling 
door, by which the shelves, as they reach that arrangement after the bread 
is sufficiently baked, are tipped up, and the tins slid on to a flat trolley 
that automatically stops in position to receive them. The use of coal or 
coke as the heating agent is being discontinued, and producer gas is being 
adopted. As this can be effectively burned in long series of burners under 
the ovens and cased in, no furnaces are needed, and on this account the 
ovens can be fixed on the logs some distance above the floor to allow the 
trolley already spoken of to run under the oven into position. An oven 
built on this system is in a large Toronto bakery, and is the patent of 
the proprietor. Fig. 206 shows one of the latest type of reel ovens heated 
by gas, as in use in several large bakeries in the United States. 

While on the subject of ovens with mechanical parts, it may be of 
interest to notice the round oven in which the sole is made to revolve 
to facilitate the setting of the bread, and which may also 
be turned from time to time while the bread is baking. This 
type has never, to the writer's knowledge, been in common use in Britain, 
but is still extensively used in Germany and Holland for ordinary bread- 
baking, and finds some favour also in the United States, probably amongst 
the foreign bakers, who almost dominate the baking trade there. Fig. 207 
shows the parts of such an oven. This type is designated the "rotary 
oven ", and also belongs to what has been called the chamber class. 

Travelling ovens, that are now almost universally used in biscuit 
factories for cakes as well as biscuits, have not yet been adopted for 
Travelling bread - baking, but it is probable that something in that way 
Ovens. -vvill be onc of the developments of the very near future. When- 

ever the automatic working of the moulding and proving machinery is 
perfect, the need for a perfectly continuous and automatic oven will be 
one of the necessities of the large bread factories. There is no mechanical 
difficulty about such an oven that could not be easily overcome to fit it 
for baking bread. Tin or crusty loaves can be properly baked in from 
45 to 60 minutes, and there is no reason why the speed of the travelling 
oven could not be timed accordingly. Already in cake and biscuit fac- 
tories small cakes are baked in travelling ovens, and as these might readily 
be spoiled by any jarring or bumping while the cakes are in their soft 
state before setting, it is evident that the movement must be gentle enough 
to prevent any harm coming to bread. With loaves of the crusty sort 
there would not be the least difficulty, but even with crumby, close-packed 
kinds the obstacles to be overcome are by no means insuperable. This 
development seems to be the natural complement to the automatic moulding 
and proving plants which are now being so extensively adopted, and the 



WELL-KNOWN CATERERS 

William Kirkland, a native of Airdrie, in Lanarkshire, 
received a business training in Glasgow and Liverpool, and 
afterwards established a successful catering business in London 
under the name of Kirkland's Cyprus Restaurants. This was 
amalgamated in 1895 with Messrs. Slater's, Ltd., of which 
Mr. Kirkland is joint managing director and general manager 
of the catering department. 

Isidore Salmon, born in 1875, is a director of Salmon and 
Gluckstein, Ltd., and general manager and a director of Messrs. 
Joseph Lyons & Co., Ltd., probably the largest catering firm in 
Britain. He was elected to the L.C.C. in 1907. 

Henry J. R. Matthews, born at Plymouth in 1849, served an 
apprenticeship with his father there, and then sought experience in 
London and Paris. He started the confectionery, preserve, cater- 
ing, and restaurant departments of the firm of Henry Matthews 
& Sons, Ltd., of which he is now managing director. He was for 
three years President of the Plymouth Master Bakers' Association, 
and is a member of the Council and Executive of the National 
Association. 

Thomas Stevens was born at Wrexham, and served an appren- 
ticeship as a confectioner in London. He gained further experi- 
ence in New York, Philadelphia, and Paris, and in 1887 started 
on his own account in Cardiff, where he has now a flourishing 
business as caterer and confectioner. 




H. J. R. MATTHEWS 
(Plymouth) 



THOMAS STEVENS 
(Cardiff) 



WELL-KNOWN CATERERS 



BAKERY OVENS 



293 



firm that will first use ovens of this type for bread will have a considerable 
advantage over others. Economy would, of course, be obtained only in the 
case of a factory with a very large output. 

Returning to methods of oven-heating, a few notes must now be given 
on the system that is really characteristic of our time, viz. heating by steam 
pipes. Even amongst bakers there is still much ignorance as steam-pipe 
to the principles by which steam is applied for this purpose. Ovens. 
There are now many forms of steam-pipe ovens, with variations in the 
method by which the heat is applied, but all the systems agree in this 
particular, that the steam is enclosed in a steel or iron tube sealed at both 




Fig. 207.— American Rotary Oven 

ends, the steam never being allowed to escape unless the pipe or tube 
bursts. The tube, which may be straight or bent according to circum- 
stances, may be about 10 or 12 ft. long, its solid walls about f in. thick, 
and the bore or hole running through it about | in. in diameter. In 
preparing the tube for an oven it is sealed at one end, and a quantity of 
water that has previously been freed from air by boiling is poured into 
it. The tube is filled to a little over one-third its total capacity, or in 
some cases it is filled about half its total length. The quantity of water 
actually in the tube may be from 1| to 2 pt. After filling, the open end 
of the tube is carefully welded. These pipes are built into the ovens so 
that they slope towards the furnace, the object being to ensure that the end 
actually in the furnace, or at least subjected to its intense heat, contains 



294 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

water in the liquid state; otherwise the ends of the tubes would readily 
fuse and burst. The reason that water and steam are the agents or vehicles 
by which the heat is conveyed to the baking chamber is because water 
is the best heat -retaining liquid known. This, of course, also implies 
that it is the most difficult to heat up to any definite intensity; a given 
weight of it requires a greater quantity of heat to raise its temperature 
through a given number of degrees than the same weight of any other 
substance. This property of absorbing heat is called the specific heat of 
High specific ^ substance, and water therefore is said to have a greater 
Heat of Water, specific heat than any other substance. The quantity of 
heat which would raise a pound of water from 0° to 100° C. would be 
sufficient to raise a pound of iron from 0° to about 900° C, that is to a 
dull-red heat. It follows that in cooling down again from 100° to 0° C. 
the pound of water would give out as much heat as the pound of iron 
in cooling from 900° to 0° C. This is the reason that water is so suit- 
able as a means of heating buildings and as a means of heating ovens. 
It explains why steam-pipe ovens have to be heated comparatively slowly. 
The water in the pipes is not wholly converted into steam, but mostly 
continues in the liquid state. As soon as it reaches the boiling condition 
a small portion is converted into steam, and as this cannot escape it pro- 
duces great and increasing pressure on the water still remaining, so that 
the latter is not converted into steam. 

It may be interesting here to state that the originator of the system, 
Mr. Perkins, whose descendants are still actively engaged in oven-building. 
Inventor of ^^^ ^^ eminent engineer, the author of many patent 

Steam-pipe Oven, appliances relating to steam and hot water for heating 
purposes. It is stated that his main purpose in coming to this country 
from America was to put before the British Government an appliance 
called a water gun, which was to eject projectiles by the force of water 
heated to a high degree under great pressure. Amongst the bakers who 
originally assisted the inventor by experimenting with his ovens was 
Mr. Neville, the founder of the large London bakery firm. The steam- 
pipe oven as first arranged did not, as now, consist of rows of single 
pipes each independent of the other, but had series of pipes jointed 
together with screw couplings, so that the whole ovenful was virtually 
one pipe with many bends. As the pressure with highly heated water 
and steam was very great, the utmost trouble was occasioned by the 
joints leaking, and one expedient after another was tried to make the 
joints quite tight under pressure, but without success. Ultimately the 
plan was adopted of making the pipes in straight lengths with both 
ends sealed as at present. 

The original patent for the construction of steam-pipe ovens having 
expired, the principle has been adopted by nearly all oven-builders, some 
Various Forms of following the lines of the original builders, others adopt- 
Steam-pipe Oven, jj^g different methods of applying the same principles to 
the heating of ovens. The firm of Werner, Pfleiderer, & Perkins, with which 



BAKERY OVENS 295 

the original firm of steam-pipe oven-builders is incorporated, has the 
bottom row of tubes as the firebars; then, in the case of a peel oven, 
there is only one other row of pipes which supplies the heat to the top 
of the oven, but if the oven is of the drawplate type, then, besides the 
row under the fire, there is another row which projects a few inches 
into the furnace and above the fire but also under the drawplate. In 
these ovens, therefore, there are two rows of pipes under the plate and 
one to supply top heat. This extra heat under the plate in the case of 
a drawplate is to compensate for the loss of heat occasioned each time 
the plate is pulled out. 

Theoretically it seems strange to make the ends of the bottom row of 
pipes as the furnace bars. Heat ascends, and it might be surmised that 
pipes under the fire would in consequence not become sufiiciently heated, 
but in practice the close contact of the ends of the pipes with the fire 
compensates for the position under the fire and they become sufficiently 
heated. Two conditions determine how much or how little heat the ends 
of the pipes above the fire will obtain — namely, length of exposure and 
distance from the fire. The ends of pipes that project into the furnace 
directly above the fire are not exposed more than 1| to 2 in. The whole 
efficiency of the oven, in fact, depends on whether the length of pipe is 
exposed just enough, or too little, or too much. If too little, the bottom 
heat of the oven may be less than enough; if too much, the bottom may 
have too much heat. A difference of half an inch in length of pipes ex- 
posed may make all the difference between efficiency and constant trouble 
with an oven either too hot or too cold. The row of pipes supplying top 
heat is some distance above the fire, and here again the length of pipe 
exposed determines whether the oven will have enough, too little, or too 
much heat on top. Remembering the principle already referred to, that 
radiant heat is inversely as the square of the distance from the source of 
heat, since these top pipes receive a good deal of heat by radiation, the 
closer they are to the fire the more heat they receive of this kind. In 
the steam-pipe oven under notice the top pipes are heated partly by con- 
vection — that is, by the hot products of combustion passing along and 
over them — and partly by radiation, so that it is the aim of the oven- 
builder to make these hot gases pass as slowly as possible over the pipes 
consistent with securing a sufficient draught to burn the fuel properly, 
and at the same time to adjust nicely the length of pipe exposed and 
the distance from the fire so that the pipes will not receive too much 
radiant heat to make the top of the oven too hot. 

The section of the steam-pipe oven in fig. 208 represents a peel oven, 
and shows the manner in which the pipes are placed. To secure a slow 
draught a deadplate is in some cases fixed under the r w a \ 

main damper, so that a limit is put to the width of the 
aperture through which the products of combustion can pass up the chim- 
ney whether the damper is pulled out to its full extent or not. Thio 
expedient had to be resorted to because of the weakness of ovensmen for 



296 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



pulling out the damper to its fullest extent although it may not be necessary 
for the efficient burning of the fuel. With the fixed plate limiting the width 
of the aperture, the damper can only be used to reduce that width but not 
to increase it. Another expedient, the arrangement for which is also 
shown on the drawing, is to increase the bottom heat of the oven when 
necessary by shutting the damper, which stops the flow of air into the 
ashpit through the fire and up the flue, and directs this flow instead, in 
Increasing through the holes in the furnace doors, down through the 
Bottom Heat, fjj-g^ ^q^j along the ashpit to a flue at the side controlled 
by another damper. When this down draught is in use the ashpit door 
must, of course, be quite shut. Reference has been made to the influ- 
ence of radiant heat in heating this kind of oven. The bottom row of 
tubes on which the fire rests are, of course, heated by conduction; the 



STEAM ESCAPE 
VALVE OPENS 
WITH OVEN 
DOOR 




SOOT DOOR 
MAIN DAMPER 

SOOT DOOR 

SIDE DAMPERS 4 FLUES 
TO INCREASE BOTTOM 
HEAT WHEN DESIRED 



ASHPIT DOORS 



Fig. 208.— Section of Steam-pipe Oven 



second row in a drawplate may be heated partly by conduction, by con- 
vection, and by radiation, according as the fire is large enough to touch 
them or not. The top row is heated, as already noticed, partly by con- 
vection and partly by radiation. The point is mentioned here to explain 
the reason for the instruction given for the heating of the ovens, that 
Radiant Heat ^^® ^^® should be kept comparatively small, or at least 

and the Carbon- small enough to ensure that with the draught possible 
Monoxide Flame. -^ ^^^ ^^ ^.^^-g^^ ^^ ^ ^j^j^^ j^^^^ ^j^^^ ^^^ g^^ -^ ^^^.^ 

large and heaped up it may become a bright-red only, with a flame of 
carbon-monoxide burning on top. The gases from a fire of this sort are 
very hot, and the currents of such gases passing along the top row of 
pipes heat them steadily, but such a fire does not give anything like the 
radiant heat of a much smaller fire in a state of incandescence — at a white 
heat. Yet radiant heat is a more effective and more economical agent 
for heating the pipes at a distance from the fire than convection currents. 
There is hardly any radiant heat obtained from the pale-blue carbon- 
monoxide flame on the top of a large fire. It is not to be understood 
that a very small fire should be maintained, but only that the fire should 
be no larger than the draught allowed will raise to a white heat. 



BAKERY OVENS 297 

In ovens of this type the furnace is very shallow but the full width of 
the oven. This form necessitates that the fire should always be spread very 
evenly; otherwise there is danger of one set of pipes being overheated 
and those in another part of the oven being much colder. In practice 
these variations may not be noticed, yet in the division between the two 
furnaces which constitute the full stretch of the oven some care is needed 
to keep that part of the fire as bright and clear as the The Firing of 
part immediately in front of the furnace door. This is Steam-pipe Ovens, 
one of the very few troubles attending the effective heating of these ovens. 
In any case, however, the combustion is slow, and they cannot easily be 
heated in a hurry; but after heating they can bake steadily and evenly 
one batch after another if a steady fire is kept in the furnace, and about 
this there is no difficulty, since the furnace does not in any way com- 
municate with the baking chamber. If the firing is done with regularity 
and care, this type of oven bakes bread and all sorts of goods with 
economy. It is necessary in this case, as in the majority of others, to 
arrange the order of the work to suit the condition of the oven, since 
the oven once cold cannot be quickly heated, and once hot cannot be 
quickly cooled. 

There are a few peculiar points pertaining to steam -pipe ovens as a 
class that may be as well noticed at this point, although these peculiarities 
are not specially attached to the ovens under observation. Thus it is 
common knowledge amongst bakers using steam -pipe ovens that they do 
not always bake with the same degree of efiiciency, although the tem- 
perature indicated by the thermometer may be alike when the variations 
are noticed. This is explained by the fact that the thermometer can only 
indicate the temperature of one of the agencies which go to produce the 
actual baking heat of the bread. That agency is the oven atmosphere. 
When bread is being baked, the sources from which the heat is derived 
are the oven bottom, the pipes at the oven crown, and the materials of the 
oven. The thermometer by which we register the tempera- Oven Tem- 
ture variations is not in contact with any of these, but is near peratures. 
enough to the top pipes to register the amount, or rather the degree of 
radiant heat they give out, which degree is about the same as that of the 
oven atmosphere near the exposed bulb of the thermometer. The degree 
of heat as registered by the thermometer, therefore, always bears a direct 
relation to the heat of the pipes, but it does not bear the same relation to 
the heat of the material of the oven. At the beginning of the day's baking 
the heat of the oven material above the pipes is about the same as the heat 
of the pipes, and when the latter cool a little on the oven being filled with 
bread, they are likely to receive some heat by radiation from the oven 
materials, which assists in the baking. But as the day's work proceeds 
the oven material, on account of steadily paying back heat to the pipes 
to assist in the baking process, becomes considerably cooler than at the 
beginning of the day's work. In such circumstances, if with a good 

fire the pipes are highly heated, this excess will readily show on the 
Vol. II. 98 



298 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

thermometer, but the baking efficiency may not be quite as great as 
when the thermometer showed the same temperature earlier in the day, 
owing to the absence of augmenting or compensating heat from the oven 
materials. 

Another peculiarity noticeable in thermometric readings of the heat 
of an oven is that while the temperature may appear to decrease very 
suddenly when a batch is newly set, or when the oven atmosphere is filled 
with steam for glazing purposes, yet it appears to increase several degrees 
when the batch is drawn or if the steam is allowed to escape. These 
decreases and increases are rather due to local effects on the thermometer 
bulb than to real variations in the baking temperature of the oven. The 
baking temperature is likely always to be considerably less than the ther- 
mometer indicates when the oven is empty, and more than the thermometer 
indicates when the oven is full. One other point about thermometers in 
ovens may be mentioned here with regard to the great varia- 
tions amongst ovens as to their effective baking heat. Thus, 
the proper heat as indicated by the thermometer for baking a batch of 
bread may be as high as 600° F., while another oven of a different type 
may seem only to need 400° or 420° F. to produce as good a result. 
This difference may be in some part due to difference in the construction 
of the oven — the number of pipes used, their nearness to the goods baking, 
and the nature of the oven materials — but it is frequently also due to the 
position in which the thermometer is fixed with regard to the heating 
tubes. The oven that seems to heat up quickest is not necessarily the 
best baker, indeed is not likely to be the best baker, for the conditions 
that favour very quick heating in this type of oven are also those that 
favour very quick cooling. Thus an oven with say fifty pipes spread over 
the width of the oven would be easier to heat than one containing a hun- 
dred pipes in the same space, but the latter would keep its heat at least 
twice as well, and would therefore be the much more effective baker. 
Again, tubes that contain say one 1 pt. of water can be heated to any 
given degree more quickly than tubes containing 2 pt. of water, although 
the latter should have twice the baking capacity. A little difference in the 
quantity of water in the tubes may not seem of very much importance to 
the baker, yet very little difference in the individual pipes makes a sub- 
stantial difference in the aggregate. An oven with say seventy-two tubes, 
containing 1 pt. of water each, would have 9 gal. of water in which to store 
the heat obtained from the fuel, but if those tubes had each say IJ pt., the 
heat storage would then be the equivalent of 13| gal. of water, and the 
total quantity of heat at any given temperature in this water is half as 
much again as in the smaller quantity. This shows how important to the 
baker is the amount of water in the tubes, and it may be mentioned that 
oven tubes are not all alike in this respect. 

As already explained the method of heating steam -pipe ovens is by 
a coke furnace, in which the ends of the tubes are exposed to a varying 
extent according to their relative position towards the fire. In the Per- 



BAKERY OVENS 



299 



kins oven, which is the original type (fig. 208), the bottom row of pipes 
constitutes the furnace bars, and as these only get that fraction of the 
furnace heat which descends, the extent of pipe exposed is much greater 
than if the pipes were above the fire wholly. The furnace ^gthod of 
in this type extends the full width of the oven. This neces- Heating Steam- 
sitates two or three furnace doors. The pipes are quite ^'^^ ^^"^* 
straight, and the fire and the products of combustion come into direct con- 
tact with them ; these pipes are heated partly by the hot gases, and partly 
and most effectively by radiant heat. To ensure perfectly equal tempera- 
tures in all the pipes, theory requires that the fire ought to be spread quite 
evenly, and theoretical considerations would also seem to indicate that, if 
the fire is not quite even, but larger and hotter in some parts than in 




■ANCRV rtOOR 






Fig 209.— Baker's Patent Steam-pipe Drawplate Oven 



others, the pipes in those localities would get intensely hot and be in danger 
of bursting. In practice there is little or no difficulty experienced in 
this matter. So far as can be indicated in the baking properties of the 
oven, the temperature seems equalized, and although the bursting of a tube 
from overheating is not unknown, yet in this particular oven such a fault is 
very rare, and is now more infrequent than some years ago when the manu- 
facture and sealing of steam pipes were not so well understood. Yet there 
is some difficulty in keeping a long shallow fire of equal brightness for 
its whole width. To meet this trouble, the builders of this oven are now 
building a much smaller furnace with only one door. The fire is on furnace 
bars and the steam tubes are all placed above the fire, so that only a very 
short piece of each tube is exposed to the heat. To get the ends of all the 
tubes into this small space, they are of varying length, to allow them to be 
bent in such a way that they still form straight lines of heat under the 
sole and along the crown of the oven. In the Perkins type of oven, the 
bottom was until quite recently made wholly of iron plates, but a new 
preparation that gives all the effect of tiles without the seams has been in 
use in these ovens, and can be fitted to any ovens of the older type. 



300 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

It is curious that drawplate ovens are now usually associated in the 
baker's mind with steam-pipe ovens, yet the drawplate principle is applied 
Drawplate successfully to ovens of the hot-air type. The original draw- 
Ovens, plate, or at least the one with which the trade first became 
familiar in this country, was called the " Weighorst ", and was not a steam- 
pipe oven. In any case nearly all oven-builders who supply steam-pipe 
ovens are prepared to supply them of either peel or drawplate class, and 
in one or two decks, as required. When this type was first introduced, 
there was considerable trouble with the movable parts, especially in the 
case of imitators of the original builders. Small trolleys and rollers of 
various types were tried to make the plates easy - running, often with 
dire results to the poor baker and his batches. The diflSculties are now 
quite overcome, and one hardly ever hears of any difficulty being ex- 
perienced with the plates. It was for many a day protested that these 
drawplates, while suitable enough for baking the English sort of crusty 
loaves, were quite unsuitable for either the Irish or Scotch batched bread, 
but this prejudice has been completely broken down by experience, and 
now drawplates are in use in nearly all large factories. Improvements in 
details of the working parts of drawplate ovens are being gradually eflfected, 
but fundamental changes from original plans are more difficult. Thus in 
some types the trolley carrying the plate, or at least the end of the runners, 
is quite detached from these until the plate is being actually pulled out; but 
on the principle that in a bakery it is best to have every kind of mechanical 
appliance as simple as possible, it is perhaps better, at any rate the writer 
prefers, to have the wheels carrying the front frame of the oven as a part 
of that frame. An arrangement tried a few years ago was to make the 
oven bottom in lathes carried on chains. This bottom was not pulled out 
in drawplate fashion, but by a mechanical arrangement the loaves placed 
on the lathes at the oven front were carried into the oven chamber until the 
whole batch was set. When baked they were of course returned to the 
oven front in rows in the same manner. The object of this arrangement 
was to supply all the advantages of a drawplate oven for bakeries where 
the space was not sufficient to allow a long plate to be pulled out in the 
ordinary way. The plan did not seem to answer all the expectations of 
the patentees; in any case it was not adapted to many ovens commercially. 
But it is still a great difficulty in very small bakeries to install drawplate 
The Split ovens, advantageous as these might otherwise be, on account 
Drawplate. Qf want of space, and to meet this difficulty the latest expedient 
of one of the leading firms of oven-builders is to use what is aptly called 
a split drawplate (fig. 210). The carriage of the split drawplate is pulled 
out into the bakehouse in the ordinary way but only half the distance. 
By an ingenious hand-wheel arrangement the front half of the plate is 
lowered enough to allow the back half to be pulled over it and loaded 
first; then the front half is raised and loaded. By this expedient only half 
the length of the plate is out at once, and very little room is needed in front 
of the oven, while some saving is also effected in the conservation of heat 



BAKERY OVENS 



301 



which follows from the plate in two sections being only half as long but 
of the oven for filling as the full-length plate must be, although the whole 
time occupied in this operation is not even in the latter case very great. 
The writer has had no personal experience of the " split plate ", but is 
credibly informed that it is giving satisfaction. 

The use of what is called " producer gas " for heating steam-pipe ovens 
has now reached a comparative degree of perfection in some cases only; 
in others there is trouble with both the " producer " plant use of Pro- 
in which the gas is made and with its application to the ducer Gas. 
ovens. The firm that has successfully adapted it to their ovens has now 
plants working in several large bakeries. The description of the method 




Fig. 210.—" Split " Drawplate Oven 



of preparing the gas properly belongs to the chapter on fuel, and here 
it is sufficient to say that after it is made it takes the place of the ordinary 
coke fire in the furnace, but is burned in a special burner, which burns the 
gas mixed with air under the ends of the tubes, the air used for the pur- 
pose being previously heated by being allowed to pass through pipes placed 
in the flues for the purpose. Given an efficient producer that works with- 
out much attention, the economy and regularity of this kind of fuel can 
be easily surmised. It is under perfect control by taps like any other gas 
supply, and can be turned low or high as required, or turned out altogether. 
The pipes can be heated quickly, as compared with the time taken by an 
ordinary coke fire, and the heat can be distributed with uniformity. It 
may be pointed out, however, that the method of heating with gas i^ 
exclusively by convection — the flame may be in direct contact with the 
ends of the pipes, or the hot products of combustion passing over the pipes 
heat them. In this case there is practically little radiant heat effectively 



302 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



used on the pipes, as the flame of burning carbonic oxide (CO), although 
itself very hot, has little radiant energy. Heating ovens by producer gas 
would not be economical if a plant and the burning apparatus had to be 
fitted up for only one oven, but for four or more large ovens the saving 
is considerable. It is highly probable that developments in oven-heating 
wiU be in the direction of the adaptation of producer gas for that purpose, 
and there seems to be no good reason why comparatively small plants for 
its erection should not be devised. 

The steam ovens hitherto noticed have been those with straight tubes, or 
with tubes bent so that their ends may all be clustered in one small furnace, 
but there is now on the market another form of steam-pipe oven called 




Fig. 211.— Hawkins' Patent Kegulated Steam-pipe Oven : Plan 



the " loop tube ", In this particular oven the pipes are bent on themselves, 
Loop-tube so as to give practically double tubes at the front of the oven, 
Ovens. QQ ^}jat the double heat supplied from these may compensate 

for the cooling effects due to the door. Ovens fitted in this way are 
well spoken of as being efiicient bakers, the main advantages claimed 
for them being that they bake the bread uniformly to the front of the 
oven, and that the fuel required is not greater than in the ordinary 
steam oven. 

There are many modifications of steam-pipe ovens now built so little 
different in principle from the original Perkins as not to require notice 
here, except that, as in all other kinds of manufactures, competition has 
Inferior Steam- induced some builders to economize in the wrong direc- 
pipe Ovens. ^ion to enable them to produce cheaply — by using pipes 

of inferior quality, or by considerably reducing the number in the 
oven. 

One firm of oven-builders erect their ovens on a principle quite distinct 
from those already mentioned. The particular oven referred to is the 
Hawkins patent. In this oven the ends of the tubes are not in contact 



BAKERY OVENS 



303 



with the flame, nor in the furnace at all. The furnace is comparatively 
small, with ordinary firebars. The heating tubes have their ends projecting 
into long shallow flues, through which the products of com- The Hawkins 
bustion must pass to get to the chimney. On the principle Oven, 
that the nearer the source of heat the shorter need be the length of tube 
exposed, these tubes project into the flues already mentioned in gradually 
increasing length the farther they are from the furnace. A reference to 
the plan of this oven (fig. 211), in which the first and last tubes in the 
bottom flue are shown, and to fig. 212, illustrates this point, and the claim 
of the oven-builder is that the varying lengths of pipe are so nicely adjusted 
that those farthest from the furnace are at exactly the same temperature, 
and are subject to the same internal pressure, as those near the furnace with 



77—] 




Fig. 212.— Hawkins' Patent Regulated Steam-pipe Oven : Section 



a shorter length exposed, and on that account that there is no danger of 
tubes bursting. The method of heating here adopted is that of convection 
only. No radiant heat from the furnace can affect the pipes, and as the 
hot gases from the fire hav^e to do all the heating, it is necessary that these 
hot gases should pass over the pipes as slowly as possible consistent with 
obtaining a good enough draught to bum the fuel properly, so that the 
pipes will absorb the heat. The fire is essentially a slow-combustion one. 
The patentee of this oven claims that it is extremely economical of fuel, 
and that two, three, or four ovens can be heated from one furnace, and 
all as nearly as possible alike, and that by an arrangement of dampers 
(fig. 213) the heat can be directed to either oven at will, or to the bottom 
or top of the oven as desired. 

Probably the latest type of steam oven on the market at the time of 
writing is that with the registered name of " Hotso ". This steam heating 
system is on entirely different principles from those applied in other steam- 
pipe ovens. In the latter the steam is under very high pressure «« Hotso " 
— the pressure, in fact, increases with the temperature — and it Oven. 
is in sealed pipes, and never allowed to escape. In the " Hotso " oven the 



304 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



steam is superheated in a coil to a high temperature, and then is allowed 
to pass through series of pipes fixed in and under the baking chambers. 
These pipes in turn become highly heated, and radiate their heat into the 
baking chamber. After heating the pipes the steam is allowed to pass 
out of the oven, and may if desired be conv^eyed back to the boiler and 
condensed to water, heating up the water to boiling-point. The essential 
apparatus to heat this oven are a small water-boiler, which may be situated 
in any outhouse away from the bakery, a furnace, and a series of coils of 
pipes called a superheater, and the necessary main pipes to convey the 
superheated steam to the oven and taps to regulate or stop the supply. 
The steam as it comes from the boiler need not be under pressure; then 
it traverses a great length of pipes made up in coils, which are highly 




\\\\\\V 



-wwwV 



i. 



Fig. 213.— Hawkins' Patent Regulated Steam-pipe Oven : Sectional Elevation across Back 

heated externally in a furnace, the fuel being either coke or liquid fuel. 
This superheated steam is then led — not under pressure, but simply as a 
moving current of heated gas — through the radiating coils at the top and 
bottom of each oven chamber, and then passes through an exhaust pipe, 
as described, back to the boiler, or to any other cooking apparatus required. 
According to the patentees, " the amount of superheated steam allowed to 
pass through any of the radiating coils (in the ovens) is regulated by a 
stopcock at the entrance to each coil, so that the supply can be cut off or 
diminished at will " ; and again, " there is but little stored heat required 
in the walls, as it can be supplied evenly from the radiating coils. . . . 
A temperature of 450° F. can be obtained in from one and a half to two 
hours in an oven previously cold in ordinary practice." The writer has 
examined this oven and appliances, but is not aware of any yet tested 
in ordinary work. The superheating of steam under 'pressure is a well- 
known expedient for increasing its efficiency as a power agency, but it 
is quite a novel expedient to heat it en passage through a highly heated 
coil of pipes not under pressure, and the writer was not aware that steam 
under such circumstances could be heated up to the temperature claimed 



BAKERY OVENS 



305 



in this case. On theoretical grounds it seems quite unnecessary to use 
steam as the heating agency, since dry air in sufficient volume passed 
thi'ough a coil of pipes, of which part was highly heated in a furnace, 
would readily acquire the necessary temperature, and if then passed 
through the heat - radiating pipes in the oven would part with its heat 
to those pipes more readily than steam under the same circumstances 
would. If all that is claimed for the oven can be substantiated, there 
would certainly be some advantage in heating or cooling an oven at will, 
and virtually doing the baking by a uniform heat, much in the same way 



FURNACE DOOR 

■7^ — a^ 



STEAM INLET 
THERMOMETEH|t}^- 




STEAM OUTLET 



Fig. 214.— " Viennara" Patent Steam-pipe Oven : Sectional Plan 



as an electric oven, and in being able to regulate the heat by turning a tap. 
But the oven will require to be tested commercially before it can be J)ro- 
perly vouched for in the matter of efficiency and economy, and the longevity 
of the superheater can be properly tested, for on this evidently depends the 
whole value of the oven. 

Allusion has already been made to Vienna ovens of the hot-air type, 
but the steam-tube system is quite as well if not better adapted for ovens 
with sloping bottoms, and the accessories necessary for baking bread in 
an atmosphere of naked steam. Figs. 214-216 show an oven of .. viennara" 
this class with the registered name of "Viennara". The plan Steam-pipe 
shows the position of the furnace at the side of the oven, and 
the position of the pipe for the inlet of naked steam to effect the glaze on 
the bread. The longitudinal section shows the position of the steam outlet 
flue at the top of the oven, so that the steam may be removed fropi the 



VOL. II. 



99 



306 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



oven atmosphere, and the baking of" the bread finished in a quite dry heat 
(see vol. i, p. 203). The front elevation shows the sliding door and the 
handle for control of steam damper, &;c. This type of oven is now be- 



OHMN_Tq .3TE AM^OAM PER „ „ 




OVEN MOUTH 



Fig. 215. — " Viennara" Patent Steam-pipe Oven: Longitudinal Section 

coming much used here for Vienna-bread baking, and an oven of exactly 
similar construction is rapidly taking the place of the oldfashioned sort 
in Vienna, Berlin, and Continental capitals generally. The writer has 



MAW DAMPER^^,_ 



FURNACE DOORC 



ASHPIT DOOR 




Fig. 216.—" Viennara " Patent Steam-pipe Oven : Front Elevation 



been assured by those working with this oven regularly that it is very 
eflScient. 

A concluding general remark about steam ovens is that the essential 
things are the quality of the pipes, the maximum quantity of water in 
them, and the sufficiency of the number in the oven. The oven walls 



FUELS: THEIR COMPOSITION AND HEATING VALUES 307 

should be substantially built, although not necessarily thick, and the 
part above the pipes should be well insulated with a good thickness of 
material, as it is important that the oven structure should Essential Points 
to some extent act as a heat reservoir. The writer favours in steam -pipe 
a small furnace, with the end of the pipes massed into small ^^"s. 
space, rather than the long furnace that needs careful spreading of the 
fuel to obtain uniform heating, fov the smaller furnace seems in his expe- 
rience to be more economical, because easier to control, and there is much 
less danger of losing the heat actually generated. He also favours furnace 
bars with all the pipes above the fire rather than that the pipes them- 
selves should be the bars. These, however, are only opinions, but based 
on experience with various types of steam ovens. 



CHAPTER L 

FUELS: THEIE COMPOSITION AND HEATING VALUES 

Anything that burns will heat an oven, yet some care is needed in 
selecting fuel, and the cheapest is not always the most economical. Burn- 
ing is a chemical process subject to the same laws as other chemical Com- 
chemical combinations. The carbon and the hydrogen of bination and 
the fuel, whatever it may be, unite chemically with the ^^* ^° uction. 
oxygen of the air, and so produce greater or less heat. These two sub- 
stances, carbon and hydrogen, are practically the only sources of heat in 
fuel, yet it must not be understood that they are always burned as pure 
substances. They are both present in organic materials, to which class 
fuels belong, as compounds, and the nature of these compounds deter- 
mines the amount of heat they will give out when burned. Thus, if 
hydrogen is already combined with oxygen, it will be in the form of 
water, and from that portion of hydrogen no heat whatever will be ob- 
tained; but as much heat is required to convert the water into steam, 
the presence of any considerable quantity in the fuel will seriously 
reduce the total heat obtained from it. Again, if the carbon is combined 
in the fuel with the complete quantity of oxygen that satisfies it, it is 
already in the form of carbon dioxide (COg), which is the ultimate product 
of the burning of carbon in oxygen, and therefore cannot be further burned 
so as to produce more heat. But if one part of carbon has formed a 
compound within the fuel with one part of oxygen only (CO), that com- 
pound is combustible and will burn to COg, producing a great deal of heat 
while the change is being effected. It will thus be seen that the actual 
composition of a fuel is not a quite safe index of its heating power. There 
are other substances in fuel also that are themselves quite useless as heat- 
producers, but hinder in a mechanical way the burning of the combustible 



308 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



parts by imprisoning these to some extent, or by forming clinker on the 
furnace bars and considerably reducing the draught through the fire. 
Yet given the composition of a fuel, the theoretical heat production 
can be roughly ascertained, and after making allowances the heating 
values of different sorts of fuel can be compared. It is not necessary in 
a work like this to describe analytical methods of ascertaining the com- 
position, but it will be sufficient to give the proximate analyses of fuels that 
are used in bakers' ovens or in stoves, with the ascertained calorific values. 
The tabulated figures here given may vary somewhat from figures obtained 
from other sources, which differences may readily be explained by real 
Composition variations in the composition of various samples of the same 
of Fuels. kinds of fuel. The table, however, has been compiled from 

the best available sources, and the relative figures may be accepted as 
correct. One pound of fuel is the quantity to which the number of heat 
units given refers. The constituents in the composition are given in 
percentages. 



Fuel. 


Heat Pro- 
duced in 
Heat Units. 


Composition. 
















B.T.U. 


Carbon. 


Hydrogen. 


Oxygen. 


Nitrogen. 


Sulphur. 


A.sh. 


Charcoal 


8,000 


1000 














__ 


Coke 


7,400 


98-4 


— 


— 


— 


1-22 


5-34 


Newcastle coal 


8,200 


82-12 


5-30 


5-7 


1-3 


1-24 


3-77 


Peat (dried) ... 


4,700 


59-0 


6-0 


300 


1-2 


— 


4-0 


Wood (dried) ... 


3,547 


50-0 


6-0 


41-0 


1-0 


— 


2-0 


Carbonic oxide 


2,415 


42-86 


— 


57-14 


— 


— 


— 


Hydrogen 


33,800 


— 


100-0 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Alcohol 


8,000 


52-17 


13-04 


34-79 


— 


— 


— 


Petroleum 


10,700 


85-0 


13-0 


2-0 


— 


— 


— 


Welsh coal 


8,240 


83-78 


4-79 


4-15 


-98 


1-43 


4-91 


Scotch coal 


6,280 


78-53 


5-61 


9-69 


1-0 


1-11 


4-03 


Mar.sh gas 


13,100 


75-0 


25-0 


— 


— 


— 





As the free hydrogen in those fuels combines with the oxygen of the 
air to form water, and the carbon with the oxygen of the air to produce 
either carbonic oxide (CO) or carbon dioxide (CO.2), it is easy to see that 
these fuels wnll require different proportions of air to effect their complete 
combustion. Thus 1 lb. of pure hydrogen burning in air would need 35 lb. 
of air; 1 lb. of pure carbon if burned to carbonic oxide needs 5| lb. of air, 
but if burned to carbon dioxide it requires 11 lb. of air; 1 lb. of dried coal 
needs about 4 lb. of air, and 1 lb. of dried wood only 2| lb., while 1 lb. of 
Air Supply for peat (dried) requires 3;^ lb. of air for its complete combustion. 
Combustion. ^ pound of coke needs 10 lb. of air to burn it thoroughly. 
These are, of course, theoretical figures; but they show how it is that 
some kinds of fuel take longer to burn than others, and they also indicate 
how a much stronger draught is needed to burn, say, 10 lb. of coal in a 
given time than to burn the same weight of wood. In the case of coke the 



FUELS: THEIR COMPOSITION AND HEATING VALUES 309 

draught needed is not so great as in the case of coal, not because coke does 

not requii-e so much air, for it needs more, but because the burning process 

is spread over a longer period. For the following descriptions of the 

various sorts of coal the writer is indebted principally to the large work 

on Chemistry by Roscoe and Schorlemmer. 

Anthracite coal contains a larger proportion of carbon than other coal. 

Its condition and peculiarities are due to its having undergone the most 

complete change from woody fibre. This coal has a bright . , . „ , 

Anthracite Cos! 
lustre, an iron-black colour, and is frequently iridescent. 

Anthracite gradually passes into bituminous coal, becoming less hard, and 
containing more volatile matter. As it burns practically without smoke 
when the draught is sufficient, it is largely used in all circumstances where 
intense heat and freedom from smoke are considerations. Under the name 
of " blind coal " it was, and probably is, used in Scotland for oven-heating 
purposes. The absence of volatile gases in anthracite enables it to be 
burned in almost the same manner as coke — without flame — yet in an 
oven in which this coal is used there is, especially on a fresh fire, fre- 
quently a long pale-blue flame. This is produced by the carbon of the coal 
being formed first into carbonic oxide, which is an inflammable gas; the 
flame is caused by this gas burning. Anthracite can also be used in place 
of gas coke in all types of ovens and furnaces for which the latter is suit- 
able; but, except in favoured localities in the neighbourhood of anthracite 
pits, its price is so much greater than gas coke that the latter is most 
favoured. 

What is called bituminous coal consists of a number of varieties with 
different chemical composition and yielding different products when burned. 
They have the common propert}' of burning with a smoky Bituminous 
flame, and yield on distillation volatile hydrocarbons and tar ^°^^- 
or bitumen, whence their name is derived. The most important kinds 
of bituminous coal are: (1) coking coal, which softens and becomes pasty 
or semi -solid in the fire, and yields, when completely decomposed, a 
greyish-black cellular mass of coke; (2) non-coking coal, which is much 
like the other in its chemical composition and in all its internal char- 
acters, but burns freely without softening and without any appearance 
of fusion: the residue it yields is not a proper coke, but is either in 
powder or in the form of the original coal. This is the common coal of 
commerce. 

Cannel coal, sometimes called parrot coal, is a variety differing from 
bituminous in texture and containing usually more volatile matters, and 
on that account it is specially employed for gas-making. 
Cannel coal is more compact than bituminous, has little or 
no lustre, does not show any banded structure, and has a dull black or 
greyish colour. Small fragments, when lighted, will burn with flame; 
hence the term candle or cannel coal. Although this coal is used mostly 
for gas manufacture, it can be used with advantage in ovens of the side- 
flue type, or others in which a long flame is desirable. 



310 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

Brown coal or lignite is not common in Britain. It consists of 
the remains of trees or shrubs which have been comparatively recently 
Brown Coal submerged and pressed into a form of coal. It is brown in 
or Lignite, colour, and has sometimes a characteristic woody structure. 
The substance called jet is really a black variety of this brown coal. 
Brown coal is only a little higher in the scale as a heating agent than 
peat. There is an earthy brown coal which is very friable, and is some- 
times found in layers between the beds of lignite or true brown coal; 
but this substance differs from a true coal inasmuch as a considerable 
portion of it is soluble in ether and benzine, and even in alcohol, while 
a true coal is nearly if not quite insoluble in these substances. 

Peat, or, as it is sometimes called, " turf ", is a material which is being 
constantly formed by the decomposition of marsh plants, chiefly mosses, 
&c. It also contains nitrogenous compounds, which are the cause 
of the peculiar smell which it gives off" on heating, and it is very 
rich in ash. The manner in which peat is used for heating ovens has 
been already described. Except in country villages near peat moors it 
is not now much used for this purpose. 

Coke, as used by bakers, is the residue left after all the volatile products 
have been driven out of it by heat in the retorts in which it is made. It 
consists essentially of a mass of carbon mixed, of course, with the 
mineral matter that was in the coal. The quality of the coke 
depends very much on the amount of mineral matter it contains. It is 
this mineral matter from which clinker is produced, and the tendency to 
form clinker and its amount are greater the higher the ratio of ash to 
carbon in the coke. When coke is quite fresh its heating power is 
greater than after it has been stored some time. This is due to the 
fact that a sort of slow combustion is going on all the time — part of the 
carbon of the coke is combined chemically with the oxygen of the air and 
carbon dioxide is produced, and this carbon has no further heating effect. 
The gradual oxidation here referred to is, however, so slow that no per- 
ceptible heat is produced while it is going on, yet it reduces the heating 
powers of the coke considerably after a long period. 

It is a common expedient with ovensmen using coke to wet it well 
before charging the furnace with it, the object being to make it burn 
better and brighter. This effect of water is really of a 
mechanical kind. When there is a good deal absorbed in the 
coke this very quickly generates steam when the coke is thrown into 
the furnace, and the solid coke is partly broken down by the effort of 
the steam to escape, and the coke therefore exposes a much larger surface 
to the air passing through the fire while it is burning, and so better com- 
bination takes place and the coke burns brightly. But this effect is not 
produced without some loss of heat, for the water requires a good deal of 
heat to change it into steam. It will be noted, therefore, that wet coke has 
not really more heating power than dry coke, but when it starts to burn it 
burns quicker for the reason stated. 



FUELS: THEIR COMPOSITION AND HEATING VALUES 311 

It is a mistake to throw coke on a fire in very large pieces, as some men 
do. The fire has then to do the purely mechanical work of breaking up 
coke, and some of the heat is used up in that process, and is Small Pieces 
therefore not available for its own proper work of heating °^ ^°^^ Best, 
the oven. In addition, large pieces of coke do not give nearly so much 
heat as small pieces. If quite dry they do not break down readily, and when 
they burn as large pieces it is only tiie outside surface that burns, and this 
is a comparatively small surface in relation to the total bulk of the solid 
matter. The most efficient coke fire is made by using the coke in small 
pieces of uniform size. 

Reference has already been made to the method of burning coke in 
Scotch and in certain types of externally-heated ovens in which economy 
is secured by effecting combustion at two stages, instead of Economical 
completing it in the furnace proper. In this method the air ^^^ °^ Coke, 
supply is insufficient under the fire, but is augmented by a supply over it, 
so that the first stage consists in some part of converting the coke into 
carbon monoxide, and this substance burns with a long pale-blue flame 
above the fire, thus projecting the point of maximum heat a considerable 
distance from the furnace proper. This system is not suitable, however, 
for ovens of the steam-pipe class if the ends of the pipes are actually in the 
furnace, as there the maximum heat is more eft'ective if in the furnace 
proper. But whatever kind of oven is being heated there is an economical 
and a wasteful method of using the fuel. Thus it is wasteful if the quan- 
tity of fuel is greater than the air space between the bars will supply 
draught for — that is, if the fire is too large — unless there is an air supply 
above the fire to burn the inflammable gas produced. It is wasteful in the 
case of steam-pipe ovens when you have too quick a draught; when there 
is a small fire and too much draught; when the fire is allowed to burn low 
and then a large charge of fresh fuel is piled on; and when the coke is used 
in large lumps. On the other hand, economy is obtained when the draught 
is nicely regulated to the size and condition of the fire; when the fire is 
kept very bright; when it is not allowed to burn into holes or to burn too 
low before fresh charges of coke are added. If a record is carefully kept 
of the amount of coke used per day on an oven before any goods are baked 
in it, this matter of the economical use of the fuel will be easily demon- 
strated. It is quite a common occurrence in the bakery for a much larger 
quantity of fuel to be used than is necessary and larger than the equivalent 
heat obtained. The table on p. 312, taken from a published lecture of the 
writer, illustrates this point. 

The heat ratio to fuel for this same oven on other occasions has been as 
high as 4° F. per lb. of coke used, but the tabulated figures here given show 
how variable the results may be. How variable they are in Firing 
-everyday bakehouse practice is not generally known, as detailed Records, 
records of firing are seldom kept so accurately as they should be. It is not 
enough that the cost of fuel week by week and month by month be ascer- 
tained, but the quantity used each day, with the increase of heat obtained 



312 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



Heating Tests on Steam-Pipe Oven 





Oven Heated 

from 
Temperature. 


To Tempera- 
ture. 


In 

Hours. 


.-. Through 
Temperature. 


Quantity 

of Coke 

Used. 


Ratio of Rise 
in Tempera- 
ture per lb. 
of Coke. 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 


Fahr. 
375° 
375° 

350° 
305° 
370° 
390° 


Fahr. 
465° 
480° 
435° 
420° 
435° 
440° 


5 

6 
4 
4 
4 

5 


Fahr. 

90° 
105° 

85° 
115° 

65° 

50° 


Lb. 

55 

42i 

64" 

47 

75 

42 


Fahr.deg.|}erlb. 
1-63° 
2*5° 
1-32° 

2-5° 

•87° 
1-2° 



from its burning. On the weekly or monthly record several days of eco- 
nomical firing within the period may be sufficient to compensate for other 
days of wasteful work, and so the average for the whole period may be 
quite good. But a daily account, which is not difficult to keep, shows the 
ovensman as well as the employer that the good firing may be as easily 
repeated as the bad, and in consequence greater care is likely to be exer- 
cised, to the advantage of everyone except the coke merchant. 

Coke and coal being solid substances, the lumps variable in size, and the 
furnace and expedients for catching the heat being difficult to regulate. 
Heating of there have been many attempts made within the last few 

Ovens by Gas. yg^rs to apply gaseous fuel for oven -heating purposes. 
Ordinary coal gas has long been in use in small ovens, the gas being burned 
practically in the oven chamber in the ordinary atmospheric burners, which 
consist essentially of perforated pipes open at one end for the admission of 
air, which mixes with the gas before it ignites and ensures its complete 
combustion. This is, of course, the most economical method of burning gas 
for heating purposes, and but for cost there is no reason why ordinary gas 
could not be used to heat large ovens, even those of the steam-pipe sort. 
The obvious advantages of burning gas for oven-heating instead of solid 
fuel are its cleanness, the ease with which it can be regulated, and the 
absence of waste in the starting and residual fires. 

Several systems of gas-manufacturing plants have been designed and 
applied to the heating of steam-pipe ovens, but they have not all been 
successful. The special apparatus for gas production is called 
a " producer plant ", and the gas manufactured " producer 
gas". These plants have long been in use for power purposes, but for 
oven-heating they are comparatively new. The apparatus consists of a 
cylindrical receptacle with thick insulated walls, but closed at the top 
except for gas outlets, and only partly open at the bottom, or only having 
pipes to provide a limited air supply. When the apparatus is to be used, 
a fire is lit at the bottom, generally with coal, and then the cylinder is 
filled up to a depth of 2 or 3 ft. with coke similar to that in ordinary use 
by the baker. The whole mass of fuel becomes highly heated, but the 



Producer Gas. 



FUELS: THEIR COMPOSITION AND HEATING VALUES 313 

air supply from the bottom is kept purposely detieient; the result is that 
the carbon of the coke burns in a supply only sufficient to form carbon 
monoxide, and as there is no air at the top of the tire to allow this gas to 
burn it is collected as a gas in a receiver, and from there conveyed by pipes 
to special burners underneath the ends of the steam pipes in the oven 
furnace. The working of the producer plant is practically automatic, 
requiring no attention except to see that a sufficient supply of coke is 
maintained. There are no mechanical appliances connected with it. It 
needs to be charged with fuel only once in eight or nine hours, and then 
only needs to be observed from time to time to prevent the fire from burn- 
ing into holes or from being choked with clinker. One successful oven 
plant of this kind known to the writer can be kept alight for days if not 
required, and the generation of gas can be stopped by simply cutting 
off the air supply. There is no storage tank or purifying apparatus 
attached beyond that in the producer itself: the gas is led straight into 
the oven in which it is to be burned. 

In the special producer referred to above, which is really a modified 
form of producer and water-gas plant, the air supply which keeps the fire 
going is heated before it enters the generator, and an automatic Water-Gas 
arrangement also supplies a small quantity of water vapour P^^"*- 
which passes through the fire along with the air and is broken up into its 
constituents, the resultant producer gas therefore containing a quantity of 
free hydrogen which has a very high heating power. The gas from the 
producer is conveyed by a pipe to the combustion chamber (oven furnace), 
where it issues in a thin film under the end of each steam pipe. At the 
same time it is mixed with air also in a thin film, but the latter is previously 
heated by passing through a pipe located in the oven flue. The air and 
gas impinging on each other are intimately mixed, and being lighted by an 
electric spark or otherwise the mixture burns with a pale-blue flame pro- 
ducing much heat. The special burner is so arranged that the flame nearly 
envelops the ends of the pipes, and passes along the row of pipes, parting 
with its heat on the passage before it finally reaches the flue. Each oven 
or each separate row of pipes can have a series of burners for itself. As 
gas and air are both gaseous they are easily mixed, and the combustion is 
more complete than is the case with solid fuel ; then, as the area of the oven 
pipes is small they can be more eft'ectively heated with gas than with the 
flame of undistributed gases from an ordinary fire. 

Producer gas proper consists essentially of carbon monoxide (CO), but 
all kinds of modifications have been made for the admixture of hydrogen 
from water vapour or steam, which mixture in its extreme producer Gas 
quantities is the basis of what has been called " water gas ". and Water Gas 
We shall try to explain the difference in the two kinds of ^°^P^^^'^- 
gas. A water-gas plant, like the other described, consists of an iron cylinder 
jacketed and insulated. This is filled to a depth of 3^ or 4 ft. with bitu- 
minous coal or with coke, which is lighted at the bottom as in a producer 

apparatus. There is no air supply to keep the fire burning, except through 
Vol. II. 100 



314 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

a pipe connected with a pressure boiler. From this a mixture of steam and 
air is injected into the producer. In some types the steam and air are not 
injected together. The air is forced in first until the whole of the contained 
coke is raised to a white heat; the air supply is then shut off, and steam 
under pressure and in a finely divided state is injected through the mass 
of white-hot coke. In these circumstances the steam is dissociated into its 
elements oxygen and hydrogen, the oxygen of the water or steam forming 
carbon monoxide with the carbon of the coke, while the hydrogen of the 
steam remains a free gas. The water gas can then be collected as it comes 
from the producer, and consists of a mixture of carbon monoxide and 
hydrogen, which mixture has a very high calorific value. This cycle of air 
and steam blasts is continued at regular intervals. The diflference between 
this system and the producer system first mentioned is in the nature of the 
gas mixture, and the necessity for some form of mechanical power in con- 
nection with the former to open and shut valves, and to supply the alternate 
blasts of air and steam. The high heating value of water gas would make 
it quite suitable for oven-heating, but the elaboration of plant necessary 
and the machinery parts add so much to the expense and the cost of 
attendance, that the automatic arrangement first described is likely always 
to find more favour in connection with bakers' ovens, especially as ordinary 
producers can be made for very small requirements. 

Except in the case of the " Hotso " oven, already noticed, the writer has 
not heard of liquid fuel being used for heating ovens, but there does not 
T • -H F seem to be any difficulty except cost in its use with ovens of 

the steam-pipe sort. 

It may be worth noting here that in connection with small experimental 
baking plants attached to some large flour mills, the heating power of the 
Electric ovens is electricity. The baking chamber is surrounded with 
Heating, a coil of high resistance which can be heated to any temperature 
at once, and baking operations can be conducted at any time desired. The 
adaptability of the oven for immediate use at any time is compensation, in 
the circumstances of the miller's bakery, for the high initial and mainten- 
ance cost, but under present conditions these costs prohibit the use of such 
a system of heating in ordinary commercial bakeries, 

A chapter on fuels and oven-heating would hardly be complete without 

a few notes on draught, the conditions that hinder and those which favour 

it. There are certain points about draughts that nearly everyone 
Draught. . , . 

knows, although not everyone knows their explanation. Thus it 

is well known that a close fire burns better and easier than an open one; 

that a fire burns better on a very cold day than on a warm close one; that 

the draught is poor when a fire is newly lit; that when there is a separate 

chimney to each fire, particularly to each oven fire, the draught is better 

than when many flues enter one chimney; that a high chimney, other 

things equal, gives a better draught than a low one. Before dealing with 

these specific points it may be as well to explain exactly what causes 

a draught at all. The draught in a chimney is the result of the hot air in 



FUELS: THEIK COMPOSITION AND HEATING VALUES 315 

the chimney being much lighter, bulk for bulk, than a column of the same 
area and height of the cold air outside the chimney. To understand the 
principle of the matter, imagine the chimney to be one arm of a great U 
tube, the other arm being an imaginary stack of the same height as the 
chimney, but filled with air at the temperature of the atmosphere. The 
cold air balances or overbalances the hot air in the chimney, and pushes it 
upwards, because the whole weight of the latter is so much lighter than the 
whole weight of the former. Then as air or any gas becomes lighter the 
hotter it is, so the hotter the air in the chimney is the lighter it is compared 
with the outside air and the stronger push the latter exercises on it — in 
other words, the draught becomes stronger. This explains why the draught 
is so much better in connection with a close as compared with an open fire, 
because in the former the products of combustion are hot and pass up the 
chimney alone, while in the latter they are mixed with much cold air, and 
are therefore cooler. This also accounts for the better draught on a cold 
day than on a warm one, because on the former the outside air is colder, and 
therefore heavier than on the latter, and therefore its overbalancing effect is 
greater, that is, the draught is greater. The coldness and therefore heavi- 
ness of the air in the chimney when a fire is newly lit accounts for the poor 
draught at that stage. But it should be particularly noticed that it is not 
the absolute but the relative weight of the air column that is the essential 
in draught production. Thus a tall chimney gives a better draught than a 
low one, because the relative difference in weight between two tall columns 
of hot and cold air is much greater than the differences in weight between 
two short columns at the same temperatures. The bad effects following the 
impact of several flues into one chimney are due to the fact that a stream 
of hot air entering the chimney from the highest up flue has a certain 
" way " on it, and from its opening may flow across to the opposite wall of 
the chimney to that at M'hich it enters before it takes a direction upwards, 
and to some extent may act as a damper to the currents from the other 
flues, particularly if the products of combustion from any of these are colder 
and heavier. The use of chimney pots on the top of chimneys as draught 
improvers is to prevent the undue expansion and cooling of the upward 
current of hot air; the narrowing of built chimneys is for the same purpose. 
Cowls and other expedients are to prevent down draughts of cold air, which 
have both a cooling and retarding influence on the upward currents. Yet 
it is obviously not good policy to allow the hot products from an oven fur- 
nace to enter the chimney very hot, as they are past their work of heating 
the oven then; hence the economy of slow-combustion furnaces and other 
expedients which do not require a quick draught as long as it is sufficient. 
It is better, therefore, in connection with oven-heating to adopt all contriv- 
ances that will conserve heat in the chimney, and all contrivances that 
will ensure complete combustion of fuel and its economical use, than to 
obtain draught by letting much of the heat pass up unused. 



316 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

CHAPTER LI 
MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 

We are now so familiar with machinery of all kinds in the bakery 
that it is difficult to realize thai in 1860 machinery for bread-making or 
Introduction of confectionery was something of a marvel, whilst ten years 
Machinery into earlier it was non-existent. This last statement may need 
t e a ery. qualifying in a certain sense, because there were many 

efforts made, as the patent records show, to apply mechanical agencies to 
mixing and kneading dough, but these were not adopted in a commercial 
way by the trade, probably because their effectiveness was not sufficiently 
demonstrated by their inventors; because the baking trade of that day was 
in the hands of small bakers for the most part; and because there were no 
small and cheap power agencies like gas or oil engines or electric motors, 
and if power was needed it had to be wind or water or steam, and either of 
these implied much initial expense and larger operations than the great 
majorit}'^ of bakers could contemplate. It has been confidently asserted 
that the first dough-making machines for hand power originally were in 
use in Glasgow about 1850, but there are no very reliable data on this 
point. In 185eS a Mr. Deacon, of 11 Chester Street, Kennington Lane, 
London, was the only baker in that city then using a machine for dough- 
making. This was the invention of M. Holland, a French baker, who was 
also the inventor of the original type of oven already mentioned as the 
Rotary. This machine also was hand-driven. It was undoubtedly in 
Glasgow that machinery was first used on a large scale, the type oif 
machine being that in which the mixing parts are like the thick blades 
of knives working on a frame, and with sets passing each other in opposite 
directions. 

The growth of bread factories has been the immediate and inevitable 
result of the adoption of machinery in both bread and small goods depart- 
Growth of ments, and bakers in a small way of business have been 

Large Factories, jjq^ unnaturally alarmed, and think that these factories are 
likely to destroy their trades entirely. This view is probably a wrong one, 
or at least may readily be made so if the small bakers will only exert them- 
selves to follow the stricter economies and correct business methods of the 
factories, instead of continuing the loose and haphazard methods that too 
often prevail in the small bakery. It is the method of the large establish- 
ment rather than its machinery that gives it the advantage over the small 
bakery. The only part of the bread-making process in which machinery 
can effect any considerable saving in cost of labour is in connection with 
mixing and other processes in the manipulation of the loaves, but bread 
is one of those commodities in which the cost of labour of manufacture 
is relatively small in any case. Even in a comparatively small bakery 
it may not be more than 2s. 6d. per sack (280 lb.) of flour, while in 




< 

H 
Z 

< 

< 

c/) 

m 

u- 
O 

Qi 
UJ 
Z 

O 

u 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 317 

the lai'gest factory, with almost automatic plant, it may be as much as 
Is. 6d. per sack, and can in the present state of machinery cost of Labour 
development be hardly less than Is. per sack. This per Sack of Flour, 
lowest estimate gives the factory an apparent advantage of Is. Qd. per sack, 
which may be augmented by the advantage a large firm has in buying 
flour, &c., in considerable quantities. But whether the large firm distributes 
wholesale or retail, the cost for distribution is always much higher than the 
proportionate costs in the smaller business. The latter distributes its bread, 
&c., in a narrow area surrounding the shop, and in cases uses up the residue 
labour from the bakery for the purpose, while a good deal of the trade may 
be actually done over the counter. On the other hand, the factory has to 
send its bread far from the establishment, and, even in the area served, the 
customers may be much scattered. These conditions all absorb energy and 
increase cost of distribution, and this increase over the costs of the small 
baker for the same department of the business may be considerably greater 
than the advantage gained by saving in the cost of manufacture. Now 
that dough-making machines can be obtained at a moderate price and motors 
may be hired, it is a very small bakery indeed that cannot profitably employ 
such a machine, and when dough-making is done the most exhausting part 
of the work is over. The question is very frequently asked whether a 
trade of fifteen sacks or so is sufficient to warrant the purchase of a dough- 
making machine. All experience teaches that it does; indeed, in twenty 
years or so the bakery in which dough is hand-made will be the exception. 
The prejudice against machines for dough-making is now almost dead 
but one still hears the assertion made that " machines kill the dough and 
never make it as good as that made by hand ". This idea is Machine- 
based on the fact that hand-made dough does, unless very made Dough, 
tight, give signs of fermenting quicker than machine-made dough. This is 
only because the latter is at first closer in texture and its gluten tougher 
than that of the former, and until a considerable quantity of gas is produced 
within the dough it does not so readily become soft and spongy as the 
other. But in spite of the absence of signs of working the yeast is probably 
fermenting as quickly in the one case as in the other, and the macliine- 
made dough works quicker at the later stages than the hand-made, and 
certainly ferments more steadily. The fault ascribed to a machine of 
" felling " the dough is often an imaginary one because the dough happens 
to feel solid. There is not any danger of hurting the dough by pressure 
at the making stage be that ever so severe, while very thorough mixing 
helps to toughen the gluten and to enable it to become better hydrated (to 
absorb more water), and the quantity of dough is in consequence increased. 
One kind of fermentation-retarding effect the machine may have is in con- 
siderably reducing the temperature of the dough below the point at which 
the yeast works satisfactorily. In ordinary circumstances this cooling effect 
can be duly allowed for by keeping up the temperature of the water, but in 
very cold weather there is some difficulty about this. It is better, therefore, 
that the dough should be kept in the mJEichine as short a time as possible 



ai8 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

provided that it is thoroughly mixed, especially in cold weather. It is 
possible, when through any cause the dough is mixed for a long time, it may 
be cooled so much as to work very slowly and to be still unripe in the time 
that it is usually quite ready. This warning is not needless, although 
there are cases in which the dough may be actually left to ripen in the 
machine altogether, a method sometimes followed by those using a machine 
called the " Globe ". This machine is a large hollow sphere suspended from 
The "Globe" Dough- the ceiling of the bakery, its internal mechanism con- 
making Machine. sisting of large knives that revolve and cut through 

the dough while mixing it. The capacity of the sphere is considerable 
enough in some cases to allow five sacks to be mixed at once; therefore 
if only two sacks are made into dough, there is plenty of room within 
the machine to allow the dough to prove. As this machine is invariably 
fixed in the ceiling, the atmosphere surrounding it is warm and the machine 
itself is also warm. It seems evident that in a moderately warm bakery 
a machine has neither a " felling " nor a cooling effect on the dough. Were 
it otherwise the dough would be entirely destroyed in those machines that 
require to mix it for as long as twenty minutes, the machine working all 
the time at a high speed — in such a machine, for instance, as the Corby, 
so extensively used for pan bread in the United States and Canada. 

An opinion prevalent amongst bakers and encouraged by engineers is 
that the virtue in a machine consists in the speed with which it can make 
Speed in Dough- dough: the machine that mixes in six minutes is sup- 
making Machines, posed to be ever so much better than the one taking 
eight minutes. It is not in the saving of time only that the excellence lies, 
but it is assumed that the speedy mixer is also the light mixer, and the 
lightly mixed dough is supposed to be most like that made by hand. There 
is not much in this contention. Lightness of dough is not everything, 
and thorough mixing is important. Nor does the quick-mixing machine 
necessarily save the machineman's time, for if the whole operation is only 
to occupy four minutes, he is likely to stand at the machine waiting on it; 
but if the process occupies ten to fourteen minutes, then he may be getting 
on with some other work while the machine is in operation. As a time- 
saver only, a dough-making machine to a small baker is not so very impor- 
tant, but as an energy-saver it is. In a trade of from twelve to fifteen 
sacks, the whole operation of dough-making by hand occupies not more 
than from one and a half to two hours per day, or a weekly total of from 
nine to twelve hours. The use of a machine will not entirely remove this 
time charge. It will still be necessary to " pitch " the flour, measure water, 
ascertain temperature, weigh yeast, salt, &c., start the machine and attend 
to it, and attend to the dough when finished. After due allowances are 
made, the whole time saved is probably not more than five or six hours per 
week, and as this time is no appreciable proportion of a week's work for 
a man, it is quite evident that a dough-making machine in a small business 
of this sort will not allow of a reduction of the stafl"; all it will do is to 
relieve the men from the most exhausting part of the day's work, and in 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 319 

consequence improve their capacity for doing the remainder of the work 
better, and for doing a little more each when occasion arises. This applies 
also to larger trades of twenty or forty sacks per week, j^^^ h-makin 
If a trade which nominally requires five men, when Machinery and 
hand work is the rule, is assisted by machinery, the staflf Labour-saving, 
may then be reduced by one man, so that four men with dough-making 
machinery only should be able to do as much work as five men without. 
But it seldom happens that the adoption of machinery entails a reduction 
of staff"; it is usually rather followed by more business and a larger staff. 
The expense incurred seems to act as a spur to sharpen up the master 
baker to improve his methods in all directions, and in most cases increased 
business is the result. To the small master who is his own foreman a 
dough-making machine sometimes makes all the difference between success 
and failure. Many a thoroughly good baker has undone himself after 
starting in business by tying himself too closely to the bakehouse and using 
up all his energy there, leaving himself neither time nor energy to look 
after his books and the trading side of his business. 

The following general remarks on dough-making machines are taken 
from a lecture delivered by the writer and published by the National 
Association of Master Bakers. " I don't think any great Hand-driven 
advantage can accrue to the baker in the use of a machine Machines Useless, 
driven by hand power. A man is himself a very defective machine, and I 
cannot see what appliance on a machine will husband his energy, however 
much it may increase his power. In other words, I don't think a man can 
make dough by a hand machine with greater ease than he should be able 
to do without its assistance: if it requires more energy in less time, or less 
energy at the moment but spread over a much longer time than the ordinary 
method of making dough, it is equally uneconomical as a machine. 

" With regard to the power-driven machine, the less complicated it is the 
better it meets the requirements of the bakery. Its parts should be simple 
and strong, and as nearly unbreakable as possible. It Requirements of 
should be well finished and smooth, and the parts requiring a Good Power- 
cleaning easily got at. It should not have a centre shaft, °"^^" Machine, 
nor should the blades be subjected to great leverage when at work; it 
should not require excessive power to drive it, although the power in- 
stalled is usually greater than what is absolutely needed. One error in 
which engineers for some time were involved was in endeavouring to 
make a machine do too many different operations. They were no doubt 
driven to this by the demands of bakers, but these demands were evidently 
conceived in ignorance of the kind of thing a machine is and the purpose 
for which it is intended. I have repeatedly heard men profess a preference 
for one machine over another, not because it actually mixed quicker or 
better, but because it had arms shaped something like a man's and because 
the motion was also somewhat similar. ... I should consider this the very 
poorest recommendation a machine could have. The only thing a mixing 
machine should do is to mix. If it does this properly in the minimum of 



320 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

time with the least expenditure of energy, and the least strain and wear, 
then, other things equal, it is the ideal machine, whatever the shape of its 
arms or whatever its motion. If it is deficient in any of these essential 
particulars, then to that extent it is faulty, and the likeness of its arms 
to those of a man is no saving grace. 

" The mixing machine that is required to ' break sponge ' as a pre- 
liminary to making dough has been provided on the demand of the baker. 
Machines that This requires two speeds on the machine, which necessitates 
Break Sponge, complicated gearing and makes the machine more liable to 
go wrong in working, without any compensation in improvement in the 
dough. Because a baker, when he makes his bread on the sponge-and- 
dough system, has to spend a good part of the time in breaking up 
sponge in the water before drawing in the flour, it is assumed that dough 
cannot be right unless the same process is followed in every detail when 
a machine performs the operation. , . . While it is absolutely necessary 
that in hand work the greatest care must be exercised in thoroughly 
breaking up sponge, because if this is not done the subsequent mixing 
of dough does not properly deal with every particle, and the pieces of 
sponge may remain as sponge to the end, the same rule does not apply 
to a machine, simply because it deals with the dough in minute detail, 
and particles of sponge get stretched and mixed as thoroughly as if 
they had previously been dissolved in the doughing water. ... A 
machine that is a good dough-mixer is very likely to be a bad sponge- 
breaker, for the double reason that the open-arm arrangement best for 
sponge-breaking is faulty for the heavier work of dough-making, and that 
the centrifugal motion imparted to the sponge by quickly revolving arms 
is not conducive to easy breaking of wet sponge. The sponge is more 
likely to slip round and over the arms than to be broken up by them; 
while the disadvantage of having the sponge and water a long time in the 
machine, probably losing heat all the time, is greater than any advantage 
that may accrue from having the sponge broken up in the water. But 
better than all considerations of this kind is the fact that dough made with 
sponge that is simply placed in the machine with flour and water and other 
ingredients, and the whole thoroughly mixed together, is in all respects 
satisfactory dough, ferments freely, and produces a loaf of as even a texture 
as anyone could desire. This does not, of course, imply that two speeds 
on a dough machine is a needless elaboration. When both slack and stiff" 
doughs are required for different kinds of bread, it is a decided advantage 
to have a quick speed for the former and a slow speed for the latter, and 
the power needed will be about the same in both cases." 

When about to choose a machine, the selection should be guided by 
the number of men available to handle the dough afterwards, and by 
Choice of ^^^ oven capacity to bake it, for nothing so readily causes 

Dough-mixing irregularity in the bread as having the batches of dough 
ac ine. ^^^ |^-^ £^^. ^j^^ oven capacity. The piece left over, whether 

mixed with the next batch or baked by itself, is always unsatisfactory. 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 321 

It is a very bad plan to have large lots of dough made with only a small 
statF to handle it. A very satisfactory arrangement is to make the doughs 
equal in every case to the capacity of the oven the loaves are to be baked 
in. If the staff is large, then the doughs may be made equal in size to 
the capacity of a series of ovens that can be filled in consecutive order 
in about one hour. 

There is little uniformity in methods followed in making doughs in 
machines. In some establishments the practice is to sift the flour into the 
machine, then to start it working and let the water run Methods of 
in while it is being mixed. By following this plan there Machine Dough- 
is a danger of stiff pieces of dough being formed which "^^ ^"^* 
require afterwards to be softened down with the water subsequently 
added. The opposite method is followed in other bakeries. The water 
is let into the machine first, then the flour is sifted on top of it. This 
plan is likely to be less troublesome than the other, because the dough 
is mixed first into a soft paste, becoming of gradually increasing stiffness 
as the flour is sifted in. This method produces a smooth, well-mixed 
dough. Care has to be taken, however, that the machine does not cool 
the water overmuch before it is mixed into dough, as it readily may 
if the mixing is delayed in any way. The most satisfactory method 
is to sift flour first into the machine, then to run in all the water and 
all the other ingredients before the mixing is started, and then to mix 
all at once. 

The competition amongst engineers has now become so keen that a 
serviceable installation of machinery suitable for a trade of forty sacks, 
and with a cake and sponge machine, can be procured 
for about £200, and the probability is that bakers will 
soon be able to obtain machines on hire or on the hire-purchase system. 
The running expenses of such a plant, working up to full capacity, 
would probably not be more than 10s. a week. When the baker 
has decided to obtain machinery, his great difficulty is in making a 
selection from amongst the many varieties of machines he is offered. The 
most familiar type now on the market is the machine patented about 
1885 by Mr. Paul Pfleiderer, and called by his firm the The "Universal" 
" Universal " because it has been adapted for mixing all Dough-mixer, 
sorts of ingredients besides bread (see figs. 217 and 218). It is sold in 
various forms for mixing pills, cordite, rubber, cement, &c. It seems to be 
equally effective for all purposes, whether the ingredients are wet or dry, 
soft or tough. Its original purpose, however, was that of a dough-mixing 
machine, and |it very early established itself as a thoroughly efficient appli- 
ance, although its comparatively high cost on account of its substantiality 
prevented its adoption by the smaller bakers. As the patents for this 
machine have run out for several years, it has been very largely copied 
by other makers. The main points of this machine are that it consists of 
two cast ends, round which a sheet-iron half -drum is riveted. The internal 
mechanism consists of two blades twisted Z-shape at varying angles, 

VOL. II. 101 



322 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



but made so that as they revolve they are close to the interior of the 
drum, carrying the dough round with them, and cutting and pressing it 
between them as they meet in the centre of the drum, or shearing it 
between them and a ridge in the centre, which really acts as a third 
blade. The bends on the blades are of different lengths and they are 
geared to run at different speeds. The effect of these conditions is to 
shift the mass of dough backward and forward in the machine and to 
carry it as well from one end to the other until the mixing is thoroughly 
done. This machine works slowly, yet a dough is very efficiently mixed 

in from eight to fourteen 
minutes according to its size. 
A machine on the same prin- 
ciple is made with only one 
blade for small doughs. In 
this case the sides of the 
drum act as the holding sur- 
face, against which the single 
blade cuts and mixes the 
dough. The power is ap- 
plied to the machine by two 
pulleys, one with a straight 
the other with a crossed belt. 
Either can be made 
fast to the working 
parts by means of a 
friction clutch, so that the 
machine can be run forward 
or reversed. This arrange- 
ment is extremely useful 
and expedites the mixing. 
Thus, after the machine has 
been running forward for 
some time, the blades may 
retain around them some dry flour which is carried round without 
mixing. The blades are immediately cleared when they are reversed, and 
the previously imprisoned flour is scattered over the dough and thoroughly 
incorporated. On account of the blades of this machine being broad and 
blunt, it has been suggested, wholly on theoretical grounds, that it is likely 
to "fell" or unduly solidify the dough; but in practice, as the writer can 
vouch from a lengthy experience, there is no damage whatever done to the 
dough. Although, for the reason already given, it takes a little time after 
dough is made before it shows active signs of working, yet the fermen- 
tation is proceeding all the same, and the dough afterwards becomes 
free enough and produces bright-looking loaves with a fine texture. All 
sorts of variations have been introduced in the shape of the arms of 
the machine and in their mode of motion, but there is nothing quite dis- 




Fig. 217.— " Universal " Dough-kneading Machine 




f} 



z 

O 

< 

O 
z 



Q 

i 
O 

D 

O 

Q 

Qi 

m 

Q 
Z 

U 

:d 
O 




Q 



uu 






< 

< 
z 

Z 

UU 



O 
z 

UJ 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 



323 



l^$ii=;=0 



tinctive in the principle of any of the machines to warrant special notice. 

Quite recently a machine on a new principle has been introduced called 
the " Viennara " (see Plate). This is a cylindrical machine fixed at an 
angle, and with one strong arm with a sort of branched The "Viennara" 
or forked head. The drum or cylinder of the machine Machine, 
revolves while the dough is making, and at the same time the arm plunges 
down into the mixture and then lifts or pulls a portion of it upwards 
and folds it over; the double action of revolving drum and the lifting 
arm ensures that every portion of the dough is thoroughly mixed and 
toughened. The 

toughening part of 
the process is so com- 
plete that on account 
of it a much larger 
quantity of water is 
required to hydrate 
the gluten of the 
flour, and the yield 
of bread is in con- 
sequence much in- 
creased. The paten- 
tees of this machine 
claim that the in- 
creased yield and im- 
proved texture and 
appearance produced 
by the action of this 
machine are advan- 
tages so great as to 
make it worth while 
for the baker to take 
out one of the older 
type of machines 

and install one of the Viennara. There are several other types of machines 
consisting of a pan or drum that revolves with one or more arms moving 
upwards and downwards through the dough to mix it, but in principle 
there is little difference between them and the machine just described in 
some detail. 

In Germany, Belgium, and the United States there is a dough-making 
machine in considerable favour, which consists of an ordinary movable iron 
trough with a round bottom, into which a revolving arm can Q^rman 
be turned. This arm revolves slowly through the dough Dough-making 
mixture from one end of the trough to the other, backwards ^^'^^*"*- 
and forwards, until the dough is thoroughly mixed. When this is accom- 
plished, the trough part of the machine can be turned away for the dough 
to prove, and another empty trough placed in position under the arm for 




Fig. 218.— "Universal " Kneading Machine, Tilted 



324 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



another dough to be made. Fig. 219 shows this machine, with the trough 
part moved out of the position it occupies when dough is being made. 

The dough-making machine which has within the last few years found 
most favour amongst small bakers is what is known as the Drum machine. 
The Drum This was originally the invention of an Irish baker, Mr. 

Dough-making Adair, and consisted in its original form of a large round 
ac me. drum fixed at one end of a strong arm or shaft, but without 

any movable arms internally. The ultimate developments in this machine 
consisted in having two cast-iron ends to the machine with spindles, and 
these supported on A-shaped legs. The doors, of which there are two, are 




I Fig. 219. — Qei-man Dough-mixer 

fixed on the circumference, and are made water-tight with indiarubber 
packing between the door and the openings. In the interior there are 
no moving parts whatever, but three, four, or more iron rods are bolted 
across the machine, and across these the dough is cut or broken as it is 
carried round by the machine. The revolutions of the machine are very 
slow, about fourteen in a minute, and at each revolution, as the dough 
mixture is carried to the top of the machine, it drops across the rods; 
and as this operation is repeated over and over again, a complete admix- 
ture of all the parts takes place. In some machines, instead of single rods 
fixed across the machine, movable grids are used. The effects are similar 
to those obtained with rods only, and it is doubtful if the alteration to 
grids is any improvement. Those who are unfamiliar with this type of 
machine have an idea, evidently because the doors are comparatively small, 
that the machine is difficult to clean. The writer is practically familiar 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 



325 



Bread-dividers. 



with this machine, and can assert that it is really easier to clean than a 
machine with arms. The dough can be made perfectly in this machine, 
but one of the drawbacks attached to its use is the difficulty of examining 
the dough from time to time as it is being made. This, however, is not 
wholly a disadvantage, since it forces the baker for his own sake to 
calculate nicely the quantity of flour and water he should use for each 
dough, and makes him also very careful in his weighings and measure- 
ments. Fig. 220 shows a modern drum machine with internal grids and 
a patent clutch to start and stop the machine. 

Up to about a dozen years ago the whole machinery in even a large 
bread bakery consisted of one or two dough machines with tempering tank 

attached for water and sifter for flour. 
In Scottish bakeries there may have 
been a dough brake and a sponge- 
stirrer also. The next development 
was in the matter of 
bread - dividers. The 
first type of divider was on the same 
principle as the older and familiar 
bun-divider. A weighed quantity of 
dough is spread in a square iron box; 
a presser or plunger descends and 
presses the dough and spreads it to 
fill the box; then knives descend 
through the presser and cut the dough 
into an equal number of pieces of 
the same size. There are still a few 
of those machines in large bakeries, 
and with care they give moderately 
good results. There are now, how- 
ever, several types of loaf-dividing machines on the market. The general 
principle governing all of them is that the dough is measured rather than 
weighed. The dough by means of plungers is pressed into receptacles, a 
given thickness of dough presumably weighing a given amount. In practice 
these machines turn out pieces extremely near the proper weight, and with 
almost perfect regularity. For dough of any stiffness the length of aper- 
ture for the measurement of the dough is determined by a screw gauge, but 
if the stiffness of the dough is altered it may be necessary to alter the gauge 
slightly to suit the alteration in the gravity of the dough. These slight 
alterations can be adjusted very easily, even when the machine is working. 
The same sort of adjustments must be made when the weights of the loaves 
are altered. In all these machines the dough is measured — not weighed — 
in a box or cylinder, and ejected from it by a plunger which fits quite close 
but free. In some types of machines the cylinders are comparatively long 
and with a diameter about 4 in.; in others the cylinders are larger in dia- 
meter — about 6 in. — and of course much shallower. In the original divider 




Fig. 220.— Hawkins Rotary Dough-making Macliine 



326 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

a receptacle at the bottom of the hopper is filled with dough by the weight 
The Original of the latter only; then a knife-edged plate cuts off the 
Dough-divider. (Jough in the hopper, and an accurately fitted plunger pushes 
the dough in the receptacle underneath into the measuring boxes, the 
plungers of which recede before the dough until they reach the stops, 
which are fixed in position by the g^uge already referred to. The frame 
containing the boxes with the measured dough then descends, and a cross 
arm pushes the plungers until they are flush wath the inner ends of the 
boxes, the pieces of dough being dropped on to a band which conveys them 
on to or along the table. Once the machine is nicely adjusted, the pieces of 
dough are very uniform in weight. One difficulty that sometimes arises is 
when any slight obstruction occurs in the measuring boxes. The plunger 
is so accurately fitted that a very little piece of hard dough is sufficient to 
cause it to stick, with the result that the loaves from that particular box 
may be more or less short weight. The plunger which first clears the recep- 
tacle under the hopper is not fixed to any rigid arm of the machine, but the 
pressure to which the dough is subjected is determined by a weight, or 
rather a box of weights, hung on the lever that works the plunger referred 
to. The idea is to subject the dough to sufficient pressure only to fill the 
measuring boxes and no more, that the dough may not be " felled " or 
damaged in any way by excessive pressure. 

In another type of machine the box under the hopper is cleared and 
the measuring boxes filled by a conveyor screw which pushes the dough 
Other Types forward; but here again the screw conveyor does not exert a 
of Dividers, ^jgid pressure, but only sufficient to fill the boxes, because it is 
fixed at the end on two spiral springs, and according as these are adjusted 
to be very open or close, the pressure they exert will be very gentle or very 
hard. In one type of machine the measuring boxes are in the circumfer- 
ence of an iron drum, the pressure on the dough to fill these boxes being 
exerted by rollers. In some machines the boxes are necessarily kept clean 
only, and to prevent rust have to be thoroughly cleaned and greased after 
each time of using; in other machines an automatic lubricating arrange- 
ment is attached to the measuring boxes, so that a thin film of oil is spread 
over them to prevent the dough sticking. In spite of all expedients there 
is some difficulty in getting these machines to work satisfactorily with very 
soft doughs. The machines have been accused of " felling " the dough, and 
it does seem to require more time to recover after being through such a 
machine than when handed up in the ordinary way. But although the 
writer has had practical experience of several types of dividers he has not 
found any permanent injury to the dough from their use, although mistakes 
in adjustment of the weights, or of the pressure springs, sometimes produce 
excessive pressure that makes the dough feel dead for a time; but a reduc- 
tion in weight to actual needs, or opening the springs, is sufficient in either 
case to effect the desired remedy. 

The latest development in connection with dividers is to attach directly 
to them an arrangement for " handing up " the loaves and delivering them 




UNITED" BUN-MOULDER 




CALLOW-BAKER DOUCjH-MOULDlN,. MACHINE 

MOULDING MACHINERY 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 



327 



quite round, ready for boarding or for the prover. This hander-up con- 
sists essentially of a wheel with a deep groove in which the Handing-up 
pieces of dough run, pressing against a band of felt or other Machines, 
material. When dividers were first adopted the accepted idea was that a 
short time should elapse after the loaves were divided, before they should 
be "handed up"; but now it is recognized that the time to allow for recovery 
is between the handing up and the moulding stage. In some systems the 
"handing-up " machine is quite distinct from the divider, but the latter deli- 
yers its pieces directly on to the former. One of the first and best-known 

type of handing-up and 
moulding machines is 
shown in fig. 221, This 
consists of a wide metal 
corrugated cone which 
revolves, and there are 
fixed above it„„j:„„ 

Handing-up 
it metal and Moulding 

channels or Machine. 

troughs held in position 
by springs, the tension of 
which can be increased or 
relieved as desired. The 
pieces of dough enter 
these channels near the 
outside edge of the cone, 
and as the latter revolves 
they are carried forward 
and upward by the aid of 
the corrugations and the 
surface of the covers, and 
in the passage are ren- 
dered round and smooth. As the covers are not rigid, but yield on 
account of the springs to the pressure of the dough underneath, that dough 
is not unduly pressed nor its skin torn. In the early machines of this 
type each size of loaf had to have a special size of cover adjusted for its 
moulding, the separate covers being taken off or fixed on the machine as 
needed. Pointon's new flexible moulder has no large cone table, but instead 
has a wide rubber and canvas band whose parallel axes are inclined from 
the horizontal. The moulding troughs are arranged on this band diagonally, 
and by shifting the angle of the band, or opening or closing the trough by 
hand wheels, small and large pieces can be moulded without the use of 
different troughs. Callow-Baker 

Another type of moulding machine that has proved its Moulding 
eflBciency practically is that known as the Callow-Baker ^^ *"*' 
moulding machine. In this machine, contact of the dough with a metal 
surface is carefully avoided, felt and wood being the moulding surfaces, 




Fig. 221.— Bread-moulding Machine 



328 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



so as to prevent cooling as much as possible. By an ingenious conjunction 
of the movements of felt-covered rollers of large diameter, of a conveyor 
band, and the intermittent but gentle impact of a long wooden beam, the 
pieces of dough are conveyed along a hollowed-out channel, and are finished 
as nearly the same shape as if they had been handed up or moulded by 
hand. This machine (see Plate Moulding Machinery) can be adapted by 
a slight alteration of the parts to mould loaves of a round shape or long 
loaves to be baked in tins. In both types of moulders described, the 
texture of the bread is more uniform than is generally obtained by hand 
work. 

A machine specially intended for moulding tin or long loaves is shown 




Fig. 222.— American Moulder 



Moulding 
Machine 
for Long 
Tin Loaves 

receive it. 



in sectional elevation in fig. 222. In this machine the piece of dough is 
first conveyed between series of rollers and drawn out into a 
long band of dough of uniform thickness; then as it is carried 
forward in the machine, this band is rolled up quite gently but 
firmly, and delivered directly into the tin placed in position to 
This machine is more common in America than in Britain, but 
the writer has had some experience of its work, and can vouch for its efl5- 
ciency as a moulder of soft dough, producing loaves of quite remarkable 
evenness of texture. One of the newest moulding machines, either for rolls 
The " United " ^^ large bread of round shape, is called the " United ". (See 
Moulding Plate Moulding Machinery.) The essential parts in this 

ac ine. machine are a broad band the full width of the machine 

moving continuously in one direction, and a cover consisting of straight, 
deep, semicircular channels. The pieces of dough enter by holes in the 
top of the cover, and are carried along the channels by the forward motion 




< 
a, 

O 
z 

< 
< 

CQ 

U 

< 

o 

H 

< 

H 

LU 
-J 
Du 
iS 

o 
o 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 329 

of the band and the lateral rotary motion of the whole cover, which joint 
motions mould the pieces into a round shape and deliver them at the end of 
the machine. The moulding surfaces of this machine are either felt or 
wood, to prevent undue cooling of the dough. The amount of pressure 
to which the dough is to be subjected can be properly adjusted by rais- 
ing or lowering the cover, and the same adjustment can be easily made 
to suit the different sizes of pieces to be moulded. The writer has had no 
practical experience with this machine, but is informed by those who have 
that it produces excellent results in the matter of fineness of skin, as well 
as of evenness of texture. 

The ideal of the factory baker and of the bakery engineer is to produce 
a combination of machines that will make bread almost without any 
handling of the dough. The series of mechanical contrivances has Room for 
not yet been provided, although one diflficulty after another has Indention, 
within recent years been overcome. Something is still needed in place of 
the very oldfashioned method of tipping dough into a wooden truck, allow- 
ing it to prove there, then cutting it out into small pieces at a time, and lift- 
ing it by hand into the hopper of a dividing machine. Some improvement 
is also needed towards making the setting of the bread in the oven more of 
a mechanical operation, and improvements are needed in appliances for 
drawing the bread and conveying it to the packing store, although some- 
thing has already been done in the latter direction. But from the time the 
dough is placed in the hopper of the divider until it is arranged on the 
" setters " to prove for the oven, the process of breadmaking may now be 
considered as practically automatic. There are two distinct 
systems now in commercial operation — that of Messrs. plants: Werner, 
Werner, Pfleiderer, & Perkins, Limited, and that of Messrs. p^"^®"",^^' * 
Jos. Baker & Sons, Limited. The former employ either the 
Universal or Viennara type of dough-mixer, the flour previously weighed 
and sifted, and the water measured and attemperated in the special appli- 
ances for the purpose. The dough is kept in trucks till it is ready, and is 
then passed in pieces into the divider; from this it is divided without hand- 
ling on to the " hander-up " and then to the prover, which is a large enclo- 
sure with hanging cloth-lined trays that are carried very slowly and with 
an intermittent motion upwards and downwards through the prover until 
they reach the aperture on the opposite side, at which they are automati- 
cally turned on to a band by which they are conveyed to the moulder; after 
moulding, the loaves are placed on the "setters" to prove. All the machines 
working thus together have to be speeded so that the loaves pass along in a 
continuous stream without congestion. In the prover the shelves are cloth- 
lined, so that no dusting is needed to prevent the loaves from sticking. 
At an ordinary bakehouse temperature the loaves can remain long enough 
in the prover to mature properly, but there are many bakeries in which the 
temperature is too low to attain this without artificial heat. As the prover 
is entirely closed in, and is therefore free from draughts, the upper parts of 
the loaves, although uncovered, do not readily skin, even if the air is com- 

VoL. II. 102 



330 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

paratively dry, or only moist by the slight exhalation of vapour from the 
loaves themselves. But when extra heat is needed it cannot be obtained by 
the use of naked steam, because that, if present in any appreciable quantity, 
would make the loaves stick to the cloths, and would otherwise damp these 
and render them clammy. But there is no reason why these provers should 
not be fitted with some form of water or steam radiators, so that, should 
occasion arise, their atmosphere may be raised to and kept at any desired 
temperature. The intermittent movement of the shelves of the prover is 
to allow time for each shelf to be filled with loaves while opposite the 
long narrow opening that serves for this purpose. This type of prover 
(see the Plate) is high, and rises like a great oblong box from the floor 
level. 

The other system of automatic breadmaking referred to is worked on 
a different principle (see Plate). After the dough is made in the usual way 
Joseph Baker ^^^ allowed to prove, it is passed on to the divider, to which 
& Sons' Auto- is attached a " bander up" of the grooved-wheel pattern. The 
matic ant. Joaves leave this latter machine as round balls, and are 
dropped through four small chutes into the boxes of the prover, which 
move along underneath slowly, but in unity with the speed of the moulder. 
The prover in this system is quite unlike the other described. It consists 
of a long wide box suspended from the ceiling of the bakery, or in other 
convenient situation. The internal parts consist of two broad bands, the 
top one fitted with square open boxes or cups fixed at regular distances 
apart, and with a motion away from the "hander up". The cups contain- 
ing the loaves are conveyed very slowly along the top of the prover, and 
when they reach the end of the pulley carrying the conveyor they are 
turned upside down, the loaves then resting on the lower band with the 
cups on top of them, and in this condition are carried forward, and by an 
ingenious device are dropped one at a time on to the Callow-Baker mould- 
ing machine, and are moulded and placed on the setters, ready for the oven 
after a little proof. This prover can be maintained at any desired tempera- 
ture, but it is claimed by the patentees that on account of its being fixed 
near the ceiling of the bakery it is in the region of the warmest atmos- 
phere, and therefore needs little attention or artificial warming. 

Reference has been made to the need for some oven-loading appliances. 
The writer is aware of only one such contrivance, made by Messrs. Cox ' & 
Oven -loading Son (see Plate). This appliance is adapted for tin bread. 
Conveyors. and is in use in a large Manchester bakery. A frame with 
apertures, each to hold one pan, is suspended from chains, and by an over- 
head rail the frame and full pans can be conveyed above the drawplate 
of the oven and deposited on it. The chains are detached and the frame 
left on the plate while the bread is baking. When the batch is ready the 
chains are again fixed to the overhead trolley and the whole batch carried 
at once to the cooling and packing room to be emptied. The whole opera- 
tion of loading or unloading a plate occupies only a few minutes, and as 
the pans are equidistant from each other the baking is very uniform. 




PROVER DELIVERING INTO CALLOW-BAKER DOUGH-MOULDING MACHINE 




DIVIDER AND HANDER-UP 



AUTOMATIC BREAD-MAKING PLANT 
(Joseph Baker & Sons, Ltd.) 



MACHINERY IN THE BAKERY 331 

This arrangement is evidently not suitable for crusty bread, for which 
no automatic loading appliances have yet been designed. 

The writer is aware of only two kinds of conveyors that have yet been 
adapted for conveying from the oven mouth to the bread room. One of 
these is in Feaist's Bakery in London, the other at the Conveyors for 
Apostolof Bakery, also in London. At the former the Unloading Ovens, 
loaves as they come from the oven are packed on flat boards — the same 
number on each board — and these are placed on hanging shelves of a chain 
conveyor in continuous motion, which carries them directly to the packing 
room, where an attendant transfers them at once to racks ready to be 
packed in the vans. The other form referred to is an ordinary band 
conveyor in a casing with sides, and running near the ceiling. The end 
of this long conveyor reaches near the ovens, and can be lowered to any 
convenient height to receive the loaves as they come from the oven. They 
are removed from the plate on to a large table, then simply placed on 
the conveyor by hand and carried a considerable distance away to the 
bread room. This conveyor is very efficient. It reduces the labour in the 
bakery and saves space. The adoption of conveyors of some kind for 
carrying both bread and tins of confectionery from the front of the oven 
to a more convenient packing place is one of the developments likely to 
be witnessed in the trade in the near future; and now that electric motors 
are coming into such general use, even in small bakeries, there is no reason 
why a conveyor should not be a necessary appliance in every factory 
claiming to be up to date. 



332 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



CHAPTER LII 

CONFECTIONEEY MACHINEEY 



The machinery applicable to confectionery manufacture is as a rule 
smaller and lighter than that for bread. In large factories, such machines 
Confectionery as those for making fondant, grinding almonds, or even 
Machines. grinding sugar may be profitably installed; but as confec- 
tionery, except cake-making, is still, and likely to remain, unsuitable for 
factory operations, the machine plants in 
use will continue to be comparatively 
simple. Sponge-beating machines are in- 
valuable, and can be used for sponge 
goods or for beating whites of eggs for 
meringue, &c. There are four distinct 
types of those machines on the market, 
Sponge- ^'^y *^^ which is quite satisfac- 
beating tory if handled properly. The 
Morton machine has series of 
oval grids which pass through each other. 
It has a circular bottom, generally of 
copper, and is jacketed so that it can be 
heated up with warm water. The Griffith 
machine has two sets of vertical grids. 
The Geddes machine has a frame consist- 
ing of circular ends with steel bands 
stretched between them, alternate sets 
working in opposite directions. The 
Cadisch whisk (fig. 223) is intended to 
work exactly like hand beating. It con- 
sists of a copper pan fixed in a ring. The 
whisk is a long wooden handle with a 

Cadisch bulbed head of wire. The handle of the whisk is fixed with a 
Whisk, pin to a movable support, and the top end turns freely in a ring 
connected with a spindle which has a small flywheel at its top. Cone 
gearing allows for using either slow or quick speed as desired. Some 
confectioners are specially fond of this machine, but the writer cannot see 
that it is more effective than the others, and it certainly needs a good 
deal more repairs for broken shafts, and more care in adjusting to get 
good work from it. Some sponge machines can be fitted with arms for 
cake-beating. Although great care has to be used in working with these 
different sets of arms alternately, to prevent the sponge mixtures, say, from 
being spoiled with the fat from previous cake-mixing, yet for anyone with 
only a small trade the double-purpose machine is a boon, saving space and 
expense, and giving all the efficiency desired. 




Fig. 223.— Cadisch Whislc 



CONFECTIONERY MACHINERY 



333 



Of cake-making machines there is an endless variety. Like dough- 
making machines, those that are simplest in construction are most satis- 
factory. Although, as already stated, it is a convenience cake-making 
when the whisk and the cake -batter blades can be used Machines, 
alternately in one machine, it is much more satisfactory, when there is much 
work to do, if the cake-beating blades are fixtures. Fixed blades are more 
difficult to clean, but movable blades are always in danger of getting out of 
order through faulty adjustment. Whatever kind of cake machine is used 
it ought to have two-speed gearing — a slow speed to start the mixing 
of butter and sugar, &c., a quick speed to beat them to a cream, and a slow 




:*«. 224.— Morton's Small Cake Plant with Motor 



speed again to mix the flour, fruit, &c. Some cake-bakers are afraid to 
mix the flour by machine, but prefer to take out the batter and mix the 
flour by hand. Much better texture is, however, obtained by finishing 
the mixture in the machine. 

In addition to the usual run of machines there is one little machine, an 
illustration of which is given on the plate at page 432, vol. i, that is most 
useful to the confectioner. This is a disk cutting, grating, y^imond Cutting 
and slicing machine. The cost of a small one is about 35s. Grating, and 
With this four disks are provided. These will prepare ''^^"^ ^^ ^"^' 
almond meal, shred almonds, chop almonds, or slice peel for the inside or 
outside of cakes, slice vegetables, make cake or bread crumbs, &c. &c. A 
small cake plant, as shown in fig. 224, is efficient for doing a very consider- 
able shop trade, and quite as much as in the bread-department machinery, 
for the harder work of the confectioner increases his capacity many fold. 



334 BAKERY FIXTUEES AND FITTINGS 

CHAPTER LIII 

POWER— GAS AND OIL ENGINES 

Machinery in the confectionery side of a bakery may be a great 
labour-saving agency even when it is driven by hand; but in a bread 
bakery, although hand machines may be cleaner than hand work, and 
perhaps even less exhausting, the scope of such machines is very 
limited, and the saving they effect cannot be very great. Happily, power 
is not very expensive, either with regard to the machine for its applica- 
Gas Engines tion or the material that supplies it. Gas engines are very 
m the Bakery, suitable for bakers' use, because they can be obtained small 
enough to be cheap, and with just sufficient power for the baker's 
requirements; because they require little skill to work them; because 
the construction is so simple that there is little danger of breakdowns 
and much cost for repairs; and because they can be started quickly and 
stopped immediately the work' is done, and at a very small cost for 
gas or oil, with practically no waste. For a two-sack machine of any 
type a gas engine of four horse-power nominal is sufficient to supply 
the necessary power, while one of the drum machines of the same 
capacity may obtain sufficient power from an engine of two horse-power. 
The gas supply to the engine is received from the main into a cast-iron 
casing, with a sheet of indiarubber for the back. When this casing, or 
bag as it is called, is full of gas, the distended rubber automatically 
shuts off the gas supply, and admits gas again when some is drawn 
into the engine. The piston of the engine, to which uniform motion is 
conveyed by the connection with the flywheel, acts as a pump at the 
first part of its outward stroke, drawing in to the cylinder a mixture 
of gas and air; then, as the flywheel pushes the piston back it com- 
presses the gas mixture in the cylinder, and a small quantity of gas passes 
through a small aperture into what is called the combustion tube. This 
is a porcelain tube surrounded by the flame of a Bunsen burner and 
maintained at a bright-red heat. As soon as some of the gas enters this 
ignition tube it is ignited and explodes the whole of the compressed gas 
and air in the cylinder, thus exerting a great pressure on the piston, 
which in turn is conveyed to the flywheel, which acts as a sort of 
reservoir of energy, paying it out as work again at a uniform rate. As 
the explosions in the cylinder produce a great deal of heat, it is jacketed 
and connected with a large cistern of cold water, which provides for the 
circulation of cold water round the cylinder while it is working. 

The cycle of actions in producing the power in a gas or oil engine 
are: (1) the piston draws in a mixture of gas and air at its outward 
Action of the stroke; (2) the return stroke compresses this mixture with a 
Gas Engine, pressure of about 40 atmospheres; (3) the mixture is ignited 
and explodes, and the impact projects the piston forward; (4) the return 



POWER—GAS AND OIL ENGINES 335 

stroke of the piston removes the residual products of the explosion from the 
cylinder. All these movements are properly regulated by valves, which 
are geared to work automatically. The governor of the engine, which 
prevents its reaching too high a speed, consists of two balls with a weight 
on top. The rod carrying these balls has a collar on it fitted in a sleeve, 
which is connected with a small rod carrying a crosspiece which acts as 
a bridge between the gas supply and the valve allowing entrance to the 
cylinder. This governor does not regulate the gas supply, but cuts it 
otf completely whenever the engine runs at a speed higher than that 
for which the governor has been set. When the speed becomes too 
high the balls of the governor are thrown outwards and the small cross- 
piece is lifted up, so that the gas valve and the opening to the cylinder 
are not connected, and no gas enters until the speed is reduced to the 
normal again and a fresh charge of gas is admitted. 

In the instructions for working the engine a position is shown to 
which the pointer of the gas tap has to be turned to admit a larger 
charge of gas than is required after the engine is running; but as all 
gas is not of the same composition, the best explosive mixture does not 
always require quite the same proportion of gas to air, and in conse- 
quence the point on the disk to show where the pointer should be, has 
sometimes to be varied from that shown by the makers of the engine. 
This, however, must be determined first by experiment, and Working of the 
may vary considerably for different localities. The engine is ®^^ Engine, 
started with the exhaust partly open. When the engine is to be started, 
care should be taken that the lubricators are all in order and filled with 
oil. The lever to open the exhaust should be pushed towards the fly- 
wheel when the machine is being stopped at last time of working. The 
ignition tube has to be lighted about ten minutes before it is required. 
The gas supply is turned on, the flywheel turned once backwards, then 
forward as many times as necessary until the first explosion takes place. 
The connecting piece between the gas valve and the valve to the cylinder 
has to be fixed in position, so that a supply of gas is admitted at every 
stroke until speed is obtained; then the governors automatically regulate 
it afterwards. When about to stop the engine, see that the driving belt 
is on the loose pulley; turn otf the gas supply, and push forward the 
lever opening the exhaust. With care and very little practice, gas engines 
can be made to run very safely and regularly. 

Oil engines are serviceable for power supply in bakeries in country 
districts where there is no gas supply, or where the gas is very dear, and 
they are quite efficient and economical. The sort of engines 
suitable for bakery use are those burning ordinary commer- 
cial petroleum and lamp oils. These oils are less dangerous in use than 
gasoline or light petroleum, as they do not give off inflammable gases until 
a temperature from 86° F. to 120° F. lias been reached. The explosive mix- 
ture in this case consists of the vapour of the oil mixed with a definite 
quantity of air. The method of utilizing the force of the explosion is 



336 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

not very different from the arrangement in a gas engine, but in oil 
engines an additional appliance is needed to produce the oil vapour 
from the liquid. In different types of engines the method of doing this 
varies considerably. In the Bray ton engine the gases are burned under 
pressure. It has two cylinders, one for the compression of the mixture, 
the other the working cylinder. In the course of the compressed air a 
space is formed in which are packed absorbent materials, such as hemp 
and felt, and a special pump is provided to keep them constantly soaked 
with the oil. The oil carried by the porous mass of felt is blown into 
foam by means of a jet of compressed air. In the passage through the 
felt the air becomes charged with a cloud of oil globules in a condition 
suitable for combustion in the cylinder of the engine. During the first 
third of the stroke the mixture of air and oil in an atomized condition 
is admitted to the working cylinder, and after the firing of the charge 
the piston is driven to the end of its stroke by the expansion of the 
gases. Exhaust of the waste products takes place throughout the return 
stroke, and as the Brayton engine is double-acting, a similar series of 
operations takes place on the other side of the piston. In nearly all 
types of oil engines the heating arrangements for firing the charge are 
quite different from those adopted for gas engines. In some cases an 
T ■ • M Vi fi electric spark is used, but as a rule the heat is supplied 
by the residual heat from the explosions in the cylinder 
keeping the igniter at a sufficiently high temperature, although it has 
to be heated up from outside sources at the start. 

In the Hornsby engine any commercial oil can be used. The base of 
the engine is made to serve for the oil supply. A special portable oil 
The Hornsby lamp at the end of the cylinder serves to heat the vaporizer 
Oil Engine, when starting the engine, and about ten minutes are required 
with the oil flame to produce the necessary temperature; then, when the 
engine is working, the residual heat keeps up the temperature and the 
lamp can be extinguished. The vaporizer is connected to the cylinder 
by a small pipe, through which the air in the cylinder compressed during 
the return stroke of the piston is driven; the chamber is thus filled with 
compressed air. Towards the end of the same stroke the exact quantity 
of oil required to form an explosive mixture is injected into the chamber 
by means of a pump. Rapid and complete vaporization of the oil takes 
place as soon as it is injected into the compressed air, and the mixture in 
contact with the heated walls of the chamber immediately explodes. 

The Crossley oil engine in appearance very much resembles the gas 
engine made by the same firm. It has, however, a special type of 
The Crossley vaporizer, which enables a combustible mixture of air and 
Oil Engine. q]\ vapour to be used instead of coal gas. The vaporizer 
consists of a chamber divided by vertical walls into four canals; through 
these a lamp flame passes to the chimney at top, whilst encircling the lamp 
chimney is a spiral passage through which a stream of air is forced. This 
heated air afterwards comes in contact with the oil, a portion of which is 




PRIESTMAN OIL ENGINE 




CROSSLEY HORIZONTAL GAS ENGINE 



POWER— GAS AND OIL ENGINES 



337 



entrained and carried over, and an explosive mixture enters the cylinder. 
There are about as many types of oil as of gas engines. When the men 
become familiar with their working they give little trouble, but they need 
more care and cleaning than gas engines. 

The following are the general prices for gas engines of small size of the 

best type: — 

1 horse-power nominal — about £44. 



2 




„ 48. 


3 




54. 


H 




„ 61. 


H 




68. 


H 




79. 


11 




89. 



Oil engines of the same power cost about £10 more for sizes up to 
3 horse-power, and about £20 more for the larger sizes. These prices 
are subject to discount of 10 per cent to 15 per cent. 



Vol. n 



103 



338 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

CHAPTER LIV 

ELECTRIC MOTORS 

In modern bakeries of small and moderate size the electrically-driven 
motor occupies a prominent position. In comparison with other methods 
Advantages of oi power supply, the following claims may be advanced 
Electrical Power, jj^ support of electrical machinery: — 

1. The space occupied by the motor (it being understood that only 
small machines are under consideration) is less than that occupied by 
other types of machines of equal power. 

2. They are accompanied by less dirt and noise. 

3. There is less power lost in friction in the machine, this gain being 
more pronounced the larger the machine. 

4. They can be started without any previous preparation, and stopped 
with similar ease. 

5. The speed is capable of easy regulation within the limits of the 
machine. 

Supposing that it is decided to lay down such plant, the choice of the 
particular type of machine is in the majority of cases determined by the 
nature of the current supply in the locality. The current may be direct 
(or continuous), or it may be alternating; and, if the latter, it may be avail- 
Considerations ^^^^ ^^ what is known as single-phase or polyphase form. 
Affecting Choice It is then necessary to ascertain first what variety of 
o ac ine. supply is obtainable, and also at what pressure such 

supply is maintained. Having acquired this information, the purchase 
of a suitable machine is the next point for consideration. The cost of 
the actual motor does not represent the total outlay by any means; account 
must be taken of the necessary auxiliary appliances and also of the cost 
of wiring. As regards the machine alone, continuous-current motors and 
single-phase alternating-current motors do not differ much in cost; but for 
any given power polyphase motors are cheaper than either of the above. 
The table on p. 339 shows the list prices (taken from a catalogue of a 
well-known firm) of continuous-current motors of such power as would be 
necessary for small establishments. In each case the price is that of the 
machine alone, the cost of starter, wiring, &c., not being included. This 
is dealt wdth later. From these prices a substantial discount could no 
doubt be obtained. They may be taken as an average quotation. Motors 
can be obtained at a lower figure; but a too rigid economy in prime outlay 
is not to be recommended. 

It will be seen from the table that the price of a machine of any 
given power rises rapidly with the reduction of stated speed, the slow- 
speed machine being altogether more massive than the high-speed. A 
high-speed machine could be used, reducing the speed by some form of 
gearing at some loss of power in the process. The smallest of the above 



ELECTRIC MOTORS 



339 



Prices of Continuous-current Motors 



Horse-power. 


Revolutions 
per Minute. 


Price (motor alone). 


3 
3 

3 

3i 
4 
5 
5 

7 
7 


1950 

400 

265 

1050 

480 

1550 

1050 

1400 

1000 


£ 8. d. 

17 5 
47 5 
53 5 
26 5 
47 5 
26 5 
33 15 
33 15 
41 5 



machines could be easily accommodated in a space 3 ft. square, and the 
largest in a space 4 ft. 6 in. square. The price of the Cost of Motors 
starter for the above would vary with the machine, depend- ^"'^ Starters, 
ing on the power and on the current taken; it would run from about 
£1, 10s. to £3, 5s. over the above range. A fairly good rule is to allow 
10s. per horse-power. In the case of alternating-current motors, although, 
as stated, the cost of the machine itself might be less, yet where a starter 
is required such starter would cost considerably more than that for a 
continuous-current motor. Allowance must be made, too, for the cost of 
wiring. This item in the case of the smallest motors would amount 
(exclusive of the cost of the starter) to about £3, 10s. to £4. With the 
larger sizes, taking heavier currents, heavier cable would be necessary, 
and this would increase the cost, but not by any means to an extent 
proportional to the power of the motor. The cost of wiring bears its 
largest ratio to the cost of the machine with small sizes. But in any 
case the particular circumstances must be known (situation of machine, 
length of run of cable required, &c.) to estimate this portion of the cost. 
As a guide to the size of the plant required in any particular size of Plant 
shop, the following table may be found useful. It gives the Needed, 
approximate power required for kneading machines of various capacities. 



Capacity. 


Approximate 
Horse-power. 


Capacity. 


Approximate 
Horse-power. 


1 sack 
1 „ 


3 


2 sacks 

3 „ 

4 „ 


4 
5-6 
6-7 



A small calculation will show how to estimate roughly the cost of 



340 



BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 



current supply. If the machine has its own voltmeter and ammeter, these 
readings can easily be taken. Then 

Volts X amperes x hours ^ ^^^^.^ ^^ ^^^^^ ^^.^^ 

Estimating from the known horse-power of the machine, 

1 horse-power for 1 hour = '746 Board of Trade Unit, 
and therefore '746 X H.P. x hours = Board of Trade Units. 

Knowing the cost per unit, the total cost can readily be estimated. 

Continuous-current motors may be of various types, according to the 

method of winding. If the same current traverses the armature and 

n. c mapfnet windings, the machine is known as a "series" motor 

Types of *^ » ' 

Continuous- (fig. 225); but if the main current traverses the armature, 
current Motors. ^^^^ ^ branch circuit is led off to the magnets, the machine 
is a " shunt " motor (fig. 226). A third type combining these two gives 





Fig. 225.— Diagram of Series 
Winding 



Fig. 226.— Diagram of Shunt 
Winding 



the "compound motor". Each has its advantages and disadvantages, 
rendering it adaptable to some kinds of work and inadvisable for others. 
For instance, the shunt motor is best when a constant speed is required 
at different loads; and the series motor where great starting power is 
required, as in crane motors, &c. For bakery purposes the shunt motor 
would seem to be the better adapted on the whole. 

The position to be occupied by the motor should then be chosen. This 
should be in a clean, dry place as free as possible from dust. This latter 
qualification may be difficult of attainment, but can be 
provided for by adopting a machine of the " enclosed " 
type, in which the running parts of the machine are, as the name implies, 
defended to a very great extent from the intrusion of small particles. The 
foundation of the machine should be quite level, and it may either be 
bolted down or mounted on slide rails. If, as is most probable, the 
power is to be transmitted by belting to a shaft, the adoption of slide 
rails allows for a slight alteration of the position, if necessary, to get the 
belt running to the best advantage. 



Position of Motor. 




O 

o 



y 
u 

-J 
03 



LU 
> 

Q 

CO 

z 

u 
< 



< 

LU 

cn 

CD 

Q 
z 

< 

LU 
< 



ELECTRIC MOTOES 



341 



Before starting the machine, see that the brushes are bearing properly 
on the commutator. Most machines are now fitted with carbon brushes, 
and several will probably be found in each holder. The brushes starting 
in the several holders should be arranged so that between them *^^ Motor, 
they bear on the whole width of the commutator. If this is not so, after 
running for some time those parts on which the brushes bear tend to 
become ploughed out, while the intervening surface remains intact; thus 
giving rise to grooves in the commutator, and leading to trouble later on. 
The brushes in the several holders should therefore not be in line with 
one another around the circumference of the commutator. Their bearing 
on the commutator surface can be rendered certain by hand-turning the 
machine with a piece of fine 
glass paper (not emery) beneath 
the brushes so that the glass 
paper may render them of the 
same slight curvature as the 
surface on which they bear. 
When satisfactory, remove all 
dust with brush and bellows. 
See that the oil wells are filled. 
The machine is then ready to 
start. The main switch of the 
machine is first closed, and the 
actual starting effected through 
some form of starting resist- 
ance. 

For a continuous - current 
machine a typical starter is 
shown in fig. 227. It is to all 

intents and purposes a set of coils of heavy wire in series with the 
armature of the machine, which are at first in circuit and are then 
gradually cut out. The main switch being closed, the starting lever is 
moved on to the first stud. At this point a large current traverses the 
armature of the machine, and it commences to revolve. For the time 
being the machine may be regarded as a " generator ", i.e. a machine to 
which motion is supplied resulting in the production of current. The 
current set up by this generator action tends to flow in the opposite 
direction to that sent into the machine from the mains, and so diminishes 
the current in the circuit. The voltage set up by the machine, in so far 
as it acts as a generator, opposes the voltage applied to the machine from 
elsewhere; and this opposing voltage is referred to as the "back electro- 
motive force" or "back E.M.F." of the machine. Hence the current is 
diminished; the machine, in fact, could not stand for any length of time 
the current which passes through it at the instant of starting before the 
rise of the back E.M.F. This opposing force must be given a short time 
to develop as the machine speeds up, and hence the starting lever must be 




Fig. 227.— Motor Starter 



342 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

moved very slowly stud by stud to its final position. The motion must at 
any rate be very slow at first, while as the machine runs up to speed the 
later studs may be passed at a somewhat quicker rate. On reaching the 
last stud the lever is, as a rule, held in position by a small electromagnet. 
If a failure of current occurs from any cause, the electromagnet is demag- 
netized, and the starting lever flies back to its original position by the 
Adjustment action of a coiled spring. The motor being started, the speed 
of Speed. can be adjusted as required by means of the regulating resist- 
ance, which would be found on the starting panel. This regulator consists 
of a series of coils by which the current passing through the field magnets 
can be increased or decreased as desired. With a shunt motor a decrease 
of the field current increases the speed, and vice versa. 

A motor, when newly put into work, will require some attention at 
first until it settles down. Small details must be looked after, and the 
Sparking at machine may develop minor faults. Of the smaller faults a 
the Brushes, machine may exhibit, perhaps the most prominent is that 
of sparking at the brushes. This can, as a rule, be reduced to a very 
small amount, if not abolished entirely, the degree of success depending 
on the cause from which the sparking arises. A very frequent cause is 
a wrong adjustment of the brushes, either as regards their position on 
the circumference of the commutator or as regards the contact they make 
with the commutator bars. If from the first cause, the obvious remedy 
will be to alter slightly the position of the brush rocker. This can be 
done while the machine is running. It will be found that on moving 
the brushes round the commutator in one direction the sparking increases, 
and in the other direction it decreases. A position can be found, if this 
is the most conspicuous cause of sparking, where it can be reduced to 
a minimum. The angle through which the brushes are moved must not 
in any case be very large, as a shifting of the brushes through an angle 
equal to the pole pitch has the effect of reversing the direction of rotation 
of the machine. This angle is found by dividing 360 degrees by the 
number of pole pieces on the field magnets. It may happen that any 
noticeable amount of sparking only occurs at one set of brushes, and 
that on moving the brush rocker sparking at this set ceases and appears 
at another set. In this case it is not so much that the rocker position 
is wrong, as that the relative position of the brushes is incorrect, i.e. 
the various sets are not separated by the correct angle. This can easily 
be detected by a simple measurement, though in modern machines fitted 
with carbon brushes the construction of the machine is such as almost 
to preclude its possibility. The brushes in any one holder should, how- 
ever, be adjusted so as to bear on the commutator in line with one another, 
error in this respect leading to sparking at the brush which is out of 
line when the remainder are running smoothly. If an alteration, either 
of the rocker, one set of brushes, or an individual brush, does not reduce 
the sparking, another cause must be sought. Roughness, either of the 
commutator or brush surface, will produce it, as such a cause means 



ELECTRIC MOTORS 343 

constant bad contact of brushes and commutator. Brushes should be 
ground in when fitted to the machine as mentioned above, and examined 
periodically to see if they continue to bear properly. Carbon brushes 
should not be allowed to wear down at one edge and not bear on the 
whole surface. Roughness of the commutator may be caused by the 
ploughing action of the brushes causing grooves to appear after running 
a considerable time; or by the fact of the insulating material between 
the bars being harder than the bars themselves, and thus being left 
projecting when the copper is worn down. In either case sparking will 
occur, and will be accompanied with some amount of rattling of the 
brushes. The grooving action may be avoided by the means mentioned 
above. The only cure for projecting insulation, if it occurs, is to take 
a fine cut off" the commutator. This is a matter, however, which will 
entail outside assistance and cannot be cured on the spot. Various other 
causes may give rise to sparking, but they are as a rule not of such a 
nature as to be capable of simple or immediate remedy. 

Another trouble which may arise is a refusal of the motor to start 
when apparently all is in order. The absence of a necessary fuse may 
explain it, but this would be readily detected on examination. Failure to 
The source of failure may be a breakdown at the local generat- Start, 
ing station, and it may be necessary for a time to cut out a certain district 
(a proceeding in which supply companies sometimes indulge). Against 
this one is powerless, and can only await a resumption of supply. A 
breakdown in the plant itself is frequently diflicult to locate, and not 
always capable of rapid remedy even when located. A wrong connection 
may account for it; this would be detected at the first attempted run, 
and would not occur afterwards unless the machine had been tampered 
with. The various terminals of the machine being determined, care should 
be taken that they are properly connected to the particular type of starter 
in use, and also that the plant is properly connected to the positive and 
negative t-.minals of the supply mains. The terminals of a starter are 
usually marked L, F, A (line, field, and armature, respectively); the con- 
nections should then be made to the starter in accordance with the 
marks. Where not marked, the " field " terminal, at any rate, may be 
identified by its smaller size or from its being fitted with a smaller 
" thimble " for the cable. If the machine has previously run satisfactorily, 
this cause is practically ruled out. A break may have occurred in one of 
the coils of the starter. This can be determined by carefully moving the 
lever over the first few studs, when, if one of these is broken, the motor 
will start after passing the broken coil. Great care should be taken in 
making this trial, and it should never be continued beyond the first 
two or three studs, although it would detect the fault beyond this. If 
the broken coil is one of the later ones and the process is continued, the 
motor on starting would take a very large cun-ent, and this sudden rush 
might cause a bum-out of the armature. If a break in one of the later 
coils is suspected the starter might be examined, and if such a break is 



344 BAKERY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 

found it may be short-circuited by a short piece of stout wire similar 
to that of the other coils. A wrong connection of the field coils, so 
that they oppose each other in action, may occur. This can be detected 
by testing the poles of the machine with a compass needle, and, if in 
error, altering the connections to suit the particular case. A break in 
the internal arrangement of the machine would, of course, entail a refusal 
to start, and this is a matter for special treatment and cannot be remedied 
on the spot. 

No part of the machine should at any time during several hours' run 
become more than just hand- warm. It is as well to try various parts 
Excessive occasionally to see if this is so. If heating occurs, it is an 
Heating of advantage to know which part heats first, as the other parts 
Parts. ^£ ^j^^ machine are liable to get hot by mere conduction. 

Heating of coils almost always means excessive current through them, 
and this should be at once decreased. For instance, in a shunt motor 
whose field coils heat, the shunt current is too great and can be reduced 
by the regulator, entailing an alteration of speed. A coil remaining per- 
fectly cold while the others are warm is short-circuited, and this fault 
may be at the same time the cause of the heating of the remaining coils. 

Trouble will at times arise even with the best-managed plant, but 
with care no serious difficulty should arise within a reasonable life of 
the machine. Wherever a current supply is available, electric motors 
represent for bakery purposes without doubt the most desirable form of 
power supply on hygienic as well as other grounds, and the installation 
of such plant cannot fail to prove its value within a comparatively short 
period. 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 




UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



TX 
763 

K57 



BioMe<i 



Kirkland, John 

The modem baker, 
confectioner and caterer 



iCO 



ECT) 



•CD 



CO 




^1 I M. 










THE MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER AND CATERER 




J^-' 



MOULDED MARZIPAN FLOWERS 



THE 

MODERN BAKER 

CONFECTIONER 
AND CATERER 



A PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORK 
FOR THE BAKING AND ALLIED TRADES 



EDITED BY 



JOHN KIRKLAND 

LECTURER AND TEACHER OF BREAD- MAKING NATIONAL 
BAKERY SCHOOL BOROUGH POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE LONDON 



WITH CONTRIBUTIONS FROM LEADING 
SPECIALISTS AND TRADE EXPERTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. Ill 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

THIRTY-FOUR SOUTHAMPTON STREET STRAND LONDON 



TX 

Y' 3 




CONTENTS 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. Ill 



FERMENTED BUNS AND CAKES 

Page 

Chapter LII. Fermented Buns {continued) - - . . . 309 

Dough Nuts : Frying Crullers — Greasy Dough Nuts — Snowballs. 

Chapter LIII. Babas and Savarins 310 

How Baba Dough is Lightened — Large Babas au Rhum — Method of Making Baba 
Dough — Toughening Process — Cause of Cakes sticking to Moulds — Soaking Babas — 
Method for Small Quantities — Small Babas au Rhum — Shapes of Small Sizes — 
Orange Babas — Large Savarins au Kirach — Small Savarins au Kirsch — Small Almond 
Savarins — Almond Cream Batons. 

Chapter LIV. Brioche and Kouglof 313 

Brioche Dough or Paste — Method of Mixing — Shapes of Small Brioches — Brioche 
Crown — Mode of Shaping — Brioche Sandwiches — Character of Brioche and its Uses 
— German Kouglof — Fermented Kouglof Dough — Unfermented Kouglof Dough — 
Method of Dough-making — Coffee Cake. 

CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 
Chapter LV. Scones 315 

Lightening Agents used in Old Time by Bakers, &c. — Aerating Agents used in 
Gingerbread — Soda and Tartaric Acid — Soda and Cream of Tartar — Substitutes for 
Cream of Tartar — Chemical Effects of Milk — Softening Effects of Buttermilk — 
Physical Effect of Butter in New Milk — Standard Proportion of Chemicals — Baking 
Powders — Self-raising Flour for Public Sale — Purpose of adding Rice Flour — Should 
Aerated Dough Stand before Baking? — Sultana Scones — Creaming Butter, &c., for 
Scones — Cream Scones — London Teashop Scones — Afternoon Tea Scones — Cream 
Sandwich Batcms— Filling for Cream Batons — Cream Filling for Scones — Small 
Wholemeal Scones. 

Chapter LVL Chemically Aerated Buns 320 

Raspberry Buns — Closing Raspberry Buns — Cocoanut Buns — Rice Buns — Coffee Buns 
— Cherry Buns — Orange Buns — Orange Peel Discs— Rock Cakes — Cheap Rocks — 
Cocoanut Bars — Lemon Buns — Almond Buns. 



vi CONTENTS 

Page 

Chapter LVII. Small Chemically Aerated Cakes - - - - 324 

Heart Cakes — Rich Heart Cakes — Small Lunch or Madeira Cakes — Queen or Wine 
Cakes — Tottenham Cake — Papering Sheets — Loch Katrine Cake — Spiced Crumb 
Mixture — Royal Icing — Small Ginger Cakes — Cool Oven for Syrup Mixtures — Ginger 
Batons — Small Honey Cakes — Finishing Honey Cakes. 

ICINGS AND SYRUPS 
Chapter LVIII. The Preparation and Use of Fondant - - - 328 

Utensils for making Fondant — Why Fondant is sometimes Tough — Use of Cream of 
Tartar in Fondant — Why Glucose is used in Fondant — Theory of Fondant-making — 
Recipe for Fondant — Danger of Lumps or Large Crystals — Straining Syrup for 
Fondant — Bad Colour and its Cause — Temperature for Fondant — Rubbing or Cream- 
ing Fondant — How to Test Finished Fondant — Testing Degrees of Sugar-boiling — 
Soft Ball Degree— Full Feather Degree — -Cooling Slab for Fondant — Uses for Spoiled 
Fondant — Why Fondant becomes Dull — Effects of Overheating — Temperature for 
Masking Fondant — Fondant for the Tops of Large Cakes — Soft-eating Fondant for 
Cakes — Colour for Fondant — Cheap Colours— Flavourings for Fondant — To prevent 
Waste — Suitable Colours and Flavours — Blending Colours — Mixing Cocoa with 
Fondant — Melting Cocoa at a Low Temperature — Stock Chocolate Fondant — Three 
Favourite Colours — Why Chocolate Fondant is frequently Dull — Draining Wires and 
Trays — Use for Fondant Drippings. 

Chapter LIX. Water Icing and Fruit Syrups ----- 334 

To prepare Water Icing— Cheap Water Icing — To prepare Simple Syrup — When 
Syrup is too Thick — Elder-flower SjTup — Bottling the Syrup to Keep — Corking and 
Sealing — Lemon Syrup — Zest-scraper — Lemon-squeezer — To Clarify Dirty Sugar. 



PASTES AND PASTRIES 
Chapter LX. Short Paste and Short Paste Tarts - - - . 336 

Warm and Cold Weather Methods — Why Paste is often Greasy — Short Paste should 
Rest — Rich Short Paste, No. 1 — Sweet Paste, No. 2— Cheap Paste, No. 3 — Common 
Paste, No. 4— German Dough or Paste, No. 5 — Open Jam Tarts — Notching Tarts — 
Plain and Double Notch — Why Jam Burns — To brighten Jam — Filling Tarts — 
Madeira Tarts: First Method— Madeira Tarts: Second Method— Vanilla Sugar — 
Cheap Madeira Tarts— Victoria Tarts— Frangipane—Cocoanut Tarts— Congress Tarts 
—Cheap Congress Tarts— Almond Tarts — Duchess Tarts. 

Chapter LXI. Puff Paste --------- 342 

Old Method of making Puff Paste— Best Flour for Puff Paste— Butter for Paste- 
Reason for using Lemon Juice or Cream of Tartar— Why Butter is Dried— Rich Puff 
Paste— Treatment of Salt Butter— Method of Turning Paste— To Keep from Skinning 
— Number of Turns Necessary— Three-quarter Paste— Scotch Method of Paste- 
making— Cause of Harsh, Dry Paste— Why Butter runs out— What draws Paste- 
Nature of Butter and Flour affects Paste— Use of Ice for Paste— Keeping Butter in 
Ice Water— Making Dough Overnight — Vol-au- vent —Use of Hot Wet Knife — 
Expedients to Keep Cases Straight— Paste Tartlets— Tartlets in Two Pieces— Special 
Tins for Tartlets— Petites Bo uchees— Patty Filling. 

Chapter LXII. Plain and Fancy Shop Pastries - - - - 346 

French Pastries— Puff-paste Cushions— Imperial Stars— Filling for Cushions— Turn- 
overs or Apple Puffs— Diamond Creams— Royal Batons— Vanilla Pastries— Sausage 



CONTENTS vii 

Page 
Rolls — Meat Pies or Patties — Coventries — Cream Horns or Cornucopias — Cream 
Rolls — Method of Cutting — Cream Slices — Mille-feuille — Cream Custards — Custard 
Filling — Preventing Curdling in Custard — Cheese Cakes — Cheese Curd or Filling — 
Rennet Curd — Almond Cheese Cakes— Scotch Cheese Cakes — Richmond Maids of 
Honour — Filling for Maids of Honour — Lemon Cheese Cakes — Lemon Curd — Bain- 
marie — Cheap Curd for Lemon Cheese Cakes — Pastry Fans — Frangipane Slices — 
Banbury Cakes — Banbury Meat or Filling — Eccles Cakes — Nelson Squares — Scottish 
Eccles Cakes — Large Maltese Pastries — Fran^pane Cake or Tart — Frushie or Open 
Tart. 

Chapter LXIII. Sponge Goods 355 

Old Recipe for Sponge Cakes — Dressing Moulds — Best Mixture for Dressing — Grade 
of Sugar for Sponges — Cause of Spots on Sponges — Best Flour for Sponges — Quantity 
from 1 lb. Mixing — Why Sponge Batter is Heated — Recipe for Sponge Cakes — Signs 
of Readiness in a Mixture — How to mix Flour in Sponge Batter — Filling the Frames 
— Recipe for Cheap Sponges — Balmorals and Rocks — Victoria Sandwiches — Chocolate 
Sandwiches — Orange Sandwiches — Coffee Sandwiches — Finishing and Flavouring 
Sandwiches— Sponge Drops — Sponge Biscuits — Leamington Sponges — Savoy Cakes — 
Why Copper Moulds are Best for Savoys — Tipsy Cake — Almond Sponge Cake — To 
Protect Light Cakes in a Hot Oven — Sponge Darioles — Sponge Madeleines — Masking 
Darioles — Sponge Rusks — Sponge Fingers — Savoy Finger Biscuits — Baking Fingers 
— Taking Savoy Fingers from Papers — Biscuits for Charlottes — Plump Savoy Fingers 
— Pearl Biscuits — How Light Mixtures are Spoiled by Pressure — Almond Sponge 
Fingers — Sponge Swiss Rolls — Cocoanut Roll — Cheap Swiss Roll — Factory Swiss Roll 
^Lemon Curd Roll — Cocoa Swiss Roll — Vanilla Cream in Swiss Roll — Substitute for 
Whipped Cream. 

Chapter LXIV. Gateau or Genoese Paste 364 

Heavy and Light Genoese Paste — Recipe for Gateau Paste, No. 1 — Hoops for 
Gateaux — Another Genoese Recipe, No. 2 — To Keep Sheets of Genoese — No. 3 
Genoese Recipe — Genoese Recipe No. 4, for Small Fancies — Ground Almonds in 
Genoese — Cheap Genoese Sheet. 

Chapter LXV. Fancy Tartlets - - 366 

Victoria Tartlets — Cocoanut Tartlets — Maltese Pastries — Kopje Tartlets — Etoile 
Tartlets — Lisbon Tartlets — Italian Batons — Apple Batons — Cherry Batons — Royal 
Tartlets — Conversation Tartlets — Rose Tartlets — Melbourne Tartlets — Balmoral 
Tartlets — Madeira Tartlets — Clifton Tartlets. 

Chapter LXVI. Rich Shop and Buffet Pastries - - - - 371 

Tricoloured Fancies — Jelly Rings — Viennese Pastries — Anglo-Swiss Cakes — Colonial 
Cakes — Vanilla Bateaux. 

Chapter LXVII. Meringue Pastries - 373 

Cold Meringue — Italian Meringue — Boiling Sugar for Meringue — Another Meringue 
Mixture — Fanchonette Pastries — Lemon Souffle — Marses — Marking Marses — Another 
Variety of Marse — Venice Bateaux — Use of Frangipane and Meringue — Cocoanut 
Fingers — Coffee and Chocolate Fingers — Mascots — Meringue Fancies — Rose Fancies 
— Meringue Pyramid — Methods of Masking with Jam — Meringue Peaches— Colouring 
Meringue Fruits — Boston Pastries — Cocoanut Pyramids — Neapolitan Pjrramids. 

Chapter LXVIII. Cocoanut and Almond Pastries - - - . 379 

Cocoanut Rocks — Madrid Rocks — Berlin Slices — Princess Fancies — Princess Finger 
Biscuits — Chemin de Fer — Bedford Bateaux — Coffee Squares — Chocolate Squares. 



viii CONTENTS 

Page 

Chapter LXIX. Bonnes Bouchees . 332 

Chocolate Bouchees — Citron Bouchees — Neapolitan Bouchees— Bouchees d'Orange 

Bouchees Macedoines — Bonnes Bouchees — Lemontines. 

Chapter LXX. Pulps and Butter Creams 384 

Preparation of Apricot Pulp — What makes Pulp Cloudy — Discoloured Pulp or Jelly 

—Butter Creams — Objection to Imitation Butter Creams — Butter Cream, No. 1 

Butter Cream, No. 2 — Butter Cream, No. 3 — Special Custard for Cream — Butter 
Cream, No. 4. 

Chapter LXXI. Genoese Pastries 385 

Venice Fingers— Egg Icing— Cherbourg Creams— Mixed Fruit Slices— Pommes de 
Terre— Almond Peaches — Colouring Peaches — Chocolate Rognona— Genoese Baskets 
— Neapolitans — Cream Baskets — Avondale Creams — Tricoloured Genoese Pastries — 
To Cut through Firm Fondant— Masked Genoese— Almond Cream Cakes— Finishing 
Pears— Leicester Squares— Pink Gateau Paste— To Marble Icing— Genoese Fancies 
— How to Cut Angelica — To Cut Gateau Paste with Cutter— Decorating Fancies — 
Thin Almond Paste over Fancies — Old-fashioned Method of Preparing Fancies — 
Lines and Jelly Decoration— Mocha Fancies— Coffee Cream Filling— Vanilla Cream 
Fingers — Vanilla-flavoured Cream— Maraschino Cakes— Chocolate Cream Fingers. 

Chapter LXXII, Petits Fours Glaces - - - - - - 391 

Petits Fours Glaces — General Methods of Finishing — Use of Petits Fours — Founda- 
tion of Petits Fours— Biscuit Petits Fours — Fillings for Biscuit Petits Fours— Marron 
Glace— Penny Biscuit Petits Fours— Butter Cream Petits Fours — Use of Butter 
Cream in Petits Fours— Use of Fancy-shaped Cutters — Rich Almond Paste Petits 
Fours — Boat-shaped Petits Fours Glaces. 

Chapter LXXIII. Chou Pastries ---.... 395 

Choux a la Creme — Making Chou Paste — Filling for Choux k la Creme— Cream Buns 
— Colours for Small Cream Buns — Pralinee Cream Buns — To prepare Pralinee— Use 
of Pralinee Powder— Cheaper Cream Bun Mixture— ifcclairs — Filling ilclairs- Colour 
of Chocolate for Eclairs — Variety of Eclairs — Pralinee Fingers— Vanilla Rings — 
Bordeaux Fancies — Chocolate Rognons, No. 2 — Fedora Cakes. 

Chapter LXXIV. Meringue Goods .---... 398 

Meringue Baskets, Vases, Boxes, &c. — Cold Meringue becomes Soft — Hot Meringue 
remains Dry — Grease must be Avoided — Whites of Stale Eggs not Suitable — Changes 
in Egg Albumen with Age — Why Whites should be exposed some time— Copper Bowl 
for Small Quantities— Sponge Machine for Hot Meringue — Causes of Curdling — 
Method of Whisking — Meringue Shells^Small Sizes for Catering — When Meringues 
can be Baked — Why Shells Crack — Indenting or Hollowing Centres — Using Wet 
Boards — Scooping Centres not Satisfactory — Princess Meringues — Pink Meringues 
— Use of Drying Cupboard — Coffee Meringues — Rochers a I'ltalienne — Chocolate 
Rochers — Cocoatines — Mushroom Meringues — Meringue Fingers — Surprises, 

BISCUITS 
Chapter LXXV. Wine Biscuits - - - 403 

Queen's Drops — Cherry Biscuits — Apricot Drops — African Biscuits — Orange African 
Biscuits — Shrewsbury Biscuits — Derby Biscuits— Fancy Wine Biscuits — Easter Cakes 
— Moss Biscuits — Rich Almond Biscuits — Wholemeal Gingernut Biscuits — Coffee 
Biscuits — Presburg Biscuits. 



CONTENTS ix 

Page 

Chapter LXXVL Macaroons and Almond Biscuits .... 407 

Ready-prepared Almonds — Testing Ground Almonds before Mixing — Adulteration of 
• Almonds — Over-dried Almonds — To Soften Hard Almonds — Use of Filleted Almonds 
— Mixing Bitter Almonds for Flavour — Blanching Almonds — Use of Cold Water in 
Blanching — Raw Almond Paste — Boiled Almond Paste — Almond Centres in Wedding 
Cakes — Tin Support for Almond Paste— Almond Macaroons— Why Macaroons are 
Baked in a Cold Oven — Stale Sponge in Macaroons — Cherry Macaroons — Macarons 
Brillants — Light Macaroon Mixture — Macarons Demours — Use for Macaroon Crumbs 
— Chocolate Macaroons — Method of Mixing Cocoa — Cheap Chocolate Macaroons — 
Ratafias and their Uses — Cheaper Ratafias — Fancy Macaroons — Orange Macaroons — 
Why Macaroons are sometimes Unshapely — Coloured Cocoanut — Imitating Pistachios 
— Pineapple Macaroons — Strawberry Macaroons — Parisian or French Rout Biscuits — 
Quick Method of making French Routs — Jfitoile Biscuits — Lorange Pistache — Walnut 
Macaroons — Boules Egyptiennes — Masking with Filleted Almonds — Rosamond Drops 
— Fours Framboises — Nemours Biscuits — To make Jelly firm for Decoration — Maca- 
rons Blancs — Spanish Macaroons — Almond Batons — Almond Drops — English Rout 
Biscuits — Filbert Biscuits — Finishing Filberts — Almond Routs — Raspberry Biscuits 
— Egg Icing— Dutch Macaroons — To prevent Blowings in Dutch Macaroons — Quick 
Method for Dutch Macaroons — Dora Fancies — Anglo-Swiss Biscuits — Zanzibar 
Biscuits — Souffles — Souffles with Whites only — Carres Cafe Biscuits — Viennese Batons 
— Vanilla Boats — Marquises — Negro Biscuits — Granulated Chocolate — Cocoanut 
Dessert Biscuits — Chocolate Almond Batons — Vanilla Patience Biscuits — Waxing 
Baking Sheets — Battenberg Drops— Languea de Chat — Vanilla Cream Drops — 
Copeaux — Twisting Shavings — Cheaper Copeaux — Tuiles. 



SPECIAL GOODS 
Chapter LXXVIL Marzipan and its Uses 427 

Origin and History of Marzipan — Machinery or Utensils Necessary — Preparing the 
Almonds — Pounding Almonds — Boiling the Marzipan — Sign of Readiness — Keeping 
Marzipan — Uses of Marzipan — Marzipan in Cakes — Marzipan Macaroons — Marzipan 
Rout Biscuits — Marzipan Ice Custard — Marzipan Blancmange — Marzipan Ice Wafers 
— Marzipan Congress Tartlets — Marzipan Cheese Cakes — Marzipan and Butter Cream 
Centres in Fancy Pastry — For Gateaux — For Wedding Cakes — Marzipan Sweetmeats 
and Chocolates — Marzipan Cakes — Marzipan Fancies — Moulding Flowers — Modelling 
Leaves — Building up Roses — Painting Roses— Modelling Fruits and Vegetables — 
Glazing Fruits, &c. — Dissolving Gum Arabic. 

Chapter LXXVIII. Fruit Tarts 432 

Closed Fruit Tarts — Open Fruit Tarts— Large Open Tarts— Apple Tart— Apricot and 
Peach Tart— Fresh Apricot Tart — Strawberry Tarts— Pineapple Tarts- Masked Jam 
Tarts — Small Fancy Fruit Tarts — Norman Tarts- Marengo Tarts. 

Chapter LXXIX. Gateaux - - - 434 

Tricolour Gateau — Sunflower Gateau — Avondale G&teau — Erin Gateau — 6toile Gateau 
— Gateau Souvaroff — Gateau Marquise — Floral Giteau — Brunswick Gateau — Almond 
Cream Filling— Almond Gateau — Madeleine Gateau — St. Denis Gateau — Snow Gateau 
— Hamburg Gateau — Mousseline Gateau — Shamrock Gateau — Piped or Moulded Harp 
— Nougat Gateau (five recipes) — Gateau Damier — Ambrose Gateau — Gateau Cavour — 
Imperial Gateau — Gateau Supreme — Gateau Suzette — Gateau Gabrielle — Gateau 
Singapore — Chopped Fruit Paste — Gateau Le Grandi — Le Golbert Gateau — La Rose 
Gateau — Pulled-sugar Roses — Mousseline Rose Gateau — Mousseline Vanilla Gateau 
— Mousseline Violet Gateau — Mousseline Orange Gateau — Gateau d'Amandes — 
Almond-lined Moulds — Melon Gateau — Imitation Melon Seeds — Swallow's Nest 



X CONTENTS 

Page 
Gateau — Cream of Marron — Bird Piped with Cream — Gateau la Duse — Gateau la 
Boule de Neige — Gateau Marcellin — Violet Gateau — Vermicelli Gateau — Gateau 
Saint Honore — Building up the Gateau — Special Custard for St. Honore — Whipped 

Cream Filling — Cheap Mixed Cream — Decorating with Fondants and Fruit 

Elaborate Gateau St. Honore — Use of Spun Sugar — Rich Gateau St. Honore Filling 

Cream Buns \^cithout Cutting. 

SLAB CAKES, SHORTBREAD, ETC. 
Chapter LXXX. Scotch and other Shortbread . ^ . . 447 

Scotch Bakers and Scotch Shortbread — Flour for Shortbread — Why Spots Appear — 
Importance of Methods of Mixing — How to Mould Shortbread— Use of Paper in 
Working— Penny Shortbread Squares— How Sugar is Fired— Quantities for Thirty 
Cakes— Petticoat Tails — Heat of Oven for Shortbread— Why Shortbread is sometimes 
Burned —Thickness of Cakes— Quality of Materials— Recipe for Shortbread— Blocking 
Shortbread— Pitcaithly Bannocks — German Shortbread — Decorated Shortbread — 
Mottoes on Shortbread— Preparation of Peel Letters, &c., in Advance— English 
Shortbread — Sheet Shortbread — Boat-shaped Shortbreads— Shortbread Fingers— 
Afternoon-Tea Shortbread. 

Chapter LXXXI. Gingerbread and Ginger Cakes - - . . 451 

Gingerbread Six Centuries Ago— Continental Honey Cake— "Worked Treacle" — 
Use of Golden Syrup— Block Gingerbread — Gingerbread Glaze — Factory-made 
Gingerbread —Moulded Blocks at Sixpence— Small Gingerbread Squares— Ginger 
Cakes — Oval Almond Ginger Cakes — Iced Ginger Cakes. 

Chapter LXXXII. Cake Manufacture - 454 

How Cakes are Spoiled — Display and Stocking of Cake — Overloaded Fruit Cake — 
Continental Cakes — Use of Salt Butter — Methods of Beating Batter— Time to Bake 
Small Cakes— To Aerate the Batter — Machinery in Cake-making — Mixing Flour by 
Hand — Method of Preparing Cheap Cakes — Why the Machine may make Cakes 
Heavy — New Method of Beating Fine Cakes— To Cause Batters to take more Liquor 
— Method of mixing Cheap Slabs — Butter Substitutes in Cakes —Cheap Cakes with 
Butter only— Non-economical Butter — Wrong Use of Butter Substitutes— Thick 
Crusts on Cakes— Cause of Hard Cracks on Cakes — Temperatures for Cake-baking — 
Cakes Sinking in the Centre— The Curdling of Mixtures — Fruit for Cakes — Baking 
Cakes at a Suitable Temperature — Baking Cakes in Batches — Baking Wedding Cakes 
— Storing Wedding Cakes—Sugar for Cake-making — Cherries Sinking in Cakes — 
Heavy Cake— Eggs— Pickling of Eggs— Recipes for Madeira, Genoa, Fruit, Rice, 
Alexandra, Sultana, Ch<^rry, Wedding, Dundee, and Christmas Cakes. 

THE ORNAMENTATION OF CAKES 
Chapter LXXXHI. Piping with Royal Icing 464 

Royal Icing — Why Icing is sometimes Dull and Yellow — Hardness of Royal Icing — 
— Preparing Royal Icing — Sign of Readiness — Plaster Cover for Bowl — To keep Icing 
Soft — Why Acid is used in Icing — Why Blue is used — Coating the Cakes — Making 
Smooth Top for Cake— Effects of Thinning too much— Obsolete Tubes— Use of Paper 
Cornet Only— Piping on Prepared Tin, &c. — Use of Waxed Paper— Flower Piping — 
Rose Petal Tube with Curled Edge— Two-colour Petals on Flowers— Rosebuds — 
Narcissus — Marguerites — Piping Sugar Leaves — Moulding Rose Leaves — Piping 
Letters on Cake with Paper Bag— Templets for Cake-top Designs — Making Fondant 
Centres — Star Design — How to keep Sugar Strings Round — How to cut Paper Bag 
— Scroll— Hollow Stem Design — Bevelled Boards for Cakes — Stencils for Cake Sides 
and Tops. 



LIST OF PLATES 



DIVISIONAL-VOL. Ill 

Page 

Moulded Marzipan Flowers (Coloured) - - - - Frontispiece 

Babas, Savarins, and Kouglof . . ■ - 310 

Large and Small Brioche Shapes - - 314 

Specimens of Chemically Aerated Goods 322 

Former Presidents, National Association of Master Bakers - 330 

William Roff. George Winn. 

John Humphreys. James H. Morrison. 

Types of Saleable Shop Pastries 338 

Notable Welsh Bakers - - - 358 

J. Clement Cobb. John Walker. 

William J. Travers. John H. Davis. 

Types of Dessert Fancies (Coloured) ...... 378 

Petits Fours Glaces (Coloured) - - 392 

Chou Pastries - - 396 

Types of Fancy Meringues - - - 402 

Almond-blanching Machine 408 

Types of Fancy Dessert Biscuits (Coloured) 414 

Fancy Biscuits (Coloured) - - 420 

Almond-grinding Mills 426 

Almond-filleting Machine; Almond Sifting and Separating 

Machine ------ 428 



i LIST OF PLATES 

Page 

Almond Slicing, Grating, and Breaking Machine; Almond- 
splitting Machine for Power - 432 

Types of Dessert GIteaux {Coloured) ------ 440 

Types of Saleable Gateaux {Coloured) - - . - . . 444 

Some Leading Scottish Bakers - 452 

Simon Henderson. Petbr Hanlon. 

Robert Lyon. William Forwell. 

Types of Slab Cakes 450 

Piped Scrolls for Cake Sides and Panels - - - . - 470 



FERMENTED BUNS 



309 



Crullers are sometimes rolled out in long strips and twisted instead of 
being made as rings. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 5, 6, 7, 10.) The 
fat should in the meantime be in preparation, and when it is hot enough, 
by the sign given above, the crullers are dropped in. If only a Frying 
few are required a wire spoon, or even a piece of wood, will be Crullers, 
sufficient to turn these when done on one side, and to lift them out when 
tinished; but if the trade is in any way large it is better to have a special 
pan made for boiling them, and to have two or three wire trays made to 
fit the pan, so that when one baking of dough nuts or crullers is done, 
the whole can be lifted out at once and allowed to drain on the tray by 
which it is lifted from the boiling pan, while a clean tray is placed there 

for the next batch. 

One of the common faults with buns 
boiled in fat is that after they are cooled 
they have a very fatty taste, Greasy 
the dough itself being some- Dough Nuts, 
what sodden and the outside covered with 
quite a skin of fat and sugar. This defect 
is the direct result of the fat being too cold 
when the rolls are first placed in it. On 
this account a skin is not quickly formed 
on the outside of the roll, and the heated 
fat has time to permeate the dough: on 
the other hand, when the fat is hot enough, 
it forms a crust on the rolls almost Heat of 
immediately after they are placed ^^*- 
in it, and little or none soaks in. Besides 
producing rolls that are pleasanter to eat, this condition is of course more 
profitable, as much less fat is needed. It should be a standing instruction 
in the bakery that the dough-nut pan be cleaned out each day it is used. 
The flour and pieces of dough which are detached from the rolls fall to 
the bottom, and become burned and black, and when the fat is shallow 
the dough nuts get dirtied in this. 

Instead of boiling dough nuts, the same pieces, with jam in centre, 
rolled round and proved, can be baked in small fluted or plain tins, and 
are then called snowballs. The tins are similar to the common sort snow- 
used for cheese cakes, and the buns are proved in them in the usual balls, 
way in a dry, warm cupboard, as they are wanted round and plnmp, and 
steam, if in any appreciable quantity, softens and flattens them. When 
sufficiently proved they are washed over lightly with milk, and castor 
sugar is dusted on their tops. (See Plate, Fermented Buns, Nos. 19, 20.) 
When nearly baked they are dusted over wdth pulverized sugar and 
returned to the oven for a few seconds to set this, but not long enough 
to melt the sugar. These buns lend variety to the common goods in the 
window, and, being white, look rather enticing and sell well. The size 
they are made must depend on the price to be obtained. As a rule, they 

^ VOL.1. 40 




Fig. 27. — Pan and Drainer for Dough Nuts 



310 FERMENTED BUNS AND CAKES 

are sold amongst the halfpenny buns, and are therefore not made larger 
than 1^ oz. each. 



CHAPTER LIII 

BABAS AND SAVARINS 



Babas and savarins are a class of fermented goods, mostly of French 
origin, which are supplied in high-class confectioners' shops. The latter 
are so named from Brillat-Savarin, a famous writer on gastronomy. They 
are either sold dry to customers, who have to finish them for the table as 
required, or they are sent out ready prepared. They are generally soaked 
in a boiling syrup strongly flavoured with rum and such liqueurs as 
maraschino, noyau, «Sz;c. The dough for these things is obtained very 
How Baba Dough light by being toughened through much mixing. They 
is Lightened. are made in several shapes (see Plate, Babas, Savarins, 

AND Kouglof), and are intended to be filled with whipped cream or 
stewed fruits. The following is the recipe and method for 

Large Babas au Rhum 

IJ lb. strong flour. 

Recipe for a 1 lb. butter (clarified). 

Large Baba , 

au Rhum. 1 oz. yeast. 

1| oz. castor sugar. 

10 eggs. 

3 gills warm milk. 

I lb. currants. 

^ lb. finely chopped mixed peel. 

1 gill rum. 

Sift the flour and draw aside about 4 oz.; make a bay; place the yeast 
in the centre, and add enough warm milk to make all into a light sponge. 
Method of Prove in a basin in a warm cupboard. With the remainder 
Making of the flour also make a bay, into which place the sugar and 

°"^ ■ two-thirds of the eggs. Make all into a dough, gradually 
adding the remainder of the eggs. The dough at this stage will be fairly 
stift". Toughen it thoroughly by mixing, and while so doing add the 
Toughening remainder of the milk. Throw the dough over, and bang it 
Process. on the board several times until quite elastic. Gradually mix 

in the warm butter, give all another beating, and cut in the sponge to this 
with both hands. Place all on the oven stock to rest for half an hour in 
Stage for ^ warm pan, then beat again and fill in the moulds. Fluted 

Sponge Mixing, copper or tin moulds are used for these large babas. Dress 
with clarified butter. Fill the moulds about one-quarter full with the pre- 
pared dough, dropping it in a little at a time with the fingers, then smooth- 
ing round. Cover with a cloth, and store in a warm part of the bakehouse 



BABAS, SAVARINS, AND KOUGLOF 

1, Savarin of Cherries. 

2, 17. Orange Babas. 

3, Savarin with Preserved Fruits. 

4, 7, II, 12. Babas. 

5, 6. Almond Creams. 

8, 13. Almond Savarins. 

9, 10. Savarins au Kirsch. 
14, 15. Noyeau Savarins. 

16. Savarin of Apricots and Cream. 
18. Plain Savarin. 

Centre piece is a Kouglof. 




% 




o 





J. 7 






e 




® 



w 



o 





# 




BABAS, SAVARINS, AND KOUGLOF 



BABAS AND SAVARINS 



311 




until sufficiently proved. If possible, these moulds should not be placed 
in the drying oven ; for this is frequently too hot, and in consequence 
the butter runs down the sides of the mould, causing the cause of Cakes 
cakes to break when being turned out. When adding the Sticking to 
paste to the larger moulds, take hold of the quantity required 
with both hands, stretch this long, place round in the mould, and tap it 
on the board to settle the paste. When the paste has proved to within 
an inch of the top of the mould, bake to a rich golden colour in a fairly 
hot oven. Turn out on a wire tray, and when cold dip ^^^ 

into hot syrup; remove after a few seconds, and pour over 
each a little Jamaica rum. The cakes will slightly swell out when placed 

in the syrup, and will be ready for 
serving. They should eat rich and 
light, and if the paste has been 
toughened as suggested the cake 
will show no sign of breaking. 

These goods are generally re- 
quired in very small quantity, and 
if it is not convenient to Method 
make a special dough for for Small 
them, this dough may be ^"^" ' '^^* 
prepared from a piece of ordinary 
bun dough thus. Take 2 lb. of dough 
from plain bun dough as already 
described, and thoroughly mix ^ lb. 
of sweet butter into it on the board; 
then mix in, a few at a time, 1 pt. of 
egg yolks. Work and stretch this 
very soft dough over and over the 
hands, flapping it on the board until 
it becomes very tough. Fill it, as 
already described, into well-greased moulds, and prove in a warm place 
under a damp cloth. These cakes take a considerable time to prove, owing 
to the quantity of yolks in the dough; about | in. from the top of the 
mould is a good sign of readiness. Owing to differences in the sizes of 
moulds, it is difficult to give the quantity of dough required for each, but the 
quantities given above should be sufficient for twelve or thirteen moulds. 
When sufficiently proved they are treated in the manner already described. 

Small Babas au Rhum 

The following is a method for small Babas au RhuTn. Dress small 
dariole moulds with butter, and one-quarter fill each with paste made up 
as for large babas. Remove the paste from the mixing-bowl shapes of 
to the moulds with the fingers, shape each piece round on the Small Sizes, 
side of the pan, and drop into the centre of the moulds. Prove, bake, and 
finish off as for large cakes. 




Fig. 28. — Mixiiigbowl and Stand 



312 



FERMENTED BUNS AND CAKES 



Orange Babas 

When customers object to the use of spirits, recourse may be had to 

Babas with- ^^^^^ essences. The following recipe for Orange Babas is in 

out Spirit. much favour. Flavour the dough with the zest of four 

oranges, prove in small crimp moulds 3 in. long and 1| in. wide, and soak 

^ „ ^ in orange syrup. Brush over the top with some apricot 

Orange Babas. . i • ,i , • i ^ v.i' 

jelly, and pipe on the centre, with paper cornet and star 

tube, a little orange -flavoured whipped cream. Lemon -flavoured babas 

may be prepared in the same way. (See Plate, Nos. 2, 17.) 

Large Savarins au Kirsch 

Large Savarins au Kirsch may be made from paste prepared as for 
babas, only without the addition of currants or other dried fruit; but the 
Savarins dough may be flavoured with zest of lemon. Use oval or round 

with Kirsch. plain moulds with centre tube (fig. 29). These are generally 
about 2| in. high, and the paste is 
proved to almost fill them. This 
will rise during the baking to ^ in. 
higher than the mould without fall- 
ing over the side. Soak in hot 
syrup, flavoured with kirsch. These 
Filleted Almonds are served up in 
in Moulds. various forms, 

sometimes sent up to the table 
quite plain (see Plate, Babas, 
Savarins, and Kouglof, Nos. 9, 

10), without cream or fruits in them. The appearance of these cakes may 
be improved, if required, by dressing the moulds with thin filleted almonds, 
which should be freshly blanched. Methods of decorating and preparing 
savarins for the table will be given in the chapter on Entremets. 

Small Savarins au Kirsch 

Small Savarins auu Kirsch are made in shallow round moulds, raised 
in the centre, 3 in. in diameter, and about 1 in. deep. They are turned 
Finishing upside down when soaked, and finished ofl" with a little 

Small Savarins. whipped cream in the centre. On top of the cream half 
a bright cherry or a little chopped pistachio nut is placed. 

Small Almond Savarins 

Small Almond Savarins are made in round moulds, 2| in. in diameter, 
and 1| in. deep. They are dressed with butter and finely chopped almonds. 
Almond Prepare the savarin paste, and add 2 oz. ground bitter almonds; 
Savarins. place a small portion into each mould, prove, bake, and soak in 
hot syrup. Sprinkle over each some noyau liqueur, brush over with hot 
jelly, and place a split almond on the top of each. (See Plate, Nos. 8, 13.) 




Fig. 29.— Savarin Mould 



BRIOCHE AND KOUGLOF 



313 



Almond Cream Batons 




Fig. 30.— Forcing-bag and Star Tube 



Very neat and tasty cakes 
called Almond Cream Batons 
are made from a little savarin 
paste, baked in small boat-shaped 
moulds, soaked in Almond 
syrup, flavoured Cream Batons 
with noyau liqueur, and brushed 
over with apricot jelly. They 
are cut down the centre of one 
side, and a little whipped cream 
is placed in each with a forcing- 
bag and a small star tube (fig. 30). 
In adding the cream, care must 
be taken to pipe it in the cut 
neatly; otherwise the cakes look 
rather messy. Finish by sprink- 
ling on the top of each some 
chopped pistachio or green desic- 
cated cocoanut. 



CHAPTER LIV 



BRIOCHE AND KOUGLOF 

On the Continent brioche is in great favour as a fancy fermented cake. 
It is made very rich, but without much sugar, and is eaten with cream or 
with savoury filling. The following quantities and method make satis- 
factory brioche dough or paste: — 

3 lb. flour. 

If lb. butter. Brioche Dough 

, 1 . or Paste. 

1:^ oz. yeast. 

1 oz. salt. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 
24 eggs. 

Sift the flour, and take about 4 oz. of it, and with the yeast and a little 
warm water make up a small sponge, and place away in a warm place to 
prove. Make a bay with the remainder of the flour; mix in Method of 
two-thirds of the eggs, add the sugar and salt, and make all into Mixing, 
a fairly stiff dough. Work in the remainder of the eggs, and mix in the 
butter; then add the sponge, and store away in a cold place, covered with a 
cloth in a clean pan, for eight or nine hours before working off*. This paste 
is generally made up the last thing in the evening and used up first thing 



314 FERMENTED BUNS AND CAKES 

in the morning. Small buttered crimp pans, 2| in. in diameter and 1^ in. 

Shapes of deep, should be prepared for these cakes, which are shaped 

Small Brioche, cottage-loaf fashion or other fancy shape (see Plate, Large 

AND Small Bkioche Shapes). Turn out the paste upon a board dusted 

with flour, scale ofl" in 2^-oz. pieces, hand up, and mould. Wash over with 

egg, make three incisions with a pair of scissors round the side of each, 

and bake in a hot oven. 

The larger brioches are made in more or less fancy shapes (see Plate, 

Brioche Shapes), amongst which a crown is a favourite. Scale off 1 lb. 

„ . ^ ^ of paste, hand up, and allow to lie covered over on the 

Brioche Crown. , , « ^.p . ,. , , i • 

board tor liiteen minutes. Make a hole in the centre, and 

gradually enlarge it by working the dough between the hands until a ring 

is formed about 8 in. in diameter. Without spoiling the shape lay this upon 

Mode of a greased baking sheet and wash over with egg. With a sharp 

Shaping, pair of scissors cut round the inside circle of the paste, making 

the incisions all at the same angle so as to show prominently when baked. 

For small savoury sandwiches brioche is made up in fingers. These 
fingers are made by shaping small pieces of the dough baked in oblong 
Brioche moulds, or rolled up under the hand, washed over with egg. 

Sandwiches, g^^d baked in a hot oven. Wash twice to give them a rich 
bloom, cut when cold, and sandwich together Mdth whipped cream, potted 
meat, or chopped egg and cress. 

Brioche paste is made up in many shapes. When not served with 
cream or savouries, the small cakes are generally eaten with wine or 
_ f. coflee. Those confectioners who cater for light luncheons 

Brioche and should find this paste very useful. The characteristic about 
Its Uses. brioche, which distinguishes it generally from other sorts of 

fermented cakes, is its short and cheesy nature when eaten. 

KOUGLOF 

A form of rich light cake greatly favoured in Germany and called 
Kotvglof (see Plate, Babas, Savarins, and Kouglof) is now made by a 
good many English confectioners. There does not seem to 
be any set rule for making these rich cakes. Some are 
prepared from rich bun dough; others are made with rich paste very similar 
to that used for savarins, only containing extra sugar, and in some districts 
the butter used is chopped in with the flour, no yeast is added, and the 
white of eggs is beaten up separately before being mixed with the other 
ingredients. A special dough for this cake is made as follows: — 

2 lb. flour. 2^ gills milk. 

Fermented | lb. butter. -J lb. stoned raisins. 

Kouglof Dough. g ^^ ^^gj.Qj. g^g^j. ^ lb currants. 

1 oz. 3'east. 2 oz. finely chopped peel. 

10 eggs Zest of 3 lemons. 

Sift the flour, and with the yeast and part of the warm milk make a 




LARGE AND SMALL BRIOCHE SHAPES 



SCONES 315 

sponge. With the remainder of the flour, sugar, eggs, and milk make all 

into a clear dough; work in the butter, add the sponge, fruits, and lemon 

zest, and place in a pan on the oven stock to prove, while dressing the 

moulds with clarified butter and thin filleted almonds. Beat the paste well 

in the pan, and then place enough in each mould to fill little more than 

one-third of its capacity. When this has reached to within 1 in. of the 

top, bake in a hot oven, turn out on a wire tray, and dust with icing sugar. 

Another recipe, in which eggs are the only aerating agent, is as 

follows: — 

4 oz. flour. 

Sh oz. butter. Unfermented 

07 Kouglof Dough, 
3^ oz. sugar. ^ " 

6 whites. 

8 yolks. 

4 oz. mixed fruit. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

Chop the butter in small pieces with the flour. Place the yolks and sugar 
in a mixing-bowl, and cream these up light with a spatula. Whisk the 
whites quite fii-m, stir these in with the yolks and sugar. Method of 
then add the mixed flour and butter, stir in the fruit. Dough-making, 
and three-parts fill the mould. Bake at a moderate temperature. When 
cold, dust over with icing sugar. This mixture will give good results 
if made carefully. The cake is very light, and requires careful baking. 
It should not be turned out from the mould until thoroughly baked, or 
there is danger of its sinking in at the sides. 

Dough from the same mixture is sometimes made up in flat sheets, and 
either dusted over with sugar or iced over with fondant or water icing 
it is sold as coffee cake; but this is usually done with the 
fermented variety made poorer in quality than the recipe 
given above, especially in the matter of eggs. Cofiee cake is wanted 
much whiter in colour than the kouglof made in a mould. 



CHAPTER LV 

SCONES 

Bakers and confectioners of to-day can hardly realize the difficulties 
of those of former times in the matter of lightening their common goods. 
Yeast of the home-made sort they always had, and this t • u^ • a 

•^ •^ ' Lightening Agents 

was invariably used although it was necessarily a slow- Used in old Time 
working agent. Eggs could be used only for better- ^ Bakers, &c. 
class and expensive goods, and butter was, if not the lifting, at least the 
relieving agent in pufi* paste. It is quite safe to say that about eighty 
years ago no chemicals except pearlash and alum were used by the baker 



316 CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 

as aerating agents. About this time the use of the sesquicarbonate of 
ammonia became common; then carbonate of magnesia was tried by 
itself and also along with tartaric acid, and cream of tartar, and with 
Aerating Agents s^lphuric acid; then ordinary carbonate of soda was tried 
Used in with the acid substances just mentioned. These experi- 

inger rea . ments were conducted for the most part in connection 

with gingerbread - making, and it was some time before any of these 
things were used in cake or in white bread. For a long period mixtures 
of tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda were in greatest favour with the 
trade, but, as explained in the section on Chemical Aerating Agents (Vol. I, 
Soda and P- 241), the rapid action of these substances on each other 

Tartaric Acid, made them unsuitable for the baker's often slow operations, 
and in consequence cream of tartar has almost wholly taken the place 
of tartaric acid. A reference to the section just mentioned will show 
how many and various are the substitutes for cream of tartar now offered 
Soda and to the trade, and on account of their comparative cheap- 

Cream of Tartar, jjggg they find a good deal of favour. The writer, how- 
ever, after a long experience of substitutes, has a strong liking for pure 
cream of tartar to use along with bicarbonate of soda, and believes that 
Substitutes for better and more uniform results are obtained from these 
Cream of Tartar, than from any of the substitutes in the market. The 
effects of the various chemicals on each other have been already fully 
explained, and it is only necessary now to proceed to a description of the 
method of preparing the several classes of goods aerated by this means. 

One point of interest may, however, be raised here as to the chemical 
effects of the milk used in such goods. In Ireland and Scotland the almost 
Chemical universal practice is to use buttermilk — not separated milk 

Effects of Milk. — fyj, baking purposes. This milk is sour — that is, it con- 
tains a considerable quantity of lactic acid — and this souring has taken 
place while the cream was in or on the milk. The general idea is that the 
use of such milk saves the cream of tartar, since the acid of the milk takes 
its place as a neutralizer of some of the soda. But it is an accepted article 

„ f, . of faith with those who use buttermilk that it produces a 

Softening , , ^ 

Effects of bulkier, softer, and moister-eating scone than one made even 
Buttermilk, ^^-^j^ fresh milk. This has been explained already as being 
due to the softening or maturing or ripening action of the lactic acid of 
the milk on the gluten of the flour, an action somewhat akin to that which 
proceeds during fermentation. But if on account of the presence of this 
acid in the milk the quantity of cream of tartar be too much reduced — if, 
in other words, all the milk acid is neutralized by excessive soda — then its 
property as a softening agent is destroyed, since it cannot perform two 
Ph sical Effect separate chemical actions at the same time. When frt sh 
of Butter in milk is used, the contained butter exercises a softening 

New Milk. effect on the goods; but the nature of this softening is quite 

distinct from that due to the use of buttermilk; it is a physical, while the 
latter is a chemical effect. 



SCONES 



317 



Where the quantity of aerated scones and cakes to be made is very 
small, it is better to mix a large quantity, say a 140-lb. bag, of flour with the 
necessary chemicals at once, and then use the flour afterwards standard 
as "patent" flour or "soda" flour. The usual and always Proportion 
efficient mixture is 1 oz. of bicarbonate of soda and 2 oz. of 
cream of tartar to each 4 lb. of flour, so that a bag of 140 lb. requires 
2 lb. 3 oz. of bicarbonate of soda and 4 lb. 6 oz. of cream of tartar. This 
should, of course, be sifted at least twice. It is the practice in some 
bakeries to prepare one lot of flour for cake and another lot for scones, 
the former with smaller quantities of the chemicals; but experience teaches 
that this plan is more apt to cause confusion than to facilitate the work. 
It is always possible to use the full patent flour in any quantity along with 
plain flour, so that the amount of the chemicals in any given mixture can 
be adjusted as desired. 

As aerating agents for some kinds of cakes and biscuits, two baking 
powders are referred to in the text further on. The first is known for 
reference as No. 1 powder, and is made by sifting several times Baking 
through a fine wire sieve 1 lb. of cream of tartar, ^ lb. of bicarbonate Powders. 
of soda, and \% lb. of corn flour. For No. 2 powder sift together 4 lb. of 
corn flour, 2 lb. of cream of tartar, 1 lb. bicarbonate of soda, and 2 oz. of 
ammonium carbonate. Both these powders should be stored in air-tight 
canisters. It is more convenient to use them than to weigh small quan- 
tities of chemicals. 

A good deal of flour is sold by bakers as " self-raising " flour, and for 
this it is better to mix a special lot with a smaller quantity of chemicals, 
as this flour is used in the household practically by itself in g ,, . . 
crusts, cakes, &c., and would not suit if very strong. The Flour for 
following mixture for self-raising flour for shop sales is one ^^^^^^ ^^^^• 
that gives entire satisfaction to customers, and is sold wholesale to grocers 
for retailing: one sack (280 lb.) flour, 1 lb. 14 oz. soda, 3f lb. cream of 
tartar, 2h lb. salt, 10 lb. rice flour. The ingredients are well sifted over the 
flour in a trough, then all mixed together, and afterwards sifted twice. The 
addition of the rice flour assists in keeping the flour dry, but it p , 

has also a shortening effect when the flour is used in home-made Adding 
goods, and this is very much in its favour with the housewife. Flour. 

A common subject of debate in the bakery is whether it is better to 
work up the dough very quickly after it is mixed and get it in the oven 
at once, or whether the goods are improved in bulk and should A rat d 
softness by allowing the dou^h to lie a little. To this the Dough stand 
general answer may be given that if tartaric acid is used ^^^°^^ Baking? 
the goods should be got to the oven as quickly as possible, because a good 
deal of the chemical action takes place in the cold; but if cream of tartar or 
its substitutes are in use, it is well to start dividing the dtiugh and moulding 
the pieces as soon as it is made. But after the scones or cakes are on the 
baking sheets, and do not require to be handled again, they are all the 
better for standing a little, but not too long, before baking. 



Vol. I. 



41 



318 CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 

Sultana Scones 

In London and in most parts of England scones are mostly oven-baked, 
and amongst these the greatest favourite is probably that known as the 
Sultana scone. (See Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, No. 19.) The 
mixture and method are as follows: — 

4 lb. Hungarian and home-milled patent flour. 
Sultana Scones. 2 oz. cream of tartar. 

1 oz. bicarbonate of soda. 

I lb. butter and lard mixed. 

I lb. castor sugar. 

6 oz. Sultana raisins. 

4 eggs. 

About 1 qt. milk. 

Previous to mixing the cream and soda with the flour, these should be 
passed through a hair sieve to break up the particles of soda. With an 
ordinary flour sieve sift all three together several times to ensure thorough 
mixing. Make a bay; place the sugar, lard, butter, and eggs in the centre; 
cream these well together with the hand; add the milk and the sultanas; 
then without toughening make all into a smooth clear dough. Scale ofl' in 
12-oz. pieces, hand up and pin out round, about 7 in. in diameter; place 
upon greased baking sheets, divide each into four pieces of equal size (they 
need not be cut quite through), wash over with Qgg, allow to rest for ten 
minutes, wash over once more, and bake in a hot oven. These scones are 
sold at Id. each, or 3|(i. per round. Some confectioners prefer when pin- 
ning out the dough to keep the centre slightly higher than the sides, with 
Creaming Butter, ^ view to improving the appearance of the scone. It is 
&c., for Scones. better to cream up the fat in the bay than to rub it in the 
flour, as it ensures better mixing. 

Cream Scones 

What are usually called cream scones (see Plate, Chemically Aerated 
Goods, No. 3) are made from the following: — 

4 lb. flour. 
Cream Scones. | lb. butter. 

^ lb. castor sugar. 
2\ oz. cream of tartar. 
1 oz. bicarbonate of soda. 
About 1| pt. milk. 

Make all up into a smooth clear dough as for the former scones, scale off 
in 5i-oz. pieces, pin round to 7 in. diameter, and place upon greased baking 
sheets. Wash over twice with egg and bake in a hot oven. When these 
scones are partly baked, and may be handled without spoiling the shape, 
turn them over on the baking sheet, and return again to the oven to 



SCONES , 319 

finish. Care must be taken that they are not allowed to bake too much 
before turning. 

In London one of the largest tea-shop companies makes a speciality of 
such scones, which are made from the following mixture: 8 lb. London Tea- 
soft flour, 2 oz. bicarbonate of soda, 4 oz. cream of tartar. Shop Scones. 
30 oz. lard, 18 oz. sugar, 12 oz. sultanas, 4 1 pt. milk. These are greasy 
unless handled with care, but they eat Very soft. 

Afternoon tea small scones of the same sort, but cut in four pieces, 
are made thus: — 

4 lb. flour. 2 oz. cream of tartar. 

6 oz. lard. 1 oz. bicarbonate of soda. Afternoon 

10 oz. castor sugar. 1 qt. milk. "^^^ Scones. 

Weigh up and mix all together, scale off in 7-oz. pieces, pin out to 8 in. 
diameter, cut in four, and place on a baking sheet. Wash over with egg, 
and finish as for large cream scones. 

Small batons for sandwiches suitable for receptions or other functions 
may be quickly made thus: — 

4 lb. flour. 

1 lb. butter. Cream Sand- 

li OZ. cream of tartar. "^'"^ ^^'°"'- 

^ oz. bicarbonate of soda. 
8 eggs. 

5 gills milk. 
\ oz. salt. 

Prepare the dough as for scones, allow it to lie for ten minutes, pin out 
I in. thick, and with an oblong cutter 3 in. long and 1^ in. wide' cut out 
without making many trimmings, or cut in oblong pieces Filling for 
with a knife or scraper. Lay on a greased baking sheet, Cream Batons, 
and wash over with egg; let them rest for fifteen minutes, then wash over 
again and bake in a hot oven. These batons when cold may be split and 
sandwiched together with potted meat or fish, or with chopped egg and 
cress. 

Small round cream scones can be made by adding 6 oz. of castor sugar 
to the above recipe. These are cut out with a plain round Cream Filling 
cutter 2| in. in diameter, washed over with egg, and then ^°^ Scones, 
baked on wire trays. They may be served up at afternoon tea, plain or 
sandwiched with cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar. 

Wholemeal Scones 

A recipe for wholemeal scones has already been given, but when a small 
rich scone of this kind is wanted, the following mixture should be used: — 

6 lb. wholemeal. 4 oz. cream of tartar. 

2 lb. plain flour. 2 oz. bicarbonate of soda. Small Whole- 

I lb. lard. 1 lb. 2 oz. castor sugar. '"'^^ ^""^'• 

I lb. butter. 2 qt. milk. 



320 CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 

Prepare as for Sultana scones, scale off in 12-oz. pieces, pin out round, 
and divide in four as for other scones, or cut out oblong in 3-oz. pieces, and 
bake on a wire tray. 

From the above recipes the varieties of scones may be increased by 
altering size or shape. For window purposes it always looks better to have 
this class of goods small, especially in good neighbourhoods, but too much 
care cannot be taken to make them neat and well finished. 



CHAPTER LVI 

CHEMICALLY AERATED BUNS 

Raspberry Buns 

A great variety of soft buns are made with chemicals, among the most 
popular being raspberry buns (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, 
Nos. 2 and 4). The mixture is as follows: — 

3 lb. soft flour. 

Raspberry | lb. butter. 

""^' 1 lb. castor sugar. 

8 eggs. 

2 oz. No. 1 powder. 

3 gills milk. 
Rjispberry jam. 

Sift the flour and powder several times together, make a bay, place the 
sugar, eggs, and butter in the centre, and cream these together; add milk, 
draw in the flour, and make all into a medium stiff" dough. Scale off in 
4-oz. pieces, divide each piece in two, hand up, and turn them over on a 
dusted board. Flatten out with the hand, and place on the centre of each 
Closing Rasp- some raspberry jam, forced out from a paper cornet. Draw 
berry Buns. t,be edges of the dough over the jam, and press the ends well 
together with the fingers to cover up the preserve entirely. Turn the buns 
over again on the board, and wash with white of &gg', dust castor sugar 
on them from a dredger, make four incisions across the top of each with 
a sharp knife, and bake in a hot oven, say about 440° F. Make the cuts on 
the top deep enough to allow the jam to show through when baked. 

CocoANUT Buns 

A popular variety of bun in some localities is covered with shredded 
cocoanut (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 31, 34). For these 
use the following mixture: — 

6 lb. flour. 1^ lb. castor sugar. 

Cocoanut 1 oz. bicarbonate of soda. 16 eggs. 

2 oz. cream of tartar. 6 gills milk. 
If lb. butter. 



CHEMICALLY AERATED BUNS 321 

Prepare as for raspberry buns, hand up, wash with egg, and turn over 
on to some coarse desiccated cocoanut; dust well with sugar and bake in a 
hot oven. If these buns are baked in a cold oven they do not spring so well, 
and they eat dry. 

Rice Buns 

When customers are in doubt what to buy, they invariably turn with 
confidence to rice buns (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 6, 10) 
as something nice enough without being over rich, and even so common 
an article is therefore worth care and attention. The following is a good 
mixture: — 

3 lb. flour. 

6 oz. lard. Rice Buns. 

6 oz. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. 

2 oz. ground rice. 
6 eggs. 

4 gills milk. 

2 J oz. No. 1 powder. 

Mix as for raspberry buns, weigh oflf in 5-oz. pieces, and divide in two. 
Roll round and place near together on the board, then wash with egg, and 
sprinkle some sugar nibs over them. Transfer to the baking sheets, and 
bake in a warm oven. 

Coffee Buns 

Coffee buns (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 28, 29) are 
made from the following mixture: — 

3 lb. flour. 

I oz. bicarbonate of soda and 1 oz. cream of tartar. Coffee 

1 lb. castor sugar. ""^' 

I lb. butter. 

9 eggs. 

3 gills milk. 

Coffee essence. 

Caramel colour.^ 

Prepare the dough in the usual way; then scale and hand up as for 
raspberry buns. Bake without washing over with egg, and when cold 
cover the top of each bun with coffee water icing, made by mixing some 
icing sugar with hot water to a thick paste, and adding a little essence of 
coffee to taste, and colouring with burnt sugar. Finish by placing on each 
a little roasted shredded cocoanut. 

' Caramel or Black Jack is made by burning some sugar in an iron pot, and then dissolving this in a 
little water to make a thick paste. 



322 CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 

Cherry Buns 

For cherry buns (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 11, 12) 
use the following mixture: — 

2 lb. flour. 
Cherry Buns. 10 oz. butter. 

8 oz. castor sugar. 

6 oz. cut citron peel 
^ and cherries mixed. 

1| oz. No. 1 powder. 

A little milk. 

5 eggs. 

Scale these buns off in l|-oz. pieces, and wash over with white of egg', 
place half a cherry on the top of each, dust well with castor sugar, splash 
lightly with water, and bake to a light golden colour. 

Orange Buns 

Orange buns (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 25, 26) 
are prepared as for cherry buns, except that the zest of two oranges is added 
in place of the cherries and citron peel. Hand up and wash 
over with white of egg. Cut the orange peel into round 
pieces with a small cutter, and place one piece in the centre of each bun; 
Orange Peel dust with sugar and bake. These buns also look attractive 
Discs. when baked plain and washed over with orange-flavoured 

water icing when cold, then decorated with the orange peel. 

Rock Cakes 

Another universal and old favourite is the rock cake (see Plate, Chemi- 
cally Aerated Goods, Nos. 15, 83), made with the following mixture: — 

4 lb. flour. 
Rock Cakes. 1^ lb. sugar. 

14 oz. lard and butter mixed. 

10 eggs. 

1 lb. mixed fruit. 

^ oz. bicarbonate of soda. 

1 oz. of cream of tartar. 

3 gills milk. ' 

Another recipe for rocks is: — 

4 lb. soft flour. f lb. currants. 

Cheap Rocks. 1 oz. bicarbonate of soda. ^ lb. mixed peel. 

2 oz. cream of tartar. 5 eggs. 

l^ lb. (pieces) moist sugar. Egg colour, essence of lemon. 

I lb. butter substitute. 6 gills milk. 

Make all into a fairly soft dough as for raspberry buns, break off in 



SPECIMENS OF CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 




I, 32, Madeira Cakes. 2, 4, Raspberry Buns. 3, Cream Scone. 5, 8, Queen Cakes. 6, 10, Rice 

Buns. 7, 9, Cocoanut Bars. 11, 12, Small Cherry Cakes. 13, 17, Lemon Buns. 14, 16, Small Tea 
Scones. 15, 33, Rock Cakes. 18, 20, Lemon Bars. 19, Sultana Scone. 21, 24, Mixed Fruit Buns. 
22, 23, Cocoanut Boats. 25, 26, Orange Buns. 27, 30, Lemon Curd Buns. 28, 29, Coffee Buns. 

31, 43, Cocoanut and Cherry Buns. 




SPECIMENS OF CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 



CHEMICALLY AERATED BUNS 323 

pieces about 2^ oz. each, place on greased baking sheets; shape with a 
fork, wash over with egg, dust each with castor sugar, and bake in a hot 
oven. The mixture will make about 56 cakes at Id. each. 

CocoANUT Bars 

Cocoanut bars (see Plate, Chemically . Aerated Goods, Nos. 7, 9) are 
another variety made with the following mixture: — 

4 lb. flour. 

1 lb. castor sugar. Cocoanut Bars. 

I lb. lard. 

h lb. butter. 

2J oz. No. 1 powder. 

4 gills milk. 

6 eggs. 

Essence of lemon. 
Egg colouring. 

Mix all together as for cocoanut buns, and hand up in 2|-oz. pieces. Roll 
out finger-shape to a length of 3^ in., wash over with egg, cover the top of 
each with coarse desiccated cocoanut, dust with castor sugar, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Instead of the above the following may be used: — 

4 lb. flour. 

1^ lb. sugar. 

I lb. butter substitute. 

3^ oz. No. 1 powder, . 

7 gills milk. 
Essence of lemon. 
Egg colour. 

Prepare in the usual way, and scale off at 3| oz. each. 

Lemon Buns 

Bun§ are usually baked on flat sheets, but the same mixtures can be 
baked in moulds, and may still be called buns, although the geneial practice 
is to name them cakes. The following lemon buns or calces (see Plate, 
Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 13, 17) made in moulds are a satis- 
factory line: — 

IJ lb flour. 

10 oz. castor sugar. Lemon Buns 

7 oz. butter. ^" ^°"^^«- 

1 oz. No. 1 powder. 

5 eggs. 

1| gills milk. 

Zest of 2 lemons. 

4 oz. finely chopped lemon peel. 



324 CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 

Prepare dough in the usual way, scale off in l|-oz. pieces, roll round 
and place in greased plain round moulds similar to those used for penny 
custards. Wash over with white of egg; cut out small round pieces of 
thin lemon, and place one piece in the centre of each bun; dust with sugar, 
and bake thoroughly. The tops should be pale in colour; therefore the 
oven must not be over hot. 

Almond Buns 

Another variety, made in somewhat the same way, is called an almond 
bun. The quantities of ingredients are: — 

^ lb. stale sponge-cake crumbs. 
Almond Buns. 1^ lb. flour, 

f lb. butter. 
6 oz. castor sugar. 
6 eggs. 
2 oz. powder. 
2 gills milk 
Essence of almonds. 

Prepare in the usual way, scale into li-oz. pieces, place into oval dressed 
moulds, wash over with egg, place a split almond on the centre of each, 
sprinkle some cake crumbs over them, and bake in a hot oven. 



CHAPTER LVII 

SMALL CHEMICALLY AERATED CAKES 

Heart Cakes 

Heart cakes are a kind of cheap flour confectionery that belongs essen- 
tially to the cake class. The following is the recipe: — 

1| lb. flour. 
Heart Cakes. | \\y sugar. 

^ lb. butter. 

6 eggs. 

^ pt. milk. 

^ lb. currants. 

^ oz. cinnamon sugar. 

I oz. No. 1 powder. 

These small cakes are baked in heart-shaped frames 1^ in. deep without 
bottoms, upon papered baking sheets. Cream the butter and sugar well 
together; beat in the eggs gradually; add the flour, milk, and currants, and 
fill the frames from a forcing-bag and ^ in. plain tube. They are sold at 
Id. each. 



SMALL CHEMICALLY AERATED CAKES 326 

Another and a richer recipe for heart cakes is as follows: — 

U lb. flour. 

l.V lb. eggs weighed in shells. Rich Heart 

Cakes 
1 lb. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. 

6 oz. cherries. 

Prepare and mix the materials as described above. Before adding the 
preserved cherries cut them in halves, but do not chop them. Fill each 
frame, drop on a piece of cherry and some shredded cocoanut, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Small Madeira Cakes 

Small Madeira cakes (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 1, 
32), or, as they are usually named, lu7iclt cakes, sell well. The following is 
a good mixture: — 

1 lb. butter. 

1;^ lb. castor sugar. Small Lunch or 

n n xj Madeira Cakes. 

2 lb. flour. 

2 lb. eggs. 

Zest of 2 lemons. 

As an alternative this mixture may be used: — 

I lb. butter substitute. 

1| lb. castor sugar. 

2| lb. strong flour. 

6 eggs. 

5 gills milk. 

1 oz. cream of tartar. 

^ oz. bicarbonate of soda. 

Essence of lemon and egg colour. 

Prepare the ingredients and mix all together in the usual way for cakes. 
Bake in round shallow papered hoops, with a small piece of citron peel on 
the top of each cake. The second mixture is the cheaper, and will return 
a fair profit if made in hoops 3 in. diameter and Ij in. deep, and sold at 
Id. each. 

Queen or Wine Cakes 

Small queen cakes (see Plate, Chemically Aerated Goods, Nos. 5, 8) 
may be made from either of the mixings used for small Madeira cakes. 
These are generally baked in crimp patty pans 2| in. to 
3 in. diameter, with a few currants sprinkled on top. There 
is no need to beat in the flour in these mixtures. If this is thoroughly 
mixed in with other ingredients, a smooth clear batter will be obtained. 
These cakes when baked in a hot oven will come up well in the centre, with 
full head showing on each. 

Vol. I. 42 



326 CHEMICALLY AERATED GOODS 

Another recipe for queen or wine cakes is as follows: — 

12 lb. soft flour. 
Wine Cakes. 5| lb. castor sugar. 

3 oz. bicarbonate of soda. 

6 oz. cream of tartar. 

I oz. ammonium carbonate. 

24 eggs. 

3 lb. neutral fat. 

3 qt. milk. 

Ton'ENHAM Cake 

It sometimes happens that a large number of pieces of cheap cake 

are required at very short notice for such functions as children's treats or 

_ . ^ , tea meetings, and in such circumstances it may be almost 
Tottenham Cake. . ., i i p i 

impossible to prepare some thousands oi buns or small 

cakes. Resort is then had to cheap sheet cake, which is easily made 

and looks large at the price at which it is sold. The cheapest cake of 

this sort that may still give entire satisfaction is that generally called 

Tottenham cake. For this the following ingredients may be used: — 

12^ lb. soft flour. 

2\ lb. lard. 

2\ lb. soft sugar. 

2 lb. currants. 

I lb. orange peel chopped fine. 

3 oz. bicarbonate of soda. 
6 oz. cream of tartar. 

\ oz. essence of lemon. 
3 qt. milk. 

These materials are made into a soft dough in the usual way, and then 
spread on baking sheets with edges all round about IJ in. deep. The 
sheets should be greased, and then have a sheet of bakehouse paper spread 
on the bottom. The sheets, after smoothing on top with a little milk, 

^ . „, should lie for about ten or fifteen minutes to lose their 

Papering Sheets. i i i • 

toughness. Ihey are then baked in an oven at a tem- 
perature of about 430° to 440° F. The paper on the bottom facilitates 
the easy removal of the sheets from the tins. After cooling they are 
thinly iced over with water icing made with pulverized or second-grade 
icing sugar and hot water into a thick paste, and flavoured with a few 
drops of peppermint. The cakes are then cut up, generally into three- 
cornered pieces of any size desired. This cake sells well, when freshly made, 
in the vicinity of schools or factories. 

Loch Katrine Cake 

A richer and higher-class sheet, which was at one time a great favourite 
in Scotland, is called Loch Katrine cake. For this the baking sheet is first 



SMALL CHEMICALLY AERATED CAKES 327 

of all covered with a thin and not over rich short paste made with 2 lb. flour, 

8 oz. lard, 1 oz. sugar, and about 3 gills water. This is pinned Loch Katrine 

out or rolled out on a biscuit machine to about | in. thick, Cakes. 

and broad enough to cover completely the bottom of the baking sheet, 

which has previously been slightly greased. This sheet of paste is then 

washed over well with water, and on the top of it while wet is spread 

a dry mixture consisting of 2 lb. currants, 1 lb. cake crumbs, and | oz. 

mixed spice. After spreading on the wet paste this mixture is further 

moistened on top by being well splashed with water. On Spiced Crumb 

the top of this a cake mixture about f in. thick is spread. Mixture. 

This cake consists of 12 oz. butter, 12 oz. sugar, 5 eggs, and 2 lb. of flour, 

through which \ oz. bicarbonate of soda and h oz. cream of tartar have 

been well sifted. The butter and sugar are creamed up in the usual way, 

the eggs added, then the flour, and about three-quarters of a pint of milk 

is stirred in. This cake is baked in a moderate oven, and when cold is 

iced over with royal icing — made with white of egg and icing sugar, — and 

before it dries some red cochineal or other red colouring is 

11 ■-,• ii 1 • !•(• 1 1 Royal Icing, 

sparked on to it in spots, by drawing a knire along the 

edge of a hard brush containing the colour. The cake must be cut 

before the icing sets, with a sharp knife kept wetted. When properly 

made and neatly cut in three-cornered pieces this kind of cake will sell 

well in the shop. 

Ginger Cake 

Another good selling article, called a ginger cake, is made thus: — 

2 lb. flour. 

^ lb. lard. Small Ginger 

1 lb. butter. ^^*'^^- 
1| lb. golden syrup. 

7 large eggs. 

2 oz. powder. 

^ oz. mixed spice. 
^ oz. ground ginger. 
6 oz. preserved ginger. 
Split almonds. 

These cakes should be baked at a moderate temperature (about 400° F.), 
so that they may rise steadily during baking, and not flow over the sides 
of the pans, nor sink in the middle when baked. Mix the cool Oven for 
ingredients together as for small Madeiras, working in the Syrup Mixtures, 
syrup when adding the flour. Mix in also some small pieces of preserved 
ginger. Use crimp patty pans 2f in. in diameter and 1 in. deep. Grease 
the shapes with clarified butter, dust with flour, and place three split 
almonds in each shape before putting in the cake mixture. Three-quarters 
till each from a forcing-bag. When baked turn upside down upon a M'ire 
tray. The almonds should be laid in to show clearly on the cakes when 
turned out of the moulds. 



328 ICINGS AND SYRUPS 

The same cake can be made in baton form thus. Prepare the mixture 

with half the quantity of powder that is given for ginger cakes, and bake 

„ in a shallow wooden frame to have the cake 1 in. thick when 

Ginger Batons. , . , ..., ,. , .,, , . . 

baked. When cold wash over with water icmg, cut into 

batons 2 J by 1| in., and finish by placing on each a small piece of 

preserved ginger. 

Another kind of cake may be made up from this recipe. Line some 

plain, cup-shaped patty pans with short paste (see recipe No. 2, p. 337), 

three-parts fill each with the mixture, and when baked wash over with 

water icing flavoured with part of the syrup' from the preserved ginger. 

These cakes are all sold at Id. each. 

Honey Cakes 

Small honey cakes are made from the same mixture as above, but 
in moulds not quite so large. When baked they are turned upside down 
Small Honey upon a wire tray. A little pink fondant is piped on the top 
Cakes. of each cake, and on this is placed a small piece of bright- 

coloured cherry cut out with a ^-in. plain cutter. In making up these 
Finishing cakes use half honey with the syrup, and leave out the pre- 

Honey Cakes, served and powdered ginger. These cakes will retain their 
moisture for several days when carefully baked, and as they should be of 
a good colour, it is not advisable to use cheap dark syrup. 



CHAPTER LVIII 

THE PREPARATION AND USE OF FONDANT 

Fondant has already been referred to, and will be still more frequently 
mentioned in subsequent chapters, as a covering for many small and large 
.. , pastries, especially those of the Genoese class. It is therefore 
Making desirable, before proceeding further, to give instructions for 

Fondant. preparing this and other icings in common use. The utensils 

required for making fondant are a copper or brass preserving pan, four 
quite straight steel bars, a large wood spatula with copper or steel 
head if possible, and a marble or slate slab. Many confectioners use 
factory-made fondant. This is useful for some purposes, but where the 
craftsman has the convenience and time it is better that he should make it 
himself. The cost of material is very small, and that made by the con- 
fectioner will contain less glucose than most of the fondant that is factory- 
made. Glucose is used to prevent too rapid crystallization of the sugar, 
Wh F ndant ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^ itself is nearly non-crystallizable, no more than 
is sometimes a certain quantity may be boiled with the sugar. When this 
°"^ ■ is added to the fondant in large proportion, it is mixed in 

while the syrup is being creamed in the machine. This is what makes 



THE PREPARATION AND USE OF FONDANT 329 

some fondant tough, and when this sort is re-warmed for covering purposes 
it requires an extra quantity of stock syrup to reduce it to the right 
consistency. In the place of glucose, cream of tartar may be used in the 
proportion of I oz. to each 18 lb. of lump sugar. This ^^^ ^^ Cream 
serves the same purpose as the glucose, by preventing the of Tartar in 
sugar from graining when boiled under proper conditions. °" ^"*" 
It really changes some of the cane sugar into invert sugar, or, speaking 
generally, into glucose. 

The main purpose, however, in adding glucose in many cases is to 
cheapen the fondant. Its greatest virtue consists in the effect it has in 
giving a rich gloss to the icing. Cream of tartar is ^j^ Glucose 
oftener added to fondant used for the preparation of small is used in 
sweets (fondants); also for centres specially prepared for °" ^"*' 
chocolate covering. This fondant is firmer than that made with glucose, 
but not tough, and it readily becomes soft when pressed between the 
fingers. In theory, fondant is sugar dissolved in water, and Theory of 
recrystallized. These crystals in carefully prepared fondant Fondant- 
should be very tine, and not perceptible to the naked eye. It "^^ ^"^" 
is these very fine crystals that give the sheen to the icing, but when 
they are large the sugar dries with a dull appearance. 

For ordinary fondant, weigh into a copper bowl 18 lb. of lump sugar; 
add 2 qt. and | pt. of water, and place over a steady fire. While this 
is warming, break every particle of sugar by stirring, and have Recipe for 
the syrup quite clear before it is allowed to boil. If this Fondant, 
precaution is not taken, and the sugar, being partly dissolved, is allowed 
to boil, these pieces will not dissolve readily, and will eventually cause 
the whole mass of syrup to grain. The reason of this is j^ r 

that in the dense syrup the large pieces are more likely Lumps or 
to accumulate fresh crystals about them than to break ^^^^^ Crystals, 
down, as the syrup after a little boiling becomes in part supersaturated, 
and in this state it is a well-known phenomenon that solid particles, 
especially of the substance in solution, very readily produce a sudden 
crystallization of the whole. 

When in doubt as to whether the syrup is ready for boiling, especially 
if it is required for the best work, strain it through a fine wire or hair 
sieve. As soon as this is ready, wash down the sides straining Syrup 
of the pan with a splash brush dipped in cold water, ^°' Fondant, 
remove the scum, and allow the syrup to boil as quickly as possible. 
Boiling over a slow fire will spoil the colour of the sugar. Stand a 
sugar thermometer in the pan, and when this shows a Bad Colour and 
temperature of 235° F. drop into the boiling syrup 3 lb. ^^^ Cause, 
of liquid glucose. Continue the boiling until a temperature of 245° F. 
is reached. Remove at once from the stove and pour the sugar on the 
marble slab, which has been previously splashed with cold Temperature 
water, and on which four steel bars | in. thick and 30 in. ^°^ Fondant, 
long have been placed in position to form a square. Splash the suo-ar 




330 ICINGS AND SYRUPS 

with cold water, and let it lie for at least two hours without being dis- 
turbed. Sugar that is hot will crystallize quickly, and the crystals will 
Rubbing or ^® large, which renders the fondant useless for the purpose 
Creaming required. For this reason better results are obtained by 
Fon ant. allowing it to remain undisturbed until cold; in this con- 
dition more labour is necessary to cream the sugar, as it will crystallize 
slowly, but better fondant is obtained at the finish. For creaming 
use a spatula, with copper head if possible; if not, an ordinary long 
wooden spatula will answer the purpose. Turn the sugar backwards and 
forwards, leaving no part untouched, until the whole mass becomes white 
and sets quite firm in a heap on the slab. Cover with a damp cloth, 
and allow it to lie for one hour; then remove and store in a covered pan. 
This fondant should be soft, of a creamy or easily soluble nature, and 
How to Test y^^ ^^^ sticky. This may be tested by rolling a very small 
Finished piece between the thumb and forefinger. If no sugar ther- 

mometer is available there are two other methods of testing 
the sugar as to its readiness while boiling. One is by testing with the 
fingers. For this purpose, 
take a little of the hot syrup 
Testing Degrees OUt of the 
of Sugar-boiling, p^n with two 

fingers which have just been Fig. 31.— wire for Sugar-testing 

wetted in water, dip the fingers 

with the sugar quickly back into the water, and the syrup, if thick enough, 
Soft Ball will cling to them, and is easily shaped into a small ball. This 
Degree. degree is known as the soft ball. Where one is afraid to use the 
fingexs a small spoon may be used, but it is not so effective. The other 
method is more simple. Take a thin piece of wire curled over several 
Full Feather times at one end (fig. 31), dip this into the hot syrup, and 
Degree. raise quickly from the pan; if the sugar is ready for pouring 

out on to the slab, this may be blown off from the wire in long threads. 
This is known as the full feather degree, and is equal to the soft ball, 
245° F. 

Sometimes fondant is known to ferment when kept in stock. This 
may be the result of the syrup not having boiled to a high enough 
temperature, or to the addition of too much water from some source or 
other. It is not advisable to pour hot syrup upon a warm slab, as this 
Cooling Slab will cause it to hold the heat much longer than it should 
for Fondant. ^q^ ^nd may eventually produce graining, and it would then 
be useless for fondant-making, and could only be used for thinning down 
with extra water to make stock syrup. During hot weather, where 
Uses for Spoiled there are no means of cooling the slab, such as are 
Fondant. obtained in some sweet-factories by having a supply of 

cold water circulating underneath, a piece of block ice may be placed 
on during the time the sugar is boiling. 

Re- warming fondant for covering pastries is an operation as important 



FORMER PRESIDENTS, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 
OF MASTER BAKERS 

William Roff, born in Bedford in 1841, was for some time in 
the milling business. He succeeded his father in a baking business 
in his native town, and ultimately became the leading baker, con- 
fectioner, and caterer in the county. He was President of the 
National Association in 1897-8. He took an active interest in 
local and political affairs, and was for many years on the local 
Town Council and the County Council. He retired from business 
in 1901, and devotes his leisure to travel. 

George Winn, born at Friskney, Lincolnshire, in 1837, served 
his apprenticeship at Wainfleet, and started on his own account 
at Hull in 1864. He took a great interest in the charitable and 
philanthropic institutions of that city. He was President of the 
National Association in 1899. He died in 1905. 

John Humphrey, born at Honiton, Devon, in 1839, served his 
apprenticeship to baking in Exeter, and was in business in his 
native county before starting in London (Chelsea) in 1867. He 
was chairman of the Master Bakers' Pension and Almshouse Society 
in 1 88 1, of the London Master Bakers' Charities in 1897, President 
of the London Protection Society in 1897, and of the National 
Association in 1902. He has been for many years on his local 
Board of Guardians and Council, and is a member of the Bakers' 
Company and a freeman of the City of London. 

James H. Morrison, bom in Lanarkshire in 1850, gained 
extensive experience as a baker on shipboard and in Australia, 
America, '&c., and afterwards had a large business at Forest Gate, 
London. He is now manager of the largest bakery in Liverpool. 
He takes a great interest in technical education, and has personally 
conducted very successful classes at Hull. He was President o\ 
the National Association in 1904. 




WILLIAM ROFF 

(Bedford) 



GEORGE WINN 
(Hull) 




JOHN HUMPHREY 

(London) 



JAMES H. MORRISON 

(Liverpool) 



FORMER PRESIDENTS, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER BAKERS 



THE PREPAKATION AND USE OF FONDANT 



331 



as the making. In the best circumstances the sugar on fancy goods is 
quickly affected by the atmosphere, and will not keep the why Fondant 
gloss longer than a few days, especially if the air is very becomes Dull, 
moist; but if it is overheated, this gloss will disappear within a few 
hours after the goods are covered. Prepare the fondant for covering 
purposes by warming the quantity required in a small Effects of 
saucepan over the stove in a shallow pan of hot water. Stir Overheating, 
with a wooden spatula or spoon, and heat to a temperature of 80° 
to 85° F. If too firm to run smooth readily, reduce to the Temperature 
consistency required by adding some stock syrup, then re- for Masking 
move from the hot water and use at once. The sugar must °" *"*' 
not be beaten while warming. Careful stirring will prevent air from being 
taken in. 

Where the fondant is prepared for covering the tops of large cakes, 
such as Christmas and birthday cakes, it should be heated to a tempera- 
ture of at least 90° F. This sugar will set firmer, and is Qe^tig Treat- 
in better condition to receive decoration with glac^ royal ment while 
or mixed fruits. Fondant that has been made weak with arming, 
syrup should not be used for this purpose, owing to its tendency 
within a few hours after covering to shrink on the cake pondant for 
and become unsightly. On account of the royal icing dry- the Tops of 
ing so hard, fondant is used for covering the tops of these ^^^^ * *^^' 
cakes, and it suits exceedingly well for cakes that have a fairly quick 
sale. Another icing, which sets firmer but eats soft, is Soft-eating Fon- 
made by mixing with 1 lb. of warm fondant 3 dessert- '^^^^ ^°^ Cakes, 
spoonfuls of very light glace royal made with white of eggs and icing 
sugar only. 

Many very nice shades of colour may be made for 
covering decorated pastries by proper additions to the 
fondant. Only those colours that are harmless Colour for 
should be used. While bright they should not Fondant, 
be glaring. They should not look dull, and all shades that 
have the reputation of being poisonous should be avoided; 
in particular, deep greens and blues should not be used. 
For commercial purposes, the confectioner has only a very 
small choice of colours, and goods that are highly coloured 
are obnoxious, and find no sale. Formerly he had to rely 
upon vegetable colours; but in recent years the range has 
been very much widened by harmless colours Daylight for 
from artificial sources. In mixing these it is Colours, 
always advisable to do the work by daylight, as the shades 
of colour are deceptive when made up by gaslight. Where 
this is not practicable a dropping bottle (fig. 32) containing 
the liquid colour should be used; it will be found effective 
as a means of adding the colouring matter in very small increments at 
once, so preventing an overdose. As the same pans are generally used 




Fig. 32.— Dropping 
Bottle for Fondant 



332 ICINGS AND SYEUPS 



for warming the fondant, the strength of the colour may be first ascer- 
tained by natural light, and an account kept of the number 
Expedient to„- j>i- .-,, 

secure Safety ot drops oi Colouring necessary to give the sugar a delicate 
with Artificial j^jjj^. ^j^gj^ jjj gaslight the same number of drops to the 
same quantity of fondant should produce the same shade. 
Cheap vivid colours should be avoided. Many of these dry in several 

-, , strange shades, quite unfit for goods that are to be eaten. 

Cheap Colours. . , , „ , 

As stated above, very tew colours are needed, and a good 

display of choice, attractive, and eatable pastries may be made up and 
decorated with fondant, neatness of finish being of much greater im- 
portance than much colouring. 

When possible it is advisable to flavour fondant with liqueurs or 
fruit essences, or with orange- and rose-flower waters. From the latter 
Flavourings a very delicate flavour is obtained. Orange-flower water is 
for Fondant. useful also for other kinds of confectionery. Vanilla, lemon 
and orange zest, coflee, and chocolate are also all popular flavouring agents. 

Where several kinds of coloured fondant are used every day it is 
better, for several reasons, to keep a separate pan for each colour. When 
Separate Pans for finished with, if sugar is left in the pan, the sides should 
each Coloured be scraped down and the pan stored in a damp or cool 
on ant. cellar until required again. When the fondant is allowed 

to dry on the sides of the pan it soon becomes very hard; and during 
re -warming these pieces are worked into the soft sugar, making the 
To prevent goods all lumpy on the surface. The few moments spent in 
Waste. attending to this matter will save much sugar, which would 

otherwise be wasted, especially if the fondant is required for piping. 

The following are a variety of colours and flavours which may easily 
be produced with fondant, and give an attractive display to shop goods. 
Suitable Colours White, flavoured with maraschino or vanilla or rose water, 
and Flavours. Pink, coloured with carmine, flavoured with essence of 
strawberry, rose water, or noyau. Lemon yellow, coloured with yellow 
paste ("Breton"), flavoured with lemon zest dissolved in warm syrup, or 
with essence of pineapple. Pale orange, coloured with carmine and 
yellow colour, flavoured with zest of orange or cura^oa. Pale green, 
coloured with green paste (" Breton"), or apple-green mixed with yellow, 
flavoured with orange -flower water and kirschwasser mixed together, 
or with noyau and essence of almonds. Coffee, flavoured with strong 
infusion of coflee essence, and coloured with caramel colour ("Black Jack"; 
see p. 321), which will be improved by adding essence of vanilla to the 
coflee. By mixing with the fondant in certain proportions a mixture of 
Blending i"ed and blue colours, three different shades of colour may be 
Colours. obtained, namely, mauve, heliotrope, and violet. These may be 
flavoured with essence of violet or heliotrope, and used for exhibition 
purposes, but the confectioner for everyday shop trade has quite enough 
of the more popular colours without using these. Chocolate colour of any 
desired shade may be obtained by mixing red and green. 



THE PEEPARATION AND USE OF FONDANT 333 

Chocolate fondant is in greater demand than most others, and is more 
difficult to make. It is necessary to warm the fondant carefully before 
mixing the cocoa with it, but the latter, owing to the large Mixing Cocoa 
quantity of fat contained in it, must be slowly melted at ^'^^ Fondant, 
a low temperature. Keep a small pan specially for the cocoa. To prepare 
it for fondant, cut off' from a piece of unsweetened block cocoa the quantity 
required; place in the pan, and stand this in a warm drying cupboard 
to dissolve. While warming the fondant add enough cocoa ^ siting cocoa 
to flavour, also to give the icing a dark-reddish colour at a Low 
(not black). Add a few drops o£ carmine and a little emperature. 
vanilla essence. When the pastries are iced over, stand these on the 
draining wire for a few moments in the drying oven to set the sugar. 
Chocolate fondant to keep in stock may be made by preparing a batch 
of fondant with 18 lb. of sugar, adding sufficient caramel colouring while 
this is boiling on the stove to give the sugar a brown stock Chocolate 
colour. Two vanilla pods, if boiled with this, will improve Fondant, 
the flavour. The beans should be removed as soon as the syrup is ready 
for pouring on the slab. Allow the sugar to lie the usual time, begin 
to cream this, and while so doing work in 4| lb. of melted unsweetened 
cocoa. When cold, store in the coolest part of the bakery, and keep 
covered with a damp cloth. 

In many shops no more than three colours are used for fondant work, 
and the confectioner has to content himsdf with covering his fancies with 
white, pink, and chocolate. If a separate pan is not kept Three Favourite 
for each kind of fondant, the rule is to finish all the goods Colours, 
needing white fondant first, then the pink, and last of all the chocolate. 
In this way the fondant used for the chocolate, or part of ^j^ Chocolat 
it, is re-warmed several times, and as a result it very Fondant is fre- 
quickly loses gloss owing to the sugar graining. To avoid ^l"*'""^ ^"^^• 
this it is necessary, in the first instance, to warm only enough for the first 
colours, and to use fresh fondant for the chocolate. 




Fig. 33.— Draining Wire and Tray 

To save waste, and have a better finish on the iced pastries, it is better 
and more economical to use draining wires and trays for this purpose 
(fig. 33). The wires are made in all sizes, with feet stand- Draining Wires 
ing 1^ in. high. These stand upon tin trays, which are ^"'^ Trays, 
turned up at the sides. As soon as the goods are covered with fondant 
they should be placed upon the wire tray. If this is done there is less 

Vol. I. 43 



334 ICINGS AND SYRUPS 

danger of cake crumbs mixing with the fondant dripping. The dripping 
Use for Fondant may be gathered up and returned to the pan. If several 
Drippings. colours are mixed together, this may be used for making 

chocolate fondant, or made into a syrup and used for other puiposes. 



CHAPTER LIX 

WATER ICING AND FEUIT SYRUPS 

Water icing is made by mixing together 1 pt. of syrup and enough 
icing sugar, about 6 lb., to make a covering of the same consistency as 
To prepare fondant. Warm over a stove as for fondant, beat well 
Water Icing, together, and before using stir in two large tablespoonfuls 
of liquid glucose and the juice of one lemon or a few drops of citric acid. 
This icing is very good, but is not so satisfactory as fondant. It is more 
expensive to prepare, and is not so mellow in the eating. When working 
with this icing, warm enough to be used at one turn; for if re- warmed 
several times the sugar will dry very hard, and syrup will then be needed 
to thin it down. Water icing may be coloured in the same way as fondant 
by adding a few drops of Breton colouring paste thinned with stock syrup. 

Cheap water icing, such as generally used for covering low-priced 
Cheap Water articles like slab cakes, is made by mixing together in the 
^^^^S- cake machine warm water, cheap pulverized sugar, with a 

little glucose, and citric or tartaric acid. This is thoroughly mixed before 
being used. 

The syrup referred to for adding to fondant, and for preparing the best 
water icing, is made by boiling together for a few minutes 3 lb. of lump 
To prepare sugar and 1 qt. of water. Weigh the sugar into a copper 

Simple Syrup, bowl, add the water, place over the stove, and quickly break 
the sugar with a wooden spoon. Wash down the sides of the pan, bring 
to the boil, and remove what scum rises to the top. Pour in h pt. of 
cold water, and a few drops of citric acid ; this will check the syrup from 
boiling for a few moments and throw up any dirt that may still be in the 
sugar. Remove this extra scum, and when the syrup has boiled for a few 
moments take it from the stove. When quite cold, pass it through a tammy 
cloth or hair sieve into a clean vessel. This is known as stock or simple 
When Syrup syrup, and is used in several substances, including water ices, 
is too Thick, lemonade and orangeade, and fruit syrups generally. This 
syrup is of sufficient density for the purpose required; if made thick by 
using less water, it will quickly crystallize in the vessel in which it is 
stored. This should be made in large quantity, and for convenience in 
use it should be kept in a large zinc tank to which a tap is fixed. 

' Elder-flower syrup is very useful to the confectioner who has to make 
various kinds of fancy confectionery, and is also required in the pre- 



WATER ICING AND FRUIT SYRUPS 335 

parntion of ices and entremets. The flower essence may be obtained from 
the chemist, hut by purchasing the flowers in the month of Eider-flower 
June the confectioner can make his stock of syrup last the Syrup. 
year round. As with many other things that were formerly made by the 
confectioner, the preparation of this syrup is now usually left to others. 
Since, however, it is so useful for confectionery purposes, and is not difficult 
to prepare, instructions are here given for its manufacture. Purchase the 
quantity of flowers required quite fresh, and remove from these any dust 
that may be on them, washing with cold water through a sieve. The next 
process is to place the flowers in boiling water and allow the whole to boil 
for a few moments. Remove from the stove, and when cold strain the liquor 
through a tammy cloth. Allow this to remain until the next day, when 
the clear liquor should be measured ofl" into a preserving-pan. Some sedi- 
ment will be found at the bottom of the pan, which should not be used. 
To every quart of liquor add 3| lb. of lump sugar, and bring all to the boil 
as for ordinary syrup. This will then be ready for use, or it may be stored 
in glass bottles in the following manner. Take some clean Bottling the 
dry bottles, and fill them with the syrup to within 2 in. of Syrup to Keep, 
the top. Stand in a large shallow pan of cold water covering three-parts 
of the bottle. Bring the water to the boil, remove the bottles from the 
stove, and cork them. Fasten the corks in with string, and Corking and 
seal the tops with sealing-wax, and when cold store away in Sealing. 
a cool cellar. The corks should be soaked for some time in cold water 
before using, and driven tight in the bottles. The sealing-wax is only 
necessary where old corks are used. 

Orange syrup is made by adding the zest of eight oranges to 1 qt. of 
hot stock syrup. Allow this to remain for five minutes; 
then strain the syrup through a tammy cloth, and add the ^^^^' 

clear juice of the fruit, a little citric acid, and a few drops of carmine. 
Lemon syrup is made in exactly the same way; only use the zest 

and iuice of ten lemons, and a little citric acid and yellow 

, . Lemon Syrup, 

colouring. 

Formerly in some confectionery establishments the confectioner had to 




Fig. 34.— Lemon Zest-scraper 

use a broken piece of lump sugar to remove the zest from the fruit. The 

fruit was rubbed on the sugar until this had absorbed the 

oil which is contained in the tiny cells found on the surface 

of the skin. The soaked sugar was then scraped off", containing the full 

flavour of the fruit, as well as its rich colour. As this sugar is not to be 

had now for the purpose mentioned, the next best method of removing the 

zest is by using a small French zest -scraper, as shown in fig. 34. This 



336 



PASTES AND PASTRIES 



removes the zest in fine shreds, and is the best utensil for the purpose. 
Lemon- For removing the juice from the fruit a lemon-squeezer (fig. 35) 
squeezer, jg required. The writer has used both the 
tools here referred to for several years, and has found 
them to give more satisfaction than many more elaborate 
and expensive utensils. The squeezer is made of box- 
wood, and is pressed into the cut fruit, held in the left 
hand, by working and twisting round, until the juice 
and pulp are entirely removed. 

It is not essential to use clean sugars for syrups. 
Sometimes sugar by being kept in stock for a length 
To Clarify of time becomes lumpy, and not over-clean; 
Dirty Sugar, ^^ig should not be SO, but it too often 
happens in bakeries. Such sugar may be used for the 
syrup after clarifying it with white of egg. Warm the 
sugar and water over the fire until the former is dis- 
solved; then to every 3 lb. of sugar add 1 pt. of water 
mixed with the white and the shells of two eggs. Bring 
all to the boil, and let it simmer gently for one hour, 
remove from the stove, and when cold pass the syrup 
through a tammy cloth. The extra water is necessary 
when clarifying the syrup; otherwise this would be too pjg 35._Leinon- 

thick and would not clear. squeezer 




CHAPTER LX 



SHORT PASTE AND SHORT PASTE TARTS 



When carefully made, short paste should not be in the least leathery or 
tough. For the best class of work good butter is the proper shortening 
agent to use, but as it is not always possible to obtain a price for the goods 
that will all6w a fair profit when butter is employed, a good mixture or 
margarine may take its place. In cold weather the general practice is to 
Warm and ^"^^ ^^^ butter or margarine well into the flour, taking care. 

Cold Weather however, not to mash it into greasy cakes or lumps. In 
warm weather, especially if the fat used is at all soft, it is 
better to place the fat in the bay, with such other ingredients as eggs and 
sugar if these are used, and to mix these well before adding the flour. The 
moistening agent to use depends on the kind of paste wanted. For some 
purposes all water is sufficient, for others a few eggs are needed, whilst 
for high-class goods eggs alone are used to make dough. In making dough 
it is not necessary to rub it so hard and so much as to produce greasiness. 
The ingredients should first be mixed lightly, then made smooth and clear 
by pinching. It is quite a common fault to find short paste very greasy. ' 



SHOET PASTE AND SHORT PASTE TAKTS 337 

111 many cases this is clue entirely to the paste being doughed with much 
too small a quantity of water. Owing to the large amount why Paste is 
of fat used, it is quite possible to make a kind of dough Often Greasy, 
with scarcely any water at all, but this will hardly stick together when the 
attempt is made to pin it out; yet the dough, especially in warm weather, 
may not appear to be unduly stiif. When dough is in this condition it is 
extremely hard to mix more water with it to make it workable. It is 
better therefore on all occasions to measure the necessary amount of water, 
and to use that in warm weather as well as in cold, for it is unsafe in the 
former to depend on the feel of the dough while it is being made, as to the 
stiffness it ought to be. 

Short paste is now very much used for purposes for which puff paste 
was formerly thought necessary. This substitution is extremely short Paste 
common in those goods of the tart class which consist of a should Rest, 
paste bottom with a filling of some other sort. Short paste is better to 
lie a considerable time before use; it is in fact generally convenient to 
make it at night to be worked up in the morning. 

Five recipes are here given for short paste, which will all be found 
reliable, and suitable for first- and second-class trade. No. 1 "paste con- 
sists of: 

4 lb. medium strong flour. 

2 lb. butter. Rich Short 

10 egg yolks. P^"*^' No- I- 

Al)Out 4 gills Avater. 

Rub the butter into the sifted flour; make a bay; add the yolks and 
the water. Then mix all together. Store the paste in a cool place for an 
hour or two. This paste is very suitable for rich pies. 

lYo. ^ is a sweet paste made as follows: — 

2 lb. flour. 

1^ lb. butter. Sweet Paste, No. 2. 

3 oz. castor sugar. 



9 



eirs 



2 gills water. 

No. 3 is slightly cheaper and consists of — 

2 lb. flour. \ lb. castor sugar. 

\ lb. lard. 2 eggs. Cheap Paste, No. 3. 

\ lb. butter. 2 gills water. 

No. 4 may be best described as common short paste, and is made with — 

3 lb. flour. 

I lb. lard. Common Paste, No. 4. 

I lb. castor sugar. 

1 oz. powder (No. 1). 

3J gills water. 



338 PASTES AND PASTRIES 



A short paste called Ge 
No. 5, and consists of — 


'man 'paste may for reference purposes be called 




21 lb. flour. 


German Dough 
or Paste, No. 5. 


l| lb. butter. 

6 oz. ground almonds. 




\ lb. sugar. 




4 yolks. 




4 eggs. 



About 1| gill water. 

Open Jam Tarts 

Among the uses to which short paste is specially adapted is the making 

of o-pen jam tarts (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries). These may be 

Open Jam made in oval or round patty pans, the former being much the 

Tarts. neater. For a good-class trade the pans should be rather small, 

as the large tarts appear common and coarse. The jam should be rather 

bright-coloured, and with some sorts it is necessary to thin slightly with 

a little water before tilling the tarts, or it may 

burn as they bake. Pin out the paste to \ in. 

thick, cut out with an oval cutter for oval tarts, 

.... _ or a round one for round sorts, 

Notchmg Tarts. ' 

then turn each piece over into 

a patty pan, and thumb up to obtain a border 
\ in. higher than the pan. Hold the paste with 
the thumb and finger of the right hand, and 
notch with the back of a small knife, drawing 
the knife towards you quite close to the finger 

Plain and holding the paste. While doing vi^. z^^Zv cmtev 

Double Notch, this ^j^aw the paste towards the 
centre of the tart. Double notching is done by working the knife back- 
wards and forwards through the paste. Prick the bottom of each tart with 
the point of the knife, then fill with jam, and bake in a hot oven. An- 
Centre Paste other method of making is to cut out the paste with a crimp 
on Jam. cutter (fig. 36), and thumb up before adding the jam. Two 

thin strings of paste 1 in. long are cut and laid crossways upon the jam. 
As an embellishment and for purposes of variety very small diamonds or 
rings of either short or pufi" paste may be baked separately on a clean tin, 
and one of these placed in the centre of each tart after the latter is baked. 
The contrast of the small piece of white paste on the bright-coloured jam 
looks rather well. 

It is better to use first-class jam for open tarts, making them smaller 
on that account. Jam that contains much glucose, or in which ingredients 
Why Jam have been used other than pure fruit, is almost certain to blacken 
Burns. jj^ ^j^g oven, or in the case of that made with glucose to be very 

tough and stringy when baked. This difficulty can be to some extent sur- 
mounted by diluting the jam with water and working it till all of one 




TYPES OF SALEABLE SHOP PASTRIES 




I, 14, French Pastries. 2, 10, Iced Madeira Tarts. 3, 8, Cheese Cakes. 4, 6, Jam Tartlets. 5, 9, Open 
Custard Tarts. 7, 19, 20, Fancy Cheese Cakes. 11, 23, Cream Slices. 12, Cream Horn. 13, Banbury 
Cake. 15, Turnover. 16, Piped Tartlet. 17, Congress Tart. 18, Vol au Vent. 21, Mille-feuille. 
22, Imperial Star. 24, Coventry Tart. 25, Sausage Roll. 26, Maid of Honour. 27, Stringed Tartlet. 
28, 30, Small Patties. 29, Jam Tart. 31, Conversation Tart. 32, Eccles Cake. 




TYPES OF SALEABLE SHOP PASTRIES 



SHOUT PASTE 'AND SHORT PASTE TARTS 339 

consistency before filling the tarts. While they are baking this water has 

to be driven off by the heat before the filling begins to darken or burn. 

This kind of jam invariably needs the addition of colouring matter when 

used for open tarts, but there is an advantage in the matter to brighten 

of brightness obtained, even when the best jam is used, by J^^- 

colouring a little. Jam manufacturers do not make any special efibrt at 

colouring, as that is not needed so much for domestic purposes, but what 

is quite suitable for table use is not quite so effective when it has to undergo 

a second cookingr, as in open tarts. In filling the tarts, too 

. . Filling Tarts, 

much care cannot be taken to place the jam properly in 

the centre, and to use only the correct quantity. The jam should have a 

margin of paste all round when baked, and it should not be boiled up to 

run over the side. 

Madkira Tarts 

Madeira tarts (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, Nos. 2, 10) have 
a short paste bottom, and for filling have the following mixture: — 

^ lb. butter. 

10 OZ. sugar. Madeira Tarts: 

p. First Method. 

5 eggs. 

I lb. flour. 

Zest of 2 oranges. 

A little cooking sherry. 

Line some round patty pans, 2 in. in diameter and 1^ in. deep, with thin 
pieces of short paste (No. 1) cut out with a crimp cutter. Prepare the 
filling by creaming the butter and sugar well together; beat in the eggs 
two at a time, and stir in the other ingredients. Fill a paper cornet or bag 
with greengage jam, and with this place a little in the centre of each tart; 
and on top of the jam, with a forcing-bag and a -|-in. plain tube, three- 
quarters fill each tart with the above mixture. Bake in a steady oven about 
420° F.; when cold, mask the tops with white fondant flavoured with sherry. 
Finish by placing a small round piece of angelica on the centre of each. 

Another variety of Madeira tarts has the following ingredients for 

filling: — 

1 lb. butter. 

^ lb. castor sugar. Madeira Tarts: 

/, ri Second Method. 

6 oz. flour. 

2 oz. ground almonds. 
5 eggs. 

-| lb. finely chopped citron peel. 

Prepare short-paste bottoms as before, and fill with the above mixture. 
When baked, dust lightly over with icing and vanilla sugars mixed 
together. Vanilla sugar is prepared by pounding together vanilla Vanilla 
beans in a mortar along with castor sugar, or grinding them Sugar, 
together in a mill, and then drying. The strength of the sugar will, of 
course, depend upon the quantity of vanilla beans in the mixture. 



340 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

A cheaper sort of Madeira tart may have the following mixture for 
filling: — 

6 oz. butter substitute. 
Cheap Madeira Tarts. 10 oz. castor sugar. 

1^ lb. flour. 

1^ oz. powder. 

2| gills milk. 

3 eggs. 

Egg colour and essence of lemon. 

Use large patty pans for these tarts, about 3 in. in diameter and 1^ in. 
deep. Place a spot of apricot jam in the centre of each paste case, and then 
three-parts fill each with the mixture given above. These are sent to the 
shop quite plain after baking, 

Victoria Tarts 
A variety called a Victoria tart is made from the following: — 

^ lb. cake crumbs. 
Victoria Tarts. ^ lb. bread crumbs. 

^ lb. ground almonds. 

5 yolks. 

About a gill of milk. 

^ lb. finely chopped lemon peel. 

Mix the dry ingredients together, with the yolks. and sufficient milk 

to make all into a paste of such consistency as will readily pass thr-ough 

a forcino:-baff. Line some small patty pans with No. 3 short 
Frangipane. , i , i • ^ i • , mi n^^ , 

paste, and cut out with a plam cutter, ihree-parts nil each 

with the above mixture, which is knowri^ as frangipane, and sprinkle a 

little shredded cocoanut on the top. Bake at a moderate temperature 

(about 400° F.). When cold, dust over with powdered cocoa and vanilla 

sugar mixed. Another method of finishing may be followed. Instead of 

spi-inkling cocoanut on the tarts before baking, have them quite plain; 

then when baked turn upside down and brush over with hot apricot jelly, 

and then roll each in turn on some roasted desiccated cocoanut. 

Cocoanut Tarts 

Cocoanut tarts are made as follows. Line some shallow 3i-in. patty 

pans with cheap short paste (No. 8). Place a little apple jam in the centre 

of each case, and then a little more than half-fill with 

No. 3 Madeira tart mixture. When cold, spread over 

each tart with a palette knife a thin layer of fondant or water icing, and 

sprinkle some shredded cocoanut on top. 

Congress Tarts 

Quite a popular cake in many localities is that known as a Congress 
tart (see Plate, ^I^LE able Shop Pastrifs, No. 17). This is made with the 
following ingr^elients: — 



SHORT PASTE AND SHORT PASTE TARTS 341 

2 lb. coarse-grained castor sugar. 

1 lb. ground almonds. Congress Tarts. 

12 egg whites. 

3 oz. ground rice. 

If this tart must be sold at a penny, it should be made in a small round 
patty pan 2 in. in diameter and 1 in. deep. Line the pans with No. 1 
short paste, or some pufF-paste trimmings, cut out with a crimp cutter. 
Place a small portion of raspberry jam in each case, and then three-parts 
fill with the almond mixture. Lay two thin strings of paste across the top 
of each tart, forming a cross, and dust with granulated sugar. Bake in a 
cool oven. To prepare the filling mix all the dry ingredients together, 
gradually adding the whites while mixing, and beat these up light with 
a spoon or spatula. These tarts should have a rich glossy surface when 
finished, the almond part having a honeycomb appearance, though without 
large cracks. When large cracks appear, the fault is due to the use of 
extra fine sugar, or they may be due to the paste being too stiff! They 
may also occur as the result of a skin forming before baking. 

Another and cheaper sort of Congress tart consists of the following: — 

1 lb. ground almonds. 

2f lb. coarse castor sugar. Cheap Congress Tarts. 

^ lb. ground rice. 

^ lb. cake crumbs. 

About 17 egg whites. 

A pinch of bicarbonate of soda. 

Essence of almonds. 

Line some shallow patty pans as before with cheap short paste, or pufF- 
paste trimmings; add a little jam in the centre, and fill with the above 
mixture. Short paste bottoms for these tarts do not eat so sodden as pufF 
paste usually does, where the filling is of such a soft nature; this fact must 
not be lost sight of. 

Almond Tarts 

Almond tarts are made up from either of the above mixings. Add no 
strings of paste to the filling before baking. When cold, brush hot apricot 
jelly over the top of each, and finish by placing a little 
green desiccated cocoanut on the centre of each tart. 

Duchess Tarts 
Duchess tarts are made from the following ingredients: — 
I lb. lard. 

^ lb. butter. Duchess Tarts. 

1^ lb. sugar. 
\ lb. ground almonds, 
f lb. cake crumbs. 
\ lb. ground rice. 

12 eggs. ^ 

Vanilla essence. ^ 

TOL. I %L 



342 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Line some oval patty pans, as for jam tarts, with sweet short paste, cut 
out with an oval crimp cutter. With a paper cornet place a little rasp- 
berry jam in the centre of each case, then three-parts fill with the above 
mixture, bake in a cool oven, and when cold dust over with icing sugar. 
Cream up the batter as for Madeira cake mixture. 



CHAPTER LXI 

PUFF PASTE 

At one time, except for goods made light by yeast, butter made up with 
flour in the form of pufF paste was the only sort of light pastry produced 
by the confectioner, and pufF paste was in consequence the basis of a great 
many confections which are now forgotten. 

The method of making in 1760 was not very much different from the 
present, as the following recipe taken from a work published at that date 
Old Method ^^o^s. " Take 1 lb. of fine flour, beat the white of egg to a 
of making strong froth, mix it with as much water as will make f lb. of 
u aste. Aquj. jjjj-Q a pretty stiff* paste, roll it out very thin, lay the 
third part of | lb. of butter in thin pieces, dredge it with part of the 
quarter of your flour left out for that purpose: roll it up tight, then with 
your paste pin roll it out again; do so until all your | lb. of butter and 
flour is done. It requires a quicker oven than crisp (short) paste." 

Puff' paste is less used now than formerly, but good and bright-looking 
puflf- paste goods still give character to the confectioner's window, and it 
is worth while to take special pains in its production. As in other goods 
the character of the flour used is a matter of very great importance. 
Best Flour for Strong American flour is not by itself suitable for this work, 
Puff Paste. jjQj. fQj. ^}jQ opposite reason is soft English wheat flour. Some 

prefer to use Hungarian only for this purpose, but even this in spite of its 
high price is sometimes too soft, and is better for the admixture of a little 
stronger flour. The top grades of some of the leading English mills meet 
the requirements admirably, and if properly handled make better paste 
than can be produced with Hungarian. 

The butter should be tough, and if a substitute is used that also 
should be tough in its nature, and not readily softened or melted by the 
Butter for heat of the bakery (see Chap. XLIII, Vol. I). When butter 
Paste. g^jj(j margarine are used together, it is better to mix these 

thoroughly beforehand into a homogeneous mass, and then weigh and use 
the required quantity as if it were one substance. It is usual, especially 
Reason for Using ^^ summer, to add a small quantity of cream of tartar 
Lemon Juice or or lemon juice to paste. The purpose of this addition is 
not, as generally stated, to harden the flour, but really to 
render its gluten more ductile, so that it will stretch rather than break as 



PUFF PASTE 343 

the paste is pinned out, or as it springs in the oven. The object of freeing 
the butter from water before using is to prevent the thin why Butter 
layers of dough from becoming water-sodden, and breaking '^ Dried, 
instead of remaining continuous, and so effectively separating the layers 
of butter from each other. 

Rich Puff Paste 

For rich pufF paste weigh down the following ingredients: Hungarian 
flour, 2 lb. ; firm, tough butter, 2 lbs. Sift the flour and rub into it 4 oz. 
of the butter. Make a bay; add the juice of half a lemon, 2 Rich Puff 
eggs, and about 3 gills of water. It is a good rule to have the Paste, 
dough about the same consistency as the butter is after being handled. 
Mix the dough containing this small quantity of butter thoroughly, quite 
clear and free from scraps, and slightly toughened. Allow this dough to 
lie for ten minutes; then pin out to about 15 in. square. Have the paste 
a little thicker in the centre than at the sides. Wash the butter if it is 
very salt, and thoroughly squeeze the excess water out of it. Treatment of 
Then form it into a square piece slightly smaller than the S^^* Butter, 
paste. Lay the butter on the paste, and fold over the ends of the latter 
to entirely cover up the butter. After lying a little to lose its springiness 
the paste is given a first turn. The mode is to pin it out Method of 
to a length of about 30 in. and a width of about 12 in. Turning Paste. 
The end farthest from the operator is then folded over so as to cover two- 
thirds of the paste. On the top of this the near end is then folded, and 
the paste firmly and smoothly but gently pinned out to about 1 in. thick. 
This constitutes one " turn ". 

For the second " turn ", which may be given immediately after the fil-st, 
turn the paste round half-way, and proceed as just described for the first. 
Cover this over with a damp cloth to prevent a skin from to keep from 
forming on the top, and store for thirty minutes, or longer Skinning, 
if convenient, in a cold part of the bakery. When it has been allowed 
to lie for the necessary time give it another two turns, vi v, r 
Repeat this process again after the paste has rested, Turns Necessary, 
making six turns in all. 

Three-quarter Paste 

Sometimes a puff" paste less rich is required; then what is called three- 
quarter paste is made. For this 12 oz. of butter to each pound of flour is 
used, and this paste requires only four, instead of six turns. Three-quarter 
as for the best pufi* paste. Another method of preparing puff* Paste, 
paste, generally referred to as the Scotch method, is as follows. Chop the 
butter into cubes of about f in. amongst the flour. Then with water 
make this mixture into dough; a little lemon juice or Scotch Method of 
cream of tartar is helpful with this sort also. The first Paste-making, 
two turns are done after it has rested for ten minutes, but it is better to 
squeeze with the rolling-pin in ridges rather than to pin out smooth in 



344 PASTES AND PASTEIES 

the usual way. The butter must not be chopped in too small, especially 
if it is at all soft. When paste is wanted in a hurry this is a very con- 
venient method of preparing it, and if care is taken very good results 
can be obtained. 

At times there is a good deal of trouble with paste. It may be harsh 
and dry and quite flavourless, owing to part of the butter having run out 
Cause of Harsh, of it during baking. There are several causes for this. 
Dry Paste. j^, may be due to bad handling when the dough is given 

the various turns. If the layers of dough between the layers of butter 
are broken, the paste will be close, and much of the butter will have 
Why Butter I'un out on the baking sheet. The same result may follow 
runs out. jf i\^q butter has been frozen hard and is then worked into the 
paste in a lumpy condition. This defect is very common when inferior 
margarine is used, or at least margarine containing an excessive quantity 
of stearin. 

Another defect that generally troubles the beginner is the drawn and 
unshapely appearance of the paste goods after they are baked. They seem 
What draws drawn or contracted, and are much smaller than when cut 
P^ste, out in the raw state. This generally arises from their being 

placed in the oven too soon after cutting out. After pufF-paste goods are 
placed on the baking sheets, they should be allowed to lie at least twenty 
minutes before baking. Bad shapes are also sometimes due to want of care 
in freeing the paste properly from the slab before starting to cut, as it 
inclines to cling after being rolled out, but the individual pieces spring into 
oval shapes as soon as they are cut and free. 

The number of turns a piece of paste requires depends on the nature 
Nature of ^^ ^^^® flour and of the butter. Tough flour and tough 

Butter and Flour butter may require six turns or more, whilst four turns 
affects Paste. ^^^^ ^^jg^^ ^^^ g^^^, ^^^^ -^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ j^ -^ ^^^.^gj.^ jf 

possible, when using fresh lots of flour or butter to bake one or two pieces 
as tests before cutting out the lot. 

During warm weather a stock of ice should be kept for the paste. 
This is necessary to keep it firm for pinning out; otherwise very indif- 
Use of Ice ferent results are likely to be obtained if the paste is soft, 
for Paste. It should not, however, be laid on the ice, as the bottom will 
become too firm to roll out. When the butter is of a very soft nature 
weigh off" the number of pieces required, and keep these in ice water until 
Keeping Butter the dough is to be mixed. It is also an advantage to use 
in Ice Water. [qq^ water for making the dough. It is almost unnecessary 
to say that in summer the coolest place in the bakery or out of it should be 
selected for working up paste goods, and a marble or slate slab should, if 
possible, be obtained. 

When paste goods are required first thing in the morning, it is an 
Making Dough advantage to have the paste made and given four turns on 
Overnight. the day before it is required, then given the remaining two 

turns in the morning and manipulated in the usual way. 



PUFF PASTE 345 

VOL-AU-VENT 

Amongst the most difficult pastries to prepare are Vol-au-vent Cases 
(see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 18). These are usually made 
to hold certain kinds of filling, and are served up as entree, vol-au-vent 
entremet, or savoury. Only the best puff paste should be Cases, 
used for this purpose. Pin out the paste to f in. thick, and, using a 
flat piece of zinc or tin for a shape, cut out with a small knife previously 
dipped in hot water. The shape may be round or oval and any size 
desired. Lay this piece of paste on cartridge paper, and place on a 
thick baking sheet — one that is not liable to turn up at the corners 
while in the oven. After the paste is cut out notch the sides with 
the back of a knife, and lay it in a cool part of the bakery to rest 
for twenty minutes and lose its spring. Wash over with egg; use of Hot 
dip the knife in hot water and mark out the centre, cutting Wet Knife, 
only a little into the surface, and bake in a medium hot oven, say about 
400^ F. It must be thoroughly baked. When baked remove the piece 
marked with the knife, and carefully hollow out the centre ready for 
filling. There is often some difficulty, in preparing these cases, to retain a 
good shape, and to make them of sufficient height for the purpose required. 
On some occasions vol-au-vent cases are made large enough to hold filling 
for ten persons, to be served up as one course. For these cases the paste 
must not be hurried, or they are likely to come up very poorly. 

Cutters are sometimes used for cutting out, but as these are liable 
to tear the paste on account of its thickness, or compress it unduly at 
the edges, the better plan is to lay a piece of card- Expedients to keep 
board or zinc of the required size upon the paste, and Cases Straight, 
to draw the knife through the paste while holding it close to the edge of 
the pattern. Deep hoops, or paper bands, or tin covers with a small hole 
cut at the top, are sometimes used to bake the paste in. When these 
are used they should be removed as soon as the paste is set sufficiently 
to bear touching. There are disadvantages in the use of these things, 
although they are useful for protecting the sides when there is a hot 
and cold side in the oven, and, where the paste is carefully prepared, 
the baking done on a small baking sheet should give the result desired. 

Paste Tartlets 

Tartlets are sometimes called Petit Vol-au-vent (see Plate, Saleable 
Shop Pastries, Nos. 4, 6). To prepare these, cut out the paste, about 
I in. thick, with a crimp-edged cutter, and when it is recovered paste 
from pinning out wash over with egg. Mark the centre with Tartlets, 
a round cutter and bake in a hot oven. When the tartlets are newly 
baked the marked centres are pressed in with the finger. Tartlets in 
thus making a receptacle for the jam. Other kinds of tart- Two Pieces, 
lets are prepared by laying a ring of puff paste on to a thin piece 



346 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

cut out with the same size of cutter. This method takes longer, and 
results in a very small saving of paste. 

When baked the tartlets are filled with any suitable jam, and a very 
small piece of shaped paste cooked separately is placed in the centre on 
Special Tins ^^e top of the jam. Plain patty pans raised in the centre 
for Tartlets, were in use some years ago for baking the paste in. The 
tartlets were turned upside down when baked, and were filled with bright- 
coloured jam and had rather a nice appearance. 

Petites Bouchees 

Petites Bouchees are prepared as for tartlets. They are cut out with 
„ . „ ^ , a small crimp cutter. After baking:, the centre of each case 

PctltCS BoUCilcCS* 

is hollowed out, and the cavity is filled with various kinds 
of patty meat, prepared from oysters, shrimps, &c. Small tops are made 
p tt F'lr ^^^ these by baking small pieces of thin paste cut out with a 
crimp cutter 1 in. in diameter. 



CHAPTER LXII 

PLAIN AND FANCY SHOP PASTRIES 

French Pastries 

The confections called French Pastries (see Plate, Saleable Shop 
Pastries, Nos. 1, 14) were quite common in this country about a hundred 
. years ago. Several names have at various times been given 
to these. They consist of two layers of paste sandwiched 
together with preserve. Pin out the paste to ^ in. thick and about 12 in. 
square. Fold over in three layers as when giving the paste one turn, and 
lightly roll out till it is | in. thick. Cut in long strips | in. thick and 
about 3 in. long, and place upon the baking sheet 1| in. apart, the cut side 
being next the tin. Partly bake in a hot oven, then dust with castor sugar, 
finish baking, and when cool sandwich together with jam. The top piece 
may be twisted in the centre, as soon as the paste is cut out. This twisted 
piece as top improves the appearance of the finished article. 

Cushions 

The pastries known by this name are made by cutting small pieces 
Puff -paste of paste 3| in. square, and folding the corners into the centre. 
Cushions. The paste is closed down with egg wash. When baked each 
corner is filled with jam. 

Imperial Stars 

These require a little more time in preparation than the usual sort of 
paste article, but repay the trouble by their superior appearance (see Plate, 



PLAIN AND FANCY SHOP PASTRIES 



347 



Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 22). Prepare squares of paste as cut 
out for cushion pastries; then with a knife previously • i <5t 

dipped in hot water make four incisions in each piece by 
cutting the paste at the corner to within | in. of the centre (fig. 37, 
stage 1). Brush over with a damp brush, and fold each other Filling for 
corner over to the centre (fig. 37, stages 2 and 3); lay this shaped Cushions, 
piece on a ring of short paste and bake in a hot oven. Fill in the centre 




btagc 1 



Stage 2 
Fig. 37.— Stages in Moulding an Imperial Star 



Stage ; 



with boiled custard or lemon curd, and decorate each corner with a little 

bright jam 

Turnovers 

These pastries are semicircular in shape when finished (see Plate, 
Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 15). They are cut out round with a crimp 
cutter, apple jam is placed in the centre, and the paste is Turnovers or 
folded over. Where the top layer of paste is brought only Apple Puffs, 
within ^ in. of the edge of the bottom, the turnover has a better appear- 
ance. Wash over with white of egg, dust with castor sugar, and splash 
with water before baking. They should spring high and open out on the 
cut edges of the paste when baked. 

Diamond Creams 

Pin out the paste to ^ in. thick, cut out with diamond -shaped cutter, 
wash with white of egg, dust with sugar, and bake in a hot oven. When 
cold split each in two pieces, and sandwich together with Diamond Creams, 
whipped cream. 

Royal Batons 

It is strange that so few of these pastries are to be seen. They look 
attractive and eat nice. The paste is cut in oblong pieces about 3 in. long 
and 1 in. wide and ^ in. thick. Over these is spread glace 
royal, and then fine chopped almonds are sprinkled on 
top. The icing may be spread on the paste in long strips with a palette 
knife, and the almonds sprinkled on, then the paste fingers cut with a wet 
knife. Allow to lie twenty minutes before baking. 



348 



PASTES AND PASTRIES 



Vanilla Pastries 

These present a showy appearance. They are made with a 3|-in. 

square piece of puff paste. When baked they are dusted with icing 
sugar, and the centre is filled with greengage jam. As 
fig. 38 shows, the paste is so cut that two opposite comers. 

are brought together, one overlapping the other. 



Vanilla Pastries. 



'i.< 


', <':'/'y///////'/'//^y/v/'/''/////////^/z^//^^^^^ 


\ 


\ 


'^ 




\ 






1 


















i, 
i. 




\ 1 1 








\| 









/ 


r - 














!55*^t^<:4iSi:!l35iy^^ 










^ 










1 




















1 






/ 




1 






^ 


/ 


1 




A 


/ 









stage S 



Stage 1 Stage 2 

Fig. 38. —Stages in Moulding a Vanilla Tart 

Sausage Rolls 

Pork sausage meat, rolled out in lengths of 3| in., is generally used 
for these rolls (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 25). Prepare 
s R 11 pieces of best pufF paste 3J to 4 in. square, wash over with 

water, lay on the piece of meat, fold over the paste to 
cover it entirely, and see that the closing is sealed. Wash over with 
^gg, and after glazing mark the top of each with three or four parallel 
cuts with a knife before baking. 



Small Meat Pies 
These pies are made in patty pans lined with short paste No. 1. 



Fill 



m with beef or veal chopped fine, well seasoned, with 1 oz. best pepper 
Meat Pies ^^^^ ^ OZ. salt to every 7 lb. meat used, and mixed with a 
or Patties, little flour and water. The top or cover consists of a round 
piece of best pufF paste cut out with a plain cutter. This after sealing 
is glazed with Qgg, and a small round or diamond of paste is placed on 
top to indicate whether the contents consist of veal or beef. 

Coventries 

In some parts of the kingdom these pastries are known as three-comer 
puffs (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 24). Roll the paste out 

to tV in. thick, and cut with a 5-in. plain round cutter. Place 
Coventries. ,.^" . . i i. • 

a little jam in the centre, and after wetting on the edges care- 
fully fold, taking care that the ends overlap sufficiently to prevent the 
jam boiling out. Glaze with white of egg, dust with castor sugar, and 
bake in a hot oven. 



PLAIN AND FANCY SHOP PASTRIES 



349 




Fig. 39.— Cream Horn or Cornucopia Tin 



Cream Horns 

Roll out some puff- paste trim- 
mings xV ^^- thick, and cut up in long 
strips f in. wide and Cream Horns or 
about 12 in. long. Cornucopias. 

Wind each of these pieces of paste 
round a tin mould shaped like a cor- 
nucopia (fig. 39), beginning at the bottom and finishing to top of tin 

(fig. 40). When a number are done, wash 
over with water or thin egg wash, and 
either dip them in castor sugar, or dust 
some sugar over them; then remove to 
the baking sheet, allow to lie for twenty 
minutes, and bake in a hot oven. Caution 
is necessary while folding the paste 
around the moulds not to stretch it, as 
it will draw in during the baking, and 
is likely to slip away from the moulds. 
Fill with a little jam in the bottom of 
each, and above the jam with custard or 
whipped cream, using a forcing-bag for 

Finished Ready for Oven t^lC purpOSe (sce Plate, SALEABLE SHOP 

Fig. 40.— Shaping a Cream Horn PASTRIES, No. 12). 




Twisting Paste on Tin 





1st stage 



2nd stage 



Cream Rolls 

Cream rolls are more expeditiously made than horns, and when neatly 

finished look quite as well. For 

these the paste is „ _ „ 

- 7 1 , Cream Rolls, 

pinned out about 

I in. thick, then cut into long 

strips about 12 in. in length and 

3 in. wide. These are moistened 

along the edges with water or egg 

wash. A number of round sticks 

about f in. diameter and 14 in. 

long are used on which to turn 

those pieces of paste. The stick is 

simply placed on the piece of paste 

longways (fig. 41, stage 1), and 

the latter turned round it (stage 

2). As the stick is 2 in. longer 

than the paste, it projects by 1 in. 

at either end, thus facilitating lifting and handling. The paste on each 

stick is then cut all round into three equal pieces either with a knife or on 

a little frame for the purpose, on which four knife-edges are fixed at equal 




3rd stage 
Fig. 41.— The Making of Cream Rolls 



Vol. I. 



45 



350 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

distances (fig. 41, stage 3). With such a frame the cutting is done very 
easily. The stick is retained inside the paste while it is 
baking. When done, the four separate cylinders of paste 

are easily removed from the roller. With a forcing- bag they are filled 

with whipped cream or custard, and then dusted over with icing sugar. 

The custard is not filled quite to either end; then a little bright jam is 

piped around the edge. 

Cream Slices 

Cover a baking sheet with a thin layer of pufF-paste trimmings. Allow 

this to lie for several minutes, and cut up in long strips 3| in. wide. Prick 

well with the point of a knife, and bake without drviner the 
Cream Slices. t/ o- 

paste. When cold, spread with raspberry jam, and make 

up a sandwich with two pieces of paste and boiled vanilla custard. Mask 

over with white fondant, sprinkle with pink cocoanut, and cut into slices 

(see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, Nos. 11, 23). 

MiLLE-FEUILLE 

Take three strips of pastry as prepared for making cream slices. 

Sandwich together with apple or 

raspberry iam. Mask 

Mille-feuille. ,, ^^ "^ "i ., 

the top and sides with 

hot apricot jelly. Sprinkle filleted 
almonds and chopped pistachio nuts 
down the centre, and cover the side 
and the border with desiccated cocoa- 
nut (fig. 42). Have a piece of wood 

*' Met " Stick for the length of the Fig. 42. -Mille-feuille 

Cutting Slices. baking sheet and 

3| in. wide kept ready in the bakehouse to serve as a guide when cutting 

the strips of paste; it will save time, and ensure their being all one size. 

Cream Custards 

These custards are prepared in a different way from ordinary custards. 
Splash a baking sheet with water and lay upon it some thin pieces of 
No. 1 short paste, cut out with a 2|-in. plain cutter. 
Wash these over with water, and on each place a ring of 
the best puff" paste. Glaze with e^g wash, and bake in a hot oven. With 
a forcing - bag and a J-in. plain tube pipe in each ring enough boiled 
custard to fill it. The custard should be used warm. Half a cherry should 
be placed on the centre of each to finish. 

For the custard, boil a quart of milk in a bowl on the stove. In another 

bowl place 6 yolks, 6 eggs, 5 oz. of castor sugar, and 2 oz. of 

corn flour with vanilla flavouring. Beat all together with 

a whisk, and pour on the boiling milk, stirring all the time to prevent 

^ . ^ ^ lumps forming. Place all back again on the stove, and 

Preventing Curd- \ . ., , ,° 

ling in Custard. continue to stir Until the custard comes to the boil. 




PLAIN AND FANCY SHOP PASTRIES 351 



Cheese Cakes 

For these pastries (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, Nos. 3, 7, 8, 19, 
20) line shallow patty pans with best puff paste cut out with a 3-in, crimp 
cutter. Thumb these up well from the bottom, drop a little 
raspberry jam with a paper cornet in each case, and then 
three-quarters fill with cheese curd. Lay upon the curd two narrow strips 
of paste to form a cross, or one piece in the shape of a knot, and bake in 
a hot oven. The curd used for these cakes may be made with either of the 
three fillings given below. 

Beat well together 1 lb. of butter and an equal quantity of castor sugar. 
When quite light, begin working in eight large eggs, two at a time. Scrape 
down the sides of the pan, and stir in 1 lb. of flour and the cheese Curd 
zest of three lemons. Instead of using flour in making this °^ Filling, 
curd, stale sponge-cake crumbs may be used in the proportion of 6 oz. to 
replace 12 oz. of flour. 

Another curd is made by mixing together 1| pt. of warm milk and one 
tablespoonful of essence of rennet. After mixing, stand this in a warm 
cupboard until the milk begins to curdle; then turn out on 
a hair sieve to drain. Take 6 oz. of butter, 5 oz. of castor 
sugar, 2 oz. of currants, and the zest and juice of one lemon. Mix these all 
together as for the previous mixing, and stir in the curd from the sieve. 
For cheese cakes with this curd no paste is necessary on the top. 

The filling for almond cheese consists of 2 lb. sugar, | lb. ground 
almonds, ^ lb. flour, the whole stirred into a thick paste with eggs; this 
quantity will take a little over a pint. The cases have a Almond 
spot of jam on bottom and this filling on top, and are then Cheese Cakes, 
dusted over with castor sugar thickly. When baked, they are quite flat 
and glazed on top, and of a pleasant brown colour. 

Scotch cheese cakes have a puff"- paste case, but no jam. The cake 
mixing to fill consists of a Madeira cake mixture, or for cheap sorts 12 oz. 
butter, 12 oz. sugar, 3 lb. soft flour through which h oz. soda scotch 
and 1 oz. cream of tartar has been sifted, 3 eggs, and milk to Cheese Cakes, 
make batter as for Madeira cake. The paste cases should be rather thick, 
and should not be thumbed up at all. A string of paste twisted in the 
form of a lover's knot is placed on the top of the cake filling. 

Maids of Honour 

These pastries (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 26) are best 
made with pufl'-paste trimmings. Roll out the paste to ^ in. thick, cut out with 
a plain 3-in. cutter, and lay the pieces in shallow patty Richmond Maids 
pans. Thumb up and allow to lie for about half an hour; °^ Honour, 
then three-quarters fill with warm filling, made according to the recipe 
in the following paragraph. These cakes must not be baked in a very 
hot oven, or the mixture will run over the sides of the paste. 



352 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Into a mixing-bowl weigh 1 lb. of castor sugar, | lb. of ground almonds, 
8 eggs, and the zest of 6 lemons. Mix all together with a whisk, and stir 
Filling for Maids in ^ lb. of warm clarified fresh butter. This curd will 
of Honour. keep for several days stored in a jar, and should be 

warmed by standing the jar in hot water each time it is required. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes 

Cut out the puff paste and prepare as for cheese cakes, as already 
Lemon described; only, instead of filling with curd, bake in the 

Cheese Cakes, centre of each a small piece of cork or hard biscuit 1| in. 
in diameter. When baked, remove the centre and fill in with clear lemon 
curd, made as follows. 

Into a clean tinned copper stewpan weigh 1| lb. of fresh butter and 
3 lb. of crushed lump sugar. Stand the pan over a very slow fire, and 
when the sugar and butter are warm stir in 24 yolks, 8 eggs, 
and the juice from 12 lemons. Another curd may be made 
with 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 8 eggs, and the juice of 4 lemons. Continue to 
stir the mixture with a spatula until it thickens, then remove from the fire, 
and store in a dry jar or pan. When cooking the curd over the gas, great 
_ . . care must be taken to prevent it from burninsr; to euard 

against this it is advisable, especially when using a thin- 
bottomed saucepan, to cook it over a bain-marie. A bain-marie consists 
of a small pan within a larger one, the outer one being filled with water. 
The contents of the inner pan therefore cannot rise above 212° F. 

These cheese cakes may also be cooked in the ordinary way by adding 
the filling in the cases before baking. The only precaution necessary is to 
Cheap Curd have the paste evenly in the patty pans, and not to use more 
for Lemon filling than will neatly fill the cases when baked. The filling 

eese a es. g^g;[|g ^p jj^ ^]^g oven, and afterwards sinks in the centre, 
showing a slightly darker fringe round the edge. In some districts it is 
usual to make these tarts or cakes with short paste or with puff'-paste 
trimmings, as convenient; and as the size has often to be large, a much 
cheaper filling than the above is used. For this filling use the following 
mixture: 1 oz. tartaric acid, 1| lb. butter, 5 lb. sugar, 24 eggs, 1 pt. water, 
and ^ oz. lemon essence. The water is boiled, and part of it mixed with 
the butter and sugar, whilst the remainder is used to melt the acid. The 
whole materials, including the eggs, are then brought to the boil and kept 
constantly stirred all the time on the stove until they thicken. This 
quantity produces about 10 lb. of curd, and although cheap, tastes very 
well when baked. Either this curd or the richer one given above can 
be made up neatly in glass jars for sale to the public, or in large jars for 
those bakers who prefer to buy their curd ready made. It is used in the 
manner described above. 



PLAIN AND FANCY SHOP PASTRIES 353 

Pastry Fans 

Pin out a piece of the best puff paste to | in. thick and 18 in. square. 
Cover the paste with a layer of castor sugar. Fold over the end furthest 
from you and bring it to the centre. Fold the other side i'^ p ^ p 
the same manner, so that the two opposite ends meet in the 
centre. Dust with sugar, and continue to fold the paste over until it is 
only about 4 in. wide. Dust again with sugar, and bring one layer over on 
to the other. This consists then of many layers of paste alternating with 
layers of sugar. When finished, the strip of paste will be about 2 in. wide 
and IJ in. thick. Cut this in pieces f in. wide, and lay these 2^ in. apart 
on baking sheets and bake in a hot oven. When partly baked, dust with 
castor sugar, and return them again to the oven. These pastries may be 
sandwiched together with cream or preserve of any suitable kind. 

Frangipane Slices 

Prepare these pastries by pinning out a long strip of sweet short paste 
the full length of the baking sheet, 3| in. wide, and ^ in. thick. Lay this 
upon the tin, and spread down the centre of the paste a layer of Frangipane 
frangipane, which is the name given to the filling used for Slices. 
Victoria tarts (p. 340). Prepare some strings of pufF paste, and lay these 
over the almond paste crossways. Wet the borders with e^g wash, and 
along each side of the strip place a long band of puff paste, ^ in. thick, and 
I in. wide. Notch the sides with the back of a knife, and glaze over with 
egg. Pake in a hot oven; on taking from the oven, brush the centre over 
with apricot jelly; sprinkle cocoanut, coloured green, over this, and then 
cut in slices 1 in. wide. 

Banbury Cakes 

To make these pastries as sold in Banbury (see Plate, Saleable Shop 
Pastries, No. 13), a very rich filling is required, and they should not be sold 
at less than twopence each. As the town mentioned is noted for Banbury 
the quality of these articles, the price is easily obtained. In most Cakes, 
places no more than one penny is charged, and the cakes are generally made 
with puff paste, and a filling which consists principally of stale cake crumbs, 
a few currants, and spice. To prepare this filling, mix some cake crumbs 
which have been passed through the sieve in a bowl with an equal quantity 
of currants, some finely chopped mixed peel, a little moist Banbury Meat 
sugar, and enough mixed spice to flavour. Moisten these °'" Filling- 
ingredients with enough apple jam or apple pulp to make a paste about 
the same consistency as mince meat. Pin out some puff-paste trimmings 
to I in. thick, and cut out the number of pieces required with an oval cutter 
4 J by 2 1 in. Lay a small piece of this prepared filling along the centre of 
each piece of paste, and splash the paste with water. Draw over the sides 
to cover the filling. Close up the paste so as to have each cake pointed 
at the end; slightly flatten with the hand, and turn over on the board 



354 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Wash with white of egg, dust with castor sugar, and mark the top of 
each with the point of a knife. Bake in a hot oven. 

Eccles cakes (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 32) are made in 
Eccles nearly the same manner and with the same ingredients as Ban- 
Cakes, burys, only the usual shape is round. Mark a leaf design on the 
top of each cake with the knife, to give them a showy appearance. 

Nelson Squares 

This is a much-despised confection, the position of which is near the 
nadir of the craftsman's ambition, yet it has its uses and its excellences. 

Pin a piece of short paste No. 1 out very thin, and roll this on the 
Nelson rolling-pin; cover the bottom and sides of a baking sheet with 
Squares, ^his sheet of paste; splash it with water. Dock well, and spread 
over it a thin layer of jam, then of Banbury meat, to about I in. thick. 
Lay upon this a thin sheet of puff-paste trimmings, wash over with water, 
and dust with castor sugar. Divide the sheet up into small squares by 
carefully marking the paste with a knife. Dock each with a small round 
docker, allow to lie for twenty minutes, and bake at a moderate tempera- 
ture. When baked dust over with pulverized or icing sugar, and cut up 
into squares. 

This sort of cake is made in bakeries for using up cake cuttings and 
other scraps that might otherwise be wasted. It is sometimes given the 
opprobriously sounding name of "shonky", while nnince and Eccles cake 
are the other names by which it is distinguished. The last is the name 
by which it is known in Scotland, but there some care is exercised in its 
Scottish preparation. The bottom paste is made exceedingly thin, and 
Eccles then well wetted. One sheet is covered with 2 lb. of well-dried 

^^' crumbs, mixed with about 3 lb. currants, 1 lb. soft sugar, and 1 oz. 
mixed dry spice. The bottom paste is well splashed with water; then these 
ingredients, previously well mixed, are spread on evenly in the dry state 
to not more than I in. thick. The mixture is well splashed with water, 
and a sheet of good pufF-paste trimmings spread on top. This is rolled on 
smoothly with the rolling-pin, and all the edges neatly joined to the bottom 
paste. It is then pierced all over with a skewer or the point of a knife, and 
neatly marked on top in small diamonds with a scraper, but the paste is 
not cut through. It is then marked in the sizes or squares in which it is 
to be cut when baked, and washed over with a strOng egg glaze. No sugar 
is dusted on top, and it is not cut till it is cold. The size of the squares or 
three-cornered pieces to be sold for a penny must of course depend on the 
quality and the cost of the materials used for the centre. 

Large Maltese Pastries 

Lay thin pieces of short paste, cut out with a 6-inch plain cutter, on a 
Large Maltese baking sheet. On the centre of each piece place a layer of 
Pastries. frangipane cream or filling | in. thick. Wet the border of 

short paste with water, and cover over with a piece of best pufF paste, also 



SPONGE GOODS 355 

cut out with a 6-inch cutter. Notch the sides, wash over the top with 
a little water, and lay on four narrow strings of short paste. These strings 
must stretch across the paste, and will make eight spaces of equal size. 
Cut four more short strings of paste, and place these pieces between the 
ends of the other strings in alternate spaces near the outer edge of the cake. 
This will make the Maltese cross. Bake in a steady oven, and when cold 
dust over with icing sugar. With a paper cornet fill the spaces in the cross 
with some red apricot jelly. These cakes should be retailed at 6d. 
each. They not only eat nice, but look attractive if carefully finished. 

Frangipane Cake 

Another kind, known as frangipane cake, is prepared in the same way, 
only no strings of paste are added. Cover the frangipane with the puff 
paste, notch the sides, and wash over with egg; then with Frangipane 
the point of a sharp knife mark on the top some fancy leaf ^^^^ °^ '^^'■*- 
or feather design, which will show clearly after baking. This cake is very 
popular on the Continent, and is quickly made. 

Frushie or Open Tart ' 

Stringed open tarts of preserves are also made in a form similar to the 
last to sell at 6d. For this purpose 6-inch pieces of short paste are also 
used as bottoms. Instead of using frangipane filling, spread Large Open 
on a layer of raspberry jam to within 1 inch of the border. J^"^ Tarts. 
Across the jam lay thin strings of pufF-paste trimmings, ^ in. apart, and 
so arranged as to form small open diamond-shaped spaces. Place on the 
border a band of best pufF paste, 1 in. wide and ^ in. thick. Wash over with 
6gg» allow to lie for 20 minutes, wash again, and bake in a sharp oven. 



CHAPTER LXIII 

SPONGE GOODS 

One of the oldest kinds of light cakes that is still a universal favourite 
is the sponge cake. In a reprint of old recipes published by the Leadenhall 
Press, which date back at least 220 years, the " Spunge Biscuit " is given 
as a favourite cake. It is interesting to note the similarity and dis- 
similarity in the method of making sponges then and now. This old 
recipe is as follows. " Take 18 eggs, all the yolks and nine old Recipe for 
of the whites, beat the whites to a froth, then beat the yolks Sponge Cakes, 
with a whisk, then put in y""* whites that is beat to a froth, and put in 
two pounds two ounces of double refined sugar sifted, keep it beating all 
the while with a whisk, then have redy half a pint of water, and drap 
it in hott by degrees, beat it as you drap it in, then set it over the stove 
fire, and be sure to keep it stirring as hott as you can bare y"*" finger in. 




356 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

then put a pound and a half of flower, take it of the fire, sifting through 
and stiring it and the ryne of a grated lemon y" y""" pann, and put them 
in y^"" panns and bake them in a hot oven." The popularity of the sponge 
cake is due to its lightness and its high nutritive value, which makes it 
the confection par excellence for children, while it is easily handled without 
soiling the fingers. 

Sponge cakes are usually baked in moulds; and the aim of the con- 
fectioner is to turn out the cakes from these without sticking, and with 
a smooth bright surface. Clarified butter and lard, mixed in equal quan- 
Dressing tities, is suitable for dressing moulds. This mixture should be 
Moulds, applied with a soft brush, and smoothed over, and then dusted 
with dry fine-grained castor sugar. The fat may be melted and used as 
a clear liquid, but the brush should be worked about in the mould to make 
the butter creamy; then the sugar is added before the dressing sets firm. 
Best Mixture The writer has tried several ways of dusting the frames 
for Dressing. ^^g_ 43^ when greased, sometimes dusting with sugar first, 
then with flour; at other times dusting with a mixture of equal parts of 

icing and castor sugar 
mixed with flour; but the 
best results have been 
obtained by dusting with 
Fig. 43.— Sponge Frames dry fine castor sugar. It 

is usual in the bakery to 
keep a pan of clarified fat ready for sponge frames when needed, and 
this is extremely convenient and more economical than preparing it in 
small lots when wanted. The scrapings from the lard and butter tubs, 
if placed in a jar and kept in the drying oven all night, will be found 
ready for pouring ofi" in the morning, and if all scum is removed this 
serves for dressing sponge frames. 

Fine hard-grained castor sugar produces the best sponge cakes; both 
Grade of Sugar the powdery and the coarse forms should be avoided, 
for Sponges. Suitable sugar mixes readily with the eggs; the fine grains 
assist in breaking and creaming the yolks. Coarse sugar has a tendency 
Cause of Spots to remain crystalline in the sponge batter, and the baked 
on Sponges. sponge cakes generally show specks on top in consequence. 
This is most noticeable in those sponge cakes that are made by beating the 
yolks and whites separately. 

Flour of a fairly soft nature is best for these cakes, and on all occasions 
should be sifted before using, to make light mixing easy without toughening 
Best Flour the batter. The soft batter will not stand rough handling 
for Sponges, -when the flour is being stirred in ; it is therefore necessary to 
add this with little working. Generally four dozen penny sponge cakes are 
made from 1 lb. mixing. These will rise during baking half as high again 
Quantity from as the frame, and make a fairly large cake. When beating 
1 lb. Mixing. ^\^Q gggg Q^^ sugar together it is better to warm the ingre- 
dients. This may be done by standing the mixing-bowl over a bain-marie. 



SPONGE GOODS 357 

or by adding warmed sugar to the eggs. When a sponge machine is 

used, there is generally a receptacle at the bottom to hold why sponge 

hot water, which heats the mixture in the pan above. Batter is Heated. 

Mixtures beaten up warm become light more readily than those beaten 

cold. The probable explanation is that the heat quickly expands the 

tiny cells made by the egg albumen during the whisking, so that the whole 

mixture becomes light and full of air-cells. 

The following recipe will produce a good cake, which, baked under 

proper conditions, will keep moist for several days. Place into the bowl 

or machine 2 lb. of castor sugar, and 2| lb. of eggs weighed Recipe for 

in their shells. Beat these together until light. When the Sponge Cakes. 

mixture is ready, it will be noticed that the impressions made by the 

revolving wires remain for some seconds before closing together again. 

Remove the whisk, and stir in lightly 2 lb. of sifted flour, gj ^^ 

The flour should not be dropped into the mixture all at once. Readiness in 

but should be shaken in gradually yet quickly, so that the ^ ixture. 

air-cells are not broken by rough handling or too much working; otherwise 

the batter will be tough and unsatisfactory. Fill in the u 

frames with a spoon, or if convenient the forcing-bag and Flour in 

tube may be used, especially if the mixtures are large. Dust ^P°"Se Batter. 

the tops with castor sugar, and bake in a solid oven with the door partly 

open. A temperature of about 400° F. will suit these cakes. ^ 

■i-iTi 111, i • I , 1 1 » 1 . Filling the 

When baked, turn out upon wire trays to cool before placing Frames. 

in a glass case in the shop. 

Many confectioners are obliged to make cheap cakes to compete with 

factory-made articles, and for these the following recipe will make a good 

sponge. Beat together 2^ lb. of eggs (weighed in their Recipe for 

shells) and 3f lb. of sugar. Cheap Sponges. 

When beaten quite light, add gradually 

1 pt. of warm water, finish whisking, and 

stir in lightly a few drops of oil of lemon 

and egg colour, together with 3 lb. of medium 

strong flour, with which has been sifted 

Fie. 44. -Balmoral Sponge Mould 1 OZ. of No. 2 pOwdcr (sCC p. 317). 

Balmorals or sponge racks may be made 
from either of the above recipes. With the second, large bulky Balmorals 
cakes weighing 4 oz. each may be sold at 2d., so as to yield ^^^ Racks. 
a fair profit. The mould used is shown in fig. 44. 

Victoria Sandwiches 

Victoria sandwiches are light sponges made in shallow crimp or plain 

pans, and make a good saleable line. The moulds are usually from 5 to 

6 in. in diameter, and 1 in. deep. These may be made from victoria 

either of the mixtures prepared for sponge cakes. When cold Sandwiches. 

they are sliced in halves, and sandwiched together with jam, or with a layer 

of whipped cream. When necessary the mixture for these sandwiches may 
Vol. I. 48 




358 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

be improved by stirring in with the flour 3 oz. of melted butter to each 
1 lb. mixing. 

Quite a large assortment may be made by the addition of various 
flavours. Three of the most popular are chocolate, orange, and coffee. 
To flavour the mixture chocolate, stir in with the warm butter 2 oz. of 
unsweetened cocoa, or cocoa powder, to each 1 lb. of the mixture, add 
Chocolate a little vanilla flavouring, and bake in a steady oven — about 
Sandwiches. 400° F. When cold, split, and sandwich together with choco- 
late cream, then mask with fondant, and sprinkle some chopped pista- 
chio over, or decorate with royal icing. To make orange sandwiches, 
Orange flavour with the zest of orange. Spread in the centre a 

Sandwiches, layer of orange cream, cover with orange fondant, and de- 
corate with quarters of preserved or fresh oranges. The variety called 
mandarins are small and easily split, and are therefore very suitable for 
Coffee this purpose. Coflee essence is necessary to flavour the cake 

Sandwiches, for coffee sandwich. This must be strong, and is much better 
home-made for the purpose than bought ready-prepared. Sandwich the 
cake together with cream flavoured with coffee and brandy; mask over 
Finishing- and "^i^h coffee fondant, and decorate with fine piped butter 
Flavouring cream. These sandwiches sell readily whole, but, where 

Sandwic es. afternoon teas are catered for, a good twopenny article may 
be made by cutting them into small triangular pieces. 

Sponge Drops and Biscuits 

Sponge drops are made by laying out upon papered baking sheets small 
bulbs of sponge mixture from a forcing-bag and ^-in. plain tube. They are 
dusted with fine castor sugar, and baked in a hot oven (about 
400" F.). The drops are removed by wetting the back of the 
paper on which they are baked. They are then sandwiched in pairs, with 
apricot or other jam or jelly. They are made sometimes to sell by weight, 
or, made larger, at one halfpenny each, while in some districts they are sold 
Sponge singly as sponge biscuits. There are many ways of finishing these 
Biscuits, articles. Water icing or fondant may be used for this purpose, 
and they may be decorated with preserved cherries and angelica. They 
may be masked with hot apricot jelly, and then rolled on coarse desiccated 
Finishing cocoanut, with a little chopped pistachio on the centre of 

Sponge Drops, each, or cocoanut coloured green may be used. This makes 
a contrast with the w^hite cocoanut and improves the appearance of the 
finished article. Fairly coarse cocoanut should be used for covering the 
hot jelly. That from which the very fine powder has been sifted looks 
best, as the clear jelly shows underneath. 

Leamington Sponges 

Leamington sponges is the name given to small cakes made from a rich 
sponge mixture, in oblong moulds, rounded at the ends (fig. 45). The 



NOTABLE WELSH BAKERS 

J. Clement Cobb was bom at Bath in i860, the son of a baker 
and confectioner. He served his apprenticeship to baking in 
his native town, and had experience in London and elsewhere 
before settHng in his present business in Cardiff in 1889. He 
was President of the CardifT Association in 1899 and of the 
South Wales and West of England Federation of Master Bakers 
in 1906, and was one of the Committee of the latter which formulated 
the celebrated Sale Note Clause. He has for several years been 
a member oi Council of the National Association, and was elected 
a Vice-president in 1907. He has been a Confectionery Judge at 
the London Exhibition since 1902. 

John Walker, born in i860, at the age of thirty-four succeeded 
his father in a prosperous baking, confectionery, and catering 
business in Penarth. He has long been Hon. Secretary of the 
Penarth Association and Hon. Treasurer of the South Wales 
Federation of Master Bakers since its formation. He is one of 
the Bread Judges at the London Exhibition. 

William J. Travers, born in Cardiff in 1859, has been in 
business in Cardiff since 1878. He is a recognized leader of the 
baking trade in Wales, and is Secretary of the Cardiff Association. 
He is a strong advocate of the arrangement between bakers and 
millers, known as the South Wales Sale Note Clause, to stop under- 
selling. He was elected a Vice-president of the National Association 
of Master Bakers in 1894, and is a leading member of its Council 
and Executive. He takes an active part in municipal politics. 

John H. Davis, born at Barnstaple in 1850, removed to Cardiff 
at an early age. He took a leading part in organizing the operatives 
and was the first President in Wales of their Association. He has 
been on the Committee of the local Master Bakers' Association 
from as early as 1875. According to local custom this long 
connection with the Association secures him the title of "Father", 
by which he is known locally. He has been twice President of 
the Cardiff Association. 









\ 




■ .-r 




1 
i 


^^s 


f ''; ' 


91 


bJ 






h}±J 


^ 






m 


H 




J CLEMENT COBB 

(Cardiff) 



JOHN WALKER 

(Penarth) 




WILLIAM J. TRAVERS 

(Cardiff) 



.JOHN H. DAVIS 

(Cardiff) 



NOTABLE WELSH BAKERS 



SPONGE GOODS 



369 




Fig. 45.— Leamington Sponge Mould 



moulds are dressed in the same manner as 
sponge frames, and two small pieces Leamington 
of citron peel are placed along the Sponges, 
bottom of each. When the cakes are baked 
they are turned upside down upon a wire tray, 
and the pieces of peel lightly brushed with 
warm syrup. . 

Savoy Cakes 

Savoy calces require more care in making than most others made 
from the sponge cake mixing. They are made in fancy-shaped moulds 
{^g. 46), sometimes too fancy, from 6 to 12 in. high. Very g^ Cakes. 
careful preparation of the mould is necessary. The clarified 
fat must be evenly distributed in the mould. On top of this it is dusted 
with castor sugar and then with sifted flour. It is filled about three- 




Fig. 46.— Savoy Moulds 



quarters full with sponge batter, which should be quite cold; a piece 
of greased thick paper is fastened around and above the edge of the 
mould. The cake is baked at a steady temperature (about 360° F.). 
When baked it should feel spongy and elastic, and should be turned 
out of the mould on to a wire tray or sieve to cool. When the moulds 
are too elaborate there is some difficulty in getting the cake to fill all 
the crevices properly and to appear quite as smooth and nice as the 
mould. Tin-lined copper moulds are best for this purpose, ^j^ Copper 
owing to the superior conductivity of the copper produc- Moulds are 
ing a well-baked skin or thin crust on the outside of the ^^ °^ avoys. 
cake. Savoy moulds or cakes are now much less common than formerly. 
For table decoration they were generally iced over with royal icing and 
piped in fine lines designed to bring out the main lines of the design on 
the mould. They were used principally for standing on luncheon or buffet 
tables. When decorated elaborately they were not always cut, but were 
used on several occasions as table ornaments. 

Savoy cakes are not now in fashion, except at the Christmas season 
when stale cakes of this sort made in moulds are used for the preparation 



360 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

of ti'psy cake. This is another confection that has almost disappeared 
from the confectioner's list; but there is profit in the article 
when it is made. Where a fair price can be obtained for 
the tipsy cake, soak a stale cake with about a gill of sherry and the same 
quantity of maraschino. Stick all over the cake thin pieces of filleted 
almonds, and cover partly with whipped cream or boiled custard before 
serving. 

Almond Sponge Cake 

Almond sponge cake is made from a recipe slightly richer than is used 
for the above cakes. The method of working is different, and it contains 
Almond half corn flour and half plain flour. Break 2^ lb. of eggs, 

Sponge Cake, separating the whites and yolks; put the whites in a whip- 
ping-bowl and the yolks into a basin. Add to the yolks 2 lb. of fine 
castor sugar, and cream well together with a spatula. Whisk the whites 
quite firm, stir in the yolks and sugar, working all together very lightly, 
add a little vanilla flavouring, and with a spatula stir in 1^ lb. of 
half plain flour and half corn flour. Use round moulds M'^hich have 
a design stamped on the bottom and are about 3 in. deep. Dress these 
with clarified fat and thin shredded almonds. Three-quarters fill each, 
and gently tap upon the table to settle the mixture, and bake in a steady 
oven (about 370° F.). When baked, turn out on a wire tray and dust 
lightly with icing sugar. This mixture will make a very nice cake. If 
To protect ^^® oven is too hot, fasten round each mould a band of 

Light Cakes in greased cartridge paper. The above recipe prescribes a 
a ot ven. larger proportion of sugar than is used for ordinary sponge 
cakes. This gives the cake a very light texture, which cannot be ob- 
tained if more flour is used. A richer cake may be made with 16 large 
eggs, 1 lb. of castor sugar, and 12 oz. of plain flour. 

Sponge Darioles 

Sponge darioles are made in small moulds (fig. 47). These are dressed 

with clarified fat and flour, three -parts filled with 

^ . , one of the sponge batters, and baked 
Sponge Darioles. . i o t-i 

in a hot oven, about 400 F. When 

ready and quite cold, cut ofl' the rounded part of the 

top of each cake, so that they may stand upside down. 

Using a fork to hold the cake, dip it in hot apricot 

jelly and roll the sides in desiccated cocoanut; then 

place half a preserved cherry on top. No cocoanut 

should be placed on top with the fruit, but have the 

jelly quite clear and the sides neatly covered, and 

the cakes will present a clean, neat appearance. ^'s- 47.-Darioie Mould 

Sometimes these cakes are sold under the name of 

Madeleine cakes, but more properly these are made in shallow shell-like 

moulds (fig. 48). In Paris they are almost as popular as the sponge cake 





SPONGE GOODS 361 

is here. They are made with a rich sponge batter, into which a little 

clarified butter has been sponge 
stirred. The quickest and Madeleines, 
cleanest method of masking the dariole 
cakes with the hot jelly is to dip half 
of the cake into the jelly, and brush 
this over the remainder of the cake 

l-ig. 48.-Madelelne Mould without toUching the top. Masking 

By this means there will be Darioies. 
less jam on the cake than if it was dipped in almost entirely, and less 
cocoanut is needed for covering. These goods look unsightly and clumsy 
when the covering is thick. 

Sponge Rusks 

Sponge rusks are made by drying in the oven small slices of stale 

sponge cake. The cake for this purpose is made in oblong tins about 

3 in. deep and 3i in. wide. This is generally cut the day „ 

, , . • . 1 • ,1 • 1 1 1 -1 • Sponge Rusks, 

after baking m pieces \ m. thick, and dried upon wn-e 

trays in a cool oven (340° F.). Another kind of rusk is made by cutting 

into slices round sponge cakes baked in moulds, as used for making small 

custards. These are dusted with granulated sugar before drying in 

the oven. 

Sponge Fingers 

Sponge fingers seem also to be quite an ancient form of confection, for 
under the title of Long Biscuits in the book of old recipes already referred 
to, their manufacture is thus described. "Take 30 yolks of eggs, fifteen 
whites, break 28 of them [evidently to get the 28 yolks] beat y"* well 
in rose water and put in 3 lb. of sifted loaf sugar, beat it all the while 
y^ oven is heating, y° dry 2 pound and a quarter of fine flower, let it be 
cold before y^ flower is in. Y® 2 eggs you left out beat on y^ flower, 
stirring it well, have y""^ oven pretty quick. You may put in carraways 
seeds and make it y^ queen seed biscuit. Beat them with a batter ladle 
or twigg. Whoever begins to beat must continue for fear of oiling. 
Take it and drop them." 

Savoy Finger Biscuits 

To make Savoy finger biscuits place into the machine or whipping- 
bowl 1 lb. of castor sugar, 4 yolks, and 1 lb. of eggs weighed in the shell. 
Beat these together as for ordinary sponge mixture; when 
quite light and cold, stir in 1 lb. of Hungarian flour. Fold 
some half sheets of kitchen paper into bands 3| in. wide, unfold and lay 
these open on the board. Fill the forcing-bag with part of the mixture, 
and pipe out the biscuits through a ^-in. tube in rows upon the paper, keep- 
ing each row between the lines made by the folds of the paper, so as to 
have them all one length. Cover thoroughly with sifted sugar through a 
hair sieve or with a sugar-dredger; then raise the paper and shake off" all 



362 PASTES AND PASTEIES 

excess of sugar that does not adhere to the biscuits, and bake in a hot 
oven, about 450° F. As soon as the biscuits are baked remove the papers 
from the hot baking sheets, and lay aside to cool. As the 
biscuits do not take very long to bake, it is better that 
one man should attend to the oven, while another lays out the biscuits. 
As soon as two sheets are ready, these should be placed in the oven, 
as the mixture otherwise has a tendency to run flat if allowed to lie 
on the tins before baking. From this mixture, if carefully prepared, 
fairly high finger biscuits will be obtained. The tops should be quite 
smooth, if sufficient sugar is dusted on to form a casing on the biscuits. 

Taking Savoy "^^^7 ^^^^ ^^^7 ^^^® ^ ^^^ minutes to bake, and require 
Fingers careful watching, but if baked properly they will remain 

rom apers. nioist for several days. To remove the biscuits from the 
papers lay these, two at a time, upon a wet board until the paper becomes 
moist through. As soon as the biscuits can be removed, take these oft' 
and sandwich them together; enough moisture from the paper will be 
on the biscuits for this purpose. When the first paper is cleared, remove 
and place another in its place, and proceed with the second paper. This 
method appears much better than that followed by some, of topping the 
papers one upon another, and then with a brush wetting the back of 
each in turn. By this topping arrangement there is always a risk of 
breaking the surface of the biscuits, especially when they are a little 
under-baked. 

These biscuits are made to retail at Is. 6d. per lb. They are sometimes 
used for making various kinds of cream charlottes, and for this purpose 
Biscuits for should be laid out as straight as possible, with the ends and 
Charlottes. centre of the same width. When they are wide at the ends 
and thin in the centre, and are required for this purpose, much of the 
biscuit is wasted by trimming. The following recipe will make a light 
biscuit, which may with profit be sold at hd. a pair. Beat 20 large whites 
quite light and firm, break the grain of 24 yolks, and whisk these in with 
Plump Savoy the whites. Remove the whisk and stir in with a spatula 
Fingers. j^ lb. of castor sugar, then 1 lb. of sifted Hungarian flour. 

Flavour with essence of vanilla, lay out the biscuits of the same size 
as the above, and when all are ready dust well with sugar, and bake 
in a fairly hot oven (400° F.). This mixture will not run flat so quickly 
as the other, after the biscuits are laid out, so that if necessary the whole 
of the biscuits may be baked at once. 

Pearl Biscuits 

Pearl biscuits are made from the above mixture, laid out on 

paper the same size as ordinary finger biscuits. The sugar dusted on 

^ , „. . them is allowed to remain on for a few minutes without 
Pearl Biscuits. 

being disturbed. By this means a quantity of the sugar 

soaks into the biscuits, and small pearls are formed on top of the cakes 

during baking. Where more of these are required, dust the biscuits 



SPONGE GOODS 363 

a second time with the sugar before baking, and when these are taken 
from the oven a row of small bulbs of sugar will be found ^^^ Light Mix- 
along each side of the biscuits. For this mixture it is tures are spoiled 
necessary to use a |-in. plain tube in the forcing-bag, ^ 
because the batter is so light that the pressure through a small tube would 

destroy it. 

Almond Sponge Fingers 

Almond sponge fingers are made from the same mixture, flavoured 
with vanilla sugar, and laid out thick from a bag with a f-in. plain tube. 
Cover with finely chopped almonds, previously passed Almond 
tlirough a wire sieve to remove all large pieces, which Sponge Fingers, 
would otherwise make the biscuits flat. Dust with fine sugar and bake 
at a temperature of about 390° F. When cold remove from the paper, 
and dust with icing and vanilla sugar mixed. These biscuits are retailed 
at Ic^. each. Thin paper should not be used for these biscuits. Cartridge 
paper may be used over again several times for the purpose. The biscuits 
can be quickly removed with a sharp knife. 

Sponge Swiss Rolls 

Sponge Swiss rolls are made with sugar, eggs, and flour prepared as 
for sponge cakes. "Where possible, bright-coloured jam should be used, and 
this must be of such a consistency as is easily spread on the 
cake; if used very soft, it quickly soaks in and spoils the 
appearance. On the other hand, cheap jam, which is sometimes tough, 
will, if great care is not exercised, make the cake heavy. These details 
must be attended to to ensure success. Prepare 1^ lb. of eggs, ^ lb. of flour, 
and \ lb. of castor sugar into a light batter as for sponge cakes. Cover a 
large baking sheet with greased paper, and with a palette knife spread this 
mixture over evenly. Bake in a hot oven (about 440° F.). When it springs 
back on being pressed with the finger, and the indent disappears, it is 
sufficiently baked. It should be turned over upon a clean cloth dusted 
with castor sugar, the paper then removed, and a layer of jam spread 
evenly on the sheet of sponge. Roll the cake over, close enough to make 
it perfectly round, without using enough pressure to spoil the texture. 
More care is required at the commencement of turning over p ,,. , 

the cake, for if this is not carefully done, a large hole will be Finishing 
found in the roll when cut. It may be rolled in a sheet of Swiss Roll, 
sugar-dusted paper and alloM^ed to stand until wanted. The cake may be 
dusted with fine or granulated sugar, with a band of red sugar dropped 
along the centre to add brightness, before being sent to 
the shop. For variety it may be covered with a thin 
coating of apricot jelly, and then rolled on fine desiccated cocoanut. A 
very nice roll may be made by rolling the cake, when covered cheap 
with hot jelly, on a layer of roasted stale sponge cake crumbs. Swiss Roll. 
A slightly cheaper roll is made with a batter prepared from 2 lb. of eggs, 
1 lb. 2 oz. of sugar, and 1 lb. of flour. 



364 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

In some districts very cheap sponge roll is required to compete with 
factory-made cake. The following quantities of ingredients will make 
Factory three large rolls. Make into a batter, as for cheap sponge 

Swiss Roll, cake, 3^ lb. of flour, 3 lb. castor sugar, 2^ lb. of eggs (weighed 
in shells), 1^ oz. No. 2 powder (see p. 317), essence of lemon and egg colour, 
and about 1| gills hot water. Owing to the quantity of water in the 
mixture, it should always be baked in a solid oven at 440" F. When the 
Lemon cake is rolled, dust with sugar in the ordinary way, or brush 
Curd Roll, over with hot jelly and roll it upon some desiccated cocoanut. 
Instead of using jam in Swiss roll, lemon curd may be substituted. 

A new line of Swiss roll, which should be introduced by confectioners 
to their customers, is one flavoured with cocoa. The mixture is prepared 
Cocoa with whipped egg whites, as for pearl biscuits, and made 

Swiss Roll, with the following quantities of material: 1^ lb. castor sugar, 
1 lb. 2 oz. of flour, 2| lb. of eggs, and 2J oz. of cocoa powder. The cocoa 
Vanilla Cream powder may be sifted through the flour. Bake the cake in 
in Swiss Roll. ^ thin sheet, and, instead of jam, spread on a layer of 
whipped vanilla cream. When baked, roll up and cover with a thin layer 
Substitute for of hot jelly, and mask with roasted cake crumbs. A very 
Whipped Cream, good substitute for the Cream may be made by mixing 
together some butter cream and Italian meringue, for which see p. 385. 



CHAPTER LXIV 

CHATEAU OR GENOESE PASTE 

For Genoese pastry the usual practice in most bakeries is to keep slabs 
of thin cake known as gateau paste in stock. There are several kinds of 
Heavy and Light paste answering to this name, the variety depending on 
Genoese Paste. ^^g class of trade that is done. One sort is known as 
" heavy " and another as " light " paste. The word " heavy " does not 
imply that the cake is not light; it is used to draw a distinction between 
the one that is nothing more than a rich Madeira mixing, and one that 
is a very light sponge cake in which melted butter has been used. The 
following recipes for the preparation of these pastes will be found suitable 
for any class of trade, whether for rich choice dainties or for large penny- 
worths. The recipes are numbered for reference. Hungarian flour is given 
in the recipes, but any good British-milled patent will serve as well. 

No. 1 recipe for Genoese or gateau paste is prepared by beating 
together, as for sponge cake batter, 2 lb. of eggs and 1 lb. of castor 
„ r sugar. Remove the whisk when the mixture is quite light. 

Gateau Paste: and stir in carefully 12 oz. of Hungarian flour and 2 oz. 

^' of corn flour, and when these are almost mixed, | lb. of 

fresh melted butter is added. Careful handling is necessary while mixing 



GATEAU OR GENOESE PASTE 365 

in the fat; otherwise the batter will drop and become heavy. This 
will make seven light cakes, baked in hoops 6 in. in diameter Hoops for 
and 2 in. deep. As the mixture is so light, no paper band or Gateaux, 
fat of any kind should be placed inside the hoops. Bake in a steady 
oven at 380'' F., and when cold cut out from the hoops without spoiling 
the smooth sides of the cake. This batter may be spread on a flat baking 
sheet about 1 in. thick, and after baking it may be used for cutting into 
small fancy shapes; but great care is required to prevent its crumbling, 
and in consequence for this latter purpose No. 2 recipe is recommended. 

Follow out the instructions as given for No. 1, and mix together 30 
yolks, 30 eggs, 2 lb. castor sugar, 1 lb. 3 oz. of corn flour, 1 lb. 3 oz. of 
Hungarian flour, and 1^ lb. of melted butter. Line a Another Genoese 
large baking sheet with paper, spread the mixture evenly, Recipe: No. 2. 
and place a small piece of wood at the end to prevent this from flowing 
out. Bake at a temperature of 380° F. When the cake is cool enough to 
handle, turn this upside down upon a clean piece of sacking, ^^ j^^^ 
and store in a cold cupboard away from any draughts until Sheets of 
required. A temperature between 75° and 80° F. will be warm Genoese, 
enough to keep the batter while beating. It is not advisable to remove the 
paper from the cake until this is ready for cutting; if left on, it prevents 
the cake from drying. 

No. 3 paste is made by a different method, and is very useful for 
cutting. The whipped whites must be perfectly smooth, without sign of 
curdling, and a fine texture will be the result. Whisk up 32 j^ 
whites; when these are fairly stiff", beat in 3 oz. of castor sugar, Genoese 
and continue whisking until the whites stand upright upon *^ecipe. 
raising the whisk. Break the grain of 40 yolks; beat these in with the 
whites; remove the whisk and stir in with a large wooden spoon, first 2 lb. 
of castor sugar, then 1 lb. 6 oz. of Hungarian flour mixed with 4 oz. of 
corn flour, and, lastly, 1;^ lb. of clarified butter. This will make a large 
sheet of cake, and should be spread about 1 in. thick. Bake at a tempera- 
ture of 380° F. 

A more solid cake (No. 4) is made by creaming together 2 lb. of fresh 
butter and 2 lb. of castor sugar. When these are light and creamy, 2f lb. 
of eggs are gradually beaten in, and the mixture is finished q „ . 

by stirring in 2^ lb. of Hungarian flour. This No. 4 paste No. 4, for 
should be spread 1 in. thick on a papered baking sheet, ^""^^ Fancies, 
and baked in a fairly hot oven (400° F.). This paste is most useful for 
small or large decorated pastries, and does not require any artificial 
flavouring if made with good material. 

For some purposes, such as choice petits fours glacis, ground almonds 
may be added, the quantity of flour being reduced by 1 lb., Ground 
and replaced by an equivalent amount of almonds. Another Almonds 
mixture, and one that produces a nice cake, is made by cream- ^" Genoese, 
ing with the butter and sugar | lb. of rich marzipan paste. The other 
ingredients are then added as for No. 4. 

Vol. I. 47 



366 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Cheap gateau paste is made from the following recipe. Cream together 
I lb. of butter, f lb. of butter substitute, and 2| lb. of castor sugar. Beat 
^j^gg in 1| lb. of eggs, and stir in lightly 5 lb. of fairly strong flour 

Genoese with which has been sifted 3 oz. of No. 2 powder (see p. 317), 
^^^^'" and 2^ pints milk. Flavour with essence of lemon, add a few 
drops of egg colouring, and bake upon a papered baking sheet. As it con- 
tains less eggs and butter than the richer kind of cake, the tendency to 
dry is greater. It should therefore be used as fresh as possible, and should 
be kept covered with a damp cloth to keep it in cutting condition. 




CHAPTER LXV 

FANCY TAETLETS 

Victoria Tartlets 

Line some shallow patty pans with short paste No. 2, cut out with a 
crimp cutter. Thumb these up well at the sides, to leave the paste thin in 
Victoria the bottom of the pan. Drop a little raspberry jam in the centre, 
Tartlets, g^j^j with a forcing-bag and ^-in. plain tube three-quarters fill each 
lined mould with the following mixture. Weigh into a mixing-bowl 1 lb. 

of butter, free from water and salt, 
mix in 1 lb. of castor sugar, and cream 
well together. Beat in eight eggs, 
two at a time, and stir in 12 oz. of 
ground almonds, 8 oz. of soft flour, 
J gill of milk, and a little essence of 
Fig. 49.— Victoria Tartlet vauilla. Bake in a steady oven about 

380° F. When cold remove from the 
pans, brush over with hot apricot jelly, and mask the top of each tartlet 
with pink fondant. Drop a little chopped pistachio-nut or green cocoanut 
on the centre of each, and place round the border some fine roasted 
•desiccated cocoanut. These may, if preferred, be decorated with half a 
preserved cherry, and three diamond-shaped pieces of angelica. The pans 
used should be 2 1 to 3 in. diameter, and | in. deep. (See fig. 49.) 

Cocoanut Tartlets 

For cocoanut tartlets (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 7) line some 
Cocoanut patty pans in the same way as for Victorias, and partly fill 
Tartlets. each with the same kind of filling; then cover this with a layer 
of coarse shredded cocoanut. Bake in a moderate oven, and, when cold, 
Another dust over with part icing and part vanilla sugar from a dredger. 
Recipe. Yov another variety of cocoanut tartlet bake the pastries quite 
plain; then brush over when cold with hot red apricot jelly; sprinkle 



FANCY TARTLETS 367 

oil this some roasted shredded cocoanut, and a little desiccated cocoanut, 
coloured pale green. 

Maltesk Tartlets 

For these tartlets line some patty pans with short paste as for the above 
tartlets, force in a little apricot jam, and almost fill each with the same 
mixture as used for Victorias. Spread, this level with a palette Maltese 
knife, and lay in position four narrow strings of thin short paste Pastnes. 
as directed for making a large puif-paste Maltese cross (p. 355). When 
baked, till in two opposite spaces with red apricot jelly, the other two with 
white fondant, using a paper cornet for the purpose in both cases, and finish 
by placing on the centre a small silver dragee. This will leave four small 
spaces quite plain. This small article does not take a long time to prepare, 
and is very effective when carefully made. 

Another method of dividing the top of these pastries into divisions for 
holding the white fondant and jelly, is in the first instance to bake them 
plain without the strings of paste. When cold, pipe four lines of Another 
glace royal across each, in opposite directions, which will divide Finishing, 
the top into eight small spaces. Then proceed to fill these spaces as before. 

Kopje Tartlets 

To make another variety from the same filling, prepare some plain 

____ pastries as for Victoria tartlets. When 

i^^^m ^ these are quite cold, and the Kopje 

^^^^^K ^^S^^^ baked filling has set quite firm, Tartlets. 

^g^^gl^P^^^^^^ gg^^ ^^^ cut out the centre of each with a 1-in. 

^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ plain cutter. The paste bottom must not 

A ^7 be cut through. Remove the piece cut 

^ ==^ , ' ' ' . ^ out, fill in the hollow with rich boiled 

■— custard, whipped cream, or jam, place 

Fig. 5o.-Kopje Tartlet ^h^ pi^ce previously cut out on top, and 

dust with icing sugar. This is known 
as Kopje tartlet (fig. 50), and if neatly made is a very saleable article. 

Etoile Tartlets 

Line some cup-shaped moulds 2 in. in diameter and 1 in. deep with 
sweet short paste No. 2. The quickest method of preparing these is to lay 
the moulds close together upon the board. Pin out the paste quite thin, 
roll this over the rolling-pin, and unfold it on top of the moulds. With 
a small piece of firm paste held in the hand, press the short paste into the 
moulds without breaking. Pass the pin backwards and forwards several 
times over the moulds until the paste is cut through. Separate each, place 
on a baking sheet, and drop a little apricot jam in the centre. Then fill 
with a mixture made up from following ingredients: 1 lb. butter, lEtoile 
1 lb. sugar, f lb. ground almonds, | lb. cake crumbs, 8 eggs, J gill Filling, 
of milk, essence of vanilla, and 2 oz. of cocoa powder. Cream the butter, 



368 PASTES AND PASTEIES 

sugar, and eggs together in the usual way, and mix in the other ingredients 
all together. Bake in a steady oven, and when cold, mask the top of each 
with hot jelly, and on the top of that spread chocolate fondant. Pipe a star 
of white butter cream on the top of each, and fix in the centre a small silver 
dragde. 

Lisbon Tartlets 

Lisbon tartlets are baked in the same moulds, and filled with two dif- 
ferent kinds of filling, one flavoured with chocolate, and the other with 
Lisbon cofiee. Both are made from the same mixture as used for dtoile 
Tartlets, tartlets. The flavour of each should be pronounced, with the 
chocolate placed in the bottom of the mould, and the coffee on top. Fill 
the moulds, place in the centre half a preserved cherry, and bake in a 
steady oven to a light golden colour. When cold, cover the top of each cake 
with a thin coating of coffee water icing. 

Italian Batons 

To make Italian batons, line some crimp, boat -shaped moulds with 
sweet short paste No. 2. These should be 2| in. long, and 1;^ in. wide in 
Italian the centre. Place in each a little raspberry jam, and partly fill 
Batons, with the same mixture as used for Victoria tartlets. Mix an equal 
quantity of chopped almonds and castor sugar into a soft mixture with 
white of eggs, and with a palette knife spread a thin layer of this on to 
the filling. Dust the top of each with icing sugar, and bake to a light 
golden colour at a temperature of 360° F. These small tartlets eat very 
nice, and the filling does not quickly lose its moisture. A batch of these 
may be made at the commencement of the week's work, and kept in an 
air-tight tin ready for finishing off" as required. A slow oven is necessary 
for the baking, to keep the articles light in colour, and to prevent the fill- 
ing from coming over the sides of the patty pans. When using rich cake 
crumbs, other than those made from stale sponge cakes, for the filling, the 
quantity of butter should be slightly reduced. 

Apple Batons 

Apple batons are made in plain boat-shaped moulds lined with the same 
quality of short paste as for the preceding, into which some apple jam or 
Apple jslly is placed. The tartlets are filled with a mixture consisting 
Batons, ^f 3 q2 butter, 10 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. soft flour, 2 oz. cake 
crumbs, 5 eggs, and a little essence of cloves. Spread in the filling with 
a palette knife, and place two thin strings of short paste across diagonally. 
Bake in a steady oven, and when cold, cover the top of each with thin 
yellow water icing. 

Another variety, known as Cherry batons, is made by adding to the 
Cherry filling 5 OZ. of finely chopped orange peel in place of the clove 
Batons, essence. Spread this mixture into the boat-shaped moulds, pre- 
viously lined with short paste as before. Place on top a few small pieces of 



FANCY TARTLETS 369 

preserved cherries, bake to a light colour, and when cold, mask the top of 
each with a thin coating of pale pink water icing, flavoured with orange. 

Royal Tartlets 

Take some plain boat-shaped moulds with sharp edges, 2| in. long and 
1^ in. wide. Place these side by side on the board, and cover with a thin 
layer of No. 1 short paste. Press this in, and separate the moulds Royal 
by passing the rolling-pin backwards and forwards on top. The Tartlets, 
sharp edges of the moulds will quickly cut through the paste. When 
they are separated remove the paste trimmings, and lay the moulds close 
together again; half-fill each with firm apple jam or jelly. Splash lightly 
with water, and cover in one sheet with a layer of thin puft-paste trim- 
mings. Pass over the rolling-pin, separate the moulds as before, and mask 
the tops with a thin layer of royal icing made without acid. Spread 
this so that it does not run over the side of the moulds. Place a small 
piece of cherry, cut out with a ^-inch plain tube, in the centre of each, 
and bake to a light golden colour. These pastries eat very nice. Some 
and are attractive. For variety, ice them over with variously Varieties, 
coloured royal icing, some covered with white sugar, others with pale 
pink, and the remainder with chocolate. 

Conversation Tartlets 

Conversation tartlets (see Plate, Saleable Shop Pastries, No. 31) are 
prepared in the same manner, made in shallow sharp-edged patty pans, 
2 in. in diameter and | in. deep. Use boiled vanilla custard, Conversation 
or apple jelly in these, and cover with puff-paste trimmings. Tartlets. 
Spread on the royal icing, and across each tartlet place four thin strings 
of short paste as shown in fig. 51. Bake in 
a slow oven till the icing is just tinted a 
light brown. To prevent these pastries from 
drawing in while baking, they should lie out 
for at least twenty minutes before being 

placed in the oven. This resting will give 

the paste a chance to recover from the pin- j-ig. 51.— conversation xartiet 

ning out. The royal icing when baked 

should have a rich gloss, and that made with melted cocoa must be carefully 
mixed, so that no specks of cocoa are shown. If there is any difficulty 
in mixing, owing to the cocoa setting firm in the cold icing, make all 
slightly warm in hot water; and add some caramel colouring to cheapen 

the mixture. 

Rose Tartlets 

To make rose tartlets (fig. 52) line some small cup-shaped moulds 2 in. 
in diameter and 1 in. deep with short paste No. 1. In the centre of each 
place a little lemon curd, and fill with a mixture made t ♦! ♦ 

m the usual way from the followmg ingredients: 8 oz. 
butter, 10 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. fine desiccated cocoanut, 2 oz. soft flour, 





370 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

4 oz. ground almonds, and 5 eggs. Flavour with a little rose water, and 

bake in a steady oven. When quite cold 
make an incision into the filling, by cutting 
from the side of the top to the centre with 
a sharp knife. The cut piece should be thin 
and just half the size of the top of the tart- 
let. Stand this upright on the centre, and 
force out from a paper cornet and star tube 
a rose of pink butter cream on to the cut 
52.-Kose Tartlet Centre. Dust with icing and vanilla sugar 

mixed. 
Another kind of rose tartlet is made by icing the pastries with pink 

Another Reci e ^^^^^^^ flavoured with rose water. They are finished by 
piping on the top a rose made by means of a paper 

cornet from a mixture of pink and white butter cream. 

Melbourne Tartlets 

Line some round pans, as used for conversation tarts, with short paste 
(No. 1), and half -fill with custard flavoured with vanilla and chocolate. 
Melbourne Splash with water, and cover with a thin layer of puff'-paste 
Tartlets. trimmings. Mask with chocolate royal icing, and pipe two lines 
of white icing across, forming the letter X. Bake in a moderate oven 
(about 360° F.). 

Balmoral Tartlets 

Balmoral tartlets are made in small diamond-shaped moulds lined with 
rich short paste (No. 2), and half-filled with a mixture of chopped cherries 
Balmoral and orange peel flavoured with orange -flower water. After 
Tartlets, filling, cover with puff" paste as for Melbourne tartlets; then 
mask with pink royal icing, sprinkle on top some fine desiccated cocoanut, 
and bake to a golden colour. 

Madeira Tartlets 

Madeira tartlets are made in crimp round patty pans, 2 in. in 

diameter and 1 in. deep. These are lined with short paste (No. 1). Prepare 

,. , . ^ , the filling: for these by creaming; together 1 lb. of butter 
Madeira Tartlets. o o 

and 1\ lb. of castor sugar. Beat in gradually ten large 

eggs and stir in 1| lb. of Hungarian flour. Fill in with the bag and 

plain tube; bake in a hot oven (about 420° F.), and when cold mask 

the top with a thin coating of water icing. Finish by adding half a 

preserved cherry on the centre. A cheaper filling for these may be made 

Cheap Filling with the following quantities: 10 oz. of butter substitute, 

for Tartlets. j^ ]]q castor Sugar, 6 eggs, 5 gills milk, 2-|- lb. flour, essence 

of lemon, egg colouring, and 3 oz. No. 1 powder. These may be baked in 

shallow pans 3 in. in diameter, lined with a cheap mixing of short paste. 



RICH SHOP AND BUFFET PASTRIES 371 

Clifton Tartlets 

To make Clifton tartlets weigh into a mixing -bowl 1 lb. of butter, 
1 lb. of butter substitute, and \ lb. of castor sugar. Cream these well 
together until the mixture is very light and soft. Stir ^^^^^^^ Tartlets. 
in without overworking 2 lb. of Hungarian flour with 
a little orange powder, or the zest of three oranges. With the bag and a 
i-in. star tube force a little of the paste into crimp pans 2\ in. in diameter 
to three-quarters fill them, and bake in a hot oven (430° F.). The paste 
should be forced in by holding the bag upright and bringing the paste 
to a point. Turn out on a wire tray when baked, and when cold 
dust the tops with icing sugar, and place small pieces of cherry in their 
centres. 



CHAPTER LXVI 

RICH SHOP AND BUFFET PASTRIES 
Tricoloured Fancies 

Tricoloured fancies are made with Shrewsbury biscuit paste, together 
with jelly and two kinds of fondant. This paste is simply a soft dough, 
consisting of 1^ lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, 10 oz. castor sugar, and 2 eggs. 
Pin the paste to ^ in. thick, and cut the number of pieces Tricoloured 
required with a 2|-in. crimp cutter, and lay these upon a Fancies, 
baking sheet splashed with water. Allow half to remain quite plain, and 
with a \-m. plain cutter cut three small round pieces out of the centre of 
each of the others. Bake in a hot oven (400° F.), and when cold sandwich 
the plain and cut biscuits together with apricot jam. Fill the small holes 
with red jelly, white fondant, and chocolate fondant; each biscuit will thus 
show three separate colours. 

Jelly Rings 

For jelly rings pin some Shrewsbury paste to J^ in. thick. Cut out 
with an oval crimp cutter 3 in. long and 1^ in. wide, and place all upon a 
baking sheet. Cut from half of these a small piece of paste 
with a plain oval cutter 1^ in. long and f in. wide. Bake in 
a hot oven. Sandwich the biscuits together with apricot jelly, placing the 
oval ring on top. Fill in the oval centre with apple or red apricot jelly, 
and sprinkle some green cocoanut on each. These rings may be made in 
various shapes, cut with plain or crimp cutters. If clear jelly is used for 
the filling, they have a showy appearance, and are nice to eat. Bake the 
biscuits just enough to colour the edge, and to leave the centres almost 
white; this will show the clear-coloured jelly to better advantage. 



372 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Viennese Pastries 

Cream together till very light and soft 1 lb. of fresh butter and ^ lb. of 
icing sugar. Add 1 oz. of vanilla sugar, and mix in without beating 1 lb. 
Viennese of soft flour. Prepare some small crimp-edged patty pans 2 in. 
Pastries, jn diameter and 1 in. deep, and with a bag and a |-in. star tube 
force part of the paste into each. Press this into the pans to represent a 
small rosette by holding the bag upright and giving this a sharp turn, 
when the clear marks in the paste caused by the tube will show distinctly. 
Place the pans on a baking sheet, and stand in a cool place for about one 
hour, so that the paste may set quite firm. Bake in a hot oven (400° F.), 
and when cold remove from the pans, dust with icing sugar, and with a 
paper bag pipe in the centres some bright-coloured raspberry jam. This 
paste requires careful preparation. It is very short. The butter must be 
made quite soft, but not oiled, before the flour is mixed. 

Anglo-Swiss Cakes 

Pin out to I in. thick some Shrewsbury biscuit paste, cut out with a 
round crimp cutter 2^ in. in diameter, and lay on a baking sheet lightly 
Anglo- Swiss splashed with water. With a forcing-bag and a :^-in. star 
Cakes. ^ube pipe on each biscuit a border of paste as used for Viennese 

pastries. Allow these to rest in a cool place for an hour, and then bake in 
a hot oven (about 400° F.). Fill in the centres, when cold, with partly set 
red apricot jelly, and sprinkle some chopped pistachio nuts over each. 
Various coloured fondants may be used with fine eflfect for filling in these 
cakes, and they are then decorated with preserved cherries and angelica. 

Colonial Cakes 

Colonial cakes are made by cutting out a thin bottom of Shrewsbury 
paste with a round plain cutter 3 in. in diameter. Lay the pieces on a 
splashed baking sheet, wash over with egg, and pipe on 
each a border of Viennese paste, as given above; also pipe 
a piece of paste across the centre, and bake in a hot oven (about 400° F.). 
When cold, fill in one side with raspberry and the other with greengage 
jam. 

Vanilla Bateaux 

Line some boat-shaped moulds 2| in. long and | in. deep with a thin 
layer of sweet short paste (No. 2). Pipe in 
Vanilla each a little raspberry jam, and fill 
Bateaux, -vvith frangipane paste (see Victoria 
Tarts, p. 340) flavoured with vanilla. Bake 
to a golden colour in a moderate oven (about 

380° F.). When quite cold, cut the top of fig. 53.— Vanilla Bateau 

each at both sides with a sharp knife; then 

raise these pieces, which should be quite thin, and pipe between these and 

the bottom part of the cake with a bag and small star tube some whipped 




MERINGUE PASTRIES 



373 



vanilla cream. Place along the centres some finely chopped roasted 
almonds, as shown in fig. 53. These choice pastries may, when required, 
be made more showy by piping in white cream on one side and pink on 
the other, with a small handle of angelica stretching over from each end 
so as to give the appearance of a basket. 



CHAPTER LXVII 

MERINGUE PASTRIES 

Cold rueringue is made by beating eight egg whites quite stift", and 
mixing into these with a wooden spoon 1 lb. of fine-grained castor sugar, 

Italian meringue is made with boiled sugar and egg whites, and is 
useful for making various kinds of large and small pastries. It is prepared 
as follows. Place into a small copper sugar-boiler 1 lb. of lump Italian 
sugar together with 1 gill of water, and boil up to a temperature Menngue. 
of 245^ F.; then remove the sugar from the stove. Place eight large whites 
in a mixing-bowl, and beat up until they become quite firm. Add about 
1 oz, of castor sugar, and continue the whisking. Raise the Boiling Sugar 
whisk from the whites, and if these stand perfectly upright ^°^ Meringue. 
in the bowl without signs of being greasy, stir in the hot sugar, which 
should be poured in gradually by an assistant. When carefully made, this 
meringue is very light. The sugar should on no account be poured into 
whites which are soft or appear to be greasy, as the resultant meringue 
would be soft and flabby. Another method of making this hot Another 
meringue is by mixing together in the sponge machine 2h lb. of Meringue 
w^arm castor sugar and 1 pt. of egg whites. These quantities ^>^*"''^- 
make a good meringue, but not so light as that made by hand or machine 
with boiled sugar. 

Fanchonette Pastries 

These small pastries (see Plate, 
Dessert Fancies, No. 6) are made 

with Maid of Honour fill- Fanchonette 

ing (see p. 352), masked Pastries, 
over with cold meringue, and decorated 






Vol.. I. 



Fig. 54.— Fanchonette Pastries 



48 



374 



PASTES AND PASTEIES 



with plain and red apricot jelly. Line some round shallow pans, as used 
for conversation tartlets, with unsweetened short paste (No. 1), and half- 
fill with filling made as follows. Mix together in a mixing-bowl with a 
whisk ^ lb. ground almonds, 1 lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. vanilla sugar or a little 
essence, and 8 eggs. When this mixture has been beaten well together for 
a few minutes, mix with it ^ lb. clarified butter. Bake in a steady oven 
about 380° F., and when cold spread over each a thick layer of meringue. 
With a paper cornet filled with meringue, pipe on some design Mdiich is 
quickly made, as shown in fig. 54. Dust the top with icing sugar, and 
bake to a light golden colour. When cold, fill in each design with 
boiled apricot jelly, part plain and the remainder coloured with carmine. 
It is necessary to have the meringue as firm as possible for this purpose. 



Lemon Souffle. 



Lemon Souffle 

Another kind of pastry made with the 
same material is known as Lemon soujfie. 
Prepare some bottoms as for 
fanchonettes, and with a bag 
and a |-in. plain tube force on each a bulb 
of meringue, as shown in fig. 55; sprinkle on 
top some thin filleted almonds, dust with 
icing sugar, and bake in a steady oven for a 
few minutes to colour the meringue slightly. 
These pastries may be made at less cost by 
filling the bottoms with apple jam instead of 
using frangipane paste, also using shredded 
cocoanut in place of filleted almonds. 




Fig. 55.— Lemon SouflS^ 



Marses. 



Marses 

Bake on a baking sheet splashed with water a narrow band of thin 
puff'-paste trimmings 3 in. wide. This should be docked to prevent blisters. 

After baking, mask with a 

thin layer of raspberry jam. 
When cold, spread on this a layer of 
meringue, entirely covering the paste, 
and raised to a height of 1;^ in. With 
a palette knife level the top and smooth 
the sides; have the latter nearly per- 
pendicular. With a paper cornet filled 
with meringue, pipe along each border 
two lines | in. apart, as shown in fig. 56. 
Dust with icing sugar, and divide into 

sections 1^ in. wide by cutting through the meringue with a piece of twine 
or thin straw. When the divisions are being made, care should be taken 




Kig. 56.— Marse 



MERINGUE PASTRIES 



375 



not to spoil the appearance of the meringue. This may be done by holding 
the narrow piece of twine with both hands over the pastry, and Marking 
pressing this through the meringue down to the paste bottom. Parses. 
Draw the twine quickly through, and repeat the operation until all is 
equally divided. Bake for a few minutes in a steady oven until the 
meringue is slightly tinted. When cold, fill in between the border lines 
with red apricot jelly, and with a sharp knife, occasionally cleaned with 
a wet cloth, cut into pieces at the marks already made. Dividing the 
meringue is easy on account of the marks made on it with the twine 
before baking, as the baked sugar forms a crust which cannot readily be 
cut through unless divided into sections in this manner. This is known as 
marse, and is often seen in confectioners' shops on the Continent. 

Another style of marse is made by raising the meringue to 2 in. in 
height upon the paste, and bringing this to an angle ^^q^jj^^ Variety 
raised up well in the centre. Dust with sugar, divide, of Marse. 
and bake in a steady oven. 

Venice Bateaux 

Line some sharp-edged boat-shaped patty pans, 2| in. long and 1 in. 
wide, with short paste (No. 1). Add a little raspberry jam to each; then 

fill with frangipane made Venice 
with part ground almonds Bateaux, 
and part cake crumbs, and bake in 
an oven about 380° F. When cold, 
spread a layer of meringue over it, 
and with the same mixture pipe some 
lines as shown in fig. 57. Dust with 
icing sugar, and bake to a light 
golden colour; when cold, fill in the 
lines with chocolate fondant or red 
apricot jelly, and place a silver dragee 
at each end. 

Quite a large variety of choice 
pastries may be made in fancy- 
shaped moulds with frangipane and cold meringue. Very little decoration 
is required. They will remain fresh for several days, and ^^^ ^^ 
make a nice display for a shop window or counter. The Frangipane 
meringue should not be used in a thick layer, especially if ^" enngue. 
the pastries may be in stock longer than one day. The thin layer will 
partly dry through while baking, and is not liable to shrink so readily 
with keeping as it does when thick. 





Fig. 57.— Venice Bateaux 



CocoANUT Fingers 

Dress some baking sheets with clarified fat, and dust lightly with flour. 
Then pipe on with a forcing-bag and a |-in. plain tube some finger-shaped 



376 PASTES AND PASTEIES 

pieces of meringue. Cover all with desiccated cocoanut, and place in a 
Cocoanut drying cupboard for two hours to set them. Bake in a cold oven 
Fingers, (about 310° F.). To make a variety of these meringues, cover 
one-third with white cocoanut, another third with pink, and the remainder 
with pale green. (See Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 8.) 

Coffee and Chocolate Fingers 

Coffee and chocolate-flavoured meringue fingers are made by adding a 
small quantity of strong coffee and vanilla essence to the first, while the 
Flavoured ™eringue for the others is flavoured with melted unsweetened 
Meringue cocoa and a little vanilla sugar. Vanilla sugar is much better 
mgers. ^^^ flavouring the chocolate goods, and the small dark seeds of 
the vanilla are not easily detected. Lay these biscuits out with a bag and 
a ^-in. star tube. 

Mascots 

Another kind of chocolate finger is known under the name of mascot 
(see Plate, Fancy Meringues, Nos. 13, 14). Extra chocolate is added to the 

mixture prepared for these articles, and the full flavour of vanilla 
Ivl^scots. 

is obtained by boiling a small piece of bean with the sugar. Pre- 
pare some hot baking sheets, cover them with a thin coating of bee's-wax 
smoothed over with paper. When quite cold and the wax set, lay out the 
mascots with a bag and a ^-in. plain tube. Place at once in a cool oven, 
and as soon as a crust is formed on top take out from the oven and remove 
Waxed ^^® biscuits with a broad palette knife. It is necessary that these 
Baking should be taken from the baking sheets while warm, as the wax 
^^*^" will quickly set, and the biscuits will stick quite firm. When 
there is any difficulty in removing them from the baking sheet, stand this 
on the oven stock to melt the wax. The addition of extra chocolate will 
cause these articles to run slightly while baking, but with care in preparing 
the mixture they ought to remain of a good shape and have a rich gloss 
on top; but they should remain moist inside. On this account they are 
generally made to order and not stocked as others may be which are partly 
dried before baking. 

Meringue Fancies 

Several kinds of small fancy articles are made with Italian meringue 
and covered with hot apricot j'elly (see Plate, Dessert Fancies). These 
Meringue are mostly made upon a base of light Genoese (No. 4) gateau 
Fancies. paste and retailed at 2d. each. The meringue, piped on differ- 
ently shaped pieces of cake, is first partly dried in a hot closet, then masked 
with hot apricot jelly, either plain or coloured with carmine, and the lower 
cake part is covered with finely chopped roasted almonds or desiccated 
cocoanut. 



MERINGUE PASTRIES 



377 



Rose Fancies 

By using a small star tube and bag, rose fancies (see Plate, Fancy 
Meringues, No. 12) are made by piping on a round base a rose of meringue. 
This is dried for one hour and then covered with jelly. Half 
a preserved cherry is placed in the centre, and white cocoa- 
nut around the base, which has previously also been masked in jelly. 

Meringue Pyramid 

The pyramid of meringue that is piped on a boat-shaped piece of paste 
(see Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 1) to represent a bunch of grapes, is 
piped on with a bag and a ;|-in. plain tube. To prevent these Meringue 
articles from being sticky, the clear apricot pulp should be boiled Pyramid, 
to the thread degree, and the jam tested for this purpose by working 
a little between the thumb and the forefinger. When ready for use, the 
hot jelly will form a thread as the finger is raised from the thumb. To 
cover the pastries, these may be dipped into the jelly, using a Dipping 
fork for the purpose, or if the base is too soft to allow this to Fancies, 
be done, place them on a draining wire, and pour the jam over with an 
iron spoon. Remove from the wire as soon as possible; spread the jam 
evenly around the base of the cake, and cover this with Methods of 
cocoanut or almonds as described. Very little jam is needed Masking 
to make the almonds adhere to the cake. If it is placed on ^'^ "'^"^' 
thick, it looks messy and unsightly. Decorate the top of each piece with 
chopped pisttichio nuts or coloured cocoanut. 



Meringue Peaches 

Another way of preparing meringue pastries, as shown in the illustra- 
tion of Peach Meringue (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 2), is to pipe 

meringue on to gateau paste or on Meringue 
a base made with short paste and Peaches, 
frangipane filling, in various fruit shapes. 
These may then be covered with white or 
coloured fondants. To make these q^, ^^ 
goods more showy, colour the fon- Meringue 
dant when dry by rubbing on the '""'^s. 
sides a piece of cotton wool dipped into a 
mixture of two parts corn flour and one part 
carmine powder. Very little practice will 
soon enable the young confectioner to master 
these details. The incision down the centre 
of the peaches may be made with the back 
of a small knife as soon as the meringue begins to dry, or made while 
this is soft with a modelling tool previously dipped in water to prevent 
the meringue from sticking to it (see fig. 58). 




Fig. 58.— Peach Tartlet 



378 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Boston Pastries 

Boston pastries are made in round shallow patty pans 2 in. in 

diameter, and lined with short paste (No. 1). In the centre of each 

„ ^ . place a little apple iam, and fill with a mixture made bv 

Boston Pastries. ^ . . i i • i -n t r, 

moistenmg cake crumbs with milk, and flavouring with 

vanilla. The consistency should be about the same as that of Banbury meat. 

Bake in an oven about 380° F., and, when cold, pipe with a ^-in. plain tube 

a bulb of Italian meringue on each, so as to cover the filling entirely. Place 

in a hot cupboard for two hours to dry; then, when cold, dip the top of 

each piece into chocolate fondant to cover the meringue. This is done by 

holding the pastry upside down and dipping sufficiently into the fondant, 

so that when the article is placed upon the wire tray the chocolate is of 

the same depth all round, and with no tendency to run down the sides. 

Sprinkle some green cocoanut, or roasted cocoanut mixed with green 

sugar nibs, on top. Another way of adding the fondant is to pipe it as a 

scroll with a paper cornet, and to place a small silver dragee in the centre. 

Cocoanut Pyramids 

Cocoanut pyramids are made by adding 2 lb. of coarse, desiccated or 
chopped, shredded cocoanut to the mixture of Italian meringue made with 
Cocoanut 1 pt. of egg whites. This should be mixed in as soon as the 
Pyramids, meringue is ready. Dress some baking sheets with clarified 
butter; then dust with flour, and lay out the meringues, pyramid -shape, 
with a fork. Dry in a warm cupboard for two hours, and finish baking in 
a cold oven (about 310° F.). The mixture may be divided before mixing 
in the cocoanut, part coloured coffee, and part with carmine. These should 
remain in the oven only until they slightly crack at the bottom, and are 
easily removed from the baking sheets. 

Neapolitan Pyramids 

Other cocoanut pyramids are made by mixing 1 lb. of desiccated cocoa- 
nut with 1^ lb. of castor sugar into a stiff" paste with egg whites. Dress 
Stiff Paste for *^^ baking sheets with fat and flour, or cover with wafer 
Cocoanut paper. Place pieces of the paste on them, and shape to a 

Pyramids. point with the fingers. Allow these to lie overnight in the 

bakehouse, and bake next day in a hot oven (about 440° F.). These 
pyramids, called Neapolitans, need only remain in the oven until the point 
Neapolitan of each has taken colour. When they are made very small, 
Pyramids, ^q ^q\[ \)y weight, they should be in several delicate colours, 
about 11 in. high, and baked in a cooler oven (about 340° F.). Mixed 
together, they make a nice display, and are good enough to place on a 
buffet table with dessert biscuits. (See Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 13.) 



TYPES OF DESSERT FANCIES 



1. 


Mocha Slice. 


13- 


Neapohtan. 


2. 


Almond Peach. 


14. 


Cream Basket. 


3- 


Fancy Meringue. 


15- 


Avondale Creams. 


4- 


Almond Tartlets. 


16. 


Masked Genoise. 


5- 


Rognon. 


17- 


Almond Cream. 


6. 


Fanchonette. 


18. 


Fancy Meringue. 


7- 


Cocoanut Tartlets. 


19- 


Bouche Citron. 


8. 


Fancy Cream Bun. 


20. 


Raspberry Gateau. 


9- 


Panier en Genoise. 


21. 


Bouche Macedoine. 


lO. 


Fancy Meringue. 


22. 


Bonne Bouche. 


II. 


Fancy Meringue. 


23- 


Cream Buns. 


12. 


Surprise. 


24. 


Bouche Chocolat. 



:i3 










v<»ji6r- 



J 



V 










W' 




13 




14 



■^. 






17 



19 



CI 








23 



24 



TYPES OF DESSERT FANCIES 



COCOANUT AND ALMOND PASTKIES 379 

CHAPTER LXVIII 

COCOANUT AND ALMOND PASTRIES 

CocoANUT Rocks 

Cocoanut rocks made from the following recipe have a rich gloss, and 
eat soft without being sticky. Weigh into a copper or brass preserving 
pan 2 lb. of coarse or shredded cocoanut and 4 lb. of castor cocoanut 
sugar. Mix in 5 gills of egg whites and 1^ oz. of ground rice Rocks, 
mixed with | gill of water. Mix all well together, place over a steady fire, 
and keep the mixture stirred with a wooden spoon until it boils. Remove 
at once from the stove, and with two forks lay the paste out rock-shape 
upon wafer paper. Place half of a bright preserved cherry on the centre 
of each, and bake to a light golden colour at a temperature of about 
380° F. The pan used for preparing the mixture must have a thick 
bottom; the mixture must also be kept constantly stirred in the pan to 
prevent burning. Sometimes these rocks bake with a dull, dry appearance. 
This is generally caused by the sugar graining in the mixing-bowl ; to pre- 
vent it, keep the ingredients well in the body of the pan, and the sides 
quite free. This does not require any beating whatever; just keep all on 
the move to avoid burning, as it contains plenty of sugar and little 
moisture. 

Madrid Rocks 

From this same mixture Madrid rocks may be made. These are also 
decorated with a piece of preserved cherry. Line some plain, oval, sharp- 
edged patty pans with short paste (No. 1), as for conver- 
sation tartlets, by pressing the paste into the moulds from 
a sheet of dough placed over them as they stand together on the board. 
The pans should be about 2^ in. long and 1^ in. wide. Put a little apple 
jam in the centre with a paper cornet, and fill with the mixture prepared 
for cocoanut rock cakes. Place on the piece of cherry, and bake at a 
temperature of about 380° F. Allow the cocoanut mixing to cool slightly 
for a few minutes before using. 

Berlin Slices 

For Berlin slices place on a baking sheet some bands of German 
dough, pinned out to ^ in. thick and 3 in. wide. Pinch the border of 
each strip and spread over some apple jam. Partly bake 
in a hot oven (about 420° F.). Along the centre of each 
strip, to within | in. of each side, spread a thick layer of the cocoanut 
mixture as prepared for rocks, but made with coarse shredded cocoanut. 
Place aside to lie all night, and bake next day in a hot oven (about 400° F.). 
These should be very little coloured. They are cut into strips 1| in. wide 
when partly cooled. This mixture of cocoanut, if coloured with egg colour 



380 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

or with a few yolks, will have a richer appearance. It is advisable to stab 
the paste before baking, to prevent blistering. 

Princess Fancies 

Weigh the following ingredients: 6 oz. of plain flour sifted with 2 oz. 

of corn flour, and 8 oz. of castor sugar mixed with 2 oz. of vanilla sugar. 

^ , ^ . Place 14 large yolks in a mixing-bowl, add the suofar, 

Princess x^sncies. <rj v ci o ' 

and cream these together with a spoon until the grain 

of the yolks is thoroughly broken. Whisk ten large egg whites quite 
firm, beat in about 1 oz. of the sugar to prevent their curdling, begin to 
mix the flour into the yolk batter with a wooden spoon or spatula, and 
at the same time add small portions of the whipped whites, until the whole 
of the ingredients are formed into a smooth light mixture. If the flour has 
been thoroughly mixed with the yolks before the whites are added, the 
mixture will become heavy. Both must be about the same consistency, 
and this is obtained when the flour is partly mixed in. Cover some baking 
sheets with white paper, and with a forcing-bag and a |-in. plain tube lay 
out the batter in rounds about 2 in. in diameter. Sprinkle some coarse 
desiccated cocoanut over them. With a paper-bag pipe a little bright- 
coloured i-aspberry jam in the centres of only half of the pieces laid out; 
then bake in a steady oven about 370° F. to a light golden colour. When 
cold remove the cakes and sandwich together with raspberry jam; the plain 
piece should be at the bottom, with the other containing the baked jam on 
top. Remove the loose cocoanut from the paper, and keep this for deco- 
rating the sides of other goods. These fancies must not be overbaked or 
the raspberry jam will be dark and dull; at the same time they must 
be dried sufficiently, or they will sink in the centre, as the mixture is a 
light one. 

Princess Finger Biscuits 

Princess finger biscuits are made from the same mixing. Lay these 
out upon papered baking sheets with a bag and a |-in. plain tube 3 in. 
Princess Finger long. Pipe a thin line of apple or red apricot jelly along 
Biscuits. ^he centre of each biscuit, and cover with chopped shredded 

cocoanut. Bake at a temperature of about 370° F. and sandwich together 
with raspberry jam or jelly. 

Chemin de Fer 

For these fancies lay on a baking sheet some bands of German dough 

(see p. 338) 3 in. wide and ^ in. thick. Stab with the point of a sharp 

. , ^ knife, and partly bake in a hot oven (about 400° F.). 

Chemm de Fer. _,' ^. '^„, , ,.. , 

Prepare a mixture oi almond paste by mixing together 
1 lb. of ground almonds, 1 lb. of fine-grained castor sugar, about 5 whites, 
and a little vanilla essence. Slightly warm the mixture in a bowl over 
a pan of hot water (bain-marie). With a forcing-bag and a :^-in. star 
tube pipe out along the border of each strip of half-baked German dough 
a line of almond paste. Lay another down the centre. Allow these to 



COCOANUT AI^I) ALMOND PASTRIES 381 

lie for an hour or so until the almond paste has a skin formed on it; then 
bake for a few minutes in a hot oven (about 450° F.) to colour the almond 
mixing slightly. When cold, fill in one side with white fondant, and the 
other side with red jelly or with another kind and colour of fondant. 
Cut into slices 1^ in. wide. It is not advisable to bake the slices in a very 
cold oven, for in that case the almond paste, instead of being soft inside, 
will bake hard and break when the strips are being cut. Fairly soft wine- 
biscuit paste may be used for piping on to the band of German dough 
instead of the almond paste, to cheapen these pastries, but whatever is 
used for the purpose must be firm enough for the marks made by the 
star tube to show clearly after baking. A cheaper almond paste for slices 
is made by mixing together on the board, as for biscuit dough, 1 lb. of 
flour, I lb. fine-grained castor sugar, 3 oz. ground almonds, 5 oz. butter, 

3 eggs, and a little vanilla essence. 

Bedford Bateaux 

Bedford bateaux are made by mixing together 8 oz. of stale sponge- 
cake crumbs, 8 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. corn flour, and 3 oz. ground almonds. 

Whisk twelve whites quite firm, beat in eight yolks, then „ ,, , ^ 

, ^ -. _ ^ J ' Bedford Bateaux, 

stir in lightly the dry ingredients, flavour with vanilla 

essence, and mix in, without working the mixture more than is necessary, 

4 oz. of warm clarified butter. Line some boat-shaped, shallow patty pans 
with short paste (No. 2). Drop a little raspberry jam in the centre of each, 
and fill with the prepared mixture. Spread level with a palette knife. 
Bake in a steady oven about 360° F. When cold, mask first with hot 
apricot jelly and then with thin coffee fondant. Decorate each cake with 
a small piece of bright cherry, and two diamond-shaped pieces of angelica. 
With this filling several very choice pastries may be made. It is very 
light, and, if carefully prepared, may be profitably used for many fancies 
to retail at Id. each. 

Coffee Squares 

For coffee squares take some small square crimp-edged moulds, with the 
centres slightly raised, and line with short paste (No. 1). Pipe a little 
greengage jam on the bottom, and with a palette knife 
fill with the mixing used for Bedford bateaux. Bake in 
a steady oven about 360° F., and when cold turn upside down on a wire 
tray. With a paper cornet fill in the hollow with a drop of coflfee fondant. 
Cut out a small piece of cherry with a ;^-in. plain round cutter, and place 
this on the fondant. 

Chocolate Squares 

To make chocolate squares flavour the mixture with 2 oz. of cocoa 
powder, besides adding the vanilla essence. When baked, mask the tops 
with a thin layer of hot jelly, and cover with a mixture 
of granulated chocolate and a little pale-green cocoanut 
or pistachio nut. These small pastries may also be covered with small 

Vol. I. 49 



382 PASTES AND PASTEIES 

stars of butter cream piped on with a star tube, the star brought up to a 
point. Sprinkle green cocoanut over, or place a silver dragee in the centre. 



CHAPTER LXIX 

BONNES BOUCHfiES 



Chocolate Bouchees- 

To make chocolate bouchees (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 24) whisk 
ten quite lirm whites, beat in fourteen yolks, and with a wooden spoon 
Chocolate stir into this light batter 4 oz. of corn flour, 4 oz. of plain flour, 
Bouchees. g q2. of castor sugar, 2 oz. of vanilla sugar, and 2 oz. of cocoa 
powder. These ingredients should be carefully shaken in from a piece 
of paper while mixing, to keep this as light as possible. With a forcing- 
bag and a |-in. plain tube pipe the bouchees out about If in. in diameter 
on papered baking sheets. Bake in a steady oven about 380° F., with the 
door partly open, until the biscuits are fairly dry. Remove them from the 
paper and sandwich together with chocolate butter cream. Bi-ush over 
with hot apricot jelly, or with gum arable, and drop them upon a heap of 
granulated chocolate. While this covering is being brushed on, an assistant 
should roll the bouchees at once on the chocolate before the jelly sets firm. 
Cover these entirely with chocolate, and finish by sprinkling over them a 
little finely chopped pistachio nut. 

Lemon Bouchiees 

To make lemon bouchdes (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 19) flavour 

the mixture with the zest of two lemons instead of chocolate, and sandwich 

„ , , the cakes together with lemon -flavoured butter cream. 
Lemon Bouchees. . 

Mask over with hot apricot jelly, cover the sides with 

desiccated cocoanut, and in the centre pipe a small narcissus, or round 

piece of thin lemon peel cut with a plain cutter. 

Neapolitan Bouchees 

Neapolitan bouchees are prepared in the same way as the above. When 
masked with jelly, pipe three thin lines of royal icing on each to divide 
Neapolitan the bouchees into three spaces of equal size. Fill these divisions 
Bouchees. [yi with white, pink, and chocolate fondant; place a silver dragee 
on the centre, and drop into small white paper cases. These take longer 
to prepare, but are well worth this extra labour, and make a very showy 
article for serving with other decorated cakes. In the preparation of these 
bouchees, and all light mixtures laid out with the bag and tube, it is 
necessary that they should be made quite round and finished ofi" with a 
smooth surface before baking. The forcing-bag should be held perfectly 
upright when piping them on to the baking sheet. 



BONNES BOUCHEES 383 

BOUCHlfeES d'Orange 

Bouchees d'Orange are made in diamond-shaped patty pans, lined with 
short paste (No. 2) and filled with marmalade and the mixture as prepared 
for lemon bouchees, but flavoured with the zest of three oranges. Bouchees 
Fill in with the bag and tube, and place small diamond-shaped d'Orange. 
pieces of orange peel in their centres. Bake at a temperature of about 
370° F. When cold, brush over the top of each piece with some thin 
orange-flavoured fondant or water icing. 

Bouchees MAciDOiNES 

Bouchees Mac6doines (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 21) are made 
in small crimp-edged patty pans lined with sweet, short paste, and filled 
with frangipane filling, into which is mixed chopped pre- Bouchees 
served fruits, such as cherries, greengages, and apricots, with Macedoines. 
filleted almonds placed on top. After baking, the pieces are covered with 
plain or red apricot jelly as desired; a little pistachio nut or green 
cocoanut is placed in the centre, with roasted shredded r t, 

cocoanut around the border. Another name for these 
articles is Bonnes Bouches (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 22), an appro- 
priate name, since its meaning is "dainty morsels". Where other than 
jelly is required for masking over, use weak fondant, or water icing, in 
two or three colours for variety. 

Lemontines 

For lemontines weigh into a mixing-bowl or sponge machine 9 oz. 

of castor sugar; mix in eighteen yolks and ten whole eggs, and beat up 

warm as for sponge-cake batter. Continue whisking until , 

Lctnontincs* 
this becomes quite cold, then remove the whisk and stir in 

very lightly with a wooden spoon 7 oz. of Vienna flour and the finely 

chopped zest of three lemons. Paper some baking sheets with white paper, 

and with a forcing-bag and |-in. plain tube lay out the batter in small 

drops If in. in diameter. Dust thoroughly with icing sugar from a muslin 

bag, and bake in a moderate oven (about 370° F.). Remove the biscuits 

from the paper and sandwich them together with whipped cream flavoured 

with lemon, or with a thin layer of lemon curd. These articles if carefully 

prepared should be fully 1 in. at least in height. This is a very light 

mixing, and if the drops are covered w^ell with icing sugar, they will have 

a smooth glossy appearance when baked. Another method of finishing 

is to sandwich them together with chocolate-flavoured cream. Pipe on 

top a curl of chocolate fondant, and place a small silver dragee in the 

centre to finish the decoration. 



884 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

CHAPTER LXX 

PULPS AND BUTTER CREAMS 

Apricot Pulp and Jelly 

To prepare apricot pulp take 10 lb. of preserved apricot puree, and rub 
it through a fine wire sieve. Then boil it along with 10 lb. of lump or 
Preparation I^^^^h crushed sugar for fifteen minutes. This is known as 
of Apricot apricot pulp, to distinguish it from ordinary apricot jam. 
^" P" If boiled to the thread degree, it will, when cold, set in the 

form of a jelly. It is very useful for all kinds of fancy confectionery, 
especially those covered with fondant. Besides flavouring the cakes, it 
helps the fondant to retain its gloss longer than it otherwise would. To 
boil this to the jelly or thread degree, place the quantity of pulp required 
into a small copper or brass pan, and boil for a few minutes until this 
easily threads when tested by working a little between the thumb and 
forefinger. During this second boiling the pulp should not be overworked 
in the pan; otherwise it will very quigkly become cloudy and useless for 
What makes covering such goods as meringue fancies. Keep it gently 
Pulp Cloudy, stirred only, and remove from the stove as soon as ready. 
Care should be taken in testing, for if over-cooked it will become tough 
and leathery, and also be discoloured. If boiled too little it has a tendency 
Discoloured ^^ soak into the covered articles instead of remaining in a 
Pulp or Jelly, jelly state on the top. The jelly may be stiffened on occasions 
by the use of a little melted gelatine, if it will not set properly otherwise. 

Butter Creams 

Butter cream has been referred to as a decoration for some of the small 
articles; and as this is an important agent in fancy confectionery, recipes 
Obi ction to ^^^' ^^^^^^S ^^^ various sorts are here given. Within the 
Imitation last few years it has been used more or less, where 

utter reams. pQggjbig^ ^g g, substitute for ordinary cream. The one 
objection that the public have to it is, that it is often made with other 
than fresh butter, and in consequence it eats greasy. Cheap or stale 
butter should on no account be employed for this purpose. Even when 
newly made with these ingredients, butter creams have a peculiar twang, 
which becomes more pronounced after the articles have been on sale for a 
few hours. When this cream is used for sandwiching purposes, it should 
be made very light, almost like cream itself. This is not necessary when 
it is used for decorating purposes. Four recipes are given here which 
may be relied upon. These are numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4 for reference. 

To make No. 1, beat 1 lb. of fresh butter with a whisk till it is soft 
Butter Cream, and light. Then stir in 14 oz. of icing sugar and 2 oz. 
^°- ^' of corn flour, add the flavouring required, and beat all 

together for a few moments longer, when it will be ready for use. If the 



GENOESE PASTRIES 385 

butter is at all firm, it will be necessary to warm it slightly on the oven 
stock. 

To make No. 2 butter cream, boil together 1 lb. of lump sugar and 
1 gill of water to 240° F. (tested with sugar thermometer). Break the 
grain of twelve egg yolks with a whisk in a mixing-bowl. Butter Cream, 
and into this quickly beat the hot syrup. When cold, beat ^°- ^• 
this mixture of boiled sugar and yolks into 1| lb. of butter beaten up to a 
light creamy consistence. This cream is useful for small and large Mocha 
cakes and gateaux, in which butter cream is an essential constituent. To 
flavour butter cream for Mocha cakes, add some coffee essence flavoured 
with vanilla. 

Another cream, to be called No. 3, is made by mixing cold boiled 
custard with the creamed butter. This method is frequently adopted by 
confectioners on the Continent. Any boiled custard con- Butter Cream, 
taining flour, or that prepared for ices, made with eggs, ^°- 3- 
sugar, and milk, may be used. Where the custard has to be specially made, 
take 1 pt. of milk, 12 oz. of castor sugar, 12 yolks, and 2 eggs, g ^j^, 
and mix all together with a whisk. Stand this mixture over Custard for 
the stove in a saucepan, and, when the custard coats the spatula ^'■^^"^• 
or wooden spoon with which it is stirred, turn it at once into a cold basin. 
Beat 1| lb. of fresh butter quite light and soft, and work the custard into 
this when cold. 

No. 4 is a very light butter cream. It is made by mixing together 
butter beaten very light and a cold mixture of Italian meringue. Add 
meringue enough to sweeten, and to give a light mixture. Butter Cream 
This is an excellent substitute for ordinary fresh cream. ^°- 4- 
This cream, being very light, may be used for sandwiching various kinds 
of cakes, or as a filling for eclairs and cream buns. 



CHAPTEE LXXI 

GENOESE PASTEIES 

Venice Fingers 

Prepare a piece of gateau paste (Genoese) the size required and 1 in. 
thick. Split in two, and sandwich together with apple jam or red 
currant jelly. Spread a thin layer of apricot pulp on . 

top, and cover this with a mixture of equal parts finely 
chopped almonds and castor sugar, made into a paste with yolks of eggs 
and flavoured with vanilla essence. A thin coating of this almond mix- 
ture is required. Mark the top part of the cake into sections 
by cutting through the almond mixture only, and bake in a 
fairly hot oven, so that the paste acquires a golden colour. When cold, 



386 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

cut the cake at the divisions marked, so that each piece is about 3 in. 
long and 1 in. wide. A sharp knife should be used. 

Cherbourg Creams 

Line some round, shallow, sharp -edged patty pans with No. 2 short 
paste, in the manner described for conversation tartlets. Half-fill those 
with a mixture consisting of half cake crumbs and 
half ground almonds, mixed to a paste with milk and 
whipped cream in equal proportions, and flavoured with rose water. Cover 
with a thin layer of pufF- paste trimmings; mask with royal icing; then 
pipe two cross lines of pink and two lines with chocolate icing. Bake in 
a steady oven at 380° F. The icing used for these and similar articles 
made in small moulds must not be very thin, as otherwise it readily 
runs over the pans while baking. 

Mixed Fruit Slices 

On a baking sheet lay long strips of German dough (see p. 338), 3 in. 
wide and a little more than ^ in. thick. Leave \ in. space between each 
Mixed Fruit ^wo strips. Dock the dough with the point of a sharp knife. 
Slices. then wash with egg, and along the border of each and in the 

centre run a long narrow band of dough ^ in. wide and ^ in. thick. Fix 
these pieces so that they remain upright; then sprinkle some mixed fruit 
— currants, sultanas, and finely chopped orange peel — between the divisions 
thus made. With a forcing-bag fill, till level, with frangipane filling. 
Place a greased piece of wood between the strips of paste to keep them 
straight. Bake at a temperature of about 380° F. When cold, dust over 
with icing sugar, and cut in slices 1 in. wide. ^These cakes are rather nice, 
and sell well. They may be filled with preserved cherries or other kinds 
of mixed fruit. 

POMMES DE TeRRE 

For Pommes de Terre pin out a piece of marzipan or ordinary almond 
paste to \ in. thick, and cover with a thin layer of apricot jam. Divide 
Pommes de i'^to 2-in. squares, and place in the centre of each a small 
Terre. diamond-shaped piece of gateau paste soaked with rum, and 

a little stock syrup. These pieces of almond paste with cake centre are 
to be shaped as potatoes, which is easily done by folding the paste to 
cover up the cake, and rolling between the hands. When all the pieces are 
shaped in this way, brush over with a little stock syrup, and roll in a mix- 
ture consisting half of icing sugar and half of powdered cocoa. With the 
point of a skewer make small holes to represent the eyes. Cake crumbs 
may be used for the centres by making these into a paste with jam, syrup, 
and rum. 



GENOESE PASTRIES 387 



Almond Peaches 



Prepare some small round Princess fancies (see p. 380), baked quite plain, 
and sandwiched together with red currant or apple jelly. Pin out a piece 
of marzipan or ordinary almond paste to ^ in., and divide h p h 

into pieces 2| in. square. Brush some warm apricot jelly 
over the biscuits, and lay one upon each piece of almond paste. Take hold 
of each piece of almond paste and biscuit, and shape between the hands to 
form a peach; make a groove down the centre with a modelling tool or the 
back of a knife. To finish this article, rub the sides with a piece of cotton 
wool dipped in a mixture of corn flour and powdered carmine colouring 
in equal proportions; then place a small stalk and green leaf on Peaches, 
top. This method of making the almond biscuit peach is much better than 
making it wholly from almond paste, as it is not so heavy. Various fruit 
shapes may be made in the same way. 

Chocolate Rognons 

Chocolate Rognons are made with the mixture used for Princess fancies 
(p. 380). With a forcing-bag and a |-in. plain tube lay the batter out on 
papered baking sheets, in kidney shape, as shown on Plate, chocolate 
Dessert Fancies, No. 5, and bake at a steady temperature of Rognons. 
380° F., with the oven door slightly open. Sandwich together with 
whipped cream or jam, according to the selling price, cover the top with 
hot apricot jelly, and mask over with chocolate fondant. Pipe on top 
with royal icing, and fill in with red apricot jelly. 

Genoese Baskets 

Paniers en Genoise or C^oese baskets (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, 
No. 9) are made thus. Cut out some pieces of firm gateau paste with an 
oval cutter, 2^^ in. long and 1^ in. wide; mask the top with a layer Genoese 
of clear red apricot jelly, and spread enough around the sides to Baskets, 
fasten on some fine desiccated cocoanut. Make an incision at each end 
with a small knife previously dipped in hot water, and pipe some whipped 
cream in the slit thus made. Finish by fixing in the centre a small, thin 
handle made with angelica. This basket requires little time to prepare, 
and presents an attractive and clean appearance when carefully made. 

Neapolitans 

For Neapolitans cut a long strip of gateau paste 3 in. wide. Split this, 
and sandwich with raspberry jam; then mask the top with a thin layer of 
apricot jelly, and pipe down the centre some chocolate fondant, 
with pink and pale orange or white fondant on either side. 
When the sugar has set quite firm, take a plain cutter, 2f in. in diameter, 
dip it in hot water, and cut out the cake in half-moon shapes as shown on 
the plate of Dessert Fancies, No. 13. Very little trimmings will be left 
over if the right size of cutter is used. 



388 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

Cream Baskets 

For cream baskets, as in Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 14, line some 
crimp patty pans with a thin layer of short paste; put a little rasp- 
berry jam in the centre, fill with frangipane filling, and 
bake in a moderate oven. Brush some apricot jelly over, 
and cover with granulated chocolate. With a sharp knife make an inci- 
sion on both sides; raise these, and with a bag and pipe fill with whipped 
cream. Bend a thin handle of angelica over the centre. 

AvoNDALE Creams 

Avondale creams are made in boat-shaped moulds. Place the moulds 
side by side on the board, and cover with a thin layer of short paste No. 2. 
Press this into the pans with a small piece of dough, and 
separate the moulds by pressing the paste on to the sharp 
edges by moving the rolling-pin backwards and forwards over them. Place 
on a baking sheet, fill with rich Madeira mixture, and bake in a hot oven 
(420° F.). When cold, spread on each a layer of hot meringue, or whipped 
cream mixed with a little melted gelatine, and decorate as shown on the 
plate of Dessert Fancies, No. 15, with chocolate and yellow fondant and 
royal icing. Finish with a very small silver dragee. 

Tricoloured Genoese Pastries 

For mushed or tricoloured Genoese pastries, take a narrow piece of 
gateau paste No. 3. Split, and sandwich with red currant or apple jelly. 
Tricoloured -^^^^ ^^^ three long pieces of marzipan paste, \ in. wide, 

Genoese Pastries, coloured respectively pale green, pink, and white. Cover 
the top of the cake with apricot jelly, lay the marzipan paste in position 
To cut through ^^ shown on the plate of Dessert Fancies, No. 16, and 
Firm Fondant. cover with chocolate fondant. When the fondant has set 
firm, dip a sharp knife into hot water and cut into small pieces as required. 

Many varieties of masked Genoese are made, iced over with various 

coloured fondants, and decorated with preserved fruits, butter cream, 

crystallized violets, or rose leaves. These must be made 
Masked Genoese. '^ „ i , , -i ^ ^ •£ n • 

small enough to retail at one penny each, it a lair margin 

of profit is to be obtained. The example on the coloured plate was made 

from a narrow strip of gateau paste, split, and sandwiched together with 

raspberry jam. This was then cut into small oblong pieces, which were 

covered with hot jelly and then with raspberry-coloured fondant, decorated 

with pieces of preserved fruits, and piped with a star of royal icing. 

Almond Cream Cakes 

For almond cream cakes (see Plate, Dessert Fancies, No. 17), split 
Almond ^ piece of gateau paste and sandwich with whipped almond- 

Cream Cakes, flavoured cream. With a small oval cutter cut out as many 
pieces of cake as required, avoiding as much as possible the production 



GENOESE PASTRIES 



389 




of trimmings. Brush over the top of each cake with hot apricot jelly, 
and lay on a small piece of almond paste formed in the shape of a pear. 
Cover with yellow fondant; when this has set quite firm, colour the top 
with powdered carmine in the same way as described for pj^^j^j^j^^^ p^^^.^ 
almond peaches. Insert a small piece of clove or a currant 
at the thick end, and at the other a thin piece of angelica to represent 
the stalk. Pipe on a small leaf with either pale green royal icing or 
butter cream. 

Leicester Squares 

Leicester squares, which are easily made and sell well, need no fondant. 
Prepare a piece of pink gateau paste | in. thick, coloured with Leicester 
carmine and flavoured with strawberry essence. Cut two pieces Squares. 
of paper the size of the gateau paste, and spread on these a thin layer of 

Swiss roll batter. Across pj^^j^ 
one piece of this, pipe alter- Gateau 
uately lines of pink and 
white or chocolate royal icing | in. 
apart. With the point of a knife 
drawn backwards and forwards 
across the cake mix- -po Marble 
ture marble the icing, Icing, 
and bake both pieces in a fairly 
hot oven (400° F.). When cold, 
remove from the paper, turn the 
plain piece on the board, spread 
on a layer of hot apricot jelly, and 
upon this lay the piece of gateau paste. Then on the gateau paste spread 
some more jelly, and lay on this the piece of marbled cake. Cut into 
shapes as shown in fig. 59. 



Fig. 59.— Leicester Squares 



Genoese Fancies 

To make up Genoese or gateau paste fancies quickly, to retail at one 
penny each, the following method may be adopted. Take a piece of gateau 
paste 1 in. thick; split, and sandwich together with apricot ouickiy-made 
pulp. Spread some apricot jelly on top with a palette Genoese Fancies, 
knife, and cover with a thin layer of pale green fondant flavoured with 
orange-flower water. When this is set, cut into small shapes, leaving as 
few trimmings as possible. Decorate half with fine scrolls of chocolate 
fondant, and finish the remainder with preserved cherries, cut in rounds, 
and small, thin diamond-shaped pieces of angelica. For the decoration of 
these articles thick angelica should not be used, as this makes jjow to Cut 
them look rather clumsy. Before using, the angelica should Angelica, 
be washed in warm water to soften and remove the crystallized sugar 
with which it is usually covered. 

For another variety, split and sandwich a piece of gateau paste 

VOL. I. 50 



390 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

with a thin layer of chocolate, butter creairi, or custard. Spread some jelly 
-, » over it, and then cover with chocolate fondant; divide into 

1 o cut ' ^ _ ^ ' 

Gateau Paste small squares, and finish by placing half a shelled walnut on 
with Cutter. ^j^^ centre of each, and cover the sides with apricot jelly and 
roasted desiccated cocoanut. Part of the gateau paste, after being covered 
with the chocolate fondant, may be cut out with a small plain round cutter, 
Decorating occasionally dipped in hot water. To decorate these, take one 
Fancies. paper cornet filled with pale green fondant, another filled with 
pink, and pipe on the middle line of the cakes two drops of each colour, 
making four in all. The drops of fondant should touch each other. Place 
a small silver dragee in the centre to finish, and lay in small paper cases. 

Instead of drops of fondant, vanilla butter cream may be used, but 
delicately tinted with the same colours. A star of butter cream is piped 
in the centre, and a small silver dragee placed on top. With various 
coloured fondants and preserved fruits, a large variety of these small 
Thin Almond shapes may be quickly made and decorated. Some confec- 
Paste over tioners cover the gateau paste with a thin layer of almond 
paste before masking with fondant. This improves the 
flavour, and makes a smooth surface for icing over. The fancies made in 
this way must be very small, owing to the cost of the almond icing. 

Before fondant was introduced, small fancies were generally piped 
with royal icing, with divisions in the design usually filled with bright- 
coloured jam. The gateau paste was made from a rich pound cake 
Old-fashioned mixing, was cut up into the usual shapes, and on these a 
Method of Pre- border of royal icing was piped with a small star tube, 
paring ancies. They were divided into sections with piped lines of sugar, 
and each division was filled with jam. Where the piping is done with a 
very small tube, and clear jam is used, these Genoese fancies may still be 
quite suitable for any high-class trade. 

Another simple style is to cut the cakes out with a small plain round 
cutter, and pipe on a border of royal icing; then fill in the centre with 
Lines and Jelly apple or red currant jelly. The sides are covered with 
Decoration. apricot jam and rolled on fine desiccated cocoanut or sugar 

nibs, and green cocoanut is placed in the centre. 

Mocha Fancies 

A butter cream flavoured with coffee and vanilla, as given in No. 2 
recipe (p. 385), will be useful for flavouring and decorating the popular 

cakes known as Mocha fancies. Prepare a long piece 
Mocha Fancies. . o i. 

of gateau paste 3 in. wide and 1 in. thick, cut and sand- 
wich with coffee butter cream, spread some apricot jelly over, and mask 
with rich-flavoured coffee fondant. Pipe two narrow lines of royal icing 
along each border, and fill in with red apricot jelly. With a sharp knife, 
dipped occasionally in hot water, cut the cake into pieces about 1 in. wide. 
Pipe a scroll on the top of the cakes, as shown on the plate of Dessert 
Fancies, No. 1, and place a small silver dragee in the centre of each cake. 



pp:tits fours glaces 391 

Another small Mocha cake is made by splitting and sandwiching a 
piece of gateau paste with coflee cream. The top of the cake is covered 
with a layer of butter cream, then cut into small 2-in. Coffee Cream 
squares. In the centre and at each corner a star of cream FiUmg- 
is piped on, and the fancies are finished by covering the sides with a thin 
layer of butter cream, or apricot jelly, and very fine sugar nibs or desiccated 
cocoanut. 

Vanilla Cream Fingers 

To make vanilla cream fingers, cut a strip of No. 2 gateau paste 1 in. 
thick and 3 in. wide. Split, and sandwich together with No. 1 vanilia 
butter cream flavoured with vanilla sugar. Spread with hot Cream 
apricot jelly, and mask over with white fondant flavoured with '"S^rs. 
rose water. With a paper cornet and a fine-cut small star tube pipe a 
line of vanilla-flavoured butter cream along each border, and vanilla- 
two lines running down the centre h in. apart. Fill the centre flavoured 
lines in with chocolate fondant, and sprinkle over this some ream. 
finely chopped pistachio nuts. When the fondant has set quite firm, cut 
the paste into fingers f to 1 in. wide. 

Maraschino Creams 

Another very nice-eating and attractive-looking cake is made from a 
long strip of Genoese paste of the same width and thickness as the above. 
This is cut in halves, and sandwiched together with apple or red currant 
jelly. The pieces are covered with pulp and white fondant, flavoured with 
maraschino. Pipe two lines of cream along each side on top about ^ in. 
apart, and two down the centre ^ in. apart. Fill the three spaces between 
the piped lines with red apricot jelly, sprinkle some pistachio nuts over 
the whole, and cut into narrow strips. 

Chocolate Cream Fingers 

Another attractive small fancy cake is made by placing between two 
thin pieces of gateau paste a layer of chocolate butter cream. Mask with 
pulp and cover with white fondant, pipe on three pairs of chocolate 
lines with butter cream, and fill the spaces between with Butter Cream, 
pink, pale-green, and coffee fondant. When quite firm, cut into small 
finsfers. 



CHAPTER LXXII 

PETITS FOUKS GLACfiS 



The very small fondant-covered articles known as petits fours glacis are 
generally made with a base consisting either of small pieces of Petits Fours 
gateau paste, or of short paste baked in very small moulds, Glac6s. 
or of small pieces of dry sponge biscuits. For covering these, or for 



392 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

sandwiching them together, richly flavoured almond paste, butter cream, 
or chopped preserved fruits are mostly used. Various liqueurs are used for 
flavouring. They are masked entirely with fondant, and when finished 
are placed into small fancy crimped paper cases. They should be decorated 
General Methods with a light scroll piped on with fondant, or by placing 
of Finishing. j^ ^j^g centre some chopped or split pistachio nut, crystal- 

lized flowers, or chopped preserved fruits. These goods are made only on 
Use of rare occasions, except in liotels, restaurants, or large catering 

Petits Fours, houses, where they are often prepared for the dinner, supper, 
or luncheon table. For dipping the petits fours into the fondant, a small 




Fig. 60.— Dipping Fork 



fork with two wide-set prongs (fig. 60) will be found useful for certain 
varieties. 

Take a thin sheet of firm gateau paste about 1 in. thick; split it in two 
and sandwich together with apricot jam or butter cream. Splash over with 
Foundation of maraschino or some other liqueur. Spread on a layer of hot 
Petits Fours, apricot jelly, and with a sharp knife, occasionally wetted with 
a cloth, cut the cakes into small pieces of various shapes, making as few 
trimmings as possible. Prepare the covering fondant suitably flavoured, 
and warmed to about 85° F., and with a dipping fork separately dip in 
each piece of cake and place at once upon the draining wire. Those 
intended to be decorated with pistachio or other nuts and crystallized 
flowers should have these placed on before the fondant sets firm. Stand 
the wire in the drying cupboard for a few moments to set the fondant; 
then finish the decoration. Remove the fours with a knife dipped fre- 
quently in hot water, and place into the small paper cases. 

Biscuit petits four's are made from the following mixture. Weigh into 

a mixing-bowl 10 oz. of castor sugar. Add twenty yolks, and cream both 

Biscuit together with a spatula or wooden spoon. Beat ten large 

Petits Fours, whites quite firm, and while an assistant is lightly mixing in 

10 oz. of sifted Hungarian flour with the yolk batter, gradually mix in 

pieces of whipped whites until all is mixed to a light firm batter. With 

bag and ^-in. plain tube lay out the mixture on papered baking sheets 

in very small fancy shapes. Bake in a steady oven about 360° F.; 

Fillings for Bis- then transfer from the papered tray and sandwich to- 

cuit Petits Fours, gether with various fillings, such as chopped preserved 

pineapple or other fruits, butter cream, marzipan paste flavoured with 

liqueurs, or a cream made with crushed preserved chestnuts {marron glacd) 

flavoured with kirsch and vanilla sugar. Mask each with hot apricot jelly; 

i, _, , then cover with fondant and decorate as required. When 

Marron Glac6. . n i . • • c 

dry, place m paper cases. These small biscuit petit fours are 

easily prepared, and make a good saleable assortment. 




-♦s 



I 




f^^ 



L 



^B 



o 



iii iMi t^ 






ii# iii iii 



■Ih wBtt 




PETITS FOURS GLACES 



PETITS FOUES GLAC£S 393 

From the same batter other goods to be retailed at Id. each may be 
prepared, piped in various shapes, sandwiched together with jam or butter 
cream, and covered with fondant. The biscuits for either Penny Biscuit 
purpose must be baked fairly dry, and may be prepared in Petits Fours, 
batches and used as required. It is necessary to scoop out the centres 
partly when adding the mixture for sandwiching. 

Another variety of petits fours glaces is made with small pieces of gateau 
paste cut out with cutters of various shapes, flavoured with butter cream, 
and masked with fondant. The cream used may be made Butter Cream 
■ith. butter and custard mixed, or that prepared with butter, Petits Fours, 
sugar, and yolks as directed in Chapter LXX. In the preparation of 
these petits foui-s there are two essentials to be noted. The butter cream 
must be quite firm and lightly dusted with icing sugar before covering 
with fondant, and the fondant covering must be made barely warm, so 
as not to cause the butter to melt. Petits fours glaces made with butter 
cream flavoured with liqueurs eat nice, especially in cold weather. These 
creams are preferable to many of the sticky fillings sometimes used. 

As a guide to those who may not have used butter cream for this 
purpose a few directions are given, which, if carefully followed out, will 
give satisfactory results. Prepare a thin piece of firm gateau ^g^ ^^ Butter 
paste about \ in. thick. Cut out the number of pieces Cream in 
required with a small oval cutter 1 in. long, and divide them ^ ' ^ °^"' 
into three separate lots. Prepare some pink butter cream flavoured with 
maraschino, and spread a thick layer ^ in. high on one-third of the pieces 
of cake. Shape the cream with a palette knife to make a rounded surface, 
and keep in a cold place for one hour. Dust lightly with icing sugar and 
mask with pale-green fondant, flavoured with rose water. Allow these to 
lie for one hour until the fondant is quite dry. Dip the end of a thin 
knife into some warm water, cut each petit four down the centre, and lay 
them in shallow paper cases. These small articles are very choice, with the 
pink and pale-green colours blending properly. Cover the second portion 
of the oval pieces with pineapple-flavoured butter cream raised to f in. 
high. Mask with fondant by dipping these with the fingers; then place 
some chopped pistachio on the centre. Finish the remainder with butter 
cream, mixed with finely chopped preserved pineapple flavoured with 
maraschino. Pipe this mixture on in small raised bulbs. When the cream 
is firm dip each small cake into yellow fondant, slightly tinted with carmine 
and flavoured with maraschino. Place in paper cases. Make a few small 
coloured spots on each cake, to represent the eyes of a pineapple, with the 
point of a wooden skewer dipped into a mixture of gum arable coloured 
with a little carmine and caramel colouring. 

Take a piece of gateau paste the same thickness as for the above fours, 
and cut out a number of small round pieces with a plain cutter 1 in. in 
diameter. Pipe on one-third of these a small bulb of vanilla butter cream; 
press a small preserved cherry on top, and when the cream is firm cover 
with white fondant flavoured with liqueur. Fill a paper cornetwith part 



394 



PASTES AND PASTEIES 



of the same fondant, and pipe a small scroll on the top of each. Place a 
silver dragee in the centre, and lay in small paper cases. Finish the second 
portion with pink butter cream fondant of the same colour flavoured with 
rose water, and small preserved cherries. The cherries should be very- 
small for these petits fours and half-forced into the cream, causing this 
to assume a dome-like shape. 

For the remaining small pieces of cake prepare some chocolate butter 
cream, flavoured with melted, unsweetened cocoa and vanilla. Pipe a 
pyramid of cream upon each, then cover with chocolate fondant. Pipe 
a scroll of fondant on top, and place a small silver dragee on the centre. 




Fig. 61.— Petits Fours Cutters 



Sets of small fancy-shaped cutters (fig. 61) are very useful to the 
ornamental confectioner for many purposes. These may be used in the 
Use of Fancy- preparation of petits fours glaces as follows. Prepare a 
shaped Gutters, piece of gateau paste f in. thick, flavoured with liqueur 
and sandwiched with jam. Spread on a layer of hot apricot jelly, and 
cover with a thin sheet of marzipan paste. With the small fancy-shaped 
cutters cut this into small pieces. On the centre of each lay a piece 
of marzipan paste cut out with a cutter of the same shape as the cake, 
but one-third the size. Have this about ^ in. thick. Cover the cakes 
with fondant in the usual way. No extra decoration will be necessary for 
these petits fours. The small shapes of marzipan paste will show clearly 
through the fondant and will give them a neat attractive appearance. 

Rich almond paste petits fours may be made by placing a thick layer 
of almond paste, shaped with the fingers or piped with bag and tube 
Rich Almond Paste upon thin pieces of gateau paste. Various flavourings 
Petits Fours. already mentioned may be used for these. They are 

then covered with a thin coating of hot apricot jelly and masked with 
fondant. 



CHOU PASTRIES 395 

Another variety of petit four glace is made with very small boat-shaped 
short -paste cases, tilled with chopped preserved fruits, almond paste, or 
butter cream, flavoured with liqueurs, and the whole Boat-shaped Petits 
masked with fondant. The paste cases are prepared Fours Glaces. 
by laying a thin sheet of short paste No, 2 on the small moulds placed 
together on the board, pressing this into each with a firm piece of dough, 
and separating them by running the rolling pin backwards and forwards 
on top. Place the moulds on a baking sheet, prick the paste in each 
with the point of a knife, and bake in a hot oven (390° F.). When the cases 
are tilled with almond or other cream tilling, a thin coating of fondant is 
required to cover this only, but the short paste is not covered. 



CHAPTER LXXIII 

CHOU PASTEIES 
Choux a la CrSme 



Many favourite pastries are made with what is known as chou paste. 
For this weigh into a saucepan or mixing-bowl ^ lb. of butter and 1 oz. 
of sugar. Add | pt. of water, and bring all to the boil. Making 
While this is boiling, stir in quickly \ lb. of Hungarian Chou Paste, 
flour (this will make a fairly stiff paste); continue to stir this over the 
fire for two minutes; then remove and transfer to a cool pan. Break 
seven fair-sized eggs, and beat these into the paste, two at a time, until 
all are mixed and a rich smooth elastic paste is produced. As this mix- 
ture is rich, keep all the ingredients well together in the body of the 
pan, and beat together quickly. The transference to a cold vessel, and the 
few seconds occupied in breaking the eggs, will allow the stirring the 
paste to cool sufficiently to remove any danger of its being too ^S^^ ^"• 
hot for the eggs. To make choux a la crime (see Plate, Choux Pastries, 
Nos. 16, 17) proceed as follows. Prepare a slightly greased baking sheet, 
and with a forcing-bag and tube drop the paste in round bulbs about 1| in. 
diameter and f in. thick. Wash with egg, and bake in a solid oven at 
380° F. ^These will puff up light and hollow in the Filling for Choux 
middle. When cold, make an incision on one side, and ^ ^^ Crdme. 
partly fill the hollow centre -with whipped cream, or cream substitute made 
as already described, or with custard only, or meringue only. Dust with 
icing sugar, and pipe a spot of red jelly on the top of each cake. 

Cream Buns 

The name cream hun (see Plate, Chou Pastries, Nos. 2, 3, 15) has 
been given to articles made from the same paste as the above, 
or a mixture very similar, and baked in their own steam in ^^^"^ ""^' 
specially prepared covered pans (fig. 62). Baked under these conditions. 



396 



PASTES AND PASTRIES 




Fig. 62. — Cream Bun Pans 



the pieces swell out much larger than when baked on open trays. 
They dry much quicker in consequence, and should be made from a rich 
butter mixture. Use the same recipe as given above for chou a la creme. 
When the paste is ready, drop it on the special pan, slightly greased, with 

a bag and |-in. plain tube in 
bulbs about 1| in. diameter. 
Then place the cover on the pan, 
and bake in a hot oven (460° F.) 
for about fifteen minutes. Care 
must be taken while baking not 
to remove the cover until the. 
buns are baked, otherwise these 
will collapse and be unsaleable. 
Make an opening at the side,, 
and, when cold, partly fill with 
whipped cream. Dust with icing 
sugar. If these are made very 
small, and if cream caii be ob- 
tained at a moderate price, they may be sold at Id. each and show a 
fair profit; but 2d. is the usual price if real cream is used. 

Many fancy cream buns are made for serving at buffet and luncheon 
tables. These look attractive when made small, filled with richly flavoured 
Colours for cream, and iced over with either white, pink, coffee, or choco- 
Small Cream late fondant, and served in small paper cases. Decorate the 
""^' tops with granulated chocolate, chopped pistachio nuts, pre- 

served cherries, or crushed crystallized violets. 

Pralinee Cream Buns 

For pralinee cream buns, prepare the small buns as for chou a la 
creme, and bake on an ordinary baking sheet. Fill these with whipped 
Pralinee Cream, flavoured with crushed pralinee, ice the tops with 

Cream Buns, coffee fondant, and sprinkle over some crushed pralinee or 
roasted chopped almonds mixed with a little pistachio nuts. 

A pralinee with rich flavour is prepared with roasted whole almonds, 
vanilla beans, and caramel sugar. Roast in the oven on a baking sheet 
To prepare 1 lb. of whole almonds until they are coloured through. 
Pralinee. Weigh into a small copper sugar-boiler 1^ lb. of castor sugar;, 
add one vanilla bean cut into small pieces; stand the pan over a slow 
fire, and stir with a spoon until the sugar boils to caramel. Mix in the 
almonds, stir all together for a few minutes over the fire, and transfer ta 
a greased marble slab. Allow this to become quite cold, then crush under 
yj r the rolling-pin, or pass through the almond paste machine. While 
Pralinee crushing between the granite rollers or otherwise, constantly sift 
Powder, ^j^^ pralinee, and use the fine powder for flavouring purposes. 
This flavouring imparts a very rich aroma to the articles. It can be 
effectively used in ices. 



CHOU PASTRIES 




I, 9, lo, II, 14, Chocolate Rognons. 2, 3, Cream Buns. 4, 6, 7, 12, 13, Eclairs. 5, 8, 18, 19, Bordeaux 

Creams. 15, Croquenbouche of Cream Buns with Spun Sugar Top. i6, 17, Chou a la Crenie. 

20, 22, Gateaux St. Honors. 21, Fedora Cake. 




CHOU PASTRIES 



CHOU PASTKIES 397 

Cream buns may be made from a slightly cheaper mixture consisting of 
1 qt. of water, 1 lb. of butter, 1| lb. Hungarian flour, 2 oz. cheaper Cream 
castor sugar, and 26 to 30 eggs. Bun Mixture. 

Eclairs 

A mixture made from the following quantities will also give good 
results, but is more suitable for Eclairs, &c.: h lb. butter, | pt. milk, | pt. 
water, 1 lb. of Hungarian flour, 1^ oz. of sugar, and about 14 eggs. ^ 
ficlairs are not required so light as Cream buns, and the surface 
must be smooth for covering with fondant (see Plate, Chou Pastries, 
Nos. 4, 6, 7, 12, 13). Prepare the mixture as directed for cream buns, 
and, when ready, lay out on a slightly greased baking sheet in fingers 
about 3 to 3^ in. long and about | in. thick. Wash with egg, and bake 
in a steady oven at 380° F. until they are rather dry and of a light- 
brown colour. Articles made with the cream bun or eclair paste must be 
baked fairly dry, as they quickly soften on being exposed to the moist air. 
About ^ inch from the top of each eclair cut an opening ^ 

along one side, and fill the hollow centre with whipped 
cream flavoured as required. Mask over the top with hot jelly, and cover 
with fondant. Care is necessary not to allow the sugar to run down 
the sides. Place these in a warm cupboard for a few seconds, to dry the 
fondant before sending to the shop. When covering with Colour of 
chocolate fondant, this should be of a dark reddish-brown, not Chocolate 
black. When preparing eclairs for special functions, make °^ ^ ^^^^' 
them about 3 in. in length, laid out with |-in. plain tube. Fill with 
richly flavoured real cream. Divide the quantity into four lots; variety 
ice one lot pink, one white, another with coflee fondant, and the °^ ficlairs. 
remainder with chocolate. If carefully iced, these make an attractive 
assortment. 

Pralinee Fingers 

With a forcing-bag and |-in. star tube pipe on slightly greased baking 
sheets finger-shaped pieces of cream bun paste. Wash over with egg; 
sprinkle on some finely chopped almonds, and bake in a solid Pralinee 
oven about 380" F. Bake fairly dry. When cold, split and fill Fingers, 
with cream flavoured with pralinee, and dust with mixed icing and vanilla 
sugar. 

Vanilla Rings 

For vanilla rings, pin out to ^ in. thick some stale puff'-paste trim- 
mings; cut out with 2^-in. plain round cutter; allow these pieces to lie for 
twenty minutes on a splashed baking sheet. Then with a 
forcing-bag and a \-m.. star tube pipe a ring of cream bun 
paste around the border of each piece of paste. Bake in a solid oven. 
When cold, dust with icing sugar, and fill in the centre with Italian 
meringue or boiled vanilla custard. 

Vol. I 61 



398 PASTES AND PASTRIES 



Bordeaux Fancies 



Another variety very similar to the above is made by piping the cream 
bun paste with a ^-in. plain tube upon pufF-paste bottoms previously 
Bordeaux washed with water. When baked, cover the border of the bun 
Fancies, mixture with hot jelly and chocolate fondant. Fill in the 
centres with Italian meringue or whipped cream, and place a small piece 
of preserved cherry on top. These are known as Bordeaux fancies (see 
Plate, Chou Pastries, Nos. 5, 8, 18, 19). 

Chocolate Rognons 

The chocolate rognon shown on the plate of Dessert Fancies was made, 
as previously stated, from a very light biscuit mixture. Another kind (see 
Chocolate Plate, Chou Pastries, Nos. 1, 9, 10, 11, 14) is made with cream 
Rognons, bun paste, filled with vanilla cream, and covered with chocolate 
fondant. In this case the pieces of cream bun paste are made 
kidney-shaped. Wash with egg, and bake in a solid oven aboiit 380° F. 
When cold, partly split; fill with vanilla cream, brush hot jelly on top, 
and mask with chocolate fondant. Pipe a star of vanilla cream on top. 

Fedora Cakes 

For FMora cakes, as shown on Plate, Chou Pastries, No. 21, pipe pieces 

of cream bun paste, about 3J in. long and 1| in. wide, on a greased baking 

sheet in a curly or zigzag form. Bake in a solid oven about 
Fddora Cakes. » o 

380° F., and when cold partly fill with whipped cream. Dust 

with icing sugar, and pipe a zigzag line of red jelly on top. 



CHAPTER LXXIV 

MERINGUE GOODS 



To the confectioner who has a large assortment of confectionery to 
prepare, meringue pastes, either cold or hot, are very useful. With hot 
Meringue Baskets, 01' Italian meringue (see p. 373) he is able to prepare a 
Vases, Boxes, &c. choice variety of small and large pieces of confectionery, 
either for shop trade or for luncheon and supper tables. They may, with 
little practice, be made into baskets, vases, boxes, bee-hives, and other 
shapes, to be served with cream or mixed fruits. Articles made with hot 
meringue, and dried before exposure to the air, remain dry when kept 
under proper conditions, and do not soften in damp air, as do those made 
Cold Meringue with cold meringue (see p. 873). Shells made with the 
becomes soft. latter are very light and fragile, but quickly absorb the 
damp and become unsaleable. The heating of the former meringue, by 
tlie addition of boiling sugar, tends to partly set the mixture, and forms 



MERINGUE GOODS 399 

a smooth coating on the goods, which are then not so quickly affected 
by the atmosphere as others of a more porous nature made Hot Meringue 

with a cold paste. remains dry. 

To be successful with the preparation of either kind of meringue 
mixtures it is necessary to use good materials, such as fine hard-grained 
castor sugar and fresh egg whites, and the work must be done Grease must 
with utensils which are perfectly free from grease of any ^^ avoided, 
description. Some confectioners recommend the use of stale whites. Thi& 
is good advice when properly understood; but some have whites of Stale 
thought that the whites of stale eggs were referred to, ^&&s not Suitable. 
and they have consequently failed to make good meringues. In composi- 
tion the white is a mixture principally of albumen and water, and the first 
change that age produces in the egg is partly physical. Changes in Egg 
The white becomes very watery and loses part of its Albumen with Age. 
viscosity. Stale whites of this description are of little use for whisking 
purposes, and should be avoided. The best results are obtained with whites- 
separated from fresh eggs, and exposed to the air for at least twenty-four 
to thirty hours before being used. In this time part of y^j^ whites 
the moisture evaporates, with a consequent increase in the should be ex- 
proportion of albumen. Compared with whites freshly ^°^^ some time, 
separated the diflference is readily detected. Those prepared some hours 
previously beat up quicker and firmer, and without the aid of any chemical, 
such as cream of tartar, which has at times to be used with weak whites to 
toughen them. 

Small mixtures of cold meringue, from 1 qt. of whites downwards, are 
best made in a copper bowl and beaten light with a soft whisk. The 
sponge machine may be used, but is no improvement, copper Bowl for 
The machine is best for hot meringue, as with it there is Small Quantities, 
less danger of the whites curdling when the boiled sugar is poured in. 
With a good whisk the whites for the cold mixture Sponge Machine 
may be whipped up in a short time without curdling ^°^ ^°* Meringue. 
or causing any waste of material, as is often the case when prepared in 
an ordinary sponge machine. 

There are several causes to account for whites curdling while being 
whipped. This generally happens if weak stale eggs are used, the whites 
of which are very watery. Curdling is often the result of beat- causes of 
ipg the mixture all over the bowl instead of keeping it well in Curdling, 
the centre. Particles of the meringue remain untouched by the whisk; 
these quickly separate, the small cells burst, and when mixed in with the 
remainder of the mixture, cause the whole to become soft. The whites 
should be slowly whisked at first, and the speed increased as Method of 
they become firm. If they are made under proper conditions, Whisking. 
no sugar need be added until the whites are almost ready for use. 



400 PASTES AND PASTlilES 



Meringue Shells 



To make meringue shells (see Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 7) proceed 
as follows. Break | pt. of egg whites into a clean copper bowl, and weio-h 
Meringue down 1^ lb. of clean, fine-grained castor sugar. Beat the whites 
Shells. until they become quite firm; then whisk in about one-third of the 
sugar. Remove the whisk and mix in the remainder of the sugar with a 
wooden spoon or spatula. Cover some clean baking sheets with thin kitchen 
paper, and with a bag and ^-in. plain tube pipe the meringues in small oval 
pieces (egg shape), about 2^ in. in length and 1;^ in. wide. This size would 
Small Sizes be suitable for those meringue shells prepared for catering pur- 
for Catering, pyges; those retailed in the shop are made slightly larger. They 
should be nicely rounded and plump like half of an egg, and about 1 in. in 
height, and quite smooth on the surface and at each end. To get these 
results the pipe must be kept a little away from the paper while laying out. 
When Meringues Dust lightly witli sugar, and bake in a cold oven (about 
can be baked. 31 qo p -^ Using an Ordinary furnace oven, the baking may 
take place at the close of the regular day's work. On no account must the 
Why Shells oven be hot; otherwise the meringues will quickly take colour, 
crack. g^^^ ^jQ blow during the baking more than is necessary. Little 

sugar is required for covering purposes; too much will cause the meringue 
to crack badly on the surface. Coarse sugar has the same effect. 

As soon as the meringues may be handled, raise them off the paper, turn 
over in the hand, and press in the centre with a small egg. Pack them 
Indenting or away in a box, and store in a warm cupboard, which 

Hollowing Centres, ghould be quite dry, until required for use. Some con- 
fectioners pack the meringues away without pressing in the centres, leaving 
this until they become perfectly dry and are required for filling, then they 
scoop out the centres wnth a small knife. This is not a good method, for 
the meringues, being so brittle, are easily broken, especially when the 
confectioner is busy with other work. 

At one time meringue-making was one of the jobs shunned by working 
confectioners. It was tedious work. The meringues were laid out with 
Using Wet an iron spoon, and this operation required some practice before 
Boards. j^ could be perforn)ed successfully. They were baked on wet 

boards, a plan that is still adopted in some bakeries. This plan is, however, 
not so efficient as that described above. When baking the meringues on 
the wet boards, they are removed when the outer crust has formed; the 
Scooping Centres centre is scooped out, and they are then dried and packed 
not Satisfactory, away. This method does not improve the appearance of 
the meringues, especially when the work has to be done quickly. The 
ragged edges of the scooped part look coarse and unfinished. 

Princess Meringues 

There is one kind of meringue which can be baked satisfactorily on a 
wet board. It is known as a Princess meringue (see Plate, Fancy 



MERINGUE GOODS 401 

Meringues, No. 11), and is made thus. Make into a stiff meringue five large 
whites and 1 lb. of castor sugar. Lay out on paper with bag Princess 
and small plain tube, dust with sugar, and bake on a board Meringues, 
previously soaked in water. When ready, remove from the board, and 
sandwich the meringues in pairs by placing between them three preserved 
cherries previously mixed with a little red-currant jelly and noyau. Where 
these small meringues have been previously well covered with sugar, small 
pearls will form on top, caused by the steam acting on the sugar. 

Pink Meringues 

Sometimes pw/f meringues are required for mixing with the white to 

give variety of colour. These may be made with cold meringue, but are 

liable to become too much coloured during baking. ' The ^. , ,, . 

- , 1 . 1 11-1 p 1 i • Pink Meringues. 

better method is to take a small mixture or hot meringue 

as prepared for meringue fancies (see Chapter LXVII), and colour with 
carmine. With bag and plain tube lay the meringues on papered or 
buttered-and-floured baking sheets, and partly dry in a hot use of Dry- 
cupboard. After a few hours these may be raised and turned ^"S Cupboard, 
over. The centres can then be pressed in, and the goods returned again 
to tlie cupboard to finish drying. 

Coffee Meringues 

Small coffee meringues (see Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 6) are made 
by boiling a strong infusion of coffee with the sugar and water as follows. 
Boil 1 lb. of lump sugar and 1 gill of water to a temperature coffee 
of 245° F. Add ^ gill of coffee essence and a few drops of Meringues, 
caramel colouring. Boil again to 245° F. Remove this from the stove, and 
whisk eight whites to a stiff* froth; then add 1| oz. castor sugar, and, while 
whisking, have the boiled sugar gently poured in. These small meringues 
may be baked upon w^et boards and sandwiched together with their own 
moisture, or baked on greased and flou'-ed baking sheets, and put together 
wutli whipped cream flavoured with vanx.... an'^ coffee essence. 

ROCHERS 

Rochers a Vltalienne are small rock meringues (see the plate. No. 2), 
made with hot meringue and filleted almonds. Break into a copper bowl 
eight large whites and 1 lb. of castor sugar, stand this over a Rochers k 
pan of hot water, and whisk the mixture until it becomes quite I'ltalienne. 
light, firm, a.nd slightly warm. Mix in carefully 12 oz. of very thin filleted 
almonds; lay out upon greased and floured baking sheets in small heaps, 
shape each with a fork, and bake in a cool oven (about 310° F.). 

Chocolate rochers may be made by mixing in 3 oz. of melted unsweetened 
cocoa and 2 oz. of vanilla sugar before adding the almonds. Careful 
mixing is necessary to ensure success, owing to the oily nature chocolate 
of the cocoa. Rochers. 

For orange and lemon rochers, flavour the mixture with either orange 



402 PASTES AND PASTRIES 

or lemon zest, and colour with a yellow vegetable colour, or yellow and 
Orange and Carmine mixed. Mixed together, these goods make a nice 

Lemon Rochers. assortment, and if made with fresh almonds they are suit- 
able for a first-class trade. 

COCOATINES 

Cocoatines (see Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 16) are small light biscuits 
made with hot meringue and desiccated cocoanut. Over a pan of hot water, 
^ . or in the sponge machine, beat up ten larg-e whites and 1 lb. of 

castor sugar. When ready remove from the water, and mix in 
1 lb. of medium coarse cocoanut. Cover some baking sheets with wafer 
paper, and Math bag and ^-in. plain tube drop the small cocoatines in 
pyramid shape about 1^ in. high. Cover one-third with green cocoanut, 
another with pink, and the rest with roasted cocoanut. Place in the 
drying oven for twelve hours, and when quite dry mix all together. 

Another method is to leave the meringue quite plain on a buttered and 
floured baking sheet exposed to the air for twelve hours; then to bake it 
for a few moments in a solid oven about 400" F. to colour the point of the 
biscuits slightly. Here, again, careful handling of the mixture is required if 
success is to be obtained, as it will be impossible to force the mixture through 
the bag and tube if it is in any way heavy. The soft meringue will work 
through the bag, and leave the cocoanut almost dry inside. 

Mushroom Meringues 

Small 7)iushrooin Tneringues (see Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 10) are 
prepared from hot meringue made by adding 1^ lb. of castor sugar to eight 
Mushroom whites. Dress a baking sheet with clarified butter, dust over 
Meringues, with flour, and with a bag and |-in. plain tube lay out small 
drops of meringue about 1 to 1^ in. in diameter. Have the surface of each 
quite smooth, and with the remainder of the mixture lay out a number of 
small pyramids about 1 in. high, to be used as stalks for the mushrooms. 
Place the trays away in the drying oven until the meringue sets quite firm. 
Then scoop out the centres of the pieces intended as tops, fill these with 
whipped cream flavoured wnth kirsch, press in the stalk, and dust lightly 

with powdered cocoa. 

Meringue Fingers 

Meringues are frequently made in small finger shapes, and coloured 
Meringue either throughout the mixture or by using strongly coloured and 
Fingers, flavoured sugars for dusting on them before they are dried or 
baked. (See Plate, Fancy Meringues, No. 8.) 

Surprises 

A very neat meringue fancy is known as a surprise (fig. 63). This 

has the appearance of being built up of round layers or meringue of 

gradually decreasing diameter, the top one finishing in a point. 

For a base a short paste or German paste biscuit or case may 

be used. This has a little flavoured jam placed on the centre, then with 



TYPES OF FANCY MERINGUES 

1. Pyramids. 

2. Rocks. 

3. Boats. 

4. Grecian. 

5. Palermo. 

6. Coffee. 

7. Shells. 

8. Fingers. 

9. Swallows. 

10. Mushrooms. 

11. Princess. 

12. Rose. 

13. Strawberry Mascot. 

14. Chocolate Mascot. 

15. Spoon. 

16. Cocoatines. 

17. Cherry. 




TYPES OF FANCY MERINGUES 



WINE BISCUITS 



403 



a bag and a plain tube the hot meringue is piped on in the form described. 
Some skill is needed to ensure that each 
layer has a nice rounded appearance, and 
that the whole stands quite straight when 
finished. These effects are obtained by hold- 
ing the bag quite perpendicular, and a little 
distance up from the biscuit, and from each 
layer as it is finished, and using a gradually 
reducing pressure as the layers become nar- 
rower. There are four or five ridges usually 
in each surprise. These may be finished by 
simply dusting over with fine castor, then 
with dry pink sugar, and dried for a few 
minutes to form a crust. Or they may be 
covered with strong clear apricot jelly, which 
will set quite firm and not sticky, or they 
may be covered with fondant coloured in any 
way desired. 




Fig. 63.— Surprise 



CHAPTER LXXV 

WINE BISCUITS 



Queen's Drops 

Queen's drops are among those classed as Wine Biscuits, and may be 
made from the following recipe. Weigh into a mixing- bowl 1 lb. butter 
and 1 lb. castor sugar; cream together, beat in ten eggs, two at Queen's 
a time, and stir in 1^ lb. Hungarian flour and 4 oz. currants. Drops. 
Very careful baking is required, so that these drops may remain moist on 
keeping. With bag and ^-in. plain tube lay the batter out in small bulbs 
on papered baking sheets. Bake in a hot oven (about 460° F.). As soon 
as the biscuits show signs of taking colour, remove the bottom sheet and 
finish baking. This method will ensure that the bottoms of the drops are 
soft. Pair them together by careful pressing without using any preserve. 

Cherry Biscuits 

Baking in a colder oven will cause the drops to run out flat similar to 
cherry biscuits, which are made up with 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. 
flour, and eight eggs. Prepare as for Queen's drops, and lay a Cherry 
small piece of preserved cherry upon each. In some districts a Biscuits, 
much cheaper article may be required, for which weigh down: | lb. butter 
substitute, 1 lb. 2 oz. castor sugar, 2^ lb. strong flour, seven eggs, 6 oz. 
currants, f pt. milk, 2^ oz. No. 2 powder, egg colour, and essence. 



404 



BISCUITS 




Fig. 64. — Biscuit-forcer 



Apricot Drops 

Apricot drops are made from either of the above mixtures, without 

. . .^ currants, and when baked are Sandwiched together with 

Apricot Drops. . . „ . ^ 

apricot jelly or jam. 

African Biscuits 

A different class of article is the African biscuit. These require baking 
in a hot oven (420° F.), and are prepared as follows. Weigh on the board 
African It lb. soft biscuit flour and 12 oz. butter from which the salt 
Biscuits. au(j M^ater have been removed. Rub the butter and flour together 
until the butter is thoroughh^ mixed. Make the bay; weigh in 10 oz. 

castor sugar, three small eggs, 
and the zest of two lemons, and 
mix all into a dough, without 
overworking. To make the 
various shapes pass the paste 
through the biscuit-forcer (fig. 
64) upon greased baking sheets. 
When baked and while hot, cut 
into lengths as required with a 
sharp knife. 
Another recipe for these biscuits is as follows. Make into a dough 
2|- lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, six small eggs, and a few drops 
African essence of lemon. Force out the paste through a star disc on 

Biscuits, No. 2. the board, and cut into small lengths of 2| to 3 in. Fold 
into various shapes, such as rings, S-shaped twists, &c. Lay on baking 
sheets, and bake quickly. 

Orange African biscuits may be made from either of the above mix- 

Oranee tures. Force out the paste through a wide disc (1|- in.) upon the 

African bakino; sheet, and bake in a hot oven. Wash over with orange 

iscui s. .^^.g^^gj. icing, sprinkle on some green cocoanut, and while warm cut 

in fingers 3 in. long. 

Shrp^wsbury Biscuits 

Weigh down 1|- lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, and 10 oz. castor sugar, and 
mix into a dough with two large eggs and the zest of two lemons. The 
Shrewsbury paste for these and other biscuits will be easier to pin out 
Biscuits. if prepared several hours before it is needed. Especially is 
this necessary in hot weather, when the butter is liable to be very soft. 
When the butter is oily on account of the heat, change the method of mix- 
ing, and instead of proceeding as described above, press the butter and 
sugar together, add the eggs, and lightly work all in with the flour. Pin 
out the paste to ^ in. thick, using during the operation no more dust than 
is really necessary. With a crimp cutter 2|- in. in diameter, cut out the 
paste and bake in a hot oven (about 400° F.). To keep the biscuits of a 
uniform colour, draw the baking sheets occasionally to the mouth of the- 



WINE BISCUITS 



405 



oven and remove the biscuits as they bake. The centres should be almost 
white and the borders tinged a light brown. 

Derby Biscuits 

For small Derby biscuits weigh down and make into a dough 3 lb. 
soft flour, Ih lb. butter, 1^ lb. castor sugar, 4 oz. currants, and six eggs. 
Pin out to ^ in. thick, cut out with a small plain cutter 1| in. small Derby 
in diameter, and bake in an oven at about 380° F. Biscuits. 

For large Derby biscuits make dough as prepared for the small variety. 
Pin out to I in. thick, and cut out with a large crimp cutter Large Derby 
3i in. in diameter. Biscuits. 

Fancy Wine Biscuits 

For fancy wine biscuits the dough is cut out with small cutters of 
various shapes (fig. 65). They are washed over with egg, and turned over 
on a mixture of finely chopped almonds and small sugar nibs. Fancy Wine 
They are baked on clean dry baking sheets in a hot oven Biscuits, 
(about 400° F.). Besides using almonds and sugar nibs, part of the biscuits 







Fig. 65.— Biscuit Cutters 

may be decorated with preserved cherries and angelica. The dough may 
be prepared with the following ingredients: 2 J lb. soft flour, ^ lb. ground 
almonds, 1^ lb. castor sugar, 1 lb. 6 oz. butter, six small eggs, and the 
zest of two oranges. 

A much cheaper but quite satisfactory biscuit is made with the follow- 
ing: 3 lb. flour, 1;^ lb. cheap castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. lard, 1^ oz. 
No. 2 powder, 3 gills milk, egg colouring, and essence of lemon. Divide 

Vol. I. 52 



406 BISCUITS 

the dough into two pieces, add currants to one and caraway seeds to the 
other, and cut out in various shapes. 

Easter Cakes 

Easter calces are in much greater favour in the provinces than in 
London. These biscuits are prepared from a rich biscuit paste, flavoured 
F c w with grated nutmeg or mixed spice. They are made very 

thin and cut out with a large crimp cutter, and baked 
sufficiently to colour the edge brown. The flavour of the butter is 
quickly spoiled in biscuits which are overbaked, although they may 
not be discoloured enough to make them unsaleable. With the following 
ingredients prepare a dough as for ordinary wine biscuits: 2^ lb. soft 
flour, 1| lb. butter, 1^ lb. sugar, \ lb. currants, five eggs, and a little grated 
nutmeg. Pin out to yV ^^- thick, and cut out with a 3J-in. crimp cutter. 

Moss Biscuits 

For moss biscuits weigh down 2 lb. biscuit flour, 1 lb. butter, ^ lb. castor 
sugar, \ lb. corn flour, and five eggs. Prepare a dough in the usual way, 
,, _,. . flavoured with lemon zest. Divide the paste into small 

Moss Biscuits. . 1 • r. 1 1 

pieces about the size or walnuts, and with the back of an 
iron spoon force each piece separately through the meshes of a wire sieve. 
To ensure success in shaping these biscuits, remove the dough from the 
sieve by raising it with the bowl of the spoon, keep each collection of 
paste shreds together, and lay upon papered baking sheets. Bake in a hot 
oven (about 420° F.), touch the top of each with liquid gum, using a camel's- 
hair brush, and sprinkle green cocoanut or pistachio over them. 

EiCH Almond Biscuits 

Rich almond biscuits are covered with a layer of almond cream or 
frangipane filling (see Victoria Tarts, p. 340) masked with apricot jelly or 
Rich Almond various coloured water icings. Prepare as follows. Cover a 
Biscuits. small baking sheet with a thin layer of No. 5 short paste 

or the dough as for moss biscuits. Stab the paste to prevent its blister- 
ing while in the oven, and cover with a thin layer of almond cream. Place 
a wooden baton at the open end of the baking sheet, and bake in an oven 
at about 370° F. When cold, mask with hot apricot jelly or thin water 
icing, and partly cover this with finely chopped roasted almonds and green 
cocoanut. Cut into small shapes with a knife or cutters, to sell by weight 

or otherwise. 

Wholemeal Gingernut Biscuits 

Very few plain dry biscuits are now made by the baker and con- 
fectioner. Factory biscuits sold at popular prices have more or less taken 
Wholemeal their place. Of the few that are left for the confectioner, one 
Gingernut of the best known is the wholemeal gingernut biscuit, which 
is prepared as follows. Weigh down upon the board 3J lb. 
wholemeal, 3^ lb. plain flour, with which is incorporated 3 oz. Na. 1 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 407 

powder. Rub in 12 oz. butter, make a bay, add 3 lb. warmed golden 
syrup, 1^ lb. castor sugar, 1^ oz. ground ginger, ^ oz. mixed spice, and make 
all into a medium stiff dough. Pin out to | in. thick, cut out with a 1^-in. 
plain cutter, and bake upon greased baking sheets in a moderate oven at 
about 380° F. As these biscuits are inclined to spread slightly while baking, 
place them on the baking trays about f in. apart. 

Coffee Biscuits 

Coffee biscuits contain very little fat or sugar. The dough is pinned out 
thin, docked over, and cut out with a small oblong- shaped cutter. They 
are baked in a hot oven upon wire trays. The followintj 

Coffee Biscuits. 

ingredients will make a dough suitable for these biscuits. 
Mix together as for other biscuit paste, 3 lb. of soft flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. 
sugar, 4 eggs, and about 1 pt. of miik. This may be flavoured with essence 
of coflee, and coloured with black jack (p. 321). These biscuits seem to 
have received their name not from any flavouring used in the manu- 
facture, but because they were often served with coflee. 

Presburg Biscuits 

Preshurg biscuits are seldom made now, but w^ere at one time in great 
favour. When carefully prepared they are not to be despised. From rich 
plain bun cake, such as used for cutting up for rusks, prepare a Presburg 
number of oblong-shaped pieces, 2 in. in length and \ in. square. Biscuits. 
Weigh down 3 lb. of ground almonds and 2^ lb. of castor sugar; flavour 
with vanilla sugar, and mix into a paste with part yolks and part whole 
eggs. Mask over each piece of plain cake with the almond paste, spread 
on with a small palette knife, and slightly colour in a hot oven (about 
400° F.). 



CHAPTER LXXVI 

MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 

In the preparation of confectionery whole or ground almonds play an 
important part. For some years confectioners have been induced to buy 
almonds ready for use, either ground, chopped, shredded, Ready-prepared 
or cut into fillets. This system opens the w^ay for adul- Almonds, 
teration, especially with ground almonds, to which are sometimes added 
other nuts of inferior quality. The addition of these affects both the 
flavour and the appearance of the confectionery in which a large quantitj- 
of ground almonds is used. For this reason, and to save Testjn g d 
time and material, it is advisable to test fresh samples of Almonds before 
ground almonds by preparing a small mixing before making ^"''"S- 
the full batch of goods. Where the proper quantity of Qgg whites or other 



408 BISCUITS 

aerating and moistening ingredients are added, and the articles bake with 
Adulteration a pinched appearance, it will be a sure sign that the almonds 
of Almonds. have been adulterated with other nuts containing less oil. 
To improve the appearance of the goods made from such adulterated 
material, extia moistening in the form of whites must be used. On the 
other hand, after testing, if they show signs of flowing too freely, it will 
indicate that the almonds have been oiled during the grinding process, and 
the mixture will require less moisture and sugar to obtain the best results. 
Almonds that are oiled in this way destroy the binding properties of the 
egg whites. This is particularly the case with almond macaroons or such 
goods as contain a large proportion of almonds. Ground almonds of 
this description are dear at any price; they have a slight greasy brown 
colour, which, however, can be readily disguised. For best -quality con- 
Overdried fectionery cut or chopped almonds should not under any circum- 
Aimonds. stances be overdried so as to render them hard and brittle. In 
certain articles it will be necessary to use those that have been prepared 
a few hours previously, so that they eat soft and mellow, Factory- 
To soften prepared almonds are usually more or less hard, and when 

Hard Almonds, wanted soft they must be soaked for a little in water. 
This does not improve the flavour. 

Filleted almonds are useful for decorating various kinds of small and 
Use of Filleted large pieces of confectionery. For the tops of biscuits and 
Almonds. gateaux they must be cut very thin, and yet retain their 

shape. Thick filleted almonds give the goods a clumsy appearance if the 
Mixing Bitter articles are small. The admixture of a small pro- 

Aimonds for Flavour, portion of bitter almonds with the sweet improves 
the flavour. 

To blanch almonds it is necessary to boil them for a few moments in 
plenty of water. Before adding them to the water, sift thoroughly to 
Blanching remove any dust, and pick out any pieces of shell they may 
Almonds. contain. When the skins begin to rise and are easily removed 
by pressing the almond between the thumb and finger, turn out at once 
on a sieve to drain off" the water. Turn the almonds over on a clean sack, 
and rub well to remove as many of the skins as possible without breaking 
the nuts. Fan the almonds in small lots; this will remove the loose skins, 
which will blow ofl" as they are thrown up. By pressing each almond 
between the thumb and finger remove those skins which still adhere. 
During blanching the almonds should not be allowed to cool, or at least to 
dry, or the skins will become dry and stick quite firm again. This difficulty 
Use of Cold ^^^y ^6 overcome by soaking the almonds in cold water directly 
Water in after boiling. They may then be blanched without fear of their 
anc mg. drying quickly. When large quantities of prepared almonds 
are needed, it is profitable to employ machines to perform the blanching, 
filleting, and grinding. When the almonds are required for chopping or 
cutting into fillets, they should remain in a cool place for a few hours before 
this is done; they will then be less brittle. 



k.. 




ALMOND-BLANCHING MACHINE 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 409 

Almond Paste 

AlTYiond paste is used by the confectioner for various purposes. One 
kind that will keep for several days, and is useful for special goods, is 
made as follows. Weigh on the slab 2 lb. of icing sugar, and Raw Almond 
2 lb. of sweet ground almonds. Into a mixing-bowl weigh Paste. 
2 lb. of castor sugar, and add three eggs, and nine yolks. Place the bowl 
over the pan of water on the stove, and while stirring the mixture with 
a spatula heat it to a temperature of 90° F. Mix all with the icing sugar 
and ground almonds already weighed on the slab. This produces a rich 
smooth almond paste. It may be flavoured with rose- or orange-flower 
water, especially if wanted for wedding cakes. Almond paste prepared in 
this way is much better and less sticky than that made by mixing all the 
ingredients together cold. This mixture will be referred to as raw almond 
paste. 

Boiled almond paste is very useful for covering the sides and tops of 
wedding cakes. It is made with boiled sugar. Weigh into a copper or 
brass preserving pan 4 lb. of lump sugar, add 1 pt. of water, Boiled 
and boil to 240° F. Remove from the stove and stir in one Almond Paste, 
tablespoonful of glucose, | gill of orange -flower water, and a little egg 
colour. When these ingredients are well mixed, add 2 lb. of sweet ground 
almonds, stir all together quickly with a stout whisk, and pour at once en 
the cakes. Instead of using egg colour, twelve yolks may be worked in 
while the almonds are being added. This paste must be handled quickly, 
and careful preparation is essential to ensure that the almond paste will 
cut smooth and firm. 

When the sides of a cake are to be covered it should be placed inside 
a hoop slightly larger than the cake. This hoop is lined with Running Boiled 
a band of cartridge paper. As the paste is comparatively Paste on Sides 
thin when hot, it can easily be run in between the hoop 
and the cake until all the space is filled and the top level. As wedding- 
cake customers are generally anxious that friends to Almond Centres in 
whom pieces of the cake are sent should each receive a Weddmg Cakes, 
portion of almond paste, it is necessary in some cases to put a layer in 
the centre as well as on the sides and top. A piece of sheet tin, about 8 in. 
high and about 36 in. long, bent round, will be found use- Tin Support for 
ful when using the boiled almond paste. This may be bent Almond Paste, 
to suit cakes of various sizes, instead of employing the cake hoop, and is 
easily fastened with a piece of stout wire or tied with a cord. 

Almond Macaroons 

One of the oldest and most popular of almond goods is the alm.ond 
macaroon. The introduction of many other kinds of confectionery during 
the last decade has slightly modified the demand, but no con- Almond 
fectioner would think his list of shop goods coi»plete without Macaroons, 
macaroons. It is only in first-class shops that they are made with pure 



410 BISCUITS 

ground almonds. The general tendency is to prepare them from specially- 
prepared macaroon or marzipan paste, to which extra sugar is added. In 
using bought marzipan paste for making macaroons, no definite quantity of 
sugar can be given, as these nut pastes vary. The confectioner is on the 
safe side when he makes a practice of testing each fresh sample, and so 
ascertaining how much sugar is needed. 

A rich-eating macaroon is made as follows. Weigh on the slab free 
from grease or flour 1 lb. of sweet ground almonds, 2 lb. of coarse-grained 
Recipe for sugar, and 3 oz. of ground rice. Mix these together, and add 
Macaroons, i p^ ^nd 1 white of egg, or about 11; make all into a medium 
stiff" paste, and work this thoroughly with the hands. Transfer to the 
mixing -bowl, and with a wooden spatula or spoon beat the paste well 
for several minutes. For macaroons to retail at Id. each, sixteen may 
be made from 1 lb. of paste. With a forcing- bag and |-in. plain tube 
lay the paste out on baking sheets covered with wafer paper, place a 
split almond on each, throw some granulated or coarse castor sugar on 
them, and bake in a steady oven about 380° F. Owing to these biscuits 
Why Macaroons Containing SO much sugar careful baking is required, as 
are baked in too hot an oven will cause them to flow more than is 

o ven. necessary. Mixing the ingredients well together with 
pestle and mortar, if these are in use, is a better method than merely 
Stale Sponge mixing on the marble slab. Half -stale sponge-cake crumbs 
in Macaroons, mixed with the almonds may be used for cheapening the 
mixture. When this is done more whites are needed, and the macaroons 
dry quickly. 

Cherry Macaroons 

Another sort of macaroon is baked upon a paste bottom, which is made 
by mixing together, as for short paste, 1^ lb. of soft flour, 10 oz. of butter, 
Cherry 2 1^. of castor sugar, and 3 small eggs. Pin out this paste to 

Macaroons. 1. jjj thick; with a 2^-in. crimp cutter cut out the number of 
pieces required, and lay these on a baking sheet splashed with water. 
Prepare a mixing of macaroon paste as directed for penny macaroons; mix 
into this 4 oz. of citron peel and 4 oz. of cherries, both ingredients to be 
chopped very fine. With the bag and -|-in. tube drop this upon the bottoms 
of sweet paste to within ^ in. of the border. Place a small whole pre- 
served cherry in the centre of each, cover with granulated sugar, and bake. 
These cherry macaroons may be baked upon paste bottoms cut out with 
a small 2|-in. cutlet-cutter, and finished by placing small pieces of pre- 
served cherries and chopped almonds on top. 

Macarons Brillants 

Weigh into a mixing-bowl 1 lb. of ground almonds and If lb. of fine- 
Macarons grained castor sugar; mix thoroughly into a smooth paste with 
Brillants. gj^ large whites of egg. Beat eight whites quite firm, and Math 
a spatula stir these in with the almond paste. This requires careful mixing. 



MACAEOONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 411 

and the whites should be added a little at a time to keep the paste as 
light as possible. With bag and |-in. plain tube lay the mixture out on 
papered baking sheets, sprinkle over some coloured nonpareils, Light 
and bake double-tinned in a moderate oven (360° F.) with the Macaroon 
door partly open. When ready transfer the papers to the board, 
already wetted with hot water; remove the biscuits and pair them together. 
The moisture on the bottom will cause them to adhere. The double baking 
sheet is required to prevent the bottoms from taking too much colour. 
It is well to remember, when preparing mixtures by the method just 
given, that besides having the beaten whites perfectly care in Mixing 
firm, it is also essential to have the almond paste neither Whites in Paste, 
too firm nor too soft, but soft enough to mix readily with the whites 
without causing the air cells to burst. 

Maoarons Demours 

This is another variety of macaroon prepared in the same manner. If 
these are to be retailed at Id. each it is not necessary to sandwich them 
together. The mixture, if carefully prepared, will yield a very Macarons 
light article. Extra colour may be obtained by baking on only Demours. 
one baking sheet. Make into a paste with eight whites and vanilla essence, 

1 lb. 2 oz. of ground almonds, 10 oz, of icing sugar, 8 oz. castor sugar, and 
6 oz. of crushed crumbs of ratafias or macaroons. Beat up use for Maca- 
eight whites quite firm, and mix these into the almond paste. ^°°^ Crumbs. 
With bag and tube lay out on papered baking sheets, cover with pieces of 
broken macaroon and finely chopped almonds, and bake as directed for 
macarons brillants. Many choice penny articles may be made by lining 
fancy-shaped moulds with rich short paste, and filling in with either of the 
mixtures made according to these two recipes given for macaroons with 
whipped egg whites. Other nuts than almonds may be used. 

Chocolate Macaroons 

For chocolate macaroons (see Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits, No. 8) 
weigh into a pan or mortar 12 oz. of ground almonds and 1 lb. of fine- 
grained castor sugar; add seven egg whites, and mix all together chocolate 
until fairly light, as for ordinary macaroons. At this stage add Macaroons. 
a little vanilla essence or vanilla sugar, also melted unsweetened cocoa to 
colour and flavour the paste. Lay out on a baking sheet covered with 
"wafer paper, place a split almond on each, dredge on some granulated 
sugar, and bake at a steady temperature. These goods are generally sold 
by the pound from Is. 6d. upwards. Mix the melted cocoa Method of 
with about one-third of the almond paste before adding this Mixing Cocoa, 
to the whole mixture. The reason for this is that the cocoa sets firm 
quickly when mixed with a cold paste, and may produce lumps. 

A less expensive chocolate macaroon is made from the following recipe: 

2 lb. of ground almonds, 4J lb. of coarse castor sugar, 8 oz. of ground rice. 



412 BISCUITS 

Cheap Chocolate 4^ giUg of whites, 4 oz. of melted cocoa, a little caramel 
colouring, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a few drops 
of carmine. The method is the same as that already described. 

Ratafias 

Ratafias are very small almond biscuits made about f in. in diameter. 
They are used alone or mixed with other fancy biscuits, and they are very 
Ratafias and useful for building up vases and baskets, and for making 
their Uses. raised trifles. For ratafias mix together as for ordinary 
macaroons 1 lb. of sweet ground almonds, 2 oz. of bitter almonds or a 
little oil of almonds, \\ lb. of coarse castor sugar, and six large whites. 
Lay the biscuits very small on cartridge paper, flatten the top of each 
with a damp brush, and dust lightly with castor sugar; then bake in a 
solid oven at 380° F. When baked, transfer the papers to a wetted board, 
remove the biscuits from the paper, and lay them on a wire tray to be 
kept in the drying oven for two hours. 

In some districts a cheaper kind of ratafia is required, which may 
Cheaper be made with the following quantities: 1 lb. of sweet ground 
Ratafias, almonds, 2\ lb. of coarse castor sugar, 6 oz. of ground rice, and 
14 whites. Mix in the usual way, and flavour with a little oil of almonds. 

Fancy Macaroons 

For fancy r)iacaroons weigh into a mixing-bowl 1 lb. of sweet ground 
almonds, 1^ lb. of castor sugar, and 2 oz. of vanilla sugar. Mix all into 
Fancy a paste of macaroon consistency with about seven whites. With 

Macaroons. \yQ^g g^jj(j ^.j^ plain tube lay the paste out on baking sheets 
covered with wafer paper about 1 in. in diameter. Hold the forcing-bag 
upright during the operation, and drop the biscuits a little more than ^ in. 
high. Cover with granulated sugar, make an impression in the centre of 
each with the handle of a wooden spoon, and bake in an oven at 360° F. 
When quite cold, fill the centres with clear, hot apricot jelly. Decorate this 
with various coloured fondants, such as coffee, vanilla, green, and pink, by 
piping on top of the jelly a little fondant of either colour. These biscuits, 
with their various coloured centres, look very attractive, especially where 
delicate colours are used. 

Orange Macaroons 

Orange macaroons (see Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits, No. 2) may be 
prepared with the same mixture, and flavoured with the zest of three 
Orange oranges in place of the vanilla. Lay out round, and cover with 

Macaroons, granulated sugar; then make a small hole in the centre of each, 
and bake to a light golden colour. To finish these small biscuits fill the 
centres with orange fondant and a little chopped pistachio nuts; or fill with 
hot apricot jelly, and pipe a little fondant over that. To ensure that each 
biscuit is properly covered with sugar, and to prevent waste, lay the pieces 
of wafer paper on the board when forcing out the almond paste. The 
sugar which does not adhere to the goods may then be easily shaken off.' 



MACAEOONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 413 

As a thin skin quickly forms upon the paste when on the paper, these 
biscuits should be covered with the sugar and baked as ^^^ Macaroons 
soon as possible. With large macaroons, the shape is often are sometimes 
spoiled by insufficient attention to this matter, and instead "^ ^^^ ^' 
of having a honeycomb surface, ugly cracks form on top, which spoil the 
appearance. 

Reference has been made to the use of green desiccated cocoanut in 
place of pistachio nuts. The latter are mostly used for decorative purposes, 
and contain no special flavour. As they are retailed at about 3s. Qd. and 
upwards per pound, they should only be utilized for high-class confectionery. 
Coloured cocoanut or finely chopped almonds serve as substitutes, coloured 
and may be coloured with " Breton " green paste, mixed with a Cocoanut. 
little spirits of wine. Prepare as follows. Place into a shallow pan the 
almonds or cocoanut, add the colour, made liquid with spirit, and mix all 
together between the hands. To obtain the natural colour of pistachio it 
may be necessary to mix some yellow colour along with the imitating 
vegetable green; and by constantly comparing the substitute Pistachios, 
with some chopped pistachio nuts the imitation may be nearly perfect. 
It is better to use spirits than water, as the former quickly dries and 
leaves a brightness which is not obtained otherwise. To prepare pink 
cocoanut, add liquid carmine mixed with some spirit, and store in an air- 
tight canister as soon as this becomes dry. 

Pineapple Macaroons 

Pineapple macaroons (see Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits, No. 7) are 
prepared with almond paste in the same way as orange macaroons, and are 
flavoured with essence of pineapple. In the usual way, drop pineapple 
the paste on wafer paper laid on the board, in fingers about Macaroons. 
Ih in. long and | in. wide. Cover at once with granulated sugar and place 
on a baking sheet; then make an incision down the centre of each, and 
bake in the oven to a light golden colour. When cold, fill in the centres 
with yellow fondant flavoured with pineapple, and lay a thin narrow piece 
of preserved pineapple on each biscuit. 

Another method by which these choice biscuits may be finished is to fill 
the centres with hot apricot jelly with which has been mixed some finely 
chopped pieces of preserved pineapple. 

Strawberry Macaroons 

Strawbe'n^y macaroons have an attractive appearance. They are pre- 
pared as follows. Mix together, as for ordinary macaroons, 1 lb. of ground 
almonds, Ih lb. of granulated sugar, about 7 large whites, and strawberry 
enough liquid carmine and essence of strawberry to colour and Macaroons. 
flavour the paste. Lay out with bag and plain tube as for orange 
macaroons, cover with sugar, and bake in an oven about 380° F. These 
biscuits when baked should have very little brown colour, so that the pink 
paste and sugar crystals may show clear. Fill in the centres with red 

Vol. I. 53 



414 BISCUITS 

apricot jelly flavoured with essence of strawberry. When the jelly has 
almost set firm, place some finely chopped pistachio nuts on the centre. 

Parisian or French Rout Biscuits 

These biscuits (see Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits, No. 1) have more 
or less taken the place of the old-fashioned English routs, as they eat 
French Rout softer and are quickly made. To obtain the best results. 
Biscuits. very fine ground almonds must be used. The biscuits should 

be laid out with a :^-in. star tube cut to show at least twelve points. 
Weigh on the board 1 lb. of sweet ground almonds, 14 oz. of fine-grained 
castor or icing sugar, and 2 oz. of vanilla sugar. Mix all together with 
about five whites. The consistency of the paste should be a little firmer 
than for orange macaroons. Cover a baking sheet with cartridge paper, 
and with a bag and star tube lay out in various shapes as shown on 
the plate. Decorate some with preserved fruits. Make a small hole in 
the others with the end of a wooden spoon occasionally wetted. With 
part of the paste, pipe two long lines side by side and slightly press 
the centre with the spoon. Allow these to remain all night, and bake 
next day on double baking sheets for a few minutes in a solid oven at 
450° F. The biscuits should not be dried, but coloured to a pale golden 
colour, and when transferred from the oven they should be washed over 
with stock syrup or prepared liquid gum arable. Fill the cavities made 
with the spoon with various coloured fondants, and let these set firm. Cut 
the double long piece into squares or other shapes, remove from the paper 
Quick Method ^^^ ^^y ^° ^ ^^^^ tray. When these biscuits are required at 
of making short notice, warm the almond paste in the hain-raarie; it 

will soften with the heat, and it must be laid out at once. 
Decorate with fruit, and place into the drying oven for two hours to cool; 
then bake and finish as described. The partial drying of this paste before 
baking prevents the biscuits from spreading. 

These and other biscuits may be laid upon baking sheets covered with 
Dropping on a thin layer of clarified fat and flour instead ot on 

Baking Sheets only, cartridge paper. The tins used for this purpose must 
be perfectly clean, and fresh fat must be used; otherwise the biscuits would 
quickly spoil by the fat becoming rancid. 

Etoile Biscuits 

Prepare a mixture of paste as described above, flavour with orange- 
flower water, and colour with liquid carmine. With bag and fine-cut star 
]6toile tube force out the paste in small star shapes upon papered baking 
Biscuits, sheets. Make a small hole in the centre of each biscuit, then dry 
on the outside, bake in a hot oven, and wash over with gum arable. Fill 
each centre with pale-green fondant, flavoured with orange-flower water, 
and place a small silver dragee on top. 

Another kind of etoile biscuit is made as follows. Weigh down 1^ lb. - 



TYPES OF FANCY DESSERT BISCUITS 

1. Parisian Biscuits. 

2. Oraftge Macaroons. 

3. Amandines. 

4. Dutch Macaroons. 

5. Almond Batons. 

6. Marzipan Dessert. 

7. Pineapple Macaroons. 

8. Chocolate Macaroons. 

9. Souffles Venetiennes. 

10. Spanish Macaroons. 

11. English Rout Biscuits. 




TYPES OF FANCY DESSERT BISCUITS 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 415 

of fresh butter, 14 oz. soft flour, 6 oz. sweet ground almonds, and 6 oz. of 
icing sugar. Flavour with vanilla, and mix these ingredients Another 
together as when preparing Viennese pastries (see p. 372). Then Variety, 
witli bag and |-in. star tube force out the paste in small star-shaped pieces, 
place half a preserved cherry on each, allow to lie in a cool place for two 
hours, and bake in a hot oven (about 400° F.). These biscuits do not require 
much baking, as the flavour of the butter is destroyed if they are in any 
way overbaked. 

LORANGE PiSTACHE 

A very nice-eating and attractive biscuit is known as lorange pistache 
(see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 2). This is prepared with two coloured 
pieces of almond paste made as follows. Make into a medium Lorange 
stiff paste for pinning out, 5i oz. of ground almonds, 5| oz. of Pistache. 
fine-grained castor sugar, a little vanilla flavouring, and one large white 
of egg. Prepare another paste with 2 oz. of icing sugar and 2 oz. of 
ground almonds mixed with orange - flower water and slightly coloured 
green. Pin out the white paste to ^ in. thick and about 1^ in. wide, wash 
over with egg white, and on the centre lay the green paste, rolled out round 
under the hands the full length of the white paste, and as thick as an 
ordinary lead pencil. Draw over the sides of the white paste, and close 
together to cover up the green paste entirely. Slightly Baking between Bars 
flatten with the hand, and bake between two small °f ^^°^ °^ Wood, 
steel bars on a baking sheet in a moderate oven at 370° F. Long pieces of 
wood greased may be used instead of the steel bars. Remove the biscuits 
from between the bars, cover the top with thin water icing flavoured with 
orange zest, and sprinkle over them some finely chopped pistachio nuts. 
Where a large quantity of these biscuits are being prepared and extra 
strong orange -flower water is used, dilute this with ordinary water for 
making the green almond paste, but use no whites. 

Walnut Macaroons 

For walnut macaroons weigh 1 lb. of sweet ground almonds and 1| lb. 
of granulated sugar. Mix into a paste of ordinary macaroon consistency 
with whites; flavour with essence of walnut, and colour pink Walnut 
with liquid carmine. With bag and |-in. plain tube force the Macaroons, 
paste out round upon wafer paper about 1 in. in diameter, lay a split walnut 
upon each, and bake at a steady temperature of 370° F. 

BouLES Egyptiennes 

Mix into a medium stiff" paste 1 lb. 11 oz. of sweet ground almonds, 
2 lb. 10 oz. of fine-grained castor sugar, and about 8 large whites. Flavour 
with essences of vanilla and raspberry. Divide the paste into Boules 
two pieces, colour one with carmine, the other with vegetable ^gyptiennes. 
green, and divide both into small pieces about the size of large cherries. 
Dust well with castor sugar, and roll each piece round between the hands. 



416 BISCUITS 

Prepare some thin light royal icing without acid; drop the pieces of almond 
Masking with paste into this a few at a time; then transfer to a heap of 

Filleted Almonds, f^esh thin filleted almonds. Roll on the almonds until the 
paste is covered, and bake in a cold oven (350° F.) on greased and floured 
baking sheets. When baked, the almonds should be slightly tinted brown, 
and the almond paste covered with a sheen of glac^ sugar. These biscuits, 
when carefully prepared, may be mixed with those classed as "high-class 
desserts". (See Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 5.) 

Rosamond Drops 

Rosamond drops are made from the same paste as the last. Roll the 
pieces on a slab dusted with castor sugar, in lengths a little more than \ in. 
Rosamond thick. Cut into pieces about 1 in. long, mask with royal icing 
Drops. ag described above, and roll upon some chopped shredded cocoa- 

nut. Bake in a slow oven on baking sheets covered with wafer paper. 

Fours Framboises 

Fours framhoises are made as follows. Weigh into a mixing-bowl 8 oz. 
of ground almonds, 8 oz. of castor sugar, 2 oz. of corn flour, and 4 oz. of 
Fours stale cake crumbs. Mix all together with about six whites, 

Framboises. flavour with essence of raspberry, and colour with carmine. 
Beat the paste well, and mix in lightly four whites whipped quite firm. 
Prepare some pieces of cartridge paper 8 in. square, lay these upon the 
board, and with bag and |-in. plain tube lay out the paste in small drops. 
Cover with very fine chopped almonds, place upon the baking sheets, dust 
with icing sugar, and bake with the oven door partly open at a tem- 
perature of about 860° F. When cold, remove from the paper with a 
sharp knife, and sandwich together with warm royal icing flavoured with 
raspberry essence and coloured pink. The icing should be mixed without 
acid, and not made over-warm, or it will set too hard. 

Nemours Biscuits 

Pin out to I in. some sweet biscuit paste as used for cherry macaroons. 
With a plain oval cutter, 1^ in. by f in., cut out the number of pieces 
Nemours required, and lay them on a baking sheet splashed with water. 
Biscuits, Weigh 1^ lb. of ground sweet almonds, 4 oz. of ground bitter 
almonds. If lb. of fine-grained castor sugar flavoured with noyau, and 
mix into a medium stifl" paste with seven whites of egg. With forcing- 
bag and ^-in. star tube pipe upon each piece of sweet paste a rope- 
shaped piece of almond mixture, by twisting the tube round about three 
times to cover the paste bottom entirely. Make an incision down the centre 
of each, allow to stand for some time, and when dry on the outside bake 
To make Telly ^^ ^ solid oven at 450° F. Wash with syrup or gum arable, 
firm for and fill in the groove with hot, red apricot jelly. The jelly 

ecoration. gives a very nice finish to these biscuits, but must be boiled 

to the full thread degree before using, so that it may set firm. 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 417 

Macarons Blancs 

Weigh upon the board 1 lb. of sweet ground almonds, 1{ lb. of fine- 
grained castor sugar, or half castor and half icing sugar, 2 oz. of fresh 
butter, and 2 oz. of corn flour. Make all into a stiff paste, with Macarons 
about five whites, and flavour with a little noyau. Mix the Blancs. 
paste thoroughly to toughen, and divide into small pieces twice the size 
of cherries. Dust with castor sugar, and while shapings each piece round 
between the hands, press a small bright preserved cherry inside. Prepare 
a shallow pan partly filled with dry icing sugar, roll the pieces of almond 
paste in this to cover entirely with sugar, and transfer to Spanish 
slightly greased baking sheets. Bake in a cool oven (340° F.) Macaroons, 
with very little colour. These small almond goods are sometimes called 
Spanish macaroons (see Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits, No. 10). 

Almond Batons 

Another small biscuit, known as almond baton (see Plate, Fancy 

Dessert Biscuits, No. 5), is made as follows. Mix together into a 

medium stiff paste with about eight whites, 1 lb. of icing ., ^ „ 

11 c T 1 II p J 11 1 Almond Batons, 

sugar, 1 lb. oi castor sugar, 1^ lb. or sweet ground almonds, 

12 oz. of finely chopped walnut and hazel nuts mixed, and 3 oz. of 
vanilla sugar. Work the paste thoroughly to ensure that all the in- 
gredients are well mixed, and roll out in lengths, about ^ in. in diameter. 
Cut into small pieces about 1^ in. long, and roll on some thin filleted 
almonds. The paste should be of such consistency as to be easily rolled 
out, and soft enough for the almonds to adhere. Place on greased baking 
sheets or wafer paper, and allow to remain for four hours before baking 
in a solid oven at 450° F. Wash over with syrup or liquid gum to glaze 
them after baking. If the almonds do not stick readily to the paste, 
brush it over with white of egg and the difiiculty is overcome. 

Another kind of almond baton is made with a much lighter mixture 
as follows. Mix together upon a sheet of paper 10 oz. of sweet ground 
-almonds, 10 oz. of castor sugar, 3 oz. of corn flour, and 2 oz. Almond 
of vanilla sugar. Whisk quite firm sixteen whites, and with Batons, No. 2. 
a spoon or spatula stir the dry ingredients in carefully. The success of this 
operation depends largely upon the careful manner in which the mixture 
is handled. Lay upon the board some pieces of cartridge paper, and with 
bag and |-in. plain tube pipe out the paste in l^^-in. lengths. Cover with 
finely chopped almonds, place upon baking sheets, dust with icing sugar, 
and bake in an oven about 360° F. After baking remove from the paper, 
and sandwich together with apple jelly, rich chocolate fondant, or butter 
cream. 

Almond Drops 

Almond drops (see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 4) are another very 
•nice kind of biscuit made with the same mixture. Lay out the biscuits. 



418 



BISCUITS 



Almond Drops. 



about 1 in. in diameter, on cartridge paper, cover with chopped almonds, 
dust with icing sugar, and bake in a cool oven (about 
360° F.). Remove these from the paper when quite cold, 
sandwich together with red currant or red apricot jelly, and dust with 
Why Baked in icing sugar. It is absolutely necessary to bake these very 
a Cold Oven. light articles in a cool oven. If the oven is too hot, they 
quickly take colour before they are baked through, and sink in when 
taken out. The chopped almonds must be sifted through a coarse sieve 
Sizing and Clear- ^^ ^a,ve the pieces of as nearly equal size as possible, 
ing Almonds A fine sieve should be used to remove the almond powder 

^°™^ "^ ■ from the chopped pieces. Extra powder or very tine 

pieces of almond are sure to be found amongst very dry almonds after 
these have been chopped. 

English Rout Biscuits 

English rout biscuits (see Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits, No. 11) 
are made in various shapes, and decorated with royal icing, chopped 
English Rout pistachio nuts, silver drage'es, and coloured nonpareils. Pre- 
Biscuits. pare the paste by mixing together with yolks into a stiff 

dough: 1 lb. of ground almonds, 1 lb. of very fine castor sugar, and 2 oz. 
of vanilla sugar. Cut part of the paste into small pieces, roll these on 

the board dusted with castor 
sugar, so as to make them about 
3 in. long, and a little thinner 
than an ordinary lead pencil. 




Fig. 66.— Filbert-cutter 



Fold into fancy shapes as shown 
on the plate, and lay on baking 
sheets covered with cartridge 
paper. With this paste small 
birds' nests, &c., may be made up, 
and a moss-like appearance can be obtained in other cases by taking a 
number of small round pieces, and, with the back of an iron spoon, forcing 
these through the mesh of a wire sieve turned upside down. The sieve is 
then turned over, and with a knife the small clusters of paste shreds are 
removed and placed on papered trays. Small crown shapes are prepared 
by pinning the paste out to | in. thick, and cutting from this, with a filbert- 
cutter (fig. QQ), small pieces about 2 in. long and | in. wide. Fold round in 
a circle, and stick the ends together with egg; then lay on papered baking 
sheets with the points upright. Many other shapes may be made with this 
paste, but to ensure neatness and daintiness they should all be kept small. 
Allow to lie until the next day, and bake in a hot oven (490" F.). Glaze 
with liquid gum arable, and decorate with royal icing and pieces of cherries, 

angelica, &c. 

Filbert Biscuits 

Filbert biscuits may be made with the same paste as is used for the 
routs. Pin this to J in. thick, and cut with a filbert-cutter (fig. 67) into 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 



419 



small pieces about h in. wide and f in. in length. Fold over each small 

piece of paste, and insert a thin Filbert 
piece of filleted almond down be- Biscuits, 
tween the points. Fasten four pieces together 
with a little yolk of egg to make the filbert 
(as shown on Plate of Fancy Dessert 
Biscuits, Nos. 8 and 10), and lay Finishing 
upon a greased or papered baking Filberts, 
sheet. Leave until the next day, and bake 
in an oven about 400° F. Glaze with gum, 
and around the centre, where the pieces of 
paste have been joined together, fix some 
finely chopped pistachio nuts. To ensure a neat shape for these biscuits, 
extra care should be taken to join the several pieces together carefully. 




Fig. 67.— Filbert-cutter 



T 1 



Fig. 68.— Paste cut for Filberts 



Mixed with other biscuits, or dished separately, they make an attractive 
sample of confectionery. 

Almond Routs 

Another kind of biscuit, cut out with small variously-shaped cutters, 
and known as almond routs (see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 6), is pre- 
pared as follows. Weigh down 1 lb. of ground almonds, ., ^ „ 

HP 1 11 c n -1 Almond Routs. 

1 lb. of stale cake crumbs, 1 lb. or fine - gramed castor 

sugar, and 2 oz. vanilla sugar. Mix into a paste for pinning out, M'ith 
part yolks and part whole eggs. Pin out to I in. thick, cut out with 
small fancy cutters, and place on slightly greased baking sheets. Allow 
to lie overnight. Then wash twice with egg, and bake in a hot oven 
(about 400° F.). Decorate these with preserved cherries, angelica, various 
coloured fondants, and royal icing. The paste should be made just tight 
enough for easy working, and not too firm, lest it should crack while 
baking. 

Raspberry Biscuits 

Another biscuit made with part cake crumbs is known as raspberry 
biscuit. This may be cut small to retail by the pound, or prepared to sell 
in cakes at one penny each. Mix into a medium stiff" paste 1 lb. Raspberry 
of stale sponge-cake crumbs, 1 lb. of castor sugar, h lb. of ground Biscuits, 
almonds, a few drops of essence of raspberry, a little carmine to colour, with 



420 BISCUITS 

part yolks and part whole eggs. Pin out the paste to ^ in. thick, draw 
a damp splash brush over it, and cover the top with wafer paper. Turn the 
paste over upon a baking sheet, and spread it on a layer of bright-coloured 
raspberry jam. Pin out the remainder of the paste, lay this upon the jam, 
. and leave until the next day. Prepare some icing made with 
icing sugar and whole eggs, and with a palette knife spread 
a layer of this on the raspberry paste. Cut the paste into small shapes as 
required with a clean knife dipped occasionally in hot water, and bake in 
a moderate oven (about 360° F.). 

Dutch Macaroons 

Dutch macaroons (Macarons hoUandais; see Plate, Fancy Dessert 
Biscuits, No. 4) are small, walnut-shaped, and very light biscuits. Made 
Dutch in various colours and mixed together, they have a very fine 

Macaroons, appearance. Where possible the mortar and pestle should be 
used for mixing the various ingredients. They do not require a great 
deal of beating, but must be thoroughly mixed to make the paste quite 
To prevent Blow- smooth with plenty of body. There should be a sheen 
ing in Dutch upon the surface, and they require careful baking to 

obtain perfect shapes. Baking in too hot an oven will 
cause the biscuits to blow in the centre; too much beating will have 
the same effect. As the mixture here given for these biscuits contains 
about three times as much sugar as almonds, overheating would cause them 
to become more like souffles than macaroons. Prepare the paste as follows, 
and, where no mortar is available, mix all together upon the marble slab. 
Weigh down 1;^ lb. of ground almonds, 2f lb. of icing sugar, and 4 oz. of 
vanilla sugar. Mix the dry ingredients together, gradually adding fifteen 
whites to make all into a paste. Mix very thoroughly; then with a bag and 
:|-in. plain tube lay out in small oval shapes, 1 in. long, on papered baking 
sheets. The paste should be of such consistency as to flow readily on the 
paper a few seconds after laying out, without showing an uneven surface. 
On the other hand, the paste must be stiif enough to retain the oval shape. 
Allow to remain overnight, to dry partly, and with the point of a very 
thin knife cut each biscuit lengthways along the centre. Bake at once at 
a moderate temperature (about 350° F.). When baked, transfer the papers 
to a wet board; remove the biscuits, and sandwich together. After soaking 
the paper there should be enough moisture on the biscuits to cause them to 
adhere together readily. Where any difficulty is found in this matter, sand- 
Ouick Method "^ich them together with hot apricot jelly. These biscuits 
for Dutch may be prepared at a few hours' notice by warming the 

acaroons. paste over a pan of water. When this is laid out, place the 
trays into the drying oven until the paste partly dries. Transfer to a cool 
place, and when cold, cut and bake as already described. Working by this 
method, the paste will require less white of egg, as the sugar by being 
warmed partly dissolves, and the mixture should not be heated above 90° F. 
Various flavours other than vanilla may be added to the paste. A nice 



FANCY BISCUITS 

1. Patience. 

2. Lorange Fistache. 

3. Carres Cafe. 

4. Almond Drops. 

5. Boules Egyptiennes. 

6. Almond Routs. 

7. Biscuits Marquises. 

8. Cocoanut Dessert. 

9. Viennese Batons. 

10. Negro Biscuits. 

11. Almond Acorns. 

12. Vanilla Boats. 






J 



PP f^r 











■.5?»^ 



^•^T 











^^1^ 



% 
















#•% 




^•>i^#f% 



FANCY BISCUITS 



I 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 421 

assortment may be made by dividing the paste into four parts, and flavour- 
ing one with coffee essence, another with vanilla, a third with chocolate, 
and the fourth with essence of strawberry. Each flavour should have a 
different-coloured paste. 

Dora Fancies 

To prepare Dora fancies, pin out a thin piece of marzipan paste, 
flavoured with maraschino, to \ in. thick. Lay this upon wafer paper, 
cover with hot, red apricot jelly flavoured with maraschino, 
and cover with another piece of marzipan paste of the same 
thickness. Brush over the top with syrup and maraschino mixed together, 
and cover with finely chopped roasted almonds and pistachio nuts. Put 
in a cool place for twenty-four hours, and cut into small fancy shapes. 
Flavoured well with maraschino, these attractive small cakes sell well, the 
jelly showing a bold contrast to the white paste. 

Anglo-Swiss Biscuits 

With part meringue and part almond paste, some very choice biscuits 
of the Anglo-Swiss variety may be prepared. These are very fragile, and 
in consequence require careful handling. Beat eight large Anglo -Swiss 
whites quite firm. Whites that have been separated for some Biscuits, 
eight or ten hours, and allowed to stand in a cool place, are most satis- 
factory for this purpose. Whisk in 4 oz. of fine-grained castor sugar to 
toughen; then remove the whisk, and carefully mix in with a spoon or 
spatula 4 oz. of ground rice and 10 oz. of castor sugar mixed together. 
With a forcing-bag and \-\n. plain tube lay out the meringue in small 
oval rings, IJ in. in length and f in. wide, upon specially greased and 
floured baking sheets. When all are laid out, cover with fine desiccated 
cocoanut; then turn the tins upside down to remove the cocoanut which 
is not adhering to the meringue. With another bag and small tube fill the 
centres in with almond cream made by mixing together 4 oz. of butter, 
4 oz. of sugar, 4 oz. ground almonds, 2 large eggs, and a few drops of vanilla 
essence. Bake in a moderate oven (about 340° F.) to a light golden colour. 
Cover the centre with hot apricot jelly, or pink fondant and finely chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

Zanzibar Biscuits 

Another very light biscuit prepared with whipped whites is named 

from Zanzibar. These are made in various colours, according to the flavour 

used. Whisk twelve whites quite firm, and, while so doing, Zanzibar 

gradually add 4 oz. of fine castor sugar. Remove the whisk Biscuits. 

and stir in lightly 1 lb. of castor sugar, 6 oz. of com flour, and the finely 

chopped zest of three oranges. Prepare the baking sheets with grease and 

flour, and with ^-in. plain tube lay out in small drops about 1 in. in 

diameter. Dust over well with icing sugar through a muslin bag, and bake 

in a steady oven at about 360° F. Remove when cold and leave plain, or 

sandwich them together with a thin layer of warmed royal icing flavoured 

with orange-flower water. 

Vol. I. 54 



422 BISCUITS 



Souffles 



Many kinds of souffles, made in various flavours and baked in small 
paper cases, are quickly and easily prepared. The formula for orange 
souffles will answer for other varieties, only the flavour and 
the style of decoration being changed. Weigh into a mixing- 
bowl 4 oz. of ground almonds, 6 oz. of icing sugar, and 1 oz. of corn flour, 
and mix all into a paste with five yolks and a little orange-flower water. 
With a spatula cream these ingredients together, and lightly stir in four 
whipped whites. Fill the small cases with this mixture, dust with icing 
sugar, lay upon each a thin piece of orange peel cut round Math -|-in. plain 
cutter, and bake in a cool oven (about 340° F.). This formula may be 
Souffles with changed if required, and the souffles made without the yolks 
Whites only, y^g follows. Mix the dry ingredients together, and add these 
to five or six whites beaten quite firm and light. 

Instead of using paper cases for the souffles, these may be baked in 
very small moulds 1 or 1;^ in. in diameter, previously lined with thin short 
paste No. 1 or 5. The confectioner will find these small moulds, of which 
a large variety are to be obtained, exceedingly useful for biscuits and other 
confections which he may be called upon to prepare. To line the moulds 
with paste, place these side by side on the board; spread on top a thin 
sheet of paste, and press this into the pans with a firm piece of dough. 
The moulds have clean-cut edges, and by passing the rolling-pin over them 
they cut through the paste and are quickly separated (see Plate, Fancy 
Dessert Biscuits, No. 9). 

Carres Cafe Biscuits 

Garris cafi (see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 3) are made in some of 
these moulds, which should be 1 in. square and a little less than \ in. 
Carr6s Cafe deep. Line with short paste No. 5, and fill with a coffee- 
Biscuits. flavoured mixture as used for almond drops, using a bag and 
|-in. tube. Lay upon the centres some thin shredded almonds, dust with 
icing sugar, and bake in an oven about 360° F. 

Viennese Batons 

Another kind of small biscuits, called Viennese batons (see Plate, Fancy 
Biscuits, No. 9), is made in small shallow boat-shaped moulds 2 in. long. 
Viennese Line with short paste No. 5, and fill with a light mixture pre- 
Batons. pared as follows. Beat eight whites firm, whisk in four yolks, 
and stir in with a spatula 5 oz. roasted ground almonds, 7 oz. sugar, 1 oz. 
flour, and a few drops pineapple essence. Bake in a steady oven at 360° F., 
and, when cold, cover with a thin coating of water icing, and sprinkle on 
Vanilla some finely chopped pistachio mixed with chocolate nonpareils. 
Boats. Vanilla boats may be prepared in the same manner by changing 

the flavour (see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 12). 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 423 

Marquises 

Place into a mixing-bowl ^ lb. sweet ground roasted almonds, 7 oz. 
castor sugar, 1^ oz. flour, 1 oz. vanilla sugar. Add sufficient whites to 
mix into a consistency as for macaroons, mix well without 

'' . . T.. Marquises, 

beating light, and stir in five firmly whipped whites. Pipe on 

papered baking sheets in small drops, and bake in a moderate oven at 

about 360° F. Transfer these biscuits from the paper, and sandwich 

together with fresh butter cream strongly flavoured with crushed pralinee 

(see p. 396). Mask with a thin coating of hot apricot jelly or liquid gum, 

and cover entirely with small shredded roasted cocoanut and pistachio. 

To keep these biscuits of a nice shape, the mixture should be handled 

lightly as soon as the whipped whites are mixed in. (See Plate, Fancy 

Biscuits, No. 7.) 

Negro Biscuits 

Another biscuit very similar to the above is called negro (see Plate, 
Fancy Biscuits, No. 10). For these prepare a very light mixture, as for 
marquises, flavoured with 2 oz. powdered cocoa, and col- r- • 

oured with a little caramel colouring. Cocoa, being of an 
oily nature, has a tendency to make the mixture soft, and it therefore 
requires careful handling, as the biscuits should have a bold appearance. 
When these run out flat during the baking, it is better to break them up 
and use the crumbs for other purposes. Sandwich the biscuits together 
with fairly stiff" warm fondant, highly flavoured with melted unsweetened 
cocoa flavoured with vanilla. Mask with hot jelly or gum, and cover with 
granulated chocolate and pistachio. The pistachio or green cocoanut should 
be placed on top of the chocolate; very little is required to Granulated 
brighten up the biscuits. A good method to follow in finishing Chocolate, 
these biscuits quickly is to mix them in small quantities with the jelly or 
gum in an ordinary mixing-bowl. Turn them about with the hand until 
coated sufficiently, and then roll them upon the chocolate. 

At this stage it is advisable to give the recipe for granulated choco- 
late, which has been referred to in some of the notes. For this purpose 
chocolate dough is required. This may be obtained by warm- ^^ orenare 
ing cakes of chocolate, or, better still, by preparing the dough Granulated 
with unsweetened cocoa, icing sugar, and cocoa butter. To °'^° ^*^' 
prepare the dough, warm over the bain-marie 8 oz. unsweetened block 
cocoa and 3 oz. cocoa butter to a temperature not exceeding 90° F., and 
stir in sufficient warm icing sugar to make a chocolate dough firmer than 
for medallions. Knead thoroughly with the hand, and store away in a 
warm cupboard for twelve hours. To granulate or shred the chocolate 
dough, pass it through a wire sieve as used for sifting flour. Turn the 
sieve upside down on the slab, and press small pieces of the dough through 
the wires of the sieve until all has passed through. To each small piece of 
dough, before using, work in a few drops of stock syrup with the fingeivs. 



424 BISCUITS 

This will cause the chocolate to become firmer. It should at once be passed 
through the sieve. Without the syrup the dough would be too soft for the 
purpose required; on the other hand, if this is permitted to cool more than 
is necessary, it will pass through in a powder. Chocolate prepared in this 
manner is very useful for decorating various small fancies and gateaux. 
With a fine sieve remove any chocolate dust the mixture may contain, and 
store in an air-tight canister in a cool place. 

CocoANUT Dessert Biscuits 

To make small cocoanut dessert biscuits (see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, 

No. 8), weigh into a raixing-bowl 1 lb. castor sugar; mix in eight whites, 

Cocoanut ^^'^ ^^^^ ^° ^ temperature of 90° F. in the hain-niarie. While 

Dessert warming these ingredients, keep stirring with a wooden spoon 

iscuits. ^^ spatula. Mix in enough fine desiccated cocoanut to make a 

stiff dough, and lay out in small pieces upon greased baking sheets covered 

with flour. Shape with the fingers into the form of a pyramid about 1^ in. 

high. Allow to lie in the rack until the next day; then bake for a few 

minutes in a hot oven (about 450° F.). These should remain in the oven 

until the points are tinted a dark brown. 

Chocolate Almond Batons 

Another very nice biscuit, named chocolate alrtiond batons, is made in 
small boat-shaped moulds lined with No. 5 short paste. Weigh into a 
Chocolat iTfiixing-pan 8 oz. thin shredded almonds, 10 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. 
Almond vanilla sugar, and 2 oz. cocoa powder. Mix these ingredients 
atons. together with enough egg whites to form a soft paste, and fill 
each paste-lined mould. Dust with icing sugar, bake in a moderate oven 
(about 360° F.), and dust over with icing sugar and cocoa mixed, using a 
fine dredger or hair sieve. 

Vanilla Patience Biscuits 

For vanilla Patience biscuits (see Plate, Fancy Biscuits, No. 1) weigh 
into a mixing-bowl 1\ lb. icing sugar; add ten whites, and with a wooden 
Vanilla spoon or spatula beat the whole well to make the mixture fairly 
Patience light. Stir in 12 oz. Hungarian flour and 2 oz. vanilla sugar. 
Biscuits. \Yith a bag and a J-in. plain tube lay the mixture in drops or 
fingers on prepared baking sheets. Allow to remain until next day, then 
bake in an oven at about 360° F. A very smooth surface should be on the 
bottom as well as on the tops of these biscuits. The former is obtained by 
baking them upon baking sheets covered with beeswax. Clarified fat and 
Waxine ^OMY may be used, but the wax is better if it is of good quality. 
Baking To wax the trays, make them hot in the oven, rub on the wax. 
Sheets. ^^^ smooth over with thin paper. With the above recipe many 
sorts of biscuits may be prepared by changing the flavour and colour. 



MACAROONS AND ALMOND BISCUITS 425 

Baitenberg Drops 

For Battenberg drops prepare a mixture as for almond drops, flavour 
with noyau, and lay out upon papered trays in small drops. Place a 
small round cherry on the centre of each; then cover v^^ith Battenberg 
granulated sugar and bake in an oven about 370° F. Transfer Drops, 
from the paper and sandwich together with warm pink fondant flavoured 
with noyau, or with hot apricot jelly, into which has been mixed some 
finely chopped preserved pineapple. 

Several of the recipes given for small biscuits will answer admirably 
for penny goods, if the pieces are made larger. 

Langues de Chat 

In France a very popular biscuit is the Langue de Chat (cat's tongue). 
The best quality is made with cream and flavoured with vanilla sugar. 
Those of inferior quality are made by using fresh butter in place Langues 
of the cream. These biscuits quickly soften when exposed to the ^^ ^^^*- 
air, and to prevent this they should be stored in air-tight tins. The first 
recipe for these biscuits is as follows. Weigh into a pan 2 lb. fine castor 
suo-ar, 2 lb. Hungarian flour, and 2 oz. vanilla sugar. Mix into a medium 
stifle paste with 1 pt. of cream and about | pt. fresh milk. The paste 
should be of such consistency as will mix readily with whipped whites. 
Beat up firm eighteen large egg whites, and with a spatula mix these 
with the paste. With forcing-bag and ^-in. plain tube lay the paste upon 
waxed baking sheets about 3 in. long. Bake in a moderate oven (about 
380° F.), and remove the biscuits with a broad palette knife as soon as the 
borders are slightly tinted. Have the biscuits a uniform colour, and draw 
the baking sheets occasionally to the mouth of the oven to ensure this. At 
the same time, as these biscuits are required thin, the ends should be nicely 
rounded. Baking in too hot an oven will cause these to spread more than 
is required. 

No. 2 recipe is as follows. Weigh into a mixing-bowl 1 lb. fresh butter 
and 1 lb. very fine castor sugar. Cream these together, and, Langues de 
a little at a time, mix in ^ pt. whites. Flavour with 2 oz. ^^^^' ^°- ^' 
vanilla sugar or a few drops of essence, and mix in without overworking 
1 lb. 2 oz. Hungarian flour. Finish off" as directed for recipe No. 1. 

Vanilla Cream Drops 

Vanilla cream drops may be made from either of the preceding two 
recipes. These are laid out round, about 1 in. in diameter. . 

They are generally served with ices, are very light, and eat Cream Drops, 
rich. 

COPEAUX 

Another variety of biscuits served occasionally with ices is known as 
copeaux, or shavings. They are baked upon waxed or greased baking 
sheets in a solid oven at about 450° F. A caramel roller, as shown in 



426 BISCUITS 

the illustration (fig. 69), is used for rolling over the biscuits to mark 
them, and while hot these are twisted around a lead pencil or a piece of 
round wood about I in. in diameter. The best of these biscuits 
are made with ground almonds, and to obtain a smooth soft 
paste, with plenty of body, the dough should be prepared with mortal 
and pestle. Prepare the copeaux as follows. Weigh down 8 oz. ground 
almonds and 8 oz. fine castor sugar; flavour with orange -flower water, 




Fig. 69.— Caramel Roller 

and mix all into a soft paste with about three large whites of egg. With 
bag and plain ^-in. tube lay half of the paste out in long bands about 5 in. 
in length. Using the same bag and tube, pipe the remainder of the paste 
in double lines, joining at the ends, and 1| in. wide. Bake in a solid oven 
at 450° F. to colour the border of the biscuits, pass the caramel roller over 
Twisting them, and quickly shape the biscuits while hot. This shaping is 
Shavings, done by holding the piece of stick in the left hand, folding the 
biscuit over the stick with the right hand, and then pressing tight and 
quickly removing, ready for curling the remainder. Some little practice 
is necessary before one can become expert in curling these biscuits quickly, 
owing to their being hot and quickly hardening. 

The second recipe gives a cheaper biscuit, and one which does not dry 
so (][uickly. Weigh down 8 oz. castor sugar, 8 oz. Hungarian flour, 2 oz. 
Cheaper vanilla sugar, and 4 oz. ground almonds. Mix all together by 
Copeaux. adding gradually two eggs, one tablespoonful of cream, and a 
little milk. Have the paste soft to flow freely. Lay out with a very small 
tube, and bake quickly. The shavings may also be made with the second 
recipe given for langue de chat, if they are not dried in a cold oven, in 
which case they would be set too hard to curl. 

TUILES 

Another very fine Continental biscuit is that known as tuiles. These 
may be made small to sell by weight or at so much each. Proceed as 
_ . follows. Mix together in a mixing-bowl 9 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. 

flour, 10 oz. thin filleted almonds, one egg, three whites, and a few 
drops essence of vanilla. Prepare a baking sheet carefully buttered and 
floured; place the mixture on in small heaps, 3 in. apart; level over with 
the back of a fork; dust with icing sugar, and bake at a moderate tem- 
perature (about 370° F.). Bake to a golden colour, and remove while hot 
with a broad palette knife. Curl the biscuits over a rolling-pin. 








o 

z 

Q 
Z 

o 

u 
z 

O 



MARZIPAN AND ITS USES . 427 

CHAPTER LXXVII 

MAEZIPAN AND ITS USES 

The word marzipan or marchpane is derived from Latin roots, and 
probably meant originally bread of Mars. Marzipan is not an invention 
of late years. Legend says that it originated at the time origin and 
of the Thirty Years' War. Liibeek, a free town in Germany, History of 
was besieged, and when all the food in the town had been used, arzipan. 
except a quantity of almonds and sugar, these were powdered and made 
into bread for the feeding of the population. 

Some confectioners endeavour to make marzipan with ground almonds, 
but only with very disappointing results. It is impossible to make a good 
marzipan with almonds ground alone in the form of meal. If Machinery 
large quantities are wanted, it is advisable to go to the expense or utensils 
of having a plant of machinery put up, say an almond-blanch- ecessary. 
ing machine (see Plate), an almond-grinding machine with granite rollers 
(see Plate), and a steam boiler for boiling the mixture. When using the 
machine for grinding the almonds, it is advisable to chop them before 
rolling; and if a fine marzipan paste is required, it is essential to have 
the almonds passed through the rollers several times, setting the rollers 
closer each time. Not everybody, however, can afford the space for or 
expense of putting in machinery. Ready-made marzipan paste can be 
bought from wholesale houses, or can be made in a small way by using 
a marble mortar with a boxwood pestle, a shallow mixing- bowl, and a 
spatula. 

Take 4}^ lb. of almonds of good quality, pick out all the broken bits of 
hard shell, rub them on a sack or cloth and sift off all the dust, put them 
into the bowl, and pour boiling water over till covered, preparing 
Stir round and cover over with a sack or cloth for about *^* Almonds, 
ten minutes, strain off the hot water, and pour cold water over. Then 
begin to blanch the almonds in the usual way; and as soon as they are 
blanched put them back into fresh cold water, and wash several times. 
This method of handling the almonds is necessary if a white and clean- 
looking marzipan paste is required. Keep the blanched almonds in cold 
water for at least twelve hours before proceeding to mash. Take out as 
many at a time as the mortar holds, leaving sufficient room to pound 
them to a fine pulp. No sugar must be added in the pounding Founding 
process, or the paste will not become fine and smooth enough. Almonds. 
Neither is an addition of water or white of eggs required, as the almonds 
have soaked in just as much water as is required for the pounding and 
for preventing them from becoming oily during the process, which of 
course would make them useless for the purpose. Care has to be taken 
that the almonds are properly mashed or pounded to a fine pulp. By 
rubbing a little of the mixture between the thumb and finger, it can be 



428 SPECIAL GOODS 

seen whether there are still little bits of almonds in it, in which case the 
pounding must be continued. If quite fine and smooth, however, scrape 
the almond pulp into the mixing-bowl, take the next lot of almonds out 
of the water, and pound as before. 

After all the 4>{ lb. of almonds are turned into a fine pulp, weigh and 
add 3 lb. of pulverized or icing sugar; mix it, and bring the bowl with 
Boiling the its contents on to a slow fire on the stove. To prevent the 
Marzipan, mixture from burning to the bottom, stir it with a spatula 
until it comes to the boil and reaches the proper consistency. The paste 
is ready when the mixture does not cling to the bowl. Another way to 
Sign of try it is as follows. Dip the finger into the mixture; if it does 
Readiness, j^ot cling or stick to the finger, the mixture is ready; but if it 
does cling, the proper consistency has not arrived, and the mixture requires 
a further stirring over the fire until sufficiently dry. Then take the bowl 
from the fire, swing it several times to form a ball, and turn it out on a 
Keeping clean and sugar-dusted slab. When cold, put away in a vessel. 
Marzipan, preferably air-tight, and keep in a cool, dry place for further use. 
When preparing for use, sugar or flavour can be added as desired. 

Uses of Marzipan 

Properly made marzipan should be as smooth and plastic as potters' 
clay. Marzipan has a very wide field of usefulness. On account of its 
good flavour and texture, it is employed with advantage in cake and 
Marzipan biscuit mixtures. For cakes, use 2 to 3 oz. slightly bitter mar- 
in Cakes, zipan to 1 lb. mixing, softened with 2 eggs added to the mixture 
when they are well beaten up. For biscuits of the macaroon class (see 
Marzipan Plate, Fancy Dessert Biscuits), take 1|- lb. marzipan, 1| lb. 
Macaroons, sugar, 2 oz. ground rice, and about 6 whites of eggs. Add 
the whites gradually to the marzipan, and soften until properly smooth; 
then add the sugar, and lastly the ground rice. Lay out on wafer paper, 
and bake in a cool oven. 

Rout biscuits may be made with yolks. Take 1 lb. marzipan, h lb. 
sugar, and 3 to 4 yolks of eggs. Mix well till smooth; then roll out and 
Marzipan Heavy shape with a cutter and the hand. Dry, bake, and deco- 
Rout Biscuits. rate. Rout biscuits may also be made with whites, thus. 
Use 1 lb. marzipan, add f lb. sugar, and about 3 to 4 whites of eggs. Put 
Marzipan Light this mixture in a savoy bag with a star tube, and pipe 
Rout Biscuits. various shapes; then dry, bake, and decorate. (See Plates, 
Fancy Biscuits, and Fancy Dessert Biscuits.) 

The following is a recipe for marzipan ice custard. Take f lb. mar- 
zipan, and soften with 12 yolks in a basin. Place 1 qt. milk — cream, or 
Marzipan half milk and half cream — with 4 oz. sugar and 1 to 2 vanilla 
Ice Custard, beans on the fire to boil. When it is boiling, add the marzipan 
and yolk mixture, and stir constantly till it becomes thick; but take care 
not to boil or burn the mixture. When cold, freeze in the usual way. 

For blancmanges, take f lb. marzipan and soften with milk, taken 



1 




ALMOND-FILLETING MACHINE 




ALMOND SIFTING AND SEPARATING MACHINE 



MARZIPAN AND ITS USES 429 

from the quart of milk (cream, or half milk and half cream), which is the 
total quantity required. Then add 3 oz. sugar, 1 or 2 vanilla Marzipan 
beans, and the remainder of the milk. Bring this to the boil; Blancmange, 
then take it from the fire and add 1| oz. dissolved gelatine, and strain 
through a sieve into a mould. Put in a cold place or on ice to set. The 
cream may also be flavoured with 1| oz. melted cocoa, which is done by 
putting the cocoa in a warm place and melting it before it is stirred in. 
The cocoa and vanilla may be left out, and a drop of otto of roses and 
colour added until it becomes slightly red. 

For ice wafers, take 3 oz. marzipan, 6 oz. sugar, and 8 whites of eggs 
slightly whipped. Smooth the marzipan with the whites to a soft mixture; 
then add IJ oz. flour, and stir all well together. Spread with Marzipan 
a palette knife very thin, like a sheet of paper, on a waxed ^^^ Wafers, 
or greased and flour-dusted tin. Bake in a very hot oven. When baked, 
cut in pieces of 2i by 1| in., and lay lengthways while hot on a rolling- 
pin to shape the wafers half round. This has to be done quickly, as the 
baked paste gets hard and crisp when cold, and will not bend. They can, 
however, be made pliable again by putting them back in the oven for 
about two minutes. These wafers must be kept dry. They are served 
with ices. 

For Congress tartlets, take 1 lb. marzipan, 2 lb. sugar, 2 oz. ground rice, 
and 11 or 12 eggs according to size. Work the whites gradually j^ 
into the marzipan till it is quite smooth and soft without being Congress 
lumpy. Line some patty pans with pufF paste, and place a little Tartlets, 
raspberry jam in each; then fill with the marzipan paste prepared as 
described. Bake in a cool oven. 

For frangipane or cheese cakes, take 1| lb. marzipan, ^ lb. sugar, | lb. 
butter, and about 9 eggs. Soften the marzipan with the Marzipan 
eggs; then beat up the sugar with the butter, and mix all Cheese Cakes, 
together. Flavour with essence of vanilla. This is filled into pastry 
tartlets either before or after baking. 

For sandwiching purposes soften ^ lb. marzipan Marzipan and Butter 

with 2 whites of eggs; add butter cream, and flavour Cream Centres in 

, J. ,. '^^ Fancy Pastry, 

at discretion. 

For coveHng gdteaux and fancies, to 1 lb. marzipan take 
I lb. icing sugar. Colour and flavour are optional. 

For covering wedding cakes, to 1 lb, marzipan add 6 to For Wedding 
8 yolks, J lb. ground almonds, and 1 lb. pulverized or castor Cakes, 
sugar. 

Marzipan coloured and flavoured, rolled out, and cut in designs and 
shaped makes nice varieties of sweetmeats. All marzipan Marzipan Sweet- 
sweetmeats should be crystallized to keep them in good meats and 
condition and flavour, and the crystallizing improves and Chocolates, 
brightens the appearance very much. 

For marzipan cakes roll out, say, 1 lb. of marzipan \ in. thick, cut with 

a 6-in. round or heart-shaped cutter, lay a strip of pink-coloured marzipan 
Vol. I. 55 



430 SPECIAL GOODS 

around the edge, and notch with a pair of pincers. Lay another strip 
of uncoloured marzipan around, then wash the whole over 
with thin white of egg, and place for a short time (one or 
two minutes) in a very hot oven to give the notched edge a slightly brown 
bloom. Wash over with dissolved gum arabic, and decorate the centre 
with marzipan fruit, flowers, a moulded figure, or with a filling of flavoured 
cream or custard. 

Marzipan fancies are made by rolling out small bits of marzipan into 

lengths of, say, 3 in., shaped in rings, twists, crescents, &c. Dry these, and 

„ . place for a minute in a hot oven to give them bloom; 

then w^ash over with dissolved gum arabic, and decorate 

with royal icing piping. 

For marzipan flowers (see Plate, Marzipan Flowers) take a small 
quantity of marzipan and work into it a little icing sugar, say to the 
., ,^. ^, amount of one -half the marzipan. For white flowers 

Moulding Flowers. , . . • i i ■ / • j. p ^ j 

no colourmg is required, but tor a variety or coloured 
flowers add suitable colourings to the marzipan. The working or making 
of the flowers is done as follows. Roll out a small quantity of marzipan 
thin, and cut out the leaves with a leaf -cutter. Place one leaf in the left 
Modelling hand, and with the modelling tool press a sharp edge to the 
Leaves. leai. Bend the sharp edge in two or three places outward, 
and press it on a bit of marzipan (as big as a filbert nut). This forms 
the centre of a rose. Take another of the cut-out leaves, and do like- 
Building wise, until enough leaves are got around to give the appearance 
up Roses. q£ a rose. Other flowers are made in the same way. Leaves 
and stalks should be made from marzipan instead of from the canvas 
so often used. Some flowers require to be painted after being madej 
for instance, the dark-red rose, which is painted with a 
brush and dry carmine. The shading of the centre on 
a pansy also requires the painting brush. Of course only vegetable 
colours should be used. 

Fruit and vegetables are shaped by the hands by rolling a piece of 
Modelling marzipan between the palms of the hands to give it the form 
Fruits and of the object to be imitated; then with the help of the model- 
Vegetables. Ying tool the desired appearance is obtained. Strawberries, 
walnuts, or the like are best made with moulds. The colouring and glazing 
Glazing are done, when the paste is dry, by painting on the desired 
Fruits, &c. shade with a brush. For glazing the fruit do not use varnish, 
but a thin solution of gum arabic does not spoil the taste of the marzipan. 
Dissolving Gum arabic can be dissolved for all glazing purposes in cold 
Gum Arabic, water. (See Plate, Moulded Marzipan Fruits.) 



MAKZIPAN AND ITS USES 



431 




Fig. 70.— Modelliug Tools 



432 SPECIAL GOODS 

CHAPTER LXXVIII 

FRUIT TARTS 

Closed Fruit Tarts 

When such fruits as gooseberries, raspberries, red currants, plums, and 
apples are in season, closed fruit tarts sell very well, and to some extent 
stay the rush of customers to the fruit shops. The most convenient way 
of making these tarts is to use the shapes in which custards are generally 
baked. These are narrow at the bottom and wide at the top, at which they 
measure for penny sizes about 3| in. in diameter. The paste is made firm, 
and consists of 8 lb. flour (soft), 2 lb. lard, 1 lb. sugar, I oz. soda, and ^ oz. 
cream of tartar. The paste should lie an hour or two before cutting out. 
It is best rolled on a biscuit brake to about ^ in. thick. The bottoms to line 
the tins are cut with a crimp-edged cutter about 4 J- in. in diameter, and 
must then be well thumbed to the top of the tins, as otherwise the sugar 
will boil over and make the tarts stick. The tins should be greased. One 
pound of fruit is sufficient to fill one dozen tarts of the penny size. 

If the fruit is gooseberries, or berries of any sort, it only requires pick- 
ing. Apples are chopped into small pieces after being pared and cored. A 
small quantity of soft sugar is placed on top of the fruit and then splashed 
with water. About 1 lb. of sugar is enough for fourteen tarts, but much 
depends on the acidity of the fruit used. The tops are cut out about the 
same thickness, but only 3| in. in diameter, with a crimp cutter. These are 
thumbed well to the other paste, so that the two edges are together. A 
small hole is made in the top, a little castor sugar is sprinkled on it, and 
then it is splashed with water and baked in a hot oven. The tarts 
must be taken from the tins at once; otherwise they are liable to stick. 
They are baked as soon as the sugar begins to boil, so that the paste should 
not be so thick as to make it difficult to cook. They should have a glazed 
appearance when done, and to this end they may be washed over with 
syrup after baking. 

Open Fruit Tarts 

In most Continental confectioners' shops, no matter at what time of the 
year one may visit them, there is to be seen a good variety of large and 
Large Open small open fruit tarts. They make a bright assortment for 
Tarts. the shop window, and the fruits show clearly through the 

bright jelly with which they are covered. These, mostly retailed from 6d. 
to 2s. each, are made in hoops ranging from 6 to 8 in. in diameter, and 
f to 1 in. deep. 

One of the most popular is the apple tart. For this tart, line the hoops 

with sweet short paste (No. 2), thumb up the sides, and notch 

the border with a pair of paste nippers (fig. 71). Spread a thin 

layer of apple jam over the bottom, and on this lay a circle of thin, half- 




ALMOND SLICING, GRATING, AND BREAKING MACHINE 




ALMOND-SPLITTING MACHINE FOR POWER 




FRUIT TARTS 433 

moon-shaped pieces of apple. These are to be laid so that each piece over- 
laps a neighbouring one. Fill in the centre with small pieces of apple, and 
bake in a hot oven (about 420"^ F.). Spread over the fruit a thin layer of 

clear apricot jelly, which has 
been boiled to the thread degree. 
In preparing apricot and 
peach tarts with tinned or 
bottled fruits, these Apricot and 
^. _, „ , ^.. should be partly Peach Tart. 

Fig. "1.— Paste INippers _ i^ J 

dried on a cloth before use. 
Slightly colour the centre of each tart with carmine, rubbed on with the 
linger; bake, and finish off with clear jelly. 

In using fresh apricots, which may be had at moderate prices at certain 
times of the year, these should be split in halves and boiled in stock syrup 
until soft. Line the hoops with paste, notch the border as presh 
before, but bake with a thin paper lining filled with rice. Apricot Tart. 
Bake in a hot oven, and when cold remove the paper and rice, to use 
again when required. Lay the already cooked apricots on the paste, and 
cover with apricot jelly made with pulp, or with the syrup in which the 
fruit has been cooked. Remove the kernels from the apricot stones and 
lay some of these on top of the jelly. 

During the strawberry season, when this fruit can be got cheap, 
strawberry tarts or tourtes may be prepared by baking the paste first, 
then laying in the fresh fruit and masking over with clear strawberry 
hot jelly. In some districts there is quite a run on small straw- Tarts, 
berry tarts. The paste is baked in small sharp-edged boat-shaped moulds, 
and filled with whipped cream and fresh strawberries after baking, or in 
larger round moulds which are filled with only the fruit and jelly. While 
fresh these eat nice and short. The cases made with short paste may be 
stocked and finished off" as required. 

When fresh fruit cannot be obtained, or when its use is inconvenient, 
bottled fruits supply an excellent substitute. 

For small pineapple tarts cut the fruit in small pieces, and boil for {i 
few moments with the juice in which they were preserved and a little lump 
sugar. Prepare the short paste cases as described, and bake with pineapple 
small wood blocks in. When done, remove the blocks and lay in Tarts, 
the fruit; cover with clear apricot jelly. A special jelly may be made for 
this purpose by adding some melted gelatine to the syrup in which the 
fruit has been boiled. 

With a good variety of small fancy-shaped moulds very choice-look- 
ing tartlets may be made with bright -coloured jam, and covered with 
jelly or thin water icing. Line some small oval moulds Masked 
with paste, half-fill with clear strawberry jam, bake in a Ja*" Tarts, 
hot oven, and when done cover with clear jelly. In the centre of the 
jelly place a split pistachio nut, or a few pieces of the same chopped very 
fine. 



434 SPECIAL GOODS 

Tartlets made with rea or white bottled currants, and finished with 
Small Fancy J^Hy and pistacliio nuts, make a nice assortment to mix with 
Fruit Tarts, the others. 

For Norman tarts line small square pans with paste, half -fill with 

apple jam, and bake in a hot oven. Remove from the pans when cold, and 

„ cover the iam with a thin coatine; of fondant or water icinsr 

Norman j/arts> 

coloured pale-green and flavoured with maraschino. Pipe 

a star of whipped cream in the centre of each. 

For Marengo tarts line some small oval moulds with paste, cut out 

with a crimp cutter; thumb up at the sides, and half-fill with a mixture 

^ made with apple iam and sultanas, and flavoured with rum. 

Marengo Tarts, t^ , . ^ , .,i • • ,i i , 

rJake m a hot oven, cover with apricot jelly, and mask over 

with pink fondant. The covering of fondant or water icing used for these 

small goods should be thin, and yet be of such consistency and temperature 

as to enable it to set firm quickly. 

On account of the number of operations through which each of those 

small tarts has to pass before it is finished, they must be made very 

small if they have to be sold at a penny each. Their smallness, however, 

is of advantage in that it increases their daintiness, and causes them merely 

to whet the appetite without satisfying it. 



CHAPTER LXXIX 

gIteaux 

Tricolour Gateau 



Take a round of very light Genoese paste, and cut it into two layers. 
Moisten them well with maraschino, and sandwich together with light 
butter cream flavoured with pralinee. Mask over with 
nco our eau. g^p^.j^Q^ jelly, and then with white fondant. This gateau 
is decorated (see Plate, Types of Dessert Gateaux, No. 5) with long 
strips of pink and chocolate marzipan paste and silver dragees. The 
marzipan, when rolled out and ready for cutting into strips, is marked 
on the top by rolling over it a brass roller as used for caramels (fig. 69). 

Sunflower Gateau 

Cut a round piece of Genoese paste into three layers, and sandwich 
these together with strawberry cream. Cover with apricot jelly, and mask 
over the top and sides with a rich chocolate fondant 
un ower a eau. £g^yQ^j.g(j \f\t\\ vanilla. Mark a ring in the centre with 
a round 2-in. plain cutter, and pipe chocolate butter cream inside the centre 
of the ring with a paper bag and small star tube. Cover this over with 
granulated chocolate or small chocolate nonpareils. With a small cutlet- 



GATEAUX 435 

cutter cut out some thin pieces of yellow marzipan paste, and place these 
around the outer ring of butter cream, to form the petals of the sunflower 
as shown in the illustration (see Plate, Types of Dessert Gateaux, No. 7). 

AvoNDALE Gateau 

Take a thin round of light Genoese paste and split it into two pieces. 

Cover these with apple jelly, and sandwich them together by placing 

between them a round of franmpane cake. Cover the . ^ , ^_ 

. -Ill -1 Avondale Gateau, 

top and sides with apricot jelly; then cover the sides 

with roasted chopped almonds. Pipe thin lines on the top f in. apart, 

forming a series of diamond-shaped spaces. Fill the first and each alternate 

space between the lines with chocolate fondant, and the others with yellow 

fondant. Pipe a small curl of sugar at the point of each diamond, and fill 

these with clear red jelly. Place on top of the chocolate fondant half of 

a small grilled almond, and a split pistachio nut on the yellow fondant. 

With a small brush glaze the nuts with a little warm gum arable. (See 

Plate, Dessert Gateaux, No. 6.) 

Erin GIteau 

Split a round piece of No. 1 gateau paste into three layers, and sand- 
wich together with two layers of whipped cream, flavoured with rose water 
and kirsch, and coloured pale green. Pipe the form of a star 
on top with royal icing, so that the points of the star just 
reach the border of the cake; fill in the spaces with clear red apricot pulp. 
Within the star pipe a small harp in white, decorated with green icing to 
represent the leaves of the shamrock; fill the six vacant spaces, piped 
three with yellow fondant and decorated with pieces of an- Shamrocks, 
gelica, the remainder with chocolate fondant and piped with light scroll. 
Cover the sides with jelly and roasted filleted almonds (see Plate, Types of 
Dessert Gateaux, No. 8). 

Etoile GIteau 

Prepare a cake with cream as for Erin gateau. Mask all over with 
apricot jelly. With white icing pipe on a six-pointed star, and by thin 
lines across divide it into twelve divisions. Fill as shown in , 
the illustration on the Plate, Types of Dessert GIteaux, 
No. 9, three with red jelly, three with yellow fondant, and the remainder 
with chocolate. Cover the sides with chopped almonds, and further decorate 
the top with fruit and silver dragees. 

GIteau Souvaroff 

Split a round piece of light gateau paste into three layers. Mix some 
chopped pineapple and preserved cherries with apricot jelly and maraschino. 
Place this mixture in layers between the pieces of cake, sand- Gateau 
wich these together, and mask the top and sides with apricot Souvaroff. 
jelly. Colour some fondant a light olive green, and flavour with rose water. 



436 



SPECIAL GOODS 




Fig. 72.— Template for Small Cones 



Mask the cake over with this, 
and when evenly covered stand 
it for a few seconds in the dry- 
ing oven. Bake on a waxed 
baking sheet some small round 
pieces of copeaux or langue de 
chat paste, about 2 in. in diam- 
eter, and while still warm twist 
each of these round so as to form 
small cones (fig. 72). About nine 
cones in all will be required to 
cover the top of the gateau. 
Place these on the cake with all 
the points toward the centre, 
and fill half of them with rich 
vanilla, and the other with straw- 
berry cream lightly coloured. 
The cream should show at the 
mouth of each cone, and on the 
white a few pieces of chopped 
pistachio should be sprinkled, 
while a silver dragee should be 
placed on the pink cream. 
Finish by adding a few clear 
piped stars of butter cream 



around the border. (See Plate, Dessert GIteaux, No. 1.) 



GiTEAu Marquise 

Prepare this gateau as for Gateau Souvaroff. When the fondant is 
quite dry, decorate with preserved fruits previously soaked in warm syrup. 
Gateau -A. great variety of designs may be produced with these fruits. 
Marquise, 'j'jjg outside of pink or white pears may be cut and folded up to 
represent roses, small bright cherries covered with thin strips of angelica 
representing the rosebuds, &c. The fruit should not be cut thick. Care 
Designs with and taste have to be exercised in arranging the colours. 

Preserved Fruits. Here and there small diamond -shaped pieces of bright 
angelica may be placed. When the design is finished, brush over the fruit 
lightly with warm gum arabic. (See Plate, Saleable GIteaux, No. 4.) 



Floral Gateau 

It is better to make this gateau during the cold weather, so that the 
butter cream used for decoration may keep firm and shapely. Prepare 
and ice the cake over as for Gateau Souvaroff; flavour the 
fondant strongly with maraschino. Pipe six small pink roses 
with white and pink butter cream (made with fresh butter and a little 



Floral Gateau. 



GATEAUX 437 

stock syrup), and lay these on the left-hand side of the top of the cake, 
so as to form a spray of roses. Fix six small pieces of angelica to 
represent rose stalks, and a few diamond pieces of angelica for the leaves. 
On the opposite side pipe the name in green fondant and outline with 
pale-pink icing. 

Brunswick Gateau 

Line some shallow 5|-in. shortbread hoops with rich short paste. 
Spread some apple jelly on the bottom of each, and three-quarters fill 
with the following mixture, made up and mixed as for an Brunswick 
ordinary cake mixture: 1 lb. butter, ^ lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. Gateau, 
ground almonds, 1 lb. cake crumbs, 10 eggs, | gill of rose water. Cut some 
strips of short paste, as used for Congress or macaroon tarts, ^ in. wide. 
Stretch one strip of this paste across the centre of the Almond Cream 
gateau from one side to the othei; then lay two strings Filling, 
on either side of this at equal distances apart. Turn the hoop around half- 
way, and lay on five more strips of paste, so as to divide the centre of the 
cake into diamond-shaped spaces, as shown on the tricolour gateau. Bake 
at a steady temperature, about 360° R, and when cold mask the top over 
with clear apricot jelly, spread on sparingly, and in the centres of the open 
spaces place small diamond-shaped pieces of preserved pineapple. 

Almond GIteau 

Prepare as for Brunswick gateau, only instead of stretching strips of 
paste across the top of the almond cream, lay on thin split 
almonds, and when the cake is baked brush over the top 
with water icing. Sprinkle finely chopped grilled almonds on top of the 
icing. 

Madeleine Gateau 

Line a shortbread hoop with rich short crust, strongly flavoured with 
coffee essence. Spread a thin layer of honey on the bottom, and half-fill 
with cream filling as for Brunswick gateau, but flavour it Madeleine 
strongly with chocolate powder. Wet the edges of the short Gateau, 
crust with a little water, and cover the top with a thin layer of puff-paste 
trimmings. Spread a thin layer of royal icing, without acid, on the cake, 
and cover this well with finely chopped almonds. Bake at a temperature 
of about 350° F. Leave the oven door partly open to prevent the top 
from taking much colour. When covering these cakes with pufF paste 
allow them to lie twenty minutes before baking, so that the paste may 
recover from the rolling. 

St. Denis Gateau 

Prepare and line some shortbread hoops with rich short paste. Spread 
a thin layer of orange marmalade on the bottom of each, and sprinkle 
chopped cherries over this. Half- fill each case with almond st. Denis 
filling as used for Brunswick gateau, but colour it pink and Gateau, 
flavour strawberry. Put a layer of puff" paste on top, and cover with a 

Vol. I. 58 



438 SPECIAL GOODS 

thin layer of pink royal icing. Decorate with a few pieces of preserved 
cherries and angelica, and bake in a steady oven. 

Snow GIteau 

Line a shortbread hoop with short paste. Spread some lemon marmalade 
on the bottom, and almost fill with almond-cream filling as above. Spread 
Snow this over quite smooth, and cover well with thin shredded almonds. 
Gdteau. When baked and cold, dust over with vanilla sugar. Another way 
of preparing and finishing this cake is to bake it without the shredded 
almonds, and then mask over the top with Italian meringue. Dry it for 
a few seconds in the drying oven, and then ice with white fondant flavoured 
with maraschino. 

Hamburg Gateau 

Prepare and line a shortbread hoop with German paste. Spread a 
little honey on the bottom, and almost fill to the top with the mixture as 
Hamburg used for almond drops and fingers (p. 417). Cover with shredded 
Gateau. almonds, and when baked dust over lightly with icing sugar and 
chocolate powder. 

MoussELiNE Gateau 

This gateau is prepared and baked like the Hamburg. Mix equal quan- 
tities of almonds and icing sugar into a stifi" paste with whites of eggs, and 
Mousseline spread a thin layer of this on the top of the newly-baked cake. 
Gateau. Lightly dust with icing sugar, and re-bake to a light golden 
colour. Finish when baked the second time by placing here and there on 
the cake a few spots of red jelly and some chopped pistachio nuts. Another 
method of finishing this gateau is to brush the top over with water icing, 
and sprinkle over it granulated chocolate and chopped pistachio nuts after 
it has been baked the first time. These gateaux, made in shortbread 
hoops, keep well, remaining moist for several days. 

Shamrock Gateau 

For this gateau (see Plate, Saleable GIteaux, No. 2) take a triangular 
piece of No. 4 gateau paste, having the three sides of equal length. Split 
Shamrock i^to two layers, splash with maraschino, and sandwich together 
Gateau. with vanilla cream. With a sharp knife cut off" the three sharp 
points of the gateau, leaving sloping points and rounded edges. Spread 
apricot jam on the top, and press above this a thick layer of paste, con- 
sisting of chopped cherries and clean cake crumbs, flavoured with maras- 
chino, so that the ultimate shape is rounded at the edges. Cover all over 
with apricot jelly, then mask with light olive-green fondant flavoured with 
Piped or maraschino, and dry for a few seconds in a drying oven. 

Moulded Harp, -jij^^ decoration consists of a small harp in the centre, piped 
with royal icing or moulded with marzipan paste. At each corner a spray 
of shamrock, made from small round pieces of angelica, is neatly placed; - 



GlTEAUX 439 

then light scrolls are piped around each side, relieved here and there with 
silver dragees. 

Nougat Gateaux 

Cut a round of No. 1 gateau paste into three layers, and sandwich these 
together with whipped cream flavoured with hazel-nut paste, made from 
roasted hazel nuts in the same way as pralinee paste is made Nougat 
from almonds (see p. 396). Cover the paste with apricot Gateau, No. i. 
jelly, and ice with coffee fondant. Decorate the top with small round 
pieces of nougat, rolled out thin, and cut out with a round plain cutter 
about 1 in. in diameter. The pieces of nougat should be laid on the 
border of the cake, slightly overlapping one another. Place a bright 
cherry on the centre, and around this six crescent-shaped pieces of nougat, 
cut out with a l|-in. plain cutter. 

Prepare and spread between three layers of round gateau paste some 
hazel-nut Italian cream, consisting of hazel-nut paste mixed Nougat 
with Italian meringue. Mask over the top and sides with the Gateau, No. 2. 
same cream, and cover this with crushed nougat and chopped pistachio 
nuts. When crushing and using the nougat it is advisable 
to sift and remove the powder which may be formed. This Nougat Dust, 
powder may afterwards be used for flavouring purposes. 

Cut a round piece of gateau paste and sandwich together with Italian 
butter cream (see p. 385), flavoured with powdered nougat and vanilla 
sugar. Mask the top and sides with jelly, then with choco- Nougat 
late fondant. Prepare some nougat from filleted almonds and Gateau, No. 3. 
pistachio nuts as described later, roll this out on a clean, warm, baking sheet, 
previously rubbed over with white vaseline, and when rolled quite thin 
cut out six pieces with a plain cutlet-cutter, 2 in. in length. Lay the 
pieces of nougat on the top of the cake, forming a circle, the point of each 
piece towards the border. Finish by piping a round of apple jelly in the 
centre of the nougat. 

Prepare a round of gateau paste as for No. 3 nougat gateau, but instead 
of covering the top wdth chocolate fondant use coffee fondant well flavoured 
with vanilla. Pin out some warmed nougat as used for Nougat 
No. 3, and with a large plain cutter (same size as the gateau) Giteau, No. 4. 
cut out a very thin piece of nougat. While the nougat is warm and lying 
flat on the baking sheet, lift up one side of it and fold over lightly towards 
the centre. Lay this on the cake, and pipe in butter cream the words 
Nougat Gateau on the coffee fondant. 

Prepare a round of gateau paste, and flavour this with layers of cream, 
as for gateau No. 4. Mask the top and sides with apricot jelly; then with 
royal icing pipe a six-pointed star on top of the jelly, having Nougat 
each point touching the border of the cake. Fill the star Gateau, No. 5. 
with chocolate fondant. Write on this the name Nougat. Cover the 
sides of the cake and the vacant spaces on top with crushed nougat and 
chopped pistachio nuts. 



440 SPECIAL GOODS 

GAteau Damier 

Cut out a 5|-in. square of No. 2 gateau paste 1| in. in depth; split with 
a sharp knife into three layers, and sandwich these together again with 
Gateau apple or red -currant jelly, previously splashing the cake with 
Damier. maraschino. Mask the top and sides with clear, red apricot jelly, 
and pipe double lines of icing on top. The lines should divide the gateau 
into eight squares each way. A border with a small curl of sugar at each 
corner is piped on top, and these corner cavities should be filled with jelly. 
Cover the sides with chopped roasted almonds; fill half the squares with 
chocolate fondant and the others with yellow fondant; on twelve of the 
chocolate squares pipe a small dot of green fondant, and on another twelve 
pipe dots of pink fondant. When bright glossy fondant is used, and the 
clear jelly shows up between the double lines of icing, a neat and attractive 
gateau is made. (See Plate, Dessert Gateaux, No. 3.) 

Ambrose Gateau 

Prepare a square of gateau paste as for the previous gateau, and mask 
over with apricot jelly. Pipe on six lines of icing, three each way, so as to 
Ambrose divide the top of the cake into twelve squares of equal size. Each 
Gateau, square has to be divided diagonally into two triangles with lines 
of icing. Pipe chocolate fondant into the left-hand side of each square, and 
into the other part coffee fondant; pipe a dot of royal icing at the corner of 
each square, and on the icing place a silver dragee. Cover the sides with 
roasted shredded cocoanut. 

Gateau Cavour 

Prepare a square as for Ambrose gateau, and before sandwiching together 
with jelly soak the centre well with kirsch. Mask the sides with pulp, and 
Gateau cover with roasted almonds. Make a border with lines of boiled 
Cavour. jelly all round the top of the cake, for the purpose of sticking the 
marzipan paste and keeping it in position. Prepare two thin pieces of 
white and pink marzipan paste, and stick these together with a little syrup 
or maraschino, the white piece underneath. Lay the paste carefully on the 
top of the cake, and with a sharp knife cut part of these as shown in the 
Plate of Dessert GIteaux (No. 2). Fold the cut part over as shown, and 
fill in the centre with chocolate fondant. Pipe on the name of the gateau, 
and finish with a bright cherry at two opposite corners, and crystallized 
violets on the other corners. 

Imperial GAteau 

Prepare a square of gateau paste as for the Gateau Cavour, and stick on 
the top, as nearly in the centre as possible, fourteen very small princess 
Imperial biscuits (see p. 380) well filled with apple jelly. Mask all over 
Gateau, with clear, red apricot pulp. Cover the sides with chopped roasted 
almonds, and finish by sprinkling some chopped pistachio nuts over the 
top. (See Plate, Dessert Gateaux, No. 4.) 



TYPES OF DESSERT GATEAUX 

1. Giteau Souvaroff. 

2. Giteau Cavour. 

3. Giteau Damier. 

4. Imperial Gateau. 

5. Tricoloured Gateau. 

6. Avondale Gateau. 

7. Sunflower Gateau. 

8. Erin Gateau. 

9. Etoile Giteau. 







TYPES OF DESSERT GATEAUX 



GATEAUX 441 

Gateau Supreme 

Take a round piece of light gateau paste and cut it into three layers. 
Sandwich together with a paste consisting of butter cream mixed with 
Italian meringue, highly flavoured with pralin^e (see p. 396). Giteau 
Cover the cake entirely with a portion of the cream, and sprinkle Supreme, 
over this, on top and around the sides, some coarse pieces of pralin^e. Finish 
by dusting well with vanilla sugar. 

GA.TEAU SUZETTE 

Take a square piece of No. 2 gateau paste, cut it into three layers, sand- 
wich these together with a mixing of light Italian butter cream flavoured 
with pralin^e similar to that used in the imperial gateau. Cover Gateau 
the gateau with apricot jelly, and mask with pale-green fondant Suzette. 
strongly flavoured with kirsch. Write the name Suzette in the centre with 
the same coloured fondant, outlined with chocolate fondant, and finish the 
decoration with preserved fruits. 

GIteau Gabrielle 

Take a round piece of No, 1 gateau paste, cut it into two layers, and 
sandwich these together with a rich pistachio butter cream flavoured with 
maraschino. Mask the gateau on top and round the sides with Gateau 
the same cream, and when cold and firm, ice over with a pale- Gabnelle. 
pink fondant. Finish by placing some chopped pistachio in the centre. 

Gateau Singapore 

Have a round of very light Genoese paste cut into three layers. Splash 
these slices over with maraschino; then sandwich together again Gateau 
with chopped pineapple and apricot pulp mixed, and mask over Singapore, 
the top with a thick paste consisting of chopped pineapple and cherries 
mixed with apricot jelly. Prepare some thin yellow fondant, ^^^ ^^ 
and ice the gateau over, allowing the fruits to show clear Fruit Paste, 
through the icing. 

Gateau Le Grandi 

Take three square pieces of thin gUteau paste (made by mixing half 
a pound of ground almonds and the same weight of castor sugar with 
seven whites of eggs beaten up quite stiff" and baked upon a Gateau 
floured and buttered baking sheet); sandwich these together ^^ Grandi. 
with a light butter cream, flavoured with fine crushed almond nougat. 
Mask over with butter cream, and place thin, grilled, filleted almonds 
round the sides. Write the words Le Grandi in the centre, and place 
at each corner a small nougat cornucopia filled with cream, and between 
each two of these lay a small piece of nougat of rock-like shape. 



442 SPECIAL GOODS 

Le Golbert Gateau 

Take three diamond-shaped pieces of gateau paste, the same as for Le 
Grandi gateau. Sandwich these together with a thick layer of raspberry 
Le Golbert jam, and mask over with apricot pulp. Ice the sides with 
Gateau. chocolate fondant, slightly covered with granulated chocolate 

as used for negro biscuits (see p. 423), mixed with chopped pistachio nuts. 
Ice the top over with pink fondant, and pipe in the centre the name Le 
Golbert. Decorate the border with a neat design in royal icing. 

La Rose Gateau 

Line some fancy-shaped round buttered moulds with sweet short paste. 
Spread a little apricot jam in the centre of each, and almost fill the mould 
La Rose with a mixture made from the following: ^ lb. of chopped roasted 
Gateau, hazel nuts, 14 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. flour, 3 oz. melted butter, 
7 whites, a little rose water and vanilla sugar. 

Beat up the whites until almost stiff; then stir in the nuts, sugar, and 
flour, which have previously been mixed together; add the flavouring, and. 
Pulled- lastly, the melted butter. Bake in a steady oven. When cold 

Sugar Roses, mask over with apricot jelly, ice over with rose-coloured fon- 
dant flavoured with rose water, and finish by placing in the centre a pulled- 
sugar or red marzipan rose, with three green leaves. 

MoussELiNE Rose Gateau 

Take | lb. ground almonds, 10 oz. castor sugar, 12 yolks, 2| oz. corn 
flour, 6 whites, and S^ oz. melted butter. Mix the almonds and sugar 
Mousseline together; cream these along with the yolks, using a wood 
Rose Gateau, spatula for the purpose; beat up the whites quite firm, then 
stir these in very lightly. Add the flour, and then the melted butter and 
rose flavouring last of all. Thoroughly grease a Genoese or savarin mould 
with clarified butter, and three-quarters fill this with the mixture. Bake 
in a steady oven. When cold, mask with apricot jelly flavoured with kirsch; 
ice over with pale-yellow fondant flavoured with rose water, and decorate 
with four small pink marzipan or pulled-sugar roses and eight small green 

leaves. 

Mousseline Vanilla Gateau 

Line a shallow pan (loaf tin) with sweet short paste. Spread in it a layer 
of apple jelly. Fill this three-quarters full with the above mousseline fill- 
Mousseline ing, but flavoured with vanilla. Ice the cake over with 

Vanilla Gateau, -vvhite fondant, after masking with apricot jelly. Before 
the fondant sets, drop on small pieces of pralinee and pistachio mixed 

Mousseline Violet GIteau 
Take some mixing as for mousseline vanilla gateau, only flavoured with 
essence of violet. Bake in a plain savarin hoop. When baked, mask over 
Mousseline with jelly, ice with violet-flavoured and coloured fondant 

Violet Gateau, (very pale), and decorate with crystallized violets and a neat 
design in royal icing. 



GATEAUX 443 

MoussELiNE Orange GAteau 

Use the same kind of pan and mixture as for the previous mousseline 
gateau, but spread some orange marmalade on the paste, and flavour the 
cream filling with orange zest. Mask over with jelly, ice Mousseline 
with pale-coloured orange fondant, and decorate with slices Orange Gateau, 
of oranges, partly dry and covered with caramel sugar. Place a small piece 
of crystallized cherry between each two adjacent slices of orange. The 
orange slices may for variety be placed so as to radiate in a circle from the 
centre; or they may be arranged all round the border of the gateau. 

GiTEAU d'AmANDES 

Take 1 lb. of butter and 1 lb. of castor sugar, and cream these well 
together. Beat in ten yolks of eggs; lightly stir in 10 oz. of Gateau 
ground almonds; then seven whites previously whipped up d'Amandes. 
quite stiff, and half a liqueur glass of kirsch; last of all, add 6 oz. of flour. 
Dress some square moulds with clarified butter; cover the Almond-lined 
inside with thin filleted almonds; three-quarters fill each Moulds, 
mould with the cream prepared as above, and bake in a steady oven. 
When cold, dust each over with vanilla sugar. 

Melon Gateau 

Bake some No. 3 gateau paste in the two halves of a melon mould. 

When these cakes are cold, hollow out the centre of each with a sharp knife, 

and fill up the cavity with butter cream, slightly coloured ,, , 

^ •' . P . Melon Gateau, 

with yellow and carmine, and flavoured with kirsch and 

some crushed almond nougat. Place a few filleted almonds on the cream 

to represent the seeds of the melon; place the two halves together, and 

mask over with apricot jelly; then cover with strips of green imitation 

and yellow marzipan. Ice over with pale-green water icing. Melon Seeds. 

Cut out a slice (see Plate, Saleable Gateaux, No. 3); lay this at the side 

of the gateau, and finish by adding a stalk, made with green pulled sugar 

or marzipan paste. When the centre of the gateau is lined with butter 

cream, a small space may be left, and filled with the cut almonds and 

apricot jelly. 

Swallow's Nest GAteau 

Bake a round of Genoese in a plain round savarin mould. Soak with 
kirsch, and mask with white fondant. Prepare some cream Swallow's 
of marron, made by passing pieces of marron glace through ^^^^ Gateau, 
a wire sieve, then mixing with whipped cream. Pipe this on top and 
around the sides of the gateau, made as described above, and cream of 
set it on a dish paper. Place a small round piece of gateau Marron. 
paste in the centre, and on top of this pipe a bird with whipped cream. 
Add to this pieces of angelica or gaufre paste for the wings . 

and tail, and pipe cream over. Use two small silver dragees with Cream, 
for the eyes. 



444 SPECIAL GOODS 

GiTEAU LA DUSE 

Grease a fancy-shaped mould with clarified butter, and cover the inside 
with ground almonds. Three-quarters fill the mould with a cream made 
Gateau according to the subjoined recipe, and bake in a steady oven. For 
la Duse. ^j^g cream mix 7 oz. of butter and 10 oz. of sugar together, and 
beat in 4 eggs as for Madeira cake. Add to this 4 oz. ground almonds, 
3 oz. corn flour, and 5 oz. of wheat flour. Whisk five whites quite stiff", and 
stir these in; then add a little orange-flower water to the cream. When 
cold, mask over with apricot jelly, and ice over with thin water icing 
flavoured with kirsch, and decorate lightly with prepared cherries. 

Gateau la Boule de Neige 

This gateau when finished is to represent a snowball. Bake a mixing 
of rich gateau paste in two halves of a melon mould, and when cold 
Gateau la soak with maraschino, and stick the two cakes together 

Boule de Neige. with pralin^e butter cream. Cover entirely with Italian 
meringue. Place here and there a few crystallized violets, stand the cake 
on a round piece of gateau paste iced pink all over, and place in the 
drying oven for one hour. 

GAteau Marcellin 

In an oval hoop or mould bake a mixture of rich gateau paste flavoured 
with vanilla sugar and unsweetened melted cocoa. When quite cold bevel 
Gateau off" the edge and sides with a sharp knife, split in three slices, 
Marcellin. a^jj(3^ sandwich together with chocolate cream. Cover with hot 
apricot jelly, mask with chocolate fondant, and lay on the centre a white 
marzipan rose. Pin out a piece of pale-green marzipan paste to ^ in. thick, 
mark it with the caramel roller, and cut into three-corner-shaped pieces. 
Bend the pieces of paste round a rolling-pin, and they will quickly become 
firm enough to lay around the sides of the gateau as shown in the illus- 
tration (see Plate, Saleable Gateaux, No. 1). Pipe a star of pink butter 
cream between each two pieces of marzipan, and lay upon each of these 
a small silver dragee. This gateau may be served up as an entremet. 
Where the cake is baked in a mould, turn it upside down when cold, 
hollow out the centre and fill in with whipped chocolate cream, into which 
some melted gelatine has been added, and finish off" as described. 

Violet GIteau 

Prepare a round of No. 1 gateau paste, split into three layers, and sand- 
wich together with whipped cream flavoured with crushed crystallized 

,,. , „^ violets and maraschino. Cover with hot ielly, mask the top 

Violet Gateau. ... J y > f 

with white fondant, and place around the sides some finely 
chopped roasted almonds. Pipe a cornucopia on top with orange and 
yellow royal icing, and fill in with marzipan violets. (See Plate, Saleable 
Gateaux, No. 6.) 



TYPES OF SALEABLE GATEAUX 

1. Marcellin. 

2. Shamrock. 

3. Melon. 

4. Marquise. 

5. Vermicelli. 

6. Violet. 








^^ -■ y^ iv 



TYPES OF SALEABLE GATEAUX 



GATEAUX 445 



Vermicelli Gateau 



Cut from a piece of rich cake a 6-in. square. Split in two slices, 
sprinkle some kirsch over it, and sandwich with apricot jam. Cover with 
hot jelly, mask the top with pistachio-coloured fondant, and Vermicelli 
around the sides with roasted almonds. Mark the centre with Gateau. 
a plain 2|-in. cutter, place in position four pieces of white and an equal 
number of pieces of dried pink marzipan paste, cut out with a small cutlet- 
shaped cutter, mark with a caramel roller, and shape upon a round 
base. Fill the centre with yellow whipped cream flavoured with kirsch, 
or butter cream piped with a small plain tube. (See Plate, Saleable 
Gateaux, No. 5.) 

GAteau Saint Honore 

This gateau (see Plate, Chou Pastries, Nos. 20, 22) was introduced by 
M. Auguste Julien, one of the three brothers Julien, noted originator 
cooks and confectioners in France in the nineteenth century, of Gateau 
It is made to hold a cream filling, which may consist of very *' °"°'"^- 
light custard, as used extensively on the Continent, or of whipped cream. 
The gateau may be decorated in various forms. 

Prepare as follows. Place on a slightly greased baking sheet a piece 
of short paste (No. 1) cut out round, about 7 to 8 in. in diameter, and ^ in. 
thick. Wash the border with egg, and on this pipe a ring of Eclair paste 
(see p. 397) with a |-in. plain tube. Pipe one dozen very small cream buns 
on a tray with the same paste, and bake in a hot oven (about 380° F.). 
When cold, dip the tops of the small buns in some caramel sugar. Lay 
them on the slab, and place on half of them a small preserved Building up 
cherry covered with caramel sugar, and sprinkle the remainder *^^ Gateau, 
with chopped pistachio. Attach these small buns to the border of eclair 
paste with a little caramel sugar, laying them close together, and arranging 
those with the preserved cherries alternately with the remainder decorated 
with pistachio. 

For the filling, prepare some hot custard as follows. Weigh into a thick 

mixing-bowl 1;^ oz. of corn flour, 4| oz. of castor sugar, and 1| oz. of vanilla 

sugar; add six yolks and | pt. of milk, and mix all into Special Custard 

a smooth mixture with a whisk. Place the pan over a ^°'" ^*- Honore. 

steady fire, and continue to stir the mixture with the whisk. Allow it to 

boil. At this stage an assistant should have the whites of six eggs beaten 

quite firm. Whisk these lightly into the custard, and remove from the fire. 

When this has cooled, after a few moments, spoon part of the custard into 

the g&teau. This should be dropped in small pieces, and the j^gt^ d f 

spoon slowly raised, bringing the cream up in sharp ridges. Filling in 

As the filling becomes firm and cold, the gateau may then be Custard. 

removed without fear of the cream dropping. It should remain fresh for 

two or three days. To be successful with the prepara- Precautions in 

tion of this filling, careful handling is necessary. The preparing Custard. 

whites must be very stiff". Where vanilla essence is used, add this to the 
Vol I. 67 



446 SPECIAL GOODS 

Whipped milk, with extra castor sugar. When whipped cream is used, 

it majT- be spooned in, or piped with bag and star tube. 

Another filling slightly cheaper than the custard or cream may be 
Cheap Mixed made by mixing together whipped whites and whipped cream 
Cream. Qf ^j^g same consistency. As an alternative method of deco- 

rating this gateau, the small round balls (cream buns) may have coloured 
Decorating with Crystallized fondants placed on them with alternate 

Fondants and Fruit, black and green grapes, or with preserved cherries, or 
quarters of oranges dipped previously into some hot caramel sugar. 

An elaborate Gateau St. Honors is made with halves of caramel pre- 
served apricots, preserved cherries, and spun sugar, and the cake filled 
Elaborate Gateau with whipped cream as follows. Prepare a paste base, 
St. Honor6. an(j Jay gmall cream buns in position, dipped and fastened 

with hot caramel sugar. With a dipping fork (fig. 60) cover some halves 
of preserved apricots and small cherries with hot sugar, and lay these upon 
the slab to cool. When firm, form a ring with the pieces of apricot upon 
the border of the gateau, by standing these on their edge and sticking 
them together by dipping one side of each into some hot sugar. Place a 
Use of spun small caramel cherry between each adjacent two, and cover 
Sugar. j^i^Q sides with a thick layer of white or pink spun sugar. 

Fill in the centre with cream, piped with a star tube. The sugar will 
stand for some time if carefully prepared and boiled to the right tempera- 
ture. This gateau will take longer to prepare, but is well worth the 
trouble, and with the glossy spun sugar presents a showy appearance 
when placed on the dinner or supper table. 

Another Gateau St. Honor^ is made by using chocolate fondant instead 
of caramel sugar. Cover the small cream buns with chocolate fondant, 
Rich Gateau with a little chopped pistachio on the centre of each. Attach 
St, Honore. these to the border of eclair paste with part of the fondant. 
Fill in the centre with cream, and sprinkle some pistachio or crushed 
crystallized violets on top. The small balls or cream buns are sometimes 
Filling- Cr am ^^^^^ with cream before being covered with the sugar or 
Buns without fondant. As they should not be cut for this purpose, the 
Cuttmg. cream should be forced in with a bag and ^-in. plain tube 

through a small hole in the bottom of each. Press the tube into the cream 
bun for this purpose, and only a very small hole will be made. 



SCOTCH SHORTBREAD 447 

CHAPTER LXXX 

SCOTCH AND OTHER SHORTBREAD 

There is a large export trade in shortbread still done by bakers in 
Scotland. The idea is very prevalent that it is impossible to make short- 
bread satisfactorily out of Scotland, even when the bakers scotch Bakers 
who attempt it elsewhere are themselves Scotch. It is a and Scotch 
pity to question a theory that has something romantic about 
it, and is at the same time so profitable to Scottish bakers. There is not, 
however, anything very mysterious about the manufacture of shortbread. 
As a general instruction it may be noted that the butter and sugar should 
be well mixed before any flour is rubbed in, and that the flour should be 
a soft biscuit variety. English wheat flour or French is very Flour for 
suitable. If the sugar is crystalline, it is better to mix a little Shortbread, 
water with it, and make it into a paste before rubbing in the butter; other- 
wise there is a danger of spots in the finished shortbread, why Spots 
Even in Scotland there are endless modifications in the recipes Appear, 
used. Some use an ounce of ground rice to each pound of flour; others add 
about the same quantity of ground almonds. There is more, perhaps, in the 
manner of mixing than in the recipe. The dough must not be made oily, 
as there is a danger of doing in hot weather, and it must importance of 
not be toughened by overmixing. The art of mixing the Methods of 
ingredients to prevent either of these eflfects comes naturally ixmg. 
to those whose experience has included the manufacture of hard biscuit 
doughs, and it is in this respect that the Scotch baker has the greatest 
advantage. 

When shortbread has to be made in large sheets to be hand-notched, or 
for penny squares, the usual method is to beat out the dough on the slightly 
dusted table with one hand, using the side of the other hand How to mould 
to keep the edges straight. When it has been shaped in Shortbread, 
this way with firm edges, it is transferred to a sheet of paper of the size 
the sheet of dough is ultimately to be. The paper must be dusted with 
flour to prevent the dough from sticking to it. The sheet of use of Paper 
dough is then pinned out on the paper to the thickness and '" Working, 
size wanted, the paper forming a convenient holder to turn the sheet round 
as required. The same method is followed with the larger round cakes. 
This prevents the shortbread from cracking when it is being placed on the 
baking sheet. 

In Scotland it is unusual to make penny sizes in separate cakes. These 
are invariably pinned out in sheets containing thirty cakes, and covering 
the whole of a baking sheet. They are neatly pinched with Penny Short- 
the fingers round the sides of this sheet only. They are bread Squares, 
marked ofl* in proper sizes while in the dough state, and cut through with 
a sharp knife at the marks, immediately they are taken from the oven. 



448 SLAB CAKES, SHORTBREAD, ETC. 

These are sometimes sold plain, and sometimes dusted over with icing or 
How Sugar pulverized sugar. When they are to be sugared, the sugar 
is Fixed. should be dusted on just as the sheet is quite finished baking, 
and it should then be kept in the oven a minute longer to fix the sugar. 
This expedient cakes the sugar, and prevents it from falling off when it 
has to be handled afterwards. Penny sizes are made about | in. thick, and 
Quantities for a mixture of 2 lb. flour and 1 lb. butter, or 12 oz. butter and 
Thirty Cakes. 4 02. lard, with | lb. sugar, is enough for thirty cakes. Some- 
times this sheet shortbread is cut into fingers about 3 in. long and 1 in. wide. 
These are made quite plain. 

A form called, in the East of Scotland, petticoat tails consists only of 

_ . „ ., ordinary shortbread doup^h, pinned in round cakes on flour- 
Petticoat 1 ails. o ' i 

dusted paper, about I in. thick, then cut in eight or ten 

triangular pieces. This form is usually sugared over. 

The small sizes of shortbread should always be baked in a hot oven 
(440° F.), and they can generally be regarded as thoroughly baked when 
Heat of Oven properly coloured. The larger sizes should be baked in as 
for Shortbread. ]^q^ ^^ oven as possible consistent with their being baked 
before being too much coloured. Shortbread is very readily burned in 
a cold oven. It continues pale and greyish after it is quite done, and may 
Why Shortbread ^® burned through and bitter before its colour indicates 
is sometimes even that it is done. Hand -pinched thick shortbreads 

"'^"^ ■ should always be protected on the edge with a paper 

band or a hoop, and if very thick they generally need several layers of 
paper underneath, and sometimes a sheet of paper on top. The n)ost 
Thickness satisfactory thickness for shortbreads is about f in., but a cake 
of Cakes. Qf ^j^ig thickness should not be more than 8 in. in diameter. 
If larger sizes are wanted, they must be correspondingly thicker, and need 
watching in baking. It is usual to charge about Is. per pound for good 
shortbread. 

In the preparation of rich shortbread dough only the best materials 
should be used. Butter is more or less used as a moistening agent. It 
Quality of should contain plenty of body, and be free from water. The 
Materials, j^gg^ flour for the purpose should be of a soft nature, containing 
only a small percentage of gluten. Fine castor sugar is suitable, and is 
preferred to powdery or very coarse varieties. In the two recipes given 
below for large shortbreads butter is the only moistening and shortening 
agent used. This requires hard work in blending with the other in- 
gredients to form a firm tight dough, which will make cakes to eat short 
and crisp. 

Weigh down on the board 12 lb. of flour, 6 lb. of butter, and 3 lb. of 
castor sugar. Mix the two latter together until they become well incor- 
Recipe for porated by rubbing on the table. Then draw in the flour, a 
Shortbread, little at a time, and make all into a dough by rubbing the 
ingredients together with both hands upon the board. After the dough 
has stood a little, it will be ready for moulding in wooden blocks, or for" 



SCOTCH SHORTBREAD 449 

pinning out in various shapes and pinching with the fingers. Dock over 
the surface, and stab in one or two places with a skewer. Bake Blocking 
in a solid oven (380° to 400° F.). Some prefer to bake these Shortbread, 
cakes in shallow hoops to protect the borders from taking too much colour. 

Another mixture may be prepared in the same manner with the fol- 
lowing ingredients: 10| lb. flour, 1^ lb. scone flour, 6f lb. of butter, 3| lb. 
of sugar, and If lb. of ground rice. 

Pitcaithly bannocks consist of shortbread dough mixed with chopped 
peel and almonds. Weigh 4 lb. flour, 2 lb. butter, and 1 lb. sugar, and 
make these into shortbread dough in the usual way. Then pitcaithiy 
work into it | lb. dry and finely chopped orange peel, and | lb. Bannocks, 
chopped blanched almonds. These must be very thoroughly mixed to pre- 
vent streakiness. The shortbread is then prepared in round cakes in the 
usual way. 

German shortbread is made from the following recipe: 4 lb. flour, 
2| lb. butter, 1 lb. 6 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, and | oz. ground cinna- German 
mon. The eggs are first mixed with the sugar; then the butter Shortbread, 
and cinnamon are rubbed in, and the flour by degrees. 

Decorated shortbreads are made by decorating the large cakes with 
various coloured fondants, royal icing, crystallized fruits, flowers, or silver 
dragees. Eflective designs for this purpose may be quickly Decorated 
made by laying upon the cake a cardboard templet, cut out in Shortbread, 
a fancy shape, and outlining it with icing. The shape thus made may be 
filled with fondant run in from a paper cornet, and decorated as required. 
Some of the simplest designs, such as the outline of a star shape, may 
be divided into sections with piped lines of royal icing, and these in 
turn filled with various coloured fondants. Crystallized fruits used for 
decorating should have the dry sugar washed off" in warm water, and in 
turn rubbed over with a little clear syrup to give them a bright glossy 
appearance. When clear syrup is not used, touch the pieces of fruit with 
a camel's-hair brush dipped into liquid gum arabic. 

At Christmas in England and New Year in Scotland a good deal of 
decorated shortbread is sold with appropriate mottoes, of which " For Auld 
Lang Syne " is the greatest favourite. These mottoes may be Mottoes on 
made with comfits, or with orange peel," or with royal icing. Shortbread, 
either on the shortbread itself, or on chocolate or marzipan medallions. 
The orange peel can be cut out in letters with suitable cutters, and if the 
quantity needed is large, the peel letters can be prepared some time befoi'e 
the busy season and kept in syrup, the diffferent letters 
being in separate jars. Printed medallions can also be peei Letters, 
prepared beforehand in the same way. When the decora- Flowers, Thistles, 
tion is made direct on the shortbread, all the roses or 
other flowers can be made in advance, and so also can thistle heads, which 
are considered a specially suitable form of decoration for shortbread. The 
stalks and leaves have only then to be piped on the shortbread after it is 
baked. 



450 SLAB CAKES, SHORTBEEAD, ETC. 

Small shortbreads in the English style, to retail at 2d. each, may be 
prepared as follows. Weigh down 2| lb. flour, make a bay, and place in 
English the centre 1 lb. butter, \ lb. lard, 10 oz. castor sugar, and three 

Shortbread. \.^ygQ gggs. Mix the fats, eggs, and sugar lightly together; 
draw in the flour, and make the dough with as little labour as possible. 
Allow to lie for a short time; then scale ofl" in 4-oz. pieces, hand up, pin 
out round, pinch the borders, dock, cut each into four pieces of equal size, 
and bake on papered baking sheets in a solid oven at 420° F. 

Another shape is made with paste prepared from the same recipe, with 
extra egg to soften it slightly for pinning out thin. Pin out the paste ^ in. 
Sheet Short- thick in sheets 12 in. square; lay each upon a piece of paper; 
bread. draw these on baking sheets, and pinch the borders with 

paste nippers or with the fingers. Dock thoroughly, mark off" into small 
squares with a knife, and bake in a solid oven at 400° F. When cold, 
divide these rich shortbreads into pieces at the places where they had 
been previously marked with the knife. 

Ordinary small shortbreads retailed at \d. each are made boat-shaped, 
either blocked or cut out with an oval cutter, pinched, and baked with 
Boat-shaped a strip of Orange peel down the centre. A paste prepared 
Shortbreads, j^g follows will give good results. Weigh down 2| lb. flour. 
Rub in 8 oz. butter and 8 oz. lard, make a bay, add 1 lb. sugar, and 
with five eggs and a little essence of lemon make all into a smooth dough. 
Place in the coolest part of the bakery for two hours and handle as fol- 
lows. Pin out to \ in. thick, cut out with an oval plain cutter about 
4| in. in length, pinch the borders with the thumb and forefinger, place 
on baking sheets, lay a piece of orange peel on the centre, and bake in an 
oven at about 400° F. 

Shortbread fingers are very popular, for being dry they are easily 
handled without soiling the fingers. Prepare in the following manner with 
Shortbread 2 lb. flour, 1^ lb. butter, 12 oz. castor sugar, the zest of two 
Fingers. oranges, and three large eggs. Mix the ingredients together 
as for twopenny shortbreads; pin the paste to \ in. thick, cut this into 
fingers 3| in. long and f in. wide, and lay close together on a papered 
baking sheet. Bake in a solid oven at 400° F. When cold, cover half the 
biscuits with ordinary fine-grained castor sugar, and the remainder with 
pink castor sugar, coloured with carmine and dried before using. 

Small round shortbreads about 2| in. in diameter are suitable for after- 
noon tea parties. Take 2 lb. flour, 8 oz. ground almonds, 1^ lb. butter, 12 oz. 
Afternoon-Tea castor Sugar, and the zest of two lemons, and lightly mix 
Shortbread. q\\ j^^o a dough with four large eggs. Pin out to \ in. 
thick, cut out with a plain round cutter 2| in, in diameter, and lay them 
inside shallow hoops 2| in. in diameter upon papered baking sheets. Bake 
in a steady oven at 380° F., and when ready dust with fine castor sugar. 



GINGERBREAD AND GINGER CAKES 451 

CHAPTER LXXXI 

GINGERBREAD AND GINGER CAKES 

Gingerbread is probably one of the oldest forms of cake known. It 
has certainly been known since the fourteenth century, when it was made 
and sold in Paris, according to Monteil in his Histoire des Gingerbread Six 
FraTigais. It was formerly made of rye flour kneaded Centuries Ago. 
with ginger and other spices, and sweetened with honey. In some parts of 
the Continent gingerbread is still made in larger or smaller quantities, and 
baked in large blocks to be sold by weight. These are made with white 
or light-brown dough mixed with honey and glucose. They are of a very 
light spongy texture, quite different from that made in this Continental 
country. After the doughs are prepared they usually remain Honey Cake, 
in tubs for several days before baking. Honey in this country was and 
is still an expensive commodity, and for this reason black treacle formerly 
entered largely into the manufacture of gingerbread. The treacle » worked 
was mixed with other ingredients, such as carbonate of potash Treacle." 
and alum, mixed in a bucket and allowed to lie several days before using. 
This was called worked treacle. This mode of preparing use of 
the doughs with worked treacle is now superseded by the Golden Syrup, 
use, more or less, of golden syrup, which needs no special preparation. 

The demand for gingerbread in this country is on the wane, no doubt 
because of the increased variety of other confectionery now made. Slabs 
of gingerbread are seldom seen, although various kinds of small, very light, 
spongy ginger cakes are made in most bakeries. 

Block Gingerbread 

For block gingerbread the following recipe will give good results. 
Weigh down and mix together 5 lb. wheat flour (n\edium strong) and 

1 lb. rye flour. Rub in IJ lb. butter; make a bay and add Block Ginger- 
twelve eggs, 1| lb. moist sugar, 1 oz. ground ginger, 8 oz. bread Recipe, 
chopped preserved ginger, 2 oz. mixed spice, 8 oz. finely chopped orange peel, 

2 oz. bicarbonate of soda. Make all into a stiff dough with 3|- lb. of golden 
syrup and 8 oz. of liquid glucose, both slightly warmed. Place the dough 
into a pan to lie for twenty-four hours; then scale off the sizes required. 
Pin the pieces out to 1 in. thick, dock, and bake in wooden frames in a cold 
oven (about 310° F.). While hot, wash over with egg; and milk or ordinary 
stock syrup, or a mixture of gelatine coloured with black jack. Gingerbread 
If required, a little milk should be added to the dough to Glaze. 
assist the other moistening agents, but the dough should not be made soft. 

Another recipe is here given which will also produce good results. The 
materials and quantities are: 3 lb. flour, 6 oz. butter or 
lard, 8 oz. sugar, 1^ lb. syrup, 6 oz. mixed peel, 4 oz. pre- 
served ginger, | oz. bicarbonate of soda, a little milk. Butter or lard of 



452 SLAB CAKES, SHORTBREAD, ETC. 

Why Soda the best quality should be used for those mixtures, which 

Alone IS Used. ,. ,, n , , ,, »,, 

contain soda and no cream oi tartar. Many of the butter 

substitutes impart a soapy flavour. Soda alone is used because of the 

Why Gingerbread ^^^^ present in the syrup, and as the reaction between 

is Allowed to the soda and these acids is very slow in the cold the 

mg. ^jQ^gjj ^g allowed to lie for the time stated. 

Faotgry Gingerbread 

In some districts a cheap round ginger cake is sold, weighing between 
7 and 8 oz. These are baked in shallow hoops and are now largely made 
Factory -made ^y the biscuit manufacturers. They may be prepared in the 
Gingerbread. following manner. Weigh down 3| lb. wheat flour and 1 lb. 
rye flour. Mix thoroughly with 1^ oz. cream of tartar and 1 oz. soda. 
Prepare the bay, and add 12 oz. lard, 8 oz. sugar, 1} oz. ground ginger, 
I oz. crushed cinnamon, ^ oz. mixed spice, a little milk (about i pt.), and 
3 lb. of warmed golden syrup. Make all into a medium stiflT dough, and 
cover over to rest for two hours before moulding. Scale off' in pieces 
weighing 8 oz., hand up, pin round and lay in greased hoops 6| to 7 in. 
in diameter upon greased baking sheets. Dock in the centre and bake 
in a cold oven (310° F.). While hot, wash over with syrup or a mixture 
of gelatine and water. Baking in a cool oven is necessary for the above 
mixtures, as they will sink in the centre, on account of the syrupy nature 
of the dough, when the oven is at a high temperature. 

Another recipe for block gingerbread to sell in sixpenny pieces is as 
follows: 3 lb. soft flour, 1 oz. bicarbonate of soda, | lb. butter or lard, 
Moulded Blocks 2 lb. sugar, ^ lb. Orange peel, 2 oz. mixed spice, 2 lb. 
at Sixpence. golden syrup. The butter, sugar, and eggs are well beaten 

together; then dough is made, the soda, of course, having been thoroughly 
sifted through the flour. The dough should not be used until it is at least 
twenty-four hours old. It is then weighed into 12-oz. pieces, and these are 
singly moulded on the table into oblong pieces about 1 in. thick with the 
hands. The pieces are then greased round the edges and placed side by 
side on a greased baking sheet, the edges being kept up with wood upsets, 
also greased. The top is then marked with a wooden block on which 
there is a thistle or other design, and the sheet glazed over with egg. It 
should then be allowed to lie for two or three hours before baking in a 
cold oven. After it is baked and allowed to cool, the blocks separate quite 
easily owing to their being greased. The pieces are about 2 in. thick 
after baking. 

Small oblong pieces of ginger cake glazed with water icing may be pre- 
pared from the above dough. Add 8 oz. of extra chopped mixed peel and 
Small Ginger- preserved ginger to the dough, pin out to a little more than 
bread Squares. 1 jjj thick, lay this upoii a greased baking sheet, and dock 
all over. Place greased wooden batons in position to prevent the dough 
from spreading, wash with milk, divide into sections 3 in. long by 2 in. in 



SOME LEADING SCOTTISH BAKERS 

Simon Henderson, bom at Inverkeithing, Fifeshire, in 1837, 
spent a few years in Australia after serving his apprenticeship to 
baking, and in 1866 started business on his own account in Edin- 
burgh. His business grew rapidly, and in 1892 he started the 
manufacture of biscuits, and is now one of the leading manu- 
facturers in Scotland. 

Peter Hanlon was born of Irish parents at Maxwelltown, 
Dumfries, and was for many years in business as a baker in his 
native town. In 1896 he was President of the Scottish Association 
of Master Bakers, and in 1898 he became Permanent Secretary of 
the Association. He has taken an active part in public affairs, and 
in 1890 he was elected a Bailie of his burgh, having been Treasurer 
for some years before that. He is an excellent swimmer, and has 
saved several persons from drowning in the Nith. 

Robert Lyon, bom at Colinton, Midlothian, in 1844, started 
business as a baker in Leith in 1868. He was the first to introduce 
Vienna bread into Scotland, and now does a very large trade in it. 
He was an original member of both the National and the Scottish 
Association, and was President of the latter for one year. He was 
for three years Chairman of the Scottish Judges at the London 
Exhibition, and was till 1907 a member of Leith Town Council. 

William Forwell, born in Glasgow in 1863, succeeded his 
father, the Rev. William Forwell, in a baking and biscuit business 
in Dundee in 1881. Mr. Forwell has always taken a great interest 
in educational affairs, and is one of the few Scottish bakers who 
have obtained the First-Class Honours Certificate and prize of the 
City and Guilds of London Institute. He entered Dundee Town 
Council in 1906, and was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 1907. 
He is the President of the Scottish Association of Master Bakers 
for 1907-8. 




SIMON HENDERSON 
(Edinburgh) " 



PETER HANLON 

(Maxwelltown) 




ROBERT LYON 

(Leith) 



WILLIAM FORWELL 

(Dundee) 



SOME LEADING SCOTTISH BAKERS 



GINGERBREAD AND GINGER CAKES 453 

width, partly cutting through the dough, and bake in an oven at 320° F. 
Wash over with thin warmed water icing, and cut into pieces to retail at 
Id. each. 

Rich Ginger Cakes 

Very light ginger cakes of a rich quality, baked in round hoops lined 

with paper, are prepared as follows. Weigh into a mixing-bowl 11 oz. 

butter and 4 oz. castor sucjar, with 1 oz. ground ginger, ^. ^ , 

, ,Tri 1 . . Ginger Cakes, 

and beat these ingredients together. When the mixture is 

quite light, mix in six yolks; then add 8 oz. chopped preserved ginger, 
5 gills golden syrup, 1^ lb. soft flour, and h pt. milk with which has 
been incorporated ^ oz. bicarbonate of soda. Begin to mix these in- 
gredients lightly together, and add at the same time the whites of six 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Scale off in papered hoops 6 in. in diameter, 
in 1 lb. portions; bake in a moderate oven (about 340° F.). Finally wash 
with milk. These cakes are retailed at 9d. each. 

Another light ginger cake, made in shallow oval pans, greased with 
clarified butter, is prepared in the following manner. Cream together in 
a mixing-bowl 1 lb. butter, 12 oz. castor sugar, ^ oz. ground Another Light 
ginger, i oz. mixed spice. Beat in nine large eggs, two at Ginger Cake, 
a time, add 2 lb. of flour with which has been incorporated ^ oz. cream of 
tartar and | oz. bicarbonate of soda. Mix all together into a light smooth 
batter with 1 lb. of golden syrup slightly warmed. Dress some shallow 
oval pans with butter, place a few split almonds in the oval Almond 
bottom, and weigh 8 oz. of the mixture into each pan. Bake Ginger Cakes, 
in a moderate oven (about 370° F.). When baked turn upside down on a 
wire tray. Retail at 4c?. each. 

Another ginger cake, to retail at 8£^., is prepared from the following 
recipe. Weigh into the mixing-bowl 12 oz. butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, and 
2 oz. mixed spice. Beat all to a cream, work in six eggs, add 4 oz. finely 
chopped orange peel, 6 oz. sultanas, 1 lb. 14 oz. plain flour with which 
10 oz. of patent flour has been mixed. Mix all together into a light 
batter with 2 lb. 2 oz. of warmed golden sj^^rup. Paper seven cake hoops 
about 5 1 in. in diameter, and divide the paste equally between them. 

Iced ginger cakes may be prepared by covering the top of these cakes 
with fondant flavoured with syrup from jars containing pre- 
served ginger. Decorate the tops with thin pieces of ginger, Cakes. 
split bright cherries, and diamond-shaped pieces of angelica. 



ToL. I. 58 



454 SLAB CAKES, SHOKTBKEAD, ETC. 

CHAPTER LXXXII 

CAKE MANUFACTURE 

Cake-making is an important branch of the confectioner's work, and 
it is one of the parts very much neglected by confectioners themselves, 
as well as by those in charge of confectioners' shops. A good deal of the 
cake trade has in consequence been transferred to grocers, who are sup- 
How Cakes plied from factories. Cakes are very often spoiled in the first 
are Spoiled, instance by bad manipulation, and frequently by bad baking, 
&c. Their appearance is sometimes spoiled by bad cutting, or by exposure 
to the air, the direct rays of the sun, or the dust which is inevitable in an 
Display and Open shop. When the sale is small, it is better to keep 

Stocking of Cake, ^akes in a close glass case, where they are free from dust, 
retain their moisture, and have not the parched and stale appearance Avhich 
so readily drives possible customers away. In the matter of fruit cakes 
Overloaded there is a tendency to overload them. Many customers prefer 
Fruit Cake, ^q g.^^ ^ piece of rich plum cake, which is not overloaded with 
fruit, rather than the sickly, sugary, (so-called) fancy cakes which are often 
exposed for sale. Confectioners who travel on the Continent find very 
Continental little cake made like our English sorts. Nearly all the con- 
Cakes, fectionery in these shops could be classed as fancy confectionery, 
but these goods are not suited to the tastes of our people. 

Where best cake is required the confectioner should use only the best 
materials. Butter intended for best cake should have plenty of body, and 
Use of Salt be free from salt and water. If only salt butter can be ob- 
Butter. tained it must be well washed, and then have the water 

S(][ueezed out of it. Fop creaming purposes this should, in cold weather, 
be slightly warmed but not melted, and then beaten up (if intended for, 
say, rich plain Madeira cake) with fine-grained castor sugar, until it 
becomes a light, soft, creamy mass. At this stage the eggs should be added. 
Methods of and beaten into it gradually, care being taken not to beat 

Beating Batter, ^j^g batter all over the bowl, but to keep it well together 
in the centre, at the same time mixing in the eggs. When this is ready 
for the flour (which should be of a rather soft but high grade) it should 
be stirred in as lightly as possible, so as to obtain a smooth, light batter. 
In the case of a rich Madeira cake there is nothing more to add that is 
essential. The mixture is then scaled ofl" into hoops for small cakes, or 
wooden frames for large ones, and baked in an oven at a suitable tem- 
perature. 

Usually, rich cakes weighing 1 lb., and baked in hoops 5 to 5| in. in 
diameter, will take from thirty-five to forty minutes to bake. Where rich 
Time to bake cakes are required very fine textures may, or should be, ob- 
Small Cakes, tained with eggs; but where these have to be reduced, in 
quantity, and chemical raising powders used along with milk, there is some 



CAKE MANUFACTURE 455 

difficulty in producing- sucli h fine texture, especially if the old method of 

creaming up the butter and sugar is followed. At the same time good 

texture can be obtained when the cakes are carefully made. 

At the initial stage the batter should be carefully beaten up so as to get 

as much air as possible into it, without knocking out any of that previously 

beaten in. Where a good trade is done, a great saving of time to Aerate 

and labour is effected if a cake machine is used, A machine to ^^^ Batter. 

be used either for rich or cheap cakes should be geared to produce a high 

or a low speed as required. Though using a cake machine will generally 

give better results, yet care and thoughtfulness must be exer- Machinery in 

cised in its working; otherwise cakes made with the best of Cake-making. 

materials will be unfit for sale. All butters before being placed in the 

machine, especially in cold weather, should be rubbed down on the slab, 

then added with the sugar, which should be warmed if soften the Butter 

the butter is still firm and the bakehouse cold. With before Machining. 

the machine running at the fast speed, beat the fat and sugar to a light 

cream; if the mixture is for a rich cake add the eggs as fast as they can 

be beaten up, then stop the machine, and turn out the batter into a large 

pan, and very lightly stir in the flour. Unless one has had a great deal 

of experience, for the best cakes it is advisable to stir in the Mixing Flour 

flour by hand. This need not be done where the mixture is ^y Hand. 

for cheap cakes, containing no eggs, for in this case it will improve the 

texture if the flour is added slowly to the machine while it is running on 

the slow speed, and about four or five minutes should be Method of 

allowed for this operation. At this stage, while speaking preparing 

about adding the flour in the machine, we may remark that ^^^ * ^^' 

it is essential that tho whole liquor to be used should be added at the same 

time as the flour; otherwise there will be a comparatively tough dough 

made first, with which it is afterwards extremely difficult to .j.^ Avoid 

mix the milk without producing excessive toughness. The Toughening 

question may be asked: "Why stir in the flour by hand for * ^ ixture. 

the rich cake, and use the machine for the cheaper quality?" The answer 

is that the rich cake contains a large quantity of eggs, and if carefully 

made, the batter should be filled with multitudes of little ^n,^,„ .^^ iwro^t,;„« 
' _ ^ Wny the Machine 

air-cells, and there is danger of these being broken up if may make 
the flour is worked in by machine, wath the result that ^ ^^ eavy. 
the whole mixture is likely to become heavy. That is why many con- 
fectioners prefer to mix the flour in by hand; some even go so far as to 
say that the eggs should not be beaten up by machine, but we do not agree 
with this. With the cheaper cake, which may contain very few, if any, 
eggs, provided that all the liquor required for the mixing has been added 
in with the flour, as previously stated, the machine mixes it better than 
can be or at least usually is done by hand, and with this cake, which con- 
tains powder to aerate it, there is not the same danger of spoiling as with 
the rich mixture. 

Very good results may be obtained — and the method is adopted by 



456 SLAB CAKES, SHORTBREAD, ETC. 

some confectioners for their rich Madeiras — by mixing up the butter with 
New Method ^ si^J^^H quantity of flour on the board, beating up the eggs 
of Beating and sugar warmed in a sponge machine for five minutes, and 

me a es. t,hen carefully stirring these into the butter and flour which 
have been mixed together, and last of all adding the remainder of the flour. 
Where these cakes are carefully made, the mixing will take more liquor. 
To Cause Batters ^"*^ S^^® ^ ^^^Y ^^^ texture; but sad results will be ob- 
to take more tained if too much flour is added with the fat in the first 

^^^°^- instance, or if that is overworked, as this will toughen 

the cake, causing it to come up to a small point and to draw in at the sides. 
Manufacturers of cheap slab cake will find, if they adopt this method for the 
cake from 6d. a pound downwards, it will give them more profit than work- 
ing by the old method, as more liquor and sugar may with good results be 
added to the mixing. The method is as follows, and may be recommended 
to those confectioners who have to make cheap slab cake to compete with 
cutting grocers. Place the fat or oil, together with a small quantity of 
Method of flour free from chemicals, into the machine; mix all these well 
Mixing together at the slow speed, and then put the machine on to 

eap a s. ^j^^ ^^^^ speed for a few minutes. Stop the machine, and add 
the remainder of the flour, into which the chemicals have been well blended; 
pour in the milk, to which the colouring and flavouring have been added, 
and in which the sugar has been dissolved; put the machine on to the fast 
speed for three minutes; then finish at the slow speed until the batter is 
smooth. Cheap cakes made by this method, if care is taken, should have 
a close and even texture. 

Fats suitable for these cheap cakes may be obtained from the firms who 
make a speciality of butter substitutes. (See Vol. I, Chaps. XLIII and XLIV.) 
Butter Substitutes One quality essential in such substitutes is that they be 
in Cakes. quite neutral with regard to taste. Some of these give 

very good results in rich cakes by mixing one-third to two-thirds of butter, 
but as a rule reducing slightly the total fat in the mixing. All pastry cooks 
ai-e agreed that, where the cost is no object, butter is the best fat to use, but 
with the present keen competition, and with best cake retailed at 8d. per 
pound, the price of butter alone does not permit of a fair profit. It is possible 
Cheap Cakes with that cake made with butter and no substitute could be 
Butter only. made to sell at 8d. per pound, but the other ingredients 

would have to be reduced in quality to meet it. However well and care- 
fully made, butter contains other things besides pure fat, of which the 
Non-economical following may be mentioned: salt, curd, milk, sugar, &c. 
^"**^'"- Where these are found together with water in large quan- 

tities the butter is not economical even if cheap. Some opposition to 
the use of butter substitutes has been brought about by the mistake of 
Wrone Use using them with best butter, and taking for 1 lb. of butter 
of Butter in the recipe 1 lb. of substitute in its place, with the result 
u stitutes. ^j^^^ ^YiQ cake when baked not only has a greasy appear- 
ance, but is found to be fatty when sampled, and at once the substitute 



CAKE MANUFACTURE 457 

is condemned, especially if common essences have been added to the 
mixing. 

There are two kinds of thick crusts which some cakes have. The first 
of these is caused by the cake being overbaked in a very hot Thick Crusts 
oven. Where this is so, the cake, if a very rich one, has a huge °" Cakes, 
crack in the top caused by the heat of the oven forming a crust before the 
inside has finished aerating; then as the interior air or gas cause of 
expands, it cracks the crust to escape. This crack spoils the Hard Cracks 
appearance of the cake, and when cut it will generally be 
found to be close and heavy in texture. To guard against this it is 
necessary to bake them at a suitable temperature, noting that the richer 
the cake the longer the fruit takes to bake; and if 880" F. in an ordinary 
steam oven is a suitable temperature for ordinary Is. Madeiras, the large 
fruit cakes should have a lower temperature. If this lower Temperatures 
temperature cannot be obtained, place around the wooden for Cake- 
frame or hoop a thick band of newspaper, also one on top. ^ *"^' 
Where side-flue ovens have been employed during the morning for small 
goods, &c., rich cakes should be baked in them late in the afternoon, so long 
as the oven is not too cold to merely boil the cakes. If these rich cakes 
are baked too slowly, the inside will have a deep colour as j^j^j^ Cakes 
if dark sugar had been used. The second kind of thick Spoiled by too 
crust referred to may only be on top of the cake, and in ° ^" 
this case may be caused by an excess of fat and sugar being mixed 
together, or otherwise insuflScient flour. In this case the mixture will not 
bake, but only forms a kind of sja'up in the oven, and the 
cake sinks in the centre. A cake made under such con- 
ditions would have a thick shiny crust, and be liable to crumble when 
touched. The inside of the cake would be heavy, having more the appear- 
ance of pudding than cake. Where light cheap cakes are required, and the 
quantity of sugar is increased, the fat must be reduced; otherwise a light 
cake will not be obtained. 

As stated above, an excess of fat and sugar may cause this; but there 
are other causes. If a cake is made too light with eggs or powder, and an 
insufficient quantity of flour is added, it will drop in the cakes Sinking 
centre. Another frequent cause is the moving of the cakes *" *^^ Centre, 
while in the oven before the mixture has properly set. The same defect 
is produced if the cakes are removed from the oven before being baked 
sufficiently. 

Where a cake batter curdles, the texture will not be so even as if 
curdling had not taken place. Sometimes the mixture will curdle through 
the eggs being added too quickly; or if the butter contains The Curdling 
too much water this forms a syrup with the sugar; and after °^ Mixtures, 
a certain quantity of eggs has been added, the batter will slip and 
slide about, and will not amalgamate with the other ingredients. Weak, 
watery eggs are another cause of this happening; and although this may 
be checked by adding a little flour at the right time, yet the cake would 



458 SLAB CAKES, SHOKTBREAD, ETC. 

be better if it were unnecessary to add any flour until all the eggs had 
been beaten in, that is, if the batter had not curdled. 

Currants or sultanas for cakes should not be too large, but of medium 
size, sweet, and fleshy. Cheap dry sultanas should not be used. Thougli 
there is no need to wash sultanas, yet if the fruit is 
inclined to be very dry it will be better to do so than to 
put them in to spoil the appearance and flavour of the cake. Currants 
should always be washed, cleaned, and partl}^ dried before using. Orange, 
lemon, and citron peel should be of good colour and flavour. They should 
not be added to cake mixtures in chunks, as is so often done, but should be 
in long shredded pieces. Large pieces of peel are sometimes the cause of a 
cake cutting badly. 

In baking rich cakes — speaking of the size retailed at Is. to 2s. each — a 
fairly sharp oven is necessary, one which will bake the cakes in a short time, 
Baking Cakes ^^^ ^^^ leave them with a nice golden bloom. As previously 
at a Suitable stated, a cake weighing 1 lb., baked in a hoop 5 in. in 
emperature. diameter (which is a suitable size, and will cause the cake 
to have a bold cauliflower head), in a fairly warm oven, will bake in thirty- 
five to forty minutes. Even steam-pipe ovens bake cakes at very varying 
temperatures. While 380° F. may be considered a sound hot oven in one 
case, another oven will not produce the same results unless it is about 
420° F. The baking is more important than most confectioners imagine; 
and when working with the same oven day after day, a man up to his 
work will soon know what temperatures are suitable for certain cakes, and 
will not allow them to remain in too long. It is really best to time cakes 
accurately under varying temperatures, and keep a record. This is not 
an infallible guide as to their readiness, but it is some indication that 
may at least save worry. If this principle is thoroughly learned, there will 
be fewer complaints about cake drying so quickly. The same principle 
applies to all kinds of confectionery. When the articles are left in the 
oven some minutes after being baked, even if the oven is not sufficiently 
hot to burn them, some of the moisture will be evaporated, with the result 
that they will dry more quickly when kept in the shop. 

Where possible, cakes should always be baked in fairly large batches; 
and if these are slab cakes, the door of the oven should be kept closed until 
Baking Cakes they are baked. A temperature which will bake a cake 
in Batches. 31 to 4 in. thick, and weighing 6 to 8 lb., in about 2^ 
hours is the best; this refers to a cake having a medium quantity of fruit. 
Rich Genoa cakes would take longer, as they contain more fruit, and a 
slower oven would be required for these. Avoid using a slack oven for 
plain seed Genoa or Madeira cakes, as these being longer in the oven in 
baking are apt to cut with a bad colour and be very close in texture, and 
in such circumstances may show a thick dark streak in the bottom of the 
cake. 

In preparing large hoops for wedding cakes, a thick band of cartridge 
paper or brown paper should be placed around the inside, and a thick band 



CAKE MANUFACTURE 459 

of newspaper should also be tied on the outside of the hoop; and when the 
bottom heat of the oven is rather sharp, the baking sheets with ^g^i^i^g 
the cakes should in their turn be laid upon other baking sheets Wedding 
covered with a thick layer of sawdust or of ashes from the ^ ^^" 
furnace. In some bakeries these cakes are placed in the oven overnight, 
and allowed to remain in the best part of the night. When very thick 
cakes have to be baked this is not a bad arrangement, and if a large thick 
cake weighing, say, about 30 lb. requires about 9 or 10 hours to bake, to 
ensure that the very centre is thoroughly done, it is a good expedient to 
bake a tube or pipe about 2 in. in diameter there, the hole left when the 
pipe or cylinder is removed to be afterwards filled in with almond paste. 

Wedding cakes should be made at least two months before being 
required for orders, lying for two days after baking to become quite cold, 
then washed over with a mixture of rum and brandy, or a liqueur storj^g 
like maraschino. Wrap each cake separately in grease-proof Wedding 
paper, and stick on a ticket giving the date when made and ^ ^^" 
also the weight of cake. Store them in a dry cupboard lined with zinc, 
a small piece of perforated zinc being fixed in the door so as to permit a 
little air to enter the cupboard. Too much care cannot be exercised in 
storing ordinarj^ cakes, and the instructions given for storing wedding 
cakes, except only the washing over with spirit, may with advantage be 
followed in the case of all slab and large cakes when not wanted for 
immediate sale. 

For best cakes, and all that are required of a light colour, fine-grained 
castor sugar should be used. With coarse-grained sugar there is a danger 
of producing specks which show on the cakes after baking, sugar for 
unless they have been made by the method of beating up Cake-making, 
eggs and sugar together with a whisk over the bain-marie, and so dis- 
solving the grains of sugar. Sugar tends to improve the texture of cakes, 
and when cheap cakes are made plenty should be used, provided the cake 
is not made too sweet. It should be dissolved in the liquor before being 
added to the fat and flour. Barbados sugar should be used for rich 
Dundee or other dark fruit cake; for wedding cakes, when possible to 
obtain it, use foot sugar (see Vol. I, p. 265), which imparts an agreeable 
flavour and a rich colour to the cake. 

When cherries are used in cakes, they not infrequently sink to the 
bottom during baking. In many instances this trouble is brought about 
by the fruit either being very large, or containing a large quan- ^, . 
tity of syrup or water. The presence of excess water is not the Sinking 
fault of the preservers, but very often of the confectioner himself. '" Cakes. 
Finding the cherries covered with a thick syrup, some men steep them in 
water for a long time until they become sodden, whereas they should be 
washed at once in only a little water, and then thoroughly drained. This 
steeping process destroys any flavour the cherries may have. The best 
way to clean off the syrup is to put the cherries in a coarse wire sieve, 
then to lower this into a bucket of water for a few seconds, and only pass 



460 SLAB CAKES, SHORTBREAD, ETC. 

the hand quickly amongst tlie fruit; next to raise the sieve and give the 
fruit a good shaking, and lay out on a clean cloth to dry well before using. 
Always prepare them some hours before they are needed. It is often a 
saving of time and money to pay a good price for superior cherries instead 
of buying cheap brands containing an excessive amount of syrup, which 
increases the weight but is not value for cherry price. In selecting 
cherries for slab or pound cakes, choose those of a good bright colour, rich 
in flavour, small and fairly dry. 

The cake which may be termed heavy is possibly a cake which has been 
made from a mixing insufficiently beaten up, especially if the recipe is a 
rich one. It may have been beaten up by one who pours in 
the eggs too quickly, causing the mixture to curdle badly, 
then beating in flour to try to obtain a good batter. After reading an 
explanation as to how a mixture should be beaten up, the whole thing may 
appear very easj^ but a great deal of practice is required before one can 
become a good cake-maker. With a rich mixing especially, it is not always 
the workman who puts a great deal of labour into the beating who makes 
the best cake. In many instances heavy cake results from the operative 
not keeping all the ingredients well together in the body of the pan and 
beating the mixing thoroughly, though lightly, but doing just the reverse, 
and so breaking down what air-cells have formed in the batter, thereby 
causing it to become heavy. 

Eggs are used in cake-making both as an aerating agent and as one of 
the " wetting " materials. It is not always economy to buy cheap eggs, for 
such eggs are small, weak, colourless, and often very stale. Where 
a fairly good confectionery trade is done a reasonable price should 
be paid, and eggs obtained which will give satisfaction both in strength 
and colour. Unfortunately, sufficient attention is not always paid to this 
matter. Eight large eggs, if fresh, will give better results than twelve 
watery ones. Many confectioners formerly pickled eggs, when these were 
cheap, mostly in lime-water; some are doing it now with good results. 
Pickling Others prefer to put them in what is known as water glass, which 
of Eggs, jg much cleaner (see Vol. I, p. 279). The pickling process more 
or less weakens the whites, and for some mixings where the whites have 
to be whisked up perfectly stiff they are not always suitable, as these by 
being kept in stock have become watery, the change occurring with age 
causing the white to lose its viscous nature. As a commercial precaution, 
and as pickled eggs are entirely suitable for most purposes, it is well to 
buy them when cheap, obtaining them as fresh as possible, and to store 
them away carefully in the water glass — preferably in a cool cellar — in 
small or large tubs. While on the subject of eggs, it should be noted that 
there is an economical and a wasteful way of breaking them. The thumb 
should always be passed round the inside of the shell to remove the 
adhering white. Where very large quantities are used, a large tin should 
be kept with a perforated false bottom into which the broken shells can be 
thrown; then at the end of the day these shells are mashed up, and the 




< 
U 

< 

-J 
(/5 

PL 
O 

(/) 
LU 
Q- 
>- 



CAKE MANUFACTURE 



461 



whites tliey contain run through the false bottom into the pan underneath. 
The quantity of egg white thus obtained may amount to a quart out of 
about 300 eggs. 

The following recipes for small and large cakes are all mixtures con- 
stantly used in practice with the best results. Some of them are illus- 
trated on the Plate, Types of Slab Cakes. 



Madeira Cake at Is, per lb. 

No. 1. 2 lb. butter. No. 2. 

2 lb. 6 oz. castor sugar. 
2|- lb. eggs in shells. 
^ pt. milk. 
I oz. No. 1 powder. 
2'i lb. flour. 
Zest of lemon. 



Emp-ess Genoa at Is. per lb. 

2 lb. butter. 

2^ lb. sugar. 

2| lb. eggs in shells. 

2| lb. flour. 

6 oz. scone flour. 

^ pt. milk. 

1^ lb. shredded citron. 

l| oz. caraway seeds. 



Vol. L 



If lb. butter. 

l| lb. sugar. 

2| lb. eggs in shells. 

2^ lb. Vienna flour. 

1 oz. No. 2 powder. 

^ lb. marzipan paste. 



No. 3. 2| lb. butter. 


No. 4. 1^ lb. butter. 


2^ lb. sugar. 

3 lb. eggs in shells. 


6 oz. neutral fat. 
2 lb. 6 oz. sugar. 


2^ lb. Vienna flour. 


3i lb. eggs in shells. 


f lb. scone flour. 


3| lb. flour. 


Zest of lemon. 


2 oz. No. 1 powder. 




Zest of 2 oranges. 


Madeira Cake at 8d. per lb. 


Madeira Cake at 6d. per lb. 


IJ lb. butter. 


\l lb. butter. 


\ lb. neutral fat. 


\ lb. neutral fat. 


2^ lb. castor sugar. 
2 lb, eggs in shells. 
5 lb, Vienna flour. 


2^ lb. sugar. 
10 large eggs. 
5 lb. strong flour. 


1 qt. milk. 


1 qt. and h pt. milk. 


1^ oz. cream. 


2 oz. cream. 


f oz. soda. 


1 oz. soda. 


Essence of orange. 


Essence of orange. 


Plain Genoa at Is. 2d. per lb. 


Seed Genoa at Is. 2d. per lb. 


2 lb. butter. 


2 lb. butter. 


2 lb. sugar. 

2| lb. eggs in shells. 

2i lb. flour. 


2 lb. sugar. 
21 lb. eggs. 
2| lb. flour. 


\ oz. No. 1 powder. 
Vanilla flavouring. 


^ oz. No. 1 powder. 
2| oz. caraway seeds. 



Fruit Genoa at Is. pei' lb. 

3 lb. butter. 

\ lb. neutral fat. 

3 lb. Barbados sugar. 

4-J lb. eggs in shells. 

4| lb. flour. 

1 oz. No. 1 powder., 
3 lb. sultanas. 

2 lb. currants. 

1| lb. mixed shredded peel, 
f lb. chopped almonds. 
I gill rose water. 

S9 



462 



SLAB CAKES, SHORTBIiEAD, ETC. 



Cherry Genoa at Is. 2il. per lb. 


Sultana Genoa at Is. per lb. 




2| lb. butter. 


If lb. butter. 




2 1 lb. sugar. 


\ lb. neutral fat. 




2| lb. eggs in shells. 


2 lb. sugar. 




3 lb. flour. 


2i lb. eggs in shells. 




1 oz. No. 1 powder. 


Z\h. flour. 




2i lb. split cherries. 


2 lb. sultanas. 




1 lb. of shredded citron. 


1 lb. mixed peel. 




Liqueur glass of noyau. 


li oz. No. 1 powder. 




I lb, ground almonds. 


^ pt. milk. 
Essence of orange. 




Fruit Cake at 6d. per lb. {machine-made) 


Rice Slab at 6d. per lb. 




2 lb. butter. 


10 lb. flour. 




^\ lb. neutral fat. 


1 lb. ground rice. 




7 lb. sugar. 


8 lb. sugar. 




11 lb. flour. 


6| lb. neutral fat. 




3^ pt. milk. 


2*'qt. eggs. 




1 oz. cream. 


1| pt. milk. 




1^ oz. soda. 


l| oz. No. 1 powder. 




4 lb. sultanas. 


2 oz. glucose. 




9 lb. currants. 


\\ oz. salt. 




1^ lb. peel. 


Egg colour. 




46 eggs. 


Essence of lemon. 




h lb. chopped almonds. 






Egg-colour essence. 






Lemon Madeira at 3d. per lb. 


Fruit Slab at 3d. per lb. 




14 lb. soft high-grade flour. 


17| lb. flour. 




2 lb. ground rice. 


31 lb. fat. 




1 lb. corn flour. 


rib. oil. 




3i lb. neutral fat. 


9 lb. sugar. 




l| lb. oil. 


7 lb. currants. 




10 lb. castor sugar. 


1 lb. peel. 




1\ oz. salt. 


4| qt. milk. 




4 qt. and | pt. milk. 


1 lb. No. 1 powder. 




10 oz. glucose. 


3 oz. salt. 




6 oz. No. 1 powder. 


Egg colour and essence 


of rum. 



Egg colour. 
Essence of lemon. 

These two mixings of plain or fruit cake to be made up by the method 
given, where the oil, fat, and part of the flour is mixed together. 

Fruit Cake at Is. per lb. 
lb. butter. 



lb, castor sugar. 

lb. 10 oz. Vienna flour. 

lb. scone flour. 

lb. eggs in shells. 

lb. sultanas. 



1^ lb. mixed peel. 



Alexandra 


Cakes at Is. per lb. 




{Scale off U lb.) 


1 lb. 


butter. 


*lb. 


neutral fat. 


If lb 


. sugar. 


4 lb. 


flour. 


2^ lb 


. currants. 


n lb 


. sultanas. 


i lb. 


peel. 


12 eggs. 


1 qt. 


milk. 


3 oz. 


No. 1 powder. 



CAKE MANUFACTURE 



46a 



Sultana Sluh (machine-made) at 8d. 
per lb. 

11 lb. soft high-grade flour. 

4 lb. neutral fat. 

3 lb. butter. 

7^ lb. sultanas. 

3 lb. mixed peel. 

2i qt. eggs. 

1 qt. and ^ pt. milk. 

\h oz. No. 1 powder. 

6 1 lb. sugar. 

Little rum essence. 

Little egg colour. 



Cherry Slab (machine-made) at lOd. 
per lb. 

6| lb. sugar. 

3 lb. neutral fat. 

41 lb. butter. 

Hi lb. flour. 

7 lb. small cherries. 

3 lb. sultanas. 

2^ lb. shredded peel. 

2^ qt. eggs. 

1 qt. and | gill milk. 

1| oz. No. 1 powder. 

Essence of noyau. 

Little egg colour. 



Wedding Slab Cake at Is. 6d. pter lb. Rich Dundee Cake at Is. 2d. per lb. 



8 lb. butter, best. 

8 lb. Barbados or foot sugar. 

12 lb. eggs in shells. 

10 lb. flour. 

2 lb. ground almonds. 

2 lb. soft split almonds. 

20 lb. currants. 

10 lb. sultanas. 

8 lb. mixed peel. 

6 lb. cherries. 

Zest of 8 lemons. 

Zest of 8 oranges. 

1 oz. mixed spice. 



6 lb. butter. 

5^ lb. Barbados sugar. 

,6 lb. sultanas. 

8 lb. eggs in shells. 

1 lb. ground almonds. 

7 lb. flour. 

4 lb. mixed peel. 

2 lb. currants. 
Zest of 8 oranges. 

Split almonds, sugar, and white 
nonpareil on top. 



Cakes to be washed over while warm with orange juice made into syrup. 



Dundee Cake at lOd. per lb. 

6 lb. butter. 

6 lb. Barbados sugar. 

8 lb. flour. 

9 lb. eggs in shells. 
6 lb. currants. 

4 lb. sultanas. 
2 lb. mixed peel. 
Split almonds and sugar on 
top of each. 



Rich Christmas Cake at Is. 2d. per lb. 

10 lb. butter. 

10 lb. Barbados sugar. 

13 lb. soft flour. 

2 lb. scone flour. 

16 lb. eggs in shells, 

15 lb. currants. 

13 lb. sultanas. 

4 lb. stoned raisins. 

6 lb. mixed peel. 

2 lb. ground almonds. 

2 oz. mixed spice. 

Zest of 12 oranges. 

Zest of 12 lemons. 



Cheap Christmas Cake at 8d. per lb. 

2 lb. butter. 3 qt. milk. 

2 lb. neutral fat. 6 lb. eggs in shells. 

6 lb. pieces. 2 oz. spice. 

12 lb. flour. 12 lb. currants. 

2 lb. scone flour, 6 lb. sultanas. 

2 lb. orange peel. 



464 



THE OKNAMENTATION OF CAKES 



CHAPTER LXXXIII 

PIPING WITH EOYAL ICING 

Royal icing, or glace royal, is usually prepared with egg whites, acetic 
acid, ultramarine blue, and icing sugar. Egg whites used for this purpose 
give better results when separated from the yolks some hours before being 
Royal used. There are several substitutes for white of egg which may 
Icing. \)Q used, and some of these produce icing which dries whiter than 
that made with white of egg. This is an important point when the 
icing is to be used for show dummies, as in some cases these are kept 
for several years. 

The dull appearance and yellowish colour of icing is due in many 
Whv Icine is instances to insufficient beating and to its containing too 
sometimes Dull much sugar. The whites should be free from any particle 
and Ye ow. ^^ yolk, and all utensils should be scrupulously clean, as 
the least spot of grease is sufficient to make the icing heavy. Complaint 
Hardness of is often made as to royal icing drying hard and flinty. This 
Royal Icing, jg the one objection to its use, but if it is prepared in a light 
form, the sugar does not eat so hard as when imperfectly mixed. 

Large quantities are best prepared in a 
sponge machine, scalded out with hot water. 
Two-thirds of the sugar should be added to 
the whites (or substitute) in the machine. 
Preparing ^^'^ ^^^^ remainder stirred in 
Royal Icing, when transferred to the icing- 
bowl (fig. 73). To prepare a small quantity 
with half a pint of whites, about 3i- lb. of 
icing sugar is required. Place in the pan 
about two -thirds of the sugar, and mix 
thoroughly with the whites, add a pinch of Fig. tc— leing-bowi 

Sign of ^1"^ on the point of a knife, and 

Readiness, then add to this a few drops of acid. Beat this steadily until 
the sugar stands upright as the spoon or spatula (fig. 74) is raised from it. 
Stir in the remainder of the icing sugar, cover with a damp cloth or, 
better still, with a cover made of 
Plaster Cover piaster of Paris pre- / j 

for Bowl. viously soaked in water. V ^ 

As it is the usual practice to keep in rig. 74.-spatuia 

stock a pan of icing, the plaster top 

made to fix on the basin is very efficient to keep the icing moist without 

causing it to soften by absorbing moisture, as happens when a repeatedly 

damped cloth is used. Where a damp cloth is in use, this naturally dries 

in a few hours and requires re-wetting. The moisture from this rather 

damages the icing, and the cloth becomes sticky and dirty. 




PIPING WITH ROYAL ICING 465 

Anyone can make a plaster top (fio^. 75) for an icing-bowl. A ring is 
made with a piece of clay, or a piece of hoop iron, on a smooth tray, just 
a little larger than the bowl for which the cover is intended, and a round 
piece of clay is placed at one part inside the ring, so that when the mould 
is made there will be a deep notch in the edge, large enough to allow the 
spatula to pass through, so that the latter may remain in the icing while 
the lid is on. The ring should be made on a smooth flat tin previously 
greased. The basin itself should then be greased round the inside of its 
top edge, and turned over and supported on two or three small plugs of 
wood about h in. thick, and inside the ring previously made. The plaster, 
made into a soft paste so that it will run readily, is then Making Plaster 
poured in the outer part of the ring, until a slab of plaster Cover for Bowl, 
is formed about f in. thick. This will cover the edge of the upturned 
basin, and leave a gutter all round the inside 
of the plaster when it is set, which will fit 
on the top of the basin. This prevents the 
plaster lid from shifting or falling off. After 
the cast is made it is allowed to stand several 
hours until it sets quite hard; then the bowl 
and the ring are removed and the lid is ready 
for use, except that it may require to have 
the rough parts trimmed. 

The hardness of roj^al icing when it dries 
is a great disadvantage, and on this account 
it is becoming the custom more than ever to Fig; 75. -piaster Top for an icing-bowi 
cover birthday and Christmas cakes with 

fondant icing. This difficulty, however, may be overcome by adding to 
the icing, prepared with half a pint of whites, half a gill of to keep 
white glycerine. This keeps the inside of the sugar mellow, Icing Soft, 
while the outside is dry. Icing made in this way is preferable to fondant, 
especially when the cakes have to be stocked for several days. 

The use of acid in icing serves a twofold purpose. Mixed with the 
blue, it dissolves the colouring and prevents spots; but its principal use 
is to toughen the whites. When too much acid is used, it why Acid is 
gives the sugar a strong pungent odour, spoils the colour, ^^^^ '" Icing. 
and hardens the icing. For the purpose of carefully adding the acid, the 
use of a small dropping-bottle is recommended. This is safe and clean to 
use, and reduces the danger of adding more than is necessary. 

Blue is added to give the sugar a delicate bluish tint, which produces 
the impression of whiteness. If prepared without it, the icing dries a 
creamy colour. The dropping-bottle may also be used for why Blue 
adding the blue, which, for the purpose, is dissolved in a little ^^ used, 
weak acid. It is really better to add blue and acid together in the liquid 
state as a means of keeping the colour of different mixings all alike. 

Cakes or dummies to be iced over, generally receive two coatings of 
sugar. These should be spread on with a clean, bright palette knife, or 





466 THE ORNAMENTATION OF CAKES 

with a thin, firm lath of wood. It is a mistake to diy the suo^av in a hot 
Coating temperature, as it is liable to crack and to dry yellow. A warm 
the Cakes, cupboard should be used for drying, and the cake.s should be 
kept there till the surface only is dried. For the iced cake to be perfectly 
smooth on top and around the sides, an iron turntable (fig. 76) which is 
true and revolves easily should be used. Those made of wood are not so 
serviceable, especially for large cakes, and do not wear as well as the iron 
ones. 

When the cake is iced over as smooth as it can be with the palette 
knife, a quite smooth and glossy top may be obtained by softening some 
Making Smooth of the icing with a little white of eg^ to such a consistency 
Top for Cake. ^j^^^ j^ ^yj^ j^g^ j.^^ smooth on standing. It is not suffi- 
cient that the icing sugar and whites be mixed soft at first and then poured 

on the cake, as icing prepared in this way 
dries quite yellow. The icing must be beaten 
up firm in the usual way, as if for piping, 
then thinned down with whites as above 
described. The usual quantity of blue and 
acid is used. This icing will dry as white 
as the other parts of the cake. It is poured 
on to the centre of the cake, as nearly as 
possible in the proper quantity, then spread 
Fig. 76. -Turntable with a palette knife to about h in. from the 

margin of the cake all round, and the spread- 
ing completed so that the last | in. is very thin. If the knife marks are 
too visible, they will disappear if the cake is taken in both hands and 
Effects of Thin- swung up and down several times. Care must be taken 
ning too much, jjq^ ^q make the icing for this soft top too thin, or it con- 
tinues running over the edge, and also dries with a watery appearance. 

Very little written instruction can be given as to the method of piping 
with royal icing. For piping, the beaten sugar should be light and firm. 
Fine-cut tubes are best, those made for use with a paper cornet being most 
Obsolete suitable. There are many obsolete piping tubes in use which 
Tubes. should be avoided. Most of these are coarse -cut, and give a 
clumsy appearance to the finished work. Cut paper cornets will make 
a better design than many of the tubes referred to. In the hands of a 
skilful piper, cut paper bags are in fact quite sufficient tools to produce the 
most elaborate designs with perfect finish, but for this purpose stifi* paper 
is better than the thin glucose paper used for ordinary work with pipes. 
Use of Paper Some kinds of thick scroll work, leaves of all sorts that are 
Cornet only, made at one operation, and rustic printing or writing are 
better done with paper only than with pipes. When, however, it is neces- 
sary to have sugar lines quite round, or when the work has to be veiy fine, 
it is better to use pipes (fig. 77). 

Very short notice is at times given for ornamenting cakes and other, 
articles. These are mostly extras to the ordinary day's shop list, and are 



PIPING WITH ROYAL ICING 



467 



yet; required with a neat finish. The general public will not pay for work 
which takes a long time to prepare, no matter how carefully finished. 
This should be remembered by the youth who is anxious to become thor- 
oughly practical. Constant practice, aided by a fair knowledge of freehand 
drawing, is required to master the art of piping. 

Piping on greased or waxed pieces of tin or zinc is now much practised 
for decorating show cakes. This is tedious work, and requires care and 
patience, especially as many of the fragile pieces get broken Piping on Pre- 
as they are taken from the waxed paper on which they are pa^ed Tin, &c. 
piped. The demand for sugar centre pieces to serve as ornaments for the 











Fig. 77.— Piping Tubes 

1, 2. Plain writing tuljes. 3. Plain round tube. 4, 5. Narcissus and mai^guerite tubes. 6. Marguerite 
and narcissus petal tubes. 7, 8. Star tubes. 9, 10. Shell tubes. 11. Seal tulie. 12. Border tube. 
13. Ribbon tube. H. Plain rose petal tube. 15. Curled rose petal tube. 



shop window, or for table decoration, is not now so great as it w^as some 
twenty years ago, as articles of silver and other metals have superseded them. 

In preparing piped lace work, in pieces to be afterwards attached to the 
cake, it is better when possible to use waxed paper, as the use of 
sugar, when carefully dried, may be removed from this. Waxed Paper. 

Various sugar flowers may be purchased for decorating iced piped cakes, 
but as many of these have a coarse appearance, it is better for the Flower 
confectioner to learn to pipe them himself. With practice the art P'P'ng. 
may be readily acquired, as the variety of flowers needed for general 



468 THE ORNAMENTATION OF CAKES 

work is not large. Roses are among the popular flowers for decoration, 
and these may be moulded with marzipan or gum paste, or piped with 
glace royal. Rose nails, as in fig. 78, or round flat pieces of cork with 
ordinary nails driven through them, may be used. These are covered 
with a thin layer of fat, and the centre piped on with sugar from a 
plain tube. Stand the nails upright in any firm soft substance, and 
when the sugar has set firm begin to pipe on the leaves. To form the 
rose petals a small plain or bent tube is used, as shown in fig. 77, Nos. 
Rose Petal Tube 14, 15. When No. 15 is used with carefully prepared 
with Curled Edge, icing it forms a petal with a curled edge. By this means 
a graceful-looking flower may be made, and is much better than those 
that are moulded. To finish the rose, hold the nail between the fingers 
of the left hand, and pipe on to the dry pyramid of 
sugar a curl of icing, bringing it up to the top and 
so making the centre hollow. While this is being 
done, twist the nail round between the fingers and 
pipe on three small petals, bringing them almost over 
the centre. Stand the nail to rest again, and proceed 
in the same way with the other roses, as it saves time 
to pipe a number at once. By the time the centre 
of the last is finished, the first will be ready for 
receiving the other petals, the object being to make 
Fig. 78.— Rose Nail them appear as natural as possible. When using the 

plain tube for these flowers the petals may be slightly 
curled or crimped while the sugar is drying, using the back of a small 
knife for the purpose. 

Some nicely coloured roses may be made by adding two coloured mix- 
tures of icing together in the paper cornet. To secure the best results in 
Two-colour Petals pipiiig roses, it is advisable, when possible, to obtain a 
on Flowers. natural flower from which to copy. Mixtures of white 

and pink, or yellow and pink, used in small quantities, blend well together, 
without giving the flowers an over-coloured appearance. Small rosebuds 
(moss roses) are made with red centres shaped like an olive, 
with green sugar leaves piped on the outside. To colour the 
roses, a dark-red liquid colour should not be used. When the flowers are 
dry, cover with powdered carmine spread on with a small camel's-hair brush. 
Another popular flower which may be piped with royal icing is the 
narcissus. That known as the jiheasant-eyed contains six white petals, 
with a yellow centre. In a sugar flower the top of this is 
coloured with liquid carmine. With a plain rose tube pipe the 
six leaves on top of a greased rose nail. The motion of the hand in piping 
this flower is first outward and then inward. The thick side of the tube 
should partly lie on the rose nail, and the latter is twisted between the 
fingers while the petals are being piped. Each petal should slightly over- 
lap the next one, and by twisting the hand when bringing the tube back 
to the centre of the nail, one side of each petal will be partly raised above 



PIPING WITH KOYAL ICING 



469 



the other. When the sugar is dry, pipe on the centre ring with yellow 

icing, and colour the rim with liquid carmine spread on with a camel's- 

hair brush. To make a variety of these flowers,. the petals may be piped 

on with pale yellow sugar, and the centre ring made with sugar coloured 

with green and yellow, piped with a very small rose tube. While piping 

the centre give it a crimped appearance by slightly twisting the hand. 

Pipe three small pieces of the same colour of sugar in the centre, and colour 

the edge with a faint streak of pink. 

Amongst the small flowers suitable for piping, the marguerite is useful. 

A small tube (lig. 77, No. 6) is required for forming the petals, which may 

be piped on to small greased rose nails, or to a small piece of .. 

, ., ., > r. • 1 1 1 11 Marguerites, 

paper laid on the nail and removed as soon as nnished ; by the 

latter method one nail will be sufiicient for a large number of flowers. 

Adopt the same method of using the tube as for the narcissus when forming 

the flower petals, only these must be 

made flat and narrow. Finish the 

centres with a bulb of sugar, and cover 






Fig. 79.— Templets for Cake Tops 



this with flne granulated sugar or with piped dots of icing. These small 

flowers belong to the daisy family, of which there are many varieties, 

and several are useful for copying. 

Sugar leaves prepared ofl" the cake are best laid out on greased or waxed 

paper and slightly curled over a piece of tin or zinc. Rose leaves, or others 

in which the veins show clearl3% should be piped over with a Piping Sugar 

very flne tube of icing. By piping the leaves off the article Leaves. 

to be decorated, they may be made thin, and very nearly a correct copy of 

the natural leaves. Some rose leaves, or those of other flowers, may be 

prepared by using a linen or silver papered leaf, covered Moulding 

slightly with wax or lard. This leaf is masked with sugar. ^°^^ Leaves. 

When the sugar is dry it may be removed from the leaf, and will bear the 

impression of the veins. This extra work is required only „. . . 

.,.—,. . "^ Piping Leaves 

on special occasions. To pipe leaves directly on the cake, or on Cake with 

any article to he decorated, nothing will give more satis- ''^P^'" ^^S- 

faction than a cut paper cornet, which is preferable to a tube, and with 

skill very natural -looking leaves can thus be produced. 



Vol. I. 



60 



470 



THE ORNAMENTATION OF CAKES 




Fig. 80.— Piped Star 



For small wedding, birthday, and other decorated cakes, it is an advan- 
tage to have at hand a number of designs cut out of cardboard, tin, or zinc. 
Templets for from which the design on the cake may be marked 

Cake-top Designs, (fig 79), These may, in the first place, be cut out from 
a piece of folded paper. For a birthday cake the templet should be laid 
upon the centre of the cake, and the design outlined with fine piping, 
Makinc forming a hollow which may 
Fondant then be tilled in with white or 
Centres, coloured fondant. The fondant 
will dry while the other part of the cake 
is being decorated. This will then be 
ready to receive the piped inscription and 
other light decoration with a tine tube. 
When no inscription is required on the 
cake, arjd an eight-pointed star is out- 
lined, till in with chocolate fondant, and 
. pipe over with alternate 

lines of pink and white 
sugar. The centre of the star shown 
(tig. 80) is only partly finished. The 
strings of sugar are piped to each point with white sugar, and the borders 
decorated by piping on small curled loops, alternating with bulbs of pink 
icing, with small silver dragees. 

It is necessary, when piping the strings of sugar on this or other designs, 
to hold the tube fully half an inch above the cake. This will give a rounded 
How to keep appearance to the lines and a better finish. The same prin- 
Sugar Strings ciple applies when decorating the borders or sides of a cake. 
°"" ■ The work then is more difficult, but the tube should not be 

pressed close upon the cake, except 
when an outline of a design is being 
made, which will be piped over. For 
some of this fine work the paper 
cornet (fig. 81) only may be used. 
This should be of a stiflf paper, not 
How to cut liable to shred at the 
Paper Bag. point. Another detail 
which should not be lost sight of is 
the folding and cutting of the cornet. 
The paper should be closely folded, 
filled with sugar, closed over, and 

the point cut off* with a clean and straight cut so that the strings of 
sugar may be forced out round. 

The outline of a simple scroll in two stages is shown in fig. 82. It is 
prepared in the first stage by piping on the cake a line of looped curves, 
and working a scroll in the centre of each. The point of the scroll is raised , 
with a thick line of icing, and finished with the fine tube. Two poinlii 




Fig. 81.— Shape cut for Paper Cornet 




PIPED SCROLLS FOR CAKE SIDES AND PANELS 



PIPING WITH ROYAL ICING 



471 



must be carefully attended to when preparing this design. First, the looped 
lines and the scrolls must be carefully arranged on the curve, no part 




Fig. 82.— A Simple Scroll in Two Stages 



being a straight line; then the overpiping of one line on the top of 
another must be done with very great care or the work looks clumsy. 
A rough sketch (tig. 83) is here given showing the progi-ess, in five stages, 




Fig. 83.— Hollow Stem Piping 



of hollow stem piping, which, when piped on the side of a cake, may be 
finished with sprays of flowers. Here, again, the curved Hollow 
loops are used for the groundwork, and the hollow stems ^*®"^ Design, 
formed by piping one upon another fine lines of icing, and on the centre 
of each is laid a row of graduated bulbs. 




°ooo° 



Fig. 84. — Piped Loops or Festoons 



Upon the side of a cake some very neat designs may be piped, having 
for the groundwork a series of sugar loops or festoons as shown in fig. 84. 
Three loop lines of twisted sugar are piped with a plain tube, and outlined 
with fine curved strings and sugar bulbs in various sizes. 



472 THE OENAMENTATION OF CAKES 

Show cakes or dummies, placed on bevelled boards, are more easily 
decorated, so that the design has a better-balanced appearance, than if the 
Bevelled Boards cakes are fixed on perfectly flat boards. The latter break 
for Cakes. ^j^g continuity of the design. Fig. 85 shows a design in 

four stages, which, when neatly finished, has a showy appearance. The 
design is easy to follow. A small rose tube is used for the bottom and a 
medium-sized plain tube for the top. Some neat designs for sides of cakes 




Fif?. 85.— Stages in a Piped Design 

are given on the plate entitled Piped Scrolls for Cake Sides axd 
Panels. 

As an expedient to secure speed and accuracy in piping designs on the 
sides of cakes, or, for that matter, on their tops, stencils of the designs may 
Stencils for Cake be prepared with stiff" paper, or can be ordered from a 
Sides and Tops, stencil-cutter. These should be made with thin copper, 
so as to be quite flexible. The stencil is bent round the side of the cake, 
which has been already iced over and dried; then some ordinary stiff" icing 
is spread on top of the stencil. The icing passes through the perforations 
on to the cake, and when the stencil is removed the groundwork of the 
design is in place, ready for piping on in the usual way. Such a stencil is 
comparatively cheap, and saves much time by obviating the necessity of 
designing and measuring, which are the most troublesome parts of the work 
on the sides of cakes. 



THE 
QRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

34 AND 35 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, LONDON, W.C. 
J^ J^ J0^ J^ 

The Horse 

ITS TREATMENT IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, with a Complete Guide to 
Breeding, Training, and Management. Edited by Professor J. Wortley Axe, 
M.R.C.V.S., ex- President of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons; late Lecturer at the 
Royal Veterinary College, and at the Agricultural Colleges of Downton and Wye; Chief 
Veterinary Inspector to the Surrey County Council ; Consulting Veterinary Surgeon to the 
British Dairy Farmers' Association; author of "The Mare and Foal", "Abortion in Cattle", 
"Anthrax in Farm Stock", "Examination of Horses as to Soundness", "Glanders, its 
Spread and Suppression ", " Swine Fever ", " Lithotomy, or the Removal of Stone from the 
Bladder of the Horse". Complete in 9 handsomely-bound divisional- volumes. 

The work is divided into over twenty main sections, including Exterior of the Horse, Conformation 
and its Defects, Varieties of the Horse, Principles of Breeding and Management of the Breeding Stud, 
Horse Training for the Course, the Hunt, and the Show; Stable Management and Stable Vices; Exa- 
mination as to Soundness, &c. Each section is virtually a book in itself, dealing exhaustively with 
every phase of its subject, the information in each case being brought down to the month of publication. 

To the owner or responsible custodian of any horse or pony it is absolutely indispensable. 

The New Popular Encyclopedia 

A LIBRARY IN ITSELF. A General Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, Literature, Biography, 
History, The Practical Arts and Handicrafts, Law, Medicine, Household Matters, Education, 
Music, Games, and Sports. Edited by Charles Annandale, m.a., ll.d.. Editor of 
Ogilvie's " Imperial Dictionary of the English Language". Profusely illustrated. Complete 
in 14 handsome volumes, super- royal octavo, bound in cloth. 

Special attention has been paid to questions that have recently arisen and come under public notice, 
and the latest inventions and discoveries, whether in the fields of science, the arts, or travel, have suitable 
articles devoted to them. In carrying out the work of revision the most recent publications, British and 
foreign, have been consulted; the latest statistics of population, trade, &c., have been sought for; and 
all the most reliable sources of information have been drawn upon. 

Ogilvie's Imperial Dictionary 

OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. New Edition, revised and greatly augmented. 
A Complete Encyclopedic Lexicon, Literary, Etymological, Scientific, Technological, and 
Pronouncing. Edited by CHARLES Annandale, m.a., ll.d. Illustrated by above 3000 
engravings on wood, besides a splendid series of full -page plates, many of which are 
coloured. Issued in 8 divisional-volumes of a handy size for reference, bound in cloth, 
with a fine design on side; also in 4 volumes, Roxburghe library style. 

The reception accorded by the press and the public to this new edition of the Imperial Dictionary 
shows that it will continue fully to maintain its established position as a standard lexicon of the English 
language. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 

1 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 



Practical CoaI=mining 

By Leading Experts in Mining and Engineering under the Editorship of W. S. Boulton, 
B.Sc, F.G.S., Associate of the Royal College of Science,, Member of the South Wales Institute 
of Engineers, Professor of Geology at University College, Cardiff. To be issued in 6 super- 
royal octavo divisional-volumes, bound in cloth. 

This book is virtually an encyclopedia of coal-mining. The geology of the coal-measures, the 
composition and analysis of coal, trial borings and shaft-sinking, blasting, coal-cutting, methods of 
working, timbering, haulage, winding, pumping, ventilation, transmission of power, mine-surveying, 
lighting, explosions, mineral leases, preparation of coal for market, the economics of coal, and relief and 
exploratory work in case of accidents — such is the wide range of its subject-matter. 

Practical Coal-mining is thus a practical work for all concerned in coal-mining. 

The book is profusely illustrated with diagrams. Machinery, structures, implements, details of all 
kinds are carefully pictured. There are also some excellent coloured drawings and black-and-white 
plates of interesting scenes and details connected with coal and coal-working in some of its phases. The 
plates include maps of the great British coal-fields. 



The Gardener's Assistant 

A Practical and Scientific Exposition of the Art of Gardening in all its Branches. By 
Robert Thompson, of the Royal Horticultural Society's Gardens, Chiswick, &c. New 
Edition, revised and entirely remodelled under the general Editorship of William Watson, 
F.R.H.S., Curator, Royal Gardens, Kew, with contributions by many eminent specialists. 
W^ith many illustrations in colour and black-and-white. In 6 divisional-volumes, imperial 
octavo, bound in cloth ; also in 2 handsome volumes, Roxburghe library binding. 

As the book covers the whole subject, from the laying out of the ground to the packing of flowers, 
fruits, and vegetables for market, it should be indispensable to gardeners. To country gentlemen it will 
be of the greatest value in giving them an all-round view of both the principles and the practice ol 
modern gardening. For all who cultivate flowers, whether in gardens, under glass, or in window- 
boxes, the book will be invaluable. The subject of Floral Decoration, too, receives particular attention. 

Everything has been done that could be done to elucidate the text by the free use of illustrations. 
These represent recent gardening appliances, houses, heating apparatus, flowers, trees, &c. 



The Household Physician 

A Family Guide to the Preservation of Health and the Domestic Treatment of Illness. 
By J. M'Gregor-Robertson, m.a., m.B., cm. (Honours), f.f.p.s.G., f.r.S. (Ed.), formerly 
Lecturer on Physiology in the University of Glasgow. New Edition, ^907' The work is 
issued alternatively in 4 half-volumes, cloth, or in 2 volumes, Roxburghe library binding. 

The aim of The Household Physician is to supply, in as plain language as possible, some know- 
ledge of what Science has to say as to the body which we inhabit, and also to give reliable assistance in 
the domestic treatment of simple ailments. It deals with health, human anatomy, and physiology, 
and then examines the main ailments, their nature and treatment. Much space is given to the subject 
of children's ailments, and to the care of children both in health and disease. Other subjects dealt 
with are general hygiene — embracing foods and feeding, clothing, exercise, climate, health resorts, house 
sanitation— medicines and drugs, first aid, minor surgery, treatment of accidents, sick nursing, 
invalid cookery, and, indeed, all the details that appertain to the care of the sick and the duties of 
the nurse. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 



The World of To=Day 

A Survey of the Lands and Peoples of the Globe as seen in Travel and Commerce. By 
A. R. Hope Moncrieff. Complete in 6 imperial octavo volumes. 

This is a new work which, within comparatively narrow compass, presents a comprehensive suirvey 
of all the countries of the world. 

Every volume contains much material of the greatest interest at the present time. Thus, in the first 
volume, which deals with Asia, the reader will learn much about China ; of the strange Tibetans, with 
their mechanical religion and their repugnance to foreigners ; of the vast empire which Russia has built 
up in central and northern Asia; of the "hermit kingdom" of Korea; of Manchuria; of the vast 
Indian Empire, with its great variety of races, languages, and religions ; and of Japan, which has suo 
cessfuUy claimed a place among the Great Powers. 

There are numerous illustrations in half-tone and four beautiful coloured plates in each volume. 
Each volume also contains a series of carefully-prepared maps in the text, besides large coloured maps. 

By means of a full, well-arranged index the work will be found to supply in large measure the pur- 
poses of a gazetteer. In fact it is at once a description of the world, a dictionary of commerce, an 
atlas, and a gazetteer. 

The British Empire 

An Account of its Origin, Progress, and Present Position. With full descriptions of Canada, 
Australia, SoiKh Africa, India, and other Colonies and Dependencies. By Edgar Sander- 
son, M.A. (Cantab.), Author of "History of the British Empire", "Outlines of the World's 
History", &c., &c. Beautifully illustrated throughout with full-page drawings by the most 
eminent artists. New Edition. Greatly enlarged, and brought down to the reign of King 
Edward VII. In 6 volumes, cloth elegant, olivine edges. 

The reader will find a full account of every colony, possession, and dependency where flies the 
Union Jack. The wonderful tale of our progress in the United Kingdom receives full justice and is not 
less interesting, embracing as it does the civil and military history of our country, the reform legislation, 
the foreign policy >f Britain, and the chequered history of Ireland. While the narrative deals, for the 
most part, with the nineteenth century, a thoroughly interesting account of Great Britain in the 
eighteenth century is also presented. 

The riodern Plumber and 
Sanitary Engineer 

Treating of Plumbing, Sanitary Work, Ventilation, Heating (Electric and Other), Hot- 
Water Services, Gas-Fitting, Electric Lighting, Bell-Work, Glazing, &c. By sixteen 
specialist contributors under the Editorship of G. Lister Sutcliffe, a.r.i.b.a., m.r.s.1., 
Editor of " The Principles and Practice of Modern House Construction ", &c. With 
Appendices of Tables, Memoranda, Mensuration, &c. To be completed in 6 super-royal 
octavo volumes, bound in cloth. 

This is a work for the master plumber, the operative pl\unber, the plumber-electrician, and, in 
fact, for all who are in any way practically concerned in plumbing, sanitaiy engineering, or any of the 
associated trades ; for all who have to do with the building, sanitation, ventilation, lighting, and heating 
of houses and other edifices. 

The illustrations are a special feature. They include diagrams, half-tone pictures, full-page and 
folding plates, many of the last in colour. There are upwards of 40 plates and iioo illustrations in 
the text. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



4 THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

The Practical Grocer 

A Manual and Guide for the Grocer, the Provision Merchant, and Allied Trades. By 
W. H. SiMMONDS. With contributions by specialists, trade experts, and members of the 
trades. Illustrated by a series of separately printed plates. Complete in 4 volumes, cloth. 
Grocery says : " That most excellent manual ... a most useful work ". 

riodern Electric Practice 

Prepared under the Editorship of Magnus Maclean, m.a., d.sc, Professor of Electrical 
Engineering in the Glasgow and West of Scotland Technical College, assisted by over thirty 
specialists. Copiously illustrated. Complete in 6 volumes, super-royal octavo, cloth. 
A new and thoroughly up-to-date practical work written by practical men for practical men. 

Modern House=Construction 

Including Water-supply and Fittings, Sanitary Fittinp^s and Plumbing, Drainage and Sewage- 
disposal, Warming, Ventilation, Lighting, Sanitary Aspects of Furniture and Decoration, 
Climate and Situation, Stables, Sanitary Law, &c. Edited by G. Lister Sutcliffe, 
Architect, Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects, Member of the Sanitary 
Institute. Author of "Concrete: Its Nature and Uses", &c. The Work is printed on 
fine paper, demy quarto, and issued in Six Divisions, strongly bound in cloth ; also in two 
volumes, Eoxburghe binding. 

Modern House-Construction is accurate, thorough, and up-to-date, and therefore invaluable to 
professional men engaged in house-construction or house-inspection, including Architects, Civil Engineers 
Sanitary Engineers, Doctors, Medical Officers, Sanitary Inspectors, Building Inspectors, &c. 

The Modern Carpenter, Joiner, 
and Cabinetmaker 

A Complete Guide to Current Practice. Prepared under the editorship of G. Lister 
Sutcliffe, Architect, Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects, Member of 
the Sanitary Institute, Editor and Joint-Author of "Modern House-Construction", Author 
of "Concrete: Its Nature and Uses", &c. With Contributions from many Specialists. 
Illustrated by a Series of about a hundred separately-printed Plates and a thousand Figures 
in the Text. Complete in 8 divisional-volumes, super-royal quarto, bound in cloth. 

The Modern Carpenter comprises no fewer th n sixteen sections. Within the eight divisional- 
volumes of the work we have a treatise on every branch of the craft, distinguished by four outstanding 
qualities. It is (i) complete, (2) clear, (3) practical, and (4) up-to-date. 

The Book of the Home 

An Encyclopedia of all Matters Relating to the House and Household Management. 
Produced under the general Editorship of H. C. Davidson, assisted by over one hundred 
specialists. Copiously illustrated by coloured and black-and-white plates and engravings in 
the text. In 4 volumes, cloth, with artistic design ; also in 8 divisional-volumes, cloth. 
An indispensable ally to the novice and a valuable work of reference to the more experienced. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 5 

Works of Shakespeare 

Edited by Sir Henry Irving and Frank A. Marshall, with a general Introduction and 

Life of Shakespeare, by Prof. Edward Dowden, and many hundred illustrations from 

drawings by GORDON Browne and other artists. In 14 volumes beautifully bound in cloth. 

The ideal edition of Shakespeare, embodying the result of everything of value done before in the text 

and illustration of our great poet. 

The Qresham Library of 
Standard Fiction 

A Series of 21 Standard Works of Fiction by the most eminent authors, each volume illus- 
trated with six full-page drawings, many containing a biographical sketch of the author and 
a critical estimate of his work. The set of 21 volumes bound in leather back are : Barchester 
Towers, Scenes of Clerical Life, Hajji Baba, After Dark, Ormond, Jane Eyre, The New- 
comes, Westward Ho!, The Caxtons, David Copperfield, The Heart of Midlothian, Pride 
and Prejudice, Harry Lorrequer, The Scarlet Letter and The House with the Seven Gables, 
Lavengro, Cranford and Mary Barton, Framley Parsonage, Tom Burke of "Ours", The 
Mill on the Floss, John Halifax, Gentleman, Coningsby. 

Charles Dickens' Novels 

The Imperial Edition of the Novels of Charles Dickens, in 16 volumes, large square octavo, 
cloth extra, gilt top. The following is a list of the volumes in the Imperial Edition : The 
Pickwick Papers, Oliver Twist, Nicholas Nickleby, Martin Chuzzlewit, The Old Curiosity 
Shop, Barnaby Rudge, David Copperfield, Bleak House, Sketches by Boz, Christmas Books, 
Dombey and Son, Little Dorrit, A Tale of Two Cities, Great Expectations, Hard Times and 
Master Humphrey's Clock; Charles Dickens: A Critical Study, by George GiSSlNG. 

The Choice Library of the 
English Poets 

With Introductions by Alice Meynell, Arthur Symons, Owen Seaman, Alfred Austin, 
and other eminent writers. Beautifully bound in cloth, with frontispiece photogravures, 
24 volumes, in neat box. The volumes are as follows : — Tennyson, Christina Rossetti, 
Milton, Wordsworth, E. B. Browning, Robert Browning, Byron, Shelley, Keats, Burns, 
Coleridge, Cowper, Calverley, Herrick, Longfellow, Whittier, In Memoriam {Tennysoi£s\ 
Arnold, Keble {The Christian Year), Keble {The Psalter in English Verse), Herbert, Six- 
teenth Century Anthology, Seventeenth Century Anthology, Eighteenth Century Anthology. 

The Warwick Library of English 
Literature 

Prepared under the general Editorship of C. H. Herford, Litt.D., Professor of English 
Literature in the Victoria University of Manchester. In 8 uniform volumes. The volumes 
are as follows: — English Lyrics, English Pastorals, English Masques, English Tales in 
Verse, English Satires, English Literary Criticism, English Essays, English Historians. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



6 THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

The Brontes' Works 

The Complete Works of Charlotte Bronte and her Sisters. With many illustrations and 
portraits. This series includes Jane Eyre, Villette, Shirley, The Professor, and Emma, by 
Charlotte Bronte ; Wuthering Heights, by Emily Bronte ; and Agnes Grey, and The Tenant 
of Wildfell Hall, by Anne Bronte; also the Poems of the three sisters, and Mrs. Gaskell's 
Life of Charlotte Bronte. Complete in 7 volumes, limp lambskin. 

Casquet of Literature 

A Selection in Prose and Poetry from the best authors. Edited, with biographical and 
literary notes, by Charles Gibbon, author of "Robin Gray", and Miss MARY CHRISTIE. 
In 6 volumes, handsomely bound in cloth. 

The Cabinet of Irish Literature 

Selections from the Works of the chief Poets, Orators, and Prose Writers of Ireland. Edited 
by Charles A. Reade, f.r.h.s., and Katharine Tynan Hinkson. In 4 volumes, 
super-royal octavo, cloth extra, gilt edges. 

In the Land of Burns 

Select Illustrations of the Life and Writings of the Scottish Poet from Paintings by D. O. 
Hill, r.S.a. 24 Engravings, carefully printed on fine paper, imperial 4to (size 15x11 inches), 
accompanied by Descriptive Notes, indicating their association with the life and works of the 
poet. Issued in an artistic portfolio. 

A Popular Family Commentary 

ON THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Rev. Albert Barnes, author of " The Life of the 
Apostle Paul ", " The Way of Salvation ", " The Evidences of Christianity in the Nineteenth 
Century", " Notes" on the Book of Job, on the Psalms, and on the Prophecies of Isaiah and 
Daniel. With 70 finely-engraved illustrations, and a valuable series of maps and plans. 
Complete in 1 1 beautifully-bound volumes in handsome case. 

Encyclopaedia Biblica 

A Dictionary of the Bible. Edited by the Rev. T. K. Cheyne, m.a., d.d.. Oriel Professor 
of the Interpretation of Holy Scripture at Oxford, and formerly Fellow of Balliol College, 
Canon of Rochester ; and J. SUTHERLAND Black, m.a., ll.d., formerly assistant Editor of 
" The Encyclopaedia Britannica ". Assisted by many contributors in Great Britain, Europe, 
and America. Complete in 4 volumes, cloth and half-leather. 

The Gresham Dictionary 

The Gresham Dictionary of the English Language, founded on the great works of NOAH 
Webster, ll.d., and John Ogilvie, ll.d. With 1200 illustrations. In i volume, super- 
royal octavo cloth. Also supplied in Roxburghe binding (library style). 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 7 

The Modern Cyclopedia 

OF UNIVERSAL INFORMATION. Edited by Charles Annandale, m.a., ll.d., 
Editor of " Ogilvie's Imperial Dictionary", &c. New Edition, 1907. With many pictorial 
illustrations and a series of maps and plates. Complete in 8 volumes, square octavo, bound 
in rich cloth, coloured edges, or in fine leather binding (library style). 

The Natural History of Plants 

Their Forms, Growth, Reproduction, and Distribution. From the German of the Late 
Anton Kerner Von Marilaun, Professor of Botany in the University of Vienna. By F. 
W. Oliver, m.a., d.Sc, Quain Professor of Botany in University College, London, with 
the assistance of Lady BuSK, B.Sc., and Mrs. M. F. Macdonald, b.So. With about 2000 
original woodcut illustrations. Complete in 2 handsome volumes. 

The Natural History of Animals 

The Animal Life of the World in its various Aspects and Relations, By J. R, Ainsworth 
Davis, m.a., of Trinity College, Cambridge, and of University College, Aberystwyth. Pro- 
fusely illustrated with full-page colour and black-and-white plates, and engravings in the text 
by eminent animal airtists. Complete in 8 half-volumes or in 4 volumes, cloth extra. 

Comprehensive History of England 

Civil and Military, Religious, Intellectual, and Social. From the Earliest Period to the 
Present Time. Illustrated by above iioo engravings in the text, 65 finely engraved plates, 
and many excellent separate page engravings, including portraits of sovereigns, pictures of 
important historical events, &c. Complete in 4 volumes, super-royal octavo, cloth. 

A History of the Scottish People 

From the Earliest to the Latest Times. By Rev. Thomas Thomson and Charles 
Annandale, m.a., ll.d. Illustrated by W. H. Margetson, Walter Paget, Gordon 
Browne, and other eminent artists. In 6 divisional-volumes, cloth elegant. 

Gladstone and his Contemporaries 

Seventy Years of Social and Political Progress. By Thomas Archer, f.r.h.s. Revised 
and extended to date by Alfred Thomas Story, author of "Life of John Linnell", "The 
Building of the Empire", &c. Illustrated. In 4 volumes, super-royal octavo, cloth. 

Queen Victoria 

HER LIFE AND REIGN. By Thomas Archer, f.r.h.s., author of "Sixty Years of 
Social and Political Progress", &c., and Amelia Hutchison Stirling, m.a., Examiner 
in History in the University of St. Andrews, author of "Torch-Bearers of History", &c. 
With many highly-finished illustrations. In 4 volumes, cloth extra. 

Mr. Chamberlain 

His Life and Public Career. By S. H. Jeyes. Profusely illustrated with portraits, views, 
and illustrations of notable events. Complete in 2 volumes, cloth, gilt top. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



8 THE GRESHAM PUBLISHING COMPANY 

The Home Teacher 

A Cyclopedia of Self-Instruction. Edited by Samuel Neil, author of " Culture and Self- 
Culture", "Art of Reasoning"; Editor of "The Cyclopedia of History", &c., &c. Copiously 
illustrated with full-page plates and engravings in the text. In 5 volumes, cloth. 

Modern Practical Farriery 

A Complete Guide to all that Relates to the Horse. Its History, Varieties, and Uses — 
Breaking, Training, Feeding, Stabling, and Grooming — How to Buy, Keep, and Treat a 
Horse in Health and Disease, &c., &c., forming a complete system of the Veterinary 
Art as at present practised at the Royal Veterinary College, London. By W. J. MiLES, 
M.R.CV.S.L. Including Practical Treatises on " Cattle : their Management in Dairy, Field, 
and Stall", by John Walker; "Pasture-Grasses and Forage Plants", by Samuel P. 
Preston; "The Practice of Sheep Farming", by Charles Scott ; "The Diseases and 
Treatment of Cattle, Sheep, and Pigs", by J. I. Lupton, m.r.c.v.s.l. In i volume, bound 
in cloth, or in half-calf 

The Modern Practical Farriery has long been accepted as the standard work on its subject. 

Agriculturist's Calculator 

A Series of 46 Tables for Land Measuring, Draining, Manuring, Planting, Weight of Hay 
and Cattle by Measurement, Building, &c., forming a complete ready-reckoner for all 
engaged in agriculture. Sixteenth thousand. Bound. 

Engineers' flanual 

Of Rules, Tables, and Data, based on the most recent investigations. By DANIEL Kinnear 
Clark, author of " Railway Machinery", &c. With many diagrams. Fifth edition. Large 
octavo (1000 pp.), cloth, or half-morocco. 

Peddie's Practical fleasurer 

Or, TRADESMEN'S AND WOOD MERCHANTS' ASSISTANT. Tables for the use 
of Wood Merchants, Builders, Carpenters, &c. With a Treatise on the Mensuration of 
Superficies and Solids. Illustrated with diagrams and examples. Foolscap octavo, bound. 

The Practical Decorator 

AND ORNAMENTIST. For the use of Architects, Painters, Decorators, and Designers. 
Containing 100 plates in colours and gold. With Descriptive Notices, and an Introductory 
Essay on Artistic and Practical Decoration. By GEORGE Ashdown Audsley, ll.d., 
F.R.LB.A., author of several works on architecture and decorative art, and Maurice 
Ashdown Audsley, Architect. FoHo (16J by 11 J inches). In cloth portfolio, complete. 

Decoration and Ornament 

Suggestions in Design. A Comprehensive Series of Original Sketches in Various Styles 
of Ornament, arranged for application in the Decorative and Constructive Arts. By JOHN 
Leighton, F.S.a, Accompanied by Descriptive and Historical Letterpress, with above 
300 explanatory engravings, by J. K. Colling, f.r.i.b.a. One volume. 

Prospectus of any Book post free 



^r-.t-V 



mm 



