



hihi 







BtsAi (Holkgi of Asrlrulturf 
At (Hamell ISntttprBttg 

lltl)ara. N. f . 

iHtbrarg 



tTnivecslt^ bulletins 



Series XII. Number 23 



OnSvBrsity Bulletins Published Quarterly by the University of Nebraska at the University 

of Nebraska. Entered at the Post-Office at Lincoln, Nebraska, as Second-Class 

Matter Under Act of Congress, July 16, 1894. 

The University of Nebraska 

HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT 



HOME STUDIES SERIES No. 2 

FOOD: A FACTOR IN THE HOME 
CEREALS AND HOW TO COOK THEM 




FARM CAMPUS 



October^ 1907 

The University Press 

r.(incoli], Nebraska 



8 



3 7 



CONTENTS 



INTRODUCTION 

HOME SCIENCE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 
Boys' and Girls' Associations 

NUTRITIVE VALUE OF FOOD 
Food principles 

Water 

Mineral matter 

Carbohydrates 

Fats 

Proteids 
Efficiency dependent on wholesome food 

Balanced rations for animals 

Balanced rations for people 

What constitute balanced rations 

Natural appetite a good guide 

Mistakes to be avoided 
Further study 

COOKERY 

Reasons for cooking 
General principles 

Be clean 

Economize food materials, time and strength 

Measure accurately 

Lesson in measuring 

Apply heat wisely 

Work intelligently 

CEREALS AND HOW TO COOK THEM 
Food value 
Breakfast foods 
Extensive use 
Classification 
Cooking of cereals 

Amount of water usef 
Oatmeal mush 

Fireless cooker 
Cornmeal mush 
Lesson on cereals 



food: a facfor in the home 6 

Corn bread 

Boston brown bread 
Steamed corn bread 
Golden corn cake 
Wheat bread 
History 
Preparation 

Methods of making bread light 
Yeast as a leavening agent 
Forms of yeast 
Yeast plants at work 
The purpose of kneading 
The effect of heat 
Imperfections that sometimes occur in bread 
Heaviness or doughiness 
Sour bread 

Sticky or slimy bread 
Requisites op good bread 
Flavor 

Texture of crumb 
Texture of crust 
Size and form of loaf 
Score card for bread 
Methods of making bread 
Amount of materials 
Recipe for white bread 
Further work 

SUGGESTIONS FOR COUNTY EXHIBITS 

QUESTIONS TO ASSIST PERSONS AND CLUBS IN THE STUDY OF 
FOOD PROBLEMS 

REFERENCES HELPFUL IN THE STUDY OF FOOD PROBLEMS .-. 







OS 
pq 



O 

GQ 

1-9 



Food: a Factor in the Home 



By Rosa Bouton 



INTRODUCTION 

"Wholesome food is a necessity for productive life." — Ellen H. Richards. 

Because food is essential to life its selection and preparation 
are of vital importance. The efficiency of the individual is de- 
pendent in a much larger degree than is ordinarily supposed on the 
quality and quantity of his food. Likewise intellectual and moral 
power, as well as physical strength are in great measure conditioned 
by the amount and kind of food taken daily. These things being 
true, it is advisable for young people to study human nutrition. 

Much time and thought have been given to the study of the 
feeding of animals, but until recently comparatively little attention 
has been paid to the food problems of the human family. Today, 
however, people are awakening to the need of investigations con- 
cerning food and its assimilation in the human body; they are 
realizing that balanced rations are quite as necessary for boys and 
girls as for colts and calves. The work carried on in Experiment 
Stations and Agricultural Colleges has proved beyond the shadow 
of a doubt that the judicious feeding of animals greatly increases 
the profits of stock raising. Consequently, hundreds of young 
men from the farms are going to agricultural schools to learn 
how to feed animals so as to make the most money from the capital 
invested. Moreover, it is claimed by the young men that, after 
they have received this training, they can make dollars on their 
farms, where before they made cents. Reasoning from analogy, 
one is justified in assuming that, since animals thrive so much better 
when fed in accordance with scientific principles, human beings 
"would correspondingly increase in efficiency if their food were 
likewise selected and prepared in accordance with the best known 
methods. Moreover, since the farmer has found that from a money 



6 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

point of view, it pays to give his son training in cattle-feeding, he 
will soon learn that it will pay in the increased health and efficiency 
of his family to give his daughter training in the study of human 
nutrition. 

HOME SCIENCE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 

With the introduction of agriculture into the public schools 
educators are awakening to the need of the study of home science. 
School men are beginning to realize that, even in an agricultural 
state like. Nebraska, the home is as essential to the well being of 
the citizens of the commonwealth as the farm. They are coming 
to understand that it is quite as important that the girls learn to 
raise bread as that the boys learn to raise corn. Accordingly, 
with the Boys' Corn-Growing Contest came the Girls' Corn-Cooking 
Contest. Simultaneously with the Nebraska Boys' Agricultural 
Association there was formed the Nebraska Girls' Domestic Science 
Association. Food problems were among the first to attract the 
attention of the members of these associations. This bulletin 
is therefore designed to give them helpful suggestions and informa- 
tion concerning their work. 

BOYS' AND GIRLS' ASSOCIATIONS 

The objects of these associations are: first, to interest young 
people in home industries ; second, to aid them in becoming more 
intelligent concerning the same; and third, to help them to become 
more efficient in their work in the home and on the farm. 

The exhibition at the last state contest held by the Boys' and 
Girls' Associations was so large that the managers were convinced 
that is was impractical to longer continue these state contests in 
accordance with the original plan. It was therefore decided to en- 
courage county contests and to permit persons receiving high 
scorings at these contests to enter the state contest which will be 
held at Lincoln in January at the time of the meetings of organized 
agriculture. The state organizations are under the combined 
management of the State Department of Education and the State 
Farmers' Institutes. The managers are Deputy State Superin- 
tendent E. C. Bishop and Val Keyser, Assistant Superintendent 
of Farmers' Institutes. 



food: a factor in the home 7 

The county contests are under the management of the County 
Superintendents of Public Instruction, cooperating with the state 
managers. Thirty coimties are already organized for this work. 
Bulletins have been sent out to boys giving information concerning 
contests and directions for growing corn. This bulletin is issued 
from the Home Economics Department of the University of Ne- 
braska. It is designed not only to give the girls desired information 
concerning the contests with helpful suggestions for the same, 
but also to interest them and their mothers as well, in a practical 
study of food problems and to aid all in becoming more intelligent 
concerning the every day work of the home. 




/^■^«M^ "^^j 



CORN COOKING CONTEST 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

NEBRASKA CORN SONG. 

Written for the Nebraska Boys and Girls Associations 

Air. — "Marching Through Georgia." 
Our home is in Nebraska land 

Where skies are bright and clear; 
Where sunny days and balmy nights 

Play hide and seek all year; 
Where cozy homes are scattered in 

'Twixt corn fields far and near; 
For corn is the King in Nebraska. 

Chorus 

The Corn; The Com; 
The com we love so well; 

It grows; it grows; 
On prairie, hill and dell; 

And to all nations of the earth 
We raise enough to sell. 

For com is the King in Nebraska. 



Our boys are strong and brave and true 

And loyal to their state; 
They raise the Maize, the Indian com, 

That makes our nation great; 
They're husky lads; they're jolly boys; 

Prepared for any fate. 
While growing big corn in Nebraska. 
Chorus. 

3. 
Our lasses — modest, pure and good. 

Have eyes all clear and bright; 
Their willing hands and cheerful hearts 

Bring comfort and delight; 
From corn-bread, clear to Angel's food. 

Their cooking is quite right; 
For queens are they all in Nebraska. 
Chorus. 

4. 
Our homes, — the best in alj the world, 

Are happy all day long. 
We whistle at our morning's work 

And end up with a song. 
Ed-u-cation is our pride; 

We get it good and strong, 
SVhile growing with corn in Nebraska. 
Chorus. 

E. C. Bishop, 



food: a factor in the home 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF FOOD 



FOOD PRINCIPLES 

"To be well, to be able to do a day's work, is man's birthright. 
Nevertheless, a too large proportion of the American people sells 
this most valuable possession for a mess of pottage which pleases the 
palate for three minutes and weights the digestive organs for three 
hours." 

'•The economic and social conditions of daily life have reached 
such a stage of development as to make a closer study of food 
materials not only desirable but imperative." 

Ellen H. Richards. 

"Pood is that which taken into the body either builds tissue 
or yields energy." — W. O. Atwater. 

There are thousands of different foods but all are practically 
made up of one or more of five different substances called food 
principles. Of these, three are designated as nutrients and the 
the other two, water and mineral matter, as non-nutrients. 

WATER 

Although water is classed as a non-nutrient, it, nevertheless, 
serves a very important function in food economy. People are 
surprised when they begin to learn how large a portion of their 
food is water. In fresh fruit and vegetables the percentage of 
water varies from 75 to 90. This is but another way^ of saying that 
when one buys a hundred pounds of fruit or vegetables, he pays for 
from 75 to 90 pounds of water and receives, according to the kind 
of fruit or vegetable, from 10 to 25 pounds of solid food material. 
Sirloin steak is more than half water. Even white flour that seems 
so dry contains from 10 to 12 per cent of water. 

Since the human body itself is about two-thirds water, a con- 
siderable amount of this substance is required to repair the wear 
and tear of everyday life and keep the human mechanism in good 
condition. Water also serves as a carrier to transfer nourishment 
to the living cells of the body and to carry away the waste mat- 
ter from all parts of the system. 



10 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

Ordinarily people do not drink enough water. The average 
quantity required daily by an adult varies according to conditions 
of work, temperature, etc., but in general it is about three quarts. 
Of this a considerable portion is taken in the food. Too little 
water allows the refuse to accumulate and the bodily drainage 
system to become clogged. 

MINERAL MATTER 
This substance is present in larger or smaller amounts in prac- 
tically all the tissues of the body. The teeth and the bones contain 
the highest percentages. This mineral matter is composed chiefly 
of common salt, lime, iron, potassium, phosphorus, and sulphur. 
According to a wise provision in nature, these same substances are 
present in most food materials. Fruits and vegetables compared 
with other foods are rich in mineral matter. This fact suggests 
one of several reasons why fruit and vegetables should have a 
place on the bill of fare. In order that the tissues, which are 
continually wearing away, be repaired, all the elements of which they 
are composed must be provided in the food supply. The amount of 
mineral matter required is not large but it is essential. Enough 
is present in the ordinary food material if fruit and vegetables 
are freely used. But if these are not furnished, the health is en- 
dangered. Sometimes serious illness results from the oniission 
of fruit and vegetables from the daily ration. With children the 
danger is greater because they need the mineral matter, not only to 
repair tissue but to build new teeth and bone material as their bod- 
ies increase in"size. Rickets is a disease of children supposed to be 
caused by ins.ufficient mineral matter in the food. The teeth and 
bones do not develop as they should, nervous troubles appear, 
and sometimes disastrous results follow. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

The nutrients classed under the general term carbohydrates 
are familiar to all under the names of starch, sugar and cellular 
tissue of fruits and vegetables. The word carbohydrate comes 
from carbon and from hydro, a Greek word meaning water. The 
substances included in this class were given the name carbohydrates 
because they are in the main composed of carbon and two other 



food: a factor in the home U 

elements, hydrogen and oxygen, united in the proportion to form 
water. 

These foods serve as fuel in the production of energy ,'\'which 
manifests itself as heat and activity of body and mind. 

FATS. 

The nutrients called fats are well known as butter, lard, tallow, 
olive oil and cotton seed oil. Yolks of eggs contain about 30 per cent 
fat which may be extracted as a yellow oil. Nuts are rich in fats, 
walnuts, (shelled) containing 60 per cent. The cocoa bean from 
which cocoa and chocolate are made is 50 per cent fat. 

Eats are composed of the same elements as the carbohydrates 
but are' more complex in their structure. Like carbohydrates, 
fats serve" as . fuel in the production of energy. They are also 
stored in the different parts of the body as a reserve supply of fuel. 
In case of need they are utilized as food. When fat accumulates 
in any considerable quantity either directly under the skin or 
distributed among the tissues, it acts as a blanket to keep the 
body warm. 

PRQTEIDS 

The muscle building nutrients are called proteids because 
they are considered of first importance. The word proteid means 
first and the name is given to these substances because without 
them the tissues cannot be built up nor even repaired; hence 
they are essential to life. 

The white of egg, excepting the water, is nearly pure proteid. 
For this reason, the term albuminous is sometimes applied to 
this class of nutrients. Lean meat and the clabber of milk, minus 
the water they contain, are mainly proteid. Peas and beans are 
relatively rich in these muscle forming substances while most other 
vegetables are poor in this valuable nutrient. Nuts are so rich 
in proteids and fats, that they are sometimes used as substitutes 
for meat. Most grains contain some of these substances, rice 
being among the poorest in this regard and oatmeal the richest 
as it sometimes contains as high as 17% of proteid. Gluten, the 
substance in wheat which makes wheat flour superior to other 



12 THeJuNIVBRSITY^OP NEBRASKA 

flours in the production of light bread, is one of the most interesting 
forms of proteid . 

These nutrients contain all the elements found in the carbo- 
hydrates and fats, and in addition another called nitrogen, a gas 
constituting about four-fifths of the air. For this reason, they 
are often spoken of as nitrogenous substances. The proteids are 
the most complex of all the food materials and frequently contain 
either sulphur or phosphorus, or both. 

Their chief function is that of tissue building though in emergen- 
cies they may serve as fuel for the production of energy. As 
they are the most expensive of foods, it is very wasteful to use 
them for fuel even in the human body, because the fats and carbo- 
hydrates serve the purpose much better and cost less. 

EFFICIENCY DEPENDENT ONiWHOLESOME FOOD 

In order that the individual attain the highest degree of efficien- 
cy, he must take daily a sufficient amount of good wholesome 
food, containing the right proportions of these food principles. 

One of the most difficult problems to be solved, is to determine 
just what is a sufficient amount of food and what are the proportions 
in which these food principles should be supplied, in order that 
the best results may be secured. -" '^-.■:ip ~'^,^: ■'■^*'f¥^-. ^ ^ 

Because of the many varying conditions of age, health, occu- 
pation, temperature, etc., it is manifestly impossible to make 
hard and fast rules concerning these matters. These problems 
are being carefully studied but as yet scholars refrain from giving 
definite rules. Nevertheless, much information has been gained 
which may be applied in such manner as to give valuable results 
in every day living. 

BALAWCEDIRATI0NS_F0R ANIMALS 

The much talked of balanced rations for stock are nothing 
more nor less than definite amounts of food material containing 
all the food principles in such proportions as experiments h&xe 
shown to give the best results in stock feeding. The results to 
be secured in stock feeding are, increase of milk supply or increase 
in weight of animal, both of which can be easily determined. It 



food: a factor in the homk 13 

has been proven beyond question that desired results are secured 
with less outlay of money when the food principles present in the 
food stuffs bear certain specified ratios to each other. 

BALAJ^CED RATIONS FOR PEOPLE 
The problem' of human nutrition is, however, much more 
difficult, because in addition to the physical well-being, there 
must be considered the development of mental and moral power, 
all of which are dependent in a very large degree upon the food 
supply. In spite of the difficulties attendant on this problem, 
persons who have studied it carefully agree that with people the 
best results are secured, as with animals, when they are fed on 
balanced rations. As yet just what the balanced rations are 
under the varying conditions has not been definitely determined 
but much has been done and the rations have been calculated 
approximately. 

WHAT CONSTITUTE BALANCED RATIONS 

Many helpful suggestions are made for the guidance of those 
who wish to attain the highest degree of efficiency in their lives. 
For example, it is said in general that the body of an adult is 
well nourished if he has per day an amount of digestible proteid 
equivalent to about 3^ oz. (100 grams) of dry albumen, an equal 
amount of fat and from three to four times as much carbohydrate 
with three quarts of water and the mineral matter which he would 
get incidentally. In considering the above statement, one must 
remember that these amounts will vary accordingly to many con- 
ditions. For example, men ordinarily require more food than 
women. Those who do manual labor need more nourishment than 
those who live sedentary lives; those who live in cold climates 
more fat than those who live in warm countries, etc. 

"It is not necessary for the housekeeper to attempt to estimate 
the proportion of food principles in every dish she serves, but once 
a month or a quarter, if her accounts are well kept, she can see how 
nearly she approaches such daily estimate as the one below for 
each member of her family.'' 



14 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

A day's ration 

Ounces. 

Meat and Fish 12 to 16 

One egg 2 

Butter 1 to 2 

Milk, 1 gill to 1 pint 4 to 16 

Sugar ' 2 to 3 

Dry fruits 1 

Legumes 1 

Fresh vegetables and fruits 6 to 8 

Potatoes 8 to 12 

Flour and grains 12 to 16 

"Multiply this by thirty and we have a fair allowance for 
one"person for one month. Multiply this by the number of persons 
in the family, or, to be more accurate, by the fractional parts of 
a man's rations, usually allowed for women and children, and we 
have an ample supply for one month for the familj'. 

"If the larger quantity of potatoes has been used the smaller 
amount of flour would have been ample, while if eggs were cheap 
and two or more consumed by each person daily there should be 
a corresponding reduction in the amount of meat and fish." 

Anna Bahrows: "Principles of Cookery." 

NATURAL APPETITE A GOOD GUIDE 

It is a satisfaction to know that the natural appetite is a very 
good guide in selecting a balanced ration if all the food principles 
are generously supplied. For instance, if a meal consisting of 
bread and butter, meat or eggs, and vegetables (not peas or beans) 
be provided, one with a good healthy appetite may be trusted 
to take a well bailanced ration. If, however, the eggs and meat 
were absent there would be a lack of proteid for the amount con- 
tained in the bread and vegetables would not be enough to make a 
balanced ration. If, on the other hand, the vegetables were baked 
beans, and eggs and meat were both supplied, the proportion of 
proteid would be too great. 

MISTAKES TO BE AVOIDED 
In general, foods rich in proteids are the most expensive and 
those having a large proportion of carbohydrates the cheapest. 
It therefore follows that people who try to live with the least pos- 
sible outlay are likely to have too little proteid and conse- 



food: a factor in the home 



15 



quently will not be well nourished. While those who have an abund- 
ance are apt to take too much proteid and thereby overload the 
system with nitrogenous compounds which often result in serious 
disease. 

FURTHER STUDY 

Farmers' Bulletin 142, "Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive 
Value of Food" may be obtained free by writing to the U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture at Washington. This bulletin is -full of 
interesting information including answers to several questions 
given below on page 52. 




A GROUP OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLUB GIRLS 



BACTERIA 







©0 ^ 

2% ® 




^% (P- 
O80 






The spheres (representing fat globules) and the elipse (a yeii^t cell) 
show comparative size of bacteria. 



food: a factor in the home 17 



COOKERY 



REASONS FOR COOKING FOOD 

Briefly the reasons for cooking food are: (1) to make it more 
wholesome, (2) more attractive, (3) more digestible. 

Tiny organisms so small that we cannot see them with the naked 
eye have been revealed to us by the microscope. These minute living 
things are commonly, known as microbes or bacteria and are some- 
times spoken of as our secret friends and foes. Some of these are 
harmless and by their presence improve the flavor of food. These 
are our friends. Others produce poison in food and also in the 
human system when they gain entrance. They are therefore our 
enemies and should be guarded against. Heat kills these micro- 
organisms; therefore, 'with rare exceptions, cooking food sterilizes 
it and under certain conditions renders it more wholesome. 

The cooking of many food materials develops in them pleasing 
aromas, makes them more attractive in appearance, and also 
more palatable. Scientists tell us that other things being equal, 
food thait is pleasing to the senses of smell, sight, and taste is more 
easily digested than unattractive food, because it stimulates the 
various glands and causes the digestive fluids to flow more freely. 
There is therefore a physiological reason for making food attractive. 
A man speaks the literal truth when he looks at a chicken pie and 
says, "That makes my mouth water." 

Cooking softens the cellular tissue of both animal and vegetable 
foods so that it may be more easily acted on by the digestive 
fluids. Heat changes the starch rendering a portion of it soluble 
thus aiding in the digestive processes. It is probable that cooking 
sometimes renders the proteids less digestible as when eggs or meats 
are cooked at a high temperature. It is thought that heating . 
proteids at a low temperature for a longer time does not have 
this effect and this is the reason why the cooking of proteids in 
eggs and meats at low temperature is recommended. 



18' THE UNIVEHSITY OF NEBRASKA 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

BE CLEAN 

Keep food materials and cooking utensils clean. Dangerous 
bacteria and disease walk hand in hand with dirt. The disagreeable 
flavors which often appear in food are in many instances due to 
lack of care in dishwashing, or to slovenly methods practiced in 
the preparation of food. No pains should be spared in keeping all 
foods and cooking utensils in a clean and wholesome condition. As 
food spoils more easily in summer than in winter, special vigilance 
should be exercised in hot weather. Lack of care in this regard 
not only renders food unpleasant in flavor but is likely to result 
in serious illness. 

ECONOMIZE FOOD MATERIALS, TIME AND STRENGTH 

The well known saying that an American family wastes enough 
to keep a French family, is doubtless an exaggeration; nevertheless 
it is true that there is an immense amount of food materials and 
also human energy expended unwisely in American homes. The 
lack of economy of food materials is to be regretted but the waste 
of energy is far worse. It often happens that the homekeeper 
who does not economize her time and strength breaks down and 
sometimes sacrifices her life to this useless waste. 

MEASURE ACCURATELY 

Many failures attributed to "bad luck" are really due to inaccu- 
rate measurements. In the first place, the cup, the article most 
commonly used in measuring, varies in size. Some cups hold one 
half pint, others more, and still others less. The inexperienced 
person will find it greatly to her advantage in learning to cook, 
if she will get a measuring cup and use it in making her measure- 
ments. These cups hold one half pint and &re divided into thirds 
on one side and fourths on the other. They are made in tin and in 
glass. The tin ones cost ten cents. 

There is great difference in the manner in which different 
people measure with a spoon. Some fill the spoon level full 
others round over the top and still others have it heaped in varvino- 



food: a factor in the home 



19 



degrees. For example, one person following a recipe which calls 
for a teaspoonful of soda, will use twice as much of this material 
as another working from the same directions. 

This difficulty is obviated in schools of Domestic Science by 
using level measurements. The lesson in measuring which follows 
is inserted for the purpose of giving helpful suggestions to girls 
who belong to domestic science clubs and also to teachers 'who 
wish to introduce some of this work into schools where no equip- 
ment for teaching cookery has been provided. 



arr-r- -™-~ 


i*u:# . 


mmmm 


^.r^^ 


^[SB 


■r'..- "',,tu,fa 


-. it m^ 




cj,jt- i' cu^^iLf^J:^ ' 










P» 


^^K //^Hl 


■ /■. ■■'■ 


■^'^F^ : 




t?". ) ■ 


r* ^''■'^^^. '--'"^ 







LESSON IN MEASURING, BANCROFT SCHOOL 



LESSON IN MEASUKING 

Lesson given to sixth grade pupils in the Bancroft School, 
Lincoln, Nebr., by Miss Lura Belville, student of Home Economics 
in University of Nebraska. 

A twenty-five minute period of school time is used each week 
for the class work. The pupils do the practice work in their homes. 



20 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

UTENSILS AND MATERIALS USED 

Teaspoon Sugar 

Tablespoon Salt 

Measuring cup Flour 

Pint cup Water 
Quart cup 
Balance 

If each child can be supplied with these utensils and do the 
actual measuring, the exercise is of more value. 

If this is impoossible, some pupil may demonstrate before the 
class. I - -'i^'-if^'^^ 

The teacher should impress upon pupils the importance of care- 
ful measurements. 

A spoonful of any dry material is a level spoonful. 

A cupful is not more than the cup level full. 

A cup or spoonful of liquid is as much as the cup or spoon will 
hold. 

Dry material should not be pressed or shaken down when 
measured. Fill the spoon and level off with a case knife. A round- 
ing spoonful is twice as much as a level spoonful. 

To find one half a spoonful, divide lengthwise of the spoon with 
a knife; for one quaiter spoonful, divide the half crosswise, and for 
an eighth, divide the quarter. 

If the tea and tablespoons are standard, three teaspoons equal 
-one tablespoonful. 

Sixteen tablespoons equal one cupful. 

In all of the measuring, the tin measuring cup is used. It is 
divided into halves, quarters and thirds. 

Crive pupils practice in measuring tea and tablespoonfuls^of 
sugar, flour, water, etc. 

Have them measuie cupfuls, ^ cupful, ^, J, and J and J. 

Weighing articles wUl give valuable exercise. 

If possible the teacher should be supplied with balances or scales. 

First, weigh the cup, then the cup fUled with water, thus ascer- 
taining the weight of water. The results may be recorded as 
follows : 

Weight of cup 2 .5 oz. 

Weight of cup and water 10 .5 oz. 

Weight of water 8 , oz. 

Weigh sugar and flour in the same way and tabulate results. 

The old saying that "a pint is a pound the world around" is 
approximately true with reference to many food materials, there- 
fore a pint and a pound are used as synonymous terms in weighing 



food: a factor in the home 21 

water, milk, sugar, butter and many other things, but flour is only 
about half as heavy as these, requiring a quart to equal a pound. 

Mental arithmfetic drill 

(a) If one cup of flour weighs i lb., find weight of 

12 cups. 

(b) How many oz. in 2 cups flour? 

(c) How many oz. in 2 qts. flour? 

(d) I buy 3 pints of sugar. Find cost at 6 cents 

a pound. 

This mental exercise may be lengthened and reviewed from 
time to time. 

APPLY HEAT WISELY 

Apply heat to food materials in such manner as to render 
them wholesome and attractive. 

If the substances to be used in the making of a cake have been 
accurately measured and properly mixed the cake may be ruined 
in baking. To learn how to apply heat wisely to different food 
materials under varying conditions is one of the most difficult as 
well as one of the most important lessons to be learned by all who 
would succeed in the art of cooking. Much must be learned from 
experience', the best and sometimes the most expensive of all 
teachers. A few general suggestions may, however, be found 
helpful though full directions should be studied by the beginner 
as each new dish is undertaken. 

First, one should understand her stove and know how to regu- 
late the heat by means of dampers, use of fuel, etc. 

Second, there should be a definite purpose in mind and work 
should be directed toward its accomplishment. For example,, 
one has a piece of meat to cook. If she wishes to make from it 
soup or a- stew she will put it in cold water, raise the temperature 
gradually and cook it slowly in order that the juice may be extracted 
from the meat and enrich the soup or gravy. On the other hand, 
if one desires to keep the juices in the meat she will put it in boiling 
hot water, if she wants a pot roast, or into a very hot oven, if an 
oven roast, in order that the albumen on the surface may be hard- 
ened and the juice retained. If the roast has been put in the oven 
the heat will be reduced after the surface has been seared and the 



22 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 



roasting will be continued at a lower temperature. The length of 
time depends on the size of the roast. 

Third, a double boiler or some kind of jvater bath should be 
used for cooking such foods as cereals that burn easily and need 
long cooking at comparatively low temperatures. This method 
makes stirring unnecessary and keeps the food from burning. 

WORK INTELLIGENTLY 

Think, study, use brain as well as brawn; apply the discoveries 
of scientists, artists and inventors in your work. 

Putting thought into work transforms drudgery into delight. 
Try and see if it is not true. 

"Who toil aright, for those 
Life's pathway, eie it close 
Is as a rose." 

— Sir Lkwis Mokris. 




food: a factor in the home 
CEREALS AND HOW TO COOK THEM 

'And the prairies are clad for many a mile — 

With the tossing plumes of corn, 
And the fields of wheat wave like a sea 

Of green, on a summer mom — 
In Nebraska, the land of com." 

— DuNRor. 



23 




CERES 

From the point of view of food production, cereals form one 
of the most important classes of the vegetable kingdom. 

The word cereal comes from Ceres, the Roman name given to 
the Greek goddess Demeter who was supposed to have super- 
vision of grain and harvest. 

The cereals belong to the order Gramineae (grasses). They 
have hollow jointed stems and alternate parallel veined leaves. 
The seeds of these plants form a large proportion of the food of 
both men and the lower animals. 



24 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 




10 



03 



^ '^ ^ 5 ri ^ 
r» v' >-^ "^ ■'^ S (U -O 



? CJ Qj 






food: a factor in the home 25 

The most important cereals grown in this county are wheat, 
corn, oats, rye, and barley. Rice ranks as the first cereal in China 
and Japan. Recently its cultivation has been introduced quite 
extensively in our own southern states. 

FOOD VALUE 

According to Farmers' Bulletin 249 cereals supply 22 per 
cent of the total food. 

Cereals are rich in carbohydrates, the starch varying from 
70 to 80 per cent. Of all the cereals, oats contain the most proteid, 
many analyses showing an average of 16 per cent. In wheat 
the muscle building substances vary from 9 to 15 per cent the 
average being not far from 12 per cent. The percentage of water in 
flour is about the same as the proteid. The cereals as a class are 
poor in fats but corn and oats have more than other grains and 
generally show from 7 to 8 per cent. The fat in rice is usually less 
than 1 per cent while it sometimes runs as high as 3 per cent in 
wheat though 2 per cent is -near the average. Cereals all contain 
mineral matter the amount varying from a fraction of 1 per cent 
in rice to 2 or more in oats. 

"Judged by their chemical composition alone, that is, by the 
total amounts of nutrients furnished, of the six most important 
cereal grains, namely, wheat, oats, rice, corn, rye, and barley, 
oats appear to furnish the nutrients in better proportions than 
the other cereals. Wheat ranks very close to oats and corn next 
to wheat." 

Cereals supply actual digestible nutrients to the body 

more cheaply than any other class of foods except dried legumes 
(peas, beans, etc)". — Farmers' Bulletin 249. 

Cereals are extensively used because they are so rich i^ nutrients 
and contain so little refuse. Also because they are comparatively 
inexpensive and keep well. Moreover, they are easily prepared 
for the table and are jjalatable and digestible. 



STARCH 

WHEAT 






gjj^^/ ^'%^rw3v%^ ; 



3Qrapn^ 










BARLEY 



CORN 




OATS 



RICE 



O 



A 




x^^o 



"vi> 





Q. 



O 




c^ 



a ^ 



o 



food: a factor in the home 27 

BREAKFAST FOODS 

EXTENSIVE USE 
The use of cereals as breakfast foods has greatly increased 
during recent times. Indeed, so extended is their use for this 
purpose that cereals and breakfast foods have come to be synony- 
mous terms. So great is the variety of the different brands that 
their name is legion. 

It is supposed that the use of oats as a human food originated 
with the Scotch. The sturdy character of the Scotchman is 
often attributed to the oatmeal, which, with milk, formed so large a 
portion of his diet. It is related of Dr. Johnson that he once 
said to a Scotchman, "Oats is a grain fed to horse's in England 
but eaten by men in Scotland." Whereupon the Scotchman 
replied, "Yes, and I have noticed that they grow the best of horses 
in England and the best of men in Scotland." 

In the United States the present extensive use of breakfast 
foods doubtless had its beginning in the oat meal which the Scotch- 
man brought with him when he came to this country. 

The chief use of oatmeal is as a breakfast food made into mu§h 
or porridge, though muffins and cookies are sometimes prepared 
from it. 

Corn is used more extensively in the preparation of corn bread 
and various other dishes, than as a breakfast food. 

The greater part of all the wheat in the world is consumed 
in the production of bread. Nevertheless, large quantities of 
breakfast foods of varied brands are made from this most highly 
prized cereal. 

The amount of rice used as a breakfast food has been com- 
paratively small, until recently when it has appeared in new forms 
one of which is puffed rice. This has met with considerable favor 
as a breakfast dish. 

CLASSIFICATION 

Breakfast foods are classified according to the grain from which 
they are made and also as to their preparation. According to 
the latter classification they may be divided into three groups, 
first those prepared from the uncooked grain, second from the 



28 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBBASKA 

cooked, and third, usually from cooked food, to which some sub- 
stance, as malt, has been added to make it more digestible. 

To the first class belong all uncooked grains, whether they be 
put on the market whole, broken, rolled, or ground as whole rice 
grains, cracked wheat, steel-cut oatmeal, or ground corn meal. 

Examples of the second class are rolled oats which have been 
partially cooked by steam, corn flakes, force, and other prepar-' 
ations which have been thoroly cooked, including shredded wheat 
biscuit, the wheat of which has been boiled, shredded and baked 
as biscuit. 

The third class is made up of the so called predigQSted or malted 
breakfast foods. These foods are usually cooked before the malt 
is added. The cooking increases their digestibility and the malt 
added is supposed to change some of the insoluble starch to the 
soluble form. 'From analyses made of these foods it is evident 
that only a small amount of the starch is thus changed and the 
-conclusion is reached that they probably do not merit the name 
predigested. 

^Farmers' Bulletin 249 pp. 20, 21. 

THE COOKING OF CEREALS 

Those who have studied human nutrition generally agree 
that cereals should be thoroly cooked. Long cooking of these 
foods is recommended, first, because they are rich in starch and 
the granules of this substance are broken open by heat thus making 
the starch more soluble and accessible to the digestive fluids; and 
second, because experiments seem to show that the human digestive 
organs are able to utilize only a very small portion of the cellular 
tissue of the cereals before they are thoroly cooked. By the long 
continued application of heat, these tissues are so changed that 
the greater portion becomes digestible. Moreover, long cooking 
besides making such cereals as contain a considerable amount of 
cellular tissue, as corn and oatmeal, more wholesome, also decidedly 
improves their flavor. 

Rice needs to be cooked only until the grains are tender as it 
has very little cellular tissue. 

To cook cereals in a single. basin or kettle long enough to make 



food: a factor in- the home 29 

them wholesome is a very tedious process because so much time 
must be spent in stirring and watching to keep them from burning. 
If, however, the double boiler be used, very little time need be 
expended in the cooking of cereals. To begin with, ten minutes 
is required to boil the cereal in the inner portion of the double 
boiler, placed directly on the hot stove or over a flame. During 




DOUBLE BOILER 
this time frequent stirring is needed to keep the substance from 
burning. The inner boiler is then placed in boiling water which 
the outer boiler contains and the food left to cook from one to 
three hours according to cereal used and result desired. The 
only further attention required is to see that the food be kept 
moist enough and that water continues to boil in the outer re- 
ceptacle. 

AMOUNT OF WATER USED 

The amount of water required in the preparation of breakfast 
foods varies with the kind and condition of the cereal, different 
samples of the same grain requiring different amounts of water 
because some are drier than others. The longer the cereal is cooked 
the greater the amount of water needed because, even though the 
boiler is covered, some water escapes by evaporation. 

The amounts stated in the receipes given in the lesson on cereals 
which follows may be taken as a guide and modified to suit varying 
conditions. 

OATMEAL MUSH 

Oatmeal i which has been steamed in the process of manu- 
facture of course does not need to be cooked as long as the so- 
called steel-cut oatmeal which is raw. Most rolled oats are steamed 



30 THE UNIVEESITY OF NEBRASKA 

at, the mills. In general, cereals should be cooked about twice 
as long as the statement on the package requires. Oatmeal 
that has not been partially steamed in its manufacture ought 
never to be used unless cooked at least an hour and is much im- 
proved if cooked two or three hours. As a matter of economy 
both of fuel and time, it is well to cook oatmeal the day before 
it is to be served, then it can be warmed for breakfast in a very 
few minutes. 

A very excellent and economical method of cooking cereals 
is by means of the fireless cooker, or the hay cooker as one mod- 
ification of this device is called. The results secured with the 
fireless cooker equal in every respect those obtained with the 
double boiler and the fuel required is much less. The cereal is 
boiled for ten minutes the same as if it were to be cooked in a 
double boiler. It is then placed in the fireless cooker and allowed 
to remain several hours, the number varying according to the 
cereal. Rice, if previously soaked, is thoroly cooked by this 
method in three hours. If oatmeal be put into this cooker in the 
evening, in the morning it will be ready for breakfast, hot and 
thoroly cooked, having an excellent flavor. 

FIRELESS COOKER 

The simplest form of this cooker may be made in any home 
from an old trunk or a box with a tightly fitting lid. This box 
should be filled with hay packed in very closely and a hole or nest 
made in the middle of the hay of such size and shape that it will 
hold the kettle or jar in which the cereal is to be cooked. This 
receptacle should have a cover that fits tightly. After the cereal 
has been cooked for ten minutes it is put boiling hot in the dish 
in the hay box and covered with a closely fitted cushion of haj- and 
the box cover closed. The hay is a non-conductor of heat and the 
food which was put in boiling hot therefore remains hot for many 
hours and is thoroly cooked without additional heat. 

Fireless cookers made according to the same principle are 
sold by furnishing houses. These are upholstered and are easier to 
handle because the hay does not get scattered in putting in and 
removing the food. Moreover, the holes are made to fit the recept- 
acles designed for them. In some of these cookers rnineral wool, 



food: a factor in the home 



31 




t-3 






'1 



FIRELESS COOKiiJR 

a non-conducting substance used extensively in cold storage build- 
ings is used in place of the hay. A very convenient arrangement is 
to have an upholstered fireless cooker in the seat of a kitchen 
settle. A kitchen settle is pictured and described, under the name 
of combination table, seat, and chest, on pp. 12 and 13 of 
Convenient Kitchens, Home Study Series, No. 1. 



CORN MEAL MUSH 

In making corn meal mush the meal should be sifted gradu- 
ally into the boiling water and stirred continually; otherwise 
lumps are likely to form. After the mixture has boiled for ten 
minutes the cooking may be finished in the double boiler with little 
further attention. 



32 THE UNIVJiBSITY OP NEBRASKA 

LESSON ON CEREALS 

The following lesson was given, as was the one on measur- 
ing, by Miss Belville to sixth-grade pupils in the Bancroft School, 
Lincoln, Neb.: 

This class of foods was studied as to the growth of the plant, 
the leaves, value as a food, mode of manufacture, various brands, 
and preparation for food. 

The following recipe was given the children to be worked out in 
their homes: 

1 cup oatmeal 

2 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cook over direct flame or on hot stove for ten minutes, then 
in double boiler for from one to three hours. 

The pupils cooked the oatmeal at home and brought samples 
to school for testing and grading. That brought by some of them 
had been cooked three hours. 

The children learned, (1) the use of the double boiler of which 
many had never heard, those who did not have the double boilers 
improvised them, (2) that oatmeal cooked three hours is better than 
that cooked one hour. 

Many ways of serving were suggested by the children: 

(1) Serve with, cream and sugar. 

(2) Remove core from baked apples, fill with oatmeal and 
serve with whipped cream and sugar. 

(3) Use fruit juice instead of cream and sugar. 

(4) Sliced fruits served with oatmeal. 

(5) Cold oatmeal may be sliced and fried. 

Rice was studied in a similar manner. 
The rice should be washed before cooking. 
1 cup rice 

3 to 4 cups water 
1 teaspoon salt 

Cook for ten minutes over direct flame or hot stove, then in 
double boiler about an hour. 

Stir as little as possible and always with a fork. 
Raisins may be added. 

(1) Rice may be served with cream and sugar. 

(2) Serve with gravy as vegetable. 

(3) Serve with fruit. 

(4) Use in various kinds of puddings. 

(5) Bake with salt, pepper, butter and grated cheese. 

The children were asked to bring in the results of their cooking. 
Samples came cooked and served in many ways. 



food: a factor in the home 33 

Each child was given a grade for every dish brought in. 

When the children were asked the number of breakfast foods on 
the market, they began a search in wholesale catalogues, in grocery 
stores, and other places, with the result that they listed more than 
fifty varieties or names of socalled "breakfast foods." 

The pupils were much interested in making cook books in which 
to keep their recipes. They used gray drawing paper for covers 
and fastened in them a number of leaves of blank paper. The covers 
were lettered and decorated with watet colors. The children 
chose the names for their own books ; among which are the following; 

"The Every Day Cook Book," "The Good Cook's Cook Book", 
"The Monday Afternoon Cook Book", "The Economical Cook 
Book", "The Bancroft Cook Book", "The Home Made Cook Book"- 

These books were called in from time to time to be graded. 

Both boys and'girls were interested in this work. 




34 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 




food: a factor in the home 35 



CORN BREAD 



, A BEAUTIFUL PLANT 

"How straight and tall and stately stand 
Its serried stalks upright and strong! 
How nobly are its outlines planned, 
What grace and charm to it belong! 
What splendor in its rustling leaves ! 
What richness in its close-set gold! 
What largess in its clustered sheaves, 
New every year, tho ages old!" 

— Celta Thaxter. 

Since corn is King in Nebraska, and in the state there are raised 
such enormous quantities of corn it is fitting that corn products 
should have a place in the cooking contests of Nebraska. 

Corn bread or Johnny cake doubtless had its origin in America, 
because maize, or corn as it is commonly called, is a native of this 
country. The crude food which the Indians prepared from corn 
and baked on hot stones before their camp fires and the hoe cake 
of the negroes are among the primitive forms of corn bread. 

By the addition of such substances as milk, eggs, sweetening, 
shortening, etc., many varieties of corn bread have developed 
which are much more palatable than the primitive forms. 

Corn bread is usually made light by means of baking powder 
or soda used with cream of tartar or sour milk. 

Corn contains less proteid than wheat and that which it has is 
not in the form of gluten which makes possible the light porous 
loaf produced from wheat fiour. For this reason, there can not 
be made from corn meal or flour a loaf having the same pleasing 
porous texture that loaves made from wh^at flour possess. Bread 
made from corn meal crumbles easily and that mafle from rye is 
inclined to Be sticky. Therefore a bread made from a mixture of 
the two is considered by many an improvement on that made from 
either used alone. In the well known Boston brown bread Graham 
flour is added to the mixture of corn meal and rye. This bread 
is steamed or baked a long time in a slow oven. The high favor in 



36 THE UNIVERSITY OP NEBRASKA 

which this bread was held in New England was probably largely due 
to the flavor developed by baking in the brick oven of the long ago. 
Those ovens gave a regular heat and the bread remained in the oven 
for hours at a temperature low enough to keep it from burning and 
high enough to bake it thoroly. The recipe for Boston brown bread 
given by Miss Farmer in the Boston School Cook jBook is as 
follows: 

BOSTOfi BROWN BREAD 

1 cup rye meal.. J tablespoon soda. 

1 cup granulated corn meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup Graham flour. | cup molasses. 

2 cups sour milk, or 1 J cups sweet milk or water. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses and milk, stir until 
well mixed, turn into a well-buttered mould, and steam three and 
one-half hours. The cover should be buttered before being placed 
on mould, and then tied down with string; otherwise the bread in 
rising might force off cover. Mould should never be filled more 
than two-thirds full. A melon-mould or one-pound baking powder 
boxes make the most attractive shaped loaves, but a five-pound 
lard pail answers the purpose. For steaming, pla,ce mould on a 
trivet in kettle containing boiling water, allowing water to come 
half-way up around mould, cover closely, and steam, adding, as 
needed, more boiling water. 

The steamed corn bread or brown bread given in the Nebraska 
Corn Book, issued in 1906, is made of corn meal with Graham 
flour. 



STEAMED CORN BREAD 

4 cups sour milk. J cup raisins seeded. 

1 cup molasses. -3 teaspoons salt. 

2 i cups com meal. 5 teaspoons soda. 
2 cups Graham flour. 

Steam four hours. 

One half of this recipe may be used to advantage. 

The golden corn cake given in the same book copied from 
Boston School Cook Book is an example of corn bread made 
with corn meal and white flour. 



food: a factor in the home 37 

GOLDEN CORN CAKE 

} cup corn meal. 1 egg. 

1 i cups flour. i tablespoon melted butter 

J cup sugar. 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk, egg well beaten and 
butter; bake in shallow buttered pan twenty minutes. 

The above will make a cake about two inches thick if baked 
in a pan 6x8 inches. 

Corn bread may be made of corn meal without the addition 
of the flour of other grain but the taste is not as pleasing to 
most people as when some other flour is used with the corn meal. 

WHEAT BREAD 

Of all cereals wheat in most highly prized. Oats, so far as 
actual nutrients are concerned, equals it in food value. Indeed 
the average per cent of the muscle building substance in oats 
is considerably higher than in wheat but the proteid in the wheat 
is largely gluten, a gray, tenacious, elastic material, which makes 
possible the light porous character of the loaf made from wheat 
flour. The same spongy attractive texture cannot be secured with 
meal or flour made from other grains, because comparatively little 
of their proteid is in the form of gluten. By washing in running 
water a piece of dough made from wheat flour, an elastic gummy 
substance is obtained which is gluten. Likewise the gum which 
children get by chewing wheat grains is gluten. 

HISTORY 

The history of bread is as old as that of the human race. It 
is probable that the first bread was made by baking on hot stones 
or under hot ashes, a mixture of water with grains broken by 
pounding, or coarsely ground between stones. Doubtless in the long, 
long ago, some tent wife left a portion of her dough without baking. 
The next morning she found this dough full of tiny holes.- The 
micro-organisms, though their existence was unknown, had done their 
work in producing a gas which made the dough light. The dough 
was baked and the quality of the bread was improved because 



38 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 



HEAD OF WHEAT 



pood: a factor in the home 39 

of its porous nature. Thus leaven was discovered which is the 
ancestor of the yeast of today. 

Through the centuries, step by step, advances have been made 
until there has developed from the crude bread of ancient times 
a loaf which is practically perfect in form and color, and in taste 
and texture. 

In the production of this perfected product, many factors 
have been employed. Among these may be mentioned, (1) the 
invention of many devices which are used in the making of bread, 
(2) the improvement in methods of cookery, (3) the investi- 
gation of the nature and life history of yeast plants, (4) the new 
methods of milling whereby impurities are removed from the 
wheat grains and cleaner and better flour is produced. 

PREPARATION OF BREAD 

METHODS OF MAKING BREAD LIGHT 

At the present time there are two general methods of making 
bread light, one is by means of yeast producing what is ordinarily 
known as raised or light bread, and the other by the use of baking 
powder, or soda, used with cream of tartar or sour milk. There 
is another method, not in common use, of lightening bread, by 
forcing gas into the dough by mechanical means. An example of 
this is the Dauglish process, devised by an Englishman. In 
this bulletin only the first method will be discussed. 

YEAST AS A LEAVENING AGENT 

Whether considered from the home or from the scientific 
viewpoint, the production of light bread by the aid of yeast is 
an intensely interesting process. The marvelous character of the 
changes which take place in the mixing bowl and the oven, having 
been revealed to us by the investigation of scientists, give to the 
art of bread-making new interest. 

Yeast is composed of tiny cellular plants so small that they 
cannot be seen with the naked eye. Like larger plants these 
microscopic ones thrive if given nourishing food and favorable 
conditions of temperature and moisture. The temperature which 



YEAST 

^accharomyces cere\/isiae 



2S00 

inch 











QH,A='iCH,0 + QCO: 



CRAPE SUGAR 



ALCOHOL CARBON DIOXIDE 





food: a factoh in the home 41 

seems best suited to their development is 70"— 9(1° F. (21° --32" C). 
When too cold these yeast plants do not grow and are killed if the 
heat be raised to 158° F. Under favorable conditions they grow and 
propagate very rapidly by a process called budding. On one 
side of the cell, of which the tiny plant consists, there appears a 
swelling called a bud. This bud enlarges, produces other buds of 
irregular form which separate from the parent cell, thus forming 
new plants. 

Yeast requires for its food the same elements which are neces- 
sary for the nourishment of other plants. When yeast is added 
to a mixture of flour and warm water, the tiny plants begin to 
grow because they find in the flour the food which they need for 
their development. From the proteid they get the requisite amount 
of nitrogen. , Likewise the flour contains the mineral matter re- 
quired for their growth. Flour also contains a kind of sugar 
called glucose which is not as sweet as ordinary sugar. A solution 
of this glucose in the presence of the other substances named, 
furnishes an excellent medium for the development of the yeast 
plants. A very remarkable thing about their growth is the power 
they have of breaking up the glucose into alcohol and a gas called 
carbon dioxide This gas is the agent which, as it rises through 
the dough, gives the porous character to the mass. The gluten, 
moreover, serves to entangle the gas and prevent its escape. One 
reasdn for adding sugar to the mixture when starting bread is to 
furnish food for the yeast plant. A large amount of sugar, however, 
retards its growth. A considerable amount of fat likewise retards 
the growth of the yeast and consequently causes the dough to 
rise more slowly. 

FORMS OF YEAST 

Yeast as it is ordinarily used in bread making occurs in three 
forms known as compressed yeast, yeast foam, and homemade 
yeast. The latter is sometimes kept in the dry form but more 
commonly used as soft yeast. 

The compressed yeast contains more yeast plants to the cubic 
inch than the others and therefore raises the dough more rapidly. It 
is purchased in small moist soft cakes wrapped in tin foil. Unless 
kept in a cool place it spoils quickly. For this reason it can be 



42 THE UNIVEHSITY OF NEBRASKA 

used only by those who can buy it just before using, or who have 
refrigerators in which they may keep it, consequently it is seldom 
used in rural homes. 

Yeast foam is sold in packages of small dry cakes and can be 
kept much more easily than the compressed yeast. It is not so 
rich in yeast plants and therefore does not act as rapidly but 
is very generally used because it keeps well. Just as good bread 
may be made with it as with the compressed yeast. 

In some rural neighborhoods the soft homemade yeast is used 
almost exclusively. If this is properly prepared and carefully 
kept excellent bread may be made from it. There is, however, 
danger of acid fermentation setting in as the old yeast is kept 
from one baking till another. When this happens the bread made 
with it has a slightly sour taste and odor though the texture is 
fine. At certain county contests the writer has noticed that with 
two or three exceptions all the bread exhibited had this slightly 
acid flavor. Upon inquiry it was learned that nearly all the people 
in the neighborhood used the homemade yeast and that it had 
been passed from one home to another. It seems that the people 
had become so accustomed to this flavor that it had ceased to be 
objectionable to them. 

THE YEAST PLANTS AT WORK 

When yeast is added to a warm mixture of flour and water the 
tiny plants very soon begin to grow and do their work of pro- 
ducing gas which makes the bread light. With the aid of a com- 
pound microscope one may actually see the buds form on the 
tiny cellular plants. The bubbles of gas produced by the acJ;ion 
of the yeast on the glucose gradually fill the mixture and it becomes 
a light spongy mass. The gluten of the flour acts like a curiously 
devised trap entangling the gas and preventing its escape. When 
the mixture is very light, more flour is added and the whole mass 
kneaded. 

THE PURPOSE OF KNEADING 

The purpose of kneading is two fold, first, to distribute the 
gas evenly throughout the entire mass so that the pores may 



food: a factor in the home 43 

be of uniform size, and second, to mix the flour into all portions 
alike so that there shall be no streaks and the texture shall be 
the same all through the crumb of the loaf, which is the portion 
within the crust. The gluten of the flour serves to retain the gas 
and thus gives the porous character to the loaf. In order that 




BREAD-MIXER 

the bread may be fine in texture the kneading must be thoroly done' 
Formerly the kneading of the dough was the hardest part of the 
work of bread making, but recently there has been devised a 
utensil called a "bread mixer" by means of which the dough is 
so thoroly mixed that the labor of kneading by hand may be 
dispensed with. This mixer is on sale in many house furnishing 
establishments. The price is two dollars. 

THE EFFECT OF HEAT 

When a loaf of unbaked bread is placed in the oven the heat 
changes it as follows: (1) it prevents the further production of 
gas by killing the yeast plants, (2) it increases the size of the loaf 
by expanding the gas, (3) it volatilizes the alcohol formed from 
the glucose, (4) it hardens the gluten thus making^ permanent the 
porous character of the loaf, (5) it forms a crust over the loaf 
which prevents the dough from rising enough to make the bread 
too light and dry, (6) it cooks the starch rendering it more di- 
gestible, (7) it changes some of the starch in the crust to glucose 
and dextrin which is considered more digestible than the starch 
and by partial carbonization gives the crust a beautiful brown 
color and pleasing flavor. 



44 THE UNIVERSITY OP NEBRASKA 



IMPERFECTIONS THAT SOMETIMES OCCUR IN BREAD 

HEAVINESS OR DOUGHINESS 

Heaviness or doughiness which occur all too frequently in 
bread is usually due to one or more of the following causes: (1) 
insufficient raising, (2) poor flour which cannot absorb as much 
water as it should, (3) too much liquid in proportion to the amount 
of flour used. 

The addition of alum often improves the appearance of bread 
made from poor flour. The use of alum for this purpose is, however, 
objectionable; first, because it is, by most authorities, considered 
unwholesome; and second because it makes poor flour appear better 
than it is. 

The large uneven holes which are often present in bread are 
in general caused either by allowing the bread to stand too long 
before baking, or when they occur immediately under the crust, 
by the heat of the oven being so great that the crust is formed 
before the gas has finished expanding. 

SOUR BREAD 

Sour bread, which is so objectionable, is due to the work of 
bacteria. These, our secret enemies, sometimes, though not often, 
get into our bread through the flour. They generally gain entrance 
through the yeast. If at any time during the process of bread 
making the dough is allowed to stand too long the bacteria if 
present begin their work of producing acids which spoils the 
flavor of the bread. This action is called acid fermentation. 
Objectionable bacteria may enter the bread by way of unclean 
utensils used in the bread making. It it therefore necessary to 
use great care in cleansing all dishes used in the process. 

STICKY. OR SLIMY BREAD 

During the summertime it occasionally happens that bread which 
is very good when first baked, grows slimy on the interior of the 
loaf when it is two or three days old. According to investigations 
made by the 'Wisconsin Experiment Station this peculiar change is 

'Wis. Sta. Rpt. 1898, p. 110 



food: a factor in the home 45 

due to the work of common potato bacillus (Bacillus mesentericus 
vulgatus). 

This peculiar appearance of slime or ropiness has also been 
investigated by 'E. J. Watkins who attributes the occurrence to the 
work of bacteria which get into the dough through the flour, coming 
possibly from the bran coats. According to this investigator 
breads containing bran and straight grade white flours are most liable 
to develop ropiness. These bacteria resist the heat of the oven, 
growing after the bread is baked. The presence of acid is unfavor- 
able to the development of the bacteria. The author's experiments 
lead to the conclusion that "the addition of a small quantity of 
acetic acid to the dough will effectually prevent the appearance 
of ropiness in the resulting bread during a much longer period 
than bread is usually kept. The minimum quantity of acid appears 
to be about 0.3 lb. per sack of flour, whilst a maximum of 0.7 lb. 
should not be exceeded on account of its softening action on the 
gluten. ) 

"Low temperature and dryness of the bread store tend to sup- 
press development, but .the maximum temperature of 18° C. 
(65° F.) can not be exceeded without great risk. 

"When a batch of bread is found to be ropy, all flour in stock 
should be at once tested, so as to locate the infected stock, and in 
the meantime fresh supplies of flour from a different source should 
be laid in. 

"When the infected batch of flour has been discovered, it 
should be isolated, so that it can be worked up under those con- 
ditions which are most unfavorable to the development of the 
bacillus, i. e., the doughs being made slightly acid and the bread 
being quickly cooled and kept at low temperature during storage. 
Such flour might advantageously be kept until the colder months 
when the prospects of development are at a minimxim." 

THE REQUISITES OF GOOD BREAD 

FLAVOR 

Perhaps the most important requisite of bread is a good taste. 
To define exactly what is meant by a good taste, or to determine 
which of several samples of good bread has the best taste is an 

iJour. Soc. Chem. Indus. 25 (1906), No. S, pp. 350-357, 



46 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBBA.SKA 

exceedingly difficult task, because there is so much variation 
in the taste of individuals. Nevertheless no one would question 
the statement that bread to be good, must have a pleasing flavor, 
a taste that is acceptable- to the majority of people. In a contest 
the decision as to which of several loaves has the best flavor 
must 'be determined by the taste of the judge, who is supposed 
to have had experience and training in bread judging. 

The term flavor, as used in the score card which follows in- 
cludes both taste and odor. Excellent bread is pleasing in odor 
as well as taste and possesses not the slightest suggestion of a 
disagreeable odor. 

TEXTURE OF THE CRUMB 

Texture and grain are terms, that are used as yet, somewhat 
indefinitely in the description of the nature or character of the 
crust and the crumb of bread. The word texture comes from a 
Latin word which means to weave, and has therefore been applied 
to the nature of the substance woven and later to the character 
of the structure of other substances not woven. Accordingly 
it is said that the texture of the crumb of bread is excellent, when 
the pores are small and evenly distributed and the crumb is light 
but not dry and crumbly, when it is the same color all through 
and there are no places showing that the flour was not well worked 
in and no heavy or doughy streaks. 

Under the heading of texture of crumb, in the score card which 
follows, there should be considered the following qualities of the 
crumb, (1) lightness, (2) color, (3) doughiness, (4) moisture. 

In good bread the crumb is light, but not light enough to 
crumble, when cut or to dry out quickly. The holes should be 
small and uniform in size, no large holes. 

lit should be nearly white in color though the exact tint is 
not of as much importance as uniformity of color. There should 
be no color streaks which signify imperfect mixing. Lumps of 
flour are decidedly objectionable. 

The crumb should be well baked to the center with no sugges- 
tion of doughiness in streaks or otherwise. 

There are a few people who prefer their bread very dry but 



food: a factor in the home 47 

this is not the case with the majority. The crumb should therefore 
be moist enough to be generally acceptable. 

■;■■ TEXTURE OF THE CRUST 

"The crust should be well done, of a rich brown color but never 
burned. It should have a pleasing flavor and should be neither 
toohard nor too soft to be palatable. 

SIZE AND FORM 

[^'^What -the size of the-. loaf should be depends somewhat on 
where i£ is to be used. In cooking schools, in cooking contests, 
and in small families the small single loaf is preferred. A conven- 
ient size is 9 inches long by 4 inches wide. The crust if well baked 
is considered the most wholesome part of the bread and in the small 
single loaves the proportion of crust is greater than in large loaves, 
or in small ones where more than one is baked in the same pan. 
There is accordingly some foundation for the opinion that small 
single loaves are the most wholesome. When loaves are baked 
singly and are entirely surrounded by crust they do not dry out 
as quickly as when one loaf is broken from another and a portion 
of the crumb is exposed. The size of a slice of bread cut from a 
small loaf is generally more acceptable than that cut from a large 
loaf. However, if the bread is to be served to harvesters, threshers, 
or others doing heavy manual labor doubtless, the large slices 
cut from a large loaf will prove more satisfactory. 

It is much more difficult to bake a large loaf or several loaves 
in one pan, than a small single one because there is more danger 
of burning the outside before the center is thoroly baked. 

The form of the loaf is perhaps the least important of all the 
factors to be considered in bread making. But a loaf of bread 
is not perfect if irregular in form. If two loaves were equally 
good in all particulars except the form, one of which was regular 
and-the other irregular, the regular one would be scored the higher. 
Slices cut from a regular loaf of bread are more attractive than 
those cut from an irregular one. Rectangular loaves are preferred 
to round ones because the slices are more uniform. 




Q 

Pi 
n 

o 
m 

O 
h) 

a 
o 
12; 






food: a factor in the homk 49 

SCORE CARD FOR BREAD 

The score card which follows is a tentative one. It is pre- 
sented by the Home Economics Department of the State University 
with the hope that it may be of help to the bread judges in the 
cooking contests held throughout the state. 

SCORE CARD 
Flavor 

Taste / ^. 

Odor \ 

Texture of Crumb 

Lightness 

Doughiness 40 

Color 

Moisture 
Texture of Crust 

Color / 10 

Hardness j 
Size and Form .5 

Total 100 

METHODS OF MAKING BREAD 

The simplest form of nutritious, appetizing bread may be 
made by adding yeast with a little salt to a mixture of warm water 
and flour and treating according to directions given below. For 
most people the flavor is improved if to the above mixture a little 
sugar and shortening be added. The nutritive value of bread is 
increased and likewise it is made more pleasing to the tastes of 
some people if milk be used instead of water for a portion or all 
of the wetting. Some housewives think they must have butter- 
milk in order to make good bread, others consider potatoes or at least 
the water in which they have been boiled, essential. While these 
substa,iipes change the quality and the flavor of bread, and for 
many people improve it, nevertheless it is true that palatable 
nutritious bread can be made by the simplest method, as indicated 
above. 

Many people scald a portion of the flour and cool it to the 
desired temperature with cold milk or water before adding the 
yeast. It is claimed that scalding the flour makes the bread 



50 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

more moist. The same claim is made for the addition of potatoes 
and buttermilk. The boiling water bursts the starch granules 
making them more soluble and ready to be transformed into 
glucose from which the gas is produced. 

There are two general methods of mixing the materials in 
bread making. One is to add nearly all the flour directly after 
putting in the yeast, making a stiff loaf and kneading it before 
it begins to rise. The second method is to add at first with the 
yeast only a portion of the flour making a comparatively thin 
mixture called the sponge. This is left in a warm place until 
it is full of holes, a veritable sponge, then it is stirred down, the 
remainder of the flour added and the mass kneaded thoroly and 
left to rise. After it is light it is formed into loaves again left to 
rise until it doubles its volume and then baked. The yeast 
grows more rapidly in the thin mixture than in the stiff. The 
sponge therefore becomes light sooner than the stiff loaf. Some 
contend that the second method gives the better flavor, others 
hold that it is less work to mix the flour all in at once and therefore 
prefer the first method. There is as yet much difference of opinion 
even among good breadmakers as to which is the better method. 

AMOUNT OF MATERIALS 

In general the proportion of liquid to flour is as 1 to 3 but 
this proportion varies according to the nature of the flour. The 
hard spring wheats from which so-called bread flour is made are 
rich in gluten and therefore absorb more water than the pastry 
flour which is made from soft winter wheat and is poor in gluten. 
Therefore less flour is required for a given amount of liquid if 
bread flour is used and more if pastry flour. 

The amount of yeast to be used in making a given quantity 
of bread depends on the time to be consumed in the making of 
the bread. In the schools where it is not convenient to let it rise 
over night and where the entire process must be finished in the 
least possible time, larger amounts of yeast are used than should 
be used in the home where the time element is not so important 
a factor. If the bread is to stand over night one fourth cake 
of compressed yeast or one half cake yeast foam, to two cups of 



food: a factoe in the home 51 

liquid, under favorable conditions, give good results. With this 
amount of liquid two loaves of bread can be made. If it be de- 
sirable to complete the process in a very short time the amount of 
yeast may be doubled without any disagreeable flavor appearing 
in the bread. 

The amount of salt, sugar and shortening to be used depends 
much upon the individual taste. Excellent bread is made by 
using two tablespoons of shortening, two tablespoons sugar, two 
teaspoons salt to two cups of liquid. 

If the above general statements be summarized briefly in the 
form of a recipe it would be as follows : 

RECIPE FOR WHITE BREAD 

2 cups water. 2 teaspoons salt 

6 cups floijr. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

2 tablespoons shortening 

J cake yeast foam or J cake compressed yeast. , 

Put the yeast to soak in I cup warm water, to half the flour 
add the salt, sugar and shortening. Into the mixture pour one 
cup boiling water. Stir thoroly. Cool with | cup cold water. 
When the temperature is reduced to 90° F. or when it feels warm, 
not hot, add the yeast which has been softened in the i cup water. 
Stir until well mixed then cover and put in a warm place. If 
possible keep the temperature between 70° — 90° F. When the 
mixture is light and full of gas bubbles, stir in the remainder of the 
flour, more or less, until it is stiff enough to work with the hands. 
Then take it out on the bread board and knead until the mass 
is of a uniform consistency and is smooth and elastic to the touch. 

Enough flour must be added while kneading to keep the dough 
from sticking but care should be taken not to add too much as 
there is danger of making the dough too stiff and the bread dry. 
Put the dough well covered in a warm place and leave until it doubles 
its volume. Shape into loaves, place in greased pans, cover and 
let it again double its volume, then bake in a hot oven from 45 to 
60 minutes. If the loaves are allowed to rise too long before 
baking so much gas is produced that some of the holes become 
large and sometimes the pressure due to the increase and expansion 
of the gas is so great that the gluten wall is broken, the gas escapes 



52 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

and the bread falls. Besides this, acid fermentation is likely to 
begin when bread is left too long and a sour taste is the result. 

Care must be taken not to have the oven hot enough to burn 
the bread. The heat should be reduced during the latter part 
of the baking. Bread should be thoroly baked. 

FURTHER WORK 

After a young woman has had sufficient practice to get uni- 
formly good results from the above recipe she will be ready to 
make some experiments in modifying it, by use of milk, butter- 
milk, potatoes, etc. She will also have developed sufficient 
judgment to be able to compare different methods and determine 
which is the best. There is. an immense amount of intensely 
interesting work for young women to do along this line. 

It is hoped that through the work of the Girls' Domestic Science 
Associations and Clubs much may be done to improve the quality 
of bread used in Nebraska. Doubtless, the per cent of homes in 
which excellent bread is served is high, nevertheless the quantity 
of heavy, doughy, or sour bread consumed in Nebraska is un- 
fortunately much greater than is good for the digestion of the 
people or conducive to their happiness. 

With this purpose in view the managers of the state Domestic 
Science Association propose this year to turn the attention of 
young women to bread making. In the state contest the largest 
prizes will be offered for white bread. In this contest corn 
bread is the only other class of foods which will have a place. 

Prizes will be offered for the best hand-made and the best 
machine-made apron. 

The variety of articles to be entered at the state contest, has 
been thus greatly reduced, because it is thought that more will 
be accomplished by concentrating effort upon a few things than 
by dividing time and attention among a larger number. 



food: a factor in the home 53 



SUGGESTIONS FOR COUNTY EXHIBITS 

1. All entries should be accurately recorded in a book provided 
for the purpose. 

2. In this book there should be recorded, beside the number of 
the entry and the name and P. 0. address of the person making the 
entry, the name of the article and the class to which it belongs. 

3. Plenty of room should be provided to arrange the exhibit 
advantageously. If the tables be covered with paper the attrac- 
tiveness of the exhibit is increased. White paper is generally ' 
preferred. The articles should not be crowded together, neither 
should there be wide spaces between them. They should be so 
arranged as to make the most attractive appearance possible. 
No scraps or crumbs should be left lying about and everything 
should be neat and clean. 

4. Every article entered in the exhibit should be labeled. On 
the label should be written the name of the class and the correspond- 
ing entry number recorded in the book. These labels should be 
so securely fastened to the articles that they will not be easily 
brushed aside and lost. 

5. Articles of the same class should be placed together. In 
other words there should be one place for the white bread and 
another for the corn bread. 

6. Aprons may sometimes be displayed advantageously on the 
wall or sides of a booth. If there be colored garments, arrange 
them so that the colors will harmonize. There are some colors 
so inharmonious that they are said to quarrel with each other. 
White should be placed between such colors. 



54 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 



QUESTIONS TO ASSIST PERSONS AND CLUBS IN THE 
STUDY OF FOOD PROBLEMS 

1. Discuss the relation of food to health. What has been 
accomplished by the study of stock feeding? Is it worth while 
for women to know as much about human feeding as men know 
about stock feeding? Why? Give a brief summary of the system- 
atic study of foods. See Farmers' Bui. 142, p. 15. 

2. Why should people drink plenty of water? How may a 
sufficient amount of mineral matter be secured in the diet? What 
results follow if too little mineral matter be provided? Of what 
use is sugar and starch in food? What purposes do fats serve? 
What is the function of nitrogenous food substances and why are 
they called proteids? State in what foods each of the food principles 
may be found. What are the relative proportions in which the 
food principles should be used? What is meant by balanced 
rations? Prepare a bill of fare which shall provide balanced 
rations. How are rations likely to become unbalanced? 1st, if 
the outlay be reduced to a nainimum: 2d, if a great abundance 
of rich and attractive food be supplied? 

3. Compare the human body to a steam engine stating in what 
respects it resembles and how it differs from the engine. See 
Farmers' Bui. 142, p. 8. Upon what does the value of food 
for nutriment depend? Farmers' Bui. 142, p. 15. Compare 
foods with respect to the relative market value of their nutritive 
ingredients. See Farmers' Bui. 142, pp. 39-44. 

4. Compare cereals with other food producing plants as to 
general characteristics and value of food material. Compare 
cereals with each other as to fat and proteid content. 

6. Discuss the production of cereals in U. S. How does Nebraska 
compare with other states in the production of cereals? 

6. Classify breakfast foods as to origin and also as to method 
of manufacture. What has been the effect of the extensive intro- 
duction of breakfast foods? Should their use be encouraged or 
discouraged? Why? Considered from a money point of view 
how do cereals compare with other classes of food in suppl3dng di- 



food: a factor in the home 55 

gestible nutrients? Farmers' Bui. 249, p. 30. Do you considei 
their use economical or extravagant? 

7. Give reasons for cooking food. What principles should be 
observed in cooking? 

8. How does cooking render cereals more digestible? What 
kinds of cereals require long cooking? Why? Why may rice 
be cooked in a comparatively short time? Make a list of cereals 
arranging them according to the amounts of digestible nutrients 
they contain, putting the richest first; the next in value second, 
and so on. 

9. Compare oatmeal cooked one half hour with that cooked 
three hours. Which has the better flavor? Give different methods 
of preparing cereals for the table. Give the names of cereals used 
in your home. Name others not used. 

10. What are the advantages of the double boiler? Devise and 
describe a substitute to be used in homes where double boilers 
are not available. 

11. Make a fireless cooker and try cooking in it cereals, also other 
foods. Report your results to your club, also to the Home Econom- 
ics Department of the University. 

12. Compare the different recipes you have used in making corn 
bread and state which give the best results. Make a list of the 
different foods you have prepared from corn and give directions 
for the preparation of each. 

13. What are the general methods of making bread light? 
Discuss the action of yeast as a leavening agent, in the following 
order (a) describe the plants, (b) what do they require for nourish- 
ment, ( c ) what conditions are favorable to their growth, ( d ) 
how do they affect the glucose (e) what gas is formed and what 
purposfe does it serve in bread making? What forms of yeast 
have you used, and which do you prefer? 

14. Prepare some gluten by washing the starch out of a piece 
of dough. Describe the gluten and explain what purpose it serves 
in the production of white bread. Why is it necessary to knead 
the dough? 

15. Have you ever used a bread mixer? If so give your opinion 
as to whether satisfactory results may be secured with it. 



56 THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

16. In the baking of bread what changes are brought about 
in the dough by the heat? 

17. What do you consider the requisites of good bread? Explain 

fully. 

18. Give in full your method of making bread. Have you ever 
tried another method? If so tell what it is and explain why you 
prefer your own method. 

REFERENCES HELPFUL IN THE STUDY OF FOOD 
PROBLEMS 

'Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food by W. O. 
Atwater,. Farmers' Bui. 142, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

^Bul. 28 (revised) U. S. Dept. Agr. Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions. 

^Cereal Breakfast Foods. Bui. 84 Agr. Exp. Sta. Orono, Maine. 

'Cereal Breakfast Foods by Charles D.Woods and Harry Snyder, 
Farmers' Bui. 249, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

^Studies on Bread and Bread Making by Harry Snyder and L. A. 
Voorhees, Bui. 67, U. S. Dept. Agr. Office of Experiment Stations. 

* Bread and the Principles of Bread Making, bv Helen W. 
Atwater, Farmers' Bui. 112, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

Fireless cook stoves by G. H. Murphy, Sci. Am. 95. 208-9 S. 
22. '06. 

Cooking Without Fire by G. J. Jones, Sci. Am. 95: 380 N. 24, 
'06. 

Hay Cooker. Reading Course for Farmers' Wives. Series 
5, No. 23 p. 446. , 

Fireless Cooker. Principles of Cookery by Anna Barrows, 
pp. 12-13, 152. 

The Fireless Cooker. Amer. Agr., 79 (1907) No. 1, p. 27. 

Fireless Cooking by H. G. Sharpe, Rpt. Commis. Gen. (U. S. 
Army) 1906 pp. 14-18. 

'May be obtained free by writing U. S. Dept. of Agr. Washington, D. C. 
' May be obtained by writing U. S. Dept. of Agr. ofiBce of Exp. Sta., Wash- 
ington, D. C. 
«May be obtained by writing Agr. Exp. Sta., Orono, Maine. 



Cornell University Library 
TX 355.B7 

Food:a factor in the home. Cereals and h 



3 1924 003 533 910 



!li! 



