i 



^jy 

^A^ 



J 



— o 



THE HOSTESS 

OF 

TODAY 




BY 



LINDA HULL LAKNf:4[) 




ALBERT R. MANN LIBI^RY 

Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 





^x-^^'-^r -- - 




'r^a 


^ 


"(^^Tr 


^cf 




<Lm^ 




^€e? 





From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 



^^^in 








LIBRARY 

in 

04 1 


^^^^QU 


S' lO 














^^'~ 


^^^CO 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085804825 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 






CharUa Sertbner's 8«nfr 



TROW DIRECTORY 

fRINTlNQ AND BOOKBINDINQ COMPMf 

NEW YORK 





O-"/ 





THE purpose of this book is to assist the 
house-keeper and hostess in selecting a 
menu suitable for the most elaborate repast 
or the simplest meal ; to enable her to esti- 
mate the cost of either at average market 
prices — allowing for local differences; to 
know how to prepare and serve each dish 
and to provide a quantity sufficient for six 
persons. 

It is not designed to instruct beginners 
in minute details pertaining to the proper 
preparation of dishes in daily use, or the 
entire duties of a waitress. These depart- 
ments have already been ably treated by 
other writers. 

The author's intention is to put before 
her readers a book which will enable them 
to practise both economy and hospitality, 
and to make it possible for the inexperi- 




PREFACE 

enced to calculate exactly the cost of a projected entertainment, 
how to cook, it and how to serve it. This may be accomplished 
by learning thoroughly the resources and average prices of local 
markets. 

Many house-keepers with small incomes wish to gather their 
friends around their tables, but hesitate to do so because of the 
incalculable expense of both time and money ; this book has 
been compiled to meet such a difficulty, and to show that 
guests can be lunched or dined in a dainty and charming man- 
ner at a very moderate cost and a small expenditure of time, 
which is of much importance to the busy house-keeper of 
to-day. 

Ordinary dishes are supposed to be familiar to every house- 
keeper, so that directions for many such are here omitted. Re- 
cipes requiring elaborate preparation and much ornamentation 
are either simplified or omitted altogether. 

Effort has been made to give recipes a little out of the ordi- 
nary, such as one may like to place before guests who recog- 
nize and appreciate the finer effects of seasoning and serving. 
Most beginners in house-keeping have been so engrossed with 
school duties and the business of getting an education, that the 
minor details of serving a meal have escaped their observation. 
The few hints about serving contained in this little book will, 
it is hoped, meet this emergency. There is also an attempt to 
assist the novice in selecting recipes which harmonize, where it 
is thought necessary to serve two or more dishes in the same 
course. 

The Index gives the price as well as the name of each dish, 
so that in planning an entertainment one can readily select a 
menu within the sum apportioned. 




Cl^RY recipe in this book is sufficient for six per- 
sons, all measurements are level, and one cupful 
is half a pint. 

A "Cover" is the place at table for each guest and should 
consist of the plate, napkin, knives, forks, spoons, and glasses 
nece^ary for the meal. 

A " Service " plate is placed on the table before guests are 
seated and is not removed until the first hot course after soup. 

Table linen should be laundered without starch and ironed 
while very damp. Table-cloths should be folded once in iron- 
ing and rolled on a stick or laid in loose folds to avoid creases. 
Napkins should be folded four times in ironing, then folded 
once more with the hand to hold the bread or roll, and should 
be placed at the left of the forks. If a service plate is not used, 
put the napkin holding bread in its place directly in front of 
each guest. 

To saute means to cook in a very small amount of butter, 
fat, or oil until brown, in a frying or saute pan. 

vii 



HINTS TO THE NOVICE 

To fry means to plunge into deep, hot fat and cook until 
brown. Always use a wire basket for this purpose, only cover 
the bottom of the basket with articles to be fried and do not 
have them touch each other. 

To crumb and fry means to dip in crumbs, which must be 
dry and powdered fine, then in slightly beaten egg mixed with 
very little water and in crumbs again, then plunge into deep, 
hot fat and cook until brown. Test fat by dropping in a small 
piece of bread; it should brown in 1 minute for uncooked 
mixtures and in 40 seconds for cooked mixtures. 

To crumb means to cover with fine crumbs and bits of 
butter and brown in the oven, or cover with crumbs which 
have been sauted in butter until brown, and place in oven for a 
moment. The proportion to use is }4 c. crumbs to 1 tbsp. 
butter. The latter method is the most satisfactory if done 
properly. 

Use pastry flour for pastry and all baking-powder mixtures ; 
for everything else use bread flour. 

Croutons for soup: Cut buttered bread into j^-inch cubes 
and brown in the oven. 

To lard meat, poultry, or sweetbreads : Draw strips of pork 
through meat with larding needle, which may be bought for 
the purpose, or it may be done at the market by an experienced 
butcher. 

Serving from the side means from the butler's pantry or 
from a table behind a screen. 

To marinate means to mix with an oil or vinegar dressing, in 
which the article is left for a certain time. 

Everj^hing pertaining or belonging to one course should be 
removed before the next course is served, except the wine- 
glasses. These should remain on the table from the beginning 



HINTS TO THE NOVICE 

to the end, the only exception being the glasses for cordials and 
liqueurs, which are served after the coflfee, which is sometimes 
served in the drawing-room. 

In removing a course take large dishes or platters first, then 
the plates and silver from each "cover." The carving knife 
and fork should be side by side on the platter. 

Every dish should be passed to the left with the handle of 
the serving spoon or fork on the side toward the guest and 
within 4 or 5 inches of the table, so that guests may help them- 
selves without reaching. Plates containing individual portions 
should be placed from the right and removed from the right. 

The foundation of all dinners should be soup, meat, and 
vegetables, salad and dessert. Of luncheons, soup in cups, meat 
or fish entree, salad, and a sweet. All other courses may be 
added at discretion. 

Bread, butter, rolls, bread -sticks, and water should never 
be asked for. A careful waitress will see that these are well 
supplied. 

The hand-tray should be covered with a doily, clean ones 
being at hand to replace soiled ones. This is to avoid the noise 
and clatter of dishes. 

In preparing for an entertainment the hostess would save 
time and avoid confusion by making two copies of the menu, 
one for the butlei 's pantry, containing directions for serving, and 
the other for the kitchen, giving details and recipes for cooking 
and the time each course should be ready for serving. 

Attention is called to the special mention of dishes which 
may be prepared several hours before serving or final cooking, 
thereby enabling the hostess to give the artistic touch which 
would be lost if obliged to crowd them in with the necessary 
things which always seem to multiply at the last moment. 




PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. 

THESE recipes are divided into sections containing ingredi- 
ents required, under the headings A, B, C, etc., followed 
by method or rule for combining, cooking, and serving. In 
many cases the method is given at the beginning of sections 
containing a number of recipes so similar that it would be 
needless to repeat them, as the general directions are sufficient. 
The abbreviations are : 



c. for cupful or j^ pint, 
qt. for quart, 
pt. for pint, 
doz. for dozen. 



tbsp. for tablespoonful. 
tsp. for teaspoonful. 
lb. for pound, 
m. for minute. 



Wherever possible recipes are represented by measurements. 




Hints to the Novice . . . . rii 

Explanation of Method li 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS: 

The Formal Dinner .... 1 

The Informal Dinner .... 11 

The Formal Luncheon ... 13 

The Informal Luncheon .... .14 

Some Beginnings 17 

Soups 24 

Fish 42 

Shell Fish 53 

Sauces for Fish 62 

Entrees of Meats and Poultry . 67 

Hot Entries 68 

Cold Entrees 83 

Garnishinga for Entries ... 87 

Sauces for Meats and Vegetables 90 

Hot Sauces 90 

Cold Sauces 98 

Fruit Relishes 9t^ 

Piece de Resistance 102 

Meats . 10., 

Poultry 112 






h 



CONTENTS 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS— Continued: paob 

Entrees of Vegetables 117 

Shebbets 136 

Game 140 

Salads ISl 

Eggs and Cheese 167 

Dessebts 174 

Cold Desserts 175 

Pastry 183 

Hot Desserts 189 

Pudding Sauces 197 

Fbozbn Ceeams, Ices, and Feapp£s 202 

Cakes 212 

Cake, in Loaves 212 

Cake, in Layers 216 

Small Cakes 217 

Afternoon Tea Cakes 219 

Cake Fillings 224 

Frostiugs 227 

Coffee and Cosdlals .... 229 

Hot Beverages and Cold Drinks 233 

Some Accessories 238 

Sandwiches . . 242 

Savory Sandwiches 242 

Sweet Sandwiches 247 

Flavored Butters 248 

FIVE O'CLOCK FUNCTIONS 252 

EVENING COLLATIONS 255 

CHAFING DISS CREATIONS 259 

INDEX. . 281 



PE^^^W* 


SlEdg 


iPfO 






■' jr;:^-i:? ^.A-^i?^^. 1;^ 






||H*'[||RlVdmuAI .^^■^kDRTHnniBH^HIIIPSfS^Q^fJa 


m 

bJ^ 


H 



" "With a few friends, and a few dishes dine, 
And much of mirth and moderate wine." 

— COWLET. 



THE FORMAL DINNER 

A DINNER of twelve or more covers, to whicli formal 
invitations have been sent, should consist of eight to 
twelve courses, rather less than more. Careful atten- 
tion should be given to the selection of each course 
that it wiU so harmoniously blend with the others 
that the result may be a gastronomic symphony. 

Although violent contrasts must be offered to pique 
the appetite, the dinner should rise from a mild be- 
ginning, gradually increasing in force until the piece 
de resistance, or roast, is reached, then should dain- 
tily descend to the dessert ; and with the coffee and 
cordials will come the satisfaction to the diner that 
he has been gloriously entertained, but not repleted. 

The fastidious individuality of the hostess should 
always be en evidence, and one with many servants 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

may, with propriety, make this a most elaborate 
affair ; but with a little forethought in selecting a 
menu containing dishes which may be prepared in 
advance, some even the day before, the inexperienced 
house-keeper will be able to offer her guests a dainty 
repast, pleasing to the eye as well as to the palate, 
with a small number of assistants — one to cook, one 
or two to serve, and one to lend a hand will be all 
that are necessary. The experienced house-keeper, 
however, wUl be equal to the occasion with even less 
assistance if she will give her attention to a few well- 
selected courses cooked to perfection and daintily 
served. Avoid ostentation ; remember that simplicity 
is the ruling spirit of the day. There have been so 
many excellent books written giving directions for 
the care of the dining-room and its accessories that 
many details will not be mentioned here. The writer's 
intention is only to suggest to the young house-keeper 
the best and simplest methods of arranging a table 
and of serving and removing each course. 

The cover and arrangement of the table are of the 
utmost importance, as the slightest departure from 
mathematical regularity and immaculate cleanliness 
is slovenly and must not be tolerated by our hostess 
of to-day. 

A round, square, or oblong table covered with a 

thick cotton-flannel cloth or pad under a fine linen 

damask without crease or wrinkle, and the best you 

can afford, is the first requisite. On rare occasions 

this cloth may be of satin damask or of handsome 

lace over satin, but if this is attempted, all of 

2 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 

the table appointments must be equally "smart," 
and the dinner itself must be an epicure's dream. 
Whether this cloth be simple or sumptuous, it must 
bang over at least a quarter of a yard on every 
side. 

The place for each guest and the necessary plate, 
knives, forks, glasseSj etc., constitute the cover.. 




The Cover. 



The next consideration is this cover or place for 
each guest. Allow at least twenty inches for every 
person, and more, for elbow room, if you can spare it. 
At each cover place the best ten-inch plate you have ; 
this is called the service-plate and should be placed 
on the table before dinner is announced, to be left on 
until the fish or first hot course after the soup is 
served. It is now considered good form always to 

3 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

have a plate in front of each guest until dessert, but 
this is an unimportant detail and depends somewhat 
upon the number of servants ; the hostess should suit 
her own convenience. The service-plate should be 
placed exactly in the middle of the space allotted to 
each person, and about an inch from the edge of the 
table. Place at the right of the service-plate as many- 
knives as will be required before the dessert, each one 
with the sharp edge turned toward the plate and in 
the order in which they will be needed, beginning at 
the extreme right. At the right of the knives place 
the spoon for soup, which should be a table-spoon or 
soup-spoon, with the inside of the bowl turned up ; 
then the oyster-fork or small fork for canapes. At 
the left place as many forks as will be needed before 
the dessert, unless you are to have many courses, when 
too much small silver would look like display. Place 
forks in the order in which they are to be used, the 
fish-fork at the extreme left and the entree fork next ; 
then the fork for the roast, which, of course, should 
be the largest ; then the fork for game or salad, all 
with the tines turned up, the last fork close to the 
plate. If sherbet is served it is a temptation, if you 
have choice spoons, to place them on the table from 
the beginning, but it is in better taste to have them 
on the plates with the sherbet. If on the table they 
should be outside of the oyster-fork, or for a luncheon 
in front of the service-plate, as there are not so many 
glasses to take the room. If more knives or forks are 
required, they may be quietly placed at the covers 
just before the course needing them is served. If 

4 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 

there are not many courses, the dessert fork and spoon 
may be on the table from the beginning. Place the 
fork next to the plate with the other forks, and the 
spoon in front of the plate beneath the sherbet-spoon 
if it be used. 

At the upper right hand of the plate, near the cen- 
tre, place a goblet for water ; then place the wine- 
glasses in the order in which they are to be used, 
beginning near the points of the knives, reaching to 
the goblet in a semi-circle. If many wines are served, 
a double semi-circle may be formed, beginning with 
the sherry-glass and ending with the goblet. (See 
diagram of cover.) 

The napkins should be large and of fine quality. 
They should be folded in ironing four times ; then 
when ready to use fold them once with the hand, 
slipping between the folds, but in sight, a dinner-roll, 
bread-stick, or piece of bread cut two inches long by 
one and a half thick. Place the napkins at the left 
of the forks if there is space, otherwise place them 
on the service-plate. 

If dinner-cards are used, and they usually are for 
convenience in seating the guests, they should be 
placed upon the napkin. These cards may be plain 
and small, with only the name of the guest written 
upon them, or they may have also in the upper left- 
hand corner or centre the monogram or initials of 
the hostess, or a dainty hand painting ; any of these 
are correct and in good taste. 

An allowable exception to the general rule of "no 
furbelows" is the name of the guest in silver or gilt 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lettering on the end of a ribbon. This ribbon may be 
narrow and tied around a bunch of flowers, or it may 
be broad and laid flat between the covers, the other 
end connected with a basket or bunch of flowers, 
these bunches or baskets forming the centre-piece, 
which, of course, is demolished when the repast is 
over. Let it be thoroughly understood, however, that 
these favors are only for ladies. 

Menu- cards are seldom used at small dinners, un- 
less there is an artistic or amusing feature to be illus- 
trated ; men and women are expected to be sufficient- 
ly entertaining to require no literary or childish aids 
to conversation. The practical object of the menu- 
card is to give guests an opportunity to save capacity 
for specially delectable courses, but this will not be 
necessary in the dainty dinners which our hostess 
will give. 

Much attention should be given to the selection of 
guests and placing of name-cards at the covers to 
insure a successful and harmonious entertainment. 
There should be good listeners as well as fine talkers, 
and here the tact of the hostess is called into play 
to avoid anything like a contretemps. The hostess 
should either tell each gentleman, as he is received, 
the name of the particular lady he is to take out to 
dinner, or the name should be written on a small card 
and placed in an envelope addressed to the gentleman 
and put in a conspicuous place in the dressing-room ; 
R. or L. in corner of card designating the side of table 
on entering room. When dinner is announced, the 
host offers his arm to the lady for whom the dinner is 

6 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 

given, or the one who is to be seated at his right, fol- 
lowed by the guests, the hostess closing the procession 
with the gentleman to be honored or the one whom she 
intends seating at her right hand. 

A few hints regarding the decoration of the table 
must be given here, though the fashion of to-day may 
be out of date to-morrow. Perhaps one feels inclined 
to be in touch with the latest whim, especially if it has 
a raison d^etre. Extreme simplicity, and a desire for 
artistic effect combined with the practical, is the order 
of the day. The appearance of millinery must be 
avoided, consequently lace and ribbon furbelows are 
not used for the adornment of the table. A centre-piece 
of fine linen, or the flowers in the pattern of the table- 
cloth, exquisitely and delicately embroidered— or a fine 
linen, with insertion and border of heavy altar-lace, 
and glass or silver bowls and vases filled with an ar- 
tistic arrangement of flowers and vines — are a sufficient 
embellishment for the most elaborate feast, although 
small bunches of flowers, or single flowers placed at 
each cover, are a delicate attention much appreciated 
by the ladies, and in perfectly good taste. Let the 
hand of madame be manifest, and beware of the wiles 
of the florist. Small silver or glass dishes, containing 
relishes, bonbons, and salted nuts, are usually placed 
on the table, though fashion decrees now that their 
place is on the side-table ; but with the possession of 
antique silver and Venetian glass one may dare to be 
a little less up to date. The same may be said of 
choice decanters and coasters — one can hardly be ex- 
pected to put them out of sight. It is scarcely neces- 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

sary to say that butter-plates should not be placed on 
the table at a formal repast. It is supposed that care 
has been taken to supply each course with all require- 
ments in the way of seasoning and sauces, and condi- 
ments are served as they are needed. 

An important feature of the entertainment is the il- 
lumination, and it requires more serious consideration 
than is usually given it. Unless the hostess is in the 
first flush of youth, and her guests are all equally for- 
tunate, she should eschew all abominations in the way 
of glaring, unshaded ceiling lights, whether of gas or 
electricity. The most effective and artistic illumina- 
tion is a soft light from candles or lamps, not higher 
than the head of the tallest guest, and if this is not 
sufficient, it should come from the sides of the room, 
or from a low, shaded centre chandelier, and never from 
near the ceiling, high over the heads of the guests. 
Such a light, which always throws sad shadows upon 
the faces of beautiful women, makes mournful the 
most joyous occasion. 

There are two ways of serving a formal dinner, both 
equally "good form," and the one chosen should de- 
pend upon the convenience and taste of the hostess. 
The most formal way, and perhaps the most conven- 
ient, if there is the helping hand in the butler's pan- 
try, is to serve each course from the pantry neatly 
arranged on individual plates, the butler or waitress 
having the tray in the left hand, putting the plate con- 
taining the portion upon it, taking it to the right side 
of each guest, and with the right hand placing it upon 
the service plate until after the soup or bouillon course 

8 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 

which is removed with the service plate, then setting 
it in front of the guest and close to the edge of the 
table. Then, if anything is to be served with the 
course, it should be placed on the tray and passed to 
the left side of each guest, being held low enough to 
enable the guest to help himself with his right hand. 

If it is desired to follow the fashionable method of 
always having a plate before each guest until dessert, 
then the tray should be dispensed with in placing the 
course. Remove from the right with the left hand and 
place the following course or empty plate with the right 
hand also from the right. Guests should be served in 
rotation, beginning alternately at the right and left of 
the host and hostess, going in opposite direction for 
each successive course. 

The other and more simple way of serving is to have 
the course artistically arranged and cut in small pieces 
on a large dish or platter, accompanied by the neces- 
sary serving-spoon, knife, or fork, and put on a tray, 
or, if too large, held in the hands carefully and offered 
to the left of each guest — of course, after plates, knives, 
or forks for the course have been placed. To remove 
each course, wait until everyone has finished, then 
take the tray in the left hand and with the right hand 
remove the plate from the right, placing it on the tray. 
If the knife or fork is accidentally left on the table 
by a thoughtless guest, it should be taken up quietly 
and put on the plate on the tray. Do not remove more 
than one plate at a time, or all belonging to the course 
at each cover. It is very bad form to pile one plate on 
top of another when clearing the table. If it is not 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

convenient to take so much time, dispense with the 
tray and take one plate in each hand, thus removing 
two at a time. Remember this is the formal dinner, 
and there is supposed to be plenty of time and numer- 
ous servants. 

Wine should be poured into the glasses from the 
right, and should follow the serving of each course. 

Black coffee in small cups, followed by cordials in 
tiny glasses, is the last course, and should precede the 
finger-bowls, unless the fashionable method is ob- 
served of serving coffee and cordials to the ladies in 
the drawing-room, while the gentlemen are left at the 
table to become anecdotal over their cigars and their 
liqueurs ; then the finger-bowls should be placed be- 
fore the ladies leave the table. 

It is considered quite " smart " in some social circles 
to serve cocktails just before dinner is announced or im-, 
mediately after the guests are seated at table, and this 
appetizer is a twin to the fashion of cigarette-smok- 
ing during the dinner and after by the ladies ; but our 
hostess of to-day will lose no friends by excluding this 
pair of bohemians from her dinners and luncheons. 

There are two things to remember — that guests are 
invited for social intercourse, and that the machinery of 
serving should run so smoothly and quietly that there 
vidll be no interruption to the conversation. The most 
successful entertainment is the one that is so simply 
and quietly served as to be beyond criticism. The nat- 
ural desire to exhibit rare possessions of silver and glass 
should be the only excuse for departing from the fash- 
ion of the hour, which, let me repeat, is simplicity. 

10 



DINNERS. AND LUNCHEONS 



THE INFORMAL DINNER 

The informal dinner, or the family dinner with the 
addition of two or more guests, should be served almost 
like the formal dinner by the hostess having several 
servants. The few exceptions are that the soup may 
be served by the hostess from a tureen on the table, 
the assistant taking one soup-plate at a time from the 
sideboard, placing it in front of the hostess, then when 
filled placing it on the service-plate of each guest from 
the right. Fish may be served by the host, and passed 
in the same manner as the soup. Large platters should 
always be used when carving is done at the table ; if this 
is not convenient, then a carving-napkin may be on 
the table in front of the host from the beginning, to be 
left on until the table is cleared for dessert. Entrees 
are always served from the side, and the roast is carved 
by the host. All vegetables and sauces are placed on 
the side-table and passed to the left of each guest 
when required. The host or hostess makes the salad, 
and the hostess serves the dessert and pours out the 
coffee. Coffee should be placed at the lower right 
hand of the guest, and cream and sugar passed to the 
left. The bonbons and relishes may be upon the 
table and the number of courses should be less than 
for a formal dinner. Really this is the dinner that 
should be served every day by the ambitious house- 
keeper, no change being necessary for an extra guest 
or two. The service of wine is entirely a matter of 

choice or opinion. Both formal and informal dinners 

11 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

are in equally good taste without wine as with it. As 
very few persons are able to partake of every dish that 
is offered them, the same may be said of wine. Ex- 
perienced diners will always refuse anything that is 
to them especially injurious, and are expected to do 
so, but it is bad form to parade one's objections; a 
quiet refusal by a glance or a motion is all that is 
necessary. 

The suggestions given thus far are for house-keepers 
with more than one servant. Realizing that there are 
many would-be hostesses who are fortunate enough to 
be able to run the domestic machine with one maid- 
of-all-work, the following suggestions are for their 
benefit : 

The table should be set as for the informal dinner, 
but it is well to remember that there is only one pair 
of hands to do both cooking and serving. The service- 
plate should be omitted, all the knives and forks to be 
used may be put on the table, salts and peppers at the 
corners of the table, or one of each for every two per- 
sons. Small round plates for the butter-ball and slice 
of bread or dinner-roll which should be put on be- 
fore dinner is announced, are placed at the left of 
each cover, and the small butter-knife, if one is used, 
placed on the plate with the bread. Goblets should be 
filled with iced water, and everything needed should 
be on the side table before guests are seated. De- 
canters, bonbons, and relishes may all be on the table 
from the beginning. The plates for each course 
served on the table should be placed in a low pile, 
not more than three or four at a time, in front of 

13 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 

the host or hostess, the maid taking each one as it 
is filled, putting it on her tray and placing it in 
front of each guest from the right with the right 
hand. 

Further suggestions will be given with each course, 
but the writer would advise an ambitious house- 
keeper, who wishes to understand thoroughly all of 
the details of the business of house-keeping, to secure 
some of the books making a specialty of each subject 
and to study them. A particularly good one is 
"The National Cook Book," by Marion Harland and 
Christine Terhune Herrick. 

This work is only an attempt to awaken the average 
house-keeper to the fact that she can serve her famUy 
and entertain her friends without drudgery and vrith- 
out extravagance. It only requires brain, good taste, 
and tact to make the home a veritable Garden of 
Eden, only our modern Eve saut§s or souffles the ap- 
ple before she gives it to Adam. It was undoubtedly 
a fit of indigestion from eating raw food which caused 
the first Adam to "peach." 

THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 

The formal luncheon is served like the formal 

dinner, with the following exceptions : If the table is 

of very handsome wood, without scratch or blemish, 

it may be left bare, using small doilies under the 

plates and dishes, and a centre-piece. This is a rare 

opportunity to display artistic embroideries, but the 

fine damask table-cloth is always in good taste and 

13 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

there is a faint rumor that the bare mahogany ia 
going out of style. 

When luncheon is announced, the hostess asks her 
friends to follow her to the dining-room, without for- 
mality. 

The soup is served in two-handled cups, the heavy 
roast or piece de resistance is omitted generally, and 
very few vegetables are served. The hostess may 
serve the salad, the dessert, and the coffee, although 
these are more often served from the side. Wines are 
not always offered, and never more than one or two 
kinds. Sauterne being the favorite wine for ladies' 
luncheons, an opportunity is given to exhibit rare and 
daintily colored glass. A fruit, tea, or wine punch is 
often served in the place of wine. It is poured from 
handsome glass or silver pitchers, and cordials are 
served after the coflfee, which is served at table. 

THE INFORMAL LUNCHEON 

This is the ordinary every-day luncheon, and is like 
the informal dinner, except that no roasts are served. 
Tea may be served by the hostess, with the tea-pot, 
sugar-bowl, cream- jug, and cups and saucers neatly 
arranged on a large tray under a cloth, or the tray 
may be omitted, using only the cloth or napkin. 

Two or more courses may be served, all of the 
dishes for the first course neatly arranged on the table 
and the second course, the sweets and cakes, placed 
on the side table ready for use, followed by finger- 
bowls and fruit. These suggestions seem so unneces- 

14 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 

sary and such every-day affairs that many will won- 
der why they are put in this book, but most 
house-keepers will appreciate the fact that these 
simple instructions have to be told over and over 
again to the new waitress or maid-of-all-work, and 
if putting this book into the hands of the pupil 
will save the weary Jiaus-frau a few hours of pre- 
cious time, worthy of something better, its object will 
have been accomplished. 



15 




These dishes are usually served as a first course 
at dinners or luncheons, and are supposed to be 
appetizers. 

At the formal dinner or luncheon they are placed on 
the service-plate after the guests are seated. At the 
informal meal they may be brought in before the meal 
is announced, or they may be placed after the guests 
are seated. Only serve one of the dishes in each 
course, and avoid all through the meal repetition 
of food or flavor. 

Canapes are sometimes served instead of oysters, 
but at a formal dinner or luncheon they usually 
precede the oysters, this being the only exception to 
this rule. If you serve oysters as a first course, do 
not serve them again during the dinner 
or luncheon. Tiny sandwiches of entire 
wheat, graham, or brown bread and butter 
or dainty biscuits or crackers are served 
with raw oysters and clams ; also fringed 
celery, trimmed radishes, or cress may ac- 
company " Some Beginnings." 

After this course is served, fill the glasses three- 
quarters full with Sauterne from a glass pitcher or 
decanter. 

17 





THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



OYSTERS AND CLAMS 

No. I. Oysters on the Half Shell. 6o cts. 

A : 3 doz. small oysters. Blue Points if possible, in the 

shell and ice cold ; 

B : 2 lemons cut in quarters ; 

C : Salt, pepper, cayenne, horse-radish or Tabasco sauce. 

Open A, loosen oysters, leave them on lower shell ; place 
on oyster-plates or ordinary plates filled with shaved ice ; put 
B in centre of each plate and serve with C. Kaw oysters are 
suitable for any meal but breakfast. 



No. 2. Little Neck Qams. /fo cts. 

A : 3 doz. Little Neck clams in shell and ice cold. 
Follow recipe No. 1, using clams instead of oysters. 

No. J. Raw Oysters. 50 cts. 

A : 1 qt. oysters, best quality, not too large, very cold 

and thoroughly clean ; 

B : Vinegar Sauce No. 161. 

Take a large block of ice,- melt out a cavity with a hot flat- 
iron, pour out water and fill with A, or serve A from a large 
glass dish into small dishes, with a spoonful of B poured over 
each one. Suitable for luncheon or supper. 

No.^ 4. Raw Qams. 24. cts. 

A : 1 qt. Prince's Bay clams, ice cold. 

Follow recipe No. 3, using clams instead of oysters. 

18 



SOME BEGINNINGS 



No. 5- 



Oyster Gxktails. 



JO cts. 




A : 2 doz. small oysters or 1 pt. 
oysters out into small pieces, ice 
cold; 

B : 1 tbsp. horse-radish, \ tsp. 
Tabasco sauce, 1 tbsp. vinegar, 
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, 2 
tbsp. lemon-juice, 1 tbsp. tomato 
catsup, \ tsp. salt ; mix and place 
on ice an hour before needed. 

Put A in 6 small glasses, add 1 tbsp. 
of B to each glass, or fill grape-fruit, lemon-shells or tomato- 
cups, adding the pulp to B. 

No. 6. Clam Cocktails. 20 cts. 

A : 3 doz. Little N^eck or 1 pt. Prince's Bay clams. 
Follow recipe No. 5, using clams instead of oysters. 



CANAPES 

Canapes are savories or appetizers usually served before the 
first course at dinners and luncheons, and often in the place 
of oysters or clams. They should be served on very small 
plates and placed at each cover. At a gentlemen's dinner 
they are sometimes served to the guests in the drawing-room 
or library just before dinner is announced, accompanied by a 
glass of sherry or a cocktail, but when ladies are present, this 
attention is quite sensibly omitted. 

Method. 

Cut six thin slices of bread into small oval or oblong pieces, 
toast, fry in hot fat, saut6 in butter, or dip in melted butter 
and slightly brown in the oven, spread with any of the Fla< 
vored Butters or plain butter, cover with a relish or savory, 
and garnish. They may be served hot or cold. 

19 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No,, y. Anchovy Canapes. 40 cts^ 

A : Anchovy Batter No. 765 or plain butter, and 6 whole 
anchovies ; 

B : 2 hard-boiled eggs, whites chopped, yolks put through 
coarse sieve, 6 olives and 13 capers chopped fine. 

Spread toast with A and garnish with B. Serve cold. 

No. 8. Caviar Canapes. jo cts. 

A : Caviar Butter No. 766. 

B : J c. water-cress chopped fine. 

Spread toast with A and garnish with B. Serve cold. 

No. g. Cheese Canapes. 75 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. Parmesan cheese ; 

B : 2 tbsps. dairy cheese grated, 3 tbsps. cooked ham 

chopped very fine, or deviled ham. 

Dip bread in melted butter, then in A, cover with B, brown 
in oven and serve hot. 

No. 10. Lobster Canapes. 2^ cts. 

A : Lobster Batter No. 772, or 3 tbsps. plain butter and 
the lobster coral dried in oven and mashed smooth ; 
B : 1 e. lobster-meat cut very fine, marinated \ an hour 
in 1 tbsp. lemon Juice, 2 tbsps. olive oil, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. 
paprica or cayenne. 

Spread bread with A, then with B. Serve cold. 

No. II. Crab Canapes. JO cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. Cheese Butter No. 767. 
B : 1 c. crab-meat cut very fine, marinated \ an hour in 
2 tbsps. olive oil, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, \ tsp. each of mus- 
tard, salt, and paprica. 

Spread toast with A, then with B. Serve cold. 

20 



SOME BEGINNINGS 



No. 12. Oyster Canapes. 20 cts. 

A : 10 large oysters cut in pieces, rejecting the hard 
muscle ; 1 tbsp. capers, 1 tbsp. encumber pickles chopped, 
2 tbsps. horse-radish, salt and pepper ; 
B : f c. of Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 and 3 tsps. 
Worcestershire sauce. 

Mix A, spread browned bread, cover with B and serve cold. 

No. I J. Sardine Canapes. 20 cts. 

A : Sardine Butter No. 776 or anchovy paste ; 

B : 3 olives, 3 gherkins chopped, 3 sardines split in two 

and bones removed. 

Spread bread with A, garnish with B, sprinkle with lemon- 
juice and serve hot or cold. 

No. I^. Sweet-bread Canapes. j£ cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsps. pat6 de foi gras or chopped 
cucumber ; 

B : 3 tbsps. blanched sweet-breads, 1 tbsp. celery, 1 
tbsp. pepper-grass all chopped fine, 3 tbsps. Mayonnaise 
Dressing No. 437, highly seasoned. 

Spread bread with A, cover with B. Serve cold. Cold 
cooked asparagus-points may be used as a garnish. 

No. 75. Tomato Canap^ 25 cts. 

A : 6 slices raw tomato ; 

B : 3 tbsps. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 ; 

C : 6 whole anchovies, 6 chopped olives. 

Put A on toast, add C in centre, garnish edges with B. 
Serve cold. 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



FRUITS 

Fruits may be served instead of oysters, clams, or canapes 
at breakfast or luncheon, and only at a summer dinner. 

Method. 

Cut grape-fruit and oranges into halves or in form of bas- 
kets, the edges may be cut into points ; remove pulp, inside 
skin and seeds ; add pulp to fruit filling, or serve the fruit 
mixture in small fancy dishes or sherbet glasses. Wine jelly 
in tiny moulds or cut in squares may be mixed with the fruit. 

No. i6. Grape-fntit Shells. 60 cts. 

A : 3 grape-fruit cut in two crosswise ; 
B : 1 pt. fresh strawberries cut into halves, 1 mandarin 
or tangerine quartered and cut in bits, 2 bananas cut 
in small dice, 1 c. brandied or Maraschino cherries cut 
in halves, 1 c. white grapes skinned, cut in halves and 
seeded, 2 tbsps. Maraschino or sherry, J c. powdered 
sugar, and 1 tbsp. rum. 

Prepare A (see Fruits), fill with B, serve very cold, or 
freeze B before filling. Serve on small glass or china plates 
covered with lace, paper, or fine linen doilies, with orange 
spoon or teaspoon. 

Grape-fruit Baskets with Grapes. jo cts, 

A : 3 grape-fruit cut in two cross-wise ; 
B : Bunch Malaga or hot-house grapes, 
skinned and seeded. 

Remove seeds and centre fibres from A. 
Cut pulp free from skin in sections, place one 
grape in each section between outside skin and 
pulp, fill centres with sugar and a few drops 
of rum ; serve on beds of pounded ice. 




No. i8. 



SOME BEGINNINGS 



Orang^e Shells. 



7 sets. 



A : 6 oranges cut into baskets (see Fruits) ; 
B : Pnlp and jnice of oranges, 1 c. brandied cherries, 1 
c. Wiesbaden strawberries, pulp and jnice 1 grape-fruit, 
1 banana sliced, 3 tbsps. Maraschino or sherry, 1 tbsp. 
rum, 2 tbsps. powdered sugar. 

Prepare A, fill with B, and serve very cold. 

No. ig. Mask Melons. ^o cts. 

A : 3 small musk or nutmeg melons, very cold ; 
B : Ice shaved fine with 3 tbsps. rum or sherry, or mix 
1 pt. red raspberries, 2 bananas sliced, 3 tbsps. pow- 
dered sugar with \ c. cream. 

Cut A in two, remove seeds and pulp, fill with B. Serve 

ice cold. 



No. 20. 



"Water Melons. 



40 cts. 



A : 6 slices, 1 inch thick, from ripe centre of very cold 
melon, cut into rounds, squares, or fancy shapes ; 
B : 6 tsps. powdered sugar, then 6 tsps. rum. 

Serve A in plates filled with pounded ice, sprinkle with B, 

and serve at once. 



No. 21. 



Strawberries a la Franfaise. 



50 cts. 



A : 2 qts. very large 
strawberries with 
hulls and washed 
slightly ; 

B : 1 c. powdered 

sugar. 

Put B in 6 glass 

dishes, making a little 

mound, arrange A with 

points down. Serve very cold. 

33 





At a formal dinner a consomme or light cream sonp 
should always be served unless the courses are very 
few and rather light, then a bisque or puree is admis- 
sible. It should be served from the side table or but- 
ler's pantry, in ten-inch soup-plates, a scant ladleful 
in each, a table-spoon or soup-spoon being already on 
the table. Terrapin soup is an exception, as plates 
for terrapin are about eight inches, and a terrapin- 
spoon or dessert-spoon may be used. Chowders and 

oyster soups are often served 
in these small plates, as they 
are so rich and thick that a 
small quantity suffices. 

At the informal dinner any 
of the soups are served from 
the butler's pantry, or at the 
home dinner by the hostess 
from a tureen on the table, a 
ladleful in each plate. In re- 
moving this course, take the 
tureen first, then the plates. At 
a luncheon, bouillon or any of 
the cream soups, bisques, or purees are served in 
bouillon-cups. They are always served from the 

24 




SOUPS 



It 



side." They are placed on the service-plate after 
the guests are seated, the bouillon or small spoon 
being already on the table in the place of the table- 
spoon or soup-spoon at the right of the knives. 
Sherry should be poured after this course, and the 
bread-sticks or bread-slices replenished. 

Celery and the salt-cellar, with spoon, may also be 
passed if it is used at all. 

Crouton Sticks No. 730, or slightly browned wafers, 
may accompany this course. 

Recipes given in the following section are divided 
into: 

Clear or consomme, a thin soup from beef, chicken, 
or veal stock. 

Cream, a slightly thickened soup from white or 
chicken stock and cream, or milk and vegetables. 

Puree, a thick, smooth soup from stock, milk, or 
water, and minced meat and vegetables. 

Bisque, a thick, smooth soup from stock, milk or 
water, and fish or shell-fish. 

Chowders and thick soups, from stock or water and 
small pieces of meat, fish, shell-fish, and vegetables. 

Garnishings for soups. 

CLEAR SOUP 

Method. 

Out meat into small pieces, add bones, cover with water, 
heat slowly to boiling-point, add 1 c. cold water, simmer 
gently 4 hours, add vegetables and seasonings, boil I hour, 
pour into an earthen bowl through wet cloth. In the morn- 

25 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

ing skim off every particle of fat, add slightly beaten white 
of egg and crushed shell to jelly — 1 egg to a quart of stock — 
place on fire and stir until it boils. Boil 5 m. or until 
it breaks free from scnm, simmer gently 15 m., add tiny 
piece of ice or a little cold water, remove carefully from fire, 
pour through wet cloth into a bowl, when required, remove 
any particle of fat, heat, add flavoring and serve. 



No. 22. Bouillon. 

Beef. jj: cts. 

A : %\ lbs. lean beef from round, cut into inch 
pieces, brown slightly with small onion stuck 
with 3 cloves and sauted in marrow from bones 
or in 1 tbsp. butter, add 1 lb. bones, 2 qts. cold 
water ; 

B : 1 tbsp. each of celery, carrots, and turnips cut into dice, 
1 tsp. salt, 4 peppercorns, \ bay-leaf, sprig parsley ; 
C : 2 tbsps. sherry, 1 tsp. caramel or lump of sugar. 

Simmer A 4 hours, add B, simmer 1 hour, strain, when 
cold, clear (see Clear Soups) ; add C and serve hot. 

Clam or Oyster. 20 cts. 

A : 1 pt. clams or oysters chopped fine, and their liquor ; 
B : 1 pt. water, \ tsp. celery salt or seed, blade of mace, 
dash cayenne, \ tsp. salt. 

Cook A 5 m., add B, when boiling strain through cloth, 
serve in cups, adding a little butter or whipped cream to each 
cup. 

Chicken. 2j cts. 

A : 1 qt. chicken stock highly seasoned ; 
B : 2 tbsps. sherry, \ tsp. beef extract. 

Heat A, which should be perfectly clear ; add B, strain 
through cheese-cloth and serve. 

26 



SOUPS 
No. 2J. Consomme. 68 cts. 

FOR 18 PERSONS. 

A : 2 lbs. beef from round, 1 small knuckle of veal, 1 

small fowl, 5 qts. cold water, or 3 lbs. beef without the 

fowl; 

B : 1 tbsp. each carrots, turnips, and onions cut into dice, 

1 tbsp. salt, \ tsp. sweet marjoram, | tsp. thyme, 1 tsp. 

peppercorns, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig parsley ; 

C : 2 tbsps. sherry, 1 tbsp. caramel or lump of sugar. 

Simmer A 4 hours, add B, simmer 1 hour, strain, cool and 
clear ; when ready to serve add C. (See Clear Soups.) 

To slightly thicken a clear soup, dissolve 1 tbsp. of arrow- 
root with a little cold soup, add to the hot soup, stir until 
boiling and serve. 

To color a clear soup, dissolve 1 tbsp. arrowroot in 1 c. cold 
milk, add to soup, then add coloring paste, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

No. 2^. CoasoToxae, with Bmssels Sprouts. j£ cts. 

A : 2 c. Brussels sprouts soaked in cold salted water 20 
m. and boiled in freshly boiling salted water 15 m.; 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomm^ No. 23. 

Add A to B and serve at once. 



No. 25. Consomme Qaret. yo cts. 

A : 1 pt. Consomme No. 23 boiled with a 3-inch stick 

of cinnamon 5 m., add 1 pt. claret, 1 pt. hot water, 1 

tbsp. sugar; 

B : 3 egg yolks beaten ; 

C : Egg whites beaten stiff. 

Pour 1 c. of A over B, cook until spoon is coated, add the 
remainder, remove from fire fold in C, and serve. This 
soup may be served cold at a warm-weather dinner. 

37 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 26. Consomme Cucumber. 38 cts. 

A : 2 cucnmbers sliced, 1 c. water ; 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomme No. 23, \ c. cooked green 
peas, \ tsp. sugar, \ tsp. salt. 
Cook A half an hour, add to B and serve. 

No. sy. Consomme Curry. 50 cts. 

A : 1 slice egg-plant fried and cut into dice, 1 heart or 
fond of French artichoke boiled and cut into dice, 1 tbsp. 
boiled rice, 1 tsp. curry dissolved in hot water ; 
B : 3 pts. hot ConBomm6 No. 23. 

Add A to B and serve. 

No. 28. Consomme Neapolitan. jj cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. boiled spaghetti cut into pieces, 1 tbsp. 
boiled ham cut into dice, 3 tbsps. sauted mushrooms 
cut into dice. 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomm6 No. 23. 

Add A to B and serve. 

No. 2g. Consomme with' Pates. j^ cts. 

A : ^ c. cooked meat or sweet-breads chopped fine, 1 tsp. 
lemon juice, \ an ^gg beaten slightly, 1 tbsp. fine bread- 
crumbs, \ tsp. parsley, 2 or 3 drops onion juice, \ tsp. 
salt, dash of nutmeg and cayenne ; 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomme No. 23. 

Mix A, drop from teaspoon on buttered tin and bake 3 or 
4 m., or poach in boiling water, add to B and serve. 

No. JO. Consomme Printanief. J^ cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. each carrot and turnip cut with fancy cut- 
ters, 2 tbsps. each green peas, asparagus-tips and string 
beans ; 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomme No. 23. 

Cook A in boiling salted water 20 m., add B and serve. 



SOUPS 



No. Jl. Consomme Royal. jo cis. 

A : f c. milk scalded with slice of onion, sprig of parsley, 
cool and add to 1 egg slightly beaten, with ^ tsp. salt, 
dash cayenne and nutmeg. This may be delicately col- 
ored with color paste ; 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomme No. 33. 

Pour A into a shallow buttered pan, bake 10 m. ; when cold 
cut into diamonds or dice with wet knife, add to B, and serve. 

No. J2. Consomm^ Royal a« Parmesan. j2 cis. 

A : 1 tbsp. Parmesan cheese. 
Follow Eecipe No. 31, omitting nutmeg and adding A, 

^o. JJ. Ginsomme with Timbales. jj cis. 

A : 1 c. cooked peas, chicken, chestnuts, or sweet-breads, 
mashed smooth with ^ c. stock ; add 2 egg whites beaten 
stifE, J tsp. salt, dash nutmeg and cayenne ; 
B : 3 pts. hot Consomme No. 23. 

Turn A into tiny buttered timbale moulds, bake in pan of 
hot water 10 m.; remove from moulds, add to B, serve one in 
each plate. 

CREAM SOUPS 
Method. 

Boil vegetables, drain, mash through colander or sieve, and 
return to water. Scald stock or milk with seasonings. Cook 
butter, add flour, stir thoroughly until it simmers, then add 
hot milk or stock gradually, strain, add to vegetables ; when 
boiling add egg beaten slightly and mixed with hot cream, 
pour into tureen or plates, add garnishings, and serve. 

Kich and highly seasoned white or chicken stock will make 
the best soup. Egg thickens and enriches, but is not neces- 
sary. If omitted, use a little more flour, and if milk is used 
instead of cream, add more butter. Cold cream is whipped 

29 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and added after soup is in tureen or plates, the garnishings 
sprinkled over. In some recipes arrowroot is used instead of 
flour ; it is more delicate and will make a finer soup, but 
flour may be used if preferred. Do not boil soup after egg is 
added, but whip with egg-beater and serve at once. The 
vegetables may be boiled, pressed through a sieve, and returned 
to water several hours before needed if necessary. When 
ready to use, reheat and add to the other ingredients. 

A^(?. j^. Cream of Asparagus. jj cts. 

A : 1 bunch or 1 can asparagus, 1 qt. hot water ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, 

2 c. hot milk or stock, \ tsp. salt, blade of mace ; 

C : 1 egg, 1 c. hot cream, asparagus-tips. 

Add A to B ; when boiling add and serve (see Cream 
Soups), or boil A 30 m., drain, saute in butter; add pepper, 
salt, and dash nutmeg ; add asparagus water and B ; add 3 
tbsps. white wine and 3 cucumbers which have been parboiled, 
cut into dice and sauted in butter ; add and serve. 

Mushroom liquor and lemon-juice may be used instead of 
white wine. 

No. j^. Cream of Artichokes. ^j cts. 

A : J can French artichoke fonds. These may be bought 

in jars for 35 cents ; 

B : i c. Croutons Eoyal No. 71. 

Follow Eecipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus ; gar- 
nish with B. 

No. 36. Cream of Carrots. j>o cts. 

A : 3 carrots ; 

B : \q. each asparagus tips, green peas, and string 
beans. 

Follow Kecipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus ; gar- 
nish with B. 

30 



SOUPS 



No. jy. Cream of Cauliflower. j^ cts, 

A : 1 small cauliflower ; 

B : Small bits of cauliflower sprinkled with Parmesan 
cheese. 

Follow Recipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus ; gar- 
nish with B. 

No. j8. Cream of Cekry. jo cts. 

A : 3 c. celery parboiled 5 m., dash nutmeg ; 
B : Celery tips. 

Follow Recipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus; gar- 
nish with B. 

No. jg. Cream of Chestnuts. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 pt. chestnuts shelled and blanched, dash of celery 
salt, nutmeg, and cayenne. 

Follow Recipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus. 

No. 40. Cream of Chicken. 44 cts. 

A: 3 pts. hot chicken stock, well seasoned, add to 1 

tbsp. butter and 2 tbsps. arrowroot or flour thoroughly 

cooked together ; 

B : 1 c. minced chicken, \ c. blanched almonds, chopped 

and pounded smooth with 1 c. hot cream or milk, \ tsp. 

sugar, or omit almonds and season with mace ; 

C : 1 c. whipped cream. 

Add B to A ; when boiling serve and garnish with C, or 
omit flour and cook 3 egg-yolks with B, and garnish with 
carrot dice, green peas, and asparagus-tips. 

No. 41. Cream of Com. jo cts. 

A : 1 can corn and the liquor, 1 pt. boiling water, i tsp. 
salt; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter and 2 tbsps. arrowroot or flour cooked 
31 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

thoronghly, 1 pt. hob milk, slice onion, ^ tsp. salt, dash 

pepper, | tsp. sugar ; 

C : 1 c. whipped cream, 1 c. popped corn. 

Simmer A 20 m., add B, when boiling, serve and garnish 
with C. 

JVo. ^2. Cream of Green Peas. j^ cts. 

A : 1 can peas drained, 1 pt. cold water, 1 tsp. salt, 3 

tsps. sugar, sprig of mint ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter and 2 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

1 qt. hot milk ; 

C : 1 c. whipped cream, 1 c. cooked green peas. 

Cook A 20 m., press through sieve, blend with B, when 
boiling add C, and serve. 

No. ^j. Cream of Lettuce or Sorrel. J2 cts. 

A : 2 heads lettuce or 1 c. sorrel chopped and cooked in 
1 tbsp. butter ; add ^ tsp. sugar, ^ tsp. tarragon or plain 
vinegar, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. flour, when boiling add 1 pt, 
hot water ; 

B : 1 qt. white stock, grating of nutmeg, dash cayenne ; 
C : 1 egg-yolk beaten and 1 c. hot cream. 

Cook A thoroughly, add B ; when boiling, add C and serve. 

No. 4^. Cream of Mushroom. 6o cts. 

A : ^ lb. fresh mushrooms, blade mace, 1 tsp. mushroom 
catsup, J tsp. Kitchen Bouquet. This may be bought in 
bottles for 25 cts. 

Follow Recipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus. 

No. 4£. Cream of Onions. 75 cts, 

A : 5 onions sliced, cook in 2 tbsps. butter ; add 1 tbsp. 
flour, cook thoroughly ; add 1 qt. hot water ; when boil' 
ing 1 pt. hot milk, ^ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
B : 1 egg-yolk beaten, 1 c. cream ; 
C : 1 tbsp. Parmesan cheese. 

Cook A, add B, garnish with C (see Cream Soups). 



SOUPS 



No. 4.6, Oeam of Potato. 22 cts. 

A : 4 or 5 potatoes, J tsp. celery salt or stalk of celery ; 
B : 1 tbsp. parsley, chopped. 

Follow Eecipe No, 34, using A instead of asparagus, and 
i tsp. more salt ; garnish with B. 

No. ^/. G-eam of Spinach. 26 cts. 

A : 1 qt. spinach, boiled uncovered, with a bit of bay- 
leaf, i tsp. salt ; 
B : 1 c. cold cream whipped ; i c. green peas. 

Follow Recipe No. 34, using A instead of asparagus, and 
omib egg ; garnish with B after it is served. 

No. 48. Cream of Tomato. 2j cts. 

A : \ can tomatoes, 3 slices onion, 2 sprigs parsley, stick 

celery, \ bay-leaf, small blade mace, 1 tsp. sugar, \ tsp. 

soda and \ tsp. salt ; 

B : % tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour cooked thoroughly ; 

1 qt. hot milk, 3 drops Tabasco sauce ; 

C : 1 0. hot cream. 

Simmer A 30 m., strain, add B ; when boiling, add 0. 

No. ^g. Cream of Water-Cress. j^ cts. 

A : 3 bunches water-cress chopped, cook with 1 tbsp. 
butter, add 1 qt. white stock or beef stock and water ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter and 2 tbsps. arrowroot, cooked thor- 
oughly, 2 c. hot milk, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : 1 c. whipped cream, \ c. fresh cress-tips. 

Simmer A 30 m.; add B when boiling, serve garnished 
with C. 

PUREES 

Method. 

Simmer vegetables or meat in water or stock until tender, 
add seasonings the last hour. When tender remove large 

33 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

pieces of bone or meat, press remainder through colander or 
coarse sieve, return to water. This may be done several 
hours before needed if necessary. When ready to use re- 
move fat, reheat and add to sauce made of hot butter and flour 
cooked thoroughly, stock or water and seasonings. When 
these are thoroughly blended add garnishings. 

No. 50. Black Bean Poree. 18 cts. 

A : \\ cs. black beans soaked over night in 2 qts. cold 
water, then simmer 4 or 5 hours, adding enough boil- 
ing water to make 3 pts. The last hour add a ham- 
bone or small piece of ham, \ an onion stuck with 3 
cloves, 1 tsp. salt, dash pepper, 2 drops Tabasco sauce or 
dash cayenne and \ tsp. mustard ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour cooked together ; 
C : 1 tbsp. sherry, 6 Egg Balls No. 72, or 1 hard boiled 
egg, and \ lemon cut in thin slices. 

Cook A (see Purges) ; add to B ; when ready to serve 
add C. 

Lentil Purie may be made after this recipe by omitting 
ham, egg, and sherry. 

No. §1. Hare Puree. j>5 cts. 

A : 1 jack-rabbit, skin, leaving blood-sack in neck, cut 
meat in small pieces, put in kettle, add blood-sack, cut it, 
add 2 qts. cold water, ^ an onion stuck with 4 cloves, 1 tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne ; 
B : 3 tbsps. port wine. 

Simmer A 5 or 6 hours, remove meat, .chop fine, strain 
soup, add meat and pour in a bowl until morning. Kemove 
fat, reheat, add B and serve. 

No. £2. Peanut Puree. j>5 cts. 

A : 1 pt. peanuts, roasted, shelled, and skins removed, 
pound to a paste, 1 qt. white stock or water, \ tsp. salt, \ 
tsp. paprica ; 
B : strained liquor from 1 pt. oysters. 

Cook A half an hour, add B, when boiling serve. 

34 



SOUPS 

No. 5J. Split Pea Por^ lo cis, 

A : 1 J cs. split peas ; 
B : ^ c. crolitons. 

Follow Recipe No. 50, using A instead of beans, omit egg, 
wine and lemon, and garnish with B. 

No, 5^. Tomato Puree. 20 cts. 

A : 1 can tomatoes, 1 sprig parsley, 1 stick celery, 4 pep- 
percorns, \ bay-leaf, blade mace, 1 tsp. sugar, \ tsp. salt, \ 
tsp. soda ; 

B : 1 tbsp. onion chopped, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 
all cooked together, 1 pt. hot beef stock ; 
C ; i c. croutons. 

Simmer A | an hour, add B, blend thoroughly, serve with 
C. 

A Southern soup may be made by adding 2 tbsps. green 
peppers chopped with the onion in B, and 1 tbsp. horse- 
radish, I tsp. vinegar and \ c. boiled macaroni instead of C. 

BISQUES 

Method. 

Cook fish in water or stock, 20 to 30 m., oysters or clams in 
their own liquor 3 m., add seasonings. Cook butter, add 
flour, stir thoroughly until bubbling and boiling, add hot 
stock or milk ; when boiling blend together, add gamishings 
and serve. 
]Sfo. ^£. Oam Bisque. 23 cts. 

A • 1 doz. clams chopped fine, 1 slice onion, \ bay-leaf ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 pt. white stock or 
chicken stock, \ tsp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco sauce and 1 
tsp. Worcestershire or Weisbaden sauce ; 
C : 1 pt. hot milk or cream. 
Drain liquor from clams, boil, skim, and strain, add to A, 
simmer 3 m., add to B, when boiling add C and serve. 

35 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 5<5. Cirab Bisque. 50 cts. 

A : 6 hard-shell crabs very much alive, wash thoroughly 
and boil 20 m., remove meat, chop it fine and saut6 in 
1 tbsp. butter, add h an onion stuck with 2 cloves, sprig 
parsley, \ tsp. salt, dash of cayenne and blade of mace ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 1 tbsp. flour, 1 pt. hot 
milk and \ cup boiled rice mashed smooth. 

Boil shells in 1 qt. hot water and a little white wine, add A, 
pounded fine, remove onion, parsley, and mace ; simmer \ 
an hour, blend with B, and serve with whipped cream. 

No. 5^. Fish Bisque. 20 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cooked fish, minced fine, I tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. 

parsley chopped, 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, 1 qt. white 

or chicken stock ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour cooked thoroughly, 

1 pt. hot milk, 2 tbsps. cracker-crumbs, \ tsp. salt, dash 

cayenne. 

Blend A with B, but if salmon is used both omit butter 
and use water instead of stock in A. 

No. ^8. Lobster Bisque. ?j cts. 

A : 1 lobster, wash thoroughly, boil 20 m., remove 

meat, cut fine, dry and pound coral, 3 pts. white stock, 

or water and a little white wine, \ tbsp. salt, dash of 

cayenne and grating of nutmeg. 

B : 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 1 of flour, add 1 c hot 

cream or 1 c. hot water and 1 tsp. anchovy paste ; 

C : 1 tbsp. Madeira. 

Cook shell in stock or water \ an hour, strain, add meat, 
coral and seasonings, blend with B and add C if cream is 
used. 

No. 5p, Oyster Bisque. ^j cts. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, chopped fine, 1 pt. chicken stock, J tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne, 1 tsp. parsley minced, bit of bay-leaf, 
1 tsp. Worcestershire or Weisbaden sauce and blade ol 
mace; 

30 



SOUPS 

B : 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 1 tbsp. flour, add 1 c. hot 

cream ; 

C : 1 c minced chicken, 1 egg slightly beaten. 

Add enough hot water to strained oyster liquor to make 1 
qt. Add A, simmer 3 m., blend with B, when boiling add C, 
beat a moment and serve. 

This may be made with chopped clams instead of chicken 
stock, or it can be made an Oyster Gumbo by using 1 c. okra 
and 1 c. tomatoes instead of the chicken stock. 



CHOWDERS AND THICK SOUPS 

Method. 

Saute meat or fish and onion in pork, bacon, or butter, add 
water or stock, vegetables and seasonings. 

Cook butter and flour together, add hot stock or water, 
blend thoroughly and add garnishings, or dissolve flour in a 
little stock and add slowly to hot soup. As chowders and 
thick soups are rich and heavy, they are usually served in 
small soup or terrapin plates with a dessert-spoon. 

N^O. 6o. Chicken Gumbo. ^o cts. 

A : 1 c. chicken stock, \ an onion sliced, 3 slices bacon 
or salt pork, 3 pts. hot water ; 

B : 1 c. tomatoes, \ can okra, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. pepper- 
corns, 1 bay-leaf, \ tsp. curry ; 

C : Eice Balls No. 73, 1 c. chicken meat cut in small 
pieces ; 

I) : 1 tbsp. Southern sassafras or Gumbo fild powder. 
This comes in bottles at 30 cts. 

Cook A until meat is tender, strain, add liquor to B, when 
boiling add C, and when ready to serve add D carefully. 

No. 6l, Qam Chowder. 22 cts. 

A : 1\ doz. clams chopped fine, 1 c. tomatoes, 1 tbsp, 
tomato catsup or burnt tomatoes, \ tsp. Tabasco sauce, \ 
tsp. salt, I tsp. white pepper ; 
37 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : 3 or 4 slices bacon or salt pork cut into dice, 1 onion 
sliced, 1 potato cut into dice, 1 tsp. parsley ; 
C : 1 thin slice toast cut into dice, 2 tbsps. cracker- 
crumbs, ^ lemon sliced thin. 

Strain liquor from clams, add to B, with boiling water, sim- 
mer until potatoes are tender, add A, boil 3 m., add C, serve. 

No. 62. Com Chowder, jo cts. 

A : 1 onion sliced, saute with 1 c. raw ham, 1 can corn 

mashed and the liquor, 1 c. raw potato dice, 1 qt. boiling 

water ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 pt. hot rich milk, \ 

tsp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco sauce ; 

C : 6 crackers rolled into pieces. 

Cook A ^ an hour, add B, when boiling add C and serve. 

No. 6j. Fish Chowder. jj; cts. 

A J 3 or 4 thin slices bacon or salt pork sauted with 1 

onion, 3 lbs. fresh cod or haddock cut into small pieces, 

3 c. potato dice, 1 pt. boiling water ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 qt. hot milk, 1 tsp. salt, \ tsp. 

pepper, \ tsp. Tabasco sauce, 1 tbsp. Worcestershire or 

Wiesbaden sauce and blade of mace ; 

C : 4 tbsps. cracker-crumbs, 1 slice of toast cut into dice. 

Cover bones from fish with 1 pt. cold water, boil 20 m., 
strain into A, boil \ an hour, add B, blend thoroughly, add C 
and serve. 

No. 64. Green Turtle Soup. g£ cts. 

A : 1 can green turtle, cut fat in dice and set aside, 1 qt. 
stock, tie in a cloth 12 peppercorns, 6 cloves, \ tsp. sum- 
mer savory, \ tsp. thyme, 1 bay-leaf and blade mace ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 onion sliced, 2 tbsps. arrowroot or 
flour, cook until brown ; \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica or dash 
cayenne, 1 pt. hot stock ; 

C : Egg Balls No. 72, the fat meat, 1 lemon sliced, 2 
tbsps. sherry. 

Simmer A 1 hour, add B, blend thoroughly, add C, serve. 

38 



SOUPS 
No. 6 J. Mock Turtle Soap. S^-^S- 

FOR 12 PERSONS. 

A : 1 calf's head, J lb. calf's liver, boil 15 m., skim, when 

cool, separate meat from bones, add 4 qts. cold water, 1 

tsp. vinegar ; 

B : 1 tbsp. each carrot, onion, turnip, and celery diced, 

1 bay-leaf, 6 cloves, 3 whole allspice, 3 peppercorns, ^ an 

inch stick cinnamon, 2 sprigs parsley ; 

C : 1 tbsp. batter and 1 tbsp. flour cooked thoroughly ; 

D : 1 tbsp. boiled ham cut in dice, 1 c. meat cut into 

small pieces, 3 tbsps. Madeira. 

Simmer A 2 hours, remove meat, add bones and B, simmer 
2 hours, strain and cool. Kemove fat, reheat, add to C, when 
boiling add D and serve. 

//o. 66. Mulligfatawny Soup. jj cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. butter sauted with \ an onion, 1 tbsp. cooked 
ham chopped, 3 cloves, \ carrot, stick celery, \ c. cooked 
chicken cut into dice, 3 pts. chicken stock ; 
B : \ green apple diced, \ c. tomatoes, 1 tsp. tomato cat- 
sup, 1 tsp. curry, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tbsps. boiled rice, 2 drops 
Tabasco sauce ; 
C : \ lemon sliced. 

Cook A 15 m., add B, simmer \ an hour, serve with C. 

No. 6y. Oxtail Soup. JO cts. 

A ; 1 oxtail, cut at joints, saute with 1 slice salt pork or 

bacon and 1 onion sliced, add 2 qts. cold water ; 

B : 1 carrot, 1 stick celery, 1 sprig parsley, 2 cloves, 1 

tsp. salt, J tsp. pepper, \ tsp. paprica ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, and 1 tbsp. flour cooked thoroughly ; 

D : 3 tbsps. Madeira. 

Simmer A 4 hours, add B, simmer 1 hour, strain ; when 
cold remove fat, reheat, add meat cut into small pieces, blend 
with C, when boiling add D and serve. 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



N^o. 68. Tewapin Soup. $2.60. 

A : 1 pt. can terrapin, or 1 pt. terrapin meat, 1 qt. white 
or chicken stock, | tsp. salt, dash cayenne, blade mace ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter and 1 tbsp. arrowroot cooked together, 
2 hard-boiled egg-yolks mashed smooth, 1 c. hot. cream : 
: 6 Egg Balls No. 72, 3 tbsps. Madeira or sherry. 

Simmer A | an honr, blend with B, when boiling add 0. 
Eed-legged turtles may be used instead of terrapin, they can 
be bought for 50 or 75 cts. a piece. 



GARNISHBSTGS FOR SOUPS 

No. 6g. Oieesc Balls. 75 cts. 

A ! 4 tbsps. batter, J c. water, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 

f c. flour ; 

B : 3 small eggs, one at a time ; 

C : 2 tbsps. Parmesan or American dairy cheese grated. 

Cook A until mixture falls from side of pan, add B, 
cover, when cool add 0, drop from tea-spoon into hot fat, or 
bake on buttered tins. 

No. yo. Cheese Fritter Beans. 8 cts. 

A : 1 tsp. butter, 1 tsp. lard, 5 tbsps. milk ; 

B : J c. flour, J tsp. salt ; 

C : 5 tbsps. grated cheese, 2 eggs. 

Cook A, when boiling add B, remove from fire, add C, mix 
thoroughly and cool. Drop tiny bits from tea-spoon into hot, 
deep fat, drain on brown paper. 

No. yi. Croutons Royals. 8 cts. 

A : 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks mashed smooth with 1 raw 
egg-yolk, 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
B : i c. flour. 

Add B to A, or enough to roll out thin, cut into \ inch 
squares, roll into balls, poach in boiling water, or aautS in 
butter. 

40 



SOUPS 

No. yz. Rice Of Egg Balls. 5 cts. 

A : 1 c. cold boiled rice ; 

B : 1 egg slightly beaten, 1 tbsp. flonr, \ tsp. salt, dash 

cayenne. 

Mix B with A, form into balls, drop into sonp, or 
A : 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, 1 raw egg-yolk, 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne or nutmeg. 

Mash A until smooth, add enough flour to roll on floured 
board about \ an inch thick, cut in squares, roll into balls and 
poach in boiling water. 1 tbsp. minced ham or tongue may 
be added to either of these recipes, also chopped parsley. 





If fish is served from the butler's pantry, as it 
is usually at formal dinners, take each hot plate 
containing the portion in the right hand, remove the 
cold service-plate or soup-plate with the left hand 
from the right side of guest, and place the hot plate 
also from the right. Cucumbers, cress, radishes or 
tomatoes and cooked potatoes, or macaroni with 
cheese, and any of the fish sauces may be served with 
fish. These should be passed to the left of each guest 
on the tray, following quickly after the fish is served. 
If the cucumbers or tomatoes are dressed with oil and 
the fish-plates are hot, they should be served 
on leaves of lettuce, or on small dishes placed 
at the left of each cover. If fish is served 
on the table, the fish-platter must first 
be removed, then everything used for the 
course at each cover. Salted nuts, olives or radishes 
should be passed, and Rhine wine served, filling 
glasses only three-quarters full. 

FISH, BAKED 

Method. 

To bake whole, stufE with Dressing No. 146, stand upright 
on rack or tin sheet with two or three slices salt pork or 
bacon between. Tie fish to tin or rack if necessary to keep 
it upright. Gash it across top, insert pork or bacon, dust 

43 



FISH 

with salt and pepper, sprinkle with flour and bake 15 m. 
to the pound, basting frequently. Strain fat in pan, for 
sauce foundation, remove pork, fill gashes with parsley, 
garnish with lemon. Salmon, shad, or blue-fish may be egg- 
crumbed and sprinkled with minced parsley and bits of 
butter, omitting pork. 

For cutlets or fillets, dust with salt and pepper, sprinkle 
with bits of butter, add vegetables and seasonings according 
to recipes, putting small amount underneath and remainder 
sprinkled over top of fillets. 

FISH, BOILED 

Method. 

Wrap fish in wet cheese-cloth, dredge with flour, cover 
with warm water, add 1 tsp. salt and 1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon 
juice and simmer 10 m. to the pound, or boil in Court Bouillon 
No. 145, which will give flavor to fish ; salmon must be cov- 
ered with boiling water or bouillon to preserve its color, re- 
move skin and place in oven a moment to dry. 

FISH, BROILED 

Method. 

Remove head and tail from large fish, leave small fish 
whole, clean, dip in melted butter or oil seasoned with salt 
and pepper, place on greased broiler, flesh-side down, turn 
often, cook from 10 to 20 m., serve flesh-side up sprinkled 
with salt, pepper, and bits of butter. 

FISH, FRIED OR SAUTED 
Method. 

To Fry : Dust fillets or small fish with salt, pepper, and 
flour, egg-crumb and fry in deep hot fat, lard or oil, or half 
of each ; when light brown drain on soft paper. 

43 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

To Saate : Dust with salt, pepper, roll in flour or corn- 
meal and sautS or cook in three or four slices of salt pork, 
or 1 tbsp. butter and one of lard in a saute or frying pan, 
having fat and pan both very hot. Cook until brown, turn- 
ing often. 

No. yj. Bfoofc Trout, Baked. $1.2^. 

A ; 6 large trout ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 3 tbsps. mushrooms, 1 truffle, chopped 

fine, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 

C : 1 tbsp. parsley minced, 2 tbsps. butter, \ c. stock. 

Stuff A with B saut6d, put in pan, cover with C, bake \ an 
hour, basting often. 

No. 7.^. Brook Troot, Broiled. $1.00. 

A : 6 large trout dipped in 1 tbsp. olive-oil, salt and 

pepper ; 

B : Maitre d'Hotel Sauce No. 248. 

Broil A 10 to 15 m., serve with B poured over. 

No. 75. Brook Trout, Sauted. $1. 10. 

A : 12 trout, or 2 lbs. rolled in corn meal, salt and 
pepper ; 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. lard. 

Saut6 until brown and crisp. Garnish with lemon and 
cress. 

No. 7<5. Codfish Fillets, Fried. ^o cts. 

A : 6 fillets fresh codfish marinated 1 hour in 1 tbsp. oil, 
2 tbsps. lemon-juice, \ tsp. each salt, onion-juice and 
paprica ; 
B : Tartare Sauce No. 159. 

Crumb, egg and crumb A, fry until light brown, drain, 
serve with B. 

No. 77. Fish Fillets, Baked. ^o cts. 

A : 6 fillets, 1 tbsp. butter ; 

B : J c. hot water, \ c. white wine, or 2 tbsps. lemon 

juice, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper ; 

44 



FISH 

C : Shrimp Sauce No. 154, or Cucumber Sauce No. 155 •, 
D : 3 tbsps. bread-crumbs, browned in 1 tsp. butter. 

Saut6 A without browning, press between two plates until 
cold. This may be done several hours before needed. Put 
in baking-pan, cover with B, bake 20 m., place on serving- 
dish, pour over C, sprinkle with D, and serve. 

No. 7(5'. Fish Fillets, Boiled. ^o cts. 

A : 6 fillets of cod or halibut ; 
B : Cheese Sauce No. 143. 

Boil A I an hour, serve covered with B. 

No. 7p. Fish Fillets, Deviled- ^o cts. 

A : 6 fillets, about two lbs. ; 

B : 1 tbsp. mustard, 1 tbsp. lemon- juice, 1 tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce, 1 tbsp. hot water, J tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica, 
or dash cayenne ; 
: I c. crumbs ; 
D : Tartare Sauce No. 159. 

Broil A 10 m., spread with B, dip in and finish broiling, 
serve with D. 

No. 8o. Fish Fillets, Fried or SaoteiJ. 45 cts. 

A : 6 fillets, about 2 lbs. ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. minced onion, 1 tbsp. flour, 

cooked together until brown, add 1 c. tomatoes ; 

C : 1 c. boiling water, 3 or 4 cloves, \ bay-leaf, \ tsp. 

salt, \ tsp. paprica ; 

D : 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, 1 tbsp. butter. 

Saut6 A until brown, add B, simmer 5 m., add C, cook 
10 m. Serve fish on toast with sauce strained and poured 
over, or egg and crumb A, fry in hot fat and serve with 1 
tbsp. Tomato Tartare No. 160 on each fillet. 

No. 81. Flounder or Sole Fillets, Stuffed. ^5 cts. 

A : 6 long, thin, narrow fillets ; wind around 6 cork- 
shaped pieces carrot, fasten with tooth-picks ; 

45 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : ^ c. white wine, 1 c. fish stock made from bones, J 
tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour cooked thoroughly, I 
0. stock, ^ c. shrimps, and J c. oysters chopped fine, 1 tsp. 
Worcestershire sauce, I tsp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, 
yolk 1 egg. 

Cover A with B, simmer 30 m., remove carrots, stuff with 
C, when cold crumb, egg and crumb, fry in hot fat and serve 
with Lobster Sauce No. 149. 

A^o. 82. Flounder or Sole Fillets, Rolled. ^^ cts. 

A : 6 long, narrow fillets ; 

B : Anchovy, Lobster, Shrimp, or Sardine Butter. 

(See Flavored Butters.) 

Spread A with B, roll and fasten with wooden tooth-picks. 

To bake : dust with salt and pepper, sprinkle with lemon- 
juice, bake 20 m., or wrap in buttered paper and bake 30 m. 

To fry : egg and crumb and fry in hot fat or oil. 

To saut6 : brown butter with parsley and onion, add fillets, 
cook until light brown. 

To stew : cover with fish stock made from the bones and 2 
tbsps. white wine or lemon-juice, cook 20 m. or until tender. 
Strain stock into butter and flour cooked together and serve 
with fish. 

No. 83. Fish au Parmesan, Baked« jj cts. 

A : Whole fish, about 3 lbs., stuff with Dressing No. 146 ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter in bits, 2 tbsps. Parmesan cheese ; 
C : 2 cs. cream. 

Place A in pan, sprinkle with B, bake 20 m., add C, bake 
slowly \ an hour, basting frequently. Serve with sauce 
from pan, strained and poured over. 

No. 8^. Frogs* Legs a la Poalette. 80 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. frogs, 1 tbsp. butter, cook 1 m., add \ c. white 
wine or lemon-juice and water, | c. water, ^ tsp. salt, 
dash pepper, grating nutmeg ; 
46 



FISH 

B : 1 c. white stock ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

add the liquor in which frogs were cooked ; 

D : 2 egg-yolks slightly beaten, 1 tbsp. minced parsley. 

Stew A 15 m., add B, simmer until frogs are tender, drain, 
place on hot dish, cook 0, when boiling add D, pour oyer 
frogs and serve. 

No. 8§. Halibut Fillets, Cold. 45 cts. 

A : 6 fillets of halibut, f inch thick, remove skin and 

bone, wrap each one in cheese-cloth, dust with flour, 

boil 30 m. in Court Bouillon No. 145. Marinate while 

warm in French Dressing No. 436 ; 

B : 1 tbsp. chopped almonds, 1 tsp. parsley, minced ; 

C: Tartare Sauce No. 159, or Cold Cream Sauce No. 

156. 

Sprinkle A with B, cover with C, and serve very cold. A 
delicious entree for a hot day. 

No. 86, Halibut au Gratin, Baked. ^5 cts. 

A : 6 fillets halibut, about 2 lbs., J tsp. salt, dash pepper, 

J c. milk ; 

B : Cheese Sauce No. 143 ; 

C : I 0. crumbs, sauted in 1 tbsp. butter. 

Bake A ^ an hour, basting often, place on hot dish, cover 
with B, sprinkle with 0, serve. 

No. 87. Halibut au Jardiniere, Baked. §0 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. halibut in cutlets or steak ; 

B : 2 tomatoes sliced or \ c. canned tomatoes, 1 onion 

minced, 1 doz. almonds blanched and chopped fine, 1 

sweet green pepper cut into thin strips and seeds re» 

jected, 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. salt 
Cover A with B, bake \ an hour, serve with sauce from 
pan poured over. 
No. 88. Pompano, Broiled. pj cts. 

A : 2 pompano, about 3 lbs., dip in 2 tbsps. olive oil, 

mixed with \ tsp. salt, dash pepper ; 

47 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : 1 c. fine crumbs ; 

C : Lobster Batter No. 772, or plain butter, salt, and 

pepper ; or 

I) : Cucumber Sauce No. 144. 

Broil A 10 m., roll in B, finish broiling, spread with C, or 
serve with D. 

No. 8g. Pompano, Sauted. ^j cts. 

A : 6 fillets of pompano, dash nutmeg and pepper, J tsp. 

salt ; 

B : Cold Cucumber Sauce No. 155. 

Roll A in flour, saut6 in butter and serve with B, 1 tbsp. 
on each fillet. 

No. go. Salmon Cutlets, Baked. go cts. 

A : 2 lbs. salmon cutlets, \ c. hot water, \ c. white wine, 

\ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, grating nutmeg ; 

B : 1 pt. oysters, cut in small pieces, \ c. crumbs browned 

in 1 tbsp. butter ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

add liquor from pan, 1 tsp. anchovy paste. 

Bake A 20 m., cover with B, bake 5 m., serve with C poured 
around. 

No. gi. Salmon Supreme, Boiled. go cts. 

A : Whole salmon, 3 or 4 lbs., form into letter S with 

string tied around head, run through body and tied 

around tail ; 

B : Court Bouillon No. 145 ; 

C : Tartare Sauce No. 159, or Shrimp Sauce No. 154 ; or 

D : Mayonnaise Jelly No. 439, colored green. 

Boil A in B 30 or 40 m., remove string and skin, serve hot 
with C poured over, or cold covered with D. 

No. g2. Shad, Planked. 6o cts. 

A : 1 large shad, split open, wipe dry and remove back- 
bone, if possible ; 
B : White oak plank, \\ in. thick ; 

48 



FISH 

C : 2 tb&p. butter in bits, 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, ^ tsp. 
salt, J tsp. paprica and 1 tbsp. Walnut catsup or white 
wine ; 
D : Cucumber Sauce No. 144. 

Tack A, skin-side down, to B, dust with salt and pepper 
and spread delicately with butter, place before an extremely 
hot fire, or under gas broiler, cook 20 m.; or place in very hot 
oven and cook 25 m., remove tacks, put fish on dish, spread 
with C, serve at once with D. Shad should be extremely 
fresh and cooked as soon as caught. "Bargain-counter" fish 
should be shunned. 

No. pj. Shad Roc, Baked. ^^ cts. 

A: Eoe from large shad, plunge into boiling water an in- 
stant, drain and cover with 2 tbsps. butter, | tsp. each 
salt and paprica, 1 c. stock ; 
B : 3 egg-yolks, beaten with 1 c. cream. 

Bake A in covered pan 20 m., remove cover, bake 10 m., 
place on hot dish, strain sauce from pan into B slowly, cook 
until slightly brown, pour B over roe and serve with thin 
slices broiled bacon. 

No. g4. Shad Roc Balls. jo cts. 

A : Eoe from large shad, boil 15 m. ; 
B : J c. fine bread-crumbs, 2 tbsps. melted butter, J tsp. 
each, salt and paprica and 1 egg beaten. 
Mash A, add B, form into small balls, saut6 in butter, or 
egg and crumb and fry in hot fat. 

No. p5. Shad Roe, Brofled. 2^ cts. 

A : Eoe from a large shad, boil in salted boiling water 5 

m. ; 

B : 2 tbsps. melted butter, \ tsp. each salt and paprica ; 

C : Maitre d'Hdtel Sauce No. 248. 

Drain A, dip in B, broil 10 m., cover with C, serve with 

broiled bacon, or cut A in slices, put on skewer alternately 

with the bacon and broil. 

49 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. g6. Shad Roc, Sauteil. J^ cfs. 

A : Roe from large shad, parboil 1 m., plunge in cold 
water, drain and sante in 1 tbsp. butter ; 
B : 1 c. cream, dash salt and pepper. 

Cook A until brown, place on bed of water-cress on hot 
platter, add B to pan, when hot pour over A and server 

JVo. gj. Sardines ao Parmesan. /j cts. 

A : 6 large sardines ; 

B : 6 pieces toast a little larger than sardines ; 

C : 2 tbsps. Parmesan cheese. 

Drain A, broil on both sides, lay on B, sprinkle with C 
and serve hot. 

No. g8. Smelts, Fried. ^5 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. smelts, remove back-bones and tails, sprinkle 
inside with salt and pepper, roll toward head, fasten 
with tooth-picks, or leave back-bone in, fasten heads and 
tails together in rings ; 
B ; Tartare Sauce No. 159. 

Egg and crumb A, fry in hot lard, serve around a mound 
of B. 

No. gg. Sole au Vin Blanc, Baked. ^J cts. 

A : 6 fillets of sole, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, \ c. hot water ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked thoroughly, 1 
tsp. parsley, \ tsp. onion, minced, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 
blade mace, 1 c. white wine. 

Bake A 10 m., add B, bake 20 m., serve with sauce strained 
over. As we have no sole in this country, use flounders or 
pompano. 

No. TOO. . White-bait, Fried. 55 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. white-bait, dust with salt and pepper, roll in 
cheese-cloth sprinkled with flour ; 
B : 1 c. lard, 1 c. oil, both very hot. 

Shake A in sieve to remove flour, then plunge in B, cook 

50 



FISH 

only enough at a time to cover bottom of .basket. They 
should be light brown, drain on paper, sprinkle with salt and 
dash cayenne or paprica, keep hot and serve at once in a 
napkin. 

The whole process should be done quickly. 

FROM COLD COOKED FISH. 

Boil fish in Court Bouillon No. 145. When cold pick into 
small pieces, reject bones and skin. 

For Creamed Fish, have pieces | inch square. 

For Croquettes or fillets, mince fine. 

For Timbales or Souffles, mince fine and mash smooth. 

No. lOI. Fish Creamed^ for Coquille or Ramekin ^2 cts. 
Dishes, Fates or Vol aa Vents, 

A : 3 cs. fish ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tsp. onion juice, 1 tsp. parsley, 2 
tbsps. flour, when boiling add 1 c. milk or fish stock, \ 
tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 2 tbsps. white wine or 1 of lemon- 
juice ; 
C : 1 egg-yolk, \ c. hot cream. 

Cook B, when boiling add C, blend thoroughly, add A, fill 
coquille or ramekin dishes, cover with browned crumbs and 
serve very hot, or fill pdtes or vol an vents and serve with- 
out crumbs. 
No. 102. Fish Croquettes of Halibut or Codfish, jo cts. 

A : 2 cs. fish ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter, 5 tbsps. flour, cook thoroughly, add 
1 c. hot cream or milk, J c. fish stock, \ tsp. salt, dash 
pepper and nutmeg, or 2 drops Tabasco Sauce, J tsp. 
onion-juice, 1 tsp. parsley minced, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 
\ tsp. "Worcestershire Sauce. 
Cook B, add A, when cold form into croquettes and fry. 
(See Croquettes.) Serve with Lobster Sauce No. 149, or Hol- 

landaise Sauce No. 148. 

51 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. loj. Fish Croquettes of Salmon. ^o cls. 

A : 1 can or 2 cs. boiled salmon, drain and mash ; 

B : 2 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. melted butter, \ c. milk or 

cream, 1 c. bread-crumbs, ^ tsp. paprica, \ tsp. salt, dash 

nutmeg. 

Mix A with B, form into croquettes, egg and crumb and 
fry. Drain on brown paper. 

No. lO/f. Fish Timbales. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 c. minced fish ; 

B ; 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, cook thoroughly, add 1 

c. milk, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ tsp. lemon-juice, 1 

tsp. parsley, minced ; 

C : 3 egg-yolks, slightly beaten ; 

D : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling remove from the fire, add C, 
beat until cool, fold in D, fill moulds two-thirds full, bake 15 
or 20 m. Turn out and serve at once. (See Timbales.) 

Serve with Shad Eoe Sauce No. 153, or Shrimp Sauce No. 
154. 

No. io§. Fish Timbales Supreme. ^5 cis. 

A : 1 c. raw fish, pressed through a sieve, 12 blanched 
almonds, chopped fine, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne, few 
drops onion-juice ; 

B : 1 c. whipped cream, 4 egg-whites, beaten very stiff ; 
C : Cold Cucumber Sauce No. 155, or Hollandaise Sauce 
No. 148. 

Mix A thoroughly, add B, fill moulds and bake 12 m., serve 
with C. (See Timbales.) 

No. 106. Fish Force-meat. i^ cts. 

A : 1 c. cooked fish, mashed until smooth ; 

B : ^ c. bread-crumbs, \ c. cream, 1 egg, salt and pepper, 

paprica and lemon-juice. 

Cook B 5 m., add A, when boiling it is ready for use. 
This may be used to line timbale moulds, to stuff fish fillets, 
or to spread over fish cutlets or steaks. 

53 



FISH 

SHELL FISH 

No. loy. Qams, Baked. ^ r cts. 

A : 12 lar^e soft clams ; 

B : 13 thin slices bacon, 1 tbsp. butter in bits, dash 
cayenne. 

Open A carefully to retain jaice, remove black heads, leave 
each clam on half shell, add B, tie on top shell, put them in 
a pan, bake 20 m., remove top shell and serve on lower shell, 
two to each person. 

No. lo8. Clams Creamed, for Coqoilles, Ram- 25 cts. 

ekin Dishes, or Bouchees, Pates, or Vol ao Vents. 

A : 1 doz. clams chopped and their liquor ; 

B : 2 tbsps. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. butter, \ c. milk, J 

tsp. salt, dash cayenne, grating nutmeg, 1 tsp. parsley, 

minced ; 

C : I c. hot cream. 

Boil A 3 m., drain, add to B, stir thoroughly, when boiling 
add C, fill coquilles, shells, or ramekins, cover with browned 
crumbs, or fill bouchees, pAtes, or vol au vents and omit 
crumbs. 

No. log. Clams, Deviled and Broiled. 20 cts. 

A : 12 large clams ; 

B : 1 tbsp. olive oil, 1 tbsp. made mustard, 1 tbsp. lemon- 
juice, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica ; 
C : J c. fine crumbs ; 
D : 12 small thin slices bacon. 

Dip A in B, roll in C, run on skewers alternately with 
D, broil over slow fire. 

No. no. Clam Fritters. 20 cts. 

A : 12 clams chopped fine, \ c. flonr, 1 tsp. parsley, 
minced, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper, 2 beaten eggs. 

Mix A thoroughly, adding more flour if necessary, drop, by 
spoonful, into hot deep fat, when brown drain and serve on a 

napkin. 

53 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. III. Qams, \. la Poalette. zg cts. 

Follow Eecipe No. 108, adding 3 eggs, slightly beaten. 

No. 112. Crafcs, Deviled or Farcied. /fo cts. 

A : 6 crabs, 3 or 4 mnshrooms, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, cook thoroughly, add 1 
c. cream, \ tsp. each, salt and mustard, and either 2 
tbsps. grated cheese or 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 3 drops Ta- 
basco sauce, 1 tsp. parsley minced, and \ tsp. Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Boil crabs, which must be alive, 30 m., cool and remove 
meat from shell, saving 6 good shells to fill, cook B thor- 
oughly, add A, fill shells, cover with browned crumbs, bake 
5 m., and serve hot, or smooth top and place on ice until cold. 
Immerse shell and all in egg, crumb i p and fry in hot fat, 3 
or 3 at a time. 

No. 1 1 J. Lobster^ Broiled Alive. pj cts. 

A : 3 lively lobsters ; 

B : 6 tbsps. melted butter, 6 tsps. vinegar, 1 tsp. salt, \ 

tsp. paprica, 1 tbsp. parsley minced. 

Split A, remove from shell, reject intestines and broil flesh- 
side down over very hot coals 8 m. on each side. Serve with 
small cups filled with B. 

No. 114. Lobster, Creamed, for G>quiIIe, 70 cts. 

Ramekin Dishes, or Booch&s, Pates, or Vol au Vents. 

A : 2 c. boiled lobster dice or 1 0. lobster and 6 cooked 
mushrooms and 1 truffle, chopped ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, brown slightly, add 
1^ cs. hot cream or milk, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, grating 
nutmeg or 1 tsp. each chopped parsley and lemon-juice ; 
Q: \q. crumbs, sauted in 1 tbsp. butter until brown. 

Cook B thoroughly, add A, fill dishes, or make a boat of 
shells with claws for oars and fill with the mixture, cover 

54 



FISH 

with C and bake 5 m., or fill pdte cases or vol au vents and 
serve hot. 

No. 11^. Lofcster Chops. 70 cts. 

A : 2 OS. boiled lobster meat, chopped fine (see Croqxiettes) ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, saute with \ tsp. each parsley and 
onion, 4 tbsps. flour, when boiling add 1 c. hot cream or 
milk, or use stock, \ tsp, salt, J tsp. paprica, grating 
nutmeg, ^ tsp. mustard. 

Cook B thoroughly, add A, mix well, put in shallow dish 
on ice. When very cold form into chop-shaped croquettes, 
crumb, egg and crumb and fry in hot fat. Put a claw or 
stick of macaroni in each to represent a bone. 

No. 116. Lobster Curi-y. 60 cis, 

A : 3 OS. boiled lobster meat, cut into dice ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, creamed with coral or liver dried and 
pounded fine, 3 egg-yolks, beaten, \ tsp. each salt and 
paprica ; 

C : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tsp. chopped onion, 2 tbsps. flour, 
1 tbsp. curry, cook thoroughly, add 2 cs. cream or stock ; 
D : Eice Timbale Cases No. 372. 
Cook C thoroughly, add B, when boiling strain over A and 
serve in D. 

No. Iiy. Lofestef Cutlets Sapremc. p/ cis. 

A : 2 boiled lobsters taken from shell in 6 large pieces ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cook thoroughly, add 

i c. hot white stock or milk, i c. oyster liquor ; 

C : 10 oysters parboiled and remainder of lobster chopped 

fine, 4 cooked mushrooms, 2 truffles, sliced, ^ tsp. salt, 

dash cayenne, 3 tbsps. Madeira ; 

D : 2 egg-yolks, beaten with 1 tbsp. butter, h c. cream. 

Sprinkle A with tiny bits of butter, brown in oven, cook 

B, add C, boil 5 m., add D, when boiling, pour in centre of 

dish surrounded by A. 

55 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. Il8. Lobster a la Newbof j. 8o cts. 

See Chafing Dish Creations No. 822. 

No. iig. Lobster Timbales. J5 cts. 

Fonow Kecipe No. 104, using lobster and dash nutmeg in- 
stead of fish and parsley. 

No. 120. Lobster Timbales Supreme. 55 cts. 

Follow Eecipe No. 105, using lobster, mushrooms, and truf- 
fles instead of fish and almonds, or line moulds with coral 
pressed through a sieve, then a lining of Fish Force-meat 
No. 106, fill centre with Creamed Lobster No. 114, and serve 
with Cucumber Sauce No. 144. 

No. 121. Lobster and Mushroom Ragfout. 50 cts. 

A : 2 cs. lobster meat and 6 cooked mushrooms, cut in 

small pieces ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 2 slices onion, 2 tbsps. flour, cook 

until brown, add 1^ cs. stock, \ tsp. salt, 3 drops Tabasco 

sauce : 

C : 2 tbsps. sherry. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling add C and serve. 

No. 122. Lobster Savory in Fontag^e Croustades. j^ cts. 

A : 1 c. lobster meat, \ c. mushrooms, chopped ; 
B : Brown Sauce No. 230, made with stock, add 1 tbsp. 
ham, 2 tbsps. each carrot and celery, 1 tsp. parsley, i 
tsp. onion, all chopped fine, season with salt, pepper, and 
2 cloves. 

Cook B until vegetables are tender, remove cloves, add A 
and cook 5 m. Serve in Fontage Croustades No. 224, or in 
Bread Croustades No. 222. 

56 



FISH 



No. I2J. Oysters, Broiled jo cts. 

A : 1 pt. large oysters ; 

B : f c. crumbs, J tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica ; 

C : Maitre d'Hdtel Sauce No. 248. 

Dip A in melted butter, then in B, one by one, broil 10 m., 
serve with C. 

No. 124. Oysters Creamed, for Pateis, Co- jo cts. 

quille, or Ramekin Dishes. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, parboiled 1 m., or 1 c. oysters and 1 c. 
macaroni, boiled in stock ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, slightly browned, 1 c. 
hot milk or cream, i c. strained oyster liquor, \ tsp. salt, 
dash celery salt, cayenne and nutmeg, or \ tsp. anchovy 
paste, 1 tsp. lemon-juice, 1 tsp. parsley, chopped. 

Cook B thoroughly, add A, fill dishes, crumb and bake 5 
m., or fill pAt6 cases and serve without crumbing. 

If macaroni is used omit some of the seasonings and add 2 
tbsps. grated cheese. 

No. 12^. Oysters in Croustades. jo cts. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, parboil and drain ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tsp. onion-juice, 3 tbsps. flour. 
Cook thoroughly and brown, add 1 c. hot oyster liquor, 
\ c. brown stock, or water and i tsp. meat extract, \ tsp. 
salt, i tsp. anchovy essence or paste, dash cayenne ; 
C : 6 heart-shaped Croustades No. 223. 

Cook B, when boiling add A, fill C and serve. 

No. 126. Oysters, Curried. 30 cts. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, parboil and drain ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, 2 slices onion, 2 tbsps. flour, cook 
until brown: add \ tsp. curry, \ tsp. salt, i tsp. paprica, 
1 0. oyster liquor, 2 tbsps. white wme ; 
C : Rice Casserole No. 367. 
Cook B, add A, when boiling, serve in C or a border of 

boiled rice. 

57 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 12/. Oyster Oiops. jj cis. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, parboiled, or 1 c. oysters and 1 c. cooked 
veal or mushrooms, cut in very small pieces ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, 4 tbsps. flour, cook thoroughly, add 
i c. oyster liquor, J c. cream, 1 tsp. parsley, | tsp. salt, 
dash cayenne, J tsp. anchovy essence or grating nutmeg 
or 1 tbsp lemon-juice and dash celery salt. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling turn out on shallow dish, 
when cold form into chops, egg, crumb and fry. Use sticks 
of macaroni to represent bones. 

No. 128. Oysters, Deviled. 2^ cts. 

Follow Kecipe No. 109, using oysters instead of clams, add- 
ing \ tsp. curry. 

No. I2g. Oysters, Fried or Sauted. 60 cts. 

A : 1 qt. large oysters, drained and covered with ice- water 

5 m. ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. lard, both very hot. 

Drain, dry, and crumb A, dip in egg well seasoned and 
crumb again, plunge into hot fat, or saute them in B. 

No. 130. Oysters, Fried Supreme. 50 cts, 

A : 12 very large oysters, parboil in their own liquor, 

drain and dry ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 slice onion, 1 sprig parsley, 4 tbsps. 

flour, cook thoroughly, add 1 c. chicken or white stock, 

or 1 c. strained oyster liquor, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 

grating nutmeg, | c. minced chicken or veal ; 

C : 4 egg-yolks, beaten, \ c. cream. 

Cook B until thick, add C, stir constantly 10 m., without 
boiling, then cool. Dip A into B, place on buttered tin with 
space between, then cover A with B, when very cold cut 
apart, shape, crumb, egg, crumb and fry. 

58 



FISH 



No. J J I. Oyster Pie. 60 cts. 

A : 1 qt. oysters and their liquor ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter, 2 tbsps. flour, cook thoroughly, add 

\ c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg ; 

C : Puff Paste No. 541, or baking-powder biscuit dough 

\ inch thick. 

Cook B, add A, fill buttered dish, put inverted teacup in 
centre, cover with 0, brush with white of egg, bake \ an hour. 

No. 132. Oyster Rissoles. 28 cts. 

A : 1 c. oysters, parboiled and chopped, 2 hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped, \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. minced parsley, dash 
pepper, grating nutmeg, 2 tbsps. cream ; 
B : Puff Paste No. 541. 

Cut B into rounds, put spoonful of A on side, turn paste, 
making \ circle, pinch edges, bake or fry in hot fat. (See 
Bissoles.) 

No. I J J. Oyster Rolls. ^o cis. 

A : 6 small French rolls ; 

B : 1 pt. oysters, remove hard muscle and parboil in their 
own liquor 1 m., drain, add J tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ 
c. hot cream and 1 tsp. lemon-juice, ^ tsp. anchovy paste 
or 1 tsp. parsley minced or grating nutmeg. 

Remove inside of A, leaving a small piece for cover, spread 
inside with butter, fill with B, put on covers, brush with 
melted butter, place in oven 10 m., serve very hot. 

No. 134. Oysters, Scalloped Supreme. ^o cts. 

A : 1 qt. large oysters ; 

B : 1 tbsp. parsley and 1 of celery, minced, \ tsp. salt, \ 

tsp. papnca ; 

C : 1 c. fine bread-crumbs without crust ; 

D : 1 c. cream, 2 tbsps. butter in bits. 

Sprinkle deep buttered dish with layer of C, then A, then 
B. Continue until dish is full, add D and bake 30 m. 

69 



THE 'HOSTESS OF TO-DAV 

No. /Jj. Oystef Soaffle. 38 cts. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, remove hard muscle, cut in small 

pieces ; 

B : 1 c. White Saace No. 339, 1 tsp. Worcestershire 

sauce ; 

C : 3 egg-yolks, beaten ; 

D : Egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Add A to B, then stir in C, mix thoroughly, fold in D, fill 
souffle cups, crumb and bake 15 m. (See Souffl6s.) 

No. Ij6. Oyster Crabs in Ooustades or Paff $1.10. 
Paste Cases. 

A : 1 pt. oyster crabs, 3 tbsps. butter, \ c. water, 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica ; 
B : Bechamel Sauce No. 333 ; 
C : 6 Bread Oroustades, No. 232 ; 
D : 3 tbsps. Parmesan cheese. 

Cook A, a few at a time, about 5 m., add to B, fill C, 
sprinkle with D and brown in oven. 

No. ijy. Scallops, Fned. ^6 cts. 

A : 1 qt. scallops, wash and drain ; 
B : 3 egg-yolks, well beaten with \ c. cold water, add 1 
0. flour, J tsp. salt, ^ tsp. pepper, 1 tbsp. olive oil, 3 
whites, beaten stiff, mix thoroughly. 

Dip A in B, one by one, and fry in hot, deep fat. 

No. ij8. Shrimps Creamed, for Pates, ^5 cts. 

Coquilles, or Ramekin Dishes. 

Follow Kecipe No. 114, using 1 pt. shrimps instead of lob- 
ster, season with chopped parsley, lemon- juice, mustard, and 
onion-juice. 

60 



FISH 



No. Ijg. Shrimps and Tomatoes, Sauted. jj cts. 

A : 1 pt. shrimps, sauted in 2 tbsps. butter ; 
B : Tomato Sauce No. 259, 3 or 4 mushrooms, minced, or 
Bearnaise Sauce No. 232, with tomato pulp. 

Dip A in milk, roll in flour and saut6, pour B over toast, 
add A, sprinkle with parsley and lemon-juice. 

iVb. i^o. Soft-shell Crabs. ^o cis. 

A : 6 soft-shell crabs very much alive, wash thoroughly ; 
B : Ravigote Butter No. 775, or Sauce Tartare No. 159. 

Clean A by removing with sharp knife muscles or spongy 
substance under each point of back shell, turn crab on its 
back and cut ofE apron, wash again, wipe dry, dust with salt 
and pepper, crumb, egg, and crumb, and fry in hot fat, 
turning until brown on both sides, or saute in butter, or dip 
in melted butter or oil seasoned with salt and pepper, then in 
crumbs, and bake in very hot oven 8 m., or omit crumbs 
and broil 6 m. Serve with B, garnished with slices of lemon 
and sprigs of parsley. 

No. I^i. Terrapin, Stewed. $2.^o. 

A : 1 terrapin, boiled 10 m. without s.alt, 

drain, cover with fresh boiling water and 1 

tbsp. salt. Boil until tender ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter ; 

C : 1 tbsp. aiTowroot dissolved in 1 c. cream, \ tsp. salt, 

\ tsp. pepper, dash cayenne and nutmeg, \ tsp. cloves, 

blade mace ; 

D : 6 Egg Balls No. 72, or eggs from terrapin, 3 tbsps. 

sherry. 

Remove meat from A, cut into small pieces, cover with 
strained liquor from terrapin, simmer until tender, drain and 
cook in B 10 m., add C, when thick add D and serve. 



61 





No. I/f2. Anchovy Sauce. 

A : White Sance N"o. 229, made with water 



8 cts. 



B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. anchovy paste or essence, \ tsp. 
Worcestershire sance. 



Mix B, add to A, color red with coloring paste, 
paste may be bought in small jars for 20 cts. 

No. j^j. Cheese Sauce. 

A : I lb. or 1 c. cheese, cut fine ; 



Coloring 



14 cts. 



B : 2 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. corn-starch, cook thoroughly, 
\ tsp. mustard, J tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica or dash cayenne, 
\ tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 1^ cs. milk ; 
C : 1 egg, slightly beaten. 

Cook B thoroughly, add A, when boiling add C. 



No. 144. 



Cucumber Sauce. 



20 cts. 



A : 1 c. cucumber, minced, 1 tbsp. vinegar ; 
B : Hollandaise Sauce No. 245. 

Mix A thoroughly with B and serve. 

No. 145. Court Bouillon— For Boiling: Fish. 75 cts. 

A : \ carrot, \ onion, 2 cloves, 3 sprigs parsley, 3 pepper- 
corns, 2 tbsps. lemon-juice or vinegar, 1 tsp. salt, blade 
mace, \ bay-leaf, \ tsp. paprica, dash celery salt. 

Cover A with 2 qts. cold water, when 
warm add fish, simmer gently, after fish is 
cooked strain and put aside to use again. 




SAUCES FOR FISH 



Mo. 146. Dressing: for Baked Fish. 8 cis, 

A : 1 c. bread-crumbs, 3 tbsps. melted butter, 1 tsp. 
minced parsley, \ tsp. minced onion, \ tsp. Worcester- 
shire sauce, 2 tbsps. hot water, 1 tsp. each of capers, 
gherkins, and olives, chopped fine, 1 tsp. tomato catsup, 

1 tsp. lemon-juice or vinegar. 

Mix A thoroughly, adding more water to make it soft 
enough to stuff. Pill fish, sew or tie gash together. 

No. 14'/. Egfg Sauce. jo cis. 

A : White Sauce No. 239 made of hot water, add 1 tsp. 
parsley, 1 tsp. capers, 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, chopped, 
whites cut in rings. 

Mix A thoroughly, serve with boiled fish. 

No. 148. HoIIandaise Sauce. 14 cts. 

A : HoIIandaise Sauce No. 245. 
Add chopped onion, parsley, gherkins, capers or olives to 
suit taste. 

No. I^g. Lobster Sauce. j^ cts, 

A : 1 c. lobster meat chopped fine, dry coral and rub 
smooth with 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 

2 drops Tabasco sauce ; 

B : HoIIandaise Sauce No. 245, omit onion and parsley. 

Add A to B, mix thoroughly. 

No. l§o. Oyster Sauce. 20 cis. 

A : 1 c. oysters, remove hard muscle, parboil in strained 
oyster liquor and cut in small pieces ; 
B : White Sauce No. 229, using oyster liquor instead of 
milk, 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce. 

Mix A with B thoroughly. 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



iVb. i^i. Oyster Dressing. /j cts. 

A : 1 c. oysters, parboiled and cut fine ; 

B : 1 c. crumbs, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tbsp. chopped 

parsley, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, grating nutmeg. 

Mix A with B, soften with oyster liquor. 

No. I §2. Piquante Sauce. lo cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230 ; 

B : 1 tbsp. vinegar, 1 tsp. tarragon vinegar, 1 tbsp. each 
onions, gherkins, capers, mushrooms, and olives chopped 
fine, J tsp. sugar. 

Mix B with A thoroughly. 

No. i§j. Shad Roe Sauce. 2§ cts. 

A : 1 J cs. shad roe boiled in salted acidulated water 30 m ; 
B : Brown Sauce No. 230, 1 tsp. lemon-juice. 

When cold pick A into tiny bits and add to B. 

No. I £4. Shrimp Sauce. 18 cts. 

A : 1 c. shrimps chopped, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 2 drops 

Tabasco sauce ; 

B : White Sauce No. 229,. made with water. 

Add A to B, cook 5 m., color red with coloring paste. 



COLD SAUCES 

No. I££. Cucumber Sauce. 20 cts. 

A : J c. cucumber, chopped fine, \ tsp. salt, J tsp. each 
parsley and onion, minced, 1 tbsp. plain or tarragon vin- 
egar or lemon-juice ; 
B : f c. cream, whipped very stiff. 

Drain A in colander \ an hour, when ready to serve add to 
B carefully, serve in baskets made of lemons, or serve 1 spoon- 
ful to each person. 

64 



SAUCES FOR FISH 



No. l£6. Qeam Sauce. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. whipped cream ; 

B : 3 tbsps. Mayonnaise No. 437, 1 tbsp. tarragon vine- 
gar, 1 tsp. English mustard, 3 tbsp. fresh horse-radish or 
horse-radish flour soaked in warm water until soft, i tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne. 

Mix B thoroughly, add A, or use more Mayonnaise and less 
cream. Mask or cover cold boiled fish and serve ice cold. 

No. 757. Peppcf Saoce. p cis. 

A : 2 cs. shredded cabbage, 2 sweet green peppers, re- 
move seeds, cut into thin strips ; 

B: 1 tsp. celery seed, \ tsp. salt, J c. each sugar and 
vinegar. 

Mix B, add A and serve in small dishes. 

No. 158. Sardine Sauce. JO cts. 

A : 4 large sardines skinned, boned, and mashed smooth; 
B : 1 c. Mayonnaise No. 437. 

Add A to B, mix well and serve with cold fish. 

No. 75^. Tartarc Sauce. jo cts. 

A : 1 c. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437, or Boiled Dressing 
No. 434, 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar, 1 tsp. made mustard ; 
B : 1 tbsp. each capers, parsley, gherkins, olives, chives 
or onion, all chopped fine. 

Add A to B, serve very cold. 

No. 160. Tomato Tartare. jo cts. 

A : Tartare Sauce No. 159 ; 

B : 2 tbsps. tomato catsup, or cooked tomato pulp, 

highly seasoned. 

Add A to B, serve very cold. 

65 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. i6i. Vinegar Sauce. lo cts. 

A : 6 tbsps. vinegar, small piece of ice ; 
B : 1 tsp. each cniTes, parsley, and onion, chopped fine, 
i tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 6 drops Tabasco sance, \ 
t^p. paprica or Chili pepper, \ tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. olive oil. 

Mix £ thoroughly, add A, stir until thick, remove ice, 
serve at once. 



66 




Ant number of entree courses may be served, but 
care should be taken, however, not to repeat materials, 
sauces, or flavors. 

One or two entrees are sufficient unless there are to 
be many courses. They are served from the side with 
a table-spoon of the required sauce on each plate 
which is placed at each cover from the right, or the 
sauce is poured over the whole dish and it is passed 
to the left of each guest. 

After all have finished, remove plates from the 
right. Serve claret from a decanter 
or bottle. 

Many quite palatable entries may 
be made from "left overs," especially 
if these "remnants" were not too 
much cooked when making their first 
appearance. However, this, at best, 
is only a makeshift, for the perfect 
dish should be pre- 
pared, cooked, and sea- 
soned for the purpose 
for which it is intend- 
ed, if it is to be a "mas- 
terpiece." 





THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

HOT ENTREES 

The following methods are used in preparing meat or 
poultry for entrees : 

CREAMED MEAT OR POULTRY 

FOR BOUCHEES, COQUILLES OR RAMEKIN DISHES, 

PAT^, OR VOL AU VENTS, OR SWEDISH 

FONTAGE CROUSTADES. 

Method. 

Boil meat in water seasoned with parsley, onion, bay-leaf, 

and celery. When cold reject all skin and bones and cut into 

pieces J an inch square. Make sauce according to recipe, add 

meat, which is improved by marinating | an hour in French 

Dressing No. 436. Add seasonings, fill dishes, 

cover with browned crumbs and bake 5 m., or 

crumb and brown in the oven, or fill pdte or 

paper cases and serve hot without crumbs. 

To brown crumbs, saut6 | c. in 1 tbsp. of 
butter until brown. 
Dishes k la Poulette are made by adding 1 or 2 raw eggs 
slightly beaten, to creamed dishes. 

Dishes au Gratin are made by adding 2 tbsps. of grated 
cheese to bread-crumbs for covering Coquilles (shells) or Ram- 
ekin dishes. 

To make Bouchees, Pdtes, or Vol au Vents. (See Puff 
Paste No. 541.) 

CROQUETTES 

Method. 

Boil meat as above, chop rather fine, mix with sauce accord- 
ing to recipe, turn out on buttered plate to cool. When 
perfectly cold form into desired shape with 3 wet spoons, or 
if necessary to use hands wet them in cold water ; slightly 
crumb the croquettes, cover with egg slightly beaten, crumb 

6? 




ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

again, fry in deep hot fat, only 3 or 4 at a time. Drain on 
soft paper and serve on a napkin or surround with a sauce. 
The shape should be a roll or a pyramid large enough to 
serve one to each person. 

If frying is ohjectionable roll croquettes in melted butter 
after they are crumbed and bake in hot oven 10 m. 

BouLETTES are croquettes made the size of small balls, 
serving two to each person. 

Quenelles are raw meat-balls sauted in butter, then stewed 
in stock and served with sauce made of the stock. 

FILLETS 

Method. 
Cut cooked or uncooked meat or poultry into oblong pieces 
large enough to serve one to each person. 
Cutlets are large thin slices of meat or fish. 
Steaks are thick slices of meat or fish. 

RAGOUTS 

Method. 

Cut cooked or uncooked meat into pieces 1 inch square and 
stew in sauce. Serve in border of mashed potato or rice ; or 
put in a deep buttered dish, cover with Puff Paste No. 541, 
or baking-powder biscuit dough J an inch thick, ornament 
top with fancy knife-gashes, brush with beaten egg, bake in 
moderate oven | an hour and call it a pie. 

RISSOLES 

Method. 
Roll PufE Paste No. 541 into oblong squares 3 by 4 inches, 
put a spoonful of creamed meat, chicken, sweet-breads, or 
mushrooms on one side, fold over wet edges of paste and 
press together, cut into half circles or leave corners square. 
Brush with beaten egg, bake until light brown, serve with 
sauce, or egg and crumb and fry in hot deep fat. 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

SOUFFLE 

Method. 

Add to creamed meat, chicken, sweet-breads, or mush- 
rooms, egg-yolks well beaten, then whites folded in the last 
moment, turn into deep-buttered dishes, bake and serve im- 
mediately. Soft bread-crumbs are often used instead of flour 
for souffles, and meat is cut into smaller pieces. 

TIMBALES OR MOUSSELINES 

Method. 

Chop cooked or raw meat very fine, mash or press through 
a coarse sieve, add cream or seasonings, egg-yolks beaten well, 
cut and fold in whites beaten stiff. Butter small individual 
tin moulds, decorate with slices of truffle, lobster coral, or 
pignolia nuts and fill two-thirds full, place in pan filled with 
hot water as high as mixture, cover with buttered paper, 
butter side up, bake 15 m., turn out and serve at once sur- 
rounded with sauce. For Mousselines use raw meat and 
equal amount of whipped cream and egg whites, and use 
round-top moulds. The moulds may be lined with the mixt- 
ure, the centres filled with creamed meats or vegetables, or 
hollow moulds may be used, the filling put in after they are 
turned out on plates. 

To fry, bake 10 m., turn out of mould and, when cool, 
crumb, egg, and crumb and fry in hot fat. Serve with sauce. 

TO BLANCH SWEETBREADS 

Method. 
Soak in cold water 1 hour, change water once or twice, 
cover with cold water, add 1 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice or 
vinegar, 3 or 3 cloves, 2 pepper-corns, sprig parsley, and J bay- 
leaf. Simmer gently 20 m., drain, cover with cold water, drain 
again, remove fibres and pipes. To form into fillets, bind 

70 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

together with raw egg, wrap in cheese-cloth, press hetween 
two plates under weight. They are improved by larding. 

N^o. 162. Beefsteak Ragout. jo cis. 

A : 3 lbs. sirloin steak (see Eagoiats), dust with salt and 

pepper ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

add IJ cs. liquor from meat, or stock, \ tsp. onion-juice, 

1 tsp. parsley, minced, \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet ; 

C : 1 c. dried mushrooms, soaked over night, or 1 c. 

oysters and 1 tbsp. ham, minced. 
Put A in double boiler, cover and heat slowly until very hot, 
remove from fire, add B, cook until boiling, then simmer until 
meat is tender, add C ; when boiling again, serve or make into 
a pie, as directed in Ragolits. 

No. i6j. Beef Tongue Fillets, Baked. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 large tongue, boil 1 hour and cut into fillets (see 

Fillets) ; 

B : 1 tbsp. each celery, onion, carrot, and parsley, 1 c. 

tongue liquor ; 

C : 2 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, browned, 1 c. liquor 

from pan, strained, 1 c. stramed tomatoes. 
Place A on rack in covered roaster, add B, bake 2 hours, 
basting often, remove cover, brown and place on hot dish, 
pour C over and serve. 

No. 164. Bouchees Savory. ^o cts. 

A : 6 bouchees (see Puff Paste No. 541) ; 
B : 1 c. of a mixture of any of the following : cooked 
chicken, game, ham, mushrooms, or artichoke fonds, all 
chopped very fine, season with salt, paprica, and lemon- 
juice and anchovy, truffles, or grated cheese ; 
C : \ Madeira Sauce No. 247, or Brown Sauce No. 230. 
Mix B thoroughly, add to C, when boiling fill A, put on 
covers and serve very hot. 

No. 165. Calf's-feet Terrapin. yo cts. 

A : 4 calf's feet, wash thoroughly, 1 slice onion, 1 sprig 
parsley, 6 pepper-corns and \ tsp. salt ; 

71 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : 3 tbsps. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked thoroughly •, 
C : 6 Egg Balls, No. 73, and 3 tbsps. white wine or sherry, 
salt, pepper, mustard, and allspice to taste. 

Boil A until meat is tender, remoTe bones, return bones to 
kettle and reduce stock to 1 c, strain into B, add meat 
and 0. When boiling serve. 

No. j66. Calf s-head a la Vinaigffette. 6y cts. 

A : \ calf's head cleaned and scalded, cover with cold 

water, boil \ an hour, plunge into cold water, remove 

meat and cut into small pieces ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter and % tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly ; 

C : 4 cloves, 3 pepper-corns, small onion and carrot, 2 

bay-leaves, \ tsp. thyme, 2 tbsps. vinegar ; 

D : Vinaigrette Sauce No. 269. 

Add A to B, add C, cover with hot water, simmer 3 h., 
put meat on hot dish, cover with D. 

No. l6y. Calf's-head Ragfout with Mushrooms. 75 cts. 

A : 3 cs. calf's-head meat, cooked (see No. 166), 1 c. 
mushrooms, slice and saut6 in butter, add 3 tbsps. ar- 
rowroot, \ tsp. each onion-juice, salt, and paprica, 1 
tsp. parsley, minced ; 
B : IJ cs. calf's-head stock, \ c. tomato pulp. 

Cook A, add B, when boiling, serve. 

No. 168. Calf's-heart FJlIcts, Sauted. 23 cts. 

A : 3 hearts cut into 6 fillets (see Fillets), roll in flour, 

saute in 1 tbsp. butter, dust with salt and pepper ; 

B : 2 shallots or \ an onion, and 1 tbsp. parsley, minced. 

Cook A until brown, place on hot dish, add B to pan, cook 
5 m., pour over fillets and serve. 

No. l6(). CalFs-Iiver Ragout. 23 cts. 

A : 1 lb. liver, parboil 5 m. (see Ragouts), dredge with 
flour, dust with salt and pepper, saut6 in 2 slices bacon 
until brown on both sides ; 
72 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

B : 1 tbsp. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cook until brown, add 
1 c. hot stock or water ; 

C : 1 tbsp. each, red or white wine, Worcestershire sauce 
and mushroom catsup. 

Place A on hot dish, cook B, when boiling add C and pour 
over liver. 

No. lyo. Chicken, Ocamcd. 6o cis. 

A : 3 cs. chicken, or 1^ cs. chicken, | c. mushrooms and 
3 truffles ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. arrowroot or flour, cooked 
thoroughly, add \ c. hot,'thick chicken stock, 1 c. cream 
or rich milk, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 1 tsp. parsley 
minced, ^ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet or grating nutmeg. 

Cook B, add A, and proceed as directed in Creamed Meat 
or Poultry. 

N^o. lyi. Chicken Croquettes. 6o cts, 

A : 3 cs. chicken (see Croquettes) ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter, and 4 tbsps. flour, cooked together, \ c. 
thick chicken stock, f c. cream, J tsp. salt, dash cay- 
enne; 

C : 1 tsp. parsley, minced, \ tsp. onion-juice, 1 tsp. 
lemon -juice ; or 1 truffle, chopped fine, .1 tbsp. sherry or 
Madeira, and grating nutmeg. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling add C, and proceed as direct- 
ed in Croquettes. Serve with Mushroom Sauce No. 350. 

No. i'^2. Chicken Croquettes Supreme. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. white chicken meat, \ c. mushrooms, 3 artichoke 
fonds, all minced fine ; artichoke fonds may be bought in 
glass jars for 60 cts. ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. arrowroot, cooked thor- 
oughly, 1 c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, nutmeg ; 
C : 6 truffles, chopped fine, 6 tbsps. boiled rice, moistened 
with stock or cream, dash salt and pepper and one ^gg, 
slightly beaten. 

Cook B, add A, spread quite thin on buttered tin, when 
cold cut out in squares, press each piece out in your hand, fill 

73 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

with C, pinch corners together, roll into shape and proceed as 
directed in Oroqnettes. Serve with Supreme Sauce No. 258, 
or with Creamed Peas 'No. 335. 

JV^o. lyj. Chicken Croquette Apples en Surprise, ^o cts. 

A : Make ^ of mixture A and B in No. 171, add 1 egg, 
slightly beaten. 

Press A out as in No. 172, fill with Creamed Sweetbreads 
No. 190, or peas, form into round balls, crumb, egg and 
crumb, press ball in at each end for stem and blossom, fry 
and stick a clove in one end and serve with Tomato Cream 
Sauce No. 260. 

//o. i/^. Chicken Fillets, Deviled. 62 cis. 

A : 6 small, thin, raw fillets without bone (see Fillets), 
dip in 2 tbsps. melted butter and broil 10 to 15 m. ; 

B : 2 tbsps. "Worcestershire sauce, 3 tbsps. vinegar, 1 tsp. 
made mustard, \ tsp. salt, J tsp. Chili pepper or paprica. 

Place A on hot dish, spread with butter, mix B thoroughly, 
pour over A and serve. 

N^o. iy§. Chicken Livers and Pat^ de Foie Gras 6^ cts. 
in Bouchees or Croustades. 

A : 1 c. chicken livers, saute in salt pork, then cover 
with stock or Madeira ; 

B : i cup pdte de foie gras cut into dice, 2 trufiQes, sliced; 
C : 6 Bouchee cases No. 541, or Croustades No. 222. 

Cook A until tender, chop very fine, add B, season with 
salt and cayenne and moisten with Madeira. When hot fill C, 
and serve as a light entree. 

No. iy6. Chicken l^oenelfes."* - — 5.^ cts. 

A : 2 c. raw chicken, 1 tbsp. ham, minced fine, 1 tsp. 
onion-juice, 2 tbsps. butter, 2 tbsps. cream, 2 egg-yolks, 
beaten ; 

B : J c. milk, scalded with \ c, bread-crumbs ; 
C : 2 whites, beaten stiff ; 
74 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

D : 2 cs. stock from chicken-bones ; 

E : 1 tbsp. butter and 2 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly. 

Beat B until smooth, add A, when boiling fold in C, form 
into oval balls with 2 tablespoons, saute until brown, add D, 
cover and simmer J an hour, place on hot dish, add sauce 
from pan to E, season, when boiling pour around quenelles. 

JVo. 777. Chicken Ragout. ^^ cts. 

A : 2 cs. chicken in inch pieces (see Eagoiits) ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter and 1 tbsp. flour or arrowroot, cooked 

together, 1 c. stock, 1 tsp. parsley, minced, J tsp. Kitchen 

Bouquet, \ tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica ; 

C : 2 egg-yolks, beaten slightly ; 

D : Rice Balls No. 72, made with 1 tsp. curry. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling add C, serve with D. 

N^o. iy8. Chicken Souffle. 55 cts. 

A : Chicken, Creamed, No. 170 ; 

B : J c. bread-crumbs, 3 egg-yolks, well beaten ; 

C : 3 whites, beaten stiff, 3 tbsps. sherry. 

Cook A, add B, stir thoroughly, fold in 0, bake in buttered 
dish or small cups \ an hoar. A cover of fresh mushrooms 
may be added just before baking. Serve in baking-dish im- 
mediately. 

No. lyo. Chicken Timbales or Mousselines. 57 cts. 

A : Eaw white meat- from a 2 lb. chicken, and 1 egg-white 
(see Timbales) ; 

B : 1 c. cream, whipped, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : 4 egg-whites, beaten very stiff. 

Add B to A, gradually, beating constantly, fold in C, deco- 
rate buttered moulds with slices of truffle, fill and proceed as 
directed in Timbales. Bake 15 m., turn out and serve with 
Truffled Mushroom Sauce No. 261. 

Monsseline moulds are the shape of a thimble, while tim- 
bale moulds are flat-bottomed. 

75 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. l8o. Chicken Timbales en Surprise. J2 cts. 

A : 1 c. cooked chicken ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, melted, \ c. fine bread-crumbs, moist- 
ened in 4 tbsps. cream, 3 egg-yolks, well beaten, J tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne, 1 tsp. parsley, | tsp. onion-juice or 
grating nutmeg ; 
C : ^ c. cream, 2 egg-whites, beaten very stiff. 

Mix B, add A, then add C, line buttered moulds with 
mixture, fill with creamed sweetbreads, mushrooms, or peas, 
proceed as directed in Timbales, or fill centre with chicken 
livers or game cut fine and mixed with gravy or cream sauce. 

No. i8i. Chicken and Ham Timbales. 2^ cts. 

A : f c. chicken white meat, cooked, \ c. cooked ham ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked thoroughly, 
\ c. chicken stock or gravy ; 
C : J c. cream, 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Chop and mash A very fine, add to B, when boiling re- 
move from fire and cool. When very cold add 0, line mould 
and proceed as directed in Timbales. 

No. 182. Chicken Livef Timbales. 20 cts. 

A : I c. chicken livers, boiled, \ c. boiled rice, \ tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 1 egg-yolk, beaten, and 2 
truffles, chopped fine, or 1 tsp. parsley, minced, and \ tsp. 
Kitchen Bouquet ; 
B : ^ c. cream, 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Mix A thoroughly, add B carefully, fill small moulds, pro- 
ceed as directed in Timbales. 

No. 18 J. Chicken Vol au Vents. ^5 cts. 

A : 1| cs. cooked chicken cut in dice, 1 c. green or canned 
peas ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 
add 1 c. chicken stock, J c. strained tomatoes, \ tsp. salt, 
76 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

J red pepper cut in bits, 1 tsp. lemon- juice, and J tap. 

onion-juice ; 

C : Vol au Vents No. 541. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling serve in C. 

N^o. j8^. G>med Beef, Creamed. 20 cts. 

A : 2 OS. cooked corned beef ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

1 tbsp. lemon-juice, dash celery salt and cayenne ; 

C : 1| OS. milk, sprig parsley, slice onion, scald and strain. 

Cook B, add C slowly, when boiling and smooth add A, 
and proceed as directed in Creamed Meat or Poultry. 

No. 18 §. Girned Beef SoufflC. jo cts. 

A : Follow Recipe No. 184, add 3 egg-yolks, beaten well, 

\ tsp. onion-juice ; 

B : Whites beaten stiff. 

Mix A, fold in B, and proceed as directed in Soufflds. 

No. 186. Kidney Fillets, Broiled or Sauted. 75 cts. 

A : 6 kidney fillets, trim and soak in salt water 1 hour. 
(See Fillets.) 

B : 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tsp. mustard, J tsp. salt, 
dash pepper ; 

C : ^ c. fine i9read-crumbs ; 

D : Madeira Sauce No. 347, or add \ can French mush- 
rooms, cut into slices, to the kidneys while cooking. 

Dip A into B, then in C, broil 10 m. Serve with a bit of 
butter on each fillet, or saute in butter browned with onions 
about 5 m., and serve with D. Kidneys should be cooked 
quickly. 

No. i8y. Lamb Croquettes. ^o cts. 

A : 2 cs. lamb, or 1 c. lamb, 1 c. boiled potatoes, cut fine, 
and 1 tsp. minced capers. 

Follow Eecipe No. 171, using A instead of chicken, and 
season highly. 

77 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. i88. Lamb Souffle. ^5 cts. 

A : 2 cs. lamb, 1 tsp. Kitchen Bouquet. 
Follow Eecipe ISTo. 178, using A instead of chicken and 
omit sherry. 

No. i8g. Marrow Bones. 2^ cts. 

A : 6 bones 3 inches long, trim thoroughly and roll each 

one in cheese-cloth ; 

B : Maitre d'H6tel Sauce No. 348. 

Boil A 1 hour, remove cloth, serve on round slices toast, 
with B poured over. 

No. igo. Sweetbreads, Qeamed. p<5 cts. 

A : 3 cs. blanched sweetbreads in small pieces, 4 mush- 
rooms sliced, 3 truffles minced, cook 3 m. in 1 tbsp. 
butter, 2 tbsps. white wine, 3 tbsps. mushroom liquor, 
or marinate in French Dressing No. 436 ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 
add 1^ cs. hot cream or milk, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne and 
nutmeg, or \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet and 1 tsp. parsley, 
minced. 

Cook B, when boiling add A, thoroughly drained, and pro- 
ceed as directed in Creamed Meat or Poultry. 

No. igi. Sweetbreads and Chicken, G-eamed. .^5 cts. 

A : 1 c. sweetbreads, blanched (see page 70), 1 c. cooked 
chicken, cut fine, 1 tbsp. ham, minced, 3 truffles, sliced, 
and 4 mushrooms, or 3 or 3 cockscombs, sliced ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. arrowroot, 1^ c. hot cream, 
\ tsp. salt, blade mace, dash cayenne. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling proceed as directed in 
Creamed Meats or Poultry. 

No. ig2. Sweetbread Croquettes or Chops. y^ cts. 

A : 3 cs. blanched sweetbreads, or 1 c. sweetbreads, \ 
c. mushrooms and \ c. cooked chicken, chopped fine 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

(or green peas and J c. blanched almonds, chopped fine) 

and 1 truffle ; 

B : 2 tbsps. bntter and 4 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

add IJ OS. cream or milk, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 

C : 1 tsp. parsley, minced, J tsp. onion-juice and 1 tbsp. 

lemon-juice, or 1 truffle, chopped fine, 1 tbsp. sherry or 

Madeira, and grating of nutmeg. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling add C, and proceed as 
directed in Croquettes. Serve with creamed peas or VeloutS 
Sauce No. 363. 

JVo. ipj. Sweetbread Fillets, Baked. $i.o6. 

A : \\ lbs. sweetbreads, blanched and made into 6 fillets 
. (see Fillets), dust with salt and pepper and roll in flour ; 
B : 3 or 4 slices bacon, or have fillets larded ; 
C : 3 tbsps. butter in bits, \ c. stock ; 
D : Orange Sauce No. 354. 

Put B in baking-pan, cover with A, add C, bake \ an hour, 
basting frequently, serve with sauce from pan poured over, 
or omit B, add juice of 1 orange to C, and serve with D. 

No. ig4. Sweetbread Fillets, Broiled. $i.oo. 

A : \\ lbs. sweetbreads, blanched and made into 6 fillets, 

and 6 whole large mushrooms ; 

B : 3 tbsps. melted butter or oil, i tsp. salt, dash pepper 

and cayenne ; 

C : Maitre d'Hdtel Sauce No. 348. 

Dip A into B, run on skewers alternately with mushrooms, 
broil 10 m., serve with C poured over. 

No. ig^. Sweetbread Fillets, Glazed. $i.O£. 

A : 1^ lbs. sweetbreads, larded and made into 6 fillets, 1 
small carrot and 1 onion, sliced, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig pars- 
ley, i tsp. salt, dash pepper, 1 c, thick stock ; 
B : Mushroom Sauce No. 350. 

Put A in baking-pan, bake uncovered until stock is absorbed, 
basting often. Serve with B. 

79 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. ig6. Sweetbread Fillets, Fried or Sauted. $l.l8. 

A : 1^ lbs. sweetbreads^ blanched (see page 70) and made 
into 6 fillets ; 

B : 1 slice onion, 3 mushrooms, 1 tsp. parsley, all minced 
fine, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 2 drops Kitchen Bouquet ; 
C : Tomato Cream Sauce No. 360. 

Eoll A in flour, saute in butter or bacon, add B, serye 
with fat from pan and cover with large mushrooms, broiled 
or sauted, or egg, crumb, and fry and serye with C poured 
around. 

No. jgy. Sweetbread Fillets ao Parmesan, Fried. $i.io. 

K.: \\ lbs. blanched sweetbreads, made into 6 fillets ; 
B : 1 tbsp. melted butter, % tbsps. Parmesan cheese, \ 
tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : Tomato Sauce No. 259. 

Dip A into B, crumb, egg and crumb and fry in hot fat. 
Serve with 0. 

No. ig8. Sweetbreads and Mashrooms in Fontage yo cts. 
Croustades or Vol aa Vents. 

A : 1^ cs. blanched sweetbreads, in small pieces, \ c. fresh 

mushrooms, saut6d in butter ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cooked thoroughly, 

add f c. highly seasoned chicken or white stock, \ c. 

cream, \ tsp. each salt and paprica ; 

C : 1 egg-yolk, beaten, \ c. sherry. 

Cook B, when boiling add A, simmer in double boiler 30 
m., add C and fill Fontage Croustades No. 334 or Vol au 
Vents No. 541. 

No. igg. Sweetbread Ragout. 6^ cts. 

A : 1 c. blanched sweetbreads, \ c. mushrooms, sliced, 1 
truffle and one chicken liver, cut into dice, 1 cockscomb, 
cut into small pieces ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter f\nd 3 tbsps. flour, browned, \\ cs. stock ; 
C : 6 small Chicken Quenelles No. 176, 3 tbsps. Madeira, 
80 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

Cook B, add A, when boiling add C, and serve in a large 
vol au vent of Puff Paste No. 541. 

Cockscombs may be bought in jars at 85 cts., and are an 
Italian dainty. 

No. 200. Sweetbread Timbales^ Fried. 6^ cts. 

A : 1 c. blanched sweetbreads, chopped fine (see Tim- 
bales) ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ c. fine bread-crumbs soaked in 4 
tbsps. cream, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 2 
egg-yolks ; 

C : I c. cream, 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff ; 
D : 1 tbsp. butter, 3 tbsps. flour ; cook thoroughly, add 
2 cs. thick chicken-stock, J c. minced chicken, J tsp. salt, 
dash cayenne, 4 egg-yolks, beaten thick. 

Mix B, add A, fill timbale or ring-moulds ; proceed as di- 
rected for Timbales. When cold, dip in D, mixed thoroughly, 
crumb, egg, and crumb, and plunge into very hot fat. 

No. 20I, Sweetbreads and Truffles, in 6o cts. 

Croustades. 

A : i lb. sweetbreads, blanched, 4 truffles, out in dice j 

B : Bechamel Sauce No. 233 ; 

C : Bread Croustades ISTo. 222, or Fontage Croustades 

No. 224 ; 

D : J c. fine bread-crumbs, sauted in 1 tbsp. butter, 1 

tbsp. Parmesan cheese. 

Saute A slightly in butter, add to B ; when boiling, fill C, 
cover with D, and brown slightly. 

No. 202. Tongue Fillets, Broiled or Fried. 2J cts. 

A : 3 lambs' tongues, boil in stock with 1 tbsp. lemon- 
juice, 2 hours ; 

B : 2 tbsps. melted butter, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : Tomato Sauce No. 259. 

Skin and press A ; when cold, split in two lengthwise, dip 
in B, and broil, or egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Serve 
with C. 

81 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 20J. Tongae Salmi Ragfout. 20 cts. 

A : 3 cs. tongae-meat (see Eagouts) ; 

B : Madeira Sauce No. 247, and 1 doz. stoned olives or 

Pirn Olas ; 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce. 

Cook B, add A, and serve. Pirn Olas are olives stuffed 

with sweet red pepper. 

No. 204. Trfpe Ragout with Celery. jo cts. 

A : 1 lb. tripe, cut into strips ; 

B * \ onion, sliced and cooked in 1 tbsp. beef-drippings 

or butter ; 

C : 1 c. strained tomatoes, | tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 

D : 1 c. celery, cut in 1-inch sticks. 

Add A to B, cook 10 m., add C, simmer J hour, add D, 
simmer until celery is tender. Serve sprinkled with Parme- 
san cheese. 
No. 20§. Veal Croquettes. J5 cis. 

A : 2 cs. veal, or 1 c. veal and 1 c. raw oysters, cut fine, 

or 1\ cs. veal and i c. boiled rice ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter and 4 tbsps. flour ; cook thoroughly, 

add \ c. thick veal-stock, f c. cream or milk, ^ tsp. salt, 

J tsp. paprica ; 

: J tsp. onion -juice, 1 tsp. parsley, minced ; grating 

lemon-peel, dash nutmeg, 1 tbsp. tomato catsup. 

Cook B, add A ; when boiling, add C, and proceed as di- 
rected in Croquettes. 

No. 206. Veal Ragout au Parmesan. ^^ cis. 

A : 2 lbs. lean, raw veal, cut in small pieces, roll in 

flour and brown in 1 tbsp. butter, add 1 qt. hot water, 

\ tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica ; 

B : \ can tomatoes ; 

C : ^ package hot, boiled spaghetti ; 

D : J c. Parmesan cheese. 

Simmer A 2 hours, add B, cook J an hour, add 0. Serve, 
sprinkled with D. 

82 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 



N^o. 2oy. Veal Of Lamb Timbates. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. cooked veal or lamb, minced fine ; 
B : 1 tbsp. bntter, \ c. bread-crumbs, soaked in 4 tbsps. 
milk, 2 egg-yolks, well beaten, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne 
and nutmeg, 1 tsp. parsley, and \ tsp. chives, minced ; 
C : f c. cream, 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Mix B over fire ; when hot, add A, then fold in 0, and 
proceed as directed in Timbales. 



COLD ENTRlfeES 

FOR EVENING COLLATIONS, LUNCHEONS, AND WARM- 
WEATHER DINNERS. 

No. 208. Aspic Jelly. jo cts. 

A : 2 qts. clear Consomm6 No. 23, 1 sprig tarragon, 1 
tbsp. tarragon vinegar or lemon-juice ; 
B : 2 tbsps. Madeira wine or sherry. This may be omit- 
ted ; 

C : 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine, dissolved in \ c. warm 

water. 

Boil A until reduced to 1 qt., take from fire, add B, clear 

again if necessary ; then add C, strain and use as a mould for 

meats and salads, or pour into shallow pan ; when cold, cut 

in cubes or diamonds and use as a garnish. 

No. 2og. Beef Loaf. 4^ cts. 

A : 3 lbs. round of beef, 2 qts. cold water, 1 tsp. salt ; 
B : 2 tbsps. vinegar, 1 tsp. mixed spices, J tsp. paprica, 
juice and grated rind 1 lemon. 
Simmer A until tender, cool in the liquor. When cold, 
remove bones and skin and chop fine. Boil liqnor until re- 
duced to 2 cs., add B, mix 1 c. with meat thoroughly, press 
in buttered mould, pour remainder of liquor over. When cold, 
serve in slices with lettuce or cress salad. 

83 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 2IO. Chicken or Game Qeam in Aspic. 60 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cooked chicken or game, mince and pound fine, 
add 1 tbsp. horse-radish, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, dash 
nutmeg or celery salt, 1 c. whipped cream ; 
B : 1 c. Aspic Jelly No. 308. 
Mix A thoroughly, fill 6 small cups lined with B ; place 
on ice for 3 hours, turn out on lettuce, and serve with salad. 

No. 211. Chicken Galantine. 65 cts. 

A : 3-lb. chicken, boiled, skinned, and cut from bones in 
strips ; 

B : Chicken-stock, boiled down to 1 qt. clear (see Clear 
Soups), add \ tsp. each salt and paprica, dash celery salt, 
1 tsp. lemon- juice, 1 tsp. parsley, 1 tbsp. granulated 
gelatine, dissolved. 

Pack A in buttered oblong pan in alternate layers of white 
and dark meat, fill pan a size larger with \ an inch of B ; 
when set, turn in the chicken taken from other pan, pour in 
remainder of jelly around the sides. This must be perfectly 
clear. When firm, turn out and serve with salad. 

No. 212. Chicken Mousse. jj cts. 

A : 1 c. boiled chicken, chopped and pounded fine, 1 

truffle, chopped, or 1 tbsp. pite de foie gras, 1 tbsp. 

sherry ; 

B : 1 c. hot chicken-stock, strained over beaten yolks 2 

eggs, \ tsp. each salt and paprica, dash celery salt ; 

C : 1 tsp. granulated gelatine dissolved in little water, 1 

c. whipped cream, 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Cook B 1 m., add A, mix thoroughly, when cool stir in C, 
beat until nearly set, turn into a wet mould and place on ice 
for 3 hours. Serve with lettuce or celery salad. 

No. 213. Ham Farci. $1-50. 

A : Whole ham, have bone removed and soak over night ; 
B : 1 c. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tsp. each 
84 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

chopped chives, onions, parsley, ■Worcestershire sance, 
tomato catsup, 3 drops Tabasco sauce, and 2 truffles, 
chopped fine. 

Stuff A with B, roll in cheese-cloth, boil in water with a 
little vinegar or cider 4 or 5 hours, or until tender, leave in 
water until cold under a weight to press it. When ready 
to serve cut in slices. 

No. 21 /f.. Ham Mousse. ^o cts. 

A : 2 cs. boiled ham, chopped and pounded very fine, dash 
cayenne, 1 tsp. French mustard ; 

B : ^ c. Aspic Jelly No. 208, or 1 tsp. granulated gela- 
tine, dissolved in \ c. hot water, and \ c. cream, whipped ; 
C : Cold Cream Sauce No. 156. 

Mix A with B thoroughly, turn into a square mould, place 
on ice for 2 or 3 hours. Cut in thin slices and serve with 0, 
a spoonful on each. 

No. 21^. Lobster Mousse. 70 cts. 

A : 2 cs. lobster-meat, chopped very fine and marinated 

in French Dressing No. 436 \ an hour ; 

B : J c. Aspic Jelly No. 208, or 1 tsp. gelatine, dissolved, 

and \ c. Mayonnaise Cream Dressing No. 438 ; 

C : 2 truffles, sliced. 

Garnish mould with C, drain A, mix with B, fill mould, 
place on ice for 3 hours. Serve with Cucumber Salad No. 
456. 

No. 216. Olive Timbales. 20 cts. 

A : 6 Anchovy stuffed olives or Pim Olasor plain olives ; 
B : 1 c. Aspic Jelly No. 208, colored light green ; 
C : 2 hard-boiled egg-whites, cut into fancy slices ; 
D : Yolks put through a sieve. 

Line very small timbale moulds with B, garnish with C, 

then add A and fill with B, place on ice for 3 hours. Serve 

sprinkled with D. 

85 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 2iy. Pat^ dc Foie Gras en Surprise. 65 cts. 

A : i jar pdt6 de foie gras, softened with cream; 
B : 1 c. Aspic Jelly No. 208, mixed with 1 c. whipped 
cream, or use all jelly. 
Line mould with B, when set fill with A, place on ice for 3 
hours. Serve in slices. 

No. 218. Veal Jelly Moald. 30 cts. 

A : Knuckle of veal, well covered with meat, boil until 
tender, with 1 tsp. onion, 1 tbsp. celery, 1 tsp. parsley, 
minced, 1 tsp. salt, \ tsp. cloves, dash cayenne and \ tsp. 
Kitchen Bouquet ; 
B : 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. 

Remove meat from A, chop fine, return bones to kettle and 
boil until liquor is reduced to 1 pt. Line mould with B, 
pour in \ an inch of stock, strained, mix remainder stock with 
meat, fill mould, place on ice for 3 hours. Serve cut in slices 
with salad. 

No. 2ig. Veal Loaf. /fo cts. 

A : 2 lbs. lean veal, \ lb. each ham and salt pork, chopped 
very fine. 

B : I c. bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, 2 tbsps. melted 
butter, \ tsp. each salt, paprica, and onion-juice,^ tsp. 
each allspice and cloves, dash nutmeg, grated peel and 
juice of I lemon, 1 egg, well beaten. 

Mix A, add B, mix thoroughly, fill square baking-pan and 
bake 1 hour, basting with melted butter, or cover with salt 
pork. Serve cold in slices. 

No. 220. Veal and Ham Pie. 75 cts. 

A : i c. calf s head or 2 lbs. veal cutlet, boiled with a 
bunch of herbs, or 1 tbsp. Kitchen Bouquet, \ an onion, 
3 cloves, 1 tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, 1 tbsp. vinegar ; 
88 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

B : 1 c. lean boiled ham, cut in slices or dice, 2 hard- 
boiled eggSj cut in slices, and grated peel of lemon. 

Boil A until tender, cut meat into inch pieces, add B, fill 
deep dish, add stock reduced to 1 pt. and strained. Cover 
with plain paste or Puff Paste No. 541 and bake J or f of an 
hour in moderate oven. Serve cold. 



GARNISHINGS FOR ENTREES. 

No. 221. Bfcad Roulettes or Balls. lo cts. 

A : 1 c. coarse bread-crumbs, soaked in \ c. milk ; 

B : 1 egg, beaten slightly, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 1 tsp. 

parsley minced. 

Mix A with B, form into small balls, crumb, egg and 
crumb and fry in hot fat. 

No. 222. Bread Croustades. ro cts. 

A : 6 slices bread without crust, 1\ inches thick ; 
B : 2 tbsps. melted butter. 

Cut A into heart, square or oblong shapes with cutter, 
scoop out the inside, leaving a wall and bottom \ inch thick. 
Brush them with B, and brown in the oven. 

No. 22 J. Cream Jelly to Mask Poultry, Meats, 20 cts. 

or Game. 

A : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 4 tbsps. arrowroot, \ tsp. salt, 
dash cayenne, blade mace, cook until smooth, add gradu- 
ally \ c. hot white stock, 1 c. cream and 1 tbsp. granu- 
lated gelatine, dissolved in little water ; 
B : 2 egg-yolks or coloring paste. 

Cook A until boiling, add \ c. more stock if eggs are 
used, color with B, when boiling, strain and cool. Spread 
over meat or poultry, set on ice to harden. 

87 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 224.. Fontage Ooostadcs, or Swedish 6 cts. 

Timbale Cases. 

A : i c. milk, add \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. sugar and | c. flour, 
all mixed thorouglily together, then 1 egg, well beaten ; 
B : 1 tbsp. olive oil or melted butter. 

Mix A thoroughly, add B, put a little of the mixture in a 
cup. Heat fontage or timbale iron in very hot lard, plunge 
it in cup, then into lard until light brown. Kemove from 
iron, drain cases on paper, when cold dip edges in egg-white, 
slightly beaten, then in sifted hard-boiled egg-yolks, then in 
finely minced parsley. Fill cases with Chicken, Mushrooms, 
or Sweetbreads, Creamed (see Creamed Meat and Poultry). 

No. 22^. Force-meat Balls. i^ cts. 

A : 1 c. of any cooked meat, chop and pound fine, season 
with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and minced parsley or 
chives, or cook meat in butter browned with onion ; 
when cold chop ; 
B : J c. bread-crumbs, soaked in hot milk, 1 beaten egg. 

Mix A thoroughly, add B, form into balls, poach, or roll in 
flour, saut6 in butter and serve with entr6es or meats. Any 
cold game or chicken-livers may be used. 

No. 226. Glaze to Cover Meats, Entrees, or 8 cts. 
Vegetables. 

A : 1 qt. white stock or Consomme No. 33, well sea- 
soned : 
B : \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet, or color with caramel. 

Boil A until reduced to 1 c, add B, apply with brush 
while warm, or keep in covered jar and reheat when needed. 

No. 22^. Macaroni or Spaglietti Tiint>ak Cases. 10 cts. 

A : 1 c. spaghetti, boiled whole, or 
B : 1 c. macaroni, boiled and cut into J-inch pieces ; 
C : 1 truffle, cut in fancy slices. 
88 



ENTRfeS OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

Put C in bottom of buttered timbale moulds, take end of 
A and wind around sides of mould, making a wall, or put B 
side to side until case is formed. Fill with timbale mixtures 
and poacb (see Timbales). 

No. 228. Spanish Force-meat. /2 cts. 

A : 1 green pepper, 1 fresh tomato, 1 c. fresh shrimps, 
1 tbsp. butter, J tsp. salt. 

Mix A thoroughly and cook 10 m., or cook butter with 
onion until brown before adding the other ingredients. 
Spread over chops or fish, or roll in cutlets of meat or fish. 



8» 




For convenience this section is separated into four 
divisions: Hot Sauces, Hot Dressings, Cold Sauces, 
and Fruit Kelisties. 

HOT SAUCES 

No. 22g. White Sauce. 8 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. butter, very hot, 3 tbsps. flour, mixed with \ 

tsp. salt, and dash pepper ; 

B : 1^ cs. hot milk-cream, white stock or water. 

Cook A, stirring constantly until per- 
fectly smooth and boiling, add B a little 
at a time, stir until boiling and beat 
until smooth. If made of cream or 
stock, %\ tbsps. flour will be sufficient. 
Strain and serve. 

No. 2JO. Brown Sauce. 8 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 3 tbsps. 
flour, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper ; 
B : Ig cs. stock. 

Cook A until brown, stirring con- 
stantly, add B a little at a time, stir and beat until smooth 
and boiling, strain and serve. 




No. 2JI. Allemande Sauce, for Vegetables. 

A : Veloute Sauce Ko. 262 ; 
B : 2 beaten eggs. 

Add B to A, beat and cook until boiling. 

90 



l6 cts. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 



No. 2J2. Beiamaise Sauce, for Beefsteak. 75 cts. 

A : 3 egg-yolks slightly beaten, 1 tbsp. water, 1 tsp. 
butter ; 

B : 4 tbsps. butter, 1 at a time, \ tsp. salt, dasb cayenne ; 
C : 1 tsp. each tarragon or plain vinegar, tarragon leaves 
and parsley minced. 

Cook A in double boiler until eggs begin to thicken, stir- 
ring constantly, add B, stir until boiling, add C and spread 
over steak, or add 3 tbsps. of tomato pulp and serve with 
shrimps saut6d in butter. 

No. 2JJ. Becliatnel Sauce, foi" Meats and Poultry. 10 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour or arrowroot, J 
tsp. salt, dash nutmeg and cayenne ; 
B : 1 c. hot stock, ^ c. hot cream ; 
C : 1 egg-yolk, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice. 

Cook A until smooth, add B gradually, when boiling add 
C, beat 1 m. and serve. 

No. 2J^. Butter Sauce, for Boiled Artichokes or 18 cts. 
Asparagfus. 

A : 4 egg-yolks, beaten, J c. cold water, 3 tbsps. vinegar 
or lemon-juice, | tsp. onion-juice, ^ tsp. salt, dash cay- 
enne ; 
B : ^ c. butter, cut in small pieces. 

Cook A in double boiler, beat until thick, then add B, one 
piece at a time, stirring constantly. When boiling serve. 
This sauce should be rather thick and made rich, thick, and 
frothy by using half the amount of water and adding to B J c. 
cream. 

No. 23^. Black Butter Sauce, for Eggs Sauted. 8 cts. 

A : 4 tbsps. butter ; 

B : 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, 1 tbsp. vinegar. 

Cook A until brown, add B and serve. 

91 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. 2^6. Bread Sauce, foi- Game. 8 cts. 

A : 2. cs milk, \ onion, 2 cloves, sprig parsley, blade mace, 

\ tsp. salt, ^ tsp. paprica ; 

B : i c. bread-crumbs, 2 tbsps. butter. 

Simmer A J an hour, strain, return to double boiler, add 
B, simmer h an hour and serve. 

No. 2j^. Caper Sauce, for Boiled Mutton. to cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour, \ tsp. salt, | tsp, 
onion-juice, \ tsp. Chili pepper, dash cayenne ; 
B : \\ cs. boiling water, 1 tbsp. butter in bits, 4 tbsps. 
capers, 1 tbsp. caper vinegar. 

Cook A until smooth, add B, slowly, stir until smooth, 
simmer 10 m. and serve. 

No. 2j8. Champagne Sauce, for Ham. 55 cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230 ; 

B : 1 c. American champagne or white wine, 1 tsp. sugar, 

3 cloves, 3 pepper-corns, or 1 tbsp. sweet red peppers, 

minced. 

Sweet red peppers, or Pimentos, may be bought in cans for 
15 cts. 

No. 2jg. Chicken Sauce, for Sweetbreads. 25 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. hot butter, 1 tbsp. flour, J tsp, salt, dash cay- 
enne ; 

B : 1 c. hot chicken stock, J c. cream, 1 c. chicken, cut 
into small pieces, 1 tbsp. parsley ; 
C : 3 egg-yolks, beaten. 

Cook A thoroughly, add B, a little at a time, when boiling 
add C, stir 1 m. and serve. 

No. 240. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Chicken. 75 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter or fat from turkey or chicken, 2 tbsps. 
flour, \ tsp, salt, \ tsp. paprica ; 
92 



SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

B : li cs. hot stock, 1 c. chestnuts, boiled and mashed, 1 
tsp. tomato catsup. 

Oook A until smooth, add B, gradually, when boiling serve. 

No. 241. Chive Sauce. ^ cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 330 ; 

B : % tbsps. chives, minced fine. 

No. 242. Currant Jelly Sauce, for Game. 75 cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230 ; 

B : \ tsp. onion- juice, 4 tbsps. currant jelly, 4 tbsps. 

port wine. 

Cook A, add B, when boiling serve. 

No. 2^j. Curry Sauce, for Chicken or Eggs. 10 cts. 

A : White Sauce No. 229 ; 

B : 1 tsp. onion-juice, 1 tbsp. curry-powder, dissolved in 

a little water. 

Cook A, when boiling add B, stir thoroughly and serve. 

No. 244. Espagnole Sauce. 75 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tbsp. each chopped ham, onion, 
celery, carrot, and parsley, 3 tbsps. flour, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. 

Eaprica ; 
■ : 2 cs. veal-stock, \ bay-leaf, 2 cloves, blade mace. 

Cook A until brown, add B, simmer gently 2 hours. Strain 
and serve. 

No. 24^. HoUandaise Sauce for Fish, Meats, and 16 cts. 
Vegetables. 

A : i c. butter, creamed, add 4 egg-yolks, one by one ; 
B : 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne and 
nutmeg ; 
C : 1 c. boiling water. 

Cook A in double boiler, add B, stir until thick, add C, 
slowly, stir until creamy and serve. 

93 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 2^6. Horseradish Sauce, for Beef. 8 cts. 

A : 4 tbsps. grated horseradish, 4 tbsps. fine bread- 
crumbs, 1 tsp. powdered sugar, ^ tsp. salt, J tsp. made 
mustard, J tsp. paprica, % tbsps. vinegar ; 
B : ^ c. hot cream, or 1 c. white sauce. 

Mix A thoroughly, put in double boiler, add B, when boil- 
ing, serve. 

No. 2^y. Madeira Sauce. /j cis. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230, 1 tbsp. each of ham and celery, 
minced, J tsp. each Chili pepper and Kitchen Bouquet ; 
B : :J c. Madeira. 
Simmer A | an hour, strain, add B, mix and serve. If 
this is to be served with lamb chops, add thin slices of mar- 
row ; remove marrow from bones, soak 1 hour in salted water, 
cut in slices, and add to sauce with \ tsp. tarragon vinegar. 

No. 2^8. MaJtre d'Hotel Sauce. 8 cts. 

A : 4 tbsps. butter, creamed ; 

B : 3 tbsps. lemon-juice, 1 tbsp. chopped parsley, \ tsp, 

salt, dash pepper and cayenne. 

Mix B with A thoroughly and serve. 

No. 2^g. Mustard Sauce, for Beef. lo cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. hot butter, 2 tbsps. flour, cooked until brown 
and smooth, 1 c. beef-stock ; 

B : 1 tbsp. French mustard or celery mustard, 1 tbsp. 
vinegar, 1 tsp. sugar, 1 tsp. made mustard, \ tsp. salt, 
\ tsp. paprica. 

Cook A until smooth, add B, mix, and when boiling, serve. 

No. 2^o. Mushroom Sauce. 2^ cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230. Cook butter until brown be- 
fore adding flour; 

B : 1^ cs. canned mushrooms, or \ c. fresh mushrooms, cut 
into small pieces, rolled in flour, and sauted in butter ; 
94 



SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

C : 1 tbsp. mushroom catsup, 1 tbsp. Worcestershire 
sauce, 2 tbsps. sherry. 

Add B to A, cook 5 m., add 0, when boiling, serve. 

JVo. 2^1. Olive Sauce^ for Game or Poultry. 2j cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 330 and 1 tsp. minced onion 
B : 1 doz. stoned olives, boiled 10 m. 

Cook A, add B, when boiling, serve. 

No. 2^2. Onion or Soubise Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. hot butter and 2 tbsps. flour ; cook until 
smooth ; add, slowly, 1 c. hot stock, \ tsp. powdered 
sugar, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ c. cream ; 
B : 2 onions, sliced, and parboiled 5 m. 

Drain B, cover with boiling water, add \ tsp. salt, and boil 
until tender ; press through a colander, making 1 c. pulp and 
liquid. Add to A, when boiling, serve. 

No. 2^J. Orange Hollandaise Sauce. i8 cts. 

A : Hollandaise Sauce No. 245 ; 
B : Juice and rind from 1 orange. 

Omit lemon from A, add B, when boiling, serve. 

No. 2 £4. Orangfe Sauce, for Qizxaiu 20 cts. 

A : 1 orange-peel cut into thin strips, boil until tender, 
changing water once ; juice 2 oranges ; 
B : 2 tbsps. hot butter and 3 tbsps. flour, cook until 
smooth ; add, gradually, f c. stock, J tsp. made mustard, 
\ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ c. red wine, \ c. currant jelly. 

Cook B thoroughly, add A, when boiling, serve. 

No. 2^^. Pepper Sauce. 20 cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230 ; 

B : 1 tbsp. green pepper, 1 tbsp. chives, and 1 tsp. parsley, 

minced fine, 4 cloves, 6 pepper-corns, 2 tbsps. vinegar. 

Cook A, add B, simmer 15 m. Strain and serve. 

85 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



N^o. 2^6. Port Wine Sauce^ for Game. i6 cts. 

A : Brown Sauce No. 230, 1 tbsp. each Worcestershire 

sauce, mushroom catsup, \ c. port wine ; 

B : I an onion, 2 sprigs parsley, i bay-leaf, \ carrot. 

Cook A, add B, simmer 15 m. Strain and serve. 

No. 2^j. Sorrel Sauce, for Veal. 75 cts. 

A : J c. sorrel, chop fine, saute in 3 tbsps. butter, add 
\\ cs. hot water, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper and cayenne ; 
B : 3 egg-yolks beaten. 

Cook A 5 m., pour over B, stir until boiling, serve. 

No. 2^8. Supreme Sauce. ly cts. 

A : White Sauce No. 239, made of highly seasoned white 

stock, add \ c. hot cream and 1 tbsp. butter ; 

B : J c. white wine, or mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice. 

Cook A 15 m., add B, serve at once. 

No. 2§g. Tomato Sauce. 75 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 1 slice each onion and carrot, 
sprig parsley, saute, add 3 tbsps. flour, J tsp. salt, J tsp. 
paprica, \ bay-leaf, 2 cloves ; 
B : 1 c. stock, 1 c. tomato pulp, or tomatoes and juice. 

Cook A until slightly brown, add B, gradually, stir and 
simmer 15 m. Strain and serve. 

No. 260. Tomato Oeam Sauce. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. tomatoes, 1 sprig parsley, 1 stick celery, \ bay- 
leaf, 1 slice onion, 2 cloves, 3 peppercorns ; 
B : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour, \ tsp. salt, J tsp. 
paprica ; cook until smooth, add 1 c. hot cream, \ tsp. 
sugar, ^ tsp. soda ; simmer until boiling. 

Cook A 10 m., strain into B, stir and blend thoroughly. 

96 



SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 



No. 261. Tfoffled Mushroom Sauce. ^f2 cts. 

A : White Sauce No. 229 ; 

B : 1 jar Truffled Mushrooms (they may be bought in 
jars for 35 cts.) or 1 c. chopped mushrooms and 3 truffles 
cut in small pieces. 

Add B to A, simmer 10 m. and serve. 

No. 262. Veloute Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour, \ tsp. salt, dash 
cayenne, grating nutmeg, sprig parsley or thyme. 
B : 1 c, white stock, \ c. cream, or use less stock and add 
mushroom liquor. 

Cook A until smooth, add B, a little at a time, simmer 20 
m., stirring often, strain, return to sauce-pan and simmer 
1 hour, add more hot stock or cream to make it right con- 
sistency. 

No. 26J. Veloute Sauce, with Claret. 20 cts. 

A : Veloute Sauce No. 262, made with \ c. claret instead 

of cream ; 

B : 2 egg-yolks beaten. 

Make A, when boiling add to B, cook 1 m. and serve. 

No. 26^. Bread Dressings for Game. 6 cts. 

A : 1 c. milk, scalded with \ an onion, sprig parsley, 
blade of mace, ^ bay-leaf ; 

B : J c. fine bread-crumbs, 2 tbsps. butter, J tsp. salt, 
dash cayenne and paprica. 

Strain A, return to double boiler, add B, cook until thick. 
Serve 1 spoonful on breast of each bird, sprinkle with browned 
crumbs. 

No. 26§. Chestnut Dressing: or Stuffing:, for i£ cts. 
Turkey or Chicken. 

A : 1 c. chestnuts, boiled in salted boiling water 20 m., 
or until tender ; 

97 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tbsp. cream, J tsp. salt, dasb cayenne, 
grating nutmeg, | c. bread-crumbs, 3 tbsps. hot water. 

t)rain and mash A, add B. Mix and stuff turkey or 
chicken. 

No. 266. Potato Dressmgf, for Roast Duck or 10 cts. 

Goose. 

A : 2 cs. hot mashed potato, J c. cream, 1 tbsp. butter, 
\ tsp. each salt, paprica, and onion-juice, 1 tsp. parsley ; 
B : 2 egg-yolks, beaten, \ c. English walnut meats, 
chopped rather fine, \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet. 

Mix and beat A, add B, stir thoroughly and fill bird. 



COLD SAUCES 

No. 26'/. Horseradish Sauce. 10 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. grated horseradish, 1 tbsp. vinegar, \ tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne or \ tsp. paprica ; 
B : J c. cream, whipped very stifE. 

Mix A thoroughly, when ready to serve, add B carefully. 

No. 268. Horseradish Flour Sauce. 6 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. horseradish flour, soaked in J c. cold water \ 
an hour, 2 tbsps. vinegar, 1 tsp. sugar, ^ tsp. salt, J tsp. 
paprica, 2 tbsps. fine bread-crumbs ; 
B : 2 tbsps. cream. 

Mix A, when ready to serve, add B carefully. 

No. 26g. Vinaigrette Sauce. 10 cts. 

A : \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, dash white pepper, mixed 
with 3 tbsps. tarragon or plain vinegar ; 
B : 6 tbsps. oil, 1 tbsp. gherkins, and 1 tsp. each of 
chives and parsley, all minced fine, 1 tbsp. green pepper, 
minced, is an addition. 

98 



SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 



FRUIT RELISHES 

No. 2'/o. Apple-saoce. 6 cis. 

A : 6 sour apples, peel, core and quarter, add J tsp. salt, 

J c. water ; 

B : 3 tbsps. sugar, ^ tsp. cinnamon, grating nutmeg. 

Cover A and simmer without stirring until apples are soft, 
add B, mix and press through a colander. Serve hot or cold. 

No. 2yi. Apple Fritters, to serve with Meats. lo cts. 

A : 6 slices apple pared and cored ; 

B : 2 tbsps. powdered sugar, \ tsp. cinnamon, 1 tbsp. 

lemon-juice ; 

C : Batter No. 315. 

Cover A with B for \ an hour, dip in C, fry in hot fat. 

No. 2'j2. Apple-saocc Croquettes. 75 cts. 

A : 6 sour apples, peel, core, and quarter ; 
B : i c. sugar, juice and grated rind \ lemon, grating 
nutmeg, dash salt and cinnamon ; 

C : 1 tbsp. hot butter, and 1 tbsp. cornstarch, cooked un- 
til smooth ; 
D : 3 egg-yolks, slightly beaten. 

Steam A in double boiler until soft, mash, add B, simmer 
until very thick, add C, cook 2 m., add D, cook until quite 
thick, turn out on buttered dish to cool. When cold form 
into small balls, crumb, egg and crumb, fry in deep fat, drain, 
press in at the top of each, insert a clove to represent apple- 
stem. 

No. 27J. diet Apple-sauce. 20 cts, 

A : I peck pound-sweet apples ; 

B . 1 qt. fresh sweet cider, or 1 pt. boiled cider and 1 pt. 
cold water. 
Pare, core, and quarter A, cover with hot water, stew until 

99 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

tender, drain, add B and sugar if cider is not sweet enough, 
boil 20 m. Cool and keep in covered jars. 

No. 2"^^. Cranberry-sauce. 20 cts. 

A : 1 qt. cranberries, wash and cover with % qts. boiling 

water ; 

B : 3 cs. granulated sugar. 

Boil A 20 m., or until skins burst, add B, stir until dis- 
solved, turn into a glass dish, or press through a colander. 

No. 2j^. Cranberry Jelly Moulds. 20 cts. 

A : 1 qt. cranberries, wash and cover with 1 pt. boiling 

water ; 

B : 2 cs. hot sugar. 

Cook A until very soft, strain and add 1 scant c. B to each 
c. pulp, boil 5 m., strain into 6 tiny glass moulds. 

No. 2y6. Currant Jelly Forms. 10 cts. 

A : 1 c. currant jelly. 
Melt A and fill tiny liqueur or cordial glasses. When ready 
to serve, turn out on the plates with meat or game. 

No. 2^/. Currant Marmalade. 6^ cts. 

A : 3 lbs. currants pressed through a coarse sieve, 3 lbs. 
sugar, 1 lb. chopped and seeded raisins ; 
B : 2 oranges. 

Mix A, add grated yellow peel and juice and pulp of B, re- 
jecting seeds and white skin. Boil until it jellies. Turn into 
glass jars. 

No. 2^8. Egg-tomato Sweets. go cts. 

A : 7 lbs. egg-tomatoes, scald and peel ; 
B : 5 lbs. granulated sugar ; 
C : ^ c. weak vinegar, 1 tbsp. salt ; 
D : Whole spices to taste, allspice, cin- 
namon, ginger, cassia buds, cloves, and 
mace. 

100 




AUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

Cover A with vinegar and water, J of each, for 13 hours -, 
drain, put C in preserving kettle, add A in layers alternately 
with B and D. Simmer gently, stirring carefully until toma- 
toes are transparent ; remove them carefully, one at a time, 
boil syrup until thick, strain, add tomatoes, and when boil- 
ing, pour into cans and seal. This will fill 6 pint cans. 
Serve with meat course. 

No. 2yg. Oi-angfe Marmalade. ^^ cts. 

A : 6 large oranges, 3 lemons, scrub thoroughly, cut in 

thin slices, reject end pieces, put seeds in a bowl with 1 c. 

cold water ; 

B : 3J pts. cold water ; 

C : 4 lbs. granulated sugar. 

Cover A with B, and soak both fruit and seeds 36 hours ; 
drain water from seeds into the fruit. Simmer slowly 2 
hours, add C, cook 1 hour or until mixture jellies ; stir occa- 
sionally during last hour's cooking. Fill glass jars or tum- 
blers, cover and keep in a cool place. This may be made 
with honey instead of sugar, and 2 cs. shredded almonds may 
be added. 

No. 280. Rice Croqaettes en Surprise. 75 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold boiled rice, 1 tbsp. butter or cream, 1 tsp. 
sugar, i tsp. salt, grating nutmeg ; 
B : 6 tbsps. jelly or jam. 

Mix A, when cold, spread them thin in your hand, fill with 
B, press and fold together, form into croquettes, (See Cro- 
quettes.) 



101 




Meats, roasts, or poultry, if served from the side, 
should be neatly carved in the butler' s pantry and 
placed on the largest-sized dinner-plate, which should 
be very hot. One or two vegetables usually accom- 
pany the roast ; if two, one is of potatoes. A fruit rel- 
ish is often served with the piece de resistance, and 
sometimes Bouchees Savory are served instead of po- 
tatoes. These should be passed to the guests from the 
left, unless they are already put on the plates. If a 
vegetable requires small dishes or plates, place them 
at the left of each cover, but it is considered much 
better form to serve vegetables dry enough to be put 
on the plates with the roast. To remove this course, 
if carved on the table, first place the carving knife and 
fork carefully on the platter, side by side if the 
carver has neglected to do this ; remove the platter, 
then all the plates or dishes belonging to the course 
from each cover. See that goblets are filled, not too 
full. Pass bread, if it is needed, and serve cham- 
pagne. Notice if guests prefer other wine, and keep 
the glasses filled until after dessert is served. 

To serve champagne, cut the wires and draw the 
cork carefully ; have a napkin wrapped around the 
neck of the bottle, and, as soon as the cork is drawn, 

102 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 



pour a very little into the glass of the host to 
giving a guest any particles of cork ; then begin 
right of the host, fill the glasses slowly 
and not too full. Champagne is some- 
times served from a glass pitcher. In 
that case it is not necessary first to pour 
any in the glass of the host. Do not 
serve ice with champagne or with any 
wine, but champagne must be kept on 
ice for several hours before it 
is used, and should be poured 
the instant it is opened. The 
napkin around the bottle is to 
protect the wine from the heat 
of the hands and to protect the 
table-cloth from drops. 



avoid 
at the 





WHAT TO SERVE WITH MEATS AND POULTRY 

(All references to recipes In this book are in capitals.) 

Beef ; Serve white or sweet potatoes, mnslirooms, cooked 
bananas, croquettes of hominy, farina, rice, macaroni, or to- 
matoes, and any of the following sances : Brown, Mustard, 
Mushroom, Tomato or Truffled Mushroom Sauce, and Apple 
Fritters, Apple Croquettes, Currant Jelly Forms or Egg- 
tomato Sweets. 

At the informal dinner any of tiie following vegetables may 
be served with beef : cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, beets, 
spinach, vegetable oyster, tomatoes, squash, turnips, green 
corn, egg-plant, peas or beans. 

Ham or Porfc: Serve white or sweet potatoes, spinach, 
beets, beet-greens, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower or hot or cold 

103 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cabbage, and any of the following saaces : Champagne for 
ham. Chive or Pepper-sance and Apple-sauce, Fritters or Cro- 
quettes or Cider Apple-sauce. 

Lamb or Mutton: Serve white or sweet potatoes, cro- 
quettes of farina or rice. Tomato Croquettes, Green Pea 
Puree, celery or cucumbers cooked, asparagus- tips. Green Peas 
in Croustades, or creamed spinach, and any of the following 
sauces : Champagne, Madeira, Mushroom, Onion, Tomato, 
Tomato Cream, or Veloute Sauce, and Currant or Orange 
Marmalade, Egg-tomato Sweets or fruit jellies. Squash, tur- 
nips, asparagus, parsnips, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower or egg- 
plant may be served with lamb and mutton, if not served as a 
separate course. 

Veal: Serve white or sweet potatoes, creamed spinach, 
Beets in Sour Sauce, peas, beans, parsnip croquettes, cauli- 
flower au gratin, and any of the following sauces : Cream, 
Brown, Chive, HoUandaise, Madeira, Mushroom, Onion, 
Sorrel or Tomato. 

Poultry : Serve white or sweet potatoes, croquettes of rice, 
hominy or tomato, cooked cucumbers or celery, mushrooms. 
Pea or Chestnut Pur6e, rice, curry or beans, haricot verts or 
plain beans, and any of the following sauces : "White, Becha- 
mel, Chestnut, Curry, Madeira, Mushroom, Olive, Onion, 
Tomato, Tomato Cream, Veloute or Veloute Sauce with 
Claret, and Apple Croquettes or Fritters, Egg-tomato Sweets 
or Cranberry Moulds or sauce. With capon serve Cucumbers 
Stewed. 

With chicken serve oysters, mushrooms, or chestnuts. 

With duck serve Onion Souf&e or boiled onions. 

With turkey serve chestnuts, oysters, truffles, or sausages. 

If meat or poultry is served with a sauce, then the accom- 
panying vegetables should be dry. Do not serve two sauces 
at the same time. 

104 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 



MEATS 



No. 281. Beef a la Mode. J2 cts. 

A ; 5 lbs. round of beef, larded ; 

B : J lb. pork in slices, % onions, 1 carrot, 4 cloves, and 

2 pepper-corns, bit bay-leaf ; 

C : 3 pts. boiling water ; 

D : 1 tsp. salt and dash pepper. 
Cook B 15 m., add A, searing it on all sides quickly, then 
cook \ an hour, cover with C and simmer 3 or 4 hours, or 
until tender, adding more water when necessary, add D 1 
hour before it is done. Put meat on hot platter ; strain liquor, 
skim off the grease, serve in a boat. "When sent back from 
the table put meat into a bowl, cover with the liquor, and 
when cold serve out in slices on a bed of water-cress. 

No. 282. Beef FiUet, Baked. $i.yo. 

A : 5 lbs. tenderloin beef, larded, spread with 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, dust lightly with salt, pepper and flour ; 
B : 3 slices salt pork, 1 tbsp. each onion, carrot, turnip, 
celery and parsley, minced, 1 tsp. salt, \ bay-leaf, 2 
cloves, 3 pepper-corns, \ c. water, stock, or white wine ; 
C : Mushroom Sauce No. 250. 
Put B in bottom of roasting-pan, use a covered roaster with 
a rack, place A on rack to sear over quickly, then cover and 
bake \ an hour in very hot oven, basting often ; 3 bananas, 
peeled, cut in long, thin pieces, may be put on meat \ of an 
hour before it is done ; serve 1 piece on each slice of meat, place 
fillet on hot dish, cut into \ inch slices. Strain liquor from 
pan into C, adding enough pan liquor to make 2 cs. Pour 
around fillet and serve, or omit C, strain liquor over meat, and 
serve with broiled mushrooms and Horseradish Sauce No. 246. 

No. 283. Beef Fillets or Migfnons, Broiled, Sauted, 82 cts. 
or Deviled. 

A : 6 fillets of tenderloin, 1 inch thick. Mignons are f 
of an inch thick, trimmed and rolled into circles ; 
105 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : I tsp. salt, dash pepper and nutmeg ; 

C : 1 tbsp. English mustard, 2 tbsps. Worcestershire 

sauce, and ^ tsp. Chili pepper ; 

D : J c. bread-crumbs. 

Broil A on greased broiler 5 m., or saute in butter, then add 
B, finish cooking and serve with Madeira Sauce No. 247, or 
spread with Bearnaise Sauce 'No. 333, or coyer with 0, roll 
in D, finish broiling and serve with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce 
No. 348. 

JVo. 284. Beef Steaks Broiled with Mushfooms 60 cts. 
Of Oysters. 

A : 3 short steaks without tenderloin, \\ inches thick, 
these are called Club steaks ; or a steak with tenderloin, 
2 to 3 inches thick, bone removed and rolled into a 
circle ; this is called a Chateaubriand, after a famous 
French epicure ; 

B : Mushrooms Broiled No. 344, or Sauce Bearnaise No. 
333, or cover with ; 

C : 1 pt. large oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
1 tbsp. butter cut into bits ; 
' D : 1 tbsp. butter, salt and pepper. 

Put A on greased broiler close to hot coals, sear over 
quickly on both sides, broil 10 m., turning constantly. Place 
on warm dish, spread with D on both sides and cover with B, 
serve at once, or omit D and cover with C. Put in very hot 
oven until oysters are cooked. 

No. 28^. Beef Steak Fairci, Baked. 40 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. sirloin steak, \. inch thick ; 

B : 1 c. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. parsley 

and \ tbsp. onion, minced, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper and 

cayenne, \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet, moisten with stock ; 

C : J c. stock ; 

D : Brown Sauce No. 330 and 1 tbsp. Worcestershire 

sauce. 

Mix B thoroughly, spread over A, roll and skewer or tie 
with string, put on rack in roasting-pan, add C, bake \ an 

106 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 

hour, basting often. Place on hot dish, remove string, cover 
with D and serve cut in slices. 

No. 286. Ham Supreme^ Boiled. Si-75- 

A : 8 lb. pig ham ; 

B : 1 onion, 1 carrot, 6 cloves, 6 pepper-corns, and 1 bay- 
leaf ; 

C : 1 pt. white wine, cider, champagne, or acidulated 
water. 

Clean A with brush and borax water, soak over night, put 
B in kettle, add A, cover with cold water and simmer 4 hours, 
then add C and cook until tender, remove A, trim and brush 
with Glaze No. 236, reduce liquor to 1 pt., strain, cool, and 
remove fat, reheat, add to 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour 
browned together and serve in a boat. 

Ham Supreme, Baked« 

A : I c. liquor from ham, \ c. sherry or Madeira ; 

B : 1 tbsp. brown sugar, 3 tbsps. sherry, mixed. 
Boil only 3 hours, omitting cider or champagne, remove 
skin, place on rack in baking-pan, baste with A, bake 3 or 3 
hours, cover with B, brown in the oven and serve. Liquor 
from pan may be strained, cooled, fat removed, reheated and 
served in a boat. 

No. 28y. Lamb Chops, Breaded and Fried. 55 cts. 

A : 6 large French chops ; 

B : 3 tbsps. melted butter, J tsp. salt, dash paprica or 
cayenne ; 

C : 3 tbsps. hot butter, \ an onion, sliced, and 4 tbsps. 
flour, brown slightly, add 1 c. hot milk or stock, J tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, boil and cool ; 
D : 1 c. bread-crumbs soaked in \ c. hot milk, 1 tbsp. 
tongue or ham chopped fine, 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, \ 
tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica or dash cayenne, and 1 egg, mix 
and cool. 
Broil A 5 m., dip in B, when cool cover with or D, when 

107 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

very cold crumb, egg and crumb and plunge in hot fat, or 
omit C and D, crumb and fry. Serve around a Pur^e of Green 
Peas No. 336. 

No. 288. Lamb Oiops, with Champagne Sauce ^5 cts. 

A : 6 large French chops ; 

B : Champagne Sauce No. 238. 

Trim and flatten A, dust with salt and pepper, egg and 
crumb and saut^ in 2 tbsps. butter, put paper frills on 
ends, arrange around B in centre of dish. 

I\fo. 28g. Lamb Chops Soubise, Broiled. 55 cts. 

A : 6 large French chops ; 

B : 2 tbsps. melted butter, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper and 

\ c. fine bread-crumbs ; 

C : Onion or Soubise Sauce No. 252. 

Flatten A, dip in B, broil 10 m., turning often, serve 
with C. 

No. 2 go. Lamb Chops Supreme, Broiled or Sauted. $1.00. 

A : 6 thick French chops ; 

B : 6 slices of truffle, or 3 truffles chopped, or 2 tbsps. 
butter browned with 1 of flour, and \ c. chopped mush- 
rooms, \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet, \ tsp. parsley, minced, 
dash cayenne and nutmeg, enough stock or cream to 
moisten, when boiling remove from fire and cool ; 
C : 6 pieces toast, spread with p4te de foie gras ; 
D : Madeira Sauce No. 247. 

Slit A to bone, spread with B, fasten together with wooden 
toothpicks, egg and crumb and saut6 in butter 5 m. on each 
side, arrange on 0, and pour over D and serve. 

No. 2gi. Lamb Fillets au Parmesan, Broiled. ^5 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. lamb cutlets cut into 6 fillets ; 

B : 2 tbsps. fine crumbs, 2 tbsps. Parmesan cheese. 

Dip A in melted butter, dust with salt and pepper, roll in 
B and broil 10 m., turning often. 

108 



>- 




PIECE DE RESISTANCE 

No. 2g2. Lamb Qown. $1.20. 

A : 13 nncut chops arranged in circle ; this will take two 

loins, have butcher chop through bones only ; 

B : Pnr^e of Chestnuts JSTo. 337, or Peas No. 336 ; 

C : J c. mint, minced fine, J c. hot vinegar, 1 tbsp. 

sugar. 

Do not cut chops 
apart. Trim bones, 
tie in circle, meat 
inside and bones 
standing up. Cover 
bones with pieces 
of salt pork. Dust 
with salt and pep- 
per, and bake about 
an hour or more, basting often with stock or hot water ; re- 
move string and pork and serve with centre filled with B, and 
C in a boat. 

No. 2gj. Lamb Leg with Mushroom Farci, Si-2§. 

Roasted. 

A : Leg of lamb with bone removed, or have butcher roll 
fore-quarter, exposing ribs and forming a pocket ; 
B : 1 c. mushrooms, chop and saute in butter, J c. bread- 
crumbs, 3 tbsps. butter, lamb kidney, chopped fine, J tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne, 1 beaten egg and 1 tbsp. sherry. 

Stuff A with B, roast li hours, serve with gravy made in 
pan and ^ c. mushroom caps ; use stems for stuflBng, serve 
with C in No. 293. 

No. 2g^ Littk Pig:, Baked or Roasted. $3.00. 

A : 4 weeks' old little pig ; 

B : 3 cs. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. each butter, onion, and 
parsley, \ tsp. each salt, sage, thyme, and summer sav- 
ory, juice and grated peel of 1 lemon j 
: J c. white wine. 

109 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Clean and scald A, cut gashes in thighs and shoulders. 
Add enough hot water to B to soften, stuff A, both gashes 
and inside. Put it on rack in roasting-pan, dust with salt, 
pepper, and flour, place an apple in its mouth, add C to pan, 
bake in very hot oven 2 or 3 hours, basting often. When 
done, put piggie on a platter, strain liquor from pan, skim 
off the fat, add 2 tbsps. browned flour, and serve in a boat. 
Serve with Apple Sauce No. 270. 

No. 2g§. Matton Chops, Baked or Fried. ^o cts. 

A : 6 mutton chops, f inch thick, well trimmed, saut6 in 
1 tbsp. butter 5 m., add dash salt and pepper ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, brown with 1 tbsp. minced onion and 
4 tbsps. flour ; add § tsp. salt, dash papriea and nutmeg, 
1 c. cream or milk. Boil and cool. 

Cool A, cover with B, crumb, egg and crumb and plunge 
in hot fat, or sprinkle with bits of butter, and bake until 
brown. Serve with Chestnut Pur^e No. 327. 

No. 2g6. Mutton Fillet Supreme, Roasted. $i.oo. 

A : 5-lb. leg of mutton, hung 2 or 3 weeks ; 
B : 1 onion and 1 lemon ; 

C : \ tsp. salt, J tsp. papriea, \ c. currant jelly ; 
D : I c. sherry. 

Have butcher skin and remove bone from A ; when ready 
to cook, rub it all over with B, squeeze juice of lemon over 
top, add C, and bake in hot oven 1| hours, basting constantly. 
Place on hot dish, strain liquor from pan over it, add D, and 
serve cut in slices like a fillet of beef. 

No. 2gy. Mutton Saddle, Baked or Roasted. $l.45- 

A : Medium saddle of mutton ; 

B : 1 tsp. salt, dash pepper, and 1 tbsp. flour. 

Have butcher dress A by removing skin, cutting the suet 
in decorations, and rounding into shape ; the backbone may 
also be removed. Dust with B and bake about 1 hour, carve 

110 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 

in strips parallel to backbone and serve with Currant Jelly 
Forms No. 276. 

No. 2g8. Mutton Leg, Stuffed. $i.oo. 

A : Leg of mutton, skinned and bone removed ; 
B : 1 c. crumbs, 2 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. chopped al- 
monds, \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. parsley, % drops Tabasco sauce ; 
C : 1 onion, sliced, 1 carrot, cut into dice, 1 tomato, 
sliced, 2 tbsps. celery, diced, 3 sprigs parsley ; 
D : 3 cs. boiling water ; 
E : 1 tbsp. browned flour. 

Stuff A with B, put in roaster over C, pour over D, cover 
and cook 2 hours. Kemove cover, dust with bits of butter, 
flour, salt, and pepper, and brown. Place on hot dish, add 
E to liquor in pan ; when boiling, strain and serve in a boat. 

No. 2gg. Veal Cutlet, Broiled. ^5 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. veal from leg, | inch thick ; 

B : 2 tbsps. olive oil, 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, J tsp. salt, 

dash pepper ; 

C : Juice of 1 orange, and bits of butter or Sorrel Sauce 

No. 257. 

Marinate A in B 1 hour, broil, sprinkle with C, and serve. 

No. JOO. Veal Fillets with Cream or Brown 5^ cts. 
Sauce, Sauted. 

A : 2 lbs. cutlet cut into 6 fillets ; 

B : 1 tbsp. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour ; cook until smooth, 
add 1\ cs. hot cream, 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, J tsp. salt, 
dash pepper and nutmeg, or Brown Sauce No. 230, and 
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce and \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet. 

Pound A until tender, egg and crumb and saut6 in butter 

or salt pork until light brown on both sides. Place on hot 

dish, add B to the pan ; when boiling, strain over the fillets 

and serve. 

lU 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. JOI. Veal ot Lamb Roll. $i.oo. 

A : Shoulder of veal or lamb, bone removed and inside 

brushed with 1 tbsp. melted butter mixed with ^ tsp. 

thyme, \ tsp. sweet marjoram, or 1 tsp. each parsley and 

onion minced ; 

B : 1 onion and 1 carrot, sliced, 1 bay-leaf and sprig of 

parsley ; 

C : 3 slices of pork or bacon, salt, pepper, and flour. 

Roll A and tie with string, cover bone with cold water, add 
B ; when boiling, add A and simmer until tender, put the 
meat in pan, cover with C, add 1 c. of the meat liquor, bake 
\ an hour, basting often. Place on hot dish, add 2 tbsps. 
browned flour to pan ; when boiling, strain over meat and cut 
in slices. 



POULTRY. 

No. J02. Capotv Baked or Roasted. $i.^0. 

Follow recipe for Turkey with Truffle Sauce No. 314, using 
1 large capon instead of the turkey. Roast about % hours. 
Capon may be much improved by boning. For this process 
see recipe for Boned Turkey, page 168, " The National Cook 
Book," or take a lesson in boning birds at some good cook- 
ing-school. 

No. ^oj. Chicken, with Chestnut Pur&, gs cts. 

Baked or Roasted. 

A : 2 young chickens, about 4 lbs. ; stufE with Chestnut 

Dressing No. 265 ; 

B : 2 cs. hot stock or water, 2 cloves, 3 pepper-corns, ^ 

tsp. salt, sprig parsley ; 

C : 1 tbsp. hot butter, brown with 2 of flour, add IJ cs. 

liquor from pan ; 

D : Chestnut Puree No. 327. 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 

Lard breasts of A, cover with B and simmer 15 m., place 
in baking-dish, dredge with flour and bake in hot oven 1| 
hours, basting often. Place in hot dish, pour over C, stir- 
ronnd with D, and serve. 

No. jo^f. Chicken and Ham, Baked or Roasted. $1.20. 

A : 3 young chickens, about 4 lbs. ; 
B : \Va. ham, cut in very thin slices ; 
C : 1 tbsp. butter, brown with 2 of flour, add \\ cs. 
liquor from pan, or stock, boil, and add \ c. fresh mush- 
rooms. Boil until mushrooms are tender. 

StuflE A with bread dressing containing parsley and onions, 
cover breasts with B, tie on with string, put in baking-pan 
with \ 0. boiling water and roast slowly until tender enough to 
put fork through ham into chicken, remove ham, put chicken 
on hot dish, surround with the ham, pour over C and serve. 

No. SO^. Chicken with Oyster Sauce, Baked or $l.l§. 

Roasted. 

A : 2 young chickens, about 4 lbs., stuff with Oyster 

Dressing No. 151 ; 

B : \ tsp. salt, dash pepper, 1 tbsp. flour, and \ c. hot 

oyster-liquor or water ; 

C : Oyster Sauce No. 150. 

Put A in a pan, cover with B, bake IJ hours and serve with 
0. For boning chicken see Eecipe No. 303. 

No. J06. Chicken Espagfnole, Fricasseed. 80 cts. 

A : 3 lbs. chicken, cut into small pieces, or it may be 

left whole, saute in 3 tbsps. butter until light brown, 

cover with 3 pts. boiling water, add \ tsp. salt ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter or lard, brown with 1 onion, sliced, 

add 2 green peppers, J a red pepper, and 3 large ripe 

tomatoes, sliced ; 

C : 1 0. uncooked rice, 1 pt. stock or gravy from 

chicken. 

113 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Boil A until tender, keep hot while cooking B, cook B 5 
m., add C, cook until rice is tender, adding more stock from 
chicken when necessary, when done make a bed of rice and 
vegetables, cover with the chicken, then with remaining stock 
and serve, or omit peppers, tomatoes, and rice and serve in a 
casserole surrounded with cooked carrots, onions, peas, mush- 
rooms, turnips, and truffles all cut in dice. 



No. joy. Chicken Fillets and Mushrooms, 70 cts. 

Fricasseed. 

A : 3 lbs. chicken, cut into small pieces, saute in % tbsps. 

butter until light brown, cover with 3 pts. boiling water, 

\ tsp. salt and small piece of red pepper ; 

B : 1 tbsp. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour, brown and add 1 c. 

cream ; 

C : 1 c. fresh mushrooms cut into small pieces, or use 

dry mushrooms soaked until soft ; 

D : 1 egg-yolk slightly beaten. 

Cook A 2 or 3 hours, add B, simmer 5 m., then add 0, 
cook until tender, place chicken on hot dish, add D to sauce, 
pour over chicken and serve. 



No. S08. Chicken Fillets, Fried or Saated. $1.0$. 

A : 2 young chickens, about 4 lbs., cut into fillets, use 
only white meat and second joints, marinate J an hour 
in oil, lemon, and onion-juice, dust with salt, pepper, roll 
in flour and saut§ in butter, oil, lard, or salt pork slowly 
about f of an hour, or fry in deep fat until light brown ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter or fat from pan, cook with 2 tbsps. 
flour until smooth, add J tsp. each salt and paprica, dash 
pepper and nutmeg, 1 tsp. chopped parsley and 1| cs. 
cream. 

Place A on hot dish, cook B until boiling, pour over 
chicken and serve with slices of fried hominy. 

114 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 



No. 30g. Chicken Fillets Supreme, Sauted. $i.j^. 

A : 3 raw, very young chicken breasts, cut into 6 fillets ; 
B ; 2 truffles, cut in slices or chopped ; 
C : Madeira Sauce No. 247, or Truffled Mushroom Sauce 
No. 261. 

Cut 2 or 3 gashes in each fillet, insert B, dust with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg, egg and crumb and saut6 in butter or 
oil until light brown, place on hot dish and pour over 0, 
made with stock from remainder of chicken. 

No. J 10. Chicken Fillets with Truffle Sauce, $i.oo. 
Sauted or Fried. 

A : 6 fillets of chicken dusted with salt, pepper, paprica, 
and flour, saut6 in butter, or egg, crumb, and fry in 
hot fat ; 
B : Bechamel Sauce No. 233 and 4 or 5 truffles, sliced. 

Cook A until thoroughly done, place on hot dish, add B 
to saut6-pan, cook 20 m., add \ c. hot cream, pour over fillets 
and serve. 

No. Jil. Duck with Olive Sauce, Baked or $i.io. 

Roasted. 

A : 2 young ducks, about 5 lbs., dust with salt, pepper 
and paprica and 2 tbsps. butter in bits, or cover with 
thin sliced ham or salt pork ; 
B : Olive Sauce No. 251. 

Put A in baking-pan with \ c. water and bake | of an hour, 
or until tender, basting often, place on hot dish, pour over 
B and serve with Onion Souffle No. 351. 

No. J 1 2. Duck Fillets, Sauted. $i.oo. 

A : 2 young ducks, cut into small pieces, dust with salt 
and pepper, roll in flour, saute in oil or butter slowly 
until brown ; 

B : 2 tbsps. flour, 1 c. stock. 
115 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Place A on hot dish, add B to pan, simmer J hour, pour 
around fillets and serve. 

No. J I J. Goose with Sauerkraut, Baked or $i.oo. 

Roasted. 

A : 1 goose, about 6 lbs. ; 

B : 2 cs. sauerkraut ; 

C : 1 c. hot water, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. mustard, 1 tsp. 

vinegar, grating of nutmeg. 

Parboil A 1 hour, stuff with B, put in baking-pan with \ 
c. hot water, bake 1 hour, place on hot dish, add C to liquor 
in pan, simmer 10 m., strain and serve with goose. Serve 
also Cider Apple Sauce No. 273. 

No. J14. Turkey with Truffle Sauce, Baked $1,^0. 
or Roasted. 

A : 1 young turkey, about 8 lbs., lard breast with truffles 

cut in slices ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, brown with 1 tbsp. minced onion, 

add 2 cs. bread-crumbs soaked in stock, turkey-liver 

and heart chopped fine, \ tsp. each salt, paprica, thyme, 

sage, sweet marjoram, and 1 tsp. parsley ; 

C : 2 tbsps. butter, cut into bits, pepper and salt, 1 c. hot 

water, J c. white wine or champagne ; 

D : 3 tbsps. browned flour, 4 truffles, chopped fine. 

Stuff A with B, steam 1 hour, place in covered roaster, 
sprinkle with C, bake an hour, basting often, remove cover 
and cook until brown, place on hot dish, skim fat from 
liquor in pan, add it to D, when boiling, serve with the 
turkey. For boning turkey see Recipe No. 302. 



116 




At dinners and luncheons any of the following 
vegetables are usually served as entrees between 
the meat or heavy course and the sherbet or game : 
artichokes, the French varietj'^, asparagus, Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, cooked celery or cucumber, 
egg-plant, stuflfed, green corn, green peppers, stuffed, 
mushrooms, string beans, and tomatoes, stuffed. All 
of the other vegetables are served with fish, meat, 
or poultry courses. Serve a vegetable entree in the 
same manner as a meat entree. Serve burgundy, 
claret, or champagne with this course. 

Methods. 

Cook all vegetables to be boiled in salted boiling water, 
after washing thoroughly, the green ones uncovered, until 
tender, drain at once and add seasonings. 



No. ji£. Batter. 6 cts. 

To cover boiled vegetables which are to be fried in deep, 
hot fat or saut6d in butter : 

A : J c. milk, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 c. flour, \ tsp. 

salt, 3 eggs, slightly beaten, mix thoroughly. 

Drain vegetables, dip in A and fry or saut§. 
117 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. Jl6. Articliofccs with Butter Sauce, Boiled. ^5 cts. 

A : 3 large fresh French artichokes ; 
B : Batter Sauce No. 234. 

Eemove stalks from A, boil \ an hour, cut them in two, 
serve | to each person with 1 tbsp. B on each plate. To eat 
them, remove each leaf with the fingers, dip the base of the 
leaf in the sauce and bite off the little succulent bit at the 
base ; then with the fork, scrape away all the furze, leaving 
the fond or bottom of the artichoke, which is most delicious 
and may be eaten with the fork. The French artichokes from 
California are better and fresher than those from France. 

No. jiy. Artichoke Fonds, Fried. $1.60. 

A : 6 French artichoke fonds, marinated \ an hour in 
French Dressing N^o. 436. 
B : Batter No. 315. 

Drain A, dip in B, fry in hot fat, drain and serve at once. 
Artichoke fonds are the succulent parts remaining after the 
leaves and furze are removed. If fresh ones are not in mar- 
ket, they may be bought in glass jars for 60 cents. 

No. J18. Asparagus, Boiled. jo cis. 

A : 3 small bunches or 1 large bunch asparagus ; 

B : Vinaigrette Sauce No. 369, or White Sauce No. 329, 

using \ c. asparagus-liquor with milk or stock and 1 tsp. 

lemon-juice. 

Immerse A in boiling salted water, leaving two inches of 
tip out of water, boil 30 m., drain and serve with B poured 
over. 

No. Jig. Asparagus in Rolls. 22 cts. 

A : 2 cs. boiled asparagus- tips ; 

B : White Sauce No. 229, using \ asparagus-liquor and \ 

cream instead of milk or stock ; 

C : 6 small French rolls or pop overs. 

Cut tops from C, spread the inside with butter and brown 

118 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

in the oven. Mix A with B, when boiling fill rolls and serve 
at once. 

1 c. green peas may be added to the asparagus, and 1 egg- 
yolk mixed with cream will make it a richer dish. 

No. ^20. Brussels Sprouts with Madeira Sauce. 52 cts. 

A : 1 qt. Brussels sprouts, washed thoroughly ; 
B : Madeira Sauce No. 347. 

Boil A 10 m., or until tender, drain and serve with B 
poured over. 

No. J2I. Beets with Sour Sauce. /j cts. 

A : 6 young beets boiled until tender, drain and cover 
with cold water ; 

B : :J c. sugar, 4 tbsps. corn-starch, \ c. vinegar, \ c. 
boiling water. 

Remove skins from A, cut in thin slices. Mix B, and when 
boiling pour over A and serve hot or cold. 

No. 322. Cabbage au Gratin, i^ cts. 

A : 1 head cabbage, boil until tender and chop fine ; 
B : White Sauce No. 229 and 1 tsp. lemon-juice ; 
C : 2 tbsps. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. butter in bits and 2 
tbsps. grated cheese. 

Put a layer of A in deep buttered dish, spread a layer of B, 
repeat until dish is full, cover with and brown in quick 
oven. Cabbage should be soaked in cold salted water an hour 
before boiling. 

No. J2J. Girrots with White Sauce, or Glazed, i^ cts. 

A : 13 small French carrots, boil, drain, and cut in 

slices, saute slightly in butter ; 

B : White Sauce No. 329, cooked with a blade of mace, 

and 1 c. green peas, or 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. sugar, J tsp. salt, \ c. stock. 

Cover A with B and serve ; or put A in baking-pan, cover 

119 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

with 0, and bake until stock is reduced to glaze and the car- 
rots are browned. 

No. J2^. Cauliflower au Parmesan. 20 cts. 

Follow Eecipe No. 322, using 1 cauliflower instead of cab- 
bage, and Parmesan cheese instead of plain cheese. 

No. 32^. Celery, Fried or Stewed. 20 cts. 

A : 3 bunches of celery sticks, 4 inches long, boil in salted 
water ; 

B : Butter Sauce No. 234, or White Sauce No. 229, add- 
ing \ c. water in which celery was boiled, or Brown 
Sauce No. 330 ; 
C : Batter No. 315 ; 
D : HoUandaise Sauce No. 245. 

Drain A, cover with B and serve, or dip A in C, fry in hot 
fat, drain and serve with D. 

No. J26. Chestnat Boulettes. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. mashed chestnuts, 2 egg-yolks, beaten slightly, 
2 tbsps. cream, 1 tbsp. sugar, J tsp. salt, 1 tsp. sherry or 
vanilla ; 
B : Egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Cool A and fold in B, form into small balls, crumb, egg 
and crumb and fry in hot fat. 

No. J2'/. Chestnut Puree. 20 cts. 

A : 1 qt. chestnuts, shell, blanch and boil until soft ; 
B : 2 tbsps. cream, 2 tbsps. butter, \ tsp. each salt, pap- 
rica, and onion- juice. 

Press A through a colander, add B, mix thoroughly, press 
through a potato-ricer and serve. 

No. ^28. Cucumber FarcJ. ^2 cts. 

A : 3 medium cucumbers, peel, cut in two lengthwise ; 
B : 1 c. cooked chicken, 1 tbsp. parsley, 1 tbsp. cooked 
120 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

ham, all minced ; 2 tbsps. cream, J tsp. each salt, pap- 

rica and onion-jnice ; 

C : 1 c. stock, I c. white wine or lemon-juice. 

Scoop out the inside of A, fill with B, put in baking-pan, 
cover with 0, bake J an hour, basting often ; cover with 
browned crumbs and serve with sauce from pan poured over. 

N^o. J2g. Cucumbers^ Fried or Sauted. 2^ cts. 

A : 3 cucumbers, peel and cut lengthwise in J-inch slices, 
dust with salt and pepper, roll in flour or cornmeal. 

Saute A in butter, or egg, crumb and fry in hot fat. 

No. 330. Cucumbers^ Stewed. 24. cts. 

A : 3 cucumbers, parboil 2 m., drain and cover with ice- 
water ; 
B : Bechamel Sauce No. 233. 

Drain A, cut in slices, cover with B, and cook until tender. 

No. 331. Cucumter Timbales. 30 cts. 

A : 1 c. boiled cucumber-pulp, \ c. bread-crumbs ; 
B : i c. of White Sauce No. 229 and 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 
\ tsp. onion- juice, 2 egg-yolks, beaten ; 
C : Whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

Cook B, remove from fire, add A, then C ; fill 6 timbale- 

moulds (see Timbales). 

No. 332. Egg-PIant FarcL 55 ^^J. 

A : 3 very small egg-plants, boiled 20 m.; 

B : ^ c. bread-crumbs, soaked in \ c. stock, add h c. cooked 

chicken, veal, or lamb chopped fine, 1 tbsp. butter, J tsp. 

salt, dash pepper and nutmeg, and 1 beaten egg, or use 

the pulp instead of meat ; 

C : 1 c. stock, i 0. white wine ; 

I) : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked until smooth, 

add 1 c. liquor from pan, 1 tbsp. sherry. 

Cut A in two, lengthwise, scoop out inside, leaving shell \ 

121 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

inch thick, fill with B, pnt in pan, add 0, bake 1 hour, 
ing often. Cover with buttered crumbs, ^ c. crumbs browned 
in 1 tbsp. butter ; place on hot dish, pour D around, and 
serve. 

^^- 333- Green Com, Creamed. 20 cts. 

A : 6 ears of corn, score and scrape from ear with back 
of knife, or use 1 can corn, \ c. crumbs ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. sugar, \ c. rich milk, \ tsp. 
salt, dash pepper, 1 beaten egg. 

Add B to A, fill 6 coquille or ramekin dishes, crumb and 
bake 20 m. 

No. S34' Green Corn Fritters. 75 cts, 

A : 3 cs. green corn scraped from the cob ; 
B : 3 egg-yolks, beaten, J tsp. salt, dash pepper ; 
C : ^ tsp. baking-powder, sifted with ^ c. flour, egg-whites 
beaten stiff, and enough milk to make soft batter. 
Add A to B, mix, and add C ; drop by spoonful into very 
hot fat, drain and serve at once. 

^(^- 335- Green Peas in Croustades. ^o cts. 

A : 1 qt. fresh peas or 1 can peas ; boil with 1 sprig 

mint; 

B : 1 c. milk, 1 tbsp. butter, J tsp. salt, dash pepper, 

and 3 egg-yolks, beaten. 

Drain A, mix B, add to A, and when boiling fill 6 Bread 
Croustades No. 333, and serve ; \ c. carrots, cut in dice and 
sauted in butter, may be added to A, with a few drops of 
lemon -juice. 

JVo. 336. Green Pea Puree or Timbales. ^^2 cts. 

A : 1 can peas or 1 qt. fresh peas ; boil with a tiny piece 
of ham and slice of onion 30 m. ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. sugar, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper 
and enough milk to soften. 

Press A through a colander, mix with B, press through a 

123 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

potato-ricer, and serve ; or add 2 eggs beaten separately, and 
bake in pan of hot water 10 to 15 m. See Timbales. Turn 
out and serve with White Sauce No. 229, made with cream 
and 1 c. peas. 

No. JJ"/. Gfccn Peppers Broiled, with Beefsteak, i^ cts. 

A : 6 young green peppers ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter and sprinkling of salt. 

Cut A into quarters, remove seeds, broil on greased broiler 
over very hot fire until edges curl. Spread with B and serve 
on beefsteak. 

No. 338. Green Pepper Farci. jj cts. 

A : 6 young green peppers ; 

B : 1 c. cooked chicken, lamb, or veal, \ c. ham, minced, 
\ c. soft bread-crumbs, f c. cream or stock, 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, 1 tsp. parsley, minced, \ tsp. each salt and onion- 
juice, or use chopped tomatoes instead of meat. 

Cut tops from A, scoop out inside, boil 5 m.; when cool, 
fill with B, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and butter, and if 
tomatoes are used instead of meat, add 1 tbsp. grated cheese 
to crumbs ; bake \ an hour, basting with \ c. water mixed 
with 1 tbsp. butter. Serve surrounded with Tomato Cream 
Sauce No. 260 or Brown Sauce No. 230. 

The following mixture may be used in the place of B : 

2 cs. brown beans, boil until soft, mix with 2 tbsps. but- 
ter, 1 tbsp. tomato catsup, J tsp. salt. 

No. 33g. Hominy Crescents. 12 cts. 

K: \c. hominy or farina and \ c. white stock, soak 15 
m., add to 1\ cs. hot milk ; 

B : \ tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica, few drops onion-juice or 
grating nutmeg, and 2 egg-yolks. 

Cook A in double boiler \ an hour, add B, turn out in shal- 
low tin \ an inch thick. When cold, cut in crescents, crumb, 
egg, and fry. Serve with game. 

183 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. J^o. Jerusalem Artichokes, Fried. i8 cts. 

A : 1 qt. artichokes, boil and cut into inch pieces ; 
B : Batter No. 315. 

Dip A into B, fry in hot fat, drain and serve. 

No. j^i. Mushrooms, Baked under Bells. 8^ cts. 

These mushroom bells are made of fire-proof glass. 

A : 1 lb. large, fresh mushrooms, peel and remove stems ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, dash salt, pepper and nutmeg ; 

C : 1 c. cream ; 

D : 6 round slices toast, toasted only on under side. 

Saute A in B 1 m., add C, cover and sim- 
mer 10 m.; put D on nappies which come 
with the bells, cover with the mushrooms, 
pour over the liquor from pan, put on covers, 
bake 15 to 30 m., and serve without removing 
bells. 

No. 342. Mushrooms, Baked au Gratin. 80 cts. 

A : 1 lb. fresh mushrooms ; 

B : 2 tbsps. bread-crumbs, soaked in stock, dash salt, pep- 
per, and nutmeg, 1 tbsp. tomato catsup, or grated cheese. 

Peel A, select 6 of the largest, chop the remainder with 
stems and saute in butter 2 m., add B, fill the large mush- 
rooms with this ; crumb and bake about 15 m. Serve on 
toast surrounded with Brown Sauce No. 230, mixed with 3 
tbsps. sherry or Madeira. 

No. J4J. Mushrooms, Baked with Oysters. 75 cts. 

A : 6 very large mushrooms, peel and saute in 1 tbsp. 

butter, place on 6 round pieces toast ; 

B : 12 oysters cut into small pieces, mix with dash salt, 

pepper, and nutmeg, and 1 tbsp. butter ; 

C : Port Wine Sauce No. 256. 

Fill A with B, bake 5 to 10 m., serve with C. 

134 




ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 



No. J^^. Mushrooms, Broiled. y^ cts. 

A : 1 lb. large mnshrooms ; 

B : 1 tbsp. melted butter, dash salt and pepper ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. cream, dash salt, pepper, and 

nutmeg ; 

D : 6 slices toast, toasted only on under side. 

Peel A, selecting 6 of the largest, coyer them with B for 
15 m., chop the remainder with the stems and saut6 in C, 
spread over D, broil the large mnshrooms, place on D, 
sprinkle with butter and serve hot. 

^°- 345- Mwshrooms, Creamed for Coquille, 45 cts. 
Ramekin Dishes, Bouchees, Pite's, or Vol aa Vents. 

A : 1 can or \ lb. mushrooms (see Creamed Dishes) ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, cook with 3 of flour until smooth, 
add \ c. stock or liquor from canned mushrooms, \ tsp. 
salt, dash pepper, cayenne and nutmeg, 1 c. hot cream. 

Saute A, if fresh, in butter 15 m., if canned 5, add to B, 
when boiling fill 6 dishes or pdtes, and proceed as directed. 

No. 346. Mushrooms, Deviled. ^j cts. 

Follow Eecipe No. 344, add 1 tsp. mustard, dash cayenne, 
and 1 tbsp. lemon-juice to B, omit cream and nutmeg in C. 

No. J4'/. Mushroom Farci. go cts. 

A : 1 lb. large fresh mushrooms ; 

B : 3 tbsps. fine soft bread-crumbs, 3 truffles, minced, J 

tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg ; 

C : 6 round slices toast, toasted only on under side ; 

D : 1^ es. cream. 

Peel A, select 6 of the largest, chop remainder with stems 
and add to B, stuff the large ones with this mixture and 
sant6 in butter 30 m., place mushrooms on 0, stuffed side 
down, add D to saut6-pan, when hot pour over mushrooms 

and serve. 

125 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. j^8. Mashfoom Poffballs. 50 ds. 

These are very large mushrooms, sometimes called beefsteak 
mushrooms, weighing from 1 to 15 lbs. each. They are peeled, 
cut in slices, and cooked after the following methods : 

TO BAKE. 

A : 1 slice pnffball, 1^ inches thick, spread with 2 tbsps. 
butter, dust with salt and pepper, add 1 c. stock and 1 
tbsp. sherry. 

Bake A | an hour, basting often, cut into 6 fillets, cover 
with liquor from pan and serve. 

TO BKOIL. 

A : 1 slice puffball, f inch thick, broil in greased broiler 
over very hot fire, spread with 2 tbsps. butter, dust with 
salt and pepper, pour over 1 tbsp. wine vinegar, 1 tsp. 
Worcestershire Sauce, \ tsp. Chili pepper or paprica. 

TO FET OK SAUTE. 

A : Cut in \ inch cubes, dip in Batter No. 315, fry in 

hot fat, or saut6 in butter. 

No. S4^. Mushrooms, Sauted. ^j cts. 

See No. 827 in Chafing-Dish Creations. 

No. j^o. Mushroom and Chicken Timhales. ^j cts. 

A : 1^ cs. mushrooms, caps and stems, J c. chicken-meat, 

both chopped fine, saut6 in 2 tbsp. butter, browned with 

1 slice onion ; 

B : 1 c. White Sauce No. 229, J c. fine soft bread-crumbs, 

1 sweet red pepper, chopped, | tsp. salt and 2 egg-yolks, 

well beaten, whites beaten stiff ; 

C : Brown Sauce No. 230 and | c. mushrooms and 1 

truffle, chopped. 

Cook A, add B, fill moulds, bake 15 m., see Timbales, serve 
with C. 

186 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

No. J5/. Onion Souffle or Timbales. 20 cts. 

A ; 6 or 8 onions ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. cream, | tsp. salt, dash pepper 

and cayenne ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. flour, cooked until smooth, | 

tsp. each salt and paprica, 1 c. milk or cream, boil and add 

\ c. bread-crumbs, 1 tsp, parsley and 1 egg-yolk, beaten ; 

D : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff ; 

E ; Tomato Cream Sauce No. 360. 

Peel A under water, boil 5 m., drain, boil again until 
tender, adding sprig of parsley, drain and chop fine, then add 
B and cool ; make C, when boiling add 1 c. of the onion, mix 
thoroughly with D, fill buttered dish or 6 timbale moulds 
(see Timbales) and serye with E. These may be served with 
chicken, turkey, or duck without E. 

No. J^2. Oyster-plant, Fried. 20 cts. 

A : 3 bunches oyster-plant, cut in 2 inch pieces, boil until 

tender ; 

B : Batter No. 315. 

Drain A, dip in B and fry in hot fat. 

No. 3^3. Potatoes Broiled, Fried, or Sauteil. 10 cts. 

A : 8 potatoes, boiled without peeling ; 
B : White Sauce No. 229. 

Skin A, cut into small round balls with potato scoop, fry 
in hot fat or saut§ in butter. Serve with B, or serve sprinkled 
with salt and pepper and chopped parsley, or cut A into thin 
slices, broil and cover with butter and chopped parsley, dust 
with salt and pepper. 

No. J5^. Potato Cream, Baked. 75 cts. 

A : 6 raw potatoes cut into dice ; 

B : 1 c. cream, 2 tbsps. butter, \ tsp. salt and dash 

pepper. 

Drain A, put in buttered baking-dish, add B, cover with 

137 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

crumbs and grated cheese. Bake f of an hour, or nse boiled 
potatoes and bake 15 or 20 m. 

JVo. j^^. Potato Croquettes or Boulettes. 75 cis. 

A : IJ cs. boiled potato pressed through sieve, 1 tbsp. 
butter, i tsp. salt, dash pepper, cayenne, and celery salt ; 
B : J tsp. onion-juice, 1 tsp. parsley minced, or 3 tbsps. 
grated cheese ; 
C : 1 egg-yolk, 2 tbsps. cream. 

Mix A, add B, when cool add C, when quite cold form into 
croquettes, or for boulettes (see Croquettes), add another egg, 
cook 5 m., cool and form into small balls, crumb, egg and 
crumb and fry. 

JVo. j^6. Potato Croquettes en Surprise. 75 c^s. 

Follow Eecipe No. 355, spread mixture out thin in your 
hand, fill with creamed fish, chicken, or peas. Form into 
Croquettes (see Croquettes). 

■^^- 357- Potato Farci. 28 cts. 

*. : 6 large potatoes, peel, cut in two lengthwise, scoop 

out inside, leaving shell | an inch thick ; 

B : 3 cs. raw or cooked beef, minced, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 

tbsp. tomato catsup, 1 tsp. parsley, ^ tsp. onion, chopped 

fine, J tsp. salt, dash pepper ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, and 1 of hot water. 

Fill A with B, cover with buttered crumbs, bake J an hour, 
basting with C, or cut a small slice from end of each potato, 
scoop out the inside, fill with creamed fish or meat, dip ends 
in white of egg, replace them on potatoes and bake J an hour. 

No. j§8. Potatoes au Gratin. 10 cts. 

A : 6 medium sized potatoes, baked ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. hot cream, \ tsp. salt, dash 

pepper, 3 egg-whites, well beaten. 

Cut slices from top of A while hot, scoop out inside, mix 

128 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

with B, refill A, sprinkle with hread, cheeae-crumhs, and 
bits of butter. Brown in hot oven. 

No. S59- Potatoes with Hollandaise Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 6 new potatoes, boil, drain, and cover with 3 tbsps. 

melted butter ; 

B : Hollandaise Sauce No. 245. 

Place A on back of range until butter is absorbed. Serve 
with C. 

No. j6o. Potato Roses. 8 cts. 

A : 2 OS. hot mashed potato, pressed through a potato- 
ricer, 3 tbsps. butter, | tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica or dash 
of cayenne, dash celery-salt, 3 egg-yolks, slightly beaten ; 
B ; Egg-whites, slightly beaten with 1 tbsp. water. 

Beat A thoroughly with a fork and press through pastry- 
bag and tube onto tin or stifE-oiled paper, in form of roses. 
Brush with B, and brown in oven. Serve as a garnish 
around meat, fish, or poultry. 

No. j6l. Potatoes, Scalloped with Egfgfs. i£ cts. 

A : 3J cs. cold boiled potatoes, sliced thin ; 

B : 3 hard-boiled eggs, sliced ; 

C : White Sauce No. 229, less 1 tbsp. flour, dash salt and 

paprica. 

Put a layer of A in buttered dish, then a layer of B, then 
a layer of 0, repeat until dish is full. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake 15 m., add grated cheese to crumbs. 

No. 362. Potatoes, Saute'd with Cream Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 2 cs. raw potatoes, cut into dice, parboil 2 m., drain 
and saut6 in 2 tbsps. butter until brown and tender ; 
B : 1 c. White Sauce No. 229, seasoned with 1 tsp. meat- 
extract or \ c. very strong stock, and J tsp. Kitchen 
Bouquet, 1 tsp. chopped parsley. 

Cook A, add B and serve. 

129 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. j6j. Potatoes Sliced and Baked Whole. lo cts. 

A : 6 raw potatoes peeled ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, dash salt and pepper. 

Slice A crosswise in very thin slices, hold in shape with 
small wooden skewers or toothpicks, place in baking-pan, 
add B, bake until brown, basting and turning often. Serve 
with beef fillet. 

No. J64. Potato Strips, Baked. 10 cts. 

A : 6 raw potatoes, peeled and cut into strips, soak in 
cold salted water 1 houi* ; 
B : % tbsps. melted butter. 

Drain A, wipe and dip in B, lay them in large baking-pan, 
sprinkle with salt and paprica and bake until light brown. 

No. j6§. Potato Soaffle or Timbales. 10 cts. 

A : 2 cs. mashed potatoes «?ell seasoned ; 
B : 3 egg-yolks, beaten, 3 tbsps. cream ; 
C : 2 egg-whites, beaten very stiff. 

Add B to A, mix thoroughly, fold in C, fill buttered dish 
or timbale-moulds. (See Timbales.) 

No. 366. Potato Soaffle" Coried. 8 cts. 

Peel 6 potatoes, cut around in curls as you would peel an 
apple. Follow method for Sweet Potato Souffle No. 378. 

No. j(5/. Rice Cassetole. 12 cts, 

A : 1 c. rice boiled in chicken broth ; 
B : 1 beaten egg and 2 tbsps. cream. 

Mix A with B, butter a ring-mould, dip it in cold milk, 
fill with the rice, when cold turn out on a dish. Brush with 
beaten egg, brown slightly, fill with Chicken Curry No. 795. 

130 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 



No. j68. Rice Ooquettes, Savory. /^ cts. 

A : 1 c. rice, boiled in stock ; 

B : 1 tbsp. tomato liquor, 2 tbsps. grated cheese, 1 tbsp. 

butter, J tsp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, 2 egg-yolks, 

beaten. 

Mix Bi add A, form into croquettes (see Croquettes). 

No. j6g. Rice and Mushroom Croquettes. 2§ cts. 

A : i c. rice ; 

B : I lb. dried mushrooms or c^pes soaked over night in 

luke-warm water, slice of onion, slice of carrot, sprig of 

parsley ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 

yolks 2 eggs. 

Cover B with water and boil until tender, strain the liquor 
and boil A in it, then mix with the mushrooms chopped fine, 
add C, when cool form into croquettes (see Croquettes). 

No. syo. Rice Pflaff. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. rice, 2 cs. stock, J c. tomato pulp ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, J tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica, and 1 tsp. 

curry. 

Boil A until rice is tender, add B, press in buttered mould, 
and serve hot. 

No. J//. Rice Saute'. 8 cts. 

A : 2 cs. boiled or steamed rice, each grain should be 

separate ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, very hot. 

Saut6 A in B a little at a time until light brown, sprinkle 
with salt and paprica, and serve. 

A very nice way to cook rice is to cover 1 c. rice with 1 qt. 
cold water, add 1 tsp. salt ; boil 10 m., transfer to double 
boiler, add 2 cs. cold milk, cover and steam until milk ia 

absorbed. 

131 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. J7^. Rice Timbale Cases. j cts. 

A : 2 cs. boiled rice ; 

B : Creamed fish, meat, or chicken. 

Fill Timbale moulds with A, when cold scoop out the in- 
side, fill with B, or use hollow Timbale moulds buttered, when 
cold turn out and fill centres with B. 

N^o. jyS' Spanish Onion Farci. i^ cts. 

A : 6 onions peeled ; 

B : 1 c. chicken or meat, minced, \ c. soaked bread- 
crumbs, J c. onion, minced, 2 tbsps. melted butter, J tap. 
salt, \ tsp. paprica, 1 tsp. parsley. 

Scoop out centres of A, leaving them cup-shape, boil 10 m. 
and drain, fill with B, bake until tender, basting with \ c. 
stock, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, brown and serve with 
White Sauce No. 329. 

No. jy4. Spinach Timbales or Qoustades. 40 cts. 

A : 1\ cs. spinach, boiled, chopped, and seasoned, add 2 
tbsps. bread-crumbs, J c. chopped mushrooms, sauted in 
butter ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour, cook until smooth, add 
\ c. cream, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 2 egg- 
yolks, beaten ; 
C : 2 whites, beaten stiff. 

Mix A, add B when boiling, fold in C, decorate moulds with 
boiled turnips and carrots and hard-boiled eggs cut in fancy 
pieces, fill with the mixture (see Timbales); or fill Bread 
Croustades No. 222. 

No. 375. Spaghetti, with Tomato Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : \ package spaghetti, boil with slice of onion, \ bay- 
leaf, 2 cloves, \ tsp. salt, and 3 pepper-corns ; 
B : Tomato Sauce No. 259 ; or 1 c. tomato juice and pulp ; 
C : J c. grated cheese. 

132 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

Cook A, drain into J c. hot oil or melted butter in a large 
hot dish, toss with a fork, add B, sprinkle with C, heat in 
oven 1 m. and serye. 

No. jy6. Sweet Potato G-oquettes. 20 cts. 

A : 2 cs. mashed sweet potatoes, 3 tbsps. butter, J tsp. 
salt, J tsp. sugar, 1 tbsp. cream, yolks of 2 eggs ; 
B : Velontg Sauce No. 262. 

Mix A, when cool form into croquettes (see Croquettes), 
and serve with B. If served with meat and sauce, omit B. 

No. Jjy. Sweet Potatoes, GUiZed. i^ cts. 

A : 6 potatoes, boil 10 m., drain, and cut in slices ; 
B : ^ c. sugar, 4 tbsps. water, 2 tbsps. butter, boil 5 m. 

Put A in buttered pan, brush with B, bake 30 m., basting 
often with B. 

No. jy8. Sweet Potato Souffle, Fried. 8 cts. 

A : 2 cs. sweet potatoes, peeled and cut in J-inch slices ; 
B : J lb. lard. 

Soak A in salted ice-water \ an hour, drain and cover the 
bottom of a frying basket, heat B to 110 degrees, plunge in A, 
and cook 8 m., constantly increasing heat of fat to 140 degrees, 
take out basket, heat lard to 200 degrees, plunge in basket 
a few seconds to souffl6 the potatoes. Drain and serve 
immediately. A cooking thermometer must be used to test 
temperature of lard and, for convenience, two kettles of fat. 

No. j'/g. Tomatoes, Baked. i^ cts. 

A : 3 large firm tomatoes, cut into halves ; 
B : 1 green pepper chopped fine, 1 tbsp. butter in bits, 
dash of salt and paprica ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour, browned, \ c. cream ; 
D : 6 round slices toast. 
Put A in baking-pan, sprinkle with B, and bake \ an hour, 
place on D, add C to pan, when boiling strain over the to- 
matoes. 

133 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. j8o. Tomatoes, Broiled or Sauted. lo cts. 

A : 6 slices of tomato \ inch thick ; 

B : 1 tbsp. oil or butter, dash pepper and salt, and fine 

cornmeal or crumbs ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter in bits and 1 tsp. parsley, minced. 

Dip A in B, broil on greased broiler or saute in butter, 
sprinkle with C, and serve. 

No. j8i. Tomato G-oqoettes or Crescents. 12 cts. 

A : \ can tomatoes, 3 cloves, 1 tbsp. sugar, slice onion, \ 

tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 4 tbsps. corn-starch, cook until 

smooth ; 

C : 1 egg, beaten slightly. 

Cook A 30 m., strain, add B, when boiling add C, pour 
out to cool, cut into shape, heart or crescent, crumb, egg, 
and crumb and fry in hot fat. 

No. 382. Tomatoes, Deviled. 12 cts. 

A : 6 slices of tomato \ an inch thick ; 
B : 3 hard-boiled egg-yolks mashed smooth, with \ tsp. 
each salt and paprica, 1 tsp. each powdered sugar and 
mustard, 2 tbsps. tarragon vinegar or lemon-juice ; 
C : 2 eggs beaten. 

Broil A, mix B in saut6-pan, when boiling add C, stir until 
thick, and pour over A. 

No. J83. Tomatoes, Farci. 32 cts. 

A : 6 large, firm tomatoes ; 

B : 1 c. chicken, minced, \ c. soft bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. 
butter and \ c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper and pap- 
rica, 2 tsps. minced parsley, or 

C : 1 c. game, minced, \ c. boiled rice, 1 truffle, chopped, 
3 tbsps. game gravy or butter, dash of salt and paprica, 
1 tsp. curry, or 

134 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

D : 1 c. grated corn, ^ c. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. butter, 4 
tbsps. cream, 1 tsp. sugar, dash of salt and cayenne, or 
E : 1 c. mushrooms, minced, ^ c. chicken, bread-crumbs 
or boiled rice, 1 tbsp. melted butter, J c. cream, dash 
salt and pepper. 

Cut tops from A, but do not peel, scoop out inside, drain, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, fill with B, 0, D, or E, cover 
with bread-crumbs and bits of butter and bake | an hour. 

No. j8^. Turnips, Glazed. 8 cts. 

A : 6 turnips, cut into round balls or thin slices, boil 

10 m. ; 

B : I tsp. each salt and sugar, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 

1 c. clear stock ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 of flour, cooked until smooth. 

Drain A, place in baking-pan, pour over B, bake i an 
hour, basting often. Place on hot dish, add liquor from pan 
to 0. When boiling pour over turnips and serve. 



185 




Sherbet, sometimes called sorbet, which is a frozen 
punch or ice, is served as a course in the middle of a 
dinner or luncheon. It is supposed to have a stimu- 
lating effect upon the digestive organs, thereby en- 
abling the diner to appreciate what follows after. 
This course always precedes the game or salad, and is 
served in small glasses on a small plate or saucer, with 
a doily between, and a small spoon. These are al- 
ways arranged in the butler's pantry ; a heaping table- 
spoonful of the sherbet, which should not be frozen 
too hard, will be sufficient for each glass. Sometimes 
sherbets are served in candy cups or fancy paper 
cases, but the glasses that are made for the purpose 
are in better taste, unless something very artistic is 
accomplished. These are placed in front 
of each guest from the right and removed 
from the right also, unless two servants 
are in attendance, when one should re- 
move the preceding course from the 
left, while the other places the follow- 
ing course from the right. This rule will be found 
convenient in serving all courses. 

186 




SHERBETS 

•^' 3^5- Brandy and Sherry Sherbet. 27 cts, 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice No. 639 ; 
B : 3 tbsps. brandy and 3 of sherry mixed. 

Fill 6 glasses with A, add 1 tbsp. of B to each, and serve. 

No. j86. Cardinal Sherbet ^2 cts. 

A : 1 pt. red raspberry ice or lemon ice, colored ; 
B : i c. Maraschino and J c. Cura^oa, mixed. 

Add B to A before freezing. 

No. j8^. Champagne Sherbet. 6^ cts. 

A : 1 pt. Orange Ice No. 639 ; 
B : i pt. American champagne. 

Add B to A before freezing. 

No. 388. Qaret Sherbet. jj- cts. 

A : 1 pt. lemon ice made of half water and half claret. 
Add strawberries when serving. 

No. s8g. Coffee Sherbet. 25 cts. 

A : 1 pt. black coffee, i c. cream and i c. sugar ; 
B : J c. brandy. 
Freeze A, fill glasses, add 1 tbsp. of B to each and serve. 

No. jgo. Cremc de Menthe. jo cts. 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice colored pale green. No. 639 ; 
B : 4 tbsps. Crime de Menthe cordial. 
Add B to A after it is frozen. 

No. 3gi. Creme Yvette. j«5 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice No. 639 ; 
B : 4 tbsps. Crime Yvette cordial ; 
C : 18 fresh violets. 
Add B to A before freezing, fill glasses, add 2 or 3 of C to 

each glass. 

137 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No, 3g2. Fwit Shetbet, 50 cts. 

A : Fruit Macedoine No. 533 ; 
B : 1 c. Lemon Ice No. 639. 

Fill glasses with A, cover with 1 tbsp. of B, and serve, 
or the following method : 

A : 1 pt. mixed fresh fruits, strawberries, raspberries, 
currants, cherries and gooseberries mashed, \ c. Mara- 
schino and brandy, juice 1 lemon ; 
B : Lemon peel, cooked with 1 c. boiling water and f c. 
of sugar. 

Boil B 5 m., when cool add to A, and freeze. 

No. jgj. Ginger Sherbet. 20 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice No. 639 ; 

B : 1 c. preserved or candied ginger cut in small pieces. 

Fill glasses with A, put B in centre and serve. 

No. jg^. Giape Sherbet. 20 cts. 

Follow recipe for Orange Ice No. 639, using grape-juice in- 
stead of water. 

No. jg§. Lalla Rookh Sherbet. ^2 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 609 ; 
B : J c. Jamaica rum. 

Add B to A before freezing. 

No. jp6. Maraschino Cherry Sherbet. J^ cts. 

A : 1 pt. Orange Ice No. 639 ; 
B : I c. liquor from cherries ; 
C : 1 c. Maraschino cherries. 

Add B to A before freezing, fill glasses and add C. 

No. jg/. Mint Sherbet. JO cts. 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice No. 639 ; 

B : 5 sprigs mint soaked in J c. brandy and sherry 1 hour. 
138 



SHERBETS 

Strain B, add to A before freezing, or fill glasses with A, 
add 1 tbsp. of B to each glass. 

No. 3g8, Orange Sherbet. i8 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Orange Ice No. 639 ; 

B : 1 orange, peeled and sliced, rejecting seeds. 

Add B to A after freezing as a garnish. 

No. jgg. Peach Sherbet. 20 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice No. 639 ; 

B : 3 fresh peaches cut in slices, or 3 brandy peaches cut 

in halves. 

Add B to A after freezing, or 

A : 1 c. sugar, 2 cs. water, and J tsp. granulated gelatine, 
boiled, 1 c. peach pulp, \ c. orange-juice, juice of 1 lemon. 

Freeze and fill glasses. 

No. 4.00. Roman Sherbet. 20 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Lemon Ice No. 639 ; 
B : i c. rum. 

Add B to A when half -frozen. 

No. 4.01. Rose-Leaf Sherbet. jo cts. 

A : 1 pt. Eoman Sherbet No. 400 ; 
B : i c. fresh or candied rose-leaves. 

Fill glasses with A, sprinkle in B, and serve. 

No. 402. Siberian Sherbet. J2 cts. 

A : 1 c. French or Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 608 or 

609, and 1 c. whipped cream, mixed ; 

B : 4 tbsps. rum and 3 tbsps. Kirshwasser, mixed. 

Fill glasses with A, add 1 tbsp. of B to each glass. 



139 




Game is usually served from the side table or but- 
ler's pantry, unless the host prefers to show his skill 
in carving. The filled plates are placed in front of 
each guest from the right, and the currant jelly or 
fruit relish, which usually accompanies game, is passed 
to the left. If salad is served with game, which is 
customary, unless it follows with cheese as a separ- 
ate course, it is sometimes prepared by the host, and 
should be passed as soon as game is served. Only 
vegetable salad should be served with game. Meat 
salad should not be served at dinner, and is only ad- 
missible at luncheon, when there are few meat courses. 
If the game plates are very hot, place small, cold 
plates at the left of each cover for the salad, but if the 
salad is served on leaves of lettuce to 
protect it from the heat of the plate, it 
will avoid the necessity of the extra 
plate and is better form. 

Remove this course from the right of 
each cover, one at a time or one in each 
hand. If the small plate is used, take 
up the game plate first, then place the 
salad plate upon it. This is the only 
exception to the general rule never to 
pile plates one on top of the other. 
Serve Burgundy. 

140 




GAME 

DUCKS, BROILED 

(Season from September 1st to April 1st.) 

Method. 

Singe, draw, and wipe with damp cloth, split down the 
back, and flatten with a cleaver ; cover with 2 tbsps. olive oil 
or butter and i tsp. salt, dash pepper, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, ^ 
hour. Then broil 20 m. ; serve with Maitre d'Hdtel Sauce 
No. 248 or Game Sauce No. 431. 

DUCXS, ROASTED 

Method. 

Singe, draw, and wipe ducks, draw the heads over the 
backs, between the drum-sticks, rinse inside with water and 
lemon-juice, truss and cut ofE wings at second joint, sprinkle 
inside with salt and pepper and put 2 or 3 cranberries in 
each duck, spread breasts thin with butter, dust with pepper 
and salt, place in baking pan with 2 tbsps. water, and bake in 
very hot oven 20 m., basting frequently. Serve very hot 
with Currant Jelly Forms No. 276 and Hominy Crescents 
No. 339. 

JVo. 40J. Canvas Backs, Broiled or Roasted. $£.2^. 
Follow Method, using 3 ducks. 

No. 404. Redheads, Broiled or Roasted. $3-75- 

Follow Method, using 2 ducks. 

No. 40§. Ruddy Ducks or Butter Balls. $3-75' 

Follow Method, using 6 ducks, as they are very small. 

No. 406. Blue Bills, Broad Bills, and Whistlers, $3.00. 
Broiled or Roasted. 

Follow Method, using 6 ducks. 

141 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. 40'^. Teals, Broiled ot Roasted. $2.yo. 

Follow Method, using 6 ducks. 

No. 408. GROUSE {2, Sf-SS), PARTRIDGES 

( J, S2.30), PRAIRIE CHICKENS (j-, S2.J0), 

PHEASANTS (2, $3.55). 

{Season from August 1st to January 1st.) 

TO BROIL 

Method. 

Singe, draw, and wipe the birds, split down the back, have 
breasts larded, or roll them in % tbsps. oil or melted butter, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, broil 15 to 20 m., spread 
breasts with butter, and serve on squares of fried hominy with 
currant jelly. 

TO DEVIL 

Method. 

Broil 15 m. and roll in 1 tbsp. melted butter mixed with 

1 tbsp. parsley, minced, juice of 1 lemon, ^ tsp. salt and 
paprica. Then sprinkle lightly with mustard, roll in fine 
crumbs, and bake in very hot oven 10 m. 

TO SAUTE 

Method. 

Skin and remove legs and wings, flatten the breasts, roll in 
flour and saut6 in butter until brown, place on hot dish, add 

2 tbsps. of browned flour to the saute-pan, stir until smooth, 
add IJ cs. hot stock or water, season with salt, pepper, and 
Kitchen Bouquet. Strain and pour around the birds. 

143 



GAME 

TO ROAST 

Method. 

Dress and tmss the birds, lard breasts or cover with slices 
salt pork, or spread them with butter. Put a small piece of 
toast, wet in sherry, inside, or a small piece of butter rolled 
in salt and pepper, place in baking-pan with 1 tbsp. butter 
and 3 of boiling water, bake 30 or 30 m., basting frequently. 

Any of these birds may be boned (see No. 303), cooked, and 
served cold in bed of lettuce or watercress, accompanied by 
French Dressing No. 436 or Mayonnaise No. 437. 

No. /f.og. Hare or Rabbit, Roasted. 75 cts. 

{Season from Septemler 1st to January 1st.) 

A : 1 hare or 3 rabbits, cleaned and skinned ; 

B : i c. white or red wine, juice of one lemon, 1 onion, 

sliced, 1 sprig thyme or parsley ; 

C : 4 slices salt pork or bacon. 

Mix B, pour over A, and let it stand 5 or 6 hours, cover 
breasts with C, place in baking-pan, dust with pepper, salt, 
and flour, pour over the wine mixture, and bake | of an hour, 
basting frequently. 

No. 410. Hare or Rabbit, Engflish Style, Roasted. 84 cis. 

A : 3 fat young rabbits, clean and stufE with 3 cs. bread- 
crumbs soaked in milk and mixed with ^ c. mushrooms 
and the livers, minced, J tsp. each salt and paprica, juice 
and grated rind of one lemon ; 
B : 1 lemon cut in two and juice ; 
C : 1 c. cream ; 
D : Piquante Sauce No. 153. 

Rub A with B, let stand an hour, place in baking-pan, 
pour over C, and bake f of an hour. Place on hot dish, pour 
over cream from pan, and serve with D in a boat. 

143 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 411. Hate or Rabbit, Sauted and Jugged. 80 cts. 

A : 1 hare, clean, skin, and cut into pieces, 2 tbsps. 
butter or 2 or 3 slices bacon ; 

B : 1 onion stuck with cloves, 1 lemon, sliced, 3 cs. beef- 
stock ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, 3 tbsps. flour, cook until slightly brown, 
add 2 cs. stock from jug, 1 tbsp. mushroom catsup, J c. 
port wine, and \ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet. 

Saute A, add B, turn all into a jar, cover, and put in pan 
filled with cold water, stew 3 or 4 hours, cook C, add to hare, 
and serve. 

No. 412. Hare or Rabbit Fillets, Stewed. 75 cts. 

A : 2 rabbits, skin, cut into 6 fillets, and saut6 in 2 tbsps. 
butter, \ an onion, 1 bay-leaf, 2 sprigs parsley, 2 of thyme, 
and 2 cloves ; 

B : 2 tbsps. flour, browned, add 1^ cs. stock, \ tsp. salt, 
dash pepper, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, and 1 tbsp. lemon- 
juice. 

Saut6 A, add B, cook 30 m., place on hot dish, strain the 
sauce over the fillets, and serve, or cook the rabbits in the 
following sauce : 

A : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. curry powder, \ tsp. sugar, \ 

tsp. salt, and 2 tbsps. flour ; 

B : 1 c. hot water, 1 0. strained tomatoes, 6 raisins, 

seeded, \ c. sour apple, minced ; 

C : 1 c. hot cream, \ c. chopped olives. 

Cook A until brown, add B slowly, cover rabbits, and cook 
until tender, then add C, and serve. 

No. 41 J. Partridge, with Cream Sauce, Baked. $2.^0. 

A : 3 partridges, truss, cover breasts with thin slices 

bacon ; 

B : 2 cs. cream. 

Place A in baking-dish with 1 tbsp. butter, bake J hour, 
basting often, remove bacon, cover with bread-crumbs, and 

144 



GAME 

bake until brown, place on hot dish, add B to pan, when 
boiling pour over partridges, and serve. 

No. 414. Partridge Fillets Sapreme, Baked or $2.65. 

Sauted. 

A : Breasts from 3 partridges ; 

B : 3 truffles and 3 mushrooms, minced fine, 1 tbsp. 

butter, \ c. consomm^, \ tsp. salt, dash pepper, nutmeg 

and cayenne, thicken with bread-crumbs ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, dust with salt and pepper and flour. 

Cook B, when cool split A in two lengthwise, put in a 
layer of dressing, tie or skewer them together, cover with C, 
then with buttered paper, and bake \ an hour, or saut6 them 
in butter. Serve with Madeira Sauce No. 347 and Chestnut 
Boulettes No. 326. 

No. 4.15. Pigeons with Mushrooms, Stewed, go cts. 

A : 3 pigeons dressed ; 

B : 1 c. bread-crumbs, 1 tbsp. suet, chopped fine, 1 egg, 

beaten, J tsp. salt, and dash pepper ; 

C : 1 bay-leaf, 2 or 3 peppercorns, 2 cs. boiling water or 

stock ; 

D : 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsps. flour, browned, 2 cs. liquor 

from pan, ^ lb. fresh mushrooms, cut in pieces. 

Stuff A with B, put in sauce-pan, cover with C, and stew 
until tender, about an hour, take out pigeons, cut them in 
halves, put them on a hot dish and keep warm, cook D 10 or 
15 m., skim, pour over pigeons, and serve. 

No. 416. Plover, Snipe, Squabs, or Woodcock, $1.25, 

Broiled. 

{Season from September 1st to May 1st.) 

A : 6 birds, larded or covered with bacon ; 

B : 2 tbsps. oil or melted butter, J tsp. salt, and dash 

pepper. 

145 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Split backs of A without separating, break leg-bones, skin 
neads and tuck the bills in the breasts, dip in B, and broil 10 
m., basting often with the butter, spread with butter, dust 
with salt and pepper, and serve on fried hominy, or toast 
dipped in melted butter. 

No.^iy. Plover, Snipe, Squabs, or Woodcock, $1.30. 

Roasted. 

A : 6 birds ; 

B : Game Farei No. 430, or a force-meat of fresh mush- 
rooms and a very little salt pork. 

Tuck heads of A under wings, dust with pepper and salt, 
spread with butter, and bake 15 m., serve on toast spread with 
B. If the force-meat is used, chop giblets, saute in butter 
with 1 slice of onion, add 1 tsp. flour, when bubbling add | c. 
hot water, \ c. white wine, salt and pepper, and pour over 
birds. 

No. if 18. Quails, Broiled. $l.y^. 

{Season from November 1st to January 1st.) 

A : 6 birds, split down the back ; 
B : Game Farci No. 430. 

Dip A in oil or melted butter seasoned with salt and pepper, 
broil 10 m., basting frequently, spread with butter, and serve 
on toast spread with B, or with pAt6 de foie gras. 

No. 41 g. Quails, Roasted. $l.8§. 

A : 6 birds, truss and cover each one with 1 thin slice 

salt pork ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, pepper and salt, dust with flour. 

Place A in baking-pan with 3 tbsps. boiling water, cover 
and steam 15 m., remove cover and pork, cover with B, and 
bake 15 m., basting often. Serve on toast with Port Wine 
Sauce No. 256. Quails may be boned (see No. 302) and served 
cold on bed of watercress. 

146 



GAME 



No. //.zo. Quails, Stewed. $2.00. 

A : 6 birds, sant6 until brown in 3 tbsps. butter ; 

B : 2 cs. stock, \ onion and 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, 2 

tbsps. strained tomato-juice ; 

C : 2 tbsps. butter and 2 tbsps. flour, browned, 1 c. 

mushrooms ; 

D : J c. sherry or claret. 

Coyer A with B, stew \ hour, or until tender, place on hot 
dish, strain liquor from pan into C, simmer 10 m., add D, and 
pour over the birds. 

No. 421, Quaik with Troffles, Roasted. $2.2 £. 

A : 6 birds, stufE with the livers saut§d in pork or bacon, 

chopped fine, add \ tsp. salt, dash pepper and nutmeg, 1 

truffle minced, 2 tbsps. soaked bread-crumbs ; 

B : |- c. stock, \ c. white wine ; 

: 6 truffles cut in slices or chopped fine. 

Tie slice of pork on each bird, place in baking-pan, add B, 
bake \ hour, basting often, remove bacon, place birds on hot 
dish, skim, and strain liquor from pan, add 0, pour over 
quails, and serve. 

No. 422. Quails, Liitded with Truffles, Saute3. $2.25. 

A : The breasts from 6 birds ; 

B : 3 truffles, sliced ; 

C : Port Wine Sauce No. 256, or Madeira Sauce No. 247. 

Cut gashes in A, insert B, roll in flour, and saute in butter 
until brown. Serve 2 breasts to each person, with C poured 
over. 

No. 42 J. Reed Birds, Roasted. $l-(>5- 

A : 12 birds ; 

B : 12 thin, small slices of bacon or pork. 

Eemove feet and wings from A, skin the heads, cover each 
bird with B, roast on skewers before fire, or in baking-pan 10 

147 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

m. Remove bacon, spread with bntter, dust with pepper and 
salt, and serve on toast, 2 for each person. 

No. 42 ^f. Reed Bitds in Sweet Potatoes, 80 cts. 

Roasted. 

A : 6 birds spread with batter and dusted with salt and 

pepper ; 

B : 3 large sweet potatoes. 

Cut B in two lengthwise, scoop out the inside, place a bird 
in each, bake 20 m., or until potatoes are done, basting with 
melted butter and hot water. Serve with gravy from pan 
poured over. 

No. 42^. Reed Birds, Saute<i. $i-55- 

A : 12 birds ; 

B : i c. stock, juice lemon, salt and pepper. 

Saute A in butter 5 m., add B, cook until done, place birds 
on toast, cover with sauce from pan, and serve. 

No. 426. Squirrels, Stewed. yo cts. 

A : 2 large gray squirrels ; 

B : \Vo. salt pork cut in small pieces, 2 sprigs parsley, 

i onion sliced, J tsp. salt, dash pepper, 3 cs. boiling water. 

C : 6 ears of corn cut from cob ; 

D : 3 tomatoes peeled and sliced ; 

E : 1 tbsp. butter and 2 of flour browned. 

Skin A, cut in small pieces, put in a saucepan, add B, boil 
10 m., add C, simmer until squirrels are tender, then add D, 
simmer 15 m. Place squirrels on hot dish, add gravy from 
saucepan to E. When boiling, pour over squirrels and serve. 

No. 42^. Venison, Chops or Steaks, Broiled. 68 cts. 

{Season, August 15th to November 1st.) 

A : 2 lbs. venison, | of an inch thick, cut into 6 fillets ; 
B : 2 tbsps. oil or melted butter, J tsp. salt, dash of cay- 
enne and nutmeg ; 

148 



GAME 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. currant jelly, 2 tbsps. Madeira, 
sherry, or port wine. 

Dip A into B, broil 10 m., cover with C, and serve very hot. 

No. 428. Venison, Chops or Steaks, Sauted. 65 cts. 

A : 2 lbs. venison, cut into fillets, roll in oil seasoned 

with salt and pepper ; 

B : 1 onion, 1 carrot, saute in butter, add 1 pt. vinegar, 

1 pt. water, 2 bay-leaves, 2 sprigs thyme, 3 of parsley, 4 

cloves, 6 pepper-corns ; 

C : Currant Jelly Sauce No. 242, or put 1 tbsp. butter 

and \ c. port wine in pan ; when hot, pour over steaks. 

Let A stand 1 hour, or immerse in B 24 hours, drain, and 
saute in butter on both sides in very hot pan. Serve with 0. 

No. 42g. Venison, Roasted. $i-55- 

A : 5 lbs., or a saddle, trimmed and larded ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter, salt, and pepper ; 
C : 1 onion and 1 carrot, sliced ; 
D : Madeira Sauce No. 247. 

Eub A with lemon-juice, cover with B, place in baking-pan 
over C, bake f of an hour, basting constantly. Serve with B 
and Currant Jelly Forms No. 276. 

No. 4J0. Game Farci. 8 cts. 

A : Liver of birds chopped fine ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, dash of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
cayenne, \ tsp. parsley and 1 tsp. chives chopped fine, 1 
beaten egg, and \ c. soaked bread-crumbs. 

Mix A with B, stuff the birds, or spread on toast under the 

birds. 

No. 4.JI. Game Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. bacon, minced, 1 onion, 1 tsp. parsley ; 
B : \\ cs. hot stock, \ bay-leaf, liver of birds, minced, 1 
tbsp. butter, \ tsp. salt, and dash pepper, 3 tbsps. mush- 
rooms, and 2 tbsps. bread-crumbs. 

Cook A, add B, boil 10 m., and pour over birds. 

149 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



FROM COLD COOKED GAME 

No. 432. Duck Salmi. $1-50. 

A : 2 cs. duck meat cnt in small pieces ; 

B : 2 cs. stock or duck-gravy, 1 sprig parsley, 2 cloves, 

and 4 pepper-corns ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter and 2 of flour, browned ; 

D : 6 button-onions and 6 mushrooms sauted in butter, 

6 stoned olives, 1 lemon-peel grated, and J c. Madeira. 

Cook B 10 m., add A, simmer 10 m., add 1^ cs. liquor from 
the pan to C ; when boiling, return to saucepan, add D, cook 
10 m., and serve hot. 

No. 4.JJ. Gfouse Salmi. i^ cts. 

A : 2 cs. grouse meat cut in small pieces ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ onion, \ carrot, sprig of thyme or 

parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 6 pepper-corns, 2 tbsps. flour ; 

C : 1 c. stock, \ c. mushroom liquor, 2 tbsps. sherry, 

grating of lemon-peel and nutmeg, 6 mushrooms, and 2 

truffles cut in small pieces. 

Cook B, add C ; when boiling, add A, simmer 25 m., and 
serve. 



130 




All salads are suitable for lunclieon, but care 
should be taken, however, not to serve meat too often. 
Only vegetable salads should be served at dinner. If 
a French dressing is used, the host or hostess may pre- 
pare the salad on the table, but at formal dinners it 
is usually made in the butler's pantry, just before 
serving ; a French dressing will not bear waiting. A 
vegetable salad is usually served with game and is 
often followed by a hot cheese course. With a heavy 
dinner the light salad is more desirable, and if there 
is no game, the salad may be served with cheese or 
cheese preparations. This is the English way, how- 
ever, and if the hostess prefers to serve cheese and 
wafers after the dessert, it is 
perfectly proper to do so. Serve 
the salad as you do all of the 
other courses, followed by the 
cheese and pulled bread, or wa- 
fers. Remove this course in the 
same manner you have taken 
the others. In the next section. Eggs and Cheese, 

directions are given for clearing the table. 

151 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

No. 434. Boiled Dtessing. 10 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter creamed, add i tsp. each salt, paprica, 
and mustard, f c. hot milk, 1 tsp. sugar ; 
B : 2 egg-yolks, slightly beaten ; 
C : 3 tbsps. hot vinegar. 

Stir A thoroughly and pour slowly over B, return to double 
boiler, stir until thick, add 0, gradually, strain at once, and 
serve cold. 

No. 4J^. Cream Boiled Dressing:. i£ cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter, creamed, add 1 tsp. each salt and 

sugar, J tsp. each mustard and paprica or dash cayenne ; 

B : 2 egg-yolks, beaten slightly ; 

C : 4 tbsps. hot tarragon or plain vinegar ; 

D : f c. cream whipped. 

Put B in double boiler, add C, slowly, beating constantly 
until thick, remove from fire, add A, beat thoroughly, when 
perfectly cold add D, and serve. 

No. 4j6. French Dressing. 12 cts. 

A : 1^ tsps. salt in centre of bowl rubbed with onion, or 
add i tsp. onion-Juice, cover with pepper, then, with cay- 
enne, add 6 tbsps. oil and 2 of vinegar ; 
B : Piece of ice size of an egg. 

Add B to A, stir with a fork 5 m., remove B, beat until 
thick, and serve at once, or add seasonings to vinegar, then 
add oil, and stir well. The first way makes a thicker dressing 
and will stand better. 

No. 43y. Mayonnaise Dressing. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 very cold egg-yolk in bowl rubbed with onion, yolk 
of 1 boiled egg ; 

B : 1 c. cold olive oil, but do not let oil freeze, as it makes 
dressing separate j 

153 



SALADS 

C : 1 tsp. salt, J tsp. cayenne, ^ tsp. mustard and | tsp. 
sugar, 1 tbsp. vinegar and 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, mix 
thoroughly. 

Add B to A, drop by drop, stirring constantly in same 
direction with silver fork, or use a mayonnaise mixer, which 
may be bought for 11.25. When thick add C, a few drops at 
a time ; if it curdles add slowly to another cold egg-yolk until 
smooth. The boiled egg-yolk may be omitted. 

No. ^j8. Mayonnaise Cream Dressing;. jo cts. 

A : 1 c. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 and \ more 

seasonings ; 

B : i c. cream, whipped very stiff. 

When ready to serve add B to A. 

No. 4Sg. Mayonnaise Jelly Dressing. jo cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. arrowroot dissolved in \ c. water ; 
B : i c. Aspic Jelly No. 308 soft, or 1 tsp. gelatine dis- 
solved in J c. consomme ; 
C : 1 c. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Add A to C while beating, then add B. This is used to 
mask meats. 

No. 44.0. Whipped G-eam Dressing. 75 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. grated horseradish, 2 tbsps. lemon-juice, 1 
tbsp. tarragon vinegar, 1 tsp. salt, \ tsp. each mustard 
and sugar, 2 drops of Tabasco sauce or \ tsp. cayenne ; 
B : 1 c. cream, whipped very stiff. 

Mix A, when ready to serve add to B» 

No. 441. Tarragon Vinegar for Salad Dressings. 10 cts. 

A : 1 pt. tarragon leaves, 2 or 3 pepper-corns, 2 cloves, 1 
pt. good vinegar. 
Pill jar with A and seal. In two or three weeks strain and 
press through a cloth, bottle, and seal. 

153 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. 442. Artichoke Salad. 65 cts. 

A : 1 jar or can French artichoke fonds, drain, and soak 

in vinegar \ an hour ; 

B : B^arnaise Sauce Fo. 332 very cold, or Mayonnaise 

Dressing No. 437. 
Drain A, sprinkle with parsley and onion minced, and serve 
covered with B on bed of lettuce. This may be garnished 
with sliced truffles. 

No. 44J. Asparagus Salad. jo cts. 

A : 3 bunches cold boiled asparagus ; 
B : French Dressing No. 436. 

Cover A with B and serve very cold. 

No. 444. Aspic JcUy Salad. ^8 cts. 

A : 1 pt. Aspic Jelly No. 308 ; 

B : 6 artichoke fonds, 3 hard-boiled eggs cat in rings, 1 

tbsp. capers, 3 tbsps. pdte de foie gras made rather soft 

with cream ; 

C : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Line moulds with A, add B in layers, alternating with A ; 
when cold, serve on lettuce, garnish with C, colored green. 

No. 445. Bean Salad. 75 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold-cooked beans mixed with 2 tbsps. tomati> 
catsup and covered with 1 tbsp. capers, surrounded by 1 
c. celery covered with 1 tsp. chopped chives ; 
B : French Dressing No. 436. 

Put A on bed of endive or lettuce, cover with B, and serve ; 
or cover 2 cs. lima beans with dressing and serve. 

No. 446. Beet Salad FarcL 28 cts. 

A : 6 large beets, boil and peel ; 

B : 1 cucumber, 1 bunch celery, 1 tomato, 3 or 3 sprigs 
154 



SALADS 

parsley, ^ c. beets chopped fine, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : French Dressing No. 436. 

Cat ofE ends of A, scoop out centre, leaving wall | inch 
thick, soak 2 hours in vinegar, drain, fill with B, pour over 
0, and serve. 

No. 44^. Bmnswicfc Salad. jj cts. 

A : 3 cs. celery, split sticks several times and cut into 1- 

inch lengths ; 1 c. pickled nasturtium seeds ; 

B : 2 hard-boiled eggs, yolks pressed through potato- 

ricer, whites cut into dice, 4 cold-boiled trnflles minced, 

1 tsp. each parsley and chives minced fine ; 

C : Trench Dressing No. 436. 

Arrange A on lettuce-leaves, garnish with B, cover with 0, 
and serve. 

No. 448. Brussels Sprouts Salad. jj cts. 

A : 1 qt. cold-boiled Brussels sprouts cut in halves ; 
B : Anchovies, stoned olives, gherkin slices, and capers ; 
C : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Marinate A in French Dressing No. 436, arrange on let- 
tuce-leaves, garnish with B, cover with C,and serve very cold. 

No. 44g. Cabtagc Salad. 75 cts. 

A : 3 cs. cabbage chopped, 1 c. celery, 1 tsp. chives 
minced, 2 drops Tabasco sauce or 1 tbsp. tomato catsup ; 
B : Boiled, French or Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mix A with B and serve on lettuce. 

No. 450. Cauliflower Salad. 75 cts. 

A : 1 cold-boiled cauliflower cut in pieces, 1 tbsp. grated 

cheese ; 

B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Arrange A on bed of watercress, cover with B. 

No. 4^1. Celery Salad. 2^ cts. 

A : 3 cs. celery cut into J-inch pieces ; 
B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

155 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. ^^2. Cheffy Salad. 20 cts. 

A : 3 cs. cherries, stoned, 1 c. celery cut in shreds ; 
B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437, nsing cherry-juice in- 
stead of vinegar and omitting onion. 
Fill cherries with peanuts, pignola nuts, or English wal- 
nuts. Arrange on bed of lettuce, cover with B. 

No. ^^3. Chestnut Salad. 28 cts. 

A :. 2 cs. boiled chestnuts, cut into slices, cover with 
grated rind 1 orange ; 
B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 ; 
C : Peeled orange cut into slices. 
Cover A with B, garnish with 0, and serve on bed of let- 
tuce. 

No. 4^4. Chicken Salad. jo cts, 

A : \\ cs. cold-boiled chicken white meat, marinate \ an 
hour in French Dressing No. 436, W cs. celery cut in 
dice ; 

B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 and a garnish of ca- 
pers, stoned olives, beets, cold-boiled eggs, and sweet red 
peppers or pimentos. 
Mix A with I of the dressing in B, arrange on bed of let- 
tuce, and cover with B. 

No. ^55. Chiffonade Salad. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. each lettuce, celery, chicory, or endive, cut in 
shreds, and 1 tbsp. each beets, pepper-grasS) tarragon, 
onion, chives, parsley, green pepper or sweet red pep- 
per, all chopped fine ; grape-fruit pulp and fresh tomsr 
toes may be added ; 
B : French Dressing No. 436. 
Mix A with B and serve. 

No. 456. Cucumber Salad, Whole or FarcL 4.0 cts. 

A : 3 cucumbers, peel and cut into halves lengthwise ; 
B : li cs. sweet-breads mixed with Cream Dressing No. 
156 



SALADS 

435, or oysters and celery mixed with Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing No. 437. 

Scoop out seeds from A, fill with B, serve on lettuce, or 
leave A whole and slice nearly through and serve cold, cov- 
ered with French Dressing No. 436, and serve with broiled 
or fried fish. 

No. 4§^. Cuctimber Jelly Salad. 20 cis. 

A : 2 cucumbers, peel and cut in slices, add 1 slice of 
onion, i tsp. salt, dash pepper, 1 pt. cold water ; 
B : 1 tbsp. gelatine dissolved in warm water ; 
C : Fresh cucumber cut in slices ; 
D : French Dressing No. 436. 

Simmer A until cucumbers are soft, add B, strain, line a 
mould with C, pour in the jelly slowly j when cold and firm, 
serve on bed of lettuce with D. 

This may be prepared when cucumbers are cheap, and 
canned, melted, and remoulded when ready for use. 



No. 458. Crab Salad. §^ cts. 

A : 3 cs. boiled crab meat from about 6 crabs boiled 20 m. ; 
B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Mix B with A and serve on lettuce, or serve in shells. 

No. 45g. Daisy Salad. 20 cts. 

A : 6 small, flat moulds of Aspic Jelly No. 208, or 6 ar- 
tichoke fonds ; 

B : 6 hard-boiled eggs, whites cut lengthwise into thin 
strips, yolks put through a potato-ricer ; 
C : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Arrange A on plates in centre of bed of lettuce cut with 

scissors into strips. Cover moulds or fonds with C, then with 

yolks of B ; arrange whites in form of petals, and serve one to 

each person. 

1S7 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 460. Egfg: Salad. jo cts. 

A : 6 cold, hard-boiled egg-yolks, mash with 2 tbsps. 
chopped chicken, veal, lamb, or tongue, 1 tbsp. melted 
butter, 3 tbsps. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
B : Whites of eggs cut in rings, 12 nasturtium blossoms ; 
C : French Dressing No. 436. 

Make A into small balls, pile them in centre of bed of white 
leaves of lettuce, pour over 0, garnish with B, and serve. 

No. 461. Italian Salad. 2^ cts. 

A : 2 cs, cold boiled potatoes, \ c. cold boiled beets, 3 

gherkins, 8 anchovies, all cut in dice, and French Dress- 

mg]Sro.436; 

Bs Aspic Jelly No. 208. 

Serve A in a ring of B. 

N'}, 462,, Lettuce, Endive EscaroKs,; m Water-cress. 10 cts. 

Mix with French Dressing No. 436 and sprinkle with 
pepper-grass. 

No. 463. Liver Salad. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. cold boiled liver, marinate J an hour in French 
Dressing No. 436, 2 es. celery or cabbage, all cut in dice; 
B: Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 or Boiled Dressing 
No. 434. 

Mix and serve on lettuce and garnish with olives. 

No. 4.64. Lobster Salad. 80 cts. 

A : 3 cs. cold boiled lobster, or use \ celery, cut into dice, 
marinate in French Dressing No. 436 half an hour; 
B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Mix A with two-thirds of B, dry and pound coral, mix with 
remainder of dressing, spread over the top, and garnish with 
the claws. Serve on bed of white lettuce. Or 

A: 2 boiled lobsters cut in rather large pieces; 
B: 3 hard-boiled egg-yolks chopped fine, 1 tsp. each 
158 



SALADS 

onion and parsley, minced fine, 1 tsp. each tarragon 
vinegar and Worcestershire sauce ; 
C : French Dressing No 436. 

Arrange A on lettuce, cover with B, pour over C, garnish 
with egg-whites and chopped olives. 

No. ^<55c Macedoine Salad. j^ cts. 

A: 3 cs. cold boiled potatoes, string beans, green peas, 
carrots, celery, and beets, all cut into dice. Mix .with 
iFiench Dressing No. 436 ; 
B: Aapie Jelly No. 208. 

Mix A and serve in a ring of B on lettuce. 

No. /f66. Manhattan Salad. J5 cts. 

A: 1 c. each of chicken, celery, and apple, marinate \ 
an hour in lemon-juice, oil, salt, and pepper, mix with 
Mayonnaise Cream Dressing No. 438; 
B : 2 hard-boiled eggs, whites chopped and yolks pressed 
through potato-ricer, 1 doz. walnut meats, 1 peeled 
orange or grape fruit in quarter sections. 

Serve A on lettuce-leaves, garnish with B. 

No. 4.6"^. Oyster Salad. ^5 cts. 

A : 1 qt. oysters, parboil in their own liquor with 1 tbsp. 

vinegar 8 m. and cut into small pieces, rejecting the 

hard muscles, marinate \ an hour in French Dressing 

No. 436; 

B: 3 hard-boiled eggs. 
Serve A on bed of lettuce, garnish with B and serve with 
2 cucumbers cut into quarters lengthwise and covered with 
Mayonnaise Cream Dressing No. 438, or mix oysters with 1 
c. celery and serve with Tartare Sauce No. 159. Or 

A: 1 qt. oysters washed thoroughly; 

B : \ tsp. each salt, whole spice and pepper-corns, 1 blade 

of mace, and \ c. cider vinegar. 
Heat and skim oyster liquor, add B, when boiling add A, 
boil until edges curl, cool, drain, and serve on bed of lettuce 

159 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

with or without dressing. This may be made in large qnan- 
tities and canned. 

No. 4.68. Onion Salad. j cts. 

A : 3 or 4 Bermuda onions, peel and cut into thin slices, 
cover with 1 tbsp. sugar and 1 tsp. salt and 1 pt. ice 
water for three hours ; 
B : French Dressing Ko. 436, omit oil, using all vinegar. 

Drain A and serve ice cold, covered with B. 

No. ^dg. Potato Salad. 10 cts. 

A : 3 cs. cold boiled potatoes cut into dice, balls, or thin 
slices, marinate \ an hour in French Dressing No. 436 
and 2 tbsps. more of vinegar ; 

B : Boiled Dressing No. 434 and 1 tbsp. each chives and 
parsley, minced, or Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437; gar- 
nish with 2 hard-boiled eggs and 6 stoned olives. 

Mix A with B and serve on lettuce. 



No. 4yo. Rice Salad. 10 cts. 

A : 2 cs. hot-boiled rice, \ tsp. each salt and paprica ; 
B : Mayonnaise Jelly Dressing No. 439, colored pale 
green ; 

C : ^ c. each celery, beets, carrots, asparagus, and green 
peas, mixed with French Dressing No. 436. 

Grease border mould with oil or butter, pour in A ; when 
cold turn out on bed of lettuce, cover with B, fill centre with 
C, and serve very cold. To boil rice see No. 371. 



No. 4'/ 1. Sardine Salad. ^5 cts. 

A : 12 boneless sardines, scald, drain, and put on ice for 
an hour ; 

B : French Dressing No. 436, 2 hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices, 6 stoned olives, and 3 gherkins, diced. 

Cover A with B. Serve on lettuce. 

160 



SALADS 



No. 4^2. Salmon Salad Moulds. 25 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold boiled salmon, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 1 tsp. 
parsley, minced, 2 drops Tabasco sauce ; mix with Boiled 
Dressing No. 434 and 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine dis- 
solved ; 
B : Cucumber Sauce No. 155. 

Mix A thoroughly, fill small moulds, place on ice for two 
or three hours, turn out on lettuce, and serve with B. 

No. 4.JJ. Scallop Salad. _^5 cts. 

A : 1 pt. scallops, soak in salted water 1 hour, drain and 
boil 5m. in acidulated boiling water, plunge in ice-water, 
cut in thin slices, 1 c. celery and French Dressing No. 
436, or Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 ; 
B : 1 tbsp. each chives, tarragon, gherkins, and olives, 
chopped fine, or capers, boiled eggs, and beets. 

Mix A thoroughly, garnish with B, and serve. 

No. 4J4. Shad-roc Salad. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 pair roe, boil h hour in salted, acidulated water, 
plunge in ice-water, drain, skin, and cut into thin slices 
with silver knife, add French Dressing No. 436, or May- 
onnaise Dressing No. 437 ; 
B : 1 cucumber cut in cubes, 1 tsp. chives, minced. 

Mix A, garnish with B, and serve on lettuce. 

No. ^75. Shrimp Salad. 50 cts. 

A : 1 qt. shrimps, marinate h hour in French Dressing 
No. 436, mix with Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437 ; 
B : 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 lemon sliced, 6 Pim Olas. 
These are olives stuffed with sweet red pepper, and may 
be bought for sixty cents a jar. 

Serve A on water-cress and garnish with B. 

161 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 4^6. Spinach Salad. 2£ cts. 

A : 1 peck spinach, boil, season, and mould in 6 claret- 
glasses ; 

B : 6 pieces cold-boiled ham or tongue ; 
C : French Dressing No. 436. 

Put B on lettuce-leaves, turn out one of A on each, cover 
with C, and garnish with cold-boiled eggs cut in fancy shapes. 

No. 4yy. String-bean Salad. i8 cts. 

A : 1 qt. string-beans, boil and drain, marinate in cold, 

spiced vinegar 1 hour ; 

B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Drain A, cover with B, and serve on lettuce. 

No. 4.y8. Sweetbread Salad. po cts. 

A : 1 lb. blanched sweetbreads, cut into small pieces or 

left in individual pieces ; 

B : 3 small cucumbers cut into quarters and sliced, or 

1 c. celery, diced ; 

C : Mayonnaise Cream Dressing No. 438 ; or 

D : Mayonnaise Jelly Dressing No. 439. 

Mix A with B, cover with C, or if large pieces cover with D. 
Serve on lettuce and garnish with sliced truffles. 

No. 4yg. Tomato Salad Farci. lo cts. 

Method. 

Scald 6 tomatoes, skin, and place on ice for 3 or 3 hours, 
scoop out the inside, dust with pepper, salt, cayenne, or pap- 
rica, and fill with any of the following salads : Cabbage, cel- 
ery, chicken, cucumbers, halibut, scallops, shrimps, sweet- 
breads, or water-cress, or fill tomatoes with cream whipped 
very stiff, mixed with lemon-juice and cucumbers or English 
walnuts. Garnish with sprinkling of green pepper, tarragon, 
or chives minced very fine. 

When tomatoes are in season they may be canned whole by 

102 



SALADS 

the Mlowing method : Select small, firm, perfectly fresh 
tomatoes, wash but do not peel, put them in glass jars with 
covers porcelain lined and cone-shaped like inverted cups. 
Place jars in the oven until both tomatoes and jars are very 
hot, fill each jar with boiling water, put on tops, and seal 
at once. When ready to use, the skin will peel off easily, 
and they will be firm and fresh. 

No. ^fSo. Tomato Salad Moulds, Frozen. 75 cts. 

A : 1 can tomatoes, \ tsp. each paprica, cloves, sugar, 

and 1 tsp. lemon-juice ; 

B : Mayonnaise Jelly No. 439. 

Strain A into moulds, freeze, and serve covered with B. 

No. 481, Tomato Jelly Salad. 10 cts. 

A : J can tomatoes, 2 cloves, i bay-leaf, \ tsp. each salt 
and paprica, 1 tsp. granulated gelatine dissolved in i c. 

B : Ce'lery Salad No. 451. 
Boil A 15 m., strain into a border-mould, or tomato-shaped 
individual moulds ; when cold, turn out on lettuce, garnish 
with C, and serve. 

No. 482. Vegetable Salad in Jelly. 25 cts. 

A : 2h cs. cold boiled vegetables cut in dice or fancy 
shapes ; 

B : 1 c. water, J c. sugar, cook until boiling, add i box 
gelatine soaked in i c. water. 

Put A in small moulds, pour in B ; when cold and firm 
serve on lettuce-leaves with spoonful of green mayonnaise on 
each. 

No. 483. Vegetable Oyster Salad. 20 cts. 

A : 3 or 3 bunches oyster-plant or salsify, cover with 
boiling water seasoned with salt, vinegar, parsley, onion, 
and bay-leaf ; 

163 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437, or French Dressing 

No. 436. 
Boil A nntil tender, cut in small pieces, marinate i an 
hour, when cold serve on water-cress, cover with B, garnish 
with chopped parsley and trimmed radishes. 

No. 484. Violet Salad. po c£s. 

A : 2 tbsps. celery heart, 1 tbsp. parsley, 1 tsp. chives 

all minced fine ; 

B : 2 doz. fresh violet petals, 1 tbsp. white or red wine, 

and French Dressing No. 436 ; 

C : 2 heads of white endive or chicory. 

Mix A with B, pour over C, garnish with fresh violets, and 
serve. 

No. 48 J. 'Waldoff Salad. 4^ cts. 

A : 3 cs. celery, cut fine, 1 doz. walnut meats, blanched 

and chopped fine, grated rind 1 orange ; 

B : 6 slices tart apple, J inch thick, peeled and cored, or 

6 fine red apples with inside scooped out, making cups 

of them, or 1 c. apples cut in dice ; 

C : Mayonnaise Jelly No. 439 ; or 

D : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Mix A with two-thirds of C, color remainder of pale 
green, cover slices of apple, lay them on white lettuce leaves, 
pile A in a pyramid ; or fill the apple cups with A mixed '^ith 
D, or mix with the apple and cover with D. 

No. 4S6. Water-cfess and Apple Salad. 73 cts. 

A : 2 bunches water-cress, crisp and dry, 1 c. sour apples, 

cut in thin slices ; 

B : French Dressing No. 436. 

Cover A with B and serve with roast duck. 

No. 48 J. Yellow Egfgf Tomato Salad. 10 cts. 

A : 1 qt. small yellow egg tomatoes, scald, peel, and put 
on ice ; 

B : Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 
164 



SALADS 

Pile A on dish of green lettuce, cover with B, and garnish 
with slices of cncnmber. 



FRUIT SALADS 

Method. 

Cover tart apples and celery cut into dice with lemon- 
juice to keep from discoloring. Mix with dressing and serve 
at once. For all fruit salads, omit onion in dressings and 
nse lemon- juice instead of vinegar. 

No. 488. Apple Salad. 12 cts. 

A : 3 cs. tart apples, 1 c. celery, French Dressing No. 436. 
Mix A and serve on lettuce. 

No. /f8g. Apple, Celery, and Eng:Iish Walnut or 20 cts. 
Chestnut Salad. 

A : li cs. apples, 1 c. celery, \ c. English walnuts or 
boiled chestnuts cut in slices. Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 
No. 438. 

Mix A, serve on pepper-grass, water-cress, or lettuce. 

No. ^go. Apple and Grape Fruit Salad. 2^ cts. 

A : 2 cs. apples, pulp 1 grape fruit broken into small 
pieces, French Dressing No. 436. 

Mix A and serve on lettuce, garnish with white grapes 
and pignolia nuts. 

No. /fgi. Grape Fruit Salad. 2^ cts^ 

A : 3 large grape fruit, peel and cut into quarters, 1 c. 
English walnuts ; 

B : French Dressing No. 436 or Mayonnaise Dressing No. 
437. 
Arrange A on lettuce, cover with B, garnish with Malaga 
grapes. 

165 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. ^g2. Orange Salad. jo cts. 

A : 3 large sour oranges, peel and cut into pieces ; 

B : 1 tbsp. each chevril, tarragon leaves, tarragon vinegar, 

olive oil, and brandy. 

Arrange A on bed of pepper-grass, pour over B, set on ice 
for 1 hour, and serve with wild duck. 

JVo. ^gj. Pineapple and Celery. jo cts. 

A : 2 cs. shredded pineapple, 1 c. celery, 1 pimento or 
sweet red pepper, cut into dice, mix with Mayonnaise 
Cream Dressing No. 438. 

Serve ice cold on lettuce, garnish with nut-meats, or serve 
in cups made of apples peeled and scooped out. See No. 485. 



16S 




Eggs or cheese dishes, hot or cold, are often used as 
entrees at luncheons, and eggs are usually served 
as a separate course. A delicious friend of a cream 
cheese is a currant preserve put up in tiny glass jars, 
made in France, and called after the name of the 
place. Bar le Due. These jars are always passed on 
a tray, following the cheese, each guest taking a tea- 
spoonful. Of course this should not be served with 
hot-cheese mixtures, which are sometimes served at 
dinners and luncheons, but the Bar le Due and cream 
cheese are suitable for both dinners and luncheons. 
Pulled bread, toasted wafers, crouton or bread-sticks 
are always served with this course. 

To clear the table for dessert, everything in front of 
each guest, except the glasses, should be removed; 
then take everything else from the table, leaving only 
the nuts and bon-bons, the decorations and illumina- 
tions. If there are any crumbs, take a crumb-scraper 
or napkin and quietly dust every vestige into a plate. 
This is rarely necessary at a formal meal, and should 
be avoided if possible. If it is the informal meal re- 
move platters and large dishes first, then the carving 
or tray napkin, if one be used, fold over from the ends 
and take up carefully, then proceed as for the for- 
mal dinner. Fill goblets with water and pour wine. 
When everything is in readiness bring in the dessert. 

167 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



EGGS 

No. /f.g/f.. Anchovy Egfgs. 22 cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut into halves, mash yolks with 
1 tbsp. each melted butter, anchovy paste, and chopped 
ham, add \ tsp. paprica ; 
B : Caper Sauce No. 287. 

Pill whites with yolk mixture, press together, and serve 
with B poured over ; or serve cold with French Dressing No. 
436. 

No. ^g£. HggSt with Asparagus Tips. 2j cts. 

A : 6 eggs, poach in small muffin rings ; 
B : White Sauce No. 229, made with cream. 
C : 1 c. asparagus tips 1 inch long. 

Pour B over round slices of toast or into ramekin dishes, 
add A, arrange C around edge, and serve very hot, or put 
thin slices of broiled ham under the eggs, omit B, and cover 
eggs with Butter Sauce No. 334. 

No. ^g6. Eggs Curried with Green Peas. 12 cts. 

A : 6 hard boiled eggs, cut in quarters lengthwise ; 

B : Curry Sauce No. 243 ; 

C : Puree of Green Peas No. 336. 

Cover A with B, surround C, and serve. 



No. 4gy. Egg Croquettes. 2J cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled eggs cut in halves ; 
B : 1 tbsp. melted butter, ^ c. ham minced fine, 1 tsp. 
parsley, | tsp. onion-juice, ^ tsp. salt and dash cayenne ; 
C : Hollandaise Sauce No. 245. 

Mash yolks smooth with B, fill whites, dip edges in beaten 
egg, press together, crumb, egg and crumb, fry in hot fat, 
and serve with C. 

168 



EGGS AND CHEESE 



No. 4g8. Eggs au Gratin. /^ cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, mix yolks with 1 
tbsp. melted butter, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ tsp. onion- 
juice, 1 tsp. parsley ; 

B : White Sauce No. 229, made with cream ; 
C : 3 tbsps. grated cheese. 

Fill whites with yolk mixture, place in shallow dish, small 
end down, cover with B, sprinkle with C, and brown in the 
oven. 

No. ^gg. Egg in Rolls. 2^ cts. 

A : 6 small French rolls, scrape out inside, leaving cups, 

brush with melted butter, put in oven until hot ; 

B : 6 eggs, slightly beaten, ^ c. cream, 2 tbsps. grated 

cheese, J tsp. each salt, paprica, and mustard ; or, 

C : 6 hard-boiled eggs, chopped and mixed with White 

Sauce No. 339. 

Fill A with B or 0, put in oven until eggs are cooked. Serve 
at once. 

No. ^00. Eggs, Scalloped with Cheese. 22 cts. 

A : 6 cold boiled eggs, cut in slices, 1 c. grated cheese ; 
B : White Sauce No. 339, using 1 tbsp. less flour, add 1 
tsp. mustard. 

Put A in buttered baking-dish in layers, add B, cover with 
browned crumbs and bake 15 m. 



No. §01. Eggs on Toast. 20 cts. 

A: 6 hard-boiled eggs, whites chopped, yolks mashed 
smooth, with \ tsp. each salt, paprica, and mustard, 1 
tsp. lemon-juice ; 
B : White Sauce No. 239, made with cream. 

Mix whites with C, cover 6 round slices toast, sprinkle 
with yolks pressed through potato-ricer. 

169 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. ^02. Omelettes. 75 /<? ^o cts. 

To Saute. 

A : 3 eggs, beaten until thick and foamy, add \ tsp. salt, 
dash pepper, 1 tsp. butter, or beat 3 egg-yolks until 
light, add 2 tbsps. cream, \ tsp. salt, and dash pepper ; 
beat whites very stiff and fold in. 

Turn A into clean, smooth, hot pan — a pan should be kept 
for this purpose only — with 1 tsp. boiling butter, shake gently 
and draw eggs from side of pan so that they will all cook 
evenly, cut across top when golden-brown, fold over, and 
serve. Make 2 or 3 omelettes for 6 people. 

With Cheese : Add 2 tbsps. grated cheese before folding. 

With Chicken-Iivefs : Add 3 livers, boiled and cut in 
small pieces, and mixed with sauce made of 1 tbsp. butter, 
browned with 1 of flour, \ c. liver gravy, dash salt and pep- 
per. Fold in. 

With Kidneys : 1 c. kidney, sliced and sauted 5 m. in 1 
tbsp. butter ; mix with sauce made of 1 tbsp. flour, browned, 
1 of vinegar, 1 of chopped parsley, \ c. stock. Fold in. 

With Fine Herbs: 1 tsp. onion, minced and sauted in 

1 tbsp. butter, add 3 or 3 mushrooms, and 2 truffles, 
chopped, dash salt and pepper, 1 tbsp. parsley, minced, and 

2 tbsps. cream. Fold in. 

With Oysters : 1 c. oysters, parboil, drain, and chop fine, 
rejecting hard muscles, mix with \ c. cream and 1 egg-yolk, 
season with dash salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 

To Bake. 

A : 7 eggs, well beaten ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, \ tsp. salt, 2 cs. boiling 

milk. 

Boil B 1 m., add slowly to A, pour into buttered earthen 
dish and bake 20 m. Serve at once. 

170 



EGGS AND CHEESE 



CHEESE 



No. £Oj. Cheese Boulettes, Hot. /^ cts. 

A : 1^ cs. dairy cheese, 1 tbsp. flonr, \ tsp. salt, dash 
cayenne, 1 tsp. Parmesan cheese ; 
B : 3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff. 

Mix A, fold in B, form into small balls, roll in fine bread- 
crumbs, fry in hot fat. 



No. §o^. Cheese, Cfeamed, Cold. 20 cts. 

A : i of a Philadelphia cream-cheese, J lb. Rochefort, 
dash salt and cayenne, and enough thick cream or sherry 
to make soft and smooth. 

Press A through potato-ricer in centre of glass dish, or 
mould in fancy shapes. Serve with Pulled Bread No. 734. 



No. 505. Cream-cheese Balls, Cold. t£ cts. 

A : Cream cheese (Neufchatel or Philadelphia), 1 tbsp. 
chives and 1 of parsley, minced. 

Roll A into small balls. Serve in centre of lettuce-salad, 
garnish with radishes cut in slices or strips. These may be 
delicately colored with coloring-paste, the chives and parsley 
omitted, and served with Bar le Due. 



No. ^06. Cheese Charlottes, Cold. 2^ cts. 

A ; -J of a Philadelphia cream-cheese, 1 tbsp. Rochefort, 
mash until smooth, add J tsp. salt, 1 c. whipped cream, 
and 2 tsps. dissolved gelatine ; 
B : 6 Swedish Timbale Cases No. 224. 

Fill B with A, sprinkle with Parmesan. When perfectly 
cold serve with Bar le Due and pulled bread. 

171 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. ^O^. Cheese Croquettes, Hot. i6 cts. 

A : 1 c. dairy cheese cat in dice, 1 tbsp. Parmesan ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter, 4 tbsps. flour, cook until smooth, add 
f c. milk, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, ^ tsp. mustard ; 
C : 2 egg-yolks. 

Cook B, add A, when melted add C, stir and spread in 
shallow pans. When cold, cut in oblong squares or crescents ; 
crumb, egg and crumb and fry in hot fat, drain on brown 
paper, and serve. 1 chopped truffle may be added to the 
mixture if desired. 

No. ^o8. Cheese, in Croustades. 12 cts. 

A : 4 tbsps. grated cheese, 2 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. cream 

or milk, \ tsp. each paprica, mustard, and salt ; 

B : 6 heart-shaped croustades (see Bread Croustades No. 

222). 

Fill B with A, and brown in oven ; or fit on cover of bread, 
egg and crumb and fry in hot fat. 



No. jop. Cheese, Deviled, Cold. // cts. 

A : i lb. rich dairy cheese, cream with 1 tbsp. butter un- 
til very light, add 2 tbsps. vinegar, dash cayenne, 1 tsp. 
sugar, 1 tsp. mustard, 1 tsp. Worcestershire Sauce. 

Beat A until light, spread on hot, toasted crackers, and 
serve at once. 

No. ^10. Cheese, Scalloped, Hot. 25 cts. 

A : f lb. dairy-cheese cut in thin slices ; 

B : 2 eggs, beaten, h tsp. each salt and mustard, dash 

cayenne, 1 tbsp. butter, and 1 c. cream ; 

C : Bread-slices, buttered and cut into large cubes. 

Line baking-dish with C, add A, mixed with B ; bake \ 
an hour and serve at once. 

172 



EGGS AND CHEESE 



No. 511. Cheese Souffl^ Hot. ly cts. 

A : 1 c. grated cheese, 1 c. hot milk or cream, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 3 egg-yolks, beaten, \ c. soft bread-cmmbs, J tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne ; 
B : Whites, beaten yery stiff. 

Cook A 3 m., fold in B, fill sonffl^ dishes, bake in moder- 
ate oven about 15 m. 



W3 




This department should include the three following 
sections, as a dish from any one of the three would 
be a sufficient dessert for the ordinary dinner or 
luncheon. At the formal dinner a hot dessert may 
be followed by a frozen cream or ice, but the dinner 
or luncheon is quite long enough with one dessert. 
The cold desserts, which are more acceptable, usually, 
may be accompanied by cakes of the daintiest kind, 
though this is almost superfluous, and it is in quite 
as good taste to leave them out. Dessert at formal 
dinners is either served from the butler's pantry or 
is placed on the table before the hostess, and afterward 
passed. Forks should be used whenever it is possible, 
always with frozen pudding or cream. Dessert plates 
should be small and choice. The proper fork and 
spoon for dessert should be placed at the right and 
left just before the course is served. When at an in-l 
formal dinner every one has finished, remove the 
platter or dish first, if it has been served by the 
hostess, then remove the plates from the right just 
as you have all the others. If cheese has not been in 
the menu it may now be served 
with wafers. Now serve coffee 
and place the finger bowls ac- 
cording to directions in Coffees 

and Cordials. 

171 




DESSERTS 



COLD DESSERTS 

1*70. 512. Bavarian Cream. jo to £0 cts. 

A : 3 cs. milk or thin cream ; 

B : \ box or 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine, dissolved in J c. 

cold water ; 

C : 2 egg-yolks, slightly beaten, \ c. sugar, dash salt ; 

D : 1 c. cream whipped very stiff, egg-whites beaten 

stiff. 

Scald A, pour slowly over 0, return to double boiler, add 
B, stir until mixture coats the spoon, strain this custard, 
and when cold add D and flavoring, fill moulds, and leave on 
ice 3 hours. Serve with Boiled Custard No. 585, whipped 
cream, or canned fruit. 

With Almonds or Hazel-nuts: 1 e. almonds or hazel-nuts, 
pound fine, brown slightly, add to custard with \ tsp. each 
of almond extract and rose water, or add nuts to A, simmer 
25 m., and strain ; this gives the flavor of nuts without the 
thickness. 

With Bananas : Peel and mash 4 bananas, add juice of 1 
orange, press through a sieve and add to custard ; this may 
be moulded in alternate layers with rum jelly. 

With Chocolate: Add \ c. grated chocolate and small 
stick cinnamon to A, and flavor with 1 tsp. vanilla. 

With Coffee : Add \ c. very strong coffee to A, and use a 
trifle more gelatine. 

With Macaroons: Add 1 c. pounded macaroons, use less 
gelatine; line mould with macaroons, lady-fingers and 
candied cherries. 

With Pineapple or Strawberries: Add 1 c. pineapple pulp 
and juice of half a lemon, or 1 c. strawberries mashed and a 
little more sugar to custard. 

175 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. 5/j. Chariotte Rosse. 2^ to 40 cts. 

A : 1 pt. cream, whipped very stiff, ^ c. powdered sugar, 
whites of 3 eggs, beaten very stifE, and flavoring. 

Line a mould with lady-fingers or sponge-cake, fill with A, 
and place on ice 1 hour. 

With Brandy! Flavor A with 1 tbsp. brandy, 1 tsp. sherry, 
and 1 of vanilla. 

With Caramel: Use caramel sugar instead of powdered 
sugar. 

With Coffee : Add \ c. very strong black coffee to A. 

With French Froit: Add i doz. marshmallows, chopped 
fine, 1 doz. chopped raisins, ^ doz. blanched almonds, \ doz. 
English walnut meats, 1 tbsp. each citron, candied cherries, 
candied orange peel and angelica, add \ tsp. each bitter 
almond, and vanilla, and 1 tsp. brandy to A. 

With Macaroons : Add 1 c. finely pounded macaroons, 1 
tsp. vanilla, and \ tsp. bitter almond to A. 

With Maraschino ; Add 1 c. Maraschino cherries, and 3 
tbsps. of the liquor to A. 

With Pineapple or Strawberries : Add 1 c. pineapple pulp 
and juice and grated rind of half a lemon, or 3 cs. whole straw- 
berries and more sugar to A. 

With Violets : Add grated rind of 1 orange, 1 tbsp. Cr^me 
Yvette cordial, \ tsp. rose extract to A, color violet with Bur- 
nett's coloring-paste, and garnish with fresh violets. 

No. ^14. Cabinet Pudding. 40 cts. 

A : Boiled Custard No. 585, add 1 tbsp. gelatine dis- 
solved, 1 tbsp. brandy or sherry, 1 tsp. vanilla ; 
B : ^ c. candied cherries, J c. each of angelica, orange 
peel, and shredded almonds, or currants and raisins ; 
176 



DESSERTS 

C : J lb. lady-fingers or stale sponge-cake slices and 
macaroons. 

Line a mould in layers with B, then with A, slightly cool, 
then with C, add remainder of A. Serve very cold, garnished 
with candied cherries or currant jelly and with Whipped 
Cream Sauce No. 597. 

No. §l§. Caramel Custard. jo cts. 

A : 2 cs. boiling milk, add to 3 eggs slightly beaten with 
i c. sugar browned in a sauce-pan, dash salt, i tsp. butter, 
1 tsp. vanilla ; 
B : Caramel Sauce No. 586. 
Fill moulds with A, bake in pan of hot water until firm, 
when cold turn out on plates and serve with B. 

No. £l6. Chestnuts with Coffee Sauce. jo cts. 

A : 1 q[t. chestnuts blanched, ^ c. sugar, 1 c. water, 3- 
inch stick cinnamon ; 

B : J 0. strong, black, hot coffee, poured over 2 beaten 
eggs. 
Cook A until tender, add B, and serve when cold. 

No. §iy. Chestnut Cream. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 pt. boiled chestnuts, mashed smooth, with grated 
rind of 1 lemon, add to Boiled Custard No. 585, and 
1 tsp. lemon- juice and grating of nutmeg ; 
B : ^ c, cream, whipped stiff. 
Mix A, turn into sherbet-glasses ; when cold, cover with 
B and serve. 

No. £j8. Chestnuts, with Whipped Cream. ^o cts. 

A : 1 qt. chestnuts, boiled and mashed, 3 tbsps. pow- 
dered sugar, dash salt, 3 tbsps. cream, 1 tsp. vanilla, 4 
tbsps. sherry ; 

B : 1 c. cream, whipped stiff, 2 tbsps. powdered sugar, 2 
of Maraschino or sherry, and | tsp. vanilla. 
Press A into a border-mould ; when cold, turn out, garnish 
with candied fruit, fill centre with B, and serve. 

177 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 5/p. Chetry Tapioca. 18 cts. 

A : 1 c. pearl tapioca, soak in 2 cs. cold water until water 

is absorbed ; 

B : 1 pt. canned cherries ; 

C : Whipped Cream Sauce No. 597. 

Cook A with syrup from B i an hour, add cherries, turn 
into mould ; when cold serve with C. 

No. ^20. Cocoanot Timbales. 75 cts. 

A : 1 pt. milk, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, 3 tbsps. corn- 
starch dissolved in cold milk, \ tsp. salt ; 
B : 1 c. cocoanut, whites of 3 eggs, beaten stif[ ; 
C : Boiled Custard No. 585. 

Boil A 10 m., add B, turn into moulds ; when cold, serve 
with C. 

No. ^21. Date Souffle. 18 cts. 

A : J lb. dates, stoned, chopped, and cooked in \ c. boil- 
ing water ; 

B : 5 egg-whites, beaten stiff, \ c. sugar, 1 tbsp. lemon- 
juice, and dash salt ; 
C : Boiled Custard No. 585, or whipped cream. 

Mash A until smooth, add B, pour in buttered dish, bake 
25 m., and serve cold with C. 

No. 522. Froit Charlotte. 12 cts. 

A : \ box gelatine soaked and dissolved in 1 c. water ; 

B : 1 c. apple-pulp, juice of 1 lemon, or orange-pulp and 

juice, or peach-pulp and 1 tsp. bitter almond extract, or 

bananas and lemon-juice, and f c. sugar ; 

C : 1 c. cream whipped, or whites of 3 eggs beaten very 

stiff; 

D : Boiled Custard No. 585. 

Add A to B, when cool add C, turn into moulds, and serve 
with D. 

178 



DESSERTS 



N^o. 523. Ffuit Macedoine. 70 cts. 

A : ^ c. orange- jnice, \ c. sherry, 3 tbsps. Maraschino or 
rum, 4 tbsps. powdered sugar ; 

B : 4 oranges, h lb. Malaga grapes, 3 bananas, 1 grape- 
fruit arranged in layers and small squares wine jelly ; or 

A : 2 oranges, 1 grape-fruit, 2 tart apples cut in dice, \ 
can imported brandied cherries, same of Weisbaden 
strawberries or fresh strawberries ; 
B : 2 tbsps. each rum. Maraschino, and powdered sugar. 

Add A to B and serve very cold. A very pretty way is 
to serve this on a foundation of Lemon Ice No. 639. 



No. 524. Jellies. 75 to 60 cts. 

A : i box gelatine soaked in i cup cold water ; 
B : 1 c. sugar, 2 cs. boiling water. 

Cook B to a syrup, add A and flavoring, strain through 
cloth into wet moulds. 

With Lemons: Add juice of 3 lemons and grated rind 
of 1 to A. Serve with Boiled Custard No. 585. 

With Oranges: Add 1 c. orange- juice and juice of 1 
lemon to A. 

With Wine: Add juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon, 2 tbsps. 
of brandy, 1 tbsp. Maraschino, and i c. sherry or rum, or 
omit brandy. Maraschino, sherry, or rum, and add 1 c. cham- 
pagne or sauterne when cold. Stir in beaten white and 
crushed shell of 1 egg ; when boiling, skim and strain. Thia 
may be moulded in champagne-glasses, leaving ^-inch space 
at the top ; fill this with the whip from cream mixed with 
beaten white of 1 egg, and serve in the glasses. 

Russian Jelly is made by adding whites of eggs to plain 
jelly and beating until cold with Dover egg-beater. 

179 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



^*^- 5^5- Prune Jelly. 2J cts, 

A : i c. prunes stewed with \ c. sugar ; 

B : \ box gelatine, dissolved in \ c. cold water. Juice 1 

lemon, 2 tbsps. sherry, and dash salt ; 

C : 1 doz English walnut meats ; 

D : Boiled Custard No. 585. 

When cold remove stones from A, add 2 cs. of the liquor 
to B, pour in a mould ; when partly set add the prunes and 
C ; when cold turn out and serve with D. 

No. £26. Sago Jelly. 20 cts. 

A : i c. sago, \ stick cinnamon, boil until clear, and thick, 
add i c. citron, shredded fine, ^ c. almonds chopped fine, 
\ c. red raspberry jelly, \ c. currant jelly, \ c. granu- 
lated sugar, 1 tbsp. sherry ; 
B : Whipped Cream Sauce No. 597. 

Remove cinnamon from A, fill moulds ; when cold, serve 
with B. 

No. 5^7. Russian Fruit Jelly. 18 cts. 

Add 1 c. grape-juice and juice of 1 lemon and whites 3 eggs 
to plain jelly, or omit grape-juice and use juice 3 lemons ; 
beat until stiff and pour into moulds. Serve with Boiled 
Custard No. 585. 

No. 528. Wine Jelly Macedoine. jo cts. 

A : Wine Jelly No. 524 ; 

B : J c. each almonds, English walnuts, candied fruits, 

white grapes, and bananas. 

Line a mould with A, then alternate with layers of B. 

No. §2g. "Wine or Orange Jelly en Surprise. j£ cts. 

A : Wine Jelly No. 524 ; 

B : ^ c. pistachio nuts, or pignolia nuts, and blanched 
almonds, shredded ; 

C : Boiled Custard No. 585, made with 1 tbsp. dissolved 
180 



DESSERTS 

gelatine, ^ c. each candied fruits, chopped, and macaroons, 
1 tbsp. sherry, and 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Make i of A, line a mould with B, pour in enough jelly 
to hold them in place, put a bowl in centre of mould, fill 
space between with jelly ; when cold and firm remove bowl 
by filling with hot water for an instant. Fill the space with 
0, which must be cold, but not set ; place on ice for 2 hours 
and serve ; or 

Line mould with orange or tangerine quarters, fill with Or- 
ange Jelly No. 524, put bowl in centre. When cold fill cen- 
tre with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with orange 
syrup. A little dissolved gelatine may be added to whipped 
cream. 

•^^' SJ^' Lemon Cream. 2J cts. 

A : 4 egg-yolks, beaten, with 5 tbsps. sugar, juice and 
grated rind 1 lemon, 3 tbsps. hot water ; 
B : Whites beaten stiff with 3 tbsps. sugar ; 
: 12 lady-fingers. 

Line dish with C, sprinkle with sherry ; cook A until thick, 
fold in B, pour in dish, and serve cold. 

N^O. 531. Macaroon Cream. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 doz. macaroons, pat in glass dish, sprinkle with 2 
tbsps. sherry ; 

B : 2 cs. cream or milk, \ c. loaf-sugar rubbed with lemon- 
rind; 
C : 2 tbsps. arrowroot, dissolved in a little cold milk. 

Cook B, add C, simmer 15 m., cool, and pour over A. 

No. 532. Peach Tapioca. 24 cts. 

A : 1 can peaches, drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and blanched almonds, shredded ; 

B : 1 c. tapioca, soak 1 hour in cold water and drain, 
add \ c. powdered sugar, \ tsp. salt, and enough boiling 
water with peach syrup to make 3 cs. Cook until clear ; 
: Whipped Cream Sauce No. 597. 
181 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Line monld with A, pour in B, bake 30 m., cool, and serve 
with 0. 

^o- 533' Peach Trifle 23 cts. 

A : 13 lady-fingers or slices sponge-cake, pnt in glass 

dish and sprinkle with sherry ; 

B : 6 peaches peeled and cut in halves, 2 tbsps. powdered 

sugar, kernels of peach-pits, chopped ; 

C : 1 c. whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 

hitter almond. 

Put B in dish over A, cover with C, serve cold. 

I\fo. 5J^. Rice and Apple Pudding. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. hot hoiled or steamed rice, 2 os. hot milk, 3 egg- 
yolks, beaten, 1 tsp. butter, i c. raisins, 1 tsp. flavoring ; 
B : 6 small tart apples, peel and core nearly through ; 
C : 6 tbsps. fruit jelly ; 
D : Meringue from egg-whites. 

Pnt B in baking-dish, mix A and pour around, bake until 
apples are tender, when cold flll apples with 0, cover with D, 
brown slightly in the oven, and serve cold. 

•^'^- 535' ^^ Mould. 22 cts. 

A : 1 c. rice, boiled in 1 qt. water with ^ tsp. salt, 20 m., 
drain, and add 2 cs. milk, simmer until milk is absorbed ; 
B : 1 c. scraped maple sugar ; 
C : 2 cs. cream. 

Turn A into a monld, when cold turn out on dish, spread 
with B, and serve with poured around. 

No. §j6. Rice Puddingf, Frozen. /j cts. 

A : 1 c. rice boiled in milk, add ^ c. sugar, 1 tbsp. flavor- 
ing, dash salt ; 
B : 1 c. whipped cream. 

Cook A until thoroughly done, cool, add B, pour in mould, 
pack in ice, and salt 3 hours. Serve with whipped Cream 
Sauce No. 597. 

182 



DESSERTS 



^^- 537' ^" Podding:, Supr&ne. 26 cts. 

A : 2 cs. hot boiled rice, drain and add to \ box gelatine 

dissolved in \ c. water ; 

B : 1 0. whipped cream, 2 tsps. vanilla, 2 tbsps. sugar ; 

C : 3 figs, 3 tbsps. preserved ginger, cut in small pieces, 

cover with \ c. sherry ; 

D : i c. candied cherries, \ c. angelica, cut in thin slices ; 

E : Whipped Cream Sauce, No. 597, or Fruit Sauce No. 

603. 

Stir A until cool, add B, then add C, turn into a mould, 
place A on ice 2 hours, turn from mould, garnish with D, and 
serve with E poured around. 

No. §j8. Shewy Cream. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 c. sherry, J box gelatine dissolved in J c. water, f 

c. confectioner's sugar ; 

B : 2 cs. cream, whipped very stiff. 
Mix A, strain and add B, pour into mould and put on ice 
for 2 or 3 hours, stir until nearly set. Serve with lady- 
fingers. 

No. 5J'p. Strawberries en Surprise. ^o cts. 

A : 1 qt. large strawberries, J c. powdered sugar, and J 
c. Maraschino, Chartreuse or sherry, mix lightly ; 
B : 1 c. whipped cream ; 
C : J c. whipped cream, colored pink ; 
D : 6 paper cases. 
Fill D with A, cover with B, garnish with 0, put through 
a pastry tube, set on ice 1 hour. 

PASTRY 

Method. 

All utensils and materials should be very cold. A marble 
slab, a glass rolling-pin, and hands as clean as those of the 
modern surgeon are necessities. Successful pastry can only 
be made with clean, cold utensils and dainty fingers. 

183 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. £^0. Plain Paste. /J cts. 

A : 3 cs. sifted pastry flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1 c. lard ; 

B : Ice water ; 

C : 2 tbsps. butter. 

Chop A with knife until in small crumbs, put in ice-box 
for several hours, then add enough B to make a soft dough, 
roll out, spread with C, roll again, and place on ice until ready 
to use. 

No. £41. Poff Paste. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. butter ; 

B : 2 cs. pastry flour ; 

C : Ice water. 

Wash A thoroughly, reserve 2 tbsps., shape remainder into 
round cake h inch thick, on floured board. Work the 3 tbsps. 
butter into B with tips of fingers, adding enough C to moisten 
into dough. Knead on floured board 1 m., cover with napkin, 
place in pan on ice 10 m., roll into oblong square, J inch 
thick, spread A on lower half, cover with upper half, press 
edges together, fold right side of paste over and left side 
under, cover and chill 5 m., turn half way round, roll J inch 
thick, dredge board with flour to prevent sticking. Fold 
from each side, chill again 5 m. Eepeat twice, turning half 
way round each time, fold from ends to centre, making 3 
layers, put between pans of ice covered with napkin, do not 
let paste touch ice When thoroughly chilled it is ready to 
roll out. 

Bouchees : Roll paste J inch thick, cool, cut with small 
round cutter, cool again, put on baking-sheet, brush with 
white of egg, cut with cutter a size smaller, not quite through ; 
this should be smooth and hot, cut 3 lines in this cover, 
bake 20 minutes in hot oven, remove centres, take out pastry 
underneath, fill with fine smooth mixtures of either meat, 
game, poultry, or sweets. Replace covers and serve hot. 

184 



DESSERTS 

Pates: Roll paste J inch thick or less, cool, cut with 
round cutter, then with smaller cutter cut rings, moisten 
edges of p4t6s, put on rings, brush with egg, cool, and 
bake 25 minutes. 

Tartlets: Roll paste J inch thick or less, cut in small 
rounds, squares, or diamonds, put on rim, cool, bake, and fill 
with sweet mixtures, or line small saucers with paste, put on 
rim, bake, cool, slip from saucers, and fill with mixtures. 

Vol au Vents : Roll paste J inch thick, cut out in one large 
round or oval piece, fit on a rim ^ an inch wide and f of an 
inch deep, chill, and bake, or fit pastry to vol au vent mould, 
bake, remove mould, it will open with a hinge, or cover a 
small basin with paste, prick and bake, slip from basin, and 
bake cover to fit. Fill vol au vent with savory or sweet mixt- 
ures, and serve hot. 

No. ^/f2. Apple Pie, with Whipped Cream. 20 cts. 

A : 6 tart apples, peel, core and cut into halves ; 

B : 3 tbsps. sugar, 1 tsp. butter in bits, \ tsp. cinnamon 

or dash nutmeg and cloves ; 

C : 1 c. whipped cream. 

Line pie tin with Plain Paste No. 540, fill with A, sprinkle 
with B, bake until apples are soft, cover with C, and serve. 

No. £43. Crab-appic Pie. i^ cts. 

A : 3 cs. crab-apples, core and cut into slices but do not 
peel. 
Make as you would ordinary pie, adding more sugar. 

No. £44.. Cream Pie. 16 cts. 

A : 3 cs. hot milk, add to \ c. sugar, 3 egg-yolks beaten, 
4 tbsps. flour or corn-starch, \ tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. vanilla ; 
B : Meringue from egg-whites and 3 tbsps. sugar. 

Cook A in double boiler until thick, stirring constantly, 

fill lower crust, baked, cover with B, brown in the oven, and 

serve cold. 

185 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. £^^. Chocolate Pic i8 cts. 

Follow recipe No. 544, adding 4 tbsps. grated chocolate or 
cocoa to custard and a suspicion of cinnamon. 

No. £^6. Creme St. Honore Pie. j6 cts. 

A : Deep pie tin, lined with PufE Paste No. 541 and baked ; 

B : i c. sugar, 5 egg-yolks beaten, ^ tsp. salt, mix with 

1 c. very hot milk ; 

C : 1 tbsp. corn-starch or rice flour or arrowroot, dissolved 

in ;J c. cold milk ; 

D : Whites of eggs, beaten stifE, 1 tsp. each of vanilla, 

sherry, and Kiimmel liqueur ; 

E : Very small Boston Cream Puffs No. 666, filled with 

chocolate cream filling ; candied orange quarters, Malaga 

grapes and cherries. 
Put B in double boiler, add C, when boiling remove from 
fire, add D, fill A, and garnish with E, using hot syrup to 
fasten together. Serve cold, covered with whipped cream. 

No. 5^7. Custard or Cocoanut Pie. 12 cts. 

A : 2 cs. hot milk, add to slightly beaten yolks 3 eggs 

mixed with J c. sugar, \ tsp. butter ; 

B : Pie-tin lined with Plain Paste No. 540 ; 

C : Meringue of whites of eggs. 
For custard pie add to A 1 tbsp. vanilla and grating of nut- 
meg. For cocoanut add 3 tbsps. grated cocoanut. Fill B, 
bake, and cover with C, brown slightly, and serve cold. 

No. 548. Marlfeoro Pie. i£ cts. 

A : 4 tart apples, cut into quarters without peeling, stew 
and press through a colander, add 3 tbsps. butter ; 
B : 3 egg-yolks, beaten light, with \ c. sugar, and juice 
and grated rind of 1 lemon ; 
C : Whites, beaten stiff and sweetened ; 
D : Pie-tin lined with Plain Paste No. 540. 
Add A to B, mix thoroughly, fill D, bake, and serve covered 
with C or with whipped cream. 

186 



DESSERTS 

No. S49- Mince Pie. $1.20. 

{This will make 6 pies.) 

A : 2 cs. boiled beef, minced fine, 6 cs. apples, chopped 
fine, 1^ qts. sweet cider or boiled cider reduced, 1 c. 
currant jelly, grated rind and juice of 2 lemons and 2 
oranges, 2 cs. sugar, 1 tbsp. each salt and cinnamon, 1 
tsp. each cloves and allspice, ^ tsp. nutmeg and pepper, 
2 lbs. seeded raisins, 1 lb. currants, ^ lb. citron cut in 
pieces, 1 lb. suet, chopped fine, and 1 c. candied orange- 
peel, shredded fine ; 
B : 1 tbsp. each of brandy and sherry for each pie. 

Cook A until apples are tender, fill cans, seal, when ready 
to use add B to each pie. 

No. s^o. Pumpkin Pie. 12 cts. 

A : \\ cs. stewed pumpkin very dry, 2 cs. milk, 1 beaten 
egg, large \ c. brown sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. each 
salt and ginger. 

Line pie-tin with Plain Paste No. 540. Mix A with B, 
fill, and bake in slow oven until brown on top. 

No. §^i. Raisin Pie. 16 cts. 

A : li cs. seeded raisins, chopped, 1 c. cold water, i c. 

sugar ; 

B : 1 lemon cut in thin slices, 1 tbsp. fiour. 

Line pie-tin with Plain Paste No. 540. Fill with A, spread 
with B, cover with strips of paste, and bake. 

No. 55^. Rhubarb or Huckleberry Meringue 18 cts. 

Pic 

A : 3 cs. fruit, 2 slightly beaten egg-yolks, 2 tbsps. fiour, 
\ tsp. salt, 1^ cs. sugar for rhubarb, or 1 c. sugar and 1 
tbsp. lemon-juice for berries ; 
B : Meringue of whites of eggs and 2 tbsps. sugar. 

Line pie-tin with Plain Paste No. 540. Pill with A, bake 
in moderate oven, cover with B, and brown slightly. 

187 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



TARTLETS OR VOL AU VENTS 

N^o. §£J. Almond Macaroon Tartlets. jo cts. 

A : 6 tartlets, baked (see Puff Paste No. 541) ; 
B : J of a Boiled Custard No. 585, nsing yolks only, and 
add 1 tbsp. corn-starch ; 

C : 6 macaroons, pounded fine, 1 tsp. bitter almond ex- 
tract ; 

D : Meringue of whites of eggs, 2 tbsps. sugar, \ c . 
blanched almonds, chopped fine. 

Add C to B, fill A, cover with D, brown in oven, and serve 
cold. 

No. 55^. Almond Meringue Tartlets. 2£ cts. 

A : 6 tartlets baked (see Puff Paste No. 541) ; 

B : 3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff, \ c. powdered sugar, 

1 c. blanched and chopped almonds ; 

C : ^ c. cream, whipped stiff, sweetened, flavored and 

mixed with candied fruit. 

Pill A with B, brown slightly, cool, and serve covered 
with C. 

^^- 5 55- Currant Cream Tartlets. 75 cts. 

A : 6 tartlets of Puff Paste No. 541, baked. 

B : i of a Boiled Custard No. 585, and 1 tbsp. corn-starch, 

J tsp. bitter almond, 1 tsp. vanilla, \ c. currants and \ c. 

whipped cream ; 

C : Meringue from whites of eggs and 2 tbsps. sugar. 

Fill A with B, cover with C, brown delicately. 

No. £^6. Peach or Apricot Tartlets. 75 cts. 

A : 6 tartlets of Puff Paste No. 541, baked ; 

B : 3 large peaches cut in halves, remove pits, place a 

blanched almond in each half, or crack pit and use 

pounded kernels ; 

C : 1 c. fruit-juice or water, 1 tsp. arrowroot, 3 tbsps. 

sugar. 

188 



DESSERTS 

Put B in A, cook C 5 m., pour around fruit, and bake until 
fruit is tender. 

^^- 557' Pineapple Tartlets. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. grated pineapple, \ c. sugar, % egg-yolks, grated 

rind and juice \ a lemon and dash salt ; 

B : 6 patty-pans lined with Plain Paste No. 540 ; 

C : Meringue of egg-whites and 1 tbsp. sugar. 

Fill B with A, bake, cover with C, and serve cold. 



HOT DESSERTS 

No. 558. Apple Balls. 10 cts. 

A : 34 balls cut from apples with vegetable scoop, \ c. 

water, \ c. sugar, 3 tbsps. lemon-juice ; 

B : 6 round slices bread, toasted slightly and dipped in 

melted butter mixed with hot milk ; 

C : ^ c. jelly, marmalade, or chopped nuts, then a 

meringue made of 3 egg-whites, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, 

\ tsp. lemon-juice or vanilla. 

Cook or steam A until tender, pile them on B, cover with 
C, brown in oven, and serve at once. 

Mo. SS9' -A-PP^^ Farci, whh Whipped Cream. 20 cts. 

A : 6 fine Spitzenburg apples, core but do not peel, steam 

until tender and skins break ; 

B : Boil \ c. sugar with 1 c. of water 5 m., add \ c. each 

candied cherries and pineapple ; 

C : 1 c. cream, whipped, \ c. chopped almonds, 1 tsp, 

vanilla, and 1 tbsp. sherry ; 

D : 6 round slices toast or cake. 
Place A on D, stuff centres with B, pour C over apples, 
and serve. 

No. 560. Bananas, Baked. 75 cts. 

A : 4 large bananas, peel, cut in slices lengthwise ; 
B : i c. sugar, J tsp. salt, 3 tbsps. lemon-juice, 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, mix thoroughly ; 
189 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

: I c. powdered macaroons, meringue of 2 egg-whites, 
and sugar. 
Put A and B in layers in baking-dish, bake half an hour, 
cover with C, brown slightly, and serve. 

N'o. j6i. Bcignets Souffles. l8 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. butter, 6 of water, boil and add 5 tbsps. flour, 
cook 5 m., cool and add 4 eggs, one by one, beating 
thoroughly, and 1 tsp. vanilla ; 
B : Soft Sauce No. 605. 

Drop A from tip of spoon into very hot fat, roll in pow- 
dered sugar and cinnamon, and serve with B. 

No. §62. Bread and Almond Poddingf. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. bread-crumbs, 2 cs. hot milk, J c. almonds, 

chopped, soak, and add to 2 egg-yolks, beaten with ^ c. 

sugar, and juice and grated rind of 1 lemon ; 

B : Whites, beaten stifi ; 

: Fruit Sauce No. 603, or Orange Sauce No. 604. 

Mix A, fold in B, bake in small moulds 30 m., serve hot 
with C. 

No. §6 J. Bread and Fruit Custard. 18 cts. 

A : 6 slices bread, soaked in milk, 1 c. sliced apples, 1 
c. seeded raisins, ^ c. sugar, grated lemon-peel ; 
B : 3 cs. hot milk, 3 beaten eggs, J tsp. salt ; 
C : Vanilla Sauce No. 607. 

Line a buttered mould with the bread, add fruit in layers, 
pour in B, bake until custard is set. Serve with C. 

No. ^6^. Bread Croquettes. 12 cts. 

A : 3 cs. bread-crumbs, boil in 1 c. hot milk 3 m., add 
grated rind 1 lemon, \ c. currants, J tsp. cinnamon, re- 
move from fire, and add 3 egg-yolks ; 
B : Sherry Sauce No. 606. 

Cool A, form into croquettes, crumb, egg, crumb and fry 
in hot fat. Serve with B. 

190 



DESSERTS 

No. 5(55. Cake Croquettes. 12 cts. 

Follow Recipe No. 564, using cake instead of bread, omit 
lemon and cinnamon, and add 1 tsp. vanilla and \ c. English 
walnuts, chopped fine. 

No. j66. Cream Croquettes. /^ cts. 

A : 1 pt. milk, scald with 1 stick cinnamon, strain and 

add 3 tbsps. flour and 3 tbsps. corn-starch dissolved in J 

c. cold milk ; 

B : % eggs, beaten with ^ c. sugar ; 

C : J c. almonds, chopped fine, 1 tsp. vanilla or almond 

extract. 
Cook A until thick, add B, cook 1 m., stirring constantly, 
remove from fire and add C, pour in shallow pan to cool, 
when stiff and cold, cut into oblong croquettes, crumb, and 
fry in hot fat, roll in powdered sugar, and serve. 

No. 567. Bread Timbales. 10 cts. 

A : 6 timbale moulds, buttered and lined with crumbs, 

and 1 c. preserved fruit, currants, or raisins, chopped 

fine ; 

B : 3 beaten eggs, 1 c. hot milk, 3 tbsps. sugar ; 

C : Hard Sauce No. 590. 

Mix B, pour in A, bake in hot water 15 m., turn out on 
plates, and serve with C. 

No. §68. Cake. Timbales. 12 cts. 

Follow Recipe No. 567, using cake and candied fruit instead 
of bread and preserved fruit. Serve with Maraschino Sauce 
No. 594. 

No. §6g. Cocoanut Timbales. /^ cts. 

Follow Recipe No. 567, using cocoanut instead of fruit 
Serve with Cream Brandy Sauce No. 600. 

191 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. ^"jo. Chocolate and Almond Poddingf, 28 cts. 

Steamed. 

A : 1 tbsp. butter, J c. flour, \ c. grated chocolate, ^ c. 

milk ; 

B : 5 egg-yolks, beaten with f c. sugar | an hour, 1 c. 

almonds, chopped fine ; 

C : Whites, beaten stiff ; 

D : Hard Sauce No. 590. 

Mix A thoroughly, cook until boiling, turn out to cool, 
then add B, a spoonful at a time, beating constantly, fold 
in C, fill buttered mould, steam 1 hour, turn out, and serve 
with D. 

Mo. ^Ji. Chocolate Sponge Pudding, Steamed. 28 cts. 

A : 4 egg-yolks, 1 c. sugar, beat until very light, add 3 
tbsps. milk, 3 tbsps. grated chocolate, dash salt, and 2 
tsps. baking-powder sifted with 1 c. flour ; 
B : Egg-whites, beaten very stiff ; 
C : Chocolate Icing No. 702 ; 

D : 1 c. whipped cream, 1 tbsp. sugar, \ tsp. almond ex- 
tract, \ c. chopped almonds. 

Beat A thoroughly, fold in B, fill a buttered ring mould, 
steam \ of an hour, turn out on plate, cover with C, fill 
centre with D. Serve at once. 

No. $y2. Farina Pwffs, Baked. i^ cts. 

A : 2 cs. hot milk, add 6 tbsps. farina, cook until thick, 
add 4 egg-yolks, \ c. sugar, \ tsp. salt ; 
B : Egg-whites, beaten stiff, 1 tsp. vanilla ; 
C : Chocolate Sauce No. 599. 

Cook A 1 m., fold in B, fill six buttered moulds, bake 10 
m. in quick oven, turn out, and serve with C. 

^^- 573' P^S Compote. 75 cts. 

A : 6 large bag-figs, wash thoroughly and stuff with 
chopped nuts and grated orange-peel ; 
B : Whipped Cream Sauce No. 597. 
193 



DESSERTS 

Cover A with boiling water, cook until tender, about 30 m., 
put them on slices of sponge-cake in a dish, add juice of 
orange and 1 tbsp. sherry to fig water, pour over figs, sur- 
round with B, and serve. 

No. 5Y4' P^2 Pudding, Steamed. 28 cts. 

A : 1 c. figs, chopped fine, 1 c. bread-crumbs, soaked in 
1 0. hot milk, J c. sugar, 1 c. raisins, seeded, i c. currants, 
J c. almonds and J c. citron chopped, or 3 sour apples, 
chopped, 1 tsp. cinnamon, J tsp. each nutmeg, cloves, 
and salt, J c. suet chopped fine, 3 egg-yolks ; 
B : Whites, beaten stiff, J c. sherry or brandy. 

Mix A thoroughly, fold in B, turn into buttered moulds, 
cover, and steam 2 hours. Serve with White Sauce No. 596. 

No. sy^. Fmit Snowballs, Steamed. 20 cts. 

A : J c. butter, cream with \ c. sugar, add J c. milk, and 
1 c. flour, sifted twice, with 1^ tsps. baking-powder ; 
B : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff ; 
C : 1 c. candied cherries ; 
D : Pistachio Sauce No. 594. 

Mix A thoroughly, fold in B, fill 6 small buttered cups, 
cover with buttered paper, butter-side up, steam i hour, turn 
out on plates, sprinkle with powdered sugar, garnish with C, 
and serve with D. 

No. 57^. Graham Plum Pudding, Steamed. 20 cts. 

A : 1 0. molasses, 1 c. milk, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. cinna- 
mon, \ tsp. cloves, 1 c. raisins, seeded and chopped, \ c. 
currants, J c. citron, sliced, 1 beaten egg, 1^ cs. graham 
flour, mixed with 1 tsp. soda ; 
B : Sherry Sauce No. 606. 

Mix A thoroughly, fill buttered moulds, steam 3 hours, 
turn out and serve with B. 

193 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

N^o. 577. Macaroon Souffle^ 2//. cts. 

A : J lb. macaroons, 1 c. cream, heat until boiling, add 3 

egg-yolks, beaten, J tsp. salt ; 

B : Whites, beaten, \ tsp. almond extract, 1 tbsp. brandy. 

Cook A until boiling, beat until cold, fold in B, bake in 
buttered mould 10 m., turn out, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

No. ^y8. Marmalade Fritters. 12 cts. 

A : 6 round, thin bread sandwiches, filled with mar- 
malade ; 

B : 2 eggs, beaten, \ c. milk, 1 c, flour, 1 tbsp. sugar, 
1 tbsp. butter or oil, dash salt, mix thoroughly. 

Cover A with B, fry in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar and cinnamon, and serve. 

No. 57p. Omelette Soufflel 20 to J5 cts. 

A : 3 egg-yolks, \ c. powdered sugar, flavoring ; 
B : Whites of 6 eggs, \ tsp. salt, beaten very stiff. 

Beat A 10 m., fold in B, turn in buttered pan, bake 10 m. 
in hot oven. Serve immediately. 

With Chocolate : Add 3 tbsps. grated chocolate or cocoa 
and 1 tsp. vanilla to A. 

With Fruit or Jelly : Add 1 c. candied fruit soaked in 3 
tbsps. sherry, or \ c. jelly, to A. 

With Orang;e or Pine-apple: Add grated rind and pulp 
of 1 orange, 1 tsp. lemon-juice, or \ c. pine-apple pulp and 
juice \ lemon to A. 

With Prunes: Add \ lb. prunes stewed, drained, and 
mashed, and 1 tbsp. lemon-juice to A. 

With Rum or Brandy : Add 1 tbsp. rum to A, bake, pour 
over \ c. brandy or rum, and set on fire just before placing 
on table. 

194 



DESSERTS 



No. ^80. Plom Padding, Steamed. jj cts. 

A : 1 c. suet, chopped fine, 1 c. raisins, seeded, 1 c. cur- 
rants, \ c. citron and candied orange-peel, sliced, 1 c. 
granulated sugar, 3 cs. soft bread-crumbs ; 
B : 4 eggs, one at a time, \ c. milk, \ c. brandy, 1 tsp. 
cinnamon, \ tsp. each allspice, cloves, and nutmeg, grated 
rind of 1 lemon ; 
C : Cream Brandy Sauce No. 600. 

Mix A, add B, fill mould, steam 7 or 8 hours, turn out on a 
dish, pour over \ c. brandy or rum — or make a hole in top of 
pudding, insert a writing-paper box, trim edges, fill box with 
brandy or rum — set on fire. Serve with C. 

No. §81. Ram Castards, 75 cts. 

A : Add 3 tbsps. rum and 1 tbsp. brandy to plain custard 
mixture. 

Bake in 6 shallow cups, turn out and serve. 

No. £82. Sponge Puddingf. i^ cts. 

A : 3 cs. boiling milk, J c. sugar, dash salt, add J c. flour 

mixed with ^ c. cold milk, when boiling, add 5 egg-yolks, 

well beaten ; 

B : Whites, beaten stiff ; 

C : Sherry Sauce No. 606. 

Cook A until thick, remove from fire, fold in B, bake in 
buttered dish 20 m. Serve immediately with C. 

No. §8 J. Short<afces, 20 to ^o cts. 

A : 2 cs. flour, 4 tsps. baking-powder, \ tsp. salt, sift 

twice, add \ c. cold butter ; 

B : i c. milk ; 

C : Whipped Cream Sauce No. 597. 

Mix and chop A into crumbs with a knife, add B, or enough 
to make soft dough, roll i inch thick, cut into 12 small, round, 
or square cakes, spread 6 with butter, place the remaining 6 

195 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

on top, bake until light brown, split open, fill, and coyer with 
warm fruit. Serve with C. 

With Currants : Fill and cover cakes with 2 cs. crushed cur- 
rants, mixed with ^ c. sugar, omit C, and cover with meringue. 

With Peaches : Fill and cc)ver cakes, with 3 qts. peaches, 
sliced, and mixed with J c. powdered sugar, flavor C with 
almond extract. 

With Strawberries : Fill and cover cakes with 3 qts. straw- 
berries, cut in two, and mixed with 1 c. powdered sugar. 

No. §84. Suet Pudding. 18 cts. 

A : ^ c. beef snet, chopped fine, \ c. sugar, f c. milk, 1 
c. raisins, seeded and chopped, \ c. currants, h tsp. nut- 
meg or cinnamon, \ tsp. salt ; 

B : 3 cs. flour or entire wheat, and 3 tsps. baking-powder, 
sifted twice. 

Mix A, add B, fill small moulds, steam IJ hours, serve with 
Cream Sherry Sauce No. 601. 



19tf 



B 


m 




Mill 




^^M 




^^^ 


tiiiw 




M 


a. * •^sg|HK% Ti^_^ ■— 


^ 


^H 


M 


^ 


^^P 


f^ 


^ 





JVo. sSs- 



COLD SAUCES 
Boiled CustarcL 



g cts. 



A : 2 cs. hot milk, add to 3 egg-yolks, slightly beaten, 
with \ c. sugar, \ tsp. butter, grating nutmeg and dash 
salt ; 
B : Whites beaten stiff, 1 tsp, flavoring. 

Cook A in double boiler until spoon is coated, stirring con- 
stantly, remove from fire, add B, beat well and serve cold. 



No. 586. 



Caramel Sauce. 



3 cts. 



A : ^ c. water, 1 c. sugar ; 
B : 1 c. hot water. 



Boil A until it sugars, cook until very dark brown, add B, 
serve cold. 



No. ^Sy. Qaret Sauce. 20 cts. 



1 c. sugar and 1 c. water, boil 5 m., 
add \ c. claret. 



No. 588. Egfg Sauce. 



12 cts. 



A : 3 egg-yolks and 1 c. sugar ; 

B : Whites, beaten very stiff, 3 tsps. 

brandy or sherry, or 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat A 10 m., add B, and serve. 

197 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. jScf. Frozen Sauce. 24 cts. 

A : 1 c. granulated sugar, 1 c. water ; 

B : 3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff ; 

C : Juice of 1 orange, of 1 lemon, \ c. wine. 

Cook A until it threads, add slowly to B, beat until cold, 
add C, pack in small pail, and freeze. Serve rather soft. 

No. ^go. Hard Sauce> with Cream. 75 cis. 

A : 4 tbsps. butter, stir until creamy, adding 1 c. pow- 
dered sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tbsp. brandy, ^ c. whipped 
cream. 

Serve very cold. 

No. 5p/. Jelly Sauce. p cts. 

A : 3 egg-yolks, beaten with J c. sugar, add 2 cs. hot 
milk, cook until thick, add 1 tbsp. gelatine, dissolved in 
i c. cold water ; 
B : 1 tbsp. sherry or cordial, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cook A until thick, when cold, add B. 

No. §g2. Orang^e Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff, \ c. powdered sugar, grated 
rind, pulp, and juice of 2 oranges. 

Mix very carefully and serve at once. 

No. £gj. Maple Sauce. ij cts. 

A : 3 egg-yolks, beaten until thick, add slowly J c, hot 

maple syrup ; 

B : i c. whipped cream and dash salt. 

Cook A until spoon is coated, strain and beat thoroughly 
until cool, add C, and serve very cold. 

No. 59^. Pistachio or Maraschino Sauce. 16 cts. 

A : 1 c. sugar, 1 scant tbsp. arrowroot, 3 cs. boiling water ; 
B : 1 tsp. vanilla, \ tsp. bitter almond extract, or use 
198 



PUDDING SAUCES 

pistachio flavoring, and ^ c. chopped pistachio nuts, or 2 
tbsps. maraschino. 

Boil A 5 m., add B, color pale green with Burnett's Paste. 
Serve hot or cold. 

^0. 595. Ram or Brandy Sauce. j8 cts. 

A : 2 egg-yolks, beaten stiff, \ c. powdered sngar, 2 
tbsps. Jamaica rum or brandy, mix, add the whites, 
beaten very stiif ; 
B : J c. cream, whipped. 

Beat A, cook until thick and beat until cold, fold in B, 
and serve. B may be omitted. 

No. 5p<5. White Sauce. 8 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. corn-starch, dissolve in \ c. cold water, add 1 

c. boiling water, \ c. powdered sugar, dash salt ; 

B : 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff, 1 tsp. vanilla and 2 tbsps. 

sherry. 

Boil A 15 m., stirring constantly, add B, remove from fire 
and beat until cold. 

No. 5P7. Whipped G-eam Sauce. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. cream, whipped stiff, \ c. powdered sugar, 1 
egg-white, beaten stiff, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tsp. almond ex- 
tract, or 1 tbsp. Maraschino, Kummel, or any strong 
flavored cordial. 

Mix carefully and serve very cold. 



HOT SAUCES 

No. §g8. Elanana Sauce. J2 cts. 

A : I c. sugar, 1 c. water ; 

B : 3 bananas peeled, 2 tbsps. lemon-juice, 2 eggs, well 

beaten, dash salt. 

Boil A until it threads, remove from fire, add B, mash and 
beat until smooth. 

199 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. ^gg. Chocolate Sauce. g ets, 

A : J c. sugar, 1 c. water, 1 stick cinnamon, boil, strain, 
and add 4 tbsps. chocolate, dissolved in h c. milk, 1 tbsp. 
arrowroot, dissolved in \ c. water, dash salt ; 
B : 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Boil A 5 m., add B, and serve. 

No. 6oo. Cream Brandy Sauce. ly cts. 

A : 1 c. sugar, 1 c. water ; 

B : 3 egg-yolks, 3 tbsps. brandy, \ c. cream, dash salt. 

Cook A until it threads, beat B in bowl, add A slowly, 
stirring constantly until thick. 

No. 6oi. Cream Sherry Sauce. i8 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter, creamed with \ c. of sugar, 2 egg- 
yolks, beaten stiff, 1 c. hot cream ; 
B : 3 tbsps. sherry. 

Cook A in double boiler until thick, add B and serve. 

No. 6o2. Foam Sauce. lo cts. 

A : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff, with \ c. powdered sugar, 

1 tsp. flavoring; 

B : 1 c. boiling water. 

Add B to A carefully and serve at once. 

No. 6oj. Fruit Sauce. /j cts. 

A : J c. sugar, 1 c. water ; 

B : J can apricots, peaches, or strawberries, or J c. fruit- 
juice or syrup, currant, raspberry, orange, or pineapple, 
1 tbsp. arrowroot dissolved in J c. water. 

Boil A 5 m., add B ; when boiling, press through a sieve 
and serve. To make a thicker sauce, add 1 egg and beat all 
with a Dover egg-beater. 

200 



PUDDING SAUCES 



No. 604. Orange Saace. 18 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter, beat until creamy in double boiler, 
add 4 egg-yolks, 1 at a time, 3 tbsps. sugar, 4 tbsps. 
cream ; 
B : J c. orange-juice and grated rind of 1 orange. 

Boil A until thick, add B, and serve at once. 

No. 605. Soft Sauce 75 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter, cream with f c. powdered sugar, add 
3 egg-yolks, beaten, and 1 tsp. corn-starch ; 
B : Juice and grated rind 1 lemon, or 2 tbsps. brandy 
and \ c. boiling water. 

Cook A 2 m., add B, when boiling, serve. 

No. 606. Shcny Saace. g cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. butter, 1 c. powdered sugar ; 
B : 3 tbsps. sherry. 

Cream A, put bowl in boiling water, stir 5 m., add B and 

serve. 

No. 60J. Vanilla Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 1 c. butter, cream with 1 c. powdered sugar ; 
B : 1 c. milk or cream, 1 tbsp. vanilla. 

Cream A, place bowl in hot water, add B, stirring con- 
stantly until smooth and creamy. 



201 




CREAMS, STIRRED WHILE FREEZING 



No. 608. 



French Ice Cream. 



35 ^^-y- 

A : 1 pt. hot milk, pour slowly over 4 egg-yolks, beaten 
stiff with 1 c. sugar, dash salt ; 
B : Whites, beaten stiff, flavoring ; 
C : 1 c. cream, whipped stiff. 

Cook A until it coats the spoon, remove from fire, add B, 
beat until cold, add C, and freeze. 

No. 6og. Philadelphia Ice Cream. jo cts. 

A : 3 cs. cream and 1 c. milk or 1 qt. thin cream, scant c. 
sugar and dash salt ; 
B': Flavoring. 

Scald A, but do not boil ; beat until cold, add B and 
freeze. These creams may be removed from freezer, put in 
moulds, packed in ice and salt, covered, and allowed 2 to 5 
hours to ripen. One-pound baking-powder boxes make very 
pretty moulds and are quite convenient for serving in slices. 



CREAMS, FROZEN WITHOUT STIRRING 

No. 610. White Parfait. jo cts. 

A : 1 c. sugar and 1 c. water, cook until it spins a thread, 
add slowly to whites of 3 eggs beaten very stiff ; 
B : 1 pt. cream, whipped very stiff, flavoring. 

Beat A thoroughly until cold, add B, mix thoroughly, turn 
into moulds, pack in ice and salt from 4 to 5 hours. 

203 



FROZEN CREAMS, ICES AND FRAPPES 

No. 6 1 1. Yellow Paff ait. 30 cts. 

A : 6 egg-yolks, beaten thick ; 

B : 1 c. sugar, boiled in \ c. water 5 m. ; 

C : 1 pt. cream, whipped very stiff, flavoring. 

Add B to A slowly, return to double boiler, cook until 
mixture coats spoon, strain, beat until cold, add 0, mix 
thoroughly, turn into moulds, pack and cover well with ice 
and salt, and leave 4 or 5 hours to ripen. 

No. 612. Mousse. 20 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine, dissolve in \ c. water, 

add f c. powdered sugar, dash salt ; 

B : 2 cs. cream, whipped very stiff, flavoring. 

Stir A until cool, strain gradually into B, mix thoroughly, 
fill moulds, pack in ice and salt, cover from 2 to 4 hours to 
ripen. 

No. 61 J. Biscoit Glacel 5^ cts. 

A : Yellow Parfait No. 611, add \ c. water to syrup, 
cool and beat 10 m. ; 

B : 1 tsp. vanilla, 2 tbsps. Maraschino, 1 tbsp. Kirschen- 
wasser or sherry. 

Add B to A before freezing, fill small paper boxes, pack 
them in a tin box or pail with waxed paper between each one, 
pack in salt and ice for 2 hours. Serve in the boxes. 

No. 614. Biscait Glace Diplomate. yo cts. 

A : Biscuit Glace No. 613, half the quantity ; 
B : 2 cs. candied fruits, | c. pounded macaroons. 

Fill boxes half full with A, add B, cover with A, leaving 
small space at top ; freeze slightly, then fill with a layer of 
whipped cream, colored a deep pink, sprinkle with cinnamon 
and browned almonds, and finish freezing. Serve in boxes. 

203 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. 6i^. Biscuit Toftoni. 55 cts. 

A : Yellow Parfait No. 611, add J c. water to syrup ; 
B : 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tbsp. caramel, 3 tbsps. sherry, \ c. 
macaroons, and \ c. lady-fingers pounded fine. 

Add B to A before freezing, fill paper boxes, see No. 613, 
sprinkle with chopped almonds, pack in tin box, and freeze. 

No. 616. Brown-bread Ice Cream or Parfait. jy cts. 

A : French Ice Cream No, 608, or Yellow Parfait No. 

611 ; 

B : 1 tbsp. vanilla, 1 c. Boston brown-bread crnmbs, 

dried and browned slightly, or graham crackers may be 

used. 

Add B to A, pack, and freeze. 

No. 6iy. Burnt-almond Ice Cream or Parfait. 55 cts. 

A : French Ice Cream No. 608, or Yellow Parfait No. 

611; 

B : 1 c. almonds, chopped fine, browned in 2 tbsps. 

caramel-sugar and pounded fine, 1 tsp. vanilla, and \ 

tsp. almond extract. 

Add B to A before freezing. Peanuts may be used instead 
of almonds. 

No. 618. Caramel Ice Cream, Parfait, or Mousse, ^o cts. 

A : French Ice Cream No. 608, Yellow Parfait No. 611, 

or Mousse No. 613, using J c. less sugar ; 

B : ^ c. hot caramel ; 

C : 1 c. English walnut-meats, peanuts, or almonds, 

chopped fine. 

Add B to A while cooking, when cold add C, and freeze. 

No. 6ig. Chocolate Ice Cream, Parfait, or jo cts. 

Mousse. 

A : French or Philadelphia, White or Yellow Parfait or 
Mousse ; 

204 



FROZEN CREAMS, ICES AND FRAPPES 

B : 4 ozs. chocolate, melted in J c. hot milk, 1-inch cin- 
namon-stick, and 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Add B to A before freezing. Reject cinnamon. 

No. 620. Coffee Ice Cream, Parfait, or Mousse, jo cts. 

A : Philadelphia or French Ice Cream, Parfait, or 

Mousse ; 

B : 4 c, very strong, clear coffee. 

Add B to A before freezing. 

No. 621. Cherry and Almond Ice Cream, J§ cts. 
Parfait or Mousse. 

A : White Parfait No. 610 or Mousse No. 612 ; 

B : 1 c. candied cherries, 1 c. blanched almonds, chopped, 

1 tbsp. sherry and 1 tsp. vanilla or almond extract. 

Add B to A before freezing. 

No. 622^ Croquettes of Ice Cream. ^fo cts. 

A : Philadelphia No. 609, or French Ice Cream No. 608 ; 
B : 1 c. almonds, chopped fine, and browned in the oven ; 
C : Pistachio Sauce No. 594. 

Freeze A very hard, take out with an ice-cream scoop which 
forms a pyramid, roll these in B, put on plates, surround 
with C, and serve. 

No. 623. Ginger Mousse. jo cts. 

A : Mousse No. 613, add before freezing 1 c. preserved 
ginger, cut very small, 2 tbsps. ginger syrup, and 1 tbsp. 
lemon-juice. 

No. 62^. Macaroon Ice Cream, Parfait, or 55 cts. 

Mousse. 

A : French or Philadelphia Ice Cream, White or Yellow 
Parfait, or Mousse ; 

B : J lb. dried macaroons, pounded fine, 1 tsp. vanilla, 
\ tsp. almond extract, 1 tbsp. sherry ; 
C : 1 doz. macaroons, \ c. candied cherries. 
205 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Add B to A, and if for Mousse or Parfait, line mould with 
C, fill with the mixture, and freeze. Put cherries between 
the macaroons. 

No. 62^. Maple Ice Cream or Parfait. ^o cts. 

A : French Ice Cream No. 608, or Yellow Parfait No. 
611 ; 

B : Hot maple syrup, instead of sugar or water in recipe ; 
C : 1 c. almonds, chopped fine and browned. 

Add B to A before cooking, pack and freeze, after it is re- 
moTed from mould, cover with 0. 

No. 626. Maraschino Ice Oeam, Parfait, or 70 cts. 

Mousse. 

A : Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 609, White Parfait No. 

610, or Mousse No. 612 ; 

B : 4 tbsps. Maraschino cordial, 1 tsp. vanilla ; 

C : 1 c. Maraschino cherries ; 

D : Liquor from cherries, 1 c. cream, whipped very stiff, 

1 tbsp. rum. 

Add B to A before freezing, when removed from mould, 
garnish with C, and serve with D poured around. 

No. 62'/. Meringue Glaces. ^^ cts. 

A : 4 large egg-whites, beaten very stiff, with \ tsp. cream 
tartar, add gradually 1 c. powdered sugar, beat until 
very stiff, add \ c. powdered sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla, \ tsp. 
almond extract ; 

B : Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 609, or French Ice 
Cream No. 608, or whipped cream. 

Drop A from spoon or pastry-tube onto paper, smooth 
into oval shape, bake 30 or 40 m. in slow oven, remove soft 
centres, dry in the oven, fill with B, dip edges in beaten egg, 
put 2 together, and serve 1 to each person. Garnish with 
candied cherries if whipped cream is used. These may be 
dusted with colored sugar before baking. 

306 



FROZEN CREAMS, ICES AND FRAPPES 



N^o. 628. Nesselrodc Puddingf, with Sauce. 70 cts. 

A : Yellow Parfait No. 611, add 1 c. chestnuts, boiled 
and pressed through a sieve, J lb. candied fruit cut in 
pieces and soaked in J c. sherry, \ c. each raisins and 
currants boiled until plump, J c. pine-apple pulp, drained ; 
B : 1 tsp. vanilla, \ tsp. bitter-almond extract, 1 tbsp. 
yellow Chartreuse ; 
C : Rum Sauce No. 595. 

Mix A thoroughly, when cold add B, freeze in 1 mould, 
and serve with C poured around. 

No. 62g. Nougat Ice Cream or Parfait. jo cts. 

A : French Ice Cream No. 608 ; 

B : i c. each pistachio, filberts, English walnuts, and 
almonds, chopped fine, 1 tsp. vanilla, J tsp. almond, or 
1 tbsp. Noyeaux cordial. 

Add B to A before freezing. 

No. 630. Orange Ice Cream or Mousse. ^o cts. 

A : Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 609, or Mousse No. 613, 

and \ c. orange-juice, and 1 tbsp. lemon-juice ; 

B : 2 oranges, mandarins, or tangerines, cut into quarters. 

Mix A, freeze, remove from mould, garnish with B. 

No. 6ji. Peach or Pine-apple Parfait, Ice Cream, jj cts. 
or Mousse. 

A : Yellow Parfait No. 611, Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 
609, or Mousse No. 612, 2 cs. sliced peaches or pulp, 1 
tsp. Noyeaux cordial or almond extract, or 3 cs. pine- 
apple-juice and pulp and juice 1 lemon. 

Mix thoroughly, and freeze. 

No. 632. Pistachio Ice Cream or Mousse. ^o cts. 

A : Philadelphia No. 609, or Mousse No. 612, \ c. pis- 
tachio nuts, I c. almonds, chopped fine, 1 tsp. orange 
307 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

flour-water, and J tsp. bitter almond, or 1 tbsp. Kiimmel 

and 1 tsp. vanilla ; 

B : 1 pt. iced champagne, 75 cts. 

Mix A, color pale green, freeze, and serve, with B poured 
over. 

No. 6jj. Plam Podding Glace. §£ cts. 

A : French Ice Cream No. 608, flavored with sherry or 
brandy ; 

B : 1^ cs. candied fruit, raisins, currants, figs, and nuts, 
all chopped or cut into small pieces. 

Cover B with \ c. water and 3 tbsps. sugar, cook 3 m., drain, 
when cold add to A, pack in mould and freeze ; 3 tbsps. 
chocolate, melted and mixed with a little of the hot custard, 
may be added, flavor with vanilla, omit sherry, and cook stick- 
cinnamon with custard. 

No. 6j^. Rose Mousse. 70 cts. 

A : Mousse No. 613, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tbsp. rose-water ; 
B : 1 oz. candied rose-leaves. 

Color A pale pink, freeze and when ready to serve, garnish 
with B. 

No, 6j§. Strawberry Ice Cream or Mousse. ^o cts. 

A : Philadelphia No. 609, or Mousse No. 612, 1 c. straw- 
berries mashed with juice, and \ e. sugar ; 
B : 1 c. whole strawberries cut in two. 

Mix A, line mould with B, or freeze, and garnish with B. 

No. 636. Vanilla Ice Cream, with Hot Choc- J5 cts. 

olate Sauce. 

A : French No, 608 or Philadelphia No. 609, add vanilla- 
bean while cooking ; 
B : Chocolate Sauce No. 599. 

Freeze A, and serve with B poured around. 

208 



FROZEN CREAMS, ICES AND FRAPPES 



No. 6jy. Violet Ice Cream or Mousse. yo cts. 

A : Philadelphia Ice Creaiji No. 609, or Mousse No. 612, 
\ tsp. vanilla, 1 tbsp. violet flavoring, or Crfime Yvette 
cordial ; 

B : 1 oz. candied violets. 

Color A pale violet, freeze and garnish with B. 

No. 6j8. White Ice Creanv with Qaret Sauce. Jj cts. 

A : Philadelphia Ice Cream No. 609, or Mousse No. 612, 
omit 1 c. cream, add 1 c. boiled rice, 1 tsp. lemon-juice 
and 1 of vanilla, vrhile warm ; 
B : 4 egg-whites, beaten stiff ; 
C : Claret Sauce No. 587. 

Beat A until cold, add B, freeze, and serve with 0. 



ICES 

No. S^g. Water Ice. 75 to jo cts. 

A : 3 cs. water, 1 c. sugar, boil, add 1 tsp. granulated 

gelatine dissolved in water ; 

B : 4 egg-whites, beaten stiff, and flavoring. 

Beat A until cold, add B, pack and freeze, stirring con- 
stantly, cover and ripen 2 to 4 hours. 

With Lemons : Add juice of 3 lemons to A. 

With Orangfes : Add grated rind and juice of 2 oranges 
and juice 1 lemon to A. 

With Peaches: Add 6 very ripe peaches mashed, and 
juice 1 lemon to A. 

With Pine-apple : Add 1 pt. pine-apple pressed through 
colander and juice 1 lemon to A. 

With Red Raspfeerries : Add 1 qt. red raspberries mashed 
fine, and juice 3 lemons to A. 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 640. Pistachio Bombe Glace, with Qaret ^5 cts. 

Sauce. 

A : Pistachio Ice Cream No. 632 ; 

B : i c. seeded raisins soaked in brandy, then \ c. chopped 
almonds ; 

C : Vanilla Ice Cream No. 636, or whipped cream sweet- 
ened and flavored with vanilla ; 
D : Claret Sauce No. 587. 

Line a mould with A, J inch thick, then with B, fill with 
C, pack and freeze, and serve with D. 

No. 641. Red Canant Bombe Glace. _^8 cts. 

A : J c. Water Ice No. 639, J c. red currant- juice ; 

B : Charlotte Eusse No. 513, or Philadelphia Ice Cream 

No. 609. 

Line mould i inch thick with A, fill with B, seal, pack, 
and freeze. 

FRAPPES 

Method. 

Frapp§s are soft water-ices, with or with- 
out cream, served in small punch-glasses 
with a teaspoon, pour mixtures in freezer, 
using half ice and half salt, freeze to the 
consistency of mush. These are usually 
served at afternoon teas. 

No. 642. Ca.il Frappe. 20 cts. 

A : Make \ the amount of Coffee No. 712, add 1 scant 
c. sugar while hot, cool, strain, add 1 c. cream, freeze, 
or omit cream, and freeze, and serve with 1 c. whipped 
cream. 

Put teaspoon whipped cream on top of each glass when 
serving. 

SIO 




FROZEN CREAMS, ICES AND FRAPP^ 



No. 6^j. Chocolate Frappe. jo cis. 

A : Chocolate No. 711, add 5 tbsps. sugar, freeze and 
serve with 1 c. cream. 

No. 6^^. Fniit Frappe. jj cts. 

A : 1\ cs. sugar, 3 cs. water, boil 5 m., add 1 c. fruit, 
mashed, or syrup from fruit, juice of 1 lemon and 2 
oranges ; 
B : 3 egg-whites, \ c. rum or sherry. 

Beat A until cold, add B, and freeze soft. 

No. 6^§. Orangfe Frapp^. jj cts. 

A : 1 c. sugar, 3 cs. water, boil 5 m., add 1 c. orange- 
juice, and I c. lemon- juice ; 

B : 3 egg-whites, beaten stifE, or omit eggs, and add the 
orange pulp. 

Beat A until cold, add B, and freeze soft. For a dark, 
rich frapp6, use grape-juice instead of water in A. 

No. 6^6. Tea Frappe. jo cts- 

A : 4 tsps. tea, cover with 1 pt. freshly boiling water, 
steep 5 m. ; 

B : 1 c. sugar, 3 cs. water, boil 5 m., rind and juice 3 
oranges, juice 2 lemons, 1 c. pine-apple. 

Strain A into B, and freeze. 



811 




CAKE, IN LOAVES 

No. 64^. Angel Cake (J loaf). 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. egg-whites, \ tsp. salt ; 

B : 1 c. graimlated sugar sifted twice, 1 tsp, almond, \ 

tsp. vanilla ; 

C : 1 c. floar, 1 tsp. cream of tartar, sift 3 times. 

Beat A very stiff, fold in B, then, carefully, C, fill unbut- 
tered pan, one with a centre-tube is best, bake 40 m. without 
moving, when done, invert pan until cool, remove pan, and 
brush cake with egg-white beaten with sugar, then coyer 
with frosting. 

No. 648. Coffee Cafce, with Fruit (2 loaves). .^5 cts. 

A : Oream 1 c. butter, add 1 c. sugar, beat thoroughly, 
add 2 eggs beaten slightly, 1 c. strong black coffee, 1 c. 
molasses, 2 cs. raisins, seeded and chopped, \ c. citron, 
shredded, \ c. currants or chopped nuts, 1 tsp. cinnamon. 



tsp. each of allspice, cloves, and nutmeg ; 



B : 4 cs. flour, 1 tsp. soda. 
Beat A thoroughly, add B, sifted twice, a little at a time, 
tdl slightly buttered pans, bake f of an hour. This will keep 
fresh a long time. 

No. 6/f.g. Chocx»Iate Marshmallow Cake. JO cts. 

A : Cream | c. butter, add 1 c. sugar, sifted ; 
B : 2 cs. flour, 2 tsps. baking-powder, sifted thoroughly ; 
C : I c. cold water or milk, 1 tsp. vanilla or 1 tbsp. 
brandy ; 

D : 4 egg-whites, beaten very stiff. 
S13 



CAKES 

Cream A, add B and C alternately, beat thoroughly, fold 
in D, without further beating, bake in shallow tin 30 m., 
when cold pin a strip of wax-paper around the cake, and coTer 
^ inch deep with Marshmallow Filling No. 693, when cool 
cover with 3 ozs. chocolate, melted. 

No. 6^0. Delicate Cake (I large loaf). 25 cts. 

A : Cream J c. butter, add 1^ cs. granulated sugar, 

sifted twice ; 

B : 3 cs. flour, 3 tsps. baking-powder, sifted twice, and 

1 c. cold water or milk ; 

C : f c. of egg-whites, about 6, beaten very stiff, 1 tsp. 

vanilla or almond extract, or 1 tbsp. brandy. 

Cream A thoroughly, add B alternately, beat thoroughly, 
fold in C, and add, if you like, J c. English walnut-meats or 
currants. Bake in slightly buttered and papered tin 40 m., 
very slow the first half hour. 

No. 6^1. Federal Fruit Cake (2 loaves). j^ cts. 

A : Cream 2 cs. butter, add 2 cs. brown sugar, cream, 
and add 5 egg-yolks, beaten thick, and \ c. sour cream ; 
B : 2 cs. seeded and chopped raisins, 1 c. each of chopped 
almonds, currants, and citron, dredged with flour, 4 cs. 
flour, \ tsp. soda, 1 tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. each nutmeg 
and cloves, \ c. each brandy and sherry ; 
C : 5 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Beat A thoroughly, add B alternately, then beat again, 
fold in C carefully, bake 40 m. This cake will keep fresh 
several weeks. 

No. 6^2. Globe Molasses Cake (I loaf). 75 cts. 

A : J c. melted butter, mix with 1 c. molasses, add 2 
eggs, beaten, \ c. cold water, 1 tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. 
ginger ; 
B : 2 cs. flour, 1 tsp. soda, sift twice. 

Beat A thoroughly, add B, bake in shallow pan 30 m., 
cover with Boiled Frosting No. 698. 

213 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 653. Plain Cake (I large loaf). 22 cts. 

A : Cream ^ c. butter, add 2 cs. granulated sugar, sifted, 
4 egg-yolks, beaten thick, 1 tbsp. vanilla or brandy, grat- 
ing nutmeg ; 

B : 3 cs. flour, 3 tsps. baking-powder, sift twice, and 1 c. 
milk ; 
C : Whites, beaten stiff. 

Beat A thoroughly, add B alternately, beat again, add, if 
yen like, 1 c. chopped nuts, currants, or raisins, then fold 
in carefully, and bake 30 or 40 m. 

No. 654.. Pound Cake (2 loaves). 75 cts. 

A : 2 cs. butter, cream, add gradually 2 cs. granulated 

sugar, then yolks 10 eggs, beaten until thick ; 

B : Whites of eggs, beaten stiff, and 4 cs. flour ; 

C : J c. brandy, J tsp. mace or nutmeg, and, if you like, 

2 cs. raisins, currants, citron, or nuts. 

Beat A 5 m., add B alternately, flavor with C, and bake 1 
hour. 

No. 6££. Raisin Cake (2 loaves). 60 cts. 

A : Cream 1 c. butter, add \\ cs. sugar, 1 c. cream, 5 
egg-yolks, beaten thick, 2 tsps. cinnamon, 1 tsp. cloves, 
\ tsp. nutmeg, \ c. brandy or sherry, 1 lb. raisins, seeded. 
Mix thoroughly, add 4 cs. flour, 1 tsp. soda, sifted twice ; 
B : Whites, beaten very stiff. 

Beat A thoroughly, fold in B, and bake in buttered, pa- 
pered pans 40 m. This will keep fresh a long time. 

No. 6^6. Spongfe Cake (I Iarg:e loaf). j£ cts, 

A : 3 egg-yolks, beat 10 m., \\ cs. sifted granulated 
sugar, beat 5 m., 1 c. sifted flour, beat 1 m., \ c. cold 
water, beat 5 m., 1 c. flour, 3 tsps. baking-powder, sifted 
twice, juice and grated rind 1 lemon, or 1 tbsp. flavor- 
ing, i tsp. salt; 
B : Whites, beaten stiff. 

214 



CAKES 

Beat A 10 m., fold in B, bake in slightly fioared, bnttered 
pan 40 m. 

Or J Small Loaf. 

A : 5 egg-yolks, beaten nntil thick, 1 c. sugar, sifted, 

flavoring ; 

B : Whites, beaten stifiE, and 1 c. flour, dash salt. 

Beat A 3 m., add B alternately, folding in carefully, bake 
40 m. in slow oven. 

No. 6^y. Sunshine Cake (J loaf). l8 cts. 

A : 5 egg-yolks, beaten thick, 1 c. granulated sugar, 
sifted, dash salt, f c. flour, and \ tsp. cream of tartar, 
sifted twice ; 

B : 7 egg-whites beaten very stifE, 1 lump sugar rubbed 
with lemon-rind and dissolved in 1 tsp. lemon and 1 
tbsp. orange-juice. 

Beat A 30 m., fold in B, and bake in slightly floured and 
buttered pan 40 m. 

No. 6^8. Wthe Almond or Butter Cake ^o cts. 
(I largfe loaf). 

A : 1 0. butter, creamed, 3 cs. sugar, sifted ; 

B : i c milk and 3 cs. flour and 2 tbsps. baking-powder, 

sifted twice, 1 c chopped almonds, 1 tsp. almond or 

Noyau extract ; 

C : 8 egg-whites. 

Cream A, add B alternately, beat thoroughly, fold in 0, 
bake in bnttered and papered pan 40 m. For butter cake 
omit milk and almonds, and use only 2 cs. flour. 

No. d^g. White Fruit Cake (2 loaves). 8o cts. 

A : Cream f c. butter, add 1^ cs. granulated sugar, sifted, 
3 egg-yolks, beaten thick ; 

B : 2^ cs. flour, 2 tsps. baking-powder, sifted twice, J c. 
cream j 

C : IJ lbs. seeded raisins, 1 lb. currants, \ c. citron, and 
215 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

i c. candied orange-peel^ sliced and dredged with flour, 

I tsp. nutmeg, J c. brandy ; 

D : Whites, beaten stiff. 
Mix A thoroughly, add B alternately, beat and add 0, fold 
in D, and bake in buttered, papered pans 40 m. This will 
keep several weeks. 

CAKE, IN LAYERS 

Bake in round, shallow pans, slightly buttered. When cold 
fill with any of the fillings (see Cake Fillings), trim edges 
neatly, and cover top and sides with frosting (see Cake Frost- 
ings) to correspond with filling. 

//o. 660. Cheap Cake. 12 cts. 

A : Cream \ c. butter, add 1 c. granulated sugar, sifted, 
cream again, add 2 egg-yolks, beaten thick ; 
B : \\ cs. flour, 2 tsps. baking-powder, sifted twice, and 
\ c. milk or water ; 
C : Whites, beaten very stiff. 
Beat A thoroughly, add B alternately, fold in C, and bake 
15 m. 

No. 661. Better Cake. 75 cts. 

A : Cheap Cake No. 660, omit yolks and use 1 c. flour 
and \ c. corn-starch instead of all flour. 

No. 662. Chocolate Cake. 18 cts. 

A : Cream J c. butter, add 1 c. powdered sugar, 1 beaten 



B : 2 cs. flour, 2 tsps. baking-powder, sifted twice, and 
I c. milk, 1 tsp. vanilla ; 

C : 2 squares of chocolate, melted, with J c. powdered 
sugar and \ c. milk ; 
D : Nougat Filling No. 694. 
Cream A, add B alternately, beat thoroughly, add C when 
slightly cool, bake 20 m., when cool, fill with D and cover 
with Chocolate Frosting No. 702. 

216 



CAKES 



No. 66j. Orange Cake. i8 cts, 

A : 5 egg-yolks, beaten thick, add 2 cs. granulated sugar, 

sifted ; 

B : 3 cs. flour and 1^ tsps. baking-powder, sifted twice, 

dash salt, \ c. water, juice and grated rind 1 sour orange ; 

C : 3 egg-whites, beaten stifE ; 

D : Orange Filling No. 695. 
Beat A 10 m., add B alternately, mix thoroughly, fold in 
0, bake 20 m., fill with D, cover with plain frosting, garnish 
with quarters of orange. 



SMALL CAKES 

No. 66^. Cocoanut Thambs oi- Squares. jo cts. 

A : Cream | c. butter, add 1 c. sifted granulated sugar ; 

B : 1 c. milk, 2 cs. flour, 1 tbsp. corn-starch, and 2 tsps. 

baking-powder, sifted twice ; 

C : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff, 1 tsp. vanilla ; 

D : 1 egg-white, beaten, with enough confectioners' sugar 

to spread, 1 tsp. vanilla, then 1 c. grated cocoanut. 
Cream A, add B alternately, mix well, fold in C, bake in 
small round deep tins about size of your thumb, or use Angel 
Cake Kecipe N"o. 647, bake in shallow tins, cut in squares, glaze 
with beaten egg-white and sugar, using very little sugar, cover 
with D. 

No. 66^. Cream Cakes en Surprise. ^o cts. 

A : Delicate Cake No. 650 ; 

B : Cream or Chocolate Filling in No. 666, or whipped 

cream highly flavored ; 

C : Boiled Frosting No. 698, or Foudant No. 703. 
Bake A in small deep round tins, when done, cut out a 
piece from top of each, take out crumbs, leaving a box with 
walls i of an inch thick, fill with B, replace cover, and dip in 
C ; or mix whipped cream with custard, or jam may be mixed 
with cream or custard. 

217 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 666. Cream Paffs and Eclaifs. 28 cts. 

A : 4 tbsps. butter, 1 c. boiling water, 1 tsp. sugar, \ tsp. 

salt; 

B : 1^ cs. pastry flour ; 

C : 3 eggs. 
Cook A until boiling, add B gradually, stirring constantly, 
remove from fire, stir until partly cool, add C, one at a time, 
beating thoroughly between each one, drop from spoon or 
press through pastry-bag on buttered and floured tin 2 inches 
apart, form in round balls for puffs, or in long and narrow 
fingers for Eclairs. Bake 30 m., when cold, split open near 
the top and fill with 

Coffee, Chocolate, or Cream Fillingf. 

A : 2 cs. hot milk, pour over 3 egg-yolks, beaten thick, 
with 3 tbsps. corn-starch or 4 of flour, f c. sugar, dash salt ; 
B : 1 tbsp. vanilla, for cream filling, or 1 tsp. vanilla and 
2 oz. melted chocolate, or \ c. strong coffee. 

Mix A thoroughly, cook until thick, stirring constantly, 
then simmer 20 m., add B, mix, and cool, fill puffs or 6clairs, 
cover the eclairs with coffee, maple, or vanilla frosting to 
match filling. 

No. 66y. Crullers. 20 cts. 

A : Cream J c. butter, add 1 c. sugar, and 2 egg-yolks, 
beaten thick ; 

B : 3 cs. flour, 3 tsps. baking-powder, dash salt, 1 tsp. 
vanilla, -J- tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. nutmeg and 1 c. milk ; 
C : 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff. 

Cream A, add B alternately, fold in C, add enough flour to 
roll out thin, cut into oblong squares, cut 4 gashes through 
centre, lengthwise, run fingers in and out of gashes to sepa- 
rate, fry in deep hot fat, drain and roll in powdered sugar ; or 
flavor with grated rind of 1 orange, and cut in rings, fry, 
and cover while warm, with the orange-juice mixed with 
powdered sugar. 

218 



CAKES 



No. 668, Molasses Cakes. 12 cts. 

A : Cream \ c. butter, add \ c. granulated sugar, 1 c. 
very dark molasses, J c. sour milk, \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. 
ginger, \ tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. each cloves and nutmeg ; 
B : 1 tsp. soda, sifted with 1 c. flour and enough flour 
to make very soft dough ; 
C : Confectioners' Sugar Frosting No. 699. 

Mix A thoroughly, add B, roll out \ inch thick, cut in 
round cakes, and bake, when cool cover with C. 

No. 66g. Sogfar Cookies or Jombles. 28 cts. 

A : Cream 1 c. butter, add 2 cs. sugar, 3 eggs, beaten 
slightly, f c. milk, \ tsp. nutmeg, 1 tsp. vanilla ; 
B : 2 tsps. baking-powder, sifted with 1 c. flour, adding 
enough flour to make very soft dough ; 

Mix A thoroughly, add B, roll out \ inch thick, using as 
little flour as possible, cut, and bake, remove from oven as 
soon as done, sprinkle with granulated sugar, put 1 raisin in 
each cookie ; you may use sour milk and \ tsp. soda instead of 
baking-powder. For jumbles, cut with hole in centre. 



AFTERNOON TEA CAKES 

No. 670. Almond Drops. i^ cts. 

A : 5 egg-whites, beaten very stiff ; 

B : J c. flour, \ c. flne granulated sugar, and \ tsp. cream 

of tartar ; 

C : \ tsp. almond extract, \ tsp. rose-water. 

Sift B 3 times, fold in A, add C, drop from tip of spoon 
on buttered or waxed paper, bake 10 m. in slow oven. 

No. 6yj. Almond Sand Cakes. 52 cts. 

A : Cream 1 J cs. butter, add 2J cs. sugar, 1 whole egg, 
and 3 yolks, add 4 cs. flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon ; 
B : i lb. almonds, blanched, and split in two ; 
219 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

C : 2 egg-whites, beaten slightly ; 

D : Granulated sngar, then powdered cinnamon. 

Beat A thoroughly, roll out very thin on a marble slab, 
cut in hearts or diamonds, brush with C, put one of B in each 
corner, brush with again, sprinkle centre with D, bake in 
quick oven. This recipe will make about 12 doz. When cold, 
pack in a tin box, when needed, crisp in a hot oven 1 m,. 
These will keep for weeks. 

No. 6'/2. Almond Strips. 2^ cts. 

A : 1 c. almonds, chopped fine and mixed with 1 egg- 
white, slightly beaten, 2 tbsps. powdered sugar ; 
B : Puff Paste No. 541. 

EoU B very thin, 3 inches wide and 10 inches long, cover 
with A, cut into inch strips, bake until light brown. 

No. 6^ J. Babas. J5 cis. 

A : J yeast-cake, dissolved in J c, warm milk, J c. flour, 
put in warm place until very light, then add | c. butter, 
creamed, J c. granulated sugar, 3 eggs, one by one, beat- 
ing thoroughly, grated peel 1 lemon ; 
B : 2 cs. flour, 1 c. currants and seeded raisins ; 
C : 1 c. sugar, ^ c. water, boil until it threads, add \ c. 
rum. 

Mix A thoroughly, beat 10 m., add B, fill a round mould, 
with hole in centre, half full, put in warm place until double 
its bulk, bake in moderate oven | of an hour, turn out of 
pan, cover with 0. Serve hot, with whipped cream in centre, 
for dessert, or serve cold, without cream, for afternoon tea, 
or omit currants or raisins, form into thin sticks, 3 or 4 
inches long, let rise 15 m., glaze with white of egg, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon, bake 10 m. 

No. 6y4. Chocolate Chips. 20 cis. 

A •. J c. butter, cream, add 1 c. sugar and 2 eggs ; 
B : 4 tbsps. melted chocolate, 1 tsp. vanilla, flour enough 
to make a soft batter, about 1 c. 
220 



CAKES 

Beat A thoroughly, add B, ponr in narrow greased pan, in 
very thin layers, bake quickly, brush with egg-white, cut into 
strips while hot, and serve cold ; or cover saltines with melted 
chocolate, mixed with a tiny bit of butter. 

No. 6^^. Chocolate Drops. i8 cts. 

A : ^ 0. powdered sugar, 4 squares of Baker's chocolate, 

grated, \ tsp. vanilla ; 

A : 3 egg-whites, beaten vei'y stiff. 

Mix A, fold in B, drop on buttered paper from teaspoon, 
bake in slow oven. 

No. 6/6. Cinnamon Bars. 20 cts. 

A : 1 lb. light-brown sugar, 4 eggs ; 

B : J c. blanched almonds, shredded, peel 1 lemon, 

grated, 1 tbsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. ground cloves ; 

C : 1 lb. flour. 

Cream A J an hour, add B, mix thoroughly, add 0, roll 
out very thin, cut in long bars, and bake until brown. 

No. 6jy. Flakes. 8 cts. 

A : 3 egg-yolks, beaten, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. cinnamon, 

flour. 

Make A thick enough with flour to roll very thin, cut in 

long, narrow strips, fry in very hot fat in dripping-pan, when 

done, dust with powdered sugar. These are better if rolled 

on marble. 

No. 6/8. Graham Sand Cakes. 75 cts. 

A : ^ c. butter, cream, add 1 c. brown sugar, white 1 
egg, I c. water ; 

B : 2 tsps. baking-powder, sifted with \ c. white flour, 
and enough graham flour to roll out ; 
C : 1 c. peanuts, chopped fine, sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon. 
Mix A thoroughly, add B, roll thin, cut into squares, glaze 
with egg, cover with 0, and bake. 

231 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. Syg, Lady-fingers. j6 cis. 

A : 6 egg-whites, beaten very stiff, add | c. of powdered 

sugar ; 

B : 4 egg-yolks, beaten thick, § c. flour and dash salt, 

sifted twice. 
Beat B thoroughly, fold in A, press from pastry tube on 
buttered or waxed paper in long, narrow fingers, dust with 
powdered sugar, and bake 8 m. in slow oven. 

No. 68o. Macaroons. 20 cts. 

A : \\ cs. almond-meal or powder, and 3 egg-whites, 
beaten stifE. 

Mix A gradually until quite thick, add more powder if 
necessary, drop from teaspoon on butter, bake 15 or 20 m. in 
slow oven. 

No. 68 1. Peanut Cookies. 20 cts. 

A : Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add \ c. granulated sugar, 3 
egg-yolks, beat thoroughly, add 4 tbsps. milk, \ tsp. salt, 

1 tsp. lemon-juice ; 

B : \\ tsp. baking-powder and 1 c. flour, sifted twice, 

2 cs. chopped peanuts. 

Beat A thoroughly, drop from spoon on buttered paper or 
tin, place whole peanut in centre of each. Bake 13 m. in 
slow oven. 

No. 682. Pottnd Cakes, Love's Wells, or ^o cis. 
Madelaines. 
Pound Cakes: 

A : Cream 1 c. butter, add 1 c. sifted granulated sugar, 

5 egg-yolks, beaten until thick ; 

B : 2 cs. sifted flour, 3 tsps. flavoring ; 

C : Egg-whites, beaten stifE ; 

D : i c. jelly, jam, or marmalade ; 

E : Candied fruit, angelica, or nuts. 

Beat A about 30 m., add B, beat 10 m., fold in C, fill 3 
square pans in layers | inch thick and bake in slow oven 30 m. 

223 



CAKES 

When cool, spread 1 layer with D, cover with the other layer, 
cut in very small squares or fancy shapes, cover with frosting, 
and garnish with E. These may be dipped in Fondant No. 
703, colored and flavored. 

Love's "Wells: Cut or bake in round cakes, cut with 
smaller cutter nearly to the bottom, dip in frosting, fill with 
marmalade or whipped cream sweetened and mixed with 
candied fruits or chopped almonds. 

Madelaines : Drop dough from tip of spoon on buttered 
tin several inches apart, when baked, spread with D, put two 
together, and dip in frosting ; or use the following mixture 

A : 1 c. butter, cream, add 1| cs. flour, juice and rind 1 

lemon ; 

B : IJ c. granulated sugar, 1 c. eggs, about 6. 

Cream A, beat thoroughly, add B, beat again and bake in 
small patty-pans J an hour, cover with frosting. 

No. 68 J. Poff-paste Dainties. 2^ cts. 

A : Puff Paste No. 541 ; 

B : J c. powdered sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon or \ c. chopped 

almonds. 

EoU A very thin, sprinkle with B, fold and roll again, re- 
peat twice, cut into long, narrow pieces or sticks, or fancy 
shapes, brush with beaten egg, bake, and serve cold ; or, 
omit almonds and cinnamon, cut paste in fancy shapes and 
put two together with cream, lemon, or orange filling, or use 
marmalade. 

No. 68^. Rock Cakes. ^o cts. 

A : Cream 1 c. butter, add 1 c. granulated sugar, sifted, 
2 eggs, beat thoroughly, add 1 c. sifted flour, mixed with 
\ tsp. baking-powder ; 

B : J lb. currants or seeded raisins, \ lb. chopped al- 
monds or English walnuts, 3 tbsps. brandy. 
Beat A 15 m., add B and enough flour to make soft batter, 
drop from spoon on buttered paper, and bake in quick oven. 

233 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 68 s- Rolled "Wafets. 15 cis. 

A : J c. butter, cream, J c. powdered sugar, 2 eggs, 3 
tbsps. cream, 1 tsp. flavoring ; 
B : I c. flour, or enough to make rather stiff batter ; 
C : J c. shredded almonds. 

Beat A, add B, mix thoroughly, color with Burnett's 
paste, spread very thin on buttered tin sheet with a knife, in 
patches, 3 by 4 inches, sprinkle with C, bake in slow oven, 
remove from tin while warm, curl into rolls over round 
sticks. 

CAKE nLLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

No. 686. Caramel Filling. 12 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. butter, f c. cream, \ c. sugar ; 

B : 4 tbsps. caramel or burnt sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Boil A until it threads, add B, when cool fill and cover 
cakes. 

No. 68y. Chocolate Fillingf. 10 cis. 

A : 3 oz. melted chocolate, 3 tbsps. cream ; 

B : 1 egg, well beaten, mix with f c. powdered sugar, 

dash salt, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Add A to B, cook until thick, stirring constantly, when 
cool fill and cover cakes. 

No. 688. Coffee Filling. 10 cts. 

A : 1 c. hot milk, | tsp. butter or dash salt ; 

B : 3 egg-yolks, beaten, \ c. powdered sugar, 2 tbsps. 

corn-starch ; 

C : I c. very strong, black coffee. 

Mix B, add A slowly, return to flre, and cook until boiling, 
add C, cook until thick, when cool fill cakes, and cover with 
Coffee Frosting No. 701. 

234 



CAKES 



No. 68g. Cocoanut Fillingf. lo cts. 

A : 1 c. grated fresh cocoanut, or dried cocoaniit soaked 
in milk, juice and grated rind of 1 small lemon ; 
B : Boiled Frosting No. 698. 

Add A to B, fill, and cover cakes. 

No. 6go. Cream Fillingf. lo cts. 

A : 1^ cs. hot milk, 1 tsp. butter, or dash salt ; 
B : 3 eggs, beaten, ^ c. powdered sugar, 3 tbsps. corn- 
starch ; 

C : 1 tsp. of any of the flavoring extracts or 1 tbsp. of 
cordial. 

Add A to B, cook 10 m., stirring constantly, remove from 
fire, when cool, add C, spread between cakes, and cover with 
frosting. 

No. 6gi. Date Filling. /j cts. 

A : J lb. dates ; 

B : J c. cream, whipped very stiff, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice ; 

C : Boiled Frosting No. 698. 

Scald, dry, stone, and chop A, add B, fill cakes, cover 
withC. 

No. 6g2. Maple Syrop Filling. js cts. 

A : 1 c. maple syrup ; 

B : 1 egg-white, beaten stiff. 

Boil A until it threads, add slowly to B, beat until cool, 
fill cakes. To cover cake on top and sides, double this recipe. 

No. 6gj. Marshmallow Filling. lo cts. 

A : 5 tbsps. very clean gum arable, J c. cold water, dis- 
solve, add h c. powdered sugar ; 
B : 1 egg-white, beaten very stiff. 

Cook A until thick enough to form soft ball, when put in 
cold water, strain, and pour slowly into B, beating constantly, 

335 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

flavor with 1 tsp. vanilla and a few drops lemon-juice, cover 
cake, smooth with knife, dipped in hot water ; or 

A : ^ lb. marshmallows ; 

B : Boiled Frosting No. 698. 
Put A in oven ]ust long enough to puff them, arrange on 
top of cake, pour over B, when cold, cut in squares between 
the marshmallows. 

No. 6g^. Nougat or Nut Filling. i6 cts. 

A : 1 c. nut-meats, cut very fine, add to 1 egg-yolk, 
beaten thick, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, \ c. cream, 
whipped, and egg-white, beaten very stiff, dash salt ; 
B : Boiled Frosting No. 698. 
Add A to B, fill and cover cakes. 

No. 6g§. Orange Filling. lo cts. 

A : Juice and grated rind 1 orange, 1 tsp. lemon-juice, 1 
tsp. orange extract ; 

B : 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff, \ c. powdered sugar, 1 tsp. 
gelatine, dissolved in little warm water, or 
C : Cream Filling No. 690. 
Add A to B, or C, fill cakes, cover with Boiled Frosting No. 
698, garnish with candied orange quarters and white grapes. 

No. 6g6. Pineapple Filling. 75 cts. 

A : ^ c. grated pineapple, \ c. pecan nuts, chopped ; 
B : Boiled Frosting No. 698, or Confectioners' Sugar 
Frosting No. 699 ; 

C : 1 tbsp. gelatine, dissolved in hot pineapple juice, 3 
tbsps. sugar, 1 tsp. lemon-juice. 
Mix A with B or C, spread between cakes, cover with frost- 
ing. 

No. 6gy. Peach Filling. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. peach-pulp ; 

B : 1 c. whipped cream, \ c. powdered sugar, or Cream 
Filling No. 690. 
Mix A with B, fill cakes, cover with boiled frosting, colored 
pink, sprinkle with chopped almonds. 

236 



CAKES 



FROSTINGS 

No. 6g8. Boiled Frosting. 6 cts. 

A : 1 c. fine granulated sugar, \ c. hot water ; 

B : 1 large egg-white, \ tsp. cream of tartar ; 

C : 1 tsp. flavoring extract, or 1 tbsp. cordial. 
Boil A without stirring until it threads, pour slowly into B, 
beating constantly, until thick enough to spread, add C, and 
cover cake while warm. 

No. 6gg. Confectioners' Sugar Frosting. 8 cts. 

A : 1 c. confectioners' sugar XXXX. ; 

B •- 1 large egg-white, 1 tsp. flavoring extract, or 1 tbsp. 

cordial, 1 tsp. water, or flavor with fruit- juice. 

Add A to B slowly, beat until thick, use no water or flavor- 
ing if fruit-juice is used ; or 

A : If cs. sugar, \\ cs. water ; 
B : ^ c. confectioners' sugar. 
Boil A 15 m., add B, or only enough to dissolve, stir, add 
flavoring and cover cakes while warm. 

No. yoo. Caramel Frosting. 12 cts. 

A : 1 c. brown sugar, \ c. cream, dash salt ; 
B : 2 tbsps. caramel or burnt sugar. 
Boil A without stirring 5 m., add B, cover cake while warm. 

No. 'jor. Coffee Frosting. 8 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. very strong coffee, add to Boiled or Confec- 
tioners' Sugar Frosting, cover cakes while warm. 

No. yo2. Chocolate Frosting. 10 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. grated chocolate or rich cocoa ; 
B : Boiled or Confectioners' Frosting ; 
C : 3 tbsps. cream, 3 tbsps. sugar, \ tsp. butter, and 1 
tsp. vanilla. 
Add A to B, or melt it with C, cover cakes while warm. 

827 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. yoj. Fondant. 6 cts. 

A : 3 cs. sugar, 1 c. water, J tsp. cream of tartar ; 
B : 1 tbsp. flavoring, little water if necessary. 

Boil A until a soft ball can be formed in cold water, cool 
slightly, turn out on marble, knead until creamy, cool, when 
ready to use, melt, add B, dip cakes quickly, using skewers 
for the purpose. 

No. yo^. Maple Sugar Frosting. i£ cts. 

A : \Va. maple sugar, scraped, \ c. boiling water ; 
B : 1 egg-white, beaten stiff. 

Melt A, boil without stirring until it threads, add slowly to 
B, and beat until thick enough to spread. 

No. yo^. Nut Frosting. /^ cts. 

A : 1 c. nuts, chopped fine ; 

B : Boiled or Confectioners' Frosting. 

Add A to B, or use cream instead of water in boiled frost- 
ing, flavor with almond or pistachio extract. 

No. yo6. Pineapple Frosting. 12 cfs. 

A : 2 cs. confectioners' sugar, sifted thoroughly, \ c. hot 
pineapple-juice, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice. 

Beat A thoroughly, and cover cake when cold ; cake should 
be in layers pat together with grated pineapple. 





^^^^ 


e|/ \. 


i I HbF IB J2, T jT \ 




After the dessert is removed serve black coffee, 
which should be clear and very strong. It may be 
poured on the table by the hostess 
or sent in from the butler's pantry. 
The cups, which are very small, 
should only be three-quarters full, 
and should be placed in front of 
each guest. Crystal or lump sugar 
should be passed to the left, accompanied by a tiny 
jug of cream, if cream is served. As the object of 
taking black coffee is to aid digestion, the addition of 
cream is injurious, and, therefore, unnecessary. If the 
hostess pours the coffee, the pot containing it and the 
cups should be placed in front of her on a tray. 

Now place a finger-bowl in front of each guest, 
slightly to the left. They should be arranged and 
placed on the side-table before the meal is announced. 
Use the handsomest small plates you possess. Place a 
dainty doily, smaller than the plate and one that will 
wash, upon each plate, under the finger-bowl, which 
should be half-filled with cold water, adding a geran- 
ium-leaf, slice of lemon, or a flower, if you like. If 
fruit is to be served it should precede the coffee, and 
a small plate, holding a fruit-knife, should be placed 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

in front of each guest. Occasionally cheese, wafers, 
and celery are served instead of fruit. Bonbons 
should be served just before guests leave 
table. 

formal dinner the finger-bowls are 
placed directly after the dessert 
or fruit, after which the ladies 
leave the table, the hostess, of 
course, rising first. Then the cof- 
fee is served to the ladies in the drawing-room ; the 
gentlemen remaining at the table are served at the 
same time. Cigars, liqueurs, and cordials in very 
small decanters are then placed on the table for the 
gentlemen to help themselves. A small decanter, con- 
taining cordial, is brought into the drawing-room on 
a tray, accompanied with cordial-glasses and a glass 
dish of finely pounded ice. 

Cordials are alcoholic liquors, usually very 
sweet and of high flavor and delicate per- 
fume. They are always served after black 
coJBfee in tiny glasses holding scarcely more 
than a tablespoonful. In serving any of the 
cremes, the glasses should be filled with ice 
pounded very fine, as they are rich and 
heavy, and require dilution. The ordi- 
nary cordial or liqueur is served with- 
out ice. Imported cordials are usual- 
ly served, but the recipes given below 
are a good imitation, quite inexpen- 
sive, and may easily be made at home. The fashion of 
serving coffee and cordials in the drawing-room is one 

230 





COFFEE AND CORDIALS 

of choice. At a ladies' luncheon, however, while it 
is an aid to sociability, it is not necessary, as there are 
no men, cigars, and strong drinks to leave behind. 

No. yoy. After-dinner Coffee. Z2 cts. 

A : f c. freshly powdered coffee ; 
B : 3 OS. boiling water. 

Put A in a French pot or in a strainer 
fined with cloth, several inches from bot- 
tom of pot, place on back of range, pour 
in B, when percolated through, pour 
through again carefully. Draw pot to 
front of range and boil 2 m., or follow 
Eecipe No. 712, using 3 cs. water instead 
of 6. Serve at once. 

No. yo8. ChcM-y or Grape Cordial. $1-36. 

A : 5 lbs. sour cherries or grapes and 2 qts. French 

brandy or spirits ; 

B : 2 scant lbs. sugar, 1^ pts. water. 

Put A in demijohn, cork for 6 weeks, then boil B 5 m., 
when nearly cold, add liquor from demijohn. Strain and 
bottle. 

No. yog. Orange Cordial. Si-jo. 

A : Yellow peel from 9 large oranges cut in small pieces. 
Follow method No. 708, using A instead of cherries. 

No. yio. Raspterry Cordial. $i.2£. 

Follow recipe No. 708, using black raspberries instead of 
cherries, or an excellent method may be found in the Nation- 
al Cook Book, page 475. 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Wines, and How to Serve Them, 

With oysters, serve sauternes slightly cold in the bottle, 
decanter, or glass pitcher. 

With soups, serve sherry, slightly cold in decanters. 
With fish, serve Khine wine, rather cold in bottle. 

With entr6es, serve claret, slightly cold, in de- 
canters. 

With meats and poultry, serve champagne, very 
cold in the bottle, or from a glass pitcher immedi- 
ately. 

Champagne should be placed on ice several hours 
before serving. 

With game, serve Burgundy, slightly warm, in 
the bottle or glass pitcher. 

With salads, serve Burgundy and champagne. 
With desserts, serve port wine or Madeira, even 
temperature, in the bottle. 

With coffee, serve cordials and brandies from 
small decanters, in liqueur-glasses. If you use any 
of the crimes, fill the glasses with powdered ice before pour- 
ing in the cordials. 




232 



i 


^Si|^fBEVEfA§ES|i; 


i 



No. yii. 



HOT BEVERAGES 
Chocolate. 



A : 1 qt. hot milk, or 3 cs. milk and 1 c. hot 
water, 1-inch stick cinnamon ; 
B : 4 tbsps. chocolate or very rich cocoa and 
3 tbsps. sugar, or 2 bars Maillard's chocolate, 
which is sweet, 1 tbsp. arrowroot or corn-starch ; 
C : 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tsp. sherry, dash salt ; 
D : 1 c. whipped cream. 

Pour A over B, simmer 10 m., add C, beat with 
Dover egg-beater 5 m. Serve with 
spoonful of D on each cup. 1 c. 
strong, clear coffee may be added, 
as it gives a peculiar flavor much 
appreciated by lovers of coffee. 



24 cts. 





No. '/12. Coifee, Boiled. 12 cts. 

A : 1 c. freshly ground coffee, 1 egg-white and mashed 
shell, 1 c. cold water or coffee left from day before ; 
B : 6 cs. cold water ; 
C : 2 tbsps. cold water. 

Mix A, put in a thoroughly clean pot, add 
B, heat gradually until boiling, put a piece of 
cloth in spout to keep aroma in, boil 5 m. 
Add C, draw pot to back of range, in 2 m. 
serve. After serving, strain coffee from the 
grounds into a glass jar, put the cover on tight, and it is 
ready to use instead of water for the next day's coffee. 

233 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. yij. OAe,t, Mulkd. j2 cts. 

A : 1 qt. cider, 1 tsp. whole allspice, \ tsp. cassia buds ; 
B : 3 eggs, beaten thoroaghly. 

Boil A 3 m., add to B, carefully. Serve hot. 

No. yi^. Shewy, Mulled. j>j cts. 

A : 1 c. boiling water, 1 tbsp. broken stick cinnamon, 1 

doz. cloves, i doz. cassia buds ; 

B : 4 eggs, beaten until light, \ c. sugar ', 

C : 1 c. hot sherry. 

Boil A 1 m., add to B gradually, stirring constantly, add 
C, and serve. 



No. 715. 



Qaret Punch. 



$1.15. 



A : 1 qt. Bordeaux or claret, juice and grated peel 3 or- 
anges, 6 cloves, 6 cassia buds, stick cinnamon ; 
B : I c. sugar. 

Mix A, after 12 hours add B. Strain, heat, and serve. 




No. yi6. Russian Tea. 10 cts. 

A : 4 tsps. tea. A good mixture 
is 8 oz. Formosa Oolong, 6 of 
Ceylon, and 2 of English Break- 
fast tea, and the dried peel of 1 
orange cut into bits ; 
B : 1 qt. freshly boiling water ; 

C : I tsp. sugar-crystals, 
I tsp. Jamaica rum, \ 

f/' .liinm ^^^^ lemon, and 1 pre- 
//.' -JiiHllln served cherry or straw- 
berry. 

Pour B over A, cover for 
4 m., serve with C in each 
cup. 
334 




HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS 



COLD DRINKS 
No. yiy. Iced-tea Punch. jj cts. 

A : 6 tsps. tea (see mixture in No. 716) ; 

B : 1 qt. freshly boiling water ; 

C : I c. granulated sugar, 6 tbsps. lemon-juice, 1 lemon 

and 1 orange, sliced thin, 1 qt. fresh strawberries, 2 cs. 

pounded ice ; 

I) : 1 bunch fresh mint dusted with powdered sugar ; 

E : 1 pt. carbonated water, Apollinaris or champagne. 
Pour B over A, steep 5 m., strain, when cold pour in pitch- 
er containing C, fill mouth of pitcher with D, when ready 
to serve add B. 



No. yi8. 



Champagfne Punch. 

FOE 20 PERSONS. 



$3-30 



A ; 3 pts. plain soda, 2 qts. American champagne ; 
B : J c. each brown curacoa, brandy, sherry, and maras- 
chino, 1 small, nnpeeled cucumber, cut in slices, large 
piece of ice. 
Mix B, when ready to serve, add A. 



No. yig. Champagne Fruit Punch 

FOR 20 PERSONS. 

A : 2 qts. champagne, 
large piece of ice, 1 
pt. plain soda or Apol- 
linaris ; 

B : 1 pineapple, 12 or- 
anges, 6 lemons, cut in 
slices, 1 c. white grapes 
cut in halves, 1 c. 
strawberries, 1 c. mar- 
aschino cherries, ^ c. 
yellow Chartreuse, \ 
c. brandy. 
Mix B 2 or 3 hours be- 
fore needed, when ready to 
serve, add A. 



$S.6o. 




THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. ^20. Claret Punch. $I.6y, 

FOR 20 PERSONS. 

A : 3 qts. claret, large piece ice ; 

B : 6 lemons, sliced, 2 doz. whole cloves, 1 c. sugar ; 

C : 2 qts. Apollinaris, or use 1 qt. and more claret. 

Mix B 12 hours before needed, then add A, when ready to 

serve add C. 

No. y2i. Qarct and Tea Punch. $l.8o. 

FOR 20 PERSOKS. 

A : 3 qts. claret, 2 cs. strong infusion of English Break- 
fast tea ; 

B : 1 c. sugar, juice 4 lemons, ^ c. curagoa or maraschino, 
large piece of ice. 

Mix B, add A, and serve. 
No. y22. Currant Punch. 50 cts. 

FOR 20 PERSONS. 

A : 2 cs. currant jelly, 1 c. sugar, 3 qts. water ; 

B : 3 lemons and 3 oranges, sliced, large piece of ice. 

Boil A 5 m., strain, when cool add to B. 
No. ^2^. Fruit Punch. ^5 cts. 

FOR 20 PERSONS. 

A : 1 c. each pineapple, strawberries, red raspberries, 

bananas, white grapes, and maraschino cherries, 6 

oranges and 6 lemons, sliced ; 

B : 2 cs. cold water, 1 c. sugar ; 

C : Large piece ice, 2 qts. seltzer water. 

Boil B 10 m., strain, add A, when ready to serve add C. 
No. J 2 4. Rum Punch, with Fruit. $i.^5- 

FOR 20 PERSONS. 

A : 1 qt. rum, 4 oranges, 4 lemons, and 1 pineapijle, 
sliced, 1 qt. strawberries, 2 cs. sugar, 1 pt. strong infusion 
of tea, 1 pt. sherry ; 

B : Large piece ice, 3 pts. plain soda or Apollinaris. 
336 



HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS 

Mix A several hours before needed, when ready to serve 
addB. 

No. ^25. White "Wine Punch. ^3-95' 

FOR 20 PERSONS. 

A : 2 qts. white wine, 1 pt. claret, J c. brandy, J c. Bene- 
dictine or Chartreuse, 2 oranges, sliced, juice 3 lemons, 1 
small unpeeled cucumber, cut in two, and sliced thin ; 
B : 1 c. sugar, 2 cs. water, 1 stick cinnamon, 2 cloves ; 
C : Large piece ice, 1 qt. champagne. 

Boil B 5 m., when cold add A, when ready to serve add 0. 

No. J26. A Few G)cktails. 25 to 60 cts. 

Put all ingredients in a glass or silver mixer, add 1 c. finely 
pounded ice, shake thoroughly, and strain into 6 small glasses, 
serve just before dinner in the drawing-room or at table be- 
fore the first course. 

Grape Froh : | c. grape-fruit juice, \ c. sherry, 1 tbsp. rum. 

Manhattan: i c. Italian Vermouth, J c. whiskey, 1^ tsps. 
Baker's bitters, J tsp. gum syrup, serve with a brandied cherry 
in each glass, or omit syrup and serve with olives instead of 
cherries. 

Martini : i c. Tom gin, \ c. Italian Vermouth, 1 tsp. orange 
bitters, serve with a curled lemon-peel in each glass, or rub 
rim of glass with lemon zest, then dip in powdered sugar. 

Orange : Juice of 2 oranges and 1 small lemon or lime, 4 
tbsps. brandy, 1 tsp. sugar, \ pt. club soda. 

Strawberry : 12 large strawberries, mashed, 1 tbsp. mara- 
schino, 1 tsp. orange bitters, 1 c. brandy, serve one strawberry 
in each glass. 

Rum: f c. Jamaica mm, ^ tsp. gum syrup, 1 tsp. An- 
gostura bitters, 4 tbsps. lemon- juice, serve in lemon skins, re- 
move top and pulp, cut off piece from bottom to make them 
stand, serve with straws. 

837 




All of the following accessories should be served 
with their respective courses, except the salted nuts 
or popcorn, bonbons and olives, celery or radishes. 
The three latter should be removed just before dessert 
is served. A few suggestions about bonbons may be 
of some use to the young housekeeper : Brandied 
cherries dipped in fondant, marrons or fruits glace, 
marrons or fruits deguise, or chocolates, any of these 
in tiny paper cases ; or peppermints or small candies 
filled with liqueurs, are the first choice. If these are 
not obtainable, select cheaper candies with artistic 
coloring, but perfectly fresh. 

A new way of preparing almonds is to brown them 
in a syrup made of 1 c. brown sugar to i c. water, and 
serve them as a bonbon. 



No. 727. Almonds oi- Nots, Salted. 50 cts. 

A : 1 lb. almonds, pecans, filberts, or peanuts ; 
B : 1 c. boiling olive oil ; or 
C ; 1 egg-white slightly beaten. 

Cover A with boiling water, remove skins, 
soak for several hours in strong salt water, 
drain and dry, and plunge into B until brown, 
drain on paper ; or roll them in C, and brown in oven, or 
omit B and C and brown them in the oven until dry. 

238 




SOME ACCESSORIES 



No. 728. 



A : 1 cake compressed yeast, 

water, 1 tbsp. flour ; 

B : 1 c. milk, mixed with 1 

water, 1 tsp. butter ; 

C : Spring wheat flour, 1 tsp. 



Bread Sticks. 6 cts. 

1 tsp. sugar, \ c. warm 
c. hot water, or % c. warm 
salt. 



DissolTe A in a cup, when the 
cup is full add to B, then add C, 
stirring constantly, beat 15 m., 
adding enough flour to make it 
stifE enough to knead. Turn out 
on board, knead until it ceases to 
stick, place in bowl in tempera- 
ture 75 degrees for 3 hours, knead 

again, make into long, thin sticks or to fit bread-stick pans, 
let raise 10 m., brush with melted butter, and bake 10 m. 




Cheese Sticks or Straws. 



8 cts. 



No. /^p. 

A : 1 c. flour, 1 tsp. baking-powder, sifted, add 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, \ c. grated cheese, dash salt and cayenne, 
and enough milk to make a stiff dough. 

EoU A Tery thin, cut in narrow strips, roll in grated 
cheese, braid the strips together, bake on brown paper ; or use 
Puff Paste No. 541, roll thin, sprinkle with cheese and 
cayenne, and cut into strips, bake until brown ; or mix \ c. 
grated cheese with \ c. flour, 1 tsp. butter, dash salt and cay- 
enne, cold water enough to make light paste, roll very thin, 
cut into strips, brush with white of &g^, bake on paper in 
very hot oven ; or mix 1 c. grated cheese, J tsp. salt, dash 
cayenne, whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, with enough flour 
to hold together, form into long sticks, roll in fine cracker- 
dust, and fry in hot fat. Serve any of these with salad or at 
afternoon tea. 

339 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. yjo. Ci-outon Sticks. 5 cts. 

Cut bread into ^-inch slices, remove crust, spread slightly 
with butter on both sides, cut into strips \ inch wide, bake 
until light brown. Serve with cheese or soup, or salads. 

No. yji. Ltincheon Rolls. zo cts. 

A : 12 very thin slices bread without crust ; 
B : Butter rather soft. 

Spread A with B before cutting, cut into oblong strips, roll 
and fasten with wooden toothpick until ready to use. 

No. JJ2. Parmesan Wafers. ^ cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. Parmesan cheese, mix with \ tsp. mustard 

and dash cayenne ; 

B : 12 zepherettes spread with butter. 

Cover B with A, brown in oven, and serve hot. Serve with 
salads or at afternoon tea. 

No. 7S3- Pop Co"i> Salted. 10 els. 

A : 1 qt. freshly popped com, 1 tbsp. 
butter. 

Saute A until light brown, dust with 
salt, and serve as you would salted al- 
monds. 

No. J34. Pulled Bread. 10 cts. 

Remove crust from fresh bread, tear into small strips, brown 
in hot oven. Serve with cheese and salad. 

•^<^- 735- Scones. 12 cts. 

A : 2 cs. flour, 2 tsps. baking-powder, 1 tsp. salt, \ c. 
butter, 2 tbsps. sugar, 1 beaten egg, \ c. seedless raisins 
or currants. 

240 




SOME ACCESSORltiS 

Mix A, roll ^ inch thick, cut into rounds, bake in oven o 
on hot griddle, when done, split open, spread with butter, 
and serve on plate covered with doily, in the place of sand- 
wiches for afternoon tea or at luncheon. 

No. 7J<5. Stuffed Olhres. 2o cts. 

A : 13 large olives ; 
B : 4 anchovies, washed, boned, and 
minced with onion and parsley, or 
Spanish Force-meat No. 327. 

Stone A, soak \ an hour in lukewarm, 
water, then plunge in ice-water, dry, and 
fill with B. Olives stuffed with ancho- 
vies or sweet red peppers may be bought 
in bottles. The latter are called Pirn Olas. 




841 



i 


K^ftSlCHESfi 


M 







SANDWICHES FOR LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON 
FUNCTIONS, AND EVENING COLLATIONS 

Method. 

Use white, brown, graham, or entire wheat bread, 
cut into very thin slices, spread each slice with any of 
the Flavored Butters or soft plain butter, spread one 
slice with the mixture, cover with the other slice, 
press together, cut in fancy shapes, or roll. Wrap 
in waxed paper until ready to serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by 
filling baking-powder boxes half full of dough, let 
rise, and bake. Rolls may be used for afternoon re- 
ceptions, picnics or chafing-dish suppers. Cut out a 
piece from the tap, remove crumbs, leaving a shell, 
butter inside, fill with the mixture or salad, put on 
cover, and wrap each one in waxed paper until re- 
quired. Sandwiches for afternoon tea should be very 
small and always served on a dainty doily in a pretty 
plate or dish. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES 
JSTo. 7J7. Anchovy Sandwiches. 75 cis. 

A : Anchovy Butter No. 765, or plain butter, and 6 

anchovies ; 

B : 6 olives, stoned and chopped very fine. 

Spread white bread with A, then with B. 

342 



SANDWICHES 



No. yj8. Baked Bean Sandwiches. 6 cts. 

A : \ c. baked beans, press through a colander, mix 
with 1 tbsp. horseradish or tomato catsup, 1 tsp. each 
parsley and celery, minced fine, \ tsp. each onion-jnice 
and made mustard. 

Spread entire wheat bread with butter, then with A. 

No. yjg. Caviar Sandwiches. i8 cis. 

A : Caviar Butter No. 766, or plain butter, caviar, and 

lemon-juice ; 

B : 6 long narrow strips white bread. 

Spread B with A, roll and fasten with wooden toothpick 
until ready to serve. 

No. y^o. Celery Sandwiches. /^ cts. 

A : 1 c. celery, and 1 tbsp. apples, nuts, or olives, all 

minced very fine ; 

B : 2 tbsps. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Spread white bread with butter, then with A, thoroughly 
mixed with B. 

No. y^l. Cheese Sandwiches. 12 cts. 

A : Cheese Butter No. 767, or Savory Butter No. 777 ; or 

B : 2 tbsps. cream cheese, 2 tbsps. Eochefort, J tsp. 

paprica, rubbed smooth with 2 tbsps. cream ; or 

C : 3 tbsps. cream cheese and J c. walnut meats, chopped 

fine ; or 

D : 4 tbsps. cream cheese, 6 chopped olives, and white 

lettuce-leaves dipped in French Dressing No. 436 ; or 

E : I a cottage cheese, 1 tsp. anchovy essence, J tsp. 

paprica, or 1 tbsp. parsley, minced. 

Spread white bread with A ; or entire wheat bread or 
Kennedy biscuit with butter, then with B ; or white bread, 
spread with butter then with C ; or graham bread spread with 
butter, then with D ; or entire wheat bread spread with butter, 
then with E. 

343 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. J42. Chicken and Celery Sandwiches. 18 cts. 

A : ^ c. chicken and \ c. celery, miaced fine ; 
B : 2 tbsps. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Cut white bread into small round pieces, spread with 
butter, then with A mixed with B. 

No. y4S. Cucwmber Sandwiches. 10 cts. 

A : 1 cucumber, slice very thin, marinate in French 
Dressing No. 436, \ an hour, add 1 tsp. chopped chives ; 
B : Paprica Butter No. 768. 

Spread entire wheat bread with B, then with A. 

No. J44. Eggf Sandwiches. 8 cts. 

A : 3 hard-boiled eggs, yolks mashed smooth with 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, \ tsp. celery 
mustard, this may be bought in small glass jars ; 
B : Egg-whites, chopped fine. 

Spread bread with butter, then with A, then sprinkle with 
B, and cut in triangular pieces. 

No. 14$. Endive, Escarola, Lettuce, or "Water- 12 cts. 
cress Sandwiches. 

A : 1 bunch watercress or endive, chopped, or 1 head of 
lettuce or escarola cut to fit slices, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped, may be added ; 

B : French Dressing No. 436, or Mayonnaise Dressing 
No. 437. 

Spread white or graham bread with butter, then with B, 
then with A. 

No. ^46. Ham or Tongoc and Veal 75 cts. 

Sandwiches. 

A : I c. cooked ham or tongue, mixed with J c. cooked 
veal, all chopped fine ; 

B : 1 tsp. vinegar, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, ^ tsp. mustard 
344 



SANDWICHES 

1 tsp. horseradish or tomato catsup, mix thoroughly, add 
1 tbsp. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Spread white bread with butter, then with A mixed with B. 

No. y4y. Lobster Sandwiches. ^j cts. 

A : Lobster Butter No. 11% ; or 

B : 1 c. lobster meat, chopped rather fine and mixed 

with 2 tbsps. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Spread white bread with A, or spread with butter, then 
with B. 

No. y^8. Mock Crab Sandwiches. i^ cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. butter creamed ; 

B : J c. grated cheese, J tsp. each salt, paprica, and mus- 
tard, 1 tsp. each vinegar and anchovy paste, 1 tbsp. 
chopped olives or gherkins. 

Mix B thoroughly, add to A, spread white bread, cut in 
fancy slices. 

No. 7^p. Nastartiam Sandwiches. i^ cts, 

A : 1 doz. nasturtium blossoms ; 

B : 2 tbsps. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 

Spread white bread with B, then with A, and roll. 

No. y§0. Nut Sandwiches. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. almonds, peanuts, English walnuts, or pecans, 

chopped very fine ; 

B : 2 tbsps. Mayonnaise Cream Dressing No. 438. 

Spread entire wheat bread with butter, then with A mixed 
with B. 

No. 75/. Oyster Sandwiches. 30 cts. 

A : 6 cold, large oysters, fried ; 

B : Lettuce-leaves, dipped in French Dressing No. 436. 

Put A between B in buttered white bread, or spread bread 
with Mayonnaise, put A between slices. 

343 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 752. Pate de Foic Gras Sandwklies. 20 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. p^te de foie gras and 2 tbsps. finely chopped 
game or chicken, mixed thoroughly ; 
B : Lettuce-leaves, dipped in French Dressing No. 436. 
Spread buttered bread with A, put together with B. 

^^- 753' Sardine Sandwiches. 20 cts. 

A : Sardine Butter No. 776, 1 tbsp. olives or gherkins, 
chopped fine ; or, 

B : 1 doz. sardines, boned and skinned, 1 tsp. lemon- juice. 
Spread white bread with A or with butter, then with B. 

No. 75^. Savory Sandwiches. /j cts. 

A : I c. cooked chicken, lamb, or veal, 3 tbsps. grated 
cheese or Parmesan, 1 tsp. French mustard, salt, pap- 
rica, and cream ; 

B : Lettuce-leaves, dipped in French Dressing No. 436. 
Mix A until smooth, spread buttered bread, put together 
with B. 

^'^- 755' Shrimp Sandwiches. 2£ cts. 

A : 1 c. shrimps, shelled and mashed fine, 1 tbsp. lemon- 
juice ; 

B : 2 tbsps. Mayonnaise Dressing No. 437. 
Spread white bread with butter, then with A mixed with B. 

No. 75<5. Tartare Sandwiches. 75 cts. 

A : Tartare Butter No. 778 ; 

B : Lettuce-leaves, dipped in French Dressing No. 436. 

Spread entire wheat bread with A, put together with B. 

No. 757. Tfoffle Sandwiches. 23 cts. 

A: 1 tbsp. boiled truffles, 2 tbsps. chicken, 3 tbsps. 
sweet-breads, all chopped fine and mixed with Cream 
Mayonnaise Dressing No. 438. 
Spread white bread with A and cut in oblong pieces. 

246 



SANDWICHES 

SWEET SANDWICHES 

No. y^S. Banana Sandwiches. jo cts. 

A : 3 bananas, sliced and marinated in 2 tbsps. maras- 
chino, rum, or lemon- jaice ; 
B : 3 tbsps.' thick cream, sweetened with honey. 

Spread white bread with B, fill with A. 

No. y^g. Bananas and Red Raspfcerry jo cts. 

Sandwiches. 

A : J c. banana-pulp mixed with | c. red raspberries, 
mashed, 1 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsps. cream. 

Spread white bread with butter, then with A. 

No. y6o. Cocoanut Sandwiches. 75 cts. 

A : 1 c. freshly grated cocoanut, \ c. chopped nuts, 1 
tsp. rose-water or lemon-juice, 2 tbsps. sugar, mix thor- 
oughly ; 
B : 3 tbsps. thick cream. 

Spread bread with butter, then with A mixed with B. 

No. y6l. Date Sandwiches. 75 cts. 

A : J c. dates and \ c. English walnut-meats, chopped 
fine, and mixed with \ c. cream. 

Spread entire wheat-bread with butter, then with A, cut 
in rounds, and put \ an English walnut-meat dipped in white 
of egg on the top of each sandwich. 

No. ^<5^. Jam or Jelly Sandwiches. 8 cts. 

A : i c. jelly, jam, or marmalade ; 

B : J c. English walnut-meats, chopped fine. 

Spread buttered bread with A, then with B. 

247 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. y6j. Ginger and Ofange Sandwiches. lo cts. 

At^ c. preserved ginger and candied orange-peel, 

chopped fine ; 

B : 3 tbsps. thick cream. 

Spread bread with B, fill with A. 

No. ^64. Maraschino Chei*y Sandwiches. 20 cts. 

A : i c. maraschino cherries, cut in small pieces ; 
B : J c. nut-meats, chopped fine. 

Spread buttered bread with A, then with B. 

FLAVORED BUTTERS 
For Canapes, Sandwiches, and Sauces. 

Method. 

Cream plain butter or fresh butter made without salt, add 
flavoring, beat until smooth and thoroughly blended, pack in 
jars, cover, and keep on ice until needed. 

No. y6§. Anchovy Batter. 8 cts. 

A : 4 anchovies, boned and skinned, or 2 tbsps. anchovy 
paste, 1 tsp. lemon-juice, \ tsp. mustard, dash cayenne ; 
B : 2 tbsps. fresh butter. 

Cream B, add A, mix thoroughly. 

No. y66. Caviar Butter. 2£ cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. caviar paste, 1 tsp. lemon- juice, i tsp. 

paprica ; 

B : 2 tbsps. fresh butter. 

Cream B, add A. 

No. ySj. Cheese Butter. 8 cts. 

A : 3 tbsps. grated cheese or Parmesan, \ tsp. made 
mustard, \ tsp. paprica ; 

248 



SANDWICHES 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tbsp. chutney may be added if 
desired. 
Cream B, add A mixed thoroughly. 

No. y68. Chilly, Paprica, or Cutty Botten ^ cts. 

A : 1 tsp. chilly pepper, paprica, or curry powder ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter. 
Cream B, add A. 

No. y6g. Chatney Batter. 8 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. chutney, J tsp. French mustard, \ tsp. lemon- 
juice ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter. 
Cream B, add A. Chutneys may be bought in bottles for 
40 cts. 

No. 770. Flower or Fruit Matters. 8 cts. 

A : 2 cs. fresh flowers or fruit ; 

B : i c. fresh butter made without salt, hard and cold, 

wrap in waxed paper. 
Put layer of A in bottom of jar or covered dish, put in B, 
cover with remainder of A, cover jar or dish tightly, and 
leave for several hours in cold place. When needed take out 
B, remove paper, and spread on very thin slices of white 
bread. 

No. 77/. Horseradish Butter. g cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. horseradish, grated fine, 1 tsp. lemon-juice 
or tarragon vinegar ; 
B: 3 tbsps. butter. 
Cream B, add A well mixed. 

No. •/y2. Lobster Butter. 12 cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. lobster-meat, pounded fine, 1 tbsp. coral, 
dried and mashed smooth, \ tsp. anchovy paste, \ tsp. 

Eaprica, 1 tsp. lemon-juice, dash nutmeg or mace ; 
1 : 2 tbsps. butter. 
Cream B, add A, thoroughly blended. 

249 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

^(>- 773' Olive Butter. 10 cts. 

A : 6 stoned olives, chopped fine, or 6 Pim Olas, 1 tsp. 
anchovy essence or paste ; 
B : 2 tbsps. fresh butter. 

Cream B, add A, thoroughly mixed. Pim Olas are olives 
stoned and stuffed with sweet red peppers and may be bought 
in pint bottles for 35 cts. 

No. yy^. Parsley or Chive Batter. 6 cts. 

A : 1 tbsp. chopped parsley, \ tsp. chives or onion, 
chopped, or omit parsley and use 2 tbsps. chives ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter. 

Cream B, add A. 

J^o. 775. Ravigote Butter. g cts. 

A : 1 tsp. each finely chopped tarragon, chevril, shallot, 
chives, parsley, and gherkins, 1 tsp. lemon-juice, \ tsp. 
anchovy paste, \ tsp. paprica, dash nutmeg ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter. 

Cream B, mix A thoroughly, blend with B, and color pale 
green. 

No. 77<5. Sardine Butter. 10 cts. 

A : 3 large sardines, skin and pound smooth, 1 tsp. lemon- 
juice, 1 tsp. parsley, chopped, dash cayenne ; 
B : 2 tbsps. fresh butter. 

Cream B, add A, mixed thoroughly. 

No. 777. Savory Butter. 7 cts. 

A: 2 tbsps. grated cheese, 1 tsp. each walnut or plain 
vinegar, anchovy paste, and French mustard, \ tsp. 
Worcestershire sauce ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter. 

Cream B, add A, thoroughly blended. 

250 



SANDWICHES 

No. 77<?. Tartare Butten 6 cts. 

A : 1 tsp. each chives, capers, gherkins, olives, and tar- 
ragon leaves, chopped fine, 1 tsp. each tarragon vinegar 
and lemon-juice, | tsp. each French mustard and paprica ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter. 

Cream B, mix with A, blend thoroughly. 

No. 779. Watercress Butter. g cts. 

A : 2 tbsps. watercress, chopped fine, J tsp. salt ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter. 

Cream B, mix with A. 




851 




" Soon at five o'clock 
Please you I'll meet you." 

— Comedy op Erboes. 

" Strong tea and scandal — Bless me how refreshing," 

— School for Scandal. 



The five-o'clock function may be four of your 
dear friends in for a chat and a cosy cup of tea, or 
the four hundred of your set to whom you wish to 
give social recognition, this taking the place of the 
ceremonial visit, the inviter conveying the idea to the 
invited that she wishes to continue the acquaintance. 
For the small reunion of friends the tea should be 
made and served by the hostess in the drawing-room 
or in any living-room but the dining-room, and in 
country houses out of doors, if possible. For this 
delightful occasion only the simplest and daintiest 
sandwiches and cakes are served, with hot tea, coffee, 
or chocolate, or in hot weather, iced coffee, tea, or 
punch. No service or assistance is necessary, except 
to bring in the required articles ; the hostess or a 

252 



FIVE O'CLOCK FUNCTIONS 

friend makes the tea or pours the beverage, and the 
guests help each other and themselves. For the 
more pretentious affair, the affair of the four hundred, 
the refreshments should be served in the dining-room. 
A very pretty table may be arranged with flowers 
and lights, a friend of the hostess seated at each end 
of the table to serve tea, coffee; bouillon, or ices. At 
very large entertainments the ices and cakes are 
served in another room, another pretty table and more 
friends being called into requisition. The refresh- 
ments for a large afternoon function, besides the 
drinks already mentioned, should consist of dainty 
plates of small sandwiches, olives, fancy cakes, and 
bonbons, all served from the table by waitresses, or 
young ladies, also friends of the hostess. Napkins 
are not always necessary, though they are a protection 
to the gloves and dresses ; the tiny sandwiches and 
the cakes are usually placed on the saucer or a plate 
under it, and are partaken of sparingly. The servants 
needed for this affair are, one at the door, two in the 
kitchen, one in the butler's pantry, and two or three 
in the dining-room, a maid for each dressing-room, 
and perhaps a man to open the carriage-door. Here 
is another opportunity for the artist in entertaining 
to show her best work. A fastidious arrangement of 
flowers all over the house to culminate on the dining- 
room table, all of one color, or a harmonious blending 
of colors, gives a fine opportunity for one's love of 
ornamentation to run riot, but here again is a note of 
warning. The simplest entertainment, when accom- 
panied by a charming hospitality, is better appreciated 

253 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

by one's dear four hundred friends, than any amount 
of ostentatious display. The following list includes 
almost everything required for the five-o'clock recep- 
tion or the ordinary afternoon tea, the recipes for 
which can be found in this book under their respective 
numbers : Bouillon No. 22, either hot or cold. Coffee 
No. 712, Chocolate No. 711, Eussian Tea No. 716, 
Iced Tea Punch No. 717, Sandwiches, Afternoon Tea 
Cakes, Some Accessories, Ices, Frappes, or Punches. 




S54 




" This night he makes a supper and a great one, 
To many lords and ladies." 

— Henbt VIII. 



The evening collation is served late, and custom has 
decreed that this repast should consist of the richest 
and most indigestible of foods ; perhaps that is the 
reason why fashion is turning a cold shoulder to the 
old time evening reception when people were invited 
for social intercourse. Whatever the reason, men 
and women of to-day have declined to accept Noah's 
invitation to come in pairs for no other amusement 
than that of each other's society. Now there must be 
something to do for our nervous, excitement-loving 
generation : the younger ones to dance, the older ones 
to play cards, and the musical, artistic, or pedantic 
are invited to enjoy their own specialties. Our busi- 
ness, however, is to tell the young housekeeper and 
prospective hostess what to have and how to serve it, 
so we will leave the matter of digestion for the doc- 
tor to settle the next day. The little suppers, where 

355 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

guests may be seated at small tables, are the most 
enjoyable. A menu which includes hot bouillon, hot 
entrees, light sandwiches, dainty biscuit, cold entrees, 
and salads with thick dressings, coffee witli real 
cream, for those who take it, wine or punch, a frozen 
cream or ice, and light fancy cakes, is quite as much 
of a " collation " as anyone should indulge in, and 
very much less of a menu would be in better taste 
perhaps. The small tables should be daintily linened 
and flowered, with a cover for each person consist- 
ing of the necessary number of forks for the differ- 
ent courses, and a napkin and a glass for ice-water. 
These are all that are required besides the service 
plate, unless game is included in the menu, then a 
small silver knife should be in readiness at the right of 
the cover, and a teaspoon for the coffee, which on this 
occasion may be served with the meats or salad if 
there is no wine or punch. Coffee should be served 
in teacups if served with the supper, or in after- 
dinner cups as a last course. Dainty receptacles for 
sugar and cream should be on the table, as this is 
the only occasion when cream is allowable except at 
breakfast. This is undoubtedly to aid in the indi- 
gestible result of the whole affair. Exquisite little 
dishes of glass and silver containing salted nuts, bon- 
bons, and olives may also be placed on the small 
tables, for guests to help themselves. As the ambi- 
tious young housekeeper may be inclined to under- 
take a large and elaborate entertainment, in spite of 
advice to the contrary, the following suggestions may 
not be out of place : 

256 



EVENING COLLATIONS 

The table for a large entertainment should be square 
or oblong, covered with a fine damask cloth over one 
of thick cotton flannel. Flowers and fruit may be 
used in abundance, only avoid over-crowding. Dishes 
may be decorated and placed on the table from the 
beginning of the entertainment. There should be 
only one of each kind, however, more being supplied 
from the butler's pantry when necessary. Piles of 
plates, with folded napkins between, and forks by 
the side of them, are neatly arranged on the side- 
table, and all hot drinks or dishes are served from 
the butler's pantry. At this function guests may help 
themselves, if they are not seated at small tables, so 
that it ia not always necessary to have a large corps 
of waiters for either large or small entertainments. 
Punches or frapp^s are usually served during the 
entire evening at a side-table from a large glass 
bowl with a silver ladle, into small glass cups made 
for the purpose. This service-table gives an oppor- 
tunity to display ingenuity and originality, as the 
artistic decorations and gastronomic creations show to 
great advantage. Good taste demands a little re- 
straint, however, that the hand of the caterer be not 
too apparent. Remember, the keynote to the success 
of the entertainment is individuality and refinement. 

The following list of dishes are suitable for the 

evening collation, recipes for which can be found in 

their respective departments : Oyster Cocktails No. 5, 

or Hot Bouillon No. 22, Deviled Crabs No. 112, or 

Crabs, Lobster, Shrimps, or Oysters Creamed, Crab, 

Lobster, Shrimp, or Oyster Croquettes or Chops, 

25r 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Terrapin, Lobster, or Shrimp a la Newburg 'No. 
822, Chicken, Sweetbread, or Mushroom Creamed, or 
Chicken, Sweetbread, Lamb or Veal Croquettes. Any 
of the Cold Entrees, and any of the Salads with May- 
onnaise or thick dressing, Hot or Cold Game, Frozen 
Creams or Ices, and fancy cakes, Prappes, or Punches, 
and Coffee No. 712. 




858 




" Not all on books their criticism waste, 
The genius of a dish some justly taste, 
And eat their way to fame." 

— Young. 

The chafing-dish, like the bicycle, has pushed itself 
into the best society, and it is quite evident it has 
come to stay. Many years before it became fashion- 
able it was here as the friend of the Bohemian and im- 
pecunious. It was only a cheap metal aflfair then, 
seeking its abiding-place in out-of-the-way corners ; 
but now it is resplendent in silver and gold, and en evi- 
dence on the smartest occasion. When it first makes 
its appearance in the menage it is quite as tricky 
as its friend the bicycle, and participates in infiicting 
many an unsavory mess upon unsuspecting victims. 
With a little patience and practice, however, it be- 
comes a dainty accessory to my lady's charms, and 
many a manly heart has grown warm and tender un- 
der its gentle auspices. Nevertheless, to be practical, 
there should be a reason for introducing it into good 
society. As every one of the following recipes can be 

359 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

made just as well over any fire, the only excuse for its 
appearance should be a complete knowledge on the 
part of the manipulator of the recipes to be used, all 
accessories in readiness, and a circle of intimate friends 
with appreciative appetites. There are a few things to 
remember : To have the lamp well filled and in good 
working order ; to place the standard of the chafing- 
dish on a tray a little larger than the dish to protect 
the table from fire and boiling water. 

Use the hot-water pan only when the preparation 
requires steaming or stewing, or to keep it from burn- 
ing while waiting for other ingredients or toast. 

To cook quickly, use only the blazer and have it 
hot before you begin. Have a handle on the hot- 
water pan as well as on the blazer. Use a chafing-dish 
spoon which is of silver or metal, with a wooden or 
ivory handle. Have an extra fork and teaspoon to 
try with, if you are not sure of your seasoning, and 
a small napkin. 

Before beginning to cook see that the table is well 
supplied with knives, forks, and napkins for each 
guest, and that all the ingredients needed are prepared 
and neatly arranged around your tray ; to wait for 
one ingredient sometimes means the ruination of the 
whole dish. Only one's intimates should be bidden to 
share the joys of a chafing-dish, and never more than 
ten at a time. The chafing-dish has not yet been made 
that will appease the appetite of more. 

The chafing-dish came as a fancy, and it is staying 
as a fact — but few fashionable fads have been of so 
much benefit to the world. The desire to become an 

260 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

adept with the chafing-dish has unconsciously led 
many a novice, step by step, into the mysteries of the 
art of cooking, consequently our most fashionable 
schools at present are the schools of cookery. 

SAVORY DISHES 

No. y8o. Almonds, Deviled. i8 cts. 

A : i lb. almonds, blanched, 1 tbsp. bntter ; 

B : 1 tbsp. each chatney sauce, chopped gherkins, and 

Worcestershire sauce, \ tsp. each paprica and salt. 

Saut6 A until brown, add B, mix, when hot, serve with 

cold meats. 

No. y8l. Bacon and Mushrooms. ^o cts. 

A : 6 thin, small slices bacon ; 

B : 6 very large mushrooms, peel, sprinkle with salt, 

paprica, and dash cayenne. 

Saut6 A until nearly done, add B, cook until tender. Serve 
with slice bacon on each mushroom. 

No. y82. Beef, Deviled. 12 cts. 

A : 6 thin slices rare, roast beef, spread with butter ; 
B : 1 tbsp. French mustard, ^ tsp. each salt and paprica, 
\ tsp. Chilly pepper or paprica, 1 tsp. vinegar, 1 tsp. 
horseradish. 
Mix B, spread over A, and cook in very hot dish 3 m. 

No. y8j. Beef Steak or Lamb Chops. ^5 cts. 

A : 1 large porterhouse or 2 small club steaks, or 6 lamb 
chops, well trimmed ; 

B : Maitre d'Hotel Sauce No. 348 or plain butter, or any 
of the Flavored Butters. 
Have dish very hot with ^ tsp. butter, cook A, quickly 
searing over on each side, cover and cook 8 m., turning often 

361 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and adding enough butter to prevent sticking. When done, 
spread with B on both sides, and serve at once. 

No. ^84. Beef Fillets or Mignons. 

See No. 283. 

No. "/S^. Beef, whh Tomato Sauce. j>o cts 

A : 3 cs. rare, roast beef, cut in small, thin slices ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, brown with J tsp. onion, minced fine, 
and 2 tbsps. flour, when smooth, add 1 c. strained toma- 
toes, i c. beef gravy or stock, 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 
\ tsp. Kitchen Bouquet, \ tsp. salt, 2 or 3 drops Tabasco 
sauce. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, when thoroughly hot, serve. 

No. y86. Calf's Liver Terrapin, with ^2 cts, 

Musfirooms. 

A : 2 cs. cooked liver, cut in small pieces, 1 c. stock ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, rubbed smooth with yolks 3 hard- 
boiled eggs, J tsp. each salt, paprica, Kitchen Bouquet, 
h tsp. mustard, 2 drops Tabasco sauce ; 
C : 1 c. sliced mushrooms, 2 sliced truffles, 3 tbsps. Ma- 
deira ; 
D : Egg-whites, cut in rings. 

Cook B 2 m., add A, cook 5 m., add C, cook until mush- 
rooms are tender, add E, and serve. 

No. y8y. Caviar on Toast. 24 cts. 

A : ^ c. caviar, mix with 1 tbsp. butter, juice i a lemon, 
and \ tsp. paprica or dash cayenne ; 
B : 6 slices buttered toast, or toast dipped in melted but- 
ter. 

Cook A in 1 tsp. butter 2 m., spread over B, and serve. 

No. y88. Cheese Fondue. Jo cts. 

A : 2 cs. grated cheese, 1 c. soft bread-crumbs, 1 c. cream 
or milk ; 

262 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

B : 2 tbsps. bntter, i tsp. salt, 1 tsp. dry mustard, J tsp. 
paprica or ^ tsp. cayenne ; 
C : 3 egg-yolks, beaten ; 
D ; Egg-whites, beaten stiff ; 

E : 6 slices buttered toast, or toast dipped in melted but- 
ter. 

Put B in hot dish, when hot add A, when boiling add C, 
mix thoroughly, stir in D, pour over E, and serve. 

No, y8g. Cheese Cfeam, with Truffles. ^o cts. 

A : 1 c. grated cheese, \ c. deviled ham, 3 trufiles, sliced 

or chopped, 1 c. cream ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. each salt and cayenne ; 

C : 6 slices bread, saut6d in butter or toasted only on 

under side. 

Cook A until melted, add B, mix and stir until boiling, 
pour over C and serve. Mushrooms may be used in place of 
truffles. 

No. ygo. Cheese Sandwiches, Sauteci. 8 cts. 

A : J c. fresh cheese, mashed smooth with cream, \ tsp. 

salt, ^ tsp. paprica ; 

B : 12 thin slices bread, cut oblong. 

Spread B with A, press two together, and saut6 on both 
sides in 1 tbsp. butter. Serve very hot. 

No. ygi. Cheese or Welsh Rarebit with Ale 22 cts. 
or Cream. 

A : 2 cs. fresh cheese, cut into dice ; 

B : J pt. Bass's ale or cream ; 

C : 2 tbsps. butter, \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. made mustard, ^ 

tsp. cayenne ; 

D : 6 slices hot toast or bread toasted only on under 

side. 

Put C in hot dish, add B, when boiling add A, stir until 
melted, and pour over D. Omit butter if cream is used. 

363 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. yg2. Cheese Ratebit, with Beaos. 15 cts. 

A : 1 c. cheese, cut into dice, 1 tbsp. Worcestershire 

saace ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. each salt and paprica, 1 c. cold, 

baked beans, pressed through a colander, then \ c. milk. 
Cook B, when boiling add A, when melted, serve on bread 
toasted only on under side. 

No. ygj. Cheese Rai-ebit, whh Tomatoes. 28 cts. 

A : 2 cs. fresh cheese, cut into dice ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter, i c. tomato-pulp or catsup, f c. cream, 
i tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : 2 beaten eggs, J tsp. soda ; 
D : 6 slices entire wheat bread toasted. 
Cook By when boiling, add A, stir until melted, add C, 
mix thoroughly, and pour over D. 



No. yg4. Chicken, Creamed. 

See Ko. 170. 

^o. 795. Chicken Ctirry. 60 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold, cooked chicken, cut into small pieces ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, \ tsp. onion, minced, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 
tsp. curry-powder, cook until brown and smooth, add 1 c. 
thick chicken-stock, \ c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne. 
Cook B until boiling and smooth, add A, simmer 5 m. 
Serve, add more curry if it is not very strong. 

No. yg6. Chicken Livers. jo cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold, boiled chicken livers, chop and marinate 
\ an hour in French Dressing No. 436 ; 
B : i c. mushrooms or 3 cold, boiled eggs, chopped ; 
C : Brown Sauce No. 230. 
Cook C, drain A, mix with B, add to C ; when, boiling, 
serve on toast. The hearts may be added, also cooked arti- 
chokes, potatoes, or sweetbreads. 

264 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 



No. "/gy. Chicken a la Newbofg. yo cts. 

A : 2J cs. cold, boiled chicken and livers, cut in long, 

narrow strips, then in i-inch pieces ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter, i tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 

0:1c. cream, beaten yolks 3 large eggs ; 

D : J 0. sherry and brandy mixed. 

Saut6 A in B, add ; when boiling, add D and serve. 

No, yg8. Chicken Tenapin. j^ cts. 

A : 2i cs. cooked chicken and livers, cut into small 
pieces ; 

B : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, cooked 
until smooth, 3 boiled egg-yolks, mashed smooth, \ tsp. 
each salt and paprica, 1 c. cream ; 

C : 3 tbsps. sherry, egg-whites, cut into dice, and Egg- 
Balls No. 73. 

Cook B, when boiling, add A, cook 1 m., add G, and serve. 

No. ygg. Qams on Biscuit. 20 cts. 

A : 1 doz. clams, chopped fine ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 c. clam-juice, juice \ lemon, 1 tsp. 

parsley, minced, 2 drops Tabasco sauce ; 

C : 6 shredded wheat biscuits or Boston crackers, split 

open, dipped in hot water, and spread with butter. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, cook 4 m., pour over C. 

No. 800. Qams, Fricasseed. 26 cts. 

A : 1 doz. clams, cut into small pieces ; 
B : 1 tbsp. hot butter, \\ tbsps. flour, cooked until 
smooth, 1 c. clam- juice, \ c. cream ; 
C : 2 egg-yolks, well beaten, 3 tbsps. Madeira, dash cay- 
enne. 

Cook B thoroughly, add A, cook 3 m., add ; when boil- 
ing, serve. 

365 



THE HOSTESS OF TODAY 

No. 8oi. Oabs a la Poalette ot Newburg. 6^ cts. 

A : Meat from 6 hard-shell, boiled crabs, cut into small 
pieces, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tsp. mustard, \ c. soft bread- 
crumbs, \\ cs. cream or milk ; 
C % eggs, beaten. 
Cook B, add A ; when boiling, add C, or follow Recipe No. 
797, using crab-meat instead of chicken. 

No. 8o2. Curried Toast. i6 cts. 

A : White Sauce No. 339, made with cream ; 
B : 1 tsp. curry-powder, 3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine ; 
C : 6 slices bread, sauted in butter or use buttered toast. 
Make A in chafing-dish, add B, when hot, pour over C. 

No. 8oj. Duck Of Turkey Salmi. 8o cts. 

A : 2^ cs. cold duck or turkey, cut into small pieces ; 
B : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 3 tbsps. flour, cook until smooth, 
add 1 c. gravy or stock, 13 stoned olives, 1 tbsp. tomato 
catsup, \ c. currant jelly, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 
C : ^ c. claret. 
Cook B 5 m., add A, when boiling, add C, and serve. 

No. 804. Dried Beef, FAzzled, 26 cts. 

A : ^ lb. dried beef, trimmed first, then shaved very fine, 
cut into small pieces, 1 tbsp. hot butter, then 1 tbsp. 
flour ; 

B : 1 c. cream, dash pepper, 2 eggs, well beaten. 
Cook A until slightly brown, add B, when boiling, serve. 

No. 80^. EifgfSt with Anchovy. 22 cts. 

A : 6 eggs, slightly beaten, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ c. 
cream, 3 tbsps. hot butter ; 
B : 6 slices toast, spread with anchovy paste ; or 
C : 1 tbsp. anchovy paste, and 1 tbsp. capers, minced. 
Cook A until creamy, serve on B, or add C, and serve on 
plain buttered toast. 

266 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 



No. 806. Eggs au BechameL 18 cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled egg-yolks, mashed smooth, with a few 
drops of oil or vinegar, 1 tbsp. capers, 1 tbsp. caviar or 
anchovy ; 

B : Whites, chopped ; 
C : B6chamel Sance No. 3 
KoU A into tiny balls, make C in chafing-dish, add A and 
B, when boiling again, serve. 

No, 8oy. EggSf Creamed au Parmesan. 2§ cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled egg-whites, chopped and mixed with 
White Sauce No. 229 ; 

B : Yolks, mashed smooth, with 1 tbsp. olive oil, 1 tsp. 
mustard, j tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica, or 2 drops Tabasco 
sance ; 

C : 6 slices buttered toast, sprinkled with 1 tbsp. Par- 
mesan cheese. 
Pour A over 0, cover with B, put through a potato ricer. 

No. 808. Eggs, Deviled. 22 cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut in thin slices ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tsp. dry mustard, 2 tbsps. tomato 
catsup, 2 tbsps. Worcestershire sauce, 1 tbsp. mushroom 
catsup, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, J tsp. salt ; 
C : 6 round slices buttered toast. 
Cook B, when boiling, add A, when hot, pour over 0. 

No. 8og. Eggs, Deviled with Anchovy. 30 cts. 

Follow Eecipe No. 808, spread toast with anchovy paste 
softened with lemon-juice. 

No. 810. Eggs, with Green Peppers. 20 cts. 

A : 6 eggs, beaten with \ c. cream ; 
B : 2 tbsps, butter, 4 tbsps. green pepper, minced fine, 
2 tbsps. grated cheese, 1 tbsp. tomato catsup ; 
C : 6 slices buttered toast. 
Cook B 1 m., add A, cook until thick, serve on 0. 

867 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 8 1 1. Egfgs a la Newbufg;. 24 cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut in small pieces ; 

B : 1 tbsp. hot butter, 1 tbsp. arrowroot, cook until 

smooth, 1 c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne ; 

C : 3 egg-yolks, well beaten, 3 tbsps. sherry. 

Cook B, add A, when boiling, add C, and serve. 

No. 812. Eggs, Poached in Cfeam. 20 cts. 

A : 6 eggs ; 

B : 1 c. cream, J tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, 1 tbsp. Wies- 
baden or Worcestershire sauce ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter, in small bits, dash salt and pepper ; 
D : 6 round slices toast, dipped in melted butter. 

Put B in dish, cover, when boiling drop in A, sprinkle 
with C, when poached serve on D. 

No. 8rj. Eggfs and Tomatoes. 20 cts. 

A : 6 eggs, slightly beaten, 6 minced olives ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, cooked with \ tsp. onion, minced, 

IJ CB. cooked tomatoes, 1 tsp. sugar, J tsp. salt, dash 

cayenne ; 

C : 6 slices brown-bread toast, buttered. 

Cook B, add A, cook until creamy, serve on C. 

No. 814. Eggs, with Tomato or Parsley Sauce. 12 cts. 

A : 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices ; 

B : Tomato Sauce No. 259, or White Sauce No. 229, 1 

tbsp. parsley. 

Make B in chafing-dish, add A, and serve. 

No. 81^. Egfgs, with Truffles and Pate de Foie ^o cts. 

Gras. 

A : 6 eggs, beaten slightly ; 

B : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 3 truffles, chopped fine, \ c. 
268 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

cream, J tsp. salt, 1 drop Tabasco sauce, 1 tbsp. tomato 

catsup ; 

C : 6 slices buttered toast, spread with pAte de foie gras. 

Cook B, add A, stir until creamy, pour over C. 

No. 8i6. Ham and Cheese on Toast. 20 cts. 

A : 1 c. boiled ham, chopped fine, \ c. grated cheese ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, cooked until smooth, 1 
c. cream or milk, dash cayenne ; 
C : 6 slices entire wheat bread, toasted and buttered. 

Cook B, add A, when cheese is melted serve on C. 

No. 8iy. Ham, with Currant Sauce. 22 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold boiled ham, cut in small thin slices ; 

B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ c. currant jelly, J c. sherry, dash 

cayenne. 

Cook B, when boiling add A, when hot serve. 

No. 818. Kidneys, Deviled. 20 cts. 

A : 4 lamb kidneys, soak 1 hour in ice-water, scald, and 

cut into thin slices ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 1 tsp. 

mustard, \ tSp. salt, \ tsp. curry or paprica ; 

C : 2 tbsps. claret. 

Put B in hot dish, when hot add A, cook 5 m., add C, and 
serve. 

No. 8ig. Lima Beans and Mushrooms. jj cts. 

A : 2 cs. cooked beans, 1 c. fresh mushrooms, or dried 

mushrooms soaked over night ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, \ c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, cook 10 m., and serve. Dried 
mushrooms are called c6pes and may be bought at the Italian 
stores for 25 cts. per pound. 

369 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

No. 820. Lobster Cream. 55cts. 

A : 2J cs. lobster-meat, cut into small pieces ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter, lobster coral and fat, 1 tsp. dry mus- 
tard, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 1 c. cream, 5 
tbsps. cracker-crumbs, soaked in 1 c. milk ; 
C : 1 beaten egg. 

Cook B until smooth, add A, when boiling, add C, and 

serve. 

No. 821. Lobster, Deviled. 60 cts. 

A : 2J cs. lobster-meat, cut into small pieces, marinate 
\ hour in French Dressing No. 436 ; 
B : 3 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. tomato catsup, 1 tbsp. lemon- 
juice, J tsp. salt, \ tsp. paprica, 1 tsp. mustard. 

Cook B, add A, cook until boiling, serve. 

No. 822. Lobster^ a la Newburg. 80 cts- 

Follow Eecipe No. 797, using %\ cs. lobster instead of 
chicken, add a grating of nutmeg. 

No. 82 J. Lobster Terrapin. ^2 cts. 

A : 3 cs. lobster-meat, cut in ^-inch pieces ; 

B : Olive Sauce No. 251 and Egg-Balls No. 73, 2 tbsps, 

sherry, grating nutmeg. 

Make B, add A, when boiling, serve. 

No. 824. Macaroni or Spaghetti, Italian. i^ cts. 

A : \ package spaghetti, boil, drain, and sprinkle with 2 
tbsps. Parmesan or dry, grated cheese, mix lightly with 
fork, add 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne, \ tsp. 
Kitchen Bouquet ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, brown with \ tsp. onion, minced, 
add 1 c. strained tomato pulp and 6 dried mushrooms, 
soaked over night. 

Cook B 5 m., add A, when boiling, serve. 

270 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 



No. 82 £. Macaroni or Spaghetti Rarebit. 28 cts. 

A : 2 cs. cold-boiled macaroni, 1 c. grated cheese, % tbsps. 
butter, \ tsp. each salt, mustard, and paprica ; 
B : 3 eggs, beaten, \ c. cream or milk ; 
C : 6 slices toast. 

Cook A, add B, when boiling, serve on C. 

No. 826. Mushrooms, Creamed. go cts. 

A : 1 lb. fresh mushrooms, cut into small pieces, 3 tbsps. 

hot butter, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg ; 

B : 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, cook until smooth, add 

1 c. cream, 1 tbsp. sherry ; 

C : 6 slices buttered toast or 3 shredded wheat biscuits, 

split open, inside crumbs removed, dipped in hot milk. 

Cook A until tender, add B, when boiling, pour over C, 
and serve. 

No. 82^. Mushrooms, Sauted. 82 cts. 

A : 1 lb. large, fresh mushrooms ; 
B : 4 tbsps. butter, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nut- 
meg, 2 tbsps. cream, mushroom stems, chopped fine. 

Mix B, fill A, saute in butter without turning. 

No. 828. Mushrooms, Stewed. 80 cts. 

A : 1 lb. fresh mushrooms or 1 can French mushrooms ; 
B : 2 tbsps. butter, J tsp. salt, 1 tsp. mushroom catsup, 
juice \ lemon, 1 tsp. parsley, minced, dash cayenne, ^ c. 
hot stock. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, cook until tender, serve. 

No. 82g. Mutton or Lamb Terrapin. ^o cts. 

A : %\ cs. cooked mutton or lamb cut into small pieces ; 
B : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, 
mashed yolks 3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tsp. dry mustard, 
cook until smooth, add 1 tbsp. currant jelly, 1 tbsp. 
371 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Worcestershire sauce, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne, 1 c. stock 

or gravy, | c. cream ; 

C : Egg-whites, chopped fine, 3 tbsps, sherry ; 

D : 6 slices buttered brown-bread toast. 

Cook B, when boiling, add A, when hot, add G and serve 
onD. 

No. 830. Oysters, Creamed. 62 cts. 

A : 1 qt. oysters, remove hard muscles, scald and drain ; 
B : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 1 c. cream, \ tsp. salt, dash cay- 
enne, celery salt and nutmeg, \ tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 
1 tsp. parsley, minced ; 
G : 6 slices buttered toast, toasted only on under side. 

Gook B until boiling, add A, cook 3 m., serve on C. 

No. 831. Oysters, with Celery and Parsley. ^6 cts. 

A : 1 qt. oysters ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter, 1 tbsp. parsley and 1 of celery, \ tsp. 
salt, \ tsp. paprica, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, 1 tsp. Worces- 
tershire sauce or 1 tsp. anchovy paste. 

Gook B, add A, cook until edges curl. 

No. 832. Oysters \ la Poulette. 66 cts. 

A : 1 qt. oysters, scald, drain, remove hard muscle, and 

chop fine ; 

B : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, cook 

until smooth, add 1 c. cream, \ c. oyster-liquor, \ tsp. 

salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 1 tsp. parsley, minced ; 

C : 2 egg-yolks, well beaten ; 

D : 6 slices buttered toast 

Cook B until boiling, add A, when hot add 0, when boil- 
ing, serve on D. 

No. 833. Oyster Rarebit 38 cts. 

A : 1 pt. oysters, scald, drain, remove hard muscles and 

cut in small pieces, and 3 well-beaten eggs ; 

B : 3 tbsps. hot butter, \ tsp. each sedt and paprica, \ 

272 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

tsp. mustard, 1 c. strained oyster-liqnor, 1 c. grated 

cheese, J c. soft bread-crumbs ; 

C : 6 slices buttered toast or crackers. 

Cook B until smooth, add A, when boiling, serve on C. 

No. 834. Oysters, Sauted. 60 cts, 

A : 1 qt. large oysters ; 

B : 3 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. flour, \ tsp. salt, dash cay- 
enne, enough milk or oyster-liquor to make soft batter ; 
C : 2 tbsps. butter. 

Dip A, one by one, in B, saut6 in C, 

No. 835. Oyster Crabs a la Newborgf. $1.10. 

A : 1 pt. oyster crabs, 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. 
paprica ; 

B : f c. cream, 2 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. sherry or Madeira ; 
C : 6 hot patty cases or Bread Croustades No. 222. 

Saute A carefully, a few at a time, add B, when boiling, 
serve in C. The sherry may be omitted and mushrooms 
may be added. 

No. 8j6. Potatoes Lyonnaise. 10 cts. 

A : 3 cs. cold boiled potatoes, sliced thin ; 

B : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tsp. each onion and parsley, 

minced. 

Brown B, add A, sautg until light brown. 

No. 83"/. Partridges, Sauted. $1-65. 

A : 2 cooked partridges, remove meat from bones, cut 
in narrow strips, roll in bacon, fasten with wooden tooth- 
picks ; 

B : ^ c. stock from bones, or water, \ tsp. paprica, blade 

of mace, 1 tbsp. white wine. 

Cook A until crisp, put on hot plate, add B to chafing-dish, 

when boiling, pour over partridges. If birds are not cooked, 

cook them in covered chafing-dish 15 m., then remove cover 

and crisp. 

S73 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 8j8. Quails, Sauted. $i.oo. 

A : 3 birds, split in two, lengthwise, 2 tbsps. batter ; 
B : J c. each stock and port wine or claret, 1 tbsp. each 
currant jelly and mushroom catsup, 3 drops onion-juice, 
\ tsp. each salt and paprica, dash celery salt. 

Saute A until done (about 10 m.), keep warm on hot dish, 
add B to chafing-dish, cook until boiling, pour over A, and 

serve. 

No. 8jg. Salt Codfish, Creamed. /j cts. 

A : 1 c. codfish, shred, wash, and drain ; 

B : 1 tbsp. hot butter, 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, cook 

until smooth, add 1 c. cream, dash pepper ; 

C : 3 eggs, well beaten. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, cook 5 m., add 0, and serve 
on toast or stewed potatoes. 

No. 8/f.o. Sardine Rarebit. jo cts. 

A : 6 sardines, broil, skin, bone, and mash ; 
B : 1 tbsp. butter, \ tsp. salt, J tsp. paprica, 1 tsp. mus- 
tard, or I tsp. Tabasco sauce, 1 c. cream, 1 c. cheese ; 
C : 2 eggs, beaten ; 
D : 6 slices toast or crackers. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, then C, when boiling again, 
serve on D. 

No. 841. Sauerkraut and Frankfurters. 75 cts. 

A : 2 cs. sauerkraut, \ c. hot water ; 
B : 6 frankfurters. 

Cook A until boiling, lay B on top, cover, and cook \ hour. 

No. 84.2. Scallops, Curried or Creamed. 60 cts. 

A : 1 qt. scallops, wash and drain ; 
B ; 2 tbsps. butter, browned, with \ tsp. onion, minced, 
\\ tbsps. arrowroot or flour, 1 tsp. curry-powder, \ tsp. 
274 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

salt, dash cayenne, 1^ cs. stock or cream. If cream is 
used, omit onion and curry and do not brown butter. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, boil 5 m., serve on round 
slices of bread, toasted only on under side and dipped in 
melted butter. 

No. 843. Scallops, Deviled. 55 cts. 

A : 1 qt. scallops, parboil until tender, about 2 m., and 
drain ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter^ 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, juice \ 
lemon, 1 tsp. mustard, \ tsp. each salt and paprica, 1 
tbsp. tomato catsup. 

Cook B until hot, add A, when boiling serve. 

No. 844. Shad Roe, with Sauce. jj cts. 

A : 1 shad roe, soak in water \ hour, scald, drain, and 

cut in slices, 3 tbsps. hot butter ; 

B : 1 tbsp. flour ; 

C : 1 c. stock or hot water and 1 tsp. meat extract, 1 

tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, \ tsp. each salt, paprica, and 

curry. 

Saute A until thoroughly cooked, place roe on hot dish, 
add B to butter in pan, cook until brown, add C, when boil- 
ing pour over A. 

No. 84^. Shrimps, Deviled. 60 cts. 

A : 1 qt. shrimps ; 

B : 3 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tbsp. each Worcestershire 
sauce and parsley, minced, \ tsp. each mustard, paprica, 
and salt, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice or vinegar. 

Cook B, add A, cook 3 m., serve. 

No. 846. Shrimps, with Tomato Sauce. 6^ cts. 

A : 1 qt. shrimps ; 

B : 1 c. stock, 1 c. tomato pulp, i bay leaf, 3 sprigs 
parsley, \ an onion, blade of mace, \ tsp. salt, dash 
cayenne ; 

275 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

C : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 2 tbsps. arrowroot ox flour ; 
D : 6 round slices toast. 

Cook B 15 m., strain into warm bowl, put C in chafing- 
dish, when smooth add B, then A, when boiling serve on D. 

No. 8^y. Shrimp Terrapin. 6^ cts. 

Follow Becipe No. 798, using 1 qt. shrimps instead of 
chicken. 

JVo. 8^8. Smelts and Mushrooms. 50 cts. 

A : 1 lb. smelts, boned, J c. white wine or lemon-jniee 
and water, 4 tbsps. mushroom liquor, J tsp. each salt and 
paprica ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, 2 tbsps. flour, brown slightly, add 
1 c. stock, when boiling, 1 c. canned mushrooms cut into 
halves, 2 truffles, minced. 

Cook A 8 m., place on hot dish, put B in chafing-dish, boil 
5 m., pour over smelts, and serve. 

No. 84g. Soft-shell Crabs, Sauted. 85 cts. 

A : See Eecipe No. 140, with sauce ; 

B : 1 c. tomato pulp, \ c. chicken stock, \ tsp. salt, dash 

cayenne and celery salt. 

Cook A, put on hot dish, add B to chafing-dish, when 
boiling pour around crabs. 

No. 8^0. Sweetbreads and Asparagus Tips. go cts. 

A : 1 lb. sweetbreads, blanched, and cut in small pieces, 

1 c. cold boiled asparagus tips, marinate i an hour in 

French Dressing No. 436 ; 

B : 2 tbsps. hot butter, 1 tbsp. arrowroot or flour, cooked 

smooth, J tsp. salt, dash celery salt and cayenne, mashed 

yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 c. cream ; 

C : Egg-whites, cut in rings, 1 egg, beaten. 

Cook B, add A and 1 tbsp. sherry if you like, when boil- 
ing serve. 

276 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

No. 8^1. Sweetbreads^ dreamed. 

See No. 190. 

No. 8^2. Sweetbreads, Fricasseed or Sauted. 8o ets. 

A : 1 lb. blanched sweetbreads, cut into thin slices ; 

B : 3 tbsps. batter, rolled into small balls and dredged 

with flour ; 

C : J c. stock, \ tap. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, juice 

\ lemon. 

Put B in chafing-dish, add C, a little at a time, until 
creamy and smooth, add A, when boiling serve. To saute 
sweetbreads see No. 196. 

No. 8§J. Terrapin, Stewed. 

See No. 141. 

No. 854. Tomato Curry. 75 cts. 

A : 3 large, firm, fresh tomatoes, peeled and cut in 
slices, 1 tbsp. hot butter ; 

B : 1 tbsp. each flour and curry, \ tsp. onion-juice, \ tsp. 
salt, dash cayenne, 1 c. cream. 

Cook A in chafing-dish, add B, when boiling serve on toast. 
Tomatoes may be canned for this purpose, see No. 479. 

No. 855. Veal Curry. 38 cts. 

A : 2i CB. raw veal, cut into very small pieces ; 
B : 2 tbsps. hot butter, \ tsp. minced onion, 2 tbsps. 
flour, cook until smooth and brown, add 1 tsp. curry- 
powder, \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. grated cocoanut, dash cayenne, 
\\ C8. cream, stock, or milk. 

Cook B until boiling, add A, cover, and cook until veal is 

tender. Serve. 

277 



THE HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



No. 856. Veal, with Mushtooms. J5 cts. 

A : 3 cs. cooked veal and 1 c. mushrooms, cut into slices ; 
B : 1 c. veal stock, or gravy, \ c. cream or milk or 
tomato pulp, \ tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg ; 
C : % beaten eggs. 
Cook B, add A, cook until mushrooms are tender, add C, 
when boiling serve. 

No. 8^y. Veal Terrapin. jj cts. 

Follow Recipe N"o. 798, using veal instead of chicken. 

No. 8 §8. Venison Steak, Sauted. /j cts. 

A : 3 lbs. venison steak, cook as yon would Beef Steak 
No. 783 ; 

B : 2 tbsps. butter, J tsp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg 
or mace, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, 3 tbsps. quince or currant 
jelly, 1 c. Madeira or claret. 

Cook A, place on hot dish, put B in chafing-dish, when 
boiling, pour over A, and serve. 

No. 8^g. Venison, Stewed. "^2 cts. 

A : 6 chops of venison, see Beef Steak No. 783 ; 

B : 3 tbsps. butter, \ currant jelly, \ tsp. each salt and 

papricaj 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, \ c. sherry. 

Cook A, add B, simmer 10 m. Serve. 

SWEET DISHES 

No. 860. Apples, Sauted. 12 cts. 

A : 6 tart apples, core, and cut in slices | an inch thick, 

cover with juice 1 lemon, 1 tbsp. brandy, 1 tbsp. sugar, 

for 1 hour j 

B : 1 tbsp. butter ; 

C : 2 tbsps. powdered sugar, mixed with 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

Drain A, saut6 in B, place on hot dish, sprinkle with C, 
and serve. 

878 



CHAFING DISH CREATIONS 

No. 86 1. Bananas, Saated. 2^ cts. 

A : 6 bananas, skin and slice lengthwise, cover with ice- 
water 5 m., drain, and sant6 in 1 tbsp. butter nntil 
brown ; 

B : Juice 3 lemons, \ c. sherry, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, 
\ tsp. vanilla, juice 1 orange, rind 1 lemon. 

Place A on hot dish, cover with B, and serve. 

No. 862. Fig Dainty. jo cts. 

A : ^-Ib. bag figs, stuff with salted peanuts or almonds, 

chopped, about 1 c. ; 

B : 3 tbsps. sugar, 1 tbsp. lemon-juice, ^ c. sherry. 

Cook B, add A, stir until tender, serve with sponge cake. 

No. 863. German Toast. 75 cts. 

A : 6 slices buttered bread without crust ; 

B : 2 cs. milk, mixed with 3 beaten eggs, \ tsp. salt ; 

C : 1 tbsp. butter ; 

D : Foam Sauce No. 602. 

Soak A in B 15 m., drain, and saut6 in 0, serve on hot 
dishes with D poured over. 




279 



INDEX 



DnmDSS AND LUNCHEONS. 



The Fobmal Dinneb 

Thb Covbr 

The Informal Dinner . . . 
The Formal Luncheon .. 
The Informal Luncheon. 



SOME BEGINNINGS. 

Otbtebs and Clams 

No. 1. OvBters on the Half Shell 

" 2. Little Keck Clams 

" 3. Raw Oysters 

" 4. " Clams 

" & Oyster Cocktails 

" 6. Chun Cocktails 

Canapes. Method 

No. 7. Anchovy Canapes 

8. Caviar " 

9. Cheese " 

" 10. Lobster " 

11. Crab " 

" 12. Oyster " 

13. Sardine " 

14. Sweetbread " 

15. Tomato " 



Fruits 


No 


16. 




17. 




18. 




19. 




20. 




21. 



Method 

Grape-fruit Shells 

" Baskets with Grapes . 

Orange Shells 

Musk Melons 

Water Melons 

Strawberries a la Fran^aise 



SOUPS 

Clear Soup. Method 

No. 23. Bouillon, Beef 

" " Clam or Oyster 

" " Chicken 

23. Consomm^ 

24. " with Brussels Sprouts . 

25. " Claret 

26. " Cucumber 

286 



PBIOE 


PASB 




1 




1 




3 




11 




13 




14 




17 




18 


#0.60 


18 


.40 


18 


.50 


18 


.34 


18 


.80 


19 


.30 


19 




19 


.40 


20 


.30 


30 


.15 


20 


.35 


30 


.80 


30 


.20 


21 


.80 


31 


.35 


31 


.25 


31 




32 


.60 


23 


.50 


32 


.75 


23 


.50 


33 


.40 


23 


.60 


23 




24 




35 


.35 


36 


.30 


36 


.25 


26 


.68 


37 


.35 


27 


.70 


37 


.38 


28 



INDEX 



Ho. 27. ConBomme Curry 

'' 28. " Neapolitan 

" 29. " withPatds 

" 30. " Printanier 

■• 31. " Royal 

"82. " Royal au Parmesan . . 

" 83. " with Timbales 

Cream Soups. Method 

No. 34. Cream of Asparagus 

" 35. " Artichokes 

" 36. " Carrots 

" 87. " Cauliflower 

" 38. " Celery 

" 39. " Chestnuts 

" 40. " Chicken 

" 41. " Corn 

" 43. " Green Peas 

"43. " Lettuce or Sorrel 

" 44. " Mushrooms 

" 45. " Onions 

" 46. " Potato 

" 47. " Spinach 

" 48. " Tomato 

" 49. " Water-cress 

PcB^BS. Method 

No. 50. Black Bean Puree 

" .51. Hare " 

" 53. Peanut " 

" 53. Split Pea " 

" 54. Tomato " 

Bisques. Method 

No. 5.5. Clam Bisque 

" 56. Crab " 

" 57. Fish " 

" 58. Lobster " 

" 59. Oyster " 

Chowdeks and Thick Soup.s. Method. 

No. 60. Chicken Gumbo 

" 61. Clam Chowder 

" 62. Corn " 

" 63. Fish " 

" 64. Green Turtle Soup 

" 65. Mock Turtle " 

" 66. Mulligatawny " 

" 67. Oxtail Soup 

" 68. Terrapin Soup 

Gabnishinqs for Soups 

No. 69. Cheese Balls 

" 70. " Fritter Beans 

" 71. Croutons Royals 

" 72. Rice or Egg Balls 

286 



FKIOE 


PASS 


$0.50 


28 


.83 


28 


.35 


28 


.85 


28 


.80 


29 


.33 


29 


.85 


29 




29 


.85 


30 


.45 


30 


.80 


30 


.35 


31 


.30 


31 


.35 


31 


.44 


31 


.30 


31 


.35 


32 


.82 


33 


.60 


33 


.15 


32 


.22 


33 


.26 


33 


.33 


83 


.35 


33 




83 


.18 


34 


.35 


34 


.35 


34 


.10 


35 


.30 


35 




35 


.23 


35 


.50 


36 


.30 


36 


.85 


36 


.43 


36 




37 


.,50 


37 


.23 


37 


.30 


38 


.35 


38 


.95 


38 


1.15 


39 


.35 


39 


.30 


39 


2.60 


40 


.15 


40 


.8 


4U 


.8 


4U 


.5 


41 



INDEX 



FISH. 

Fish, Baked. Method , 

" Boiled. " 

" BrOII/ED. " 

" Fried OR Sauted. Method 

No. 73. Brook Trout, Baked 

" 74. " " Broiled 

" 75. " " SautM 

" 76. Codfish Fillets, Fried 

"77. Pish Fillets, Baked 

" 78. " " Boiled 

" 79. " " Deviled 

" 80. " " Fried or Sauted 

" 81. Flounder or Sole Fillets, Stuffed 

" 83. " " " " Rolled 

" 83. Fish au Parmesan, Baked 

" 84. Frogs' Legs Ji la Poulette 

•• 85. Halibut Fillets, Cold 

" 86. " au Gratin, Baked 

" 87. " au Jardiniere, Baked 

" 88. Pompano, Broiled 

" 89. " Sauted 

" 90. Salmon Cutlets, Baked 

" 91. " Supreme, Boiled 

" 92. Shad, Planked 

" 93. " Roe, Baked 

" 94. " " Balls 

" 95. " " Broiled 

" 96. " " Sauted 

** 97. Sardines au Parmesan 

" 98. Smelts, Fried 

" 99. Sole au Vin Blanc, Baked 

" 100. White-bait, Fried , 

From Cold Cooked Fish 

No. 101. Fish Creamed, for Coquille or Ramekin Dishes, Pates 

or Vol au Vents 

" 103. Fish Croquettes of HaUbut or Codfish 

" 103. " " "Salmon 

" 104. " Timbales , 

" 105. " " Supreme , 

" 106. " Force-meat 

Shell Fish 

No. 107. Clams, Baked 

" 108. " Creamed, for CoquUleB, Ramekin Dishes, or 
Bouchees, Pates, or Vol au Vents 

" 109. Clams, Deviled and Broiled , 

" 110. ClamFritters 

" 111. Clams k la Poulette 

" 113. Crabs, Deviled or Farcied 

" 113. Lobsters, Broiled Alive , 

" 114. Lobster, Creamed, for Coquille, Ramekin Dishes, or 
Bouchees, Pates, or Vol au Vents , 

" 115. Lobster Chops 

" 116. " Curry 

" 117. " Cutlets Supreme 

287 



PRICE PAOl! 



$1.25 
1.00 
1.10 
.40 
.40 
.40 
.40 
.45 
.45 
.55 
.35 
.80 
.45 
.45 
.50 
.95 
.95 
.90 
.90 
.60 
.45 
.30 
.25 
.35 
.15 
.45 
.43 
.55 



.43 
.30 
.40 
.25 
.45 
.15 



.20 
.20 
.29 
.40 
.95 



.70 
.70 
.60 
.94 



INDEX 



No 


118. 




119. 




120. 




121. 




122. 




123. 




124. 




125. 




126. 




127. 




128. 




129. 




130. 




131. 




133. 




133. 




134. 




135. 




136. 




137. 




138. 




139. 


*» 


140. 


4i 


141. 



Lobster k la Kewbnrg 

" Timbales 

" " SuprSme 

" and Mushroom Ragout 

" Savory in Fontage Croustades 

Oysters, Broiled 

" Creamed, for Pates, Coquille, or BameMn 

Dislies 

" in Cioustades 

" Curried 

Oyster Chops 

Oysters, Deviled 

'■ Fried or Sauted 

" " Supreme 

Oyster Pie 

" BisBoles 

" Rolls 

Oysters, Scalloped SuprSme , 

Oyster Souffle '. , 

" Crabs in Croustades or Puff Paste Cases 

Scallops, Fried. 

Shrimps Creamed, for Pates, Coquilles, or Ramekin 

Dishes , 

Shrimps and Tomatoes, Sauted 

Soft-shell Crabs 

Terrapin, Stewed 



SA UCES FOR PISH . 



Hot Sauces 

No. 142. Anchovy Sauce 

" 143. Cheese " 

" 144. Cucumber " , 

" 145. Court Bouillon— For Boiling Pish.. 

• ' 146. Dressing for Baked Fish 

" 147. EggSauce 

** 148. Hollandaise Sauce 

" 149. Lobster Sauce 

" 150. Oyster " 

" 151. " Dressing 

" 152. Fiqnante Sauce 

" 153. ShadKoe " 

•• 154. Shrimp " 

Cold Sauces 

No. 155. Cucumber Sauce 

Cream *^ 

Pepper " 

Sardine " 

Tartare " 

Tomato Tartare 

Vinegar Sauce 



156. 
157. 
158. 
159. 
160. 
161. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 

Hot Entrees 

Cbbamed Meat or Poultry for BoucrfBS, Coquilles, or 
Ramekin Dishes, Pates, or Vol au Vents, or 
Swedish Fontage Croustades. Method 

288 



PBIOX FAOX 


«0.80 


56 


.35 


56 


.55 


56 


.50 


56 


.35 


56 


.30 


57 


.30 


57 


.30 


57 


.30 


57 


.35 


58 


.25 


68 


.60 


.58 


.50 


f» 


.60 


59 


.38 


59 


.40 


59 


.50 


59 


.38 


60 


1.10 


60 


.56 


60 


.35 


60 


.35 


61 


.40 


61 


a. 50 


61 




62 
63 


.08 


62 


.14 


62 


.20 


63 


.15 


63 


.08 


63 


.10 


ftS 


.14 


63 


.35 


68 


.20 


63 


.15 


64 


.10 


64 


.25 


64 


.18 


64 


.20 


64 
64 


.30 


65 


.09 


65 


.30 


65 


.30 


65 


.30 


65 


.10 


66 



INDEX 



CsoqniTTBS. Method 

boulkttbs 

Quenelles 

Fillets. Method 

BagoOts. " 

Rissoles. " 

Soin'FLis. " 

Timbalbs OB MoussELiNES. Method 

To Blanche Sweetbreads. " 

No. 163. Beefsteak RagoQt 

163. Beef Tongue fillets, Baked. 

Bonch^es Savory. 

CaU's-f eet Teirapin 

Calf s-head h la Vinaigrette 

" Bagofit with Mushrooms . 

Calfs-heart PiUets, Sautfed 

Calf s-liver Bagout 

Chicken, Creamed 

" Croquettes 

Supreme. 



WW. 
165. 
166. 
167. 
16S. 



170. 
171. 
178. 
173. 
174. 
175. 



" Apples en Surprise. 

FUlets, Deviled . 



176. 
177. 
178. 
179. 
180. 
181. 
182. 
183. 
184. 
185. 
186. 
187. 
188. 
189. 
190. 
191. 
193. 
193. 
194. 
195. 
196. 
197. 
198. 

199. 
200. 
301. 
202. 
203. 
204. 
205. 



Livers and P&t4 de Foie Gras in Bouch6es or 

Groustades.. 

" Quenelles 

" Bagodt 

" Soufflfi 

" Timbalea or Mousselines 

" Timbales en Surprise 

" and Ham Timbales 

" Liver " 

" Vol au Vents 

Corned Beef, Creamed 

" Souffle 

Kidney Fillets, Broiled or Saut6d 

Lamb Croquettes 

" Souffle 

Marrow Bones 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 

and Chicken, Creamed 

Croquettes or Chops 

Fillets, Baked 

" Broiled 

" Glazed. 

" Pried or Sauted 

"■ au Parmesan, Fried 

and Mushrooms in Fontage Croustades or 

Vol au Vents 

Bagout 

Timbales, Fried 

and Truffles, in Croustades 

Tongue Fillets, Broiled or Pried 

" Salmi Bagoflt 

Tripe Bagout, with Celery 

Veu Croquettes 

389 



PBICS F^QE 
68 



90.50 
.26 
.40 
.70 
.67 
.75 
.23 
.23 
.60 
.60 
.75 
.50 



.66 

.54 

.55 

.55 

.57 

.33 

.24 

.20 

.45 

.20 

.30 

.15 

.40 

.35 

.25 

.96 

.45 

.75 

1.06 

1.00 

1.05 

1.18 

1.10 

.70 
.65 
.65 
.60 



.30 
.30 

.36 



INDEX 



No. 206. Veal Ragofit au Parmesan 

" 207. " or Lamb Timbales 

Cold Entbees for Evening Collations, Luncheons, and 

Warm Weather Dinners 

No. 208. Aspic JeUy 

" 209. BeefLoaf 

" 210. Chicken or Game Cream in Aspic 

" 211. " Galantine 

" 212. " Mousse 

" 213. HamParci 

" 214. " Mousse 

" 215. Lobster Mousse 

" 216. Olive Timbales 

" 217. Pate de Foie Gras en Surprise 

" 218. Veal Jelly Mould 

" 219. " Loaf 

"220. " andHamPie 

Garnishings fob Entb:ebs 

No. 221. Bread Roulettes or Balls 

"223. " Croustades 

" 223. Cream Jelly to Mask Poultry, Meats, or Game 

" 224. Pontage Croustades, or Swedish Timbale Cases 

" 225. Force-meat Balls 

" 326. Glaze to Cover Meats, Entre'es, or Vegetables 

" 227. Macaroni or Spaghetti Timbale Cases 

" 228. Spanish Force-meat 

SAUCES FOR MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

Hot Sattces 

No. 329. White Sauce 

" 230. Brown " 

" 231. Allemande Sauce, for Vegetables 

" 232. Be'arnaise " " Beefsteak 

" 233. Bechamel " " Meats and Poultry 

" 234. Butter " " Boiled Artichokes or Asparagus . 

" 235. Black Butter Sauce, for Eggs Sauted 

" 236. Bread Sauce, for Game 

" 337. Caper " " Boiled Mutton 

" 238. Champagne Sauce, for Ham 

" 239. Chicken " " Sweetbreads 

" 240. Chestnut " " Turkey or Chicken 

" 341. Chive " 

' ' 348. Currant Jelly Sauce, for Game 

" 24.3. Curry Sauce, for Chicken or Eggs 

" 344. Espagnole Sauce 

" 215. Hollandaise Sauce for Pish, Meats, and Vegetables 

" 246. Horseradish " " Beef 

" 247. Madeira Sauce 

" 248. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 

" 249. Mustard Sauce, for Beef 

" 250. Mushroom Sauce 

" 251. Olive Sauce, for Game or Poultry 

" 252. Onion or Soubise Sauce 

" 253. Orange Hollandaise Sauce 

" 354. " Sauce, for Game 

" 355. Pepper " 

290 



FBICE FAOZ 

#0.56 
.20 



.30 
.45 
.60 
.65 
.35 
1.50 
.40 
.70 
.20 
.65 
.30 
.40 
.75 

.10 
.10 
.20 
.06 
.15 
.08 
.10 
.13 



.08 
.08 
.16 
.15 
.10 
.18 
.08 
.08 
.10 
.55 
.85 
.15 
.09 
.15 
.10 
.15 
.16 
.08 
.15 
.08 
.10 
.35 
.23 
.13 
.18 
.30 
.80 



INDEX 



No. 256. Port Wine Sauce, for Game 

" 257. Sorrel Sauce, for Veal 

" 258. Supreme Sauce 

" 359. Tomato " 

"260. '• CreamSauoe 

" 261. Truffled Mushroom Sauce 

" 262. Veloute Sauce 

" 263. " " withClaret 

" 864 Bread Dressing for Game 

" 265. Chestnut " or Stuffing, for Turkey or Chicken . . 

" 266. Potato " for Roast Duck or Goose 

Cold Sauces 

No. 267. Horseradish Sauce 

" 368. " PlourSauce 

" 269. Vinaigrette Sauce 

Fbuit Relishes '. 

No. 270. Apple Sauce 

" 871. " Fritters, to Serve with Meats 

" 273. " Sauce Croquettes 

" 273. Cider Apple-sauce 

" 274. Cranberry Sauce 

" 275. " JellyMoulds 

" 276. Currant Jelly Forms 

" 277. " Marmalade 

" 278. Egg-tomato Sweets 

" 279. Orange Marmalade 

" 280. Rice Croquettes en Surprise 

PlhCE BE RtSISTANGK 

WHAT TO SERVE WITH MEATS AND POULTRY 

Meats 

No. 281. Beef ii la Mode 

" 282. " PUlet, Baked 

" 283. " Fillets or Mignons, Broiled, SautPd, or Deviled 

" 284. " Steaks, Broiled with Mushrooms or Oysters 

" 285. " Steak Parci, Baked 

" 286. Ham SuprSme, Boiled or Baked 

" 887. Lamb Cnops, Breaded and Fried 

" 888. " with Champagne Sauce 

" 289. " Soubise, Broiled 

" 290. " SuprSme, Broiled or Sauted 

" 391. " Fillets au Parmesan, Broiled 

" 293. " Crown 

" 293. " Leg with Mushroom Farci, Roasted 

" 394. Little Pig, Baked or Roasted 

" 395. Mutton Chops, Baked or Pried 

" 896. " Fillet Supreme, Roasted 

" 397. " Saddle, Baked or Roasted 

"398. " Leg,Stuffed 

" 399. Veal Cutlet, BroUed 

" 300. " Fillets with Cream or Brown Sauce, Sauted 

" SOL •' or Lamb Roll 

POOLTRY 

No. 303. Capon, Baked or Roasted 

391 



PBIOB 

80.16 
.15 
.17 
.15 
.15 
.42 
.12 
.20 
.06 
.15 
.10 



.10 
.06 
.10 



.06 
.10 
.15 
.20 
.20 
.20 
.10 
.65 
.90 
.55 
.15 



.73 

1.70 

.83 

.60 

.40 

1.75 

..55 

.45 

.55 

1.00 

.45 

1,20 

1.25 

3.00 

.50 

1.00 

1.45 

1.00 

.45 

.52 

1.00 



1.50 



INDEX 



No. 303. Chicken, with Chestnut Pviree, Baked or Roasted 

" 304. *' and Ham, Baked or Roasted 

" 305. " with Oy&ter Sauce, Baked or Roasted 

" 306. " Espaguole, Fricasseed 

" 3U7. " Fillets and Mushrooms, Fricasseed 

" 308. " " Fried or Saute'd 

' ' 309. " " Supreme " 

" 310. " " with Truffle Sauce, Sauted or Fried... 

" 311. Duck with Olive Sauce, Baked or Roasted 

" 313. " Fillets, Sauted 

" 313. Goose with Sauerkraut, Baked or Roasted 

" 314. Turkey with Truffle Sauce, Baked or Roasted 

ENTRIES OF VEOETABLES 

Methods 

No. 315. Batter 

" 316. Artichokes with Butter Sauce, Boiled 

" 317. " Fonds Fried 

" 318. Asparagus, Boiled 

" 319. " in Rolls 

' ' 330. Brussels Sprouts with Madeira Sauce 

" 331. Beets with Sour Sauce 

' ' 333. Cabbage au Gratin 

" 333. Carrots with White Sauce, or Glazed 

" 324. Cauliflower au Parmesan 

" 32.5. Celery, Fried or Stewed 

" 326. Chestnut Boulettes 

" 327. " Puree 

" 338. Cucumber Parci 

" 339. " Fried or Sauted 

"330. " Stewed 

" 331. " Timbales 

" 333. Egg-plant, Parol 

" 333. Green Corn, Creamed 

" 334. " Fritters 

' ' 33.5. Green Peas in Croustades 

" 336. " Pur6e or Timbales 

" 337. Green Peppers Broiled, with Beefsteak 

" 338. " Parci 

' * 339. Hominy Crescents 

" 340. Jerusalem Artichokes, Fried 

" 341. Mushrooms, Baked under Bells 

" 342. " " au Gratin 

" 343. " " ■ with Oysters 

"344. " Broiled 

" 345. " Creamed, for Coquille, Ramekin Dishes, 

Bouchees, Piites, or Vol au Vents 

"346. " Deviled 

"347. " Parci 

" 348. " Puff Balls 

"349. " Sauted 

"350. " and Chicken Timbales 

" 3.51. Onion Souffle or Timbales 

" 352. Oyster-plant, Fried 

" 353. Potatoes, Broiled, Fried, or Sauted 

"354. " Cream,Baked 

" 855. " Croquettes or Boulettes 

293 



PRICE 


PAGE 


«0 93 


113 


1.2U 


ii:; 


1.15 


lis 


.80 


113 


.70 


114 


1.05 


114 


1.35 


115 


1.00 


115 


1.10 


115 


1.00 


115 


1.00 


116 


1.90 


116 



.fi 


117 


.75 


118 


1.60 


118 


.30 


118 


.23 


118 


.53 


119 


.15 


119 


.15 


119 


.14 


119 


.30 


130 


.30 


130 


.15 


130 


.20 


130 


.53 


120 


.25 


131 


.24 


131 


.30 


131 


.55 


131 


.30 


128 


.15 


128 


.40 


133 


.42 


133 


.15 


138 


.35 


123 


.13 


133 


.18 


134 


.85 


134 


.80 


124 


.75 


124 


.75 


125 


.45 


125 


.75 


135 


.90 


125 


.,50 


136 


.45 


136 


.45 


126 


.30 


137 


.30 


127 


.10 


137 


.15 


127 


.15 


188 



117 
117 



INDEX 



No 


S56. 




857. 




358. 




859. 




360. 




361. 



Potatoes, Croquettea en Surprise. 
" Farci. 



364. 



ti 


366. 


tl 


367. 


it 


368. 


ti 


869. 


ii 


370. 


li 


371. 


ii 


372. 


<< 


373. 


ii 


374. 


it 


375. 


tt 


376. 


tt 


377. 


ti 


378. 


tl 


879. 


tt 


380. 


tl 


881. 


tt 


383. 


41 


383. 


It 


384. 


No. 385. 


tt 


386. 


Ii 


887. 


it 


388. 


tt 


389. 


it 


890. 


tl 


391. 



394. 
395. 
896. 
397. 
398. 
399. 
400. 
401. 
408. 



" au Gratin 

" with Hollandaise Sauce . ; . 

" Roses 

" Scalloped with Bggs 

" Sauted with Cieain Sauce. 
" Sliced and Baked Whole. . , 

" Strips.Baked , 

" Souffle or TimbaleB 

" Curled 

Bice Casserole 

" Croquettes, Savory 

" and Mushroom Croquettes 

" PUaff 

" Saut^ 

Timbale Cases 

Spanish Onion Farci 

Spinach Timbales or Croustades 

Spaghetti, with Tomato Sauce 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

" " Glazed 

Souffle, Pried 

Tomatoes, Baked 

" Broiled or Sautfed 

" Croquettes or Crescents . . 

" Deviled 

" Faroi 

Turnips, Glazed 



SHERBETS . 



Brandy and Sherry Sherbet., 

Cardinal Sherbet 

Champagne Sherbet 

Claret Sherbet 

Coffee Sherbet 

CrSme de Menthe 

" Yvette 

Fruit Sherbet 

Ginger Sherbet 

Grape Sherbet 

Lalla Bookh Sherbet 

Maraschino Cherry Sherbet . 

Mint Sherbet '.'.°. 

Orange Sherbet '.V 

Peach Sherbet ■ ■ ■ ■ 'i ^ 

Roman Sherbet 

Rose-leaf Sherbet :'. .' 

Siberian Sherbet .'.'.. 



OJ.ME 

Duces, Bboilxd. Method 

" BOASTBD. " 

No. 403. Canvas Backs, Broiled or Boasted. 
" 404. Bedheads, 
" 405. Buddy Ducks or Butter Balls..;... 

393 



PBICI 


PAOX 


•0.15 


128 


.28 


128 


.10 


128 


.12 


129 


.08 


129 


.15 


139 


.12 


129 


.10 


l.SO 


.10 


l.W 


.10 


l.SO 


.08 


130 


.12 


130 


.15 


181 


.25 


131 


.20 


131 


.08 


131 


.05 


132 


.15 


1S8 


.40 


188 


.12 


138 


.80 


138 


.14 


183 


.08 


138 


.15 


138 


.10 


134 


.12 


134 


.18 


134 


.83 


134 


.08 


135 




186 


.87 


137 


.42 


137 


.65 


137 


.85 


187 


.25 


187 


.30 


137 


.35 


137 


.50 


188 


.80 


138 


.80 


138 


.38 


138 


.35 


138 


.30 


138 


.18 


189 


.20 


139 


.80 


139 


.80 


189 


.33 


180 




140 




141 




141 


5.26 


141 


3.75 


141 


3.76 


141 



INDEX 



No. 406. Blue Bills, Broad Bills, and WhistlerB, Broiled or Boasted 

" 407. Teals, Broiled or Boasted 

" 408. Grousea. 

" " PartridgesS 

" " Prairie Chickens 3 

" " PheasantsS 

To Broil. Method 

To Devil. " 

To Saute. " 

To Boast. " 

No. 409. Hare or Babbit, Boasted 

" 410. " " " English Style, Boasted 

•' 411. " " " Sauted and Jugged 

" 412. " " " Fillets, Stewed 

" 413. Partridge, with Cream Sauce, Baked 

" 414. " Fillets Supreme, Baked or Sauted 

" 415. Pigeons with Mushrooms, Stewed 

" 416. Plover, Snipe, Squabs, or Woodcock, Broiled 

" 417. " " " " " Boasted 

" 418. Quails, Broiled 

"419. ■ " Boasted.. 

" 420. " Stewed 

" 431. " with TrufHes, Roasted 

"423. " Larded with Truffles, Saute'd 

" 433. Beed Birds, Roasted. 

" 434. " " in Sweet Potatoes, Roasted 

" 425. " " Sauted 

" 436. Squirrels, Stewed 

" 437. Venison, Chops or Steaks, Broiled 

" 438. " " " Sauted 

" 429. " Roasted 

" 430. Game Farci 

" 431. " Sauce 

From Cold Cooked Game 

No. 433. DuckSalmi 

" 433. Grouse Salmi 

SALADS 

Salad Dressings 

No. 434. Boiled Dressing 

" 435. Cream Boiled Dressing 

" 436. French Dressing 

' ' 437. Mayonnaise Dressing 

" 43S. " Cream Dressing 

" 439. " Jelly " 

" 440. Whipped Cream " 

" 441. Tarragon Vinegar for Salad Dressings 

" 443. Artichoke Salad 

" 443. Asparagus " 

" 444. AspioJelly " 

" 445. BeanSalad 

" 446. Beet " Farci 

" 447. Brunswick Salad 

" 448. Brussels Sprouts Salad 

394 



FKICE 


PASS 


»3.00 


141 


2.70 


142 


1.55 


143 


3.50 


142 


2.30 


142 


8.55 


143 




148 




143 




143 




143 


.75 


143 


.84 


143 


.80 


144 


.75 


144 


2.50 


144 


2.65 


145 


.90 


145 


1.25 


145 


1.30 


146 


1.75 


146 


1.85 


146 


2.00 


147 


2.25 


147 


8.25 


147 


1.65 


147 


.80 


148 


1.55 


148 


.70 


148 


.68 


148 


.65 


149 


1.55 


149 


.08 


149 


.18 


149 




150 


1.50 


150 


1.15 


150 



151 
153 



.10 


152 


.15 


152 


.13 


153 


.25 


152 


.30 


153 


.30 


163 


.15 


153 


.10 


153 


.&> 


154 


.30 


154 


.58 


154 


.15 


154 


.28 


154 


.36 


155 


.35 


155 



INDEX 



PBIOB FAQS 



Cabbage Salad 

Cauliflower Salad 

Celery Salad 

Cherry " 

Chestnut " 

Chicken " 

Chiffonade " 

Cucumber " Whole or Farci 

JellySalad 

Crab Salad 

Daisy " 

Egg " 

Italian Salad 

Lettuce, Endive BBcarola, or Water-cress. 

Liver Salad 

Lobster Salad 

Macedoine Salad 

Manhattan " 

Oyster " 

Onion " 

Potato " 

Bice " 

Sardine 

Salmon 

Scallop 

Shad-roe 

Shrimp 

Spinach 

String-bean 

Sweetbread 

Tomato 



No. 449. 
" 450. 
" 451. 
" 453. 
•' 453. 
" 454. 
" 455. 
" 456. 
" 457. 
" 458. 
" 459. 
" 460. 
" 461 
" 463. 
" 463. 
" 464. 
" 465. 
" 466. 
•' 467. 
" 468. 
" 469. 
" 470. 
" 471. 
" 473. 
" 473. 
" 474. 
" 475. 
" 476. 
" 477. 
" 478. 
" 479. 
" 480. 
" 481. 
" 483. 
" 488. 
" 484. 
" 485. 
" 486. 
" 487. 

FBtiiT Salads. Method 

No. 488. Apple Salad 

" 489. '^ Cele^, and English Walnut or Chestnut Salad. . 

" 490. " and Grape Fruit Salad 

" 491. Grape Fruit Salad 

" 493. Orange Salad 

" 493. Pineapple and Celery 



Moulds . 



Farci 

Moulds, Frozen . 
Jelly Salad. 



Vegetable Salad in Jelly 

" OysterSalad 

Violet Salad 

Waldorf Salad 

Water-cress and Apple Salad . 
Yellow Egg Tomato " . 



EGOS AND CHEESE. 

Eggs 

No. 494. Anchovy Eggs 

" 495. Eggs, with Asparagus Tips 

" 496. " Curried with Green Peas 

" Croquettes 

" au Gratin 

" inBolls 

" Scalloped with Cheese 

295 



497. 



499. 
600. 



90.15 


155 


.15 


155 


.35 


155 


.30 


156 


.38 


156 


.50 


156 


.15 


156 


.40 


156 


.20 


157 


.55 


157 


.20 


157 


.30 


1.58 


.25 


158 


.10 


158 


.20 


158 


.80 


158 


.15 


159 


.35 


159 


.55 


169 


.05 


160 


.10 


160 


.10 


160 


.25 


16U 


.25 


161 


.35 


161 


.25 


161 


.50 


161 


.25 


162 


.18 


163 


.90 


162 


.10 


162 


.15 


163 


.10 


163 


.35 


163 


.30 


163 


.90 


164 


.45 


164 


.15 


164 


.10 


164 




165 


.13 


165 


.20 


165 


.25 


165 


.35 


165 


.30 


166 


.30 


166 




167 




168 


.22 


168 


.33 


168 


.13 


168 


.23 


168 


.14 


169 


.25 


VSi 


.22 


169 



INDEX 



No. 501. 

" 508. 

Cheesb 

No. 503. 

" 504. 

" 505. 

" 506. 

" 507. 

" 508. 

" 509. 

" 610. 

" 511. 



Bggs OB Toaat . 
Omelettes 



Cheese 

Cream- 
Cheese 



Boulettes, Hot 

Creamed, Cold .... 
cheese Balls, Cold . 
Charlottes, Cold . . 
Croquettes, Hot . . 
in Croustades . . . ^ 

Deviled, Cold 

Scalloped, Hot . . . 
Souffle, Hot 



DESSERTS . 



Cold Dessebts . 

No. 513. 

" 513. 

" 514. 

" 515. 

" 516. 

" 517. 

" 518. 

" 519. 

" 530. 

" 531. 

" 532. 

" 523. 

" 524. 

" 525. 

" 526. 

" 537. 

" 538. 

" 529. 

" 530. 

" 581. 

" 533. 

" 588. 

" 534. 

" 535. 

" 536. 

" 537. 

" 538. 

" 539. 



Bavarian Cream 

Charlotte Busse 

Cabinet Pudding 

Caramel Custard 

Chestnuts with Coffee Sauce 

' ' Cream 

" with Wliipped Cream . . 

Cherry Tapioca 

Cocoanut Timbales 

Date Souffle 

Fruit Charlotte 

" Macedoine 

Jellies 

Prune Jelly 

Sago " 

Bussian Fruit Jelly 

Wine Jelly Macedoine 

" or Orange Jelly en Surprise . 

Lemon Cream 

Macaroon " 

Peach Tapioca 

Trifle 

Rice and Apple Pudding 

" Mould 

" Pudding, Frozen 

'' " Supreme 

Sherry Cream 

Strawberries en Suiprise 



Pastky. Method. 

No. 540. 

" 541. 

" .543. 

" .543. 

" 544. 

" 545. 

" 546. 

" 547. 

" 548. 

" 549. 

" 580. 



Plain Paste ; 

Puff " 

Apple Pie, with Whipped Cream . 

Crab-apple Pie 

Cream " 

Chocolate " 

CrSme St. Honore Pie 

Custard or Cocoanut Pie 

Marlboro Pie 

Mince " 

Pumpkin " 



PRICE 


PAOS 


«0.30 


169 


15-.50 


170 




171 


.15 


171 


.20 


171 


.15 


171 


.35 


171 


.16 


172 


.12 


173 


.17 


173 


.35 


173 


.17 


173 



174 
175 



.30-.50 


175 


.25-.40 


176 


.40 


176 


.10 


177 


.30 


177 


.24 


177 


.40 


177 


.18 


178 


.15 


178 


.18 


178 


.12 


178 


.70 


179 


15-.60 


179 


.23 


180 


.20 


180 


.18 


180 


.30 


180 


.35 


180 


.35 


181 


.85 


181 


.24 


181 


.23 


188 


.15 


182 


.33 


182 


.15 


183 


.36 


183 


.35 


183 


.40 


183 




183 


.15 


184 


.20 


184 


.20 


185 


.15 


185 


.16 


185 


.18 


186 


.36 


18H 


.12 


18B 


.15 


186 


1.30 


187 


.13 


187 



INDEX 



PBIOE rxet 



No. 551. RaiainPie 

" 553. Rhubarb or Huckleberry Meringue Pie. 

Tartlits or Vol ad Vbnts 

No. 553. Almond Macaroon Tartlets 

" Meringue " 

Currant Cream " 

Peach or Apricot " 

Pine Apple " 



(I 


554. 


•( 


555. 


14 


556. 


(( 


657. 


Hot De 


No 


558. 


11 


559. 


(t 


560. 


" 


561. 


11 


563. 


11 


563. 


It 


564. 


It 


565. 


It 


566. 


(1 


567. 


(( 


568. 


It 


569. 


11 


570. 


11 


571. 


i( 


573. 


11 


573. 


It 


574. 


11 


575. 


t( 


576. 


ii 


577. 


It 


578. 


11 


579. 


It 


580. 


(t 


581. 


" 


583. 


t( 


583. 


It 


584. 



Apple BaUe 

" Faroi, with Whipped Cream 

Bananas, Baked 

Beignet Souffles 

Bread and Almond Pudding 

" PruitCustard 

Bread Croquettes 

Cake " 

Cream " "' 

Bread Timbales 

Cake " 

Cocoanut " 

Chocolate and Almond Pudding, Steamed . 

" Sponge " 

Farina Puffs, Baked 

Fig Compote 

" Pudding, Steamed 

Fruit Snowballs, Steamed 

Graham Plum Pudding, Steamed 

Macaroon Souffle 

Marmalade Fritters 

Omelette Souffle 

Plum Pudding, Steamed , 

Kum Custard 

Sponge Pudding 

Short-cakes 

Suet Pudding 



PUDBINQ SATTCMS. 



Cols Sauces 

No. 585. Boiled Custard 

" 586. Caramel Sauce 

" 587. Claret Sauce 

" 688. BggSauce 

" 589. Frozen Sauce 

" 590. Hard Sauce, with Cream 

" 591. Jelly Sauce 

" 593. Orange Sauce 

■' 593. MapleSauce 

" 594. •pistachio or Maraschino Sauce. 

' ' 59.5. Rum or Brandy Sauce 

" 596. WhiteSauoe 

" 597. Whipped Cream Sauce 

Hot SAnoBS 

No. 598. Banana Sauce 

" 599. Chocolate " 



90.16 


187 


.18 


187 




188 


.30 


188 


.35 


188 


.15 


188 


.15 


188 


.30 


189 




189 


.10 


189 


.80 


189 


.15 


189 


.18 


190 


.15 


190 


.18 


190 


.13 


190 


.12 


191 


.15 


191 


.10 


191 


.13 


191 


.14 


191 


.38 


198 


.28 


193 


.15 


198 


.15 


193 


.28 


193 


.80 


193 


.80 


193 


.84 


194 


.13 


194 


,20-.35 


194 


.35 


195 


.15 


195 


.14 


195 


.80-.40 


195 


.18 


196 




197 




197 


.9 


197 


.03 


197 


.30 


197 


.13 


197 


.34 


198 


.15 


198 


.09 


198 


.13 


198 


.13 


198 


.16 


198 


.18 


199 


.08 


199 


.15 


199 




199 


.18 
.09 


199 
300 



297 



INDEX 



No. 600. Cream Brandy Sauce. , 

" 601. " Sherry " ., 

•• 603. Foam Sauce 

" 603. Fruit " 

" 604. Orange " 

" 605. Soft " 

" 606. Sherry " 

'• 607. Vanffla " 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES AND FRAPP:^S. 



Cbbams Stibred While Freezing . , 

French Ice Cream , 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Creams Frozen Without Stirring. , 



No 


608. 


il 


609. 


No 


610. 


44 


611. 


41 


613. 


11 


613. 


14 


614. 


ti 


615. 


44 
14 


%^: 


41 


618. 


It 


619. 


44 


630. 


44 


631. 


44 


633. 


44 


623. 


II 


624. 


14 


62,5. 


(4 


«26. 


«l 


627. 


14 


638. 


11 


639. 


(( 


630. 


II 


631. 


II 


632. 


11 


63.S. 


11 


6,34. 


14 


«i.5. 


41 


6,36. 


14 


637. 


44 


638. 



White Parfait 

YeUow " 

Mousse 

Biscuit Glao^ 

" " Diplomate , 

" Tortoni 

Brown-bread Ice Cream or Parfait 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream or Parfait , 

Caramel Ice Cream Parfait, or Mousse 

Chocolate Ice Cream, Parfait or Mousse 

Coffee Ice Cream, Parfait or Mousse 

Cherry and Almond Ice Cream, Parfait or Mousse. , 

Croquettes of Ice Cream 

Ginger Mousse 

Macaroon Ice Cream, Parfait or Mousse. , 

Maple Ice Cream or Parfait 

Maraschino Ice Cream, Parfait or Mousse 

Meringue Glacis 

Nesselrode Pudding, with Sauce 

Nougat Ice Cream or Parfait 

Orange " " or Mousse , 

Peach or Pineapple Parfait, Ice Cream or Mousse. . . 

Pistachio Ice Cream or Mousse 

Plum Pudding Glac^. 

Rose Mousse 

Strawberry Ice Cream or Mousse 

Vanilla " " with Hot Chocolate Sauce. .. 

Violet " " or Mousse 

White " " with Claret Sauce 



Ices. 

No. 689. Water Ice 

" 640. Pistachio Bombe Glace, with Claret Sauce. 
" 641. Red Currant Bombe Glace 



FBAPPis. Method , 

No. 642. Caik Frapp6 

" 643. Chocolate Frappe . 

" 644. Fruit Frappe 

" 645. Orange Frappd . . . 

" 646. Tea Frappe' 



PRIOS 

$0.17 
.18 
.10 
.13 
.18 
.15 
.09 
.13 



FASE 
200 

200 
200 
800 
201 
201 
201 
201 

202 

202 

.35 202 
.30 202 

203 



.,30 
.30 
.30 
.55 
.70 
.55 
.37 
.55 
.40 
.30 
.30 
.35 
.40 
.30 
.55 
.40 
.70 
.45 
.70 
.50 
.40 
.35 
.50 
.55 
.70 
.40 
.35 
.70 
.35 



15-.30 
.45 
.38 



.30 
.30 
.35 
.35 
.30 



203 
203 



203 
204 
204 
204 
204 
204 
205 
205 
205 
205 
205 
206 
206 
306 
307 
207 
207 
207 
207 
208 
308 
208 
208 
209 
209 

209 

209 
210 
210 

210 

210 
211 
211 
211 
3X1 



INDEX 



CAKES . 



Cake, in Loaves , 

No. 647. Angel Cake (1 loaf) 

" 648. Coffee Cake, with Fruit (3 loaves) 

" 649. Chocolate Maiehmallow Cake 

" 650. Delicate Cake (1 large loaf) 

" 651. Federal Fruit Cake (a loaves) 

" 653. Globe Molasses Cake (1 loaf) 

" 653. Plain Cake (1 large loaf) 

" 654. Pound Cake (3 loaves) 

" 655. Baisin Cake (3 loaves) 

" 656. Sponge Cake (1 large loaf or 1 small loaf) 

" 657. Sunshine Cake (1 loaf ) 

" 658. White Almond or Butter Cake (1 large loaf). 

" 659. " Fruit Cake (3 loaves) 



Cake, in Latebs 

No. 660. Cheap Cake 

" 661. Better " , 

" 668. Chocolate Cake 

" 663. Orange " 

Small Cakes 

No. 664. Cocoanut Thumbs, or Squares 

" 665. Cream Cakes en Surprise 

" 666. " Puffs and Eclairs 

" 667. Crullers 

" 668. Molasses Cakes 

" 669. Sugar Cookies, or Jumbles 

Ajternoon Tea Cakes 

No. 670. Almond Drops 

" 671. " Sand Cakes 

" 673. " Strips 

" 673. Babas 

" 674. Chocolate Chips 

" 675. " Drops 

" 676. Cinnamon Bars 

" 677. Flakes 

" 678. Graham Sand Cakes 

" 679. Lady Fingers 

" 680. Macaroons 

" 681. Peanut Cookies 

" 688. Pound Cakes, Love's Wells, or Madelaines. 

" 683. Puff-paste Dainties 

" 684. Bock Cakes 

" 685. Rolled Wafers 



Cake Fillings and Feostings. 

No. 686. Caramel Filling 

Chocolate " 

Coffee " 

Cocoanut " 

Cream " 

691. Date " 

693. Maple Syrup Filling . . . 

693. Marshmallow " — 

694. Nougat, or Nut " 



687. 



690. 



PRICE PAOB 




318 




318 


«0.S0 


813 


.45 


31 i» 


.30 


813 


.85 


813 


.35 


8L3 


.15 


813 


.33 


314 


.75 


314 


.60 


814 


.15 


314 


.18 


815 


.40 


315 


.80 


815 




316 


.13 


316 


.15 


316 


.18 


316 


.18 


317 




317 


.30 


317 


.40 


317 


.38 


318 


.30 


31S 


.13 


319 


.38 


319 




819 


.14 


319 


.62 


319 


.35 


330 


.35 


820 


.30 


880 


.18 


331 


.30 


331 


.08 


881 


.15 


321 


.16 


832 


.30 


322 


.30 


282 


.40 


883 


.84 


223 


.40 


323 


.15 


334 




234 


.18 


324 


.10 


824 


.10 


224 


.10 


285 


.10 


235 


.15 


885 


.13 


825 


.10 


825 


.16 


886 



299 



INDEX 



No. 695. Orange FiUJng 

" 696. Pineapple " 

" 697. Peach " 

Frostings 

No. 698. BoUed Frosting 

" 699. Confectioners' Sugar Frosting. 

' 700. Caramel Frosting 

' 701. Coffee " 

' 702. Chocolate " 

' 703. Fondant " 

' 704. Maple Sugar " 

' 705. Nut " 

' 706. Pineapple " 



COFFEE AND CORDIALS. 

After-dinner Coffee 

Cherry or Grape Cordial 

Orange Cordial 

Raspberry " 

Wines, and How to Sebvb Them 



No. 707. 
" 708. 
" 709. 
" 710. 



HOT BEVERAOES AND COLD DRINKS . 

Hot Beverages 

No. 711. Chocolate 

" 712. Coffee, Boiled 

" 713. Cider, Mulled 

"714. Sherry " 

" 715. ClaretPunch 

" 716. Russian Tea 



Cold Drinks 

No. 717. loed-tea Punch 

" 718. Champagne Punch 

" 719. " Fruit Punch. 

" 720. ClaretPunch 

" 781. " and Tea Punch... 

" 733. Currant Punch 

" 733. Fruit " 

" 7S4. Rum Punch, with Fruit . . 

" 785. White Wine Punch 

" 736. A Pew CocfctailB 



No. 737. 
728. 
729. 
730. 
731. 
738. 
7&3. 
734. 
785. 
736. 



SOME ACCESSORIES . 

Almonds, or Nute, Salted 

Bread Sticks 

Cheese Sticks, or Straws 

Crouton " 

Luncheon Rolls 

Parmesan Wafers 

Fop Com,' Salted 

Pulled Bread 

Scones 

Stuffed Olives 

300 



PRICE 


FAGS 


«0.10 


836 


.15 


826 


.15 


886 




337 


.06 


837 


.08 


837 


.18 


837 


.08 


837 


.10 


887 


.06 


288 


.15 


328 


.14 


838 


.18 


338 




829 


.13 


831 


1.86 


281 


1.30 


831 


1.85 


831 




838 




333 




833 


.84 


333 


.18 


233 


.13 


834 


.85 


834 


1.15 


234 


.10 


334 




335 


.35 


235 


3.30 


335 


3.60 


335 


1.67 


236 


1.80 


236 


.50 


236 


.75 


336 


1.95 


336 


3.95 


237 


86-.60 


337 



.80 
.06 
.08 
.05 
.10 
.05 
.10 
.10 
.18 
.80 



838 
838 
839 
339 
840 
340 
240 
240 
240 
240 
841 



INDEX 



SANDWICBE8 

BA.NDWICHKB FOR LUNCRBONS, AVTBBNOON FUXOTIONS, AN]) 

Etbniko Collations. Method 

Savory Samdwichbs 

No. 787. Anobovy Sandwiches 

" 738. BakedBean " 

" 739. Caviar " 

" 740. Celery " 

" 741. Cheese " 

" 742. Chicken and Celery Sandwiches 

" 748. Cucomber Sandwiches 

" 744. Egg Sandwiches 

" 745. Endive, Escarola, Lettuce, or Water-cress Sandwiches 

" 746. Ham or Toneue and Veal Sandwiches 

" 747. Lobster Sandwiches 

" 748. MookCrab " 

" 749. Nasturtium " 

" 750. Nut " 

"751. Oyster " 

" 752. P£t6 de Foie Gras Sandwiches 

" 753. Sardine Sandwiches 

" 754. Savory " 

"755. Shrimp " 

"756. Tartare " 

"757. Truffle " 

SwBET Sandwiches 

No. 758. Banana Sandwiches 

" 759. " and Bed Raspberry Sandwiches 

" 760. Cocoanut Sandwiches 

" 761. Date " 

" 762. JamorJeUy " 

" 763. Ginger and Orange Sandwiches 

" 764. Maraschino Cherry " 

Flavored Butters 

No. 765. Anchovy Butter 

" 766. Caviar " 

" 767. Cheese " 

" 768. Chili, Paprica, or Curry Butter 

" 769. Chutney Butter 

" 770. Flower or Fruit Butter 

" 771. Horseradish Butter 

" 772. Lobster Butter 

" 773. Olive " 

" 774. Parsley or Chive Butter 

" 775. Bavigote Butter 

" 776. Sardine " 

" 777. Savory " 

" 778. Tartare " 

"779. Water-cress" 

PIYE OCLOOK FUNCTIONS 

BVSNINO COLLATIONS 

801 



nUOE PASt 

242 



242 



$0.15 


242 


.06 


248 


.18 


248 


.]5 


243 


.12 


'MS 


.18 


244 


.10 


244 


.08 


244 


.12 


244 


.15 


244 


.25 


245 


.14 


246 


.15 


245 


•20 


245 


.20 


245 


.20 


246 


.20 


246 


.15 


246 


.25 


246 


.15 


246 


.25 


246 




247 


.10 


247 


.10 


247 


.15 


247 


.15 


247 


.08 


247 


.10 


248 


.20 


248 




24S 


.08 


24S 


.25 


248 


.08 


248 


.05 


249 


.08 


249 


.08 


249 


.09 


249 


.12 


249 


.10 


250 


.06 


350 


.09 


2.50 


.10 


a.'io 


.07 


2.50 


.06 


251 


.09 


251 



242 



252 



2S5 



INDEX 



CBAFING-DISH CREATIONS. 



Savort Dishes 



No. 780. 

" 781. 

" 782. 

" 783. 

" 784. 

" 785. 

" 786. 

" 787. 

■' 788. 

" 789. 

" 790. 

" 791. 

•' 793. 

" 793. 

" 794. 

" 795. 

" 796. 

" 797. 

" 798. 

" 799. 

" 800. 

" 801. 

" 802. 

" 803. 

" 804. 

" 805. 

" 806. 

" 807. 

•• 808. 

" 809. 

" 810. 

" 811. 

" 813. 

" 813. 

" 814. 

" 815. 

" 816. 

" 817. 

" 818. 

" 819. 

" 830. 

" 831. 

" 822. 

" 833. 

" 824. 

" 825. 

" 836. 

" 827. 

" 823. 

" 829. 

" 830. 

" 831. 

" 832. 

" 833. 

" 834. 



Almonds, Deviled 

Bacon and Mushrooms 

Beef, Deviled 

Beefsteak or Lamb Chops 

" Fillets or Mignon. (See No. 283).. 

with Tomato Sauce , 

Calf's Liver Terrapin, with Mushrooms , 

Caviar on Toast 

Cheese Fondue 

" Cream, with Truffles 

" Sandwiches, Saute'd 

" or Welsh Rarebit with Ale or Cream . 

" Rarebit, with Beans 

" " " Tomatoes 

Chicken, Creamed. (See No. 170) 

" Curry 

" Livers 

" a la Newburg 

" Terrapin 

Clams on Biscuit 

" Fricasseed 

Crabs a la Poulette or Newburg 

Curried Toast 

Duck or Turkey Salmi 

Dried Beef, Frizzled 

Eggs, with Anchovy 

" au Bechamel 

*' Creamed au Parmesan 

" Deviled 

" " with Anchovy 

" with Green Peppers 

" a la Newburg. 

" Poached in Cream 

" and Tomatoes 

" with Tomato or Parsley Sauce 

" " Truffles and pate de Foie Gras 

Ham and Cheese on Toast. 

' ' with Currant Sauce 

Kidneys, Deviled 

Lima Beans and Mushrooms .'. . . 

Lobster Cream 

" Deviled 

" k la Newburg 

" Terrapin 

Macaroni or Spaghetti Italian 

*' " Rarebit 

Mushrooms, Creamed 

Sauted 

" Stewed 

Mutton or Lamb Terrapin 

Oysters, Creamed. 

" with Celery or Parsley 

" a la Poulette 

" Rarebit 

" Sauted 



PRICE 


PA8H 




259 




361 


$0.18 


261 


.40 


261 


.13 


261 


.45 


261 




263 


.30 


263 


.53 


363 


.24 


262 


.30 


262 


.40 


263 


.08 


363 


.22 


363 


.15 


364 


.28 


364 




264 


.60 


364 


.30 


264 


.70 


265 


.55 


265 


.20 


265 


.26 


2a5 


.65 


266 


.16 


206 


.80 


266 


.26 


266 


.33 


266 


.18 


267 


.25 


267 


.22 


367 


.30 


267 


.20 


267 


.24 


268 


.20 


368 


.30 


268 


.12 


268 


.40 


3(i8 


.20 


269 


.28 


269 


.20 


269 


.35 


269 


.55 


270 


.60 


270 


.80 


370 


.52 


270 


.15 


370 


.28 


271 


.90 


271 


.82 


271 


.80 


271 


.40 


271 


.63 


372 


.56 


272 


.66 


273 


.38 


272 


.60 


373 



303 



INDEX 



PRICE PASE 



No. 835. Oyster Crabs ft la Newburg 

" 836. Potatoes Lyonnaise 

" 837. Partridges, Sauted 

" 838. Quails " 

" &39. Salt Codfish, Creamed 

" 840. Sardine Rarebit. 

" 841. Sauerkraut and Frankfurters 

" 842. SoaUops, Curried or Creamed 

" 843. " DevUed 

" 844. Shad Roe, with Sauce 

" 845. Shrimps, Deviled 

" 846. " with Tomato Sauce 

" 847. " Terrapin 

" 848. Smelts and Mushrooms 

" 849. Soft Shell Crabs Sauted 

" 850. Sweetbreads and Asparagus Tips 

■' 851. " Creamed. (See No. 190). 

"852. - " Fricasseed or Sauted 

"853. Terrapin, Stewed. (See No. 141) 

" 854. Tomato Curry 

" 855. Veal Curry 

" 856. ■ ' with Mushrooms 

" 857. " Terrapin 

" 858. Venison Steak, Sauted 

"859. " Stewed 

Sweet Dishes 

No. 860. Apples, Sauted 

" 861. Bananas " 

'■ 862. Fig Dainty 

" 863. GennanToast 



$1.10 


273 


.10 


OT3 


1.65 


273 


1.00 


274 


.15 


274 


.30 


274 


.15 


274 


.60 


274 


.55 


275 


.35 


275 


.60 


275 


.65 


275 


.65 


276 


.50 


276 


.85 


276 


.90 


276 




277 


.80 


277 




277 


.15 


277 


.38 


277 


.35 


278 


.35 


278 


.75 


278 


.72 


278 




278 


.12 


278 


.24 


279 


.30 


279 


.15 


279 




303 



